Represented by: Mr. Nikhil Goel, Spl. PP with
 Mr. Ashutosh Ghade, Mr.
 Annirudha Deshmukh, Advs. 1. Gist of prosecution case which led to the conviction of the appellants
initiated on the complaint dated 5th February, 2001 by M.E. Haque, Secretary
& Vigilance Officer (PW-24) is that officials of CWC deviated from the
normal procedure and issued cheques in the name of individuals which they
were not supposed to and failed to do pre-audit of bills. The complaint was
based on special audit which was conducted by an internal division of
Controller of Accounts on the basis of a pseudonymous complaint received
by the Controller of Accounts, Ministry of Water Resources alleging that CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 5 of 177 fraudulent payments have been made to officials by the accounts office,
DDO/CWC. One of the main irregularities was wrong drawl of pay and
allowances to the tune of `23,67,951/- during July, 1999 to March, 2000. 2. The alleged fraudulent transactions can be categorized into three
categories: As per the procedure, once a cheque issued in the name of an
 individual is cancelled, it could be validated/ made afresh in the
 name /category of the earlier beneficiary and not in the name/
 category of different person/category. However in the present
 case fresh cheques were made in the name of different persons
 and in some cases in the name of DDO for the purpose of
 wrongful withdrawal and misappropriation of government
 funds. ii) Transactions where cheques were issued on the basis of
 false and forged bills. - There are transactions where cheques
 have been issued against the bills (LTC, medical, etc.) claimed
 by Shiv Sagar Naik (A-7), Jeet Ram Sharma (A-9), B.M. Ghosh
 (A-10) and Hayat Singh (A-15) which are forged, fabricated
 and/or not showing the correct designation of the person
 claiming them and are not supported by sanction order. The
 concerned official i.e. Natha Ram Suman (A-16), Chandreshwar
 Manjhi (A-2) have passed these bills by intentionally ignoring
 the above and thus facilitating wrongful withdrawal of money. iii) Transactions where cheques were issued without any bill. - There are the transaction where the cheques have been
 fraudulently issued in the name of different officials and other
 private persons in the absence of any bill or authorization for
 the same. Consequentially, in order to prevent the fraud from
 being detected, there are no entries made in the relevant
 records." 3. Before dealing with theevidence on record and rival contentions raised
in the appeals separately it would be relevant to decide legal issues which are
common to most of the appeals. 4. CONSPIRACY
4.1. Learned counsels for the appellants challenging their conviction
 submit that they performed their duties as assigned to them in the
 ordinary course of nature. In case during the procedure followed one
 or two appellants over-stepped their duties or misappropriated the
 amount, all the appellants cannot be held liable for the offences they
 are convicted for with the aid of Section 120B IPC. The Court is
 required to see whether there is legal evidence to show that there was
 meeting of minds between the accused and the accused acted in
 furtherance of the common object of the conspiracy. Learned counsel
 for the CBI rebutting the contention submits that once the prosecution
 is able to establish prima facie facts which lead to an inference that
 the appellants acted with a common object then by virtue of Section
 10 of the Indian Evidence Act, the acts of one would be attributable to
 others who shared the common object. 4.2. Supreme Court in the decision reported as (1999) 5 SCC 253 State v. Nalini while discussing the concept of conspiracy observed in sub
 para 7 of para 583: 4.3. Apex Court in the decision reported as ( 2004) 11 SCC 585 Esher
 Singh v. State of A.P. , reiterating the principle laid down in (1980) 2
 SCC 665 V.C. Shukla v. State (Delhi Admn.) with respect to onus on
 the prosecution to prove the alleged conspiracy held: 4.4. Explaining the theory of agency as envisaged under Section 10 of the
 Indian Evidence Act, 1872 applicable to the law of conspiracy
 Supreme Court in the decision reported as (2001) 1 SCC 378 Saju v.
 State of Kerala, observed: with the result, anything said, done or written by a co-
 conspirator, after the conspiracy was formed, will be evidence
 against the other before he entered the field of conspiracy or
 after he left it. Another important limitation implicit in the
 language is indicated by the expressed scope of its relevancy.
 Anything so said, done or written is a relevant fact only "as
 against each of the persons believed to be so conspiring as well
 for the purpose of proving the existence of the conspiracy as for
 the purpose of showing that any such person was a party to it".
 It can only be used for the purpose of proving the existence of
 the conspiracy or that the other person was a party to it. It
 cannot be used in favour of the other party or for the purpose of
 showing that such a person was not a party to the conspiracy.
 In short, the section can be analysed as follows: (1) There shall
 be a prima facie evidence affording a reasonable ground for a CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 12 of 177 court to believe that two or more persons are members of a
 conspiracy; (2) if the said condition is fulfilled, anything said,
 done or written by any one of them in reference to their
 common intention will be evidence against the other; (3)
 anything said, done or written by him should have been said,
 done or written by him after the intention was formed by any
 one of them; (4) it would also be relevant for the said purpose
 against another who entered the conspiracy whether it was
 said, done or written before he entered the conspiracy or after
 he left it; (5) it can only be used against a co-conspirator and
 not in his favour.' " 4.5. Supreme Court in the decision reported as ( 2005) 12 SCC 631 K.R.
 Purushothaman v. State of Kerala drawing the distinction between
 suspicion and legal proof held that even in the case of conspiracy
 though inference is required to be drawn but the same should be
 based on circumstances giving rise to conclusion or irresistible
 inference. It was held: 4.6. From the decisions noted above, the following principles can be culled
 out to be applied while fastening the liability of an accused with the
 aid of Section 120B IPC: 5. LEGAL POSITION ON EVIDENCE OF BANK RECORDS
5.1. One of the contentions of the learned counsels for the appellants in the
 present appeals is the manner in which evidence has been led by the
 prosecution in respect of the bank accounts. In the present case only
 few witnesses of the bank have appeared and deposed about the bank
 opening form and the statement of accounts. Rest of the evidence has
 been exhibited by the hand-writing expert PW-51 who has proved the
 hand-writing of the various accused on the documents i.e. pay-in-
 slips/ cheques and the investigating officer PW-54 who has exhibited
 major portion of the documents relating to banks in the form of
 statement of accounts and pay-in-slips etc.
5.2. Learned counsel for the CBI referring to the decision of the Supreme
 Court in ( 2003) 8 SCC 752 R.V.E. Venkatachala Gounder Vs.
 Arulmigu Viswesaraswami & V.P. Temple & Anr. contends that an
 objection as to the admissibility of the evidence or mode of proof
 thereof can be taken when it is tendered and not subsequently. The
 documents having been tendered in evidence and no objection having
 been taken, now in the present appeals the appellants cannot turn
 around and contend that the documents have not been proved and thus CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 16 of 177 the same cannot be read in evidence against them. In the alternate
 referring to Section 4 of the Bankers' Book Evidence Act and Section
 34 of the Indian Evidence Act, learned counsel contends that certified
 copies of the entries in the Bankers' book are per se admissible in
 evidence and no formal proof of the same are required. Since
 certified copies of the documents relating to the bank accounts have
 been exhibited by the prosecution, the evidence led on this count is
 admissible in evidence. 5.3. Learned counsel for Jai Kumar Singhal rebutting the arguments of
 learned counsel for the CBI contends that Section 34 of the Indian
 Evidence Act does not relate to the proof of documents. It provides
 only for the relevancy of the books of accounts including those
 maintained in an electronic form and not the admissibility. The
 decision in R.V.E. Venkatachala Gounder (supra) relied upon by
 learned counsel for the CBI has no application to the facts of the
 present case because the said case dealt with proof of documents in
 civil matters. Mere non-objection to the mode of proof would not
 permit a document to be read in evidence if it is inadmissible. Relying upon the decision of the Supreme Court reported as ( 2009) 9
 SCC 221 Malay Kumar Gangulay Vs. Dr. Sukumar Mukherjee & Ors. it is contended that in a criminal trial a document becomes
 inadmissible in evidence unless the author thereof is examined, and
 the contents of the documents cannot be held to have been proved
 unless the author is examined and subjected to cross-examination in a
 Court of law. It is also contended that Section 2A of the Bankers'
 Book Evidence Act is para materia Section 65B of the Indian CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 17 of 177 Evidence Act and in view of the decision of the Supreme Court in
 ( 2014) 10 SCC 473 Anvar P.V. Vs. P.K. Basheer & Ors. a computer
 generated document would be admissible only when accompanied by
 a certificate otherwise the same would be inadmissible in law.
5.4. Learned counsel for the appellants Yesudanam, B.M. Ghosh, Shiv
 Sagar Naik, Hayat Singh and N.R. Suman relying upon the decision
 in ( 1967) 1 SCR 898 Chandradhar Goswami & Ors. Vs. The Gauhati
 Bank Ltd. contends that original entries alone would not be sufficient
 to charge any person with liabilities under Section 34 of the Indian
 Evidence Act. When the entries are not admitted, if the prosecution
 relies upon such entries it is the duty of the prosecution to produce
 evidence in support of the entries. Reliance is also placed on the
 decisions reported as AIR 1999 Kerala 279 Arakkan Narayanan Vs.
 M/s. Indian Handloom Traders & Ors. and AIR 1972 Gujarat 208
 Shubhkaran Rameshwarlal Agarwal vs. Durgaprasad Private Ltd..
5.5. Before adverting to the rival contentions it would be apt to note Section 34 of the Indian Evidence Act and the relevant provisions of Bankers' Book Evidence Act . Section 34 of the Indian Evidence Act
 reads as under: 5.6. A bare perusal of Section 34 of the Indian Evidence Act reveals that it
 does not provide for the admissibility or the mode of proof of the CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 18 of 177 statement of account but its relevancy. Further the mode to prove a
 relevant fact is governed by Part II Chapters III to VI of the Indian
 Evidence Act. 5.7. Sections 2(8) , 2A and Section 4 of the Bankers' Book Evidence Act,
 1891 (in short 'the Act') read as under: [(c) a printout of any entry in the books of a bank
 stored in a micro film, magnetic tape or in any other form
 of mechanical or electronic data retrieval mechanism
 obtained by a mechanical or other process which in itself CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 19 of 177 ensures the accuracy of such printout as a copy of such
 entry and such printout contains the certificate in
 accordance with the provisions of section 2A.]

 2A. Conditions in the printout.--A printout of entry or a copy
 of printout referred to in sub-section (8) of section 2 shall be
 accompanied by the following, namely: 4. Mode of proof of entries in bankers' books.--Subject to
 the provisions of this Act, a certified copy of any entry in a
 bankers' books shall in all legal proceedings be received as
 prima facie evidence of the existence of such entry, and shall
 be admitted as evidence of the matters, transactions and
 accounts therein recorded in every case where, and to the same
 extent as, the original entry itself is now by law admissible, but
 not further or otherwise." 5.8. As noted above, Section 4 of the Act which provides for a certified
 copy of the entry in the Bankers' books to be received as prima facie
 evidence of existence of such entry in all legal proceedings is subject
 to other provisions of the Act which include Section 2A. Section 2A of the Act, inter alia, provides that print-out of the entry or a copy of
 the print-out is required to be accompanied by a certificate to the
 affect that it is a print-out of such entry by the principal accountant or
 a Branch Manager and a certificate by in-charge of the computer
 system containing a brief description of the computer system and the
 particulars. Further Section 2(8)(c) of the Act also provides that the
 print-out of an entry in the book of an account should ensure the
 accuracy of such print-out and contain the certificate in accordance
 with provisions of Section 2A of the Act. Thus, a computer print-out
 of the entries in the book which does not contain certificate as
 provided under Section 2A of the Act would not be a certified copy
 within the meaning of Section 2(8) of the Act and would not be then
 admissible as the original entry itself under Section 4 of the Act. 5.9. Section 65B of the Indian Evidence Act which is para materia Section
 2A of the Act came up consideration before the Supreme Court in the
 decision Anvar P.V. (supra) wherein it was held that a computer
 generated document would be admissible only when accompanied by
 a certificate under Section 65B Indian Evidence Act and in the
 absence thereof it would be inadmissible. The three Judge Bench of
 the Supreme Court in Anvar P.V. (supra) over-ruling its earlier
 decision in ( 2005) 11 SCC 600 State (NCT of Delhi) Vs. Navjot
 Sandhu held: 5.10. This Court in the decision reported as 2015 SCC Online Del 13647
 Kundan Singh Vs. State held that the decision in Anvar P.V. (supra)
 did not hold that the said certificate cannot be produced in exercise of CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 23 of 177 powers of the Trial Court under Section 311 Cr.P.C. or at the
 appellate stage under Section 391 Cr.P.C. It was held that Evidence
 Act is a procedural law and in view of the pronouncement in Anvar
 P.V. (supra) partly overruling Navjot Sandhu (supra), the prosecution
 may be entitled to invoke the aforementioned provisions, when
 justified and required. 5.11. Legal position on the point is thus well settled that is if the document
 is otherwise inadmissible for want of a certificate or any other
 requirement of law, it being exhibited in the course of trial does not
 make the document admissible in law and though an objection as to
 the mode of proof can be waived off and should be taken at the first
 instance, however the objection as to the admissibility of a document
 which goes to the root of the matter can be taken at any stage.
 Supreme Court in the decision reported as R.V.E. Venkatachala
 Gounder (supra) held: 5.12. In Malay Kumar Ganguly (supra) relied upon by learned counsel for
 the appellants, Supreme Court while dealing with a claim under the CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 25 of 177 Consumer Protection Act, 1986 observed the nature of evidence
 required for the purposes of criminal proceedings and before the
 National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (NCDRC). It is
 in this context that the Supreme Court noted that in a criminal
 proceeding subject to the shifting of burden depending upon the
 Statute and/or the decisions of the Supreme Court, the right of an
 accused is protected in terms of Article 21 of the Constitution of India
 and that ordinarily if a party to a action does not object to a document
 being taken on record and the same is marked as an exhibit, he is
 estopped and precluded from questioning the admissibility thereof at
 a later stage. However the documents become inadmissible in
 evidence unless the author thereof is examined as the contents thereof
 cannot be held to be proved unless he is examined and subjected to
 cross-examination in a Court of law and a document which is
 otherwise inadmissible cannot be taken in evidence only because no
 objection to the admissibility thereof was taken. In respect of the
 proceedings before the NCDRC Supreme Court relying upon R.V.E.
 Venkatachala Gounder (supra) held that the documents thereof were
 admissible as no objection to the admissibility was taken and that
 provisions of Evidence Act were not applicable to the proceedings
 before the Commission and it is to merely comply with the principles
 of natural justice, save and except the ones laid down under Sub- Section 4 of Section 13 of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986. As
 noted above, Supreme Court in Malay Kumar Ganguly relied upon
 the decision in R.V.E. Venkatachala Gounder (supra). 5.13. After the arguments were heard in the appeals, Supreme Court
 rendered its decision reported as 2017 SCC Online SC 765 Sonu @
 Amar Vs. State of Haryana in respect of the mode of proof dealing
 with an offence wherein the appellants were guilty of abduction and
 murder. It was held that from the judgments of the Supreme Court in Anvar P.V. (supra), Navjot Sandhu (supra) and R.V.E. Venkatachala
 Gounder (supra) it is clear that an objection relating to the mode or
 method of proof has to be raised at the time of marking of the
 document as an exhibit and not later. It has been held: 34. The witness, who had deposed earlier, did not appear in
 the subsequent proceeding on the ground that he was unable to
 move from his house because of tuberculosis, as deposed by the
 process server. There was no medical evidence in this regard.
 The Court observed that the question of whether or not he was CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 28 of 177 incapable of giving evidence must be proved in this context, and
 in the proof of such a fact it was a condition that statements
 given in an earlier proceeding can be taken as proved in a
 subsequent proceeding. Chainchal Singh 's case therefore, does
 not lay down a general proposition that an accused cannot
 waive an objection of mode of proof in a criminal case. In the
 present case, there is a clear failure to object to the mode of
 proof of the CDRs and the case is therefore covered by the test
 in R.V.E Venkatachala Gounder. 35. We proceed to deal with the submission of Mr. Luthra
 that the ratio of the judgment of the Bombay High Court
 in Shaikh Farid's case is not applicable to the facts of this case.
 It was held in Shaikh Farid's case as under: 36. Section 294 of the Cr. P.C 1973 provides a procedure for
 filing documents in a Court by the prosecution or the accused.
 The documents have to be included in a list and the other side
 shall be given an opportunity to admit or deny the genuineness
 of each document. In case the genuineness is not disputed, such
 document shall be read in evidence without formal proof in
 accordance with the Evidence Act . The judgment in Shaikh
 Farid's case is not applicable to the facts of this case and so, is
 not relevant." 5.14. From the conjoint reading of the provisions of Evidence Act and as
 held in the various decisions of the Supreme Court noted above, it is
 evident that mode of proof of a document is distinct from standard of
 proof. The mode of proof of a document which is governed by Section 63 to 65 and 65B Indian Evidence Act in case of electronic
 evidence remains the same whether it is a civil or a criminal
 proceeding and can be waived off unless the document is per-se
 inadmissible in evidence as then the objection before the Appellate
 Court would be to the admissibility of the document and not to the
 mode of proof of the document. Having not objected to the mode of
 proof of an admissible document during the trial, the party is, whether
 in civil or criminal proceeding, is estopped from challenging the CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 31 of 177 mode of proof thereon. The concept of mode of proof of a document
 cannot be confused with standard of a proof which is proof beyond
 reasonable doubt in a criminal proceeding whereas by way of
 preponderance of probability in civil proceeding. The mode of proof
 required in proceedings before the NCDRC or any other quasi
 judicial authority or disciplinary proceedings cannot be equated with
 the mode of proof required in a civil proceeding and a criminal
 proceeding for the reason the latter two are covered by the Indian
 Evidence Act whereas the earlier proceedings are not covered by the
 strict rules of Evidence Act . Thus if a document is admissible in
 evidence and no objection to the mode of proof is taken thereof at the
 stage of tendering the same in trial, the party is estopped to challenge
 the same before the Appellate Court or thereafter, however if the
 document is per-se inadmissible then even if marked as an exhibit the
 same cannot be read in evidence. 5.15. The Supreme Court while noting the distinction between mode of
 proof and standard of proof observed in the decision reported as
 ( 1975) 4 SCC 769 Razik Ram v. Jaswant Singh Chouhan : 5.16. As noted above Section 34 of the Indian Evidence Act is in two parts
 while its first part provides for the relevancy of the entry as evidence,
 the second part is in the negative providing that such statement alone
 is not sufficient for charging a person with a liability, thus providing
 for its evidentiary value. Supreme Court in the decision reported as CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 33 of 177 ( 1998) 3 SCC 410 Central Bureau of Investigation Vs. V.C. Shukla dealing with Section 34 of Indian Evidence Act held: 5.17. Further Section 4 of the Banker's Book Evidence Act came up for
 consideration before the Supreme Court in ( 1967) 1 SCR 898
 Chandradhar Goswami & Ors. Vs. Gauhati Bank Limited and it was
 held: "6. ...... It will be clear that Section 4 gives a special
 privilege to banks and allows certified copies of their accounts
 to be produced by them and those certified copies become
 prima facie evidence of the existence of the original entries in
 the accounts and are admitted as evidence of matters,
 transactions and accounts therein, but such admission is only
 where, and to the same extent as, the original entry itself would
 be admissible by law and not further or otherwise. Original
 entries alone under Section 34 of the Evidence Act would not
 be sufficient to charge any person with liability and as such
 copies produced under Section 4 of the Bankers' Books CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 34 of 177 Evidence Act obviously cannot charge any person with
 liability. Therefore, where the entries are not admitted it is the
 duty of the bank if it relies on such entries to charge any
 person with liability, to produce evidence in support of the
 entries to show that the money was advanced as indicated
 therein and thereafter the entries would be of use as
 corroborative evidence. But no person can be charged with
 liability on the basis of mere entries whether the entries
 produced are the original entries or copies under Section 4 of
 the Banker's Books Evidence Act. " We need not subscribe to the extreme view expressed by the
 Supreme Court of Michigan, but there can be no doubt that this
 type of evidence, being opinion evidence is by its very nature,
 weak and infirm and cannot of itself from the basis for a
 conviction. We must, therefore, try to see whether, in the
 present case, there is, apart from the evidence of the
 handwriting expert B. Lal, any other evidence connecting the
 appellant with the offence."" 7.1. One of the contentions raised by learned counsel for the appellants is
 that they have been convicted solely on the basis of the explanation
 rendered by them in their statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C. which
 is impermissible. It is contended that the prosecution has to stand on
 its own legs and cannot use the answers to the question put to the
 accused in his statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C. to convict the
 accused. 7.2. Section 313 Cr.P.C. provides as under: 7.3. Supreme Court in the decision reported as (2013) 5 SCC 753
 Khairuddin Vs. State of W.B. explaining the evidentiary value of the
 statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C. of the accused held: The above shows that appellant Monglu Md. was present on
 the spot at the time of the occurrence according to his own
 admission. Not only that, he had according to his own
 statement, participated in the incident and even assaulted the
 deceased Dabaru, before fleeing from the spot. 15. That the statement of an accused made under Section 313 CrPC can be taken into consideration is not in dispute; not only
 because of what Section 313(4) of the Code provides but also
 because of the law laid down by this Court in several
 pronouncements. We may in this regard refer to the decision of
 this Court in Sanatan Naskar v. State of W.B. [(2010) 8 SCC
 249 : (2010) 3 SCC (Cri) 814] where this Court observed: (SCC
 pp. 258-59, paras 21-24)
 "21. The answers by an accused under Section 313 CrPC are of relevance for finding out the truth and
 examining the veracity of the case of the prosecution. ... 22. As already noticed, the object of recording the
 statement of the accused under Section 313 CrPC is to put CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 41 of 177 all incriminating evidence to the accused so as to provide
 him an opportunity to explain such incriminating
 circumstances appearing against him in the evidence of the
 prosecution. At the same time, also permit him to put
 forward his own version or reasons, if he so chooses, in
 relation to his involvement or otherwise in the crime. ...
 Once such a statement is recorded, the next question that
 has to be considered by the court is to what extent and
 consequences such statement can be used during the
 enquiry and the trial. Over the period of time, the courts
 have explained this concept and now it has attained, more
 or less, certainty in the field of criminal jurisprudence. 23. The statement of the accused can be used to test the
 veracity of the exculpatory nature of the admission, if any,
 made by the accused. It can be taken into consideration in
 any enquiry or trial but still it is not strictly evidence in the
 case. The provisions of Section 313(4) CrPC explicitly
 provide that the answers given by the accused may be taken
 into consideration in such enquiry or trial and put in
 evidence for or against the accused in any other enquiry
 into or trial for any other offence for which such answers
 may tend to show he has committed. In other words, the use
 is permissible as per the provisions of the Code but has its
 own limitations. The courts may rely on a portion of the
 statement of the accused and find him guilty in
 consideration of the other evidence against him led by the
 prosecution, however, such statements made under this
 section should not be considered in isolation but in
 conjunction with evidence adduced by the prosecution. 24. Another important caution that courts have declared
 in the pronouncements is that conviction of the accused
 cannot be based merely on the statement made under Section 313 CrPC as it cannot be regarded as a substantive
 piece of evidence." To the same effect is the decision of this Court in Ashok
 Kumar v. State of Haryana [(2010) 12 SCC 350 : (2011) 1
 SCC (Cri) 266] . 16. Reference may also be made to the decision of this Court
 in Brajendrasinghv. State of M.P. [(2012) 4 SCC 289 : (2012) 2
 SCC (Cri) 409] where this Court said: (SCC p. 297, para 15)
 "15. It is a settled principle of law that the statement of
 an accused under Section 313 CrPC can be used as
 evidence against the accused, insofar as it supports the case
 of the prosecution. Equally true is that the statement under Section 313 CrPC simpliciter normally cannot be made the
 basis for conviction of the accused. But where the statement
 of the accused under Section 313 CrPC is in line with the
 case of the prosecution, then certainly the heavy onus of
 proof on the prosecution is, to some extent, reduced." 17. Time now to examine whether Monglu's participation in
 the crime is proved by the prosecution evidence adduced at the
 trial. PW 4 Samsul has in his deposition specifically stated that
 Monglu was one of those who had assaulted deceased Darbaru.
 Similarly, PW 5 Monglu Md., an injured witness, has also
 implicated Appellant 16, and stated that "Darbaru was
 assaulted by Yusuf, Bhaka, Monglu and Jabbar. I also stated to
 the IO the fact regarding assault on Darbaru...". PW 6 Lal
 Khan is yet another injured witness who incriminates Appellant
 16 Monglu. He stated, "At first Jabbar, Yusuf Amin and Monglu
 assaulted Darbaru with a dagger, ballam, etc. who sustained
 multiple injuries on his person and succumbed to such
 injuries...". PW 17 Bholu Md. is also an injured witness who
 corroborated the version given by the other eyewitnesses and
 stated "Sabdul, Khairuddin, Ishahaque, Nasiruddin, Monglu
 and others assaulted Darbaru severely". 18. It is evident from the above that Appellant 16 Monglu's
 presence on the spot and participation in the commission of the
 offence is proved by the evidence led by the prosecution and
 supported by his own statement recorded under Section 313 CrPC. That is not, however, true about the remaining two
 appellants, namely, Hafijuddin and Motilal who were neither
 named in the FIR nor is there any cogent evidence to suggest
 their complicity or participation in the commission of the
 offence. In the circumstances, therefore, while the appeal filed CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 43 of 177 by Monglu shall have to be dismissed, that filed by Hafijuddin
 and Motilal shall have to be allowed giving to the said two
 appellants also the benefit of doubt." 7.4. The Supreme Court in ( 2014) 4 SCC 747 Ashok Debbarma Vs. State of
 Tripura clearly laid down that the conviction cannot be based only on
 the statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C. as the same is not
 substantiative evidence and it can only be taken as a piece of evidence
 to lend credence to the case of the prosecution. It was held: 25. This Court in Mohan Singh v. Prem Singh [(2002) 10
 SCC 236 : 2003 SCC (Cri) 1514] held that: (SCC p. 244, para 27)
 "27. The statement made in defence by the accused
 under Section 313 CrPC can certainly be taken aid of to
 lend credence to the evidence led by the prosecution, but
 only a part of such statement under Section 313 CrPC
 cannot be made the sole basis of his conviction." In this connection, reference may also be made to the
 judgments of this Court in Devender Kumar Singla v. Baldev
 Krishan Singla [(2005) 9 SCC 15 : 2005 SCC (Cri) 1185]
 and Bishnu Prasad Sinha v. State of Assam [(2007) 11 SCC 467
 : (2008) 1 SCC (Cri) 766] . The abovementioned decisions
 would indicate that the statement of the accused under Section
 313 CrPC for the admission of his guilt or confession as such
 cannot be made the sole basis for finding the accused guilty, the
 reason being he is not making the statement on oath, but all the
 same the confession or admission of guilt can be taken as a
 piece of evidence since the same lends credence to the evidence
 led by the prosecution." 7.5. The very purpose of recording statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C. is
 to put the incriminating circumstance against the accused to him and
 afford an opportunity to explain such incriminating circumstance. In
 case there is no incriminating circumstance against the accused, the CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 46 of 177 same cannot be put to him under Section 313 Cr.P.C. and an
 explanation sought. Where the prosecution has led no incriminating
 evidence against the accused, the Court is required to dispense with
 recording of the statement of the accused under Section 313 Cr.P.C.
 and acquit him. [See 1991 Crl.L.J. 3208 State Vs. Sheikh Kadher
 Sheik Budin]. 7.6. Under Section 30 of the Indian Evidence Act when two or more
 persons are jointly tried for the same offence confession made by one
 such person affecting the other, if proved, may be taken into
 consideration against such other person as well as the person who
 makes such confession. The phrase Court may take into consideration
 such confession has come up for consideration in various decisions
 and it has been held that in law the confession of a co-accused cannot
 be treated as a substantive evidence to convict, other than the maker of
 it on the evidentiary value of it alone. But if on the basis of the
 consideration of other evidence on record the Court is inclined to
 accept the other evidence, but not prepared to act on such evidence
 alone, the confession of a co-accused can be pressed into service to
 fortify its belief to act on it also. [See ( 2003) 10 SCC 586 Govt. of
 NCT of Delhi Vs. Jaspal Singh ]. Similar phraseology has been used in Section 313(4) Cr.P.C. and it is trite law that no conviction can be
 based simplicitor on the statement of the accused under Section 313 Cr.P.C. as the same is not given on oath, however if on consideration
 of the material placed by the prosecution and duly proved the Court
 looks for an assurance, the statement of the accused under Section 313 Cr.P.C. can be pressed into service. 7.7. Thus, when there are some incriminating circumstances against the
 accused, confession of a co-accused and similarly the explanation of
 the accused under Section 313 Cr.P.C. can be taken into consideration
 as an additional circumstance. 8. Crl.A. 323/2016 - Y.P. Sharma (A-1) v. CBI : The appellant had no dominion over the property hence he cannot be
 convicted for offences punishable under Sections 403 / 409 IPC.
 Learned Trial Court without returning any finding as to how offences
 punishable under Sections 403 / 409 IPC were made out, convicted the
 appellant for the said offences. There is no evidence on record to
 show that the appellant acted in conspiracy with the other co-convicts.
 Sanction granted under Section 197 Cr.P.C. is vitiated as the same
 does not mention the offences for which it is granted and merely
 states that the sanction is granted for any other offence punishable.
 Reliance is placed on the decisions reported as (1996) 1 SCC 478 R.
 Balakrishna Pillai Vs. State of Kerala & Anr. , ( 2009) 8 SCC 617
 State of M.P. Vs. Sheetla Sahai and 1991 Crl.L.J 462 Harekrushna
 Patnaik Vs. State of Orissa. Even if the conviction of the appellant is
 to be upheld, he has been awarded harsh sentence of imprisonment
 for seven years, thus, in the alternative he be released on the period
 already undergone. 8.4. As per the CBI there are 7 sets of allegations against the appellant as
 under: 8.5. Appellant has been convicted by the learned Trial Court for
 allegations No. (i), (ii) and (vi) and acquitted for allegations No. (iii), (iv), (v) and (viii). Learned counsel for the CBI prays that in addition
 to upholding the conviction for allegations No. (i), (ii) & (vi)
 Appellant is required to be convicted for allegations No.(v) and (vii)
 also though he does not press allegations No.(iii) and (iv). 8.6. Learned counsel for the CBI submits that appellant was posted as
 Professional Assistant in CWC during the relevant period and was a
 dealing hand who used to prepare the bills of the employees above the
 rank of Deputy Director. B.V. Jagdish (PW-50) the then LDC used to
 assist the appellant in the maintenance of Pay Bill Register (PBR) of
 the Deputy Directors. Besides relying on the testimony of B.V.
 Jagdish Kumar, learned counsel also relies on the evidence showing
 deposit of 8 CWC cheques in account No.42861 maintained at State
 Bank of India, R.K. Puram in the name of R.L. Kawale (A-5) since
 deceased and amount transferred to appellant in cash or by cheque in
 his account No.36903 State Bank of India, R.K. Puram. Learned
 counsel for the CBI also relies upon the statement of Ratan Lal (PW- 16) Senior Accountant CWC who proved four cheques issued in the
 name of R.L. Kawale and B.S. Yadav (PW-29) P&AO who proved
 the counterfoil of the cheque. Learned counsel for the CBI further
 contends that the appellant prepared six slips and initialed them for
 issuance of open cheque in favour of DDO-I in lieu of 21 account
 paying cheques in the name of different persons and collected/
 distributed the money to existing/ non-existing employees. Reliance
 is placed on the testimonies of Chander Shekhar (PW-47) S/o J.P.
 Sharma (A-6), Sunil Kumar (PW-42) running a chemist shop and
 Kamal Sharma (PW-40) nephew of J.P. Sharma (A-6). Learned
 counsel for the CBI further contends that the appellant in conspiracy
 with Om Prakash Narang (A-3) after depositing illegal cheques in the
 account of O.P. Narang transferred the amount of ₹20,000/- and
 ₹35,000/- respectively by two cheques to his account, as proved by CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 51 of 177 the evidence of Anil Kathuria (PW-4) Special Assistant, Allahabad
 Bank. In his statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C. the claim of the
 appellant was that these were private transactions without any further
 explanation. 8.7. Evidence in respect of Allegation (i): It is the case of prosecution that
 eight cheques of CWC amounting to ₹5,12,857/- were deposited in
 the account No. 42861 in the name of R.L. Kawale (A-5) (since
 deceased) by appellant maintained at State Bank of India, R.K.
 Puram. Out of the eight cheques so deposited in the account of R.L.
 Kawale, three were deposited by B.V. Jagdish Kumar (PW-50).
 Further amount of six cheques was transferred from the account of
 R.L. Kawale to that of appellant and was withdrawn in cash which
 fact has also been proved by B.V. Jagdish Kumar who was then
 posted as LDC in the Account Section III of CWC Delhi and deposed
 that while working with appellant he had seen him signing and
 writing. He identified D-277 as a cheque issued by R.L. Kawale in
 favour of appellant which was signed by appellant on the back side at
 point 'A'. B.V. Jagdish further deposed that he encashed the
 aforesaid cheque from the State Bank of India, R.K. Puram by signing
 at point 'B' on the back side of the cheque Ex.PW-50/A and handed-
 over the said amount to appellant. He further identified cheques as D-
 274 to D-279 issued by R.L. Kawale from his account No. 42861 in
 favour of appellant and identified the signatures of appellant on the
 back side of the cheques at point 'A' and exhibited the cheques as
 Ex.PW-50/D-1 to D-5. Ratan Lal (PW-16), Senior Accountant CWC
 proved entries of four of the eight cheques i.e. cheque Nos. 242361, CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 52 of 177 4275474, 276267 and 277093 for a sum of ₹67,445/-, ₹59,548/-,
 ₹56,194/- and ₹51,480/- being the CWC cheques issued in the name
 of R.L. Kawale. B.S. Yadav (PW-29) the then Pay & Accounts
 Officer proved the counterfoil of cheque No. 274501 for a sum of
 ₹60,000/- and that it was issued in the name of R.L. Kawale. B.V.
 Jagdish Kumar also proved counter issuance of certain cheques by
 R.L. Kawale in favour of Y.P. Sharma vide Ex.PW-50/D-1 to PW-
 50/D-5 and Ex.PW-50/A withdrawn by appellant. The signatures of
 appellant on the back side of the cheques proving that he withdrew
 the cheques have been proved by the hand-writing expert PW-51.
 Appellant was posted as Professional Assistant and used to prepare
 bills of officers above the rank of Deputy Director. Thus deposit of
 amount by four cheques in the account of R.L. Kawale has been
 proved by the oral testimony of Ratan Lal coupled with documentary
 evidence which amount was withdrawn by appellant as proved by the
 testimony of B.V. Jagdish Kumar. The explanation rendered under Section 313 Cr.P.C. that the same was a private transaction cannot be
 accepted. As per Section 16(4) of the All India Service Conduct
 Rules 1968, every member of the service is required to intimate the
 Government in respect of transactions exceeding ₹15,000/- within a
 month of completion of transaction, which onus has not been
 discharged by the appellant. Contention of learned counsel for the
 appellant that only oral evidence was led deserves to be rejected in
 view of documentary evidence noted. Thus, the learned Additional
 Sessions Judge committed no error in coming to the conclusion that CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 53 of 177 allegation (i) has been proved beyond reasonable doubt by the
 prosecution against appellant. 8.8. Evidence in respect of Allegation (ii): The second allegation against
 the appellant that a bank draft was prepared in the name of A.V.
 Reddy in the sum of ₹62,000/- but was not delivered to him, and that
 the appellant picked it up, got it converted into a Government cheque
 in the name of R.L. Kawale, deposited the same in the account of
 R.L. Kawale and thereafter withdrew the said amount stands proved
 by the testimony of B.S. Yadav (PW-29) the then Pay & Accounts
 Officer, CWC. B.S. Yadav deposed that he was conversant with the
 process of issuance of cheque in the P&AO office as well as issuance
 of fresh cheque after cancellation of the cheque already issued. He
 deposed that three categories of cheques were prepared i.e. a cheque
 issued in favour of private party/ individual, a cheque issued in favour
 of DDO for disbursement of pay and allowances of the staff and a
 cheque issued in favour of Department/ Government transaction. The
 entire transaction of the accounts is guided by Civil Accounts Manual
 issued by Controller General Accounts. He identified the notings
 mark 'XN' on the back side of the file noting 7/N vide which a
 demand draft No. 846597 dated 18th September, 1999 was issued in
 favour of A.V. Reddy received from CWC for cancellation and a
 fresh cheque was issued in favour of R.L.Kawale in lieu thereof. As
 per Page No. 67 of the file Ex.PW-23/A, a request was received by
 the DDO from the P&AO for issuance of the fresh cheque in the
 name of R.L. Kawale for ₹62,000/-. The said cheque was given to
 S.K. Aggarwal, Senior Accounts Officer (A-17) vide noting marked CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 54 of 177 as 'X-10'. He further deposed that as per register of demand draft
 Ex.PW-15/A at serial No. 536 vide cheque No. 242670 dated 17 th
 September, 1999 bank draft bearing No. 846597 dated 18th
 September, 1999 was got issued from the bank in favour of A.V.
 Reddy payable at Nagpur and according to this register the said draft
 was received by appellant and he identified his signatures at 'X-11'
 and copy of the said bank draft in file Ex.PW-23/A at page 66 as 'X-
 12' for identification. Thus, from the evidence of B.S. Yadav (PW- 29) the allegation that a bank draft in the name of A.V. Reddy for a
 sum of ₹62,000/- was got issued but not delivered to him and received
 by the appellant, later got cancelled and a cheque for the same amount
 prepared by S.K. Aggarwal (A-17) in the name of R.L. Kawale, and
 encashed stands proved beyond reasonable doubt. 8.9. Evidence in respect of Allegation (v): The fifth allegation against
 appellant is that he in conspiracy with O.P. Narang (A-3) got
 transferred two cheques into his account for a sum of ₹20,000/- and
 ₹35,000/-. This fact stands proved by the testimony of Anil Kathuria
 (PW-4), Special Assistant posted at Tilak Nagar Branch of Allahabad
 Bank who proved the bank statement of the account of O.P. Narang
 (A-3) vide Ex.PW-4/5 which is certified under Section 2A of the Act.
 Vide Ex.PW-4/4 and 4/5 a debit entry in favour of appellant for a sum
 of ₹35,000/- clearing on 30th July, 1999 stands proved. This witness
 has not been cross-examined by appellant. Thus, the fifth allegation
 to the extent of transfer of ₹35,000/- from the account of O.P. Narang
 (A-3) to the account of the appellant is proved beyond reasonable
 doubt. 8.10. Evidence in respect of Allegation (vi): The sixth allegation of the
 prosecution against the appellant is that six slips were prepared for
 issuance of open cheques in favour of DDO-I in lieu of 21 account
 payee cheques in the name of different persons. The amount of
 cheques were collected and distributed to various existing/ non-
 existing employees of CWC by making Acquittance Rolls. Despite
 the fact that it was not part of the duty of appellant to initiate
 cancellation and re-issuance process, however he performed the said
 function and signatures of appellant stand proved on the slips Ex.PW-
 26/L, Ex.PW-26/19, Ex.PW-26/N, Ex.PW-30/A-8, Ex.PW-30/A-12
 and Ex.PW-30/A-14 by the opinion and deposition of the handwriting
 expert PW-51. In response to question No.25 in his statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C. the response of appellant is of denial and that the
 DDO under whom he was functioning as Professional Assistant had
 given him the number of certain cheques and had asked him to enter
 the cheques in the paper slips for claiming the fresh cheques in the
 name of DDO-I. Thus the sixth allegation against Y.P. Sharma also
 stands proved beyond reasonable doubt. 8.11. As regards allegation No.(vii) though the prosecution has proved
 beyond reasonable doubt this allegation qua C.Manjhi (A-2), B.M.
 Ghosh (A-10) and Om Prakash (A-11) as noted in Paras 9.16, 15.3
 and 16.4 respectively, however the prosecution has led no evidence to
 prove the complicity of the appellant in these transactions. Hence the
 allegation No.(vii) is not proved against the appellant.
8.12. Though not argued by learned counsels for the parties however one
 more allegation proved against the appellant is in the respect of fake CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 56 of 177 bills of S.S. Naik (A-1) is that after money was deposited in the
 account of S.S. Naik, appellant withdrew ₹1,06,000/- from the
 account of Shiv Sagar Naik. 8.13. Learned counsel for CBI also relies on the deposition of Kamal
 Sharma PW-40 who deposed that his maternal uncle J.P. Sharma (A- 6) had borrowed a loan in the name of Kamal Kumar Sharma for
 purchasing a car for himself. For this J.P. Sharma gave him two
 demand drafts for ₹87,379/- and ₹67,445/- in the month of July and
 October, 1999 respectively. He deposited both the drafts in his
 account bearing No.16103 in Syndicate Bank, Raj Nagar, Ghaziabad,
 U.P. He withdrew the aforesaid amount so deposited and paid over
 the same to his maternal uncle J.P. Sharma. Though in his
 examination-in-chief Kamal Sharma did not state anything as to
 whom he handed-over the draft but in his cross-examination on behalf
 of J.P. Sharma he clarified that he handed-over the amount to his
 maternal uncle J.P. Sharma who was accompanied by appellant and
 that they had come in a new Maruti car. The evidence of Kamal
 Kumar Sharma establishes the conspiracy between J.P. Sharma and
 appellant in respect of the withdrawal of the amount through the
 demand draft got prepared in the name of Kamal Sharma.
8.14. Learned counsel for the appellant has also taken an objection that
 though sanction for prosecution for the offences punishable under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 has been taken under Section 19 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, however no sanction has been
 taken under Section 197 Cr.P.C. The sine qua non for requirement of
 sanction under Section 197 Cr.P.C. is that the public servant is CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 57 of 177 removable by the Government. No arguments have been addressed
 by learned counsel for the appellant to show that appellant is a public
 servant who is removable by the Government. 8.15. The complicity of the appellant with the other co-accused particularly
 Om Prakash Narang is also proved by the evidence of Sunil Kumar
 PW-42 who deposed that his brother runs a chemist shop. Om
 Prakash Narang used to visit their shops to purchase medicines and
 ask him about his bank accounts. He informed Om Prakash about his
 two bank accounts and exhibited the account opening form, specimen
 signature card and the statement of account vide Ex.PW-42/A to PW-
 42/C. He exhibited the specimen signature card and the account
 opening form of the bank account at State Bank of India, Vikas Puri
 as Ex.PW-8/3 and the statement of account as Ex.PW-42/D. Om
 Prakash Narang informed him that some cheques in the name of Sunil
 Kumar has been prepared in his office and he had to deposit those
 cheques in the account of Sunil Kumar to which he refused. After
 some time Om Prakash Narang along with the appellant came to his
 shop and stated that it was their departmental matter. On their
 assurance he agreed to deposit of the cheques and three cheques for a
 sum of ₹45,000/-, ₹62,000/- and ₹58,000/- were deposited in the
 account of Sunil Kumar and after some time Om Prakash came to his
 shop and demanded cash in lieu of the three cheques deposited which
 he paid. He also exhibited the pay-in-slips and the cheques vide
 Ex.PW-42/E collectively. 8.16. Though as discussed later while dealing with the appeals of C.Manjhi
 (A-2) and Om Prakash (A-11) one more allegation proved against the CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 58 of 177 appellant is in respect of the fraudulent withdrawal of a sum of
 ₹2,72,475/- sanctioned in favour of S.P. Garg (PW-32) based on a
 combined cheque for a sum of ₹4,25,875/- signed by the appellant,
 however since this allegation was not put to the parties and no
 arguments advanced by them on this count, this Court is refraining
 from considering this allegation against the appellant.
8.17. Contention of learned counsel for the appellant that since he had no
 dominion over the property, hence he could not be convicted for
 offences punishable under Section 403 / 409 IPC. From the discussion
 aforesaid it is evident that the appellant in conspiracy with other
 accused defalcated funds of the Government and misappropriated the
 same. Even if an accused holds dominion of a property for a short
 duration and misappropriates the same to his own use, ingredients of
 offene punishable under Section 403 / 409 IPC are attracted. Thus the
 contention of learned counsel on this count deserves to be rejected.
8.18. From the discussion aforesaid and the evidence led by the prosecution
 allegations No. (i), (ii), (v) and (vi) only stand proved against the
 appellant and thus his conviction from the offences punishable under Sections 13(1)(d) read with 13(2) PC Act and Sections 403, 120B
 read with 403/409 IPC is upheld. 9. Crl.A. 259/2016 - Chandreshwar Manjhi v. CBI (A-2) : including various allowances such as DA, HRA, CCA, conveyance
 allowance etc., as is evident from the pay bill register (D-557)
 exhibited as Ex.PW-54/Z-11. The two allegations against the
 appellant of defalcating Government funds by forwarding fake bills
 supported by fake documents without being recorded in the bill
 register and signing and sending undated slips with no dispatch
 number along with outdated and old cheques for issuance of cheques
 in favour of DDO-I are proved by the evidence of B.S. Yadav (PW- 29), R.C. Tully (PW-26), N.R. Meena (PW-30), B.V. Jagdish Kumar
 (PW-50) coupled with the report of the handwriting expert and the
 documents duly exhibited by the prosecution. 9.4. The two allegations against the appellant claimed to be proved by the
 prosecution and dealt by the Trial Court are: accused J.K. Singhal, A-4 (Cashier) in conspiracy with the
 appellant and Y.P. Sharma. (ii) Appellant has forwarded fake pay arrears bill of ₹54,202/-
 and ₹74,874/- in the name of Om Prakash and B.M. Ghosh,
 showing their designation as Deputy Directors falsely and
 projecting their high basic pay ₹15,100/- and ₹14,400/- of
 Jan.96. As per PBR Record the basic pay of Shri Om Prakash
 D/M Gr.I was ₹6900/- in Jan. 2004 and basic pay of Shri B.M.
 Ghosh, EAD was ₹9,700/- as on August 1998." 9.5. Before dealing with the respective contentions it would be appropriate
 to note the testimonies of A.S. Gautam (PW-25) and B.S. Yadav
 (PW-29) who deposed about the procedure for preparation and
 issuance of cheques in the department. 9.6. Mr. A.S. Gautam who was a Senior Accounts Officer in P&AO of
 CWC with effect from April 2001 to August 2002 in his examination-
 in-chief deposed about the procedure for issuance of cheque in
 respect of any bill as under: 9.7. B.S. Yadav proved the procedure of issuance of cheque in P& AO as
 well as issuance of fresh cheque after cancellation of cheque already
 issued in his deposition as under: 9.8. In respect of the first set of allegations prosecution examined R.C.
 Tully (PW-26) the then Personal Assistant at CWC who deposed that
 D-381 (Ex.PW-26/L) was a slip without any dispatch number
 containing a note for re-validation of certain cheques particulars
 whereof have been mentioned in the document which was duly signed
 by the appellant at point A and no other officer had endorsed the
 same. On the strength of slip D-381 S.K. Aggarwal (A-17) issued a
 fresh cheque No.018289 Ex.PW-26/O for a sum of ₹42,202/- in the
 name of DDO-I against seven cancelled cheques in the name of
 different persons. As per the requirement of Rule 2.1.1 of Civil
 Accounts Manual (CAM), the note for re-validation was required to
 be endorsed which was not endorsed to anyone and it was also a pre-
 requisite in terms of the P&AO being told as to in whose favour the CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 64 of 177 re-issued cheque is to be issued. D-381 besides not noting these
 relevant facts also did not note any dispatch number/ diary number
 from the concerned DDO. Further from the testimony of R.C. Tully it
 has been proved that separate Acquittance register was made for these
 7 cheques and they were re-issued as one consolidated cheque in the
 name of the appellant. N.R. Meena (PW-30) also identified D-381
 the requisition slip from the appellant identifying his signatures at
 point 'A' on the said document. N.R. Meena also identified the
 signature of S.K. Aggarwal (A-17) on the fresh cheque issued in
 favour of the appellant and also identified the signatures of S.K.
 Aggarwal (A-17) on the 7 cancelled cheques. Further from the
 deposition of R.C. Tully, B.S. Yadav and N.R. Meena it is evident
 that the cheque re-issued was without any entry in dispatch register in
 the name of the appellant and money was withdrawn by J.K. Singhal
 (A-4). The Acquittance register prepared for this amount was proved
 by R.C. Tully. The re-issued cheque bears the stamps paid off and
 received payment. The money so received was mentioned on a
 separate page of cash disbursement book Ex.PW-26/P(E) (D-516).
 The prosecution having proved the entire chain of transaction from
 cancellation of 7 cheques issued in the name of different persons to
 issuance of one cheque in the name of the appellant thereafter cash
 having been withdrawn, from the evidence of PW-26, PW-29, PW-30
 and the hand-writing of the appellant having been proved by the
 opinion of hand-writing expert PW-51 also vide Ex.PW-51/B-1 & B-
 3, onus shifts to the appellant under Section 106 of the Evidence Act
 to show as to whose credit money has gone. Even though it was not CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 65 of 177 the duty of the appellant to prepare Acquittance Roll but that of J.K.
 Singhal (A-4), however in this particular case the Acquittance Roll
 has been prepared by the appellant as deposed to by the witnesses. In
 response to the circumstances put under Section 313 Cr.P.C. the reply
 of the appellant is, "it is incorrect". Thus, the appellant failed to
 discharge the onus to prove the facts especially within his knowledge.
 Even if the prosecution has not been able to prove as to who withdrew
 the bearer cheque in the name of the appellant, however the facts
 proved by the prosecution as noted above proves beyond reasonable
 doubt the complicity of the appellant in the offences alleged.
9.9. D-177 exhibited as Ex.PW-26/M was sent by the appellant without
 any dispatch number on the basis of which a fresh cheque No. 039426
 Ex.PW-30/A was issued by S.K. Aggarwal (A-17) for a sum of
 ₹15,609/- in the name of the appellant against 1 cancelled cheque No.
 278285 i.e. Ex.PW-30/A-7 for a sum of ₹15,609/-. N.R. Meena
 identified signatures and notes in the hand-writing of the appellant.
 The said cheque was again withdrawn in cash. Further R.C. Tully
 proved the requisition slip (Ex.PW-26/M) which contained the note
 for re-validation of the cheque issued earlier, not endorsed to anyone.
 Again in his statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C. no explanation was
 offered by the appellant when the circumstances were put to him.
9.10. On the basis of a requisition slip Ex.PW-26/N again without any
 dispatch number prepared by the appellant, S.K. Aggarwal (A-17)
 issued a fresh cheque No.018424 for a sum of ₹34,449/- vide Ex.PW-
 30/B in the name of the appellant in lieu of four cancelled cheques
 Ex.PW-30/A-4 to A-7 in the name of A.S.P. Sinha. The said fresh CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 66 of 177 cheque Ex.PW-30/B was encashed by the appellant through J.K.
 Singhal (A-4). The signatures of the appellant on the requisition slip
 No.4 have been duly identified by N.R. Meena. An Acquittance Roll
 was prepared in the name of R.P. Gupta, Chander Shekhar and
 Narender Kumar for ₹12,450/-, ₹11,340/- and ₹10,659/- totalling to
 ₹34,449/- as proved by R.C. Tully vide Ex.PW-26/F. R.C. Tully also
 identified the signatures of the appellant on Ex.PW-26/F and that the
 same was also signed by J.K. Singhal and the appellant released the
 said sum in three portions to three persons as noted above. Evidence
 of R.C. Tully and N.R. Meena is further corroborated by evidence of
 B.S. Yadav who deposed that vide note No.11N Ex.PW-23/A[19]
 four cheques were received for cancellation with the request to issue
 fresh cheque in favour of the appellant and he had issued a fresh
 cheque bearing No.018424 for ₹34,449/- in favour of the appellant.
 Chander Shekhar was examined as PW-47 who deposed that he was
 the son of accused J.P. Sharma and was selling food items on rehri.
 He deposed that J.P. Sharma was his father and employee in CWC.
 J.P. Sharma gave him 7-8 cheques to deposit in his own account. On
 the directions of his father he opened an account in Canara Bank,
 Shastri Nagar Branch, New Delhi. He exhibited the account opening
 form as Ex.PW-41/E the specimen signatures on cards as Ex.PW-41/F
 and the statement of account as Ex.PW-41/B. He deposed that four
 pay-in-slips for depositing the aforesaid cheques were filled up by his
 father which were Ex.PW-41/1 to 4 but he did not know in whose
 hand-writing the remaining pay-in-slips were filed. Even in response CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 67 of 177 to question No.9 on this aspect in his statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C. the explanation of the appellant is, "it is incorrect".
9.11. N.R. Meena proved that Ex.PW-30/A8 was a slip again without any
 dispatch number sent by the appellant on the basis of which S.K.
 Aggarwal (A-17) issued a fresh cheque No.018298 for a sum of
 ₹50,110/- vide Ex.PW-51/7 in lieu of one cancelled cheque bearing
 No.242509 dated 8th September, 1999 for a sum of ₹50,110/- Ex.PW-
 30/A-10 in the name of NWDA. The fresh cheque was encashed by
 the appellant through J.K. Singhal (A-4). The Acquittance Roll
 prepared in this regard has been proved by R.C. Tully vide Ex.PW-
 26/P2 in the name of V.S. Khatri for a sum of ₹50,110/- wherein
 signatures of the appellant have been identified vide Ex.PW-26/3.
 The Acquittance Roll was prepared by J.K. Singhal (A-4) and
 released by the appellant vide Ex.PW-26/B. Further N.R. Meena
 exhibited the requisition slip No.5 vide Ex.PW-30/A8 identifying
 signatures of the appellant thereon wherein one cheque for ₹50,110/-
 was cancelled and a fresh cheque bearing No.018298 Ex.PW-30/A9
 for a sum of ₹50,110/- was prepared in favour of the appellant and
 withdrawn in cash. The cheque was issued by S.K. Aggarwal (A-17)
 and encashed by the appellant through J.K. Singhal (A-4) whose
 signatures have been proved by the hand-writing expert PW-51.
9.12. N.R. Meena also proved the requisition slip Ex.PW-30/A-11 which
 was again sent by the appellant without any dispatch number on the
 basis of which six cancelled cheques were issued as a fresh cheque
 No.018530 for a sum of ₹50,570/- in the name of different
 individuals. The fresh cheque was prepared by S.K. Aggarwal (A-17) CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 68 of 177 and encashed by the appellant through J.K. Singhal (A-4) whose
 hand-writing have been proved by the hand-writing expert PW-51 on
 the questioned documents. The evidence of N.R. Meena is further
 supported by deposition of B.V. Jagdish Kumar (PW-50) who proved
 that Ex.PW-30/A-11 was prepared by Y.P. Sharma on the request of
 the appellant to issue a fresh cheque in his name amounting to
 ₹50,570/-. The six cancelled cheques were in the name of H.C.
 Chaudhary, V.S.Rao, M. Ram, M.S. Baig (two cheques) and A.K.
 Bhatia. Further R.C. Tully proved that Acquittance Roll Ex.PW-26/P
 regarding disbursement of cash was in the name of V.S. Rao, Chander
 Shekhar, Narender Kumar and Om Prakash totalling to sum of
 ₹50,570/-. He identified the signatures of the appellant at point 'A'
 on Ex.PW-26/E and that the Acquittance Roll Ex.PW-26/P was
 prepared by J.K. Singhal and money released by the appellant to the
 aforesaid four persons vide Ex.PW-26/E. As noted above Chander
 Shekhar appeared as PW-47 who deposed that he was son of J.P.
 Sharma (A-6) and was running a rehri of fruits and that his father
 gave him 7 cheques to deposit which he deposited in his account.
 The evidence of these three witnesses i.e. R.C. Tully, N.R. Meena &
 B.V. Jagdish Kumar is further supported by evidence of B.S. Yadav
 who proved Ex.PW-23/A[19] noting that six cheques had been
 received for cancellation and a fresh cheque issued in favour of the
 appellant. He also identified that the fresh cheque was given to S.K.
 Aggarwal vide noting X-8. In response to questions No.5, 10 and 37
 on this circumstance, the explanation of the appellant is, "it is
 incorrect". 9.13. N.R. Meena further proved that a requisition slip Ex.PW-30/A-15 was
 prepared by the appellant without any dispatch number and a fresh
 cheque was issued by S.K.Aggarwal (A-17) being No.018394 for a
 sum of ₹31,131/- in lieu of two cancelled cheques in the name of S.N.
 Chaudhary and H.S. Chaudhary. R.C. Tully proved the Acquittance
 Roll Ex.PW-26/P4 prepared by J.K. Singhal (A-4) and released by the
 appellant to two different persons namely Chander Shekhar and
 Naresh Kumar. As noted above Chander Shekhear is son of J.P.
 Sharma and not an employee of CWC. Again no explanation has
 been given by the appellant in response to the questions put on these
 circumstances under Section 313 Cr.P.C. 9.14. Further from the deposition of R.C. Tully (PW-26) the prosecution
 has also proved that Acquittance Roll Ex.PW-26/P3 was prepared for
 disbursement of ₹25,126/- to one Rakesh Kumar Gupta. The
 Acquittance Roll was filled and signed for withdrawal by the
 appellant despite the fact it was not the job of the appellant to deal
 with disbursement of amount and was the role of J.K. Singhal (A-4).
9.15. Thus, from the evidence adduced as noted above, the prosecution has
 been able to prove that bye-passing the procedure required to be
 adopted as per CAM, cheques issued already were cancelled and fresh
 cheques issued in the name of the appellant and disbursement of
 payment against the fresh cheque was shown to different persons by
 J.K. Singhal (A-4) the cashier in conspiracy with the appellant and
 S.K. Aggarwal (A-17). 9.16. In respect of the second allegation against the appellant is that he
 forwarded pay arrear bills of ₹54,202/- and ₹74,874/- in the name of CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 70 of 177 Om Prakash (A-11) and B.M. Ghosh (A-10) showing their
 designation as Deputy Directors falsely and projecting their basic pay
 higher than they received as ₹15,100/- and ₹14,400/- on January 19,
 1996 respectively, prosecution examined PW-25 A.S. Gautam. As
 per the prosecution bill dated 19th February, 1992 being Bill No. P-
 1251/III being D-559 Ex.PW-51/11-14 was submitted and seized
 from S.K. Jindia the then AAO, P&AO, CWC, R.K. Puram vide
 seizure memo Ex.PW-54/J/11. Though cited as witness, S.K. Jindia
 could not be examined as he has shifted to London. The signatures of
 the appellant on the said bill D-559 have been proved by the opinion
 of the handwriting expert Ex.PW-51. As would be noted while
 dealing with Crl.A. 241/2016 of B.M. Ghosh (A-10) and Crl.A.
 134/2016 Om Prakash (A-11) the prosecution has proved that they
 were not the Deputy Directors and thus the appellant falsely
 projecting their high basic pay than their entitlement facilitated them
 in getting fake bills cleared. Thus this allegation is proved beyond
 reasonable doubt against the appellant. 9.17. Further though not dealt by the learned Trial Court from the evidence
 on record the prosecution has proved the allegation against the
 appellant in respect of cancellation of draft issued in the name of A.V.
 Reddy and re-issuance of the same in the name of R.L. Kawale
 (deceased A-5). In this regard prosecution has recorded the evidence
 of B.V. Jagdish Kumar then immediate junior of Y.P. Sharma who
 deposed that he used to make entries in the pay bill register given to
 him by Y.P. Sharma and used to deposit the accounts payee
 Government cheques issued by P&AO. He deposed that three CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 71 of 177 cheques were deposited in the account of R.L. Kawale (deceased A-5)
 by him including a cheque for a sum of ₹62,000/- exhibited as
 Ex.PW-50/B-1. He also deposed that six hand-written paper slips
 pertaining to issue of open cheque in favour of the appellant were
 prepared. He identified the signatures of the appellant on the slips
 Ex.PW-26/L, PW-26/19, PW-26/N, PW-30/A-8, PW-30/A-11 &
 Ex.PW-30/A-14. He also identified the signatures of Y.P. Sharma
 (A-1) on the said slips. Further B.S. Yadav proved the files Ex.PW-
 23/A seized vide seizure memo also exhibited as Ex.PW-23/A. Page
 67 of the file was a requisition by the appellant for cancellation of a
 draft issued in name of one A.V. Reddy and re-issuance of the same
 in the name of R.L. Kawale. The amount was received by Y.P.
 Sharma (A-1), whose explanation in respect of the amount received is
 that it was a private transaction between him and R.L. Kawale. In
 any case, the complicity of the appellant is proved by the evidence of
 B.V. Jagdish Kumar who identified the hand-written slips pursuant
 whereto cheques issued were prepared in favour of the appellant.
9.18. Prosecution has also sought to prove tampering with the Acquittance
 Roll. In this respect evidence of S.P. Garg (PW-32) is relevant who
 deposed that he had applied for GPF withdrawal of ₹3 lakhs on
 account of the marriage of his niece. ₹2,72,475/- was sanctioned in
 his favour on 22nd November, 2000 which fact was informed to him
 on 14th December, 2000, however the amount had already been
 withdrawn on 1st December, 2000. Since he did not receive any
 amount on account of sanction he did not know who had embezzled
 the money. He stated that he came to know about this fact when he CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 72 of 177 applied for cancellation of the withdrawal since the engagement of his
 niece was cancelled due to some problem. He deposed that on the
 Acquittance Roll Ex.PW-32/A signatures at point 'A' across the
 revenue stamp were not his and had been forged by someone. S.P.
 Garg further deposed that he met the senior officers and made a
 representation. Since the senior officers did not take any action he
 filed a writ petition before the High Court wherein the authority was
 directed to credit the amount back to his GPF. Evidence of P.K.
 Rooprai (PW-36) further shows that a combined cheque was prepared
 in the name of the appellant for a sum of ₹4,25,875/- which included
 amount to be disbursed to S.P. Garg and though the disbursement was
 in the name of S.P. Garg but the same was signed by Y.P.Sharma.
9.19. B.S. Yadav (PW-29) further deposed that 10 cheques Ex.P-1 to P-10
 were forwarded for cancellation for a total sum of ₹87,379/- for
 which one cheque was required to be issued. From the counterfoil of
 the cheque book bearing serial No.241001 to 241100 (D-360) Ex.PW-
 29/A he proved that a fresh cheque bearing No.241009 for a sum of
 ₹87,379/- was issued in lieu of 10 cancelled cheques in favour of
 State Bank of India, R.K. Puram Branch vide Ex.P-11. As per the
 demand draft register Ex.PW-15/A vide entry at serial No.341 on
 page No.35 the said cheque No.241009 for ₹87,379/- was issued in
 the name of Kamal Sharma and as per record S.K. Aggarwal (A-17)
 received a demand draft on 16th July, 1999 by putting the signature.
 Though it is the claim of CBI that the said 10 cheques were sent for
 cancellation by the appellant, however PW-29 has not deposed about CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 73 of 177 the same and thus this circumstance does not prove the complicity in
 respect of the 10 cheques cancelled against the appellant.
9.20. A.S. Gautam (PW-25) who was posted and functioning as Senior
 Accounts Officer in the Pay and Accounts office of CWC with effect
 from April 2001 to August 2002 deposed that as a Senior Accounts
 Officer his duties in general were to process the bills submitted by the
 DDO by checking the same with the various accounts manuals and
 passing the same if found in order. His attention was drawn to the
 documents D-487 and D-488 which were two LTC bills in favour of
 Shiv Sagar and his family for a sum of ₹72,000/- and ₹54,000/-
 respectively. Further D-490 and D-490/2 were other LTC & TTA
 bills dated 17th May, 1999 and 1st December, 1999 for ₹15,000/- and
 ₹65,000/- respectively in favour of Hayat Singh and H. Singh and the
 family members along with the sanction order dated 29th November,
 1999. He identified the documents and the signatures and stated that
 they were prepared in the ordinary course of business. His attention
 was further drawn to the document D-492, bill dated 30th November,
 1999 for ₹57,000/- as transfer TA and ₹12,600/- paid as advance in
 favour of L. Ram along with the sanction order dated 26th November,
 1999 in favour of L. Ram and his family members. As per the
 Government LTC Rules a Government employee is entitled to get one
 LTC in one block of four years and as noted within one year two LTC
 bills were passed in favour of one officer for the same destination.
 Documents D-487, D-488, D-490, D-490/2, D-489, D-492 were duly
 examined by the handwriting expert PW-51 and it was opined that the
 signatures on the bills belonged to the appellant. 9.21. Further B.S. Yadav PW-39 identified the cash books exhibited by him
 as Ex.PW-39/B and R.C. Tully (PW-26) identified the cash books
 exhibited by him as Ex.PW-26/H. B.S. Yadav also identified the
 challans vide Ex.PW-39/A-1 to A-27 bearing the signatures of the
 appellant whom he had seen writing and signing. 9.22. Prosecution also examined R.C. Tully (PW-26) who deposed about
 the medical bill No. M-1393/I in the name of J.R. Sharma running
 into four pages back to back vide D-562 which neither contained a
 sanction nor the designation of the person in whose favour it was
 cleared was mentioned. R.C. Tully further identified that against the
 claim of ₹1,25,785/- a bill for ₹80,325/- was prepared duly signed by
 the appellant whose signatures he identified at point 'A' on the bill
 format Ex.PW-26/A. Thus complicity of the appellant in preparing
 the false claim bill in the name of Smt. Bhagwati, mother of J.R.
 Sharma also stands proved beyond reasonable doubt.
9.23. From the evidence as noted above the prosecution has been able to
 prove beyond reasonable doubt that appellant committed offences
 punishable under Sections 13(1)(d) read with Section 13(2) of the PC
 Act and Section 120B read with Section 403 / 409 IPC. 10. Om Prakash Narang Crl.A. 269/2016 (A-3) : in favour of Y.P. Sharma. He also deposited cheques received from
 Subhash Chander and Gulshan Kumar in his account No. 9778
 maintained at Punjab National Bank, R.K. Puram. Appellant further CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 76 of 177 got deposited such fraudulently issued cheques in the account of
 Subhash Chander, Assistant Fitter in DTC in his account No. 5160,
 Canara Bank, Tagore Garden, New Delhi and account No. 6565
 Syndicate Bank, Hari Nagar. He also deposited fraudulently issued
 cheques in the account of Gulshan Kumar, brother of Sunil Kumar in
 his account No. 8490 UCO Bank, Janakpuri. Thus contention of
 learned counsel for the appellant that he prepared the bills at the
 instance of the superior authorities is incorrect. Appellant is both a
 perpetrator of the offences as well as the beneficiary.
10.3. A perusal of the record reveals that the prosecution has been able to
 prove 5 out of the 11 cheques deposited in the various accounts of the
 appellant. Rajesh Kumar Chadha, (PW-8) Assistant Manager State
 Bank of India R.K. Puram exhibited the seizure memo Ex.PW-8/1 by
 which documents were collected by the CBI. He also identified the
 signatures of Shri K.C. Likha, Branch Manager as Ex.PW-8/2.
 Statement of account No.26936 maintained at State Bank of India
 R.K. Puram in the name of the appellant and Neeru Narang was placed
 on record as Mark 'B' and thus not exhibited, however the account
 opening form was exhibited as Ex.PW-8/3. It is thus evident neither
 the cheques No. 237918, 24150, 274739 and 276837 were proved nor
 was the statement of account of State Bank of India R.K. Puram. The
 only evidence proved in relation to the transaction of State Bank of
 India R.K. Puram was D-48, a P&AO Cheque No.233892 dated 20th
 October, 1998 for ₹52,000/- issued in favour of Om Prakash proved as
 Ex.PW-51/35. By the opinion of the handwriting expert, only fact
 proved is that S.K. Aggarwal (A-17) prepared a cheque for a sum of CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 77 of 177 ₹52,000/- in favour of Om Prakash. In the absence of proof of
 collection or deposit of the cheque in the account of the appellant, the
 onus does not shift on the appellant under Section 106 Evidence Act to
 explain the transaction. 10.4. In respect of the Account No. 109020 Allahabad Bank, Tilak Nagar in
 the name of O.P. Narang, prosecution has exhibited four cheques of
 P&AO CWC bearing No.231363 dated 22nd July, 1998 for a sum of
 ₹51,028/- as Ex.PW-51/34, cheque No. 235939 dated 1st January, 1999
 for ₹53,000/- vide Ex.PW-51/36, cheque No.238522 dated 31st
 February, 1999 for a sum of ₹88,937/- and cheque No.241861 dated
 13th August, 1999 for a sum of ₹33,000/- vide Ex.PW-51/38 issued in
 favour of Om Prakash. Further Anil Kathuria (PW-4), Special
 Assistant Allahabad Bank, Tilak Nagar produced the certified copy of
 the statement of account No.109020 along with debit vouchers vide
 Ex.PW-4/5 and Ex.PW-4/3 respectively. Ex.PW-4/5 which has been
 duly proved shows four credit entries in Account No. 109020
 Allahabad Bank of the appellant. Nothing has been elicited in the
 cross-examination of this witness, hence it can be safely held that
 prosecution has been able to prove the evidence in relation to the
 transactions in the account at Allahabad Bank, Tilak Nagar Branch
 against the appellant. 10.5. In respect of Account No.9778 Punjab National Bank, R.K. Puram
 cheque No.997181 for ₹22,000/-, cheque No. 997184 for ₹27,570/-,
 cheque No. 631230 for ₹18,000/- and cheque No. 997816 for
 ₹21,000/- have been proved by the investigating officer PW-54 vide
 Ex.PW-54/Z-51. Since the cheques are not akin to the statement of CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 78 of 177 bank account which are required to be proved as per Section 4 and Section 2A of the Act and no objection to the mode of proof was taken
 during trial, prosecution has proved that the appellant deposited four
 cheques in his account No.9778 Punjab National Bank, R.K. Puram.
10.6. Subhash Chander (PW-44) who was working as an Assistant Fitter in
 DTC Hari Nagar Depot-I deposed that he had two bank accounts one
 in Canara Bank, Tagore Garden Branch and other in Syndicate Bank,
 Hari Nagar Branch. He proved his account opening form-cum-
 specimen signature and statement of account at Syndicate Bank as
 Ex.PW-44/A and Ex.PW-44/B respectively and in respect of the
 Canara Bank Branch at Tagore Garden as Ex.PW-44/C and Ex.PW-
 44/D respectively. He knew the appellant as he used to visit his
 brother. He further deposed that a sum of ₹57,000/- was deposited in
 his bank account No.6565 Syndicate Bank by the appellant by cheque
 No.241538 dated 28th July, 1999 vide pay-in-slip dated 29th July, 1999
 (D-149). He identified the signatures of the appellant and his own
 signatures on the pay-in-slip. He exhibited the cheque as Ex.PW-
 44/F-1 and pay-in-slip as Ex.PW-44/F-2. He further deposed that after
 two days on the asking of the appellant, he withdrew the amount of
 ₹55,100/- vide cheque No. 3533965 [Ex.PW-44/F-3] dated 2nd August,
 1999 from his account and paid the amount to the appellant. The
 balance amount of ₹1900/- was paid to the appellant in cash. He
 further deposed that a sum of ₹49,470/- were deposited in his bank
 account 15160 Canara Bank through cheque No. 242363 dated 1 st
 September, 1999 by the appellant. He identified signatures of the
 appellant on the pay-in-slip and exhibited the cheque as Ex.PW-44/G- 1 and pay-in-slip as PW-44/G-2. He further proved the pay-in-slip
 Ex.PW-44/G-3 dated 10th December, 1999 by which a sum of
 ₹57,000/- was deposited in his account No.15160 Canara Bank
 through cheque No. 276232 dated 7th December, 1999 by the appellant
 and identified signature of the appellant on the pay-in-slip. He also
 deposed that on the asking of the appellant he handed-over an amount
 of ₹27,570/- vide cheque No. 997184 [Ex.PW-44/G-4] dated 10th
 September, 1999 and ₹21,000/- vide cheque No.997186 [Ex.PW-
 44/G-5] dated 14th December, 1999. The balance amount of ₹57,900/-
 was also paid to the appellant in cash after withdrawing the amount
 from bank through self-cheques amounting to ₹20,000/- vide cheque
 No.997183 [Ex.PW-44/G-6] and ₹38,000/- vide cheque No.997185
 [Ex.PW-44/G-7] dated 14th December, 1999. In cross-examination on
 behalf of the appellant, Subhash Chander further clarified that the
 cheques were never handed-over by the appellant to him but deposited
 in his account directly. Rest of the cross-examination hinges on as to
 how much time he remained in judicial custody and it was suggested
 that he was falsely deposing at the instance of CBI.
10.7. Prosecution also examined Sunil Kumar (PW-42) who was running a
 chemist shop with his brother and knew the appellant as he used to
 visit their shop to purchase medicines. Sunil Kumar deposed that the
 appellant asked him about his bank account to which he replied that he
 had two bank accounts. He exhibited the documents relating to his
 account bearing No.5945 in Bank of India, Keshopur Gaon i.e.
 account opening form as Ex-PW-42/A and specimen signature card as
 Ex.PW-42/B. Certified copy of the statement of account was CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 80 of 177 exhibited as Ex.PW-42/C. Objection was taken only in respect of the
 account opening form that it was not certified as per the provisions of
 the Act and hence inadmissible in evidence, which objection is
 required to be rejected as Section 2A and 4 of the Act has application
 to the entries in the books of accounts and not other documents. Sunil
 Kumar also proved his account opening form already exhibited as
 Ex.PW8/3 for account No.7733 State Bank of India Vikas Puri and its
 statement of account vide Ex.PW-42/D. He deposed that the appellant
 told him that some cheques were prepared in the name of Sunil Kumar
 in his office and asked him to deposit those cheques in his account.
 After some time appellant along with Y.P. Sharma came to his shop
 and told that he would not be troubled because it was their
 departmental matter. On their assurance he agreed to deposit the
 cheques in his account. He deposited cheques for ₹45,000/-, 62,000/-
 and 58,000/- in his bank accounts. After some time appellant
 demanded cash in lieu of the three cheques which he paid to him.
 Even in his cross-examination Sunil Kumar reiterated his version in
 the examination-in-chief and stated that he doubted the bona-fide of
 the appellant and Y.P. Sharma as the cheques were Government
 cheques but he was assured by the accused persons that no harm
 would come to him. 10.8. Though learned counsel for CBI presses that some cheques were
 deposited in the account of Gulshan Kumar who was the brother of
 Sunil Kumar, however Gulshan Kumar has not been produced as a
 witness. Further statement of account relating to Gulshan Kumar's
 bank account has been exhibited by the investigating officer as CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 81 of 177 Ex.PW-54/Z-60. Though Ex.PW-54/Z-60 can be read in evidence as it
 is certified copy of the statement of account of Gulshan Kumar,
 however in the absence of the testimony of Gulshan Kumar, there is
 no evidene of appellant being associated with the cheques deposited in
 the account of Gulshan Kumar. 10.9. The allegation of appellant issuing two counter cheques for sum of
 ₹20,000/- and 35,000/- in favour of Y.P. Sharma has already been
 dealt in Para 8.9 above while dealing with the appeal of Y.P. Sharma
 (A-1). In view of the evidence discussed in Para 8.9 above this
 allegation stands proved beyond reasonable doubt against the
 appellant as well. 10.10. Statements of Subhash Chander (PW-44) Sunil Kumar (PW-42),
 Gulshan Ahuja (PW-6), Bank Officer, Bank of India, Keshopur
 Branch coupled with the transactions prove the case of the prosecution
 against the appellant beyond reasonable doubt. From the evidence on
 record led by the prosecution it can be safely held that the prosecution
 has proved the case against the appellant for offences punishable
 under Section 13(2) read with 13(1)(d) PC Act , Section 403 IPC and
 120-B read with 403/409 IPC . 11. Jai Kumar Singhal Crl.A. 396/2016 (A-4) : (ii) Secondly, that appellant and accused No.1, 2, 17 and in
 conspiracy with each other cancelled 21 account payee cheques
 issued in favour of various officers of the CWC and in lieu
 thereof, issued nine fresh cheques in favour of the DDO/CWC
 and amounts were disbursed to officers who did not figure in
 the above list of 21 account payee cheques. (iii) Thirdly, that the appellant prepared a bill for Hayat Singh
 (peon) in the name of H.Singh for an amount of ₹65,000/- so that the
 claim for TTA of H.S. Singh Dy. Director could be embezzled by
 Hayat Singh (peon) (iv) Fourthly, the appellant did not disburse the GPF withdrawal of
 ₹2,72,475/- which was sanctioned in favour of S.P. Garg." 11.2. In respect of allegation No.1 learned counsel for the appellant submits
 that the appellant was cashier in the CWC and as per the duty
 assigned to the appellant, once cheque prepared in the name of DDO
 was received by the appellant, who thereafter got it encashed from
 the bank and after the money was withdrawn appellant was required
 to prepare a note for acquittance so that the money could be
 disbursed to the concerned person. Prosecution has not proved that
 the appellant committed any act beyond the permissible duty.
 Prosecution was required to prove that the cheques in question were
 issued without proper bills/sanction and that they were
 misappropriated by the appellant which it failed to prove. Bills
 mentioned in Ex.PW-52/B and PW-52/C do not relate to the
 appellant. Further Exhibit PW-52/A are acquittance roll, challan
 register, receipt books etc. and by these documents no bills were CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 83 of 177 proved which related to the appellant. In the three requisition memos
 sent by Yashpal Gera (PW-52) no bills relating to the appellant have
 been requisitioned. Thus no evidence has been led by the
 prosecution to prove that the bills relating to the appellant were
 sought and denied. Even otherwise it was the duty of the prosecution
 to lead positive evidence to show that the cheques were issued
 without bills/ sanctions. The prosecution did not lead any evidence
 and by the impugned judgment the Court reversed the onus on the
 appellant holding that "why these cheques were issued to J.K.
 Singhal has neither been explained by A-17 nor by A-4 hence it is
 clear that cheques were issued by A-17 fraudulently without any bill/
 sanction etc." A.S. Gautam (PW-25) deposed that it was the
 responsibility of the DDO to prepare/ clear the bills for pay and
 allowances on the basis of sanction. No evidence has been adduced
 by the prosecution that the cheques in question were wrongly issued.
 Allegation that the details of the cheque had not been entered in the
 cheque acquittance register can also not be used against the appellant,
 since the same was not put to him under Section 313 Cr.P.C. nor
 does the cheque acquittance register for the year 1998-99 form part
 of the record nor has the same been proved. Thus, learned Trial
 Court rightly did not return any finding on this count against the
 appellant. 11.3. It is further contended that the prosecution failed to prove that the
 cheques in question were misappropriated by the appellant. No bank
 official from State Bank of India, R.K. Puram was examined and
 only a bank official from Syndicate Bank, Sonipat was examined. Thus, the pay-in-slips and the cheques relating to State Bank of India,
 R.K. Puram have not been proved in accordance with law. Hand-
 writing expert who has rendered the opinion is not a person
 competent to depose about the documents of the bank. In the
 absence of any bank official, mere proof of signature of appellant on
 the documents does not prove that the pay-in-slips and self-cheques
 were given effect to i.e. cheques were deposited with the pay-in-slips
 and the amount credited to the account of the appellant where after
 the amount was withdrawn using self-cheques and debited from the
 account of the appellant. In view of the hand-writing expert's
 opinion even if the document is held to be proved the content thereof
 cannot be held to be proved. Further Kanhaiya Lal (PW-1) who is a
 witness from State Bank of India, R.K. Puram only identifies the
 signature on a seizure memo and does not state about the relevant
 transactions or the account numbers. The investigating officer (PW- 54) exhibited the bank account opening form and account statement,
 however, he is not the competent witness to prove the said
 documents. Therefore, bank account statement is to be taken as not
 proved and in the absence of the bank account statement having been
 proved, no finding can be returned that the amounts were credited to
 the account of the appellant and later withdrawn. Reliance is placed
 on the decision of the Supreme Court in Malay Kumar Ganguly (supra) to contend that there is a distinction between exhibition of a
 document and proof of a document. Even if the document is
 exhibited without any objection if the same is inadmissible, mere
 exhibiting the same would not make the document admissible or the CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 85 of 177 contents thereof as proved in the absence of the author of the
 document being examined as a witness. 11.4. With regard to allegation No.2, it is the contention of learned counsel
 for the appellant that the case of the prosecution is in two parts;
 firstly that 21 account payee cheques were cancelled and 9 fresh
 cheques were issued in the name of DDO for the same amount and
 secondly cheques were encashed and amounts disbursed to persons
 other than persons in whose names the cheques had originally been
 signed. Learned counsel for the appellant contends that the appellant
 was only a cashier and had no role in either cancellation of a cheque
 or issuance of a fresh cheque. Prosecution examined B.S. Yadav,
 (PW-29) Pay & Accounts Officer CWC and N.R. Meena (PW-30)
 Assistant Accounts Officer, Regional Pay & Accounts Office, CWC
 who deposed about the procedure to be followed while cancellation
 of accounts payee cheques and issuance of fresh cheques. However,
 in the deposition of the two witnesses there is no allegation
 whatsoever as to the role played by the appellant in the conspiracy.
 The notes on the basis of which cheques were issued were sent by the
 DDO and the cheques were issued by the P&AO. The only role, if at
 all, ascribed to the appellant is that after fresh 9 cheques were issued
 by the P&AO in the name of DDO, these cheques were encashed by
 the appellant and upon receipt of the money from the bank, the
 appellant prepared a note for preparation of the acquittance roll for
 disbursement of the amounts which amounts were disbursed by the
 DDO. No document whatsoever has been signed by the appellant
 except a forwarding letter asking for preparation of the acquittance CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 86 of 177 roll. All the acquittance rolls have been signed by C.Manjhi who
 was the DDO and money was also released by him. Even R.C. Tuli
 (PW-26) who deposed about the acquittance rolls, identified the
 signatures of C.Manjhi, DDO and did not identify any document
 signed by the appellant. Forwarding letters for preparing the
 acquittance rolls was a part of the appellant's normal duty. Appellant
 neither disbursed the money nor cancelled the cheques nor prepared
 the cheques. Thus, no criminality can be attached to the actions of
 the appellant. The hand-writing expert PW-51 only proved the
 signatures of appellant on three notes for preparation of acquittance
 rolls. Thus even the second allegation against the appellant has not
 been proved by the prosecution. 11.5. Learned counsel further contends that the third allegation against the
 appellant is that he filled up the application/ bill for Transfer Travel
 Allowance (TTA) for Hayat Singh, the co-convict. Merely filling up
 the application/ bill of TTA for Hayat Singh will not impute any
 criminal liability to the appellant for the reason it is not unknown that
 applications of illiterate or less-educated staff are filled up by the
 senior officers. Further the said form is neither signed by the
 appellant nor the appellant has derived any benefit out of the same.
 Merely on the strength of the hand-writing expert's opinion that the
 appellant filled up the application/ bill for TTA which is not
 corroborated by any other evidence, appellant cannot be convicted on
 the ground that he conspired with Hayat Singh for misappropriating
 the amount. Reliance is placed on the decision reported as 190
 (2012) DLT 600 Sandeep Dixit Vs. State. 11.6. In respect of the fourth allegation learned counsel submits that the
 appellant did not disburse the GPF withdrawal of ₹2,72,475/-
 sanctioned in favour of S.P. Garg, learned Trial Court has already
 held the same to be not proved against the appellant.
11.7. Learned counsel for the appellant, lastly, submits that the order on
 sentence passed by the learned Trial Court is bereft of reasoning.
 Learned Trial Court has not even noted the mitigating and
 aggravating circumstances much less rejecting the same and awarded
 disproportionate punishment. Though C.Manjhi, the main accused
 has been granted 5 years rigorous imprisonment, the sentence
 awarded to the appellant is 7 years. It is thus prayed that in the
 alternative sentence of the appellant be reduced.
11.8. Learned counsel for the CBI countering the arguments of learned
 counsel for the appellant submits that the appellant was working as
 an Assistant-cum-Cashier drawing a salary of ₹10,142/- including
 various allowances such as DA, HRA, CCA and conveyance
 allowance etc., as proved vide Ex.PW-54/Z-11 which document
 when exhibited was not objected to. As per the statement of bank
 account No.126205 of State Bank of India, R.K. Puram of appellant,
 7 CWC cheques were deposited by him in his account. The
 statement of bank account was exhibited by PW-54 as Ex. PW-54/Z-
 58 without any objection to the same. Further, the appellant
 withdrew a sum of ₹5,15,000/- through 10 cheques as is evident from
 documents Ex.PW-51/202 to 51/211. The said cheques bear the
 signature of the appellant on the front side as well as back side
 establishing the encashment by him and his signatures stand duly CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 88 of 177 proved by the testimony of handwriting Expert (PW-51). The pay-
 in-slips Ex.PW-51/194 to 200 have also been filled and signed by the
 appellant whose hand-writing has been proved by PW-51. Thus, the
 appellant deposited CWC cheques in his own account bearing No.
 126205 at State Bank of India, R.K. Puram. Further the appellant
 deposited a CWC cheque No. 277100 dated 6th January, 2000 for a
 sum of ₹41,166/- in his account No. 6956 Syndicate Bank, Sonipat
 vide pay-in-slip dated 8th January, 2000 which fact has been proved
 from the testimony of Ashok Kumar Kathpal, (PW-12) Manager,
 Syndicate Bank who was in the year 2001 posted at Sonipat Branch
 of Syndicate Bank as Manager. He has proved the certified copy of
 the account opening form vide Ex.PW-12/A and that later it was
 converted into a joint account of the appellant with his wife Kamlesh
 Singhal and certified copy thereof was also exhibited as Ex.PW-
 12/B. Certified copy of the statement of account of the aforesaid
 account was exhibited as Ex.PW-12/E and the collection voucher of
 outstation cheque collected by the bank and signed by the account
 holder vide Ex.PW-12/F. It is deposed that payment of cheque
 No.277100 dated 6th January, 2000 for an amount of ₹41,166/- drawn
 on the State Bank of India R.K. Puram Branch was credited in
 account No.6956 of the appellant on 21st January, 2000 after
 deducting the collection charges. In respect of the third allegation
 relating to sanction of advance TTA for a sum of ₹65,000/- in favour
 of H.S. Singh, Deputy Director, prosecution has proved two bills
 Ex.P-5 and Ex.P-6 claiming sums of ₹15,000/- and ₹65,000/-
 respectively duly written by the appellant showing the name of CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 89 of 177 claimant as Hayat Singh and H. Singh respectively. Appellant
 fraudulently changed the same to H. Singh or Hayat Singh due to
 similarity of name of H.S. Singh, Deputy Director. Further the bill in
 relation to sanction order Ex.P-12 for advance TTA for a sum of
 ₹57,000/- to L.Ram, Deputy Director was also prepared by the
 appellant on the basis of fake sanction order P-13 in the name of Lalu
 Ram, Deputy Director. The bills were duly proved. On verification
 it was found that no such sanction order was issued for a sum of
 ₹65,000/- in favour of H. Singh or H.S. Singh on his transfer to
 Bhubneshwar. 11.9. Rebutting the arguments on behalf of CBI, learned counsel for the
 appellant submits that prosecution has failed to discharge the onus to
 show that the cheuqes in question were issued without valid bills or
 against improper bills and since DDO/ Pay & Accounts Officer/
 other officials of the Account Department have not been charged
 with taking part in the transaction, presumption arises that the
 cheques were duly issued. Reiterating the contention that PW-54 or
 PW-51 were not competent to prove the bank account statements or
 the bank records it is submitted that there is no legal evidence on
 record to prove the first allegation against the appellant. The
 objection as to admissibility of the document can be raised at any
 stage. Section 34 of the Indian Evidence Act is not applicable as the
 same deals with the relevancy of the fact and not of admissibility. In
 respect of the cheque deposited at Syndicate Bank, Sonipat
 prosecution has failed to prove that the cheque in question had been
 issued without a valid bill/ sanction. As regards the allegations CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 90 of 177 relating to sanctions in favour Hayat Singh and Lachi Ram it is
 contended that the testimony of the hand-writing expert, cannot be
 the sole basis of conviction as held by the Supreme Court in ( 1977) 2
 SCC 210 Magan Bihari Lal Vs. State of Punjab ; ( 1996) 4 SCC 596 S.
 Gopal Reddy Vs. State of A.P. and ( 1973) 4 SCC 46 Smt. Bhagwan
 Kaur Vs. Shri Maharaj Krishan Sharma & Ors.. In respect of fourth
 allegation of misappropriation, learned Trial Court has already held
 that there is no evidence to connect the appellant to the said
 transaction, hence the appellant cannot be convicted for the same.
11.10. In respect of the first set of allegations against appellant prosecution
 has proved from the pay bill register Ex.PW-54/Z-11 that appellant
 was drawing a salary of ₹10,142/- per month including various
 allowances such as DA, HRA, conveyance allowance etc. Further
 statement of bank account No.126205 State Bank of India R.K.
 Puram has been proved by PW-54 by producing certified copy of the
 statement of bank account No.126205 as mandated under Section 2A
 of the Bankers' Books Evidence and has been exhibited vide Ex.PW-
 54/Z-58. Though it is contended that the said document is not
 admissible in evidence, however as earlier held while dealing with
 this issue if the certified copy is compliant of Section 2A of the Act
 then it is a document admissible in evidence and in respect of the
 mode of proof that it was exhibited by the investigating officer, no
 objection was taken at the time when the document was exhibited.
 Thus certified copy of the statement of account Ex.PW-54/Z-58 is
 held to be legally admissible and validly proved document.
 Statement of account No.126205 State Bank of India, R.K. Puram in CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 91 of 177 the name of the appellant i.e. Ex.PW-54/Z-58 reveals that 7 cheques
 numbered 237735, 239491, 240060, 238125, 239010, 275095 and
 277099 issued in favour of Jai Kumar Singhal, for sum of ₹86,065/-,
 1,35,671/-, 86,955/-, 1,29,801/-, 98,546/-, 76,500/- and 53,340/-
 respectively were deposited in the account. Further though the last
 four cheques were not available, hand-writing on the first three
 cheques i.e. cheque numbers 237735, 239491 and 240060 has been
 proved to be of S.K. Aggarwal (A-17) vide Ex.PW-51/50, Ex.PW-
 51/51 and PW-51/52. From the certified copy of the statement of
 bank account No.126205 State Bank of India, R.K. Puram Ex.PW-
 54/Z-58 in the name of the appellant it is further evident that he
 withdrew a sum of ₹5,15,000/- through 10 self-cheques. Hand-
 writing on the self-cheques has been proved to be of appellant vide
 the opinion of the expert who examined the said self cheques vide
 Ex.PW-51/202 to 51/211. Further from the evidence of Ashok
 Kumar Kathpal, (PW-12) the then Manager Syndicate Bank, Sonipat
 who proved the joint account No.6956 to be in the name of appellant
 and his wife Kamlesh Singhal and exhibited the statement of account
 vide Ex.PW-12/E it has been proved that a cheque of ₹41,166/- was
 credited to his account on 21st January, 2000 after deducting the
 collection charges. As noted above, it has been proved by the
 prosecution that the salary of appellant was ₹10,142/- per month
 including various allowances. Hence deposit of a sum of ₹8,62,544/-
 in his bank accounts within a period of less than one year and
 corresponding withdrawals by self-cheques during the same period
 proves unaccounted for deposits and withdrawals from his bank CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 92 of 177 account. The same having been proved by the prosecution, under Section 106 of the Indian Evidence Act onus shifts on the appellant
 to explain facts especially within his knowledge which it could do
 either by cross-examining the prosecution witnesses or leading
 defence evidence or even probabilising the same in his statement
 under Section 313 Cr.P.C. which appellant has failed to prove.
 Contention of learned counsel for the appellant that the evidence that
 details of cheques had not been entered into in the cheque acquittance
 register was not put to him under Section 313 Cr.P.C. and thus
 cannot be used in evidence is required to be rejected, firstly for the
 reason that the first allegation against the appellant has been proved
 on the basis of the evidence noted above and not the cheque
 acquittance register and secondly, for the reason that in a statement
 under Section 313 Cr.P.C. entire circumstance is required to be put to
 the accused and not individual pieces of evidence constituting the
 circumstance. Thus, it can safely be held that the first allegation of
 the prosecution against the appellant has been proved beyond
 reasonable doubt. 11.11. In respect of the second set of allegations against the appellant
 regarding cancellation of 21 accounts payee cheques issued in favour
 of various officers of CWC and in lieu thereof issuance of 9 cheques
 in favour of DDOs/ CWC, where after the amount was disbursed to
 officers who did not figure in the list of 21 accounts payee cheques,
 this Court has already discussed the evidence while dealing with
 appeals of Y.P. Sharma (A-1) in paragraph 8.10, appellant C. Manjhi
 in paragraph 9.6 to 9.15, appellant S.K. Aggarwal in Paras 21.9 to CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 93 of 177 21.14 hereinafter, wherein the role of the appellant has also been
 explicated as this offence was committed by appellants Y.P. Sharma
 (A-1), C.Manjhi (A-2), J.K. Singhal (A-4) and S.K. Aggarwal (A-17)
 in conspiracy and are not being repeated herein. 11.12. The third allegation against the appellant is that he prepared fake bills
 in favour of Hayat Singh and Lachi Ram. Learned Trial Court in
 respect of Hayat Singh dealt the issue while dealing with case of
 Hayat Singh and in respect of Lachi Ram it was held that he was not
 inclined to discuss the same as Lachi Ram had died. As per this
 allegation the appellant prepared fake bills advance of Transfer
 Travel Allowance (TTA) in favour of H.S. Singh, Deputy Director
 and L. Ram, Deputy Director. An advance for a sum of ₹65,000/-
 was sanctioned vide sanction order Ex.P-7 where after two bills,
 Ex.P-5 claiming a sum of ₹15,000/- and Ex.P-6 claiming a sum of
 ₹65,000/- were prepared by the appellant and his hand-writing stands
 proved by the evidence of PW-51 on the bills wherein the claimants
 have been named as Hayat Singh and H. Singh respectively. Though
 the claim was purportedly made by H.S. Singh, Deputy Director
 which was sanctioned vide order dated P-7, however the bills were
 cleared in the name of Hayat Singh. Similarly, a sanction order
 Ex.P-13 for advance TTA was prepared for a sum of ₹57,000/- in
 favour of L. Ram, Deputy Director whereas bill Ex.P-12 claiming a
 sum of ₹57,000/- was prepared by the appellant in the name of
 claimant L. Ram and the bill was forwarded to C. Manjhi. A.S.
 Gautam, (PW-25) Senior Accounts Officer in the CWC appeared in
 the witness box and proved the aforesaid bills prepared by the CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 94 of 177 appellant. On verification it was found that no sanction order was
 issued by the Secretary CWC granting LTC of ₹15,000/- in favour of
 Hayat Singh. Thus the complicity of the appellant in the third
 allegation is also proved beyond reasonable doubt.
11.13. In respect of the fourth allegation relating to the non-disbursal of the
 GPF withdrawal of ₹2,72,475/- which was sanctioned in favour of
 S.P. Garg the prosecution examined S.P. Garg, PW-32 as a witness.
 Though contention of learned counsel for the appellant is that this
 allegation has been disbelieved by the Trial Court and he has been
 rightly acquitted, however it may be noted that the learned Trial
 Court held that it would not be safe to connect the appellant to this
 transaction. 11.14. S.P. Garg appeared as PW-32 and deposed that he was posted and
 functioning as Deputy Director CWC in the year 1999-2000 and in
 the month of November, 2000 he had applied for GPF withdrawal of
 ₹3 lakhs on account of marriage of his niece. Withdrawal of
 ₹2,72,475/- was sanctioned on 27th November, 2000 which was
 informed to him on 14th December, 2000. He was also informed that
 the amount had already been withdrawn on 1st December, 2000.
 However he had not received any money on account of such sanction
 and he did not know who embezzled the amount. He came to know
 about the facts when he applied for the cancellation of the withdrawal
 since the engagement of his niece was cancelled due to some
 problem. He saw the signatures on the Acquittance Roll (D-485)
 across the revenue stamp and stated that they were not his signatures
 and had been forged. He exhibited the Acquittance Roll as Ex.PW- 32/A. He deposed that he made representation, however when no
 action was taken he filed a writ petition before the High Court of
 Delhi when the authorities were directed to credit the account back in
 his GPF. 11.15. Further prosecution examined Mr. I.S.U. Puram, (PW-33) Sr.
 Assistant (Retired) from State Bank of India, R.K. Puram who
 exhibited the bank receipts scroll Ex.PW-33/A which was in his
 hand-writing and also the entries in the delivery book made on 1 st
 December, 2000 of the said amount. He exhibited the copies of the
 delivery book vide Ex.PW-33/B and Ex.PW-33/C and the pay-in-slip
 vide Ex.PW-33/D whereby the amount of ₹2,72,475/- was deposited
 in the account. He also exhibited photocopy of the account opening
 form of B.K. Khullar vide Ex.PW-33/E. The computer generated
 certified copy of the statement of account of B.K. Khullar were also
 exhibited as Ex.PW-33/F. I.S.U. Puram also deposed that he
 received the credit voucher from the appellant and the amount was
 credited in bank account of B.K. Khullar No.13061 which shows the
 complicity of the appellant in unauthorizedly siphoning off the
 cheque from the GP Fund of S.P. Garg (PW-32). 11.16. As noted above, appellant was working as Assistant-cum-Cashier in
 the CWC and Rule 13 of the Central Government Accounts, Receipts
 and Payments Rule provide that all transactions are required to be
 entered into the cash book. In this regard the prosecution examined
 Ram Yagya Tiwari, PW-39 who was posted as Accounts Officer in
 CWC from 6th December, 1996 to 30th March, 2001 on deputation.
 He exhibited 27 challans depositing the amounts in State Bank of CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 96 of 177 India, R.K. Puram being D-3 to D-29 and exhibited the same as
 Ex.PW-39/A-1 to A-27 and the cash books for the period 27th
 September, 1999 to 15th March, 2000 and 16th April, 2000 to 10th
 November, 2000 exhibited as Ex.PW-26/H and Ex.PW-39/B
 respectively. He deposed that all the challans which were in the
 name of B.M. Ghosh, B.B. Sharma, Chandrashekhar, Kamal Sharma,
 Sandeep Kumar, Gulshan Kumar, Sunil Kumar, Subhash Chander,
 Om Prakash, Shiv Sagar and R.L. Kawale were under the signatures
 of C.Manjhi (A-2) and he could identify the same as he had seen him
 writing and signing and the cash books exhibited as Ex.PW-26/H and
 Ex.PW-39/B respectively did not contain entries in respect of the
 aforesaid challans Ex.PW-39/A-1 to A-27. This witness also
 deposed that it was the duty of the cashier to make entries in the cash
 book in the ordinary course of business. Though this witness has
 been cross-examined by C.Manjhi, however there is no cross-
 examination on behalf of the appellant. 11.17. In view of the discussion aforesaid, the prosecution has been able to
 prove all four allegations against the appellant beyond reasonable
 doubt and his being a part of larger conspiracy with other appellants. 12. Crl.A. 297/2016 - J.P. Sharma v. CBI (A-6 ) : chief of the witnesses recorded without noting the contradictions and
 improvements brought out in the cross-examination. Some of the
 witnesses admitted that the original documents were not available
 and hence not proved. Conviction has been based on allegations
 which were not part of the charge. 12.2. Learned counsel for the CBI submits that while the appellant was
 working as Deputy Director, CWC, he deposited cheques
 fraudulently issued by Pay & Accounts Office, CWC in pursuance of
 a criminal conspiracy in the bank accounts of Chander Shekhar his
 son, Bhagwan Singh, his friend, Om Prakash, Retired Officer from
 CWC, his friend, Sandeep Kumar, his neighbor, B.B. Sharma,
 U.D.C. CWC, Yesudanam, Assistant Director and Bhagwan Singh,
 Junior Computer, CWC. The appellant was drawing a salary of
 ₹15,338/- including various allowances such as DA, HRA, CCA,
 conveyance allowances etc., as per Ex.PW-54/Z/11. The appellant
 maintained one account at State Bank of India, R.K. Puram being CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 98 of 177 Account No. 36903. Statement of account No. 36903 has been
 proved by PW-28 as per which four cheques were deposited in the
 account of the appellant for sum of ₹18,139/-, ₹61,140/-, ₹50,000/-
 and ₹1,00,000/-. Statement of account also reflects credit entry of
 ₹5,000/- on 6th March, 1999 from Om Prakash S/o Sohan Lal (A-11)
 which has not been explained by the appellant in his statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C. Appellant also maintained an account at Canara
 Bank, Shastri Nagar being account No. 2890 wherein an amount of
 ₹36,700/- was credited from the account of Om Prakash (A-11)
 which fact is proved by the testimony of Sunit Prakash, (PW-41)
 Manager, Canara Bank. Further appellant deposited fraudulently
 issued 7 cheques in the account of his son Chander Shekhar (PW-47),
 one cheque in the account of Brij Bhushan Sharma (PW-14), Canteen
 Manager, one cheque in the account of Brij Kishore Sharma (PW-5)
 Clerk, Delhi State Cooperative Bank, one cheque in the name of
 Sandeep Kumar Maheshwari (PW-49) who was rendering tuitions to
 the children of the appellant and three cheques in the name of Kamal
 Kumar Sharma (PW-40) nephew of the appellant. Further J.P.
 Sharma also deposited one cheque in the account of Bhagwan Singh
 for a sum of ₹95,154/-. It is contended that the appellant was an
 active participant in the conspiracy and committed the offences, he
 has been convicted of. 12.3. To prove the allegations of depositing four cheques in his account No.
 36903 State Bank of India, R.K. Puram against the appellant,
 prosecution has examined I.S. Ranga, (PW-28) Deputy Manager
 State Bank of India who was posted at R.K. Puram Branch of State CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 99 of 177 Bank of India in July 2000. He exhibited the account opening form
 of the appellant as Ex.PW-28/A by virtue of which his saving
 accounts No. 36903 was opened on 11th May, 1990. He exhibited the
 computerized statement of account running into 23 pages as Ex.PW-
 28/B inadvertently noted as Ex.PW-8/B, however the same is an
 uncertified copy thus not admissible in evidence. Further Ex.PW-
 41/B which is stated to be the statement of account No. 2890 in the
 name of Anaro Devi and the appellant is actually statement of
 account of Chander Shekhar that too is not a certified copy as per Section 2A of the Act. However R.C. Tully (PW-26) proved that
 there was no corresponding entry in respect to cheque No. 229533
 dated 18th May, 1998 issued for ₹18,139/- exhibited as Ex.PW-7/B in
 the cheque acquittance register Ex.PW-7/A. In respect of an amount
 of ₹36,700/- credited into the account No. 2890 Canara Bank, Shastri
 Nagar maintained by the appellant from the account of Om Prakash
 (A-11), Sunit Prakash, (PW-41) Manager, Canara Bank appeared in
 the witness box and exhibited the pay-in-slip for a sum of ₹36,700/-
 vide Ex.PW-41/D and the production-cum-seizure memo vide
 Ex.PW-41/C. Statement of account No. 2890 was also placed on
 record and exhibited vide Ex.PW-41/B, however the copy placed on
 record is not certified in terms of Section 2A of the Act, thus
 inadmissible in evidence. Be that as it may, from the pay-in-slip
 Ex.PW-41/D duly proved by Sunit Prakash (PW-41), deposition of a
 sum of ₹36,700/- in the account of the appellant stands proved and
 when asked question No.44 in this respect in his statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C., the appellant failed to render any explanation CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 100 of 177 except stating that the same was false. Facts especially within his
 knowledge as to how the money from the account of Om Prakash (A- 11) duly proved vide Ex.PW-54/Z-42 was credited into the account
 of the appellant was required to be explained by him, which onus
 under Section 106 of the Evidence Act he failed to discharge.
12.4. Prosecution examined Chander Shekhar S/o J.P. Sharma (appellant
 herein) as PW-47 who deposed that the appellant employed in CWC
 was his father and he had given him 7-8 cheques to be deposited in
 his bank account. On the directions of his father he opened an
 account in the Canara Bank, Shastri Nagar being account No.12676.
 He admitted his signatures and photograph on the account opening
 form as Ex.PW-41/E and PW-41/F respectively. He also identified
 his signatures on the statement of account exhibited as PW-41/B.
 Ex.PW-41/B which is stated to be the statement of account No. 2890
 in the name of Anaro Devi and the appellant is actually statement of
 account of Chander Shekhar but is also not a certified copy as per Section 2A of the Act hence not admissible in evidence. Be that as it
 may, Chander Shekhar further identified the handwriting on the four
 pay-in-slips for depositing the said cheques which were filled-in by
 his father vide Ex.PW-47/1 to 4, though he did not identify hand-
 writing on the remaining four pay-in-slips i.e. Ex.PW-47/5 to 8.
 Thus the deposition of Chander Shekhar coupled with the pay-in-
 slips showing deposit of sum of ₹53,169/-, ₹28,530/-, ₹99,096/- and
 ₹1,22,043/- in his account duly written by his father, the appellant
 herein, proves the complicity of the appellant. Further as per the
 opinion of hand-writing expert (PW-51), five cheques vide Ex.PW- 51/39 to 44 issued in the name of Chander Shekhar were signed by
 S.K. Aggarwal (A-17). Chander Shekhar, (PW-47) further testified
 that after the clearance of said cheques in his account, the amount of
 the said cheques was withdrawn by him and handed-over to the Y.P.
 Sharma (A-1) whom he identified in Court. Chander Shekhar has not
 been cross-examined by the appellant or S.K. Aggarwal or Y.P.
 Sharma, thus his testimony has gone unchallenged.
12.5. The prosecution also examined Brij Bhushan Sharma, (PW-14) who
 deposed that in the year 2000 he was working as Manager Canteen in
 the office of CWC. During that period appellant was the Secretary of
 the canteen. On the day when he was going to retire in December
 2000, he was served with a letter from the Vigilance Department
 asking for a cheque amounting to ₹93,000/- credited into his account,
 to which he informed that the appellant who was his immediate
 senior had demanded ₹25,000/- to ₹30,000/- from him as he needed
 money on the condition that he would return the same in 2-3 days.
 So he gave him ₹28,000/- in cash. He had withdrawn the said
 amount by withdrawal slip from Syndicate Bank, R.K. Puram and
 handed-over the amount to the appellant. Thereafter, the appellant
 asked Brij Bhushan his account number and informed him of the
 deposit of a cheque in his account through a pay-in-slip duly signed
 by the appellant. However, when he went to his bank he found
 ₹93,000/- were deposited in his account and on asking the appellant
 he replied that he had done so to save income-tax. When he objected
 to this high deposit into his account, appellant asked him to return the
 money after retaining ₹28,000/- and thus he handed-over the access CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 102 of 177 amount to the appellant. PW-14 exhibited the two withdrawal slips
 as Ex.PW-14/A and 14/B respectively. He also identified signatures
 of the appellant on the cheque deposit slip dated 22nd December,
 1999 which was exhibited as Ex.PW-14/C. Though this witness has
 been confronted with certain improvements such as clarification
 about the account number being taken by the accused or the pay-in-
 slip, however the same are only clarificatory in nature elaborating the
 sequence of events and do not amount to material improvements
 which would entail discrediting the testimony of Brij Bhushan
 Sharma. Further the contention of learned counsel for the appellant
 that since the pay-in-slip i.e. Ex.PW-14/C was not put to him in his
 statement recorded under Section 313 Cr.P.C. is also required to be
 rejected for the reason it is well settled that in the statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C., incriminating circumstance has to be put to the
 accused and not every separate piece of evidence constituting the
 circumstance. [See AIR 1967 SC 752 Bakshish Singh Dhaliwal Vs.
 State of Punjab] In question number 7 put to the appellant in his
 statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C. the learned Trial Court put the
 circumstance of the appellant depositing a sum of ₹93,532/- in the
 account of Brij Bhushan Sharma to which the appellant replied that
 he had not received any cheque from office and the cheque given by
 B.B. Sharma had been deposited in his account. Further contention
 of learned counsel for the appellant that the learned Trial Court failed
 to notice cross-examination of B.B. Sharma wherein he admits that
 the appellant had not filled the deposit slip in his presence, thus no
 reliance can be placed on the examination-in-chief deserves to be CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 103 of 177 rejected for the reason though Bharat Bhushan Sharma did not see
 the appellant filling up and depositing the amount he identified
 appellant's signature on the slip as he had seen him writing in the
 ordinary course of work, the appellant being his immediate superior.
 Further the prosecution also examined R.P. Lekhi (PW-10) the then
 Manager Syndicate Bank, R.K. Puram who identified the seizure
 memo Ex.PW-1/A by virtue of which attested copies of the account
 opening form, specimen signatures, statement of account of Brij
 Bhushan Sharma were duly seized. Though from the testimony of
 R.P. Lekhi (PW-10), appellant seeks to show that original pay-in-slip
 was not recovered however when Ex.PW-14/C was exhibited by
 Bharat Bhushan Sharma no such objection was taken. The fact
 remains that the version of Brij Bhushan Sharma is duly corroborated
 by the documentary evidence proved by him thereby proving the
 allegation against the appellant. 12.6. Prosecution has also examined Sandeep Kumar Maheshwari (PW-49)
 who used to give tuitions to children of the appellant at his residence
 at Shastri Nagar, Delhi. This witness deposed that he had opened a
 savings bank account No. 1440 with the Delhi State Cooperative
 Bank at Bharat Nagar and further proved the account opening form,
 his signatures and statement of account already exhibited by Brij
 Kishore Sharma, (PW-5) Clerk of the Delhi State Cooperative Bank
 vide Ex.PW-5/2 and PW-5/4 respectively. Sandeep Kumar
 Maheshwari deposed that on 30th July, 1999 a cheque for an amount
 of ₹53,851 had been deposited in his account and he did not know
 who deposited the said amount vide the pay-in-slip already exhibited CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 104 of 177 as Ex.PW-5/5. He further deposed that son of the appellant came to
 his residence in the morning same day in the year 1999 and told him
 that his father had told him that a cheque had been inadvertently
 deposited in the account of Sandeep Kumar Maheshwari and asked
 him to issue a cheque for a sum of ₹53,200/-. Thus, he issued the
 self-cheque (B-682) of the aforesaid amount and handed-over to the
 son of the appellant. He identified the self-cheque issued by him and
 signatures of the appellant appearing at point A at the back side of
 the cheque and his own signature at point B on the front side.
 Nothing material has been elicited in his cross-examination except
 that Sandeep Kumar refunded a sum of ₹53,851/- to the CWC during
 the investigation of the case. Be that as it may, refunding the amount
 of ₹53,851/- by Sandeep Kumar Maheshwari does not absolve the
 appellant of his complicity in the offences alleged by the prosecution
 and from the evidence of Sandeep Kumar Maheshwari (PW-49) and
 Brij Kishore Sharma (PW-5) the prosecution has proved beyond
 reasonable doubt the facts noted hereinabove against the appellant.
12.7. Prosecution has also examined Kamal Kumar Sharma nephew of J.P.
 Sharma as PW-40. He deposed that the appellant was his maternal
 uncle and had borrowed a loan in the name of Kamal Kumar Sharma
 for purchasing a car for himself. He stated that the appellant gave
 him two demand drafts of ₹87,379/- and ₹67,445/- in the month of
 July and October. Both the drafts were deposited in his account
 bearing No. 16103 Syndicate Bank, Raj Nagar, Ghaziabad. He
 identified his signatures on the account opening form and the
 specimen signature card exhibited as Ex.PW-40/A1 and A2 CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 105 of 177 respectively. He also identified his statement of account vide
 Ex.PW-40/A3 which is duly certified in terms of Section 2A of the
 Act and depicts the two entries and that he withdrew the amounts of
 two demand drafts and paid over the said amount to the appellant. In
 his cross-examination he further stated that he handed-over the
 amount to the appellant who was accompanied with accused Y.P.
 Sharma whom he identified in the Court. Further A.S. Gautam, (PW- 25) Senior Accounts Officer, Pay and Accounts proved that a draft of
 ₹87,339/- was issued in favour of Kamal Sharma as reflected at serial
 number 341 of the demand draft register Ex.PW-15/A.
12.8. Prosecution has pressed a further allegation against the appellant that
 cheque No. 275051 dated 6th October, 1999 for a sum of ₹95,154/-
 was issued in favour of Bhagwan Singh, however the only fact
 proved in this regard is that the pay-in-slip dated 5th October, 1999
 for ₹95,154/- which bears the name of Bhagwan Singh was in the
 signature of the appellant as proved by the hand-writing expert.
 However, the prosecution has not examined Bhagwan Singh but
 having proved the pay-in-slip for a sum of ₹95,154/- in the name of
 Bhagwan Singh duly signed by the appellant, onus shifts on him to
 explain why an amount of ₹95,154/- was deposited in the account of
 Bhagwan Singh. 12.9. In view of the discussion aforesaid, the prosecution has proved
 beyond reasonable doubt that the appellant fraudulently deposited
 four cheques in the account of Chander Shekhar his son, one cheque
 in the account of Brij Bhushan Sharma, one cheque in the name of
 Sandeep Kumar Maheshwari, two drafts in the name of Kamal CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 106 of 177 Kumar Sharma his nephew, thereafter took the money from all these
 persons and mis-utilized the same. Further, the appellant failed to
 explain filling up of the pay-in-slip in respect of a cheque of
 ₹95,154/- in favour of Bhagwan Singh. Hence the prosecution has
 proved beyond reasonable doubt that the appellant committed
 offences punishable under Sections 403 , 120B IPC read with 403/409 IPC . 13. Crl.A. 342/2016 - Shiv Sagar Naik v. CBI (A-7) : Though it is alleged that 17 cheques were fraudulently deposited in
 the account of the appellant, however chart produced by the CBI
 relates to 15 cheques only. The amount of three cheques has already
 been refunded which fact has been deposed to by M.E. Haque (PW- 24). Though it is alleged that the appellant acted in conspiracy with
 Y.P. Sharma, however there is no such finding while deciding the
 conviction of Y.P.Sharma. The appellant has no connection
 whatsoever with the four sanction orders of LTC. Bank account
 statement of the appellant has not been proved. Even as per the
 statement of investigating officer PW-54 the appellant played no role
 in preparation of the challans. The appellant neither granted any
 sanction nor prepared any bills and thus he cannot be held liable with
 the aid of Section 120B IPC. In any case on similar allegations the
 appellant has already been convicted, thus, conviction in the present
 case would amount to double jeopardy. 13.2. Learned counsel for the CBI on the other hand contends that the
 appellant was Section Officer in Establishment and Accounts Section
 of CWC and used to draw a salary of ₹9974/- including various
 allowances such as DA, HRA, CCA and conveyance allowances as
 per Pay Bill register Ex.PW-54/Z/11. It is the case of the prosecution
 that 13 cheques were deposited in the account of the appellant for a
 sum of ₹59,883/-, ₹99,000/-, ₹1,58,736/-, ₹53,211/-, ₹59,883/-,
 ₹1,67,194/-, ₹67,445/-, ₹72,000/-, ₹54,000/-, ₹94,606/-, ₹62,450/-,
 ₹41,027/- and ₹25,800/-. The prosecution has proved the certified
 copies of the bank account opening form, signatures and
 computerized statement of the account No. 3233 of the appellant.
 Further Shri I.P.S. Bhatia, (PW-46) Deputy Manager, State Bank of
 India, R.K. Puram proved the cheques deposited in the account of the
 appellant. Further the said amount was withdrawn by 13 self-
 cheques from September, 1998 to February, 2000 which was not
 commensurate to the income/ salary of the appellant. Besides three
 more cheques were deposited in account No. 9975 maintained by the
 appellant at Syndicate Bank, R.K.Puram which fact stands proved by
 the testimony of M. Jinarajadasa (PW-11). LTC advance bills were
 prepared to the destinations Kerala and Kanya Kumari. Though the
 rule permits LTC once in a block of 2 to 4 years depending on the
 post, however within the same year two bills were approved. Four
 cheques were issued on account of LTC bills in the name of non-
 existing entities namely Shiv Sagar CE, Shiv Sagar Director and Shiv
 Sagar Assistant Director and credited into the accounts of the
 appellant clandestinely. No acquittance roll were prepared in respect CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 108 of 177 of all these cheques. Further three bills relating to LTC advance
 were prepared and the supporting documents were sent along with
 fake sanction orders. The bills in respect of the cheques were not
 available. The cheques were fraudulently issued by Y.P. Sharma and
 the funds credited to the accounts of appellant, withdrawn and shared
 with Y.P. Sharma. In one of the such withdrawals of ₹1,06,000/-,
 Y.P. Sharma has signed the document. 13.3. To establish its first charge of deposition of 13 cheques in account
 No. 32333 of the appellant in State Bank of India, R.K. Puram,
 prosecution examined Kanahya Lal, (PW-1) Assistant Manager, State
 Bank of India, R.K. Puram who deposed that he went to the CBI
 office and handed-over to the investigating officer who seized
 attested photocopies of the account opening form, original credit
 voucher and computerized statement of account No.32333 in the
 name of the appellant. Though this witness exhibited the production-
 cum-seizure memo Ex.PW-1/1, he did not exhibit the statement of
 account of the appellant which was exhibited by I.P.S. Bhatia, (PW- 46) Deputy Manager, State Bank of India, R.K. Puram while dealing
 with the transaction of the cheque bearing No. 277701 which was
 credited into the account vide Ex.PW-46/B. The said statement of
 account is certified as per Section 2A of the Act and thus admissible
 in evidence. I.P.S. Bhatia deposed that cheque of ₹1,39,097/-
 bearing No. 277701 was credited in three accounts firstly in the name
 of Shiv Sagar Naik having account No.01190/032333 wherein a sum
 of ₹41,027/- was credited vide entry 'A' and the statement of account
 was exhibited as PW-46/F. The pay-in-slip of the said cheque was CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 109 of 177 exhibited as Ex.PW-46/G. A perusal of Ex.PW-46/F which has been
 duly exhibited by I.P.S. Bhatia along with certificate under Section
 2A of the Act also shows credit entry for a sum of ₹59883/- on 17th
 March, 1999 by Government Transfer (GT). From the perusal of
 Ex.PW-46/F it is evident that by 13 cheques amount of ₹59,883/- on
 4th December, 1998, ₹99,000/- on 2nd January, 1999, ₹1,58,736/- on
 4th February, 1999, ₹53,211/- on 1st March, 1999, ₹59,883/- on 17th
 March, 1999, ₹1,67,194/- on 31st March, 1999, ₹25,800/- on 23rd
 April, 1999, ₹67,445/- on 29th April, 1999, ₹72,000/- on 11th June,
 1999, ₹54,000/- on 20th September, 1999, ₹94,606/- on 13th October,
 1999, ₹62,450/- on 7th January, 2000 and ₹41,027/- on 29th January,
 2000 respectively had been credited to the account of the appellant.
 Prosecution has also proved the 11 pay-in-slips vide Ex.PW-51/142,
 143, 144, 145, 146, 147, 148, 149, 150, 151. Further the statement of
 account Ex.PW-46/F reveals withdrawal through self-cheques for
 sums of ₹25,000/- on 17th August, 1998, ₹30,000/- on 21st
 September, 1998, ₹45,000/- on 7th December, 1998, ₹15,000/- on 16th
 December, 1998, ₹1,00,000/- on 4th January, 1999, ₹42,000/- on 27th
 January, 1999, ₹35,000/- on 4th March, 1999, ₹42,000/- on 19th
 March, 1999, ₹1,20,000/- on 31st March, 1999, ₹10,000/- on 26th
 April, 1999, ₹14,000/- on 28th April, 1999, ₹10,000/- on 1st May,
 1999, ₹46,000/- on 3rd May, 1999, ₹48,000/- on 12th June, 1999,
 ₹3,000/- on 1st July, 1999, ₹85,000/- on 15th October, 1999, ₹43,000/-
 on 10th January, 2000, ₹30,000/- on 1st February, 2000. This is
 further corroborated by the opinion of PW-51 who proved hand-
 writing of the appellant on the cheques Ex.PW-51/158 to 176 except CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 110 of 177 Ex.PW-51/163 for withdrawal of ₹1,06,000/- on 5th February, 1999
 which was in the handwriting of Y.P. Sharma. Thus, the first set of
 allegations stands proved beyond reasonable doubt against the
 appellant. 13.4. The second set of allegation against the appellant is of deposit of
 three cheques in his account being account No. 9975, Syndicate
 Bank, R.K. Puram. This allegation is proved by the prosecution by
 examining M. Jinarajadasa, (PW-11) Manager, Syndicate Bank who
 was posted as such in the year 2001 who exhibited his signatures on
 the production-cum-seizure memo dated 11th May, 2001 as Ex.PW-
 11/A. He further proved the certified copies of the account opening
 form of account No. 9975 and specimen signature card of appellant
 vide Ex.PW-11/B and PW-11/C respectively. He also produced the
 certified copy of the statement of account duly signed by S.C.
 Chhabra, the then Branch Manager and initialed by him vide Ex.PW-
 11/D. He also proved the three original credit slips which he had
 handed-over to the CBI vide Ex.PW-11/E to G. He further deposed
 that this account was opened on 6th April, 1999 and was introduced
 by Y.P. Sharma who held account No. 9580. The statement of
 account Ex.PW-11/D is duly certified in terms of Section 2A of the
 Act and thus can be read in evidence. As per the statement of
 account of the appellant with the Syndicate Bank, R.K. Puram
 Branch, sums of ₹45,000/- on 26th May, 1999, ₹1,79,256/- on 2nd
 July, 1999 and ₹49,458/- on 30th October, 1999 were credited to his
 account. As noted above, the three original pay-in-slips in regard to
 these credit entries were exhibited vide Ex.PW-11/E to 11/G and the CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 111 of 177 opinion on this count was also rendered by the handwriting expert
 PW-51. Thus from the evidence of M. Jinarajadasa and the
 handwriting expert prosecution has proved beyond reasonable doubt
 the second set of allegation against the appellant.
13.5. In respect of the third set of allegation that four cheques were issued
 on account of the LTC bills in the name of non-existing entities
 namely Shiv Sagar CE, Shiv Sagar Director and Shiv Sagar Assistant
 Director, prosecution has examined A.S. Gautam (PW-25). He
 deposed that he was posted and functioning as Senior Accounts
 Officer in the P&AO of CWC with effect from April, 2001 to August
 2002 and as a Senior Accounts Officer, his duties in general were to
 process the bills submitted by the DDO by checking the same with
 the various accounts manuals and passing the same if found in order.
 He explained the procedure in respect of passing of the bills. After
 seeing the documents he stated that document (D-487) was a LTC
 advance bill along with the sanction order of LTC amount of
 ₹72,000/- in favour of the appellant and his family members. He
 further identified (D-488) as another LTC bill dated 16th September,
 1999 for a sum of ₹54,000/- in favour of the appellant along with
 which a sanction order dated 15th September, 1999 was enclosed in
 favour of the appellant and his family members. He also identified
 document (D-489) another LTC bill dated 5th January, 2000 for a
 sum of ₹62,450/- in favour of the appellant along with a sanction
 order dated 4th January, 2000 in favour of the appellant and his
 family members. He also identified document (D-486) another LTC
 bill dated 21st May, 1999 for a sum of ₹45,000/- in favour of the CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 112 of 177 appellant along with a sanction order dated 20th May, 1999 in favour
 of the appellant and his family members. As noted above, from the
 statement of account of the appellant, amounts of ₹72,000/-,
 ₹54,000/-, ₹62,450/- and ₹45,000/- stood credited to the account
 when as per the rules he was entitled to only one LTC in a block
 period of 2 -4 years. The only challenge of learned counsel for the
 appellant to the testimony of A.S. Gautam is that in the voucher
 number 2200 signature of Assistant Account Officer does not figure
 and voucher number 2443 is supported by carbon copy of sanction
 order, however the witness has not been cross-examined on these
 aspects when he appeared in the witness box as PW-25. Thus, the
 allegation of the prosecution that the appellant was a part of the
 larger conspiracy wherein on the basis of fake bills and sanction
 orders, cheques were got prepared which were credited to his account
 as well has also been proved beyond reasonable doubt by the
 prosecution. 13.6. The fourth allegation against the appellant is also in continuation with
 the third allegation that after the bills relating to LTC advances were
 prepared and supporting documents were sent along with fake
 sanction orders, the same were credited to the account of the
 appellant who withdrew the same and shared it with Y.P. Sharma.
 As noted above, cheque No. 619620 dated 5th February, 1999 for a
 sum of ₹1,06,000/- was withdrawn from the account of the appellant
 by Y.P. Sharma. Thus the allegations of the prosecution stands
 proved beyond reasonable doubt against the appellant. 13.7. For the discussion aforesaid this Court finds no infirmity in the
 conviction of the appellant for offences punishable under Sections
 403 IPC and 120B read with Section 403 / 409 IPC. 14. Crl.A. 280/2016 - Jeet Ram Sharma v. CBI (A-9 ) : Further no evidence has been led to show that the appellant encashed
 four accounts payee cheques fraudulently issued by P&AO, CWC for
 a sum of ₹2,98,844/- in his account maintained by State Bank of
 India, R.K. Puram. 14.2. Learned counsel for the CBI submits that the appellant was working
 as Junior Computer Operator in the Account Section - III of CWC
 during the relevant period. A bill dated 13 th January, 1999 for a sum
 of ₹80,325/- was submitted by the appellant along with the
 photocopy of bill of Escorts Heart and Research Institute, Okhla in
 the name of Bhagwati Sharma, mother of appellant. The bill was not
 supported by any sanction order, however, N.R. Suman (A-16)
 approved the said bill which fact stands proved by the opinion of the CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 114 of 177 hand-writing expert. Further, Chetan Mukund Pandit (PW-35)
 proved that the supporting documents with the bill were forged and
 fabricated. R.C. Tully (PW-26) proved that though it did not contain
 any sanction but the bill format indicated that the same was signed by
 co-accused C. Manjhi. Further four cheques for a sum of ₹80,325/-
 ₹1,04,029/-, ₹64,939/- and ₹49,5498/- were deposited in the account
 of the appellant. 14.3. In respect of the first allegation regarding submission and claim of a
 forged medical bill in the name of the mother of the appellant,
 prosecution examined Chetan Mukund Pandit (PW-35) who deposed
 that he hailed from Central Water Engineering Service and was
 working in CWC as member till his retirement in the year 2012.
 Since he had some medical problem during his tenure, he got his
 treatment from Escorts Hospital in the year 1998. He submitted a
 medical claim on 25th April, 1998 for reimbursement of medical
 expenses vide document (D-561) for a sum of ₹1,25,785/- exhibited
 as Ex.PW-35/A which was accompanied by photocopies of discharge
 summary, application, I-card and registration card of Escorts Heart
 Institute exhibited as Ex.PW-35/B1 to B4. He was reimbursed a sum
 of ₹1,25,785/- along with further claim of ₹13,800/- totaling to
 ₹1,38,935/-. He also identified his signatures across the revenue
 stamp in the acquittance register (D-611). He further deposed that
 the claim bill of ₹1,25,785/- vide (D-562) in the name of Smt.
 Bhagwati Sharma W/o late R.R. Sharma was in the name of a female
 but as against the column of age "male" was written and the claim
 was supported by the same documents that were submitted by him in CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 115 of 177 respect of his claim for reimbursement with fabrication by putting a
 different name of the claimant as Smt. Bhagwati Sharma. He
 identified the fabrications in the said document vide Ex.PW-35/C-1
 and C-2. The only cross-examination on behalf of the appellant was
 whether Chetan Mukund Pandit knew appellant to which he denied.
 It is thus evident that the testimony of Chetan Mukund Pandit has
 gone unchallenged. 14.4. Prosecution also examined R.C. Tully (PW-26) who deposed that the
 medical bill No. M-1393/I in the name of J.R. Sharma running into
 four pages back to back vide (D-562) neither indicates the
 designation of the person nor contains any sanction. However the
 bill format indicates that as against a claim of ₹1,25,785/- bill for
 ₹80,325/- was prepared and he identified the signature of C. Manjhi
 at point 'A' on the bill format Ex.PW-26/I. Further PW-51 identified
 the handwriting of the appellant on Ex.PW-26/I, the medical claim
 for a sum of ₹1,25,785/- in the name of Smt.Bhagwati, mother of the
 claimant. Thus the first allegation against the appellant that a false
 medical claim was raised on the strength of forged documents stands
 proved beyond reasonable doubt by the prosecution.
14.5. The second set of allegation against the appellant as noted above is
 deposit of amount of ₹80,325/- as against the false medical bills
 besides ₹1,04,029/-, ₹64,339/- and ₹49,548/- in his account. In this
 regard certified copy of the account opening form of account No.
 9446 of Syndicate Bank, R.K. Puram, pay-in-slips dated 14th August,
 1999 and 8th April, 1999 indicating deposit of a sum of ₹49,548/- and
 ₹1,04,029/- vide Ex.PW-54/D2 and Ex.PW-54/D respectively were CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 116 of 177 proved by PW-54. Though M. Jinarajadasa (PW-11) appeared in the
 witness box but he did not depose about the transactions. Thus it will
 have to be seen whether from the testimony of PW-54 and PW-51 the
 allegations of the prosecution stand proved. PW-54 also proved vide
 Ex.PW-54/ZX a letter from the bank dated 30th August, 2005 which
 stated that though the statement of account was provided, however
 the bank could not retrieve the statement of account from 1st January,
 1999 to 31st January, 1999 nor the pay-in-slip for ₹80,325/- dated
 23rd January, 1998. Thus even though the prosecution proved that a
 cheque for a sum of ₹80,325/- (D-72) was prepared in favour of the
 appellant, it could not prove that the sum of ₹80,325/- was deposited
 in his account. The prosecution however proved deposit of two
 amounts of ₹49,548/- and ₹1,04,029/- in the account of the appellant
 in view of the endorsements on the two pay-in-slips Ex.PW-54/D2
 and Ex.PW-54/D for which the appellant rendered no explanation.
14.6. Prosecution having proved beyond reasonable doubt the first
 allegation and partially the second, conviction of the appellant for
 offences punishable under Sections 471/403 and 120B read with
 403/409 IPC is upheld. 15. Crl.A. 241/2016 - B.M. Ghosh v. CBI (A-10 ) : Handwriting and signatures of the appellant on the application form
 claiming refund attached with the above-mentioned bill have been
 duly proved by the report of the hand-writing expert PW-51. R.C.
 Tully (PW-26) proved the procedure to claim reimbursement of
 medical bills, sanction orders and the claim sent to the account
 department for preparation of the bill. He also proved copy of the
 medical bill in the name of the appellant and that a claim for
 ₹1,20,000/- was raised which bill was duly signed by DDO. Further
 Ex.PW-51/17 was the original AIIMS bill for total ankle joint
 replacement along with other bills in the name of Amandeep/ Aman
 and vide Ex.PW-54/Z/17 AIIMS responded that Subhra Ghosh was CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 118 of 177 neither admitted in the hospital nor was a payment of ₹1,20,000/-
 made. Vijay Kumar Sethi (PW-34) bank official from UCO Bank
 proved the bank account opening form, specimen signature card,
 attested computerized copy of the statement of account and the pay-
 in-slip vide Ex.PW-34/B-1 to B-3 respectively besides the
 production-cum-seizure memo vide Ex.PW-34/A by which these
 documents were seized. Further Kanhaiya Lal, Assistant Manager
 (PW-1) State Bank of India, R.K. Puram Branch proved the
 production-cum-seizure memo in respect of the bank account of the
 appellant. However, the UCO Bank was not able to retrieve the
 statement of account for the relevant period. 15.3. In respect of the allegation of preparing a fake medical claim in the
 name of the wife of the appellant Smt. Subhra Ghosh, prosecution
 examined R.C. Tully (PW-26) who was then working in the CWC as
 Section Officer. He explained the procedure regarding
 reimbursement of medical claim stating that the employees after
 availing treatment either at Government hospital or private hospital
 recognized under CGHS preferred the claims to the respective
 administrative sections. These claims were then processed as per the
 relevant package deal rates and a sanction order was issued for
 reimbursement. Copies of the sanction orders were sent to the
 respective Account Section along with the claim in duplicate. The
 Account Section then prepared a bill which was signed by the DDO
 and sent to the P&AO. The P&AO would pass the bill and issue the
 cheque for the amount either in the name of the DDO or in the name
 of the individual as per the request sent along with the bill. The CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 119 of 177 amount was then disbursed to the individual either by way of cash or
 cheque, obtaining his signatures on the cheque acquittance register.
 In case the payment was made by cash an acquittance roll was
 prepared by the respective Accounts Section, signed by the DDO and
 then sent to the cashier to disburse the amount after obtaining the
 signatures on the acquittance of the individual on a revenue stamp if
 required. R.C. Tully vide Ex.PW-26/Z identified (D-560) the
 medical bill No. M-1141/III dated 15th January, 2004 in the name of
 the appellant running into four pages back to back. The bill did not
 indicate the designation of the person but a claim was raised for
 ₹1,20,000/-. It did not contain any sanction but the bill format
 indicated that the bill for ₹1,20,000/- was prepared. As noted in the
 procedure, only after sanction order was prepared a bill could be
 prepared. R.C. Tully also identified the signatures of C. Manjhi (A- 2) at point 'A' on the bill format Ex.PW-26/Z. He also exhibited the
 letter dated 7th September, 1998 vide Ex.PW-26/A duly signed by
 Shri D. Vidyarthi, the then Under Secretary, Government of India
 permitting B.M. Ghosh to carry on the treatment of his wife from
 AIIMS. The handwriting expert (PW-51) proved the signature of
 N.R. Suman on the bill and the handwriting and signature of
 appellant on the application form. Further vide Ex.PW-51/15 and
 51/16 the handwriting expert identified the handwriting of the
 appellant on the reimbursement certificate for indoor patient and
 certificate 'B' respectively as attached with the bill. Ex.PW-51/17
 the original bill from AIIMS for total ankle joint replacement was in
 the name of Amandeep/ Aman and not Subhra Ghosh. Thus from the CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 120 of 177 evidence of these witnesses and the documents exhibited prosecution
 has been able to prove beyond reasonable doubt that a fake medical
 claim was got sanctioned by the appellant. 15.4. With respect to the deposit of five cheques issued by P&AO of CWC
 amounting to ₹3,53,953/- in the accounts maintained at State Bank of
 India and UCO Bank, R.K. Puram during the period 1st March, 1999
 to 30th December, 1999 which included the two cheques for
 ₹1,20,000/- and ₹74,874/- the prosecution examined Kanhaiya Lal
 (PW-1) bank official of State Bank of India, R.K. Puram who only
 proved the production-cum-seizure memo Ex.P-1/1 vide which the
 attested copy of the account opening form of account No. 29933
 State Bank of India. R.K. Puram, certified copy of the statement of
 account, original credit voucher dated 8th December, 1999 for
 ₹60,000/- were seized. However, PW-1 did not exhibit the certified
 copy of the statement of account which would have shown the credit
 entries, as he exhibited only the seizure memo and not the statement
 of account. Moreover, though claimed in the seizure memo that
 certified copy of the statement of account has been obtained,
 however the statement of account on record as shown by learned
 counsel for the CBI is not certified in terms of Section 2A of the Act
 and hence not admissible in evidence. Thus, the prosecution has
 failed to prove credit entry of ₹60,000/- in the account of the
 appellant in State Bank of India, R.K. Puram. 15.5. Vijay Kumar Sethi, (PW-34) Assistant Manager UCO Bank exhibited
 the account opening form in respect of account No. 6704 in the name
 of the appellant at UCO Bank, R.K. Puram Branch, besides his CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 121 of 177 specimen signature card and the attested computerized copy of the
 statement of account for the period 12th June, 1999 to 3rd December,
 2000 vide Ex.PW-34/B1 to B3. Attested copy of the statement of
 bank account does not relate to the relevant period i.e. January 1999
 to April, 1999 as the same could not be retrieved due to technical
 problem. However, Vijay Kumar Sethi exhibited the pay-in-slips
 dated 12th February, 1999 and 27th February, 1999 for a sum of
 ₹1,20,000/- and ₹74,874/- respectively and a debit cheque No.
 324721 dated 16th February, 1999 as PW-34/B4 to B6 collectively.
 Vijay Kumar Sethi also proved the debit cheques Nos. 324723,
 324729 and 324735 dated 3rd March, 1999 for ₹45,000/-, ₹7000/-
 and ₹20,000/- respectively which were also exhibited as Ex.PW-
 34/B6 collectively. Further PW-51 the handwriting expert vide his
 opinion identified the handwriting of the appellant on the debit
 cheques. B.V. Jagdish Kumar (PW-50) who was then posted as LDC
 in the Account Section -III of CWC exhibited the pay bill register for
 the period 1999 to 2000 vide Ex.PW-50/F wherein the entries on the
 left page were made by him, however he denied that the entries on
 the right side of the pages were in his hand-writing and stated that the
 same were insertions. Though not on the basis of bank account
 statement, the prosecution has been able to prove beyond reasonable
 doubt that two cheques for ₹1,20,000/- and ₹74,874/- fraudulently
 issued from the P&AO of the CWC were deposited by the appellant,
 through the pay-in-slips dated 12th February, 1999 and 27th February,
 1999 respectively in his UCO Bank, R.K. Puram Branch account No.
 6704 on the basis of the evidence of Vijay Kumar Sethi and that an CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 122 of 177 amount of ₹1,20,000/- was reimbursed to the appellant on the basis
 of a fake medical bill. 15.6. Thus the prosecution have proved beyond reasonable doubt that the
 appellant committed offences punishable under Section 471 , 403 IPC
 and 120B read with 403/409 IPC . 16. Crl.A. 134/2016 - Om Prakash v. CBI (A-11 ) : The appellant cannot be held responsible for the misappropriation as
 he was not even aware of the source of cheques being deposited by
 J.P. Sharma in his accounts who was the Deputy Director in CWC
 whereas the appellant was only a draftsman. The admitted case of
 the prosecution itself is that even the cheque depositing slips were
 prepared and filled by J.P. Sharma in his own handwriting. When
 every action was done by J.P. Sharma without the knowledge of the
 appellant, he cannot be held guilty with the aid of Section 120B IPC
 as there was no meeting of minds. No benefit has been derived by
 the appellant directly or indirectly. Qua the allegation No.7 relating
 to Y.P. Sharma a finding has been returned by the Trial Court that the
 appellant Om Prakash is not connected with the 7th transaction, hence
 the same cannot be pressed by the CBI. Reliance is placed on the
 decision reported as 2007 ( 3) JCC 2318 Shreya Jha Vs. CBI wherein
 the accused was discharged in a transaction where his account was
 utilized without his knowledge and the accused was not a
 beneficiary. 16.2. As regards the sentence it is submitted that the appellant has been
 awarded 5 years rigorous imprisonment for offences punishable CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 124 of 177 under Section 120B read with Section 403 / 409 IPC and 1 year
 rigorous imprisonment for offence punishable under Section 403 IPC
 when no substantive offence under Section 403 IPC has been
 committed by the appellant. Learned Trial Court maintained no
 parity while awarding the sentence as similarly situated convicts like
 Jeet Ram, B.M. Ghosh, Yesudanam have been awarded sentence of
 rigorous imprisonment for 1 year for offences punishable under
 Section 120B read with Section 403 / 409 IPC. Even Natha Ram
 Suman who is stated to be one of the main accused by the CBI has
 been awarded rigorous imprisonment for a period of 1 year only for
 offences punishable under Section 120B read with 403/409 IPC and
 also under Section 13(1)(d) punishable under Section 13(1)(2) of the
 PC Act. It is further submitted that the offence punishable under Section 409 IPC is the aggravated form of Section 403 IPC and the
 appellant cannot be convicted and sentenced for both the offences i.e.
 Section 403 and 409 simultaneously. 16.3. Learned counsel for the CBI submits that the bill dated 19th February,
 1999 exhibited as Ex.PW-51/11-14 submitted under the signature of
 Y.P. Sharma (A-1) was cleared and cheques issued which were duly
 signed by S.K. Aggarwal (A-17). The handwriting of both Y.P.
 Sharma on the bill and S.K. Aggarwal on the cheques has been
 proved beyond reasonable doubt by the opinion of the hand-writing
 expert PW-51. The original cheques and register of demand drafts
 were seized from P.K. Rooprai (PW-36) and duly exhibited. The
 register of demand draft of CWC i.e. acquittance register contains the
 relevant entries, the amounts so credited into the account of the CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 125 of 177 appellant where after the cheques were withdrawn by J.P. Sharma
 (A-6). In response to questions put to him under Section 313 Cr.P.C.
 the appellant admitted that cheques in question were deposited by
 J.P. Sharma in his accounts and that he paid some specified amounts
 to J.P. Sharma post-deposit. The defence of the appellant is that he
 acted under the pressure of his senior which cannot be accepted as no
 public servant can commit an offence even though pressurized by his
 superior. Prosecution having proved that the amount was deposited
 in the bank account of the appellant, onus shifted on him to prove the
 facts especially within his knowledge under Section 106 Evidence
 Act. Further in view of the explanation rendered under Section 313 Cr.P.C. which can be taken as an additional link in the chain of
 circumstances prosecution has been able to prove its case beyond
 reasonable doubt. Two of its star witnesses to prove the case of the
 prosecution i.e. Ramesh Chander, Manager Punjab National Bank,
 R.K. Puram and S.K. Jindia AAO, P&AO, CWC could not be
 examined as the first one passed away before he could be examined
 and the second one shifted to London and thus could not be served.
 In the absence of above primary evidence, the prosecution was within
 its right to lead secondary evidence which was not objected to at the
 time of recording of the evidence. 16.4. Case of the prosecution against the appellant is that four cheques
 bearing No. 228394, 230010, 232492 and 237231 for a sum of
 ₹28,819/-, ₹23,819/-, ₹1,10,568/- and ₹54,202/- respectively were
 credited into the account of the appellant. The original account
 opening form, three original pay-in-slips and attested copy of the CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 126 of 177 statement of account No.5715 were seized from Ramesh Chander,
 Deputy Manager Punjab National Bank, R.K. Puram vide Ex.PW-
 54/T, however before Ramesh Chander could be examined, he passed
 away. Since Shri Ramesh Chander had passed away, the
 investigating officer PW-54 exhibited not only the seizure memo
 vide Ex.PW-54/T but the account opening form in the name of the
 appellant bearing account No. 5715 but also certified copy of the
 statement of account, pay-in-slips and cheques from the Punjab
 National Bank, Sewa Bhawan, R.K. Puram, New Delhi which were
 proved as D-291 to D-295 and D-285 to D-286 respectively and
 collectively exhibited as Ex.PW-54/Z/42. Copy of the statement of
 bank account No.5715 is a certified copy in terms of Section 2A of
 the Act depicting credit entries for a sum of ₹ 28,819/-, ₹23,819/-,
 ₹1,10,456/- and ₹54,202/- into the account of the appellant.
16.5. Having led the evidence as noted above prosecution also relies upon
 the non-explanation of the appellant to the incriminating
 circumstance put to him under Section 313 Cr.P.C. Question
 No.1,3,4,5,9 & 11 asked from the appellant and his answers thereto
 are as under: 17.1. Learned Counsel for the appellant contends that the prosecution case
 against the appellant is based upon the testimony of 3 witnesses
 namely, Suraj Lal (PW-13), T.K. Sarkar (PW-23) and R.S. Bedi
 (PW-54). Suraj Lal who is the Assistant Cashier cum Clerk in State
 Bank of India, R.K. Puram Branch deposed that all the money
 deposited in the account of the appellant was transferred to his
 account from Government account. He does not depose about the
 five cheques which were alleged to have been deposited in the
 account. Furthermore, as per the prosecution case, the period of
 conspiracy was 1998 to 2000, however no entry of deposit between
 August, 1998 and March, 2000 has been proved. Suraj Lal in his
 cross examination deposed, "it is correct that no entry is there as per
 statement of account Ex. PW-13/B after 06.03.1998". Thus the
 appellant cannot be convicted for the alleged conspiracy.
17.2. T.K. Sarkar who was Deputy Manager in State Bank of India, Main
 Branch, Rohtak also does not depose about any entry in the Rohtak
 Branch of the Bank. R.S. Bedi, Investigating Officer, admitted in his
 examination-in-chief as well as cross examination that neither the
 specimen of the handwriting of the appellant was taken nor the
 opinion of expert was sought. Furthermore, the case of the
 prosecution was that the alleged five cheques were deposited in the
 account of the appellant by J.P. Sharma but the question put to the
 appellant under Section 313 Cr. P.C. was that five cheques were CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 130 of 177 deposited by the appellant in his bank account and misappropriated.
 Hence the circumstance cannot be used against the appellant.
17.3. Learned Counsel on behalf of the CBI submits that from the evidence
 of investigating officer who seized the cheque paid register from
 M.E. Haque (PW-24) and the Acquittance Roll for the period, the
 deposition of cheques in the account of appellant has been proved
 beyond reasonable doubt. Further, Kanahiya Lal Kashyap (PW-1)
 proved the original account opening form, three original pay-in-slips
 and attested copy of the statement of account No.30221. Suraj Lal
 also proved certified copy of the statement of account No.30221 vide
 Ex.PW-13/1 and has deposed about the disputed entries. Learned
 Trial Court rightly drew the presumption under Section 106 of the
 Evidence Act once entries in the bank account of the account holder
 were proved. Though a deposit of a sum of ₹3,31,938/- by five
 cheques was made, the withdrawals were only for a sum of ₹72,000/-
 . Thus the appellant was a beneficiary of the larger conspiracy
 involving fraudulent transactions. 17.4. Contention of learned counsel for the CBI is that the investigating
 officer PW-54 exhibited the cheque payment delivery register/
 cheque acquittance register vide Ex.PW-54/Z-67 collectively duly
 seized from M. Haque (PW-24) i.e. D-536, D-610, D-612 and D-613.
 Though M. Haque does not depose about this seizure however no
 objection as to the mode of proof was raised when these documents
 were being exhibited by the investigating officer. PW-26 R.C. Tully
 though proves the procedure however did not depose about the
 Acquittance Register which fact is proved by the testimony of the CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 131 of 177 investigating officer who deposes about the seizure of the
 Acquittance Roll vide Ex.PW-54/DX. Further PW-26 stated that the
 Register and Acquittance Roll should have the entries. The
 investigating officer PW-54 deposed that he seized original cheques
 from P.K. Rooprai PW-36 vide seizure memo Ex.PW-54/G2. Suraj
 Lal (PW-13) the star witness of the prosecution who was working as
 a Assistant Cashier-cum-Clerk in State Bank of India, R.K. Puram
 Branch exhibited the certified copy of the statement of bank account
 No.30221 in the name of the appellant vide Ex.PW-13/A. All the
 entries of the account deposed to by him in connection with account
 No.30221 related to the period 27th September, 1996 to 23rd
 September, 2008. Suraj Lal (PW-13) also exhibited the certified
 copy of the account opening form of the account of the appellant vide
 Ex.PW-13/B. PW-29 B.S. Yadav also explained the procedure in the
 Pay and Accounts office of the CWC. Further the prosecution has
 exhibited the deposit slips in relation to the five cheques D-683 to D-
 687 for a sum of ₹45,574/-, ₹1,04,258/-, ₹64,560/-, ₹45,574/- and
 ₹71,972/- vide Ex.PW-51/131 to Ex.PW-51/135 respectively.
 Prosecution has also exhibited the two cheques bearing No.231611
 dated 31st July, 1998 and 239724 dated 24th May, 1999 vide Ex.PW-
 51/31 and Ex.PW-51/33 respectively. No objection to the mode of
 proof of the documents was being taken when PW-51 exhibited the
 documents. The fact that 5 Government cheques for a sum of
 ₹45,574/-, ₹1,04,258/-, ₹64,560/-, ₹45,574/-, ₹71,972/- also stand
 proved by the statement of account of the appellant proved vide
 Ex.PW-13/A which is certified copy in terms of Section 2A of the CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 132 of 177 Act in respect of account No.30221, State Bank of India, R.K.
 Puram. Prosecution has also exhibited the cheque Ex.PW-51/136
 whereby a sum of ₹72,000/- stands withdrawn as per the statement of
 account Ex.PW-13/A on 17th January, 2000. Though the prosecution
 has also proved the account opening form and statement of account
 in respect of the account No.138705 of the appellant vide Ex.PW-
 23/B and PW-23/C, however the five cheques have not been
 deposited in the said account. 17.5. The two questions put to the appellant i.e. question No.8 & 9 relating
 to the two cheques and their answers in the 313 Cr.P.C . statement are
 as under: 17.6. Contention of learned counsel for the appellant is that though the five
 cheques were deposited in his account by J.P. Sharma, however the
 question put to the appellant under Section 313 Cr.P.C. was that five CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 133 of 177 cheques were deposited by the appellant in his bank account and
 misappropriated. As noted above this circumstance has been put to
 the appellant in two questions. In question No.8 the learned Judge
 put to the appellant that he had procured five cheques fraudulently by
 co-accused J.P. Sharma from P&AO, CWC during the period 3rd
 August, 1998 to 17th January, 2000 and got the same deposited in the
 bank account of the appellant. It is thus clear that deposit into the
 account of the appellant is attributed to J.P. Sharma. Though in
 question No.9 it is wrongly put to the appellant that he had deposited
 the said five cheques in bank account, however question No.9 gets
 clarified from question No.8 where it has been specifically
 mentioned that J.P. Sharma get the same deposited in the account of
 the appellant. Appellant has duly answered the two questions and no
 prejudice has been demonstrated on this count. 17.7. In view of the discussion aforesaid the prosecution has proved beyond
 reasonable doubt that a sum of ₹3,31,938/- by five cheques was
 deposited in account No. 30221, State Bank of India, R.K. Puram of
 the appellant which was beyond the entitlement of the appellant and
 the appellant has failed to render any explanation thereof. Therefore,
 the prosecution has proved beyond reasonable doubt that the
 appellant committed offences punishable under Section 403 and 120 IPC read with Section 403 / 409 IPC. 18. Crl.A. 240/2016 - Yesudanam v. CBI (A-14) : A cheque issued by S.K. Aggarwal (A-17) in favour of appellant
 was also exhibited vide Ex.PW-51/55. The said cheque was
 produced by P.K. Roop Rai, (PW-36) Senior Accounts Officer, CWC
 through production-cum-seizure memo Ex.PW-54/F1. Statement of
 account was seized from PW-1 and proved by PW-54 vide Ex.PW-
 54/Z-46 showing a credit entry in the account of the appellant.
 Appellant in his statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C. admitted that
 the cheque in question was deposited in his account and he had paid a
 specified amount to J.P. Sharma after the deposit. His defence is that
 he acted under the pressure of his senior J.P. Sharma thereby
 admitting his guilt. 18.3. Certified copy of the statement of account of the appellant for savings
 account No. 46147 has been proved by the investigating officer PW-
 54 vide Ex.PW-54/Z-46. The said statement of account is admissible
 in terms of Section 2A of the Act. As the document is admissible in
 evidence, the mode of exhibition of the same being done by the
 investigating officer (PW-54) ought to have been objected at the time
 of proving the document. The said objection having not been taken
 during trial, the appellant cannot now object to the mode of proof of
 the document. Perusal of Ex.PW-54/F1 shows a credit entry for a
 sum of ₹1,22,000/- by CWC cheque No.237424. Further by the
 opinion of the handwriting expert it has been proved that the cheque
 in question was in the handwriting of S.K. Aggarwal (A-17). Even
 though the pay bill register has not been proved by R.C. Tully (PW- 26) and what is proved is the seizure memo of the pay bill register,
 from the certified copy of statement of account of the appellant an
 entry by way of a Government cheque for a sum of ₹1,22,000/- in his
 account having been proved, onus shifted on the appellant under Section 106 of the Evidence Act to state the facts specially within his
 knowledge. The prosecution having discharged its initial burden, the
 explanation of the appellant in his statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C. can be taken into consideration. 18.4. The answers of the appellant to questions No.3, 4 & 5 in his statement
 under Section 313 Cr.P.C. statement are as under: 18.5. Prosecution has proved that a Government cheque Ex.PW-51/55
 issued by S.K. Aggarwal (A-17) in favour of the appellant for a sum
 of `1,22,000/- was deposited on 8th March, 1999 in his bank account
 as is evident from the statement of bank account proved vide Ex.PW-
 54/Z-46. On the very next date, appellant withdrew an amount of
 `91,000/- by a self-cheque. As per the statement of account of the
 appellant, the two entries of credit and debit are the only entries for
 major amounts, rest all entries are of smaller amounts in
 commensurate to appellant's pay and allowances. There is no
 explanation whatsoever of the remaining amount i.e. `31,000/-. The
 explanation of the appellant that it was at the insistence of J.P.
 Sharma who was his senior, cannot absolve him of the offence
 committed. Thus, prosecution has proved beyond reasonable doubt
 the charge against the appellant and his conviction for offences
 punishable under Sections 403 and 120B read with 403/409 IPC . 19. Crl.A. 347/2016 - Hayat Singh v. CBI (A-15) : was prepared in the name of H. Singh, Deputy Director, CWC again
 by C. Manjhi which was in the handwriting of J.K. Singhal. Further
 noting on the said bill was of N.R. Suman whose handwriting stands
 proved by the opinion of the handwriting expert. Statement of
 account of the appellant has been proved by cogent evidence which
 shows credit entries for a sum of ₹15,000/- on 20th May, 1999,
 ₹65,000/- on 2nd December, 1999 and ₹74,500/- on 23rd October,
 1999 where after withdrawals by cheque and in cash are duly
 reflected in the statement of account of the appellant. Thus, merely
 because it has not been proved that the appellant signed the bill or
 processed the same it cannot be said that he was not a part of the
 conspiracy and thus liable to be acquitted or that he acted on the
 dictates of his superiors. 19.3. Allegation against the appellant who was working as a peon in CWC,
 New Delhi is that three cheques issued by the Pay & Accounts Office
 amounting to a sum of `1,54,500/- were deposited in his account
 during May 1999 to December 1999. Though the prosecution proved
 only one cheque deposited vide Ex.PW-51/47 for a sum of `15,000/-
 by S.K. Aggarwal (A-17) in the name of Hayat Singh in his bank
 account maintained at State Bank of India, R.K. Puram, a perusal of CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 139 of 177 the copy of the statement of bank account of the appellant Ex.PW-
 46/D duly certified as per Section 2A of the Act reveals three
 deposits which were for major amount and withdrawals. Besides the
 three major deposits i.e. of `15,000/-, `74,500/- and `65,000/- on
 20th May, 1999, 23rd October, 1999 and 2nd December, 1999
 respectively amounts credited into the account of the appellant are of
 minimal except one entry for a sum of `9,000/-. Prosecution has thus
 proved deposit of `1,54,500/- and a withdrawal of `1,10,000/-
 beyond the income of the appellant which the appellant was required
 to explain being facts specially within his knowledge. The
 prosecution has also proved that one cheque Ex.PW-51/47 amounting
 to `15,000/- was issued by S.K. Aggarwal (A-17) Pay & Accounts
 Officer whose signatures have been proved by the opinion of PW-51
 in the name of the appellant. 19.4. Explanation of the appellant in his statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C. is that J.K. Singhal used to bring cheques to him and never
 gave satisfactory reply as to how the cheques were prepared in the
 name of the appellant whereas he never demanded cheques from the
 office or they were due against any official dues. Every cheque that
 had been deposited in his account was without his knowledge and the
 proceeds of the cheque were given back to accused J.K. Singhal. He
 never used any money out of the cheques so deposited. He was just a
 peon and was acting on the directions of accused J.K. Singhal and
 other co-accused who were his senior officers. At times he refused to
 withdraw the money and file a complaint to higher officers to which
 he was always threatened that he would loose his job in case anybody CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 140 of 177 was informed about their misdeeds and he continued to obey their
 directions with respect to the cheques in question.
19.5. Explanation of the appellant that he never demanded cheques from
 the office or that they were deposited without his knowledge and the
 proceeds of the cheque were given back to J.K. Singhal deserves to
 be rejected. Out of the three cheques of the misappropriated amount
 i.e. ₹15,000/- on 20th May, 1999, ₹74,500/- on 23rd October, 1999
 and ₹65,000/- on 2nd December, 1999 major withdrawal for a sum of
 ₹60,000/- is on 25th October, 1999 i.e. immediately after the deposit
 of a sum of ₹74,500/-. Thus even if the said amount of ₹60,000/- has
 been returned to J.K. Singhal, besides this self-cheque there is
 withdrawal by 7 other self-cheques. Considering that the prosecution
 has been able to prove deposit of a sum of ₹1,54,500/- in the account
 of the appellant which was withdrawn by 8 self-cheques proved to be
 in the handwriting of appellant by the opinion of the handwriting
 expert coupled with the explanation of appellant, conviction of the
 appellant for offences punishable under Sections 403 IPC and 120B
 read with 403/409 IPC is upheld. 20. Crl.A. 847/2016 - Natha Ram Suman v. CBI (A-16) : examination admitted that appellant had not got deposited any
 misappropriated amount in his bank account. Despite there being no CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 141 of 177 evidence on record, the appellant has been convicted for offences
 punishable under Section 13(1)(d) read with 13(2) of the Prevention
 of Corruption Act , also under Section 120B IPC read with Section
 403 / 409 IPC and awarded rigorous imprisonment for a period of 1
 year on both the counts. 20.2. Learned counsel for the CBI contends that the case of the prosecution
 against the appellant is not that he is a beneficiary but that in
 conspiracy with other accused he fraudulently passed number of
 bills. The act of the appellant cannot be held to be mere negligence.
 Though the prosecution alleged that the appellant surreptitiously
 passed number of bills, however learned counsel for the CBI
 restricted the role of the appellant in passing 6 bills. The defence of
 the appellant that once bills which were duly sanctioned were
 presented to him, he was not required to see anything more but clear
 the same cannot be accepted. Learned counsel for the CBI submits
 that after sanction two kinds of bills i.e. LTC/ TCA and the medical
 bills used to come to the appellant. Even accepting that he had no
 mechanism to find out that the sanction was forged and fabricated,
 however in some cases appellant cleared the bills without their being
 any sanction, or sanction being for a different ailment which shows
 that he was a part of the conspiracy. 20.3. To prove the case against the appellant, prosecution examined R.C.
 Tully (PW-26) who deposed about the procedure regarding
 reimbursement of the medical claims or other bills as also noted in
 Crl.A.241/2016. The first bill allegedly passed by the appellant is
 one LTC bill (D-490) Ex.P-5 for a sum of ₹15,000/- in the name of CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 142 of 177 Hayat Singh (D/M Grade II) written in the handwriting of J.K.
 Singhal (A-4), cleared by the appellant who was the then Senior
 Accounts Officer, CWC and passed by S.K. Aggarwal without any
 sanction order. The handwriting of the appellant on the bill has been
 duly proved by the testimony of the handwriting expert (PW-51) and
 the bill has been exhibited by A.S. Gautam, (PW-25) Senior
 Accounts Officer in P&AO, CWC as Ex.P-5. A.S. Gautam deposed
 that D-490 and D-491, one being LTC bill dated 17th May, 1999 for a
 sum of ₹15,000/- in favour of Hayat Singh and another being TTA
 bill dated 1st December, 1999 for ₹65,000/- in favour of H. Singh
 along with sanction order (D-491) (Ex.P-7) dated 29th November,
 1999 in favour of H. Singh and his family members were cleared. It
 is thus apparent that the LTC bill for a sum of ₹15,000/- was cleared
 by the appellant without sanction order and the TTA bill for
 ₹65,000/- with sanction order in favour of one H.S. Singh, Deputy
 Director, when no such person existed or was posted as such.
 Further the TCA bills No.288 and 964 dated 7th June, 1999 and 16th
 September, 1999 for a sum of ₹72,000/- (D-487) (Ex.P-1) and
 ₹54,000/- (D-488) (Ex.P-B1) in the name of Shiv Sagar CE, Shiv
 Sagar Director and Shiv Sagar Assistant Director; were cleared
 without sanction order. A.S. Gautam (PW-25) also deposed that
 LTC bill dated 21st May, 1999 for a sum of ₹45,000/- i.e. (D-486)
 (Ex.P-10) was accompanied by a sanction order (Ex.P-11) (Pg 8127)
 dated 20th May, 1999. He exhibited the document as Ex.P-10 (D- 486) and P-11 (Sanction order). Further TCA No. 288 (D-487) and
 964 (D-488) bills for a sum of ₹72,000/- and ₹54,000/- are CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 143 of 177 accompanied by sanction orders Ex.P-2 and Ex.P-4 respectively. It is
 thus evident that in the same names different LTC and TCA bills
 were cleared despite an employee being entitled to one LTC in a
 period of two years or four years as per entitlement.
20.4. Sanction in respect of three TCA bills 288, 964 & 629 has been
 proved as Ex.P-2, P-4 and P-11 respectively. In respect of the
 medical claim of B.M. Ghosh for a sum of ₹1,20,000/- qua treatment
 of his wife Smt. Subra Ghosh, sanction order Ex.PW-26/K shows
 that the treatment was for neurological problems from AIIMS,
 however the Doctor's certificate issued was in respect of total ankle
 joint replacement. Thus, even if the sanction order was there, failure
 of the appellant to examine the necessary documents before passing
 the bill cannot be termed as mere negligence. No doubt, he had no
 mechanism to find out whether the document was forged but where a
 discrepancy is so writ large that the approval is for neurological
 problem whereas the treatment paper shows total ankle joint
 replacement, it is apparent that the sanction order was false and
 forged on the face of it and the appellant passing such a bill cannot
 be held to be merely negligent. In respect of the 6th bill relating to
 Jeet Ram Sharma, Junior Computer Operator, CWC original bill was
 produced as (D-561) vide Ex.PW-35/A. Evidence of Chetan
 Mukund Pandit (PW-35) an employee of CWC is relevant who stated
 that the photocopy of the document annexed with the claim of Smt.
 Bhagwati Sharma were the same on the basis of which he had
 claimed his medical reimbursement. R.C. Tully (PW-26) proved the
 medical bill No.M-1393/I in the name of J.R. Sharma running into CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 144 of 177 four pages back to back vide D-562 neither indicating the designation
 of the person nor the sanction order. Handwriting of the appellant as
 the person who passed the bill has been proved by the opinion of the
 handwriting expert (PW-51). Thus the contention of the appellant
 that he had no mechanism to find out whether the sanction was
 forged and fabricated is not substantiated as the bill was not
 supported by any sanction order. Further as noted in the appeal of
 Jeet Ram Sharma forgery and fabrication of the medical claim has
 been proved beyond reasonable doubt by the prosecution.
20.5. No doubt in a case where there is no mechanisim with the appellant to
 find out forgery, the appellant clearing the bills unknowingly cannot
 be held guilty of the offence with the aid of conspiracy but in a case
 where the documents on the face of it show that the claims have been
 changed and documents of one person utilized for another it cannot
 be said to be case of mere negligence but shows that the appellant
 was a part of the conspiracy. In view of the discussion aforesaid the
 appellant has been rightly convicted for offences punishable under Section 13(1)(d) read with 13(2) and 120B read with Section 403 / 409 IPC. 21. Crl.A. 150/2016 - S.K. Agarwal v. CBI (A-17 ) : Thus, the allegations of the prosecution that the cheques were issued
 without the bills are totally wrong and without any basis. Without a
 bill, a cheque could never be issued even as per statement of N.R.
 Meena, (PW-30) the Assistant Accounts Officer. N.R. Meena
 admitted that the procedure as noted above was the correct procedure
 and followed. Thus, the only role assigned to the appellant as P&AO
 was to verify the amount on the bills and the cheques and thereafter CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 146 of 177 sign the cheques. No investigation whatsoever has been carried out
 from the officials of the pre-check section and hence the prosecution
 is without any basis. There is no evidence led by the prosecution
 that the appellant was beneficiary of any of the transactions or that
 even one claim was cleared in the name of the appellant. The
 Investigating Officer R.S. Bedi (PW-54) in his cross-examination
 admitted that he did not produce the three important documents i.e.
 pseudonymous register, audit report of CAG and the report of the
 vigilance department of the CWC. The cheque writer N.R. Meena
 who is the main accused has not been arrayed as an accused and the
 appellant has been falsely implicated. It is not the case of the
 prosecution that in any of the 27 challans, handwriting was of the
 appellant. The Investigating Officer admitted that neither the
 appellant nor N.R. Suman deposited any misappropriated amount in
 their accounts. Though two cheque writers i.e. N.R. Meena PW-30
 and Rattan Lal PW-16 were examined as witnesses however third
 cheque writer was not examined as witness. 21.2. The two sets of oral allegations against the appellant beyond the
 documents are that on the instructions of the appellant, 5-6 cheques
 were prepared and after cheques were signed by the appellant, they
 were left with him for delivery. It is contended that these oral
 allegations are contrary to the record. 21.3. The allegations based on the documents against the appellant are that
 the cheques were received by the appellant for cancellation but were
 not reissued in those very names but in the name of DDO and that
 some drafts which were sent to the DDO were disbursed to non- employees and that the appellant signed cheques even in favour of
 non-employees. Learned counsel for the appellant states that it was
 on the request of the DDO that he used to prepare cheques in his
 name and not in the name of persons whose cheques were cancelled
 and since no requisition slips have been proved on record which
 would have shown the bona fide working of the appellant, the
 appellant cannot be convicted on this count. 21.4. As regard the second allegation based on documents, learned counsel
 contends that since there were 5000 employees working in the
 organization, it was difficult to know the name of each employee and
 since the cheques were being received through authorized channel
 after due verification, the appellant used to sign the same. Further
 the documents which would have proved the innocence of the
 appellant i.e. requisition slips and sanction letters etc. have also not
 been proved by the prosecution and it is contended that in the
 absence of any documentary or oral evidence, the conviction of the
 appellant be set aside. As regards the allegation in respect of
 issuance of cheque for a sum of `15000/- which was encashed from
 the account of Hayat Singh, it is contended that the DDO is the
 person responsible for the dispersal of the amount and beneficiary
 has to approach the DDO first and not the appellant. There is no
 evidence on record to show that there was a meeting of mind
 between the appellant and co-convicts and hence the appellant is
 liable to be acquitted. 21.5. Learned counsel for the CBI contends that appellant worked as Senior
 Accounts Officer in the capacity of P&AO of CWC from June 1995 CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 148 of 177 to February 2000. While working as P&AO in CWC his duties
 included re-checking of the pre-checked bills of CWC and other
 DDOs and issuing of cheques towards payment of such bills, after
 observing necessary formalities. N.R. Suman (A-16) Senior
 Accounts Officer was responsible for passing bills presented by DDO
 of CWC. Investigation reveals that majority of paid cheques and
 paid vouchers were missing. Y.P. Sharma posted in the accounts
 department used to collect cheques issued in the name of existing,
 non-existing staff and private persons. Cheque No. 277701 for a sum
 of ₹1,39,097/-was split and credited into account of J.P. Sharma, S.S.
 Naik and Bhagwan Singh. Original cheque and bill/ vouchers were
 not available. Further between 21st May, 1999 to 1st March, 2000
 nine fresh cheques for a total sum of ₹3,44,947/- were issued in
 favour of DDO-I, CWC in lieu of 21 account payee cheques issued in
 the name of various officers of CWC and after encashing the cheques
 J.K. Singhal disbursed the amount to those officers whose name did
 not figure in the aforesaid 21 account payee cheques. Fresh cheques
 were issued on the basis of ordinary slip prepared and initialled by
 Y.P. Sharma, counter-signed by C. Manjhi and these slips do not bear
 any dispatch or diary number. The allegations against the appellant
 are that he prepared several cheques without proper authorization/
 sanction or assisted in preparation of cheques in the name of fake
 individuals without proper bill, entries or prepared fresh cheques
 against old/ outdated cheques without following proper procedure
 deliberately. 21.6. Learned counsel for the CBI further contends that the defence of the
 appellant that he was merely a signatory of the cheques and papers
 were cleared by the "pre-check clearance" department which was
 manned by different persons is belied by the evidence led by the
 prosecution and the procedure prescribed in the Civil Accounts
 Manual (CAN) which traces its origin to Article 151 of the
 Constitution of India and is issued by the Controller General of
 Accounts. 21.7. Before dealing with the testimony of B.S. Yadav (PW-29) and N.R.
 Meena (PW-30) which proves the conspiracy/ involvement of the
 appellant in the conspiracy it would be relevant to discuss the
 testimony of A.S. Gautam (PW-25) who have deposed about the
 Civil Accounts Manual and the procedure prescribed to be followed.
 A.S. Gautam (PW-25) deposed that he was working as a Senior
 Accounts Officer in P&AO of CWC with effect from April 2001 to
 August 2001. He described the procedure for issuance of cheque in
 respect of the bill stating that the bills are submitted at the counter of
 P&AO by the DDO against which a token was issued to the DOO.
 The bill is then diaried at the counter of the P&AO and thereafter it is
 sent to the Payment Section. The bill is then scrutinized by the
 concerned accountant so as to see if it is in order i.e. whether it is
 made according to the Civil Accounts Manual. If the bill is found in
 order, it is submitted to the Assistant Accounts Officer who is the
 Section Incharge for payment. If it is not in order then it is returned
 back to the DDO. Thereafter, the Assistant Accounts Officer is
 supposed to examine the bill in terms of Civil Accounts Manual, CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 150 of 177 Receipt and Payments and GFR and on finding it in order, he signs
 on the pay order and the same is sent to the Senior Accounts Officer
 for approval/ signature. The bill with the pay order is sent back to
 the Assistant Accounts Officer and then it is routed to the Accounts
 Officer for preparation of cheque which is sent to the cheque Section.
 The cheque is prepared by the Cheque Clerk which is then put up
 before the Sr. Accounts Officer (not the one who earlier signed the
 pay order but the second one) for signatures. The cheque is then sent
 to the counter by the Cheque Clerk which is issued to the DDO
 concerned after retrieving the token issued. 21.8. Further Surender Kumar (PW-15) who had joined as an Accountant
 in the year 1995 in the CWC deposed that his duties were to prepare
 demand draft and to look after stationery. He identified the appellant
 as his Pay & Accounts Officer. He stated that the entry of the
 demand draft used to be made in the demand and drafts register
 which he exhibited as Ex.PW-15/A. He deposed that the entry at
 serial number 341 was in his handwriting and the DD was in the
 name of Kamal Sharma, in respect of cheque No. 241009 dated 14th
 July, 1999 and that the cheque was received by the appellant vide
 entry encircled in red at point 'A'. He deposed that against this
 cheque demand draft was prepared. He also identified the entry at
 serial No.562 in the name of Kamal Sharma for cheque No. 274744
 dated 29th September, 1999 against which demand draft was prepared
 for ₹67,445/- vide demand draft No. 848413 dated 1st October, 1999.
 He identified the entry of the demand draft to be in the handwriting
 of S.K. Aggarwal and that the demand draft was collected by Y.P. CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 151 of 177 Sharma. This witness has not been cross-examined on behalf of S.K.
 Aggarwal and thus his testimony has gone unchallenged.
21.9. The evidence of PW-29 and PW-30 besides explaining the procedure
 also shows the complicity of the appellant in the larger conspiracy
 and his role. It would be thus relevant to note the depositions of PW-
 29 and PW-30 as well. B.S. Yadav (PW-29) deposed as under: 21.10. No separate cross-examination of PW-29 was conducted on behalf of
 the appellant and he adopted the cross-examination by other counsels
 and in cross-examination this witness reiterated that after a cheque is
 cancelled it can only be re-validated in the name of the earlier
 beneficiary and not in the name of a different person and not at all in
 the name of an outsider or a stranger. 21.11. N.R. Meena, (PW-30) Assistant Accounts Officer deposed as under: 21.12. The only thing elicited from the cross-examination of N.R. Meena is
 that he used to write down the amount in numerical and words
 besides writing down the names of payee, date etc. and the appellant
 used to sign. However he clarified that the same was done with the
 prior approval of the appellant. 21.13. Subhash Chander (PW-44) who was a fitter in the DTC and had
 nothing to do with the CWC deposed that a cheque No. 241538 dated
 20th July, 1999 for a sum of ₹57,000/- was prepared in his name and CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 162 of 177 deposited in his account from which he withdrew an amount of
 ₹55,100/- and gave to O.P. Narang. 21.14. From the evidence of the witnesses noted above and that of Subhash
 Chander (PW-44) it is evident that cheques were prepared not in the
 name of the same person but in different names. N.R. Meena (PW- 30) exhibited cheque Ex.PW-30/A-37 issued in favour of
 Government organization namely National Water Development
 Authority (NWDA) on 10th August, 1999 for a sum of ₹49,548/-
 which was cancelled and prepared in favour of Jeet Ram Sharma (A- 9) and deposited in his account. Further bypassing the procedure
 prescribed in CAN appellant re-issued 8 cancelled cheques such as
 cheque exhibited PW-30/A-1 was initially issued in the name of S.C.
 Gupta was sent for re-issuance in favour of DDO as D-390 Ex.PW-
 30/A-2 and withdrawn in cash. Further a fresh cheque No. 034426
 dated 1st March, 2000 Ex.PW-30/A-2 was issued in lieu of one
 cancelled cheque 272858 dated 25th February, 2000 Ex.PW-30/A-1
 contrary to the procedure. PW-30 also exhibited D-508 vide Ex.PW-
 26/N whereby a fresh cheque No. 018424 dated 25 th October, 1999
 Ex.PW-30/A-3 for a sum of ₹34,449/- was issued in lieu of four
 cancelled cheques being Ex.PW-30/A-4 to A-7 contrary to the
 procedure for a sum of ₹34,449/-. One of the cheque was in the
 name of specified individual A.S.P. Sinha and re-issued in the name
 of DDO-I. Further vide Ex.PW-51/7 fresh cheque No. 018298 dated
 16th September, 1999 for a sum of ₹55,110/- was issued in lieu of
 cancelled cheque bearing No. 242509 dated 8th September, 1999 for a
 sum of ₹55,100/- Ex.PW-30/A-10. PW-30 also deposed about CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 163 of 177 various other cheques which appellant re-issued consolidating earlier
 old cheques in different names and in some of the documents viz.
 Document-381 there was no dispatch number or diary number also
 given. Thus bypassing all the procedures cheques were re-validated
 in different names. 21.15. The evidence on record and the procedure as noted above clearly
 proves that the appellant got cancelled the cheques and then issued
 cheques in the name of unauthorized persons and strangers. Hence
 the contention of learned counsel for the appellant that he had no role
 and he was only signing the cheques is required to be rejected. In
 view of the discussion aforesaid conviction of the appellant for
 offences punishable under Section 13(1)(d) read with 13(2) of P.C.
 Act and also under Sections 409 IPC and 120B read with Section
 403 / 409 IPC is upheld. 22. SENTENCE
22.1. Having upheld the conviction of the appellants for offences convicted
 by the learned Special Judge, this Court is now required to deal with
 the contentions of learned counsel for the appellants in respect of the
 disproportionate sentence awarded to them claiming that there is no
 parity in sentencing. For the sake of brevity sentences awarded by the
 learned Trial Court to the appellants on various counts are categorized
 as under: 22.2. Contention of learned counsels for the appellant Y.P. Sharma is that
 the sentence is severe and harsh whereas learned counsel for J.K.
 Singhal contends that he is the first time offender, senior citizen and CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 166 of 177 there is no previous conviction. Learned counsel for J.P. Sharma
 contends that he is 75 years old and in his 39 years of service, he was
 never involved in any criminal case, hence leniency be shown.
 Learned counsel for Shiv Sagar Naik and B.M. Ghosh contends that
 they were 65 and 67 years old respectively suffering from multiple
 ailments and having clean antecedants in service for the last nearly 40
 years. Contention on behalf of Om Prakash (A-11) is that he was a
 victim of circumstances forced by the senior officers, thus he should
 be granted the benefit of Probation of Offenders Act . Learned counsel
 for Om Prakash (A-12) contends that Om Prakash retired in the year
 1996 and is 78 years old suffering from heart ailment, incurable
 deceases and one of his daughters was physically challenged,
 abandoned by her husband, thus leniency be shown. Similar prayers
 of old age, multiple ailments and clean antecedants has been raised on
 behalf of C.Manjhi, Om Prakash Narang, Jeet Ram Sharma,
 Yesudanam, Hayat Singh, N.R. Suman and S.K. Aggarwal.
22.3. Appellants Y.P. Sharma (A-1), Chandreshwar Manjhi (A-2), Om
 Prakash Narang (A-3) and Jai Kumar Singhal (A-4) fall in category-1
 being the officials of CWC posted in Accounts Branch and appellants
 Natha Ram Suman (A-16) and S.K. Aggarwal (A-17) fall in category-
 2 being the officials of Pay and Accounts Office (P&AO). All six of
 them have been convicted for offence punishable under Section
 13(1)(d) read with Section 13(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act
 and awarded sentence of rigorous imprisonment for a period of 1 year
 and a fine of ₹1,000/- and in default whereof to undergo simple
 imprisonment for a period of 7 days which is not required to be CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 167 of 177 modified and is maintained. Appellant Y.P. Sharma (A-1), Om
 Prakash Narang (A-3), Jai Kumar Singhal (A-4) have been convicted
 for offences punishable under Section 403 IPC and awarded sentence
 of rigorous imprisonment for a period of 1 year and to pay a fine of
 ₹1,00,000/- in default whereof to undergo simple imprisonment for a
 period of 6 months. The said sentence is also not required to be
 modified. A perusal of the evidence as noted above would reveal that
 appellants Y.P. Sharma (A-1), Om Prakash Narang (A-3) and Jai
 Kumar Singhal (A-4) besides being posted in the Accounts
 Department were beneficiaries also and their conviction for offences
 punishable under Section 120B read with Section 403 / 409 IPC has
 been upheld. Even considering mitigating circumstances as noted
 above, this Court finds no reason to modify the sentence of rigorous
 imprisonment for a period of 7 years and to pay a fine of ₹1,00,000/-
 in default whereof to undergo simple imprisonment for a period of 6
 months awarded to them for offences punishable under Section 120B
 read with Section 403 / 409 IPC. Hence sentences of Y.P. Sharma (A- 1), Om Prakash Narang (A-3) and Jai Kumar Singhal (A-4) as
 awarded by the Trial Court are maintained. Appellant Natha Ram
 Suman has been awarded sentence of rigorous imprisonment for a
 period of 1 year and to pay a fine of ₹1,000/- in default whereof to
 undergo simple imprisonment for a period of 7 days for offences
 punishable under Section 120B read with Sections 403 / 409 IPC. No
 appeal for enhancement of the sentence has been filed by the CBI and
 his sentence as noted above is maintained. Conviction of S.K.
 Aggarwal (A-17) has been upheld for offences punishable under CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 168 of 177 Sections 409 and 120B read with Section 403 / 409 IPC and he has
 been awarded rigorous imprisonment for 7 years on both the counts
 and to pay a fine of ₹1,00,000/- and in default whereof to undergo
 simple imprisonment for 6 months. Considering the fact that there is
 no evidence led by the prosecution that S.K. Aggarwal was a
 beneficiary, his sentence for offences punishable under Section 409
 and 120B read with Section 403/409 is reduced to 5 years rigorous
 imprisonment on both the counts and to pay a fine of ₹1,00,000/- and
 in default whereof to undergo simple imprisonment of 6 months on
 each count. Sentence of appellant Chandreshwar Manjhi for offence
 punishable under Section 120B read with 403/409 IPC is maintained.
22.4. Officials of the CWC falling in the category-3, J.P. Sharma (A-6),
 Shiv Sagar Naik (A-7), Jeet Ram Sharma (A-9), B.M. Ghosh (A-10),
 Om Prakash (A-11), Om Prakash (A-12), Yeshudanan (A-14) and
 Hayat Singh (A-15) have all been convicted for offence punishable
 under Section 403 IPC and awarded sentence of rigorous
 imprisonment for a period of 1 year. Further on this count J.P. Sharma
 (A-6) has been directed to pay a fine of ₹1,00,000/- in default whereof
 to undergo simple imprisonment for a period of 6 months; Shiv Sagar
 Naik (A-7), Jeet Ram Sharma (A-9), B.M. Ghosh (A-10), Yeshudanan
 (A-14) and Hayat Singh (A-15) have been directed to pay a fine of
 ₹10,000/- in default whereof to undergo simple imprisonment for a
 period of 1 month; Om Prakash (A-11) and Om Prakash (A-12) are
 directed to pay a fine of ₹50,000/- in default whereof to undergo
 simple imprisonment for a period of 3 months; which fine amount or
 sentence in default thereof is not required to be modified. Appellants CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 169 of 177 Jeet Ram Sharma (A-9) and B.M. Ghosh (A-10) have been convicted
 for offence punishable under Section 471 IPC and awarded sentence
 of rigorous imprisonment for a period of 3 years and to pay a fine of
 ₹10,000/- in default whereof to undergo simple imprisonment for a
 period of 1 month which sentence is also not required to be disturbed.
 Appellants Shiv Sagar Naik (A-7), Jeet Ram Sharma (A-9), B.M.
 Ghosh (A-10), Om Prakash (A-12) have been convicted of offences
 punishable under Section 120B read with 403/409 IPC and all of them
 are beneficiaries. Though convicted for offences punishable under Section 471 IPC, sentence awarded to Shiv Sagar Naik and Om
 Prakash S/o Amir Singh (A-12) is 5 years whereas others i.e. Jeet Ram
 Sharma and B.M. Ghosh is 1 year. To maintain parity in sentence and
 also the fact that they are beneficiary, sentence of Shiv Sagar Naik (A- 7) and Om Prakash (A-12) for offence punishable under Section 120B
 read with Section 403 / 409 IPC is modified to rigorous imprisonment
 for a period of 3 years and to pay a fine of ₹10,000/- in default
 whereof to undergo simple imprisonment for a period of 1 month.
 Sentence of Jeet Ram Sharma (A-9) and B.M. Ghosh (A-10) for
 offences under Section 120B read with Section 403 / 409 IPC is not
 required to be modified. Sentence of appellant Om Prakash (A-11) is
 modified to rigorous imprisonment for a period of 3 years and to pay a
 fine of ₹10,000/- in default whereof to undergo simple imprisonment
 for a period of 1 month for the offence punishable under Section 120B
 read with Section 403 / 409 IPC. J.P. Sharma (A-6) being a beneficiary
 to a great extent his sentence for offence punishable under Section
 120B read with Section 403 / 409 IPC is rigorous imprisonment for a CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 170 of 177 period of 7 years and to pay a fine of ₹1 lakh and in default whereof to
 undergo simple imprisonment for 6 months is maintained. The
 sentence of appellant Yesudanam for offence punishable under
 Section 120B read with Section 403 / 409 IPC being 1 year rigorous
 imprisonment and to pay a fine of ₹10,000/- in default whereof to
 undergo simple imprisonment for a period of 1 month is also
 maintained. As regards Hayat Singh (A-15) his sentence for offence
 punishable under Section 403 IPC of rigorous imprisonment for 1 year
 and a fine of ₹10,000/- in default whereof to undergo simple
 imprisonment for 1 month is maintained. However, maintaining parity
 with the other appellants his sentences for offences punishable under
 Section 120B read with Section 403 / 409 IPC is reduced to rigorous
 imprisonment for a period of 3 years and to pay a fine of ₹10,000/- in
 default whereof to undergo simple imprisonment for a period of 1
 month. 22.5. Thus, in view of the aforesaid discussion the modified sentence of the
 appellants are: 23. Crl.Appeal Nos. 259/2016, 280/2016, 240/2016, 241/2016, 269/2016,
297/2016, 323/2016, 396/2016 and 847/2016 are dismissed. Crl.Appeal
Nos. 134/2016, 150/2016, 151/2016, 342/2016 and 347/2016 are disposed of
in view of the modification in sentence. Appellants Jeet Ram Sharma (A-9),
B.M. Ghosh (A-10), Yeshudanam (A-14) and Natha Ram Suman (A-16)
who are on bail shall surrender within four weeks to undergo the remaining
sentence. 24. Copy of the judgment be sent to the Superintendent Tihar Jail for
updation of the records. 25. Trial Court Record be sent back. (MUKTA GUPTA)
 JUDGE
SEPTEMBER 05, 2017
'ga' CRL.A. 134/2016 & conn. matters Page 177 of 177