Mr. Siddhartha Datta, Advocate
 Ms. Trisha Mukherjee, Advocate
 Mr. Siddharth Dey, Advocate
 Mr. Chetan Kabra, Advocate

Judgment on :11 June 2025

Ravi Krishan Kapur J.: 5. IPDTMA/18/2024 1644597 16 Dunlop Printed Matter; Book-Binding Material; Photographs; Stationery; Adhesives For 748969
 Stationery Or Household Purposes; Artists, Materials; Paint Brushes; Typewriters
 And Office Requisites (Except Furniture); Instructional And Teaching Materiru
 (Except Apparatus); Plastic Materials For Packaging (Not Included In Other
 Classes); Playing Cards; Printers Type; Printing Blocks

 Lace And Embroidery, Ribbons And Braid; Buttons Hooks And Eyes, Pins And 6. IPDTMA/19/2024 1644602 26 Dunlop Needles; Artificial Flowers 748971

 Beers, Mineral And Aerated Waters, And Other Non-Alcoholic Drinks, Fruit Drinks 1. IPDTMA/20/2024 1644606 32 Dunlop And Fruit Juices; Syrups And Other Preparations For Making Beverages 748964 8. IPDTMA/21/2024 1644607 33 Dunlop Alcoholic Beverages (Except Beers) 748965 5. Pursuant to the above filings, the appellant objected to the registration of the

 mark by filing their respective oppositions. Thereafter, Dunlop India Ltd. filed a

 counter statement seeking dismissal of the opposition and also submitted their

 evidence in support of the application. 6. During the pendency of the above applications, the name of Dunlop India Ltd. was changed to Ruia Sons Pvt. Ltd. Thereafter, Ruia Sons Pvt. Ltd., changed its 4 name to Vrisha Services Pvt. Ltd. and finally from Vrisha Services Pvt. Ltd. to

 Glorious Investment Limited. All such changes were recorded on the basis of

 alleged Deeds of Assignments and Addendums in respect of the unregistered

 mark of Dunlop India Ltd, while the same were pending consideration. By an

 order dated 11 April 2016, the Registrar allowed the amendments whereby

 Glorious Investment Ltd. became the applicant in all the pending applications

 for registration of the mark "Dunlop". 7. It is contended on behalf of the appellant that the impugned orders passed in

 each of the above proceeding is perverse, erroneous and bad in law and are

 liable to be set aside. The impugned orders contain no reason at all. It is

 contended that there has been gross fraud by Dunlop India Ltd. in executing

 the purported Deeds of Assignments dated 10 September 2008 alongwith with

 Addendums dated 15 September 2008 as well as the purported Deeds of

 Assignments dated 17 December 2015. No notice was given to the appellant

 prior to taking on record any of the purported Deeds of Assignments or the

 Addendums. This was also in violation of principles of natural justice. The

 appellant also did not get any chance to deal with the documents disclosed

 subsequently by the respondent no. 1 pertaining to the respective assignments.

 The purported assignments have been made during the period when the

 company i.e. Dunlop India Ltd. was in liquidation and amount to fraudulent

 preferences and are void ab initio in view of the embargo under the Companies

 Act, 1956 . In any event, Ruia Sons Pvt. Ltd. and Glorious Investment Ltd. had

 filed applications for taking on record the purported assignments in an

 incorrect Form under the Act and Rules framed thereunder. 5 8. It is also contended that in passing the impugned orders, the respondent no.2

 has proceeded with undue haste and concluded the hearing in a manner which

 is in violation of the principles of natural justice. In rejecting the prayer for

 adjournment of the appellant, the Registrar lost sight of the fact that the

 proceedings had been pending since long and had also been initiated under

 Trademark Rules 2002, when no time limit on the number of adjournments

 were contemplated under the Rules. There was no proper nor adequate

 opportunity of hearing which had been afforded by the respondent authorities. In support, the appellant relies on Kranti Associates vs. Masood Ahmed Khan ( 2010) 9 SCC 496, UCO Bank vs. Spanco 2014 SCC Online Bom 1232, IDBI

 Bank vs. Official Liquidator ( 2020) 15 SCC 517, Golam Lalchand v. Nandu Lal

 Shaw 2024 SCC Online SC 2456, Kewal Krishan v. Rajesh Kumar & Ors. (2022)

 18 SCC 489, Kia Wang vs. Reg. of Trade Marks 2023 SCC OnLine Del 5844 and

 BPI Sports LLC vs. Saurabh Gulati (2023) 3 HCC (Del) 164. 9. On behalf of the respondent no.1 it is contended that, there are no grounds to

 interfere with any of the impugned orders. The entire opposition of the

 appellant was unsubstantiated and meritless. At the appellate stage, the

 introduction of new facts is impermissible. There is also no merit in the

 contention that the impugned orders are ex parte. The Registrar was fully

 justified in refusing the prayer for adjournment. The appellant had sought for

 three prior adjournments. The matter was heard on merits in the presence of

 Advocates of both the parties and the same is reflected in the impugned orders. 10. It is further contended that a bare perusal of the impugned orders would

 demonstrate that there are sufficient and adequate reasons. There is also no 6 merit in the contention that "Dunlop" is not a well-known mark. The allegation

 of the assignment deeds being registered in the wrong form is also without

 basis. The contention that the assignments were fraudulent or unlawful are

 raised for the first time at the Appellate stage. In support of such contentions,

 reliance is placed on the decisions in Armasuisse vs. Trade Mark Registry 2023

 SCC OnLine Del 4 and Cinni Foundation vs. Raj Kumar Sah & Sons, Delhi High

 Court, ILR (2010) I Delhi 754, Kamdhenu Ispat Ltd. vs. Kamdhenu Pickles and

 Spices Delhi High Court CS(OS) 2301 of 2008, Lite Bite Travel Foods Private

 Limited vs. Registrar of Trademarks 2023 SCC OnLine Del 296, Kamdhenu Ispat

 Ltd. vs. Kamdhenu Pickles and Spices Ind Pvt. Ltd. 2010 SCC OnLine Del 3699

 and Central Bank of India vs. Tarseema Compress Wood Manufacturing

 Company 1996 SCC OnLine Bom 565. 11. On behalf of the respondent no.2 Controller, there were multiple

 representations in the different matters. Mr. Swatarup Banerjee, Advocate

 appearing on behalf of the respondent no.2 Controller in IPDPTMA/17/2024

 (Dunlop International Ltd. vs. Glorious Investments Ltd. & Anr.) had submitted

 that the impugned order was unsustainable and chose not to defend the same.

 On the other hand, in the remaining appeals the respondent no.2 Controller

 strenuously contended that the impugned orders warranted no interference at

 all. There was no infirmity in the procedure nor contravention of the Rules nor

 the Act. Hearing notices were issued at all stages to the respective parties. The

 prayer for adjournment made on the third occasion i.e. on 20 March 2024 was

 justifiably rejected. The argument raised by the appellant during the course of

 hearing with regard to assignments and Dunlop India Ltd. undergoing

 liquidation proceedings were not even agitated or brought to the attention to 7 the Controller. All such points are impermissible and even the question of

 fraud cannot be gone into by this Court. The impugned orders are adequately

 reasoned and warrant no interference at all. There is no scope of the public

 being deceived or confused. In view of the above and keeping in mind the

 limited jurisdiction of the Controller under the Act, all these appeals are liable

 to be dismissed. 12. At the outset, the manner in which the proceedings have been conducted by

 the respondent no.2 go to the root of the question of the principles of fairness

 and natural justice. Lord Chief Justice Hewart once remarked "Justice must not

 only be done, but manifestly and undoubtedly be seen to be done" [Rex vs.

 Sussex Justices Ex Parte McCarthy (1924) 1 KB 256]. All the above proceedings

 had been filed as far back as in 2012. The pleadings were completed on 14

 February, 2012. The applications were kept pending for more than a decade. In

 this context, Rule 50 of the Trademark Rules, 2017 provides as follows: Provided that no party shall be given more than two adjournments and each
 adjournment shall not be for more than thirty days. (3) If the applicant is not present at the adjourned date of hearing and at the time
 mentioned in the notice, the application any be treated as abandoned.

 (4) If the opponent is not present at the adjourned date of hearing and at the time
 mentioned in the notice, the opposition may be dismissed for want of prosecution
 and the application may proceed to registration subject to section 19 .

 (5) The Registrar shall consider written arguments if submitted by a party to the
 proceedings. (6) The decision of the Registrar shall be communicated to the parties in writing the
 address given for service." 13. On a plain reading of the above Rule, it appears that a party is entitled to file a

 requisite form and pray for an adjournment on two occasions. The object,

 context, subject matter, general inconvenience and the consequences of

 interpreting Rule 50 negative a mandatory interpretation. A procedural law is

 not ordinarily to be construed as mandatory. Any interpretation which eludes

 or frustrates the recipient of justice is not to be followed. The records reveal

 that, on an earlier occasion, the appellant had informally prayed for an

 adjournment on the ground of illness and sickness of counsel. This was the

 second adjournment. Hence, the prayer on 20 March 2024 was the third

 adjournment. However, these proceedings had been initiated under the

 Trademark Rules, 2002 when there was no limit on the number of

 adjournments which the Registrar could grant. On a reading of the 2002 Rules,

 the Registrar had the power to allow extension of time and adjournment under

 Rules 56 and 105 of the Trademark Rules, 2002 read with Section 131 of the

 Trademark Act, 1999. Ordinarily, no litigant has a vested right in matters of

 procedure. It is also well settled that the rules of procedure are the handmaid

 of justice and are for advancement of the cause of justice and not to prevent

 the parties from getting a fair adjudication of their rights on merits. [ State of

 Punjab vs. Shamlal AIR 1976 SC 1177, Kantilal vs. Registrar (1981) ILPR 93 @

 102, Flower Tobacco vs. Mohd Sachin ( 1981) PTC 9 and Sk. Salim Haji Abdul

 Khayumsab v. Kumar , (2006) 1 SCC 46]. 14. It is true that the order sheet reflects the name of the appellant. However, the

 presence of the Advocate on behalf of the appellant was only to seek an 9 adjournment. All the applications were being seriously contested. The matter

 has been pending since 2012. The orders of the Registry would reflect that the

 matter had on numerous occasions been mechanically adjourned by previous

 Hearing Officers. The appellant was not in a position to fairly proceed with the

 matter. Despite Rule 50(4), the Controller chose not to dismiss the opposition

 for want of prosecution but creates an impression of a hearing on merits by

 both sides and therein lies the mischief. In refusing the prayer for adjournment

 and proceeding to dispose of the above applications, the principles of natural

 justice have also been violated and this goes to the root of the impugned

 orders. The recording in the impugned orders that both parties were heard is

 an unfair and misleading reflection of what actually transpired at the hearing

 on 20 March, 2024 and vitiates the entire hearing process and in effect, the

 impugned orders. In the facade of proceduralism, there has been an arbitrary

 and unjustified exercise of discretion. In such circumstances, the right to a fair

 hearing which is a cardinal requirement of the Rule of Law has also been

 contravened. 15. The impugned orders are also liable to be set aside on the ground that the

 same are unreasoned. In Uniworth Resorts Limited vs. Ashok Mittal & Anr.

 Reported at 2007 SCC OnLine Cal 532, a Coordinate Bench of this Court had

 held as follows: 16. A bare reading of the impugned orders would show that after an attempt to

 paraphrase the law i.e. section 11 of the Trademarks Act, 1999 and refer to

 some of the authorities, the Deputy Registrar has concluded as follows: 17. There is no "why" for the "what" to stand on in any of the impugned orders.

 The reference to "upon all consideration of the documents and evidences, I have

 come to the conclusion that the mark being "DUNLOP" as applied for by the

 applicant is liable to be registered" is bereft of any reasoning and reflects non-

 application of mind. One can only leave it to imagination as to "which document

 was considered" and "what evidence" weighed with the Deputy Registrar in 11 passing the impugned orders. Reason is the life of law. There is simply nothing

 in the impugned orders to substantiate the conclusion. A pretence of reasons

 or 'rubber-stamp' reasons is not to be equated with a valid decision making

 process. The Note of Submissions filed by the respondent no.2 in these

 proceedings also do not add or supplement the impugned orders. This is

 another facet of violation of the principles of natural justice which makes the

 impugned orders unsustainable. [ Kranti Associates vs. Masood Ahmed Khan (2010) 9 SCC 469 @ Para 12 and 47]. 18. Moreover, the respondent no.1 had applied for registration of the impugned

 mark with the user claim as "proposed to be used" as on the date of the

 applications i.e. 22 June 2008 when the mark "Dunlop" was devoid of any

 distinctive character in respect of the particular class of goods and services

 applied for by it. Significantly, the mark "DUNLOP is an invented word, coined

 out of the name of Sir John Boyd Dunlop, who invented the "Dunlop" brand of

 pneumatic tyres in or around 1888. The appellant traces its origin to the said

 Sir John Boyd Dunlop whereas the predecessor of the respondent no.1 was

 merely a subsidiary company of the appellant. The mark "Dunlop is not a well-

 known trade mark within the meaning of Sec. 2(1)(zg) of the Act, nor is the

 mark on the list of well-known marks presently maintained under Rule 124 of

 the Trade Mark Rules, 2017. The finding in the impugned orders that "Dunlop"

 is a well-known trademark is unreasoned and unsubstantiated. In arriving at

 any such conclusion, the respondent no.2 was statutorily obliged to determine

 whether "Dunlop" is a well-known mark in accordance with section 11(6) to 11(9) of the Act. In fact, these provisions mandate the factors to be taken into

 account in determining whether a mark has attained the status of a well- 12 known mark or not. [ Daimler Benz Aktiengesellschaft vs. Hybo Hindustan AIR

 1994 Del 239 and Tata Sons Ltd. vs. Manoj Dodia 2011 (40) PTC 244 (Del)].

 Merely because the mark "Dunlop" had been registered qua any other class,

 does not mean that "Dunlop" would automatically have to be registered in

 favour of the respondent no. 1 (who was merely a permissive user of the

 "Dunlop" mark under the appellant) in classes 16, 26, 32, 33, 38, 40, 41 and 42. Thus, the test applied by the respondent no. 2, while allowing the

 applications for registration is erroneous and misplaced. In addition, the well-

 settled principles followed in deciding "distinctiveness" of a mark have also

 been ignored and not dealt with in the impugned orders. 19. A serious aspect of the matter which also required consideration is the

 admitted fact that Dunlop India Ltd., the respondent no.1 had (in

 CP/233/2008 filed on 30 June 2008) been directed to be wound up. Diverse

 proceedings had been filed from time to time in the winding up proceedings i.e.

 CP/233/2008, CP/13/2009 and CP/513/2011. The proceedings culminating

 in the final order of winding up are also relected in the decisions in Madura

 Coats Ltd. vs. Dunlop India Ltd. vs. 2012 SCC OnLine Cal 13214, ICICI Bank

 Ltd. vs. Dunlop India Ltd. & Ors. 2013 SCC OnLine Cal 8195 and Dunlop India

 Limited vs. E.V. Mathai and Sons 2013 SCC OnLine Cal 1591. A combined

 reading of the above decisions would reflect that the company when in the

 hands of one Pawan Kumar Ruia in view of the gross acts of fraud and

 siphoning had ultimately been directed to be wound up and the Official

 Liquidator was directed to take over the assets and properties of the company

 (in liquidation). The relevance of the winding up orders insofar as these

 proceedings are concerned is the attempt of the erstwhile management to 13 transfer and deal with or assign the marks of the company (in liquidation) in

 order to fraudulently and illegally circumvent the winding up proceedings. It is

 well-settled that "Fraud unravels all." Fraud can be raised at any stage of the

 proceedings and even in collateral proceedings. Any incidence of fraud sets

 everything at large. [ State of A.P. and Anr. vs T. Suryachandra Rao (2005) 6 SCC

 149 @ paras 8 to 12, 14 to 16]. 20. The contention of the appellant that the entire exercise of executing the

 purported assignments and the alleged addendums and all steps taken

 consequential thereto were fraudulently designed and executed with ill-intent

 at least deserved to be brought to the attention of the respondent no.2. The

 allegation that all the purported assignments were fraudulent and back dated

 and executed with the malafide intention of defrauding and circumventing the

 law were serious in nature and this aspect ought to have been considered.

 These facts were in the public domain. The fact of similar Advocates appearing

 both on behalf of the assignor and the assignee in the proceeding before the

 Registry and a representative of Dunlop India Ltd. (even post assignment)

 adducing evidence on behalf of the respondent no.1 also goes to the root of the

 bonafides of the entire transaction of assignments. 21. It is to be remembered that an underlying objective in all intellectual property

 matters is one of public interest. The right to have a trade mark registered is a

 valuable commercial right. The rights and privileges of registration operate in

 rem, and the purity of the Register of Marks must be preserved. The serious

 allegations of fraud, ante dating of documents, fraudulent preferences and bad

 faith at least ought to have been brought to the attention of the respondent

 no.2. On an interpretation of section 11(10)(ii) of the Act, the respondent 14 authorities may or may not have exercised jurisdiction on examination of the

 above facts. Regardless of the merits or demerits, these were all material,

 relevant and germane facts in considering the genuineness and veracity of

 assignments and the consequential addendums. [ UCO Bank vs. Spanco Ltd. 2014 SCC OnLine Bom 1232 Paras 11 to 14 and 17, Kia Wand v. Reg. of Trade

 Marks: 2023 SCC OnLine Del 5844 paras. 17, 20 to 24 and BPI Sports LLC v.

 Saurabh Gulati (2023) 3HCC (Del) 164 paras 46, 47, 49 to 50 to 58]. 22. Another issue which was raised on behalf of the appellant that the applications

 for taking of record the purported assignments executed between Dunlop India

 Limited to Ruia Sons Private Limited and from Vrishah Service Private Limited

 to Glorious Investment Limited were filed in an incorrect form. On behalf of the

 appellant, it was contended that the Act and the Rules framed thereunder

 make a significant difference between a request by a registered proprietor and

 transferee to register the transfer as subsequent proprietor of the trademark

 upon devolution of title and this has to be filed in TM-23/TM-24 which relates

 to the above facts. Nevertheless, the respondent no. 1 purported to file TM-16

 which only related to a request for correction, clerical error or for amendment,

 which was inapplicable in the facts of this case. The further confusion which

 was added during the course of submissions by the respondent no.1 that in

 view of section 45 of the Act and the limited powers circumscribed of the

 Learned Registrar, the impugned orders warranted no interference. However, in

 Reply, a radically different stand was taken by the respondent no.1 that section 45 was inapplicable and the correct form had been filed for recording

 such change of name. The inconsistent and irreconcilable position by the

 respondent no.1 in their submissions to justify whether the correct Form had 15 been filed or not to bring on record the deeds of assignment and all

 consequential documents also requires examination. 23. Section 45 of the Act provides as follows: 24. On a reading of the section, the Registrar has a limited jurisdiction where the

 validity or assignment of a mark between the parties has been raised and the

 parties have to approach an appropriate Civil Court. In view of the above facts

 and the nature of the dispute raised which go to root of whether the

 assignments and addendums were valid, genuine, bonafide has not even

 brought to the attention of the respondent no.2 and hence finds no mention in

 the impugned orders. Additionally, neither the appellant nor any other party

 including the Official Liquidator adversely affected had any notice of the

 assignment. This aspect also required examination. The applicability or

 inapplicability of section 45 of the Act in view of the fact that the marks applied

 for were unregistered trademarks has neither been dealt with nor adverted to

 in the impugned orders and this is also a serious infirmity in the impugned

 orders. 25. A peculiar feature of this litigation is the stand of the statutory authority in

 these proceedings. In IPDPMA/17/2024, the respondent statutory authority

 were represented by Mr. Swatarup Banerjee. During the course of hearing, Mr.

 Banerjee conceded that the impugned order was unsustainable both in law

 and on merits and there were no grounds which could be urged to sustain the

 same. On the other hand, the Advocates appearing on behalf of the Controller

 in the other appeals vehemently attempted to sustain the impugned order both

 on facts and law. The contradictory position of the Advocates appearing on

 behalf of the respondent no.2 also warrants the impugned orders being re-

 examined. 26. For the above reasons, all the impugned orders in each of the appeals i.e.

 IPDTMA No. 14 of 2024, IPDTMA No. 15 of 2024, IPDTMA No. 16 of 2024,

 IPDTMA No. 17 of 2024, IPDTMA No. 18 of 2024, IPDTMA No. 19 of 2024,

 IPDTMA No. 20 of 2024 and IPDTMA No. 21 of 2024 is set aside. Each of the

 matters is remanded to the respondent authorities with a direction to

 reconsider the same after granting an opportunity of hearing to all the parties.

 The above exercise is to be concluded and disposed of within a period of three

 months from the date of communication of this order. It is made clear that any

 expression on the merits of the case is tentative and not final. All issues are left

 open to be decided afresh in accordance with law. (Ravi Krishan Kapur, J.)