2025:HHC:25011

 IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH, SHIMLA

 Cr. MPM No. 1489 of 2025
 Reserved on: 21.07.2025
 Date of Decision: 30.7.2025

 Gagan Sarna .... Petitioner

 Versus

 State of Himachal Pradesh ...Respondent
 Coram
 Hon'ble Mr Justice Rakesh Kainthla, Judge.
 Whether approved for reporting? No.

 For the Petitioner : Mr. Umesh Kanwar, Advocate. The petitioner has filed the present petition for

 seeking regular bail in F.I.R. No. 127 of 2024, dated 27.10.2024,

 registered for the commission of offences punishable under

 Sections 21, 29 and 27A of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic

_________________________ 1 Whether reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the judgment? Yes. 2025:HHC:25011

Substances Act (ND& PS Act ) at Police Station Damtal District

Kangra, H.P. 2. It has been asserted that, as per the prosecution, the

police apprehended Kamaljeet on 27.10.2024 at about 7:00 pm

with 262 grams of heroin. Kamaljeet revealed that he had

purchased heroin from Rajesh Kumar, which was to be delivered

to Rajat Kumar. The police arrested Rajesh Kumar, who

disclosed that one Vishal @ Shalubali resident of Dubai, used to

send heroin to him. He (Rajesh Kumar) would collect money and

hand it over to Raj Kumar @ Sethi, who used to hand over the

money to Lakhvinder. The police arrested Lakhvinder, who

disclosed that he had deposited the money with the petitioner,

owner of Gaurav Jeweller. The police arrested the petitioner. The

petitioner is innocent, and he was falsely implicated. He is a

first offender, and no case is made out against him. Therefore,

he prayed that the present petition be allowed and the petitioner

be released on bail. 3. The petition is opposed by filing a status report

asserting that police party apprehended Kamajeet Singh with a

carry bag containing 262 grams of heroin on 27.10.2024. The 3 2025:HHC:25011

police seized the heroin and arrested Kamaljeet. Kamaljeet

revealed during the interrogation that he had purchased the

heroin from Rajesh, and he was to deliver it to Rajat Kumar. The

police checked call details records and found that he (Rajesh)

and Rajat Kumar had been in touch with each other. The police

apprehended Rajesh, who revealed that Vishal @ Shalubali a

resident of Dubai, supplies the heroin to him with directions to

further supply it to the persons named by him. He used to hand

over the money to Rajesh Kumar alias Sethi. The police

apprehended Rajesh Kumar alias Sethi. Rajesh Kumar alias

Sethi revealed during the interrogation that he handed over the

money to Lakhvinder Singh as per the directions of Vishal. The

police apprehended Lakhvinder, who revealed that he had

deposited the money into his account and handed over some of

the money to Mohit Singh, an employee of Gaurav Jewellers. He

had also handed over about three crores rupees to petitioner

Gagan Sarna, owner of Gaurav Jeweller. The police arrested

Mohit Singh and recovered the gold ornaments, currency notes,

and documents of investment. The police also arrested the

petitioner at the instance of Lakhvinder Singh and recovered

currency notes of ₹2,10,76,000/- (Two Crore Ten Lakh Seventy 4 2025:HHC:25011

Thousand only) and one kilogram Gold. (Rupees One Crore and

Fifty Lakhs) and jewellery. The money collected by the Drug

trade was kept with the petitioner. The petitioner was earlier

involved in another case, and he stated that he was not aware of

the fact that money was generated from the drug trade. The

petitioner would indulge in the commission of a similar offence

in case of his release on bail. Therefore, it was prayed that the

present petition be dismissed. 4. I have heard Mr. Umesh Kanwar, learned counsel for

the petitioner and Mr. Jitender K. Sharma, learned Additional

Advocate General, for the respondent/State. 5. Mr. Umesh Kanwar, learned counsel for the

petitioner, submitted that the petitioner is innocent and was

falsely implicated. The prosecution has not collected any

material to connect the petitioner with the commission of crime. Even if the allegations of the prosecution are accepted to be

correct, only the drug money was deposited with the petitioner. This may attract the provisions of the Prevention of Money

Laundering Act , but does not attract the provisions of NDPS. 2025:HHC:25011

Therefore, he prayed that the present petition be allowed and

the petitioner be released on bail. 6. Mr. Jitender K. Sharma, learned Additional Advocate

General for the respondent/State, submitted that the petitioner

is involved in the financing of the drug trade. He abetted the

sale/purchase of the heroin. The quantity of heroin recovered by

the police is commercial, and the rigours of Section 37 of the

NDPS Act apply to the present case. Hence, he prayed that the

present petition be dismissed. 7. I have given considerable thought to the submissions

made at the bar and have gone through the records carefully. 8. The parameters for granting bail were considered by

the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Ajwar v. Waseem (2024) 10 SCC

768: 2024 SCC OnLine SC 974, wherein it was observed at page

783: - 9. This position was reiterated in Ramratan v. State of

M.P. , 2024 SCC OnLine SC 3068, wherein it was observed as

under:- character, behaviour and standing of the accused; and the
 circumstances which are peculiar or the accused and
 larger interest of the public or the State and similar other
 considerations. A criminal court, exercising jurisdiction
 to grant bail/anticipatory bail, is not expected to act as
 a recovery agent to realise the dues of the
 complainant, and that too, without any trial."
 (Emphasis supplied) 10. This position was reiterated in Shabeen Ahmed versus

State of U.P. , 2025 SCC Online SC 479. 11. The present petition has to be decided as per the

parameters laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court. 12. The allegations against the petitioner are that the

drug money was deposited with him. According to the

prosecution, this amounts to financing of the drugs. This

submission is not acceptable. The term financing was explained 9 2025:HHC:25011

by Bombay High Court in Rhea Chakraborty v. Union of India 2021

Cr LJ 248 as under:- 72. Black's Law Dictionary gives the meaning of the word
"finance" as "to raise or provide funds". 73. Thus, "financing" as generally understood is offering
monetary support or providing funds. 74. Therefore, simply providing money for a particular
transaction or other transactions will not be financing of that
activity. Financing will have to be interpreted to mean to
provide funds for either making that particular activity
operational or for sustaining it. It is the financial support
which directly or indirectly causes the existence of such illicit
traffic. The word "financing" would necessarily refer to some
activities involving illegal trade or business 75. The allegations against the Applicant of spending
money in procuring drugs for Sushant Singh Rajput will 11 2025:HHC:25011

 not, therefore, mean that she had financed illicit traffic."
 (emphasis supplied) 13. In the present case, the prosecution alleged that the

petitioner had taken money generated from the sale of the

heroin. This does not amount to financing. It was submitted

that the petitioner paid money to the Drug Dealers as per the

direction of Vishal. Even if it is accepted to be correct, the money

belonged to Drug Dealers, as per prosecution, and returning the

money to them will not amount to financing by any stretch of

interpretation. Thus, prima facie, the allegations against the

petitioner do not attract the provisions of Section 27A of the

NDPS Act. 14. Perusal of the status report shows that the petitioner

had received money from the Drug Dealers; therefore, he would

not be an abettor. It was laid down by the Gujarat High Court in Lalitbhai Vikramchand Parekh vs. State of Gujarat and Ors . (10.04.2015 - GUJHC) : MANU/GJ/0165/2015 that the abettor is a

person who instigates the commission of the offence. It was

observed: According to Webster, Webster's Third New International
Dictionary, Vol. I, the expression "abet", means to incite,
encourage, instigate, or countenance-now usually used
disparagingly. According to Wharton, Wharton's Law
Lexicon, 14th ed., "abet" means to stir up or excite, to
maintain or patronise: to encourage or set on, and the
"abettor" is an instigator or setter on, one who promotes
or procures a crime to be committed. Stroud, Stroud's
Judicial Dictionary, 4th ed., has given various meanings of
the expression "aid" or "abet", based on judicial
pronouncements in England, in the context of different
statutes. Thus, according to Hawkins, 51 L J.M.C. 78-R. v.
Coney, J., "To constitute an aider or abettor, some active
steps must be taken, by word or action, with intent to
instigate the principal or principals. Encouragement does
not, of necessity, amount to aiding and abetting. It may
be intentional or unintentional. A man may unwillingly
encourage another in fact by his presence, by
misinterpreted gestures, or by his silence or non-
interference; he may encourage intentionally by
expressions, gestures, or actions, intended to signify
approval. In the latter case, he aids and abets; in the
former he does not." Stroud also cites the case of Du Cros
v. Lambourne, 1907 (1) K.B. 40. in which it was held that
"the owner in, and in control of, a motor car which is
being driven at an improper speed by a driver who is not
his servant, "aids or abets" in the offence if he (the
owner) does not interfere." It is further noticed on the
basis of decision in the case of Rubie v. Faulkner, 1980 (1)
K.B. 571: "For a supervisor of a learner driver to see that
an unlawful act is about to be done and to fail to prevent it
is he can is for him to aid and abet." It is further noticed,
on the authority of the decision in the case of Callow v.
Tillstone, 83 L.T. 411, that "A man does not by negligence
aid and abet a person to expose unsound meat for sale." It
is further noticed, on the basis of the decision in the case
of Ackroyds Air Travel v. Director of Police Prosecutions,
1950 (1) All. E.R. 933 and Thomas v. Lindop, 1950 (1) All. E.R. 13 2025:HHC:25011

966, that "If a person knows all the circumstances which
constitute the offence he will be guilty of aiding and
abetting whether he knew that they did in fact constitute
the offence or not " Stroud also quotes Lord Goddard C J.
in Ferguson v. Weaving, 1951 (1) K.B 814, that "it is well
know that the words 'aid and abet are apt to describe the
action of a person who is present at the time of the
commission of an offence and takes some part therein." 14. It may be useful to refer to some of the early English
decisions, dealing with different ways of taking part in a
felony. It was recognised that a felony may be committed
by the hand of an "innocent agent" who, having no
blameworthy intentions in that he did, incurred no
criminal liability by doing it. In such a case, the man who
"instigates" this agent is the real offender; his was the
last mens rea that preceded the crime, though it did not
cause it "immediately but mediately". "Thus, if a
physician provides a poisonous draught and tells a nurse
that it is the medicine to be administered to her patient,
and then by her administration of it the patient is killed,
the murderous physician-and not the innocent nurse-is
the principal in the first degree Kel. 52 (T.A.C.)." In
English Law, as it stood before the later developments, "a
principal in the second degree is one by whom the actual
perpetrator of the felony is aided and abetted at the very
time when it is committed; for instance, a car-owner
sitting beside the chauffeur who kills some one by over-
fast driving, or a passenger on a clandestine joy-riding
expedition which results in manslaughter 1930 (22) Cr,
App. R. 70: 144 L.T. 185, "or bigamist's second 'wife' if she
knows he is committing bigamy, or even be spectators if
they actively encourage such a contest even by mere
applause. "But a spectator's presence at a prize-fight
does not of itself constitute sufficient encouragement to
amount to an aiding and abetting 1882 (8) Q.B.D. 534." It
was also recognised that a man may effectively "aid and
abet" a crime and at the very moment of its perpetration,
without being present at the place where it is perpetrated. 2025:HHC:25011

"To be guilty of aiding and abetting, a person must either
render effective aid to the principal offender or else must
be present and acquiesce in what he is doing. Before a
person can be convicted of aiding and abetting the
commission of an offence, be must at least know the
essential matters which constitute the offence 1951 (1) All.
E.R. 412(414). "But acquiescence sufficient to constitute
the offence may be established by evidence of the accused
person's motive and of his subsequent conduct 1951 (1)
All. E.R. 464." In the category of "accessory before the fact" comes a
person who "procures or advises" one or more of the
principals to commit the felony. This "requires from him
an instigation so active that a person who is merely
shown to have acted as the stakeholder for a prize-fight
which ended fatally, would not be punishable as an
accessory 1875, 2 C.C.R. 147." "The fact that a crime has
been committed in a manner different from the mode
which the accessory had advised will not excuse him from
liability for it. But a man who has counselled a crime does
not become liable as an accessory if. Instead of any form
of the crime suggested, an entirely different offence is
committed 1936 (2) All. E.R. 813." Kenny, Kenny's Outlines
of Criminal Law, New ed. by J.W.C. Turner, p. 88, points
out that it is not always easy to decide whether or not the
crime actually committed comes within the terms of the
"incitement." so as to make the inciter legally responsible
for it. He further observed that the courts in some of the
older cases tended to "take a strict view of the facts" and
refers by illustration to the case of R. v. Saunders, Kel. 52
(T.A.C.) and Archer in 1578. referred to in Plowden.
xxxxx 16. Halsbury, in Halsbury's Law of England, 4th ed. Paras. 42
to 44 notice some of the English decisions in the matter of
classification of offence and complicity in the crime.
Thus, a person who "assists the perpetrator at the time of 15 2025:HHC:25011

its commission, or if he assists or encourages the
perpetrator before its commission, was held liable 1970
(2) Q.B. 54. According to R.V. Gregory (1867) L.R.I. C.C.R. 77
"any person who aids, counsels or procures the
commission of an offence, whether an offence at common
law or by statute, and whether indictable or summary, is
liable to be tried and punished as a principal offender."
Mere presence at the commission of the crime is not
enough to create criminal liability, nor is it enough that a
person is present with a secret intention to assist the
principal should assistance be required. Some
encouragement or assistance must have been given to the
principal either before or at the time of the commission of
the crime with the intention of furthering its commission.
Presence without more may, however, afford some
evidence of aid and encouragement. It is an indictable
offence at common law for a person to incite or solicit
another to commit an offence. For an incitement to be
complete, there must be some form of actual
communication with a person whom it is intended to
incite, where, however, a communication is sent with a
view to inciting, but does not reach the intended
recipient, the sender may be guilty of an attempt to incite.
Incitement is complete though the mind of the person
incited is unaffected, and notwithstanding that person
incited intends to inform on the inciter; but there can be
no incitement unless one person seeks to persuade or
encourage another. Halsbury's Laws of England, Paras. 42
to 44. xxxxx 18. Some later decisions arising out of other instances of
instigation throw further light on the question. In the
case of Parimal Chatterjee and others
MANU/WB/0073/1932: A.I.R 1932 Cal. 760, a Division Bench
of the Calcutta High Court observed that the word
"instigate" literally means to goad or urge forward or to
provoke, incite, urge or encourage to do an act. A person
may, however, not only instigate another, but he may co- 2025:HHC:25011

operate with him, and his Co-operation may consist of a
conjoint action, and that would amount to abetment. In
the case of State of Bihar v. Ranen Nath and other
MANU/BH/0096/1958: A.I.R. 1958 Patna 259, a Division
Bench of the Patna High Court was construing Section 27 of the Industrial Disputes Act which uses the expressions
Instigation and incitement' and observed that the words
"should be read to signify something deeper than a mere
asking of a person to do a particular act. There must be
something in the nature of solicitation to constitute
instigation or incitement" and it was held that the words
seem to convey the meaning "to goad or urge forward or
to provoke or encourage the doing of an act." It was
further observed that what acts should amount to
instigation or incitement within the meaning of that
section will depend upon the "particular facts of each
case", and that in some circumstances a "throw of a
finger" or "a mere turning of the eye' may give rise to an
inference of either "incitement or instigation", and yet in
others even "strong words, expressly used, may not mean
that the person using them was stimulating or suggesting
to anyone to do a particular act." The court expressed the
view that there must be something "tangible" in evidence
to show that the persons responsible for such action were
"deliberately trying to stir up other persons to bring
about a certain object". According to a division bench of
the Calcutta High Court, a person abets the doing of a
thing when he or she, inter alia. "instigates any person to
do that thing." The other modes of abetment, besides
instigation, are "conspiracy and intentional aid". The
word "instigation" literally means "to goad or urge
forward to do an act." "It is something more than co-
operation." In the case of Shri Ram and another,
MANU/SC/0207/1974: 1975 (2) S.C.R. 622, the Supreme
Court observed that in order to constitute abetment, the
abettor must be shown to have "intentionally" aided the
commission of the crime. "Mere proof that the crime
charged could not have been committed without the
interposition of the alleged abetter is not enough 17 2025:HHC:25011

 compliance with the requirements of Section 107". A
 person may, for example, "invite another casually or for a
 friendly purpose and that may facilitate the murder of the
 invitee". But unless the invitation was extended "with
 intent to facilitate the commission of the murder", the
 person inviting cannot be said to have abetted the
 murder. It is not enough that an act on the part of the
 alleged abettor "happens to facilitate the commission of
 the crime". "Intentional aiding and therefore active
 complicity is the gist of the offence of abetment under the
 third paragraph of Section 107".z 15. Thus, the case of the petitioner will not prima facie

fall within the definition of the abetment and he cannot be held

liable under Section 29 of the NDPS Act. 16. In view of the above, there is no reasonable ground to

believe that the petitioner has committed an offence punishable

under Section 27-A of the NDPS Act or had abetted the

possession of commercial quantity of heroin. Hence, he cannot

be detained in custody for an indefinite period. 17. Consequently, the present petition is allowed, and

the petitioner is ordered to be released on bail, subject to his

furnishing bail bonds in the sum of ₹1,00,000/- with one surety

in the like amount to the satisfaction of the learned Trial Court. While on bail, the petitioner will abide by the following

conditions:- 18. It is expressly made clear that in case of violation of

any of these conditions, the prosecution will have the right to

file a petition for cancellation of the bail. 19. The petition stands accordingly disposed of. A copy

of this order be sent to the Jail Superintendent, Lala Lajpat Rai

District & Air Correctional Home, Dharamshala and the learned

Trial Court by FASTER. 2025:HHC:25011 20. The observations made hereinabove are regarding

the disposal of this petition and will have no bearing,

whatsoever, on the case's merits. (Rakesh Kainthla)
 Judge

30th July, 2025
 (ravinder) Digitally signed by KARAN SINGH DN: C=IN, O=HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL

 KARAN PRADESH SHIMLA,
 Phone=e5d61f6599be410af7c5f0b57379e22
 5878f23c9ea27b281046985b3b1fe0b75,
 PostalCode=171001, S=Himachal Pradesh,
 SERIALNUMBER=f72cf9165791d55ec93937

 SINGH
 5291962d0d90d094876bd59591426c0b1ce6
 51f01f, CN=KARAN SINGH
 Reason: I am the author of this document
 Location: