The present criminal petition is filed seeking to quash FIR

No. 943 of 2020 dated 19.09.2020 registered by P.S. Madhapur

under Sections 406 and 420 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 5 of the Telangana Protection of Depositors of Financial

Establishments Act, 1999. 2. Heard Mr. K. Ramakrishna Reddy learned Senior

Counsel representing Mr. K. Manoj Reddy learned counsel for the

Petitioner, Mr. T. Jayant Jaisoorya learned counsel for Respondent

No. 2 and Mr. Khaja Vizart Ali learned Assistant Public

Prosecutor. Facts of the case 3. The Petitioner herein is the director in M/s. Teji Mandi

Analytics Pvt. Ltd. (hereinafter 'TMAPL'). The said TMAPL is an

authorised person of another company M/s. Anugrah Stock and

Broking Pvt. Ltd. (hereinafter 'ASBPL') which is a stock broking

firm based out of Mumbai and is registered with the National Stock
 KL,J Crl.P. No.9328 of 2021 2 Exchange (hereinafter 'NSE'). The role of TMAPL was to refer

clients to ASBPL for trading of shares. TMAPL in turn received a

share of brokerage for referring the clients to ASBPL. 4. According to Respondent No. 2, he and his wife were

approached by TMAPL's director named Mr. Anil Gandhi to

deposit certain amount in the form of shares and cheque amount in

the scheme run by ASBPL to earn returns to the tune of 1% to

1.5% per month on the deposited amount. The said Anil Gandhi

allegedly promised and assured profits if amount is invested in

ASBPL's scheme. Relying on the alleged statements and

assurances of Mr. Anil Gandhi, the Petitioner and his wife opened a

trading account in ASBPL and deposited an amount of Rs. 20 lakhs

through bank transfer and deposited shares worth of Rs. 53.30

lakhs. 5. Respondent No. 2 further alleges that he had received

returns only from January 2020 to May 2020. After May 2020 no

returns as promised by TMAPL and ASBPL were received.

According to Respondent No. 2, various requests were made to

transfer funds/securities and closure of his account with ASBPL. KL,J Crl.P. No.9328 of 2021 3 No details were provided by the directors of TMAPL and ASBPL

regarding the latest credit balances of Respondent No. 2 and the

server of ASBPL was shut down in August 2020. 6. Respondent No. 2 alleging fraud, cheating and

misappropriation of funds had filed FIR No. 943 of 2020 on

19.09.2021 which was registered under Sections 406 and 420 of the

Indian Penal Code and Section 5 of the Telangana Protection of

Depositors of Financial Establishments Act, 1999. In the said FIR,

the Petitioner is arraigned as Accused No. 7. 7. The said FIR is sought to be quashed by the Petitioner in

the present case. 8. Contentions of the Petitioner i) The Petitioner is named as an accused solely because she

 is a director in TMAPL. However, she is not involved in the

 management and day to day affairs of the company. She is not

 aware of the financial transactions of the company and has

 never drawn any salary and remuneration from TAMPL for her

 role as a director. KL,J Crl.P. No.9328 of 2021 4 ii) All the allegations against TMAPL are against Anil

Gandhi who was responsible for the running of business and was

also the authorised signatory of TMAPL. iii) Further, Anil Gandhi admitted in a complaint filed by

TMAPL before the Economic Offences Wing that the Petitioner

was not involved in the day-to-day activities of TMAPL. iv) Petitioner herself is aggrieved by the fraud committed by

ASBPL as she and her family members have suffered a loss of

more than Rs. 200 Crores. v) The complaint and the FIR do not disclose any specific

act attributable to the Petitioner. Therefore, in absence of any

specific allegations a director of a company cannot be arraigned as

an accused. Reliance was placed on Sunil Bharti Mittal v.

Central Bureau of Investigation1 and S.M.S. Pharmaceuticals v.

Neeta Bhalla2 . vi) The concept of vicarious liability is not applicable to

criminal law unless it is specifically provided for in the statute. No

such concept is recognised for offences committed under the IPC . 1 . (2014) 4 SCC 609 2 . (2005) 8 SCC 89. KL,J Crl.P. No.9328 of 2021 5 vii) Therefore, the Petitioner cannot be held liable for the

acts done by TMAPL in the absence of any specific role attributed

to her. Reliance was placed on Ravindranatha Bajpe v.

Mangalore Special Economic Zone3 . ix) No prima facie case has been made out as none of the

ingredients of Sections 406 and 420 of the Indian Penal Code are

made out. Reliance was placed on Archana Rana v. State of

Uttar Pradesh4 , R.K. Vijayasarathy v. Sudha Seetharam5 , Binod Kumar v. State of Bihar6 and Mitesh Kumar J. Sha v.

State of Karnataka7 . x) Ingredients of Section 5 of the Telangana Protection of

Depositors of Financial Establishments Act, 1999 are also not

satisfied as neither TMAPL nor the Petitioner have accepted any

deposits and they do not fall within the definition of financial

establishment under Section 2(c) of the Act, 1999. 3 . 2021 SCC OnLine SC 806. . (2021) 3 SCC 751. . (2019) 16 SCC 739. . (2014) 10 SCC 663. . 2021 SCC OnLine 976. KL,J Crl.P. No.9328 of 2021 6 9. Contentions of Respondent Nos. 1 and 2 i) The allegations disclose commission of a large-scale fraud

involving conspiracy between various entities like the National

Stock Exchange, ASBPL, TMAPL, Edelweiss Custodial Services

Private Limited and other individuals including directors and key

managerial personnel of these entities. ii) Anil Gandhi who is Accused No. 6 acting on behalf of

TMAPL induced Respondent No. 2 herein and various other people

to invest in the scheme of ASBPL. iii) The case is still at the stage of investigation and the role

played by the Petitioner in the perpetration of fraud will come to

light after the completion of investigation. iv) Reliance was placed in Neeharika Infrastructure

Private Limited v. State of Maharashtra8 , to contend that the

impugned FIR cannot be quashed. Findings of the Court 10. A bare reading of the complaint and the statements of

witnesses reveals that various people invested money in the form 8 . AIR 2021 SC 1918
 KL,J Crl.P. No.9328 of 2021 7 shares with ASBPL. The said ASBPL used the deposited money

for the purposes other than trading and has failed to provide the

details to its investors regarding their shareholding and returns. All

the examined witnesses allege that it was through Mr. Anil Gandhi

and TMAPL that they deposited money with ASBPL. 11. While it is true that the FIR does not ascribe any specific

role to the Petitioner, given the facts of the case and the

involvement of various entities and regulators, this Court feels that

seeking a quash of the FIR at the stage of investigation is a

premature relief which cannot be granted. 12. The Supreme Court has time and again held that an FIR

is not an encyclopedia and it need not disclose all the facts relating

to the offence. In CBI v. Tapan Kumar Singh9 , the Supreme

Court has held as follows: Therefore, it is only after the investigation is completed and the

final report is filed that the role of the petitioner in commission of

the offence can be ascertained. 13. Further, reliance on the decision in Sunil Bharti Mittal (Supra) and other decisions by the Petitioner is misplaced as the

investigation is still underway. Regarding the culpability of

Directors in offences committed by a company, the Supreme Court

has held as follows: 14. Therefore, where on perusal of the evidence, if the court

does not find any specific role attributed to the Directors only then

criminal proceedings can be quashed. According to this Court,

where the case is only at the stage of investigation and no charge

sheet is filed and the role of the Petitioner in commission of the

offence is unclear, the proceedings cannot be quashed. 15. In Neeharika Infrastructure Private Limited (Supra),

the Supreme Court relying on its previous decisions has laid down

the following factors to be considered while exercising the powers

under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C. : KL,J Crl.P. No.9328 of 2021 13 xi) Extraordinary and inherent powers of the Court do not
confer an arbitrary jurisdiction on the Court to act
according to its whims or caprice; xii) The first information report is not an encyclopedia
which must disclose all facts and details relating to the
offence reported. Therefore, when the investigation by the
police is in progress, the court should not go into the
merits of the allegations in the FIR. Police must be
permitted to complete the investigation. It would be
premature to pronounce the conclusion based on hazy facts
that the complaint/FIR does not deserve to be investigated
or that it amounts to abuse of process of law. During or
after investigation, if the investigating officer finds that
there is no substance in the application made by the
complainant, the investigating officer may file an
appropriate report/summary before the learned Magistrate
which may be considered by the learned Magistrate in
accordance with the known procedure; xiii) The power under Section 482 Cr.P.C. is very wide,
but conferment of wide power requires the court to be
cautious. It casts an onerous and more diligent duty on the
court; xiv) However, at the same time, the court, if it thinks fit,
regard being had to the parameters of quashing and the
self-restraint imposed by law, more particularly the
parameters laid down by this Court in the cases of R.P.
Kapur (supra) and Bhajan Lal (supra), has the jurisdiction
to quash the FIR/complaint; and
 KL,J Crl.P. No.9328 of 2021 14 xv) When a prayer for quashing the FIR is made by the
 alleged accused, the court when it exercises the power
 under Section 482 Cr.P.C., only has to consider whether or
 not the allegations in the FIR disclose the commission of a
 cognizable offence and is not required to consider on
 merits whether the allegations make out a cognizable
 offence or not and the court has to permit the investigating
 agency/police to investigate the allegations in the FIR." 16. Similarly, in Skoda Auto Volkswagen India Private

Limited v. The State of Uttar Pradesh10 , the Apex Court

referring to the earlier judgments rendered by it has categorically

held that the High Courts in exercise of its inherent powers under

Section - 482 of Cr.P.C has to quash the proceedings in criminal

cases in rarest of rare cases with extreme caution. 17. As stated above, given the nature of allegations and the

fraud involved this Court is not inclined to scuttle the investigation

by the authorities at this stage. Therefore, the present criminal

petition is liable to be dismissed. 18. The present Criminal Petition is accordingly dismissed. 10 . AIR 2021 SC 931
 KL,J Crl.P. No.9328 of 2021 15 As a sequel, miscellaneous petitions, if any, pending in the

Criminal Petition shall stand closed. _________________
 K. LAKSHMAN, J
12th April, 2022
Mgr