and order of sentence dated 10.9.2015 passed by the

 learned 2nd Additional District and Sessions Judge, Saran,

 Chapra in Sessions Trial no.105A of 2007 (arising out of

 Dariyapur P.S. Case no.33 of 2005) whereby the accused Sanjay

 Rai was convicted under sections 302 and 307 / 34 of the Indian

 Penal Code and section 27 of the Arms Act and sentenced to

 undergo life imprisonment under section 302 of the Indian Penal

 Code, R.I. for 10 years under section 307 / 34 of the Indian Penal

 Code and R.I. for 7 years with a fine of Rs.30,000/ under section

 27 of the Arms Act, with a further order to undergo S.I. for one

 year in case of default in payment of fine. The other accused

 namely Awadhesh Rai, Arvind Rai, Manoj Rai, Mukesh Rai,

 Shyama Rai and Rameshwar Rai were convicted under sections
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.946 of 2015 dt.09-02-2022 3/17 302/34 and 307/34 of the Indian Penal Code and sentenced to

 undergo life imprisonment under section 302 / 34 of the Indian

 Penal Code and R.I. for 10 years and fine of Rs.30,000/ for the

 sentence under section 307 / 34 of the Indian Penal Code, with

 further order to undergo S.I. for one year in case of default in

 payment of fine. Dariyapur P.S. Case no.33 of 2005 was registered on

 4.5.2005 on the fardbeyan of Amod Kumar Gupta (P.W.1)

 recorded by S.I. Sanjay Kumar, Police Station Dariyapur

 District Saran at Chapra on 4.5.2005 at 15.00 hours wherein he

 alleges that about a week ago accused Ajay Rai came as a

 customer at the jewelry shop of his uncle Ram Chandra Sah

 (PW3) in Dariyapur Bazar. In course of purchase of jewelry, he

 asked for a loan. On not agreeing to give a loan there was

 altercation which turned into a fight. The fight was settled

 between the parties. However on the same day after about 2-4

 hours Mithilesh Kumar was taken away from the shop and

 beaten up with slaps. At the time Sipahi Rai and Rajeshwar Rai

 reached and threatened the jewelers of the area that they would

 be killed and destroyed. It is alleged that belonging to the

 business class, not much attention was paid to the threats. On

 4.5.2005 at about 1 pm accused persons riding on about 4-5
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.946 of 2015 dt.09-02-2022 4/17 motorcycles, i.e Sipahi Rai, Rajan Rai, Arvind Rai, Sanjay Rai,

 Mukesh Rai, Mahesh Rai, Shailesh Rai, Awadhesh Rai, Manoj

 Rai and other unknown persons came variously armed with

 katta, pistol, carbine and bomb. Reaching the shop of Kishori

 Sah they resorted to firing as a result of which Shivnath Sah

 died on the spot. Seeing the occurrence Pancham Prasad entered

 into his house. It is stated that thereafter the accused persons

 resorted to firing at the door of Dina Sah followed by

 Tribhuwan Sah, the shop of Shivpujan Sah and the door of

 Madan Sah. Madan Sah sustained bomb injuries in his leg and

 fell down. Thereafter the accused persons proceeded to the

 shop of the Amod Kumar Gupta (informant) where Rajeshwar

 Rai struck the informant with the butt of his pistol on his

 forehead as a result of which he sustained injuries. On the son of

 the informant namely, Vivash Kumar @ Sonu (P.W.4) coming

 there, he was shot by Rajeshwar Rai with the pistol. The shot hit

 him in his hand as also his chest and he was seriously injured.

 On the younger brother of the informant namely, Chhathi Lal

 Gupta coming there, it is alleged that on the orders of

 Rameshwar Rai, Shailesh Rai fired hitting Chhathi Lal Gupta in

 his chest as a result of which he died on the spot. It is further

 alleged that firing was also carried out in the shop of Mithilesh
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.946 of 2015 dt.09-02-2022 5/17 Sah as also on the shops of Subash Prasad and Dayanand Sah.

 The informant states that Sanjay Rai shot Shivnath Sah as a

 result of which he died in the shop itself and injured Madan

 Prasad Postmaster, Vikash Kumar @ Sonu (PW4) were referred

 to PMCH, Patna for treatment. The informant was treated at the

 Primary Health Centre, Dariyapur. The accused persons escaped

 in north direction. On the basis of the aforesaid oral statement of the

 informant, a formal F.I.R. was registered on 4.5.2005 at 16.30

 hours and investigation was taken up. After completion of

 investigation chargesheet was submitted under section 302 and

 other sections of the Indian Penal Code and section 27 of the

 Arms Act against accused Mahesh Rai and a supplementary

 chargesheet was submitted under section 302 and other sections

 of the Indian Penal Code , section 27 of the Arms Act and

 section ¾ of the Explosive Substances Act against the accused

 Sipahi Rai, Shailesh Rai and Sanjay Rai. So far as the seven appellants herein are concerned,

 final form was submitted for lack of evidence against them. By

 order dated 5.8.2005 in connection with the supplementary

 chargesheet submitted on 9.4.2007, cognizance of the offence

 was taken and on commitment of the case Sessions Trial no.105
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.946 of 2015 dt.09-02-2022 6/17 of 2007 was registered for the trial of Shailesh Rai, Rajeshwar

 Rai and Sipahi Rai. Shailesh Rai having absconded, Sessions

 Trial no.105 of 2007 proceed against Rajeshwar Rai and Sipahi

 Rai. In course of trial, by order order dated 26.6.2008 summons

 were issued under section 319 of the Code of Criminal

 Procedure (' Cr.P.C .' in short) against the seven appellants

 herein. The trial of the seven appellants were split and registered

 as Sessions Trial no.105 A/2007. The learned trial Court framed charges against the

 appellants under sections 302 / 34 and 307 / 34 of the Indian

 Penal Code and section 27 of the Arms Act. In order to establish

 the charges the prosecution examined seven witnesses, they

 being P.W.1 Amod Kumar Gupta, the informant as also an

 injured witness P.W.2, Mohan Prasad, eye witness to part of the

 occurrence, P.W.3 Ram Chandra Sah, eye witness to part of

 occurrence, P.W.4 Vikash Kumar son of the informant as also an

 injured witness, P.W.5 Mithilesh Kumar Gupta, eye witness to

 part of the occurrence, P.W.6 Dr. Akhileshwar Kumar, who

 examined the injured and P.W.7 Kameshwar Ram, Investigating

 Officer of the case. P.W.1 Amod Kumar Gupta in his deposition states that he

 is the informant of the case as also an injured eye witness to part
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.946 of 2015 dt.09-02-2022 7/17 of the occurrence. He supports the genesis of the occurrence of

 Ajay Rai having come to purchase jewelry at the shop of his

 uncle Ram Chandra Sah (PW3) and altercation having started

 on refusal of loan being asked for by Ajay Rai. The matter was

 settled. With reference to the occurrence the witness states that at

 about 1 pm the accused persons including the seven appellants

 herein came on different motorcycles. This witness saw Sanjay

 Rai shoot Shiv Nath Sah in his chest leading to his death.

 Rajeshwar Rai struck P.W.1 with the butt of his pistol on his

 forehead leading to him being injured and on his son Vikash

 Kumar @ Sonu (P.W.4) coming there, Rajeshwar Rai fired

 hitting the son of this witness in his chest. Further on the orders

 of Rameshwar Rai, Shailesh Rai shot Chhathi Lal Rai with the

 pistol who having sustained bullet injury in his chest died on the

 spot. In his cross examination this witness admits to pendency

 of title suit between the parties. He further states that he is not

 an eye witness to the part of occurrence which took place at the

 shop of Kishori Sah and the door of the Madan Sah. P.W.2 Mohan Prasad in his deposition states himself to

 be an eye witness to part of occurrence and supports the case of

 the prosecution against the accused persons. He states that on
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.946 of 2015 dt.09-02-2022 8/17 hearing the sound of bomb and pistol he came out of his house.

 He saw his brother running having sustained injury as a result of

 bomb blast. He supports the allegation of Rajeshwar Rai having

 assaulted P.W.1 with the butt of his pistol and further of him

 having shot P.W.4 in his chest. With respect to the cause of

 occurrence he states about the genesis of the occurrence being

 the refusal of PW-3 to give loan over purchase of jewelry to

 Ajay Rai, the altercation over the same turning into a fight

 which was settled by separating the parties. He further states

 about an occurrence having placed 3-4 hours later on the same

 day when Mithilesh, son of PW-3 was beaten up. The accused

 had threatened to teach them a lesson in his cross examination.

 This witness states about coming out of his house on hearing the

 sound of bomb and pistol and of having seen his brother

 running, having sustained injuries in his legs from the bomb

 blast. He was taken to the hospital. The witness states that the

 accused persons including the seven appellants herein had come

 variously armed with bomb pistol etc. on five motorcycles. P.W.3 Ram Chandra Sah states that on 4.5.2005 at about

 1 pm while he was at his door, he saw the twelve accused

 persons on about 4-5 motorcycles. The accused persons were

 variously armed with katta, bomb, carbine and included the
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.946 of 2015 dt.09-02-2022 9/17 seven appellants herein. He states that he went on the terrace of

 his house and saw Sanjay Rai shoot Shiv Nath Sah.

 Subsequently, he learnt about the assault on Mandan PW-1 and

 PW-4 as also the death of Chhathi Lal Rai. He states about the

 motive of occurrence being the altercation which had taken

 place between him and Ajay Rai and subsequent to which on the

 same day, the accused persons namely, Sipahi Rai, Rajeshwar

 Rai, Arvind Rai and Sanjay Rai had forcibly taken away his son

 Mithilesh on the road and had beaten him up. In his cross

 examination this witness states that on the date of occurrence,

 on hearing bomb blast he had gone on the terrace of his house

 and having hidden himself had seen the occurrence from there. P.W.4 Vikash Kumar @ Sonu besides being the son of the

 informant of the case also happens to be an injured witness. In

 his deposition he states that while he was coming to have bath,

 on hearing the sound of bomb and pistol he came and saw the

 accused person including the seven appellants herein. He states

 that Rajeshwar Rai struck with butt of his pistol on the forehead

 of his father (PW-1) On this witness attempting to run away,

 Rajeshwar Rai fired as a result of which he sustained firearm

 injury. On Chhathi Lal Rai coming to their rescue he states that

 Shailesh Rai fired on him as a result of which he fell down and
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.946 of 2015 dt.09-02-2022 10/17 died. Both Chhathi Lal Rai and Shiv Nath Sah died on the spot.

 He denies their being any land dispute between the parties. P.W.5 Mithilesh Kumar Gupta states that accused persons

 including the seven appellants herein came on motorcycles with

 arms. They shot dead Chhathi Lal and Shiv Nath, Sonu Kumar

 and Vikash Kumar (PW-4) sustained firearm injury, Madan

 Prasad Gupta sustained bomb injury while Amod Kumar (PW-1)

 was assaulted with the butt of the gun on his head. He states

 about the cause of occurrence was Ajay Rai demanding jewelry

 on credit which was refused. Subsequently the accused persons

 had beaten up Mithilesh. On intervention of others the accused

 persons had gone away threatening that they would be taught a

 lesson. This witness further states that all the accused persons

 including the appellants herein came variously armed with gun,

 carbine, country made pistol etc. They started to hurl bombs and

 shot dead Chhathi Lal and Shiv Nath. Sonu Kumar and PW-4

 also sustained gunshot injures while Madan Prasad was injuries

 as a result of bomb blast. This witness saw PW-1 being struck

 on the head with the butt of a petrol. P.W.6 Dr. Akhileshwar Kumar is the doctor who

 examined the injured Vikash Kumar (PW4), Madan Prasad and
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.946 of 2015 dt.09-02-2022 11/17 Amod Kumar Gupta (informant/PW 1). He has proved the

 injury reports. P.W.7 Kameshwar Ram is the Investigating Officer of the

 case. Heard learned counsel for the appellant and learned

 counsel for the State. It is submitted by learned counsel appearing for the

 appellant that from the materials available on record it would

 transpire that the prosecution witnesses had the occasion to meet

 the police prior to lodging of the present fardbeyan and thus no

 fardbeyan having been recorded, the earliest version had been

 supressed. Further none of the prosecution witnesses can be said

 to be an eye witness to the occurrence. The appellants were not

 sent up for trial and it was subsequently that they were

 summoned for facing trial in the instant case under section 319

 of the Cr. P.C. In the connected trial being Sessions Trial no.105

 of 2005, coaccused Shailesh Rai having already been acquitted,

 learned trial Court committed illegality in convicting the

 appellants and the instant appeal should be allowed. On the other hand it is submitted by learned counsel for

 the State that the prosecution witnesses were not only eye

 witness to the occurrence but some of them are also injured
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.946 of 2015 dt.09-02-2022 12/17 witnesses. They have been consistent in their case with respect

 to place and manner of occurrence. Being injured witnesses,

 their deposition carries much weight as their presence at the

 place of occurrence cannot be doubted. The learned trial Court

 has passed a well reasoned judgment and has rightly convicted

 and sentenced the appellants herein. The question to be determined is as to whether the

 prosecution has been able to prove its case against the seven

 appellants beyond all reasonable doubts? As per the prosecution case based on the fardbeyan to

 P.W.1 the genesis of the occurrence is the altercation which took

 place as a result of PW-3 refusing to give jewelry on credit to

 the accused Ajay Rai. Although the fight between them was

 settled, however on the same day a few hours later the accused

 persons forcibly took PW-5 who also happens to be son of PW-3

 from the shop and beat him up on the chauraha. On intervention

 of others they had gone away threatening that they would teach

 them a lesson. The occurrence is said to have taken place on

 4.5.2005 at 1 pm. Although the occurrence took place in

 continuity one after the other, however, it can be stated that

 there were three places of occurrence. Firstly, the shop of

 Kishori Sah, secondly the shop of the informant PW- 1 and
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.946 of 2015 dt.09-02-2022 13/17 thereafter the door of Madan Sah. So far as the seven witnesses examined on behalf of the

 prosecution in the trial are concerned, P.W.6 was Dr. Akhilesh

 Kumar who examined the injured and P.W.7 Kameshwar Rai

 was one of the Investigating Officers of the case. Besides these

 two, P.W.1 was an injured eye witness who also happens to be

 the father of P.W.4, another injured witness. These two

 witnesses were with respect to the first place the occurrence

 which took place at the shop of Kishori Sah. P.W.2 is the brother

 of injured Madan Sah and this witness is with respect to the

 occurrence which took place at the door of Madan Sah. Further

 P.W.3 besides being an eye witness is also the father of P.W. 5

 who is also an injured witness. Both P.W.3 and P.W.5 are also

 witness with respect to the occurrence which had taken place at

 the shop of P.W.3 a week before the occurrence and which is

 said to be the genesis of the occurrence. So far as the occurrence

 which took place about a week ago at the shop of P.W.3 both

 P.W.3 and his son P.W.5 have in their deposition categorically

 stated that a week before the occurrence, on refusal of PW-3 to

 give jewelry on credit there was altercation between PW-3 and

 Ajay Rai. The fight between the two was settled on the

 intervention of others, however just a few hours later Rajeshwar
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.946 of 2015 dt.09-02-2022 14/17 Rai, Sipahi Rai and Ajay Rai forcibly took away P.W.5 and

 assaulted him with slaps etc. both the witnesses further state that

 once again on the intervention of others, the accused persons

 went away threatening that they would teach them a lesson. All the witnesses i.e P.W.1, P.W.2, P.W.3, P.W.4 and P.W.5

 name the appellants herein. They categorically state in their

 deposition that they saw all the accused persons including the

 appellants herein on the date of occurrence come variously

 armed with and bombs on five motorcycles. All the witnesses

 consistently state that the accused resorted to firing at the shop

 of Kishori Sah leading to death of Shiv Nath Sah on the spot.

 Thereafter the occurrence took place at the shop of P.W.1 where

 PW-1 was struck by the butt of a pistol, PW-4 was shot at by

 Rajeshwar Rai and Chhathi Lal Gupta (brother of PW-1) was

 shot dead. Thereafter the occurrence took place at the door step

 of Madan Sah where as a result of the bomb hurled, Madan Sah

 sustained injuries in his leg and fell down. So far as the occurrence which took place about a week

 ago at the shop of P.W.3 is concerned, both P.W.3 and his son

 P.W.5 have in their deposition categorically stated that a week

 before the occurrence, on refusal of PW-3 to give jewelry on

 credit there was altercation between PW-3 and Ajay Rai. The
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.946 of 2015 dt.09-02-2022 15/17 fight between the two was settled on the intervention of others,

 however just a few hours later Rajeshwar Rai, Sipahi Rai and

 Ajay Rai forcibly took away P.W.5 and assaulted him with slaps

 etc. Both the witnesses further state that once again on the

 intervention of others, the accused persons went away

 threatening that they would teach them a lesson. With respect to the occurrence which took place at the

 shop of Kishori Sah P.W.1, P.W.3, P.W.4 and P.W.5 all

 consistently support the case of the prosecution about Sanjay

 Rai having shot Shiv Nath Sah as a result of which Shiv Nath

 Sah sustained gunshot injuries and died on the spot. The

 postmortem report of the said Shiv Nath Sah also confirms the

 gunshot injury from close range and the doctor has opined the

 cause of death to be haemorrhage and shock due to firearm

 injury. So far as the occurrence which is said to have taken place

 at the shop of PW-1 is concerned, once again the injured

 witnesses P.W.1 and his son P.W.4 have consistently stated in

 their deposition that all the accused persons including the

 appellants herein came variously armed. Amongst them

 Rajeshwar Rai struck PW-1 with butt of the pistol causing

 injuries. Further on P.W.4 coming there, on making an attempt
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.946 of 2015 dt.09-02-2022 16/17 to escape he was fired upon by Rajeshwar Rai as a result of

 which P.W.4 sustained gunshot injuries. On hearing the sound,

 on Chhathi Lal Gupta (brother of P.W.1 and uncle of P.W.4)

 coming there it is stated that on the orders of Rameshwar Rai,

 Shailesh Rai shot at Chhathi Lal Gupta hitting him in his chest

 as a result of which he fell down and died. The aforesaid P.W.1

 and P.W.4 were both examined by the doctor i.e P.W.6. who in

 his deposition has supported the prosecution case. With respect to the occurrence which took place at the

 door of Madan Sah. P.W.2 brother of Madan Sah in his

 deposition has stated that on the date of occurrence he was at his

 home when had saw the accused persons including the seven

 appellants herein come variously armed with bomb, pistol etc.

 on five motorcycles. On the shop of Shiv Nath, Shiv Nath Sah

 was shot dead followed by the assault on the shop of PW-1

 where injuries were caused to him, his son PW-4 and his brother

 was killed by Shailesh Rai. He supports the occurrence which

 took place a week ago at the shop of PW-3. He further states

 that on hearing the sound of bomb blast and firing, on coming

 out he saw his brother Madan running towards the house having

 sustained bomb injuries in both his legs. Thus from the

 deposition of witnesses in course of trial, it transpires that the
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.946 of 2015 dt.09-02-2022 17/17 witnesses have consistently supported the occurrence at all the

 three places of occurrence i.e the shop of Kishori Sah, the shop

 of PW-1 and at the house of Madan Sah. Further the witnesses

 are eye witness to the occurrence and their deposition inspires

 confidence. So far as the inconsistencies in the depositions are

 concerned, the same are trivial in nature and one which would

 be expected when the witnesses are not tutored. Thus in the facts of the case as discussed above, the

 prosecution has been able to prove the manner time and also the

 place of occurrence. The prosecution having proved the case

 beyond all reasonable doubts, in the opinion of the Court, there

 is no illegality in the judgments impugned and thus the

 conviction and the sentence of the appellants are upheld. The appeals stand dismissed.