in connection with CBI Special Case RC-04/S/2014, CBI, SPE, SCB, SIT,
Kolkata under Sections 420 / 409 / 406 of the Indian Penal Code. Mr. Anindya Mitra,
Mr. Sekhar Kumar Basu,
Mr. Joydeep Kar,
Mr. Avishek Sinha,
Mrs. Anasuya Sinha,
Mr. Somopriyo Choudhury
 ...For the
Petitioner. Mr. K. Raghavacharyulu,
Md. Ashraf Ali
 ... For the CBI. This application has been filed under Section 439 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure by the petitioner, who has been in jail custody. It appears that the
petitioner has been in custody for about 32 days. We have perused the entire
Case Diary. The records reveal that the Saradha Group of Companies had floated several
schemes, which were allegedly fraudulent to allure the depositors, and collected
deposits on the promise of attractive returns. This allegedly fraudulent (ponzi) schemes included land allotment schemes, flat
allotment schemes, tours and travel scheme etc.

Many economically underpriviledged people have been allured by the fraudulent
(ponzi) schemes to invest relatively small amounts on the promise of lucrative
returns. These (ponzi) schemes were allegedly in violation of the Securities and
Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 , Reserve Bank of India Act, 1935 , Companies
Act, 1956 and the Income Tax Act, 1961 , inter alia by resort to fraudulent
certification, non-compliance of accounting standards, material misstatement of
facts etc.

Failure of the Saradha Group of Companies to refund deposits collected from the
public led to public outcry. A commission of enquiry was constituted to
investigate into the scam and recommend remedial action to the State Government.
Cases were initiated against the Saradha Group Companies and their office
bearers and cases were investigated by the State Police.
 Several writ petitions were filed seeking transfer of investigation from the
State Police to CBI. By an order dated 9th May, 2014 in Writ Petition (Civil)
No. 401/2013 ( Subrata Chattoraj Vs. Union of India and Ors. ) heard along with
other writ petitions, the Supreme Court allowed the writ petitions and directed
transfer of investigation from the State Police Agency to the Central Bureaue of
Investigation (CBI). The CBI was given the freedom to conduct further
investigation in terms of Section 173(8) of the Criminal Procedure Code to
investigate the larger conspiracy angle in relation to cases where charge sheet
had already been presented. By its judgement and order dated 9th May, 2014 the Supreme Court made it clear
that investigation was not to be confined only to those directly involved in the
affairs of the Saradha Group of Companies, but might extend to several others
who needed to be questioned with regard to their role in the sequence of events.
It is in pursuance of the judgment of the Supreme Court that investigation has
been taken up by the CBI. In Subrata Chattoraj vs. Union of India & Ors. being Writ Petition (Civil)
No.401 of 2013 which was heard along with several other writ petitions, the
Supreme Court inter alia observed and directed as follows: Mr. Mitra, Senior Advocate, appearing on behalf of the petitioner, cited the
judgment of the Supreme Court in Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre Vs. State of
Maharashtra and Ors. reported in (2011) 1 SCC 694 where the Supreme Court held
as follows: to require a person to submit to custody, remain in prison for some days and
then apply for bail even when there are reasonable grounds for holding that the
person accused of an offence is not likely to abscond or otherwise misuse his
liberty. Discretionary power to order anticipatory bail is required to be
exercised keeping in mind these sentiments and spirit of the judgments of this
Court in Sibbia case and Joginder Kumar v. State of U.P.
 Arrest should be the last option and it should be restricted to those
exceptional cases where arresting the accused is imperative in the facts and
circumstances of that case. The court must carefully examine the entire
available record and particularly the allegations which have been directly
attributed to the accused and these allegations are corroborated by other
material and circumstances on record. Personal liberty is a very precious fundamental right and it should be curtailed
only when it becomes imperative according to the peculiar facts and
circumstances of the case. In case the arrest is imperative, according to the facts of the case, in that
event, the arresting officer must clearly record the reasons for the arrest of
the accused before the arrest in the case diary, but in exceptional cases where
it becomes imperative to arrest the accused immediately, the reasons be recorded
in the case diary immediately after the arrest is made without loss of any time
so that the court has an opportunity to properly consider the case for grant or
refusal of bail in the light of reasons recorded by the arresting officer. Mr. Mitra also cited Sanjay Chandra Vs. Central Bureau of Investigation ,
reported in (2012) 1 Supreme Court Cases 40, where the Supreme Court held as
follows: On the other hand, Mr. Raghavacharyulu Konduri cited the judgment of the Supreme
Court in Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy Vs. Central Bureau of Investigation reported in
(2013) 7 SCC 439 where the Supreme Court held:- Mr. Raghavacharyulu Konduri also cited Central Bureau of Investigation Vs. V.
Vijay Sai Reddy reported in (2013) 7 SCC 452 where the Supreme Court held:- On perusal of the materials in the case diary produced before us, we are of the
view that there are reasonable grounds for detention of the petitioner. At this
crucial stage of investigation, release of the petitioner on bail would
seriously hamper the investigation. We are not oblivious of the ignominy, humiliation and disgrace attached to
arrest. We are conscious arrest leads to serious consequences not only for the
accused, but also, persons associated with the accused. However, we are cast
with the duty of balancing societal interest with individual interest. Section 41(1)(a) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 provides as follows:- The police officer has power to arrest without any order from a Magistrate and
without a warrant, any person who is concerned with any cognizable offence or
against whom a reasonable complaint has been made or credible information has
been received or a reasonable suspicion exists. It is not necessary that the
person sought to be arrested should, beyond all doubt, have actually committed
the offence. After the CBI took over the investigation, several persons were interrogated and
several documents were ceased from different persons. Perusal of the case diary
reveals incriminating materials including statements of Sudipta Sen and others,
which indicate that the petitioner in the instant case acted as a conduit
 between SEBI authorities, RBI authorities and those associated with Saradha
Group. There can be no doubt that it is imperative for the courts to carefully and with
meticulous precision evaluate the facts of each case. The discretion to grant
bail must be exercised on the basis of the available material and the facts of
the particular case. In cases where the Court is of the considered view that
the accused has joined investigation and he is fully cooperating with the
investigating agency and is not likely to abscond, in that event, his custodial
interrogation should ordinarily be avoided. As held by the Supreme Court in Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre Vs. State of
Maharashtra & Ors. (supra) the order granting or refusing bail must reflect
perfect balance between the conflicting interests, namely, sanctity of
individual liberty and the interest of the society. While the court is not
oblivious to the right of the petitioner as an individual, there are, as
observed above, materials in the Case Diary which suggest complicity of the
petitioner. The petitioner apparently acted as a conduit between the Saradha
Group and their associates and various authorities, such as, SEBI and the
Reserve Bank of India. Whether the allegations are correct or not, are not
matters which are to be decided at this stage. The question is whether there
are any prima facie materials and we are unable to hold that there are no prima
facie materials at all to justify the continuation of the petitioner in judicial
custody. It is the case of the CBI that investigation relating to the affairs of the
Saradha Group is at a crucial stage. Evidence including materials seized from
the residence, such as, hard discs, are required to be analyzed and examined.
There is a strong possibility that release of the petitioner at this stage might
impede investigation. If all materials were to be divulged at this stage, the
investigation would seriously be impeded. Having regard to the nature of the allegations, proper investigation is
absolutely essential. The materials seized are under analysis and may
lead to discovery of further materials. At this stage, we are not inclined to
allow the prayer of the petitioner for bail. The prayer for bail is, thus,
rejected. The application for bail is, accordingly, disposed of. ( Indira Banerjee, J. )

 ( Sahidullah Munshi, J. ) 1 8