The petitioner, who is a Grade III PWD (Public Works

Department) Contractor, had entered into an agreement dated

12.3.2003 with the 1st respondent-Agali Grama Panchayat, Palakkad

district, to construct a Panchayat Bustand at Agali for a sum of

Rs.14,90,244/-. As per the work estimate, the petitioner had to level a

hilly terrain by removal of soil and and rock and then to level and tar

the same. The quantity of rock to be blasted and removed was estimated

to be only 45 cubic meters. Consequently, it was estimated that the

remnants of such blasted rock are to be dumped to a place, which is at a

distance within 45 meters from the work site in question. (This distance

of 45 meters is described as the "lead factor" in the estimate of the work

in question). But soon it was discovered that the actual quantity of rock

to be blasted and removed comes to about 4500 cubic meters, which is

about 100 times the estimate in that regard (45 cubic meters).

Accordingly, the 2nd respondent-Chief Engineer, Local Self Government

Department (Public Works), who is the competent authority, issued the

 ::2:: ::3:: But while passing the final bill of the work in question, the 1st

respondent Panchayat authorities had taken into account only the rate

of Rs. 2564/10m3 for medium rock blasting instead of the rates

approved by the Public Works Department of the Government of Kerala

as per Ext.P-2 and further that they had refused to pay any amount

 ::5:: ::11:: Essentially, the only limitation of the High Court is the self-imposed

 ::12:: It would be profitable to refer to paragraph 18 of the aforestated ruling,

which reads as follows: ::13:: 10. During the course of hearing Sri.V.J.James, learned

counsel appearing for the petitioner, fairly submitted that the

petitioner is not pressing his claims with regard to the payments

claimed for the chiseling of the rocks. He would at the same time

submit that, the fact that the petitioner was constrained to do chiseling

work has been fully acknowledged by the Executive Engineer in para 2

of Ext.P-11 dated 14.3.2008. But that, the authorities concerned had

unfairly refused to record the actual quantity of chiseling work done by

the petitioner in the Measurement Book and therefore, in view of lack of

records in that regard in M-Book he would not press the claim for

chiseling work. 11. Therefore, the only two remaining aspects to be considered

by this Court are as to the claim of the petitioner for extra payment for

medium rock blasting on the basis of Ext.P-2 rates approved by the

Public Works Department and the other matter to be examined by this

Court is as to the extra payments claimed by the petitioner for

 ::14:: 12. As regards the first aspect is concerned, the following

matters are relevant:- The matters relating to execution of public works

in Grama Panchayath constituted by the Kerala Panchayath Raj Act,

1994 are governed by statutory rules framed under the said Act,

captioned as the Kerala Panchayath Raj (Execution of Public Works)

Rules, 1997. Rule 18 thereof reads as follows: As stated in para 6 of the counter affidavit dated 4.12.2009 of the 2nd

respondent-Chief Engineer, LSGD, condition No.31 attached to the

agreement in question provided as follows: fI^DaNx^NJm H_xAa5Z %HaXx_:n^O_x_Aa" H_Vm:O_Aa5."

The said condition No.31 broadly provides that the rates for the new

items/additional items of work will be regulated by the rates followed in

the Public Works Department of the Government of Kerala. Therefore,

 ::15:: The 2nd respondent-Chief Engineer, LSGD, has stated in para 10 of the

counter affidavit dated 4.12.2009 as follows: 13. The next aspect to be considered is as to the tenability of the

claim made by the petitioner with regard to extra payment for the work

of transporting and depositing the remnants of the blasted rock. It is

common ground that as per the original estimate, the total quantity of

medium rock that was to be blasted and removed from the site is hardly

from the range of 45 m3. It is also common ground that after the

commencement of work, it is discovered that the estimate for blasting

of medium rock had to face an exponential increase by about atleast

100 times compared to the original estimate. Accordingly, as can be

seen from serial No.1 of Ext.P-1(4) on page 15 of the paper book that as

per the revised estimate the total quantity of medium rock to be blasted

is 4360 m3. It is also common ground that the original estimate

provided for a lead factor of only 50 meters from the work site. As the

original estimate conceived is only a total quantity of blasting of

medium rock in the range of 45 m3, it was quite reasonable to fix the

lead factor at 50 meters as it was expected that blasted rock remnants of

such small quantity could easily be lifted and dumped in nearby places

situated closely within 50 meters from the work site in question. As the

revised estimate of blasted rock underwent an exponential increase by

 ::21:: From a reading of the said materials it is crystal clear that there is no

classification for the said rate as between those transportation which

are lesser than or up to 1 k.m or transportation involving beyond 1 k.m.

The relevant entry clearly stated that it is up to 5 k.m. Therefore, the

considered recommendation in that regard made by the Technical

Committee of the experts on page 2 of Ext.P-10 cannot be said to be

faulty or wrong. On the other hand, materials as per Ext.P-4 and P-5

would clearly show that the nearest places where the petitioner could

 ::28::