(Hybrid Mode)

[Per: Justice Mohd. Faiz Alam Khan, Member (Judicial)]

 The instant appeal has been preferred by the members of the

Suspended Board of Directors of the CD against the order dated 09.05.2023

passed by the Hon'ble National Company Law Tribunal, Delhi Bench in I.A.

No. 2536/2022 in CP No. (IB)-637(PB) 2020, whereby certain transactions

done by the appellants have been designated as fraudulent and they were

directed to contribute Rs. 28 lakhs to the liquidation estate of the CD. 2. Brief facts necessary for the disposal of the instant appeal as are

reflected from the pleadings from the parties are that vide an order dated

25.06.2021 Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process (CIRP) was started

against CD, M/s Temple Leasing and Finance Ltd. and Mr. Arvind Mittal

was appointed as an Interim Resolution Process (IRP) and vide order dated

21.02.2022, he was also confirmed as Resolution Professional (RP). 3. It is further reflected that after approval of the CoC with 100% voting

share Resolution Professional vide I.A. No. 5874/2021 filed an application

under section 33(2) of the Code, to liquidate the corporate debtor and he

was also proposed to be appointed as liquidator of the CD. 4. During the course of proceedings, a Transactional Auditor was

appointed by the liquidator who has submitted a Transaction Audit Report

Company Appeal (AT) (Ins) No.346 of 2024 2 of22
 dated 24.12.2021, after examining the books of accounts of the CD for the

period 01.04.2016 to 25.06.2021. 5. It also reflected that the Respondent liquidator filed an application

 under Section 66 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code 2016, bearing IA

 No. 2536/ND/2022 alleging two transactions with regard to buying of

 shares of Uno Industries Limited and Jayant Mercantile Company Limited

 by the Suspended Board of Directors labelling them as fraudulent. The Ld.

 Tribunal by passing the impugned order directed the appellants to

 contribute a sum of Rs. 28,50,000/- to the assets of the CD with regard to

 these two transactions which in the opinion of Ld. Tribunal were made with

 the purpose of avoidance of commencement of insolvency resolution

 process in respect of the CD and due diligence has not been exercised by

 the Promoters/Directors/Appellants. 6. Ld. Counsel for the appellant while relying on written submissions

 submitted by him submits that the trial court has committed manifest

 illegality in passing the impugned order and has completely ignored the fact

 that due diligence has been exercised by the appellants and they were

 aware that although the Companies, whose shares were purchased, were

 not actively trading in their shares but there was probability that they

 would soon carry out its procedural compliances and will be actively traded

 on stock exchange and therefore, after carrying out necessary diligence and

 considering the information received, a decision was taken to invest in

 these companies anticipating that the share prices of these companies

 would go up and would reap huge profits and returns for the CD. Company Appeal (AT) (Ins) No.346 of 2024 3 of22 7. It is further submitted that the NCLT failed to consider that the

 commercial decision taken by the appellants with regard to purchase of

 shares of the aforesaid companies was taken in the ordinary course of

 business with bonafide for the benefit of the CD and the same could not be

 doubted, if it has turned out to be non-profitable. 8. It is also submitted that sometimes the decision taken in business

 also results in loss and these decisions only due to the fact that a loss has

 been caused may not be termed as fraudulent or not taken with due

 diligence while in the instant case the decision of purchasing the shares of

 these two companies was taken by exercising due diligence. 9. It is also submitted that there is no connection of the insolvency of the

 CD with these investments and the investment remains the sole asset of the

 CD and has fetched an offer of Rs. 15,00,000/- during liquidation and if the

 circumstances may be normal these shares might have fetched a higher

 price and there are many instances the companies which were earlier de-

 listed from the stock market are relisted again and their shares have

 fetched higher prices. 10. It is also submitted that there is no evidence which may show that the

 transaction of purchasing the shares of these two companies was

 fraudulent or has been carried out with the intent to defraud creditors and

 the onus to prove the fraudulent intent was on the Respondent, while

 except the transaction audit report, which could not be relied on, there is

 no other substantial piece of evidence which may indicate the transactions

 as fraudulent. Company Appeal (AT) (Ins) No.346 of 2024 4 of22 11. It is further submitted that only evidence on which the reliance has

 been placed by the Ld. Tribunal is transaction audit report which is full of

 contradictions and could not be relied as such and conclusions arrived at

 therein are also not conclusive and therefore on the basis of such shaky

 conclusions the conduct of appellants could not be termed as fraudulent. 12. It is reiterated that to take any action under Section 66 (1) of the Code

 the proof of dishonest intention is a pre-condition and Ld. Tribunal has not

 considered this aspect and without, even finding the ingredients of Section

 66 (2) of the Code has directed the appellants to deposit Rs. 28,50,000/-. 13. It is further submitted that there is absolutely no link between the

 transactions in question and the commencement of CIRP against the CD

 and thus Section 66 of the Code may not be invoked. Reliance in support of

 his submissions have been placed on by Ld. Counsel for the appellants on

 Inasara Technologies Pvt. Ltd. vs. Yogendra Vasupal & Ors., 2024

 SCC Online NCLT 1071. Regen Powertech Pvt. Ltd. vs. Wind

 Construction Pvt. Ltd. , 2022 SCC Online NCLAT 3801. 14. Respondent - Shree Vishvamurte TradInvest Pvt. Ltd. (SVTIPL) in his

 reply has denied all the averments made in the memo of appeal and

 grounds taken therein and has further stated that there is no illegality so

 far as the impugned order is concerned. It is further stated that in the 4 th

 meeting of the stakeholder's consultation committee (SCC) of the CD

 convened on 11.12.2023 the SCC with 100% voting power has passed a

 resolution assigning all the rights, title and interest arisen by virtue of the

 impugned order dated 09.05.2023 in favour of the answering Respondent

 Shree Vishvamurte TradInvest Pvt. Ltd. Company Appeal (AT) (Ins) No.346 of 2024 5 of22 15. It is further stated that the recovery/proceeds so collected by the

 answering Respondent would be distributed among the stakeholders in

 accordance with Section 53 of the Code after deduction of actual cost

 incurred. It is also stated that the deed of assignment dated 03.09.2024

 has also been executed between the CD through its liquidator and SVTIPL.

 Thus, all the rights in respect of the proceeds of the CD has already been

 assigned to the answering Respondent. 16. It is further stated that the impugned judgment has been passed

 keeping in view the transaction auditor report which is a comprehensive

 document and could not be doubted and confirms the fraudulent

 transactions committed by the appellants. 17. It is further stated that the findings contained in the transaction audit

 report are based on the basis of books of accounts of the company for the

 period commencing from 01.04.2016 to 25.06.2021 and is based on

 audited financial statement of the CD, bank statements, loan facility

 agreements, invoices for purchase, sale agreement and income tax returns

 and other relevant records. 18. It is also stated that the investments were made purposely by

 purchasing the equity shares of those companies which were not

 performing well and without opening any demat account without complying

 with the relevant rules, regulations, guidelines and instructions issued by

 the RBI and SEBI in the manner and thus due diligence has not been

 exercised to minimize the potential loss with the creditors of the company. 19. It is also submitted that the impugned transactions were made

 without any diligence without checking that the equity shares in

Company Appeal (AT) (Ins) No.346 of 2024 6 of22
 purchasing which the funds of the CD are being invested, are not traded for

 long and were not listed and thus prima facie shows lack of transparency in

 the transaction ignoring the risks involved in purchasing these non-

 traded/unlisted shares and thus deliberately a sunk investment was made. 20. Reliance in support of the contention has been placed on Amardeep

 Singh Bhatia vs. Abhishek Nagori liquidator for asian natural

 resources (India Ltd.), CA (AT) (Ins) No. 671 of 2020, decided on

 28.11.2022 and Mr. Thomas George vs. K. Easwara Pillai Resolution

 Professional M/s. Mathstraman Manufacturers and Traders Private

 Limited decided on 05.12.2022. 21. Respondent -Arvind Mittal in his reply has submitted that the appeal,

 as has been preferred is a gross misuse of the process of law and deserves

 to be dismissed and there is no infirmity in the impugned order as the

 findings of the transaction audit, which has been relied on by the Ld.

 Tribunal, were based on the basis of books of accounts and other relevant

 material of the CD and as per the transaction audit report the investment

 made in quoted equity shares were not made with bona fide as these shares

 were not being traded at that point of time. 22. It is also stated that the equity shares of Uno Industries was last

 traded on 29.02.2016 at Rs. 0.49/- and for Jayant Merchantile Company

 Ltd. at Rs. 2.08/- on 03.02.2015. Thus no due diligence has been exercised

 by the appellants/Suspended Directors of the CD and these transactions

 has been made in utter disregard to the relevant rules, regulations,

 guidelines and instructions issued by the RBI and SEBI. Company Appeal (AT) (Ins) No.346 of 2024 7 of22 23. It is further stated that the nature of the transactions would itself

 reveal that these are fraudulent transactions and no reasonable diligence

 has been exercised by the appellants in entering into these transactions.

 Knowingly well that it would be difficult to sell such shares and thus a

 illiquidity has been created and in this way appellants/ Suspended

 Directors have not exercised due diligence in minimizing the potential loss

 to the creditors of the CD and thus there is no infirmity in the impugned

 order whereby the appellants have been directed to contribute to the state

 of the CD Rs. 28,50,000/- due to wrongful/fraudulent trading. 24. The appellant in his rejoinder has reiterated that every commercial

 decision made in the business may not be termed as fraudulent as there is

 always a risk of 'loss' along with 'profit' and it is always not truthful that

 the companies which are de-listed from the stock market may not be

 relisted again. It is further stated that there are instances where upon being

 relisted on the stock market the companies have yielded high value of

 returns like Champlast Sanmar Ltd. and Max India Ltd. 25. It is further stated that there is no substance in the contention of the

 Respondent that investments made by the CD has created illiquidity and

 also that the transaction made by the appellant's have added to the assets

 of the Corporate Debtor and the investment made by them stands good

 even post CIRP and an offer of Rs. 15,00,000/- has been received by the

 Respondent during the liquidation process for the shares which are been

 termed as purchase fraudulently. 26. It is further stated that the investment in question has attributed

 value to the corporate debtor's asset and cannot be alleged to be causing

Company Appeal (AT) (Ins) No.346 of 2024 8 of22
 loss. In this regard reliance has been made on the independent auditor's

 report of the year ending 31.03.2021 evidencing the investment in question

 as the sole assets of the CD. It is reiterated that the transaction in question

 may never be termed as fraudulent. 27. We have heard Ld. Counsel for the parties and have perused the

 record including the written submissions submitted by the parties. 28. It is evident that during the course of pendency of this appeal an IA

 No. 6783 of 2024 was filed by the Respondent - Shree Vishwamurte Trad

 Invest Pvt. Ltd. (SVTIPL) for its impleadment as one of the Respondent and

 on 27.11.2024 noticing the statement made on behalf of the liquidator that

 the company has already been sold and liquidator be discharged,

 Respondent No. 1 liquidator was deleted from the array of the parties and

 IA No. 6783 of 2024 moved by the Shree Vishvamurte TradInvest Pvt. Ltd.

 was allowed and Shree Vishvamurte Trad Invest Pvt. Ltd. (herein after

 called Vishvamurte) was impleaded as Respondent in the appeal. Thus it is

 in this background Vishvamurte has become a Respondent in this appeal

 and is also filed its reply. 29. Perusal of the impugned Judgment, would reveal that the adjudicating

 authority after noticing the nature of the transaction with regard to the

 purchase of the shares with regard to the companies who were not listed at

 stock exchange and their shares were not been traded at that point of time,

 at one place of its judgment has opined that may be one can think of giving

 the benefit of doubt to Respondents regarding the transactions with a view

 that there could be a thought regarding appreciation of the value of these

 shares in future but considering the fact that the shares were not actively

Company Appeal (AT) (Ins) No.346 of 2024 9 of22
 traded on 02.08.2019 and 06.08.2019 and the petition for admitting CD in

 insolvency was filed on 19.02.2020 the transaction in question is taken as

 fraudulent and consequently directed the appellants to contribute Rs.

 28,50,000/- to the assets of the CD in liquidation. 30. The relevant part of the impugned judgment is being reproduced as

 under: 31. The basis of passing the impugned order appears to be the transaction

 audit report submitted by the transactional auditor relevant except of the

 said report which has been made available along with the appeal is being

 reproduced as under: -No Demat account was involved for such transaction. -These shares directly purchased from Shree Vishvamurte
 Trade Invest Pvt. Ltd. for which no sale/purchase
 agreement furnished to us. Further the part consideration
 amounting to Rs. 15 Lakh was paid inrespect of shares by
 the corporate debtor. -These two shares were only the investment in stock in
 trade held by the company. -No due diligence or valuation of shares (which were not
 actively traded) was done before the investment decision
 was exercised by the suspended management". 32. Section 66 of the Code is also important for our consideration and the

 same is also reproduced as under: Explanation. --For the purposes of this section a director
 or partner of the corporate debtor, as the case may be,
 shall be deemed to have exercised due diligence if such
 diligence was reasonably expected of a person carrying
 out the same functions as are carried out by such director
 or partner, as the case may be, in relation to the corporate
 debtor". 33. Before moving further let us have a glance with regard to the

 ingredients of Section 66 of the IBC as is evident that the requirement of Section 66 is that if during the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process or

 in liquidation process it is found that any business of the CD has been

 carried on with the intent to defraud business of the CD or for any

 fraudulent purpose the adjudicating authority may pass an order that the

 persons who are carrying on the business would make such contributions

 to the assets of the CD as it may deem fit. And sub- section 2 of this section

 also provides that on an application by a resolution professional during the

 Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process (CIRP) the adjudicating authority

 may direct the director or partner of the CD shall be liable to make such

 contribution to the assets of the CD if before the Insolvency

 Commencement date such director or partner knew or ought to have known

 that there was no reasonable prospect of avoiding the insolvency process in

 respect of the CD and such director or partner did not exercise due

 diligence in minimizing the potential loss to the creditors. 35. Thus the necessary ingredients of invoking this section appears to be

that (i) the business of the CD has been carried on with intent to defraud

creditors of the CD or for any fraudulent purpose. (ii) Before the insolvency

Company Appeal (AT) (Ins) No.346 of 2024 13 of22
 commencement date such director or partner knew or ought to have known

that there was no reasonable prospect of avoiding the commencement of

CIRP and (iii)or such director or partner did not exercise due diligence in

minimizing the potential loss to the creditors. 36. At this juncture, let us also see the manner in which the requirement

of Section 66 has been interpreted by this Tribunal. 37. In Regen Powertech Pvt. Ltd. vs M/s Wind Construction Pvt. Ltd.

and Ors., 2022 SCC Online NCLAT 3801, this tribunal has opined as

under: 34.One cannot remain, "oblivious" of the candid fact that,
 if the "directors" of a "company" had acted on a "bona fide
 belief" that the "company" would "recover" from its
 "financial problems"/ "difficulties", then, they will not be
 held liable for the "act"/ "offence" of "fraudulent trading". 35.As a matter of fact, the "aspect" of "fraudulent trading" case, against the person, then, action in "tort" can be
 resorted to, as opined by this "Tribunal". No wonder a
 "creditor", who was defrauded, will have "recourse" to an
 "alternative remedy", under "civil law". 38. This appellate tribunal again in Renuka Devi Rangaswamy vs. Mr.

Madhusudan Khemka and Ors. , 2023 SCC Online NCLAT, 1722 while

considering the ingredients of Section 66 of the Code has held as under: 39. In Shibo Job Cheeran & Ors. vs. Ashok Velamur Seshadari ,

liquidator of M/s Archana Motors Ltd., 2023 SCC Online, NCLAT 804.

Company Appeal (AT) (Ins) No.346 of 2024 15 of22
 This appellate tribunal again considered Section 66 of the Code and has

opined as under: Thus the facts of the instant case are to be appreciated in the background of

the abovementioned substantive law and legal precedents. 40. It appears to be an admitted situation that the appellants who are

suspended director of the CD were involved in the business of financial

intermediation and it was their core business and the sole defence of the
Company Appeal (AT) (Ins) No.346 of 2024 16 of22
 appellants is that the decision to purchase the shares of these two

companies which were admittedly not being traded at that point of time was

a commercial decision, taken for the reason that it was expected that in

future the shares of these companies may be listed and may be transacted

at the stock exchange and thereafter a high value may be fetched by selling

them. 41. As noticed earlier, one of the main ingredient of Section 66 of the Code

is that a transaction may only be termed as a fraudulent transaction if it

has been carried on with a intention to defraud creditors and before the

insolvency commencement date the directors knew that there was no

reasonable prospect of avoiding the CIRP process along with the fact that

the due diligence has not been exercised by directors for minimizing the

losses to the creditors. 42. At this juncture, the financial position of the CD at the relevant point

of time is also required to be seen, when these shares were purchased and a

glimpse of the same may be assessed from the reply filed by the

Respondent- Shree Vishvamurte whereby the minutes of stakeholder's

consultation committee has been placed on record. The minutes of the

meeting allegedly held on 11.12.2023 through video conferencing has been

placed as Annexure R-2 to this reply wherein the position of the claims owed

to unsecured financial creditors have been shown as under: It is the same entity from which the appellants appear to have purchased

the shares and though it is not crystal clear from the record as to whether

the claim of Rs. 15,27,161/- of Vishvamurte is pertaining to the remaining

amount left to be paid with regard to the purchase of the impugned shares,

as only Rs. 15,00,000/- were paid at the time of purchase of these shares or

the same was with regard to any other debt, but one thing is clear that both

impugned transactions were made by the appellants with one of the

creditor, that too by paying only Rs.15 lakhs, out of Rs. 28 lakhs. Therefore,

doing transaction with one of the creditors exclude the possibility of doing

transaction to the detriment of the interest of creditors. 44. Thus, when the total debt owed to unsecured financial creditors was

to the tune of Rs. 41,00,000/- (approximately) it may not be presumed that

in order to deceive the creditors of this small amount the impugned

transactions might have been undertaken. It is also evident that the

appellants have categorically stated that the shares purchased by them were

fetching a value of Rs. 15,00,000/- during CIRP, even when the CD was in

CIRP and this fact has not been denied by the Respondent. To attract Section 66 though the standard of proof would be of preponderance of

probability but the same is subjected to the heavy proof to the applicant, as

each and every commercial transaction which has resulted in 'loss' may not

be labelled as fraudulent. That is why under Section 66 (2) it is provided

Company Appeal (AT) (Ins) No.346 of 2024 19 of22
 that the directors of the CD or partner must know or ought to have known

that there is no reasonable prospect of avoiding the commencement of

corporate insolvency resolution process and simultaneously another

condition is added by putting the word "and" that such director or partner

did not exercise due diligence in minimizing the potential loss to the

creditors. Thus the clause "a" and "b" of Sub- Section 2 of Section 66 are

required to be read together and if a comprehensive reading of these

provisions is done it would emerge that the director or partner of the CD at

the time of making the impugned transactions must know that there is no

reasonable prospect of avoiding the CIRP process and they did not exercise

due diligence in minimizing the potential loss to the creditors of the CD.

Thus non-exercise of due diligence alone may perhaps be not sufficient to

label a transaction as fraudulent in order to attract sub- section 2 of section

66 of the Code. 45. The Ld. Tribunal has given much emphasis on the fact that the CIRP

process application has been moved within 7 months of purchase of these

equity shares. As we have already stated that having regard to the trade

wherein the CD was involved and keeping in view the amount of debt owed

by the CD it may be not presumed, in absence of any direct evidence that

these transactions of purchasing shares of unlisted companies were made

for the purpose of avoiding the CIRP or that these transactions have been

done as the appellants knew that there is no reasonable prospect of avoiding

the CIRP. 46. It is also reflected that only Rs. 15,00,000/- has been paid by the

directors/appellants in making the impugned transaction and thus the

Company Appeal (AT) (Ins) No.346 of 2024 20 of22
 whole amount of shares value has also not been paid. It may be taken that if

the intention of the directors was to defraud the creditors they have shown

payment of the whole amount of the shares i.e. Rs. 28,50,000/- and making

part payment itself shows that they have exercise due diligence and

unrebutted fact stated by the appellant is that these shares were fetching

Rs.15 lakhs, during CIRP. It is also evident that only Rs. 15 lakhs, out of

purchase value of Rs. 28 lakhs, were paid by the appellant to Vishvamurte

(Respondent) for purchase of these shares and thus Rs. 13 lakhs were

further required to be paid to Vishvamurte (newly arrayed Respondent).

Thus, when only Rs. 15 lakhs were paid to the Respondent by appellants for

purchase of the impugned shares and this amount may be recovered by

selling them, in fact no loss could be said to have been caused to the CD, as

these shares are still in the possession of the CD and Keeping in view the

fact that Respondent is seller of these shares, he could not be the

beneficiary of its own wrongful act. Therefore, the main ingredients of Section 66 (2) of IBC, i.e. (i)director of the CD knew or ought to have known

that there is no reasonable prospect of avoiding insolvency proceedings and (ii) that they did not take due diligence to minimize the potential loss to the

creditors is conspicuously lacking in this case. Thus no case is emerging

under Section 66 (2) of the Code against appellants. It is reiterated that

every decision mode in business of taking risk, in order to earn more profit

cannot be labelled as fraudulent or to have been done to deceive creditors. 47. Keeping in view all the facts and circumstances, together and the law

described herein before we are of the view that the Tribunal has not

correctly appreciated the facts of the instant case and only on the basis of

Company Appeal (AT) (Ins) No.346 of 2024 21 of22
 the transactional audit report which may not be termed as a conclusive

piece of evidence, has arrived at an erroneous conclusion that impugned

transactions made by the appellant at the relevant point of time were

fraudulent without adverting to see the impugned transactions in the broad

spectrum of commercial wisdom. 48. Thus, we find merit in the appeal. Resultantly, the appeal is allowed

 and the impugned order passed by the tribunal is hereby set aside. There is

 no order as to costs. Pending IA's if any are also closed. [Justice Mohd. Faiz Alam Khan]
 Member (Judicial)

 [Arun Baroka]
 Member (Technical)

New Delhi. 25.09.2025. sr

Company Appeal (AT) (Ins) No.346 of 2024 22 of22