1. The assessee-appellant has filed this appeal under Section 260-A of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (hereinafter referred to as the Act) against the decision dated 21.12.2000 passed in I.T.A. No. (SS) 25 (Pat)/1998 by the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal, Patna Bench, Patna by which the Tribunal has upheld with modification the order dated 28th January, 1998 passed by the Assessing Officer, (Assistant Commissioner of Income Tax), Patna under Section 158-BC of the Act making assessment for the block period 1987-88 to 1997-98 (up to 27.11.1996). 2. The factual matrix for disposal of the appeal are that the appellant is a dental surgeon and employed under the Government of Bihar. One Dr. O.P. Diwakar was an employee of the Animal Husbandry Department and was a tenant in the house of the appellant situate at Road No. 20 Gardanibagh, Patna. He was involved in the Animal Husbandry Scam involving defalcation and misappropriation of amount of Rs. one thousand crores. A search under Section 132 of the Act was conducted against the said Dr. O.P. Diwakar, the appellant and others. In case of the appellant the search commenced on 27.11.1996 and concluded on 9.1.1997. Warrant of authorisation was issued for the search of the lockers at State Bank of India, Dujra Branch, Patna on 11th December, 1996 and the Central Bank of India, Bettiah on 9th January, 1997. The Punchnama issued for both the dates were in the name of the appellant and his mother-in-law Mr. Lily to bias etc. In case of search in respect of locker No. 14 at Central Bank of India, Bettiah, warrant of authorisation was issued on 11.12.1996 which was executed on 9th January, 1997 as per Panchanama. After the search, on 17.3.1997 the appellant was directed by the Assessing Officer to file return for the block period under Section 158 BC of the Act. A notice under Section 142 of the Act was also issued requiring the appellant to file a statement of all his assets and liabilities, whether included in the accounts or not, and whether standing in his name or in the name of someone else with regard to the dates mentioned in the aforesaid notice. The Assessee filed a reply to the notice under Section 142 of the Act wherein he promised that he is going to file his return, computation of income, capital account and balance sheet etc. in terms of the notice, but he did not file the return. However, during the assessment proceedings he filed certain data regarding his income during the block period. As the appellant did not comply with the requirements as mentioned in the notice under Section 142(1) of the Act, the Assessing Authority adopted best judgment assessment procedure under Section 144 of the Act on the basis of the information available on record and the information furnished by the assessee in his examination under Section 132 of the Act. During course of search the Assessing authority found that the appellant has salary income from the Government. This apart he has professional income from his private dental clinic running at Kurjeo and Danapur, income from House property and income from other sources and accordingly made the assessment under Section 158-BC of the Act for the block period by order dated 28.1.1998. 3. The appellant filed an appeal before the Tribunal and the Tribunal made certain modifications with regard to income and others and partly allowed the appeal and thus upheld the assessment with regard to block period within modifications. 4. Learned counsel appearing for the appellant has raised two points. Firstly that the assessment for block period is barred under Section 158 BE of the Act. In this connection, he submitted that the last of the authorisation regarding search against the appellant was executed on 11.12.1996 and the subsequent execution of authorisation on 9.1.1997 in respect of the bank locker belonging to the appellant's mother-in-law could not extend the limitation on the ground that the appellant's name is also mentioned in the authorisation. In other words, he submitted that the authorisation in case of the appellant was executed on 11.12.1996 and the order of assessment was passed on 28.1.1998 and as such it was beyond one year from the end of the month in which the last of the authorisation for search under Section 132 was executed in the case of the appellant. Subsequent authorisation issued on 11.12.1996 and executed on 9.1.1997 could not be taken into consideration for counting the period of limitation as that was issued in respect of the bank locker belonging to the appellant's mother-in-law. Secondly, he submitted that pre-conditions for issuance of authorisation of search and seizure as provided under Section 132 of the Act were not satisfied and, accordingly, the entire search and seizure is invalid in the eye of law. 5. Learned counsel appearing for the Department on the other hand submitted that. Section 158 BE of the Act provides time limitation for completion of block assessment and according to Sub-section (1)(a) of Section 158 BE of the Act which is applicable in the present case, the order for assessment of block period shall be passed within one year from the end of the month in which last authorisation for search under Section 132 of the Act was executed. In this case, the last authorisation against the appellant and others was issued on 11.12.1996 for the search of the bank locker at Central Bank of India, Bettiah which was executed on 9.1.1997 and the order of assessment has been passed on 28.1.1998 and as such it was within one year from the end of the month in which last authorisation for search was executed. He further submitted that the concerned authority, namely, the Deputy Director of Income Tax on the basis of the materials available and after being satisfied that there were sufficient reasons ordered for authorisation for search and seizure. The appellant did not raise this point before the assessing authority and for the first time raised this point before the Tribunal and the Tribunal has found that there was enough material in possession of the concerned authority for reason to believe that the appellant and others were in possession of the income which has not been disclosed. Sufficiency of the material cannot be gone into specially when there is nothing on record to show that the power of exercise under Section 132 of the Act was ma/a fide. 6. Thus, two questions arise for consideration in this appeal. The first question is as to whether the assessment for the block period was barred under Section 158 BE of the Act. The second question is as to whether the search and seizure was made in violation of the Section 132 of the Act. 7. The last authorisation to search and seizure under Section 132 of the Act in the case of the appellant and others was issued on 11.12.1996 in respect of locker No. 14 at Central Bank of India and a copy of which has been annexed as Annexure-B to the counter affidavit filed on behalf of the department. The said authorisation slip contains the name of the appellant and others. In pursuance of which the search was conducted on 9.1.1997 and the Punchnama shows that the warrant of authorisation was in the name of the appellant and others and that was executed on 9.1.1997. 8. There is no legal bar in issuance of a common authorisation, The fact that the locker was in the name of other family members of the appellant with regard to which authorisation for search was also issued will not make any difference when the authorisation under Section 132 of the Act also contains the name of the appellant. In pursuance of the said authorisation, the search was made on 9.1.1997. According to relevant provision of Section 158 BE of the Act, the order for assessment for block period has to be passed within one year from the end of the month in which the last of the authorisation for search under Section 132 of the Act was executed. As the execution of authorisation in the case of the appellant was made on 9.1.1997, the period of one year is to be counted from the end of the month of January, 1997 and within one year admittedly the assessment has been made on 28.1.1998 which is within one-year from the date of execution of the last authorisation in the case of the appellant and, accordingly, the first submission raised on behalf of the appellant is without any substance. 9. Section 132 of the Act empowers the Director General or Director or the Chief Commissioner or Commissioner or Joint Director or Joint Commissioner as empowered in this behalf by the Board, to issue authorisation for search and seizure after recording reasons if he has reason to believe that one or more of the conditions as provided under Section 132 of the Act exist The order issued is in the form of authorisation to the Subordinate Officers empowering them to enter and search any buildings and premises as mentioned in the order and exercise the duties and functions as provided under Section 132 of the Act. The order for search and seizure is invasion upon the rights, privacy and freedom of the power of the taxpayer and as such the power should be exercised in accordance with taw for the purpose of which provision has been made under Section 132 of the Act. The search and seizure cannot be ordered in a casual manner. The authority has to satisfy on the basis of the material in its possession and record reasons for coming to the conclusion that it has reason to believe that search and seizure is necessary for any of the purposes mentioned under Section 132 of the Act. If there are materials to support the formation of opinion by the concerned authority under Section 132 of the Act, the Court cannot substitute its own opinion for deciding the question as to whether the authorisation should have been issued or not. If the power is exercised without any material or for a collateral purpose or is mala fide then the proceeding initiated on the basis of search and seizure is liable to be quashed. However, if the power is exercised bona fide, then the proceeding cannot be quashed on any error of judgment on the part of the officers. In this connection, reference may be made to the judgment of the Apex Court in the case of Income Tax Officer, Special Investigation Circle "B", Meerut v. Seth Brothers and Ors., ITR (74) page 836 wherein the Apex Court at page 843 while dealing with the scope of- Section 132 of the Act has held as follows; 10. The appellant, as stated above, did not raise this point before the Assessing Officer and for the first time raised this point before the Tribunal. The Tribunal found that the concerned authority had material before it before exercising power under Section 132 of the Act. The Tribunal in paragraph 3.2 observed as follows : 11. Thus, there was material before the authority before taking steps under Section 132 of the Act and the satisfaction arrived at by the concerned authority cannot be assailed on the ground of there being no material or actuated by mala fide or collateral purposes. This point also is not worth acceptance. 12. In the result, there is no merit in this appeal and the same is dismissed.