Criminal Petition No.9983 of 2022

Order: 2. A case has been registered against the petitioner herein and
others for the offences punishable under Sections 306 , 386 , 120B IPC
and Section 67A of the Information Technology Act, 2000. 3. Case of the prosecution, in brief, is that the petitioner herein
and other accused conspired together with foreign conspirators, who
created Loan Apps viz., Buddy Cash, Go Cash, I Rupee, used their
phone numbers and accounts for issuing loans and receiving money.
The accused also created firms in order to do money lending business
and all the accused conspired together, allured innocent public in
India, gave loans to the poor people for higher rate of interest,
extracted money from them even though people cleared the loans.
In the said process, it is alleged that the accused harassed and
caused mental agony to the loanee/deceased namely Lanka
Manikanta by blackmailing him that they would send his morphed
photos to his relatives and defame him in the society and abetted him
to commit suicide. The accused violated Indian laws in doing money
lending business, with a mala fide intention to get wrongful gain. 4. Heard. Perused the record. 5. Petitioner was arrested on 28.10.2022 and since then he is in
judicial custody. The only accusation as against the petitioner herein 2 is that he and other accused conspired together with foreign
conspirators and created Loan Apps. In furtherance of their
conspiracy, the petitioner herein and other accused created firms to
do money lending business by alluring innocent public and gave loans
to the poor people for higher rate of interest. It is represented that
this Court granted regular bail to accused No.17 in Criminal Petition
No.9198 of 2022, dated 29.11.2022, and the petitioner herein stands
on the same footing with that of accused No.17. 6. Learned Assistant Public Prosecutor submitted that as many as
17 witnesses were examined in the present case and major portion of
the investigation has been completed. The petitioner is in jail since
more than 30 days. Considering the facts and circumstances of the
case, this Court is inclined to grant bail to the petitioner. 7. Accordingly, the Criminal Petition is allowed. The petitioner
herein shall be released on bail on his executing a personal bond for a
sum of Rs.10,000/- (Rupees Ten Thousand only) with two sureties for
the like sum each to the satisfaction of the learned IV Additional Chief
Metropolitan Magistrate, Vijayawada. Petitioner shall appear before
the Station House Officer, Patamata Police Station, Vijayawada City
once in a week i.e., on every Sunday between 10.00 AM and 01.00
PM till filing of the charge sheet. The petitioner shall not directly or
indirectly contact or threaten witnesses and shall not tamper the
evidence and shall co-operate with the investigation. _____________________
 K. SREENIVASA REDDY, J
Dated:21.12.2022
Note: