( 2025:HHC:17728 )

IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH, SHIMLA

 Cr. MPM No. 804 of 2025
 Reserved on: 26.05.2025
 Date of Decision: 04.06.2025

Jitender Thakur
 .... Petitioner
 Versus

State of Himachal Pradesh
 ...Respondent

Coram
Hon'ble Mr Justice Rakesh Kainthla, Judge.
Whether approved for reporting? No.

For the Petitioner : Mr. Maan Singh, Advocate. The petitioner has filed the present petition for seeking

regular bail. It has been asserted that the petitioner was arrested

_______________

 Whether reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the judgment? Yes. 2 ( 2025:HHC:17728 )

vide F.I.R. No.233 of 2024, dated 19.10.2024, registered at Police

Station Nurpur, District Kangra, H.P., for the commission of

offences punishable under Sections 20, 25 and 29 of Narcotic

Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (for short ' NDPS' Act) Act . As

per the prosecution, the police party checked the vehicle bearing

registration No..T0424CH6911A and recovered 3.575 Kgs of charas.

The petitioner and co-accused were found present in the vehicle.

The petitioner has been falsely implicated, and he has no

connection with the commission of the crime. The charas was

recovered from the dicky of the vehicle, which does not belong to

the petitioner. The investigation is complete, and no recovery is to

be made from the petitioner. No fruitful purpose will be served by

detaining the petitioner in custody. The petitioner will abide by all

the terms and conditions which the Court may impose. Hence, the

petition. 2. The petition is opposed by filing a status report

asserting that the police were on a patrolling duty on 18.10.2024.

They received a secret information at 12:30 am that a vehicle was

transporting a commercial quantity of charas, and in case of its

search, police could recover charas. The police reduced the

information to writing and sent it to the Supervisory Officer. The 3 ( 2025:HHC:17728 )

police went to 24 miles near Jonta and found that a car bearing

registration No. TO424CH6911A was parked on the road. The

police checked the car in the presence of Mahinder Singh Up

Pradhan. The driver revealed his name as Bhupinder Thakur, and

the person sitting beside the driver revealed his name as Jitender

Thakur (the present petitioner). The police recovered 7 packets

containing black sticks wrapped in transparent polythene. The

police checked the sticks and found them to be charas. The police

weighed the packets and found their weight to be 3.575 kgs. The

police seized the charas and arrested the occupants of the vehicle.

As per the report of analysis, the exhibit was an extract of

cannabis and a sample of charas. Bhupinder Thakur revealed

during the interrogation that Desh Raj had handed over the charas

to him on Katola Batheri road with a direction to deliver it to Sonu.

The police are searching for Sonu. The charge sheet was prepared

and filed before the Court on 09.04.2025; hence, the status report. 3. I have heard Mr. Maan Singh, learned counsel for the

petitioner and Mr. Lokender Kutlehria, learned Additional

Advocate General for the respondent-State. 4 ( 2025:HHC:17728 ) 4. Mr. Maan Singh, learned counsel for the petitioner,

submitted that the petitioner is innocent and was falsely

implicated. There is no evidence that the petitioner was found in

possession of the charas. The police report also shows a mere

possibility of the petitioner being aware of the presence of charas

in the vehicle. There is no definite evidence against the petitioner.

The co-accused has been released on bail in case titled Desh Raj v.

State of Himachal Pradesh (2025:HHC:10004). Hence, he prayed

that the present petition be allowed and the petitioner be released

on bail. 5. Mr. Lokender Kutlehria, learned Additional Advocate

General for the respondent/State, submitted that the petitioner

was found in the vehicle from which a commercial quantity of

charas was recovered. The rigours of Section 37 of the NDPS Act

apply to the present case, and the petitioner has failed to satisfy

the twin conditions laid down in Section 37 of the NDPS Act.

Therefore, he prayed that the present petition be dismissed. 6. I have given considerable thought to the submissions

made at the bar and have gone through the records carefully. 5 ( 2025:HHC:17728 ) 7. The parameters for granting bail were considered by

the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Ajwar v. Waseem (2024) 10 SCC 768: 8. This position was reiterated in Ramratan v. State of

M.P. , 2024 SCC OnLine SC 3068, wherein it was observed as under: 6 (Emphasis supplied) 9. This position was reiterated in Shabeen Ahmed versus

State of U.P. , 2025 SCC Online SC 479. 10. The present petition has to be decided as per the

parameters laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court. 8 ( 2025:HHC:17728 ) 11. Perusal of the status report shows that the police had

recovered 3.575 kgs of charas from the vehicle in which the

petitioner was present. In Madan Lal versus State of H.P. (2003) 7

SCC 465: 2003 SCC (Cri) 1664: 2003 SCC OnLineSC 874, the

contraband was recovered from a vehicle, and it was held that all

the occupants of the vehicle would be in conscious possession of

the contraband. It was observed: session but conscious possession has been established. It
 has not been shown by the accused-appellants that the
 possession was not conscious in the logical background of Sections 35 and 54 of the Act." 12. Therefore, in view of the binding precedent of the

Hon'ble Supreme Court, the petitioner has to be treated to be in

possession of the Heroin. ( 2025:HHC:17728 ) 13. The status report shows that the police had recovered

3.575 kgs of charas from the vehicle, which is a commercial

quantity, therefore, the rigorous of Section 37 of the NDPS Act

apply to the present case. 14. Section 37 of the NDPS Act provides that in an offence

involving commercial quantity, the Court should be satisfied that

the accused is not guilty of the commission of an offence and is

not likely to commit any offence while on bail. Section 37 of the

NDPS Act reads as under: 15. This Section was interpreted by the Hon'ble Supreme

Court in Union of India Versus Niyazuddin & Another (2018) 13 SCC

738 and it was held that in the absence of the satisfaction that the

accused is not guilty of an offence and he is not likely to commit

an offence while on bail, he cannot be released on bail. It was

observed: 8. The accusation in the present case is with regard to the
 fourth factor namely, commercial quantity. Be that as it
 may, once the Public Prosecutor opposes the application for
 bail to a person accused of the enumerated offences under Section 37 of the NDPS Act, in case, the court proposes to
 grant bail to such a person, two conditions are to be
 mandatorily satisfied in addition to the normal
 requirements under the provisions of the Cr.P.C . or any
 other enactment. ( 2025:HHC:17728 )

 (2) that person is not likely to commit any offence while
 on bail." 16. This position was reiterated in State of Kerala Versus

Rajesh, AIR 2020 SC 721, wherein it was held: and (ii) that he is not likely to commit any offence
 while on bail are satisfied. The High Court has
 not given any justifiable reason for not abiding
 by the aforesaid mandate while ordering the
 release of the respondent accused on bail.
 Instead of attempting to take a holistic view of
 the harmful socio-economic consequences
 and health hazards which would accompany
 trafficking illegally in dangerous drugs, the
 court should implement the law in the spirit
 with which Parliament, after due deliberation,
 has amended." 20. The scheme of Section 37 reveals that the exercise of
power to grant bail is not only subject to the limitations
contained under Section 439 of the CrPC but is also subject
to the limitation placed by Section 37 , which commences
with the non-obstante clause. The operative part of the said
section is in the negative form prescribing the enlargement
of bail to any person accused of the commission of an
offence under the Act unless twin conditions are satisfied. 14 ( 2025:HHC:17728 )

 The first condition is that the prosecution must be given an
 opportunity to oppose the application, and the second is
 that the Court must be satisfied that there are reasonable
 grounds for believing that he is not guilty of such an
 offence. If either of these two conditions is not satisfied, the
 ban for granting bail operates. 21. The expression "reasonable grounds" means something
 more than prima facie grounds. It contemplates substantial
 probable causes for believing that the accused is not guilty
 of the alleged offence. The reasonable belief contemplated
 in the provision requires the existence of such facts and
 circumstances as are sufficient in themselves to justify
 satisfaction that the accused is not guilty of the alleged
 offence. In the case on hand, the High Court seems to have
 completely overlooked the underlying object of Section 37 that in addition to the limitations provided under the CrPC ,
 or any other law for the time being in force, regulating the
 grant of bail, its liberal approach in the matter of bail under
 the NDPS Act is indeed uncalled for." 17. A similar view was taken in Union of India v. Mohd.

Nawaz Khan , (2021) 10 SCC 100: (2021) 3 SCC (Cri) 721: 2021 SCC

OnLine SC 1237 wherein it was observed at page 110: that : (a) the person is not guilty of such an offence;
 and (b) he is not likely to commit any offence while
 on bail. 22. The standard prescribed for the grant of bail is
 "reasonable ground to believe" that the person is not guilty
 of the offence. Interpreting the standard of "reasonable 15 ( 2025:HHC:17728 )

grounds to believe", a two-judge Bench of this Court in Shiv
Shanker Kesari [Union of India v. Shiv Shanker Kesari , (2007)
7 SCC 798 : (2007) 3 SCC (Cri) 505], held that : (SCC pp. 801-
02, paras 7-8 & 10-11)
 "7. The expression used in Section 37(1)(b)(ii) is
 "reasonable grounds". The expression means something
 more than prima facie grounds. It connotes substantial
 probable causes for believing that the accused is not
 guilty of the offence charged, and this reasonable belief
 contemplated in turn points to the existence of such facts
 and circumstances as are sufficient in themselves to
 justify the recording of satisfaction that the accused is not
 guilty of the offence charged. 8. The word "reasonable" has in law the prima facie
 meaning of reasonable in regard to those
 circumstances of which the actor, called on to act
 reasonably, knows or ought to know. It is difficult to
 give an exact definition of the word "reasonable".
 '7. ... Stroud's Judicial Dictionary, 4th Edn., p. 2258
 states that it would be unreasonable to expect an
 exact definition of the word "reasonable". Reason
 varies in its conclusions according to the idiosyncrasy
 of the individual, and the times and circumstances in
 which he thinks. The reasoning which built up the old
 scholastic logic sounds now like the jingling of a
 child's toy.'
 [See MCD v. Jagan Nath Ashok Kumar [MCD v. Jagan
 Nath Ashok Kumar, (1987) 4 SCC 497], SCC p. 504, para
 7 and Gujarat Water Supply & Sewerage Board v. Unique
 Erectors (Gujarat) (P) Ltd. [Gujarat Water Supply &
 Sewerage Board v. Unique Erectors (Gujarat) (P) Ltd.,
 (1989) 1 SCC 532] ]
 *** 10. The word "reasonable" signifies "in accordance
 with reason". In the ultimate analysis, it is a question
 of fact whether a particular act is reasonable or not,
 depends on the circumstances in a given situation. 16 ( 2025:HHC:17728 )

 (See Municipal Corpn. of Greater Mumbai v. Kamla
 Mills Ltd. [Municipal Corpn. of Greater
 Mumbai v. Kamla Mills Ltd. (2003) 6 SCC 315] 11. The court, while considering the application for
 bail with reference to Section 37 of the Act, is not
 called upon to record a finding of not guilty. It is for
 the limited purpose, essentially confined to the
 question of releasing the accused on bail, that the
 court is called upon to see if there are reasonable
 grounds for believing that the accused is not guilty
 and records its satisfaction about the existence of
 such grounds. But the court has not to consider the
 matter as if it is pronouncing a judgment of acquittal
 and recording a finding of not guilty." (emphasis supplied) 23. Based on the above precedent, the test which the High
 Court and this Court are required to apply while granting
 bail is whether there are reasonable grounds to believe that
 the accused has not committed an offence and whether he is
 likely to commit any offence while on bail. Given the
 seriousness of offences punishable under the NDPS Act and
 in order to curb the menace of drug trafficking in the
 country, stringent parameters for the grant of bail under
 the NDPS Act have been prescribed. 18. In the present case, there is no material to show that

the petitioner has not committed the offence punishable under Section 20(b)(ii)(c) of the NDPS Act; rather the material on record

clearly shows that the petitioner was found in possession of the

commercial quantity of Charas. Hence, the petitioner is not

entitled to bail in view of the rigours of Section 37 of the NDPS Act. 17 ( 2025:HHC:17728 ) 19. It was submitted that there is no call detail record or

bank account transactions between the petitioner and the co-

accused. Therefore, the petitioner cannot be connected with the

commission of a crime. This submission is not acceptable. The

petitioner was present in the vehicle from which the recovery was

effected, therefore, he was in possession of the commercial

quantity of charas. This was, prima facie, sufficient to connect the

petitioner with the commission of the crime. The call detail

records and the bank account would have been relevant if there

was no other evidence to connect with the commission of the

crime, hence, the absence of call detail records and the bank

account will not assist the petitioner. 20. It was submitted that the co-accused was released on

bail, and the petitioner is entitled to bail on the principle of parity.

This submission is not acceptable. The judgment passed by this

Court in Desh Raj (supra) shows that he was implicated based on

the statement made by the co-accused, which was held to be

inadmissible, and the Court held that there was no evidence to

connect him with the commission of a crime. In the present case,

the petitioner was present in the vehicle from which recovery was 18 ( 2025:HHC:17728 )

effected. Hence, there is sufficient evidence against the petitioner,

and he cannot claim parity with the co-accused. 21. No other point was urged. 22. Consequently, the present petition fails, and the same

is dismissed. 23. The observations made hereinabove are regarding the

disposal of this petition and will have no bearing, whatsoever, on

the case's merits. (Rakesh Kainthla)
 Judge

04th June, 2025
(Shamsh Tabrez)