The present appeal has been filed by the assessee
challenging the impugned order 14.03.2024 passed u/s
250 of the Income Tax Act, 1961 ('the Act'), by the National
Faceless Appeal Centre, Delhi (NFAC) for the assessment
year 2014-15. 2. None appeared on behalf of the assessee when the
case was called, even no application for seeking
adjournment has been filed. From the records, we noticed
that today is the 8 th opportunity and even on previous 2 ITA No. 2469/Mum/2024 Chintan Shailesh Shah, Mumbai

occasions dates were being sought by the assessee, and
ultimately stopped appearing before the court. In our view,
it is the bounded duty of assessee to pursue its appeal but
assessee has failed to do so, which goes to show that
assessee is not interested in pursuing the present appeal. 3. On the other hand Ld. DR present in the court is
ready with the arguments. Therefore we have decided to
proceed with the hearing of the case ex-parte. 4. We have heard Ld. DR and perused the material
placed on record and orders passed by the revenue
authorities. The assessee has challenged the additions
made by the AO u/s 68 and 69C of the Act, and in this
regard, we have meticulously analyzed the orders passed
by the Ld. CIT(A) and found that Ld. CIT(A) has dealt with
both the grounds in detail while passing the orders and
operative portion of the Ld. CIT(A) is contained in para 6 to
7 which are reproduced herein below: He was also granted opportunity of personal hearing through video
 conferencing on 24/01/2024 at 4.07pm onwards through his AR Hitesh
 M Shah, CA. After careful perusal of facts on record and submissions of the
 appellant, the is decided as hereunder. appeal

 6.1 Ground no. 1 & 2: These grounds are general in nature. Vide
 submissions dated 26/12/2023, the appellant has stated that he was 3 ITA No. 2469/Mum/2024 Chintan Shailesh Shah, Mumbai

not pressing these grounds. Considering the same, these grounds are
dismissed as not having been pressed

6.2 Ground no. 3: This ground pertains to the claim that the AO erred in
denying exemption u/s 10(38) of the Act and in adding Rs. 72,96,366/-
u/s 68 of the Act. 6.2.1 During appeal proceedings, the appellant has made the similar
submissions as have been dealt by the AO in his order. His submissions
during the appeal proceedings are summarized below. 3,00,000/- on 28/11/2011 from Santoshima Tradelinks Ltd vide
 debit note dated 28/11/2011. The payment had been made to
 the seller on 15/09/2011 by through bank account vide cheque
 drawn by the appellant. The appellant was allotted share
 certificates in physical form and were dematerialized and
 received in account of the appellant during July 2013 (ii) Conart Traders Ltd was amalgamated with Sunrise Asian ltd,
 a listed company as per order of Hon'ble Bombay High Court and
 appellant received 15000 equity shares of Sunrise Asian Ltd on
 21/06/2013 These shares of Sunrise Asian Ltd were received in
 demat account of the appellant on 27/09/2013 (iii) Appellant sold these 15000 equity shares of Sunrise Asian Ltd
 for Rs. 75.90,730-on Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) through stock
 broker Stochastics Securities Pvt Ltd vis contract notes dated
 03/09/2013, 05/09/2013, 10/09/2013, 16/09/2013,
 19/09/2015 & 20/09/2013 The Securities Transaction Tax (STT)
 was paid on these transactions, sale proceeds were received
 through RTGS/account payee cheques/banking channel (iv) Coples of ledger account with broker, contract notes, bank
 statement, demat account statement were filed before the AO who
 had issued notices u/s 133(6) to the BSE & the broker and did
 not point out any adverse facts (v) The appellant was not provided the opportunity to cross-
 examine Vipul Vidur Bhatt & the appellant denied knowing this
 person. (vi) The SEBI order dated 06/09/2021 does not mention the name
 of the appellant 4 ITA No. 2469/Mum/2024 Chintan Shailesh Shah, Mumbai (vii) The AO failed to establish any cash trail (viii) The appellant also relied upon decisions in cases of Shyam
 Pawar (2015) (54 taxmaan.com 108), Dipesh Ramesh Vardhan Vs
 DCIT Central Circle-2(2) ITA No 7648/Mum/2019 dated
 11.08.2020, Sangeeta Naval Agarwal Vs ITO-25 (1)(1) ITA No.
 1806/Mum/2022, dated 28.11.2022

6.2.2 The issue of the AO not providing the materials and statement
relied upon by him to the appellant and not providing the opportunity of
cross-examination of Vipul Vidur Bhat who was held to have provided
accommodation entries in case of the impugned scrip, is taken up first. It is also important to note that as mentioned by the AO in assessment
order at para 10.2 & 10.3, the appellant was provided copy of
statement of Vipul Vidur Bhat. This fact has been admitted by the
appellant at page 4 in submissions filed on 26/12/2023 during the
appeal proceedings though in an evasive and back-handed manner
saying that it was not made available in proper time. However, the fact remains that the appellant has not been able to
explain the abnormal price rise of shares of Sunrise Asian Ltd within a
short span of time. Notwithstanding such submissions of the appellant, the issue of legal
foundation of providing the assessees each and every document relied
upon by the AD and the issue of cross-examination is dealt in following
paragraphs of this order. It is important to go through the genesis of right to cross-examination.
The issue of examination & cross-examination has roots in Section 138 of Evidence Act 1872. As per the same, the Order of examinations is
witnesses shall be first examined-in-chief, then (if the adverse party so
desires) cross-examined, then (if the party calling him so desires) re-
examined. Section 60 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 prescribes the
provision of recording oral evidence. All those statements which the
court permits or expects the witnesses to make in its' presence
regarding the truth of the facts are called Oral Evidence. Thus,
'witnesses' fall into the category of oral evidence. In fact, Section 3 of
Indian Evidence Act states that all those documents which are
presented in the court for inspection are called documentary evidences.
This section strengthens that it is the documentary evidence that would
show the actual attitude of the parties and their consciousness
regarding the custom & these are more important than any oral
evidence. Thus, the documentary evidences (seized material, bank
account trails etc.) are mostly held as primary evidences. Chintan Shailesh Shah, Mumbai

That right to cross-examination is a not a binding & absolute right
applicable to Income Tax Proceedings has been held in cases of Nath
International Sales Vs. UOI AIR 1992 Del 295, State of J&K Vs. Bakshi
Gulam Mohd. AIR 1967 (SC) 122, Kanungo and Co. v. Collector of
Customs [1983] ELT 1486 (SC), T. Devasahaya Nadar V. CIT ( 1964) 51
ITR 20 (Mad) and Satellite Engg. Ltd. v. Union of India 1983 ELT 2177
(Bom.). In GTC Industries Ltd. V. Asstt. CIT (1998) 60 TTJ (Bom. Trib) 308, it
was held that under the dictum of 'Audi Alteram Partem', the right to
cross-examine the witness who made adverse report is not an
invariable attribute of the requirement of the said dictum. The principles
of natural justice do not require formal cross- examination. It was held
that formal cross-examination is a part of procedural justice. It is
governed by the rules of evidence, and is the creation of Court and that
it is part of legal and statutory justice, and not a part of natural justice,
therefore, it cannot be laid down as a general proposition of law that the
revenue could not rely on any evidence which had not been subjected to
cross-examination. It was held that if a witness has given directly
incriminating statement and the addition in the assessment is based
solely or mainly on such statement, in that eventuality it is incumbent
on the Assessing Officer to allow cross- examination and adverse
evidence and material, relied upon in the order, to reach the finality,
should be disclosed to the assessee. It was also held that this rule is
not applicable where the material or evidence used is of collateral
nature. Also, in case of Amrapali Fincap Ltd [2016] 73 taxmann.com 37
(Gujarat), the assessee had requested the Settlement Commission for
cross-examination of one Sirish C Shah (S), accommodation entry
provider, whose statements had been relied upon by the Department.
Hon'ble Settlement Commission had rejected application of assessee
who filed a writ against order of Settlement commission raising denial
of cross-examination as one of the contentions. Hon'ble Jurisdictiorial
High Court held that since Settlement Commission, besides relying upon
statements of 'S' and other witnesses, had also taken into consideration
other facts available on record, there was no scope for interference in
order of Settlement Commission. This decision again establishes that when statements are relied upon
by the Department as secondary evidence in collaboration with other
evidences eg. correlation with books, bank accounts, seized material
etc., then the denial of right to cross-examination cannot be taken as
plea to not make the addition. In the case of present appellant also, the AO did not rely merely upon
the statements of third parties but he analyzed the financial
performance of the impugned scrip, its share price movement, mode of 6 ITA No. 2469/Mum/2024 Chintan Shailesh Shah, Mumbai

acquisition of shares by the appellant, made third part inquiries from
counter-parties of sale-trades of the appellant and also had recorded
the statement of the appellant himself. It is also seen that in a case, similar to that of appellant, of availing
accommodation entry of capital gains in case of Swati Bajaj [2022] 139
taxmann.com 352 (Calcutta), Hon'ble Calcutta High Court has held
below

 "The first argument on behalf of the assessee is that the copy of
 the investigation report was not furnished to them despite specific
 written request made on behalf of the assesses to furnish the
 copy of the report, the statements recorded and provide those
 persons from whom statements were recorded to be cross
 examined on behalf of the assessee. There is no dispute to the
 fact that the copy of the statement said to have been recorded
 during the course of investigation has not been furnished to the
 assessees and the request made by some of them for cross
 examining of those persons was not considered. The question
 would be as to whether the non-compliance of the above would
 render the assessments bad in law. The argument of the revenue
 is that the assessments cannot be held to be illegal merely on the
 grounds that the copy of the report was not furnished as the
 respective assessing officers have clearly mentioned as to the
 nature of investigation done by the department and as the report
 itself states that the investigation commenced not from the
 assessees end but the individuals who dealt with these penny
 stocks who were targeted. It is equally true invariably in all
 cases, the statement of the stock brokers, the entry operators or
 the Directors of the various penny stock companies does not
 directly implicate the assessee. If such being the situation, the
 assessee cannot be heard to say that the copy of the entire report
 should have been furnished to him, the person from whom the
 statements were recorded should have been produced for cross
 examination as admittedly there is nothing to implicate the
 assessee Smt. Swati Bajaj of insider trading or rigging of share
 prices. But the allegation against the assessee is that the claim
 for LTCG/LTCL is bogus. As pointed out by Mr. Rai, learned
 senior standing counsel, the investigation report is general in
 nature not assessee specific. Therefore, we are required to see as
 to whether non-furnishing of the report which according to the
 revenue is available in the public domain would vitiate the
 proceedings on the ground that the assessee was put to
 prejudice. ................................. ................................. Chintan Shailesh Shah, Mumbai

the assessees have to specifically point out as to how they were
prejudiced on account of non-furnishing of the investigation report
in its entirety, failure to produce the persons from whom the
statements were recorded for being cross examined would cause
prejudice to the assessee as nowhere in the report the names of
the assessees feature. The investigation report states that the
investigation has not commenced from the individuals but it has
commenced who had dealt with the penny stocks, concept of
working backwards. This is a very significant factor to be
remembered. Therefore, there has been absolute anonymity of the
assessee in the process of investigation. The endeavour of the
department is to examine the "modus operandi" adopted and in
that process now seek to identify the assessees who have
benefited on account of such "modus operandi". Therefore,
considering the factual scenario no prejudice has been
established to the assessee by not furnishing the investigation
report in its entirety nor making the persons available for cross
examination as admitted by the department in substantial
number of cases the assessees have not been specifically indicted
by those persons from whom statements have been recorded. 59.
We are conscious of the fact that there may be exceptions
however nothing has been brought before us to show that there
was an exception in any of these appeals heard by us. In a few
cases the assessee has been made known of the statement of the
Director of the penny stock company or the stock broker, entry
operator despite which those assessees could not make any
headway. While on this issue, we need to consider as to whether
and under what circumstances the right of cross examination can
be demanded as a vested right. In KishanlalAgarwalla (supra),
the Hon'ble Division Bench of this Court pointed out that no
natural justice requires that there should be a kind of formal cross
examination as it is a procedural justice, governed by the rules
and regulations. Further it was held that so long as the party
charged has a fair and reasonable opportunity would receive,
comment and criticize the evidence, statements or records on
which the charges is being against him, the demand and tests of
natural justice are satisfied. ................................. ................................. In Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad (supra) the Hon'ble Supreme Court
held that the right of hearing cannot include the right of cross
examination and the right must depend upon the circumstances of
each case and must also depend on the statute under which the
allegations are being enquired into. 61. Having noted the above
legal position, it goes without saying there is no vested right for
the assessee to cross examine the persons who have not deposed 8 ITA No. 2469/Mum/2024 Chintan Shailesh Shah, Mumbai

anything against the assessee. The investigation report proceeds
on a different perspective commencing from a different point and
this has led to the enquiry being conducted by the assessing
officer calling upon the assessee to prove the genuineness of the
claim of LTCG. ................................. ................................. the report submitted by the investigation department cannot be
thrown out on the grounds urged on behalf of the assessees. The
assesses have not been shown to be prejudiced on account of
non- furnishing of the investigation report or non-production of the
persons for cross examination as the assessee has not
specifically indicated as to how he was prejudiced, coupled with
the fact as admitted by the revenue, the statements do not indict
the assessee. That apart, we have noted that the investigation
has commenced targeting the individuals who dealt with the
penny stocks and after examining the modus seeing the cash trail
the report has been submitted recommending the same to be
placed before the DGIT (investigation) of all the states of the
country. It is thereafter the concerned assessing officers have
been informed to consider as to the bonafideness and
genuineness of the claims of LTCG/LTCL of the respective
assessees qua the findings which emanated during the
investigation conducted on the individuals who dealt with the
penny stocks. Therefore, the assessments have commenced by
the assessing officers calling upon the assessee to explain the
genuineness of the claim of LTCG/LTCL made by them. in all the
assessment orders, substantial portion of the investigation report
has been noted in full. A careful reading of the some would show
that the assessee has not been named in the report. If such be the
case, unless and until the assessee shows and proves that
she/he was prejudiced on account of such report/statement mere
mentioning that non-furnishing of the report or non-availability of
the person for cross examination cannot vitiate the proceedings.
The assessees have miserably failed to prove the test of prejudice
or that the test of fair hearing has not been satisfied in their
individual cases. In all the cases, the assessees have been issued
notices under sections 143(2) and 142(1) of the Act they have
been directed to furnish the documents, the assessee have
complied with the directions, appeared before the assessing
officer and in many cases represented by Advocates/Chartered
Accountants, elaborate legal submissions have been made both
oral and in writing and thereafter the assessments have been
completed. Nothing prevented the assessee from mentioning that
unless and until the report is furnished and the statements are
provided, they would not in a position to take part in the inquiry 9 ITA No. 2469/Mum/2024 Chintan Shailesh Shah, Mumbai

which is being conducted by the assessing officer in scrutiny
assessment under section 143(3) of the Act. The assessee were
conscious of the fact that they have not been named in the report,
therefore made a vague and bold statement that the non-
furnishing of report would vitiate the proceedings. Therefore,
merely by mentioning that statements have not been furnished
can in no manner advance the case of the assessee. If the report
was available in the public domain as has been downloaded and
produced before us by the learned standing counsel for the
revenue, nothing prevented the assesses who are ably defended
by Chartered Accountants and Advocates to download such
reports and examine the same and thereafter put up their
defence. Therefore, the based on such general statements of
violation of principles of natural justice the assessees have not
made out any case. ................................. ................................. It is equally not in dispute that whatever information which was
required to be made known to the assessee has been informed to
the assessee by the assessing officer by issuance of a notice to
each of the assesses to which they have responded by submitting
their replies. Therefore, in the absence of any prejudice caused to
the assessee on account of non-furnishing of the entire report, the
assessees cannot be a heard to say that there has been violation
of principles of natural justice and their right to defend
themselves was in any manner affected. At this juncture, it would
be of much relevance to refer to the decision in K. R. Ajmera
(supra). The question of law which arose for consideration before
the Hon'ble Supreme Court was as to what is the degree of proof
required to hold brokers/sub-brokers liable for
fraudulent/manipulative practices under the SEBI Regulations
and for violating the code of conduct of the SEBI (Stocks brokers
and Sub-brokers) Regulations. It was pointed out that the code of
conduct for stock brokers lays down that they shall maintain high
standard of integrity, promptitude and fairness in the conduct of
all investment business and shall act with due skill and care and
diligence in the conduct of all investment business. The Code also
enumerates different shades of duties of stock brokers towards
the investor and those duties pertain to high standard of integrity
that the stock broker is required to maintain in the conduct of his
business. It was further pointed out that it is a fundamental
principle of law that prove of an allegation levelled against a
person may be in the form of direct substantive evidence or as in
many cases such proof may have to be inferred by a logical
process of reasoning from the totality of the attending facts and
circumstances surrounding the allegations/charges made and 10 ITA No. 2469/Mum/2024 Chintan Shailesh Shah, Mumbai

levelled. It was further held that direct evidence is a more certain
basis to come to a conclusion yet in the absence thereof the courts
cannot be helpless. It was further pointed out that it is the judicial
duty to take note of the immediate and proximate facts and
circumstances surrounding the events on which the
charges/allegations are founded and to reach what would appear
to the Court to be a reasonable conclusion therefrom. The test
would always be that what inferential process that a
reasonable/prudent man would adopt to arrive at a conclusion.
The above tests laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court were
applied to the facts of the case in K.R. Ajmera (supra) and it was
noted that the scrips in which trading had been done wherefore
illiquid scrips meaning thereby that such scrips though listed in
the BSE were not a matter of every day buy and sell transactions.
Further it was held that trading in such illiquid scrips is not
impermissible yet voluminous trading over a period of time in
such scrips is a fact that should attract the attention of a vigilant
trader engaged in such trades. It was further pointed out that
though proximity of time between the buy and sell orders may not
be conclusive in an isolated case such an event in a situation
where there is a huge volume and trading can reasonable point to
some kind of a fraudulent/manipulative exercise with prior
meeting of minds. Such meeting of minds so as to attract the
liability of the brokers/sub-broker and may be between the
brokers/sub-broker and the client or it could be between two
brokers/sub-brokers engaged in the buy and sell transactions.
Further it was pointed out that when over a period of time such
transactions have been made between the same set of brokers or
a group of brokers a conclusion can be a reasonable reached that
there is a concerted effort on the part of the brokers concerned to
indulge in synchronized trade the consequences of which is large
volumes of fictitious trading resulting in unnatural rise in hiking
the price/value of the scrips. In the said case, it was argued that
on a screen-based trading the identity of the second party to be a
client or the broker is not known to the first party/client or broker.
This argument was rejected as being irrelevant. It was pointed
out that the screen-based identity system keeps the identity of
the parties anonymous and it will be too naïve to rests the final
conclusions on said basis which overlooks a meeting of minds
elsewhere. Further it was held that direct proof of such meeting of
mind elsewhere would rarely be forth coming and therefore the
test is one of the preponderance of probabilities so far as the
adjudication of a civil liability arising out of violation of the Act or
to the Regulations. Further it was held that the conclusion has to
be gathered from various circumstances like that volume of trade
effected; the period of persistence in trading in particular scrips; Chintan Shailesh Shah, Mumbai

the particulars of the buy and sell orders, namely, the volume
thereof, the proximity of time between the two and such other
relevant factors. Thus, the legal principle which can be culled out from the above
decision is that to prove the allegations, against the assessee, can
be inferred by a logical process of reasoning from the totality of
the attending facts and circumstances surrounding the
allegations/charges made and levelled and when direct evidence
is not available, it is the duty of the Court to take note of the
immediate and proximate facts and circumstances surrounding
the events on which the charges/allegations are founded so as to
reach a reasonable conclusion and the test would be what
inferential process that a reasonable/prudent man would apply
to arrive at a conclusion. Further proximity and time and prior
meeting of minds is also a very important factor especially when
the income tax department has been able to point out that there
has been a unnatural rise in the price of the scrips of very little
known companies. Furthermore, in all the cases, there were
minimum of two brokers who have been involved in the
transaction It would be very difficult to gather direct proof of the
meeting of minds of those brokers or sub-brokers or middlemen or
entry operators and therefore, the test to be applied is the test of
preponderance of probabilities to ascertain as to whether there
has been violation of the provisions of the Income-tax Act . In such
a circumstance, the conclusion has to be gathered from various
circumstances like the volume from trade, period of persistence in
trading in the particular scrips, particulars of buy and sell orders
and the volume thereof and proximity of time between the two
which are relevant factors. Therefore, in our considered view the
methodology adopted by the department cannot be faulted.
................................. ................................. It is very rare and difficult to get direct information or evidence
with regard to the prior meeting of minds of the persons involved
in the manipulative activities of price rigging and insider trading.
We can draw a parallel in cases of adulteration of food stuff,
more than often action is initiated under the relevant Act after the
adulteration takes place, the users of adulterated products get
affected etc. Therefore, a holistic approach is required to be made
and the test of preponderance of probabilities have to be applied
and while doing so, we cannot loose sight of the fact that the
shares of very little known companies with in-significant business
had a steep rise in the share prices within the period of little over
a year. The Income-tax department was not privy to such peculiar 12 ITA No. 2469/Mum/2024 Chintan Shailesh Shah, Mumbai

trading activities as they appear to have been done through the
various stock exchanges and it is only when the assessees made
claim for a LTCG/STCL, the investigation commenced. As pointed
out the investigation did not commence from the assessee but had
commenced from the companies and the persons who were
involved in the trading of the shares of these companies which
are all classified as penny stocks companies. Therefore, the
argument of the assessee that the copy of the investigation report
has not been furnished, the persons from whom statements have
been recorded have not been produced for cross examination are
all contention which has to necessarily fail for several reasons
which we have set out in the proceedings paragraphs. To
reiterate, the assessee was not named in the report and when the
assessee makes the claim for exemption the onus of proof is on
the assessee to prove the genuinity. Unfortunately, the assessees
have been harping upon the transactions done by them and by
relying upon the documents in their hands to contend that the
transactions done were genuine. Unfortunately, the test of
genuinity needs to be established otherwise, the assessees are
lawfully bound to prove the huge LTCG claims to be genuine. In
other words, if there is information and data available of
unreasonable rise in the price of the shares of these penny stock
companies over a short period of time of little more than one year,
the genuinity of such steep rise in the prices of shares needs to be
established and the onus is on the assessee to do so as
mandated in Section 68 of the Act. Thus, the assessees cannot be
permitted to contend that the assessments were based on
surmises and conjectures or presumptions or assumptions. The
assessee does not and cannot dispute the fact that the shares of
the companies which they have dealt with were insignificant in
value prior to their trading. If such is the situation, it is the
assessee who has to establish that the price rise was genuine
and consequently they are entitled to claim LTCG on their
transaction. Until and unless the initial burden cast upon the
assessee is discharged, the onus does not shift to the revenue to
prove otherwise. It is incorrect to argue that the assessees have
been called upon to prove the negative in fact, it is the assessees
duty to establish that the rise of the price of shares within a short
period of time was a genuine move that those penny stocks
companies had credit worthiness and coupled with genuinity and
identity. The assesses cannot be heard to say that their claim has
to be examined only based upon the documents produced by
them namely bank details, the purchase/sell documents, the
details of the D-Mat Account etc. The assesses have lost sight of
an important fact that when a claim is made for LTCG or STCL,
the onus is on the assessee to prove that credit worthiness of the 13 ITA No. 2469/Mum/2024 Chintan Shailesh Shah, Mumbai

 companies whose shares the assessee has dealt with, the
 genuineness of the price rise which is undoubtedly alarming that
 to within a short span of time. ................................. ................................. It was argued that unless there are foundational facts,
 circumstantial evidence cannot be relied on. This argument does
 not merit acceptance as wealth of information and facts were on
 record which is the outcome of the investigation on the companies,
 stock brokers, entry operators etc. Based on those foundational
 facts the department has adopted the concept of "working
 backward" leading to the assessees. While at that relevant stage
 the sounding circumstances, the normal human conduct of a
 prudent investor, the probabilities that may spill over, were all
 taken into consideration to negative the claim for exception made
 by the assessee. Therefore, the department was fully justified in
 taking note of the prevailing circumstances to decide against the
 assessees." The above decision has been subsequently followed by Hon'ble High
Court in Nand Kishore Agarwala [2022] 143 taxmann.com 402
(Calcutta) and also by Hon'ble ITAT in Hemil Subhashbhai Shah ITA
No.1121/Ahd/2018 ITA No.961/Ahd/2019 dated 12/06/2023
regarding the furnishing of report of investigation wing to the assessees
and the issue of cross-examination of persons whose statements were
relied upon by the Department in such reports. In addition to the above discussion regarding legal position on this
issue, in the case of the present appellant, the AO did not rely merely
upon the statements of the accommodation entry providers but he went
ahead and conducted independent inquiries about the counter-parties of
trade of the appellant in the impugned scrip, he brought out their
credentials and non-filer/non-responsive status. The AO also analyzed
the share price data & financial health of the penny stock
purchases/sold by the appellant. Thus, the order of the AO was not
based solely upon the statement of third parties. Considering the above, the contentions of the appellant regarding the
AO violating principles of natural justice & right to cross-examination
are not acceptable & hereby rejected. 6.2.3 The next contentions of the appellant are that he had carried out
the transactions through banking channels, through demat account,
from BSE platform via registered stock broker, that share markets are 14 ITA No. 2469/Mum/2024 Chintan Shailesh Shah, Mumbai

monitored and regulated by the SEBI and that there has been no
establishment of a cash trail in his case. In so far as no scope of manipulation in prices of listed securities on
BSE/NSE/stock exchanges is concerned, there have been numerous
cases which have been confirmed by even Hon'ble Supreme Court
wherein the technological mechanisms have been used for rigging of
prices of securities by the market manipulators. Some such examples
are Securities and Exchange Board of India v. Rakhi Trading Pvt Ltd
(Civil Appeal no. 1969/2011 decision dated 08/02/2018) and
Securities and Exchange Board of India v. Kishore R. Ajmera (Civil
Appeal no. 2818/2008 decision dated 23/02/2016) which bring out as
to how a group of persons acting in unison can rig the prices of shares
and securities even on the seemingly foolproof technical platforms of
stock exchanges using banking channels and demat accounts. Regarding the claim that entire sales were through stock exchanges, via
banking channels and demat account, and even purchase was made
from banking channels, the documents submitted by appellant during
the assessment and appeal proceedings have been perused to test the
veracity of his claim regarding genuineness of transactions. The purchase was not made online but it was an off-market transaction.
The shares purchased by the appellant were of a closely held company,
Conart Traders Ltd and the appellant purchased these 15000 shares
from Santoshima Tradelinks Ltd who was stated as the holder of these
shares. The payment was made vide cheque. debited from appellant's
bank account on 15/09/2011. The appellant furnished copy of debit
note dated 28/11/2011 of the broker, share transfer form dated
27/11/2011, share certificate dated 25/11/2011 in the name of
Santoshima Tradelinks Ltd & memorandum of transfer of shares to the
appellant dated 27/11/2011. The following discrepancies are noted in
this purchase transaction: He did not know about key personnel of this company, its location
 or its activities, he could not give any reason (apart from word of
 mouth') as to why and on whose recommendation, he had
 purchased shares of an unlisted company about whom he knew
 nothing. The appellant has not come clean as to who was the
 person who advised him about purchase of an unknown, unlisted
 company. He could not even tell the name of the person of Santoshima
 Tradelink whom he had contacted to purchase the impugned
 shares. Since the purchase transaction was off-market and of an
 unknown, closely-held unlisted company, the appellant is
 expected to know the names of the persons who advised him to
 purchase shares of this entity and from whom he purchased such
 shares. The next event was amalgamation of Conart Traders, Santoshima
Tradelink with Sunrise Asian Ltd by Order of Hon'ble Bombay High
Court dated 22/03/2013. The appellant stated before the AO that he
was not aware about any such proceedings. he had not received any
notices/letters from Conart Traders regarding any meeting of
shareholders in reference to the amalgamation proceedings even though
vide Hon'ble High court's order dated 08/10/2012 in Company
Summons for Directions (L) 709/2012, the company was bound to issue
notice to shareholders. The appellant being unaware about this event and the entity not
sending any notice to the share-holder appellant again shows that the
fact of appellant being a shareholder even in the year 2012 was not
established. The next event was allotment of shares of Sunrise Asian Ltd to the
appellant. The appellant furnished a copy of such allotment letter dated
21/06/2013 wherein 15000 shares of Conart Traders Ltd having folio
no. 0000655, distinctive no. 5438271 to 5453270 have been transferred
in the name of the appellant. The shares of Conart Traders were stated
to be held by the appellant in physical form & new shares of Sunrise
were also not received by him in demat account. Chintan Shailesh Shah, Mumbai

It is worth noting that the appellant sold the shares through his own
brokerage company, Stochastics Securities Ltd, in which he was a
director along with his father and brother. The AO has also brought forward additional fact of Vipul Vidur Bhat,
accommodation entry provider, wherein he admitted in statement u/s
132(4) of the Act that he had manipulated transactions of amalgamation
of Conart, Sunrise and Santoshima and then rigged share prices of
Sunrise Asian to arrange for entries for beneficiaries though accounts of
entities controlled trolled by him. 6.2.4 In its order no. WTM/GM/IVD/ID7/13328/2021-22 dated
06/09/2021, SEBI has indicted Vipul Vidur Bhatt and his entities for
manipulation of share prices of Sunrise Asian for the period from
October 16, 2012 to September 30, 2015. Following paras of SEBI order
is worthy of mentioning here: Thus, SEBI has brought out that counter-parties of all those 1331 (who
were allottees of shares of Sunrise pursuant to amalgamation and who 17 ITA No. 2469/Mum/2024 Chintan Shailesh Shah, Mumbai

had ever traded in shares of Sunrise between October 16, 2012 to
September 30, 2015) were entities who had been held responsible for
manipulation of share prices to achieve abnormal high in such prices
during this period. This order has been further concurred & upheld in
adjudication order no./SM/S/2022-23/17112-17196 dated June 17,
2022 of SEBI wherein penalty of Rs. 1 crore has been imposed on the
entities involved in manipulation. This brings out that the counter-parties of sale of appellant's sale trades
were also indicted for manipulating the share prices. 6.2.5 Considering the same facts, in the case of Manju Ajay Pathak, ITA
No. 155/Mum/2023 order dated 18/07/2023, Hon'ble Tribunal has
held that since counter-parties of trade of the assessee had been found
involved in manipulation of share prices of Sunrise Asian, even though
assessee had purchased shares of penny stock from online stock
exchange platform via banking channels and assessee was not directly
names in investigations of the SEBI, the same does not absolve her from
proving the genuineness of the transaction in shares of Sunrise Asian
Ltd. under section 68 of the Act. The following was also held by Hon'ble
ITAT: Similarly, on the basis of counter-party, Comfort Securities, being
indicted by SEBI, in case of Rajendra M Jain ITA No. 733 to
775/Mum/2022 dated 31/01/2023, Hon'ble ITAT, Mumbai has upheld
the additions u/s 68 of the Act made by the AO on account of
transactions in scrip of Sunrise Asian. Chintan Shailesh Shah, Mumbai

Subsequently also, in case of Aakruti Ketan Mehta ITA No.
53/Mum/2023 Dated 31/01/2024, assessee had purchased shares
offline of Santoshima Trade links Ltd on 27/11/2011 @Rs.20/- per
share and same were paid through account payee cheques of Rs.
11,00,000/- on 07/09/2011. Share certificates regarding transfer of
shares in the name of the assessee was issued by the said company
which was later on de-materialized in the name of the assessee after
couple of months. The assessee was allotted shares of Sunrise Asian on
amalgamation and these shares were sold by the assessee on BSE
platform through recognized stock broker via banking channels. Hon'ble
Tribunal held as below: 6.2.8 The appellant and other parties of such penny stock also put up
another defence that their names were not found in the inquiries
conducted by the Department in cases of penny stocks but as has been
held by Hon'ble Supreme Court in case of Kishore R Ajmera (supra)
which was referred to by Hon'ble Calcutta High Court in case of Swati
Bajaj & Others (2022) 139 taxmann.com 352(Cal.) as referred in
previous paras of this order, screen-based identity system keeps the
identity of the parties anonymous in share market transactions and it
will be too naïve to rest the final conclusions on said basis which
overlooks a meeting of minds elsewhere. Further it was held that direct
proof of such meeting of mind elsewhere would rarely be forth coming
and therefore the test is one of the preponderance of probabilities so far 22 ITA No. 2469/Mum/2024 Chintan Shailesh Shah, Mumbai

as the adjudication of a civil liability arising out of violation of the Act or
to the Regulations was concerned. Even otherwise, SEBI has held that all trades in scrip of Sunrise Asian
between October 16, 2012 to September 30, 2015 were manipulated by
the entities controlled by accommodation entry providers including Vipul
Vidur Bhatt & hence, such plea of the assessees has been rejected by
Hon'ble Tribunal in the cases of beneficiaries of this scrip as discussed
in earlier paras of this order. It has also been held in case of Swati Bajaj & others (supra) that the
assessee was not named in the report but when the assessee makes
the claim for exemption the onus of proof is on the assessee to prove the
genuinity and the assessees cannot be permitted to contend that the
assessments were based on surmises and conjectures or presumptions
or assumptions. It was also held that the assessee does not and cannot
dispute the fact that the shares of the companies which they have dealt
with were insignificant in value prior to their trading. If such is the
situation, it is the assessee who has to establish that the price rise was
genuine and consequently they are entitled to claim LTCG on their
transaction. Until and unless the initial burden cast upon the assessee
is discharged, the onus does not shift to the revenue to prove otherwise.
It is incorrect to argue that the assessees have been called upon to
prove the negative in fact, it is the assessees duty to establish that the
rise of the price of shares within a short period of time was a genuine
move that those penny stocks companies had credit worthiness and
coupled with genuinity and identity. The assesses cannot be heard to
say that their claim has to be examined only based upon the documents
produced by them namely bank details, the purchase/sell documents,
the details of the D-Mat Account etc. The assesses have lost sight of an
important fact that when a claim is made for LTCG or STCL, the onus is
on the assessee to prove that credit worthiness of the companies whose
shares the assessee has dealt with, the genuineness of the price rise
which is undoubtedly alarming that to within a short span of time. 6.2.9 Reliance is also placed on following decisions of Hon'ble Apex
Court and lower courts on the issue of penny stock transactions: 10/- per share. The shares were received in demat account on
05/07/2013 of the assessee and were sold between July to September
2013 earning a gain of about Rs.75, 19,505/- which was claimed by 23 ITA No. 2469/Mum/2024 Chintan Shailesh Shah, Mumbai

the assessee as exempt LTCG u/s 10(38) of the I.T. Act. AO found that
this was a penny stock which had been also mentioned in investigation
report of the Department, the share prices had jumped up without any
rationale within a period of few months. The assessee had sought to
justify the claim and genuineness of transactions stating that the
transactions were through banking channels, demat accounts, STT had
been paid, the purchase was not questioned in earlier year by the AO
and sale was through stock exchange. Hon'ble ITAT & High Court had upheld the denial of exemption u/s
10(38) & upheld action of the AO in treating the transaction as bogus.
Hon'ble High Court had dealt with the issue of cross-examination also in
this case and held as below: However, in our opinion, not providing opportunity of cross-
 examination may be in the nature of irregularity which is curable
 but not an illegality leading to annulling of the assessment.
 Further, the Id. CIT(A) in Para 4.1 of the impugned order has held
 that addition has not been made solely on the basis of the
 statement of those persons/parties. The relevant part of the order
 of Ld. CIT(A) is reproduced as under. '4.1 I have considered the submission of the appellant and
 observation of the AO made in the assessment order on the issue.
 The appellant has stated that it has not been allowed cross-
 examination of parties on the basis of whose statement, the
 addition has been made. On this issue it is observed from the
 assessment record that the AO has made the addition on the
 strength of independent analysis of the documents to arrive at the
 conclusion that the appellant has failed to prove genuineness of
 the transaction in respect of STCL as discussed above.
 Statements and other material found in the course of investigation
 has been used by him as a corroborative material to strengthen
 his findings. As per the requirement of section 68 of the Act, the
 AO has shifted the onus back on the appellant by confronting the
 adverse findings Therefore, the appellant has failed to discharge
 the onus cast upon it u/s 68 of the Act to explain the transaction
 The Investigation Wing has conducted detailed enquiries, made
 analysis of the seized/impounded documents and made analysis 24 ITA No. 2469/Mum/2024 Chintan Shailesh Shah, Mumbai

 of beneficiaries. The report prepared contains details of complete
 modus operandi, commission charged against accommodation
 entries, list of conduit companies,

 list of their bank accounts in the name of conduits. The said list
 contains names of companies in which the appellant dealt.
 Therefore, the findings in the case of Investigation wing
 corroborate the independent findings of the AO. Therefore, the AO
 was not required to allow the appellant the opportunity to cross-
 examine." SLP filed against above decision of Suman Poddar (supra) was
dismissed by Hon'ble Supreme Court. It is noted here that facts of case
of present appellant are similar to this case. The appellant had
purchased shares in off-market transactions via banking channel which
were dematerialized subsequently and were sold through a broker on
stock exchange platform earning irrational and unexplained gains to
her. (ii) Nand Kishore Agarwala [2022] 143 taxmann.com 402 (Calcutta): Hon'ble High Court had upheld Hon'ble ITAT Delhi's decision which had
dismissed appeal of the assessee relying upon facts of the unexplained
& unrealistic rise in prices of these scrips in a short span of time, their
weak financial position, report of stock exchange hallmarks the
investigation wing and had held that banking transactions, demat
account and use of transaction. platform cannot be taken of a genuine

The case of present appellant is also similar to this case as he has also
sought to defend his claim using the smokescreen of banking channel,
demat account and stock exchange platform without explaining as to
how he came to know about the financial potential of the impugned
scrip when the balance sheets, turnover and past history showed that
any prudent investor would not go anywhere near this scrip. (iv) Udit Kalra ITA 220/2019 & CM No. 10774/2019 dated 08/01/2019
(Delhi High Court): The assessee had purchased shares of penny stock
Kappac Pharma in off-market transactions at very nominal price. The
shares were later received in demat format and sold subsequently on
stock exchange. Relying upon the report of Investigation Wing, the fact
of off-market purchase, the irrational hike in prices of the scrip within a
short span of time had weighed heavily with the Hon'ble High Court
who upheld that the transactions were bogus and LTCG claim was
denied (v) Sanjay Bimalchand Jain [2018] 89 taxmann.com 196 (Bombay): thereby earning long-term capital gain of Rs. 68,87,029/-, The AO held
the same as bogus/sham transactions considering the report of
Investigation wing of Kolkata, the unexplained price rice in penny stock
and preponderance of human probabilities. Hon'ble Tribunal upheld the
order of the AO. (vii) Rohit Agarwal (ITA No.1939/Kol/2018, AY 2014-15, decision dated
05/06/2023), Hon'ble ITAT has held as below: In the result, appeal of the assessee is dismissed." (viii) Krishna Devi ITA 6356/Del/2019 dated 04/01/2022: Hon'ble
ITAT, Delhi had the occasion to decide upon similar issue of bogus LTCG
claim on a similar penny stock scrip as the present appellant and
upheld AO's order. (ix) Sanat Kumar [2020] 122 taxmann.com 75 (Delhi Trib.): Where
assessee purchased and sold shares of a company which was engaged
in providing bogus entries in form of LTCG and STCG and assessee
failed to prove genuineness of transaction, alleged LTCG earned by
assessee on such shares was rightly brought to tax under section 68 of
the Act. 6.2.10 Therefore, considering the facts and circumstances of the case
and respectfully following and relying upon the decision of the Hon'ble
Courts as above, I am of the considered view that AO had rightly
rejected the claim of the appellant regarding long term capital gains on
such sham transactions and adding back gains of Rs. 72,96,366/- to
income of the appellant. Ground no. 3 of appeal is hereby dismissed. Chintan Shailesh Shah, Mumbai

6.3. Ground no. 4: It pertains to the claim that the AO was not justified
in making addition of Rs. 3,79,818/- u/s 69C of the Act. 6.3.1 Regarding the AO adding the commission of Rs. 3,79,818/- being
3% of transaction in penny stock, the appellant has taken the plea that
since his transactions were genuine, such addition is not sustainable. On this issue, it is noted that once the transaction has been held as
bogus and sham, it is a natural corollary that the appellant had paid
some amount to the accommodation entry providers to arrange such
elaborate entries. In case of Abhishek Gupta [2023] 147 taxmann.com 21 (Indore-Trib.),
also discussed in preceding paragraphs of this order, Hon'ble Tribunal
had held under circumstances similar to that of the appellant that

 "AO has made this addition on the premise that the assessee
 must have certainly incurred expenditure @ 2% of Rs. 64,58,
 168/- in paying commission/charges to the persons engaged for
 arranging bogus capital gain. We observe that the amount added
 by Ld. AO is reasonable and it does not call for any interference
 by us." In case of Rohit Agarwal (ITA No.1939/Kol/2018, AY 2014-15, decision
dated purchased and sold shares of a company which was engaged in
providing bogus entries in form of LTCG and STCG and assessee failed
to prove genuineness of transaction, alleged LTCG earned by assessee
on such shares was rightly brought to tax under section 68 of the Act. 6.2.10 Therefore, considering the facts and circumstances of the case
and respectfully following and relying upon the decision of the Hon'ble
Courts as above, I am of the considered view that AO had rightly
rejected the claim of the appellant regarding long term capital gains on
such sham transactions and adding back gains of Rs. 72,96,366/- to
income of the appellant. Ground no. 3 of appeal is hereby dismissed. 6.3. Ground no. 4: It pertains to the claim that the AO was not justified
in making addition of Rs. 3,79,818/- u/s 69C of the Act. 6.3.1 Regarding the AO adding the commission of Rs. 3,79,818/- being
3% of transaction in penny stock, the appellant has taken the plea that
since his transactions were genuine, such addition is not sustainable. On this issue, it is noted that once the transaction has been held as
bogus and sham, it is a natural corollary that the appellant had paid 29 ITA No. 2469/Mum/2024 Chintan Shailesh Shah, Mumbai

 some amount to the accommodation entry providers to arrange such
 elaborate entries. In case of Abhishek Gupta [2023] 147 taxmann.com 21 (Indore-Trib.),
 also discussed in preceding paragraphs of this order, Hon'ble Tribunal
 had held under circumstances similar to that of the appellant that

 "AO has made this addition on the premise that the assessee must have
 certainly incurred expenditure @ 2% of Rs. 64,58, 168/- in paying
 commission/charges to the persons engaged for arranging bogus capital
 gain. We observe that the amount added by Ld. AO is reasonable and it
 does not call for any interference by us." In case of Rohit Agarwal (ITA No.1939/Kol/2018, AY 2014-15, decision
 dated 6.5 Ground no. 6 & 7: These grounds are general in nature and
 do not require separate adjudication. 7. As a result, the appeal is to be treated as partly allowed. 5. After having gone through the orders passed by the
revenue authorities, we noticed that Ld. CIT(A) has
considered the entire facts and circumstances of the
present case and even the Ld.AO has meticulously verified
the entire facts and also justifiably looked into the 'real
nature' of the transaction and carried out extensive
analyzes of share price moment and final data of the penny
stock. He has also recorded the statement of assessee,
collected the judicial ratio regarding test of preponderance
of human probabilities and only then AO arrived at final
finding in his order that the transactions were 'sham'. 6. Now before us, no documentary evidences or written
submissions have been filed to controvert the findings
recorded by the CIT(A). Therefore, I find no reasons to 30 ITA No. 2469/Mum/2024 Chintan Shailesh Shah, Mumbai

interfere into the orders so passed by the Ld. CIT(A). The
assessee has neither rebutted nor controverter the decision
rendered by Ld. CIT(A) therefore, we find no reasons to
deviate from the findings so recorded by the revenue
authorities, accordingly the grounds of appeal raised by
the asesssee stands dismissed. 7. In the result, the appeal filed by the assessee stands
dismissed with no order as to cost. Order pronounced in the open court on 17.02.2025. आदे श की ितिलिप अ ेिषत/Copy of the Order forwarded to : /
 आदे शानुसार BY ORDER,
 स ािपत ित //True Copy// 1.
 उप/सहायक पंजीकार ( Asst. Registrar)
 आयकर अपीलीय अिधकरण, मु बई / ITAT, Mumbai