Coram: HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE PRADEEP KUMAR SRIVASTAVA ------ For the Petitioner : Mr. Mukesh Bihari Lal, Advocate
 For the State : Mr. Praful Jojo, A.P.P
 For the Informant : Mr. Lukesh Kumar, Advocate ------ Order No.09/Dated- 03.05.2024
 Heard learned counsel for the parties. 2. Apprehending his arrest in connection with Saraidhela P.S. Case
 No. 179 of 2022 registered under Sections 406 / 420 / 467 / 468 / 34 of the
 Indian Penal Code, the petitioner has moved this Court for grant of
 privilege of anticipatory bail. 3. As per F.I.R., allegation upon the petitioner is that he make a
 fraud to an old person, he had opened a Demat account in S.M.C.
 Global Securities Ltd, Bankmore, Branch Saraidhela, Dhanbad and its
 trading account number is XKK0040. It is alleged that on 20.03.2020
 during spread of COVID-19 pandemic present petitioner which
 employs as Relationship Manager of the said branch visited to the
 house of informant and demanded two cheques for purchasing shares
 of Reliance Industries and H.D.F.C. Bank which were available at
 reasonable price at that time and the said shares would be purchased
 through the Demat account of the informant. The informant believing
 upon the version of the petitioner handed over two cheques for
 purchasing the shares and thereafter, through WhatsApp message
 present petitioner informed that he got 50 shares of reliance and 300
 shares of reliance was already in the aforesaid account and 50 shares of
 H.D.F.C. Bank. After sometime, when petitioner felt need of money and
 intended to withdraw by selling and purchasing of shares then, he
 found that Demat Account was nil and the cheque which was handed
 over to the present petitioner was filled up with 35,000/- and 50,000/-
 and were deposited in the personal bank account of the present
 petitioner. 4. Learned counsel for the petitioner has submitted that petitioner
 is innocent and has committed no offence at all rather he has falsely
 been implicated in this case. It is further submitted that at the time of
 COVID-19 pandemic, he was in need of money hence, he used the
 cheques of the informant for filling up the amount of Rs.85,000/- in two
 cheques and used the same. Thereafter, he has returned the money in
 cash to the informant, but there is dispute about the claim of some
 interest by the informant hence, he has lodged this false case. It is
 further submitted that so far withdrawal of money is concerned, there is
 no possible way that any other person except the depositor or the
 person or who is holding that Demat account to withdraw from it.
 Therefore, the allegation is not sustainable in law. Petitioner undertakes
 to co-operate with the investigation of the case and is ready to deposit
 Rs. 85,000/- in the bank account of the informant within three weeks.
 Hence, the petitioner may be extended the privilege of anticipatory bail. 5. Learned Addl.P.P appearing for the State assisted by learned
 counsel for the informant has vehemently opposed the prayer for
 anticipatory bail of the petitioner and submitted that there is direct and
 specific allegation against the petitioner about commission of fraud to
 the informant in the mode of payment of money. There is no proof
 regarding the return of money through cash. The bank account of the
 petitioner itself disclosed about the deposit of cheque issued by the
 informant in his account. The Demat account of the informant was also
 found nil. It is submitted by the learned A.P.P. that inspite of protection
 from arrest, granted by the Court, the petitioner has not complied with
 the notice issued to him under Section 41A of Cr.P.C. Therefore,
 petitioner does not deserve anticipatory bail. 6. Considering the facts and circumstances of the case and prima
 facie sufficient materials showing the direct involvement of the present
 petitioner in defrauding the informant and cheating his amount of
 Rs.85,000/- and also in view of that fact that inspite of protection from
 arrest given by this Court, the petitioner has not complied with the
 notice under Section 41A Cr.P.C. in letter and spirit and tried to sent the
 reply through post as pleaded by the learned counsel for the petitioner.
 I do not feel inclined to grant privilege of anticipatory bail to the
 petitioner, which stands rejected. (Pradeep Kumar Srivastava, J.)
Amar/Sunil