Heard learned counsel for the petitioners, learned

 counsel for the informant and learned APP for the State. Petitioners, in the present case, are seeking pre-arrest

 bail in connection with Muzaffarpur Town P.S. Case No.

 518/2022 registered for the offences under Sections

 419 / 420 / 467 / 468 / 470 / 471 of the Indian Penal Code. Petitioners

 have no criminal antecedent as stated in paragraph '3' of the

 application. As per the prosecution story, the case of the informant

 is that he had purchased by way of registered sale deed in the
 Patna High Court CR. MISC. No.8453 of 2023(3) dt.17-05-2023 2/4 year 1986 from one Hanuman Prasasd and later on got mutated

 in his name itself. The informant with his family had gone to

 Indore for his work and the said property was under the control

 of the petitioner no. 1. He further alleged that he decided to sell

 the said property and on 08.03.2011 he had executed a

 registered power of attorney in favour of both the co-sharers for

 equal parts of land admeasuring area of 4 ½ Dhurs of each.

 Pramod Kumar and this petitioner had given some money

 through cheques but after passing of the year, except above

 payments, no other payments has been made. It is alleged that

 the petitioner had mortgaged the original document of the

 property with the Indian Bank and by making forged signature

 of the informant this petitioner has made him as guarantor of the

 extended loan. It is also alleged that when the certified copies of

 the sale deeds received by the informant on 03.06.2022 he came

 to know that on the basis of cancelled power of attorney the

 forgery has been committed by fabricating the documents in

 favour of their respective wives. This matter was heard yesterday. This Court recorded

 the following order: Today, in course of argument, learned counsel for the

 petitioners submits that there is no chance of amicable

 resolution of dispute. This Court has considered the rival submissions.

 Although learned counsel for the petitioners has tried to

 persuade this Court to take a view that it is a case of purely civil

 dispute and the petitioners be granted privilege of anticipatory
 Patna High Court CR. MISC. No.8453 of 2023(3) dt.17-05-2023 4/4 bail but this Court finds from the nature of the allegations that it

 is the specific case of the informant that petitioner no. 1 and 2

 who are husband and wife respectively have indulged in

 alienation of the property of the informant by making forged

 signature of the informant who is living outside his ancestral

 village in connection with his job. The allegation is that

 signatures have also been forged in order to make the petitioners

 a guarantor of the loan which has been obtained by the

 petitioners by mortgaging the property which has been

 conveyed by forging the signature of the informant. There being

 serious allegations of commission of forgery and thereby

 depriving the informant from his property, this Court is not

 inclined to grant privilege of pre-arrest bail to the petitioners. Prayer for anticipatory bail of the petitioners is, thus,

 refused. This application is dismissed. (Rajeev Ranjan Prasad, J)
Rajeev/-