14.20 hrs. 

Title: Further discussion on General Budget, 2002-03; General Discussion Demands for Grants on Account (General ), 2002-03; Demands for Supplementary Grants (General), 2002-03 and Demands For Excess Grants (General), 1998-99. (Concluded) 

MR. CHAIRMAN : Now, we are resuming the General Budget discussion. Shri Kharabela Swain. SHRI KHARABELA SWAIN ( BALASORE ): Sir, from the core of my heart, I congratulate the hon. Finance Minister for presenting such a courageous Budget. A derailed economy … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: Budget needs finance. It needs no courage. SHRI PRIYA RANJAN DASMUNSI ( RAIGANJ ): Sir, thank you for your observation. … (Interruptions) SHRI KHARABELA SWAIN : Sir, since you were in the Chair, I must not comment. … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: All right, I said it in the lighter vein. SHRI KHARABELA SWAIN : Sir, the hon. Finance Minister has tried to put the derailed economy back on the rails. He has done it with exemplary courage. He has shown exemplary courage in not trying to show fiscal heroism. He has not found this occasion for making glorious promises. Rather, basically he has gone for the do-able things, which could be done, which could be achieved. When the debate started yesterday, I listened with rapt attention to, at least, two of the hon. Members from the Opposition. They are Shri Mani Shankar Aiyar and Shri Rupchand Pal. डॉ. रघुवंश प्रसाद सिंह ( वैशाली ): सुबोध मोहिते जी भी बोले थे। SHRI KHARABELA SWAIN : I listened to the speech of Shri Subodh Mohite also. Shri Mani Shankar Aiyar said that the Budget was full of potholes and everything was wrong in the Budget. The hon. Finance Minister who has presented his fifth Budget was wrong everywhere. He was wrong five years back. He was also wrong last year. He is also wrong this year. He did not say a single word of praise for the hon. Finance Minister. He said that in everything and everywhere he had gone wrong. But, at least, I wanted a single sentence of suggestion for how to go right. Yes, he had gone wrong everywhere. It is all right. But how to set it right? How to bring back the economy to the rails? How to stimulate growth in India? He did not have a single suggestion. I am not surprised because Shri Mani Shankar Aiyar is as confused as his Party is. For the last 50 years, when Congress Party ruled over this country, what was their economic target? How did they want that growth should be stimulated in this country and the lot of the poor people in this country should be changed? What did they want? The Congress people basically wanted that everybody in this country should get everything free. Everything should be subsidised. You give IRDP loan through loan melas and ask them not to refund the money. You, in the name of rural electrification, put electric poles in every village and ask them not to pay. You give rice two rupees a kilo, ask the blackmarketeers to take 70 per cent of that rice and sell it and become millionaires. You give kerosene two or three rupees a litre and ask the adulterators to adulterate 70 per cent of that subsidised kerosene by mixing it with petrol and diesel. This was the policy of the Congress Party for the last 50 years. That is the basic reason why the country has been impoverished. This is not the way to boost the economy of this country or boost the economic conditions of the poor people. This is only the way to make a poor person perpetually poor. You make him permanently poor so that every time he will come to the Government with a bowl in his hand and say, दे दे अल्लाह के नाम पर, दे दे। That is what they wanted the people to become and the people have also become like that. Shri Mani Shankar Aiyar said and the way he spoke was that the only Vikramaditya’s golden era in India was late Shri Rajiv Gandhi’s era. This was the only golden era. Everything was so good; everybody was so happy and prosperous. May I ask a simple question? If that was so good, if during the four year’s reign of late Shri Rajiv Gandhi or during the regime of late Shrimati Indira Gandhi, the economic growth was the highest in India, then why was it that the people of this country kicked them out of power? If that was so good, why did they lose many elections? They had to wait for somebody’s assassination to come back to power because the economic condition was bad. It was wrong. The policy per se was wrong. I listened with rapt attention to Shri Rupchand Pal. He indulged in the same old Leftist rhetorics. There was nothing new; not a single sentence was new. I would give you some examples. I would give an example of his practical ideas. He said, ‘Why do you not use the massive food stock for rural infrastructure?’ He wanted that rice should be given to the workers and that they would prepare or construct rural infrastructure. If he were a practical man, I would just simply put a question. Excepting building kutcha roads or digging some ponds what construction work could be got done by giving rice to the people? Can you get a pucca road or a school building built by giving them rice? We have the example of the Employment Assurance Scheme. Under the Employment Assurance Scheme, seventy per cent of the lost was supposed to be labour component and thirty per cent only was to be the cash component. Tell me, if you build a school building, a clubhouse or a hospital, would the labour component be seventy per cent? It would hardly be ten per cent to twenty per cent and the cash component would be eighty per cent. You require steel, cement and other things for such a construction. So, you require cash; you do not require rice for doing this. It is simply not possible that you could build rural infrastructure by distributing rice to the poor people. It is simply not practicable but he asked why the Finance Minister did not do that because it sounds very good. Basically, what do all hon. Members say? They raise two or three questions – why there was an industrial slowdown, why no employment was generated and why there was a demand recession. These were the three basic questions put by hon. Members. With regard to employment, I have a basic question. Can employment be generated by creating unproductive jobs? How are you going to generate employment? It is by stimulating growth that you can create an environment for self-employment. There is no Government in the world that could provide jobs to everybody. It is simply not possible. Hon. Member Shri Rupchand Pal several times referred to China. Last year, a delegation of MPs had gone to China. Shri Tiwari is sitting there. He also came with us. When the Leftists were invited to come, they said they would not go with us. They refused to go because they knew pretty well what was happening in China. They knew that they would be embarrassed if they went there and so they deliberately refused to go. They are now giving the example of China. Do they know how do the Chinese employ their people? Do they know how much of FDI they have attracted to their country? Do they know that even in the retail sector they have allowed foreign direct investments? Let them go to China and see it for themselves. The people of Hong Kong, Taiwan, Germany, America and Japan have virtually invaded China. Shri Raghuvansh Prasad Singh said that Shri Subodh Mohite also said something about this. He said that our hon. Finance Minister had prepared this Budget under the pressure of the World Bank. He said that the hon. Finance Minister had raised the cost of LPG cylinder by Rs.40 and increased the price of kerosene by Rs.1.50. So, he said that it was done because of the pressure of the World Bank. Is it true that only those people who speak in the name of poor are the rashtrabhakts and we are all dalals of the World Bank? We are also from a political party. Did not the middle class people vote for us? Shall we not go for vote again? Do we not have the interest of that community in our heart? But how are you going to do that? I am bringing to your notice one point with regard to LPG cylinder. They say that it is going to affect the poor. Which poor person of the country is utilising the LPG cylinder? Is there anybody in this country belonging to salaried class who is getting less than Rs.10,000 salary now? Why should the Government provide subsidised LPG cylinder to somebody who is getting more than Rs.10,000 as salary? This is my basic question. I am just raising it on the floor of this House. There are five crore LPG connections in this country. … (Interruptions) SHRI A.C. JOS ( TRICHUR ): Shri Swain, will you yield for a minute? When you say that LPG is used by people above Rs.10,000, request your hon. Finance Minister to reduce the price of kerosene oil which is used by all the common people. SHRI KHARABELA SWAIN : Sir, I have already told that 70 per cent of the subsidised kerosene is being utilised for adulterating petrol and diesel. There is a huge black-market in the country which is flourishing only because of the subsidised kerosene. So, I do not want that the price of kerosene should be reduced in any way.… (Interruptions) Now I am coming to the point. Let us, for the sake of argument, say that there are five crore LPG connections in this country. Let us, for the sake of argument say that no house is having more than one LPG connection. Let us say that there are five crore households which are having LPG connections. If one household consists of five persons, then it will be safely presumed that 25 crore people of this country are benefited by LPG cylinders. What about the rest of the 78 crore people? Why should 78 crore people subsidise for the need of 25 crore people only? That is the basic question I am asking. Why should we give this privilege only to 25 crore people? It should not be given. I am opposed even to the reduction in the price of LPG cylinder by Rs.20, that has been declared. I am personally opposed even to that. श्री लक्ष्मण सिंह ( राजगढ़ ): इसका जवाब जनता देगी, फिर वहां से यहां अपोजीन में बैठना पड़ेगा। SHRI KHARABELA SWAIN : Sir, the janata has already given its verdict several times and they will show the way to the Congress people in future also. Let them sit there for another 10-20 years. We are just bringing this country to the right direction and we will do it and our Finance Minister and our hon. Prime Minister would lead the country in the right direction. Let them not be perturbed about that. Now I come to the question of agricultural subsidy. People say that so much of subsidy is being given in USA, in Europe and in other countries, so why should we not give subsidy in our country also? In Europe and in America, hardly two to three per cent of the people resort to agriculture. There, agriculture is not a culture, it is agri-business. It is basically a business. One person who is not having three to four thousand acres of land, never goes in for agriculture. It is not like a part of life as we have in this country. So, whereas only three to four per cent of the people in other countries are agriculturists, in our country it is 70 per cent. And we say that you give all the subsidy to the farmer. Sir, we always insult the farmer by saying that he is poor, he is helpless, he does not have anything. We insult him because it is the same farmer who has produced extra quantity of 32.4 million tonnes of wheat and 48.39 million tonnes of rice, which is being stored in the FCI godowns of India. Is it not the same farmer who has done it, whom we say that he is poor? If he is really that poor, if he is really that helpless, how is it that he has produced so much of grain? … (Interruptions) SHRI PRIYA RANJAN DASMUNSI : Sir, this wonderful thesis should be sent to the World Bank.… (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN : He is not yielding, Shri Dasmunsi. You msut make him to yield.… (Interruptions) SHRI AJOY CHAKRABORTY ( BASIRHAT ): He should be inducted in the Cabinet Sir, as assistant of the Finance Minister.… (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: What is this? Everybody is getting up. Shri Chakraborty, please sit down. SHRI KHARABELA SWAIN : Sir, do you expect the so-called senior Members to behave like this in this House? Kindly ask him to at least keep quiet. I am making a speech and it is going on record. The Press people are there. If he wants to say something against me, if he feels that I have said something wrong, he should go to the people and tell them that BJP people are saying like this, so let them not vote for us in the next election. But I have a right to say and I am saying. I shall put forth the point of view of my Government. I am entitled to do it.… (Interruptions) Sir, when they were speaking, I did not utter a single word. So, I would request you to please ask them to keep quiet.… (Interruptions) SHRI PRIYA RANJAN DASMUNSI : Sir, his speech should be circulated in the form of pamphlets to all BJP constituencies.… (Interruptions) SHRI KHARABELA SWAIN : Sir, now let me come to the point of Voluntary Retirement Scheme. I am opposed to what Shri Subodh Mohite said. He is not here. After speaking, he just vanished yesterday. He said, why has this Voluntary Retirement Scheme been brought. Nobody wants voluntary retirement. If you voluntarily retire somebody, he or his wife is going to commit suicide. That is what he said. But the hon. Finance Minister is here. When the bank people, specifically the State Bank of India people, were asked to apply for voluntary retirement, so many people applied for voluntary retirement that the bank authorities had to stop it. They said that we are not going to receive any further applications for that. Is it not true? Can you show me a single person who has committed suicide because he has been given voluntary retirement, taking so much of money, then going to the private sector and occupying another job there also? Are they going to commit suicide? They are the most benefited persons who have taken this voluntary retirement from the Government. So, just spreading canards that the BJP Government has taken away subsidy for fertiliser, subsidy for kerosene, subsidy for gas cylinder, subsidy for agriculturists, so, it is anti-farmer, it is anti-middle class people and it is anti everything, is all basically untrue. Whatever we are doing, we are just doing for the good of the people. It may not be visible today but it will be visible after one or two years. Let the same Opposition Members who are criticising us, who are passing sarcastic remarks against us, go and see for themselves the Quadrilateral National Highway project, which has been declared by our hon. Prime Minister. Here is Shri Khanduri – he is sitting here. The Business Today and all other magazines have written that everybody should learn a lesson from the Ministry of Surface Transport which Shri Khanduri heads about project implementation. They should learn from the Ministry of Surface Transport and the Department of National Highways and see for themselves. What they could not imagine for the last 50 years, the hon. Minister has achieved it. You see in what speed the National Highway is being built. The same is also criticised with regard to the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana. I agree that sometimes the advice of the MPs are not taken into consideration. My advice has not also been taken into account. I agree. But kindly go and see in what way this scheme is being implemented. There is some specification as to how it should be built – there will be a concrete base and on that there will be tar – so that the road will exist for twenty years and it will not be damaged. You go and see for yourself. I dare say that in Orissa, because we have not implemented the specifications in toto, the Vigilance Department officials from the Centre went there and suspended one BDO and some of the Junior Engineers. This can happen elsewhere also. It has happened in Orissa. This has come in the newspapers. We know it pretty well. The Government is also very specific about this project . I can say that this is one of the infrastructure-building measures which is going to boost the rural economy. Sir, I will conclude in five minutes. I now come to the last point. A question was asked as to why there is a demand recession and why is there a recession in the industrial sector. The hon. Minister of Finance gave four types of tax rebates to the middle class people last year in his Budget. That is why the collection of revenue was much less. What did he expect? He expected that it would boost the demand so that it would give a boost to the industrial sector also. But this has never happened. Therefore, the hon. Minister of Finance did not have any other go but to go in for the rural sector and the agricultural sector. He has given so much of incentives to the rural sector, to the milk-producing sector and the foodgrains production sector that there will be money in the pockets of the farmers in the future. If there is a boost to agricultural sector, there will be an automatic boost to the industry and there will be a growth in the industrial sector and the industrial sector growth is directly or indirectly linked to the employment generation. These are all inter-linked. I mean to say that he has gone in a very right way by just trying to boost the economy of the rural sector. With regard to the cut in the interest rate for small savings, everybody says that the senior citizens of this country are going to lose because they have put their money with the hope that much of money will come to them as interest. But I am asking a very basic question. Kindly go to any developed country in the world. Which country gives 12 per cent rate of interest to anybody for any small savings? In the U.S. they had cut the existing interest rate six times last year. Now the interest rate is 1.5 per cent in the U.S. The basic economics says that the small-scale savings interest rate should be synonymous with the rate of inflation. The rate of inflation in India, for the last five years, is only 4.5 per cent. If the rate of inflation is only 4.5 per cent, why should there be an interest rate of 12 per cent? It has been reduced to 9 per cent now. The hon. Members of the Opposition were asking for two contradictory things. They said : Why have you reduced the subsidy; and why have you not reduced the fiscal deficits. How could these two things be inter-linked? On the one hand you said ‘go on giving subsidies’ and on the other you said ‘go on just giving more and more interest to everybody’. How could the fiscal deficit be reduced? How is it possible? I would rather congratulate the hon. Minister of Finance who has been able to reduce the Government cost by Rs. 10,000 crore last year. I congratulate him for that. But that is not sufficient. I agree. One of the hon. Members, Shri Subodh Mohite was saying that some Minister’s PA had a car and he moved around. For that reason, he had to pay Rs. 3 lakh. Who was the Minister? He also belongs to the same Ruling Party. He is also having two Ministers in this coalition Government. Why did he not tell who is the Minister, who has utilised it? Merely saying that and making wild allegations that there is some Minister’s PA who took the car and spent the entire money of the nation, will not help. Is this the way we are going to cut the expenditure of the Government? Is it the main expenditure? The main expenditure is interest burden and you cannot reduce it. Even if you desire, you cannot reduce interest burden because interest burden is fixed and interest burden is fixed because you are paying such a high rate of interest on small savings. So, his arithmetic is correct. The Finance Minister’s economy is correct that he has reduced the interest rate. I would request him to reduce it further also. He can bring it to eight per cent. Sir, I will request him to do this. Sir, I just congratulate him for two more things. … (Interruptions) SHRI LAKSHMAN SINGH ( RAJGARH ): Has he no time-limit? MR. CHAIRMAN : If he has talked for longer time, it will be deducted from the time of his party and other Members will be penalised. The time is allocated to each party. … (Interruptions) SHRI KHARABELA SWAIN : Sir, it hurts them. They do not want to listen to the truth. They do not want that anybody should speak the truth in this House. That is why, they are perturbed. I understand that. … (Interruptions) SHRI PRIYA RANJAN DASMUNSI ( RAIGANJ ): Sir, let him speak for full time of the BJP. It will help us. SHRI KHARABELA SWAIN ( BALASORE ): Sir, finally, I come to the conclusion. I congratulate the Finance Minister for having given Rs. 500 crore for the urban development. He has given this amount of Rs. 500 crore for the purpose of reform-linked assistance to the States. He has kept Rs. 14,000 crore for the States who are going in for reforms in every sphere of life. Any State, which will go for reforms, will get more money. That is one of the most innovative ideas which has been taken up by the hon. Finance Minister. That is why, I congratulate him. I also congratulate him for going for so many things. He has understood the importance of the ports. He has understood the importance of tourism. He has understood the importance of …. MR. CHAIRMAN: There are eight hon. Members from your party who want to speak. SHRI KHARABELA SWAIN : I will complete it within two minutes. He has understood the importance of food-processing because food- processing and tourism are capable of providing enormous employment in this country. He has understood that and given weightage to those sectors. I congratulate him for that also. Finally, the airports, the housing sector, the growth in tourism sector, the steel industry and textile sector are the harbingers of growth. So, he has gone for giving a boost to them. I will just give one or two suggestions to him and conclude. With regard to the reforms in the power sector, I would say that Orissa was the first State which went in for power sector reforms and it has almost failed. The major problem there is that the money is not being collected from the people. Now, the general impression of the people is that the successive Governments have let off the corporate houses for their default in payment. The common man feels like this while the industry feels that it is the common people who are not paying the money. So, what is to be done? If you fail in Orissa, no other State will go in for power sector reforms. So, Kindly go there and just see that the power sector reforms – Orissa is harbinger in that regard – do succeed. Sir, I will make one more request to the Finance Minister that if he has gone for widening of the service tax net, why has he not brought the doctors and lawyers under the net of the service tax? Why do you not go for it? Kindly go for that because they really are the money-earners of the society. They are capable of just paying it. MR. CHAIRMAN : You have taken half-an-hour. SHRI KHARABELA SWAIN : Lastly, my suggestion is please go for the labour reforms also because this is one of the reasons for which the industry is not growing as it should be. Please go for it. It requires courage, and you have that courage. With these words, I conclude. SHRI JYOTIRADITYA M. SCINDIA ( GUNA ): Mr. Chairman, Sir, at the outset, I would like to place on record our deepest condolences on the passing away of our late Speaker, beloved Shri Balayogi. Mr. Chairman, Sir, the hon. Finance Minister said in his Budget statement: Nothing could be farther from the truth. I now proceed to elucidate this. The economy, Mr. Chairman, Sir, is in a decelerating phase and urgent steps are required to restore the momentum. Developmental objectives and economic prosperity are measured not only in terms of GDP or per capita income growth, but also in terms of human well-being index. Let us briefly examine some of these. According to the World Bank figures, almost 433 million Indians live on less than Rs. 50 per day. Fifty per cent of our children between the ages of one and five in rural areas are undernourished. In the growth of competitiveness index measured among 75 countries in the world, India stood at the forty-eighth position in the year 2000. Our ranking has been further lowered to the fifty - seventh position in the year 2001. We, today, have 17 per cent of the world’s population. However, we share only a half per cent of the world’s trade and only 1.1 per cent of the world’s GDP. Compared with China, our literacy rate is 50 per cent of theirs. At the same time, our population growth is 50 per cent greater than theirs. We, today, have the unique distinction of adding more than the population of an Australia every single year to our country, more than 16 million people, Mr. Chairman, Sir. I would now like to move and talk a little bit about the macro economic picture. Here, we are faced with the greatest political irony -- while we are fastly moving towards a Hindu rate of growth, we are witnessing a secular decline in our economy. Our growth rate -- today, the comparison being made of 5.4 per cent against a backdrop of 2.4 per cent in the world as an average -- is rather misleading. The relative comparison, I firmly believe, is much more important than the absolute one. With a US $ 400 per capita income rate and the size of our resources, a five per cent GDP growth rate, Mr. Chairman, Sir, is nothing to be proud about, when countries like Taiwan and Korea around us have a per capita income growth rate and a per capita income of more than US $ 10,000 per person. Our GDP growth rate in the 1992-96 period grew from 5.1 per cent to 8 per cent. In contrast, in the last three years of the BJP Government we have seen a slithering of this growth rate from 6.4 per cent to a nadir of 3.9 per cent last year. The growth in the Ninth Plan at 5.4 per cent is the same average, Mr. Chairman, Sir, as the growth in the Sixth Plan which was almost twenty years ago. The Central fiscal deficit today at 5.7 per cent – which again I firmly believe once the last figures come in – would be closer to 6.1 per cent. It is rather alarming. This, combined with the States deficit will reach a total deficit figure of close to ten per cent, a rather alarming figure indeed. Mr. Chairman, Sir, today our revenue deficit is coming close to four per cent of GDP. This deficit is consistently met with higher borrowings. So much so, today, the Debt Re-service payments constitute close to 70 per cent of our tax revenue. National debt today, Mr. Chairman, Sir, is 85 per cent of GDP, just a notch below Pakistan’s 105 per cent. These are all issues that we should be aware of. It comes as a little surprise then that our sovereign debt today is rated just marginally below the Junk Bonds. We could be easily heading for an economic Debt Trap or, even worse, hyper-inflation and economic collapse. Our prime lending rate today is a matter of great debate. Our PLRs today stand at 12 per cent. This needs to be examined in the backdrop of a 1.1 per cent inflation rate which thereby implies that today in the economy one is facing a real rate of interest of beyond 10.5 per cent. At this real rate of interest it is inadvisable for new investments to come in, let alone upgradation of old facilities. Sir, our FOREX reserves today are something that we are very proud about. They stand at about 50 billion dollars. However, these reserves consist mainly of flight capital, unlike China that consists mainly of trade surpluses on the current account. Our debt and our Foreign Institution Investment constitute 95 per cent of these FOREX reserves. At the first instance of pressure either on our foreign exchange or on our debt, this would be the first capital to get flight out of the country. In any case, Foreign Direct Investment which is the real Harbinger of true growth today is at four billion dollars per annum in India, whereas in China, our neighbour, we have a rate of Foreign Direct Investment of 40 billion dollars per annum. So, net-net, what is our position today? Interest payments consume 51 per cent of our total revenues, add to that Defence – 26 per cent, followed closely by pay and pensions at 14 and seven per cent. This totals to 98 per cent of our revenue. These are completely pre-empted. This implies that in future all developmental expenditure, all capital expenditure must come from extra borrowings, an alarming situation indeed. Mr. Chairman, Sir, I now would like to briefly talk about the Budget. Last year our expenditure rose by 12 per cent and we had a commensurate rise in tax revenue of about four per cent. Our fiscal deficit can either be lowered by decreasing expenditure or increasing revenue. It has been forecast that our tax revenue would rise by more than 20 per cent this year. As industry contributes more than 80 per cent of our tax revenue, this implies that industry must grow at more than eight per cent in this coming fiscal year, a fact that cannot be denied by any one of us, is an impossibility. The last figures that came in for the last quarter of 2001 shows that industry grew at a miserable rate of 2.3 per cent. Industry which is touted as an engine of growth is now spattering and there are concerns about the competitiveness of Indian industry on the world stage. 15.00 hrs. 

The Increase in agricultural production, which by itself has declined from a 4.4 per cent growth rate to 2.1 per cent, is just not enough to generate this growth. Therefore, the only other avenue that we can look at is an increase in investment. The average gestation lag in the economy for investment to really reap fruit is about two and a half years. And in the last two years, Mr. Chairman, Sir, the investment growth rates in India have been between 23 and 24 per cent of GDP as opposed to 36 per cent of GDP in China. For an 8 per cent GDP growth rate which is what we require, the ICOR, or the Incremental Capital Output Ratio, that is required from an investment point of view is beyond 32.6 per cent. In addition to this, savings has to increase at a rate of 30 per cent which today is at a miserable level of 23 per cent. Now, let us look at some of the data. Public investment in this Budget has increased by Rs.9,700 crore which is only 0.4 per cent of GDP. So, it is quite clear that this increase in investment cannot come from the public side. So, the only other area we can turn to is really the private sector. And the private sector, given the incentive by only a higher depreciation cover of two per cent interest rates will not be able to bring about this required 8 per cent growth in investment. Tax revenues and disinvestments, Mr. Chairman, Sir, were the two main areas of shortcomings in the last year’s Budget. Unfortunately, the hon. Finance Minister is relying on these two very areas to bring about an increase in revenues for the next Budget, fiscal year 2002-03. The disinvestment target that has been set of Rs.12,000 crore was last pierced only in the year 1994-95. On the other hand, tax revenues of GDP, which have been targeted at 6.8 per cent, was only pierced in the year 1996-97. Just how little financial flexibility the Government possesses can be judged from the fact that this year, in spite of a recessionary economy we are looking at a raise in income tax. This is indeed, a unique spectacle. Consumption growth today has fallen from 6 per cent to 2.9 per cent. This is the time, Mr. Chairman, Sir, to lower taxes, to spur consumption, to spur savings and, therefore, to spur growth. India’s tax GDP ratio today is one of the lowest in the world. We are talking about a tax to GDP ratio of about 8.5 per cent. The Budget proposes to further burden the taxpayers, instead of increasing tax compliance. The hon. Finance Minister has made statements to the effect that we do need to increase the tax compliance. But the implementation of these proposals is yet to be seen. Now, let us take a little while to examine the expenditure side. Our Defence budget has been increased by a measly 5 per cent to Rs.65,000 crore. This is in an environment, Mr. Chairman, Sir, where we are facing dire external threats. The need of the hour is to modernise our armed forces, to provide necessary equipment to our soldiers who in their quest to defend our motherland are laying down their lives. In addition to this, still lives are continuously lost whether on the mountain caps of Kashmir or on antiquated fighter planes due to obsolete equipment. It is shocking to see that out of the Rs.20,000 crore devoted to capital expenditure last year, close to 15 per cent, which is Rs.3,000 crore, remained unspent. Of the Rs.65,000 crore in the Defence budget, 70 per cent goes towards revenue expenditure and only the balance 30 per cent towards capital expenditure. I now rest my case by quoting the hon. Defence Minister while he was explaining China’s 17 per cent increase in their defence budget this year. He said: "Ultimately, it is economic strength that will decide our military strength." Therefore, in the face of 15 per cent rise in expenditure and a commensurate only 8 per cent to 10 per cent rises in revenues for the next fiscal, we should all be prepared for a much higher fiscal deficit which I think should be closer to a 6.8 per cent rate of GDP. This indeed is a very worrisome situation! 

I would like to briefly now talk about capital market reform. Equity flotations in the market were down by 80 per cent. The hon. Finance Minister stated his intention of trying to "Boost investor confidence and strengthen market integrity." He clearly did it so through the imposition of dividend tax in the hands of the investors. This has been particularly detrimental for the common man and especially our senior citizens, who along with dividend taxation, a cut in rebates, a cut in interest rates and a ceiling of Rs. 2 lakh on relief bonds, have no investment avenue to turn to. Last year, the market capitalisation of the BSE Sensex fell by Rs.1,00,000 crore, hitting our small investors. This year, in response to the Budget, the very next day, the BSE Sensex fell by another four per cent. I would now like to briefly talk about the disinvestment policy. The Government has changed its policy from a sale of shares to strategic sales. However, what we should keep in mind is whether we are selling the complete stake of the Government in a particular company or 26 per cent or a higher per cent stake. We must avail and must garner a controlled premium. The evolution and a communication of a transparent disinvestment policy is still awaited. The question that we have to ask is how is the reserve price fixed for companies. Is it done on a discounted cash flow analysis or is it done on an acid valuation model? Is this process consistent? Or does it change on a case to case basis? The answers to these myriad questions still remain mired under heaps of papers while our preciousNavratnas are continuously auctioned. Finally, the hon. Finance Minister has stated that the funds raised from disinvestment will be used to enhance the social sector, sectors such as education, sectors such as health care, etc. Till date, we cannot see a clear implementation of a corpus fund being put together or an implementation of this policy. Instead, today we are witnessing capital receipts from disinvestment being withered away on revenue expenditure. We must be thrifty with our resources and invest them wisely in the social sector, be it in building infrastructure, be it in augmenting the social sector, reducing indebtedness or in productive capital formation. The country requires a reform package with a human face. The Government will have to move away from its half-hearted approach and piecemeal approach and develop a much more targeted package, a package that addresses the competitiveness of Indian industry on the world stage today, a package that addresses the concerns of the weaker sections of the society. The Government today still has a very very important role to play. But it has a role that is very different from the one envisaged in the past. There are many social areas where its role will have to increase. Let us now examine some of these. I would like to first take up agriculture. The hon. Finance Minister in his Budget speech talked about "freedom to the farmers", when in fact, the Governments policies of procurement and pricing has led to only a growing suicide rate of farmers. आज हमें लाल बहादुर शास्त्री जी की याद आती है। उऩका एक बुलन्द नारा था। उनका नारा क्या था - उनका नारा था" जय जवान, जय किसान" लेकिन इस बजट के बाद हमारे जवानों की क्या हालत है और हमारे किसानों की क्या हालत है, वहे हमें वदित है। It was late Shrimati Indira Gandhiji who executed and implemented the Green Revolution. Today we, the Indian citizens, are very proud on the world stage because we have a surplus of food stocks. But the credit to that also must go to our annadata, our farmers and our labourers, who toil on the soil. It was under the stewardship of late Shri Rajiv Gandhi in 1988 and 1989 that agricultural production was given a major fillip through the introduction of technology missions. It was in that period and a result of those policies, Mr. Chairman, Sir, that agricultural production reached a record growth of 16.3 per cent. And, this had an immediate effect on the economic condition of the country. The economic growth rate again reached a record level of 10.6 per cent, a growth rate that has never been pierced ever since. So, the farm sector is critical to the growth of this country. Real public investment in agriculture has fallen by over 20 per cent since 1994-95. The maintenance of the irrigation systems and canals is in a major state of disrepair and the major agricultural research that is required as a fillip to agricultural production today is absent. Today, agriculture in our country is going through a resource squeeze. On the one hand, diesel and fertiliser prices, that constitute 70 per cent of input prices, are rising, on the other, the procurement and pricing policies are making it even more difficult for the common farmer to repay his loans resulting in suicides. The hon. Finance Minister in his Budget speech talked about diversifying crop patterns, the need for a diversification. There is no argument on that score. Mr. Chairman, Sir, but the key issue here now is implementation. It is indeed true that our country today has a surplus production of wheat and rice and we must shift our attention to ensuring that there is a growth in the production of oilseeds and pulses of which even today India is a net importer. However, when one looks at the Budget one sees that as far as oilseeds are concerned, the Plan outlay has reduced by 44 per cent, from Rs.84.7 crore to Rs.44.52 crore. At the same time, the Plan outlay for pulses has reduced from Rs.35 crore to Rs.19 crore, a drop of over 46 per cent. So, what exactly is the Government’s policy, is open to conjecture. I would now like to talk briefly about management of food economy. Clearly, the Government today has no action plan to tackle the issue of burgeoning food stocks. The Food Corporation of India today holds a surplus of 60 million tonnes as opposed to a bufferstock requirement of 70 million tonne. The Hon. Finance Minister chose to remain silent on the road map to liquidate this excess bufferstock other than stating that he was waiting for a report from a Committee on the subject. Unfortunately, this is, here and now a problem. This is a problem that can be transformed into an opportunity. The surplus stocks imply a huge carrying cost of approximately Rs.6,000 crore per annum to the exchequer. It is shocking that we are faced with a situation wherein food stocks are being kept in the open and are rotting due to lack of storage capacities. One wonders what the Government’s policy is going to be in the coming wheat season, which is upon us, in terms of pricing and procurement. It is shameful Mr. Chairman, Sir, that in a country which is in a food surplus situation, we are still faced with a stark reality of starvation related deaths. This fairly and squarely places the blame on the PDS system and the policies of the Government that puts even the necessary sustenance out of the reach of the Below Poverty Line families. The existing food stocks could have provided a massive Food for Work Programme to create employment and build infrastructure. Instead, all that has been done has been that there has been an increase of Rs.371 crore in this Budget. These surplus stocks could have been used to target the 6000 villages, one per cent of the six lakh villages in the country, which face starvation related deaths. But here again is an opportunity that has been lost. The next social sector that we must look at is education. Today, Rs.4900 crore has been given for elementary education which is a grossly low figure even by the Government’s own estimates which puts the figure at Rs.14,000 crore. Assuming that there are 150 million children in the age group of 6 to 14 years, this works out to a measly Rs.1.50 per student per day. The nutritional support programme for primary school children has been given a marginal hike to Rs.1057 crore from Rs.1031 crore. Sir, the question that I would like to put is how can the Centre and the States implement the Supreme Court order of providing free mid-day meal to all students with this amount of an outlay? The outlay to four IIMs, which are the pillars of institutional excellence today in the country, has been reduced from the revised estimates of Rs.102 crore to Rs.72 crore in the next fiscal year. During 1991-95, the Congress Government had committed 6 per cent of GDP to education by the year 2002. At that point of time the level of commitment to education was at 4 per cent. Since then, today that level has come down to below 3 per cent. I do understand that there is a Centre-State inter dependency on this issue. But we must develop a targeted programme and a targeted package that raises this to the 6 per cent level that was committed by us in Copenhagen, Beijing, and also in Bali. Sir, we are a knowledge based society. The world is a knowledge based society today. Until this knowledge percolates down to the grass-root level, India will not prosper and India will not grow. I would like finally to spend a few minutes talking about employment. With both industry and agriculture flogging today, it is not surprising that unemployment is rising in the country. Average growth of job seekers in the nineties grew at about 2.6 per cent per annum. In contrast to this, average employment growth in the last four years of the BJP Government has reduced to a negative 0.075 per cent. Therefore, net-net there has been no job creation. In the last four years, we have added 2.8 to 3 million to the category of educated unemployed. Almost, a third of our population today – 285 million people – live in urban areas. The number of cities with the population greater than one million has increased to 35. Our cities are choking with pollution and the infrastructure is under tremendous pressure. This calls for not only a re-thinking on urban reform but also it is a call, it is a herald, and it is a harbinger that we need to take industrialisation to the rural masses. Gandhiji believed not in mass production. Gandhiji believed in production by the masses. What should concern our policy-makers today is not the dollar amount of capital inflow into the country but what should concern the policy makers today is the number of jobs that each one of those dollars provide. We have to look at sectors where the capital to labour ratio is very low. Today, China has successfully implemented the concept of rural industrialised states. They have created Special Export Zones that span 500 to 750 kilometres, all in the rural hinterland. Our SEZs in Kandla and Santa Cruz are only small islands in comparison. Employment through such schemes and such zones can be provided to the rural population, thus, stemming the migration from the rural hinterland into the urban areas. So, net-net, with the 1.9 per cent growth in population and 26 per cent, I believe is the figure of our population still live below poverty line, we cannot create new opportunities at 1.5 per cent growth rate. We cannot uplift these masses. So, where exactly is the country headed? Where are we headed? The frequent changes and tinkering with policies undermine today the Government’s credibility. We have seen this with the taxation on dividend. We have seen this with the excise duty changes on branded tea or garments; and we have seen this with the change in the tax holiday status given to software companies. Far from a dream budget फिलहाल तो इस बजट ने हमें थोड़ी खुशी और बहुत ज्यादा गम दिया है। Sir, the whole budgetary system today has become unviable. The future generations will end up paying heavily for this. The country today needs a vision and the country needs a blueprint for progress. This needs to be communicated to the people and they need to be taken in confidence. India is a country that proudly rises and responds bravely to challenges. We did so in 1991. People are willing to pay a lean and efficient Government that delivers. The hon. Prime Minister earlier this year had announced a year of implementation. The key word here is delivery and the key word here is implementation. The key word here is execution. Words that seem to ring hollow with the present Government. I, now, end in my late father’s words that still ring through. He said: As the noted economist, Amartya Sen said : SHRI TRILOCHAN KANUNGO ( JAGATSINGHPUR ): Mr. Chairman, Sir, this preceding speech which is very good from a very young man leads me to the hope and the optimism that there is bright light at the end of the tunnel. Now, let me come to my points. Sir, I shall only confine myself to a singular aspect of the Budget. The Budget has two sides. I do not say that it has two faces but two sides. One is the Annual Financial Statement which is the constitutional document and the other one is the speech of the hon. Finance Minister. Part `A’ of his speech comprises of policy statement or the assurances and Part `B’ explains us how far the arithmetic and figures in the Annual Financial Statement are credible. Sir, the hon. Finance Minister Shri Yashwant Sinha has presented his fifth Budget consecutively here in this House; perhaps one short of Dr. Manmohan Singh. Dr. Manmohan Singh had presented six Budgets consecutively in this House. I do not want to go back to the past and shall confine myself to the period of Shri Yashwant Sinha only. One aspect which disturbs me very much, with which not only I am very much concerned but also the whole House and the whole articulate section of the country is concerned and the Hon. Finance Minister himself is no less concerned, is the deficits in the Budget. Economists all over the world have been saying that generation of continuous deficits impairs growth and is rather hostile to growth. If a nation continuously goes with revenue deficits, it creates an atmosphere which is hostile to growth. That is known everywhere. Last year, when the Finance Minister presented the Budget, it was acclaimed as one of the best Budgets. Nine out of ten persons, perhaps with the lone exception of Shri Sitaram Yechury, have approbated it. In 1986, as far as I remember, Shri V.P. Singh had presented a Budget which was acclaimed as the best Budget by Shri Nani Palkiwala and many others also. Then came the dream Budget of Shri P. Chidambaram and the last one to have got such an acclaim was the Budget presented by Shri Yashwant Sinha last year. These Budgets have been praised by everybody in this country. But, unfortunately the last year’s Budget ended in a fiasco. I give you only the deficit figures. You shall see the deficits are growing year after year. Every year in the last five years the deficit has been increasing and the gap between the BE and RE has been widening. In actual terms the deficit is much higher than the budgeted estimate. I would like to place before this House some figures. In 1998-99 the revenue deficit in the BE was projected to be Rs.48,068 crore, which accounted for 2.7 per cent of the GDP. In actual terms it became Rs.66,975 crore in the RE, which accounted for 3.8 per cent of the GDP. In 1999-2000 in the BE the revenue deficit was Rs.54,147 crore and actually it became Rs.67,596 crore which was 3.5 per cent of the GDP. In 2000-01 Rs.77,424 crore was the budgeted revenue deficit, which became Rs.85,234 crore at the RE stage, accounting for 4.1 per cent of the GDP. In 2001-02, the revenue deficit in the BE was Rs.78,821 crore and at the RE stage it went up to Rs.91,733 crore and nobody knows what will be the actual. In 2002-03 in the BE the revenue deficit is projected at Rs.95,377 crore. My point is simple. I have got no concern with the fiscal deficit. The moment you contain revenue deficit, the moment it becomes zero, fiscal deficit will not be a burden so long as it is investment in productive works. It generates more and more wealth. Fiscal deficit means the total borrowing of the Government in the year. I do not bother about that. I bother about the revenue deficit about which the Finance Minister categorically told in paragraph 76 of Part `A’ in his Budget speech last year. In paragraph 77, again he told: If during the last five years, the revenue deficit could not be decreased by one rupee, then how can the assurance that within five years to come, the revenue deficit would be nil? A deficit of Rs. 97,000 crore would become nil! That is the main question before the Finance Minister to answer. Unless and until revenue deficit has been contained, I tell you that all these slogans, promises and policy formulations that he read out in Part ‘A’ of his speech have absolutely no relevance. Therefore, the House has the right to know what exactly the Finance Ministry is planning to do. I do not want to use the words ‘that he has failed’. But he has not achieved anything. He has not done anything to contain the revenue deficit, let alone achieving something. He has not achieved anything in containing the revenue deficit, fiscal deficit and primary deficit. This is a matter of serious concern and the Finance Minister ought to remember and react on this. I am aware that it is easier said than done. But it has to be done. It may be difficult but not impossible. My request is not only to the Finance Minister himself but to the whole Government, the whole House and all the political parties also. The leaders should sit together and find out a way as to how within five years of time this revenue deficit of the Budget could be contained so that a right planning for the future can be made. Unless that is being done, in concrete terms, all these pronouncements and policy formulations will become futile. I want to tell one interesting thing to you. A lot of things have been told about agriculture. Some are telling that it is an agriculture-oriented Budget. So far as agricultural workers are concerned, in the Economic Survey of 2000-01, there is a paragraph on Unskilled Agricultural Labourers. There was also a Table in the Economic Survey up to 2000-2001 such practice was there . The matter was raised in one of the meetings of the Consultative Committee of the Ministry of Finance as to why the agricultural labourer is being called unskilled labourers. Which of the agricultural labourers are unskilled? Please define them. Surprisingly this year, 2001-02, the Economic Survey does not contain that paragraph at all. Absolutely, there is no mention of unskilled agricultural labourers in it The Table was removed. This has happened. This has been removed completely from the Economic Survey. I do not want to go into further details. I can now come back to receipt losses for which States have also lost this year from statutory devolution of taxes. All States have lost, but poorer States lost more. Due to loss of tax revenue, Orissa alone is losing Rs. 600 crore during 2001-2002. How can the backward States manage their heavy burden of responsibilities? Time and again, we have been demanding and we have been pressing – if this is done, the State to which Shri Yashwant Sinha belongs to will also be a beneficiary – for revision of coal royalty. This has not been revised for the last five years. The backward State of Orissa alone has lost Rs. 1200 crore on that account. Other States are also losing, except West Bengal. Had West Bengal been deprived of that, it could have been revised long back. I am telling you this with a heavy heart that as a guardian, as a level player, the Parliament and the Central Government should see to it that backward States come up. They are not getting their rational, reasonable, and legitimate claims. The States of Orissa, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh are suffering from backwardness. You will be surprised to know that in Orissa alone 120 per cent of their own revenue is spent on loan repayment and interest payment every year. How can it manage? The Central Government has a role. Not only that, the Central Government has a responsibility for this. As you know, articles 293 and 294 have given a responsibility to the Centre. The State cannot borrow even a rupee without the permission of the Centre. In the plan allocation the Centre’s assistance is 70 per cent by way of loan. Since they are given at high interest rates, the States are suffering, particularly the States that have very low revenue base. The poor and backward States are suffering. This is where the Central Government has failed. It has failed to play the level playing role. I do not want to go further. … (Interruptions) As our Party belongs to NDA, we have to support this Budget. We will support the Budget. The Opposition has to support the Budget, because the Budget is to be passed. The difficulties have not been removed. The elements which ought to have been removed, have not been removed; and the elements which should have been looked into have not been looked into. I am particularly concerned with deficits. Unless and until, the revenue deficit is brought back to zero level, the situation will not improve. The fiscal deficit could be more. There could be more global borrowing. Unless this is done, the country will not progress and the country will not prosper. We may use high sounding words, but it would not do any good to this country. SHRI H.D. DEVE GOWDA ( KANAKPURA ): Mr. Chairman, Sir, at the outset, I would say that I would like to concentrate only on agriculture. I know the time limitation. But I would like to mention about the fiscal performance in only one word. The hon. Finance Minister himself, while addressing the FICCI, had shown his anger. Now, I am not going to take the Economic Survey for the year 2001-02, which has been placed on the Table of the House, to quote the figures that have been printed in it. Mr. Finance Minister, on 1st March, if I am correct, while addressing the FICCI, you have expressed your dissatisfaction about the performance of the industrial sector. You said that even though you give a tax concession of about Rs.16,000 crore, the industry is unable to yield the necessary revenue to the Government, and the total revenue loss is about Rs.20,000 crore compared to the target you have fixed. That is your own expression about the performance on the fiscal side. I do not want to deliberate on this issue any further. I am straightaway coming to the agricultural sector. Mr. Finance Minister, you tried to do something to help the farmers. I have gone through it very carefully. You have announced several benefits according to your Budget proposals. You have indicated what you intend to do for the year 2002-03. I would like to know whether all these things are going to help the farmers and the rural economy. Rural development and agriculture go side by side. There is no difference about it. Some of the figures that have been given by the Government or the Ministry concerned, which is in charge of Rural Development, vindicate the position. It has been said that two lakh villages do not have access to potable water. The figures are your own figures. It has further been said that 90 per cent of the rural households do not have proper sanitation facilities and 40 per cent villages do not have school buildings. These are the figures given by the Ministry of Rural Development. I have gone through the speeches made by several Finance Ministers. I do not want to blame you alone for all the problems the country is facing today. At the same time, I do not want to say that the country has not progressed. In the last 53 years, the country has made some progress. But that progress has not been evenly distributed. There are certain economists who say that growth should be evenly distributed and there should be a consensus in this regard. The point is that the gap between the rural and the urban people has widened. There is some growth in the last 53 years compared to the pre-Independence era. We have made some progress. We cannot say that we have not done anything. Whether it is the Congress regime or non-Congress regime, we did make some progress. We also made certain mistakes. I mean, the policy-makers, the planners and the economists have made certain mistakes. There are certain genuine mistakes which we have committed. According to the Plan, we might not have derived the results. The buffer-stock is more than 55 or 58 million tonnes. The food production last year was about 210 million tonnes. What is the situation prevailing in the rural areas even then? I do not want to comment on what our young friend from Orissa has mentioned in his speech. Why people are dying in hunger in Orissa? It has been reported in the Press, and the same was raised in this House, though I was not here. Why farmers are committing suicide when there is mass food production and buffer-stock at our disposal? This matter is the concern of the entire House. It is not a question of this party or that party. Sixty-five per cent of the total workforce comes from agriculture. Whatever we may talk about the industrial sector, service sector, manufacturing sector, but nobody can deny that the agricultural sector is a sector which is going to provide more than 65 per cent of the work to the rural masses. On all fronts, whether it is plantation crop or cash crop or traditional crop, the farmers today are not getting the remunerative price. If I say something good about your decision, that does not mean I am wholeheartedly supporting some of the decisions made by this Government. You have taken a decision to remove the restriction on transporting the agricultural produce from one State to another State freely. Taking into consideration the needs of the farmers, you have taken this decision. This is one of the areas where I should say that the Government has done its best. The other thing is that this year you have increased the allocation to the Accelerated Irrigation Benefit Programme by Rs.800 crore, that is, from Rs.2,000 crore to Rs.2,800 crore. There is an increase of about Rs.91 crore for the Agriculture Extension and Research Scheme. In the case of NABARD, there is an increase of about Rs.500 crore to strengthen its financial activities. I do not want to oppose the idea of giving certain concessions to the industrial sector. I would just like to quote for the benefit of this House this: You have said this, according to the Press report. Further: THE MINISTER OF FINANCE (SHRI YASHWANT SINHA): You please read the next line from my Budget speech. You would find what I have done for farmers. SHRI H.D. DEVE GOWDA : I am coming to that. This has been announced in 1998. What you have said is that a one-time settlement scheme for small loan accounts with outstanding principal up to Rs.25,000 as on 31st March, 1998 is already in operation for the non-agricultural sector. But this year, you said that up to Rs.50,000, the RBI is going to announce. That is the Budget proposal. My primary concern is that today farmers are committing suicide not because of the shortfall in production but because the loaning process is not according to their expectation. You have set a target of extending credit facilities to the farmers to the tune of Rs.62,000. Would you kindly give the break-up figures for this? Have the cooperative banks, commercial banks and the rural banks reached the target? I have read that your target is Rs.62,000 crore. But has it actually gone to the farmers? Let me know as to what are the actual disbursement details. You have set a target of issuing 2.1 crore Kisan Credit Cards this year. Would you give the break-up of this? How many KisanCredit Cards were issued by the nationalised banks, rural banks, commercial banks and the cooperative banks? Please enlighten me because I was not able to get those figures. Wherever I go, I would not hesitate to tell that I come from farmers’ community. We do not belong to any higher strata of society. I am particularly concerned about those people who are suffering in the villages. I rose to the highest level, the Prime Minister of this country from an ordinary panchayat member. Let us go to any village – not only to Kalahandi district where from our hon. friend who has just made an eloquent speech comes - in Orissa State of our country and see the conditions there. Let us to go his home State and see the condition of villages in some of the districts there. I have seen them with my own eyes. We do not need the figures of National Sample Survey Organisation or Lakadawala Committee Report to defend our argument. Let this House constitute a Committee and let that Committee visit a few villages in every State of our country and see the conditions prevailing there. We might have provided one kuchcha road, not an all-weather road, a school building, electricity connection and water supply to our villages, but we have to see whether the water supply will be provided for all the 12 months of the year, even when the ground water level goes down during the drought season. Let us go to any village in our country and see the housing conditions there. Sir, whatever may be our achievement, I am ashamed to say that our rural areas are still in a very pathetic condition. I am not going to make a comment that this Government is only responsible for this since they are in power for the last four years. Let all of us sitting here – whether we are from the Bharatiya Janata Party or the Congress Party or ‘X’ party or ‘Y’ party – make an introspection and realise the miserable conditions prevailing in our villages. We should also see the luxury that we are seeing in the urban areas. I would like to make an appeal to the Finance Minister that we must collectively try to find a way out for this. We should not be under the impression that there is no money in this country. Money is available; it is concentrated in the hands of a few people, but we are unable to touch them. We are scared to touch them. Yesterday, Shri Mani Shankar Aiyar mentioned the names of four or five industrial houses. I am not going to say that only the industrial houses have exploited the entire wealth of the nation. Sir, I am not an economist. But during the short tenure of 10 months when I was the Prime Minister, I told the Finance Minister that we should introduce the Voluntary Disclosure Scheme. He did not agree with me and said that the Government was not able to get even Rs. 200 crore in the past when such a scheme was announced during the tenure of Shrimati Indira Gandhi. He said that the Government could get only about Rs. 780 crore or so and that the Government had to take the blame from tax-payers. So, he asked me as to we should again incur such a displeasure from the tax-payers. I have persuaded the Finance Minister by saying that, after the introduction of economic reforms, a lot of black money has accrued in the hands of so many people and so, we should try that scheme once again. Then he requested me to talk to our friends from Left Parties. When I talked to the former Chief Minister of West Bengal Shri Jyoti Basu, - I must be fair to him – he readily agreed to go ahead with the scheme. 16.00 hrs. 

Everybody doubted that there would not be much revenue in that. An amount of Rs. 33,000 crore was declared. You have got a revenue of Rs. 10,800 crore. There is no need to go with a begging bowl to the foreign investors with all our concessions to appease them. I do not think this country is poor. It is roaring with wealth. Our taxation system is not working in the direction in which they have expected. It is for them to think over how they should generate the resources. I can say it in my own way – even though I am not an economist – how the resources can be generated, provided the House agrees. I can understand how problematic it would be to arrive at a decision in a coalition Government. It is not so easy. We can easily criticise in this type of political atmosphere. It is not the BJP alone that is responsible. Everybody has contributed to the end of one-party rule. We have all contributed towards that whether ‘x’, ‘y’ or ‘z’. There is no need to have a debate on this issue. In a coalition, unless there is a conscientious decision for taking certain radical steps, it is very difficult to generate the resources or to find out the area where we can improve the position of our resources. Disinvestment is not your theory. It is not your responsibility. The previous Government introduced the economic reforms. I was a Member sitting in that corner during those days. My friend, Dr. Manmohan Singh the Minister of Finance, is here. He announced certain decisions in this very House. In my opinion, at that time, it was going to hurt the farmers. I sat on dharna for the first time in my life. I protested. Nobody in the House supported me. This is going to damage the agriculture sector. Do not make a mistake because the World Bank is putting pressure on us. The IMF is putting forward all types of conditions. I had no other option. I am not going to say that Shri Manmohan Singh is dishonest. He is one of the honest, well-read and known economists. I am not going to dispute all those issues. But my concern was that he had no knowledge of the rural masses. He has no knowledge how the farmers - the villagers - even today are not having the basic facilities. We feel ashamed when you go for votes. We would beg votes with folded hands. Then, we would forget it. We discuss here about the industrial growth, the service sector, and the manufacturing sector. That is going to be the remedy for all the problems that are prevailing today. MR. CHAIRMAN : Please conclude. You have taken 25 minutes. SHRI H.D. DEVE GOWDA : That is why I am going to confine myself to agriculture. I do not want to deal with other issues. Some people say that I am always pro-agriculturists. We cannot forget them. … (Interruptions) I am a farmer. I am not going to be ashamed myself while saying that I am a farmer. Even now, I am a farmer. … (Interruptions) SHRI C.P. RADHAKRISHNAN ( COIMBATORE ): Everybody is proud of farmers. … (Interruptions) SHRI H.D. DEVE GOWDA : Then, everybody should forget the party lines. We should try to take decisions collectively. I am willing to extend my support to the Government if it comes forward with the relief measures. Sir, on the question of disinvestment, I am not going to question now, which route the Government is going to follow. In a short span of two-three minutes I can elaborate. They have taken a decision, even though the economic reforms were there. We have classified nine public sector undertakings as Navratnas during our period. Let us not disinvest. Where is the need for that? Shri Maran was there at that time, as Industries Minister. All right, as the Prime Minister said, the loss making public sector undertakings alone cannot attract the investors or the multi-nationals or whatever the argument the Prime Minister gives, I am not going to question that. But in a situation like this, everybody attacks the Government"s policy about the disinvestment. The land value itself in some of the ITDC hotels is being questioned. I can give the facts and figures prevailing in the market and how these ITDC hotels were being sold. A property worth Rs.10 crore is sold for Rs.2 crore. Who is the evaluator? What is the system that they want to follow? Why not there is a transparency in this? Why you people unnecessarily take blame? If anybody talks corruption, you can talk about corruption from 1952, as I told in this very House, during V.K. Krishna Menon"s time, the jeep scam and I quoted it there from that seat. I do not want to attribute motives. But the issue is why can it not be transparent? Let us discuss the disinvestment policy in this House because the Supreme Court has also upheld the BALCO case. I do not want to question the decision of the Supreme Court, because based on the Government"s policy decision they might have taken a decision. But let us rethink about this issue. We are not getting the real value of the public sector undertakings that we are going to disinvest. Sir, one more problem is about the plantation crops. Mr. Chairman Sir, you also come from a State where coffee and tea is grown. Today, more than 80 per cent of coffee is exported by our country. They have imposed customs duty. I would like to know why do we want to import coffee when we are exporting more than 80 per cent. In what way it is going to benefit the coffee growers. They have to bail them out from the present crisis; about Rs. 900 crore is the loan component and every year they have to pay Rs.130 crore as interest. More than 75 per cent of the small coffee growers, having one hectare, two hectares or three hectares of land, who come under that. I personally refer this case to the hon. Minister that when he gives his reply, please announce certain relief to these coffee growers. I want a categorical assurance from the hon. Minister as to how he is going to bail out the farmers. The hon. Minister has announced amendment to Milk and Milk Products Control Order and he has now opened it up. Is it going to help the milk producers? This is the one area in which Dr. Kurien has put in all his efforts. We call him the father of milk movement. Once you allow the private sector to operate in this, that movement will be affected. During my period, from small scale sector I took away the ice-cream manufacturing and gave it to the cooperative sector. Now they have taken a decision. My own fear is this sector is going to suffer in future. When you allow the private people or the multinationals to operate in a big way, this is going to be a major decision of this Government, which is ultimately not going to help the milk producers. Sir, we are importing about 4000 tonnes to 5000 tonnes of butter oil at Chennai Harbour. They are getting it at the rate of Rs.75 per litre. Butter is being sold at the rate of Rs.115 or so per kg. They are selling the adulterated ghee at the rate of Rs.105 per kg. Is it not going to adversely affect the milk-producers? The hon. Minister has to think over it. I want a categorical assurance from the hon. Minister as to how he is going to bail out the farmers. Removing the restrictions alone is not going to help, again the middlemen will play a major role. The diversification of agriculture is not going to bring back the farmers to overcome the problem. Dr. Balram Jakhar, the then Agriculture Minister, sitting there announced, in 1992 the diversification of agriculture, "if one per cent food production is going to increase, there is a glut in the market". Because of paucity of time, I do not want to argue more, but I tell you that today the worst hit is the agricultural sector. I would urge the hon. Minister not to allow them to die, commit suicide. Show me one industrialist who has committed suicide! 

They want to bail out IDBI, they want to bail out ICICI, they are giving so much of benefits to these people. Sir, I would dwell on one more point and that is about kerosene. During my period, we were also facing the same problem, about Rs. 18000 crore of oil deficit. When the matter came before me, I said, except kerosene, I am ready to accept the proposal made by the Department. I said I am not going to increase even a paisa on kerosene. At that time, the cost of crude oil per barrel was 28 dollars. When this Government came to power, it might have gone up to 32 dollars or 34 dollars. Now, it has again crashed to 18 dollars or 19 dollars. When the cost of crude oil has come down by 50 per cent? They want to reduce the cooking gas rate. Yesterday, our Telugu Desam friends were telling that 40 lakh people have benefited by the scheme which has been launched by Shri Chandrababu Naidu and they decided to pressurise the Government for this. Maybe they will put some pressure on the hon. Finance Minister! But who is going to lobby for the kerosene users. They are all small people living in the huts. Again, the cost of kerosene has been increased by 75 paise or something like that. Petrol is not used by the hut dwellers but kerosene is used by them. So, I would urge upon the hon. Finance Minister to reconsider this increase in cost of kerosene. Again, what little they have given for the agricultural sector, it has been taken away by increase in the cost of fertilizer. On the one hand they have given some benefit and on the other hand they have taken away that benefit. So, I would urge upon the hon. Finance Minister to reconsider that surcharge on fertilizer. The price of kerosene has to be brought down and with regard to loans what benefits have been given to the industrial sector as a non-agricultural sector, the same benefits should be given to the agricultural sector, from 20 years to 50 years, it can be rolled back. I would request the hon. Finance Minister to give the same benefit to them. Please give the same benefit to them. As one time concession, now, through Reserve Bank, you assured the House up to Rs. 50,000. Are you going to see that you implement it. If you implement it, it is well and good and I will compliment you. I hope that the hon. Finance Minister would look into some of these issues which I have raised and see that some remedial measures are taken to bail out the farmers and the suffering rural masses in this country. KUMARI MAMATA BANERJEE ( CALCUTTA SOUTH ): Mr. Chairman, Sir, thank you for giving me this opportunity to speak. I am waiting from yesterday to speak on the General Budget. Sir, if I totally support this Budget, then my heart will beat. If I oppose this Budget, then also somebody can say, "You are in NDA and you are saying something." I feel that I should say the truth. There is no harm in making observations or comments or giving opinions, where people may gain from them. Before speaking anything on the Budget, I would like to tell the hon. Finance Minister that I am not speaking against him personally or against any individual. I would like to quote Rabindranath Tagore: "Give me the strength never to disown the poor or to bend my knees before insolent might." I am not convinced about this Budget when there is confusion among us also as to whether it is a positive or a negative Budget and I will say that it is directionless. I know the financial position of the Government. The Government is passing through a very critical time. Not only our country but also several countries like Pakistan, Bangladesh and other countries are facing the financial crisis. India cannot say what the dictator country can openly say about the financial emergency. India is a democratic country. Though our financial position is not only so bad today yet we are also facing this situation since long. But, Sir, in the name of reforms, the Government cannot take it for granted that only the poor class, the middle class and the common people would suffer. That would not solve the problem. We have talked about the statistics in regard to the financial situation and the financial condition. Every hon. Member has given his opinion. What we feel today is that in the broadest sense, if there is a will, there is a way. The main will of us is lacking today. If there is no political will and if there is no political reform, this country cannot go for economic reform because the system, the option, the thinking and the vision have to be changed. Secondly, I would request this House through you, Sir, that in the political, system, in the electoral system, in the administrative system and in the judicial system, reform is very much needed. We are a poor country but we are a developing country. Is it not a fact that every year in the name of election we spend a lot of money? I would request the hon. Finance Minister to think about the electoral reform, keep some money for State-funding and go straightaway for State-funding of the election so that the big houses and the political parties cannot go for black-money. When you are going to adjust that black-money, then the poor people and the common people are going to suffer because they take this money from them. That is why, I think, both political will and political reforms are needed. What I have seen in this Budget from the common people’s point of view is this. Due to increase in the prices of kerosene, domestic gas and fertilizer, the service class, the retired people, the unemployed youths and the small-scale industries are the victims. But this country should not forget that we are having 100 crores of people in this country. We should not sacrifice ourselves to satisfy only 100 individuals. That is why, my request would be that you only concentrate on my few suggestions. Regarding domestic gas, yes, the Government has reduced the price by Rs.20. Since the last 10 years, there has been an increase of 400 per cent in the prices of domestic gas. It is not a fact that only the urban rich people use domestic gas. It is used by everybody in this country, especially, the urban, semi-urban and even the rural area people. There are so many rural villages where, of course, there is development. They are also using this gas. You cannot touch the kitchen. If you touch the kitchen, that will be very quisling. That is why, I would request the Finance Minister to reconsider this. You have reduced it by Rs.20. That is okay but it is not enough. Earlier also it had been increased. So, it should be reduced fully. It would be our request. Secondly, let me come to kerosene oil. I heard some friends saying this and I am really shocked to learn that the poor people do not use the kerosene oil because it is adulterated and all these things. I am surprised to know this. If there is an adulteration, who is responsible for this? The Government machinery is responsible for this. It is not the poor people. You cannot increase the price of kerosene oil. Somebody is saying people do not use kerosene oil. Yes, it has been used by the common people, the poor and the poorest of the poor in this country. How do we reduce the price of foreign liquor? How do we increase the price of fertilizer, kerosene oil and domestic gas? I am really surprised. You increase the price of foreign liquor more and more. Who can purchase foreign liquor? Those who have the capacity to purchase foreign liquor can give more money. But the poor people cannot purchase it by giving Rs.1.50 more per every litre, which has been increased in kerosene oil. In the case of domestic gas, there has been an increase of Rs.20. Regarding fertilizer, I congratulate the Finance Minister when he said that this is a farmers Budget. Sixty per cent of our people are agricultural people. Now you increase the fertilizer price. They are feeding you. You are biased towards them. Do not do it. You have increased the prices of essential commodities through freight rate in the Railway Budget also. I do not want to say about that. My Party people will speak. All the essential commodities have been touched. Here also, essential commodities like fertilizer, domestic gas and kerosene oil have been touched. Where will the common people go? I may be wrong because I am not an economist. I do not know about the ABC of economy. But, from the grass-root, what we feel is that there are so many taxes. The Central Government puts taxes. Of course, the people have to pay the taxes to the Central Government. The State Government puts tax. Municipality puts tax, and corporation is putting another tax. How many times a single individual has to pay tax? There must be some uniform policy for that. I would request the Finance Minister to see that there must be some uniform policy on tax reforms. Some States are imposing sales tax on essential commodities also. So, I would request the hon. Minister of Finance to request the State Governments to reconsider the tax on essential commodities because it hits the common people. The lowering of interest rates on savings and investments is most unfortunate, especially in the case of small saving instruments. There are many people who take voluntary retirement under the VRS. You would appreciate that in our country, the retired people, housewives, teachers and even rickshaw pullers invest their money in fixed deposits, NSCs, UTI or in such other small saving instruments. Last time, the interest rate was reduced by 1.5 per cent. This time, it has been reduced by 0.5 per cent. For crores of people, after retirement, this is their only source of money for giving their children. It is with this money that they educate their children and also carry on their livelihood. So, I would request the hon. Minister of Finance to give a re-thought and not to reduce the interest rates on small saving instruments. When people invest their money in Government institutions, we should encourage them more and more to invest in Government organisations. It is unfortunate that only the common people have to suffer when there are many people who have black money. On the one side, we are going in for disinvestment in all our public sector undertakings. At the same time, can you just place a White Paper in the House listing out the people who have taken money from banks and financial institutions and have not returned their loans till date? They are also getting fresh loans. Who are defaulters? I think, this is not proper. … (Interruptions) SHRI AJOY CHAKRABORTY : We agree with her. … (Interruptions) KUMARI MAMATA BANERJEE : They are the defaulters and they are the captains of big industrial houses. So please produce the list of these defaulters. … (Interruptions) SHRI C.P. RADHAKRISHNAN : If you agree with her, the headache of West Bengal is over. SHRI AJOY CHAKRABORTY : She is pleading our case very efficiently. … (Interruptions) KUMARI MAMATA BANERJEE : I am raising the views of the common people. I think, everybody would support me because these are not my views but whatever I am speaking are the views of the common people. … (Interruptions) Only to satisfy blacklisted industrialists and big industrial houses, one hundred crores of people of this country are made to suffer. Why is it that there is more taxation for the common people? Why is it that there is not much taxation for the blacklisted industrialists? I would like to know whether the Government is going to announce the list of defaulters, specially the business houses who are the captains of the big business houses. … (Interruptions) I will not change my side. My side is all right for me and it suits us. Please let me say what I want to say. I would request you not to disturb me. SHRI AJOY CHAKRABORTY : We are only encouraging you. We are not disturbing you but are supporting you. SHRI C.P. RADHAKRISHNAN : That is why, she is afraid. KUMARI MAMATA BANERJEE : They do not allow me to speak, when I am speaking. You are going to waste my time by disturbing me. Thank you very much. Let us see what the blacklisted industrialists do when they open an industry. They insure the company. The next day, they close the company down. They take a loan from the SBI, then from the UTI, sometimes from IRBI, IDBI or the RBI and such other financial institutions. These people, who are the defaulters, they are doing crimes . It is a crime to spoil the country’s money but there is no law to take action against these culprits. I am sorry to say that they want to adjust this money to reduce the tax on foreign liquor to give them more money. They have not given any attention to the small- scale industry. Small-scale industry is supposed to be generating employment through job-oriented programmes. In our country, there are more than three crore registered unemployed youths. I have been saying from the beginning that there must be a Government programme ‘Berozgari hatao’. I appeal to the Government, through you, Sir, that a Special Session must be convened to discuss the matter of unemployed youths and how to sort out the problem of unemployment - not for POTO but for unemployment problem – because it is the main problem in this country. Regarding the five per cent surcharge, why should it be for all? They should know that in our country, poor people are there, people below the poverty line are there, common income-tax payers are there, common employees are there, and, at the same time, wealthy people are also there. I am not going to say the lease about those who are wealthy people. Sometimes you do dieting for health. Why do you not do dieting for austerity in economy? Observe austerity first. Charity begins at home. From the Government side, what steps have they taken to save money through austerity measures? In the name of Government programmes, how much money does the Central Government spend on advertisements? I am not talking only about the Central Government, I am talking about the State Governments also. Their fund management is so poor that the debt rate is going up too high. In my State, I know that there are accumulated debts to the tune of about Rs.62,000 crore. If they are to go on like this in this country, then who will pay this debt? I do not know what will be the situation in this country. Regarding surcharge, my request would be that there must be some policy. It is not that we are saying it only today; on 7th of March, for record, we have given a letter to the hon. Prime Minister to reconsider this, and I am quoting from that. We have said that for security, every citizen of this country has the responsibility to help the motherland. Yes, you impose one per cent surcharge on every taxpayer, but impose ten per cent surcharge on big business houses, on the corporate sector. There must be some policy. There must be some standard. There are so many people living below the poverty line in this country. That is why we say that you help the people living below the poverty line. Somebody was saying that no salaried class person is earning less than Rs.10,000. Yes, they are earning. You have increased domestic gas prices by 400 per cent over the years, but tell me whether their earning also has been increased like that? Do you want them to lead their life honestly or do you want them to indulge in cheating or corruption? Are we going to help the common people of this country or are we going to help only those who do not matter? I am making a request with regard to the fertiliser price, with regard to the kerosene price, with regard to the domestic gas price and also with regard to the postal rates. The postal rates have gone up too much. Common people cannot have access to Internet or to mobile phones or to cellular phones. They use only postcards and envelopes, and their rates have also been hiked. Why? I would request the hon. Minister to think about this matter seriously so that the common people are not affected. They have reduced the tax on expensive hotels. I am making one suggestion. Those who are able to stay in hotels, let them pay more tax. The common people do not stay in hotels. You impose more tax on them. I know you are helping the tourism industry. Set up youth hostels to help the Tourism Department. There is no problem in that. But if you reduce the hotel tax, I do not think this will help the country. Sir, the Federation of Indian Publishers have given me a letter saying that the tax is being increased in regard to book publishing industry, sometimes from Rs. 200 to Rs. 1,600. I submit that books are knowledge and they are the foundation of knowledge. I would request you that you should not increase tax on the books being published. Our next request to you is regarding public sector disinvestment. The Government is planning for disinvestment of every public sector unit. Of course, I know that there are some problems. We appreciate the modernisation plan and the comprehensive plan of action. But it does not mean that every public sector unit has to be closed down. You think of IISCO. It is the pride of our country. Its modernisation programme is pending since long. Yesterday one hon. Member from Tamil Nadu was speaking about Tuticorin. I support that. There are some projects which are pending since long. There is no action in such cases. In my State, there are maximum number of public sector units existing. There are units like NTC, NJMC, several jute mills, Jessop, Burn Standard, Braithweight, MAMC, Cycle Corporation, Tyre Corporation, Bengal Ammunition etc. There are so many industries. You are closing down everything. Somebody said the U.S. had not given concession to the taxpayers but they take care of social security. We have to think from our point of view. Our country is not the United States or Pakistan. Our country is India. India will fight for India. That is why our request to the hon. Minister of Finance would be to please reconsider the matter and do something. On the one side there is unemployment and on the other side the common people are going to be victimised. You are saying about VRS also and that everybody wants it. No, it is not the case. They are compelled to take VRS. They are not willing to take VRS. What do we do? The unfortunate part of this country is that you are pressurising the workers to take VRS but you are not pressurising the politicians to take PRS ‘Political Retirement Scheme’. You are only interested in VRS for workers. If the people are ousted, then for whom will this Government work? In a democracy Government means it is a Government for the people, of the people and by the people. But, if the Government pressurises the common people, the middle class people, the poorest of the poor people, what then would be the definition of the Government? That is why our request to the hon. Minister of Finance is that he should not take this personally but I would give him the views of the common people and he may reconsider this proposal. This proposal now hits the common people. Our BJP friends know it. They also sometimes raise these issues. Our Allies in the Coalition also know it who raise these issues and even Opposition Parties also know it. If we can do something conscientiously at least for the poor, I think the country will be benefited and will be grateful to you. Otherwise it will be very difficult. MR. CHAIRMAN : Madam, the time allotted to your Party is 12 minutes. I have given you 10 more minutes. Please conclude. KUMARI MAMATA BANERJEE : I know it. I am sorry to say that in this House somebody speaks for two hours and there is no restriction. Only when we speak for the people, then there is a restriction. I am sorry to say this. We will speak for the people and we will continue to speak for the people. MR. CHAIRMAN : Yes, please speak for the people. KUMARI MAMATA BANERJEE : Sir, what is my fault? I am not getting an opportunity to speak as an Ally of NDA. I am getting an opportunity to speak from my Party’s time. You cannot curtail it. When you curtail my time, please see that though my Party is a small one, kindly do not forget that we represent one crore and 42 lakh people of this country. Please do not forget that. Our Party may be a small Party. MR. CHAIRMAN : In the BAC meeting it was decided to give 12 minutes to your Party. I have given you ten more minutes. You please speak for the people. KUMARI MAMATA BANERJEE : Thank you, Sir. I abide by the Chair. MR. CHAIRMAN : I only reminded you. You speak for the people. KUMARI MAMATA BANERJEE : No, Sir. I will abide by the Chair and conclude my speech. But I want to say that you can stop me here but you cannot stop me outside. SHRI K. MALAISAMY ( RAMANATHAPURAM ): Thank you, Sir for giving me this opportunity. Fully conscious of the time constraint, let me make my presentation as quickly as possible and as briefly as possible. Hence this should mean that I should not be interrupted often. But I am very much sure that this Chairman will be very considerate when I make my presentation which are relevant, which are important and which are most useful. Sir, yesterday and today, we had enough from the Treasury Benches as well as from the Opposition. There were highlights on the one side. The ills and evils and the failures highlighted by the Opposition side were stoutly countered by pat and praise from the NDA side. Now, let me straightaway ask the basic criterion in the presentation of the Budget. I must be explained whether the definition of the Budget either from the modern angle or from the conventional angle has been well- founded and whether the budgetary principles have been complied with. I have got my own doubt. A Budget should be balanced; a Budget should match; and the income and expenditure should be almost equal. One should not be excess or short over the other. This is the first basic principle. The second principle is that the estimates that they are making should be realistic, exact and rational. The third principle is that there should be a target and there should be an achievement. There should be a promise and there should be a performance. Kindly bear with me. I will refer to certain details and figures. Our hon. Finance Minister has got the greatest credit of presenting five Budgets, including the current one. In the first Budget i.e. in his Interim Budget, the promise given was that the bottlenecks in the infrastructure sector would be removed. Then, what is the performance? The bottlenecks still remain. Then, the second promise given on that year is to revitalise the capital market and improve the fiscal situation. Fiscal situation has worsened. Then, we will come to the next Budget. The promise given is that the Industrial Development (Regulation) Act, IDRI will be amended so that the primary focus is shifted to the development of industry. This is yet to be done. That is the performance. Again, the promise given is to amend the Recovery of Debts due to the Banks and the Financial Institutions Act, to strengthen its provisions. It is yet to be done. Then, I come to the third Budget. The promise given is to strengthen the India’s role in the world economy through the rapid growth of export and higher foreign investment. Both are not realised. Then, the promise given is to establish the credit framework and fiscal discipline without which other elements of India’s strategy could fail. The achievement is that the fiscal mess remains. They aimed at fiscal deficit of 5.1 per cent, but unfortunately, it has increased to 5.7 per cent. That was the achievement. Now, I come to the last Budget. The fiscal deficit they aimed at was 4.7 per cent, but it has gone up to 5.7 per cent. So, the achievement was like that. Then, I come to the promise given to amend the Industrial Disputes Act and Contract of Labour Act, for removing the external rigidity for which the performance is yet to be seen. The other promise given is of introducing a legislation to facilitate foreclosure and enforcement of the securities in the case of default. This is, again, yet to happen. What I am trying to say here is that what all promised earlier, have not been achieved. From the way in which I have narrated, it is clear that nothing has been obtained. Kumari Mamata Banerjee talked about political will. There could have been a political will, but unfortunately, there is no skill to execute that political will. From the earlier examples of the big gap between promise and performance, I have got the greatest doubt whether what has been stated in the present Budget could be obtained at all. My doubt is all the more aggravated for the simple reason that the country as a whole and the States in particular are passing through the greatest financial crisis. In that situation, in that process ,it may be said that the rate of economic growth has fallen and the fiscal deficit has gone up in spite of having huge foreign exchange reserves, in spite of having a huge stock of foodgrains and the privatisation process is being very much transparent. Despite all these things, your fiscal deficit is going up. The easy part of economic reform has already been executed; the rate of industrial growth, currently pegged at 2.3 per cent, is an all-time low in the decade. In this situation, how he is going to achieve what all he has projected in his Budget? In such critical situation, one may try to say that the Finance Minister cannot do anything much better than the present Budget. My question is, then who else can be responsible for this? He is not only the author of this Budget but also the earlier four Budgets. Not only that, the BJP lead, the NDA Government, headed by Shri Vajpayeeji, has been in power for the last four years. Four years is quite enough for a Party to do something concrete. They are responsible because they have presented all the Budgets during the last four years. Ruling side may immediately ask me, "Are there no highlights or any positive measures?" In this connection I am reminded of the famous Thirukkural couplets: It means, "to decide an issue, one should think of the prosand cons, the pluses and minuses, and whatever be the overweighing factor, then a decision must be made accordingly." I am certainly aware that it has got certain highlights also. I am sure, the Treasury Benches occupied by the NDA partners will be happy to note that we are conceding certain important aspects. I very much agree that he has gone on the right lines on one issue, that is, agriculture. Seventy per cent of the entire population of our country are agriculturists. He has touched upon this issue very well and he has done something concrete in the field of agriculture. Many people have praised him saying that it will be a kind of ‘third revolution’. He has touched upon infrastructure development also. As such he has taken a right step. One more important thing I am able to note is that in the process of disinvestment, he is able to anticipate receipt of about Rs. 12,000 crore. It will be a new source of income, which was not available earlier. One more point which I really appreciate is about the reform-linked assistance to States. The States’ financial position is in doldrums. In order to encourage the States to have a healthy economy, they are going to give them reform-linked assistance. This is a very good move. He has initiated some other positive measures. Though I do not know whether these positive measures will really improve the rate of our economic growth or not , I am sure, the economic imbalances will certainly be set right and some improvements can be made while correcting the economic imbalance. Sir, I have been watching from the very beginning that the Chairman has been very considerate to almost all Members, irrespective of Parties, and has allowed them enough time to make their submissions. But I am not duly allowed to speak. The Chairman has not been very considerate to me today. I have to make more observation still. Sir, we have seen the dream Budget of the hon. Finance Minister earlier. Many economists, experts and consultants have called this Budget as a dull Budget. Why ? There could have been umpteen number of reasons for that. I would not venture to elaborate on them as I can understand the uneasy feelings of the Chairman for want of time. I would touch upon one or two points. Sir, the Budget increased tax burden on the middle class. I would like to refer particularly to the hike in the prices of LPG cylinders and kerosene. Not only myself, but the entire House, even the Members belonging to the allies parties of the NDA Government have said that the prices of LPG cylinders and kerosene should be reduced fully and rolled back totally. The Members of this house demand a complete roll back of the prices. Sir, in this connection I would also like to mention about another aspect. There are about 30 handloom weavers in the State of Tamil Nadu and they are dependent on hank-yarn. Not only for the handloom weavers, hank-yarn is an important input, a raw material, for the textile mills also for making finished products. Unfortunately, for the first time in history, the hon. Finance Minister has levied an excise duty of eight to nine per cent on this. I have not been able to understand the concept behind levying of excise duty for the first time on this item. I would like to have a specific reply to this point from the hon. Finance Minister. Sir, the hon. Finance Minister has proposed to levy taxes on cable operators, on travel agents, on imported coffee and all such areas. So, all these sectors would be charged heavily. Levy of additional tax and re-introduction of dividend tax will only make the demand static and would never allow the demand to grow. There cannot be investment unless you generate demand. Thus, the individual tax-payers, the housewives, the middle class, the pensioners, the life insurers, the cable operators, almost all segments of the society are unhappy and are dejected. What you need is the greatest happiness for the greatest number of people. But where are the greatest number of people that are going to be happy with this Budget? Now you may shoot up with a question whether I have any suggestion to make to the Budget? … (Interruptions) Sir, I would finish within five minutes. Sir, as far as the measures are concerned, I would restrict myself to the core points only. Firstly, how are you going to contain fiscal deficit? Fiscal deficit is the greatest problem for the Finance Minister. A minor improvement in the fiscal deficit would generate a lot of funds for infrastructural development. How to do that? When you want to improve upon your resources, you have to control your expenditure. When you are so much worried about controlling expenditure,you should think of a special exercise and a separate exercise of "expenditure reform". This is my suggestion. Secondly, the most shocking area is that you are paying a substantial amount of your resources by way of interest. I am told that you are paying 25 paise a rupee you earn by way of interest payment. How are you going to control that? Then, there is a question of consumer demand and investment. You can think of certain new areas of economic reform like the labour market, the agriculture sector, privatisation of State Assets. Sir, how far the policy of LGP – liberalisation, globalisation and privatisation – has had its impact on the Indian economy? It is a debatable point. Industries have sunk and workers are being thrown out of job. How is the Government going to protect the industry? The Government has to take steps to safeguard the livelihood of lakhs and lakhs of these employees. Giving training for alternative jobs may be thought of. Out of the total tax revenue collections of the Centre, 29.5 per cent is being shared with the States. Out of such collections Rs.3,300 and odd crores should have been given to Tamil Nadu as its share. This was the commitment of the Central Government. Based on that, Tamil Nadu made commitment in its Budget. But on account of short fall in the collection of Central Taxes, there was a shortfall of Rs.572 crore in the share to Tamil Nadu. As a result of this, Tamil Nadu is not getting the money it was promised. Therefore, Tamil Nadu has requested the Central Government to give that amount by way of open market loan. But the Centre has not permitted the Tamil Nadu Government to even raise the entire amount as loan. On the other hand, the Centre has given Rs.200 and odd crore only that is nearly 50%. Shri Mani Shankar Aiyar on the other day stated in the House that the Government was giving relief to Punjab farmers who have been affected by the flood. Why should this not be done in the case of farmers in the Cauvery belt who have also been damaged by flood? Why should they be discriminated ? Under MPLAD Scheme, the Government is giving only Rs.2 crore per MP while the States have increased the amount given to their MLAs by lakhs and lakhs of rupees. An MLA representing one Assembly constituency in Tamil Nadu is being given Rs.82 lakh. A Lok Sabha Constituency comprises of six Assembly Constituencies. So, the amount to be given to a Member of Parliament should be at least Rs.5 crore. We are handling six Assembly Constituencies. How can we do justice to such a vast area with just Rs.2 crore? The situation now is that an MLA is able to do better work in his Constituency than a Member of Parliament! 

SHRI VAIKO ( SIVAKASI ): Every Member of this House, including the Minister, supports this suggestion. … (Interruptions) Sir, some of the Members who never go to their Constituencies may feel that this amount is enough. Members who work for their Constituencies find it very difficult to manage with. MR. CHAIRMAN : I also appeal to the Finance Minister to take the sentiments of the Members into consideration. SHRI K. MALAISAMY : Finally, I want to thank you , sir, for your reaction in regard to the Sethusamudram project the other day. However, now we are told that there is some possible objection from the Ministry of Environment. I would request you, sir to kindly get over if any difficulty and see that the project is implemented speedily. 1700 hrs. (Shri Shriniwas Patil in the Chair) 

 

*SHRI P.D. ELANGOVAN ( DHARMAPURI ): Hon. Chairman Sir, with the zeal to restructure our Indian economy and with a long term perspective to usher in a bright future for the country, hon. Finance Minister has come with a Budget for this year. On behalf of our party Pattali Makkal Katchi and on behalf of our founder leader Dr Ramadas, I congratulate him and welcome this Budget. In order to improve the agriculture sector and the lot of the farmers who form the backbone of our country, certain measures have been spelt out in this revolutionary Budget. Giving a boost to our agro-economy, agricultural marketing and giving a fillip to our agro-based small scale industries, he has aimed at increasing our agricultural production and boosting our exports. These reforms would directly benefit our agriculturists and will lead to Third Green Revolution. Infrastructure development pertaining to agriculture sector and the enhancement of funds from Rs 64 thousand crore to Rs 75 thousand crore for distribution of loans to agriculturists are commendable. The agricultural credit facility would cover more farmers especially the self-help groups in the rural areas. Creation of Agricultural Insurance Corporation and increased allocation for new irrigation schemes and Agricultural Research are praiseworthy. Stress on laying rural roads and bringing about modernised power distribution would benefit the agricultural sector. I would like to appreciate them as welcome features. In order to ensure employment generation Swarna Jayanthi Swarozgar Yojana and Jayaprakash Rozgar Yojana have been introduced through this year’s Union Budget. You have also set apart 50 lakh tonnes of food grain for the Sampoorna Gramin Rozgar Yojana. These are quite enthusing and appreciable features of this Budget. Nation’s essential infrastructure like surface transport, highways, power sector, ports, civil aviation and communication are sought to be strengthened to assume international standards. The commendable power sector reforms and the insistence of the Centre to adopt the reforms regime and the Centre’s efforts to impress upon the State Governments are quite encouraging. The fund allocation for developmental work and empowerment of local administration as carried out by the State Governments are sought to be streamlined. These are important measures to usher in a prosperous future. A seven point Urban Development Plan with an exclusive fund and the proposed impetus aimed at Tourism Development are welcome features of the Budget. Infrastructure Development gets an allocation of about Rs 37,919 crore and on this score I would welcome again the Budget. In order to put back on the rails the slowed down industrial sector with a reduced growth rate several incentives have been proposed in this year’s Union Budget. Enhancement of credit facility available to small scale industries and small interpreneurs are steps in the right direction to revitalise the sagging small scale sector. Incentives and liberal availability of loan facilities to small scale sector have been announced in this Budget. The ceiling on loan amount has been raised to Rs 5 lakh from Rs 2 lakh. The move of the Government to extend loan upto Rs 5 lakh to small entrepreneurs even without security are widely acclaimed measures. Manufacturers of cloth and the garment industry have got the excise duty levied on them reduced. There is a reduction in the corporate tax levied on the foreign sector from 48% to 40%. Incentives that have been provided to steel industry would result in increased production and boost up sales. The banking sector reforms have positively reflected in the increased commercial activity. These are widely appreciated features of this year’s Budget. An allocation of Rs 100 crore has been made to reform and strengthen the cooperatives and improve credit facility. Improved housing and viable measures to mobilise funds for the same promises a bright future in store. The ‘Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan’ introduced through this Budget provides for free and compulsory education to all children between the age of 6 and 14. Enhancement of allocation for primary education from Rs 4000 crore to Rs 4900 crore is a move to lay a better foundation for a prosperous future. When we seek to implement this scheme care must be taken to cover children from rural areas and children hailing from the below-poverty-line group of the society. Children especially girl children must have education upto middle school level and watchfully we must overcome the dropout rate. Compulsory education must be provided to physically handicapped children also. The Centre has identified 146 educationally backward districts to pursue vigorous literacy programmes. I do not find any district from Tamil Nadu figuring in the list. I would like to point out that literacy rate is poor in Dharmapuri and Udaghamandalam districts in Tamil Nadu. I urge upon the Centre to include these districts also in the targeted-area-literacy-programme. Education must get further enhanced allocation of funds and the Government must take upon itself the responsibility. As a social security measure a new pension linked insurance scheme called ‘Jan Raksha’ has been announced. We also find several schemes for the welfare of women, children, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes as salient features of this Budget. Efforts to give a new thrust to Indian system of medicine, science and technology, entertainment industry are heart warming moves of the Government. Increase in import duty on rubber, tea, coffee and some of the plantation sector produce would protect the interests of our plantation cultivators. Sethu Samudram project, Hoganekkal drinking water scheme, Hoganekkal hydro-electric plant project are pending for long in Tamil Nadu. I urge upon the Centre to ensure fund allocation and the much needed financial resources. Tamil Nadu is one among the few States that earn more for the Union treasury through revenue collection. Hence I urge upon you to provide for increased allocation to education, human resources development, rural development, health and highways. Disinvestments of public sector units have not yielded desired results. Expected profits have not been met. Workers have not been assured of their socio-economic security. Hence we urge upon the Union Government to go slow and take adequate care in disinvestment and privatisation of public sector units. It must be made a point not to hand over to the private sector the profit making public sector units. It is only through these viable public sector units that we could secure the 12th position in the industrial map of the world. In Tamil Nadu, Salem Steel Plant has been already privatised. Now the profit making Neyveli Lignite Corporation is about to be privatised. On behalf of our party Pattali Makkal Katchi- PMK – I would like the Centre to reconsider the move and rescind the decision. Withdrawal of subsidies to the farming sector, some of the reform measures in the banking sector and certain policy changes in the wake of globalisation and liberalisation have hit hard the agricultural sector. With the inadequate returns the buying power has diminished. Unemployment problem is on the increase. This is showing up in the slow down of industrial growth and the fall in economic growth rate. According to a UNDP report, as for Human Resources Development, India is placed in the 100th position among 137 countries. This is far from enthusing and rather disturbing. This year 2002 is observed as ‘the year of quality education’ and this should be the commencement of a new chapter in providing quality education. Rise in poverty and unemployment and the increase in number of people falling below poverty line in the last 10 years is a cause for concern. Even at a time when we have huge stock of food grains like wheat and rice in our godowns, we come across hunger and related deaths. On behalf of our party PMK I urge upon the Centre to take concrete steps to put an end to starvation deaths. In order to reduce Government expenditure, Centre has decided to cut 12,200 Government jobs and this would only aggravate unemployment problem. Educated unemployed youth may lose hope and faith and may be disillusioned. They may not be enthused to be enterprising. There is no guarantee that the private sector would ensure social justice and empowerment of the depressed classes like the Scheduled Castes and Backward Class. When privatisation is at full swing, the Government may take steps to make it mandatory for the private sector to have reservation in jobs. Parochialism spreads a virus in the society. As a cancer social disparities arise out of social and economic inequalities. The widening gap between the haves and the have nots and the rich and the poor are causing despair. India may be emerging as a rich country but the number of poor people is also on the increase. Our economic growth rate is pegged down to 5.4%. The factors for this deceleration and stagnation must be identified. Unless they are eased out industrial growth might remain impeded. At a time when cash flow must increase there is a danger of the current trends yielding negative results. Rise in kerosene price, increase in LPG cylinder price, removal of subsidy on fertilisers like urea would affect the poor and the middle class as well. Farming community may be put to great hardship. Hence I urge upon the Government to withdraw this move at this juncture. Considering the fact that liberalisation may affect and might even wipe out our small scale sector, the Government must provide for adequate safeguard mechanism to protect them. With the unassailable hope that the Government would continue with positive measures to ensure our nation’s progress and prosperity, I welcome this Budget on behalf of our party Pattali Makkal Katchi – PMK – I extend my support to the Union Budget. __________________________________________________________________ 
*Translation of Speech originally delivered in Tamil. SHRI MADHUSUDAN MISTRY ( SABARKANTHA ): Sir, I thank you very much for giving me this opportunity to speak. Sir, there are two elements which govern the society. One of them is a law and the other one is the finance. These are the key elements. The laws are implemented by creating machinery which needs finance. The law treats every citizen of this country equal. But we find a lot of inequality as far as the income is concerned. Sir, I understand that the Budget is an instrument to reduce that income disparity which is prevailing; to reduce the income gap between different sections; to reduce the regional imbalances if they are in the country; and it is presumed that the State would act as a trustee while allocating the resources be it finance or be it natural resources. I have learnt analysing the Budget very late. Ever since I have learnt to analyse the Budget and whenever the Budget is presented in this House and in my own State from where I come, I always wonder where the construction labour in this Budget. What they have to do with this? What agricultural labour has to do with the Budget which number not less than ten crores in this country? There are millions and millions of self-employed people in this country. What they have to do with the Budget? There are tribals, dalits, OBCs, small and marginal farmers, forest labourers, and other labourers. What they have to do with this Budget? All of them live below the poverty line. Sir, when Shri Mani Shankar Aiyar was presenting his comments on the Budget I also wondered about the basis on which the allocations are made in the Budget. I was trying to corelate that basis with the millions of people who are living below the poverty line in this country. The Finance Minister is not here. Two years before, he said in his Budget Speech that 320 million people are living below the poverty line and this year theEconomic Survey says that 260 million people are living below the poverty line. So, it is a reduction of almost 60 million people in just a span of two years. Last night I read the entire report of the Lakadawala Committee. I was rather surprised because Lakadawala Committee Report while drawing the poverty line had taken 2400 calories as the basis while ICMR norms for people who are doing hard work keep it between 2700 calories and 3400 calories. I was told that we provide our soldiers food worth nearly 4500 calories. Now the very basis of food intake and the money one requires to purchase this food is linked again with the employment and the minimum wages. Now, one has to see whether all these criteria which have been taken by the expert group really cover the ground realities or not. We have only one organisation called the National Sample Survey Organisation which carries regular surveys in this country. Normally, those data are being used by the academicians of this country. Survey after surveys show that there is reduction in poverty. It is never said that the poverty has stagnated. In a State like Gujarat, we had drought, we had an earthquake and we had a cyclone also. In these natural calamities many people have lost their home and hearths. But, it is assumed that once a person or a family crosses the poverty line, they never slip again below the poverty line. So, there is something wrong in arriving at the figures of the people living below poverty line. I am stressing this point partly because the entire allocations made in the social sectors and all the schemes which have been drawn are all targeted towards removal of poverty through employment generation. That is the basis and therefore the very basis has to be corrected. I was just wondering whether this House should discuss it once and for all and decide the methodology or criterion of calculating the number of people living below poverty line. The second point I would like to make is the question as to how people who are living below the poverty line are dealt with. The answer given to us is that they should be provided with social security and work. The work being provided to them is being calculated in terms of man days. I was looking at the whole concept of man days. I found specially in my own constituency in Gujarat that the work done by a land levelling machine like a tractor is taken into account. They take the total amount spent on such a scheme and divide it by the minimum wage and whatever number comes is taken as the man-days of work done. So, the man-days of work does not in fact suggest that money has really gone into the pockets of the poor. There are a lot of other components which have been built into the calculation of man-days and as a result it does not give the correct picture. The picture is distorted to that extent. The next point is about the strategy that we have to deal with the people who are living below poverty line. As I mentioned, they increase the social sector spending. But the Economic Survey says here that from 1997 to 1998 taking up of schemes in the social sector has not increased more than one per cent. It has been ranging between 1.36 per cent and 1.7 per cent. So, the social sector spending has been stagnated. Therefore, on all the major schemes in the social sector and for rural development we are spending only 1.1 per cent of the GDP. The strategy itself does not allow people to come up above poverty line. I have my own doubt whether the money allocated in this Budget too would really make any difference in bringing the people above poverty line. Last time when the Finance Minister had presented the Supplementary Demands for Grants, I made a point that when the Budget is presented the BE are on the higher side, specially in respect of the rural development schemes. But when you see the RE in a number of schemes the amount has been slashed. If you look at all those highlights in the RE you will come to know the exact picture. Take for example the rehabilitation of scavengers. Sir, Rs.74 crore was allocated in the BE which has been reduced to Rs.8.21 crore at the RE stage. In respect of welfare of SC schemes, Rs.43 crore was allocated in the BE and at the RE stage it was reduced by 1.9 crore. There are a series of schemes I can go on narrating. I do not know the reason why they go on reducing the amount shown in the BE at the time of revising the estimates. They do not give the reason why they reduce the allocation once they have made in the Budget. Even in respect of schemes like Annapurna, Swarna Jayanthi Gram Swarojgar Yojana they have reduced the allocation. There are other examples where there has been a cut of Rs.170 crore, Rs.150 crore and Rs.140 crore, etc. It is done because the Revised Estimates never come for strict scrutiny. As a result of this, it has become a much easier instrument to reduce the allocation. If you want to do it, you can certain do it. Now, that leads me to another point especially as far as certain sections of the society are concerned…… (Interruptions) I have calculated a table. From that table, I want to mention that out of our total budget, we spend nearly 28.61 per cent on interest, nearly 15.84 per cent on Defence expenditure, 9.7 per cent on subsidies, 4.81 per cent on grants to States and UTs and 11.75 per cent on other non-Plan expenditure which makes to nearly 70 per cent of it. We have very little amount left, in fact, for the schemes and programmes related to the poor. There is a reason for it. What happens is that, since non-Plan expenditure goes on increasing, we have no alternative but to simply borrow money. As a result, it is mounting on the interest part. Borrowing has reached to an extent whereby we spend nearly 61 per cent of the total disbursement towards debt service obligations, that is, loan repayment and interest payment. Sir, I am referring to the C&AG report which I got last night. I draw the attention of the Finance Minister that C&AG Report, year after year, says in article 292 that this Parliament has to fix a limit on borrowing. And year after year, the PAC has made its observation that we have never ever fixed a limit on borrowing. As a result, we go on borrowing money which ultimately results in payment of more and more interest which, in turn, results in shrinking of the money to be allocated to the various schemes. Sir, please allow me to speak for one or two more minutes. I have not taken more time. MR. CHAIRMAN : Only 25 minutes are left for your Party from the time allotted to it and there are three more speakers. It means they will get about 8 minutes or so. I am not interested in cutting the time of your Party. SHRI MADHUSUDAN MISTRY : Sir, I have only a few suggestions to make. I feel that though it is a growth-oriented Budget, in fact, it creates only a few jobs. You have growth but you have very little jobs created. Out of 150,000 crores, pertaining to my State, it has created only one lakh jobs in the last ten years. We have growth but we do not have employment opportunities or employment potential for the millions and millions of the people of this country. In fact, there are 41.3 million people who are job seekers, according to CMI’s report. I have a few suggestions to make for the Finance Minister. One of them is, you have suggested in the Industrial Disputes Act that if an establishment with less than 1000 employees wants to close down, then it can go after paying a certain amount of money. I would also tell you to enforce payment of Minimum Wages Act . It will bring quite a lot of people above the poverty line. The enforcement of the Minimum Wages Act is so tardy and the money allotted to the Department is so low resulting in a position that millions of labourers never get the minimum wage and they permanently live below the poverty line. As regards the forest laws, you should create employment potential for the people who are living in forest areas. Finally, regarding big dams and others, I would request you to try your best and see that the Narmada Yojana in Gujarat is completed as early as possible besides all other infrastructure facilities which the State requires. Sir, I am curtailing my speech due to lack of time. SHRI HASSAN KHAN ( LADAKH ): Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, for giving me an opportunity to speak. I would like to take up only one specific point and would not like to talk in general. Hon. Finance Minister, in his Budget speech has mentioned that Inland Air Travel Tax is exempted in the North-Eastern States. He has further proposed to exampt Inland Air Travel Tax to and fro, from North-Eastern States. In this context, I would like to bring to the notice of the hon. Finance Minister that in the whole country, Ladakh is the only region which remains cut off from rest of the world for more than six months. There is no other route, except air travel for these six months. But North-Eastern States do not remain cut off completely by road or by sea. Even then North-Eastern States have been given the exemption. Thirty stations in the North-East and other remote areas have been exempt from the Inland Air Travel Tax under Section 44 of the Finance Act of 1989, though all these thirty stations have links either by sea or by land. But Ladakh does not have any link from any part of the world for six to seven months. The only mode of travel is air for this region during these times. Any person, be it a beggar or a rich person, has to travel by air. My submission to the hon. Finance Minister is that this exemption may kindly be extended to Ladakh region also as several other exemptions and facilities, like exemption from tax and exemption from freight charges for petroleum products, have been extended to Ladakh on the analogy of North East. Probably, it has not come to the notice of the hon. Finance Ministry and the Civil Aviation Ministry. In the Civil Aviation Policy for promotion of Aviation in North East and other remote arreas, Ladakh is not included .included My submission is that this may kindly be considered. I am not taking up any other point as my colleague would like to elaborate on them. This is the burning issue in that region because air travel is the only mode of transport or communication during the winter months. श्री प्रभुनाथ सिंह ( महाराजगंज, बिहार ) : सभापति जी, मैं बजट के पक्ष में बोलने के लिए खड़ा हुआ हूं लेकिन कुछ सुझाव दूंगा। बजट में बहुत कुछ ऐसी बढ़ोत्तरी है जिससे मैं सहमत हूं लेकिन कुछ चीजों के दाम जो घटे हुए हैं, उनसे मैं असहमत हूं। यह सही है कि पिछला वर्ष प्राकृतिक विपदाओं के साथ संधर्ष का भी वर्ष रहा है, चाहे वह गुजरात का भूकम्प हो, चाहे बिहार, उत्तर प्रदेश में बाढ़ की विपदा हो, सीमा पर तनाव हो, आतंकवाद की बढ़ोत्तरी हो, कश्मीर विधान सभा पर हमला हो, लोक सभा पर हमला हो। इन सभी परिस्थितियों से जूझने में कहीं न कहीं अर्थ पर बोझ पड़ता है और इस बोझ को उठाते हुए सरकार ने विपरीत परिस्थितियों में भी बहुत अच्छे ढंग से इस लड़ाई में सफलता पाने का काम किया है। देश में दो मद होती हैं, योजना मद और गैरयोजना मद। गैरयोजना मद में जो खर्च की राशियां हर साल आती हैं और जिस तरह से सी.ए.जी. की रिपोर्ट आती रहती हैं, हम यह कहते हैं कि इस सरकार को गैरयोजना मद में थोड़ी कटौती करनी चाहिए, क्योंकि गैरयोजना मद में कटौती करने से हमें लगता है कि जो आर्थिक मामला है, उसमें थोड़ी राहत जरूर मिल सकती है। वित्त मंत्री जी ने अपने भाषण में आंकड़ों के माध्यम से वैसे आंकड़ों का जाल कहा जाये, आंकड़ों का जाल भी बिछाया है और आंकड़ों के माध्यम से ही विपक्ष से उत्तर भी मिले हैं। हम कहीं आंकड़ों में नहीं जाना चाहते। हम आपको कुछ सही स्थिति, हकीकत आपके सामने रखना चाहते हैं, वित्त मंत्री जी ने भाषण के शुरूआत में कृषि और कृषक से ही शुरू किया है। यह बात सही भी है कि यह देश कृषि प्रधान देश है और कृषक हमारे देश की नींव भी हैं और सरकार की नीतियां भी कृषकों के लाभ के लिए बनती हैं और हम यह मानते हैं कि सरकार की नीयत भी अच्छी है, ये चाहते हैं कि गांवों का विकास हो, कृषकों को लाभ मिले, लेकिन वित्त मंत्री जी के बजट में ही यह बात आई है कि ये मामले राज्य से जुड़े हुए हैं। हम वित्त मंत्री जी से एक निवेदन करना चाहते हैं कि आप कृषि के विकास के लिए कृषकों के हित में जो राशि उपलब्ध कराते हैं, आप उसकी समीक्षा करने का काम तो जरूर करते होंगे। आप जब गांवों के लिए, किसानों के लिए जो राशि राज्यों को देते हैं, उस राशि का कितना उपयोग और कितना दुरुपयोग हुआ, कितना सही ढंग से धरती पर उतरता है या नहीं, आप अगर इसकी समीक्षा करते होंगे तो आपको यह जरूर महसूस होगा तो लगता है कि यह देश दो भागों में बंटा हुआ है, एक शहरी भाग और एक ग्रामीण भाग। जहां आप शहरों पर पैसा दैते हैं, जहां शहरों को सुन्दर बनाने के लिए, जगमगाहट के लिए आप पानी का फव्वारा उड़ाने का काम करते हैं, लेकिन वहीं किसान के खेत की फसल पानी के अभाव में सूखने का भी काम होता है। आखिर इतनी विषमता क्यों है? आप शहरों को सुन्दर बनाइये, पानी का फव्वारा उड़ाइये, इसमें हमारे जैसे लोगों को कहीं आपत्ति नहीं है, लेकिन आप इतनी व्यवस्था तो जरूर कीजिए कि गांव के किसानों का खेत पानी के अभाव में सूखने नहीं पाये। आप एक तरफ बिजली की चकाचौंध के लिए धन खर्च करते हैं। आप गांवों में भी बिजली के लिए व्यवस्था करते हैं, लेकिन जरा गांव के करीब जाकर देखिये, गांव के नजदीक जाकर देखिये कि एक टिमटिमाती हुई डबिया भी देहात में गरीबों के घर में नसीब नहीं होती है। अगर आप जो पैसा देते हैं, उसका गांवों के विकास पर सही उपयोग होता है तो हम यह जानना चाहते हैं कि यह पैसा जाता कहां है। रोजगार, बेरोजगार की बात आती है। हम लोग जब चुनाव लड़ने जाते हैं तो हर दल का मेनीफेस्टो निकालते हैं। उसमें बेरोजगारी दूर करने के हम लोग वायदा करते हैं, लेकिन पता नहीं कितनी बेरोजगारी दूर हो पाती है, नहीं हो पाती है, यह तो समीक्षा करने का विषय है। जहां तक कृषि का सवाल है, इस देश में उत्पादन बढ़ा है, इस बात से कोई इन्कार नहीं कर सकता। इस देश में अच्छे-अच्छे कृषि वैज्ञानिक हैं, लेकिन कृषि विज्ञान केन्द्र खुलते हैं, लेकिन कृषि विज्ञान केन्द्र और उन वैज्ञानिकों का लाभ गांव में तब पहुंचता है, जब कहीं न कहीं कोई दूसरा फार्मूला सामने आ जाता है, इसलिए कृषि विज्ञान केन्द्र को गांवों की तरफ आप ले जाइये। जिले के स्तर पर केन्द्र खोलिये ताकि किसानों को इसका सही समय पर लाभ मिल सके। वित्त मंत्री जी, हम एक बात और बताना चाहते हैं। किसान का उत्पादन बढ़ाने में बहुत से वैज्ञानिकों का कार्यक्रम है, उसका लाभ भी मिला है, लेकिन इसके साथ ही हम यह भी कहना चाहते हैं कि जो स्टोर के लिए आपने पिछले साल स्कीम निकाली कि स्टोर बनेंगे, जिससे किसानों को बहुत लाभ होगा। बहुत से राज्यों में स्टोर बने हैं, आपके आंकड़ों में यह बात है, लेकिन आप यह पता करते हैं कि देश के जिन राज्यों में स्टोर नहीं बने हैं, जैसे बिहार है, आपने जो नीति बनाई है, वह बिहार में लागू क्यों नहीं हुई, इसका क्या कारण है? क्या आपके देश में बिहार नहीं है? यदि बिहार में यह लागू नहीं हुआ तो आपकी कोई जिम्मेदारी बनती है कि नहीं? जब आप नीति लागू करते हैं, वह देश के हर प्रान्त में लागू होनी चाहिए अगर नीति ठीक से लागू नहीं होती है तो आप उसकी समीक्षा करके कुछ रास्ता निकालेंगे या नहीं या सिर्फ इस लोक सभा में शब्दजाल से ही काम चलता हो कि उससे ही गांव का विकास हो जाएगा, तो हमें कुछ नहीं कहना है। अगर जाल से काम नहीं चलता है, तो आप भंडारण की व्यवस्था करें। आप एक तरफ किसानों को कहते हैं कि हमने उनको क्रेडिट कार्ड दिए हैं, लेकिन क्या आपने कभी इसकी समीक्षा की है कि कितने राज्यों में कितने किसानों को ये मिले हैं। अब आप झारखंड के निवासी हो चुके हैं, लेकिन मूलत: तो आप बिहार के ही हैं। बिहार में कितनो किसानों को क्रेडिट कार्ड का लाभ मिला है, यह भी देखें। आप कहते हैं कि सहकारिता के माध्यम से किसानों को ऋण देते हैं। देश में जहां सहकारी बैंक हैं, वहां घपले और घोटाले होते हैं। चाहे महाराष्ट्र हो या अन्य राज्य हो। बिहार में सारे सहकारी बैंक बंद हो चुके हैं। अभी आपके विभाग से इस बारे में अपील भी की गई है। हमने पूछा का क्यों बंद हुए, पहले तो चलते थे। उन्होंने कहा कि रिजर्व बैंक से लाइसेंस प्राप्त नहीं था। २०-२५ वर्षों से बिहार में बिना लाइसेंस के ही सहकारी बैंक चल रहे थे। उनमें जितने लोगों का पैसा जमा था, वह सील हो गया है। अब किसानों को कहां से लाभ मिलेगा। बिहार में सहकारिता बैंकों में जहां लाइसेंस के अभाव में तालाबंदी हो चुकी है, आप जल्दी से जल्दी खुलवाने का काम करें। सभापति जी, मैं आपके माध्यम से कहना चाहता हूं कि बेरोजगारों को रोजगार देने के लिए आपने कई योजनाएं चलाई हैं। उद्योग विभाग के माध्यम से नौजवान ऋण के लिए आवेदन करते हैं। नामों की स्वीकृति होती है, बैंक ऋण देता है। लेकिन बैंक में ऋण देने का प्रावधान क्या है, इसे हम सब जानते हैं, मैं यहां उसको कहना नहीं चाहता। आप इस बात की समीक्षा करें कि कितने प्रतिशत लोगों को ऋण मिलता है। अगर बेरोजगारी को दूर करने की बात आप करते हैं तो इन सब बातों पर ध्यान दें। विद्युत की बात की जाती है कि देश में विद्युतीकरण हो गया है। बिहार में बिजली की बहुत बुरी स्थिति है। विद्युतीकरण के ऊपर वहां एक मीटिंग हुई थी, उसमें रघुनाथ झा जी भी थे। वहां पता चला कि गांव के गांव कागजों पर विद्युतीकृत हो चुके हैं। इस पर काफी चर्चा हुई थी। आप इस काम के लिए पैसा देते हैं, लेकिन उसकी समीक्षा नहीं करते कि पैसा कहां खर्च होता है। मैं कहना चाहता हूं कि वह पैसा केवल कागजों पर ही खर्च होता है। किसी गांव में खम्भा है तो तार नहीं है। अगर तार टांग दी गई है तो बत्ती गांव में नहीं दिखाई देती। जबकि इस पर करोड़ों रुपया खर्च हो चुका है। उत्तर बिहार में पावर ग्रिड ने एक योजना चलाई थी। उसमें राज्य सरकार ने अंडरटेकिंग लेना था। उस सम्बन्ध में विद्युत मंत्री जी से मीटिंग हुई थी। उसमें रघुवंश प्रसाद जी भी थे। वे बताएंगे कि उन्होंने राज्य सरकार से इस मामले पर बात की है या नहीं, क्योंकि उन्होंने बात करने का वादा किया था। इस कारण बिहार देश में सबसे पिछड़ा हुआ राज्य हो गया है। आप चाहे कितनी भी पैसा यहां से भेजें, वह खर्च होता है या नहीं, अगर उसकी समीक्षा नहीं की जाएगी तो कोई फायदा बिहार की जनता को होने वाला नहीं है। जहां तक ग्रामीण विकास की बात है, आपने ग्राम समृद्धि योजना, सम्पूर्ण रोजगार योजना और अब लोकनायक जयप्रकाश नारायण के नाम पर रोजगार गारंटी योजना जैसी बहुत सी योजनाएं चलाई हैं। आप इन योजनाओं के अंतर्गत पैसा देते हैं। मैं वित्त मंत्री जी से कहना चाहता हूं कि जितनी मात्रा में पैसा देते हैं, उसका उपयोग और दुरुपयोग की अगर समीक्षा नहीं करेंगे तो हमें नहीं लगता कि उस पैसे का कोई अर्थ रह जाएगा। मेरी जानकारी के अनुसार, बाकी सब सदस्य भी इस बात से सहमत होंगे कि जो राशि आप देते हैं, उसका ५० प्रतिशत से ज्यादा भाग खर्च नहीं हो पाता। यह राशि खर्च करने में किस तरह की परेशानी है, किस तरह के बिचौलिए हैं, किस तरह का प्रतिशत है, आप पैसा तो दे देते हैं, लेकिन वह धरती पर नहीं उतरता। आप इस पर नियंत्रण करें, समीक्षा करें, ताकि जिस काम के लिए पैसा दिया जाता है, वह सही ढंग से उसी काम पर खर्च हो सके। आपने बहुत सी योजनाएं चलाई हैं। प्रधान मंत्री ग्राम सड़क योजना भी चलाई गई है। हम मानते हैं कि आपकी नीयत है कि गांव का विकास हो, वहां सड़कों का निर्माण हो। यह योजना बहुत अच्छी है। इस योजना के तहत अभी तक देश में तीन किस्तें चली गई हैं, जिससे गांवों में सड़कों का निर्माण हो सके। बिहार में भी एक किस्त गई है। जो यह किस्त गई है, उसकी नविदा नहीं निकाली है। नविदा यदि कुछ जगहों की निकल चुकी है तो नविदा फाइनल नहीं हुई है, इसलिए वहां काम भी शुरू नहीं हुआ है और आप कहते हैं कि सन् २००५ तक पूरा कर लेंगे। किस आधार पर पूरा कर लेंगे?इस पर हमने कई बार चर्चा की और माननीय प्रधान मंत्री जी से मिलकर हम लोगों ने आग्रह किया था कि जिन राज्यों की राज्य सरकारें इस रुपये का उपयोग नही करती हैं तो आप दूसरी एजेंसी से काम कराइए। एक तरफ तो इसी देश का दूसरा प्रांत जहां सड़क निर्माण कराने के लिए कहीं न कहीं तत्पर है और वहां काम शुरू भी हो रहा है, वहीं एक प्रांत बिहार है, जहां पैसा जाने के बाद भी काम नहीं हो रहा है। इसलिए हम निवेदन करेंगे कि कम से कम ग्रामीण सड़क योजना जो प्रधान मंत्री जी के नाम पर है और इस योजना में आप राशि भी अच्छी दे रहे हैं, उसका काम भी अच्छा हो रहा है, ऐसी स्थिति में बिहार मे काम कैसे शुरू होगा, इसकी व्यवस्था कराइए। पैट्रोलियम उत्पादों के कुछ के दाम बढ़े हैं और कुछ के दाम घटे हैं। जो सदन में चर्चाएं चली हैं, उसमें हमें थोड़ी सी मत-भिन्नता है। पैट्रोलियम में दो चीजों के दाम बढ़े हैं। मिट्टी के तेल और एलपीजी के दाम बढ़े हैं। हम इस दाम बढ़ने से सहमत हैं और हम इसलिए सहमत हैं कि जो भी पीडीएस के माध्यम से मिट्टी का तेल गांवों में जाता है और जिस वर्ग के उपयोग के लिए जाता है लेकिन कभी भी वह उनको नहीं मिल पाता है। वह या तो पीडीएस के दुकानदार या बिचौलिये और सरकारी कर्मचारी मिलकर काला बाजार में बेचते हैं और कालाबाजारी के माध्यम से गरीबों को खरीदना पड़ता है। हम तो यह कहेंगे कि राशन में तेल का दाम कम होने से डीजल में मिलावट ज्यादा होती है। हम यह कहेंगे कि तेल का दाम और बढ़ा दीजिए और डीजल का दाम कम कर दीजिए। इससे जहां मिलावट रुक जाएगी, वहीं मिट्टी के तेल को फ्री कर दीजिए जिससे जहां जिस को मन होगा, वह वहां से ले लेगा। इससे मिलावट रुक जाएगी और गरीबों को इससे नुकसान भी नहीं होगा, उनके ऊपर बोझ नहीं पड़ेगा। कारण यह है कि दाम बढ़ाएंगे तो भी गरीबों को बाजार से कम रेट पर पड़ेगा। जहां तक एलपीजी के दाम बढ़ाने का सवाल है, आपसे एक आग्रह करेंगे कि एक बार यदि कोई दाम बढ़ा देते हैं तो गाड़ी को आगे और पीछे क्यों करते हैं? एक ही बार सोच-समझकर क्यों नहीं दाम बढ़ाते? आपने ४० रुपया बढ़ाया तो बढ़ाकर रखते और इस दाम बढ़ाने में भी हम सहमत हैं क्योंकि एलपीजी का उपयोग गांवों में रहने वाले कितने प्रतिशत लोग करते हैं? अभी राम नाईक जी के जमाने में बहुत सी एजेंसी देश के देहातों में खुली हुई हैं और हमें जानकारी है कि तीन-तीन महीने से, चार-चार महीने से गैसे की एजेंसी लोगों ने ले रखी हैं और ५०-६० या ८० से ज्यादा कंज्यूमर नहीं मिल रहे हैं। सभापति महोदय : आपकी पार्टी को बीस मिनट मिले हैं और पन्द्रह मिनट आपने ले लिये हैं। श्री प्रभुनाथ सिंह : सभापति जी, मैं दो-तीन मिनट में अपनी बात समाप्त कर दूंगा। हम यह बता रहे थे कि देहातों में अभी भी पूरे देश को मिला दिया जाये तो भी तीन से साढ़े तीन प्रतिशत से ज्यादा लोग एलपीजी का उपयोग नही करते हैं। इसका उपयोग कहां होता है, इसका उपयोग दिल्ली, कलकत्ता, मद्रास और मुम्बई जैसे शहरों में होता है तथा देहाती इलाकों के जिला मुख्यालय पर इसका उपयोग होता है। इन बड़े शहरों में जो रहते हैं, उनको पैसे की समस्या नहीं है। उनके लिए पैसा समस्या है और जो गांवों के लोगों की हित की बात करते हैं तो हम बताना चाहते हैं कि गांवों के लोगों का खाना आज भी लकड़ी पर बनता है। उनका खाना मवेशी के गोबर का गोमठा औऱ चिमड़ी पर बनता है। इसलिए ऐसी योजना बनाइए कि जो किसानों के खेतों से लकड़ी पैदा होती है, उस लकड़ी पर सब्सिडी की व्यवस्था कीजिए ताकि किसान लकड़ी का उत्पादन ज्यादा बढ़ाएं और उस उत्पादन बढ़ने से प्रदूषण की समस्या का समाधान होगा और लोगों को बीमारी भी कम होगी, गोमठी और चिमड़ी का उत्पादन बढ़ाएं, उससे रासायनिक खादों का उपयोग भी खेत में कम होगा और गरीब तबके का मनोबल बढ़ेगा। उससे हम यह मानकर चलते हैं कि इससे गरीबों को आर्थिक लाभ मिलेगा। इसलिए इस बिन्दु पर आप गंभीरता से सोचिए। हम आपसे सांसद मद की राशि के संबंध में निवेदन करना चाहते हैं। यह दुर्गति हो गई है। अच्छा होगा यदि यह दो करोड़ रुपया भी वापस ले लीजिए। वापस नहीं लीजिएगा तो दुर्गति मत करिए। आप गांवों का विकास चाहते हैं, लेकिन आपको ब्यूरोक्रेट्स पर इतना भरोसा है कि सारा धन ब्यूरोक्रेट्स के माध्यम से आप खर्च कराते हैं ।आपको सांसदों पर भरोसा नहीं है। अगर आप सांसदों की प्रतिष्ठा चाहते हैं, तो इस राशि को बढ़ा दीजिए, ताकि हम गांवों में सही ढंग से उपयोग कर सकें, नहीं तो इस राशि को वापिस ले लीजिए। यदि आप ऐसा करते हैं, तो हम गाली सुनने से मुक्त हो जायेंगे। यदि आप गाली सुनवाना ही चाहते हैं, तो इससे खतरा आप पर भी बढ़ेगा, क्यों हम सासंद है और आप वित्त मंत्री हैं। यदि सांसद गोल हो जायेंगे, तो आप भी गोल हो जायेंगे। इसलिए हम आपसे नम्र निवेदन करना चाहते हैं कि इस राशि को साफ कर दीजिए, नहीं तो इसको जरूर बढ़ा दीजिए, ताकि गांवों में इस राशि का सही ढंग से उपयोग किया जा सके। …( व्यवधान)विधान सभा के हिसाब से एक करोड़ रुपए कर दीजिए। यदि आप नहीं चाहते हैं, आपकी आर्थिक स्थिति बद-से-बदतर है, तो आप दो करोड़ रुपए भी वापिस ले लीजिए और अपनी वित्तीय स्थिति सुधार लीजिए। महोदय, एक निवेदन और करना चाहते हैं। उद्योग धन्धों का वनिवेश कर रहे हैं। मुझे लगता है, इससे देश गुलामी की तरफ जाएगा। एक तरफ आप कल-कारखाने नहीं खोल रहे हैं और दूसरी तरफ आप बेरोजगारी दूर करने की बात कह रहे हैं। आबादी दिन-प्रति-दिन बढ़ती जा रही है। जब यह स्थिति है, तो आप रोजगार किस प्रकार देंगे? महोदय, बिहार सबसे पिछड़ा हुआ प्रान्त है। वहां जूट के अभाव में पांच-छ: कारखाने बन्द है। वहीं दूसरी ओर पांच कारखाने जो पश्चिम बंगाल में है, सही ढंग से चल रहे हैं। इसका कारण क्या है?इसी तरह से बरौनी में खाद का कारखाना है, वह भी बन्द है। बरौनी के खाद के कारखाने को सही ढंग से चलाने के लिए नीतीश कुमार जी के नेतृत्व में आपसे मिले थे। हम भी साथ में थे और इस संबंध में आपसे निवेदन किए थे। इस समय भी हम आपसे नम्रता से निवेदन करना चाहते हैं कि बिहार पिछड़ा हुआ राज्य है, एक तरफ तो वहां कल-कारखाने नहीं लग रहे हैं और जो लगे हुए हैं, वे बन्द हो रहे हैं। यह दुर्भाग्यपूर्ण स्थिति है। वित्त मंत्री जी आप अपने आप को झारखण्ड का मत मानिए, आप बिहार के भी हैं और आप तो देश के वित्त मंत्री हैं। बिहार के हित में जितना हो सके, अधिक से अधिक कार्य करें और बरौनी में स्थित फर्टिलाइजर कारखाने को शुरू करायें। इन शब्दों के साथ, आपको धन्यवाद देते हुए, हम बजट का समर्थन करते हैं और अपनी बात समाप्त करते हैं। डॉ. रघुवंश प्रसाद सिंह ( वैशाली ): महोदय, गांधी जी की प्रार्थना है - " वैष्णव जन तो तेने कहिए, पीड़ पराई जाने रे।", लेकिन हम लोगों के यहां गांव में कहावत है - "जा के पैर न फटे बिवाई, ऊ क्या जाने पीड़ पराई।"मैं अपनी बात एक कहानी से शुरु करता हूं। एक राजा थे और उनके यहां ठाकुर हज्जाम था। उनको दान में चावल आदि मिल जाता था, लेकिन एक जगह से उनको गाय मिल गई। रोज वे दूध-भात खाते। एक दिन राजा ने हज्जाम से पूछा - ठाकुर, तुम सब जगह घूमते हो, प्रजा के बीच में जाते हो, प्रजा की क्या हालत है? हज्जाम बोला - सारी प्रजा आराम से है, खुशहाल है। सब जगह लोग आनन्द से खा-पी रहे हैं। यही बात एक होशियार आदमी सुन रहा था, जो राजा को समझाने का प्रयास कर रहा था और कह रहा था कि प्रजा की बहुत बुरी हालत है। लेकिन राजा के पास तो हज्जाम की रिपोर्ट थी। उस होशियार आदमी ने राजा को सुझाव दिया कि आप उस हज्जाम की गाय यहां मंगा लीजिए और फिर उससे पूछिए। राजा ने हुक्म दे दिया और उसकी गाय मंगा ली गई। अगले दिन फिर हज्जाम जब राजा के यहां गया, तो राजा ने पूछा - हज्जाम तुम सब जगह घुमते हो, प्रजा का क्या हाल है? ठाकुर हज्जाम बोला - हुजूर, बहुत बुरी हालत है। सब जगह भुखमरी है.। प्रजा की हालत बहुत खराब है। ऐसी ही स्थिति कुछ माननीय सदस्यों की है। गरीब की क्या पीड़ा है। यहां ये खुशामद में जय-जयकार बोल रहे हैं। इस बजट की बहुत से लोग फज़ीहत कर रहे हैं और कह रहे हैं कि बड़ा भारी, बड़ा अच्छा बजट है। वित्त मंत्री, प्रधान मंत्री को सब धन्यवाद, बधाइयां दे रहे हैं। महोदय, अभी प्रभुनाथ सिंह जी बड़े गुस्से में बोल रहे थे कि मिट्टी के तेल के दाम बढ़ा दिए। देश भर में जो रूरल पापुलेशन है, उसमें ३० प्रतिशत नेशनल एवरेज़ ऐसी है, जिनके घरों में बिजली जलती है। बिहार में ५.६ प्रतिशत, उत्तर प्रदेश में ११ प्रतिशत घरों में बिजली है लेकिन ७० प्रतिशत घरों में बिजली नहीं है। वहां मिट्टी के तेल से लैम्प आदि जला कर रोशनी करते हैं। सरकार ने इसके दाम बढ़ा दिए। इनकी तरफ से तर्क देने वाले लोग हैं - जो ब्लैक या एडलट्रेशन होता है, उनके बल पर जो सरकार बनी है, ये ब्लेकिए और एडलट्रेशन वाले इसे नहीं रोक पाएंगे। इनकी तरफ से यही सुझाव आएगा कि इसके दाम बढ़ा दिए जाएं। गरीबों पर खर्चे का बोझ बढ़ा दिया जाए। एलपीजी पर ४० रुपए बढ़ा कर २० रुपए घटाए। ये कहते हैं कि इसे बड़े लोग इस्तेमाल करते हैं। मिडल क्लास के लोग इसका इस्तेमाल करते हैं, अब तो गांवों में भी लोग गैस का इस्तेमाल करते हैं। वहां गैस की एजेंसी बंटवा रहे हैं और यहां कहते हैं कि बड़े लोग इसका इस्तेमाल करते हैं। इसी तरह किसान पर भी खर्चा बढ़ा है। किसान आत्महत्या कर रहे हैं। इससे बढ़ कर क्या उसकी पीड़ा का वर्णन किया जाए। उसके बाद यहां क्रेडिट कार्ड बंट रहा है, बहुत अच्छी बात है, बहुत धन्यवाद। महोदय, किसान मर रहा है। हर तरह का किसान देश भर में है। उसने जो उत्पादन किया है, उसके दाम उसे नहीं मिल रहे हैं। उसे आधे दाम पर अपना उत्पादन बेचना पड़ रहा है। आलू, प्याज, गन्ना, नारियल, दलहन, तिलहन, चावल, गेहूं, दूध, तरकारी आदि हर तरह के किसान मर रहे हैं। नये मेम्बर कह रहे थे कि लालबहादुर शास्त्री जी का फार्मूला है - "जय जवान, जय किसान।"इनके राज में है - "क्षयजवान, क्षयकिसान।"ये किसान के बारे में नहीं सोच रहे हैं। इनके बजट की हालत का सब लोगों ने वर्णन कर दिया। इनका फज़िकल डेफसिट बढ़ा है, रेवेन्यू घटा है। बिहार को ७०० करोड़ रुपए का नुकसान हुआ है। उड़ीसा का क्या हाल है - ये रेवेन्यू वसूल नहीं कर पाए, विफल रहे। रेवेन्यू में जो स्टेट का हिस्सा होता है, जो ९,००० करोड़ रुपए का घाटा हुआ, उसमें बिहार को केवल ७०० करोड़ रुपए का घाटा हुआ लेकिन ये कहते हैं कि बड़ा पैसा बांट रहे हैं। वसूली नहीं हुई, इसलिए स्टेट को जो हिस्सा मिलता है वह नहीं मिलेगा। देश भर में आठ लाख करोड़ रुपए का काला धन है। अब आईडीबीआई और सब बैंकों को मिला कर ८२,००० करोड़ रुपए बकाया हो गए हैं। बड़े लोगों पर ६२,००० करोड़ रुपए इंकम टैक्स के बकाया हैं, लेकिन इसमें कहीं एक लाईन भी नहीं है कि यह सब पैसा वसूल करके घाटे की पूर्ति की जाए। किसान पर, आम आदमी पर खर्च बढ़ा, गरीब और मध्य वर्ग पर सिक्योरिटी सरचार्ज लग रहा है। पहले भूकम्प, कारगिल सरचार्ज लगा और अब सिक्योरिटी सरचार्ज मध्यम वर्गीय लोगों पर लग रहा है। हर वर्ग त्राहि-त्राहि कर रहा है। वह गरीबी से तबाह हो जाएगा। महोदय, यह इनका पांचवा बजट है, लेकिन दसवीं पंचवर्षीय योजना का प्रथम बजट है। इसका महत्व है, लेकिन इस दिशाहीन बजट से देश की समस्याएं और बढ़ेंगी, बेरोजगारी बढ़ेगी। आप गरीब लोगों का आंकड़ा देखें।"तू कहता कागज की लेखी, मैं कहता आंखन की देखी।" महोदय, गांवों में गरीबों का क्या हाल है - वहां बेरोजगारी और भुखमरी है। इनकी फूड पॉलिसी चौपट है। छ: करोड़ टन अनाज सड़ रहा है। "एक तरफ अन्न सड़े और दूसरी तरफ अंतड़ी जले।" एक तरफ गरीब भूख से तबाह है और एक तरफ अनाज सड़ रहा है। देवेन्द्र यादव जी की कमेटी की रिपोर्ट आई है। इस रिपोर्ट में कहा गया है कि १८५ करोड़ रुपये का अनाज इस तरह से सड़ा है कि वह पशुओं के खाने के लायक भी नहीं रहा। सरकार के लिए समस्या है कि इसे कहां रखा जाए? फूड पॉलिसी इनकी चौपट है, एक तरफ प्रोक्योरमेंट नहीं हो रहा है और दूसरी तरफ अनाज को गोदामों में रखने के लिए जगह नहीं है। हर जगह बर्बादी ही बर्बादी है महोदय। इस बजट से हम कोई आशा नहीं कर सकते। चारों तरफ हर क्षेत्र में निराशा ही निराशा है, लोगों में घोर निराशा है। विदेशों से शराब आ रही है और उसके दाम घटाए हैं लेकिन मिट्टी के तेल की कीमत ये लोग बढ़ाए हैं। सहयोगी दलों ने, समाज के सभी वर्गों ने इसे घटाने की मांग की है और हम भी मांग करते हैं कि खाद पर जो सब्सिडी घटाए हैं और मिट्टी के तेल पर कीमत बढ़ाए हैं, रसोई गैस पर जो ४० रुपये बढ़ाए फिर २० रुपये वापस लिये, ये क्या मजबूरी है आपकी। इनको चाहिए था कि कालाबाजारियों से कालाधन निकालते लेकिन इन लोगों ने आम लोगों पर बोझा बढ़ा दिया है, क्यों नहीं बड़े लोगों पर बोझा बढ़ाते हैं। गांधी जी ने कहा था कि कोई भी काम करने से पहले देखिये कि उससे गरीब आदमी को फायदा हो रहा है या नहीं। माननीय वित्त मंत्री जी को मैं चुनौती देता हूं कि वे बताएं कि दाम बढ़ाने से गरीब आदमी को क्या फायदा मिल रहा है, उसकी किस समस्या का समाधान हो रहा है। इनकी बजट नीति किसी काम की नहीं है। रूटीन बजट में रूटीन ही काम चल रहा है। योजनाओं के नाम बदले जा रहे हैं। कहीं ५००० रुपया बढ़ाया-घटाया गया है, कहीं नाम बदला गया है। जवाहर रोजगार योजना को जयप्रकाश नरायण रोजगार योजना, ग्राम समृद्धि योजना कर दिया और भी कई योजनाओं के नाम इन्होंने बदल दिये हैं। वभिन्न योजनाओं के नाम बदलकर अपना काम कर रहे हैं। स्वामी विवेकानंद जी ने कहा था कि कोई भी बड़ा काम टि्रक से नहीं चल सकता है। प्रधान मंत्री ग्राम सड़क योजना में आपका दिशा-निर्देश गलत है। कहा गया है कि उसमें ऑल वैदर रोड बनाया जाएगा। हम पूछना चाहते हैं कि उसमें ईंटकरण किया गया है या नहीं। पहले से आरएडीजीपी, एनआरईपी, सुनिश्चित रोजगार योजना, विधायक कोटा, सांसद कोटा और वभिन्न कोटा माध्यमों से जिन गांवों को जोड़ा गया है वह ईंटकरण से जोड़ा गया है लेकिन अब ईंटकरण का मामला खत्म हो गया है और हजारों की आबादी वाले हमारे गांव अभी सड़क से जुड़ने की सुविधा से बचे हुए हैं। इन वभिन्न योजनाओं से कुछ गांव जुड़े हैं लेकिन हजारों की संख्या में अभी भी बचे हुए हैं। जब प्रधान मंत्री ग्राम सड़क योजना शुरू हुई तो उसमें जो पहले का ईंटकरण जो बना है वह सड़क भी ली जा रही है। पहला ईंटकरण उखाड़ करके दूसरा ईंटा बिछाकर यह काम किया जाए, इस पर संसद में विचार नहीं हुआ है। हमारी मांग है कि प्रधान मंत्री सड़क योजना पर बहस होनी चाहिए। वभिन्न राज्यों जैसे उत्तर प्रदेश और बिहार में तो इसे शुरू भी नहीं किया गया है। पावर सैक्टर की चर्चा हो रही है लेकिन इसमें भी बड़ी टि्रक चल रही है। एपीडीपी प्रोग्राम चला। वर्ष २००१-२००२ के प्रथम किश्त में एक हजार करोड़ रुपये दूसरे वर्ष में १५०० करोड़ रुपये और इस तरह से २५०० करोड़ रुपये एपीडीपी में। । लेकिन उसमें एक पैसा भी खर्च नहीं हुआ। यह सरकार टि्रक करती है। उसमें एक पेंच लगा दिया और कहा गया कि ५० प्रतिशत उसमें राज्य सरकार देगी और ५० प्रति लोन और अनुदान होगा। लेकिन इस प्रोग्राम को कोई भी राज्य सरकार नहीं ले सकी। इस वर्ष में १५०० करोड़ रुपये और २००२-२००३ के लिए कुछ और बढ़ाया होगा लेकिन कोई खर्चा नहीं हुआ। कहा गया कि ५० प्रतिशत राज्य सरकार लगाए और ५० प्रतिशत लोन और अनुदान तो इससे राज्य सरकार को क्या फायदा होगा। सभापति महोदय : अभी ६ बज रहे हैं तथा १५ स्पीकर बाकी हैं। सदन की राय हो तो दो घंटे का समय बढ़ा दिया जाए। डॉ. रघुवंश प्रसाद सिंह : ठीक है महोदय। सभापति महोदय : ठीक है, दो घंटे का टाइम बढ़ाया जाता है। 18.00 hrs. 

डॉ. रघुवंश प्रसाद सिंह :खुशी की बात है कि सरकार ने कहा है कि प्रधान मंत्री ग्रामोदय योजना के अन्तर्गत गांवों का विद्युतीकरण करेंगे। श्रीमती जयश्री बैनर्जी ( जबलपुर ) : आप जैसे समय बढ़ा रहे हैं, उसके हिसाब से समय भी बांट दीजिए। डॉ. रघुवंश प्रसाद सिंह : प्रधान मंत्री ग्रामोदय योजना क्या है? बिहार को ३६ करोड़ रुपए में से १८ करोड़ रुपए प्रथम किश्त के रूप में मिले। इसमें से १२ करोड़ रुपए लोन के रूप में और ६ करोड़ रुपए अनुदान के रूप में मिले यानी दो तिहाई ऋण और एक तिहाई अनुदान। कहा गया कि इसके अन्तर्गत ग्रामीण विद्युतीकरण कराएंगे। मीनिमम नीड्स प्रोग्राम देखें। बिहार को विद्युतीकरण के लिए १९९६-९७ में एक करोड़ ३७ लाख रुपए मिले। १९९८-९९ में देश भर के लिए २२०० करोड़ रुपए मिले लेकिन बिहार को शून्य मिला। १९९९-२००० में देश भर के लिए ३१०० करोड़ रुपए मिले लेकिन बिहार को शून्य मिले। २०००-२००१ में देश भर के लिए ४१०० करोड़ रुपए मिले लेकिन बिहार को शून्य मिले। मैं चुनौती देता हूं अगर कोई मेरी बात को काटे। इस वर्ष पहली बार बिहार और झारखंड को ३७ करोड़ रुपए मिले। श्री प्रभुनाथ सिंह : पैसा नहीं मिला लेकिन जो मिला क्या उससे फर्जी काम नहीं हुए? डॉ. रघुवंश प्रसाद सिंह : १९९८-९९ में शून्य मिला, १९९९-२००० में शून्य मिला, २०००-२००१ में शून्य मिला लेकिन इस बार ३७ करोड़ रुपए बिहार और झारखंड के हिस्से आए। इसमें से बिहार का कितना हिस्सा होना चाहिए? मैं इसमें श्री रघुनाथ झा या प्रभुनाथ जी को पंच मानने के लिए तैयार हूं। सदन का कोई भी माननीय सदस्य मुझे बताए कि इतनी राशि में बिहार को कितना हिस्सा मिलना चाहिए? माननीय वित्त मंत्री इसका साफ तौर पर जवाब दें। आपने बिहार को केवल नौ करोड़ रुपए दिए यानी चौथाई हिस्सा और २८ करोड़ रुपए झारखंड को दिए। इस तरह की बेईमानी, अन्याय, दुश्मनी बिहार के साथ क्यों हो रही है? किस फार्मूले के हिसाब से उसे यह पैसा दिया गया, मैं साफ तौर पर इसका जवाब चाहता हूं? हमारी आबादी ८ करोड़ २० लाख है और झारखंड की आबादी २ करोड़ ६० लाख है। हमारी जमीन उनसे ज्यादा है, गांव की संख्या भी ज्यादा है। किस बुनियाद और किस क्राइटीरिया से हमें यह राशि दी गई? यह कैसी एनडीए की सरकार है? बिहार के साथ ऐसी दुश्मनी क्यों की जा रही है? विद्युतीकरण के नाम पर पहली बार पैसा मिला लेकिन उसमें भी अन्याय हुआ। सभी माननीय सदस्य इस बात पर विचार करें। ३७ करोड़ रुपए में से ९ करोड़ रुपए बिहार को और २८ करोड़ रुपए झारखंड को मिले है। यह किस फार्मूले के हिसाब से मिले हैं? इस तरह की बदनीयती, दुश्मनी और अन्याय सैंटर की तरफ से बिहार के साथ हुई। ऐसे में बिहार जैसा गरीब राज्य कैसे तरक्की करेगा? आज अधिकांश राज्यों की हालत खराब है। स्टेट्स की वित्तीय स्थिति ठीक नहीं है। पांचवा वेतन आयोग बिठाया गया। सरकारी कर्मचारियों को दिए जाने वाले वेतन में बढ़ोत्तरी होने से खर्चा बढ़ गया लेकिन केन्द्र से कोई मदद नहीं मिली। नौंवी पंचवर्षीय योजना में ४८०० करोड़ रुपए सैंट्रल स्पौंसर्ड स्कीम पर खर्च किए गए। इसमें से बिहार और झारखंड दोनों को ४८० करोड़ रुपए कम से कम मिलने चाहिए। उसमें से दसवां हिस्सा ५० करोड़ रुपया मिला। जहां हमें सालाना १०० करोड़ रुपया और मिलना चाहिये था,वहां श्री प्रभुनाथ सिंह जी कह रहे हैं कि बहुत पैसा बिहार को जा रहा है। नौवीं पंचवर्षीय योजना के लिये पीने के पानी हेतु ७८०० करोड़ रुपया खर्च हुआ है। इसमें दसवां हिस्सा ७८० करोड़ रुपया बिहार और झारखंड को मिलना चाहिये था, लेकिन मिला ८० करोड़ रुपया और इस तरह से ७०० करोड़ रुपया कम दिया गया। सैंट्रल स्पांसर्ड स्कीम में ७०० करोड़ रुपया न देकर बिहार का गला काटा गया। बिहार को सालाना १०० करोड़ रुपया से ज्यादा मिलना चाहिये था लेकिन देखा जाये तो नौवीं पंचवर्षीय योजना में पांच वर्षों के हिसाब से या तो शून्य मिला अथवा नगण्य मिला। अपने हिस्से के मुताबिक नहीं मिला है। राज्य सरकार की वित्तीय स्थिति क्या है, उसे समझा जा सकता है। जब बिहार का बटवारा हुआ तो सब सदस्यों ने कहा था कि पैकेज दिलवायेंगे और हम लोग माननीय प्रधानमंत्री जी से भी मिले जिसमें लोकसभा और राज्य सभा के ६० सदस्य मौजूद थे। प्रधानमंत्री जी को आर्थिक पैकेज देने के लिये ज्ञापन दिया गया और आग्रह किया गया कि केन्द्र का बिहार पर जो कर्जा है और बटवारे के बाद बिहार का फाइनेंशियल डेफसिट ३००० करोड़ रुपये का है, हमें २१०० करोड रुपये कर्जे के रूप में चुकाने पड़ रहे हैं जिससे विकास का काम नहीं हो सकता। इसलिये राज्य की खराब वित्तीय हालत को देखते हुये आर्थिक मदद दी जाये। सैंट्रली स्पौंसर्ड स्कीम्स में नगण्य राशि बिहार को जा रही है। वभिन्न राज्यों की आर्थिक हालत खराब है, उनका कर्जा माफ कर दिया जाये । मैं उदाहरण के तौर पर बताना चाहूंगा कि बिहार की योजना का आकार छोटा कर दिया गया और आठवीं पंचवर्षीय योजना में १३ हजार करोड़ रुपये था लेकिन ८ हजार करोड़ रुपया खर्च किया गया और ५ हजार करोड़ रुपया खर्च नहीं किया गया। इसी तरह नौवीं पंचवर्षीय योजना के लिये १८ हजार करोड़ रुपया था जिसमें १२ हजार करोड़ रुपया खर्च किया गया और छ :हजार करोड़ रुपया खर्च नहीं किया गया। फिर योजना का नया आकार बना, उसमें भी कम खर्च किया गया। सैंट्रली स्पौंसर्ड स्कीम्स में बिहार को मदद नहीं मिली। उसके एवज़ में कहा गया कि बिहार पर केन्द्र का बकाया कर्जा माफ किया जाये, बिहार को विशेष राज्य का दर्जा दिया जाये। इसके लिये पांच शर्त रखी गई जिसमें चार क्राइटीरिया फुलफिल कतीा हैं। बिहार प्राकृतिक आपदा, बाढ़, सुखाड़ और जल जमाव से प्रभावित है। रिजर्व बैंक के आदेश पर सेन कमेटी जांच के लिये बिहार गई थी। उसने बताया कि बिहार सरकार के बस में इन समस्याओं का हल नहीं है लेकिन सरकार उस पर भी ध्यान नहीं दे रही है। आज १० लाख हैक्टेयर जमीन जल जमाव से प्रभावित रहता है। उसमें एक लाख हैक्टेयर मोकामा में और ९ लाख हैक्टेयर उत्तर बिहार में है। हर साल यह क्षेत्र बाढ़ से बरबाद होता है। इस संबंध में बिहार का हर एक सदस्य बोलता है कि भारत-नेपाल से समझौता किया जाये। बाढ़ नियंत्रण का काम, जल जमाव की निकासी का काम करके सुखाड़ से सिंचाई की व्यवस्था की जानी चाहिये लेकिन वह सब नहीं हो रहा है। सभापति जी, मैं वित्त मंत्री जी को याद दिलाना चाहता हूं क्योंकि यह कहा गया था कि बिहार को आर्थिक पैकेज देंगे। अगर किसी कर्मचारी को वेतन नहीं मिला और कहा जाये कि बोनस देंगे, उसी तरह बिहार की हालत है। १०वें वेतन आयोग ने कहा था कि हर साल पंचायत मद में १२५ करोड़ रुपया देंगे। ११वें वित्त आयोग ने भी कहा इस हिसाब से पिछले ४ वर्षों में हमें चार-पांच सौ करोड़ मिलना चाहिये था। ११वें वित्त आयोग ने पंचायती राज मद में ६२५ करोड रुपया काट लिया है। हमने यहां सवाल उठाया था। वित्त मंत्री जी ने कहा था, जब श्री नीतीश कुमार बिहार के मुख्यमंत्री थे और बाद में जब श्रीमती राबड़ी देवी मुख्यमंत्री बनी तो उन्होंने यहां पत्र लिखा था कि १०वें और ११वें वित्त आयोग ने अनुशंसा की थी कि पंचायती राज मद में हमें जो रुपया मिलना है, वह मिल जाये। मेरे पास वह प्रोसीडिंग्स रखी है जिसमें उन्होने वचन दिया था लेकिन उस वचन का क्या हुआ। मैं वित्त मंत्री जी से जानना चाहता हूं कि ६२५ करोड़ रुपये का क्या हुआ। आज बिहार में पंचायती राज के चुनाव में एक लाख ३७ हजार लोग चुनाव जीते हैं। बाहर लोग लड़ रहे हैं कि वहां कुछ काम दो, लेकिन पैसा नहीं है। गरीब राज्य का पैसा विधान मंडल ने पारित किया था। उसने एक लाख ७९ करोड़ रुपया पास किया था और कहा था कि हमें पैकेज मिलना चाहिए। पैकेज क्या मिलेगा दशम् वित्त आयोग, जो पंच होता है, ११वां वित्त आयोग जो पंच होता है, उसका कहा हुआ पैसा ये नहीं दे रहे हैं। इससे बढ़कर दुश्मनी और अन्याय क्या हो सकता है। इसीलिए हमने कहा कि ये गवर्नमैन्ट ऑफ एन.डी.ए. की तरह फंक्शन कर रहे हैं, गवर्नमैन्ट ऑफ इंडिया की तरह फंक्शन नहीं कर रहे हैं। देश के एक बड़े भूभाग की उपेक्षा कर दी जाए, उसे केन्द्र से हिस्सा न मिले, उससे दुश्मनी की जाए, यदि इतनी रीजनल डिस्पैरिटी, इतना रीजनल इम्बैलेन्स आर्थिक मामलों में होगा तो देश एक कैसे रहेगा। इसीलिए देश में दुश्मन भी हैं। सरकार को गवर्नमैन्ट ऑफ इंडिया की तरह फंक्शऩ करना चाहिए। यहां हर कोई शपथ लेता है कि हम राग-द्वेष से काम नहीं करेंगे, हम संविधान को अक्षुण्ण रखेंगे, भारत में एकता और अखंडता रखेंगे, लेकिन हमारे साथ दुव्र्यवहार हो रहा है। एक गरीब राज्य से केन्द्र की दुश्मनी है। …( व्यवधान)लेकिन वहां की जनता से आपकी क्या दुश्मनी है। सभापति महोदय : अब आप समाप्त कीजिए। डॉ. रघुवंश प्रसाद सिंह : झारखंड में सिंदरी फर्टीलाइजर यूनिट और नामरूप के लिए कमेटी ने कहा था कि ये वॉयबल हैं, इनका रिहैबलिटेशन प्रोग्राम लागू होना चाहिए। लेकिन नामरूप का लागू हुआ, सिंदरी फर्टीलाइजर का लागू नहीं हुआ। बरौनी फर्टीलाइजर बंद है, उसे भी रिहैबलिटेट करना है। सभापति महोदय : अब आप खत्म करिये और श्री देवेन्द्र प्रसाद यादव जी आप शुरू करिये। डॉ. रघुवंश प्रसाद सिंह : मैं खत्म कर रहा हूं।अमझोर का यूनिट बंद है। यह पी.पी.सी.एल. की यूनिट है। हम लोग उनके यहां गये थे तो वित्त मंत्री जी से ऐसा उत्तर आया, जैसे कोई दुश्मन बोल रहा हो। बिहार के साथ इनका ऐसा व्यवहार है। राज्य सरकारों पर सारा कसूर मढ़ देते हैं। राज्य सरकारें केन्द्र सरकार पर सारा कसूर मढ़ देंगी। दोनों कर रहे हैं एक दूसरे पर धकियाई और उसमें हो रही है जनता की पिसाई। ये मेरे सारे सवालात हैं, जिन पर मैं इनसे उत्तर की मांग कर रहा हूं। बिहार के ६० सांसदों ने प्रधान मंत्री जी से मिलकर अपील की थी। प्रधान मंत्री जी ने कहा कि क्या आप लोगों ने वित्त मंत्री जी से बात की है।…( व्यवधान) सभापति महोदय : जिनका नाम पुकारा है वह खड़े हैं। अब आप समाप्त कीजिए। डॉ. रघुवंश प्रसाद सिंह : वित्त मंत्री जी सो रहे हैं, उन पर उसका असर नहीं पड़ रहा है। सूरदास के पद में आया है कि काले कम्बल पर चढ़े न दूजो रंग।…( व्यवधान) MR. CHAIRMAN : Now, please conclude. Otherwise nothing will go on record. डॉ. रघुवंश प्रसाद सिंह :सभापति महोदय, बिहार के साथ अन्याय हो रहा है। इसलिए हमारा आर्थिक पैकेज वाला सवाल, कर्ज वाला सेवाल, विद्युतीकरण वाला सवाल और जो ३३० करोड़ रुपये का ट्रांसमीशन का प्रोजेक्ट है।…( व्यवधान)यह प्रोजेक्ट केन्द्र के पास गया है, उसे स्पेशल पैकेज में शामिल किया जाए।…( व्यवधान) MR. CHAIRMAN: Please conclude now. The time allotted to your party is not 25 minutes. डॉ. रघुवंश प्रसाद सिंह :मैं खत्म कर रहा हूं। इस ट्रांसमीशन प्रोजेक्ट का पैसा बढ़ा दिया जाए। मुंगेर का पुल पूर्व घोषित है। मैं उसके लिए भी मांग करता हूं। सेतुसमुद्रम पर उठकर वित्त मंत्री जी ने बोल दिया था, लेकिन मुंगेर से पुल पर क्यों बैठे हुए हैं। इसलिए चूंकि तमिलनाडु और केरल आदि के एम.पीज.आपस में लड़ते हैं, लेकिन राज्य के हित पर एक हो जाते हैं। लेकिन हम लोगों में कमजोरी है।…( व्यवधान)बिहार से जो प्रोपोजल आया है, केन्द्र सरकार उस पर मौन बैठी है। आप इस बार बोल दीजिए कि इस बार की दसवीं पंच वर्षीय योजना में पैसा दिया जायेगा। सभापति महोदय, बिहार के साथ अन्याय और अत्याचार न हो। इस गरीब विरोधी, किसान विरोधी और जनविरोधी बजट को मेरी सदन से प्रार्थना है कि वह इसे खारिज करे और जनोन्मुखी, गरीबोन्मुखी, किसानोन्मुखी बजट लागू करे। इन्हीं शब्दों के साथ मैं अपनी बात समाप्त करता हूं। श्री देवेन्द्र प्रसाद यादव ( झंझारपुर ) : सभापति जी, वर्ष २००२-२००३ के सामान्य बजट पर बोलने के लिए मैं खड़ा हुआ हूँ। इस बजट में किसानों की आज़ादी की बात कही गई है, किसानों को स्वतंत्रता प्रदान करने की बात कही गई है। माननीय वित्त मंत्री जी ने क्रैडिट कार्ड के द्वारा इसकी कोशिश भी की है। मंत्री जी के पास जानकारी होगी कि पूरे देश में किसानों की आबादी कितनी है। कहते हैं कि ७५ प्रतिशत से अधिक लोग खेती पर निर्भर करते हैं, लेकिन अभी तक ६३ लाख से १ करोड़ किसानों को क्रैडिट मिल पाया है। बजट में शीत भंडारण के निर्माण के लिए ऋण देने का भी प्रावधान किया गया है और ७० करोड़ रुपये सब्सिडी आबंटित करने का बजट प्रस्ताव है। मैं कहना चाहता हूँ कि मूल रूप में किसान की जो बुनियादी समस्या है, उस पर पूरी गंभीरता से विचार नहीं हुआ है। बजट में किसानों को सूखे तथा बाढ़ से निपटने के लिए जो दीर्घकालीन ठोस योजना होनी चाहिए, किसानों को लाभकारी मूल्य दिलाने की बात होनी चाहिए, उस पर पूरी तरह तवज्जह नहीं दी गई है, इसलिए मैं इसका जिक्र करना चाहता हूँ। आज पूरे देश में किसान ही ऐसा समुदाय है जिसने अपने काम में उन्नति की है। बजट में आपने दावा किया है कि हम अन्न भंडारण में ६० मलियन टन पर पहुँच गए हैं। यह भंडारण किसने पहुँचाया है? देश में सभी क्षेत्रों में डिटीरियोरेशन हो रहा है, गिरावट का दौर चल रहा है, अवमूल्यन का दौर चल रहा है - चाहे लोकतांत्रिक संस्थाएं हों, डिबेट का स्तर हो या कोई भी उद्योग हो, सब जगह स्तर गिर रहा है, मगर अकेले किसान है जो खाद्यान्न के मामले में रिकार्ड उत्पादन कर रहा है और देश को अन्न भंडारण के मामले में ऊपर ले जा रहा है। मैं इसलिए इस बात का जिक्र कर रहा हूँ कि किसान का बेटा सरहद पर सीमा की सुरक्षा में लगा है, ग्लोबल टैररिज्म के खिलाफ लड़ रहा है और वहीं गांव में, खेत में घाटे का व्यवसाय भी किसान ही कर रहा है, अथाह अन्न पैदा कर रहा है और राष्ट्रीय उत्पादन में वृद्धि कर रहा है। दोनों काम एक तरह से किसान ही करता है लेकिन किसान ही आज भूखा है। मैं कहना चाहता हूँ कि देश तब तक खुशहाल नहीं हो सकता जब तक किसान खुशहाल नहीं होगा। किसान परेशानियों से, फटेहालियों से और गरीबी से जूझ रहा है। गाँव और किसान कहने से ही आपको गरीब कहने की ज़रूरत नहीं है, ये दोनों ही एक दूसरे के पर्यायवाची बन गए हैं। किसान कहने के बाद, गरीब कहने की जरूरत नहीं है क्योंकि वह गरीब होगा, परेशान होगा, फटेहाल होगा। यह वास्तविक स्थिति है इसलिए मैं इसका ज़िक्र कर रहा हूँ। इस साल खरीफ का जो न्यूनतम समर्थन मूल्य तय हुआ, किसान के धान का दाम ५३० रुपये प्रति क्िंवटल तय हुआ और ए ग्रेड का धान, पैडी का ५६० रुपये प्रति क्िंवटल तय हुआ। न्यूनतम समर्थन मूल्य किसके लिए तय होता है? इस देश के करोड़ों किसानों को लाभकारी मूल्य मिले, इस उद्देश्य से सरकार न्यूनतम समर्थन मूल्य तय करती है, लेकिन उसका लाभ कितना मिल रहा है मैं उसका एक उदाहरण देना चाहता हूँ। पिछले साल १२३ लाख मीटि्रक टन खाद्यान्न बिहार में उत्पादन हुआ था लेकिन प्रोक्योरमेंट हुआ ६६३६ मीटि्रक टन। इस साल बिहार में बहुत ज़ोर लगाने पर, बहुत मुस्तैदी के बाद ५०००० मीटि्रक टन धान और चावल का मिलाकर प्रोक्योरमेंट हुआ। जबकि पंजाब में पैडी का प्रोक्योरमेंट ७०८३,२१५ मीटि्रक टन हुआ और यह १८ मार्च तक का रेकार्ड है। चावल का ७९३६०४२ मीटि्रक टन हुआ है। मैं इसके विरोध में नहीं हूँ। एक करोड़ ५० लाख मीटि्रक टन का प्रोक्योरमेंट एक स्टेट पंजाब से होता है। पंजाब से प्रोक्योरमेंट हो, उसमें हमें कोई आपत्ति नहीं है। सभापति महोदय, हरियाणा में ३४,९०,०६० मीटि्रक टन पैडी का प्रोक्योरमेंट हुआ है, जो १३,९९,२८१ मी.टन की फिगर है, मैं उसके हिसाब से बता रहा हूं। मैं इसलिए इसका जिक्र करना चाहता हूं कि सब मिलाकर मोटे अनाज का बिहार से प्रोक्योरमेंट नहीं हो रहा है जैसे महुआ आदि है। जब मोटे अनाज की खरीद वहां से नहीं हो रही है तो गेहूं और चावल ही ऐसे दो अनाज बचते हैं जिनकी वहां से खरीद कर किसान की आर्थिक दशा सुधारी जा सकती है, लेकिन उसमें भी भेदभाव की नीति, दोहरे मानदंड की नीति अपनाई जा रही है। आपके द्वारा जो अनाजों की खरीद की जा रही है वह इस बात को उजागर करती है कि किस प्रकार से बिहार के साथ सौतेला व्यवहार किया जा रहा है। मैं समझता हूं कि बिहार के साथ ही नहीं बल्कि कर्नाटक आदि दूसरे राज्यों के साथ भी सौतेला व्यवहार किया जा रहा है। दो-तीन राज्यों को छोड़कर जिनमें आंध्रा प्रदेश, पंजाब और हरियाणा हैं, मैं समझता हूं कि हरियाणा के साथ भी इस मामले में न्याय नहीं किया जा रहा है। इसलिए एम.एस.पी. का लाभ किसानों को नहीं मिल रहा है क्योंकि दोहरे मानदंड स्थापित किए गए हैं। महोदय, मैंने पिछले सदन में भी यह कहा था कि यदि ईमानदारी से जो अधिकतम समर्थन मूल्य निर्धारित किया गया है, उस पर बिहार में खरीद की जाए तो बिहार के किसानों को २००० करोड़ रुपए केवल खरीद के माध्यम से ही प्राप्त हो सकते हैं, लेकिन वहां ऐसा नहीं किया जा रहा है। वहां समय पर खरीद केन्द्र स्थापित नहीं किए जाते हैं। ४० केन्द्र खोले गए उनमें से मुश्किल से २० काम कर रहे हैं। कहीं तराजू नहीं है, कहीं पर अन्य उपकरण नहीं हैं, कहीं पर असिस्टेंट टैक्नीकल आफीसर नहीं है जो धान या गेहूं की क्वालिटी या ग्रेड चैक कर सके। मुझे मालूम है वहां ग्रेड निर्धारण में हेराफेरी की जाती है। वहां की शिकायत पर एक जांच कमेटी गई थी, उसमें हेरा-फेरी पकड़ी गई थी। मैं कहना चाहता हूं कि किसी एक विशेष प्रकरण में पर्टीकुलर कार्रवाई करने से कुछ नहीं होगा बल्कि देश में एक समान नीति अपनाई जानी चाहिए और देखना चाहिए कि किस प्रकार से देश के किसान की समस्या दूर होगी, कैसे अन्न उत्पादक राज्यों को एम.एस.पी. का लाभ मिल सकता है। अभी आप देख लीजिए कि एम.एस.पी. का लाभ कितने प्रतिशत मिलता है। इसका मूल्यांकन करने की जरूरत है इसको सोचने और समझने की बात है। सभापति महोदय, अब गेहूं का सीजन आ रहा है। आज २० मार्च को मैं सदन में बोल रहा हूं, ३१ मार्च को वित्तीय वर्ष समाप्त हो रहा है और गेहूं का सीजन शुरू हो जाएगा, लेकिन अभी तक इस वर्ष का गेहूं का न्यूनतम समर्थन मूल्य तय नहीं किया गया है। किसान को पता ही नहीं है कि उसके गेहूं का सरकार ने इस वर्ष क्या समर्थन मूल्य निर्धारित किया है। आज हरियाणा, पंजाब, बिहार, आंध्रा प्रदेश,उत्तर प्रदेश,उडीसा, कर्नाटक और महाराष्ट्र राज्यों के किसानों के मन में भय है कि उनका गेहूं किस रेट पर क्रय किया जाएगा, यह उन्हें पता ही नहीं है। पिछले साल गेहूं का अधिकतम समर्थन मूल्य ६१० रुपए प्रति क्िंवटल था। वही अभी तक चल रहा है। मेरा निवेदन है कि सरकार को अब तक इस वर्ष का न्यूनतम समर्थन मूल्य घोषित कर देना चाहिए, वह अब तक तय हो जाना चाहिए। सभापति महोदय और भी कई समस्याएं हैं। भंडारण की समस्या है, लेकिन चूंकि समय नहीं है इसलिए उसके ऊपर ज्यादा नहीं कहना चाहता हूं। मैं अपने को केवल खरीद की समस्या तक ही सीमित रखना चाहता हूं। मैं कहना चाहता हूं कि केन्द्रीय पूल में प्रोक्योरमेंट की सीमा तय की जाए। केन्द्रीय पूल वह है जहां से आप सभी जगह के लिए अनाज डिस्ट्रीब्यूट करते हैं, जिससे जहां आवश्यकता हो, देश के हर हिस्से में अनाज उपभोक्ताओं को उपलब्ध हो सके। यह खरीद की सीमा राज्य के उत्पादन के आधार पर तय होनी चाहिए। इसके साथ मैं यह निवेदन भी करना चाहता हूं कि प्रत्येक राज्य में यह कोटा तय कीजिए कि कितना अनाज वहां की डौमैस्टिक जरूरत के अनुसार आवश्यक है और कितना ज्यादा है, अर्थात् सरप्लस अनाज है जिसको खरीदा जा सकता है और उसका कोटा सेंट्रल पूल में होना चाहिए। यह सब मैं इसलिए कह रहा हूं, सभापति महोदय, कि केवल बहस होती है, समस्या का जिक्र किया जाता है, लेकिन समस्या के समाधान के बारे में यहां कोई बात नहीं हो पाती है। इसलिए मैं समस्या के समाधान हेतु सुझाव दे रहा हूं कि प्रत्येक अन्न उत्पादक राज्य का सेंट्रल पूल में एक कोटा तय किया जाना चाहिए। महोदय, इसी प्रकार मैं निवेदन करना चाहता हूं कि जो बफर स्टाक प्रत्येक राज्य में है उसका भी प्रतिशत तय हो और यह देश के स्तर पर तय होना चाहिए ताकि प्रत्येक राज्य से उसके अनुसार खरीद हो सके और तीसरा मेरा सुझाव यह है कि जो राष्ट्रीय नीति है उसके तहत जिस राज्य में जिस जिस अन्न की ज्यादा खपत है, उसके उपलब्ध रहने पर, वह उसी राज्य विशेष से खरीदा जाए। यदि वहां अनाज उपलब्ध है तो उसे वहीं डिस्ट्रीब्यूट किया जाये। पी.डी.एस. में जो अनाज दिया जाता है, यदि वह ज्यी राज्य में उपलब्ध है तो वहां से ही क्यों नहीं लिया जाता। इससे ट्रांसपोर्टेशन कॉस्ट घट जायेगी। जैसे पंजाब से अनाज रेल रेक्स या ट्रक में लोड करके बिहार या पश्चिम बंगाल में लाते हैं तो ट्रांसपोर्टेशन कॉस्ट ज्यादा लगती है। जब डेफीसेट स्टेट में जहां अनाज उपलब्ध नहीं है वहां हम नजदीक के स्टेट से, जहां अनाज उपलब्ध है वहां से हम अनाज ले सकते हैं। जो डोमेस्टिक कन्जम्पशन है, जो खपत है, उसके लिए हम नजदीक के स्टेट से अनाज ले सकते हैं। इसलिए निश्चित रूप से इस पर विचार होना चाहिए। मैं प्रोक्योरमैंट और अनाज के संबंध में सरकार का ध्यान आपके माध्यम से इस ओर दिलाना चाहता हूं। खासकर किसी विशेष राज्य में यदि खरीद के लिए अनाज बच जाये तो वह खरीद निर्या लत के लिए हो। यदि अनाज बच जाये तो उस राज्य का हिस्सा भी एक्सपोर्ट के लिए फिक्स कर दीजिए। अच्छी क्वालिटी का अनाज है, एक्सपोर्ट क्वालिटी का है और वह कम्पीट कर रहा है तो उस राज्य का भी हिस्सा एक्सपोर्ट होना चाहिए। एक ही राज्य का सारा अनाज एक्सपोर्ट हो रहा है तो फॉरन मनी सिर्फ एक ही राज्य को मिल रही है। हम चाहते हैं कि सभी राज्यों के किसानों पर एक समान नीति लागू हो। मेरा चौथा प्वाइंट यह है कि घरेलू खपत के लिए जो अनाज का आवागमन है, उसे नियंत्रित किया जाये। सरकार ने फैसला लिया है कि वह इसे फ्री कर देंगी। आप इसे जरूर फ्री करिये लेकिन जो अनाज जा रहा है, वह आलरेडी ट्रेडर्स के बीच में जायेगा। जो किसी राज्य या क्षेत्र में समर्थन मूल्य को प्रभावित करेगा, तो ऐसे अनाज पर नियंत्रण करना जरूरी है। इससे जहां एम.एस.पी. प्रभावित होगा, किसानों का समर्थन मूल्य प्रभावित होगा, वहां अनाज को नियंत्रित करना जरूरी है। आवाजाही फ्री जरूर हो, जैसे डोमेस्टिक तेल निर्यात के लिए जा रहा है, उसके लिए एक मार्क लगाना चाहिए। इसलिए मैं कहना चाहता हूं कि निर्यात के लिए जो भी अनाज की खरीद हो, क्षेत्रीय आवश्यकता पड़ोसी राज्यों से पूरी की जाये और निर्यात के लिए जितने अनाज की खरीद देश में आवश्यक हो, वह नजदीक वाले राज्यों से की जानी चाहिए। राज्यों में अनाज का विशेष उत्पादन अधिकतम तय करें। खेती की पैदावार अन्य आवश्यकताओं के अनुरुप की जानी चाहिए तभी कृषि क्षेत्र में जो असंतुलन है, उस पर हम नजर रख सकते हैं, असंतुलन को दूर कर सकते हैं। प्रोक्योरमैंट पर मैंने कुछ सुझाव आपको दिये हैं। समय नहीं है इसलिए मैं थोड़ा दूसरे प्वाइंट पर बोलना चाहता हूं। डब्ल्यू.टी.ओ. का क्या मामला है ? MR. CHAIRMAN : Please conclude now because you have already consumed the time allotted to you. श्री देवेन्द्र प्रसाद यादव : सभापति जी, उधर से एक पार्टी से दो मैम्बर बोल रहे हैं। अगर आपका आदेश होगा तो मैं बैठ जाऊंगा, क्योंकि हम नियम का पालन करने वाले आदमी हैं। सभापति महोदय : आप बोलिये।...( व्यवधान) श्री देवेन्द्र प्रसाद यादव : इसलिए निवेदन कर रहा हूं कि डब्ल्यू.टी.ओ. का जो मामला है, दोहा डिक्लरेशन हुआ था, उसमें भारत सरकार की ओर से श्री मुरासोली मारन जी गये थे। मारन साहब ने काफी जोर लगाया, इसमें कोई शक नहीं है। उन्होंने हिन्दुस्तान के पक्ष को बहुत मजबूत ढंग से रखने की कोशिश की लेकिन खोदा पहाड़ निकली चुहिया। इसलिए मैं कहना चाहता हूं कि उस एग्रीमेंट में क्या कहा गया है। वहां जो एप्रोच पेपर तैयार हुआ, उसमें कहा गया है कि इसके लिए डोमेस्टिक सपोर्ट प्राइस को धीरे-धीरे रिडयूयस करना है क्योंकि वे ट्रेड को डिस्टॉर्ट करना चाहते हैं। मीनिमम सपोर्ट प्राइस को धीरे-धीरे कम करिये। यह विकसित देश विकासशील देश को कह रहा है कि आप धीरे-धीरे इसे घटाइये। हम भी उसके बदले एक्सपोर्ट सबसिडी को धीर-धीरे घटायेंगे। इसका अंजाम बहुत बुरा होगा। क्योंकि यूरोपियन कंट्रीज या अमेरिका २५० प्रतिशत सबसिडी अपने किसानों को दे रहा है। यह सबसिडी वह न केवल एक्सपोर्ट पर बल्कि वभिन्न मदों में दे रहा है। वह खुद पैदावार पर २५० प्रतिशत सबसिडी रखेगा और हमें कह रहा है कि आप एम.एस.पी. को पूरा घटाइये। जो एम.एस.पी. ६१० रुपये प्रति क्िंवटल गेहूं का है और साधारण धान का ५३० रुपये प्रति क्िंवटल है, उत्तम किस्म का धान ५६० रुपये प्रति क्िंवटल है, उसे घटाकर हम ४०० रुपये प्रति क्िंवटल पर ले आयेंगे। क्या इससे किसानों को लाभकारी मूल्य मिल जायेगा ? क्या किसानों को समर्थन मूल्य मिल जायेगा ? यह हमारे देश के लिए घातक है, खतरा है। किसानों के पेट पर लात मारने की बात है। खेती ऐसा पेशा है जो अगर घाटे का विषय बन जायेगी तो हमें खेती के लिए दूसरे देश पर निर्भर रहना होगा ।जिस दिन हम खेती के लिए दूसरे देशों पर निर्भर हो जाएंगे, उसी दिन हमारे देश की खुशहाली समाप्त हो जाएगी, हम आर्थिक रूप से पूरी तरह गुलामी की जंजीरों में बंध जाएंगे, और धीरे-धीरे गुलामी आ ही रही है। खेती को बचाने की, कारपोरेट खेती से खेती पर हो रहे हमले तो रोकने की कोशिश सरकार को करनी चाहिए। मैंने इस बात का जिक्र इसलिए किया क्योंकि अंतर्राष्ट्रीय मार्किट में गेहूं का दाम चार-साढ़े चार सौ रुपये प्रति क्िंवटल है और हमारा एम.एस.पी. का दाम ६१० रुपये प्रति क्िंवटल है। इस तरह हम मार्किट में कहां कम्पीट करेंगे? इसलिये हमको शंका है कि विकसित देश चाहते हैं कि तीसरी दुनिया का देश यानी भारत के किसान डोमैस्टिक सपोर्ट को कम कर दें यानी एम.एस.पी. को धीरे-धीरे बंद कर दें। अमरीका आदि का कृषि उत्पादन आसानी से हमारे देश में बिक सके और हिन्दुस्तान इंटरनेशनल मार्किट बन सके। हिन्दुस्तान विदेशी खाद्यान का डम्िंपग ग्राउंड बन जाए, यह उनका नियम है। यह मेरा स्पष्ट संकेत है जो बहुत बड़ा खतरा है। १८३१ hrs.( Dr. Laxmi Narayan Pandeya in the Chair) 

आज देश के ७५ प्रतिशत लोग खेती पर निर्भर करते हैं। वे कहते हैं कि हम एक्सपोर्ट सबसिडी भी हटाएंगे। मैंने इसलिए कहा कि इसे डम्िंपग ग्राउंड न बनने देने के लिए अभी समय है। आपके पास प्रोवीजन है। वित्त मंत्री जी काफी विद्वान हैं, फूड मनिस्टर भी अनुभवी हैं, मुख्य मंत्री भी रहे हैं। आप काउंटर वेलिंग टैक्स लगा सकते हैं। हिन्दुस्तान विदेशी अनाज का डम्िंपग ग्राउंड न बने, उसके लिए आपके पास उपाय है। यदि आप ऐसा नहीं करेंगे तो हिन्दुस्तान के किसानों में हाहाकार मच जाएगा और किसानों के लिए नया संकट उपस्थित हो जाएगा।…( व्यवधान) मैं कह रहा था कि हमारा यूनीफॉर्म इन्फ्रास्ट्रक्चर हो। आज गांवों की क्या स्थिति है। मैं पिछले दिनों मंगरोनी नाम के एक गांव में गया था। वहां एक बच्चा जो चौथी क्लास में पढ़ता था, ब्लड कैंसर से मर गया। वह बहुत तंदुरुस्त था। मैंने पूछा कि ७-८ साल का बच्चा कैसे मर गया। मैं जब पहले गया था तो लोगों ने मुझे स्कूल में उसे दिखाया था। हमने पूछा कि उसे क्या हो गया था तो लोगों ने बताया कि उसे ब्लड कैंसर हो गया था। हमने पूछा कि उसे ब्लड कैंसर कैसे हो गया था। उन्होंने बताया कि वह अपनी जेब में दस-दस गुटखे के पॉकेट रखता था और सुबह-शाम खाता था। उसका असर हो गया। डाक्टरों ने जब टैस्ट किया तो पता लगा कि गुटखा खाने से उसको ब्लड कैंसर हो गया। मैं कहना चाहता हूं कि यह बहुत बड़ी साजिश है। मैं शहर का विरोधी नहीं हूं लेकिन हमारे गांव अमृत पैदा करते हैं, दूध, मक्खन, चावल, गेहूं, फल, सब्जी पैदा करते हैं। किसानों के पास पैसा नहीं होता इसलिए वे अपने बच्चों को शहर भेजते हैं। गांव अमृत भेजते हैं और शहर जहर पैदा करते हैं। गांव में गुटखा, शिखर, राजा खैनी जैसे जहर भेजते हैं, पोलीथीन वाला लिकर भेजते हैं। यह रिश्ता थोड़ा ठीक होना चाहिए। मैं निवेदन करना चाहता हूं कि ऐसी चीजों पर, जो जहर की तरह असर करती हैं, इतना टैक्स लगा दिया जाए ताकि गांवों के बच्चों का नुकसान न हो, उनका स्वास्थ्य बचा रहे। सभापति महोदय : कृपया समाप्त करें। श्री देवेन्द्र प्रसाद यादव : मैं गांवों और शहरों का विरोधी नहीं हूं लेकिन कोई संतुलन होना चाहिए। गांव में अनाज पैदा होता है। गांव धागा पैदा करते हैं और शहरों में कपड़ा बनता है। कितने लोग आत्महत्या कर रहे हैं। जो किसान कैश क्रॉप पैदा करते हैं, धान वाले, चावल वाले किसान आत्म हत्या नहीं कर रहे, हड़ताल जरूर कर रहे हैं। महाराष्ट्र, कर्नाटक वालों से पूछिए। ये कौन से किसान हैं? ये वही किसान हैं जो नकदी फसल पैदा करते हैं ,गन्ना पैदा करते हैं, कपास पैदा करते हैं, रबड़ पैदा करते हैं, ऐसे किसान आज यहां आत्महत्या कर रहे हैं। दुनिया में कहीं भी किसान आत्महत्या नहीं कर रहे हैं। यह सवाल देश के सामने है कि आज हमारा किसान आत्महत्या पर उतारू हो रहा है। सभापति महोदय : अब आप समाप्त करिये। श्री देवेन्द्र प्रसाद यादव : यह हमारे सामने चुनौती है, इस चुनौती का सामना हमको करना चाहिए, ताकि उसको लाभकारी मूल्य मिले ताकि वह आत्महत्या न करे। सभापति महोदय : कृपया अब आप समाप्त करें, आपने सुझाव दे दिये हैं। श्री देवेन्द्र प्रसाद यादव : मैं समाप्त ही करता हूं, आपका आदेश हो गया। मैं अन्त में एक मांग जरूर करता हूं। एक मैंने कहा कि शिखर गुटखा, राज दरबार और लिकर पर टैक्स लगाइये लेकिन आपने लिकर को सस्ता कर दिया है,विदेशी शराब सस्ती हो गई और मिट्टी का तेल महंगा हो गया। लिकर(विदेशी शराब) लैपटॉप कम्प्यूटर और मोबाइल फोन सस्ता हो जायेगा और यूरिया खाद महंगा हो जायेगा, जिससे उत्पादन बढ़ेगा, जिसका आपने दावा किया है कि ६० मलियन टन उत्पादन देता है, उस किसान का फर्टिलाइजर का दाम सीधे-सीधे पूरे तौर पर वापस लीजिए, पूरा रोल बैक कीजिए। फर्टिलाइजर की कीमत पर जो बढ़ोतरी हुई है और मिट्टी के तेल पर जो बढ़ोतरी की है, इस पर हम कोई समझौता नहीं करेंगे, सदन के भीतर ही वित्त मंत्री जी मैं आपसे निवेदन करता हूं, अभी भी समय है, आपके पास फाइनेंस बिल तक का मौका है। यदि इसको आप नहीं करेंगे तो इस प्रतिवाद को हम वापस नहीं लेंगे। हम सभी एलाइज अपनी भाषा बोल चुके हैं, चाहे ममता बनर्जी हों, चाहे टी.डी.पी. हो, चाहे डी.एम.के. हो, सब लोगों ने अपनी राय दी है, इसलिए हम फिर निवेदन करते हैं…( व्यवधान) सब लोग अपनी राय दे चुके हैं। इस फर्टिलाइजर पर कौई समझौता नहीं होगा, चूंकि मिट्टी का तेल गरीबी की रेखा के नीचे रहने वाले जो लोग हैं, वे उसका इस्तेमाल करते हैं। इस देश में गरीबी की रेखा के नीचे ३६ प्रतिशत लोग हैं, लेकिन वित्त मंत्री जी की फीगर में थोड़ा घट गया है, २६ प्रतिशत रह गया है। सभापति महोदय : अब आप समाप्त करें। श्री वाडियार। मैंने उनको बुला लिया है। श्री देवेन्द्र प्रसाद यादव : मैं लास्ट सेंटेंस बोल रहा हूं। MR. CHAIRMAN: You have taken too much time. Please conclude now. श्री देवेन्द्र प्रसाद यादव : ठीक है, मैं आपकी बात से एग्री करता हूं। मैं लास्ट में यही कहना चाहता हूं कि गरीबी की रेखा के नीचे जो लोग मिट्टी का तेल इस्तेमाल कर रहे हैं, जो ३६ परसेण्ट थे, अब उन्हे २६ परसेंट दर्शाया गया है। पता नहीं, प्लानिंग कमीशन ने १९९६-९७ में एक नेशनल सैम्पल सर्वे किया था, लकड़वाला ग्रुप के फार्मूले के आधार पर एक्सपर्ट ग्रुप ने कराया था, सैम्पल सर्वे यहां पता नहीं, उसका फीगर कोई डिपार्टमेंट नहीं देता, वह तो प्लानिंग कमीशन देगा। MR. CHAIRMAN: Please conclude now. Otherwise, I will have to say that your speech would not be recorded. श्री देवेन्द्र प्रसाद यादव : वह योजना आयोग का काम है। गरीबी उन्मूलन नहीं हुआ, रोजगार का अवसर नहीं खुला, क्रयशक्ति नहीं बढ़ी, परचेजिंग पावर नहीं बढ़ी और संख्या घट गई है तो यह मेरी समझ के बाहर है कि बी.पी.एल. का एस्टीमेट कैसे ३६ से २६ परसेंट हो गया और पूरी हम पीठ ठोक रहे हैं कि बड़ी भारी उपलब्धि हो गई। जब गरीबी उन्मूलन नहीं हुआ, पावर्टी एलीवेशन नहीं हुआ, जब गरीबों की क्रयशक्ति नहीं बढ़ी, खरीददारी की ताकत, परचेजिंग पावर नहीं बढ़ी और रोजगार का अवसर नहीं बढ़ा…( व्यवधान) सभापति महोदय : अब आप समाप्त कर दीजिए, अन्यथा मुझे कहना पड़ेगा कि आपकी स्पीच रिकार्ड नहीं होगी। श्री देवेन्द्र प्रसाद यादव : पता नहीं, प्लानिंग कमीशन में यह कैसे हुआ। इन्हीं शब्दों के साथ मैं अपनी बात समाप्त करता हूं। मुंगेर पुल के विषय में तो रघुवंश जी बोले हैं, रघुनाथ जी बोले हैं और मुंगेर पुल का हम भी समर्थन करते हैं। सभापति महोदय : श्री वाडियार जी, मैं आपसे निवेदन करूंगा कि आपको केवल १० मिनट का समय दिया गया है, १० मिनट में आप अपनी बात समाप्त करिये। SHRI VARKALA RADHAKRISHNAN ( CHIRAYINKIL ): Sir, I am on a point of order. MR. CHAIRMAN: Under what Rule? SHRI VARKALA RADHAKRISHNAN : It is under Rule 74. I have received a copy of the Supplementary List of Business for today, 20th March. The proviso of Rule 74 says: The Chair is not informed. I think, the Chair is not aware of it. … (Interruptions) It is scheduled for today. … (Interruptions) Please hear me. Let me conclude.… (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN : I am hearing you. But you can raise the point of order on the subject which we are discussing now. We are not discussing the subject that you are raising. We are now discussing the General Budget. … (Interruptions) SHRI VARKALA RADHAKRISHNAN : No. They cannot bring a Revised List of Business now. … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: I disallow your point of order. … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: No. I disallowed your point of order.… (Interruptions) SHRI VARKALA RADHAKRISHNAN : No. If I ask for quorum, will you agree? … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: No. The subject you are raising is not related to the subject under discussion. … (Interruptions) SHRI VARKALA RADHAKRISHNAN : We are going according to the consensus. … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: I disallowed your point of order. … (Interruptions) SHRI VARKALA RADHAKRISHNAN : They are bringing forward the Revised List of Business only now. … (Interruptions) It is circulated only now. … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: We are now discussing the General Budget. The subject that you are discussing is not before us. … (Interruptions) SHRI VARKALA RADHAKRISHNAN : If I raise the question of quorum, will you agree? … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: I have disallowed your point of order. … (Interruptions) सभापति महोदय : अबश्री वाडियार की स्पीच रिकार्ड की जाएगी।… (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: I have disallowed your point of order.… (Interruptions) SHRI VARKALA RADHAKRISHNAN : You cannot disallow your point of order. … (Interruptions) How can you disallow? … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: I have disallowed it.… (Interruptions) SHRI VARKALA RADHAKRISHNAN : It is my right. I have a right to have two days’ notice. … (Interruptions) Otherwise, if I raise the issue of quorum, will you agree? … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: From the Chair, I have disallowed your point of order. … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: You are a very learned Member. Please take your seat. Please resume your seat now.… (Interruptions) SHRI VARKALA RADHAKRISHNAN : This is a House which is doing business under the Rules of Procedure. … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: Please hear me. A point of order should relate to the business before the House at any point of time. The discussion on the Bill has not been reached till now. Hence, the point of order is ruled out. It is not before us now. We are discussing the General Budget. So, you may please take your seat. … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: I have given my ruling. Please take your seat. Now, Shri Wadiyar. SHRI S.D.N.R. WADIYAR ( MYSORE ): Mr. Chairman, Sir, at the outset, I would like to say that the Budget has to be opposed as it is not growth-oriented and it is anti-farmer and anti-poor. The Minister has tried to paint a rosy picture in his Budget Speech. He has stated that he plans for a second generation of economic reforms and that reforms have to be deepened and taken to the level of the States. He said that he has plans to undertake a strategy of reforms linked to public funding. He has outlined that he should continue with the emphasis on agriculture and food economy; enhance public and private investment in infrastructure; strengthen the financial sector and capital market; deepen and stimulate reform and regulate industrial growth; provide social security; consolidate reform and continue fiscal adjustment both at the Centre and in the States. The Minister, in the Action Taken Report, has highlighted deregulation of control on agricultural products; proposes to amend decontrol of sugar; substantial reduction in span of price control of drugs; amend laws pertaining to revival and winding up of companies; progress in privatisation; implementing expenditure on reforms and amendment to the Companies Act to allow conversion of public companies into private companies. The Finance Minister has claimed that the Government plans‘Kisan ki Aazadi’ and that is its goal. The Minister has also said that he wants to give boost to the third revolution in agricultural diversification and food processing, in the process allowing the cooperatives to be converted into companies. Is the Minister trying to re-introduce a new zamindarisystem? The Finance Minister also plans to improve the rural infrastructure. I would like to say that the rural infrastructure is not just roads but includes water supply, drainage, electricity, village-to-village connectivity, roads within villages and things like that. In short, we can say that there should be planned development of villages. What about schools in the villages? In villages, many schools hardly have one classroom for one standard. Many schools do not even have one classroom for one standard. There are inadequate teachers in the schools. Accommodation for teachers is also lacking as a result it is very difficult to get good teachers. I propose that action may be taken to ensure water supply and rural connectivity by way of roads. The restriction on movement of agricultural products and their storage is being removed. I would like to know from the Minister how is he going to protect the farmers as also the produce from speculators, hoarders and black-marketeers. It is essential to improve the quality of the agricultural produce and achieve the target set for agricultural export. Agricultural research and technology is essential. The Minister has proposed a certain amount of fund to be allotted for agricultural research. The agricultural research and technology is essential to ensure the quality of agricultural produce. It is also essential to increase the quantity of the produce and reduce its cost. The meaning of science and technology is redundant unless the agricultural products are available to the rural people at affordable prices. There is a need for maintaining roads. The Minister has provided Rs.2,500 crore in the current year for maintaining the existing roads apart from Rs.5000 crore which was provided earlier. The need of the hour is that we should provide for metalling of existing roads, maintenance of roads and making new roads. Hardly any provision has been made for roads inside villages. The Finance Minister has provided Rs.164 crore for rural electrification of 80,000 villages which do not have electricity. I would like to know how long it is going to take for us to achieve electrification of the entire rural area. India has to be at par with the other developing countries in terms of its infrastructure. In areas of telecommunication, there has been a tremendous success whereas in the areas of ports and roads the achievement is moderate. In the field of power and railways the situation is rather appalling. A number of rivers flow in our country. I would suggest to the Minister that in consultation with the States, the Central Government can generate electricity using the gravitational flow of rivers. I feel it is cheap to produce hydel power. Therefore, I would request that the Minister of Environment should be given direction to clear such pending projects. I am told that 400 mw of electricity can be generated with Cauvery waters. A number of schemes are pending with the Central Government. Therefore, reforms in the power sector are essential. Sir, one thing is generation and second thing is distribution. A lot of theft of electricity is taking place. I would like to know the plans of the Government for the generation as well as for the distribution. Sir, urban areas have become breeding grounds of anti-social and terrorist elements. The amount of Rs.500 crore which has been allotted is not enough. There are hundreds of large metropolitan cities and towns. Therefore, Rs.500 crore is a peanut for providing amenities in such areas. Most urban areas lack adequate underground drainage system. There is a need for storm water drains, sewage drains, and water treatment plants. We also need efficient and good garbage management schemes. We need all weather roads. We also need flyovers to ease traffic congestion. A cheap and efficient public transport system is very essential. In my opinion, private participation should be invited. Sir, I feel that the interest of the public should be safeguarded at all times; maybe, you can call a number of private organisations to help in these areas. Sir, the Minister has given some incentives to the tourism industry which I feel is quite nice. But I think more could have been done. However, there are some other services which are provided by the hotels. They were earlier covered by the expenditure tax but now they are not covered. A large number of parties, social gatherings, marriages, etc., are conducted in hotels. I feel we should impose expenditure tax on these things. Sir, liberalisation of the capital market in so far as NRIs are concerned, is appreciable. But I do not understand why the Finance Minister has not allowed a corporate with proven track record to invest and set up institutions and universities abroad. The Minister has stated that he wants to introduce crop insurance and that he would ask the Insurance Regulatory Authority to provide a pension scheme for the unorganised sector. Sir, the countries like USA and Australia have very good social security system. Therefore, we should learn from them and apply those schemes here. The proposal regarding health insurance is quite good. The amount of Rs.3000 for indoor patient and Rs. 2000 for outdoor patient in a notified clinic is too less. Last time also I stated that today the most common ailment relate to heart and diabetes and a man going in for his treatment will have to spend anything between Rs.2 lakh and Rs.3 lakh. So, I feel that insurance cover should be equivalent to half of the treatment amount. Therefore, a policy in that direction would be a welcome step. Sir, the Finance Minister has levied 5 per cent surcharge on income tax on certain assessees. Perhaps a small percentage of this can be diverted for the national insurance. It would definitely be worthwhile. I would also request the Minister to consider a National Health Insurance Scheme for covering the entire population. Lastly, I would like to say that the middle class has contributed to the economy. They have also contributed to the stock exchange with the ingenuity and innovative approach. The Finance Minister has planned to hit below their belt by taking away whatever small incentive for investment was there. Taking into account the inflation, the Finance Minister should have increased the taxable slab from 1.5 lakh. I would suggest that he should have gone in for 10 per cent tax between Rs.1.5 lakh and Rs.2.5 lakh; 15 per cent tax between Rs.2.5 lakh and Rs.3.5 lakh; 20 per cent tax between Rs.3.5 lakh and Rs.5 lakh; and 30 per cent tax above Rs.5 lakh of income. The duty levied on agricultural products from 70 per cent to 100 per cent is too less. I feel that we are likely to be flooded with qualitatively better stuff. Therefore, the duty on agricultural products should have been increased to at least 250 per cent. Under the Congress regime the agricultural sector was helped and protected. The Government did not interfere with it. At the present juncture, I feel that some of the steps taken by the Government are detrimental to the interest of farmers and agriculturists of this country. I request the Minister to move with caution and take steps after consulting all the political parties on this aspect. Lastly, I would like to submit that I come from a district which is adjacent to the coffee-growing district. The life-style of the coffee planters used to be one of envy to others. But, today their life is in such a pitiable state that I cannot explain. My colleague Shri Deve Gowda has also made a mention of it. I would definitely feel that some help should be provided to the coffee growers. I conclude my speech by calling upon this House to reject this Budget. श्रीमती जयश्री बैनर्जी ( जबलपुर ) :माननीय सभापति जी, मैं सन् २००२ और २००३ के बजट का समर्थन करती हूं। बजट देश की अर्थव्यवस्था और आर्थिक समृद्धि का एक आईना होता है। यहां पर बहुत सारी चर्चाएं हुई हैं। मैं वित्त मंत्री जी को धन्यवाद देती हूं कि इन्होंने भविष्य को देखते हुए एक लोंग टर्म प्रोग्राम बना कर इस बजट को पेश किया है। आज चारों तरफ जिस तरह बेरोजगारी बढ़ी हुई है, युवा वर्ग परेशान होकर घूमते हैं, उसे काम मिले इसलिए बजट मे कुछ ऐसी व्यवस्था की गई है, जिसमें आगे चल कर बेरोजगारी कम होगी। सब्सिडी कम करना - सब्सिडी कम करना एक बाध्यता है। यहां यह कहना बड़ा मुश्किल है कि किस के लिए हुआ, क्यों हुआ, बहुत सारी बातें कही गईं। लेकिन वास्तविकता यह है कि दसवें वित्त आयोग का जो कार्यक्रम है, उसमें सब्सिडी कम करने के बारे में भी चर्चा हुई है। आठ प्रतिशत सब्सिडी दी जा रही है और वित्तीय घाटा कम करने के लिए २५ प्रतिशत जो ब्याज दे रहे हैं, उसे भी कम करना है। वित्तीय व्यवस्था ठीक करने के लिए दोनों ही चीजें हैं - सब्सिडी कम करना और वित्त घाटा कम करना बहुत आवश्यक है। आपके सामने नान प्लान और प्लान है। नान प्लान में २६५ हजार २८२ करोड़ रुपए का प्लान है, अब इसे २९६८०९ करोड़ बढ़ाया गया है। अब यह कहा गया है कि इसे कम करेंगे। नान प्लान, फिजूलखर्ची कम होने से देश के विकास की दिशा में आर्थिक स्थिति बढ़ती है और उसमें काम बनता है। प्लान में ९९,१५४ था, जिसे बढ़ा कर ११३,५०० किया है। इसे और बढ़ाया जा सकता है, जिसमें डेवलपमेंट हो सकता है और रोजगार का कार्य हो सकता है। सभापति महोदय, मैं वित्त मंत्री जी को धन्यवाद देती हूं कि इन्होंने कृषि प्रधान देश में कृषकों को फायदा देने के लिए बहुत सारे कार्य किए हैं। इन्होंने २०० करोड़ रुपया इस बार बढ़ाया है। यहां क्रेडिट कार्ड की बहुत बात हो रही थी, यह बात सही है कि आज किसान क्रेडिट कार्ड लेकर बड़े-बड़े उद्योगपतियों के सामने खड़े होकर बैंक में यह कह सकता है कि मेरे पास भी क्रेडिट कार्ड है, मुझे भी लोन मिलना चाहिए। आज आपने उनकी समृद्धि के लिए काम किया है, उसके लिए आप बधाई के पात्र हैं। बिजली की दिशा में भी ८०० करोड़ रुपया बढ़ाया गया है। ट्रांसपोर्टेशन में २००० करोड़ रुपए दिए गए, कम्युनिकेशन में एक हजार और सोशल सर्विस में २९,३७६ करोड़ रुपए दिए गए हैं, 

 19.00 hrs. 

जिससे महिलाओं की शिक्षा के बारे में भी सहयोग मिलेगा, सैल्फ-हैल्प-ग्रूप को भी सहयोग मिलेगा। सर्व-शिक्षा विद्यालय व बालिकाओं को सहयोग मिलेगा। ग्रामीण क्षेत्रों में जहां शिक्षा प्राप्त करने के बाद उनको पोषण आहार की कमी रहती है, पोषण आहार मिलने से उनको सहयोग मिलेगा। जिला प्राइमरी एजुकेशन में भी कार्य बढ़ेगा और इस दिशा में वे बधाई के पात्र हैं क्योंकि ग्रामीण क्षेत्रों में उन्होंने इस बारे में सहयोग किया है। हमारे मध्य प्रदेश में जो राशि दी जाती है उसका पूरा उपयोग नहीं होता है। मध्य प्रदेश आदिवासी बहुल क्षेत्र है इसलिए यह राशि कुछ और बढाई जाए। जयप्रकाश रोजगार योजना भी शुरू की गयी है जिससे बेरोजगारों को काम मिलेगा। रूरल वाटर सप्लाई में २४००० करोड़ रुपया दिया गया है। पीने के पानी और रोड के बारे में ग्रामीण क्षेत्रों की तरफ जो उन्होंने ध्यान दिया है उसके लिए भी बधाई देती हूं। पीने का पानी ग्रामीण महिलाओं को बहुत दूर से लाना पड़ता है और इसके लिए रूरल वाटर सप्लाई में जो उन्होंने सहयोग दिया है, उसके लिए भी बधाई देना चाहती हूं। इसी तरह से प्रधान मंत्री ग्राम सड़क योजना के द्वारा गांवों के विकास के बारे में सरकार ने जो सोचा है उसके लिए बधाई देना चाहती हूं। उस तरफ से बातें तो बहुत की गयी हैं लेकिन इन ५० सालों में वे क्या करते रहे और आज ग्रामीण विकास की दुहाई दे रहे हैं। जब मैं ग्रामीण क्षेत्रों में जाती हूं तो वे बताते हैं कि पिछले ५० सालों में उन्होंने किसी सांसद को नहीं देखा है। आज भी वहां शौच की, पानी की व्यवस्था नहीं है। इस बारे में ध्यान देने के लिए मैं प्रधान मंत्री जी को बधाई देती हूं कि उन्होंने पानी के बारे में, रोड के बारे में ध्यान दिया जिससे शहर सड़कों के माध्यम से गांव के साथ जुड़ सकें और गांव का विकास हो सके। माननीय वित्त मंत्री जी से अनुरोध है कि फिक्स डिपोजिट में रेट ऑफ इंट्रेस्ट को बढ़ाया जाए क्योंकि बुढापे के लिए लोग फिक्स डिपोजिट करते हैं। इससे उन्हें लाभ और खुशी होगी। कर्मचारियों में आयकर को भी कम किया जाए। कर्मचारी आज परेशान है और वे सोचते हैं कि आय कर हमारे ऊपर भी आ गया है, इसलिए इसके ऊपर भी उन्हें सोचना चाहिए। एक्साइज डयूटी बढ़ाई जाए और शराब के दाम जितना चाहे बढ़ा दो, ये कम नहीं होने चाहिए। गैस का दाम जो कम किया है उसके लिए भी मैं बधाई देती हूं और आशा करती हूं कि उसको और भी कम किया जाएगा क्योंकि गैस आज गांव-गांव में पहुंच गयी है। माननीय वित्त मंत्री जी, आप व्यवस्था सुधारने का जो काम कर रहे हैं मैं उसकी सराहना करती हूं और आशा करती हूं कि जो बैंक घाटे में चल रहे हैं या बंद हो गये हैं उनको भी आप राहत दिलाएंगे। मध्य प्रदेश के जबलपुर के बारे में मैं कहना चाहूंगी कि नर्मदा नदी के बहते हुए भी लोग पानी के लिए प्यासे बैठे हैं। पानी का पैसा उनको मिलता नहीं है और अगर मिलता भी है तो उसका ठीक से उपयोग नहीं होता है। इस तरफ भी आप ध्यान देंगे, ऐसी आशा मैं करती हूं। बजट बहुत अच्छा है और इसके दूरगामी परिणाम होंगे। माननीय वित्त मंत्री जी ने बड़ी सूझबूझ से बजट रखा है, इसके लिए बहुत-बहुत धन्यवाद। मैं इस बजट का समर्थन करते हुए अपनी बात समाप्त करती हूं। SHRI SURESH KURUP ( KOTTAYAM ): Respected Chairman, Sir, the Budget presented by our hon. Finance Minister is quite on expected lines. Like his earlier Budgets, the present one also fails to address any of the problems faced by our economy. In essence it is a continuation of the policies of liberalisation, privatisation, and globalisation followed by this Government. The Budget neither delivers higher growth or employment nor it makes any concerted attack on poverty. In fact, it is quite evident that the economic policies reflected in this year’s Budget along with the earlier ones are decisively rejected by the people of this country. The results of the recently held Assembly elections stand testimony to this. It seems that the hon. Finance Minister derives a sort of pleasure in subsidising the rich and burdening the poor. The Budget is nothing but an assault on the poor since it had hiked prices of almost all the essential commodities, like kerosene, urea, sugar, LPG cylinder and even postal rates. The entire episode of announcing an increase in the price of LPG cylinder by Rs. 40 and later bringing it down by Rs. 20, bowing to the pressures of the NDA allies, practically gives no relief to the sections that are affected. He, while giving foreign companies a huge tax reduction in their profits from 48 per cent to 40 per cent, leaves no stone unturned in raising direct tax revenues, especially from the salaried segment of the population by raising the tax from them and also by lowering the interest on small scale deposits. The salaried middle class is always there to get the slap on the face in every Budget as every one knows it is the easiest way to mop up resources. They are a set of people who can be brought to tax net easily without any complications. They are the set of people who can be butchered and sacrificed as they are incapable of making any organised resistance. I would have appreciated the Finance Minister if he had shown the courage to collect taxes, over the years, from those huge defaulters or those who are amassing wealth. But he has not shown the political will to do that. The extent of mismanagement of the economy is evident from the steep fall in tax collections. The total tax collected in 2001-2002 was Rs. 30,000 crore, less than what was anticipated in the last year’s Budget. Of this Rs. 10,000 crore is the amount which would have been transferred to the State Governments. This means that State Governments are deprived of the lion’s share of the fiscal assistance due to them from the Centre which, of course, has added to their fiscal turmoil. More over, the Budget imposes certain conditions on the States. The State Governments are asked to adopt World Bank and IMF type reforms. Sir, Rs. 12,000 crore is being provided as reform-linked assistance to States and another Rs. 2,500 crore for policy reforms in sectors which are constraining growth and development. For the first time in the history of our country, a major chunk of statutory Central transfers are being linked to the willingness of the States to implement the economic reforms agenda of the Central Government. This is a very dangerous trend. This cuts at the root of our federal structure and it is unconstitutional. Those State Governments, which may have serious differences of opinion regarding the policies pursued by the Central Government, are going to be discriminated against. Mr. Minister, you are twisting the hands of the State Governments to fall in line with your policies. Statutory transfers, which every State Government is entitled to get, should not be linked to any policy directive from the Union Government. I would like to know the opinion of the allies. The DMK has been advocating for State autonomy for long. I would like to know the opinion of the TDP. Also, the AIADMK is waiting on the wings to jump into the bandwagon. If you look at the shortfall in revenue, you can see the major decline in customs tariffs. In these years of liberalisation, as we all know, the most substantial reductions have been effected in import taxes and customs duties. Though increased trade and thereby increased customs revenue were expected yet the huge shortfall in customs duty collection itself shows that the reduction in duty was in no way accompanied by increase in trade. This will be the same in the coming year too. In the current year, the Government has resorted to a range of imposts. Sir, Rs.39,107 crore is expected as tax revenue. Of these, the increase in excise duty would be a burden on all sections of the population including the rich and the poor alike and would be a real jolt for the poor and the middle class. But even this enhanced burden of taxation will not help the Government to tide over the revenue shortfall which it had confronted last year too. The expected Rs.39,107 crore is not going to come through.… (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN : Please conclude now. Your party is having only four minutes. You have already taken more than ten minutes. SHRI SURESH KURUP : All the other Members have taken their own time. I will conclude in a few minutes.… (Interruptions) As I said earlier, the expected Rs.39,107 crore is not going to come through. The failure of the Central Government in revenue generation and the unmindful borrowal from the open market at higher rates of interest will definitely make the situation worse. Our godowns are overflowing as the food stocks have now touched a record level of more than 60 million tonnes. Everybody know that. The Government should utilise the food it has at its hand to launch a massive Food for Work Programme which would help in building capital assets in rural areas and give an impetus to economic growth. It would have definitely provided employment to the rural poor, decreased pressure on FCI on holding huge stocks and given a much-needed demand boost to the stagnant economy. Instead of doing that, the Budget has favoured foreign capital and large domestic capital and opened India’s economy to transnational capital without any hindrance. As I have pointed out earlier, the people decisively rejected these policies in every election that took place after this Government came to power. So, I would request the Finance Minister to see the writing on the wall. Even after making tall claims on reduction in poverty, though based on dubious statistics, it is a fact that the income disparities are increasing year after year. In a country where Mr. Dhirubai Ambani gets Rs.8.85 crore as his annual salary, the Finance Minister should at least devote a minute to the poor who are struggling to make both ends meet. The poor are at a loss to understand why they are not eligible to get food even though foodgrains are rotting in the FCI godowns. I too fail to understand why they are not getting it. This Government, based on highly communalised ideology, cannot deliver anything to this country or to its economy. On the one hand, they are preaching globalisation, and, on the other hand, taking the country to medieval ages. A country’s economy can prosper only if the law and order situation is under control and every section of the community feels that its interests are safeguarded by the Government. Now, this is a Government which actively patronises those elements which are out to destroy the secular fabric of the country. In a country where Gujarat like situation occur with the blessings and connivance of the authorities concerned, the economy will stagnate and will never take off. The Finance Minister should think for one moment that if Infosys Headquarters were in Ahmedabad, what would have been the international repercussions. Everyone knows that the development of economy is intimately connected with the political situation inside the country. Sir, this Government which actively encourages communal ideology all over the country and systematically attacks the minorities, cannot develop this economy. What is the point in building a house if there is no decent planet to put it on? That is all I wanted to say. श्री सुकदेव पासवान ( अररिया ): सभापति महोदय, आपने मुझे बजट पर बोलने का मौका दिया, इसके लिए मैं आपको धन्यवाद देता हूं। कृषि क्षेत्र में हमारी श्रम शक्ति का लगभग ६४ प्रतिशत हिस्सा है, जिससे लोग आजीविका प्राप्त करते हैं और सकल घरेलू उत्पाद का लगभग २६ प्रतिशत हिस्सा है। दुनिया में दलहन की पैदावार में सबसे अधिक क्षेत्र के हिसाब से भारत का सर्वप्रथम स्थान है। जितना दलहन भारत में पैदा होता है, जितनी इसकी खेती होती है, विश्व में किसी भी देश में दलहन की इतनी खेती नहीं होती है। भारत एक ऐसा देश है, जिसने कपास का संकर किस्म का बीज पैदा किया है। विश्व में भारत पहला देश है जिसने कपास का संकर किस्म का बीज पैदा किया है। इस लोक सभा के अधिकांश सदस्य निश्चित रूप से किसान परिवारों से आये हैं और जितने वक्ता यहां बोले हैं, सबने किसानों के संबंध में बोला है। माननीय वित्त मंत्री महोदय ने कहा है कि हमारा देश अब कृषि वविधीकरण, खाद और पशु क्रान्ति के लिए तैयार है। इसके लिए नीति परिवर्तन, कृषि अनुसंधान एवं विस्तार पर नये सिरे से जोर देने की ऐसे परिवेश में आवश्यकता है। उन्नत ग्रामीण संरक्षा अनिवार्य है। आजादी हमारी नीति का मुख्य लक्ष्य है। हम माननीय मंत्री महोदय से जानना चाहते हैं कि देश में अभी किसानों की जो स्थिति है, जिसके लिए ६४ हजार करोड़ रुपये ऋण लक्षित स्तर में ७५ करोड़ रुपये देने का उन्होंने काम किया है। सभापति महोदय, किसानों को जो ऋण मिलता है, वह आज किसी से छिपा हुआ नहीं है कि जब किसान बैंक जाता है, ब्लाक जाता है तो किसान की खेती समाप्त हो जाती है, उसके बाद उसे ऋण मिलता है। उस ऋण के मिलने में किसान को कितनी परेशानी होती है, उसे कितनी रिश्वत देनी पड़ती है, अधिकांश सासंद जो ग्रामीण इलाकों से आते हैं, निश्चित रूप से उन्हें सब कुछ पता है। इसलिए हम आपके माध्यम से माननीय मंत्री जी से निवेदन करना चाहेंगे कि ऐसी व्यवस्था की जाए कि किसान को फसल लगाने से पहले ऋण मिल जाए, तभी किसान सही मायनो में सही समय पर खेती कर सकता है और उसके अधिक उत्पादन करने से देश को लाभ होगा। मैं कहना चाहता हूं कि आज किसानों को देश में सबसे अधिक कठिनाइयों का सामना करना पड़ता है। अन्य कोई ऐसा संस्थान और उद्योग नहीं है, जिसमें लोगों को किसानों की तरह परेशानी उठानी पड़े। जब किसान की फसल का समय आता है और जब वह फसल लेकर मंडी में जाता है, उस वक्त सही मायनों में फसल लेने वाला कोई नहीं होता है। हम माननीय सदस्य लोक सभा में भी आवाज़ उठाते हैं कि बिहार में क्रय केन्द्र न खुलने से किसानों का धान व्यापारी मनमाने ढंग से खरीदते हैं। हमारे पूर्व वक्ताओं ने भी कहा कि कुछ दिन बाद, होली के बाद नई फसल गेहूँ की आएगी लेकिन जो धान की स्थिति देश में है और खासकर बिहार में है, उसी तरह गेहूँ बेचने के लिए भी किसान जब मंडी में जाएंगे तो उसे गेहूँ का उचित दाम नहीं मिल पाएगा। महोदय, इंदिरा आवास योजना में आज से पांच-सात साल पहले गरीबों को मकान बनाने के लिए २० हजार रुपये मिलते थे। जब २० हजार रुपये की स्वीकृति दी गई थी, उस वक्त सीमेन्ट की कीमत सौ रुपये से नीचे थी, लोहे की कीमत कम थी, मज़दूरी भी कम थी लेकिन अब सबकी कीमतें बढ़ गईं हैं, लेकिन अभी भी गरीबों को आवास बनाने के लिए २० हजार रुपये ही इस योजना में मिलते हैं। कहीं देहात में शौचालय भी बनता है तो उसकी लागत कम से कम २५ हजार रुपये आती है। गांव में हम एम.पी.लैड स्कीम से शौचालय का प्रस्ताव देते हैं तो उसका प्राक्कलन २५ हजार रुपये से कम नहीं होता और गरीब के घर का प्राक्कलन भी २० हजार रुपये है। हम वित्त मंत्री से आग्रह करेंगे कि इंदिरा आवास योजना में गरीबों को मकान बनाने के लिए दी जाने वाली राशि बढ़ाकर कम से कम ५० हजार रुपये करनी चाहिए ताकि समाज के अंतिम तबके का आदमी उसका लाभ उठा सके। सभापति महोदय, आज देश की जनसंख्या सौ करोड़ से ज्यादा है लेकिन सही मायनों में किसी भी सरकार ने उसको रोकने के लिए ठोस उपाय नहीं किये। बेरोज़गारी की समस्या दिन प्रतदिन बढ़ रही है और जहां-जहां सरकारी संस्थाएं हैं, उसमें छंटनी हो रही है। जब लोग बेरोज़गार होंगे तो निश्चित रूप से खुराफ़ात की ओर मुखातिब होंगे और गलत रास्ते पर जाएंगे। किसानों का जब सवाल उठता है तो आप उर्वरक की कीमतें ही देख लीजिए। कोई भी सरकार रही हो, १९९१ से १९९६ तक नरसिम्हाराव जी की सरकार रही, उस वक्त भी खाद की कीमतें बढ़ीं। खाद की कीमत बढ़ने से किसानों की फसल की कीमत नहीं बढ़ती है। यूरिया, पोटाश और कैल्शियम सब तरह की खादों की कीमतें बढ़ गई हैं पर जिस अनुपात में किसानों की फसल की कीमत बढ़नी चाहिए वह नहीं बढ़ती है। मैं पैट्रोलियम मंत्री राम नाईक जी को धन्यवाद दूँगा कि जिन्होंने एल.पी.जी. सैलेन्डर का दाम २० रुपये घटाया है, लेकिन देश में और खास तौर से मेरे क्षेत्र में ९० प्रतिशत से ज्यादा लोग मिट्टी का तेल जलाते हैं। ९० प्रतिशत लोगों के लिए जब बजट आता है तो मिट्टी के तेल की कीमत बढ़ जाती है और गांव में जो १०-२० रुपया मज़दूरी करने वाले लोग हैं, उनको ब्लैक में मिट्टी का तेल खरीदना पड़ता है। हम उनके लिए आग्रह करेंगे कि मंत्री जी निश्चित रूप से इस पर ध्यान देकर उसकी कीमत घटाएँ। दाम बढ़ाने चाहिए टीवी और फ्रिज के, सिगरेट और शराब के तथा विलासिता संबंधी वस्तुओं के। निश्चित रूप से इनके दाम सौ से २०० प्रतिशत बढ़ा दें और जो गरीब किसान तथा मध्यम वर्ग के लोगों के उपयोग की वस्तुएं हैं, उनकी कीमतें घटानी चाहिए। सभापति महोदय, मुझे स्मरण है कि जब वी.पी. सिंह की सरकार थी, देवेगौड़ा जी की सरकार थी, उस वक्त भी किसानों को बहुत सारी राहत देने की योजनाएं प्रारंभ की गई थीं और बजट में किसानों द्वारा ट्रैक्टर खरीदने हेतु लिए गए ऋणों को माफ करने का ऐलान किया गया था, जिससे बहुत सारे किसानों को फायदा हुआ था। मैं उम्मीद रखता हूं कि वाजपेयी जी की सरकार में किसानों को निश्चित रूप से राहत मिलेगी और किसान निश्चित रूप से आगे बढ़ेंगे। सभापति महोदय, मैं कहना चाहता हूं कि अनुसूचित जाति एवं जनजाति के कल्याण हेतु सामाजिक न्याय और अधिकारिता मंत्रालय के बजट में ७९२ करोड़ रुपए से बढ़ाकर ८८९ करोड़ रुपए किए गए हैं। अनुसूचित जाति एवं अनुसूचित जनजाति और अन्य पिछड़े वर्गों के सामाजिक विकास एवं जीवन में सुधार लाने हेतु और उच्च शिक्षा में सुधार हेतु धनराशि बढ़ाई गई है। छात्रों को छात्रवृत्ति देने, बैंक की स्थापना तथा अनुसूचित जाति एवं अनुसूचित जनजाति विकास के लिए वित्त विकास निगम के तहत सहायता देने के लिए आवश्यकताओं की पूर्ति हेतु २१ प्रतिशत धनराशि बढ़ाकर २९० करोड़ रुपए की गई है। सभापति महोदय, गांव में अनुसूचित जाति एवं अनुसूचित जनजाति तथा गरीब तबकों के बच्चे ६० से ७० प्रतिशत तक स्कूल नहीं जाते हैं। बिहार में आज से २५-३० साल पहले जो स्कूल बने वही चल रहे हैं और नए स्कूल नहीं खुले हैं। हो सकता है, सभापति महोदय, कि आपके यहां मध्य प्रदेश में नए स्कूल खुले हों, लेकिन बिहार में नहीं खुले हैं। इसलिए वहां अनुसूचित जाति और जनजाति के बच्चों के लिए तो नए स्कूल होने का सवाल ही नहीं उठता है। जब इन जातियों के बच्चों हेतु स्कूल ही नहीं हैं, तो वे बच्चे कैसे पढ़ पाएंगे। जब स्कूल और शिक्षक नहीं हैं, तो वे किस प्रकार से पढ़ पाएंगे। इसलिए मैं निवेदन करना चाहता हूं कि जहां अनुसूचित जाति, जनजाति, कमजोर वर्ग और अकलीयत के इलाके हैं वहां स्कूल खुलने चाहिए ताकि वहां के बच्चे पढ़ सकें। सभापति महोदय, अंत में, मैं बिहार के मुंगेर में गंगा नदी पर रेल-सह-सड़क पुल के निर्माण की मांग करता हूं और माननीय वित्त मंत्री जी से निवेदन करना चाहता हूं कि जब वे अपना उत्तर दें, तो निश्चित रूप से मुंगेर में गंगा पर रेल एवं सड़क पुल के बारे में अपने विचारों से सदन को अवगत कराने की कृपा करें। इतना ही कह कर मैं बजट का समर्थन करते हुए बैठना चाहता हूं। सभापति महोदय, आपने मुझे बोलने का समय दिया, इसके लिए मैं आपका धन्यवाद करता हूं। श्री जोवाकिम बखला ( अलीपुरद्वारस ): माननीय सभापति महोदय, आम बजट वर्ष २००२-२००३ जिसे माननीय वित्त मंत्री जी ने पेश किया है, उस पर बोलने के लिए मैं खड़ा हुआ हूं। मैं समझता हूं कि वित्त मंत्री जी द्वारा प्रस्तुत इस बजट में कोई दिशा नहीं है। यह दिशाहीन बजट है और गरीब, वृद्ध और किसान विरोधी यह बजट है। इससे किसानों की कोई भलाई होगी, इस बात की मैं उम्मीद नहीं रखता हूं। सरकार ने लोगों की आवश्यकताओं की चीजों, जैसे कैरोसीन ऑयल, जिसका गरीब लोग सबसे ज्यादा व्यवहार करते हैं, गरीब लोग उपयोग करते हैं, देश के ८० प्रतिशत लोग इसका व्यवहार करते हैं, उसके दाम बढ़ाए गए हैं। इससे ऐसा लगता है कि यह सरकार गरीबों के पक्ष में काम नहीं करना चाहती है बल्कि ऐसा लगता है कि आई.एम.एफ., डब्ल्यू.टी.ओ. और बहुराष्ट्रीय कंपनियों के दबाव में आकर अपनी आर्थिक नीतियां निर्धारित करती है। १९.२९ hrs. 

( Dr.Raguvansh Prasad Singh in the Chair) 

सभापति महोदय, यह सरकार बहुराष्ट्रीय कंपनियों के दबाव में आकर उनके अनुसार अपनी नीतियों को बनाकर देशवासियों को डिक्टेट कर रही है। उस तरह की नीतियों को हमारे देश पर यह सरकार लागू करना चाहती है, जो ठीक नहीं है। आज हमारे किसानों की हालत बहुत गंभीर है। जिन किसानों को सस्ती बिजली चाहिए, यातायात के साधन चाहिए, रहने के लिए घर चाहिए, सस्ती दर पर बीज चाहिए, उन किसानों को वह नहीं मिल रहा है। जो उर्वरक मिलने चाहिए, वे नहीं मिल रहे हैं। आज यूरिया की और एम.ओ.पी. की जो कीमतें है, उन कीमतों में बढ़ोतरी करके यह सरकार किसान विरोधी कानून लागू करना चाहती है। इसका मैं पुरजोर विरोध करता हूं। मैं मांग करता हूं कि उर्वरकों की कीमतों में जो वृद्धि की जा रही है, उस पर पुनर्विचार करके उसे वापिस लिया जाये। मैं यह भी मांग करता हूं कि जैसे इस सरकार के सहयोगी दलों के माननीय सदस्यों ने बजट में जो प्रावधान रखे गये हैं, उनका विरोध यहां पर किया, उसी तरह मैं भी उन्हीं की तरह यह मांग करता हूं कि मिट्टी के तेल की कीमतों में जो बढ़ोतरी की गई है, उसको वापिस लिया जाये। आज गांव में जो प्रधानमंत्री ग्राम सड़क योजना का प्रावधान रखा गया है, उसका इम्प्लीमैंटेशन ठीक से नहीं हो रहा है। गांव के लोगों की उन्नति के लिए जो भी प्रावधान रखे गये हैं, बजट में जो भी घोषणाएं की जाती हैं, उसको कार्यान्वित नहीं कर पाते हैं। माननीय प्रधान मंत्री जी ने यह घोषणा की थी कि एक करोड़ लोगों को नौकरी दी जायेगी लेकिन आज जो बेरोजगार लड़के-लड़कियां हैं, उनकी हालत बहुत गंभीर है। बेरोजगारी की समस्या बढ़ती ही जा रही है। बेरोजगार लोगों को काम न देकर उसके बदले ४२ हजार लोगों को फालतू करार देकर नौकरी से निकालने का काम किया जा रहा है। मैं इसका भी विरोध करता हूं। डिसइन्वेस्टमैंट के नाम पर जो सार्वजिक इकाई मुनाफा कमाती हैं, उन सार्वजनिक इकाइयों को पानी के दाम में बेचने का काम यह सरकार कर रही है। यह सिर्फ इसलिए हो रहा है क्योंकि इन्होंने जो टारगेट रखा है, वह टारगेट प्राप्त कर सकें। यह हमारे देश के हित में नहीं है। कहीं ऐसा न हो कि यह सरकार जिस तरह से नीतियां बनाती जा रही है, आर्थिक ढांचे को खराब करते हुए जिस तरह से आर्थिक नीति बना रही है, उससे ऐसा लगता है कि हमारा देश कहीं आर्थिक गुलामी के चंगुल में न चला जाये। इसलिए मैं इस सरकार को सावधान करता हूं कि अभी भी समय है। आप अपनी नीतियों की समीक्षा कीजिए। आपने जो नीतियां बनाई हैं, और जो आर्थिक नीतियां बनाने का काम कर रहे हैं, उसकी समीक्षा कीजिए अन्यथा हमारे देश को गंभीर परिस्थितियों से गुजरना पड़ेगा और हमारे देश के विकास की जो गति होनी चाहिए, वह गति धीमी पड़ जायेगी। मुझे तो ऐसा लगता है कि आपकी नीयत ऐसी है कि आप सिर्फ बहुराष्ट्रीय कम्पनियां को ही मदद देना चाहते हैं। यह सरकार चाहती है कि बहुराष्ट्रीय कम्पनियां हमारे देश में आयें और हमारे देश में जितनी भी सार्वजनिक इकाइयां हैं, उन पर वे अधिकार कर लें और धीरे-धीरे हमारी पूंजी पर उनका अधिकार हो जाये। बहुराष्ट्रीय कम्पनियों को ज्यादा मुनाफा मिले, इस तरह का कानून यह सरकार लागू करना चाहती है लेकिन हमारे देश में जो गरीब जनता है, आम जनता है, उनके पक्ष में जो नीति बननी चाहिए, वह नहीं बन रही है। इससे पूरी जनता को निराशा हो रही है। मैं चाहता हूं कि यह सरकार ज्यादा दिन न चले क्योंकि यह सरकार गरीब विरोधी है, किसान विरोधी है। आर्थिक द्ृष्टि से अमीर और गरीब के बीच में जो खाई है, वह बढ़ती ही जा रही है। यह गैर बराबरी का सिलसिला कब तक चलता रहेगा ? आज स्वाधीनता मिले हुए ५४-५५ साल हो गये हैं लेकिन आज भी अमीर और गरीब के बीच में जो खाई है, वह पटती नजर नहीं आ रही है। इसलिए नजर नहीं आ रही है क्योंकि कांग्रेस के जमाने में जो आर्थिक नीति बनाई गई, आज एन.डी.ए. की सरकार भारतीय जनता पार्टी के नेतृत्व में उसी तरह का कानून बना रही है। इसलिए मुझे ऐसा लगता है कि गरीबी और अमीरी के बीच जो खाई बनी हुई है, वह बनी रहेगी। मैं इस तरह की आर्थिक नीति का विरोध करता हूं और चाहता हूं कि इसमें परिवर्तन हो। गरीब किसानों के पक्ष में कानून बनाना चाहिए ताकि गरीब किसान की उन्नति हो। जब उनकी जिन्दगी में सुधार होगा तभी हमारा देश आगे बढ़ सकता है अन्यथा वह विदेशी कम्पनियों के हाथों में चला जाएगा और हमारा आर्थिक विकास रुक जाएगा। इसलिए मैं इस सरकार की आर्थिक नीति की आलोचना करते हुए मांग करता हूं कि आप गरीब लोगों के विषय में चिन्ता कीजिए, ऐसी आर्थिक नीति बनाइए ताकि गरीबी और अमीरी की खाई दूर हो सके। एक अच्छा और संतुलित समाज बनाने का प्रयास करें। इन्हीं बातों को कहते हुए मैं अपना वक्तव्य समाप्त करता हूं। श्रीमती कैलाशो देवी ( कुरूक्षेत्र ): आदरणीय सभापति जी, मैं वित्त वर्ष २००२-०३ के प्रस्तावित केन्द्रीय बजट के विषय में अपने विचार व्यक्त करने के लिए खड़ी हुई हूं। पूर्व नौकरशाह वित्त मंत्री जी ने, नौकरशाही की परम्परा का ही निर्वहन करते हुए देश की जनता के समक्ष जो बजट प्रस्तुत किया है, इसके लिए मैं उन्हें बधाई देती हूं क्योंकि आज देश जिन हालात से गुजर रहा है, देश को अंदरूनी और बाहरी आतंकवाद से जूझना पड़ रहा है, महंगाई, गरीबी, बेरोजगारी और भ्रष्टाचार जैसी समस्याएं भी आज देश के समक्ष मुंह बाए खड़ी हैं, ऐसे हालात में इससे बेहतर बजट बनाया तो जा सकता था लेकिन उसके लिए जो जोखिम उठाने पड़ते, उनसे वित्त मंत्री जी ने परहेज किया है। हमारा देश कृषि प्रधान है। हमारे देश की अर्थव्यवस्था कृषि पर टिकी हुई है। हमारे देश में कृषि न केवल रोजी-रोटी और रोजगार का जरिया है बल्कि यह उद्योग जगत का भी आधार स्तम्भ है। मौजूदा बजट में कृषि के त्वरित आधुनिकीकरण के लिए बजट आबंटन को ६८४ करोड़ रुपये से बढ़ा कर ७७५ करोड़ रुपये किए गए हैं जो सरकार के लिए एक प्रशंसनीय कदम है। ग्रामीण रोजगार के नए कार्यक्रम - ग्रामीण क्षेत्र में रोजगार को बढ़ावा देने के लिए जयप्रकाश रोजगार गारंटी योजना लागू की गई है जिससे ग्रामीण क्षेत्रों में एक नई उम्मीद की किरण जागी है, जैसे कोल्ड स्टोरेज का निर्माण, किसान क्रैडिट कार्ड। किसान फसल बीमा योजना के लिए नए निगम स्थापित करने के लिए ८०० करोड़ रुपये और किसानों के विकास की दिशा में इस योजना के लिए जो सबसिडी दी जाएगी, वह किसान की प्रगति की दिशा में एक उल्लेखनीय कदम सिद्ध होगा। त्वरित सिंचाई लाभ कार्यक्रम में ८०० करोड़ रुपये की एकमुश्त बढ़ोत्तरी और कृषि अनुसंधान के लिए चालू वर्ष में ९१ करोड़ रुपये का प्रावधान करना, कृषि क्षेत्रों से संबंधित निर्यात क्षेत्रों को बढ़ावा देना, सरकार की प्रतिबद्धता को दर्शाता है कि सरकार किसानों की प्रगति के लिए प्रतिबद्ध है। सड़कें, बिजली, पानी और दूरसंचार व्यवस्था के मूलभूत ढांचे को मजबूत करने के लिए वित्त मंत्री जी ने ज्यादा से ज्यादा धन उपलब्ध कराने का जो संकल्प दोहराया है, संसद के अंदर उनके वक्तव्य से इस बात की उम्मीद जगी है कि शायद इस क्षेत्र में प्रगति और विकास की गति तेज होगी। चालू वर्ष में दस हजार करोड़ रुपये सरकारी खर्चों में कटौती की गई है। यह भी मितव्ययिता की तरफ एक अच्छा कदम है। इन सबके बावजूद २००२-०३ को बजट के बारे में मैं बेखटके और डंके की चोट पर कहना चाहूंगी कि इस बजट को बनाने में दिमाग का भरपूर इस्तेमाल किया गया है। मगर दिल से इसका कोई सरोकार नहीं है, क्योंकि इधर जब से सुधारवादी केन्द्रित बजट बनने लगे हैं, तब से लोगों को इस बात में रुचि घट गई है कि किस चीज के दाम बढ़ रहे हैं और किस चीज के दाम कम हो रहे हैं। इस सब के बावजूद भी लोगों को मौजूदा बजट में बड़ी उम्मीदें थीं और लोगों को यह विश्वास था कि शायद इस वर्ष के बजट में जो मंदी से कराहते हुए आम आदमी के आंसू पोंछने का इन्तजाम किया जायेगा। हमारे ग्रामीण क्षेत्र में एक कहावत है कि गुड़ न दे, मगर गुड़ जैसी बात तो कर - लेकिन वित्त मंत्री जी ने उर्वरकों की कीमत बढ़ाकर और उन पर मिलने वाली सब्सिडी कम करके गरीब किसान के मुंह की मिठास छीन ली है। कैरोसीन, डाक सामग्री और गैस इत्यादि की कीमतें बढ़ाकर आम आदमी की जेब पर बोझ डाल दिया गया है। इनकी बढ़ी हुए कीमतें तुरन्त वापस ली जानी चाहिए। आम आदमी को राहत पहुंचाने के लिए यह एक अच्छा कदम होगा। वित्त मंत्री जी को इस पर विचार करना चाहिए। मैं अपनी पार्टी की ओर से इन बढ़ी हुई कीमतों को वापस लेने की सरकार से पुरजोर अपील करती हूं। आयकर छूट सीमा देखिये, उस पर छूट की सीमा २० प्रतिशत से घटाकर १० प्रतिशत कर दी। कम से कम यदि इस सरकार को बढ़ानी नहीं थी तो कम से कम घटानी तो नहीं चाहिए थी, २० प्रतिशत ही रहने दी जाती। माननीय वित्त मंत्री जी ने ज्यादा खाद्यान्न उत्पादन को समूचे देश की अर्थव्यवस्था के लिए लाभकारी न बताते हुए गहरी चिन्ता व्यक्त की है और गैर-खाद्यान्न या नकदी फसलों के उत्पादन पर जोर देने के लिए कहा गया है। जब तक किसानो को इनके बारे में प्रेरित नहीं किया जायेगा, किसान को इस बारे में प्रोत्साहन नहीं दिया जायेगा और वे तमाम सुविधाएं किसान को मुहैया नहीं कराई जाएंगी, जो कि इसके लिए जरूरी हैं तो मैं समझती हूं कि यह एक दिवास्वप्न के अलावा कुछ भी कारगर साबित नहीं होगा। यदि कोई किसान फूलों या सब्जी की खेती करेगा तो जब तक मार्केट में उठाने का उसका उचित प्रबन्ध नहीं किया जायेगा, क्योंकि यह एक ऐसी खेती है, जो जल्दी खराब हो जाती है। इसी प्रकार की और भी अनेकों प्रकार की किस्में देश के वभिन्न स्टेट्स में हो सकती हैं। मैं माननीय वित्त मंत्री जी से यह पुरजोर अपील करना चाहूंगी कि वे यदि इस बजट से सम्बन्धित जो-जो सांसदों ने सुझाव दिये हैं, उन पर विचार करके इसमें यथासम्भव परिवर्तन करें तो उनकी बड़ी मेहरबानी होगी। मैं वित्त मंत्री जी से यह भी कहना चाहूंगी कि यदि और थोड़ा जोखिम उठाया जाता और कुछ ठोस निर्णय लिए होते तो देश की अर्थव्यवस्था को और अच्छी तरह से बखूबी पटरी पर लाया जा सकता था और आम आदमी को ज्यादा राहत प्रदान की जा सकती थी। वर्षों से कुछ ऐसी बड़ी-बड़ी परियोजनाएं लम्बित पड़ी हैं, जैसे सरदार सरोवर डैम, एस.वाई.एल. लिंक नहर, जिसके बारे में अभी कोर्ट ने भी फैसला दिया है, दादुपुर नलवी नहर, पानीपत रिफाइनरी, यमुनानगर सुपर थर्मल पावर प्लाण्ट, समूचे देश में ऐसी अनेकों परियोजनाएं हैं, जिनको कि सरकारों की द्ृढ़ इच्छाशक्ति के अभाव में पंचवर्षीय योजना को ५० वर्षीय योजनाओं में तब्दील कर दिया गया। इनको यदि पूरा किया जाये तो लाखों बेरोजगारों को रोजगार मिल सकता है और वाटर लेविल ऊपर आने से किसान को बिजली सस्ती और ज्यादा मिल सकती है। किसान आत्मनिर्भर बनेगा, उसकी परचेजिंग पावर बढ़ेगी तो हमारे छोटे और मझोले उद्योग-धंधे फेल होने से बचेंगे, वे फलेंगे-फूलेंगे और देश बहुराष्ट्रीय कम्पनियों के चंगुल से बचेगा, जो इस देश को गुलामी की कगार पर ले जाने को आतुर हैं। जो आज भारत के मार्केट में, बड़े बाजार में इण्टरनेशनल अपनी चीजें बेचने के लिए देख रही हैं। इस प्रकार की परियोजनाओं को तो पूंजी का रिस्क लेकर भी पूरा किया जाना चाहिए, क्योंकि इनसे उत्पादन लाभ त्वरित प्राप्त होता है और त्वरित उत्पादन लाभ को बाद में सारा घाटा और पूंजी का सारा रिस्क ब्याज सहित पूरा किया जा सकता है। काम के बदले अनाज जैसी योजनाएं भी अबी तक पूरी तरह से क्या रत्ती भर भी, मैं तो कहती हूं कि लागू नहीं की गईं। एक तरफ तो कहा जा रहा है कि सरकार के पास लाखों टन अनाज बफर स्टाक के रूप में पड़ा है और वह अनाज सड़ रहा है, लेकिन गरीब के पेट तक नहीं जा रहा है। ये गरीब बेचारे दिन के दिन बड़े-बड़े डैम खड़े कर सकते हैं, बड़ी-बड़ी नहरें खोद सकतेे हैं और वे बदले में सिर्फ अपना पेट भरना चाहते हैं, इसलिए उनको काम के बदले अनाज मिले तो ऐसी योजनाओं को तत्परता से लागू करना होगा। हमारे किसानों ने इस देश को आत्मनिर्भर बनाया, अन्न भंडारों को खचाखच भर दिया, लेकिन उसको क्या मिला? वह बदले में आज आत्महत्या करने पर मजबूर हो रहा है। किसान के लिए अमीर और गरीब सभी बराबर हैं, वह सभी का पेट भरता है। इसलिए उसको आत्मनिर्भर बनाने की कोशिश होनी चाहिए। अभी तक कुल दो करोड़ किसानों को किसान क्रेडिट कार्ड इश्यू हुए हैं, जबकि देश में ४० करोड़ किसान हैं। इसलिए सबको किसान क्रेडिट कार्ड देने चाहिए। फसल बीमा योजना तत्काल लागू हो। गेहूं का सीजन आ रहा है इसलिए उसका समर्थन मूल्य अविलम्ब ७०० रुपए प्रति क्िंवटल घोषित किया जाना चाहिए। मैं वित्त मंत्री जी से कहूंगी कि सभी सदस्यों के सुझाव लेकर इस बजट को सर्वजन हिताय और सर्वजन सुखाय बनाने का प्रयास करें। श्री मणिशंकर अय्यर ( मयिलादुतुरई ): प्रस्ताव यह है कि मैडम को वित्त मंत्री बना दें। SHRI BIR SINGH MAHATO ( PURULIA ): Hon. Chairman, Sir, the hon. Minister of Finance has presented a rosy picture through his Budget Speech on the 28th February but The Economic Survey reveals the bleak picture of the economic performance of the Government. The unprecedented industrial slowdown has been admitted in The Economic Survey. The Government has miserably failed to address the burning problems facing the country, be it industrial slowdown, be it unemployment or be it agriculture. Everywhere, the Government has miserably failed. The most affected victims, through this Budget, are the middle class and the lower class people. The price hike on LPG, kerosene and postal stamps and the interest rate cut on small savings would destabilise the family budget of the common man. The middle class will also get further impoverished through the five per cent income tax surcharge on the grounds of defence expenditure. The subsidy cut on urea, DAP and MOP will further aggravate the problems already confronting the farmers who are on the brink of suicide. At the same time, the Government has announced a reduction in tax rates for foreign companies by eight per cent. The fiscal deficit of Rs.1,35,524 crore, which is 5.3 per cent of the GDP is an alarming indication. The country is paying one-fourth of its receipts as interest and it is borrowing 29 paise and paying 25 paise as interest. It is more than the total Plan expenditure of the Centre, the States and the Union Territories. The Government has, again, put a target of Rs.12,000 crore from disinvestments, as they had done in the previous year. The Government had, in the previous year, actually achieved only 42 per cent of the target, that is, Rs.5,000 crore. Therefore, the fiscal deficit would go up further. The Budget has not taken into account the urgent need for revival of sick industries and the revival programmes for fertiliser units, refineries, and jute and textile units. On the other hand, the Government has de-reserved the small-scale units. The reduction in customs duties will also injure the small-scale industries. The new employment programme like Lok Nayak Jayaprakash Narayan Rozgar Yojana is another paper tiger. No concrete plan and programme is visible in this programme. The hon. Prime Minister, while dealing with his resource mobilisation, has followed the traditional route. He has conveniently ignored the recent findings of the experts’ report that 40 per cent of India’s GDP is unaccounted black money. The Government has taken no concrete steps as suggested to unearth the black money. The next shocking revelation in the Budget is that the internal debt in the country has crossed Rs.10 lakh crore. The external debt is Rs.68,519 crore and the internal debt is Rs.10,21,739 crore. Therefore, this Budget is not growth-oriented. It is directionless and anti-poor. So, I oppose this Budget. डॉ.रामकृष्ण कुसमरिया ( दमोह ) : सभापति महोदय, वित्त मंत्री जी ने देश के लिए बड़ा ही संतुलित, दूरदर्शी और जनहितकारी बजट प्रस्तुत किया है, मैं उसका समर्थन करता हूं। हमारा देश जो हमारे गांवों में बसा हुआ है, इसमें इंफ्रास्ट्रक्चर तैयार करने के लिए प्रधान मंत्री सड़क योजना और ग्रामीण विकास के लिए जिसके कारण हम उस किसान के लिए बार-बार कहते हैं कि किसान की हालत खराब है, उसके आने जाने के लिए सड़क, उसकी फसलों को रखने के लिए वेअरहाउसेज, कोल्ड स्टोरेज इत्यादि ये तमाम इंफ्रास्ट्रक्चर तैयार करके निश्चित रूप से दूरगामी इसका परिणाम किसान के लिए हितकारी होगा। मैं निवेदन करना चाहता हूं कि इस बजट के विषय में अनेक बातें सामने आई हैं लेकिन दो-एक बातों के विषय में ही मैं अपनी बात रखूंगा। पर्यटन के विषय में पचास प्रतिशत अतरिक्त प्रावधान किया गया है। हमारे क्षेत्र बुंदेलखंड में अनेक सुंदर स्थल हैं। उसका एक पैकेज तैयार किया जा सकता है और उसके द्वारा इस इलाके को विकास की गति दी जा सकती है। विश्व प्रसिद्ध खजुराहो, ओरछा, कालिंजर का फोर्ट, पन्ना जिले में चौमुखनाथ, पांडव प्रताप, नेशनल पार्क, मगरमच्छ की सेंक्चुअरी, नदी तट पर स्थित चौमुखनाथ, पशुपतिनाथ का मंदिर और भगवान शिव की जो मूर्ति है और उसी के पास सिद्धनाथ, बेड़ा घाट, जटा शंकर, कुंडलपुर, नैना देवी इत्यादि तमाम एतिहासिक और धार्मिक स्थलों का यदि विकास किया जाये, सड़कों का विकास किया जाये तो निश्चित रूप से आपने जो प्रावधान किया है, उसके अन्तर्गत हमारे भारत के सबसे पिछड़े हुए स्थल बुंदेलखंड का विकास किया जा सकता है। इसी तरह बीना में एक रिफाइनरी थी, जिसकी स्थापना ओमान के साथ होनी थी लेकिन विलम्ब होने के कारण ओमान ने उससे संबंध-विच्छेद कर लिया।पर्यावरण से संबंधित उसकी परमीशन मिल चुकी है और गुजरात से पाइप-लाइन की परमीशन भी मिल चुकी है। मेरी आपसे प्रार्थना है कि बुन्देलखण्ड के विकास में इस दिशा में कदम उठाने से एक नई कड़ी जुडेगी। महोदय, इसी तरह से मेरे निर्वाचन क्षेत्र में ओलावृष्टि से काफी नुकसान हुआ है। हम आपको धन्यवाद देंगे, आपने पिछली बार फसल बीमा योजना लागू की थी, लेकिन राज्य सरकारों ने फसल बीमा योजना लागू नहीं की है। मेरी आपसे प्रार्थना है कि किसानों को राज्य सरकारों के भाग्य भरोसे न छोड़ा जाए। इसके लिए आपने अलग इंश्योरेंस की व्यवस्था की है। इंश्योरेंस कराकर किसानों की प्राकृतिक आपदाओं के कारण जो फसले बरबाद होती हैं और जिसके कारण उनको आत्म-हत्या करनी पड़ती है, इससे छुटकारा मिलेगा। मेरी प्रार्थना है कि इसको सख्ती से लागू किया जाए। दूसरा निवेदन है, मध्य प्रदेश में प्रधान मंत्री सड़क योजना में केन्द्र से भरपूर राशि दी गई है। लेकिन समाचार आय़ा है, लगभग ८०० करोड़ रुपए लैप्स होने की स्थिति में है। इस राशि का उपयोग नहीं किया गया है। इसलिए मेरी प्रार्थना है कि इसकी मोनिटरिंग की व्यवस्था आपको करनी होगी कि राज्य सरकारें इस राशि का उपयोग करें और साथ ही जिस मद में उपयोग के लिए पैसा दिया गया है, उसी मद में पैसे का उपयोग होना चाहिए। इसके साथ ही मैं यह भी कहना चाहता हूं, जो भी योजनायें यहां से राज्यों को जाती है, उनमें सांसदों की कोई भागीदारी नहीं है। आपके सांसदों का सम्मान बढ़े, जो केन्द्र की योजनायें हैं, उनमें उनकी भागीदारी हो, उनको उद्घाटन करने में सम्मानजनक रूप से बुलाया जाए, तो निश्चित रूप से योजनाओं का प्रसार होगा, प्रचार होगा और लोगों को केन्द्र द्वारा उठाए गए कामों की जानकारी मिलेगी। अंत में, मैं एक बात कह कर अपनी बात समाप्त करूंगा। किसानों के विकास की दिशा में हम अनदेखी नहीं कर सकते हैं। किसानों द्वारा खेती में जो चीजें उपयोग में लाई जाती हैं, जैसे, बीज, खाद, बिजली आदि, उनका ख्याल रखा जाए, जिससे उत्पादन अधिक से अधिक हो सके। इन शब्दों के साथ, प्रस्तुत बजट का समर्थन करते हुए, मैं अपनी बात समाप्त करता हूं। सभापति महोदय : बजट पर सात सदस्यों ने अपने विचार रखने हैं। सदन की सहमति हो, तो एक घन्टे का समय बढ़ा दिया जाए। कुछ माननीय सदस्य : जी, हां। सभापति महोदय : सभा की सहमति से एक घन्टे का समय बढ़ा दिया गया। श्री अधीर चौधरी . SHRI ADHIR CHOWDHARY ( BERHAMPORE, WEST BENGAL ): Thank you Mr. Chairman. Sir, the hon. Minister of Finance has already unveiled his Budget proposals which is fifth feat in a row. No doubt, it is but a glaring feat of one’s career as being the Finance Minister of India. However, the Budget is replete with economic ad hocism and spasmodic impulses in an apparent bid to stimulate the economy. The hon. Minister of Finance has resorted to a slew of harsh measures which have been affecting all sections of our country. Therefore, the Budget speech has evoked sheer pessimism and a sense of insecurity. 20.00 hrs. 

Sir, by blowing the flute like Hamline, he has tried in vain to convince us that everything is going hunky dory, but the reality depicts on the contrary. How will he be remembered in the history of Indian economy will be determined according to the quality of life and according to the economic sinews that we are enjoying during his tenure. I think, he prefers to be recognised as a Keynes of Indian economy. Therefore, Sir, he has adopted such measures at the cost of economic sovereignty of our republic, only to be blessed profusely and applauded lavishly by the World Bank and IMF mandarins. However, he deserves to get credit that during his tenure, as per the Human Development Index, India is now at rank 115. It was at 126th rank in the previous year. However, it is a far cry from Sri Lanka which stands at rank 81. As per the power parity purchasing, India stands as the fourth largest economy in the world. However, this may water one’s mouth, but cannot fill the stomach of the poor people of our country. Sir, he claims in his Budget that economic fundamentals remain strong. He has cited the FOREX reserves of US $ 50 billion and a comfortable inflation rate of 1.1 per cent. May I ask hon. Finance Minister whether a robust FOREX reserve and a comfortable inflation rate can be treated as panacea of all economic ills in India? Sir, China holds FOREX reserves of US $ 212 billion and even Hong Kong has FOREX reserves of US $ 80 billion. Sir, it is a high-cost reserve. Sir, the syndrome of South-East Asian economic crisis is still vivid in our minds. May I ask the hon. Finance Minister whether India is going to introduce current account convertibility in the near future? Sir, I am worried about the fact that the value of our rupee is falling sharply. It is a free fall of our rupee. Sir, what is to be considered is whether it is a devolution or depreciation in a clandestine manner or not. Sir, the BJP Government always favours strong value of rupee. Now, the value of our rupee is 49.85 against one dollar. It may help export lobbies, but we have serious trade imbalances. Therefore, I am asking the hon. Finance Minister whether free falling of the value of the Indian rupee will be healthier for our economy or not. Sir, the per capita income of our people is also declining. From the previous year, it has now decreased by 3.5 per cent. As far as consumption is concerned, the consumer market has also fallen. It is now at a historical low at 2.9 per cent in comparison to 5.3 per cent in the previous year. As per the data released by the Reserve Bank of India, our external debt stands, at the end of June, at US $ 98.3 billion. The multilateral debt, exempting IMF in the total debt, is now increasing at the rate of 31.6 per cent. Commercial borrowing is also increasing at the rate of 24.4 per cent. The total debt, including internal and external, now stands at Rs. 15,12,497.91 crore. It is more than 71 per cent of our total GDP. Forty per cent of our GDP is still unaccounted black money. Therefore, Sir, our economy is heading for a debt trap, and now we are heading for an economic inertia. Sir, when our relations with Pakistan is getting tense, when both armies of Pakistan and India were facing an eyeball to eyeball position, at that time, the capital expenditure for the Army was merely just Rs. 21,441 crore. Our Army is clamouring for modernisation, advanced jet trainers, AWACS, and modern radar system. All are regarded as imperatives for our Army. I would request the hon. Finance Minister to exempt the Army from the security surcharge because they are already offering blood for the safety and security of our country. Sir, as far as agriculture sector is concerned, it is also showing a jejune performance. Our industry is growing at a low ebb of 2.3 per cent. On the one hand, our fiscal deficit is growing, now it stands at 5.3 per cent, on the other hand, our inflation is at a low ebb, that is, 1.1 per cent. However, the people of Orissa are consuming mango kernels to survive themselves. Therefore, Sir, the Government has now perceived that only secondary and tertiary sectors cannot help our economy. They are now concentrating on agriculture sector, but it has already been too late because time and space dimension is a serious matter, as far as the economy is concerned. Now we can only hope because hope is the physician of every miserable in India at this present economic juncture. SHRI G.M. BANATWALLA ( PONNANI ): Mr. Chairman, Sir, to begin with, I would like to draw the attention of the Government to the most pathetic socio-economic condition of the minorities, particularly the Muslims, and the need for substantial, adequate crash programme for the educational and economic development of the Muslims particularly and other minorities. Sir, as I make this demand for a crash programme for the development of minorities, no doubt, I have a sense of frustration in view of the colossal destruction that the Muslim minority faces and suffers during the anti-minority communal violence. Nevertheless, it must be realised that all these factors further reinforce the need for taking effective measures in this regard. It must be realised that any group or section that lags behind in the matter of educational and economic development becomes a burden on the nation and none would like anyone to become such a burden. Therefore, there is a need for a crash programme for the development of the minorities, particularly the Muslims. Sir, we have this very dismal picture of consistent and persistent decline in the socio-economic conditions of the Muslims. Theper capita income of the Muslims is hardly Rs.3678. It is just the same as the per capita income of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes which are 3504 and 3237 respectively. The over all per capita income in case of all the citizens is 4485 with the Hindus at 4514. The situation needs a crash programme for the educational and economic development of the minorities. Of course, I know that there are certain measures and schemes being implemented by certain Ministries. But then they are neither adequate nor do the benefits actually reach the minorities in full measure. Sir, we have the Maulana Azad Educational Foundation. What is the Corpus Fund of this organisation? It is a paltry sum of Rs. 70 crore for the entire nation. There is a need for Budgetary allocation to raise the Corpus Fund to a substantial figure. Similarly, there is the Minorities Financial Development Corporation. It has still not received its full Corpus. When it was established it was envisaged that it would have a sum of Rs. 500 crore as its Corpus. Today it has hardly a sum of Rs. 125 crore as its Corpus. There is a need for not only providing the corpus but also providing for a substantial increase in the Corpus Fund and the amount should be given by the Central Government. Sir, there are a few traditional occupations of the minorities. There is need for the development in the spheres of these traditional occupations. A Commission or an Expert team can be appointed in order to study the situation and for suggesting measures for the development in the spheres of the traditional occupations of the minorities including the artisans. Sir, in the case of banks and financial institutions, specific targets in credit programmes have to be laid down for the minorities and this must be properly monitored. I know that the banks are required to file certain specific returns in this respect. But if we study those returns we find that the column for the target fixed for the supply of credit to the minorities remains blank… (Interruptions) Sir, these are only the introductory points and I am still to come to the Budget. I would cover those points as quickly and as briefly as possible. The Finance Minister claims that the Budget is for consolidating, widening and deepening reforms. There is a determination to go ahead with the second generation reforms. But we have to first see the impact of the first generation reforms. We find that they have miserably failed in accelerating the growth of economy. They have failed in achieving a higher growth rate. By the second half of the 90s, the average annual rate of growth had fallen to less than that recorded in 80s. What was missing in the package of economy of the first generation reforms will have to be provided in the package of second generation reforms. We all know that growth in Indian economy is constrained mostly by lack of demand. This is quite obvious from the accumulated stocks of foodgrains, unutilised capacity in industry, vigorous sales promotion programmes and all. Mr. Chairman, Sir, it is necessary that the second generation economic reforms should address not merely to the supply side but also the demand side to stimulate the demand. On the contrary, we have measures spelt out in the Budget which will curb demand. We have proposed measures like a whopping Rs.10,500 crore to be raised as additional tax revenue. It is one of highest mobilisations through tax revenue in the recent years. The cut in small savings rate would create difficulty for small investors, for senior citizens and others. Re-imposition of the dividend tax, a five per cent surcharge on the income tax, lowering the benefit of tax rebate under Section 88, all these measures would curb the demand. They reduce the income available in the hands of individuals. Instead of demand being stimulated we are imposing a curb on it. There is failure to raise the minimum tax exemption limit too, which results in increase in the taxation burden on the common man. Increase in LPG price, increase in the price of kerosene, increase in postal rates, cut in fertiliser subsidy, increase in the price of sugar sold through ration shops, all these measures will have an adverse affect on demand. I, therefore, would request the Government to reconsider these measures. These measures will have to be rolled back fully. I will conclude by saying that the thrust of the budgetary policy is on taxing the middle-class people. The thrust is on favouring multinationals; the thrust is on giving tax benefits to foreign companies. Tax on corporates is reduced from 48 per cent to 40 per cent. The thrust is on opening up India to multinationals. This is at the cost of Indian economy. The Budget fails in effectively dealing with stagnation in agriculture, to deal with stagnation in industry, to deal with the growing unemployment, and to stem recession in demand, which are the characteristics of our economy. These matters require serious consideration at the hands of the Government. SHRI P.C. THOMAS ( MUVATTUPUZHA ): Due to constraints of time, I will refer only to some points. In view of the Budget, as many of the hon. Members pointed out, most difficult situation is going to arise to the normal people or the poor people because of the rise in prices of kerosene, fertiliser, postal rates, etc. These may be considered for rollback. I would urge upon the hon. Finance Minister to declare that some changes have been finalised in this regard. With regard to agriculture, I am happy that agricultural diversification and food processing have been given a special thrust. Rural infrastructure as well as removal of procedural rigidity, easy credit for agricultural loans for agriculturists are some of the measures which are envisaged, to give real freedom to the farmers as has been envisaged in this Budget. The most important aspect to be looked into is to see how the farmer can be empowered by giving a better price for his produce. That must be the thrust of implementation aspect of this Budget. The relief of up to Rs.25,000 is going to be enhanced to Rs.50,000 and it is a welcome step. But so far, many of the banks have not even received any letter till date regarding the relief of up to Rs.25,000. This has to be looked into. I will now turn to one or two points which relate directly to Kerala because that have not been addressed much in his Budget speech. With regard to tea and coffee, I am happy that the import duty has been raised. For tea, the excise duty has been reduced from Rs.2 to Re.1. Due to the very very difficult situation the tea farmers are facing, I would urge and request the hon. Finance Minister to think of a whole diminution of excise duty. Secondly, I would like to say something about rubber. Rubber is the one field which the Finance Minister has touched in this Budget. But unfortunately, the normal farmer who is producing the natural rubber is not going to get the full benefit of it because the normal farmer makes rubber sheets which is called dried rubber. This dried rubber is the one which is being used by the tyre manufacturers. The tyre manufacturers somehow manage somewhere and they see to it that the import duty on smoke rubber sheet is not increased. But for the normal rubber it has been increased. So, it may be felt, on a cursory look, that the farmer is going to benefit out of it. If the normal farmer is to get benefit out of it, he should get the benefit by way of import duty on smoke rubber sheet which is the form in which it is being made by the normal farmer. So, I would urge upon the Finance Minister to do something in this regard. I am sure that there may be some constraints because of the bound duty which has been fixed. If that is so, I would urge upon the Finance Minister to explain why and how we have to get out of this situation and also what steps the Government intends to take in this regard, if at all it intends to take something. Export has been given a very good thrust as far as agricultural exports are concerned. Constraints may be there because of the WTO, with regard to export subsidies. But as per the agreements on subsidies and counterveiling measures, ASCM, the developing countries with a per capita income of less than 1,000 dollars can give export subsidy until they obtain 3.25 per cent growth in exports. I am sure, we are much below the 3.25 per cent global export percentage and therefore, I would urge upon the Finance Minister that subsidies in this respect have to be given and considered, and also the agricultural exports have to be increased. 20.25 hrs (Mr. Deputy-Speaker in the Chair) 

I am sure that as far as agricultural exports are concerned I would say this. We have coconuts in many parts of India; many States produce coconuts, including Lakshadweep. Sir, coconut is one such produce where by processing and by finding a proper market we can get very good income. As per the statistics available in the Coconut Development Board, 5,000 industries can be set up based on coconut and 5,000 workers could get employment out of it. So, I would submit that some impetus has to be given to crops like rubber, tea, coffee, aracunt, cashew nut and such other crops which are not generally mentioned when we speak of agriculture. It may also include paddy and other agricultural produce which are normally mentioned. I would like to submit that these may also be considered and something may be done in this regard. In the fishery sector I would like to submit that the Finance Minister should declare some benefits to the fishermen who are in real doldrums. Lastly, there has been some statement with regard to our traditional medicine. I would like to submit and urge upon the Finance Minister that we must have an all India centre with full facility for ourAyurvedic system. Just like the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, which is a centre for Allopathy, we should have a centre for Ayurvedicas well as Homeopathy. I hope the hon. Minister will consider these things while implementing his Budget. SHRI K.H. MUNIYAPPA ( KOLAR ): Thank you Mr. Deputy Speaker, Sir, for giving me an opportunity to speak on the Budget for the year 2002-03, presented by the hon. Finance Minister. It shows the extent of anti-people, anti-farmer policies adopted by the NDA Government. I do not want to go into the details of the economic growth rate and such other things. I would say that it is totally anti to the farmers. It could be of no help to the common people of this country. Though this Government has never been helpful to the farmers, it was hoped that the farming community would be benefited by this Budget. The hon. Finance Minister is thinking of the creamy layer among the farmers who are just 0.5 per cent of the total farmers. Since creamy layer has already established itself, there is no need for the Government to support them. I suggest that Rs.10,000 crore Revolving Fund may be established to take care of the farmers who are suffering huge crop loss due to untimely rains, drought situation and also due to unstability in the prices of the agricultural products. The State of Karnataka is facing a serious problem in sale of surplus milk production. The Government has mentioned about the amendment of the Milk and Milk Products Control Order. This amendment may be a disadvantage to a State like Karnataka and other major milk producing States. The State Government is coming to their help. With regard to the Kisan Credit Cards, I would like to say that the farmers belonging to the Scheduled Caste and the Scheduled Tribe communities are not able to pay the monthly premium. I suggest that their premium may be written off. The main problem of the farmers in India is fluctuations in the prices of the agricultural products. Poor farmers are investing huge amounts on agriculture anticipating profits but due to this unstableness of prices they are losing lakhs of rupees. Therefore, there are cases of suicides by the farmers. The Government has to protect the farmers. The Government has proposed to set up food processing units where there is no potential production of fruits like mangoes. I would suggest that such units may be set up in areas where there is potential production of such fruits. Regarding agricultural extension and research, I would like to say that the practical experience of the farmers should be considered. With regard to drinking water, I would like to say that during the Congress Government at the Centre from 1991-95, three districts were identified under the Rajiv Gandhi Drinking Water Mission. These three districts are in three States of Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka. The Government provided Rs.10 crore for each State. But that scheme has not been implemented. It is kept in the cold storage. I would like to know as to when it is going to be implemented. A number of areas are without any drinking water facility and the Government is silent on it. Now, summer season has already come. Therefore, we have to solve the water problem. Sir, I would request that other rivers should be linked with Ganga and Mahanadi. The linking of rivers would save around 125 districts. But they are not taking care of the water problem. They are spending huge amounts in other areas but they are not solving this problem permanently. Sir, the late Shrimati Indira Gandhi started Regional Rural Banks. It was created to give money to the farmers on no profit no loss basis. It was created to help the poor and marginal farmers and agricultural labour. Now, they are going to close it down. It is being shifted to the cities. Sir, I feel that it will not serve the purpose for which it was created. Another important area is the social justice They have not provided even one or two per cent amount of the total allocation to this sector. They are not properly utilising the funds. Sir, I have suggested in the Consultative Committee meetings also that they should start Navodaya Schools like institutions to help the poor people. * It is unfortunate that NDA has appointed a full fledged Minister for disinvestments, the very concept of disinvestments has been misinterpreted by this Government. The intention of Disinvestment was to sell or divert loss making organisations to profit making ones. But this Government has started selling highly profit making industries also. Unfortunately you are not sparing flagship organisations like heritage hotels. Any Government cannot be a businessman, because Government have some social obligations, we have to fulfil them. Moreover the sale of some establishments are so shady deals there is no transparency in it. When Shri Ananth Kumar was Minister in charge of Tourism, he said in Banagalore that at any cost Bangalore Ashoka will not be sold, but within 4 to 5 months it was sold for just 47 crores (approximately). Let the Minister answer me whether it is possible to purchase such a property for that amount in such a place. Therefore, I request the HOn"ble Prime Minister to intervene in the matter keeping in view of social obligations such as employees problems and their heritage status etc. It is time to stop sale of the such prestigious institutions at the cost of Country"s heritage and culture. If profit-making is your only criteria, then adopt strategies such as change of management, leasing of the establishment, voluntary retirement of inefficient employees etc. 

* Laid on the Table. In the same way, I have been requesting the Government to save BGML-KGF as thousands of employees are jobless. Therefore this is the high time to think about this. Therefore, I request the Government to try for leasing of mines to those interested parties on time bound payment basis. There is a good example of two PSUs – BEML and Kudremukh. In the same way instead of appointing IAS officers to the organisation who do not know ground reality, government should appoint a technocrat or an officer who has good knowledge in that particular field may be useful to bring up the organisation from red. For Social Justice and Empowerment Ministry, the amount allocated to the Ministry is not satisfactory. Therefore, I would request you to increase the allocation to the department. I would like to suggest the following steps to improve the social states of SC/ST people: Stop cheap popularity based programmes; Give trust to impart employment based studies or the studies which can provide livelihood to SC/ST students; Stop educating in traditional methods, i.e., making graduates of unemployment; Give proper training to SC/ST students in district level to those interested students who wish to take up UPSC examination and who are unable to go to capital cities due to financial inability. Give trust on basic education in rural areas so that they can compete with the Urban students.I would like to conclude with a suggestion to go back to Gandhian advice, this is the high time to remember Gandhiji, who have taught us to make villages self-sufficient. Therefore, we have to stop the growth of urban areas, one fine day they will explode because of lack of basic facilities like water, sanitation, and major problems like pollution, law and order. Finally, we have to follow China in the field of reforms, we cannot live on illusion any longer, therefore, Government should think of population control, we have to evolve consensus in the matter and a time bound programme should be framed for the benefit of this country. With these words I conclude. SHRI K. FRANCIS GEORGE ( IDUKKI ): Sir, due to paucity of time, I will confine myself to the proposals that have been made in the agricultural sector. Sir, the Finance Minister in his Budget Speech has very specifically said that he intends to give freedom to the farmers. He has said that the freedom of the farmers is the overwhelming goal of our policy. I am sorry to say that all of us, the kisans of this country are a bit disappointed after going through the proposal. Sir, in our country we produce cash crops like tea, coffee, rubber, pepper, cardamom, etc. The Finance Minister has not applied his mind to the long standing demand of the farmers, especially the cash crop cultivating farmers. He has raised the duty on tea and coffee to hundred per cent. Sir, what exactly is the position of tea and coffee in this country. Now almost all the tea estates are being closed down. One kilogram of tea fetches just Rs.45 and its cost of production is Rs.65. One kilogram of coffee fetches just Rs.8 but the cost of production will be naturally five to ten times of the actual price that the farmer gets. Large scale imports are going on from Sri Lanka at a very nominal rate of 11.5 per cent under the Indo-Sri Lanka Agreement for tea and that too of a very inferior quality. That tea is being mixed with our superior quality tea, with the result, the price of our tea is crashing everyday. Sir, lakhs and lakhs of workers are becoming unemployed and many tea estates are closing down. So, we are facing a very serious situation. The wages of workers are being cut. So, we should have raised the duty to at least 150 per cent or 200 per cent. Sir, under WTO Agreement, we can raise the duty up to 300 per cent. But the Finance Minister raised it just to 100 per cent for these two items with great difficulty. Sir, as has been mentioned by Shri Thomas, apparently it looks as if the duty on the natural rubber has been raised to 70 per cent. But out of ten lakh rubber farmers, 99 per cent are small and marginal farmers who produce natural rubber sheet. Now, the benefit of 70 per cent comes only to natural rubber latex. How is a rubber sheet made? I doubt whether the hon. Minister knows the process. Apparently the duty on natural rubber sheet has been kept at 25 per cent on the plea that it is an industrial product. They think that there is some processing that takes place when the rubber sheet is made. We merely add water and formic acid to the natural rubber latex. We all do it at our homes. I am a rubber farmer and I own rubber trees. We just add formic acid and water to the natural rubber latex and overnight it turns into a rectangular lump. This is dried and pressed. All this work is done in the case of a small farmer by his wife and kids. There is no industrial activity involved in producing natural rubber sheet. Why do you keep this duty on natural rubber at 25%, which is the main ingredient of tyre? We have to suspect that it is done at the pressure of the tyre manufacturers’ lobby in this country. There is a provision in the WTO Agreement itself that for a distressed agricultural commodity we can raise the customs duty to 150 per cent. I think I am right. The Finance Minister should clarify this point. If it is possible to raise it to 50 per cent, I most humbly request on behalf of ten lakh rubber farmers and almost fifty lakh members of their families to please give a serious thought to raise the import duty on natural rubber sheet to 50 per cent. Definitely the ordinary farmer would be benefited by this measure. Otherwise 70 per cent of increase in the case of natural rubber is going to benefit only the latex manufacturing industry. There are several other things to be said. Take the case of pepper, which is known in this country as the black gold. Even Vasco-da-Gama and Christopher Columbus had tried to find India when they were searching for this black gold and other spices. What is the position of pepper today? The Finance Minister is going to say that the duty has been raised to 70 per cent. But all these years our export has been declining and last year it has declined at the rate of 22 per cent. Why? It is because a low and inferiority quality pepper is being imported from Vietnam just because the duty is down. Why can we not raise it to 200 per cent? I do not understand what is the hindrance. Likewise low quality cardamom is being imported into this country from a South American nation called Guatemala. This year, knowledgeable sources say, Guatemala is having a bumper crop in cardamom. So, large scale import is going to take place and that is going to affect our farmers. We have been exporting all these spices and earning valuable foreign exchange. Now the exports have been stopped and instead we are having large scale imports. Somebody in the Ministry must be befooling the Minister. I know Shri Yashwant Sinha is not a hard man who is having a soft heart towards farmers. I am sure about it. Somebody in the Ministry is misleading the Minister. He may please understand the difficulties of the farmers. There are nearly fifty lakh coconut farmers in this country. Last year very surreptitiously the import duty on crude palm oil had been brought down from 75 per cent to 65 per cent. What was the necessity or the urgency to do it? Despite assurances given by the hon. Finance Minister and the hon. Commerce Minister several times, the duty on the crude palm oil had been cut by 10 per cent. Large scale palm oil import means fall in the existing price of coconut oil and coconut. The coconut farmer as of now is in dire straits. Mr. Deputy-Speaker Sir, you yourself represent a coconut growing area and you know the difficulties of coconut farmers. No thought has been given to the actual difficulties being faced by the farmers of this nation. There are several good points also which have been mentioned by the hon. Finance Minister in his Budget speech relating to the agricultural sector and we all welcome them. The proposal of a modern integrated food processing industry, increase in the capacity of cold storage and rural warehousing scheme, future and forward trading to cover all agricultural products are some of the welcome features. This is one area where the Finance Minister should concentrate. He must immediately allow forward trading in tea. That has been the demand made by the Union of Tea Producers. It is a welcome step which has been declared by the Finance Minister. At the same time, there is the one time settlement scheme that has been announced for the small and marginal farmers. The maximum limit that has been fixed is Rs.50,000. We are granting this one time settlement facility to the big shots. They have taken crores of rupees from the bank and, in fact, they are paying back only half the amount. And for these farmers, it has been fixed at a measly sum of Rs.50,000. I request the hon. Finance Minister to raise the amount to a reasonable level. There are two more points which I want to mention. The Finance Minister has announced making the co-operative sector viable. For export of farm products, he has announced Agro Export Zones. Please consider Kerala, when the scheme is finalised. We are one of the nuclear powers of this world. Nuclear energy can be used for agricultural purposes, for the benefit of the agricultural sector. Nuclear irradiation plants will increase the shelf life of our food products, fruits and vegetables and also remove the fungus contamination etc. from spices and sea foods. That can be put to use. I am requesting the Finance Minister to give liberal assistance and grant to the food processing Ministry to set up plants in all the required States. Sir, I am a bank employee. I must say one word about banks. The Finance Minister has said that the public sector has recovered Rs.12,860 crores by way of NPA. The Finance Minister has not mentioned the actual NPA that is existing in this country. We have Rs. 60,000 crore of Non Performing Assets with our banks. If you add the interest, it crosses one lakh crore. Now, only Rs.12,860 crores have been recovered from the people. They are big shots, big industrialists and big corporates in the country. They are looting the public money of this country. If we recover all this money from them, then the Budget deficit can be clearly abridged. There is no problem. But the Finance Minister is denying the LTC facilities to the Central Government employees. The staff of the Railways, Defence and para military forces are availing of that facility but the Central Government employees are denied. How much money is being saved by denying LTC facility to the Central Government employees? I very humbly request the Finance Minister to consider all these points and take a favourable decision. SHRI ABDUL RASHID SHAHEEN ( BARAMULLA ): Sir, there is a concern and the concern is genuine with this august House and through this august House, the whole nation is concerned. MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: Dinner is arranged and hon. Members may have their dinner from now. SHRI ABDUL RASHID SHAHEEN : That economically, lumbering elephant (India) should run with a tiger, that too a leaping tiger, of course, economically that is, China. We have our economy in a transitional phase and transitions are always painful. The hon. Finance Minister has tried a tight rope walking, with careful consideration, to give a Budget which has passed on less pain to the tax payers. But unfortunately, it has gone excruciating at the lower level with price rise of kerosene. According to me, people living in far-flung areas of my constituency, namely, Gurez, Tulel, Tangdhar, Muchil and upper areas of Uri tehsil, are dependent on kerosene oil during dark winter days and are hard-hit due to this price rise. I would humbly request the Finance Minister to consider this aspect which is very necessary for the poorest of the poor who are hard-hit with this price rise. In this atmosphere, when we want to make our economy a powerful one, we have constraints and those constraints are understood by all of us. Sometimes the scars of legacy of history remain as a permanent mark which becomes hard to wipe off. I have the constraint of time in my mind. I would like to take up the problems of my State. It was a deep wound our economy has got right in 1960, in the form of Indus Water Treaty which was implemented in 1961. It was done at the back of our popular leadership. That unfortunate Treaty emaciated our economy and crippled us for all times to come. That unfortunate Treaty is working as leukaemia in the economic system of our tiny State. Our 15,000 megawatts power generation capacity station has been put on rest and we have been able to utilise only two per cent so far and 2.5 per cent is in the implementation stage, starving and stagnating at different levels for want of financial inputs. This is an unfortunate state of affiars. Even though Jammu and Kashmir has such a big potential for hydel power generation, it is importing power at a higher cost. Through the implementation of power projects in Punjab, the Ravi-Beas project, now we are able to produce one unit of power at 55 paise to 85 paise. That area is availing that benefit. But unfortunately we are suffering. Our present hydel power generation is also left with less capacity because of the siltation. Unfortunately because of this Treaty, we are not in a position to clear that silt. The generation of power in Jhelum has, unfortunately, gone to the low of 23 megawatts during the winter season because of problem of siltation. Keeping in view the harsh realities of this Indus Water Treaty, we should have been considered for faster development inputs in this Budget. I would not like to speak about many things. The hon. Finance Minister has mentioned in his Budget speech that "implementation and governance’’in the para of enhancement that he has made in social sector would make it possible that the lower level of the people can get its divident. I could talk about the empowerment schemes which are not reaching the lower levels of people in different areas. But since I have certain important matters about Jammu and Kashmir, I would like to talk about them. I would mention that implementation of projects is held up at different levels. Due to that our tiny economy is reeling under pressure. Sir, with one single blatant blow that terrorism has delivered, the world economy started reeling under pressure. The economic giant has felt the shock of that blatant blow of 11th September. What about the tiny State which is the victim of terrorist violence for the last twelve years? Our programmes are held up at different levels. A package for promotion of export from Jammu and Kashmir has almost been finalised, but it has been held up for implementation. An industrial package to Jammu and Kashmir on the pattern of North-Eastern States is at the final stage. But the request for reviving the starving units which had been declared sick, for the last twelve years, have not been taken up. The Scheme is not implemented. Inland Container Depot at Jammu, under CIB Scheme is also held up in various Departments and it has not been implemented. Usefulness of the schemes and flow of funds to these schemes, will be felt only when the schemes are implemented, particularly in impoverished States like Jammu and Kashmir. Others States also have their own problems.But I would not be able to talk about that at this time. We brought a Resolution in this House for the creation of a Hill State Development Council which could have been a very good implementation method to look into the problems of these States.Our main stay of economy in J&K horticulture. We have been asking for horticulture export programmes. Schemes have been made and programmes have been made, but they are held up for implementation. A suitable package on horticulture products has to be given. This is a scheme which is there already under consideration.. The Indian Institute of Packaging has made a report and it is held up with the Department. So many things like this are there to be mentioned. Take, for example, the export of sports goods. Our willow wood is famous all over the world for making the cricket bats. To our dismay, unfortunately, it goes in the raw-material form outside the state.… (Interruptions) MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: Please conclude now. SHRI ABDUL RASHID SHAHEEN : I will conclude in a minute. This is a very important programme which could have helped the State. I would like to mention that the biggest raw-material and the most important infrastructure is peace for the country. If we can bring peace to some areas, that will be the biggest infrastructure for the country’s development. Unless we look to the economic development of Jammu & Kashmir, we will not probably be able to 
  
  
  
  

get peace in that area where thousands of unemployed youths are starving and languishing without any hope. I have time and again requested the Government to make a package for the employment of the youths of Jammu & Kashmir so that we can get out of the hell of terrorism and violence. With these words, I conclude. I thank you for giving me this opportunity. SHRI PABAN SINGH GHATOWAR ( DIBRUGARH ): The hon. Member who spoke just now has highlighted how this Budget has affected the lives of the poor and the middle-class people of this country. I will confine myself to some of the problems of the North-Eastern Region. This region is burning with the insurgency problem. Also, this region is devastated by the floods every year. Further, there is a burning unemployment problem which is there. I want to draw the kind attention of the hon. Finance Minister to the longstanding problem of the North-Eastern Region people which is the flood problem. It should be declared as a national problem in the North-Eastern Region. In this Budget, the hon. Finance Minister has allocated only Rs.10 crore to provide Central assistance and only Rs.20 crore for the Brahmaputra Board. It is far from the required assistance from the Central Government. So, I would request the hon. Finance Minister to look into the flood problem and allocate more fund. Another burning problem in the North-Eastern Region is about the tea plantation. More than one million people are working in the tea plantations of the North-Eastern Region. The plantation industry is going through a very difficult time. Earlier also, when the tea industry was in a difficult situation, Dr. Manmohan Singh abolished the excise duty. But the Government has again imposed Rs.2 excise duty. Mr. Minister, you have kindly agreed to withdraw one rupee. I would request you to abolish the total excise duty and form a Committee to see that how best the Government can help the tea industry because this is one of the major labour-intensive industries of country employing more than two million people directly and another two million people indirectly who are working in the tea industry. About the tea industry difficulties the Government should look into this problem. There are two important agencies working in the North-Eastern Region. Dr. Manmohan Singh created the North-Eastern Development Financial Corporation to encourage the small entrepreneurs in the North-Eastern Region so that they can create some new entrepreneurs and create employment in that region. The functioning of this organisation is not up to the mark. So, I would request the hon. Finance Minister to look into the problem of this organisation so that they can actively participate in the development of this region. There is another organisation called the North-Eastern Handicrafts and Handloom Development Corporation. You know that the North-Eastern Region is very rich in handicrafts and handloom products. You have provided nominal rupees one crore and fifty lakh only for the re-organisation of this Corporation. I think this organisation can greatly help the unemployed people of the North-Eastern Region. So, I draw your kind attention to this matter. There are two big projects pending for quite a long time. One is the Gas Cracker Project and the other one is the Bogivil Bridge. The Railway Ministry have expressed their inability because they do not have the finance. Fortunately or unfortunately, the foundation stone of both these projects was laid by the successive Prime Ministers. The Govt. must provide fund for it. The non-implementation of these is becoming one of the burning problems for the North-Eastern people. The Government of India has formulated one Horticulture Mission for the development of horticulture in the North-Eastern Region. We have not seen the report of the Horticulture Mission. I think that the Finance Minister would kindly provide funds for this Mission. The main problems of the North-Eastern Region are insurgency and unemployment. There is a great scope for the development of horticulture in the Region. I would request the Finance Minister to do something in regard to the Horticulture Mission. The hon. Finance Minister is aware that the North-Eastern Region is very rich in flora, fauna and the scenic beauty. But there is no infrastructure for the development of tourism with the result that this area is totally neglected. Development of infrastructure in the field of tourism would create employment potential in the Region. I would request that the Central Government must step in for the development of the infrastructure in the tourism sector. In 1997, the Government of India has declared a tax holiday for those who wanted to establish industry in the Region. No industry has been established in the Region spite of the tax holiday. Hence, I would request the hon. Finance Minister to look into it and make some new announcement of extending assistance to establish new industries in the region so that more and more industries are set up in the Region. The people of the Region are very thankful to the hon. Finance Minister for his declaring 50 per cent excise duty relief to the refineries of the Region. I would like to remind the Finance Minister that 100 per cent excise duty relief was declared to the Accord Refinery of Numaligarh by Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee at the time of its inauguration. But, in this Budget, I do not know as to why that 100 per cent has become 50 per cent. In this regard, I would personally request you to restore 100 per cent so that the relief given by the hon. Prime Minister is not withdrawn. Otherwise, it would send a wrong message to the people of the Region. I would request you to look into a long-standing demand from the small entrepreneurs of the Region to abolish the minimum alternative tax. This long-standing demand of the Region may be taken note of by the Finance Minister. श्री विष्णु पद राय (अंडमान और निकोबार द्वीप समूह) :उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, बहुत-बहुत धन्यवाद। शायद अंडमान-निकोबार द्वीप पर कुछ न कहे तो लगता है कि जनरल बजट पर चर्चा पूरी नहीं हो सकती है। चूंकि अंडमान भारत के आखिरी किनारे पर है, मैं इस बजट का समर्थन करते हुए माननीय मंत्री जी से आग्रह करूंगा कि मेरा भाषण कम से कम सुनें और उस पर क्रियान्वित करने की कोशिश करें। अंडमान-निकोबार द्वीप के लोग बहुत जगह पर बैठे हैं। प्रॉब्लम ऑफ कम्युनिकेशंस, इस पर माननीय मंत्री जी ने नॉर्थ-ईस्ट पर बहुत बड़ी राहत दी थी। १५ प्रतिशत इंलैंड एयर ट्रैवल टैक्स नॉर्थ-ईस्ट के लोगों ने इस साल के बजट में यह प्रावधान रखा है, मेरा अनुरोध है कि यह सुविधा अंडमान-निकोबार को दी जाये। चूंकि अंडमान-निकोबार के लोग लक्षद्वीप के लोग…( व्यवधान)जब नेशनल हाईवे की बात आ रही है, जब पैसे की बात होती है तो अंडमान-लक्षद्वीप इसकी मांग नहीं कर सकते। रेलवे बजट की जब बात हो रही है तो अंडमान-लक्षद्वीप इस पर चर्चा नहीं कर सकते, मांग भी नहीं कर सकते। इसीलिए हमारे शांता कुमार जी और आडवाणी जी,…( व्यवधान) MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: The time was extended up to 9 o’ clock. Is it the pleasure of the House to extend the time of the House till this matter is completed? SOME HON. MEMBERS: Yes. MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: The time is extended. श्री विष्णु पद राय : नॉर्थ-ईस्ट को जो सुविधा देने जा रहे हैं, सेम सुविधा जो आदरणीय आडवाणी जी ने होम मनिस्ट्री की एडवाइजरी मीटिंग में डिसीजन लिया था और उसे कुछ कार्यान्वित भी किया था १ शांता कुमार जी, भारत के इतिहास में अंडमान-निकोबार द्वीप के लोगों के लिए पीडीएस मे मुख्य चीजों के जो दाम हैं, वे अभी भी करीब-करीब हर किलो अधिक रहे। 21.00 hrs. 

माननीय मंत्री श्री शांता कुमार जी ने १६ जनवरी से पीडीएस के लिए हिल ट्रांसपोर्ट सब्सिडी के नाम पर अंडमान-निकोबार को भी शामिल किया है। इसी दिशा में आदरणीय आडवानी जी ने ५ मार्च, २००१ को होम मनिस्ट्री की एडवाइजरी मीटिंग में निर्णय लिया और राम नाईक जी ने उस दिशा में कदम उठाया। अब अंडमान-निकोबार को भी भारत के अन्य राज्यों के अनुसार एलपीजी की सुविधा दी जा रही है। निकोबार डिस्टि्रक्ट्स में ट्राइबल लोग रहते हैं। आज से कुछ समय पहले यहां एक सिलेंडर की कीमत ३८४ रुपए थी। माननीय राम नाईक जी ने बात को सुना और ध्यान देते हुए भारत के साथ अंडमान निकोबार में भी एलपीजी सिलेडर के दाम कम किये। अंडमान-निकोबार में एलपीजी सिलैंडर की कीमत २० रुपए अभी भी अधिक है। इसी प्रकार कुछ स्थानों पर पैट्रोलियम प्रोडक्ट्स में भी राहत दी गई है, जैसे रंगत और निकोबार, लेकिन दिगलीपुर और मायाबंदर आदि जगहों पर यह राहत नहीं दी गई है। मैं उनसे निवेदन करूंगा कि इन क्षेत्रों के लिए भी सब्सिडी दी जाए। इसी प्रकार ५ मार्च को यह भी निर्णय हुआ था कि अरुणाचल प्रदेश और लक्ष्यद्वीप में सब्सिडी के आधार पर अंडमान-निकोबार में इंटर-हिल हैलीकाप्टर सर्विस दी जाए। अंडमान-निकोबार में भगवान के दिए हुए बहुत से टापू हैं और इन क्षेत्रों में टूरिज्म का काफी महत्व है। मेरा आपसे निवेदन है कि इस क्षेत्र में टूरिज्म के विकास के लिए एक पैकेज दिया जाए। अंत में, मैं एक निवेदन और करना चाहता हूं। अंडमान-निकोबार में दो फसले प्रमुख हैं - सुपारी और नारियल। इस बात को सभी जानते हैं कि वहां सुपारी का दाम बहुत ही घट चुका है। मेरा भारत सरकार से निवेदन है कि वे इस ओर खास तौर से ध्यान दें। इस दिशा में पहले ही भारत सरकार को पहले हीMIS स्कीम दी हुई है, जिसके अनुसार सुपारी का दाम ७० रुपए प्रति किलो फाइनल किया जाए। मुझे आशा है कि मंत्री जी इस ओर ध्यान देंगे। इन शब्दों के साथ, मैं अपनी बात समाप्त करते हुए, बजट का समर्थन करता हूं। SHRI SHIVRAJ V. PATIL ( LATUR ): Mr. Deputy-Speaker, Sir, I seek your permission to read out my speech because I do not want to be repetitive and I would like to utilise the time available to me in the best possible manner. MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: All right. SHRI SHIVRAJ V. PATIL : Sir, this is the first regular speech I am making in this House in this Session. At the outset, I would like to pay my homage to the memory of late Speaker, Shri G.M.C. Balayogi. Shri Balayogi was a gentleman, quite considerate and affectionate to Members. He conducted the proceedings of this House in the best possible manner. In the annals of the history of Lok Sabha, his name would find a place of pride and importance. In the past, the Parliament met for more than 150 days in a year. In recent times it is meeting for 100 or 110 days in a year. These reduced number of days are also not utilised fully. The House gets adjourned and the available time is lost by many hours. The Parliament should discuss plans and policies and weighty issues of public importance. The President’s Address should be discussed for enough number of days. The General Budget should be fully deliberated upon. The basic principles underlying and issues relating to the development of Railways and integrated transport system should receive enough attention. The principles used to make the Five-Year Plan should be considered fully by the elected representatives of the people. The Five-Year Plan and the Mid-Term Assessment of the Performance of the Plan used to be discussed thoroughly in the past. But that is not done now. All these aspects are reflected in the poor performance of the Indian economy and all-round development. This makes the Executive less accountable to the Legislature and the representatives of the people in the Legislature less effective and more helpless. Should we change this approach or not? Should we discuss the plans and policies in the Budget more thoroughly or not? These questions should be answered by us and answered positively. Many times, we have discussed them. All the same, the results are not very satisfactory. Let us hope that we will be able to do better in the future. Let us hope that we would have enough time to discuss these weighty matters. The Budget is prepared and presented to the Parliament by the Minister of Finance. However, it is not possible for him to bring about economic and other kinds of developments on his own. He can certainly act as a catalytic agent for all-round economic development. Other Ministers and other Ministries, the public sector and also the private sector should help him to produce the desired results. But that does not appear to be happening. Such a state of affairs cannot be useful to the country. It needs to be changed. The responsibility for economic development needs to be shouldered by all other Ministers and the Ministries as a whole and not only by the Minister of Finance or the Ministry of Finance. The Budget gives an idea as to the achievements in the economic fields in the year gone by. It gives the outline of the design made to bring about economic prosperity in the country in the ensuing year. It touches upon the matters related to these issues. Let us glance at the economic development that has taken place in the financial year that is coming to a close. I propose to read out a few lines or comments given in the Economic Survey of India, 2001-2002 on agriculture, industry, employment, revenue and fiscal deficit, etc. The comments would indicate the state in which our economy finds itself and achievements that are made. They would show if the target indices in the last year’s Budget were fulfilled or not. Now, the first sentence of this Report says : "The Indian economy is passing through a difficult phase." The average annual growth rate during the Ninth Five-Year Plan is now estimated at 5.4 per cent which is lower than the Plan target of 6.5 per cent. "There has been significant deceleration in the growth rate of industry. The real GDP growth rate from mining and quarrying is estimated to have declined from 3.3 per cent in 2000-2001 to 1.4 per cent in 2001-2002." The growth of manufacturing has fallen from 6.7 to 3.3 per cent while that of electricity, gas and water supply has fallen from 6.2 to 5.2 per cent, and that of construction from 6.8 to 2.9 per cent over the same period. The gross fiscal deficit, as a proportion to GDP, is now estimated at 5.5 per cent for 2000-2001, and 5.1 per cent for 2001-2002. As regards revenues, there are significant shortfalls - I am emphasising it - there are significant shortfalls in indirect taxes due to slow-down in the industrial production - significant deceleration of both oil and non-oil imports. Direct tax collections are likely to be below target for the current year. The gross fiscal deficit of the Central Government at the end of the year is likely to exceed the budgeted targets. I would not like to read everything that has been mentioned. But what does it show, let us consider first. These are not the observations of the Opposition Members. They have come from the Government itself. They show that the Budget of the last year should not have been given nine marks out of ten. It was not a very good Budget. The performance of the Government was poor, the economic growth decelerated. The responsibility for this should be shouldered by the entire Government. The responsibility for not presenting a reliable and productive Budget should be shouldered by the Finance Minister. What are the causes of this failure given by the Government? The causes are World economic situation, natural calamities and war in Kargil. Can we accept these explanations? I would say, "partly yes." But they are not the only causes. There are other causes because of which the failure has occurred. What are the other causes? The other causes are absence of vision, wrong policy, inept governance, absence of cooperation between the Union and the State Governments, absence of dialogue between the Union and the State Governments for coordinated efforts, absence of cooperation and correct balance between the public sector and the private sector, negligence to implement the Five Year Plan, non-understanding of the impact on the world economic situation, non-development of infrastructure, relying too much on non-governmental forces and efforts, antipathy towards the real problems of the workers, insensitivity towards the problems of the consumers, non dependence on the modern methods of management, administration and governance, negligence to develop modern science and technology and use it, reliance on trade more than on industry, reliance on industry more than on agriculture, reliance on capital more than on labour and knowledge, absence of efforts to discover new avenues of production, inattention towards the principles of economic justice, inappropriate attention paid to the problems of dishonesty and malpractices, attaching more importance to non-issues like building of temple and paying less attention to the building of modern temple of economic development like irrigation, dams, power stations, industries, universities, laboratories, etc., short-sightedness, realisation that the governing parties may not come back to power after the next general election, inexperience in matters of governance… (Interruptions) श्री राम नगीना मिश्र ( पडरौना ) : आप लोगों को बार-बार मंदिर का नाम लेने की आदत पड़ गई है। आप बता दीजिए कि सरकार ने मंदिर के लिए कितना पैसा दिया है और कितना खर्च किया है? आप हर बात पर मंदिर का नाम लेते हैं।…( व्यवधान) SHRI SHIVRAJ V. PATIL : The cost and time over-run of 200 projects which are monitored by the Prime Minister’s Office, I was told, are in the vicinity of Rs. 17,000 crore, which has been stated in the Report given by the Finance Committee. This list is not exhaustive. Yet, all causes need not be mentioned here and now. They can be identified later on to bring about the improvement and to see that the fixed targets are achieved. Nothing more need be said on the last year’s Budget. The Budget for the ensuing year presented by the Finance Minister has not received any appreciation from any section of the society. The hon. Finance Minister who has been sitting in the House very kindly for all the time might have heard the criticism levelled against the Budget. Excepting two or three Members of his Party, all other Members have criticised the Budget. It has disappointed one and all. We are afraid that it would prove more disastrous than the Budget of the year which is lapsing within a few days time. This year’s Budget is not visionary, not imaginative, is mechanical, negative in its content, uninspiring, a compilation of the proposals received from different Ministries, it is disjointed, not an organic whole which can thrive and produce life-giving results. This is a very disappointing document. The Finance Minister speaks of economic reforms and second phase of economic reforms. … (Interruptions) SHRI PRAKASH MANI TRIPATHI ( DEORIA ): Mr. Deputy-Speaker, shall we take it as read? … (Interruptions) SHRI SHIVRAJ V. PATIL : Why should it be done? … (Interruptions) I am not criticising in a harsh language. … (Interruptions) SHRI PRAKASH MANI TRIPATHI : I would like to question the time management of the parties. I would like to know how much time was allotted and how much has been given. … (Interruptions) SHRI SHIVRAJ V. PATIL : Do you mean to say that if I shout, you will give me the time, and if I make reasonable statements, you will not give me the time? … (Interruptions) MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: I have allowed him.… (Interruptions) SHRI PRAKASH MANI TRIPATHI : Sir, there is a point that I wish to make is that you have been asking the Members to sit after speaking for two or three minutes. Is there a time-management? We can take it as read since it is being read. It can be laid on the Table of the House. … (Interruptions) SHRI SHIVRAJ V. PATIL : I would be guided by the Deputy Speaker and not by the Member as far as the time allocation is concerned. … (Interruptions) SHRI KIRTI JHA AZAD ( DARBHANGA ): Sir, he should be guided by the norm of the House that it is not read. … (Interruptions) SHRI SHIVRAJ V. PATIL : Sir, I am talking about the economic reforms. The economic reforms should help to alleviate poverty, to increase production and productivity, to reduce unemployment, to modernise the units of production, to develop science and technology, to become able to compete with other countries, to use new areas of production, to protect citizens against economic uncertainties, and to encourage all sections in the society to do better. But what is the nature of reforms that the Government envisages? They are downsizing the Government, reducing the subsidy, allowing the market forces to play their role, reducing the governance to the minimum, privatisation, disinvestment, globalisation, reduction of taxes and simplification of the procedures. These are the characteristics of the economic reforms that the Government wants to do. We do not object to all this. I am emphasizing that we do not object to all this. We object to a few points, which are not in the interest of the people, the country and the economic development. If the economic justice is not done, if the property belonging to the society is given to only a few, if the poverty is not reduced, if the people are not enthused to do more, if production and productivity do not increase, if the employed are thrown out of jobs and unemployed are forced to fend for themselves and if production and productivity are affected as a result of the so-called reforms, would it be possible for us to treat them as real reforms? That exactly appears to be happening. Should we welcome such reforms? Should we not opt for the reforms which help the people, the present and the future times, and generate a climate for all-round development? We are for reforms, real reforms, and not for reforms that create problems for many. Panditji reformed our economy by building irrigation dams, by establishing power-generating units, by distributing land to the tillers, by establishing national laboratories and by developing science and technology for the present and the future. Shrimati Indira Gandhi continued the reforms by making funds available to all enterprising persons by taking concrete steps for alleviation of poverty, by initiating to use the resources from ocean, space, biotechnology and by making the country self-sufficient in food. Shri Rajiv Gandhi did the same by reforming the policies and by introducing new communication system and electronic genetics in the field of production. Shri Narasimha Rao’s Government liberalized, privatized and globalised with a human face and helped to move ahead. Throughout the world, modifications and reforms are taking place. India does not want to be left behind in this respect. It is willing to learn some lessons from other countries. At the same time, it would like to invent and discover new methods of production, distribution and management. India will follow other countries with its eyes and ears open. It would not hesitate to learn from others or invent on its own. It does not want to be isolated from other countries. It would march with others. At the same time, it would not be ready to blindly follow the reform theories applicable to other countries of the world, which have different capacities and different problems. MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: Please come to the last one. SHRI SHIVRAJ V. PATIL : I was trying to make some suggestions. I will not only criticise but I will also make suggestions. MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: How much time do you need? SHRI SHIVRAJ V. PATIL : Well, Sir, I need some time. But if it is inconvenient, I can place it. MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: You can read it on the table of the House. SHRI SHIVRAJ V. PATIL : I would not like to cause inconvenience to the entire House. श्री श्रीचन्द कृपलानी ( चित्तौड़गढ़ ): उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, इनका भाषण टेबल पर ले करा दीजिये। THE MINISTER OF HOME AFFAIRS ( SHRI L.K. ADVANI ): Let him continue. MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: Yes, you can continue now. SHRI SHIVRAJ V. PATIL : I was trying to be positive and not negative. But if it is inconvenient, I can type it and leave it on the Table. Economic growth has slowed down. The trend should be reversed. More investment opportunities should be provided. More investments should be done by the Government. More investments should be attracted. But there are no provisions in the Budget to achieve these objectives. If it were positive, these kinds of provisions could have been there. The Budget should identify the areas in which surpluses are available and mop them up and transfer them to the areas where they can generate income and enhance production, productivity and employment. But they are invisible and unavailable, which will not help to secure an upward swing in the economy. That would prove to be a tragedy, which India does not deserve. For economic and all round development modern science and technology are required. They could be procured from abroad or developed in the country. In India, they are developed mainly by the Union Government, not by the State Governments. The public sector and the private sector do not invest enough funds in R&D in India as in other advanced countries. So, it is imperative for the national Government to make sufficient allocations for research and development but the Budget of 2002-03 does not do that. That the reality is not comprehended by the Government is reflected in the Budget. The allocations are too meagre. They are insufficient and unsatisfactory, because of which industry, agriculture, education, infrastructure, defence, communication and transport are going to suffer. Science and technology, in present times, has acquired a far greater importance than capital and that should be clearly understood. If we want to develop our innate strength, we have to pay more attention to research and development and find more funds for that purpose. These funds, which are given in hundreds of thousands of rupees are not sufficient even for one project. If we feel satisfied by allocating hundreds of thousands of rupees for the entire research in the country, it is not ultimately going to help us. Rural India depends upon agriculture. For food and fodder, human beings and cattle rely upon farming. If farming sector does not develop, rural masses would become unemployed, penury-stricken and would suffer. To develop agriculture in India, inter alia, we need the following things, namely, irrigation facilities should be enhanced; allocation for irrigation is not sufficient; agricultural education should be imparted to farmers; there are no clear policies with regard to them; new varieties of seeds, fertilisers and pesticides should be produced and made available to the agriculturists; and the agricultural produce should fetch remunerative prices to the producers. At this point, I would like to say that the Government of India says that procurement should be done by the State Governments. The Government of India is withdrawing from the market. When the Government of India withdraws from the market, the prices of the agricultural produce are going to fall. The State Governments are not willing to procure foodgrains coming to the market. The Indian Government is withdrawing from the market. So, how do we give remunerative prices to farmers? It is really a problem. This problem has to be very seriously considered by the Government and Parliament and all of us sitting here. The surplus agricultural commodities should be exported. There is no mechanism available for this purpose. If you give this responsibility to these people who are not interested in getting the foodgrains and to export them, foodgrains will not be purchased by them and will not be exported. It is not possible for the farmers to export foodgrains to foreign countries. They do not know what kind of markets are there in foreign countries. They are not in a position to export foodgrains. So, there should be, in place, a mechanism that is really capable of getting foodgrains, fruits, flowers and vegetables and exporting them to other countries. Some plans were made by the Foreign Trade Ministry some years ago but I think those plans were not acted upon. It would be necessary for us to take some action on those plans and see that the agricultural produce is exported, especially to countries that are producing oil and where agricultural produce is not available or agriculture is not possible. Enough credit facilities should be given. I would like to say that the hon. Finance Minister has said that Rs.65,000 crore would be given as agricultural credit to farmers. I would like to understand if Rs.65,000 crore are enough for providing financial assistance to agriculture sector in our country, on which 70 per cent of the people depend. The Government of India had taken a decision and said that 40 per cent of the loans shall be given to the agriculturists. This is a direction given by the Government of India to all the banks in the country. But unfortunately, not even six to eight per cent of the loans were given to the farmers by the urban banks. That is why a decision was taken that all the money which should have been given to the farmers should be transferred to NABARD and the NABARD should give the loans to the farmers. Unfortunately, even NABARD, which is a bank of the Government of India, was not in a position to distribute 40 per cent of the loans given to other sector for development in rural sector. Only 12 to 16 per cent were distributed – by some 12 per cent and by some 16 per cent. That is why Rs.65,000 crore credit given to the farmers is insufficient. Even in this, we have found that the banks are not distributing the loans to the farmers in a proper manner. If the loan is not given to the farmers, how are we going to develop agriculture in our country? That is really the problem. Genetics is also one of the things which has to be developed. We have a Department of Genetics. The genetic science should be developed in agricultural universities. The State Governments should contribute towards it and the Government of India should also contribute towards it. Productivity of the land is going to be one of the most important problems in the years to come. The most disturbing feature today in India with respect to agriculture is the productivity of the land which is affected because of irrigation facilities and because of the chemical fertilisers. I do not see that anybody has paid attention to this aspect, that is, the productivity of the land, and that is something which has to be considered by the Government of India. If not considered, within 10 or 15 years time we will find that many hectares of land will become unproductive. Already they have become unproductive in Gangetic belt and already they are becoming unproductive in the areas where the canal irrigation is provided. This aspect has to be considered if you really want to give an impetus and encouragement to agricultural activities in India. As far as the food stocks are concerned, I am not going to say anything more on this. There was a full-fledged discussion on this topic last year. Even this year the foodgrains are available in the godowns but they are not becoming available to those who really need them. Why is this happening? This is happening because there is no plan with the Government of India. It was suggested by one of the very famous scientists in India that there should be food banks in the districts in our country. Have you paid attention to this? If rice and wheat is produced in Punjab and Tamil Nadu and in such States, that rice should be available to the people living in Orissa, that wheat and rice should be available to the people living in the North-Eastern States. If the distance is the problem, it should be seen that that rice and wheat should be available to them by taking steps in before time. There are many points which I would have to state. With regard to industry also, we are not paying attention to the industrial development as such. The rate of growth in industry also has decelerated. But the problem of industry in India is two-fold - (i) to establish new industry and (ii) to see that the sick industry is not allowed to be sick. If we really want industrial development, one of the things which has to be done by us is to select the areas where the industry can develop and concentrate on that. It is not possible to develop the industry in all areas and compete with other countries also. Coming to labour reform, what is labour reform? The hon. Leader of the Opposition also made a reference to the labour reforms. If the labour reforms reduce the protection given to the labour, if the labour reforms make the labour unemployed, if the labour reforms leave the labour to the mercy of those who employ them, can we call it the labour reforms? If it is necessary, let us do it in such a fashion that the labour ultimately gets the assistance. It is not only the labour but it is the labour, consumer and the producer who should get benefit out of the labour reforms. If the labour reforms is only to see that the ‘hire and fire’ policy is adopted and the labour is thrown out of jobs, that kind of labour reforms is not really the labour reforms. Privatisation is being discussed by the Government here all the time. The Congress Party is not opposed to privatisation. The Congress Party has accepted the principle of mixed economy. That means the public sector, the private sector and the cooperative sector should be there. But what happens is that because of the dogmatic principles of privatisation that are adopted and implemented by the Government, it does not succeed. It became very clear to me when I visited Rajasthan only two days back. The Government there told me that in Rajasthan the Suratgarh project, the power-producing unit, could not be established in Rajasthan for the last 20 years. That was not established not because money was not available but that was not established because the Government could not decide whether it should be established in the private sector or in the public sector. The decision was taken that if the private sector is not forthcoming the public sector should be allowed to establish it. It was established and the project was completed within 28 months’ time instead of 32 months. The cost of producing electricity came down from Rs. 4 crore per Megawatt to Rs. 3.80 crore per Megawatt. So, this principle of privatisation has to be adopted. But it has to be adopted in a very very careful manner. Sir, I will make the last point and then take my seat. It is on fiscal deficit. We are discussing fiscal deficit. What is the solution suggested by the Government to reduce the fiscal deficit? One is disinvestment and the second is to reduce the subsidies. These are the two methods by which the Government wants to reduce the fiscal deficit. The third thing that they are trying to do is to have some sort of legislation which can really help them to reduce the fiscal deficit. But these are negative methods. They are not positive methods. If you really want to reduce the fiscal deficit, it is necessary to see that the production increases; it is necessary to see that the capacities which are established in the country are utilised to the maximum. If it is to be reduced, then the pilferage in electricity has to be stopped. Only then you would be able to do it. If the Government does not have the determination and will power to do it, it will not be possible. By having a law, you will not be able to reduce the fiscal deficit. You will be able to give the excuses as to why the fiscal deficit is not reduced. But if you have the will power then with law or with rules or without rules and only with executive power, you will be able to do it. I do not want to take more time of yours. I am grateful to you and to the Treasury Benches and to the hon. Members for having given me this much time. श्रीमती रेनु कुमारी ( खगड़िया ) :उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, मैं भी दो मिनट बोलना चाहती हूं। जब से इंतजार कर रही हूं। मुझे दो मिनट का ही समय दे दीजिए। मैं भी बजट पर बोलना चाहती हूं। उपाध्यक्ष महोदय : रेनु जी, आपकी पार्टी के दो मैम्बर बोल चुके हैं। मंत्री जी को भी कम से कम ४५ मिनट बोलने के लिए चाहिए। इसके बाद उत्तर प्रदेश का बजट भी लेना है। काफी समय हो चुका है। आप थोड़ा चेयर के साथ कोआपरेट कीजिए। वित्त मंत्री ( श्री यशवन्त सिन्हा ): उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, सबसे पहले मैं इस अवसर पर स्वर्गीय श्री जी.एम.सी. बालयोगी जी की स्मृति को नमन करना चाहूंगा। मुझे याद है, २८ फरवरी को जिस दिन मैं इसी सदन में अपना बजट पेश कर रहा था, श्री बालयोगी जी उस कुर्सी पर बैठे थे। उस अवसर पर और अन्य कई अवसरों पर जिस सूझ-बूझ से, जिस विद्वता के साथ, जिस ज्ञान के साथ उन्होंने इस सदन की कार्यवाही को संचालित किया, वह हम सबके लिए स्मरणीय है।…( व्यवधान) SHRI V. VETRISELVAN ( KRISHNAGIRI ): Sir, he should speak in English. … (Interruptions) MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: You may listen to English interpretation. … (Interruptions) श्री यशवन्त सिन्हा : उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, मैं उन ४४ सदस्यों का भी आभारी हूं जिन्होंने इस सामान्य बजट की चर्चा में भाग लिया और लगभग १४ घंटे तक चली इस चर्चा में अनेक सुझाव दिये गये और हमारा ज्ञानवर्द्धन किया। मैं मानता हूं कि जितनी बुद्धि और विवेक के साथ मैं कल इस सदन में बैठा था, आज उस बुद्धि की मात्रा बढ़ी हुई है। बुद्धि की मात्रा भी बढ़ी है और अंडरस्टैंडिंग की मात्रा भी बढ़ी है। श्री मणि शंकर अय्यर जी ने इस चर्चा को शुरू किया और श्री शिवराज पाटिल जी ने कांग्रेस की तरफ से अंतिम भाषण इस चर्चा में किया। दोनों की भाषा में जो अंतर था, उसके विस्तार में मैं नहीं जाना चाहता हूं लेकिन शुरू में मैं इतनी बात जरूर कहूंगा कि जब श्री मणि शंकर अय्यर जी, मेरे मित्र, मेरे दोस्त बोल रहे थे तो उन्होंने स्वर्गीय श्रीमती इंदिरा गांधी जी का जिक्र किया। उनके कार्यकाल के चार वर्ष के समय आर्थिक विकास की प्रगति की दर क्या रही, स्वर्गीय श्री राजीव गांधी जी का नाम लिया और उनके चार वर्षों में आर्थिक विकास की दर क्या रही और उसके बाद डा. मनमोहन सिंह जी का नाम लिया कि उनके नेतृत्व में देश ने चार वर्षों में कैसे प्रगति की, यह सब बताया। बीच में एक नाम छूट गया, क्या मुझे याद दिलाने की आवश्यकता है ? एक नाम नहीं लिया। मैं कांग्रेस पार्टी की राजनीति में कोई दखल नहीं देना चाहता हूं लेकिन मैं इतना अवश्य कहना चाहूंगा।…( व्यवधान) श्री मणि शंकर अय्यर : मैंने वाजपेयी जी का नाम नहीं लिया, आपका नाम नहीं लिया। मैं यह दो नाम भूल गया। श्री यशवन्त सिन्हा : अगर आप थोड़ा धीरज और धैर्य के साथ मेरी बात सुने जिस धैर्य के साथ मैंने आपकी बात सुनी तो आपकी बुद्धि का भी थोड़ा सा विकास होगा। उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, हम इस साल २००२-२००३ के बजट पर चर्चा कर रहे हैं लेकिन हम बहुत अतीत में गये। बहुत अतीत में जाकर जो तुलना हमको शायद नहीं करनी थी, जो कम्पेरीजन हमको नहीं करना था, वह कम्पेरीजन करने का भी काम यहां पर किया। अब कितनी दूर इतिहास में जाना चाहते हैं। मेरे चार वर्ष बहुत बुरे रहे। अटल जी के नेतृत्व में जो सरकार चार वर्षों से चल रही है, आपके अनुसार उसने देश की आर्थिक स्थिति को बद से बदतर बना दिया ।आखिर क्यों? क्योंकि हमारी विकास की दर नीचे आ गई। सन् २०००-०१ में ४ प्रतिशत, २००१-०२ में आज के अनुमान के अनुसार ५.४ प्रतिशत। इस पर आपकी निराशा है और उसकी तुलना आपने श्री राजीव गांधी के चार वर्षों के साथ, श्री मनमोहन सिंह के चार वर्षों के साथ और श्रीमती इंदिरा गांधी के चार वर्षों के साथ की। अगर उससे भी ज्यादा इतिहास में जाएं, मैंने इसीलिए तैयार करवाया, १९५१-५२ से १९७६-७७, कांग्रेस के शासन के जो २५ वर्ष इस देश में रहे, आर्थिक विकास की दर क्या थी - ३.६ प्रतिशत थी, २५ वर्षों तक लगातार। From 1980-81 to 1988-89, another nine to ten years of the Congress rule, what was the rate of growth? The average rate of growth was 5.7 per cent. Then from 1991-92 to 1995-96, another five years of the golden era of the Congress rule, the average rate of growth was 5.4 per cent. Why was it 5.4 per cent? We have been very generous because in all our calculations, we have excluded the crisis year of 1991-92. We have ourselves said that 1991-92 was a crisis year and, therefore, that should not be taken into account. Therefore, we calculate the rate of growth of the last four years of Shri Narasimha Rao and Shri Manmohan Singh’s period and that works out to a higher growth rate. But if you include 1991-92, then it is, as I said, 5.4 per cent. Therefore, the average of the Congress rule, throughout the history of this country, works out to 4.9 per cent. Let us go into history, I have no objection. श्री लक्ष्मण सिंह : कांग्रेस ने देश को गुलामी से निकाला। उसे भी जरा बोलिए।…( व्यवधान) श्री यशवन्त सिन्हा : मैं सिर्फ इतनी बात कह रहा हूं कि आप मेरे न्यूनतम दो वर्षों को हाथ में ले लीजिए और आपके जो सबसे उत्तम वर्ष रहे, उनसे उनकी तुलना करें तो यह क्या सही तुलना होगी? मैं इतनी सी बात आपसे पूछ रहा हूं। हम जब १९९८-९९ में सरकार में आए, उस समय क्या स्थिति थी। In 1997-98, the growth rate had come down to 4.8 per cent. The industrial deceleration had already started.उसके बाद मेरे प्रथम वर्ष में 6.6 per cent was the growth rate. Why did you not mention that? यह कोई तर्क नहीं है, कुतर्क है कि हमारे जो सबसे कम ग्रोथ के वर्ष हैं, उसे ले लें और आपके सबसे ज्यादा ग्रोथ के वर्षों से उसकी तुलना करने लगें और कहें कि आप फेल कर गए, यह तर्क स्वीकार्य नहीं है। उसी प्रकार अगर आंकड़ों में जाएं तो आप पाएंगे कि देश की कृषि के विकास में उतार-चढ़ाव हर समय हुआ है, लगातार हुआ है, कभी गिरा है। ५.६ प्रतिशत अगर कृषि की विकास दर १९९५-९६ में गिर गई, जब कांग्रेस पार्टी का शासन था तो क्या उसके लिए हम आपको कोस रहे हैं - नहीं कोस रहे हैं क्योंकि हम जानते हैं कि हमारे देश की कृषि कई और इस प्रकार के बाहय कारणों पर आधारित है जिस पर किसी सरकार, किसी वित्त मंत्री का नियंत्रण नहीं होता। इसलिए आटोनोमसली वह बढ़ता है और कई कारणों के चलते गिरता भी है। नीतियों की उसमें निश्चित रूप से एक भूमिका है और उन्हीं नीतियों को अपने हर बजट में, जो मेरा पांचवां बजट था, मैंने कृषि से संबंधित उन नीतियों को सदन के सामने, देश के सामने रख कर। कृषि के विकास की ओर सबका ध्यान आकृष्ट किया है। हमारे सदस्यों ने सही कहा, मैं उनके प्रति आभार व्यक्त करता हूं कि इस साल के बजट का अगर कोई मुख्य अंश है, थ्रस्ट है तो वह भारत की कृषि का विकास है। यहां मैंने अपने बजट भाषण में भी कहा। उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, मैंने उन परिस्थितियों का भी वर्णन किया है जिन परिस्थितियों में इस बजट का मैंने निर्माण किया और उन परिस्थितियों में बहुत सारी परिस्थितियां विपरीत थीं, प्रतिकूल थीं और उन प्रतिकूल परिस्थितियों को देखते हुए हमें बजट बनाना था। मैं जानता था कि इस बजट में कई ऐसी बातें हैं, जिनको लेकर लोगों में कुछ नाराजगी पैदा होगी, कुछ कठिनाई उनको हो सकती है, लेकिन प्रधानमंत्री के नेतृत्व में जो मैंने देश के हित में उचित समझा, वही मैंने किया। आपने क्या एक पल के लिए भी पलटकर सोचा कि मैं भी तो इसी सदन का एक निर्वाचित सदस्य हूं, मैं भी चुनकर आया हूं, मैं इस हाउस का कोई नोमिनेटिड मैम्बर नहीं हूं और अच्छे मतों से जीतकर आया हूं। मेरा जो निर्वाचन क्षेत्र है, इस देश के गरीब से गरीब इलाके में उसकी गिनती होती है, क्या उसका द्ृश्य मेरे सामने नहीं था, क्या मैं उसको भूल गया था? लेकिन ये जो आरोप लगाते हैं, यह वातावरण उचित नहीं है, मैं यह कहने का प्रयास कर रहा हूं। इस सदन में बहुत सारे सदस्यों ने सहमति की बात की, कंसेंसस की बात की है और मैं शत-प्रतिशत उनके साथ सहमत हूं कि सहमति बननी चाहिए। आर्थिक नीतियों के आधार के ऊपर सहमति बननी चाहिए और सहमति बनाकर ही हम आगे बढ़ने का काम कर सकते हैं। उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, मैं आपके माध्यम से इस सदन से कहना चाहूंगा कि सहमति है, प्रधानमंत्री यहां पर बैठे हैं, गृह मंत्री जी बैठे हैं, हमारे अन्य सहयोगी मंत्री यहां पर बैठे हैं। हम जब-जब राज्यों के मुख्यमंत्रियों से बात करते हैं तो वह सहमति बिल्कुल झलकती हुई हमारे सामने आती है। वे भी उन्हीं समस्याओं से जूझ रहे हैं, जिन समस्याओं से हम यहां केन्द्र में जूझ रहे हैं। केरल में क्या हुआ? इतने दिनों तक वहां एक स्ट्राइक चली, आप बड़े खुश हो रहे थे, जब हमारे वामपंथी मित्र हमारे ऊपर आक्रमण कर रहे थे। केरल में क्या वे आपके साथ थे, इतने दिनों तक जो स्ट्राइक चली, किसने मदद की, केरल के चीफ मनिस्टर की मैंने मदद की। मैं इस सदन को कहना चाहता हूं कि जब केरल के चीफ मनिस्टर से मेरी स्वयं की बात हुई तो उन्होंने कहा कि मेरी ट्रेजरी बन्द हो गई है, आप कहीं से इसके लिए संसाधन की व्यवस्था कीजिए, तो मैंने कहा कि मैं कहूंगा। निश्चित रूप से जो लोग शासन में आज के दिन हैं, मैं यह कहना चाहता हूं कि उनके बीच में सहमति है, चाहे वे किसी भी दल के हों।There is consensus on economic reforms and on the economic policies in this country. Therefore, the plea, very humble plea that I am making is that let us take some of the issues of economic policies out of the domain of petty politics. It will indeed be a great day for this country and for the future of this country if you could agree on the basics and I know that there is no difference of opinion as far as the basics are concerned. Shri Shivraj Patil can say, Shri Mani Shankar Aiyar can sayकि आपकी जो डिसइन्वेस्टमेंट की पॉलिसी है, हम उससे सहमत नहीं हैं। अगर यह सरकार शाम को पांच बजे डिसइन्वेस्टमेंट करती है तो वे कहते हैं कि आपसे मेरा मतभेद था, क्योंकि हमने उसको ११ बजे सुबह किया होता, हमारा मतभेद है, क्योंकि हम पांच बजे शाम को करना चाहते हैं और आप उसको ११ बजे सुबह करना चाहते हैं, यही मतभेद है। जब तक आपकी सरकार रही, जिसकी आप यहां व्याख्या कर रहे थे, उसने डिसइन्वेस्टमेंट किया तो उस समय आपको कोई यह बात ध्यान में नहीं आई और उसी डिसइन्वेस्टमेंट की नीति को अगर हमने और देवेगौड़ा जी यहां नहीं हैं, उन्होंने भी इस बजट की चर्चा में भाग लिया…( व्यवधान) श्री हरीभाऊ शंकर महाले ( मालेगांव ): ़हैं, बैठे हैं। अब हम एक से दो हो गये। श्री यशवन्त सिन्हा : I did not notice him. उन्होंने और गुजराल साहब की दो वर्ष सरकार रही। देवेगौड़ा जी की सरकार और श्री गुजराल की सरकार, उन दोनों सरकारों ने डिसइन्वेस्टमेंट की नीति पर चलने का काम किया। आप कह रहे हैं कि पालिसी क्या है, आपकी नीयत क्या है, स्पष्ट करिए, क्योंकि आपकी नीयत स्पष्ट नहीं है। मैं आपसे निवेदन करना चाहता हूं कि मेरे दो बजट इसी सदन में हुए हैं। अगर उनको आप गौर से सुनेंगे तो पता चलेगा कि हमारी नीयत बिल्कुल स्पष्ट है। नीयत का यह मतलब नहीं हुआ कि हम ५० पेज का दस्तावेज तैयार करें, तभी नीयत बनती है। नीयत अगर स्पष्ट होती है तो चार लाइन में भी नीयत स्पष्टहो सकती है। उसी तरह सूत्र में हमने उस नीयत को स्पष्ट किया है और उसी पर चलने का काम हम कर रहे हैं। आप तो छोटे-छोटे टुकड़ों में डिसइंवैस्टमेंट करते थे। मैं आपसे कहता हूं कि सदन की कोई समति इसकी जांच कर ले कि आपके समय में जो वनिवेश हुआ पब्लिक सेक्टर अंडरटेकिंग्स का, उसमें कितनी कीमत आपको प्राप्त हुई और आज जिस तरीके से हम वनिवेश कर रहे हैं, उसमें कितनी अधिक कीमत हमें प्राप्त हो रही है। इस बात की जांच कर ली जाए। प्रधान मंत्री जी ने कहा है, बार-बार कहा है कि हम क्या पब्लिक सेक्टर के विरोध में हैं, कतई नहीं। हमने बहुत सरकारी संसाधन को व्यय करके २० से अधिक पब्लिक सेक्टर कम्पनीज को रिवाइव करने का काम किया है। अगर हम उसके विरोध में होते तो हम यह काम नहीं करते। हम कहते कि जाओ, हम नहीं करते, जहां जाना है, जाओ, हमको चिंता नहीं है। लेकिन हमने चिंता की है। हजारों-करोड़ रुपए खर्च करके हम पब्लिक सेक्टर कम्पनीज को फिर से रिवाइव करने की कोशिश कर रहे हैं, आगे भी करेंगे। नेशनल टैक्सटाइल कार्पोरेशन को रिवाइव करने के लिए प्रधान मंत्री जी ने ग्रुप आफ मनिस्टर्स बनाया है। उसमें क्या किया हम लोगों ने, हम लोगों ने न केवल यह तय किया कि केवल कम्पनी ही नहीं, हम एक-एक यूनिट को देखेंगे। एक-एक यूनिट अगर वायबल हो सकती है, उसे करेंगे। उस यूनिट में भी अगर एक डिपार्टमेंट है, वह वायबल नहीं हो सकता, कौन सा हो सकता है, इतने विस्तार में हम लोग जाकर जहां-जहां रिवाइवल कर सकते हैं, उसको करने की कोशिश कर रहे हैं। लेकिन कांग्रेस पार्टी का पचमढ़ी का मैं रिजोल्यूशन देख रहा था। "Public sector companies in a competitive environment", this is the description. उसका वनिवेश नहीं होना चाहिए। अब आप बिठाएं एक कमीशन, जो यह तय करे कि "public sector companies in a competitive environment." प्रोफिटेबल है या नहीं है। और पब्लिक कम्पीटिटीव एन्वायरन्मेंट में आज के दिन है, तो कल भी रहेगी, परसों भी रहेगी।That policy is flawed, I will say with great respect to the Congress Party Resolution. इसीलिए वनिवेश पर हमारी नीयत स्पष्ट है। उसमें कहीं किसी प्रकार की कोई ओपेकनैस नहीं है। उसमें कहीं कोई कन्फ्यूजन नहीं है। हम सही नीति पर चल रहे हैं। उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, बड़ी समस्या क्या है इस देश के सामने बजट बनाते समय, हमने पांच बार उसको फेस किया है। आने वाले वर्षों में जो भी बजट बनाएगा, सबसे बड़ी समस्या देश के वित्त मंत्री, देश के प्रधान मंत्री और देश की सरकार के सामने क्या होगी कि how do you make both ends meet? यहां पर बात होती है पांच करोड़ रुपए की, दस करोड़ रुपए की, १०० करोड़ रुपए की, ८०० करोड़ रुपए की और १००० करोड़ रुपए की। मेरे लिए तो एक करोड़ रुपए और ५० लाख रुपए भी बहुत महत्वपूर्ण हैं, क्योंकि मैं जब बैठकर हिसाब करता हूं बजट बनाते समय, तो एक-एक रुपए का हिसाब करना पड़ता है। एक-एक रुपए का हिसाब हम करते हैं। मैं आपसे कहना चाहता हूं कि क्या स्थिति है फिस्कल डेफसिट की, इसका जिक्र कई सदस्यों ने किया। इसका मतलब क्या हुआ, इसका मतलब यह हुआ कि हमारी जो आमदनी है, हमारा जो खर्च है, उन दोनों के बीच में क्या अंतर है। उसको हम कैसे पाटते हैं, हम कर्ज लेकर पाटते हैं। कैसे पाटते रहे अतीत में, कर्ज लेते रहे पाटते रहे, कर्ज लेते रहे पाटते रहे। मैं आपको आंकड़े बताना चाहता हूं, ये बहुत पुराने नहीं हैं। In 1995-96, the interest burden of the Central Government was only Rs.50,000 crore. What is it in 2002-03? It is Rs.1,17390 crore. ५०,००० करोड़ रुपए से एक लाख १७ हजार करोड़ रुपए सिर्फ ब्याज है। एक लाख १७ हजार करोड़ रुपए हम सिर्फ ब्याज दे रहे हैं। Forty per cent of the total non-plan expenditure is interest. Of the revenue receipts, 48 per cent is only interest paid. क्या हम चला सकते हैं, इसको अगर कोई कहे कि हां हम चला सकते हैं, लेकिन उसके लिए जितना चाहो हर साल बौरो करते चले जाओ। यहां पर आंकड़ा दिया गया है कि हमारे देश के ऊपर कर्जा कितना है। 22.00 hrs. 

हम कर्ज लेते जाएं, ऋण लेते जाएं, बहुत पोपुलर वित्त मंत्री बन जाएंगे - फिर हम सारी छूट दे देंगे, सबकी सब बात मान लेंगे और फिसकल डैफसिट जो होगा, वह १,३०,००० करोड़ रुपये, जो हम बॉरो करने जा रहे हैं, १,३५,००० करोड़ रुपये, वह उतना नहीं जबकि हम १,८०,००० करोड़ रुपये और कर लेंगे। आने वाली पीढि़यां समझेंगी, मेरा क्या जाता है लेकिन जब हम जिम्मेदारी के पद पर बैठे हैं तो मैं आपसे पूछना चाहता हूं,…( व्यवधान) Does it behove us? मैं सदन के सामने इस बात को रखना चाहता हूं। मैंने पिछले साल इंटर जनरेशनल ईक्विटी की बात इसी सदन में उठाई थी। क्या हमारा आज हक बनता है कि आने वाली पीढि़यों को हम इस भार से लादकर जाएं?आज हम मौज-मस्ती कर लें और कल उनके ऊपर जैसे हमारे ऊपर यह भार पड़ा हुआ है, हम मौज करके चले जाएं और उसके बाद आने वाली पीढि़यां समझेंगी और आप खर्चे की बात करते हैं। यहां इस सदन में हमारे सदस्यों ने इस बात को रखा कि खर्चे में १०,००० करोड़ रुपये से अधिक की सेविंग्स इस साल के बजट में हमने करने का प्रयास किया और वह उस परिस्थिति में जबक…( व्यवधान) SHRI SHIVRAJ V. PATIL : If you yield, I would like to ask you a question. I would like to understand it. … (Interruptions) SHRI YASHWANT SINHA : Shivraj Patilji, it is not a reduction in the Plan expenditure. … (Interruptions) SHRI SHIVRAJ V. PATIL : If you yield, I would like to ask you. This is the only time when we can understand; otherwise, there is no possibility. … (Interruptions) We are discussing as to how deficit can be reduced. The hon. Minister is probably trying to tell us that the deficit can be reduced only by disinvestment and by reducing the subsidies. … (Interruptions) SOME HON. MEMBERS: No. … (Interruptions) SHRI SHIVRAJ V. PATIL : I am trying to ask him and I am trying to understand. I have not completed. … (Interruptions) SHRI YASHWANT SINHA : I did not say that. … (Interruptions) SHRI SHIVRAJ V. PATIL : I am trying to ask him. If you utilise the capacities that have been established in the production units in the country to the fullest, will you not get more revenue? If you have fixed the revenue targets in your Budget, and if you are not collecting the revenue and getting the revenue which you have fixed for yourself, how will you get it? … (Interruptions) If you are not reducing the cost overrun and the time overrun, how will you reduce it? … (Interruptions) Why do you not reduce cost overrun and time overrun and why do you not achieve the target which you have fixed for yourself? … (Interruptions) I am not accusing him; I am trying to understand it. … (Interruptions) This kind of objection is inviting ignorance. … (Interruptions) SHRI YASHWANT SINHA : The only clarification that I would like to offer is this. I never suggested that disinvestment was the only method of removing or bridging this gap. I never said that. … (Interruptions) I never said that, and I do not know why this misunderstanding is there. … (Interruptions) Mr. Deputy-Speaker, Sir, I was only referring to the receipts’ side – the fiscal deficit. Look at the rigidity of expenditure. Of our revenue receipts, as I said, 48 per cent is accounted for by interest payments alone. The defence accounts for 26 per cent; subsidies account for 16 per cent; together this accounts for 90 per cent of our revenues. अगर उसमें आप देखें तो इंटरेस्ट पेमेंट, डिफेंस, सब्सिडी, ग्रान्ट्स टू स्टेट, पेंशन, पुलिस यह अगर एक साथ ले लेते हैं तो89 per cent of the expenditure of the Government of India is accounted for by this. The balance 11 per cent is towards establishment, expenditure to the personal staff of Ministers, etc. All this is accounted for by 11 per cent. Where do we then have leeway? Where does the Finance Minister of the country have the flexibility? I have put this question to the House repeatedly. But this is a problem that the Finance Ministers before me have faced; this is the problem that I am facing today; and this is the problem which the Finance Minister of the future will face. How do we bridge the fiscal deficit gap? There are very convenient suggestions and there are very easy answers. But when you sit in office, you do not find those easy answers. इसलिए अगर इतना आसान होता, तो फिस्कल डैफसिट का रिकार्ड हमने इस मुल्क में कांग्रेस के उस गोल्डन-इरा रिजीम का मेटेन करके रखा हुआ है। एक माननीय सदस्य ने विक्रमादित्य से तुलना की थी। विक्रमादित्य के शासन के बाद अगर कोई बढि़या शासन, स्वर्णीम युग इस देश में आया था, तो उनका था। फिस्कल डैफसिट की स्थिति यह थी कि Nine per cent was the fiscal deficit in that golden era which Shri Mani Shankar Aiyar was referring to. इसलिए हम आपसे कहना चाहते हैं कि अगर इतनी आसानी से इस समस्या का समाधान होता, तो किसी-न-किसी ने इसका हल निकाल लिया होता। मैं आपसे यह भी कहना चाहता हूं कि राजैनतिक सहमति के अभाव में जब हम इस देश की सर्वोच्च पंचायत में बात कहते हैं, तो राजनैतिक सहमति का अभाव यहां दिखाई देता है, तो उससे समस्या के समाधान में मदद नहीं मिलती है। मैं यही एक छोटा सा विन्दू, उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, आपके सामने रखना चाहता हूं। महोदय, जब हम किसी योजना में घटाने-बढ़ाने के बारे में बात कहते हैं, तो जाहिर है, इसी सदन में कहा गया कि वल्र्ड बैंक, आईएमएफ और डब्ल्युटीओ तथा मल्टानेशन्ल कम्पनीज के दबाव में आकर यह बजट बना दिया। मैं आपसे बहुत-बहुत नम्रता के साथ, बहुत ही हयुमलिटी के साथ, उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, सदन से निवेदन करना चाहता हूं कि इस मानसिकता को हम निकाल दें। हमारे जो वामपंथी मित्र हैं, कल रूपचंद पाल जी बोल रहे थे । उन्होंने कल जाते हुए मुझे एक नोट देकर गए, शायद उनको कही जाना था, कहा कि वे आज सदन में उपस्थित नहीं रहेंगे। लेकिन वामपंथी मित्र जो यहां सदन में उपस्थित है, मैं उनसे निवेदन करना चाहूंगा, विशेष तौर से दूसरे भी सदस्य जो इस भ्रान्ति के शिकार हैं कि वल्र्ड बैंक, आईएमएफ और डब्ल्युटीओ तथा मल्टानेशन्ल कम्पनीज के दबाव में यह बजट बनाया है। श्री मुलायम सिंह यादव : भ्रान्ति मैं कौन हैं ? श्री यशवन्त सिन्हा : किसी की भी ताकत नहीं है कि भारत की नीतियों के ऊपर किसी प्रकार का कोई दबाव बना सकें। मैं यह किसी विश्वास के साथ कहना चाहता हूं, जब हम अंतरराष्ट्रीय संस्थाओं मे जाते हैं, पिछले चार वर्षों का अनुभव रहा है, तो हम शान के साथ जाते हैं और शान के साथ अपनी बात रखते हैं। श्री मुलायम सिंह यादव : दोहा में जब यहां से टेलीफोन गया, तभी व्यापार मंत्री ने दस्तखत किए और किसानों को बरबाद कर दिया। आप ऐसा कैसे कह सकते हैं। कोई कहे, तो कहे, लेकिन आप मत कहिए। श्री यशवन्त सिन्हा : महोदय, आईएमएफ के अन्तर्गत ३७ देश हैं, जो चल रहे हैं। हमारा पड़ोसी देश पाकिस्तान, श्रीलंका, बंगलादेश…( व्यवधान)कई देश हैं, जो आईएमएफ के दरवाजे पर गए हैं। रघुवंश जी ने अपने भाषण में एक बात कही थी। आपने कहा था - "जा के पैर न फटे बिवाई, ऊ क्या जाने पीड़ पराई।"मैं आपसे कहना चाहता हूं कि बैलेंस आफ पेमेट की स्थिति को अगर किसी ने भुगता है और स्थिति को जानता है, तो वह नाचीज है यशवंस सिन्हा, क्योंकि मैंने १९९०-९१ की स्थिति को देखा है। जब आपका एक बलियन रिजर्व रह जाता तो क्या स्थिति बनती। प्रधानमंत्री जी ने जब से इस पद की जिम्मेदारी मुझे दी है, तब से लगातार अगर एक लक्ष्य लेकर मैं चला तो यही लक्ष्य लेकर चला कि इस देश में और कुछ भी हो जाए, लेकिन हम दुनिया की अंतर्राष्ट्रीय संस्थाओं के सामने हाथ फैलाने का काम नहीं करेंगे। $ 25 billion is what we have added to our foreign-exchange reserves in these four years. Our foreign-exchange reserve has crossed $51 billion and has come close to $ 52 billion. उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, हम जब शासन में आए थे, उस समय से लेकर आज तक लगातार हम अपने एक्सटर्नल सैक्टर को कैसे सुद्ृढ़ रख सकते हैं, यह बात हमने बराबर सोची है। मैं चाहूंगा कि आप मेरे ऊपर इस बात का दोषारोपण कर सकते हैं कि ग्रोथ रेट चार प्रतिशत था, जो अब ५.४ प्रतिशत हो गया। ठीक है, इसे मैं स्वीकार करता हूं। आप मेरे ऊपर दोषारोपण कीजिए, मैं स्वीकार करूंगा। फज़िकल डेफसिट के ऊपर नियंत्रण नहीं हुआ, मैं स्वीकार करता हूं। मुझे बहुत पीड़ा और तकलीफ हुई, जब इस साल का फज़िकल डेफसिट मैंने इसी सदन में कहा कि ४.७ के बदले ५.७होगा। इस साल ५.३ करते वक्त मुझे अंदर से बहुत तकलीफ हो रही थी। इसलिए इस बजट में मैं किसी लोकप्रियता के लिए नहीं गया, क्योंकि मुझे लगा कि सरकार को सबसे महत्वपूर्ण काम यह करना है कि अपने घाटे को कम करें, क्योंकि ऑलरेडी हमारे सामने बहुत ज्यादा है। उसी बजट स्ट्रेटजी के तहत हमने अपने बजट को बनाया है। उसके बाद ग्रोथ की बात आती है कि डिमांड कैसे बढ़ेगी, बहुत तरह की बातें आईं। हमने कृषि के ऊपर विशेष ध्यान एक बार फिर दिया है और मैं यह कोई नारेबाजी के लिए नहीं कह रहा हूं। ‘Kisan ki azadi’ was not a slogan mongering. मैं यहां कहना चाहता हूं कि जब से आर्थिक उदारवाद की नीति इस देश में चली है, हमने सिर्फ अपने औद्योगिक क्षेत्र की चिन्ता की है कि उसमें उदारवाद कैसे हो। एक्सटर्नल सैक्टर में कैसे उदारवाद हो। किसान, कृषि और ग्रामीण क्षेत्र के बारे में, उसमें उदारवादी नीतियां लागू करने के बारे में जितना हमें सोचना चाहिए, उतना सोचने का काम नहीं किया गया। इसलिए मैंने कहा कि किसान के ऊपर जितने नियंत्रण हैं, उन्हें हटाने का काम किया जाए। पिछले बजट में भी मैंने इस बात को कहा था और सरकार ने केबिनेट में बैठ कर फैसला किया कि हम उन नियंत्रणों को समाप्त करेंगे। इस साल के बजट में भी उसी परम्परा और प्रक्रिया को आगे बढ़ाते हुए हम चाहते हैं कि और स्वतंत्रता मिले। मुलायम सिंह जी, सुमन जी तथा कई अन्य माननीय सदस्यों ने यहां बार-बार आलू के सवाल को उठाया। काफी प्लांटेशन की बात देवेगौड़ा जी ने की, रबड़ की बात थामस जी और जार्ज साहब ने की। हमारी बहुत सारी जो कृषि की उपज है, उसकी कीमत हमें अच्छी मिल सकती है। अभी शांता कुमार जी, हमारे सहयोगी मंत्री जी ने मुझे आंकड़े बताए कि सवा चार हजार करोड़ रुपए का निर्यात हमने गेहूं का और थोड़ा-बहुत चावल का, दोनों का मिला कर किया है। ७४ लाख टन अनाज का निर्यात किया है। आज भारत अनाज निर्यातक के रूप में दुनिया में पहचाना जा रहा है। वह भारत, जोकि भीख का कटोरा लेकर दुनिया भर में घूमता-फिरता था, हम लोग पीएल ४८० को नहीं भूले हैं,…( व्यवधान)इस देश को उसे नहीं भूलना चाहिए।…( व्यवधान) SHRI PRIYA RANJAN DASMUNSI : For this credit must go to Smt. Indira Gandhi. It is not your contribution. … (Interruptions) श्री पवन कुमार बंसल ( चंडीगढ़ ) : आप पहले कुछ और कह रहे थे और अब कुछ और कह रहे हो।…( व्यवधान) श्री यशवन्त सिन्हा : उपाध्यक्ष जी, रघुवंश प्रसाद जी उस समय पीठासीन थे, कुर्सी पर आसीन थे।…( व्यवधान)मैंने १४ घंटे धैर्य के साथ बिना टोका-टाकी किये आपको सुना है। केवल जब माननीय देवगौड़ा जी बोल रहे थे तो स्पष्टीकरण के लिए एक वाक्य मैंने कहा था। मैं अपने उस तरफ के मित्रों से निवेदन करूंगा कि वे सच्चाई सुनने के लिए थोड़ा धैर्य रखें।…( व्यवधान)थोड़ा सच्चाई को सुनने की आदत डालिये। श्री प्रियरंजन दासमुंशी : सच्चाई को कबूल करने के लिए भी हिम्मत चाहिए।…( व्यवधान) श्री यशवन्त सिन्हा : फूड फॉर वर्क प्रोग्राम के बारे में जब रघुवंश बाबू पीठासीन थे तब यहां से कहा गया कि हमने जो बीपीएल, एपीएल में अनाज दिया वह क्यों दिया, वह गलत दिया। एपीएल, बीपीएल चल रहा है। अंत्योदय की योजना किसने शुरू की थी? इस सरकार ने शुरू की थी। माननीय मणिशंकर जी कह रहे थे कि कीमतों के चलते ऑफ-टेक नहीं हो रहा है। हम दो रुपये किलो गेहूं और तीन रुपये किलो चावल बेच रहे हैं, क्या कभी कांग्रेस ने इतने सस्ते दामों पर बेचा।…( व्यवधान) श्री प्रियरंजन दासमुंशी : जिन लोगों के पास राशन कार्ड पुराने हैं उनको कुछ नहीं मिल रहा है। …( व्यवधान)आप क्या बात कह रहे हैं?…( व्यवधान) श्री यशवन्त सिन्हा : फूड फॉर वर्क प्रोग्राम के लिए हमने उनको ३० लाख टन से ज्यादा अनाज उपलब्ध कराया है।…( व्यवधान) श्री मणि शंकर अय्यर ( मइलादुतुरई ): यह आप क्या कह रहे हैं?…( व्यवधान) MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: Shri Mani Shankar Aiyar, please take your seat. … (Interruptions) श्री यशवन्त सिन्हा : उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, मैं अपने कांग्रेस के मित्रों से कहूंगा कि वे ऐसे बीच में टोक कर क्या साधारण शिष्टाचार की बात कर रहे हैं। क्या मैं साधारण शिष्टाचार के योग्य भी नहीं हूं जो बार-बार मुझे टोका जा रहा है।…( व्यवधान) श्री प्रियरंजन दासमुंशी : आप गलत क्यों बोल रहे हैं। श्री राम नगीना मिश्र : आप बीच में क्यों टोका-टाकी कर रहे हैं।…( व्यवधान) श्री यशवन्त सिन्हा : आपने जितनी गलत बातें कहीं, मैंने तो एक बार भी टोकने का कार्य नहीं किया। तीस लाख टन अनाज,…( व्यवधान)संपूर्ण ग्रामीण रोजगार योजना, यह योजना क्या है…( व्यवधान)यह फूड फॉर वर्क प्रोग्राम है।…( व्यवधान)आप थोड़ा धैर्य से सुनें। मैंने भी आपको धैर्य से सुना है।…( व्यवधान) श्री मणि शंकर अय्यर : आप अपने सदस्यों को देखें, जो २०-२० इकट्ठे खड़े हो जाते हैं। क्या यह शिष्टाचार है? इसी को क्या शिष्टाचार कहते हैं? MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: You had your say. … (Interruptions) MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: Shri Aiyar, please do not interrupt now. श्री रघुनाथ झा ( गोपालगंज ): उपाध्यक्ष जी, मुझे लगता है कि राज्य सभा सदस्य माननीय अमर सिंह जी को बुलाना पड़ेगा। श्री यशवन्त सिन्हा : मैं बहुत विनम्रता के साथ कहना चाहता हूं कि वाद-प्रतिवाद और एक-दूसरे की आलोचना के लिए यह सदन बना है। हम सरकार में हैं। आप हमारी आलोचना कर सकते हैं। जब आप सरकार में होंगे, हम आपकी आलोचना करेंगे। उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, लोकनायक जयप्रकाश नारायण रोजगार गारंटी योजना की घोषणा मैंने अपने बजट में की लेकिन उसकी बहुत चर्चा नहीं हुई। मैं अपने मीडिया के मित्रों से कहना चाहता हूं कि डविडैंड डिस्ट्रीब्यूशन टैक्स की बहुत चर्चा हुई लेकिन लोकनायक जयप्रकाश रोजगार गांरंटी योजना की चर्चा कहीं नही आई। इसके अन्तर्गत इस देश में जो सबसे पिछड़े जिले हैं. जहां सबसे ज्यादा आबादी कमजोर वर्गो, अनुसूचित जातियों, अनुसूचित जनजातियों, पिछड़े वर्गों और महिलाओं की है, ऐसे जिलों को चुना जाएगा। मैं यह क्लेम नहीं कर रहा हूं कि यह मेरा बड़ा ब्रलियेंट आइडिया ऑरजिनल है। कांग्रेस के मुख्यमंत्री के साथ प्रधान मंत्री जी ने एक स्टैडिंग कमेटी बनायी है। उनके साथ समय-समय पर हमारी चर्चा होती है। उसमें यह सुझाव रखा गया कि सम्पूर्ण रोजगार योजना पूरे देश के हर जिले में चलेगी लेकिन जो डिस्ट्रैस्ड डिस्टि्रक्ट्स हैं, उनके लिए एक विशेष योजना हो। जयप्रकाश नारायण जी के नाम पर जो रोजगार गारंटी योजना की घोषणा की है, उसके लिए रूरल डैवलपमैंट मनिस्टर श्री वैंकय्या नायडू के नेतृत्व में एक समूह बनेगा जो इस योजना की देखभाल करेगा। उसमें हमारा उद्देश्य क्या होगा? उसमें सेल्फ एम्पलायमैंट और वेज एम्पलायमैंट दोनों को मिला कर हर बेरोजगार व्यक्ति को काम देने की गारंटी दी जाएगी। इसके साथ-साथ ग्रेन बैंक की भी चर्चा हुई। इस प्रकार के क्षेत्रों में अगर वहां की पंचायत चाहे, या वहां वैल रेटिड एनजीओ के माध्यम से हम ग्रेन बैंक स्कीम उन जिलों में शुरु करना चाहते हैं ताकि वहां कोई भूखे पेट सोने के लिए विवश न हो। यह बात मैंने इस सदन के सामने रखी। हम इस योजना को शीघ्र से शीघ्र लागू करेंगे और गारंटी देंगे। इसके अलावा जितने ट्राइबल डिस्टि्रक्ट्स हैं, उनके लिए हमारी योजना मुख्यमंत्रियों के साथ बैठक करके तैयार हो गई है। हम देश में इस प्रकार की ग्रेन बैंक स्कीम शुरु करने जा रहे हैं। हमारे गोदामों में जो गल्ला पड़ा है, वह मुफ्त का नहीं है। हमने उसे बाजार से खरीदा है, एफसीआई ने उसे खरीदा है। उसकी इकॉनोमिक कॉस्ट काफी मंहगी है। हम मुफ्ट में अनाज ग्रेन बैंक के लिए, फूड फॉर वर्क के लिए, ग्रामीण रोजगार योजना के लिए, जयप्रकाश नारायण रोजगार गारंटी योजना के लिए राज्यों को उपलब्ध करा रहे हैं। उनके लिए एक पैसा भी चार्ज नहीं कर रहे हैं। इसका भार केन्द्र सरकार के ऊपर पड़ेगा। गरीबी के आंकड़ों को लेकर यहां बहुत चर्चा हुई। मुझे याद है सदन में पिछले वर्ष भी इसकी चर्चा हुई। गरीबी के आंकड़ों के बारे में नेशनल सैम्पल सर्वे ऑर्गेनाइजेशन ने १९९३-१९९९ के पीरियड का एक सर्वे किया था। उसमें यह निष्कर्ष आया कि गरीबी की रेखा के नीचे रहने वालों की संख्या ३६ प्रतिशत से घट कर २६ प्रतिशत तक आ गई है। मैथॉडॉलोजी क्या बदल गई? इसकी विस्तार से चर्चा हुई थी। एक ३० डेज रीकॉल होता है। एनएसएसओ का एन्यूमेरेटर जाकर पूछता है कि पिछले ३० दिनों में क्या-क्या खाया? उसे बताया जाता है कि यह खाया। वे इसी बेस पर एन्यूमेरेट करते हैं। अब तक जितने गरीबी के आंकड़े कॉलैक्ट हुए हैं, वे ३० डेज रीकॉल के आधार पर हुए हैं। इस बार इन्होंने ३० डेज रीकॉल के बारे में पूछा है। श्री लक्ष्मण सिंह : क्या उसमें आम की गुठली जोड़ ली है? श्री यशवन्त सिन्हा : श्री दिग्विजय सिंह जी को भी जोड़ लिया है। इस बार इन्होंने यह भी पूछा कि पिछले सात दिनों में क्या खाया? इस प्रकार एक ७ डेज रीकॉल हुआ। ३० डेज रीकॉल के बेसिस पर ३६ परसैंट टू २६ परसैंट है। On the basis of seven-day recall, it is 36 per cent to 23 per cent. लेकिन हम २३ प्रतिशत की ३६ प्रतिशत से तुलना नहीं कर रहे बल्कि हम ३६ प्रतिशत और २६ प्रतिशत की तुलना कर रहे हैं जो ३० डेज़ रिकॉल के ऊपर है। श्री मणिशंकर अय्यर ने हमारे सहयोगी मित्र श्री अरुण शौरी पर आरोप लगाया। श्री शौरी आजकल मैक्सिको में एक महत्वपूर्ण कांफ्रेस अटैंड कर रहे हैं। श्री अय्यर ने कहा कि वे उनके साथ पढ़ते थे Shri Mani Shankar Aiyar has said that Shri Arun Shourie has fudged the figures. He leaked it to the Press. इतना बड़ा आरोप इन्होने उनके ऊपर लगा दिया। मैं कहना चाहता हूं कि आप जरा इसकी तह मे जाकर देखें The National Sample Survey Organisation (NSSO) is an independent agency, which conducts these surveys on behalf of the Government. आप एन.एस.एस.ओ. की बात छोड़ दीजिये।The Government does not have control over the Central Statistical Organisation (CSO). क्या मैं उनसे लड़ने गया? हमने उसे स्वीकार कर लिया As the Finance Minister or as any Minister, we do not even seek to influence the CSO, much less the NSSO. एन.एस.एस.ओ. आज नहीं बना, यह १९५० से चला आ रहा है जिसके अध्यक्ष स्व. श्री बिसारिया थे जो इस देश के अपने जमाने में जाने-माने अर्थशास्त्री थे। उनके नेतृत्व में यह सर्वे का काम हुआ। अब इस बारे में यह कह देना कि श्री शौरी ने फिगर्स फज करा दी तो मैं कहूंगा कि यह उचित नही कि आप उनके ऊपर आरोप लगा दें जब वे स्टैसटिक्स विभाग के मंत्री थे। उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, यहां १९९३ से १९९९ की बात हो रही है। मैं माननीय सदस्यों से जानना चाहता हूं कि १९९३-९४, १९९४-९५, १९९५-९६ में किस का शासन था? १९९६-९७ और १९९७-९८ में किसका शासन था? श्री देवेगौडा, श्री इन्द्र कुमार गुजराल का था जब कि उसके तीन साल पहले श्री नरसिंह राव का शासन था। उसमें हमारे दो वर्ष १९९८-९९ और १९९९-०० आये तो क्या आप दो वर्ष को कंडेम करने के लिये अपने तीन वर्षों को भी कंडेम करने के लिये तैयार हैं? In 2001, the growth rate was four per cent. What is the issue? यह कह देना का फिगर्स फज कराई जा रही हैं लेकिन जो फिगर्स कलैक्ट करने का तरीका है, उसमें कमजोरी है, कमी है। इसलियेIn 1997 Budget, we said that in order to remove those weaknesses, we would appoint an Expert Committee. हमने आन्ध्रा प्रदेश के गवर्नर और रिजर्व बैंक के भूतपूर्व गवर्नर श्री रंगराजन की अध्यक्षता में एक एक्सपर्ट कमेटी बनाई जिसने इस बात पर विचार किया कि कैसे इस देश में फिगर्स इक्ट्ठी की जाती हैं। उसने बहुत ही महत्वपूर्ण प्रतिवेदन दिया है जिस पर सरकार विचार कर रही है क्योंकि हम चाहते हैं कि हमारे आंकड़े इस प्रकार के हों जिसकी विश्वसनीयता पर कोई आंच न आये। हमने इस प्रकार की चिन्ता की है लेकिन आप लोगों को हल्के ढंग से नहीं लेना चाहिये। उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, दूसरी बात यहां यह आई कि पब्लिक सेविंग के आंकड़े गिरते जा रहे हैं। इकौनमिक सर्वे के जो आंकड़े हैं They are very instructive. श्री मुलायम सिंह यादव :माननीय मंत्री जी, ये लिखे हुये हैं, इसे क्या पढ़ेंगे? श्री यशवंत सिन्हा; लेकिन इसे पढ़ना इसलिये जरूरी है कि कुछ लोगों को समझाना जरूरी है। इस बात पर चर्चा की गई है कि डोमैस्टिक हाउसहोल्ड, प्राइवेट कारपोरेटे सैक्टर और पब्लिक सैक्टर में सेविंग रेट गिर गया है लेकिन हम यह कहेंगे कि लोगो ने सेविंग करना कम कर दिया है 

There are three savings – domestic household, private corporate sector and public sector. मैं आपको बताना चाहता हूं कि २००१ के जो आंकड़े हैं The latest figures, that is 2000-01, would show that the domestic household savings have gone up to 20.9 per cent, the highest ever recorded in this country. Now, the household saving is 20.9 per cent and this is the highest ever in the history of this country. प्राइवेट सैक्टर सेविंग २०००-२००१ में कितनी थी, वह ४.२ परसेन्ट थी। The overall saving rate was 23.4 per cent, which is an improvement over 23.2 per cent of the previous year and 21.7 per cent of the year before that. But why did it come down? It is because the public sector, which includes the Government of India, State Governments etc., had a minus saving rate of 1.7 per cent. That is what has brought it down. पब्लिक सैक्टर सेविंग रेट जो हमारा कम हो गया, वह क्यों कम हो गया। यह कोई पहली बार कम नहीं हुआ है। १९८६-८७ में पहली बार यह माइनस हो गया, उसके बाद से लगातार गिरता रहा और जब पांचवे पे कमीशन की मार केन्द्र सरकार और राज्य सरकारों के ऊपर पड़ी।Then this public sector saving has increased considerably. This is the reason why the rate of domestic saving in this country has come down, not because of household saving which has been going up consistently.मैं आपसे कहना चाहता हूं कि हम आपस में लड़ते हैं कि गरीब हटी या नहीं। इस सदन में जो चर्चा होती है वह दुनिया भर के लोग देखते हैं। श्री मणिशंकर अय्यर जी बहुत फेमस हिन्दुस्तानी है। मैं राजा हिन्दुस्तानी तो नहीं कहूंगा। लेकिन बहुत मशहूर हिन्दुस्तानी हैं और देश-विदेश में लोग उन्हें जानते हैं। उन्होंने कह दिया कि हमारे पावर्टी के आंकड़े गलत हैं। लेकिन मैं आपसे कहना चाहता हूं कि यहां पर कई सदस्यों ने कहा कि क्वालिटी ऑफ लाइफ, लोग जिस प्रकार का जीवन जी रहे हैं, उसमें कौन सा अन्तर आया है। मैं आपको सिर्फ इतना कहना चाहूंगा कि अगर आप गरीबी के आंकड़ों को क्वालिटी ऑफ लाइफ के आंकड़ों के साथ मिलाकर देखें तो आप पायेंगे कि वे अलग-थलग नहीं है। उनका कहीं न कहीं संबंध है। मैं उसके विस्तार में जाना नहीं चाहता हूं। लेकिन हयूमैन डेवलपमैन्ट रिपोर्ट जो यू.एन.डी.पी. की है और हमारे यहां इकोनोमिक सर्वे के जो आंकड़े हैं, वे पूरा का पूरा इसको शो करते हैं। उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, मैं सिर्फ एक और चीज की तरफ आपका ध्यान आकृष्ट करना चाहूंगा। क्योंकि इस बात को बहुत लोग नहीं जानते हैं कि हमारे देश में इकोनोमिक सर्वे के पेज नम्बर १२५ ऊपर दिया हुआ हैं। The expenditure on foodgrains has been consistently coming down. तो हम कहेंगे कि क्या लोगों ने खाना कम कर दिया। यह निष्कर्ष कोई निकाल सकता है कि एक्सपेन्डीचर ऑफ फूड ग्रेन्स टोटल एक्सपेन्डीचर का कम हो रहा है तो क्या हुआ।From 63.10 per cent in 1972-73, it has come down to 44.10 per cent in 1999-2000 for rural areas and similarly it has come down to 31.85 per cent for urban areas. But what about the expenditure on fruits and vegetables? That has gone up considerably. What about the expenditure on milk, eggs and fish? That has also gone up considerably. This shows a change in the consumption pattern of our people. This shows the improvement in the quality of life of our people. These are the statistics and you are most welcome to believe in them. उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, एक-दो बातें जो यहां कही गई, दुर्भाग्य से बहुत विस्तार से उनमें जाने का मौका नहीं है। लेकिन जॉर्ज साहब, श्री पी.सी.थॉमस साहब ने और हमारे मित्रों ने एक बात उठाई थी और उन्होंने कहा है इम्पोर्ट डयूटी लेटेक्स रबड़ के ऊपर हमने ३५ से बढ़ाकर ७० प्रतिशत कर दी है। लेकिन स्मोक शीट के ऊपर २५ प्रतिशत ही क्यों छोड़ दिया, क्यों नहीं हम इसे ७० प्रतिशत कर पाये। मैं इसलिए नहीं कर सकता हूं, कु.ममता बनर्जी और अन्य मित्रों ने यह भी सवाल उठाया कि विदेशी शराब के ऊपर मैंने डयूटी कम कर दी। चाहे वह रबड़ शीट हो, चाहे विदेशी शराब हो, किस दस्तावेज से हम आज के दिन बंधे हैं। वह दस्तावेज, जिसके ऊपर १९९४ में माराकेश में उस समय की कांग्रेस सरकार ने हस्ताक्षर किये थे।…( व्यवधान)डब्ल्यू.टी.ओ. पर किसने हस्ताक्षर किये। Shri Francis George, I want to tell you that the W.T.O. fixes the rate of smoke-sheet rubber at 25 per cent. The Chief Minister of Kerala, belonging to the Congress Party, has written a letter to our Minister of Commerce. I am quoting his expression. The Chief Minister has said: "The mistake of 1994 should be corrected." My colleague, Shri Maran has taken up that issue in the WTO so that they can revise the bound rate of rubber. SHRI MANI SHANKAR AIYAR : What has this to do with liquor? SHRI YASHWANT SINHA : You have to reduce the import duty on liquor under the WTO Agreement that you signed. I have to reduce it. SHRI MANI SHANKAR AIYAR : Will you tell us what is the bound rate of liquor? SHRI YASHWANT SINHA : It is 182 per cent. That is what I have said this year. और आपको सोचना चाहिए था उस समय जब आपने हस्ताक्षर किये डब्लू.टी.ओ. पर कि विदेशी शराब जैसी वस्तु पर क्यों बाउंड रेट हम एक्सेप्ट करने जा रहे हैं। हम डब्लू.टी.ओ. में इन सब चीजों का विरोध कर रहे हैं। हम प्रयास कर रहे हैं कि इऩसे हमें मुक्ति मिले, इस देश को मुक्ति मिले। उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, यहां अनेक प्रश्न उठाए गए हैं। समय बहुत हो गया है, मैं सबका उत्तर देने की स्थिति में नहीं हूँ, लेकिन इतना जरूर निवेदन करूँगा कि जितने सुझाव हमारे सदस्यों और विपक्ष के सदस्यों की तरफ से आए हैं, उन सारे सुझावों को बहुत नियमित रूप से मैंने नोट किया है, हमारे पदाधिकारियों ने भी नोट किया है। बहुत सारे टैक्स के मुद्दे उठाए गए। जब फाइनेन्स बिल पर चर्चा होगी तो हम टैक्स के ऊपर चर्चा करेंगे, लेकिन बहुत सारी जो बातें यहां पर उठाई गई हैं, निश्चित रूप से उन सुझावों पर सरकार विचार करेगी। सरकार संवेदनशील है, सरकार समझती है कहां तकलीफ है, क्या है और इसलिए हम प्रयास करते हैं जो ओवरआल फ्रेमवर्क है, उसमें हम ठीक कर सकें।…( व्यवधान) उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, मैं एक बात कहकर अपनी बात समाप्त करता हूँ। हमने अपने बजट भाषण में कहा था कि हम आऱ.बी.आई. का जो रिलीफ फंड है, उसमें दो लाख रुपये की सीमा प्रति वर्ष बांधी थी कि दो लाख रुपये से अधिक जमा नहीं कर सकते क्योंकि मेरे पास सूचना थी कि बहुत से लोग उसमें करोड़ों रुपया जमा करके टैक्स का लाभ उठा रहे हैं। छोटे निवेशकों से कोई झगड़ा नहीं है, छोटे निवेशकों को हतोत्साहित करने के लिए कोई कदम नहीं उठाया गया है। छोटे निवेशकों के नाम पर जो घड़ियाली आँसू बहा रहे हैं, वही हाई नैटवर्क इनडविजुअल्स हैं जो करोड़ों रुपये लगाकर टैक्स फ्री इंस्ट्रूमेन्ट्स में पूरे का पूरा इनकम टैक्स फ्री बना देते हैं और दो करोड़ से १५ करोड़ रुपये साल भर में बचाने वाला कोई साधारण व्यक्ति इस देश का नहीं है। लेकिन फिर भी मुझे यह बताया गया कि जो लोग रिटायर हो रहे हैं, चाहे गवर्नमेंट के हों, पब्लिक सेक्टर के हों, बैंक के हों, लोकल बॉडीज़ के हों या प्राइवेट सैक्टर के हों, ऐसे लोग जो धन रखेंगे, सरकारी पदाधिकारियों के लिए एक अलग से स्कीम है कि उसमें वह अपने धन को जमा कर सकते हैं जिसमें टैक्स की छूट भी मिलती है और सीमा भी अधिक है। इसलिए प्राइवेट सैक्टर भी इसमें आ जाए और सबके लिए यह छूट उपलब्ध हो, इसलिए सरकार की तरफ से हमने तय किया है कि जो रिटायरिंग इंप्लॉइज़ हैं - गवर्नमेंट के, पब्लिक सैक्टर के, बैंक्स के और प्राइवेट सैक्टर के, उन रिटायरिंग इंप्लाइज को अपना जो टर्मिनल बैनफिट है, रिटायरमैंट का बैनफिट है, उस राशि को रिलीफ बॉन्ड में जमा करने में हम कोई सीमा नहीं बांधेंगे, उनको जितना मिलता है, उसमें वह जमा कर सकते हैं। उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, मैं आपका बहुत-बहुत आभारी हूँ कि आपने मुझे बोलने के लिए समय दिया। …( व्यवधान) MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: I shall now put the Demands for Grants on Account (General) for 2002-2003 to vote. The question is : The motion was adopted. MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: I shall now put the Supplementary Demands for Grants (General) for 2001-2002 to vote. The question is : The motion was adopted. MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: I shall now put the Demands for Excess Grants (General) for 1998-1999 to vote. The question is : The motion was adopted. ____________