Vimal Gandhi, Judicial Member 1. These two appeals - one by the revenue for the assessment year 1989-90 and the other by the assessee for the year 1990-91 involve a common point - whether the assessee is a "Supporting Manufacturer" under Proviso to Sub-section (1) of Section 80 HHC. 2. For the assessment year 1989-90, the assessee claimed deduction of Rs. 1,94,44,205 in respect of sale of Rs. 7,48,83,580 made to export house for purposes of export. The 'supporting manufacturer' is defined as per Explanation to Sub-section (4A) of Section 80HHC as under: 3. The assessee further contended that word "manufacturer" is not defined in Section 80HHC but should have the same meaning as given in Sections 10A and 10B of the Income-tax Act, 1961 as the above two sections and Section 80HHC were introduced to serve the same purpose, le., to encourage earning of foreign exchange. The assessee in this connection placed reliance on history notes and comments and speeches of Finance Minister relating to abovementioned provisions. For the purposes of Section 10B , the word "manufacturer" included a "process". The assessee further relied upon the decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Suresh Chand v. Gulam Chisti AIR 1990 SC 897 (907) wherein it has been held that "ordinarily the rule of construction is that the same expression when it appears more than once in the same statute, more so in the same provision, must receive the same meaning unless the context suggests otherwise". The assessee also relied upon the decision of Hon'ble Calcutta High Court in the ease of CITv. Union Carbide India Ltd. [1987] 165 ITR 550 and also on the decision of Hon'ble Kerala High Court in the case of CITv. Mar well Sea Foods [1987] 166.ITR 624 to justify its claim that it is a supporting manufacturer. 4. The learned Assessing Officer rejected the above claim. She concluded that the assessee had purchased de-skinned carcasses from different persons and after deboning, cleaning, freezing and packing sold it to export house under different trade names. She further observed as follows: 8.1 The definition of "manufacture" from Sections 10A and 10B could not be incorporated in Section 80HHC as the contexts of two sections were different. Smt. Sinha further submitted that case of S. Mohan Lai v. R. Kondiah AIR 1979 SC 1132 in fact supported the case of the revenue if the separate context of provision was taken into account. The word "production" used in Section 10A / 10B was much wider than the word "manufacture" specifically used in Section 80HHC . For this proposition she placed reliance on the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of CIT v. N.C. Budharaja & Co. [1993] 204 ITR 412. According to Smt. Sinha provisions of Section 80HHC were required to be strictly construed. For this proposition, Smt. Sinha relied upon commentary of "lyengar on Income-tax" 7th Edition, page 65. She also submitted that freezing process carried by the asscssee does not tantamount to manufacture and for this purpose Smt. Sinha relied upon decision in Sterling Foods v. State of Karnataka [1986] 53 STC 239 (SC) (sic). In addition to cases cited by the Assessing Officer in the assessment order Smt. Sinha relied upon the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of Choivgule & Co. (P.) Ltd. v. Union of India AIR 1981 SC 1014 wherein the Supreme Court held that blending of ore of different qualities for obtaining ore of requisite specifications tantamounts to processing but not manufacture as even after mixing the resultant ore is not commercially new and distinct commodity from the ores blended together. 9. Smt. Sinha maintained that assessee carried only processing of meat/ mutton, which was not transferred to any different commercial commodity through the freezing or other processes carried on by the assessee. In this connection, with reference to "purchase of raw materials" given at page 16 of the paper book, she pointed out that assessee correctly showed that sheep carcasses and mutton cubes were purchased and not live animals as claimed by the assessee. She further drew our attention to details of expenses claimed, which did not show any expenses except for removal of waste meat. Further with reference to balance-sheet and depreciation chart, she submitted that assessee mainly owned cold storage plant and generators. Generators cannot be treated as plant utilised for manufacturing activity. Thus details of assets held by the assessee further showed that no other process except freezing of meat was carried by the assessee. Smt. Sinha further submitted that buffaloes shown in the purchase bills were only meat of buffalo carcasses, which was clear from weight and other details given in the bills. Thus raw material and the end-product remained neat without any transformation. Smt. Sinha accordingly submitted that assessee was not entitled to any relief. Smt. Sinha also relied upon the decisions in the case of Delhi Cold Storage (P.) Ltd. v. CIT [1991] 191 ITR 656 (SC) and in the case of Koshy's (P.) Ltd. v. CJT [1985] 154 ITR 53 (Kar.). 10. Shri C.S. Aggarwal, learned Counsel for the assessee supported the impugned order of CIT (Appeals) for the assessment year 1989-90. He highlighted by filing a chart at page 65, different processes carried on by the assessee. He maintains that assessee had acquired live buffaloes, carried process of manufacture and then supplied packed meat for export to the exporting house. The assessee was, therefore, entitled to relief as supporting manufacturer. In particular, he drew our attention to licence granted to the assessee to slaughter animals for purposes of export. Our attention was further drawn to health certificates issued by the Slaughter House, Municipal Corporation, Delhi wherein it was specifically certified that slaughter was carried for export for the assessee. Shri Aggarwal drew our attention to the slaughter fee paid by the assessee for obtaining licence. It is further submitted that by APEDA and other public author ties the assessee was treated as manufacturer. Shri Aggarwal also relied upon the reasonings given by the learned CIT (Appeals) in her order for the assessment year 1990-91. Our attention was drawn to the decision of Karnataka High Court in the case of CIT v. Baraka Overseas Traders [1993) 201 ITR 827 wherein process of marine products and beef was held to be manufacture and production of articles for purposes of Section 80HHC of the Act. Shri Aggarwal also relied upon earlier decision of the Kerala High Court in the case of Marwell Sea Foods (supra). Shri Aggarwal further relied upon several decisions of the Tribunal wherein similar processes carried on by the assessee were held to be the manufacturing process. It was further submitted that context and purposes of Section 80HHC and of Sections 10A and 10B were same and, therefore, definition of "manufacture" given in the later sections was also applicable to provisions of Section 80 HHC. Shri Aggarwal further submitted that under main provision of Section 80 HHC(1), the exporter of goods or merchandise was entitled to benefits and it was not necessary that exporter should be a manufacturer or producer. As per proviso to the above section, the exporter could part with benefits to the supporting manufacturer by issuing a disclaimer in his favour. The word "manufacture" has to be construed liberally in the light of main provision of Section 80HHC . Shri Aggarwal further submitted that words "(including processing)" added through Finance Act, 1990 w.e.f. 1-4-1991 were clarificatory or declaratory in character added only to remove a defect or omission. These were inserted merely to avoid complication in cases of processors, who were being wrongly denied benefit of proviso to Section 80HHC (1) . The provision was retrospective in operation. Shri Aggarwal accordingly submitted that assessee was entitled to benefit of provisions. 11. We have given careful thought to the rival submissions of the parties. There is no dispute that export house in this case issued necessary certificate referred to in Clause (b) of Sub-section (4 A) of the Act and all other conditions of the section (except of being manufacturer) are admittedly satisfied by the assessee in both the years. The assessee claims to be a supporting manufacturer, whereas the revenue treats it to be a processor, as basic components of the goods supplied for export remained unaltered on account of process applied by the assessee. The assessee acquired meat and supplied meat for export, which, according to the revenue, was the same commercial article. However, having regard to the facts brought on record by the assessee we are of the view that the assessee is entitled to benefit under Section 80 HHC of the Income-tax Act, 1961. 12. It is no doubt true that in the books the assessee has shown purchases of carcasses of buffaloes and goats but from this, it does not follow that the assessee, purchased meat, the same commercial article which was ultimately sold for export. It is seen that right from the beginning, the assessee in every explanation, claimed before the Assessing Officer and other authorities that its process started with selection of live buffaloes/ goats, which were brought at the factory premises and were selected after visual examination. The selected animals were taken to the Slaughter House for slaughter. The sissessee did not claim to have purchased animal at that stage because the assessee was not interested in the skin of the live animals as it did not possess facility of tannery. The skin was disposed of by the owner of the animal separately. 13. The selected live animals were then taken to the Slaughter House where the animals were slaughtered for and on behalf of the assessee. This is clear from the certificates placed by the assessee at pages 70 to 76 of the paper book. It may be mentioned here that for carrying slaughter of animals even at Slaughter House, a licence is necessary and that licence is admittedly possessed by the assessee. The licence is limited only for purposes of export of meat. The assessee cannot carry slaughter of animals for sale in the local market. The licence further carry several conditions/restrictions detailed in the licence, including obtaining of health certificate before carcasses are removed from the premises. The licence further provides that blood, offal and certain parts like Spinal Cords, Ovaries, other inedible parts, Glands, condemned meat, etc. and other waste material of slaughtered animals shall be Municipal Corporation property. The health certificates issued by the Corporation specifically certified that slaughter of animals was carried in Halal Section of Municipal Slaughter House for export. The name of the assessee is also specifically mentioned. It is further certified as per certificate that animals are free from Anthrax and Salmonellosis. 14. Having regard to be above facts, particularly to the health certificate, required to be obtained from the Corporation as also the standard of different statutory authorities including Indian Standard, the assessee as exporter is required to meet the selection of healthy and proper animals before slaughter is of paramount importance. In the booklet issued by the Indian Standard under the heading (Specification for Beef and Buffalo Flesh-Fresh, Chilled and Frozen) regarding grades of Beef Carcasses, it is provided as under : 14.1 The above desired conformation could be obtained at the stage of selection and not later. The revenue did not controvert that the assessee selected live animals. Even otherwise, there is ample material on record to hold that process carried on by the assessee started with selection of animals. The animal no doubt is not purchased as assessee is not interested in the skin of the live animals. The selected animal is then carried to the Slaughter House where slaughter is carried for the assessee under the licence held by it. After the slaughter, de-skinning is not carried on by the assessee. However; having regard to the assessee's vested interest in the carcasses not in skin, the process is carried as per requirement of the assessee. After de-skinning, the carcasses are handed over to the assessee and are taken to area No. 1 where they are inspected for visual defects. About other processes carried on by the assessee like pre-cooling before de-boning, trimming, etc. etc. there is no dispute between the parties. The de-skinning as stated earlier is not actually carried by the assessee nor the skin of animal is purchased by it. But for holding a person to be manufacturer, it is not necessary that all proceeses of manufacture should be actually carried on by the person. In the case of CST v. Dr. Sukhdeo [1964] 23 STC 385 [sic) (referred by the Assessing Officer at page 9 of her order for 1989-90) it is observed by the Supreme Court that a manufacturer is a person by whom or under whose directions or control the articles or material are made. Having regard to the vested interest, which the assessee has in the carcasses and the purpose for which carcasses are to be acquired, it can safely be held that even during the process of de-skinning the assessee never lost supervision and control of the animal. Thus the process carried by the assessee starts with selection of animal and ends with packed frozen meat, ready for export through all specialised and regulated activities with strict adherence to norms prescribed by the Government, Export House, foreign buyers and other public agencies. It is difficult to accept that original commodity on which process was carried by the assessee did not under went a change and continued to be the same commercially. By stretch of no imagination, it can be held that no new substance was brought into existence through the process carried by the assessee. The manufactured article is commercially different from the raw materials taken by the assessee and subjected to different processes. The assessee, therefore, fully qualified to be called a manufacturer in the technical sense of the term as laid down by the different Courts. 15. In the case of Dy. CSTv. Pio Food Packers [1980] 46 STC 63 (SC), their Lordships enunciated manufacture in the following terms: 16. It is thus clear that manufacture is end result of one or more processes. Merely because one process in the chain of processes le., de-skinning of animal is not actually carried on by the assessee after the selection of live animals to the export of frozen food, it cannot be said that the assessee till manufacturer. The denial of the relief to the assessee by the revenue, in our opinion, is based upon mis-reading of the case established by the assessee. The revenue has taken a very narrow view of the matter and clearly ignored the purpose of Legislature in enacting Section 80HHC of the Income-tax Act, 1961, which was to encourage export for earning foreign exchange. The provisions, in our considered opinion, should be construed liberally to advance the aforesaid object. 17. We further find force in the submissions of the assessee that for all intent and purposes the word "manufacture" should include process as given in the definition clause of Sections 10A and 10B of the Act. All these provisions were incorporated to serve the same purpose and there is nothing in the context of Sections 10A and 10B suggests some other meaning of term "manufacture". The assessee, therefore, is justified in relying upon the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of Suresh Chand (supra). 18. In denying relief to the assessee for the assessment year 1990-91, one of the grounds taken by the learned CIT(A) was that benefit of Section 80HHC was extended to "processors" only w.e.f. 1-4-1990 by amending lause (d) of Explanation to above section. The learned CIT(A) further cited notes and comments accompanying the Finance Bill, 1990 in support of his conclusion that intention to extend benefit to processors as supporting manufacturer only from 1-4-1991 was more than clear. The aforesaid argument was also taken before us. It is no doubt true that amendment in the definition of supporting manufacturer was made w.e.f. 1-4-1991 by adding words "(including processing)" of goods or merchandised. 19. However, having regard to the intent and purpose, setting the context and other relevant material when seen to determine whether the amendment made is declaratory in character or otherwise, we find that it is declaratory only. In this connection we may usefully refer to the cases of Jamshedpur Motor Accessories Stores v. Union of India [1991] 189 ITR 70 (Pat.) as also to the case of CITv. Sri Jagannath Steel Corpn. [19911 191 ITR 676 (Cal.) wherein proviso added to Section 43B specifically w.e.f. 1 -4-1988 was held to be applicable w.e.f. 1 -4-1984. The provision was also held to be declaratory in character. The S.L.P. filed against the decision in the case of Jamshedpur Motor Accessories Stores (supra) has already been dismissed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court. In the later case of Sri Jagannath Steel Corpn. (supra), the Calcutta High Court made the following observations: 20. It is thus clear that date mentioned by the Legislature for operation of a particular provision is not conclusive. Explanatory and declaratory provisions are always retrospective in operation. 'The amendment was made in the explanation and has to he taken as clarificatory-explanatory in character only. From any angle, we see no scope to deny relief claimed by the assessee. Having regard to the above discussion, we direct the Assessing Officer to allow relief to the assessee as claimed in both the. assessment, years. Consequently orders of the CIT(A) for the assessment year 1989-90 is confirmed and for the assessment year 1990-91 is set aside. 21. In the result, the assessee's appeal for the assessment year 1990-91 is allowed, whereas the revenue's appeal for the assessment year 1989-90 is rejected.