This suit/petition filed by the plaintiff/petitioner under Section 34 of Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (hereinafter referred the same

as the Act) for setting aside the award passed by the defendant 3 A. S. 25 /2010 No.2/respondent No.2 dated 10-12-2009 in Arbitration case No.CM/C-

0069/2009. 2. In the petition, it is stated that on 03-07-2009 the plaintiff filed

claim petition before defendant No.2 claiming a sum of Rs.6,43,433/-

with costs and interest or restore his securities along with all accrues. 3. It is stated that on 01-09-2008 the plaintiff entered as a trading

member with defendant No.1 under client ID No.00064075 and opened

a Dmat Account No.12044500. The plaintiff is an uneducated, signed

on blank client registration form at the time of registration and opening

of dmat account. He had no intention to trade and wanted to retain

the securities in the Dmat form. He had refused to sign any kind of

power of attorney or letter of authority in favour of the defendant

No.1. Taking the advantage of illiteracy of the plaintiff, the defendant

No.1 has obtained his signatures. The plaintiff deposited securities

like ESSAR Oil Ltd - 1000 shares on 05-09-2008, Gateway distilleries -

125 shares, NTPC Ltd - 500 shares, Reliance Communication - 100

shares and Unitech Ltd., - 400 shares on 15-09-2008, HDFC Bank - 34

shares on 16-09-2008, DLF Ltd - 80 shares, Mundra Port 15 shares

and Reliance Petroleum 200 shares, Surya chakra Power 300 shares

and V Guard Industries 500 shares on 01-10-2008 in his Dmat

account. 4. It is stated that the plaintiff received bunch of invoices on

account statement which reflected the illegal purchase and sale of

equity shares by the defendant No.1 without his consent.

Subsequently he approached the branch office of the defendant No.1 at

Bangalore with letter that alleged transactions had taken place without

his permission/consent. But, the defendant No.1 did not reply the

same. The defendant No.1 had used the code of the plaintiff

unauthorizedly while trading. The plaintiff informed the same to the

branch office of the defendant No.1. But they refused the said letter

and on next working days they sold the securities in the account

without his instructions. He also gave complaint to the Chairman of

SEBI on 26-11-2008 in order to initiated appropriate action against the

defendant No.1. The defendant No.1 in all transacted to the tune of

Rs. 56,66,057=90. During time of said transaction the defendant No.1

used the code of the plaintiff unauthorizedly and incurred loss to the

tune of Rs.2,94,352=35 to him. The plaintiff had deposited securities

in his account which were sold by the defendant No.1 without his

permission. Hence, he sought for restoration of his securities. 5. It is stated that at no point of time the plaintiff gave instructions

to the defendant No.1 to purchase or sell the shares in his name. At

the time of signing the blank forms he had never given any e-mail I.D. 5 A. S. 25 /2010 to the defendant No.1. But, the defendant No.1 fraudulently created

an e-mail of the plaintiff in their office at Bangalore and used the same

for the purpose of trading. The plaintiff has filed claim petition before

the defendant No.2 seeking direction to the defendant No.1 to pay a

sum of Rs.4,80,854/- with costs and interest or restore his securities

along with accrues. 6. It is stated that the defendant No.1 filed written

statement/objections to the claim petition before the Arbitrator with

counter claim. The plaintiff filed counter to the written statement, then

the defendant No.1 has filed sub-rejoinder. Based on the contentions

and submissions raised by both parties, the defendant No.2 has

rejected the claim of the plaintiff. But, no issues were framed and

therefore no evidence was led in the claim petition by the both parties.

Aggrieved by the award passed by the defendant No.2 the plaintiff has

preferred the present application on the following amongst other

grounds. 1. The impugned award is liable to be set aside as not being
 valid under Indian law, that being the law to which the parties
 have subjected it. 2. The Learned Arbitrator erred in holding that the claim of the
 Appellant is dismissed for the reason that "though he did not
 want to trade but only keep the shares in Dmat form, he also
 signed the member client agreement and this shows that his
 intentions were otherwise and this stance has been taken as a
 afterthought to avoid the losses incurred in taking open
 positions". 3. The Learned Arbitrator erred in coming to a conclusion that
a Dmat form is opened only for the purpose of trading.
Thereby, the Learned Arbitrator brushed aside the contention
of the Appellant that he opened the Dmat account for
converting his shares in to electronic mode which he was
holding physically and not for the purpose of trading. 4. The Learned Arbitrator failed to notice the submissions
made by the Appellant that "it is very much necessary to
obtain the log report for having opened the appellant's e-mail
id. The Log report gives the details of the creation of the e-
mail id, such as, place, name of the creator, date, time and
through which computer this was done". The learned
Arbitrator not only failed in this aspect but also erred in coming
to a conclusion that " if the appellant is denying the email id
then the onus of proving that the respondent had fraudulently
created an email id lies on the Appellant and should have
obtained such proofs through appropriate channels". This
clearly shows the partiality of the arbitrator in passing the
award without giving sufficient opportunity to the appellant to
prove the same and the finding that "the appellant has not
chosen to prove that the email id was created by the
respondent" is perverse, biased and illegal. 5. The Learned Arbitrator in the reasoning portion of the
award has held the contentions raised by the Appellant that he
did not know English and hence unaware of the contents of the
document and that he signed in blank forms are all not
acceptable. Instead the Learned Arbitrator held that the
Appellant is not an illiterate but a business person and hence it
is expected of him to beware of the risks of trading and signing
documents in blank. The Appellant in order to substantiate the
fact that he was uneducated produced a school certificate.
Copy of the school certificate is produced herewith and marked
as ANNEXURE-E. 6. It is pertinent to note here that even if the appellant has
signed the blank form it was out of the trust he signed and was
never with the intention of trading. But the First respondent
taking undue advantage of the same played fraud on the
Appellant by transacting in the said Dmat Account without the
permission of the Appellant and a blind eye has been turned to
this by the second respondent. 7. The Arbitration proceedings were initiated by the Appellant
on 03-07-2009 and the final award was passed on 10-12-
2009. Throughout the entire award there is no reference to
the issues arising out of the dispute between the parties and to 7 A. S. 25 /2010 the documents or exhibits. This clearly shows that the
arbitrator has failed to follow the proper procedure of framing
the issues and giving the opportunity to the appellant to prove
their case by way of evidence. It is clearly visible to what
extent the second respondent was in a hurry to pass the award
in favour of the first respondent. The respondent No.2 passed
the award in a hurry after he received the intimation from the
respondent No.1 regarding the complaint filed by the Appellant
before the Cops of Detectives for investigating the IP address
and log report for creating an email id. 8. The Appellant never in his life has operated any computer
and did not have any email id in his name. The appellant
further while signing the forms did not give any email id. The
respondent No.1 fraudulently has created an email id in the
name of appellant. From the beginning, the Appellant took a
contention that he never operated the email id as the
password to open the account was not furnished to him by the
First respondent. Moreover, the Learned Arbitrator failed to
appreciate the fact that in the client registration form furnished
by the 1st respondent to the appellant the email column was
blank whereas in the client registration form furnished by the
respondent No.1 during the course of arbitration the email id
column shows [email protected] . Moreover different
handwritings have been used in the said registration form.
The appellant even suspected that those registration forms
furnished by the respondent No.1 during arbitration were not
the one which were signed by this appellant at the time of
opening the dmat account. Such being the case, the Learned
Arbitrator ought not to have given a finding that" this is not
surprising since the appellant did not know English the forms
would have to be filled with someone's help". The said
fraudulent act of the First respondent is also clear from the
courier received by the appellant in the month of the
September 2008 from Mumbai M/s Fortune Equity broking
India Pvt. Ltd., through which he received client registration kit
in which all the columns were filled except the email id column. 9. The Learned Arbitrator failed to appreciate that the
respondent No.1 took a contention that the appellant came to
Mumbai and signed the Client registration form. The date of
the agreement is 1st September 2008, there is no dispute as
regards this date. The date of receipt of the agreement by the
appellant as contended by the respondent No.1 from Mumbai
is 10th August 2008. The date of receipt of the forms is earlier
to the date of the registration which is not at all possible. The
respondent No.2 failed to take note of this contradiction which
is essential in arriving at the award. 10. To establish that it was a concocted story the appellant
had produced the appropriate form which contains the seal of
the respondent No.1 dated 10-08-2008 stating to have
received the application form much before the date of the
agreement. The appellant had vehemently stated that at no
point of time he visited Mumbai and that the original
application form signed was not duly filled with the email id.
In this regard the appellant had sought for the particulars of
the opening of the email id and email transmission log report.
The first respondent taking undue advantage of lack and
knowledge in computer and its operation by the appellant filled
the consent letter of the electronic contract note as well as
created and email id., though these contentions were raised by
the appellant time and again before the arbitration, the
Learned Arbitrator erred in holding that the claim of the
appellant is not maintainable before him. 11. The Second respondent in the entire award only
highlighted that the appellant being uneducated or illiterate is
not a ground for stating that the transaction have taken place
without his consent. Apart from the above reason, the second
respondent has not given any reasoning or finding in the entire
award as to why the claim of the appellant is dismissed
indicating a clear bias as understood in law. 12. The Learned Arbitrator ought to have examined both the
parties with respect to the dispute involved. The Learned
Arbitrator has proceeded to pass award based on the mere
contentions of the first respondent. There is a clear failure on
the part of the Second respondent to apply the law which is
totally untenable in law. In view of the failure of the second
respondent either in framing the issues or in conducting
evidence the fining of the second respondent clearly discloses
a species of fraud. The award passed by the second
respondent thus exceeds the scope of the submission to
arbitration in a much as he has virtually decided that the
Appellant's allegation of unauthorized trading in his account is
not acceptable as the sale of shares held in the dmat account
was carried out through BSE and hence the complaint is not a
subject matter of the arbitration. 13. The second respondent while deciding whether an illegal
transaction has taken place has brushed aside the contentions
or the appellant. The appellant had taken a contention that
the respondent has misled the forum by giving wrong
information. 14. The respondent No.1 has repeatedly taken a contention
 that the email id was given by the appellant at the time of
 signing the form. However, the Log report from the police
 shows that the email id was created in the office at Bangalore
 office of the first respondent on a much later date along with
 name and accurate time. 15. Time and again the respondent No.1 has stated that the
 contract notes were sent electronically to the email id of the
 appellant but the interesting fact remains that the said email id
 has been operated from the LP.No.122.166.9.49 the address is
 of the Bangalore branch office of first respondent. (Assuming
 for the purposes of argument but not admitting that the email
 id was created by the appellant but the documents show that
 the email id has been operated from the Bangalore address of
 the respondent No.1). The appellant had registered an FIR
 under Sec.420 of the Indian Penal Code bearing Crime
 No.837/2009 as against the first respondent's representatives.
 In this regard the police have obtained the termination history
 with respect to the place of address of the operation of the
 email id pertaining to the said IP No. Copies of the termination
 history and FIR are produced herewith and marked as
 ANNEXURE-F and ANNEXURE-G respectively. 16. The Learned Arbitrator has mechanically passed the award
 without application of mind by giving a finding that both the
 cases are similar in nature. 17. The first respondent has played fraud and a blind eye has
 been turned to this by the second respondent. In the award
 passed by the second respondent there is open partiality
 towards the first respondent. On the above mentioned grounds the plaintiff prayed for set

aside the award passed by the Arbitrator/the defendant No.2. 7. The defendant No.1 has filed objections/written statement to the

present petition and stated as follows :- 8. It is stated that the learned Arbitrator gave full opportunity to

the both parties to place their respective evidence. After proper

scrutiny he has adjudicated the client petition. It is denied that the

plaintiff had no intention to trade and wanted to retain the securities in

Dmat form. It is denied that the plaintiff received a bunch of invoices

and account statement which reflected the illegal purchase of sale of

equity shares by the defendant No.1 without the consent of the

plaintiff. It is denied that the defendant No.1 used the code of the

plaintiff unauthorizedly at the time of trading. It is denied that the

defendant No.1 had transacted to the tune of Rs.56,66,057=90 and he

had used the code of the appellant unauthorizedly and incurred a loss

of Rs.2,94,352=35. It is denied that at no point of time the plaintiff

gave instruction to the defendant No.1 to purchase or shares in his

name. It is denied that the defendant No.1 misused the account of the

plaintiff. It is denied that at the time of signing blank form the plaintiff

had never given his email id to the defendant No.1 and the defendant

No.1 fraudulently created email id of the plaintiff in its Bangalore

office. 9. It is stated that appellant/plaintiff traded in Bombay Stock

Exchange as well as National stock exchange. He has wrongly

invoked the jurisdiction of Arbitrator attached to/appointed by National

Stock Exchange. Therefore, the defendant No.2 has rightly ejected

part of the claim of the plaintiff. It is stated that the plaintiff has

hoisted a false claim against the defendant No.1. It is stated that the

defendant No.1 is licensed securities broker having registered with the

Bombay stock exchange and National stock exchange. It is stated that

the plaintiff approached the defendant No.1 intending to trade in

shares and securities. After satisfied the instruction given by the

defendant No.1, the plaintiff had executed "Know Your Client Form" as

well as Member-Client Agreement and "Combined Risk Disclosure

Documents" and also other voluntary documents, including consent for

receiving digital contract notes. It is denied that the plaintiff signed

blank forms as provided by the defendant No.1. Details to be provided

to the plaintiff in filling the said agreement as per the normal custom

including the email ID. Thereafter, the petitioner signed in the client

registration form and other documents. It is stated that the defendant

No.1 created a client ID code of the plaintiff and also account number

in his name. After creation of ID code and opening an account in the

name of petitioner, the defendant No.1 forwarded to the petitioner as a

"welcome letter" along with a set of completed documents. No point of 12 A. S. 25 /2010 time the plaintiff pointed out any discrepancy in the details filled in the

said documents. He opened a depository account in his name after

following due process. Thereafter, the transaction taken place. The

defendant No.1 forwarded digital contract notes to the plaintiff and the

same has been delivered to the email ID belongs to him. On the above

said grounds the defendant No.1 prayed for dismissal of the case of

the plaintiff with exemplary costs. 10. In this arbitration suit both parties have not adduced any

evidence. 11. Heard the arguments by both side. 12. The following points arises for my consideration :- 13. My answer to the above points are as follows:- therefore for the purpose of avoiding repeated discussions, I taken up

these two points together for consideration. 15. It is the contention of the defendant No.1 that this Court has no

territorial jurisdiction to entertain this case. The agreement between

the plaintiff and the defendant No.1 was executed at Mumbai, the

seat of arbitration at Chennai, hence this Court has no jurisdiction to

entertain the case. Considering the same I am of the opinion that the

plaintiff and the defendant No.1 branch office is situated in Bangalore,

it is within the jurisdiction of this Court. Since the provisions of old

law and the ordinance do not prescribe the territorial jurisdiction of the

Court empower to decide the applications and appeal. As per CPC a

Court will exercise territorial jurisdiction over a matter if the property

in dispute is situated within its jurisdiction, or the defendant resides

within its jurisdiction, or if the contract has been executed or

performed within its jurisdiction, or if the cause of action arose within

its jurisdiction. As stated above, in the case on hand the plaintiff and

defendant No.1 branch office is situated in Bangalore city and cause of

action arose in Bangalore city and it is within the jurisdiction of this 14 A. S. 25 /2010 Court. It is not the case of the defendant No.1 that in the agreement

the parties have mentioned about jurisdiction of the Court regarding

settlement of dispute. Therefore, I come to the conclusion that this

Court has territorial jurisdiction to entertain the present case. 16. It is the second contention of the defendant No.1 that the

present petition filed by the plaintiff is barred by limitation. I have

perused the above said contention of the defendant No.1. As per Section 34(3) of the said Act an application for setting aside the

arbitration award may not be made after 3 months have elapsed from

the date on which the party making that application had received the

arbitral award. The plaintiff contended that he received the award on

16-01-2010, thereafter he filed this petition and it is within the period

of limitation. I am of the opinion that the present case the defendant

No.2 passed an award on 10-12-2009, as per the plaintiff award was

communicated to his on 16-01-2010 and thereafter he filed the

present suit on 15-03-2010. Hence, I come to the conclusion that this

petition filed by the petitioner is within 3 months from the date of

receipt of arbitral award as per Section 34(3) of the said Act. 17. As per Section 34 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996

an unsuccessful party can challenge the award passed by the 15 A. S. 25 /2010 Arbitrator under the various grounds. The grounds under Section 34 can be categorized under the following general headings. 1. Violation of Natural Justice 2. Arbitral Award in derogation of Public policy 3. Misconduct of Arbitrator 4. Exceeding jurisdiction 5. Non-Arbitrable issue 6. Illegality - (same as procedural misconduct) 7. Conflict of jurisdiction (unsettled law) 8. Incapacity of party

 In the present case on hand the plaintiff has filed claim petition

before the defendant No.2/learned Arbitrator. Due to dismissal of his

claim petition, as a unsuccessful party the plaintiff approached this

Court and prayed for setting aside the award passed by the defendant

No.2 under the various grounds as per Section 34 of the said Act. 18. During the course of arguments, learned counsel for the

plaintiff/appellant submitted that the plaintiff had no intention to trade

and wanted to retain the securities in the Dmat form. He never

consented for dealing in respect of shares by the defendant No.1. The

defendant No.1 has created e-mail ID in its office belongs to the

plaintiff. IP address for creating e-mail ID has given from the office of

the defendant No.1. The plaintiff was not transferred the share and

received any amount from the defendant No.1. The plaintiff had filed 16 A. S. 25 /2010 complaint against the defendant No.1 before the jurisdictional police,

after investigation the charge sheet filed against the defendant No.1.

In spite of the same, the defendant No.2/learned Arbitrator has not

framed issues, recorded the evidence of the plaintiff, not considered

alleged fraud committed by the defendant No.1, no opportunities given

to the plaintiff to project the alleged fraud committed by the defendant

No.1 and learned Arbitrator has hurriedly dismissed the case of the

plaintiff. He further submitted that the award passed by the Arbitrator

is opposed to the provisions of Section 34 of the said Act and it is

liable to be set aside. 19. In support of his contention the learned counsel for the plaintiff

relied upon the decisions of Hon'ble Courts reported in (2014) 9

Supreme Court Cases 263 ( Oil and Natural Gas Corporation

Limited vs. Western Geco International Limited ) and (2003) 5

SCC 705 ( Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited vs. Saw Pipes

Ltd. ,). 20. Learned counsel for the defendant No.1 submitted that, as per

the consent and permission of the plaintiff, the defendant No.1 has

created email ID and made the transaction of sale and purchase of

shares. There is no alleged fraud committed by the defendant No.1 as

alleged by the plaintiff side. After considering the case of both side, 17 A. S. 25 /2010 the learned Arbitrator dismissed the claim petition filed by the

plaintiff. The learned Arbitrator has not committed any irregularities

while passing such order. Hence, the question of set aside the award

is does not arise and this suit is liable to be dismissed. 21. In support of his contention the learned counsel for the

defendant No.1 relied upon the decision of Hon'ble Court reported in

2010 AIR SCW 232 (M/s Grasim Industries Ltd., and another

vs. Ms Agarwal Steel ) and 2009 AIR SCW 7191 ( Steel authority

of India Ltd., vs. Gupta Brother Steel Tubes Ltd. ,). 22. I have perused the arguments canvassed by both side with case

on hand. I have perused the award passed by the defendant No.2

dated 10-12-2009. In his award the defendant No.2/learned Arbitator

has not accepted the contention of the plaintiff that he does not know

English and hence he signed all the documents on trust. It was held in

the award that both plaintiff and his wife opened accounts with

respondent and also opened dmat accounts for transfer of the shares

held in respective names. They had also opted trade with the

respondent, they were well aware of trading of shares and signed the

member client agreement. From the above said reasons the defendant

No.2 has dismissed the claim petition filed by the plaintiff. 18 A.S. 25/2010 23. I have carefully perused the award passed by the defendant

No.2. From going through the same, it is clear that there is no issues

framed in the arbitration proceedings as per the allegation made by

the parties and no opportunity offered to them to prove their case with

oral and documentary evidence. No evidence recorded in the

arbitration proceedings. Without oral and documentary evidence the

defendant No.2 considered the claim petition and dismissed. 24. In the claim petition before the Arbitrator the plaintiff specifically

contended that he is illiterate, he had no intention to trade and wanted

to retain the securities in Dmat form, taking advantage of his illiteracy,

the defendant No.1 obtained his signatures in the blank forms. He

further contended that the defendant No.1 has committed fraud, he

has created his email id in his office, obtained signatures in the blank

forms and made transaction of sale and purchase of shares and

caused loss to his. He further contended that without his consent the

defendant No.1 was sold and purchase of shares in his name and

caused loss to him. 25. I am of the opinion that the defendant No.2 has not considered

the above mentioned serious allegation made by the plaintiff in the

claim petition in respect of fraud committed by the defendant No.1 19 A. S. 25 /2010 while dealing with transaction of shares. The defendant No.2 has not

framed points for settlement/issues on the basis of pleadings of the

parties and recording evidence. He has not mentioned in the award

that what is the reason for non framing of issues, oral and

documentary evidence not recorded in the arbitration proceedings.

Without framing issues and considered the claim petition filed by the

plaintiff on the basis of oral and documentary evidence, the defendant

No.2 dismissed the case of the plaintiff. Without oral and

documentary evidence he has given findings on the contention taken

by the plaintiff against the defendant No.1. Therefore, I am of the

opinion that it amounts to violation of natural justice and against the

public policy. The defendant No.2 has not given opportunity to the

parties to leading oral evidence and production of documents in the

arbitration proceedings. I am of the opinion that it will also amounts

to misconducted the proceedings. The defendant No.2 has failed to

record the findings in respect of some of the distinct matters referred

to him. Hence, I am of the opinion that the award passed by the

defendant No.2 is incomplete. 26. Hon'ble Supreme Court of India by their judgment reported in

AIR 2016 Supreme Court 4675 ( A. Ayyaswamy vs. A.

Paramashivam and others ) held that the contention taken by the 20 A. S. 25 /2010 petitioner regarding alleged fraud committed by the another party can

be determined by the Arbitral Tribunal. As stated above, in the case

on hand the plaintiff specifically taken contention that the defendant

No.1 committed fraud while getting his signatures in the documents,

created forged email id and made transaction in respect of shares.

Therefore, I am of the opinion that the defendant No.2 has to

determine the allegation of fraud against the defendant No.1 as

alleged by the plaintiff. But, he has not given any findings on the

alleged fraud as per the contention taken by the plaintiff. It is well

settled law that non-reasoned award is liable to be set aside. In the

decision reported in AIR 1964 A.P. 348, it was held that in case of

the Arbitrators failure to record finding in respect of some of the

distinct matter referred to the arbitrator, the award is incomplete and

liable to be set aside. In the case on hand learned Arbitrator did not

framed issues and recorded evidence in respect of alleged fraud as

contended by the plaintiff and given findings. 27. As discussed above the learned Arbitrator has not followed the

procedure laid down under Section 24 of the Arbitration and

Conciliation Act, 1996. He has not framed points for settlement or

issues, not taken oral and documentary evidence placed by the

plaintiff side and passed award with reasons. In the absence of 21 A. S. 25 /2010 settlement or issues, oral and documentary evidence, the defendant

No.2 simply given findings that the plaintiff has not proved his case

about alleged fraud and misrepresentation by the defendant No.1.

Hence, I come to the conclusion that the award of the Arbitrator is

illegal, perverse and not sustainable under law. The object of the

arbitration Act and intention of the parties that to approach the

arbitrator for decide the dispute between them. The parties chosen

the Arbitrator to complete remedy for resolving all their claims. But,

in the case on hand even though in the claim petition the plaintiff

made several allegation against the defendant No.1, the learned

Arbitrator did not considered the same by oral and documentary

evidence. Therefore, the award passed by the Arbitrator is liable to be

set aside. The plaintiff has made out grounds under Section 34(2) of

the Arbitration and Conciliation Act to set aside the award passed by

the second defendant. I have perused the Hon'ble Court decisions

cited by the defendant No.1 side as stated supra. I am of the opinion

that looking into the facts and circumstances of the case, Hon'ble

Court decisions will not help the case of the defendant No.1. 28. It is noticed the contention taken by the plaintiff that due to fraud

committed by the defendant No.1, he and his wife lodged complaint

before Kamakshipalya Police station against the defendant No.1 and its 22 A. S. 25 /2010 officials. After investigation the police have filed charge sheet against

them punishable under Section 420, 114 r/w Section 34 of IPC. To prove

the same the plaintiff has produced certified copies of charge sheet,

application filed by the accused for granting bail and order of bail

application. 29. Looking to the facts and circumstances of the case and also in

order to safeguard the interest of plaintiff, I feel it is just and proper to

remand the matter to the defendant No.2 for fresh disposal in

accordance with law. Therefore, award passed by the learned

Arbitrator is liable to be set side and matter is remitted back to

defendant No.2 for fresh disposal in accordance with law. Accordingly,

I answer points 1 and 2 in the affirmative. 30. POINT NO. 3:- In view of the findings on point No.1 and 2, I

proceed to pass the following order:-