Sixteenth Loksabha 

 

 

 
 

 an> 

 

Title: Regarding Swavalamban Scheme meant for differently abled persons. SHRI ANTO ANTONY ( PATHANAMTHITTA ): Madam, I would like to request the Government to re-start the Swavlamban Health Insurance Scheme which was launched to provide affordable health insurance for persons with disabilities. The Trust Fund for Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities under the Department of Empowerment of People with Disabilities, Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment in collaboration with the New India Assurance Company Limited initiated this Scheme in 2015. The Scheme of  medical assistance up to Rs. 2,00,000 (Rupees two lakh) per annum for persons with disabilities, their spouses and up to two kids. Those persons with disabilities, whose family income was less than Rs. 3,00,000/- per annum, were eligible to subscribe to this Scheme. According to the Memorandum of Understanding which was signed between the Trust Fund for Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities and the New India Assurance Company on 21st September, 2015, the Government would bear 90 per cent of the premium and the rest of the 10 per cent of the amount would be collected from policyholder of the Scheme. Thereafter, the Government officially launched the Scheme with much fanfare and publicity. The New India Assurance Company started to enrol people in the Scheme. However, it is learnt that the Government has stopped the payment of the assured premium, as a result, the Swavlamban Health Insurance Scheme has become non-functional for the last several months and the subscribers are not getting the financial assistance under the Scheme. It is a fact that most of the policyholders of the Swavlamban Health Scheme are still unaware of the roll back of the Scheme. They get this information only after they get admitted to hospitals. They virtually are on the verge of collapse since the policyholders under this Scheme are financially weak and seek medical assistance with a firm believe that their hospital expenses would be covered by this Scheme. Therefore, the unilateral withdrawal of the Government from the Swavlamban Health Insurance Scheme comes as a blow to the disabled people with a weak economic background. This is an injustice to them. Therefore, I request the Government to kindly restart the Swavlamban Health Insurance Scheme. Thank you. माननीयअध्यक्ष : *t59 

Title: Need to provide stoppage of Jan Shatabdi Express (train no. 12365/12366) at Paharpur Railway Station in Gaya Parliamentary Constituency, Bihar. श्री हरि मांझी ( गया ): मेरे संसदीय क्षेत्र गया के अंतर्गत पहाडपुर रेलवे स्टेशन मंडल धनबाद के अंतर्गत पड़ता है तथा धनबाद-गया खण्ड के एक महत्वपूर्ण रेलवे स्टेशन है। रांची-पटना जनशताब्दी एक्सप्रेस ट्रेन संख्या 12365/12366का पहाडपुर रेलवे स्टेशन पर ठहराव देने की मांग वर्षों से रही है। विदित है कि उक्त ट्रेन में काफी संख्या में ग्रामीण दूर-दूर से लगभग 33किलोमीटर की दूरी तय करके गया स्टेशन से जनशताब्दी एक्सप्रेस ट्रेन को पकड़ने आते हैं जिससे लोगों को उक्त ट्रेन को पकड़ने में काफी कठिनाइयों का सामना करना पड़ता है। अत :मैं माननीय मंत्री जी से मांग करता हूँ कि पहाडपुर स्टेशन पर जनशताब्दी एक्सप्रेस ट्रेन संख्या 12365/12366को ठहराव देने की कृपा की जाये। *t60 

Title: Regarding delay in issuance of NoC by Defence Ministry. DR. KIRIT SOMAIYA ( MUMBAI NORTH EAST ): I would like to raise the issue regarding the long delay by Defence Ministry in issuance of No Objection Certificate for development around Defence land in Mumbai and other parts of the country. It may be noted that in October, 2016, the then Defence Minister issued instructions/order, accordingly such a list was released by Army where the private development around the Defence land (which is non-sensitive area) was released. But the similar list by Navy and Air Force, which was to be released, immediately, has not been released till date. Though the Hon’ble MoS Defence had informed and given commitment in the Lok Sabha four months back that the list is already ready and signed by himself, till today the said list has not been released by the Defence Ministry. More than 50,000 people of such residential constructions are suffering as the No Objection Certificate by Navy and Air Force has been withheld till today. I urge upon the Hon’ble Minister of Defence to release such a list immediately. *t61 

Title: Need to develop National Highway No. 123 (507) from Herbertpur to Barkot as an all-weather road. श्रीमती माला राज्यलक्ष्मी शाह ( टिहरी गढ़वाल ): मैं केन्द्रीय सड़क परिवहन मंत्री का ध्यान उत्तराखंड में अपने संसदीय क्षेत्र की ओर दिलाना चाहता हूँ। चार-धाम राजमार्ग विकास परियोजना के अंतर्गत पहला धाम यमुनोत्री को जोड़ने वाले दिल्ली-यमुनौत्री राष्ट्रीय राजमार्ग (हरबर्टपुर से बड़कोट) को इस परियोजना से वंचित रखा गया है। तीर्थ यात्री अपनी यात्रा की शुरूआत मां यमुना(यमुनौत्री)के दर्शन से करते है। उक्त धाम की महत्ता को देखते हुए 1962में यमुनौत्री धाम को मोटर मार्ग से जोड़ने हेतु दिल्ली-यमुनौत्री(यमुना रोड़) के नाम से मोटर मार्ग निर्माण को स्वीकृति प्रदान की गई। निर्मित होने के बाद 1965 से 2002तक दिल्ली-यमुनौत्री मार्ग संख्या-94राज्य मार्ग (स्टेट हाईवे) के नाम से संचालित होती रही है, लेकिन कागजी भूल के कारण उक्त मार्ग का सम्पूर्ण भाग न तो चार-धाम मार्ग में सम्मिलित हुआ और न राष्ट्रीय राज मार्ग की स्वीकृति मिली। भारत सरकार ने वर्ष 2002 में उक्त मार्ग का कुछ भाग हरबर्टपुर से बड़कोट तक 111 कि.मी. राष्ट्रीय राजमार्ग 123(507) के नाम से घोषित किया तथा यह मार्ग भी चार धाम यात्रा मार्ग से वंचित रखा गया है। मेरा आग्रह है कि जनहित से रा0 रा0 मार्ग 123 (507) को दिल्ली–यमुनौत्री के नाम से विस्तार संशोधित स्वीकृति करें एवं हरबर्टपुर से बड़कोट बैण्ड तक 111 कि.मी. के भाग को ऑल वेदर रोड़ में सम्मिलित करने की कृपा करें। *t62 

Title: Regarding setting up of Shariat court by AIMPLB. SHRIMATI MEENAKASHI LEKHI ( NEW DELHI ): The plan of the All India Muslim Personal Law Board (AIMPLB) to set up a shariah court (Darul Qaza) in every district of India is an illogical and regressive decision. This will not only complicate religion-based, personal law jurisprudence in India, but also work against the ambition of implementing a uniform civil code in the nation. The arguments put forward by the AIMPLB make us feel that the plan is innocent and objective, as it is based on a righteous motive to lessen the burden of litigation in Indian courts, which are reeling under the burden of millions of overdue cases. Shariah courts, AIMPLB claims, are not ‘courts’ or any parallel legal system; rather they are the Darul Qaza or ‘house of consultations’, where experts of Islamic laws guide and advise Muslims who submit their personal disputes to them for arbitration, as suggested under the Arbitration and Conciliation Act . Further, Zafaryab Jilani, member of the AIMPLB, maintains that the Darul Qaza is ‘legal and upheld by the Supreme Court” and that the same is a “100 per cent constitutional exercise”. *t63 

Title: Regarding setting up of cold storage facilities for agricultural produce in the rural areas of the country. श्री जनार्दन सिंह सीग्रीवाल ( महाराजगंज ):हमारे देश की आधे से अधिक आबादी कृषि पर निर्भर करती है। इसलिए अन्नदाता किसानों का बहुत बड़ा महत्व है। आजादी के बाद से किसानों के महत्व को जिस तरीके से समझने की जरूरत थी नहीं समझा गया जिस कारण किसानों की स्थिति दिन-ब-दिन दयनीय होती चली गई। आज किसानों की देश में क्या स्थिति है हम सबके सामने है। ऐसे में हम सबों की जिम्मेदारी बनती है कि किसानों की स्थिति को सुधारने हेतु काम करें। वैसे तो आज की केन्द्र की सरकार किसानों और कृषि के प्रति गंभीरतापूर्वक कार्य करती हुई दिख रही है। इसके लिए अनेकों योजनाओं का शुभारंभ भी केन्द्र सरकार द्वारा किया गया है। इन्हीं योजनाओं के तहत देश के किसानों की आय दो गुनी करने की भी योजना सरकार द्वारा शुरू की गई है। इसके लिए फसल का उत्पादन फसल का उत्पादन बढ़ाने, उत्पादित फसल का बाजार में सही कीमत मिलने का प्रबंध करना तथा इसी प्रकार के अन्य अनेकों योजनाओं के माध्यम से किसानों की आय को बढ़ाने का गंभीर प्रयास सरकार के द्वारा किया जा रहा है लेकिन इतने ही भर से किसानों की आय में वृद्धि नहीं की जा सकेगी बल्कि इसके लिए कुछ और तरीके भी अपनाने होंगे। जिस संबंध में निम्नवत: मेरी एक मांग और सुझाव है। किसानों की आय में वृद्धि नहीं होने के पीछे एक बहुत बड़ा करण फसल उत्पादन पश्चात उनके भंडारण हेतु स्टोरेज और कूलिंग चेन की कमी भी है। इसके अभाव में देश के अन्दर किसानों द्वारा लाखों टन उत्पादित अन्न/फल-सब्जी इत्यादि सड़-गल कर खराब हो जाते हैं जिससे प्रतिवर्ष किसानों को काफी हानि उठानी पड़ती है। इस स्थिति से निपटने के लिए मेरी सरकार से मांग है कि सरकार के सहयोग से स्टोरेज एवं कूलिंग चैन की लघु इकाई किसानों के घर/दलान या बथान पर ही लगाये जाने की योजना अगर शुरू की जाती है तो किसान स्वयं अपने उत्पादित माल को सुरक्षित भंडारित कर पाएंगे तथा बाजार से जब सही मूल्य मिलने होंगे तो उस समय अपना उत्पादन बेचकर लाभ प्राप्त कर सकेंगे। वैसे भी पुरातन परंपरानुसार किसान अपनी-अपनी उत्पादित क्षमता के अनुसार अपने-अपने घरों/बथानों/दलानों में जमीन के अंदर खाद, बेढ़ी इत्यादि बनाकर अपना भंडारण किया करते थे तथा उचित समय आने पर बाजार में अपना माल बेचते थे। इसी के साथ आग्रह है कि उक्त योजना को शुरू किये जाने की कार्रवाई अगर सरकार करती है तो इसकी शुरूआत मेरे गृह प्रदेश बिहार से करने की कृपा की जाये। *t64 

Title: Regarding development of water bodies and makeover of dak bungalows in Sohagi Barwa Wildlife Sanctuary in Maharajganj district, Uttar Pradesh. श्री पंकज चौधरी ( महाराजगंज ):मेरे संसदीय क्षेत्र के अंतर्गत सोहगीबरवा वाइल्ड लाइफ बन क्षेत्र महाराजगंज में छोटे बड़े28प्राकृतिक ताल तथा वन विभाग के 9 डाक बंगले हैं। इन तालों में प्राकृतिक स्त्रोतों से उपलब्ध जल से जंगल में रहने वाले बड़े छोटे जानवरों को पीने का पानी सुलभ होता है। ग्राउन्ड वाटर रिचार्ज होने से बड़ी सहायता मिलती है। इन तालों में अनेकों प्रकार के देशी-विदेशी पक्षियों का प्रवास होता है। नेपाल की ओर से आने वाले पानी से होने वाले बाढ़ के नियंत्रण में सहायता मिलती है। महारागंज जनपद सिद्धार्थनगर,कुशीनगर तथा नेपाल से जुड़ा होने के कारण देशी-विदेशी पर्यटकों का आना-जाना होता है। मेरा अनुरोध है कि इस जंगल के प्राकृतिक तालों का विकास तथा फारेस्ट डाक बंगलों को सुसज्जित कराया जाये जिससे पक्षियों के प्रवास, पर्यटन को बढ़ावा, ग्राउन्ड वाटर रिचार्ज,जंगल के जानवरों को पीने के पानी की सुविधा सुलभ हो सके। *t65 

Title: Need to ameliorate the plight of stage artists. प्रो. चिंतामणि मालवीय ( उज्जैन ):मैं संस्कृति मंत्री जी का ध्यान देश के कला जगत से जुड़ी सांस्कृतिक संस्थाओं की दशा की ओर आकर्षित करना चाहता हूँ। देश की आजादी से लेकर आज तक के सार्वजनिक जीवन में ऐसी अनेक संस्थाएं हैं जिनका हमारे सामाजिक जीवन में बड़ा महत्व है। ऐसी कई सामाजिक और सांस्कृतिक कलाओं की संरक्षण संबंधी संस्थाएं है जो लगभग 50 सालों से समाज में जागरूकता लाने और सुधारने का काम कर रही है। मुझे दु:ख है कि देश के प्रदर्शनकारी कलाओं के जो कलाकार हैं उनकी स्थिति अच्छी नहीं है। यहां तक कि संस्कृति मंत्रालय द्वारा चलाई जा रही अनुदान योजनाएं भी नियमिति नहीं चल रही है। कलाकारों को लगभग दो वर्षों के विलंब से भुगतान हो रहा है जिससे देश भर के कलाकारों में असंतोष पनप रहा है। देश में खेल के बाद एक कला कर्म ही है जो काफी लोकप्रिय है और करोड़ों की संख्या में युवा इनसे जुड़े हैं चाहे वह शहर हो या गांव , यदि कलाकारों को उचित स्थान और सहयोग नहीं मिलेगा तो भी अराजक बनेंगे और गलत रास्ते पर जाएंगे। इसलिए मेरा अनुरोध है कि संस्कृति विभाग से लंबित मामलों को यथाशीघ्र हल किया जाए, ताकि कलाकारों की आर्थिक स्थिति ठीक हो सके। *t66 

Title: Regarding setting up of a unit of National Virology Institute in Kerala. SHRI MULLAPPALLY RAMACHANDRAN ( VADAKARA ): Kozhikode district in Kerala recently witnessed the outbreak of a rare and fatal Nipah viral fever Just when Nipah has been successfully brought under control, Kozhikode has had a case of Kala Azar or Leishmaniosis, another dangerous viral fever. Now, that monsoon is in full swing the spread of the disease needs to be arrested on war footing. The Medical fraternity has set an exemplary record in identifying and containing Nipah. After every Monsoon Kerala is experiencing various kinds of fevers like Chikungunya, Dengue, Malaria etc. In order to diagnose the varied fevers, the Union  Government may please set up a Unit of National Virology Institute under the Ministry of Health and Welfare in Kerala. I urge upon the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare to extend all support to the State of Kerala to deal with the situation caused by recurring fevers. *t67 

Title: Regarding simplification of referral system under the Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS). SHRI B.N. CHANDRAPPA ( CHITRADURGA ): I would like to draw the attention of the hon. Health Minister towards the recent guidelines issued for simplification of referral system under CGHS. CGHS provides medical facilities for consultation and treatment at their Wellness Centres and also under the empanelled private hospitals for their beneficiaries including the pensioners. As per the past practice, once a patient is referred by the Wellness Centre for getting the treatment at any of the empanelled private hospitals, he/she used to get treatment including the investigations etc. But, now, in the name of simplification, once a patient is referred by the Wellness Centre, he/she can go to the empanelled private hospital but he cannot get the investigations or treatment done without getting it endorsed once again by the Wellness Centre. This practice has actually put the patient including the pensioners to run from the hospital to the Wellness Centre for the purpose of endorsement. This practice is actually harming rather than helping the beneficiaries from getting the timely treatment as also the reimbursement. I would, therefore, urge the Union Health Minister to kindly look into this matter urgently and help the ailing patients to get the treatment first rather than making them run for procedural things. *t68 

Title: Regarding privatisation of Salem Steel Plant. SHRI V. PANNEERSELVAM ( SALEM ): I would like to record the strong public protest against the decision to privatize the Salem Steel Plant (SSP) and to highlight the need for taking urgent steps to save steel plant. It is very disheartening to know that Govt. has approved disinvestment in SSP terming it a loss making unit. The SSP, which possesses well- established infrastructure, is one of the specialized unit of SAIL. SSP provides direct employment to more than 2000 persons and indirect employment to several thousand people. The plant was profitable till 2010. However, surprisingly the SSP has become a loss making unit whereas private steel plant that too in Salem itself is making profits. I firmly believe that poor management, improper supervision, incapacity and sabotage may be the reasons behind poor financial performance of SSP. Moreover, shifting SAIL’s sales centre from Salem to Kolkata also affected its customer base and also, many private players may be very eager to grab the ownership of the plant. SSP has very high potential for diversification and becoming a profitable unit, if managed properly. Steel making is one of the core-sector industries in the country. To change the fortunes of SSP, the requirements such as installation of captive power plant and steps for production of Railway coaches with collaboration of ICF Perampur be expedited. I also mention the fact that the plant was established with the collective efforts by Central and State Governments and people donated land for the project in the hope of getting employment. I fail to understand when a steel plant can be run profitably in private sector, what stops the State to run SSP profitably. I would like point out that when there was a proposal for privatization of NLC, our former Chief Minister intervened and saved it. Our present Chief Minister has also requested the Centre to stop the totally unjustified decision to privatize SSP. I, therefore, request that privatization of Salem Steel plant should be stopped forthwith and its public-ownership should not be changed. I also urge that all steps including loan and interest-waiving option be considered to improve the functional efficiency of SSP and make it a profit-earning unit. *t69 

Title: Regarding railway related issues of Cuddalore Parliamentary Constituency of Tamil Nadu. SHRI A. ARUNMOZHITHEVAN ( CUDDALORE ): I wish to state about the most important railway needs of the people of my Cuddalore Parliamentary constituency. 1.    Pennadam Railway Station (PNDM) is one of the oldest Railway stations in Tamil Nadu which has great legacy even from the British period. Pennadam is known for Cement Industries and Sugar Mill, Tittagudi is very near Pennadam which enshrines the world renowned Sri Vaithyanathaswamy Temple. There are many Colleges and Schools in and around Pennadam. People from several villages in and around Pennadam depend solely upon this Pennadam Station for their rail approach. Earlier both Pallavan Express (12605/12606) and Vaigai (12635/12636) had a stoppage at Pennadam Railway Station (PNDM). Unfortunately no train stops in the entire Tittagudi Taluk at present. Therefore I request the Hon’ble Minister to kindly issue necessary orders for the stoppage of Pallavan Express (12605/12606) and Vaigai Express (12635/12636) at Pennadam Railway Station (PNDM). 2.    It is really unfortunate that the Antyodaya train service is being denied to the people of Cuddalore District, as it does not stop throughout Cuddalore District. Cuddalore Town is the District Headquarters and is one of the busiest commercial centres in Tamil Nadu. I request you to kindly take necessary steps to provide a stoppage for the new Antyodaya Train (16191/16192) either at Tirupadiripuliyur (TDPR) Railway Station or at Cuddalore Port Junction. 3.    I would also request the Hon’ble Minister to introduce additional trains in this Chennai-Tiruchirappalli line as all the trains are jam-packed and people of this region find it very difficult to get reserved tickets to travel to and from both Chennai and Tiruchirappalli. *t70 

Title: Regarding alleged sale of fake medicines. DR. RATNA DE ( NAG) (HOOGHLY ): It is astonishing to know that WHO report has stated that one out of 10 medicines sold in India are fake. This is last year’s Report. (News Item in The Pioneer dated 19th June, 2019— No more Sham Drugs! Checkout just a call away). There is a need to keep tabs on top 300 branded drugs, syrups and vials of at least 66 pharma firms, including MNCs like Lupin Ltd., Cipla Ltd., Dr. Reddy’s Lab, Novo Nordisk India Pvt. Ltd., Novartis India Ltd. and Sun Pharma. Isn’t it disturbing? How can the Government put the people of our country in danger by allowing these major MNCs and other companies to sell fake medicines in the market. What is the mechanism in place to monitor in order to ensure  these major ten fake medicines are not sold in India by the said MNCs and other companies? DR. MAMTAZ SANGHAMITA ( BARDHMAN DURGAPUR ): It is a matter of grave concern that lakhs of Bengali-speaking residents of Assam are allegedly being discriminated in NRC (National Register of Citizens) processed by local Government. They are suspected to be excluded from the list of Indian Citizenship on the ground of delay in application and many other reasons. Henceforth, those citizens are likely to become stateless. Chief Minister of West Bengal has expressed her concern over it. Even the special rapporteur of United Nations asked the Government to reply to their observation.  We want to know the ground reality. *t72 

Title: Regarding         restrictions on high rise buildings near Santa Cruz Airport, Mumbai. SHRI RAHUL SHEWALE ( MUMBAI SOUTH CENTRAL ):  Air safety is critical to the national security and economy. Estates around airports have become scarce, valuable resource for industry. Large airport projects such as new runways at Mumbai, Delhi and other upcoming new airports demonstrate the conflict potential between urban planning and air traffic operator’s interests. The Slum rehabilitation projects require vertical space to utilize the FSI granted to make the projects viable. Due to increasing cost of land and the new DC Regulations restricting horizontal expansion, going vertical is the only option. But the Airport regulations laid out in GSR 751 (E) by MOCA have not taken into account the growing need for vertical space for meeting the mission of ‘Housing for all’. For that a proposal is required to create an accurate, intelligent electronic database, 2D-3D database of buildings/obstacles around 10km of Santa Cruz Airport in Mumbai using high resolutions satellite imagery to establish the current density of buildings along with their existing heights for better planning and intelligent decision making. This eTOD shall portray the terrain and obstacle data in combination with aeronautical data, as appropriate on a secure web application. A prototype can be viewed on: http://www.prithvipraroop.net. Regarding the Instrument flight procedures in Mumbai, we might maybe have a look to steeper approach, going from 3° up to 3.2° or 3.3°. Several airports in the world have these kinds of trajectories and it might provide better clearance.   Also there is a need to expedite PBN implementation which provides more accurate guidance for minor investment (as India already have its own SBAS coverage with GAGAN). It might be a good solution to equip RWY14/32 with vertical guidance without investing in a costly ILS. Needless to say I would like to suggest that steps be taken in this regard  beginning with Mumbai, which is currently having the maximum number of problems in terms of restriction on high-rises due to increasing Air traffic density at Santa Cruz Airport. *t73 

Title: Regarding         re-framing of bank note refund rules by the Reserve Bank of India. DR. P.K. BIJU ( ALATHUR ): Banks are finding it impossible to exchange soiled Rs. 200 and Rs. 2000 banknotes as the rules governing their exchange are yet to be amended. The exchange of soiled, mutilated and imperfect notes are governed by Reserve Bank of India (Note Refund) Rules, a part of Section 28 of the RBI Act, which only specifies currency notes of Rs. 5, Rs. 10, Rs. 50, Rs. 100, Rs. 500, Rs. 1,000, Rs. 5,000 and Rs. 10,000 denomination. The Rs. 2000 notes were issued post demonetisation in November2016 and the Rs. 200 note started trickling down to the masses from September2017 onwards. Only after the note-refund rules are reframed, RBI offices and designated banks will accept soiled notes for exchange and give a refund whose value may vary with the nature and extent of damage of the soiled note. The public, especially poor people, farmers, small scale vendors etc are finding it very difficult to deal with the situation. I urge the Government to take urgent steps to re-frame note-refund rules by RBI for Rs. 2000 and Rs. 200 notes as early as possible. *t74 

Title: Regarding release of funds under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme in Bihar. श्री कौशलेन्द्र कुमार ( नालंदा ):14वें वित्त आयोग की अनुशंसा के अनुरूप बिहार में मनरेगा योजना का 50 प्रतिशत काम अब पंचायत समिति के द्वारा कराया जाएगा। पहले यह कार्य ग्राम पंचायतों के हवाले था। किन्तु अब त्रिस्तरीय पंचायती राज व्यवस्था में जिला परिषद के पास विकास का कोई काम नहीं रह गया है। क्योंकि मनरेगा का कार्य जिला परिषद के पास नहीं रहेगा। यह स्थिति 14वें वित्त आयोग की अनुशंसा के कारण बनी है। अत: जिला परिषद से निर्वाचित जनप्रतिनिधि सड़क निर्माण में एक से दूसरे ब्लाकों को नहीं जोड़ पाएंगे, जिससे विकास कार्य बाधित होगा। मेरा अनुरोध है कि जिला परिषद के सदस्यों को मनरेगा से एक प्रखंड से दूसरे प्रखंड को जोड़ने वाली सड़क का निर्माण कराने का अधिकार प्रदान किया जाए। बिहार में 2 करोड़25 लाख 28 हजार मनरेगा मजदूर हैं। 1 करोड़54 लाख 33 हजार परिवारों को जॉब-कार्ड तैयार किया गया है। राज्य में सक्रिय जॉब-कार्डधारी मजदूरों की संख्या 3,88,000 है,जबकि कुल सक्रिया मजदूरों की संख्या 47 लाख9 हजार है। मनरेगा के तहत100 दिनों की रोजगार और काम की गारंटी है,किन्तु बिहार में 30 दिन का भी काम नहीं मिल रहा है। साथ में यह भी कहना चाहता हूँ कि बिहार में मनरेगा के तहत मजदूरी 163 रूपये है, जबकि सबसे ज्यादा 500रूपये केरल में है। इसका पुन: निर्धारण होना चाहिए, क्योंकि महंगाई दिनोंदिन बढ़ती ही जा रही है और बिहार में मनरेगा मजदूरों की मजदूरी देश में अन्य राज्यों की तुलना में सबसे कम है। साथ ही सरकार से बिहार राज्य को मनरेगा के तहत बकाया राशि 341 करोड़ रूपये को निर्गत करने का आग्रह करता हूँ। क्योंकि पहले के कई वित्त वर्षों का भी बकाया शेष राशि निर्गत नहीं की गयी है। इसका परिणाम है कि बिहार में मनरेगा मजदूरों को पिछले तीन वर्षों से मजदूरी नहीं मिली है। मजदूरों का राज्य में पलायन हो रहा है। मजदूरों के परिवार भुखमरी के कगार पर है। अत: बिहार को मनरेगा के पिछले सभी बकाया राशि को निर्गत किया जाए। *t75 

Title: Regarding         upgradation of ESIC hospital in Hisar Parliamentary Constituency, Haryana. SHRI DUSHYANT CHAUTALA ( HISAR ): The Employees’ State Insurance Scheme provides medical facility to the insured beneficiaries and also to their dependents. In Hisar Lok Sabha constituency, there are five ESIC dispensaries functioning including two in Hisar city but without adequate number of medical officers, nurses, para medical lab and beds for inpatient. There should be at least five medical officers, four nurses and other para medical staff available in each dispensary as per the norms of ESIC. All these dispensaries cover more than 65000 beneficiaries who have enrolled themselves under ESIC. Further, there is a hospital building adjacent to Hisar city dispensary, functioning as diagnostic centre. However, at present only manual lab is functioning which undertakes normal routine tests and there is a need for digital diagnostic system in this dispensary. Therefore, I urge the Government to upgrade the existing hospital building in Hisar city and covert the same into 50 bedded hospital placing adequate number of medical officers, para medical staff and fully digital diagnostic laboratory system. *t76 

Title: Regarding construction of Angamali-Erumali Sabari Rail Project in Kerala. ADV. JOICE GEORGE ( IDUKKI ): The construction of the Angamali-Erumeli Sabari Rail project was commenced in the year 2006. During the past 16 years, only 8 kilometers out of 116 kilometers could be constructed, due to many reasons including the inadequate  allocation of funds. Detailed estimate has been sanctioned for the establishment of railway line from Angamali to Perumbavoor for a length of 17 km’s in the year 2014. The railway ministry has allocated an amount of Rs. 67 crores, Rs. 213  crores and Rs. 220 crores in the year 2016-17, 17-18 & 18-19 respectively. So an amount of Rs. 500 crore is available for the said project from the Central Government as of now. However, there is no progress in the work as of now and the land owners who are supposed to give up their land are in limbo. So urgent intervention of the Government is requested in this matter. *t77 

Title: Regarding constituting committee under ICCR. SHRI N.K. PREMACHANDRAN ( KOLLAM ): The failure of ICCR to constitute the empanelment committee caused trouble to young artist in the country. The youths are the cultural ambassadors of the country and it is through them the various art forms of the country are spreading across the world. The norms fixed by the ICCR for the empanelment are also not acceptable. The stringent conditions imposed for presentation of video specifically made for the empanelment create additional burden to the applicants. It is very difficult for the eminent youth artist from economically backward class to submit application for empanelment. The situation is very bad and results in denying the opportunity to art ambassadors of the country to spread the different forms of Indian arts across the world. Hence, I urge upon the Government to initiate immediate action to constitute the empanelment committee under ICCR and relax the condition for submitting application for empanelment. *t78 

Title: Discussion on Statutory Resolution regarding Disapproval of Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 2018 (No. 6 of 2018) and Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Second Amendment) Bill, 2018 (Statutory Resolution-Negatived and Government Bill - Passed). HON. DEPUTY SPEAKER: Now, let us take Item Nos.21 and 22 together. Shri N.K. Premachandran. SHRI N.K. PREMACHANDRAN ( KOLLAM ): Sir, I beg to move: बैंककामुझेडेढ़महीनेपहलेलेटरआयाकि since 2014, they are defaulter. उसकेबादभीआजतककोईकार्रवाईनहींहुई।मैंआपसेयहप्रार्थनाकरनाचाहूंगाकियहजोटॉप 12 है, जिनमेंरिजोल्यूशनहोरहाहै,आपनेनिर्णयलिया,बैंकिंगसेक्रेटरीनेडिक्लेयरकियाकि for Rs. 50 crore NPAs, we have asked all banks to take up forensic audit. फारेंसिकऑडिटकाक्याहुआ?जितनेइसप्रकारकेगफलतध्यानमेंआएहैं,उनसबकेऊपरएक्शनलेनाचाहिए,मैंयहभीआपसेकहनाचाहूंगा। वर्ल्डबैंककामेरेपासएकआर्टिकलआयाहै। According to World Bank statistics, it took an average of 3.4 years to resolve a default account. जो एक्सपर्टहैं,उन्होंनेआगेलिखाहैकिइंडियाएकअच्छाप्रयासकरनेजारहाहै।प्रयासकरतेसमय,जैसे-जैसेलोगोंकोविश्वासमेंलेकरजहां-जहांजरूरतहोगी,करैक्शनकरनेपड़ेंगे।मैंकुछऔरलोगोंकेएग्जांपलनहींदेनाचाहूंगा।मैंआपकोकुछसजेशंसदेनाचाहूंगा। एकसजेशनयहहैकिहोल्डिंगकंपनीएंडसबसिडियरीकंपनी,अगरहोल्डिंगकंपनीनेगारंटीदीहै,तोउसकेखिलाफकार्रवाईशुरूहोतीहै।मेरेहाथमेंएकएग्जांपलहैकिएनसीएलटीकेविरूद्धकोईअपीलमेंगया,अपीलिएटट्रिब्यूनलने 6 महीने पहलेहियरिंगसमाप्तकरदी,आर्डररिजर्व्डकरदिया,रिजोल्यूशनप्रोसेसअटकगया।ट्रिब्यूनलनेस्टेनहींदियाहै,लेकिनएनसीएलटीफाइनलआर्डरनहींदेरहाहै।हमारायहअनुभवहरएकरेग्युलेटरमेंआयाहै,पॉवररेग्युलेटरमेंभीआयाहै,कैपिटलमार्केटरेग्युलेटरमेंभीयहअनुभवआयाहैकिजोट्रिब्यूनलअनेकमहीनोंतकहियरिंगसमाप्तहोनेकेबादभीआर्डररिजर्व्डरखतीहै,उससंबंधमेंआपकोपार्लियामेंटकीमददलेनीचाहिएकिइसकोकिसप्रकारसेटाइमबाउंडलिमिटमेंकरसकें। एकऔरदूसरासजेशनआयाहैकिजोरिजोल्यूशनप्रोफेशनलहै,एककंपनीहै,उसमेंरिजोल्यूशनप्रोफेशनलकीउम्र 80 ईयर्स है।एकबारकरो,मैंयहनहींकहूंगा,लेकिनसाथमेंयहकहूंगाकिइससंबंधमेंकोईनकोई,मैंनेलास्टटाइमभीआपसेएकबातकहीथी,उसदृष्टिसेमिनिस्ट्रीकाएकनोटिसभीआयाहै।जोक्रॉसबार्डरइनसॉल्वेंसीहै,जैसेएमटेकहैयाऔरभीकंपनियांहैं,तोउनकोकिसप्रकारसेहमसार्टआउटकरेंगे,इसकेबारेमेंभीहमेंसोचनापड़ेगा। महोदय,मैंदो-चारसजेशंसदेकरअपनीबातसमाप्तकरूंगा।इसमेंइंटररेग्युलेटरकन्फ्यूजनहै।आरबीआईहो,सेबीहो,डीलिस्टिंगहो,तोइससंबंधमेंभीहमेंआगेकुछनकुछकरैक्शनकरनापड़ेगा।मुझेविश्वासहैकिमाननीयप्रधानमंत्रीनरेन्द्रमोदीजीकेनेतृत्वमेंहमएकअच्छाप्रयासकरनेजारहेहैं,रिजोल्यूशनकरनेजारहेहैं।जोदसलाखकरोड़एनपीएहै,उसमें more than Rs. 5,00,000 crore are as good as bad debts. ऐसीस्थितिहै।उसमेंसेटॉप 24 में हीआप 2 लाख करोड़केआसपासकासॉल्यूशनलेकरआगेजारहेहैं।मुझेविश्वासहैकिआपकोइसमेंसफलतामिलेगी। अंतमें,मैंफिरसेएकबारवहीदोहराताहूंकि“जोशुरुआतसेसफरकरताहै,मंजिलतोपालेताहै”।कुछतोलोगकहेंगे।आपकुछभीकहोगे,करोगे।माननीयखड़गेजी,मैंआपकाध्यानचाहताहूं। कुछतोलोगकहेंगे,लोगोंकाकामहैकहना। कोईजबरदस्तीगलेमिलेंगे,तोकोईआंखमारेंगे। हमेंतोअपनाकामकरतेरहनाहै। HON. DEPUTY SPEAKER: Next, Shri M. Veerappa Moily. SHRI MALLIKARJUN KHARGE : Sir, I just want to bring to your kind notice that after the Minister introduces the Bill and speaks, it is the prerogative of the opposition party to initiate the discussion. This is a wrong precedent. It is my request that it should not be clubbed like this. Let him raise the issues and those could be replied at the end. … (Interruptions) DR. KIRIT SOMAIYA : I have not said anything unparliamentary.… (Interruptions) SHRI MALLIKARJUN KHARGE : Sir, it is the right of the main Opposition Party to initiate the discussion.  We are not given that opportunity and Members from other Parties have been allowed to speak in between.  It is not a good thing. THE MINISTER OF STATE IN THE MINISTRY OF PARLIAMENTARY AFFAIRS AND MINISTER OF STATE IN THE MINISTRY OF WATER RESOURCES, RIVER DEVELOPMENT AND GANGA REJUVENATION (SHRI ARJUN RAM MEGHWAL): During the discussion in the BAC यहतयहुआथाकिआइटमनं 21 और 22 काडिस्कशनएकसाथकियाजाएगा।जबडिस्कशनएकसाथहोताहैतोजोजिसकेनामपररिजोल्यूशनहै,वहइनिशिएटभीकरसकताहै,इनिशिएटरहोसकताहै,यहस्पीकरकाडिसीजनथा। …( व्यवधान) HON. DEPUTY SPEAKER: We will discuss it. SHRI K.C. VENUGOPAL ( ALAPPUZHA ): Sir, it is misleading.… (Interruptions)  I also attended the BAC meeting and it was never discussed.… (Interruptions)  The hon. Minister knows that we do not discuss such things in the BAC.… (Interruptions)  BAC only allocates time… (Interruptions) SHRI M. VEERAPPA MOILY ( CHIKKABALLAPUR ): Mr. Deputy Speaker, Sir, the question raised by our Leader, Shri Kharge is about the right of the main Opposition Party to initiate the discussion.  Kindly consider it in future. The hon. Minister, Shri Piyush Goyal gave the contours of not only the amendments sought but also with regard to the entire Code.  In fact, the NCLT is formed under the Companies Act, 2013 .  We brought out the most innovative Companies Law in this country and NCLT is one of those innovative policies which was taken by our Government at that time, apart from the Corporate Social Responsibility Fund.  There are many other things and this is one such thing.  There are now as many as 12 branches spread over the country to handle these things.  We require clearer answers to particularly the turn of the questions which I would like to put across in this debate. Does the highest bidder maximise value?  This is the objective.  It is not the question that you get the maximum money.  What is not intended as the main objective is the recovery.  What is intended is to maximise the value of an entity.  All these things have been driven to the background and we think only in minute monetary terms.  That is not the purpose.  I happened to be the Corporate Affairs Minister when we drafted the Companies Law.  This was the objective.  Otherwise, there are recovery agents or recovery mechanisms.  We tried so many mechanisms and some failed while others partly succeeded.  I think this is the extension of that, extension of the recovery principle.  This is a very laudable objective.  It is done. The second question is, should the resolution process be changed to open bidding.  This is what he has said. Of course, there is already a comment from one of the very important industrialists who just came to start an industry.  In the beginning itself, he said that the Insolvency Law is a frustrate.  This is the observation by one of the persons who recently wanted to come, open an industry and settle in India.  This is the impression which has been created in the market world over. How do you remove this kind of an impression? The idea is to have ease of doing business. This is one of the major ideas. But, is this helping us to facilitate ease of doing business? Rather, this kind of an arrangement is making the business difficult. This is a question on which we require total clarification. Why is the need for secrecy? It should be transparent and open. The country should know about it because it is a question of the trust money of the people of this country. How is the trust money of the people of this country being looted, exploited and mis-utilized? The people of this country would like to know about it. This has to be built into in this Code. That was the idea. Then, should the High Court be excluded from the appeal process? Now, it is excluded. Why should it be excluded? There should be checks and balances at every stage. The idea is not to walk away with whatever you would like to have. If you do not have checks and balances, the people will just loot the money and will go away. You will not be preventing it. But, for such things, there should be checks and balances. Further, should the promoters be allowed to bid for their companies? That is another question. I am not responding to it. I think it is for the hon. Minister to answer this question and clarify. Should home buyers be treated as financial creditors? You have brought the amendment through Ordinance. You have given a partial answer. But, that is not just adequate. There are a number of things which are open for interpretation or defining it and again it will go to the court. When you are bringing a law of this kind, you need to define it properly with absolute clarity. Even though some answer is given to this question, but the answer is partial, confusing and it is with ambiguity. I will come back to you with some more details. Then, are the minority shareholders protected? In the concept of democracy – whether of an entity or of any Republic – the minorities become important. If they are not protected, democracy is negated. The democracy is meant for such people who need protection. Like that, minority shareholders will have to be protected. They are neglected. I do not think that in the scheme of things, this has been addressed. Another question is this. Are operational creditors protected? That is also in doubt. Then what happens to companies with overseas assets? The companies do not confine their operations not only to this country, but they also go abroad. What happens to that? There is no answer for that. Do laws need alignment? It is mandatory for a resolution plan to comply with all provisions of the law. For instance, take the case of approval of shareholders under the Companies Act and SEBI for changes in capital structures under the Resolution Plan. As per the resolution, regulations approval under shareholder agreements and incorporation of accord documents are exempted. The shareholders may block any part of the resolution plan, especially matters such as capital reduction. Similar alignment is required between SEBI regulations regarding requirement. It is not a standalone resolution. It cannot be. The company law is not a standalone law. It has to be aligned with SEBI, RBI and many others. After all, we are not working in a vacuum or in an isolated way or in a vertical way. In view of the fact that it is a company law connected with the financial regulations, it need to be connected and collated with others. The workload has increased in IBC immensely. We also find that banks are increasingly resorting to IBC and NCLT.  They are not taking any efforts on their own for recovery or resolution even though they have 180 days or 260 days time lag.  In the interregnum period, they do not do anything or their creditors do not do anything.  I feel they think that this is a God sent instrument and they resort to it. They cannot afford to do it also because their decision making power itself is questioned by various agencies of this Government.  They have created a fear-psychosis wherein decision-making power or a commercial decision taking power of the banking institutions is threatened.  Their autonomy is threatened.  Earlier, there were Vigilance Commissions and now the CBI.  Even the State Investigating Officers are also investigating.  The Chairman of Maharashtra Bank was arrested by the State Government.  I think tomorrow anybody can go to some court and obtain some warrant and any Chairman arrested or an Executive of a bank.    This kind of uncertainty is there. Then, of course, I will come to the larger question of how the banks are functioning.  A stock answer with you is that the NPAs are all of previous legacy.  But what have you done to correct that legacy except raising your hand?  They are now amounting to Rs.11 lakh crore or Rs.12 lakh crore.  I will come back to that.  It is galloping.  There is geographical progression now and not geometric progression.  This is what is happening today. The NCLT has become an easy instrument now.  They feel that the corporate houses with deep pockets can bid for multiple distressed assets under the insolvency process without getting themselves disqualified under Section 29 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Act.  They are free to do it.  All these monopoly Acts have gone and now they have a free play including a defaulting party. This is a holistic law.  Your oratory power should match with your action.  Of course, you have already faulted.  We need to work on this in a holistic way.   This Code was not referred to none of the Standing Committees.  Of course, you have a readymade Joint Select Committee Chairman from the Rajya Sabha.  You do not have faith in the Lok Sabha.  You do not refer the matter to us.  Bhartruhari Ji, they do not have faith in anyone of us and particularly they do not have faith in the Standing Committee on Finance.  We never used to do that.   We invariably used to refer any financial Bill to this Committee.  This was our legacy.  I do not know whether it is a good or bad legacy.  We used to refer all Bills to the Standing Committee on Finance. I am sorry to repeat that I had to remind this House that when I was the administrative Minister of Corporate Affairs,  I sent the Companies Law to the Standing Committee on Finance which was headed by the hon. Member, Shri Yashwant Sinha who was a former Finance Minister.  We sent it to him and he raised some objections.  Again, I sent it to him and third time also he did the same thing on various aspects.  I again sent it to him.  I had sent back four times that Bill to the Standing Committee on Finance.  This is the real democracy.  I think Bhartruhari Ji will agree because he was there in the earlier Committee and in the present Committee also. We will have to accept it. But I find a sense of intolerance for the views of the Standing Committee for any number of Reports we give; for any number of recommendations we give. Of course, I do not intend to say that you only reject it which you cannot but by and large, 90 per cent of the recommendations are rejected. For any democracy to survive, sustain and to be nurtured we need to have the highest sense of tolerance. But I sent back the Report for review by the Standing Committee on Finance four times when Shri Yashwant Sinha was the Chairman of the Standing Committee on Finance. I said that only after he approved the last sentence in the Company Law, I would adopt that and I did adhere to that statement. SHRI BHARTRUHARI MAHTAB ( CUTTACK ): The Government accepted all the recommendations of the Standing Committee. SHRI M. VEERAPPA MOILY : I accepted all the recommendations of the then Standing Committee on Finance. You have nothing to learn from that. This is the basic tenet of Parliamentary democracy. You may not agree. SHRI BHARTRUHARI MAHTAB : The present Finance Minister in-charge was also a Member of that Standing Committee on Finance. SHRI M. VEERAPPA MOILY : That is correct. So, that was a bad legacy and what you are adopting now is the right legacy. I am just telling you that. Whatever it is, maybe, that is your style of running a democracy and this is our style of running a democracy. We leave it to the people to judge. I would not like to make any other comment except saying this. Sir, here also this Bill after introduction was referred to the Joint Select Committee headed by an hon. Member from Rajya Sabha. The provisions of this Act had to be amended twice. Even today it is not perfect. How many times more would this Act have to be amended? That is why, people say that in the present state, the Insolvency Code is frustrating. It does not help business; it does not help investment. I would like to know if this has helped in a pie of investment in the country after the introduction of the provisions of the Insolvency Code. The answer is `no’. Think in the interest of the country. Please do not think in the interest of our Congress Party simply because we brought this law. Think of investment; think of future. I would like the Government to re-think on these aspects at least today. The Government should be fair enough to refer this Bill to the Standing Committee on Finance. It is not a matter of one or two questions. This cannot be an ad-hoc measure. As has been mentioned by hon. Member Shri Premachandran, the Government got stuck up in NCLT in one case where the threshold limit has to be brought down to help that party. That is the only intention. That means that this Ordinance is tainted. How to remove that taint? It is not going to help you. There is a report and I do not know if you have gone through this Report or not. There is a report of the Insolvency Law Committee of March 2018 which was sponsored by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Government of India. The report runs into 100s of pages. The report has come out with several suggestions. The Government may go through the summary of the recommendations. There are recommendations proposing amendments to the subordinate legislation. You picked up only one suggestion from this. However, increase of the threshold limit was not a suggestion of this Committee. I think, the Government must be having its private Committee from its own sources. I salute the Government. It is an outcome of your independent source and independent report. You produce it before the Committee.  At least let us go through it in the Committee. So, this does not help you at all.  Of course, as far as home buyers are concerned, you have partially taken the suggestion mentioned in para 1.7 of page 17 of this Report.  Home buyers are considered partially and not fully.  There are so many other things here.  My request to this House, through the hon. Deputy-Speaker, is to kindly refer this Bill to the Standing Committee on Finance along with this Report of the officials.  Let it examine it and come out with a holistic Report.  Where is the hurry now? … (Interruptions) Is the time allotted to me over? HON. DEPUTY SPEAKER:  Yes, the time allotted to you is already over.  But try to be brief and conclude your speech. SHRI K.C. VENUGOPAL :  Sir, this is a very important discussion. HON. DEPUTY SPEAKER:  That is all right. Then you cut down the time of other speakers from your Party. SHRI M. VEERAPPA MOILY :    No, I do not want to take away the time of other Members.… (Interruptions) Shri Venugopal, the Government does not want a proper discussion. They want to bulldoze this Bill as they are anxious.  There is greed behind this amendment.  They want to respond to that greed.… (Interruptions) HON. DEPUTY SPEAKER:  Come to the point, Shri Moily. SHRI M. VEERAPPA MOILY : They want to respond to that greed to loot the trusted money of the banks.   What will happen to this Report?  Should I tear it down here?  Is there any value for this Report?  Refer this Report along with this Bill to the Standing Committee on Finance and have a holistic approach. And majority Members are from your Party. All the 61 Reports given by me are unanimous.   Nobody has disagreed with them. That does not mean that your Members are not thinking-people. They are thinking-people.  There are very brilliant Members in that  Committee including Dr. Kirit Somaiya. You know the nature of Dr. Kirit Somaiya.  He is very dynamic and boisterous but when he comes to the Committee meeting, he is highly disciplined. … (Interruptions) That is why, this requires to be referred to the  Standing Committee.   Have faith in democracy and the Committee system.  The Committee system is a well tested system.… (Interruptions) When there is no time, what is the point in continuing?… (Interruptions) HON. DEPUTY SPEAKER:  It is not like that.  You please come to the point.  You have already told about the Committee system. SHRI M. VEERAPPA MOILY :  Then that means that till now I have not come to the point.  If that is the remark of the Deputy-Speaker, then I cannot continue. HON. DEPUTY SPEAKER: Please listen to me. Your Party has been given 16 minutes.  There are many other speakers to speak.  Therefore, I am requesting you to be brief and try to conclude. SHRI M. VEERAPPA MOILY :  I am on the point only.  I am not off the point.  I have come well prepared. SHRI K.C. VENUGOPAL : Sir, he is the Chairman of the Standing Committee on Finance.   He is initiating the discussion also.  How can you hurry up in this type of Bills? HON. DEPUTY SPEAKER:   I have to accommodate other Members also. SHRI M. VEERAPPA MOILY :  This House Is not for accommodation.  This House is for a well-considered deliberation and a good product for future.   The product is a good law and not a bad law and not a half-baked law. HON. DEPUTY SPEAKER:   Do not argue on the same point. You make some other points. SHRI M. VEERAPPA MOILY :  Sir, you tell me what point I should speak on. I will go by your advice. … (Interruptions) The amendments are half-baked.  They are targeted to help only a few people.  I think, some developers wanted some relief and you have come with these amendments but how about the allottees who are suffering?  There is no safeguard at all for them. Is it a secured loan or unsecured loan? Is there any definition for that? There is no definition at all. It will be open to the interpretation of the courts and interpretation of the NCLT. In a way, it is not going to help even the house allottees. What is the point in keeping the threshold at Rs. 1 lakh? In that case, there will be multiple litigations. Make the limit to Rs. 10 crore so that only such cases go to the NCLT. Otherwise, now, you are driving every case to the NCLT. The banks cannot recover even Rs. 1 lakh. You give them the leverage up to Rs. 10 lakhs. That is also the point which will have to be properly considered. It will not help the real estate.… (Interruptions) It will help them because you are reducing 83 per cent haircut and making it to 66 per cent. Do you want the standard haircut of 66 per cent to be given to everybody?  I think that it will help only those people. But, you are not protecting. The ultimate goal is to protect the depositors of the banks. You are not injecting any discipline into the system. If you are not introducing any discipline into the system, I think there will be a total anarchy and it is not going to help anybody except the persons whom you think that it can help. That is the intention, no doubt. In fact, you do not look at the economic environment. Of course, to a certain extent because of the world crisis, the growth plunged after 2011. This helped to bring your Government into office. Seven years later, the economy has still not recovered to its pre-2011 position. That means that you have to go. The Modi Government has to give place for a new Government. But they do not address the problem. They do not think that there is a problem within them. They think that everything is all right. Today, the economy of the country is there on the pre-2011 position. You are not redressing it. There is a wilful blindness about the main cause of the bad loans. You shut your eyes; shut your ears about all these things and the bad loans are just raising. The recycling of the funds cannot be done because it is not within the banks. You have taken away that kind of a right from them. There are several challenges in the banking sector- Resolution of the stressed assets. The level of the banks is such that they cannot even lend the retail loans. They have been disabled from February 12, 2018. At that stage, if you want to give haircut to the extent of 60 percent; 50 per cent and even 84 per cent, who is going to save these banks? I think there is a deliberate and conscious effort on the part of this Government to de-nationalise the banks. They want to de-nationalise and achieve that purpose. Just because you are in power, you would like to achieve that objective. You have no faith in the system of nationalisation of the banks. When you do not have faith, of course, you would like to ensure that whatever the system you have introduced, you would like to carry on with it. Twenty-four lenders have signed the pact for faster NPA Resolutions. You are not interested to resolve this. You feel that everything should be referred to NCLT. You do not want to go in for any other mechanism. All these people have already returned to the Reserve Bank of India. It includes the State Bank of India. There should be a faster NPA resolution, but there is no action on this by this Government. Their solution is only NCLT. Now, NCLT has become the mechanism to siphon off the treasury of this Government. I think we will have to be extra careful on this. Banks are totally disabled now. On the one side, there is NCLT which is hanging as the Damocles’ sword on their head and on the other side, there is higher provisioning because of NPAs and a sharp rise in bad loans. Then, the Reserve Bank of India has found that banks have delayed in classifying accounts as NPAs. They are blaming each other. In addition to that, the Reserve Bank of India says that they have no power to act upon the Nationalised Banks. If there is no power, it is your duty to empower the Reserve Bank of India. It is the regulator. The regulator will have to be empowered to act. They say they have no power and you say you have power. I think, in this tangle, ultimately people have become powerless. So, I want you to apply your mind on that. In fact, the divergence in NPA as on 31st March, 2018 stood at more than Rs. 60,000 crore, as compared to Rs. 43,500 crore as on 31st March, 2016. The bad loans are more than 12 per cent today and there is no mechanism to address this issue, except asking the banks not to lend. The credit growth has come down, credit to farmers has come down, credit to investments has come down and bad loans lost to banks based on the offers made by suitors rise to a very high amount and you want to adopt more methods to siphon off the funds of the banks. All mechanisms have been strengthened to hound bankers and the indiscriminate hunt for banking staff will scare off even honest lending at a time when the Indian economy has to recover. So, you do not want Indian economy to recover. I think this Bill is of no consequence. It will not serve the purpose. Even if it serves, it will serve only the interests of one or two individuals, rather the economy of the nation. An amount of Rs. 81,000 crore has already been waived off after this Government came to power. But you are not prepared to give even a pie to farmers. There is no money for farmers, but there is plenty of money available for big industrialists. This will further strengthen their hands for lending adequately or more to these corporate bodies. The Congress Party is not against good corporate bodies. We are only against those bad corporate bodies who are out to siphon off the funds of banks, looting the banks and running away from this country. They are consciously moving from this country to that country because you are incapable of catching them. By merely passing an Act, you are not going to get them. What happened to your executive hand? That has been crippled. You are not in a position to execute even the present law, but you want an additional law. I think there may be a purpose under that so that you can pick and choose cases. With these words, I thank you very much for the time given to me. But I again insist that this Bill may be referred to the Standing Committee. If the Government is really and honestly wanting to achieve the real intent of setting up NCLT, this Bill should be referred to the Standing Committee. … (Interruptions) We do not want to take the credit for this. You give 15 days’ time, we can give the Report. What is the hurry? You justify it here. They have already waited for the last two months. They can wait for another month and refer this Bill to the Standing Committee. DR. P. VENUGOPAL ( TIRUVALLUR ): Hon. Deputy-Speaker, Sir, I am thankful to you  for giving me this opportunity to speak on the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Second Amendment) Bill, 2018. In effect, this Bill replaces the Ordinance promulgated by the Government on 6th June, 2018.  The Interim Finance Minister while introducing this Bill in this House this week had said that ‘in order to finetune the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, an Insolvency Law Committee was set up by the Government to suggest amendments to the IBC.’  Based on the recommendations of the ILC, this Bill has been brought in the Parliament.  It seems to me that this Government has a fetish for   issuing Ordinances. The IBC (First  Amendment)  Bill, 2018 also essentially replaced the Ordinance promulgated by the Government on 23rd November, 2017.  Not only this, the Government amended the Banking (Regulation) Act on 5th May, 2017 by issuing an Ordinance authorising the Reserve Bank to issue directions to any banking company to initiated insolvency and resolution process in respect of the default   under the provisions of IBC. It is common knowledge that the Ordinance route to legislate is resorted to by the Executive to meet certain exigencies.  Since the Bill under discussion, basically gives effect to the recommendations of the Insolvency Law Committee, what were the compelling circumstances that forced the Government to issue an Ordinance when it could have easily waited for the Monsoon Session, which was hardly a month away? A concern was raised by my dear friend Shri Mahtab-ji, when the Bill was introduced last week in this House, regarding the real intent of the Government in using the Ordinance route.  Last month, in one of the resolution cases concluded under IBC, banks have taken a huge 83 per cent haircut on the sale of Alok Industries bagged by the Reliance Industries-JM Financials ARC combine for just Rs. 5,000 crore.  Alok Industries owed its creditors an amount of about Rs. 30,000 crore. The resolution plan of Reliance  was put to vote before the Committee of Creditors of Alok Industries on June 20th and  received the assent of 72 per cent  of the total creditors.  It is very interesting to note that the voting threshold required to pass a resolution was lowered to 66 per cent from 75 per cent on June 6th by issuing the Ordinance, just 14 days before the date when the CoC of Alok Industries was scheduled to meet to approve the resolution plan submitted by Reliance. This plan to get Alok Industries at a throwaway price of Rs. 5,000 crore was rejected by the same CoC on its meeting held on 13th April especially in view of the fact that this company has an asset base of about Rs. 32,000 crore as per the latest available balance sheet. A perception has built up that the Government is working for the benefit of some corporates that the resolution of Alok Industries was facilitated with the assistance of the Government by amending the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code with such alacrity, which is rarely seen otherwise.  It is very apparent that IBC was amended in such  a haste with the objective to allow Reliance to take over Alok Industries, and in the process, the banks took a massive haircut of 83 per cent. Sir, I would urge upon the hon. Minister that in the name of NPA clean up, the Government should not be seen promoting crony capitalism. SHRI MALLIKARJUN KHARGE ( GULBARGA ):  But still you are supporting them.  What is this? … (Interruptions) DR. P. VENUGOPAL : Now, coming to the specifics of the Bill, I would like to say that the Bill seeks to amend the definition of the financial debt under Section 5(8)(f) by providing that an amount raised from an allottee under a real estate project shall be deemed to be an amount having the commercial effect of a borrowing. The homebuyers are now classified as financial creditors. They can now initiate the insolvency process against an erring defaulting company, and seek the benefits of the resolution plan. But if the resolution fails and the company goes into liquidation, the amended law does not state whether homebuyers being unsecured creditors will get as much claim on assets of the company as secured financial creditors. Being treated as 'secured' or 'unsecured' is important in the "waterfall" mechanism which sets out the order of priority in which, proceeds from the sale of liquidation assets are to be distributed under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code. In my state Tamil Nadu, there is a practice of having two separate agreements between homebuyers and builders for land and apartment which gives the customer the status of a secured creditor. Maybe the Government can take cue from this. Hon. Deputy Speaker, Sir, my second point is that in a big relief to MSME sector, a new Section 240 A has been inserted in the Code. The new Clause enables the promoter of MSME to bid for his enterprise undergoing Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process provided he is not a wilful defaulter and does not attract other disqualifications not related to default. It is good that the Government has realised sooner than later that MSMEs form the backbone of the Indian economy in terms of employment generation and economic growth. This is a welcome step as business of an MSME attracts interest primarily from its promoter. There may not be other resolution applicants in a number of resolution cases of MSMEs and excluding the promoter also would have only led to more liquidation of MSMEs. However, it would be better if the Government provides a debt threshold so that companies with high debt but low turnover do not misuse the carve-outs. My third point is that the Bill seeks to amend Section 21 by allowing "class of creditors" exceeding specified number to be represented by an authorized insolvency professional. New section 25A has been inserted to provide for the rights of such authorized representatives. This will also enable the home-buyers to have an insolvency professional as their representative in the proceedings. This is a welcome amendment as it will ensure that serious deliberations take place in CoC meetings with adequate representations of all the effected parties but without the attendant raucousness if thousands of people gather to attend the meeting of CoC. The Bill amends Section 10 of the Code by providing for special resolution for initiating CIRP by corporate debtor itself. Since commencement of CIRP is a major decision for the corporate debtor and may have a huge impact on its functioning or even may lead to its liquidation, a special resolution passed by the shareholders of the corporate debtor is necessary. The Bill has closed the loophole which was being exploited by unscrupulous guarantors by amending the sub- Section 3 of Section 14 by stating that moratorium under 14(1) would not apply to guarantors of the Corporate Debtor. There were conflicting views of the Allahabad High court and NCLT Mumbai over this matter. This amendment settles the debate on this issue. The Bill seeks to amend Section 31 of the Code by providing that the resolution professional shall obtain necessary approvals required under any law for the time being in force within 1 year from the date of approval by NCLT or within such period as provided for under the law, whichever is later. This amendment basically gives effect to the suggestion of the ILC on this issue. The provision does not make it clear whether obtaining such statutory approvals within the specified time frame is a condition precedent for maintainability of the resolution plan or a consequential mandatory obligation on the part of the successful resolution applicant. What would happen if the resolution applicant fails to get regulatory approvals within the specified time frame? I would like to know whether the hon. Minister would clarify this issue. The Bill inserts clause (e) to Section 17(2) of the Code to provide that the interim resolution professional shall be responsible for complying with the requirements under any law for the time being in force on behalf of the corporate debtor. The amendment incorporates the recommendation made by ILC by making the IRP responsible for the statutory compliances while managing the affairs of the corporate debtor. However, it must also be provided in the Code that the IRP shall not be held liable for any acts done without his knowledge or connivance and for acts which do not arise out of his conduct. Section 30 of the Code has been amended to waive away the requirement of shareholders’ approval required under the Companies Act, 2013 or any other law for the time being in force, for implementation of actions under the resolution plan. This amendment legislates the Ministry's clarificatory circular on this issue. I would urge upon the hon. Minister to reconsider this proposal as it might have adverse impact on the rights of minority shareholders. Section 231 of the Code has been amended to provide for bar of jurisdiction of civil courts or authorities in matters under jurisdiction of the adjudicating authority and the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (IBBI). IBBI is a regulatory body having regulatory oversight over the Insolvency Professionals, Insolvency Professional Agencies, Insolvency Professional Entities and Information Utilities. IBBI is not a judicial body. It is very strange that the Government proposes to put the matters under IBBI beyond the jurisdiction of courts. This is not a tenable proposition and is liable to be struck down by the Judiciary. Therefore, I would propose the hon. Minister to seriously reconsider this clause in the amendment Bill. With these observations and clarifications, I conclude. Thank You, Sir. PROF. SAUGATA ROY ( DUM DUM ): Thank you, Sir. I rise to speak on the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Second Amendment) Bill, 2018. This Bill seeks to replace the Ordinance which was promulgated on June 6, 2018. Before I speak on the Bill itself, I need to mention two points – it is nothing personal.  First, I want to know whether Shri Piyush Goyal is a caretaker Finance Minister or a full-fledged Finance Minister.  It is because, the question has been raised because the Twitter handle of the Finance Ministry shows Shri Arun Jaitley as Finance Minister. HON. DEPUTY SPEAKER: Even in his speech itself, he said that Shri Arun Jaitley is the Finance Minister.  He never claimed that he is the Finance Minister. PROF. SAUGATA ROY : Let him clarify it. HON. DEPUTY SPEAKER: No, he already spoke. PROF. SAUGATA ROY : Sir, why is he speaking on his behalf? HON. DEPUTY SPEAKER: It is not on his behalf but because he spoke on that day.  I want to pass on the message to you. PROF. SAUGATA ROY: Sir, at the back of the Bill, it is written: “Shri Piyush Goyal, Minister of Railways, Coal, Finance and Corporate Affairs”.  So, I do not know what he speaks and what he says.  I want this clarification to be made. The other point I want to note is this.  Yesterday, there was a big victory for the Opposition in this country against this Government.  Shri Piyush Goyal, in a letter to our Joint Committee on the Financial Resolution and Deposit Insurance Bill, said that they have decided to withdraw the Bill. This is the first time, in the face of Opposition by the Opposition, that the Government withdrew the Bill about which they are very serious. There was a nationwide outcry against the bail-in provision where systemically important financial institutions could go into depositors’ money to bail-in. Mr. Goyal wrote to the Chairman of the Committee. It is very wise of him because if that Bill was brought, the Opposition would not have to do anything. They would lose anyway the election.  So, good wisdom has prevailed on them which is good but I see it as the victory of the Opposition. Thirdly, I remember that when this IBC code was brought to this House, Mr. Jaitley wanted to pass it in a hurry.  I had to speak for one hour on that day so that the Bill was referred to the Joint Committee.  Ultimately, the Bill was passed and this Bill became the part of the law.  Now, I do not know why, within two years of having a new Bill which was drafted after much consultation, the Minister and the Government wants to bring in so many changes in the Bill which is only two years old. This Government did the same with the Company’s Law. The Act which is not fully tested, they went for an amendment.  They are doing the same with this.  … (Interruptions) HON. DEPUTY SPEAKER: Mr. Dubey, do not divert his attention. प्रो.सौगतराय : उसकेबादबिलकोअमेंडकरनेकीइतनीजल्दीक्याथी?कानूनपहलेदो-चालसालतकचले,उसकेबादअमेंडमेंडलायाजाए।हड़बड़ीमेंअमेंडमेंडलानाकोईबुद्धिमत्तापूर्णकामनहींहै।निशिकान्तजीआपइंटेलिजेन्टआदमीहैं,आपइसचीजकोसमझतेहैं।This is not to say that there is nothing good about this amendment.  One best thing is that the relief is given to home buyers.  They will be the part of the financial creditors.  The Bill clarifies that an allottee under the real estate project will be considered as a financial creditor.  Now, I was wondering if this collides with the Real Estate Regulation Act where there is a regulator also. I considered and found that in RERA Act , it is limited to only one construction company.  But one of my friends explained to me that if it comes under this Bill, then the whole company would be affected.  Take the case of Jaypee Group.  They are not giving flats to people in Greater Noida who have deposited the money.  Now, this Bill will allow the flat allottees to claim as creditors and they may get the money back. So, this is a good point in the Bill.  But the weakness of the Bill is that this Bill establishes the rights of the rich over the ordinary people because the unsecured creditors will be finished with this Bill.  A company has dues to many small people like small suppliers, small traders and so on and so forth. Now, if you give 51 per cent resolution, then only the big capitalists will get their due and unsecured creditors will get nothing. The other danger about the Bill which I will point out in detail later is that this Bill seeks to create a monopoly.  You see Tata’s are buying up Bhushan Steel which means two or three steel companies like Tata and Jindal will gobble up all the steel industry. Then they will form a cartel and control the steel prices.  Recently, Shri Gadkari Ji had said that cement companies are cartelizing. This cartelization will take place in the steel industry through this Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code. 16 00 hrs 

          The other good point about this Bill is this. For the first time, it covers the MSMEs. Earlier, the MSMEs were not fully touched. The Bill states that the ineligibility criteria for resolution applicants regarding NPAs and guarantors will not apply to person applying for resolution of MSMEs. The Central Government may modify or remove other provisions in the Code while applying them to MSMEs because normally there would not be many buyers for the MSMEs. So, unless you give some concessions, these MSMEs, which employ a large number of people, will just be left closed. So, this inclusion of MSMEs is a good step in this Bill. Then, the dangerous part of the Bill is-- I will go into it later as to how it has affected--voting threshold of the Committee of Creditors. The Code specifies that all decisions of the Committee of Creditors be taken by majority of at least 75 per cent of the financial creditors. This Bill lowers the threshold to 51 per cent. For certain key decisions, voting threshold has been reduced from 75 per cent to 66 per cent. This includes (i) appointment and replacement of the resolution professional and (ii) approval of the resolution plan. This is dangerous for corporate democracy, as I will show you later. I need not go into the actual details of what the condition of banking industry is. We are in the worst crisis and there is a slow push towards de-nationalisation of banks that Mr. Veerappa Moily had pointed it out. There are, in total, 963 wilful defaulters who together owe Rs.1,10,000 crore to the banks, according to the Government’s reply. The banks are in dire trouble. Now the Reserve Bank has stepped in and they have introduced what is known as ‘Prompt Corrective Action’ (PCA). What does that mean? The Reserve Bank has asked certain banks that they should not expand; they should not open new branches. It has told a bank like Dena Bank that they cannot lend at all. Now what will banks do, if they do not lend? The banks’ income is by lending the money of the depositors. Now, in order to save the banks, the Reserve Bank is talking of PCA. You do not lend at all. In this crisis, under Mr. Veerappa Moily’s Chairmanship, the Committee on Finance met all the top bankers of the country many times. They say they see some hopes in the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC). Now, the moot question is: whether the IBC is the solution? What is IBC leading to? The IBC is leading to what? Even Mr. Venugopal, whose Party supported the Government on the No Confidence Motion, said this is leading to crony capitalism. I will give you a few examples. Let us see the case of Bhushan Steel where the loan outstanding referred to NCLT was Rs.56,000 crore. The Tatas have taken over that company for Rs.35,200 crore. So, the banks have lost Rs.21,000 crore. That is a haircut of nearly 40 per cent. Is it resolution? श्रीकिरीटसोमैयाजीनेबोलाकिकुछतोमिला, 21 हजार करोड़रुपयाएन.सी.एल.टी.काहैयासरकारकाहै,यहगरीबडिपाजिटर्सकाहै,उसकोआपनेटाटाकेलिएहेयरकटदिया। Look at Electrosteel. It is a factory in Bokaro. The dues to the banks were Rs.13,600 crore. Vedanta, Anil Agarwal-led company has purchased it for Rs.5,320 crore. Banks sacrifice Rs.8400 crore and haircut is 60 per cent. In Bhushan Steel, the haircut was 40 per cent. In Electrosteel Steel Ltd., the haircut is 60 per cent. Now, comes the Alok Industries’ deal. The company owes to the banks Rs.30,000 crore. Do you know how much Reliance has taken it over for? It is just for Rs.5000 crore that Reliance took it over. The banks sacrificed Rs.25,000 crore and the haircut in this case is 83 per cent. Mr. Mahtab, who opposed the introduction of this Bill, pointed this out very boldly. He said that this Ordinance was brought so that Reliance could acquire Alok Industries for a cheap price and the voting percentage was brought down from 75 per cent to 66 per cent. It means, if 66 per cent stakeholders agree, the deal is through. So, it is just for the sake of Reliance that the Government brought in an Ordinance. Sir, the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code in which all parties participated is a good law. When the bankers come to us, they say that the only hope they see is in the IBC that they can recover some of the money that has gone. But, Sir, the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code is not a panacea; it is not a cure for all ills of the banking system. So, we have led the country into a morass, into a blind alley and I really do not know as to how we would come out of it. Sir, one of the strong points of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code is that it has said that within 180 days corporate insolvency would be resolved. The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code is essentially limited to the corporate in the sense that it deals with only the corporate part. The Part-III of the Code, which deals with insolvency, resolution and bankruptcy for individual and partnership firm is yet to be commenced. So far, the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code is regarding the corporates and their insolvency resolution. Now, let me take the example of Ruias, that is, Essar Steel. In the case of Essar Steel, it has crossed 270 days because both the companies, which were bidding, Numetal and ArcelorMittal, were belonging to Lakshmi Mittal and were found by the resolution professionals to be ineligible to participate in the bidding process, that is, Numetal – because of its association with Rewant Ruia, son of the promoter of Essar Steel and ArcelorMittal – because of it owes bankers money in its capacity as a promoter of Uttam Galva Steel. Despite of IBC’s specifying that it has to be resolved within 180 days, it has not happened. So, I would urge the Minister that in the deepening gloom that surrounds the banking industry, it is putting the hard-earned money of depositors at risk and putting the future of country’s economy at risk. The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code may have been a shining light, but if the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code continues in this way in its effort to support crony capitalism in giving hair cut – this is the word that I learnt from my friend, Shri Uday Singh, who talks of haircut, waterfall mechanism of bitcoins, cryptocurrencies. … (Interruptions) Sir, he is very knowledgeable … (Interruptions) HON. DEPUTY SPEAKER: Do not reply to others. … (Interruptions) PROF. SAUGATA ROY : Sir, the other thing that I want to mention is that only 12 companies were referred to NCLT by RBI, but under IBC … (Interruptions)       another 30 have gone in for liquidation. The problem is that you are not resorting companies. Shall I read the list of companies which have gone into liquidation? HON. DEPUTY SPEAKER: No. Please conclude. PROF. SAUGATA ROY : Bhupen Electronics, Wind-Ways Packaging, REI Agro etc. have gone into liquidation. HON. DEPUTY SPEAKER: Everybody knows that. PROF. SAUGATA ROY : I would like this law, caretaker Finance Minister, to succeed because as an Indian, I cannot afford to see our banking industry collapsing. If this provides a ray of hope in the pervading gloom, this is good. I would request him to please see that the haircut advantages do not go to the pockets of the money-bags of the country. I also support Mr. Moily’s proposal to send it to the Standing Committee headed by him. Thank you. SHRI BHARTRUHARI MAHTAB ( CUTTACK ): Mr. Deputy Speaker, Sir, this is the second amendment relating to the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code Bill that we are deliberating today, which has been followed by the Bill. Actually, the gazette notification was issued on 6th June, 2018. This date is very specific because it is the day when a decision was taken by the Government to support one specific company and that promoted this Ordinance. … (Interruptions) It is a big amendment. A number of clauses are there. This amendment runs into 40 clauses. I was not opposed to all the clauses the day I stood up and I had specifically mentioned this. Today also, I am mentioning that it is clause no. 25 relating to Section 33 of the principal Act, about which my friend, Mr. Premachandran has mentioned, Dr. Venugopal has mentioned and Prof. Saugata Roy has also mentioned. There was a Secretary-level committee which was entrusted with the task, after the November Ordinance, after the first amendment was moved and it was passed in this House and by the Parliament. The Secretary-level committee gave a report to the Government. I would like to understand from the hon. Minister specifically whether they suggested an amendment to Section 33 , which he has incorporated in clause 25? Was it there in their recommendations or not? If there was some recommendation from the Secretary-level committee, then one can say that it has nothing to do with the specific company and you can justify. If it is not there, then you have to explain what prompted you to bring an Ordinance in the month of June. The House had adjourned and it was supposed to be convened in the month of July. What prompted you to bring an Ordinance hurriedly or why could you not wait for another 30, 40 or 50 days? You could have brought a Bill during this Session. During this period, what has happened and what specific steps have been taken through this Ordinance that has helped the NCLT, that has helped to do away with bad debt and that has helped different banks or different industries where resolution has not taken place. If that can be explained to us, as Shri Udasi always says, the country will be benefited. It will also help to understand what specific steps have been taken because of this Ordinance, what it has forced the Government to think that there is a necessity of an Ordinance and the Hon’ble President has been forced to sign it. It is mentioned there that the corporate Houses, with their deep-pockets, can bid for multiple distressed assets under the insolvency process without getting themselves disqualified under Section 29A of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code.  This Section was incorporated in the original Act through an Ordinance in November, 2017.  Again, another amendment with a number of clauses has come in this Second Amendment Bill also.   This is provided in this second amendment. Why could it not be thought of in the first amendment itself, in November, 2017?  This clearly demonstrates that we are trying to amend this Act just as and when the matter comes and when our wisdom dawns upon us. I think that this Government is a thinking Government.  At the time of demonetisation, a new notification was coming every day. It is a sign of a thinking Government. So, in this case also, a number of sections are being amended repeatedly. In the new Bill, Section 29A, will apply to a resolution applicant holding a non-performing assent account due to the acquisition of a distressed assets with an NPA account for three years and from the day of such acquisition.  This will ensure that the corporates that have already bought a distressed asset are not prohibited from bidding for more such assets. I think It has a different connotation. This will also offer a disqualification breather to financial entities holding NPAs. They, too, will be exempted from Section 29A. This Bill, most importantly, treats the homebuyers as financial creditors giving them a better say in the resolution plan of developers. Any amount raised from an allottee of a real estate project will be deemed to be an amount having the commercial effect of debt or borrowing.  The Bill has defined the expression ‘allottee’ and ‘real estate project’ which was not there earlier. Further this Bill allows the promoters of MSMEs to bid for their companies in any insolvency process. It also empowers the Union Government in public interest to exempt MSMEs from application of any other provisions of the Code. I will come to this aspect a little later.  I will seek the clarification from the Hon’ble Minister of MSMEs, how it is going to benefit the entrepreneurs to a greater extent. The Bill provides for the insertion of a new Section 12A to permit the withdrawal of application admitted for initiation of insolvency resolution process. The application can be made only with the approval of 90 per cent of voting share of the Committee of Directors. There are other provisions in the Bill.  The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India will be given a developmental role similar to other regulators such IRDAI and PFRDA. It will also be given the power to regulate the working and practice of certain professionals under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code(IBC). The Bill further provides that the Limitation Act of 1963 will be applicable to the proceedings or appeals under the IBC.  These are the new provisions which have come under this Amendment.  But the objections that I have relates to the provision of the lowering of the voting threshold for various important decisions of the Committee of Creditors to 66 per cent, and  to 51 per cent for routine decisions. Here, I come to what this Section says. Clause 25 states that : However, a Supreme Court judgement states that the admission requires application of judicial binding. What if the defaulting company has a counter claim against the creditor? What will happen if there is an error in the calculation, or if the service wasn’t fully provided for which claim is being made, or if it is a frivolous claim? For all this, the apex court has said, Judicial Bench should `hear out’ the parties. But it can lead to untold delays by adjournment. The Law Minister is before us today. It can lead us to a number of adjournments. Therefore, a template approach is made to reduce the time drastically. It is high time to strengthen the IBC by templatising the admission process and make it largely procedural. Only in small minority of cases will a judicial hearing and scrutiny be needed. This will go a long way in making this landmark law more effective. These are suggestions which I am making before this House, and also through you, to the Government. The Code postulates two types of creditors, namely, a financial creditor, and an operational creditor. Financial creditor is defined as any person to whom a financial debt is owed. An operational creditor is one to whom operational debt is owed. On 23rd November, 2017, by an Ordinance, Section 29(a) was inserted after Section 29 of the principal Act. The purpose of this amendment was to restrict people who with their misconduct `contributed to default of company’ or who are otherwise undesirable or could misuse their position due to lack of restriction and regain control of the corporate debtor. However, the element of misconduct is conspicuously absent. `Misconduct’, I would say, is conspicuously absent in Section 29 (a. Why am I saying this? I am saying this because the Chairman of the Finance Committee repeatedly requested you to refer it to the Finance Committee for consideration. These are certain questions which remain unanswered. Therefore, the question that begs answers are these. How can misconduct be established without adjudication? Why should stakeholders, who are victims of bona fide business failures, be excluded from the resolution process? A legal challenge to this amendment could well result in the amendment being declared as ultra vires of Article 14 and 19(1)(g) of the Constitution, that empowers the citizens. Coming to the MSME sector, it actually is restricting. This amendment, I apprehend, may restrict relief proposed for MSMEs. The exemptions for MSMEs from the provisions of Section 29(a) has been considered, after it was found there was little investor interest, apart from promoters. While earlier it provided exemptions  for MSMEs from all disabilities under Section 29(a) , the exemptions are now proposed to be restricted to only two situations – under Clause C and Clause H. There is a need to reconsider. I had stated earlier in May this year that Bhushan Steel was sold to Tata Steel. Almost 65 per cent of the loan was recovered; and 35 per cent was written off. This was termed as a very successful resolution of a bad loan. I had drawn the attention of the House to Alok Industries, a textile company, where a haircut was done for about 83-84 per cent. This is exactly the opposite of the Bhushan Steel Resolution. Reliance Industry and JM Financial Asset Reconstruction Company combined were the sole bidder and had given a ‘take it or leave it’ offer to the Committee of Creditors in April and this Ordinance came in the month of June. The CoC could not gather enough votes to act on the resolution plan. The proposal got 70 or 71 per cent of the votes while 75 per cent votes were needed. An Ordinance amending the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code lowered the minimum votes needed for passing a resolution plan to 66 per cent from 75 per cent. I fail to understand as to how this 66 per cent came in. It could have been 50 per cent, 51 per cent or 67 per cent, a little bit of arithmetic could be done, but it came to 66 per cent. The NCLT accepted the resolution plan. There was a re-do of voting of the voting process. The sole bid went through after the match was fixed. The issue is that when a haircut is being done, all are happy; the bank is happy, the auditor is happy, the promoter is happy and this Government is also happy. We heard that another member from the Treasury Bench was also very happy. If any member from this side raised the objection relating to the massive amount of money being siphoned off by promoters in active connivance with bankers and auditors, we hear jeers from the Treasury side. An hon. MP from the Treasury Benches was singing eloquence about the resolution mechanism being followed now. I would like to remind him of one Shri Rajendra Ganatra, a Mumbai-based resolution professional, who estimates that bad loan average recovery will only be 10-15 per cent. We know the amount of bad loan is expanding and is getting multiplied. It is becoming a humongous affair. What would it actually be? This is what Shri Rajendra Ganatra has said, “it would not be more than 10-15 per cent even if IBC come into force”. Before I conclude, I must say that the bad loan resolution does nothing to break the nexus between bankers in Public Sector Banks and promoters. Banks face no punishment for writing off 84 per cent of the loan. Where are the reports of forensic audit? Should nobody be held responsible? Public money of billions of rupees looted by promoters in connivance with bankers is being written off but here, it is being hailed as a success. This is not something one should relish. The bigger question is: Who is going to protect the public money? This law is framed to retrieve as much money from the bad debt. But adequate measures need to be taken to go into the issue of loot of public money. If IBC is unable to do that, let the Minister of Finance and Corporate Affairs, who is a wise person, share his wisdom with this House. *m09 

SHRI PIYUSH GOYAL : Three- four hon. Members have repeatedly talked about such thing. I thought it would be appropriate to set the record straight because I was also surprised when this issue was flagged off by Shri Mahtab earlier when I introduced the Bill. But I had forgotten about it because I never took it seriously and I never thought that there was any merit in the baseless allegation. But since Shri Premachandran, Shri Moily and Shri Mahtab have raised the same point, I thought for the benefit of the hon. Members first. Let me set that one issue right so that everybody looks at this whole Amendment with the positive spirit. Hon.Chairman Sir, the report of the Insolvency Law Committee came on 26th march, 2018. Several Members including Moily sahib, Chairman of the Standing Committee on Finance, have referred to the report. In fact, Moily sahib said that we have not considered 90 per cent of the report. I can give the details of how almost every clause of the report has been considered and accepted and brought into this amendment, which is why this is such a large amendment. There are a few things and we can put in public domain as to why we did not accept just a few parts of the report. The Committee has very illustrious members. If you look at the list of members, there are very eminent lawyers on the Committee. Presidents of Institute of Chartered Accountants, Company Secretaries Institute, Cost Accountants Institute; eminent bankers, Dr. M.S. Sahoo, Chairman of the IBBI, all of them are members. In a very elaborate way they have explained about voting share threshold for decisions of the COC. I would like to read, Sir, with your kind permission, from this report of March, 2018. They begin by saying, “ Section 21(8) of the Code provides that all decisions of the COC shall be taken by a vote of not less than 75 per cent of the voting share of the financial creditors.” Then they talk about all the representations that they had received. They also say that liquidation is often not passed because consensus is not being built up because of a small minority. That is something which an hon. Member himself had raised. Incidentally, I was reading the proceedings of Rajya Sabha and this has been raised in both Houses. In Hindi there is a saying, “Chit bhi meri, pat bhi meri”. That is what I think is happening today. It was being talked by the other side that because we have kept a very high threshold of 75 per cent, many possible resolutions, as hon. Kirit-ji said, are not going through which may lead to liquidation. In liquidation the value will be much less. So, bankers stand to lose much more. I will reply about why these banks are losing money and the so-called haircut which has not been understood by several Members, when I respond to the debate, but I thought this merits closure at this stage. Then they have looked at the US example and said, “The Committee also noted that globally bankruptcy laws prescribe different voting thresholds for decisions of the COC. In USA, approval of a plan requires 66 per cent or more voting. In UK, the approval of a plan under administration requires a simple majority.” Then, what are their recommendations? I would like quote para 11.6 which says, “After due deliberation and factoring in the experience of past restructuring laws in India and international best practices, the Committee agreed that to further the stated object of the Code that is to promote resolution (The object is not to close all companies and make all people jobless.), the voting share for approval of resolution plan and other critical decisions may be reduced from 75 per cent to 66 per cent or more of the voting share of the financial creditors. In addition to approval of the resolution plan under Section 30(4) , other critical decisions are extension of the CIRD beyond 180 days, replacement or appointment of RP, passing a resolution for liquidation under Section 33(2) . Further, for approval of the other routine decisions for continuing the corporate debtor as going concern, the voting share threshold may be reduced to 51 per cent of the voting share of financial creditors.” This is as of March. I just saw the date of the company that all of you have been referring to. In respect of Alok Industries, the voting got 70 per cent share from Committee of Creditors on 13th April, 2018. The voting happened after the recommendations of the Insolvency Law Committee. It has nothing to do with that particular case. HON. CHAIRPERSON : You can state that in your reply. SHRI PIYUSH GOYAL : I can, Sir. But I thought since many hon. Members are under the wrong impression, let me clarify ab initio that this voting happened after this Committee report which we have accepted almost in toto. … (Interruptions) Further, there is no resolution which is complete as yet. It is not that the Committee of Creditors said that they are now considering this report or Ordinance. The NCLT itself directed the Committee of Creditors to consider the resolution afresh, possibly because there was only one resolution applicant who had approached the NCLT for resolving or taking over the company. … (Interruptions) The other option was liquidation and consequential loss of over 23,000 jobs directly or indirectly. Possibly the NCLT in their wisdom thought otherwise and asked for a re-vote. I think the hon. Members are casting aspersions on the judiciary which, to my mind, is not a very good sign. *m10 श्रीविनायकभाऊरावराऊत ( रत्नागिरी-सिंधुदुर्ग ):सभापतिमहोदय,मैं इन्सालवेंसीएंडबैंकक्रप्सीकोड, 2016, सेकेंडअमेंडमेंटबिलकासमर्थनकरनेकेलिएखड़ाहूं।जैसाकिमाननीयवित्तमंत्रीश्रीपीयूषगोयलजीनेअपनेप्रस्तावनामेंबतायाथाकिअनुभवकेआधारपरकईनएसंशोधनकरनेकीजरूरतपड़तीहै।मैंगोयलसाहबसेपूरीतरहसेसहमतहूंकिशासनकरतेवक्तकईऐसे 100 वर्ष  पुरानेकानूनहैं,खासकरकेजोफाइनेंशियलइंस्टिट्यूट्सहैं,उनमेंऐसेनएसंशोधनलाकरलोगोंकोयाआमजनताकोफायदाहोसकताहैयानीजोईमानदारीसेटैक्सपेकरतेहैं।उनकेपैसेऔरटैक्सकासंरक्षणकैसेकरसकतेहैं?इसकेबारेमेंअच्छीतरहसेसंशोधनकरकेजोनया कानून लाना पड़ता है, उसकामैंसमर्थनकरताहूं।जैसाकिसमाचार-पत्रमेंएकखबरआयी हैकिइसकानूनकोकैबिनेटसेमंजूरीमिलनेकेबादतकरीबन 83 हजार करोड़रुपयेकीवसूलीऑटोमेटिकलीहोचुकीहै।यहइसविधेयककीएकबड़ीसफलताहै।मैंकहनाचाहताहूंकिभविष्यमेंइसविधेयककेमाध्यमसेआमआदमीकेपैसेकासंरक्षणकैसेकरसकतेहैं,इसकीतरफआपअच्छीतरहसेध्यानदें। सभापतिमहोदय,देशकेकईलोगोंकोकईतरहकेलोनलेनेपड़तेहैं,लेकिनखासकरदोवर्गकेलोगकर्जलेनेवालेहैं।एकआमआदमीहै,जोईमानदारीसेकर्जलेताहै,ईमानदारीसेबिजनेसचलाताहै,ईमानदारीसेव्यवसायकरताहैऔरईमानदारीसेचाहेनेशनलबैंकहो,स्टेटबैंकहो,डिस्ट्रिक्टबैंकहोयाकॉपरेटिवक्रेडिटसोसाएटीहोउनकेपाससेजोलोनलेताहैऔररीपेमेंट सही वक्त परकरनेकीव्यवस्थाकरताहै।लेकिनदूसरावर्गऐसाहैजोकरोड़ोंरुपयेकाकर्जलेताहै, उनकाउद्देश्ययहहोताहैकिअपनेबिजनेसकेलिएएकबैंकसेकर्ज, स्टेटबैंकसेलेऔरअपनाबिजनेसलिक्विडेशनमेंडालेंऔरपैसेकीलूटकरेंऔरलोगोंकोफंसाए।ऐसेवर्गकेऊपरपाबंदीलगानेकाकामइसविधेयककेमाध्यमसेजरूरहोगा, ऐसीमेरीआशाहै।मैंइच्छाव्यक्तकरताहूंकिअगरयहकानूनबीसवर्ष पहलेआतातोमुंबईकीटेक्सटाइलइंडस्ट्री, जिसमेंकमसेकमदोलाखवर्कर्सकामकरतेथे।वेसारेफानेंशियलइंस्टीट्यूट्सकागैर-कानूनीउपयोगकरकेबर्बादहोचुकीहैं।इसकेकारणलाखोंकीसंख्यामेंकामकरनेवालेगिरनीकामगारऔरउनकेपरिवारधवस्तहोचुकेहैं।ऐसेआदमीऔरभीहैं, जैसेहमारेरत्नागिरी में भारतीयशिपयार्ड, मुम्बईकेखम्बाटाएविएशनजहांहजारोंलोगकामकरतेथे, उन्होंनेकईफाइनेंशियलइंस्टिट्यूटसेकर्जलिया।उसकासहीउपयोगअपनाबिजनेसडेवलपकरनेकेलिएएवंबिजनेसकेऊपरडिपेंडरहनेवालेजोलेबरहैं, उन्हेंप्रोटेक्टकरनेकेलिएहोनाचाहिएथा, जोउन्होंनेनहींकिया।पैसेकादुर्व्यापारकियाऔरलोगोंकोफंसाया।इसकेसाथ-साथअसलियतसेटैक्सपेकरनेवालेहिन्दुस्तानियोंकोभीफंसानेकाकामकिया। सभापति महोदय,इस विधेयक में मैं देखता हूं कि आम आदमी के लिए क्या किया गया है? आप बड़े-बड़े उद्योगपतियों पर पाबन्दी लगाएंगे,उनके पास से पैसा वसूल करने की व्यवस्था करेंगे। आज एनपीए सबसे बड़ी समस्या हो चुकी है। एनपीए चाहे नेशनल बैंक का हो, स्टेट बैंक का हो  डिस्ट्रीक्टबैंक का हो या कोआपरेटिव क्रेडिट सोसाइटी का हो, जो भी वर्ग एनपीए में जाते हैं, उनके पास से पैसा वसूल करना बहुत मुश्किल काम होता है। कोआपरेटिव क्रेडिट सोसाइटी,जनता के नजदीक की फाइनेंशियल इंस्टीट्यूशन होती है यानी जिस इंस्टीट्यूशन का उपयोग लोगों के हर दिन के काम के लिए होता है,उनके पास कई सामान्य आदमी जाते हैं और अपनी हर रोज की आवश्यकता के लिए धन की व्यवस्था करते हैं। कोआपरेटिव क्रेडिट सोसाइटी में ज्यादा संख्या में जो एनपीए होते हैं, उनकी रिकवरी करने के लिए आज कानून है, लेकिन उसका इस्तेमाल सही तरीके से नहीं होता है। इस विधेयक में आम आदमी को क्या मिला है?आम आदमी को यही मिला है कि जो हाउसिंग सिस्टम है, उसे इस  विधेयक के माध्यम से संरक्षण देने का बहुत बड़ा काम हो चुका है। सभापति महोदय, भारत देश का सबसे बड़ा शहर है- मुंबई। चाहे मुंबई हो,पूना हो, दिल्ली हो या कोलकाता हो, ऐसे बड़े शहरों में आज हजारों की संख्या में बड़ी इमारतों का निर्माण होने का काम होता है। बड़े-बड़े एडवर्टाइजमेंट्स दिए जाते हैं। चाहे दशहरा हो या दिवाली हो,बड़े-बड़े एडवर्टाइजमेंट्स आते हैं और कई तरीके से उनमें लोगों को भूल-भूलैया करने का काम किया जाता है। एक लाख रुपये में एक करोड़ रुपये का फ्लैट बुक करने जैसे नए-नए लालच दिए जाते है, जिनमें लोग फंस जाते हैं। लोगों को अच्छा घर लेने की जरूरत होती है और अच्छा घर लेने के लिए वे कई तरीके से कर्ज लेकर बुकिंग कराते हैं। बुकिंग कराने के बाद अनुभव ऐसा होता है कि पांच-पांच, दस-दस वर्ष  बीत जाने पर भी उन्हें फ्लैट नहीं मिलता है,घर नहीं मिलता है। ऐसे फंसे हुए लोगों को घर प्राप्त करके देने का एक महत्वपूर्ण काम इस विधेयक के माध्यम से होने वाला है,यह सबसे बड़ी सच्चाई है। मैं जानता हूं कि यह एक नया सिस्टम है। मैं मंत्री महोदय से जानना चाहता हूं कि आप एक नया सिस्टम रोल करने जा रहे हैं। जब आप नया सिस्टम रोल करेंगे तो इसका सही तरीके से आम जनता को लाभ मिले, इसके लिए इसमें कई नए लोगों की जरूरत भी पड़ेगी। अगर इनकम टैक्स की रिटर्न फाइल करनी हो तो सीए लोग होते हैं, कोर्ट में जाना हो तो वहां एडवोकेट रहते हैं, उसी तरह इस सिस्टम में काम करने के लिए या एनसीएलटी के पास जाने के लिए,एक नई कैटेगरी का निर्माण करने की जरूरत है, जैसे इनसॉल्वेंसी एंड रिज्योल्यूशन प्रोफेशनल्स। इसके बारे में मैं कहना चाहता हूं कि इस सिस्टम में, इस कैटेगरी में काम करने के लिए जिन लोगों की जरूरत है, आप उनको तैयार कैसे करेंगे?आपने अभी बताया है कि आज के वक्त इस कैटेगरी में काम करने के लिए करीब 23 हजार नए लोग तैयार होने वाले हैं। इस सिस्टम में काम करने के लिए ज्यादा से ज्यादा संख्या में लोगों को लगाने की जरूरत है, ताकि आम जनता को इसका फायदा मिल सके। एक नया कानून लाने की कोशिश इस सरकार के माध्यम से हो रही है, उसका सही फायदा लोगों को हो और आम जनता का पैसा न डूबे,लोगों को फाइनेंशियल इंस्टीट्यूशन्स पर भरोसा रहे,यह मैं आशा करता हूं, उम्मीद करता हूं। मैं फिर एक बार विधेयक का समर्थन करते हुए, अपनी बात समाप्त करता हूं। धन्यवाद। श्रीराजीवप्रतापरूडी ( सारण ):सभापति जी, माननीय सदस्य ने बहुत अच्छा भाषण दिया है,वे फिर हम लोगों के साथ पूरे मन से आ गए हैं। *m11 

SHRI JAYADEV GALLA ( GUNTUR ): Thank you Chairman, Sir.  Sir, the main thrust of the Bill is to provide relief to homebuyers as the amendment proposes to give them the status of financial creditors which helps them to represent in the Committee of Creditors and also make them an integral part of the decision-making process.  If you look at the recommendations of the Committee, it says and I quote: 17 00 hrs 

          So I think the clarification from the Minister is good but the Ordinance route definitely raises the eyebrows and definitely raises a lot of voices in the Parliament. As per the changes proposed in the Bill, there is only one point protecting the honest businessmen, i.e., regarding MSME.  The promoter can buy it back if the bids are too low.  I think that will really help in protecting the honest businessman who has gone bankrupt not because of his fault but because of various market circumstances or because of customers who refused to pay money or the suppliers who after taking advance do not pay him or because of the changes in the Government policy. Another important point is regarding the definition of wilful defaulter.  If he is a wilful defaulter, he cannot bid for his own company.  But the definition of wilful defaulter is given by the RBI.  In one of the definitions, it says,  ‘anyone who diverts the funds away from the company’.  If he has given a cheque from this company to another company for siphoning off the money, yes, he can be caught.  But more often than not, the mechanism of diversion is through over-invoicing purchases and then taking money back from the supplier or under-invoicing.  You sell your own property or goods to a colluding buyer and then take it at a much lower price.  So, over- invoicing and under-invoicing are mechanisms for siphoning off.  There is no mention of this in the Bill.  These cannot be proven easily.  They can be proved by the CBI.  They cannot be proved by audits or by the bankers. Sir, I will take the case of ABG Shipyard.  It has more than Rs.18000 crore claim from creditors like ICICI and CBI.  The offer that they got was for Rs. 5600 crore from a buyer but that will be paid after ten years or so.  The other offers from Reliance and others were not even worth considering.  But if it is liquidated, it is only Rs.2200 crore which they would get out of Rs.18000 crore.  But to make matters worse, this company has got the Navy orders to build ships.  Now if they cancel this, it will set the Navy back by ten years.  In such cases, how do you resolve?  I think we need to focus more on resolution and mechanisms of resolution.  In fact, the very term ‘resolving insolvency’ itself in literal terms is a contradictory term.  Insolvent means, it cannot be solved but you are trying to resolve it.  It needs great expertise or it needs support of the existing promoter to resolve the company. Why is there difference in recovery rates versus in other countries?  I think the same law treats dishonest, wilful defaulting bankruptcies as well as honest together.  That is why, I think we have all these issues between the Opposition and the Minister which he is trying to clarify.  How do other countries deal with it?  Why are the recovery rates so high in other countries?  It is because they have separate laws. Like I said, not all defaulters are fraudsters.  Many eminent people are defaulters starting with Abraham Lincoln who applied for bankruptcy twice; Thomas Jefferson – once; Ulysses S. Grant, the American civil war hero who went on to become the President applied for this; the Ford Motor Company went bankrupt; and even World Disney went bankrupt. So, we need laws to protect the honest defaulters and this Bill does not fully address it. *m13 

SHRI P. KARUNAKARAN ( KASARGOD ):  Sir, I would like to participate in the discussion on the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Second Amendment) Bill, 2018. Sir, before I go to the Bill, I appreciate the Government as they have taken a decision to withdraw the FRDI Bill.  I appreciate the Government because it has taken a decision to withdraw the FRDI Bill.  At the time of its introduction in the House, the Government said that it is a landmark Bill for solving the financial issues. Now, the FRDI has become a dark-mark Bill as far as this legislation is concerned. Sir, we discussed this Bill – the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code – in 2016. I remember, I myself had participated in that discussion. Many hon. Members of this House, especially from the Opposition, had pointed out the basic reason as to why why the NPA is increasing and banks are unable to take action. We agreed that the 2016 Bill with limited purpose was useful, especially to take action against wilful defaulters and persons who have been mismanaging the institutions and flying away from the country. I would like to know what the urgency of this Ordinance is as has been questioned by other hon. Members of the House. Government has a right to bring an Ordinance. This may be for social need, or economic need or for administrative need. Can the Government cite any reason for bringing this Ordinance? The hon. Minister intervened in the discussion and said that there was a 14-member Committee which suggested for promulgation of an Ordinance. I agree that there was a 14-member Committee. Irrespective of whether it was a 14-member Committee or a four-thousand-member Committee, the issue is, what is the purpose? What is the objective of promulgation of this Ordinance? It was not for reasons of any social demand, or an economic demand or an administrative demand. But this was promulgated for reason for one person. That is why I am strongly opposing the promulgation of the Ordinance. The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 2018 was promulgated on June 6, 2018. It amends the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016. The Code provides for a time-bound process for resolving insolvency in companies and among individuals. Insolvency is a situation where individuals or companies are unable to repay their outstanding debts. The Code defines a financial creditor as a person to whom financial debt is owed. Such debt includes any amount raised, that has the commercial effect of borrowing. Financial creditors are a part of the Committee of Creditors which is responsible for taking key decisions related to the resolution. The Ordinance clarifies that an allottee under a real estate project will be considered a financial creditor. An allottee includes any person to whom a plot, apartment or building has been allotted, sold or transferred by a promoter. I do agree that there are a few beneficiaries that is with regard to the MSME or the home buyers.  But the main focus of this amendment Bill is that the Code specifies that all decision of the Committee of the Creditors be taken by a majority of at least 75 per cent of the financial creditors. The Ordinance now lowers the threshold to 51 per cent and for some decisions, the voting threshold has been reduced to 66 per cent. That includes appointment and replacement of the resolution professional and approval of certain actions of the resolution professional during the insolvency resolution process. Sir, here the Government has to clarify for whom this amendment has been made. What is the reason for reducing the voting share from 75 per cent to 51 per cent and in some cases from 75 per cent to 66 per cent? Sir, as has been stated by other hon. Members it is very clear that Alok Industries has got a benefit of Rs. 25,000 crore out of this and ESSAR steel company has got a benefit of Rs. 21,000 crore. So, it is not for social, economic or administrative purpose for which this Ordinance was promulgated. But it is very clear that it was meant to benefit one company, namely M/s Alok Industries. It is true that it has been reduced from 75 per cent. As we have discussed earlier during the debate on the Bill, 2016, why have you reduced it?  It is said in those days that Shri Jaitley has assured that you are going to take stern action.  Many suggestions have been given.  Now you are diluting the basic principle that you have taken in those days.  That is why this 75 per cent has been reduced to 66 per cent.   It is done only to assist some companies. ] 

Now it is very clear that it is not for the general purpose or the social purpose but only to assist someone. The cat is out of the bag which shows that this industry is related to Reliance.  So, I strongly oppose the amendment which is to promote one person and not brought for the welfare and stability of the banking system or institutions. We have very serious experiences of mismanaging the institutions looting public money.  All these were done under the protection of loopholes of some legislation.  Even though there were strong legislations, we could not take any action. For example, consider the issue of Vijay Mallya.  He has taken loans from various banks with securities.  He has to pay at least Rs. 900 crores to various banks and he left the country safely. As regards Punjab National Bank, Nirav Modi has taken Rs. 13,000 crore and left the country.  Now PNB is in a stage of collapse.  The Government has to become the guardian and guarantor of public banks but the changes that have come in the lending policy especially in the real estate sector and related projects have collapsed many of the banks.  This House has agreed to give Rs. 1000 crore to public banks to sort out their cash drain problem.  During the debate of the Insolvency Code, 2016, we had discussed these issues in detail.  Now the Government has again shown green signal for such wilful defaulters and persons who are mismanaging the institutions.  The purpose of the amendment is not clear there from the intervening of the hon. Minister. So, I strongly oppose this Bill and also the untimely Ordinance that the Government has issued. *m14 

SHRIMATI BUTTA RENUKA ( KURNOOL ): Sir, I am extremely privileged to speak on this Bill as a continuation of my earlier speech when the Bill was introduced in 2016. We have been watching how this piece of legislation has come handy for the creditors in realising their dues in a speedy and systematic manner. It is not only realising the loans given by banks and other financial institutions, but it is more significant that it will put the industries on track under new managements improving productivity.  Recycling activity in economy will get stimulus leading to employment creation and growth in economy. Probably with a view to further strengthening the insolvency and bankruptcy mechanism and after watching the situation for about two years, the Government is bringing this legislation so as to fine tune the Code.  I welcome the amendments to the Code which are meant to further improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the resolution process. After we opened up our economy and started soliciting investments from abroad, such investors have been making their investments based on not only the return on investments but also the statutory and legal framework for the protection and safety of their investments. Insolvency and bankruptcy laws of our country have been the major bone of contention for many investors mainly because of the multiple number of laws and the time taken for the resolution of disputes.  This makes recovery of debt a cumbersome process. 17 14 hrs                      (Hon. Deputy-Speaker in the Chair) 

          The earlier Bill, to a large extent, has met these expectations.  However, certain irritants have been noticed and this Amendment Bill ensures plugging of loopholes. These amendments primarily aim at securing all real estate buyers. This will provide a lot of relief to home buyers who are generally middle-class salaried people. They will become on par with other creditors. This requires further clarification as there is some confusion with regard to their status. Reduction of voting threshold is another step aimed at quick dispersal. The passage of this Bill will enable quick and prompt action to be taken in the early stages of debt default by a firm, maximising the recovery amount. The creditors will not become victims of red-tape and promoters will directly become accountable for any financial lapses. Bankruptcy laws accept that business ventures can fail and allow entrepreneurs to get a fresh start. We all know that our banks are saddled with huge amounts of NPAs thereby choking the financial system. The time has come to overhaul the laws prevalent in our country, especially the laws concerning the financial sector. Amendments to the principal Act are welcome initiatives for creditors, investors and debtors alike. The streamlining of procedures, simplification of the insolvency process and fast-tracking of recovery are hallmarks of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, which will have a positive effect on India’s lending climate. Sir, even while supporting the amendments, I would like to express my concern and reservation on one aspect and that is the appeal process provided in the Bill subject to correction, if any. As per the provisions of the Bill, the National Company Law Tribunal and the Debt Recovery Tribunal are the adjudicating authorities. Their decisions could be challenged in Appellate Tribunals. These Appellate Tribunals are located in the National Capital or, at the most, in Metropolitan Cities and the further appeal can be done only in the Supreme Court of India. This will increase the cost of appeal process and put burden on the people. If the appeal process could be restructured to allow the appeals from the National Company Law Tribunal and the Debt Recovery Tribunal or even from the Appellate Tribunals to the High Courts and finally to the Supreme Court, it will be of great convenience and financial relief to all the parties involved. With these words, I conclude. *m15 श्रीसुभाषचन्द्रबहेड़िया ( भीलवाड़ा ) : उपाध्यक्षमहोदय,आपनेआईबीसीकेदूसरेअमेंडमेंटपरमुझेबोलनेकामौकादिया,इसकेलिएमैंआपकाआभारीहूं। उपाध्यक्षमहोदय,मैंइसकेपक्षमेंखड़ाहुआहूं।आईबीसीवर्ष 2016 मेंलागूहुआ।इसकेलागूहोनेकेबादकाफीसकारात्मकपरिणामदेखनेकोमिले।सबसेबड़ापरिणामयहथाकिछोटे-छोटेसप्लायर्सजोबड़ीकम्पनियोंकोमालसप्लायीकरतेथे,उनकोपेमेंटनहींहोताथा।ड्यूडेटपरपेमेंटनकरनेकेबादभीउनकेपासकोईचारा नहींहोताथा,लेकिनआईबीसीकेलागूहोनेकेबादयहपरिवर्तनआयाहैकियदिवहड्यूडेटतकपेमेंटनहींदेताहैतोवहइंसोल्वेंसीकेप्रोसेसकेतहतएप्लीकेशनलगासकताहै।इससेसभीछोटेसप्लायर्सकोयहफायदाहुआकिउनकोसमयपरपेमेंटमिलनेलगी।जोकम्पनियांजान-बूझकरउनकापेमेंटरोकतीथीं,वेसमयपरपेमेंटदेनेलगीं।इससेछोटेसप्लायर्सकीजोवित्तीयस्थितिखराबहोतीथी,वहठीकहोनेलगी। यह बिलवर्ष 2016 मेंपासहुआथा।इसमेंएकअमेंडमेंटवर्ष 2018 मेंआयाथा।वहअमेंडमेंटइसलिएजरूरीथाक्योंकिइंसोल्वेंसीप्लानमेंकुछएप्लीकेंटऐसेआगएथेजिनकाकम्पनीकीवित्तीयस्थितिबिगाड़नेमेंभीहाथथा।ऐसेएप्लीकेंट्सकोरोकनेकेलिएपहलासंशोधनवर्ष 2018 मेंलायागयाऔरउसमेंसेक्शन 29(a)जोड़ागया।उसमेंसर्टनपर्सन्सकोडिसक्वालिफाईकियाकिवेरेज़ोल्यूशनप्लानकेआवेदकनहींहोसकतेहैं।उसकेबादयहदूसरासंशोधनलायागयाहै।इसमेंसबसेमहत्वपूर्णअमेंडमेंटयहहैकिलोगबचतकरकेअपनेलिएघर  बुककरातेथे। मकानबुककरानेकेबादजोरियलएस्टेटकीकंपनीहै,वहसमयपरमकाननहींदेतीथीऔरअगरवहइंसॉलवेन्सीप्रोसेसमेंचलीगयीतोमकानबुककरानेवालोंकापैसाडूबनेकीस्थितिमेंआगया।अबइसअमेंडमेंटकेजरिएउसकोफाइनेन्शियलक्रेडिटरकीपरिभाषामेंलियागयाहै।फाइनेन्शियलक्रेडिटरअर्थातजिन्होंनेभीमकानबुककरायाहै,सारेलोगमिलकर,जोभीरिजोल्यूशनप्लॉनहोगाउसमेंपार्टिसिपेटकरसकेंगे,क्योंकिउनकावोटिंगराइटफाइनेन्शियलक्रेडिटरवक्रेडिटर 

  

  

ऑफकमेटीमेंहोताहै,इसलिएवेअपनापक्षरखसकेंगे।इसअध्यादेशसेपहलेजोअपनापक्षनहींरखसकतेथे,अबवेअपनापक्षरखसकतेहैं। इसकेसाथ-साथमेराएकऔरआग्रहहैकिजिन्होंनेअपनीजिन्दगीभरकीकमाईबचाकरमकानलेनेकेलिएउसेबुककरायाहै,अगरउनकोप्रॉयोरिटीक्रेडिटरमेंलेलें,तोउन्हेंबहुतबड़ीसुविधामिलेगी।यहमंत्रीजीसेमेरीरिकवेस्टहै। एकअमेंडमेंटयहभीहैकिपहलेजोकॉर्पोरेटइंसॉलवेन्सीकेलिएइनिशिएटकरनाचाहतेथेयाएप्लीकेशनलगानाचाहतेथे,वेअपनेआपबोर्डमेंरिजोल्यूशनपासकरकेएप्लीकेशनलगादेतेथे।परंतुइसअमेंडमेंटकेबाद,बोर्डकारिजोल्यूशनहीनहींबल्कि 75 प्रतिशतशेयरहोल्डर्सकीसहमतिकेबादहीकार्पोरेटअपनीएप्लीकेशनलगासकताहै।पहलेजोडायरेक्टरबोर्डमेंहोतेथेवेअपनेइंट्रेस्टकेहिसाबसेकामकरतेथे,लेकिनअबइसकोरोकागयाहैऔरशेयरहोल्डरोंकोयहपावरदीगयीहैकिरिजोल्यूशनकेलिएएप्लीकेशनदीजाएयानदीजाए,ऐसाकरकेबहुतबड़ापरिवर्तनलायागयाहै।एम.एस.एम.ई.सैक्टरकोभीइसमेंछूटदीगईहैक्योंकिजबसैक्शन 29(ए) मेंरिजोल्यूशनप्रोसेसकोअप्लाईकरनेकेलिए,डिसक्वॉलिफिकेशनदिएगएऔरउसएप्लीकेशनमेंइनकोबाहरनिकालागया।अगरकोईछोटीकंपनीकिसीकारणसेबैंककोपैसानहींदेसकीयाउसकीलॉयबिलिटीएन.पी.ए.होगईतोकेवलएम.एस.एम.ई.कीजोकंपनीहैं,यानीमाईक्रोस्मॉलएवंमीडियमइंटरप्राइजेसजितनेभीहैं,उनकोअबइसकेकारणडिसक्वालिफाईनहींकियाजाएगा।यहबहुतबड़ापरिवर्तनइसअमेंडमेंटमेंलायागयाहै।पहलेजोमेनआई.बी.सीथा,उसमेंयहप्रोविजननहींथाकिअगरकिसीनेएप्लीकेशनलगाईहैऔरउसपरप्रोसेसभीचालूहोगयाहैतथारिजोल्यूशनप्लॉनभीआगया,तबक्रेडिटरऑफकमेटीमिलकरएप्लिकेशनकोविड्राकरनाचाहें,तोयहप्रोविजनभीइसमेंअभीडालागयाहै। 90 प्रतिशतकमेटीकेक्रेडिटर्सजोवोटिंगशेयररखतेहैं,वेअगरएग्रीहोजातेहैंतोउसएप्लीकेशनकोवेविड्राकरसकेंगे।महोदय,चूंकिआपनेघंटीबजादीहैऔरमैंबहुतअनुशासितमेंबरहूं,इसलिएमैंअपनीबातकोसमाप्तकरताहूं। *m16 श्रीप्रेमसिंहचन्दूमाजरा ( आनंदपुरसाहिब ) : उपाध्यक्षमहोदय,मैं इंसॉल्वेंसीएंडबैंक्रप्सीकोड (सेकंड अमेंडमेंट)बिल, 2018 के लिएहोरहीचर्चामेंशामिलहोनेकेलिएखड़ाहुआहूं।जहांतकबिलकासवालहै,तोमैंसमझताहूंकियहबिलजिसतरहस्टैंडिंगकमेटीतथाबैंकिंगकमेटीमेंहोकरआयाहै।वहांइसपरविचार-विमर्शहोनेकेबादफैसलेहुएहैं।इसलिएअबइसबिलकेसंबंधमेंकोईविरोधनहींहोनाचाहिए।इसकीइंप्लीमेंटेशनमेंअगरकोईशंकाहैतोउसकेलिएसवालखड़ेकिएजासकतेहैं।जैसाकिहमसबजानतेहैंकिआजकोईकैसीभीनुक्ताचीनीकरे,सचतोयहहैकिदेशकीबैंकिंगप्रणालीपरसेविश्वासउठगयाथा।जबमाननीयप्रधानमंत्रीजीनेइसहाउसमेंकहाथाकि 52 लाख करोड़रुपएकेएन.पी.ए.सहीमायनेमेंहैं,तोइसपरसबचिल्लानेलगे। 15 लाख करोड़रुपएकेएन.पी.ए.हमारेकागजोंमेंहैं। यहबहुतआश्चर्यजनकबातथी।अबइसपैसेकोकैसेलायाजाए।मैंसमझताहूंकियहसहीबातहै,हमारेबुजुर्गकहतेहैंकिजबसबकुछजातादेखिएतोआधादियेबांट।यहभीकहाजाताहै - भागते चोरकीलंगोटीहीसही।जोमिलताहै,वहतोलेलें।देशमेंक्याहोरहाथा - लोग बैंकोंमेंघोटालाकरकेभागरहेथे,कोईबाहरजारहाथा,कोईअपनीफर्मकानामबदलरहाथा।हमारीआंखोंकेसामनेयहखेलपिछलेकईवर्षोंसेहोरहाहै।हमइससरकारकोबधाईदेनाचाहतेहैंकिकमसेकमथोड़ाबहुततोलाए,नहींतोकुछभीनहींमिलरहाथा। जहांतकइसबिलकासवालहै,मैंइसबिलकेपक्षमेंहूं।…( व्यवधान)जितनामिलताहै,उतनातोलेलें,मगरबिलकेबिनाभीकुछसवालखड़ेहोरहेहैं।मैंमाननीयमंत्रीजीसेयहजरूरजाननाचाहूंगा।मैंमंत्रीजीसेपहलासवालयहपूछनाचाहताहूंकिजिन्होंनेइतनेफ्रॉडऔरस्कैंडलकिएयाजिन्होंनेकरवाये,उनकाक्याहुआ,उनकेबारेमेंआपनेक्यासोचा? दूसरासवालयहहैकिऐसीस्थितिआगेपैदानहो,हमारीबैंकिंगप्रणालीमेंलोगोंकाविश्वासहो,हमारीअर्थव्यवस्थासहीरास्तेपरचले,उसकेलिएपरमानेन्टमैकेनिज्मक्यातैयारकियाहै? तीसरासवालयहहैकिआपनेइंडस्ट्रीऔरकारपोरेटसैक्टरमेंजितनामिला,उतनालानेकीबातकीहै।हमचाहतेहैंकिकिसानोंकेलिएआपकुछकरें,क्योंकिकृषिआजबहुतघाटेमेंजारहीहै,किसानखुदकुशीकररहेहैं।किसानोंकेलिएकोईवनटाइमसैटलमैंटप्रोग्रामयालोकअदालतोंकेद्वाराउनकेमामलोंकानिपटाराहो,जिससेकिसानकर्जमुक्तहोजाएं।जैसेआपइनसोलवेन्सीएंडबैंक्रप्सीकोडअमैंडमैंटबिललेकरआएहैं,इसीतर्जपरक्यासरकारकिसानोंकोकर्जमुक्तकरनेकेलिए,उनकेसारेमामलोंकानिपटाराकरनेकेलिएकोईऐसामैकेनिज्मलारहीहैयाऐसीकोईव्यवस्थाबनारहीहै?आजदेशमेंकिसानखुदकुशीकररहेहैंऔरउनकीआर्थिकस्थितिबहुतखराबहै,यहआपसबजानतेहैं।हमारेपंजाबमेंइतनाविश्वासदिलायागयाकिबैंकोंकाकर्जा,आढ़तियोंआदिसबकाकर्जामाफहोजाएगा,लेकिनवहनहींहुआतोकिसानखुदकुशीकेरास्तेपरजारहेहैं।हमारेकोऑपरेटिवसैक्टरकेइदारेबंदहोरहेहैं,उन्हेंडिफाल्टरडिक्लेयरकरदियागयाहै।ऐसीस्थितिमें,मैंभारतसरकारसेजाननाचाहताहूंकिइनसबकेलिएभीआपइसीतर्जपरकोईबिललाएंतोबहुतअच्छाहोगा।धन्यवाद। *m17 श्रीजय प्रकाशनारायणयादव ( बाँका ):उपाध्यक्षमहोदय,आपनेमुझेदिवालाऔरसंशोधनअक्षमतासंहिता (दूसरा संशोधन)विधेयक, 2018 पर बोलनेकीअनुमतिदीहै,मैंइसकेलिएआपकोबहुत-बहुतधन्यवाददेताहूं।सदनमेंदिवालासंशोधनबिलपेशकियागयाहै,यहसदनमेंक्योंपेशकियागयाहैऔरकिसकेलिएपेशकियागयाहै?क्यायहप्रो-पुअरहै,गरीबोंकेलिएहै,दलितोंकेलिएहै,शोषितोंकेलिएहै,उपेक्षितोंकेलिएहै,मध्यमवर्गकेलिएहै,किसानकेलिएहै,बेबसऔरलाचारकेलिएहैयादरवाजा,फाटककहींबंदकियाजारहाहैऔरदूसरोंकेलिएखोलाजारहाहै।इसपरहमेंसोचनेकेलिएबाध्यहोनापड़ताहै।मैंमानताहूंकियहप्रो-पुअरनहींहै।यहबड़ेउद्योगपतियोंकेलिएगतिशीलहै।इसकादरवाजाउधरखुलरहाहै।खासव्यक्तियोंकेलिएखुलरहाहै।पूंजीपतिऔरउद्योगपतिइनदोनोंनेहमारेदेशकोखोखलाकियाहै।जैसेनोंच-नोंचकरखातेहैं,ऐसेनोंच-नोंचकरखायाहै।जैसेबकरीघाससेदोस्तीनहींकरतीहै…( व्यवधान)आपशांतरहिए,यदिआपएकसौभीउठेंगेतोहमअकेलेआपलोगोंकेलिएकाफीहैं। …( व्यवधान)आपबैठजाइए। एकबेटा,माननीयलालूजीहैं,जिन्होंनेकहाकिहमअन्यायनहींकरेंगे,लेकिनकोईभीअगरगरीबों,पिछड़ोंऔरदलितोंपरअन्यायकरेगातोलालूयादवमरनापसंदकरेगा,लेकिनअन्यायनहींकरेगा। …(व्यवधान)इसलिएशांतिसेसुनिए। …(व्यवधान)सत्तामेंहैंतोविपक्षकावारसहनेकेलिएकलेजाचौड़ाकरकेरहिए,वर्नाहमबैठनेवालेलोगनहींहैं। …(व्यवधान)बैंकोंऔरकिसानोंकोखोखलाकियागयाहै। …(व्यवधान)चंदबड़ेउद्योगपतियोंनेखोखलाकियाहै। …(व्यवधान)हमऋणसेगरीबोंकोमुक्तकरनाचाहतेहैं,किसानोंकोमुक्तकरनाचाहतेहैं।किसानोंकेगलेमेंगमछालगाहोताहै।उन्हेंदिनदहाड़ेकहाजाताहैकितुमऋणलिएहोतोजेलचलो।लेकिनबड़ेउद्योगपतियोंकोमाफीमिलजातीहै।नीरवमोदीचलाजाताहै,विजयमाल्याचलाजाताहै,मेहुलचोकसीचलाजाताहै,ललितमोदीचलाजाताहै। …(व्यवधान)गंगाकीसफाईनहींहोतीहै,लेकिनदिन-दहाड़ेबैंककोसाफकरकेनीरवमोदीचलाजाताहै। …(व्यवधान)मुझेदोमिनटबोलनेकामौकादीजिए। …(व्यवधान)अबजमीनोंकीबैंकिंगहोरहीहै। …(व्यवधान)नयाजमींदारपैदाहोरहाहै।गदरेकेभावसेजमीनोंकोझारखण्डमेंखरीदाजारहाहै।हमारेबैंककादिवालाहोगयाहै।नोटबंदीमेंउद्योगपतियोंकोमाफकियाऔरगरीबोंकोसाफकियाहै।जीएसटीनेखुदराव्यापारीकासर्वनाशकियाहै।कहतेथेकिस्विज़बैंककाकालाधनलाएंगेऔरअबकहतेहैंकिवहांउजलाधनहै। …(व्यवधान) कहतेहैंकिस्विज़बैंककास्विचऑनकरतेहैंतोऑनहीहोतानहींहै,ऑफहोगया। …(व्यवधान)सन् 2019 में देशकीजनताआपकाभीस्विचऑफकरदेगी। …(व्यवधान)मैंएकमिनटमेंअपनीबातसमाप्तकरताहॅूं। …(व्यवधान) पांचसौउद्योगपतिदेशसेबाहरचलेगए।आजटाटाहो,स्टीलहो,टीलहो,चिपकनेकाहोयाजोभीहो।हमप्रमसेयहीकहनाचाहेंगेकिएसोसिएशनबनायाजाए।जोकार्यहै,रियलएस्टेटमेंमकानबनेहैं,बिल्डर्सभागगएहैं,उनकोएसोसिएशनबनाकरमकानदियाजाएऔरजोबिल्डर्सहैं,उनपरकठोरसेकठोरदण्डात्मककार्यवाहीकीजाए।देशसबकाहै,चमन-ओ-बगीचासबकाहै।इसलिएसबकोन्यायमिलनाचाहिएऔरप्रो-पुअरकामहोनाचाहिए। *m18 श्रीकौशलेन्द्रकुमार ( नालंदा ):उपाध्यक्षमहोदय,आपनेमुझेदिवालाऔरशोधन,अक्षमतासंहिता (दूसरा संशोधन)विधेयक, 2018 पर बोलनेकामौकादियाहै,इसकेलिएबहुत-बहुतधन्यवाद।उपाध्यक्षमहोदय, 06 जून, 2018 के अध्यादेशकेअनुरूपयहप्रस्तावआयाहैऔरइसकेअंतर्गतधारा 5 के खण्ड 8, धारा 10औरधारा 14 को संशोधितकरकानूनकोसुगमऔरस्पष्टबनाएजानेकाप्रावधानकियाजारहाहै।एकनईधारा 12 (क) कोजोड़ाजारहाहै।इससेकोईभीआवेदनवापसलेनेकीअनुमतिदीजाएगी।जहांतककुछसदस्योंकीआशंकाहै,चाहेमोइलीसाहबहोंयाप्रेमचन्द्रनजीहों,बहुतलोगोंनेआशंकाजाहिरकीहै ‍कि इसबिलसेकुछलोगोंकोफायदामिलेगा।कुछलोगोंकेलिएयहबिललायाजारहाहै।अभीजयप्रकाशजीभीबोलरहेथे।येलोगचाहतेहैं,जबकांग्रेसपार्टीकीसरकारदिल्लीमेंथी,तोहमकोयादहैकिपिछलीबारकईतरहकेघोटालेरोज़सामनेआतेरहतेथे,लेकिनकोईकानूननहींबनायाजाताथा।जबकोईसंशोधनकानूनलायाजारहाहैकिगरीबोंकापैसावापसआजाए,तोयहतोअच्छाकदमहै।गरीबोंकापैसावापसकैसेआएगा,बड़े-बड़ेउद्योगपति,बड़े-बड़ेबिल्डर्समकानलेनेकेनामपरपैसालेतेथेऔरवेपांच-दससालमकानबनाकरलोगोंकोनहींदेतेथे।उसकेलिएयहबिललायाजारहाहै,नकिअभीहमारेसाथीजयप्रकाशजी जैसाबतारहेथे।हमलोगउसबिलकासमर्थनकरनेकेलिएयहांबैठेहैं।कांग्रेसपार्टीकीसरकारमेंहमनेदेखाहैकिलगातारकईतरहकेघोटालेकिएगए,लेकिनकोईबिललाकरउसकोसुधारनेकाप्रयासनहींकियागया।मैंइसबिलकासमर्थनकरताहॅूं।मेराएकछोटासासुझावहोगाकिईमानदारकर्जदेनदारोंको,अगरमौकामांगाजारहाहैतोउसपरभीविचारकरनेकाप्रावधानहोनाचाहिए,साथहीबैंकोंनेभीकईधांधलियांकीहैं,इसकेलिएबैंकोंकोभीदण्डितकियाजानाचाहिए। *m19 श्रीजगदम्बिकापाल ( डुमरियागंज ) : महोदय,मैंआपकाबहुतआभारीहूँकिआपनेमुझेएकबहुतमहत्वपूर्णबिलदिवालाऔरशोधनअक्षमतासंहिता (दूसरा संशोधन) विधेयक, 2018, जिसे माननीयमंत्रीजीलेकरआएहैं, परबोलनेकामौकादिया।मैंबहुतदेरसेसबकोसुनरहाथा।मैंउनबातोंकीपुनरावृत्तिनहींकरनाचाहूँगा, उनबातोंकोदोहरानानहींचाहूँगा।हमसभीलोगअवगतहैंकिइसदेशमेंदिवालाऔरशोधनअक्षमतासंहिताआनेकेपहलेक्यास्थितिथी? कितनेलॉजथे, कंपनीएक्टथा, सरफेसीएक्टथा, सीकाथा, बहुतकंफ्यूजनथा, कान्ट्रडिक्शंसथेकिअगरकोईकंपनीइन्सॉल्वेंसीमेंचलीगईतोउसमेंबहुतज्यादासमयलगताथा।जबकिइंग्लैंडमेंएकसालमेंइन्सॉल्वेंसीकाकोईरिजोल्यूशनप्लानबनजाताथा, यू.एस. में 1.5 साल मेंबनजाताथाऔरयहाँतककिपाकिस्तानमेंभीइसमेंतीनसाललगतेथे। मैंतोसरकारकोबधाईदूँगाकिइन्सॉल्वेंसीएंडबैंकक्रप्सीकोडलाकर, इसदेशमेंवर्षोंसेएनपीएकाजोबोझहमारीसरकारकोविरासतमेंमिला, आजउसएनपीएकोयाउसबैंकिंगसिस्टमकोसुधारनेकीदिशामेंएकबहुतबड़ाकारगरकदमहुआहै।मैंकहनाचाहताहूँ, मैंअपनीबातनहींकहरहाहूँ, मैंवर्ष 2018केइकोनॉमिकसर्वेकीबातकरनाचाहताहूँ।The Economic Survey 2018 has said that the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code is helping to improve the health of the banking sector.  It says that the IBC mechanism is being used actively to resolve the NPA problem of the banking sector. पूरेदेशकेलोग, चाहेसत्तापक्षमेंहोंयाप्रतिपक्षमेंहों, हमहमेशाबैंककेबढ़तेहुएनॉनपर्फार्मिंगऐसेट्स (एनपीए) कीबातकरतेथे।अगरआजइसनॉनपर्फार्मिंगऐसेट्स (एनपीए) कोहलकरनेकीदिशामेंहमनेएककदमबढ़ायाहैतोमुझेलगताहैकिआजजोयहसेकेंडअमेंडमेंटआयाहै, यहबहुतक्लियरहैऔरclarity of thought है।The amendments to the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code are intended to provide relief to home buyers by recognising their status as a financial creditors, thus, giving them due representation in the Committee of Creditors(CoC) and making them an integral part of the decision making process.जिसकीचिंतासबकररहेहैं, उसकोहमनेइसअमेंडमेंटसेडिसिजनमेकिंगप्रोसेसबनायाहै।उनकोहमनेफाइनेन्शियलक्रेडिटर्सकेरूपमेंदियाहै। इसकोडकेआनेसेपहलेक्यास्थितिथी? गवर्नमेंटकेड्यूज, बैंककेड्यूज, लेबर्सकेड्यूजऔरअनसिक्योर्डक्रेडिटर्सकातोपैसामिलताहीनहींथा।आजकमसेकमयहअमेंडमेंटआयाहै, निश्चिततौरसेआजजबहमइसेपासकरेंगेतोइसकाअसरकेवलइसपार्लियामेंटकेअंदरतकनहींहोगा।चाहेएनसीआरहो, नोएडाहो, गाजियाबादहो, लखनऊहो, पटना, कानपुर, मुंबई, अहदाबाद, सूरतआदिदेशकेतमामशहरोंमेंजिनलोगोंनेअपनीगाढ़ीकमाईकेपैसेलगाकर, लोनलेकरमकानखरीदा, फ्लैटबुककियाथा, उनकोमकाननहींमिला, फ्लैटनहींमिला, लेकिनउनकेवेतनसेबैंककीई.एम.आई. कटरहीहै।उनकेऊपरलगातारब्याजकीदेनदारीबढ़रहीहै, लेकिनमकानफिरभीनहींमिलाहै, उनकापैसाभीवापसनहींहुआहै।आजकादिनउनकेलिएऐतिहासिकदिनहोगा, जबहिन्दुस्तानकेउनगरीबोंको, उनमध्यमवर्गकेलोगोंको, उनहोमबायर्सकोएकलीगलस्टेट्सहमइसअमेंडमेंटसेदेरहेहैं।यहकोईसाधारणअमेंडमेंटनहींहै, बल्कियहबड़ामहत्वपूर्णअमेंडमेंटहै।इसकीभीआलोचनाकीजारहीहै।प्रेमचन्द्रनजीकहरहेहैंकिहमवर्ष 2016सेदोअमेंडमेंटलेकरआएहैं।हमदोनोंअमेंडमेंटजनहितमेंलाएहैं।आपएकतरफइन्डोर्सभीकररहेहैंकिहमठीकअमेंडमेंटलेकरआएहैंऔरदूसरीतरफकन्ट्राडिक्शनकररहेहैं।आपनेकहाभीहैकिचाहेहोमबायर्सकेलिएहो, उनकीरक्षाहोगी, चाहेएम.एस.एम.ई. हो, यहउसकेहितमेंहोगा।The promoters of MSME can bid for their own unit. जोमीडियमएंडस्मॉलइंडस्ट्रीजकीबातकररहेहैं,वहहोसकताहै।जोदोसालकाप्रॉजिक्यूशनहोचुकाहै,वेबिडर्सनहींबनसकते,वेबिडिंगमेंपार्टिसिपेटनहींकरसकते,जोपहलेप्रोमोटर्सथे,वेनहींकरसकतेथे,उनकोप्रॉफिटकियाहै।जोभीहमनेकदमउठाएहैं,वेहमनेइसीइंटरेस्टमेंउठाएहैं।आजदुनियामेंआपदेखिए।उन्होंनेकहाकियहकिसीकोफायदापहुँचानेकेलिएकियाजारहाहै।अगरसी.ओ.सी.में 90 परसेंटलोगतैयारहोंगेकिहमउसरिजोल्यूशनकोवापसकरनेकीअनुमतिदेरहेहैंतोवहनिश्चिततौरसेकोईकबाड़केभावजाए,उसकेबजाएअगरवापसहोकरकेउसकीकीमतमिलजाएऔरलोगोंकेहक-हुकूककीहिफाजतहोसकेतोमुझेलगताहैकिउनकोअपनाअमेंडमेंटवापसलेलेनाचाहिए।उन्हेंइसबातकोसमझनाचाहिएकिआजयहबिलकितनाजनहितमेंलायागयाहै। उपाध्यक्षमहोदय,मैंसमझताहूंकिमैंनेअपनीबातकोकेवलउनअमेंडमेंट्सतकहीसीमितरखाहै। “The voting threshold for routine decisions taken by the Committee of Creditors has been reduced from 75 per cent to 51 per cent.” आजपीयूषगोयलजीने,हमारेवित्तमंत्रीजीनेजिसबातकाउल्लेखकियाहै,आजअगरयूरोपमें,यू.एस.में,सभीजगहोंपररूटीनवर्ककेलिए 51 प्रतिशतकीवोटिंगपरसी.ओ.सी.कोईनिर्णयलेसकताहैतोहमारेयहां 75 प्रतिशतपरक्योंनहींलेसकताहै?यहस्वाभाविकहैकिफिरहमकोईफाइनैंशिएलरीस्ट्रक्चरिंगकरनाचाहें,लिक्वीडेशनमेंजानाचाहेंतोइसमेंजोस्टेकहोल्डर्सहैं,जोक्रेडिटर्सहैं,उन्हेंकितनेवर्षोंतकयहसबकरनापड़ेगा?आजजबएकतरफहमउन्हेंलीगलआईडैंटिटीदेरहेहैंतोइसबिलकेमाध्यमसेउन्हेंसिक्योरिटीदेनेकाकामभीहै। “For certain key decisions, this threshold has been reduced to 66 per cent.” मुझेलगताहैकियहएकप्रगतिशीलकदमहै।इससंशोधनकातोसर्वसम्मतिसेस्वागतकरनाचाहिए। इसकेबावजूद,इससदनमेंहमचाहेसत्तापक्षसेहों,चाहेप्रतिपक्षसेहों,लगातारइनमुद्दोंकोहमउठातेरहेहैं। आपदेखिएकिजोवाटरफॉलमैकेनिज्मथा,वहपहलेक्याथा?वहपहलेथा - The Insolvency resolution process cost and the liquidation cost paid in full.इसकामतलबकिजोप्रोसेसहोगा,पहलेउनकीतनख्वाहदीजाएगी,उन्हेंपैसेदिएजाएंगे।फिरउसकेबादथा - “(i) Workmen’s dues for the period of twenty-four months preceding the liquidation commencement date; and (ii) Debts owed to a secured creditor in the event such secured creditor has relinquished security in the manner set out in Section 52 . (c) Wages and any unpaid dues owed to employees other than workmen for the period of 12 months preceding the liquidation commencement date. (d) Financial debts owed to unsecured creditors.” 

  

इसकामतलबसबसेअन्तमें,जोअपनेजीवनमेंअपनेमेहनतकीगाढ़ीकमाईकेपैसेसे,चाहेवेहोमबायर्सहोंयाजोलोगहों,आजमैंसमझताहूंकिजबयहसदनइसअमेंडमेंटबिलकोपासकरेगातोनिश्चिततौरपरदेशकेउनलाखोंलोगोंको,चाहेवेनोएडा,ग्रेटरनोएडायादिल्लीमेंप्रदर्शनकररहेथेऔरजिन्हेंलगताथाकिउनकेसामनेअंधकारहैतोयहबिलकेवलपासनहींहोगा,बल्किउनकीजिन्दगीमेंइसकेमाध्यमसेएकउजालाआएगा,एकनयासबेराआएगा। इसीकेसाथमैंइसबिलकासमर्थनकरताहूं। *m20 श्रीदुष्यंतचौटाला ( हिसार ):उपाध्यक्षमहोदय,मैंआपकोधन्यवाददेताहूंकिआपनेमुझेइंसॉल्वेंसीएण्डबैंकरप्टसीकोड (सेकन्डअमेंडमेंट)बिल, 2018 पर बोलनेकामौकादिया। महोदय,मैंसरकारकेइसकदमकास्वागतकरताहूंकिइसेएकएक्टकेतौरपरसरकारलेकरआईहै।पर,मैंमाननीयमंत्रीजीसेपूछनाचाहूंगाकिइसकीक्याजरूरतपड़ीथीकिइसकेलिएएकऑर्डिनैंसलानापड़ा?जबइसबिलकोइससदननेपासकियाथा,तबसरकारनेएकउम्मीदबंधाईथीकिइससेकहीं-न-कहींव्यवसायकोफायदामिलेगाऔरइसकोडकेमाध्यमसेउसकाबेनिफिटमिलेगा।माननीयमंत्रीजीकहतेहैंकिइसबिलकेमाध्यमसे,जोफाइनैंशिएलक्रेडिटर्सहैं,वेएन.सी.एल.टी.मेंजाकरअपीलकरसकतेहैं।माननीयमंत्रीजीकाहीराज्यसभाकेअन्दरएकजवाबहै,जिसमेंइन्होंनेलिखाहुआहैकि 9,073 केसेज एन.सी.एल.टी.केअन्दरदिनांक 31.01.2018 को पेंडिंगहैं।जिसमें 1,630 केसेज मर्जरकेहैं, 2,511 इंसॉल्वेंसीकेहैंऔर 4,932 केसेज कम्पनीजएक्टकेहैं।जबआपरियलएस्टेटकोभीइसबिलकेमाध्यमसेएन.सी.एल.टी.केअंदरडालनेकाकामकरेंगेतोक्याआपइससदनकोबतासकतेहैंकिऔरकितनेहजारकेसेजकोहमएन.सी.एल.टी.केअंडरडालेंगे?जबहमएन.सी.एल.टी.कीबातकरतेहैंतोहमारेएन.सी.एल.टी.मेंमात्र 22 मेम्बर्सहैंऔरउसकेमात्रदसस्पेशलकोर्ट्सहैं।जबहमदसस्पेशलकोर्ट्सकीबातकरतेहैंऔरहजारोंकीसंख्यामेंऔरज्यादानएफाइनैंशिएलक्रेडिटर्सअपनीअपीलकोट्रिब्यूनलमेंलेकरजाएंगेतोआपयहमानकरचलिएकिआजकोर्टसेतोशायदयहआसराथाकिदोसालोंमेंयातीनसालोंमेंइंसाफमिलजाएगा।अभीजगदम्बिकाजीबड़ीअच्छीतरहसेबोलरहेथेकिआपनेउसेआसदिखादीजोआदमीआजई.एम.आई.सेबैंकरप्टहोताहै।जबयेमामलेएन.सी.एल.टी.मेंचलेजाएंगेतोपांच-पांच,सात-सातसालोंतकआपउसप्रॉपर्टीकेमालिककोउसकाहकदिलानेमेंकामयाबनहींहोसकेंगे।आपउन्हेंविश्वासदिलाएंकिआपइनकीऔरपीठबनानेकाकामकरेंगे।आपदससेलेकरऔर 100 कोर्ट्सबनाएंगेऔरअभी 22 मेम्बर्ससेबढ़ाकरआप 222 मेम्बर्सबनानेकाकामकरेंगे,नहींतोआपकेइसबिलकेपारितहोनेकेबादआपयहमानकरचलेंकिइससेआपफाइनैंशिएलक्रेडिटर्सकोजोफायदापहुंचानाचाहरहेहैं,वहउसेनहींमिलेगा,परउसउद्योगकेमालिकको,उसकम्पनीकेमालिककोइसकाफायदाआपजरूरपहुंचानेकाकामकरेंगे। महोदय,मेरीएकक्लैरिफिकेशनथीकिआपनेइसबिलकेमाध्यमसेफाइनैंशिएलक्रेडिटर्सकीडेफिनिशनकेअन्दर,एकप्रॉपर्टीकामालिक,जोआजई.एम.आई.भरताहै,उसेडालनेकाकामकियाहै।अगरमैंएकघरलेनाचाहताहूंतोक्याआपमुझेअधिकारदिलाएंगेऔरक्याआपमुझे ‘क्रेडिटर्स’मेंडालेंगे? अगरमेरीप्रॉपर्टीकंप्लीटनहींहुई, तोक्यामुझेउसकाअधिकारमिलेगा? यदिमैंअपनापैसारिफंडचाहताहूं, तोक्यामुझेउसकाअधिकारमिलेगा? मैंआपसेआग्रहकरूंगाकिअगरआपफाइनेंशियलक्रेडिटर्सकेअंदरलोगोंकोडालनाचाहतेहैं, तोआपउन्हींलोगोंकोडालिए, जोलोगअपनापैसालेनाचाहतेहैं, नकिउनलोगोंकोजोअपनाघरलेनाचाहतेहैं।आजलोगोंनेनोएडा, गुड़गांवमेंएक-एकदशकपहलेसेअपनापैसादेरखाहै, लेकिनआजतकवहांबिल्डिंगकीशुरुआतनहींहुईहै।अगरआपनेउनकोफाइनेंशियलक्रेडिटर्समेंडालदिया, तोउनकाब्याजभीगयाऔरउनकीआयजानेकाभीकामहोगा। उपाध्यक्षमहोदय, आजआपद्वारकाएक्सप्रेस-वेकेसाथवालेएरियेमेंदेखिए।गुड़गांवमेंहजारों-लाखोंकीतादादमेंफ्लैट्सबनरहेहैं।अधिकतमकंपनीज़ऐसीहैं, जिन्होंनेआमजनताकापैसाज़रूरलेनेकाकामकिया, लेकिनअबतकउन्हेंपोज़ेशनतोबहुतदूरकीबातहै, वहांफ्लैट्सबनानेकाकामनहींकिया।मैंमंत्रीजीकाधन्यवादकरूंगा, जिन्होंने 75परसेंटसी.ओ.सी. कोकमकरके 66परसेंटकियाहै।आजइसकीज़रूरतथी।अगरहमयहकदमउठारहेथे, तोहम 66परसेंटपरआकरक्योंरुके? आपउसको 51परसेंटपरलेआते।उसकंपनीकेजोछोटेशेयरहोल्डर्सहैं, उनकाअधिकारभीतो 51परसेंटपरहोनाचाहिए।कहींनकहींआपकेइसफैसलेसेवहछोटाशेयरहोल्डरइसमुहीमकेअंदरदबेगा।इसलिएमेराआपसेयहीआग्रहऔरअपीलहैकिसरकारनेजरूरकदमउठायाहै, कुछजल्दबाजीकेअंदरकुछचुनिंदालोगोंकोफायदापहुँचानेकेलिएकामहुआहै।मैंखासतौरपरटर्मकरूँगाकिउनलोगोंकोफायदापहुँचानेकेलिए, जोआजरियलइस्टेटमेंलोगोंकेपैसेहड़पकरबैठेहैंऔरबिल्डिंगनहींबनापाएहैं।…(व्यवधान) इसतरफयाउसतरफकीबातनहींहै।मेरेसाथीकहरहेहैंकिउसतरफबोलिए। …(व्यवधान) आजहरियाणातथाउत्तरप्रदेशमेंभारतीयजनतापार्टीकीसरकारहै।फ्लैटोंकेमामलेमेंअगरसबसेज्यादापैसेलूटेगयेहैंतो… *  शासित राज्यमेंलूटेगयेहैं।अगरआपलोगअधिकारदिलानाचाहतेहैंतोआपइससदनमेंविश्वासदिलाइएकिगुडगांववनोएडाकेलोगोंकोउनकेफ्लैटकापैसादिलानेकाकामकरेंगे। *m21 श्रीराजेशरंजन ( मधेपुरा ): माननीयउपाध्यक्षमहोदय, कानूनबार-बारबने, यहअच्छीबातहै।जबभीकोईअच्छायाखराबकानूनबनताहै, तोउसमेंकुछ-न-कुछनयीव्यवस्थालायीजातीहै।लेकिनकानूनकोचलानेवालेलोगकितनेअच्छेहोंगे, आपइसपरकभीविचारकरतेहीनहींहैं। नोटबंदीकेसमयजोहालातपैदाहुए, बैंकोंकेकर्मचारीकरोड़पतिहोगए।आपनेउसकीचर्चानहींकी।मैंआजराजनीतिकीबातेंछोड़करयहकहनाचाहताहूँकिबड़ी-बड़ीकम्पनियाँघाटादिखाकरकमरुपयेमेंअपनासामानबेचदेतीहैं, उनकेबारेमेंआपनेकुछनहींकहाहै। बड़े-बड़ेउद्योगोंऔरपूँजीपतियोंकेलिएतोसारेरास्तेखुलजातेहैं, लेकिनलघुऔरकुटीरइंडस्ट्रीजकेलिएलियेगयेऋणकेकारणजोहालातपैदाहोतेहैं, उनकेकारणवेदिवालियाहोजातेहैंऔरऋणकभीनहींलौटापातेहैं।आपनेऐसीस्मॉलऔरकुटीरइंडस्ट्रीजकेलिएकुछनहींकहाहै। सबसेज्यादाकालाधनबैंकोंकेसिस्टमसेजेनरेटहोताहै।इसमेंरीयलइस्टेट, शराबमाफिया, बालूमाफिया, खननमाफियाआदिभीशामिलहैं। बिहारमेंएकबड़ीराजनीतिकपार्टीयाएकबड़ापरिवारहैयाकईराजनीतिकलोगहैं, जोबड़ी-बड़ीकम्पनियोंमेंशेयर-धारकबनचुकेहैं।जिनलोगोंकेपासकुछभीपैसेनहींथे, आजवेअरबपतिऔरखरबपतिहैं।वेकईकम्पनियोंकेशेयर-धारकहोचुकेहैं।उनलोगोंसेपैसेकोकैसेवापसलायाजाए, उनकेपैसेकहाँजारहेहैं, बैंक्सउनकोपैसेकैसेदेदेतीहैं, आदिबातोंपरआपध्याननहींदेतेहैं। कमपैसेदेकरअधिकपैसेबैंकोंसेलियेजातेहैं।बैंकोंमेंबीसलाखरुपयेजमाकरकेबीसकरोड़रुपयेकेऋणलेलियेजातेहैं।बड़े-बड़ेउद्योगपति, पूँजीपति, पॉलिटिशियन, माफियालोगएकतरहकीचोरीकरतेहैंऔरइसमेंबैंकउनकोसपोर्टकरतेहैं।यहकैसेसंभवहै? आमलोगोंसेबैंकप्रणालीचलतीहै।मैंछात्रोंकेबारेमेंकहनाचाहूँगा।जोछात्रबैंकसेऋणलेताहै, उसेनौकरीमिलतीनहींहैऔरआपउससेऋणवसूलनेकेलिएतैयारहोजातेहैं। क्याआपस्टूडेंटऋणकीवसूलीउसकेरोजगारयाउसकीनौकरीकेप्रावधानसेकरेंगे?जोयुवाहिंदुस्तानमेंबेरोजगारहै,जिसकोबीए,एमएकरकेनौकरीनहींमिलतीहै,बैंकउनकोऋणदेतीहै। 20 या 30 लाखरुपयेप्रावधानकरनेकेबादयुवाओंकेरोजगारकीगारंटीकेसाथजोउनकीइनकमहोगी,उसइनकमकेसाथवहबैंककोलौटायें।क्याअन्यदेशोंकीतरहहमइसकीव्यवस्थाकरेंगे? चौथा,जोगांवमेंसूदखोरहैं,इनकेचलतेकिसानोंकीआत्महत्याहोतीहै।साइकलोनआताहै,बाढ़आतीहै,तूफानआताहै,छोटेव्यापारीप्रकृतिकेकारणयावैश्विक बाजारमेंजबघाटाहोताहै,उसकेकारणमरजातेहैं।उनकीस्थितिबहतबुरीहोजातीहै।उद्योगपति,पूंजीपतिसभीजगहसेसंरक्षितहोजातेहैं।जोहिंदुस्तानकाछोटाव्यापारीहै,भौगोलिकऔरसामाजिककारणोंसे,राजनैतिकउथल-पुथलकेकारणयाकईवैश्विकबाजारोंकेकारणजोहालातपैदाहोतेहैं,उसकेलिएआपनेकोईप्रावधाननहींदिया। किसानोंकेलिएआपनेकोईदरवाजानहींखोला।जोदुनियाकीसबसेबड़ीरीढ़है,उसपरआपनेकोईचर्चानहींकीहै।बैंकोंकीवजहसेकिसानआत्महत्याकेलिएमजबूरहैं।छात्रोंपरभीआपनेकुछनहींकहा।आपबार-बारइसबातकोकहतेहैं। पाकिस्तानमेंप्रधानमंत्रीकोसजाहोजातीहै,वहजेलचलाजाताहै।हिंदुस्तानमेंक्याकभीबड़ेउद्योगपति,पूंजीपति,नेतायामाफियाओंकोकिसीबैंककेऋणमेंजेलजातेदेखाहै,कितनेलोगोंकोसजाहुई?कानूनकाइंप्लीमेंटबहुतहीमहत्वपूर्णहै।रियलएस्टेटपरबहुतबड़ाशिकंजाकसनेकीआवश्यकताहै। बैंकप्रणाली 120 करोड़ मिडलक्लाससेचलतीहै। 120 करोड़ काजोमिडलक्लासहै,वहयुवाहै,छात्रहै,किसानहै।बैंकऋणकीवसूलीकोआपथोड़ाएकरास्तादीजिए।किसानोंकोऋणकीसुविधाहो।छात्रोंकोऋणकेलिएचक्करकाटनेपड़तेहैं।युवाओंकोऋणनहींमिलताहै।उन्हेंबीटेक,एमटेककरनेकेबादनौकरीनहींमिलतीहै।उनकीसम्पत्तिपरबैंककब्जाकरलेताहै।मेराआग्रहहैकिआमलोगोंकेलिएअध्यादेशलानाहीएकबड़ेराजकोदर्शाताहै।अध्यादेशजैसीचीजको 130 करोड़ लोगोंसेजुड़ाहोनाचाहिए।पूंजीपतिऔरउद्योपतिजैसेलोगोंकोबेनेफिटदेनेकेलिएअध्यादेशकोमशीनरीनहींबनायाजासकताहै।अध्यादेशकोमशीनबनाइए,हिंदुस्तानकेएससी,एसटी,दलितकेलिए,जिसेगोयलबेंचनेखत्मकरदिया,उसकोअध्यादेशबनाइए।यहमेराआग्रहहै। मेराइतनाआग्रहहैकिउद्योगपतियों,पूंजीपतियोंकेलिएकानूननबने।कानूनउनकाराहगीरनबनजाए।सूदखोरोंकेलिएकानूननबने।कानूनआमआदमीकेलिएहो।मैंऐसाचाहताहूं,धन्यवाद। *m22 श्रीशरदत्रिपाठी ( संतकबीरनगर ):उपाध्यक्षमहोदय,आपनेमुझेइसमहत्वपूर्णबिलपरबोलनेकाअवसरप्रदानकिया,इसकेलिएमैंआपकोधन्यवाददेताहूं।आदरणीयनरेन्द्रभाईमोदीजीकेनेतृत्वमेंएनडीएकीसरकारबनी।यहबिललानेकीआवश्यकताक्योंपड़ी,यहभीएकबहुतबड़ाप्रश्नहै।क्योंऐसेकड़ेप्रावधानकीआवश्यकतापड़ी,जबकिइसकेपहलेसरफेसी,बीआईएफआर,डीआरटीजैसेतमामऐसेतकनीकीसंस्थानथे,जिनकेमाध्यमसेऋणमाफीकेलिएलोगआवेदनकरतेथे।उसमेंउलझाकरबैंकलोनबढ़ताचलाजाताथाऔरएनपीएबढ़ताजाताथा।हमारीसरकारकोलगभग 9 लाख करोड़रुपयेएनपीएविरासतमेंमिला। 8 लाख 25हजारकरोड़रुपयेसे 9 लाख करोड़रुपयेतकएनपीएविरासतमेंमिला।जबसमीक्षाहुई,तोसमीक्षाकेदौरानयहमिलाकिवर्ष 2008 सेलेकरवर्ष 2014 तकऐसीकंपनियोंकोऋणदियागया,जिनकंपनियोंकाधरातलपरकोईविशेषअस्तित्वनहींथा।येकंपनियांकेवलइसलिएखोलीगईंथींकिउसमेंकुछबिचौलिएउनकंपनियोंकोऋणदिलानेकेकारणकुछबीचकीधनराशिलेतेथे।यहपहलेसेतयहोताथा।मैंछत्तीसगढ़काउदाहरणदेनाचाहूंगा।छत्तीसगढ़मेंएकसाथपॉवरप्रोजेक्टकेलगभग 14 ऐसे संयंत्रलगाएगए,जिनकोचलानेकेलिएजोउनकीलिक्विडिटीथी,जिसकोपैसालगाकरवेचलाते,वहपैसाऔरवेकौनसेलोगथे,इसकोसारादेशजानताहै। मैंउनकानामनहींलेनाचाहतानहींतोउसपरभीएकआपत्तिखड़ीहोगी।सारादेशजानताहैकिउनकंपनियोंकोवास्तवमेंचलानेऔरकामकरनेकेलिएबहुतबड़ीधनराशिनिकालीथी,जिसेकंपनीचलातेवक्तआवश्यकताथी।उसधनराशिमेंसेकुछलेकरउनकोलोनदिलाए।उसकेबादजबकंपनीचलानेकीबातआई,आजयेकंपनियांफिरसेऋणकेलिएदौड़रहीहैंकिहमकोकंपनीचलानेकेलिएफिरसेफाइनेंसकीआवश्यकताहै।उनकेसंयंत्रबनकरपड़ेहुएहैं।हमारीप्रदेशसरकारनेइन्फ्रास्ट्रक्चरकेलिएउसमेंअपनापूरायोगदानदिया।यहसबसेबड़ीखुशीकीबातहैकिजबइसबिलकीआहटहुई,आदरणीयनरेन्द्रभाईमोदीजीकेनेतृत्वमेंयहसरकारचलरहीहैऔरआदरणीयपीयूषगोयलजीवित्तमंत्रीकेरूपमेंइससदनमेंबैठेहुएहैं,पहलेकंपनियोंकेपीछेबैंकदौड़तेथेलेकिनइसबिलकेआहटमात्रसेहीतीनसौकंपनियांबैंकोंकेपीछेदौड़रहीहैंकिहमाराओटीएसकरदीजिए,वनटाइमसैटलमेंटकरदीजिए।हमारेविद्वानवित्तमंत्रीजीयहांबैठेहुएहैं।इन्होंनेइसमेंनयेसीएलटीटी,एनसीएलटीकेजरिएप्रावधानकिएहैं।उसकोएकसाथटाइमबाउंडकियाहै।इसमें 180 दिन काबाउन्डेंशनहै।एनसीएलटीमेंअबतकतीनसौआवेदनआचुकेहैं।जिनकंपनियोंकीतलाशबैंककरतीथीकिइनसेऋणकैसेवसूलाजाए,अबतकतीनसौऐसेआवेदनआगएजिसकानिस्तारणबहुतहीपारदर्शीतरीकेसेहोरहाहै।कुछलोगउद्योगपतियोंऔरउसकीबातकररहेहैं।बहुतहीपारदर्शीतरीकेसेछह-सातकंपनियोंकाएनसीएलटीकोडबिलकेतहत 180 दिनों केअंदरनिपटाराहोनाहै।उसकेतहत इसआधारपरअबतकसातकंपनियोंकानिपटाराहमारीसरकारनेकिया,जिसमेंएककंपनीकोदूसरीकंपनीनेखरीदकरसाबितकरदियाकिहमइसकंपनीकोचलासकतेहैं।अगरवेनहींचलासकतेथे,उसमेंरोजगारपाएहुएलोगथे,उनलोगोंकारोजगारबचानेकाकामहमारीसरकारनेकिया।ऐसीकंपनियांजोहाउसिंगकाबहुतबड़ाकामकररहीथीं,अभीकुछलोगलाभपहुंचानेकीबातकररहेहैं,हमारीसरकारनेईमानदारीसेउसकंपनीकापूराऐसेटटसजब्तकरकेलोनकीभरपाईकीहै।आजमुद्रायोजनाप्रधानमंत्रीजीद्वाराचलाईजारहीहै,उसकोचलानेमेंजोदिक्कतेंआरहीहैं।युवाओंकीबातकीजारहीहै,आजइसदेशकेबैंकोंमेंफिरसेपैसेकीवापसीकीशुभदौड़शुरूहुईहै।आजयुवासमाजकोविश्वकासबसेबड़ायुवाओंकादेशकहाजाताहै।उनमेंस्वयंरोजगारसृजनकीक्षमताआईहै।मैंइसबिलकासमर्थनकरतेहुएमाननीयवित्तमंत्रीजीकोधन्यवाददेताहूं। *m23 

SHRI ADHIR RANJAN CHOWDHURY ( BAHARAMPUR ): Sir, thank you. I rise to oppose the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Bill. In a span of one-and-a-half years the Bill has undergone two Ordinances and two Amendments. The Ordinance-savvy Government has been frequently resorting to Ordinance much to the detriment of Parliamentary democracy in our country. I would simply refer to two issues. Firstly, the first list of 12 large corporate defaulters -- who have been recognised as the ‘dirty dozen’ -- owe banks around Rs. 2.7 trillion. Out of this, only Rs. 1.28 trillions is estimated to be recoverable, which means on an average the country’s banks are taking a haircut of 52 per cent on the first list of over-indebted corporates. If you go in such a pace for haircut, then a day may come when the country will be turned into a bald-headed country in terms of economy. So, you should be very careful of the haircut proposition. Secondly, the Finance Minister’s decision to have a new fast-track debt resolution programme for public sector banks with the help of the Asset Management Company may undermine the IBC process, brought with much fanfare, to resolve NPAs. I am simply referring to the rationale for classifying allottees as financial creditors, which could be questioned. It could be argued that the money raised from allottees under a real-estate project is an advance payment for a future asset (the property allotted to them). It is not an explicit loan given to the developer against receipt of interest or similar consideration for the time, value of money and, therefore, may not qualify as financial debt. 18 00 hrs 

The Minister may elaborate on this issue. During a corporate insolvency resolution process, a Committee consisting of all financial creditors is constituted to take decision regarding the resolution process. This Committee may choose to resolve the debtor company and liquidate the debtor assets to repay loans. While the Ordinance classifies allottees as financial creditors, it does not specify whether they would be treated as secured or unsecured creditors. Therefore, their position in the order of priority is not clear. May I ask a distinct question to the Minister? After the IBCin existence, Is the performance of the IBC administration impressive to the hon. Minister? The country has been infected with the syndrome of suit, boot, loot, scoot; have a life in comfort by managing a passport. … (Interruptions) THE MINISTER OF CHEMICALS AND FERTILIZERS AND MINISTER OF PARLIAMENTARY AFFAIRS (SHRI ANANTHKUMAR): Hon. Deputy Speaker, Sir, I request you to extend the time of the House till the reply and passing of the Bill. SHRI K.C. VENUGOPAL ( ALAPPUZHA ): Yesterday, we cooperated with the Government. We sat till 7.30 p.m. The Minister can reply to the debate, followed by voting, tomorrow. SHRI ANANTHKUMAR : Sir, we will continue till the reply of the Minister and the Bill is passed. I think, the reply would be over short. SHRI PIYUSH GOYAL : I would give a short reply. SHRI ANANTHKUMAR : The Minister has assured that he would make a short soon. HON. DEPUTY SPEAKER: Already the hon. Minister has said that he would give a short reply. SHRI K.C. VENUGOPAL : No, you should fix the time, otherwise, reply would take two hours. SHRI MALLIKARJUN KHARGE ( GULBARGA ): They have got brute majority. That is why always Shri Dubey ji says that sense of the House should be taken. When you don’t have sense, why should you argue? … (Interruptions) HON. DEPUTY SPEAKER: `Sense of the House’ means unanimously we would resolve the issue. … (Interruptions) SHRI ANANTHKUMAR : For 50 years,  they had the brute majority. They should understand that. … (Interruptions) HON. DEPUTY SPEAKER:  We are extending the time of the House till the Minister’s reply and passing of the Bill. Now, the Finance Minister. *m24 

SHRI PIYUSH GOYAL : Hon. Deputy Speaker, Sir, I must thank the 20 hon. Members of Parliament who have very actively participated in this debate. They had expressed very enlightened views; they had brought to the fore various facets of the Bill. This gives all of us confidence in the maturity of democracy and the very high quality of debate that this House is repeatedly accustomed to. कईमाननीयसांसदोंनेविषयउठायाकिइसऑर्डिनेंसकोलानेकीजरूरतक्याथी।जबभीकोईचीजहमारेसमक्षआए,जबभीकोईसुधारकीसंभावनाहो,मैंसमझताहूंकिजोसरकारतुरंतरिस्पांसकरे,वहअच्छीसरकारमानीजातीहै।जनताचाहतीहैकिसरकारतुरंतएक्शनलेकरलोगोंकीसमस्याओंकासमाधानकरे।कईरिप्रेजेंटेशन्सअलग-अलगप्रकारसेआए,सदनमेंभीचर्चाहुईऔरपहलेअमेंडमेंटकेसमयकुछअच्छेसुझावआएथे। एकसुझावमाननीयप्रेमचंद्रनजीकाभीथाकि 75 प्रतिशतबहुतज्यादाहै,इसेकमकरनाचाहिए,जिससेरेजल्यूशनहो,लिक्विडेशननहो।इनसबकोदेखतेहुए 14 सदस्योंकीएककमेटीबनाईगई।इन्सॉल्वेंसीलॉकमेटीने 26 मार्च, 2018 को बहुतहीअच्छेऔरसार्थकसुझावसरकारकोदिए। माननीयउपाध्यक्षजी,मैंसबसेपहलेमोइलीजीकोथोड़ासाकरैक्टकरनाचाहूंगा।इसकमेटीनेनौप्रमुखमुद्दोंपरअपनेसुझावदिएऔरहमनेनौकेनौप्रमुखमुद्दोंकोपूर्णरूपसेस्वीकारकिया। इसकेअलावाउन्होंनेएनेक्श्चर -तीनमेंकईसारेप्रोपोज्डअमेंडमेंट्सदिए, जोपेजनब्बेसेशुरूहोतेहैं। Amendments to the Regulations, Amendments to the Law, तेरह-चौदहपन्नेकेरिकमेन्डेशनदिए।मुझेआपसभीकोउपाध्यक्षमहोदयकेमाध्यमसेसूचितकरतेहुएखुशीहोरहीहै कि सिर्फ दो को छोड़करउनकेसभीप्रोपोज्डअमेंडमेंटकेसुझावकोस्वीकारकिया है। उनमें सेएक सुझाव थाकिचैप्टर-चारजिसमेंफास्टट्रैककॉरपोरेटइन्सोल्वेंसीरिजोल्यूशनप्रोसेससेक्शन 55से 58प्रोवाइडकरताहै, उसकोछोड़दियाजाए।सरकारकीविजडममेंयहमहसूसहुआकिफास्टट्रैकरिजोल्यूशनजहांहोसके, वहांअच्छाहै।इससेनौकरियांबचेंगीऔरलोगोंकोकामकरनेकोमिलेगा।जितनीजल्दीरिजोल्यूशनहोताहै, उतनीअधिकवैल्यूमैक्सिमाइजहोतीहै।इसलिएहमनेइससुझावकोएक्सैप्टनहींकिया।आपसभीसरकारकेनिर्णयसेसहमतहोंगे।   एकदूसरासुझावथाकिसेक्शन 240 (ए)  इन्सर्टकियाजाए, जिसमेंकेन्द्रसरकारअपनेपासअधिकाररखे to exempt or vary applications of provisions of the court by way of a notification for a certain class or classes of companies including for MSMEs. हमनेउसमेंसंशोधनकिया, हमनेइसकोसीमितरूपमेंस्वीकारकिया, सिर्फएमएसएमईकेलिएअपनेपासअधिकाररखा, बाकीकंपनियोंकेलिएअपनेपासअधिकारनहींरखा। So, we tightened our own powers. कमेटीनेबहुतबड़ेपॉवरकेलिएसुझावदियाथाकिहमकिसीभीक्लॉसऑफकंपनीजकोएग्जेम्पटकरसकतेहैं।हमनेकहाकिनहींहमेंयहपॉवरकेन्द्रसरकारकोनहींदेनाचाहिए।  इनदोसंशोधनोंकेअलावाहमनेपूर्णरूपसेइसकमेटीकेसभीसुझावोंकोएक्सैप्टकियाहै।मैंसमझताहूंकिमोइलीसाहबइससेखुशहोंगे।तेजगतिसेइसकालाभरिजाल्यूशनप्रोसेसमेंआए,इसलिएइसकोआर्डिनेंसकेरूपमेंलायागया है। मैंसमझताहूंकिरिजोल्यूशनहो,लिक्विडेशननहो,जिसकीचर्चामाननीयकिरीटसोमैयाजीनेबड़ेविस्तारसेकीहैयहहमारालक्ष्यहै।हमजितनाविलम्बकरतेहै,कंपनियोंद्वारालिक्विडेशनमेंजानेसेजॉबलॉसेज़होनेकीसंभावना उतनी बढ़ सकती है। इसलिएइसकोआर्डिनेंसकेरूपमेंलायागया to promote resolution and the interest of various stakeholders. इसीकेसाथ-साथहोमबायर्सकाविषयभीबड़ाज्वलंतथा।कईकेसेज़एन.सी.एल.टी.मेंचलरहेथे।इनमेंसेकुछकानामक्यायहांभीजिक्रहुआथा।कुछकेससुप्रीमकोर्टतकचलेगयेथे।उसमेंहोमबायर्सकोप्रोटेक्टकरनासरकारकीजिम्मेदारीथीऔरउसकोहमनेनिभायाहै,जिसकेकारणयहआर्डिनेंसलानाजरूरीथा।इसीतरीकेसेएम.एस.एम.ईज़कोप्रोटेक्टकरना था एम.एस.एम.ईमेंबड़ेलोगोंद्वाराज्यादाइन्‍ट्रेस्टनलेनेकेकारणलघुउद्योगबंदनहो जाए,उसकेलिएहमनेसेक्शन 29 (ए) मेंएम.एस.एम.ईकोएक्जेम्पशनदेनेकानिर्णयइसकमेटीकेसुझावकेतहतलिया। दूसरा,जोलोगसिकयूनिट्सकोखरीदतेहैंऔरउसकोचालूरखकरउसकोरिजाल्वकरतेहैं,उनकोभीएक्जेम्पशनदेनाथाक्योंकि 29 (ए) कीस्ट्रिक्टरिडिंगहैकिअगरएकबारव्यक्तिकोईएन.पी.ए.एकाउंटकोलेले,तोवहडिबारहोजाताहै।इसलिएएकक्लैरिफिकेटरीनेचरकाअएमेंडमेंटलानाजरूरीथा,नहींतोबिडर्सबहुतकमहोजाते। माननीयमोइलीजीनेकहाकिज्यादा-से-ज्यादाबैंककालोनरिकवरहो,वैल्यूमैक्सिमाइजहो,वहकरनेमेंहमेंतकलीफ़होतीहै।इनसबचीजोंकोमद्देनजररखतेहुएआर्डिनेंसलानेकीआवश्यकतापड़ी।लेकिन,मैंस्पष्टकरदेनाचाहताहूंकिआर्डिनेंसकेसभीप्रावधानप्रॉस्पेक्टिवहैं,रेट्रोस्पेक्टिवइसमेंकोईभीप्रावधाननहींहै।यहचिंताकाविषयनहींहैकिकिसीकोलाभदेनेकेलिएयाकोईएककंपनीकेलिएयहकियागयाहै।इसकीमैंनेविस्तारसेसूचनाआपसबकोपहलेहीदीथी।इस कमेटी के सुझावमार्चमेंआए और सी.ओ.सी.कीमीटिंगअप्रैलमेंहुई।उसकेबादभीनिर्णयसरकारकायारिजोल्यूशनप्रोफैशनलकानहींथा।उसकोएन.सी.एल.टी.नेआर्डरकियाकिउसकेपुनर्विचारकेलिएसी.ओ.सी.कोदियाजाए। मैंअभी उसकी डिटेल्स पढ़ रहा था। उसमें रिज्योल्यूशन प्रोफेशनल के वकील ने बहुत फोर्सफुली अपोज किया कि इसे सीओसी में वापस जाना चाहिए। लेकिन एनसीएलटी ने अपने विवेक से यह तय किया कि चूंकि एक ही बिडर है,दूसरा पर्याय लिक्विडेशनहै। अगर कंपनी लिक्विडेशन में जाती है तो आज जो पैसा मिल रहा है, उसके आधे से भी कम पैसा मिलेगा, इसलिए वह लिक्विडेशन में न जाए। लगभग 23 हजार से 25 हजार लोग,जो डायरेक्टली या इनडायरेक्टली उस कंपनी में काम करते थे, उनका रोजगार न खराब हो, उनके परिवारों का जीवन न नष्ट हो और उसके इको-सिस्टम में शायद लाखों लोग, जो टेक्सटाइल इंडस्ट्री से जुड़े थे,शायद इस कारण से एनसीएलटी ने यह डिसीजन लिया होगा। मुझे उसकी जानकारी नहीं है। यह कोर्ट का निर्णय है और मैं जूडिशियरी का सम्मान करते हुए, उसके बारे में ज्यादा कुछ नहीं कहना चाहता हूं। महताब जी और जैदेव गल्ला जी ने एक विषय उठाया,उसके बारे में मैं स्पष्ट कर दूं कि हमारा अधिक बल रिज्योल्यूशन पर है, liquidation is the last option. मैं समझता हूं कि जैसा विश्वेश्वर रेड्डी जी ने कहा,वास्तव में हरेक बिजनेसमैन बेईमान नहीं होता है और हरेक व्यक्ति जो बिजनेस में फेल हो, वह बेईमान नहीं होता है। हरेक ने जीवन में अपने बिजनेस की कोशिश की होगी,उससे लाखों लोगों को नौकरियां मिलती हैं। लघु उद्योग,बड़े उद्योग आदि सभी लोग मिलकर करोड़ों लोगों को रोजगार देते हैं, काम देते हैं, उत्पादन करते हैं, देश की जरूरतें पूरी करते हैं और देश के आर्थिक विकास में योगदान देते हैं। हो सकता है कि कोई विलफुल डिफाल्टर हो या कोई फ्रॉड केस हो, लेकिन सभी बिजनेसमेन को उस नजरिए से नहीं देखना चाहिए,अन्यथा देश के विकास,देश के आर्थिक विकास और नौकरियों का साधन बन्द हो जाएगा। मैं समझता हूं कि यह हम में से किसी की भी मंशा नहीं है। इसी प्रकार से,होम बायर्स की डेफिनिशन की बात मोइली साहब ने की। हमने बहुत स्पष्ट रूप से कहा है कि इसकी जो डेफिनिशन रेरा में है, होम बायर्स की वही डेफिनिशन इसमें भी ली जाएगी। रियल इस्टेट कंपनी की डेफिनिशन भी रेरा से ही ली गई है। दुष्यंत जी को जो गलतफहमी है कि होम बायर्स और रियल इस्टेट के सभी केसेज एनसीएलटी में जा रहे हैं,ऐसा नहीं है। होम बायर्स और रियल इस्टेट के केसेज रेरा में जा रहे हैं,जिसके लिए अलग प्रावधान है। अगर कोई कंपनी एनसीएलटी में है,जो बैंक या क्रेडिटर्स को डिफाल्ट कर चुकी है, उसमें होम बायर्स का जो पैसा है,उसको प्रोटेक्ट करने के लिए उनको फाइनेंशियल क्रेडिटर के रूप में लिया गया है। उनके प्रतिनिधि कमेटी ऑफ क्रेडिटर्स में होंगे,वोट करेंगे और इससे उनको सुरक्षित रखा जाएगा। एक सवाल उठा कि यह सिक्योर्ड है या अनसिक्योर्ड है,यह निर्णय केस टू केस हो सकता है। यहां बैठकर हम निर्णय नहीं ले सकते हैं कि they are all secured or unsecured. एनसीएलटीऔर रिज्योल्यूशन प्रोफेशनल इसको केस टू केस बेसिस पर तय कर सकते हैं। एक सवाल यह भी आया था कि वैल्यू को मैक्सिमाइज करेंगे या नहीं करेंगे और मोइली साहब ने ऑक्शन की बात की। मोइली साहब ने बहुत अच्छा विषय उठाया,लेकिन मैं समझता हूं कि इस कानून का मुख्य उद्देश्‍य है वैल्यू एडिशन करना। अगर कंपनी चलानी है तो कंपनी चलाने के बहुत से पहलू होते हैं,जैसे नई टेक्नोलॉजी लानी पड़ सकती है,अगर चार लोग हैं,जिन्होंने बिड किया है और उसमें एक-दो ऐसी कंपनीज हैं,जिनके पास कंपनी को बढ़ाने की क्षमता नहीं है तो उनके बजाय दूसरी कंपनी,जिसमें ऐसी क्षमता और टेक्नोलॉजी है,वह ज्यादा अच्छी होगी। ये सभी निर्णय कमेटी ऑफ क्रेडिटर्स लेती है, सरकार अथवा हम कानून के द्वारा यह निर्णय नहीं ले सकते हैं,क्योंकि इसमें क्वालिटेटिव और क्वांटिटेटिव क्राइटेरिया,दोनों को मद्देनजर रखना पड़ता है। इसलिए इसका कोई फिक्स्ड प्लान नहीं है। जैसे हमने कोयले की खदानों का ऑक्शन किया, उसमें स्पष्ट था कि एक वैल्यू के ऊपर ऑक्शन हो रहा है और जो सबसे अधिक वैल्यू देगा,उसे कोयले की खदान मिल जाएगी। हमने अपने रिश्तेदारों या अपने मित्रों या मेम्बर्स ऑफ पार्लियामेंट को कोई मुफ्त में कोयले की खदानें नहीं बांटी,ईमानदार ऑक्शन की प्रक्रिया की, लेकिन यहां पर रिज्योल्यूशन प्लान है, उसमें चेंज ऑफ टेक्नोलॉजी,प्रोडक्ट पोर्टफोलियो,मैनेजमेंट,गवर्नेंस,एक्वीजिशन या डिस्पोजल ऑफ एसेट्स, मोडिफिकेशन ऑफ कैपिटल स्ट्रक्चर आदि कई पहलू होते हैं। इसलिए इसमें सिम्पल ऑक्शन की प्रक्रिया संभव नहीं है। यहपैराडाइमशिफ्टहैजिसमेंहरेककोऑपरेशनलक्रेडिटर्सऔरफाइनेंशियलक्रेडिटर्ससबकोसम्मिलितकरके,सबकीनीड्स,रिक्वायरमेंट्सकोअसैसकरके,कमेटीऑफक्रेडिटर्सउचितनिर्णयलेगी।इसकेलिएजोक्राइटीरियापहलेसेनिर्धारितहोताहै।अभी-अभीमैंनेकहाहैकिहमइसकाएकरेगुलेशनभीबनादेंगेकिजबएक्सप्रैशनऑफइंटरेस्ट्सइंवाइटकियेजातेहैं,उसकेपहलेहीहमइवैलुएशनमैट्रिक्सभीतयकरकेफाइलमेंरखेंगे।बादमेंकभीऐसानहींहोकिइवैलुएशनमैट्रिक्समेंभीहमारेऊपरकोईगलतआरोपलगसकेंकिइवैलुएशनमैट्रिक्समेंकिसीकोसूटकरनेकेलिएएडजस्टमेंटकियेगयेहैं।वहभीपहलेसेबनकरसीओसीकीफाइलमेंहोगा। इसीप्रकारसेहेयर-कट्सकेबारेमेंबहुतहीगलतफहमीहै।मोइलीसाहबनेतोशायदगलतीसेकहदियाकिहमनेसुनिश्चितकरदियाहैकिहरेकलोनमे66 प्रतिशतहेयरकटहोजाएगा।यहसुनकरमैंबड़ाहैरानहूं।वास्तवमेंयहहेयर-कटक्याहै,यहहमसबकोसमझनाचाहिए। मैंआपकेमाध्यमसेइससदनमेंबड़ेदावेकेसाथकहनाचाहूंगाकियेसभीकेसेजजोआजदेश,उसकीआर्थिक-व्यवस्थाऔरबैंकोंकोबड़ापरेशानकररहेहैं,इसमेंअधिकांशऔरशायद 95-99 प्रतिशततकयेसबकेसेजपुरानेहैंऔरयेवर्ष 2014 केपहलेकेहैं।आखिरवर्ष 2007-2008 से 2014 तक येकैसेहुआकिजोबैंकोंकेलोनहैं,येतीनगुनाबढ़गये? 18 लाख सेबढ़कर 53-54 लाख होगये।येकैसेइतनेबढ़े?इसकेपीछेक्याकारणथा?जोउससमयकेआर्थिक-विकासकीबातहोतीथी,क्यावहसहीमेंआर्थिक-विकासथायासिर्फ ऐसे ही लोनदियेगये? एकमाननीयसदस्यनेकहाकिकईबारऐसेलोगोंकोभीलोनदियागयाजिनकेपासनज़मीनथी,नसहीमायनेमेंउन्होंनेप्रोजेक्टलगानेमेंइसपैसेकोइस्तेमालकिया।जबमैंबिजलीमंत्रीथातोएककेसऐसाआयाकि 4000 करोड़ रुपयेलोनदियेगये,लेकिन 600 करोड़ रुपयेकेऐसैटेसभीनहींथे।अबइनसबकेसेजकी जैसे कि माननीयकिरीटजीनेकहा,स्टडीहोरहीहैऔरजहां-जहांजरूरतपड़रहीहै,फॉरेंसिकऑडिटहोरहाहै।कईजगहएस.एफ.आई.ओ.स्टडीकररहाहै।हमअलग-अलगमाध्यमसेइसकेऊपरपूरीतरहसेजांच-पड़तालकररहेहैं।समझिए,वर्ष 2007 मेंया 2008 में लोन 100 रुपये कादियागया।फिरसमयपरलोनपेनहींहुआतो 20 रुपये औरलोन पुराने लोनकाब्याजभरनेकेलिएदियागया।तो 120 हो गया।फिरदुबारासमयपरपेनहींहुआतोइसेरी-स्ट्रक्चरकरदिया। 120 को 150 करकेरी-स्ट्र्क्चरकरदियाऔरकहाकिलोनअब 150 हो गयाहै।अबआपइसे 20 साल मेंदेना।फिरआगेचलकरदेखाकियहभीनहींहोपारहाहैतोसेकेंडरी-स्ट्रक्चरिंगकरदिया-एस.डी.आर.याअन्य किसी नाम सेरी-स्ट्रक्चरकरदिया।इसतरहसे 150 का 200 करकेउसकोरी-स्ट्रक्चरिंगमेंडालदिया।ऐसेकरते-करतेस्थितिइतनीबिगड़गईकिजोउससमयकेलोनदियेगयेथे,रिजर्वबैंकनेएकअनुमानलगायाकि उसमें अब लगभग 25 प्रतिशतसेज्यादालोनकेखराबहोनेकीसंभावनारखतेहैं। They are either stressed or evergreen loans or NPAs. इससरकारनेआनेकेबादजबयहदेखाकिब्याजकोईनहींदेरहाहैऔरसरकारनेदेखाकिबैंकोंकोकमाईनहींहोरहीहै।सिर्फरी-स्ट्रक्चरिंगऔरएवरग्रीनिंगकरकेफर्जीएकाउंटएंट्रीबनरहीहै,ताकिसो-कॉल्डक्लेमकेलिएकिइतनापैसाबैंकोंकोवापसआनाहै।मैंसमझताहूंकिबैंकोंकीबैलेंसशीटफर्जीरखकरभारतकीसाखपूरीदुनियामेंखराबहोरहीथी।भारतकेबैंकोंकीविश्वसनीयताखत्महोरहीथी।ऐसीपरिस्थितिमेंइससरकारनेसाहसकियाऔरअगस्त 2015 से एकऐसेटक्वॉलिटीरिव्यूकरकेरिजर्वबैंकनेएक-एककेसस्टडीकरकेजहां-जहांपरयेसबचीजेंपाईगईं,उनकोएन.पी.ए.घोषितकराया।एनपीएघोषितकरके,उसकोरिजॉल्वकरनेकेलिएहमआई.पी.सी.काकोडलायेऔरउसकेतहतअबएनसीएलटीमेंजाकरयाअगरकोईसैटिलकरताहैतोसैटिलकरनेदेतेहैं।अभी-अभीमाननीयविनायकरावजीनेठीककहा,इसकानूनकेआनेकेबाद 83000 करोड़ रुपयेतोलोगोंनेअपनेआपआकरभरदिये, before admission of the cases. यहडरभीरहनाचाहिए।बड़ेलोनलेजानेवालेलोगकभीडरतेनहींथे।कभीउनकीइच्छानहींहोतीथीकिहमेंलोनवापसदेनाहै,एकमज़ाकहोताथा।छोटेलोनधारकचिंतितरहतेहैंकि उन्हें लोनवापसदेनाहै।पहलेकेजमानेमेंबड़े-बड़ेउद्योगपति,बड़े-बड़ेपूंजीपतिनिश्चितजीवनजीतेथे,क्योंकिउन्हेंचिंताहीनहींथीकिकभीलोनवापसदेनापड़ेगा।उनकोऐसालगताथा कि अबयहबैंककीरिस्पाँसिबिलिटीहैऔरबैंककोयहकिसीतरहरिकवरकरनापड़ेगा और, लोनवापसकरनेकी जिम्मेदारी हमारीनहींहै,हमनेउसपरिस्थितिकोबदलाहै।आज बड़ेसेबड़ेव्यक्तिकोस्टीलप्लांट,जमीनऔररिफाइनरीबेचनेपड़रहेहैं,औरबैंकोंकालोनवापसआरहाहै। मैंसमझताहूंकिलिक्विडेशनमेंनजानेदेना,समझदारीहै।लिक्विडेशनमेंकंपनियांकौड़ियोंकेदामचलीजाएंगी,नौकरियांऔररोजगारजाएंगे,इसलिएआईबीसीपूरीकोशिशकरताहैकिहरकंपनीकोकैसेचालूरखाजाए।उन्हेंचालूरखनेमेंजोससटेनेबलडेटहै,जितनाऋणकेऊपरब्याजदेसकतेहैं,उसीब्याजपरतोलोगऋणलेंगे।आपजोहेयरकटसमझतेहैं,वहआपकेजमानेकेदिएहुएखराबलोनऔरआपकेजमानेमेंदिएहुएलोनकोएवरग्रीनऔररीस्ट्रक्चरकरकेफर्जीएंट्रीज,हमउनएंट्रीजकापर्दाफाशकरकेदुनियाकेसामनेरखरहेहैं। बैंकर्सकेबारेमेंकहागयाकिवेरिकवरकरनेकीकोशिशनहींकररहेहैं।मोइलीसाहब,बैंकर्सनेएकसशक्तयोजनाबनाईहै।सभीबैंकर्सनेएकइंटरबैंकक्रेडिटरअरैंजमेंटकीएकएग्रीमेंटबनाईहैऔरसभीनेफैसलालियाहैकिबैंकोंकेकामकाजकोकैसेसुधारेंगे,बैंक्सकैसेएकदूसरेसेकोऑपरेटकरेंगे।पहलेयहहोताथाकिचारबैंककालोनखराबहोरहाहैऔरअन्यचारबैंक्सनयालोनदेरहेहैं,अबयेसभीचीजेंखत्महोंगी।सभीएक-दूसरेसेबातकरेंगे।मैंनेपहलेसशक्तकीघोषणाकी,मैंनेकहाथाकिसबसेबड़ीजोतकलीफबैंकोंमेंथी,वेएक-दूसरेसेबातनहींकरतेथे।चारबैंक्सबीमारपड़ेहैं, because of somebody’s loan. दूसरेचारबैंकोंकेकरैंटएकाउंटमेंपैसाआरहाहै,जारहाहै।अबवहसबखत्महोगा।बैंक्सएक-दूसरेकासहयोगकरेंगेऔरसहयोगकरके,एकबड़ेआर्गेनाइजपैशनसेभारतकाक्रेडिटग्रोथहोगा,भारतकीइकोनॉमीकाग्रोथहोगा,अर्थव्यवस्थासुधरेगीऔरपूर्णरूपसेहमबैंकिंगमेंएकईमानदारव्यवस्थाबनानेकेलिएसंकल्पितहैं। मोइलीसाहबनेएकप्रश्नपूछाकिक्याडीनेशनलाइजकरनेकीयोजनाहै।मैंआपकेमाध्यमसेसदनमेंस्पष्टकरनाचाहताहूंकिजोपब्लिकसैक्टरबैंक्स,बैंकिंगरेग्युलेशनएक्टकेतहतआतेहैं,किसीकोडीनेशनलाइजकरनेकीकोईयोजनाआजसरकारकेसामनेनहींहै।इसीप्रकारसेजोकाम-काजआईबीसीकेतहतकामकियाजारहाहै,वहबैंकोंकोऔरज्यादामजबूतबनानेऔरज्यादाऋणदेनेकीकाबिलियतलानेकेलिएकियाजारहाहै। जैदेवगल्लाऔरकिरीटजीनेक्रॉसबॉर्डरइंसॉल्वेसीकीबातकीहै।इसकमेटीनेउसप़रभीविचारकिया,क्योंकियहबहुतपेंचिदाविषयहै।इसेऔरज्यादासमझनेकीजरूरतहै।इसमेंविश्वस्तरीयअनुभवलेनेकीजरूरतहै।उन्होंनेकहाहैकिवहइसकीरिकमेंडेशनबादमेंदेंगे।आजउन्होंनेइसकेलिएकोईरिकमेंडेशननहींदीहै।जबवहरिकमेंडेशनआएगीतोहमउसेसदनकेसमक्षलेकरआएंगे। विनायकराऊतजीनेआमआदमी,युवाओंऔरमहिलाओंकेलिएबातकीहै।मैंसमझताहूंकिशरदत्रिपाठीजीनेउसकाअच्छाजवाबदियाहै।वास्तवमेंइससरकारनेगांवऔरगरीबलोगोंकोलोनदिलानेकेलिएसबसेज्यादाकामकियाहै।केवल ‘मुद्रायोजना’से 12 करोड़ सेअधिकलोन्स,चारलाखकरोड़रुपयेसेअधिकपैसेदिएगए।आखिरयेकिसकोमिले,यहछोटेलोगों,युवाओंऔर 70 प्रतिशतमुद्रालोनमहिलाओंकोमिलेहैं। इसलोनसेकरोड़ोंलोगोंकोरोजगार,स्वावलम्बीजीवनजीनेऔरअपनेपैरोंपरखड़ेहोनेकीताकतमिलीहै।इसीप्रकारसेप्रधानमंत्रीआवासयोजनाकेतहतएककरोड़घरबनाएहैं।प्रधानमंत्रीआवासयोजनाकेतहतछहलाखतककेलोनमेंहमसाढ़ेछहप्रतिशतइंटरेस्टकीछूटबीसवर्ष तककेलोनपरदेतेहैं।जोमध्यमवर्गीयपरिवारनौलाखतकलोनलेतेहैं,उन्हेंचारप्रतिशतकीछूटबीससालकेलिएदेतेहैं।जोमध्यमवर्गीयपरिवार 12 लाख तककालोनलेतेहैं,उन्हेंतीनप्रतिशतकीछूटबीसवर्ष केलिएदेतेहैं।यहीकामएकगरीबकोताकतदेताहैऔरमध्यमवर्गीयपरिवारकोअपनेघरकामालिकबननेकासपनासाकारकरताहै।प्रधानमंत्रीजीकापक्काइरादाहैकिवर्ष 2022 तकदेशमेंहरव्यक्तिकेसिरपरउसकेघरकीछतहो। महोदय,मैंएकआखिरीबातकहकरअपनीबातकोविरामदूंगा।पुरानेजमानेमेंजोरेज्योलूशनहोताथाजैसेसरफेसी,बीआईएफआरetc,उसमेंनौप्रतिशतखर्चाहोताथाऔरचार-आठसाललगतेथे,उसकेबावजूदरेज्योलूशनकभीखत्मनहींहोताथा।उसकेकारणकिसीकम्पनीमेंयदिपूंजीसौरुपयेलगीहैऔररिजाल्वकरके 70-80 रुपये मिलनेकीसंभावनाहै,तोचार-आठसालबाददसपैसे,बीसपैसेयापच्चीसपरसेंटहीपूंजीरहजातीथी।उससमयकोदेखेंतो 25-26 परसेंटरेज्योलूशनमेंरिकवरीहोतीथी।आईबीसीकेतहतअभीतकजोकेसहुएहैं,उसमेंएकपरसेंटसेकमकॉस्टआईहैऔरयदिएवरेजरिकवरीदेखें,तोकुछकेसेज़मेंतोशत-प्रतिशतरिकवरीहुईहै।कुछकेसेज़मेंपूराप्रिंसिपलआयाऔरआगेचलकररीकॉम्पेंसेटकेलिएइक्विटीहमारेपासआई,लेकिनऑवरऑल 55 प्रतिशतसेज्यादारिकवरीआईबीसीकेसेज़मेंहुईहै।मैंसमझताहूंकियहभीदर्शाताहैकिकैसेआईबीसीसेटाइमलीएक्शनलेनेसेहमरिकवरीमैक्सिमाइजकरपाएंगेऔरआगेकेलिएयदिकोईकेसखराबहोताहै,कोईकम्पनीतकलीफमेंजातीहै,फास्टएक्शनकेकारणपहलेबैंकोंकाजितनानुकसानहोताथा,उतनानहींहोगा। Just to make it light, अधीररंजनजी,आपइसेव्यक्तिगततौरपरमतलीजिएगा,आपकेऊपरकोईव्यक्तिगतटिप्पणीनहींहै,लेकिनव्यवस्थाकोआपदेखेंतोवर्ष 2007 से 2014 तक आपनेहेयरकटही नहीं बालोंकोभीनोचलियाथा।उसमेंकईलोगतोबिनाबालकेरहगए,लेकिनहमनेकोशिशकीहैकिहेयरट्रांसप्‍लांटिंग करकेजोपुरानेलोगबुरीतरहसेनोचलिएगएथे,उन्हेंट्रांसप्लांटकरें।इसीप्रकारसेबैंकोंकीजोहालतथी,उसेभीहमएकप्रकारसेहार्टट्रांसप्लांटकरकेउन्हेंपुनर्जीवितकरनेकेलिएआईबीसीमेंअमेंडमेंटलाएहैं। *m24 

SHRI N.K. PREMACHANDRAN ( KOLLAM ): Thank you very much, Sir.  Even after a very detailed and structured reply by the hon. Minister the pertinent, the sole question remains unanswered, that is, what was the urgency to promulgate the Ordinance.  That was the main questions which has to be answered and it still remains unanswered. SHRI PIYUSH GOYAL : I did reply. SHRI N.K. PREMACHANDRAN : Sir, I do agree with the fact that the Insolvency Law Committee, which consists of 14 Members, has submitted a Report on 26th March, 2018.  They have given a number of recommendations and almost all the recommendations have been accepted by the Government.  Immediately after accepting all those recommendations, they have issued an Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code Ordinance on 6th June, 2018.  A very pertinent question has been raised by Mahtab ji as to what has happened during the gap between 26th March, 2018 and 6th June, 2018 or what has happened during the gap between 6th June, 2018 and 18th of this month, that is the date of commencement of the Monsoon Session of Parliament. What has happened? Can the Government explain and convince the House that these are the benefits that have occurred due to the promulgation of the Ordinance? Then, we can very well say that the promulgation of the Ordinance was of an urgent necessity. It was due to unavoidable circumstances that compelled the Government to issue the Ordinance. There we have cited the examples. If the Government is not able to satisfy and convince this august House regarding the promulgation of the Ordinance, then definitely the allegation -- which has been raised regarding the bona-fides of the Government in promulgating the Ordinance, to just help some industrial groups, especially regarding the resolution process which was pending and which has happened after 6th June, 2018 -- is correct. That is a very pertinent question and a specific allegation which was raised by all the hon. Members in this House. So, such a necessity was not shown in any of the other cases. That is the first point. The second point which I would like to state is that the hon. Minister has referred to my speech at the time of consideration and passing of this Bill. That is, the hon. Finance Minister, Shri Arun Jaitley Ji, has replied to the debate also. I had raised the point that the minority dominates over the majority’s interest. That was entirely in a different provision. I would like to clarify that. I remember my speech and have taken the records from the Parliament Library also. Even a minor default will place the company into the hands of the insolvency experts. Unless 75 per cent of the creditors agree to continue the operation of the company and 75 per cent of the creditors agree that the company should go into operation, it should be against the insolvency proceedings. Here my suggestion at that time was that 26 per cent of the creditors, even unsecured creditors, can move for insolvency resolution and thereby, go for the liquidation proceedings. It is very specific. Kindly see it. About 26 per cent of the unsecured creditors can dominate the interests of the secured creditors of 74 per cent. I have sought the amendment at the time of passing and consideration of the Bill. Here, I have moved the amendment that even 26 per cent of the unsecured creditors can dominate the interest of the 74 per cent of the secured creditors. So, the secured creditors are in a bad position and those unsecured creditors are in a beneficial position. That was the point that I had made at the time of consideration and passing of the Bill. But, here there is no amendment. At that time also, I had moved the amendment. Unfortunately, no amendment is coming. Amendment is coming in case of resolution process which has to be approved by 75 per cent of the financial creditors. Sir, the figure of 75 per cent of the financial creditors has come to 66 per cent. What is the significance of this 66 per cent? Even we can understand 51 per cent. … (Interruptions) America has done this. Now, we are all following the economic philosophy of America. But, the social and financial conditions of India is entirely different from that of the US economy and the conditions which are being prevailing there. Sir, the point is this. I have also moved some amendments regarding this issue. I am concluding.  The pertinent point is that after 6th June, 2018, the industrial resolution process has been approved and this is the subsequent action of coming to this 66 per cent. That is a point which we are highlighting. How many issues and records are there? Even the reports of Law Commission are here. How many reports of the very eminent committees are there? Why is the Government not coming forward with an Ordinance so as to ensure the proceedings at the earliest? So, thereby, we are challenging the credibility of the Government and the bona-fides of the Government regarding the promulgation of the Ordinance. That is why, since the Government is not able to convince the august House regarding the specific allegations that have been made that this is just to help some industrial houses, we once again would like say that we are opposing the Bill and I am pressing for my amendments. With these words, I conclude. Thank you very much, Sir. *m25 श्रीमल्लिकार्जुनखड़गे ( गुलबर्गा ) : सर, इसबिलपरबहुतअच्छीतकरीरेंहुईंऔरउनकाजवाबभीमंत्रीजीनेअपनेहीस्टाइलमेंदिया।…(व्यवधान)मैंइसवक्तयहीपूछनाचाहताहूंकिहमारेडॉ.किरीटसोमैयाजीनेअपनेभाषणमेंयहकहाकिआजजोएन.पी.ए.इतनाबढ़ाहै,उसकाकारणयू.पी.ए.सरकारहै,ऐसाउन्होंनेकहा। …(व्यवधान)आपमेरीबातसुनिए। …(व्यवधान)फैक्ट्सकोतोआपभीइरेज़नहींकरसकते,हमभीनहींकरसकते।लेकिनआपकेपासरिकॉर्डहै,उसरिकॉर्डकेमुताबिक 2012, 2013 और 2014 में जोएन.पी.ए.सिर्फ 2 लाख 63हजाररुपएथा,आजवह 12 लाख करोड़रुपयेहै। …(व्यवधान)यहवजहहैकिआपइसकेबावजूदभीअपनेआपअपनीपीठथपथपारहेहैंकिआपनेबहुतअच्छाकामकियाहै। मैंएकदूसरीचीज़भीआपकेनोटिसमेंलानाचाहताहूं।जिन 12 कंपनीज़कोरिज़र्वबैंकनेयहकहाथाऔरउनकेबारेमेंप्रेसमेंभीआयाथा - 12 डर्टी कंपनीज़,डर्टीडज़न।उसकोउन्होंनेडर्टीडज़नकानामदियाथा।उसडर्टीडज़नमेंएकहै,जिसकाहमारेप्रेमचन्द्रनजीनेबार-बारनामलिया। …(व्यवधान)मैंउनकंपनियोंकेबारेमेंपढ़नानहींचाहताहूं,भूषणस्टील,इलैक्ट्रॉनस्टील,अमितऑटो,मॉन्टैक्स,लैंको,एस्सार,मैंइनसबकोनहींपढ़ताहूं।ये 12 कंपनीज़हैं। …(व्यवधान)इन 12 कंपनियोंमेंसेएककंपनीऐसीहै, …(व्यवधान)हमारेसाथभीहै,आपकेसाथभीहै,किसीऔरकेसाथभीहोंगे,मुझेउसकीफिक्रनहींहै। …(व्यवधान)लेकिनइससदनकेनोटिसमेंमैंयहलानाचाहताहूं।मैंएकहीमिनटलूंगा। “The fact that Reliance JM Financial ARC was the sole bidder for Alok Textile Company and bid multiple times is suspicious. Initially, JMARC did not disclose the strategic partner resulting in cancellation of bid since it is in violation of Section 29A of the IBC Act.” 

  

जबबिडहोरहाथा,तोउसवक्तइसेकैंसिलकियाऔरउन्होंनेइसेडिस्क्लोज़नहींकिया। “Since the bid amount is approximately Rs.5000 crore. Of Rs.29600 crore owned by Alok Industries, lenders have to take a deep haircut.” 

  

पांचहजारकरोड़मेंसे 29,600 रुपयेउनकोगए।इसमेंएककंपनीकाकितनाफायदाहुआ,उन्होंनेयहबताया।आपनेइसकेबारेमेंरिप्लाईनहींदिया।आपनेइनसॉल्वेंसीऔरबैंकरप्टसीकेबारेमेंसारीचीज़ेंबोलीं,यहठीकहै,लेकिनआपनेकियाक्या?किसकेलिएकिया? “Those 270 days deadline for insolvency under IBC ended on April 14 without successful resolution.” 

  

270दिनोंमेंयहरेज़ोल्यूशनसक्सेसफुलहोनाथा।यहइसकीडेडलाइनथी।लेकिनयहनहींहुआ,क्योंकिउनकेपासकेवल 72 परसेंटशेयर्सथे। “On June 6, the IBC amended Ordinance was promulgated with reduction in voting percentage of 51 per cent from the earlier 75 per cent, i.e., 66 per cent for key decisions.  On June 11, the NCLT ordered re-look at this deal.” 

  

मैंपूछनाचाहताहूंकिआपकाजोटाइम 6 जून काथा,उसमेंतोइनकोमेजौरिटीनहींमिली।जितनेभीलोगोंकोइनकोसपोर्टकरनाचाहिएथा,उन्होंनेनहींकिया। On June 20, RIL GM got the deal with 72 per cent votes in favour. उसकेबादआपनेएकऑर्डिनेंसनिकाला।क्योंकि 75 परसेंटचाहिएथाऔरइनकेपास 72 परसेंटथे।इसकेलिएइसको 66 परसेंटपरलेकरआए। 66 परसेंटआपजोलेकरआए,वहइनकेलिएलेकरआए।मुकेशअंबानीकेलिएलाएयाकिसीऔरकेलिएलाए?आलोकइंडस्ट्रीकाऑनरकौनहै,रिलायंस?मैंजाननाचाहताहूंकिआपएकतरफइसतरहसेएडवोकेटकररहेहैंकिपहलेकेलोगोंनेजोभीकामकिया,वहबेकारथाऔरउसमेंकेवलकरप्शनहीहुआथा।मैंपूछनाचाहताहूंकिआपने 75 परसेंटसेघटाकर 66 परसेंटक्योंकिया?इसकेपीछेकौनसेअनदेखेहाथहैं,उसकेबारेमेंआपकोबतानाचाहिए? मैंदूसरीबातआपसेयहजाननाचाहताहूंकि Sole bidder repeatedly bid despite rejection concealing the name of Reliance. रिलायंसकानामउसमेंनहींआयाथा,मैंनेनहींलिया,लेकिनआपने,भर्तृहरिमहताबजीनेलिया।यहअच्छाहुआ। Ordinance passed by BJP to reduce voting facilities. आपनेएकइंडस्ट्रीकोसपोर्टकरनेकेलिएऔरउनकेफायदेकेलिएऑर्डिनेंसनिकाला।आपआजकानूनलासकतेथे,लेकिननहींलाए?आपनेइतनीजल्दबाजीमेंकामकिया, so fast and war footing परआपनेकामकिया।इसतरहसेतोआपफ्लडकेसमयमेंभीकामनहींकररहेहैं।आपनेवारफूटिंग परकामकरकेफायदापहुंचायाहै।इसलिएइनकारिप्लायीठीकनहींहैऔरजोप्वाइंटहमनेरेज़किया,उनकाउत्तरइनकेपासनहींहै,इसलिएहमप्रोटेस्टकरकेवॉकआउटकरतेहैं। 18 42 hrs 

At this stage Shri Mallikarjun Kharge and some other hon. Members 

left the House. *m26 श्रीनिशिकान्तदुबे ( गोड्डा ) : उपाध्यक्षमहोदय,मंत्रीजीनेअपनेक्लेरिफिकेशनमेंयहबतायाकियहजोकानूनहैयहरेट्रोस्पेक्टिवनहींहै,प्रोसपेक्टिवहै।रिलायंससेउनकोक्यापरेशानीहै,यहउनकोसोचनाहै,लेकिनजहांतकसरकारकासवालहैऔरजिसकोभीकानूनकीसमझहै 66 परसेंटआलोकइंडस्ट्रीकेकेसमेंलागूनहींहोगा।मैंयहबातबड़ीहीगम्भीरतासेबोलसकताहूंक्योंकियहरेट्रोस्पेक्टिवलॉनहींहै।मंत्रीजीसेमेरेदोक्लेरिफिकेशंसहैं,जोमैंउनसेआपकेमाध्यमसेजाननाचाहूंगा।…(व्यवधान) SHRI TATHAGATA SATPATHY ( DHENKANAL ):  Are you authorised? श्रीनिशिकान्तदुबे : मैंजॉइंटकमेटीकामेम्बरथाऔरमैंनेवहकानूनबनायाहैऔरमुझेपताहैकियहकानूनरेट्रोस्पेक्टिवनहींहै,यहप्रोसपेक्टिवहै।आलोकइंडस्ट्रीकाकेसपहलेसेचलरहाहै,इसलिएउसकेऊपरयहलागूनहींहोगा। मैंजाननाचाहताहूंकिसीडीआर,एसडीआर, S4A, 520 और एआरसीयेपांचचीजेंऐसीहैंजोएनपीएकेलिएसबसेज्यादाजिम्मेदारहै।वर्ष 2014 केपहलेकेजोलोनहैं,वहीलोनआजकीडेटमेंएनपीएहुएहैं।सात-आठलाखकरोड़रुपयेकेएनपीएमेंसेहमारीसरकारकेसमयमेंदिएहुएलोनमेंसेमुश्किलसेएक-दोहजारकरोड़रुपयेकेलोनएनपीएहुएहोंगे।मेराआपकेमाध्यमसेमाननीयमंत्रीजीसेप्रश्नहैकिइनसारीकम्पनियोंकेलिएकंसल्टेंटथे,क्योंकि 20-25 बैंक्सकंसोर्शियमबनाकरलोनदेरहेथेऔरउसकेलिएआरबीआईकेरूल्सकोफॉलोकररहेथे,जिसकारेगुलेटरकांग्रेसकीसरकारनेअपनेआदमीकोबनालिया।एसबीआईकाचेयरमैनजोकम्पीटेंटनहींथा,उसकोबनादियागया।इनसभीकाकंसल्टेंटएसबीआईकैप्सथे,यहसारीपॉलिसीआरबीआईकीथीतोक्याइसआधारपरभारतसरकारउसवक्तकेतत्कालीनआरबीआईगवर्नरऔरएसबीआईकैप्सकेहेडकेऊपरक्याकोईइनक्वायरीबैठाएगी? दूसरा,जिसमें 29 A का सवालहै?जैसाकि 29 A में किरीटसोमैयाजीकहाथा।मंत्रीजीआपनेफॉरेन्सिकऑडिटकीजोबातकीहैकिइसमेंबिनानीइंडस्ट्रीऔरडालमियाइंडस्ट्रीकाजोबड़ाकेसचलरहाहै।इसमेंसुप्रीमकोर्टकाऑब्ज़र्वेशनहैकिजोभीप्रत्यक्षतौरपरनहींपारहेहैं,वेअप्रत्यक्षतौरपरजारहेहैं।यदिदोबाराकमेटीऑफक्रेडिटर्स,एन.सी.एल.टी.गलतीकररहीहैऔरउसमेंभारतसरकारभीगलतीकररहीहैतोभविष्यमेंयहकामनहींहो,इसकेलिएभारतसरकारक्याउपायकरनाचाहतीहै?यदिआपयहबातदेशकोबतादेंगेतोबहुतकृपाहोगी। *m27 

SHRI PIYUSH GOYAL :  I have already clarified earlier on what the leader of the Congress Party has said and what Shri Premachandran has said. This Report is of March and the decision was taken in April. Ultimately, it is the NCLT order and I have a copy of the NCLT order.  In that also, it is written that the resolution professional actually made an appeal that all these decisions should not be referred to CoC and actually an order should be passed to start liquidation. So, I find that the role of RP and CoC was absolutely correct.  It is a decision of the court and I do not think that we, in the House, are competent to start questioning the decisions of the court. Similarly, on whatever the hon. Member has said, these are matters on which the court is deciding. The Government is not interfering in the NCLT process. We have left it to the courts to interpret the law and take necessary action as they deem fit. HON. DEPUTY SPEAKER:  As Shri N.K. Premachandran is not present, I shall now put the Statutory Resolution to the vote of the House. The question is : * The sign + marked above the name of a Member indicates that the Question was actually asked on the floor of the House by  that  Member. * Not recorded. * Not recorded. * Not recorded. * Not recorded. * Not recorded. * Not recorded.