Inasmuch as the issues arising for consideration in both these civil revision petitions are one and the same, a common order is being passed. 2. The Civil Revision Petition, in C.R.P.No.2541 of 2009, has been filed against the order, dated 30.6.2009, made in I.A.No.1366 of 2009, in O.S.No.603 of 2009, on the file of the VIII Assistant Judge, City Civil Court, Chennai. The Civil Revision Petition, in C.R.P.No.2542 of 2009, has been filed against the order, dated 30.6.2009, made in I.A.No.1367 of 2009, in O.S.No.603 of 2009, on the file of the VIII Assistant Judge, City Civil Court, Chennai. 3. The petitioners in the present civil revision petitions are the defendants in the suit, in O.S.No.603 of 2009, pending on the file of the VIII Assistant Judge, City Civil Court, Chennai. The respondent herein had filed the suit, in O.S.No.603 of 2009, on the file of the VIII Assistant Judge, City Civil Court, Chennai, praying for a decree of permanent injunction restraining the defendants therein, their men, agents and others acting on their behalf, from, in any way, interfering with the peaceful possession and enjoyment of the suit schedule property, by the plaintiff, except under the due process of law and for a permanent injunction restraining the defendants and the others from, alienating the suit schedule property. 4. The respondent had also filed two interlocutory applications, in I.A.Nos.1366 and 1367 of 2009, in O.S.No.603 of 2009. I A.No.1366 of 2009 had been filed praying for an order of interim injunction restraining the petitioners in the present civil revision petition, their men, agents and others, acting on their behalf, from alienating the suit schedule property, pending disposal of the suit. I.A.No.1367 of 2009 had been filed praying for an order of interim injunction restraining the petitioners in the present civil revision petition, their men, agents and others, acting on their behalf, from in any way interfering with the plaintiff's peaceful possession and enjoyment of the suit schedule property, pending disposal of the suit. By a common order, dated 30.6.2009, the trial Court had allowed the applications filed by the respondent. 5. In the interlocutory applications filed by the respondent, in I.A.Nos.1366 and 1367 of 2009, it had been stated that the respondent is the joint owner of the land and the superstructure, in Plot No.Y-202 (Old No.4518), Anna Nagar, Chennai, in R.S.No.102/ Part 103/part Mullam Village, measuring an extent of 2 grounds and 640 Sq.Ft. It had been further stated that the said property had been purchased by the respondents late father Surrender Kumar, jointly, along with three other brothers of his father, namely, Ravi Prakash, Shasi Prakash and Rattan Kumar, from and out of the joint family business income, in the year, 1982, from one R.S.Malia, by a registered sale deed, bearing Document No.160 of 1982, registered in the office of the Sub Registrar, Anna Nagar, Chennai. 6. It has also been stated that, from the date of its purchase, the suit property has been in the possession of the respondent's father and his family members. After the death of the respondent's father, in the year, 1983, the respondent's mother and elder brother, Madhusudan, has been in continuous possession of the said property, as the legal heirs of the respondent's father, Surrender Kumar. During the life time of the respondent's father several businesses were being carried on, along with his three brothers. A number of properties had also been purchased, jointly. However, the possession of the properties were with the defendants family members. During the course of the joint family business, several loans and credit facilities had been availed from the Punjab National Bank. Ravi Prakash the father of the petitioners was entrusted with the responsibility of taking care of the litigations. The respondent, his mother and his elder brother and the other family members, who are the legal heirs of Surrender Kumar were in possession of the suit schedule property, as joint owners. While so, on 16.1.2009, a notice had been served on the respondent and his brother, Madhusudan, from the petitioners, stating that the suit property had been purchased by the defendants and their family members, in an auction conducted by the Debts Recovery Tribunal, held in the month of October, 2006, based on which they had threatened to take possession of the suit property, on 23.1.2009. 7. It had also been stated that the respondent and his family members were unaware of the proceedings before the Debts Recovery Tribunal, Chennai. It was learnt that Ravi Prakash, in collusion with the bank officials and the petitioners herein, had usurped the suit property and they are taking steps to throw out the respondent, his mother and his brother, who are the joint owners of the suit property, by threat and by using illegal means. In such circumstances, the respondent had prayed for an order of interim injunction to restrain the petitioners and their men and agents from, in any way, alienating the suit property and from In any way, interfering with the plaintiff's peaceful possession and enjoyment of the suit property, pending disposal of the suit. 8. The petitioners in the present civil revision petition had filed a counter affidavit stating that the suit filed by the respondent, in O.S.No.603 of 2009, and the interlocutory applications, in I.A.Nos.1366 and 1367 of 2009, are not maintainable in law, as the respondent is a stranger to the suit property and as he is a trespasser in the suit property. It has been further stated that the petitioners are the owners of the suit property, along with Champadevi. Since, it is an admitted position, the respondent is not entitled to an order of injunction, as prayed for in the interlocutory applications. 9. It has been stated that the interim orders had been granted by the trial Court, by its order, dated 6.2.2009. However, the respondent had not complied with the requirements of Order XXXIX Rule 3A of the Civil Procedure Code, 1908. Therefore, the interim orders granted in favour of the respondent ought to be vacated. It has also been stated that the trial Court ought not to have granted the interim orders in favour of the respondent, as he had admitted that the petitioners are the registered owners of the suit property, by way of an auction sale, conducted by the Debts Recovery tribunal, Chennai, under a Certificate of sale of immovable property No.65/2006, dated 10.10.2006, in T.A.No.39/2001. Since the said sale had become final there cannot be a prima facie case in favour of the respondent, for granting the interim orders in his favour. Injunction orders cannot be granted against the true owners of the suit property. The respondent had not come before the Court with clean hands, as he had suppressed crucial facts which are material to the decision making process of the Court. It had also been stated that the petitioners have been put to irreparable loss and agony due to the continuance of the interim orders granted by the trial Court, by its order, dated 30.6.2009. Since the balance of convenience is only in favour of the petitioners the applications filed by the respondent ought to be dismissed, as devoid of merits. 10. Considering the averments made on behalf of the petitioners, as well as the respondents, the trial Court by its order, dated 30.6.2009, had allowed the interlocutory applications, in I.A.Nos.1366 and 1377 of 2009, accepting the claims made by the respondent. 11. Aggrieved by the order, dated 30.6.2009, passed by the learned VIII Assistant Judge, City Civil Court, Chennai, the respondents, in I.A.Nos.1366 and 1377 of 2009, have preferred the present civil revision petitions. 12. The learned counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioners had stated that the order of the Court below is unsustainable in law, as it is opposed to the facts of the case and the records available. The order of the Court below has been vitiated by material irregularities and errors of jurisdiction. The trial Court had miserably failed in appreciating the basic issue of lack of jurisdiction of the Civil Court, in entertaining a suit of this nature, in view of the specific provisions contained in Section 34 of the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002. 13. It has also been stated that the trial court had failed to consider the fact that its jurisdiction had been ousted by Section 34 of the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002, and therefore, the suit, as well as the interlocutory applications filed by the respondent, are not maintainable. It had also been stated that, when the respondent had admitted that the petitioners are the owners of the suit property, the trial Court ought not to have granted the interim orders. When the appropriate remedy for the respondent would be to approach the Debts Recovery Tribunal or the Debts Recovery Appellate Tribunal, for setting aside the sale certificate issued in favour of the petitioners, the trial Court ought to have dismissed the suit and the interlocutory applications filed by the respondent. 14. The learned counsel for the petitioners had also submitted that the respondent had not challenged the sale certificate issued by the Debts Recovery Tribunal, in favour of the revision petitioners and therefore, the sale had become final. The learned VIII Assistant Judge, City Civil Court, Chennai, had taken into account irrelevant factors before granting the interim orders, as prayed for by the respondent. Since Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002, is a self contained Code, it overrides all other laws relating to the matter. When Section 34 of the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002, imposes a total ban on the Civil Courts from entertaining civil suits, in respect of properties being dealt with under the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002 , the trial Court should have dismissed the suit filed by the respondent, in limine. When the respondent has been aware of the proceedings before the Debts Recovery Tribunal, it was not open to him to file a suit before the City Civil Court, Chennai, to set aside the auction sale conducted by the Debts Recovery Tribunal, Chennai. 15. The learned counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioners had relied on the following decisions in support of his contentions: 15.4) In T.N.Handloom Weavers Co-op. Society V. S.R.Ejaz (2009(8) MLJ 991), the Supreme Court had held as follows: II. "The statutory provision as contained in Section 11 C.P.C bars the jurisdiction of a Court to try any suit or issue in which the matter directly and substantially in issue has been directly and substantially in issue in a former suit between the same parties, or between parties under whom they or any of them claim, litigating under the same title and has been heard and finally decided by such Court. As per Explanation IV to Section 11 C.P.C., any matter which might and ought to have been made ground of defence or attack in such former suit shall be deemed to have been a matter directly and substantially in issue in such suit. Therefore, the second suit is barred not only on the ground that the issue raised in the said suit was directly in issue in the former suit between the parties or their predecessor-in-interest but also on the ground of a deeming fiction. The explanation IV to Section 11 of C.P.C was inserted with a specific purpose, to put an end to the litigation once for all. In the absence of such a provision, the parties would file suits after suits with new grounds. There should be finality to litigation. The principles of constructive res judicata would be applicable in such cases. In case parties are permitted to initiate re-litigation, it would have the effect of unsettling matters which were settled earlier. III. "There is no dispute with respect to the legal position that before approaching the High Court in exercise of jurisdiction under Article 227of the Constitution of India, the parties should avail the alternative remedy. However, in a given case, if the attempt of a party to the litigatin was to take undue advantage and the suit was a clear case in which the very sit itself was filed only to circumvent the order passed by the Supreme Court, this Court was not expected to be a mute spectator without taking steps to correct the jurisdictional error." IV. "When the Supreme Court issues a direction in a particular matter and the Civil wa apprised of such direction at a later point of time, the Court was bound to implement the direction. The Court was not expected to entertain any proceeding which would interfere with the order passed by the Supreme Court or the direction issued." V. "In cases wherein the suit itself was an abuse of process of law and filed with the sole intention of defeating the order passed by the Supreme Court and the trial Court having apprised of such facts, failed to act at once, the High Court is entitled to exercise the supervisory jurisdiction under Article 227 of the Constitution of India to axe the suit in the initial stage itself." 15.5) In Sneh Gupta V. Devi Sarup (2009(6) SCC 194), it has been held as follows: 16. The learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent had submitted that the sale certificate has not been issued under the provisions of the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002 , as stated by the learned counsel for the petitioners. In fact, it has been issued under Sections 25 to 29 of the Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993, read with Rule 65 of the Second Schedule to Income Tax Act, 1961 . The civil suit filed by the respondent before the City Civil Court, Chennai, has not been filed challenging the sale certificate issued by the Debts Recovery Tribunal, Chennai, or an order passed by the said Tribunal. 17. It has been further stated that the petitioners had played a fraud on the respondent, by colluding with the bank officials concerned in bringing the property for sale, by auction. The petitioners are not strangers or third parties, as both the petitioners and the respondent are cousins. It is the petitioners, who had initiated the proceedings before the Debts Recovery Tribunal, with unclean hands. The proceedings before the Debts Recovery Tribunal had been initiated only with the mala fide intention of grabbing the property, which belongs to the respondent and his family members. 18. The learned counsel for the respondent had further stated that the trial Court was right in entertaining the suit and in granting the interim orders in favour of the respondent. The Court below had taken into consideration all the relevant factors before it had allowed the interlocutory applications filed by the respondent, in I.A.Nos.1366 and 1367 of 2009. The fact that the respondent and his family members are in possession and enjoyment of the suit schedule property cannot be disputed by the petitioners. In such circumstances, the trial Court had found it fit to grant the interim orders in favour of the respondent. The appropriate remedy for the petitioners to challenge the order passed by the trial Court would be only by way of an appeal. Therefore, the civil revision petitions filed by the petitioners, under Article 227 of the Constitution of India cannot be maintained. Since the civil revision petitions filed by the petitioners are devoid of merits, they are liable to be dismissed. 19. The learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent had relied on the following decisions in support of his contentions: 19.2. In Subramaniam, S.V. V. Cypress Semiconductor Technology India Private Ltd. (2008(1) CTC 471), it had been held, by a Division Bench of this Court, that, when a decree had been obtained by fraud, the suit is not maintainable. 19.3) In G.V.Films Limited V. Indian Bank (2009(4) CTC 663), it has been held that Civil Courts do have jurisdiction, in respect of matters covered by SARFAESI Act , and even if the financial institutions concerned had invoked the provisions of the SARFAESI Act the jurisdiction of the Civil Court is not ousted 20. From the following decisions it is clear that when an alternative remedy is available, under Order XLIII Rule 1 of the Civil procedure Code, 1908, it may not be open to the petitioners to prefer a Civil Revision Petition before this Court, under Article 227 of the Constitution of India: 21. In view of the submissions made by the learned counsels appearing on behalf of the petitioners, as well as the respondent and on a perusal of the records available and in view of the decisions cited above, this court is of the considered view that the the petitioners have not shown sufficient cause or reason for granting the reliefs, as prayed for by the petitioners in the present civil revision petitions. 22. From the decisions cited by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent it is seen that civil suits can be maintained in certain circumstances, in spite of the prohibition prescribed by Section 34 of the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002,. Further, the petitioners could avail the appellate remedy, provided under Order XLIII Rule 1 of the Civil Procedure Code, 1908, by filing an appeal challenging the impugned order of the trial Court, dated 30.6.2009, made in I.A.Nos.1366 and 1367 of 2009. Further, it is not in dispute that it would be open to the petitioners to take possession of the suit schedule property, under the due process of law. As such, the civil revision petitions are devoid of merits and therefore, they are liable to be dismissed. Hence, they are dismissed. No costs. Consequently, connected miscellaneous petitions are closed. csh