1. Grievance in this application is against dumping of sewage, carried

by unauthorized trucks/vehicles, on roads and drains, resulting in

pollution and damage to the environment. The complaint has specified

locations at Chandan Hola Main Road Bus Stand near Pulliya, Gadaipur

Bandh Road, DLF, Vasant Kunj Farm House, Delhi. 2. The matter was considered on 22.12.2021. Reference was made to

another identical matter and it was observed that such incidents may be

taking place at various locations which were required to be addressed. The

operative part of the said order is as follows: 3. Since such incidents may be taking place at various
locations which needs to be verified by the Delhi Jal Board
(DJB), Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) in
coordination with the concerned Municipal Corporations and
local Police. Report may be furnished within one month by e-
mail at [email protected] preferably in the form of searchable PDF/
OCR Support PDF and not in the form of Image PDF. DPCC will be the
nodal agency for coordination and compliance. DPCC may also 2 ascertain the status of follow-up action of the above order of the
 Tribunal and mention the same in its report alongwith result of
 general survey of other areas where such problem may be found." 3. The matter was further considered on 22.04.2022 in light of report

of the DPCC, acknowledging that septage tankers were dumping sewage

waste in the drains in the night and early morning instead of taking the

same to the nearest STPs managed by DJB and PWD for scientific

treatment. The Tribunal thus found that there was need to review current

mechanism and evolve more effective system to prevent such incidents.

Violators needed to be identified and proceeded against in the interest of

rule of law, public health and environment. It was further observed that

the licensed service providers must transport septage to the Sewage

Pumping Stations (SPS) and pre-notified STPs having facilities to treat the

septage. This was also expected to be duly recorded with proper manifest

system. If septage was found disposed illegally, there must be mechanism

to report and take action. Accordingly, the Tribunal constituted a joint

Committee headed by Justice S.P. Garg, former Judge, Delhi High Court

with nominees of CPC B, DPCC and Chief Engineer, DJB to study the

situation and suggest appropriate monitoring mechanism to prevent such

incidents. 4. In pursuance of above, report of the joint Committee has been filed

on 18.12.2022 which refers to 10 meetings held with the representatives of CPC B, DPCC, DJB, Divisional Commissioner (Revenue) and various

other departments and consideration of the following challenges:- (d) Though there was a Septage Management Committee
 headed by District Magistrate in each district, no
 stringent steps were being taken by them to monitor the
 unauthorized dumping of septage. (e) Designated Sewage Pumping Stations (SPSs)/Sewage
 Treatment Plants (STPs) were not being maintained
 properly. Many of them did not have CCTV cameras. Proper records were not being maintained for receiving
 the septage. (f) There was lack of awareness among the public at large
 about the vendors engaged by DJB for collection
 transport and disposal of septage. They were also not
 aware about the rates/charges to be paid to the vendors. (g) Dumping of septage in the drains was rampant and
 frequent without any check by the agencies. The
 situation was disturbing and alarming." 5. There were deliberations on above aspects in 10 meetings, apart from

considering report of Delhi Police dated 10.11.2022 on the subject and also

inputs from other sources. Finally, the Committee has made following

suggestions and recommendations:- 6. We have heard Learned Counsel present and further considered the

matter. In absence of any contra submission or suggestion, we find it

appropriate to accept the suggestions and recommendations of the

Committee based on deliberations and interaction with the statutory

authorities and the stakeholders. Accordingly, we accept the report and

issue directions in terms of suggestions and recommendations of the

Committee, mentioned above. Chief Secretary, Delhi may take follow up

action in coordination with all concerned departments/authorities. 7. Apart from the above, it may be noted that septage management is

critical in localities without sewer system. It is necessary at such locations

to ensure desludging of septic tanks and to either load them in sewage

pumping stations or take them to the pre-identified sewage treatment

plants. Where septic tanks exist, the same need to be connected to sewer

lines terminating to STP. This requires identified/authorised service

providers to carry septage to destined locations. If there is violation,

offending vehicles need be confiscated and released only on stringent

conditions, with monetary sanctions. 7 8. In view of above, apart from acting on the recommendations of the

Committee, DJB may identify and notify localities not having sewerage

within four months so that follow proper septage disposal practices can be

enforced there. The localities with sewerage system also need to notify

information about septage management. 9. Further, we find it necessary to issue clarification/direction under Section 15 (4) read with Section 33 of the NGT Act on the issue of pre-

existing jurisdiction of the DPCC under the Water and Air Acts to levy

compensation for violation of water quality and air quality norms and

jurisdiction of Delhi Police in the light of suggestion of the Committee. Delhi

Water Board Septage Management Regulation, 2018 have been framed by

the DJB under Section 109 of Delhi Water Board Act, 1998 but

notwithstanding such specific regulations, overlapping powers to take

action against unauthorised dumping of septage at public places must

continue to be exercised by Delhi Police and DPCC. This is necessary

having regard to inadequacy of compliance mechanism under the

Regulations, as found by the Committee and its adverse impact on

recipient environment and public health. The Chief Secretary, Delhi may file an action taken report within four

months with the Registrar General of this Tribunal by e-mail at judicial- [email protected] preferably in the form of searchable PDF/OCR Support PDF

and not in the form of Image PDF. If found necessary, the Registrar General

may place the report before the Bench, for further directions. Subject to above, the application is disposed of.

 We place on record our gratitude and appreciation for the

contribution of the Committee in handling the complex situation. 8 A copy of this order be forwarded by email to the Chief Secretary,

Delhi and Justice S.P. Garg, former Judge, Delhi High Court. Adarsh Kumar Goel, CP

 Sudhir Agarwal, JM

 Prof. A. Senthil Vel, EM
December 21, 2022
Original Application No. 365/2021
SN 9