­ 

 The parties are on loggerheads over the right to the use of mark 

'Force' as the part of their respective trade mark/trade name. The T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 1 of 122 2 plaintiff claims him to be entitled to use the trade mark/name 'FORCE' 

whereas the defendant is staking its claim to the trade mark 'FORCE 

10'. Pleadings 2. The claim of the plaintiff is that he is the sole proprietor of M/s 

Force Footwear Company, Shoe market, Agra 282003. The plaintiff 

has propounded his cause of action on the following bundle of facts:­ (i). The plaintiff is engaged in the business of manufacturing 

 and marketing of footwears. He is the Proprietor of trade mark 

 FORCE in relation to the foot wears. The word FORCE is also 

 forming a material part of the plaintiff's trade name viz. FORCE 

 FOOTWEAR COMPANY. (ii). The predecessors of the plaintiff adopted the trade mark 

 FORCE in relation to foot wears and also the trading style 

 FORCE FOOTWEAR COMPANY in the year 1947 and 

 continuously used the same up to 01.06.1984 where after the said 

 trade mark along with goodwill of the firm was assigned to the 

 plaintiff vide deed of assignment dated 01.06.1984 and thereafter 

 the plaintiff is continuously using the said trade mark. T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 2 of 122 3 (iii). Sh. Ahmed Miyan who is also the father of the plaintiff is 

 the predecessor of the plaintiff company. (iv). The business carried on by the predecessors and thereafter 

 by the plaintiff company is an extensive one and the goods 

 bearing the said trade mark have been practically distributed in 

 major parts of the country. The trade mark FORCE of the 

 plaintiff has become a distinctive indicium in relation to 

 plaintiff's goods and business. The business and goodwill of the 

 plaintiff are dependent upon the said trade mark FORCE and the 

 same has become sufficiently distinctive in the trade to be 

 capable of protection. (v). The trade mark FORCE of the plaintiff is duly registered 

 under no. 214292­B in relation to foot wears in class­25 of the Fourth Schedule of the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958 . 

 The said trade mark is registered w.e.f.13.03.1963; it has been 

 renewed from time to time and its registration is still valid and 

 subsisting. (vi). The plaintiff has already filed application on form TM­24 

 dated 29.06.1984 in the Trade Marks Office, New Delhi for T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 3 of 122 4 assignment of the said trade mark in his favour in view of 

 assignment deed dated 01.06.1984. The said assignment 

 application is still pending. (vii). The plaintiff as such has acquired exclusive rights to the 

 use of the said trade mark within the meaning of Section 28 of 

 the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958. (viii). Plaintiff's trade mark/trading style has already become 

 distinctive and associated with the aforementioned goods of the 

 plaintiff on account of its long, continuous, extensive and 

 exclusive user thereof. The goods bearing the said trade mark are 

 highly demanded in the markets on account of standard quality 

 and precision. The public at large associates the said trade mark 

 with the goods of the plaintiff alone and that the plaintiff has 

 been using the said trade mark since the year 1947 exclusively 

 and to the exclusion of others. The products of the plaintiff have 

 acquired tremendous goodwill and vast reputation as a high 

 quality product originating exclusively from the plaintiff and that 

 the plaintiff has already built up a valuable trade under the said 

 trade mark. T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 4 of 122 5 (ix). The plaintiff has widely advertised the said trade mark 

 through advertisement in newspapers, distribution of trade 

 literature, display boards, calendars and trade novelties. The 

 plaintiff has already spent substantial and sizable sum of money 

 on the publicity of the said trade mark and in consequence 

 thereof, the said trade mark enjoys enduring reputation in the 

 market. (x). The defendant is engaged in the business of manufacturing 

 and marketing of footwear and has adopted the trade mark 

 FORCE­10 label in respect thereof. The defendant is not the 

 proprietor of trade mark FORCE­10 in relation to foot wears. 

 The defendant is marketing foot wears under the trade mark 

 FORCE­10 in Delhi and other parts of the country in a 

 clandestine and surreptitious manner i.e. without issuance of any 

 invoices against sale. The plaintiff and the defendant operate in 

 the same line of business and in the same areas and markets in 

 Delhi and other parts of the country. The said trade mark of the 

 defendant is identical with and deceptively similar to the trade 

 mark of the plaintiff and as such is bound to cause deception and T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 5 of 122 6 confusion in the normal course of business activities of the 

 plaintiff and the defendant. The plaintiff has tremendous 

 goodwill in the business. The plaintiff is always referred to as 

 FORCE HOUSE and his aforementioned goods, therefore, any 

 person not knowing clearly the relationship between the parties 

 to this action is bound to be confused by the defendant's use of 

 trade mark FORCE­10 label. Such person might well do business 

 with the defendant thinking that he is dealing with the plaintiff or 

 that some vital and strong links exist between the plaintiff and 

 the defendant. (xi). The defendant adopted the impugned trade mark 

 FORCE­10 in relation to foot wears out of greed and with a view 

 to take advantage and to trade upon the reputation of the 

 plaintiff and further with a view to cause deception and 

 confusion in the markets and to pass off his goods and business 

 as that of the plaintiff. The unwary purchasers are bound to be 

 deceived in dealing and in purchasing the defendant's goods 

 under the impression that it is emanating from the plaintiff's 

 source. There is a likelihood of confusion between the plaintiff T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 6 of 122 7 and the defendant resulting from the sameness, nearness and 

 similarity of trade marks. There is an obvious probability of 

 confusion. (xii). The defendant is guilty of violating the statutory rights of 

 the plaintiff by infringing and passing off his goods as that of the 

 plaintiff under the impugned trade mark FORCE­10 Label. The 

 defendant is fully aware about the business activities of the 

 plaintiff under the trade mark FORCE as well as that of his trade 

 mark being used since the year 1947. The defendant is 

 subsequent in adoption and use of the impugned trade mark 

 FORCE­10. (xiii). The defendant fully knowing the proprietorship of trade 

 mark FORCE in favour of the plaintiff filed a rectification 

 petition in Delhi High Court being CO No. 10 of 1998 against 

 the registered trade mark no. 214282­B of the plaintiff and that 

 the said rectification petition is filed under Section 56 of the 

 Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958. The said petition is 

 still pending. The defendant in the said rectification petition has 

 claimed adoption and use of trade mark FORCE­10 since the T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 7 of 122 8 year 1990. The said fact clearly illustrates that the adoption and 

 user of trade mark FORCE­10 by the defendant is much 

 subsequent to the adoption, use and registration of trade mark 

 FORCE in the hands of the plaintiff. The defendant is also 

 pirating the plaintiff's trading style. (xiv).Thus the adoption of trade mark FORCE­10 is 

 improper, sinister, ill­motivated, dishonest and fraudulent 

 and that the defendant by such questionable adoption of 

 the said trade mark is disseminating deception and 

 confusion in the market. The plaintiff is suffering losses 

 both in business and in reputation because of the very 

 inferior quality of goods under the impugned trade mark 

 FORCE­10. The loss and reputation is incapable of being 

 assessed in monetary terms. The public is being deceived 

 and defrauded by the impugned activities of the defendant 

 and that the defendant is doing so in order to make illegal 

 gains. The defendant has thus invaded the statutory as 

 well as common law rights of the plaintiff by adopting the 

 said trade mark FORCE­10 label. The defendant is T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 8 of 122 9 violating the statutory rights of the plaintiff and is also 

 guilty of passing off his goods as that of the plaintiff. 3. The defendant had been served with the summons of the suit and 

posed a challenge to the suit by filing its written statement in which it 

questioned the cause of action on which the plaintiff has instituted his 

suit. The defendant raised the following preliminary objections:­ (i). Plaintiff has no locus stand to file the present suit. As per 

 the plaint the plaintiff is the owner of the registered trade mark 

 FORCE under no. 214282­B which is alleged to have been 

 assigned by the registered proprietor thereof who is stated to be 

 the father of the plaintiff. The assignment deed relied upon by 

 the plaintiff is not legal and has in any case not been allowed by 

 the Registrar of Trade Marks for the reasons best known to the 

 plaintiff. According to the plaintiff, he has filed the application 

 in form TM­24 on 29.06.1984, which is wrong. In fact, no such 

 application has been filed. (ii). The suit against the defendant does not lie as the defendant 

 is the registered proprietor of FORCE­10 which is being 

 objected to by the plaintiff in the present suit. The said T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 9 of 122 10 registration is under no. 553998 which is valid, subsisting and in 

 force. Thus the defendant is having the statutory right to use 

 FORCE­10. The defendant is protected under Section 28 of the 

 Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958. Besides, two more 

 applications of the trade mark FORCE 10 from Liberty have 

 been advertised in the Trade Marks Journals under no. 554196 

 and 554494. (iii). The suit suffers from great and unexplained delay, latches 

 and acquiescence. The plaintiff had the knowledge of the use of 

 FORCE 10 by the defendant right from 1990, when the 

 defendant started using the same. The plaintiff had the complete 

 knowledge of not only of his own but also through his dealers 

 etc. (iv). The defendant has conducted huge sales worth crores of 

 rupees under FORCE 10 and has spent crores of rupees on 

 advertisement and promotion of FORCE 10. The defendant has 

 even sponsored many programs on television and otherwise. The 

 defendant can not be said to be passing off the goods of the 

 plaintiff, even taking the case of plaintiff at face value. The T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 10 of 122 11 defendant is well established in the footwear business and is 

 known for intrinsic quality in the market. (v). The defendant has already filed the rectification petition 

 against the registered trade mark no. 214282­B which has been 

 relied upon by the plaintiff. The registration which has been 

 relied upon by the plaintiff is under challenge. As such no suit 

 lies and in any case the suit is liable to be stayed. (vi). The plaintiff, or for that matter his predecessor, has not 

 used FORCE as a trade mark. Plaintiff and his alleged 

 predecessor have been using the different trade marks. On the 

 other hand, the defendant is using the mark FORCE 10 only 

 upon the sports foot wears. The plaintiff has not been 

 manufacturing and/or selling the sports footwear. As such also 

 there can not be any confusion in the market as alleged. (vii). The plaintiff is not a manufacturer of the shoes/footwear. 

 He is merely a reseller of the goods. (viii). This Court has no territorial jurisdiction to entertain and 

 try the suit. (ix). The suit has not been filed by the proper and authorised T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 11 of 122 12 person and has not been properly signed and verified. (x). The suit has not been properly valued for the purpose of 

 Court Fee and jurisdiction and no proper Court Fee has been 

 paid. (xi). The suit suffers from the infirmity of non joinder of 

 necessary party namely Ahmed Miyan. (xii). The registration under no. 214282­B of the trade mark 

 FORCE of which the plaintiff claims to be the exclusive under is 

 in part B. While the defendant is the registered proprietor of the 

 trade mark FORE 10 in part A under the registration No. 

 553998. As such also the present suit does not lie. 4. The defendant denied the material factual averments on which 

the plaintiff his founded his cause of action in above terms and prayed 

for the dismissal of the suit. Issues 5. Vide the minutes of proceedings dated 19.01.2009, on the basis 

of the pleadings, the following issues have been framed:­ i) Whether the defendant is guilty of infringing the 

 registered trademark of the plaintiff under number T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 12 of 122 13 214282­B in relation to footwear in class 25? If so, 

 its effect? OPP ii) Whether the defendant is guilty of passing off 

 the goods of the plaintiff by manufacturing the 

 goods under the trademark FORCE 10? If so, its 

 effect? OPP iii) If issue no. 1 or issue no. 2 or both of them 

 is/are proved in affirmative, whether the plaintiff is 

 entitled to a decree for delivery up as prayed in 

 prayer clause iii of the plaint? OPP iv) Whether the plaintiff is entitled to a decree of 

 rendition of accounts as prayed for in prayer clause 

 iv of the plaint? OPP v) Relief. Witnesses Examined 6. The plaintiff has examined 7 witnesses . 7. The defendant has examined 2 witnesses. 8. I have heard Shri S. K. Bansal, Ld. Counsel for the plaintiff and 

Shri Manish Biala, Ld. Counsel for the defendant. In the course of T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 13 of 122 14 arguments ld. counsel have copiously read from the pleadings and the 

evidence on record. A catena of case law has been cited by the Ld. 

Counsel in support of their submissions. The defendant has also filed 

written submissions. Arguments of plaintiff 9. Shri Bansal has opened his arguments with the statement that big 

fish cannot be permitted to eat the small fish. 10. FORCE is a registered trade mark and is also part of the trade 

name of the plaintiff. The plaintiff has sued for infringement as well 

as for passing off. The mark of defendant is FORCE­10. The issue of 

deceptive similarity is an admitted fact. 11. Plaintiff is the owner of trade mark FORCE and the trade name 

in the name and style of FORCE FOOT WEAR Company. The 

plaintiff has acquired the trade mark by deed of assignment dated 

01.06.1984 (Ex. PW 1/4). The user of the plaintiff is since 1947 

through his predecessor/father. The sales figures on record have been 

from 1982. 12. The plaintiff who appeared as PW­1 has not been cross 

examined vis­a­vis the assignment deed, whereas, the other witnesses T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 14 of 122 15 viz. his brothers have been cross examined by defendant regarding the 

assignment deed. 13. Rights flow from the factum of assignment. Recording of 

assignment by the Authority concerned only records the same and it 

does not and can not confer the rights. The plaintiff had applied for the 

recording of assignment deed with the RTM but the same has not yet 

been completed. There is evidence regarding this through the witness 

PW­7. 14. The allegations of passing off are in para 9 and 10 of affidavit 

Ex. PW 1/A. The allegations of infringement are in para 6 of affidavit 

Ex. PW 1/A. Ex. PW 1/1 is trade mark of labels of plaintiff (four 

pages), Ex. PW 1/ 2, trade mark no. 214282B dated 13.03.1963 in 

respect of shoes and Footwear in name of Sh. Ahmad Miyan father of 

plaintiff trading as FORCE FOOTWEAR Company and Ex. PW 1/ 3 

(colly) are the registration certificate and renewal certificates. Ex. PW 

1/ 4 (collectively) is the assignment deed dated 01.06.1984 (assignment 

of trade mark along with goodwill of the Firm, FORCE FOOTWEAR 

Company). Ex. PW 1/5 is a hand written statement showing year wise 

sale from 1982 to 1999. The same is un­impugned as PW1 has not been T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 15 of 122 16 cross examined by defendant. Ex. PW 1/6 (collectively) are the various 

bills. 15. The definition of trade mark includes the trade name as well and 

even on the basis of trade name rival trade mark can be restrained. 16. The publication of advertisement in Deccan Chronicle dated 

11.09.1985 is depicting trade name and trade mark of the plaintiff as 

well as the goods shows the wide name of the plaintiff. Documents at 

page 69, 70 of Guntur and 71 of Hyderabad shows the wide reach of 

the plaintiff. Other documents from Baglore, Vijayawada, 

Visakhapatnam also depict the same. Page no. 89 dispatch of C­Forms 

shows that plaintiff is also liable to pay sales tax. Document at page no. 

91 shows t hat a distributor of liberty shoes in Trivendram is willing to 

sale the products of plaintiff on wholesale and retail basis. 17. Plaintiff has proved on record a number of documents showing 

consistent use of the trade mark and trade name. Ex. PW 1/9 (colly) 

are various documents received from various government agencies 

pertaining to income tax, sale tax etc and referred to the trade name of 

plaintiff. Some of the documents pertain to year 1962 & 1962. 18. Ld. Counsel for plaintiff has read the cross examination of PW­1 T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 16 of 122 17 and stated that the case of plaintiff has been reinforced in the cross 

examination. The witness has not been questioned about the 

assignment and therefore that part of evidence and other aspects which 

have not been impugned in the cross examination are deemed to have 

been accepted as correct. These various aspects are trade name, income 

tax, sale tax, notices/assessment, invoices and bills. The merits of 

registration of plaintiff's trade mark have not been challenged. 19. The sales figures of plaintiff have not been challenged and the 

cross examination of PW­1 and so also the various ITRs/sales Tax 

documents and assessment orders tendered by PW­1 in his evidence. 

These documents corroborate the statement filed by plaintiff vis­a­vis 

his sales figures and thus by necessary implications established the 

same. 20. The evidence could either be positive or could be negative (non 

traversed deposition/documents). 21. Witness PW­2 has been cross examined on the point of payment 

of consideration and the witness has stated that it has not been paid in 

his presence at the time of singing of assignment deed. This gives no 

mileage to the defendant as it is the factum of execution of assignment T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 17 of 122 18 deed which is relevant and section 91 and 92 of the Evidence Act are 

attracted. Even if for the sake of arguments the consideration is not 

paid but stipulated, the non payment does not vitiate the agreement and 

at the most gives a right of recover to the assignment. The witness has 

identified the signatures as well as the signatories. 22. The examination of PW­5 strengthens and supports other 

witnesses and corroborated them in material particular. It sails in the 

same boat as far as the testimony of PW­2 is concerned. 23. Some contradictions or omissions in evidence are bound to arise 

with the passage of time. These are very natural to a truthful witness. 

The deed of assignment when put to witnesses PW­2 and PW­5 in 

cross examination had been of 28 years of age. The fact that there are 

minor contradictions rather goes to speak about the genuineness and 

credibility of evidence of these two witnesses. These two witnesses 

are the witnesses to the preparation of the documents and therefore 

their testimony or apparent contradictions in fact are immaterial. 24. PW­5 states in this cross examination about thorough discussion 

of the document of assignment between the parties goes to show 

consensus­ad­idem. T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 18 of 122 19 25. These two witnesses have not been cross examined if there is a 

dispute between the plaintiff and his brother or any other interested 

person vis­a­vis the deed of assignment. This omission is fatal to the 

defendant. 26. As far as the deed of assignment is concerned reading the 

testimony of PW1, PW2 and PW5 together goes to establish the deed 

of assignment and the defendant failed to impugn the same. 27. Invoice no. 386/1 dated 16.01.1984 is referred to. Another 

invoice no. 2 dated 1.04.1989 both bear the trade mark of plaintiff in 

the particular style. 28. Brand is something which is much more than a trade mark as it 

may include trade mark, trade name and emotions/values of the holder. 29. DW­1, Sh. Adarsh Gupta, claims himself to be a partner of the 

defendant concerned. His existence as such has not been proved on 

record and he is merely a ghost witness. Para 2 to 6 of his oral 

evidence as contained in his affidavit Ex.DW1/A are only boasts or 

hyperbolic statements. 30. In the written statement in para no. 11 of reply defendant has 

taken the stand that it has been using the mark FORCE 10 since 1990. T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 19 of 122 20 In para 6 of Ex.DW1/A the third lines reads as: "Atleast since the 

year1990". Further in his cross examination on 07.08.2012 the witness 

states that the trade mark has adopted in the year 1991. These variable 

statements by themselves place a question mark as regards the date of 

usage of the mark by the defendant. The 'adoption' and 'usage' are 

quite different things. 31. Paras no. 9, 10 and 11 of Ex.DW1/A have been read over to 

point out the infirmities in the same and it is submitted that these 

discredit the testimony of DW­1. 32. The defendant has placed reliance on certain computer generated 

third party documents. These documents cannot be relied upon for 

want of a certificate under Section 65 B of the Evidence Act. 33. The evidence of DW­1 as recorded on 25.05.2012 by way of 

cross examination goes to show that the same establishes that there are 

no accounts or tax returns of defendant regarding its trade mark in 

issue. The witness DW­1 has been washed away in his cross 

examination. The cross examination also shows that the evidence of 

witness is based on hearsay. It also shows that even if it is presumed 

that the mark FORCE10 was adopted in the year 1990 no market T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 20 of 122 21 survey or search was done by the defendant. It also shows that at a 

particular point of time (date not mentioned) the defendant had the 

knowledge of the plaintiff's trade mark yet it continued with the trade 

mark FORCE10. The bills are only from 2003 onwards and they are 

computer generated and not proved in accordance with law. 34. The witness DW­2 has admitted in his cross examination that the 

defendant has hundreds of distributors/dealers spread over India which 

goes to establish the document tendered in evidence by the plaintiff 

regarding inquires from one of the distributors/dealer of plaintiff in 

Kerala showing interest in the defendant's products. 35. The DW­1 in his cross examination dated 25.05.2012 has stated 

that there are about 14­15 partners in defendant concern. This shows 

that he is not aware or his statement is not true. 36. At many places when DW­1 has been cross examined he has 

stated that he can produce the documents. First of all it was the duty 

of the defendant to produce the documents on which it sought to rely 

and it is not for the court to ask him to produce the documents to prove 

his own case. 37. The cross examination of DW­1 shows that the search in the T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 21 of 122 22 office of RTM and market search are mutually destructive statement. 38. There is no evidence to prove the sale under the trade mark by 

defendant from 1991 and at the most the sale documents are from 2003 

onwards. CA certificates do not make out any credible evidence in 

itself. 39. In his cross examination dated 07.08.2012 the witness DW­1 had 

admitted 'It is correct that the mark FORCE and FORCE 10 are 

identical and similar'. Goods are also same/similar. Thus the point of 

plaintiff is clinched. 40. Para 10 of the Ex.DW1/A and the cross examination on 

07.08.2012 show apparent contradiction. Cross examination of DW­1 

in the later part of 07.08.2012 is self evident on the aspect of search by 

the defendant regarding plaintiff's mark and appreciating the same in 

totality shows the hollowness on the defendant's part. 41. No defence of lack of territorial jurisdiction has been taken by 

defendant no. 1 in his cross examination. The later part of cross 

examination dated 07.08.2012 of DW­1 clinches the aspect of 

territorial jurisdiction. Document Ex.DW1/P2 has been admitted by 

DW­1 and this shows the sale in Fatehpuri, Delhi. T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 22 of 122 23 42. Ex. DW1/P1 shows that the trade mark of plaintiff as a registered 

trade mark. 43. The case law relied upon by the plaintiff has been categorized as 

to the general principles of civil law as to the appreciation of pleadings, 

evidence and documents. The other category deal with the trade mark 

aspects. 44. The law laid down in R.V.E. Venkatachala Gounder Vs. 

Arulmigu Viswesaraswami and V.P. Temple and Another AIR 

2003 SC 4548 to cite that non­challenge in cross­examination is fatal 

and thus one gets corroboration by one's own statements. In civil cases 

high preponderance of probability is enough. There is difference 

between burden of proof and onus of proof. Burden never shifts 

whereas onus is a continuous shifting process. Once high degree of 

probability established onus shifts on defendants. Defendants never 

discharged its onus. High degree of probability is enough even when 

there is no direct evidence. It is submitted that in the instant case direct 

and high degree of evidence establishing high probability is available. 45. Case of Syed Askari Hadi Ali Augustine Imam and Another 

versus State (Delhi Administration) and Anr. (2009) 5 SCC 528 has T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 23 of 122 24 been relied upon to bring home the point that standard of proof in civil 

and criminal cases is different. In civil cases preponderances of 

evidence is enough. 46. If there is no cross examination on a particular point by the 

opposite party it must be deemed to have accepted truth of the 

statement. On this aspect law pronounced in Satyendra Kumar 

Sharma (Shri) vs. Shri Jitender Kudsia 2005 V AD (DELHI) 177 

has been relied upon. 47. Plaintiff relies upon Azizullah Khan and Another versus 

Ghulam Hussein and Another AIR 1924 SIND 97 to cite that 

awareness can be imputed to an attesting witness to the nature of the 

documents specially when the parties to the document and the attesting 

witness are close relatives. This argument is to establish the Deed of 

Assignment. 48. The case law of Hari Om Vs. State (N.C.T .) 2010 III AD 

(DELHI) 504 has been relied upon to submit that minor contradictions 

are not material. Approach of the court ought to be to evaluate 

testimony as a whole and to see whether it appears to be true or not and 

whether witness truthful and trust worthy. Minor discrepancies are T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 24 of 122 25 natural, especially when witness comes from lower strata of society 

and has no temperament to match skills of the experienced lawyers. 49. In Bharwada Bhoginbhai Hirjibhai V/s State of Gujarat AIR 

1983 S.C 753 it has been held that too much importance cannot be 

given to minor discrepancies. Discrepancies which do not go to the 

root of the matter and shake the basic version of the witness, therefore, 

cannot be annexed with undue importance. More so, when the all 

important "Probabilities­factor echo in favour of the version narrated 

by the witness. The Court has given detailed reasons for not giving 

importance to minor discrepancies. As held in Leela Ram (D) through 

Duli Chand V/s State of Haryana and Anr. AIR 1999 S.C.3717 

evidence is to be considered from the point of view of trustworthiness 

and must inspire confidence. Thus the minor infirmities in the 

testimonies of the PWs in the present case do not shatter their 

testimony. In furtherance of the arguments reliance is placed upon Umapada Kayal v/s State of West Bengal . (2010) I SCC 161 and 

Pandurang Chandrakant Mhatre & Anr. v/s State of Maharashtra. 

(2009) 10 SCC 773 wherein it has been held that the witnesses cross 

examined on irrelevant issues and no cross examination in respect of T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 25 of 122 26 actual incidence must goes against the adversary. 50. Written documents cannot be impugned by oral evidence. In Roop Kumar Vs. Mohan Thedani 2003 (3) SCALE 611 it has been 

held that written documents can be proved/disproved only by writings 

itself. Section 91 and 92 of Evidence Act have been relied upon. 51. On the aspects relevant to the trade mark subject first case cited 

is Cinni Foundation vs. Raj Kumar Sah & Sons & Anr. 2009 (41) 

PTC 320 (DEL). It has been held that acquisition of title in Trade 

Mark is by virtue of assignment deed and not dependant upon 

assignment being registered. Registration of assignment is only to 

place on record the fact that title has been created. Rgistration by itself 

does not create title which already stands created on execution of 

assignment. Assignee immediately on assignment, i.e., by writing 

acquires rights. It is the act of parties which vests the title and not the 

registration thereof. On this aspect other case relied upon is M/s Modi 

Threads Limited vs. M/s Som Soot Gola Factory and Anr. AIR 

1992 DELHI 4 wherein it has been held that during pendency of 

assignment Recordial proceedings, assignee can sue for 

infringement/passing off. Another case law which follows is Classic T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 26 of 122 27 Equipments (P) Ltd. Vs. Johnson Enterprises and Others 2009 (41) 

PTC 385 (DEL) which has pronounced that once assigned, assignor 

ceases to have rights. Collector of Central Excise Vs. Vikshara 

Trading & Invest. P. Ltd. 2003 (27) PTC 603 (SC) has been relied 

upon to cite that assignment not registered not fatal 52. The case of Laxmikant V. Patel Vs. Chetanbhat Shah & Anr. 2002 (24) PTC 1 (SC) has been relied upon to cite that trade Mark 

includes trade name. For passing off prior user and goodwill is 

necessary. Court will protect goodwill. Passing off will lie when 

defendants trade mark/trade name is calculated to deceive and divert 

business. Cause of action cannot be limited to the date of proceedings 

only. Court will have regard to the way business may be carried out in 

future. Probability of confusion is enough. Competitor in same 

business under same name/imitating name would cause injury. Law 

does not permit any one to carry on his business in such a way as to 

persuade customers into believing that goods or services belong to 

someone else or are associated therewith. Fraudulent intent of 

defendant is not material. Two basic considerations (a) honesty and fair 

play are basic policies of the world. (b) If deceptive/similar names are T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 27 of 122 28 adopted confusion would arise, customers would be diverted and injury 

would result. 53. Law pronounced in Heinz Italia & Anr. vs. Dabur India Ltd. 2007 (35) PTC 1 (SC) has been relied upon to submit that plaintiff has 

to establish prior user and registration prior in point of time is 

irrelevant. On similar lines follows the case of Pearl Appliances 

Private Limited vs. Jay Engineering Works Ltd., PTC (Suppl ) (1) 

390 (Del) wherein the plaintiff being the prior user and the defendant 

prior in registration since 1974 whereas the plaintiff subsequent in 

registration since 1983 but the defendant subsequent in use, the 

plaintiff was granted injunction. 54. In M/s Hitachi Ltd., Vs. Ajay Kumar Agarwal & Ors 1996 

PTC (16) (DB) (DEL) DB, the principles of passing off have been 

discussed. It was a case Hitachi versus Hitachi in which the scripting 

style and language of trade marks were different and injunction was 

granted. It was also held that material date of accrual of cause of action 

is when plaintiff became aware of defendants use. B.K. Engineering 

Company Vs. U.B.H.I. Enterprises (Regd.) AIR 1985 DELHI 210 

is a case of B.K versus B.K. - 81. B.K. Engineering had been the trade T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 28 of 122 29 name of plaintiff; B.K.-81 trade mark of defendant and U.B.H.I - trade 

name of defendant. It was found to be a case of marks being 

deceptively similar to trade name of plaintiff. The plea of delay and 

acquiescence was also rejected stating that there was nothing to show 

that plaintiff encouraged defendant to go ahead with the impugned 

trade mark. Defendant's arguments that B.K. is his mother's name did 

not find favour with the Court and it has held to be untenable. It has 

been held that likelihood of deception enough; trading must not only be 

honest but must not even be unintentionally be unfair. 55. Reliance has been placed upon N.R. Dongre and Others Vs. 

Whirlpool Corporation and Others AIR 1995 DELHI 300 to cite 

that passing off can be maintained even against a registered trade mark. 

A registered trade mark can be restrained in a passing off action 

[ Section 27 (2) ] based on prior user. Case of P.M. Diesels vs. Thukral 

Mechanical Works AIR 1988 Delhi 282 is not followed as Section 

27(2) not considered therein. 56. In Elolora Industries Vs. Banarasi Dass Goela AIR 1980 

DELHI 254 plaintiff's trade mark ELORA was confronted vis­à­vis 

defendant's trade name ELLORA INDUSTRIES. It was held that T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 29 of 122 30 passing off is made out. The case discussed the entire law of passing 

off. 57. Relied upon is Girnar Tea and Another Vs. Brooke Bond 

(India) Ltd. 1990 (2) Arb. L.R 149 (BOM) (DB) in which it has been 

held that the persons to be deceived are purchasers of the goods; 

purpose of comparison is to determine essential feature of the mark; 

plaintiff protected even if for the moment a trader; plaintiff cannot be 

confined to present mode; sales and reputation cannot be confined to 

existing customers. It was held that the plaintiff is to be protected even 

if small dealer compared to giant defendant. Defendant's adoption was 

fraudulent as there is no explanation as to why he adopted. Defendant 

was aware of plaintiffs mark at the time of adoption. 58. Kumar Electric Works & Another Vs. Olympia Home 

Appliances (P) Ltd. 1992 (1) DELHI LAWYER 375 has been relied 

upon to cite that small fish can be protected against big fish; big fish 

cannot eat small fish. It is immaterial even if the defendant is a 

corporate giant. 59. Reliance has been placed upon M/s Hindustan Pencils Pvt. 

Ltd., Vs. M/s India Stationery Products Co., and Anr. AIR 1990 T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 30 of 122 31 DELHI 19 wherein it has been held that circumstances attending to the 

adoption of the mark by the defendant at the first instance are of 

importance. If user at inception is tainted, it cannot be purified 

subsequently. Revlon Inc., Vs. Sarita Manufacturing Co. 1997 PTC 

(17) 394 (DEL) has been relied upon to cite that if defendant for no 

good reason adopts plaintiffs prior marks adoption is dishonest and 

injunction to follow. Adverse inference to be drawn that it wants to 

cash on plaintiff's name and reputation. Even if defendant honest 

concurrent user injunction to issue even if inordinate delay. Interest of 

general public which is third party in the suit to be protected. Infringers 

who are aware of plaintiff's prior mark must be aware of the 

consequences that would follow. Any use by defendant after becoming 

aware of plaintiffs prior rights is at his own risk and peril. 60. The law pronounced in Bal Pharma vs. Centaur Laboratories 2002 (24) PTC 226 (Bom) (DB) has been cited to show that it is 

necessary for defendant to take out search. If no search is taken out 

prior to adoption and use, defendant's user is neither honest nor 

concurrent. If the defendant subsequently notices prior plaintiff's 

rights he cannot complain­ (a) at first instance defendant negligent (b) T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 31 of 122 32 had search taken out and found marked belongs to another and he 

continues to use it, it is at his risk. Arguments of Defendant 61. The suit filed by the plaintiff is a counterblast to the rectification 

petition filed by the defendant in the year 1998, which fact has been 

very well admitted by the plaintiff in para 11 of the plaint. Thereafter, 

the proceedings which took place between the parties before the 

different Forums are as under:­ 

 Date Details of Proceedings
 May The defendant filed rectification/cancellation petition 

 1998 before the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi for the 

 cancellation of the mark "FORCE" of the plaintiff 

 under the Registration No. 214282­B in class 25.

 27th July The plaintiff filed the present suit against the defendant 

 1999 before the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi. 14th Nov. The plaintiff also filed a rectification/cancellation 

 2000 petition for the cancellation of the Mark "FORCE­10" 62. The Writ Petition bearing WP(C) No. 946/2011 filed by the 

defendant against the order dated 21st December 2010 passed by the 

IPAB is still pending before the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi and the 

next date of hearing in the said Writ Petition is 20th February 2013. 63. The present suit was filed by the plaintiff in the year 1999 and as 

such is governed by the provisions of the Trade and Merchandise 

Marks Act, 1958 . The Trade Marks Act, 1999 is not applicable in view 

of the Section 159 (4) of the Trade Mark, 1999 wherein it has been 

prescribed that "subject to the provisions of section 100 and 

notwithstanding anything contained in any other provision of this Act, 

any legal proceeding pending in any Court at the commencement of 

this Act may be continued in that court as if this Act had not been 

passed". 64. While dismissing the application of the plaintiff filed under 

Order 39 Rule 1 and 2, this Court very well opined that the relief T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 34 of 122 35 related to the grant of temporary injunction for infringement of trade 

mark cannot be granted to the plaintiff. The Ld. Predecessor also 

opined that the material placed on record including the bills/cash 

memos/vouchers and advertisements in newspapers etc. do not show 

that the plaintiff is manufacturing or marketing shoes under the trade 

name FORCE. Hence, the plaintiff is not entitled for any relief of 

passing off. 65. The plaintiff has no locus standi to file the present suit. The 

Assignment Deed on the basis of which the plaintiff is claiming to be 

the register proprietor of the trade mark FORCE under No. 214282­B 

is not legal. The plaintiff is not the proper and authorized person and 

the suit has not been properly signed and verified. The suit also suffers 

from the infirmity of non­joinder of necessary party namely Ahmed 

Miyan. The defendant has challenged the Assignment Deed of the 

plaintiff which is exhibited PW­1/4 on the following grounds:­ a) Not a registered document. It is merely a document which is 

 signed by the plaintiff and his brother before filing the present 

 suit. It is not even Notarized and attested by any public witness. T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 35 of 122 36 st b) The alleged Assignment Deed was executed on 1 June 1984 and 

 immediately thereafter, the plaintiff filed a TM­24 before the 

 Trade Marks Registry on 29th June 1984 for recordal of the 

 plaintiff's name as the registered proprietor of the mark 

 "FORCE" registered under No. 214282­B in place of Mr. 

 Ahmed Miyan. Admittedly, that till date the name of the plain­

 tiff has not been registered in place of Mr. Ahmed Miyan and the 

 said TM­24 application is still pending till date. Section 44 (2) of 

 the Act is clear that in case a document or instrument in respect 

 of which no entry has been made in the register shall not be ad­

 mitted in evidence by the Registrar or any Court in proof title to 

 the trade make by assignment. The plaintiff relies upon the case 

 law laid down in Soundarapandian Match Works Vs. M. Ja­

 yarama Chetty and Others; PTC (Suppl) (2) 145 (Mad) and 

 Cott Beverage Inc., A Georgia Corporation v. Silvassa Bot­

 tling Company; 2004(29) PTC679 (Bom). c) PW­6 was summoned by the plaintiff to prove his registered 

 trade mark. It is important to note that the registered trade mark 

 FORCE exhibited PW­6/A is in the name of Ahmed Miyan and T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 36 of 122 37 moreover, the letter dated 10th August 2011 Ex. PW­6/B written 

 by the Registrar of the Trade Marks Registry has been addressed 

 to Ahmed Miyan instead of the plaintiff. These go to show that 

 plaintiff is not the registered proprietor of the mark "FORCE" 

 registered under No. 214282­B. d) The plaintiff has stated that they filed the recordal of the assign­

 ment deed in 1984 but even after the span of 26 long years, the 

 Registrar has not recorded the name of the plaintiff on the basis 

 of the said Assignment Deed. Moreover, the plaintiff has not 

 placed on record any material to show that he has ever commu­

 nicated with the Trade Marks Registry for the recordal of the 

 said assignment. The plaintiff has also not placed on record any 

 document suggesting that the plaintiff has given any reminder to 

 the Trade Marks Registry asking them why his name is not reg­

 istered in place of Mr. Ahmed Miyan on the basis of the said As­

 signment Deed. e) In light of all these circumstances and as per the provision of Section 44 only an adverse inference can be drawn against the 

 plaintiff and therefore, it can be easily said that the Registrar has T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 37 of 122 38 refused to register the name of the plaintiff in place of Mr. 

 Ahmed Miyan on the basis of the said Assignment Deed exhibit­

 ed as PW­1/4. f) Further, the plaintiff's trademark FORCE was removed from the 

 Trademark Register in 1998 which fact has not been disclosed in 

 the plaint by the plaintiff for reasons best known to him. There­

 after, the Forms TM­12 and TM­13 were filed on 22nd February 

 1999 for renewal and restoration of the trademark removed from 

 the register. It is noteworthy to mention that even at that particu­

 lar time the requests were made in the name of M/s Force 

 Footwear Co. and not in the name of the Plaintiff. Despite mak­

 ing the request, even then no reminder/ communication was sent 

 to the trademark registry with regard to recordal of the Assign­

 ment Deed. This very fact clearly shows that the plaintiff was 

 aware that the Assignment Deed was not considered by the Reg­

 istrar of Trademarks for the reasons best known to him. There­

 fore, the only an adverse inference can be drawn against the 

 plaintiff and the plaintiff cannot claim any proprietary right over 

 the said trademark FORCE on the basis of the Assignment Deed. T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 38 of 122 39 g) The Stamp Duty paid on the said Assignment Deed is not ade­

 quate and, therefore, the same cannot be read as evidence in the 

 present case. The consideration of the said Assignment Deed is 

 Rs.1000/­ and the Stamp Paper of Rs.10 had been used which is 

 1% of the total consideration amount. It is important to note that 

 earlier the Stamp Duty was 8% of the total consideration amount 

 and presently the same is reduced to 6% of the total considera­

 tion amount. It is noteworthy to mention here that the Stamp 

 Duty paid on the Assignment Deed of the trade mark was never 

 1% of the total consideration amount. It is a settled law that in­

 struments not duly stamped are inadmissible in evidence, there­

 fore, the plaintiff is not the registered proprietor of the mark 

 "FORCE" registered under No. 214282­B as claimed by him on 

 the basis of the said Assignment Deed exhibited as PW­1/4. h) The plaintiff has also produced two witnesses, PW­2 and PW­5, 

 to prove the said Assignment Deed dated 1st June 1984. They are 

 the brothers of the plaintiff mentioned as. They have given con­

 trary statements during their cross­examination as the PW­2 has 

 stated that the said Assignment Deed was executed in the pres­ T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 39 of 122 40 ence of other family members whereas the PW­5 has stated that 

 the said Assignment Deed was not executed in the presence of 

 the other family members. The said two witnesses also admitted 

 that no consideration amount was paid by the plaintiff to his fa­

 ther at the time of execution of the said Assignment Deed which 

 also establishes that the said Assignment Deed is forged and fab­

 ricated by the plaintiff to file the present case. The Assignment 

 Deed and reads in one of the paragraph that "in consideration of 

 the amount of Rs.1000 paid by the said Assignee to the Assigner, 

 receipt whereof the said Assignor hereby acknowledges" clearly 

 shows that the said Assignment Deed is also the receipt of Rs.

 1000 which is paid by the plaintiff to Mr. Ahmed Miyan. That 

 PW­2 and PW­5 are also witness to the said receipt whereas in 

 cross­examination they had admitted that no money transaction 

 took place at the time of signing of the Assignment Deed. They 

 have also admitted in their cross­examination that no money was 

 paid by the plaintiff to Mr. Ahmed Miyan. Therefore, there was 

 no consideration for the alleged assignment of trade mark. It is a 

 settled law that an assignment of trade mark without any consid­ T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 40 of 122 41 eration is void ab­initio. 66. The plaintiff is not successful in proving the issue no. 1 as he is 

not the registered proprietor of the trade mark FORCE. Therefore, the 

plaintiff has no locus standi to file a suit for infringement. The reliance 

can be placed upon 28 (1) of the Act which clearly states that the rights 

conferred by registration are given only to the register proprietor. The 

definition of Register Proprietor has been given in Section 2(1)(q) of 

the Act to read that "Register Proprietor", in relation to a trade mark, 

means the person for the time being entered in the Register as 

proprietor of the trade mark. Since the plaintiff name is not entered in 

the register as a proprietor of the trade mark FORCE registered under 

No. 214282­B, his suit is without any authority. 67. As per Section 12(3) of the Act the Registrar has power to 

register more than one trade marks which are similar or identical to 

each other. The mark FORCE 10 of the defendant was duly registered 

by the Registrar without any condition and limitation on the basis of 

honest and concurrent use by the defendant. Prior to that the mark of 

the defendant was duly published in the Journal for inviting opposition 

by the general public. Nobody opposed the said mark of the defendant T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 41 of 122 42 and the same was registered. In the instant case, the defendant has been 

using the mark FORCE­10 since 1990 and has acquired a considerable 

goodwill and reputation in the market and considering the volume of 

the business of the defendant, it can be easily said that the defendant is 

a honest concurrent user of the mark FORCE­10 and is entitled to get 

the benefit of Section 12 (3) of the Act. 68. Section 28(3) TMMA provides that a registered proprietor of the 

trade mark cannot take an action for infringement of his trade mark 

against a registered trade mark which is identical or similar to his trade 

mark. Section 30 which defines the acts not constituting infringement 

and section 30(1) (d) clearly states that no infringement action lies 

against the registered proprietor. The defendant is supported by the 

followings judgments:­ (i) P.M. Diesels Private Limited Vs.Thukral Mechanical Works; 

 PTC (Suppl) (2) 863 (Del) ( ii) N. R. Dongre and Ors. Vs. Whirlpool Corporation and Ors. ; 

 AIR 1995 DELHI 300 (iii) Soundarapandian Match Works Vs. M. Jayarama Chetty and 

 Others; PTC (Suppl) (2) 145 (Mad) T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 42 of 122 43 ( iv) Micolube India Ltd. Vs. Maggon Auto Centre ; 2010 (42) PTC 

 462 (Del.) 69. A plain reading of Section 28(3) and Section 30(1)(d) as well as 

the above mentioned case laws clearly state that a registered proprietor 

of the trade mark cannot file a suit for infringement of a trade mark 

against the registered proprietor. Without prejudice to the aforesaid, it 

is further submitted that the Plaintiff's claimed trademark under 

number 214282­B is a mark registered in Part­B of the register which 

is thus, a weak mark and prima facie a non­distinctive mark. Further, 

as per Sub­section (2) of Section 29 of the Act, an injunction or other 

relief shall not be granted to the plaintiff if the defendant establishes to 

the satisfaction of the court that the use of the mark of which the 

plaintiff complains is not likely to deceive or cause confusion or 

indicating a connection in the course of trade between the goods of 

the plaintiff and the goods of the defendant. Clearly, the Plaintiff has 

not been able to produce even an iota of evidence to show their use of 

the trademark FORCE and consequently any distinctiveness over the 

same. On the contrary, the defendant has produced voluminous 

evidence showing their extensive user of their trademark FORCE­10 T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 43 of 122 44 which undoubtedly shows that the defendant's use of the mark 

FORCE­10 indicates the source of the goods with the defendant only 

and therefore, there is clearly no likelihood of confusion or deception. 

Consequently, in light of sub­section (2) of Section 29 , the court shall 

not grant an injunction or other relief in favour of the plaintiff since 

there is no likelihood of confusion or deception due to the use of the 

mark FORCE­10 by the defendant. 70. Coming to the issue no. 2 it is submitted that the present suit 

filed by the plaintiff is only an action for infringement of trademark 

and a plea of passing­off has been only generally taken in the plaint 

without any specific and particular allegations of passing­off. The 

plaintiff has clearly pressed for a plea of passing­off as an afterthought 

only after the defendant filed a petition for cancellation of the 

trademark "FORCE" of the plaintiff in the year May, 1998. 71. Even otherwise, the plaintiff has failed to establish a case for 

passing­off in his favour. The plaintiff has not filed a single document 

including invoice and bill evidencing that the plaintiff is in the business 

of manufacturing and marketing of footwear bearing the mark FORCE 

as stated by the plaintiff in his plaint. The plaintiff has not filed or T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 44 of 122 45 shown the product bearing the mark FORCE on any of his footwear or 

that he is manufacturing/selling the product with the mark of FORCE. 

While dismissing the temporary injunction application it was observed 

there is no material to support that the plaintiff is using the mark 

FORCE on any of the footwear. 72. In an act of passing off, there has to be following essential 

elements:­ a) A person must be an owner of the mark on the basis of which he 

 is claiming the relief under passing off. b) The user of the mark must be prior in time as compared to the 

 person who is passing off his goods as the goods of the other 

 person. c) The manner in which the other person has used his marks on his 

 goods. d) There has to be long, continuous and exclusive use of the mark. e) The mark of person has acquired distinctiveness. There is great 

 amount of reputation and goodwill which is attached to his mark. T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 45 of 122 46 f) The user of mark of the defendant is likely to deceive and cause 

 confusion in the mind of general public and cause injury to be 

 business reputation of the plaintiff. 73. The plaintiff has miserably failed to place on record any material 

or documents evidencing that he or his predecessor are using the mark 

FORCE on any of the footwear since 1947 as claimed by him in para 4 

of the plaint. The PW­1 has admitted during his cross­examination that 

he is not using the mark FORCE on any of his invoice. The PW­1 

further admitted in his cross­examination that he does not specifically 

mention the trade mark FORCE on any of his invoice. That one of the 

dealer of the plaintiff who is examined as PW­3 also admitted that the 

bills which are filed along with his affidavit as exhibited PW­3/1 to 

PW­3/11 do not bear that the shoes are sold with the impugned mark 

FORCE. As mentioned herein above the user of the mark is an essence 

in an action of passing off and mere registration of a trademark without 

any user has no meaning. It is settled law that entire object of 

trademark law in conferring ownership rights by registration of 

trademark is that the trademark becomes distinctive qua the goods on 

account of the sale of goods with such trademark in the market. If there T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 46 of 122 47 is no sale, there does not arise the issue of distinctiveness, and mere 

registration without sales with the trademark does not entitle grant of 

relief of infringement or passing off. The plaintiff (PW­1) and his 

dealer (PW­3) have admitted that they are not using the trade mark 

FORCE on any of their invoice as well as on their products. Even 

otherwise, it could not have been difficult for the plaintiff to show sales 

of any products by them under the trademark FORCE had they had 

any. Therefore, it can be easily said that the plaintiff has no user of the 

trademark FORCE and has no distinctiveness over the said trademark 

and is therefore not entitled for any relief of passing off. 74. In support of the above argument the plaintiff relies upon the 

following judgments:­ (i) Smithkline Beecham PLC. & Anr. Vs. Sunil Sarmalkar & 

 Ors. ; Delhi High Court Judgment on 05.10.2012 in CS 

 (OS) No. 1181/2003. ( ii) Allergan Inc. & Anr. Vs. Intas Pharmaceuticals ; Delhi High 

 Court Judgment decided on 09.10.2012 in CS (OS) No. 

 1445/2003. T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 47 of 122 48 ( iii) Virumal Praveen Kumar vs. Needle Industries (India) Ltd. & 

 Anr. , 2001 (93) DLT 600. ( iv) Fedders Lloyd Corporation Ltd. & Anr. Vs. Fedders Corpora­ tion & Anr. 119 (2005) DLT 410. ( v) Santosh Devi and Ors. Vs. Ramesh Kumar and Ors. ; 2007(34)PTC219(Raj) 75. The relief of passing off cannot be given without comparing the 

products of both the parties as well as the manner (over all get up) in 

which the mark is used by the defendant. The comparison is carried out 

in order to determine the deception or confusion caused to the general 

public. Since the plaintiff has not placed on record any product bearing 

the mark FORCE, therefore, no comparison can be done. More so, the 

plaintiff has admitted that he is not using the trade mark FORCE on 

any of his product as well as on his invoices, therefore, in the absence 

of user of the mark FORCE on the products as well as on the invoices, 

no deception or confusion can be caused in the mind of the general 

public. In support of the argument reliance is placed upon J.R. Kapoor 

vs Micronix India; 1994 PTC (14) 260. T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 48 of 122 49 76. In an act of passing off, one has to prove that the product of the 

defendant has created confusion in the market in a way that the general 

public has been deceived by the defendant as he is selling the goods of 

the plaintiff. There is not even single document placed on record 

evidencing that the trade mark FORCE­10 of the defendant has created 

any confusion among the general public. Moreover, the plaintiff 

himself has admitted during his cross­examination that he did not get 

any kind of communication either from a customer or from a member 

of a trade suggesting that the trade mark FORCE­10 of the defendant 

had any nexus with the trade mark FORCE of the plaintiff. The 

plaintiff has further admitted during his cross­examination that he came 

to know about the trade mark FORCE­10 of the defendant only after he 

received a notice from the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi pertaining to 

the rectification/cancellation petition filed by the defendant against the 

registered trade mark FORCE registered under trade mark No. 214282­

B. The said admission of the plaintiff vehemently proves that he did 

not get any communication regarding the confusion or any kind of 

deception of the mark FORCE­10 used by the defendant. Therefore, 

the plaintiff is not entitled for the relief of passing off. T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 49 of 122 50 77. The relief of passing off is an equitable relief and can be granted 

to a person who has come to the court with clean hands, honestly and 

his conduct is fair. In the instant case, the plaintiff has not come to the 

court with clean hands and suppressed material facts from this Court 

and therefore, the plaintiff is not entitled to any discretionary relief of 

passing off. The same can be seen from the following facts:­ a) The plaintiff has stated falsely in the plaint that he is engaged in 

 the business of manufacturing of footwear whereas the plaintiff 

 has not placed on record evidencing that he has ever manufac­

 tured any footwear with the impugned mark FORCE. b) The plaintiff has withheld the very important fact that the Force 

 Footwear Company was a partnership firm in which his father 

 Mr. Ahmed Miyan, brothers and other relatives were partners. 

 The plaintiff has filed the present suit as a sole proprietor of 

 Force Footwear Company but he did not make any averment in 

 the plaint that how a Force Footwear Company became a sole 

 proprietor from the partnership firm. The plaintiff has concealed 

 the said material from this Hon'ble Court for the reasons best T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 50 of 122 51 known to him. Therefore, an adverse inference could be drawn 

 against the plaintiff. c) The plaintiff has filed a Deed of Assignment which is false and 

 fabricated and not legal, therefore, the plaintiff has approached 

 the court with unclean hands. d) That the plaintiff has concealed a material fact that the trademark 

 FORCE was removed from the Trademark register and a request 

 was filed for its restoration in Form TM­13. There is not even a 

 whisper of the same in the plaint for the reasons best known to 

 the plaintiff. Therefore the plaintiff is not entitled for an equi­

 table relief of passing­off on the ground of concealment of mate­

 rial facts. e) That the plaintiff has stated in para 8 of the plaint that the defen­

 dant is not the proprietor of the trade mark FORCE­10 in rela­

 tion to footwears. The said averment is blatantly false and total­

 ly contrary to the para 11 of the plaint where the plaintiff has 

 stated and admitted that he received a notice of cancellation/rec­

 tification filed by the defendant against the registered trade mark 

 no. 214282­B in class 25 of the plaintiff. It is noteworthy to T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 51 of 122 52 mention that in the said petition the defendant has categorically 

 stated that he is the proprietor of the trade mark FORCE­10 reg­

 istered under the trade mark no. 553998. f) The plaintiff has further stated in para 8 that the defendant is 

 marketing footwear under the trade mark FORCE­10 in Delhi 

 and other parts of the country in a clandestine and superstitious 

 manner i.e. without issuance of any invoice against sale. The 

 plaintiff himself proved that the said statement made by him un­

 der para 8 are false and frivolous. It is noteworthy to mention 

 that during the cross­examination of DW­1, the counsel for the 

 plaintiff put a document exhibit as DW­1/P­2 which is an invoice 

 issued by one of the dealers of the defendant. It may be noted 

 that the said exhibited document came from the custody of the 

 plaintiff and he put the same to the DW­1 who admitted that the 

 said invoice has been issued against the sale of his product bear­

 ing the mark FORCE­10. g) That the present suit filed by the plaintiff is only an action for in­

 fringement of trademark and a plea of passing­off has been only 

 generally taken in the plaint without any specific and particular T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 52 of 122 53 allegations of passing­off which have been pressed as an af­

 terthought only after the defendant filed a petition for cancella­

 tion of the trademark "FORCE" of the plaintiff in the year May, 

 1998. 78. In support of the above arguments the plaintiff places reliance 

upon the following judgments:­ ( i) Udai Chand Vs. Shankar Lal and Ors. (1978) 2 SCC 209 ( ii) S.P.C.V. Naidu Vs. Jagannath and Ors. (1994) 1 SCC1 (iii) Satish Khosla Vs. M/s Eli Lilly Ranbaxy Ltd. & Anr. (71) 

 (1998) Delhi Law Times 1 (DB) (iv) M/s Seemax Construction (P) Ltd. Vs. State Bank of India (AIR 1992 DELHI 197) 79. It is also important to note that plaintiff has filed documents 

which are exhibited PW­1/9 are related to assessment of income tax 

and sale tax returns filed by the plaintiff. On examination of these 

documents, it can be seen that some of the documents are in the name 

of partnership firm called Force Footwear Company whereas the 

plaintiff has stated in the present suit as he is the sole proprietor of M/s T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 53 of 122 54 Force Footwear Company. The plaintiff has not filed any document on 

record to suggest as to how he became the sole proprietor of the 

partnership firm Force Footwear Company. The plaintiff has concealed 

that said fact and has intentionally not stated even an iota of the same 

in the plaint or any where during entire proceeding of the captioned 

matter, therefore, the plaintiff is not entitled for any equitable relief and 

an adverse inference should be drawn against the plaintiff and the 

present should be dismissed with exemplary cost. Plaintiff's arguments in rebuttal 80. The objections taken up now as to the status of plaintiff, whether 

a partner or otherwise, is foreign to the pleadings in the matter. This 

fact has to be considered vis­a­vis the situation that parties have been 

litigating in different matter connected to the same subject matter and 

documents since long. No such defence had ever been raised in the 

written statement. No cross examination of witnesses of plaintiff on 

this aspect. This is so even when the documents and pleadings of 

plaintiff were filed much prior to the cross examination of PWs and 

were also in the knowledge of defendant on account of the said 

documents being in the file of matter before IPAB also. The counsel is T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 54 of 122 55 stating at bar that no such plea has been raised before IPAB also. 81. Taking the objection of defendant at face value regarding the non 

recordal of assignment by the RTM, the trade mark registration stands 

relegated to the original position where the father of plaintiff has 

registration in his favour as a proprietor. Thus, the objection regarding 

partnership pales into insignificance. 82. Notice can be taken of the fact that besides all the nitty­gritty of 

documents the father and siblings of the plaintiff ultimately form a 

family and these types of transactions/conduct are very common in 

Indian families businesses. In this matter, all the brothers of plaintiff 

have entered into the witness box and affirmed the assignment in their 

deposition. The objection as made by defendant is only an after 

thought. It is sketchy. No positive evidence has come from defendant 

on this aspect. 83. Right accrued by virtue of the assignment and not by the recordal 

of the same. Even without recordal or during the pendency of 

application for recordal the assignee can legitimately prosecuting his 

right by virtue of assignment. 84. The non recordal of assignment by RTM is for the reason that T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 55 of 122 56 file has been lost in the office of RTM and not due to any default on the 

part of the plaintiff. The proposition of law is that Act of Court shall 

prejudice. 85. The objection as to the deficiency in stamp duty on the 

assignment deed has been answered by filing an affidavit of making a 

payment of 10 times the amount of stamp duty and the same has been 

placed on record. Deficiency in stamp duty etc, is a matter between the 

court and the party concerned and the other side has no right except to 

raise on objection consequent to which deficiency can be made good. 86. Assuming though no admitting even if the infringement action is 

not made out, passing off action does subsist and can be the cause of 

action. 87. The aspect of honest concurrent user has been recognized by law 

but in a very limited domain. i) Adoption and user must be honest. ii) It must be concurrent iii) There must be some user. All the conditions must exist together. The absence of one would make 

the defence non­est. T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 56 of 122 57 88. Honesty on the part of defendant stands discounted on account of 

prior knowledge of the plaintiff's trade mark/trade name, no search of 

trade mark/trade name taken out by defendant. Once after becoming 

aware of plaintiff's trade mark from trade mark office any subsequent 

use by the defendant is at its own risk and defendant cannot use it as a 

cause in its favour. (DW1 has admitted in his cross examination that 

prior to adoption he went to Agra through investigator and the firm 

name was revealed in the investigation. DW­1 has also admitted in his 

cross examination that the trade mark FORCE was appropriate without 

stating the basis for the same). Another circumstance in favour of 

plaintiff is that the defendant's distributors in Kerala/South India has 

already informed about some products under the brand FORCE. 89. User by defendant has been shown only by placing the 

advertisement on record. As far as the invoices are concerned only 

copies have been filed at very late stage and have been of the period 

2003 onwards. 90. One other ingredient of honest concurrent user is that the parties 

are unmindful of the user and existence of the other. This is not the 

case vis­à­vis the defendant. T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 57 of 122 58 91. On the aspect of deceptive similarity of FORCE Vs. FORCE 10, 

the witness DW­1 has admitted the similarity in his cross examination 

when he stated that, it is correct that the mark FORCE and FORCE 10 

are identical and similar as per DW­1'. This admission against the 

interest of defendant is fatal. 92. The objections as to no case of passing off have no legs to stand. Sur Rebuttal 93. In sur­rebuttal, it has been submitted that the plaintiff has also 

belatedly attempted to file an affidavit to file the deficient stamp duty. 

The defendant objects to the same firstly, for the reason that this Court 

is not the proper forum for rectifying the deficient stamp duty since the 

Assignment Deed is a document which is filed with the Registrar of 

Trademarks and not this court and secondly, that the plaintiff cannot be 

permitted at this stage to file anything afresh document with an attempt 

to rectify a material defect over a document which is fundamental to 

the present proceedings. Without prejudice to the aforesaid, however, it 

is also submitted that this act of the plaintiff clearly amounts to an 

admission on their part that the Deed of Assignment as originally filed 

by them was improperly stamped being contrary to the provisions of T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 58 of 122 59 the Stamp Act and on this ground alone, the same ought not to be read 

into evidence. 94. Ld. Counsel for the defendant refuted the other arguments of 

rebuttal as advanced by the plaintiff and reiterated his earlier 

arguments and the case law cited. The case of Sun Pharmaceuticals 

Industries Limtied vs. Cipla Limited 2009 (39) PTC 347 (Delhi) has 

been relied upon to define the scope of section 44(2) TMMA as to the 

discretion of the court to be exercised in accordance with law and 

depending upon the facts and circumstances of each case. 95. No other point has been argued or urged. No other case law has 

been cited. Findings & Reasons 96. I have considered the submissions made and the material on 

record. My findings on various issues are as under:­ 

Issue no.1 Whether the defendant is guilty of infringing the 
registered trademark of the plaintiff under number 214282­B in 
relation to footwear in class 25? If so, its effect? &
Issue no.2 Whether the defendant is guilty of passing off the goods 
of the plaintiff by manufacturing the goods under the trademark 
FORCE 10? If so, its effect? OPP T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 59 of 122 60 97. I am taking up these two issue together on account of the 

evidence on these issues being interlinked; for the proper appreciation 

of evidence and to avoid prolixity. 98. Ld. Counsel for the plaintiff has cited a plethora of case law on 

the aspect of appreciation of pleadings and evidence. In fact the law 

pronounced in these judgments has become axiomatic and the same 

has been applied by me in the appreciation of the material on record. 99. To make the things explicit let me discuss some of the relevant 

aspects. In Smt. Rebti Devi vs. Ram Dutt AIR 1998 SC 310 it has 

held that once both the sides had lead the evidence question of onus of 

proof fades into insignificance. However it is to be kept in mind that 

onus is only the right to begin or open the evidence where as the 

burden of proof is the subsisting responsibility on the propounder. The 

distinction between the onus of proof and burden of proof has been 

brought out finely in the judgment of the Hon'ble High Court Delhi 

pronounced in UCO Bank vs. The Presiding Officer & Another 1999 LLR 1036 wherein it has held that 'burden of proving rests on 

the party who substantially asserts the affirmative of the issue and not T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 60 of 122 61 upon the party who denies it, for a negative is usually incapable of 

proof.' 100. Thus it is the settled law that in the course of trial the burden 

remains fixed or constant and never shifts or changes. It always 

remains on the propounder. Nevertheless, the onus of proof is dynamic 

and it keeps on shifting during the course of trial. 101. Hon'ble the High Court of Delhi in Kerala Agro Industries 

Corporation Limited vs. Beta Engineers 188 (2012) DLT 373 has 

been held that "...a civil case is decided on balance of probabilities. A 

civil court puts all the evidence which have been led in a melting pot so 

as to determine the final picture which has to emerge..." 102. Cumulatively, the above judgments have laid down the 

touchstone on which the evidence is to be tested. 103. The plaintiff has claimed infringement as well as passing off. 

Thus it is necessary to understand their fine features. 104. A fine distinction has been drawn between what are the salient 

distinguishing features of an action for passing off vis­à­vis an action 

for infringement in Kaviraj Pandit Durga Dutt Sharma v. 

Navaratna Pharmaceutical Laboratories AIR 1965 SUPREME T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 61 of 122 62 COURT 980 as under: 105. In Ruston and Hornby Ltd. v. Zamindara Engineering Co. AIR 1970 SUPREME COURT 1649 it has been held

 "In an action for infringement where the 
 defendant's trade mark is identical with the 
 plaintiff's mark, the Court will not enquire whether 
 the infringement is such as is likely to deceive or 
 cause confusion. But where the alleged 
 infringement consists of using not the exact mark 
 on the Register, but something similar to it, the test 
 of infringement is the same as in an action for 
 passing off. In other words, the test as to likelihood 
 of confusion or deception arising from similarity 
 of marks is the same both in infringement and 
 passing­off actions." 106. In this case the trade mark of plaintiff is 'FORCE' whereas that 

of the defendant is 'FORCE 10'. The word 'Force' is also part of the 

trade mark of the plaintiff. 107. To prove his cause of action the plaintiff has to establish firstly 

that he is the registered proprietor (or simply being the prior in 

adoption and use for the relief of passing off) of the trademark and T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 65 of 122 66 secondly that the defendant has by its acts and omissions has infringed 

his trademark. 108. PW1 is the plaintiff himself and he has deposed about the 

ownership of trade mark by his predecessor­in­interest and the factum 

of assignment. He has tendered on record Ex.PW1/1 which is the 

registration certificate of trade mark/labels FORCE in favour of 

Ahmed Mian, the predecessor­in­interest of the plaintiff; Ex.PW1/2 is 

the registered trade mark FORCE of the plaintiff under no. 214282­B 

in Class­25 and its renewal is Ex.PW1/3; Ex.PW1/4 is the Assignment 

Deed in favour of the plaintiff of the Registered Trade Mark Force. 109. The cross examination of PW1 on the aspect of the assignment 

deed is conspicuous by absence. 110. PW­1 has stated in his cross examination that the word 'FORCE' 

is his brand name; the name of his firm is FORCE FOOTWEAR 

COMPANY; the trade mark "FORCE" is also his trading style; the 

footwear manufactured by him are sold all over India; the trade mark 

"FORCE" is in use since 1947. The witness was asked since when he 

was using the trade mark "FORCE" to which he replied that he through 

his predecessors had been using the trade mark "FORCE" since the T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 66 of 122 67 year 1947 and that they had been using the said trade mark 

continuously since then. 111. Sh. Shamim Ahmad, one of the brothers of the plaintiff, is PW2. 

While during the cross examination of PW1 the defendant has not 

touched the aspect of the assignment deed at all, this witness has been 

extensively cross examined about the same. 112. PW2 has deposed about the execution of the assignment deed 

Ex. PW1/4. In his cross examination he stated that that the document 

Ex. PW 1/4 was signed at their residence; the document Ex. PW 1/4 

was prepared by one lawyer and was signed at their residence; it was 

prepared at Agra. He had read the document Ex. PW 1/ 4 before 

signing. 113. Further in his cross examination PW2 was questioned about the 

monetary transaction as narrated in Ex. PW1/4. He stated that no 

money was paid to his father by the plaintiff; no such transaction of 

money had taken place at the time of signing of the document Ex. PW 

1/4. 114. In his cross examination PW2 stated that he was present along 

with his brother Rais Ahmad, Naseer Ahmad, his father and other T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 67 of 122 68 family members. He denied the suggestion that the document Ex. PW 

1/4 was not signed by him in the presence of his brother Rais Ahmad, 

Naseer Ahmad, his father and other family members. He also denied 

the suggestion that he had not signed the document Ex. PW1/4 or the 

document Ex. PW 1/ 4 does not bear his signatures. The handwriting at 

point X and Y in Ex. PW 1/4 is of his brother Naseer Ahmad but he 

volunteered to state that he was not sure about it. 115. PW2 further stated that the signature at point Z on Ex. PW 1/ 4 

were his. PW­2 stated that he was making the signature in the same 

manner as are at point A, B and C for last 16 years. He denied the 

suggestion that he had not signed the documents Ex. PW 1/4 at point Z. 

He admitted that his signatures on affidavit Ex. PW 2/A at point A, B 

& C are different from his signatures on Ex. PW 1/4 at point Z. He 

again said there was a resemblance. He stated that he could recognize 

the signature of his father. He denied the suggestion that the document 

Ex. PW 1/ 4 was never signed by him and his brothers or that the 

document Ex. PW 1/ 4 is forged and fabricated. He also denied the 

suggestion that no such assignment took place between the plaintiff and 

his father. T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 68 of 122 69 116. The witness PW­5 is Sh. Rais Ahmad another brother of the 

plaintiff who has deposed about the assignment deed Ex. PW1/4. He 

stated in his cross examination that he had been residing at 24/234, 

Nala Nai Basti, Agra (U.P.) since birth. 117. In his cross examination PW5 stated that the document Ex. 

PW1/4 was prepared by his father as Senior Partner at Agra. PW­5 

stated that the document Ex. PW 1/4 had been signed by him at his 

residence and that he had read the document carefully before signing it. 118. About the monetary aspect he stated that no money was paid by 

the plaintiff to his father. He admitted that no such transaction of 

money took place between the plaintiff and his father at the time of 

signing of the document Ex. PW 1/4. 119. PW5 stated in his cross examination that he was not sure 

whether the document Ex. PW 1/4 had been prepared by a lawyer. The 

document Ex. PW 1/4 was signed by him in presence of the plaintiff, 

his brother Shamim Ahmad and his father. He admitted that no other 

family member was present at the time of signing of the document Ex. 

PW 1/4. The handwriting at point X and Y on Ex. PW 1/ 4 is of his 

brother Naseer Ahmad. The document Ex. PW 1/4 was prepared at his T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 69 of 122 70 residence by his father in presence of him and his brothers Naseer 

Ahmad and Shamim Ahmad. The documents had been typed elsewhere 

by his father. He stated that document had been thoroughly discussed 

between his brothers and his father before signing it. He denied the 

suggestion that he had not signed the Ex. PW 1/4. He denied that the 

document Ex. PW 1/4 was never signed by him and his brothers. He 

denied the suggestion that the document Ex. PW 1/4 is forged and 

fabricated. He also denied that no such assignment took place between 

the plaintiff and his father. 120. It is the cardinal rule of appreciation of evidence that it has to be 

appreciated in totality to understand its true and correct import. 

Distinction is also to be drawn between the minor contradictions and 

major debacles so that one may not miss the jungle for the trees. 121. Now appreciating the evidence of these three witnesses on this 

touchstone on the aspect of the execution of the assignment deed Ex. 

PW1/4 it emerges that but for small variations or contradictions the 

evidence has remained consistent. 122. Not even a single question has been put to PW1 to impugn the 

said document and the testimony of PW1 vis­à­vis this document is T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 70 of 122 71 entirely unchallenged. In the evidence of the PW2 and PW5 some 

contradictions as to who had drafted the said document; who all were 

present at the time of its execution and some differences in signatures 

have cropped it. The moot question is whether these discrepancies in 

themselves are sufficient to strike down the document or whether they 

are just natural to an ordinary human being whose memory may fade 

with the passage of time and he may not recollect the things in a 

picturesque fashion. While appreciating the evidence, it has to be kept 

in mind that these witnesses are ordinary persons from a small town 

and have been pitted against the skills of erudite lawyers. On the other 

hand, the event of execution of the document Ex. PW1/4 is as old as 28 

years, thus the witnesses' testimony has to be appreciated in view of 

the considerable time lag. In this view of the matter the testimony of 

these witnesses is natural, free flowing and without blemish of being 

tutored. 123. I am not surprised by the contradictions. Rather I would have 

been shocked by the absence of contradictions. The absence of 

variations or contradictions would have ostensibly been suggestive of 

the witnesses being tutored. These contradictions are not material to T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 71 of 122 72 impugn the assignment deed Ex. PW1/4. These are minor tits and bits 

which do not malign the document. Thus on the basis of preponderance 

of probabilities the assignment deed is duly proved. 124. The ownership of the trademark has been claimed by the plaintiff 

basis on the basis of Assignment Deed purported to have been executed 

by the predecessor­in­interest of the plaintiff who is none other than his 

own father and also the original registered proprietor of the trademark 

and trade name. 125. The assignment deed has been challenged by the defendant on 

two counts. Firstly, it has not been registered by the Registrar of 

Trademarks and as such the bar of Section 44 TMMA is attracted and 

thus it cannot be read in evidence as conferring any right, title or 

interest in favour of the plaintiff. Secondly, even if the plaintiff is able 

to overcome the embargo of section 44 TMMA, there is no due 

execution of the assignment deed as well as due payment of the stamp 

duty as a sum of Rs.1000/­ has been shown as the consideration thus 

requiring the payment of ad­valorum stamp duty at appropriate rates 

which were prevalent at the contemporary times. T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 72 of 122 73 126. The provision under section 44 TMMA reads as under: 127. The case of Soundarapandian Match Works vs. M. Jayarama 

Chetty and Others PTC (Suppl) (2) 145 (Mad) has been relied upon 

by the defendant to cite that Section 44 (1) TMMA that non registration 

of assignment by the Registrar renders the same inoperative and en­

forceable. On the other hand, another case cited by the defendant as 

Cott Beverage Inc., A Georgia Corporation v. Silvassa Bottling 

Company 2004(29) PTC679 (Bom) goes to aid the plaintiff as it has 

been held in that case that section 44 of TMMA does not create a bar 

for filing a suit by the assignee whose application is pending disposal 

for registration; it is in the discretion of the court whether to permit the 

said un­registered document in evidence or not; however, it cannot be 

said that the procedure of registration of assignment is a mere formali­

ty. 128. Sun Pharmaceuticals Industries Limtied vs. Cipla Limited 2009 (39) PTC 347 (Delhi) pronounces that "the assignee immediately 

on assignment i.e. by writing acquires title to the registered trademark. Section 45(2) couched in peremptory language, is however subject to a T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 74 of 122 75 direction to the otherwise of the court. The ultimate decision, 

therefore, is of the court, whether to admit into evidence or place 

reliance on any document of assignment or transmission of trade mark, 

inspite of the same being not entered in the Register. The legislature 

has thus after lying down the general rule of an unregistered 

document of assignment being not admissible in evidence, still left the 

discretion in the court, to be of course exercised in accordance with 

law and depending on facts and circumstances of each case. Section 

45(2) appears to have been inserted more for the reason of ensuring the 

enforcement of Section 45(1) . In the absence of Section 45(2) , 

assignees of registered trade mark would not have bothered to apply 

for registration with the Registrar and which would have led to 

disputes as to who is the registered proprietor. It is in the nature of Section 35 of the Stamp Act prohibiting the courts from admitting into 

evidence documents not duly stamped. However, the intent there also 

is not to extinguish the rights under the documents but only to ensure 

collection of stamp duty. This provision is unlike that of Registration 

Act , where under there can be no conveyance of title without a 

registered document. For the same reason, the later part of Section T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 75 of 122 76 45(2), after providing for the prohibition provides "unless the court 

otherwise directs." Seen in this light the contention of the counsel for 

the plaintiff that there can be no hiatus and the title as registered 

proprietor cannot remain in abeyance is well founded." 129. The plaintiff has armored his arguments with a catena of case 

law. The case of Cinni Foundation vs. Raj Kumar Sah & Sons & 

Anr. 2009 (41) PTC 320 (DEL) has been relied upon to cite that the 

acquisition of title in trade mark is by virtue of assignment deed and 

not dependant upon assignment being registered as registration of as­

signment is only to place on record the fact that title has been created; 

registration by itself does not create title which already stands created 

on execution of assignment; assignee immediately on assignment, i.e., 

by writing acquires rights; it is the act of parties which vests the title 

and not the registration thereof. In M/s Modi Threads Limited vs. 

M/s Som Soot Gola Factory and Anr. AIR 1992 DELHI 4 it has 

been held that during pendency of assignment recordial proceedings, 

assignee can sue for infringement/passing off. Classic Equipments (P) 

Ltd. vs. Johnson Enterprises and Others 2009 (41) PTC 385 (DEL) 

has been cited to show that once assigned, assignor ceases to have T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 76 of 122 77 rights. Collector of Central Excise vs. Vikshara Trading & Invest. 

P. Ltd. 2003 (27) PTC 603 (SC) has been relied upon to cite that non 

registration of assignment is not fatal. In Mirgardshammar India 

Limited & Ors. vs. Morgardshammar AB 193(2012) DLT 238 

(DB) it has been held that upon assignment the assignee becomes the 

owner of the trademarks and can even sue for infringement even before 

mark is registered by trademarks registry in his favour as a subsequent 

proprietor. 130. From the above discussion, the following points emerge as ax­

iomatic:­ (i). Rights are created by execution of assignment deed and 

 not by mere recordal of assignment by the Registrar; (ii). Recording of assignment is not merely an empty formality 

 and cannot altogether be ignored; (iii). Courts in the facts and circumstances of a case may con­

 sider whether to admit an unregistered assignment deed in evi­

 dence or not. 131. Regarding the first objection of defendant the law cited by the 

parties clearly shows that there is discretion vested in the court whether T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 77 of 122 78 to consider the assignment deed sans the registration. As regards the 

second objection the plaintiff has tried to meet the same that it is ready 

and willing to pay ten times the deficient stamp duty payable to over 

come the objection and this would cure the defect. Per contra, it is 

submitted by defendant that the defect is not curable. 132. It is the settled law that even an insufficiently stamped document 

can be read in evidence for collateral purpose. 133. No statutory or case law has been cited before me to show that 

the defect of insufficient stamping is not curable. The raison d'etre 

which weighed with the Legislature not to admit the insufficiently 

stamped documents in evidence is to protect the interest of the Rev­

enue. One cannot deprive the Revenue of its legitimate dues on the one 

hand while seeking to enforce his rights through the legal system by 

banking upon an unstamped or insufficiently stamped document. 134. It is the duty of the Courts to balance the rights and obligations 

of the various stakeholders. There is no material on record to suggest 

that the non­payment of appropriate stamp duty on Ex. PW1/4 is with a 

view to escape the payment of stamp duty. No such suggestion has 

been given. On the contrary the defendant has tried to set up a case that T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 78 of 122 79 the said sum of Rs. 1000/­ as mentioned in Ex. PW1/4 was never paid. 

In that eventuality, the clause becomes redundant and superfluous. 

Considering the facts and circumstances and also taking cognizance of 

the fact that the document is as old as 28 years, in my view the interest 

of justice would be served if the plaintiff is afforded an opportunity to 

pay the maximum of stamp duty with the maximum of penalty envis­

aged under the law i.e. 11 times the stamp duty payable and on the pre­

sumption that the plaintiff would pay this amount by way of filing of 

non­judicial stamp papers of the value of Rs. 880/­ within 30 days 

henceforth, the document is considered as duly stamped. However the 

non­payment as above shall amount to the withdrawal of the conces­

sion extended and the necessary consequences shall be bound to fol­

low. 135. Another aspect of the matter which is required to be considered 

is that both the trade marks viz. 'Power' in the case of plaintiff and 

'Power 10' in the case of defendant are registered. A look into section 

12 of TMMA shows the following position of law:­ T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 79 of 122 80 "12. PROHIBITION OF REGISTRATION OF 

 IDENTICAL OR DECEPTIVELY SIMILAR 

 TRADE MARKS:­

 (1) Save as provided in subsection (3), no 
 trade mark shall be registered in respect of any 
 goods or description of goods, which is identical 
 with or deceptively similar to a trade mark, which 
 is already registered in the name of different pro­
 prietor in respect of the same goods, or description 
 of goods. (2) Where separate applications arc made by 
 different persons to be registered as proprietors re­
 spectively of trade marks which are identical or 
 nearly resemble each other in respect of the same 
 goods or description of goods, the Registrar may 
 defer the acceptance of the application or applica­
 tions hearing a later date until after the determina­
 tion of the proceedings in respect of the earlier ap­
 plication, and may dispose of such application or 
 applications in the light of the evidence tendered in 
 relation to earlier application and the oppositions 
 thereto, if any. (3) In case of honest concurrent use or of other 
 special circumstances which in the opinion of the 
 Registrar, make it proper so to do, lie may permit 
 the registration by more than one proprietor of 
 trade marks which are identical or nearly resemble T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 80 of 122 81 each other whether any such trade mark is already 
 registered or not) in respect of the same goods or 
 description of goods, subject to such conditions 
 and limitations, if any, as the Registrar may think 
 fit to impose." 136. While examining the instant issue this Court is conscious of the 

fact that it has no powers to sit in appeal over the act of the Registrar in 

registering the trade mark of the defendant and for the challenge of this 

nature, the remedy lies elsewhere. 137. The evidence of plaintiff as to when and how he noticed the 

violation of his trademark is relevant. This is necessary to dwell into 

for a variety of reasons including establishment of cause of action on 

the part of the plaintiff. Therefore let the evidence of PW1 be explored 

on this aspect. 138. In his cross examination PW1 had stated that he did not receive 

any kind of communication from either a customer or a member of 

trade to suggest that the trade mark "FORCE­10" of the defendant had 

any nexus with his trade mark "FORCE". Here he volunteered to state 

that he used to go to the market himself and discovered that the 

defendant had also being using this trade mark "FORCE" which T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 81 of 122 82 affected his sales. PW­1 stated that he came to know about the trade 

mark "FORCE 10" of the defendant for the first time when he had 

received a notice from the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi pertaining to 

cancellation/rectification petition being CO No. 10 of 1998 filed by the 

defendant against registered trade mark no. 214282B in class 25 

belonging to the plaintiff. Before that he did not see or came to know 

about the use of the trade mark "FORCE 10". He stated that his 

business and reputation is suffering and that the said fact had been 

mentioned in para no. 11. PW1was asked as to what was the basis of 

that statement to which he replied that the retailers used to complain 

about the inferior quality of the defendant's product i.e. footwear sold 

under the trade mark "FORCE 10" and as a result, his reputation and 

business used to suffer. 139. PW­1 further stated in his cross examination that there is no 

letter or any kind of communication from any retailer to suggest the 

inferior quality of the defendant's product being footwear under the 

trade mark "FORCE 10". Here he volunteered to state that all the 

complaints were received by him when he visited the market. He stated 

that he had received complaints from Shoes World, Hyderabad, Men's T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 82 of 122 83 Footwear, Hyderabad, Shoe Worked, Bangalore, Avdesh Enterprises, 

Bangalore. All these complaints were received by him only after the 

receipt of the notice of the Hon'ble High Court wherein the defendant 

sought cancellation/rectification of his trade mark "FORCE" registered 

under the no. 21422B in class 25. The witness was suggested that 

he did not receive any complaints as referred above which suggestion 

was denied by him. 140. The above evidence goes to show that the plaintiff is not 

categorical about the date of noticing the violation and about how he 

became cognizant of the violation of his trade mark. Admittedly he has 

not received any complaint from a customer. He states that he had 

received complaints from his retailers, but he has not produced any 

documentary evidence to support this plea like the written complaints, 

any complaint register maintained in his office in the course of 

business or any like evidence. 141. Later on the plaintiff/PW1 took a 'U' turn from his earlier stand 

when he stated that he came to know about the trade mark "FORCE 

10" of the defendant for the first time when he had received a notice 

from the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi pertaining to T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 83 of 122 84 cancellation/rectification petition and that before that he did not see or 

came to know about the use of the trade mark "FORCE 10". The 

appreciation of the evidence of the plaintiff as comprehensively and in 

a meaningful manner shows that his cause against the acts of defendant 

stand on a very weak footing. He is groping in his dark about the 

genesis of the violation of his trade mark by the defendant. His version 

is based solely on his own and self­serving statement, which on the 

face of it does not inspire confidence. 142. PW1 is also silent about the nature of inferiority pointed out by 

the persons concerned about the goods of defendant under the brand 

'Force 10'. He has pressed into service an opinion or inference without 

disclosing the basis for the same. No tangible material has been 

produced by the plaintiff before the Court to substantiate his claim 

except his oral version. He has not brought into the witness box any 

independent witness on this aspect. 143. PW­3 is Sh. Inder Pal Singh whose testimony makes an 

interesting reading. PW­3 stated in his cross examination that his 

business is in the name of Chadha Enterprises, of which he is one of 

the partners. PW­3 stated that he had been dealing with the plaintiff for T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 84 of 122 85 the last about 6­7 years. He has been in the business of whole sale of 

shoes since 1972, when he joined my father and independently since 

1975 after the death of his father. PW­3 stated that he has a reasonable 

knowledge of the trade but could not say that he was a full grown 

expert. 144. PW3 had relied upon bill dated 31.12.05 Ex. PW 3/1, bill dated 

24.11.2006 Ex. PW 3/2 , bill dated 02.02.07 Ex. PW 3/3, bill dated 

23.04.07 Ex. PW 3/4 , bill dated 14.06.07 Ex. PW 3/5, bill dated 

27.03.08 Ex. PW 3/6, bill dated 27.03.08 Ex. PW 3/7, bill dated 

06.06.08 Ex. PW 3/8, bill dated 06.06.08 Ex. PW 3/9, bill dated 

26.02.09 Ex. PW 3/10, bill dated 20.02.09 Ex. PW 3/11, ledger entry 

for the year 2005­06 Ex. PW 3/12, ledger entry for the year 2006­07 

Ex. PW 3/13, ledger entry for the year 2007­08 Ex. PW 3/14 and 

ledger entry for the year 2008­09 Ex. PW 3/15. Ex. PW 3/1 to Ex. PW 

3/ 11 are Objected to by the Ld. Counsel for defendant on the ground 

that the originals of the same are not filed. The carbon copies are 

shown which are maintained by the plaintiff. In my view, the carbon 

copies are admissible in evidence as they have been prepared by the 

same mechanical process and thus the objection is rejected. The T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 85 of 122 86 original bills received by PW­3 from the plaintiff have not been shown 

and filed on record. Ex. PW 1/ 12 to Ex. PW 1/ 15 are objected to by 

the defendant on the ground that the same are ledger entries maintained 

by the plaintiff only and not by the PW­3. This objection of defendant 

is sustained. 145. In his cross examination PW­3 had stated that the bills exhibited 

as Ex. PW 3/1 to Ex. PW 3/7 do not bear the plaintiff's trade mark 

FORCE; the bill Ex. PW 3/1 to PW 3/ 11 do not describe that the shoes 

are sold under the plaintiff's trade mark FORCE. 146. PW3 had admitted the suggestion that the goods are supplied to 

him by plaintiff from Agra. The supplies are sent on orders which are 

verbal. Mostly the orders are given over the telephone. The person 

who delivers the goods gives a Receipt but he has not filed any such 

Receipt with his affidavit. He denied the suggestion that his business 

concern neither ever purchased any goods from plaintiff nor ever any 

goods were supplied by plaintiff. Chadha Enterprises works at Shop 

no. 79, Desh Bandhu Gupta Market, Karol Bagh, Delhi. 147. In his cross examination PW3 admitted the suggestion that the 

exhibits PW 3/1 to PW 3/11 are the office copies of the bills as per T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 86 of 122 87 record coming from the custody of the plaintiff. The Ex. PW 3/12 to 

Ex. PW 3/15 are not the records which are produced by him but they 

are coming from the plaintiff. He stated that he was not the author of 

Ex. PW 3/12 to Ex. PW 3/15. PW­3 stated that he could make an 

attempt to bring the original bills corresponding to Ex. PW 3/ 1 to Ex. 

PW 3/11 subject to their availability. Later on he produced the 

originals of Ex. PW 3/1 to Ex. PW 3/11. He admitted that the bills Ex. 

PW 3/1 to Ex. PW 3/11 do not bear his signatures. He denied the 

suggestion that he had never sold the foot wears/shoes with the 

impugned mark FORCE or that he had not purchased any foot wears 

from the plaintiff. 148. Witnesses are the eyes and ears of the Court. It is the sacrosanct 

duty of a witness to depose truthfully so that the end objective of the 

trial, which is a search for the truth, is attained. Here the witness PW3 

has not helped the Court in this process. A witness should not identify 

himself with the cause of any of the parties, but this witness has done 

so. He has produced the evidence, which is originating from the 

custody of the plaintiff. This puts a question mark on his independence 

and impartiality. T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 87 of 122 88 149. The witness PW3 stated in his cross examination that that he did 

not know who has drafted the affidavit Ex. PW 3/A; he stated that he 

had signed the affidavit in good faith; he denied that he had filed the 

affidavit Ex. PW 3/A along with Ex. PW 3/1 to Ex. PW 3/15 in good 

faith as he has cordial relation with the plaintiff; he denied the 

suggestion that he was deposing on the behest of plaintiff on the 

ground of his cordial relation with him. Though the concept of 'falsus 

in uno, falsus in omnibus' (false in one, false in all) has no application 

in the Indian legal jurisprudence, the fact remains that the evidence of 

a witness has to be appreciated in totality to cull out its true import and 

meaning. 150. In the instant case, reading the evidence of PW3 as it is, his 

testimony does not inspire confidence as he is not the author of the 

documents tendered by him; most of the documents are coming from 

the custody of the plaintiff and in regard to the same PW3 is only a 

proxy of the plaintiff and he has stated that he had signed the affidavit 

in good faith thus showing that he is not the author of his own affidavit 

and has ostensibly signed the same on the dotted lines. Though he has 

denied the suggestion that he has deposed on behalf of the plaintiff on T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 88 of 122 89 account of having cordial relations, the circumstances point to the 

contrary. Thus his statement is belied and shown to be being without 

any substance. Ostensibly he has just appeared to support the plaintiff 

and in this process has tendered the record which belonged to plaintiff. 

Though the witness has denied the suggestion but considering his 

evidence in totality clearly indicates that he has come to help the 

plaintiff on account of sharing good relationship only and thus 

interested in the outcome of the lis. 151. Coming to the effect or likely/potential effect of the use of trade 

mark 'Force 10' on the plaintiff, on which aspect the evidence of PW1 

assumes relevance to the context. 152. In his cross examination PW1 was asked if he could show from 

the invoices the use of the trade mark "FORCE" to which he replied 

that his all sales are under the brand of "FORCE". He stated that his 

bills/invoices do not mention the said trade mark "FORCE" on any 

invoice. PW­1 also stated that he did not specifically mention the trade 

mark "FORCE" on any invoices as his brand is only FORCE. There is 

no invoice which bears the trade mark "FORCE". He denied the 

suggestion that he had never used the trade mark "FORCE" on any T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 89 of 122 90 product. In the cross examination PW­1 stated that but for the use of 

trademarks FORCE10 by the defendant the sales as mentioned in para 

no. 7 would have increased to a large extent. 153. PW­1 also stated in his cross examination that he had placed on 

record relevant income tax and sales tax documents to substantiate his 

sales as referred to in para no. 7 of his affidavit Ex. PW 1/5; the said 

documents are appearing from page no. 12 to page 52; these documents 

are also exhibited as Ex. PW 1/9 (colly.) from page 12 to 52. PW1 

stated that he had not incorporated the details of the advertisement and 

sales promotion expenses incurred by him, however, he volunteered to 

add that the bills/invoices with regard to the sales expenses have been 

placed on record. 154. Ex.PW1/5 is a document showing sales figures of the plaintiff 

firm. In fact, it is only a statement of plaintiff and not an independent 

document. Ex.PW1/6 (Colly) are the advertisements in the newspapers, 

printing bills, letters and orders of various parties issued in favour of 

the plaintiff. Ex. PW1/8 are the sale bills. Ex. PW1/9 which is Income 

Tax documents and Sale Tax Assessments orders. 155. The defendant has taken a strong exception to the various tax T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 90 of 122 91 documents of the plaintiff wherein there is shift of the business entity 

as proprietorship at certain points of time and partnership at certain 

points of time, but it does not cut much ice in view of the fact that in 

Indian families the businesses are managed in such way that very fine 

confinement to the strict rules is seldom seen. With the corporatization 

of business, there is rigidity of formation of business entities. Thus the 

standards which may be followed by the defendant many not be strictly 

followed by plaintiff more so when in traditional families business is 

closely held contrary to the corporate culture where it is widely held. 

The evidence of DW1, which would be discussed subsequently, would 

go to show how even with corporate structure some aspects of the 

business are closely held through family partnerships vehicles etc. 

Thus this objection of defendant cuts no ice, when the continuous use 

of the trade mark is shown through the family. Had the other persons 

would have been some strangers the things would have been otherwise 

and the stake of the plaintiff to the trademark would have created 

ripples in his claim. 156. PW­4 is Shri Vinod Kumar S/o Sh. Narain Dass, R/o E­21, 

Kamla Nagar, Agra, U. P, who has been tendered into the witness box T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 91 of 122 92 on the aspect of promotional aspects of the plaintiff trade mark. In his 

cross examination he had admitted the suggestion that he was not the 

owner and proprietor of the firm M/s Narain Printing Press. He has 

been working in the said printing press for the last 30 years. He 

admitted that his father has been the owner and proprietor of the said 

printing press, who is still alive. He admitted the suggestion that the 

Ex. PW 4/1 was signed by his father. He denied the suggestion that he 

has nothing to do with the Ex. PW 4/1. 157. PW6 is Sh. Bandhu Ram who is Record Keeper from Trade 

Mark Registry, who is a summoned witness. He stated that he had not 

brought the complete record for the reason that some record has been 

lost and some proceedings are pending for reconstruction of various 

lost filed, but he did not know the exact particulars. He has proved the 

legal proceedings certificate dated 15.11.11 with respect to application 

No.214282 in Class­25 as Ex.PW6/A. He has tendered the photocopy 

of the letter dated 10.08.11 along with photocopy of the envelope 

which was sent to Ahmed Miyan and the same was returned unserved, 

as Ex.PW6/B. This document was objected to by Ld. Counsel for the 

defendant on the ground of it being a photocopy and cannot be T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 92 of 122 93 exhibited; and it was observed that merely exhibiting a document does 

not amount to its proof in accordance with law. In my view the 

document Ex. PW6/A only goes to show that Shri Ahmed Miyan is the 

registered proprietor of the trade mark FORCE on the record of the 

Trade Mark Registry. 158. PW6 stated in his cross examination that he did not have any 

personal knowledge of the case of which he had brought the record; the 

entire record which was available has been brought by him and the 

above two documents are the only record available. 159. PW­7 Sh. Rajesh Oberoi is the Assistant Examiner from Trade 

Mark Registry and has brought the summoned record pertaining to 

application no.554196 in Class­25 and its opposition no. DEL­

T­200/50435. He stated that he could not file the same or its copies on 

record as the law permits that certified copy of the same can be 

obtained. On this statement of witness ld. Counsel for plaintiff stated 

that he would apply for the certified copies and place the same on 

record and it be considered in accordance with law. In his cross 

examination the witness was asked if he had placed on record a 

certificate for use in legal proceedings under registration no. 214282B T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 93 of 122 94 dated 13.03.1963 for the trade mark "FORCE" to which he replied that 

he had placed on record a certificate for use in legal proceedings as referred above . 160. Now is the turn of the defendant's to pass the test of fire. DW­1 

is Sh. Adarsh Gupta. His examination in chief is contained in his 

affidavit which is Ex. DW 1/A. He tendered documents Ex. DW 1/1 to 

DW 1/5. Ex. DW 1/2 to Ex. DW 1/5 have been objected to by the Ld. 

Counsel for plaintiff as to mode of proof being photocopies. Ex.DW1/1 

(Colly) which are magazines in which advertisements of defendant 

have been published; Ex.DW1/P1 which are documents relating to the 

defendant's trade mark running into 14 pages; Ex.DW1/P2 which is 

retail invoice/cash memo Ex.DW1/2 (colly) which are sales invoices 

and excise cum commercial invoices. Ex DW1/6 and ExDW1/7 which 

are Trade Mark Journal advertisement of application. 161. It is noteworthy that while recording the suggestions put to the 

witness DW1, the printer's devil has crept in. In most of the 

suggestions the word not is conspicuous by absence. If these are read 

verbatim, these do violence to both the parties and it is obvious that 

such could not have been the meaning. Hence, I have read and T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 94 of 122 95 comprehended them in their true constriction which is apparent from 

the nature of pleadings and evidence. 162. In his cross examination DW1 denied the suggestion that the 

defendant is a largest manufacturing and selling group in the filed of 

footwear; or that the defendant's plant is spread over 200 acres and 

they have 20 branches offices and 350 distributors and over 350 retail 

stores world wide; or that the defendant having employees over more 

than 5000 persons; or that he had submitted any detail as regards to the 

distribution network of the defendant; or that the defendant's products 

are known and sold globally; or that the defendant is among the top 

five manufacture of leather footwear; or that the defendant is selling its 

products outside the India; or defendant has filed any documents which 

reflects its sale outside India; or that the defendant has exported its 

product; or that the defendant is having a business worth Rs.300 

Crores. These suggestions, according to their true construction, goes to 

show that the plaintiff is denying the nature, size and extent of the 

establishment of the defendant which the defendant has been denying. 163. The witness DW1 stated in his cross examination that the invoice 

no. 11750 dated 22.02.2008 has been issued by Group Company T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 95 of 122 96 Liberty Retail revolution Ltd, which is engaged in the business of retail 

sale. He denied the suggestion that the said invoice is false and 

fabricated and was not issued by the defendant. He stated that the said 

invoice is a computer generated invoice and it requires no signatures; 

these invoices are issued for retail sale depending on number of 

transactions and each transaction has separate invoice; each invoice 

bears TIN number issued by the State Govt. and respective sale tax is 

deposited on each invoice and sale tax returns are also filed 

periodically; he denied the suggestion that no sales tax return have 

been filed by the defendant company; or that the said invoice was ever 

filed with sale tax department or that he had ever done any sales tax 

assessment of the said invoices. He admitted the suggestion that he had 

paid sale tax against the said invoice no. 11750; and that he had paid 

sale tax by way of challan to the Sale Tax Department. He stated that 

he had not filed any documents with respect to defendant's sale tax 

return. He denied the suggestion that he had not done the Sales Tax 

assessment of the year 2006 or that he had done the sale tax assessment 

of any of the year. He stated that he was not aware the exact date/year 

of the issuance of the TIN number of the said bill; the bills are issued T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 96 of 122 97 with TIN number when TIN Number has come into effect; before TIN 

Number the invoices are issued by the defendant company; before TIN 

number Sales Tax or Central Sales Tax numbers were written on the 

invoices. He denied the suggestion that the defendant company not had 

any sale tax number prior to TIN number. He stated that the defendant 

has obtained sale tax number since fifties and have been paying 

necessary sale tax regularly. 164. DW1 further stated in his cross examination himself to be the 

partner of the defendant company since he was minor and become 

major in 1979 and since 1979 he has been the major partner. The firm 

came into existence in 1954 when he was not born and it was formed 

by founding partners late Sh. Dharam Pal Gupta, Late Sh. Purshotam 

Das Gupta and late Sh. Raj Kumar Bansal joined the firm in 1959 and 

now their legal heirs are partners in the defendant firm and are 

continuing its business under the defendant's firm. 165. Further in his cross examination DW1 stated that he had not filed 

any tax assessment orders and tax returns. He denied the suggestion 

that he had never paid any income tax on his income. He denied the 

suggestion that the invoices were prepared at one particular time and T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 97 of 122 98 the same was stamped at one place and at this stage he volunteered to 

state that these were computer generated documents and certified by 

the company. 166. DW1 stated that he is a director in Liberty Retail Revolutions 

Ltd. by which the invoices were issued. He has not brought the MOA 

and AOA of Liberty Retail Revolutions Ltd. but volunteered to 

produce the same. This document belongs to Liberty Group Company. 

There is a relationship between Liberty Footwear Company and 

Liberty Retail Revolutions Ltd. There is an agreement for such 

relationship since about 2003 when Liberty Retail Revolutions Ltd 

came into existence. Prior to 2003 the sales were also made by other 

group firms/companies including Liberty Enterprises, Liberty Group 

Marketing Division and Liberty Shoes Ltd. besides hundreds of 

distributors/dealers spread across India and out side India. No sales 

bills prior to 2003 seems to have been filed but the witness stated that 

he can produce the same. 167. The witness DW1 also stated in his examination that he relied 

upon documents Ex.DW1/6 which is a CA certificate certifying the 

sale and advertising expenses of the defendant, Ex.DW1/7(colly) no.8 T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 98 of 122 99 to 332, which are sales invoices, excise cum commercial invoices for 

the defendant's product; he also relied upon a power of attorney in my 

favour which is marked as Mark A. 168. DW1 stated in his cross examination that the Liberty Footwear 

Company is a partnership firm; there are about 14­15 partners in the 

said partnership firm; the partnership firm is a registered partnership 

firm. DW1 stated that he had not brought the original partnership deed 

but volunteered to state that he could produce the same as per the 

directions of the court. 169. Further in his cross examination DW1 denied the suggestion that 

Liberty Footwear Co. is not a partnership firm and same is registered 

with the Registrar or that he is not the partner in the said partnership 

firm. The Liberty Group consists of several group companies/firm 

such as Liberty Footwear Co.,(Partnership firm), Liberty Enterprises 

(Partnership firm), Liberty Group Marketing Division (Partnership 

firm) and Liberty shoes Ltd. and Liberty retails revolutions besides 

others. He denied the suggestion that the above said group companies 

are not firms/companies at all. DW1 stated that they have not 

submitted the copies of partnership deed and companies related T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 99 of 122 100 documents but he can produce the same as per the directions of the 

court. He denied the suggestion that the defendant started their 

business in 1954 retail outlet at Karnal under the house mark Liberty. 

He stated that he has not filed any documents pertaining to year 1954 

which reflects the initiation of the defendant firm under its house mark 

Liberty. 170. DW1 admitted the suggestion as correct that the suit has been 

filed against Liberty Foot Fear Company and not against the Liberty 

Retail Revolution Ltd. Liberty Retail Revolution Ltd is a group 

company and is engaged in retail sale of footwear. There is an 

agreement between Liberty Footwear Company and Liberty Retail 

Revolution Ltd and if required by the Court, the same can be produced. 

He denied the suggestion there is any agreement between the Liberty 

Footwear and Liberty Retail Revolution Ltd and stated that he did not 

remember the date and year of the agreement. The bills of Liberty 

Retail Revolution Ltd is produced as an evidence of the retail sale of 

the products bearing the mark Force­10. He denied the suggestion 

Liberty Retail Revolution Ltd has authorized him to file the Invoices 

or that any resolution has been passed by the Liberty Retail T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 100 of 122 101 Revolution Ltd in his favour. 171. Witness DW1 also stated that being the Director of Liberty 

Retail Revolution Ltd and being a group company, he has access to the 

records of Liberty Retail Revolution Ltd. He admitted the suggestion 

that he had not filed any MOA and AOA of Liberty Retail Revolution 

Ltd. 172. The above cross examination of DW1 shows that it is without 

any specific direction or objective. In fact, the cross examination of 

DW1 is at many a times an antithesis of what the plaintiff needed to 

establish. The case of the plaintiff is that even being a big fish, the 

defendant has no right to encroach upon its goodwill, exploit his trade 

mark for its business propagation or gain unjustly on the goodwill of 

the plaintiff generated over the years. When the plaintiff has argued 

that a big fish cannot eat the small fish, it is cognizant of the fact that 

he is the small fish and the defendant is the big fish. Thus in the cross 

examination of the DW1 the purpose would have been served by 

eliciting questions about the undue advantage gained by the defendant 

by using the goodwill and reputation of the plaintiff to his detriment 

and to the advantage of the defendant. However as the cross T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 101 of 122 102 examination is self­explanatory it fiercely tended to deny the very size, 

business model or sales of the defendant and thus it de­railed itself on 

some of very relevant aspects. Thus the cross examination of DW1 has 

lost its focus from what the plaintiff was required to prove and on the 

contrary went with vengeance to challenge and deny each and 

statement made by the witness DW1. The plaintiff without challenging 

the bills tendered on record vis­à­vis the sale of products under the 

trade mark 'Force­10'could have used the situation to its advantage by 

establishing that the said sales were achieved by riding upon the 

goodwill of the plaintiff, however the bus was missed. 173. It is not the business of the plaintiff (and for that matter of the 

defendant) to question the business model or business process 

outsourcing of the defendant. Being prudent businessmen, it is open to 

both the plaintiff and the defendant to adopt the suitable business 

model commensurate with the scale and size of their business. On 

person's food may be other person's poison. What may be the suitable 

model for business for plaintiff may prove to be catastrophic for the 

defendant and vice­versa. On a relative plane both the plaintiff and 

defendants are the best judge of their business model and none have the T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 102 of 122 103 right to challenge the wisdom of the other. 174. DW1 stated in his cross examination that the defendant has 

adopted Force­10 mark in the year 1991. The mark Force­10 was 

identified after doing the market research and was found appropriate 

for the range of sport shoes. He has filed an application for registration 

of mark Force­10 before the Registrar of Trade Mark. DW1 stated that 

he did not remember correctly whether any search was made with the 

Registrar of Trade Mark prior to the filing of application. He denied 

the suggestion that the sales figure mentioned in the para 6 does not 

pertain to the sale of Force­10 brand. He also denied the suggestion 

that he has not sold the products under Force­10 brands during the year 

1991­92. There is no sale bill of Force­10 of the year 1991 but CA 

certificate certifying the sales figure is filed on record. He denied the 

suggestion that similarly for the subsequent years, there is no sale of 

Force­10 brand from the year 1991 to 2002; or that the advertising 

expenses mentioned in para 6 of affidavit does not pertain to Force­10 

Brand. CA certificate certifying the advertising expenses for the brand 

Force­10 from the year 1991 is filed on the record. DW1 stated that 

he did not remember whether the bills for the advertisement are filed or T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 103 of 122 104 not but several magazines and newspapers carrying the advertisement 

of the product and brand Force­10 since 1991 have been filed on 

record. He denied the suggestion that in magazines and newspapers 

filed on record are registered with the statutory authority. Each and 

every newspapers and magazines filed on record is leading and 

respected publication of India and their registration numbers are duly 

mentioned on the back page of each of the magazines. He denied the 

suggestion that the copies of the magazines have been sent to statutory 

authorities. 175. DW1 admitted the suggestion that the mark Force and Force­10 

are identical and similar. 176. DW1 admitted the suggestion that Ex. DW 1/2 (page 1 to 29) 

contains promotional material including bag logo, artwork, booklets, 

brochures and carry­bags and original sample of the same are not 

produced or that he had not brought the original of the Ex. DW 1/3, Ex. 

DW 1/4 and Ex. DW 1/5, however, the legal proceeding certificate of 

the same is already on the record. e denied the suggestion that no tax 

returns have been filed and no taxes have been paid on the sales figures 

shown in the Ex. DW 1/6 and he volunteered to state that the same are T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 104 of 122 105 not on record. Ex. DW 1/7 (page 8 to 332) are the computer generated 

Invoices and are duly certified by the Company; the seal belongs to the 

company and the concerned officer had signed the same. DW1 stated 

that he did not know the name of the officer. All the computer 

generated invoices are authenticated and generated by protected 

software; the applicable taxes are shown on the Invoices which are 

duly paid regularly and tax returns are filed timely and assessed time to 

time. He denied the suggestion that the computers are protected by the 

softwares and Invoices filed are not computer generated. He admitted 

the suggestion the application no. 554196 is still pending for 

registration since 1991. The defendant has filed this application 

through a Firm namely Delhi Trade Mark Company. DW1 stated that 

he did not remember whether any examination report for the said trade 

mark was issued by the trade mark registry. He denied the suggestion 

that the examination report was issued by the trade mark registry to 

him or that the application no. 554196 has been withdrawn. He stated 

that he did not know whether this application has been withdrawn in 

October, 2001 by the Registrar of Trade Mark. 177. DW1 stated that he did not know whether any examination T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 105 of 122 106 report dated 09.11.195 bearing the mark 214282 was issued to him 

under application no. 554196. He denied the suggestion that as per 

examination report dated 09.11.1995, he had any knowledge of 

plaintiff trade mark Force under no. 214282. He denied the suggestion 

that the plaintiff trade mark was registered on 09.11.1995 as per Ex. 

DW 1/ P­1. DW1 stated that he had ascertained the continuous non 

use of the plaintiff trade mark no. 214282, therefore, he filed the 

rectification against the plaintiff for the said registration in the year 

1998. He denied the suggestion that the plaintiff mark is in continuous 

use since its adoption till date. DW1 stated that he did not remember 

how he ascertained the non use of the mark by the plaintiff but an 

examiner was appointed to search and find out in the local market at 

Agra where the plaintiff is based but no evidence of use was found 

since adoption of the FORCE mark by the plaintiff. However, it was 

ascertained that the plaintiff might be using Force as a trading style but 

no legal existence was available at the establishment or in the market. 

DW1 stated the he did not recollect the name of the examiner. It was a 

written report but he had not filed the same, however he could produce 

the same. The search was confined to Agra only. He denied the T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 106 of 122 107 suggestion that the search was not conducted in Agra. 178. Further DW1 admitted the suggestion that the defendant is 

selling its product nationwide including the state of Delhi. It seems 

from the cash memo bearing serial no.398 dated 28.04.2012 that B.C. 

Enterprises is a dealer of our group and has sold Force ­10 product 

produced by our group under the cash memo and the same is exhibited 

as Ex. DW 1/P­2. He denied the suggestion that the trade mark Force 

obtained by Mohd. Ahmad Miyan is legal, valid and subsisting in the 

eyes of law. He denied the suggestion that the trade mark Force of 

the plaintiff is prior to the trade mark Force­10 of the defendant and 

has been used continuously since its adoption till date. He denied the 

suggestion that the defendant has used the mark Force­10 malafidely 

and dishonestly. He denied the suggestion that the defendant has no 

right to use the same. He denied the suggestion that the trade mark of 

the defendant is similar to the trade mark of the plaintiff. 179. DW­2 Sh. Rajesh Oberoi is the Assistant Examiner from Trade 

Mark Registry New Delhi who is a summoned witness. The summon 

sent to witness for appearance and production of record is Ex. DW 2/C 

and DW 2/D. He had brought two legal proceedings certificate dated T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 107 of 122 108 24.05.2012 of the trade mark registrations no. 553998 in class 25(word 

mark), same is exhibited as DW2/A and trade mark no. 554494 in class 

25 (Label) same is exhibited as Ex.DW2/B. Both the trade marks are 

registered in favour of defendants and the same are still valid and 

subsisting. 180. In his cross examination DW2 stated that he had not brought the 

complete file of Ex.DW2/A and Ex.DW2/B and volunteered to state 

that as per the Act and Rules he has brought the computer generated 

record available with the office and same are exhibited as Ex.DW2/A 

and Ex.DW2/B. He was questioned as to what are the source of the 

information of the above Ex.DW2/A and Ex.DW2/B to which he 

replied that he had brought the computer data history records of the 

said two exhibits which are duly certified by the Assistant Registrar of 

Trade Mark. When questioned as to what is the status of above 

Ex.DW2/A and Ex.DW2/B he stated that Ex.DW2/A is registered in 

favor of the defendant and valid up to 08.07.2015 and Ex.DW2/B is 

also registered in favour of the defendant and valid up to 15.07.2021. 181. As discussed above, both the plaintiff and defendant are the 

registered proprietors of the trade mark 'FORCE' and 'FORCE 10' T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 108 of 122 109 respectively. The trade name of the plaintiff is 'FORCE FOOTWEAR 

COMPANY' and that of the defendant is 'LIBERTY SHOE 

COMPANY'. Thus the plaintiff has its brand value which is repository 

of its goodwill and reputation in the trade mark 'FORCE' and trade 

name 'FORCE FOOTWEAR COMPANY'. On the other hand, it has 

come on record that the brand value of defendant is in its trade name 

'LIBERTY FOOTWEAR COMPANY' and having its trade mark 

'FORCE 10' amongst other trademarks. Trade marks of both the 

parties are registered. 182. The defendant has relied upon the case of Smithkline Beecham 

PLC. & Anr. Vs. Sunil Sarmalkar & Ors. MANU/DE/5025/2012 to cite that the plaintiff is under an obligation to prove its entitlement to 

the reliefs of infringement and passing off even in cases which are ex­

parte. The plaintiff is not entitled to judgment unless it proves its 

case. 183. The above judgment relied upon by the defendant pronounces 

the axiomatic position of law. I have summed up the legal position in 

the earlier paras of my judgment by citing the various case law 

pertaining the appreciation of pleadings and evidence. T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 109 of 122 110 184. The case of Udai Chand Vs. Shankar Lal and Ors. (1978) 2 

SCC 209 has been relied upon by the defendant to cite the aspect of 

concealment of material fact or misrepresentation and its effect. Also 

cited is S.P.C.V. Naidu Vs. Jagannath and Ors. (1994) 1 SCC1 

which has held that non disclosure of relevant and material documents 

with a view to obtain undue advantage amounts to fraud. Satish 

Khosla Vs. M/s Eli Lilly Ranbaxy Ltd. & Anr. (71) (1998) Delhi 

Law Times 1 (DB) has also been relied upon to cite that concealment 

and non disclosure dis­entitle plaintiff to the relief. Also relied upon is 

M/s Seemax Construction (P) Ltd. Vs. State Bank of India AIR 

1992 DELHI 197 to cite that in case of suppression of material facts 

suit liable to be dismissed without going into the merits. 185. I am bound by the law laid down in the judgments relied upon by 

the defendant. However there is nothing to indicate that the plaintiff 

has pressed into service any material to deliberately way lay the Court 

or to suppress the material facts or documents. Whether the documents 

relied upon by a party do not support the stand of a party or do not 

propagate his case is a different matter altogether. There has to be 

dishonest element of concealment, falsehood or half truths which may T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 110 of 122 111 be cognizable and disentitle a party on this count. Weakness of pleas or 

documents not supporting a particular plea does not attract the 

mischief. 186. In all human endeavors absolute certainty is a myth. Thus in the 

legal jurisprudence, probability has been accepted as working 

substitute. The rival facts have to be tested in a relative manner, on the 

preponderance of probabilities and not in some absolute manner. 187. In view of the material on record, there is no room to hold that 

the plaintiff has in any way concealed or crooked as to gain some 

undue advantage. This plea of the defendant is thus rejected. 188. Further the case of Smithkline Beecham PLC. & Anr. Vs. 

Sunil Sarmalkar & Ors. MANU/DE/5025/2012 has also been relied 

upon by the defendant to cite that if there are no sales there cannot be 

distinctiveness; a trade mark has no meaning even if it is registered, 

unless it is used in relations to goods and/or services. A trademarks 

which drops out of the use, dies when there are no goods offered for 

sale as there is no use of the trademark. Trademarks cannot exist in 

vacuum. If there is non­use for a long period of time the mark would 

loss its distinctiveness or the mark is then permitted to die for non user. T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 111 of 122 112 In another case relied upon by the defendant as Alegran Inc. & Anr. 

vs. Intas Pharmaceuticals MANU/DE/5186/2012 it has been held 

that sales being sine qua non to establish a case of passing off, the 

plaintiff cannot succeed in absence of the same. 189. The defendant has further relied upon the case of Veerumal 

Praveen Kumar vs. Needle Industries (India) Ltd. & Anr. , 2001 

(93) DLT 600 to cite that no case for injunction is made out by mere 

registration when there is long non­user. The case of Fedders Lloyd 

Corporation Ltd. & Anr. Vs. Fedders Corporation & Anr. 119 

(2005) DLT 410 is also on similar aspect. The law pronounced in Santosh Devi & Ors. vs. Ramesh Kumar & Ors. 2007(34) PTC 219 

(Raj) pronounces that non user of mark for a long time dis­entitles the 

plaintiff from monopoly over the trademarks. 190. To counter the arguments of defendant plaintiff has relied upon Heinz Italia & Anr. vs. Dabur India Ltd. 2007 (35) PTC 1 (SC) to 

cite that it is sufficient if the plaintiff establishes prior user and that 

registration prior in point of time is irrelevant. The case of Pearl 

Appliances Private Limited vs. Jay Engineering Works Ltd., PTC T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 112 of 122 113 (Suppl ) (1) 390 (Del) has also been relied upon on the aspect of prior 

user citing that in the case in hand the plaintiff being the prior user and 

the defendant prior in registration since 1974; the plaintiff subsequent 

in registration since 1983 but the defendant subsequent in use, the 

question of use got precedence over the aspect of registration and thus 

the plaintiff was granted injunction. 191. The defendant relied upon J.R. Kapoor vs Micronix India; 

1994 PTC (14) 260 to cite that when the phonetic and visual effect of 

both the logos being not the same there is no question of confusion. The defendant has further relied upon P.M. Diesels vs. Thukral 

Mechanical Works AIR 1988 Delhi 282 in which case the provisions 

of Section 28(3) TMMA were found to be applicable as both the parties 

were the registered proprietor of identical trade mark "Field Marshel" 192. To refute the defendant's arguments case of M/s Hitachi Ltd., 

Vs. Ajay Kumar Agarwal & Ors 1996 PTC (16) (DB) (DEL) DB, 

had been relied upon by the plaintiff to cite that in that case the 

principles of passing off have been discussed. It was a case Hitachi 

versus Hitachi in which the scripting style and language of trade marks T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 113 of 122 114 were different and injunction was granted. It was also held that 

material date of accrual of cause of action is when plaintiff became 

aware of defendant's use. Citing parallel vis­à­vis the case in hand the 

plaintiff cited B.K. Engineering Company vs. U.B.H.I. Enterprises 

(Regd.) AIR 1985 DELHI 210 which is a case of B.K versus B.K. - 81. B.K. Engineering had been the trade name of plaintiff; B.K.-81 

trade mark of defendant and U.B.H.I - trade name of defendant. It was 

found to be a case of marks being deceptively similar to trade name of 

plaintiff. The plea of delay and acquiescence was also rejected stating 

that there was nothing to show that plaintiff encouraged defendant to 

go ahead with the impugned trade mark. Defendant's arguments that 

B.K. is his mother's name did not find favour with the Court and it has 

held to be untenable. It has been held that likelihood of deception 

enough; trading must not only be honest but must not even be 

unintentionally be unfair. 193. Reliance has been placed by the plaintiff upon N.R. Dongre and 

Others Vs. Whirlpool Corporation and Others AIR 1995 DELHI 

300 to cite that passing off can be maintained even against a registered 

trade mark. A registered trade mark can be restrained in a passing off T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 114 of 122 115 action [ Section 27 (2) ] based on prior user. In this case Case of P.M. 

Diesels vs. Thukral Mechanical Works AIR 1988 Delhi 282 is not 

followed as Section 27(2) not considered therein. Thus the reliance by 

the defendant on that case law is misplaced. 194. Plaintiff has also relied upon a catena of case law. In Ellora 

Industries Vs. Banarasi Dass Goela AIR 1980 DELHI 254 

plaintiff's trade mark ELORA was confronted vis­à­vis defendant's 

trade name ELLORA INDUSTRIES and it was held that passing off is 

made out. Plaintiff also relied upon Girnar Tea and Another Vs. 

Brooke Bond (India) Ltd. 1990 (2) Arb. L.R 149 (BOM) (DB) in 

which it has been held that the persons to be deceived are purchasers of 

the goods; purpose of comparison is to determine essential feature of 

the mark; plaintiff protected even if for the moment a trader; plaintiff 

cannot be confined to present mode; sales and reputation cannot be 

confined to existing customers. It was held that the plaintiff is to be 

protected even if small dealer compared to giant defendant. 

Defendant's adoption was fraudulent as there is no explanation as to 

why he adopted as the defendant was aware of plaintiffs mark at the 

time of adoption. The plaintiff also cited the case of M/s Hindustan T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 115 of 122 116 Pencils Pvt. Ltd., Vs. M/s India Stationery Products Co., and Anr. 

AIR 1990 DELHI 19 wherein it has been held that circumstances 

attending to the adoption of the mark by the defendant at the first 

instance are of importance; if the user at inception is tainted, it cannot 

be purified subsequently. 195. Plaintiff has also Bal Pharma vs. Centaur Laboratories 2002 

(24) PTC 226 (Bom) (DB) has been cited to show that it is necessary 

for defendant to take out search and if no search is taken out prior to 

adoption and use, defendant's user is neither honest nor concurrent. In 

the same vein the case of Revlon Inc., Vs. Sarita Manufacturing Co. 1997 PTC (17) 394 (DEL) has been relied upon to cite that if 

defendant for no good reason adopts plaintiffs prior marks adoption is 

dishonest and injunction to follow; adverse inference to be drawn that 

it wants to cash on plaintiff's name and reputation. Even if defendant 

honest concurrent user injunction to be issued even if inordinate delay. 

Interest of general public which is third party in the suit to be 

protected. Infringers who are aware of plaintiff's prior mark must be 

aware of the consequences that would follow and any use by defendant 

after becoming aware of plaintiffs prior rights is at his own risk and T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 116 of 122 117 peril. 196. The case of N.R. Dongre and Ors vs. Whirlpool Corporation 

and Others AIR 1995 DELHI 300 has been relied upon by the 

defendant also. The case of Micolube India Ltd. Vs. Maggon Auto 

Centre ; 2010 (42) PTC 462 (Del.) has been relied upon by the 

defendant stating that the ld. counsel for the plaintiff Sh. S. K. Bansal 

had represented the plaintiffs in the cited case. Case has been relied 

upon on the aspect that when both the parties have obtained registration 

in their favour regarding same trade mark and rectification application 

have been filed after the filing of the suit and none of the parties took 

the permission of the court before filing their respective application. 

Suit regarding the infringement stayed till the pendency of rectification 

application but the suit for passing of directed to continue. 197. 'Proof of pudding lies in the eating' goes the saying. Similarly 

the strength of a trade mark lies in its usage notwithstanding the factum 

of registration or no registration. On the other hand there is aspect of 

honest concurrent usage. Thus the respective rights and liabilities of 

the parties have to be weighed considering the overall circumstances. 

In these matters, the right of the consumer must also not go unheard in T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 117 of 122 118 the tug of war between the parties as it is also a stakeholder and it is for 

whom the bells toll. 198. In the case in hand as both the parties have used their respective 

trade marks on account of their respective registration, the question of 

infringement does not arise. If the plaintiff has not been able to get his 

recordal vis­à­vis the assignment deed (on account of the file having 

been lost etc.) the same is for the reasons beyond its control and this 

fact should not be taken as a circumstance against him. 199. As far as the evidence on record goes to show in its cumulative 

effect, the adoption of trade mark 'FORCE 10' by it does not appear to 

be tainted with an element of dishonesty. It has carried out the 

investigation prior to its adoption as per DW2 and it has not been 

suggested to him that the trade name of the plaintiff and its trade mark 

'FORCE' figured in the search investigation and despite being 

cognizant of the same the defendant continued with the adoption of the 

said trade mark. Thus the element of dishonesty on the part of 

defendant is conspicuous by absence. 200. If the trade mark of the plaintiff 'FORCE' has behind it the 

support of the goodwill and reputation of its business concern 'FORCE T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 118 of 122 119 FOOTWEAR COMPANY' the defendant also sails in the same boat. 

Behind its trade mark 'FORCE 10' is also the goodwill and reputation 

of its business concern 'LIBERTY FOOTWEAR COMPANY'. It has 

come in evidence that it has an extensive sales network and outlets. 

The plaintiff has only given suggestion to refute the defendant's stand 

but has brought nothing tangible to displace the same. The plaintiff has 

in so many words admitted to be the giant against whom he has been 

pitted saying that the big fish cannot eat the small fish. 201. The plaintiff has not brought on record the evidence of any 

customer who has been taken for a ride by taking the goods originating 

from the defendant as if they have any association with the plaintiff. 

The evidence as led on record does not cut much ice in favour of the 

plaintiff, despite he being the prior adopter of the mark 'FORCE' and 

the mark of the defendant 'FORCE 10' being the same/similar. It 

appears that the scale of operation, the trading channels and brand 

equities of the plaintiff and defendant are so different that the passing 

off is ruled out in practical terms, though it may have its presence for 

academic interests on account of phonetic and visual similarity of the 

rival trade marks. T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 119 of 122 120 202. Passing­off is a remedy which is based in equity. Considering 

the outcome of the entire evidence on record, in the facts and 

circumstances of the case, it cannot be said to be a case of per se 

passing off on the part of the defendant. 203. However it cannot be denied that the mark 'FORCE 10'of the 

defendant has a potential of the playing the mischief as due to its visual 

and phonetic similarity can likely to cause confusion and deception. 

The factum of registration of trademark is only a shield for the 

defendant, it cannot be used as a sword. More so, notwithstanding the 

tug­of­war between the parties to the lis, the concerns of the main 

stakeholder i.e. the ultimate consumer or the public at large must be 

answered. 204. These issues are answered accordingly. Issue no.3 If issue no. 1 or issue no. 2 or both of them is/are 
proved in affirmative, whether the plaintiff is entitled to a decree 
for delivery up as prayed in prayer clause iii of the plaint? OPP
 &
Issue no.4. Whether the plaintiff is entitled to a decree of rendition 
of accounts as prayed for in prayer clause iv of the plaint? OPP 205. In view of my findings on the above issues, no tangible or T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 120 of 122 121 perceptible damage has occasioned to the plaintiff on account of the 

acts and omissions of the defendant, the plaintiff is not entitled to the 

any relief of delivery up etc. of infringing material or for rendition of 

accounts. Hence these issues are answered against the plaintiff. Issue no.5. Relief 206. It is not only the power of the Court but also its sacrosanct duty 

to mould the relief to meet the ends of justice. This is more so relevant 

when the court has to protect the public at large so that the consumer is 

not taken for a ride. 207. In view of my findings on the above issues and in order to 

safeguard the interest of the plaintiff and also to ensure that the 

consumers take an informed decision in the matter it is directed as 

under:­

 "The suit of the plaintiff is decreed thereby 

 passing a decree of mandatory injunction 

 against the defendant, its associates, assigns, 

 agents, administrators etc. that whenever using 

 the trademark 'FORCE 10' on any of its 

 products, packagings, advertisements or T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 121 of 122 122 promotional material etc. the caution that 'the 

 trade mark FORCE 10 has no connection with 

 the trade mark FORCE of FORCE 

 FOOTWEAR COMPANY, AGRA' be printed 

 conspicuously. The caution be printed in a font 

 size of not less that 12 of the font TIMES NEW 

 ROMAN or an equivalent font which is easily 

 readable." 208. The suit of plaintiff is partly decreed in the above terms. 209. Parties to bear their own costs. 210. Decree Sheet be drawn accordingly. 211. File be consigned to the Record Room. Announced in the Open Court 
today on 04th day of December 2012 
 (Man Mohan Sharma) 
 ADJ (Central)­1, Delhi T.M. No. 97/2011 Naseer Ahmad vs. Liberty Footwear Company Page 122 of 122