15.07.2025 1. Through the medium of the instant petition having been filed under

 the provisions of Section 482 of Bhartiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita,

 2023, (hereinafter referred to as the "BNSS" for short), the petitioner has

 sought the grant of pre-arrest bail in his favour in respect of the case No.

 ECIRO/SRZO/922 U/ss 3 & 4 of Prevention of Money Laundering Act 2002, (hereinafter referred to as the "PMLA" for short), registered with

 respondent No.1 on the grounds, inter alia that he is a law abiding and

 peace loving citizen of India having deep roots and commanding great

 respect in the society; that he is presently residing at House No. 63 Ghati

 River Valley, Dhoran Goan, Dehradun alongwith his family since June,

 2019 in connection with the higher studies of his children, having his

 permanent address as VPO Lath The-Gohana, Sonipat, Haryana; that he is

 having clear antecedents at his credit and has never been involved in any 2 case till the time the respondent No.1 implicated him falsely and frivolously

in ECIR/02/SRZO/2022 U/ss 3 and 4 of PMLA, despite himself being a

victim of the alleged crime; that the main accused whose names came first

in the basic complaint filed before the District Magistrate, Leh namely A.R

Mir and Ajay Kumar Choudhary have already been granted bail which fact

entitles him to be treated with parity; that all the evidence referred to by the

respondent no.1 is documentary in nature and as such there is no need of

his custodial interrogation in the case; that the investigation in the case has

been pending since long and the final charge report is yet to be filed; that he

knew about the registration of the case with the Directorate of respondent

No.1 only on 25.01.2025 when the personnel from ED conducted a raid at

his house in Dehradun as he had been named by one of the co-accused; that

till the filing of the application he did not receive any notice or information

for association with the Investigation Agency; that he was not knowing that

his brother with whom he is not having cordial relationship was being

investigated for a crime; that it was subsequently learnt by him that

adjudicating Authority on 14.01.2025, on the basis of some summons dated

14.12.2024 purportedly issued against him for his appearance through

video conferencing (VC) before him on 27.12.2024, which notice he never

received, had passed ex-parte attachment order without application of mind

and appreciation of facts; that he is ready and willing to associate during

investigation of the case and to make his statements in respect of the

required issues; that he is a Matriculate of 1997 who joined the Indian Army

on 28.04.1998 from Rohtak BRO and during his service period rendered

services at so many places including Jabalpur, Jammu, Leh, Delhi, UN

Peace keeping force (Congo) and after rendering the services for 18 years,

finally took VRS on 31.01.2016 when he was holding the rank of Hawaldar; 3 that in the year 2017 he was approached by the owner of a Company

namely "Emollient Coin" to work with the same, as an employee

(promoter); that he was offered to serve the Company on account of his past

administrative experience from military career; that he also attended

various meetings and seminars for which he was paid by the Company; that

he was also required to invested some amount and to also associate/refer

some of his friends and relatives with the business concern of the company;

that he invest a sum of Rs. 10/- lacs from his retirement fund and besides

prevailed upon some of his acquaintances to also join the business of the

company; that he had no relation in terms of ownership with "The Emollient

Coin Ltd" bearing registration no. 10987434 being incorporated on

28.09.2017 with its Registered office at 90, Paul Street old street Shoreditch

London, UK with Henry Maxwell R/o 110, Theydon Street Walthamstow,

London U.K; that a case FIR No. 16/2020 dated 05.03.2020 came to be

registered against A.R Mir & Ajay Kumar Choudhary at Police station Leh,

Ladakh U/s 420 IPC corresponding to Section 318 of the BNSS; that it is

wrongly alleged that he represents the "Emollient company Ltd" as

promoter in India and abroad with Mr. Channi Singh as promoter in North

India; that it is also wrongly alleged that the said company was dissolved

on 05.03.2019; that it is also wrongly alleged that another company "M/s

Tech Coin Ltd" was registered on 25.03.2019 to run the Ponzi scheme of

fake crypto currency "Emollient/Tech Coin" which company was also

dissolved on 12.01.2021 thereby cheating hundreds of people; that it is

wrongly alleged that he and the other two co-accused have lured innocent

public to purchase self-generated Emollient fake crypto currency by taking

cash or money transferred into the bank accounts under the control of

suspects; that it is also wrongly alleged that they exchanged their bit coins 4 with the said crypto-currency through their mobile applications with the

assurance of 10% monthly returns with the locking period of 10 months to

be extended to 20 months with offer of 7% commission on the public

investment; that it is also wrongly alleged that the afore-named Ajay

Kumar and A.R Mir as Directors of Company "Annie Multi Trade Private

Limited" had also opened an account with the J&K Bank at Jammu and

parked the proceeds obtained under the aforesaid Ponzi scheme with

intention to purchase plots/land; that it is also wrongly alleged without any

documentary proof that he received Rs.2.05 Crores from Sh. Ajay Kumar

Choudhary (co-accused) out of the business income from "The Emollient

Coin Ltd"; that it is also wrongly alleged that huge amount in Crores was

credited to their bank accounts out of the money received from the public by

cheating them under the "The Emollient Coin scheme"; that the house

which was raided by the Directorate of the respondent No.1 was not

belonging to him at that time; that no statement recorded U/s 50 of the

PMLA is admissible against the accused; that no incriminating evidence

has been found by the investigating agency against him and instead fake and

concocted stories have been hatched regarding the receipt of cash by him

and his brother just as an eyewash to falsely implicate and make him a

scape goat to shield the actual culprits; that he is not involved in any

alleged act of money laundering and has only been made a scapegoat for the

crimes done by the others despite himself being the victim of

the crime; that he had already filed a similar application before the High

Court of Delhi which came to be withdrawn by him with liberty to approach

this jurisdictional Court; that he was never named in the basic

complaint/FIR; that other co-accused have already been granted regular and

anticipatory bail which justifies his equal treatment on parity; that he is 5 willing to surrender his passport before the adjudicating authority or any

other authority as directed by the court; that he shall be greatly prejudiced in

terms of his fundamental rights of life and liberty in case he is being arrested

on false and frivolous grounds; that since he is deeply rooted in the society

as such there is no question of his misusing the concession of bail and that

he shall abide by any conditions that may be imposed by this Court. 2. The respondent No.1 i.e., Enforcement Directorate has very

vehemently resisted the bail application on the grounds that all the

averments, grounds and submissions made by the petitioner in the bail

application are absolutely false, vague, non-specific, baseless and concocted

warranting outright rejection of the petition. That the petitioner is not a

senior citizen as alleged as his Date of Birth (DOB) is 4 th June 1981 which

reveals him of the age of 46 years only. That the petitioner cannot seek

parity as the case of each individual accused is to be considered and

appreciated in its own backdrop. That the petitioner has been evading

investigation and has demonstrably failed to co-operate with authorities.

That despite being served with multiple summons he has persistently

sought to elude the legal process thereby indicating clear intention to

frustrate the course of justice. That the petitioner is involved in heinous and

multi-dimensional economic scam, as such, cannot claim extra ordinary

concession of pre-arrest bail. That the petitioner cannot raise the issue on

admissibility or otherwise of the evidence being collected by the

Investigating Agency at the initial stage of investigation as being the concern

of the trial. That the petitioner is the actual master mind who was the

promoter and managed the company "The Emollient Coin Ltd" for running

the business of selling a fake "crypto currency" and "Emollient Coin" and 6 chain multi-level marketing business. That he also designed and managed

fake mobile applications "Emollient Coin" for the said fraud scheme which

was under his control. That however, the said company was deliberately

struck off and dissolved on 05.03.2019, whereafter with ill intention he

incorporated another company "M/s Tech Coin Ltd" registration no.

11903739 dated 25th March 2019 with its registered office at the same place

of the "The Emollient Coin Ltd". That in Sept., 2019 the value of the said

fake coin was deliberately driven down by the applicant before the

completion of locking period and the said mobile application suddenly

stopped working in the month of October/November 2019, thereby cheating

hundreds of gullible people who lost their hard earned money, however, the

said company was also dissolved on 12.01.2021. That the petitioner along

with various team leaders namely Ajay Kumar Choudhary and A. R Mir had

organized various seminars and at many places in India including J&K and

Ladakh and also in other countries including Vietnam, Philippines, and

Cambodia to entice the people into the said Ponzi Scheme. That the

petitioner and other co-accused dishonestly lured hundreds of innocent

people not only from India but also from South Asian countries to purchase

self-generated fake crypto Emollient Coin by taking cash or money

transferred into the bank accounts under the control of suspects or exchange

their "bit coin" with the said "crypto coin" through their mobile application

with the assurance of returns up to 40% with the locking period of 10

months to be extendable to 20 months with the promise of commission up

to 7% on the investment made by the subscribers. That during the course of

investigation searches under section 17 of PMLA were conducted at six

premises of Shri Ajay Kumar Choudhary, A. R Mir, Mrs. Tashi Lambo and

Shri Naresh Gulia on 02.08.2024 and various documents were seized during 7 the course of such searches across Jammu, Leh and Sonipat (Haryana). That

the evidence was scrutinized and modus operandi unearthed. It is stated that

in respect of retention of seizure of cash, digital devices and bank accounts,

an OA bearing No.1311/2024 dated 29.08.2024 was filed before the learned

Adjudicating Authority under PMLA, New Delhi on 30.8.2024 which was

confirmed by the learned Adjudicating Authority on 06.01.2025. That during

the course of search, the petitioner was not available at his address i.e., Gali

No. 24, Mayur Vihar, Sec-21, Sonipat, Haryana. That during the course of

such search dated 02.08.2024, cash amount of Rs. 91/- lac has been seized

under the Panchnama. That the co-accused Mr. Ajay Kumar Choudhary

and A. R Mir during their statements admitted the handing over of the cash

to the petitioner through the desired mode. That during the course of

investigation it has been established that petitioner is in possession of

proceeds of crime to the tune of Rs. 6.05 Crores who despite receiving two

summons for recording his statement U/s 50 of the PMLA is intentionally

and deliberately avoiding his association, for siphoning of the proceeds of

crime accumulated by him. That the petitioner is not co-operating in the

investigation which is causing injustice to the innocent people who invested

their hard earned money bonafidely in the said bogus "Crypto

currency/Emollient Coin" Ponzi scheme of the petitioner. That petitioner has

wrongly invoked the jurisdiction of this court seeking of pre-arrest bail as

he has failed to establish the proximity between his act and the jurisdiction

of this court invoked by him. That the bar imposed U/s 45 of the PMLA

under the twin conditions is applicable in case of regular bail and as such the

said twin conditions are deemed to be imported with great force in an

anticipatory bail application. That the proceeds of crime generated by

offences committed by all the accused have been traced out to the tune of 8 Rs. 6.05 crores which specifically involved the petitioner to the tune of

Rs.57/- lacs as said amount was found to have been transferred by Shri A.R

Mir and Ajay Kumar Choudhary from the bank account of M/s Annie

Multitrade Pvt. Ltd to the nominated accounts of the petitioner as per his

directions. That there are more than 2000 people in Leh alone who have

been cheated through the scam under investigation. That the petitioner has

been absconding and his last known whereabouts were in Thailand as per the

investigation conducted by the respondent. That he has not joined the

investigation despite receiving the summons from the respondent and thus

their exists strong suspicion that he is not within the territorial limits of

India. That the petitioner's presence in custody is imperative for the logical

and result oriented investigation. 3. I have heard the learned counsel for the parties and considered their

submissions. The law referred to and relied upon from both the sides has

also been perused. 4. The facts of the prosecution case are that based on a compliant

received from the Additional District Magistrate, Leh, an FIR No. 16/2020

dated 05.03.2020 was registered under Section 420 of IPC, 1860 by the

Police at Police Station, Leh against Mr. A.R. Mir S/o Aziz Mir, Mr. Ajay

Kumar Choudhary S/o Satpal Choudhary & Others. That as per the said

FIR, an inquiry was conducted by the committee constituted by District

Magistrate Leh against Mr. A. R. Mir and his agents who were running an

Emollient coin business from the office located at Anjuman Moin-Ul-

complex opposite SNM Hospital, Leh which was sealed by the said

committee for cheating many innocent individuals by assuring them to

double their investment. That an FIR No. 16/2020 dated 05.03.2020 was 9 registered under Section 420 of IPC which is a scheduled offence under Part-

A, Paragraph 1 of Scheduled to PMLA, 2002, an ECIR bearing No.

ECIR/SRZO/02/2022 dated 25.03.2022 was recorded and investigation

under PMLA, 2022 was initiated. That the District Police Office Leh

(Ladakh) vide its letter dated 07.03.2022 informed that the scheduled

offence has generated proceeds of crime by way investments made by 2508

investors to the tune of Rs. 7,34,36,267/- Crore (approx.). That, during the

course of investigation, Proceeds of Crime are estimated to the tune of Rs.

16.81 Crore. That the estimation has been calculated as per the material in

shape of bank account statements, ITRs and statement recorded under Section 50 of Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002. That the

petitioner is the actual master mind who was the promoter and managed the

company "The Emollient Coin Ltd" for running the business of selling a

fake "crypto currency" and "Emollient Coin" and chain multi-level

marketing business. That he also designed and managed fake mobile

applications "Emollient Coin" for the said fraud scheme which was under The cases in which accused is implicated with the help of section 34 and 149 of the Indian Penal Code, the court
 should consider with even greater care and caution because
 over implication in the cases is a matter of common
 knowledge and concern; h) While considering the prayer for grant of anticipatory bail, a
 balance has to be struck between two factors namely, no
 prejudice should be caused to the free, fair and full
 investigation and there should be prevention of harassment,
 humiliation and unjustified detention of the accused; i) The court to consider reasonable apprehension of tampering
 of the witness or apprehension of threat to the complainant; 14 j) Frivolity in prosecution should always be considered and it
 is only the element of genuineness that shall have to be
 considered in the matter of grant of bail and in the event
 of there being some doubt as to the genuineness of the prosecution in
 the normal course of events, the accused is entitled to an order of bail. 9. In its judgment titled Sushila Aggarwal and ors vs. State (NCT of

Delhi) and another decided on 29th January 2020, a larger bench of

Hon'ble Apex Court was pleased to inter-alia lay down the following

guiding principles for consideration of the pre-arrest bail application by

the Courts: PC [by virtue of Section 438. (ii) The need to impose other restrictive conditions, would have
 to be judged on a case by case basis, and depending upon the
 materials produced by the state or the investigating agency.
 Such special or other restrictive conditions may be imposed if
 the case or cases warrant, but should not be imposed in a
 routine manner, in all cases. Likewise, conditions which limit
 the grant of anticipatory bail may be granted, if they are
 required in the facts of any case or cases; however, such
 limiting conditions may not be invariably imposed. (iii) Courts ought to be generally guided by considerations such
 as the nature and gravity of the offences, the role attributed to
 the applicant, and the facts of the case, while considering
 whether to grant anticipatory bail, or refuse it. Whether to
 grant or not is a matter of discretion; equally whether and if
 so, what kind of special conditions are to be imposed (or not
 imposed) are dependent on facts of the case, and subject to
 the discretion of the court. (iv) Anticipatory bail granted can, depending on the conduct and
 behaviour of the accused, continue after filing of the charge
 sheet till end of trial. An order of anticipatory bail should not 15 be blanket in the sense that it should not enable the accused
 to commit further offences and claim relief of indefinite
 protection from arrest. It should be confined to the offence or
 incident, for which apprehension of arrest is sought, in
 relation to a specific incident. It cannot operate in respect of a
 future incident that involves commission of an offence. (v) An order of anticipatory bail does not in any manner limit or
 restrict the rights or duties of the police or investigating
 agency, to investigate into the charges against the person who
 seeks and is granted pre−arrest bail. 10. Admittedly, while considering the anticipatory bail under section 482

of the BNSS, the court has to primarily satisfy itself regarding the conditions

precedent for seeking such special relief and when such prior conditions are

fulfilled, then the court has to consider all those principles and guiding

rules which are necessary under law for consideration of a regular bail

application., inter alia including the following: (AIR 1962 SC 253; AIR 1978 SC 179: AIR 1978 429; 2003(ii)
 SLJ 389; 2004 (7) SCC 525; 2005 (1) SLJ 189; AIR 2005 SC
 716; AIR 2007 SC 32458; AIR 2007 SC 451 and 2007 (ii) SLJ 634. 11. The Hon'ble Apex Court in Gur Bakash Singh vs. State of Punjab

AIR 1980 SC 1632, referred to the following extract from the American

jurisprudence having bearing on the subject of bail, "where the grant of

bail lies within discretion of the court, granting or denial is regulated to

a large extent, by the facts and circumstances of each particular case.

Since the object of detention order/imprisonment of the accused is to

secure his appearance and submission to jurisdiction and the judgment

of the court, the preliminary enquiry is whether a recognizance or bond

would effect that end. It is thus clear that the question whether to grant

bail or not depends for its answer upon a variety of circumstances, the

cumulative effect of which must enter into the judicial verdict. Any one

single circumstance cannot be treated as of universal validity or

necessarily justifying the grant or refusal of bail." 12. It has been held in State of Rajasthan Jaipur vs. Balchand AIR

1977 SC 2447 I that it is true that the gravity of the offence involved is

likely to induce the petitioner to avoid the course of justice and must

weigh with the court when considering the question of bail. 13. It is a trite that two paramount considerations viz: likelihood of

accused fleeing from justice and his tampering with prosecution

evidence relate to the ensuring of fair trial of the case in a court of

justice, It is essential that due and proper weightage should be bestowed

on these two factors apart from others. The requirements as to bail are 17 merely to secure the attendance of the accused at the trial ( Gurcharan

Singh vs. State (Delhi Administration ) AIR 1978 SC 179; G. Nara

Simhula vs. Public Prosecutor Andhra Pradesh AIR 1978 SC 429; Assad

Ullah Khan and Others vs. State of Jammu & Kashmir SLJ 1980 J&K

31; Jeet Ram and etc. etc. vs. State of Himachal Pradesh 2003 Cr. Law

Journal 736). 14. Bail or jail at the pre-trial or post conviction stage belongs to the

blurred area of the criminal justice system and largely hinges on the

hunch of the bench, otherwise called judicial discretion. Personal liberty

deprived when bail is refused is too precious a value of our constitutional

system recognized under Article 21 that the crucial power to negate it is

a great trust exercisable not casually but judiciously with lively concern

for the cost to the individual and the community. After all personal

liberty of an accused or convict is fundamental, suffering lawful eclipse

only in terms of procedure established by law (G. N. Nara Simhula vs.

Public Prosecutor Andhra Pradesh AIR 1978 SC 429). 15. Admittedly the provisions of Section 45 of PMLA restrict granting of

even regular bail to an accused involved in the offences under the Act by

laying down the twin conditions requiring an opportunity of being provided

to the Public Prosecutor to oppose the bail application and after the said

opportunity is provided to the Public Prosecutor the court is satisfied that

there are reasonable grounds for believing that he is not guilty of such

offence and that he is not likely to commit any offence while on bail. 16. It is profitable to reproduce the provision of Section 45 PMLA for the

sake of convenience:- [(1A) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal
 Procedure , 1973 (2 of 1974), or any other provision of this Act, no police officer
 shall investigate into an offence under this Act unless specifically authorised, by
 the Central Government by a general or special order, and, subject to such
 conditions as may be prescribed.]
 (2) The limitation on granting of bail specified in *** sub-section (1) is in 5 addition to the limitations under the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973 (2 of
 1974) or any other law for the time being in force on granting of bail'. 17. The petitioner is alleged to be involved in heinous offences of

economic nature by being connected with the proceeds of crime. He is

alleged to have cheated thousands of people by luring them to part with their

hard earned money under the false hope and expectation of high percentage

of profit/commission, by dragging them to the bogus "crypto

currency/Emollient Coin" Ponzi Scheme. 18. The petitioner is alleged to have absconded during investigation of the

case and to have not turned up for cooperation with the investigating agency

despite issuance of formal notices under law. 19. The presence of the accused in custody before the Investigating

 Agency appears to be imperative in the facts and circumstances of the case

 for the logical and result oriented investigation in the case. 20. For the fore going discussion, there appears to be no merit in the

 application which is dismissed. (Mohd Yousuf Wani)
 Judge
Jammu
15.07.2025
Ayaz i) Whether the judgment/order is reportable? Yes ii) Whether the judgment/order is speaking ? Yes