The appellant/plaintiff has preferred this appeal against the judgment and decree dated 20.10.2000 made in O.S.No.9100 of 1995 by the learned II Assistant Judge, City Civil Court, Madras, in dismissing the suit claim of Rs.6,06,265/- along with interest at 18% per annum from the date of plaint till date of realisation etc. against the second respondent/second defendant company liability to pay the suit amount. 2.The essential facts of the case are set out below: 3.The trial Court has framed in all three issues for determination. On an appreciation of oral and documentary evidence and after analysing the same in depth, the trial Court has come to the conclusion that the appellant/ plaintiff is entitled to claim the suit amount from the first respondent/first defendant (employee) alone and not from the second respondent/second defendant (employer) and accordingly, passed a decree directing the first respondent/ first defendant to pay a sum of Rs.6,06,265/- together with interest on Rs.4,01,500/- at 18% per annum from the date of plaint i.e. 30.1.1995 till the date and thereafter at 12% per annum till the date of realisation etc. and also directed the first respondent/ first defendant to pay a cost of Rs.24,948/- to the appellant/plaintiff. 4.Dissatisfied with the judgment and decree made in O.S.No.185 of 1995 by the trial Court, the appellant/ plaintiff has projected this appeal before this Court. 5.The point for arises for determination in this appeal is: 6.The learned counsel for the appellant/plaintiff contends that the second respondent/second defendant company an employer of the first respondent/first defendant is vicariously liable for the tortious act committed by the first respondent during the course of his employment with the second respondent/second defendant and that the trial Court has committed an error in not taking note of the negligence aspect of the second respondent/second defendant and that as an employer the second respondent/second defendant failed in its duty to take diligent care to prevent the theft of shares and therefore, the second respondent/second defendant company is squarely and equally responsible to make good the loss sustained by the appellant/plaintiff has to be allowed to prevent an aberration of justice. 7.The main thrust of the argument of the appellant/ plaintiff proceeds on the basis that the second respondent/ second defendant company as an employer of the first respondent/first defendant, on account of its carelessness and negligence had allowed its employee viz., the first respondent/first defendant to meddle with the share certificates lodged for transfer and the first respondent/ first defendant took advantage of the negligence of the second respondent/second defendant and resultantly, came into the possession of the certificates and committed impersonation as one T.Sathyanarayana and sold and appropriated the amount and therefore, the respondents 1 and 2 are jointly and severally liable to pay the amount claimed by the appellant/plaintiff. 8.Countering the submissions of the learned counsel for the appellant, the learned counsel appearing for the second respondent/second defendant submits that the first respondent/first defendant was working only in the Speciality Coatings Division of the company and that he was not working in the secretarial division as averred in the plaint and further the second respondent/second defendant company had shifted their residence from 826, Anna Road, Tharapur Towers to 124 Greams Road, Chennai from 16.12.1991 after fulfilling the requirements of law and also intimating the shareholders individually and that the Speciality Coatings Division only continued in the said registered office address, notwithstanding the fact that the registered office was shifted and the first respondent/first defendant who was the Manager of the Speciality Coatings Division took possession of the documents sent by Vipul N.Dhami of Bombay and later sold it to the appellant/plaintiff and immediately when the second respondent/second defendant came to know of the fraud committed by the first respondent/first defendant lodged a police complaint and reported the matter to the SEBI and all Stock Exchange authorities and hence, no liability could be tagged on to the second respondent/second defendant. 9.The learned counsel for the appellant/plaintiff in support of his contention that the second respondent/second defendant was to pay the suit amount to the appellant because of its negligence relies on the decision of Director of Public Prosecutions V. Kent and Sussex Contractors, Limited 1944 Company Cases page 133 wherein it is held as follows: 10.He also further relies on the observations made in page 135 and 136 of the aforesaid judgment which are extracted hereunder: 11.Continuing further in the above decision, the learned counsel for the appellant relies on the following observations: 12.Moreover, he also brings it to the notice of the observations made in page 141 of the aforesaid judgment which are as below: 13.Further, in the aforesaid decision at page 142, it is held as follows: 14.Further, he relies on the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Sitaram V. Santanuprasad Jaishanker Bhatt in AIR 1966 Supreme Court 1697 whereby and whereunder it is held as follows: 15.Continuing further, he also presses into service the following observation made in the aforesaid judgment at page 1705 which are extracted as follows: (31)The scope of employment of a servant need not of course be viewed narrowly, but the essential element that the wrong must be committed by the servant during the course of the employment, i.e. in doing the master's business ought always to be present." 16.However, the learned counsel for the second respondent/second defendant, in aid of his argument that no liability can be roped in on the second respondent/second defendant company, cites the decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court in Sitaram V. Santanuprasad Jaishanker Bhatt in AIR 1966 Supreme Court 1697 at page 1704 wherein it is inter alia held as follows: 17.Besides this, the learned counsel for the second respondent also cites the following observations made in paras 30 and 31 of the aforesaid judgment at page 1704 and 1705 which are as follows: 31. The scope of employment of a servant need not of course be viewed narrowly, but the essential element that the wrong must be committed by the servant during the course of the employment, i.e., in doing the master's business ought always to be present. In Century Insurance Co. V. Northern Ireland Road Transport Board, 1942 accused 509 the driver of a petrol lorry while transferring petrol from the lorry to an underground tank, struck a march to light a cigarette and threw it on the floor, and there by caused a fire and explosion which did great damage. The masters were held liable because the negligence was in the discharge of the duty by the servant. Although the act of lighting the cigarette was something the driver did for himself and was by itself quite harmless, it could not be regarded in the abstract and was a negligent method of conducting the master's work. Similarly, in Smith v. Martin and Kingston-upon-Hull Corpn. 1911 2 KB 775 at P.784 a school authority was held liable when a teacher, during school hours sent a girl aged 14 wearing a print pinafore to poke the fire and to draw out the damper in a grate in the teachers' common room and the child was burnt. It was held that the teacher's duty was to provide education in the widest sense and included expecting obedience from the pupils and this was an act of negligence in the discharge of such duty." 18.He also presses into service another decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court in State Bank of India V. Shyama Devi in AIR 1978 Supreme Court 1263 at page 1264 wherein it is among other things held that 'In such a case, the fact that false and fictitious entries to cover up his fraud were made by the employee in the Pass Book of the client and in the Ledger Account of the husband could not make the embezzlement committed by the employee an act committed in the course of his employment with the bank. Consequently, the bank was not liable to make good the loss caused to the client by the act of the employee because the latter in such a case would be deemed to have acted as an agent of the client and not within the scope of his employment with the bank." 19.The learned counsel for the second respondent has referred to Sec.51 , 53 and 108 of the Companies Act which refers to service of documents on company, service of documents on merits by company, and the transfer not to be registered except on production of instrument of transfer. 20.In Ex.A.1 the order form dated 17.3.1992 in the name of T.Sathyanarayana, addressed to appellant/plaintiff, wherein a request was made to sell the 350 shares to second respondent/second defendant at the market rate. A perusal of Ex.A.4 xerox copy of FIR shows that the Manager-Secretarial of the second respondent company Mr.R.Janakiraman is the complainant. In the said complaint, theft, forgery and cheating in connection with the transfer of shares has been made mention of. Based on the Ex.A.4, the police have registered a case in X. Cr.No. 1917/92 under Section 379 , 467 , 468 , 419 , 420 r/w 471 and 34 I.P.C . Ex.B.16 is the letter of the second respondent company dated 29.10.1992 addressed to the first respondent informing inter alia that the company has terminated the services with immediate effect and without notice pay. In Ex.B.16 the facts and contents of affidavit, deed of indemnity and agreement regarding security dated 28.10.1992 made by the first respondent has been referred to. Pertinently, Ex.B.19 affidavit of first respondent/first defendant categorically avers in para 2 of his affidavit that he was extremely sorry for the misdeeds committed by him and he sincerely repent for the same and that he has requested the second respondent company not to dismiss him but only to terminate his services if his services are not required any longer and therefore, he voluntarily waive the notice period in regard to terminate of his services and requested the company to treat his case sympathetically etc. 21.It is the evidence of P.W.1/appellant/plaintiff that he is a share broker and that Sathyanarayana has informed through Ex.A.1 to transfer the 350 shares of second respondent company standing in his name and that the said Sathyanarayana has encashed the cheques given by him and that he has incurred a loss for which the second respondent/ second defendant company is responsible and that an employee working in the second respondent company has stolen the shares and sold them and that as against the first respondent/first defendant, a case is going on before the criminal Court and that action has been taken against him for selling the stolen shares by the stock authority and that it is not correct to state that for the law sustained by him the first respondent/first defendant alone is liable and that the second respondent company is not liable. 22.It is the candid evidence of D.W.1 (Manager of second respondent company) that the first respondent/first defendant has impersonated the shares in the name of Sathyanarayana and that Ex.B.16 is the termination order of the first respondent. Ex.B.22 is the xerox copy of the final report filed before the criminal Court against the first respondent/first defendant by the Inspector General of Police, Central Crime Branch, Egmore. In short, the charge in Ex.B.22 against the first respondent/first defendant is to the effect that he after stealing the share certificates to the value of Rs.4,01,500/- and forged the signature and the instruments received three cheques to an extent of Rs.2,10,000/-, Rs.60,000/-, Rs.1,31,500/- amounting in all to an extent of Rs.4,01,500/- by impersonating himself as Sathyanarayana and encashed the same by opening an account in the Bank of India, Thousand Lights Branch, Chennai. 23.One cannot loose sight of an important fact that for the master's liability to arise, the act must be a wrongful one authorised by the master or a wrongful one and unauthorised mode of doing some act authorised by the master. If the servant at the time of accident is not acting within the course of employment but is doing something for himself, certainly the master cannot be held liable in the eye of law, in the considered opinion of this Court. Moreover, if the unauthorised and wrongful act of an employee/servant is not so connected with the authorised act has to be a mode of doing it, but is an independent act, the master is not responsible; for in such a case the servant is not acting in the course of the employment but has gone outside of it as per the decision Canadiyan Pacific Railway Company V. Leonard Lock-hart, AIR 1943 P.C. at page 63. As a matter of fact, whether master's vicarious liability is in issue has to answer two questions: 24.No wonder, the first question assumes significance that the question of master's liability can arise only when the servant is liable. The second question must be answered by factual determination of the issue whether the employees wrongful act or act of omission or commission committed by him has been done in the course of his employment. 25.It is the settled principle of law that it is for the claimant to establish that he has suffered an injury as the foreseeable result of the employers breach of duty. Duty, Breach and Causation are the three essentials of liability and the existence of a duty remains subject to the tests of foreseeability, proximity, fairness, justice and reasonableness that apply in the realm of Law of Torts, in the considered opinion of this court. 26.As far as the present case is concerned, that the first respondent/first defendant employee was not serving in the secretarial division of the second respondent/second defendant company but was in the Speciality Coatings Division of the second respondent/second defendant and further that the first respondent/first defendant after being possessed of the documents sent by one Vipul N.Dhami of Bombay committed malevolent conduct and indulged in misdemeanour activity and after coming to know of the fraud committed by the first respondent/first defendant, the second respondent/second defendant had terminated his services for his involvement in connection with the fraudulent and forged share transfer. The second respondent/ second/defendant company had also lodged a FIR with the police and action was also taken by them when they came to know of the fraud committed by the first respondent/first defendant and one cannot ignore a vital fact that after lodging a police complaint the fraud matter was brought to the notice of SEBI and all Stock Exchangers authorities. 27.On a careful consideration of respective contentions and on an overall assessment of the facts and circumstances of the case in an integral fashion, this Court is of the considered view that the first respondent/first defendant employee had committed the fraud after being in possession of the documents, transfer deeds and share certificates sent by N.Dhami and even though the first respondent/first defendant was employed under second respondent/second defendant, the second respondent/second defendant company could not be saddled with the liability to pay the suit amount claimed by the appellant/plaintiff because of the fact that the acts of misdeeds, omissions and commissions pointing out to the misdemeanour or malevolent conducts of the first respondent/first defendant, all these were of individual, independent and personal unauthorised wrongful acts of the said employee and in that view of the matter, the liability could not be tagged on to the second respondent/second defendant company on the footing of tortious liability to extend the vicarious liability of an employer and therefore, the appeal has no merits and resultantly, the same fails. 28.In the result, the appeal is dismissed. The judgment and decree passed by the trial Court in O.S.No.9100 of 1995 are affirmed by this Court for the reasons assigned in this appeal. However, having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case, the parties are directed to bear their own costs in this appeal. sgl	 		

To 1.The II Assistant Judge, 
 City Civil Court, Madras. 2.The Record Keeper, VR Section, 
 High Court, 
 Madras 104