1. By filing these two applications bearing Bail Appln. Nos. 1154/2014 Bail Appln. Nos. 1154/2014 & 1302/2014 Page 1 of 16 and 1302/2014, the Petitioners Ashok Kumar and Versha Ritu respectively
are seeking anticipatory bail in case FIR No.305/2014 under Sections
342 / 354 / 363 / 365 / 376 / 384 / 509 / 34 IPC, PS Vivek Vihar. 2. I have heard learned counsel for the Petitioners as well as learned
counsel for the Complainant and learned APP for the State. 3. The written complaint given by Km. 'D' (name withheld to conceal
her identity) on 02.05.2014 has formed basis of registration of FIR
No.305/2014 under Sections 342 / 354 / 363 / 365 / 376 / 384 / 509 / 34 IPC at PS
Vivek Vihar. 4. The contents of above FIR reveal that on 02.05.2014, the
Complainant 'D' alongwith her sister 'M' (name withheld to conceal her
identity) came to the police station Vivek Vihar and handed over their
complaint to WSI Beena. In the complaint which is addressed to the SHO,
PS Vivek Vihar, it is mentioned that she is residing alongwith her family at
Jwala Nagar, Shahdara and had studied upto 11th standard in Vivekanand
Public School, Anand Vihar till the year 2012. Her sister 'M' aged about 24
years had opened a shop in the year 2011 under the name and style 'Outlook
Collections' in Satnam Market, Rohtash Nagar, Shahdara. After returning
from the school, the Complainant 'D' also used to be at the shop. Versha
Ritu (Petitioner in Bail Appln. No.1302/2014) used to visit their shop and
was well known to them. In the year 2012, when Petitioner Versha Ritu
inquired from her sister as to when they were going to have new collection,
her sister 'M' informed that she was not having enough money. At that
time, Petitioner Versha offered to lend money on interest but her sister 'M'
declined the offer. The Petitioner Versha again insisted and convinced her
saying that it was family matter and offered to give Rs.1 lac on interest @ Bail Appln. Nos. 1154/2014 & 1302/2014 Page 2 of 16 5% for which her sister 'M' agreed. When Petitioner Versha asked for the
account number, her sister 'M' informed that she was not holding any
account. Thereafter Petitioner Versha asked her sister 'M' to give cheque
from the account of any of her family member. Next day, 'M' gave two
blank cheques of the account of their father and at that time, Petitioner
Versha handed over Rs.70,000/- to them. When 'M' complained that they
were to receive Rs.1 lac, Petitioner Versha agreed to give balance amount of
Rs.30,000/- in a day or two. "M' telephoned Petitioner Versha for payment
of the balance amount and again, she requested for 2-3 days time.
Thereafter, Petitioner Versha stopped attending their phone calls. After
about 9-10 days, Petitioner Versha called 'M' and informed her that she
(Petitioner Versha) was unwell and asked 'M' to visit her house. 'M'
alongwith 'D' reached house of Petitioner Versha at Naveen Shahdara. At
that time, Petitioner Versha informed that she had given Rs.70,000/- on
interest of Rs.3000/- per day. They protested saying that loan was on the
interest of 5% only and they were unable to pay the interest of Rs.3000/- per
day. Thereafter both the sisters returned home. 5. During March, 2012, her sister 'M' continued paying Rs.3000/- per
day to Petitioner Versha but in the month of April, 2012, her sister 'M'
telephonically informed Petitioner Versha that they were unable to pay
Rs.3000/- per day. Thereafter, Petitioner Versha asked her sister 'M' to
meet her (Petitioner Versha) alongwith her sister 'D' and she would get the
interest waived. When her sister 'M' met Petitioner Versha, she was asked
as to where her sister 'D' was. On being informed that 'D' was in her
school, Petitioner Versha alongwith 'M' came to Vivekanand Public School,
Anand Vihar and from there, Petitioner Versha forcibly took both the sisters Bail Appln. Nos. 1154/2014 & 1302/2014 Page 3 of 16 to Jafrabad. There Petitioner Versha told them that she would introduce
them to an 'Uncle' and they should request him for waiver of interest.
Petitioner Versha took them to one office where one person was sitting and
was introduced to them as Ashokji the person from whom she had taken the
money for giving to them. That person Ashok i.e. Ashok Kumar (Petitioner
in Bail Appln. No.1154/2014) informed that the amount due from the
Complainant 'D' and her sister 'M' had become Rs.3,10,000/- and
asked them as to when they would return that amount. Both the sisters
told him that he was a stranger to them. On hearing this, Petitioner Ashok
Kumar started abusing them and at that time, leaving them in the office, the
Petitioner Versha went out. The Petitioner Ashok Kumar thereafter started
misbehaving with both the sisters and pulled their clothes. They protested
by saying 'uncle aap yeh kya kar rahe ho'. He reacted by saying that till his
money is not returned, this would continue and asked her sister 'M' to either
bring the money or bring the papers of her shop and house. While the
Complainant 'D' was forced to stay in the office by the Petitioner Ashok
Kumar, her sister 'M' left the office to bring the papers. The Complainant
'D' continued sitting and weeping in the shop. After some time, her sister
came alongwith the papers of the property as well two blank cheques
and handed over the same to Petitioner Ashok Kumar. At that time,
Petitioner Ashok Kumar forcibly got the cheques signed from 'M' and
thereafter both of them returned home. After some time, Petitioner
Ashok Kumar telephonically called her sister threatening her to return the
amount. Her sister 'M' then telephoned Petitioner Versha and apprised her.
She assured to talk to the Petitioner Ashok Kumar. After a few days,
Petitioner Versha telephoned 'M' informing that she (Versha) was going to Bail Appln. Nos. 1154/2014 & 1302/2014 Page 4 of 16 her mother's house in Ballabhgarh and requested her ('M') to accompany as
her (Versha's) mother would help her ('M'). Thereafter Petitioner Versha
alongwith her sister 'M' came to her ('D') school and took them to
Ballabhgarh. There in a house Petitioner Ashok Kumar was already present
and deceitfully the Petitioner Versha sent the Complainant 'D' upstairs and
clicked her photo and did galat kaam with her. For two years, due to fear of
the family and shame, they did not disclose this incident to anybody but
when their father started receiving notice from the Court and he remained
disturbed as to how his cheque and property papers have reached them, they
disclosed the entire incident to their father who advised them to report the
matter to the police. Submissions made on behalf of Petitioner Ashok Kumar in Bail Appln. 6. Ms.Reena Jain Malhotra, Advocate for the Petitioner Ashok Kumar
has sought anticipatory bail on the following grounds : She had visited her school on 7th/29th in the month of August and remained
absent in the whole month of September, 2012. 7. Learned counsel for the Petitioner Ashok Kumar submitted that in the
light of documentary evidence which are prior to the registration of FIR in
this case, the Petitioner Ashok Kumar may be released on anticipatory bail
and he is ready to join and cooperate in the investigation of the case. Submissions made on behalf of Petitioner Versha Ritu in Bail Appln. 8. Mr. Sudhir Nagar, Advocate for Petitioner Versha Ritu prayed for
grant of anticipatory bail on the following grounds : 9. On behalf of State, prayer for release of the Petitioners Versha Ritu
and Ashok Kumar on anticipatory bail has been strongly opposed on the
ground that the Petitioners are involved in a heinous crime i.e. for
committing the offences punishable under Sections
342 / 354 / 363 / 365 / 376 / 384 / 509 / 34 IPC. The Petitioner Ashok Kumar has
sexually assaulted the Complainant 'D' and Petitioner Versha Ritu had
abetted the crime and she was instrumental in taking the two sisters initially
to the office of Petitioner Ashok Kumar at Jafrabad and thereafter to a house
in Ballabhgarh where the Complainant 'D' was photographed and galat
kaam was done with her. It has been further submitted by learned APP for
the State that in view of the nature and gravity of the offence, delay of two
years in reporting the matter should not be considered as a ground by this
Court to extend the benefit of anticipatory bail to the Petitioners as delay has
been duly explained in the FIR by the Complainant. It has also been
submitted by learned APP for the State that the investigation is in progress
and release of Petitioners on anticipatory bail is likely to hamper the
investigation. 10. While assisting the learned APP for the State, Mr.R.P.Luthra, learned Bail Appln. Nos. 1154/2014 & 1302/2014 Page 8 of 16 counsel for the Complainant has submitted that the two sisters have suffered
at the hands of the Petitioners and they have been exploited for the reason
that they were in need of money which was borrowed from the Petitioner
Versha Ritu on a high rate of interest. The Complainant's sister 'M' paid
the interest @ Rs.3000/- per day for a month and despite that they were
compelled to handover the property papers and the blank cheques which
were not signed by the account holder i.e. father of the Complainant 'D'.
Learned counsel for the Complainant has drawn the attention of this Court to
the complaint dated 29.11.2012 by the father of the Complainant 'D'
addressed to SHO, PS Vivek Vihar and received in the Police Station
30.11.2012 (copy of which is placed on record) whereby he informed the
SHO, PS Vivek Vihar about the cheque of Rs.7 lacs being deposited by
Petitioner Versha Ritu. Father of the Complainant 'D' also informed the
bank that no such cheque has been issued or signed by him. He also
informed that when Petitioner Versha was contacted on phone, she
threatened them claiming that she had deposited the cheque and she was
having his cheque as well property papers. She also called his children to
meet her alone. Not only that when his son, who is not even able to speak
properly, was alone at home, the Petitioner Versha came and took away
the cheques and the papers. He also informed that his children have been
threatened and if something goes wrong, he (SHO, PS Vivek Vihar) would
be responsible. 11. I have considered the rival contentions and carefully gone through the
record. In this case, FIR has been lodged by the Complainant 'D' after two
years of alleged incident. During the course of hearing, learned counsel
for the Complainant as well learned APP for the State were requested Bail Appln. Nos. 1154/2014 & 1302/2014 Page 9 of 16 to explain how a person who has taken a loan of Rs.70,000/- in dire need
of funds, could pay Rs.3000/- per day as interest for a month with
principal amount of loan of Rs.70,000/- still outstanding with interest
liability. 12. Learned counsel for the Complainant as well learned APP for the
State submitted that this is the version of the Complainant 'D' that the
Petitioner Versha Ritu agreed to give a loan of Rs.1 lac with interest at the
rate of 5% but she gave only Rs.70,000/- and subsequently she claimed
interest @ Rs.3000/- per day. The Complainant 'D' and her sister 'M' paid
Rs.3000/- per day for a month and thereafter expressed their inability to pay
the interest at that rate. Learned APP for the State and learned counsel for
the Complainant submitted that at that point of time Petitioner Versha Ritu
took them to the office of Petitioner Ashok Kumar to request for waiver of
interest but they were informed that the total amount outstanding against
them was Rs.3,10,000/- including the interest. At that point, Petitioner
Ashok Kumar not only misbehaved with the two sisters by pulling their
clothes but also asked 'M' i.e. the sister of the Complainant 'D' to bring
property papers and till then Complainant 'D' was made to sit in his office
by Petitioner Ashok Kumar. Both the sister were allowed to leave when 'M'
returned with property papers and two blank cheques and handed over the
same to Petitioner Ashok Kumar and he (Ashok Kumar) obtained the
signature of 'M' on the cheque. 13. Despite repeatedly questioning the Complainant's counsel as well as
learned APP for the State, they could not answer as to how on a loan of
Rs.70,000/-, the sister of the Complainant was paying Rs.3000/- per day as
interest for a month which comes to Rs.90,000/- in a month which is much Bail Appln. Nos. 1154/2014 & 1302/2014 Page 10 of 16 more than the loan amount of Rs.70,000/-. It is highly improbable that after
receiving Rs.70,000/-, that too at the rate of interest of 5%, the interest of
Rs.3000/- per day would be paid for a month and thereafter to be under the
liability of Rs.3,10,000/- on an amount of Rs.70,000/-. Even if this
improbability is ignored, the status report reveals that during the period the
Complainant was allegedly taken from her school by her sister and
Petitioner Versha Ritu to Ballabhgarh, the Complainant was not attending
the school. 14. Thus, in this case, there is material to show that much prior to the
registration of this case, there were different civil transactions by the father
and sister of the Complainant with these Petitioners. It is also emerging on
record that both the Petitioners were not strangers to the Complainant and
her family. Different version has come on record as to the manner in which
the two cheques and the property papers reached the hands of Petitioners
from the Complainant and her family. 15. The scope and ambit of anticipatory bail has been discussed by the
Supreme Court in the case of Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre vs. State of
Maharashtra & Ors. AIR 2011 SC 312 and following observations have
been made: 120. The Law Commission in July 2002 has severely criticized the
police of our country for the arbitrary use of power of arrest which,
the Commission said, is the result of the vast discretionary powers
conferred upon them by this Code. The Commission expressed
concern that there is no internal mechanism within the police
department to prevent misuse of law in this manner and the stark
reality that complaint lodged in this regard does not bring any result.
The Commission intends to suggest amendments in the Criminal
Procedure Code and has invited suggestions from various quarters.
Reference is made in this Article to the 41st Report of the Law
Commission wherein the Commission saw 'no justification' to require
a person to submit to custody, remain in prison for some days and
then apply for bail even when there are reasonable grounds for
holding that the person accused of an offence is not likely to abscond
or otherwise misuse his liberty. Discretionary power to order
anticipatory bail is required to be exercised keeping in mind these
sentiments and spirit of the judgments of this Court in Sibbia's case Bail Appln. Nos. 1154/2014 & 1302/2014 Page 12 of 16 (supra) and Joginder Kumar v. State of U.P. and Ors. MANU/SC/0311/1994 : (1994) 4 SCC 260. Relevant consideration for exercise of the power 121. No inflexible guidelines or straitjacket formula can be provided
for grant or refusal of anticipatory bail. We are clearly of the view
that no attempt should be made to provide rigid and inflexible
guidelines in this respect because all circumstances and situations of
future cannot be clearly visualized for the grant or refusal of
anticipatory bail. In consonance with the legislative intention the
grant or refusal of anticipatory bail should necessarily depend on
facts and circumstances of each case. As aptly observed in the
Constitution Bench decision in Sibbia's case (supra) that the High
Court or the Court of Sessions to exercise their jurisdiction under Section 438 Code of Criminal Procedure by a wise and careful use of
their discretion which by their long training and experience they are
ideally suited to do. In any event, this is the legislative mandate which
we are bound to respect and honour. 122. The following factors and parameters can be taken into
consideration while dealing with the anticipatory bail: viii. While considering the prayer for grant of anticipatory bail,
 a balance has to be struck between two factors namely, no
 prejudice should be caused to the free, fair and full
 investigation and there should be prevention of harassment,
 humiliation and unjustified detention of the accused;
 ix. The court to consider reasonable apprehension of tampering
 of the witness or apprehension of threat to the complainant;
 x. Frivolity in prosecution should always be considered and it is
 only the element of genuineness that shall have to be
 considered in the matter of grant of bail and in the event of
 there being some doubt as to the genuineness of the
 prosecution, in the normal course of events, the accused is
 entitled to an order of bail. 123. The arrest should be the last option and it should be restricted to
 those exceptional cases where arresting the accused is imperative in
 the facts and circumstances of that case. 124. The court must carefully examine the entire available record
 and particularly the allegations which have been directly attributed
 to the accused and these allegations are corroborated by other
 material and circumstances on record.' 16. The present FIR has been registered on the basis of pre-written
complaint submitted to WSI Beena. In the words of the Complainant, the
allegations from which the offence of rape by the Petitioner Ashok Kumar
or its abetment by Petitioner Versha Ritu can be inferred, are as under : 17. The nature of the offences committed by each of the Petitioner is still
under investigation. Both the Petitioners have joined investigation and no
recovery is to be effected from any of the petitioners. However, there is
enough material on record on the basis of which there appears to be some
force in the contentions made on behalf of the Petitioners that the
Complainant by getting this FIR registered, tried to create an escape route
for her family entangled in litigations with these petitioners. I refrain from
making any observation on the various contentions raised at bar by the
parties, lest it may not prejudice their case. 18. After considering the entire material available on record, I find it to be
a fit case to enlarge the Petitioners on anticipatory bail on the following
conditions : 19. Both the bail applications stand disposed of. 20. Any observations made hereinabove for the purpose of dealing with
the contentions of counsel for the parties shall not be deemed to be an
expression on merits of the case. 21. As prayed, copy of the order be given dasti to learned counsel for the
parties. PRATIBHA RANI, J
AUGUST 06, 2014
'st' Bail Appln. Nos. 1154/2014 & 1302/2014 Page 16 of 16