[made by M.SUNDAR, J.]

 This order will now dispose of the captioned 'Writ Petition' ['WP' for

 the sake of brevity]. 2. Mr. V. Rajasekar, learned counsel on record for writ petitioner,

 is before us. 3. Adverting to representations dated 26.07.2024 and 09.09.2024

 from the writ petitioner, learned counsel for writ petitioner submitted that

 there is alleged encroachment on waterways and watercourses in

 S.No.222A1, S.No. 221 which is declared “Tharisu Land” and S.No. 277

 which is “Rudra Boomi” (burial site) as per Revenue records in Vandalur

 Village, Vandalur Taluk, Chengalpattu District [hereinafter 'said lands' for

 the sake of convenience and clarity] by respondents 5 and 6 before us. To be

 noted, respondents 5 and 6 are private respondents. Page Nos.3/8 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis W.P.No.10 of 2025 4. Considering the obtaining position, we are of the view that the

 captioned WP can be disposed of by ordering notice to official respondents

 (respondents 1 to 4) and putting in a safety valve / adequate protection qua

 alleged encroachers i.e., respondents 5 and 6. 5. Issue notice to official respondents, i.e., respondents 1 to 4. 6. Mr. T.K. Saravanan, learned Government Advocate, accepts

 notice for respondents 1 to 4. 7. In the light of what has been alluded to supra and considering the

 limited scope of the captioned WP, with the consent of both sides, main WP

 was taken up. 8. It was submitted by learned Government Advocate that

 G.O.(Ms)No.64, Revenue and Disaster Management Department, Land

 Disposal Wing, dated 08.02.2022 has been put in place, wherein and

 whereby Divisional Monitoring Committee, District Monitoring Committee Page Nos.4/8 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis W.P.No.10 of 2025 and State Steering Committee have been constituted inter alia for a single

 point reporting / monitoring system qua Government lands. 9. In the light of the narrative thus far, we deem it appropriate to

 refer the matter to the Divisional Monitoring Committee headed by the third

 respondent in the light of G.O.(Ms)No.64, Revenue and Disaster

 Management Department, Land Disposal Wing, dated 08.02.2022. 10. This Court directs the jurisdictional Divisional Monitoring

 Committee to examine if there is encroachment qua said lands. The

 Divisional Monitoring Committee shall also ensure that adequate and ample

 opportunity is given to persons concerned, more particularly alleged

 encroachers (respondents 5 and 6) before taking a call. In this regard, we are

 acutely conscious that the matter is being disposed of in Admission Board

 without notice to alleged encroachers and therefore, this safety valve is put

 in place. To be noted, all the rights and contentions of alleged encroachers

 are preserved for being raised before the Committee concerned which shall

 consider the same on their own merits and in accordance with law

 untrammelled by this proceedings in this Court. Page Nos.5/8 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis W.P.No.10 of 2025 11. The Divisional Monitoring Committee qua G.O.(Ms)No.64,

 Revenue and Disaster Management Department, Land Disposal Wing, dated

 08.02.2022, shall (if it comes to the conclusion that there is encroachment)

 report the encroachment for further action (for removal of encroachment

 which again shall be after giving adequate and ample opportunity to alleged

 encroachers). 12. It is open to the writ petitioner and or anyone concerned with

 this matter to come to this Court on the same issue even with a similar /

 same prayer if there is any change of circumstances. 13. We make it clear that we have not expressed any view or

 opinion as to whether there is encroachment or not qua said lands as it turns

 on facts and it is for the Divisional Monitoring Committee to take a call on

 this aspect of the matter. We also make it clear that this exercise will not

 apply to patta land and it will apply only to public land, if there is any

 encroachment in public land. Page Nos.6/8 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis W.P.No.10 of 2025 14. Captioned WP is disposed of with the aforementioned

 observations and directives in the aforesaid manner. There shall be no order

 as to costs.