1. This is a suit for the recovery of Rs.7,18,197/- together with

 pendentelite and future interest @19.5% per annum with quarterly

 rests till realization, recoverable immediately and also for ancillary

 reliefs alongwith the costs of the suit, filed by the plaintiff against the

 aforesaid defendants. 2. The brief facts of the suit as per plaint are that the plaintiff, a body

 corporate with perpetual succession, a nationalized bank constituted

 under the Banking Companies (Acquisition & Transfer of

 Undertakings Act 40 of 1980, filed the present suit through Sh. P.S.

 Kohli (Regional Manager) and Sh. A.P.S. Mann (Manager) of the

 plaintiff bank against the defendants. The aforesaid mentioned

 officials, who hold powers of attorney (s) and are fully authorized and

 empowered to sign and very the pleadings, institute the suit and file
 documents, as may be just and in the interest of the bank in

connection with the suit and to do all other co-related acts on behalf of

the bank as they may deem fit and proper. The defendant no.1 is a partnership firm, of which the defendant

no.2 to 7 are partners. The defendant no.1, through its partner,

introduced itself as a partnership firm engaged in the business of

construction. The said defendants opened a Current Account in

March, 1984 and requested the bank to grant them financial facility,

including current overdraft facility on adhoc basis, being casual

availments. They undertook to repay the amount in a short time and,

in any even, on demand, with interest and other charges. The current

overdraft facility was availed of by the defendants during the course of

the operation of the said account, either by way of overdraft or by

requesting the bank to purchase cheques, etc. presented by them. The

defendants no.2, 3 and 4 were and/or are partners of M/s Wee Aar

Constructive Builders and they had also opened a current account

with the plaintiff bank and were availing overdraft facility besides

other credit facilities from the plaintiff bank. They requested the

plaintiff to allow them cash-credit and term loan facility to the extent

of Rs.2 Lakhs and Rs. 1 Lakh respectively. Subsequently, they

instructed that the case credit and the term loan facility which was
 sanctioned to them be allowed in the name of defendant no.1 of which

defendants no. 2 to 7 are partners for the purpose of administrative

convenience. As security for the re-payment of the amount due in the

loan accounts, defendants agreed to hypothecate the entire stock in

trade of bricks, sand, stone, steel bars, windows, etc., besides the

hypothecation of entire plant and machinery, namely, concrete mixers,

vibrators, high-speed pumps, weight patching plant, welding sets, etc.

Mortgage of immovable property commonly known as WZ 51,

Krishnapuri Colony, Delhi, belonging to defendant no.4 was also

offered. This was acceded to. The current overdraft account was

operated upon and overdraft facility availed off and as on 29.06.1985

the current account showed a debit balance of Rs.92,036.99ps. and the

same was acknowledged in writing. In consideration of the said subsisting advance and/or debt due

and in continuation of their liability thereunder, defendant no.1,

through its partners, executed and delivered on 29.06.1985, the

following loan documents:- The defendants undertook to pay the amount due in the current

overdraft account in a short time or, in any even, on demand, but they

did not keep up their commitment. A sum of Rs.1,36,160.39ps. is due

from the defendants as on 03.07.1988 with interest. A sum of Rs. One Lakh was disbursed to the debit of the term

loan account and by crediting the same to the cash credit account

opened in the name of defendant no.1 on. This was confirmed. In
 consideration of the above, as agreed, defendant no.2 to 7 as partners

of defendant no.1 and for and on its behalf executed the following loan

documents:- The defendants had undertaken to repay the said amount in

monthly installments of Rs.2,500/- without prejudice to the right of the

bank to claim and recover the said amount on demand and in lump

sum. The defendant, however, did not keep up their repayment

schedule and a sum of Rs.1,52,153.61ps. is due from the defendants in

the Term Loan Account inclusive of interest upto 3rd July, 1988. At the request of defendants no.2 to 7, partners of defendant no.1,

the cash credit hypothecation limit to the extent of Rs.2,00,000/- was
 also granted in June, 1985. The defendants started availing the cash

credit facility and operation of this account began in June, 1985. In

consideration of the grant of this facility, defendants no.2 to 7,

partners of defendant no.1 and for and on its behalf, executed and

delivered the following loan documents:- The cash credit account was operated upon and facility by way of
 cash credit was availed of. The defendant had undertaken to adjust

this account on demand but they did not liquidate their admitted

liability in this account also and a sum of Rs.4,29,883/- is due from the

defendants in this account as on 31.07.1988. The following are the particular of hypthecation:- The cause of action of filing this suit accrued in favour of the

plaintiff and against the defendants on the dates when the said loan

facilities were granted by the plaintiff and availed of by the
 defendants. It further arose when the defendants executed and

 delivered various loan documents to the plaintiff including the

 Demand Promissory Note, Deed of Hypothecation and mortgage

 confirmation, etc. It further arose when debit balance was confirmed,

 and part payments made. The cause of action also accrued from time

 to time when the plaintiff through its officers, agents and counsel has

 been drawing the attention of the defendants to their failure to pay the

 amount due. Cause of action is still continuing. The suit has been

 properly valued for the purposes of court fee and jurisdiction. The

 defendants resides and carry on business at Delhi and the amounts

 were advanced at Delhi where the same same were repayable. The

 hypothecation of mortgage was also effected at Delhi. The immovable

 property which is the subject matter of mortgage is situated withing

 the territorial jurisdiction of the court, therefore, this court has

 jurisdiction to try and entertain the present suit. 3. The defendants contested the suit by filing the joint Written

 Statement, wherein they have also raised their counter claim. Certain preliminary objections were raised by the defendant in

 their Written Statement like that the plaintiff has charged

 exhorbitant rate of interest and also penal interest. The transaction

 between the plaintiff and defendants is an ordinary commercial
 transaction. At the time, the transaction in question is alleged to have

been entered into, the defendants were in dire necessity of certain

amounts to finance their projects and due to which the defendants had

to submit to whatever terms were offered to them by the plaintiff bank

and the defendants signed whatever documents were required to be

signed by the bank and most of them being blank documents. In fact,

the defendants under fraudulent representation of being advanced a

term loan in the sum of Rs.1 lakh and a Cash/Credit loan in the sum of

Rs.2 Lakhs were defrauded and the plaintiff bank, in fact, foisted the

defendants with an alleged liability of another partnership which had

become barred by limitation. The plaintiff's suit claiming a sum of

Rs.7,18,197/- plus interest is unconscionable. Plaintiff bank obtained

the blank documents signed and fabricated the same later on to suit

its convenience for filing the present suit. The account, which is filed

as a basis of the suit, is absolutely unreliable, incorrect and not in

accordance with the norms of banking or accounting, and is illegal.

The balances, which are now claimed by the plaintiff bank, as such,

are wrong and the interest charged is unfair, unreasonable, penal,

usurious and not at all recoverable as per banking law and practice.

The defendant deposited a sum of Rs.5,75,694.48ps. and against that

the defendant withdrew the sum of Rs.5,10,343.11ps. and the balance
 of Rs.65,351.37ps. the plaintiff bank is withholding on which the

plaintiff bank is liable to pay interest @ 18% per annum as per market

custom, which come to Rs.43,642.96ps. and a counter claim for the

recovery of the said amount has been filed by the defendant in the

present suit. On merits it is claimed that the suit has not been instituted,

signed and verified by the duly authorized person. It is also claimed

that defendant no.1 is a partnership firm and defendants no.2 to 7 are

its partners except that Sh. Mohan Lal, defendant no.4, who is a

partner of defendant no.1 in its capacity as Karta of M.L. Verma,

HUF. Opening of a current A/c no.1102 by the defendants with the

plaintiff bank in March, 1984 is not denied but its operation was

stopped on 11th June, 1984. It is denied that defendants no.1 to 7 ever

requested the plaintiff bank to grant the defendants any financial

facilities including Current Overdraft facility on adhoc basis being

casual availments, but the plaintiff bank was honouring the cheques

of defendant no.1 in excess of the credit balance on the security of

Fixed Deposit Receipts which had been got discharged in blank. It is

further denied that defendants ever undertook to repay the amount in

a short time and on demand with interest and other charges, as

alleged. The plaintiff bank has made certain unauthorized transfer
 entries on 03.08.1985 and 30.09.1985 to bring the claim within

limitation, whereas the operation of this A/c was stopped on

11.06.1984. It is denied that defendant no.2 & 4 were and are

partners of M/s Wee Aar Constructive Builders, the constitution of the

partnership was as under:- The partnership had dealings with the plaintiff bank in the year

1983, i.e. it was having a Current A/c no. CA 917 with the plaintiff

bank. The said partnership (i.e. M/s Wee Aar Constructive Builders)

requested for certain facilities which were not granted, as such, M/s

Wee Aar Constructive Builders opened their A/c., with the State Bank

of India, Malviya Nagar, New Delhi, and were/are enjoying credit

facilities on the collateral security of property no. WZ-51, Krishna

Puri, New Delhi-110018, from April, 1985 onwards, and the

documents of title qua that property are lying deposited with the State

Bank of India, Malviya Nagar, New Delhi. Although it is admitted

that M/s Wee Aar Constructive Builders are requested for the cash

credit and term loan facilities for Rs. Two Lakhs and Rs. one Lakh

respectively but the same were not granted and no title deed with
 respect to property no. WZ-51, Krishnapuri, New Delhi were deposited

as a collateral security for the grant of said loan. No facilities of cash

credit and term loan was sanctioned in favour of the defendants. It is

claimed that the somewhere in July, 1985, the manager of plaintiff

bank approached defendant no.1 and got signed from all the partners

the blank forms and papers. Since those documents were filled up by

the bank, so they are not entitled to charge interest at such usurious

rate. It is also claimed that the material particulars like current

account no.1102, the sum of Rs. One Lakh and Rs. Two Lakh and also

the rate of interest were filled up later on, so there was never any

agreement between the parties to pay interest at such extraordinary

high rate. It was also claimed that in fact Sh. R.L. Verma defendant

no.1 protested against the singing of printed forms and documents in

blanks and appended his signature under protest. It was also denied

that the aforesaid current showed a debit balance of Rs.92,036.99ps.

and the said balance was confirmed by the defendants. The said

figure was arrived by the bank by calculating and adding interest at

usurious rates. Several blank papers were got singed in July, 1985

and which have been filled in and dated as 29.06.1985. Answering

defendants did sign bunch of documents in blank in 1984. Defendant

no.2 to 4 and their close relatives had FDRs to the tune of
 Rs.4,56,000/- with the plaintiff bank which on maturity would come to

Rs.6-7 Lakhs. The bank was allowing the overdraft on the security of

these FDRs. The claim of Rs.1,36,160.39ps. as on 03.07.1988 was

denied. The statement of account no.1102 is also denied. It is also

claimed that the claim of Rs.1,36,160.39ps. is otherwise also barred by

limitation. The bank disparately and unauthorizedly has given credit

of Rs.5,000/- each by transfer entries made on 03.08.1985 and

30.10.1985 just in order to bring the alleged claim of the plaintiff

within time. The defendants never applied for grant of Term Loan to

the extent of Rs. One Lakh and the same was neither disbursed to the

defendants in any manner nor availed of by the defendants or the

partners of M/s Wee Aar Constructive Builders. The said firm applied

for Term Loan in the year 1983, but no loaning facilities were granted

to the said firm. In any case, the said firm is not impleaded as a party

because the alleged claim against the said firm is barred by limitation.

The property in question commonly known as WZ-51, Krishnapuri

Delhi was never mortgaged in any manner in favour of the plaintiff

bank by defendant no.4. When the plaintiff bank declined the loan

facility, then the defendants availed the facility from the SBI Malviya

Nagar by depositing the title deeds of the said property. The whole

case set up by the plaintiff bank is absurd and exposes fraud played
 upon the defendants. In fact, no concluded agreement came into

existence with the plaintiff and as such nothing is payable in the term

loan account. The defendants did not agree to pay the excessive rate

of interest. The document in the connection with the hypothecation of

the plant and machinery is wrong and without consideration. The

agreement dated 29.06.1985 is without consideration and is a

fabricated document. It is denied that the defendants had undertaken

to repay any amount in monthly installments of Rs.2,500/- each. The

defendants were never given any cash credit facility but the

defendants were depositing the amounts and withdrawing the same in

that account. It is claimed that a different firm in the year 1983

negotiated with the plaintiff bank for grant of term loan facilities

against the aforesaid property of defendant no.4 but as the plaintiff

did not grant any term loan facility, so M/s Wee Aar Constructive

Builders then lodged the title deeds of the said property with SBI in

the year 1984 and availed the loan facility. It is also claimed that the

plaintiff bank has played a fraud on the defendants in order to set

right their books and in that connection got certain papers and forms

signed in blanks from the defendants. No mortgage deed of whatsoever

kind or nature came into existence between the parties. It is denied

that any cause of action ever accrued in favour of plaintiff as alleged. It is also claimed that the plaintiff is liable to pay separate court fee

 for three different loaning facilities i.e. cash credit, term loan and

 current overdraft allegedly granted to the defendants. As regards to counter claim, the cause of action for purpose of

 counter claim of Rs.1,18,994.33ps. arose when the plaintiff withheld

 and wrongly appropriated the account and finally it arose on

 29.05.1987 when it gave a notice of demand dated 29.05.1987 and the

 plaintiff refused to give the credit of the said amount to defendant

 no.1. The requisite court fee for the purpose of counter claim has also

 been paid and the counter claim is liable to be decreed in favour of the

 defendants. 4. Replication to the Written Statement of defendants cum Written

 Statement to counter claim filed by the plaintiff in which the claim

 and allegations raised in the Written Statement and counter claim

 strongly denied and the contents and the averments of the plaint

 reiterated and reaffirmed. It is specifically stated that the counter

 claim as raised by the defendants is totally misconceived, baseless,

 frivolous and untenable. 5. Replication to the counter claim was filed by the defendants in which

 they have denied the allegations raised in the Written Statement to

 the counter claim and reiterated and reaffirmed the contents of their
 counter claim. 6. After completion of pleadings, the defendants started remaining

 absent and ultimately they were proceeded against exparte in the suit.

 The counter claim of the defendants was also dismissed on account of

 non prosecution vide order dated 29.05.2007, whereas the plaintiff was

 directed to lead its exparte evidence in respect of its suit. 7. In support of the case of the plaintiff Sh. A.P.S. Mann, Chief Manager,

 Punjab & Sind Bank, G.T. Road, Phagwara, Punjab appeared in the

 witness box as PW-1 and tendered his evidence by way of affidavit.

 Thereafter, the plaintiff's evidence was closed. In his evidence

 tendered by way of affidavit, PW-1 Sh. A.P.S. Mann has supported the

 case of the plaintiff while reiterating the contents of plaint and also

 exhibited the following documents:- Ex.PW1/10 : Demand Promissory Note dated 29.06.1985 for Rs. Two Lakhs. Ex.PW1/11 : Letter of Waiver in Form no.106 dated 29.06.1985.
 Ex.PW1/12 : Undertaking in Form no.216 dated 29.06.1985.
 Ex.PW1/13 : Agreement in Form no.291 dated 29.06.1985.
 Ex.PW1/14 : Deed of Hypothecation in Form no. 192 dated
 29.06.1985. 8. The evidence of plaintiff i.e. the testimony of PW-1 stood unrebutted

 and uncontroverted on record as the defendants neither appeared to

 cross examine the said witness nor produced any evidence in their

 defence. They have also not led any evidence in support of their

 counter claim. I do not find any reason to disbelieve the testimony of PW-1

 which remained unrebutted and uncontroverted. 9. I have carefully heard the submissions of the counsel for the plaintiff. I have also thoroughly perused the entire material placed in the file

 particularly the pleadings, evidence and documents produced/led in

 this case and in my considered opinion the plaintiff is entitled to the

 recovery of amount claimed in the plaint and accordingly, suit of the

 plaintiff is decreed in favour of the plaintiff and against the

 defendants for a sum of Rs.7,18,197/- (Rs. Seven Lakh Eighteen

 Thousand One Hundred Ninety Seven only) alongwith interest @10 %

 per annum from the date of filing of suit till the realization of the

 decreetal amount. Plaintiff is also entitled to the cost. 10. Decree Sheet be prepared accordingly. 11. File be consigned to Record Room after completion of necessary

 formalities.