The present appeal has been filed by the assesse e against
the order of the ld. CIT(A)-30, New Delhi, date d 12.10.2017. 2. Following grounds have been raised by the assessee: 2. a)That on the facts and circumstances of the case and in
 law, Ld. CIT has erred in sustaining the addition to the extent
 of Rs. 47,07,953/- u/s 14A r.w.r. 8D(2)(iii) of IT Rules 1962. U.K. Paints India Ltd. b) The Ld. CIT has erred in holding that the Ld. AO had
recorded satisfaction before embarking upon the working
under rule 8D. Ld. AO has given a long commentary of
section 14A, rule 8D and other matters, but has not recorded
her satisfaction in respect of the correctness of the suo-moto
disallowance of Rs. 14,00,000/- with reference to the
accounts of the Appellant. Since no proper satisfaction is
recorded, addition of Rs. 47,07,953/- be deleted. c) That the Ld. CIT has erred while calculating disallowance
under /rule 8D(2)(iii) of IT Rules. Securities generating or
which shall generate taxable income are to be excluded under
rule 8D (2)(iii). d) That non dividend paving securities are to be excluded for
the working under rule 8D (2)(iii). e) That the suo-moto disallowance of Rs. 14,00,000/- is
withdrawn. It is prayed that the total addition of Rs.
47,07,953/- be deleted. 3. a) That on the facts and circumstances of the case and in
law the Ld. CIT has misdirected himself in confirming addition
of Rs. 47,58,833/- towards irrecoverable amount from NSEL. b) That the loss suffered ,is an allowable loss u/s 28 read with section 36(2) of the IT Act, as the loss is suffered during the
course of the appellant business, including money lending,
carried on in the ordinary course of business. c) Loss suffered is an allowable loss u/s 37 of the IT Act: U.K. Paints India Ltd. e) That Ld. CIT has erred in holding that no capital asset
 came into existence and the capital invested was lost before
 its existence. Investment with NSEL is a capital asset, by
 virtue of scam, the said investment became bad. Loss of the
 said money earning capital asset, is an allowable loss. f) That the loss of Rs. 47,58,873/- be allowed as claimed. 4. That the net assessed income of the appellant be reduced
 by Rs. 94,66,826/- (47,07,953 + 47,58,873)." Disallowance u/s 14A : from page nos. 3 to 12 about the dissatisfaction and the disallowances
have been completed in accordance with the provisions of Rule 8D(2). He
relied on the judgments in the case of Haryana Land Reclamation and
Development Corporation 302 ITR 218 (P&H), Dhanuka & Sons 12
Taxmann 227 (Col.), Abhishek Industries 286 ITR 128 (P&H) 6. Rebutting the arguments of ld. DR, it was argued that most of the
investments were made in the earlier year and from the assessee's own
funds and in the absence of invocation of Section 14A(2) , no further
disallowance is called for. 7. Heard the arguments of both the parties and perused the material
available on record. 8. We find that while the AO has disallowed Rs.1.51 Cr. u/s 14A. The
ld. CIT (A) based on the judgment of the ITAT in the case of ACIT Vs.
Vireet Investments Pvt. Ltd. (2017 TOIL 923 ITAT Del) has reduced
the amount to Rs.47.07 lacs by re-computing the average value of the
investments yielding dividends. 9. We have also gone through the entire assessment order page nos. 3
to 13 and the commentary in the case laws quoted by the Assessing
Officer. Infact, it is a treatise on the provisions of Section 14 which is well
appreciable. However, the AO failed to follow the procedural aspects of
invocation of Section 14A(2) which is a sine qua non for re-computation of
the disallowance. There cannot be anything like deemed satisfaction or
employed dissatisfaction while invoking the provisions of Section 14(2) .
There is no mention by the Assessing Officer as to how the AO is not
satisfied with the correctness of the claim of the assessee. The ld. CIT (A)
also while re-computing the disallowance did not consider this aspect at
all. U.K. Paints India Ltd. 10. Provision of Section 14A reads as under: 11. The above provision is in a sense a taxing exception to the stream of
income which is otherwise exempt, i.e. tax exempt income. The principle
of disallowance is stated in Section 14A(1) . Section 14A(2) prescribes the
mode or methodology for the disallowance and the steps for its
calculation. Unlike the other part of the statute which decree or enjoin the
actual methodology and are substantive, Parliament deemed it appropriate
to leave it to the rule making authority to prescribe the methodology, i.e.
computation. For instance, what are taxable and in what proportion and
the principles applicable are embedded in the statute in certain provisions,
such as Sections 28 to 43 and Sections 80A to 80HHC when it comes to 6 ITA No. 7604/Del/2017 U.K. Paints India Ltd. deductions. Instead of adopting that mode, the Parliament thought it
appropriate to leave the mode to the rule making authority. In that sense,
the rules are not merely procedural but are substantive and can be said to
be engrafted in the statute, as is evident from the mandate of the first
part of Section 14A(2) . That apart, significantly, the question of applying
the statutorily prescribed method would arise only and only if the AO
expresses an opinion rejecting the assessee's methodology and the figure
offered at the time of assessment. This is material because the jurisdiction
to go into the method prescribed in the Rules arises only if the amounts
the assessee offers does not have any realistic correlation with the tax
exempt income. For instance, in a given case, if a tax exempt income is to
the tune of Rs. 5 crores and the assessee is able to satisfy that
expenditure relatable to that income or the reasonable nexus to such
income is Rs. 25 lakhs, there has to be strong reasons why the said
amount of Rs. 25 lakhs are to be rejected. In other words, the opinion of
the assessing officer in the latter part [of Section 14A(2) ] is to be based
upon an appraisal of objective material relating to the assessee's voluntary
disallowance of amount/amounts. Not only that, if in the course of
assessment, the AO enquires from the assessee about the amounts spent,
which are to be disallowed, and the assessee in fact discloses a larger
amount (than the one given in the return), it is still incumbent upon the
AO to enquire into such larger amounts and determine whether it has
nexus with expenditure relatable to exempt income to attract Section
14A(1) . Sans this procedure, Section 14A would be reduced to a mere
formality which it appears to have become in the circumstances of the
case. Holding this the Hon'ble Jurisdictional Court has dismissed the
appeal of the revenue wherein the non-satisfaction as required u/s 14A has not been drawn/specified. U.K. Paints India Ltd. 12. We also find that the matter has been fairly brought to the notice of
the AO who however failed to draw any dissatisfaction as to how the
voluntarily disallowance was unreasonable and non-satisfactory with
regard to the correctness of the claim of the assessee. Hence, we hereby
hold that the disallowance which has been made in contravention with the
prescribed mode, methodology and steps for calculation envisaged u/s
14A(2) is liable to be deleted. Disallowance u/s 37 : 13. During the year, the assessee has invested
Rs.1,50,66,407/- with NSEL in the month of July 2013 and lost
the amo unt o wing to the scam. Out of which an amount of
Rs.49,01,320/- is yet to be recovered. This amount has been
written off in the P&L account. The Assessing Officer held that
since this amount of Rs.49,01,320/- has not been taken into
account while calculating the income in the previous year, the
deduction u/s 36(2) is no t allo wable. 14. Before the ld. CIT (A), the asse ssee has taken two fold
arguments, one that the amount is allowable u/s 36(2)(ii) , the
other being the amount is allowable u/s 28 of the Income Tax
Act, 1961. The ld. CIT (A) held that since the amount has not
been offered to tax hither to, it cannot be considered for
application of provision u/s 36(2)(ii) . The judgment of the
Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of TRF Ltd. 323 ITR 397
found to be inapplicable by the ld. CIT (A). The ld. CIT (A) has
also not allowed the loss as capital loss on the grounds that
there has no t been any existe nce of a capital asse t. U.K. Paints India Ltd. 15. During the hearing before us, the ld. AR argued mainly
that if the amount is not allowable u/s 36(2)(ii) , the same is
still allowable u/s 28 of the Act as the amount has been
invested and lost in the same year. 16. The ld. DR argued that the primary intention of the
assessee is investment and hence at the most it can be allowed
as capital loss. 17. Heard the arguments of bo th the parties and perused the
material available on reco rd. 18. The issue involves deduction under two specific section
namely Section 28 and Section 36 and 37 . The re is a subtle
difference between the business loss and business expenditure
while loss arises from regular operation of the business,
business expenditure is conscious charge in an endeavor to earn
income. Sections 30 to 36 deal specifically with expenditure
allowable in computing the taxable income and Section 37 is a
general provision for allowing the deductions of expenditure
taking into co nsideration the business of the assessee. The
exception being capital expenditure and personal expenditure.
The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Quershi Vs CIT 287
ITR 547 held that explanation II Section 37 is not applicable to
the case of business loss but to business expenditure. In the
instant case, the assessee paid amount to Philip Commodities
India Pvt. Ltd. in the month of June 2013 of Rs.1,50,66,407/-
and also got the amounts till March 2014 and could not receive
money of Rs.47,58,533/- owing to crash of NSEL. This gives rise
to a situatio n where the assessee incurred business loss owing
to his transaction with M/s Philip Commodities India Pvt. Ltd. U.K. Paints India Ltd. Hence, the loss will have to be allowable at loss incidental to
the business while computing the income u/s 28 . Since, it is not
an expenditure , the provisions u/s 30 to 37 are not attracted in
this case. We hold that loss must be during the course or of
incidental to business. It is the nexus with the business which is
more relevant to claim the loss (CIT Vs Textool Co. Ltd. 135 ITR 200). The loss must have a direct and proximate nexus with the
business ope rations and the loss is incidental to it, the n such
loss is deductible as, without business ope rations, no profit can
be earned. If profit is earne d in such an endeavour it is to be
taxed and if loss is earned it is to be allowed. Without going
into the grammatical issue of debt or bad debts or receivables,
since the facts clearly prove that the assessee has incurred loss
by the way of his business with M/s Philip Commodities India
Pvt. Ltd. and the loss has been in the current year itself, in the
peculiar facts and circumstances of the case, such loss incurred
in such transaction with regard to NSEL is allowable. Any
subsequent recovery needs to be taken into consideration in
computation of total income. 19. In the result, the appeal of the assessee is allowed.
Order Pronounced in the Open Court on 27 /11/2020.