Advocate for : MS.S KAKATI
 Advocate for : MR.A CHETIA appearing for BURAGOHAIN TEA COMPANY
 LIMITED and ANR

 BEFORE
 HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE KALYAN RAI SURANA
 HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE SOUMITRA SAIKIA
Dates of Hearing : 18.02.2020, 01.08.2024, 29.08.2024,
 21.10.2024, 03.12.2024, 30.05.2025,
 18.02.2025 & 26.06.2025

Date of Judgment and Order : 29.10.2025

 JUDGMENT AND ORDER (CAV)

 Heard Mr. R. Banerjee, learned Senior Counsel assisted by Mr. D. Sarma
 Page No.# 3/69

and Mr. A.K. Sahewalla, learned counsel for the appellant in Co.App./4/2016,

who is respondent No.1 in connected Co.App./3/2016. Also heard Mr. D.

Mazumdar, learned Senior Counsel assisted by Mr. B. Kaushik, learned counsel

for the private respondent in Co.App./4/2016, who is the appellant in

Co.App./3/2016 and Mr. MR Adhikari, learned CGC for the Union of India in

Co.Appl No.4/2016. 2. These company appeals are filed by the parties, who are aggrieved by the

order dated 28.07.2015 passed in Company Petition No.3 of 2013. The facts

leading to the present litigation between the parties arose from an application

under Sections 391(2) and 394 of the Companies Act, 1956, seeking sanction of

the Court to the scheme of amalgamation of the Buragohain Tea Company Ltd.

(the transferor company) with the B & A Ltd. (the transferee company). 3. The company appeal No.4 of 2016 is filed by the transferor company,

namely the Buragohain Tea Company Ltd., whereas the company appeal No.3 of

2015 was filed by shareholder of the transferor company, namely the

Buragohain Tea Company Ltd., who had opposed the scheme of amalgamation

of the transferor company with the transferee company, as is evident from the

pleadings before this Court is that the transferor company was incorporated on

20.05.1927 under the provisions of Indian Companies Act, 1913 and is existing
 Page No.# 4/69

company under the Companies Act, 1956 . The registered office of the transferor

company is situated at Govindapur Tea Estate, Post Office- Latekujan in the

District of Golaghat. The issued, subscribed and paid up share capital of the

transferor company was Rs.5,30,000.00 divided into 530 equity shares of

Rs.1,000.00 each fully paid. The said company is engaged in the business of

cultivation and sale of tea as on 31st of March, 2012. The value of the assets of

the transferor company is Rs.19,53,87,760.00, whereas the liabilities of the

transferor company stood at Rs.6,26,27,175.00. As such, the value of assets

stood over the liabilities as reflected in the books of accounts maintained by the

transferor company. 4. The transferee company, on the other hand, was incorporated on

01.06.1915 under the provisions of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 . The

transferee company was initially incorporated as Barasali Tea Company Pvt. Ltd.

Subsequently, it was known as the B & A Ltd. w.e.f. 06.12.2000 and is an

existing company within the meaning of the Act of 1956. The registered office of

the transferee company is situated at Indu Bhawan, MG Road, Jorhat. The

authorized share capital of the transferee company is Rs. 10,00,00,000.00

divided into 50,00,000 equity shares of Rs.10.00 each and 5,00,000 redeemable

cumulative preference shares of Rs.100.00 each. The issued, subscribed and
 Page No.# 5/69

fully paid up of share capital of the transferee company is Rs.3,10,00,000.00

divided into 31,00,000 equity shares of Rs.10.00 each fully subscribed and paid

up. The transferee company is engaged in the business of cultivation,

manufacturing and sale of tea as per the audited books of accounts maintained

by the company as on March 31, 2012. The assets of the transferee company

stood at Rs.1,12,48,96,650.00 and the total liabilities stood at

Rs.62,68,26,053.00. Therefore, as per the books of accounts, the assets stood

over the liabilities at Rs.49,80,70,597.00. 5. The transferee company is also a listed company in the stock exchange.

Both the transferor company and the transferee company have their

memorandums and articles of association. 6. The litigation history between the objector and the companies are extracted

below:- II. In connection with T.P. No. 13/397/398/GB/2016 (formerly C.P. No.
 186/2013); there appears to be three connected proceedings, being (i) T.A. No.
 7/2016 (formerly C.A. No. 126/2016); (ii) T.A. No. 27/2016 (formerly C.A. No.
 460/2014); and (iii) T.A. No. 8/2016 (formerly C.A. No. 123/2014).

 II. The said proceedings was dismissed for default by order dated 13.07.2017,
 passed by the learned NCLT-GB and the interim order passed therein was
 vacated. IV. The proceedings of T.P. No. 13/397/398/GB/2016 (formerly C.P. No.
 186/2013), was dismissed for default by order dated 13.07.2017, passed by the
 learned NCLT-GB. Therefore, the appellant in Company Appeal No. 3/2018,
 namely, Smt. Sharmila Vijay Shetty had filed an application for restoring the
 said application to file. The said restoration application under Rule 48 of the
 NCLT Rules, 2016, was registered as Rst. Appl. No. 2/2021. Moreover, as there
 was delay in filing of the said restoration application, she had also filed a
 separate application under the provisions of Rule 15 of the NCLT Rules, 2016,
 praying for condoning the delay of 1332 days beyond the period of limitation in
 filing the connected application. The said application was registered as Misc.
 Application No. 5/2021. The learned NCLT-GB, by order dated 08.04.2022, did
 not find good grounds to condone the delay of 1332 days. Accordingly, prayer
 made in Misc. Application No.5/2021 was not accepted. Consequently, the said
 Rst. Appl. No. 2/2021 was also dismissed as infructuous by order dated
 Page No.# 7/69

 05.05.2023. V. Aggrieved by order dated 13.07.2017, passed by the learned NCLT-GB in (i)
 T.A. No. 7/2016, (ii) T.A. No. 27/2016, and (iii) T.A. No. 8/2016, the said Smt.
 Sharmila Vijay Shetty, had preferred an appeal before the NCLT-PB, which was
 registered as Co. Appeal (AT) No. 110/2022. As there was a delay in filing the
 said appeal, a separate application, being I.A. No. 2273/2022 was also filed
 under Rule 11 and 31 of the NCLAT Rules, 2016, for condoning delay of three
 days. The said application was allowed by a common order dated 20.09.2022,
 passed in Co. Appeal No. 110/2022 and I.A. No. 2273/2022. However, by the
 said order, the learned counsel for the said Smt. Sharmila Vijay Shetty was
 permitted to withdraw the said Co. Appeal No. 110/2022 and all the
 interlocutory applications. VI. The said Smt. Sharmila Vijay Shetty filed another company petition under Section 245 of the Companies Act, 2013, in respect of the affairs of the
 transferee company before the NCLT-GB, being CP No. 10/245/2020, which was
 transferred to the NCLT, Principal Bench [hereinafter referred to as "NCLT-PB" 7. As per the scheme of amalgamation which is placed before the Court as a

part of the pleadings, the transferor company was proposed to be transferred or

amalgamated into the transferee company. The justification for the proposed

amalgamation was on the ground that the transferor company had a tea garden

namely Govindapur Tea Estate in the District of Golaghat and because of

disputes arising with its workers, the Tea Estate was shut down in the year

2005. A company by the name of Rockland Realty Pvt. Ltd. took over the

management of the transferor company by acquiring the majority shares in May,

2011. A petition for voluntary liquidation of the transferor company was also

filed before the Gauhati High Court which was subsequently permitted to be

withdrawn by the Court on the 07.05.2011. The Rockland Realty Pvt. Ltd.

although a company having separate juristic identity, is, however, managed and

controlled by the management of the transferee company namely the B & A Ltd.

After the majority shares were acquired by the Rockland Realty Pvt. Ltd. in the

transferor company, the estate operated by the transferor company namely

Govindapur Tea Estate was resumed under the new management. The tea

estate was able to achieve a turn around by production of 8.5 lakh kgs of tea in

green leaf form. After revival of the business of the transferor company, it was

found to have good potential and a stable business. However, the transferor
 Page No.# 11/69

company does not have a processing or a manufacturing unit of its own and

therefore has to sell the green tea leaf which is produced in the estate. The tea

leaf produced by the tea estate under the transferor company is sold to the

Mokrung Tea Estate which is situated at a distance of 55 km and which tea

estate belongs to the transferee company. The tea purchased from the tea

estate of transferor company is processed in the manufacturing unit to produce

black tea. The Mokrung Tea Estate processing unit has production capacity of 20

lakh kgs of black tea. Under such circumstances, it was felt that amalgamation

of both the companies will benefit the business of both the transferor company

and the transferee company and it can be carried out more conveniently and

advantageously. On one hand, it was felt that the amalgamation will enable the

transferee company to expand its business with an established tea estate and to

utilize its surplus tea processing capacity more productively, in larger quantities

of black tea from its own captive production. On the other hand, the

amalgamation will also benefit the transferor company as it will have direct

access to in house tea processing capacity as well as to the expertise and the

well established management setup, distribution, marketing network and

goodwill of the transferee company which is already an established entity in the

business of manufacturing and sale of black tea. The particulars of the benefits

vis-à-vis the transferor company and the transferee company have been laid out
 Page No.# 12/69

in the scheme of amalgamation, which is a part of the pleadings before this

Court. The scheme of amalgamation was to be given effect to from the

appointed date, which was on 01.04.2011, which, however, will be made the

effective date only upon the sanction granted by this Court. Once the sanction is

granted by this Court, with effect from the appointed date, all assets, property

rights, powers, debts, liabilities, duties and obligations of the transferor

company will be transferred to the transferee company. All the employees

serving under the transferor company will become employees of the transferee

company with effect from the appointed date, on such terms and conditions

which, however, would not be less favorable to them than those applicable to

them under the transferor company as on the said date. All the proceedings

pending by or against the transferor company as on the effective date including

contracts would stand transferred to the transferee company and would be

enforceable by or against the transferee company. The most important or rather

controversial clause of the scheme is that on the scheme becoming effective,

the transferee company shall issue allot to the shareholders of the transferor

company 786 equity shares of Rs.10.00 each in the transferee company for

every one equity share of Rs.1,000.00 each in the transferor company. In terms

of the scheme, the transferor company and the transferee company had

approached this Court by filing company petition No.2/2013, whereupon this
 Page No.# 13/69

Court by order dated 11.02.2013 directed holding of separate meetings of the

shareholders of both the transferor company and transferee company on

23.03.2013 for the purposes of consideration of the said scheme of

amalgamation. This Court appointed a Chairman of the said meeting also,

notices of the said meeting were sent to the equity shareholders of both

companies by post and were also published in two local newspapers on

27.02.2013, namely "The Assam Tribune" in English and the "Dainik

Janambhumi" in Assamese. The meeting as directed to be held by the Court

was duly held on 23.03.2013. The equity shareholders of both the companies

held two separate meetings and the scheme of amalgamation was thereafter

approved. The proceedings of the said two meetings thereafter were placed

before the Court by the appointed Chairman. It is stated by both the transferor

company and the transferee company that this scheme of amalgamation would

be beneficial to both the companies. The shares of the transferee company for

the shares of the transferor company have been fixed on the basis of the

valuation report of M/s. Ghosal Barnwal & Co., Chartered Accountants. Further,

Microsec Capital Ltd., an independent Merchant Banker Company, has also

confirmed that such ratio vis-a-vis the share exchange ratio arrived at between

the transferor company and the transferee company is fair. The transferee

company being a company listed in the "Bombay Stock Exchange" has also filed
 Page No.# 14/69

this scheme of amalgamation with the Stock Exchange whereafter the "Bombay

Stock Exchange" has given its No Objection to the said scheme. 8. Before the learned Single Judge in the proceedings seeking sanction of the

scheme of amalgamation, an affidavit was filed on behalf of Smt. Sharmila Vijay

Shetty, namely the appellant in Company Appeal No.3/2016. In the said

affidavit, it was mentioned that said Smt. Sharmila Vijay Shetty is holding

3,16,200 shares in her own name and is a joint shareholder of another block of

8,61,918 shares along with her father Lt. Hemendra Prasad Barooah. Smt.

Sharmila Vijay Shetty is the daughter of Lt. Hemendra Prasad Barooah who was

the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the transferee company. In the said

affidavit it is stated that with a view to divest the appellant Smt. Sharmila Vijay

Shetty from the same block of shares in the transferee company Title Suit No.

41 of 2012 was filed by Lt. Hemendra Prasad Barooah and it is claimed that

although the block of 8,61,918 shares are in the joint name of the plaintiff,

namely Lt. Hemendra Prasad Barooah and Smt. Sharmila Vijay Shetty but for all

practical purposes the plaintiff, namely Lt. Hemendra Prasad Barooah is the sole

beneficial shareholder and the reason for introducing Smt. Sharmila Vijay Shetty

as the joint owner was only for operational convenience and to ensure that after

the death of the plaintiff the demat account should not be frozen. Accordingly,

the plaintiff sought for a declaration that he is the sole and absolute owner of
 Page No.# 15/69

the said block of 8,61,918 shares of the transferee company along with other

incidental reliefs. The learned Civil Judge by order dated 13.08.2012 directed

the parties to maintain status quo in respect of the block of shares lying in the

demat account of the HDFC Bank. Thereafter, another title suit being Title Suit

No.47/2012 was filed by Lt. Hemendra Prasad Barooah against Smt. Sharmila

Vijay Shetty and four others before the Civil Court at Jorhat questioning the

transfer of 2,21,230 shares of Rs.10.00 each of the transferee company by Lt.

Usha Barooah, wife of Lt. Hemendra Prasad Barooah to Smt. Sharmila Vijay

Shetty. An injunction application was also filed in the said title suit. The learned

Civil Judge, Jorhat by order dated 29.08.2012 restrained the defendant, namely

Smt. Sharmila Vijay Shetty from selling, dealing, transferring, alienating,

encumbering or exercising the voting right over the said 2,21,230 shares and

also restrained the transferee company and the concerned bank, namely the

HDFC Bank Ltd. from making payment of any dividend on the said shares to

Smt. Sharmila Vijay Shetty. The order dated 29.08.2012 stood subsequently

modified by order dated 09.11.2012 passed by the Court of Civil Judge, Jorhat

in FAO No.19/2012, whereby the Court directed release of the dividend to Smt.

Sharmila Vijay Shetty for the financial year 2011-2012 without prejudice to the

rights of the plaintiff to claim temporary injunction for release of dividends in

the future. Before the learned Company Judge, it was urged on behalf of Smt.
 Page No.# 16/69

Sharmila Vijay Shetty that although the scheme was stated to have been

notified to the "Bombay Stock Exchange" on 25.05.2012, it was actually notified

on 26.09.2012. This scheme was not discussed in the meeting of Board of

Directors of the transferee company on 25.05.2012 but was inserted

subsequently because of certain disputes between the management and the

objector namely Smt. Sharmila Vijay Shetty. It was urged that in order to dilute

the shareholding of the objector Smt. Sharmila Vijay Shetty in the transferee

company and also to cover up the mismanagement and oppression of the

transferee company, the entire scheme to merge the transferor company having

no intrinsic value with the transferee company was concealed. A petition being

Company Petition No.923/2012 was filed by Lt. Hemendra Prasad Barooah

before the Company Law Board, New Delhi Bench under Section 111A of the

Companies Act, to have the name of the objector Smt. Sharmila Vijay Shetty be

deleted as a shareholder in respect of the joint shareholding of 8,61,918 shares.

The said petition was dismissed by the Company Law Board on 31.07.2012 and

before the Company Law Board no information with regard to the amalgamation

scheme was ever placed. It was urged before the Company Law Board that the

management fabricated the minutes of the board meeting dated 25.05.2012

and notified the "Bombay Stock Exchange" on 26.09.2012. It was also urged

before the learned Company Judge that Rockland Reality Private Ltd. holds 510
 Page No.# 17/69

out of 580 shares of the transferor company which is 87.93% and therefore, the

directors of Rockland Reality Private Ltd. are also the directors and employees of

the transferee company, therefore, all the shareholders of Rockland Reality

Private Ltd. are directors of the transferee company and the sister-concern and

therefore, the deception is apparent. The objector Smt. Sharmila Vijay Shetty

also alleged the non receipt of notice of the meeting of the transferee company

which was held on 23.03.2013. It is alleged that the notice was sent to the

address not currently occupied by the objector and was received after the

meeting. Finally, it was also contended that the amalgamation scheme is devoid

of any justification and the exchange ratio of the shares is wholly prejudicial to

the interest of the transferee company in which the public is interested. The

scheme has not been placed before the Court in terms of the Circular of the

"Security Exchange Board of India" (SEBI) dated 14.02.2013 which lays down

certain steps to be taken prior to submission of the scheme before the High

Court. Therefore, in view of the non compliance of the SEBI circular sanctions

sought for from the learned Company Judge should not be granted. On the

other hand, on behalf of the transferee company in respect of the objections

raised by the objector Smt. Sharmila Vijay Shetty, it was urged that the personal

and private disputes raised by the objector with regard to her late father namely

Lt. Hemendra Prasad Barooah cannot be a ground to reject the sanction sought
 Page No.# 18/69

for towards the amalgamation of the companies. It was urged that the objector

Smt. Sharmila Vijay Shetty was appointed as a whole time Director of the

transferee company w.e.f. 01.06.2010. However, she did not devote any time

and attention to the affairs of the company and did not even attend a single

meeting of the Board of Directors. Taking the view that her continuance as a

whole time Director was not in the interest of the company, the Board of

Directors adopted the resolution dated 19.09.2011 by terminating her

appointment as Director of transferee company. It was stated before the learned

Company Judge that due notice of the meeting proposed to be held was

dispatched to the address of the objector Smt. Sharmila Vijay Shetty which is

available in the register of shareholders. The objector however, never attended

any of the annual general meetings of the transferee company in the past. 9. An affidavit was also filed by the Regional Director, Eastern Region,

Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Government of India, Kolkata. In the said affidavit,

it was stated that as per the balance sheet of both companies, they appear to

be secured creditors. However, no meeting of the creditors has been held

and/or consent obtained. Further, the scheme of amalgamation does not

confirm to the requirement of Accounting Standard 14 read with Section 211

(3A) of the Act. The Regional Director further objected that the provision to pay

786 equity shares of Rs.10.00 each of the transferee company against one
 Page No.# 19/69

equity share of Rs.1,000.00 of the transferor company is not at all justified.

Further, that the provision to pay 786 equity shares of Rs.10.00 each of the

transferee company against one equity share of the transferor company is not at

all justified considering the status of the two companies. It was stated that the

balance sheet of the transferor company does not portray the correct picture of

the said company having a direct impact on the share exchange ratio of 1:786.

It was therefore stated by the Regional Director in the affidavit that the scheme

appears to be against the interest of the minority shareholders and is meant to

give exclusive benefits to the promoter group. These objections of the Regional

Director have also been questioned by the transferee company stating that the

ratio of shares is fixed on the basis of earning capacity of the transferor

company and not on the basis of its net asset value or net worth as appearing

in the balance sheet as alleged by the Regional Director. The exchange ratio has

been fixed on the basis of profitability and earnings of the transferor company

and not on the basis of the net worth of the two companies. 10. The objector Smt. Sharmila Vijay Shetty, by way of a supplementary

affidavit filed before the learned Company Judge submitted that upon expiry of

her father Lt. Hemendra Prasad Barooah, by operation of law the block of

8,61,918 equity shares has devolved upon her and therefore she represents

27.8% of the issued and paid up capital of the transferee company and along
 Page No.# 20/69

with the total amount of shares that she holds in the transferee company it

comes to 38% of the shares of the transferee company. 11. The scheme for which the sanction has been sought to be obtained from

this Court is nothing but a device to deplete the shareholding ratio of the

objector Smt. Sharmila Vijay Shetty from the share held in the transferee

company. It is a ploy to deprive the objector of the legitimate control that she

has over the transferee company by virtue of holding 38% of the shares in the

transferee company. The scheme therefore seeks to materially alter the

shareholding pattern and structure of the transferee company which would be

an act prejudicial to and detrimental to the interest of the objector being the

single largest shareholder of the transferee company. 12. Considering the objections raised before the learned Company Judge and

on the basis of the pleadings and materials placed before the Court and after

referring to the judgments cited before the Court, ultimately came to the

conclusion that the exchange ratio proposed in the scheme appears to be

heavily loaded in favor of the shareholders of the transferor company and is

therefore unrealistic and illogical, if not downright absurd. The learned Company

Judge held that the shares of the Company which was under lockout for a long

period with accumulated losses cannot be valued in the manner projected in the
 Page No.# 21/69

scheme that is for every 1,000 value of shares in the transferor company, a

shareholder in the transferor company would get Rs.7860.00 value of shares in

the transferee company. The learned Company Judge did not accept the

explanation. It was held by the learned Company Judge that nothing has been

placed before the Court and no material has been disclosed either in the petition

or in the affidavits as to how the particular exchange ratio has been worked out.

The learned Company Judge was of the view that while from the standpoint of

commercial strength of the two companies the exchange ratio does not appear

to be sound, the same can also be examined in the light of the recent litigation

history of the transferee company vis-a-vis the objector. The learned Company

Judge concluded that although the Court had in principle agreed to sanction the

scheme, but the exchange ratio was found to be unfair and unjust and not

based on the market realities. Accordingly, it appeared to the learned Company

Judge that it would be just and proper if the Registrar of Companies is directed

to examine the matter through experts and determine a fair and just exchange

ratio. The learned Company Judge directed and concluded that the exchange

ratio of 786 fully paid up equity shares of Rs.10.00 each of the transferee

company to be issued and allotted for every 1 equity share of Rs.1,000 in the

transferor company does not appear to be faire and justified and accordingly the

Court directed the Registrar of the Companies, Shillong to work out the
 Page No.# 22/69

exchange ratio in a fair manner through independent experts keeping in view

the discussions made above and submit the same to the Court in two months

time and thereafter the Court may sanction the scheme with modifications and

the matter was directed to be listed on 16.11.2015. It is against this order both

the company appeals have been filed questioning the direction of the learned

Company Judge. While the appeal preferred on behalf of the transferee

company has questioned the correctness of the conclusions of the learned

Company Judge in issuing the directions overlooking the commercial wisdom of

the shareholders of both the companies who have accepted and sanctioned the

scheme in the shareholders meetings held and that to pursuant to the directions

issued by this Court and which resolutions have been placed before the Court in

respect of the meetings presided over by the Chairman appointed by the Court

itself. The appellants questioned the direction of the learned Company Judge to

the Registrar of Companies to revisit the share valuation arrived at by the

shareholders in respect of the transferor company vis-a-vis the transferee

company. The basic grievance of the transferee company is that the powers of

the Company Court to sanction an amalgamation scheme is limited to examine

the nature of the scheme and the procedures followed or required to be

followed. The learned Company Judge is not an appellate authority to re-decide

the scheme or the benefits thereof, over and above the resolutions adopted by
 Page No.# 23/69

the shareholders of the companies and overlooking the commercial wisdom of

the shareholders of these companies who are better equipped to decide in the

best interests of the company. There was no dispute between the shareholders

of the transferor company and the transferee company in respect of adopting

resolution to pass the scheme of amalgamation. Under such circumstances, it

was not open to the learned Company Judge to decide on the question of share

equation equivalent and to redirect the Registrar of Companies to re-examine

the matter by using independent authorities and to place the same before the

Court. 13. On the other hand, the Objector, Smt. Sharmila Vijay Shetty has assailed

the order of the learned Company Judge on the ground that once the Court

found that the share exchange ratio was not just and proper, the scheme should

have been rejected there, instead of referring the matter back to the Regional

Director, Ministry of Corporate Affairs to revisit the share exchange ratio by

using any independent methods. The Court also did not take into consideration

the fact that the objector was never served with a proper notice to attend the

meeting of shareholders, wherein she could have raised these objections. Under

such circumstances, the company petition seeking sanction of the scheme of

amalgamation ought to have been rejected by the learned Company Judge. Page No.# 24/69 14. Mr. R. Banerjee, learned Senior Counsel, appearing for the appellant in

Company Appeal No.4 of 2016 and for the transferee company namely B&A

Limited submits that the claim of the objector Smt. Sharmila Vijay Shetty as

regards the share exchange ratio would be restricted only to the extent of her

original shareholding ratio. It is submitted that the Company Court did not have

sufficient grounds or mechanism to find fault with the share exchange ratio.

While the Company Court accepted the amalgamation as based on commercial

considerations, the ultimate direction for re-evaluation of the share exchange

ratio by the Regional Director, Ministry of Corporate Affairs was totally uncalled

for and therefore, the same is bad in law. Learned Senior Counsel for the

appellant further submits that the respondents failed to show as to how the

share exchange ratio was violated or bad, or how the share holding was

affected and in the absence of such specific averments made before the learned

Company Judge, direction should not be issued for re-evaluation of the share

exchange ratio. It is submitted that if the amalgamation in its present form is

allowed, the objector will stand to gain a larger share holding ratio. The learned

Senior Counsel therefore submits that the Regional Director has no locus standi

to object. The shares will ultimately remain in the transferee group of

companies. The minority shareholder, namely the objector, also has no locus

standi to question the share exchange ratio as the company petitions which
 Page No.# 25/69

were filed earlier by her stood dismissed. There was no material before the

Court furnished by the objector to show that the scheme in its present form is

opposed to the minority shareholders and which requires re-evaluation or

reconsideration of the share exchange ratio. The learned Senior Counsel

extraneously submits that any dispute with regard to the share exchange ratio

can always be resolved by the shareholders upon such objection being raised

before the Court, the Company Court is required to see whether the scheme

has the approval of the shareholders and that appropriate resolutions have been

adopted by the shareholders of both the transferor and the transferee of the

company in terms of the amalgamation scheme. 15. Unless the Court finds that the scheme is itself opposed to public policy,

there was no occasion for the learned Company Judge not to grant sanctioned

to the resolutions adopted by the shareholders of both the companies to

implement the scheme of amalgamation. The learned Senior Counsel submits

that the conclusions arrived at by the learned Company Judge is itself contrary

inasmuch as while it concludes that it is up to the commercial wisdom of the

shareholders to agree or disagree to the amalgamation scheme, yet the learned

Company Judge proceeded to direct re-evaluation of the shareholding equation

solely relying on the affidavit filed by the Regional Director of Corporate Affairs,

Government of India. It is reiterated that without any specific materials before
 Page No.# 26/69

the Regional Director of Corporate Affairs, it has no locus standi to question or

raise objections to the shareholding ratio adopted by the shareholders of both

the Companies in their meetings. 16. The Learned Senior Counsel has pressed into service the judgment of the

Apex Court in Miheer H. Mafatlal vs. Mafatlal Industries Ltd. reported in (1997)

1 SCC 579 to submit that family disputes, litigation between the parties,

financial conditions of the transferor company vis-à-vis the transferee company

are not grounds on which the Company Court can decline to grant sanction to a

scheme of amalgamation which has been passed by proper resolution adopted

by the shareholders of the transferor and the transferee company. Such

resolutions adopted by the shareholders are on the basis of their commercial

wisdom which ordinarily ought not to be questioned by the Company Court

unless there are specific materials to show that the adopted resolutions were

not bona fide in nature or contrary to the procedure and the law prescribed. The

learned Senior Counsel submits that the Objectors Smt. Sharmila Vijay Shetty,

never attended any annual general meetings and also abstain from being

present in the meetings scheduled for the shareholders of the transferor

company, namely, Buragohain Tea Co. Ltd and which meetings were directed to

be conducted in terms of the orders passed by this Court and under the

chairmanship of court-appointed chairpersons. The only ground now urged
 Page No.# 27/69

before the Court by the objector is that she was never informed of the meeting.

In terms of the directions of the Company Court, the notice of the meetings

were widely circulated in both English and vernacular newspapers and individual

copies of the notices were sent to the shareholders including to the objectors at

the addresses which are recorded in the register maintained by the company.

Therefore, the objection from the objector that the notices were sent to the

address in which the appellant earlier resided cannot be accepted, as there is no

material before the Company Court brought by the objector to show that the

change of address was duly notified to the company as per the procedure

prescribed. Therefore, the claim of the objector that resolution adopted in the

meeting was without proper notice to the objector cannot be and ought not to

have been accepted as a ground by the Company Court to return a finding for

re-evaluation of the shareholding ratio by the Regional Director of Corporate

Affairs, Government of India. 17. In addition to the judgment of the Apex court rendered in Miheer H.

Mafatlal (supra), the learned Senior Counsel refers to the judgment of

Maharashtra Apex Corporation Ltd., reported in (2005) 124 Comp 637 Para 48

to submit that absence of a shareholder in spite of the notice in a meeting will

amount to implied consent of the shareholder. Learned Senior counsel submits

that this judgment in Maharashtra Apex Corporation Ltd (supra) was
 Page No.# 28/69

subsequently followed in CRB Capital Markets Limited vs. Reserve Bank of India reported in (2006) 127 DLT 576. It is further submitted that the law laid down

by the Apex Court in Miheer H. Mafatlal (supra) has been consistently followed

in subsequent judgments more particularly in Hindustan Lever Employees' Union

vs. Hindustan Lever Ltd. and Others reported in AR 1995 SC 470 paragraph 3,5,

6, 31 and 58. In Dinesh Vrajlal Lakhani vs. Parke Davis (India) Limited reported

in (2005) 124 Comp Cas 728 paragraph 5, 12 (i), 18, 19 and 40. 18. Learned Senior Counsel also presses into service the judgment of the Apex

Court reported in GL Sultani and Another vs. Securities & Exchange Board of

India and Others reported in (2007) 5 SCC 133 to submit that the learned Single

Judge was swayed by litigation history and the face value of the shares which

was totally uncalled for and unwarranted in the facts of the case. He therefore

submits that the directions of the learned Company Judge remitting the matter

back to the Director of Corporate Affairs, Government of India for pre-evaluation

of the share exchange ratio should be interfered with and set-aside and the

scheme of amalgamation placed before the Court be approved. 19. Mr. D. Mazumdar, learned Senior Counsel assisted by Mr. B. Kaushik,

learned counsel for the respondent no.2 in Co. Appeal No.4 of 2016 and for the

appellants in Co.Appeal No.3 of 2016 and appearing for the objectors Smt.
 Page No.# 29/69

Sharmila Vijay Shetty strongly disputes the submission placed by the senior

counsel for the companies in favour of the scheme of amalgamation. He submits

that the scheme of amalgamation is nothing but a ploy to dilute the

shareholding of the objectors and therefore, the same amounts to occasional

mismanagement of the company. It is submitted that the shareholding ratio

being an imperial part of the scheme, the learned Company Judge ought to

have refused the sanction as it was found the share exchange ratio is unfair.

The objector, being aggrieved by this specific direction of the learned Company

Judge, the matter was remanded back to the Regional Director of Corporate

Affairs for re-evaluation of the share exchange ratio. It has been submitted that

there was gross unfairness and illegality in the determination of share exchange

ratio, which is only intended to benefit the promoters of Rockland Pvt. Ltd., who

are the promoters of the transferee company. It was submitted that Rockland

Pvt. Ltd. owns 510 equity shares out of 580 shares in Buragohain Tea Co. Ltd.

and therefore, was a majority. 20. The learned Senior Counsel submits that once the learned Company Judge

finds that the share exchange ratio adopted in the scheme was unfair, the

sanction ought to have been refused and the matter should have been closed

then and there. The further directions to re-evaluate the share exchange ratio

by the Registrar of Companies, Corporate Affairs was totally uncalled for since it
 Page No.# 30/69

had already appeared to the learned Company Judge that the share exchange

ratio was unfair in so far as the stake of the objector is concerned. The learned

Senior Counsel submits that under Section 392 of the Companies Act, the

Company Court has the power to modify the scheme only to see that the

scheme has properly worked. No such directions were issued for modifying the

scheme. Therefore, it is submitted that the proper course of action ought to

have been resorted to by the Company Court was to reject the sanction of the

scheme of amalgamation. It is submitted that the direction given by the learned

Company Judge goes beyond the powers specified under the statute itself. It is

submitted that the effect of the learned Company Judge's order is to give

powers to the Regional Director of the ROC for re-evaluation of the share

exchange ratio, which power is not even bestowed on such an authority under

the Companies Act, 1956 . Therefore, such directions issued by the learned

Company Judge being beyond the powers bestowed under the statute was

totally uncalled for and the same should therefore be set aside and interfered

with and the sanction for scheme of amalgamation ought not to be granted and

the appeals filed by the Companies should be dismissed. Referring to the

judgment of the Company Court, it is submitted that there are specific findings

on fact that no materials have been placed by the transferee company to show

as to how the share exchange ratio is arrived at although it was the
 Page No.# 31/69

responsibility of the transferee company to place these materials. Therefore, in

view of such findings, the learned Company Judge ought to have declined to

grant sanctions to the scheme of amalgamation. Instead the direction was given

to the Regional Director of Corporate Affairs, ROC to re- evaluate the share

exchange ratio. The further contention of the Senior counsel is that the

Buragohain Tea Company Ltd. and its tea estate remained closed for about 6

(six) years due to lock look out. The Rockland Realty Private Limited Company

holds 96% of the shares of the transferor company and the management of the

said Rockland Realty is the same as that of the transferee company namely B&A

Limited. Therefore, the Rockland Realty Private Limited Company had controlled

the affairs of the transferor company, namely, Buragohain Tea Company Ltd.

The entire exercise by the transferee company in working out the share

exchange ratio was with the sole purpose of restraining the objector from

rightfully acquiring her shares to which she is entitled and she was

unceremoniously removed from the Board of Directors of the Buragohain Tea

Company Ltd. It is further submitted that the objector is a joint holder of a block

of 861918 shares along with her late father Hemendra Prasad Barooah. The

learned Senior Counsel submits that these shares jointly held by the objectors

Smt. Sharmila Vijay Shetty have not yet been transferred to her name after the

expiry of the co-joint holder, namely, late Hemendra Prasad Barooah, her father. Page No.# 32/69

This is contrary to Rule 12.6.1 of the NSDL Rules. In terms of the said rules on

the death of a joint holder, the shares held by depository are to be transferred

to the joint holder. There is no explanation by any of the parties before this

Court as to why these shares have not been transferred in the name of the

objector Smt. Sharmila Vijay Shetty and why the Board of Directors of both the

companies declined to pass appropriate resolutions by transferring these shares

in the name of the surviving holder namely Smt. Sharmila Vijay Shetty. The

learned Senior Counsel submits that shareholding ratio is based on purported

evaluations made by so called experts. However, there is no material placed

before the Company Court as to how the evaluation was worked out in arriving

at the share exchange ratio. Even in the report of the Chartered accountant

enclosed in the pleadings the method of arriving at the share exchange ratio has

not been disclosed. 21. Going by the share exchange ratio arrived at and from the annual accounts

of the company it is clear that there is an abnormal projection of rise and the

value of land. The land value has been shown to increase by 200% in one year,

a projection which is admittedly without any material. The learned Senior

Counsel also refers to the judgment of Miheer H. Mafatlal (supra) to submit that

the parameters of grant of sanction to a scheme of amalgamation by Company

Court is laid down by the Apex Court in the said judgment . Therefore, it is clear
 Page No.# 33/69

that the penultimate direction of the Company Board of revaluation of the share

exchange ratio is contrary not only to the statutes but also to the law laid down

by the Apex Court in Miheer H. Mafatlal (supra). He submits that the law laid

down in Miheer H. Mafatlal (supra) is subsequently followed in several other

judgments, namely, Hindustan Lever Employees' Union vs. Hindustan Lever

Limited reported in 1995 Supp (1) SCC 499, Meghal Homes Private Limited vs.

Shree Niwas Girni K.K. Samiti reported in (2007) 7 SCC 753 paragraph 45 and

46 and Chembra Orchard Produce Ltd. v. Regional Director of Company Affairs reported in (2009) 2 SCC 547 para 13. 22. Mr. D. Mazumder, learned Senior Counsel for Smt. Sharmila Vijay Shetty

therefore submits that no notice of the meeting of the shareholders was served

on the objector namely Srimati Vijay Shetty approving the scheme. The very

scheme of amalgamation is a ploy to dilute the shareholding of the objector

namely Srimati Vijay Shetty who holds about 38% of the shares. The scheme of

amalgamation is contrary to the semi notification regarding the amalgamation

sought to be adopted by the transferor and transferee companies. He submits

that the learned Company Judge returns a finding of mismanagement and

destruction or loss of audited records and therefore, under such circumstances,

there is no basis for coming to the conclusions by the learned Company Judge

that the scheme was in the business interests of both parties. The scheme and
 Page No.# 34/69

the share exchange ratio was sought to be prepared by experts, however, the

methodology adopted and the materials on which the scheme was prepared and

placed for approval of the shareholders and the opinion given by the Chartered

accountant as well as by the independent auditors that the scheme of

amalgamation is based in the business interest of both the companies, cannot

be accepted in the absence of any specific materials being placed before this

Court as the same is not even enclosed to the scheme of amalgamation which is

a part of the pleadings in the present proceedings. The net result of the scheme

of amalgamation, if accord a sanction by the Company Board, will amount to

bringing the shareholding ratio of the objector, namely, Smt. Sharmila Vijay

Shetty, to below 5% from the current 38%. Therefore, he submits that the

directions of the Company Court to the Registrar of companies for arriving at a

reevaluation of the shareholding ratio be interfered with and the scheme of

amalgamation ought not to be sanctioned and the petition filed by the

companies seeking sanction for amalgamation should be dismissed and a

further direction be issued to the respective companies to transfer the shares

jointly held by the objector along with her late father to her name in view of the

expiry of the co-joint holder namely, late Hemendra Prasad Barooah. 23. The learned counsel for the parties have been heard. Pleadings available

on records have been carefully perused. Page No.# 35/69 24. From the facts urged before the Court it appears that there are numerous

litigations between the company and the Objector, namely, Smt. Sharmila Vijay

Shetty as well as between one of the directors B&A Limited. From the pleadings

it appears that there is a family dispute regarding the control of the companies

between late Hemendra Prasad Barooah and his daughter/objector and other

shareholders and management of the company. 25. The question before this Court is whether the company court, while

considering a proceeding for accord a sanction to a scheme of amalgamation

under the Companies Act , can issue the directions as have been done in the

present proceedings which are under appeal. In order to examine this question,

it will be necessary to refer to the relevant sections of the Companies Act, 1956 .

The provisions for facilitating reconstruction and amalgamation of companies

are prescribed under Section 394 of the Companies Act 1956. Under Section 394 of the Companies Act, 1956, a notice is to be given to Central Government for

applications under section 391 and 394 of the Act, 1956. Section 395 prescribes

the power and duty to acquire the shares of shareholders dissenting from the

scheme or the contract approved by majority. The relevant Provisions of these

Sections are extracted below: the [Tribunal] may, either by the order sanctioning the compromise or arrangement or by a subsequent
order, make provision for all or any of the following matters : 395. POWER AND DUTY TO ACQUIRE SHARES OF SHAREHOLDERS DISSENTING FROM
SCHEME OR CONTRACT APPROVED BY MAJORITY -(1) Where a scheme or contract involving the
transfer of shares or any class of shares in a company (in this section referred to as "the transferor-
company") to another company (in this section referred to as "the transferee-company"), has, within
four months after the making of the offer in that behalf by the transferee-company, been approved by
the holders of not less than nine-tenths in value of the shares whose transfer is involved (other than
shares already held at the date of the offer by, or by a nominee for, the transferee-company or its
subsidiary), the transferee-company may, at any time within two months after the expiry of the said
four months, give notice in the prescribed manner to any dissenting shareholder, that it desires to
acquire his shares ; and when such a notice is given, the transferee company, shall, unless, on an
application made by the dissenting shareholder within one month from the date on which the notice
was given, the 1 [Tribunal] thinks fit to order otherwise, be entitled and bound to acquire those shares
on the terms on which, under the scheme or contract, the shares of the approving shareholders are to
be transferred to the transferee-company : and where a shareholder gives notice under clause (b) with respect to any shares, the transferee-
company shall be entitled and bound to acquire those shares on the terms on which, under the scheme
or contract, the shares of the approving shareholders were transferred to it, or on such other terms as
may be agreed, or as the 1 [Tribunal] on the application of either the transferee-company or the
shareholder thinks fit to order. (3) Where a notice has been given by the transferee-company under sub-section (1) and the 1
[Tribunal] has not, on an application made by the dissenting shareholder, made an order to the
contrary, the transferee-company shall, on the expiry of one month from the date on which the notice
has been given, or, if an application to the 1 [Tribunal] by the dissenting shareholder is then pending,
after that application has been disposed of, transmit a copy of the notice to the transferor-company
together with an instrument of transfer executed on behalf of the shareholder by any person appointed
by the transferee-company and on its own behalf by the transferee-company, and pay or transfer to the
transferor-company the amount or other consideration representing the price payable by the
transferee-company for the shares which, by virtue of this section, that company is entitled to acquire ;
and the transferor-company shall - (a) thereupon register the transferee-company as the holder of those shares, and (b) within one month of the date of such registration, inform the dissenting
 shareholders of the fact of such registration and of the receipt of the amount or other
 consideration representing the price payable to them by the transferee company : Page No.# 39/69

company, namely : company, disclosing the steps it has taken to ensure that necessary cash will be
 available ; (iii) every circular containing, or recommending acceptance of, such offer shall be
 presented to the Registrar for registration and no such circular shall be issued until it
 is so registered ; (iv) the Registrar may refuse to register any such circular which does not contain the
 information required to be given under sub- clause (i) or which sets out such
 information in a manner likely to give a false impression ; and (v) an appeal shall lie to the 1 [Tribunal] against an order of the Registrar refusing to
 register any such circular. (b) Whoever issues a circular referred to in sub-clause (iii) of clause (a), which has not been
registered, shall be punishable with fine which may extend to 2 [five thousand] rupees. (5) In this section - (a) "dissenting shareholder" includes a shareholder who has not assented to the
 scheme or contract and any shareholder who has failed or refused to transfer his
 shares to the transferee-company in accordance with the scheme or contract ; (b) "transferor-company" and "transferee-company" shall have the same meaning as
 in section 394 . (6) In relation to an offer made by the transferee-company to share- holders of the transferor-
company before the commencement of this Act, this section shall have effect - (a) with the substitution, in sub-section (1), for the words "the shares whose transfer
 is involved (other than shares already held at the date of the offer by, or by a nominee
 for, the transferee-company or its subsidiary)," of the words "the shares affected" and
 with the omission of the proviso to that sub-section ; (b) with the omission of sub-section (2) ; (c) with the omission in sub-section (3) of the words "together with an instrument of
 transfer executed on behalf of the shareholder by any person appointed by the
 transferee-company and on its own behalf by the transferee-company" and of the
 proviso to that sub-section ; and (d) with the omission of clause (b) of sub-section (5)." 26. There is no dispute that an application made before this Court for
 Page No.# 40/69

proceeding with the scheme of amalgamation, the Court directed the transferor

and the transferee company to hold its meeting with the shareholders under the

chairmanship of four appointed chairpersons. Both the companies accordingly

held its meetings and had approved the scheme of amalgamation and the same

by way of proper application is placed before the Court for seeking approval/

sanction to the scheme already approved by the shareholders of the respective

companies. The dispute raised to the scheme of amalgamation is on account of

non receipt of notice by the Objector, namely, Smt. Sharmila Vijay Shetty who

claims to be a share holder of Buragohain Tea Estate which is the transferor

company. According to the objector, the notice was required to be served on the

objector was never served and consequently, she was unaware of the meeting

of shareholders held between the parties and therefore she was deprived of her

opportunity to raise objections in the meeting that was concluded purportedly

without issuance of notice to the objector. As have been discussed, the basic

nuance of the objector is that she was deprived of the right of hearing with the

shareholders meeting as she holds a sizeable percentage of shares. This

contention of the objector is disputed by the learned Senior Counsel

representing the Companies that the objector never attended any Annual

General Meeting and the notice was served on the address which was available

in the register maintained by the Companies of the members/ shareholders. The
 Page No.# 41/69

claim of the objector is that the address to which the notice was sent was her

earlier address and the notice ought to have been sent to her present address is

also disputed on the ground that the objector being a shareholder is aware of

the procedure required to be maintained and any change in the notice ought to

have been brought to the notice of the companies so that the necessary

changes would have been effected to the address maintained in the registers by

the Company. Therefore, such recourse which ought to have been taken by the

objector not having been resorted to, there is no fault on the part of the

company and the meeting was held in terms of the liberty granted by the Court

under the chairmanship of the Court appointed Chairperson. That apart, it was

widely circulated in both English and vernacular newspapers. Therefore, the

claim of the objector that she was unaware of the meeting cannot be accepted. 27. The learned Company Judge elaborately examined the litigation history and

the share holding pattern urged before the Court. The Company Court upon

examination of all the material before the Court and upon consideration of the

submissions rendered by the Counsel by the parties in principle upheld a

scheme of amalgamation initiated by the Companies. The Companies however,

found that the shareholding ratio was the Company. The Company, however,

was not convinced that the shareholding ratio adopted was in the best interest

of the shareholders in the absence of the methodology resorted to by the
 Page No.# 42/69

Company or by their financial experts in arriving at the shareholding ratio. In

the absence of such material being placed before the Court, the learned

Company Judge directed the Registrar of Companies to examine the matter and

give a detailed report as to the bona fide of the shareholding ratio projected or

adopted by the Companies. It is this direction that is being received before this

Court both on behalf of the Companies as well as by the objector. In the appeals

filed on behalf of the Companies, the grievance is that the learned Company

Judge found that having accepted the amalgamation scheme in principle, there

was no occasion for the learned Company Judge to issue the further direction to

the Registrar of Companies to re-evaluate the share exchange ratio and submit

a report. The objector, on the other hand, has filed the appeal questioning the

penultimate direction passed by the learned Company Judge on the ground that

the learned Company Judge opined that the share exchange ratio arrived was

not proper and it required re-evaluation. Accordingly, it is submitted that the

scheme for amalgamation ought to have been rejected without any further

direction as had been issued. 28. According to the objector the further direction was totally uncalled for and

it has the effect of directing the Registrar of Companies to act beyond the

powers prescribed under the statute itself. Therefore, to that extent the orders

on the directions passed by the learned Company Judge are required
 Page No.# 43/69

interference and the scheme ought to be rejected on that count only. It will be

apposite here to refer to the judgment of Miheer H. Mafatlal (supra) which was

referred to and relied upon by the learned Company Judge and which has also

been pressed into service by Mr. Banerjee, learned Senior Counsel as well as by

Mr. R. Mazumdar, learned Senior Counsel. In Miheer H. Mafatlal (supra), the

Apex Court was considering the order passed by Division Bench of the High

Court of Gujarat, whereby the Appeal of the appellant therein was dismissed

confirming the order of the learned Single Judge who had sanctioned the

scheme of amalgamation of two public limited companies, namely, Mafatlal

Industries Limited being the transferee company with which Mafatlal Fine

Spinning and Manufacturing Company Limited being the transferor company

was to be amalgamated. The Single judge therein granted the sanction to the

transferee company to amalgamate it in the transferor company under Section

391(2) under the Companies Act of 1956. This order was assailed before the

Division Bench which came to be dismissed and consequently, the matter

traveled in the Supreme Court. 29. The Court after consideration of the facts and circumstances of the case,

formulated some questions in paragraph-26 of the said judgment . Those

questions are quoted herein below: 30. All the above mentioned questions were answered in negative by the Apex

Court. However for the purposes of this Court, question nos. 4 and 5 will be

relevant. The paragraphs no.39, 40, 41 and 42 in the judgment dealing with

these questions are also are extracted below : It is, therefore, obvious that unless a separate and different type of scheme of compromise is
offered to a sub-class of a class of creditors or shareholders otherwise equally circumscribed
by the class no separate meeting of such sub-class of the main class of members or creditors
is required to be convened. On the facts of the present case the appellant has not been able to
make out a case for holding a separate meeting of dissenting minority equity shareholders
represented by him. The fourth point for determination, therefore, is answered in the
negative. That takes us to the consideration of the last point for determination placed for our
consideration by the learned Senior Counsel for the appellant.
Point 5 40. It was submitted that the exchange ratio of equity shareholders so far as the transferee-
Company is concerned works very unfairly and unreasonably to them. As per the proposed
Scheme 5 equity shares of the transferor-Company are to be exchanged for 2 equity shares of
the transferee-Company. So far as this contention is concerned it has to be kept in view that
before formulating the proposed scheme of compromise and amalgamation an expert opinion
was obtained by the respondent-Company as well as the transferor-Company, namely, MFL
on whose Board of Directors the appellant himself was a member. M/s C.C. Chokshi & Co., a
reputed firm of chartered accountants, having considered all the relevant aspects suggested
the aforesaid exchange ratio keeping in view the valuation of shares of respective companies.
It must at once be stated that valuation of shares is a technical and complex problem which
can be appropriately left to the consideration of experts in the field of accountancy.
Pennington in his Principles of Company Law mentions four factors which had to be kept in
mind in the valuation of shares: For arriving at the fair value of share, three well-known methods are applied: So many imponderables enter the exercise of valuation of shares. M/s C.C. Chokshi & Co.
considering all the relevant aspects and obviously keeping in view the accounting principles
underlying the valuation of shares suggested the said ratio which was found acceptable both
by the Board of Directors of the respondent-Company as well as the Board of Directors of
the transferor-Company. That the appellant himself as a director of the transferor-Company
gave green signal to the Scheme and to this very ratio of exchange of shares. But Shri M.J.
Thakore, appearing for the appellant, submitted that from the point of view of the transferor-
Company it was very profitable to have two shares of the transferee-Company against five
shares of the transferor-Company. But the difficulty arises only from the point of view of the
transferee-Company shareholders. According to Shri Thakore the proper exchange ratio
would be one share of the transferee-Company to six shares of the transferor-Company. It is
difficult to appreciate this contention of the appellant. It has to be kept in view that the
appellant never bothered to personally remain present in the meeting of equity shareholders
for pointing out the unfairness of this exchange ratio to his brother equity shareholders who
were likely to be affected by the very same ratio as the appellant. His interest at least to that
extent was entirely common and parallel to that of other equity shareholders. But he had no
time to remain personally present. He sent his proxy only to record his dissent vote which
was in microscopic minority of 5% as compared to 95% majority vote. Not only that even
before the Court he did not submit any contrary expert opinion regarding the valuation of
shares of transferor and transferee companies for supporting his ipse dixit that the correct
ratio would be 6 : 1 so far as transferor and transferee companies were concerned. Shri
Shanti Bhushan, learned Senior Counsel for the appellant, having realised this difficulty
submitted that at least these proceedings are continuation of proceedings before the High
Court, therefore, this Court may now in order to satisfy itself send for the opinion of an
expert. It is difficult to agree. The appellant who was propounding this theory of correct
exchange ratio had nothing to offer in support of his contention both before the learned
Single Judge as well as before the High Court. It has to be kept in view that the matter was
fiercely contested on all permissible points before the learned Single Judge. The proceedings
were pending before the High Court for more than two years from 8-2-1994 till 12-7-1996
when the Division Bench disposed of the appeal. For all these years neither before the
learned Single Judge nor before the High Court in appeal the appellant thought it fit to
request the Court to either call for the report of any other expert on valuation of shares nor
did he himself get such report for placing for consideration of the Court in support of his
supposed better ratio. It has also to be kept in view that which exchange ratio is better is in
the realm of commercial decision of well-informed equity shareholders. It is not for the Court
to sit in appeal over this value judgment of equity shareholders who are supposed to be men
of the world and reasonable persons who know their own benefit and interest underlying any
proposed scheme. With open eyes they have okayed this ratio and the entire Scheme. 40% of
the majority shareholders were financial institutions who were supposed to be well versed on
the aspect of valuation of shares. They had no objection to the exchange of 2 shares of the
transferee-Company for 5 shares of the transferor-Company. As stated earlier it was a sort of
a package duly considering all imponderables and implicit factors which the shareholders
had to keep in view for deciding whether to approve the Scheme of Amalgamation or not. The
exchange ratio was only one of the items. They thought it fit in their commercial wisdom to
accept the Scheme as a whole along with the exchange ratio presumably in expectation of
better profits in years to come when the amalgamated companies would operate and when
 Page No.# 48/69

there would be, according to the shareholders, better prospects of earning greater dividends.
They willingly agreed to give in exchange two shares of the transferee-Company for five
shares of the transferor-Company and made them available to the shareholders of the
transferor-Company. The appellant was representing only 5% dissenting shareholders and
his objection was almost a voice in the wilderness, which did not appeal to the majority of
his brother shareholders. Shri Shanti Bhushan, learned Senior Counsel for the appellant, in
this connection invited our attention to the observation of the Division Bench in its judgment
at page 375 wherein it has been observed that "if one were to examine the exactitude of
exchange ratio that may be offered fairly on the arithmetic scale by taking into consideration
various details, there is some force in what were suggested by Mr B.R. Shah on behalf of the
appellant. However, keeping in view the scope of enquiry which the Court is required to
undertake and with whose findings we are concerned, it will not be permissible for us in law
to undertake this exercise in the facts and circumstances of the present case in absence of
bona fides". We fail to appreciate how this observation can be of any avail to the learned
Senior Counsel for the appellant as all that the Court wanted to suggest was that even
assuming that some other exchange ratio can be suggested to be a better one, it was for the
equity shareholders who acted bona fide in the interest of their class as a whole to accept
even a less favourable ratio considering other benefits that may offset such less favourable
ratio once an amalgamation goes through. We wholly concur with this view. In this
connection we may also refer to a decision of Maugham, J., in Hoare & Co. (No. 2) Re ,
case [1933 All ER Rep 105, Ch D] wherein it was laid down that where statutory majority
had accepted the offer the onus must rest on the applicants to satisfy the court that the price
offered is unfair. In this connection the following pertinent observations were made by the
learned Judge: We may also refer to a decision of the Gujarat High Court in Kamala Sugar Mills Ltd.,
Re [(1984) 55 Comp Cas 308 (Mad)] dealing with an identical objection about the exchange
ratio adopted in the scheme of compromise and arrangement. The Court observed as under: These observations in our view represent the correct legal position on this aspect. We may
also keep in view that in the present case not only expert like M/s C.C. Chokshi & Co. had
suggested the ratio but another independent body ICICI Security & Finance Company
Limited reached the same conclusion which was conveyed by its letter dated 10-11-1993 to
 Page No.# 49/69

the company approving of the entire Scheme along with suggested ratio. A mere look at the
report of the Chartered Accountants M/s C.C. Chokshi & Co. shows that various factors
underlying the scheme of compromise and arrangement were taken into consideration while
suggesting the exchange ratio by the said reputed firm of chartered accountants. The said
opinion had taken into account the fact that on amalgamation shares have to be cancelled.
Increase in share premium account in equity capital of the MIL will also have to be taken
into account as a result of final call made in respect of Bond 1992 issue. It has also taken
into account significant increase in the paid-up equity of MIL as a result of issue of its Bond
in the international market. It has undertaken exercise in calculating net worth of the two
companies. It has also referred to the method of valuation of exchange ratio on the basis of
earning per share of the two companies by taking into account five years' working results of
the two companies making certain adjustments. Apart from taking into consideration the past
results of the two companies, the chartered accountants have taken into account the
potentiality of the two companies to earn profit in future, considering existing expansion and
modernisation of projected and planned expenditure by the MIL as well as subsidiary and
sister concern in hand. It has also taken into account the market price of equity shares of
past 24 months, declared dividend by the two companies, the overall effect of security scam
in the market price, realisable investment and their market value. Taking into consideration
multifarious considerations detailed in the report, note was also taken of the fact that MIL
held substantial shares of MFL, which shall have to be cancelled on merger of MFL with
MIL. Two fully paid-up equity shares of MIL of Rs 100 each for every five equity shares of Rs
100 each of MFL, was considered to be a fair exchange ratio to be offered as term of
amalgamation. It was clarified that,
 "in absolute terms it would mean that the MIL is keeping consideration of
equity capital of par value of Rs 7.77 crores which at the last issue price of share
amounts about to Rs 38.84 crores and which at the current market price amounts to
Rs 57.4 crores. At the stage of dividend declared for 1992-93, it will result in a cost
in terms of distributable profits of Rs 2.72 crores. For an undertaking in a diversified
business activity of textile and chemicals with the total infrastructure, know-how,
technology tie-up and range of established products and capacities and potential the
aforesaid cost to MIL can be regarded as fair and reasonable". 41. The aforesaid report of the chartered accountants heavily weighed with the
transferor-Company's Board of Directors which comprised, amongst others, the appellant
himself but also the Board of Directors of the transferee-Company and also weighed with the
General Body of equity shareholders who approved the Scheme and the ratio with
overwhelming majority. No grievance, therefore, can be made by the appellant at the stage of
company petition proceedings for demonstrating the ratio to be ex facie unfair and
unacceptable as the appellant would like to have it. 42. Undeterred by this position Shri Thakore, learned counsel for the appellant in
 Page No.# 50/69

support of his contention that the exchange ratio was ex facie unfair to the shareholders of
the transferee-Company, invited our attention to the statement showing the working results of
both the transferor and transferee companies as found at Annexures M and N of Vol. II of the
Paper-Book at pages 534 and 535. He submitted that these statements showing the working
results of the company for the last five years ended 31-3-1993 showed that the earning per
equity share after depreciation and tax so far as the respondent-Company was concerned
was Rs 30 while earning of transferor-Company Mafatlal Fine Spinning and Manufacturing
Company Limited was only Rs 7 for the relevant five years. He also invited our attention to
the break-up value of the shares of company on the basis of the balance sheet as on 31-3-
1993 so far as the respondent-Company was concerned. Annexure 'Q' at page 538 showed
value per equity share of Rs 100 each at Rs 1515 while so far as the transferor-Company was
concerned the break-up value per equity share was Rs 259. That may be so. But as a package
deal when the Scheme as a whole is examined and found to be advantageous to the economic
and commercial interest of shareholders as a class only one or two item simplicitor for
deciding the exchange ratio cannot tilt the balance as so many factors and aspects would
enter that exercise. It was undertaken by expert body of chartered accountants like M/s C.C.
Chokshi & Co. Before parting with the discussion on this point it would be apposite to refer
to the decision of this Court in Hindustan Lever Employees' Union [1995 Supp (1) SCC
499] . In paragraph 41 of the Report Justice Sen speaking for himself and Venkatachaliah,
C.J. and to which Sahai, J. concurred has observed that the problem of valuation in the case
of amalgamation of two companies has been dealt with by Weinberg and Blank in the
book Take-overs and Mergers in which it is stated that some or all of the 8 listed factors will
have to be taken into account in determining the final share exchange ratio. The Court has
also approved the fixation of exchange ratio of the shares of the companies on the basis of
adoption of combination of two or more well-known methods of valuation of shares out of
many such methods. In para 37 of the Report it has been observed that the question is what
method should be adopted for arriving at a proper exchange ratio. The usual rule is that
shares of the going concern must be taken at quoted market value. This principle was also
recognised by this Court in the case of CWT v. Mahadeo Jalan [(1973) 3 SCC 157 : 1973
SCC (Tax) 103] . It is not the case of the appellant that M/s C.C. Chokshi & Co. had not
taken into consideration the quoted market value of shares of both the companies which were
going concerns and which were subjected to the Scheme of Amalgamation in question. For
 Page No.# 51/69

 all these reasons, therefore, there is no substance in this contention canvassed on behalf of
 the appellant that the exchange ratio was ex facie unfair to the equity shareholders of the
 transferee-Company. The fifth point for determination is also, therefore, answered in the
 negative." 31. The Apex Court in the said judgment interpreted the scope of judicial

review a Company Court in a proceeding for sanction as per provisions. Relevant

paragraphs i.e. paragraph nos. 28 & 29 are extracted below: the Court may, on the application of the company or of any creditor or member of the
 company, or in the case of a company which is being wound up, of the liquidator, order a
 meeting of the creditors or class of creditors, or of the members or class of members, as
 the case may be, to be called, held and conducted in such manner as the Court directs.

 (2) If a majority in number representing three-fourths in value of the creditors, or class of
 creditors, or members, or class of members as the case may be, present and voting either
 in person or, where proxies are allowed under the rules made under Section 643 , by
 proxy, at the meeting, agree to any compromise or arrangement, the compromise or
 arrangement shall, if sanctioned by the Court, be binding on all the creditors, all the
 creditors of the class, all the members, or all the members of the class, as the case may
 be, and also on the company, or, in the case of a company which is being wound up, on
 the liquidator and contributories of the company: The aforesaid provisions of the Act show that compromise or arrangement can be proposed
between a company and its creditors or any class of them or between a company and its
members or any class of them. Such a compromise would also take in its sweep any scheme
of amalgamation/merger of one company with another. When such a scheme is put forward
by a company for the sanction of the Court in the first instance the Court has to direct
holding of meetings of creditors or class of creditors or members or class of members who
are concerned with such a scheme and once the majority in number representing three-
fourths in value of creditors or class of creditors or members or class of members, as the
case may be, present or voting either in person or by proxy at such a meeting accord their
approval to any compromise or arrangement thus put to vote, and once such compromise is
sanctioned by the Court, it would be binding to all creditors or class of creditors or members
or class of members, as the case may be, which would also necessarily mean that even to
dissenting creditors or class of creditors or dissenting members or class of members such
sanctioned scheme would remain binding. Before sanctioning such a scheme even though
approved by a majority of the concerned creditors or members the Court has to be satisfied
that the company or any other person moving such an application for sanction under sub-
section (2) of Section 391 has disclosed all the relevant matters mentioned in the proviso to
sub-section (2) of that section. So far as the meetings of the creditors or members, or their
respective classes for whom the Scheme is proposed are concerned, it is enjoined by Section
391(1)(a) that the requisite information as contemplated by the said provision is also
required to be placed for consideration of the voters concerned so that the parties concerned
before whom the scheme is placed for voting can take an informed and objective decision
whether to vote for the scheme or against it. On a conjoint reading of the relevant provisions
 Page No.# 53/69

of Sections 391 and 393 it becomes at once clear that the Company Court which is called
upon to sanction such a scheme has not merely to go by the ipse dixit of the majority of the
shareholders or creditors or their respective classes who might have voted in favour of the
scheme by requisite majority but the Court has to consider the pros and cons of the scheme
with a view to finding out whether the scheme is fair, just and reasonable and is not contrary
to any provisions of law and it does not violate any public policy. This is implicit in the very
concept of compromise or arrangement which is required to receive the imprimatur of a court
of law. No court of law would ever countenance any scheme of compromise or arrangement
arrived at between the parties and which might be supported by the requisite majority if the
Court finds that it is an unconscionable or an illegal scheme or is otherwise unfair or unjust to
the class of shareholders or creditors for whom it is meant. Consequently it cannot be said
that a Company Court before whom an application is moved for sanctioning such a scheme
which might have got the requisite majority support of the creditors or members or any class
of them for whom the scheme is mooted by the company concerned, has to act merely as a
rubber stamp and must almost automatically put its seal of approval on such a scheme. It is
trite to say that once the scheme gets sanctioned by the Court it would bind even the
dissenting minority shareholders or creditors. Therefore, the fairness of the scheme qua them
also has to be kept in view by the Company Court while putting its seal of approval on the
scheme concerned placed for its sanction. It is, of course, true that so far as the Company
Court is concerned as per the statutory provisions of Sections 391 and 393 of the Act the
question of voidability of the scheme will have to be judged subject to the rider that a
scheme sanctioned by majority will remain binding to a dissenting minority of creditors or
members, as the case may be, even though they have not consented to such a scheme and
to that extent absence of their consent will have no effect on the scheme. It can be
postulated that even in case of such a scheme of compromise and arrangement put up for
sanction of a Company Court it will have to be seen whether the proposed scheme is lawful
and just and fair to the whole class of creditors or members including the dissenting minority
to whom it is offered for approval and which has been approved by such class of persons
with requisite majority vote. 29. However further question remains whether the Court has jurisdiction like an appellate
authority to minutely scrutinise the scheme and to arrive at an independent conclusion
 Page No.# 54/69

whether the scheme should be permitted to go through or not when the majority of the
creditors or members or their respective classes have approved the scheme as required by Section 391 sub-section (2). On this aspect the nature of compromise or arrangement
between the company and the creditors and members has to be kept in view. It is the
commercial wisdom of the parties to the scheme who have taken an informed decision about
the usefulness and propriety of the scheme by supporting it by the requisite majority vote
that has to be kept in view by the Court. The Court certainly would not act as a court of
appeal and sit in judgment over the informed view of the parties concerned to the
compromise as the same would be in the realm of corporate and commercial wisdom of the
parties concerned. The Court has neither the expertise nor the jurisdiction to delve deep into
the commercial wisdom exercised by the creditors and members of the company who have
ratified the Scheme by the requisite majority. Consequently the Company Court's jurisdiction
to that extent is peripheral and supervisory and not appellate. The Court acts like an umpire
in a game of cricket who has to see that both the teams play their game according to the
rules and do not overstep the limits. But subject to that how best the game is to be played is
left to the players and not to the umpire. The supervisory jurisdiction of the Company Court
can also be culled out from the provisions of Section 392 of the Act which reads as under: Of course this section deals with post-sanction supervision. But the said provision itself clearly
earmarks the field in which the sanction of the Court operates. It is obvious that the
supervisor cannot ever be treated as the author or a policy-maker. Consequently the
propriety and the merits of the compromise or arrangement have to be judged by the parties
who as sui juris with their open eyes and fully informed about the pros and cons of the
scheme arrive at their own reasoned judgment and agree to be bound by such compromise
or arrangement. The Court cannot, therefore, undertake the exercise of scrutinising the
scheme placed for its sanction with a view to finding out whether a better scheme could have
been adopted by the parties. This exercise remains only for the parties and is in the realm of
commercial democracy permeating the activities of the concerned creditors and members of
the company who in their best commercial and economic interest by majority agree to give
 Page No.# 55/69

green signal to such a compromise or arrangement. The aforesaid statutory scheme which is
clearly discernible from the relevant provisions of the Act, as seen above, has been subjected
to a series of decisions of different High Courts and this Court as well as by the courts in
England which had also occasion to consider schemes under pari materia English Company
Law. We will briefly refer to the relevant decisions on the point. But before we do so we may
also usefully refer to the observations found in the oft-quoted passage in Buckley on the
Companies Act, 14th Edn. They are as under: In the case of Alabama, New Orleans, Texas and Pacific Junction Rly. Co., Re [(1891) 1 Ch
213 : (1886-90) All ER Rep Ext 1143] the relevant observations regarding the power and
jurisdiction of the Company Court which is called upon to sanction a scheme of arrangement
or compromise between the company and its creditors or shareholders were made by Lindley,
L.J. as under: To a similar effect were the observations of Fry, L.J., which read as under: In Anglo-Continental Supply Co. Ltd., Re [(1922) 2 Ch 723 : 91 LJ Ch 658] Ashtury, J., a
century later reiterated the very same propositions as under: The learned Single Judge of the Calcutta High Court in the case of Mankam Investments Ltd.,
Re [(1995) 4 Comp LJ 330 (Cal)] relying on a catena of decisions of the English courts and
Indian High Courts observed as under on the power and jurisdiction of the Company Court
which is called upon to sanction a scheme of merger and amalgamation of companies: We may also in this connection profitably refer to the judgment of this Court in the case
of Employees' Union v. Hindustan Lever Ltd. [1995 Supp (1) SCC 499] wherein a Bench of
three learned Judges speaking through Sen, J. on behalf of himself and Venkatachaliah, C.J.,
and with which decision Sahai, J., concurred, Sahai, J., in his concurring judgment in the
aforesaid case has made the following pertinent observations in this connection in the
Report: (SCC pp. 506-08, paras 3-6)
 "But what was lost sight of was that the jurisdiction of the court in sanctioning a claim of
 merger is not to ascertain with mathematical accuracy if the determination satisfied the
 arithmetical test. A company court does not exercise an appellate jurisdiction.
*** Section 394 casts an obligation on the court to be satisfied that the scheme for
 amalgamation or merger was not contrary to public interest. The basic principle of such
 satisfaction is none other than the broad and general principles inherent in any
 compromise or settlement entered between parties that it should not be unfair or contrary
 to public policy or unconscionable. In amalgamation of companies, the courts have
 evolved, the principle of 'prudent business management test' or that the scheme should
 not be a device to evade law. But when the court is concerned with a scheme of merger
 with a subsidiary of a foreign company then the test is not only whether the scheme shall
 Page No.# 57/69

 result in maximising profits of the shareholders or whether the interest of employees was
 protected but it has to ensure that merger shall not result in impeding promotion of
 industry or shall obstruct growth of national economy. Liberalised economic policy is to
 achieve this goal. The merger, therefore, should not be contrary to this objective. Reliance
 on English decisions Hoare & Co. Ltd., Re [1933 All ER Rep 105, Ch D] and Bugle Press
 Ltd., Re [1961 Ch 270 : (1960) 1 All ER 768 : (1960) 2 WLR 658] that the power of the
 court is to be satisfied only whether the provisions of the Act have been complied with or
 that the class or classes were fully represented and the arrangement was such as a man
 of business would reasonably approve between two private companies may be correct
 and may normally be adhered to but when the merger is with a subsidiary of a foreign
 company then economic interest of the country may have to be given precedence. The
 jurisdiction of the court in this regard is comprehensive."
Sen, J., speaking for himself and Venkatachaliah, C.J., also towed the line indicated by Sahai,
J., about the jurisdiction of the Company Court while sanctioning the scheme and made the
following pertinent observations: (SCC p. 528, para 84)
 "An argument was also made that as a result of the amalgamation, a large share of the
 market will be captured by HLL. But there is nothing unlawful or illegal about this. The
 Court will decline to sanction a scheme of merger, if any tax fraud or any other illegality is
 involved. But that is not the case here. A company may, on its own, grow up to capture a
 large share of the market. But unless it is shown that there is some illegality or fraud
 involved in the scheme, the Court cannot decline to sanction a scheme of amalgamation.
 It has to be borne in mind that this proposal of amalgamation arose out of a sharp decline
 in the business of TOMCO. Dr Dhavan has argued that TOMCO is not yet a sick Company.
 That may be right, but TOMCO at this rate will become a sick Company, unless something
 can be done to improve its performance. In the last two years, it has sold its investments
 and other properties. If this proposal of amalgamation is not sanctioned, the consequence
 for TOMCO may be very serious. The shareholders, the employees, the creditors will all
 suffer. The argument that the Company has large assets is really meaningless. Very many
 cotton mills and jute mills in India have become sick and are on the verge of liquidation,
 even though they have large assets. The Scheme has been sanctioned almost
 unanimously by the shareholders, debenture-holders, secured creditors, unsecured
 creditors and preference shareholders of both the Companies. There must exist very
 strong reasons for withholding sanction to such a scheme. Withholding of sanction may
 turn out to be disastrous for 60,000 shareholders of TOMCO and also a large number of
 its employees." In view of the aforesaid settled legal position, therefore, the scope and ambit of the
jurisdiction of the Company Court has clearly got earmarked. The following broad contours of
such jurisdiction have emerged: The aforesaid parameters of the scope and ambit of the jurisdiction of the Company Court
which is called upon to sanction a scheme of compromise and arrangement are not
exhaustive but only broadly illustrative of the contours of the Court's jurisdiction. 32. The Apex Court upon due consideration of the matter has summarized the

scope and admit the jurisdiction of the Company Court while sanctioning a

scheme of amalgamation/merger as under. These are enumerated as below: 33. In Hindustan Labour Employees (supra), the Apex Court concluded that

there are three well-accepted methods to arrive at the fair value of shares,

namely: 34. The Apex Court held that the Company Court will decline to sanction a

scheme of merger if any fraud or illegality is found to be involved. There is no

quarrel with the proposition of law which has been laid down by the Apex Court

in the judgments relied upon at the bar before this Court. The judgments being

elaborately discussed in the judgment under the Appeal of the Company Court,

the same are not referred to here again. It is also seen from the judgment of

the Company Court that the scheme in principle appears to be based on

business/commercial consideration conditions of the two companies. The

Company Court therefore saw no hindrance or impediment in the sanction of

the scheme. The only hindrance noticed by the Company Court is the allotment

of issue or shares by the transferring company as per the shares exchange ratio

in absence of any materials being placed into the Company Court, the Company
 Page No.# 61/69

court returned the finding that the share exchange ratio appears to be heavily

loaded in favour of the shareholders of the transferor company and it appears to

be unrealistic and illogical, if not downright absurd. The basis for this conclusion

is the fact that the transferor company was under lockout for a long period and

had accumulated losses and had also filed a petition before the High Court for

voluntary liquidation which although was subsequently withdrawn. Before the

Company Court it was urged that as per the share exchange ratio projected in

the scheme for every 1000 value of shares of the transferee company a

shareholder in the transferor company will get Rs. 7860/- value of shares in the

transferee company and that this exchange ratio has been fixed on the basis of

the earning capacity of transferor company and not on the basis of net asset

value or net worth as appearing from the balance sheet. Such explanation did

not inspire confidence of the learned Company Judge to sanction the said

scheme as no materials have been disclosed in the petition or in the pleadings

as to how the particular share exchange ratio is worked-out. The learned

Company Judge had concluded from the standpoint of commercial strength of

the two companies that the share exchange ratio did not appear to be sound

and that the same is also required to be examined in the light of the litigation

history of the transferee company and the following consequential directions

were issued: 35. A careful perusal of the penultimate directions reveal that at direction No.i,
 Page No.# 63/69

the learned Company Judge clearly ordered " Court has no objection to sanction

the scheme for amalgamation of Buragohain Tea Company (Transferor

Company) with B&A Ltd. (Transferee Company) ". This direction therefore makes

it apparent that the Court was inclined to grant sanction in favour of the

amalgamation coupled with the observation made in the said order that the

Court finds this scheme to be acceptable in principle. However, the scheme was

no sanctioned for the reasons reflected in the directions at serial No.ii, iii & iv of

the judgment. 36. In so far as the direction No.ii is concerned, the same is based on the

objections raised by the Regional Director. However, the affidavit filed by the

Regional Director raising objections to the share exchange ratio, however, is also

not found to be supported by any material and justification as to why the

objection was raised by the Regional Director and whether such objection has

been raised on the basis of due examination of the audited accounts and the

mechanism adopted by the financial experts/ advisors of the companies while

working out the share exchange ratio and/or whether such share exchange ratio

is otherwise contrary to the procedure prescribed or to the statute itself.

Consequently, the directions contained at serial no.iii also does not appear to be

based on any materials available before the Company Court and which

ultimately resulted in the directions at serial No.iv. This Court is of the view that
 Page No.# 64/69

ordinarily under these facts and circumstances, this Court would have been

inclined to interfere with the directions from No. ii, iii and iv in view of the clear

direction at serial No.i. However, the Court cannot be oblivious of the fact that

the proposed appointed date as per the scheme of amalgamation was

01.04.2011 and the order was passed by the learned Company Judge in

Company Petition no. 3 of 2013 filed by Buragohain Tea Co. Ltd., namely, the

transferor company on 28.07.2015. It is not in dispute that the scheme of

amalgamation adopted by the shareholders and members of the transferor

company and the transferee company was based on the commercial wisdom of

the shareholders and the advisories issued by the financial advisors or auditors

in these companies. It will therefore not be a prudent to accept that business

and commercial decisions were taken in the meetings held in the year 2013

when the shareholders agreed to the appointed date of the scheme to be

01.04.2011 subject to sanction being granted by the High Court, the business

dynamics and the commercial equations between the companies have continued

to remain static for more than a decade and the grant of sanction at this stage

by the Company Court will be in the best interest of the companies concern. 37. The judgments which are referred to by the parties and which still governs

the field clearly reveals that the Company Court does not sit as an appellate

authority over the scheme of amalgamation placed before the Court and will not
 Page No.# 65/69

review the matter by substituting the decision or the conclusion arrived at by

the shareholders/members with the views of the Company Court. The law as it

stands today also makes it very clear that there is ample power bestowed on

the Company Court that while examining a scheme of amalgamation for grant of

sanction, the Company Court will not accord sanction to any or all schemes

placed before it. The law laid down by the Apex Court makes it emphatically

clear that Company Court can lift the veil to look into the true nature and the

interest of the shareholders and the bona-fides of the resolutions adopted vis-a-

vis the scheme of amalgamation and if it is found that there is any illegality or

fraud or that the scheme is against a public policy, the Company Court is within

its power refuse to grant sanction to such schemes of amalgamation with or

without modifications. Therefore, merely because the learned Company Judge

had issued directions which has been sought to be questioned in these appeals,

it cannot be said that the learned Company Court exceeded its jurisdiction under

the prescribed provisions of the statute while examining the scope of grant of

sanction of scheme of amalgamation. As such it cannot be said that the

directions issued by the learned Company Judge are perverse and/or it contrary

to the statute and that it requires interference. 38. Having said that there is another aspect which has not been urged before

the Court which nevertheless, will have to be addressed by the Court. The
 Page No.# 66/69

impugned order dated 28.07.2015 which is challenged before this Appellate

Court is an order passed with interim directions by the learned Company Judge.

By order dated 28.07.2015 passed in Company Petition No. 3 of 2013, which has

been assailed in the present proceedings, the learned Company Judge did not

dispose of the said petition, rather the Registrar of Companies was directed to

re-evaluate the share exchange ratio and thereafter, submit the same to the

Court within two months and it was left open by the Court to consider the

scheme for sanction with modifications, if required. Thereafter, in view of the

appeals being filed and orders being passed by the Court, the Company Petition

No. 3 of 2013 could not be disposed of. 39. Under such circumstances, this appeal assailing the order dated

28.07.2015 passed by the learned Company Judge is essentially an Intra Court

appeal against an interim order. Ordinarily in an Intra Court appeal unless the

directions issued by the Court are found to be perverse or contrary to the

findings of the statutes or the law laid down by the Apex Court, an Appellate

Court will not ordinarily interfere in such Intra Court Appeal. Reference at this

stage is required to be made to the judgment of the Apex Court rendered in Management of Narendran and Company Private Limited vs. Workmen of

Narendra and Company reported in (2016) 3 SCC 340, where the Apex Court

declined to interfere with the orders passed in an Intra Court appeal unless the
 Page No.# 67/69

same is found to be perverse or contrary to law. In Management of Narendran

and Company Private Limited (supra), the Apex Court held that in an Intra Court

Appeal on a finding of fact unless the Appellate Bench concludes that the

findings of the learned Single Judge are perverse, it will not disturb the same,

merely because another or a better view is possible, the order of the learned

Single Judge should not be interfered with unless both sides agree for a fairer

approach on the review. Similar view is also reiterated in N. Ramachandra

Reddy vs. State of Telangana and others reported in (2020) 16 SCC 478 as well

as in Airports for Authority of India vs. Pradip Kumar Banerjee reported in

(2025) 4 SCC 111. It was held by the Apex Court that the Appellate Court must

restrain itself and interference into a judgment passed by the learned Single

Judge is permissible only, if the judgment of the learned Single Judge is

perverse or suffers from an error apparent in law. Unless such a finding is

recorded, a Division Bench ordinarily ought not to interfere with the findings of

the learned Single Judge in an Intra Court Appeal. 40. Having considered the law laid down by Apex Court in this aspect, it must

be stated that this principle must be strictly followed when examining an Intra

Court Appeal, considering that the order assailed in these appeals is an interim

order and this order did not conclude the proceedings pending before the

Company Court. Page No.# 68/69 41. Under such circumstances, this Court is of the considered view that taking

into consideration the fact that both the parties before the Court are agreed that

consequential directions for re-evaluation of share exchange ratio were not

called for, this Court considers it appropriate to dispose of these appeals

remitting the matters back to the learned Company Judge to conclude the

proceedings, as expeditiously as possible, without being influenced by the

penultimate directions issued by the learned Company Judge on 28.07.2015. It

will be open for the learned Company Judge to re-evaluate the matter and pass

appropriate orders as to whether the sanction sought for the scheme of

amalgamation ought to be granted with or without modifications. The learned

Company Judge will also be at liberty to call for all the records from either or

both the Companies or from the Registrar of Companies, if the need so arises to

satisfy itself in respect of the share exchange ratio as projected in the scheme

of amalgamation. After evaluating such materials as considered necessary, the

learned Company Judge will dispose of the petition after passing appropriate

order. 42. Till such orders are passed by the learned Company Judge, the directions

contained in the order dated 28.07.2015 passed in Company Petition No.3 of

2015 from serial Nos. i to iv will not be applicable and will not influence the

further proceedings before the learned Company Judge. Page No.# 69/69 43. Accordingly, the Company Appeals stand disposed of in terms of the above. 44. Registry to list this Company Petition No.3/2013 before the appropriate

Bench as early as possible. 45. Interlocutory applications, if any filed in the connected Company Appeals

are also stand disposed of.