cannot be considered as the ratio in Harendranath Sarkar (supra). 52. In Subrata Chattoraj (supra), a chit fund scam involving crores

of rupees invested mainly by the poorer sections of society was sought

to be investigated. The investigation carried out by the State Police was

slothful and therefore the Supreme Court directed that the CBI should

investigate the scam which had its ramifications in several States in

India. While doing so the Court observed, after referring several of its

earlier judgments including in CPDR (supra) that, the Supreme Court

often exercised its power to transfer an investigation from the State

Police to the CBI in order to discover the truth and to meet the ends of
 justice or because of the complexity of the issues arising for

examination or where the case involved national or international

ramifications or where people holding high positions of power and

influence or political clout are involved. The Court held that what was

important was that while the power to transfer is to be exercised

sparingly and with utmost care and circumspection the Court has more

often than not directed transfer of cases where the fact situation so

demanded. 53. The learned Advocate General relied on the judgment in the case

of Secretary, Minor Irrigation & Rural Engineering Services, U.P.

& Ors vs. Sahngoo Ram Arya & Anr reported in (2002) 5 SCC 521

where the Supreme Court observed that though there was no dispute

that the High Court under Article 226 could direct an inquiry by the

CBI, such power should be exercised only in cases where there was

sufficient material to come to a prima facie conclusion that there was

need for such an inquiry. The Court observed that the High Court

ought not to have proceeded on the basis of averments made in the

petition without taking into consideration, the reply filed and without

expressing its prima facie opinion in regard to the allegations. It is only

if, after considering both the pleadings in the petition as well as the

reply, the Court still thinks that the allegations require further

investigation by the CBI, then it may direct so, after recording a prima

facie finding which would be limited for the purpose of directing an

inquiry. 54. A learned Single Judge of this Court in Binod Kumar Kabra vs.

State of West Bengal reported in (2015) 2 C.Cr.LR (Cal) 693 observed

that since the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946 was a

special law, the Superintendent of Police, CBI, is also empowered to

register the First Information Report. This judgment was pointed out by

Mr. Asraf Ali and Mr. Bhattacharya to counter the argument advanced

by the Respondents and the State that without a First Information

Report being registered, no CBI inquiry can be conducted. 55. Taking a conspectus of the decisions cited on this issue I am of

the opinion that not only does this Court have the power under Article

226 of the Constitution to direct that a preliminary inquiry be

conducted, but that the Court can also direct the CBI should conduct it.

Such a power has to be used cautiously and sparingly and only in

exceptional circumstances. Considering the facts in this case and the

involvement of the persons concerned I have no hesitation in directing

the CBI to conduct a preliminary inquiry. The allegations made in the

petition are serious and are of corruption allegedly indulged in by those

who hold high public offices. The persons involved are ministers of the

government of West Bengal, members of parliament or the state

assembly. One of the Respondents is a Superintendent of Police. It is

very difficult to believe that a fair and impartial inquiry or investigation

will be conducted by the State Police against their masters in

government or their own high ranked officer. It is true that

presumptions cannot be drawn unless there is material on record to do

so. At the same time I cannot turn a blind eye to the fact that it would
 be impracticable if not impossible to expect a State Police officer to

conduct an impartial investigation. Moreover it is not possible to accept

the argument advanced on behalf of the State that the Police were not

given sufficient time to conduct an inquiry after the complaint was

submitted. The complaint was filed with the Police on 15th March 2016,

a day after the telecast. Though the petitions were filed on 16th March

2016 the first order was passed by this Court on 18th March 2016. The

Police thus had more than 72 hours to take the necessary action. I am

not convinced that no action was taken because the writ petitions were

served on the Police. I have noticed that when a complaint was filed by

the wife of Respondent No.20, the State Police swung into action with

lightning speed, despite the pendency of this petition. Therefore it is

apparent that had the State Police wanted to take action against the

Respondents they would have done so immediately. They possibly

thought that the complaint was unimportant or they had been told by

their political bosses not to act on any such complaint. In fact on seeing

the telecast the Police could have taken action suo motu without waiting

for a complaint. Delay 56. The learned Counsel for the Respondents have pointed out that

although the so called sting operation was conducted in 2014, it was

televised only in 2016, around the time that the Assembly Elections

were declared in the State of West Bengal. They contended therefore

that there has been a delay in the telecast which would cast a shadow

of doubt on the criminal proceedings which may be launched against
 the Respondents. According to them any delay in lodging an FIR would

detract from the authenticity of the recording. To support this

argument the learned counsel have relied on Sahib Singh vs. State of

Haryana reported in (1997) 7 SCC 231 where the Supreme Court

observed that the FIR had been lodged in that case after an

unreasonable delay which was deliberate and would therefore affect the

prosecution. Reliance has also been placed on the judgment in Manoj

Kumar (supra) where the Supreme Court observed that where there is a

delay in lodging of the FIR, it often results in embellishments which are

creatures of an afterthought. Similarly in the case of Kishan Singh vs.

Gurpal Singh & Ors reported in (2010) 8 SCC 775 the Supreme Court

observed that if there is a delay in filing the FIR, the complainant must

give an explanation for the same. That explanation has to be plausible

in the absence of which the delay may be fatal to the prosecution. 57. These judgments, in my opinion, have no application to the

present cases. There was no delay in filing the complaint after the

telecast. The delay, if any, was perhaps between the actual recording of

the sting operation and the telecast which Mathew Samuel has

explained in his affidavit. The delay has occurred because the magazine

Tehelka, which commissioned him to conduct the sting operation,

refused to publish it as its owner, was a member of the TMC.

Respondent No.10 then published the recording on YouTube. Thus

though the recording has been and continues to be in public domain it

caught the imagination of the public when the recording was telecast on

14th May 2016. 58. In any event the submission that the delay in filing an FIR

would be fatal to the prosecution is a defence which the Respondents

are entitled to raise when the prosecution is launched against them.

The argument is premature and largely a red herring at this stage .

Sting Operations 59. The next prong of attack of the Learned Counsel appearing for

the Respondents is that the credentials of Mathew Samuel need to be

examined before any further steps are taken in the writ petitions. We

have been informed that Ratna Chatterjee, wife of Respondent No. 20,

filed a complaint on 18th June, 2016. The allegation in the complaint is,

"sometimes before the West Bengal Assembly Election, 2016, the accused

persons had entered into a criminal conspiracy and in pursuant thereof

caused fear or alarm to the public and thereby induced to commit an

offence against the public tranquillity and made false statement with

intent to affect the result of the elections (W.B. Assembly Elections, 2016).

Thus accused defamation of reputation of the complainant's husband and

family, thereby committed offence U/S 120B/469/505(1)(b)/171G/500 IPC . During investigation it is learnt that some audio-visual clippings

as alleged were flashed in a website www.naradanews.com and the

particulars of the owner/registrant of the said website is required to be

obtained for the purpose further investigation." This complaint was

registered as an FIR under Section 120B , 469 , 505(1)(b) and 171G and 500 of the IPC on the same day. 60. All the Counsel for the Respondents have submitted that

Mathew Samuel has not obeyed the orders of the Court at all. He has

not disclosed the particulars which this Court had directed and

therefore no credence could be placed on the statements in his affidavit

or on the so called sting operation. They have all argued that Mathew

Samuel is guilty of committing an offence and therefore he should not

be spared. 61. Mr. Arunava Ghosh, the learned Counsel for Respondent No.10

submitted that the analysis of the audio-video by the CFSL has

disclosed that it is untampered and therefore prima facie a cognizable

offence has been committed by the Respondents. He urged that the

Respondents need to explain their presence in the video footage and

their involvement in the illegal activities which have been filmed. To

fortify his submission Mr. Ghosh has placed reliance on Sri Yerneni

Raja Ramchander @ Rajababu vs. State of A.P. & Ors. reported in

(2009) 15 SCC 604, Raja Ram Pal vs. The Hon'ble Speaker, Lok

Sabha & Ors. reported in ( 2007) 3 SCC 184 and Pooran Mal vs.

Director of Inspection (Investigation) of Income-tax, New Delhi &

Ors. reported in AIR 1974 SC 348. 62. In Rajat Prasad vs C.B.I. reported in (2014) 6 SCC 495 the

Supreme Court has spoken about sting operations thus: 63. The Respondents have argued that Mathew Samuel is a yellow

journalist or a blackguard. But that is not an issue which requires

attention in the present petitions. I am only concerned with whether an

inquiry should be ordered with respect to the audio-visuals beamed

across the State and indeed the country, featuring the Respondents

accepting cash for bestowing favours in their official capacities.

Therefore the judgment in Rajat Prasad (supra) does not aid the

Respondents in the present case. 64. After considering the facts and the law, I am convinced that the

petitions are maintainable. The Petitioners do have locus standi to file

the petitions. They are neither chagrined nor frustrated litigants. I do

not find that they have been motivated by personal and political interest

in presenting the petitions. The interest of public at large and the

desire to see that persons responsible for governance have impeccable

integrity and unblemished reputations are the reasons that have

motivated the Petitioners to file the petitions. I do not find that the

petitions are frivolous or have been filed without a factual foundation.

It is true that the Petitioners have not given details of the manner in

which the recordings were collected and telecast on the news channels.
 But that is because the Petitioners played no part in recording the

same. The news telecasts claimed that Respondent No.10,

www.naradanews.com had recorded the sting operation. The Managing

Director of www.naradanews.com, Mathew Samuel, has filed affidavits

disclosing the details about the manner in which he personally recorded

the visuals which were telecast on the news channels. Most of the

Respondents have filed affidavits merely denying the statements in the

petition and taking exception to the CFSL reports. They have

questioned the reliability of the digital audio video recordings. However,

I do not find that any of the Respondents have denied that the recording

had been displayed on the news channels. Besides doubting the

authenticity of the video footage, the Respondents have cast aspersions

on the motives of the Petitioners and Mathew Samuel in recording and

displaying the audio-video footage. There could be myriad reasons

which motivated Mathew Samuel to record the actions of the

Respondents. However that cannot reflect adversely on the footage

which has already been certified by two laboratories to be genuine and

untampered. Apart from this, as mentioned by Mr. Dutta, the learned

counsel for Respondent No. 22, this video footage is still available for

viewing on YouTube. I am surprised that the Respondents have been so

blasé and nonchalant about this. They have not pleaded that they have

taken any steps to have the video footage removed from YouTube. 65. The contention of the Respondents has all along been that they

have not committed any cognizable offence much less any offence under

the Prevention of Money Laundering Act or the Prevention of Corruption
 Act or under any of the provisions of the IPC . Considering the CFSL

reports from Hyderabad as well as Chandigarh, it is apparent that the

video footage is not tampered and is genuine. The Respondents have

not denied being featured in the audio-video footage which was shown

in the news telecast where they were seen accepting money for favours

to be accorded. These circumstances, prima facie lead me to believe

that a cognizable offence has been committed. 66. After gleaning through the records, prima facie, it seems to me

that serious offences have been committed by the Respondents.

Foundational facts are available on which it is necessary that a

preliminary inquiry should be conducted by the CBI to ascertain

whether the Respondent Nos.11 to 22 have been involved in corrupt

practices and have used the high public offices that they occupied, and

continue to hold today, to promise favours to the persons from whom

they had accepted money. I do not therefore have hesitation in

concluding that the Court's extraordinary writ jurisdiction must be

exercised in the present case by directing the CBI to conduct an inquiry. 67. The antecedents of Mathew Samuel may or may not be

blameworthy. However, that by itself will not absolve the Respondents

from their duty to maintain probity in the political arena and in the

public space occupied by them in our democracy. The conduct of

persons holding high public offices must be beyond reproach. I cannot

ignore the fact that the Respondents are all holding high public offices

and are able to wield power, influence and political clout in the State of
 West Bengal. It is in these circumstances that I feel that this is an apt

case where the jurisdiction of the High Court under Article 226 of the

Constitution of India must be exercised by ordering an inquiry by the

CBI into the entire episode. The State Police are at best, unfortunately,

puppets on a string, the end of which is with the Respondents.

Therefore, it is of utmost importance that the preliminary inquiry

should be conducted by a neutral and independent investigating

agency. There is no other investigating agency besides the CBI which is

"independent" and therefore, it is essential that the preliminary inquiry

should be conducted by that agency. It surprises me that the State in

this case, rather than acting independently has supported the

Respondents with all the vehemence at its command. Judges are

expected to act as "sentinels on qui vive" and safeguard the rule of law,

and I would be failing in my duty if I hesitate to do so. 68. I direct the CBI to conduct a preliminary inquiry without any

delay and in execution thereof, to take custody of the devices and the

CFSL reports which are maintained by the Special Committee in a bank

locker, within 24 hours. The inquiry shall be concluded within 72 hours

thereafter. Depending on the result of the inquiry, the CBI shall

forthwith register an FIR, in respect of the alleged crimes and proceed to

investigate the same, in accordance with law. The CBI must act

promptly since persons with doubtful integrity and who commit crimes

affecting the society at large, must be brought to book swiftly. 69. I direct the State to initiate disciplinary proceedings against

Respondent No.22 within a week from today and to consider suspending

him, in consonance with the service rules governing his employment as

a Superintendent of Police. 70. The petitions are accordingly allowed. The applications being

CAN 11807 of 2016 and CAN 114 of 2017 filed in connection with

W.P.No.5243(W) of 2016 and CAN 10500 of 2016 filed in connection

with W.P. No.5224(W) of 2016 have become infructuous and the same

are dismissed accordingly. (Nishita Mhatre, ACJ.)

Tapabrata Chakraborty, J. 71. I have gone through the well-reasoned judgment of Her Ladyship

and I entirely agree with the same. Expressing my concurrence with the

reasoning given in the said judgment , I may add a few words, mainly by

way of emphasis. 72. The common thread of arguments advanced on behalf of the State

authorities and the private Respondents is that on the basis of the
 pleadings on record no prima facie opinion can be formed as to whether

any cognizable offence has been committed and that a complete

examination and appreciation of facts and materials on record does not

lead to any conclusion to that effect and as such the writ petitions are

not maintainable. 73. It is not a case that even if taken at face value and correct in their

entirety, the allegations do not disclose any cognizable offence. In fact

upon a forensic examination no tampering/editing has been found in

the video uploaded in the print media. The exhibits analysed contain

audio conversation of about 428 minutes (approximately 7 hours). The

said transcript of disputed conversation is an identification data which

in course of inquiry can be compared with the voice sample of the

accused persons. Collection of such voice sample of inculpatory

material for spectrographic examination is neither unreasonable nor

unfair and it does not constitute violation of any fundamental right. The

sordid facts in the instant case reveal that the investigating agency has

been paralyzed due to the involvement of superior police officer and

politician in the alleged incident. 74. Corruption is a reprehensible crime in a society and it is an

assault on the faith of the common people upon officers and Ministers

and people's representatives. It defiles and degrades and shakes the

confidence of the people at large upon the Government. It causes

psychological harm to the society at large leaving upon it indelible

marks. 75. Administering criminal justice is a two-pronged process, where

guarding the ensured rights of the accused under Constitution is as

imperative as ensuring justice to the victim. It is definitely a daunting

task but equally a compelling responsibility vested on the Court of law

to protect and shield the rights of both. Thus, a just balance between

the fundamental rights of the accused guaranteed under the

Constitution and the expansive role of the authorities to investigate a

cognizable offence has to be struck by Court. The word "cognizance"

has a very wide connotation and not merely confined to the stage of

taking cognizance of the offence. It has two stages, namely, pre-

cognizance stage and post-cognizance stage. Such stages are not

impinged by any fetters. A discrete verification is one of the essentials of

criminal justice system and an integral facet of rule of law. The

expression "Cognizance" has not been defined in the Code. It has no

esoteric or mystic significance in criminal law. It merely means

"become aware of". 76. Article 226 of the Constitution of India is couched in wide

language so that the authority of the Writ Court is not confined only to

issue prerogative writs. Such wide language is used to enable the Writ

Court "to reach injustice wherever it is found". The jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution is expansive and extraordinary and the

same does not stand fettered by the rules of Criminal Procedure. 77. The expression public interest litigation means a legal action

which is initiated before the Court of law for the purpose of enforcement
 of general interest of public. The technical misdescriptions and

deficiencies in drafting pleadings and setting out of the cause title

cannot be a secret weapon to non-suit a party. Where foul play is

absent and fairness is not faulted latitude is a grace of processual

justice. 78. Applying such proposition of law to the facts of the case which

involves allegations of bribery and corruption, scrutiny of records and

interrogation of persons would be necessary and such direction for

preliminary enquiry cannot prejudice and/or affect any fundamental

right of the persons accused. 79. Fair investigation is a fundamental right of every individual.

Criminal justice system is based on bulwark of a fair and impartial

investigation at the behest of the investigating agency. In the event,

there is an infraction of such basic duty by the State it results in

complete eclipse of rule of law. Records reveal that the police authorities

registered the complaint lodged by the wife of the Respondent no.20 as

FIR No.248 on the very day the complaint was lodged. On the basis of

such complaint Mathew was issued notice under section 41A of the

Code and thereafter the Court had to intervene to stop such

investigation. Such promptness was surprisingly absent in respect of

the complaint lodged by the Petitioners. Such action of the authorities

coupled with the gravity of the offences alleged and considering the

involvement of very influential persons including the Ministers and

State police authorities has given rise to a surcharged atmosphere,
 indicating some proof of inability of holding fair and impartial

investigation by the State police authorities and we cannot shut our

eyes to such circumstances and direct the State police authorities to

investigate. 80. If history and realities of life provide any guide it would be

axiomatic to say that human ingenuity has no limits in finding out the

ways of avoiding and circumventing the provisions of law much more in

cases where confidence of the people at large rests upon the

government. The society at large has a stake in proper investigation into

the alleged offences which involves Ministers and high placed

government officials. The allegations in the instant case are neither

skirmishes nor bald, but speak of overt acts indicating complicity

among the Members of Parliament, Ministers and high placed

government officials. 81. With these observations in elucidation of the conclusion arrived at

by Her Ladyship, I agree with the directions issued. (Tapabrata Chakraborty, J.)

Later: