The appeal by the assessee is directed against the order passed

by the learned Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals)-2, Chennai dated

31.05.2017 in ITA No.200/CIT(A)-2/2016-17 for the assessment year

2014-15 passed U/s.250(6) r.w.s. 143(3) of the Act. 2. The assessee has raised several grounds in his appeal, however the

crux of the issue is that the Ld.CIT(A) has erred in confirming the order

of the Ld.AO who had rejected the claim of exemption U/s.10(38) of the 2 ITA No.1786/CHNY/2017 Act on the long term capital gains earned by the assessee from the sale

of shares of M/s. Risa International Ltd.. 3. The brief facts of the case are that the assessee is an individual

engaged in the business of jewelry and also partner in M/s. Diamond

Creations, filed his return of income for the assessment year 2014-15

electronically on 08.11.2014 admitting total income of Rs.2,69,06,500/-.

Thereafter the case was selected for scrutiny under CASS and notice

U/s.143(2) of the Act was issued and served on the assessee on

29.08.2015. During the course of scrutiny assessment it was noticed by

the Ld.AO that the assessee had made huge gains from trading in

shares of M/s. Risa International Ltd. Further based on market

information, survey was conducted at the business premises of the

assessee on 19.07.2016 and statements were also recorded. In the

course of scrutiny assessment proceedings it was revealed that the

substantial increase in the capital of the assessee was due to the capital

gain earned by the assessee which was claimed as exempt from tax

U/s.10(38) of the Act. It was further observed that the assessee had

acquired 7,50,000 shares of M/s. Risa International Ltd., by way of

preferential allotment in the month of August 2012 for a consideration of

Rs.75,00,000 at Rs.10 per share. These shares were initially in paper

form and subsequently converted in to de-materialized form. Thereafter 3 ITA No.1786/CHNY/2017 the assessee sold the shares during the relevant assessment year

earning profit of Rs.38,05,28,491/- and claimed exemption U/s.10(38) of

the Act. The Ld.AO after examining the facts of the case and based on

the information gathered from the survey made the following

observations:- The inference drawn by the Assessing Officer from the Board's

 Instruction No.17 dated 26/11/2008 is in order. The shares of M/s.

 Risa International Ltd., were held by the appellant as AFS

 (Available For Sale) and therefore, the action of the Assessing

 Officer to tax it alternatively u/s.28 is appropriate.

4.1 Thereafter the Ld.CIT(A) confirmed the order of Ld.AO by observing

as under:- 5. The Ld.AR submitted before us that the assessee had invested in the

shares of M/s. Risa International Ltd., after gaining authentic information

through Shri Abhinandan Jain that the share price is bound to shoot up

which is generally normal in share market. Therefore there is no illegality

attached to the transaction by making such investment. There is also no 13 ITA No.1786/CHNY/2017 bar on the assessee as to how he should exploit gain from his

investment that is either by way of sale of the shares or by earning

dividend income. He further submitted that the entire shares acquired

was based on the order of the Hon'ble High Court of Bombay dated

29.06.2012 in CP No.288/2012 and therefore the allegation of the

Department that the assessee got shares by preferential allotment does

not lead any negative inference. Further the shares were sold in the

open share market through regulated stock exchange and the sale

proceeds were realized through proper banking channel. He further

argued stating that the assessee (black money holder) approached

operators to convert black money into white money is totally baseless

because there is no evidence to establish the same other than the mere

statements of few individuals against the share of M/s. Risa International

Ltd., and not the assessee. Moreover no evidence was produced by the

Revenue to show that the assessee had advanced cash to the buyers of

the shares from him. Further no evidence was produced by the Revenue

to establish that the share prices were hiked. The Ld.AR further

submitted stating that the shares of M/s. Risa International Ltd., was

traded regularly in the stock market till date and the appropriate

Government Regulatory Authorities has not pointed out any irregularities

in those shares. He further argued stating that the purchasers of the

shares from the assessee were not probed by the Revenue in order to 14 ITA No.1786/CHNY/2017 prove that they were men of meager means. All those individuals had

proper bank accounts and therefore identifying those individuals was

possible. However the Ld.Revenue Authorities without analyzing the

entire issue has presumed that the assessee had infused his

unexplained income in the guise of gain arising out of trading in shares.

Further the Department had relied only on the SEBI report mentioned in

page 6 of the assessment order however the same was not furnished to

the assessee. In fact the report submitted by the SEBI was only an

interim freeze order. Thereafter the order of suspension passed by SEBI

dated 28.03.2016 was set aside by the Securities Appellate Tribunal in

Appeal No.64 of 2016 vide order dated 30.03.2016. The Ld.AR further

submitted that the records and statements of the alleged operators had

only pointed out the trading activity of M/s. Shallot group of Companies

with respect to the shares held by Ranka & family and there was no

reference to the assessee Shri Praveen Kumar. The assessee had also

furnished news articles and other particulars about M/s. Risa

International Ltd's., expansion which increase the optimism in the

purchase of the shares of the company (page 37 - volume 3 of the PB).

Therefore the Ld.AR pleaded that the allegations made by the

Department is only based on presumptions and assumptions and

therefore cannot be sustained in law. Hence it was requested the

addition made by the Revenue Authorities may be deleted. Further the 15 ITA No.1786/CHNY/2017 Ld.AR submitted that though the Revenue had vehemently discussed

about the tainted shares of M/s. Risa International Pvt. Ltd., and the

activities of the various other intermediaries there is no reference of the

assessee in the involvement in the sham transaction. Therefore adverse

inference cannot be made in the case of the assessee. 6. The Ld.DR on the other hand vehemently argued in support of the

orders of the Ld.Revenue Authorities reiterating their findings, views etc.,

stated in their respective orders. The Ld.DR also placed reliance in the

various statements recorded from individuals which forms part of the

paper book submitted by the Revenue and pleaded that Orders of the

Ld.Revenue Authorities may be upheld. 7. We have heard the rival submissions and carefully perused the

materials before us. From the facts of the case, the allegations of the Ld.

AO can be broadly summarized and analyzed as under:- Ltd., Kolkatta, Shri Prasanta Bose only leads to a suspicion that the

 shares of M/s. Risa International Ltd., might be penny stock. In the

 confession statement (Annexure 'C' of assessment order), Shri

 Prasanta Bose had stated that his company M/s. Shallot Vincom

 Pvt. Ltd., had invested in the shares of M/s. Risa International Ltd.,

 amounting to Rs.6,06,01,000/- from the funds received from entry

 operators viz., Mr. Vijay Kedia, Mr. Ashish Agarwal, Mr.N.M. Lohia,

 Mr.Pankaj Agarwal and Mr.Sachin Badani. He had also stated that

 the various companies in which he was director, was audited by

 Shri Sanjay Khandalwal & Co., Chartered Accountants, whom he

 does not know directly and the same was organized by Shri Vinod

 Gupta. He has also stated that the brokers with whom he had dealt

 with for purchase and sale of the penny stock shares were Sunil Kr.

 Kayan & Co., Sanjay Bansan, Yashwi Securities Pvt. Ltd., Motilal 17 ITA No.1786/CHNY/2017 Oswal Securities Pvt. Ltd., and Indianfoline. He has also stated that

he do not know the beneficiaries of the purchasers because he had

acted on the instructions of the agents of the entry operators,

brokers, etc.. From para No.16 of the statement, it is observed that

in the balance sheet of M/s. Shallot Vincom Pvt. Ltd., as on

31.03.2014 there was no stock with respect to the share of M/s.

Risa International Ltd. Further Shri Prasanta Bose has made

adverse remarks about certain chartered accountants who had

organized merchant bankers and other participants having

adequate knowledge about the requirements of SEBI/ Stock

Exchanges and they had got the paper company listed. Thus from

the statement of Shri Prasanta Bose dated 02.12.2016, it appears

that various persons are involved in the transactions. However the

Revenue has not made any investigation or brought the same to

our notice to draw adverse inference against the assessee.

Therefore the observations made by the Ld.AO only leads to an

element of suspicion and not conclusive evidence. Moreover it is

evident that the assessment order was passed by the Ld.AO

hurriedly on 27.12.2016 based on the statements obtained from

Shri Prasanta Bose on 02/12/16 ie., within a span of three weeks.

In this situation we wonder as to how the assessment can stand

only on the basis of statement made by Shri Prasanta Bose. 18 ITA No.1786/CHNY/2017 (v) The observation of the Ld.AO regarding the trading activity of

 shares by assessee was in the nature of trading in penny stock

 companies is not based on conclusive evidence but only based on

 the statements of certain individuals like Shri Prasanta Bose.

 Though the strong needle of suspicion ascends, it is obvious that

 assessment cannot be made based on mere surmises and

 conjectures when it adversely affects any individual. (vi) We do not understand as to what adverse inference can be drawn

 from the observation of the Ld.AO that the entire contract note of

 M/s. Lodha Securities Ltd., related only to the sale of shares of M/s.

 Risa International Ltd. (vii) Mr. Prasanta Bose had referred to one person name Shri Hemat

 Goelka who had induced and motivated him to form companies in

 order to provide accommodation of bogus profit to the beneficiaries

 in exchange of commission however the Ld.AO has not summoned

 Mr. Hemat Goelka and examined him in order to strengthen the

 statement of Mr. Prasanta Bose or brought to our notice regarding

 any such evidence. (viii) With respect to the observation of the Ld.AO that the shares of

 M/s. Risa International Ltd., hit lower circuit on 28.03.2016 and

 thereafter BSE decided to suspend the trading operation has been

 explained by the assessee that such suspension order was set 19 ITA No.1786/CHNY/2017 aside by the Securities Appellate Tribunal in appeal No.64 of 2016

 vide order dated 30.03.2016. This fact is neither disputed by the

 Revenue before us nor any documentary evidence produced

 before us on that regard. Therefore we fail to understand as to

 what adverse inference we can draw from the same. (ix) Only based on the fact that the share price of M/s. Risa

 International Ltd., allotted through preferential allotment rose to

 Rs.177.9 per share during March 2015 and thereafter shrunk to

 Rs.0.95 on 28.03.2016, presumption cannot be made that the

 transactions are fabricated, though it can only lead to suspicion. (x) Similarly adverse inference cannot be drawn only on the fact that

 share prices shot up in a short span of time from Rs.0.10 paise per

 share to Rs.5.45 per share during the financial year 2012-13. (xi) The assessee has also explained its position with respect to

 suspension of shares of M/s. Risa International Ltd., in the BSE

 which the Revenue has not confronted before us. (xii) Even if the assessee has made investment of Rs.75 lakhs in

 worthless shares of M/s. Risa International Ltd., merely based on

 presumptions it cannot be held that the assessee had made such

 investments to garner tax free profits. (xiii) The fluctuation of the price of the shares alone will not lead to the

 conclusion that the transactions are not genuine. (xiv) The report of the BSE with the help of SEBI is neither furnished to

 the assessee by the Revenue nor produced before us; therefore

 we cannot rely on the same. (xv) Similarly the investigation report of 'money-life' is also not produced

 before us by the Revenue. Hence we cannot place reliance on the

 same. (xvi) The manner in which the share prices were pumped and dumped

 and the individuals / persons who dealt in such operations along

 with the modus operandi are not vividly presented before us other

 than statements of few individuals. Therefore we cannot draw any

 adverse inference from the same. (xvii) In the statement recorded from Shi Abhinandan Jain, chartered

 accountant who is one of the directors in M/s. Risa International

 Ltd., it is evident that the prices of the shares of M/s. Risa

 International Ltd., was inflated by Mr. Naresh Jain in connivance

 with other operators. However no investigation is made on that

 regard. Further it is evident that preferential allotment of shares in

 M/s. Risa International Ltd., was made after the approval of the

 scheme by the Hon'ble Mumbai High Court. Further it is apparent

 that the entire process was within the ambit of legal parameter

 because no adverse action is initiated against Shri Abhinandan

 Jain and if any penal action is taken against him the same is not 21 ITA No.1786/CHNY/2017 brought to our notice. Considering these facts even though it is

 presumed that there is an artificial spiking of shares of M/s. Risa

 International Ltd., there is no evidence to establish that the

 assessee had infused his unaccounted income in the garb of gain

 arising from the sale of the shares of M/s. Risa International Ltd.

(xviii) The Ld.AO has observed that the buyers of the shares did not

 respond to the notice issued U/s.131 of the Act. It is an admitted

 fact that the buyers of the shares of M/s. Risa International Ltd.,

 from the assessee through stock exchange are unknown to the

 assessee. In this situation, we do not understand as to how the

 assessee can be penalized if those persons do not respond to the

 notice issued by the Revenue U/s.131 of the Act. The Revenue

 was at liberty to locate those persons because their identity was

 known and well within reach. (xix) The Ld.AO has further observed that the buyers of the shares of

 M/s. Risa International Ltd., did not accumulate funds in their

 accounts which was utilized for purchase of shares from the

 assessee. However the Ld.AO has not examined as to from where

 those individuals acquired funds and in what manner. Further the

 Ld.AO has not brought on record as to what are the KYC norms

 violated by the banks with respect to those individuals. 22 ITA No.1786/CHNY/2017 (xx) The Ld.AO has observed that the share prices of M/s. Risa

 International Ltd., was purchased by the assessee at Rs.0.10 per

 share and subsequently sold at Rs.600 per share and the increase

 in the price of the share was without any scientific basis, therefore

 he was of the view that the assessee had book profit under the

 guise of sale of share for deriving benefit U/s.10(38) of the Act.

 While arriving at such conclusion it is apparent that the Ld.AO has

 only relied on the statements of few individuals and has not made a

 thorough investigation on the entire modus operandi as to establish

 in what manner the shares were manipulated to reach at such high

 price. (xxi) The Ld.AO has observed that the investor who purchased shares

 of M/s. Risa International Ltd., from the assessee did not possess

 resources to invest is not substantiated with evidence before us. 8. Further the findings of the Ld. CIT(A) can be broadly summarized

and analyzed as under:- 9. On perusing the paper book filed by the Revenue at page No.134,

196, 234 in the assessment order of M/s. Shallot Vyapaar Pvt. Ltd., M/s.

Shallot Tie-up Pvt. Ltd., and M/s. Shallot Vincom Pvt. Ltd., 2% of the total

transaction of penny stock with respect to trading of shares of M/s. Risa

International Pvt. Ltd., amounting to Rs.22,97,865/-, Rs.49,80,543/- and

Rs.19,43,215/- aggregating to Rs.92,21,623/- is treated as the

undisclosed income in the hands of the respective assessees being the

commission earned in the transaction. However from the assessment

order of Mr. Sohanraj Praveen Kumar it is apparent that he has sold

share of M/s. Risa International Pvt. Ltd., for Rs.38,80,28,490/-. That

shows that out of Rs.92,21,623/-, Rs.77,60,057/- (Rs.38,80,28,490 x

2/100) pertains to trading of shares by the assessee. Therefore it

appears that almost the entire trading of shares of M/s. Risa International

Pvt. Ltd., was that of the shares of M/s. Risa International Pvt. Ltd., held

by the assessee. However the details of the shares of M/s. Risa

International Pvt. Ltd., traded by other individuals are not brought on

record. Further, in the statement of Shri Abhinandan Jain in page No.244

of the paper book of the Revenue it is mentioned that "consent letter was

obtained from the prospective shareholders" which show that there were

other individuals who were also allotted preferential shares. It is also

evident from the statement at page No.243 of the paper book of the 26 ITA No.1786/CHNY/2017 Revenue that total preferential shares allotted was 3,14,00,000 equity

shares at a price of Rs.10 per share with respect to 49 entities against

which the assessee was allotted only 75,00,000 shares. What is the

status of the rest of the shareholders is not on record before us. It is

pertinent to mention that the other individuals, who dealt with the shares

of M/s. Risa International Pvt. Ltd., will also stand in the same footing

and the details of those cases are not before us. Further the Ld.AO has

predominantly relied on the statement of Shri Abhinandan Suresh Jain

dated 20.10.2016, Shri Naresh Manikchand Jain dated 20.10.2016, Shri

Hasmukh Bhai Manilal Shah dated 20.10.2016 and few others and letter

of Shri Rajeshkumar Dubey dated 26.11.2016 while concluding his

assessment order on 27.12.2016. There were no further investigations

made on the other individuals who are large in number while arriving at

such conclusion. It is pertinent to mention that the persons from whom

the Revenue has obtained statements are also assessed to tax on the

admitted commission income of 2% of the turnover and if those individual

had not admitted there was a threat of being taxed multifold. Hence

statement made by the intermediaries does not have evidential value

unless corroborated with other material evidence. There is also no

finding as to how the assessee would have earned so much of

undisclosed income which he has brought back as gain from sale of

shares and from what source. 9.1 Further from the facts of the case, it is evident that the entire

transactions are through recognized stock exchange and all the financial

transactions are made through banking channels and the same is not in

dispute. The Ld.AR had also affirmed that though SEBI had debarred the

trading of shares of M/s. Risa International Pvt. Ltd., for a short-while due

to technical reasons, the bar was lifted subsequently and the shares are

being traded in the recognized stock exchange till date. This fact is also

not disputed by the Ld.DR either. The finding of the Ld.AO that the

company M/s. Risa International Pvt. Ltd., did not have any credentials

worthy of mentioning only leads to a suspicion that the transactions are

bogus. But it should be kept in mind that in commercial scenario various

economic factors affect the price of shares which may not be physically

visible. Therefore one cannot arrive at a conclusion only based on such

suspicion. There are occasions where blue chip companies also

manipulate the price of shares for various reasons which may be illegal

but to initiate penal action there should be concrete finding with evidence

on such illegal activities. Predominantly in the case of the assessee

though various aspects points out that there may be some superfluous

activities conducted by various persons in order to influence the price of

shares of M/s. Risa International Pvt. Ltd., no concrete evidence is

brought out to establish any illegality with respect to the transitions of the 28 ITA No.1786/CHNY/2017 assessee in particular. On query, the Ld.DR informed us that there is no

criminal case, investigations by enforcement directorate or by CBI

pending as on date with respect to the assessee or M/s. Risa

International Pvt. Ltd. Moreover no irregularities are brought out by SEBI

or any recognized stock exchange with respect to the trading in shares of

M/s. Risa International Pvt. Ltd., in the case of the assessee in particular

as affirmed by the Ld.AR as well as the Ld.DR before us. Further there is

no finding by the Department as to how the assessee might have

possessed/acquired such huge black money for conversion. The bank

account trial with respect to the source of the amount invested by the so

called dubious purchasers of shares from the assessee through stock

exchange has not been thoroughly investigated by the Revenue to

establish that those buyers are not genuine and they did not have

sufficient source to invest in the shares of M/s. Risa International Pvt.

Ltd., purchased from the assessee. Only a passing remark is made by

the Revenue on that regard that the buyers of the shares from the

assessee were men of meager means but no evidence is brought on

record. In fact the need for such finding was dispensed with by the

Revenue by merely stating that the funds were routed through layering of

accounts and flouting of rules by the bankers not following KYC norms.

Though the Ld.AO has explained how the penny stock works, he has not

made any finding with corroborative evidence to establish that the 29 ITA No.1786/CHNY/2017 assessee's case falls under dealing with penny stock. The Ld.AO had

also observed in his order that the assessee had failed to obtain

financials and bank accounts of the buyers of the shares from the

assessee to prove that they are credit worthy. We do not understand as

to how the assessee will be able to get such particulars from strangers

who had purchased shares of the assessee through recognized stock

exchange. In fact the Revenue had all the opportunity to summon them

and obtain the requisite particulars which they had grossly fails to

exercise. The Ld.AO has also relied on the message propagated by

"money life" but he has not made a finding as to how it is applicable in

the case of the assessee. The Ld.AO has also pointed out about the

bank accounts being opened by various individuals without following

KYC norms. However the Ld.AO has not examined those individuals in

order to establish his adverse finding on the assessee. The reference

made by the Ld.AO with respect to asset classification by banking

institutions viz., "available for sale (AFS)" and the relevant CBDT Circular

No.17 dated 26.11.2008 is not applicable to the case of the assessee

because the assessee is not a banking institution. Moreover the Ld.AO

has not made any finding with respect to the modus operandi as to how

such manipulations were made possible. He has only made a

presumption that the transactions are dubious. It is pertinent to mention

that the assessee would not be able to explain the entire activities of M/s. 30 ITA No.1786/CHNY/2017 Risa International Pvt. Ltd., or gather internal documents/information

because M/s. Risa International Pvt. Ltd., is a third party as far as the

assessee is concerned and he has no control over the company. Further

he himself confessed that he indulged in such trading activity based on

tips received from reliable sources. Though it appears that such quantum

of raise and fall in the price of shares is not normally possible as in the

case of M/s. Risa International Pvt. Ltd., it is essential to bring out some

evidence to establish that there is some illegality in the transaction.

Conclusions cannot be made merely on the basis of conjectures and

surmises. The Ld.AO's grievance that the assessee had failed to obtain

financials and bank accounts of the buyers of shares to prove they are

credit-worthy is not appreciable, because it is obvious that the assessee

cannot get such documents from unknown individuals who have

purchased shares through recognized stock exchange. The observation

of the Ld.AO that the assessee had purchased the shares only to obtain

profit from sale of those shares and had no intention for earning dividend

income also does not seem to be appropriate because any investor is at

liberty to exploit gain from dealing with their investment in the best

possible manner. In the case of the assessee though there is a strong

needle of suspicion arising due to the unnatural fluctuation of the price of

the shares of M/s. Risa International Pvt. Ltd., no clear cut evidence is

brought forth by the Revenue in order to nail the assessee for penal 31 ITA No.1786/CHNY/2017 consequence. In these circumstances we do not find any merit in the

Order of Ld.AO for making addition in the hands of the assessee U/s.68

of the Act with respect to the Long Term Capital Gain earned by him

from the sale of shares of M/s. Risa International Pvt. Ltd., or treating

the Long Term Capital Gain earned by the assessee as income from

business or denying the benefit of Section 10(38) of the Act, and as well

as with the Order of the Ld.CIT(A) who had sustained the addition made

by the Ld.AO by agreeing with his view. 9.2 Further on examining the decisions relied by the Ld. Revenue

Authorities we do not find much strength in the same. They are briefly

discussed herein below for reference:- b) The Ld.AO has heavily relied in the decision of the Mumbai

 Benches of the Tribunal in the case ITO vs. Shamim Bharwani

 reported in 69 Taxman.com 65 and has extracted the entire order.

 However it is pertinent to mention that in that case the shares were

 purchased off the market which was not reported in the recognized

 stock exchange. The purchase was through back dated contract

 note and paid by cash. The shares belong to penny stock company

 and there were no real buyers. The operators were acting in

 benami names or name lenders. The shares traded were of paper

 companies. The purchases were in physical form, and demated

 subsequently long after the purchase date, back dated close to the

 date of sale. From the above, it is evident that facts are not

 identical to case of the assessee. In the case of the assessee

 shares are allotted on preferential basis after obtaining permission

 from the Hon'ble High Court and subsequently traded through

 regulated stock exchanges. Further financial transactions were

 made through banking channels. The identity of the persons who

 traded in those shares are also known. Therefore the case relied

 by the Revenue is not applicable to the case of the assessee. c) The decision of the Hon'ble Apex Court relied by the Revenue in

 the case CIT vs. Durga Prasad More reported in 82 ITR 540 neither 33 ITA No.1786/CHNY/2017 deal with share market transactions or identical to the facts in the

 case of the assessee. d) Further the decision in the case CIT vs. Mohanakala by the Hon'ble

 Apex Court reported in 291 ITR 278 is not applicable to the case of

 the assessee because in that case the issue was with respect to

 addition made under the head cash credit U/s. 68 of the Act

 towards foreign gifts received from one common donor and the

 evidence indicated that the donor was to receive suitable

 compensation from the assessee though the money came by way

 of bank cheques and was paid through the process of banking

 transactions which was by itself of no consequence. But in the case

 of the assessee before us the issue is with respect to allotment of

 shares by the order of the Hon'ble High Court and sale of shares

 through regulated market such as stock exchange and the watch

 full eye of SEBI. e) In the case CIT vs. Krishnaveni Ammal reported in 158 ITR 826,

 the Hon'ble Jurisdictional Madras High Court held that when there

 was information to effect that Multani Bankers had only indulging in

 hawala transactions by merely lending their names, the credit

 entries in the name of the various Multani Bankers appearing in the

 books of the assessee did not represent genuine transaction

 because though the assessee had stated that crossed checks are 34 ITA No.1786/CHNY/2017 available they were not produced before the Revenue. In the case

 of the assessee the issue is totally different. f) In the case Somnath Maini vs. CIT reported in 306 ITR 414, the

 Hon'ble High Court of Punjab & Haryana had held that

 "The burden of proving that income is subject to tax is on the
 Revenue but on the facts, to show that the transaction is genuine, the
 burden is primarily on the assessee. The Assessing Officer is to apply
 the test of human probabilities for deciding the genuineness or
 otherwise of a particular transaction. Mere leading of evidence that
 the transaction was genuine, cannot be conclusive. Such evidence is
 required to be assessed by the Assessing Officer in a reasonable way.
 The genuineness of the transaction can be rejected even if the
 assessee leads evidence which is not trustworthy, even if the
 Department does not lead any evidence on such an issue."

However in the case of the assessee the genuineness of the company

M/s. Risa International Pvt. Ltd., which is a third party and not under the

control of the assessee and whose shares are allotted after obtaining

permission from the Hon'ble High Court and thereafter sold is the issue.

Moreover the shares are traded through recognized stock exchange in

the open market to unknown and unconnected persons. Therefore the

ratio laid down by the Hon'ble High Court would not be strictly applicable

in the case of the assessee. 9.3 The Ld.AR has relied in the following decisions which apparently

support the case of the assessee:- In all the above mentioned cases, it has been uniformly held that

when the transactions are routed through banking channels and the

identity of the seller and the purchasers are established and when the

transactions are covered through contract notes, demat accounts which

shows transfer in and out of shares then there is no necessity to doubt

the genuineness of the transactions. 9.4 From the above it is apparent that the decisions relied by the Ld.

Revenue Authorities will not be strictly applicable to the case of the

assessee and the decisions cited by the Ld.AR supports the claim of the

assessee. 9.5 We do understand the genuine anxiety of the Revenue to tax the

assessee due to the various unnatural happening of events, but as a

Judicial body our hands are tied due to the lack of material evidence

against the activities of the assessee and we cannot step into the shoes

of the Revenue by making further investigations and enquiries to tie up

the loose ends left out by the Revenue. From the materials produced

before us there is nothing on record to establish that the transactions of

purchase and sale of shares made by the assessee are dubious other

than the fact that the share prices of M/s. Risa International Pvt Ltd., rose

substantially without sound backing and the statements of few persons

such as Shri Abhinandan Suresh Jain, Shri Naresh Manikchand Jain,

Shri Prasanta Bose, Shri Bhupesh Rathode, Shri Hasmukh Bhai Manilal

Shah, Shri Rajeshkumar Dubey and certain other individuals. At the

same time it should be kept in mind that stock prices may raise due to

certain hidden factors which may be not known to the public at large

even with respect to blue chip companies. Further even if share prices

are manipulated some evidence has to be gathered as to whether

assessee's unaccounted money is brought in or public money is

swapped. Hence conclusion cannot be bluntly made on the basis of

surmises and conjectures in the case of any assessee when certain

other material factors are in favour of the assessee. It appears that the 37 ITA No.1786/CHNY/2017 Revenue had issued summons to 44 individuals to whom the assessee

had sold shares of M/s. Risa International Pvt Ltd., (Revenue's PB page

285-287) through stock exchange, however there is no finding about the

outcome of those summons placed before us. Therefore no negative

inference can be drawn against the assessee. Moreover assessee had

sold his share of M/s. Risa International Ltd during the month of

September 2013 at an average price of Rs.515/-per share. SEBI had

suspended the trading on 31/03/2016 much later after the transitions

made by the assessee. Further share price rose to as high as Rs.1425/-

per share and remained near about Rs.500/- per share while as the

assesse had sold his shares at an average price of Rs.515/-. (As

gathered from the Revenue's finding in Revenue's PB page 6). In these

circumstance we wonder as to what adverse finding can be drawn on the

assessee when there is no adverse findings in the transitions made by

the assessee in particular with cogent evidence other that assumptions

and presumptions. 9.6 The Hon'ble Punjab & Haryana High Court in the case CIT vs.

Anupam Kapoor reported in 299 ITR 179 in a somewhat similar situation

has categorically stated that no presumption could be drawn by the

Assessing Officer merely on surmises and conjectures. The gist of the

decision and case is extracted herein below for reference:- 38 ITA No.1786/CHNY/2017 9.7 In the case Omar Salay Mohamed Sait vs. CIT reported in 37 ITR

151, the Hon'ble Apex Court categorically held that

 "on no account whatever should the Tribunal base its findings on
 suspicions, conjectures or surmises: nor should it act on no evidence
 at all or on improper rejection of material and relevant evidence or
 partly on evidence and partly on suspicions, conjectures or surmises
 and if it does anything of the sort, its findings even though on
 questions of fact will be liable to be set aside by the court." 9.8 In the case Umacharan Shaw & Brothers vs. CIT reported in 37

ITR 271, the Hon'ble Apex Court held that where conclusion arrived at

was due to suspicion which could not take the place of proof but based

on many surmises and conjectures reliance cannot be placed. 9.9 Similar ratio was laid down by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case Lalchand Bhagat Ambica Ram vs. CIT reported in 37 ITR 288. 9.10 In the case CIT vs. Carbo Industrial Holdings Ltd. , reported in

224 ITR 422, the Hon'ble Calcutta High Court has held that when

purchase and sale of shares are effected through share brokers, their

particulars are furnished and the payment is made by account payee

cheque the transaction cannot be doubted just because the brokers fail

to appear before the Revenue even after issue of summons. Similar view 40 ITA No.1786/CHNY/2017 was upheld by the Hon'ble Calcutta High Court in the case CIT vs.

Emerald Commercial Ltd. & another reported in 250 ITR 539. 9.11 In the case CIT vs. Prem Pal Gandhi , the Hon'ble Punjab &

Haryana High Court held vide its recent order dated 18.01.2018 has held

that:- 9.12 Based on the above referred cases decided by the higher

judiciary and discussions we hereby direct the Ld.AO to delete the

addition made by invoking Section 68 of the Act and also to grant

deduction U/s.10(38) of the Act by treating the gain arising out of the sale

of shares as Long Term Capital Gain. Last but not the least, it is

pertinent to mention about the argument advanced by the Ld.AR that

though the Revenue had vehemently discussed about the tainted shares

of M/s. Risa International Pvt. Ltd., and the activities of the various other

intermediaries there is no reference about the assessee's involvement in

particular in any sham transaction, could not be controverted by the

Ld.DR with cogent materials. 9.13 We also make it clear that we have arrived at this decision in the

case of the assessee alone based on the materials and facts presented

before us and therefore it does not have any binding precedent value in

similar other cases. We also make it clear that we have not arrived at

any conclusion with respect to the standing/activities etc., of M/s. Risa

International Pvt. Ltd., because we do not have sufficient materials to

comment on the same. 10. In the result the appeal of the assessee is allowed. Order pronounced on the 14th March, 2018 at Chennai.