J U D G M E N T
 THOMAS. J. Leave granted. This is	an appeal by	the State challenging	 the
acouittal of two accused Manpal Singh (A-1) and his father-
in-law Raghubir	 Singh (A-2), in a murder case. During the
pendency of the special leave petition Manpal Singh died and
hence the petition against him stood	abated. So we heard
counsel for the State of U.P. and counsel for Raghubir Singh
(A-2) on the merits of the appeal. The case involved kidnapping and murder of a minor boy
(Ashok). The victim Ashok was 6 years old when he	 was
murdered. He was none	other than the youngest brother of
accused Manpal	Singh. He and	his father-in-law Raghubir
Singh were alleged to	have kidnapped the lad and throttled
him to	death and the dead body was dumbed in a bit in a
kachha room wherein a bumping set was noused. Sessions Judge
convicted both	the accused of offences under Sections 364
and 302	 read with Section 34 of the IPC and sentenced them
each to rigorous imprisonment for	 five	 years	 and
imprisonment for life respectively under the two counts. But
a Division Bench of the High Court of Allahabad, on appeal
filed by the convicted persons, set aside the conviction and
acquitted both. Hence the	State filed this appeal
challenging the acquittal. Facts in brief: Accused Manpal Singh and deceased Ashok
were sons of Choki Singh in his third wife Ramsri (PW-1).
Their female children included Sheela Devi (DW-1). They were
living in village Jaleshwar (Eta District, U.P.). Accused
Manpal Singh married the daughter of accused Raghubir Singh
(A-2) and two years after his marriage he	shifted	 his
residence to Agra where Raghubir Singh was residing with his
family. Accused Manpal Singh prevailed upon his father Choki
Singh to give him half share	of the landed properties and
Manpal Singh wangled the sale proceeds from his father who
sold away half of his landed property. Manpal Singh invested
the money in a	 joint venture which he was carrying on with
his father-in-law. After the death of Choki Singh, accused
Manpal Singh pressurised his mother to give him the property
left behind by his father, but his mother (Ramsri - PW-1)
did not	 yield to such pressures. A few days prior to the
occurrence both	 the accused went to Jaleshwar Village and
ploughed the land which his father left behind. This was
resisted by PW-1 Ram Sri.	Accused	 Manpal	 Singh	then
threatened her	that should she persist with her resistence
he would not mind even to finish off the remaining male heir
(Ashok). But his mother did not take the threat seriously,
but the threat was made into reality on the fateful day. On 29.11.1977 while the child Ashok was playing on the
roadside near his residence both accused went near him and
caught hold of him. As they tried to forcibly drag him the
child screamed.	 His mother Ramsri hearing the cry of her
child came out of the house and on seeing the happenings she
protested in a strident voice. Some neighbors were attracted
to the	scene. As they saw both the accused dragging	 the
child by neck they moved forward to rescue the victim but
accused	 Manpal	 Singh	 then	whipped	 out a	 pistol	 and
brandisned it threatening with	 the querry "you too want to
die?" The neighbors retreated	and than the	two accused
carried the child to the engine shed to Maharaj Singh (PW-2)
which is situate next to the compound of Ramsri. They killed
the child by throttling him and dumped the dead body in a
pit wherein a pump set was installed. When the neighbors
found that the killers had slipped away from the kaccha room
without the boy they anxiously rushed	 to the shed and saw
the horrifying	sight of the death body of the child lying
submerged in the bit. The matter	 was reported to the police on the next day.
Both the accused were	arrested and after the completion of
investigation both the	 accused were	challenged for	 the
crimes. Prosecution story	was spoken to by Ramsri (PW-1) as
well as	 Maharaj Singh	(PW-2) and Adal Singh (PW-3) who was
Pradhan of the village. Learned Sessions Judge accepted the
aforesaid evidence and convicted them and sentenced them as
aforesaid. Division Bench of the High Court	 of Allahabad (Polok
Basu and K. Narain, JJ.) which reversed the conviction and
sentence made scathing criticism on the judgment of	 the
trial court. The Division Bench assailed the Session Judge
observing that	"he has	 not even cared to look into	 the
statement of defence witness Sheela Devi". Learned counsel
who argued for the appellant - State has pointed out that
the Division Bench of the High Court has overlooked the fair
dealing given by the Sessions Judge to the defence witness
and the rightful reasons adverted to by him declining to act
on her	evidence. Counsel then contended that the Division
Bench was totally unjustified	in interfering with the well
reasoned conviction and sentence passed by the trial court. There is no doubt that the child Ashok was murdered by
throttling. Dr.	 Daya Shankar	(PW-4),	 who conducted	 the
autopsy, had given adequate data in the Post-mortem Report
to support his finding	 that the child was	murdered by
throttling. There is also no dispute that body of the child
was found in the water of the bit wherein bump set of
Maharaj	 Singh	(PW-2)	was installed.	 PW-1 Ramsri.	PW-2
Maharaj Singh and PW-3	 Adal Singh have said in unison that
the child was physically lifted up by both the accused and
taken to the engine shed and	 later	the kidnappers	 had
slipped out of the room without the child and when	 the
witnesses entered the engine room they found the dead body
of the child lying in the pit. If the aforesaid evidence	 is accepted by the court
there is no escape for the accused from conviction of the
murder of the child but learned Judges of the Division Bench
of the High Court swept off PW-1 Ramsri solely on the ground
that her daughter Sheela Devi (DW-1) spoke derisively of the
moral character of her mother. True DW-1 Sheela Devi said in
her evidence that her mother was living in adultery with one
Ram Pal	 even during the life-time of	 her husband Choki
Singh.	Those	imputations made by	the daughter	were
disbelieved by	the Sessions Judge lock stock	 and barrel
after discussing her evidence	in extense. We may extract
nere that part of the judgment of the Sessions Judge dealing
with the evidence of DW-1: But the Division Bench of the High Court, evidently
overlooking the	 above discussion of the Session Judge, has
made an	 unwholesome criticism	against the judgment of the
trial court in the following words: The Division Bench reiterated it in stronger terms at
the benultimate portion of the judgment thus: "It is
unfortunate that learned Sessions Judge has not even cared
to look	 into her (DW-1 Sheela	 Devi's) statement." It was
uncharitable on	 the part of the Division Bench to have made
such a	baseless criticisms on the Sessions Judge who took
pains to discuss the evidence of DW-1 at a	considerable
length and advanced sturdy reasons for not placing reliance
on the evidence of DW-1. Now the question is should the	court have allowed
defence witness	 to make such	 imputations on the moral
character of her mother in a	case where the fact in issue
was whether the accused have kidnapped and murdered her son? Section 140 of the Evidence Act permits that "witnesses to
character may be cross-examined and re-examined." Section
155 of	the Act	 permits the adverse party to impeach	 the
credit of a witness in the modes enumerated in the Section.
The first mode envisaged is by adducing evidence of persons
who testify that they believe the witness to be unworthy of
credit.	 Questions to	 elicit	 indecent or	 scandalous
imputations from witnesses in the guise to shake the credit
of another witness of party should not have been permitted. Section 151 of the Act saddles every trial court with the
power to forold such questions such questions "although such
questions or	inquiries may	have some bearing on	 the
questions before the Court unless they relate to facts in
issue." (The second and third modes envisaged in Section 155 are not relevant in this context) The 4th mode prescribed in
the Section applies to	 a limited class of cases. It	 is: In an early decisions of Patna High Court in Mahammad
Mian vs. Emperor . 52 Indian Cases 54, it was pointed out
that if	 inquiries involving any scandalous matters are made
with a purpose of shaking the credit of a witness "the court
has complete	dominion over	them and may	forbid	such
questions even	though they may have some bearing on	 the
question before the	Court."	 But Court may have	 not
discretion to forbid such questions, if they relate to the
facts in issue or to matters necessary to be known in order
to determine whether or not the facts in issue existed. A
Division Bench of the Calcutta High Court in Subala Dass vs.
Indra Kumar Hazzva & Ors. , AIR 1923	 Cal. 315. had to
consider the objection raised	by the	opposite side when a
question was but to the defendant during examination whether
the defendant was made	 pregnant by certain	person.	 The
counsel who but the question defended it on the premise that
it was	relevant as his client had a case that defendant did
not inherit the property by reason of her unchastity during
the life-time of her husband. The Division Bench pointed but
that if	 the fact in issue was whether the defendant	 was
disentitled to	 inherit the property	 by reason of	 her
unchastity then the	question would	 be relevant.	"If,
however, it was asked	 for impeaching her credit as a
witness." the Court will have to consider its powers to
forbid such questions. If the fact in issue was	 concerning the paternity of
the child Ashok, perhaps, some relevance to the moral life
of his	mother could have been	 assumed. But in this murder
case where the mother	of the	child gave evidence that her
son was	 murdered we find little scope for conducting any
inquiry into the moral	 life of the mother. Law does	 not
permit even the child	of a prostitute to be murdered. The
murderer in such a case cannot escape by establishing that
the mother of the child was of loose morals. We, therefore,
depricate evidence of DW-1	 as quite unnecessary	 and
irrelevant in this case. Unfortunately the	Division Bench of the High Court did
not consider the evidence of	 two other very important
witnesses (PW-2	 Maharaj Singh	and PW-3 Adal	Singh).	 The
entire discussion of the Division Bench appears to be
focused on the moral character of the mother of the child.
PW-2 Maharaj Singh is important in this case as the incident
happened inside	 the engine shed belonging to him. PW-3 Adal
Singh was the Pradhan	of the	village. Both witnesses were
immediate neighbors of the house of the deceased. Both of
them said in clear terms that	 the two accused were	seen
dragging Ashok	to the	engine shed and the witnesses raised
their protests	but could not go near the assailants as they
adopted a highly bellicose stance by pointing lethal weapon.
They further said that	 when the accused had evacuated from
the engine shed without Ashok they rushed to the shed and
found Ashok lying dead	 in the bit. Trial court placed full
reliance on their testimony. But the Division Bench of the
High Court, instead	of considering	 the worth of	 the
evidence, niggled on some irrelevant features and by-passed
the evidence of PW-2 and PW-3 very improperly. High Court	 did not accept the evidence of PW-2, not
because of any inherent infirmity discerned from it,	 but
because on the day when PW-2 deposed in the trial court. One
Ram Pal	 (described as	a baramour of PW-1 Ramsri) was also
present in the court building. About	the evidence of PW-1
and PW-2 the High Court made a general comment that if the
witnesses had come when Ashok was being dragged away by the
assailants. Ramsri would have	rushed to rescue Ashok. In
that context High Court made a further comment while dealing
with PW-1's evidence that she did not see whether the dead
body was floating or drowned in water and still no effort
was made to take the body out. "This is rather impossible
for any	 mother if she was behaving as a mother to	have
avoided to go to the body." The said comment was very unkind
as against the mother.	 Her mental balance when confronted
with the shocking scene and the shocking news of her 6-year
old playing son suddenly killed, could not have been as the
learned Judges wished her to behave. Suffice it	 to conclude that the impugned judgment has
resulted in miscarriage of justice	as a well merited
conviction has	been reversed.	We have no hesitation in
upsetting the	 said judgment of the High	 Court.	 We,
therefore, set	aside the acquittal of	 the second accused
Raghubir Singh	and restore the conviction and sentence
passed on him by the trial court. We direct the trial court
to take	 immediate steps to put the second accused Raghubir
Singh back to jail to	 undergo the remaining period of
sentence.