Heard. 2. By filing this writ petition, the petitioner has prayed
as follows:- c. Issue a writ order or direction in the nature of
 certiorari quashing the impugned notice dated
 23.07.2021 issued by the respondent no. 4.
 d. Issue a writ order or direction in the nature of
 mandamus directing the respondents to restrain from
 taking any action in regard to the order dated
 17.02.2022 issued by the respondent no. 4.
 e. Issue a writ order or direction in the nature of
 mandamus directing the respondents to restrain from
 taking any action in regard to the notice dated
 23.07.2021 issued by the respondent no. 4.
 f. Issue a writ order or direction in the nature of
 mandamus directing the respondent to restrain from
 taking any action in regard to the citation to appear
 dated 31.08.2022 issued by the respondent no. 2. 3. It is brought from the records that Miscellaneous
Appeal No. 200 of 2021-22 is pending before the learned 2 Commissioner, Kumaon Mandal, challenging the order
passed by the learned District Magistrate, Udham Singh
Nagar on dated 17.02.2022, i.e., Annexure 2 to the writ
petition. However, it is contended by the learned counsel
for the petitioner that the petitioner is 80% handicapped
person, and he was working only as a watchman in the
petrol pump where this dumping allegedly took place and
he is not liable to pay the royalties and the penalties. He
would further submit that though they approached the
learned Commissioner, Kumaon Mandal, for passing an
interim order or for disposal of the appeal on merit, the
learned Commissioner is not deciding the matter. 4. Mr. Yogesh Pandey, the learned Addl. C.S.C. would
submit that he has instruction that on the date fixed the
petitioner did not appear before the learned
Commissioner, Kumaon Mandal to press his appeal.
Hence, the petition should not be taken up. 5. Be that as it may, this Court is of the opinion that
the order passed by the learned District Magistrate,
Udham Singh Nagar directing payment of royalties and
penalties thereon at the first instance, without giving an
opportunity of showing cause to the petitioner appears to
be somewhat inappropriate. 6. Hence, the writ petition is disposed of giving liberty
to the petitioner to make a mention by filing appropriate
application before the learned Commissioner, Kumaon
Mandal, for passing an appropriate interim order in Misc.
Appeal No. 200 of 2021-22 or taking up of the same for 3 expeditious disposal within a period of 15 days, hence. If
such an application is filed within 15 days, the learned
Commissioner, Kumaon Mandal shall consider the
application and may pass an interim order or may dispose
of the appeal on merit. The learned Commissioner shall
also look into the question of violation of the principle of
natural justice as far as Annexure-2 is concerned. The
learned Commissioner, Kumaon Mandal shall dispose of
the matter, if so filed, within a period of 45 days from the
date of production of certified copy of this order. Till that
application is disposed of, if filed within 15 days, the
operation of recovery citation, Annexure-1 shall be kept in
abeyance for next 60 days. (Sanjaya Kumar Mishra, J.)
 (Grant certified copy as per rules)

PV 4