The petitioner is a public worker, who is residing

very near to the office of the first respondent

Panchayath and he is interested in taking up the causes

of the public before the concerned authority, seeking

redressal. According to him, the office of the first

respondent is situated by the side of a State Highway

Cochin-Danushkodi and it is unfortunate situation that

the Panchayat collects all public waste materials from

shops, market, establishments, hospitals and several

institutions situated in Adimaly town and dumps them in

the office compound of the first respondent Panchayath.

This practice is being continued, since the last a few

months, by the Panchayath. The dumping of waste W.P.(C) No. 32398 of 2015 -: 2 :- created heavy smell and unhygienic situation, causing

irreparable damage to the health of the citizens all over

the Panchayat. The people connected thereto and

thousands of people are visiting the Panchayat office

everyday and they are seriously affected by the foul

smell, which is being emanated from this public waste,

which unfortunately happens to be from the premises of

the Panchayat office building. At any time contagious

diseases will break out. The petitioner who works and

resides in the Adimaly town is personally affected by the

dumping of public waste in the compound of the

Panchayat office. Stray dogs, flies, rats and other

creatures are increasing day by day due to the

unscientific collection causing the spread of contagious

diseases, which is evidenced by Ext.P1 photograph.

Aggrieved by the illegal activities of the respondent

Panchayat, the petitioner has preferred Ext.P2

representation before the first respondent; but no action W.P.(C) No. 32398 of 2015 -: 3 :- has been taken so far. Having aggrieved by the inaction

from the part of the first respondent, the petitioner

preferred a representation before the District Collector

also; but no action has been taken on that

representation also. This is the grievance projected in

this writ petition. Hence the petitioner prayed for a

direction to issue a writ of mandamus or any other

appropriate order or direction directing the respondent

not to dump various types waste, collected from Adimaly

town in the compound/premises of the office of the first

respondent. 2. The first respondent filed counter affidavit

admitting the dumping of waste materials in the

compound of the office of the first respondent.

According to them, there is no other way to dispose of

the waste materials, which is collected from the different

parts of the Panchayat. According to the Panchayat, they

have been dumping waste materials in the compound for W.P.(C) No. 32398 of 2015 -: 4 :- the last 20 years and normal quantity of waste everyday

is around two tractor loads. Nobody has raised any

objection against the dumping of waste in the present

dumping yard, which is within the premise of the

Panchayat compound. It is also stated that at present

there was no building around the site and all the

activities came there later. For better and efficient

disposal of the waste generated in the Panchayat limits,

the Panchayat purchased 2 acres of land in Sy.No.293/2

of Mannamkandam village on 19.12.2014, spending an

amount of Rs.49,80,000/-, by virtue of Ext.R1(a) sale
 

deed and the said land was purchased for the purpose of

constructing a modern waste disposal plant. Thereafter,

the Panchayat alloted Rs.10 lakhs for the construction
 

of the roads in the property purchased by the said

sale deed. Apart from that Rs.5 lakhs was sanctioned for

construction of barbed fencing of the property. All these

amounts were sanctioned in the current year's plan of W.P.(C) No. 32398 of 2015 -: 5 :- the Panchayat. The respondent has approached the

nodal agency of 'Jalanidhi Padhathi' and the said agency

has in principal approved for sanctioning Rs.30 lakhs for

the construction of the waste treatment plant. The

Construction of the waste treatment plant is to be

completed only with the assistance of "Suchitwa

Mission" as the supervision of construction and the

proposals are to be completed with the plan of the said

mission. All these requires at least one year time for

completing the proceedings for starting the functions of

waste treatment plant at the property purchased by

Ext.R1(a). The sum and substance of the counter

affidavit is that at present, there is no way other than

dumping the waste materials in the compound of the

Panchayat office, first respondent wants permission of

this Court to continue the dumping of the waste in the

compound till the establishment of waste disposal plant. 3. The petitioner has filed a reply affidavit also W.P.(C) No. 32398 of 2015 -: 6 :- denying all the contentions raised in the counter

affidavit and subsequently contended that the dumping

of waste materials in the compound of the Panchayat

Office commenced one year back only and denied the

averments in counter affidavit that for the last 20 years

the first respondent has been dumping waste in the

alloted place. According to the petitioner, inauguration

of the road to that site was on 3.5.2002 and

inauguration of the new Panchayat building was

20.7.2006. So, it was impossible to dump waste

materials before the 2006. Normal waste comes about

4 lorry and 3 tractor load. The respondent started to

deposit waste hardly one year ago and since then, the

people of that locality are raising hue and cry including

the petitioner. Till 2014, the waste was dumping in a

place by name Koompanpara, in the own land of the

Panchayat . It is an isolated area and there was no

residential area adjacent to that place and the said place W.P.(C) No. 32398 of 2015 -: 7 :- is about 4 kmtrs away from the Adimaly town. Later the

Panchayat stopped the dumping of waste and adopted

an easy method of dumping in the Neriamangalam

reserve forest and that continued for some period. Later

when the forest authorities objected the same the

respondent stopped the same and started to dump in

the middle of the thickly populated town. Since the

incipience of dumping itself all the residence and

shopkeepers including the petitioner objected the same.

But still continuing that highly dangerous illegal

activities, despite the strong objection from the part of

the residents and traders of Adimali town. The

respondents themselves admitted that the present

dumping place of waste is not the notified area for the

same, as enshrined in Section 219F of the Kerala

Panchayath Raj Act, 1994(hereinafter referred to as 'the

Act'). Even though, the Panchayath has purchased some

property for starting a waste disposal plant, they have W.P.(C) No. 32398 of 2015 -: 8 :- not done anything to implement the said project. Had

the Panchayath initiated steps promptly, as they

claimed, they could have finished the project within

three months from the date of purchase of land. 4. The additional 2nd respondent is the Residence

Association represented by its president, the president

filed an affidavit supporting all the averments in the Writ

Petition. In addition to that, they averred that some

times Panchayath Authorities are setting fire to heap of

waste materials. Two petrol pumps are situated just 50

metres away from the waste dumping place and if the

sparks emit through wind, both petrol pump will turn to a

huge bomb, and entire town will fall into ruins. 5. Heard the learned counsel for the petitioner

and learned Standing Counsel appearing for the

Panchayath and the learned counsel for the additional 4th

respondent. 6. Both the learned counsel for the petitioner and W.P.(C) No. 32398 of 2015 -: 9 :- learned Standing Counsel advanced arguments in

support of the averments in the Writ Petition and

contentions raised in the counter affidavit respectively

filed by them. The sum and substance of the arguments

advanced by the learned counsel for the respondent

Panchayath is that the Panchayath has been dumping

the waste material in the compound of the Panchayath

office since the last so many years and at present there

is no way other than dumping the same in the compound

of the Panchayath office and the Panchayath will take at

least one year to start a waste disposal plant in the

property purchased by the Panchayath for the same.

Therefore, the respondent seeks permission of the Court

also to continue the disposal of the waste material in the

compound of the Panchayath at least for one year. The

question that arises for consideration in this Writ Petition

is, whether there is any circumstances warranting

interference of this Court, by issuing a writ of W.P.(C) No. 32398 of 2015 -: 10 :- mandamus, directing the Panchayath to stop the

disposal of waste materials in the compound of the

Panchayath. 7. After admitting this Writ Petition on the files of

this Court, this Court deputed a Commission to inspect

the compound of the office of the 1st respondent, where

waste materials are being dumped by the Panchayath.

The Commission filed a report with a sketch and

Annexure-II to IV photographs, which would show the

present lie of the property. 8. Going by the Commission's report, it could be

seen that the Commissioner depicted a clear picture of

the situation, which he has witnessed during the course

of his visit. So also, the petitioner has filed a work memo

to the Commissioner and he has answered all the

matters sought to be ascertained, during the course of

inspection. It is stated that the Panchayath office

building is situating in the midst of Adimali town and the W.P.(C) No. 32398 of 2015 -: 11 :- area, which is lying on the southern side of the

Panchayath building is used by the Panchayath for the

purpose of dumping various types of wastes and there is

no proper burying of waste in the land. The waste

materials, which have been dumped in a marshy land at

a distance of three metres away from the Panchayath

office building. The waste materials have not been

properly processed or buried and the Panchayath has

not taken any steps to process the different types of

wastes, including hospital waste, market waste, hotel

waste etc. Heavy foul smell be felt, even inside of the

Panchayath building. A lot of bees and flies are flying

inside the Panchayath office. The community hall, owned

by the Panchayath cannot be used, due to the heavy foul

smell coming out from the filth and various types of

waste materials dumped in the area. Apart from

collecting and dumping of waste, no treatment of waste

material has been undertaken by the Panchayath and W.P.(C) No. 32398 of 2015 -: 12 :- the Commissioner suspect the strong presence of

methane and other harmful gases which is likely to be

emanated from the heap of waste. On the northern side

of the boundary of the Panchayath property, there is a

thodu and water flowing from the thodu is extended up

to the western boundary of the Panchayath. The

remnants of waste materials can be seen in the water in

the thodu. A canal has clearly been polluted due to the

indiscriminate dumping of waste materials and garbage

by the Panchayath. There are a lot of waste materials

and a layer of oil, which appears to be generated from

the waste, can be seen in the canal. The waste and

other rubbish were dumped in the said canal. Therefore,

water in the canal is clearly polluted due to the dumping

of waste. There is no compound wall in the area, where

the wastes have been dumped. A housing colony by

name Vivekananda Nagar is situating just behind the

Panchayath building on the eastern side. Three W.P.(C) No. 32398 of 2015 -: 13 :- residential buildings are sharing common boundary

within the Panchayath just 35 metres from the dumping

yard. The range of waste dumped in the area includes all

types of wastes including those from market, house hold

and hospital. Considering the close proximity of the

ayurvedic dispensary with the waste dumping yard, it is

difficult to function in the said building and it is not

advisable on health reasons also. A residential colony is

also abutting the waste dumping yard. The birds like

crows are spreading the waste materials in the nearby

areas including wells in that locality. The indiscriminate

dumping of waste, without taking precautions to protect

the canal has caused hindrance to the flow of water.

Thus the water canal has polluted due to the dumping of

waste. Nearby wells are also affected. Unless effective

steps are taken by the Panchayath not to pollute the

water and the waste are properly processed, which are

not done, disastrous health hazards cannot be ruled out. W.P.(C) No. 32398 of 2015 -: 14 :- 9. Going by the Commissioner's Report, it is seen

that the Commissioner has depicted clear picture of the

environmental condition in the area, where waste

materials are being dumped by the Panchayath. Having

regard to the question in controversy involved in this

Writ Petition, it is apposite and profitable to reiterate the

relevant provisions of the Panchayath Raj Act, which

read as follows: Panchayath shall identify and notify suitable places

 within or outside the Village Panchayath area for the

 purpose of final disposal of waste. (2) While notifying the land under sub- section (1) health and environmental aspects shall

 be taken into consideration by the Village

 Panchayath. (3) Every Village Panchayath may make

 adequate arrangements for the utilisation of sold

 wastes for the preparation of compost and the

 disposal of it by sale. methods shall be adopted for the disposal of waste at

 the landfill sites in the manner specified by the

 Village Panchayath. W.P.(C) No. 32398 of 2015 -: 15 :- (5) Incineration of waste may be resorted

 to by the Village Panchayath for the disposal of

 infectious waste rejected from the hospitals, nursing

 homes or health care centres and non-industrial

 hazardous waste as specified by the Village

 Panchayath from time to time. 219N. Prohibition of deposit of rubbish or

 filth in public places.- No person shall deposit or

 cause to be deposited any rubbish or filth or other

 details into any public place not intended for deposit

 of rubbish or filth debris." 219S. Prohibition of deposit of rubbish or

 filth or excreta in water bodies and water

 sources:- (1) No person shall deposit rubbish or

 filth or excreta in a public water course or water body

 or any such water source vested in the Village

 Panchayath under sub-section () of Section 218 or

 allow to flow waste water into it or pollute the water

 in any other way engage or depute or compel or

 instigate any person to do such activity. (2) An offence under sub-section (1) shall

 be cognizable and non-bailable. (3) Whoever commits an offence referred to

 in sub-section (1) shall, on conviction, be punishable

 with fine which shall not be less than ten thousand

 rupees but not exceeding twenty five thousand

 rupees and with imprisonment for a term which shall

 not be less than six months but not exceeding one

 year. contravention of the provisions of this Act.-

 Whosoever deposits or throws any rubbish or solid W.P.(C) No. 32398 of 2015 -: 16 :- waste or carcasses in contravention of the provisions

 in this Chapter, if not falling under the purview of Section 219S , shall on conviction, be punishable with

 fine which shall not be less than five hundred rupees

 but may extend to two thousand rupees." 10. On a combined reading of the above

provisions, it is seen that a statutory liability is cast on

the Local Self Government Institutions to protect

environment and preserve hygienic condition, within the

area of the respective Panchayaths. According to Section 219F of the Act, it is the duty of every

Panchayath to identify and notify suitable places, within

or outside the Panchayath for the purpose of final

disposal of waste. Here, it stands admitted that the

Panchayath office compound is not a notified area under Section 219F of the Act. It is obligatory on the part of the

Panchayath to collect rubbish, offensive matter, filth,

trade refuse, domestic wastes, hazardous wastes,

excrements or polluted matters accumulated large

quantities and to remove the same to a depot or place W.P.(C) No. 32398 of 2015 -: 17 :- provided or directed by the Secretary at such time and

such manner. As per Section 219(A)(d) , every Village

Panchayath shall make adequate arrangements for the

removal of solid wastes. As per Section 219 I, no person

shall after due provision has been made under Section

219A by the Village Panchayath for the deposit and

removal of rubbish, solid waste, carcasses or filth,

deposit the same. As per Section 219 , in any ground

along the side of any road or on the bank of a water

course, there is a prohibition against disposal of rubbish

filth into any public place. So also, according to Section

219S no person shall deposit rubbish filth or excreta in

public water course or water body or any such water

source vested in the Village Panchayath or allow to flow

waste water into it or pollute the water in any other way

engage or depute or compel or instigate any person to

do any such activity shall be a cognizable and non-

bailable offence and the person, who commits such W.P.(C) No. 32398 of 2015 -: 18 :- offence shall be punished with fine, which shall not be

less than Ten thousand rupees but not exceeding twenty

five thousand rupees and with imprisonment for a term,

which shall not be less than six months but not

exceeding one year. 11. In view of the above provisions, which cast a

duty on the Panchayath, certainly, it can be said that the

Panchayath itself is violating the aforesaid provisions

under the Act and an alarming the situation, causing

threat to the public health and environment is prevailing

in the Adimali town. As apprehended by the 2nd

respondent, the Advocate Commissioner reported that

the petroleum outlet of Indian Oil Corporation is situated

approximately 60 metres away from the waste dumping

yard and there no high rise building between the former

and latter and at the time when setting fire, if the sparks

emit through wind, there is every possibility to fall the

petrol pump into ruins by fire. But, I am afraid that in W.P.(C) No. 32398 of 2015 -: 19 :- spite of such an alarming situation, again the

Panchayath seeks permission of this Court to dump the

waste materials in the manner in which they have been

disposing of the same at present. 12. It stands admitted that the 1st respondent is

unable to find out a solution immediately or in the near

future and they want at least one year to find out a

solution. Needless to say, it is for the 1st respondent

Panchayath to find out an alternative way for the

disposal of the waste materials collected from different

parts of the Panchayath in accordance with the law

referred above and this Court is not inclined to propose

any solution, as the same is not a matter, within the

domain or jurisdiction of this Court, under Article 226 of

the Constitution of India. 13. In the above view of the matter, this Court is

not inclined to grant even a moment for continuing the

illegal act, which is being done by the Panchayath, at W.P.(C) No. 32398 of 2015 -: 20 :- the risk of public health. On the other hand, this Court

finds that there is an alarming situation, causing threat

to public health and environment, which warrants

interference of this Court, in exercise of the

extraordinary jurisdiction under Article 226 of the

Constitution of India, by allowing the reliefs, as prayed

for. The respondent Panchayath is directed not to dump

various types of wastes collected from Adimali town and

nearby area in the premises of the office of the

Panchayath. This writ petition is allowed accordingly. Sd/- K. HARILAL,
 JUDGE

DST
 //True copy//

 P.A. To Judge