This appeal is filed by the assessee against the order dated
31.12.2015 passed by the Commissioner of Income-tax (Appeals),
Gandhinagar relating to the Asst.Year 2006-07. 2. Brief facts of the case is that the assessee is an individual and
stated to be in public service. For the Asst.Year 2006-07, the
assessee has not filed his return of income. Annual Information
Return details available with the Income-tax Department revealed
that the assessee has made cash deposits of Rs.13,25,490/- in bank
account with HDFC Bank, Unjha. As the assessee has not filed
return of income, the assessment was reopened based on the
information received in AIR and after verification, notice under ITA No.633/Ahd/2016 2 section 148 of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (for short "the Act") dated
28.3.2013 was served upon the assessee on 29.3.2013. In response
to the notice, no return was filed by the assessee, therefore notices
under section 143(2) and 142(1) dated 2.7.2013 alongwith
questionnaire, calling certain details, were issued by the AO to the
assessee. Again on 2.12.2013, a show cause notice was issued
which was also served personally on the assessee on 6.12.2013. The
assessee has not responded to this show cause notice also. The AO
also found that in two saving bank accounts in HDFC Bank, a sum
of Rs.13,25,490/- was deposited and another amount of
Rs.58,61,400/- was also deposited in the assessee accounts. As the
assessee has not responded to various notices, and not even filed
return of income pursuant to 148 notice, the AO added a sum of
Rs.71,86,890/- on account of unexplained cash deposits and
completed assessment by passing an ex parte assessment order. 3. Aggrieved against the ex parte assessment order, the assesee
filed appeal before the ld.CIT(A). The assessee has raised before the
ld.CIT(A) that the reopening of the assessment is bad in law; that the
AO erred in making ex parte assessment without due inquiry and
verification. Both the saving bank account of HDFC Bank referred
in the assessment order did not belong to the assessee, and
consequent levy of interest under section 234 /A/B/C and initiation
of penalty under section 271(1)(c) were also challenged before the
ld.CIT(A). 4. As against the first ground of validity of re-assessment order
under section 147 of the Act, the assessee has not filed any specific
submission, therefore, the same was dismissed by the ld.CIT(A). As
against cash deposits of Rs.71,86,890/- after a detailed discussion
the same was confirmed by the ld.CIT(A) as follows: This contention cannot be accepted as it is not correct to
 draw conclusion that assessee doing service has no
 source of making cash deposit. Appellant might have
 earned cash from other sources and utilized it for making
 deposit in bank account. iii) Appellant has referred to KYC documents regarding
 bank account with HDFC and claimed that signature do
 not tally with Appeal Memo Form No 35 filed by the
 appellant, hence, signature is a wrong signature.
 However, this contention cannot be accepted as signature
 reflected in Form 35 even does not matched with PAN
 Card and Driving License as submitted by the Appellant
 during appellate proceedings. Appellant may have made
 different signatures for different purpose and such fact
 cannot establish that two bank accounts do not belong to
 appellant. (iv) Appellant has stated that he holds only one account
 in HDFC Bank vide bank account no 01792100054372
 jointly with his wife. The AO in remand report has
 observed that in the KYC form received from the bank
 photo was not visible hence AO issued summons to the
 branch manager HDFC Bank to submit KYC details in
 respect of two accounts which the appellant has denied
 and details of the account which was jointly held by
 appellant with his wife. In response to summons, bank
 manager furnished the visible photo of the account holder ITA No.633/Ahd/2016 4 which was taken in Polaroid format which means the
photo was instantly taken open the account which prime
facie establish that the account holder was present at the
time of opening bank account and it is crystal clear that
appellant is the same person who is holding two bank
account and account jointly held by him with wife. This
contention and observations made by AO is not rebutted
by appellant and same clearly establishes the fact that
both the accounts actually belonged to appellant. v) It is also observed that appellant has not submitted
any copy of FIR regarding alleged fraud as claimed by
appellant nor submitted a copy of complaint filed
before any authorities and same prove that the appellant
has created afterthought story regarding disowning the
two bank accounts opened by him. vi) During the course of appellate proceedings,
information u/s 131 was issued from HDFC Bank account
regarding DEMAT client id 18094423 as charges
pertaining to above account was debited in bank account
whose cash deposits were considered as unexplained
cash deposit by Assessing Officer. The date of birth as
mentioned in KYC form clearly matches with the date of
birth of appellant. The photograph attached with- KYC
form, along with signature clearly reflect the photograph of
appellant. Driving license attached along with KYC form bear the
photograph of appellant. Said license attached with KYC
form was book license as issued by RTO and bear DL No
16331 which matches with new computerized
license . obtained by appellant and submitted during
assessment proceedings. The above facts clearly
establishes that even DEMAT account opened in HDFC
Bank belong to appellant and demat charges pertaining to
this account was debited in two bank accounts. As shares
transactions showed loss of Rs.2,51,841/-, same was not
considered while adjudicating the present issue. vii) It can be seen from the copy of order sheet as
reproduced hereinabove, the authorized representative of
appellant on 16th December 2015 has accepted account
wherein cash was deposited is nothing but belong to
appellant only. The authorized representative has also
accepted the KYC details of Demat account to be correct. He had only argued to decide appeal considering all the
 submission filed during appellant proceedings. The facts
 along with KYC details as obtained from HDFC bank
 regarding DEMAT statement clearly state that two bank
 account considered by Assessing Officer as well as
 DEMAT statement in fact belong to appellant and as
 appellant ahs failed to explain the source of cash deposit,
 the same are required to be considered as unexplained
 cash credit in the hands of appellant. Considering the facts discussed hereinabove, addition made by
 the AO of Rs.71,86,980/- is hereby confirmed and related
 grounds of appeal raised by the appellant are dismissed." 5. Further, the ld.CIT(A) on getting remand report from the AO
and rejoinder from the assessee enhanced the assessment as
follows: 6. Aggrieved against the same, the assessee filed appeal before
the Tribunal raising the following grounds: 7. During the course of hearing of the above appeal, the assessee
has also raised the following additional grounds of appeal: 8. The assessee has also filed additional evidence invoking Rule
18 of the Income Tax (Appellate Tribunal) Rules, 1963. Thus, the
additional grounds and additional evidences filed by the assessee are
taken up for consideration. On the issue of 148-notice, the ld.AR
claimed that 148-notice was not served to the assessee, whereas it
has been received by his wife Veenaben S. Patel. She put her
signature on the duplicate copy of the notice with address Chokcino
Dhhar, Nr.Chabutaro, Unjha and also mentioned mobile no.99785
76767. The assessee claimed that address given in the notice is not
correct address and notice served to his wife was not valid service of
notice. In support of the same, the assessee filed before us account
opening form, driving licence issued by RTO, gas connection
certificate (which was in Gujarati), ration card copy, (which is also in
Gujarati), and claimed that service of notice is bad in law. In this
connection, the ld.AR relied upon the judgment of Hon'ble High
Court Chhattisgarh in the case of Arden Steel Ltd. Vs.ACIT, 405 ITR
422 (Chattisgarh) wherein the assessee was served with notice under section 148 through Chartered Accountant, and was never served to
the assessee. Therefore, Hon'ble Court held that service was not
proper and quashed the entire assessment order. The ld.AR also
submits that the reasons recorded by the AO for reopening of the
assessment is bad in law, and therefore, entire reassessment is
liable to be quashed. 9. Per contra, the ld.DR appearing for the Revenue submits that
148-notice issued was received by the wife of the assessee by affixing
her signature as well her cell-phone number. The assessee's wife is
an adult member of his family and whenever notice is being issued
in the absence of the assessee, notices served to the adult family ITA No.633/Ahd/2016 8 members, which is deemed to be proper service of notice. However,
the fact is that the assessee has not filed return of income pursuant
to the notice under section 148 of the Act issued by the AO, and also
not participated in the hearing in pursuance of the statutory notices
issued under section 143(2) and 142(1) of the Act calling for various
information from the assessee. Further the ld.DR has also stated
that the assessee, both in form no.35 and 36 in his appeals before
the CIT(A) and the before this Tribunal showed the same address
was given as Chokcino Dhhar, Nr.Chabutaro, Unjha. This claim of
the assessee that the notice served on the wrong address is not valid
in law. 10. The ld.DR brought to our attention page no.5 of the CIT(A)'s
order wherein written submissions of the assessee dated 22.8.2014
has been reproduced as follows: But he did not receive any telephone from the Income Tax Officer
 about any inquiry in his-case. The copy of the said notice is enclosed
 herewith on page no.__. This shows my mobile number on receipted copy. Therefore, assessee
 has reasons to believe that the inquiry of A.O. was without
 jurisdiction. Thereafter, assessee received the assessment order u/s.
 144 r.w.s. 143(3) from the Income Tax Officer, Ward - 2, Patan who
 assessed his income at Rs.71,86,890/- by adding same amount as ITA No.633/Ahd/2016 9 unaccounted income being cash deposited .in two Bank A/c's. with
 HDFC Bank, Unjha Station Road Branch." 11. From the reading of the above written submissions, it is clear
that with mala fide intention the assessee has neither filed return of
income nor filed any details before AO which forced the ld.AO to
pass an ex parte assessment against the assessee. Regarding
reasons recorded, the AO has observed that the assessee has not
filed return of income for the Asst.Year 2006-07, and the assessee
has made cash deposits of Rs.13,25,490/-in saving bank account,
thus, the assessee is having a taxable income, but not filed return of
income, therefore, he has reason to believe that to the extent of
transaction of Rs.13,25,490/- income of the assessee has escaped
assessment in terms of section 148 of the Act, and therefore the
issuance of notice under section 148 is valid in law. The ld.DR
further submitted that the case law relied upon by the assessee viz.
Hon'ble High Court of Chhattisgarh is not clearly applicable to the
facts of the present case. Since 148-notice has been served on the
assessee, which was received by the assessee's wife by subscribing
her signature as well as cell-phone number in the notice. It is
thereafter 143(2) and 142(1) notices were also duly served upon the
assessee. So this judgment relied by the ld.AR is not applicable to
the facts of the present case. Therefore, reopening of the
assessment is valid in law. 12. We have given our thoughtful consideration and perused
material available on record. It is undisputed fact that the assessee
has not filed return of income under section 139(1) of the Act.
However, based on the AIR, the AO has found cash deposits of
Rs.13,25,490/- in the bank account by the assessee, and non-filing
of return by the assessee made the AO to invoke section 147 of the
Act by issuance of notice under section 148 of the Act. As rightly ITA No.633/Ahd/2016 10 stated by the ld.DR, we do not find any infirmity in the reason
recorded by the AO in the issuance of notice under section 148 of
the Act. 13. The next aspect is about service of 148 notice. The assessee in
its written submissions dated 22.8.20014 has clearly admitted that
"assessee had received notice from Income Tax Officer, Ward-2,
Patan". Further, copy of the notice produced in the additional
documents clearly showed that this notice has been received by the
assessee's wife by subscribing her signature as well as cell-phone
number. Further, 148-notice was issued on the same address as
shown in the Form no.35 and 36 filed by the assessee. Therefore,
the assesee's claim that notice remained unserved on him is without
any basis, and the same is rejected and the additional ground raised
by the assessee, in this regard, are hereby dismissed. 14. On merits of the case the ld.AR pleaded that the AO has not
proved cash deposits in the bank account with corroborative
evidence that it belonged to the assessee. Mere cash deposits
cannot be said to be the income of the assessee, and further address
given in the bank account does not belong to the assessee.
Therefore, entire addition of Rs.71,86,890/- is to be deleted. In this
connection, theld.AR relied upon Co-ordinate Bench's judgment in
the case of Adventure Designs P.Ltd. Vs. ITO, in ITA
No.1617/Del/2010 wherein the AO made addition of Rs.2.63 crores
under section 68 of the Act on account of unexplained amount
deposited in the bank account maintained with Standard Chartered
Bank, which was not belonged to assessee-company. 15. Per contra, the ld.DR appearing for the Revenue brought to our
attention remand report dated 26.10.2015 and 18.11.2015 by the
AO. However, the contention of the assessee that two saving bank ITA No.633/Ahd/2016 11 accounts in HDFC bank did not belong to the assessee is not
acceptable. Two accounts found to be jointly held by the assessee
and his wife. In response to the summons, the Bank Manager
furnished visible photo of the account holder, which prima facie
establish that account holder was present at the time of opening of
the bank account, and it is crystal clear that the assessee is the
same person, who is holding two bank accounts jointly with his wife.
Furthermore, even assuming for a moment that SB account does not
belong to the assessee, the assessee has not filed any FIR against
the so-called forged bank account. Further, in the order-sheet dated
16.12.2015, the assessee's representative has accepted that the
bank accounts wherein cash deposited, which are nothing but
belongs to the assessee only. Therefore, the contention of the
assessee that the bank account are not belongs to him is not proved
with proper evidence. Therefore, this ground is also required to be
rejected. 16. The ld.DR also invited finding of the Co-ordinate Bench of the
ITAT, Delhi Bench wherein the assessee-company stated that the
bank account was opened by it, but on inquiry the bank has not
replied to the AO. Therefore, Tribunal held that no adverse inference
can be made and the matter was remitted to the file of the AO to
consider the issue afresh. But in the present case of the assessee,
Bank Manager of HDFC Bank produced KYC forms as well as clear
copy of photo affixed in the account opening form which confirms
that the assessee is the person who opened bank account. Thus,
the case law relied upon by the assessee is not applicable to the
facts of the present case. 17. We have heard rival contentions. We do not find any merit in
the arguments of the ld.AR both on validity and reopening of the ITA No.633/Ahd/2016 12 assessment as well as on merits of the case on account of following
reasons: For the above reasons, we hold that grounds raised by the
assessee are hereby rejected, and the appeal of the assessee is
hereby dismissed. 18. In the result, appeal of the assessee is dismissed.
Order pronounced in the Court on 13th May, 2022 at
Ahmedabad.