(Sanjay Karol, C.J.)

 This Court is called upon to answer the following questions: [10] Petitioner has got no locus and in any case, petition

filed with a mala fide intent, is nothing but an abuse of judicial

process. [11] The terms and conditions of the Merger Agreement with

the Indian Dominion prescribed that the State Government would

worship Mata Tripureswari and other temples, in a traditional

system. Since such practice was followed prior to the

independence, from the regime of the Maharaja, that domestic

animal sacrifice during worship, being an integral part of the

worship and as such, is still continued and cannot be stopped.

[12] That since long Hinduism accepted such practice and

sentiments of the sect of large Hindu culture involves such

sacrifices of the goats, pigeons, buffaloes etc. before the Goddess.

Petitioner has failed to consider such public sentiment of long Page 6 of 72 religious profess and practice. The practice of animal sacrifice, is

as per the ―long accepted procedure of Hindu rituals of the Tantrik

method of worship of the Dash Maha Vidya‖, i.e. ten forms of the

Goddess of the Hindus. [13] Further it is accepted by the Hindu scriptures and

various cults under Hinduism, that ―Devi Tripura Sundari‖(Mata

Tripureswari) is one of the 51 shakti piths of Hindu mythology and

one of the form of ―Dash Maha Vidya' known as ―shoroshi‖ form,

which has been worshipped as per the Tantrik worship method of

the Tantrik Cult. The ―Tantric cult‖ has various steps of the

worship, with the last one to present ―Ahuti‖ in the form of

sacrifices of the goat(s), pigeon(s), buffaloe(s) etc. before the

Goddess, which is an integral part of the worship as per the

accepted practices of the cult. Also sentiment of the sect of large

Hindu culture is involved on such sacrifices before the Goddess for

ages. [14] That the petition is motivated inasmuch as petitioner

has confined the issue of animal sacrifice only with regard to

Hindu religion and not laid any challenge to the practice of animal

sacrifice carried out by the Muslim community during their festival

of „Bakri Eid‟ and that petition has been filed ―only to disturb the

Hindu sentiment and presumably by anti Hindu elements‖ with a

view to disturb public order and as such is politically motivated. Page 7 of 72 [15] It is further averred that in India, some religious

practices are followed by animal sacrifices before the

God/Goddess/Allah/Super Powers, following their cult of

concerned religion, such as Hindus, Muslims and some Tribal sect

of India as per their customs. [16] To support his submission, that animal sacrifice is an

integral and essential part of practice of tenets of the temples in

the State of Tripura, during the course of hearing, learned

Advocate General has placed on record 3(three) documents; (i)

the works of W.W. Hunter termed as ―A Statistical Account of

Bengal‖ [Volume-VI, 1876 publication] relating to Chittagong Hill

Tracts, Chittagong, Noakhali, Tipperah, Hill Tipperah; (ii) Imperial

Gazetteer of India [Volume-IV] again works of W.W. Hunter and (iii) minutes of the meeting dated 18th June, 1982 in connection

with the management of the public places of worship in Tripura.

[17] We now proceed to consider such contentions : Subject to public order, morality and health, every
religious denomination or any section thereof shall
have the right (a) to establish and maintain institutions
 for religious and charitable purposes; (b) to manage its own affairs in matters
 of religion; Part - IV(Directive Principles of State Policy).

―48. Organisation of agriculture and animal
husbandry - The State shall endeavour to organise
agriculture and animal husbandry on modern and
scientific lines and shall, in particular, take steps for
preserving and improving the breeds, and prohibiting
the slaughter, of cows and calves and other milch and
drought cattle.‖
 (Emphasis supplied). ―48A. Protection and improvement of
environment and safeguarding of forests and
wild life - The State shall endeavour to protect and
improve the environment and to safeguard the forests
and wild life of the country.‖
 (Emphasis supplied). Part IV-A(Fundamental Duties). ―51A. It shall be the duty of every citizen of India; .............. (g) to protect and improve the natural
 environment including forests, lakes, rivers and
 wild life, and to have compassion for living
 creatures; (h) to develop the scientific temper, humanism
 and the spirit of inquiry and reform; (i) to safeguard public property and to abjure
 violence.‖
 (Emphasis supplied). [24] The understanding of careful reading of Article 25 reveals that all persons are equally entitled to freedom of

conscience and have a right to freely profess, practise and

propagate religion, but then, this is subjected to certain rigours

and that being ―public order‖, ―morality‖, ―health‖ and ―other

provisions of Part III of the Constitution‖. Thus, to our reading,

though the right is exclusive in nature but is subjected to certain

restrictions within the Constitutional framework.

[25] Insofar as Article 26 is concerned, again the freedom

of every religious denomination or any section thereof, more

specifically to manage its own affairs in matter of religion are

subjected to public order, morality and health.

[26] In terms of Article 48 , it is obligatory on the part of

the State, for the expression used is ―shall‖, to make an

endeavour of organizing agriculture and animal husbandry on the Page 12 of 72 modern and scientific lines and take steps for preserving and

improving breeds and prohibiting the slaughter of cows and calves

and other milch and drought cattle. A restrictive meaning cannot

be given to the words ‗agriculture' and ‗animal husbandry'. It is

not restricted only to oxen which are traditionally used for

agriculture. It would, in fact, include all types of animals put to

use for such purpose depending upon several factors such as

religion; practices followed and terrain, etc.. Agriculture and

animal husbandry are wider concepts having different

connotations e.g. father of the Nation ―Mahatma Gandhi‖ laid

emphasis on drinking goats milk for he found it to be extremely

nourishing. [27] The term ―wildlife‖ has not been defined under the

Constitution (48A) but perhaps, would include ―any living being‖

necessary to form a chain of living organism.

[28] The Constitution calls upon every citizen of India to

exhibit compassion for all living creatures and develop a temper of

humanism towards all wildlife. [29] An overall view of bare reading of the provisions would

thus exhibit that the framers of the Constitution had desired to

inter alia, develop a spirit of compassion and humanism, abjure

violence and also exhibit the same towards all living beings. Page 13 of 72 [30] Conscious of the fact that all fundamental duties may

not be enforceable, but then, as we consider, are to be promoted

for achieving fulfillment of the constitutional goals. For then only,

excellence in all spheres of individual and collective activity would

result into the nation, constantly rising to higher levels of

endeavour and achievement. COURTS INTERPRETATION OF ARTCILE 21 VIS-A-VIS LIFE
OF ANIMALS : COURTS INTERPRETATION OF ARTICLE 25 & 26 - RIGHT TO
FREEDOM OF RELIGION: We notice that the very same paragraph stands

reproduced and reiterated subsequently by another Constitution

Bench (5 Judges) in Shayara Bano Vs. Union of India &

others , (2017) 9 SCC 1. [38] What is the difference between a religious practice and

essential and integral part of practice of a religion, stands

considered by the Constitution Bench (5 Judges) of the Apex Court

in Dr. M. Ismail Faruqui & others Vs. Union of India &

others , (1994) 6 SCC 360 as under: [41] In A. S. Narayana Deekshitulu Vs. State of A.P. &

others , (1996) 9 SCC 548 (2 Judge Bench) the Court

emphasized the need of co-existence and tolerance, the very spirit

of ancient thought in the scriptures of taking care of and look

upon all living beings as friends, ―for in all of them there resides

one soul. All are but a part of that universal soul.‖ It took note of

the reforms brought in by the society, changing old values,

crumbling old social orders. With the change of the social order,

religion itself has undergone several changes, by responding to

the social system, in introducing corresponding changes both in

the religion and the religious institutions. The issue as to whether

right of the priest (Archaka) is hereditary or not stood answered in

the negative by holding that though performance of the ritual

ceremony is an integral part of the religion but the person who

performs the same or associates himself with the performance of

such ceremony, is not. [42] On the issue in hand, we stand immensely benefited by

the most recent decision rendered by the Constitution Bench (5

Judges-4:1) in Indian Young Lawyers Association & others

Vs. State of Kerala & others , (2018) 13 SCALE 75 (5 Judge) Page 23 of 72 (hereinafter referred to as 'Sabarimala') with profit we extract

the relevant portion of the separate opinion(s) rendered by the

Hon'ble Members of the Bench. For determining what is an

essential part of practice of one's religion, Hon'ble Dipak Mishra,

CJI, as he then was, opined that : Equally, if different groups of a religious
community speak with different voices on
the essentiality aspect presented before
the Court, the Court is then to decide as
to whether such matter is or is not
essential. Religious activities may also be
mixed up with secular activities, in which
case the dominant nature of the activity
test is to be applied. The Court should
take a common-sense view and be
actuated by considerations of practical
necessity. 21.7. The exceptions to this individual
right are public order, morality, and
health. "Public order" is to be
distinguished from "law and order". "Public disorder" must affect the public at
large as opposed to certain individuals. A
disturbance of public order must cause a
general disturbance of public tranquility.
The term "morality" is difficult to define.
For the present, suffice it to say that it
refers to that which is considered
abhorrent to civilized society, given the
mores of the time, by reason of harm
caused by way, inter alia, of exploitation
or degradation. "Health" would include
noise pollution and the control of disease. Page 26 of 72 21.8. Another exception to the
 fundamental right conferred by Article
 25(1) is the rights that are conferred on
 others by the other provisions of Part
 III.‖
 (Emphasis supplied). [45] Hon'ble D Y Chandrachud, J, has held ―morality‖ for

the purposes of Article 25 and 26 to mean ―that which is governed

by a fundamental constitutional principles‖ (Para-11); he clearly

opined that "conversation with the Constitution must be

restructured to evolve both with the broadening of the content of

liberty and dignity and the role of the Court as an enforcer of

constitutional doctrine" (Para-17) and that it must be proved that

"Practice is essential to religion and inextricably connected with its

fundamental character." [46] On the issue of ―constitutional morality‖ he opined

that the right of freedom of religion ―is not a stand alone right‖. It

is an integral element of the entire chapter of fundamental rights

and constitutional Articles which recognize fundamental rights and

have to be understood ―as a seamless web‖. Together they build

the edifice of constitutional liberty and fundamental human

freedoms in Part - III are not disjunctive or isolated. They exist

together. It is only in cohesion that they bring a realistic sense to

the life of the individual as the focus of human freedoms. Further

held that : But when one shows justness in action,
 there is no feeling of any grant or
 generosity. That will come within the
 normative value. That is the test of
 constitutional justness which falls within
 the sweep of constitutional morality. It
 advocates the principle of constitutional
 justness without subjective exposition of
 generosity." 131. The duty of the constitutional courts is
 to adjudge the validity of law on well-established
 principles, namely, legislative competence or
 violations of fundamental rights or of any other
 constitutional provisions. At the same time, it is
 expected from the courts as the final arbiter of
 the Constitution to uphold the cherished
 principles of the Constitution and not to be
 remotely guided by majoritarian view or popular
 perception. The Court has to be guided by the
 conception of constitutional morality and not by
 the societal morality. 133. In this regard, we have to telescopically
 analyse social morality vis-à-vis constitutional
 morality. It needs no special emphasis to state
 that whenever the constitutional courts come
 across a situation of transgression or dereliction
 in the sphere of fundamental rights, which are
 also the basic human rights of a section,
 howsoever small part of the society, then it is for
 the constitutional courts to ensure, with the aid of
 judicial engagement and creativity, that
 constitutional morality prevails over social
 morality.‖
 (Emphasis supplied). (ii) PUBLIC ORDER : in fact, it does not appear to satisfy the
 narrow traditional features of any religion
 or creed. It may broadly be described as a
 way of life and nothing more. 30. The Hindu thinkers reckoned with
 the striking fact that the men and women
 dwelling in India belonged to different
 communities, worshipped different gods,
 and practiced different rites (Kurma
 Purana).(Ibid p.12.) 31. .....It presents for our
 investigation a complex congeries of
 creeds and doctrines which in its gradual
 accumulation may be compared to the
 gathering together of the mighty volume
 of the Ganges, swollen by a continual Page 33 of 72 influx of tributary rivers and rivulets,
spreading itself over an ever-increasing
area of country and finally resolving itself
into an intricate Delta of tortuous steams
and jungly marshes ........ The Hindu
religion is a reflection of the composite
character of the Hindus, who are not one
people but many. It is based on the idea of
universal receptivity. It has ever aimed at
accommodating itself to circumstances,
and has carried on the process of
adaptation through more than three
thousand years. It has first borne with and
then, so to speak, swallowed, digested,
and assimilated something from all
creeds." ("Religious Thought & Life in
India" by Monier Williams, P.57.) 32. .... The history of Indian thought
emphatically brings out the fact that the
development of Hindu religion has always
been inspired by an endless quest of the
mind for truth based on the consciousness
that truth has many facets. Truth is one,
but wise men describe if differently. The
Indian mind has, consistently through the
ages, been exercised over the problem of
the nature of godhead the problem that
faces the spirit at the end of life, and the
interrelation between the individual and
the universal soul. "If we can abstract
from the variety of opinion", says Dr.
Radhakrishnan, "and observe the general
spirit of Indian thought, we shall find that
it has a disposition to interpret life and
nature in the way of monistic idealism,
though this tendency is so plastic, living
and manifold that it takes many forms and Page 34 of 72 expresses itself in even mutually hostile
teachings".(Ibid, p.32.) 33. ....Though philosophic concepts and
principles evolved by different Hindu
thinkers and philosophers varied in many
ways and even appeared to conflict with
each other in some particulars, they all
had reverence for the past and accepted
the Vedas as the sole foundation of the
Hindu philosophy. Naturally enough, it was
realised by Hindu religion from the very
beginning of its career that truth was
many-sided and different views contained
different aspects of truth which no one
could fully express. *** *** *** 36. Do the Hindus worship at their
temples the same set or number of gods? That is another question which can be
asked in this connection; and the answer
to this question again has to be in the
negative. Indeed, there are certain
sections of the Hindu community which do
not believe in the worship of idols; and as
regards those sections of the Hindu
community which believe in the worship of
idols their idols differ from community to
community and it cannot be said that one
definite idol or a definite number of idols
are worshipped by all the Hindu in general.
In the Hindu Pantheon the first goods that
were worshipped in Vedic times were
mainly Indra, Varuna, Vayu and Agni. Later, Brahma, Vishnu and Mahesh came
to be worshipped. In course of time, Rama
and Krishna secured a place of pride in the Page 35 of 72 Hindu Pantheon, and gradually as different
philosophic concepts held sway in different
sects and in different sections of the Hindu
community, a large number of gods were
added, with the result that today, the
Hindu Pantheon presents the spectacle of
a very large number of gods who are
worshipped by different sections of the
Hindus. 37. The development of Hindu religion
and philosophy shows that from time to
time saints and religious reformers
attempted to remove from the Hindu
thought and practices elements of
corruption and superstition and that led to
the formation of different sects. Buddha
stated Buddhism; Mahavir founded
Jainism; Basava became the founder of
Lingayat religion, Dnyaneshwar and
Tukaram initiated the Varakari cult; Guru
Nanak inspired Sikhism; Dayananda
founded Arya Samaj, and Chaitanya began
Bhakti cult; and as a result of the
teachings of Ramakrishna and
Vivekananda, Hindu religion flowered into
its most attractive, progressive and
dynamic form. If we study the teachings of
these saints and religious reformers, we
would notice an amount of divergence in
their respective views; but underneath
that divergence, there is a kind of subtle
indescribable unity which keeps them
within the sweep of the broad and
progressive Hindu religion. difficult problem of defining or at least
 describing adequately Hindu religion and
 he evolved a working formula which may
 be regarded as fairly adequate and
 satisfactory. Said Tilak : "Acceptance of
 the Vedas with reverence; recognition of
 the fact that the means or ways to
 salvation are diverse and realisation of the
 truth that the number of gods to be
 worshipped is large, that indeed is the
 distinguishing feature of Hindu religion.
 This definition brings out succinctly the
 broad distinctive features of Hindu religion.
 It is somewhat remarkable that this broad
 sweep of Hindu religion has been
 eloquently described by Toynbee. Says
 Toynbee : "When we pass from the plane
 of social practice to the plane of
 intellectual outlook, Hinduism too comes
 out well by comparison with the religions
 an ideologies of the South-West Asian
 group. In contrast to these Hinduism has
 the same outlook as the pre- Christian and
 pre-Muslim religions and philosophies of
 the Western half of the old world. Like
 them, Hinduism takes it for granted that
 there is more than one valid approach to
 truth and to salvation and that these
 different approaches are not only
 compatible with each other, but are
 complementary". 34. The fact that reference to Hindus in the
Constitution includes persons professing the
Sikh, Jain and Buddhist religions and the
statutory enactments like Hindu Marriage
Act, Hindu Succession Act etc. also embraces Page 37 of 72 Sikhs, Jains and Buddhists within the ambit of
the said enactments is another significant fact
that was highlighted and needs to be specially
taken note of. 35. What is sought to be emphasized is that
all the above would show the wide expanse of
beliefs, thoughts and forms of worship that
Hinduism encompasses without any divergence
or friction within itself or amongst its adherents.
It is in the backdrop of the above response to
the question posed earlier ―what is Hinduism‖?
that we have to proceed further in the matter. 36. Image worship is a predominant feature
of Hindu religion. The origins of image worship is
interesting and a learned discourse on the
subject is available in a century old judgment of
the Madras High Court in Gopala Mooppanar and
Others Vs. Subramania Iyer and other. In the
said report the learned Judge (Sadasiva Aiyar,
J.) on the basis of accepted texts and a study
thereof had found that in the ―first stage‖ of
existence of mankind God was worshiped as
immanent in the heart of everything and worship
consisted solely in service to ones fellow
creatures. In the second age, the spirit of
universal brotherhood has lost its initial efficacy
and notions of inferiority and superiority
amongst men surfaced leading to a situation
where the inferior man was asked to worship the
superior man who was considered as a
manifestation of God. Disputes arose about the
relative superiority and inferiority which was
resolved by the wise sages by introducing image
worship to enable all men to worship God
without squabbles about their relative
superiorities. With passage of time there Page 38 of 72 emerged Rules regulating worship in temples
which came to be laid down in the treatises
known as Agamas and the Thantras. Specifically
in Gopala Moopanar (supra), it was noticed that
the Agamas prescribed rules as regards ―what
caused pollution to a temple and as regards the
ceremonies for removing pollution when
caused.‖ 37. In the said judgment it is further
mentioned that, ―There are, it is well known
Thanthries in Malabar who are specialists in
these matters of pollution. As the temple priests
have got the special saivite initiation or
dheeksha which entitles them to touch the inner
most image, and as the touch of the persons
who have got no such initiation, even though
they be Brahmins, was supposed to pollute the
image, even Brahmins other than the temple
priest were in many temples not allowed to go
into the garbhagraham.‖

 The Agamas also contain other prescriptions
including who is entitled to worship from which
portion of the temple. ―In one of the Agamas it is said (as freely
 translated) thus : ―Saivite Brahmin priests
 are entitled to worship in the anthrala
 portion. Brahmins learned in the Vedas are
 entitled to worship in the arthamantapa,
 other Brahmins in the front Mantapa,
 Kings and Vaisyas in the dwaramantapa,
 initiated Sudras in the Bahir Mantapa‖ and
 so on.‖

 The legal effect of the above prescriptions
need not detain us and it is the portion
underlined which is of particular importance as
the discussions that follow would reveal.‖ Page 39 of 72 ACTS WHICH DO NOT FORM AN ESSENTIAL PART OR
PRACTICE OF A RELIGION : [56] In Sabarimala(supra) it was observed that religion

is a way of life intrinsically linked to the dignity of an individual

and patriarchal practices based on exclusion of one gender in

favour of another could not be allowed to infringe upon the

fundamental freedom to practice and profess one's religion.

Ayyappana are Hindus and the practice of excluding women

cannot be held to be an essential religious practice. Accordingly,

Rule 3(b) of the Kerala Hindu Places of Public Worship

(Authorization of Entry) Rules of 1965 was struck down as

unconstitutional and ultra vires to sections 3 , 4 of the Parent Act.

BINDING EFFECT AND ENFORCEABILITY OF PART IV & IVA
OF THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA : It was observed that cattle formed the backbone of Indian

agriculture; they remain useful throughout their life whether milch

or drought; and that total prohibition of cow and cow progeny

slaughter may be justified. [59] The Constitution Bench (5 Judges) of the Apex Court in Minerva Mills Ltd. and Ors. Vs. Union of India and Ors. , AIR

1980 SC 1789 held as under : [65] It is thus seen that it is the duty of the Board to

advise the Government on the making of rules with a view to

prevent unnecessary pain or suffering, whether physical or

mental, to the animals generally; encourage construction of

sheds, water-toughs etc. by providing for veterinary assistance to

animals; advise the Government or any local authority or other

person in designing slaughter houses and maintaining the same in Page 45 of 72 connection with the slaughter of animals. What is important that

unnecessary pain or suffering, whether physical or mental, is to be

eliminated in the pre-slaughter stage, to the extent possible and

that animals are killed, wherever necessary, in a humane manner.

Emphasis is laid to prevent infliction of any sort of pain, suffering

or trauma on any animal, prior to it being slaughtered or killed.

[66] By virtue of Section 11 , any person who tortures, treats

or subjects the animal to unnecessary pain or suffering or

mutilates or kills the animal, in any unnecessary manner, is liable

to be tried and punished in accordance with law.

[67] However, Section 28 contained in Chapter VI,

reproduced hereinafter carves out an exception : Reference of the said rules is only to highlight the requirement of

slaughtering the animals in isolation and not in the site of or

visibility of another animal which is evident from Rule 6. Also only Page 47 of 72 such of those animals are to be slaughtered which are found fit

and certified by a veterinary doctor. As per Rule 7, there has to be

proper drainage system and the body parts or the blood of animal,

are required to be treated and not allowed to flow openly so as to

mix with common drains. FINDINGS : [(4) Nothing in this article shall apply to any
 amendment of this Constitution made under Article 368] .‖ Page 51 of 72 And here we may only remind the State what

message Sri Rabindra Nath Tagore conveyed to the then Raja and

this citizenry through his famous work - ―Bishorjan‖.

[81] Insofar as second plea of performance of a ritual

under the Tantrik method of worship is concerned, we find, except

for a bald assertion, the State not to have placed any material on

record. However, we shall deal with this part of the ground a little

later. [82] Here only we may state that this stage, we are

neither impressed nor inclined to accept the State's plea of

referring the matter for its consideration afresh, after inviting

objections or obtaining material from the general public. Notice in

the petition was issued on 11th April, 2018 and admitted for

hearing on 19th September, 2018. Post admission the matter was

taken up on several occasions and commencing from 8th August,

2019, heard on several times. Having afforded adequate

opportunity, State did file its response through the affidavit of the

Under Secretary to the Government of Tripura, Revenue

Department and as has been observed by R.F. Nariman, J in

Sabarimala (supra), which passage we reproduce hereinafter,

that would suffice the purpose of adjudication of the issues with

which we are concerned: [See Bharat Singh and Ors. v. State of Haryana
 and Ors., MANU/SC/0047/1988 : 1988 Supp (2)
 SCR 1050 at 1059].‖

[83] No separate notice to general public is required to be

issued for the simple reason that the affairs of management of the

temples are in the hands of the State. [84] In Jallikattu(supra) while discussing the concept of

humanism and speciesism, the Court observed that every species

has a right to life and security, subject to the law of the land,

which includes depriving its life, out of human necessity. Article

21 of the Constitution, while safeguarding the rights of humans,

protects ―life‖ which expression has been given an expanded

definition of any disturbance from the basic environment which

includes all forms of life, including animal life. The Court

categorically held that "so far as animals are concerned, in our

view, "life" means something more than mere survival or

existence or instrumental value for human-beings, but to lead a

life with some intrinsic worth, honour and dignity........" and that

―Animals' well-being and welfare have been statutorily recognised Page 53 of 72 and right to live in a healthy and clean atmosphere and right to

get protection from human beings against inflicting unnecessary

pain or suffering is a right guaranteed to the animals

under Sections 3 and 11 of the Prevention Act read with Article

51A(g) of the Constitution. And most importantly ―Right to dignity

and fair treatment is, therefore, not confined to human beings

alone, but to animals as well‖. [85] The word ―life‖ in Article 21 of the Indian Constitution is

wide enough to include every living organism be it humans,

animals, insects or bird. Deprivation of life has to be as per

procedure established by law. Thus it is pertinent in this regard

that sacrificing of animal and taking away of their life also has to

be in accordance with due process of law. Sacrifice of animal in

the manner and nature with which we are concerned, in the garb

of religion, of which we are of the opinion, is nowhere allowed by

law. Only such practices can avail protection under Article 25(1) which amounts to an essential and integral part of religion. In

Jallikatu (supra) it stands observed that animals also have life

which also has to be protected under the purview of the said

Article. [86] The Hon'ble Supreme Court has time and again

reminded that, the provisions in Part IV and Part IVA are to be

given due importance in achieving the constitutional goals. In Mirzapur (supra), that by enacting Article 51A(g) and giving it a Page 54 of 72 status of a fundamental duty, one of the objects sought to be

achieved by the parliament is to ensure that the spirit and

message of Articles 48 and 48A are honored as fundamental duty

of every citizen. Article 51A(g) therefore enjoins that it was a

fundamental duty of every citizen ―to have compassion for living

creatures‖, i.e. concerns for suffering, sympathy, kindliness etc.,

to be read along with the provisions of the Prevention Act.

[87] Apart from rights which are fundamental in nature,

Part IVA of the Indian Constitution casts duty upon every citizen

under Art 51A(g) with a moral obligation to protect and improve

the natural environment including forests, lakes, rivers, and

wildlife, and to have compassion for living creatures. Human owe

a duty to exhibit love and compassion towards animals, with an

empathy and understanding of the sufferings of animals who are

speechless and voiceless. This definitely are signs of a civilized

society. Animals also breathe as humans and are sometimes said

to have the same soul as humans. In our considered view,

sacrifice of an animal, based on superstition or not being an

essential part of practice of religion in a temple is absolutely an

antithesis to compassion. [88] Article 51A(h) urges every citizen to develop scientific

temper, humanism and spirit of enquiry and reform. Every

individual is duty bound to adopt a rational and logical thinking

and not to be carried away by superfluous religious dogmas. The Page 55 of 72 framers of the constitution had the desire to achieve

transformation of society. Duty is casted upon every individual to

participate in bringing social transformation, yielding in

compassion and humanism. Progressive society cannot be

achieved when one is confined to religious dogmas. Also one has

to adopt measures to inculcate scientific temper in a society

ridden with superstitions. [89] Article 51A(i) further mandates humanism to abjure

violence, which sense of duty would only be against human, but in

ones considered view against every living creature on this earth. A

child witnessing continuous violence towards animals may fail to

inculcate moral values of showing an act of love, kindness and

compassion towards animals. Sacrifice of animals in temples is not

pleasing to the eyes and this inhuman religious practice in the

name of religion has a definite impact on the psyche of a child.

[90] In Hanif Quareshi, Akhil Bharat Goseva Sangh

and Mirzapur (supra) as we have noticed, the Court has observed

that both directive principles and fundamental duties must be kept

in mind while assessing the reasonableness of legal restrictions

placed upon fundamental rights. [91] We repeat, which religion or community mandates

infliction of unnecessary pain or suffering on an animal? Which

religion prescribes that physical or mental pain or suffering should

not be eliminated in the pre-slaughter stage? Which religion would Page 56 of 72 want its followers not to treat animal with compassion, care or a

humane approach? And above all, which religion would allow itself

to be shackled to dogma, superstition and unfounded beliefs so as

not to reform and be in tune with the changing times in pursuit of

Constitutional morality. [92] In considering whether religious practice followed for

more than 500 years forms an essential part of religion, this Court

refers to the document ―Statistical Account of The Hill Tipperah

(Tripura) And Statistical Account of The District of Tipperah (For

belief History) produced by the state before this court. We do not

find textual evidence in it stating that sacrifice of animal is

obligatory in performing puja at the Mata Tripureswari temple. The

text only states that ―in the month of Agrahayan when the winter

paddy is being cut and gathered, a festival is held in honour of the

new wine from the species of paddy called manui, the fermented

product of which is the Hills man favourite drink. During the

celebration of the festival, new rice is eaten and also offered up to

the deities, goats, fowls, and pigs are killed for the entertainment

of guests, and wine is drunk to excess‖. Further the document mentions that during ker pujas

―pigs and goats‖ are sacrificed in large numbers. However, it does

not state as to whether the sacrifices are made in the temple

and/or as a part of essential practice. [93] From the text it is evident that sacrifices of humans

were prevalent, but effectually prohibited about 200 years ago. It

is said that the number of victims of human sacrifice till 1407 was

1000 (thousand) per year. It only signifies changing times of the

society towards social reforms by valuing life of humans. Every

religion now condemns human sacrifice and is no longer followed

as a part of rituals. Thus it is only logical that when human

sacrifice could be stopped then nothing can impede a ban on

sacrifice of animals as part of religious practice, for life of both

humans and animals are legally required to be valued and

protected. [94] Another document ―The imperial Gazetter of India‖

states that the Tipperahs, Jamatiyas, Nowatias and Riangs are all

of the same religion. Their divinities are the gods of fire and

water, of the forest and the earth; and ―sacrifices form an

important part of their religion--buffaloes, pigs, goats, and fowls

being the animals ordinarily used for the purpose. At the present

day, they are showing some symptoms of a tendency to conform

in many respects to the religious observances of the Hindus,

especially with regard to caste. They are superstitious and timid,

but capable of committing great cruelties when their passions are

roused. The Political Agent, writing in 1873 of the Tipperahs, thus

describes the result of their contact with the Bengalis:-‗The people

were very simple, truthful, and honest, until corrupted by the evil

influences arising from closer intercourse with the inhabitants of Page 58 of 72 the plains, and also by bad government. ... Every advantage was

taken of their ignorance and credulity, till at length they perceived

this themselves, and they now no longer hesitate to meet decit

with its own weapons.‖

[95] Importance cannot be construed to be an essentiality,

meeting the twin test; being core; inextricably connected with its

fundamental character. Aside the documents as aforementioned

and placed by the state none of the recognized works dealing

with the installation of idol or practices required to be followed in

worship thereof, as argued by the petitioner, has quoted the

reference of any essentiality of carrying out of the ritual of animal

sacrifice. Such works being ‗Pithamala Tantra', ‗Maha Pitha

Nirupan' and ‗Shiva Charita'; The ‗Shakti Pitham' authored by r.

Dinesh Chandra Aakar; ‗Rajmala and the History of Tripura'

authored by Sri Kailash Chandra Singha; ‗Human Sacrifices in

Tripura' authored by Rev. James Long, works of Sir Jadunath

Sarkar and ‗Gazinama' authored by Sheik Manuhar.

[96] Significantly, temple of Devi Tripureswari is one

amongst the 51 shakti pithas. It is believed that the temple was

set up owing to the fact that the right limb of sati fell into the

place where the Mata Tripureswari temple was established.

Practice of sacrificing animal in most other Shakti pithas is not

seen or carried out. [97] The Mata Tripureswari Temple does not have any

connection with the then Maharajas of Tripura but was founded on

the lineage and linkage of Sati. Thus it will not be wrong in

coming to an unambiguous conclusion that though the sacrifice of

animal in temple was traditionally carried out since 500 years but

there is no scriptural or textual evidence establishing the fact that

the sacrifices of animals in worshipping the deity were prevalent

since time immemorial forming an essential and integral part of

the religion in worshipping the deity and antiquity has no basis for

determination of essential practice. [98] Applying the principles culled out in Swamiar of

Shirur Mutt, Sardar Syedna Taher, Tilkayet, Acharya

Jagadishwarananda and Durgah Committee as examined and

explained in Sabarimala (supra) (by Hon'ble Dipak Mishra, CJI,

as he then was, Hon'ble R.F. Nariman, J and Hon'ble D.Y.

Chandrachud, J), it cannot be said that the practice of animal

sacrifice is essential to the core of the tenets rituals, ceremonies,

ceremonies, beliefs observances or the practice of religion within

the temple of Mata Tripureswari or other temples managed by the

State within the State of Tripura. Can it be said that if ‗ahuti' of

animal is not offered to Goddess Tripureswari or other Gods or

Goddesses, the religion itself would stand altered. Certainly, the

answer cannot be in the affirmative for the idol is worshiped by

the people belonging to all faiths, beliefs and religion including

Hindus. Testing the argument of sacrifice being core to the Page 60 of 72 worship of the said deity/idol, can it be said that after stoppage of

human sacrifice, almost 200 years ago, the deity, temple or the

place, stood defiled having lost its relevance, significance or

importance? or the people having suffered any consequential

wrath as stoppage of such observance? Most certainly not. In fact,

with each passing day, since then its glory, popularity and

influence has ever increased, more so, for it is perceived to be the

place where one of the body parts of Goddess Sati fell. If the sub-

stratum of the ritual of animal sacrifice is taken away, the

ceremony of performance of puja cannot be said to have been

defiled or the right to practice and profess religion, obstructed,

hindered or diminished in any manner. [99] In the instant case, sacrifice of animal in temples is not

done out of necessity but merely on the unsighted conviction and

credence that such activity would please the deity, who in return

would bestow them with blessings and wellbeing.

[100] Had it been such, that the sacrifice of animal in temple

is mandatory in nature, which remain inseparable from the

tradition and religion being so deeply rooted to the people then

there would have been no occasion of offering prasads with fruits

and sweets to the deity, asides animals by way of sacrifice. Not

every devotee goes on to worship the deity in these temples by

sacrificing animals. Evidently this particular practice by tradition is

merely optional and cannot be figured as an essential and integral Page 61 of 72 part of religion. For sacrificing innocent, helpless and voiceless

animals does not conquer constitutional morality. Perhaps, such

practices can only be said to be rooted in fallacy.

[101] The ban on sacrifice of animal in Temples of Mata

Tripureswari Devi Temple, Chaturdash Devata temple or any other

temple either managed by the State or otherwise does not infringe

the fundamental right as enshrined in Part III under Art 25(1) of

the constitution for the reason that such practice is contrary to

constitutional morality and health and this activity carried in the

name of religion is not intended to be protected.

[102] It is only those practices which are fundamental and

removing of which, will change the very foundation of the religion

which is protected under the umbrella of Art 25 (1) of the

Constitution. This practice of sacrifice of animal fails to succeed

the doctrine of ―essential test‖. Hence, Courts are duty bound to

remove such rudimentary practice which holds no value in today's

society to bring in positive reforms for betterment. Disengaging

sacrifice of animal in temple, from the way of worshipping the

Godess will bring no change in the religion.

[103] Devotees are not only restricted to the locals, It also

attracts huge visitors both from within and outside the State

either for the purpose of pilgrimage or tourism. Not every visitor

to this temple believes in such sacrifice of animal in the temple. To

them violence to an open eye would only be abhorrent. Page 62 of 72 [104] Hinduism includes Buddhist, Sikhs, Jainism and not

every religion of Hinduism considers sacrifice of an animal to be

an integral and essential part of the religion. Buddhist and jains do

not believe in killings as they believe in preaching ―Ahimsa‖- non

violence towards all living beings. Hence it stands contrary to the

view taken by the State where it says that sacrifice of animal is

part and parcel of the religion of Hinduism which involves tantric

method of worship, as, not every sect or follower of religion of

Hinduism follows sacrifice of animals in worshipping the deity.

[105] Major section of the community may believe in

carrying out such practice in the name of religion but

simultaneously, rights of co-religionists must be protected so as

ensure that it does not hurt their sentiments. Rights of all have to

be construed and harmonised as stands explained in Sabarimala

and Tilkayat (supra). Here majoritarian view confined to the

people of the region cannot be allowed to prevail upon the

principle of constitutional morality--an act not sanctified by law,

itself being based on a belief, abhorrent and violent in the

changing times of a civilized society. [106] It is expected from the courts as the final arbiter of

the Constitution to uphold the cherished principles of the

Constitution and not to be remotely guided by majoritarian view or

popular perception. The Court has to be guided by the conception Page 63 of 72 of constitutional morality and not by the societal morality [ Navtej

Singh (supra)]. [107] In fact the State should have intervened by bringing in

a legislation to stop "sacrifice of animals in a way deleterious to

the community at large" as stood observed by the Apex Court in Sardar Syedna (supra). [108] The State is empowered to regulate secular activities

associated with religious practices. However, State is not entitled

to as such, regulate or indulge in religious practices. What the

state can regulate under Article 25(2)(a) are the activities which

really of an economic , commercial, political or secular in character

though these may be associated with religious practices. [ Ratilal

Panachand (supra)]

[109] A question would however arise whether the activity

sought to be regulated is ‗religious' or ‗secular'. This distinction is

important for what is religious cannot be regulated. This again

raises the question whether the activity sought to be regulated is

regarded as an essential and integral part of the religion in

question. If so, it is religious in nature. [110] In Sardar Syedna (supra) and Tilkayat (supra), the

Hon'ble Apex Court held that the administration of the property by

a religious denomination is placed on a different footing from the

right to manage its own affairs in the matter of religion. The latter Page 64 of 72 is a fundamental right which no legislature can take away, where

as the former can be regulated by law. [111] In our considered view, and also taking note of the

constitutional mandate and sanctity, the role of Govt. in regular

activities of Tripureswari temple as other temples is limited, and

aiding the temple with funds to sacrifice one goat each day from

the Govt. money does not fall within the ambit of a secular activity

as provided under Article 25(2)(a) in the Indian Constitution.

[112] State's interference to ban such practices will not in

any way bring any fundamental change to the religion. And it is

the duty of the state to bring changes by eradicating all ill

practices to bring reforms in the society. Instead of participating in

such practices, State should enact a law banning slaughter of

animals in temples as it runs against public order, morality and

health. [113] Also discontinuing of assistance of state in

slaughtering of one goat in the temple on everyday basis does not

in manner amounts to breach of any agreement of merger.

[114] Unless it being essential, sacrifice of an animal for

religion cannot be considered to be a moral act. All religions call

for compassion and no religion requires killing. Sacrifice of animal

in the temple with which we are concerned, is seriously morally

wrong, for it is an act of illegally taking away of life. Animals are Page 65 of 72 also made of flesh and blood; they also breathe as humans; and

when hurt suffer pain which would be no less than what humans

suffer. Violence by way of sacrifice of an animal, open to public

gore has a traumatic effect on a viewer, more so innocent and

sensitive minds of grooming children, who in any event are

required to be sensitized. [115] Religious freedom is subject to health. One cannot

deny the fact that sacrifice of animal in temple does affect mental

and physical health of an individual. It is the duty of a State to

provide legal safeguards to protect individuals' life and to maintain

good health of the community. The blood of the animals are

allowed to flow in the open drains as a result causing foul smells.

Also it gets contaminated in the open drain, resulting into increase

of diseases thus adversely affecting the health of the public at

large, more so the residents of the area. Places of worship are

considered as most sacred, holiest and cleanliest where people

can peacefully connect to its creator. With blood of animals

sprinkled around on the ground and the severed heads of the

animals stocked infront of the deity, the view remains

frighteningly dirty, leaving an impression of deficiency of holiness

and peacefulness. [116] In State of Karnataka and anr. V. Dr Praveen

Bhai Thogadia (2004) 4 SCC 684 Court observed that the core

of religion is based upon spiritual values, which the Vedas, Page 66 of 72 Upanishad and Puranas were said to reveal the mankind seem to

be -―Love others, serve others, help ever, hurt never‖ and ―Sarvae

Jana Sukhino Bhavantoo‖. Rig Veda also states ―Behave with

others as you would with yourself. Look upon all the living beings

as your friends, for in all of them there resides one soul. All are

but a part of that universal soul. A person who believes that all

are his soulmates and loves them all alike never feels lonely.

Divine qualities of such a person such as forgiveness, compassion

and service, will make him lovable in the eyes of his associates.

He will experience intense joy throughout his life‖.

[117] Section 28 does not in any way allow sacrifice of

animal in temple. The word ―as required by the religion‖ poses a

question as to when will the religion require to inflict such pain on

the animal? Can it be said that such manner of killing can be

exempted under sec. 28 of PCA Act only when such killing is an

integral and essential part of the religion. Most certainly yes, for

the Prevention Act does not define religion, which in our view

certainly has to be understood in reference to Article 25. Religious

practice based on a tradition cannot have an overriding effect of

the Prevention Act so enacted. With an object of safeguarding the

welfare of the animal and to cure some mischief and old age

practices, so as to bring into effect some type of reform, based on

eco centric principles, recognizing the intrinsic value and worth of

animals. The prevention of cruelty Act is a welfare legislation

which overshadows or overrides the so called traditions. Page 67 of 72 [118] Mahatma Gandhi once rightly said ―the greatness of a

nation is judged by the way it treats its animal‖. Co-existence and

tolerance, the very spirit of ancient thought in the scriptures of

taking care of and look upon all living beings as friends, "for in all

of them there resides one soul. All are but a part of that universal

soul" as what we are reminded of as held in A.S. Narayana

Deekshitulu (supra). [119] The animals have basic rights and we have to

recognise and protect them. The animal and bird breath like us.

They are also creation of God. They have also a right to live in

harmony with human beings and the nature. Animal sacrifice is

one of the most diabolical form of cruelty inflicted on animal can

be no rationalization behind sacrificing animals in full public view

and several time it has been seen that untrained and unskilled

butchers give blows to animals. Many a times the animal is not

even killed in one blow, thereby leaving the animal smock and in

extreme pain and suffering. [120] Bodies constituted pursuant to Gauri Maulekhi

(supra), have failed to fulfil its role, obligation and constitutional

mandate of promoting health, safety and general welfare of the

animals. In view of the aforesaid discussion, we answer the

questions. [121] ―Whether act of the State in offering an animal

for sacrifice in the Temples in Tripura, can be said to be a

secular activity and as to whether prohibiting the same

would infringe the fundamental right, as envisaged under Article 25(1) of the Constitution of India?‖

 In our considered view, the State by an enactment

can only regulate or restrict any economic, financial, political or

secular activity which may be associated with a religious practice.

The role of the Government in regular activities of the temple is

limited to such religious activities which are secular in nature. Act

of the State of offering one goat every day, for a sacrifice in the

Mata Tripureswari temple and other temples on certain occasions,

lacks the essence of economic, commercial, political or secular

character and hence, the action of the State in offering such an

animal for sacrifice is neither permissible under the Indian

Constitution nor any statute. The right of offering an animal for sacrifice is not an

integral and essential part of the religion, protected under Article

25(1) of the Constitution. As such, no right of the freedom of

professing any religion by the State can be said to have been

violated. State has no religion other than constitutionalism and the

expression ‗person' under Article 25 has to be in reference to

natural person (Sabarimala). Withdrawal of such practice would

not tantamount to any change, fundamental in character of the

religion. [122] "Whether the age long practice of 500 years of

sacrificing animals, after stoppage of practice of human

sacrifice, in Tripureswari Devi Temple, Udaipur, Gomati

District, Tripura can be construed as an essential and

integral part of religion, as protected under Article 25(1) of

Constitution of India? The age long practice of a sacrifice of animal, either

by the State or by an individual, cannot be said to be an essential

part of the religion and as such, is not protected under Article

25(1) for it being against the principle/doctrine of morality and

health, as also provisions of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animal

Act, 1960 . Right to freedom of religion is subject to the rigours of

public order, morality, health and the other provisions of Part-III.

Sacrifice of an animal in a temple, not being an essential part of

religion, is also violative of Article 21 of the Constitution of India.

[123] "Whether a religious practice based on a ritual,

custom, tenet, tradition, not being an essential part of

religion, can be allowed to continue notwithstanding the

provisions of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960 and Article 21(Part - III) & Article 48 , 48A and 51A(g)

(Part IVA) of the Constitution of India?" Prudently, the Government can earmark land for
 opening shelter home for rearing such livestock. (d) The District Magistrate & Collectors of the
 respective districts and more specifically, District
 Magistrate & Collector, Gomati District, Udaipur as
 also District Magistrate & Collector, West Tripura
 District, Agartala under whose jurisdictions Devi
 Tripureswari temple and Chatur Das Devata
 temple are situate, respectively, shall forthwith
 take action for ensuring implementation of the
 orders; The Superintendent of Police of all the
 districts shall also ensure strict implementation of
 the order. Such officers shall be personally liable
 for implementing the orders; (e) The Chief Secretary, Government of Tripura shall
 also ensure compliance of the order. Also he shall
 ensure that at least in two temples i.e Devi
 Tripureswari temple and Chatur Das Devata
 temple in Tripura, where act of animal sacrifice is
 carried out profusely, CC TV cameras are installed
 forthwith; every month he shall have a soft copy
 of such video recording placed on this file; (f) Such video recording of the temple(s) shall form
 part of record of the present petition and shall be
 constituted as part of the record of the appeal
 preferred, if any, by any person, including the
 State; (g) District Magistrate & Collectors of all the districts
 shall initiate all measures of educating and
 sensitizing the general public of the constitutional Page 72 of 72 mandate and its importance, relevance and
 significance, more so, of adopting an attitude of
 love, humanism and compassion towards all
 animals/birds; (h) The State Government shall give due publicity
 and also sensitize the general public of the
 constitutional values and passing of the order and
 implementation thereof.