AMIT SHARMA, J. 1. The present application under Section 439 read with Section 482 of the
 Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (' CrPC ') seeks regular bail in case FIR No.
 119/2021, under Sections 406 / 409 / 420 / 120B of the IPC, registered at P.S.
 Barakhamba Road. 2. The case of the prosecution is that the present FIR was registered on the
 basis of a complaint made by Mr. Anil Kumar Sood (hereinafter referred to as
 'complainant'). The complaint was filed against four accused persons,
 namely, Haqmuddin, Islamuddin, Taiyyab Hussain and Manoj Patel (the BAIL APPLN. 1555/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 1 of 13 Digitally Signed By:RANJU BHALLA Signing Date:27.09.2023 17:21:51 present applicant). In the complaint, it was alleged that the complainant who
 is a retired person, suffering from cancer, was induced by co-accused
 Haqmuddin, who was a colleague of his daughter's immediate neighbor. It is
 alleged that the said accused person induced him by representing himself to
 be member of one of the teams at a company namely, 'BTC ADS PRO',
 which was trading in bitcoin. It was further represented that the said group has
 their own mining, shopping malls and was shortly coming with its own
 trading exchange like BLOCKCHAIN. It was stated that the said group had a
 sound business model, through which they were giving daily returns to the
 investors on their investments at such a rate that each investor could normally
 get close to double their investment in 250 days. It is stated that offer of the
 said company was supported by a booklet having registration details and
 showing their registered office as 'Coddan Cpm, 3rd Floor 120 Baker Street,
 London, England, W1U6TU-UK' and a website in the name of
 www.btcads.pro and having the email-id: [email protected] . Details
 including photographs of persons associated with it and persons who have
 earned through the company were also given in the said booklet. 3. It is alleged that on being induced, the complainant gave 3 cheques of
 Rs. 80,800/- each to the aforesaid co-accused Haqmuddin. It is further alleged
 that thereafter, the other co-accused Islamuddin, on the basis of some
 investment prospect, took another sum of Rs. 4,00,000/- in cash from the
 complainant. It is stated that initially, as promised, daily returns were visible
 on the website of the accused company on the IDs opened in the name of the
 complainant. Subsequently, it is alleged that the aforesaid Haqmuddin and
 Islamuddin introduced the complainant to co-accused Tayyaib Hussain, who BAIL APPLN. 1555/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 2 of 13 Digitally Signed By:RANJU BHALLA Signing Date:27.09.2023 17:21:51 further lured the complainant by saying that the investment was one lakh per
 cent safe and assured that his investment shall be returned in less than 3
 months. It is alleged that on the basis of aforesaid inducement, the accused
 persons took a sum of Rs. 60 lakhs from the complainant over a period of one
 month. It is stated that 21 IDs were opened in the name of the complainant,
 his wife and his son. It is alleged that after 15.03.2018, the accused persons
 stopped sending details of investments on the website, closed the IDs as well
 as the website - www.btcads.pro. It is further alleged that the accused
 Haqmuddin and Islamuddin were reachable on their mobile phones but
 accused Tayyab Hussain was untraceable. 4. It is alleged that accused Islamuddin and Tayyab Hussain arranged for
 the complainant to meet the applicant at a hotel on 04.11.2019 where all the
 accused persons including the applicant assured him that they would return
 his entire investment on or before 13.12.2019. It was alleged to have been
 stated by them that the said payment would be partly made in cash and partly
 by way of IDs in their new company called IMAX Capital, whose WhatApp
 number was given by the applicant to the complainant. It is stated that the
 applicant was seeing his messages sent by the complainant seeking repayment
 on the said number till 08.11.2019 and thereafter, he blocked the
 complainant. 5. During the course of investigation, the applicant did not comply with
 the notice under Section 41A of the CrPC and was arrested. During further
 investigation, it was revealed that the present applicant was stated to be the
 India-Pacific head of BTC ADS PRO, in the name of which several thousand
 people were cheated from all around the country. It is alleged that he used to BAIL APPLN. 1555/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 3 of 13 Digitally Signed By:RANJU BHALLA Signing Date:27.09.2023 17:21:51 organise seminars and meetings to induce people to make investments in BTC
 ADS PRO and there are several videos of the present applicant making such
 inducements. 6. Upon completion of investigation, the chargesheet was filed before the
 Court of competent jurisdiction. As per the status report dated 18.05.2023
 authored by Sh. Dharmendra Kumar Singh, Assistant Commissioner of
 Police, DIU/NDD, Mandir Marg, New Delhi, the role of the present applicant
 is as under: 7. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the applicant submitted that in
 the present case, it is stated that the cheques taken from the complainant were
 deposited in the account of other co-accused persons. It was argued that the
 amount alleged to have been cheated, as per the allegations in the present FIR
 has not come to the present applicant. It was further alleged that the present
 applicant has no connection with the aforesaid company and that he resides at
 Jodhpur. 8. It was further submitted that as per the chargesheet filed in the present
 case, no specific role has been assigned to the applicant. To substantiate the
 said contention, it was submitted that: 9. Leaned counsel for the applicant further submitted that investigation in
 the present FIR is complete, chargesheet as well as supplementary
 chargesheet have been filed before the Court of competent jurisdiction. It was
 submitted that the applicant was arrested on 20.04.2022 and has been in
 judicial custody for more than one and a half year and since the trial is likely
 to take a long time, it was prayed that the applicant be released on bail. 10. In support of his contentions, learned counsel for the applicant places
 reliance on the following judgments: iv. Ravinder Gupta v. Union territory of J&K, 2022 SCC OnLine
 J&K 791 - Based on the this judgment it was argued that while nature
 of offence and severity of punishment provided for commission of
 alleged offence are important considerations, prima facie view of
 involvement of the person seeking bail in commission of alleged
 noffences is also required to be taken into account. v. H.B. Chaturvedi v. C.B.I , 2010 SCC OnLine Del 2155 - While
 placing reliance on the said case, learned counsel for the applicant
 submitted that even if it appears that an accused is prima facie guilty of
 alleged offences, bail cannot be refused as an indirect measure for
 according punishment to them. It was submitted that in the cited case,
 a coordinate bench of this Court granted bail to a person accused of
 commission of offences under Sections 420 / 468 / 478 of the IPC and
 observed that it cannot be said that a in all cases involving serious
 economic offences, bail should be invariably refused. vi. Sanjay Chandra v. CBI , (2012) 1 SCC 40 - It was submitted that in the said judgment , the Hon'ble Supreme Court observed that pendency
 of further investigation cannot be a ground for retaining a person in
 continued custody. 11. Per contra, learned APP for the State submitted that the present
 applicant is the kingpin of the entire scheme which he ran in the name of
 'BTC ADS PRO'. It was pointed out that nearly 34 cases are registered
 against the present applicant at different places, all across the country and he
 is running in custody in many of the said cases. So far as the present FIR is
 concerned, it was submitted that it is the case of the prosecution that an
 amount of Rs. 58,00,000/- in cash was deposited in the bank account of the
 accused company, i.e, 'BTC ADS PRO'. Deposit slips in relation to the said
 amount have been provided by the co-accused. It was submitted that the
 domain name of 'BTC ADS PRO' was created from the e-mail-id and mobile
 number of the present applicant. Learned APP submitted that the bank
 accounts, as mentioned above, were opened by the present applicant on the
 basis of IDs which were also found to be forged. It was further submitted that
 the present applicant is a flight risk. It was therefore, prayed that the present
 application be dismissed. 12. Heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the record. 13. The contention of learned counsel for the applicant that the latter has no
 role in the present FIR cannot be sustained in view of the material placed on
 record by the Investigating Officer, as discussed hereinabove. It is the clear
 from the case of the complainant that prima facie involvement of the present
 applicant in commission of the alleged offence is made out. Similarly, the
 contention of learned counsel for the applicant that the cheques taken from the
 complainant were not deposited in the account of present applicant and
 therefore he is not involved in the present case cannot be accepted. It is the
 case of the prosecution that a sum of Rs. 58,00,000/- out of the cheated BAIL APPLN. 1555/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 11 of 13 Digitally Signed By:RANJU BHALLA Signing Date:27.09.2023 17:21:51 amount was deposited in the bank accounts of the company, of which the
 present applicant was the proprietor. 14. The proposition of law laid down in the judgments relied upon by the
 learned counsel for the applicant is well settled. In P. Chidambaram v.
 Central Bureau of Investigation , (2020) 13 SCC 337, the Hon'ble Supreme
 held as under: [Vide Prahlad Singh Bhati v. State (NCT of Delhi) [Prahlad Singh
 Bhati v. State (NCT of Delhi), (2001) 4 SCC 280 : 2001 SCC (Cri)
 674] .]" 15. It has also come on record that the present applicant used identity
 documents which have been found to be forged. As pointed hereinabove, one
 of the bank accounts opened at the instance of the present applicant had three
 documents having different dates of birth. It was also pointed out that out of
 those documents, two aadhar cards bearing the same number had different
 dates of birth. The aforesaid forged documents fortify the apprehension of the
 prosecution that the applicant is a flight risk and if the present applicant is
 released on bail, he will not be available for trial. 16. In view of the aforesaid discussion, this Court is not inclined to release
 the applicant on bail at this stage. 17. The application is dismissed and disposed of accordingly. 18. Pending applications, if any, also stand disposed of. 19. Needless to state, nothing mentioned hereinabove is an opinion on the
 merits of the case. 20. Copy of the judgment be sent to the concerned Jail Superintendent for
 necessary information and compliance. 21. Judgment be uploaded on the website of this Court, forthwith. AMIT SHARMA
 JUDGE
 SEPTEMBER 27, 2023/bsr BAIL APPLN. 1555/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 13 of 13 Digitally Signed By:RANJU BHALLA Signing Date:27.09.2023 17:21:51