1. The above writ petition has been filed by the South India Salt Manufacturers Association, a registered body under the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Societies Registration Act and the Rules made thereunder, for the following relief: 2. The facts in short are as follows: The members of the petitioner- association are the licencees under the 4th respondent. The lands forming the subject matter of the writ petition situated in Athipattu Salt Factory area in Chennai, M.G.R. District are under the jurisdiction of the 4th respondent. Salt manufacture is being carried out in an extent of about 4,819 acres in and around Athipattu village by the members of the petitioner- association, for the last several decades, having taken the said lands on lease form the Government of India through the Salt Department. Salt production and allied activities form the main source of livelihood for the villagers of Athipattu and other villages situated in the vicinity of NMTPP. 3. There are about 126 small and big salt manufacturing units in and around Athipattu village, which depend upon the saline waters of the Pulicot river back waters and Buckingham Canal for salt production, the details of which are given below: Voyalur 4 1,750.43" 4,818.95 4. There were some more salt manufacturing units in the above villages. In or about 1992, several pieces of salt pan lands of the Government of India were transferred to the Tamil Nadu Electricity Board (hereinafter referred to as the Board) for the establishment of the NMTPP and the works connected therewith, as under: Consent was issued to the said unit under Water (P & C.P) Act, 1974, subject to the following conditions among other conditions - vide this office proceedings dated 7.12.1993: The unit was commissioned during December, 1995. Complaint was made by the Secretary, South India Salt Manufacturers Association against this unit stating that due to the disposal of ash slurry, nearly 5,000 acres of salt manufacturing land in that area has been affected. It has also been reported that the ash slurry mixes with the backwaters of Pulicot lake, which is a source to all salt manufacturing industries, thereby causing deposition of fly ash in the salt pans. Also he added that they are not able to get required quantity of brine from the back waters because of ash disposal. During inspection of the said area on 26.2.1996 by the District Environmental Engineer, Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board, Ambattur, it was noticed that the ash slurry was discharged on nearby lands instead of discharging the same into ash dykes. Hence, this respondent, by letter dated 8.3.1996, addressed the unit to stop forthwith the discharge of fly ash slurry outside the premises and to expedite the pipe line works for conveying the ash slurry to ash dyke and to comply with the conditions imposed by the Board. In the concluding portion of the counter-affidavit it is stated by the 3rd respondent that during inspection, the unit was instructed to completely stop the pumping of ash slurry into the adjacent land and to complete and commission the remaining pipe lines for the disposal of entire quantity of ash slurry into the ash dykes. 21. As already seen, the area in question was inspected by the Joint Chief Environmental Engineer, Madras Region and CMN District on 12.4.1996. It is seen from the report submitted that during inspection of the NMTPP, all the three units were generating 514 MW of power and that the ash slurry generated from the Thermal Power Plant has been pumped outside the thermal plant to the waste salt pan development area. It was also noticed that large accumulation of ash slurry on the waste salt land adjacent to the thermal plant. It was further noticed that the present ash slurry pumping area is located in between the Buckingham Canal and the back waters. After the inspection was over, the power plant had been instructed to follow the conditions given below: 22. Though respondents 1 and 2 have filed a counter-affidavit justifying their action, however, they admitted that the dumping of ash slurry on idle waste lands of salt departments was resorted to only as a temporary measure. It is contended that there was no salt production in that area as observed from the starting of the project work, i.e., from 1989 onwards till date. The above submission is totally incorrect in view of the counter-affidavit filed by the 4th respondent, who are the owners of the land and who leased out the same to the members of the petitioner association. There is no dispute that respondents 1 and 2 have agreed to strictly abide by the minutes of the discussion held on 26.8.1992 between the Board and the 4th respondent. However, the Board would say that dumping is being done as a temporary measure in the idle saltpan lands of around 60 acres, which is incorrect in view of the counter-affidavit filed by the 4th respondent. According to the 4th respondent, 126 units are manufacturing salt in an area of 4,818.95 acres. However, it is stated in the counter-affidavit of respondents 1 and 2 that the works of connecting bund between ash dyke and plant compound including the bridges across Buckingham Canal and back waters are completed and that the work of laying of pipe lines on the bund is nearing completion. They would further submit that already one line is made through and the other two lines will be ready within one month (originally typed as a fortnight and scored out and substituted by the words one month). After check up and test commissioning within another month (wherein also the words a fortnight has been scored and another month has been substituted), the present ad hoc arrangement of temporary dumping will be discontinued. 23. It is stated in paragraph 10 of the counter-affidavit, that the Board being a statutory organisation responsible and accountable to its functions and obligations, it has not at all deviated from its commitments made in the meeting held on 26.8.1992 at the instance of the 4th respondent and that all the works, as agreed to in the meeting and as contemplated in the system of network, are being scrupulously followed till date and continue to maintain at all costs. We have already seen that the above statement made in the counter-affidavit filed by respondents 1 and 2 is absolutely incorrect and that they have violated the commitment given by them on 26.8.1992, as could be seen from the counter-affidavits filed by respondents 3 and 4. 24. The Chief Engineer, NMTPP, has also in his counter-affidavit, had the audacity to say that the question of pollution to the natural atmosphere and natural wealth does not arise at all that the temporary storage of ash slurry in an isolated idle area does not in any way cause havoc in the day to-day life of the local people. The Chief Engineer, NMTPP, though stated that the pumping of ash slurry was resorted to only as a temporary measure; has however, stated, that the Board intends to commission the regular delivery system to lead the ash slurry into the ash dump area within two months and all efforts are put in by the Board towards this effect on a war footing. 25. In paragraph 22 of the counter-affidavit, the Chief Engineer, NMTPP, has stated as follows: 26. As I was not impressed with the counter-affidavit filed by the Chief Engineer, NMTPP, I directed the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the Board to file a counter-affidavit through its Chairman. Accordingly, an additional affidavit was filed by Mr. A.P. Muthuswami, Chairman of the Board. In paragraph 5 of the additional affidavit it is stated as follows: 27. In paragraph 8 of the additional affidavit, the Chairman of the Board has stated as follows: 28. At the time of hearing, it was argued by the learned Counsel for the petitioner, that since the dumping of ash slurry on the lands held by the members of the petitioner- association is admitted, respondents I and 2 should be forthwith restrained from dumping, any further ash slurry on the lands in question. It was also suggested that Unit Nos. 1 and 2 are using coal as the raw material while Unit No. 3 is using only oil for manufacture of electricity and therefore, respondents 1 and 2 should be directed to use the oil alone which will stop the dumping of ash slurry. It is argued on behalf of respondents 1 and 2 that the use of oil to run Unit No. 3 is a costly option and that the optimum capacity of the unit could be achieved only by coal fire, which is also very much cheaper when compared to oil firing and hence this option not only to avail the huge savings in public money but also to feed the power grid with the maximum power output so as to balance the ever increasing demand. 29. I see much force in the contention of Mr. A.L. Somayaji, learned Senior Counsel appearing for respondents 1 and 2. In the additional affidavit filed by the Chairman of the Board, he has clearly stated that two pipe lines have been completed, out of which one is already discharging the ash slurry into the ash dyke from the last week of March, 1996 and that certain finishing works in respect of the third pipe line are to be completed, which includes crossing of railway track, for which necessary permission and line clearance for traction are to be obtained from Railway Authority, and therefore, the balance work including the check up and test commissioning will be completed within a period of eight weeks. He also stated that when once the laying of third pipe line is completed, the Board will be discharging ash slurry into the ash dyke pond which has already been constructed in the land allotted to them and hence the whole system is devoid of pollution problem. 30. The learned Counsel for the petitioner objected to the grant of eight weeks' time, pointing out the counter-affidavit filed by the Chief Engineer, NMTPP, wherein he only asked for a month's time. I am of the view, that the grant of eight weeks' time is on the high side. To the suggestion made by the court that the Board at least can now switch on to the use of oil till the completion of the work, the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the Board, after discussion with the officials present in court, agreed to complete the balance work in all respects on a war footing within a period of three weeks. The undertaking given by the learned Senior Counsel Mr. A.L. Somayaji in court is recorded. Respondents 1 and 2, shall, therefore, complete the pending balance work in all respects within three weeks from to-day positively. Respondents 1 and 2 shall not discharge the ash slurry into the salt lands in the North Madras Belt, viz., Athipattu South, Athipattu North, Thillai and Vallur Salt Factory areas and also in the back waters of Pulicot lake and Buckingham Canal, on the expiry of three weeks' time now granted. The work should be done by the respondents 1 and 2 on a war footing. The respondents shall also remove the ashes already dumped in the salt pan lands and also clear the ashes dumped in the Pulicot river within three weeks from today as undertaken by them. Further, respondents 1 and 2 shall adhere to the instructions viz., Instruction Nos. 1 to 9 given in the inspection report of the Joint Chief Environmental Engineer, Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board, dated 12.4.1996. I make it clear that after the expiry of the three weeks time now granted, respondents 1 and 2 should discharge the slurry ash only in the dyke. 31. The problem of environmental pollution is a social problem affecting, as it does, the society at large. The transformation from the a laissez faire societies to the socialistic pattern of societies imposes a number of obligations on the State and the State is saddled with heavy responsibility of eradication of social hazards and social evils and ensurance of social justice to every citizen of the country and it cannot be gainsaid that the solution of the problems regarding environmental pollution is one of the most important social problems that a nation is called upon to face. The developed countries of the world have had to meet this challenge for some time past and necessary legislations were passed by them to prevent and control the problem from time to time. 32. Article 48-A of the Constitution casts a duty on the State to endeavour to protect and improve the environment and to safeguard the forests and wild life of the country. Article 51-A of the Constitution specifically deals with the fundamental duties of every citizen to abide by the Constitution and respect its ideals and institutions. It also provides that it shall be the duty of every citizen to protect and improve the natural environment including forest, lakes, rivers and wild life and to have compassion for living creatures. 33. It is in this context that a three day workshop on 'ash ponds and ash disposal systems' held at New Delhi recently assumes importance. The aim of that programme organised by the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi, in association with the Fly Ash Mission of the Technology Information, Fore-casting and Assessment Council under the Union Department of Science and Technology, is to disseminate information on state-of-the-art technologies and facilitate exchange of field-level experiences. In all, about 150 scientists, engineers and Ors. engaged in the management of the ash ponds and disposal systems, participated in the workshop. With the number of coal-based thermal power stations in different parts of the country increasing, the problem of disposal of 'fly ash' generated as a waste by them is also assuming gigantic proportions. It is estimated that about 100 million tonnes of fly ash would be produced a year by the end of the century, posing a major threat to environmental safety. A finely divided residue resulting from the combustion of coal, with the particles size ranging from as much as 120 microns to less than 5 micron in diameter, the fly ash is so light that it gets air-borne very fast and pollute the atmosphere. While in human beings, continuous inhalation of the generally gray coloured, and abrasive and acidic particles can cause silicosis, fibrosis of lungs, bronchitis and pneumonitis, its deposition may affect horticulture and its disposal into sea, rivers and other water bodies damage the aquatic life cycles. It can also corrode surfaces of structures. It has been calculated that the existing 75 thermal power stations alone need about 50,000 acres of precious land for disposal of the fly ash during their life span of 30 years and that the annual expenditure on road transportation merely for dumping it came to about Rs. 50 crores. 34. Environmental pollution now constitutes one of the biggest hazards. It is the biggest hazard not only to human existence but also to the existence of all the gifts that nature has so kindly bestowed on mankind. Heavy industrialisation and ever-increasing urbanisation have resulted in the problem assuming staggering proportions. Unless immediate and urgent steps are taken to put a stop to the environmental pollution, a very bleak and terrible future awaits the humanity. 35. For the foregoing reasons, the writ petition is allowed as indicated above viz., respondents 1 and 2 shall complete all the pending balance work in all respects within three weeks from to-day positively. They shall also remove the ashes already dumped in the salt pan lands belonging to the Salt Department, and also clear the ashes dumped in the Pulicot river within three weeks from to-day and that thereafter, they shall not discharge the ash slurry into the salt lands in the North Madras Belt Areas and also in the back waters of Pulicot lake and in the Buckingham Canal. No costs. Consequently, W.M.P. No. 4912 of 1996 is dismissed as no longer necessary.