an> 

 

Title: Discussion on the Demands for Excess Grants in respect of Budget (2004-05) and Demands for Supplementary Grants (General) for 2006-07. MR. CHAIRMAN: Now, we will take up Item Nos. 24 and 25 relating to the Demands for Excess Grants (General) for 2004-2005, and the Supplementary Demands for Grants (General) for 2006-2007. THE MINISTER OF FINANCE ( SHRI P. CHIDAMBARAM ): Sir, I have placed before the House the second batch of Supplementary Demands for Grants for 2006-2007.[r39]  

The total authorization that is sought for is for Rs.21,823.92 crore for which the cash outgo is only Rs.11,444.76 crore. The remainder are technical Supplementaries. I will just take a couple of minutes to explain the reasons for the cash outgo. Of the total cash outgo of Rs.11,444 crore, an amount of Rs.10,738 crore, that is about 94 per cent, is cash outgo on four items. Firstly, transfers to State, that is Rs.4,131.91 crore. This includes Rs.2,100 crore for Normal Central Assistance for State Plans, Rs.436 crore for Special Central Assistance for State Plans, mainly for assistance to Jammu and Kashmir for reforms in the power sector; Rs.900 crore for the National Social Assistance Programme because as the House is aware we have raised the pension from Rs.75 to Rs.200 per month; and Rs.195 crore for grants to States, upgradation of services and special problems, and for payment of incentives to States related to the fiscal reforms facility. Normal Central Assistance is released to various States on the basis of the Gadgil-Mukherjee Formula and provides an important component of the Central Assistance for the States’ Annual Plans. An additionality of Rs.2,100 crore  has been proposed for this item in the second batch of Supplementary Demands. Allocation for NCA is based on the assessment for fund requirement keeping in view the absorptive capacity of the States. Additional funds are now required as an amount of Rs.885 crore due for release last year was released in the first quarter of the current financial year and upon an assessment of further additionality based on expenditure trends in the current year. For the power sector in Jammu and Kashmir, the State Government projected its requirement. An amount of Rs.500 crore  is provided in the first batch of Supplementary Demands and now I am providing another Rs.436 crore. For the National Social Assistance Programme, because we have increased the old age pension from Rs.75 to Rs.200, we are providing Rs.1,430 crore. Now, Rs.900 crore is being provided. Claims of certain States for upgradation and incentive grants related to the Eleventh Finance Commission have been under consideration. We have received the utilization certificates. Therefore, that money is being provided. Additional transfer of Rs.500 crore from NCCF has been necessitated due to several natural calamities and that is also being provided. The second major head is fertilizer subsidy. I am seeking Rs.3,700 crore as additional amount of fertilizer subsidy. There has been an increase in overall consumption of fertilizers. We are likely to import 50 lakh metric tonnes of urea vis-à-vis the import of 20 lakh metric tonnes last year.  Prices of imported fertilizers have also been volatile. In the first batch of Supplementary, we asked for an additional provision of Rs.2,100 crore and now we are asking Rs.4,400 crore of which Rs.700 crore will be matched by recoveries, the cash outgo will be Rs.3,700 crore. The third major head is interest relief to farmers. Rs.1, 359 crore is being asked to provide interest relief to the 31 Districts of Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Karnataka and Maharashtra which have been identified as suicide-prone. Rs.1000 crore has been asked to provide interest subvention of two per cent to commercial banks, RRBs and now cooperative societies. So, that makes it Rs.2,359 crore. Finally, we are asking for Rs.547 crore for the Central paramilitary forces and the Delhi Police. At the time of seeking Parliament’s approval for the first batch, I had assured the House that the additionalities likely to be set off by savings arising during the course of the financial year. Revised Estimates are still under formulation.[r40]  

            Revised Estimates are still under formulation.  However, based upon robust revenue collection, I am confident that despite additional cash outgo, I will be able to meet the fiscal deficit as well as revenue deficit target for the current year.  So, I would request the House to discuss and to approve the Supplementary Demands for Grants. As far as 2004-05 is concerned, there are some excess grants.  Therefore, I move the demands for excess grants – these are minor demands – for Department of Posts – Rs.5 lakh, for Ministry of Defence – Rs.71 lakh, for Department of Urban Development – Rs.25 lakh. The excess under the Voted Section pertained to Defence Ordnance Factories  Rs.40 crore, and DRDO  Rs.1.99 crore which requires regularization. I would request, Sir, the House to discuss these Demands for Grants and pass them. MR. CHAIRMAN : Motions moved: I will come to the next point – the role of the Government. This is a moribund Government.  This is a Government kept motionless by the crippling stings of its own allies. [r41]  

  

  

           It is a very surprising thing that most of the steps taken by this Government on economic reforms are being opposed by its own allies.  Take the case of the Pension Fund Regulatory Authority Bill or the Banking Regulation (Amendment) Act .  In this Act the cap on maximum 10 per cent voting right by a share holder has been removed.  The Standing Committee on Finance had already cleared these two Bills more than one year ago.  Still, the Government is so helpless that it is incapable of carrying its own allies and incapable of presenting this on the floor of the House.  This shows the real character and the real strength of this UPA Government. I am very surprised to see what sort of allies are the Leftists who day-in-day-out blackmail this Government.  They say one thing in West Bengal and say exactly the other here.  Now, they say that for the Special Economic Zones… (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN : Nothing, except what Shri Swain says, will go on record. (Interruptions) … * 

MR. CHAIRMAN: Do not record anything except what Shri Swain says. (Interruptions) …* 

SHRI KHARABELA SWAIN : All the time the Left has been demanding that for the Special Economic Zones no fertile land should be taken from the farmers.  On the contrary, what are they doing in West Bengal?  In West Bengal three-four crops fertile land in Singur is being given to Tatas.… (Interruptions) They are the people who speak in forked  tongues and follow double standards.  The other day, the CPM Leader had brought a Calling Attention, just two Sessions before, objecting to the displacement in Kalinga Nagar in Orissa.  They themselves had brought a Calling Attention asking why there was a firing in Kalinga Nagar in Orissa and why the adivasis were kept out of that place?  What were they doing in West Bengal?  The same proletariate people… (Interruptions) * Not recorded 
 MR. CHAIRMAN: Let him speak. … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: As I have stated earlier, nothing, except what Shri Swain says, will go on record. (Interruptions) …* 

MR. CHAIRMAN: You can refute his allegations when your turn comes. … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: Shri Swain, please speak on the Demand. … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: Nothing will go on record. (Interruptions) …* 

SHRI KHARABELA SWAIN : He is a good friend of mine.  I will not make any comment.  He knows very well that he cannot make me sit down. MR. CHAIRMAN: Please speak on the Demand. SHRI KHARABELA SWAIN : Sir, I am speaking only on the Supplementary Demand and nothing else. This is how the Left Parties speak in forked tongues.  दिल्ली में दोस्ती, बंगाल में कुश्ती। So this is how they behave.  I very strongly object to that.  I would request the hon. Finance Minster that if he really wants India to become a super-power by 2020, he should bring in reforms.  He should not go by the Leftists because they are a thoroughly confused lot.  They will never allow him to do anything.  That is why, I just appeal to him that generally the Government should be very strong and it should not go by the pressure that is being exerted by the Leftists. Now I come to the point of suicides committed by the farmers which is a very important point.  When this Government was formed, I remember in his first Budget Speech, the hon. Minister said on this very floor that it is only because the rural credit is not being available to the farmers, they are going to the money 

   
 

* Not recorded 

lenders who are lending money at a very high rate of interest and  that is the main reason due to which so many farmers are committing suicide.  So, he made a commitment that he will double the rural credit in three years and mostly he has succeeded.  I am not objecting to that.  But there is another stipulation which is not being met by the commercial banks.  The stipulation is that 18 per cent of the net bank credit should go to the agricultural sector.  The hon. Minister knows that the two-thirds of the banks have not attained it.  If this is the stipulation and the mandatory provision, why should the commercial banks not attain this?  Even the biggest banks like the State Bank of India’s rural credit is not 18 per cent.  It is only around 15 per cent.  It is virtually a Government bank and the Government bank has year in and year out failed to achieve it.  So, I shall appeal to the hon. Minister to take steps so that all the commercial banks achieve it.  If one-third banks have attained it the other two-thirds also should be able to do it. Let us come to the point of inflation.  It is 4.51 per cent and just two weeks back it was the highest in the last 18 months.  Specifically, the price of the food grains which are only for the common man, the aam admi has gone up.  The Reserve Bank of India because they are so concerned about the inflation have taken a decision of just hiking the Cash Reserve Ratio (CRR) from 5 to 5.5 per cent.  The Reserve Bank said that it will suck Rs.13,500 crore liquidity from the market but the Reserve Bank also expects that it will push up the interest rate also.   If the interest rate goes up, it will hurt.  So, I would appeal to the hon. Finance Minister that he should tell us what are the steps that he would take in future so that the interest rate does not go up.  Take the example of Sensex also.  Just one week before it touched the record mark of 14,000 points and  a news item appeared on the same day in the Times of India which said, “correction may be just round the corner, says experts.”  The very day the economic experts said that this record is going to fall.  Yesterday only, it has fallen by 400 points.  In one day only, the investors have lost Rs.1.08 lakh crore.  That is why, actually the correction which was very much anticipated just one week before has taken place.  So, I would like to ask the hon. Minister this. Are the stocks overpriced?  It seems the stocks are actually overpriced.[R42]  

            Is the Indian economy over-heated? All the economists are saying the same thing that the 14,000 points rise in sensex is an abnormal phenomenon, this is an artificial phenomenon and it is not real. This is happening because the economy is over-heated. I would like to know from the hon. Minister whether my point is correct or not. Sir, I would make another two or three points and then I would conclude. My next point is about time and cost escalation in the implementation of projects. There has been a cost over-run of around Rs. 31,500 crore and because of time escalation and cost escalation new projects are not going to be completed.  I would like to appeal to the hon. Minister to see to it that there is no cost escalation and there should not be any time over-run. My next point is about the IPO scam. The hon. Minister, two days back, was talking about SEBI’s disgorgement order. I would like to know as to how this disgorged shares are to be distributed and amongst whom are they going to be distributed.  If SEBi has given such an order, then amongst whom would those be distributed? Who would take that decision? This is what I would like to know from the hon. Minister. The hon. Minister also talked about subsidy on fertilizers. Now, is this giving of subsidy to fertilizers a part of the reform process? I am a strong votary of the reforms process. But even when the NDA was in power, I very strongly objected to giving subsidy to fertilizers. This is because it is not going to the farmers but it is benefiting the fertilizer industry. They raise the price artificially, the cost of production goes up and then they swindle away with the subsidy. I shall appeal to the hon. Finance Minister that he should look into this aspect and see if this subsidy given to fertilizer is really benefiting the farmers or the companies that are producing fertilizers. Sir, with regard to the Universal Health Insurance Scheme for the BPL, I would like to point out that the Government has provided some funds to this Scheme through the Supplementary Budget. There is a scheme called the Janashree Bima Yojana under which the beneficiary has to pay a sum of Rs. 100/- per year and another Rs. 100/- is provided by the Development Fund created by the LIC. There are some States who are providing this amount of Rs. 100/- for the beneficiary, the poorest of the poor people. I would like to appeal to him, through you, if this Government could do the same thing of providing this sum of Rs. 100/- for the poorest of the poor, the people belonging to the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes because they are incapable of even paying a sum of Rs. 100/- per year to avail of this scheme. They call it a Government for the aam admi and since the revenue collection is very high and the economy is buoyant, this Government should be able to do this for the poorest of the poor people of our country. Sir, my next point is about the construction of six AIIMS like institutions in the country. For the last two years this issue has been discussed under several Calling Attention notices and such other things and every time the hon. Health Minister had been saying that the construction is about to start in three to six months. Where has the construction started? During the time of the NDA, the then hon. Prime Minister, Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee went to Bhubaneswar and laid the foundation stone some two and a half years ago but since then no work has been done on the site.[R43]  

Not a single work has started.  They only said that they have constructed a boundary wall and they are showing that boundary wall to the people of Orissa that the construction of the All India Institute of Medical Science has started. If the hon. Minister really says that this Government is for aam admi, then he should see to it that construction work is started immediately. He said that a lot of money is provided under the National Calamity Contingency Fund.  The State of Orissa has demanded more than Rs. 2000 crore as flood relief.  How much has been given to Orissa?  It is that only Rs. 175 crore has been sanctioned as advance and they have actually given Rs. 25 crores to Orissa.  This is the way Orissa is being treated.  It is because it is not ruled by the Congress Party and since it is having a Government from the NDA, this step-motherly treatment is being shown by the UPA Government.  So, I would say that in a democracy, it is not that the same party will be ruling everywhere.  Different parties rule in different States and so, I would appeal to the Minister that he should look to the interests of the people of Orissa.  I know that Rs. 2000 crore will not be given.  But a reasonable amount should be sanctioned.  At least Rs. 500 crore should be given.  The Central Committee  has gone to Orissa and it has seen the devastation caused in Orissa.  I would appeal to the Minister that he should look into the matter. I have two more points to mention.  Several times, I have raised this matter.  The hon. Finance Minister is a very intelligent lawyer and he will show many rules, regulations and calculations. I want to mention about the National Highway Projects and particularly about the Golden Quadrilateral.   He will say that during the time of the NDA Government, it was 42 per cent and now, it is 44 per cent.  So, both put together come to 86 per cent.  Thus only about 15 per cent of the work is left to be completed.  But let him see the reports in the newspapers and magazines which are published.  They are saying that the work in the Golden  Quadrilateral and the National Highway Project has come to a crawl.  The India Today has published it.  Let us not be misled by this feeling or by this calculation that this Government is doing an excellent and brilliant work. It is not working.  Really speaking, the pace of work is very slow.    I would appeal to the hon. Minister that he should not go by statistics and that he should himself go and see whether it is crawling or running. My last point is, the Government is talking about disinvestment of several public sector units.  Is it true?   Why is it coming up time and again before the Cabinet for a decision to be taken? Once it comes up, they are flying kites and trying to know which way the wind is blowing.  Then immediately there will be opposition from the Left and everything will become silent.  I would like to know from the hon. Minister as to whether they are going in for economic reforms by going in for disinvestment of public sector undertakings. MR. CHAIRMAN:  Shri K.S. Rao, are you speaking from your seat? SHRI K.S. RAO ( ELURU ):  Sir, I seek your permission. MR.CHAIRMAN:  All right. SHRI K.S. RAO :   Sir, I heard the speech of Shri Swain with rapt attention.  By virtue of being in Opposition, naturally they will have to criticize the ruling party and by nature also, my friend, Shri Swain, is a very good critic.  I have seen him many a time that he is good at criticism but sometimes his Party comes into his mind. He was speaking about aam admi.    I have never heard of the BJP speaking about aam admi so long as they were in power. [MSOffice44]  

            Let me answer. Let me see what this Government has done to aam aadmi.  I agree with him on one count. I am also of the same opinion that 70 per cent of the people are living in the rural areas and unless the living standards of the people living in the rural areas were to increase, the country cannot prosper. Unless their purchasing power goes up, the industry cannot flourish because there will not be any person to purchase the industrial goods which are manufactured in abundance. So, I support that part of it. Keeping those things in view, the present UPA Government has changed its total attitude towards the rural areas, particularly the farming community and the BPL families. He himself has agreed that the credit to the agricultural sector is doubled in the last two years and three months. It is not only doubled but also the interest rate has come down to 7 per cent which used to be very high earlier.… (Interruptions) SHRI KHARABELA SWAIN :  What about the cooperatives? THE MINISTER OF FINANCE ( SHRI P. CHIDAMBARAM ):  For the cooperatives also, it is 7 per cent.  You may ask your Chief Minister.… (Interruptions) SHRI K.S. RAO : Similarly, when all of us, including you, were to go to the villages, we can see the poor people, who are in the age of 12 right up to 65, are living in huts, thatched houses where the rain falls directly into their houses and even in the thatched houses. In such a dilapidated condition when they are living in, when their own children are not in a position to feed them, take care of them, and when most of them are living like orphans, as Members of Parliament, all of us have brought forward a Resolution here that  even if we are not to complete the full term of five years, we must be paid pension for life time. Surprisingly, I understand even if Parliament were to stay for one day, Members of Parliament are eligible to pension. What is the claim? When the poor people belonging to BPL, who are living in the villages, having worked for 65 years, who are not in a state to feed themselves and living like orphans, are they not eligible to pension? So, this Government has thought of that aspect and brought forward pension.  Who took care of the aam aadmi?  This Government took  care of the aam aadmi. Apart from this, the third one is the performance of the Self Help Groups. These days, particularly women  are there as members. I do not know about other States.  About my State, I can say with pride that a sum of Rs.3500 crore was given to the Self Help Groups in the States. During the earlier Government, it was not even Rs.200-300 crore. In my own place, in one district, Rs.350 crore was given to 44,000 Self Help Groups. We must see the glow on the face of the women when taking the assistance. Apart from reduction of interest by the Government of India, the Andhra Pradesh Government has given further reduction by way of subsidizing interest.  We are providing loans to SHS at three per cent rate of interest. We are empowering women.  They take this loan with courage, confidence and pride and they are increasing their income. It is to be seen to be believed. It is not by saying this thing that we can understand it. I will now point out some more things. Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan is there. Sir, Rs.11,000 crore was allotted to education  particularly to the poor people in the rural areas. We see the Mid-Day Meal Scheme, improving the ambience, giving sanction for the schools. There also, I have something to say. I will tell it once again. What is required today?  The only best instrument for a poor man to come up in his life or to change his living standard is education. Even by  working round the clock, sweating all his life time, we have seen with our own experience that they are not in a position to purchase even a house plot. They are not in a position to construct even one small house. Even today, they are asking for a ration card. Today, they are asking for pension. In such a situation, there is a lot that we have to do.  So, this Government has realized that and I am happy that it has done certain things. It is there in the Press news.[R45]  

I am happy to hear that this Government in the Eleventh Five Year Plan is thinking of allotting more and more funds to take care of the rural areas and the farming community.  That means, there is a radical change in the thinking and realization that the rural areas and the poorer sections of the society are to be taken care of.  So, that way, my friend’s statement that this Government, the UPA Government, is not taking care of aam aadmi is only because he belongs to the Opposition Party. As far as 18 per cent interest is concerned –both of us are parties –we heard about it from the bankers. I do support him in this aspect but the reason what the bankers give is that they are adhering to the percentage because there are incremental deposits in the current year; every time they are not able to cope up with disbursing the funds overnight to the sections. There is a slight gap but I certainly support him and I also request the hon. Minister to give something more, if necessary, to the agriculture community and the poorer sections of the society and ensure that percentage is given. At this point, I have also similar request to the hon. Prime Minister though I belong to the Ruling Party.  Whenever we go to the villages, we find that there are natural calamities, be it due to flood or cyclone or drought or due to whatever reason and, consequently, there is crop failure and they ask for money.  When an industrialist loses –for example there was a fire accident in Reliance Refinery – he has everything compensated by insurance.  He is not at loss.  But the poor farmer – not only he but also his wife and his children also –works round the clock.  When the crop is ready, he prays that this time he would get 40 bags of grains per acre.  Suddenly for no fault of his, when cyclone or flood comes, his entire crop is spoiled.  He is not responsible for it.  When the industrialist or a trader is being compensated through some scheme of insurance, is he not eligible to any compensation?  Why are we delaying it?  I am proud that this scheme was brought for the first time in this country by Shri Rajiv Gandhi in this Parliament.  But, I do not know what apprehensions are coming in the way.  The unit of mandal is not doing justice to the farmer.  On our request or possibly on his own understanding and experience the Agriculture Minister has promised that he will take village as a unit in deciding about paying the compensation to the farmers.  But, my request to the hon. Minister – I have also made my own calculations – is that it can be based on an individual farmer.  I have seen that in some of the mandals, as per the present guidelines, some people in Hyderabad have taken a decision that on random basis, the survey number of the land having the crop cutting experiment, must be taken.  Suppose, by chance, out of the 20 villages in a mandal, the survey number were to go in a land where the crop is very good, the entire mandal is gone.  Where there is no such thing; out of 20 villages, suppose 4 villages are affected and the rest 16 are good.  If the crop cutting experiment were to go into the land where the crop is affected, all the 16 villages where the crops is good would also be getting benefit.  So, my point here is this.  I would like to request the hon. Minister to get it surveyed, to get it analysed that if the crop insurance scheme were to be applied on the basis of the individual farmer, that farmer who has suffered a lot will get benefit.  It does not mean that the entire mandal is to be paid or the entire village is to be paid.  All that we are asking is that the affected farmer must be paid; he must be compensated.  I am hundred per cent confident that it will not be a substantial amount.  Maybe the fear is that the MRO or the local politician will make a false list of the farmers who have not lost.  Let them put a condition that the penalty should be very heavy if the claim was to be faulty, if it were to be wrong claim.  We cannot deprive the farmer who has suffered.[r46]    

            So, we must find a way and bring a scheme effectively to see that all those farmers individually are compensated for the loss that they have suffered.  Sir, I would request the hon. Minister to give a serious thought to it immediately because we are not in a position to answer any farmer on this. As we all know, basic things such as food grains and other ration items are being covered through the Public Distribution System.  It is going on very well in our State.  Then comes housing.  That also is being taken care of.  Now, liberally houses are being built.  In Andhra Pradesh, we also increased the amount, under the Indira Awas Yojana, from Rs. 25,000 to Rs. 33,000.  We are also giving extra loan through self-help groups even if it costs more than Rs. 33,000.  That way, it is being taken care of. Thirdly, we have taken care of education.  Then comes the health care, and if a poor man has got suddenly some ailment and if he were to go to the Government hospital, he will not get the right treatment because he is a poor man.  If he wants to go to the private hospital or a corporate hospital, he cannot afford to foot the bill.  So, my request to the hon. Minister is this.  Under the Health Insurance Scheme, all the family members have to be covered at least to an extent of Rs. 25,000 on health in a year per family.  Some people may say that there will be false claims.  You punish people who make wrong claims.  You must have stringent measures to punish them.  With a fear that some false claims will come and then the amount will be substantial, will you not continue this Scheme?  Having allowed the private sector to come into the health insurance, they will take care of all the false claims.  They will be vigilant.  They will not pay so easily unless it is a right claim. There are some people who say that there must be involvement of poor people and they must contribute at least Rs. 10 or Rs. 20 or Rs. 30, and without their involvement, it will not be a successful scheme.  I partly agree with them. Today, there is a scheme from the Government of India and under that scheme if they pay Rs. 100 they will get reimbursement of all their claims.  Sir, many people in the villages are not in a position to pay even Rs. 100.  My request is this.  Suppose we start with total payment of this amount from the Government of India or it is shared by the State Government, and if it were to be applied for one or two years initially, then people will come to know what kind of benefits they are getting through the Health Insurance Scheme.  Further, they will be motivated to pay, if necessary, that amount of Rs. 100 and then take the benefits.  So, I would request the hon. Minister to bring this Health Insurance Scheme particularly to the BPL families  and, if possible, extend it later to the farmers. Sir, I have seen the Supplementary Demands for Grants.  Most of them are on this line – it is for education or for giving relief to those affected by cyclone or for giving relief to the families of those farmers who had committed suicides or for giving relief on interest or for providing fertilizer subsidy. Sir, I have a point which I was harping at my mind for quite a long time.  I do not understand why the budgetary support be given to the economic Ministries.  Why should the Petroleum Ministry be given the budgetary support?  Why should the Railway Ministry be given the budgetary support?  Why should the Mines Ministry be given the budgetary support?  So, these Ministries must earn money on their own because we have given them a lot of capital assets.  For example, Railways have got assets worth crores of rupees.  If I take a loan of Rs. 10,00,000 for purchase of a motor vehicle for my own use; I have to pay interest on that loan; I have to pay tax on the vehicle; I have to repay the loan; I have pay income tax, and then I have to earn money.   So, what is the responsibility of the Ministry of Railways?  What is the responsibility of the Petroleum Ministry?  What is the responsibility of similar Ministries?  Well, crores of rupees worth assets are given to them, and it is their responsibility to earn money, and then give it to the Budget.  This money that we are collecting must go to the rural people.[R47]  

            It must go to the welfare; it must go to the health care; it must go to the education sector; and it must go  to the infrastructure development in the rural areas in connecting villages to villages.  These are the minimum things. The highways and the ports do not require any budgetary support from the Government.  They can be through BOT or NOT. There are people now in the corporate sector. They are not necessarily to be from the multinational companies.  Even Indian corporate sectors can do it without even one rupee budgetary support in this matter. So, I want the hon. Minister and the Government to think in these terms; and not  allocate money to those economic Ministries.  They should allocate the money entirely for these sectors, which I mentioned. I hope, my hon. Friend, Mr. Suresh Prabhu would mention about the linking of rivers. Linking of rivers in our country is one of the major things.  Today, we are prepared to spend thousands of crores of rupees on calamities, from the Calamity Relief Funds, and on compensations etc.  But by doing so, still we would not be able to cover the entire loss suffered by the people. Similarly, thousands of TMC of water is going as waste into the sea; into Brahmaputra, Godavari and other rivers.  If we could construct more and more dams; complete irrigation projects; and if necessary connect these rivers, how much amount of benefit we would get?  If all theses things are done, we would not require to support people for calamities, we would not need to pay any compensation to them and we would not need to pay for repair of roads, buildings, electricity etc.  On the contrary, we would be building greenery; we would be giving drinking water to every village; and we would be bringing crores of hectares of land into cultivation.  There would not be any necessity also for crop insurance schemes.   Tomorrow, water would be available in an ample and assured manner to the farming community. But the Government is scared.   Once we say that all this requires Rs. 5,70,000 crore, then  they would throw the paper in the dustbin.  My point here is that even for linking of rivers, the Government does not need to give the entire Rs. 6 lakh crore. They must make the Act in such a manner that the farmers also would participate in it; and then the multinationals and corporate sector can come in; they can use their money and complete the projects.  So, initially, the Government may have to provide only a few crores of rupees for it to start the work and then give motivation to the investors. That way, we can solve several of the problems. MR. CHAIRMAN :  How much time would you take to finish your speech? SHRI K.S. RAO :  Sir, within three to four minutes I would conclude my speech. Next point is about the remunerative price.  Now, surprisingly, as long as the grains are in the hands of the farmers, the prices would be very low.  But the moment, all these products go to the traders, the prices would be sky high.  For example, chilli.  This year, as long as the chilli was in the hands of the farming community, its price per quintal was just Rs. 3000 and odd.  But now, in a span of two to three months, when all the materials have gone into the hands of the traders, its price shoot up to Rs.7,500!  Who is getting benefited? All of us know. Similar is the position about the essential commodities.  A lot of traders would, in anticipation, purchase a huge stock and keep it with them and then create artificial scarcity.  In the meantime, they would say that there is a shortage of food grains.  Then, the Government will go in for import.  They would pay more prices for imports; and they would not pay same price to the local producers. So, some vision must be there; a long thinking must be there.  Unless it becomes inevitable, import of food grains should not resorted to by the Government. When they import, then the price would come down. Then, there would be surplus; and the farmers would not go in for that crop at all. Then, again prices would go once again.  It would be a vicious circle.  So instead, why should not the Government provide the Price Stabilization Fund? Whenever there is a shortage, the Price Stabilization Fund may help the farmers?  This way, farmers would also be motivated. Similarly, supposing the Government was to come to know that there was going to be a shortage of wheat or pulses, as in the morning, the Minister of Commerce was telling. There are ample number of farmers here.  What was said in the morning is not correct.  Now, our farmers are ready to produce oilseeds, in abundance.  Technology is available; otherwise, we can have the technology.  About the pulses, it is not necessarily that the farmers would raise the pulses crop only in the rain-fed areas.[r48]   

 16.00 hrs.      

It can be raised anywhere. So, there must be support from the Government through policies and through Stabilisation Fund, which, if it is kept ready, will help them. So, with proper planning, all these things can be taken care of. It is a pity that we import foodgrains even today from foreign countries where they have got a lot of capacity to produce. My last point is that above all, this country cannot prosper unless the skills of the people are improved. How can wealth be generated if the people are not skilled? We are producing millions of MA, BA, BSc graduates and engineers. In fact, they do not know anything practically. When they come out of life, they can learn. Now, in software technology we all dub that we are number one in the world and we are pathfinders in software technology. Today it is once again a pity that there is shortage of real competent people in software technology. The unfortunate thing is that the software companies in India are trying to recruit skilled people from China. It is pathetic. So, I want the Government to concentrate and allocate more funds and change the system of education. You change it to vocationalisation and skill development. If we were to make these skilled people in large number, automatically, wealth will be generated and they do not need to bother. The Finance Minister does not need to break his head to increase the GDP growth rate from 8-9 per cent or 9-10 per cent and all that. Automatically, it will come to 14 per cent. So, I request the hon. Minister to allocate more funds in these areas than in the areas where we were allocating earlier. MR. CHAIRMAN : I have received a request from hon. Member, Shri Suresh Prabhu that he has to leave. So, I may call him to speak. Mr. Prabhu, you are permitted to speak for only 10 minutes. SHRI SURESH PRABHAKAR PRABHU ( RAJAPUR ): I will try to finish as early as possible. You give me 15 minutes. MR. CHAIRMAN: Your Party has only five minutes. I will give another five minutes. So, you take 10 minutes’ time. SHRI SURESH PRABHAKAR PRABHU : Sir, I thank you as well as the Members of the House for permitting me to speak out of turn. This is a discussion on Supplementary Demands for Grants (General). It has been brought by a Government which has completed two-and-a-half years in office. So, it is actually a mid-term appraisal of the Government’s performance and also the mid-term appraisal of the Budget which was presented to the Parliament last year. I wish the Finance Minister was here. He presented the statement and he went somewhere. I do not know where he has gone. I wish he were here. The report card of the Government as well as the appraisal of the Budget itself is a subject matter, really speaking, when we are discussing the Supplementary Demands for Grants. Why? It is because the economy, which is growing at a rate of about eight per cent plus, could have grown even faster, if some of the structural issues that are confronting the economy were addressed by the Government. I can understand if these issues were not known to the Government. The issues have been identified and  have been talked about but no action has been taken. I can understand if a doctor has not been able to diagnose the patient, but having diagnosed him, not giving the medicine is a very dangerous thing. This is what, unfortunately, I would think has happened with this Government. The Finance Minister talked about banking reforms. I remember one day he said—it was a Saturday—that early next week I am going to come out with a blue-print for banking sector development and reforms. He rightly talked about consolidation of banks because our largest bank, the State Bank of India, is not even, probably, among the first 50 top banks of the world. So, he rightly talked about consolidation of the banks. The Prime Minister rightly talked about administrative reforms, and I agree with him. Nobody could agree with  him more than me that administrative reforms are really called for and overdue. Unfortunately, for the last two-and-a-half years, after having talked about we have not heard anything about these two issues. Again, the Planning Commission Deputy-Chairman was going to look into how to create a regulatory framework for improvement of infrastructure investment. Who will not agree with him that the country is crying for investment in infrastructure? Private sector participation is inevitable because public money is not enough and they will not come in unless the sector, which is dominated by public sector organisations, also makes way for them in a regulatory framework and allows that organisation to function. I have not heard anything on that. The other issue is of forex management. We are all saying that we have got US $ 150 billion of foreign exchange reserves in the country. We have never discussed the management of foreign exchange reserves in the Parliament. The RBI is entrusted with the task of managing it. We should know how they are managing it and whether we are not losing anything. Every time the RBI enters the market, it buys dollars to make sure that the dollar reserves are mopped up and the rupee is not allowed to fall. It is not allowed to fall to the benefit of the exporters. I can appreciate all this. But we should know whether as a result of this, we are losing any money and whether it is something which is a drain on our resources. Since the RBI is doing this, it should be known to us how they are doing it. They are changing the monetary polices, fiscal policies and administrative policies to arrest inflation to begin with, but to also bring in overall economic development is something which the Government talked about. I have not heard anything about it thereafter. Now, I come to foreign direct investment. Last year, China got US $ 60 billion of foreign direct investment. When you get FDI into your country, actually you are tapping the savings of other country into your own country and that hastens the development. The UPA Government in their National Common Minimum Programme talked about US $ 40 billion of FDI. Now two and a half years have passed. We would like to know what progress has been made in attracting FDI. What has really happened to all the issues which they had talked about earlier? I was hoping that we would be discussing the issue of SEZ in the Parliament. This is a good idea. China has implemented it very successfully. The way the Government has managed it, a good product has really been spoiled and a good concept has been maligned. As a result of that, the investments, which should have come in, are not coming in. But more than that, we are losing out an opportunity to add low-cost labour-intensive manufacturing into India, whereby the problem of unemployment could have been addressed. The backward States like Bihar, UP, MP and Rajasthan could have benefited by investment in those States. The investments are now going to cities like Mumbai, Kolkata and Chennai which are already burdened with population and more economic activity. What I am saying is that when the Government is presenting Supplementary Demands after having completed two and a half years in office, it is the time for review of their working and looking at their report card. That is why, I was thinking that the Finance Minister should have been here. I come to the Supplementary Demands proper. Hon. Finance Minister is now asking the Parliament to approve Rs. 21,823.932 crore as additional expenditure. Of course, it is true that the net cash outflow will be only Rs. 11,444.76 crore, but even then he said ‘only Rs. 11,444 crore’. I can understand that when the economy is growing fast, the Finance Minister thinks that the amount of Rs. 11,444 crore is a very small amount. Therefore, I want to know what impact this additional expenditure is going to have on Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act . When the Finance Minister presented the first interim Budget of the UPA Government, he, in fact, by way of a notification said he was increasing the implementation of FRBM by one year because the Government had just taken over. Already, he had changed the goalpost for attaining fiscal and revenue deficit targets. What impact is this going to have? He says that he is going to do it out of savings and out of buoyancy in revenue. Here, two things are important. Whatever savings you are trying to attain, are you trying to have them by curtailing capital expenditure, which in fact, has been done consistently from 1991 to date to attain fiscal deficit targets? If you are reducing Rs. 10,000 crore of savings by reducing capital expenditure, that is not in the interest of the economy. If you are reducing revenue expenditure, then is it really something unproductive? And if it is unproductive, why, in the first instance, was it provided in the Budget?  He is saying that he is going to attain the savings. Why did he provide it when he thought that it was unproductive? These two issues are important. We really need to know both the issues in regard to how he is going to attain these targets.[s49]  

            The revenue targets have been increased, and more money is coming in. But this is not an incentive to spend more. India has a very high percentage of debt, and our domestic debt is very high. We are almost in a debt trap because the interest liability is constantly increasing. It is going beyond 50 per cent of the current revenue. Therefore, we really need to look into this issue. Is it a good reason to redeem it if the revenues are going up? Why should there be expenditure for the income? This cannot be justified. We should really think about this issue also. I would now like to talk about the farmers themselves. The Finance Minister has provided Rs. 1,359 crore, and Rs. 1,000 crore as debt relief as well as subvention. My good friend Shri K. S. Rao was speaking here, and the Finance Minister told him that they have more than doubled the credit in the last two years. I do not understand this point. Kindly see the paradox. On the one hand, the Government is patting its own back by saying that we have increased the credit, and on the other hand you are saying that now I am giving you debt relief. What is this? This farm policy of the Government of India really lacks direction. A holistic view in the approach needs to be taken with regard to the farm problems. The farmers are committing suicide, and the Finance Minister said that they are suicide-prone districts. There is a new terminology that is emerging. So far, we have heard only about drought-prone districts, but now they are saying suicide-prone districts. I am really surprised! Are they actually accepting that this is the reality that they are bound to commit suicide there as it is a suicide-prone area? All other places -- where suicides take place -- are exceptions, but in these places it is bound to happen. The point that I wish to make here is that the farm sector of the country needs a holistic approach, and a proper vision. The absence of this really worries me, especially, with a Government that takes it on an ad hoc basis. I have said this many times, and I will say it again. This becomes clearer in terms of fertilizers. The fertilizer subsidy is Rs. 2,359 crore. Kindly see it like this. In India, we have created the Retention Price Scheme in 1977 to allow domestic fertilizer companies to come up, so that we do not have to import fertilizers. This year we are importing record urea fertilizers. In my opinion, the nitrogenous fertilizers, which we have imported in the country this year has never been done in the last ten years. I was also the Minister for Chemical and Fertilizers. What is worrying me? There are serious problems, which have arisen because of this. The imported fertilizers are bought at a higher price than the domestically produced fertilizers. Therefore, the farmers are going to use the fertilizers from both the sources, that is, they are going to use domestic fertilizers as well as the imported fertilizers. How are you going to make a distinction for the farmers to compensate for their using the fertilizer bought at different prices, and from different sources? Further, the ports are also getting chocked because we are also importing huge quantities of food grains along with the fertilizers. The port congestion time has also increased manifold due to the ports getting chocked. How are you going to transport the fertilizers from the ports to the hinterland? This is going to be a challenge. In fact, I am really worried because the farmers are not going to get the fertilizers in time, and the issue of price is also to be taken into account. Probably, the productivity will also get affected as the farmers are still not able to use the fertilizers. This is also a very big problem being faced by the farm sector, and I hope that the Government deals with it in a very holistic manner. The Finance Minister in his earlier term as the Finance Minister had presented a status paper on subsidy, but he do not seem to be worried about it. I am saying this because the subsidies are going to be there. I hope that he has changed his mind, but I do not know about it. The subsidies and its relationship with fiscal issues are related to the farmers. They really need it at a reasonable price. These are the real issues, and we need to deal with it in a very holistic manner. Now, I would like to talk about the Supplementary Demands for Grants. The Finance Minister wants us to provide more money for the heavy industries and public enterprises because he wants to infuse more capital in some of the industries that he wants to revive.[r50]   

I can understand that this was a commitment made under the Common Minimum Programme. But the Government owes an explanation to the House as to, by injecting so much of money in this field, how many jobs have been created, how much productivity has been generated, and as a result of this how much increase in production has taken place. We have a right know this. I hope the Finance Minister will be able to give us this information. I hope good money is not thrown after the bad by the Government. The Information and Broadcasting Ministry asked for a grant of Rs.20.58 crore in the Supplementary Grants for disseminating information about the Government’s achievements. I hope this is not the money that we require to buttress the sagging image of the Government so that in UP, Punjab and other elections which are round the corner the prospects of the Government improve. I hope they do not use this money for that purpose. I would like know for what specific items of expenditure this Rs.20.58 crore in the Supplementary Demands has been provided. The Ministry of New and Renewable Energy sources is referred to as a new Ministry. In fact it is an old Ministry with a new name. It is just rechristened. Some money has been provided. That money has been provided for what? That money which was pending in the previous year has been provided. Just imagine! Why do you call the Ministry the New and Renewable Energy Sources? We are trying to change the name of the Ministry but putting the same old wine in a new bottle. We hope that as a result of this the Ministry will be able to generate newer sources of energy and will add at least ten per cent to the renewable sources of energy whether it is solar, geothermal, or wind. Unfortunately, this is not done and, therefore, this money has been provided for that. My last point relates to Sampoorna Gram Rozgar Yojana (SGRY). This is the flagship scheme of the Government which the entire House had supported. You are asking for an amount of about Rs.7,800 crore. But it is the responsibility of the Government to tell us all as to what has happened to the money that we have spent already. How many man hours of work have been created in how many Districts? How much good quality assets have been created? If they have created those assets what benefit that has really got the people? If we give more money now without going into all that, it will not be useful. It is a promise the Rural Development Minister had made in the Parliament when I had raised the issue and moved an amendment that the Parliament will be informed of this. Now that you are asking for more money, it is obligatory for the Government to give this information. Bulletproof cars are being bought because the SAARC Summit is taking place in Delhi. The SAARC leaders are going to come and, of course, we have to provide security to them. But I do not understand why these funds are being provided to the Ministry of External Affairs. Knowing the way the Government functions, when one Ministry acquires something, it will not allow the others to even touch it. So, why not put this money in the hands of the Ministry of Home Affairs so that the vehicles could be used by other Departments also whenever required? If these vehicles are put under the Ministry of External Affairs, after the SAARC leaders leave the country they will be locked up in garages and will turn into junk in no time.  After five years, when there is another summit again, the Ministry of External Affairs will ask for a grant again for the same purpose. I am not blaming any particular Government. I have been in the Government too and I am blaming myself also in the process. My next point relates to the Ministry of Shipping. Mr. Chairman, Sir, you were once the Minister of Water Resources and you would know the importance of inland waterways. Under these grants, a loan of Rs.213 crore has been waived. I want to know what is the basis for waiving this loan like this. Inland  waterways are something which we are all waiting for. There is the issue of interlinking of rivers. Large parts of India which are land-locked, badly need these inland waterways. This Department has been created for important reasons. Now we are writing off the loan. Are we thinking of writing off all the activities of this organization? I would like the Finance Minister to answer this. SHRIMATI P. SATHEEDEVI ( BADAGARA ): Mr. Chairman, Sir, I support the Supplementary Demands for Grants, 2007 proposed by the Finance Minister but with much dissatisfaction. Everybody is talking about the agrarian crisis. I am happy to note that even Mr. Swain has admitted that the country is facing an agrarian crisis.[r51]  

            He has not though realized this factor two and a half years before.  It is actually during the NDA regime, the entire country has faced the crisis.  Actually, the NDA Government had adopted misguided policies which has led the whole country and the agrarian sector in the crisis. It was started in the Nineties.  That is why the Left Parties had suggested even in the Nineties, when the misguided policies were adopted, by making concrete proposals for solving these issues.  Actually, the Left Front Government in West Bengal and the new formed Government in Kerala, we have formed concrete ideas and concrete methods to solve this crisis.  We are following in the States ruled by the Left Parties.  It can be seen that the Government has not moved much in the direction of fulfilling the promises made in the CMP.  At a time when the agriculture is engulfed in a crisis brought by the misguided policies, this sector as a whole has been completely ignored in the Demands.  It is the rural population, especially the womenfolk   who will be hit hardest.  There is no attempt to address the problems of crashing prices of agricultural produce by accepting the recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission.  In regard to the provisions of low interest rate loans and that of strengthening of the cooperative sector, no proper attention has been made. The State of Kerala was having monopoly in the plantation crops – rubber, pepper, tea, cardamom  and other plantation crops but the agricultural development of our State is lagging behind. There is no tariff protection given to these crops.  This has become acute when India became a member of the World Trade Agreement.  There is no tariff restriction towards import of palm oil, rubber and other produces in which Kerala was enjoying monopoly.  The import policy is very detrimental to the development of the State of Kerala. The market fluctuation is also very vital.  The minimum support price is always declared  annually but not in time which is not doing any justice to the farmers because it is delayed and out of season.  There must be a package deal for Kerala covering all the districts from Kasargod to Trivandrum. In the matter of paddy production, Kerala is always a deficit State.  It has to depend on other States for maintaining supplies.  This has been effectively done by the State by maintaining an effective public distribution system.  The policy of the Central Government in the supply of food materials is detrimental in maintaining the public distribution system which was existing in our State since Independence.  The criteria fixed by the Union Government in retaining people below the poverty line  are not suited to our State.  Actually, the deserved sections of people living below the poverty line who are deserving are not getting food materials at normal prices.  I, therefore, request the Government to review the policy so as to maintain an effective public distribution system in the State of Kerala.  Actually, it was there for some years but due to the anti-people policy adopted by the Government, we were not able to give food subsidy to the common people. Sir, the access to industrial credit remains abysmal.  In the industrial field, no major industry has not been commenced for decades.  The public undertakings are very few.  So, in the industrial sector, Kerala is lagging far behind; so also in creating acute unemployment among the educated youths. [r52]  

A major section of the educated people in my State will get the remedy through employment in the Gulf countries.  Actually, the manpower of our educated youth is being sold out in the Gulf countries.  How can we utilize the manpower of our educated youth in the development of our country when there is no plan with the Finance Ministry to give employment to a major section of these educated youth? The social security measures are getting reduced to all weaker sections.  The amount that is being spent for health and education is very less compared to other States.  The reason stated is that the State of Kerala is in a better position in education and health situation.  Hence, the Central aid is comparatively reduced. There is a long standing feeling among the people of Kerala that they are being neglected in many ways.  It is true that Kerala is advanced in education but that should not be a factor for denying Central aid for the development of higher education in the State.  In the case of public health also this discrimination is there. The borrowing powers of the States are considerably reduced.  The implication of reduction of borrowing ceiling to Rs.4672 crore in the year 2006-07 in order to stick to the fiscal correction path would have been calamitous to the State Government.  It would have meant a drastic reduction in the Plan outlay and a severe cut in social sector and welfare expenditure.  It will lead to the total disruption of the devolution of funds from the State Governments to local self-Government.  Hence, the intervention of the Central Government is highly necessary to secure social security. Sir, the pensionary benefits to old aged people should be enhanced.  They have spent a considerable proportion of their lives for the nation.  The pension of those who served in Army, Navy and Air Force should be increased.  One-rank-one pension is not fully implemented.  It has to be implemented strictly.  The State and Central finance should go at par with each other.  There should not be any discrimination between States whether developed or under-developed. For the last several years the country has witnessed the agitations demanding the enhancement of interest rate of Provident Fund.  It has to be increased. The State of Kerala has achieved much in the field of health compared to other States but this achievement should not be a cause for denying Central aid for public health.  Now, the State is facing new challenges, like increasing incidence of life style diseases, vector borne diseases like Chikungunya, Dengue fever, etc.   So, considering the crisis in the health sector the Central Government should pay much attention to giving the Central aid to my State. A Report Card on nutrition says that India has the highest number of malnourished children in the world.  One-third of the malnourished children are in India.  Of the world’s 146 million malnourished children, 57 millions are in India.  They make 47 per cent of the under-five in the country.  Even the sub-Saharan Africa is better off where only 33 per cent of the children are malnourished.  The corresponding figure for China is only 8 per cent.  The thrust should be on increasing the ICDS Centre, providing mid-day-meals, etc. an important component of the drive against child malnutrition.  It can be done only by strengthening the ICDS, by regularization of the Anganwadi workers, by enhancing the honorarium provided to workers and helpers. The more significant change recently has been the increased migration of both men and women from the rural agrarian sector to the cities.  The worst consequence is the well being of the children of such migrants who are not visible to the policy makers. Sir, the issue of basic protection of the migrant families and the provision of public services and system to the migrant families including children should be given basic priority.  With these words I support the Demand. श्री शैलेन्द्र कुमार ( चायल ) : सभापति जी, मैं वर्ष २००४-०५ की अतरिक्त मांगों और वर्ष २००६-०७ संबंधी अनुदान की अनुपूरक मांगों पर बोलने के लिये खड़ा हुआ हूं, जिनका मैं समर्थन करता हूं। सभापति जी, जहां तक वर्ष २००४-०५ की १०० अनुदानों और ५ वनियोग की मांगों के लिये ३३८२६.५७ करोड़ रुपये व्यय हुआ है, वहां २००६-०७ वर्ष के लिये ५३ अनुदान मांगें शामिल हैं, जिनके २१८२३.९२ करोड़ रुपये की मांग की गई है। अगर आज मूल्यांकन किया जाये तो हम देखते हैं कि विश्व के खुशहाल देशों के क्रम में भारत का स्थान १२५वां है। विश्व का सब से खुशहाल देश डेनमार्क है। उसके बाद स्विट ज़रलैंड, आस्टि्रया, आइसलैंड हैं, जिनका स्थान यूरोपियन देशों में टॉप के १० स्थानों में हैं। रूस और ज़िम्बाबवे की हालत बहुत खराब है। उसके साथ मैं यह भी कहना चाहूंगा कि जहां दसवीं पंचवर्षीय योजना में विकास दर ८ प्रतिशत आंकी गई है, हम कोशिश कर रहे हैं कि भविष्य में ११वीं पंचवर्षीय योजना में यह १० प्रतिशत हो जाये। जहां तक आर्थिक प्रदर्शन का प्रश्न है, यह तारीफ की बात है कि देश के कुछ हिस्सों में हमने विकास किया है। सभापति जी, जहां तक देश में नौजवानों को रोज़गार देने की बात है, हमारे पास ऐसी कई योजनाय़ें हैं जिन पर हम समय समय पर चर्चायें करते रहे हैं। मुझे य़ाद है जब डा. राम मनोहर लोहिया ने कहा था - "बेकारों को रोज़गार दो, नहीं तो बेरोज़गारी भत्ता दो " इस नारे को मूर्त्त रूप देने के लिय़े उत्तर प्रदेश के मुख्य मंत्री श्री मुलायम सिंह यादव ने बेरोजगार नवयुवकों को बेरोज़गार भत्ता देने का काम किया है। जिन कन्याओं ने १२वीं कक्षा पास की है, उनके लिये २० हजार रुपये कन्या धन के रूप में देने की योजना शुरु की है। इतना ही नहीं, उत्तर प्रदेश सरकार ने केन्द्र की सरकार से कुछ राशि की मांग भी की है और कहा है कि बेरोज़गारों को भत्ता और कन्याओं को कन्याधन दिया जाये ताकि वे भी देश की मुख्यधारा में आगे बढ़ सकें। समय समय पर इस सदन में चर्चायें की गई हैं। आज महिलाओं की उपेक्षा होती है लेकिन इस सरकार ने उनके लिये कुछ नहीं किया है। आज पूरे देश में ५८ प्रतिशत बेरोज़गार हैं। देश में ऑटोमोबाइल्स के क्षेत्र में ३६.२ प्रतिशत बाजार बढ़ा है, एअर ट्रैफिक में ३२.२ प्रतिशत की बढ़ोत्तरी हुई है और मोबाईल इंडस्ट्री कम्युनिकेशन क्षेत्र में ४८.९ प्रतिशत की बढोत्तरी हुई है। यह ठीक है कि हमने विकास किया है लेकिन आने वाले समय में ११वीं पंचवर्षीय योजना की जो रूपरेखा तैयार की गई है, उसमें साढ़े १४ लाख करोड़ रुपये की जरूरत पड़ेगी। यह भी सत्य है कि क्वाडि्रलेट्रल हाईवेज़ को हमने ४-लेन का बनाया है लेकिन उसे ६-लेन करने की योजना है। इस कार्य के लिये ४० हजार करोड़ रुपये की व्यवस्था करनी पड़ेगी। वर्ष २०१२ तक के लिये नेशनल हाईवेज़ का विकास करने के लिये जो बजट रखा गया है, उसके लिये २२० करोड़ रुपये की जरूरत पड़ेगी।[s53]  

 हमें इसी बजट से आगे कुछ करना है। ३५-गैर महानगरीय केन्द्रों पर आपकी हवाई अड्डे बनाने की योजना है। हमने इस सदन में पहले भी मांग की थी कि इलाहाबाद में जो एयरफोर्स का हवाई अड्डा है, वहां सवलियन एयरक्राफ्ट्स को उतरने में काफी अड़चन होती है और सुरक्षा की द्ृष्टि से भी वह गंभीर है। इसलिए इलाहाबाद एयरपोर्ट बनाने की बात भी आप इसमें शामिल करें। मंत्री जी का नारा है - सरकारी खजाने को बचाओ, खर्चे को घटाओ। वहीं पर मंत्री जी ने यह भी कहा है कि जो विदेशी यात्राओं पर जाते हैं, वर्कशॉप्स लगती हैं, सैमिनार होते हैं, उन पर रोक लगाई जाए। उन्होंने यह भी कहा है कि नई गाड़ियों की खरीद न हो और किराये की गाड़ियों पर चलें - उचित होगा अगर मंत्री जी उसकी शुरूआत खुद करते। जब ऊपर से शुरुआत होती है, तभी उसका असर नीचे तक जाता है। हम तमाम इस तरह के सुझाव देते हैं, विचार रखते हैं, लेकिन उनको अमली जामा नहीं पहनाया जाता। आज जरूरत इस बात की है कि अगर व्यवस्था में परिवर्तन करना है, तो परिवर्तन की दिशा ऊपर से लेकर नीचे की ओर होनी चाहिए, न कि नीचे से ऊपर की ओर। इसके लिए हमें कुछ करके दिखाना पड़ेगा। २००६-२००७ की पहली तिमाही में भारत का राजकोषीय घाटा ५० प्रतिशत से भी ज्यादा है, जो गहरी चिन्ता का विषय है। इसके लिए भी हमें सोचना पड़ेगा। वनिवेश के ज़रिये हमने ८००० करोड़ रुपये जुटाने की व्यवस्था की थी, लेकिन इस सरकार की मजबूरी है कि हमारे जो लैफ्ट के भाई हैं, उनके दबाव के चलते हम कोई भी निवेश की रूपरेखा तैयार नहीं करते। यह भी चिन्ता का विषय है। जहां तक किसानों द्वारा खुदकुशी करने की घटनाओं की बात है, उनकी संख्या में वृद्धि हुई है। समय समय पर हमने सदन में इस पर चर्चा भी की है। आवासीय ऋण की जो ब्याज दरें बढ़ी हैं, उससे भी हमारे ऊपर बहुत ज्यादा भार बढ़ा है। अभी कुछ दिन पहले हमे इसी सदन में चर्चा की थी कि आवश्यक वस्तुओं के मूल्यों में बढ़ोतरी हुई है और महंगाई बढ़ी है। पिछले वर्ष, अगर देखा जाए, तो १९ प्रतिशत तक महंगाई बढ़ी है। यदि आय में वृद्धि का प्रतिशत देखा जाए तो वह प्रतिशत बढ़ा है और दालों के दाम करीब ३३ प्रतिशत तक बढ़े हैं। किसानों को गेहूं के लिए प्रति क्िंवटल ७५० रुपये देना निश्चित हुआ था, जबकि यह समर्थन मूल्य भी अच्छा नहीं था। यही कारण था कि भारत ने आस्ट्रेलिया के किसानों को ९०० रुपये प्रति क्िंवटल की दर से भुगतान करके वहां से गेहूं मंगाने का काम किया। इस समय सरकार के पास प्राइवेट स्टाक नहीं होने से सार्वजनिक वितरण प्रणाली पर उसका कुप्रभाव पड़ा है और महंगाई भी बढ़ी है। हम्ाारी हमेशा इस सदन में मांग रही है कि छोटे और सीमान्त किसानों ने जो कर्ज़ लिया है, उनका ब्याज माफ करने की ज़रूरत है। इस ओर भी हमें विशेष ध्यान देना पड़ेगा, तभी जाकर हमारे देश के जो किसान आत्महत्या कर रहे हैं, वह रुक सकती हैं। जहां तक भारत निर्माण योजना की बात है, २०० जिलों में राष्ट्रीय ग्रामीण रोज़गार गारंटी योजना लागू की गई है। प्रत्येक जिले में १०० करोड़ रुपये से भी ज्यादा धन गया है, लेकिन देखा जाए तो ज़मीन पर वह स्थिति दिखाई नहीं पड़ती। 16.38 hrs.                           (Shri Mohan Singh in the Chair) 

 बेरोज़गारी की समस्या भी अभी दूर नहीं की जा सकी है। ११वीं योजना में ग्रामीण विकास पर सवा दो लाख करोड़ रुपये व्यय करने की ज़रूरत पड़ेगी, तभी जाकर हम बेरोज़गारी से लड़ सकते हैं। जहां तक करदाताओं को करों में छूट देने का प्रावधान था, उसे भी आप खत्म करने की बात सोच रहे हैं। यह भी सत्य है कि छूट का प्रावधान व्यय का ही दूसरा रूप है। इसलिए कर चोरों का पता, आप सर्च इंजन स्थापित करके करने जा रहे हैं। यह सच है कि बहुत से मामलों में जिस तरह कर-चोरी होती है, उसमें बहुत से लोग लिप्त हैं। अगर उसी धन को खजाने में लाया जाए, तो भारत की अर्थव्यवस्था काफी सुद्ृढ़ हो सकती है। आज हम पिछड़े क्षेत्रों के विकास की बात करते हैं, लेकिन देख रहे हैं कि जो अंतिम व्यक्ति पंक्ति में खड़ा है, हम उसका कोई विकास नहीं कर पा रहे हैं। दिल्ली से एक रुपया भेजते हैं, लेकिन गरीब तक केवल १५ पैसे ही पहुंचते हैं। ...( व्यवधान)...मान्यवर, अभी तो मैंने शुरू किया है। ºÉ£ÉÉ{ÉÉÊiÉ àÉcÉänªÉ : मैं अभी यहां बैठा हूं। आप तो काफी देर से बोल रहे हैं। gÉÉÒ ¶ÉèãÉäxp BÉÖEàÉÉ® : देश के विकास के लिए आज ज़रूरी यह है कि हम ग्रामीण क्षेत्रों का विकास करें, तभी जाकर हम अपने देश को तरक्की की राह पर ले जा सकते हैं। आंकड़े बताते हैं कि एक अरब की आबादी वाले इस देश में केवल तीन करोड़ लोग आयकर के दायरे में हैं। बाकी अगर देखे जाए, मान लें कि एक लाख रुपए से अधिक आमदनी के लोगों को छोड़ कर बाकी जितने लोग हैं, उनकी केवल एक लाख आमदनी है। आज भी ७० प्रतिशत आयकर दाता वेतन भोगी कर्मचारी हैं। जवाहरलाल नेहरू शहरी नवीनीकरण मिशन पर गौर किया जाए तो २१ से ४० प्रतिशत आज शहरों की आबादी बढ़ी है और वहां भी दिक्कत है। आज हम ९० प्रतिशत बुजुर्गों को सामाजिक सुरक्षा नहीं दे पा रहे हैं। ३० प्रतिशत ऐसे बुजुर्ग हैं, जो गरीबी रेखा से नीचे हैं, ३३ प्रतिशत बुजुर्गों की स्थिति बहुत खराब है। उनके लिए कुछ करने की जरूरत है। अगर अगले तीन वर्षों के आंकड़े इस देश के देखे जाएं तो करोड़पतियों की संख्या १२.८ प्रतिशत है और आगे आने वाले समय में लगभग ११ लाख तक पहुंच जाएगी। भारत के पास इस समय कम से कम २०३ अरब डालर की नकद राशि है, आने वाले समय में, सन् २००९ में यह लक्ष्य है कि यह ३२२ अरब डालर तक पहुंच जाएगी। कृषि से भी हम अपने देश का विकास कर सकते हैं। जहां १९ प्रतिशत पिछले वर्ष महंगाई बढ़ी है, उस पर भी हम कंट्रोल कर सकते हैं, स्टाक को रख कर हम बचा सकते हैं। आज भी भारत में ४० करोड़ श्रमिक मजदूर हैं, ९२ प्रतिशत असंगठित मजदूर हैं, जिसकी चर्चा अभी सदन में हमने की है। पूरी दुनिया की फीगर्स ले ली जाएं तो ३३ प्रतिशत आज भी निरक्षर भारत में हैं। अगर देखा जाए तो आज भी भारतवर्ष में ७० प्रतिशत ऐसे बच्चे हैं, जिन्होंने अभी तक स्कूल का मुंह भी नहीं देखा है। आज हमें मूल्यांकन करने की जरूरत है। इस देश में हमने क्या खोया है और क्या पाया है, इसका मूल्यांकन करने की जरूरत है। हम लोग डिमांडंस के लिए सर्वसम्मति से आपको धनराशि देने पर यहां स्वीकृति दे देंगे, लेकिन आज जरूरत इस बात की है कि इस विकास की गाड़ी को गांव तक ले जाएं, तभी हमारा देश विकास करेगा। महोदय, मैं एक बात कह कर समाप्त करता हूं। उत्तर प्रदेश सरकार ने पिछले कई वर्षों से बराबर स्पेशल पैकेज की मांग की है। १७२३० करोड़ रुपए के स्पेशल पैकेज की मांग हमने बराबर की है। आपने अन्य प्रदेशों को दिया है, मैं उसका विरोध नहीं करता, आप उन्हें दें, लेकिन इस बजट में जो पावर प्रोजेक्ट की परियोजनाएं लम्बित हैं, जो केन्द्र सरकार के पास हैं, उन्हें आगे बढ़ाने के लिए इसके मूल्यांकन की जरूरत है। अगर इस पैकेज को देंगे तो मेरे ख्याल से उत्तर प्रदेश का विकास होगा, पूरे देश का विकास होगा, क्योंकि उत्तर प्रदेश भारत का ह्ृदय प्रदेश है। श्री राम कृपाल यादव ( पटना ):àÉÉxÉxÉÉÒªÉ ºÉ£ÉÉ{ÉÉÊiÉ àÉcÉänªÉ, àÉé +ÉÉ{ÉBÉEä |ÉÉÊiÉ +ÉÉ£ÉÉ® BªÉBÉDiÉ BÉE®iÉÉ cÚÆ ÉÊBÉE +ÉÉ{ÉxÉä àÉÖZÉä ºÉ{ãÉÉÒàÉå]ÅÉÒ ¤ÉVÉ] 2006-07 {É® ¤ÉÉäãÉxÉä BÉEÉ +É´ÉºÉ® |ÉnÉxÉ ÉÊBÉEªÉÉ* +ÉÉVÉ VÉÉä ¤ÉVÉ] |ÉºiÉÖiÉ ÉÊBÉEªÉÉ cè, àÉé =सका समर्थन करने के लिए खड़ा हुआ हूं। देश की आजादी के लगभग ६० वर्ष हो रहे हैं और पिछले ६० वर्षों से लगातार यह प्रयास किया जा रहा है कि देश का जो अंतिम पंक्ति में रहने वाला व्यक्ति है, उस तक विकास की किरण जाए और उसकी दशा सुधरे। मगर ऐसा अहसास हो रहा है कि लाख प्रयास के बावजूद भी देश का जो अंतिम व्यक्ति है, वह खुशहाल नहीं है। गांव में जो रहता है, जो गंदी बस्तियों में रहता है, मेहनत एवं मजदूरी करता है, ठेला एवं रिक्शा चलाता है, जो छोटे-छेटे व्यवसायों में लगा है, वह आज दुखी हालत में है। आज यह हालत है कि जो काम करने वाला व्यक्ति है, वह अपने परिवार को दो वक्त की रोटी भी नहीं दे पा रहा है, जब कि वह दिन भर मेहनत, मजदूरी करता है।[rep54]  मगर जब रात को वह घर आता है, और उसके बच्चे और परिवार के लोग रोटी मांगते हैं, लेकिन वह रोटी नहीं देता, बल्कि रोटी की जगह बच्चों को थप्पड़ मारता है। बच्चे बेचारे रोटी की जगह थप्पड़ खाकर और खून के आंसू पीकर सो जाते हैं। आज देश की हालत आबादी बढ़ने के कारण बहुत खराब है। हम बढ़ती आबादी को रोकने के लिए कोई प्रयास नहीं कर रहे हैं। जब तक बढ़ती आबादी को नियंत्रित नहीं किया जाएगा, तब तक देश इसी गरीबी और फटेहाली की हालत में रहेगा। इसलिए सरकार का मुख्य उद्देश्य यह होना चाहिए कि वह देश की आबादी को नियंत्रित करने हेतु समुचित पग उठाए। महोदय, मैं सदन के सभी सदस्यों और सरकार से निवेदन करना चाहूंगा कि हमें बढ़ती आबादी को नियंत्रित करने पर गहराई से विचार करना चाहिए। सम्माननीय सदस्य इस समस्या पर विचार करें और सरकार इस बारे में कुछ ठोस कदम उठाए, ठोस निर्णय ले। हमारी सरकार आजादी के बाद से देश के विकास हेतु समुचित आर्थिक नीति बनाकर उस पर चलती रही है, लेकिन आज भी अंतिम पंक्ति में बैठा व्यक्ति खुशहाल नहीं है। जब तक वह खुशहाल नहीं होगा, तब तक देश की तरक्की नहीं हो सकती है। आज हमारी जो अर्थव्यवस्था है, जो हमारी आर्थिक नीतियां हैं, उनके कारण देश में अमीर और गरीब के बीच खाई बढ़ती जा रही है, यह खाई दिनोंदिन चौड़ी होती जा रही है। आज हालत यह है कि अमीर और अमीर होते जा रहे हैं तथा गरीब और गरीब होते जा रहे हैं। हमने अमीर और गरीब की खाई को जितना भरने की कोशिश की, वह उतनी ही और चौड़ी होती गई। इसलिए सरकार को कोई ऐसी ठोस नीति बनानी चाहिए, जिससे अमीर और गरीब की खाई कम हो और हम इस पर नियंत्रण कर सकें। महोदय, आज स्थिति यह है कि गरीब आदमी दर-पुश्त-दर गरीब होता जा रहा है और अमीर दर-पुश्त-दर अमीर होता जा रहा है। जो किसान पहले खेत और खलिहान में काम करता था, आज उसका बेटा भी वही कर रहा है। जो गरीब पहले ठेला चलाता था, आज उसके बच्चे भी ठेला ही चला रहे हैं। जो पहले बिना छत के थे, आज उनके बच्चे भी बिना छत के नीचे खुले आसमान में जी रहे हैं। आज हम देश के आर्थिक संकट को दूर नहीं कर पा रहे हैं। इसलिए देश की गरीबी पर चोट करने की आवश्यकता है। मेरा आपके माध्यम से सरकार से निवेदन है कि वह कोई ऐसे ठोस कानून बनाए, जिससे देश में अमीरी और गरीबी का गैप कम हो सके, उस पर नियंत्रण लग सके। देश में आज अमीरी ५०-१०० घरों में सिमट कर रह गई है। सिर्फ कुछ घराने ही धन पर नियंत्रण कर रहे हैं और देश के शेष लोग अभाव और गरीबी में जीने को विवश हैं। महोदय, हमारी यू.पी.ए. की सरकार ने इस दिशा में कुछ कठोर कदम उठाए हैं। इस बारे में माननीय प्रधान मंत्री जी और वित्त मंत्री जी सदन में बराबर बयान देते रहे हैं और यहां गरीबी को दूर करने पर अनेक बार चर्चा हो चुकी है, लेकिन वह चर्चा केवल चर्चा मात्र बनकर रह गई है, उसके कोई ठोस परिणाम नहीं निकले। मेरा आपके माध्यम से सरकार से निवेदन है कि वह इस समस्या पर गौर फरमाए और जो अर्थव्यवस्था ५०-१०० घरों में सिमट कर रह गई, उसे उनकी कैद से आजाद कराएं ताकि आम आदमी का जीवन ऊपर उठ सके और उसे दो समय की पेट भर रोट मिल सके। देश में आज कहीं नक्सली मूवमेंट चल रहा है और कहीं आतंकी गतवधियां चल रही हैं। इन सब की वजह पेट की भूख है। यदि हर पेट को भरपेट रोटी मिल जाए, उसे उसकी नीड की आवश्यक चीजें मिल जाएं, तो ऐसा नहीं होगा।[r55]  

 सब लोगों की पढ़ाई की व्यवस्था हो जाये, सब लोगों की शिक्षा और स्वास्थ्य की व्यवस्था हो जाये, हर गांव में खुशहाली आ जाये तो मैं समझता हूं कि हम नियंत्रण कर सकते हैं। बड़े पैमाने पर जो हमारे नौजवान गलत रास्ते पर जा रहे हैं, खास तौर पर उन पर हम नियंत्रण करने का काम कर सकते हैं। यह बात सही है कि आज गांव से लोग शहर में आ रहे हैं। शताब्दी की शुरूआत से शहरी आबादी २० प्रतिशत से बढ़कर ४० प्रतिशत हो गई है, यह चिन्ता का विषय है। गांव अगर खाली होकर शहर में आ जायेगा तो समस्या हो जायेगी। आज इतनी बड़ा समस्या क्यों है, अभी नियम १९३ के तहत बहस चल रही है, असंगठित मजदूरों की बात है, दिल्ली जैसे शहर में रिक्शा वाला, ठेले वाला कानून बन गया कि बन्द करो, मत चलाओ, आज यह स्थिति है। आज झुग्गी-झोंपड़ियों का आन्दोलन हो रहा है। कल ही एक प्रदर्शन हुआ, माननीय सदस्य श्री देवेन्द्र प्रसाद यादव के नेतृत्व में बड़े पैमाने पर लाखों लोग अपनी मांगों के समर्थन में यहां जुटे थे। मैं दिल्ली की बात कर रहा हूं। दिल्ली में १६-१७ सौ ऐसी झुग्गी-झोंपड़ियां हैं, जो अवैध हैं और उससे कई तरह की समस्याएं शहरों में बढ़ रही हैं। यह सिर्फ महानगरों में ही नहीं, मेरे पटना क्षेत्र में भी है। मैं अपने क्षेत्र की बात बता रहा हूं। वहां करीब-करीब ५०-६० बड़े-बड़े स्लम हैं, जिनमें गरीब तबके के लोग रहते हैं। यह अलग बात है कि वहां की सरकार उनको उजाड़ रही है, मार रही है, पीट रही है तो वे बेचारे कहां जायें। जब आदमी पैदा हुआ है तो वह कहीं तो रहेगा। कम से कम उसे रहने के लिए झोंपड़ी तो जरूर चाहिए। हम उन लोगों को पक्का मकान नहीं दे सकते हैं। वैसे सरकार ने एक बड़ा कदम उठाया है, शहरी गरीबों के विकास के लिए नेहरू जी के नाम पर जवाहर लाल नेहरू मिशन योजना को लागू किया है। उसमें ६३-६४ शहरों का चयन किया है। हमारे यहां पटना, बोधगया और गया शहर का भी चयन हुआ है, मगर दुर्भाग्य है कि वहां की सरकार और शासन ने अभी तक वहां से डी.पी.आर. बनाकर भी नहीं भेजा, वह इतनी भी सक्षम नहीं है, ताकि सरकार उसमें राशि आबंटित करे। अगर एक शहर में कम से कम ५००-६०० करोड़ रुपया जाता तो वहां के जो गरीब तबके के लोग हैं तो गरीबों के विकास के लिए मिशन लागू कर देते। यू.पी.ए. सरकार ने कदम उठाया है, आज तक यह व्यवस्था नहीं थी, मगर उसका अनुकरण नहीं हो पा रहा है। यह वहां की सरकार का फाल्ट है, यहां की सरकार का फाल्ट नहीं है, वह अलग बात है। सारे लोगों की पिटाई हो रही है, लोग जेल जा रहे हैं। हमारे पटना शहर में उसी तरह से पूरे देश के पैमाने पर यह स्थिति उत्पन्न हो गई है। माननीय सदस्य शैलेन्द्र जी बता रहे थे कि लगभग ३४ करोड़ की आबादी है, जो असंगठित मजदूर हैं, जिनकी लड़ाई है, जिस चर्चा में आप भी चर्चा कर रहे थे। माननीय सदस्यों ने चर्चा करने का काम किया है तो क्या उनको जीने का हक नहीं है? जब वह पैदा हुआ है तो संवैधानिक अधिकार तो वहां से ही शुरू हो जाता है। सरकार को चाहिए कि उनकी शिक्षा की व्यवस्थी, उनकी रोजी-रोटी की व्यवस्था, उनके मकान की व्यवस्था, उनकी पढ़ाई की व्यवस्था और उनके स्वास्थ्य की व्यवस्था करे। मैं समझता हूं कि इस बजट में असंगठित मजदूरों के लिए कोई प्रावधान नहीं है।…(व्यवधान) अभी से घंटी बज रही है? सभापति महोदय : आपकी पार्टी का समय बहुत पहले समाप्त हो गया और एक और वक्ता बाकी हैं। श्री राम कृपाल यादव : पार्टी का समय तो खत्म हो गया, वह मैं जानता हूं, मगर आपकी विशेष कृपा हो जायेगी तो मैं कुछ और बोल दूंगा। लेकिन अगर आपका निर्देश होगा तो मैं बैठ जाऊंगा। सभापति महोदय: आप जल्दी समाप्त करें। श्री राम कृपाल यादव :àÉé +É{ÉxÉÉÒ nnÇ £É®ÉÒ ¤ÉÉiÉ BÉEc ®cÉ cÚÆ* +ÉMÉ® àÉÉèBÉEÉ ÉÊàÉãÉÉ cè iÉÉä BÉEcxÉä nÉÒÉÊVÉA. सभापति महोदय: आपका दर्द जल्दी बाहर हो जाये तो एक और सदस्य, जो बचे हुए हैं, वे बोल लेंगे। श्री राम कृपाल यादव :càÉ +É{ÉxÉÉÒ ¤ÉÉiÉ JÉiàÉ BÉE®xÉä BÉEÉÒ BÉEÉäÉÊ¶É¶É BÉE®åMÉä* àÉé ¤ÉiÉÉ ®cÉ lÉÉ ÉÊBÉE <ºÉ ¤ÉVÉ] àÉå BÉEcÉÓ BÉEÉä<Ç |ÉÉ´ÉvÉÉxÉ xÉcÉÓ cè, ÉÊVÉºÉ BÉEàÉä®ä ´ÉMÉÇ BÉEÉÒ SÉSÉÉÇ BÉEÉÒ lÉÉÒ* +ÉÉ{É BªÉ´ÉºlÉÉ BÉEÉÒÉÊVÉA, +ÉÉ{É BÉEÉxÉÚxÉ ¤ÉxÉÉ<ªÉä, <नके हाल पर मत छोड़िये, लाठी खाने और मार खाने के लिए मत छोड़िये। आप कह रहे हैं कि हम लोगों को रोजगार देंगे, लेकिन रिक्शा, ठेले वालों को आपने बन्द कर दिया। आप उनके लिए कानून बनाइये। जब तक कानून नहीं बनाइयेगा, तब तक उनको रोजगार कैसे मिलेगा। आप उनको बाध्य कर रहे हैं कि वे हाथ में हथियार उठायें और वे गलत काम में संलिप्त हो जायें। उनके लिए आप व्यवस्था कीजिए, मैं आपके माध्यम से यह निवेदन करूंगा। गरीबी उन्मूलन, इस बड़े अच्छे शब्द का इस्तेमाल आप कर रहे हैं। गरीबी उन्मूलन आपका उद्देश्य है, मगर आप देखिए कि गरीबी का कहां उन्मूलन हो रहा है? आप राशि आवंटित कर रहे हैं। आपके पास स्कीम है। उसमें कितनी राशि आप आवंटित कर रहे हैं, लेकिन क्या आपने इसकी मानिटरिंग की है? गरीबी उन्मूलन कार्यमक्रम में वभिन्न योजनाओं में आप जो राशि आवंटित कर रहे हैं, क्या आपने गौर से देखा है कि उससे कितना गरीबी उन्मूलन हो रहा है? गरीबी उन्मूलन योजना चल रही है लेकिन गरीबी भी बढ़ रही है - यह कौन सा नियम है, कौन सा कानून है? आप गरीबी उन्मूलन कर रहे हैं लेकिन उन्मूलन हो रहा है या नहीं, इसकी मंत्री जी आप मानिटरिंग तो करिए। क्या कभी आपने इस बात पर गौर किया है और विचार किया है। केवल नियम बनाने से कुछ नहीं होगा। आप नीयत ठीक रखिए। आप नियम बना रहे हैं, लेकिन आप नीयत साफ रखिए और उसे सरजमीं पर उतारने का काम करिए, तभी मैं समझता हूं कि आप गरीबों की रक्षा और सुरक्षा की बात आप कह सकते हैं। यहां नार्थ-ईस्ट की बात कही जाती है। इस क्षेत्र के लिए हम पैसा देते हैं। हम वहां बजट का दस प्रतिशत अधिक देते हैं। हम नार्थ-ईस्ट की गरीबी और फटेहाली को दूर करने के लिए और उसके विकास के लिए पैसा दे रहे हैं, लेकिन क्या उस पर आपकी नजर गयी है कि कितना पैसा खर्च हुआ और जिस उद्देश्य से आप पैसा दे रहे हैं, उसकी कितनी प्रोग्रेस हुयी? नार्थ-ईस्ट के जो कई छोटे-छोटे राज्य हैं, वहां की अपनी एक विशेष हालात हैं, वहां भी बड़े पैमाने पर आंदोलन चल रहे हैं। बोड़ोलैंड और भी न जाने क्या-क्या, वहां रोज आंदोलन होते है। जो पैसा आप दे रहे हैं, क्या उस पर आपका कोई नियंत्रण है? क्या आप उसकी मानिटरिंग करते हैं? क्या आप देखते हैं कि जिस योजना के लिए आपने पैसा दिया, उस योजना की कितनी प्रगति हुयी है? नार्थ-ईस्ट के उस इलाके में कितना पिछड़ापन दूर हुआ? शिक्षा, स्वास्थ्य, सड़क, बिजली और पानी में कितना पैसा लगा, या बच गया? इसे अगर देखने का काम आप नहीं करेंगे, तो आप पैसा देते रहिए, अगर वह खर्च नहीं होगा, तो सब बेकार है। आप चाहे जितना पैसा देते रहिए, इसलिए आप इसे भी नियंत्रित करने का काम करिए - यही मेरा आपसे निवेदन है। जन स्वास्थ्य आम लोगों से जुड़ा हुआ सवाल है। मैं आभार व्यक्त करना चाहता हूं कि पिछले दिनों पूरे देश के पैमाने पर छ: एम्स हास्पिटल्स के निर्माण के लिए पूर्ववर्ती सरकार ने तय किया था, लेकिन उनके लिए पैसा नहीं दिया था। उस समय चुनाव थे और अपना प्रचार करने के लिए, जिससे चुनाव में हमें वोट मिल जाएगा, यहां हास्पिटल बनाओ, वहां हास्पिटल बनाओ, लेकिन पैसा ही नहीं दिया, केवल शिलालेख का बोर्ड लग गया। माननीय उपराष्ट्रपति जी को हमारे इलाके में ले जाया गया, मगर पैसा नहीं मिला। आपने पैसा दिया है, तो कितना पैसा दिया है, उसकी कितनी डिमांड है, कितना खर्च करना है, आप पैसा थोड़ा-थोड़ा देंगे, तो अगले पचास सालों में भी वे नहीं बन पाएंगं। आपने जो पैसा हमारे पटना संसदीय क्षेत्र के लिए दिया है, उड़ीसा को दिया है, करीब चार-पांच राज्यों को और मिला है, मेरा निवेदन है कि आप सभी जगह पर्याप्त पैसा दीजिए। यहां बड़े पैमाने पर लोग आते हैं। वहां हास्पिटल नहीं होने की वजह से दिल्ली में भीड़ लगी रहती है। जब भी लोगों को परेशानी रहती है, वे यहां आ जाते हैं। वहीं आम गरीब नहीं आ पाता है। इसलिए मैं आपसे निवेदन करूंगा कि एम्स हास्पिटल्स के लिए कारगर ढंग से पैसा दीजिए, जो पटना सहित जो दूसरे पांच राज्यों में खुलने हैं, ताकि वहां एम्स हास्पिटल्स खुल सकें। सभापति महोदय :  आप अपनी बात जल्दी समाप्त करिए। श्री राम कृपाल यादव : मैं अपनी बात जल्द ही समाप्त करता हूं। आप एक वार्षिक प्लान बनाइए, कितना पैसा दिया है, इसकी जानकारी लीजिए और पैसा देकर एम्स जल्दी बन जाए, उसकी व्यवस्था करने का काम करिए। जो राज्य हैं, वहां पैसा मिलता है, आपके पास कितने आंतरिक संसाधन है, उस आधार पर पैसा मिलता है। आंतरिक आधार जिस राज्य का नहीं है, जो पिछड़ा राज्य है, बिहार, उत्तर प्रदेश, उड़ीसा, मध्य प्रदेश आदि कई ऐसे प्रदेश हैं, जिनकी हालात और आतंरिक रिसोर्सेज बढि़या नहीं हैं। इस तरह से आप क्राइटेरिया बनायेंगे, तो आंतरिक संसाधन बढेंगे, उसके लिए कोई प्रयास करिए - नहीं तो उन पिछड़े राज्यों पर विशेष कृपा करने का काम करिए। क्या जो भाई पिछड़ा है, वह पिछडा रहेगा, जो बीमार है, वह बीमार रहेगा? बीमारू राज्यों को भी, जैसे बिहार, उड़ीसा, उत्तर प्रदेश और भी कई ऐसे राज्य हैं, इन राज्यों के उत्थान के लिए, हमारे बिहार की हालत सबसे खराब है, उड़ीसा की हालत खराब है, उत्तर प्रदेश की हालत खराब है, इन राज्यों को उपर उठाने के लिए और इन राज्यों को मुख्य धारा से जोड़ने के लिए आप कोई योजना बनाइए। 17.00 hrs. 

आप योजना आयोग पर दबाव डालें। सरकार की नीति होनी चाहिए कि पिछड़े राज्यों के उत्थान के लिए आन्तरिक संसाधन जुटाए। बिहार में एक भी फैक्ट्री नहीं है। झारखंड बनने के बाद वहां आमदनी के साधन बिल्कुल खत्म हो गए हैं। आपने विशेष कृपा की है, इसके लिए मैं यूपीए सरकार को धन्यवाद देता हूं कि बिहार को पैसा दिया जा रहा है, लेकिन वह खर्च नहीं हो रहा है, यह अलग बात है। आप हजारों करोड़ रुपये दे चुके हैं, लेकिन वहां पैसा खर्च नहीं हो रहा है। ऐसे राज्यों के लिए आप क्या करेंगे…(व्यवधान)  यह बात सही है कि जहां आन्तरिक संसाधन कमजोर हैं, वहां कुछ किया जाना चाहिए। वहां फैक्ट्री नहीं हैं, आप फैक्ट्री लगवाइए, कोई विशेष कृपा कीजिए, योजनाएं बनवाइए।…(व्यवधान)पिछड़े राज्यों के लोगों को आगे बढ़ाने के लिए कोई विशेष योजनाएं देने का काम कीजिए, उन्हें आर्थिक रूप से मदद देने का काम कीजिए, ताकि उन राज्यों का विकास हो सके और वे देश की मुख्य धारा से जुड़ सकें। जब तक देश के गरीब लोग रोते रहेंगे, देश रोता रहेगा, जब तक इस देश के गरीब लोग मरते रहेंगे, देश मरता रहेगा, जब तक किसान मरते रहेंगे, देश मरता रहेगा। …(व्यवधान)  वैसे जो योजनाएं बन रही हैं, वे कागजों में ही रह जाएंगी, इसलिए कोई ठोस उपाय करवाइए और देश के अवाम के लिए कोई अच्छी व्यवस्था कीजिए ताकि अमीरी और गरीबी में जो खाई बढ़ती जा रही है, उसे कम किया जा सके, मिटाया जा सके। SHRIMATI V. RADHIKA SELVI ( TIRUCHENDUR ) : Hon’ble Chairman, Sir, I thank the Chair for giving me an opportunity to speak on the Supplementary Demands for Grants for Budget (General) for the year 2006-07.  I would like to thank Dr. Kalaignar Karunanidhi our Leader and the present Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu who has enabled me to find myself in this august House.  I would also like to express my gratitude to the rising star in the horizon of Tamil Nadu politics our Lieutenant to our Leader and the Local Administration Minister of Tamil Nadu, Hon’ble M.K. Stalin.  I would like to thank the Union Government for allocating Rs.8.70 crores for the relief and welfare measures of the labours working in the salt quarters in the coastal regions of Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Gujarat under the head National Disaster Management Relief Fund.  I would like to impress upon the Union Government that this may not be sufficient to meet the ground situation there and hence this allocation may kindly be enhanced further.  There is a welcome move on the part of the Union Government to have allocated Rs.10 crores for the health insurance scheme to cover the poor living below the poverty line.  Rs.1.82 crores has been set apart for the growth of Tamil language.  In Tamil Nadu great efforts are being taken by the Chief Minister to take Tamil Nadu to new heights.  My esteemed colleague Shri K.S. Rao and Smt. Sathee Devi pointed out the plight of farmers all over the country.  The pitiable conditions of the farmers remain to be a continuing tale of woes.  Agriculturists are the backbone of this country and our economy.  It is only when they lay their hands in our fields we can lay our hands in our food plates.  But the sufferings and the misery facing the farmers loom at large crushing their back.  That’s why our Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu took a bold step to wipe out the tears of the farmers, especially the debt burden that was crushing them.  He waived the crop loan and removed  the  interest  burden.   About  Rs. 7,000 crores extended as loans through 

*English translation of the speech originally delivered  in Tamil. cooperative sector has been waived by the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu Dr. Kalaignar Karunanidhi.  I urge upon the Union Government to follow suit attend to the problems of farmers living in other parts of India.  Agricultural loans taken from the nationalised banks may also be reviewed by the Union Government so that the farmers are liberated from the crushing debt burden that impedes agricultural growth.  As far as educational loans are concerned, it appears to be rather a streamlined one and is generally found to be operating well as educational loans are being distributed by both public sector and private sector banks.  But the hard reality is that the needy poor are not able to get educational loans in the hour of dire need.  Poor people whenever they knock at the doors of the public sector banks or nationalised banks, they are made to run from pillar to post.  The nationalised banks even come out with ready reply that they have met with the target fixed for the academic year to extend the educational loans.  Hence, I urge upon the Union Finance Minister to see that this educational loan facility are streamlined further and the needy poor are also able to get such loans.  And he may also increase the loan amount to be distributed as educational loans.  I also urge upon the Finance Minister to clarify whether such targets have really been fixed.  If such targets are fixed, it may kindly be expanded further. Kanyakumari the farthest point of India at the Southern tip of the country is situated near my Tiruchendur constituency.  Kanyakumari is an important tourist centre attracting tourists from many parts of the globe.  I urge upon the Union Government to go in for giving a face lift to Kanyakumari so that it may be a great tourist destination to international tourists.  I would like the Centre to take efforts to make Kanyakumari a model tourist place with enhanced infrastructural facilities and an added face lift.  This calls for increased fund allocation while taking care of this move you may also provide funds for nearby places of tourism importance and areas that contribute to exports like flower exports from Thovalai in my constituency.  Floriculture is a traditional occupation there and flowers are exported in a big way from this area.  The exporters who are contributing to earn foreign reserves have a demand to have cold storage facilities to help save the exportable flowers.  Hence, I urge upon the Union Government to provide cold storage facility there in Thovalai to benefit the traditional flower growers. Kum. S. Shanthi of Tamil Nadu, the athlete, who has opened our medal tally account in the on going Doha Asian Games, has been encouraged and honoured with a prize money of Rs.15 lakhs.  This has been announced by our Leader and the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu Dr. Kalaignar Karunanidhi.  I would like to impress upon the Union Government to follow suit and encourage suitably all other medal winners from India who have participated in Doha Asian Games.  This is necessary because only then our young men will be encouraged and enthused to participate in the ensuing Commonwealth Games and Olympic Games.  Such incentives are necessary to promote athletics and games among the younger generations who constitute the majority of our Indian population.  Infrastructural facilities for games and athletics must be created.  Suitable playgrounds and equipment must be provided and conducive atmosphere for sport development must be there.  There should be a scheme evolved to see that our sportsmen get nutritious food and proper training and coaching.  This calls for special attention from the Union Government with increased allocation of funds for this specific purpose. Tamil Nadu is about to introduce Value Added Tax (VAT) replacing the existing sales tax mode of review collection.  In order to meet the revenue loss that may accrue due to this change over of taxation method our Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu has emphasised at the recently concluded National Development Council meet that there should be a cent-per-cent compensation package at least in the initial years to overcome the problems in the beginning.  For the past 4-5 years, the previous regime in Tamil Nadu led by Ms. Jaya Lalitha has not provided employment in the Government services.  There had been an undeclared ban on recruitment for Government jobs.  Job opportunities and employment generation were not there at all.  Now, our Chief Minister has taken steps to provide job opportunities and employment.  To go ahead with this positive measure, the Government of Tamil Nadu is faced with paucity of funds.  Thousands of young men are getting Government jobs now in Tamil Nadu.  Tamil Nadu is making strides towards the path of prosperity.  At this juncture, to overcome the initial problems, we need to have the support from the Centre through its enhanced allocation or compensation package to Tamil Nadu.  Hence, I urge upon the Union Government to compensate fully the loss faced by the Tamil Nadu by way of introducing VAT regime. Our Leader, the present Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu Dr. Kalaignar Karunanidhi also emphasised the need to go in for inter linking of rivers.  He emphasised this in the National Development Council meet concluded recently.  Tamil Nadu has depleted irrigational water supply.  It has short supply of drinking water too.  In order to meet both irrigational and drinking water needs, there must be a permanent arrangement to get water.  He has suggested that the wasteful flow of peninsular rivers must be arrested and channelizing them in a constructive way by way of inter linking of rivers is a must.  There are many villages in the remote areas going without water even basic drinking water resources.  There are villages that are not having adequate irrigational system due to which they are affected by flash floods occurring during rainy season but go without water and remain dry during remaining part of the entire year.  Hence, he has emphasised the need for the Centre to allocate funds and take up in the next Five Year Plan the inter linking of rivers in India and to announce it in the next Budget itself. Before I could conclude, I would like to bring to your notice the plight of Beedi workers and their families.  Thousands of them are living in and around my constituency.  They are not getting adequate medical facilities even in the existing ESI dispensaries.  Adequate number of medical staff including doctors are not available.  There is also a peculiar situation like one doctor is available to attend to five hospitals.  Adequate number of staff like nurses are not available in order to ensure proper health care to these Beedi workers who have got enhanced occupation hazard.   The infrastructure for health facility must be enhanced further.  There is an urgent need for Beedi workers living in Cheranmaldevi region to have a hospital with proper infrastructural facilities.  I request the Union Government to go in for this on a priority basis allocating adequate funds urgently and immediately.  The children of Beedi workers are entitled to educational scholarship through the fund created by the Centre, but the scholarship facilities are not reaching the children as and when they needed them.  This scholarship facility must be streamlined and must reach the needy in time.  There are some schools which are not at all getting the scholarships.  So there is something wrong in the system and it needs to be streamlined and it must be ensured that all the children of Beedi workers who are going to school must get this scholarship because this alone could liberate them from the clutches of backwardness and poverty.  With this I conclude my speech extending my support to the Supplementary Demands for Grants Budget (General). SHRI B. MAHTAB ( CUTTACK ):  Mr. Chairman, Sir, at the outset, I would say that one would remember that the beginning of the last decade of the 20th century, discussed in great detail the fall of the Berlin Wall.  It was an end of an era and the beginning of hope and aspirations. The wall stood demolished and windows opened up to the entire world on personal computers to those who could get one.  During the middle of the 20th century,  there was an upsurge of human expectation and aspirations.  Every newly liberated nation had a dream.  Everyone was to get equality of opportunity, human dignity and a chance to nurture one’s activity and contribute in productivity.[r56]  

            The dreams could be realized only partially. The inequalities did not diminish. Millions are even today deprived of their basic necessities like food, water, shelter and education. The divide is increasing fast. At this juncture, we are discussing the Supplementary Budget, and India’s latest GDP figure shows 9.2 per cent growth in July-September, 2006. That confirms that a fairly widespread economic growth is taking hold. This is the fastest growth rate in the last four quarters. The previous three had been, growth rates of 8.5 per cent, 8.4 per cent and 8.9 per cent respectively. The GDP growth rate has been led by manufacturing and construction, and service sectors such as hotels, transportation and financial services. We hope, we will enter the high growth trajectory at 10 per cent GDP growth by the end of Eleventh Plan, and India will become one of the major economic powers of this world. All those who are directly getting benefit from this high growth are happy and extolling the free market economy. But for the bottom 30 per cent of the population, which is around 300 million, nothing much has changed.   They are experiencing growth passively as we experience the effect of a chain smoker, or of a smoker, in passivity. They are experiencing growth passively through higher degree of pollution, costlier basic goods, living space and fewer well-fed jobs. More jobs ought to have been available with an eight to nine per cent growth. But they have not. It is mainly because most of the poor are in the villages and the rural economy has been stagnant. About 70 per cent of the population is in India’s six million villages and 68 per cent of the people are dependent on agriculture. The service sector is increasingly important for the Indian economy. It is contributing 50 per cent of the GDP. Manufacturing growth has been rising at 11.3 per cent only, and only higher agricultural growth can and would provide employment and the focus should be on that. Sadly, that is not so. The organized manufacturing sector could have absorbed the growing number of job seekers but employment in this sector has not been expanding rapidly. It is the slow absorption of labour in the manufacturing industry that has led to swelling number of jobless. The industrial restructuring that took place after the economic reforms led to the shedding of labour by machines in order to increase productivity. Basically, it is low agricultural productivity that has affected the rural economy adversely, and this has been due to lack of adequate infrastructure in many parts of our country. A consistent fall in public investment in agriculture, health and education, especially in rural areas, has also led to pauperization of rural India. The rural youths are ill-equipped today for jobs in the service industry in general[MSOffice57] . A majority of drop-outs from schools, that too in millions, occur in village schools. Their search for job is usually unfruitful and frustration leads to anger. Disgruntled and disillusioned youths, who are unable to find suitable jobs in the market, easily take to violence. There is a need to invest more in primary education, health services and also in agriculture. Inequalities are growing and inequalities of income have also widened. In 2004, while the top 20 per cent of the population, about 200 million people, were earning about Rs. 20,000 per household, the bottom 20 per cent earned only a little above Rs. 4,000 a month and the last 10 per cent earned only a little above Rs. 3,500 per month, which is a pittance taking five members in a family. Since the economic reforms have begun, the 20 per cent have also benefited from tax reforms. The upper rich 20 per cent have benefited from tax reforms. The well-heeled middle class has a large disposable income and can afford many luxurious items and goods. India’s corporate sector has been flourishing and our corporate executives, according to The Economist magazine of London, are the highest paid in the world, but they are only a few thousands in number. Because of the middle class, India has become an important centre for the sale of western luxurious goods and internationally famous companies are appointed brand ambassadors for astronomical sums.  But the festering under-belly should also be focused upon. Otherwise, there will be dangers for the people living in fancy houses. After all, how can any city have the growth of slums and skyscrapers side by side, be it Delhi, Mumbai or any other urban centre of this country? Unless you increase and prioritise expenditure on infrastructure, build more roads and irrigation system, rural India will not be participating in this high growth process. As the year 2006 draws to a close, the Government is in the celebration mode as the economy is galloping towards double digit growth figure, but growth carries its own cost and that is inflation. Much as the Indian middle-class seduced by its own prosperity may belittle or ignore the figure, the fact that inflation in this country has peaked five per cent should be recognised.  World over, the prices of crude are falling to US $ 55 per barrel. They are US $ 20 lower than the level at which the Government hiked domestic petrol prices. Now, there is some reduction which you have made, but it does not commensurate with the fall of the prices internationally. More than fuel prices, it is the combination of domestic price increase that is contributing to the inflation rate’s steady climb. For a country that had declared itself self-sufficient in food decades ago, nothing is more scandalous than the scarcity of food grains and essential commodities that sends their prices soaring. The Consumer Price Index for industrial workers had spurted to 7.7 per cent. The reduction of exports or encouraging imports did little to contain the upward movement of price.[s58]  

The aggressive economic growth must be matched with adequate supply of goods and services or else inflation will shoot up. We have learnt this in the classrooms. The rising prices of essential commodities and vegetables have already made the Consumer Price Index grow by 8 per cent. Today, inflation is the associated evil of economic boom, which must be leashed to protect the poor. We would like to hear about the steps that you are taking to protect the poor from inflation, and the middle-class from the rise in prices. The economy is in the ultimate quarter of the current fiscal, and is at a time when the budgetary preparations for the year 2007-2008 have just begun. The Finance Minister -- the architect of the UPA’s fourth Budget -- has lost few chances to drive home the message of fiscal prudence to husband resources for development. I would now come to the concluding part of my speech. The major challenge being faced today by the States is their huge debt burden. The debt outstanding by the Orissa Government is around Rs. 38,000 crore. This is 58 per cent of the Gross State Domestic Product. It is a high-cost loan component, and there is need for a debt-back or debt-swap process to restructure the debt-stock for reducing the interest payment liability. There is a need to reset the interest component on the outstanding loan under the National Small Savings Security Fund (NSSSF). The interest rate is charged at 13.5 per cent to 10 per cent, whereas the 12th Finance Commission has recommended bringing it down to 7.5 per cent. I would like to state that this NSSSF is not included in it. I would also urge upon the Government regarding concessional agriculture loan, which is being provided by the cooperative banks. Dr. M. S. Swaminathan Commission has recommended that the agriculture loan should be provided to the farmers at 4 per cent. It is not a high-end loan. It is only between Rs. 1 lakh and Rs. 3 lakh that certain farmers take. It is a short-term loan, and I do not see any problem if you scale it down to 4 per cent. Similarly, the enhancement of royalty of coal was also an issue, which should be looked into. Another aspect is about the Eklavya model residential school. Please bring it at par … (Interruptions) सभापति महोदय : आपका भाषण अब लिखा नहीं जा रहा है। (Interruptions) … * 

SHRI B. MAHTAB : Sir, please allow me to conclude my speech. Please give me one minute to speak on this issue. सभापति महोदय: अब आप अपना भाषण समाप्त कीजिए। अंतिम वाक्य कह दीजिए। SHRI B. MAHTAB : I would only like to say bring  it at par with Navodaya Vidyalaya at par with Eklavya Vidyalaya because this is specifically meant for the Scheduled Tribes. With these words, I conclude my speech. * Not recorded 
 

SHRI C.K. CHANDRAPPAN ( TRICHUR ): Sir, two reports were published in the recent past, and these reports gave a shock to our people. One was the latest National Sample Survey Report, and the second was the Sachar Committee Report on the status of the Muslims in India. I am referring to these two reports because the rich are becoming richer, and the poor are becoming poorer. The National Sample Survey shows many things, but I do not have the time at my disposal to go through it in detail.[r59]   But we are seeing now a new phenomenon. In the 70s, 80s and 90s we were very familiar with Indian monopoly houses, big capitalist monopoly houses like Tatas and Birlas and all that.  In the 21st century we are seeing most of these old Indian monopoly houses are becoming transnational companies. This is one phenomenon which is very disturbing. Now, one company like Tata can go to England and just outright purchase, spending Rs.23,000 crore, a big steel complex. We can say this is the achievement of India. We can say that the Indian capital has crossed the seas. Similarly, you can see all those monopoly houses of the 70s, 80s and 90s are today looking for new grazing grounds not only in India but abroad. The Government thinks that this is one very good thing that is happening. On the other side, the National Sample Survey says that the poverty alleviation programmes that were covering the eight-year period after the liberalization and globalization, you have many, had very marginal impact on the life of the common people. So, there was only marginal improvement in the life of the poor, downtrodden masses. There is just two to three per cent improvement in their life. But in the life of the affluent ones and the most affluent ones, there is a big jump.  That is what the National Sample Survey has shown. So, whatever declarations we make from the ramparts of the Red Fort about the future tryst with destiny and all that, this is the ground reality. This comprehensive report of the Sachchar Committee has been submitted on the status of a certain section of a community who are very backward and poor. They are small in number. They constitute nearly 14 per cent of the population, to be precise 13.41 per cent of the population. They live the life unimaginable in every respect of it. And then, this National Sample Survey mentions the rural and urban divide and says that the rural poor are becoming poorer and there are less employment opportunities for them. The urban rich are making a heyday. So, I would like the Government to look into this with a little sense of retrospection. Two years have already passed. They cannot any more say that there is time and they will go slow, and that they will do things carefully. I say that hardly there is any time left for doing things carefully. These two and a half years which you lost is very important. Four or five elections are coming now. You will find that people will judge whatever big declarations you will make on the basis of their experience. The experience is this. The National Sample Survey says the economic growth that we have achieved in our country on the whole, if you look at it, is a growth without much employment generation. That is the most dangerous part of that economic development about which we are speaking. Economic development with social justice, that was the slogan given by the Indian national movement in the days of the freedom movement. Here, social justice is denied to vast majority of people, the rural people, and the poor people, everyday.[r60]  

            All the facilities are provided to the rich to become further richer. So, this is how we look at the general situation. Coming to some of the specific things – the question of inflation – the Prime Minister in his speech has also said that we are trying to contain it but there is a danger of inflation.  It is steadily growing.  The Finance Minister is here.  Last week, there has been some point/decimal decrease.  I must say that there is a lesson for the Government to take from that.  In this House, last year, we were all demanding that the Government should not enhance the price of petroleum to a limit which cannot be justifiable.  What happened?  It had a cascading effect on our economy.  There was a general price rise, right  from vegetables to stationery.  The prices of  essential commodities and everything have gone up.  Inflation is gradually creeping into a level which is disturbing. It has been just now mentioned that in the international market, crude oil price has come down.  The Left Parties made a proposal to the Government saying that the Government should pass on that difference to the common people.  The Government should not have enhanced the prices of petroleum commodities to the level that you had hiked last year.  Now, when there is a favourable situation, the Government should have brought it down but the Government is like a miser opening his small little bag. The Government wanted to reduce 25 paise when there was a revolt in the House and when we walked out.  Probably, the Government has said that the concession would be Re.1 for diesel and Rs.2 for petrol.  No, the Government should reverse the whole thing to the level at which it has enhanced last year. Economists and journalists are saying that with this small reduction, inflation level has come down. If the Government takes a reasonable stand on  the oil prices, the inflation rate would come down.   I would like the Government to look into that. I would like to raise certain specific things – for example, agrarian sector, about which there is nothing much to say. 17.33 hrs.                  ( Dr. Satyanarayan Jatiya in the Chair) 

MR. CHAIRMAN  : Please conclude. SHRI C.K. CHANDRAPPAN : You just came and wanted me to conclude. MR. CHAIRMAN: I am just indicating to you that I have arrived. SHRI C.K. CHANDRAPPAN : I just started.  I do not generally take too much time. MR. CHAIRMAN:  Your Party is allotted four minutes. SHRI C.K. CHANDRAPPAN : Do not look at it like that - four or four and a half minutes.  Please see as to how much time other speakers have taken.  I am not directing you. Do not take it that way. In the agrarian sector, one of the most important problems is, every agrarian economist pointed out that the investment in this sector is steadily coming down. Your Economic Survey also had stated that. The Government wants to raise the contribution of agriculture towards GDP. The Prime Minister has stated that with the expected economic growth of nine or ten per cent, if that has to be sustainable, then four per cent minimum rate of growth should be there. Are the Government anywhere near that?  The Government started its days with 1.2 per cent and it has improved to 1.8 per cent.  But what is required is four percent plus.  But is the Government reaching anywhere there? If we take the average situation of the economy, the Government is not investing sufficiently to meet the alarming situation in the agrarian sector.  [r61]  

So, my request is, of course, in a Supplementary Demand you cannot do it, but you will have to think about it. In the Supplementary Demand there are provisions for meeting the indebtedness in the wake of nation-wide suicide of peasants.  The Government had announced some packages and all that for which it is asking money.  Packages are good, very much welcomed, but they are just like fire fighting operations.  When there is a fire, you have to fight it.  You have to provide by way of more investment.  You have to provide by way of a policy that agriculture will not be a losing proposition.  You have to give them insurance protection because that is one sector where there is hardly any insurance protection or whatever is there is against the peasants.  I think, Shri Rao was mentioning about the existing agricultural insurance policies.  He had said that presently the policy is against the peasants and so, it has to radically reform if the peasants have to get the benefit.  They have to sell their products in distress market.  There should be a marketing support system by which you will be able to ensure that the peasants will get reasonable, remunerative prices for their produce.  That has to be assured but the Government is not doing that. MR. CHAIRMAN: Please conclude.  You have already taken ten minutes.  There are 17 more Members to speak. SHRI C.K. CHANDRAPPAN : Some of the Demands are in the health sector.  You are speaking of research and development against Chikungunya, the disease that has almost devastated many places in Kerala, especially the Alleppy district and the place called Chennithala from where I come.  The other States are also affected.  We had a discussion in Andhra Pradesh. I must say that no conceivable remedy has been found out.  The Vector Control Organisation with its Headquarters in Pondicherry is hardly doing anything in Kerala.  There was a Centre in Chennithala where this Chikungunya epidemic broke out, but nothing has been done so far.  There is a Communicable Disease Laboratory.  They asked for a building and said that they would do something worthwhile.  We provided them a place but the laboratory is not coming up there.  People are dying almost like flies, one can say.  In such a situation, the Government of India should take more determined position so that people’s lives will be saved. About the National Inland Waterways and National Highways, there is a Demand.  Kerala is a State where maximum waterways are there but that is a State where minimum money is spent and minimum achievement has been made.  So, that is an area where you should think about … (Interruptions) I am on my last sentence. There is another thing about the National Highways.    In Kerala the work on the National Highways is moving at a snail’s pace.  Decisions are there but nothing is being done.  Things are progressing very slowly.  If something is done about all these things, we will say all right, we support the Demand. gÉÉÒ ®ÉÊiÉãÉÉãÉ BÉEÉãÉÉÒnÉºÉ ´ÉàÉÉÇ (vÉxvÉÖBÉEÉ) :सभापति महोदय, २००६-०७ की वित्त मंत्रालय की पूरक मांगों का मैं समर्थन करता हूं, लेकिन अपने कुछ विचार व्यक्त करना चाहता हूं। पूरक मांगें सदन में बार-बार लाई जाती हैं और वे आवश्यक भी हैं। जो अधूरे कार्य हैं, उनको पूरा करने के लिए पूरक मांगें लाई जाती हैं। इससे पहले जब बजट पेश किया गया था, तब माननीय वित्त मंत्री जी की ओर से बहुत सी बातें कही गई थीं, बहुत सारे आश्वासन दिये गये थे, जिनकी शुरूआत में बहुत सराहना भी हुई, लेकिन जैसे-जैसे दिन बीतते गए, वैसे-वैसे वास्तविक स्थिति क्या है, वह लोगों के सामने आने लगी। पूरे देश के लोग गरीब से लेकर अमीर तक, सभी एनडीए की सरकार को याद करने लगे। महत्व की बात यह है कि जब वास्तविकता सामने आई, तब देखा गया कि आज देश की अर्थव्यवस्था तरह तरह के विरोधाभासों से रूबरू हो रही है। एक ओर सूचकांक १३००० के जाली आंकड़े को पार कर गया तो दूसरी ओर किसानों द्वारा खुदकुशी करने की घटनाएं बढ़ रही हैं। जब बजट पर मंत्री जी बोल रह थे, तब भी ऐसी घटनाएं होती थीं। तब आश्वासन दिया गया था कि इसमें कमी होगी लेकिन इसमें कमी नहीं हुई। खुदकुशी करने वालों की संख्या बढ़ने लगी, परिणामस्वरूप महाराष्ट्र से लेकर साउथ तक लोग परेशानी झेल रहे हैं। एक ओर अर्थव्यवस्था में आठ प्रतिशत और उससे ज्यादा का विकास हो रहा है, वहीं दूसरी ओर आवासीय ऋणों की ब्याज दरें बढ़ाने के लिए माननीय वित्त मंत्री जी अपना मन बना रहे हैं। वास्तविकता यह है कि जहां आवश्यक वस्तुओं के मूल्य कम करने के लिए कहा गया था, उनको स्थिर रखने की बात कही गई थी, लेकिन वे मूल्य भी स्थिर नहीं रहे। आज आवश्यक वस्तुओं के दाम इतने बढ़ गए कि गरीब के लिए जीना मुश्किल हो गया। उसे दो वक्त की रोटी नहीं मिल रही है। वह परेशान है और अपने आपको कोस रहा है। इसके साथ साथ अल्पकालिक ब्याज दरों में भी वृद्धि हो रही है। इससे न तो आम आदमी को फायदा हो रहा है और न ही अन्य लोगों को फायदा हो रहा है। आवासीय ऋण का ब्याज इतना बढ़ता जा रहा है कि अब कोई लोन लेने के लिए तैयार नहीं है। एनडीए की सरकार के समय में यह रेट इतना कम था कि लोग बैंकों के सामने दौड़ते थे और आज लाखों करोड़ों लोग अपने खुद के मकानों में रह रहे हैं और एनडीए सरकार को याद करके उसे आशीर्वाद दे रहे हैं। सभापति महोदय, एनडीए के समय में आवासीय ऋणों पर ब्याज दर ११ प्रतिशत से घटाकर ७ प्रतिशत तक की गई थी। आज इसे बढ़ाने की बात आप सोच रहे हैं। इसका परिणाम क्या होगा कि आवासीय उद्योग ठंडा पड़जाएगा। उसमें मज़दूरी करने वाले लाखों गरीब लोगों के सामने रोज़ी रोटी की समस्या खड़ी हो जाएगी। मेरे पूर्ववक्ता ने बताया कि जहां एक ओर विकास हो रहा है, यदि विकास के चलते लोगों को रोज़ी रोटी नहीं मिलेगी, रोज़गार नहीं मिलेगा तो वह विकास किसी काम का नहीं है। देश के लिए यह बहुत बड़ा खतरा हो सकता है। आश्चर्य यह है कि एनडीए सरकार ने उच्च ब्याज दर वाली शासन व्यवस्था को शुरुआत में घटाया, लेकिन अब वित्त मंत्री घड़ी की सुई का कांटा उल्टा फिरा रहे हैं। उल्टा फिराकर लोगों को और मुसीबत में डाल रहे हैं। सरकार के पास जो मौका था, वह गँवा दिया है। अब वह इसे ठीक नहीं कर पाएंगे, ऐसा मेरा मानना है। एनडीए ने किसानों को कृषि संकट से बचाने के लिए पूरे रास्ते खोल दिये थे। गेहूँ, चावल, कॉटन के उचित दाम उनको समय पर मिलते थे, लेकिन वे आज नहीं मिल रहे हैं। इस कारण भी किसान बहुत परेशान हैं। आपने जो दाम निश्चित किये, प्रति क्िंवटल ७०० रुपये दिये जाने से भी देश के किसान नाराज़ हैं। यहां अपने लोग परेशान हैं। एनडीए सरकार आस्ट्रेलिया के किसानों को ९०० रुपये प्रति क्िंवटल का भुगतान करती है, लेकिन भारतीय किसानों को वह दाम देने के लिए तैयार नहीं है। आज ही प्रश्नकाल में एक माननीय सदस्य ने यह सवाल उठाया था कि गेहूं यहां से बाहर गया और बाहर से फिर हमने आयात किया। हमारे देश के किसान जो इस भूमि से जुड़े हुए हैं, उनको यह सरकार कुछ नहीं देना चाहती। अगर सरकार अपने गोदामों को अपने ही गेहूं से भरना चाहती है तो किसानों को उचित दाम देने पड़ेंगे, नहीं तो भारी भरकम बनाए हुए गोदाम खाली पड़े रहेंगे। उस गोदाम से जो गेहूं और चावल इस देश के गरीबों को बांटा जाता था, वह जब उनको नहीं मिलेगा तो सार्वजनिक वितरण प्रणाली का ढांचा टूट जाएगा। इसलिए मेरी माननीय मंत्री जी से विनती है कि हमारे देश के गोदाम अनाज से ही भरे जाएं ताकि लोग भूखे न मरें। प्रधान मंत्री जी ने भी आत्महत्या रोकने के लिए आश्वासन दिया, वे भी दुखे हुए और सभी सांसद दुखी हुए, लेकिन इससे फायदा क्या? छोटे और सीमांत किसानों के कर्ज को माफ करने तथा उचित न्याय दिलाने के लिए आपने आश्वासन दिया है। अगर यह आश्वासन पूरा नहीं होगा तो इस देश का किसान आपको कभी माफ नहीं करेगा, यूपीए सरकार को माफ नहीं करेंगे। एक कहावत है - कबीर हाय गरीब की कभी न खाली जाए, मुए ढोल के चर्म से लोहा भस्म हो जाए। देश के गरीब किसान, आत्महत्या करने वाले किसानों की अगर हाय लगेगी तो यूपीए सरकार तो क्या, आपका रहना भी मुश्किल हो जाएगा। इसलिए मेरी मांग है कि कृषि को बीमार उद्योग मानते हुए सरकार को किसानों के लिए उसी तरह का पैकेज बनाना चाहिए, जिस तरह बीमार उद्योगों के कर्जों का सामधान किया जाता है, उसी तरह इनका भी समाधान किया जाए। कृषि संकट की मूल वजह अलाभकारी मूल्यों का भुगतान है, जिससे कर्जों का बोझ बढ़ जाता है और आत्महत्याएं होती हैं। जब तक इस दिशा में सुधार नहीं होता तब तक गरीब और मजदूर किसानों को, जो आत्महत्या करते हैं, उन्हें आप रोक नहीं पाएंगे। महोदय, माननीय वित्त मंत्री जी ने कर चोरों के बारे में बहुत कहा। मंत्री जी कहते हैं कि अब कोई कर चोरी करने वाला छिपा नहीं रहेगा। मंत्री जी ने उनके लिए सर्च ईंजन स्थापित किया है, यह अच्छी बात है। यहां जो कर चोरी कर रहे हैं, उन्हें पकड़ना चाहिए, उसके लिए मैं आपका अभिनंदन करता हूं, लेकिन आज तक जिन्होंने करोड़ों रुपए की कर चोरी की, देश को लूटा, खोखला बना दिया, उनके लिए आप क्या करेंगे? आपने दावा किया है कि आपके पास जितनी जानकारी नहीं है, उससे ज्यादा जानकारी हमने उपलब्ध कराई है। मैं आशा करता हूं कि वह जानकारी आपको अच्छा लाभ पहुंचाए। इसके लिए आपने चेन्नई, मुंबई, दिल्ली और कोलकत्ता जैसे बड़े शहरों को पसंद किया है। मैं गुजरात से आता हूं और वहां का १७ सालों से प्रतनधित्व करता हूं। गुजरात की जनता व्यापार ज्यादा करती है। वहां के लोग एक्साइज़, कस्टम, सेल्स टैक्स हो या किसी भी तरह का टैक्स हो, उसे पूरा भरते हैं। इतना ही नहीं, अगर कोई रेलवे में बैठता है तो बिना टिकट के यात्रा नहीं करता, फिर भी गुजरात के साथ इतना अन्याय, आपकी तरफ से हर तरह से गुजरात के साथ अन्याय किया जा रहा है। वहां बैंकों में सबसे ज्यादा डिपोजिट है लेकिन लोन अन्य जगह दिया जाता है। गुजरात के अंदर सबसे ज्यादा ऑयल निकलता है, बॉम्बे हाई के बाद गुजरात का नम्बर आता है, मगर उसे रायल्टी नहीं दी जाती। अभी हाल ही में गुजरात ने कितनी मुसीबतें झेलीं, वहां तूफान आया, उसके अंदर गुजरात खड़ा हुआ। वहां भुकम्प आया, पूरा कच्छ उससे प्रभावित हुआ। वहां लाखों-करोड़ों रुपए का नुकसान हुआ और अनेक लोग मारे गए, फिर भी गुजरात खड़ा हुआ। सूरत में भी बाढ़ आई और यह देश का ऐसा शहर है, जिसे नम्बर वन करार दिया गया था - वहां जब बाढ़ आई तो लोग परेशान हो गए। माननीय प्रधान मंत्री जी और हमारे लीडर्स वहां गए और जाकर उन्होंने आश्वासन दिया, मदद करने के लिए उन्हें पैकेज दिया, लेकिन कितने रुपए दिए, मैं आंकड़ों में जाना नहीं चाहता हूं। वहां ये बड़ी-बड़ी बातें करके आए, बड़े आश्वासन दिए, वहां उन्होंने पूरी रिपोर्ट आपके सामने रखी, मांग रखी, लेकिन वह मांग आपने स्वीकृत नहीं की। जिस तरह उड़ीसा के मेरे मित्र ने कहा कि आप एडवांस में दें। आप उनके कर्जे माफ करें, उन्होंने बहुत झेला है। मैं आपसे मांग करता हूं कि गुजरात ने जो पूरी रिपोर्ट रखी है, उसे आप शीघ्र ही पूरा करेंगे, ऐसी मेरी आपसे प्रार्थना है। आपको यह भी जानकर ताज्जुब होगा कि गुजरात के अंदर हर कोई, मैंने जो डिपार्टमेंट गिनाए, उसके अधिकारी वहीं पर स्थापित होना चाहते हैं। वे रिटायर होने के बाद वहीं स्थाई हो जाते हैं, इसकी मुझे खुशी है। अगर गुजरात में ईमानदार करदाता है तो उन्हें परेशान न किया जाए। हम पेपर में पढ़ते हैं कि वहां छापा मारा गया और छापा मारने के बाद दूसरे दिन पढ़ते हैं कि वहां कुछ नहीं मिला। इससे आशंका होती है कि कहीं गड़बड़ होती है। पूरा पैसा देश की तिजोरी में आना चाहिए, यह मैं चाहता हूं। [rep62]  

सभापति महोदय :+ÉÉ{É BÉßE{ÉªÉÉ +É{ÉxÉä ºÉÖZÉÉ´É näBÉE® ¤ÉÉiÉ {ÉÚ®ÉÒ BÉE®å*     

श्री रतिलाल कालीदास वर्मा : महोदय, मैंने गुजरात के बारे में कहा। गुजरात के लोग आपके यहां आते रहते हैं। आप सभी राज्यों को पैसा देते हैं, लेकिन गुजरात को नहीं देते हैं। जो पैसे गुजरात को सहायता के लिए देते हैं, वह एडवांस के रूप में देते हैं, जिसे आप उसके बजट में समायोजित कर देते हैं। महोदय, नदियों को जोड़ने की बात यह सरकार करती रहती है, लेकिन उन्हें जोड़ने का काम नहीं करती। साउथ की नदियों को अभी तक नहीं जोड़ा गया है। हमारे यहां गुजरात में भारतीय जनता पार्टी की सरकार ने नौ नदियों को जोड़ा है। जिस नर्मदा का पानी पहले बहकर समुद्र में चला जाता था, अब उसका पानी गुजरात के खेतों को लहलहाने का काम कर रहा है। वहां के लोगों को पीने का पानी मिल रहा है। वह पानी राजस्थान के बहुत से भागों को सरसब्ज कर रहा है। कच्छ में नर्मदा का पानी पहुंच गया है। गुजरात में जब महामहिम गए, उन्होंने भी वहां की सरकार की तारीफ की। यहां गांवों की तो छोड़िए, शहरों में भी बिजली नहीं मिलती है। गुजरात के गांवों और शहरों में बराबर बिजली मिलती है। यह सरकार कृषि में ई-गवर्नेंस की बात कर रही है, हमारे यहां गुजरात में सरकार ने कृषि को ई-गवर्नेंस से जोड़ दिया है। हमारे किसानों को सब्सिडी नहीं दी जाती है। इफको किसानों की संस्था है। उसने एवार्ड भी प्राप्त किया है, लेकिन उसे सब्सिडी नहीं मिलती है। चूंकि आप मेरे बोलने पर रोक लगा रहे हैं, इसलिए में अन्त दो-तीन सुझाव देकर अपनी बात समाप्त कर दूंगा। सभापति महोदय : मैं रोक नहीं लगा रहा हूं। सबको बोलना है, इसलिए मैं आपसे निवेदन कर रहा हूं कि आप संक्षेप में अपनी बात कहकर समाप्त करें। ...(व्यवधान) श्री रतिलाल कालीदास वर्मा :आप गुजरात के प्रतनधि हैं और आप गुजरात के हित में नहीं बोलरहे हैं. यह ठीक नहीं है। …(व्यवधान) सभापति महोदय : श्री रतिलाल कालीदास वर्मा जी के भाषण के अतरिक्त अन्य किसी का भाषण रिकॉर्ड पर नहीं जाएगा। (Interruptions) …* 

 

 

 

 
 

 * Not recorded 
 श्री रतिलाल कालीदास वर्मा : महोदय, हमारे गुजरात राज्य के प्रतनधि ऊधर से कह रहे हैं कि गुजरात को किसी चीज की आवश्यकता नहीं है। मैं मानता हूं कि आप आने वाले चुनाव में भी यही कहेंगे। महोदय, अन्त में मेरा आपके माध्यम से सरकार से निवेदन है कि गुजरात के अनुसूचित जाति, अनुसूचित जनजाति एवं पिछड़ा वर्ग के छात्रों के लिए पैसे दिए जाएं और उन्हें पढ़ने के लिए आर्थिक सुविधाएं मिलनी चाहिए ताकि आने वाले दिनों में गुजरात के इन वर्गों के लोग देश की उन्नति में कदम से कदम मिलाकर आगे बढ़ सकें। गुजरात के बहुत से छात्र विदेशों में पढ़ने जाते हैं। उनमें से अनुसूचित जाति एवं जनजाति तथा पिछड़े वर्ग के छात्रों को आर्थिक सहायता दी जाए। मैं मानता हूं कि अनुसूचित जाति एवं जनजाति तथा पिछड़ा वर्ग के लोग बुद्धिबल में कम नहीं हैं, लेकिन आर्थिक बल में वे कमजोर हैं। इसलिए मेरा आग्रह है कि सरकार उनकी आर्थिक रूप से सहायता करे। देश में रिजर्वेशन के कारण उनके रोजगार की सीमा बंधी है, लेकिन विदेशों में उनके लिए दरवाजे खुले हैं। इसलिए इन जातियों के लोगों को विदेशों में पढ़ने के लिए आर्थिक सहायता प्रदान की जाए। डॉ. राजेश मिश्रा ( वाराणसी ): सभापति जी, मैं इस स्थान से बोलने की अनुमति चाहता हूं। सभापति महोदय: आपको वहां से बोलने की अनुमति है। यदि आप चाहें, तो और भी आगे आ सकते हैं। डॉ. राजेश मिश्रा : महोदय, चूंकि मेरी सीट अन्त में है, इसलिए मैं आगे आकर बोल रहा हूं। सभापति महोदय: आप अन्त में नहीं, सबसे आगे हैं। डॉ. राजेश मिश्रा : धन्यवाद मान्यवर। मैं आपका आभारी हूं कि आपने मुझे सदन में वर्ष २००४-२००५ के लिए प्रस्तुत अतरिक्त अनुदानों की मांगों (सामान्य) तथा वर्ष २००६-२००७ के लिए अनुदानों की अनुपूरक मांगों (सामान्य) पर हो रही चर्चा में भाग लेने की अनुमति प्रदान की है।[r63]  

 महोदय, मैं सप्लीमेंट्री बजट के समर्थन में बोलने के लिए खड़ा हुआ हूं। जब उन बेंचों से आवाज आती है, इस बजट के बारे में, हम उनकी बात को लगातार सुन रहे थे, पिछले ढाई साल में, जब से यह यूपीए सरकार सत्ता में आयी, उसके बाद से, हिंदुस्तान का जो अंतिम व्यक्ति है, जिसे हम आम आदमी कहते हैं, उसके सुधार के लिए जितनी योजनायें बनीं, यदि हम उन पर चर्चा करें, तो पहली बार हिंदुस्तान के अंदर ऐसा हुआ है कि एक सामान्य गरीब किसान, जो बैंकों से ऋण लेने जाता था और जो चौदह या पंद्रह प्रतिशत पर ऋण पाता था, पहली बार इस सरकार ने किया कि सात प्रतिशत दर पर अब किसान बैंकों से ऋण प्राप्त कर सकता है और अपने कार्य को चला सकता है। आज योजनाओं का सामान्य लाभ हिंदुस्तान के किसानों में दिखाई पड़ता है। जो किसान अपने काम के लिए पहले बैंकों से पैसा लेना चाहता है, उसे अब बैंकों को ऋण के रूप में उतनी रकम नहीं चुकानी पड़ती, जो इस सरकार के आने के पहले देनी पड़ती थी। इसी तरह और भी योजनाएं भारत सरकार ने लागू कीं। जब हम शिक्षा के क्षेत्र की बात करते हैं, चाहे जूनियर हाई स्कूल के निर्माण की बात हो, प्राइमरी स्कूल के निर्माण की बात हो, अभी आज ही एक यूनिवर्सिटी की स्थापना का बिल इस सम्मानित सदन में पेश हुआ था। शिक्षा के क्षेत्र में जिस तरह से इस सरकार ने ज्यादा से ज्यादा आर्थिक संसाधनों की उपलब्धता करायी है, उससे हमारी यूपीए की सरकार यह महसूस करती है कि यदि पूरे समाज का एक-एक बच्चा शक्षित होगा, तो हमारा समाज और देश तरक्की कर पाएगा। इसलिए इस सरकार ने शिक्षा के क्षेत्र में ज्यादा से ज्यादा कंट्रीब्यूट करने का प्रयास किया है। आजादी के बाद रोजगार के लिए तमाम सरकारें घोषणाएं तो करती थीं कि हम रोजगार प्रदान करेंगे, रोजगार दिलायेंगे, लेकिन एक कानूनी दर्जा रोजगार के लिए पहली बार यूपीए की सरकार ने ही दिया। आज जिस तरह दो सौ जनपदों में रोजगार गारंटी स्कीम लागू हुयी, हम इसके लिए बधाई देना चाहते हैं और इस तरह की स्कीम पर, चाहे जितना पैसा दिया जाए, हमें लगता है कि वह कम होगा। क्योंकि आज की तारीख में हमारे देश के अंदर जो बेरोजगारी की स्थिति है, पहली बार किसी सरकार ने चिंतित होकर, उसे कानूनी जामा पहनाने की कोशिश की है कि हम अपने यहां गरीब लोगों को रोजगार किस तरह से प्रदान करें। महोदय, एक स्कीम जो इस सरकार ने गांवों में लागू की, मैं उसके बारे में जरूर कहना चाहूंगा। हम यहां चर्चा किया करते हैं कि गांव में जो झुग्गी-झोपड़ी में रहता है, उसके घर में किस तरह हम रोशनी पहुंचा दें, इसकी हर सरकार के समय चर्चा होती थी। इस सरकार ने राजीव गांधी ग्रामीण विद्युत योजना के तहत, जिस तरह पहले जो स्कीम लांच की, उसमें यह निर्णय हुआ कि हिंदुस्तान के हर गांव को बिजली से जोड़ा जाएगा। उसके बाद यह समस्या आयी कि तमाम ऐसे गांव थे, जो मुख्य हिस्सा गांव का होता था, वहां तो बिजली होती थी, लेकिन गांव के जो और तीन-चार पार्ट होते थे, जिन्हें देश के अन्य भागों में अलग-अलग नाम से जाना जाता है, हमारे यहां उत्तर प्रदेश में उन्हें पूर्वे कहा जाता है, एक गांव में छ:, सात या आठ पूर्वे होते हैं, यदि गांव के मेन पार्ट में बिजली होती थी, तो गांव के दूसरे भाग में बिजली नहीं हुआ करती थी। लेकिन यह सरकार राजीव गांधी ग्रामीण विद्युत योजना स्कीम लायी और इस स्कीम के तहत हिंदुस्तान के हर गांव के हर घर को बिजली देने का संकल्प लिया। हम तारीफ करते हैं और यदि यह स्कीम पूरी तरह से कार्यान्वित हो जाए, तो निश्चित रूप से इसका पूरा लाभ हिंदुस्तान के आम आदमी जो गांव में रहता है, उसे मिलेगा। इसी तरह इंदिरा आवास योजना है, जिसका उद्देश्य है कि हर गांव के हर इंसान को आवास मिल जाए। इसी तरह सरकार ने स्वास्थ्य बीमा स्कीम लागू की। यूपीए सकार का जो एक एजेंडा हेल्थ मिशन का था, उसमें इन्होंने हर गांव में न्याय पंचायत स्तर पर आशा नाम की एक महिला की नियुक्ति की और उसके द्वारा घर-घर जाकर लोगों को दवा उपलबध कराना और उनके स्वास्थ्य की जांच करने की व्यवस्था की गयी, जो सरकार की बहुत बड़ी उपलब्धि है। गांव का गरीब से गरीब व्यक्ति और महिला, जो शहर में नहीं पहुंच सकती, उसे किस तरह स्वास्थ्य लाभ कराया जाए, इस बारे में विचार करके उसे भी सुविधा देने का काम सरकार ने किया है। [v64]  

  
 

 18.00 hrs. ºÉ£ÉÉ{ÉÉÊiÉ àÉcÉänªÉ : चूंकि छ: बज रहे हैं और छ : बजे सदन का निर्धारित समय पूरा हो जाता है, इसलिए मैं सदन से अनुमति चाहूंगा कि इन मांगों के पूरा होने तक चर्चा जारी रखी जाए। मेरा सभी वक्ताओं से अनुरोध है कि वे अपनी बात संक्षेप में कहें, सारगर्भित हो और अच्छा भाषण करने में ज्यादा देर न लगाएं। राजेश जी, आप दो मिनट में अपनी बात समाप्त कीजिए। डॉ. राजेश मिश्रा : सभापति महोदय, मैंने अभी डेढ़, दो मिनट ही बोला है। सभापति महोदय : आप अपना कनक्लूजन बोल दीजिए कि क्या चाहते हैं। ...(व्यवधान) डॉ. राजेश मिश्रा : डेढ़, दो मिनट में मैं कौन सी लाइन बोल सकता हूं जो कनक्लूजन में हो सकती है।…(व्यवधान)  मैं जिक्र कर रहा था कि चाहे रोजगार का क्षेत्र हो, किसान का क्षेत्र हो, गांव के अंतिम व्यक्ति के दरवाजे पर बिजली पहुंचाने की बात हो या उसे स्वास्थ्य देने की बात हो, इस सरकार ने हर क्षेत्र में प्रयास किया। हम आपके माध्यम से सरकार और वित्त मंत्री जी से कहना चाहते हैं कि जहां सदन में चर्चा होती है कि हम गरीबों के कल्याण के लिए जो योजनाएं बना रहे हैं, उनका लाभ उन्हें नहीं मिल पाता है। हम अनुरोध करना चाहते हैं कि आपकी जो भी स्कीम बनती है, आप उसकी मौनीटरिंग करवाइए, चाहे वह ग्रामीण रोजगार गारंटी स्कीम है, जवाहर लाल नेहरू अर्बन डैवलपमैंट मिशन स्कीम है, जो काफी बढि़या स्कीम है। उत्तर प्रदेश के हालात यह हैं कि इस स्कीम को एक साल हो गया…(व्यवधान)  उत्तर प्रदेश सरकार सीडीपी और डीपीआर आज तक दिल्ली को नहीं भेज पाई। हम मंत्री जी से कहना चाहते हैं कि आप खुद मौनीटरिंग करवाइए, डीपीआर और सीडीपी केन्द्र सरकार बनवाए, पैसा हम देते हैं, हमारे पैसों का वहां उपयोग नहीं होता, आम आदमी को उसका लाभ नहीं मिल पा रहा है।…(व्यवधान)  आप सीडीपी और डीपीआर बनवाकर उस स्कीम को लान्च करवाइए। हम सच्चर कमेटी के बारे में कहना चाहते हैं।…(व्यवधान)  आज सच्चर कमेटी की रिपोर्ट पूरे हिन्दुस्तान के सामने आई है। कुछ लोग राजनीतिक लाभ लेने के लिए प्रधान मंत्री जी के बयान को तोड़-मरोड़कर उसका विरोध करना चाहते हैं।…(व्यवधान) यदि एक मां के दो बेटे हैं।…(व्यवधान) सभापति महोदय :     आप विषय पर बोलिए। डॉ. राजेश मिश्रा : एक बेटे को आजादी के साठ साल बाद लाभ मिला है और दूसरे को नहीं मिला। यदि प्रधान मंत्री जी कहते हैं कि दूसरे बेटे को भी लाभ मिलना चाहिए, तो इसमें क्या बुराई है।…(व्यवधान) डॉ. राजेश मिश्रा :राजनीतिक लाभ न लेते हुए भारत सरकार की जो स्कीम्स हैं, उन सारी स्कीम्स की केन्द्र सरकार मौनीटरिंग करवाए। उत्तर प्रदेश में चुनाव सिर पर हैं। केन्द्र सरकार ने जो पैसा दिया है, माननीय मुख्य मंत्री जी उसे कन्या धन के नाम पर और बेरोजगारी भत्ते के नाम पर दे रहे हैं। जब चुनाव सिर पर आ गया तो उन्हें ध्यान आ गया कि हमें बेरोजगारों को भत्ता देना है, कन्या धन देना है।…(व्यवधान)  केन्द्र सरकार द्वारा भेजे गए सारे पैसे को डायवर्ट करके चुनावी लाभ के लिए इस तरह का काम किया जा रहा है।…(व्यवधान) हम आपके आभारी हैं कि आपने हमें बोलने की इजाजत दी। मेरा केन्द्र सरकार से अनुरोध होगा कि आप पैसे की, योजनाओं की मौनीटरिंग के लिए निश्चित रूप से कोई न कोई स्कीम अलग से लान्च करें। SHRI PRASANNA ACHARYA ( SAMBALPUR ): Sir, can I lay my speech on Table of the House? MR. CHAIRMAN : Yes. यदि और कोई माननीय सदस्य अपना भाषण ले करना चाहते हैं, तो कर दें। श्री मित्रसेन यादव ( फैजाबाद ) : सभापति महोदय, अर्थव्यवस्था के विशेषज्ञ और वित्त मंत्री जी ने अनुपूरकबजट के लिए जो मांग प्रस्तुत की है, मैं उसका समर्थन करता हूं। लेकिन जितना गंभीर विषय है, मंत्री जी उसके बारे में हमें उतने गंभीर नहीं लगते। किसी देश की अर्थव्यवस्था के दो पहलू हैं - उद्योग और कृषि। जैसे किसी गाड़ी के दो पहिए होते हैं, वैसे किसी देश की अर्थव्यवस्था के उद्योग और कृषि दो पहिए हैं। उद्योग और कृषि में जो अंतर रखा गया है, उसका कारण है कि कृषि में रहने वाले लोग गरीब होते जा रहे हैं और उद्योग के क्षेत्र में लोग सम्पन्न होते जा रहे हैं, क्योंकि उद्योगों को जो सुविधाएं दी जाती हैं, उन्हें जो कर्ज दिया जाता है, उन पर जो ब्याज दिया जाता है, उनका नुकसान होने पर जो सबसिडी दी जाती है, वह किसी प्रकार के उद्योग हों, वह सहूलियत किसानों को नहीं दी जाती। न उसे सस्ती दर पर कर्जा दिया जाता है, न उनकी फसल का बीमा होता है, न देवी आपदाओं में किसी प्रकार की राहत दी जाती है और न ही उनके गांवों का सही मूल्यांकन होता है। यहां तक कि जो कृषि विश्वविद्यालय हैं, उनके यहां जो उत्पादन लागत आती है, उसको किसान की उत्पादन लागत के मुताबिक भी नहीं दिया जाता। सरकार अपने पैसे से, अपनी मशीनरी से, कृषि विश्वविद्यालय द्वारा गन्ने का उत्पादन करता है, उसमें जो उत्पादन लागत आती है और किसान के खेत में जो अनाज पैदा होता है, उस पर जो उत्पादन लागत आती है, उसमें भी जमीन-आसमान का फर्क होता है। लेकिन सरकार कभी अपनी उत्पादन लागत के बराबर भी किसानों को उत्पादन लागत नहीं देती। यहां तक कि अभी तक गन्ने का दाम भी निश्चित नहीं हुआ है जबकि गन्ना मिलों को जाने लगा है। हमारा आपसे निवेदन है कि उद्योगपतियों, कारोबारियों और किसानों के बीच उत्पादन और सहूलियतों का जो फर्क है, वह नहीं होना चाहिए। इसलिए कहा गया है कि कृषि को भी उद्योग के समान दर्जा दिया जाये। हमारी वित्त मंत्री जी से मांग है कि कृषि को भी उद्योग के समान दर्जा दिया जाये। दूसरी बात यह है कि जो गरीबी बढ़ रही है, वह कोई देवी आपदा नहीं है। यह तो मनुष्य द्वारा बनायी गयी व्यवस्था का ढांचा है। इसके लिए कोई और दोषी नहीं है। दुनिया में अर्थव्यवस्था की जिस प्रकार की गाड़ी चलायी गयी है, उसी तरीके से गरीबी-अमीरी की खाई बनी है। सभापति महोदय, सरकार ने रोजगार गारंटी योजना लागू की है। चीन में गांव के लोगों के पास अगर खेत कम है, तो हर गांव में हर तरीके का ऑल्टरनेटिव तैयार किया हुआ है। वहां दूध का उत्पादन होता है। मछली पालन, बकरी पालन, सुअर पालन, मुर्गी पालन आदि होता है। चीन में हर गांव के अंदर खेती के बराबर ग्रामीण उद्योग चला दिये गये हैं जबकि हमारे यहां क्या किया गया है? रोजगार गारंटी योजना देश के दो हजार जिलों में लागू की गयी है, लेकिन सरकार पैसा खाई पाटने और खोदने के लिए दे रही है। उससे किसी प्रकार का प्रोडक्शन नहीं हो रहा है। हमें मीन्स ऑफ प्रोडक्शन पैदा करने की जरूरत है। यहां मीन्स ऑफ प्रोडक्शन निजी हाथों में जा रहा है। अगर निजी हाथों में किसी देश के उत्पादन का रुाोत जाता है, तो मुनाफा और पूंजी दोनों पूंजीपतियों के हाथ में जाता है। इससे आम समाज विकास की गति से अवरुद्ध हो जाता है। इसलिए हमारा वित्त मंत्री जी से निवेदन है कि भारत में बढ़ती हुई गरीबी- अमीरी और सभी क्षेत्रों में जो अभाव हो रहा है, महंगाई बढ़ रही है, चीजों के दाम बढ़ रहे हैं, मनिमम आवश्यकता की चीजें चाहे दवाइयां हों, सेवाएं हों या रोजमर्रा के खाद्यान्न की कीमतें हों, उन सबका बोझ गरीबों पर पड़ रहा है। 18.08 hrs.                  (Shri Varkala Radhakrishnan in the Chair) 

 इसलिए हमें ऐसी व्यवस्था बनानी चाहिए जिससे यह बोझ गरीबों पर न पड़े। सिंचाई के क्षेत्र में मैंने देखा कि देश के बड़े-बड़े प्रौजेक्ट्स कई सालों से लंबित पड़े हुए हैं। हमारे उत्तर प्रदेश में सिंचाई के न मालूम कितने प्रौजेक्ट्स लंबित पड़े हुए हैं। उत्पादन के क्षेत्र में बगैर बिजली के कोई काम नहीं हो सकता। ऊर्जा का उत्पादन नहीं किया जा रहा, जिससे हमारे देश की आर्थिक सम्पत्ति बढ़े। हम आर्थिक रूप से मजबूत हों, आर्थिक रूप से अपने पैरों पर खड़े हो सकें। इस तरीके का काम हमें वित्त मंत्री जी की किसी योजना में दिखाई नहीं पड़ता। उसी का कारण है कि गरीबी बढ़ती जा रही है और मीन्स ऑफ प्रोडक्शन प्राइवेट हाथों में होने के कारण अमीरों का शोषण बढ़ता जा रहा है। हमारे सामने देश के बहुत से आर्थिक विशेषज्ञों की रिपोर्ट पड़ी हैं। माननीय मंत्री जी, उस बारे में आकंड़ों सहित अपने तर्क पेश करेंगे। हम लोगों के पास इतने आंकड़े नहीं हैं कि हम आंकड़ों से यह सिद्ध करने की कोशिश करें कि देश में गरीबी, अमीरी और महंगाई कैसे बढ़ रही है। इसका सीधा-सीधा आंकड़ा आपके सामने है कि सभी क्षेत्रों में महंगाई बढ़ती जा रही है, गरीबों पर बोझ बढ़ता जा रहा है, कृषि उत्पादों की लागत नहीं मिल रही है, किसानों को किसी प्रकार की सब्सिडी नहीं मिल रही है। हमारे देश में कुछ चीजें ऐसी हैं, जिनकी ओर अगर हमारे वित्तमंत्री जी ध्यान दे दें तो एक अच्छा उद्योग चल सकता है। हमारे देश में भौतिक संपदा बहुत है और इसके जरिए बहुत सी मेडसिन्स तैयार की जा सकती हैं। इस देश में इतनी जड़ी-बूटियां हैं जिनसे आयुर्वेद का बहुत बड़ा कारोबार चल सकता है, जिसके लिए हमें पैसा लगाकर कुछ भी खरीद कर नहीं लाना है, जिसके लिए कोई खदान नहीं करना है, जिसमें कुछ असेंबल नहीं करना है। अगर इस देश के अन्दर वनस्पतियों के जरिए आयुर्वेदिक दवाइयों का ही उद्योग खोल दिया जाए तो हमारे देश में बेकारी को हल करने का एक बहुत बड़ा रास्ता निकल सकता है। इसलिए हमारे वित्तमंत्री जी को अर्थव्यवस्था को ठीक करने के लिए औद्योगिक क्षेत्र और कृषि क्षेत्र में जो असमानता है, उसे दूर करना पड़ेगा और जो हमारे मीन्स ऑफ प्रोडक्शन हैं, उनको भली प्रकार से नियोजित करके लोगों के काम करने का मार्ग प्रशस्त करना पड़ेगा जिससे बेकारी और भुखमरी समाप्त हो। अगर ये चीजें नहीं की जाएंगी तो अर्थव्यवस्था के बारे में ये जो मांगे की जाती हैं, वे रस्म अदायगी मात्र रह जाएंगी। यहां पार्लियामेंट में इस तरह की रस्म अदायगी होती रहेगी, लेकिन देश के सामने जो समस्याएं हैं, जो लोगों के दुख और दर्द हैं, उनका कोई समाधान नहीं हो सकेगा। MR. CHAIRMAN : I have a request to all the hon. Members. Please confine your speeches within the time allotted because we have a number of speakers to speak. When the first bell is given, they should get ready for concluding their speeches. Now, Prof. M. Ramadass will speak now. I would like him to set an example for others. SHRI PRASANNA ACHARYA ( SAMBALPUR ): Sir, I see nothing new in this demand discussion for the Supplementary Demands for Grants seeking the approval  of the House for an amount of Rs.21,283 crore and 92 lakh. This is a stereo type thing and there is no doubt that this House will approve it. Many Hon. Members have given valuable suggestions so far the improvement of the economy is concerned. Many drawbacks of the current year’s budget have been highlighted and few achievements have also been acknowledged. But I do not hope that the Hon. Fiancé Minister will consider the good proposals. He will only acknowledge the appreciations and the criticisms will be overlooked because the bad habit with us is all the time we look at things from partisan angle and that is the reason why in this country we fail to arrive at a consensus even on greater economic and other issues. The other day the Hon. Prime Minister categorically admitted during his speech in the National Development Council that our achievements in the agriculture sector during the last several years has been dismissal and there is indeed an agro crisis the country is reeling under. Our agricultural production is less than 2 per cent of the GDP which is much below than in any other developing country much smaller in size and population than ours. We must have an introspection why this has happened in spite of all our claims of a successful Green Revolution. Multiplying the flow of credit to the farmers is no doubt a welcome step but to conclude that that is the end of all our problems is nothing but deception.  In spite of doubling the credit flow, still in this country farmers are committing suicides in thousands which is a stigma on the face of this nation and our heads are hung down in the international arena.  The Govt.  has so far failed to come out with the specific planning to deal with this problem. I would like to know from the Finance Minister what is his prospective planning to save  the precious lives of our farmers 

 

 

*The speech was laid on the Table. who have no other way but to invite death to escape from humiliation of the private money lenders and harassment of the lending institutions.  What can be more ridiculous than importing wheat from outside the country when it is available in the country at a comparatively lower price?  Is it the way Govt. is trying to deal with the situation? Cooperative institutions are the best outlets to serve the farmers and other down trodden of the society.  But Mr. Finance Minister, you have brought Cooperative Banks to the fold of income-tax which were exempted from income-tax so far.  Is it not a way to kill these Cooperative Banks who try give life to the farmers through their rural net work?  How can we then say that this is a pro poor and profarmer Govt.?  This move to tax profits of Cooperative Banks will take away a minimum five hundred core of rupees from the Cooperative Banks which are utilized in financing agriculture and other priority sector loans.  It is a good news that the 11th Five Year Plan proposal emphasis on agriculture but Government’s intention will be known in action only. The balanced development of the country in all sectors depend upon how far and how soon we are able to remove regional imbalance which at present seems to be a far cry.  It appears Government decision in so far as allocating funds and declaring packages for under developed States are not free from political compulsion and some time parochial attitude. My own State Orissa is a real example of this. This is the poorest of the poor State in the country having the largest population below the poverty line and much below the national average in many other sectors. You have been providing special packages for other under developed States but in spite of repeated requests Orissa has so far been ignored in this respect. We being a mineral rich State, even our demand for revision in coal royally is also ignored. The 11th Finance Commission and the Sarkaria Commission also recommended for revision of royalty on minerals in at least every 3 years or else to give compensation to the concerned State for non revision in time. You have also reduced the amount of allocation for the KBK Scheme in Orissa which is most deplorable. To compensate the loss you have caused, the State Govt. of Orissa in spite of its financial constraints has provided additional funds for the scheme. Irrigation  being one of the machinery to improve the financial condition through agriculture has so far been neglected. I would urge upon the Finance Minister to make provision for more allocation in this sector and a time bound programme should be drawn to complete all on-going projects both major and medium which are pending since decades. Govt. should also be very categorical on the issue of linking of rivers which was initiated by the NDA Govt. Sir, though I have a number of points more to make. I shall conclude here weith an appeal to the Fincnce Minister and the Union Govt. that all parts and all States of the country should be treated equally with more emphasis on the under developed States like Orissa, Chattisgarh, Jharkhand, etc. or else the fruits of development and result of huge investment will only  be tested by few States which is not going to help the overall and balanced progress of our country. SHRI N.S.V. CHITTHAN ( DINDIGUL ): Sir, I raise to support the Demands for excess grants relating to 2004-2005 and supplementary demands for grants for the year 2006-2007 presented by our Hon’ble Finance Minister. I recall that our UPA Government as soon as it came to power on 18th June 2004 a package for doubling the flow of credit to agriculture and allied activities in a period of three years commencing from 2004-05 over the amount disbursed during the year 2003-04. For the year 2004-05 the target was Rs. ,1,05,000 csrores  whereas the achievement was Rs.1,25,309 crores and for the year 2005-06      the target was Rs.1,41,000  crores and the achievement was Rs. 1,67,775 crores. The target for the credit flow to agriculture and allied sector has been fixed at Rs.1,75,000 crore during 2006-07. The credit flow to Agriculture to benefit the farming community has seen a growth rate of 25%, 44% and 34% during the past 3 years. This statistics clearly reveal the keen interest the UPA Government  has for the farming community. This Govt. was voted to power on the plank of support to `Aam Admi’. We are fulfilling that commitment. As per the Supplementary Demands Rs.2359 crores are sought for providing interest relief to debt stressed farmers. Out of this, Rs.1359 cores are intended to farmers of A.P., Kerala, Karnataka and Maharashtra. The remaining 1000 crores are sought for the remaining debt stressed farmers of our country. (While appreciating the gesture of our Finance Minister for providing Rs.1700 crores for the 2% interest relief to Farmers for the loan  obtained during 2005-06, and for the year 2006-07 will be decided later after finalizing the total requirement and a provision Rs.1000 crores is now being sought on this account. Though this is to be appreciated that it is not enough to solve the debt problem of farmers. *The speech was laid on the Table. There is a common saying that Indian Farmer  is born in debt, lives in debt and dies in debt by leaving the debt burden to is heirs. Taking into account, the seriousness of this problem. Tamil Nadu State has taken the lead and our Chief Minister  Dr.Kaliignar has wiped out the interest dues of farmers by providing Rs.7000/- crores It is a bold and historical decision. May I request our Finance Minister to have a more sympathetic approach to the debt burden of farmers by announcing more relief to farmers who are feeding the entire nation. By taking into account the pathetic situation of farmers, I request to Finance Minister to apply his mind to provide 4% loan on short term crop to small and tiny farmers.?  I think that overall revenue in the Budget for the year 2007-08 may be nearly           Rs. 6 lacks crores. So it will not at all a burden to Government to advance such loans When 0% interest is offered to those who buy new motor cars why not to the toiling farmers? The primary cooperative societies in Tamil Nadu are facing a severe liquidity crunch. I therefore urge upon Finance Minister to take personal interest in this matter and persuade NABARD to provide immediate relief facilities to cooperative banks. I learn that the conditionalities stipulated by NABARD for providing required facilities are cleared by the State Government through a Memorandum of Understanding. The Crop season has started in Tamil Nadu and farmers need maximum credit flow. I urge the Finance Minister to intervene and ensure that the farmers in Tamil Nadu get credit without delay. I wish to draw the attention of our Finance Minister to the question of economic backwardness of Southern. districts of Tamil Nadu. The living conditions of the people in these areas  are worse than Bihar. About 80% of the area have no irrigation facilities and no major industries have come up in this region. I urge the Finance Minister to think in terms of setting up a Development Council for the region taking into account the backwardness of the region. Finacne Minister also hails from this area and it will not be a mistake to help the deserving poor. The Finance Minister had said during the general elections in 2004 that he will see India through Siarganga. I wish he should see India through backward districts of Tamil Nandu like Dindigul, Madrai, Pudukottai, Ramanthapuram, Tirunelveli and Kanyakumari also. The region needs massive investments in infrastructure especially transportation since it is situated at one corner of the domestic consuming market. The Railway Ministry is in possession of laying a parallel BG Line between Chengalpat and Thootukudi and simultaneously electrification of the track. My earnest appeal is that the Finance Ministry should ensure that this Project should be taken up in the next Railway Budget. The Airports at Madurai Coimbatore and Trichy need to be upgraded into International Air Ports. Before I conclude, I wish to draw the attention of the Finance Minister to the fact that contribution made to Government securities also attracts Service Tax. For example contribution to Postal Life Insurance, a saving instrument available to Government Employees also attracts service tax. May I urge the Finance Minister to scrap this levy on saving instruments. PROF. M. RAMADASS ( PONDICHERRY ): Mr. Chairman, Sir, I am happy to participate in this discussion on the Supplementary Demands for Grants. At the outset, I wish to clear one point. The point is that through a Supplementary Budget we cannot expect magic remedies and solutions to a number of fundamental problems facing this country. A Supplementary Budget, at best, can only give an indication of the intentions of the Government with respect to the various parameters of the economy. So, keeping this in mind, I would confine my comments only to the Supplementary Demands for Grants for which the Finance Minister has come before this House. He is seeking the approval of the House for an expenditure of Rs. 21,823.92 crore of which Rs. 10,376 crore will be met out of savings made by the Ministries.  Ultimately there will be a net cash outgo of only Rs. 11,444.76 crore. Out of this amount, 36 per cent will go as transfers to States and Union Territories, 32.30 per cent will go as fertilizer subsidies and 26.60 per cent, through the Ministry of Finance, for various interest relief schemes to farmers. Sir, when we look into the structure of this expenditure sought by the Finance Minister, we note that the transfers to States and Union Territories occupy the first place. This shows that the UPA Government is interested in the development of various States and Union Territories which are now haunted by  the financial sickness or lack of resources. Therefore, it shows the concern of the Government to maintain harmonious Centre-State relations which is evident in this Supplementary Budget. Secondly, the Government’s second preference is towards fertilizer subsidies which will claim an amount of Rs. 3,700 crore. It means the cost of cultivation of farmers will go down. Thirdly, the Ministry of Finance will be spending Rs. 2,359 crore in the form of interest relief to farmers.[R65]  

 

         Many Members who spoke before me explained the plight of the farmers and explained their debt burden. I wish to tell them here is a Ministry which is willing to give relief to those farmers who have committed suicides in Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Karnataka and Maharashtra by providing an interest relief of Rs. 1,350 crore, and also providing interest subvention on short term credit to farmers to the extent of Rs. 1000 crore.  Therefore, all these initiatives of the Government show the interest of the Government in the farmers in terms of subsidies, in terms of writing off the loans through the State Governments etc. and also building up strong Centre-State relations through which it wants to bring about  reforms. One main question is whether this increase in expenditure would lead to an increase in fiscal deficit.  In my view, this increase of Rs. 11,000 crore is not going to increase the fiscal deficit of the Government  because in the last four months, the Government has very dexteriously controlled the expenditure as well as the revenue pattern in such a way that in September 2006 we had a surplus of Rs. 4,217 crore.  Therefore, the apprehension that it will increase the fiscal deficit of the Government cannot also be sustained. But, what is worrying in the Supplementary Budget is that out of the total expenditure of Rs. 21,823.92 crore, 81.3 per cent of it goes as non-plan, non-productive and non-development expenditure.  This is the most important factor because once this money goes into circulation, the output will not be produced to that extent; employment will not be created to that extent; too much of money will be chasing too few goods.  This would cause inflationary forces.  Already, there are indications that the prices of essential commodities are going up.  My only apprehension is whether this increase in money supply caused by this expenditure would increase the price of the commodities. The second disconcerting feature is that the rural development has received a raw deal in the Supplementary Budget because only Rs. 250 crore under the plan outlay has been earmarked for this, and agriculture gets only Rs. 125.16 crore which is just 1.1 per cent of the total.  What is amazing is that fisheries has not been given any outlay in view of the significance of fishing in the whole primary sector today.  Next to agriculture, today, even at par with agriculture today, fisheries is contributing so much, but fisheries has not received any outlay from this Budget. The hon. Finance Minister is right in saying that the  economy is growing at 9 per cent.  But  our worry is whether this growth and the benefit of growth percolate to the common man as expressed by many people.  Even the Eleventh Five Year Plan today talks in terms of inclusive growth as if all the other Ten Plans have not talked about inclusive growth.  Every plan emphasized or underlined the need for including the downtrodden people, the weaker sections, the unorganized sector etc.  Therefore there is nothing new about inclusive growth.  What is wanted is accessible growth.  The growth that is occurring in the country should be accessible to the poor man and he should be able to derive benefits out of it.  Therefore, the slogan of the Government, at least in the Eleventh Five Year Plan, should be not inclusive growth but accessible growth to the people, and that should be our objective. Another area of serious concern is that the production of power supply is lagging behind our planned target, and we should emphasise on improvement in the power supply.  The credit growth is increasing at an alarming rate.  Whether the deposit growth from the commercial banks is increasing  pari passu is not clear.  Therefore, we only feel that the deposit growth must also be matched by the credit growth. Finally, we have experimented so many reforms on the economic front.  But, I think, we are lacking in what is called ‘expenditure reforms’.  Although we are taking tougher decisions, we are trying to control the expenditure yet not much has been done.  I would only wish that the Government should  emphasise on the efficiency of expenditure and the quality of expenditure.  Every pie that is spent must be able to produce something.  As the Finance Minister used to tell us, it is the outcome expenditure, outcome budget, which is more important than the outlay expenditure.   I expected that the hon. Finance Minister would be able to present an outcome Budget along with the Supplementary Budget. That has not been done.  Perhaps he will do so next time.  Therefore, Sir, all our expenditure must result in increasing the productive capacity of the economy which only would lead to a jobful growth and not jobless growth.  We have to aim at jobful growth. With these words, I fully support the Supplementary Demands for Grants and Appropriation Bills brought forward by the hon. Finance Minister. SHRI SUDHANGSHU SEAL ( CALCUTTA-NORTH WEST ): Mr. Chairman, Sir, I support the Demands for Excess Grants (General) for 2004-05 and the Supplementary Demands for Grants (General) for 2006-07. Sir, during the last four quarters, we have observed that the GDP growth is increasing in every quarter.  As far as the growth is concerned, we find that the GDP growth in the case of agricultural sector is very less compared to other sectors.  But whatever might be the growth, the total GDP is achieved by the unorganized sector.  Fifty per cent of the contribution is made by the unorganized sector.  Around 37 crores of people and 93 per cent of the total working force are engaged in this unorganized sector.  We are very much surprised to see that our Government is not taking any constructive measures to do something for them.  Neither they are covered with any insurance scheme nor provident fund nor gratuity.  So, I would like to submit through you, Sir, to the hon. Finance Minister that this matter should be looked into. For example, in gems and jewellery sector, we are exporting ornaments worth Rs. 60,000 crore to different countries, and in our domestic market the selling of ornaments is around Rs. 40,000 crore.   Lakhs and lakhs of artisans are involved in this trade but they are not covered with any such benefits.  So long as they are working, they are getting remuneration and that also not up to their expectation.   As soon as they are losing their working capacity, they are nowhere.  So, this matter should be looked into.  Same is the case with the farmers.  Sir, as you know, 70 per cent of our population are staying in the rural areas, and our agricultural sector is not attended properly.  If you take agriculture or horticulture or floriculture, the required infrastructure is not yet available with us.  There are certain crops which are one-time crops.  We need proper preservation facilities.  We need to have cool-chains.  But even after sixty years of our Independence, we do not have cool-chains.  What I suggest to the hon. Finance Minister is that we should have proper planning to have cool-chains in every block, and that way it would save the farmers. Sir, as you know, there are certain items which we are producing more.  Take, for example, potato.  In West Bengal, there was a time we used to procure potato from other States.  We are now producing that much which is meeting not only our domestic requirement but also we are in a position to export this product to the global countries.  Our competitors are America, Australia, Holland and China.  We do not have the infrastructure to export these products.  We need to have refrigerated-containers to export these items.  For the last two years, I am asking the authority concerned, through the floor of this House, to arrange these refrigerated-containers.  We are exporting these items to Singapore, Indonesia, Philippines and Malaysia but we are importing the containers from Germany.  If we have our own containers, it will definitely enable us to compete with the global buyers.  Now, Sir, what we need is a clear marketing system for agricultural products.  That is very much needed.  We do not have any marketing arrangement or marketing system, and because of that, the farmers are suffering.  Take, for example, tomato.  The farmers are growing tomatoes in the field.[R66]  

            They are not in a position to sell their tomato  even at 50 paisa per kilogram whereas in the open market, that tomato is sold at Rs. 15 per kilogram. Today, it is being sold at Rs. 20 per kilogram in the market. So, if we really want to give support price to the growers, we should have the positive marketing policy.   We should procure the items from the growers. We should have effective marketing and we should distribute the items per the demand of the domestic market as well the global market. Sir, another important point is about the Regional Rural Banks.  They are doing remarkable jobs.  Aggarwal Committee has given its recommendations in this regard.  But I do not know why these RRBs are not being allowed to expand their activities.  They have been given a limited staff.  Whatever may be the volume, whatever may be the beneficiaries, whatever may be the turn over, they are not being allowed to increase their capacity, whereas they are serving the nation.  They are giving their service at the remote places, rural villages where even the nationalized banks are not in position to go.  I would, therefore, request the hon. Finance Minster to kindly look into this matter and do the needful. Sir, lastly, I would definitely like to mention about the education sector.  There are five basic needs of everybody in this world.  They are:  food, shelter, clothing, health and education.  Education is one of the most important sectors. But as far as education is concerned, it is really a pity that even after 59 years of our Independence, still 35 per cent population of our country is illiterate.  I would definitely appreciate the Government of India for introducing the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan and other programmes.  The Finance Ministry should see how effectively all these programmes are looked into.  We want this illiteracy level of 35 per cent to be reduced to just zero level, and for that sincere  efforts are required to be taken by the Government of India, especially by the Finance Ministry. With these few words, I conclude. श्रीमती करुणा शुक्ला ( जाँजगीर ) : माननीय सभापति महोदय, वर्ष २००४-०५ की अतरिक्त अनुदानों की मांगों तथा वर्ष २००६-०७ की अनुदानों की अनुपूरक मांगों पर आज चर्चा चल रही है, मैं आपके माध्यम से आम आदमी की तरफ सरकार के खास आदमी माननीय वित्त मंत्री का ध्यान आकृष्ट कराना चाहूंगी। सरकार की नीयत और नीति दोनों संदेह से घिरी हुई हैं। जो सरकारें धर्म और जाति के नाम पर अपना काम चलाना चाहेंगी, वे कभी भी अर्थव्यवस्था दुरुस्त नहीं कर सकती हैं। शैक्षणिक संस्थानों में जाति के नाम पर आरक्षण की बात, सेना में जाति के नाम पर आरक्षण या काउंटिंग की बात या दूसरे संस्थानों में इस ढंग की बात हो, तो वह सरकार कैसे आम आदमी की सरकार बनने की बात कह सकती है? ऐसी सरकार कभी भी इस देश को सफलता के सर्वोच्च शिखर पर ले जाने में सफल नहीं हो सकती है। मैं छत्तीसगढ़ प्रदेश से आती हूं। छत्तीसगढ़ नवोदय प्रदेश है, जिसकी आयु सिर्फ ६ वर्ष की है। पूर्व प्रधानमंत्री श्री अटल बिहारी वाजपेयी जी की सरकार ने इस राज्य को जन्म दिया, यह जानते हुए भी कि कांग्रेस के विधायकों की संख्या ज्यादा है और वहां कांग्रेस की ही सरकार बनेगी। चूंकि नीयत और नीति दोनों अच्छी थीं, उन्होंने अपना वायदा पूरा किया और छत्तीसगढ़ राज्य का निर्माण १ नवम्बर, २००० को किया। प्रधानमंत्री के रूप में उन्होंने कभी भेदभाव नहीं किया। चाहे सर्व शिक्षा अभियान की बात हो, चाहे प्रधानमंत्री सड़क योजना की बात हो या सैल्फ हैल्प ग्रुप के आबंटन की बात हो, कहीं किसी रूप में भेदभाव नहीं किया गया। लेकिन ढाई साल पहले, जब से यूपीए सरकार आई और छत्तीसगढ़ में भाजपा की सरकार बन गई, इन्होंने भेदभाव करना शुरू कर दिया। छत्तीसगढ़ नक्सल प्रभावित क्षेत्र है, १६ में से १० जिले नक्सल प्रभावित हैं, हम छत्तीसगढ़ के लोग प्रारंभ से कह रहे हैं कि नक्सली समस्या को राष्ट्रीय समस्या मानिए और हमारी मदद कीजिए, लेकिन उसके लिए अतरिक्त आबंटन की दरकार सरकार ने आज तक नहीं की है। आज वही कहावत छत्तीसगढ़ के लिए चरितार्थ हो रही है “अंधा बांटे रेवड़ी, चींग-चींग के दे” जम्मू-कश्मीर में कांग्रेस समर्थित सरकार है इसलिए वहां राजीव गांधी विद्युत परियोजना के लिए ५०० करोड़ रुपए मांगे गए और उनके लिए ४६५ करोड़ की राशि आबंटित की गई। छत्तीसगढ़ में वही विद्युत योजना ठप्प पड़ी है जिसकी तरफ किसी का ध्यान नहीं जा रहा है। जब महाराष्ट्र, आंध्रा प्रदेश या केरल में किसान आत्महत्या करते हैं, किसानों की बात करने वाली सरकार द्वारा वहां के लिए विशेष पैकेज दिए जाते हैं। लेकिन छत्तीसगढ़ के किसान, जो अपना खून पसीना एक करके, तपती दोपहर में धान की फसल पैदा करते हैं, अगर उनका धान सरकार खरीदती है तो वह अपने दम पर खरीदे? उनके परिवहन के लिए यह सरकार कोई व्यवस्था नहीं करती है। हमारे मुख्यमंत्री माननीय कृषि मंत्री शरद पवार जी के पास बार-बार आते हैं और निवेदन करते हैं कि आप हमें अतरिक्त पैसा दीजिए लेकिन निश्चित रूप से अतरिक्त पैसा की बात वहां नहीं होती है। गरीबी उन्मूलन योजना में क्या काम हो रहा है, सरकार को देखने की जरूरत नहीं है, सरकार सिर्फ इस बात की ओर लगी हुई है कि कागजों में आंकड़े बढ़ जाएं। मैं नहीं कहती कि आजादी के ६० साल बाद प्रगति नहीं हुई, प्रगति हुई है, शहरों में अट्टालिकाएं तन गई हैं, अमीर और अमीर हो गए हैं और गरीब और गरीब हो गए हैं। जब राम गोपाल जी बोल रहे थे तब मुझे लग रहा था कि वे भाजपा की भाषा बोल रहे हैं क्योंकि अंतिम पंक्ति के अंतिम व्यक्ति की चिंता अगर देश में किसी ने की है, तो वह पूर्व प्रधानमंत्री श्री अटल बिहारी वाजपेयी जी ने एनडीए सरकार के समय की थी। उन्होंने जो योजनाएं चलाई थी उन योजनाओं के लिए अगर आबंटन बंद नहीं किया जाता, अगर उन योजनाओं को सुचारु रूप से लागू किया जाता तो मैं दावे के साथ कह सकती हूं आज देश की स्थिति दूसरी होती। बहुत से माननीय सदस्य एम्स की बात कह रहे थे, छत्तीसगढ़ गरीब प्रदेश है, आदिवासियों का प्रदेश है, आवागमन ज्यादा अच्छा नहीं है, एम्स अस्पताल घोषित हुआ लेकिन पैसे देने में कोताही बरती जा रही है। आप देश का विकास कर लेंगे? भारत निर्माण को अंजाम दे देंगे? अगर छत्तीसगढ़ पिछड़ा रह गया तब आपकी भारत निर्माण की भावनाओं की कौन कद्र करेगा? माननीय वित्त मंत्री जी मैं आपका तीन-चार बार से लगातार भाषण सुन रही हूं, आप बड़े गर्व के साथ कहते हैं कि मैं हूं न, मैं सब कुछ ठीक करूंगा, यदि आप ईमानदारी से भारत निर्माण करना चाहते हैं तो छत्तीसगढ़ को ठीक कीजिए, नक्सली समस्या का अंत कीजिए। छत्तीसगढ़ की अमीर धरती है लेकिन वहां गरीब लोग रहते हैं क्योंकि यह सरकार आज तक कोयले की रॉयल्टी तय नहीं कर पाई है। हमें दो रुपए रॉयल्टी का मिलता है, हम कैसे छत्तीसगढ़ का विकास करेंगे? कोयले की रॉयल्टी की नई दरें तय की जाएं। माइन्स और मिनरल्स छत्तीसगढ़ में है लेकिन दोहन नहीं कर पा रहे हैं, वन संपदा हमारे पास है लेकिन सरकार ने रोड़े लगा दिए हैं इसलिए हम उसका उपभोग नहीं कर पा रहे हैं। अगर सारी समस्याओं का अंत माननीय वित्त मंत्री जी करेंगे तो मुझे लगता है कि भारत निर्माण में छत्तीसगढ़ एक अहम कड़ी साबित होगा। यूपीए सरकार में आप खास आदमी हैं, आप वित्त मंत्री हैं, आप पर सारी सरकार का दारोमदार निर्भर है, आपने बातें तो बड़ी-बड़ी की, आंकड़े लंबे-चौड़े प्रस्तुत किए लेकिन भाजपा शासित छत्तीसगढ़ प्रदेश के साथ भेदभाव किया। माननीय सभापति महोदय, मिट्टी के तेल का आबंटन कम कर दिया, शक्कर का कोटा कम कर दिया। आपने काम के बदले अनाज योजना के तहत घुन लगा हुआ गेहूं भेजा है।[r67]  

 

 

 सभापति महोदय, मैं छत्तीसगढ़ के जांजगीर लोकसभा क्षेत्र का प्रतनधित्व करती हूं। मुझे दुख के साथ कहना पड़ता है कि मेरे क्षेत्र को राष्ट्रीय रोज़गार गारंटी योजना से नहीं जोड़ा गया है। मैंने डा. रघुवंश प्रसाद सिंह, ग्रामीण विकास मंत्री से निवेदन भी किया है । मुझे विश्वास है कि आने वाले समय में छत्तीसगढ़ राज्य की उपेक्षा नही होगी। मैं एक बार पुन: इस बात को दोहराना चाहूंगी कि माननीय वित्त मंत्री जी बातें तो बड़ी-बड़ी कर रहे हैं लेकिन निश्चित रूप से उन बड़ी बातों को अंजाम देने के लिये, अगर वह काम करेंगे, तो अच्छा होगा। सभापति महोदय, मैं अपना भाषण एक कवि की दो पंक्तियों को उद्धृत करते हुये समाप्त करना चाहूंगी : SHRI P. CHIDAMBARAM : If you could just yield for a minute?  For the first time I have heard anyone saying that the GDP growing from 7.5 to 8.4 to 9.1 is ruin.  This shows that BJP looks everything upside down. gÉÉÒàÉiÉÉÒ xÉÉÒiÉÉ {É]èÉÊ®ªÉÉ : ªÉc ¤ÉÉiÉ ÉÊºÉ{ÉEÇ +ÉÉÆBÉE½Éå àÉå cè*  càÉ MÉÉÊãÉªÉÉå àÉå +ÉÉè® OÉÉàÉÉÒhÉ FÉäjÉÉå àÉå VÉÉiÉä cé, iÉÉä näJÉiÉä cé ÉÊBÉE ´Éहां तक विकास की किरण नहीं पहुंची है। यूपीए सरकार निश्चित रूप से फेल है। वह केवल नारे लगा रही है। गरीबी हटाओ का नारा लगा रही है, पर देश में स्थिति यह है कि लोगों के लिए दाल-रोटी नहीं है। जैसे कि हम लोग पहले भजन गाया करते थे, " दाल रोटी खाओ, प्रभु के गुण गाओ " और हम अब कहने लगे हैं कि " भूखे भजन न होए गोपाला, " क्योंकि दाल और दूसरी चीजों के भाव इतने ज्यादा बढ़ गए हैं। आपने पूरे साल का अपना बजट बनाया था, लेकिन जब आज आपकी जो बजट में पूरक मांगे आयी हैं, वह अपने आप में यह प्रदर्शित करता है कि जब आपने बजट बनाया तो उस समय जो आपका अपना अनुमानित बजट था, उसमें आप गड़बड़ाए और इतनी आज इतनी अधिक राशि इसमें मांगी जा रही है। अनुमानित लागत से थोड़ा-बहुत अंतर तो चलता है, पर जो आज हमने पूरी लिस्ट पढ़ी, इतना अंतर नहीं चलता है। आपने जो अपना अनुमानित बजट देश के लिए बजट सत्र में बनाया, वह आपका गड़बड़ाया और दूसरी तरफ आपकी नीतियां सही नहीं हैं, जिसके कारण गृहणियों के घरों का जो बजट था, वह भी गड़बड़ा गया है। माननीय मंत्री जी जब से यूपीए की सरकार आयी है, कमरतोड़ महंगाई लायी है। प्याज के नाम पर आंसू बहाने वाली सरकार, कांग्रेस आज मौन है। महंगाई बढ़ रही है, न शक्कर है, न दाल है, न चावल है, न सब्जियां हैं और गृहणियों का बजट बिगड़ गया है। डीजल और पेट्रोल के भाव बढ़ गए, कुकिंग गैस की लाइनें बढ़ गयीं, कहीं न कहीं यह गड़बड़ाया हुआ बजट है, जो जनता के सामने है और जनता में हाहाकार मचा हुआ है, आप सब मौन बैठे हुए हैं।[v69]                                                                                                                               
 

 19.00 hrs. 

 जब एनडीए की सरकार थी, उस समय देश में अनाज के गोदाम भरे हुए थे, लेकिन आज खाली हैं। आज आस्ट्रेलिया से सड़ा हुआ गेहूं ज्यादा दाम देकर इस देश में लाया जा रहा है। वह गेहूं जानवरों के खाने लायक भी नहीं है। उस समय देश की अर्थव्यवस्था भी सुद्ृढ़ थी और विकास की दर ८ प्रतिशत पार कर चुकी थी। विदेशी मुद्रा का भंडार था। आज हमारे देश में किसानों की यह हालत है कि उनकी आत्महत्या करने की सूची लगातार बढ़ती जा रही है। किसानों पर कर्ज का काफी बोझ है, खाद, बीज महंगे हैं और उनकी लागत बढ़ती जा रही है। हंमने देश में रोजगार गारंटी योजना शुरू कर दी, जो अच्छी बात है। इससे लोगों को काम मिल रहा है, लेकिन उससे हंमारे देश का कोई विकास नहीं हो रहा है, क्योंकि जो पैसा खर्च हो रहा है, उसके बदले कोई इमारत खड़ी नहीं हुई, उद्योग धंधे खड़े नहीं हो रहे हैं। हमने बेरोजगार कह दिया, लेकिन उनमें पढ़े-लिखे भी शामिल हैं। आज अगर आप गांवों में जाएं तो उन लोगों के जॉब कार्ड बने हुए हैं जो एमए, एमएससी पढ़े हुए हैं। उन्हें लगता था कि उन्होंने पढ़-लिख लिया है, वे देश में सम्मानजनक स्थिति में रहेंगे, अच्छा काम करेंगे, लेकिन आज हमने उनके हाथों में फावड़े और तसले पकड़ा दिए ताकि रोजगार गारंटी के माध्यम से जो कच्चे काम होते हैं, वह उन्हें करें। आपकी पढ़ाई-लिखाई सब बेकार, आपको देश के बारे में नहीं सोचना, आप अपने गांवों में रहें। आपने चाहे जितनी पढ़ाई की हो, हमने आप सबको मजदूर बना दिया - अब न कोई बड़ा रहा, न छोटा, न कोई अनपढ़, कोई अंतर नहीं रहा। हमने गांव-गांव में मजदूरों की संख्या बढ़ा दी, मजदूरों में कोई भेदभाव नहीं है। अगर रोटी चाहिए तो आइए, रोजगार गारंटी के नाम पर गड्ढे खोदिए और दो वक्त की रोटी कमाइए। यह हमारी रोजगार गारंटी का हाल है और हम कहते हैं कि हमने बेरोजगारी हटा दी। माननीय मंत्री जी, बेरोजगारी रोजगार गारंटी योजना से नहीं हटेगी। हमारे देश में जो लघु और कुटीर उद्योग थे, उनसे हमने अपना ध्यान हटा लिया। हमारे देश में जिस तरह से लघु और कुटीर उद्योग बंद हुए, उनकी वजह से बेरोजगारी बढ़ी। आज वे बेरोजगार दर-दर की ठोकरें खा रहे हैं और उनके पास दो वक्त की रोटी नहीं है। १९.०३ hrs.                 (Shri Varkala Radhakrishnan in the Chair) 

हमने अपना ध्यान पूरी तरह से कृषि से हटा लिया है।…(व्यवधान)  हमने कभी यह प्रयास नहीं किया कि किसानों की स्थिति सुधरे, हमने यह प्रयास किया कि उन्हें कर्ज आसानी से मिल जाए।…(व्यवधान)  हमने यह ध्यान नहीं दिया कि अगर वे कर्ज लेंगे, तो चुकाएंगे कहां से। हमारी इन्हीं गलत नीतियों के कारण आज उत्पाद की लागत बढ़ती जा रही है। देश के किसान परेशान हैं, फटेहाल हैं, बदहाल हैं और आत्महत्या करने के लिए मजबूर हैं।…(व्यवधान)  यह इस देश और सरकार पर एक कलंक है। भारत कृषि प्रधान देश है। किसान हमारी रीढ़ की हड्डी हैं और हम उन्हें आत्महत्या करने के लिए मजबूर कर रहे हैं।…(व्यवधान)  मैं दो मिनट में अपनी बात समाप्त करूंगी। हम विकास की बात करते हैं, लेकिन आज हमारे देश में बहुत से गांव ऐसे हैं, जहां लोग फ्लोराइडयुक्त पानी पीने को मजबूर हैं, जिससे वे फ्लोरेसी से ग्रसित हो रहे है, चाहे बच्चे हों या बड़े। हमारा ध्यान नहीं है कि उनके लिए अलग से कोई व्यवस्था करें और शुद्ध पानी पीने को मिले।…(व्यवधान) मध्य प्रदेश के साथ सौतेला व्यवहार किया जा रहा है, जबकि मध्य प्रदेश हर योजना में नम्बर एक पर है। आज रोजगार गारंटी का पूरे देश का ४७ प्रतिशत केवल मध्य प्रदेश में खर्च हुआ है। वहां हर योजना का अच्छी तरह क्रियान्वयन हो रहा है। लेकिन जब मध्य प्रदेश में ओला पड़ा, सूखा पड़ा, बाढ़ आई और आपसे पैसा मांगा गया, तो मध्य प्रदेश का जितना हक था, आपने वह भी नहीं दिया। चूंकि मध्य प्रदेश में भारतीय जनता पार्टी की सरकार है, इसलिए विकास के मामले में, चाहे रेलवे का मामला हो या अन्य मामले हों, हर जगह उसकी उपेक्षा की जाती है। आपसे निवेदन है कि मध्य प्रदेश हर योजना को सही विकास की ओर लेकर जा रहा है, उसे पूरा कर रहा है, आप उसके साथ सौतेला व्यवहार मत कीजिए और सहयोग कीजिए, जिससे उसका विकास हो।…(व्यवधान) माननीय मंत्री जी, आप पिछले तीन सालों सेभारत निर्माण की बात कह रहे हैं, लेकिन इस समय भारत निर्माण की जो तस्वीर है, उसमें आतंकवादियों ने बिना अपराध के जिन लोगों को मारा, वे लहुलूहान दिखते हैं, आत्महत्या करते हुए किसान दिखते हैं, बेरोजगारों की लम्बी लाइन दिखती है।मरीज दम तोड़ रहे हैं क्योंकि जीवन रक्षक दवाइयां महंगी हो गयी हैं। आज अस्पतालों में मरीजों की संख्या बढ़ी हुई दिखती है। कहीं भी भारत निर्माण की तस्वीर ऐसी नहीं दिख रही, जिसमें भारत की आम जनता खुशहाल दिखाई दे। अंत में, मैं कहना चाहूंगी कि सरकार किसान, गरीब, बेरोजगार, मजदूर आदि पर ध्यान दे जिससे भारत की जनता खुशहाल हो। DR. THOKCHOM MEINYA ( INNER MANIPUR ): Sir, I rise to participate in the discussion and voting on the Demands for Excess Grants (General) for 2004-05 and also on the discussion and voting on the Supplementary Demands for Grants (General) for the year 2006-07. At the very outset I would like to say that I stand here to support the Demands. Sir, while praising the hon. Finance Minister and his team for his very highly academic way of managing the Ministry of Finance, I would like to place on record some of my humble and respectful opinions. Just now we heard an hon. Member from the Opposition benches expressing her opinion about the style of functioning of our Government, including the activities of the Ministry of Finance. I will put it in one sentence and that is, those are all deliberate untruths. I do not mind that because we speak certain things from one side and from the other side we speak certain other things. This is the beauty of democracy and we appreciate the feelings of the Members of the Opposition. Sir, the first part of Demands are those which have already been spent and we have come here to regularize the amount. We have to support it because this Government over the last two and a half years has done a tremendous job. The hon. Finance Minister has always been claiming that the economy is on a high growth path. We are happy about that and full credit should be given to the hon. Finance Minister. While saying so, I have certain points to make. We are worried and anxious about the rise in prices and also about the health sector. We are worried about the drinking water problem, particularly in the rural areas and other remote areas. We would like to analyze the causes for this. Take the case of price rise. The Government is giving subsidy to various sectors, still the prices continue to rise. Why does this happen? For this we have to look at the ever growing population in the country which we are unable to control. Only the educated and the elite class of the society is aware of the importance of controlling population, but in rural areas it grows unabated. This is one area of anxiety. So, even if the GDP is high in certain sectors, like agriculture, this is not happening. We wish that growth in the agricultural sector should also come within this ambit. Most of us belong to the rural areas. Our population in the rural areas is high and so there should be provision for tap water for drinking purposes. In most of the rural areas we do not have proper drinking water facilities. People in the rural areas are so ignorant that they are not even aware as to what is happening there. People in the rural areas are not aware as to what is being done for them. The UPA Government is implementing several schemes for the people in the rural areas but the people in the rural areas are practically ignorant about those programmes that are being implemented for them. We all are responsible for that. There has to be proper monitoring and also proper guidance for them. One important aspect that is very directly linked to such ignorance is education, the growth and development of human resource. Human Resource Development plays an important role for a democracy to be successful. For a democracy to be successful we have to have proper education for all citizens in India. Now, we are having a lot of problems in this regard. So, the Government should pump in more funds to improve upon the education system and for human resource development. Once the human resources development sector is properly looked after, then perhaps education, health and other sectors will be going in the  right direction and democracy, in this country, will last for ever. There is a gap between haves and have-nots.  It is all because of ignorance and lack of education.  That is why, we always lay stress on lack of education. Another important thing which the Finance Minister is saying is, outcome is more important than outlay.  Money is not a problem.   But we have to see the outcome of whatever outlay we have given.  This point has to be examined.  That is why, last year, we have started the Outcome Budget and this year also, I hope  we will follow the same and we are looking forward that the economy of the country will be on the right mode under the leadership of our Finance Minister. SHRI P. KARUNAKARAN ( KASARGOD ):   Sir, I stand not only to support the Demands for Grants but also to congratulate our Finance Minister just because this excess amount is mainly spent for the rural areas.  It is for the relief of farmers and also for subsidy in fertilizers, social measures and some issues connected with defence.  There are about 31 districts identified in four States including three districts in Kerala.  I really congratulate our Finance Minister.  In the very beginning, when the Government had taken this decision, the Government of Kerala had been continuously requesting to add two more districts, namely, Alleppey and Idukki.  I am mentioning Alleppey because it is in a difficult position and it is true in the case of Idukki also because of the sharp decline in the price of cash crops.  So, our Government has given the submission to the Finance Minister, the Minister for Agriculture and the Prime Minister.    Though they are not included in the special package scheme, I request the Finance Minister that these two districts also should be taken into account because excess demands are mainly to deal with farmers issues. As far as Kerala is concerned, we know that though we are in the forefront in education, health and housing, performance of Kerala is not so good in primary and secondary sectors.  At the same time, the Finance Commission has denied assistance to Kerala just because we are in a better position in education, health and housing.  It is true that in education and other sectors, we have made progress but at the same time, as far as health is concerned, there are a number of new diseases coming up like chikungunya, cancer and other diseases.  We really need more assistance in health sector. In Alleppey alone, we have lost more than 100 people due to diseases. As far as education is concerned, we cannot say that we are in the forefront in higher and technical education.  So, Kerala is really in need of more assistance for technical education and health.  This aspect should be taken into account. I want to place one point before the Finance Minister as regards price rise.   Last time when we discussed, inflation was four per cent and now it is above five per cent.  Of course, there may be a number of reasons for it.  I do not want to go into the details.  At the same time, in the international market, the prices of petrol and diesel have decreased from 71 dollars to 51 dollars per barrel.  There was a discussion in the House also and all the Members, irrespective of treasury benches or the Opposition, were unanimously of the same view that reduction is only Rs. 2 or Re.1. Relief can be given to the extent of Rs. 4 and Rs. 2.  It is seen that this price rise is mainly because of transport cost which is due to the increase in the prices of petrol and diesel.  So, that issue has also to be taken up.  There is a justification to decrease the price because in the international market it has declined to such an extent.  So, we have to give proportionate relief to farmers and others. With these words I conclude. श्रीमती किरण माहेश्वरी ( उदयपुर ): सभापति महोदय, वित्त मंत्री जी द्वारा सदन में पेश की गई अनुदानों की पूरक मांगों का मैं समर्थन करती हूं। साथ ही मुझे बड़ा आश्चर्य होता है कि एक तरफ तो हम भारत निर्माण की बात करते हैं, दूसरी तरफ लगता है कि जब हम भारत निर्माण की बात करते हैं तो राजस्थान उसमें नहीं आता है। लगता है कि आप राजस्थान के साथ संवेदनहीन बने हुए हैं। वह संवेदनहीनता इस तरह से प्रकट होती है कि वहां बाढ़ग्रस्त जैसलमेर और बाड़मेर जैसे जिलों में जहां कई लोग इस भीषण बाढ़ से बेघर हो गए, उन्हें राहत पहुंचाने के लिए कुछ नहीं किया। बाढ़ग्रस्त क्षेत्रों का यूपीए की अध्यक्षा श्रीमती सोनिया गांधी और शिवराज पाटील जी ने दौरा किया था। लेकिन वे केवल वहां घड़ियाली आंसू बहाकर ही वापस आ गए। उन्होंने वहां के लोगों से पुनर्वास करने की, मकान देने की और अन्य वादे किए थे। मैं वित्त मंत्री जी से पूछना चाहती हूं कि उनके दौरे के बाद वहां क्या काम हुआ है? राजस्थान की मुख्य मंत्री ने ३२०० करोड़ रुपए का पैकेज देने की मांग केन्द्र सरकार से की थी, जिसमें पूरा विवरण दिया गया था। लेकिन मुझे अफसोस के साथ कहना पड़ता है कि जब भी हम अनुपूरक मांगे सदन में रखते हैं, उनमें जिक्र नहीं होता कि राजस्थान में बाढ़ से प्रभावित जिलों के लिए राहत देने के लिए इतनी राशि का प्रावधान किया गया है। इसलिए मुझे यह कहने पर विवश होना पड़ रहा है कि प्रदेश सरकार ने ३२०० करोड़ रुपए के पैकेज की जो मांग की है, जिसमें बाढ़ग्रस्त क्षेत्रों के विकास और पुनर्वास की बात शामिल है, उसके प्रति आप संवेदनहीनता दिखा रहे हैं और आपने यहां से एक भी पैसा स्वीकार नहीं किया है। मात्र १०० करोड़ रुपए आपने दिए हैं, वह भी पूर्व में स्वीकृत राशि है। gÉÉÒ àÉvÉÖºÉÚnxÉ ÉÊàÉºjÉÉÒ ( ºÉÉ¤É®BÉEÆ~É ): १५०० करोड़ रुपए राजस्थान को दिए गए हैं, वह तो पहले खर्च करो।…(व्यवधान) MR. CHAIRMAN : Nothing will go on record except Shrimati Kiran Maheshwari’s speech. (Interruptions) …* 

श्रीमती किरण माहेश्वरी : आप सही बात नहीं कह रहे हैं। मैं कहना चाहती हूं कि आप मुझे डिस्टर्ब न करें। वित्त मंत्री जी यहां बैठे हैं, वह जवाब देंगे। उनके द्वारा दिए गए जवाब को ही हम मानेंगे कि कितने करोड़ रुपए दिए गए हैं और कितने देने जा रहे हैं। वैसे तो आप आम आदमी की बात करते हैं, दूसरी तरफ आम आदमी का गला दबा रहे हैं। * Not recorded 
 

        राजस्थान में बाढ़ग्रस्त क्षेत्रों का दौरा करने के लिए डाक्टर्स की टीम यहां से भेजी गई थी, जिसने वहां जाकर परीक्षण करना था। वह टीम भी वहां से बिना प्रशासन को नोटिस दिए अक्तूबर में चली गई। इस प्रकार से लगता है कि केन्द्र सरकार राजस्थान के साथ भेदभाव कर रही है। मुझे यह कहते हुए अफसोस होता है कि एक तरफ तो हम भारत निर्माण की बात करते हैं, दूसरी तरफ इस प्रकार का भेदभाव करते हैं। राजस्थान में चूंकि भारतीय जनता पार्टी की सरकार है इसलिए बजट में उसके लिए कोई प्रावधान नहीं किया जाता है और इन अनुपूरक अनुदानों की मांगों में भी राजस्थान के लिए कोई प्रावधान नहीं किया गया है। मेरा वित्त मंत्री जी से निवेदन है कि राजस्थान द्वारा जो ३२०० करोड़ रुपए के पैकेज की मांग बाढ़ग्रस्त क्षेत्रों में राहत देने के लिए केन्द्र सरकार से की गई है, उसे स्वीकृत किया जाए। इस तरह से आप दरियादिली दिखाएं और बताएं कि हम इतने संवेदनशील हैं। वित्त मंत्री जी अपने जवाब में बताएं कि राजस्थान के लिए कितने पैसे का प्रावधान करने जा रहे हैं? गुजरात से सदस्य यहां बैठे हैं। वहां भी भयंकर बाढ़ आई थी। वहां की सरकार ने २२०० करोड़ रुपए की मांग बाढ़ग्रस्त इलाकों में राहत देने के लिए आपसे की थी, लेकिन मात्र ५०० करोड़ रुपए यहां से रिलीज किए गए हैं। gÉÉÒ àÉvÉÖºÉÚnxÉ ÉÊàÉºjÉÉÒ : ११०० करोड़ रुपए दिए हैं।…(व्यवधान) MR. CHAIRMAN: Nothing will go on record except Shrimati Kiran Maheshwari’s speech. (Interruptions) …* 

MR. CHAIRMAN: Shrimati Kiran Maheshwari, you please conclude. SHRIMATI KIRAN MAHESHWARI :  Yes, I am concluding.  I want just two minutes. … (Interruptions) यह काफी संवेदनशील इश्यू है इसमें इस प्रकार से बात नहीं करनी चाहिए। मैं इसलिए कहना चाहती हूं, क्योंकि हम जनता द्वारा चुनकर यहां आए हैं। उसके साथ इस प्रकार से भेदभाव नहीं होना चाहिए। मुझे याद आता है जब एनडीए सरकार थी, उस समय प्रधान मंत्री श्री अटल बिहारी वाजपेयी थे। उस वक्त राजस्थान में अकाल पड़ा था। तब राजस्थान में कांग्रेस पार्टी की सरकार 

 ______________________________________________________________ 

*Not recorded 

 

 

 

थी, उसके बावजूद उन्होंने कभी भेदभाव नहीं किया। करोड़ों रुपये का बजट वहां दिया और इतना अनाज वहां भेजा कि डेढ़-डेढ़ साल तक लोग उस अनाज को खाते रहे। राजस्थान में भारतीय जनता पार्टी की सरकार है, इसलिए केन्द्र सरकार का ध्यान वहां नहीं जा रहा है। केवल भारत निर्माण कहने से भारत का निर्माण नहीं होगा। आप जो कहते हैं उसे अपने आचरण में भी उतारना होगा, तभी भारत निर्माण का लक्ष्य पूरा होगा। दूसरी बात सर्व-शिक्षा-अभियान की है। सर्व-शिक्षा-अभियान के तहत वहां जो केवल प्राथमिक स्कूलों को लिया गया है, माननीय वित्त मंत्री जी यहां बैठे हुए हैं, वहां जो सर्व-शिक्षा-अभियान है उसमें आप उच्च-माध्यमिक और माध्यमिक स्कूलों को जोड़िये। वहां पर बच्चों का ड्रॉप-आउट रेट बढ़ता जा रहा है। आपने मुझे समय दिया । श्री गिरधारी लाल भार्गव ( जयपुर ) : जो कुछ किरण जी ने यहां कहा, मैं भी अपने को उसके साथ सम्बद्ध करता हूं। MR. CHAIRMAN : Your support is not required.   She is all right and she has spoken well. … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: Now, the Minister of Finance will reply next.   Nobody will be allowed to speak. … (Interruptions) SHRI TAPIR GAO ( ARUNACHAL EAST ): Mr. Chairman, Sir when Shri P. Chidambaram was made the Minister of Finance of this country, the entire country was happy that one good economist of this country has been made the Minister of Finance.   But too much `Economist’ when he becomes a Minister of Finance, he is really concerned for more on productivity.   For a country like India, it has got imbalance in the country’s economy on the ground reality.  … (Interruptions) I will not make a long speech. Sir, when I had gone through the Supplementary Demands for Grants of 2006-07, in the case of North-Eastern Region, there is only Rs. 38.25 crore really which will be benefiting to the North-Eastern Region.  But when we divide it into eight States of the North-Eastern Region, it will come only Rs. 4.78 crore each. So, how can the economic development of the North-Eastern Region be done and when can it join the mainstream of this country?  This is a great concern for the North-Eastern Region people. Sir, last time also I made an appeal that the geographical factors should be taken into account while placing for the development of this nation.   So, when you are taking into account the development of the total North-Eastern Region, you are considering it as a single State.  But it is a wrong step for the North-Eastern States as we have got eight States in the North-Eastern Region. Sir, for the development of the North-East Region, there is a North-East Council.   In the Tenth Five Year Plan, the funds earmarked were Rs. 3,500 crore, but this is the end of the Tenth Five Year Plan. In the North-Eastern Region, you have allotted Rs. 2,511.50 crore.   The gap between the lay out and the actual allotment is Rs. 988.05 crore.   So, I would like to know whether the hon. Minister of Finance will carry forward the lapse of this Tenth Five Year Plan to the Eleventh Five Year Plan.  This is a great concern for the North-Eastern States. Sir, I will make only one point.  In the non-lapsable Central Pool, in lieu of the ten per cent ratio to the North-Eastern States, you are deducting from NLCPR Rs. 92 crore for the North-Eastern States.  I was looking at the Supplementary Demands for Grants that it will be from the Ministry of Human Resource Development.  But it has not been corrected so far. We are happy that the Government of India is giving yearly Rs. 100 crore yearly to the Bodoland . But we felt that the NLCPR would be totally utilized for the development of the North-Eastern Region. From the NLCPR, you are deducting Rs.100 crore for the Bodoland yearly. It is in great concern. I was looking from the Finance Ministry’s Demands for Grants that this Rs.100 crore would be allocated to Bodoland from Home Ministry. Therefore, this is a regional imbalance. For development of this country, we have to consider the geographical factor of the North-Eastern Region. We came to know that you have got a great objection to the Bogibeel Bridge  which was supposed to be placed under the National Project. If there is no objection from the Finance Ministry, will the Finance Minister  advocate for the placement  of the Bogibeel Bridge railway-cum-road at Dibrugarh under the  National Project Scheme? If it is done, the North-Eastern people, especially the Upper Assam and Arunachal Pradesh will benefit from this Bogibeel Bridge. … (Interruptions) Now, I am the last speaker. I now come to the last point.  Mr. Minister, you are a good economist. I hope you will reply on accountability and monitoring.    You will rely on the C&AG Report. When the C&AG reports that there is misappropriation of developmental activities in the North-Eastern Region, how many of the officials or the State Governments have been taken into account under the C&AG report when there is no real development at the ground level? Therefore, accountability and monitoring is also necessary while ensuring development of the North-Eastern Region. In your reply, I would like to get reply to these two or three points. One is about the lapse of Rs.988 crore in the NEC of the Tenth Five Year Plan which will be carried forward to the Eleventh Five Year Plan for the development of the North-Eastern Region. I would like to know whether the Bogibeel Bridge will be placed under the National Projects under your initiative. I would also like to know whether the SSA  amount of Rs.92 crore deducted from the NLCPR  and for Bodoland Rs.100 crore deducted from the NLCPR would be met through from the  concerned Ministry. I hope and I wish that an economist of the stature of the hon. Finance Minister would give reply to these few points. With these words, I conclude. श्री गणेश सिंह ( सतना ) : महोदय, माननीय वित्त मंत्री जी द्वारा प्रस्तुत वर्ष २००६-०७ के लिए अनुदानों की पूरक मांगों को मैं अनुपयुक्त तथा कई मामलों में फिजूलखर्ची मानता हूं। केंद्र की यूपीए सरकार ने जो योजनाएं देश में संचालित कीहैं, उनका कोई खास असर दिखाई नहीं दे रहा है। भारत निर्माण योजना सिर्फ कागजों तक ही सीमित रह गई है। ग्रामीण विकास में अधिकांश योजनाएं नौ दिन चले अढ़ाई कोस की तरह हैं। रोजगार गारंटी योजना में सभी योजनाएं समाहित कर दी गई हैं और इस योजना का लम्बा-चौड़ा ढिंढोरा पीटा जा रहा है। उक्त योजना को २०० जिलों में प्रारम्भ किया गया है और इसी सदन में कहा गया था कि इस योजना को देश के सभी जिलों में जल्द से जल्द चालू कर दिया जाएगा। दूसरे चरण की शुरूआत कब से होगी, इसका जबाव ग्रामीण विकास मंत्री ने दिया था कि योजना आयोग के पास मामला विचाराधीन है। यह उसी तरह से कहावत सिद्ध होगी कि " न नौ मन तेल होगा और न राधा नाचेगी "। उक्त योजना के अंदर व्यावहारिक कठिनाइयां हैं, जिन्हें दूर नहीं किया गया। बजट के अभाव में एक-एक माह तक श्रमिकों को उनकी मजदूरी का भुगतान नहीं दिया जाता है। दूसरी तरफ श्रमिकों को पूरी मजदूरी भी नहीं पड़ती है, इसलिए श्रमिकों में इस योजना के प्रति निराशा होती जा रही है। केन्द्र सरकार लगातार गैस कांग्रेस शासित राज्यों को सिवाय कोसने के अलावा कुछ नहीं कर रही है। केंद्र सरकार की भारत निर्माण योजना, जिसका भयंकर प्रचार प्रसार किया था उसका कोई असर देश में किसी भी हिस्से में नहीं दिखाई दे रहा है। किसान आत्महत्या कर रहा हे, प्रधानमंत्री जी के पैकेज देने के बाद भी आत्महत्याएं नही रुक पा रही हैं। प्रधानमंत्री ग्राम सड़कें कछुआ चाल से चल रही हैं, देश के अंदर भयंकर महंगाई बढ़ी है जिसे रोक पाने में सरकार पूरी तरह से असफल रही हे। देश में कई राज्य भयंकर बिजली के संकट में हैं, बिजली के उत्पादन के कई प्रस्ताव केंद्र सरकार के पास विचाराधीन हैं लेकिन उनकी स्वीकृति नहीं दी जा रही है। अकेले मध्य प्रदेश सरकार का २००० हजार मेगावाट के परमाणु बिजली उत्पादन की स्वीकृति हेतु केंद्र के पास विचाराधीन है। लेकिन आज तक स्वीकृति नही दी गई है। इस तरह देश के हजारों गांवों में अपरम्परागत ऊर्जा रुाोतों के माध्यम से विद्युत पहुंचाने की योजना बजट के अभाव में पूरी नहीं हो पा रही हैं। *The speech was laid on the Table. देश के कई राज्य वर्तमान में सूखे की चपेट में हैं, पहले भीषण बारिश से तबाही हुई थी और अब सूखे की मार झेल रहे हैं। मेरे मध्य प्रदेश के २२ जिले सूखे हैं जहां कल तक अध्ययन दल नहीं गया जबकि मैंने सदन में कई बार इस संबंध में कहा है। नदियों को जोड़ने का मामला विचाराधीन है लेकिन उसकी स्वीकृति नहीं दी गई है। मेरे क्षेत्र में राष्ट्रीय राजमार्ग संख्या ७ में मेहर के पास ओवरब्रिज बनाने एवं एनएच ७५ में सतना शहर में बाईपास बनाने का प्रस्ताव विचाराधीन है, स्वीकृति दिलाई जाए। THE MINISTER OF FINANCE ( SHRI P. CHIDAMBARAM ):  Sir, I am grateful to a the larger number of hon. Members who took the time and the trouble to  stay back today while it is half past Seven to participate in this debate. This is Supplementary Demands for Grants. When I heard one of the hon. Members, she almost implied that I was committing an outrage on Parliament. This is not the first time that Supplementary Demands for Grants are moved. Every year, there is a first batch of Supplementary; there is a second batch of Supplementary and there is a third batch of Supplementary. The reasons why we move these Supplementary Demands for Grants are explained in the Memorandum. Let me just give one example. We have identified 31 districts which are suicide-prone and a large sum of money has been allocated after the hon. Prime Minister visited these States and announced the package.  Surely, on the 28th of February, 2006, one cannot anticipate that in the month of September the hon. Prime Minister would announce a package to take care of the suicide-prone districts.  You cannot anticipate on the 28th of February that fertilizer prices will go up. On the 28th of February, I said: “We will give a 2 per cent subvention on agricultural loans lent by the commercial banks and the RRBs.”  Many States accepted it and many  States like Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Punjab agreed to provide the 2 per cent subvention to loans from the cooperative societies from their own funds. But some other States said: “No, you will have to give it to us from the Centre.”  We discussed it. Then, we said: “All right.”  Although  some States have agreed to give it from their own funds, yet some other States wanted it from the Central funds. We said: “All right, we will give it from the Central funds.”  I could not have anticipated on the 28th of February that a decision of that kind would be taken in response to the State Chief Ministers’ demands. So, the problem is, what we speak depends on where we sit. SHRI KHARABELA SWAIN : That is what I am reminding you. SHRI P. CHIDAMBARAM : I am reminding you of that. When I was there, well, I was not there for a long time, most of the time I was here, the point is, there is no point in speaking what we are told to speak. One must address the issues that are on hand. Sir, it is only somebody who is extremely prejudiced who can say that the economy is headed towards ruin. Today, the Indian economy is the second fastest growing economy in the world. I do not want to get into a big argument, but the facts speak for themselves. For six years, the BJP-led Government was in office. In one year it was 3.8 per cent growth, in one year it was 4.4 per cent growth and in one year it was 5.1 per cent. In three out of six years, growth was less than 6 per cent. In two years it was 6.1 per cent and 6.5 per cent and in one year it was 8.5 per cent and that, as everybody has pointed out, was partly a statistical illusion because it was on the back of 3.8 per cent growth. The average growth rate for a six year period was 5.8 per cent. In 2004-05, 2005-06 and 2006-07, in 10 quarters of the UPA Government, in 9 quarters we have had growth of more than 7 per cent, only in one quarter we had 6.7 per cent growth which was higher than their average and for the years, it was 7.5 per cent, 8.4 per cent and now in the half year it is 9.1 per cent. They may not wish to join us in savouring the moment and celebrating the growth, but surely they cannot hide these figures and say that we are going towards ruin. The point is, India is growing, but India’s growth has to be inclusive growth, India’s growth has to be equitable growth. What I said two days after I took office as the Finance Minister is, and what the Prime Minister said even yesterday. India must shine, but it must shine for all. It will shine for all only if we have growth and then the growth is converted to equity and social justice. What Parliament should do is, ensure that whatever growth we deliver is converted to equitable growth, inclusive growth, growth with a human face and growth which brings about social justice. My business, as I see, is to promote growth. Our collective wisdom must convert that growth into equitable and inclusive growth. SHRIMATI KIRAN MAHESHWARI : What about Rajasthan? SHRI P. CHIDAMBARAM : Please wait Madam. It is not possible to answer instantly to what you asked 15 minutes ago. If the answer comes I will give it to you. Otherwise I will write to you. Whatever answers I have got, I will give you the answers. Sir, we have devolved more resources to States than ever before. If you look at the Budget that was presented on the 28th of February, you will find that in 2005-06, the States’ share of taxes was Rs. 94,402 crore. In the current year it will be Rs. 1,13,448 crore. Let me tell you, it will be more because if we collect more we will devolve more. Non-Plan Grants and Loans last year was Rs. 30,489 crore. This year it will be Rs. 35,461 crore. Central Assistance to States and Union Territories with Plans last year was Rs. 33,891 crore. This year it will be Rs. 37,971 crore. There is no question or starving States of funds. Let us take this year. Up to October, 2006, total Grants transferred to States was Rs. 44,537 crore as against the figure of Rs. 36,775 crore for the corresponding period of last year.[R70] Taxes up to October : we have already transferred Rs.57,003 crore as against last year’s Rs.47,645 crore.  It is completely wrong to say that the States are being starved of funds.  In fact, as on 8th of December, cash balances of all States put together is Rs.42,247 crore.  Only one State has an overdraft of a small amount of Rs.288 crore.  All other States have healthy cash balances.  As of 8th December, 2006, the cash balance was Rs.42,247 crore. Sir, people said that I am only looking at figures, I am only looking at growth, I am only looking at revenues.  We do not look at the aam aadmi.  What is aam aadmi?  What does he want?  The student belongs to aam aadmi.  He wants education loans.  When this Government took office, in the previous year, the total education loans that were outstanding were Rs.4,550 crore and as on September 2006, it is Rs.12,106 crore.  Almost three times education loans have been given.  These education loans go to our children, our nephews, our sisters, our brothers.  People who would never have gone to college have got education loans.  The annual disbursement of education loan in the first year of this Government was Rs.2163 crore.  In the second year, it was Rs.3,238 crore and in the current year in the first six months, it is Rs.2,155 crore.  I am confident that we will cross Rs.4,000 crore this year in education loans. Take agriculture.  Who belongs to the farming sector?  It is the aam aadmi again, unless we have a different definition of aam aadmi, depending on where we sit. In 2003-04 when the BJP Government left office, the total amount of farm credit was Rs.86,981 crore.  I said, we would double it in three years.  So, Rs.86,981 crore into two, if my arithmetic is right, is about Rs.1,73,000 crore.  I should have done it in three years. As against Rs.1,73,000 crore, in two years, we did Rs.1,67,000 crore, nearly double in two years.  This year, the target is Rs.1,75,000 crore.  We have already done Rs. 1,13,000 crore.  The Rabi crop will come, more loans will be given.  By the end of the year, please be assured, we will cross Rs.1,75,000 crore by a large number. A question was asked, why are some banks not achieving 18 per cent lending to agriculture.  It was a good question.  But there is an answer to it.  Agricultural credit is the numerator and the total credit is denominator.  Agricultural credit is growing at a fast pace.  The numbers given prove that.  But the total credit is growing  at a faster pace.  As a result of that, even while we are adding to 60 lakhs to 70 lakhs to farmers to institutional credit, even while we are growing agricultural credit by 30 per cent, because the denominator is growing at a faster rate, banks are not able to show that 18 per cent.  That is purely a derived figure.  What should be looked at it is, are more farmers being given agricultural credit, is the growth rate of agriculture is good, and am I going to achieve the doubling of agricultural credit in three years?  The answer to each of these questions is a resounding ‘yes’ and we will do better as we go along. Sir, I would be disappointed if my friend, Mr. Swain, does not ask me about NHAI and he would be disappointed if I do not answer him about NHAI.  What are the facts?  I am going to give him the papers signed today and I hope he will countersign that for me.  The total length of Golden Quadrilateral is 5,846 kms.  I wish Mr. Swain will note down these figures. [r71]  

Progress until today, length completed is 5475 kilometres, that is 93.65 per cent.  We have 371 kilometres which remains to be completed.  Each one of them is locked up in some dispute, was locked up in some dispute or some problem like contractor running away and land acquisition, some problem or the other.  Sir, 35 contracts are under implementation  to complete the 371 kilometres.  Once these 35 contracts are completed, these 371 kilometres are completed, Golden Quadrilateral will be completed.  I will be the first person to go to Mr. Atal Behari Vajpayee’s house and tell him: “Sir, the Golden Quadrilateral is completed.”  Please do not have any worry.  We are as much committed to it as your Government was.  In fact when you left the Office, you had completed less than half; we have completed the balance.  So you take credit, we take credit; together the country must take credit for completing the Golden Quadrilateral.  Where is the partisanship in this, I cannot understand. … (Interruptions) SHRI KHARABELA SWAIN : I am not talking about partisanship.… (Interruptions) SHRI P. CHIDAMBARAM : I am giving you the figures.… (Interruptions) SHRI KHARABELA SWAIN : Kindly listen to me for one minute. MR. CHAIRMAN : No.  I can allow only if he is yielding.  He is not yielding. … (Interruptions) SHRI P. CHIDAMBARAM :  It is completely wrong to say because of one stretch of the Golden Quadrilateral is not completed, you cannot go from this point to that point.  Let me give you an example.  If you travel from Chennai to Bangalore, you will have to go via  Poonamallee, Sriperumbudur, and Kanchipuram.  Now, there is a bridge which is not complete.  But, that does not mean you cannot travel on that road.  You simply have to take a small detour of about half a kilometer or for about two furlongs.  You take a detour and join the other place, and you can still go to Kanchipuram and Sriperumbudur.  It is not as though you cannot go to Bangalore ; you come with me, I will take you and show you.  That bridge is incomplete.  But, what am I to do?  That bridge is part of a dispute.  Now, the disputes have been resolved; 35 contracts are under implementation; 371 kilometres remain.  Once that is complete, the entire 5846 kilometres will be complete. Some question was asked about remunerative prices for farmers.  We have a CACP mechanism.  This Government – I believe the previous Government also – never departed from the CACP Recommendations.  Whatever the CACP says, we have given.  We have given a little more.  Look at the prices.  For paddy – I am only taking the common variety – in 2001-02 Government gave Rs. 530; in 2002-03 Government gave Rs. 530; and in 2003-04 Government gave Rs. 550, Rs. 20 more.  We came into office in 2004-05 and gave Rs. 560.  Next year we gave Rs. 570; Last year – in 2006-07 –we gave Rs. 620.  So, we have increased it by Rs. 50. For Wheat, in 2001-02 we gave Rs. 610; in 2002-03, we gave Rs. 620, there is an increase of Rs. 10; in 2003-04 we gave Rs. 630, there is an increase of Rs. 10.  We came in 2004-05.  In 2005-06 we gave Rs. 640; in 2006-07 we gave Rs. 700; in 2007-08 rabi crop we have given Rs. 750.  So, we have given remunerative prices far more than what the CACP recommended.  It is not as though this Government is not giving remunerative prices. Some question was asked about what was given to Chhattisgarh; what was given to Madhya Pradesh; what was given to Rajasthan from Calamity Relief Fund.  I have got these figures; I have not verified them.  I am assuming that these figures are right.  Subject to correction, these are the figures.  To Chhattisgarh we have given Rs. 150.32 crore under CRF.  To Madhya Pradesh we have given Rs. 246.67 crore under CRF and 30.85 crore under NCCF.. … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: Kindly do not interrupt. … (Interruptions) SHRI P. CHIDAMBARAM : I can only say one at a time.  When I am talking about Madhya Pradesh, how can I talk about others? To Rajasthan, we have given Rs. 413.66 crore under CRF and Rs. 100 crore under NCCF.  These are the figures.  So, whatever figures you have got may not be correct.  Kindly check your figures.  These are the figures I have.  I have given it instantly as I have got it.  I am subject to correction but you kindly check your figures. Sir, some question is asked about … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN : Let him finish his reply. … (Interruptions) SHRI P. CHIDAMBARAM : Sir, some question  about the reduction of Rs. 92 crore in the North-East.  The answer that I have got is this.  Sir, Rs. 90 crore was given for Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan to cover the gap of 15 per cent in State share from NLCPR to the North-Eastern States.  It is not as though Rs. 92 crore was deducted and taken away.  From the Non-lapsable Fund, Rs. 90 crore was transferred to Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan to be spent in the North-Eastern States.  Therefore, there was no net loss of money.  There is only from one Head, the money is being spent for another Head, for Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan.  … (Interruptions) Sir, unless I put on this headphone, I would not be able to listen. … (Interruptions) Sir, this is not the time to talk about special package.  Madam, you must ask this during the discussion on the Demands for the Ministries and talk about the special package related to that Ministry. Sir, I need not explain once again the Heads under which I am asking … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: Mr. Minister, have you finished your reply? … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN:  Nothing is going on record. (Interruptions) …* 

SHRI P. CHIDAMBARAM :  Sir, this is neither the time nor the place to talk about special packages.  Therefore, with great respect, I regret my inability to respond to your demand about special packages.  We are talking about the second batch of Demands for Supplementary Grants. … (Interruptions)  Madam, I have given you the number.  You can kindly check your number. The only thing that is worrying me is inflation. … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: Nothing will go on record except the Minister’s speech. (Interruptions) …* 

SHRI P. CHIDAMBARAM : The only thing that is worrying me is inflation.  Inflation is largely a monetary phenomenon.  When the economy is growing at nine per cent, when credit demand is growing by 30 per cent, when commercial real estate, housing sector, retail loans, agricultural loans, educational loans, and industries demand are all growing at a very fast rate, there is bound to be some inflationary impact.  In fact, it is well accepted now that inflation is a monetary phenomenon.  We are taking steps on the monetary side; we will take steps on the fiscal side.  I am not happy with this inflation.  Nobody is happy with this inflation.  But this is not the first time this is happening.  I just want to remind the House one thing and conclude.  In 1998-99, for four weeks in the month of July, and for nearly seven weeks in the months of October to December, inflation was above seven per cent.  In the year 2000-01, barring about eight weeks, for 44 weeks inflation was well above six per cent, and for most of the time it was above seven per cent.  In the week ending 13th of January, 2001, inflation touched 8.8 per cent.  In the year 2003-04, inflation in four weeks was well above 6.2 per cent.  As the BJP handed over power to us, in the month of May, inflation had touched 6.7 per cent. * Not recorded          
 

In fact, Sir, 8.8 per cent in the week ending 13th of January, 2001 was the highest inflation for a week in ten years.  Therefore, inflation is not peculiar to what is happening now. Sir, memories may have faded; inflation figures may not have affected you then because you were in the Treasury Benches.  But the point is that inflation has been there from time to time. We brought down inflation to a low of 3.7 per cent early this year.  Now, inflation has crept up a bit.  It is largely a monetary phenomenon.  That is why the Reserve Bank increased the CRR a couple of days ago to suck out liquidity from the market.  With supply side also improving, with new sugar coming into the market, with new wheat coming into the market in March, and monetary steps being taken, inflation will be moderated.  I am not happy about inflation.  We will take more steps to moderate inflation.  Except this one fly in the ointment, economy is firing in all cylinders; industry is growing; and service sector is growing.  As regards agriculture, please do not go by the second quarter because the second quarter is always a lean quarter.  Let us wait for the third and the fourth quarters.[R72]  

            I am sure the kind of investment that has been made in agriculture, agriculture will also pick up. The economy is doing well. There are demands for fertilizer, for transfer of money to States and for paramilitary. Therefore, I have come to this House asking for more money. Fortunately, we can afford to spend this money. We can afford to transfer this money to the States. We can afford to buy more fertilizer. We can afford to give more to our paramilitary and our Delhi Police. We have the money. We can give it. Despite Mr. Kharabela Swain’s predictions of doom, I am confident that when I rise to present the Budget on the 28th of February, I will be able to say that we have met the fiscal deficit target and we have met the revenue deficit target. With these words, I request the House to pass the Supplementary Demands for Grants. … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN : No more questions. SHRI TAPIR GAO ( ARUNACHAL EAST ): What will happen to the lapsing of Rs.988.05 crore of NEC under the Tenth Five Year Plan?… (Interruptions) SHRI P. CHIDAMBARAM : I do not have the answer. I will find out and give you. I cannot give instant answers. MR. CHAIRMAN: I shall now put the Demands for Excess Grants (General) for 2004-2005 to the vote of the House. The question is :