J.B. PARDIWALA, J. For the convenience of exposition, this judgment is divided into the following parts: - ordinate, organize maintain and carry on activities connected with
 one of health quality of life, nursing facilities, socio-economic
 aspects, general welfare and problems of the society with special
 emphasis on provision of services for the underprivileged sections
 of the society as per Govt. rule. 4.1.2 To develop, establish, make and provide microcredit
 microfinance and all other related services, and to help, aid,
 assist, arrange, contribute, co-ordinate, organize maintain and
 carry on activities connected with concerns of microcredit and
 micro finance. Socio-economic aspects, general welfare and
 problems of the society with special emphasis on provision of
 services for the underprivileged sections of the society as per Govt.
 rule. 4.1.3 To establish hospitals, medical schools and colleges, nursing
 schools and colleges, dispensaries, laboratories research
 institutions and other educational institutions as per Govt. rule.

 4.1.4 To purchase or otherwise deal in medicines and equipment
 required for maintenance of health, hygiene and microcredit/
 microfinance. 4.1.5 To aid, promote establish, maintain, run and encourage
 alternative systems of medicine and establish training and
 research centers for this purpose as Govt, rule. 4.1.6 To aid, promote, establish, maintain, run and encourage
 microcredit/microfinance as per Govt. rule. 4.1.7 To open centers and institutes for diagnostic, curative,
 therapeutic and research of medical sciences as per Govt. rule,

 4.1.8 To provide free medicines to the poor.” 4. The MoA of the appellant Society also stipulates that all the incomes and earnings

 of the society, whether movable or immovable, shall solely be utilised to further the

 aims and objectives of the appellant Society. Furthermore, it is also stated that the Page No. 3 of 167 members of the appellant society would not be entitled to any profits by virtue of

 their membership. The relevant portion of the MoA is extracted hereinbelow: 5. A few other relevant clauses from the Articles of Association (hereinafter, the

 “AoA”) of the appellant Society are reproduced hereinbelow: 6.1 Shall attend the Board of meetings regularly; 6.2 Shall give necessary information to the Society, pertaining to
 matters necessary to be known by the Society; 6.3 Shall not indulge in activities, which may prove prejudicial to
 the Aims and Objects of the Society and/or to the Rules and
 Regulations of the Society; 6.4 Shall maintain sanctity of the secrets and confidentiality of
 police matters of the Society and its members; -xxx- 11.2 POWERS & DUTIES OF THE EXECUTIVE
 COMMITTEE Page No. 4 of 167 11.2.1 All the properties, movable, immovable, and other kind of
assets shall stand vested in the Committee. 11.2.2 The business and the affairs of the Society shall be managed
and administered by the Committee. 11.2.3 Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
provisions, the Committee shall have the following powers.

11.2.3.1 To acquire by gift, purchase, exchange, lease or in any
other manner land, building, or other immovable, property
together with all rights pertaining thereto. 11.2.3.2 To manage the properties of the Society. 11.2.3.3 To accept the management of any trust, fund, or
endowment or any other … in which the Society is interested.

11.2.3.4 To raise funds for the Society by way of gifts, donations,
grants-in-aid or otherwise within India or outside, as provided in
the bye-laws. 11.2.3.5 To raise loans, stand guarantee for loans and do all acts
necessary to raising the loans to further the objects of the Society.

11.2.3.6 To receive monies, securities, instruments, investments,
or any other assets for and on behalf of the Society. 11.2.3.7 To enter into agreements contracts for and on behalf of
the Society. 11.2.3.8 To manage, serve, transfer or otherwise dispose-off any
property, movable or immovable of the Society. 11.2.3.9 To prescribe the powers, duties and functions of the
office-bearers. 11.2.3.10 To exercise control over the President and the General
secretary of the Society including the powers of dismissal.

11.2.3.11 To appoint the Secretary of the Society. 11.2.3.12 To elect new members to the Committee when casual
vacancies occur. Page No. 5 of 167 11.2.3.13 To appoint the Secretary of the society. -xxx- 13. SOURCES OF INCOME & UTILIAZATION OF FUNDS
 Funds will be raised by way of grants-in-aid, donations, gifts,
 subscriptions fees, and income from investments, loans and other
 means available to the Society under the Act. Funds will be used
 to carry out the Aims and Objectives of the Society.” 6. Dr. Shelly Batra (hereinafter, the “respondent no. 1/original plaintiff no. 1”) is a

 medical health professional and co-founder of the appellant Society. Vide

 communication dated 19.06.2020, Mr. Sandeep Ahuja (hereinafter, the “respondent

 no. 3/original defendant no. 2”) who is also the co-founder and CEO of the

 appellant Society terminated the services/employment of the respondent no. 1. The

 communication alleged that the termination of the respondent no. 1 was on account

 of various “omissions including misrepresentation” of her daughter’s previous

 employment, fabrication of documents, misappropriation of the assets and funds of

 the NGO as well as gross misbehaviour with the staff and the employees.

 Subsequently, on 23.06.2020, the Board of the appellant Society is said to have

 passed a resolution terminating the respondent no. 1 from the post/office of President

 of the appellant Society. Soon thereafter, on 27.06.2020, the Board of the appellant

 Society is also said to have removed the respondent no. 1 from her capacity as a

 member of their Board. 7. Mrs. Usha Gupta, (hereinafter, the “Respondent No. 2/original plaintiff no. 2”),

 who is the mother of the respondent no. 1, is one of the current members of the Board Page No. 6 of 167 of the appellant Society. Immediately after the removal of the respondent no. 1 as a

 Board member, both the respondent no. 1 and respondent no. 2 (collectively also

 referred to as the “original plaintiffs”) instituted an Original Suit bearing CS (OS)

 No. 153 of 2020 on 28.06.2020 under Section 92 of the CPC before a learned Single

 Judge of the High Court for declaration, permanent & prohibitory injunction and,

 rendition of accounts. They alleged misconduct and breach of several of the society’s

 by-laws by the respondent no.3 and one Ms. Suniti Ahuja (hereinafter, the

 “respondent no. 4/original defendant no. 3”). The original defendant nos. 4 to 8

 respectively are current Board members and the original defendant no. 9 is a former

 Board member of the appellant Society. 8. To further elaborate in detail, the respondent nos. 1 and 2 respectively (original

 plaintiffs) alleged the following in the suit instituted by them: 9. The reliefs prayed for in the aforesaid suit are reproduced hereinbelow: and/or c) Pass a decree for permanent & prohibitory injunction against
 the Defendant Nos.2 and 3 by removing them from the Board of
 Defendant No.1 on account of the illegalities & breach of the bye-
 laws of Defendant No.1, and restraining them from being involved
 in the activities/affairs of the Board of Defendant No.1 either as
 member or employee or contractor or advisor or anyway
 whatsoever; (d) Pass a decree for rendition of accounts of profits/monies
 siphoned, misappropriated, illegally earned by Defendant Nos.2-
 3 for their personal use/benefit from the accounts/funds of
 Defendant No.1, and further a decree for recovery of the amount
 be found to be due, siphoned, misappropriated, etc. by the Page No. 9 of 167 Defendant Nos. 2-3 along with interest @18% in favour of
 Defendant No. 1; and/or

 I Pass a decree or order regarding settling the scheme of the
 Defendant No. 1 by amending its bye-laws in such manner that no
 one family gets complete control of the affairs of Defendant No. 1: 3 to 10 (collectively referred to as the “original defendants”) before the learned

 Single Judge of the High Court. In the said application, it was stated that the

 appellant Society is a public charitable institution - an NGO engaged in the

 healthcare industry. The main objectives of the society as evidenced by its by-laws

 is public welfare and therefore, it would fall under the ambit of “public charities”

 mentioned under Section 92 of the CPC. The respondent nos. 1 and 2 respectively

 (original plaintiffs) have been involved in the functioning of the appellant Society

 since its inception and have a justified and bona fide interest in the society,

 Therefore, they are “interested persons” as required by Section 92. Furthermore,

 since numerous breaches have occurred in the conduct of business/affairs of the

 appellant Society, the direction of the court would be of utmost necessity for its

 administration. Page No. 10 of 167 11. After taking seisin of the matter, vide order dated 05.08.2020, the learned Single

 Judge of the High Court appointed Justice (retd.) R.V. Easwar as the Chairperson of

 the Board of the appellant Society with the consent of both the parties. Directions

 were issued to the Chairperson to submit a report and conduct a financial audit in

 order to ascertain, amongst others, whether there has been a defalcation or siphoning

 off of funds that the donors have contributed towards the appellant Society and to

 make suggestions as to how the working of the society can be improved. The

 Chairperson submitted three reports dated 26.08.2020, 03.10.2020 and 09.12.2020

 respectively. On, 13.08.2021, an Interim Forensic Audit Report and on 20.09.2021,

 a Final Forensic Audit Report respectively, are also said to have been submitted by

 the auditors appointed for the said purpose. 12. The learned Single Judge of the High Court vide the judgment and order dated

 03.05.2024 granted leave to the respondent nos. 1 and 2 (original plaintiffs) for the

 purpose of instituting a suit under Section 92 of the CPC. While holding that all the

 elements and ingredients under Section 92 of the CPC stood fulfilled and granting

 leave, the learned Single Judge observed as follows: -xxx- “22.4. Furthermore, a perusal of the Articles of Association
(‘AOA’) of defendant No.1 society inter-alia shows that the
management of the society is entrusted to an Executive Committee,
which is entitled to raise funds for the society by way of gifts,
donations, grants-in-aid or otherwise, which funds are to be used
to carry-out the aims and objectives of the society. Attention in this
behalf may be drawn to Article 13 of the AoA of the society, which
reads as follows […]

In the opinion of this court, the formal ‘entrustment’ of property
or funds by a third-party to defendant No.1 society is not a
necessary ingredient to hold that the society is a constructive
trust’. If that formality were a sine-qua-non, the very distinction
between a ‘trust’ and a ‘constructive trust’ would get obliterated.
This court is of the view, that any grant-in-aid, donation or gift
made by a third-party to the society is, by its very nature, meant
and intended to be used for the benefit of those in need of medical
care in furtherance of the objects and purpose of the society. This,
in itself, is sufficient to infer that all such grants-in-aid, donations,
gifts etc. made to the society are property entrusted to it, by reason
of which the society acquires the character of a 'constructive
trust'.”

22.5. Also, defendant No.1 is evidently engaged in a public
purpose of charitable nature, since it provides medical-aid and
relief to patients of tuberculosis who otherwise cannot afford
treatment, thereby fulfilling the other criterion of section 92 CPC.

22.6. In this manner, defendant No.1 society fulfils all conditions
necessary to invoke section 92 CPC, as enunciated by the Supreme
Court in Ashok Kumar Gupta (supra) and the elements required
to qualify as a 'constructive trust' as laid down by a Co-ordinate Page No. 14 of 167 Bench of this court in The Young Mens Christian Association of
 Ernakulam (supra) cited above. 23. In addition, the IFAR as well as the multiple audit reports
 submitted in relation to the administration and financial affairs of
 the society, including under the chairmanship of Justice Easwar,
 clearly disclose that the manner in which the affairs of the society
 are being run, requires closer consideration and scrutiny. 24. Furthermore, the claims made in the suit also co-relate and
 fall within the scope of the reliefs contemplated in section 92 CPC,
 especially section 92(d) and (h) thereof; 25. In the above view of the matter, this court is persuaded to hold
 that all elements and ingredients of section 92 CPC are satisfied;
 and that therefore, the plaintiffs are entitled to grant of leave to
 institute the present suit under section 92 , CPC. 26. To obviate any ambiguity, it may be clarified that the grant of
 leave to the plaintiffs to institute the suit would not prevent the
 court from dismissing die suit subsequently, if the allegations
 contained in the plaint are found not to be substantiated. 27. The application is accordingly allowed.”
 (Emphasis supplied)

B. THE IMPUGNED JUDGMENT 14. Aggrieved by the aforesaid judgment and order of the learned Single Judge dated

 03.05.2024, the appellant Society preferred an appeal being FAO (OS) No. 114 of

 2024 before the Division Bench of the High Court. The Division Bench while

 dismissing the appeal, observed as follows: 2) is a party having an “interest” in the society. Moreover, the respondent no. 2 has

 not even signed the plaint in the instant suit. 22. In light of the aforesaid, it was submitted that the impugned decision is upheld, it

 would obliterate the distinction carved out by law between a ‘trust’ and a ‘society’

 for which two different legislations have been enacted. Therefore, it was prayed that Page No. 21 of 167 the impugned decision be set aside and the underlying suit, pending before the High

 Court, be dismissed. ii. Submissions on behalf of the respondent no. 1 23. On the other hand, Mr. Jai Anant Dehadrai, the learned counsel appearing for the

 respondent no. 1 submitted that the ingredients required to be satisfied before

 invoking Section 92 of the CPC was clearly laid down in Ashok Kumar Gupta (supra) as follows: 24. The counsel submitted that the appellant society was formed with the specific aim

 to serve the underprivileged members of the society who are suffering from

 tuberculosis and who cannot afford its treatment. The same is evident from the MoA

 of the appellant Society. The donors, who are based in India as well as abroad,

 primarily the United States, were providing funds in order to further this very

 objective. Therefore, the appellant Society, being engaged in the social welfare of

 the general public, possesses the characteristics of an organisation with a ‘charitable

 nature’. Page No. 22 of 167 25. In order to canvass the argument that a society registered under the Societies

 Registration Act, 1860 can be construed as a ‘constructive trust’, the counsel placed

 reliance on the decision of the Delhi High Court in The Young Mens Christian

 Association of Ernakulam and Ors. v. National Council YMCAS of India reported

 in 2018 SCC OnLine Del 9909 wherein it was opined that a society registered under

 the Societies Registration Act, 1860 can be construed as a constructive trust if its

 satisfies the elements mentioned in Section 3 of the Indian Trusts Act, 1882. 26. It was submitted that the appellant Society is being entrusted with the funds from

 the donors for public service. Upon a perusal of the Memorandum of Association, it

 is evident that all the earnings and income generated, or funds received by the society

 shall only be utilised for the betterment of the general public and to provide free

 health services, and no profits shall be transferred directly or indirectly to the

 members of the society. Additionally, Clause 11.2.1 of the AoA specifically

 provides that “All the properties, movable, immovable and other kind of assets shall

 stand vested in the Committee”. Therefore, all the donor funds, gifts etc. are

 entrusted to the appellant Society to be utilised for the public purpose as enumerated

 in the aims and objectives contained in its MoA. For all these reasons, the society

 acquires the character of a ‘constructive trust’. 27. It was submitted that the reliefs sought in the plaint are in complete consonance with Section 92(1) of the CPC and the impugned decision has specifically held that the

 reliefs sought by the respondent nos. 1 and 2 respectively in their plaint, in particular, Page No. 23 of 167 prayers (d) and (e) fall within the reliefs mentioned under Section 92(1). Hence, the

 plaint satisfies yet another ingredient required under Section 92 of the CPC. 28. In light of the aforesaid, it was submitted that the appellant Society though registered

 under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 yet must be construed as falling within

 the expression of a ‘constructive trust’ under Section 92 of the CPC as it holds

 property for charitable work. Therefore, the impugned decision granting leave to

 institute the suit, suffers from no infirmity and may not be interfered with.

iii. Submissions on behalf of the respondent nos. 3 and 4 29. The learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent nos. 3 and 4 respectively,

 submitted that the application seeking leave to institute the present suit has been filed

 in complete disregard of the mandatory conditions stipulated under Section 92 of the

 CPC. Section 92 requires a suit of this nature to be filed by at least two interested

 parties. While the respondent no. 2 (original plaintiff no. 2) has been included as one

 of the plaintiffs, it is pertinent to note that the plaint has not been signed by the

 respondent no. 2. Additionally, there is neither any verification on behalf of the

 respondent no. 2 nor an affidavit in support of the plaint, as required under Section

 26(2) of the CPC. These substantial procedural breaches render the plaint non-est in

 the eyes of law, and consequently, make it liable to be rejected at the very threshold.

 It was further submitted that there is a strong likelihood that the signatures of the

 respondent no. 2 was fraudulently affixed in the suit documents. Page No. 24 of 167 30. The counsel vehemently submitted that the suit under Section 92 of the CPC is

 legally untenable as it falls to fulfil the requisite conditions as regards maintainability

 and also for the reason that it is completely based on false allegations and has been

 filed to wreck a personal vendetta against the respondent nos. 3 and 4 respectively.

 Therefore, it was prayed that the present appeal be allowed and the impugned

 decision be set aside. D. ISSUES FOR DETERMINATION 31. Having heard the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the parties and having gone

 through the materials on record, the only question that falls for our consideration is

 whether in the facts and circumstances of the present case, the appellant Society

 registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 can be said to have fulfilled all

 the requirements stipulated under Section 92 of the CPC for the purpose of

 instituting a suit under the said provision? (1) In the case of any alleged breach of any express or constructive
 trust created for public purposes of a charitable or religious
 nature, or where the direction of the Court is deemed necessary Page No. 25 of 167 for the administration of any such trust, the Advocate-General, or
two or more persons having an interest in the trust and having
obtained the [leave of the Court,] may institute a suit, whether
contentious or not, in the principal Civil Court of original
jurisdiction or in any other Court empowered in that behalf by the
State Government within the local limits of whose jurisdiction the
whole or any part of the subject-matter of the trust is situate to
obtain a decree— (a) removing any trustee; (b) appointing a new trustee; I vesting any property in a trustee; [(cc) directing a trustee who has been removed or a person who
has ceased to be a trustee, to deliver possession of any trust
property in his possession to the person entitled to the possession
of such property;] (d) directing accounts and inquiries; I declaring what proportion of the trust property or of the interest
therein shall be allocated to any particular object of the trust; (f) authorising the whole or any part of the trust property to be let,
sold, mortgaged or exchanged; (g) settling a scheme; or (h) granting such further or other relief as the nature of the case
may require. (2) Save as provided by the Religious Endowments Act, 1863 (20
of 1863), [or by any corresponding law in force in [the territories
which, immediately before the 1st November, 1956, were
comprised in Part B States]], no suit claiming any of the reliefs
specified in sub-section (1) shall be instituted in respect of any
such trust as is therein referred to except in conformity with the
provisions of that sub-section. [(3) The Court may alter the original purposes of an express or
constructive trust created for public purposes of a charitable or
religious nature and allow the property or income of such trust or
any portion thereof to be applied cy pres in one or more of the
following circumstances, namely:— (a) where the original purposes of the trust, in whole or in part,— (i) have been, as far as may be, fulfilled; or Page No. 26 of 167 (ii) cannot be carried out at all, or cannot be carried out according
 to the directions given in the instrument creating the trust or,
 where there is no such instrument, according to the spirit of the
 trust; or (b) where the original purposes of the trust provide a use for a part
 only of the property available by virtue of the trust; or
 I where the property available by virtue of the trust and other
 property applicable for similar purposes can be more effectively
 used in conjunction with, and to that end can suitably be made
 applicable to any other purpose, regard being had to the spirit of
 the trust and its applicability to common purposes; or (d) where the original purposes, in whole or in part, were laid
 down by reference to an area which then was, but has since ceased
 to be, a unit for such purposes; or
 I where the original purposes, in whole or in part, have, since they
 were laid down,— (i) been adequately provided for by other means, or (ii) ceased, as being useless or harmful to the community, or (iii) ceased to be, in law, charitable, or (iv) ceased in any other way to provide a suitable and effective
 method of using the property available by virtue of the trust,
 regard being had to the spirit of the trust.]”
 (Emphasis supplied) 33. A suit under this provision can be termed as a ‘representative suit of a special

 nature’ since the object behind the enactment of this provision is the protection of

 public rights in the public trust. Therefore, the parties filing a suit by invoking this

 section are considered to be representatives of the public. 34. A three-judge bench of this Court in Ahman Adam Sait and Others v. M.E. Makhri

 and Others reported in 1963 SCC OnLine SC 71 had elaborated on how a suit under Page No. 27 of 167 Section 92 of the CPC is a ‘representative suit’ while deciding whether the second

suit would be barred by constructive res judicata. It was stated that when a suit is

brought under Section 92, by two or more persons interested in the trust, they could

be said to have taken upon themselves the responsibility of representing all the

beneficiaries in the trust and though, all the said beneficiaries may not be expressly

impleaded in the suit, the action is essentially instituted on their behalf and the relief

claimed is representative in character. While stating so, however, it was clarified that

the plaintiffs bringing the second suit must have the ‘same interest’ as that of the

plaintiffs or defendants of the earlier representative suit, for the principle of res

judicata to apply. In other words, it must be examined if the interest of the plaintiffs

in the second suit was represented in the earlier representative suit. The relevant

observations are thus: 35. Similarly, in Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee v. Mahant Harnam

 Singh reported in (2003) 11 SCC 377, this Court had opined that a suit under Section

 92 is of a special nature and for the protection of public rights in public trust and

 charities. It is for the vindication of public rights since the suit is instituted

 fundamentally on behalf of the entire body of persons who are interested in the trust.

 It cannot be said that only those persons whose names are in the suit-title would be

 considered to be the parties to the suit. The named plaintiffs are only the

 representatives of the public at large who are interested in the suit and therefore, in

 the eyes of law, all such interested persons would be considered to be parties to the

 suit. The relevant observations are reproduced hereinbelow: section (3) has also been inserted by the Amendment Act. The
 object of Section 92 CPC is to protect the public trust of a
 charitable and religious nature from being subjected to
 harassment by suits filed against them. Public trusts for charitable
 and religious purpose are run for the benefit of the public. No
 individual should take benefit from them. If the persons in
 management of the trusts are subjected to multiplicity of legal
 proceedings, funds which are to be used for charitable or religious
 purposes would be wasted on litigation. The harassment might
 dissuade respectable and honest people from becoming trustees of
 pubic trusts. Thus, there is need for scrutiny. -xxx- 25. In Sugra Bibi v. Hazi Kummu Mia [AIR 1943 Mad 466] it was
 held that the mere fact that the suit relates to public trust of
 religious or charitable nature and the reliefs claimed fall within
 some of the clauses of sub-section (1) of Section 92 would not by
 itself attract the operation of the section, unless the suit is of a
 representative character instituted in the interest of the public and
 not merely for vindication of the individual or personal rights of
 the plaintiffs. 26. To put it differently, it is not every suit claiming reliefs
 specified in Section 92 that can be brought under the section; but
 only the suits which besides claiming any of the reliefs are brought
 by individuals as representatives of the public for vindication of
 public rights. As a decisive factor the Court has to go beyond the
 relief and have regard to the capacity in which the plaintiff has
 sued and the purpose for which the suit was brought. The courts
 have to be careful to eliminate the possibility of a suit being laid
 against public trusts under Section 92 by persons whose activities
 were not for protection of the interests of the public trusts.[…]”

 (Emphasis supplied) Page No. 31 of 167 37. In Swami Shivshankargiri Chella Swami v. Satya Gyan Niketan , reported in (2017)

 4 SCC 771, while holding that a trust can be created by virtue of a conditional gift,

 this Court had also elaborated on the purpose behind requiring grant of leave from

 the court under Section 92 before a suit can be instituted. It was opined that such a

 condition has been legislatively prescribed in order to prevent a public trust from

 being harassed or to obviate the institution of reckless or frivolous suits against its

 trustees. The relevant observations are as thus: ii. Conditions to be fulfilled for the applicability of Section 92 of the CPC 39. Section 92 of the CPC has been created for a specific purpose and to address a

 specific kind of grievance which has the impact of affecting public rights as

 enumerated above. Therefore, not all suits can be blindly brought within the fold of

 this provision. In the facts and circumstances of each case, the court granting leave

 must examine whether the suit qualifies certain conditions which align with the

 intent behind the creation of this provision. Courts must tread with caution so as to

 weed out those suits which are camouflaged as falling within its ambit just with a

 view to take an undue benefit of provision and for causing harassment to the public

 trust or for the vindication of personal rights. 40. This Court in Ashok Kumar Gupta (supra) had laid down three conditions which

 are a sine qua non in order to invoke Section 92 of the CPC and maintain an action

 under the said provision. Upon placing reliance on various decisions of this Court,

 the conditions were delineated as follows – (a) the trust in question must be created

 for public purposes of a charitable or religious nature; (b) there must exist a breach

 of trust or a direction of the court must be necessary for the administration of the

 trust; and (c) the relief claimed must be one or other of the reliefs as enumerated

 under Section 92(1) of the CPC. The relevant observations are reproduced as thus: Consequently, if any of these three conditions is not satisfied, the
 matter would be outside the scope of said Section 92.”

 (Emphasis supplied) 41. As a natural corollary, it follows that in order to successfully establish that a suit

 is beyond the scope of Section 92 of the CPC, it would be sufficient to prove that

 any one of the conditions enumerated above has not been met. However, on the

 other hand, for a suit to be maintainable under this provision, the plaintiffs must

 be able to satisfy the court that all the conditions, or in other words, the necessary

 ingredients, under this section, have been fulfilled. Page No. 35 of 167 A. The trust being created for a public purpose of a charitable or religious
 nature. 42. A trust can be said to have been created for a ‘public purpose’ when the beneficiaries

 are the general public who are incapable of exact ascertainment. Even if the

 beneficiaries are not necessarily the public at large, they must at least be a classified

 section of it and not a pre-ascertained group of specific individuals. 43. What constitutes “charitable purpose” has been defined under Section 2 of the

 Charitable Endowments Act, 1890 as follows: 44. There remains no doubt that the appellant Society in the instant case, working

 towards bringing equity in public health, with particular focus on providing for the

 education, treatment and prevention of tuberculosis, has been created for a ‘public

 purpose of charitable nature’. This is clearly evident from its objectives outlined in

 the MoA and the beneficiaries that it seeks to serve, amongst others. The same is an Page No. 36 of 167 admitted position and we need not delve into the nitty-gritties of whether the

 appellant society qualifies this aspect of the aforesaid condition. What remains

 contested, however, is that the appellant society which has been registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 cannot be construed to be a ‘trust’ or a ‘constructive

 trust’ in order to subject it to the jurisdiction under Section 92 of the CPC.

I. Whether a Society can be construed to be a ‘trust or a ‘constructive

 trust’? 45. A suit under Section 92 of the CPC being one of special nature, presupposes the

 existence of a public trust of a religious or charitable character. The existence of a

 public trust is essential, whether express or constructive. Therefore, a crucial

 condition that needs satisfaction is whether the institution/organisation in relation

 to which certain reliefs are sought can in fact be considered to be a ‘trust’ or a

 ‘constructive trust’. Having said so, however, an express declaration clearly

 signifying that an entity is a trust or that the properties are trust properties would

 not be a sine qua non in order to render a suit under Section 92 maintainable.

 a. Circumstances under which the creation of a trust has been inferred 46. When no formal recognition has been given to the institution, the creation of a trust

 can be inferred from the relevant circumstances surrounding the coming into

 existence of and functioning of the institution/entity in question. The Privy Council

 in Babu Bhagwan Din and Ors. v. Gir Har Saroop and Ors. reported in 1939 SCC Page No. 37 of 167 OnLine PC 47 was concerned with the question whether a public trust of a religious

character existed in the facts and circumstances of the case. The decision also

established when a private temple may become dedicated to the public by subsequent

dealings. While negativing the contention that the private temple constituted a public

trust, emphasis was particularly laid on two aspects i.e., - First, the land in question

granted by the then Nawab of Oudh in 1781was not a grant to the idol or an

endowment of a temple or a gift made by way of trust for a public religious purpose.

Instead, it was a grant to a private individual and to his heirs in perpetuity. Therefore,

the historical setting and the circumstances of the grant was given importance to.

Secondly, While acknowledging that a private temple may become dedicated to the

public and morph into a public trust of a religious nature over the course of years, it

was held that such dedication has to be proved and the mere fact that the public were

never turned away and that offerings from them were accepted would not by itself

be sufficient proof of dedication, especially in the absence of an inference that the

public user exercised any ‘right’ pertaining to the temple or had acquired any

interest. Another pertinent factual aspect was also that the various forms of profit,

whether by offerings or rents received by letting out portions of the lands in their

own names, were divided amongst the family. The relevant observations are thus: 47. On the other hand, the Privy Council in Gurunatharudhaswami Guru

 Shidharudhaswami v. Bhimappa Gangadhrawappa Divate reported in 1948 SCC

 OnLine PC 43, the issue related to whether the Court under Section 92 could direct

 the removal of the head of the mutt while settling a scheme for the administration of

 public trust properties despite the fact that the previous swami desired the said

 person to succeed as the head of the mutt. The suit under Section 92, apart from the

 aforesaid relief, was also concerned with whether the institution in question could

 be called a ‘public trust’ of a religious or charitable nature. In deciding the aforesaid, Page No. 39 of 167 particular reference was made to the circumstances in which the various properties

used in connection with the institution was acquired. Predominantly, all the offerings

made and gifts given by the public to the Swami was for the purposes of the ‘Math’

and additional properties were purchased out of the offerings initially given, except

one property which was concluded as having been received as a gift by the Swami’s

for his own personal benefit since there was no evidence to show that the said

solitary land was ever used for the benefit of the ‘Math’. Therefore, all the suit

properties with the exception of one, were regarded as accretions to the original

foundation/institution, and subject to an express or constructive trust created for

public purposes of a charitable or religious nature within the meaning of Section 92 of the CPC. The relevant observations are reproduced hereinbelow: 48. This Court in Bihar State Board Religious Trust, Patna v. Mahant Sri Biseshwar

 Das reported in (1971) 1 SCC 574 had to determine whether the entity in question

 constituted a religious trust so that it may be brought within the purview of a ‘public

 trust’ under Section 2(1) of the Bihar Hindu Religious Trusts Act, 1951. The Trial

 Court had also placed a lot of importance on ascertaining how the properties were

 originally acquired and since, the respondent did not produce the Sanads under

 which the founding Mahant had acquired the said properties and therefore, the nature

 of the gifts and the manner in which they were made could not be determined, an

 adverse inference was drawn against the respondent. However, this conclusion was

 held to be misplaced since the onus of proof to show that the properties were being

 held for public purposes of a religious or charitable character was said to rest on the

 appellant Board who alleged that it was so. In holding thus, this Court also observed

 as follows: 49. The relevant observations in Bihar State Board (supra) are thus: -xxx- 21. Lastly, reference was made to some of the deeds of gifts made
by the reigning Mahants in favour of their nominees as successors
where the properties were described as appertaining to the Asthal.
Assuming that the scribes of these documents used the expression
“appertaining to the Asthal” in the sense in which such expression
is sometimes used in the deeds of conveyance, the expression
means things which are appurtenant to and forming part of the
principal property which is the subject-matter of the instrument.
[See Stroud's Judicial Dictionary, (3rd Edn.), Vol. I, 177.] The Page No. 44 of 167 expression “appertaining to the Asthal” in these deeds, therefore,
 would at best mean that the properties formed part of the Asthal
 and are not the properties of the Mahant as distinct from those of
 the Asthal. (See Sri Thakurji Ramji v. Mathura Prasad [AIR 1941
 Pat 354 at 358] .) But unless the Asthal itself is a public trust for
 religious or charitable purposes, the properties appertaining
 thereto would not be properties of a public trust for religious or
 charitable purposes. The use of the expression “appertaining to
 the Asthal”, therefore, cannot lead to the conclusion that the
 properties in question were stamped with a trust for public
 purposes.”
 (Emphasis supplied) 50. In another decision of this Court in Kuldip Chand and Another v. Advocate-General

 to Government of H.P. and Others reported in (2003) 5 SCC 46, it was held that

 the history of the institution, conduct of the parties and the user of the properties are

 all factors to be examined to arrive to a determination as regards a public trust. The

 issue related to whether by the mere use of the premises as a Dharamsala for about

 125 years an inference could be drawn that the same belongs to a public trust.

 Answering in the negative and holding that the Dharamsala was a private property

 and not a public trust, this Court observed that a dedication for public purposes and

 for the benefit of the general public would involve the complete cessation of

 ownership on the part of the founder and vesting of the property for the religious

 object. However, in circumstances where this dedication is not made via a formal or

 express endowment, its character may have to be determined on the basis of the

 history of the institution along with the conduct of the founder and his heirs. A

 dedication would involve the complete relinquishment of individual right of

 ownership. The owner must intend to divest himself of his ownership in the

 dedicated property. The relevant observations are reproduced hereinbelow: Page No. 45 of 167 How such trust was administered by Raj Kumar Bir Singh and
 upon his death by his successors-in-interest has not been
 disclosed. It appears that the family of the donor retained the
 control over the property and, therefore, a complete dedication
 cannot be inferred far less presumed. Furthermore, a trust which
 has been created may be a private trust or a public trust. The
 provisions of Section 92 of the Code of Civil Procedure would be
 attracted only when a public trust comes into being and not
 otherwise. -xxx- 42. When a dedication to a charity is sought to be established in
 absence of an instrument or grant, the law requires that such
 dedication be established by cogent and satisfactory evidence of
 conduct of the parties and user of the property which show the
 extinction of the private secular character of the property and its
 complete dedication to charity. It must be proved that the donor
 intended to divest himself of his ownership in the dedicated
 property. The meaning of charitable purpose may depend upon the
 statute defining the same.”. (Emphasis supplied) 51. In Kuldip Chand (supra), of the several factual circumstances that led this Court to

 reach the conclusion that the Dharamsala was not a public trust in addition to the

 owner’s intention to not relinquish ownership of the property, some are especially

 pertinent – (a) in the premises of the Dharamsala, some portion was let out as shops

 to other people, unconnected with the religious or charitable purpose; (b) the

 income/rent received from those shops were not used to further the purpose of the Page No. 47 of 167 alleged trust but was being used by the owners for their own purpose; (c) the

 maintenance of the Dharamsala was also being done from the personal funds of the

 owner and no contribution was made by the public for the maintenance of the

 Dharamsala. All these facts were taken into account in arriving at the decision that

 the Dharamsala was not a public trust. 52. On a conspectus of the aforesaid decisions, it could be said that the method of

 devolution of the property to the institution or its acquisition, the intention behind

 the grant of property i.e. whether it was for the benefit of the organization or for the

 personal benefit of any particular individual/family – in other words, the historical

 setting and the circumstances of the grant has been given considerable significance

 while concluding whether a trust of a public charitable or religious nature exists.

 Even if the grant was initially of a private nature, any subsequent dealings could

 transform the organization into a public trust, however, such a ‘dedication’ to the

 public must be sufficiently proved. That the public user or an unascertained class of

 individuals could exercise any ‘right’ over the organization and its properties, could

 also be a significant factor in concluding that a public trust has come into existence.

 The manner of use of the profits accrued, more particularly, whether it was applied

 towards the benefit of the organization or its objectives, could also lead to an

 inference as regards the nature of the organization or the creation of a public trust. 53. Bihar State Board (supra) has reiterated that a charitable trust may either be created

 by a grant for an express purpose or a grant having been made in favour of an Page No. 48 of 167 individual(s), who might thereafter create a charitable trust. Due attention must also

 be paid to whether the grant is accompanied with any fetter/obligation or qualified

 with a condition, either express or implied, regarding its use by the grantee.

 Therefore, the trifecta i.e., the intention, manner and conditions of the grant might

 have to be scrutinized to see whether the grant was for the benefit of the public or

 an unascertained section of the public. The intention to create a trust must be

 indicated, either by words or acts with reasonable certainty. Other established

 circumstances, including the method of use of the property and customs of the

 institution or the mode and manner in which they have dealt with the properties in

 the past, could also prove to be relevant. 54. Kuldip Chand (supra) had also placed emphasis on the history of the

 institution/organization, the conduct of the parties and the beneficiaries of the

 properties as relevant factors. Whether the ‘dedication’ was complete i.e., whether

 there was an absolute cessation or complete relinquishment of ownership of the

 property on the part of the grantor and a subsequent vesting of the property for the

 said object, was also considered a key factor in determining if the dedication was for

 public purposes. Furthermore, how the properties are managed, more specifically,

 for whose benefit they are being managed; whether the profits are being re-routed to

 the public and for their benefit; whether any personal funds of any founder/proprietor

 are being applied for the running of the organization or is it maintained through funds

 sourced from the public, are also aspects that one might need to paid due attention

 to. Therefore, the overarching and fundamental purpose of the organization, the Page No. 49 of 167 mode in which properties are acquired and its beneficiaries could color it with the

 characteristics of a trust. 55. However, it must be noted that the aforementioned characteristics bear high

 significance, when, as mentioned previously, there has been no formal recognition

 of the entity in question and it has not been given a legal identity otherwise. Now,

 the next question would be, how an entity which satisfies the aforementioned criteria

 but has been, much later in time, registered as a society under the Societies

 Registration Act, 1860 , would be treated in the eyes of law. The answer to this lies

 in the decision given by the Full Bench of the Kerala High Court in Kesava Panicker

 v. Damodara Panicker and others reported in 1974 SCC OnLine Ker 58. 56. In Kesava Panicker (supra), the Full Bench had to decide, on the face of it, a

 strikingly similar question i.e., whether a society registered under the Societies

 Registration Act, 1860 could be considered to be a trust or a constructive trust for

 the purposes of Section 92 of the CPC. However, the facts revealed that a public

 trust was formed much before the society was registered. It is in such circumstances

 that the Court arrived at the conclusion that the subject school, its properties and

 monies formed a public trust of a charitable nature and that the suit under Section

 92 was maintainable. The High Court elaborated as follows: Even if the purpose for which the society was formed was
charitable purpose the property acquired for this purpose will
belong to the society and there is no trust and no trust can be
predicated. So it was urged that even if the properties were
acquired by the Keralasseri High School Society there was no trust Page No. 52 of 167 which would enable a suit being instituted in accordance with the
provisions of Section 92 of the CPC. If we may say so, with great
respect, the position stated in the decision is the correct one. That
was stated with reference to the facts of that case and the
conclusion arrived at after discussing the facts is seen from
paragraph 21 of the judgment which we shall extract. “21. On the evidence, therefore, there cannot be the
 slightest doubt that the construction of this building was
 purely and exclusively an activity and concern of the
 registered society called the Devanga Sangha. It was not
 and cannot be described as a matter in which the entire
 Devanga Community as Community took any interest or
 any steps in such a way as to make it possible to suggest
 that a specified item of property was dedicated by it, or
 some members thereof, to public purpose, viz. some welfare
 of the community at large.” 8. On the other hand the facts of this case show that the entire
community in the area took an active interest and contributed
funds for the purpose of creating a “trust fund” in order that a
school may be established. Though it was what was called the
“Keralasseri Food Committee” that first made a move for the
establishment of a High School by submitting Ext. A9
memorandum to the Chief Minister, Madras, the public took up the
matter and there was a meeting of the public on the 1st February,
1947 and at that conference a resolution was passed to start a
private school. A committee was formed for collecting funds either
as donations or as share capital. Ext. A14 is the proceedings of
that meeting embodying the decisions taken at the meeting. These
proceedings clearly indicate that the intention was to create a trust
fund. It is so specifically stated in Ext. A14. We shall extract the
relevant part. (Text in Malayalam Language.) 9. Long before the registration of the society funds were collected
from the public towards share money is evidenced by Exts. A3, A4,
A24 and B26 receipts. There have been contributions as well, has
been established and this aspect has been discussed in the
judgment of the court below. It is thus clear that there has been a
clear intention to form a trust and that a trust fund was created
and that the fund was utilised for the construction of the school
building and for the ancillary purposes for establishing and
maintaining the work of the school. Page No. 53 of 167 “A trust may be created by any language sufficient to show
 the intention, and no technical words are necessary. The
 use of such words as ‘intent’ or ‘purpose’ or a direction that
 a fund shall be applied by, or be at the disposal of, a person
 for the charitable purposes intended, may be as effectual as
 the use of the word ‘trust’. Even the words ‘authorise and
 empower’ may be enough, upon the true construction of the
 instrument”. (See Tudor on Charities, Sixth Edition, Page 128). 10. No corporation would be created within the meaning of the
 word “incorporated” occurring in Entry 44 of List 1 of the Seventh
 Schedule to the Constitution by the formation and registration of
 a society under the Societies Registration Act . The society would
 continue to remain as an unincorporated society though under the Societies Registration Act it would have certain privileges some of
 them being analogous to those of corporations. See Board of
 Trustees, Ayurvedic and Unani College, Delhi v. State of Delhi ,
 AIR 1962 SC 458. If there was a trust created by the public for a
 public charitable purpose namely establishing, maintaining and
 running a school the fact of the registration of a society could not
 change the character of the properties which had already been
 constituted as trust properties and impressed with the trust and
 any addition to those properties must also have the same
 character. 11. We have therefore no hesitation in reaching the conclusion
 that a trust has been created and the High School buildings, the
 land, all appurtenances, furniture, equipment and all other
 properties are trust properties. -xxx- 13. The suit is maintainable. By virtue of the registration of the
 society the nature of the trust properties has not been changed and
 on the allegations and the findings, a suit for the reliefs asked for
 is competent. We dismiss this appeal with costs.”
 (Emphasis supplied) 58. As indicated above, a crucial factual aspect in Kesava Panicker (supra), was that

 the public trust was already created by the public and that it pre-existed the

 registration of the society. It was in such circumstances that it was held that a

 ‘subsequent’ registration of the same entity as a society under the Societies Page No. 54 of 167 Registration Act, 1860 would not take away from its character as a public trust and

 affect the maintainability of a suit under Section 92 of the CPC. A trust was already

 created by the public for a public charitable purpose and the properties were already

 imbued with the character of trust properties and impressed with the trust. The mere

 registration as a society to alter or circumvent the status of things which was already

 present, was what was disallowed. However, whether this factual peculiarity has a

 bearing on the facts of the present matter remains to be seen.

 b. Views of different High Courts on the issue 59. Over the period of time, several decisions of different High Courts have been faced

 with the same question which remains at the centre of the present litigation i.e.,

 whether a society can be considered to be a public trust for the purposes of Section

 92 of the CPC. The High Court of Mysore in C. Chikka Venkatappa & Another v.

 D. Hanumanthappa & Others reported in 1970 SCC OnLine Kar 16 was

 concerned with a suit filed under Section 92 in relation to ‘Devanga Sangha’, a

 society registered under the Mysore Societies Registration Act of 1904 whose object

 was to advance the educational, economic and social welfare of the members of the

 Devanga community who are a section of Hindus. The plaintiffs prayed that the

 defendants be removed from the office they held in the Devanga Sangha and that

 they also be directed to render true and proper accounts as regards the collections

 made by them on behalf of the Sangha in connection with the Silver Jubilee Building Page No. 55 of 167 Fund of the Sangha. The suit was decreed and while the first prayer was not granted,

 the second prayer was granted only against two out of the five defendants. The High

 Court while holding that the suit was entirely misconceived on law and also wholly

 unnecessary on facts, observed as follows: That does not amount to nor can it be, by any stretch of
imagination, read as amounting to any declaration of trust in
respect of a specified property. 19. Such being the clear position in law in regard to trusts and in
regard to registered societies and the clear difference between the
two, the prima facie opinion in this case should necessarily be that
unless some special circumstances are made out, it is not possible
to start with an assumption that there is a trust created for public
purposes, in regard to which the provisions of S. 92 CPC. could
be invoked. Page No. 59 of 167 -xxx- 25. On the evidence, therefore, there cannot be the slightest doubt
that the construction of this building was purely and exclusively
an activity and concern of the registered society called the
Devanga Sangha. It was not and cannot be described as a matter
in which the entire Devanga community as community took any
interest or any steps in such a way as to make it possible to suggest
that a specified item of property, was dedicated by it, or some
members thereof, to public purpose, viz., some welfare of the
community at large. 26. […] All that happens is that the registered society acquires a
certain item of property which, under the law, must be deemed to
vest in the governing body unless they take steps to vest it
separately in trustees. There is no suggestion here of any such
separate vesting. Hence effect should be given to the normal
provisions of law which vest the property in the Executive Council. -xxx- 29. The other four-decisions are relied upon to make out one
general proposition, namely, that for the purpose of applying the
provisions of S. 92 CPC., it is not obligatory that the trustees
should be individual human beings, but may be statutory
committees or statutory bodies including incorporated bodies.
In T. Sitharama Chetty's case [ILR. 39 Mad. 700.] , it was held
that an Area Committee appointed under one of the provisions of
the Madras Endowments Act, which was in management of a
certain temple, may clearly be regarded as a trust for the purpose
of S. 92 CPC. In Commissioner, Lucknow Division 's case [AIR.
1937 PC. 240.] , there was an unincorporated informal committee
of persons who collected subscriptions for a specific purpose. In Gomathinayagam's case [AIR. 1963 Mad. 387.] , the founder of
a certain school who had endowed properties for purposes of the
school transferred those properties on trust to a Committee of
persons who got themselves incorporated into a company without
any motive of profits under S. 26 of the Indians Companies Act of
1913 (corresponding to S. 25 of the 1956 Act). In all these cares,
it was held that the fact that the trusteeship vested in a Committee
of persons, whether incorporated or not, made no difference to
treating them as trustees for the purpose of S. 92 CPC. But that
does not carry the plaintiffs' case any further in this case. In every
one of these decided cases, there was a clear creation of a trust
for public purposes within the meaning of S. 92 CPC. as explained Page No. 60 of 167 by us. In every case, there was already either a temple with
endowed properties managed by the Area Committee or an actual
transfer of property on trust by the founder of the school in favour
of the Committee or the collection of funds by an informal
committee for a specified public purpose amounting in law to a
declaration of trust by themselves. 30. But one case which comes very near the present case is that
in P. Mahadevayya's case [53 Mys H.C.R. 167] . That was a case
of a registered society formed for the educational advancement of
the Veerasaiva community which became the victim of serious
differences of opinion between its members resulting in a split
threatening to put an end to the useful activities of the society. A
suit was filed with the consent of the Deputy Commissioner of the
relevant district under S. 92 CPC. for the framing of a scheme. The
bulk of the reported judgment discusses the facts and there is no
discussion of the legal principles adverted to by us above. The
Court seems to proceed upon the assumption that the case was one
to which S. 92 , CPC. could be rightly applied. There is reference
made to the case reported in T. Sitharama Chetty's case [ILR. 39
Mad. 700.] at page 175 of the Mysore High Court Reports. The
contention disposed of by reference to the said decision was that
according to one of the rules governing the society, no changes in
the rules can be made without the consent of ¾th of the members
of the general committee and that as the rules themselves provided
a proper procedure, it was not competent for the Court to interfere
and frame a scheme. This is what the Court has stated in rejecting
that contention: 31. It will be seen that the analogy sought to be drawn between the
case in Sitarama Chetty 's case [ILR. 39 Mad. 700.] and the case Page No. 61 of 167 before the erstwhile High Court of Mysore may not have been
 possible if the great distinction that existed between a temple
 governed by an Area Committee under the Madras Endowments
 Act and a society registered under the Societies Registration Act had been brought to the notice of the Court. The Area Committee
 referred to in Sitharama Chetty 's case [ILR. 39 Mad. 700.] is
 certainly not the same as the governing body of a society
 registered under the Societies Registration Act . 32. As the ruling relied upon did not discuss the principle of law
 ??? before us we do not consider it to be a clear authority in
 support of the proposition sought to be made by Mr. Nagaraja Rao
 on behalf of the plaintiffs. If the decision should be regarded as
 laying down by implication, that even in the case of an ordinary
 society registered under the Societies Registration Act , a matter
 exclusively and completely governed by the provisions of the said
 Act and the general law, can be brought within the scope of S. 92 CPC. as if the position is clearly one of creation of a trust for
 public purposes, with respect, we find ourselves unable to agree
 with it.”
 (Emphasis supplied) 61. On the other hand, the High Court of Bombay in Shri Dnyaneshwar Madhuradwait

 Sampradayik Mandal, Amravati v. Charity Commissioner, Bombay and another

 reported in 1980 SCC OnLine Bom 120 while dealing with Section 2(13) of the

 Bombay Public Trusts Act, 1950 observed that a society registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 having an object which is religious or charitable or

 both, would be covered by the definition of a ‘public trust’ under Section 2(13) .

 However, the said observation was made since the aforesaid State legislation which

 governed public trusts explicitly included societies functioning for a public purpose

 of a religious or charitable nature within the definition of a ‘public trust’. The

 relevant observations are thus: 62. In Board of Governors St. Thomas School and Others v. A.K. George and another reported in 1984 SCC OnLine Cal 56 leave to institute a suit under Section 92 of

 the CPC pertaining to St. Thomas School, a statutory body constituted under the St.

 Thomas School Act, 1923 was sought on the allegation that the Board of Governors

 were not properly constituted and that the trust property was not being properly

 managed by the trustees i.e., the Board of Governors of the said school. Leave was

 granted ex-parte on the ground that the school constituted a public charitable trust.

 While holding that the school was not a public charitable trust, the High Court of

 Calcutta observed that the fact that a provision under the St. Thomas School Act,

 1923 provided that all the property vested in the Governors by itself was not

 sufficient to lead to the conclusion that they were held in trust or that a charitable

 trust of a public nature was created. The relevant observations are thus: 63. In The Advocate General v. Bhartiya Adam Jati Sewak Sangh and Ors reported in

 MANU/HP/0182/2001, the High Court of Himachal Pradesh held that even if the

 defendant no. 1 and 2 societies respectively were performing charitable functions,

 the same by itself would not attract the provisions of Section 92 of the CPC since

 there was no evidence that any trust was expressly or impliedly created. In the said

 case also the societies functioning for a charitable aim, i.e., the social and economic

 upliftment of the weaker section of the society and money was being raised from

 various sources, including the public at large as well as in the form of grants-in-aid

 from the government. Further, the High Court interpreted Section 5 of the Societies

 Registration Act, 1860 to mean that if the properties were already vested in trustees,

 only then it shall not be deemed to be vested in the governing body of the society. Page No. 64 of 167 In other words, the subsequent registration of a trust as a society would not have the

effect of altering the properties belonging to the trust and the trustees would continue

to be the legal owners of such properties. It adopted the interpretation given in Kesava Panicker (supra). In this context, it was held that there was no evidence to

show that any funds were collected from the general public before the defendant nos.

1 and 2 societies respectively came to be registered as societies and therefore, no

trust as such could be said to have been existed. Hence, all the monies received or

collected by them would vest in the governing body of the society only. Therefore,

there being no trust and the defendant nos. 1 and 2 respectively admittedly being

societies, the suit under Section 92 was not maintainable. The relevant observations

are reproduced hereinbelow: -xxx- Page No. 65 of 167 21. In the present case, there are neither pleadings nor evidence
 to show that any funds were collected from the general public
 before the Defendants No. 1 and 2 came to be registered as
 Societies under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 . Therefore
 there was no trust as such and vide Section 20 of the Societies
 Registration Act, 1860, all moneys received by the Defendants No.
 1 and 2 either by way of grants-in-aid or in the form of
 contributions from the public would vest in the societies, that is,
 Defendants No. 1 and 2. -xxx- 24. In the present case, the very first condition is lacking. As stated
 above, it is the admitted case of the Plaintiff that Defendants No.
 1 and 2 are "societies" registered under the Societies Registration
 Act, 1860 . There is no averment and/or evidence that any trust was
 expressly or impliedly created. Even if Defendants No. 1 and 2 are
 carrying on charitable purpose, the same by itself would not
 attract the provisions of Section 92 , Code of Civil Procedure. 25. On the facts and circumstances of the case neither the
 Defendants No. 1 and 2 are public trusts nor the Defendants No.
 3 to 7 are the trustees. The issue is decided against the Plaintiff.”

 (Emphasis supplied) 64. In Abhaya (supra), the Kerala High Court also refused to accept the contention that

 a society can be considered to be a public trust for the purposes of Section 92 of the

 CPC. The organisation therein was registered under the Travancore-Cochin Literary,

 Scientific, and Charitable Societies Registration Act, 1955 and was constituted with

 the objectives of serving the mentally-ill, improving the social and non-social

 environment of the mental hospitals in Kerala, provision of facilities to improve the

 life-conditions of the mentally-ill, and rehabilitation of the recovered patients,

 especially those patients who have no familial support. The required capital of the

 society was also raised by membership/subscription fees, donations, loans, grants Page No. 66 of 167 and other voluntary contributions, including from the public. Allegations of

 mismanagement, misconduct and misappropriation were levelled against the

 defendants. While dismissing the original petition, it was held as follows: iv. Lastly, while acknowledging that it is the allegation in the plaint that determines

 the jurisdiction of the court under Section 92 of the CPC and that if a breach of

 trust is ‘alleged’, the grant of leave may be given, it was cautioned that when the

 very existence of a trust of any kind is seriously disputed/denied, the court must

 prima facie satisfy itself of the existence of the trust. It is true that if the

 contention is that there is no public trust but only a private one, a decision on

 whether the trust is of a public or private nature can only be made after taking in

 evidence. However, the same principle would not apply when the issue is that a

 trust by itself is absent in the circumstances. There must be some material to

 convince the court that a trust has been created. 65. The relevant observations made in Abhaya (supra) are reproduced hereinbelow: Page No. 68 of 167 The area of activity of the Society is limited to State of Kerala.
Clause 4 of the Rules and Regulations of the Memorandum of
Association deals with the main objectives of the Society, which
reads as follows:— 4. The main objectives of the Society shall be the service of
 the mentally ill, alcoholics and drug addicts, women in
 distress and children and other groups in distress. The
 society shall aim at— (a) Improving the social and non-social environment of the
 mental hospitals of Kerala. (b) Providing the mentally ill with facilities to improve their
 life conditions. (c) Rehabilitating the recovered patients, especially those
 who are unwanted by their families.”

[…] Clause 10 deals with the capital of the society, which reads
as follows:—
 “10. The required capital of the society shall be raised by
 the membership and subscription fees and donations, loans,
 grants and other voluntary contributions from the public
 State and Central Governments and other institutions or
 organisations.”
[…] 8. It is true that Clause 4 of the Rules and Regulations shows that
the Society is constituted with the main objectives of rendering
service of the mentally ill, alcoholics and drug addicts, women in Page No. 69 of 167 distress and children and other groups in distress. But, there is
absolutely nothing in the Rules and Regulations of Memorandum
of Association to show that prior to the formation and registration,
of the society there was a trust haying any property. On the other
hand, a reading of the memorandum of Association shows that
there were 7 promotees and they convened a General Body
meeting on 5-1-1986. The General Body held on 5-1-1986 decided
to register the 1st petitioner as a Society under Act XII of 1955.
Clause 10 shows that on the date of formation of the Society there
was no property over which the Society had any ownership. A
formation of a Society under the provisions of Act XII of 1955 to
carry out any charitable or social purpose will not make the
Society a public Trust. The Society is empowered to acquire
property also to use for its purposes. But, that property which is to
be Acquired will only be the property of the Society and it will not
be a property in respect of which it is possible to predicate a trust.
The preamble of the Act XII of 1955 is relevant. It states as
follows:—
 “Whereas it is expedient that provision should be made for
 improving the legal condition of Societies, established for
 the promotion of literature, science, or the fine arts, or for
 the diffusion of useful knowledge or for charitable
 purposes.” Section 3 of the Act provides that any seven or more persons
associated for any charitable purpose may by subscribing their
names to a memorandum of association and filing the same with
the Registrar, form themselves into a society. Section 32 of the Act
provides that the following Societies may be registered under the
Act: section (2) of Section 25 provides that the plaintiff has to deposit
Rs. 100/- as security for costs. 9. A reading of the various Sections of Act XII of 1955 shows that
even if the object of a society formed under the provisions of Act
XII of 1955 is a charitable purpose and even if it acquires property
and use the same for achieving the object of the society, the
property is owned by the Society and it belongs to it. The property
is that of the society which is a legal person by virtue of the
provisions of the statute. It cannot be said that whenever a society
acquires property, it declares itself as a trustee in respect of that Page No. 71 of 167 property. The Society has a legal obligation to use the property for
purposes of the society acquired strictly in accordance with the
provisions contained in the Rules and Regulations of
Memorandum of Association. By no stretch of imagination it can
be considered as a declaration of trust in respect of a property
acquired by the Society. -xxx- 11. The preamble of the Indian Trusts Act, 182, states that it was
enacted to define and amend the law relating to private trusts and
trustees. Section 3 of the Indian Trusts Act defines “trust”. It reads
as follows:—
 “A “Trust” is an obligation annexed to the ownership of
 property, and arising out of a confidence reposed in and
 accepted by the owner, or declared and accepted by him,
 for the benefit of another, or of another and the owner.”
To constitute a trust, there must be an author of the trust, trustees,
beneficiary, trust property and beneficial interest. The concept of
trust involves four ingredients; a settlor or donor, a trustee or
trustees, the beneficiaries and the subject matter. Of course, the
beneficiaries may be a specified group or general public. Trust
may be either express or constructive. But, a trust is created only
when the author of the trust indicates with reasonable certainty by
words or act the intention in his part to create a trust, beneficiary
and the trust property. The subject matter of a trust must be a
property transferable to the beneficiary. It must not be merely a
beneficial interest. 12. In Kesava Panicker v. Damodara Panicker 1975 Ker LT 797: 13. […] A reading of various averments in the Original Petition
shows that though the word “Trust” is used to describe the 1st
petitioner, there is no averments in the pleadings to show the
existence of a Trust, whether Public or Private. On the other hand, Page No. 72 of 167 the materials on record clearly shows that the 1st petitioner is a
Society registered under Act XII of 1955. 14. A comparison of Section 25 of the Act XII of 1955 and Section
92 of C.P. Code shows that the reliefs provided under Section 25 of the Act and under Section 92 of the C.P. Code are similar. The
suit under Section 25 of the Act is also to be filed before the
District Court. The main difference is that to file a suit under Section 25 of the Act a minimum 10% of the members of the Society
must join together as plaintiffs. But they need not obtain any
permission as contemplated under Section 92 of the C.P. Code.
The minimum number of 10% of the members is insisted to see that
the Society is not unnecessarily dragged to court of law. The
member of the Society cannot be allowed to circumvent that
provision by making an allegation that the Society is a Trust. 15. The learned counsel appearing for the contesting respondents
has argued that when there are averments in the petition regarding
the existence of a trust, the Court is bound to grant the permission
sought for and the Court cannot consider whether the allegation
regarding the existence of trust is true or not. It is argued that is a
matter to be decided after taking evidence. 16. It is true that it is the allegation in the plaint that determines
the jurisdiction of the Court under Section 92 of C.P. Code. If a
breach of trust is alleged in the plaint, it is sufficient to confer
jurisdiction to the Court. But, when the very existence of a trust of
any kind is denied, the court must look into the pleadings and the
documents produced by the plaintiffs to see whether there is any
material to show a prima facie case of existence of the trust. Of
course, if the contention is that there is no public trust but only a
private trust, a decision as to whether the trust is public or private
can be taken only after taking evidence. 17. The learned counsel for the respondents 1 to 6 has argued that
if there are averments in the original Petition to the effect that the
O.P. relates to a trust the District Court shall not reject the O.P.
on the ground that there is no trust. It is argued that the Apex Court
has held that it is not even necessary to hear the respondent before
granting leave. It is true that in B.S. Adityan v. B. Ramachandran
Adityan 2004 AIR SCW 3044: (AIR 2004 SC 3448), the Apex Court
has held that leave can be granted without issuing notice to the
respondent. But in the very same decision it was also held that the
respondent after appearing in the suit, can file petition to revoke
the leave already granted. So, there is no merit in the contention Page No. 73 of 167 of the contesting respondent that if there are averments in the
 petition regarding the existence of trust, the District Court shall
 entertain the application and grant leave. 18. The learned counsel appearing for respondents 1 to 6 has
 argued that the scope of enquiry in an Original Petition is very
 limited and the District Court has merely to see whether there is
 prima facie case for granting the relief. […] It is true that the
 plaintiff need only establish a prima facie case of existence of a
 trust. But, there must be materials to make a prima facie case of
 existence of a trust. There is total lack of any such materials in this
 case. -xxx- 21. The learned District Judge allowed the Original Petition on a
 wrong assumption that the 1st petitioner Society is a Trust. There
 is absolutely no material to show prima facie that 1st petitioner is
 a Trust, either public or private. There is also no material to show
 that there was a Trust of public nature, which subsequently got
 registered under the provisions of Act XII of 1955. Since there is
 no material to make out a prima facie case that the 1st petitioner
 is a public Trust and any person had settled any properties for the
 benefit of the beneficiaries, the provisions of Section 92 of C.P.C.
 cannot be invoked. So, the impugned order is illegal,
 unsustainable and liable to be set aside.”

 (Emphasis supplied) 66. While dealing with the same issue, the Madras High Court also in Periyar Self

 Respect Propaganda Institution (supra), took the view that the properties in

 question vested with a society and not a trust, thereby rendering the suit under

 Section 92 not maintainable. Therein, the fact that the institution was registered

 under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 and that the properties were vested in the

 President and Secretary of the institution who were empowered to purchase and sell

 properties on behalf of the institution, were, in the opinion of the High Court, factors Page No. 74 of 167 which indicated that a trust neither existed nor was created. The relevant

observations are as thus: -xxx- 14. In this case also the property vest with the President and
 Secretary of the first defendant as per clause 23 of the
 Memorandum of Articles of Association of the first defendant
 Institution, which was registered under the Societies Registration
 Act 21/1860. Therefore, the property is vested with a society and
 not with a Trust and as per the observations made in the above
 cited case a suit under Section 92 , CPC is not maintainable, (to)
 which Societies Registration Act is applicable, proceeding with a
 suit under Section 92 , CPC was deprecated in Babaji Kondaji
 Garad v. Nasik Merchants Co-operative Bank Ltd., Nasik ((1984)
 2 SCC 50 : AIR 1984 SC 192). There is also no interestedness
 shown upon the plaintiffs in the running of the Trust.”
 (Emphasis supplied) Page No. 75 of 167 67. In S.R. Bahuguna (supra), the Delhi High Court had held that the suit under Section

 92 was not maintainable for not having satisfied two crucial ingredients i.e., the

 defendant no. 1 was a society and not a public charitable trust, and the plaintiffs were

 also not ‘persons interested’ in the trust. Therein, for the purpose of constructing a

 building on a plot of land belonging to defendant society and develop it, a board of

 five trustees was set up by the standing committee of the defendant society through

 a registered trust deed dated 01.09.1975 where the President of the defendant society

 was the Managing Trustee. However, the trust was revoked almost two years later

 since the construction was complete and the purposes for which it had been set up

 was fulfilled. In this context, the Delhi High Court emphasized that Section 5 of the

 Societies Registration Act, 1860 cannot be construed to mean that the governing

 body members of the society would automatically become trustees if no trust is

 created to manage the assets of the society. The relevant observations are as follows: -xxx- 16. In view of the above discussion, the Court is of opinion that the
 suit is not maintainable, because two crucial ingredients, which
 are essential pre-requisites for action under Section 92 are
 lacking; the first, defendant is a society, and not a public
 charitable Trust. The Trust which had been set up earlier was
 dissolved in 1997; that has not been disputed. The suit was filed in
 2001. Section 5 of the Societies Registration Act 1860, says that
 the property and assets of a registered society vest either in a trust,
 set up for that purpose, or the society's governing council or body.
 This however, does not mean that the governing body members if
 no trust is created to manage the society's assets, become trustees.
 No authority was shown to advance such an argument. The second
 ingredient, i.e. the plaintiffs being 'persons interested' is also
 lacking, in this case. 17. For the above reasons, the plaintiffs cannot be granted leave
 to file a suit, under Section 92 of the CPC. The suit and all pending
 applications are, therefore, dismissed without any order on costs.”
 (Emphasis supplied) 68. In Young Mens Christian Association of Ernakulam (supra), the plaintiffs alleged

 before the Delhi High Court that the defendant society owned a large number of

 movable and immovable properties across India and held in trust, various properties

 of its member associations. The High Court accepted such a contention and leave to

 institute a suit under Section 92 was granted by delineating the following: 69. The relevant observations are reproduced as follows: In respect of properties mentioned in section (1) and [2] above, all
sales or disposals are to be approved by the National Board.”

 (Emphasis in original) -xxx- 18. Considering the nature and constitution of the Defendant, the
question is whether it comes under the purview of the Section 92 of
the CPC, it being a Registered Society under the Societies
Registration Act . 19. Section 3 of the Indian Trusts Act reads as under: 20. From a perusal of the above definition, it is clear that the
elements that are required to be fulfilled for an express or
constructive trust are: 21. If these elements are satisfied, a trust is created. 22. In this backdrop, a perusal of Section 92 of the CPC reveals
that the term “express or constructive trust” does not relate to a
trust constituted under the Indian Trusts Act , but any body or entity
which holds in trust any property and is created for public
purposes of a charitable or religious nature. A society can also
satisfy the test of express or constructive trust created for public
purposes. 23. In Abhaya (supra) cited by the Defendant, the case involved a
charitable Society which did not show that it held ‘in trust’ any Page No. 80 of 167 property belonging to a different organisation. The property
 vested in the governing body of the Society itself. Thus, the Kerala
 High Court held that a suit under Section 92 of the CPC would not
 be maintainable. […] 24. Thus, in the facts of the said case, the Court held that there
 was no prima facie material to show existence of a trust. 25. Even in Rukmini Devi Arundale (supra), the Court held that
 the question was as to whether the property belonged to the Trust
 or the Society. In Bhartiya Adam Jati Sewak Sangh (supra), the
 High Court of Himachal Pradesh held that there was no evidence
 to show that any funds were collected from the general public
 before the Society was created. […] 26. In the present case, as per Clause 3(ii) of the Preamble of the
 Memorandum, one of the main objectives of the Defendant was to
 promote the work of the Young Men's Christian Association
 Movement in India and to resuscitate the existing languishing
 YMCAs and aid in formation of new YMCAs in India. In effect, the
 Defendant started administering and looking after the existing
 YMCAs which were formed even before it came into existence as
 a Society. Paragraph 14 of the Plaint clearly sets out the past
 YMCA movement which dates back to 1857, the fore-runner of the
 Defendant being formed in 1891 and thereafter the registration of
 the Defendant as a Society only in 1964. All these organisations
 came under the administration and supervision of the Defendant.
 As per the Rules and Regulations set out hereinabove, the
 Defendant holds in trust, properties on behalf of the member
 YMCAs. The immovable properties are located across the country.
 Thus, there is no doubt that the Defendant is in both ‘express’ and
 ‘constructive’ trust of the properties belonging to its members. In
 fact, as pointed out by counsels, the agreements in respect of
 immovable properties are actually signed for and on behalf of the
 members by the Defendant. One such example is that of the
 property in Vishakhapatnam. The Defendant is thus playing the
 role of not merely an association holding something in trust but
 also has the power to enter into a transaction in respect of such
 properties.”
 (Emphasis supplied) 70. A conspectus of the aforesaid decisions of several High Courts indicate that they are

 unanimous in their view as regards the fact that a society registered under the Page No. 81 of 167 Societies Registration Act, 1860 cannot be termed as a trust or a constructive trust

 merely by virtue of the fact that its properties are vested in its governing body. The

 facts must contain circumstances clearly indicating the creation of a trust.

c. Section 5 of the Societies Registration Act, 1860 and the ‘vesting’ of properties

 in the Executive Committee. 71. The appellant Society has submitted that no trust has been created for the purpose of

 holding the society’s properties or its assets and it has been ‘vested’ in its Executive

 Committee only as per the mandate under Section 5 of the Societies Registration

 Act, 1860 which reads as thus: 72. A five-judge bench of this Court in Board of Trustees, Ayurvedic and Unani Tibia

 College, Delhi v. State of Delhi and Another reported in 1961 SCC OnLine SC

 145 while deciding a challenge to a State legislation, had the occasion to decide

 whether an entity registered as a society can be considered to be a ‘corporation’.

 Answering in the negative, it was stated that the most important aspect in resolving

 the said issue would be to determine whether there was an intention to incorporate.

 Upon perusal of the various provisions of the Societies Registration Act, 1860 , it

 was concluded that there were no sufficient words to indicate an intention to Page No. 82 of 167 incorporate; on the contrary, the provisions only revealed the absence of such an

intention. Further, it was stated that the expression “property belonging to the

society” under Section 5 , did not give the society a corporate status in the matter of

holding or acquiring property and that it merely described the property which either

vests in the trustees or the governing body for the time being. Though the provisions

of the Act undoubtedly confer certain privileges to a registered society and those

privileges are of considerable importance, some may even be analogous to the

privileges enjoyed by a corporation, it was held that there is no incorporation in the

sense in which the word is legally understood. The relevant observations are thus: Section 2 no doubt provides for a name as also for the objects of
 the society. Section 5 , however, states that the property belonging
 to the society, if not vested in trustees, shall be deemed to be vested
 in the governing body of the society and in all proceedings, civil
 and criminal, the property will be described as the property of the
 governing body. The section talks of property belonging to the
 society; but the property is vested in the trustees or in the
 governing body for the time being. The expression “property
 belonging to the society” does not give the society a corporate
 status in the matter of holding or acquiring property; it merely Page No. 83 of 167 describes the property which vests in the trustees or governing
body for the time being. Section 6 gives the society the right to sue
or be sued in the name of the president, chairman etc. and Section
7 provides that no suit or proceeding in a civil court shall abate
by reason of the death etc. of the person by or against whom the
suit has been brought. Section 8 again says that any judgment
obtained in a suit brought by or against the society shall be
enforced against it. It has been submitted before us that Sections
6 , 7 and 8 clothe the society with a legal personality and a
perpetual succession; and Section 10 enables the members of the
society to be sued as strangers, in certain circumstances, by the
society, and the costs awarded to the defendant in such a suit may
be recovered, at his election, from the officer in whose name the
suit was brought. Dealing with very similar provisions ( Sections
7 , 8 and 9 ) of the English Trade Union Act, 1871 (34 and 35 Vict.
c. 31) Lord Lindley said in the celebrated case of Taff Vale
Railway v. Amalgamated Society of Railway Servants [1901 AC
426] […] -xxx- 13. It is clear from the aforesaid decision that provisions similar
to the provisions of Sections 5 , 6 , 7 and 8 of the Societies
Registration Act, 1860 were held not to show any intention to
incorporate; on the contrary, the very resort to the machinery of
trustees or the governing body for the time being acquiring and
holding the property showed that there was no intention to
incorporate the society or union so as to give it a corporate
capacity for the purpose of holding and acquiring property. It
appears to us that the legal position is exactly the same with
regard to the provisions in Sections 5 , 6 , 7 and 8 of the Societies
Registration Act, 1860. They do not show any intention to
incorporate, though they confer certain privileges on a registered
society, which would be wholly unnecessary if the registered
society were a corporation. Sections 13 and 14 do not carry the
matter any further in favour of the petitioners. Section 13 provides
for dissolution of societies and adjustment of their affairs. It says
in effect that on dissolution of a society necessary steps shall be
taken for the disposal and settlement of the property of the society,
its claims and liabilities, according to the Rules of the society; if
there be no rules, then as the governing body shall find it expedient
provided that in the event of any dispute arising among the said
governing body or the members of the said society, the adjustment
of the affairs shall be referred to the court. Here again the
governing body is given a legal power somewhat distinct from that Page No. 84 of 167 of the society itself; because under Section 16 the governing body
 shall be the governors, council, directors, committee, trustees or
 other body to whom by the Rules and regulations of the society the
 management of its affairs is entrusted. 14. We have, therefore, come to the conclusion that the provisions
 aforesaid do not establish the main essential characteristic of a
 corporation aggregate, namely, that of an intention to incorporate
 the society. […] Those provisions undoubtedly give certain
 privileges to a society registered under that Act and the privileges
 are of considerable importance and some of those privileges are
 analogous to the privileges enjoyed by a corporation, but there is
 really no incorporation in the sense in which that word is legally
 understood.”
 (Emphasis supplied) 73. In Board of Trustees (supra), this Court while deciding on the question whether the

 Board members enjoyed any rights over the property of the society, clarified that,

 during the subsistence of the society, the right of the members was to ensure that the

 property was utilised for the charitable objects as set out in its memorandum and as

 such, that did not include any beneficial enjoyment on the part of the board members.

 The members also do not acquire any beneficial interest vis-à-vis the property on the

 dissolution of the society since Section 14 of the Societies Registration Act, 1860

 expressly negatives the right of the members of the society to any distribution of the

 assets of the dissolved body. Upon dissolution, the property has to be given over to

 some other society to be utilised for like purposes and the only right of the members

 was to determine which society the funds or property might be transferred to. The

 aforesaid right of the members to determine which new society the funds and

 property may be transferred to, was held to be not a right to “acquire, hold and

 dispose of property” within the meaning of the then Article 19(1)(f). The context in Page No. 85 of 167 which the words “dispose of” occurred in Article 19(1)(f) was said to denote that the

kind of property which a citizen has a right to hold and upon dissolution of the

society, the members cannot be said to acquire any right to “hold” the property in

their individual capacity. The relevant observations made are reproduced

hereinbelow: 74. In Illachi Devi and Others v. Jain Society, Protection of Orphans India and Others reported in (2003) 8 SCC 413, this Court held that a society cannot be the grantee

 of a probate or a letter of administration in accordance with the Indian Succession

 Act, 1925 by reiterating that a society registered under the Societies Registration

 Act, 1860 is not a body corporate or a juristic person and therefore, ineligible to be

 a grantee for the aforesaid purposes. The fact that a society is not capable of

 ownership of any property by itself was a characteristic which assumed significance

 in arriving at the conclusion that it cannot be construed to be a body corporate. It is

 due to this incapability that the property is vested either in trustees or the governing Page No. 87 of 167 body of the society. Nevertheless, it was held that a probate or letter of

administration can be granted to a person who is authorised by the society, either

under the statute or through a resolution, so that a Will or gift in favour of a society

does not become totally unenforceable in law. Such an authorised person would

carry out the wishes of the testator for the benefit of the society. The relevant

observations made are reproduced hereinbelow: Inasmuch as a company enjoys an identity distinct from its original
shareholders, whereas the society is undistinguishable, in some
aspects, from its own members, that would qualify as a material
distinction, which prevents societies from obtaining Letters of
Administration. 26. Vesting of property, therefore, does not take place in the
society. Similarly, the society cannot sue or be sued. It must sue or
be sued through a person nominated in that behalf. -xxx- 48. The apprehension of the High Court that in a case of this
nature, in the event, a Letter of Administration is not granted in
favour of the beneficiary society, the purport of the “Will” will be
frustrated, is not wholly correct and for grant of Letter of
Administration what is necessary is that the person duly
authorised by the society in accordance with the law may file such
an application. 52. We, however, intend to lay emphasis on the fact that a Will or
gift in favour of a society is not totally unenforceable in law. A
probate or Letter of Administration with a copy of the Will
annexed although may not be granted in favour of a society but
may be granted in favour of a person authorised by a society either
in terms of the statute or a resolution adopted in this behalf by the
society, as the case may be, so that such person may be answerable
to the court. On grant of a Letter of Administration the person so
nominated by the society shall carry out the wishes of the testator
for the benefit of the society. 55. For reasons stated above, the appeal is allowed in part. The
judgment under challenge stands modified. The matter is sent back
to the High Court with liberty to the respondent to amend the
petition for grant of the Letter of Administration. It would be open Page No. 89 of 167 to the respondent Society to nominate any of its office-bearers to
 whom the Letter of Administration is granted. Such nominated
 person may move an application for substitution of his name for
 grant of the Letter of Administration. If such amendment
 application is made, the High Court shall permit this amendment
 and grant the Letter of Administration in favour of the person
 nominated by the Society for carrying out the wishes of the testator
 which is for the benefit of the Society.”
 (Emphasis supplied) 75. In Tata Memorial Hospital Workers Union v. Tata Memorial Centre and Another reported in (2010) 8 SCC 480, this court considered in detail the effect of Section 5 of the Societies Registration Act, 1860. Therein, the Rules and Regulations of the

 respondent society had provided for the vesting of certain properties in the governing

 body of the society distinct from what was or may be vested separately in the

 trustees. While explaining the raison d’être behind Section 5 , it was opined that: 76. The relevant observations are reproduced hereinbelow: Section 5 of the Societies Registration Act clearly declares that the
property belonging to the society, meaning under its user, if not
vested in the trustees shall be deemed to be vested in the Governing
Council of the society. 72. In the present case, it is nobody's case that the property
remains vested in the trustees of Dorabji Tata Trust. It has been
canvassed on behalf of the first respondent that the property is
vested in the Central Government. However, the Central Page No. 92 of 167 Government has never claimed any title to the property adverse to
 the first respondent Tata Memorial Centre. It is true that the
 property dedicated to Tata Memorial Centre has not been
 transferred to the Society by the Central Government. But the fact
 is that it is the Governing Council of the first respondent which
 has been administering and controlling the day-to-day affairs of
 Tata Memorial Centre and its property funds, employment of its
 staff and their conditions of service. Hence, in view of the above
 referred to factual as well as legal scenario the first issue will have
 to be decided that the property dedicated to the first respondent
 will be deemed to be vested in the Governing Council of the first
 respondent Society.”
 (Emphasis supplied) 77. What follows from a conspectus of the aforesaid decisions discussing Section 5 of

 the Societies Registration Act, 1860 and the vesting of property in the governing

 body of the society is that, a society registered under the aforesaid Act is not a juristic

 person or a body corporate capable of holding property by itself. It is for this reason

 that a fictional vesting of the ‘property belonging to the society’ has been made in

 favour of the governing body of the society. 78. However, it is to be noted that the property can also be held in trust by certain trustees

 and this is evident from the use of the phrase “if not vested in trustees”. Several

 decisions have interpreted this to mean that there must be certain circumstances

 which give rise to the existence of a trust prior to the registration of the

 entity/institution as a society. However, it is our view that the aforesaid phrase

 cannot be restricted to such a narrow interpretation i.e., that the formation of the

 trust, either expressly or impliedly, must pre-exist the registration of the society. We

 say this simply because, if it were so, instead of using the phrase “if not vested in Page No. 93 of 167 trustees”, the language employed in the provision would have read “if not already

 vested in trustees”. Therefore, the property belonging to the society can be vested in

 trustees even after its registration as a society. There is nothing under Section 5 which bars the same. 79. However, if it is argued that a trust has instead separately been created for holding

 the property of the society after its registration as a society, the same must be clear

 and sufficiently proven. The considerations that would have to be weighed in order

 to ascertain if a public trust has been created prior to the registration of the society

 are already very lucidly elaborated in the decisions of this Court in Babu Bhagwan

 Din (supra), Gurunatharudhaswami (supra), Bihar State Board (supra) and Kuldip Chand (supra). Therein there remained no formal recognition of any sort of

 the entity/institution and the court was tasked to see if - (a) properties were vested

 in a public trust and, (b) if the trustee(s) was fettered with any obligation that

 required the properties to be applied for a certain purpose and, (c) if there was any

 condition or conduct which revealed a restriction of the exercise of individual rights

 over the said property or its proceeds. The aforesaid considerations, along with some

 others may also be pertinent to determine if the society, after its registration, has

 created a trust or entrusted other trustees with the property belonging to itself. It is

 not possible to exhaustively lay down all those circumstances in which such a

 separate trust can be said to be created. Having said so, one of the possible methods

 in which the society can create or intend to create a separate trust for holding its

 properties is when its Rules and Regulations or the Articles of its Memorandum of Page No. 94 of 167 Association provide for a separate trust or trustee(s) for the purpose of holding its

 properties. Alternatively, as in Young Mens Christian Association of Ernakulam (supra), the trustee (if they happen to also be a society) can mention in their Articles

 of Memorandum of Association that they hold the property belonging to another

 society as trustees. Further, the existence of an unequivocal trust deed executed by

 the society or its member representative, in favour of another trustee, for the purpose

 of holding its properties, could also seal the deal as far as the separate creation of a

 trust is concerned. All these could be a pertinent factors in determining the existence

 of a trust, separate from the governing body of the society, in which the property

 belonging to the society is vested. In this scenario, such a trust could be subjected to

 the jurisdiction under Section 92 of the CPC provided the other conditions for its

 invocation are met. 80. In the absence of the creation of a trust as aforesaid, property would be deemed to

 be vested in the governing body only. The governing body of the society upon which

 property is otherwise vested is duty bound to ensure that the property is put towards

 and utilised for the purposes/aims of the society as laid out in its Memorandum of

 Association or any Rules and Regulations governing the said matter. In case the

 society is dissolved, a decision must be made to transfer or vest all the property in

 another society working towards a like cause and the members would not have any

 right to distribute the assets belonging to the society between themselves. Therefore,

 both during the subsistence and dissolution of the society, the members or the Page No. 95 of 167 governing body cannot be said to possess any beneficial or individual interest over

 the property vested in them. 81. Hence, it follows that whenever a property is transferred to a society which is

 working towards a public purpose of a religious or charitable nature, the property

 would be said to belong to the society and be automatically vested in its governing

 body. Once a society is registered, all gifts, donations, grants-in-aid, etc. would vest

 in its governing body as per the mandate of Section 5 of the Societies Registration

 Act, 1860, in the absence of the creation of a separate trust/entrustment to other

 trustee(s), for the said purpose. 82. Moving ahead, the mere fact that a distinct trust can also be created i.e., either prior

 to or post the registration of a society under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 would not alter the capacity in which the governing body holds the properties

 belonging to the society. The governing body would also hold such properties in a

 well-confined fiduciary capacity. In other words, the phrasing of Section 5 , more

 specifically that “if not vested in trustees, shall be deemed to be vested, for the time

 being, in the governing body of such society”, does not indicate that if a trust has not

 be created for the purpose of holding the society’s properties, any fiduciary

 obligation that the governing body might owe to the society vis-à-vis the

 management and administration of the properties would dissipate into thin air. The

 aforesaid language employed in Section 5 must not be seen as giving rise to two

 polar opposite mechanisms through which the property of the society can be held Page No. 96 of 167 i.e., either in a trust with air-tight fiduciary obligations or not in a fiduciary capacity

 at all. In other words, it must not be read to mean that if the property is not vested in

 trustees, then it would remain vested in the governing body who would have zero

 fiduciary obligations. The governing body is also bound by duties of that of a

 fiduciary and this remains further fortified by the fact that the governing body does

 not enjoy any beneficial interest over the properties that it holds and must ensure

 that it is used for the object for which the society has been created. 83. In our opinion, the reason behind the use of the word “trustees” in the phrase “if not

 vested in trustees”, is a reflection of the intention of the legislature that the vesting

 of the property belonging to the society cannot be made in a casual manner to any

 and all persons regardless of any obligation. For argument, let’s say that the phrase

 instead read as “if not vested in any person”. In such a scenario, the persons in whom

 the property of the society vested would be able to possibly assert their own

 individual title or a competing claim to the property. This would give rise to a

 conflicting situation and deviate from the original purpose for which the property

 belonging to the society came to be vested in a third person. This is precisely the

 reason due to which the word “trustees” has been used under Section 5 of the

 Societies Registration Act, 1860. While interpreting the words employed in Section

 5 , we must not detract from the underlying purpose and objective for which it came

 to be enacted. Legislative creativity was employed to ensure that the incapability of

 the society to hold the property by itself does not have any practical effect on its

 ability to use and administer those properties. The idea was to ensure that the Page No. 97 of 167 property of the society may not be squandered or the object and purpose for which

the society was formed may not be defeated by persons having control of the

properties. The property was vested in such persons such that, in all circumstances,

they would remain bound and accountable to the society. The governing body of the

society would, no doubt, remain tethered to the aims and objectives for which the

society was formed and would be able to deal with the properties only as per the

Rules and Regulations of the Memorandum of Association. The other persons who

are capable and allowed to hold the property of the society were also intended to be

bound in a similar fashion and hence, the provisions incorporated the word

“trustees” to instil in such person(s), a fiduciary obligation which they could not

deviate from or ignore. However, this by itself, by no stretch of imagination, can be

interpreted to mean that since the provision allows for the property to be held by

trustees separately, the governing body of the society would not be constrained with

any fetter as regards their dealing with the property belonging to the society. It may

happen, more often than not, that a society does not create a trust for the purpose of

holding its properties and that is precisely why, there is an automatic vesting in the

governing body. What must instead reinforced is that, despite this automatic vesting

in the governing body, the fiduciary capacity in which the governing body would

hold the properties, not be altered. In simpler words, Section 5 seemingly provides

two options, or mechanisms through which a society can hold the property belonging

to itself – One, in trustee(s) or, two, in the governing body of the society. Both these

mechanisms/options belong to the same genus (fiduciaries), albeit they don’t fall in

the same species (the former is a trustee stricto sensu and the latter is not). Page No. 98 of 167 84. The governing body of the society would not only hold the properties and administer

 it as per their bye laws to fulfil its fundamental aims but also safeguard it for the

 future members of the society or the future governing body who would also have to

 tread the same path and continue the aims and objects of the society as envisaged by

 the founding members or as reflected in its governing documents. Therefore,

 perpetuity is assigned not only to the identity of the society but also to the properties

 which belong to it, provided the society is not dissolved. This adds to the reason that

 the governing body also acts within the contours of a strict fiduciary relationship. 85. Therefore, while it cannot be considered as an ‘express trust’, what must also be

 noted, at this crucial juncture, is that, for an entity to be brought within the rigours

 of Section 92, the plaintiff has the option of also contending that a ‘constructive

 trust’ exists in the circumstances and a breach of such a constructive trust has

 occurred or that the directions of the Court are necessary for the administration of

 such a constructive trust. d. The doctrine of constructive trust and its applicability to a society functioning

 for public purposes of a religious or charitable nature 86. In light of the discussion in the preceding paragraphs, we are tasked with

 determining whether a constructive trust could be created in a circumstance Page No. 99 of 167 wherein a society vests its property in its governing body through the deeming

 fiction employed under Section 5 of the Societies Registration Act, 1860. 87. On the one hand, an express trust is a legal relationship which is created by an

 individual(s) out of his own volition, while manifesting an intention to create a

 trust. This manifestation of intention can be express, either by words or through

 conduct. However, it is not always necessary that such intention be overt,

 unambiguous and unequivocal. Sometimes, the existence of an express trust

 might have to be inferred from the attending circumstances. In other words, a trust

 would be an express trust whether expressed in certain unambiguous language or

 whether inferred from uncertain ambiguous words and conduct of the settlor, for

 example, where precatory words are used by the settlor indicating a prayer or

 expectation that something be done in a specific manner such that it be imperative

 and binding in the circumstances. In English private trust jurisprudence, as

 expounded in the landmark decision in Knight v. Knight reported in (1840) 3

 Beav 148, ‘three certainties’ were required – (a) certainty of intention or an

 imperative that a trust be created; (b) certainty of the subject-matter or the

 property subject to the trust and; (c) the certainty of objects or the beneficiaries

 and the interest to be enjoyed by them. In that context, it was observed as thus: 88. The aforesaid principle has been codified in Indian jurisprudence under the Indian

 Trust Act, 1882 governing private trust which defines a private trust as a an

 obligation annexed to the ownership of property and arising out of a confidence

 reposed in and accepted by the owner, or declared and accepted by him, for the

 benefit of another, or of another and the owner. While we are not directly importing

 the aforesaid principles laid out under the Indian Trusts Act, 1882 , which governs

 private trusts, for application to a ‘public trust’, these principles aid in construing

 how an express trust, whether public or private, may be created. P Ramantha Aiyar

 in his Advanced Law Lexicon also adds that it is not necessary that the word ‘trust’

 be used. The trust would be express even if it has to be made out from the terms of Page No. 101 of 167 an instrument. Therefore, a declared and ascertainable intention to create a trust is

 the cornerstone of an express trust which further determines where the trustee’s

 fiduciary obligation can be sourced from. 89. Importing these principles to a society and its governing body which holds property

 on its behalf, it cannot be ascertained with reasonable certainty whether a fairly clear

 intention to create a trust on part of the settlor could be said to exist when the

 deeming fiction under Section 5 of the Societies Registration Act, 1860 is set into

 motion. It goes without saying that if the society creates a trust separately, as

 reflected in the words “if not vested in trustees”, an express trust would be created.

 However, in the absence of the same, the intention of the settlor to create a trust is

 difficult to ascertain, more so because the legislative framework under which this

 vesting is done is distinct. This is notwithstanding the fact that the governing body

 would still be acting in a fiduciary capacity. 90. On the other hand, a constructive trust, arises by operation of law, without regard to

 or irrespective of the intention of the parties to create a trust. It is imposed

 predominantly because the person(s) holding the title to the property would profit

 by a wrong or would be unjustly enriched if they were permitted to keep the property.

 In other words, a constructive trust, does not, like an express trust, arise because of

 a manifestation of an intention to create it, but it is imposed as a remedy to prevent

 unjust enrichment. A fiduciary element may be present in the declaration of a

 constructive trust when, say, for example, whenever a person clothed with a Page No. 102 of 167 fiduciary character, gains some personal advantage by availing himself of his

 situation as a trustee. In such cases, such person would also become a trustee of the

 advantage so gained. In other words, if a trustee, by reason of his position, acquires

 any advantage of a valuable kind, he would be a constructive trustee of that

 advantage. Furthermore, although some form of wrongdoing is generally required

 for the imposition of a constructive trust, it is not always a necessary element. It may

 also be imposed in case of a mistake where no wrongdoing is involved, say, for

 instance, when a fiduciary makes some profit even though he has not acted

 fraudulently. 91. However, it cannot be strictly said that only cases which contain a fiduciary element

 would serve as a bedrock for the declaration of a constructive trust. The

 circumstances which give rise to it may or may not involve a fiduciary relation - at

 least, this is the proposition laid down under American jurisprudence. Quoting the

 observations of Cardozo, J. in Beatty v. Guggenhein Exploration Co. reported in

 (1919) 225 N. Y. 380 - “a constructive trust is a formula through which the

 conscience of equity finds expression. When property has been acquired in such

 circumstances that the holder of legal title may not in good conscience retain the

 beneficial interest, equity converts him into a trustee”. In his subsequent decision

 rendered in Meinhard v. Salmon reported in (1928) 249 N.Y. 458, he also observed

 that – “A constructive trust is then the remedial device through which the preference

 of the self is made subordinate to loyalty to others”. It is, therefore, designed to

 prevent fraud or other inequity. In applying this doctrine, courts be said to also resort Page No. 103 of 167 to the maxim – “equity regards as done that which ought to be done”. According to

 American jurisprudence, an express trust is a substantive institution whereas a

 constructive trust is purely a remedial institution. That the term “constructive trust”

 was an expansive remedial concept and quite different from a fiduciary relation

 present in express trusts, was set in stone by the Restatement of the Law,

 Restitution promulgated by the American Law Institute in the year 1936. Comment (a) to Section 160 defining a constructive trust reads as follows: 92. It is largely believed that English Courts are generally reluctant to accept the doctrine

 of unjust enrichment as a broad ground for imposing a constructive trust, whereas

 the United States is more open to recognising it as a sufficient basis. In other words,

 American courts more often use constructive trust as a remedial device where

 specific restitution is appropriate on detailed consideration of the facts, whereas

 English Courts adopt a more institutional approach where some form of a fiduciary

 or quasi-fiduciary relationship is a pre-requisite instead of just prioritizing the

 overall equities. Therefore, in implying the existence of a constructive trust, the Page No. 104 of 167 English Courts recognise or give legal efficacy to a relationship or ‘institution’ that

 already exists. Some critics argue that the traditional American approach was,

 however, akin to that of England but that the doctrine was slowly expanded beyond

 the parallels of a fiduciary relationship over the period of time. 93. An example of the modern American approach is evident from the decision in

 Newton v. Porter reported in 69 N.Y. 133 (1877) wherein a constructive trust was

 imposed on the products of larceny. According to experts, this decision marked the

 cusp in the change of approach by the American Courts (from the English model to

 a remedial one) because in Campbell v. Drake reported in 39 N.C. 94 (1845), on

 similar facts, the Supreme Court of North Carolina had held that where a clerk in a

 store pilfered money and goods from his employer and uses those proceeds in the

 purchase of a tract of land, the employer who was robbed could neither hold the

 clerk nor his representatives after his death, as trustees of the land for the benefit of

 the employer, so as to enable him to call for a conveyance of the legal title to himself.

 To further elaborate, Campbell (supra) held as follows: 94. However, in Newton (supra), the Court of Appeals of New York took the view

 that the absence of a conventional relation of a trustee and cestui que trust between

 the plaintiff and the persons who committed larceny, would not stand in the way

 of enforcing an equitable remedy in the form of a constructive trust. It was opined

 that this would place the owner, who had been a victim of larceny and was

 deprived of his property, in a less favourable position in a court of equity than

 persons who lost their property through an abuse of trust or by the wrongful acts

 of a trustee to whom the possession of that trust property was confided. This must

 not be countenanced, according to the Court. The relevant observations are thus: Page No. 106 of 167 (Sto. Eq. Juris., § 1255.) And he states it to be a general principle
 that "whenever the property of a party has been wrongfully
 misapplied, or a trust fund has been wrongfully converted into
 another species of property, if its identity can be traced, it will be
 held in its new form liable to the rights of the original owner, or
 the cestui que trust." (§ 1258. See also, Hill on Trustees, p. 222.)

 We are of opinion that the absence of the conventional relation of
 trustee and cestui que trust between the plaintiff and the Warners,
 is no obstacle to giving the plaintiff the benefit of the notes and
 mortgage, or the proceeds in part of the stolen bonds. (See Bank
 of America v. Pollock, 4 Ed. Ch., 215.)”
 (Emphasis supplied) 95. In a similar fashion, in Pope v. Garrett reported in 147 Tex. 18 (1948), the Supreme

 Court of Texas had opined that a constructive trust could arise in a situation wherein

 the testator was prevented, by physical force or by creating a disturbance, shortly

 before her death, by two of her heirs, from executing a will solely in favour of the

 plaintiff who was the intended beneficiary. Therein, the legal title to the heirs has Page No. 107 of 167 passed on account of intestate succession and it was held that the heirs who were

guilty of the wrongful acts would become constructive trustees for the intended

beneficiary. Additionally, since some of the other innocent heirs would not have

inherited interest in the property but for the wrongful acts committed by some of the

heirs, it was opined that the imposition of a constructive trust on the property that

passed to all the heirs was a necessary remedy in the interests of justice. In other

words, the policy against unjust enrichment was also considered sufficient to justify

the imposition of a constructive trust upon the other innocent heirs as well. In

deciding so, it was observed as follows: 96. In Pope (supra), it was clarified that there may be multiple circumstances in the

 background of which a constructive trust may be impressed upon the property in

 favour of the one who is, in good conscience, entitled to it and who would be Page No. 109 of 167 considered as its beneficial owner in equity. It may be when one person obtains legal

 title to property by (a) fraud, or (b) violation of confidence of fiduciary relations, or (c) in any other unconscientious manner, such that he cannot equitably retain the

 property which belongs to another. Further, it was added that there may be a

 numberless amount of situations, as numberless as the modes by which the property

 may be obtained through bad faith and unconscientious acts, wherein equity can

 impress a constructive trust. 97. In McAnulty v. Std. Ins. Co. reported in (2023) 81 F.4th 1091, the United States

 Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit was faced with a dispute over the life

 insurance proceeds between a decedent’s ex-wife and his wife during his death. The

 ex-wife complained of unjust enrichment and imposition of a constructive trust on

 her behalf. The decedent’s only life insurance policy named his wife as the

 beneficiary while a divorce decree between the decedent and his ex-wife required

 him to maintain a $10,000 life insurance policy with the plaintiff as the sole

 beneficiary until his maintenance obligation to her was lawfully terminated.

 Amongst other things, while remanding the matter for further proceedings, it was

 underscored that unjust enrichment must first be established before the doctrine of

 constructive trust is resorted to as a remedy and that gaining an advantage for oneself

 through fraud or breach of fiduciary duty would not be the exclusive ground for

 establishing a constructive trust. The relevant observations are thus: […] That a "constructive trust is a remedy," Restatement (Third)
 § 55 cmt. a. not a prerequisite to a showing of unjust enrichment,
 is underscored by the Restatement (Third)'s placement of § 55 (the
 section dedicated to constructive trusts) in Chapter 7, which is
 titled "Remedies." -xxx- however, Coriell did not say that gaining an advantage for oneself
 through fraud or breach of fiduciary duty is the exclusive ground
 for establishing a constructive trust. Indeed, the very next sentence
 of the opinion states: "Constructive trusts are such as are raised
 by equity in respect of property which has been acquired by fraud,
 or where, though acquired originally without fraud, it is against
 equity that it should be retained by him who holds it." 563 F.2d at
 982 (internal quotation marks omitted; emphasis added). Hence,
 Coriell is fully consistent with imposing a constructive trust in this
 case.”
 (Emphasis supplied) 98. Therefore, the American approach is that there is no unyielding formula to which a

 court of equity is bound to, in deciding whether a constructive trust can be imposed

 since it is the equity of the transaction which will shape the measure of the relief. To

 put it simply, the focus of judicial enquiry would shift from the establishment of a

 fiduciary/confidential relationship and its abuse, to a determination of only whether Page No. 111 of 167 someone has been unjustly enriched and should therefore, be subject to an ‘equitable

 duty’ to return the unjust benefit. 99. On the other hand, English courts have stuck to the institutional model which is

 underpinned by the existence of a fiduciary/confidential relationship between the

 person(s) upon whom a constructive trust is imposed and the person(s) in whose

 favour it is created. Since the imposition of a constructive trust would have an impact

 on property rights, the English Court are circumspect in imposing it for the bare

 reason that justice be done inter se parties. According to English jurisprudence, a

 constructive trust is an institution very much like the express trust – a trust by

 analogy. It arises by operation of the law but when one person is under an existent

 obligation to hold a certain property for another. The constructive trust would come

 into existence from the date of the circumstances which give rise to it and the

 function of the court would only be to declare that such a trust has arisen in the past.

 In Bailey v. Angove’s Pty Ltd. reported in (2016) UKSC 47, the United Kingdom

 Supreme Court stressed on the differences between an institutional and a remedial

 constructive trust as follows: 100. Keech v. Sandford reported in (1726) Sel Cah Ch 61 is a landmark English

 decision on constructive trusts and a reflection of the rule that a person in a

 fiduciary position must not put himself in a position where his interest conflicts

 with that of the cestui que trust. Therein, a trustee, who held a lease on behalf of

 an infant beneficiary, made use of his influence in order to obtain a renewal of the

 lease for himself. Applying the principles of equity, the trustee was declared as

 holding the renewed lease also for the beneficiary and it was observed as thus: 101. In Paragon Finance plc v. Thakerar & Co. reported in (1999) 1 All ER 400, the

 Court of Appeal highlighted a fine distinction between the use of the words

 ‘constructive trust’ and ‘constructive trustee’ by equity lawyers in two entirely Page No. 113 of 167 different situations. The first, is where, a person, though not expressly appointed

as a trustee, has assumed the duties of a trustee and is holding property by virtue

of a lawful transaction or legal arrangement and subsequently, commits a breach

of trust. The legal arrangement through which he assumes the duties of a

trustee/fiduciary in the first place, is independent of the breach of trust and such

an underlying relationship by which control of the property is obtained is not what

is assailed or impeached by any plaintiff. He does not receive the trust property

in his own right but by an agreeable transaction and his possession of the property

is characterised by the confidence/trust reposed in him. The subsequent

appropriation of the property by him for his own use is a breach of that trust and

he is made accountable since he was entrusted with obligations of a trustee and it

would be unconscionable for him to assert any adverse beneficial interest over the

property entrusted to him. The second, is where the trust obligation itself arises

as a direct consequence of the transaction through which control of the property

is obtained. That very transaction is impeached by the plaintiff, as fraudulent. No

obligation or confidence is reposed on the defendant and if he received any trust

property at all, it would be by means of an unlawful transaction and from the

moment of receipt, be adverse to the plaintiff. What English jurisprudence refers

to as the ‘institutional constructive trust’ is the former scenario and not the latter.

The relevant observations are reproduced below: 102. In Stevens v. Hotel Portfolio II UK Ltd. reported in (2025) UKSC 28, one Mr.

 Ruhan, a director of Hotel Portfolio II UK Ltd (hereinafter HPII) was a

 constructive trustee of unauthorised profits in the sum of around £95m made in

 breach of his fiduciary duty as the director of HPII. Starting about a week later,

 the whole of that dividend was spent by him upon speculative projects of his own

 such that all of it was lost, untraceable and could not be recovered. Therefore,

 there was a breach of his duties as a constructive trustee as well. The main issue

 was whether a constructive trust of this kind would give rise to any liability on

 part of the dishonest assistant of the constructive trustee to compensate the

 beneficiary (HPII) for loss caused by such breach. While answering in the

 affirmative, the majority opinion observed as follows: This is because at the very least the constructive trustee's duty is
 to conserve the trust property for the benefit of the beneficiary, Page No. 117 of 167 rather than to deploy it in a way which destroys the beneficiary's
proprietary interest in it, as Mr Ruhan did, dishonestly assisted in
that regard by Mr Stevens. And it is inherent in that common
ground that, whereas Mr Ruhan had been a fiduciary for HPII
rather than a trustee stricto sensu, the relationship between them
in relation to the dividend once received by Mr Ruhan was that of
trustee and sole beneficiary, in which capacity HPII had a right to
call on Mr Ruhan for the transfer of the property on demand, albeit
in fact in ignorance of that right, or indeed of the existence of the
dividend itself or of the constructive trust of it affecting Mr Ruhan.
[…] -xxx- 25. The present case is not of course about bribes, but it is an
example of a profit made by a fiduciary “as a result of his fiduciary
position”, squarely within the settled equitable principle which
Lord Neuberger derived from Keech v Sandford and recently
examined by this court in Aquila Advisory Ltd v Faichney
[2021]UKSC 49; [2021] 1 WLR 5666 and Rukhadze. Applied to
this case, it means that Mr Ruhan is to be taken as having made
the profit constituted by the dividend on behalf of HPII, so that
from the moment of its receipt it was beneficially owned by HPII.
Furthermore, to the extent that there is any discernible distinction
between Keech v Sandford and this appeal, it is that this is a plain
case of fraud, whereas the older case was not. But the principle
that a trustee or fiduciary holds such profits upon an immediate
institutional constructive trust for the beneficiary does not depend
at all upon the fiduciary having acted dishonestly. As Lord Russell
of Killowen put it in relation to the parallel liability to account
in Regal (Hastings) Ltd v Gulliver [1967] 2 AC 134 at 144: owners of it. Page No. 118 of 167 -xxx- 42. […] The constructive trust of profits imposes the usual
 obligation on the constructive trustee not to dissipate the trust
 property, and the usual obligation on both him, and upon any
 dishonest assistant in the dissipation, to compensate the
 beneficiary for any loss caused thereby. -xxx- 100. It may assist in the digestion of this over-long judgment if I
 summarise my essential conclusions of law, as follows: existing and underlying fiduciary obligation, American courts are much more liberal

 with the concept and impose it as a remedy where circumstances warrant such

 intervention. 105. Most common law jurisdictions are accepting towards the doctrine of constructive

 trust as adopted in England i.e., the institutional model rather than a purely remedial

 one. Therefore, jurisprudentially there would remain no bar for India to also adopt

 such an approach. We say so also because, the Indian Trusts Act, 1882 (although

 dealing with private trusts) recognises the concept of an English ‘constructive trust’.

 Under Chapter IX titled ‘Obligation in the nature of trusts’ delineates several

 provisions wherein a resulting or a constructive trust, as accepted in common law Page No. 120 of 167 may be created. Additionally, the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Act reads

as follows: creditors (Section 93): 106. It is evident from the Statement of Objects and Reasons that the provisions

 contained in the Indian Trusts Act, 1882 are substantially those which were

 administered by the English Courts of Equity. As regards Chapter IX, a reference

 is made to the English approach of constructive trusts and it is stated that where

 no trust is declared but the law deems one to have been created for the purposes

 of justice, such a trust would be termed as ‘constructive’. The rationale behind Page No. 122 of 167 the enactment of Chapter IX was to avoid the fiction implied in the term

 ‘constructive trusts’ and to codify the doctrine within established parameters so

 that, even when motivated by the canons of justice, equity and good conscience,

 unfettered discretion is not employed by the courts while declaring a constructive

 trust (like in American jurisprudence). However, merely because the Chapter is

 titled ‘Obligations in the nature of a trust’, it cannot be stated that the concept of

 constructive trusts have been effaced from our statute books. Furthermore, the

 repeal of a few provisions under this Chapter, more specifically Sections 81, 82

 and 94 respectively, by the Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions Act,

 1988 , cannot be considered to reflect the intention of the legislature to do away

 with the concept of constructive trusts in the Indian context, in its entirety. At the

 most, it could be said that certain types of constructive trusts were declared to be

 impermissible under the Indian regime. Therefore, there being no prohibition on

 the declaration of ‘constructive trusts’ or as we call it, ‘obligations in the nature

 of a trust’ as far as private trusts are concerned, there would also remain no

 inhibition on courts to declare or impose a constructive trust on public entities.

 The same is an equitable doctrine which can be resorted to when the conditions

 for its imposition are met. 107. That constructive trusts can be imposed in the Indian regime was also alluded to

 by this Court in Janardan Dagdu Khomane and Another v. Eknath Bhiku Yadav

 & Ors. reported in (2019) 10 SCC 395 which elaborated on the doctrine of

 constructive trust. While also quoting Story who explained the doctrine of Page No. 123 of 167 ‘constructive trust’ in equity jurisprudence, it was stated that the receiving of money

which cannot be conscientiously retained is sufficient to raise a trust, in equity, in

favour of the party for whom or on whose account the money was received. It was

reiterated that a constructive trust arises by operation of law, irrespective of whether

the parties harboured any intention to create a trust. The relevant observations are

reproduced as thus: To quote Cardozo, J., “a constructive trust is a formula through
 which the conscience of equity finds expression”. 34. Story on Equity Jurisprudence has explained “Constructive
 Trust” as: 35. Section 90 (sic) of the Trusts Act states that if there is a person
in a fiduciary relation to another, he cannot take advantage of that
position so as to gain something exclusively for himself, which he
otherwise would not have obtained, but for the position which he
held. 36. Section 94 of the Trusts Act, 1882 has allowed the creation of
a constructive trust when situations went beyond the confines of
the Act. Section 94 has later been repealed by the Benami
Transactions Prohibition Act, 1988 . Section 94 of the Trusts Act
read: 37. In Gopal L. Raheja v. Vijay B. Raheja [Gopal L.
Raheja v. Vijay B. Raheja, 2007 SCC OnLine Bom 399 : (2007) 4
Bom CR 288] , the Bombay High Court restrained itself from
exercising its equitable jurisdiction to apply the English doctrine
of constructive trust when the legislature had specifically deleted
it from the Trusts Act . 38. In our view, the repeal of Section 94 of the Act does not put
any fetter in declaring a trust, even if the situation falls outside the
purview of the Act. Its jurisdiction can be derived from Section 151 CPC and Section 88 of the Trusts Act. Page No. 125 of 167 (Emphasis supplied) 108. In Janardan Dagdu Khomane (supra), this Court also noted that Section 88 of the

 Indian Trusts Act, 1882 provides that if a person is in a fiduciary relation to another,

 he cannot take advantage of that position so as to gain something exclusively for

 himself, which he otherwise would not have obtained but for the position he held. Although the decision of the Bombay High Court in Gopal L. Raheja v. Vijay B.

 Raheja reported in 2007 SCC OnLine Bom 399 had refrained from exercising its

 equitable jurisdiction to apply the English doctrine of ‘constructive trust’ citing the

 repeal of Section 94 in the Indian Trusts Act, 1882 by the Prohibition of Benami

 Property Transactions Act, 1988 , this Court disagreed with the said view and

 remarked that such a repeal does not put any fetter in declaring a trust “even if the

 situation falls outside the purview of the Act”. It was opined that the jurisdiction to

 invoke the said doctrine can always be derived from Section 151 of the CPC and Section 88 of the Indian Trusts Act, 1882. 109. However, it must be noted that an institutional constructive trust would arise the very

 moment any fiduciary removes or diverts the property from its intended beneficiaries

 for his exclusive benefit or for the benefit of those who are not the intended

 beneficiaries. This need not necessarily be due to an intention to defraud but may

 also arise due to a mistake. In other words, the moment the fiduciary receives money

 which he cannot conscientiously retain for himself, a constructive trust would be

 raised in favour of the beneficiaries on whose account the money was originally

 received. To put it simply, the factum that the fiduciary ‘withheld’ the property from Page No. 126 of 167 its rightful beneficiaries must be established. This would constitute a breach of

 his/her fiduciary duty and this benefit which has accrued to him would be held in

 constructive trust. The breach of his fiduciary duty i.e., his duty towards the society

 and its intended beneficiaries, must exist. 110. Coming back to the facts of the present case, the main aim and objective of the

 appellant Society is of a public and charitable nature. It is also limpid from the MoA,

 that all the incomes, earnings, movable or immovable properties are to be solely

 dedicated and applied towards to the promotion of the society’s aims. The MoA also

 lays down a strict “no profit rule” to the members of the Board, in any manner

 whatsoever. Article 11.2.1 of the AoA vests all the properties, both movable and

 immovable and all other kinds of assets in the Executive Committee of the appellant

 Society. Article 11.2.3.4 provides for a fundraising mechanism by way of gifts,

 donations, grants-in-aid or otherwise, both within and outside India. Article 11.2.3.5

 allows for the Executive Committee to raise loans for the purpose of furthering the

 objects of the appellant Society. Article 11.2.3.6 allows the receiving of monies,

 securities, instruments, investments or any other assets for and on behalf of the

 appellant Society. Article 13 , in the most unambiguous manner states that funds will

 be raised by way of grants-in-aid, donations, gifts, subscription fees and income

 from investments, loans and other means available to the Society and that they will

 be used to carry out the aims and objectives of the Society. Page No. 127 of 167 111. A perusal of the MoA and AoA of the appellant society reveals that it is a society

 of a charitable nature, having its properties vested in the governing body, who act as

 its fiduciaries. As elaborated previously, any conduct by the fiduciary which

 deprived the intended beneficiaries of their beneficial interest in the property, in such

 a manner that is in contravention to the covenants that bind him and confers an

 advantage to him to the detriment of the intended beneficiaries, must be taken into

 consideration to see if a constructive trust can be raised in law. All those diverted

 properties would then be held in a constructive trust by those fiduciaries who

 diverted it, in the capacity of ‘constructive trustees’. The respondent nos. 1 and 2

 respectively have levelled several allegations of siphoning of funds by the

 respondent nos. 3 and 4 respectively. The same would have to be conclusively

 proved for a constructive trust to have been created in equity. Obviously, at the stage

 of this present litigation, it is not possible for this Court to enter into an extensive

 factual inquiry in this regard. That is for the High Court to satisfy after the suit is

 allowed to progress. However, the allegations in the plaint may be said to prima

 facie satisfy the condition required to apply the doctrine of constructive trust to the

 present facts. Not to mention that, if these allegations are found to have no substance

 or plainly false, the entire suit would fail. But, in the peculiar circumstance in which

 the present matter rests, that would happen also for the reason that the circumstances

 which required the imposition of a constructive trust do not exist. 112. Thus, yet another ingredient under Section 92 of the CPC which requires to be

 satisfied, has been fulfilled. The counsel for the appellant society has also submitted Page No. 128 of 167 that the plaint is not entirely convincing on the whether the appellant society can be

 considered to be a constructive trust for the purposes of Section 92 and that there is

 only one paragraph in the plaint devoted to the aforesaid question. However, it is our

 view that the plaint cannot be scrutinised in such a mechanical manner. It is the

 substance of the claim which must be looked into and not merely the wording. Read

 in the right context, the plaint is sufficiently forthcoming about the facts and

 circumstances which evidence the existence of a constructive trust, at least at

 present, under the eyes of law. B. A breach of trust or the directions of the court being necessary for the

 administration of the trust 113. A suit under Section 92 can be maintainable for two broad reasons – one, that

 there has been a breach of any express or constructive trust created for a charitable

 or religious purpose or, two, that the directions of the court are necessary for the

 administration of such an express or constructive trust. The same was also

 emphasized by the decision of this Court in Syed Mohd. Salie Labbai v. Mohd.

 Hanifa reported in (1976) 4 SCC 780. Therein, it was held that a suit against persons

 exercising de facto control over property which has been dedicated for public use,

 would be maintainable, specifically when such properties are alleged to have been

 mismanaged and not maintained. The relevant observations are thus: 114. In Ramji Tripathi (supra), this Court while holding that a suit for the vindication

 of personal or individual rights was not maintainable, observed that: 115. In Vidyodaya Trust (supra), this Court had explained that in order to constitute a

 breach of trust, there must be an element of dishonest intention and lack of probity.

 If a mistaken action has been undertaken but with all bona fides, the same would not

 amount to a breach of trust. The Court also employed the test of a ‘prudent man’ to

 see whether the required standards of care, caution, rectitude and accuracy, without

 any reckless indifference has been exhibited by the trust and its trustees. In the first

 instance, the court is required to only look into the allegations in the plaint to see

 whether a suit under this provision lies. Once the suit commences and after the

 evidence is taken, if it is revealed that the breach of trust which has been alleged is

 not made out or, that the prayer for direction of the court is vague and not based on

 any solid factual or reasonable foundation, the court would be free to dismiss the

 suit for the said reasons. The relevant observations are reproduced hereinbelow: -xxx- 20. In Swami Paramatmanand case [ R.M. Narayana
 Chettiar v. N. Lakshmanan Chettiar , (1991) 1 SCC 48] it was held
 that it is only the allegations in the plaint that should be looked
 into in the first instance to see whether the suit falls within the
 ambit of Section 92. But if after evidence is taken it is found that
 the breach of trust alleged has not been made out and that the
 prayer for direction of the Court is vague and is not based on any
 solid foundation in fact or reason but is made only with a view to
 bringing the suit under the section then suit purporting to be
 brought under Section 92 must be dismissed.”

 (Emphasis supplied) 116. In the present case, the respondent nos. 1 and 2 respectively have alleged that the

 respondent nos. 3 and 4 respectively, were indulging in gross financial impropriety,

 misconduct and siphoning off of funds/donations received by the appellant Society

 for personal gains. As discussed in the previous section of this judgment, having

 arrived at the conclusion that the present situation pertains to a ‘constructive’ and

 not an ‘express’ trust, the question remains how the aforesaid allegations are to be

 considered, particularly in light of the condition vis-à-vis Section 92 CPC presently

 discussed in this section. As elaborated, the aforesaid allegations would have to be

 proven to serve a dual purpose i.e., to first, attract the doctrine of ‘constructive trust’

 to be imposed in equity and second, to proceed to prove that there has been a

 subsequent breach of that constructive trust or at least, that the directions of the court

 would be necessary for the administration of that constructive trust. To assert that

 there has been a breach of the constructive trust which was imposed upon an

 fiduciary who became a constructive trustee by virtue of his/her actions, it must be

 proven that the funds or property of the society that were allegedly diverted or Page No. 134 of 167 siphoned by the respondent nos. 3 and 4 respectively were further ‘divested’ by them

 for purposes which do not align with the aims and objectives of the appellant

 Society, similar to that which occurred in Stevens (supra). In other words, the duties

 which bound the respondent nos. 3 and 4 respectively upon being designated as

 ‘constructive trustees’ must have also been breached. Even if a further divestment

 of those diverted/siphoned funds had not occurred and they still remained intact but

 in the possession of the constructive trustees (respondent nos. 3 and 4 respectively)

 in their individual and not their fiduciary capacity, the plaintiffs can assert that

 directions pertaining to that constructive trust would still be needed from the court.

 Presently, we are convinced that directions, at the very least, are indeed necessary. 117. The respondent nos. 3 and 4 respectively have vehemently assailed the credibility

 of the Interim Forensic Audit Report and the Final Forensic Audit Report as being

 riddled with inconsistencies, unsubstantiated findings and categorical bias.

 However, at this stage of the proceeding, it would not be appropriate for the court to

 assess the veracity and legitimacy of all those observations/findings arrived at in the

 aforesaid reports with a view to verify the allegations made by the respondent nos.

 3 and 4 respectively. 118. This Court in Ramji Tripathi (supra) had observed that at the stage of grant of

 leave, it is only the allegations in the plaint which must be looked into in the first

 instance with a view to ascertain if the alleged breach of trust or the fact that the

 directions of the Court may be necessary, is evident or palpable and if the suit can Page No. 135 of 167 be brought within the ambit of Section 92. Even keeping aside the several forensic

 and audit reports which suggest that the affairs of the appellant Society must be

 scrutinised, a reading of the averments of the plaint fairly reveals the questionable

 conduct on behalf of respondent nos. 3 and 4 respectively. The allegations made

 therein are serious and cannot be ignored. Ultimately, as explained by us in the

 preceding paragraphs, if those allegations are proven to be false, mala fide and

 unfounded in the course of the suit proceedings, the entire case of the plaintiffs may

 fall and the suit be dismissed. However, to force a halt and sever the suit at its root,

 on the aforesaid contentions of the respondent nos. 3 and 4 respectively, which

 require an extensive factual inquiry, would not be proper at this stage.

C. The institution of the suit must be made by two or more persons “having

 an interest in the trust” 119. The phrase “persons having an interest in the trust” must neither be construed too

 narrowly or too widely. It must not be narrow for the reason that the word used is

 “interest” instead of “direct interest”. However, it must also be remembered that

 while no direct interest is required, the interest must denote a present and substantial

 interest and not a sentimental, remote, fictitious or purely illusory interest. It must

 be clear and direct. The reason behind the incorporation of this phrase under Section

 92 of the CPC again boils down to the object of preventing frivolous and Page No. 136 of 167 mischievous applications being filed by busy bodies, unconnected members of the

 public, and persons who do not possess a specific interest in the trust. 120. In T. Varghese George v. Kora K. George reported in (2012) 1 SCC 369, this

 Court considered the locus standi of the plaintiffs to institute the suit under Section

 92 concerning a secular public educational trust. Therein, of the three plaintiffs, one

 was a member of the Board of Trustees nominated by the founder himself, the

 second plaintiff was the brother-in-law of the founder who had raised funds for

 buying lands for the institution and for the construction of its school buildings and

 the third plaintiff was a parent of a student attending the institution. Considering the

 above, this Court had opined that none of these persons could be criticised as persons

 who lacked any good intention for the Trust and that they were persons interested in

 the functioning of the Trust. The relevant observations are reproduced hereinbelow: D. The reliefs falling within the scope of those enumerated under Section

 92(1) of the CPC along with the object, purpose and capacity in which

 the suit is brought. 124. Section 92(1) of the CPC provides for a list of reliefs which can be obtained by

 the plaintiffs through a decree from the court. They relate to removing a trustee,

 appointing a new trustee, vesting any property in a trustee, directing accounts and

 inquiries, declaring what proportion of the trust property or of the interest therein

 shall be allocated to any particular object of the trust, authorising the whole or any

 part of the trust property to be let, sold, mortgaged, or exchanged, settling a scheme,

 or granting such further or other reliefs as the nature of the case may require. As has

 been indicated by us in the preceding paragraphs, a suit under Section 92 is a special

 suit of a representative nature which must essentially be brought by plaintiffs in their

 capacity as representatives of the public and for the vindication of public rights. 125. In Mahant Pragdasji Guru Bhagwandasji v. Patel Ishwarlalbhai Narsibhai reported in (1952) 1 SCC 323, this Court had held that the plaintiffs must pray for

 one or the other of the reliefs that are specifically mentioned under Section 92(1).

 Therein, the courts had concurrently found, after examining the evidence on record

 that was adduced by the parties, that the allegations of breach of trust were not made

 out. The plaintiffs therein, had not sought for any direction from the court for the

 proper administration of the trust either. Therefore, the very foundation of the suit

 under Section 92 became wanting and there remained no cause of action for the Page No. 140 of 167 institution of the suit. In such circumstances, while dismissing the suit, the High

Court had, however, recorded a conclusive finding about the existence of a public

trust and made a declaration to that effect. This Court was of the view that such a

finding was wholly inconsequential and could not be made a part of the decree or

the final order in the shape of a declaratory relief for the reason that it cannot fall

under those reliefs mentioned under Section 92(1). The relevant observations are

thus: 126. In Mahant Pragdasji (supra), it was argued that even though the plaintiffs failed

 to prove the other allegations in the plaint, they had indeed succeeded in proving that

 the properties in question were public and charitable trust properties and that,

 therefore, the High Court had merely granted a ‘lesser’ relief than what was claimed

 under the suit, which relief did not offend Section 92. However, this Court had

 categorically held that in such a suit, the only reliefs which the plaintiff(s) can claim Page No. 142 of 167 and the court can grant, are those enumerated specifically under the different clauses

 under section 92(1). Therefore, the relief granted by the High Court in the form of a

 declaration that the properties in suit are in fact trust properties does not come under

 any of the clauses under Section 92(1). Had the situation been different i.e., if the

 plaintiff had succeeded in bringing an action under Section 92 and where the

 defendant had denied the existence of a trust, a declaratory relief that the trust does

 exist may be made as ancillary to the main relief under Section 92(1) claimed by the

 plaintiff(s). However, if the suit fails for want of cause of action, it would not be

 appropriate for the court to grant a declaratory relief purportedly under Section

 92(1). 127. The aforesaid decision has been discussed only with a view to emphasise that the

 reliefs claimed by the plaintiffs, must fall within those reliefs outlined under Section

 92(1). In this context, the nature of relief(s) which could be claimed or granted under

 the residual clause (h) under Section 92(1) was discussed by the three-judge bench

 decision of this Court in Charan Singh v. Darshan Singh reported in (1975) 1 SCC 298. This Court elaborated on whether clause (h) providing for “further or other

 relief” must be taken in connection with or considered as akin to clauses (a) to (g)

 or, whether any relief other than those outlined under clauses (a) to (g) would in all

 circumstances be covered by clause (h) in case of an alleged breach of an express or

 constructive trust. Attention was drawn to the fact that the word used after clause (g)

 and before clause (h) was “or”. In a given context, it was stated that it may be

 construed as “and” conjunctively and in others, it would remain as “or” in the Page No. 143 of 167 disjunctive sense. Further elaborating on the aforesaid, it was stated that if any

“further relief” was asked for in addition to any of the reliefs already mentioned

under clauses (a) to (g), then the word “or” must be construed as “and”. However, if

the relief prayed for is an “other relief” which is not in any way consequential to or

in addition of the reliefs already mentioned under clauses (a) to (g), then the word

“or” must be construed in the literal sense as an “or”. It is in the latter scenario,

where an “other relief” is claimed that the relief must be akin to or of the same nature

as any of the reliefs enumerated under clauses (a) to (g). The relevant observations

are thus: According to the plaintiffs case one of the objects of the religious
trust was the worship of Granth Sahib and its recital in
congregations of the public. In the suit a decree declaring what
portion of the trust property should be allocated to the said object
could be asked for under clause (e). The plaintiffs could also ask
for the settling of a scheme under clause (g) alleging
mismanagement of the religious trust on the part of the trustees.
In the settlement of the scheme could be included the worship and
recital of Granth Sahib — the holy Granth. The plaintiffs in their
plaint did not in terms ask for the one or the other. They, however, Page No. 145 of 167 alleged acts of breach of trust, mismanagement, undue
 interference with the right of the public in the worship of Granth
 Sahib. They wanted a decree of the Court against the appellant to
 force him to carry out the objects of the trust and to perform his
 duties as a trustee. Reading the plaint as a whole it is not a suit
 where the plaintiffs wanted a declaration of their right in the
 religious institution in respect of the Granth Sahib. But it was a
 suit where they wanted enforcement of due performance of the
 duties of the trustee in relation to a particular object of the trust.
 It is well-settled that the maintainability of the suit under Section
 92 of the Code depends upon the allegations in the plaint and does
 not fall for decision with reference to the averments in the written
 statement. -xxx- 11. […] In our judgment therefore the courts below were right in
 taking the view that the present suit was a suit for a decree under
 Section 92 of the Code and since it was not filed in conformity with
 the requirement of the said provision of law it was not
 maintainable. The contrary view taken by the Division Bench of
 the High Court in the letters patent appeal is not correct.”

 (Emphasis supplied) 128. In Charan Singh (supra), the contentious relief prayed for was not a “further

 relief” under clause (h) i.e., there were not multiple prayers of which some already

 fell under the reliefs contemplated under clauses (a) to (g) and the prayer in question

 fell outside the scope of clauses (a) to (g). It was a solitary relief which solely and

 completely fell under the ambit of “other relief” mentioned under clause (h).

 Therefore, this Court had to delve into whether the “other relief” claimed could be

 said to be akin to or of the same nature as those already enumerated under clauses (a) to (g). In conducting such an examination, it was opined that the relief prayed for

 was in the background of allegations of breach of trust, mismanagement and undue

 interference with the right of the public in the worship of the Granth Sahib. In

 essence, what the plaintiffs wanted was a decree of the Court against the defendant Page No. 146 of 167 in order to force him to carry out the objects of the trust and to perform his duties as

 a trustee. It was further held that, upon reading the plaint as a whole, what was

 claimed was not a declaration of the rights of the plaintiffs in the religious institution

 in respect of the Granth Sahib, but an enforcement of due performance of the duties

 of the trustee in relation to a particular object of the trust. Therefore, this solitary

 “other relief” was akin to those already mentioned under clauses (a) to (g) and was

 held to fall within the clause (h) and consequentially, under Section 92 of the CPC. 129. It has been sufficiently explained that the special nature of the suit under Section

 92 requires it to be filed fundamentally on behalf of the public for the vindication of

 public rights. In Sugra Bibi v. Hazi Kummu Mia reported in 1968 SCC OnLine SC

 99, this Court had placed reliance on the reasoning given by Woodroffe, J., in

 Budreedas v. Choonilal reported in ILR 33 Cal 789 and the opinion of Leach, C.J.

 in Tirumalai-Tirupati Devasthanams Committee v. Udiayar Krishnayya

 Shanbhaga reported in 1943 SCC OnLine Mad 48, to state that, the fact that a suit

 relates to a public trust of a religious or charitable nature and that the reliefs claimed

 fall within clauses (a) to (h) of Section 92(1) ‘would not by themselves attract the

 operation of the section’. It must be shown that the suit is of a representative

 character which is instituted in the interests of the public and not merely for the

 vindication of the individual or personal rights of the plaintiff(s). In other words, the

 Court must go beyond the reliefs and also give due regard to the capacity in which

 the plaintiffs are suing along with the purpose for which the suit is brought. The

 relevant observations are reproduced hereinbelow: In that case, a suit was instituted by a trustee of a public religious
trust against a co-trustee for accounts and the Full Bench decided
that it did not come within Section 92 of the Civil Procedure Code,
the claim being to enforce a purely personal right of the plaintiff
as a trustee against his co-trustees. The same view was taken by
the Madras High Court in The Tirumalai-Tirupati Devasthanams
Committee v. Udiayar Krishnayya Shanbhaga [ILR 1943 Mad
619] . In this case the general trustees of a public temple filed a
suit against the trustees for the recovery of moneys which the latter
had collected on behalf of the former praying for a decree
directing accounts and inquiries. It was held that the right to
collect moneys was entirely independent of Section 92 of the Civil
Procedure Code and no sanction of the Advocate-General was
necessary for the institution of the suit. Leach, C.J. who delivered
the judgment of the Court observed as follows: 11. We see no reason why the same principle should not apply, if
what the plaintiffs seek to vindicate here is the individual or
personal right of Krishnabodhashram to be installed as
Shankaracharya of the Math. Where two or more persons
interested in a Trust bring a suit purporting to be under Section
92, the question whether the suit is to vindicate the personal or
individual right of a third person or to assert the right of the public
must be decided after taking into account the dominant purpose of
the suit in the light of the allegations in the plaint. If, on the
allegations in the plaint, it is clear that the purpose of the suit was
to vindicate the individual right of Krishnabodhashram to be the
Shankaracharya, there is no reason to hold that the suit was
brought to uphold the right of the beneficiaries of the Trust, merely
because the suit was filed by two or more members of the public Page No. 151 of 167 after obtaining the sanction of the Advocate-General and claiming
 one or more of the reliefs specified in the section. There is no
 reason to think that whenever a suit is brought by two or more
 persons under Section 92, the suit is to vindicate the right of the
 public. As we said, it is the object or the purpose of the suit and
 not the reliefs that should decide whether it is one for vindicating
 the right of the public or the individual right of the plaintiffs or
 third persons. 12. The trial court, after reading the allegations in the plaint and
 after looking into the entire evidence in the case, came to the
 conclusion that the suit was primarily one for declaration that
 Krishnabodhashram was duly installed as the Shankaracharya of
 the Math on June 25, 1953 and that Respondent 1 had no right to
 be nominated as the Head of the Math by Brahmanand as he did
 not possess the requisite qualification and that his possession of
 the Trust property was only in the capacity of a trustee de son tort,
 and so he must be removed from the headship of the Math. The
 High Court saw no reason to differ from the finding. We would be
 slow to disturb a finding of this nature especially when we see that
 the allegations in the plaint are reasonably susceptible of being so
 read. We think that the purpose of the suit was to settle the
 controversy as to whether Krishnabodhashram or Respondent 1
 had the better claim to the headship of the Math and to the
 possession and management of its properties by obtaining a
 declaration of the Court. If the real purpose in bringing the suit
 was to vindicate the general right of the public to have the rightful
 claimant appointed to the office, there was no reason why the
 plaintiffs omitted to implead or at least refer in the plaint to the
 three persons nominated by Brahmanand in his Will to succeed
 him in the order indicated therein especially when it is seen that
 the plaintiffs accepted the custom of the Math to have the
 successor nominated by the incumbent for the time being of the
 office of Shankaracharya.”
 (Emphasis supplied) 132. The same was reiterated in by this Court in Vidyodaya Trust (supra). It was

 cemented that the court must go beyond what is literally stated in the reliefs and

 focus also on the purpose and object for which the suit was filed. On a

 comprehensive analysis of the averments in the plaint, if it is revealed that the

 primary object was the vindication of individual or personal rights of some person, Page No. 152 of 167 then such a suit must fall. That a hard-and-fast rule cannot be made for ascertaining

what the real purpose of the suit is was also emphasized. The same was elaborated

as follows: -xxx- 19. In the suit against public trusts, if on analysis of the averments
 contained in the plaint it transpires that the primary object behind
 the suit was the vindication of individual or personal rights of
 some persons an action under the provision does not lie. As noted
 in Swami Paramatmanand case [ R.M. Narayana Chettiar v. N.
 Lakshmanan Chettiar , (1991) 1 SCC 48] a suit under Section 92 CPC is a suit of special nature, which presupposes the existence
 of a public trust of religious or charitable character. When the
 plaintiffs do not sue to vindicate the right of the public but seek a
 declaration of their individual or personal rights or the individual
 or personal rights of any other persons or persons in whom they
 are interested, Section 92 has no application. -xxx- 23. One of the factual aspects which needs to be highlighted is that
 the allegations which have been made against Respondents 2, 3
 and 10 are referable to a decision taken by the Board, though may
 be by majority. The fundamental question that arises is whether
 allegations against three of them would be sufficient to taint the
 Board's decision. As was observed by this Court in Swami
 Paramatmanand case [ R.M. Narayana Chettiar v. N.
 Lakshmanan Chettiar , (1991) 1 SCC 48] , to gauge whether the
 suit was for vindicating public rights, the Court has to go beyond
 the relief and to focus on the purpose for which the suit is filed. To
 put it differently, it is the object or the purpose for filing the suit
 and not essentially the relief which is of paramount importance.
 There cannot be any hard-and-fast rule to find out whether the real
 purpose of the suit was vindicating public right or the object was Page No. 153 of 167 vindication of some personal rights. For this purpose the focus has
 to be on personal grievances. 24. On a close reading of the plaint averments, it is clear that
 though the colour of legitimacy was sought to be given by
 projecting as if the suit was for vindicating public rights the
 emphasis was on certain purely private and personal disputes.”

 (Emphasis supplied) 133. On a comprehensive reading of the averments of the plaint in the instant case,

 what comes across is that the plaintiffs have made serious allegations as regards the

 misadministration of the appellant Society along with levelling accusations of gross

 financial impropriety, misconduct and siphoning off of funds by the respondent nos.

 3 and 4 respectively. This, they contend, has ultimately affected the public at large

 who are the beneficiaries of the activities of the appellant society. However, having

 said the above, it cannot be ignored that the respondent nos. 1 and 2 respectively

 have also vehemently made averments regarding the wrongful dismissal of the

 respondent no. 1 from the post of the President and also as a board member of the

 appellant Society, and seek her reinstatement in one of the prayers. Additionally,

 they seek a declaration that all the decisions made by the board of the appellant

 Society after the date of dismissal of the respondent no. 1 be termed as illegal and

 void. The impugned decision is right in so far as observing that the respondent no. 1

 has also sought to agitate personal/private grievances through this suit. It must be

 kept in mind that a suit under Section 92 is one of a ‘special nature’. Therefore,

 issues involving the day-to-day management of the institution and grievances

 regarding election of members or certain board decisions pertaining to the Page No. 154 of 167 reshuffling of the elected/board members, must not be made in a suit of this nature,

 especially when such grievances can be redressed through other mechanisms or

 under a regular suit not falling within Section 92. Such issues must not be deviously

 magnified or amplified as if there is a breach of trust warranting intervention under

 this provision. 134. However, the fact that certain private rights are being agitated must not be reason

 enough to ignore the other allegations made in the suit regarding the functioning of

 the appellant Society and dismiss the suit outrightly, provided the suit is instituted

 in a representative capacity. It would always be open for the High Court, during the

 course of the suit proceedings, to grant not all but only some of the reliefs claimed

 by the respondent nos. 1 and 2 respectively, for the reason that the others are clearly

 beyond the scope of what is contemplated under Section 92 of the CPC. The reliefs

 in the present plaint, insofar as they agitate private rights, cannot be granted under a

 suit of this nature. 135. Additionally, as opined in Charan Singh (supra), when there exist some reliefs

 which clearly fall under clauses (a) to (g), the other prayers must be seen as

 constituting “further relief” and be interpreted with a conjunctive “and”. The non-

 conformity of those “further reliefs” with the reliefs enumerated under clauses (a) to (g) would not necessarily affect the maintainability of the suit itself. Herein, it is

 limpid that prayers (c), (d) and (e) of the plaint respectively, fall within clauses (a), (d) and (g) respectively of Section 92(1) for the removal of trustee(s), directing Page No. 155 of 167 accounts and inquiries, and settling a scheme respectively for the appellant Society.

 In other words, there exist prayers which clearly bring the scope of the suit within

 that of Section 92. In such a scenario, the prayers in the plaint which are specific to

 the vindication of personal rights of the respondent no. 1 would fall under “further

 relief(s)” and not “other relief(s)” and not have the consequence of affecting the

 maintainability of the suit, by themselves. For the sake of argument, had they been

 the only reliefs prayed for by the respondent nos. 1 and 2, they would have instead

 fell under the ambit of “other relief(s)”, and the word “or” under clause (h) would

 have literally been construed as a disjunctive “or”. We would have then examined

 whether those “other relief(s)” were akin to or of the same nature as those already

 enumerated under clauses (a) to (g) of Section 92(1). Those prayers clearly being for

 vindication of personal rights would have revealed that the suit’s sole and

 unequivocal purpose was not for any public purpose and have resulted the

 application for grant of leave to be dismissed. However, that not being the case

 presently, the prayers made by the respondent nos. 1 and 2 respectively largely fall

 under the ambit of Section 92(1). 136. As expounded by us in the preceding paragraphs and rightly pointed out in Sugra

 Bibi (supra), Ramji Tripathi (supra) and Vidyodaya Trust (supra), what must be

 looked at, is not only whether the reliefs prayed for fall within clauses (a) to (h) of

 Section 92(1) but also the predominant object or purpose for which the suit has

 been filed on a holistic reading of the entire plaint. The question as to whether the

 suit has been filed by the plaintiffs, as representatives of the public for the Page No. 156 of 167 vindication of public rights must assume paramount importance. The capacity in

 which the plaintiffs are suing must be given due consideration. As elaborated by us

 above, some prayers i.e., prayers (a) and (b) of the plaint fall outside the scope of

 Section 92(1) and some i.e., prayers (c), (d) and (e) of the plaint fall within the

 scope of Section 92(1). A reading of the contents of the plaint reveal several

 averments regarding the circumstances which led to the dismissal of the respondent

 no. 1 as also circumstances and events indicating the questionable conduct on part

 of respondent nos. 3 and 4 respectively in their capacity as fiduciaries. Therefore,

 the allegations in the plaint by themselves are also not clearly indicative of a single

 object/purpose for which the suit has been instituted i.e., whether it has been

 instituted by the respondent nos. 1 and 2 for the vindication of public rights in a

 representative capacity or for the purpose of canvassing personal grievances alone.

 No doubt, the respondent nos. 1 and 2 respectively may also have a personal axe to

 grind with the appellant Society and also respondent nos. 3 and 4 respectively,

 however, insofar as the background in which prayers (c), (d) and (e) have been

 made, it cannot be said with certainty that these prayers are also made with an

 absence of bona fides and a with vested interests. It cannot be said that the appellant

 Society is being needlessly entangled in a frivolous litigation or in a dispute which

 only pertains to the election/day-to-day management of the appellant Society.

F. CONCLUSION Page No. 157 of 167 137. For the sake of convenience, a conspectus of the legal and factual discussion in

 the preceding paragraphs is as follows: xii. Therefore, while the society cannot be considered as an ‘express trust’, what

 must also be noted, at this crucial juncture, is that, for an entity to be brought

 within the rigours of Section 92, the plaintiff has the option of also contending Page No. 162 of 167 that a ‘constructive trust’ exists in the circumstances and a breach of such a

 constructive trust has occurred or that the directions of the Court are necessary

 for the administration of such a constructive trust. xiii. A constructive trust, arises by operation of law, without regard to or

 irrespective of the intention of the parties to create a trust. It is imposed

 predominantly because the person(s) holding the title to the property would

 profit by a wrong or would be unjustly enriched if they were permitted to keep

 the property. The American and English models of ‘constructive trust’ although

 similar in nomenclature, bears a doctrinal difference, the former is remedial

 while the latter is institutional. In other words, in implying the existence of a

 constructive trust, the English Courts recognise or give legal efficacy to a

 fiduciary/confidential relationship or ‘institution’ that already exists. It would

 arise, by operation of law, but when one person is under an existent obligation

 to hold a certain property for another. This constructive trust would come into

 existence from the date of the circumstances which give rise to it and the

 function of the court would only be to declare that such a trust has arisen in the

 past. xiv. What must, however, be noted is that, for this equitable doctrine to be applied,

 the fiduciary must receive property or money which he cannot conscientiously

 retain. It is only thereafter that a constructive trust would be raised in favour of

 the beneficiaries on whose account the money was originally received. To put

 it simply, the factum that the fiduciary ‘withheld’ the property from its rightful

 beneficiaries must be established. That such a fiduciary sought to misapply the Page No. 163 of 167 property in contravention to the covenants that bound him, or sought to gain an

 advantage for himself, must be proved for a constructive trust to come into

 existence by the operation of law. That he further divested the said siphoned

 property/funds, would have to be proved in order to assert that the ‘constructive

 trust’ has additionally been breached. Even in the absence of such a further

 divestment, the directions of the court may still be necessary for the

 administration of the constructive trust. xv. The respondent nos. 1 and 2 respectively, having made several allegations of

 siphoning of funds by the respondent nos. 3 and 4 respectively, for their own

 personal use, could be said to have prima facie satisfied the condition required

 to apply the doctrine of constructive trust to the present facts. Not to mention

 that, if these allegations are found to have no substance or plainly false, the

 entire suit would fail. But, in the peculiar circumstance in which the present

 matter rests, that would happen also for the reason that the circumstances which

 required the imposition of a constructive trust do not exist/have not been

 proven. However, if found true, all the property diverted for the purpose of

 obtaining a pecuniary advantage would be subject to a constructive trust, the

 administration of which can be sought in a suit under Section 92 of the CPC

 and the respondent nos. 3 and 4 respectively would be considered to be

 ‘constructive trustees’. xvi. The phrase “persons having an interest in the trust” must neither be construed

 too narrowly nor too widely. It must not be narrow for the reason that the word

 used is “interest” instead of “direct interest”. However, it must also be Page No. 164 of 167 remembered that while no direct interest is required, the interest must denote a

 present and substantial interest and not a sentimental, remote, fictitious or

 purely illusory interest. xvii. While scrutinising whether the respondent nos. 1 and 2 respectively are persons

 interested in the trust and whether they are bringing the suit in a representative

 capacity, it is not just their designation or position which must be looked into

 or given importance to. While recognising that they have also sought some

 remedies related to personal grievances and the wrongful dismissal of the

 respondent no. 1 which could be seen as unduly magnifying an election dispute,

 there are several other allegations in the plaint which cannot simply be ignored

 and which give the respondent nos. 1 and 2 respectively, a dual role/capacity,

 whilst they’re agitating the matter under Section 92 of the CPC. The larger

 background in which the suit is brought alludes to the existence of public

 interest also at play. xviii. The reliefs claimed by the plaintiffs, must fall within those reliefs outlined

 under Section 92(1). As regards the question when a relief can be considered

 to fall under the residual clause (h) providing for “further or other relief” under

 Section 92(1), this Court in Charan Singh (supra) elaborated that if the relief

 prayed for is not a “further relief” but an “other relief” which is not in any way

 consequential to or in addition of the certain other reliefs already mentioned

 under clauses (a) to (g) and prayed for, then the “other relief” must be akin to

 or of the same nature as any of the reliefs enumerated under clauses (a) to (g). Page No. 165 of 167 xix. Furthermore, the special nature of the suit under Section 92 requires it to be

 filed fundamentally on behalf of the public for the vindication of public rights.

 Therefore, courts must go beyond the reliefs and also give due regard to the

 object and purpose for which the suit is brought. The true nature of the suit

 must be determined on a comprehensive understanding of the facts of the matter

 and a hard-and-fast rule cannot be made for the same. The fact that certain

 private rights are being agitated must not be reason enough to ignore the other

 allegations made in the suit and dismiss it outrightly, provided the suit is

 instituted in a representative capacity. The reliefs in the present plaint, insofar

 as they agitate private rights, cannot be granted under a suit of this nature.

xx. It is clarified that the issues involving the day-to-day management of the

 institution and grievances by members qua other members as regards the

 election of members or certain board decisions pertaining to the reshuffling of

 the elected/board members, must not be made in a suit of this nature, especially

 when such grievances can be redressed through other mechanisms or under a

 regular suit not falling within Section 92. Such issues must not be deviously

 magnified or amplified as if there is a breach of trust warranting intervention

 under this provision. Therefore, the reliefs insofar as the removal of the

 respondent no. 1 from the post of President and board member respectively are

 concerned along with the grievances which the respondent nos. 1 and 2

 respectively may have with the other board members, would have to be agitated

 in a separate suit not being falling under Section 92 of the CPC. Page No. 166 of 167 138. For all the foregoing reasons, this appeal fails and is hereby dismissed. The

 underlying suit bearing CS (OS) No. 153 of 2020 filed before the Single Judge of

 the High Court must be commenced at the earliest and the High Court must pay

 careful attention to whether the circumstances necessitating the imposition of a

 ‘constructive trust’ is made out. If yes, it must delineate the properties which would

 be subjected to the constructive trust and assess whether the reliefs prayed for under

 prayers (c), (d) and (e) respectively of the present plaint may be granted. 139. The Registry shall circulate one copy each of this judgment to all the High

 Courts. 140. Pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of. ……………………………..J.

 (J.B. Pardiwala)

 ……………………………..J.

 (R. Mahadevan)

New Delhi. 5th August, 2025. Page No. 167 of 167