1. This writ petition has been filed for seeking the directions that 

investigations into the financial transactions of the petitioner's late 

husband Shri Deven Malviya and his associates through various firms, 

and the mysterious cause of her husband's death in Hotel Marriott, 

Senapati Bapat Road, Pune be transferred to Central Bureau of 

Investigation (hereinafter called CBI) under Section 173 of the Code 

of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (hereinafter referred to as Cr.P.C .); and 


further to hand over all complaints made by various investors against 

the firms owned by her family members to the CBI for investigation. 2. Facts and circumstances giving rise to this case are as under: 3. The grounds on which the transfer is sought are as follows: 4. Heard Shri A.K. Sanghi, learned Senior counsel for the 

petitioner, Shri H.P. Rawal, learned ASG for CBI, Shri N. Nanavati, 4 learned counsel for the State of Gujarat and Shri Sanjay Kharde, 

learned counsel for the State of Maharashtra. So far as the case of suicide of petitioner's husband is 

concerned, the respondent No.2, Maharashtra police, is investigating 

the matter. During the investigation, three suicidal notes in the hand- writing of the deceased have been recovered. Father of the deceased 

identified the hand-writing of Deven Malviya, the deceased and 

investigation is going on. However, according to the investigation so 

far conducted it appears to be a plain and simple case of suicide, may 

be because of pressure of investors in his commercial activities. He was facing large number of demands from investors who 

could not even get back the principal amount, what to talk of 

multiplied amount or compounded interest etc. as assured by their 

agents and collectors/franchises. Therefore, he could not stand the 

pressure of his commitments, and as the angry investors were reported 

to have forcibly demanded their money back and had seized the 

documents of sale of house and office properties from his maternal 

uncle at Rajkot. 5. The petitioner did not render any assistance whatsoever to the 

Maharashtra Police in investigation of the said case, nor has she raised 

any grievance before this court that the investigation conducted by the 5 Maharashtra Police is not fair, though she is fully aware that the firms 

owned by the petitioner and her family members/relatives had 

collected huge amount from investors which had not been returned to 

them as promised and they had been pressing hard for recovery of 

their amount. In such circumstances, naturally a person will be under 

the pressure and may also commit suicide. However, in view of the 

fact that the matter is still being investigated by the Maharashtra 

Police, we do not think it proper to make any comment on it. 6. So far as the Gujarat Police is concerned, according to the 

counter affidavit filed by the State of Gujarat, only one FIR has been 

lodged, wherein the investigation has been concluded and charge 

sheet has been filed against 13 accused persons including petitioner. 7. In this background, the case is required to be examined as to 

whether in the facts and circumstances of the case, where in case of 

cheating, a charge sheet has been filed, the matter can, and is required 

to be transferred for investigation/further investigation to the CBI. 8. In Kashmeri Devi v. Delhi Admn. & Anr., AIR 1988 SC 

1323, this Court held that the magistrate can direct CBI to investigate 

a case, after charge sheet has been filed, by exercising his powers 

under Section 173(8) Cr.PC. It was stated accordingly:- 9. In Gudalure M.J. Cherian v. Union of India , (1992) 1 SCC 

397, this Court however, held that the power of directing investigation 

by CBI after chargesheet was filed, should not ordinarily be used, but 

only when necessary. The investigation having been completed by 

the police and charge-sheet submitted to the court, it is not for this 

Court, ordinarily, to reopen the investigation specially by entrusting 

the same to a specialised agency like CBI. Same view has been reiterated by this Court in Punjab & 

Haryana High Court Bar Assn., Chandigarh through its Secretary 

v. State of Punjab & Ors. AIR 1994 SC 1023. 10. In R.S. Sodhi v. State of U.P. & Ors. , AIR 1994 SC 38, this 

Court examined the case where the accusations were directed against 

the local police personnel. The Court held that it would be desirable 7 to entrust the investigation to an independent agency like the CBI so 

that all concerned including the relatives of the deceased may feel 

assured that an independent agency was looking into the matter and 

that would lend the final outcome of the investigation credibility. However faithfully the local police may carry out the investigation, 

the same would lack credibility since the allegations were against 

them. 11. This Court refused to direct the investigation by the CBI, after 

the charge sheet was filed in Vineet Narain & Ors. v. Union of 

India & Anr. AIR 1996 SC 3386. 12. In case of persons against whom a prima facie case is made 

out and a charge-sheet is filed in the competent court, it is that court 

which will then deal with that case on merits in accordance with law. (See : Union of India v. Sushil Kumar Modi , (1998) 8 SCC 661). 13. Relying on the observations in Union of India v. Sushil 

Kumar Modi (supra), this Court in Rajiv Ranjan Singh `Lalan' 

(VIII) v. Union of India ,(2006) 6 SCC 613, reiterated that the Court 

does not have the power to direct the CBI to investigate a matter after 

the chargesheet was filed. 14. The above three cases i.e. of Vineet Narain, Sushil Kumar 

Modi and Rajiv Rajan Singh were differentiated in a recent 

judgment by this Court in Rubabbuddin Sheikh v. State of Gujarat 

& Ors. , AIR 2010 SC 3175, wherein this Court held:- 15. In Ashok Kumar Todi v. Kishwar Jahan & Ors. , (2011) 3 

SCC 758, this Court dealt with a case in which Kishwar Jahan, 

mother of the deceased Rizwanur Rahman approached the High 

Court to transfer the investigation of his death from local police to 

CBI expressing her apprehension that State police would not conduct 

investigation fairly because her son had contracted inter-religion 

marriage with the daughter of a very affluent and influential 

businessman, who had very close relationship with high police 

officials. She produced sufficient material to establish the nexus 

between the main accused and top police officials. This court 

considering the reasonable apprehension in her mind about fair 9 investigation by the State CID, directed CBI to investigate the cause 

of death of Rizwanur Rahman. (See also: and Narmada Bai v. State of Gujarat, JT 2011 (4) SC 279). 16. Thus, it is evident that this Court has transferred the matter to 

CBI or any other special agency only when the Court was satisfied 

that the accused had been very powerful and influential person or 

State authorities like high police officials were involved and the 

investigation had not proceeded with in proper direction or it had been 

biased. In such a case, in order to do complete justice and having 

belief that it would lend the final outcome of the investigation 

credibility, such directions have been issued. 17. The case requires to be examined in the light of the aforesaid 

settled legal proposition. 18. Shri A.K. Sanghi, learned senior counsel appearing for the 

petitioner has tried to convince the court placing reliance on various 

newspaper cuttings filed as Annexures submitting that it could be a 

big scam of thousand of crores rupees, but we are not impressed by 10 such submissions as the police could find out that the total 

investments by investors had been only about Rs.60 crores. 19. In the instant case, the petitioner herself is the accused. A 

huge amount of Rs.60 crores has been collected from innocent 

persons giving them false assurances that their amount would have a 

high premium. It has not been alleged in the petition that any of the 

investor is very powerful or capable to manage the investigation 

against the petitioner or that the case of suicide of her husband is not 

properly investigated. It is no body's case that the police has 

unnecessarily harassed the petitioner; rather, the record of the case 

reveals that it is only after completing the investigation, that the 

charge sheet has been filed against 13 persons including the petitioner. No allegation of mala fide or bias has been alleged against any 

investigating authority nor had it been pleaded that charge sheet had 

been filed against the petitioner without investigating the case or 

having any vindictive attitude towards the petitioner. In fact, the 

petition is based purely on mere apprehension by the petitioner. None 

of the grounds taken by the petitioner for transfer is tenable. 20. In such a fact-situation, we do not see any cogent reason to 

interfere in the matter. The petition lacks merit and is accordingly 

dismissed. However, in case any action is taken by the investigating 

agency against the petitioner, she would be at liberty to seek the 

appropriate remedy before the appropriate forum and any observation 

made herein, shall not be treated adverse to her. ....................................J.

 (P. SATHASIVAM)

 

 ....................................J.

 (Dr. B.S. CHAUHAN)

New Delhi,

July 20, 2011 12