Heard Sri P.S.P.Suresh Kumar, learned counsel representing

Mr. Abu Akram, learned counsel for the petitioner, Sri N.

Rajeshwar Rao, learned Assistant Solicitor General appearing on

behalf of respondent Nos.1 and 2, Sri K. Surender, learned Special

Public Prosecutor for CBI appearing on behalf of respondent No.3

and learned Government Pleader for Home appearing on behalf of

respondent Nos.4, 5, 6 and 7. 2. The petitioner herein filed the present writ petition seeking

following reliefs: iii) To declare the action of Respondent No.7 for performing

biased and tainted investigation in Crime No.103/19, Nampally P.S.

under pressure/influence of Respondent No.8 to 11 from the

criminal prosecution initiated by the petitioner due to involvement

of Respondent No.8 to 11 along with Respondent No.12 in

consonance of political land grabbers for executing the present

heinous crime of murder of the petitioner along with his brother-in- KL,J
 wp_8201_2019 4 law as illegal, arbitrary and unconstitutional pass such other order or

orders as this Hon'ble Court deems fit and proper in the

circumstances of the case in the interest of justice. iv) To declare the action of Respondent No.7 for not arraying

the name of Respondent No. 8 to 11, 13 to 15, 17-22 along with

Respondent No.12 as accused in crime No.103/19 of Nampally P.S.

despite of statement given by the petitioner along with evidence as

illegal, arbitrary and unconstitutional pass such other order or orders

as this Hon'ble Court deems fit and proper in the circumstances of

the case in the interest of justice. v) To direct the Respondent No.1 and 2 to make tne enquiry

in all thee illegal activities of police officials of Central Crime

Station for highhandedly foisting false case against the petitioners in

civil disputes and causing illegal custodial death of the petitioners

father by doing custodial violence on 21-05-2017 and also made

attempt to murder of petitioner on 10-04-2019 under political

influence of political land grabbers and pass such other order or

orders may deem fit and proper in the circumstances of the case

pending disposal of the above writ petition.

FACTS: 3. On 10.04.2019 at about 7 pm the petitioner herein along with

his brother-in-law i.e. Bhupender Rathod went to More

Supermarket, Shanti Nagar, Hyderabad for the purpose of purchase

of vegetables. When they were coming out of said super market,
 KL,J
 wp_8201_2019 5 they were attacked with deadly weapons by one R. Srinivas and

others and they injured the petitioner on his throat, palm and right

arm and severe injury has been inflicted on his throat and they

injured the brother-in-law of the petitioner at his elbow, stomach

and leg and they threw acid. When the brother-in-law of the

petitioner tried to save him and two police men were standing

nearby. While injuring the petitioner and his brother-in-law, R.

Srinivas shouted that even if he kills the petitioner, he will be saved

by K.N. Vijay Kumar, ACP and his boss and they fled in white

colour, Range Rover S.U.V. On the basis of the complaint lodged

by brother-in-law of the petitioner on 10.04.2019, police Nampally

have registered a case in crime No.103 of 2019 against R. Srinivas

and others for the offence under Section 307 read with Section 34 IPC. According to petitioner, despite registration of crime on

10.04.2019 police had not completed the investigation so far.

CONTENTIONS OF THE PETITIONER: Political leaders and officials have bore grudge against the petitioner

herein for filing the above said cases and attempt to kill the

petitioner was made and therefore, he has submitted representations

to the Commissioner of Police to give security to him. He has also

filed WP.No.20011 of 2009 seeking police protection. He has

obtained several prohibitory orders against political leaders and land

grabbers from various courts as a counsel in respect of properties

involved hundreds of crores. He has also filed cases against leaders

belong to various political parties. The leaders of political parties

bore grudge against the petitioner herein. In an attack with iron

rods, the petitioner's spinal cord got damaged. He was admitted in

hospital for a long time. Several false cases were foisted against

him at the instance of political leaders and land grabbers. Petitioner

herein filed several writ petitions and criminal petitions to quash the

said proceedings pending against him. There is a big conspiracy in

which many politicians of ruling party including respondent Nos.8,

9, 10, 11 and 22 were involved. Since the police have not registered

the complaints lodged by his clients, the petitioner has filed several

private complaints under Section 200 Cr.P.C. before the learned

Magistrates, who in turn referred the same for the purpose of

investigation under Section 156 (3) Cr.P.C. The police officials
 KL,J
 wp_8201_2019 7 have bore grudge against the petitioner for the same. Police have

also harassed the father of the petitioner who is 75 years old man.

He was taken into police custody on 25.01.2017 by respondent

Nos.8 to 11 and 22 and father of the petitioner died while he was in

custody. Since no action is taken on the custodial death of his

father, the petitioner has filed WP.No.12297 of 2018 for registration

of crime and for referring the matter to C.B.I. and it is pending

before this Court. The mother of the petitioner has also filed writ

petition under Article 32 of the Constitution before the Hon'ble

Supreme Court and the Hon'ble Supreme directed the mother of the

petitioner to approach this Court and directed this Court to hear the

WP.No.12297 of 2018 as expeditiously as possible. Due to filing of

the said case, the police officials have developed grudge against the

petitioner herein. Respondent No.8 on the instructions of his boss

with the help of his business partner R. Srinivas made a plan to

eliminate the petitioner and in the said course of action, attempt was

made on 10.04.2019 to kill him. Though the crime was registered

on 10.04.2019 under Section 307 IPC read with Section 34 IPC, the

police have not completed the investigation so far. Since there are

allegations against K.N. Vijaykumar, ACP CCS DD, Hyderabad and

G. Jogaiah, Addl. Deputy Commissioner of Police, Mr. Avinash

Mohanthy, the Deputy Commissioner of Police, the Investigating

Officer in Cr.No.103 of 2019 did not complete the investigation so

far. The police have not been conducting impartial investigation in
 KL,J
 wp_8201_2019 8 the said crime. The name of said K.N. Vijayakumar, ACP is also

specifically mentioned in the complaint itself and higher police

officials were also involved in the said crime. The petitioner is

having apprehension that State Police may not conduct fair and

impartial investigation in crime No.103 of 2019 and therefore, he

sought that investigation has to be entrusted to an independent

agency like Central Bureau of Investigation (C.B.I.). He has filed a

detailed writ affidavit reiterating the said facts. Learned counsel for

the petitioner relied upon the principles laid down by the Apex

Court and this Court in several judgments in support of his

contention. 5. The petitioner has filed additional affidavit vide USR

No.11303 dated 23.02.2021 stating that he made

respondent Nos.8 to 22 as parties. He made certain allegations

against them. But said respondent Nos.8 to 22 including respondent

No.12 are not necessary parties to the present writ petition, since the

relief sought in the writ petition is only for transfer of investigation

and they have no say at the stage of investigation or at the stage of

transfer of investigation. Hence, he is not pressing the writ petition

against respondent Nos.8 to 22 and he is reserving his right to

agitate his grievance about their involvement in the offence before

the Investigating Agency concerned. With the said contentions,

petitioner sought to dismiss the present writ petition against

respondent Nos.8 to 22 as not pressed. KL,J
 wp_8201_2019 9 6. With the said contentions, learned senior Counsel for the

petitioner sought to entrust the investigation to C.B.I.

CONTENTIONS OF RESPONDENTS: 7. Respondent Nos.6 and 7 i.e. the Commissioner of Police,

Hyderabad City and the Station House Officer, Nampally Police

Station filed their respective counter affidavits. The petitioner

herein filed reply affidavit to the said counter affidavits.

Respondent No.7 also filed written instructions. 8. On receipt of the complaint from Sri Bhupender Rathod,

brother-in-law of the petitioner herein, police Nampally registered a

case in Crime No.103 of 2019 against R.Srinivas for the offence

under Section 307 read with Section 34 IPC and they have

commenced the investigation in the said crime. Even before

issuance of the F.I.R., the petitioner was shifted to Care Hospital,

Nampally by the defacto complainant himself. He was treated as in-

patient. The Statement of complainant was recorded. The police

have arrested A-1and A-2 i.e. R.Srinivas and Datta on 15.04.2019.

They have recorded the confessional statements of said accused also

in the presence of mediators. During the course of investigation, the

police found that the petitioner was admitted in Care hospital,

Nampally. Therefore, the petitioner was not in a position to give his

statement and as such, his statement was not recorded. After

discharge from the hospital, the petitioner did not turn-up to the

police station to give his statement. As his statement is crucial to go
 KL,J
 wp_8201_2019 10 ahead with the investigation, despite making several efforts, the

petitioner is not cooperating with the Investigating Officer in

concluding the investigation in crime No.103 of 2019. His

statement was recorded in partial consisting of 16 pages with great

difficulty. Since the petitioner is not responding to the phone calls

made to him, the Investigating Officer has sent several notices to the

residential address of petitioner through registered post. Despite

receiving and acknowledging the same, the petitioner did not turn-

up and did not cooperate with the Investigating Officer in

concluding the investigation. After registration of the crime, the

Investigating Officer, the SI of police who registered the case made

phone calls to the complainant and visited the scene of offence and

examined the same in the presence of mediators. Rough sketch was

also drawn. No incriminating material was found at the scene of

offence. The Investigating Officer has searched for the CCTV

Footage which did not yield any result as there were no CCTV

Cameras covering the scene of crime. The Investigating Officer has

secured the presence of eye-witnesses. Enquiries made with regard

to the attack on the petitioner would reveal that there are property

disputes between the petitioner and alleged accused and

investigation is under progress. 9. The petitioner herein is an accused in the following cases: KL,J
 wp_8201_2019 11 2) Crime No.27 of 2017 under Sections 447 , 420 , 468 , 471 , 120b, 506 r/w.34 IPC of CCS, Hyderabad. 3) Crime No.35 of 2017 under Sections 420 , 468 , 471 IPC
 of CCS, Hyderabad. 4) Crime No.49 of 2017 U/s.468, 471, 420 IPC of CCS,
 Hyderabad. 10. In the said cases, the police have arrested the petitioner

herein. Sri K.N.Vijay Kumar, ACP, CCS was the Investigating

Officer. Therefore, the petitioner herein falsely made certain false

allegations against said Vijay Kumar and other officials of CCS.

With great difficulty the Investigating Officer could secure the

presence of petitioner on 09.10.2019, 10.10.2019, 11.10.2019,

12.10.2019 and the petitioner deposed his partial statement in Part-II

consisting of 16 pages. The above said recording of statement of

the petitioner under Section 161 Cr.P.C. was videographed. In

spite of sincere efforts made by the Investigating Officer to record

the pending part-II statement of the petitioner under Section 161 Cr.P.C., he did not cooperate with the Investigating Officer due to

lack of diligence shown by him. Investigation is pending only due

to non-cooperation by the petitioner by furnishing information to

record the statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C. in concluding the

investigation. The petitioner has made false allegations against the

officials of CCS including respondent Nos.8, 9, 10, 11 and 22 with

mala fide intention to defame them and dilute the investigation in

the above said crimes, in which the petitioner is an accused. KL,J
 wp_8201_2019 12 11. The investigation done so far reveals that the attack was made

by A-1 in association with A2 due to previous enmity in connection

with monetary transaction. Respondent Nos.8 to 11 are the

Investigating Officers of the cases registered against the petitioner at

the Central Crime Station, Detective Department, Hyderabad

pertaining to land disputes arising out of forgery of documents etc.,

The petitioner is an Advocate and A1 herein have been previously

arrested and remanded to judicial custody by the police of CCS of

Detective Department. To take revenge against those officials, the

petitioner is trying to implicate them and those police officers are

not at all concerned in the present case of Attempt to Murder on the

petitioner. The allegations made against them are false and far from

truth. The petitioner wantedly took the plea of impleading

respondent Nos.8 to 11 to weaken their moral strength and not to

conduct fair and proper investigation of the cases registered against

him at the CCS. 12. Respondent No.7 has been conducting proper and thorough

investigation in a transparent manner. He has arrested A1 and

A-2 in the case. The investigation of the case is under progress and

the charge sheet will be filed as expeditiously as possible, provided

the petitioner cooperates with the Investigating Officer. The

petitioner being a legal professional, misusing and abusing the

process of law to create confusion and divert the issue, made certain

false allegations against the police officials of CCS, Hyderabad,
 KL,J
 wp_8201_2019 13 who are investigating officers in the above said crimes registered

against the petitioner herein. 13. With the said contentions, learned Government Pleader for

Home sought to dismiss the present writ petition. 14. Sri K. Surender, learned Special Public Prosecutor for CBI

would submit that entrustment of investigation to CBI is not in a

routine manner, in rarest of rare cases only, investigation has to be

entrusted to CBI. There will be reasonable apprehension and

documentary evidence to substantiate the said case. He would

further submit that, if petitioner is having any grievance against the

Investigating Officer in crime No.103 of 2019 that he is not

conducting fair investigation and that there is delay in completion of

investigation, he has to avail the other remedies available to him in

Chapter XII of the Code of Criminal Procedure ( Cr.P.C .). Instead of

doing so, the petitioner herein filed the present writ petition seeking

to entrust the investigation to CBI. In support of his contentions, he

placed reliance on the judgment of Hon'ble Apex Court in Sakiri

Vasu v. State of Uttarpradesh1. He has relied on the judgments of

the Hon'ble Apex Court in Arnab Ranjan Goswami v. Union of

India2 and Prof. K.V.Rajendran v. Superintendent of Police,

CBCID South Zone, Chennai3 . 1 . (2008) 2 SCC 409 2 . AIR 2020 SC (Criminal) 948 3 . AIR 2013 SC (SUPP) 508
 KL,J
 wp_8201_2019 14 15. The petitioner also filed reply affidavit to the counter affidavit

filed by respondent Nos.6 and 7. Even in the said reply affidavit, it

is the main contention of the petitioner that there are allegations

against respondent Nos.8 to 11, who are the Assistant

Commissioner of Police (ACP) and above the ACP level police

officers, the investigating officer, who is his subordinate, cannot

conduct investigation in a fair and transparent manner. According

to him when the higher police officials and political leaders are

having grudge against the petitioner herein and therefore, the police

officials may not be in a position to conduct fair and transparent

investigation in the present crime. Therefore, he sought to entrust

investigation to CBI. LEGAL POSITION 16. In view of the above rival submissions, the issue that falls for

consideration by this Court is whether it is a fit case to entrust the

investigation to CBI as sought by the petitioner herein? 17. To decide the said issue and the lis in the present writ

petition, this Court thought it proper to refer the formation of C.B.I

and its powers etc.,

 The Central Bureau of Investigation traces its origin to the

Special Police Establishment, Central Government Force was set up

in the year 1941 by the Government of India to investigate bribery

and corruption in transactions relating to the War and Supply

Department of India as the State Police found inadequate to cope up
 KL,J
 wp_8201_2019 15 with such offences. Special Establishment was established by an

executive order. Later the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act

(DSPE) was enacted on 19.11.1946. The said Act makes provision

for the constitution of special police in Delhi for investigation in

Union Territories, offences which are notified by the Central

Government under Section 3 of the said Act. The said

establishment acquired its popular current name, Centre Bureau of

Investigation (CBI) through a Home Ministry, Government of India

vide resolution dated 01.04.1963. Under Section 5 of the Act, the

Central Government may by order extend to any area (including

Railway areas) in a State not being a Union Territory, the powers of

jurisdiction on members of DSPE for the investigation of any

offences or class of offences specified in Notification under Section 3. When such powers are conferred on the member of DSPE, he

shall discharge the functions of a police officer in that area and

shall, while so discharging some functions, be deemed to be a

member of Police Force of that area and be vested with powers,

functions and privileges and be subject to the liabilities of a Police

Officer belonging to that Police Force and such member shall

exercise powers of the Officer in charge of a Police Station within

the limits of such Station. Section 6 of the Act operates as provisio to Section 5 . It says

nothing contained in Section 5 shall be deemed to enable any

member of the DSPE to exercise powers and jurisdiction in any area
 KL,J
 wp_8201_2019 16 in a State, without the consent of the Government of that State.

Therefore, for CBI to investigate into any crime pertaining to a

State, the prior consent of that State Government is essential.

However, the crucial point germane for consideration is, whether

Constitutional Courts can direct CBI investigation in a State crime

without the consent of the State Government and if so under what

governing parameters. 18. The Hon'ble Apex Court in State of West Bengal v.

Committee of Protection of Democratic rights, West Bengal4

gave certain conclusions, which are relevant and the same are

extracted below: (emphasis supplied). (iii) The power of judicial review conferred under Article
 32 on Apex Court and under Article 226 on the High
 Courts, which being an integral part of basic structure, no
 act of parliament can exclude or curtail the powers of the 4 . (2010) 3 SCC 571
 KL,J
 wp_8201_2019 17 constitutional Courts regarding the enforcement of
 fundamental rights. (iv) Restriction on Parliament by the Constitution and
 restriction on the Executive by Parliament under an
 enactment do not amount to the restriction on the powers of
 Judiciary under Articles 32 and 226 of the Constitution. (v) When Special Police Act itself provides that the CBI,
 subject to the consent of the State can take up investigation
 relating to the crime which is within the jurisdiction of the
 State police, the Court can also exercise its constitutional
 power of judicial review and direct CBI to take up
 investigation within the jurisdiction of the State. Such a
 power under Article 226 cannot be taken away, curtailed or
 diluted by Section 6 of Special Police Act. The restriction
 imposed by Section 6 on the powers of Union cannot be
 read as restriction on the powers of the constitutional
 Courts. (emphasis supplied). (vi) This extraordinary power must be exercised sparingly,
 cautiously and in exceptional situations where it becomes
 necessary to provide credibility and instil confidence in
 investigations or where the incident may have national and
 international ramifications or where such order may be
 necessary for doing complete justice and enforcing the
 fundamental rights. 19. In Subrata Chattoraj v. Union of India5 which relates to

Sarada Chit Fund Multi State Investment Scam, the Apex Court

while referring to Committee of Protection of Democratic rights

(4 supra) and other cases, having observed that apart from the

sensitivity of the issues involved, especially interstate ramifications 5 . (2014) 8 SCC 768
 KL,J
 wp_8201_2019 18 of the scam under investigation, CBI investigation is essential to

ensure credibility of investigation in the public perception. The

following observation of Apex Court is most important which is

extracted as under: 20. In Mithilesh Kumar Singh Kumar v. State of Rajasthan6 which relates to death of a fresher due to college ragging in

suspicious circumstances, while ordering transfer of investigation

from State police to CBI, the Apex Court observed that the decision

to transfer rests on Court's satisfaction that the circumstances of a

given case demand such an order. No hard and fast rule can possibly

be prescribed for universal application to all cases. The Court must

be sensitive to the principle that transfers are not ordered just 6 . (2015) 9 SCC 795
 KL,J
 wp_8201_2019 19 because a party seeks to lead the investigator to a given conclusion.

It is only when there is a reasonable apprehension about justice

becoming a victim because of shabby or partisan investigation that

the Court step in to exercise its extraordinary powers. 21. In Neelam Mishra v. Union of India7 , which relates to death

of a young girl aged 22 in suspicious circumstances, which was tried

to be projected as an accident, on the petition of the mother

contending that the photographs of the deceased revealed there has

been assault with immense brutality which could not be caused by

an accident and even the post mortem report did not rule out

homicidal assault and there was no proper investigation by the Delhi

police, the Apex Court ordered CBI enquiry in spite of the argument

of CBI that the Delhi police has taken extreme pains to solve the

issue and hence it cannot be found fault. In this context, the Apex

Court observed thus: 22. In Prof. K.V. Rajendran (3 Supra) a Three-Judge Bench of

the Apex Court held as under: 7 23. In Y.S. Sowbhagya, w/o. Late Y.S. Vivekananda Reddy v.

State of Andhra Pradesh8 wherein petitioner sought for CBI

enquiry to probe the death of Late Y.S. Vivekananda Reddy, brother

of late Dr.Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy (former Chief Minister of united

Andhra Pradesh) and uncle of Sri Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy, present

Chief Minister and former opposition leader of Andhra Pradesh and

the learned Judge of Andhra Pradesh High Court at Amaravati

entrusted the investigation to CBI. 24. Learned Judge has also relied upon the principle laid down by the Hon'ble Apex Court in E. Siva Kumar v. Union of India9 . 8 . 2020 Law Suit (AP) 119 9 . (2018) 7 SCC 365
 KL,J
 wp_8201_2019 21 25. In Arnab Ranjan Goswami (2 Supra), the Hon'ble Supreme

Court after referring to various judgments at paragraph No.36 held

as under: 26. This principle has been reiterated in K.V. Rajendran (3

Supra). Dr Justice B S Chauhan, speaking for a Three-Judge Bench

of this Court held: Elaborating on this principle, this Court observed: The Court reiterated that an investigation may be
transferred to the CBI only in "rare and exceptional cases". One
factor that courts may consider is that such transfer is
"imperative" to retain "public confidence in the impartial
working of the State agencies." This observation must be read
with the observations by the Constitution Bench in CPDR,
West Bengal that mere allegations against the police do not
constitute a sufficient basis to transfer the investigation. KL,J
 wp_8201_2019 23 With the said observations, the Hon'ble Apex Court declined to

entrust the investigation to CBI and it is the case of Editor-in-Chief

of News Channel, Arnab Ranjan Goswami. 27. In Rhea Chakraborty v. State of Bihar , where certain

accusations were made against Rhea Chakraborty, a girl friend of

Hindi movie Actor Sushant Singh Rajput, who died on 14.06.2020

in suspicious circumstances, the Hon'ble Supreme Court held that

the investigation has to be entrusted to CBI only in the

circumstances mentioned therein. 28. In R.S. Sodhi, Advocate v. State of U.P.10 ,

the Hon'ble Apex Court while dealing with fake encounter case

where ten persons were died, in view of the serious allegations made

against State Police and also considering that ten persons were died

in fake encounter, entrusted the investigation to CBI. 29. In Indersingh v. State of Punjab11, where on the allegation

of abduction of seven persons by Deputy Superintendent of Police

and considering the seriousness of allegations made in the said case,

the Hon'ble Supreme Court entrusted the investigation to CBI. 30. In Advocates Association, Bangalore v. Union of India12 while dealing with question of transfer of an investigation from the

State Police to the CBI in the context of an ugly incident involving 10 . 1994 (Supp) (1) SCC 143 11 . (1994) 6 SCC 275 12 . (2013) 10 SCC 611
 KL,J
 wp_8201_2019 24 advocates, police and media persons within the Bangalore City Civil

Court Complex, where the State has appointed DIG, CID to look

into the matter and High Court has constituted Special Investigation

Team, the Hon'ble Supreme Court considering the seriousness of

incident and allegations leveled against the officials of State Police

entrusted the investigation to CBI on the ground that the delay in

setting up of SIT was sufficient to warrant such transfer of

investigation to CBI. FINDING AND ANALYSIS: 31. In view of the law laid down by the Hon'ble Apex Court and

this Court in the above cited judgments, coming to the facts of the

case on hand, the petitioner herein, legal professional, sought

entrustment of investigation to CBI on the ground that there are

specific allegations against the higher officials of police including

respondent Nos.8 to 11 i.e. ACP, DCP and Additional Deputy

Commissioner of Police, Sub-Inspector of Police of CCS,

Hyderabad. According to the petitioner, though the crime was

registered on 10.04.2019, the police have not completed the

investigation so far. Several political leaders of ruling party

including other political parties and higher police officials are

having personal grudge against the petitioner for filing civil

complaints under Section 200 Cr.P.C. and writ petitions which

involves the land issue of crores of rupees. He has narrated several
 KL,J
 wp_8201_2019 25 facts with regard to the same at length in the affidavit filed

in support of the present writ petition. According to him, attack was

made on him earlier and his father was also died during custodial

interrogation. With the said contentions, he sought entrustment of

investigation to CBI. 32. It is the contention of respondents that the petitioner herein is

an accused in four cases stated supra and all the said cases are

pending with CCS, Hyderabad. Respondent Nos.8 to 11 are the

Investigating Officers in the said cases. The police have already

arrested the petitioner and others in the above said cases and

therefore, the petitioner to take revenge against them and to divert

the investigation, made certain false allegations against the said

officials i.e. respondent Nos.8 to 11. The petitioner herein is not

cooperating with the Investigating Officer in concluding the

investigation. In the counter affidavit filed by respondent Nos.6

and 7, they have specifically mentioned with regard to the efforts

made by them in conducting investigation by making calls, sending

notices under section 91 and 160 Cr.P.C. to the petitioner herein

with request him to appear before the Investigating Officer for the

purpose of recording statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C. The

petitioner herein is not cooperating with the Investigating Officer in

concluding the investigation. They have also filed copies of said

notices, postal receipts, photographs etc. The respondents have also

filed panchanama to show that in the presence of two mediators
 KL,J
 wp_8201_2019 26 they have affixed notice under Section 91 / 160 Cr.P.C. on the house

 of the petitioner. Thus, there are allegations and counter allegations

 against the petitioner and respondent Nos. 8 to 11. 33. As stated above, the petitioner himself filed the above stated

additional affidavit vide USR No.11303 praying this Court to dismiss

the present writ petition against respondent Nos.8 to 22 as not pressed.

Considering the said affidavit, granting liberty as sought by the

petitioner this Writ Petition is dismissed against respondent Nos.8 to

22 as not pressed. 34. There is no dispute that this Court under Article 226 of

Constitution is having power to entrust the investigation to any

independent agency including CBI. The said principle was also laid

down by the Apex Court in the judgments referred supra.

As held by the Hon'ble Apex Court in Arab Ranjan Goswami's

Case that transfer of investigation to CBI is not a matter of routine, in

extraordinary circumstances by using powers of this Court sparingly

in exceptional circumstances, the investigation has to be entrusted to

CBI. 35. As per the counter affidavit of respondent No.6, despite best

efforts and also serving notice under Section 160 Cr.P.C. on

23.04.2019, 23.04.2019 and 03.05.2019 and pasting notice on the

house of the petitioner on 09.08.2019, he is not cooperating with the

Investigating Officer to record his statement. With great difficulty,
 KL,J
 wp_8201_2019 27 they have recorded the statement of the petitioner consisting 16 pages

and entire recording of statement of the petitioner under Section 161 Cr.P.C. was videographed. They have also filed CD of the same

before this Court along with memo vide USR No.11558, dated

23.02.2021. They have also filed copies of notice dated 03.04.2019,

23.04.2019, 29.04.2019, 08.12.2020 and copy of letter addressed to

the learned Magistrate dated 19.08.2019. 36. In this case, it is also relevant to refer Chapter XII of Cr.P.C .

which deals with information to the police and their powers to

investigate. Section 156 Cr.P.C. deals with police powers to

investigate the cognizable cases. The Hon'ble Apex Court in Sakiri

Vasu (1 Supra) dealt with said powers of police officer in Chapter XII

of Cr.P.C . and also entrustment of investigation to CBI and held as

under: 37. In view of the same, it is relevant to note that the

Investigating Officer in crime No.103 of 2019 filed letter addressed

to learned XII Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Nampally

narrating the entire facts and also fact that the petitioner is not

cooperating with the Investigating Officer in completing the

investigation by recording his statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C.

requested the learned Magistrate to give instructions to

victim/injured, the petitioner herein to cooperate with the

investigation and direct him to depose his statement under Section

161 Cr.P.C. The petitioner herein did not avail the procedure laid

down in Chapter XII of Cr.P.C . He has not filed any memo or

petition before the concerned Magistrate complaining about the
 KL,J
 wp_8201_2019 30 action of Investigating Officer in not completing the investigation

and in not conducting the investigation in a fair and transparent

manner. He has not availed said recourse. 38. It is relevant to mention that the petitioner herein is a legal

professional. It is also stated that he has filed several complaints

under Section 200 Cr.P.C. complaining that the police refused to

register the complaints lodged by his clients for various offences

and that he has filed several petitions before criminal Courts, this

Court and the Hon'ble Apex Court. Surprisingly, he has not availed

the procedure laid down under Section 156 (3) Cr.P.C. in his own

case, ventilating his grievance of non-conducting of investigation in

a fair and transparent manner. 39. As stated supra, the petitioner herein has involved in the

following cases: 40. In view of the antecedents of the petitioner, and that he has

not availed the procedure laid down under Chapter XII of Cr.P.C .,

he cannot seek entrustment of investigation to CBI. Investigation
 KL,J
 wp_8201_2019 31 cannot be entrusted to CBI in a routine manner. In rarest of rate

cases, investigation can be entrusted to CBI. The respondent police

have filed sufficient material to show that they have made efforts to

conclude the investigation in Crime No.103 of 2019 by serving

notices etc., on the petitioner with a request to co-operate with the

Investigating Officer by giving his statement under section - 161 of Cr.P.C . It is also relevant to note that just because, the petitioner

made certain allegations against respondent Nos.8 to 11, police

officials of CCS, Hyderabad, who are Investigating Officers in the

above said crime registered against the petitioner, investigation

cannot be entrusted to CBI. 41. Though this Court is having power to entrust investigation to

CBI by invoking its extraordinary power under Article - 226 of the

Constitution of India, it has to be used sparingly in exceptional

circumstances. But, it is not a case where such exceptional

circumstance that exists, to entrust the investigation to CBI. 42. There are allegations and counter allegations against each

other by the petitioner and respondent-police. Considering the said

facts and also fact that in the complaint itself the name of Mr. K.N.

Vijay Kumar, A.C.P., CCS, Hyderabad, has been mentioned by

brother-in-law of the petitioner, conducting of investigation in crime

No.103 of 2019 by an Officer of the rank of S.I. or Inspector of

Police of the State Police is not justified. Photographs filed by the
 KL,J
 wp_8201_2019 32 petitioner would show that he has received grievous injuries. In

view of the said facts and circumstances of the case, it is not a rarest

of rare case, to order entrustment of investigation to CBI and the

petitioner herein failed to make out any circumstances or ground to

entrust the investigation to CBI. Therefore, this Court feels it

necessary that investigation has to be conducted by the Officer

above rank of A.C.P. Therefore, investigation has to be entrusted to

Deputy Commissioner of Police (D.C.P.) concerned i.e. Deputy

Commissioner of Police, Central Zone, Hyderabad. 43. Accordingly, the writ petition is disposed of entrusting the

investigation in crime No.103 of 2019 pending on the file of

Nampally Police Station to the Deputy Commissioner of Police

(D.C.P.), Central Zone, Hyderabad, who shall conduct fair and

transparent investigation in the said crime. The petitioner shall

cooperate with the Investigating Officer by furnishing information

and documents as sought by him in concluding the investigation.

The petitioner shall cooperate with the D.C.P. Central Zone by

giving his statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C. which was

incomplete. The Sub-Inspector of Police, the Investigating Officer

in Cr.No.103 of 2019 is directed to handover the file to the D.C.P.

Central Zone, Hyderabad forthwith. Considering the fact that crime

was registered on 10.04.2019 and allegation of attempt to murder,

offence under Section 307 read with Section 34 IPC, the D.C.P.

Central Zone is directed to complete the investigation in a fair and
 KL,J
 wp_8201_2019 33 transparent manner as expeditiously as possible. Liberty is granted

to the D.C.P. Central Zone to bring to the notice of this Court if the

petitioner (LW.2) or other witnesses fails to co-operate with him in

concluding the investigation in the said crime. 44. Further, this Writ Petition is dismissed against respondent

Nos.8 to 22 as not pressed. However, there shall be no order as to

costs. As a sequel, miscellaneous petitions, if any, pending in the

writ petition shall stand closed. __________________
 K. LAKSHMAN, J

Date: -06-2021
Note: