The Case­ 1. Present is a Section 34 petition thereby challenging the
Award of the Arbitrator dated 11.04.2017. Brief Facts of the Case­ 2. In brief the facts of the case are that petitioner is a widow
lady aged about 60 years who was working in United India
Insurance Company as Assistant Manager. Her husband (since
deceased) was having a De­mat account with respondent since
08.11.2007. On 13.07.2012 petitioner opened a De­mat account
with respondent who signed the Client Registration Form being
provided by the Stock Broker. Thereafter, the husband of the
petitioner namely Shri B. Vishwanath died on 21.10.2012. After the
death of her husband, she got a call from respondent towards the
end of October, 2012 when she telephonically informed the
respondent about the death of her husband. Somewhere in the
month of 2012, two officials visited the petitioner thereby apprising
her about the stock holdings of her husband's CDSL De­mat
account. Both the officials agreed that the petitioner was entitled to
the said shares and promised to do the needful. Thereafter, she
was informed that the email ID supplied by her actually belonged to
her husband and accordingly advised her to change the same and
accordingly same was changed by the petitioner. She also
changed her telephone number. 3. It is further the case of petitioner that after the death of her
husband, the official from respondent namely Shri Sanjeeb
Panigrahi and Shri Arvind Kumar forged the signatures of her Arbtn No.5400/17 Page 2 of 8 husband to transfer the stock of securities from her husband's
account to her account. It is further the case of petitioner that
thereafter, respondent transferred the stocks from the account of
her husband to the account of the petitioner on 17.12.2012.
Further on 18.12.2012 the stocks which were transferred to her
account were sold out and again were repurchased on the same
day. It is further the case of petitioner that she never traded in her
account in Futures & Options and it was respondent itself who
started trading from her account thereby causing her huge losses. 4. It is further the case of petitioner that pursuant to the dispute
having arisen, she filed a complaint with CDSL, NSE and BSE on
19.05.2015. Thereafter, parties were referred to IGRP for
settlement of disputes but as no settlement had taken place,
thereafter her matter was referred to an Arbitral Tribunal who
passed an Award dated 10.10.2016. 5. It is the case of petitioner that in the impugned first Awardm it
was held by Arbitral Tribunal that issue regarding the transfer of
shares from the De­mat account of her husband to the account of
petitioner is beyond the jurisdiction of the Arbitral Tribunal. The
relevant extract of the Award is as follows­
 "7. One of the allegations of the applicant in the
 statement of case is that on the basis of forged DISs
 the respondent had fraudulently transferred in
 December, 2012 the share holdings of the value of
 Rs.1.42 Crore from the Semat account of the Arbtn No.5400/17 Page 3 of 8 applicant's late husband Shri B. Vishwanath to her
 account and disposed it off to pay her an amount of
 Rs.40,54,240/­ and to liquidate the debit balance
 created by the unauthorized trades and transactions
 carried out in her account by the respondent. The
 applicant, as such, is disputing the transactions which
 have been carried out in the Demat account of her
 late husband Shri B. Vishwanath. The dispute
 relating to these transfer entries is with the DP and
 the disputes and differences which arise in relation to
 these transfer entries is with the DP and the disputes
 and differences which arise in relation to the
 transactions in the Demat account are governed and
 regulated by the Rules and Regulations of CDSL, the
 controlling authority which also provide arbitration
 mechanism for resolving the disputes. These
 transfers, transactions in the Demat account have not
 taken place on the NSE platform, so they cannot be
 the subject of an arbitration proceedings initiated in
 accordance with the Bye­laws, Rules and Regulations
 of the NSE. This tribunal does not have any
 jurisdiction to deal with them and adjudicate upon the
 dispute relating to the transactions in the Demat
 account of late Shri B. Vishwanath, husband of the
 applicant, or even of the applicant. Interestingly, the
 applicant, on the one hand, is accusing the
 respondent of committing forgery or fraud in the
 matter of transfer of shareholdings of late Shri B.
 Vishwanath to her Demat account and on the other
 hand she had accepted the receipt of all those share
 holdings in her own Demat account and had never
 raised any objection to such transfer. In fact, as per
 her allegations she directed sale of some of those
 shareholdings which belonged to her late husband
 Shri B. Vishwanath but received by transfer in her
 Demat account. She is selectively disputing the sale
 of remaining shareholdings alleging that it was carried
 out by the respondent without her consent and
 authority. There is an obvious dichotomy in different Arbtn No.5400/17 Page 4 of 8 stands taken by the applicant. While she alleges
 fraud in transfer of shares from the husband's Demat
 account to her own Demat account, she retains
 benefit on account of sale of a part of the stock but
 disputes sale of the balance stock. Anyhow, so far as
 the allegation about the transaction in Demat account
 of her late husband Shri B. Vishwanath or even in her
 own Demat account are concerned, the same cannot
 be looked into and decided in the present
 proceedings. The contention of the applicant to that
 extent is not tenable in the present proceedings. So,
 we reject it". 6. It is further the case of petitioner that as far as rest of the
claim was concerned, her claim was rejected by Arbitral Tribunal.
The relevant extract from the award is as follows­
 "23. The applicant has alleged that the shareholding
 in the account of her husband as on 30.09.2012 was
 of the value of Rs.1,44,25,190.24 out of which she
 had been paid in March, 2013 a sum of
 Rs.40,54,240/­. Therefore, she has made the claim
 for the balance of the value of shareholding which is
 Rs.1,02,74,250.72. She is also claiming interest on
 this amount at the rate of 12% per annum which has
 been calculated by her at Rs.41,09,700.28 making
 her total claim of Rs.1,43,83,951/­. In view of our
 findings that there had not been any unauthorized
 trading / transaction in the account of the applicant,
 we reject the claim of the applicant". 7. The said Award was challenged by the petitioner before the
Appellate Tribunal of the National Stock Exchange. The Appellate
Tribunal passed an Award dated 11.04.2017 whereby it was held
that the entire claim is outside the jurisdiction of the Arbitral Arbtn No.5400/17 Page 5 of 8 Tribunal. It is submitted that the second Arbitral Tribunal in para 10
and 11 of the Award observed that respondents were not able to
justify the transactions made from the account of the appellant's
husband who had already died on 21.10.2012 which was done
after his death. Further it was observed that there is no
explanation that why respondent sold stocks from the account of
appellant same day and repurchase the same on the same day
itself. 8. It is further averred that Arbitral Tribunal erred in holding that
the entire claim was outside the purview of the Arbitration. 9. Respondent was proceeded ex­parte. Reasons for Decision­ 10. I have heard the petitioner and gone through the record. 11. According to the Bylaws framed by National Stock Exchange,
Chapter 11 deals with arbitration. According to Clause 1A of the
arbitration, the following are the disputes which are covered
therein­
 "(1A) All claims, differences or disputes between the
 Trading Members and Sub­brokers and between
 Sub­brokers and Clients of Sub­brokers arising out of
 or in relation to dealings, contracts and transactions
 made subject to the Byelaws, Rules and Regulations
 of the Exchange or with reference to anything
 incidental thereto or in pursuance thereof or relating
 to their validity, construction, interpretation, fulfilment
 or the rights, obligations and liabilities of the parties
 thereto and including any question of whether such Arbtn No.5400/17 Page 6 of 8 dealings, transactions and contracts have been
 entered into shall be submitted to arbitration in
 accordance with the provisions of these Byelaws and
 Regulations". 12. Hence, it is specifically mentioned in Clause 1A that disputes
between brokers and clients in relation to dealings and transactions
are covered. 13. Further petitioner went in appeal before Appellate Arbitral
Tribunal thereby challenging the first Award wherein it was held
that the transfer of shares from the account of husband of
petitioner to the account of petitioner were outside the purview.
Further she had challenged the rejection of her claims. 14. However, the Appellate Tribunal passed the Award after
making some observations in para 10 and 11. In para 12 the
Arbitrator observed as follows­
 "12. We are of the view that the Hon'ble Tribunal has
 missed this critical fact. However, we will hesitate to
 take in view regarding this as the Hon'ble Tribunal
 has held that this dispute is not under the jurisdiction
 of the Hon'ble Tribunal as it related to Demat
 account. We agree with the views of the Hon'ble
 Tribunal in this regard and the Appellant is at the
 liberty to approach the competent forum for relief". 15. It appears that Appellate Tribunal erred in observing that first
Tribunal has held the entire claim to be outside the purview. 16. There were two fold submissions of the petitioner before the
Arbitral Tribunal. Firstly, regarding the unauthorized transfer of Arbtn No.5400/17 Page 7 of 8 shares from her husband's account to her account and secondly,
the unauthorized trading of shares from her Demat account. The
first Tribunal had held that the transfer of Demat shares from the
account of her husband to her account was outside the purview but
dealt with the second claim on merits. However, the Appellate
Tribunal in para 12 observed that Hon'ble Tribunal has held that it
was not under the jurisdiction of the Tribunal as it relates to Demat
account. To that extent, the Award is illegal. It was nowhere held
by the first Appellate Tribunal that the entire claim of the petitioner
was outside its purview. In the circumstances, the Award of the
Arbitral Tribunal is set aside and is remanded back with direction to
decide on merits the issue regarding the trading of shares from
petitioners accounts. 17. Copy of this order sheet be sent to the relevant authority to
place it before appellate Tribunal within 45 days from the date of
this order for proper adjudication. 18. Present Section 34 petition is accordingly disposed off.