­ 1. Vide this judgment, I shall dispose of a suit for permanent and

 mandatory injunction, filed by the plaintiff. 2. Brief facts of the case of the plaintiff are that the plaintiffs have let

 out two rooms situated on the ground floor of the premises bearing

 no. 11103­B, Swarn Gali, Motia Khan, New Delhi­110055, to the

 defendant no. 1 on a monthly rent of Rs. 100/­ exclusive of

 electricity and other charges. The parties have reduced the terms

 of tenancy as per the rent agreement dated 03/06/1996. Copy of

 the Rent Agreement executed between the parties is annexed

 herewith as Annexure 'A'. It is further submitted that as per the

 terms and conditions of the Rent Agreement, the defendant no. 1

 has agreed not to make addition/alteration in the property. It is

 further submitted that the defendant no. 1 has been paying the rent Suit No. 525/2012 Page No. 3 of 22 of the premises to the plaintiffs and the rent receipt used to be

 issued after receiving the rent of the premises. That the rent of of

 the premises has been paid at the aforesaid rate to the plaintiffs

 upto June, 2001. The defendant no. 1 has not paid the rent of the

 premises w.e.f July 2001, till date. It is further submitted that the

 defendant no. 1 has demolished the tenanted accommodation few

 days back. That the plaintiff no. 2 has visited the premises and

 came to know that the defendant no. 1 has been demolished the

 tenanted premises. That the plaintiffs have requested the

 defendant no. 1, not to raise any construction in the said premises

 which he has already demolished but the defendant no. 1 has not

 paid not heed to the request of the plaintiffs. The plaintiffs have

 lodged a report dated 26/06/2002 with the Police Station Sadar

 Bazar, Delhi with regard to the unauthorised and illegal

 construction which the defendant is raising on the said land after

 demolishing the said tenanted accommodation belonging to the

 owners of the property. The defendant no. 2 after receiving the

 report from the plaintiffs, has restrained the defendant no. 1 and

 his contractors from raising any construction in the said property.

 The defendant no. 1 has no right to make any addition/alteration in

 the property after demolishing the tenanted premises. It is further

 submitted that the defendant no. 1 has made himself liable for Suit No. 525/2012 Page No. 4 of 22 eviction as per the provision of Section 14 (1) (j) of Delhi Rent

 Control Act and he has demolished is liable for all consequences

 as per the provision of law in the Court of Rent Controller as well

 as before the Civil Court with regard to the quantum of damages

 sustained by the plaintiffs for demolition of said accommodation. It

 is further submitted that the defendant no. 1 again started raising

 the construction whereas the defendant no. 1 has no right to make

 any addition/alteration in the said accommodation after demolition.

 It is further submitted that the defendant no. 1 wants to invade the

 rights of the plaintiffs by raising the unauthorised and illegal

 construction in the said accommodation. It is further submitted

 that the defendant no. 1 has raised and pillars on the said

 accommodation after demolition of the tenanted accommodation

 and have also raised wall to the extent of 8 ft. height. The plaintiffs

 have requested the defendant to demolish the said

 accommodation and the same has been raised contrary to the rent

 agreement executed between the parties and also against the

 provision of transfer of property Act but the defendant has not

 accaded to the rent of the plaintiff. It is further submitted that the

 plaintiffs have no efficacious remedy except to file the present suit

 in order to protect their rights in the property. Hence, this suit is

 filed by the plaintiff. Suit No. 525/2012 Page No. 5 of 22 3. In his written statement the defendant No. 1 has contended that

 the suit is not maintainable as the plaintiffs have no locus standi to

 sue. They are neither the owners nor are they are the landlords of

 the replying defendant. There is no relationship of landlord and

 tenant between the plaintiffs and the replying defendant no. 1. The

 true facts are that the replying defendant is the owner in

 possession of the suit premises having purchased the same from

 one Sh. Narain Dass, S/o Sh. Baij Nath in the year 1996 after

 paying him a consideration amount of Rs. 3 lakh. Prior to 1996 he

 was the owner in possession of the premises and was residing in

 the same since last more than 30 years. The house bearing no.

 11103, Gali Swaranwali, Motiakhan was constructed by the

 abovesaid Sh. Narain Dass out of his own funds. He had also

 obtained electricity connection in the premises in the name of his

 wife in or about 1985 and had also obtained a water connection in

 his name being the owner in possession. The plaintiffs thus have

 no right, title or interest in the house in dispute either now or at any

 time prior thereto. They are complete strangers to the replying

 defendant. Thus, the suit merits dismissal and the same be

 dismissed with cost. It is further contended that the suit for

 injunction simplicitor is not maintainable. The plaintiffs are neither

 in possession nor have they any right, title or interest in the same. Suit No. 525/2012 Page No. 6 of 22 By filing the present false and frivolous suit they want to simply

 grab the house/premises in question by foul and frivolous means.

 Thus the suit merits dismissal and the same be dismissed. It is

 further submitted that the plaintiffs have not come to the court with

 clean hands. They have misstated and misrepresented the facts

 and have been able to obtain status quo order by

 misrepresentation. As a matter of act, the documents filed by the

 plaintiffs are absolutely forged and fabricated documents. The

 plaintiffs alleges themselves to be the owners of the house as well

 as they allege to be the landlords of the replying defendant no. 1.

 The true facts are that the plaintiffs have no interest whatsoever in

 respect of the suit premises. The defendant no. 1 is the owner in

 possession of the same having purchased the same after paying

 the consideration amount of Rs. 3 lakh to the previous owner Sh.

 Narain Dass. It was Sh. Narain Dass who had constructed the suit

 property about 30 years ago. Since then till 1996 he resided in the

 premises as an owner. The replying defendant no. 1 thereafter

 purchased the suit property from him and has thus become its

 absolute owner. The plaintiffs are neither the owner of the suit

 premises nor are they the landlords of the defendant no. 1. They

 have in order to grab the residential house of the replying

 defendant forged and fabricated the lease agreement, neither the Suit No. 525/2012 Page No. 7 of 22 replying defendant nor any of the witnesses, have put their

 signatures on the same. Along with the lease agreement the

 plaintiffs have also filed certain rent receipts which also do not

 bear the signatures of the replying defendant no. 1. The

 signatures appearing on the same are forged and fabricated and

 must have been appended by the plaintiffs themselves in order to

 create false evidence. No such rent note was ever executed

 between the parties to the suit at any time as the plaintiffs have no

 right, title or interest in the suit premises. Thus, the plaintiffs have

 misstated the true facts. A person who does not come to the court

 with clean hands is not at all entitled to any discretionary relief

 under the provisions of Specific Relief Act . Thus the suit merits

 dismissal and the same be dismissed with costs. It is further

 submitted that the suit is not maintainable as the same is barred

 under Section 41(h) of the Specific Relief Act. Without prejudice to

 the other contentions a bare reading of the allegations made in the

 plaint reveals that the plaintiffs are claiming themselves to be the

 landlords of the defendant. More efficacious remedy by way of a

 suit for eviction is available to the plaintiffs. As such the suit for

 injunction is not maintainable and is liable to be dismissed with

 cost. It is further submitted that the suit for injunction is not

 maintainable as in the garb of present suit the plaintiffs are seeking Suit No. 525/2012 Page No. 8 of 22 declaration to the effect that they be declared owners of the

 premises in question. This declaration cannot be granted in the

 present suit. The suit thus merits dismissal and the same be

 dismissed. The defendant has denied the plaintiffs let out two

 rooms situated on the ground floor of the premises bearing no.

 11103, Swaranwali Gali, Motiakhan to the replying defendant. As a

 matter of fact, the premises bearing no. 11103, Swaranwali Gali,

 Motiakhan was a single storey building which had been purchased

 by the replying defendant no. 1 from Sh. Narain Dass, Son of Sh.

 Baij Nath for a consideration of Rs. 3 lakh. At the time of its

 purchase this premises was having two rooms which too were in a

 dilapidated condition. The premises were purchased by the

 defendant no. 1 for the purposes of butchering pigs. As the

 plaintiffs are not the owners of the premises in question thus there

 is no question of letting out the same to the defendant no. 1. Even

 otherwise the fasity of the claim is apparent as the plaintiffs are

 admittedly Mohamdanas by relegion whereas the replying

 defendant no. 1 admittedly is in the business of butchering pigs.

 He has been butchering pigs in the premises in question since the

 time of its purchase till today. It is absolutely unimaginable that a

 Mohammadan would let out his premises for the purpose of

 butchering pigs or would allow his tenant to use his premises for Suit No. 525/2012 Page No. 9 of 22 butchering pigs. It is further submitted that the rent receipts

 allegedly being issued are all false and fabricated documents. The

 replying defendant no. 1 never paid any rent to the plaintiffs. He is

 not their tenant. Thus there is no question of paying any rent upto

 June 2001. As already stated the defendant no. 1 is the owner of

 the premises in suit. Further the defendant denied all the

 allegations of the plaintiff which are made in his plaint and prayed

 that the suit of the plaintiff be dismissed. 4. On the basis of pleadings of the parties, vide order dated

 22.4.2013, following issues were framed: PW1 has filed her evidence by way of affidavit Ex. P­1. The PW1

 has reiterated the facts mentioned in the plaint and also relied

 upon the document which are as under:­ i) Power of Attorney in favour of PW1 is Ex. PW1/1A. ii) Surrender Deed dt. 08­04­1996 is Ex. PW1/1. Suit No. 525/2012 Page No. 10 of 22 iii) Rent not dt. 03­06­1996 is Ex. PW1/2. iv) Site plan is Ex. PW1/3. v) Counter foil of rent receipt dt. 03­06­96, 07­12­98 and01­04­

 2001 are Ex. PW1/4 to PW1/6. vi) Carbon copy of the report dt. 26­06­2002 is Ex. PW1/7. vii) Rough proceedings undertaking by the local commissioner is

 Ex. PW1/8. The PW1 was also cross­examined by the Ld. counsel for the

 defendant. 6. Further the plaintiff has examined Mohd. Intzar as PW2 who has

 filed his evidence by way of affidavit Ex. P­2. The plaintiff has also

 examined Sh. Rajesh Kumar as PW2 who has brought the

 complaint already Ex. PW1/7 and also filed the report of SI Sh.

 Rajbir Singh Ex. PW3/1. PW2 & PW3 were also cross­examined

 by the Ld. counsel for the defendant. 7. On the other hand the defendant No. 1 has examined himself as

 DW1. DW1 has filed his evidence by way of affidavit Ex. D­1. In his

 evidence by way of affidavit the DW1 has reiterated the facts

 mentioned in his written statement and relied upon the following

 documents:­ i) The receipt dt. 30­04­1996 is Ex. DW1/1. ii) The site plan is Ex. DW1/2 Suit No. 525/2012 Page No. 11 of 22 The DW1 was also confronted with the photographs Ex. DW1/P1­

 P5 in the cross­examination. 8. Further the defendant has examined Sh. Narain Dass, Sh. Sohan

 Lal as DW2 & DW3 who have filed their evidence by way of

 affidavit Ex. DW2/A & DW3/1. The DW2 has relied upon the

 document which are as under:­ i) Original Bills for water connection is DW2/1. ii) Original Electricity Bill is Ex. DW2/2 & DW2/5

 The DW2 & DW3 were also cross­examined by the Ld. counsel for

 the plaintiff. 9. I have heard the counsel for both the parties and have gone

 through the record carefully. 10. My issue wise finding is as under:­ 11. Issue No. 1 Whether the plaintiff is owner of the suit

 property? OPP 

 This issue was deleted vide order dated 18/10/2003 by the Ld.

 Predecessor of this court. 12. Issue No. 2 Whether the defendant is owner of the suit

 property? OPD

 The burden to prove this issue was on the defendant no. 1.The

 case of the defendant no. 1 in the written statement is that the

 defendant no. 1 is the owner and in possession of the suit Suit No. 525/2012 Page No. 12 of 22 premises. He has purchased the same from SH. Narain Dass in

 the year 1996 after paying him a consideration amount of Rs. 3

 Lacs. Sh. Narain Dass constructed the suit premises out of his

 own funds and got the electricity connection in the name of his wife

 and water connection in his name. 13.The defendant no. 1 deposed as DW1 and stated in his cross­

 examination that at the time of execution of the receipt dated

 30/4/1996 Ex. Dw1/1 he did not see any document of ownership in

 favour of Sh. Narain Das but had seen water & electricity bills in

 favour of Sh. Narain Das. 14.Dw2 Sh. Narain Das in his crooss­examination deposed that he is

 not in possession of any document to show his ownership of the

 suit property. 15.The DW3 SH. Sohan Lal deposed in his cross­examination that

 he did not see any document of ownership in favour of Sh. Narain

 Das but had seen water & electricity bills in favour of Sh. Narain

 Das and on this basis he stated that Sh. Narain Das was the owner

 of the suit property. He also stated that he was told by the

 defendant no. 1 that defendant no. 1 had given a sum of Rs. 3

 Lacs to Sh. Narain Das on various occasions and thus DW3

 signed on the said receipt dated 30/4/1996 Ex. Dw1/1. No money

 was paid in the presence of DW3 at the time of execution of Suit No. 525/2012 Page No. 13 of 22 receipt dated 30/4/1996 Ex. Dw1/1. 16.From the aforesaid, it is manifest that when SH. Narain Dass has

 not been able to show his ownership of the suit property then the

 defendant no. 1 cannot be said to have purchased the ownership

 rights of SH. Narain Dass. The electricity and water connection

 bills can only show possession of a person but do not create any

 title in a person. The ownership of a property cannot be proved by

 mere oral testimony and the defendant no. 1 has failed to prove his

 ownership in this regard. In view of the foregoing discussion, the

 defendant no. 1 has failed to prove his case. This issue is

 accordingly decided in favour of the plaintiffs and against the

 defendant no. 1. 17. Issue No. 3 Whether defendant is tenant in the suit property?

 OPP

 The case of the plaintiffs in the plaint is that they had let out the

 suit premises to the defendant no. 1 on a monthly rent of Rs. 100/­

 exclusive of electricity and other charges vide agreement dated

 3/6/1996 Ex. PW1/2. 18.The plaintiff no. 1 entered the witness box as PW1 and stated in

 his examination­in­chief that the suit premises were earlier in

 possession of one SH. Baij Nath and after his demise it was in

 possession of his legal heirs Smt. Chandrawati and Sh. Narain Suit No. 525/2012 Page No. 14 of 22 Dass who surrendered the tenanted portion to the plaintiff no. 1 by

 virtue of the deed of surrender dated 8/4/1996 Ex. PW1/1. During

 his cross­examination he deposed that the land underneath the

 property in dispute belongs to Sh. Harpal Singh and the

 superstructure thereon have been constructed by his father Sh.

 Abdul Raseed. The said vacant land was let out to the father of

 plaintiff no. 1/PW1 by Sh. Harpal Singh. A written permission was

 granted by said SH. Harpal to his father for raising construction on

 the said land. He also stated that he resided in the suit property

 from 1980­1985 and a ration card was also issued at the said

 address. He stated that he does not know Sh. Baij Nath then later

 said he knows SH. Baij Nath who resided in the suit property from

 1975 to 1994­95. He denied the suggestion that the superstructure

 on vacant land was raised by Sh. Baij Nath. He admitted that the

 electricity and water connection in the suit property are in the

 name of SH. Baij Nath. 19.From the aforesaid it is manifest that the plaintiff claims to be the

 owner of the superstructure which as per his own pleadings have

 been demolished by the defendant no. 1. The plaintiff stated that

 he resided in the suit property from 1980­1985 and a ration card

 was also issued at the said address and that SH. Baij Nath resided

 in the suit property from 1975 to 1994­95. Clearly, there is a Suit No. 525/2012 Page No. 15 of 22 contradiction regarding the plaintiff ever being in possession of the

 suit property. No ration card or any other document has been

 brought on record to show that the plaintiff or his father was in

 possession of the suit property. Sh. Harpal Singh, who is the

 owner of the land underneath the superstructure, or his legal heirs

 have also not been examined by the plaintiff in support of his case.

 The plaintiff has neither examined any person nor brought anything

 on record to prove that the superstructure which stands

 demolished by the defendant no. 1 has been constructed by his

 father Sh. Abdul Raseed. The ownership of a

 property/superstructure cannot be proved by mere oral testimony

 and the plaintiff has failed to prove his ownership in this regard. In

 view of the foregoing discussion, the plaintiffs have failed to prove

 their case. 20.The case of the plaintiffs is that they had let out the suit premises

 to the defendant no. 1 on a monthly rent of Rs. 100/­ exclusive of

 electricity and other charges vide agreement dated 3/6/1996 Ex.

 PW1/2. 21.On the other hand the case of the defendant no. 1 is that the said

 agreement dated 3/6/1996 Ex. PW1/2 is a forged and a fabricated

 document and does not bear the signatures of the defendant no. 1. 22.DW2 Sh. Narain Dass has been shown as a witness to Suit No. 525/2012 Page No. 16 of 22 agreement dated 3/6/1996 Ex. PW1/2 but during cross­

 examination of Sh. Narain Dass as DW2 the said agreement

 dated 3/6/1996 Ex. PW1/2 was not put to him. He denied the

 suggestion that the plaintiffs had let out the suit property to the

 defendant no. 1.This raises an adverse inference regarding the

 story of the plaintiff regarding the rent agreement. Also, the

 surrender deed Ex. PW1/1 has not been put to Sh. Narain Dass

 who as per the plaintiffs had surrendered his tenany in favour of

 the plaintiffs. This raises an adverse inference regarding the story

 of the plaintiff regarding the surrender deed. Sh. Narain Dass

 deposed in his examination­in­chief that the plaintiff is not the

 owner of the property in question rather Sh. Narain Dass owned

 the same and at present it belongs to Sh. Titoo exclusively. But no

 suggestion has been put to the said witness against the same to

 him. Thus, clearly, the plaintiff has admitted the suggestion in this

 regard. In this regard, in M/s. Chunni Lal Dwarka Nath vs.

 Hartford Fire Insurance Co. Ltd. ­AIR 1958 Punj 440; it was held

 as under: 23.Further, when the defendant had denied his signatures on the

 agreement dated 3/6/1996 Ex. PW1/2 it was the duty of the plaintiff

 to bring on record an expert evidence to prove the signatures of

 the defendant thereon, which the plaintiffs have failed to do. In

 view of the foregoing discussion, the plaintiffs have failed to prove

 their case. This issue is accordingly decided in favour of the

 defendants and against the plaintiffs . 24. Issue No. 4 Whether the plaintiff is entitled to a decree of

 permanent & Mandatory injunction, as prayed for ? OPP

 In view of the foregoing discussion in issue nos. 2 and 3 and also

 considering that the plaintiff has not come to the court with clean

 hands in view of the contradictions discussed above, the plaintiffs

 are not entitled to the relief of permanent and mandatory injunction

 prayed a the same is barred under S. 41 (i) of the Specific Relief

 Act. 25.It is no more res integra that if a party does not come to the court

 with clean hands then it is not entitled to equitable relief of

 injunction. In Seema Arshad Zaheer and others v. Municipal

 Corpn. of Greater Mumbai and others ((2006) 5 SCC 282), the

 Hon'blE Apex Court held : Suit No. 525/2012 Page No. 19 of 22 (See also: AIR 2008 SUPREME COURT 2291 " Mandali

Ranganna v. T. Ramachandra "; Transmission Corpn. of A. P. Ltd. v.

Lanco Kondapalli Power (P) Ltd. ((2006) 1 SCC 540)

Thus, the maxim of clean hands must not be taken too widely. Equity

does not demand that its suitors shall have led blameless lives. The

maxim withholds assistance of Court where the wrongdoer is trying

to enjoy the fruits of his own wrong. It is a self­imposed ordinance

that closes the door of a Court of equity to one tainted with Suit No. 525/2012 Page No. 20 of 22 inequitableness or bad faith relative to the matter in which he seeks

relief. A party who seeks equity must bring on record the entire facts

of his case supported by documentary proof. The plaintiff herein has

failed to do so. 26.Further, It has been held in Executive Committee of Vaish

 Degree College, Shamli v. Lakshmi Narain­AIR 1976 SUPREME

 COURT 888 that the relief of injunction under the provisions of the Specific Relief Act is purely discretionary and the plaintiff cannot

 claim it as right. The relief has to be granted by the Court

 according to sound legal principles and ex debito justitiae. The

 Court has to administer justice between the parties and cannot

 convert itself into an instrument of injustice or an engine of

 oppression. In these circumstances, while exercising its

 discretionary powers the Court must keep in mind the well settled

 principles of justice and fair play and should exercise the discretion

 only if the ends of justice require it, for justice is not an object

 which can be administered in vacuum. Clearly, if a party supresses

 material facts from the court then the relief of injunction cannot be

 granted to that party. In view of the foregoing discussion, the plaintiffs have failed

 to prove their case. This issue is accordingly decided in favour of

 the defendants and against the plaintiffs . Suit No. 525/2012 Page No. 21 of 22 27.Relief: