The instant Original Application filed under Section 19 of the Administrative Tribunals Act, 1985 is directed against the charge-sheet dated 08.11.2012 relating to the proposed inquiry and the memorandum dated 19.02.2013 passed by the respondents rejecting the representation of the applicant dated 31.01.2013 providing him final opportunity to submit his written defence within a period of 10 days from the date of afore memorandum. 2.	The applicant vide this OA has prayed for the following reliefs:- 3.	The case of the applicant, briefly, stated is that he is an Indian Foreign Service Officer of 1985 Batch and all his batch mates have already been elevated to the post of Ambassador/High Commissioner in various countries. The applicant also claims to be a writer, poet and scholar of international fame having authored various internationally acclaimed books, poems etc.. 4.	On 20.05.2002, the applicant was posted as Director, ICCR, on deputation from Indian Foreign Services vide Office Order dated 20.05.2005 of the respondent organization. 5.	It is the claim of the applicant that he had not been assigned any financial or administrative powers in the ICCR. Subsequently one S.M. Matloob filed a Writ Petition bearing no. 2463/2006 before Honble High Court seeking mandamus to CBI to register a case against the persons responsible, including the then President of ICCR, who had got her photograph morphed with that of late Maulana Abul Kalm Azad, a veteran freedom fighter, in a book titled Journey of a Legend on Maulana Abul Kalam Azad published by ICCR. 6.	The applicant alleges that the purpose of this photograph getting morphed was to create a political legacy for the President of ICCR, namely, Najma Heptulla. The said S.M. Matloob, a self-proclaimed whistle blower made further allegations relating to corruption in the respondent organization. The CBI appeared before the Honble High Court of Delhi and apprised the court that they were already investigating the issues which were subject matter of the writ petition under consideration. 7.	On 23.06.2008, the CBI registered an FIR bearing No. RC-DAI-2008-A-0022 under section 120-B read with section 420 IPC and Section 13(2) read with 13(1)(d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 . It was alleged in the FIR that one Rakesh Kumar, the then Director General, ICCR and the applicant, the then Director, ICCR, New Delhi, entered into a criminal conspiracy with each other and also with a private firm while awarding two projects under the multimedia head, by abusing their official position as public servants, either by corrupt or illegal means by giving the work without following the tender procedures prescribed. The two accused officers awarded the contract in respect of two projects, namely (i) the Promotional Audio-Visual Clips for Websites for India on theatres of India and (ii) promotional Audio-Visual Clips for websites on folk and classical dances, both at a cost of Rs. 9 lakhs each to co-conspirator, one M/s. Anju Visuals New Delhi on 30.03.2005 on the basis of false and forged quotations managed by the accused persons. 8.	The inquiry revealed that no cost estimates as warranted under the procedure prescribed was prepared for executing the aforementioned project nor were open tenders invited through the advertisements as it has been required under the GFR Rules. The work has been decided on the basis of the 3 quotations received from three firms, namely, M/s Panalink Infotech, K-128, Ranjit Sadan, Mohammad Pur, Bhikaji Cama Place, New Delhi vide quotation dated 14.03.2005, M/s Anju Visuals, F-1183, Chittaranjan Park near Market No.2, New Delhi-110019 vide quotation dated 21.03.2005 and M/s Vans Media Services Pvt. Ltd., 234, Defence Colony, Flyover Complex, New Delhi-110024 vide quotations dated 15.03.2005. The quotations were called by the applicant vide his letter dated 10.03.2005 addressed to the three firms. 9.	The inquiry further brought to light that the work consisted of converting the tapes of various programmes available in the ICCR Library into Internet Ready Format, i.e., in the digitalized data and that M/s Anju Visuals, an Audio & Video Studio owned by one Deepak Gulati which quoted the rate as Rs.15,000 per capsule was awarded the work. The total cost of the project in the budget was shown to be Rs.9 lakhs. However, a total payment of Rs.10,90,980 was made to the party. The other two firms which submitted their quotations were M/s Panalink InfoTech at Rs.19,500 per capsule and M/s Vans Media Services Pvt. Ltd. at Rs. 18,000 per capsule. All the quotations were received by the applicant and handed over in open state to one Ms. Meenakshi Mishra, Programme Director, who prepared a comparative statement on 30.03.2008 on the direction of the applicant. The work was awarded to the co-conspirator M/s Anju Visuals by the said Rakesh Kumar on the recommendation of the applicant. 10.	It is the case of the applicant that the CBI after investigation failed to find any criminality in the allegations in the FIR and filed a closure report before the CBI court. However, contrary to the facts, the CBI while filing closure report, recommended departmental action against the said Rakesh Kumar and the applicant. Since the said Rakesh Kumar, the former Director General of the respondent organization had already superannuated, no proceedings were initiated against him. 11.	The applicant further submits that the CBI had registered another case bearing RC No. DAI-2008-A-0021 dated 23.06.2008 pursuant to the writ petition and filed charge-sheet against the said Rakesh Kumar and the applicant. The CBI court having heard the parties on the charge, returned a finding vide order dated 30.11.2011 that the CBI had not taken prior approval under mandatory section 6-A(I)(b) of Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, (DSPE Act, for short) and directed CBI to approach the Central Government to seek approval for investigation against the said Rakesh Kumar (A-1) and the applicant (A-2). The special CBI court was further pleased to direct that in the case, the approval was recorded, the matter was to be reinvestigated as per mandate of law. The special CBI court finding that the investigation had been made without prior approval of the competent authority, held the departmental proceedings conducted by the CBI as illegal and non est. 12.	The applicant submits that the FIR No.RC-DAI-2008-A-0022 was also registered in violation of mandatory provisions of 6-A(I)(B) of DSPE Act. Therefore, the CBI has committed gross error of law while investigating the case against the applicant and thereafter recommending departmental proceedings against him is in gross violation of mandatory provision of law and principles of natural justice and therefore, the recommendation of CBI is illegal and non est. 13.	It is the contention of the applicant that the Ministry of External Affairs, through its Joint Secretary (CNB) issued a charge-sheet/charge memorandum dated 08.11.2012 containing two charges, which are subject matter of aforesaid FIR No. RC-DAI-2008-A-0022. On 19.11.2012, the MEA issued an order thereby appointing one Gautam Bambawala, Jt. Secretary (EA), Ministry of External Affairs as inquiring authority to inquire into charges framed against the applicant. One Viraj Singh, Director (Projects), MEA was appointed as presenting officer by afore order dated 19.11.2012. On 21.12.2012, the applicant submitted a representation seeking quashing of the departmental proceeding to the Honble Minister, MEA and Honble Minister of Law & Justice. On 31.01.2013, the applicant sent another representation to the Foreign Secretary stating therein that CBI had not taken approval of Central Government under 6-A(1)(B) of DSPE Act and proposed inquiry was therefore bad in law. 14. On 19.02.2013, the applicant was conveyed rejection of his aforementioned representation dated 31.01.2013 and further that protection under Section 6-A(1)(B) of the DSPE Act was not available to him. 15.	The applicant thereafter submitted yet another representation to the Foreign Secretary on 25.02.2013 in reference to memorandum dated 19.02.103 issued by Joint Secretary (CNV). The Foreign Secretary was apprised that stand taken by him in rejecting the representation dated 31.01.2013 is contrary to judgment of the courts. 16.	On 28.02.2013, the applicant without prejudice to his representation dated 25.02.2013 to Foreign Secretary submitted his statement of defence stating therein that whatever he had done was in discharge of his official duties and on instructions of the competent authority in ICCR, namely Governing Body of ICCR, External Affairs Minister, President-ICCR, FS& Vice President, ICCR and DG (ICCR) in a manner consistent with CCS (Conduct) Rules, 3.2(ii), 3.2(iii) and 3.2 (iv). It is also stated in the reply that the main issue before Delhi High Court in the Writ Petition had been about photo morphing and the applicant has been victimized so as to distract the public and media attention from the main issue. In the meantime, a new inquiry officer was appointed in place of the said Gautam Bambawala to inquire into the matter. The impugned order dated 19.02.2013 passed by the Foreign Secretary, MEA, is illegal in view of the rulings of the CBI court and, therefore, the memorandum dated 25.02.2013 is also illegal and liable to be set aside. 17.	The applicant has adopted the following principal grounds in support of his OA:- 18.	The respondents have filed a counter affidavit stating that major penalty proceedings were initiated against the applicant vide Charge Memo dated 8.11.2012 on account of the following Articles of Charges:- 19.	The respondents further submit that the applicant does not enjoy the protection of Section 6A(1)(b) of DSPE Act, as he is an officer in the rank of Director and thus, the action of the respondents is guided by the inputs received from the DoP&T as also that of legal affairs. 20.	It is also the case of the respondents that though no charge-sheet was filed by the CBI in the designated court, departmental proceedings have been initiated against the applicant and the same have been initiated on the basis of appraisal of evidence. In this regard, the degree of proof required in a departmental proceeding is different from that in a criminal case and acquittal in a criminal case does not imply acquittal in departmental proceedings ipso facto as the purpose of the two are different. 21.	The respondents submit that no reliance can be placed upon the case of Neeraj Singh (supra), as the facts were different and the department had taken seven years to reach the conclusion that the departmental proceeding should be launched against the applicant in that case. 22.	The applicant has submitted rejoinder followed by written synopsis. It is alleged that no misconduct has been committed by the applicant, as he was not having any financial and administrative powers. It is further alleged that the grounds adopted in the OA have not specifically been denied by the respondents. The applicant further alleges that the charge-sheet is arbitrary and in violation of Article 14 of the Constitution. 23.	We have carefully examined the pleadings of the parties as also the documents submitted by them and also listened the oral submissions made by their respective counsels. To our mind, the following issues need to be adjudicated in this case:- 24.	In respect of the first issue, we find that this issue has been examined in a number of decisions by this Tribunal. In the case of K.V.M. Abdunnafih Vs. Union of India (OA No. 2055/2010) decided on 24.12.2014, this very Bench of the Tribunal examined the issue and relying upon the cases of S.R. Tewari Vs. Union Of India & Anr. Vs. R.K. Singh & Anr. 2013 ( 6) SCC 602, GAIL India Vs. Gujarat State Petroleum Corporation [2014 (1) SCC 329], Arun Kumar Agrawal v. Union of India and others (2013) 7 SCC 1, Bihar State Government Secondary Teacher Association Vs. Bihar State Education Service Association, 2012( 11) SCALE 291 and Union of India Vs. Upendra Singh , (1994)3 SCC 357., H.B. Gandhi Excise and Taxation Officer-cum-Assessing Authority Kamal Vs. Gopinath and Sons, 1992 Supp.(2) SCC 312, held that the scope of judicial intervention in the departmental proceedings is indeed limited and circumscribed by the pronouncements by the Honble Supreme Court and Honble High Court from time to time. For the sake of greater clarity, paragraph 8 of the decision is being extracted as below:- 25. In yet another case i.e. Secretary, Ministry of Defence & Ors. Vs. Prabhash Chander Mirdha, (2012) 11 SCC 565, the Supreme Court after having examined 29 of its previous decisions, including some of the decisions like State of Madhya Prakesh Vs. Bani Singh & Anr. JT 1992 (2) SC 54 and Transport Commissioner Madras Vs. A.Radhakrishan Muthy, JT 1994(7) SC 744, clearly laid down that the disciplinary proceeding or the charge-sheet cannot be quashed at an initial stage, as it would be a premature stage to deal with the issues. Proceedings are liable to be quashed on the grounds that they have been initiated at a belated stage or could not be concluded within a reasonable period unless the delay causes prejudice to the delinquent employee. There is no rigid yardstick laid down for judging the quantum of delay and it has been left to the good judgment of the court/Tribunal to determine the same for which factors like the gravity of the charges, the circumstances under which the alleged misdemeanor has taken place, its impact on the organization and the society, the factors leading to the delay etc have to be considered. 26.	Here, delay is not one of the grounds which has been pleaded. The Honble Supreme Court has held that instead gravity of alleged misconduct is a relevant factor to be taken into consideration while quashing the proceedings. This issue has been further examined in Pala Singh Tanck versus Union of India [OA No.1111/2011 decided on 05.01.2015]. For the sake of clarity, we would like to revisit the scope of judicial intervention in a reason based matrix:- 27.	Now, we come to the second of the issues that whether the prosecution of the applicant is on account of malafide. We have already noted that the applicant has made serious allegations against one Shyam Saran, who wanted to protect Dr. Najma Haptullah, the then President of the respondent organization, in a case of morphing of photograph of Dr. Maulana Abul Kalam Azad. However, we find that mere allegations are not sufficient to establish mala fide and proof of mala fide hangs heavy upon the party which alleges the same, and in absence of such proof, accusations remain mere accusations. In State of Punjab & Another versus Gurdial Singh & Others [(1980) 2 SCC 471] while discussing that what is malafide and how it is to be proved, held that malafide is easy to allege but difficult to prove, relevant para whereof is extracted herein below for easy reference:- 28.	Further, this Tribunal has gone into the question of malafide in the matter of R.K. Rai Vs. Union of India & Ors. (OA No. 3132/2012 decided on 12.01.2015) and held that the applicant had alleged malafide but had done nothing to discharge the onus of proof and hence, the plea of malafide would not become a basis for a decision. 29. In Ravi Yashwant Bhoir versus District Collector, Raigad [2012 (4) SCC 407], the Honble Supreme Court took into account 47 decisions in the previous cases and held as under:- 30.	Now we finally come to the issue that whether the instant case is covered by the decision of the Tribunal in Neeraj Singh. In the case of Neeraj Singhs (supra), we note that the issues were entirely different. Here, there was a delay of about 7 years only to decide whether any case is established against the applicant. The alleged acts are supposed to have taken place in the year 1998. The department spent a very long period to decide whether the charges were getting established or not. In the meantime, the applicant had been afforded as many as 3 promotions and the debate was that whether there could be a case against the applicant or a warning would suffice. There was an abrupt change at the end and the officer was ordered to be departmentally proceeded against; whereas all the notings and examination within the department pointed to the contrary. These conditions are not attracted in the instant case. 31. In the case of S. K. Taqi vs. Cement Corporation of India [WP(C) NO.7748/2010 decided on 31.1.2013], the Honble High Court of Delhi had examined a similar issue and held that an employee might not have been proceeded against in criminal case but there is no reason to hold that he could also not have been departmentally proceeded against. For the sake of clarity, we extract as under:- 32.	Now we come to the last of the issues as to what relief, if any, can be provided to the applicant. In answering this query, we take note of our findings on the previous issues. We find that the scope of judicial intervention is in a very narrow focus and is confined to only three issues, i.e., whether the charge-sheet has been issued by the incompetent authority; whether it does not bear out misconduct; and whether it is hit by mala fide. We find none of the conditions occurring in the present case. Though malafide has been alleged against Dr. Najma Heptullah, former President of the respondent organization and one Shyam Saran, former Secretary, however, neither has been impleaded as party respondent nor are they present before us. We further find that no proof has been adduced on behalf of the applicant to support the charges of mala fide which fall flat in the absence thereof. 33.	We further find that there is no bar to conduct departmental proceeding against the delinquent employee even after the criminal case on the similar lines may have been dismissed. To the contrary, we find that the allegations are grave and the evidence has been carefully marshalled. Moreover, it is not even the case of the applicant that he has been acquitted in the criminal case. The learned CBI court vide its order dated 30.11.2011 having noticed that necessary approval of the Central Government, as required under Section 6-A of the DSPE Act, had since not been taken, directed to keep the charge-sheet in abeyance and gave liberty to CBI to approach the Central Government seeking approval of investigation against the applicant and his co-accused. The learned court further directed that in the event approval is accorded, the matter shall be re-investigated in accordance with law and the material so gathered would be placed before the CBI court for further proceeding in the matter. Therefore, the criminal proceeding is yet to be finalized. This necessitates in the interest of public probity that the departmental proceeding should be gone through. We have also taken into consideration that the applicant is a senior officer of the Indian Foreign Service and is liable to represent the nation abroad. Therefore, it is all the more necessary that the department should carefully assess the charges leveled against him and send him out on foreign posting only when he has been exonerated in respect of all of them. Therefore, we find no merit in the contention of the applicant and dismiss the OA. However, taking into account the fact that a considerable time has elapsed, we direct the respondents to conclude the departmental proceedings subject to the cooperation of the applicant, positively within a period of six months from production of certified copy of this order. 34.	With the above order, the OA is dismissed but without costs.