1. Petitioner, through his daughter, Ansab Niyaz, has assailed his

 detention order passed by the District Magistrate, Pulwama (the detaining

 authority) vide Order No. 38/DMP/PSA/22 dated 19.05.2022 (the impugned

 order), whereby the petitioner-Niyaz Ahmad Wani S/O Ab. Aziz Wani R/O

 New Colony, Pulwama ("the detenue") has been put under preventive

 detention with a view to prevent him from acting in any manner prejudicial

 to the maintenance of the public order. 2. Before adverting to the grounds of challenge, it is necessary to notice

 the material facts on the basis of which the detaining authority has derived

 its subjective satisfaction for placing the detenue under the preventive

 detention. 3. The grounds of detention which has been made basis by the detaianig

 authority for the preventive detention of the detenue is the Police report

 dated 18.05.2022, reveals that the detenue is involved in motivating and

WP(Crl) No. 390/2022 Page 1 2 provoking the innocent youth, young and tender-aged boys for resorting to

 anti-social activities and that he is an active member of the gang "TRATH

 GOLA" which is headed by Abdul Hamid Dar R/O Tujan Pulwama along

 with some other associates and is active in many Districts of the Valley.

 After the information was received by the police about the illegal activities

 of the detenue, FIR No. 123/2022 under Sections 420 , 120-B IPC was

 registered and the detenue was apprehended in connection with the aforesaid

 FIR and was shown to be on Police Remand. The detenue is stated to be an

 active member of the gang since 2012, which was dishonestly and

 fraudulently extorting money worth Crores of rupees from gullible people

 on the pretext of paying returns in double and triple under the " TRATH

 GOLA" a scam. It is also stated that the detenue had lured the people into

 the trap and the amount so collected was used in illegal, illegitimate and

 illicit activities. It is further alleged that the detenue along with his other

 associates hatched a conspiracy to loot the general masses and persuaded

 many to sold their properties to invest in "TRATH GOLA" the scam, and

 that, the detaining authority was of the opinion that remaining at large of the

 detenue would be detrimental to the maintenance of peace and public order. 4. It is on the basis of these allegations, the detaining authority arrived

 at subjective satisfaction to detain the detenue to deter him from acting in

 any manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public order and as such by

 invoking Section 8 of the J&K Public Safety Act passed the impugned

 detention order against the detenue and directed his lodgment in District Jail

 Bhaderwah. 5. The respondents in their counter affidavit insisted that after

 considering the material by the competent authority the activities of the

WP(Crl) No. 390/2022 Page 2 3 detenue were found to be prejudicial to the maintenance of public order and

 there were compelling reasons to detain the detenue under Sction 8 of the

 J&K Public Safety Act, 1978. 6. Mr. Asif Maqbool, Dy. AG, has provided scanned copy of the

 detention record. 7. The impugned order of detention has been challenged by the

 petitioner inter-alia on the following grounds: existent and, therefore, no prudent peson can make an effective
 and purposeful representation. 8. Perusal of the grounds of detention demonstrates that the detenue has

 been put under preventive detention for his involvement in FIR

 No.123/2022. The allegations reflected in the aforesaid FIR, even if taken to

 be true on its face value, do not constitute an act having potential to disturb

 the public order. WP(Crl) No. 390/2022 Page 3 4 9. This Court has already dealt with the issue raised in the instant

 petition in WP (Crl) No. 325/2022 decided on 20.09.2022, and has observed

 as under:- 10. Recently in Banka Sneha Sheela v. State of Telangana and ors ,

 (2021) 9 SCC 415, Hon‟ble the Supreme Court was confronted with a case

 of preventive detention ordered by the State of Telangana on almost similar

 grounds. There were as many as five FIRs all registered against the detenue

WP(Crl) No. 390/2022 Page 4 5 therein under Sections 420 , 406 and 506 IPC and in all the FIRs the detenue

 was granted anticipatory bail. The detention was ordered primarily on the

 ground that remaining at large of the detenue would be detrimental to public

 order. The Hon‟ble the Supreme Court, in paragraphs No. 14, 15 and 19 has

 held thus:- 11. Earlier Hon‟ble the Supreme Court in the case of Rekha v. State of T.

 N, (2011) 5 SCC 244 also discussed the nature and scope of preventive

 detention. Paragraphs No. 29 and 30 of the judgment are relevant and,

 therefore, set out below:- 12. Heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the record. I am of

 the view that the impugned detention order cannot sustain in law. 13. This case is squarely covered by the Banka Sneha Sheela (supra).

 The allegations in the FIR registered against the detenue may be a problem

WP(Crl) No. 390/2022 Page 6 7 of law and order but would not certainly come within the purview of the

 term "public order‟. There is nothing in the grounds of detention which

 would demonstrate that his activities, on the basis of which the FIR for

 cheating and fraud came to be registered against him, had an impact of

 disturbing even the tempo of life of the community or had the effect of

 affecting the public at large. The offences with which the detenue has been

 charged in the FIR are substantive offences and the ordinary law is

 sufficient to deal with the detenue, if he is ultimately found guilty of the

 allegations, leveled against him in the FIR. The apprehension of the

 detaining authority that the detenue was likely to get bail and in that event,

 his remaining at large would be detrimental to the maintenance of peace and

 public order, cannot be basis of putting the detenue under preventive

 detention. The detaining authority as also the other functionaries of the U. T

 are well within their rights to oppose the bail and, if granted, take remedial

 measures. The simplicitor case of cheating and fraud, without having wider

 ramifications, cannot be made the basis of issuing the detention order in the

 name of maintaining the public order. 14. For the foregoing reasons, this petition is allowed. The impugned

 order of detention is quashed and the detenue is directed to be released from

 the preventive detention forthwith, provided he is not required in any other

 case(s). (Moksha Khajuri Kazmi)
 Judge. Srinagar
19.10.2022
Abdul Rashid, PS
 Whether the order is reportable Yes/No
 Whether the order is speaking Yes/No

WP(Crl) No. 390/2022 Page 7