M.R. SHAH, J. In the light of the conflicting views of the different Benches

 of varying strength, more particularly in the cases of Shri

 Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia and others v. State of Punjab (1980) 2 SCC Signature Not Verified 565; Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre v. State of Maharashtra Digitally signed by NARENDRA PRASAD Date: 2020.01.29 16:54:35 IST Reason: (2011) 1 SCC 694; Bhadresh Bipinbhai Sheth v. State of Gujarat 1 (2016) 1 SCC 152 on one side and in the cases of Salauddin

Abdulsamad Shaikh v. State of Maharashtra (1996) 1 SCC 667,

subsequently followed in the case of K.L. Verma v. State and

another (1998) 9 SCC 348; Sunita Devi v. State of Bihar (2005) 1

SCC 608; Nirmal Jeet Kaur v. State of M.P. (2004) 7 SCC 558; HDFC Bank Limited v. J.J. Mannan (2010) 1 SCC 679; and Satpal

Singh v. State of Punjab (2018) 4 SCC 303, the following questions

are referred for consideration by a larger Bench: 2. Shri Harin P. Raval, learned Senior Advocate appearing as

Amicus Curiae relying upon the decision of this Court in the case

of Balchand Jain v. State of M.P. (1976) 4 SCC 572 has submitted

that though the expression “anticipatory bail” has not been

defined in the Code, as observed by this Court in the aforesaid

decision, “anticipatory bail” means “bail in anticipation of arrest”. It is submitted that in the aforesaid decision, this Court has

further observed that the expression “anticipatory bail” is a 2 misnomer inasmuch as it is not as if bail is presently granted by

the Court in anticipation of arrest. It is submitted that when a

competent court grants “anticipatory bail”, it makes an order that

in the event of arrest, a person shall be released on bail. It is

submitted that there is no question of release on bail unless a

person is arrested and, therefore, it is only on arrest that the

order granting “anticipatory bail” becomes operative. 2.1. Shri Raval, learned Amicus Curiae has taken us to the

historical perspective on the inclusion of Section 438 of the Cr. P.C. It is submitted that on the recommendation of the Law

Commission of India in its 41st Report dated 24.09.1969, the

Parliament introduced a new provision in the form of

“anticipatory bail” under Section 438 of the Cr.P.C. It is

submitted that the Law Commission of India in its 41 st Report

stated in paragraph 39.9 the justification for power to grant

“anticipatory bail”. It is submitted that as per the Law

Commission the necessity for granting “anticipatory bail” arises

mainly because sometimes influential persons try to implicate

their rivals in false cases for the purpose of disgracing them or for

other purposes by getting them detained in jail for some days. It 3 is submitted that the Law Commission further observed that with

the accentuation of political rivalry, this tendency is showing

signs of steady increase. Apart from false cases, where there are

reasonable grounds for holding that a person accused of an

offence is not likely to abscond, or otherwise misuse his liberty,

while on bail, there seems to be no justification to require him to

first submit to custody, remain in prison for some days, and then

apply for bail. 2.2 It is further submitted that power to grant “anticipatory bail”

vests only in the High Courts or the Courts of Sessions. It is

submitted that the “anticipatory bail” can be applied at different

stages. It is submitted that even in a case where no FIR is lodged

and a person is apprehending his arrest in case the FIR is lodged , in that case , he can apply for “anticipatory bail” and after notice

to the Public Prosecutor the Court can grant “anticipatory bail”. It is submitted that even in a case where the FIR is lodged but the

investigation has not yet begun, i.e., pre investigation stage, the

“anticipatory bail” can be applied. It is submitted that

“anticipatory bail” can also be applied at post investigation stage. It is submitted that after exercising the discretion judiciously, the 4 High Court or the Sessions Court grants “anticipatory bail” and

that too after hearing the Public Prosecutor. It is submitted that

therefore once the bail is granted in anticipation of the arrest,

there is no reason to limit the same till the summon is issued by

the Court and/or there is no reason to limit the period of bail in

anticipation granted. 2.3 Shri Harin P. Raval, learned Senior Advocate appearing as

Amicus Curiae has further submitted that in the case of

Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia (supra), a Constitution Bench of this Court

has observed and held that the facility which Section 438, Cr. P.C. affords is generally referred to as “anticipatory bail”, an

expression which was used by the Law Commission in its 41 st

Report. Neither the section nor its marginal note so describes it

but, the expression “anticipatory bail” is a convenient mode of

conveying that it is possible to apply for bail in anticipation of

arrest. It is submitted that any order of bail can, of course, be

effective only from the date of arrest because to grant bail as

stated in Wharton’s Law Lexicon, is to “set at liberty a person

arrested or imprisoned, on security being taken for his

appearance”. It is submitted that thus, bail is basically release 5 from restraint, more particularly, release from the custody of the

police. It is submitted that the act of arrest directly affects

freedom of movement of the person arrested by the police, and

speaking generally, an order of bail gives back to the accused that

freedom on condition that he will appear to take his trial. Taking

a surety, bonds and such other modalities are the means by

which an assurance is secured from the accused that though he

has been released on bail, he will present himself at the trial of

the offence or offences of which he is charged and for which he

was arrested. It is submitted that the distinction between an

ordinary order of bail and an order of anticipatory bail is that

whereas the former is granted after arrest and therefore means

release from the custody of the police, the latter is granted in

anticipation of arrest and is therefore effective at the very moment

of arrest. It is submitted that in other words, unlike a post­arrest

order of bail, it is a pre­arrest legal process which directs that if

the person in whose favour it is issued is thereafter arrested on

the accusation in respect of which the direction is issued, he shall

be released on bail. 2.4 Shri Harin P. Raval, learned Senior Advocate appearing as

Amicus Curiae has further submitted that however the core

questions before this Court are, (a) what is the life or currency of

an anticipatory bail once the same has been granted by the

competent court?; (b) once an order granting anticipatory bail has

been passed, whether the said anticipatory bail only survives till

the stage of filing of charge sheet/challan/final report or whether

it subsists during the entire duration of trial?. It is further

submitted by Shri Raval that one another question may arise,

namely, in a case where if new incriminating materials are found

during the course of investigation, whether they could be relied

on by the Court to cancel anticipatory bail which has already

been granted? 2.5 It is submitted that, as such, the aforesaid questions are not

res integra in view of the decision of the Constitution Bench of

this Court in the case of Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia (supra). It is

submitted that in the case of Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia (supra), a

Constitution Bench of this Court has held that there is no limit to

the currency of an order of anticipatory bail. The Court is vested

with absolute discretion to direct the duration of the trial which 7 can vary from a few weeks to even such duration until charge

sheet has been filed and which may also extend to the entire

duration of the trial. It is submitted that it is further observed

that the sole consideration must be with a view to balance the

two competing interests, viz., protecting the liberty of the accused

and the sovereign power of the police to conduct a fair

investigation. Shri Raval, learned Amicus Curiae has heavily

relied upon the observations made by the Constitution Bench of

this Court in paragraphs 42 & 43 of Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia (supra). 2.6 It is further submitted by Shri Raval that in the subsequent

decision of this Court in the case of Siddharam Satlingappa

Mhetre (supra), this Court has taken the view that the order of

anticipatory bail once granted ordinarily subsists during the

entire duration of the trial. It is submitted that it is further

observed that by that the power of the Sessions Court or that of

the High Court to re­visit its order granting anticipatory bail is

curtailed, in case circumstances exist or new exigencies arise

which merit interference. Heavy reliance is placed upon

observations made by this Court in the case of Siddharam 8 Satlingappa Mhetre (supra) in paragraphs 94, 95, 98, 100, 122

and 123. It is submitted by Shri Raval that however, the judgment

rendered in Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre (supra) particularly in

paragraphs 95, 108, 122 and 123 does not take into

consideration the observations of the Constitution Bench in Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia (supra) in paragraphs 42 & 43, which

clearly cull out that the discretion of the Sessions Court or a High

Court is wide enough to limit as well as specify the duration of

the anticipatory bail taking into account all relevant factors which

may persuade the discretion of the Court. It is submitted that Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre (supra) proceeded to hold that the

anticipatory bail shall subsists during the entire currency of the

trial and specifically rejected the notion that anticipatory bail

could be for a limited time as well, on the expiry of which the

accused must surrender and apply for a regular bail. It is

submitted that in view of the conflicting approach, the decision

rendered in the case of Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre (supra)

particularly the observations made in paragraphs 95, 108, 122 &

123 need to be revisited. 2.7 It is further submitted by Shri Raval, learned Amicus Curiae

that the discretion of the Sessions Court and the High Court is

absolute, and no limitations whatsoever have been imposed by

the legislature. It is submitted that the discretion therefore can

be exercised to even limit the duration of the anticipatory bail, in

order to ensure that the accused also cooperates with the

investigation, or that relevant discoveries to secure incriminating

material could be made under Section 27 of the Evidence Act, or

in view of new incriminating circumstances which establish

complicity of the accused. It is submitted that therefore the view

taken by this Court in Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre (supra) that

the anticipatory bail to subsist for the entire duration of the trial,

curtails the discretion of the Sessions Court or the High Court to

limit such duration of anticipatory bail. It is submitted that such

an interpretation is in absolute contravention of the law declared

by the Constitution Bench in the case of Gurbaksh Singh Sibia (supra). 2.8 Making the above submissions and relying upon the

aforesaid decisions of the Constitution Bench of this Court, Shri

Raval, learned Amicus Curiae has concluded as under: 3. Shri K.V. Vishwanathan, learned Senior Advocate who

was also requested to assist us as an Amicus Curiae has

submitted that the exercise of power under Section 438 is

exactly like the exercise of power under Sections 437 and 439 13 of the Cr.P.C. It is submitted therefore, the pre­arrest bail

granted in anticipation of arrest under Section 438 ought to

operate like any other order granting bail till an order of

conviction or till an affirmative direction is passed under Section 439(2) of the Cr.P.C. It is submitted that therefore

the law laid down by this Court in the cases of Gurbaksh

Singh Sibbia (supra) and Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre (supra) lay down the correct law. It is submitted that the

exceptions carved out in Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia (supra)

particularly in paras 19, 42 and 43 are well within the

scheme of the Code. 3.1 It is further submitted by Shri Vishwanathan, learned

Amicus Curiae that the power of arrest of the police is under Section 41 of the Cr.P.C. It is submitted that this Section has

two essential parts. One, relating to offences in which the

maximum punishment can extend to imprisonment for seven

years. Second, relating to offences in which the maximum

punishment can extent to imprisonment above seven years or

death penalty. It is submitted that though they have different

conditions and thresholds, in both cases it is clear from a 14 bare reading of the section that the power of arrest cannot be

exercised in every FIR that is registered under Section 154 Cr.P.C. It is submitted that this power is circumscribed by

the conditions laid down in this Section. Moreover, this

principle that the power of arrest is not required to be

exercised in every case was recognised in the cases of Joginder Kumar v. State of U.P. (1994) 4 SCC 260 (para 20); Lalitha Kumari v. State of U.P. (2014) 2 SCC 1 (paras 107­ 108); and Arnesh Kumar v. State of Bihar (2014) 8 SCC 273

(paras 5 and 6). It is submitted that, in fact, this Court in the

case of M.C. Abraham v. State of Maharashtra (2003) 2 SCC

649 (para 15) has held that it was not mandatory for the

police to arrest a person only because his/her anticipatory

bail had been rejected. 3.2 It is further submitted by Shri Vishwanathan, learned

Amicus Curiae that the power of arrest is then further

circumscribed by Section 438 Cr.P.C. It is submitted that as

recognized by the Law Commission, there are cases where the

power of arrest is not required or allowed to be exercised. It

is submitted that exercising power of arrest in such cases 15 would be a grave violation of a person’s right and liberty. It is

submitted that such exercise of power would amount to

misuse of Section 41 . It is submitted that the check on the

power of arrest and custody provided by Sections 437 or 439

is limited as the check is only post facto. It is submitted that

by then the person arrested has already suffered the trauma

and humiliation of arrest. 3.3 It is further submitted that to safeguard this situation,

Section 438 was introduced so as to provide for judicial

intervention in necessary cases. It is submitted that this

judicial intervention is to ensure that the power of arrest is

regulated under the scrutiny of the courts. It is submitted

that to strike a further balance between the power of arrest

and the rights of the accused, this power was specifically

given to the Court of Session and the High Court so as to

ensure that this judicial intervention is done at the

supervisory level and not at the magisterial level. It is

submitted that it is in this light that the two questions raised

in the present reference need to be addressed. 3.4 Taking us to the recommendations in the 41 st Report of

the Law Commission and the observations made in the

Report of the Committee on Reforms of the Criminal Justice

system, headed by Dr. Justice V.S. Malimath, it is submitted

by Shri Vishwanathan that Section 438 is a check on the

power of arrest of the police. It is submitted that as stated in

the above Law Commission Report, it is a check not only

against false cases, but also in cases where the need to arrest

does not arise. 3.5 It is further submitted that even otherwise a bare

reading of the Section shows that there is nothing in the

language of the Section which goes to show that the pre­

arrest bail granted under Section 438 has to be time­bound. It is submitted that the position is the same as in Sections

437 and 439. It is submitted that at this stage Section 438(3)

is relevant to be taken into consideration. It is submitted

that there are two very important aspects in Section 438(3) Cr.P.C. which are relevant to be considered to understand the

scheme of the Code, viz., (a) a person in whose favour a pre­

arrest bail order has been made under Section 438 has first 17 to be arrested. Such a person is then released on bail on the

basis of the pre­arrest bail order. For such release the person

has to comply with the requirement of Section 441 of giving a

bond or surety; and (b) where the magistrate taking

cognizance under Section 204 is of the view that a warrant is

required to be issued at the first instance, such magistrate is

only empowered to issue only a bailable warrant and not a

non­bailable warrant. This curtailment of power of the

magistrate clearly shows the intent of the legislature that a

person who has been granted bail under Section 438 ought

not to be arrested at the stage of cognizance because of the

said pre­arrest bail order. It is submitted that in light of this

express provision, no other interpretation is possible to be

given to the said section. It is submitted that the second

question referred herein is squarely covered by this sub­

section. 3.6 It is further submitted by Shri Vishwanathan, learned

Amicus Curiae that the order passed under Section 438,

which is in the nature of a pre­arrest bail order, is however

subject to the power granted to the Court of Session and the 18 High Court under Section 439(2) , Cr.P.C., which gives power

to the Court of Session or the High Court to direct the arrest

of the accused at any time. It is submitted that this ensures

that through judicial intervention the balance between the

two competing principles can again be revisited if the need

arises. It is submitted that the only difference is that the

power of arrest in these cases is exercised only after judicial

scrutiny. It is submitted that in any case and as observed by

this Court in Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia (supra), the orders once

passed under Section 438 will continue till the trial unless in

exercise of judicial discretion the Sessions Court or the High

Court limits the same, looking to the facts and circumstances

of the case and the stages at which the power under Section

438 Cr.P.C. is exercised. It is submitted that the Code

presupposes that the order passed under Sections 438 or 439

are not or cannot be temporary time bound. It is submitted

that a person in whose favour an order of pre­arrest bail is

passed can be taken into custody thereafter only when a

specific direction is passed under Section 439(2) of the Code. 3.7 Shri Vishwanathan, learned Amicus Curiae, while

making the aforesaid submissions and relying upon the

aforesaid decisions of this Court, has concluded that the pre­

arrest bail granted under Section 438 of the Code is exactly

like the orders of bail passed under Sections 437 and 439 of

the Code; the Code does not contemplate any power in the

hands of the Courts to pass time­bound orders under Section

438 for good reason; on the other hand, the investigating

agency can approach the Court under Section 439(2) and in

the event of the police making out a case, the Court has all

the powers to direct the accused to be taken into custody. 4. Shri Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General of India

has heavily relied upon paras 42 and 43 of Gurbaksh Singh

Sibbia (supra) and has submitted that as observed and held

by the Constitution Bench of this Court that the Court can in

a given case and for justifiable reasons limit the period of

anticipatory bail. It is submitted that this Court in the case

of Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre (supra) has misread the

judgment in Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia (supra) to a limited 20 extent. It is submitted that to the extent Siddharam

Satlingappa Mhetre (supra) states that “in view of the clear

declaration of the law by the Constitution Bench, the life of

the order under Section 438 Cr.P.C. granting bail cannot be

curtailed”, may not be correct law in light of the observations

made in para 42 by the Constitution Bench in Gurbaksh

Singh Sibbia (supra). It is submitted that the Constitution

Bench in Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia (supra) has not categorically

barred anticipatory bail order for limited time period, and at

the same time, merely stated that “normal rule” should be not

to limit the time period. It is submitted that at the same

time, the decision of this Court in the case of Salauddin

Abdulsamad Shaikh (supra), to the extent it states that the

order of the anticipatory bail has to be necessarily limited in

time frame is against the decision of the Constitution Bench

in Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia (supra), which specifically states

that the “normal rule” to not limit the order of anticipatory

bail. It is submitted that therefore the extreme views on both

side in Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre (supra) and Salauddin

Abdulsamad Shaikh (supra), to that limited extent, do not 21 consider the observations in Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia (supra),

in the correct light. It is submitted that in a case, with

justifiable reasons, to be recorded in writing, indicating

reasons to deviate from the “normal rule”, the anticipatory

bail can be granted for a limited time period, the life of which,

would extinguish accordingly. 4.1 It is further submitted by Shri Tushar Mehta, learned

Solicitor General of India that so far as the second reference,

namely, whether the life of an anticipatory bail should end at

the time and stage when the accused is summoned by the

court is concerned, it is submitted that there cannot be a

straightjacket formula. It is submitted that in a case wherein

the anticipatory bail is granted for a limited time period, the

life would extinguish accordingly. It is submitted that in a

case wherein the anticipatory bail is granted without

conditions, the life may terminate upon the circumstances

warranting cancellation of such bail or such interference. It

is submitted that the statute does not contemplate an

automatic cancellation upon filing of charge sheet and

therefore the judgment of this Court in the case of HDFC 22 Bank Limited (supra), to that extent, may not lay down the

correct law. It is submitted that, at the same time, the

Hon’ble Courts have deprecated the practice of blanket orders

of bail/anticipatory bail. It is submitted that there are

eventualities arising in every case may be different and

therefore are required to be dealt with accordingly, in the

facts and circumstances of each case. It is submitted that

even while granting the anticipatory bail, the right of the

investigating agency to seek custodial interrogation cannot be

hampered mechanically. 5. Relying upon the decisions of this Court in the cases of HDFC Bank Ltd. (supra) and Satpal Singh (supra), it is

submitted by Shri Vikramjit Banerjee, learned Additional

Solicitor General of India that as held by this Court in the

aforesaid decisions, the purpose of Section 438 is providing

protection only during the process of investigation and the

accused should seek regular bail upon submission of the

charge sheet against him from the court where entire

material is placed. It is submitted that in any case grant of

the pre­arrest bail under Section 438 Cr.P.C. shall not affect 23 the right of the investigating agency to seek custodial

interrogation and in conducting further investigation. 5.1 It is further submitted by Shri Banerjee, learned ASG

that as held by this Court in the case of Uday Mohanlal

Acharya v. State of Maharashtra (2001) 5 SCC 453, that even

when accused is found to be on bail at the stage of committal

proceedings, the committing Magistrate has the power to

cancel the bail and commit him to custody, if he considers it

necessary to do so. It is submitted that as observed and held

by this Court in the aforesaid decisions that an interpretation

that an order of protection from arrest under Section 438 will

remain operational till the end of the trial will effectively make Section 209 (b) of Cr.P.C. otiose. 5.2 At the end, Shri Banerjee, learned ASG has submitted

that there should necessarily be conditions imposed in

granting a pre­arrest bail order and it cannot be a blanket

order; in terms of the Cr.P.C . under Section 209(b) and

Section 240(2), the accused can be remanded to custody by

the Magistrate during the stage of inquiry, if he considers it

necessary to do so at the stage of the submission of the final 24 report/ charge sheet or committal proceedings. It is

submitted that it is imperative therefore that if the accused

takes pre­arrest bail during the earlier state of criminal

investigation, the power of the Magistrate under the said

provisions of Cr.P.C . should be maintained including the

power of the Magistrate to send the accused to the custody. 6. Shri C.S.N. Mohan Rao, learned Advocate appearing on

behalf of respondent no.2 has vehemently submitted that the

Constitution Bench judgment in Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia (supra) has dealt with various aspects of anticipatory bail and

preserved the discretionary power granted by the legislature

on the courts while considering application for anticipatory

bail. It is submitted that the Constitution Bench has refused

to impose any limitation or conditions, which are not imposed

by the Parliament. 6.1 It is further submitted by the learned Counsel

appearing on behalf of respondent no.2 that the decision of

the Constitution Bench regarding duration of anticipatory

bail is not called in question by any judgment. It is

submitted that there is a clear conflict regarding the duration 25 of anticipatory bail as enunciated by the Constitution Bench

and the order in Salauddin Abdulsamad Shaikh (supra),

which was followed in number of subsequent judgments. It is

submitted that the decision of this Court in Salauddin

Abdulsamad Shaikh (supra) and subsequent judgments

following Salauddin Abdulsamad Shaikh (supra) are all per

incuriam. 6.2 It is further submitted by the learned Counsel

appearing on behalf of respondent no.2 that as a normal rule,

it is not required to limit the duration of anticipatory bail. It

is submitted that however, court while granting anticipatory

bail may, keeping in view the peculiar facts and

circumstances of the case, limit the duration of anticipatory

bail. It is submitted that the life of anticipatory bail would

not end on filing of charge sheet. 6.3 It is further submitted by the learned counsel

appearing on behalf of respondent no.2 that both the

questions of law framed for consideration by the larger Bench

does not arise for consideration. It is submitted that

considering the elaborate reasons given by the Constitution 26 Bench in not putting any fetters or limitations on the

discretionary power of a court to grant anticipatory bail and

as there is no ambiguity in the judgment of the Constitution

Bench, this Court may reiterate the judgment of the

Constitution Bench in Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia (supra). 7. We have heard the learned counsel for the respective

parties at length. In the light of the conflicting views of the different Benches

of varying strength, the following questions are referred for

consideration by a larger Bench: “(1) Whether the protection granted to a person
 under Section 438 Cr.P.C. should be limited to a
 fixed period so as to enable the person to surrender
 before the Trial Court and seek regular bail. (2) Whether the life of an anticipatory bail should
 end at the time and stage when the accused is
 summoned by the court.”

7.1 At the outset, it is required to be noted that as such

the expression “anticipatory bail” has not been defined in the

Code. As observed by this Court in the case of Balchand Jain (supra), “anticipatory bail” means “bail in anticipation of 27 arrest”. As held by this Court, the expression “anticipatory

bail” is a misnomer inasmuch as it is not as if bail is

presently granted by the Court in anticipation of arrest. An

application for “anticipatory bail” in anticipation of arrest

could be moved by the accused at a stage before an FIR is

filed or at a stage when FIR is registered but the charge sheet

has not been filed and the investigation is in progress or at a

stage after the investigation is concluded. Power to grant

“anticipatory bail” under Section 438 of the Cr.P.C. vests only

with the Court of Sessions or the High Court. Therefore,

ultimately it is for the concerned court to consider the

application for “anticipatory bail” and while granting the

“anticipatory bail” it is ultimately for the concerned court to

impose conditions including the limited period of

“anticipatory bail”, depends upon the stages at which the

application for anticipatory bail is moved. A person in whose

favour a pre­arrest bail order is made under Section 438 of

the Cr.P.C. has to be arrested. However, once there is an

order of pre­arrest bail/anticipatory bail, as and when he is

arrested he has to be released on bail. Otherwise, there is no

distinction or difference between the pre­arrest bail order 28 under Section 438 and the bail order under Section 437 & 439 of the Cr.P.C. The only difference between the pre­arrest

bail order under Section 438 and the bail order under

Sections 437 and 439 is the stages at which the bail order is

passed. The bail order under Section 438 of the Cr.P.C. is

prior to his arrest and in anticipation of his arrest and the

order of bail under Sections 437 and 439 is after a person is

arrested. A bare reading of Section 438 of the Cr.P.C. shows

that there is nothing in the language of the Section which

goes to show that the pre­arrest bail granted under Section

438 has to be time bound. The position is the same as in

Section 437 and Section 439 of the Cr.P.C. 7.2 While considering the issues referred to a larger Bench,

referred to hereinabove, the decision of the Constitution

Bench of this Court in Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia (supra) is

required to be referred to and considered in detail. The

matter before the Constitution Bench in the case of Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia (supra) was arising out of the decision

of the Full Bench of the Punjab and Haryana High Court. The High Court rejected the application for bail after 29 summarising, what according to it was the true legal position,

thus,

 “(1) The power under Section 438 , Criminal
 Procedure Code, is of an extraordinary
 character and must be exercised sparingly in
 exceptional cases only; (2) Neither Section 438 nor any other provision of
 the Code authorises the grant of blanket
 anticipatory bail for offences not yet
 committed or with regard to accusations not
 so far levelled. (3) The said power is not unguided or uncanalised
 but all the limitations imposed in the
 preceding Section 437, are implicit therein
 and must be read into Section 438. (4) In addition to the limitations mentioned in
 Section 437, the petitioner must make out a
 special case for the exercise of the power to
 grant anticipatory bail. (5) Where a legitimate case for the remand of the
 offender to the police custody under Section
 167(2) can be made out by the investigating
 agency or a reasonable claim to secure
 incriminating material from information likely
 to be received from the offender under Section
 27 of the Evidence Act can be made out, the
 power under Section 438 should not be
 exercised. (6) The discretion under Section 438 cannot be
 exercised with regard to offences punishable
 with death or imprisonment for life unless the
 court at that very stage is satisfied that such
 a charge appears to be false or groundless. (7) The larger interest of the public and State
 demand that in serious cases like economic 30 offences involving blatant corruption at the
 higher rungs of the executive and political
 power, the discretion under Section 438 of
 the Code should not be exercised; and
 (8) Mere general allegations of mala fides in the
 petition are inadequate. The court must be
 satisfied on materials before it that the
 allegations of mala fides are substantial and
 the accusation appears to be false and
 groundless.”

7.3 After considering the scheme of “anticipatory bail”

under Section 438 , Cr.P.C. and while not agreeing with the

Full Bench, this Court has observed and held as under: The provisions of Sections 437 and 439 furnished a
 convenient model for the legislature to copy while enacting
 Section 438. If it has not done so and has departed from a 31 pattern which could easily be adopted with the necessary
modifications, it would be wrong to refuse to give to the
departure its full effect by assuming that it was not
intended to serve any particular or specific purpose. The
departure, in our opinion, was made advisedly and
purposefully: Advisedly, at least in part, because of the
41st Report of the Law Commission which, while pointing
out the necessity of introducing a provision in the Code
enabling the High Court and the Court of Session to grant
anticipatory bail, said in para 39.9 that it had “considered
carefully the question of laying down in the statute certain
conditions under which alone anticipatory bail could be
granted” but had come to the conclusion that the question
of granting such bail should be left “to the discretion of the
court” and ought not to be fettered by the statutory
provision itself, since the discretion was being conferred
upon superior courts which were expected to exercise it
judicially. The legislature conferred a wide discretion on
the High Court and the Court of Session to grant
anticipatory bail because it evidently felt, firstly, that it
would be difficult to enumerate the conditions under which
anticipatory bail should or should not be granted and
secondly, because the intention was to allow the higher
courts in the echelon a somewhat free hand in the grant of
relief in the nature of anticipatory bail. That is why,
departing from the terms of Sections 437 and 439, Section
438(1) uses the language that the High Court or the Court
of Session “may, if it thinks fit” direct that the applicant be
released on bail. Sub­section (2) of Section 438 is a further
and clearer manifestation of the same legislative intent to
confer a wide discretionary power to grant anticipatory
bail. It provides that the High Court or the Court of Session,
while issuing a direction for the grant of anticipatory bail,
“may include such conditions in such directions in the light
of the facts of the particular case, as it may think fit”,
including the conditions which are set out in clauses (i) to (iv) of sub­section (2). The proof of legislative intent can best
be found in the language which the legislature uses. Ambiguities can undoubtedly be resolved by resort to
extraneous aids but words, as wide and explicit as have
been used in Section 438, must be given their full effect,
especially when to refuse to do so will result in undue
impairment of the freedom of the individual and the
presumption of innocence. It has to be borne in mind that
anticipatory bail is sought when there is a mere
apprehension of arrest on the accusation that the applicant
has committed a non­ bailable offence. A person who has
yet to lose his freedom by being arrested asks for freedom
in the event of arrest. That is the stage at which it is
imperative to protect his freedom, insofar as one may, and
to give full play to the presumption that he is innocent. In
fact, the stage at which anticipatory bail if generally sought
brings about its striking dissimilarity with the situation in
which a person who is arrested for the commission of a
non­bailable offence asks for bail. In the latter situation,
adequate data is available to the court, or can be called for
by it, in the light of which it can grant or refuse relief and
while granting it, modify it by the imposition of all or any of
the conditions mentioned in Section 437. 13. This is not to say that anticipatory bail, if
granted, must be granted without the imposition of any
conditions. That will be plainly contrary to the very terms of
Section 438. Though sub­section (1) of that section says
that the court “may, if it thinks fit” issue the necessary
direction for bail, sub­section (2) confers on the court the
power to include such conditions in the direction as it may
think fit in the light of the facts of the particular case,
including the conditions mentioned in clauses (i) to (iv) of
that sub­section. The controversy therefore is not whether
the court has the power to impose conditions while granting
anticipatory bail. It clearly and expressly has that power.
The true question is whether by a process of construction,
the amplitude of judicial discretion which is given to the
High Court and the Court of Session, to impose such
conditions as they may think fit while granting anticipatory 33 bail, should be cut down by reading into the statute
conditions which are not to be found therein, like those
evolved by the High Court or canvassed by the learned
Additional Solicitor General. Our answer, clearly and
emphatically, is in the negative. The High Court and the
Court of Session to whom the application for anticipatory
bail is made ought to be left free in the exercise of their
judicial discretion to grant bail if they consider it fit so to do
on the particular facts and circumstances of the case and
on such conditions as the case may warrant. Similarly,
they must be left free to refuse bail if the circumstances of
the case so warrant, on considerations similar to those
mentioned in Section 437 or which are generally
considered to be relevant under Section 439 of the Code. xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx 18. According to the sixth proposition framed by the
High Court, the discretion under Section 438 cannot be
exercised in regard to offences punishable with death or
imprisonment for life unless, the court at the stage of
granting anticipatory bail, is satisfied that such a charge
appears to be false or groundless. Now, Section 438
confers on the High Court and the Court of Session the
power to grant anticipatory bail if the applicant has reason
to believe that he may be arrested on an accusation of
having committed “a non­bailable offence”. We see no
warrant for reading into this provision the conditions
subject to which bail can be granted under Section 437(1)
of the Code. That section, while conferring the power to
grant bail in cases of non­bailable offences, provides by
way of an exception that a person accused or suspected of
the commission of a non­bailable offence “shall not be so
released” if there appear to be reasonable grounds for
believing that he has been guilty of an offence punishable
with death or imprisonment for life. If it was intended that
the exception contained in Section 437(1) should govern the
grant of relief under Section 438(1), nothing would have 34 been easier for the legislature than to introduce into the
latter section a similar provision. We have already pointed
out the basic distinction between these two sections.
Section 437 applies only after a person, who is alleged to
have committed a non­bailable offence, is arrested or
detained without warrant or appears or is brought before a
court. Section 438 applies before the arrest is made and, in
fact, one of the pre­conditions of its application is that the
person, who applies for relief under it, must be able to
show that he has reason to believe that “he may be
arrested”, which plainly means that he is not yet arrested.
The nexus which this distinction bears with the grant or
refusal of bail is that in cases falling under Section 437,
there is some concrete data on the basis of which it is
possible to show that there appear to be reasonable
grounds for believing that the applicant has been guilty of
an offence punishable with death or imprisonment for life.
In cases falling under Section 438 that stage is still to
arrive and, in the generality of cases thereunder, it would
be premature and indeed difficult to predicate that there
are or are not reasonable grounds for so believing. The
foundation of the belief spoken of in Section 437(1), by
reason of which the court cannot release the applicant on
bail is, normally, the credibility of the allegations contained
in the first information report. In the majority of cases
falling under Section 438, that data will be lacking for
forming the requisite belief. If at all the conditions
mentioned in Section 437 are to be read into the provisions
of Section 438, the transplantation shall have to be done
without amputation. That is to say, on the reasoning of the
High Court, Section 438(1) shall have to be read as
containing the clause that the applicant “shall not” be
released on bail “if there appear reasonable grounds for
believing that he has been guilty of an offence punishable
with death or imprisonment for life”. In this process one
shall have overlooked that whereas, the power under
Section 438(1) can be exercised if the High Court or the
Court of Session “thinks fit” to do so, Section 437(1) does 35 not confer the power to grant bail in the same wide terms
The expression “if it thinks fit”, which occurs in Section
438(1) in relation to the power of the High Court or the
Court of Session, is conspicuously absent in Section 437(1).
We see no valid reason for rewriting Section 438 with a
view, not to expanding the scope and ambit of the
discretion conferred on the High Court and the Court of
Session but, for the purpose of limiting it. Accordingly, we
are unable to endorse the view of the High Court that
anticipatory bail cannot be granted in respect of offences
like criminal breach of trust for the mere reason that the
punishment provided therefor is imprisonment for life.
Circumstances may broadly justify the grant of bail in such
cases too, though of course, the court is free to refuse
anticipatory bail in any case if there is material before it
justifying such refusal. 19. A great deal has been said by the High Court on
the fifth proposition framed by it, according to which, inter
alia, the power under Section 438 should not be exercised
if the investigating agency can make a reasonable claim
that it can secure incriminating material from information
likely to be received from the offender under Section 27 of
the Evidence Act. According to the High Court, it is the right
and the duty of the police to investigate into offences
brought to their notice and therefore, courts should be
careful not to exercise their powers in a manner which is
calculated to cause interference therewith. ….. An order of
anticipatory bail does not in any way, directly or indirectly,
take away from the police their right to investigate into
charges made or to be made against the person released
on bail. In fact, two of the usual conditions incorporated in
a direction issued under Section 438(1) are those
recommended in sub­section (2)(i) and (ii) which require the
applicant to cooperate with the police and to assure that he
shall not tamper with the witnesses during and after the
investigation. While granting relief under Section 438(1),
appropriate conditions can be imposed under Section 36 438(2) so as to ensure an uninterrupted investigation. One
of such conditions can even be that in the event of the
police making out a case of a likely discovery under Section
27 of the Evidence Act, the person released on bail shall be
liable to be taken in police custody for facilitating the
discovery. Besides, if and when the occasion arises, it may
be possible for the prosecution to claim the benefit of Section 27 of the Evidence Act in regard to a discovery of
facts made in pursuance of information supplied by a
person released on bail by invoking the principle stated by
this Court in State of U.P. v. Deoman Upadhyaya [AIR 1960
SC 1125 : (1961) 1 SCR 14, 26 : 1960 Cri LJ 1504] to the
effect that when a person not in custody approaches a
police officer investigating an offence and offers to give
information leading to the discovery of a fact, having a
bearing on the charge which may be made against him, he
may appropriately be deemed so have surrendered himself
to the police. The broad foundation of this rule is stated to
be that Section 46 of the Code of Criminal Procedure does
not contemplate any formality before a person can be said
to be taken in custody: submission to the custody by word
or action by a person is sufficient. For similar reasons, we
are unable to agree that anticipatory bail should be refused
if a legitimate case for the remand of the offender to the
police custody under Section 167(2) of the Code is made
out by the investigating agency. 20. It is unnecessary to consider the third
proposition of the High Court in any great details because
we have already indicated that there is no justification for
reading into Section 438 the limitations mentioned in
Section 437. The High Court says that such limitations are
implicit in Section 438 but, with respect, no such
implications arise or can be read into that section. The
plenitude of the section must be given its full play. 21. The High Court says in its fourth proposition that
in addition to the limitations mentioned in Section 437, the 37 petitioner must make out a “special case” for the exercise of
the power to grant anticipatory bail. This, virtually, reduces
the salutary power conferred by Section 438 to a dead
letter. In its anxiety, otherwise just, to show that the power
conferred by Section 438 is not “unguided or uncanalised”,
the High Court has subjected that power to a restraint
which will have the effect of making the power utterly
unguided. To say that the applicant must make out a
“special case” for the exercise of the power to grant
anticipatory bail is really to say nothing. The applicant has
undoubtedly to make out a case for the grant of
anticipatory bail. But one cannot go further and say that he
must make out a “special case”. We do not see why the
provisions of Section 438 should be suspected as
containing something volatile or incendiary, which needs to
be handled with the greatest care and caution imaginable.
A wise exercise of judicial power inevitably takes care of
the evil consequences which are likely to flow out of its
intemperate use. Every kind of judicial discretion, whatever
may be the nature of the matter in regard to which it is
required to be exercised, has to be used with due care and
caution. In fact, an awareness of the context in which the
discretion is required to be exercised and of the reasonably
foreseeable consequences of its use, is the hallmark of a
prudent exercise of judicial discretion. One ought not to
make a bugbear of the power to grant anticipatory bail. 22. By proposition No. 1 the High Court says that the
power conferred by Section 438 is “of an extraordinary
character and must be exercised sparingly in exceptional
cases only”. It may perhaps be right to describe the power
as of an extraordinary character because ordinarily the
bail is applied for under Section 437 or Section 439. These
sections deal with the power to grant or refuse bail to a
person who is in the custody of the police and that is the
ordinary situation in which bail is generally applied for.
But this does not justify the conclusion that the power must
be exercised in exceptional cases only, because it is of an
extraordinary character. We will really be saying once too
often that all discretion has to be exercised with care and
circumspection, depending on circumstances justifying its
exercise. It is unnecessary to travel beyond it and subject 38 the wide power conferred by the legislature to a rigorous
code of self­imposed limitations. xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx 25. ….. We agree, with respect, that the power
conferred by Section 438 is of an extraordinary character in
the sense indicated above, namely, that it is not ordinarily
resorted to like the power conferred by Sections 437 and 439. We also agree that the power to grant anticipatory
bail should be exercised with due care and circumspection
but beyond that, it is not possible to agree with the
observations made in Balchand Jain [(1976) 4 SCC 572 : This flows from the very language of the section which, as
discussed above, requires the applicant to show that he
has “reason to believe” that he may be arrested. A belief
can be said to be founded on reasonable grounds only if
there is something tangible to go by on the basis of which it
can be said that the applicant's apprehension that he may
be arrested is genuine. That is why, normally, a direction
should not issue under Section 438(1) to the effect that the
applicant shall be released on bail “whenever arrested for
whichever offence whatsoever”. That is what is meant by a
‘blanket order’ of anticipatory bail, an order which serves
as a blanket to cover or protect any and every kind of
allegedly unlawful activity, in fact any eventuality, likely or
unlikely regarding which, no concrete information can 41 possibly be had. The rationale of a direction under Section
438(1) is the belief of the applicant founded on reasonable
grounds that he may be arrested for a non­bailable offence.
It is unrealistic to expect the applicant to draw up his
application with the meticulousness of a pleading in a civil
case and such is not requirement of the section. But
specific events and facts must be disclosed by the
applicant in order to enable the court to judge of the
reasonableness of his belief, the existence of which is the
sine qua non of the exercise of power conferred by the
section. 41. Apart from the fact that the very language of the
statute compels this construction, there is an important
principle involved in the insistence that facts, on the basis
of which a direction under Section 438(1) is sought, must
be clear and specific, not vague and general. It is only by
the observance of that principle that a possible conflict
between the right of an individual to his liberty and the
right of the police to investigate into crimes reported to them
can be avoided. A blanket order of anticipatory bail is
bound to cause serious interference with both the right and
the duty of the police in the matter of investigation because,
regardless of what kind of offence is alleged to have been
committed by the applicant and when, an order of bail
which comprehends allegedly unlawful activity of any
description whatsoever, will prevent the police from
arresting the applicant even if he commits, say, a murder in
the presence of the public. Such an order can then become
a charter of lawlessness and a weapon to stifle prompt
investigation into offences which could not possibly be
predicated when the order was passed. Therefore, the
court which grants anticipatory bail must take care to
specify the offence or offences in respect of which alone the
order will be effective. The power should not be exercised
in a vacuum. 42. There was some discussion before us on certain
minor modalities regarding the passing of bail orders under
Section 438(1). Can an order of bail be passed under the
section without notice to the Public Prosecutor? It can be.
But notice should issue to the Public Prosecutor or the
Government Advocate forthwith and the question of bail
should be re­examined in the light of the respective
contentions of the parties. The ad interim order too must
conform to the requirements of the section and suitable
conditions should be imposed on the applicant even at that
stage. Should the operation of an order passed under
Section 438(1) be limited in point of time? Not necessarily.
The court may, if there are reasons for doing so, limit the
operation of the order to a short period until after the filing
of an FIR in respect of the matter covered by the order. The
applicant may in such cases be directed to obtain an order
of bail under Section 437 or 439 of the Code within a
reasonably short period after the filing of the FIR as
aforesaid. But this need not be followed as an invariable
rule. The normal rule should be not to limit the
operation of the order in relation to a period of time. 43. During the last couple of years this Court, while
dealing with appeals against orders passed by various
High Courts, has granted anticipatory bail to many a
person by imposing conditions set out in Section 438(2) (i), (ii) and (iii). The court has, in addition, directed in most of
those cases that (a) the applicant should surrender himself
to the police for a brief period if a discovery is to be made
under Section 27 of the Evidence Act or that he should be
deemed to have surrendered himself if such a discovery is
to be made. In certain exceptional cases, the court has, in
view of the material placed before it, directed that the order
of anticipatory bail will remain in operation only for a week
or so until after the filing of the FIR in respect of matters
covered by the order. These orders, on the whole, have
worked satisfactorily, causing the least inconvenience to
the individuals concerned and least interference with the 43 investigational rights of the police. The court has attempted
 through those orders to strike a balance between the
 individual's right to personal freedom and the
 investigational rights of the police. The appellants who
 were refused anticipatory bail by various courts have long
 since been released by this Court under Section 438(1) of
 the Code.”

7.4 The aforesaid decision of the Constitution Bench in the

case of Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia (supra) holds the field for

number of years and the same has been followed by all the

Courts in the country. While granting anticipatory bail,

normally following conditions are imposed by the

court/courts which as such are in consonance with the

decision of the Constitution Bench in the case of Gurbaksh

Singh Sibbia (supra) and Section 438(2) read with Section

437(3) of the Cr.P.C: If breach of any of the above conditions is committed, the

order of anticipatory bail would be cancelled. It would be

open to the Investigating Officer to file an application for

remand, and the concerned Magistrate would decide it on

merits, without influenced by the grant of anticipatory bail

order. However, in the case of Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre (supra), despite the specific observations by the Constitution

Bench of this Court in Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia (supra) that

the normal rule should be not to limit the operation of the

order in relation to a period of time, in other words in an

appropriate case and looking to the facts and circumstances

of the case and the stage at which the pre­arrest bail

application was made, the court concerned can limit the

operation of the order in relation to a period of time, on

absolute misreading of the judgment in the case of Gurbaksh

Singh Sibbia (supra) and just contrary to the observations

made in paragraphs 42 and 43, an absolute proposition of

law is laid down that the life of the order under Section 438,

Cr. P.C. granting bail cannot be curtailed. Despite the clear

cut observations made by the Constitution Bench in Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia (supra) made in paragraphs 42 and

43, in the case of Salauddin Abdulsamad Shaikh (supra), a

three Judge Bench of this Court has observed and held that

the order of “anticipatory bail” has to be necessarily limit in

time frame. In many cases subsequently the decision in the 47 case of Salauddin Abdulsamad Shaikh (supra) has been

followed, despite the specific observations made by the

Constitution Bench in Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia (supra) made in

paragraphs 42 and 43 which, as such, are just contrary to

the view taken in subsequent decisions in the cases of Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre (supra) and Salauddin

Abdulsamad Shaikh (supra). At this stage, it is required to be

noted that in the case of Salauddin Abdulsamad Shaikh (supra), this Court had not at all considered the decision of

the Constitution Bench in the case of Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia (supra). It cannot be disputed that the decision of this Court

in the case of Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia (supra) is a Constitution

Bench decision which is binding unless it is upset by a larger

Bench than the Constitution Bench. Therefore, considering

the decision of the Constitution Bench of this Court in the

case of Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia (supra) and the relevant

observations, reproduced hereinabove, the decision of this

Court in the case of Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre (supra) to

the extent it takes the view that the life of the order under Section 438 Cr.P.C. cannot be curtailed is not a correct law in 48 light of the observations made by the Constitution Bench in

paragraphs 42 and 43 in Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia (supra). The

decision of this Court in the case of Salauddin Abdulsamad

Shaikh (supra) which takes an extreme view that the order of

“anticipatory bail” has to be necessarily limited in time frame

is also not a good law and is against and just contrary to the

decision of this Court in the case of Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia (supra), which is a Constitution Bench judgment. 7.5 Thus, considering the observations made by the

Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of Gurbaksh

Singh Sibbia (supra), the court may, if there are reasons for

doing so, limit the operation of the order to a short period

only after filing of an FIR in respect of the matter covered by

order and the applicant may in such case be directed to

obtain an order of bail under Sections 437 or 439 of the Code

within a reasonable short period after the filing of the FIR. The Constitution Bench has further observed that the same

need not be followed as an invariable rule. It is further

observed and held that normal rule should be not to limit the

operation of the order in relation to a period of time. We are 49 of the opinion that the conditions can be imposed by the

concerned court while granting pre­arrest bail order including

limiting the operation of the order in relation to a period of

time if the circumstances so warrant, more particularly the

stage at which the “anticipatory bail” application is moved,

namely, whether the same is at the stage before the FIR is

filed or at the stage when the FIR is filed and the investigation

is in progress or at the stage when the investigation is

complete and the charge sheet is filed. However, as observed

hereinabove, the normal rule should be not to limit the order

in relation to a period of time. SPECIAL LEAVE PETITION (CRIMINAL) NO (s). 7281-7282 OF 2017

SUSHILA AGGARWAL & ORS. ...APPELLANT(S)

 VERSUS

STATE (NCT OF DELHI) & ANR. ...RESPONDENT(S)

 JUDGMENT

S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J. 1. I have gone through the reasoning and conclusions of Justice M.R. Shah. I am
in agreement with his judgment. However, I am supplementing the conclusions
arrived at by Shah, J with this separate judgment since I am of the view that while
there is no disagreement on the essential reasoning, some aspects need to be
discussed, in addition. 2. The following questions have been referred to this larger bench of five judges: Background 3. First, a background. The judgment of a five-judge bench of this court in Shri
Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia and others v. State of Punjab 1 considered the available views
on the provision for anticipatory bail (a concept not in existence till the enactment of
the Criminal Procedure Code , 1973- hereafter “Cr. PC” or “the Code”). Section 438
enables two classes of courts- a Court of Sessions and High Court, to issue directions
not to arrest a person, who apprehends arrest. Sibbia comprehensively dealt with the
history of the provision, the felt need which resulted in its enactment, the observations
and comments of the 41st Report of the Law Commission, which had suggested
introduction of such a provision, and the efficacy of prevailing practices. In brief, 1 1980 (2) SCC 565 51 Sibbia (which this court would analyze in greater detail later) held that the power (to
grant anticipatory bail) is cast in wide terms and should not be hedged in through
narrow judicial interpretation. At the same time, the larger bench (of five judges,
which decided Sibbia) ruled that in given individual cases, courts could impose
conditions which were appropriate, having regard to the circumstances. 4. This reference is necessitated, because in the present case, a bench of three
judges, on 15th May 2018, noticed conflicting views regarding interpretation of the
provision- Section 438. The court noticed, prima facie, that one line of judgments
( Salauddin Abdulsamad Shaikh v. State of Maharashtra2 ; K.L. Verma v. State & Anr3 ; Sunita Devi v. State of Bihar & Anr4 ; Adri Dharan Das v. State of West Bengal5 ; Nirmal Jeet Kaur v. State of M.P. & Anr 6; HDFC Bank Limited v. J.J. Mannan7 ; Satpal
Singh v. the State of Punjab8 and Naresh Kumar Yadav v Ravindra Kumar 9 held that
anticipatory bail orders should invariably contain conditions, either with reference to
time, or occurrence of an event, such as filing of a charge sheet, in criminal
proceedings, that would define its time of operation, after which the individual
concerned would have to secure regular bail, under Section 439 Cr. PC. The court also
noticed, that on the other hand, the observations in Sibbia did not suggest such an
inflexible approach. The second line of cases included Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre
v. State of Maharashtra & Ors 10 and Bhadresh Bipinbhai Sheth v. State of Gujarat &
Anr11 ; these held that no conditions ought to be imposed by the court, whilst granting
anticipatory bail, which was to inure and protect the individual indefinitely- even 2 (1996 (1) SCC 667) 3 1998 (9) SCC 348 4 2005 (1) SCC 608 5 2005 (4) SCC 303 6 2004 (7) SCC 558 7 2010 (1) SCC 679 8 2018 SCC Online (SC 415 9 2008 (1) SCC 632 10 2011 (1) SCC 694 11 2016 (1) SCC 152 52 when charges were framed in a given criminal case, leading to trial- till the end of the
trial. 5. The court, in Sibbia, elaborately dealt with the background which led to the
introduction of the provision for anticipatory bail. It took note of the forty first report
of the Law Commission, on whose recommendations the provision was introduced.
Sibbia traced the history of the provision, from the stage of the recommendation, to
the draft bill and later its enactment, observing as follows: We recommend the acceptance of this suggestion. We are further of the view
 that this special power should be conferred only on the High Court and the
 Court of Session, and that the order should take effect at the time of arrest
 or thereafter. In order to settle the details of this suggestion, the following draft of a, new
 section is placed for consideration : But we found that it may not be practicable to exhaustively enumerate those
conditions; and moreover, the laying down of such conditions may be
construed as prejudging (partially at any rate) the whole case. Hence we
would leave it to the discretion, of the; court and prefer not to fetter such
discretion in the statutory provision itself. Superior Courts will,
undoubtedly, exercise their discretion properly, and not make any
observations in the order granting anticipatory bail which will have a
tendency to prejudice the fair trial of the accused.’ 5. The suggestion made by the Law Commission was, in principle, accepted
by the Central Government which introduced Clause 447 in the Draft Bill
of the CrPC , 1970 with a view to conferring an express power on the High
Court and the Court of Session to grant anticipatory bail. That Clause read
thus : and if a Magistrate taking cognizance of such offence decides that
 a warrant should issue in the first instance against that person, he
 shall issue a bailable warrant in conformity with the direction of
 the Court under Sub-section (1).’ 6. The Law Commission, in paragraph 31 of its 48th Report (1972), made the
 following comments on the aforesaid Clause. ‘31. The Bill introduces a provision for the grant of anticipatory
 bail. This is substantially in accordance with the
 recommendation made by the previous Commission. We agree
 that this would be a useful addition, though we must add that it is
 in very exceptional cases that such a power should be exercised. We are further of the view that in order to ensure that the provision is
 not put to abuse at the instance of unscrupulous petitioners, the final order
 should be made only after notice to the Public Prosecutor. The initial order
 should only be an interim one. Further, the relevant section should make it
 clear that the direction can be issued only for reasons to be recorded, and if
 the court is satisfied that such a direction is necessary in the interests of
 justice. It will also be convenient to provide that notice of the interim order as well
 as of the final orders will be given to the Superintendent of Police
 forthwith.’

 Clause 447 of the Draft Bill of 1970 was enacted with certain modifications
 and became Section 438 of the CrPC, 1973 which we have extracted at the
 outset of this judgment.” 6. The context of Sibbia was the correctness of a decision of the Full Bench of the
Punjab and Haryana High Court, which restrictively interpreted Section 438 and held
that the power under Section 438, “is extra-ordinary” and must be exercised sparingly
in exceptional cases only; that it does not empower the grant of anticipatory bail in a
blanket manner, in respect of offences not yet committed or with regard to accusations
not yet levelled; that it is not an unguided power, but subject to limitations in Section
437 – which are implicit and must be read into Section 438. The Full Bench also held
that the petitioner must “must make out a special case for the exercise of the power to
grant anticipatory bail”; and further that where a legitimate case for remand to police
custody is made or a reasonable claim to secure incriminating material from 55 information likely to be received from the offender “under Section 27 of the Evidence
Act can be made out, the power Under Section 438 should not be exercised.” The full
bench held that Section 438 cannot be availed in respect of offences punishable with
death or life imprisonment “unless the court at that very stage is satisfied that such a
charge appears to be false or groundless.” Likewise, in larger public interest and the
state’s interest Section 438 cannot be resorted to in “economic offences involving
blatant corruption at the higher rungs of the executive and political power” and that
 “(8) Mere general allegation of mala fides in the petition are inadequate.
 The court must be satisfied on materials before it that the allegations of
 mala fides are substantial and the accusation appears to be false and
 groundless.” 7. Sibbia discussed this issue and held that the narrow, restricted interpretation of
Section 438 was not warranted. The court disapproved the Punjab High Court Full
Bench decision; the five judge Bench ruled as follows: section. The controversy therefore is not whether the court has the power to
impose conditions while granting anticipatory bail. It clearly and expressly
has that power. The true question is whether by a process of construction,
the amplitude of judicial discretion which is given to the High Court and
the Court of Session, to impose such conditions as they may think fit while
granting anticipatory bail, should be cut down by reading into the statute
conditions which are not to be found therein, like those evolved by the High
Court or canvassed by the learned Additional Solicitor General. Our
answer, clearly and emphatically, is in the negative. The High Court and
the Court of Session to whom the application for anticipatory bail is made
ought to be left free in the exercise of their judicial discretion to grant bail
if they consider it fit so to do on the particular facts and circumstances of
the case and on such conditions as the case may warrant. Similarly, they
must be left free to refuse bail if the circumstances of the case so warrant,
on considerations similar to those mentioned in Section 437 or which are
generally considered to be relevant under Section 439 of the Code. 14. Generalizations on matters which rest on discretion and the attempt to
discover formulae of universal application when facts are bound to differ
from case to case frustrate the very purpose of conferring discretion. No
two cases are alike on facts and therefore, courts have to be allowed a little
free play in the joints if the conferment of discretionary power is to be
meaningful. There is no risk involved in entrusting a wide discretion to the
Court of Session and the High Court in granting anticipatory bail because,
firstly, these are higher courts manned by experienced persons, secondly,
their orders are not final but are open to appellate or revisional scrutiny
and above all because, discretion has always to be exercised by courts
judicially and not according to whim, caprice or fancy. On the other hand,
there is a risk in foreclosing categories of cases in which anticipatory bail
may be allowed because life throws up unforeseen possibilities and offers
new challenges. Judicial discretion has to be free enough to be able to take
these possibilities in its stride and to meet these challenges. While dealing
with the necessity for preserving judicial discretion unhampered by rules of
general application. -------- -------------- ------ 19. A great deal has been said by the High Court on the fifth proposition
framed by it, according to which, inter alia, the power under Section 438
should not be exercised if the investigating agency can make a reasonable
claim that it can secure incriminating material from information likely to be
received from the offender under Section 27 of the Evidence Act. According
to the High Court, it is the right and the duty of the police to investigate
into offences brought to their notice and therefore, courts should be careful
not to exercise their powers in a manner which is calculated to cause
interference therewith. It is true that the functions of the judiciary and the
police are in a sense complementary and not overlapping. And, as observed
by the Privy Council in King-Emperor v. Khwaja Nazir Ahmed [AIR 1945
PC 18 : (1943-44) 71 IA 203 : 46 Cri LJ 413] : Anticipatory bail is a device to secure the individuals liberty; it is neither a
passport to the commission of crimes nor a shield against any and all kinds
of accusations, likely or unlikely 61 36. Secondly, if an application for anticipatory bail is made to the High
Court or the Court of Session it must apply its own mind to the question and
decide whether a case has been made out for granting such relief. It cannot
leave the question for the decision of the Magistrate concerned under
Section 437 of the Code, as and when an occasion arises. Such a course
will defeat the very object of Section 438. 37. Thirdly, the filing of a first information report is not a condition
precedent to the exercise of the power under Section 438. The imminence of
a likely arrest founded on a reasonable belief can be shown to exist even if
an FIR is not yet filed. 38. Fourthly, anticipatory bail can be granted even after an FIR is filed, so
long as the applicant has not been arrested. 39. Fifthly, the provisions of Section 438 cannot be invoked after the arrest
of the accused. The grant of “anticipatory bail” to an accused who is under
arrest involves a contradiction in terms, insofar as the offence or offences
for which he is arrested, are concerned. After arrest, the accused must seek
his remedy under Section 437 or Section 439 of the Code, if he wants to be
released on bail in respect of the offence or offences for which he is
arrested. 40. We have said that there is one proposition formulated by the High Court
with which we are inclined to agree. That is proposition (2). We agree that
a ‘blanket order’ of anticipatory bail should not generally be passed. This
flows from the very language of the section which, as discussed above,
requires the applicant to show that he has “reason to believe” that he may
be arrested. A belief can be said to be founded on reasonable grounds only
if there is something tangible to go by on the basis of which it can be said
that the applicant's apprehension that he may be arrested is genuine. That
is why, normally, a direction should not issue under Section 438(1) to the
effect that the applicant shall be released on bail “whenever arrested for
whichever offence whatsoever”. That is what is meant by a ‘blanket order’
of anticipatory bail, an order which serves as a blanket to cover or protect
any and every kind of allegedly unlawful activity, in fact any eventuality,
likely or unlikely regarding which, no concrete information can possibly be
had. The rationale of a direction under Section 438(1) is the belief of the
applicant founded on reasonable grounds that he may be arrested for a
non-bailable offence. It is unrealistic to expect the applicant to draw up his
application with the meticulousness of a pleading in a civil case and such is
not requirement of the section. But specific events and facts must be
disclosed by the applicant in order to enable the court to judge of the
reasonableness of his belief, the existence of which is the sine qua non of
the exercise of power conferred by the section. 41. Apart from the fact that the very language of the statute compels this
construction, there is an important principle involved in the insistence that
facts, on the basis of which a direction under Section 438(1) is sought, must 62 be clear and specific, not vague and general. It is only by the observance of
that principle that a possible conflict between the right of an individual to
his liberty and the right of the police to investigate into crimes reported to
them can be avoided. A blanket order of anticipatory bail is bound to cause
serious interference with both the right and the duty of the police in the
matter of investigation because, regardless of what kind of offence is
alleged to have been committed by the applicant and when, an order of bail
which comprehends allegedly unlawful activity of any description
whatsoever, will prevent the police from arresting the applicant even if he
commits, say, a murder in the presence of the public. Such an order can
then become a charter of lawlessness and a weapon to stifle prompt
investigation into offences which could not possibly be predicated when the
order was passed. Therefore, the court which grants anticipatory bail must
take care to specify the offence or offences in respect of which alone the
order will be effective. The power should not be exercised in a vacuum. 42. There was some discussion before us on certain minor modalities
regarding the passing of bail orders under Section 438(1). Can an order of
bail be passed under the section without notice to the Public Prosecutor? It
can be. But notice should issue to the Public Prosecutor or the Government
Advocate forthwith and the question of bail should be re-examined in the
light of the respective contentions of the parties. The ad interim order too
must conform to the requirements of the section and suitable conditions
should be imposed on the applicant even at that stage. Should the operation
of an order passed under Section 438(1) be limited in point of time? Not
necessarily. The court may, if there are reasons for doing so, limit the
operation of the order to a short period until after the filing of an FIR in
respect of the matter covered by the order. The applicant may in such cases
be directed to obtain an order of bail under Section 437 or 439 of the Code
within a reasonably short period after the filing of the FIR as aforesaid. But
this need not be followed as an invariable rule. The normal rule should be
not to limit the operation of the order in relation to a period of time. 43. During the last couple of years this Court, while dealing with appeals
against orders passed by various High Courts, has granted anticipatory
bail to many a person by imposing conditions set out in Section 438(2) (i), (ii) and (iii). The court has, in addition, directed in most of those cases that (a) the applicant should surrender himself to the police for a brief period if
a discovery is to be made under Section 27 of the Evidence Act or that he
should be deemed to have surrendered himself if such a discovery is to be
made. In certain exceptional cases, the court has, in view of the material
placed before it, directed that the order of anticipatory bail will remain in
operation only for a week or so until after the filing of the FIR in respect of
matters covered by the order. These orders, on the whole, have worked
satisfactorily, causing the least inconvenience to the individuals concerned
and least interference with the investigational rights of the police. The court
has attempted through those orders to strike a balance between the 63 individual's right to personal freedom and the investigational rights of the
 police. The appellants who were refused anticipatory bail by various courts
 have long since been released by this Court under Section 438(1) of the
 Code.” 8. The judgment in Sibbia was understood and no apprehensions were reflected
about the duration of anticipatory bail orders, in the next decade and a half. While so,
in Salauddin Abdulsamad Shaikh V. State of Maharashtra , (1996) 1 SCC 667 for the
first time, a discordant note appears to have been struck. It was stated in Salauddin (supra) that grant of anticipatory bail should not mean that the regular court, which is
to try the offender, would be “bypassed”. This court approved the approach of the
High Court, which had fixed the outer date for the continuance of the bail and further
directed that the petitioner, upon expiry, should move the regular court of bail.
Saluddin further held that the procedure followed by the High Court was correct,
because: 9. The approach and reasoning in Salauddin was applied and reiterated by this
Court, in K.L. Verma v. State12 . That decision (K.L. Verma) further explained the
scope of the provision that till the regular bail application of an accused, enjoying
protection under Section 438 is pending before the regular court he need not surrender
and his protection will continue till the disposal of the regular bail application under
Section 437 or Section 439, and that she or he has to move an application (for regular
bail) after expiry of a certain duration as directed by the Court or if the Charge-sheet is
submitted because regular courts cannot be bypassed. It was held, in K.L. Verma that: 10. Again, Sunita Devi; Nirmal Jeet Kaur and Adri Dharan Das (supra) are three
later decisions where this court applied the ratio in Salauddin and echoed the concern
that the “ protective umbrella” of Section 438 cannot be extended beyond the time
period indicated in the previous case (Salauddin) or till the applicant avails remedies
up to high courts and that doing so would mean that the regular court would be
bypassed. The court reiterated that Section 439 would be rendered a dead letter if the
applicant is allowed the benefit of an order under Section 438 till, he avails the
remedy of regular bail up to higher courts. In HDFC Bank Ltd. v. J.J. Mannan,13this
court followed and applied the reasoning in Salauddin, to the extent that certain
limitations must be imposed, while granting anticipatory bail. A new axiom too was
added, that if the police “made out” a case against the applicant and his name was
included as an “accused in the charge-sheet, the accused has to surrender to the
custody of the court and pray for regular bail. On the strength of an order granting
anticipatory bail, an accused against whom charge has been framed, cannot avoid
appearing before the trial court..” The court observed that: sheet, the accused has to surrender to the custody of the court and pray for
 regular bail. On the strength of an order granting anticipatory bail, an
 accused against whom charge has been framed, cannot avoid appearing
 before the trial court.” 11. In the light of these decisions, which narrowed the scope and jurisdiction under
Section 438, the judgment in Mhetre noticed that Sibbia was by a Bench of five
judges, which indicated that imposition of restrictions for granting anticipatory bail
was not always necessary. The court, in Mhetre observed as follows: Arrest leads to many serious consequences not only for the accused but for
the entire family and at times for the entire community. Most people do not
make any distinction between arrest at a pre-conviction stage or post-
conviction stage. Whether the powers under section 438 Cr.P.C. are subject
to limitation of section 437 Cr.P.C.? 98. The question which arises for consideration is whether the powers
under section 438 Cr.P.C. are unguided or uncanalised or are subject to all
the limitations of section 437 Cr.P.C.? The Constitution Bench in Sibbia's
case (supra) has clearly observed that there is no justification for reading
into section 438 Cr.P.C. and the limitations mentioned in section 437 Cr.P.C. The Court further observed that the plentitude of the section must
be given its full play. The Constitution Bench has also observed that the
High Court is not right in observing that the accused must make out a
“special case” for the exercise of the power to grant anticipatory bail. This
virtually, reduces the salutary power conferred by section 438 Cr.P.C. to a
dead letter. The Court observed that “We do not see why the provisions of Section 438 Cr.P.C. should be suspected as containing something volatile or
incendiary, which needs to be handled with the greatest care and caution
imaginable.” 99. As aptly observed in Sibbia 's case (supra) that a wise exercise of
judicial power inevitably takes care of the evil consequences which are
likely to flow out of its intemperate use. Every kind of judicial discretion,
whatever may be the nature of the matter in regard to which it is required to
be exercised, has to be used with due care and caution. In fact, an
awareness of the context in which the discretion is required to be exercised
and of the reasonably foreseeable consequences of its use, is the hallmark
of a prudent exercise of judicial discretion. One ought not to make a
bugbear of the power to grant anticipatory bail. 100. The Constitution Bench in the same judgment also observed that a
person seeking anticipatory bail is still a free man entitled to the
presumption of innocence. He is willing to submit to restraints and
conditions on his freedom, by the acceptance of conditions which the court
may deem fit to impose, in consideration of the assurance that if arrested,
he shall enlarged on bail. 101. The proper course of action ought to be that after evaluating the
averments and accusation available on the record if the court is inclined to
grant anticipatory bail then an interim bail be granted and notice be issued
to the public prosecutor. After hearing the public prosecutor the court may
either reject the bail application or confirm the initial order of
granting bail. The court would certainly be entitled to impose conditions
for the grant of bail. The public prosecutor or complainant would be at
liberty to move the same court for cancellation or modifying the conditions
of bail any time if liberty granted by the court is misused. The bail granted
by the court should ordinarily be continued till the trial of the case. 102. The order granting anticipatory bail for a limited duration and
thereafter directing the accused to surrender and apply before a
regular bail is contrary to the legislative intention and the judgment of the
Constitution Bench in Sibbia 's case (supra). 103. It is a settled legal position that the court which grants the bail also
has the power to cancel it. The discretion of grant or cancellation
of bail can be exercised either at the instance of the accused, the public
prosecutor or the complainant on finding new material or circumstances at
any point of time. 104. The intention of the legislature is quite clear that the power of grant or
refusal of bail is entirely discretionary. The Constitution Bench in Sibbia's
case (supra) has clearly stated that grant and refusal is discretionary and it
should depend on the facts and circumstances of each case. The
Constitution Bench in the said case has aptly observed that we must respect
the wisdom of the Legislature entrusting this power to the superior courts
namely, the High Court and the Court of Session. The Constitution Bench
observed as under: 105. The court which grants the bail has the right to cancel
the bail according to the provisions of the General Clauses Act but
ordinarily after hearing the public prosecutor when the bail order is
confirmed then the benefit of the grant of the bail should continue till the
end of the trial of that case. 106. The judgment in Salauddin Abdulsamad Shaikh (supra) is contrary to
legislative intent and the spirit of the very provisions of the anticipatory
bail itself and has resulted in an artificial and unreasonable restriction on
the scope of enactment contrary to the legislative intention. 107. The restriction on the provision of anticipatory bail under section 438 Cr.P.C. limits the personal liberty of the accused granted under Article 21 of the constitution. The added observation is nowhere found in the
enactment and bringing in restrictions which are not found in the enactment
is again an unreasonable restriction. It would not stand the test of fairness
and reasonableness which is implicit in Article 21 of the Constitution after
the decision in Maneka Gandhi 's case (supra) in which the court observed
that in order to meet the challenge of Article 21 of the Constitution the
procedure established by law for depriving a person of his liberty must be
fair, just and reasonable. 108. Section 438 Cr.P.C. does not mention anything about the duration to
which a direction for release on bail in the event of arrest can be granted.
The order granting anticipatory bail is a direction specifically to release the
accused on bail in the event of his arrest. Once such a direction
of anticipatory bail is executed by the accused and he is released on bail,
the concerned court would be fully justified in imposing conditions
including direction of joining investigation. 109. The court does not use the expression ‘anticipatory bail’ but it
provides for issuance of direction for the release on bail by the High Court
or the Court of Sessions in the event of arrest. According to the aforesaid
judgment of Salauddin 's case, the accused has to surrender before the trial
court and only thereafter he/she can make prayer for grant of bail by the
trial court. The trial court would release the accused only after he has
surrendered. 110. In pursuance to the order of the Court of Sessions or the High Court,
once the accused is released on bail by the trial court, then it would be
unreasonable to compel the accused to surrender before the trial court and
again apply for regular bail. 111. The court must bear in mind that at times the applicant would
approach the court for grant of anticipatory bail on mere apprehension of
being arrested on accusation of having committed a non-bailable offence. In fact, the investigating or concerned agency may not otherwise arrest that
applicant who has applied for anticipatory bail but just because he makes
an application before the court and gets the relief from the court for a
limited period and thereafter he has to surrender before the trial court and
only thereafter his bail application can be considered and life
of anticipatory bail comes to an end. This may lead to disastrous and
unfortunate consequences. The applicant who may not have otherwise lost
his liberty loses it because he chose to file application of anticipatory bail
on mere apprehension of being arrested on accusation of having committed
a non-bailable offence. No arrest should be made because it is lawful for
the police officer to do so. The existence of power to arrest is one thing and
the justification for the exercise of it is quite another. The police officer
must be able to justify the arrest apart from his power to do so. This finding
of the said judgment (supra) is contrary to the legislative intention and law
which has been declared by a Constitution Bench of this court in Sibbia's
case (supra). 112. The validity of the restrictions imposed by the Apex Court, namely, that
the accused released on anticipatory bail must submit himself to custody
and only thereafter can apply for regular bail . This is contrary to the basic
intention and spirit of section 438 Cr.P.C. It is also contrary to Article 21 of
the Constitution. The test of fairness and reasonableness is implicit under Article 21 of the Constitution of India. Directing the accused to surrender
to custody after the limited period amounts to deprivation of his personal
liberty. 113. It is a settled legal position crystallized by the Constitution Bench of
this court in Sibbia 's case (supra) that the courts should not impose
restrictions on the ambit and scope of section 438 Cr.P.C. which are not
envisaged by the Legislature. The court cannot rewrite the provision of the
statute in the garb of interpreting it. 114. It is unreasonable to lay down strict, inflexible and rigid rules for
exercise of such discretion by limiting the period of which an order under
this section could be granted. We deem it appropriate to reproduce some
observations of the judgment of the Constitution Bench of this court in
the Sibbia 's case (supra)…”
********************* ***************** 121. No inflexible guidelines or straitjacket formula can be provided for
grant or refusal of anticipatory bail. We are clearly of the view that no
attempt should be made to provide rigid and inflexible guidelines in this
respect because all circumstances and situations of future cannot be clearly
visualized for the grant or refusal of anticipatory bail . In consonance with
the legislative intention the grant or refusal of anticipatory bail should
necessarily depend on facts and circumstances of each case. As aptly
observed in the Constitution Bench decision in Sibbia 's case (supra) that
the High Court or the Court of Sessions to exercise their jurisdiction under 70 section 438 Cr.P.C. by a wise and careful use of their discretion which by
their long training and experience they are ideally suited to do. In any
event, this is the legislative mandate which we are bound to respect and
honour. 122. The following factors and parameters can be taken into consideration
while dealing with the anticipatory bail: 123. The arrest should be the last option and it should be restricted to those
exceptional cases where arresting the accused is imperative in the facts and
circumstances of that case. 124. The court must carefully examine the entire available record and
particularly the allegations which have been directly attributed to the 71 accused and these allegations are corroborated by other material and
 circumstances on record. 125. These are some of the factors which should be taken into consideration
 while deciding the anticipatory bail applications. These factors are by no
 means exhaustive but they are only illustrative in nature because it is
 difficult to clearly visualize all situations and circumstances in which a
 person may pray for anticipatory bail. If a wise discretion is exercised by
 the concerned judge, after consideration of entire material on record then
 most of the grievances in favour of grant of or refusal of bail will be taken
 care of. The legislature in its wisdom has entrusted the power to exercise
 this jurisdiction only to the judges of the superior courts. In consonance
 with the legislative intention we should accept the fact that the discretion
 would be properly exercised. In any event, the option of approaching the
 superior court against the court of Sessions or the High Court is always
 available.” 12. These seemingly incongruent strands of reasoning- stemming from the two
distinct line of precedents, spawning divergent approaches to the scope of jurisdiction
under Section 438 have impelled the reference to this larger Bench. The provisions 13. For completeness, it is essential to set out the relevant provisions: to wit, Sections 437 , 438 and 439 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1974 (hereafter
variously “ Cr.PC ” and “the Code”). They are reproduced in the footnote below. 14

Contentions of parties 14 “437. When bail may be taken in case of non- bailable offence.
 (1) When any person accused of, or suspected of, the commission of
 any non- bailable offence is arrested or detained without warrant by an
 officer in charge of a police station or appears or is brought before a Court
 other than the High Court or Court of Session, he may be released on bail,
 but- (i) such person shall not be so released if there appear reasonable
 grounds for believing that he has been guilty of an offence punishable with
 death or imprisonment for life; (ii) such person shall not be so released if such offence is a cognizable
 offence and he had been previously convicted of an offence punishable with
 death, imprisonment for life or imprisonment for seven years or more, or he
 had been previously convicted on two or more occasions of a cognizable
 offence punishable with imprisonment for three years or more but not less than
 seven years. 14. Mr. Abhay Kumar, for the petitioner, argued that it is not correct to find any
limitation on the life span of an order of anticipatory bail in terms of its duration by
reading the para 42 of Sibbia Case; and that the life of anticipatory bail is coterminous
with the life of criminal case, whether the criminal case gets over either at the stage of
trial or before it, in a given case. He further urged that personal liberty is a cherished
freedom, even more important than the other freedoms guaranteed under the
Constitution. The Constitution framers therefore enacted safeguards in Article 22 in

 Provided that the Court may direct that a person referred to in clause (i)
 or clause (ii) be released on bail if such person is under the age of sixteen
 years or is a woman or is sick or infirm. Provided further that the Court may also direct that a person referred to
 in clause (ii) be released on bail if it is satisfied that it is just and proper so to
 do for any other special reason. Provided also that the mere fact that an accused person may be required
 for being identified by witnesses during investigation shall not be sufficient
 ground for refusing to grant bail if he is otherwise entitled to be released on
 bail and gives an undertaking that he shall comply with such directions as may
 be given by the Court. Provided also that no person shall if the offence alleged to have been
 committed by him is punishable with death imprisonment for life or
 imprisonment for seven years or more be released on bail by the Court under
 this sub-section without giving an opportunity of hearing to the public
 prosecutor. (2) If it appears to such officer or Court at any stage of the
 investigation, inquiry or trial, as the case may be, that there are not reasonable
 grounds for believing that the accused has committed a non- bailable offence,
 but that there are sufficient grounds for further inquiry into his guilt the
 accused shall, subject to the provisions of section 446A and pending such
 inquiry, be released on bail or at the discretion of such officer or Court, on the
 execution by him of a bond without sureties for his appearance as hereinafter
 provided. (3) When a person accused or suspected of the commission of an
 offence punishable with imprisonment which may extend to seven years or
 more or of an offence under Chapter VI, Chapter XVI or Chapter XVII of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) or abetment of, or conspiracy or attempt to
 commit, any such offence, is released on bail under sub-section (1), the Court
 shall impose the conditions- (a) that such person shall attend in accordance with the conditions of
 the bond executed under this Chapter, or 73 the Constitution to limit the power of the State to detain a person without trial, which
may otherwise pass the test of Article 21 , by humanizing the harsh authority over
individual liberty. 15. It is submitted, therefore that the substantive constitutional right of personal
liberty can be denied or curtailed only in accordance with the procedure established by
a law that is fair, just and reasonable. That substantial right is procedurally enforced, (b) that such person shall not commit an offence similar to the offence
 of which he is accused or suspected of the commission of which he is
 suspected, and (c) that such person shall not directly or indirectly make any
 inducement, threat or promise to any person acquainted with the facts of the
 case so as to dissuade him for disclosing such facts to the Court or to any
 police officer or tamper with the evidence,
 and may also impose in the interest of justice such other conditions as it
 considers necessary. (4) An officer or a Court releasing any person on bail under sub-
 section (1) or sub- section (2), shall record in writing his or its reasons or
 special reasons for so doing. (5) Any Court which has released a person on bail under sub- section
 (1) or sub- section (2), may, if it considers it necessary so to do, direct that
 such person be arrested and commit him to custody. (6) If, in any case triable by a Magistrate, the trial of a person accused
 of any non- bailable offence is not concluded within a period of sixty days from
 the first date fixed for taking evidence in the case, such person shall, if he is in
 custody during the whole of the said period, be released on bail to the
 satisfaction of the Magistrate, unless for reasons to be recorded in writing, the
 Magistrate otherwise directs. (7) If, at any time after the conclusion of the trial of a person accused
 of a non- bailable offence and before judgment is delivered, the Court is of
 opinion that there are reasonable grounds for believing that the accused is not
 guilty of any such offence, it shall release the accused, if he is in custody, on
 the execution by him of a bond without sureties for his appearance to hear
 judgment delivered. 438. Direction for grant of bail to person apprehending arrest.
 (1) When any person has reason to believe that he may be arrested on an
 accusation of having committed a non- bailable offence, he may apply to the High
 Court or the Court of Session for a direction under this section; and that Court
 may, if it thinks fit, direct that in the event of such arrest, he shall be released on 74 apart from others, in terms of grant of Bail to an accused in a criminal case. Chapter
XXXIII of the Code contains elaborate provisions relating to grant of bail. Bail is
granted to one who is arrested in a non-bailable offence or has been convicted of an
offence after trail. The effect of granting bail is to release the accused from internment
though the court would still retain constructive control over him through the sureties.
In case the accused is released on his own bond such constructive control could still

 bail.*

 * By amendment, made in 2005, Subsection (1) has been substituted
 as follows (the amended portion is brackets; the amendment has not yet
 been brought into force): Provided that where the High Court or as the case may be the Court of
 Session has not passed any interim order under this sub-section or has rejected
 the application for grant of anticipatory bail it shall be open to an officer in
 charge of police station to arrest without warrant the applicant on the basis of
 the accusation apprehended in such application
 (IA) Where the Courts grants an interim order under sub-section (1), it
 shall forthwith cause a notice being not less than seven days notice, together
 with the copy of such order to be served on the Public Prosecutor and the
 Superintendent of Police, with a view to give the Public Prosecutor a
 reasonable opportunity of being heard when the application shall be finally
 heard by the Court 75 be exercised through the conditions of the bond secured from him. “Bail” literally
means surety. 16. The literal meaning of the word “bail” is surety. Counsel referred to the
meaning of “bail” in Halsbury’s Laws of England(Halsbury’s Laws of England, 4 th
Edn., Vol. 11, para 166), and submitted that it is aimed at placing the accused in the

 (IB) The presence of the applicant seeking anticipatory bail shall be
 obligatory at the time of final hearing of the application and passing of final
 order by the Court, if on an application made to it by the Public Prosecutor, the
 Court considers such presence necessary in the interest of justice.] --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------- The unamended portion- Section 438 (2) and (3), and the newly
 introduced sub-section (4) read as follows: (1) A High Court or Court of Session may direct- (a) that any person accused of an offence and in custody be released on
 bail, and if the offence is of the nature specified in subsection (3) of Section
 437, may impose any condition which it considers necessary for the purposes
 mentioned in that sub- section; (b) that any condition imposed by a Magistrate when releasing an
 person on bail be set aside or modified: (IA) The presence of the informant or any person authorised by him
 shall be obligatory at the time of hearing of the application for bail to the
 person under sub-Section (3) of the Section 376 or Section 376 AB or Section
 376 DA or Section 376 DB of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860)
 (2). A High Court or Court of Session may direct that any person who has
 been released on bail under this Chapter be arrested and commit him to
 custody.” 15 Halsbury’s Laws of England (4th Edn., Vol. 11, para 166): “The effect of granting
bail is not to set the defendant (accused) at liberty but to release him from the custody 77 (Order to release on probation of good conduct or after admonition, a post-conviction
stage and Section389 (Suspension of sentence pending the appeal and release of
appellant on bail - postconviction and during pendency of Appeal). Section 438
manifests the principle of liberty. 17. Counsel highlighted that anticipatory bail is panacea for apprehension of arrest
in false case. Anticipatory bail protects from trauma and stigma of arrest of an
innocent (in most of the cases, full of various responsibilities and even being sole
bread earner of her/his family members), consequently prohibiting in creating reverse
victims by way of dependent upon the said accused. An elementary postulate of
criminal jurisprudence is the presumption of innocence, meaning thereby that a person
is believed to be innocent until found guilty. However, there are instances in our
criminal law where a reverse onus is placed on an accused with regard to some
specific offences but that is another matter and does not detract from the fundamental
postulate in respect of other offences. Yet another important facet of our criminal
jurisprudence is that the grant of bail is the general rule and putting a person in jail or
in a prison or in a correction home (whichever expression one may wish to use) is an
exception. Counsel relied on Dataram Singh v. State of U.P (2018) 3 SCC 22). 18. Counsel submitted that the provision in Section 438 read with Section 439 (2)
of the Code, contain clear guidelines and limitations. It was highlighted that the
discretion to impose (or not impose) condition is left to the concerned court and the
Code therefore cannot be interpreted to cut short its duration either till filing of
charge-sheet or unearthing of alleged fresh materials during investigation. It is
submitted that the power to curtail or to diminish, the duration of anticipatory bail, in
a suitable case, is governed by Section 439(2) of the Code in the same manner which
is enumerated in Section 437 of the Code (which is applicable to a Court other than
High Court or Court of Session). The counsel urged that there have been instances of
courts passing orders, including in some of the orders/judgments of this Court,

of law and to entrust him to the custody of his sureties who are bound to produce him
to appear at his trial at a specified time and place. The sureties may seize their
principal at any time and may discharge themselves by handing him over to the
custody of law and he will then be imprisoned.” 78 wherein denial of anticipatory bail is followed by direction to accused to surrender
and seek regular bail. This, counsel highlighted, is not based on any sound rationale. 19. Mr. C.S.N. Mohan Rao, learned counsel, emphasized that arrest of an accused,
is governed, by Sections 41-46 of the Code. The arrest of an accused, is required, if at
all, broadly for unearthing the truth of the case during investigation (a choice of the
investigating agency) and to secure the presence of accused during trial, for free and
fair trial including exclusion of any possibility of influencing of witnesses/and
tampering of evidence or aborting a trial by absconding (prerogative of the trail court)
or any other means or method known or unknown. Therefore, whether an accused has
to be arrested and kept in custody and remains in that state of physical confinement,
ideally is to be the domain of the prosecuting agency and /or of trying Court. There are
sufficient methods enlisted in the Code to ensure this end by both i.e. the prosecuting
agency including complainant/victim and also to the concerned court- by filing of
cancellation of bail by former and issuance of bailable and non-bailable warrant by the
latter. Counsel argued that in any case, rejection of an application for anticipatory bail,
at first instance, does not automatically give rise to evil consequences for an accused
to surrender and seek regular bail. The filing of subsequent anticipatory bail and grant
of the relief by a competent court of law in a suitable case, upon showing proper and
inspiring subsequent chance in circumstances in favour of accused, is sufficient
indicative factor of the proposition that a rejection of anticipatory will generate no
automatic warrant for an accused to surrender and seek regular bail. If subsequent and
material change or circumstance can be a plausible reason for cancellation of bail, is
should definitely, considering the valuable right of an accused, equally there can be a
reason for applying fresh application for anticipatory bail in a suitable case. Having
regard to all these factors, counsel urged this court to endorse the reasoning in Mhetre
which according to him is conformity with the larger bench ruling in Sibbia, and
accommodates the flexibilities in the Code. 20. Mr. Rao relied on the observations in Gurcharan Singh v State (Delhi Admn)16
to say that cancellation of anticipatory bail, when warranted by the facts, is the answer 16 1978 (1) SCC 118. The observations are as follows: 21. It was submitted that the decisions in Aslam Babalal Desai v State of
Maharastra18 is an authority for the proposition that there can be no cancellation of
the bail granted, or deemed to be granted, under Section 167 (2) merely upon the later
filing of a charge sheet. The court had observed as follows, in Aslam Babalal Desai
(supra) in this context: 22. Mr. K.V. Vishwanathan, learned Senior Counsel emphasised that the exercise of
power under Section 438 is identical to the exercise of power under Sections 437 and
439 Cr. P.C. Consequently, pre arrest bail granted in anticipation of arrest- under
Section 438, in his submission, operates like any other order of bail i.e. till an order of
conviction or affirmative direction is passed to arrest the individuals, is made under
 ten years; (ii) sixty days, where the investigation relates to any other offence, and,
 on the expiry of the said period of ninety days, or sixty days, as the case may
 be, the accused person shall be released on bail if he is prepared to and does
 furnish bail, and every person released on bail under this sub- section shall
 be deemed to be so released under the provisions of Chapter XXXIII for the
 purposes of that Chapter;..” 18 1992 (4) SCC 272 81 Section 439 (2). Mr. Vishwanathan highlighted that Section 438 has an intrinsic link
with Article 21 in as much as it seeks to balance state’s power and responsibility to
investigate offence, with its duty to protect individual rights and liberties of citizens.
It was submitted that Article 21 raises the presumption of innocence in favour of other
accused; consequently, this has to be at the centre of every consideration of penal
statutes and their interpretation. 23. It was also submitted that Section 438 being part of procedure established by
law is to be construed in a fair, just and reasonable manner. Learned counsel
reiterated that this was what the Court highlighted in Sibbia. Mr. Vishwanathan, after
outlining the background of Section 438 - in the context of the observations of the 41 st
Law Commission Report submitted that those comments should also be considered in
the light of the observations made in the Report of the Committee on Reforms of the
Criminal Justice System by Dr. Justice V.S. Malimath. Reliance on para 7.26.3.19 24. It was urged that the power of arrest with the police is under Section 41 of the
CrPC. That provision is in two parts. One, relating to offences in which the maximum
punishment can extend to imprisonment for seven year. Second, relating to offences in
which the maximum punishment can extend to imprisonment to above seven years or
death penalty. Though they have different conditions and thresholds, in both cases it is
clear from a bare reading of the section that the power of arrest cannot be exercised in
ever FIR that is registered u/s 154 Cr.PC. This power is circumscribed by the
conditions laid down in this section. Moreover, this principle that the power of arrest
is not required to be exercised in every case was recognized in the case of Joginder
Kumar v. State of U.P20 ; Lalitha Kumari v. State of U.P21 ; and Arnesh Kumar v. State 19 The Report remarked – after considering 3rd Report of the National Police
Commission that the “power of arrest was one of the chief sources of corruption in
the police. The report suggested that by and large nearly 60% of the arrests were
either unnecessary or unjustified and that such unjustified police action accounted for
43.2% of the expenditure of the prison department”. 1994 (4) SCC 260 21 2014 (2) SCC 1 82 of Bihar.22 This Court in M.C. Abraham v. State of Maharastra23 held that it was not
mandatory for the police to arrest a person only because his/her anticipatory bail had
been rejected. It was further stated that the power of arrest is then further
circumscribed by Section 438. As recognized by the Law Commission, there are cases
where the power of arrest is not required or allowed to be exercised. Exercising power
of arrest in such cases would be a grave violation of a person’s right and liberty. Such
exercise of power would amount to misuse of Section 41 . The check on the power of
arrest and custody provided by Sections 437 or 439 is limited as the check is only post
facto. By then the person arrested has already suffered the trauma and humiliation of
arrest. 25. Counsel submitted to strike a further balance between the power of arrest and
the rights of the accused, the power under Section 438 is specifically given to the
Court of Session and the High Court so as to ensure that this judicial intervention is
done at the supervisory level and not at the magisterial level. It is in this light that the
two questions raised in the present reference need to be addressed. It was urged that a
bare reading of Section 438 shows that there is nothing in the language of the section
which goes to show that the pre-arrest bail granted under this section has to be time-
bound. The position is the same as in Sections 437 and 439. Counsel pointed to
Section 438 (3) and submitted that two important aspects of this provision highlight
the understanding the scheme of the Code: 2014 (8) SCC 273 23 2003 (2) SCC 649 83 26. This curtailment of power of the magistrate clearly shows Parliamentary intent
that one who is granted relief under Section 438 ought not to be arrested at the stage
of cognizance because of the said pre-arrest bail order. Considering this express
provision, no other interpretation can be given to the said section. The second question
referred here squarely covered by this sub-section. This order passed under Section
438, is a pre-arrest direction (to release on bail, in the event of arrest), is subject to the
power granted to the Court of Session and the High Court under Section 439(2) Cr.
P.C. It is clear from the provision that a bail granted under Section 438 is further
governed by Section 439(2) which gives the power to the Court of Session or the High
Court to direct the arrest of the accused at any time. This ensures that through judicial
intervention the balance between the two competing principles can again be revisited
if the need arises. In other words, considering any relevant change in circumstances
the prosecution can seek the arrest of the accused. The only difference is that the
power of arrest in these cases is exercised only after judicial scrutiny. This provision
envisions that the Code presupposes that orders once passed under Sections 438 and
439 will continue till a contrary order is passed under Section 439(2). The order
passed under Sections 438 or 439 are not and temporary or time bound. Therefore, a
person enjoying the benefit of orders under these sections can be taken into custody
only when a specific direction is passed under Section 439(2). This direction for
arrest under Section 439 (2) is different from seeking cancellation of bail. 27. It was argued that undoubtedly violation of a condition imposed in an order
passed under Section 438 can lead to a direction of arrest under Section 439(2).
However, the scope of Section 439(2) is not limited to only cancellation of bail.
Counsel stated that this proposition of law was considered by this court in Pradeep
Ram v. State of Jharkhand24 . In this case, this court while considering an earlier
judgment in Mithabhai Pashabhai Patel v. State of Gujarat25 , held that by virtue of
Sections 437(5) and 439(2), a direction to take a person into custody could be passed
despite his being released on bail, by a previous order. The court held that under
Sections 437(5) and 439(2) a person could be directed to be taken into custody 24 2019 SCC Online (SC) 825 25 2009 (6) SCC 332, 84 without necessarily cancelling his earlier bail. The difference between cancellation of
bail and a direction to take a person into custody under Section 439(2) was
recognised. It was also held in this case that if a graver offence is added to the FIR or
to the case after the person has been granted bail, a direction under Section 439(2) or
437(5) is required before such person can be arrested again for the new offences added
to the case. Therefore, this court recognized the need for court’s supervision after the
bail had been granted. 28. Mr. Hiren Raval, learned amicus curiae, highlighted that while there are
passages in Sibbia (supra), which support the arguments of the petitioners, that orders
under Section 438 can be unconditional and not limited by time, the court equally
struck a note of caution, and wished courts to be circumspect while making orders of
anticipatory bail. In this regard, learned senior counsel highlighted paragraphs 42 and
43 of the decisions in Sibbia. 29. Elaborating on his submissions, the amicus submitted that whether to impose
any conditions or limit the order of anticipatory bail in point of time undoubtedly falls
within the discretion of the court seized of the application. He however submitted that
this discretion should be exercised with caution and circumspection. Counsel
submitted that there could be three situations when anticipatory bail applications are to
be considered: one, when the application is filed in anticipation of arrest, before filing
FIR; two, after filing FIR, but before the filing of the charge sheet; and three, after
filing charge sheet. It was submitted that as a matter of prudence and for good reasons,
articulated in Salauddin, K.L. Verma, Adri Dharan Das and decisions adopting their
reasoning, it would be salutary and in public interest for courts to impose time limits
for the life of orders of anticipatory bail. Counsel submitted that if anticipatory bail is
sought before filing of an FIR the courts should grant relief, limited till the point in
time, when the FIR is filed. In the second situation, i.e. after the FIR is filed, the court
may limit the grant of anticipatory bail till the point of time when a charge sheet is
filed; in the third situation, if the application is made after filing the charge sheet, it is
up to the court, to grant or refuse it altogether, looking at the nature of the charge.
Likewise, if arrest is apprehended, the court should consider the matter in an entirely
discretionary manner, and impose such conditions as may be deemed appropriate. 30. Mr. Raval submitted that in every contingency, the court is not powerless after
the grant of an order of anticipatory bail; it retains the discretion to revisit the matter if
new material relevant to the issue, is discovered and placed on record before it. He
highlighted Section 439(2) and argued that that provision exemplified the power of the
court to modify its previous approach and even revoke altogether an earlier order
granting anticipatory bail. It was submitted that the bar under Section 362 of the Code
(against review of an order by a criminal court) is inapplicable to matters of
anticipatory bail, given the nature and content of the power under Section 439(2). 31. Mr. Raval also submitted that power under Section 438 cannot be exercised to
undermine any criminal investigation. He highlighted the concern that an
unconditional order of anticipatory bail, would be capable of misuse to claim
immunity in a blanket manner, which was never the intent of Parliament. Counsel
submitted that besides, the discretion of courts empowered to grant anticipatory bail
should be understood as balancing the right to liberty and the public interest in a fair
and objective investigation. Therefore, such orders should be so fashioned as to ensure
that accused individuals co-operate during investigations and assist in the process of
recovery of suspect or incriminating material, which they may lead the police to
discover or recover and which is admissible, during the trial, per Section 27 of the
Evidence Act. He submitted that if these concerns are taken into account, the
declaration of law in Mhetre – particularly in Paras 122 and 123 that no condition can
be imposed by court, in regard to applications for anticipatory bail, is erroneous; it is
contrary to Para 42 and 43 of the declaration of law in Sibbia’s case (supra). It was
emphasized that ever since the decision in Salauddin and other subsequent judgments
which followed it, the practise of courts generally was to impose conditions while
granting anticipatory bail: especially conditions which required the applicant/ accused
to apply for bail after 90 days, or surrender once the charge sheet was filed, and apply
for regular bail. Counsel relied on Section 437(3) to say that the conditions spelt out in
that provision are to be considered, while granting anticipatory bail, by virtue of
Section 438(2). 32. Mr. Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General and Mr. Vikramjit Banerjee,
learned Additional Solicitor General, submitted that the decision in Mhetre (supra) is 86 erroneous and should be overruled. It was submitted that though Section 438 does not
per se pre-suppose imposition of conditions for grant of anticipatory bail,
nevertheless, given Section 438(2) and Section 437(3), various factors must be taken
into account. Whilst exercising power to grant (or refuse) a direction in the nature of
anticipatory bail, the court is bound to strike a balance between the individual's right
to personal freedom and the right of investigation of the police. For this purpose, in
granting relief under Section 438(1), appropriate conditions can be imposed under
Section 438(2) to ensure an unimpeded investigation. The object of imposing
conditions is to avoid the possibility of the person or accused hampering investigation.
Thus, any condition, which has no reference to the fairness or propriety of the
investigation or trial, cannot be countenanced as permissible under the law.
Consequently, courts should exercise their discretion in imposing conditions with care
and restraint. 33. The law presumes an accused to be innocent till his guilt is proved. As a
presumably innocent person, he is entitled to all the fundamental rights including the
right to liberty guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution. Counsel stated that at
the same time, while granting anticipatory bail, the courts are expected to consider and
keep in mind the nature and gravity of accusation, antecedents of the applicant,
namely, about his previous involvement in such offence and the possibility of the
applicant to flee from justice. It is also the duty of the Court to ascertain whether
accusation has been made with the object of injuring or humiliating him by having
him so arrested. It is needless to mention that the Courts are duty bound to impose
appropriate conditions as provided under Section 438(2) of the Code. 34. Counsel argued that there is no substantial difference between Sections 438 and
439 of the Code as regards appreciation of the case while granting or refusing bail.
Neither anticipatory bail nor regular bail, however, can be granted as a matter of rule.
Being an extraordinary privilege, should be granted only in exceptional cases. The
judicial discretion conferred upon the court must be properly exercised after proper
application of mind to decide whether it is a fit case for grant of anticipatory bail. In
this regard, counsel relied on Jai Prakash Singh v State of Bihar26 . Counsel relied on 26 2012 ( 4) SCC 325 87 State of M.P. & Anr. v Ram Kishna Balothia & Anr. 27 where this court considered the
nature of the right of anticipatory bail and observed that: After arrest, the accused must seek his remedy under Section 437 or Section 439 of
the Code, if he wants to be released on bail in respect of the offence or offences for
which he is arrested. The following passages in Savitri Agarwal (supra) were relied
upon: Otherwise, such an order can become a charter of lawlessness and a
 weapon to stifle prompt investigation into offences which could not
 possible be predicated when the order was passed. ********* ************** (ix) Though it is not necessary that the operation of an order passed
 under Section 438(1) of the Code be limited in point of time but the
 court may, if there are reasons for doing so, limit the operation of the
 order to a short period until after the filing of FIR in respect of the
 matter covered by the order. The applicant may, in such cases, be
 directed to obtain an order of bail under Section 437 or 439 of the
 Code within a reasonable short period after the filing of the FIR.” 36. It was also argued on behalf of the Govt of NCT- and the Union, that this court
had expressed a serious concern, time and again, that if accused or applicants who
seek anticipatory bail are equipped with an unconditional order before they are
interrogated by the police it would greatly harm the investigation and would impede
the prospects of unearthing all the ramifications involved in a conspiracy. Public
interest also would suffer as consequence. Reference was invited to State of A.P. v.
Bimal Krishna Kundu29 in this context. Likewise, attention of the court was invited to Muraleedharan v. State of Kerala30 which held that “Custodial interrogation of such
an accused is indispensably necessary for the investigating agency to unearth all the
links involved in the criminal conspiracies committed by the person which ultimately
led to the capital tragedy.” It was highlighted that statements made during custodial 29 1997 (8) SCC 104 30 2001 (4) SCC 638 89 interrogation are qualitatively more relevant to those made otherwise. Granting an
unconditional order of anticipatory bail would therefore thwart a complete and
objective investigation. 37. Mr. Aman Lekhi, learned Additional Solicitor General, urged that the general
drift of reasoning in Sibbia was not in favour of a generalized imposition of
conditions- either as to the period (in terms of time, or in terms of a specific event,
such as filing of charge sheet) limiting the grant of anticipatory bail. It was
submitted that the text of Section 439(2) applied per se to all forms of orders-
including an order or direction to release an applicant on bail (i.e. grant of
anticipatory bail), upon the court’s satisfaction that it is necessary to do so. Such
order (of cancellation, under Section 439(2) or direction to arrest) may made be
where the conditions made applicable at the time of grant of relief, are violated or
not complied with, or where the larger interests of a fair investigation necessitate it. Analysis and Conclusions

 Re Point No 1: Whether the protection granted to a person under Section
 438 , CrPC should be limited to a fixed period so as to enable the person to
 surrender before the Trial Court and seek regular bail 38. The concept of bail, i.e. preserving the liberty of citizen – even accused of
committing offences, but subject to conditions, dates back to antiquity. Justinian I in
the collections of laws and interpretations which prevailed in his times, Codex
Justinianus (or ‘Code Jus’) in Book 9 titled Title 3(2) stipulated that “no accused
person shall under any circumstances, be confined in prison before he is convicted”.
The second example of a norm of the distant past is the Magna Carta which by clause
44 enacted that “people who live outside the forest need not in future appear before
the Royal Justices of the forest in answer to the general summons unless they are
actually involved in proceedings or are sureties for someone who has been seized for
a forest offence.” Clear Parliamentary recognition of bail took shape in later
enactments in the UK through the Habeas Corpus Act 1677 and the English Bill of 90 Rights, 1689 which prescribed that “excessive bail ought not to be required, nor
excessive fines imposed, nor cruel and unusual punishments inflicted”. 39. Bail ipso facto has not been defined under the Code. It is now widely
recognized as a norm which includes the governing principles enabling the setting of
accused person on liberty subject to safeguards, required to make sure that he is
present whenever needed. The justification for bail (to one accused of commission or
committing a crime is that it preserves a person who is under cloud of having
transgressed law but not convicted for it, from the rigors of a detention. 40. Section 438 of the Cr.PC provides for the issuance of directions for the grant of
bail to a person apprehending arrest. The Cr.PC of 1973 replaced the old code of 1898.
The old code did not provide for any corresponding provision to Section 438 of the
code of 1973. Under the old code, there was a sharp difference of opinion amongst the
various High Courts on the question as to whether courts had the inherent power to
pass an order of bail in anticipation of arrest. The predominant position was that
courts did not have such a power. Subsequently, the need for various amendments to
make the code more comprehensive resulted in the enactment of the Code of Criminal
Procedure in 1973. Interestingly, Section 438 does not expressly use the term
“anticipatory bail”; its language instead empowers the concerned to court to issue
directions for grant of bail. 41. The Law Commission of India, in its 41st Report of 1969, noted that the
necessity for granting anticipatory bail arises mainly due to influential persons
attempting to implicate their rivals in false cases, or disgracing them by getting them
detained in jail. The report further noted that apart from false cases, where there are
reasonable grounds for holding that a person accused of an offence is not likely to
abscond, or otherwise misuse his liberty while on bail, there seems to be no
justification to require him first to submit to custody, remain in prison for some days
and then apply for bail. The report recommended that a provision be included for the
direction to grant bail in such cases, and that this power vest in the High Courts and
Courts of Session only. The report, however, did not include the conditions for grant
of anticipatory bail in the suggested language for the provision. Certain conditions that 91 courts may include were, however included in the provision that was enacted as Section 438 of the Cr.PC, 1973. 42. The term ‘anticipatory bail’ finds no place in the Cr.PC itself but was used by
the Law Commission of India in its 41 st Report. The term was used to convey that it
was an application for bail in anticipation of arrest, i.e., before the arrest itself is made.
Grant of bail, according to Wharton’s Law Lexicon, and as noticed in Sibbia (supra),
means to “set at liberty a person arrested or imprisoned, on security being taken for
his appearance”. Sibbia, observed thus: 43. In Sibbia (supra), this Court considered the specific question of whether the
power to grant anticipatory bail under Section 438 is limited to contingencies such as
the possibility that the police may use their investigative powers to humiliate the
person sought to be arrested, or pervert the course of justice and abuse their powers of
investigation. One of the arguments raised in Sibbia, as also in the present case, was
that the power to grant anticipatory bail ought to be left to the discretion of the court
concerned, depending on the facts and circumstances of each case. The State, on the
other hand, argued that the grant of anticipatory bail should at least be conditional
upon the bail applicant showing that he is likely to be arrested for an ulterior motive -
that the proposed charges are baseless or motivated by malafides. The State also 92 argued that anticipatory bail is an extraordinary remedy and therefore, whenever it
appears that the proposed accusations are prima facie plausible, the applicant should
be left to the ordinary remedy of applying for bail under Section 437 or Section 439 of
the Cr.PC, after being arrested. 44. Counsel for the appellants in Sibbia, on the other hand, argued that since the
denial of bail amounts to deprivation of personal liberty, courts should lean against the
imposition of unnecessary restrictions on the scope of Section 438, when no such
restrictions are prescribed by the legislature under that provision. The Court observed
that Section 438(1) is couched in broad and unqualified terms and was of the opinion
that such broad language ought not to be infused with restraints and conditions which
the legislature itself did not think proper or necessary to impose. The court laid
emphasis on the primacy of the presumption of innocence in criminal jurisprudence,
and observed that Section 438 was not enacted on a clean slate, but rather within the
context of the existing provisions, Sections 437 (dealing with the power of courts
other than the Court of Session and the High Court to grant bail in nonbailable cases)
and Section 439 (which deals with the "special powers" of the High Court and the
Court of Session regarding bail). In the light of the relevant extracts of Sibbia, it
would now be worthwhile to recount the relevant observations on the issue. The
discussion and conclusions in Sibbia are summarized as follows: 45. (i) Grant of an order of unconditional anticipatory bail would be “plainly
contrary to the very terms of Section 438.” Even though the terms of Section 438(1)
confer discretion, Section 438(2) “confers on the court the power to include such
conditions in the direction as it may think fit in the light of the facts of the particular
case, including the conditions mentioned in clauses (i) to (iv) of that sub-section.” (ii) Grant of an order under Section 438(1) does not per se hamper investigation of an
offence; Section 438(1)(i) and (ii) enjoin that an accused/applicant should co-operate
with investigation. Sibbia (supra) also stated that courts can fashion appropriate
conditions governing bail, as well. One condition can be that if the police make out a
case of likely recovery of objects or discovery of facts under Section 27 (of the Evidence Act, 1872 ), the accused may be taken into custody. Given that there is no 93 formal method prescribed by Section 46 of the Code if recovery is made during a
statement (to the police) and pursuant to the accused volunteering the fact, it would be
a case of recovery during “deemed arrest” (Para 19 of Sibbia). (iii) The accused is not obliged to make out a special case for grant of anticipatory
bail; reading an otherwise wide power would fetter the court’s discretion. Whenever
an application (for relief under Section 438) is moved, discretion has to be always
exercised judiciously, and with caution, having regard to the facts of every case. (Para
21, Sibbia). (iv) While the power of granting anticipatory bail is not ordinary, at the same time, its
use is not confined to exceptional cases (Para 22, Sibbia). (v) It is not justified to require courts to only grant anticipatory bail in special cases
made out by accused, since the power is extraordinary, or that several considerations –
spelt out in Section 437- or other considerations, are to be kept in mind. (Para 24-25,
Sibbia). (vi) Overgenerous introduction (or reading into) of constraints on the power to grant
anticipatory bail would render it Constitutionally vulnerable. Since fair procedure is
part of Article 21 , the court should not throw the provision (i.e. Section 438) open to
challenge “by reading words in it which are not to be found therein.” (Para 26). (vii) There is no “inexorable rule” that anticipatory bail cannot be granted unless the
applicant is the target of mala fides. There are several relevant considerations to be
factored in, by the court, while considering whether to grant or refuse anticipatory
bail. Nature and seriousness of the proposed charges, the context of the events likely
to lead to the making of the charges, a reasonable possibility of the accused’s presence
not being secured during trial; a reasonable apprehension that the witnesses might be
tampered with, and “the larger interests of the public or the state” are some of the
considerations. A person seeking relief (of anticipatory bail) continues to be a man
presumed to be innocent. (Para 31, Sibbia). (viii) There can be no presumption that any class of accused- i.e. those accused of
particular crimes, or those belonging to the poorer sections, are likely to abscond.
(Para 32, Sibbia). (ix) Courts should exercise their discretion while considering applications for
anticipatory bail (as they do in the case of bail). It would be unwise to divest or limit
their discretion by prescribing “inflexible rules of general application.”. (Para 33,
Sibbia). (x) The apprehension of an applicant, who seeks anticipatory bail (about his
imminent or possible arrest) should be based on reasonable grounds, and rooted on
objective facts or materials, capable of examination and evaluation, by the court, and
not based on vague un-spelt apprehensions. (Para 35, Sibbia). (xi) The grounds for seeking anticipatory bail should be examined by the High Court
or Court of Session, which should not leave the question for decision by the concerned
Magistrate. (Para 36, Sibbia). (xii) Filing of FIR is not a condition precedent for exercising power under Section
438; it can be done on a showing of reasonable belief of imminent arrest (of the
applicant). (Para 37, Sibbia). (xiii) Anticipatory bail can be granted even after filing of an FIR- as long as the
applicant is not arrested. However, after arrest, an application for anticipatory bail is
not maintainable. (Para 38-39, Sibbia). (xiv) A blanket order under Section 438, directing the police to not arrest the
applicant, “wherever arrested and for whatever offence” should not be issued. An
order based on reasonable apprehension relating to specific facts (though not spelt out
with exactness) can be made. A blanket order would seriously interfere with the duties
of the police to enforce the law and prevent commission of offences in the future.
(Para 40-41, Sibbia). (xv) The public prosecutor should be issued notice, upon considering an application
under Section 438; an ad interim order can be made. The application “should be re- examined in the light of the respective contentions of the parties.” The ad interim
order too must conform to the requirements of the section and suitable conditions
should be imposed on the applicant even at that stage. “Should the operation of an
order passed under Section 438(1) be limited in point of time? Not necessarily. The
court may, if there are reasons for doing so, limit the operation of the order to a short
period until after the filing of an FIR in respect of the matter covered by the order. The
applicant may in such cases be directed to obtain an order of bail under Section 437
or 439 of the Code within a reasonably short period after the filing of the FIR as
aforesaid. But this need not be followed as an invariable rule. The normal rule should
be not to limit the operation of the order in relation to a period of time.” (Para 42,
Sibbia). 46. It is quite evident, therefore, that the pre-dominant thinking of the larger,
Constitution Bench, in Sibbia (supra), was that given the premium and the value that
the Constitution and Article 21 placed on liberty- and given that a tendency was
noticed, of harassment – at times by unwarranted arrests, the provision for anticipatory
bail was made. It was not hedged with any conditions or limitations- either as to its
duration, or as to the kind of alleged offences that an applicant was accused of having
committed. The courts had the discretion to impose such limitations (likeco-operation
with investigation, not tampering with evidence, not leaving the country etc) as were
reasonable and necessary in the peculiar circumstances of a given case. However,
there was no invariable or inflexible rule that the applicant had to make out a special
case, or that the relief was to be of limited duration, in a point of time, or was
unavailable for any particular class of offences. 47. At this stage, it would be essential to clear the air on the observations made in
some of the later cases about whether Section 438 is an essential element of Article 21. Some judgments, notably Ram Kishna Balothia & Anr. (supra) and Jai Prakash
Singh v State of Bihar31 held that the provision for anticipatory bail is not an essential
ingredient of Article 21 , particularly in the context of imposition of limitations on the
discretion of the courts while granting anticipatory bail, either limiting the relief in 31 2012 (4) SCC 379 96 point of time, or some other restriction in respect of the nature of the offence, or the
happening of an event. We are afraid, such observations are contrary to the broad
terms of the power declared by the Constitution Bench of this court in Sibbia (supra).
The larger bench had specifically held that an “over-generous infusion of constraints
and conditions which are not to be found in Section 438 can make its provisions
constitutionally vulnerable since the right to personal freedom cannot be made to
depend on compliance with unreasonable restrictions.” 48. In Gudikanti Narasimhulu v. Public Prosecutor32 this court observed that
 “. … Personal liberty, deprived when bail is refused, is too precious a value
 of our constitutional system recognised under Article 21 that the curial
 power to negate it is a great trust exercisable, not casually but judicially,
 with lively concern for the cost to the individual and the community. To
 glamorise impressionistic orders as discretionary may, on occasions, make
 a litigative gamble decisive of a fundamental right. After all, personal
 liberty of an accused or convict is fundamental, suffering lawful eclipse
 only in terms of “procedure established by law”. 49. The reason for enactment of Section 438 in the Code was Parliamentary
acceptance of the crucial underpinning of personal liberty in a free and democratic
country. Parliament wished to foster respect for personal liberty and accord primacy to
a fundamental tenet of criminal jurisprudence, that everyone is presumed to be
innocent till he or she is found guilty. Life and liberty are the cherished attributes of
every individual. The urge for freedom is natural to each human being. Section 438 is
a procedural provision concerned with the personal liberty of each individual, who is
entitled to the benefit of the presumption of innocence. As denial of bail amounts to
deprivation of personal liberty, the court should lean against the imposition of
unnecessary restrictions on the scope of Section 438, especially when not imposed by
the legislature. In Sibbia, it was observed that: 50. The interpretation of Section 438- that it does not encapsulate Article 21 , is
erroneous. This court is of the opinion that the issue is not whether Section 438 is an
intrinsic element of Article 21: it is rather whether that provision is part of fair 32 1978 (1) SCC 240 97 procedure. As to that, there can be no doubt that the provision for anticipatory bail is
pro-liberty and enables one anticipating arrest, a facility of approaching the court for a
direction that he or she not be arrested; it was specifically enacted as a measure of
protection against arbitrary arrests and humiliation by the police, which Parliament
itself recognized as a widespread malaise on the part of the police. 51. The forty first and forty-eight reports of the Law Commission were noticed by
this court in Sibbia (supra). Thereafter, the Law Commission, in its 154th report had
occasion to deal with the subject; it recommended no substantial change, - except
procedural additions to Section 438 and observed as follows: 52. The persistence of the phenomena unwarranted arrests was sharply criticised by
this court in Arnesh Kumar (supra), saying that the approach of the police continued to
be colonial despite six decades of independence, that the power of arrest is
 “…is largely considered as a tool of harassment, oppression and surely
 not considered a friend of public. The need for caution in exercising the

 either reject the application forthwith or issue an interim order for the grant
 of anticipatory bail: 53. Various reasons- given in judgments, rendered after Sibbia (supra), starting
with Salauddin (supra), have highlighted that anticipatory bail orders have to be
constrained by conditions, notably with reference to time (i.e. three months, etc) or till
the happening of a certain event. The reasons, and observations, limiting the duration
of grant of anticipatory bail are outlined below: 268th Report, 2017. (3) Custodial interrogation of “accused is indispensably necessary for the
 investigating agency” to unearth materials in criminal conspiracies (Ref. to
 unearth all the links involved in the criminal conspiracies” ( Bimal Krishna
 Kundu and Muraleedharan , [supra])

 (4) Imposing time limits (till filing of FIR, or filing of charge-sheet etc) would
 enable the court- which is seized of the main case and monitors it, to consider the
 nature and gravity of the offence, having regard to the fresh materials unearthed
 and included as prosecution evidence. Therefore, it would be salutary and in
 public interest to require courts to impose time limits for the life of orders of
 anticipatory bail the event of filing of FIR or charge sheet, are essential
 ingredients to an order under Section 438. (Salauddin, K.L. Verma, and Adri
 Dharan Das). Some decisions have also stressed that economic offences need a
 different approach and therefore, anticipatory bail should not be granted readily.36 54. A fuller consideration of the various decisions cited earlier, especially those
which emphasized the need to limit the life of an order of anticipatory bail, are
premised on the understanding that the grant of an unconditional order of bail would
thwart investigation. In the first place, this premise is unfounded, given that Sibbia (supra) stated (in para 13, SCC reports) that such an order would be “contrary to the 36 In P. Chidambaram v. Directorate of Enforcement , (2019) 9 SCC 24 it was held as
follows: Sudhir v. State of Maharashtra 2016 (1) SCC 146; and Directorate of Enforcement v. Hassan
Ali Khan (2011) 12 SCC 684. terms” of Section 438; and furthermore, that conditions mentioned in Section 438(2)
could be imposed while granting anticipatory bail. Here, one is conscious of the fact
that the requirement of imposing conditions is not compulsive (noticing the use of the
term “may” which precedes the requirement of imposing conditions). Nevertheless, an
unconditional order, in the sense of an order not even imposing conditions mentioned
in Section 438(2) can impede or hamper investigation, Sibbia (supra) held that the
conditions mentioned in that provision should be imposed. This requirement is more a
matter of prudence, while granting relief. 55. This court cannot lose sight of the fact that the Law Commission’s 41 st and 48th
report focused on the need to introduce the provision (for anticipatory bail) as a
preventive, or curative measure, to deal with a particular problem, i.e. unwarranted
arrests. Sibbia (supra) noticed this fact, and also that significantly, Section 438 is not
hedged with any obligation on the court’s power, to impose conditions. That situation
remains unchanged: the provision remains unaltered-at least substantially (barring an
amendment in 2005 which obliged the issuance of notice to the public prosecutor
before issuing any order for anticipatory bail)37. The 203rd Report of the Law
Commission, which reviewed the entire law on the subject and noticed later decisions, 37 The amendment, i.e. Criminal Procedure Code (Amendment) Act, 2005 – which has till
now, not been brought into force, reads as follows: such as Salauddin, Adari Narain Das, etc, recommended no change in law on this
aspect relating to conditions. In this background, it is important to notice that the only
bar, or restriction, imposed by Parliament upon the exercise of the power (to grant
anticipatory bail) is by way of a positive restriction, i.e. in the case where accused are
alleged to have committed offences punishable under Section 376(3) or Section
376AB or Section 376DA or Section 376DB of the Indian Penal Code. In other words,
Parliament has now denied jurisdiction of the courts (i.e. Court of Session and High
Courts) from granting anticipatory bail to those accused of such offences. The
amendment (Code of Criminal Procedure Amendment Act, 2018) introduced Section
438(4)) reads as follows: section (3) of section 376 or section 376AB or section 376DA or section
 376DB of the Indian Penal Code." Provided that where the High Court or as the case may be the Court of
 Session has not passed any interim order under this sub-section or has rejected
 the application for grant of anticipatory bail it shall be open to an officer in
 charge of police station to arrest without warrant the applicant on the basis of
 the accusation apprehended in such application
 (IA) Where the Courts grants an interim order under sub-section (1), it
 shall forthwith cause a notice being not less than seven days notice, together
 with the copy of such order to be served on the Public Prosecutor and the
 Superintendent of Police, with a view to give the Public Prosecutor a
 reasonable opportunity of being heard when the application shall be finally
 heard by the Court
 (IB) The presence of the applicant seeking anticipatory bail shall be
 obligatory at the time of final hearing of the application and passing of final
 order by the Court, if on an application made to it by the Public Prosecutor, the
 Court considers such presence necessary in the interest of justice.] 103 56. Clearly, therefore, where the Parliament wished to exclude or restrict the power
of courts, under Seciton 438 of the Code, it did so in categorical terms. Parliament’s
omission to restrict the right of citizens, accused of other offences from the right to
seek anticipatory bail, necessarily leads one to assume that neither a blanket
restriction can be read into by this court, nor can inflexible guidelines in the exercise
of discretion, be insisted upon- that would amount to judicial legislation. 57. Turning now to the various concerns that impelled this court in Salauddin, K.L.
Verma, Sunita Devi; Nirmal Jeet Kaur and Adri Dharan Das, HDFC Bank, J.J.
Manan (supra) and other decisions which outlined the various concerns and problems
faced by the prosecuting agency, or the police, or that competent courts would be
deprived of oversight, thus, leading to directions that courts should impose time
restrictions, or grant temporary or limited bail (e.g. filing of charge sheet etc.), this
court proposes to deal with such reasoning hereafter. 58. The various reasons which led to the imposition of restrictions or limitations by
the decisions noted previously, hinge upon factors such as: addition of graver offences
which the applicant is alleged to have committed after the grant of anticipatory bail;
unearthing of facts disclosing his or her complicity in serious offences, as for instance,
a conspirator or kingpin; the accused’s non-cooperation in the course of investigation,
(such as, for example, difficulty in securing his person, evasion by him, reluctance to
answer questions during the investigation or providing statements for purposes of
recovery of articles in terms of Section 27 of the Evidence Act); involvement in very
serious or grave offences such as murder, kidnapping, causing death under unusual
circumstances and offences which undermine the economy; disclosure of information
that the offence involves large scale fraud and several individuals or victims, and, the
filing of charge-sheet. Each of or all of them put together, in the opinion of the court,
neither hold insurmountable problem, nor are unforeseen situations or not anticipated
in Sibbia (supra). 59. The controlling expressions under Section 438(2) spell out three distinct
conditions, which the court granting anticipatory bail can include as directions. These
are- that the applicant makes himself available for interrogation by police officer, as 104 and when required; that such applicant should not directly or indirectly make any
inducement, threat or promise to any person acquainted with the facts of the case so as
to dissuade him from disclosing such facts to the court or to any police officer; a
condition that the person should not leave India without the permission of the court.
Further conditions as may be deemed essential, may also be imposed by the court,
under Section 437(3). The Court in Sibbia (supra) was alive to the necessity of
imposing conditions as is evident from para 13 of its judgment. The court observed
that there was nothing in law which stated that whenever anticipatory bail is granted,
it should be without imposing any of those conditions. Sibbia (supra) went on to state
that such unconditional orders would be plainly contrary to the very terms of Section 438. The court also noted that though couched in discretionary terms, which means
that the courts could impose those conditions, perhaps viewed pragmatically, they
should do so. What this court in Sibbia (supra) was concerned with, and cautioned
other courts against was that the process of construction and interpretation ought not
to compel the courts to “cut down by reading into the statute conditions which are not
to be found therein.” 60. The context and nature which Sibbia (supra) considered is that discretion ought
to be exercised by the Full Bench judgment of the Punjab and Haryana High Court
which cautioned that the power to grant anticipatory bail should be used sparingly and
in exceptional cases and that all conditions under Section 437 should be read into in
Section 438. Furthermore, the High Court had required that an applicant ought to
make out a special case for grant of anticipatory bail; it was also stated that in cases
wherever remand was sought, or a reasonable cause to secure incriminating material
in terms of Section 27 of the Evidence Act could be made out, anticipatory bail ought
not to be granted and that it could not be granted in regard to offences punishable with
death or imprisonment for life unless the court is satisfied that the charge was false or
groundless. The court in Sibbia (supra) frowned upon imposition of such rules after
interpreting and in the course of the judgment held that the power to grant anticipatory
bail is wide and that the discretion is not limited in the manner that the High Court
suggested. At the same time, this court also emphasized that the discretion had to be 105 exercised while granting or refusing to grant in given cases on due application of mind
and in a judicious manner. 61. The imposition of conditions under Section 438(2) with reference to Section
437(3), in the opinion of this court, is enough safeguard for the authorities – including
the police and other investigating agencies, who have to investigate into crimes and
the possible complicity of the applicants who seek such relief. Taking each concern,
i.e. the addition of more serious offences; presence of a large number of individuals or
complainants; possibility of non-cooperation - non-cooperation in the investigation or
the requirement of the accused’s statement to aid the recovery of articles and
incriminating articles in the course of statements made during investigations – it is
noticeable, significantly, that each of these is contemplated as a condition and is
invariably included in every order granting anticipatory bail. In the event of violation
or alleged violation of these, the concerned authority is not remediless; recourse can
be had to Section 438(2) read with Section 437(3). Any violation of these terms would
attract a direction to arrest him. This power or direction to arrest is found in Section
437(5). However, that provision has no textual application to regular bail granted by
the Court of Sessions or High Courts under Section 439 or directions not to arrest, i.e.
order of anticipatory bail under Section 438. Secondly, Section 439(2) which is cast in
wide terms, adequately covers situations when an accused does not cooperate during
the investigation or threatens to, or intimidates witness[es] or tries to tamper with
other evidence. 62. It is important to notice, here that there is nothing in the provisions of Section
438 which suggests that Parliament intended to restrict its operation, either as regards
the time period, or in terms of the nature of the offences in respect of which, an
applicant had to be denied bail, or which special considerations were to apply. In this
context, it is relevant to recollect that the court would avoid imposing restrictions or
conditions in a provision in the absence of an apparent or manifest absurdity, flowing
from the plain and literal interpretation of the statute (Ref Chandra Mohan v. State of
Uttar Pradesh & Ors38). In Reserve Bank of India v. Peerless General Finance and 38 1967 (1) SCR 77 106 Investment Co. Ltd. & Ors39, the relevance of text and context was emphasized in the
following terms: observed that by no stretch of imagination a Judge is entitled to add something more
than what is there in the statute by way of a supposed intention of the legislature. The
cardinal principle of construction of statute is that the true or legal meaning of an
enactment is derived by considering the meaning of the words used in the enactment
in the light of any discernible purpose or object which comprehends the mischief and
its remedy to which the enactment is directed. It is sufficient, therefore to notice that
when Section 438 – in the form that exists today, (which is not substantially different 39 1987 (1) SCC 424 40 1994 (3) SCC 440 41 1975 (2) SCC 810 107 from the text of what was introduced when Sibbia was decided, except the insertion of
sub-section (4)) was enacted, Parliament was aware of the objective circumstances
and prevailing facts, which impelled it to introduce that provision, without the kind of
conditions that the state advocates to be intrinsically imposed in every order under it. 65. The narrower interpretation preferred by this Court - in line of decisions
starting with Salauddin (supra) highlighting the concerns with respect to the stages of
investigation and enquiry and the nature and seriousness of the offence, in the opinion
of the Court, ought not to lead one to cutting down the amplitude and the power and
discretion otherwise available with the Courts. The danger of this Court prescribing
the limitations is that they become inflexible rules or edicts incapable of deviation.
Instead, it would be safer to say that where there are circumstances or facts which
pose peculiar problems or complexities pointing to the seriousness of an offence
which the accused is implicated in, it is always open to courts (which have to deal
with applications under Section 438) to impose the needed restrictions – be that in
point of time or at the stage of investigation or enquiry. Each of these peculiar
conditions may be imposed in the given circumstances of any case, which has those
distinctive or special features. But they should not always be imposed invariably in all
cases. In other words, if this Court were to weave conditions to impose and read into
Section 438 that are not expressly provided, the danger would be that several
applicants who might otherwise be entitled to relief, would be denied it altogether. For
example, the classification of an offence or a category of offences as one wanting
special treatment where the Courts should not grant relief, would mean that regardless
of the role of the accused and the nature of materials shown (whether adequate or not),
the courts would be rendered powerless and denuded of the otherwise amplitude of
discretion provided by the statute. 66. As regards the concern expressed on behalf of the state and the Union- that
unconditional orders (i.e. those unrelated to a particular time frame) would result in
non-co-operation of the accused, with the investigating officer or authority, or that
there would be reluctance to make statements to the prosecution, to assist in the
recovery of articles that incriminate the accused (and therefore can be used under 108 Section 27 , Evidence Act), this court perceives such views to be vague and based
apparently pre-conceived notions. If there is non-cooperation by an accused – in the
course of investigation, the remedy of seeking assistance of the court exists.
Moreover, on this aspect too, Sibbia had envisioned the situation; the court had cited State of U.P. v Deoman Upadhyaya42 , where this court had observed as follows: 241). Exceptional cases may certainly be imagined in which a person may
 give information without presenting himself before a police officer who is
 investigating an offence. For instance, he may write a letter and give such
 information or may send a telephonic or other message to the police
 officer.”
 This view was reiterated and applied in Vallabhdas Liladhar v Asst . Collector
of Customs43. The observations in Sibbia (supra) are relevant, and are reproduced
again, for facility of reference: 67. Now, coming to the instruction in some decisions that anticipatory bail should
not be given, or granted with stringent conditions, upon satisfaction that the accused is
not involved, Sibbia, clearly disapproved the imposition of such restrictions, or ruling
out of certain offences or adoption of a cautious or special approach. It was held that: How can the Court, even if it had a third eye, assess the blatantness of
 corruption at the stage of anticipatory bail? And will it be correct to say
 that blatantness of the accusation will suffice for rejecting bail, even if the
 applicant's conduct is painted in colours too lurid to be true? The eighth
 proposition rule framed by the High Court says: Does this rule mean, and that is the argument of the learned Additional
 Solicitor-General, that the anticipatory bail cannot be granted unless it is
 alleged (and naturally, also shown, because mere allegation is never
 enough) that the proposed accusations are mala fide ? It is understandable
 that if mala fides are shown anticipatory bail should be granted in the
 generality of cases. But it is not easy to appreciate why an application for
 anticipatory bail must be rejected unless the accusation is shown to be mala
 fide. This, truly, is the risk involved in framing rules by judicial
 construction. Discretion, therefore, ought to be permitted to remain in the
 domain of discretion, to be exercised objectively and open to correction by
 the higher courts. The safety of discretionary power lies in this twin
 protection which provides a safeguard against its abuse. According to the sixth proposition framed by the High Court, the discretion
 under Section 438cannot be exercised in regard to offences punishable with 110 death or imprisonment for life unless, the court at the stage of granting
 anticipatory bail, is satisfied that such a charge appears to be false or
 groundless. Now, Section 438 confers on the High Court and the Court of
 Session the power to grant anticipatory bail if the applicant has reason to
 believe that he may be arrested on an accusation of having committed "a
 non-bailable offence". We see no warrant for reading into this provision the
 conditions subject to which bail can be granted under Section 437 (1) of the
 Code. That section, while conferring the power to grant bail in cases of
 non-bailable offences, provides by way of an exception that a person
 accused or suspected of the commission of a non-bailable offence "shall not
 be so released" if there appear to be reasonable grounds for believing that
 he has been guilty of an offence punishable with death or imprisonment for
 life. If it was intended that the exception contained in Section 437
 (1) should govern the grant of relief under Section 438 (1), nothing would
 have been easier for the legislature than to introduce into the latter section
 a similar provision. We have already pointed out the basic distinction
 between these two sections. Section 437 applies only after a person, who is
 alleged to have committed a non-bailable offence, is arrested or detained
 without warrant or appears or is brought before a court. Section
 438 applies before the arrest is made and, in fact, one of the pre-conditions
 of its application is that the person, who applies for relief under it, must be
 able to show that he has reason to believe that "he may be arrested", which
 plainly means that he is not yet arrested. The nexus which this distinction
 bears with the grant or refusal of bail is that in cases falling under Section
 437, there is some concrete data on the basis of which it is possible to show
 that there appear to be reasonable grounds for believing that the applicant
 has been guilty of an offence punishable with death or imprisonment for
 life. In cases falling under Section 438 that stage is still to arrive and, in the
 generality of cases thereunder, it would be premature and indeed difficult to
 predicate that there are or are not reasonable grounds for so believing. The
 foundation of the belief spoken of in Section 437 (1), by reason of which the
 court cannot release the applicant on bail is, normally, the credibility of the
 allegations contained in the First Information Report.” 68. For the above reasons, the answer to the first question in the reference made to
this bench is that there is no offence, per se, which stands excluded from the purview
of Section 438, - except the offences mentioned in Section 438 (4). In other words,
anticipatory bail can be granted, having regard to all the circumstances, in respect of
all offences. At the same time, if there are indications in any special law or statute,
which exclude relief under Section 438 (1) they would have to be duly considered.
Also, whether anticipatory offences should be granted, in the given facts and
circumstances of any case, where the allegations relating to the commission of 111 offences of a serious nature, with certain special conditions, is a matter of discretion to
be exercised, having regard to the nature of the offences, the facts shown, the
background of the applicant, the likelihood of his fleeing justice (or not fleeing
justice); likelihood of co-operation or non-co-operation with the investigating agency
or police, etc. There can be no inflexible time frame for which an order of anticipatory
bail can continue. 69. Therefore, this court holds that the view expressed in Salauddin Abdulsamad
Shaikh, K.L. Verma, Nirmal Jeet Kaur, Satpal Singh, Adri Dharan Das, HDFC Bank,
J.J. Manan and Naresh Kumar Yadav (supra) about the Court of Sessions, or the High
Court, being obliged to grant anticipatory bail, for a limited duration, or to await the
course of investigation, so as the “normal court” not being “bye passed” or that in
certain kinds of serious offences, anticipatory bail should not be granted normally-
including in economic offences, etc are not good law. The observations – which
indicate that such time related or investigative event related conditions, should
invariably be imposed at the time of grant of anticipatory bail are therefore, overruled.
Similarly, the observations in Mhetre that “the courts should not impose restrictions
on the ambit and scope of section 438 Cr.P.C. which are not envisaged by the
Legislature. The court cannot rewrite the provision of the statute in the garb of
interpreting it” is too wide and cannot be considered good law. It is one thing to say
that as a matter of law, ordinarily special conditions (not mentioned in Section 438 (2)
read with Section 437 (3) should not be imposed; it is an entirely different thing to say
that in particular instances, having regard to the nature of the crime, the role of the
accused, or some peculiar feature, special conditions should not be imposed. The
judgment in Sibbia itself is an authority that such conditions can be imposed, but not
in a routine or ordinary manner and that such conditions then become an inflexible
“formula” which the courts would have to follow. Therefore, courts and can, use their
discretion, having regard to the offence, the peculiar facts, the role of the offender,
circumstances relating to him, his likelihood of subverting justice (or a fair
investigation), likelihood of evading or fleeing justice- to impose special conditions.
Imposing such conditions, would have to be on a case to case basis, and upon exercise
of discretion by the court seized of the application under Section 438. In conclusion, it 112 is held that imposing conditions such as those stated in Section 437 (2) while granting
bail, are normal; equally, the condition that in the event of the police making out a
case of a likely discovery under Section 27 of the Evidence Act, person released on
bail shall be liable to be taken in police custody for facilitating the discovery. Other
conditions, which are restrictive, are not mandatory; nor is there any invariable rule
that they should necessarily be imposed or that the anticipatory bail order would be for
a time duration, or be valid till the filing of the FIR, or the recording of any statement
under Section 161 , Cr. PC, etc. Other conditions may be imposed, if the facts of the
case so warrant. Re Question No. 2: Whether the life of an anticipatory bail should end at the
 time and stage when the accused is summoned by the court. 70. The question here is whether there is anything in the law which per se requires
that upon filing of the charge-sheet, or the summoning of the accused, by the court –
(or even the addition of an offence in the charge-sheet, of which an applicant on bail
is accused of freshly), his liberty ought to be forfeited and that he should be asked to
surrender and apply for regular bail. The observations about the width and amplitude
of the power under Section 438, made in answer to the first question, are equally
relevant here too. In the present context, further, the judgment and observations of this
Court in its interpretation of Section 167(2) are telling. It was held in Gursharan
Singh (supra), the release by grant of bail of an accused under Section 167(2) amounts
to “deemed bail”. This is borne out by Section 167(2) which states that anyone
released on bail under its provision “shall be deemed to be so released under the
provisions of Chapter XXXIII for the purposes of that Chapter.” The judgment in
Aslam Babalal Desai (supra) has clarified that when an accused is released by
operation of Section 167(2) and subsequently, a charge-sheet is filed, there is no
question of the cancellation of his bail. In these circumstances, the mere fact that an
accused is given relief under Section 438 at one stage, per se does not mean that upon
the filing of a charge-sheet, he is necessarily to surrender or/and apply for regular bail.
The analogy to ‘deemed bail’ under Section 167(2) with anticipatory bail leads this
court to conclude that the mere subsequent event of the filing of a charge-sheet cannot 113 compel the accused to surrender and seek regular bail. As a matter of fact,
interestingly, if indeed, if a charge-sheet is filed where the accused is on anticipatory
bail, the normal implication would be that there was no occasion for the investigating
agency or the police to require his custody, because there would have been nothing in
his behavior requiring such a step. In other words, an accused, who is granted
anticipatory bail would continue to be at liberty when the charge sheet is filed, the
natural implication is that there is no occasion for a direction by the Court that he be
arrested and further that he had cooperated with the investigation. At the same time,
however, at any time during the investigation were any occasion to arise calling for
intervention of the court for infraction of any of the conditions imposed under Section
437(3) read with Section 438(2) or the violation of any other condition imposed in the
given facts of a case, recourse can always be had under Section 439(2). 71. Section 438 (3) states that when a person is granted anticipatory bail, is later
arrested without warrant by an officer in charge of a police station “on such
accusation”, and is willing to give bail, “he shall be released on bail; and if a
Magistrate taking cognizance of such offence decides that a warrant should issue in
the first instance against that person he shall issue a bailable warrant in conformity
with the direction of the Court under sub-section (1)”. The order granting anticipatory
bail, is also- as noticed earlier, and in several previous decisions, a “direction” under
this Section 438 “that in the event of such arrest” the applicant be released on bail.
Therefore, when an accused in fact is granted bail, and the conditions outlined in
Section 438 (2) are included as part of the direction “to release” him in the event of
arrest, all the necessary conditions which he is obliged to follow exist. Section 438 (3)
outlines the steps to be taken, in the event of arrest of one who has been granted relief
under Section 438 (1). In the event of non-compliance with any or all conditions,
imposed by the court, the concerned agency or the police, a direction can be sought
from the court under Section 439 (2). 72. The view that this court expresses about the prosecution’s option to apply for a
direction to arrest the accused, finds support in Pradeep Ram (supra) where this court
held as follows: (iii) The Court, in exercise of power under Sections 437 (5) or 439 (2) of Cr.PC ., can direct for taking into custody the accused who has already been
 granted bail after cancellation of his bail. The Court in exercise of power
 under Sections 437 (5) as well as 439 (2) can direct the person who has
 already been granted bail to be arrested and commit him to custody
 on addition of graver and non-cognizable offences which may not be
 necessary always with order of cancelling of earlier bail. (iv) In a case where an accused has already been granted bail, the
 investigating authority on addition of an offence or offences may not
 proceed to arrest the accused, but for arresting the accused on such
 addition of offence or offences it need to obtain an order to arrest the
 accused from the Court which had granted the bail.” 73. Earlier, in the decision reported as Dolat Ram v State of Haryana44 this court
had observed that

 “bail once granted should not be cancelled in a mechanical manner without
 considering whether any supervening circumstances have rendered it no
 longer conducive to a fair trial to allow the accused to retain his freedom by
 enjoying the concession of bail during the trial.” 74. This decision was followed, and its ratio applied, in Hazari Lal Das v State of
West Bengal & Anr45 . The decision in Bhadresh Bipinbhai Sheth v. State of Gujarat46 stated, after culling out the principles in Mhetre, as follows: 75. The three-judge decision in Sudhir v. Maharastra47 noticed the decision in Bipin Bhadresh Sheth (supra) and did not disapprove it. However, the court did not
grant relief, given that anticipatory bail was declined initially, and the application to
the High Court was withdrawn, after which a second anticipatory bail was granted.
The High Court cancelled the grant of relief. This court affirmed the High Court’s
view. In that judgment, Bipin Bhadresh Sheth was noticed, while considering the
scope of the power under Section 439 (2). In another decision, Arvind Tiwary v. State
of Bihar48 the issue was whether the anticipatory bail, granted subject to certain
conditions, earlier, which had been considered by this court, could be cancelled. The
conditions included, inter alia, that sums were to be secured by bank guarantee. The
aggrieved corporation directed that the “defalcated sum” specified in respect of every
accused should be secured through such guarantee. Upon failure to comply with that
demand, an order of cancellation was sought. This court held that cancellation could
not be resorted to on the assumption that the applicants were guilty. Similarly, in
Mahant Chand Yogi v. State of Haryana,49 Padmakar Tukaam Bhavnagare v. State of
Maharastra,50 X v. State of Telangana, 51
 and several other judgments the same views
were expressed. 76. Therefore, unless circumstances to the contrary: in the form of behaviour of the
accused suggestive of his fleeing from justice, or evading the authority or jurisdiction 47 2016 (1) SCC 146 48 2018 (8) SCC 475 49 2003 (1) SCC 236 50 2012 (13) SCC 720 51 (2018) 16 SCC 511 118 of the court, or his intimidating witnesses, or trying to intimidate them, or violate any
condition imposed while granting anticipatory bail, the law does not require the
person to surrender to the court upon summons for trial being served on him. Subject
to compliance with the conditions imposed, the anticipatory bail given to a person, can
continue till end of the trial. This answers question No. 2 referred to the present
Bench. Conclusions 77. This court answers the reference in the following manner: it should inure in favour of the accused without any restriction as to time. Usual
 or standard conditions under Section 437 (3) read with Section 438 (2) should
 be imposed; if there are peculiar features in regard to any crime or offence
 (such as seriousness or gravity etc.), it is open to the court to impose any
 appropriate condition (including fixed nature of relief, or its being tied to an
 event or time bound) etc.

 (2) The second question referred to this court is answered, by holding that the
 life of an anticipatory bail does not end generally at the time and stage when
 the accused is summoned by the court, or after framing charges, but can also
 continue till the end of the trial. However, if there are any special or peculiar
 features necessitating the court to limit the tenure of anticipatory bail, it is open
 for it to do so. 78. Having regard to the above discussion, it is clarified that the court should keep
the following points as guiding principles, in dealing with applications under Section
438, Cr. PC: PC [by virtue of Section 438 (2)]. The necessity to impose other restrictive
 conditions, would have to be weighed on a case by case basis, and
 depending upon the materials produced by the state or the investigating
 agency. Such special or other restrictive conditions may be imposed if the
 case or cases warrant, but should not be imposed in a routine manner, in all
 cases. Likewise, conditions which limit the grant of anticipatory bail may
 be granted, if they are required in the facts of any case or cases; however,
 such limiting conditions may not be invariably imposed. (d) Courts ought to be generally guided by the considerations such nature
 and gravity of the offences, the role attributed to the applicant, and the facts
 of the case, while assessing whether to grant anticipatory bail, or refusing it.
 Whether to grant or not is a matter of discretion; equally whether, and if so,
 what kind of special conditions are to be imposed (or not imposed) are
 dependent on facts of the case, and subject to the discretion of the court. (e) Anticipatory bail granted can, depending on the conduct and behavior of
 the accused, continue after filing of the charge sheet till end of trial. Also
 orders of anticipatory bail should not be “blanket” in the sense that it should
 not enable the accused to commit further offences and claim relief. It should
 be confined to the offence or incident, for which apprehension of arrest is
 sought, in relation to a specific incident. It cannot operate in respect of a
 future incident that involves commission of an offence. (f) Orders of anticipatory bail do not in any manner limit or restrict the rights
 or duties of the police or investigating agency, to investigate into the
 charges against the person who seeks and is granted pre-arrest bail. (g) The observations in Sibbia regarding “limited custody” or “deemed
 custody” to facilitate the requirements of the investigative authority, would
 be sufficient for the purpose of fulfilling the provisions of Section 27 , in the
 event of recovery of an article, or discovery of a fact, which is relatable to a
 statement made during such event (i.e. deemed custody). In such event,
 there is no question (or necessity) of asking the accused to separately
 surrender and seek regular bail. Sibbia (supra) had observed that “if and
 when the occasion arises, it may be possible for the prosecution to claim
 the benefit of Section 27 of the Evidence Act in regard to a discovery of
 facts made in pursuance of information supplied by a person released on
 bail by invoking the principle stated by this Court in State of U.P. v
 Deoman Upadhyaya.” 121 (h) It is open to the police or the investigating agency to move the court
 concerned, which granted anticipatory bail, in the first instance, for a
 direction under Section 439 (2) to arrest the accused, in the event of
 violation of any term, such as absconding, non-cooperating during
 investigation, evasion, intimidation or inducement to witnesses with a view
 to influence outcome of the investigation or trial, etc. The court – in this
 context is the court which grants anticipatory bail, in the first instance,
 according to prevailing authorities. (i) The correctness of an order granting bail, can be considered by the appellate
 or superior court at the behest of the state or investigating agency, and set
 aside on the ground that the court granting it did not consider material facts
 or crucial circumstances. (See Prakash Kadam & Etc. Etc vs Ramprasad
 Vishwanath Gupta & Anr52 ; Jai Prakash Singh (supra) State through C.B.I.
 vs. Amarmani Tripathi53 ). This does not amount to “cancellation” in terms
 of Section 439 (2), Cr. PC. (j) The judgment in Mhetre (and other similar decisions) restrictive conditions
 cannot be imposed at all, at the time of granting anticipatory bail are hereby
 overruled. Likewise, the decision in Salauddin and subsequent decisions
 (including K.L. Verma, Nirmal Jeet Kaur) which state that such restrictive
 conditions, or terms limiting the grant of anticipatory bail, to a period of
 time are hereby overruled. 79. In conclusion, it would be useful to remind oneself that the rights which the
citizens cherish deeply, are fundamental- it is not the restrictions that are fundamental.
Joseph Story, the great jurist and US Supreme Court judge, remarked that “personal
security and private property rest entirely upon the wisdom, the stability, and the
integrity of the courts of justice." (2011) 6 SCC 189 53 (2005) 8 SCC 21 122 80. The history of our republic – and indeed, the freedom movement has shown
how the likelihood of arbitrary arrest and indefinite detention and the lack of
safeguards played an important role in rallying the people to demand independence.
Witness the Rowlatt Act, the nationwide protests against it, the Jallianwalla Bagh
massacre and several other incidents, where the general public were exercising their
right to protest but were brutally suppressed and eventually jailed for long. The
specter of arbitrary and heavy-handed arrests: too often, to harass and humiliate
citizens, and oftentimes, at the interest of powerful individuals (and not to further any
meaningful investigation into offences) led to the enactment of Section 438. Despite
several Law commission reports and recommendations of several committees and
commissions, arbitrary and groundless arrests continue as a pervasive phenomenon.
Parliament has not thought it appropriate to curtail the power or discretion of the
courts, in granting pre-arrest or anticipatory bail, especially regarding the duration, or
till charge sheet is filed, or in serious crimes. Therefore, it would not be in the larger
interests of society if the court, by judicial interpretation, limits the exercise of that
power: the danger of such an exercise would be that in fractions, little by little, the
discretion, advisedly kept wide, would shrink to a very narrow and unrecognizably
tiny portion, thus frustrating the objective behind the provision, which has stood the
test of time, these 46 years. 81. The reference is hereby answered in the above terms. .............................................J.
 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT]
New Delhi,
January 29, 2020. SPECIAL LEAVE PETITION (CRIMINAL) NO (s). 7281-7282 OF 2017

SUSHILA AGGARWAL & ORS. ...APPELLANT(S)

 VERSUS

STATE (NCT OF DELHI) & ANR. ...RESPONDENT(S)

 ______

 We have seen the drafts of Justice M.R. Shah and Justice S. Ravindra

Bhat and are in agreement with them. Since there is no difference of opinion

between the two, we are in agreement with the reasoning of Justice M.R. Shah

and Justice S. Ravindra Bhat that the conclusions in Shri Gurbaksh Singh

Sibbia and others v. State of Punjab 1980 (2) SCC 565 needs reiteration and

further that the restrictive manner in which Section 438 of the Cr.PC has been

interpreted in Salauddin Abdulsamad Shaikh v. State of Maharashtra 1996 (1)

SCC 667 is incorrect. Therefore, we agree that Salauddin (supra) and other

cases which have followed it needs to be overruled. Similarly, the wide

interpretation in Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre v. State of Maharashtra & Ors . 2011 (1) SCC 694, i.e. that no conditions can be imposed while granting an

order of anticipatory bail, is incorrect. Mhetre (supra) to that extent and other

judgments which have followed it are accordingly overruled. In view of the said conclusions, we are in agreement with the answers to

the reference made to the larger Bench. .............................................J.
 [ARUN MISHRA]

 .............................................J.
 [INDIRA BANERJEE]

 .............................................J.
 [VINEET SARAN]
New Delhi; January 29, 2020. SPECIAL LEAVE PETITION (CRIMINAL) NO (s). 7281­7282 OF 2017 SUSHILA AGGARWAL & ORS. ...APPELLANT(S)

 VERSUS

STATE (NCT OF DELHI) & ANR. ...RESPONDENT(S)

 ______

 FINAL CONCLUSIONS: 1. This court, in the light of the above discussion in the two

 judgments, and in the light of the answers to the reference,

 hereby clarifies that the following need to be kept in mind by

 courts, dealing with applications under Section 438, Cr. PC: Likewise, conditions which limit the grant of anticipatory bail

 may be granted, if they are required in the facts of any case or

 cases; however, such limiting conditions may not be

 invariably imposed. (4) Courts ought to be generally guided by considerations such as

 the nature and gravity of the offences, the role attributed to

 the applicant, and the facts of the case, while considering

 whether to grant anticipatory bail, or refuse it. Whether to

 grant or not is a matter of discretion; equally whether and if

 so, what kind of special conditions are to be imposed (or not

 imposed) are dependent on facts of the case, and subject to

 the discretion of the court. (5) Anticipatory bail granted can, depending on the conduct and

 behavior of the accused, continue after filing of the charge

 sheet till end of trial. (6) An order of anticipatory bail should not be “blanket” in the

 sense that it should not enable the accused to commit further

 offences and claim relief of indefinite protection from arrest. It

 should be confined to the offence or incident, for which

 apprehension of arrest is sought, in relation to a specific

 incident. It cannot operate in respect of a future incident that

 involves commission of an offence. (7) An order of anticipatory bail does not in any manner limit or

 restrict the rights or duties of the police or investigating

 agency, to investigate into the charges against the person who

 seeks and is granted pre­arrest bail. (8) The observations in Sibbia regarding “limited custody” or

 “deemed custody” to facilitate the requirements of the

 investigative authority, would be sufficient for the purpose of

 fulfilling the provisions of Section 27 , in the event of recovery

 of an article, or discovery of a fact, which is relatable to a

 statement made during such event (i.e deemed custody). In

 such event, there is no question (or necessity) of asking the 130 accused to separately surrender and seek regular bail. Sibbia (supra) had observed that “if and when the occasion arises, it

 may be possible for the prosecution to claim the benefit of Section 27 of the Evidence Act in regard to a discovery of facts

 made in pursuance of information supplied by a person

 released on bail by invoking the principle stated by this Court

 in State of U.P. v Deoman Upadhyaya.” (9) It is open to the police or the investigating agency to move the

 court concerned, which grants anticipatory bail, for a

 direction under Section 439 (2) to arrest the accused, in the

 event of violation of any term, such as absconding, non­

 cooperating during investigation, evasion, intimidation or

 inducement to witnesses with a view to influence outcome of

 the investigation or trial, etc.

(10) The court referred to in para (9) above is the court which

 grants anticipatory bail, in the first instance, according to

 prevailing authorities. (11) The correctness of an order granting bail, can be

 considered by the appellate or superior court at the behest of

 the state or investigating agency, and set aside on the ground

 that the court granting it did not consider material facts or 131 crucial circumstances. (See Prakash Kadam & Etc. Etc vs

 Ramprasad Vishwanath Gupta & Anr55 ; Jai Prakash Singh (supra) State through C.B.I. vs. Amarmani Tripathi 56 ). This

 does not amount to “cancellation” in terms of Section 439 (2),

 Cr. PC. (12) The observations in Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre v. State

 of Maharashtra & Ors57 (and other similar judgments) that no

 restrictive conditions at all can be imposed, while granting

 anticipatory bail are hereby overruled. Likewise, the decision

 in Salauddin Abdulsamad Shaikh v. State of Maharashtra 58

 and subsequent decisions (including K.L. Verma v. State &

 Anr59; Sunita Devi v. State of Bihar & Anr 60; Adri Dharan Das v. State of West Bengal61; Nirmal Jeet Kaur v. State of M.P. &

 Anr62; HDFC Bank Limited v. J.J. Mannan 63; Satpal Singh v. (2011) 6 SCC 189 56 (2005) 8 SCC 21 57 2011 (1) SCC 694 58 (1996 (1) SCC 667) 59 1998 (9) SCC 348 60 2005 (1) SCC 608 61 2005 (4) SCC 303 62 2004 (7) SCC 558 63 2010 (1) SCC 679 132 the State of Punjab64 and Naresh Kumar Yadav v Ravindra

 Kumar65) which lay down such restrictive conditions, or terms

 limiting the grant of anticipatory bail, to a period of time are

 hereby overruled. 2. The reference is hereby answered in the above terms. .............................................J.
 [ARUN MISHRA]

 .............................................J.
 [INDIRA BANERJEE]

 .............................................J.
 [VINEET SARAN]

 .............................................J.
 [M.R. SHAH]

 .............................................J.
 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT]

New Delhi; January 29, 2020.. 2018 SCC Online (SC 415 65 2008 (1) SCC 632 133