Advocates who appeared in this case:- 2. The case of the prosecution is that on 19.04.2004 at 4.05 a.m.
DD No. 28A Ex. PW15/A was got recorded at Police Station
Welcome on receiving information from Wireless Operator of P.S.
Welcome to the effect that a quarrel had taken place at WP-17,
Baghwali Masjid. The same was marked to ASI Lal Chand PW-9.
PW20 Inspector Anand Sagar along with PW9 ASI Lal Chand and
PW12 Constable Dharmender reached Baghwali Masjid where PW14
Constable Bhagat Singh and Constable Jagat Singh were already
present. From there they came to House No. H-232, Janta Colony,
where the dead body of a young boy was lying on the floor. The same
was identified as that of Feroz s/o Babu R/o House No. A-72, Janta
Colony. The deceased was wearing white baniyan and blue
underwear. His pant and shirt were lying near the dead body. On
investigation, injuries were found on nose, neck, left shoulder, back of
the neck and both the hands. Ligature mark was also found on the
neck. The mother of deceased, Tabassum @ Kaalo (PW2), was also
present there. She made a statement Ex.PW2/A to the police wherein
she had stated that Feroz was her son. He had taken a loan of `
1,000/- (udhaar) from appellant Chand Mohammed who was living in
the same locality. As her son could not return the money, appellant
Chand Mohammad, his brother Taj and their cousin Akil had been Crl.A. 757/2009 Page 2 of 22 coming to her house 2-3 days prior to the date of incident and were
demanding money from Feroz and were also threatening to kill him in
case ` 1,000/- was not returned. She told them that she would be
returning their money very soon and they should not extend threats of
killing him. 3. On 18.04.2004 at about 7.30 p.m., all the three appellants had
come to her house and took Feroz with them on the pretext that they
had to talk about something with him. She requested them not to beat
her son as she would be returning the money. Appellant Chand
Mohammad assured that after talking to Feroz they would send him
back. At about 12.30 a.m. on the night intervening 18/19.04.2004,
appellants Chand Mohammad and Akil came to her house. Appellant
Akil told her that they had beaten Feroz and had also removed his
clothes and Feroz was not getting up. They told her to take her son
from their house. On hearing the same, she went to the house of
Chand Mohammad which was also in the same Colony where she
resides. There she saw that her son was lying on the floor and blood
was oozing out from his nose and there was some mark on his neck.
His pant and shirt were also lying nearby. At that time, appellant Taj
and his Bua Naseem were also there. With the help of the Mohalla
people, she took her son to Welcome Medical Centre where the doctor
declared that he was no more. Thereupon, she telephoned her
relations and again brought the dead body to the house of appellant
Chand with the help of the Mohalla people. At that time, appellants
were not there in the house. 4. After sometime, police reached there and she narrated the
incident to the police vide her aforesaid statement. On the basis of
said statement Ex. PW2/A, ruqqa was prepared and FIR Ex. PW 15/B
was got registered against the appellants under Section 302 / 34 IPC.
The site plan was prepared by the police. The crime team was also
called at the spot. The scene of crime was got photographed. During
investigation, Tabassum PW2 also told the police that shoes and wrist
watch of her son were also missing. Inquest papers were prepared by
the IO PW 20 and the body was sent to G.B. Pant Hospital for post-
mortem through Constable Dharmender Kumar PW 16. The clothes
of the deceased lying at the spot were seized by preparing necessary
memo in this regard. After post-mortem, the body was handed over to
the family members of the deceased. During investigation, maternal
uncle of deceased, i.e., PW6 Mohd Shafiq @ Rajesh also told the
police that he had seen the deceased along with the appellants in Janta
Colony on 18.04.2006 in the evening. 5. On the identification of Mohd Shafiq @ Rajesh, appellant
Chand Mohammad was arrested vide memo Ex.PW13/A by the IO on
28.04.2004 at about 5 p.m. when he was coming from the 66 ft. road
side near Welcome pulia. Before his arrest, his personal search was
conducted vide memo Ex.PW16/C. Appellant Chand Mohammad has
also made disclosure statement Ex. PW6/A and disclosed that he could
get recovered the weapon of offence, i.e., wire Ex.P-7. He also
disclosed that other two appellants would be coming to meet him in
the park opposite Gagan Cinema, Nand Nagri. Thereafter, IO PW 20
along with his staff and appellant Chand Mohammad went to the said Crl.A. 757/2009 Page 4 of 22 park and on the pointing out of appellant Chand Mohammad, the other
two appellants were apprehended. They were arrested vide memos
Ex. PW13/B and Ex. PW13/C respectively. Before arrest their
personal search was conducted vide memos Ex. PW6/L and PW 6/M
respectively. They made disclosure statements Ex. PW 6/F and Ex.
PW6/H respectively. Both were also got identified by Mohd. Shafiq
@ Rajesh PW-6. A wrist watch make „T Time Quartz‟ Ex. P2 which
was alleged to be of deceased was recovered from the left hand of
appellant Taj. Pursuant to disclosure statement Ex. PW6/B, Akil also
got recovered shoes Ex. P1 which were alleged to be of Feroz from the
bushes of Jheel Park. The same were seized by preparing necessary
memos in this regard by completing necessary formalities. From
there, they had returned to the house of Chand Mohammed where
appellants pointed out place of occurrence vide memos Ex.PW 6/F
and PW6/H. Thereafter, appellant Chand Mohammed pointed out the
room of his house no. H-232, Janta Colony, on first floor and took out
a black wire Ex.P7 lying under the television. The television was kept
on a stool. The said wire was seized vide seizure memo Ex. PW 6/J.
Before seizing, necessary formalities were done. After completion of
necessary investigation, a report under Section 173 Cr.P.C. was
prepared and was filed before learned MM, Delhi who committed the
case to Sessions Court. The learned Addl. Sessions Judge, Delhi
charged the appellants for having committed offence punishable under Section 302 / 34 IPC. Appellants pleaded not guilty to the same and
claimed trial and were tried before the learned Additional Sessions
Judge, Delhi. 6. Prosecution, in all, had examined 22 witnesses. Out of which
Jamil Ahmed, PW-1 is a close relative of the deceased who had
identified the dead body of the deceased. Tabassum, PW-2 is the
mother of the deceased. As per the prosecution case, she had seen
deceased last alive in the company of appellants. As per her, the
appellants had come to her house on 18.04.2004 at 7.30 pm and
thereafter on the same night at about 12.30 mid night, appellants had
come to her house and informed that they had given a beating to Feroz
due to which he was not getting up and had told her to go and bring
him back. Thereafter, she had gone to the house of appellant Chand
Mohammed where she had seen his dead body. Iftaqar Quresh, PW3,
Jalaluddin, PW4 and Hazir Nasir, PW5 are public witnesses. Mohd
Shafiq, PW6 is the brother of Tabassum who had allegedly seen
deceased alive in the company of appellants on 18th April, 2004 at
about 7.40 pm outside the house of Smt. Tabussum, PW-2. Ms. Ruby
Alka Gupta, PW-21 Principal Magistrate had conducted the TIP of
case property. Remaining witnesses relate to police and medical
evidence. 7. Incriminating evidence was put to the appellants by the learned
Additional Sessions Judge, in their statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C. They had denied the same and stated that they were innocent
persons and were falsely implicated. No evidence in defence was led
by them. 8. Relying on the evidence of Smt. Tabussum, PW-2 and that of
her brother Mohd. Shafiq, PW-6 of having last seen deceased alive in
the company of the appellants on 18th April, 2004 at about 7.30 pm at Crl.A. 757/2009 Page 6 of 22 her house and at 7.40 pm outside her house respectively and further
evidence of Smt. Tabussum, PW-2 of having seen the dead body of
deceased Feroz in the house of appellant Chand Mohammed in the
midnight of 18th - 19th April, 2004 and opinion of Dr. S. Lal, PW-8,
who had conducted the post mortem on the body of deceased and his
report Ex.PW8/B about the cause of death and the recovery of wire
Ex.P7 at the instance of Chand Mohammed, wrist watch Ex.P2 and
shoes Ex.P1 of the deceased at the instance of appellants Taj and Akil
and appellants furnishing no explanation as to how dead body was
found in the house of appellant Chand Mohammed, the learned Addl.
Sessions Judge convicted the appellants under Section 302 / 34 IPC. 9. Mr. K.B. Andley, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of
the appellants has contended that there is no positive evidence of
taking of any loan by the deceased from the appellant Chand
Mohammed as such there is also no motive for committing the alleged
offence. Learned senior counsel has contended, reading the evidence
of Dr. Upender Kumar, PW-7 who as per prosecution case had first
examined the deceased, that it can‟t be said with certainty that he had
examined the deceased. It is further contended that even if his
evidence is taken into consideration, Tabassum PW-2 had not
followed his instructions and did not take her son to GTB hospital. It
is contended that deceased had died due to lack of treatment. It is
contended that as per the case of prosecution, deceased Feroz had
taken a loan of ` 1000/- from appellant Chand Mohammed. Appellant
Taj Mohammed is the brother of appellant Chand Mohammed and
appellant Akil is their cousin. It is contended that Smt. Tabussum, Crl.A. 757/2009 Page 7 of 22 PW-2 has deposed that 2-3 days prior to the alleged incident, all the
appellants had come to her house and extended threats to the deceased
that in case the amount of ` 1000/- was not returned, they would kill
him. It is contended that despite the above mentioned alleged threats,
Tabassum PW-2 had sent deceased with the appellants on 18th April,
2004 at about 7.30 pm and thereafter, did not bother till 12.30 am, i.e.,
midnight about the whereabouts of her son. It is contended that her
conduct is quite unnatural and in these circumstances her evidence of
having sent her son with the appellants is not believable. Her
evidence that appellants had come to her house again at 12.30 a.m.
and had informed that they had given a beating to the deceased and
thereafter she had gone to their house is also not believable. It is
contended that aforesaid deposition is contrary to her statement
recorded in Ex.PW2/A on the basis of which FIR Ex.PW15/B was
registered. Further, it is not believable that appellants would first give
a beating and thereafter would come to inform her about the same. It
is further contended that even the evidence of Mohammed Shafiq,
PW-6 of having seen the deceased in the company of appellants on
18th April, 2004 at 7.40 pm near the house of deceased is also not
believable. It is contended that Mohammed Shafiq PW-6 is the
brother of Tabassum PW-2 and lives at Indra Puri Laxmi Garden Jama
Masjid in front of PP Loni, Ghaziabad, UP which is far away from the
house of Tabassum, PW-2. Learned senior counsel has further
contended that it has come in the evidence of Mohd. Shafiq, PW-6 that
Smt. Tabussum, PW-2 had told him that appellants had come to her
house and threatened to kill Feroz if the loan amount was not
returned. It is contended that despite having been informed so by his Crl.A. 757/2009 Page 8 of 22 sister PW-2, Mohammed Shafiq, PW-6 who was the maternal uncle of
deceased, did not bother to look for Feroz and rather went back to his
house. It is contended that his conduct is also very unnatural. It is
contended that even Mohammed Shafiq‟s evidence of having last seen
the deceased with the appellants does not inspire confidence. Learned
senior counsel has further submitted that evidence of recovery of wrist
watch, Ex P2 from the appellant Taj Mohammed and the recovery of
shoes Ex P1 at the instance of appellant Akil in the bushes of Jheel
Park is also not believable. It is further contended that circumstantial
evidence relied upon by the prosecution is not believable as such
appellants cannot be held guilty for the alleged occurrence. 10. On the other hand, Ms. Richa Kapoor, learned APP has
contended that circumstantial evidence on record clearly establishes
that deceased Feroz had taken a loan of ` 1000/- from the appellant
Chand Mohammed and the said amount was not returned by him and
the appellants extended threats to deceased Feroz that if the said
amount was not returned, they would kill him. It is contended that
evidence of Tabussum, PW-2 and Mohammed Shafiq, PW-6 clearly
establishes that deceased was last seen alive in the company of
appellants on 18th April, 2004 at about 7.30 pm. and 7.40 pm.
respectively. It is further contended that dead body of Feroz was
recovered from the house of appellant Chand Mohammed in the night
intervening 18-19th April, 2004. The evidence on record of Tabussum,
PW-2, police witnesses PWs 12 & 14 clearly establish that the dead
body of deceased Feroz was recovered from the house of appellant
Chand Mohammed. The evidence on record also proves that the Crl.A. 757/2009 Page 9 of 22 clothes of deceased were lying near the dead body. As per
postmortem report Ex.PW-8/A, the time since death was 18 hours.
The weapon of offence i.e., wire Ex.P7 was recovered from the house
of appellant Chand Mohammed pursuant to his disclosure statement
Ex.PW6/A at his instance which was concealed by him underneath the
television in his house. It is contended that there is recovery of wrist
watch Ex. P2 of deceased Feroz from accused Taj Mohammed. It is
further contended that the shoes Ex.P1 of the deceased were also
recovered at the instance of appellant Akil. It is contended that wrist
watch Ex. P2 and shoes Ex. P1 have been identified in TIP
proceedings as that of Feroz by her mother Tabassum PW-2. It is
contended that the circumstantial evidence relied upon by prosecution
clearly proves the case against the appellants beyond reasonable
doubt. The burden was on appellants to give an explanation as to how
the dead body of Feroz was found in the house of appellant-Chand
Mohammed which they have failed to discharge. It is contended that
in view of circumstantial evidence relied upon by prosecution the trial
court has rightly convicted the appellants u/s 302 / 34 IPC. 11. The entire case is based on circumstantial evidence. The
approach to be adopted and the test to be applied by the court in cases
based on circumstantial evidence, was examined by the Supreme
Court in Hanumant Govind Nargundkar and Anr. v. State of
Madhya Pradesh; MANU/SC/0037/1952 : 1953 Cri.L.J. 129. The
court in that case observed:- The above statement of law has stood the test of time and has
been reiterated in numerous subsequent decisions of the Supreme
Court. Reference in this regard is made to the decisions in Sharad
Birdhichand Sarda v. State of Maharashtra ; MANU/SC/0111/1984 : 12. The Supreme Court in Md. Mannan @ Abdul Mannan v.
State of Bihar ; (2011) 5 SCC 317 has held as under:- 13. In the present case, the material witnesses are Tabassum, PW-
2, mother of deceased and her brother Mohd. Shafiq, PW-6 as
having last seen the deceased alive in the company of appellants on
18th April, 2004 at 7.30 pm & 7.40 pm respectively. Smt.Tabassum,
PW-2 has deposed that deceased Feroz was her son. He was 18
years of age at the time of occurrence. Fifteen days prior to the
incident, deceased had taken a loan of `1000/- from the appellant-
Chand Mohammed. However, deceased Firoz could not return the
said amount. Due to that reason, appellant Chand Mohammed, his
brother Taj Mohammed and cousin Akil had extended threats to her
son that in case the said amount was not returned, they would kill
him. She had told them not to harm her son and that she would
arrange the said amount and return the same. On 18th April, 2004 at
about 7.30 pm, appellants had come to her house and had taken
Feroz on the assurance that he would be sent back. She told them
not to cause any harm to him and that she would return the amount
due from deceased Feroz. Thereafter, at about 12.30 am in the mid
night, all the appellants had come to her house and told her that they
had beaten her son Feroz and had also taken off his clothes and that Crl.A. 757/2009 Page 12 of 22 Feroz was not getting up and that she should go and bring him back.
She went to the house of appellant Chand Mohammed at Janta
Colony and found her son lying inside the house on the floor in
baniyan and underwear. Blood was coming out from his nose as
also from his mouth and his entire body had turned blue. There was
ligature mark on his neck. His pant and shirt were lying separately
near his body on the floor. Bua Naseem of appellant Chand
Mohammed was present. On her crying, people from
neighbourhood had gathered. Appellants were also present there.
With the help of neighbours, she had taken her son to a nearby
nursing home where the doctor declared him as having been brought
dead. Thereafter, she had taken the dead body of Feroz to the house
of appellant Chand Mohammed with the help of neighbourhood
people gathered there and at that time, appellants were not present
and they had run away. Police was called and her statement
Ex.PW2/A was recorded. In her evidence she has identified the
shoes Ex.P-1, wrist watch Ex.P-2 of her son and has also identified
shirt Ex.P-3 and pant Ex.P-4 which the deceased was wearing at the
time of incident. She has also identified the baniyan Ex. P5 and
underwear Ex. P6 of the deceased. She has also proved her
signature on Ex.PW2/C by which police had seized the pant and
shirt of the deceased from the spot. She has also proved her
signature on Ex.PW2/D by which she has identified the dead body
of her son. 14. As regards her evidence of having last seen deceased alive with
appellants, it may be seen that as per evidence of Tabassum, PW-2, Crl.A. 757/2009 Page 13 of 22 appellants had come to her house on 18th April, 2004 at 7.30 pm. and
had taken her son with them. It has also come in her evidence that
prior to that appellants had been extending threats to her son Feroz.
She has also deposed that on the day of occurrence, she had told the
appellants not to kill him and she would return the amount. In these
circumstances, it is not believable that Tabassum PW-2 who is the
mother of Feroz would send him in the company of appellants. Her
conduct in this regard is quite unnatural. Further, in her evidence, she
has deposed that the appellants had again come to her house at 12.30
a.m. on night intervening 18th-19th April, 2004 and told her that they
had beaten Feroz who was not getting up whereas in the statement
Ex.PW-2/A to police on the basis of which FIR Ex. PW15/B is
registered, she has stated that appellants Chand Mohammed and Akil
had come to her house and informed that her son was in their house
and he was not getting up. There is a serious contradiction in the
evidence before the court as well as statement Ex.PW 2/A as to who
all had come on 18th April, 2004 at 12.30 am. Further, it is also not
believable that appellants would first give a beating to the deceased in
their house and thereafter would come to his house and inform his
mother that they had given a beating and that Feroz was not getting
up. Her evidence that she had removed her son with the help of
neighbourhood people and had taken him to nearby Nursing Home
also does not inspire confidence. To support her version, the
prosecution has examined Dr. Upender Kumar PW-7. The said doctor
has not given the name of the person who he had examined. He has
also not given the date and month of examination nor has he produced
any notings which he had made when he examined the deceased. Reading his evidence, it cannot be said with certainty that he has
examined the deceased. 15. Mohd. Shafiq, PW-6 is the brother of Tabassum PW-2. He has
deposed that at the relevant time, he was living in Indra Puri, Laxmi
Garden, Jama Masjid in front of PP Loni Distt Ghaziabad, U.P. As
per his evidence, on 24th April, 2004 in the evening, he had gone to
meet his sister Tabassum, PW-2 at her house in Janta Colony
Welcome and outside the house, he saw deceased Feroz going with
appellants at 7.40 pm and he asked where they were going, to which
appellant Chand Mohammed replied that they were going for some
urgent work. He further deposed that he has known the appellants as
they were his relatives. Thereafter, he went to meet his sister and his
sister had told him that appellants had taken Feroz with them and she
was also apprehensive that they might harm Feroz as he had taken a
loan of `1000/- from appellant Chand Mohammed. 16. The conduct of Mohammed Shafiq, PW-6 is also very
unnatural. He is the maternal uncle of deceased Feroz. Despite being
told by his sister Tabassum PW-2 that she was apprehensive that
appellant would cause harm to deceased Feroz, he was not bothered
and instead of looking for Feroz, he left for his house. His deposition
of having last seen the deceased alive in the company of appellants
also does not inspire confidence. 17. It is not disputed that appellants Chand Mohammed and Taj
Mohammed are resident of H-232, Janta Colony and Tabussum, PW-2
is a resident of A-72, Janta Colony. Appellant Akil is a resident of K- 335, Sunder Nagri, Nand Nagri, Delhi. The evidence of Tabassum
PW-2 establishes that deceased Feroz had taken a loan of `1000/-
from appellant Chand Mohammed and he could not return the same
and thereafter appellants Chand Mohammed along with two other
appellants had been demanding the said amount from him. Her
evidence in this regard is not demolished in cross-examination. It has
also come in the evidence of Tabassum PW-2 that deceased used to
visit house of appellant Chand Mohammed and she also used to visit
there to call her son as and when he used to visit there. The evidence
of Tabussum, PW-2 also establishes that she had seen the dead body
of her son Feroz in the house of appellant Chand Mohammed in the
night intervening 18th and 19th April, 2004 lying inside the house on
the floor in underwear and banyan and blood was coming from his
mouth and nose and there was ligature mark on his neck. Her
evidence in this regard stands corroborated from the evidence of
Constable Bhagat Singh, PW-14 who has deposed that on 18th April,
2004, he was on night patrolling duty in the area of Janta Colony. At
4 am, he saw a large crowd gathered in front of house no.H-232, Janta
Colony i.e the house of appellant Chand Mohammed. He saw a dead
body lying in the room. On enquiry, he came to know that deceased‟s
name was Feroz. Thereafter, he gave information to the police station.
Thereupon, ASI Lal Chand, PW-9, Constable Dharamender, PW-12
and Inspector Anand Sagar, PW-20 reached the spot. The evidence of
ASI Lal Chand, PW-9 and Constable Dharamender, PW-12
established that on receipt of DD No.28A, they reached the spot and
found a dead body lying on the floor in house no.H-232, Janta Colony,
Delhi. He was only wearing a blue underwear and a white vest Crl.A. 757/2009 Page 16 of 22 (banian) and the body had an injury mark on the neck. Inspector
Anand Sagar, PW-20 has also deposed that on getting the information,
he had reached H-232, Janta Colony, Delhi at about 4/5 am where a
dead body of a boy was found which later on was identified as Feroz.
In his deposition, he has described the injuries on the dead body. His
evidence also has clearly established that there were injuries on nose,
forehead, left shoulder, behind the neck and on both the knees. He has
deposed that dead body was found in the house of appellant-Chand
Mohammed. The evidence of aforesaid witnesses of having seen dead
body of Feroz in the house of Chand Mohammed was not demolished
in the cross-examination. 18. The postmortem report Ex.PW 8/A shows the following ante-
mortem injuries:- 19. The cause of death as per aforesaid report Ex.PW 8/A which is
proved on record by Dr. S. Lal, PW-8 is „Asphyxia‟ as a result of
antemortem strangulation by means of ligature and sufficient to cause
death in ordinary course of nature. Time since death was about 18
hours. Postmortem was conducted on 19th April, 2004 at 2.40 pm. Crl.A. 757/2009 Page 18 of 22 The opinion of Dr. S. Lal, PW-8 who had conducted the
postmortem of deceased about the weapon of offence i.e. electric wire
Ex. P7 was taken. As per opinion Ex.PW 8/B, ligature mark present
on the neck of deceased was possible with wire Ex.P7 which led to the
death of deceased due to asphyxia as a result of strangulation. The recovery of electric wire Ex.P7 from appellant Chand
Mohammed stands proved from the evidence of Mohd. Shafiq PW-6
which ASI Raj Bir Singh PW13 and IO PW-20 which clearly
establishes that pursuant to disclosure statement Ex.PW6/A, appellant
Chand Mohammed led them to his house i.e. House No.232, Janta
Colony and got recovered wire Ex.P7 by taking out the same lying
underneath the TV kept on a stool on the first floor of his house. Their
deposition about recovery of electric wire Ex. P7 was not demolished
in cross-examination. 20. As regards recovery of wrist watch Ex.P2 alleged to be of
deceased from appellant Taj Mohammed is concerned, it has come in
the evidence of the witnesses to the recovery i.e., PW-13 ASI Rajbir
and PW-6 Mohd. Shafiq that the watch was recovered from the left
hand of appellant Taj Mohammed. It has also come in the evidence of
aforesaid witnesses and PW-20 IO Anand Sagar, that first personal
search of appellant Taj Mohammed was conducted vide memo
Ex.PW6/L. The said memo shows recovery of purse/few
papers/visiting cards and Rs.70/-. Nothing is stated in the personal
search memo of Taj Mohammed about watch Ex. P2. Under these
circumstances, recovery of watch Ex. P2 from left hand of appellant
Taj Mohammed is not believable. 21. The alleged recovery of a pair of black shoes Ex. P1 was on
pointing out of appellant Akil from the bushes of Jheel Park after
about 3/4 days of incident. The said park is accessible to all. The
evidence of witnesses about recovery of black shoes Ex. P1 does not
inspire confidence and is not taken into consideration. 22. In view of above discussion, the evidence of Tabassum PW-2
establishes that appellant Chand Mohammed, had given a loan of
`1000/- to deceased Feroz few days prior to the incident. It stands
established from her evidence that appellant Chand Mohammed along
with other two appellants had been going to her house and demanding
the said money and threats were being extended to him. The motive is
established only against appellant Chand Mohammed. It is also the
admitted position that appellant Chand Mohammed and deceased
Feroz were living in the same locality. The evidence of Tabussum,
PW-2 also establishes that on the night intervening 18th and 19th April,
2011, she had found her son lying dead on the floor having injuries on
various parts of his body. The recovery of dead body from the house
of appellant Chand Mohammed stands proved from the evidence of
Tabussum, PW-2 as well as evidence of police witnesses i.e.,
Constable Bhagat Singh PW-10, ASI Lal Chand PW9, Constable
Dharmender -PW-12 and IO Anand Sagar PW-20 as is discussed in
preceding paras. The endorsement of IO PW-20 on the statement
Ex.PW2/A of Tabassum PW-2, which is recorded at the spot, also
mentions that dead body of Feroz was lying in House No.232, Janta
Colony. It also mentions the details of injuries on the dead body.
Appellant Chand Mohammed was arrested on 22nd April, 2004 and at Crl.A. 757/2009 Page 20 of 22 his instance the wire, Ex.P7 was recovered which was concealed
beneath a television set on the first floor of his house. As discussed
above, the cause of death was „asphyxia‟ as a result of antemortem
strangulation by means of ligature and was sufficient to cause death in
ordinary course of nature as is evident from postmortem report
Ex.PW8/A. Dr. S.Lal, PW-8 who has conducted postmortem on the
dead body of deceased Feroz, has also proved on record his report
Ex.PW8/A by which it has been proved that ligature mark on the neck
of deceased was possible with wire Ex.P7. The appellant Chand
Mohammed has not given any explanation in his statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C. as to how Feroz‟s dead body was found in the
house. He has also not explained as to how the injuries were there on
his body. The Supreme Court in Trimukh Maroti Kirkan v. State of
Maharashtra ; (2006) 10 SCC 681 has observed as under:- As held above, the non-explanation by appellant Chand
Mohammed provides an additional link in the chain of circumstances
to make it complete. The circumstantial evidence discussed above, forms a complete
chain and unerringly points towards guilt of appellant Chand
Mohammed. 23. The prosecution has proved all the circumstances discussed
above beyond reasonable doubt and a conclusion can be drawn that
appellant Chand Mohammed is responsible for the occurrence.
Considering the overall circumstances, the other two appellants are
given benefit of doubt. 24. In view of the above discussion, the conviction and sentence of
appellant Chand Mohammed is upheld whereas that of appellant Taj
Mohammed and Akil are set aside. The appellants Taj Mohammed
and Akil be released forthwith if not required in any other case. The appeal stands disposed of accordingly. VEENA BIRBAL, J

 BADAR DURREZ AHMED, J
November 8, 2011
ssb Crl.A. 757/2009 Page 22 of 22