The present petition is filed by the petitioners under Sec.12 of Protection of Women from Domestic Violence
Act, 2005. 2. The brief facts of the petitioner's case are as
under; The petitioner is the legally wedded wife of
respondent No.1 and their marriage was solemnized on
10.08.2017 at M.S. Ramaiah Kalyana Mantapa, Gokul
Extension, Bengaluru. Further, she submitted that,
before the marriage once respondent rejected the
petitioner's marriage proposal as she was intending to 3 Crl.Misc.112/2021

resign her job. Later again respondent's family
approached the family of the petitioner through marriage
broker and when they found that petitioner had joined a
new company and after that marriage took place.
Further she submits that, at time of marriage respondent
had demanded money for purchasing the wedding
clothes from the petitioner's father but the father of the
petitioner informed the respondent that he will bear the
entire cost towards the purchase of the wedding clothes
but will not give money as demanded by the respondent
and his family members. After the marriage from the day
one at her marital home the petitioner was made to feel
uncomfortable and as an outsider. She was not allowed
to purchase any thing for her personal use and needs.
Any purchase made by her was questioned and was
immediately removed from her possession. Once
petitioner purchased a small dustbin and tissue rolls
which were placed in the bathroom. The younger sister
of the respondent questioned the need for it and ensured
that the respondent and his mother removed the same
from the possession of the petitioner. Further she
submitted that, younger sister of the respondent though
married was remote controlling the affairs of the
respondent's home. The said sister has been interfering
in the marital life of the petitioner from the day of the 4 Crl.Misc.112/2021

marriage. The sister of the respondent would instigate
the parents of the respondent and the respondent to
question the petitioner regarding the desire of the
petitioner to eat outside go for a movie, to wear clothes of
her choice and anything which was done by the
petitioner. 3. Further petitioner submitted that, respondent
refused to permit the petitioner to use a room which is
located on the first floor stating that she had sentimental
attachment to the room and hence cannot stay anywhere
else in the same house whenever she visited from the
United states of America. Further she submitted that,
respondent used to got out alone in the evenings with his
friends and he would return late in the night in an
inebriated condition and respondent's parents justified
the drinking habit of the respondent. The petitioner
used to be awake till late hours waiting for the
respondent to return home. The petitioner being a
working woman had to wake up very early in the morning
to complete the household chores including preparing
breakfast and lunch for the entire family. 4. Further, petitioner submitted that respondent
and his parents constantly nagged the petitioner and 5 Crl.Misc.112/2021

would belittle her and her parents in front of other
people. Respondent never provided any financial help to
the petitioner and would make the petitioner to spend
her money towards the household expenses and her
personal expenses. Further she submitted that, mother
of the respondent would constantly demand the
petitioner to handover her entire salary to the
respondent's mother and respondent's family attempted
to make the petitioner financially dependent on them.
These acts of the respondent and his family members
amount to financial cruelty. 5. Further she submitted that, respondent would
constantly ask the petitioner to got back to her paternal
home as he did not need her and he expressed his
disinterest in leading a marital life with the petitioner. On
one occasion respondent called the father of the
petitioner and asked him to take the petitioner back and
another occasion asked his mother to pack the bags of
the petitioner and throw her out of the house. The
respondent by his constant nagging and emotional abuse
ensured that the petitioner is thrown out of her marital
home. Further she submitted that, parents of the
respondent pressurized her to avail for a loan for a sum
of Rs.2 lakhs with a local Stree Shakti Seva as they 6 Crl.Misc.112/2021

wanted to use the money to travel to United States of
America. The petitioner refused to avail the said loan as
she was not entitled for the same. The refusal of the
petitioner angered the parents of the respondent and
they were abusive towards her. Further she submitted
that, respondent and his parents also got the in-laws of
the sister of the respondent to coerce the father of the
petitioner to purchase a site in the name of the
respondent. Further she submitted that, respondent has
anger issues and suffers from mood sings. The
respondent in a fit or rage has brutally assaulted the
petitioner and has caused physical harm to her. 6. Further she submitted that, petitioner did not
want to approach the jurisdictional police station and
lodge a complaint against the respondent and his family
members as she did not want to wash the dirty linen in
public. The respondent and his family members have
taken advantage of the good nature of the petitioner in
not filing a police complaint against them. Further she
submitted that, after being abused and assaulted by the
respondent and his family the petitioner was thrown out
of her marital home by the respondent and his family
members. She had to take shelter at her sister's house
in Bangalore. Further she submitted that, respondent 7 Crl.Misc.112/2021

along with his friend tried to threaten the petitioner and
her family members by stating that the respondent would
file a case against her for desertion. The respondent has
filed a case for divorce against the petitioner Further she
submitted that, respondent and his family members have
mentally, emotionally, physically and financially abused
her. The petitioner has suffered immensely in the hands
of the respondent and his family members. Hence, this
petition. 7. After the service of notice, respondents
appeared before this court through their counsel and
filed statement of objection and in the statement of
objection respondents have admitted relationship with
the petitioner. Further they have submitted that, they
never demanded dowry from the petitioner and they
never caused domestic violence against the petitioner.
On all these grounds they prays to reject the petition filed
by the petitioner. 8. The petitioner to substantiate her case has
examined herself as PW.1 and got marked Ex.P.1 to 14.
The respondent No.1 himself examined as R.W.1 and got
marked Ex.R.1 to 22. Crl.Misc.112/2021 9. Heard arguments on respondents side. In spite
of granting sufficient opportunity petitioner's side not
addressed arguments. Hence, petitioner's argument taken
as nil. 10. The following points that arises for my
consideration are as under; 1. Whether the Petitioner proves that she
 was subjected to Domestic Violence by
 the respondents? 2. Whether the petitioner is entitled for
 the reliefs as sought in the petition? 3. What order? 11. On perusal of materials before this court, my
findings on the above points are as follows; Point No.1 : In the negative; Point No.2 : In the negative; Point No.3 : As per final order for the
 following; REASONS 12. Point No.1 : In a domestic violence case the
petitioner has to prove the domestic relationship
between herself and respondent, she was residing with
the respondent in a shared household, the domestic
violence was caused by the respondent upon her. The 9 Crl.Misc.112/2021

respondent has neglected the petitioner without any
reasonable cause and the respondent is capable to
provide maintenance to the petitioner. 13. In this case, there is no dispute regarding the
relationship between parties. Hence, it is proved that the
petitioner and the respondents are in domestic
relationship. It is also an admitted fact that, the
petitioner and respondents resided together till the date
of separation. Hence they have resided together in a
shared household. Hence, petitioner is in domestic
relationship with the respondents in a shared
household. Only the aspect of domestic violence needs to
be proved by the petitioner. 14. In order to prove that, the respondents have
committed domestic violence, the petitioner has
examined herself as P.W.1 and filed her affidavit in lieu of
examination in chief wherein she has reiterated the
contents of her petition. She has produced 14
documents and got them marked as Ex.P.1. to 14. In
support of her petition she has got marked Ex.P.1 which
is the marriage invitation card, Ex.P.2 is the marriage
photograph. Ex.P.3 is the photograph of the alleged
physical assault caused by the respondent, MO.1 is the 10 Crl.Misc.112/2021

CD with respect to Ex.P.2 & 3 photographs, Ex.P.4 to 8
are 5 receipts with respect to the clothes purchased at
the time of wedding, Ex.P.10 is the receipt for booking of
hotel, Ex.P.11 & 12 are receipts with respect to watch
purchased for the respondent, Ex.P.13 is the evidence of
respondent in MC NO.4316/2019 before the Hon'ble 6 th
Addl. Family Court, Bengaluru, Ex.P.14 is the whats app
conversation between the respondent and his sister
which is marked by confronting the respondent. 15. The petitioner has alleged that, when the
proposal of the petitioner was sent to the respondent he
had rejected the same as the petitioner was unemployed
and thereafter once the petitioner secured employment
the respondent once again approached her family
through a marriage broker. She has further alleged that,
during the courtship period the respondent on more than
one occasion asked her to call off the wedding which was
brushed aside by the family of the respondent by stating
that respondent was going through pre wedding jitters. It
is further alleged that, the entire expenditure of the
engagement ceremony was borne by the father of the
petitioner and he also borne the cost of the wedding
clothes and other accessories of the respondent and his 11 Crl.Misc.112/2021

family members. These allegations made by the
petitioner is denied by the respondent and it is
contended by the respondent and he has not demanded
any articles or any valuables from the petitioner and her
family during the wedding. In order to prove her
contentions petitioner has submitted Ex.P.4 to 12
receipts showing purchase of clothes, watch, shoes for
respondent and his family. Admittedly, Ex.P.4 to 8 do
not mention the name of the petitioner. In the cross
examination petitioner has admitted that, she has
purchased the said clothes and jewelry for her own use.
She has further admitted in her cross examination that,
the respondents have not demanded any of the items
purchased through Ex.P.4 to 12 but they have stated
that the marriage should be conducted according
customs and rituals prevailing in the community by
giving all the items that are necessary. This admission
by the petitioner proves the contention of the respondent
that he has not demanded for any of the items purchased
through Ex.P.4 to 12. Moreover, the allegations
regarding respondent rejecting the proposal of the
petitioner earlier and later accepting the same, the
allegation regarding the respondent asking the petitioner
to call off the wedding cannot be considered in this
petition as these incidents occurred before the 12 Crl.Misc.112/2021

commencement of "domestic relationship". The counsel
for the petitioner has made suggestion in this regard to
respondent in his cross examination but nothing is
elicited from him to believe that he was disinterested in
the marriage from the beginning. Even if these
allegations are considered it is an admitted fact that,
there was no force on either parties to enter into the
marriage. Hence, petitioner has not proved these
allegations. 16. It is the allegation of the petitioner that, from
day one at her marital home she was made to feel
uncomfortable. She was not allowed to purchase
anything for her personal use and needs. She has
stated that, she had purchased a small dustbin and
tissue rolls which were placed in the bathroom and
younger sister of the respondent questioned the need for
the same and ensured that respondent and his mother
removed the same from her possessions. It is further
alleged that, the younger sister of the respondent remote
controlled the affairs of the respondent's home and she
was interfering with her marital life and would instigate
the parents of the respondent and respondent to question
the petitioner regarding her choice of clothes, her desire
to go for a movie, her desire to eat outside and anything 13 Crl.Misc.112/2021

done by the petitioner. It is further alleged that, the
sister of the respondent also refused to permit the
petitioner to use a room which is located on the 1 st floor
of the house by stating that she had sentimental
attachment to the room and she cannot stay anywhere
else whenever she visited from USA. The respondent
has denied these allegations in his statement of objection
and he has stated that, the petitioner was pestering and
demanded that she wanted to move to another room in
the house which was temporarily occupied by his sister
at that point of time as she was suffering from dengue.
When himself and his parents tried to convince the
petitioner that she can use the room after his sister left
to USA but the petitioner refused. He has alleged that,t
he petitioner stopped interacting with him and his family
members after the said incident. It is further alleged that,
the petitioner had developed such a grudge against his
sister that she left the matrimonial home during the stay
of his sister in the matrimonial home and even she
refused to see off his sister on the day of her departure.
Petitioner has been cross examined in this regard by the
counsel for the respondent and it is elicited from her that
the sister of the respondent got dengue fever 15 days
after the marriage and she was admitted in the hospital.
She has denied the suggestion that she not visit 14 Crl.Misc.112/2021

respondent's sister in the hospital. She has stated that,
the sister of the respondent stayed in the matrimonial
house for 2 months. She has further admitted that, she
had asked the respondent to stay in the separate room
with attached bathroom which was in the 1 st floor of the
house of the respondent. She has stated that, she had
kept her clothes in the said room and there was an
attached bathroom in the said room hence she had asked
the respondent to shift to the said room. She has further
stated that, the respondent did not agree for the same by
stating that the said room belongs to his sister.
Respondent in his cross examination regarding these
allegations has stated that, there are 3 room in his house
and one room is in the ground floor, 2 rooms in the 1 st
floor and he has occupied one of the room in the 1 st floor
and the other room belonging to his sister is under lock
and key. He has denied the suggestion that, there is an
attached bathroom to the said room under lock and key
and stated that there is an attached bathroom in the
room which is occupied by him. He has denied the
suggestion that, he has asked the petitioner to use the
bathroom attached to his parents room during her stay
in the matrimonial house. Here it is pertinent to note
that the petitioner nowhere in her petition or affidavit
has stated that, the respondent had asked her to use the 15 Crl.Misc.112/2021

bathroom in his parents room during her stay in the
matrimonial house. She has stated that, respondent's
sister refused to leave her room to the petitioner. The
respondent has also admitted that, he refused to ask the
sister to vacate and he had told the petitioner that they
could occupy his sister's room after she left to the US.
It is elicited from the petitioner that the respondent's
sister was constrained to stay in the matrimonial house
for 2 months after the wedding because she was suffering
from dengue fever and she was hospitalized. Under
such circumstances it may have been that the
respondents refused to ask the respondent's sister to
vacate her room. This in itself cannot constitute
domestic violence under PWDV Act . Petitioner in her
cross examination has stated that, she had kept her
clothes and other belongings in the room belonging to the
sister and also the said room had an attached bathroom
hence, she asked the respondent if they could occupy the
said room. But this allegation is not made in the
petition. The respondent has denied the suggestion that
the room occupied by the petitioner and respondent did
not have a attach bathroom. Hence, it appears that the
petitioner made improvements in the cross examination
to suit her case. Crl.Misc.112/2021 17. Apart from these admissions, the petitioner
has submitted Ex.P.14 which are the whats app chats
between the respondent and his sister to prove the
interference by his sister in his marital life. Perusal of
the whats app chats especially the message sent by the
sister for example "I knw it's not the same jus coz shez
not cooking it doesn't mean u go out U make her do tats
the solution or both of u together do it". "see everything
regarding home start with sharing everything n doing
stuff U be smart n chose the least work n give her the
max but be smart For the outside it should seem like ur
also doing". "I'm not feeding anyone anything I haven't
even told them tat u texted so sry wrong blame...". These
whats app chats show that she was not controlling the
respondent. She may be giving some advice which may
not be correct but respondent's sister was messaging her
brother and discussing his marital life at his instance
and exchanging views this cannot be considered as
interference in the marital life of the petitioner and
respondent. Moreover, respondent should be capable of
distinguishing between good and bad advice. Hence,
the blame of the marital relationship of the petitioner
and respondent going sour cannot be placed on the sister
of the respondent. Crl.Misc.112/2021 18. It is alleged by the petitioner that, respondent
used to go out alone in the evening with his friends and
would return late in the night in an inebriated condition.
He never used to introduce the petitioner to any of his
friends. The petitioner used to be awake till late hours
waiting for the respondent to return home. Since the
petitioner was a working woman she had to wake up
early in the morning to complete the household chores
including breakfast and lunch for the entire family. The
petitioner tried to explain to the respondent that he
should spend time with her as they were newly wed.
However, the respondent used to get offended and would
pick unnecessary argument with the petitioner. It is
alleged that, the parents of the respondent supported the
respondent and justified his drinking habit. It is further
alleged that, the parents of the respondent constantly
nagged the petitioner, belittled her in front of other
people. The respondent never provided any financial help
to the petitioner and would make the petitioner spend
money towards household expenses and her personal
expenses. It is further alleged that, the mother of the
respondent demanded the petitioner to handover her
entire salary to respondent's mother. It is stated that,
this amounts to mental and financial cruelty.
Respondent has denied these allegations. It is alleged by 18 Crl.Misc.112/2021

the respondent that, the petitioner misbehaved with the
respondents. She did not even speak with the
respondents in the birthday party organized for
petitioner's sister's child. It is alleged that, she
humiliated the respondent in front of her relatives. In
this regard the petitioner has been cross examined by
the counsel for the respondent and petitioner has stated
in her cross examination that the respondent used to go
out with his friends 2 to 3 times in a week and would
come back home in an inebriated condition. She has
further stated that, she lived with the respondent from
August 2017 to July 2018. In order to prove that the
respondent had a drinking habit the petitioner has
submitted Ex.P.14 whats app chat between the
respondent and his sister. Wherein the sister of the
respondent No.1 has berated the respondent by stating
that he is falling for alcohol and he is going out with
friends getting drunk. The respondent in the said
message has stated that, "Whats wrong if I go out n spare
my time with my friends for 2 to 2.5 hours weekly
twice???? Due to some friends only have I come out of
dire situations.... Also I have been doing everything to
keep her happy". This message sent by the respondent
to his sister shows that the respondent was going out
with his friends for around 2 hours twice in a week. Crl.Misc.112/2021

From this message it can also be gathered that the
respondent would spend time drinking alcohol with is
friends. Respondent in his cross examination has
admitted that, he has a habit of drinking alcohol. It is
not the allegation of the petitioner that the respondent
would drink alcohol and abuse her or cause any trouble
to her. It is also not her allegation that respondent is an
alcoholic. It is her allegation that, respondent would
return home late and it would cause her inconvenience
as she had to get up early in the morning. Consumption
of alcohol does not necessarily indicate alcoholism or bad
character. When there are no specific incidents of abuse
related to alcohol consumption of the respondent, the
habit of the respondent going out and having a drink
with his friends cannot be considered as domestic
violence to the petitioner. It is the allegation of the
petitioner that, because the respondent was returning
home late it was causing her inconvenience. These sort
of inconveniences will be there in any marital
relationship especially when the relationships are new
and the couple are not used to each others habits and
behaviour. This could have been sorted out with open
communication. These sort of inconveniences cannot be
termed as domestic violence as contemplated U/ Sec.3 of
PWDV Act. Crl.Misc.112/2021 19. It is alleged by the petitioner that, the
respondent and his parents have belittled her. But there
is no evidence in this regard and it is a vague and general
allegation with no specific mention of any incident.
Hence, this allegation of the petitioner cannot be
believed. It is alleged that, she was forced to give her
entire salary to the respondent's mother. Even with this
regard there is no proof that the petitioner has
transferred her entire salary or any part of her salary to
the respondent's mother. There is also no proof given by
the petitioner to say that the mother of the respondent
has forced her to give her salary. Hence, these
allegations cannot be believed. Petitioner has alleged
she was made to spend for household expenses.
Petitioner could have produced the bills proof of
payment for such expenses which she has not produced.
Hence, this allegation remains not proved. 20. It is alleged by the petitioner that, the
respondent pressurized her to avail a loan for sum of
Rs.2 lakhs from Stree Shakti Seva as the respondent's
parents wanted to use the money to travel to USA and
when the petitioner refused to avail the loan as she was
not entitled for the same her refusal angered the parents 21 Crl.Misc.112/2021

of the respondent and they were abusive towards the
petitioner. The respondent has denied the allegations
and contended that the parents of the petitioner decided
to go to USA for 3 months due to constant insistence of
the petitioner to move to a separate house. The
petitioner apart from her own testimony has not
provided any proof in this regard. Admittedly, the
respondent has salary of around Rs.2 lakhs per month
and he can easily afford for a trip for his parents to USA.
Under such circumstances it is not clear as to why the
parents of the respondent would insist the petitioner to
avail loan to enable them to travel to USA. Moreover, in
MC No.4316/2019 in the cross examination of the
respondent (petitioner therein) the counsel for the
petitioner (respondent therein) has suggested that, the
petitioner has taken Rs.1 lakh from Stree Shakti Seva
Sanga and out of the same the parents of the respondent
went for USA trip and they did not repay the loan taken
by the petitioner which is denied by the respondent. If
at all the petitioner had availed loan of Rs.1 lakh she
could have produced documents for the same. But the
petitioner has not submitted the said documents.
Further the said allegation of availing Rs.1 lakh loan is
not made in the present petition. Therefore, it appears
that the petitioner is giving different versions in different 22 Crl.Misc.112/2021

proceedings regarding the same incident to suit her case.
Hence, this allegation made by the petitioner is not
believable and not proved. 21. It is further alleged by the petitioner that,
respondent and his parents got the in laws of the sister of
the respondent to coerce her father to purchase a site in
the name of the respondent. The respondent has
denied these allegations and contended that he never
asked for any site in his name. In this regard the
petitioner counsel has made a suggestion to the
respondent in the cross examination which is denied by
the respondent. The petitioner has not submitted any
proof to believe the said allegation. Moreover, the
petitioner has not even stated when, where and under
what circumstances the in laws of the sister of the
respondent coerced the father of the respondent to
purchase a site in the name of the respondent. Hence,
this allegation is vague and general in nature and it is
not proved. 22. Further the petitioner has alleged that, the
respondent has abused and assaulted her but she did
not complain to the police as she came from a well
cultured and reputed family and she did not want to 23 Crl.Misc.112/2021

wash dirty linen in public. In this regard the petitioner
has submitted Ex.P.3 photograph of a bruise on her arm
and alleged that the respondent has caused the said
bruise. Apart from the photograph, the petitioner has
not submitted any medical documents. The respondent
has denied the said allegations and he has stated that,
when the parents of the respondent left to USA in May
2018 the petitioner was refusing to cook and also did not
eat the food respondent cooked and she would order from
outside. When he tried to talk her out of the situation
and tried to pacify her by holding her hand the petitioner
refused and took the act of the respondent holding her
hand as an offence and means of abuse and she has sent
false and morphed image of hand print on her hand to
his sister's mother in law and accused the respondent of
physical abuse. When the respondent tried to have a
conversation with the petitioner she has avoided him
completely. The petitioner in her evidence has not
mentioned the date, time or even the situation in which
the alleged abuse and assault took place. In the cross
examination, the counsel for the petitioner has
suggested to the respondent that, he has held the hand
of the petitioner very tightly and caused imprint on her
hand. Ex.P.3 produced by the petitioner in this regard is
a photograph and it is not accompanied by certificate 24 Crl.Misc.112/2021

U/ Sec.65-B of the Indian Evidence Act. Hence, the date,
time of the photograph is not placed before the Court.
Under such circumstances Ex.P.3 has to be excluded
from the evidence and it cannot be considered.
Therefore, the petitioner is not able to prove the said
allegation. 23. It is further alleged by the petitioner that, she
was thrown out of the matrimonial home by the
respondent and his family members and she had to take
shelter in her sister's house. Further the respondent
even threatened her by stating that he would file a case
against the petitioner for desertion and he has initiated
divorce proceedings. In order to elicit that the respondent
has thrown her out of the matrimonial home in the cross
examination of respondent No.1 it is elicited from the
respondent that the petitioner left the matrimonial home
and went to her sisters house and he has not contacted
the petitioner after she left the home. Hence, he does not
know where the petitioner went. It is argued by the
counsel for the petitioner that, this admission by the
respondent shows that he has thrown the petitioner out
of the matrimonial home. But perusal of the cross
examination of the respondent in entirety reveals that,
the respondent has stated that he called the petitioner 25 Crl.Misc.112/2021

but she has not answered. Further, the petitioner in her
cross examination has stated that, in July 2018
respondent No.2 and 3 sent her to parental home for
Ashada and told her that they would come back from
USA and then take her back to the matrimonial home
but they never came to take her back. But this aspect is
not pleaded by the petitioner in her petition or in her
examination in chief. This shows that petitioner has
made an improvement about the circumstance under
which she left the matrimonial home. In her petition she
has stated that she was thrown out of the matrimonial
home and she had to take shelter in her sister's house.
Whereas, in the cross examination she has stated that,
she went to her parental home for Ashada and
respondents have not called her back. Further petitioner
in her cross examination has stated that in August 2018
there was a panchayath held between both the families.
This admission also shows that, the petitioner was not
thrown out of the matrimonial home. Further the
petitioner in her cross examination has stated that in
the said panchayath respondents have asked her to leave
the matrimonial home. This aspect is not stated either in
the examination in chief or the petition. Therefore,
another improvement is made by the petitioner by
stating that the respondents have asked her to leave after 26 Crl.Misc.112/2021

the said panchayath. Therefore, the version of the
petitioner about being thrown out of the matrimonial
house has changed constantly is not believable. Further
it is an admitted fact that, the petitioner left the
matrimonial home in July or August 2018 and thereafter
respondent has filed divorce petition against the
petitioner in MC 4360/2019. It is also an admitted fact
that only after respondent filed the divorce petition the
petitioner has preferred the present petition. Further it
is also pertinent to note that petitioner has not lodged
any complaint against the respondent till the respondent
filed for divorce against her. Even when the respondent
allegedly physically abused her she has not filed a
complaint. Petitioner has explained her decision to not
file a complaint by stating that she did not want to wash
dirty linen in public. Hence, she has not filed a
complaint. Even if this explanation of the petitioner is
accepted, the present petition is filed 3 years after the
petitioner left the matrimonial home. Admittedly, the
petitioner has not initiated for divorce and neither has
she filed any case for restitution of conjugal rights
against respondent. Further the respondent has sent a
legal notice to the petitioner seeking for restitution of
conjugal rights vide Ex.R.5 and she has not replied to the
said notice. Petitioner has contended that, the 27 Crl.Misc.112/2021

respondent has sent the notice to her hometown and
since she and her parents were in her sister's house they
have not received the said notice. As per Ex.R.9 the
notice is returned unserved. Admittedly, the address
given by the respondent in the legal notice is the
permanent address of the parents of the petitioner and
the petitioner's contention that her parents were not in
the said address is not believable. It appears that, the
petitioner has purposefully avoided receiving the notice.
Even if it is considered that the petitioner has not
received the notice the conduct of the petitioner in not
joining the respondent nor seeking divorce shows that
she was not interested in continuing with the marital
relationship and the present petition is filed only as a
counter blast. 24. Petitioner has alleged that, respondent was
not interested in leading marital life. On more than one
occasion he called her father and asked him to take her
back. Is is further alleged that, respondent asked his
mother to pack her bag and throw her out of the house.
It is submitted that, respondent by his constant nagging
and emotional abuse ensured that petitioner was thrown
out of the matrimonial home this amounts to emotional
abuse and cruelty. Respondent has denied being 28 Crl.Misc.112/2021

disinterested in leading matrimonial life with the
petitioner and contended that it was the petitioner who
was not interested in the marriage. He has stated that,
he has completed his evidence in the divorce proceedings
in 03.03.2020 itself and the matter was set down for
cross examination of P.W.1 on 14.04.2020. The
petitioner has filed this petition on 08.10.2021 much
after the respondent filing the divorce petition. It is
contended that, it is the petitioner who is not interested
in marital life. The petitioner again has made vague
allegations by stating that the respondent would nag her
and constantly abuse her and attempted to throw her out
of the matrimonial house without providing any specific
details for the same. She has not deposed as to when
these incidents occurred. Hence, the entire allegation of
the petitioner is bereft of details and the allegations
stand not proved. 25. Petitioner has alleged that, the respondent
and his family would constantly belittle her by stating
that she has lived in hostel and she requires time to
adjust to the family of the respondent. In this regard
she has relied on para 10 of the statement of objection of
the respondent. Although the respondent in his
statement of objection has stated that, himself and his 29 Crl.Misc.112/2021

family members felt that petitioner has been brought up
in hostel and that petitioner needed more time to adjust.
The said statement in objection statement cannot prove
that they were belittling the petitioner by making such
an allegation. It is the perception of the respondents.
Further the petitioner herself in her petition has not
stated that the respondents were belittling her by stating
that she has been brought up in a hostel. The petitioner
has relied upon the admissions made by the respondent
in the cross examination about being in possession of
the ring, bracelet and chain given to him by the
petitioner's family at the time of marriage. But in the
same cross examination the respondent has stated that,
the petitioner is in possession of the ring gifted by him at
the time of marriage. Although this proves that, the
petitioner's family has gifted gold ornaments to the
respondent at the time of the wedding the same cannot
be termed as dowry as it is not proved by the petitioner
that the respondent has demanded these gold
ornaments. Petitioner herself has stated that, her
parents have conducted the marriage as per the
prevailing customs and rituals. Even though the
respondent has admitted being in possession fo the gold
ornaments gifted by the family of the petitioner, she has
not sought for return of these articles. Respondent's 30 Crl.Misc.112/2021

family merely expecting the wedding ceremony to be
conducted as per prevailing rituals and customs cannot
be termed as domestic violence. 26. On an overall scrutiny of the petitioner
evidence it is seen that she is not able to prove domestic
violence. the allegations made by the petitioner are not
supported by cogent, believable evidence. Moreover,
explanation II to Sec.3 of PWDV Act state that, the overall
facts and circumstance of the cases shall be taken into
consideration for the purpose of determining whether any
act, omission, commission or conduct of the respondent
constitutes domestic violence under this section.
Therefore, by taking an account of the overall facts and
circumstances of the case it can be concluded that the
respondent has not committed domestic violence against
the petitioner. 27. POINT No.2 :- As already stated commission of
domestic violence is sine qua-non to grant any of the
reliefs under PWDV Act . As per the discussion made in
point No.1 the petitioner has been unable to prove that
the respondents have committed domestic violence
against her. Hence, point No.2 answered in the
negative. Crl.Misc.112/2021 28. Point No.3 :- In view of the materials placed
 before this court, pleadings, deposition and documentary
 evidence this court proceed to pass the following; (Dictated to the stenographer directly on computer, typed by her, corrected and then
pronounced by me in open court on this the 22nd day of October 2024). (Akhila H.K.)
 JMFC (Traffic Court-VI),
 Bengaluru. ANNEXURE

 LIST OF WITNESSES EXAMINED FOR THE PETITIONER: PW.1 : Shruthi N

 LIST OF DOCUMENTS MARKED FOR THE PETITIONER: LIST OF WITNESSES EXAMINED FOR THE RESPONDENT: R.W.1 : Aprameya Shyam S

LIST OF DOCUMENTS MARKED FOR THE RESPONDENT: