1. Heard Ms. Aishwarya Swain, learned Counsel appearing (in Virtual

 Mode) for the Applicant and Mr. Gora Chand Roy Choudhury,

 learned Counsel appearing (in Virtual Mode) for the Respondent

 No.3, State Environment Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA),

 Odisha, Ms. Papiya Banerjee Bihani, learned Counsel appearing (in

 Virtual Mode) for the Respondent Nos.4, 5 & 8, Odisha State

 Pollution Control Board, Mr. Ashok Prasad, learned Counsel

 appearing (in Virtual Mode) for the Respondent No.11, Central

 Pollution Control Board and Mr. Ashok Parija, learned Advocate

 General assisted by Mr. Pravat Kumar Muduli, learned Counsel

 appearing (in Virtual Mode) for the Respondent Nos.12, 13 & 14,

 Odisha Mining Corporation, South Kaliapani Chromite Mine and

 Sukurangi Chromite Mine, respectively. 2. The allegation in the Original Application is that Respondent

 Nos.12, 13 & 14 are operating Chromites Mines in the South

 Kaliapani Chromites Mines and Sukurangi Chromites Mines, under

 Jajpur Tahasil, District- Jajpur, Odisha and are discharging

 untreated effluent into the DamshalaNala. 3. It is also alleged that the site was inspected by the Odisha State

 Pollution Control Board on 28.12.2017 and 29.12.2017 to verify the

 status of operation of upgraded ETP. It was stated that the mine 3 had completed and commissioned the upgraded ETP of capacity

 1200 KLD and 600 KLD to treat the mine drainage water of "D" quarry & "F" quarry since 30.10.2017. 4. It is alleged that from the effluent analysis report it was revealed

 that Hexavalent Chromium Concentration at the outlet of the ETP

 of "F" quarry was 0.029 mg/l and at the outlet of the ETP of "D" quarry was 0.027 mg/l. 5. It is also alleged that the inspection report was submitted on

 07.08.2019 with regard to South Kaliapani Chromite Mines wherein

 it was stated that the mine has constructed 4135 m creator boulder

 wall, 13,800 m earthen garland drain and 19 settling pits. The

 mine has also constructed about 4200 mts. garland drain around

 the dump. The surface run off which collects in the settling pit is

 pumped out to the existing ETP for treatment. However, it is alleged

 that the runoff collection and treatment facility is not provided for

 ore stack yard and south side of OB dump-1. Part of runoff

 generated from ore stack yard, OB dump-1 and new OB dump

 (Dump-2) near security gate of Sukurangi Chromite mine was

 directly discharged to the outside which ultimately flows into the

 Damsala Nalla. 6. The Odisha State Pollution Control Board also took water samples

 of the runoff water discharged from OB dump-1 and new OB dump- 2 which was sent for analysis and Hexavalent Chromium

 concentration (Cr+6) was found to be higher than the requisite 0.05

 mg/l. In this view of the matter, the Respondent No.5

 recommended that direction may be issued to the Unit to rectify the

 lapses in surface runoff management system. 7. It is stated that a show-cause notice was also issued to Respondent

 Nos. 13 and 14 i.e., South Kaliapani Chromites Mines and

 Sukurangi Chromites Mines respectively to show-cause as to why

 the Consent to Operate granted to the mine up to 01.03.2020, be

 not revoked. 8. It is stated that the Respondent No.13 filed its reply stating that the

 entire constructions shall be completed by May, 2020, before

 monsoon and that they have maintained the slope and designed the

 terraces in such a manner that no water is allowed to go beyond

 the lease area and they shall ensure to maintain the same till

 permanent mitigative measures are in place. 9. At the time of admission of the case, the Tribunal constituted a

 Committee comprising of the following members: - 10. The Committee was directed to visit the site in question of both the

 Mines of Respondent Nos.13 and 14 and inspect the same with

 reference to the allegations made in the Original Application as well

 as other violations, and violations of conditions of Consent to

 Operate if any, and submit its report with its observations and

 recommendations and in case, violations are found the Committee

 shall also compute the Environmental Compensation and fasten

 liability against the violators. 11. In response, affidavit dated 06.12.2022 has been filed on behalf of

 the Respondent Nos. 4, 5 & 8, Odisha State Pollution Control 5 Board. Along with this affidavit, an Inspection Report of inspection

carried out on 30.11.2022 by the Committee has been filed as

Annexure-R4/1. The observation of the Committee and the

parawise allegations and compliance in the Report read as under: - named beg to present this The treated wastewater is
 Original Application as against monitored by the team and
 the respondents for allowing the observed to be conforming to
 mines to function illegally the standard. without having proper Effluent
 Treatment Plant and also
 discharge wastage water in
 Sukurangi Chromite Mines and
 South Kaliapani Mines, under
 JajpurTahasil, District Jajpur,
 Odisha without proper Consent
 to Operate order which is a sine- qua-non for mining by the
 Respondent No.13. Further the present applicant
 also challenge the and inaction
 of the authority in allowing the
 mining activities in the areas of 8 Sukurangi Chromite Mines and
 South Kaliapani Mines area
 without proper and adequate
 and proper Effluent Treatment
 Plant. 5.1 That the local residents of No comments
 Sukinda Valley, District Jajpur,
 which is surrounding by
 Brahmani River and the people
 of that district are dependent on
 that particular river for the
 purposes of irrigation, drinking,
 farming and other requirements. Moreover, this particular locality
 is having a population of over
 50,000 people. Most of the
 inhabitants of this area are
 farmers and are fully dependent
 on the river Brahmani and
 DamshalaNala for cultivation,
 fishing and other activities. 5.2 That it most humbly submitted Upgraded ETPs are of
 here that, on 30.12.2017 the capacity 1200 KL/Hour and
 respondent no.5 wrote a letter 300 KL/Hour instead of
 bearing no. 5119 to the 1200 KLD and 600 KLD.
 respondent no.6 to verify the
 status of operation up-graded All the outlet parameters like
 Effluent Treatment Plant pH, TSS and Cr+6 are within
 (hereinafter ETP) and online the prescribed standard of
 monitoring system of South the Board. Kaliapani Chromite Mines of
 M/s OMC Ltd. i.e. the
 respondent no.1 at South
 Kaliapani. Further it is humbly submitted
 here that, in the said letter the
 respondent no.5 stated that the
 South Kaliapani Chromite Mines
 of the Respondent No.12 was
 inspected on 28.12.2017 and 9 29.12.2017 to verify the status
 of operation and upgraded ETP. The mine has completed &
 commissioned upgraded ETP of
 capacity of 1200 KLD & 600
 KLD respectively to treat the
 mine drainage water of "D'
 quarry & "F" quarry in all
 aspects since 30.10.2017. the
 ETP consist of bar screen, oil
 and grease tap, equalization- cum-settling tank, dozing tanks,
 secondary clarifier, sludge
 drying filter press, pressure and
 filter (PSF), activated carbon
 filter (ACF) and treated a effluent
 collection tank. Further it is
 stated here that, after up
 gradation of ETP first water
 quality monitoring was
 conducted on 14.11.2017, from
 the analysis report it was
 revealed that the Hexavalent
 Chromium Concentration at
 outlet of ETP of 'F' quarry was
 0.0029 mg/l and at outlet of ETP
 of 'D' quarry was 0.027 mg/l. the other parameters like pH
 and TSS values at both the ETP
 outlet were within prescribed
 standard of the Board. The mine
 has also installed online water
 quality monitoring system at the
 inlet & outlet to ETP with online
 Data transmission facility at
 both the ETP. 5.3 That it is noteworthy to mention Surface run off collection
 here that, on 07.09.2019 the structure have been
 Regoinal Officer of the constructed near Koiposi for
 respondent no.5 provided to the collection of surface runoff 10 respondent no.6 the inspection water from OB Dump-2 near
report dated 07.08.2019 on security gate of Sukurangi
surface runoff management of Chromite Mines which is
South Kaliapani Chromite Mines pumped out to quarry 'D' ETP
wherein it was stated that the for treatment the treated
mine has constructed 4135 m water is being discharged
creator boulder wall, 13800m outside.
earthen garland drain and 19 Surface runoff collection
nos. settling pit. The mine has structures have also been
constructed about 4200 mts constructed near ore stack
garland drain around the dump. yard and south side of OB
The surface runoff collected in Dump-1. The collected
the settling pit is pumped out to surface runoff water is
the existing ETP for treatment. pumped out to quarry 'D' ETP
It is important to mention here for treatment. After proper
that it was found that runoff treatment the treated water
collection & treatment facility is is being discharged outside.
not provided for ore stack yard
and south side of OB dump-1. Part of Runoff generated from
ore stack yard, OB dump-1 &
new OB dump (Dump-2) near
security gate of Sukurangi
Chromite mine was directly
discharge dto outside which
ultimately meets to
DamsalaNalla. Sample was
collected during visit from OB
dump (Dump-2) near security
gate of Sukurangi Chromite
mines which was discharged to
outside & as per analysis report,
it does not meet the prescribed
standard of the board w.r.t. Cr+6. The mine drainage water
from D quarry pumped to the
ETP capacity of 1200 KL/Hr and
F quarry pumped t the ETP of
capacity 300 KL/Hr for
treatment. After the treatment, the treated 11 water is discharged into
 DamsalaNalla through natural
 drains. After inspection the
 respondent no.5 found that the
 water samples of runoff water
 discharged from OB dump-1 and
 new OB dump-2 was collected
 for analysis during visit. The
 concentration of Cr+6 in these
 samples was found to be higher
 than stipulated limit of 0.05
 mg/l. In view of the above the
 respondent no.5 recommended
 to direction may be issued to the
 unit to rectify the lapse in
 surface runoff management
 system. 5.4 That it is pertinent to mention Show cause notice was
 here that on 24.10.2019 the issued vide letter no. 11375
 respondent no.5 issued a show dtd. 24.10.2019 to South
 cause notice for revocation of Kaliapani Chromite Mines for
 consent to operate u/s 25/26 of some non-compliances to
 Water (PCP) Act, 1974 & section CTO conditions i.e. (i) not
 21 of Air (PCP) Act, 1981 to the having surface run off
 respondent no.13 on basis of collection and treatment
 inspection dated 07.08.2019 facility for part of ore stock
 and directed him to file show yard area and part of over
 cause as to why consent to burden dump no.1, (ii)
 operate granted in favour of his discharge of part of run off
 mine up to 01.03.2020, shall not water from over burden on.1
 be revoked. and over burden no.2 was
 found to be prescribed
 discharge standard of the
 Board. 5.5 That after receipt of the show In response to the show
 cause notice on 06.11.2019 the cause notice the unit had
 respondent no.13 filed the reply submitted the reply within
 wherein he replied that, the due date of the notice served
 entire constructions shall be vide its letter no. 3190 dt.
 completed by May, 2020, before 06.11.2019 indicating that 12 monsoon and further replied that they have maintained the
 they have maintained the slope slope and designed the
 and designed the terraces so terraces so that no water
 that no water is allowed to go would be allowed to go
 beyond the lease area they shall beyond the lease area till
 ensure to maintain the same till permanent mitigation
 a permanent mitigative measure measures would be pumped
 are in place. Wherever possible, out to treat through ETP and
 they will pump out the requested to permit till May
 accumulated water to treat 2020 i.e. before the monsoon
 through ETP. to complete the entire
 construction work for
 permanent mitigation
 measures. 5.6 That further on 17.03.2020 the After receiving the reply to
 Regional Officer of the the show cause notice the
 respondent no.5 sent an mine was inspected on
 inspection report of the South 11.03.2020 to verify the
 Kaliapani Chromite Mines of the environment practice and
 Respondent no.12 dated compliance to consent
 11.03.2020 wherein the conditions as well as show
 respondent no.5 observed that cause notice and inspection
 the respondent no.13 violated report of Regional Office
 the conditions of consent to submitted vide letter no. 493
 operate. the consent to operate dtd. 17.03.2020.
 has been granted to the mine for
 production of Chrome Ore (ROM) It was reported in the
 1.4 MTPA and COB plant of inspection report that several
 throughput capacity 0.47 MTPA numbers of earthen settling
 which valid up to 31.03.2020. tanks were constructed at
 Further it is verified that the different locations for
 total Chrome Ore production of channelizing the entire run
 the mine during 2018-19 is off water of the said area to
 1050513 MT. the water used for settling tanks through
 various activities and the garland drain and no
 sources are water and bore well. discharge of untreated run
 further it was observed by the off to outside was found.
 respondent no.5 that the mine is Quality of treated water at
 fully mechanized opencast mine both the ETPs outlets was
 and drilling is being done with within the prescribed 13 the wet drilling arrangement standard of the Board.
 facilities in drilling machine like
 inbuilt dust extraction system &
 water injection system for dust
 suppression. 5.7 That such action of illegal As mentioned in sl no.5.6
 discharge of wastage water has
 damaged the private and public
 properties as well as aquatic
 habitats. Excessive discharge of
 pre-treated/untreated water has
 significantly distorted the
 natural equilibrium of the stream
 channel. 5.8 That while the said mines Both the mines have valid
 sources started operating the consent to operate during the
 respondent no.12 obtained alleged period i.e. 2017 and
 consent to operate under from onwards as mentioned in the
 respondent no.5 wherein the OA. consent to operate was allowed
 till 31.03.2025 it has come to
 knowledge of the applicant from
 reliable sources which he believe
 to be true that after the consent
 to operate is extended the
 conditions stipulated therein is
 not at all followed by the
 authorities and respondents in
 any manner whatsoever. On the
 other hand without having a
 consent order respondent no.13
 are still extracting/discharging
 the wastage water from the
 Sukurangi Chromite Mines area
 to other areas and beyond the
 specified area also thus for the
 same, the respondent no.12 and
 13 are liable. 5.9 That it is most humbly submitted As mentioned in sl. no. 5.8
 that there are two chromite 14 mines. Both these mining
 sources are generally allotted for
 chromite mining by way of a
 tender process. It is pertinent to
 mention here that on 18.10.2021
 the respondent no.12 got
 consent order for chromite
 mining from Sukurangi Chromite
 Mines for a period of 2 years i.e.,
 till 31.03.2023, which was
 issued by the State Pollution
 Control Board, Odisha for the
 purpose of consent for discharge
 of sewage and trade effluent
 under section 25/26 of Water
 (PCP) Act, 1974 and for
 existing/new operation of the
 plant under section 21 of Air
 (PCP) Act, 1981 from Sukurangi
 Chromite Mines to South
 Kaliapani Chromite Mines. 5.10 That after the consent was over As mentioned in sl. no. 5.8
 the respondent no.12 started the
 mining operation and discharges
 the wastage water from
 Sukurangi Chromite Mines to
 DamasalaNala, Jajpur. Further
 It is submitted that Sukinda
 Valley in Jajpur district of
 Odisha contains about 98% of
 chromite reserve and it is
 exploited mostly by opencast
 mining process since 1950. 5.11 That Hexavalent Chromium is a The standard of Hexavalent
 highly toxic form of chromium Chromium as per the E(P)
 metal mainly used in different Rules, 1986 is 0.1 mg/l.
 industrial applications for its however, considering the
 anticorrosive properties. Due to sensitivity of Sukinda Valley,
 open cast mining process lots of the State Board has
 over burden area being stipulated a stringent 15 generated and leaching from this standard of 0.05 mg/l for
 over burden adds the discharge for all mines in the
 Hexavalent Chromium to ground valley including South
 water regime. Ground water in Kaliapani Mines.
 the valley is encountered at a
 shallow depth in semi-confined
 aquifer. Hexavalent Chromium is
 carcinogenic beyond permissible
 limit (0.05 mg/l). Therefore, there
 is a threat of contamination of
 Hexavalent Chromium to the
 ground water regime of the
 valley as well as to the
 environment. 5.12 That it is a matter of great Anaerobic lagoons is
 concern that the general employed to treat effluent
 condition of the consent order with high BOD. In the context
 the care should be taken to keep of South Kaliapani Mines the
 the anaerobic lagoons, if any, treatment is carried out to
 biologically active and not treat the Hexavalent
 utilized as mere stagnation Chromium, which is done
 ponds. The anaerobic lagoons through chemical process.
 should be fed with the required The general condition no.17
 nutrients for effective digestion. in the consent order is
 Lagoons should be construed therefore not applicable in
 with side and bottom made this case.
 impervious. But the respondent
 no.13 has miserably failed in
 complying such conditions. 5.13 That it is also mentioned under Sukurangi Chromite Mines
 Special Conditions at Clause 12 has no dedicated ETP. All
 of Consent Order that mine shall surface runoff water is being
 furnish the details of the accumulated at quarry and
 adequacy of its surface runoff settling ponds of Sukurangi
 management system in place Chromite Mines and the
 and submit a declaration that no same is routed to Quarry-F
 runoff water will be discharged ETP of adjoining mining lease
 to outside during monsoon. of South Kaliapani through
 Further at Clause 13, it is pipe line connection. Finally,
 mentioned that, mine drainage the treated water after 16 water shall be discharged into treatment in F-Quarry ETP is
surface water body after being discharged outside as
adequate treatment in the per the conditions stipulated
upgraded ETP of South in consent to operate order.
Kaliapani Mine. The treated Samples were collected
waste water of upgraded ETP during visit from inlet and out
shall also be utilized for let of Quarry-D ETP and as
sprinkling activities at various per analysis report it
sources of generation of dust. revealed that quality of
Conjoint reading of these two treated water from the out let
conditions will to show that the of ETP meeting the
Sukurangi Mines doesn't have prescribed standard of the
ETP, therefore the respondent Board w.r.t. pH, TSS, Cr+6.
no.14 are sending it to South
Kaliapani Mines. That because
of such type of activities by the
respondent no.14 not only the
river bed is being affected but
also the same is creating a
hazardous environment for the
Sukinda Valley, Jajpur and its
eco system. Due to such illegal
discharge of wastage water it
has affected the ecosystem of
the locality along with the river
bed. It is quite obviously understood
that, the respondent no.12
taking the pr-treated/untreated
water from Sukurangi Chromite
Mines to South Kaliapani Mines
for treatment. But how the respondent B. No. 12, 13 and 14 are transporting without any
pilferage without discharge in
the midway nowhere is
mentioned and the respondent
no.12 are not maintaining the
same. While the respondent
no.14 is sending pre- treated/untreated waste water 17 which is hazardous water to
 South Kaliapani Mines, it is clear
 that Sukurangi Chromite Mines
 is not treating the entire waste
 water. Some amount of the total
 water is being sent for treatment
 for official records only and rest
 of the waste hazardous water
 are being thrown out to the river
 through one Nalla, polluting the
 environment for which not only
 the river eco system is being
 polluted but also the human life
 and flor and fauna of the
 environment is being severely
 affected. 5.14 That it is important to mention No surface run-off is
 here that the respondent no. 12, discharged to outside. Rather
 13 and 14 should not discharge the run-off is collected within
 the runoff water to outside then the mine and pumped to the
 it is understandable that the ETP located in the adjacent
 respondent no.14 should have a lease for the adequate
 treatment plant inside the mines treatment.
 but it is sending the untreated
 water to South Kaliapani Mines
 that means the respondent no. 12, 13 and 14 are violating the
 clause 12. Runoff water are
 either not treated causing huge
 environmental issues for the
 public, for local inhabitants and
 for the flora & fauna of the area
 or the respondent no.12, 13 &
 14 are not complying both the
 clauses. 5.15 That it is pertinent to mention As mentioned in sl. no. 5.13
 here that, there is question that
 the respondent no.12 transport
 the pre-treated/untreated wate
 water from Sukurangi Mines to 18 South Kaliapani Mines is being
 done in which manner and
 whether total waste water is
 being treated or not. the
 respondent no.12 are not
 treating the entire waste water
 rand causing huge
 environmental issues in the
 locality. 5.16 That the volume of runoff water Regular monitoring by the
 can be calculated from the area State Pollution Control Board
 of the mines and the average indicates that the treated
 rain fall which is available on water is meeting the
 record, therefore it is crystal stringent standard
 clear that, South Kaliapani prescribed by the Board. This
 Mines having more volume of indicates that the ETPs have
 runoff water itself not capable of adequate capacity to treat
 treating its own Runoff water in the effluent. its ETP. Therefore it is
 questionable that how the ETP of
 South Kaliapani Mines is
 treating the Runoff water (pre- treated/untreated) of Sukurangi
 Mines. This creates a lot of
 confusion and compels the
 applicant to put questions on the
 management of the respondent
 no.12, 13 and 14 and illegal,
 arbitrary action in managing the
 waste water. 5.17 That it is most important to No comments. mention here that, the Odisha
 counts about 98% of total proved
 chromium from the more
 reserves of the country of which
 about 97% occur in
 SukindaValley and overall area
 covering the approximately 200
 sq. kms. In Jajpur District. Therefore the mines functioning 19 on those area needs to be more
 careful for having a sustainable
 development vis-à-vis
 environmental ecosystem. 5.18 That the respondent no.5 The adequacy of the
 recorded the occurrence of treatment system was
 chromium in the mines drainage evaluated by IIT, Kharagpur
 water of the chromite mines in and the treatment plants
 the Sukinda Valley in 1980s, no were upgraded as per the
 techno economically viable recommendation of IIT
 treatment methods for chromium Kharagpur.
 was available therein. At present there are 2 nos of
 Subsequently, though it is found upgraded ETP is available at
 that, there are some treatment South Kaliapani Mines
 plants are established but those having capacity of 1200
 are not adequate for the volume KL/Hr& 300 KL/Hr.
 of Runoff water and the volume Sukurangi Chromite Mines
 of wastage water which are has no dedicated ETP. All
 coming out of the respondent no. surface runoff water is being
 13 & 14 of respondent no.12. accumulated at quarry and
 settling ponds of Sukurangi
 Chromite Mine sand the ame
 is routed to Quarry-F ETP of
 adjoining mining lease of
 South Kaliapani through pipe
 line connection. Finally, the
 treated water after treatment
 in F-Quarry ETP is being
 discharged outside as per the
 conditions stipulated in
 consent to operate order. Samples were collected
 during visit from inlet and out
 let of Quarry-D ETP and as
 per analysis report it
 revealed that quality of
 treated water from the out let
 of ETP meeting the
 prescribed standard of the
 Board w.r.t. pH, TSS, Cr+6. 5.19 That a study was conducted by No comments. Odisha Voluntary Health
 Association (OVHA)
 Bhubaneswar to access the
 health impacts due to chromite
 mining. This is perhaps the first
 and by far the only such
 document report a random
 sample of 188 household out of
 total 373 in villages near 4
 Chromite mines of Sukinda
 which includes mines of the
 respondent no.12 and having
 major stake in that area was
 selected for the study and it was
 found that morbidity, which is
 the most important and sensitive
 indicator of ill health, reveals
 something starting in findings. In
 the morbidity pattern it shows a
 great variance between certain
 chromium induced diseases. 5.20 That chromium exists in two Both the mines are operating
 stable states a Hexavalent with valid consent to operate
 chromium and Trivalent of SPCB. At present there are
 Chromium. Out of which 2 nos of upgraded ETP is
 Hexavalent Chromium Cr+6 is available at South Kaliapani
 the most toxi form. Trivalent Mines having capacity of
 Chromium doesn't induce nay 1200 KL/Hr& 300 KL/Hr.
 harmful effect when it fade with Sukurangi Chromite Mines
 water or food in the living has no dedicated ETP. All
 organisms. Hexavalent surface runoof water is being
 Chromium Cr+6 are beyond a accumulated at quarry and
 certain concentration and toxic settling ponds of Sukurangi
 which have many adverse Chromite mines and the
 impacts on environment. As a same is routed to Quarry-F
 result of growing open cast ETP of adjoining mining lease
 mining activities by respondent of South Kaliapani through
 no. 12, 13 and 14 in mining area pipe line connection. Finally,
 i.e. Sukurangi Mines and South the treated water after 21 Kaliapani Mines, the treatment in F-Quarry ETP is
 environment is under threat. In being discharged outside as
 Suinda Mining area around 7.6 per the conditions stipulated
 million tons of solid wastes has in consent to operate order.
 been generated in form of Samples were collected
 rejected over burden during visit from inlet and out
 material/waste rock and Sub- let of Quarry-D ETP and as
 Grade ore that may be resulting per analysis report it
 in the environment degradation revealed that quality of
 mainly causing lowering in the treated water from the out let
 water level as well as of ETP meeting the
 deterioration in surface and prescribed standard of the
 ground water quality. Board w.r.t. pH, TSS, Cr+6.
5.21 That according to the Indian The Board is aware of the
 Standard the permissible limit of risk of Chromium
 Hexavalent Chromium form Contamination in Sukinda
 portable water is 0.05 ppm and Valley, therefore engaged IIT,
 for industrial discharge of water Kharagpur for a detailed
 is 0.1 ppm as per the Central study. As per the
 Pollution Control Board ( CPC B) recommendation of IIT,
 Guidelines. In Sukinda area the Kharagpur all the mines
 laterization process involving were directed to uypgrade
 oxidation and alteration of the ETP to mitigate risk. On
 serpentines creates alkaline ore top of that the standard for
 water which facilitates the the treated water was also
 generation of Cr+6 Hexavalent made more stringent than the
 Chromium from in not chromites CPC B guideline.
 and causes hazardous chromite Samples were collected
 pollution of water. The ground during visit from inlet and out
 water in the Suinda Valley let of Quarry-D ETP and as
 occurs in the depth of 8 to 11 per analysis report it
 m3eters and when it comes in revealed that quality of
 contact with the atmospheric air treated water from the out let
 and chrome ore during the mines of ETP meeting the
 it gets contaminated with prescribed standard of the
 Hexavalent Chromnium beyond Board w.r.t. pH, TSS, Cr+6.
 the permissible limit which is a
 threat to the human civilization. 5.22 That there has been several As mentioned in sl. no. 5.21
 reports and study on the effect 22 of Hexavalent Chromium in the
 environment and human
 civilization which causes water
 po9llution as result of which not
 only the environment, the flora &
 fauna but also the civilization
 and existing of the human and
 other living beings are under
 threat. 5.23 That it is important to mention As mentioned in sl. no. 5.20. here that from the inspection
 report of the pollution control
 board, it is found that the
 respondent no.12 mines i.e.
 Sukyurangi and South Kaliapani
 have not complied with many of
 the conditions under the consent
 order as per the guidelines of
 State Pollution Control Board vis- à-vis Central Pollution Control
 Board. There is no sufficient ETP
 available in both the mines i.e.
 Sukurangi Mines and South
 Kaliapani Mines. There is no
 provision for collecting the
 surface run of water or for that
 matter the respondent no.14
 have not done the lagoons and
 therefore no impervious button is
 also prepared which is
 dangerous for the ground water
 level. 5.24 That it is impost humbly No comments
 submitted that, while the above
 mention, Mines sources were
 being extracted/discharged the
 wastage water, it is found that
 the respondent no.12 (OMC) is
 adopting illegal methods and
 violating specific guidelines and 23 norms resulting in environment
 threat and huge losses. Therefore, a detailed complaint
 was sent to the respondent
 no.12 where in it is specifically
 averred and prayed to calculate
 the environmental loss/hazard
 caused by your mine since last
 so many years and pay
 compensation and to take
 immediate steps for rectifying
 the error within a period of 15
 days with appropriate
 information to the undersigned. However, no action has been
 taken till date. 5.25 That due to the above the No comments
 ground water level of the area is
 also gradually decreasing. The
 proposed river bed mining is
 against the spirit of the Article
 48A and 51A (g) that mandates
 for protection of environment and Article 21 of Constitution of
 India. 6 That, as discharging the No wastewater is observed to
 wastage water from Sukurangi be discharged from
 Chromite Mines to the Sukurangi Chromite Mines to
 DamsalaNalla bed is goind DamsalaNalla.
 throughout the day (24 hrs) day. 7. That illegal and unregulated As mentioned in sl. no. 5.20. activities of the Orissa Mining
 Corporation violating the
 environmental norms and
 condition of the consent to
 operate order thereby damaging
 river bed along with the
 surrounding villages and also
 the environment. 8 That it is pertinent to mention Both the mines are operating 24 here that, the ETP/mining from with valid consent to operate
 the Sukurangi Chromite Mines of SPCB during the alleged
 are done in the season which period i.e. 2017 an onwards.
 start from the year of 2017 and
 continued till the year of 2023. Samples were collected
 Therefore even though the leases during visit from inlet and out
 i.e. respondent no. 13 do not let of Quarry-D ETP and as
 have the Consent Order and per analysis report it
 even though there has been revealed that quality of
 cases/allegations/litigation treated water from the out let
 against the said lease they are of ETP meeting the
 mining ETP the most unfortunate prescribed standard of the
 part is the state machineries Board w.r.t. pH, TSS, Cr+6.
 being in hand in gloves with the
 respondent no.12 are allowing
 such acts. 9 That the mining is supposed to Both the mines are operating
 take place only in the dry pits, with valid consent to operate
 however the mining in the of SPCB during the alleged
 present case were in-stream and period i.e. 2017 an onwards. unsustainable mining and
 particularly more than that could
 be harvested in an ordinary way
 leading to over exploitation and
 same is become subject to the
 deep mechanical ETP mining. And for this reason, the source
 at Sukinda Valley, Jajpur is also
 no more suitable and feasible
 sustainable for mining of
 chromium and the river could not
 replenish in the natural way
 because of over exploitation. It is
 most humbly submitted that the
 human and flora & fauna are
 affected due to scarcity of the
 water, which is because of the
 illegal activities of the State
 Government. Grounds
I For that the instant application No comments
 being filed U/s 14 under the Act
 raising the substantial question
 wherein the community at large
 and the environment is grossly
 affected and is coming within
 the ambit of section 2(m) of the
 Act. Section 2(m) of the Act
 provides that substantial
 question relating to environment
 cell include an instance where
 the community at large other
 than an individual or group of
 individuals is affected or likely
 to be affected by the
 environmental consequences. The arbitrary action of the
 respondents is antithesis to the
 doctrine of public trust as upheld
 and laid down by the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court in a plethora of
 judgments. II For that the environment as No comments
 defined U/s 2(a) of Environment
 Protection Act, 1986 provides
 "Environment includes water, air
 and land and the inter
 relationship which exist among
 and between water, air and land
 and human beings, other living
 creators plant, micro-organism
 and property." The term
 environment as defined above
 inherently includes climate
 within its scope. Hence the
 present original application
 which is being preferred because
 of the adverse impact of the
 impugned action of the 26 respondent comes within the
 ambit and jurisdiction of this
 Hon'ble Tribunal. III For that without the consent Both South Kaliapani and
 order, the operation of the Sukurangi Chromite Mines of
 mining activities by the M/s OMC Ltd. is operating
 respondent no. 12, 13 & 14 is with valid consent to operate.
 illegal. IV That the mining activities are Both the mines are operating
 done without ETP and without with valid consent to operate
 environmental clearance. of SPCB. At present there are
 2 nos of upgraded ETP is
 available at South Kaliapani
 Mines having capacity of
 1200 KL/Hr& 300 KL/Hr. The mines have also
 obtained EC from the
 MoEF&CC, Govt. of India.`
V For that the mining activities are As mentioned in sl. no. 5.20
 done without the statutory
 compliance and without having
 proper ETP plant. VI For that the inspection As mentioned in sl. no. 5.20
 conducted by the respondent
 no.5 makes it crystal clear that
 the respondent no.12, 13 and
 14 violating all the guidelines of
 consent order and discharging
 the protected/un-treated water
 to the DamsalaNalla and nearby
 river. VII For that it is crystal clear from As mentioned in sl. no. 5.20
 the three inspection reports that
 the respondent no. 12, 13 and
 14 have not followed the
 guidelines and hence they
 should not operate the mining. VIII For that the state government is As mentioned in sl. no. 5.20
 closing its eyes towards the
 illegal activities of the 27 respondent no.12 been there is
 no permission from the
 authority. IX For that the mining activities are No comments
 being done for 24 hours whereas
 the same is not permissible. X For that due to the discharge the No comments
 wastage water the river path is
 diverted and affected grossly but
 no action has yet been taken
 against the respondent no.12. XI For that even though the As mentioned in sl. no. 5.20. 12. Affidavit dated 10.01.2023 has been filed by the Respondent No.11,

 Central Pollution Control Board. The brief observations of the

 Committee have been quoted in paragraph-5 of the affidavit which

 read as under: - 13. Affidavit dated 06.12.2022 has been filed by the Respondent Nos.12

 to 14, denying the allegations made in the Original Application. It is

 stated that the South Kaliapani Chromite Mines and theSukurangi

 Chromite Mines are adjacent to each other, the South Kaliapani

 Chromite Mines of the Respondent No.12 is having two ETPs of

 1200 KL/Hr capacity and 300 KL/Hr capacity for treatment of

 both, mine discharge water as well as surface run-off water

 generated from the South Kaliapani Chromite mines. It is also

 stated that upgraded ETPs at South Kaliapani Chromite Mines have

 been designed, installed and successfully commissioned to cater to 29 the need of hexavalent chromium from the surface run-off water

 generated from both the mines as well as the mine water discharge. It is further stated that since the Quarry-F ETP of South Kaliapani

 Chromite Mines is adjacent to the Sukurangi Chromite Mines, the

 said ETP is also being utilized for treatment of surface run-offwater

 accumulated at Sukurangi ACDE Quarry of Sukurangi Chromite

 Mines. It is further stated that effluents of the ETPs have

 conformed to the prescribed outlet parameters like pH, TSS and

 Cr+6 and are well within the prescribed standards of the Pollution

 Control Board. It is also stated that adequate surface run-off

 structures have been constructed near Koiposi for collection of

 surface run-off water from OB Dump-2 near Security Gate of

 Sukurangi Chromite Mines which is pumped out to Quarry-D ETP

 through pipeline for treatment. After treatment this water is

 discharged outside. It is further stated that similar adequate

 surface run-off structures have also been constructed near Ore

 stack yard and south side of OB Dump-1 for collection of surface

 run-off water of South Kaliapani Chromite Mines. The collected

 surface run-off water is then pumped out to Quarry-D ETP through

 pipeline for treatment and after proper treatment, the treated water

 is being discharged outside. 14. In the affidavit, it is also stated that the Consent to Operate (CTO)

 in respect of South Kaliapani Chromite Mines, Respondent No.13,is

 valid till 31.03.2025 whereas the Consent to Operate (CTO) in

 respect of Sukurangi Chromite Mines, Respondent No.14,is valid till

 31.03.2023. 15. In the affidavit of the Respondent Nos.12, 13 & 14, it is further

 stated that the degraded ETPs at South Kaliapani Chromite Mines 30 have been designed, installed and successfully commissioned to

 cater to the treatment of Hexavalent Chromium from the surface

 run-off generated from the mines as well as the Mine water

 discharge, as per the conceptual Plan of IIT, Kharagpur and M/s

 MECON, Ranchi, a Government of India Enterprise, as a Project

 Management Consultant (PMC). 16. The Respondents have categorically denied the allegations that in

 the Sukinda Mining area, about 7.6 Million Tonnes of solid wastes

 has been generated in the form of rejected over burden

 material/waste rock and Sub-Grade Ore resulting in the

 Environment degradation. In reply, it is stated that the Respondent

 No.12 has engaged CSIR-Institute of Minerals & Materials

 Technology, Bhubaneswar, to carry out Phyto-remediation of

 Hexavalent Chromium (Cr+6) from part OB Dump at South

 Kaliapani Chromite Mines over an area of 10 Ha. through selected

 indigenous Plant species. It is also stated that the study is still

 under progress and if the results are foundto be encouraging, the

 same can be applied to all parts of the Chromite Valley. 17. The further allegation in the Original Application that ground water

 in Sukinda Valley occurs at a depth of 8 to 11 meters but when it

 comes in contact with the atmospheric air and Chrome Ore, it gets

 contaminated with Hexavalent Chromium beyond the permissible

 limit, has been categorically denied and it is stated that the

 Respondent No.12 has engaged M/s CEMC Pvt. Ltd. [National

 Accreditation Board of Laboratories (NABL) accredited Laboratory]

 for monitoring Hexavalent Chromium in ground water quality from

 different locations on monthly basis and the Test Report of the

 water quality has been found to be within the permissible limit by 31 the Pollution Control Board. It is further stated that the allegation

 in the Original Application that the Respondent Nos.12, 13 & 14

 are discharging the pretreated/un-treated water into the Damsala

 Nalla and nearby river is belied by the Inspection Report already on

 record. 18. From the documents on record, we find that the Inspection Report

 clearly records that during inspection both the Effluent Treatment

 Plants (ETPs) were under operation. The South Kaliapani Chromite

 Mine has installed two ETPs with the capacity of 1200 KL/Hr and

 300 KL/Hr for Quarry-D and Quarry-F respectively. The mine

 drainage water from Quarry-D, Quarry-F & Sukurangi Chromite

 Mines is treated in the ETPs and after treatment it is used in dust

 suppression, plantation and rest of the treated water is discharged

 outside which ultimately meets the Damsalla Nalla through natural

 drains. The water samples collected during the visit from the inlet

 and outlet of Quarry-D EPT as per Analysis Report were found to

 meet the prescribed standard of the Board with respect to pH, TSS

 and Cr+6. The Report clearly records that there is no violation of

 conditions of Consent to Operate (CTO). 19. The Inspection Report further states that upgraded ETPs are of

 capacity 1200 KL/Hr and 300 KL/Hr instead of 1200 KLD and 600

 KLD. All outlet parameters like pH, TSS and Cr+6 are within the

 prescribed standard of the Board. 20. The Report also mentions that surface run-off collection structure

 have been constructed near Koiposi for collection of surface run-off

 water from OB Dump-2 near the Security Gate of Sukurangi

 Chromite Mines which is pumped out to Quarry-D ETP for 32 treatment and after treatment the treated water is being discharged

 outside. 21. In the Report, it is also mentioned that Show Cause Notice was

 issued to the South Kaliapani Chromite Mines vide letter No.11375

 dated 24.10.2019 with regard to some non-compliances mentioned

 in the Report which are already quoted hereinabove and in

 response to the Show Cause Notice, the Unit submitted its reply

 vide letter No.3190 dated 06.11.2019 indicating that they have

 maintained the slope and designed the terraces in such a manner

 that no water would be allowed to go beyond the lease area till

 permanent mitigation measures are put in place and the

 accumulated water would be pumped out to be treated through

 ETPs and they requested for time till May, 2020 i.e., before the

 monsoon to complete the entire construction work for permanent

 mitigation measures. 22. In response, the Committee has noted, that the Mine was again

 inspected on 11.03.2020 and it was observed that several earthen

 settling tanks were constructed at different locations for

 channelizing the entire run-off water of the said area to settling

 tanks through garland drain and no discharge of untreated run-off

 to outside was found. The quality of treated water at both the ETP

 outlets was found to be within the prescribed standard of the

 Board. The Inspection Team also noted that both the mines have

 valid Consent to Operate (CTO) during the alleged period of 2017

 and onwards as mentioned in the Original Application which is also

 apparent from the Show Cause Notice issued by the Odisha State

 Pollution Control Board on 24.10.2019, (page no.43 Annexure-3 of

 the Original Application), where it is mentioned that the Consent to 33 Operate (CTO) granted to the South Kaliapani Chromite Mine was

 valid upto 31.03.2020. Consent to Operate (CTO) being granted for

 five years would also show that the mine in question had a valid

 Consent to Operate (CTO) even in 2017. 23. The Report further discloses that the standard of Hexavalent

 Chromium, as per the Environment (Protection) Rule, 1986 is 0.1

 mg/l but considering the sensitivity of the Sukinda Valley, the

 State Board has stipulated a stringent standard of 0.05 mg/l for

 discharge from the mines in the Valley including South Kaliapani

 Mines and the Applicant has also noted in paragraph 5.2 of the

 Original Application that the Hexavalent Chromium concentration

 at the outlet of the ETP of the 'F' Quarry was 0.029 mg/l and at the

 outlet of 'D' Quarry it was 0.027 mg/l, i.e., well within the

 prescribed standard parameters. In fact, perusal of the Water Analysis Report dated

 30.12.2017 filed at page no.38 of the Original Application, shows

 the Cr+6 report at the outlet of ETP to be 0.036 mg/l of the South

 Kaliapani Chromite Mines and the Water Quality Report at page

 no.42 of the Original Application (documents filed by the

 Applicant), shows the Cr+6 to be 0.041 mg/l at the outlet in

 Quarry-D and 0.023 mg/l at the outlet of ETP of Quarry-F and run-

 off from new OB Dump (Dump-2) near Security Gate of Sukurangi

 Chromite Mines discharge to outside leading to Damsala Nalla is

 0.084 mg/l as per Water Analysis Report dated 06.09.2019

 whereas the standard of concentration of Cr+6 prescribed by the

 State Pollution Control Board is 0.05 mg/l. Therefore, these reports

 are also well within the standards prescribed by the State Pollution

 Control Board for Cr+6. The Committee also noted Anaerobic lagoon has been

 employed to treat effluent with high BOD. 24. The Inspection Committee further noted that the Sukurangi

 Chromite Mines has no dedicated ETP. All surface run-off water is

 being accumulated at the quarry and the settling ponds of

 Sukurangi Chromite Mines and the same is routed to Quarry-F ETP

 of the adjoining mining lease of South Kaliapani through pipeline

 connection and finally, the treated water after treatment in Quarry- F ETP is being discharged outside as per conditions stipulated in

 the Consent to Operate (CTO). The water samples collected and the

 Analysis Report, show that the quality of treated water from the

 outlet of the ETP conform to the prescribed standards of the Board

 with respect to pH, TSS and Cr+6. 25. A categorical finding has been recorded that no surface run-off is

 discharged to the outside. Rather the run-off water is collected

 within the mine and the pumped to the ETP located in the adjacent

 lease. It is stated that the Mines have also obtained Environmental

 Clearance from the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate

 Change, Government of India. It is also stated that State Pollution

 Control Board is carrying out regular monitoring to ensure that the

 treated water is meeting the stringent standards prescribed by the

 Board. 26. Water Analysis Report has been filed at page no.134 of the paper

 book which shows the Report to be within the standards prescribed

 by the Odisha State Pollution Control Bard for pH, TSS and Cr+6. 27. For reasons aforesaid, nothing further remains for adjudication in

 the present Original Application and the same is accordingly

 dismissed. 28. Interlocutory Applications, if any, stand disposed of accordingly. 29. There shall be no order as to costs. .....................................
 B. Amit Sthalekar, JM

 ....................................
 Prof. A. Senthil Vel, EM
January 11, 2023,
Original Application No.137/2022/EZ
MN 36