Present : Mr. Rahul Rampal, Advocate
 for the petitioner(s). Mr. Manipal Singh Atwal, DAG Punjab. *****

AMAN CHAUDHARY. J. This common order shall dispose of above-mentioned two petitions,

as they arise out of same FIR. Present petitions have been filed under Section 438 of the Code of

Criminal Procedure for grant of anticipatory bail in FIR No.211 dated 07.10.2022,

under Sections 420 and 120-B of IPC registered at Police Station Sarabha Nagar,

District Ludhiana. Briefly, put the facts are that the FIR has been registered on the basis

of the complaint made by complainant Neeraj Anand, wherein it has been alleged

that complainant was having visiting terms with Dharampal, whose son had

completed his studies and was looking for a job. In the year 2018, the

complainant met with ASI Ram Krishan through Dharampal and in that meeting,

 1 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 01-06-2023 17:15:08 ::: Neutral Citation No:=

CRM-M-727-2023 (O&M) -2-

ASI Ram Krishan told the complainant that he along with his wife Paramjit Kaur

is doing business with international company Cryptobulls, which used to run

exchange through website and deals in crypto currency. At that time, ASI Ram

Krishan also told the complainant that he is joining new people in the company

and provide a ID to them. He assured the complainant that there will a very good

return for the investment in the company. Due to the influence of ASI Ram

Krishan, the complainant and Akshay Kumar son of Dharampal agreed to invest

Rs.7000/- ($ 100) in ID No. MGC 219773 and Rs.11,20,000/- ($ 16000) in ID

No. MGC 419288. Paramjit Kaur wife of ASI Ram Krishan also joined as third

party with Akshay Kumar. Some amount was paid in the bank account provided

by ASI Ram Krishan whereas the remaining amount was paid to him in cash.

Thereafter, the complainant obtained three more IDs from ASI Ram Krishan

bearing nos. MGC 259317 dated 02.01.2019, MGC 622919 and MGC 780304

dated 05.01.2019, in lieu of which, amount of Rs.3,15,000/- was paid to ASI Ram

Krishan. After some time, crypto currency Bitcoin was being credited in these

accounts and third share of the amount was being credited in the account of

Paramjit Kaur. However, after some months, the exchange stopped working and

the accounts could not be opened on the website. In this regard, the complainant

asked ASI Ram Krishan, who replied that Shama Shubham and his wife Madhu

Kohli are owners of the company. On asking, Shama Shubham told the

complainant that the exchange is being upgraded and after completion of this

work, the complainant will able to access his account. However, the exchange did

not work and the Bitcoin were also not available in the accounts. On this, the

complainant built pressure upon ASI Ram Krishan and Shama Shubham, who

promised to return the money, but they did not do so. In this way, the aforesaid

 2 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 01-06-2023 17:15:08 ::: Neutral Citation No:=

CRM-M-727-2023 (O&M) -3-

persons have played fraud with the complainant party and misappropriated total

amount of Rs.10,58,666/-. Learned counsel contends that no amount was transferred in the

account of the petitioners and there is no proof of any transaction. It is a case of

false implication. A complaint was filed by petitioner Ram Kishan to the SSP

Pathankot on 03.08.2022 that the complainant has taken money from him. Status report by way of affidavit of Mandeep Singh, PPS, Assistant

Commissioner of Police, Ludhiana dated 21.02.2023 has been filed by learned

State counsel and opposes the bail on the ground that there is one more FIR

registered against the petitioner Ram Kishan, who is working as ASI in the

Punjab Police and is inducing people to invest in the Crypto Currency through the

company-Cryptobulls. He has also produced the photographs showing that he is

doing marketing of the said Crypto Currency alluring people to invest in Crypto

Currencies through companies like Gulf Coin etc. The other FIR under Section

420 is registered against the petitioner. Custodial interrogation of the petitioner is

required. Heard the learned State counsel and perused the file.

 Hon'ble The Supreme Court in 'Jai Parkash Singh vs. State of

Bihar ' reported as (2012) 4 SCC 379 has held as under: 8. In view of the above, it is mandatory on the part of the court
 to ensure the compliance of the pre-requisite conditions for
 grant of anticipatory bail including the nature and gravity of
 the accusation. xxx xxx xxx 13. There is no substantial difference between Sections 438 and 439 Cr.P.C. so far as appreciation of the case as to
 whether or not a bail is to be granted, is concerned. However,
 neither anticipatory bail nor regular bail can be granted as a
 matter of rule. The anticipatory bail being an extraordinary
 privilege should be granted only in exceptional cases. The
 judicial discretion conferred upon the court has to be properly
 exercised after proper application of mind to decide whether it
 is a fit case for grant of anticipatory bail. xxx xxx xxx 21. In the facts and circumstances of this case, we are of the
 considered opinion that it was not a fit case for grant of
 anticipatory bail. The High Court ought to have exercised its
 extraordinary jurisdiction following the parameters laid down
 by this Court in above referred to judicial pronouncements,
 considering the nature and gravity of the offence and as the
 FIR had been lodged spontaneously, its veracity is reliable.
 The High Court has very lightly brushed aside the fact that
 FIR had been lodged spontaneously and further did not record
 any reason as how the pre-requisite conditions incorporated
 in the statutory provision itself stood fulfilled. Nor did the
 court consider as to whether custodial interrogation was
 required." The allegations in the present case are extremely serious that have

been made against Ram Kishan, who while working as ASI in the police

department along with his wife namely Paramjit Kaur, are alleged to be doing the

work for an international company 'Crypto Bulls' who runs its own exchange

through website and deals with crypto currency (Gulf Coin Gold) and have been

luring innocent people to join the scheme and they are issued special ID after

 4 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 01-06-2023 17:15:08 ::: Neutral Citation No:=

CRM-M-727-2023 (O&M) -5-

opening their accounts through the said website. On the allurement of petitioners,

the complainant invested Rs.11.20 lakh in ID No.MGC-419288 and Rs.7,000/- in

ID No.MGC-219773. However, the exchange was closed and the accounts could

not be found while searching the website. The aforesaid petitioners have allegedly

in connivance with each other committed fraud through cyber crime and cheated

the innocent people. Keeping in view the facts and circumstances of the case, the

judgment referred to hereinabove, antecedents, the manner of commission of

crime, gravity of offence, the modus operandi of the petitioner still to be

ascertained, his custodial interrogation being required as investigation is going

on, this Court is thus not inclined to grant the concession of anticipatory bail to

the petitioner(s). Therefore the present petitions stand dismissed. Needless to say that observations made hereinabove are meant only

for the purpose of deciding the present petitions and in no manner be construed as

an expression of opinion on the merits of the case.