IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH, SHIMLA

 Cr. MP (M) No. 1747 of 2025

 . Reserved on: 22.08.2025

 Date of Decision: 30.08.2025. Hon'ble Mr Justice Rakesh Kainthla, Judge. Whether approved for reporting?1 No
 For the Petitioner : Mr. Pranshul Sharma, Advocate.
 For the Respondent : Mr. Jitender Sharma, Additional

 Advocate General. Rakesh Kainthla, Judge

 The petitioner has filed the present petition for

 seeking regular bail in FIR No. 38 of 2024, dated 19.04.2024, for

 the commission of an offence punishable under Section 20 of the

 Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (hereinafter

 referred to as "ND&PS") registered at Police Station Darlaghat,

 District Solan (HP). 2. It has been asserted that the petitioner is innocent

 and that he was falsely implicated. The petitioner was arrested 1 Whether reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the judgment? Yes. in violation of the mandatory provisions of law. The grounds of

 arrest were not conveyed to him and his family members, and

 . there is a violation of Section 50 of Cr.P.C., as well as Article

 22(1) of the Constitution of India. The petitioner is innocent, and

 he was falsely implicated. The petitioner is the only earning

 member of the family. He will abide by all the terms and

 conditions which the Court may impose. The prosecution has

 examined three witnesses out of eighteen witnesses cited by it. No fruitful purpose would be served by detaining the petitioner

 in custody. Therefore, it was prayed that the present petition be

 allowed and the petitioner be released on bail. 3. The petition is opposed by filing a status report

 asserting that the police party was on patrolling duty on

 19.04.2024. They received a secret information at 02.40 PM that

 Balbir Singh (petitioner) was transporting charas in his vehicle

 bearing registration No. HP 24C-3982 and a huge quantity of

 charas could be recovered from the search of his vehicle. The

 information was reduced into writing and was sent to the Sub- Divisional Police Officer (SDPO), Darlaghat. The police

 associated Pradhan, Gram Panchayat, Sanyadi as an

 independent witness and set up a naka. The vehicle bearing ::: Downloaded on - 30/08/2025 21:22:51 :::CIS 3 registration No. HP 24C-3982 arrived on the spot at 03.50 PM. The driver revealed his name as Balbir Singh alias Ballu. The

 . police searched the vehicle and recovered 1.477 kgs of charas. The police arrested the petitioner and seized the charas. The

 charas was sent to the State Forensic Science Laboratory (SFSL),

 Junga, and as per the result of analysis, it was confirmed to be an

 extract of cannabis (charas). The police filed the charge sheet

 before the learned Trial Court on 17.06.2024, and the matter is

 now listed for recording statements of prosecution witnesses on

 05.09.2025. Hence, the status report. 4. I have heard Mr. Pranshul Sharma, learned counsel

 for the petitioner and Mr. Jitender Sharma, learned Additional

 Advocate General for the respondent/State. 5. Mr. Pranshul Sharma, learned counsel for the

 petitioner, submitted that the petitioner is innocent and that he

 was falsely implicated. The grounds of arrest were not conveyed

 to the petitioner and his family members, which is a violation of

 the mandatory provisions of law. There is a delay in the progress

 of the trial, and the petitioner's right to a speedy trial is being

 violated. Hence, he prayed that the present petition be allowed ::: Downloaded on - 30/08/2025 21:22:51 :::CIS 4 and the petitioner be released on bail. He relied upon Vihaan

 Kumar vs. State of Haryana & Anr., 2025 INSC 162 and Vinod

 . Kumar vs. State of Himachal Pradesh in Cr.MP(M) No. 1562 of 2025

 dated 05.08.2025, in support of his submission. 6. Mr. Jitender Sharma, learned Additional Advocate

 General for the respondent/State, submitted that the petitioner

 was found in possession of a commercial quantity of charas, and

 the rigours of Section 37 of the NDPS Act apply to the present

 case. The petitioner is not entitled to bail without satisfying the

 twin conditions laid down in Section 37 of the NDPS Act. The

 grounds of arrest were conveyed to the petitioner. Therefore, he

 prayed that the present petition be dismissed. 7. I have given considerable thought to the submissions

 made at the bar and have gone through the records carefully. 8. The parameters for granting bail were considered by

 the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Ajwar v. Waseem (2024) 10 SCC

 768: 2024 SCC OnLine SC 974, wherein it was observed at page

 783: - 9. This position was reiterated in Ramratan v. State of

 M.P. , 2024 SCC OnLine SC 3068, wherein it was observed as

 under:- (Emphasis supplied) 10. A similar view was taken in Shabeen Ahmed versus

 State of U.P. , 2025 SCC Online SC 479. 11. The present petition has to be decided as per the

 parameters laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court. 12. A perusal of the status report shows that the

 petitioner was driving the vehicle bearing registration No. ::: Downloaded on - 30/08/2025 21:22:51 :::CIS 8 HP24C-3982 from which 1.477 kgs of charas was recovered. Therefore, prima facie, the petitioner was found in possession of

 . a commercial quantity of charas and the rigours of Section 37 of

 the ND& PS Act apply to the present case. Section 37 of the NDPS

 Act provides that in an offence involving a commercial quantity,

 the Court should be satisfied that the accused is not guilty of the

 commission of an offence and is not likely to commit any

 offence while on bail. Section 37 of the NDPS Act reads as under: . 13. This Section was interpreted by the Hon'ble Supreme

 Court in Union of India Versus Niyazuddin & Another (2018) 13 SCC

 738, and it was held that in the absence of the satisfaction that

 the accused is not guilty of an offence and he is not likely to

 commit an offence while on bail, he cannot be released. It was

 observed: r
 "7. Section 37 of the NDPS Act contains special provisions

 with regard to the grant of bail in respect of certain
 offences enumerated under the said Section. They
 are : 8. The accusation in the present case is with regard to the
 fourth factor, namely, commercial quantity. Be that

 as it may, once the Public Prosecutor opposes the
 application for bail to a person accused of the
 enumerated offences under Section 37 of the NDPS
 Act, in case the court proposes to grant bail to such a
 person, two conditions are to be mandatorily
 satisfied in addition to the normal requirements
 under the provisions of the Cr.P.C . or any other
 enactment. 14. This position was reiterated in State of Kerala Versus

 Rajesh, AIR 2020 SC 721, wherein it was held: psychotropic substances into this
 country and illegal trafficking in such
 drugs and substances have led to drug

 addiction among a sizeable section of
 the public, particularly the adolescents
 and students of both sexes and the
 menace has assumed serious and

 alarming proportions in the recent
 years. Therefore, in order to effectively
 control and eradicate this proliferating
 and booming devastating menace,
 r causing deleterious effects and a deadly

 impact on society as a whole,
 Parliament, in its wisdom, has made
 effective provisions by introducing Act
 81 of 1985 specifying mandatory

 minimum imprisonment and fine. 8. To check the menace of dangerous drugs flooding
 the market, Parliament has provided that the

 person accused of offences under the NDPS Act should not be released on bail during trial

 unless the mandatory conditions provided in Section 37 , namely, (i) there are reasonable grounds for
 believing that the accused is not guilty
 of such offence; and (ii) that he is not likely to commit any
 offence while on bail are satisfied. The
 High Court has not given any justifiable
 reason for not abiding by the aforesaid
 mandate while ordering the release of
 the respondent accused on bail. Instead
 of attempting to take a holistic view of
 the harmful socio-economic ::: Downloaded on - 30/08/2025 21:22:51 :::CIS 12 consequences and health hazards
 which would accompany trafficking
 illegally in dangerous drugs, the court
 should implement the law in the spirit

 . with which Parliament, after due
 deliberation, has amended." 20. The scheme of Section 37 reveals that the exercise of

 power to grant bail is not only subject to the
 limitations contained under Section 439 of the CrPC
 but is also subject to the limitation placed by Section
 37 , which commences with the non-obstante clause. The operative part of the said section is in the
 negative form prescribing the enlargement of bail to
 any person accused of the commission of an offence
 under the Act unless twin conditions are satisfied. The first condition is that the prosecution must be

 given an opportunity to oppose the application, and
 the second is that the Court must be satisfied that
 there are reasonable grounds for believing that he is
 not guilty of such an offence. If either of these two

 conditions is not satisfied, the ban for granting bail
 operates. 21. The expression "reasonable grounds" means
 something more than prima facie grounds. It

 contemplates substantial probable causes for
 believing that the accused is not guilty of the alleged
 offence. The reasonable belief contemplated in the

 provision requires the existence of such facts and
 circumstances as are sufficient in themselves to
 justify satisfaction that the accused is not guilty of
 the alleged offence. In the case on hand, the High
 Court seems to have completely overlooked the
 underlying object of Section 37 that, in addition to
 the limitations provided under the CrPC , or any
 other law for the time being in force, regulating the
 grant of bail, its liberal approach in the matter of
 bail under the NDPS Act is indeed uncalled for." 15. A similar view was taken in Union of India v. Mohd . Nawaz Khan, (2021) 10 SCC 100: (2021) 3 SCC (Cri) 721: 2021 SCC

 . OnLine SC 1237, wherein it was observed at page 110: 22. The standard prescribed for the grant of bail is
 "reasonable ground to believe" that the person

 is not guilty of the offence. Interpreting the standard
 of "reasonable grounds to believe", a two-judge
 Bench of this Court in Shiv Shanker Kesari [Union of

 India v. Shiv Shanker Kesari , (2007) 7 SCC 798: (2007)
 3 SCC (Cri) 505], held that: (SCC pp. 801-02, paras 7-

 8 & 10-11)
 "7. The expression used in Section 37(1)(b)(ii) is

 "reasonable grounds". The expression means
 something more than prima facie grounds. It
 connotes substantial probable causes for
 believing that the accused is not guilty of the
 offence charged, and this reasonable belief,
 contemplated in turn, points to the existence of
 such facts and circumstances as are sufficient in
 themselves to justify the recording of satisfaction
 that the accused is not guilty of the offence
 charged. 8. The word "reasonable" has in law the prima
 facie meaning of reasonable in regard to those
 circumstances of which the actor, called on to
 act reasonably, knows or ought to know. It is

 . difficult to give an exact definition of the word
 "reasonable". '7. ... Stroud's Judicial Dictionary, 4th Edn., p. 2258 states that it would be unreasonable to
 expect an exact definition of the word
 "reasonable". Reason varies in its conclusions
 according to the idiosyncrasy of the

 individual, and the times and circumstances in
 which he thinks. The reasoning which built up
 the old scholastic logic sounds now like the
 jingling of a child's toy.'

 [See MCD v. Jagan Nath Ashok

 Kumar [MCD v. Jagan Nath Ashok Kumar,
 (1987) 4 SCC 497], SCC p. 504, para 7
 and Gujarat Water Supply & Sewerage

 Board v. Unique Erectors (Gujarat) (P)
 Ltd. [Gujarat Water Supply & Sewerage
 Board v. Unique Erectors (Gujarat) (P) Ltd.,

 (1989) 1 SCC 532]]
 *** 10. The word "reasonable" signifies "in
 accordance with reason". In the ultimate

 analysis, it is a question of fact whether a
 particular act is reasonable or not, depends on
 the circumstances in a given situation. (See Municipal Corpn. of Greater
 Mumbai v. Kamla Mills Ltd. [Municipal Corpn.
 of Greater Mumbai v. Kamla Mills Ltd. (2003) 6
 SCC 315] 11. The court, while considering the
 application for bail with reference to Section 37 of the Act, is not called upon to record a
 finding of not guilty. It is for the limited ::: Downloaded on - 30/08/2025 21:22:51 :::CIS 15 purpose, essentially confined to the question
 of releasing the accused on bail, that the court
 is called upon to see if there are reasonable
 grounds for believing that the accused is not

 . guilty and records its satisfaction about the
 existence of such grounds. But the court has
 not to consider the matter as if it is

 pronouncing a judgment of acquittal and
 recording a finding of not guilty." (emphasis supplied) 23. Based on the above precedent, the test which the

 High Court and this Court are required to apply
 while granting bail is whether there are reasonable
 grounds to believe that the accused

 has not committed an offence and whether he is
 likely to commit any offence while on bail. Given the

 seriousness of offences punishable under the NDPS
 Act and in order to curb the menace of drug
 trafficking in the country, stringent parameters for

 the grant of bail under the NDPS Act have been
 prescribed." 16. This position was reiterated in Narcotics Control

 Bureau v. Mohit Aggarwal , 2022 SCC OnLine SC 891, wherein it was

 observed: application is opposed, then the Court must be satisfied
 that there are reasonable grounds for believing that the
 person accused is not guilty of such an offence. Additionally, the Court must be satisfied that the accused
 person is unlikely to commit any offence while on bail. 12. The expression "reasonable grounds" has come up for
 discussion in several rulings of this Court. In " Collector of

 Customs, New Delhi v. Ahmadalieva Nodira " (2004) 3 SCC
 549, a decision rendered by a Three Judges Bench of this
 Court, it has been held thus: -- 13. The expression "reasonable ground" came up for
 discussion in " State of Kerala v. Rajesh " (2020) 12 SCC 122,
 and this Court has observed as below: 14. To sum up, the expression "reasonable grounds" used

 in clause (b) of Sub-Section (1) of Section 37 would mean
 credible, plausible and grounds for the Court to believe
 that the accused person is not guilty of the alleged
 offence. For arriving at any such conclusion, such facts

 and circumstances must exist in a case that can persuade
 the Court to believe that the accused person would not
 have committed such an offence. Dovetailed with the

 aforesaid satisfaction is an additional consideration that
 the accused person is unlikely to commit any offence

 while on bail. 15. We may clarify that at the stage of examining an

 application for bail in the context of Section 37 of the Act,
 the Court is not required to record a finding that the
 accused person is not guilty. The Court is also not
 expected to weigh the evidence for arriving at a finding as
 to whether the accused has committed an offence under
 the NDPS Act or not. The entire exercise that the Court is
 expected to undertake at this stage is for the limited
 purpose of releasing him on bail. Thus, the focus is on the
 availability of reasonable grounds for believing that the
 accused is not guilty of the offences that he has been
 charged with and that he is unlikely to commit an offence ::: Downloaded on - 30/08/2025 21:22:51 :::CIS 18 under the Act while on bail." e is unlikely to commit an
 offence under the Act while on bail." . 17. In the present case, the petitioner was prima facie

 found in possession of 1.477 kgs of charas. There is nothing to

 indicate that the petitioner is not likely to commit a similar

 offence in the event of his release on bail. Hence, the petitioner

 has failed to satisfy the twin conditions laid down under Section

 37 of the NDPS Act, and he is not entitled to bail. 18. It was submitted that the grounds of arrest were not

 conveyed to the petitioner. This submission is not acceptable. A

 copy of the arrest information mentions that the petitioner was

 arrested for the commission of an offence punishable under Section 20 of the NDPS Act. He was found in possession of 1.477

 Kgs of charas; therefore, he was told about the offence

 committed by him ( Section 20 of the NDPS Act) for possessing

 1.477 Kgs of charas and the reason for arrest (offence is non- bailable). Hence, the submission that the grounds of arrest were

 not communicated to the petitioner is not acceptable, and the

 judgment cited on behalf of the petitioner in Vihaan Kumar

 (supra) does not apply to the present case. 19. It was submitted that there is a delay in the progress

 of the trial, and the petitioner is entitled to bail because of the

 . violation of the right to a speedy trial. A perusal of the record

 shows that the learned counsel for the petitioner had sought

 time for consideration of the charge on 09.09.2024 and

 16.09.2024. The charges were framed on 05.10.2024, statements

 of three witnesses have been recorded, and the matter is now

 listed for recording the statements of prosecution witnesses on

 05.09.2025 and 06.09.2025. The fact that the statements of three

 witnesses have been recorded within a period of less than one

 year, and the matter is listed in September on two consecutive

 dates, shows the concern of the learned Trial Court to conclude

 the trial expeditiously. Hence, the plea raised on behalf of the

 petitioner that his right to a speedy trial is being violated is not

 acceptable. 20. No other point was urged. 21. In view of the above, the present petition fails and

 the same is dismissed. 22. The observations made hereinbefore shall remain

 confined to the disposal of the present petition and will have no

 . bearing, whatsoever, on the merits of the case. 23. The present petition stands disposed of, and so are

 the pending miscellaneous applications, if any.