This suit/petition filed by the plaintiff/petitioner under Section 34 of Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (herein

 after referred the same as said Act) for setting aside the 3 AS 24/2010 award passed by the defendant No.2/respondent No.2 dated

09-12-2009 in Arbitration case No.CM/C-0070/2009. 2. In the petition, it is stated that on 03-07-2009 the

plaintiff filed claim petition before defendant No.2 claiming a

sum of Rs.4,80,854/- with costs and interest or restore her

securities along with all accrues. 3. It is stated that on 01-09-2008 the plaintiff entered as

a trading member with defendant No.1 under client ID

No.00064149 and opened a Dmat Account No.12044500.

The plaintiff is an uneducated, signed on blank client

registration form at the time of registration and opening of

dmat account. She had no intention to trade and wanted to

retain the securities in the Dmat form. She had refused to

sign any kind of power of attorney or letter of authority in

favour of the defendant No.1. Taking the advantage of

illiteracy of the plaintiff, the defendant No.1 has obtained

her signatures. The plaintiff deposited securities like

Parshwanath Developers-500 shares, NIIT Technology-400

shares on 05-09-2008, Blue Bird-500 shares, House of Pearl - 200 shares, Magnum Venture - 2000 shares, Mangalam

Cement - 200 shares, Triveni Engineering - 500 shares, 4 AS 24/2010 Tech Mahindra - 50 shares, Sterlite Industries - 50 shares

on 15-09-2008, Deccan Aviation - 600 shares, Praj

Industries - 433 shares and Unitech Ltd., - 100 shares on

01-10-2008 in her Dmat Account. 4. It is stated that the plaintiff received bunch of invoices

on account statement which reflected the illegal purchase

and sale of equity shares by the defendant No.1 without her

consent. Subsequently she approached the branch office of

the defendant No.1 at Bangalore with letter that alleged

transactions had taken place without her

permission/consent. But, the defendant No.1 did not reply

the same. The defendant No.1 had used the code of the

plaintiff unauthorizedly while trading. The plaintiff informed

the same to the branch office of the defendant No.1. But

they refused the said letter and on next working days they

sold the securities in the account without her instructions.

She also gave complaint to the Chairman of SEBI on 26-11-

2008 in order to initiated appropriate action against the

defendant No.1. The defendant No.1 in all transacted to the

tune of Rs.46,32,732=21. During time of said transaction

the defendant No.1 used the code of the plaintiff

unauthorizedly and incurred loss to the tune of 5 AS 24/2010 Rs.1,13,006=06 to her. The plaintiff has deposited

securities in her account which were sold by the defendant

No.1 without her permission. Hence, she sought for

restoration of her securities. 5. It is stated that at no point of time the plaintiff gave

instructions to the defendant No.1 to purchase or sell the

shares in her name. At the time of signing the blank forms

she had never given any e-mail I.D. to the defendant No.1.

But, the defendant No.1 fraudulently created an e-mail of

the plaintiff in their office at Bangalore and used the same

for the purpose of trading. The plaintiff has filed claim

petition before the defendant No.2 seeking direction to the

defendant No.1 to pay a sum of Rs.4,80,854/- with costs

and interest or restore her securities along with accrues. 6. It is stated that the defendant No.1 filed written

statement/objections to the claim petition before the

Arbitrator with counter claim. The plaintiff filed counter to

the written statement, then the defendant No.1 has filed

sub-rejoinder. Based on the contentions and submissions

raised by both parties, the defendant No.2 has rejected the

claim of the plaintiff. But, no issues were framed and 6 AS 24/2010 therefore no evidence was led in the claim petition by the

both parties. Aggrieved by the award passed by the

defendant No.2 the plaintiff has preferred the present

application on the following amongst other grounds. 1. The impugned award is liable to be set aside as
 not being valid under Indian law, that being the law
 to which the parties have subjected it. 2. The Learned Arbitrator came to a hasty
 conclusion without any reasoning and dismissed
 the claim of the Appellant. 3. The Learned Arbitrator erred in coming to a
 conclusion that a Dmat form is opened only for the
 purpose of trading. Thereby, the Learned
 Arbitrator brushed aside the contention of the
 Appellant that she opened the Dmat account for
 converting his shares in to electronic mode which
 she was holding physically and not for the purpose
 of trading. 4. The Learned Arbitrator failed to notice the
 submissions made by the Appellant that "it is very
 much necessary to obtain the log report for having
 opened the appellant's e-mail id. The Log report
 gives the details of the creation of the e-mail id,
 such as, place, name of the creator, date, time and
 through which computer this was done". This
 clearly shows the partiality of the arbitrator in
 passing the award without giving sufficient
 opportunity to the appellant to prove the same.
 The finding of the Learned Arbitrator is perverse
 and illegal. 5. The Learned Arbitrator in the reasoning portion
 of the award has held the contentions raised by the
 Appellant that she did not know English and hence
 unaware of the contents of the document and that
 he signed in blank forms are all not acceptable. 6. It is pertinent to note here that even if the
 appellant has signed the blank form it was out of
 the trust she signed and was never with the 7 AS 24/2010 intention of trading. But the First respondent
taking undue advantage of the same played fraud
on the Appellant by transacting in the said Dmat
Account without the permission of the Appellant
and a blind eye has been turned to this by the
second respondent. 7. The Arbitration proceedings were initiated by
the Appellant on 03-07-2009 and the final award
was passed on 9-12-2009. Throughout the entire
award there is no reference to the issues arising
out of the dispute between the parties and to the
documents or exhibits. This clearly shows that the
arbitrator has failed to follow the proper procedure
of framing the issues and giving the opportunity to
the appellant to prove their case by way of
evidence. It is clearly visible to what extent the
second respondent was in a hurry to pass the
award in favour of the first respondent. The
respondent No.2 passed the award in a hurry after
he received the intimation from the respondent
No.1 regarding the complaint filed by the Appellant
before the Cops of Detectives for investigating the
IP address and log report for creating an email id. 8. The Appellant never in her life has operated any
computer and did not have any email id in her
name. The appellant further while signing the
forms did not give any email id. The respondent
No.1 fraudulently has created an email id in the
name of appellant. From the beginning, the
Appellant took a contention that she never
operated the email id as the password to open the
account was not furnished to her by the First
respondent. Moreover, the Learned Arbitrator
failed to appreciate the fact that in the client
registration form furnished by the 1st respondent
to the appellant the email column was blank
whereas in the client registration form furnished by
the respondent No.1 during the course of
arbitration the email id column shows [email protected] . Moreover different
handwritings have been used in the said
registration form. The appellant even suspected
that those registration forms furnished by the
respondent No.1 during arbitration were not the
one which were signed by this appellant at the time
of opening the dmat account. The said fraudulent 8 AS 24/2010 act of the First respondent is also clear from the
courier received by the appellant in the month of
the September 2008 from Mumbai M/s Fortune
Equity broking India Pvt. Ltd., through which she
received client registration kit in which all the
columns were filled except the email id column. 9. The Learned Arbitrator failed to appreciate that
the respondent No.1 took a contention that the
appellant came to Mumbai and signed the Client
registration form. The date of the agreement is 1st
September 2008, there is no dispute as regards
this date. The date of receipt of the agreement by
the appellant as contended by the respondent No.1
from Mumbai is 10th August 2008. The date of
receipt of the forms is earlier to the date of the
registration which is not at all possible. The
respondent No.2 failed to take note of this
contradiction which is essential in arriving at the
award. 10. To establish that it was a concocted story the
appellant had produced the appropriate form which
contains the seal of the respondent No.1 dated 10-
08-2008 stating to have received the application
form much before the date of the agreement. The
appellant had vehemently stated that at no point of
time she visited Mumbai and that the original
application form signed was not duly filled with the
email id. In this regard the appellant had sought
for the particulars of the opening of the email id
and email transmission log report. The first
respondent taking undue advantage of lack and
knowledge in computer and its operation by the
appellant filled the consent letter of the electronic
contract note as well as created and email id.,
though these contentions were raised by the
appellant time and again before the arbitration, the
Learned Arbitrator erred in holding that the claim
of the appellant is not maintainable before him. 11. The Second respondent in the entire award
only highlighted that the appellant being
uneducated or illiterate is not a ground for stating
that the transaction have taken place without her
consent. Apart from the above reason, the second
respondent has not given any reasoning or finding
in the entire award as to why the claim of the 9 AS 24/2010 appellant is dismissed indicating a clear bias as
understood in law. 12. The Learned Arbitrator ought to have examined
both the parties with respect to the dispute
involved. The Learned Arbitrator has proceeded to
pass award based on the mere contentions of the
first respondent. There is a clear failure on the
part of the Second respondent to apply the law
which is totally untenable in law. In view of the
failure of the second respondent either in framing
the issues or in conducting evidence the fining of
the second respondent clearly discloses a species
of fraud. The award passed by the second
respondent thus exceeds the scope of the
submission to arbitration in a much as he has
virtually decided that the Appellant's allegation of
unauthorized trading in her account is not
acceptable as the sale of shares held in the dmat
account was carried out through BSE and hence the
complaint is not a subject matter of the arbitration. 13. The second respondent while deciding whether
an illegal transaction has taken place has brushed
aside the contentions or the appellant. The
appellant had taken a contention that the
respondent has misled the forum by giving wrong
information. 14. The respondent No.1 has repeatedly taken a
contention that the email id was given by the
appellant at the time of signing the form. However, the Log report from the police shows that
the email id was created in the office at Bangalore
office of the first respondent on a much later date
along with name and accurate time. 15. Time and again the respondent No.1 has
stated that the contract notes were sent
electronically to the email id of the appellant but
the interesting fact remains that the said email id
has been operated from the LP.No.122.166.9.49
the address is of the Bangalore branch office of
first respondent. (Assuming for the purposes of
argument but not admitting that the email id was
created by the appellant but the documents show
that the email id has been operated from the
Bangalore address of the respondent No.1). The 10 AS 24/2010 appellant had registered an FIR under Sec.420 of
 the Indian Penal Code bearing Crime No.837/2009
 as against the first respondent's representatives.
 In this regard the police have obtained the
 termination history with respect to the place of
 address of the operation of the email id pertaining
 to the said IP No. Copies of the termination history
 and FIR are produced herewith and marked as
 ANNEXURE-E and ANNEXURE-F respectively. 16. The Learned Arbitrator has mechanically
 passed the award without application of mind by
 giving a finding that both the cases are similar in
 nature. 17. The first respondent has played fraud and a
 blind eye has been turned to this by the second
 respondent. In the award passed by the second
 respondent there is open partiality towards the first
 respondent. On the above mentioned grounds the plaintiff prayed

for set aside the award passed by the Arbitrator/the

defendant No.2. 7. The defendant No.1 has filed objections/written

statement to the present petition and stated as follows :- 8. It is denied the grounds contended by the plaintiff in

the present petition. It is stated that the plaintiff

approached the defendant No.1 and expressed her desire to

effect transaction in shares and securities. After satisfied

the instruction given by the defendant No.1, the plaintiff had

executed "Know Your Client Form" as well as Member-Client

Agreement and "Combined Risk Disclosure Documents" and

also other voluntary documents, including consent for

receiving digital contract notes. It is denied that the plaintiff

signed blank forms as provided by the defendant No.1.

Details to be provided to the plaintiff in filling the said

agreement as per the normal custom including the email ID.

Thereafter, the petitioner signed in the client registration

form and other documents. It is stated that the defendant 12 AS 24/2010 No.1 created a client ID code of the plaintiff and also

account number in her name. After creation of ID code and

opening an account in the name of petitioner, the defendant

No.1 forwarded to the petitioner as a "welcome letter" along

with a set of completed documents. No point of time the

plaintiff pointed out any discrepancy in the details filled in

the said documents. She opened a depository account in

her name after following due process. Thereafter, the

transaction taken place. The defendant No.1 forwarded

digital contract notes to the plaintiff and the same has been

delivered to the email ID belongs to her. They also

forwarded trade summary to the petitioner through her

mobile. It is denied that the defendant No.1 has obtained

signatures of the plaintiff in the blank documents, created

ID email belongs to her in fraudulent manner and made a

transaction of transfer and shares. It is stated that the

petitioner has not made out case of setting aside the

impugned order passed by the defendant No.2. On the

above said grounds the defendant No.1 prayed for dismissal

of the case of the plaintiff with exemplary costs. 9. In this arbitration suit both parties have not adduced

any evidence. 10. Heard the arguments by both side. 11. The following points arises for my consideration :- 12. My answer to the above points are as follows:- connected, therefore for the purpose of avoiding repeated

discussions, I taken up these two points together for

consideration. 14. It is the contention of the defendant No.1 that this Court

has no territorial jurisdiction to entertain this case. The

agreement between the plaintiff and the defendant No.1 was 14 AS 24/2010 executed at Mumbai, the seat of arbitration at Chennai, hence

this Court has no jurisdiction to entertain the case. Considering

the same I am of the opinion that the plaintiff and the

defendant No.1 branch office is situated in Bangalore, it is

within the jurisdiction of this Court. Since the provisions of old

law and the ordinance do not prescribe the territorial

jurisdiction of the Court empower to decide the applications

and appeal. As per CPC a Court will exercise territorial

jurisdiction over a matter if the property in dispute is situated

within its jurisdiction, or the defendant resides within its

jurisdiction, or if the contract has been executed or performed

within its jurisdiction, or if the cause of action arose within its

jurisdiction. As stated above, in the case on hand the plaintiff

and defendant No.1 branch office is situated in Bangalore city

and cause of action arose in Bangalore city and it is within the

jurisdiction of this Court. It is not the case of the defendant

No.1 that in the agreement the parties have mentioned about

jurisdiction of the Court regarding settlement of dispute.

Therefore, I come to the conclusion that this Court has

territorial jurisdiction to entertain the present case. 15 AS 24/2010 15. It is the second contention of the defendant No.1 that the

present petition filed by the plaintiff is barred by limitation. I

have perused the above said contention of the defendant No.1.

As per Section 34(3) of the said Act an application for setting

aside the arbitration award may not be made after 3 months

have elapsed from the date on which the party making that

application had received the arbitral award. The plaintiff

contended that she received the award on 16-01-2010,

thereafter she filed this petition and it is within the period of

limitation. I am of the opinion that the present case the

defendant No.2 passed an award on 09-12-2009, as per the

plaintiff award was communicated to her on 16-01-2010 and

thereafter she filed the present suit on 15-03-2010. Hence, I

come to the conclusion that this petition filed by the petitioner

is within 3 months from the date of receipt of arbitral award as

per Section 34(3) of the said Act. 16. As per Section 34 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act,

1996 an unsuccessful party can challenge the award passed by

the Arbitrator under the various grounds. The grounds under Section 34 can be categorized under the following general

headings. 1. Violation of Natural Justice 2. Arbitral Award in derogation of Public policy 3. Misconduct of Arbitrator 4. Exceeding jurisdiction 5. Non-Arbitrable issue 6. Illegality - (same as procedural misconduct) 7. Conflict of jurisdiction (unsettled law) 8. Incapacity of party

 In the present case on hand the plaintiff has filed claim

petition before the defendant No.2/learned Arbitrator. Due to

dismissal of his claim petition, as a unsuccessful party the

plaintiff approached this Court and prayed for setting aside the

award passed by the defendant No.2 under the various grounds

as per Section 34 of the said Act. As per proviso of Section 34 (2-A), an award shall not be set aside merely on the ground of

erroneous application of law or by re-appreciation of evidence.

But, unfortunately in the arbitration proceedings no oral

evidence recorded. Therefore the question of considered this

case by way of re-appreciation of evidence will not arise. 17. During the course arguments, learned counsel for the

plaintiff/appellant submitted that the plaintiff had no intention

to trade and wanted to retain the securities in the Dmat form.

She never consented for dealing in respect of shares by the 17 AS 24/2010 defendant No.1. The defendant No.1 has created e-mail ID in

its office belongs to the plaintiff. IP address for creating e-mail

ID has given from the office of the defendant No.1. The

plaintiff was not transferred the share and received any amount

from the defendant No.1. The plaintiff had filed complaint

against the defendant No.1 before the jurisdictional police,

after investigation the charge sheet filed against the defendant

No.1. In spite of the same, the defendant No.2/learned

Arbitrator has not framed issues, recorded the evidence of the

plaintiff, not considered alleged fraud committed by the

defendant No.1, no opportunities given to the plaintiff to

project the alleged fraud committed by the defendant No.1 and

learned Arbitrator has hurriedly dismissed the case of the

plaintiff. He further submitted that the award passed by the

Arbitrator is opposed to the provisions of Section 34 of the said

Act and it is liable to be set aside. 18. In support of his contention the learned counsel for

the plaintiff relied upon the decisions of Hon'ble Courts

reported in (2014) 9 Supreme Court Cases 263 ( Oil and

Natural Gas Corporation Limited vs. Western Geco

International Limited ) and (2003) 5 SCC 705 ( Oil and

Natural Gas Corporation Limited vs. Saw Pipes Ltd. ,). 18 AS 24/2010 19. Learned counsel for the defendant No.1 submitted that,

as per the consent and permission of the plaintiff, the

defendant No.1 has created email ID and made the transaction

of sale and purchase of shares. There is no alleged fraud

committed by the defendant No.1 as alleged by the plaintiff

side. After considering the case of both side, the learned

Arbitrator dismissed the claim petition filed by the plaintiff.

The learned Arbitrator has not committed any irregularities

while passing such order. Hence, the question of set aside the

award is does not arise and this suit is liable to be dismissed. 20. In support of his contention the learned counsel for

the defendant No.1 relied upon the decision of Hon'ble

Court reported in 2010 AIR SCW 232 (M/s Grasim

Industries Ltd., and another vs. Ms Agarwal Steel ) and

2009 AIR SCW 7191 ( Steel authority of India Ltd., vs.

Gupta Brother Steel Tubes Ltd. ,). 21. I have perused the arguments canvassed by both side

with case on hand. I have perused the award passed by the

defendant No.2 dated 09-12-2009. In his award the defendant

No.2/learned Arbitator has not accepted the contention of the 19 AS 24/2010 plaintiff that she does not know English and hence she signed

all the documents on trust. It was held in the award that the

plaintiff transferred her shares in to the new Dmat account

opened with the defendant No.1, the welcome letter sent to the

plaintiff indicated the emal ID and she should have objected to

it at that time itself. It is further held that the plaintiff has not

explained the transfer of funds to her account through Axis

bank when asked by the investor grievance cell. The

respondent categorically denies the appellants allegations of

unauthorized trading and states that all the contract notes have

been sent to the email id and also physically. The sale of

shares held in the Dmat account was carried out through BSE

and hence this complaint is not a subject matter for this

arbitration and the applicant can take up this matter at the

appropriate forum. Hence, it is held that the appellant's

allegation of unauthorized trading in her account is not

acceptable. From the above said reasons the defendant No.2

has dismissed the claim petition filed by the plaintiff. 22. I have carefully perused the award passed by the

defendant No.2. From going through the same, it is clear that

there is no issues framed in the arbitration proceedings as per 20 AS 24/2010 the allegation made by the parties and no opportunity offered

to them to prove their case with oral and documentary

evidence. No evidence recorded in the arbitration proceedings.

Without oral and documentary evidence the defendant No.2

considered the claim petition and dismissed. 23. In the claim petition before the Arbitrator the plaintiff

specifically contended that she is illiterate, she had no intention

to trade and wanted to retain the securities in Dmat form,

taking advantage of her illiteracy, the defendant No.1 obtained

her signatures in the blank forms. She further contended that

the defendant No.1 has committed fraud, he has created her

email id in his office, obtained signatures in the blank forms

and made transaction of sale and purchase of shares and

caused loss to her. She further contended that without her

consent the defendant No.1 was sold and purchase of shares in

her name and caused loss to her. 24. I am of the opinion that the defendant No.2 has not

considered the above mentioned serious allegation made by the

plaintiff in the claim petition in respect of fraud committed by

the defendant No.1 while dealing with transaction of shares. 21 AS 24/2010 The defendant No.2 has not framed points for

settlement/issues on the basis of pleadings of the parties and

recording evidence. He has not mentioned in the award that

what is the reason for non-framing of issues, oral and

documentary evidence not recorded in the arbitration

proceedings. I am of the opinion that non-framing of issues

and recording oral evidence by the learned Arbitrator is illegal

and opposed to public policy. He has not followed the

procedure of Section 24 of the said Act. Without framing issues

and considered the claim petition filed by the plaintiff on the

basis of oral and documentary evidence, the defendant No.2

dismissed the case of the plaintiff. Without oral and

documentary evidence he has given findings on the contention

taken by the plaintiff against the defendant No.1. Therefore, I

am of the opinion that it amounts to violation of natural justice

and against the public policy. The defendant No.2 has not

given opportunity to the parties to leading oral evidence and

production of documents in the arbitration proceedings. I am

of the opinion that it will also amounts to misconducted the

proceedings. The defendant No.2 has failed to record the

findings in respect of some of the distinct matters referred to 22 AS 24/2010 him. Hence, I am of the opinion that the award passed by the

defendant No.2 is incomplete. 25. Hon'ble Supreme Court of India by their judgment

reported in AIR 2016 Supreme Court 4675 ( A. Ayyaswamy

vs. A. Paramashivam and others ) held that the contention

taken by the petitioner regarding alleged fraud committed by

the another party can be determined by the Arbitral Tribunal.

As stated above, in the case on hand the plaintiff specifically

taken contention that the defendant No.1 committed fraud

while getting her signatures in the documents, created forged

email id and made transaction in respect of shares. Therefore,

I am of the opinion that the defendant No.2 has to determine

the allegation of fraud against the defendant No.1 as alleged by

the plaintiff. But, he has not given any findings on the alleged

fraud as per the contention taken by the plaintiff. It is well

settled law that non-reasoned award is liable to be set aside.

In the decision reported in AIR 1964 A.P. 348, it was held

that in case of the Arbitrators failure to record finding in

respect of some of the distinct matter referred to the arbitrator,

the award is incomplete and liable to be set aside. In the case

on hand learned Arbitrator did not framed issues and recorded 23 AS 24/2010 evidence in respect of alleged fraud as contended by the

plaintiff and given findings. 26. As discussed above the learned Arbitrator has not

followed the procedure laid down under Section 24 of the

Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996. He has not framed

points for settlement or issues, not taken oral and documentary

evidence placed by the plaintiff side and passed award with

reasons. In the absence of settlement or issues, oral and

documentary evidence, the defendant No.2 simply given

findings that the plaintiff has not proved her case about alleged

fraud and misrepresentation by the defendant No.1. Hence, I

come to the conclusion that the award of the Arbitrator is

illegal, perverse and not sustainable under law. The object of

the arbitration Act and intention of the parties that to approach

the arbitrator for decide the dispute between them. The parties

chosen the Arbitrator to complete remedy for resolving all their

claims. But, in the case on hand even though in the claim

petition the plaintiff made several allegation against the

defendant No.1, the learned Arbitrator did not considered the

same by oral and documentary evidence. Therefore, the award

passed by the Arbitrator is liable to be set aside. The plaintiff 24 AS 24/2010 has made out grounds under Section 34(2) of the Arbitration

and Conciliation Act to set aside the award passed by the

second defendant. I have perused the Hon'ble Court decisions

cited by the defendant No.1 side as stated supra. I am of the

opinion that looking into the facts and circumstances of the

case, Hon'ble Court decisions will not help the case of the

defendant No.1. 27. In its award, the defendant No.2 decided that the sale of

shares held in dmat account was carried out through Bombay

Stock Exchange (BSE) and hence this complaint is not a subject

matter of this arbitration and the applicant can take up this

matter at the appropriate forum. Considering the same I am of

the opinion that the defendant No.2 held that the complaint

given by the plaintiff before him is not jurisdiction for try the

dispute. But, in spite of the same, without jurisdiction the

defendant No.2 given findings on the dispute made in the claim

petition. I am of the opinion that it is violation of natural

justice and exceeding jurisdiction. On this count also the award

passed by the defendant No.2 is liable to be set aside. 25 AS 24/2010 28. It is noticed the contention taken by the plaintiff that

due to fraud committed by the defendant No.1, she and her

husband lodged complaint before Kamakshipalya Police station

against the defendant No.1 and its officials. After investigation

the police have filed charge sheet against them punishable

under Section 420, 114 r/w Section 34 of IPC. To prove the

same the plaintiff has produced certified copy of charge sheet,

application filed by the accused for granting bail and order of

bail application. 29. Looking to the facts and circumstances of the case and

also in order to safeguard the interest of plaintiff, I feel it is just

and proper to remand the matter to the defendant No.2 for

fresh disposal in accordance with law. Therefore, award passed

by the learned Arbitrator is liable to be set side and matter is

remitted back to defendant No.2 for fresh disposal in

accordance with law. Accordingly, I answer points 1 and 2 in

the affirmative. 30. POINT NO. 3:- In view of the findings on point No.1 and

2, I proceed to pass the following order:- The award passed by the learned Arbitrator i.e, defendant
No.2 in the matter of Arbitration No.CM/C-0070/2009 dated
09-12-2009 is set aside. The matter is remanded back to the arbitral tribunal to
dispose off the matter afresh after giving reasonable
opportunity to the parties to lead evidence as provided under Section 24 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 and to
dispose off the matter in accordance with law. No costs. (Dictated to the Judgment Writer, transcribed by her, the
transcript corrected by me, signed and then pronounced by me in
open Court on this the 27th day of June, 2018). RACHENAHALLI Y SHASHIDHARA Digitally signed by RACHENAHALLI Y SHASHIDHARA DN: cn=RACHENAHALLI Y SHASHIDHARA,ou=HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA,o=GOVERNMENT OF KARNATAKA,st=Karnataka,c=IN Date: 2018.06.28 12:27:27 IST (R.Y. SHASHIDHARA),
 XVI Addl. City Civil & Sessions Judge,
 BANGALORE. petitioner/plaintiff under Section 34 of
Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 is
hereby allowed. The award passed by the learned
Arbitrator i.e, defendant No.2 in the matter
of Arbitration No.CM/C-0070/2009 dated 09-
12-2009 is set aside. The matter is remanded back to the
arbitral tribunal to dispose off the matter
afresh after giving reasonable opportunity to
the parties to lead evidence as provided
under Section 24 of the Arbitration and
Conciliation Act, 1996 and to dispose off the
matter in accordance with law. No costs. (Vide separate Judgment)

 (R.Y. SHASHIDHARA),
 XVI Addl. City Civil & Sessions Judge,
 BANGALORE.