These two appeals preferred by the assessee are directed
against the different order passed by the CIT(A) -V & III , Hyderabad and
pertains to the assessment years 2001-02 & 2006-07. Since the issues
involved in these two appeals are common in nature, they are clubbed
together, heard together and disposed off vide this common order for the
sake of convenience. 2. First we will take up the issue involved for the assessment
year 2001-02. The main grievance in this assessment year 2001-02 is
with regard to non granting of the Exemption u/s 11 of the Income Tax Act
1961. Hyderabad Stock Exchange Ltd., Hyd. 3. Brief facts are for the year under consideration is that the
assessing officer has observed that the assessee has incurred expenditure
to the extent of Rs.10,41,99,227/- during the period from 1.4.1996 to
31.3.2001 for providing additional infrastructural facilities to the Member
Brokers. Such infrastructural facilities include development of screen
based training system, terminals, Netscape browsers, computers and other
accessories for participating in the Screen Based Trading System (SBTS).
Besides this, the Member Brokers were insured to the extent of Rs.10
lakhs each through contribution to Stock Brokers' Insurance Policy.
Further, an amount of Rs.82 lakhs were spent for setting up of
Interconnected Stock Exchange India Ltd. (ICSI) for the benefit of its
Members. It is also noted that the assessee has received 100% subsidy
HSE Securities Ltd. which could become the Broker of National Stock
Exchange and Bombay Stock Exchange and the member of the assessee's
stock exchange became sub broker in order to trade at NSE & BSE
through instrumentality of the subsidiary. It is also observed by the
assessing officer that there was substantial increase in the expenditure
incurred by the assessee without any corresponding increase in the
subscription and fees collected from the brokers. According to the
assessing officer, the assessee used the substantial portion of its income
as well as property for the benefit of the prohibited category of persons
referred to in Sec. 13(1) (c ) read with Sec.13(1)(3) of the Act. As such,
exemption u/s 11 was not granted to the assessee. 4. On appeal, the CIT(A) held that the assessee is not entitled for
exemption u/s 11 of the Income Tax Act and the income of the assessee
has to be computed on commercial lines. Against this, the assessee is in
appeal before us. Hyderabad Stock Exchange Ltd., Hyd. 5. The learned authorised representative for the assessee
submitted that the assessee is a company registered as stock exchange. It
was incorporated in the year 1943. The assessee was also granted
registration u/s 12A of the IT Act and has been enjoying exemption u/s 11 for the past several years without interruption till assessment 2000-01.
For the assessment 2001-02 the assessee filed its return declaring income
of Rs.3,54,511/- and claimed the same as exemption u/s 11 of the Act.
The assessing officer denied the exemption claimed u/s 11 as claimed by
the assessee and assessed on total income of Rs.62,02,745/-. 6. It was submitted that during the course of assessment
proceedings the assessing officer found that during the period from
1.4.1996 to 31.3.2001 the assessee incurred an additional expenditure of
Rs.10.64 crores for providing additional infrastructure facilities for the
purpose of online trading to replace the outcry system of trading in shares.
The assessing officer alleged that the creation of infrastructure facilities
resulted direct benefits to the members. The online trading system
introduced for trading of shares and securities. Prior to introduction of on
line trading system the business was carried by the outcry system of
trading. In this system the investor had to book their orders at the private
office of brokers, the brokers had to execute the same at the trading
platform provided by the exchange at its premises. The investors were
not allowed into the trading platform for monitoring the execution and
confirmation of their orders. The investor cannot witness the actual price
at which a script is purchased or sold. As per the directions of SEBI,
online trading/screen based trading system was introduced. In this
system of trading, the brokers will operate the trading from the terminals
provided at their office premises. The investors are also allowed to the
brokers office for placing their orders. The investors are able to witness
the prices of the shares and transactions at which they are bought during 3 4 ITA No.543 & 467/H/2005 & 2010 Hyderabad Stock Exchange Ltd., Hyd. the entire day on any system. Transparency and speed in the execution of
order are the main benefit of the screen based trading system. 7. He submitted that in the outcry system, order of the investors
was confirmed only at the last evening by the brokers to their clients.
Most of the time the price of the script were volatile varying upto 5% to
10% and some time more during the intraday. Investors were put to loss
and brokers were benefited, when the brokers confirmed the lower rate for
the seller and higher rates for the buyers. In the SBT system, the
investors can view their order by sitting before the system itself and get
confirmation on the same within no time online. Therefore misleading the
investors which was resulting in huge profits to the brokers by
mischievous methods is totally eliminated. Further, SEBI introduced
unique client code for the benefit of investors. The brokers have to assign
a unique client code for each investor. At the time of execution of
transaction, the brokers have to feed the client code which is available with
the exchange. After the introduction of Unique Client Code misleading the
investor by the broker was totally removed at the time of execution of
order, All these steps were possible only on account of introduction of
online trading system. Therefore he submitted that the online trading
system which is introduced as per the guidelines of the SEBI is in fact
resulted for the benefit of investors and put an end to sum of the practices
of brokers under the earlier system. This is in a way is beneficial to the
investor and disadvantageous to the brokers. Therefore the investments in
infrastructure facility has not created any benefit to the brokers and in fact
it has eliminated the dubious methods some times followed by some
brokers. 8. He submitted that the assessee provided insurance coverage
to cover the loss on account of fraud or loss in transit of share certificates 4 5 ITA No.543 & 467/H/2005 & 2010 Hyderabad Stock Exchange Ltd., Hyd. which is stated to have infringed the provisions of the Act. He also stated
that the assessee floated a subsidiary called "HSE Securities Ltd" which
became brokers of "NSE" and 'BSE' and the members of the assessee
became sub brokers o the said subsidiary in order to trade in NSE and
BSE. This was alleged to have section 11(5) of the Act. He stated that the
assessee spent amounts towards setting up of another exchange called
'Inter Connected Stock Exchange of India Ltd. (ICSE)'. The assessing
officer pointed out that there was substantial increase in expenditure
without any corresponding increase in subscription and fee collected from
members. In the opinion of the assessing officer the above actions of the
exchange resulted benefits to the members, thereby attracting the
provisions of section 13(1) (c ) r.w.s. 13(1)(3) of the Act. 9. It was submitted that the HSE was a mutual association
formed for the purpose of protecting the public interested in securities, to
support and protect the character and status of brokers and dealers, to
assist regulate and control the trade or business in securities, to maintain
high standards of commercial honour and integrity, to promote and
inculcate honourable practices and just and equitable principles of trade
and business, to discharge and suppress malpractices, to settle disputes
and to decide all questions of usage, custom or courtesy in the conduct of
trade and business by pooling the resources from members. 10. It was also submitted that in the year 1995, a large number of
new members were enrolled and an amount of Rs.13.93 crores was
received and in the subsequent years, this amount was utilized for a
building at Somajiguda because with the increase of members, a larger
building would be necessary and also for introduction of screen based
trading as per the directions of SEBI. In addition, various deposits such
as members security deposit, remiseries security deposit, deposit for space 5 6 ITA No.543 & 467/H/2005 & 2010 Hyderabad Stock Exchange Ltd., Hyd. in the new building, and capital adequacy deposit were also collected from
members which were available for providing additional facilities to
members to carry on activity of stock broking. On the issue of screen
based trading facilities provided, it was submitted that SEBI vide letters
dated 11.12.1995 and 19.1.1996 directed all stock exchanges to introduce
on line stock trading system in the place of age old out cry system. Thus it
has become mandatory requirement on the part of the HSE to provide the
facility in the form of screen based trading system enabling the members
to carry out the trading electronically in a more transparent manner to
serve the interest of the investors. The facilities provided to the members
are mandatory in nature without creating ownership rights and thereby to
serve the interest of the investors in the state of Andhra Pradesh. The
computers provided were connected to the stock exchange and the
members are merely allowed use of the equipment and in the event of
discontinuance of trading the computers are to be returned to the stock
exchange. It was submitted that the exchange had obtained an affidavit
from the members indicating that the computers were allowed on the basis
of license to use for a specific. The members were charged turnover fee for
the use of the computers. All the other expenses such as leased line
charges etc. are paid by the members only. 11. According to him the Governance of exchange and the
functional activities are totally controlled by SEBI and the administration
is run under the supervision and guidance of the Governing Board which
is constituted with a composition as per rules and regulations of SEBI.
The Governing Board consists of 13 directors two of whom are SEBI
nominees. Four are public representatives. One is an executive director
appointed by SEBI and 6 directors are elected from the members of the
exchange. Further, the facilities are provided to all the members uniformly
in the interest of the investors and the exchange and not to any class or 6 7 ITA No.543 & 467/H/2005 & 2010 Hyderabad Stock Exchange Ltd., Hyd. group of members. Thus all the members are not covered by under sec.13(3) (a) author of the trust or the founder of the institution, 13(3)(cc)
any trustee of the trust or the manager of the institution, and 13(3)(d) any
relative of such author, founder, personal as aforesaid and the facilities
provided to all members was to carry on stock broking activity as
envisaged in the memorandum of the company is beyond the scope of section 13(3) of the IT Act. 12. He submitted that in so far as sec.13(1) is concerned, the
provision of facilities to the member brokers is a primary purpose of the
exchange and HSE being an institution created before 1-4-62 the user of
the facilities provided is a way of compliance with the mandatory term of
the trust or mandatory rule governing the institution. As regards, the
issue whether the benefit provided to the members is for their sole benefit
or for public interest, the decision of Andhra Pradesh High Court were
brought to the notice of the assessing officer wherein the AP HC discussed
in detail the activity of the exchange and observed that the stock exchange
is eligible for exemption u/s 11 . It was submitted that the stock brokers
insurance policy, was taken up in pursuance of the direction issued by the
Ministry of Finance vide letter No.F.No.1/71/SE/91 dt. 25.9.1991. As
regards floating of subsidiary, viz., Hyderabad Stock Exchange Securities
Ltd., it was submitted that SEBI as per their letter dated 26.11.1999
allowed the subsidiary concept as part of revival and survival strategy to
the regional stock exchanges and members and to cater to the needs of
small investors by acquiring membership rights of larger stock exchanges
like NSE/BSE. A condition was stipulated that the subsidiary was to be
wholly owned by the stock exchange. Accordingly, with the approval of
SEBI vide their letter dated 1.2.2000, the assessee has collected
refundable deposit of Rs.3 lakhs from each member and has invested the
said amount in the subsidiary towards share capital in order to maintain 7 8 ITA No.543 & 467/H/2005 & 2010 Hyderabad Stock Exchange Ltd., Hyd. the required net and to main the character of wholly owned subsidiary. It
was submitted that the investment was application of the funds of the
assessee institution to meet the requirement of the institution and does
not confer any undue benefit to any member other than the activity that
the exchange has been formed for. It was further submitted that the
Governing Board of the subsidiary is also on the similar lines as that of the
exchange consisting of 13 members viz., a Chief Executive Officer
appointed by SEBI, 6 SEBI public representative directors drawn from
various fields of expertise appointed by SEBI and 6 member directors
appointed by the exchange. All the decisions relating to the subsidiary are
taken by the Governing Board in a fair and transparent manner in
consonance with the guidelines of SEBI, NSE and BSE in the overall
interest of the subsidiary and the assessee exchange. 13. He further submitted that the Inter Connected Stock
Exchange of India, with the emergence of NSE using screen based trading
system, the Regional Stock Exchanges in India like HSE faced severe
competition and lost business to NSE and BSE. Therefore all the Regional
Stock Exchanges (14) in India to keep themselves afloat in the changed
scenario decided to come together and form a new exchange as approved
by SEBI in the name and style of Inter Connected Stock Exchange. The
required expenditure for setting up ICSE was met by all the 14
participating regional exchanges. The membership of this exchange to
enable the member brokers to carry on their activity as envisaged in the
memorandum of association in order to serve the investors. 14. It was also submitted by the learned AR that all the facilities
mentioned above were for use of all the members of the assessee and not
for the author or founder of the institution or for the trustee or manager of
the institution or their relatives. It was submitted that the provisions of 8 9 ITA No.543 & 467/H/2005 & 2010 Hyderabad Stock Exchange Ltd., Hyd. facilities to the member brokers does not constitute providing facilities to
use any property of the institution for the undue benefit of the limited
corpus of persons. The purpose of section 13(3) was to prevent diversion
of funds of the institution for the benefit of a few members or other
relatives. In the present case, there is no such diversion and the use of
funds is a legitimate application of funds to achieve the primary purpose of
the exchange. 15. Further he submitted that only income of the institution and
not corpus can be taxed in case of contravention of the provisions of sec.13 It was submitted that there was substantial contribution to the corpus of
the institution and it was these funds that were utilized to meet the capital
expenses on construction of building, provision of screen based trading
system, investment in HSE Securities Limited and advanced to
Interconnected Stock Exchange of India etc. The assessing officer
however, completed the assessments denying exemption u/s 11 and
treated the assessee as taxable entity for the assessment years 2001-02. 16. He relied on the judgement of the Hon'ble High Court of AP in
the case of Hyderabad Stock Exchange Ltd. Vs. CIT (66 ITR 195 AP)
wherein held that: ]
 There could be little doubt from what we have said above that the object of
the stock exchange is not only to serve a general public utility but has also
a charitable purpose". 17. He submitted that in the light of the above decision of the
Hon'ble HC, the CIT(A) ought to have held that as long as the provision of
facilities to the members have the ultimate object of serving the general
public, such provision is not caught within the mischief of Sec.13 of the IT
Act whether it is 13(1)(c)(ii) or 13(2)(a) or (b). 18. It was bought to our notice that Shri Badri Narayan Rathi
ceased to be a member in the year 1984 and he is not a person covered u/s 13(3)(a) of the Act. The CIT(A) ought to have appreciated that the
member brokers are not caught within the mischief of section 13(3)(a) to(e).
A reference to clause 2 of the Memorandum of Association as per which
the stock exchange shall be constituted of those persons who are and
hereafter be duly admitted as members of the exchange. Article 29 and 30 of the Memorandum and Articles of Association fixes the entrance and
membership fee. Payment of entrance fee or membership fee cannot be 10 11 ITA No.543 & 467/H/2005 & 2010 Hyderabad Stock Exchange Ltd., Hyd. termed as contribution within the meaning of section 13(3)(b) . Even
otherwise no case has been made by the assessing officer to show that
there has been substantial contribution to the assessee company by any of
the members. Similarly members of the Governing Board have been
erroneously held as falling within the scope of section 13(3)(cc) . In this
connection kind attention is invited to the extracts of the definition of the
word 'Manager' as appearing in the 16th edition of the commentary on Companies Act by A. Ramaiah. In order to qualify as manager, a person
has to have management of the whole or substantially the whole, of the
affairs of a company and includes a director if he occupies the position of
such manager, in such case of the assessee company, the governance of
the company is not wholly or substantially left in the hands of the
directors because there are 13 directors including nominees of the SEBI. 19. According to the learned AR the expenditure has to be judged
w.r.t. the objective rather than immediate destination. Where expenditure
was incurred at the instance of the state on 'model villages' to promote
infrastructural facilities and new markets in villages the said expenditure
was held allowed u/s 37 as held by the Karnataka High Court in the case
of CIT Vs. Karnataka Financial Corporation (326 ITR 355). The assessee in
this case spent monies as a scheme called "Swasthi Grama Yonaja" 20. According to him, in the light of the decision of the Hon'ble HC
of AP in the assessee's own case and the decision of the Hon'ble Karnataka
High Court the impugned expenditure on provision of screen based trading 11 12 ITA No.543 & 467/H/2005 & 2010 Hyderabad Stock Exchange Ltd., Hyd. facilities, the provision of the insurance facilities, formation of the
subsidiary company viz., HSE Securities Ltd. and the expenditure towards
setting up of another exchange called 'Inter Connected Stock Exchange of
India Ltd." were all activities that were in harmony with the charitable
harmonious and other items of expenditure cannot be said to be violative
of sec.13 Income Tax Act since the motive was not to benefit the prohibited
persons but to further, the objects of the assessee viz. 21. In respect of creation of subsidiary it is also submitted that
Central Board of Direct Tax has amended Rule 17(c ) by introducing sub
rule (v) w.e.f. 26.11.1997 to accommodate the investment made by the
stock exchange in its wholly owned subsidiary. Therefore there is no
violation of section 11(5) of the Act. 22. He drew out attention to sub clause (v) of Rule 17C of IT
Rules, 1962 which is reproduced hereunder: Hyderabad Stock Exchange Ltd., Hyd. 23. He drew our attention to Article 115(i) which deals with the
administrative powers of governing board wherein sub Articles deals with
fee and charges. This article is to be imposed and implemented as per the
requirements of the exchange and as per the discretion of the governing
board. In this regard it is respectfully submitted that the revenue cannot
enter into the arm chair of the governing board and decide that the
collections should have been made to compensate the provisions of
infrastructure facilities. The issue has been settled in several cases in
respect of business in expenditure where in the Supreme Court has stated
that revenue cannot justifiably claim to put itself in the arm chair of the
business man or in the position of the board of directors and assume the
role of business man. (SA Builders ltd. Vs. CIT 288 ITR 1). In the light of
this legal position, the learned AR that the CIT(A) erred in holding that the
company violated the legal provisions as also the rules made by itself. In
this connection it is submitted by the learned AR that the support taken
by the CIT(A) from the decision of the Hon'ble HC of AP in the case of
Action for Welfare and Awakening in Rural Environment (AWARE) Vs.
DCIT (263 ITR 13) is misplaced because the security offered in the
assessee's case is not for private gain of any interested person and the
purpose was in furtherance of advancing the charitable objects of the
assessee. 24. On the other hand the learned departmental representative
submitted that the assessee has violated provisions of section 13(1) of the
Act. The income of the Trust cannot be determined for the benefit of the
prohibited persons when the assessee has derived the income for any
purpose other than the person authorised by the Trust and hence, the
exemption cannot be granted. According to learned departmental
representative the member brokers of the HSE are integral part of the
constitutional in the Exchange and are entrusted persons. He placed 13 14 ITA No.543 & 467/H/2005 & 2010 Hyderabad Stock Exchange Ltd., Hyd. reliance on the Article 2 of the Articles of Association, of the company
reads as under: 25. According the learned departmental representative the
member brokers are covered within the meaning of provisions of section
13(3)(3) (cc ) of the Act. The claim of the assessee is that such members
were non executive directors who did not receive any remuneration or
sitting fees and hence does not make any difference to their being
prohibited persons. According to him, the assessee extended the benefit to
the interested persons without adequate compensation. Even if it is
presumed that the equipment etc. were lent to the members 'user licence'
basis, yet the same was done without adequate security or adequate
interest. Since nothing was collected from the members for providing
benefits to them, there is a clear violation of provisions of section 13(2a) and Sec.13(2b) and Sec.13(cc) of the Act. Further, he submitted that the Article 115(1) of the Assessee company clearly provided for collection of
separate and additional charges or fees over and above the dues and
charges provided for in the Rules, Bylaw and Regulations of the Exchange
from the members for the 'use of equipment or facilities or any particular
service or privileges granted'. He submitted that the Governing Board of
the assessee Exchange was not only empowered to collect such
fees/charges, but also were expected to collect the same in order to protect
the interest of the Exchange as well as to comply with the provisions of the
Act to avail the benefit u/s 11 of the Act. 26. The learned DR relied on the following judgements: 27. We have heard both the parties and perused the materials
available on record. The assessee herein is a recognized stock exchange
under the Securities, Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 and has been
constituted for the purpose of developing the stock market. There is no
dispute regarding the proposition that the basic objective of the stock
exchange being development of the stock market is covered under the
definition of 'Charitable purpose' as contained u/s 2(15) of the IT Act.
With the fast pace of industrialization and the emerging recent trend of
liberalization and globalization in the national economic, capital market
and obviously be a potent tool for giving an impetus to development of
commerce and industry. Stock market, while regulating and controlling
the business of buying and selling of shares, debentures and other
securities, considerably facilitate resources mobilization by the industrial
sector. The inflow of private savings into the corporate sector as well as
the inflow of foreign capital into the various sectors of industry are aided
and promoted by an efficient and developed capital market. In view of
this matter, various stock exchanges have been recognized as charitable
institutes entitled to exemptions u/s 11 of the IT Act. Thus, the dominant
objective of the assessee exchange is covered as a charitable object for the
purpose of exemption u/s 11 of the IT Act. Registration u/s 12A has
been granted to the assessee by the department on the reason that the 15 16 ITA No.543 & 467/H/2005 & 2010 Hyderabad Stock Exchange Ltd., Hyd. assessee is a charitable institution and its objects are covered as
charitable as per the definition of 'Charitable purpose' contained u/s 2(15) of the IT Act. Once the institution has been registered u/s 12A , it is for
the assessing officer to find out whether the income of the institution has
been applied for the objects of the institution and the statutory conditions
as contained u/s 11 to 13 are fulfilled by the assessee. To avail benefit u/s 11 , the activity carried out by the assessee to be for the benefit of
general public. The main object shall aim at maintaining high standards
of commercial honour and integrity providing honourable practices
discouraging and suppressing malpractices, settling disputes among
brokers, dealers and jobbers, deciding all questions of usage, custom or
courtesy in conducting the business of brokers, dealers and jobbers in
stocks, shares and like securities were to lead to the advancement or
promotion of trade, commerce and industry resulting in economic
prosperity endured for the benefit of general public. The main object to be
attend by the assessee are to be promote trade, commerce and industry
leading to the economic prosperity of the people at the large and such
object fall within the purview of the expression 'object of general public
utility' . Any act carried on by the assessee for the benefit of members of
the assessee's exchange only and not for the benefit of public at large,
then the assessing officer has to examine the availability of exemption u/s
11 of the IT Act. The activities carried on by the assessee directly or
indirectly which help its individual members , then its activities goes out of
the spirit of charity and are detrimental to and destructive of the primary
or main objects. If the assessee is having uncontrolled powers to carry out
any object which is to benefit its members, employees or ex-employees,
then exemption u/s 11 should not be available to the assessee though at
the same time primary dominant purpose of the assessee is of the nature
of 'general public utility'. The assessee cannot carry on any activities for
the exclusive benefit of the members or employees or ex-members or ex- Hyderabad Stock Exchange Ltd., Hyd. employees or their dependants at the cost of the assessee's fund. The
assessee is not under any obligation to establish fund or trust for the
benefit of the members or employees or ex-members or ex-employees or
their dependants. The assessee when carried out any activity for the sole
benefit of its members or ex-members or employees or ex-employees or
their dependants and not for the beneficial to be general public which is
distinguished from the class or community consisting of its members, ex-
members, employees or ex-employees or their dependants and
connections, it would not be entitled for exemption u/s 11 . The carrying
out of the activities for the beneficial for the members, ex-members,
employees or ex-employees or their dependants and connections, cannot
be construed as ancillary or incidental to the primary or dominants of the
assessee's exchange. In this background, if we examine the facts of the
present case, as per Article 115 (1) of the Articles of Association provides
for collection of separate and additional charges or fees over and above the
dues and charges provided in the Rules, By laws and Regulations of the
Exchange, from the members for the 'use of equipment or facilities or for
any particular services or privileges granted'. The Governing Body of the
assessee's exchange was not only empowered to collect such fees/charges
but also were expected to collect the same in order to protect the interest
of the exchange as well as the compliance of the provisions of Act to avail
the exemption u/s 11 . The members of the assessee exchange cannot get
undue advantages at the cost of assessee exchange. The members of the
exchange being the integral part of the constitution of the exchange who
are interested persons as per the provisions of section 13(1) (c ) of the Act
and they are precluded taking any undue advantages from the assessee
exchange. As seen from the facts of the case, the assessee has incurred an
additional expenditure of Rs.10,64,33,816/- for providing infrastructure
facilities in the form of screen based trading system, on line connectivity,
CMS inter connectivity, trading facility in National Stock Exchange and 17 18 ITA No.543 & 467/H/2005 & 2010 Hyderabad Stock Exchange Ltd., Hyd. Bombay Stock Exchange and also insurance cover under stock brokers
Insurance Policy. The benefits of these expenditures have been gone to the
individual stock members of the assessee and also to be members of the
Governing Board which cannot be permitted under the provision of section 11. Further, it is also fact that the assessee invested its fund in its wholly
owned subsidiary viz., HSE Securities Ltd., advanced interest free loan to
the subsidiary and also mortgaged its immovable property worth Rs.81.74
lakhs at Hymayat Nagar and pledged fixed deposits worth Rs.35.61 lakhs
to Canara Bank against bank guarantee to HSE Securities Ltd. These are
contrary to the provisions of section 11 r.w.s. 13 of the IT Act . The
assessee being registered u/s 12A of the IT Act, the benefit of the assessee
Exchange shall be for the public at large and not for the benefit of
individual stock brokers or members of Governing Board of the assessee
exchange. In our opinion, provisions of section 13 (1) ( c) r.w.s. 13(2)(b)
and 13 (3) (cc) is applicable to the fact of the case. Accordingly, the
assessee is not entitled for exemption u/s 11 of the IT Act. On considering
entire facts and circumstances of the case, we dismiss all the grounds
raised by the assessee with regard to allowability of exemption u/s 11 of
the IT Act. 28. The assessee has raised common ground in these appeals are
with regard to addition being made on the transfer to the Investors Service
Cell, Investors Protection Fund and Trade Guarantee Funds. The
assessing officer added an amount of Rs.58,48,334/- in the assessment
year 2001-02 representing transfers made by the assessee to investor
service cell, investors protection fund and trade guarantee fund
disregarding assessee's submission that these funds were established for
specified purposes of the mandatory directions of SEBI and govt. of India
and hence the same should be treated as application of income in
furtherance of the objects of the assessee exchange. Hyderabad Stock Exchange Ltd., Hyd. 29. The learned AR for the assessee also drew our attention to the
SEBI's inspection reports dated 23.11.1994 and 28.6.1996 as also Govt. of
India letter dated 20.11.1995 and assessee's report dated 6.11.1995
regarding contributions to investor protection cell and investor protections
fund. He also drew our attention to the SEBI's guidelines issued vide
their letter dated 9.6.1997 about settlement guarantee fund. He
submitted that inspite of evidence produced which showed that the
assessee was under an obligation to apply these amounts and thus
constituted application for charitable purposes, the CIT(A) observed that
these amounts were reduced from the gross receipts under different heads
of receipts shown in the income and expenditure account and only the net
receipts were shown in the said account. According to the learned AR, it is
not proper to CIT(A) to hold that when the assessee's income is to be
determined on commercial lines, these receipts have to form part of
assessee's receipts. He submitted that the CIT(A) wrongly held that a part
of the receipts were to be applied for the welfare of the investors and trades
could not make any difference as far as application of accounting
principles are concerned. It is submitted by the learned AR that the CIT(A)
should have held that these amounts constituted application of income
and accordingly, the accounting method adopted by the assessee ought to
have been accepted because the amounts transferred to the respective
fund viz., investor service cell, investor protection fund and settlement
guarantee fund constitute application and hence constitute receipts and
applications at the same time. The learned DR relied on the order of the
CIT(A). 30. We have heard both the parties on this issue. The CIT(A) has
given direction on this issue to the assessing officer that the claim of the
assessee to be examined and allow such expenditure after being satisfied 19 20 ITA No.543 & 467/H/2005 & 2010 Hyderabad Stock Exchange Ltd., Hyd. about the genuineness of the claim keeping in view the provisions of section 29 r.w.s. 37(1) of the IT Act . He has given this direction because
the assessee has not made the claim of this in the income and expenditure
account as the assessee shown the net receipt in the income and
expenditure account by reducing the impugned amount from gross
receipts and thereby shown the corresponding receipts by way of transfer
from incomes received under various heads were kept out of such
accounts and were reflected in the balance sheet directly. Accordingly, we
confirm the order of the CIT(A) on this issue. The ground raised by the
assessee is rejected. The CIT(A) has followed his order for the
assessment year 2001-02 while deciding this issue for the assessment
year 2006-07, as such we also do not find any infirmity in the order of the
CIT(A) relating to assessment year 2006-07 on this issue since the facts of
the case is similar in this year as in the assessment year 2001-02. 31. In the result, both the appeals of the assessee are dismissed. 1. M/s M. Bhaskara Rao & Co., CAs, 6-3-652 5D, 5th Floor,
 Kautilya, Somajiguda, Hyd.82 2. The ADIT (Exemptions)-I, Hyderabad 3. CIT(A)- V & III, Hyderabad. 4. CIT, Hyderabad 5. The D.R., ITAT, Hyderabad. Np 20