1. List has been revised. Supplementary and second supplementary affidavit are taken on record. 2. Heard Sri Vinay Saran, learned Senior Counsel assisted by Sri Gopal Das Srivastava, learned counsel for applicant, Sri Ganesh Kumar, learned counsel for the informant, Sri R.P. Patel, learned State Law Officer for the State and perused the material placed on record. 3. The present bail application has been filed by the applicant in Case Crime No.20 of 2025, under Sections 191(2), 191(3), 190, 140(1), 103(1), 126(2), 351(3) B.N.S., Police Station-Harraiya, District-Basti with the prayer to enlarge him on bail. 4. As per prosecution story, the applicant, along with co-accused Ranjit, Sandip @ Monu, and 7?8 unknown persons, is alleged to have deliberately intercepted the Bolero car in which the informant?s husband was travelling along with his nephew, Bajrangi Yadav. It is stated that the accused forcibly abducted the husband of the informant and took him in their Scorpio vehicle, assaulted him, and later dumped his dead body near a petrol pump. The incident was witnessed and reported by Bajrangi Yadav, the nephew of the deceased. As per the FIR, the deceased was contesting a legal case on behalf of his sister, Sonmati, which was pending against co-accused Ranjit, and the applicant, being the son of Ranjit?s maternal uncle, is related to him as cousin. 5. Learned Senior counsel for the applicant has stated that the applicant has nothing to do with the said offence. He has no interest in getting the said offence committed. The applicant happens to be a relative of the main accused person-Ranjit. The applicant being the son of the maternal uncle of the main accused person-Ranjit, there was no reason for him to commit the said offence and he has simply been made an accused on account of him being a relative of the main accused person-Ranjit. 6. Learned Senior Counsel has further argued that the nephew of the deceased person Bajrangi Yadav is stated to be an eye witness who had accompanied the deceased person in the said Bolero vehicle. There was no occasion for the applicant and other co-accused person to leave behind the said eye witness. He could have been annihilated at the spot or would have also been abducted along with the deceased person, as such, it is a clear cut case of false implication and the said witness has been roped in just to add colour to the prosecution story. 7. Learned Senior Counsel has further stated that belatedly after more than one month, several witnesses have been roped in, namely, Ashok Kumar, Ramchandra, Subhash Chandra and Shivam Tiwari, who are stated to have witnessed the said abduction but they have identified the applicant after being told names of accused subsequently. The said fact stands mentioned in their statements. 8. Learned Senior Counsel has further stated that even four witnesses have subsequently been added who are stated to have seen the said Scorpio car from which the dead body was thrown, although, they have not identified any of the persons who had thrown the said dead body near the petrol pump. 9. Learned Senior Counsel has also placed reliance on the inquest report whereby the dead body was brought by one Satendra Nath and the said person has not been examined whatsoever, although, his mobile number stands mentioned in it. Learned Senior Counsel has further stated that the story as narrated in the FIR is different to what the inquest witnesses have told at the time of inquest proceedings. The CDR also indicates that the applicant was not present at the place of occurrence rather he was at his place of residence and the said CDR has been taken into possession by the Investigating Officer. 10. Learned Senior Counsel lastly submits that applicant has criminal history of five cases which stands explained. The applicant is in jail since 28.01.2025 and he is ready to cooperate with trial. In case, the applicant is released on bail, he will not misuse the liberty of bail. 11. Per contra, learned counsel for the informant and learned A.G.A. have vehemently opposed the bail application on the ground that the parameters of Section 194 B.N.S.S. do not lay down that the cause of offence or the names of accused persons or modus operandi may be mentioned in it, but, herein in the statement of the panch witnesses, the Scorpio car has been mentioned and the factum of abduction has also been mentioned in it, although the numbers of the Scorpio car and the Bolero Car has not been mentioned. It is further argued that the place of occurrence is about two and half kilomemeters from the residence of the applicant. 12. It is further argued on behalf of the informant that the deceased person had sustained 24 injuries on his body and he was so brutally assaulted that he could not survive. The FIR cannot be considered to be delayed as it was instituted within four hours after the incident, as such, it can be considered instituted within a reasonable time. It is further argued that the applicant did not have any conversation from his mobile about half hour before and half hour after the said incident which indicates his complicity in the crime. 13. After hearing learned counsel for the parties and taking into consideration the fact that applicant is named in the FIR and the place of occurrence being only two and half kilometers apart from the place of residence of the applicant, and also considering the statement of witnesses indicating that the CDR presented was an attempt by the applicant to fabricate evidence in his favour, I do not find it a fit case for grant of bail to the applicant. 14. The bail application is found devoid of merits and is, accordingly, rejected. 15. However, it is directed that the aforesaid case pending before the trial court be decided expeditiously in view of the principle as has been laid down in the recent judgments of the Supreme Court in the cases of Vinod Kumar vs. State of Punjab ; 2015 ( 3) SCC 220 and Hussain and Another vs. Union of India ; (2017) 5 SCC 702, if there is no legal impediment. 16. It is clarified that the observations made herein are limited to the facts brought in by the parties pertaining to the disposal of bail application and the said observations shall have no bearing on the merits of the case during trial. (Krishan Pahal,J.) 
 
October 16, 2025 
 
Karan