The petitioner-Chalasani Satya Bhaskar is A.1 among three

accused. Leave about Crl.R.C.No.172 of 2017 insofar as that of A.2-

Yeleti Gopalakrishna and A.3-V.L.Jayaprada Devi allowed by this

Court on 09.02.2017, which is out come of the common order of the

learned trial Judge (XII Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate,

Hyderabad), in the pending C.C.No.180 of 2016 taken cognizance for

the offences punishable under Sections 385 and 506 read with 34 IPC ,

from the discharge application filed by the accused persons in

Crl.M.P.No.4789 of 2016 so far as A.2 and A.3 and Crl.M.P.No.931

of 2017 so far as A.1, by order, dated 03.11.2017. The 2nd respondent

is the de facto complainant, by name, S.Srinivasa Rao, Chief Financial

Officer of M/s.Kakinada SEZ Pvt. Limited, on whose report Crime

No.232 of 2015 was registered by the Cyber Crime Police Station,

CCS, DD, Hyderabad, on 16.07.2015, for the said offences against the

three accused and police after investigation by referring to several

documents and 11 witnesses including LW.11-Investigating Officer,

LW.10-Scientific Officer, LWs.8 and 9-panch witnesses to the seizure

and LWs.2 to 7-circumstantial witnesses, besides LW.1-de facto

complainant, filed the police final report. It is from the police final

report in the form of charge sheet the cognizance was taken.

Subsequently, impugning the same after appearance of the accused

filed the discharge applications that were ended in dismissal. 2 Dr.SSRB, J Crl.R.C.No.3273 of 2017 2. Coming to the present revision grounds in impugning the

dismissal of the said discharge application of the petitioner/A.1 in

Crl.M.P.No.931 of 2017, dated 03.11.2017, the contentions are that

the learned trial Judge's order of dismissal of the discharge

application is illegal, improper, incorrect even none of the offences

that attracts to the investigation material and not even the Court seen

properly the averments made in the charge sheet that discloses a false

implication of the petitioner with no basis and with oblique motive

and ought to have seen that the total acquired land is 8,236.50 acres

from the farmers during the year 2006-2007 out of 2500 each, totaling

5000 acres and rest of the land is domestic tariff area and there is

nothing wrong in the petitioners seeking for the sale or lease, the trial

Judge should have seen that after due diligence and after obtaining

legal opinion, the petitioner came to know that the land supra was

mortgaged to L.I.C. and I.C.I.C.I. Bank and obtained a loan of 2,000

crores and diverted the same to the complainant's other companies,

the trial Judge should have seen that after coming to know about the

said land given as collateral security to the complainant's to other

companies, the petitioner/A.1 requested the APIIC for identification

of suitable land and accordingly on 25.04.2015 the Zonal Manager,

APIIC, has identified the land of 750 acres out of 810 acres of

Rameshampeta Village, Peddapuram Mandal, East Godavari District.

It is also the contention vis-à-vis the grounds in the revision petition

against the discharge dismissal application that LW.6-Surya Narayana
 3 Dr.SSRB, J Crl.R.C.No.3273 of 2017 filed P.I.L.No.274 of 2014 before the High Court in his capacity as

Secretary, K.S.E.Z. Vytirekaporata Samithi, being well educated

person with decree in law and enrolled as Advocate and LW.6 in the

habit of filing P.I.Ls. and even prior to filing of P.I.L.No.274 of 2014,

K.S.E.Z. Vytirekaporata Committee addressed letter to the D.G.P.,

A.P., stating he colluded with K.S.E.Z. and mislead and the learned

Judge ought to have seen the allegations that the petitioner/A.1

colluded with his father-in-law/A.2 and maternal grand aunt/A.3 filed

P.I.L.No.84 of 2016 before the High Court and said allegations set

aside by the Court in Crl.R.C.No.172 of 2017 and the learned Judge

ought to have seen that K.S.E.Z. Vytirekaporata Committee filed

W.P.No.28056 of 2008 before the High Court, wherein LW.6-Surya

Narayana and by order, dated 22.12.2014, the writ petition was

dismissed. It is further averred and contended of the learned trial

Judge should have seen that the farmers filed W.P.No.680 of 2007 and

batch before the High Court, which observed no hesitation to hold that

the purpose of acquisition in 'formation of a Special Economic Zone'

(SEZ) is a public purpose under Section C(f) (vii) of the Act and SEZ

authority under Section 31 of the Act would amply satisfies the test of

local authority under Section 3(aa) of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894

and convinced that the 5th respondent is not obtaining a proprietary

right on the acquired land and as per the rules under the SEZ Act , and

there is a prohibition on the developer from alienating the land and the

learned Judge ought to have seen that the petitioner/A.1 is
 4 Dr.SSRB, J Crl.R.C.No.3273 of 2017 unnecessarily roped to harass and thereby the revision to be allowed

by setting aside the dismissal order of the discharge application. 3. Sri T.Pradyumna Kumar Reddy, learned counsel for the

petitioner, in the course of hearing reiterated the same and drawn

attention of the Court including to the reply to the counter of the 2nd

respondent to the revision petition averments and drawn attention of

the Court to the two expressions, particularly on the scope of Section

383 and 384 IPC, the expression of the Apex Court in ISAAC

ISANGA MUSUMBA AND OTHERS V. STATE OF

MAHARASHTRA AND OTHERS1 and that the Single Judge

expression of this Court in Lanka Hanumantha Rao and others v.

State of A.P. and others2. 4. Where as it is the submission of the learned Public Prosecutor

in supporting the contentions of the learned counsel for the de facto

complainant/2nd respondent contended in the counter and what is

reiterated in the course of hearing by drawing distinction between the

role of A.3 and A.2 when compared that of the petitioner/A.1 and

merely because rightly or wrongly not challenged the order in

Crl.R.C.No.172 of 2017 passed by this self same Court on 09.02.2017

that is not a ground for the petitioner as A.1 to invoke the aid of that

order that too when the order specifically speaks role of them is

different to that of the role of A.1 if at all to survive the accusation

and thereby sought for dismissal of the revision petition saying 1 (2014) 15 SCC 357 2 2005 (1) ALD (Crl.) 986 (AP)
 5 Dr.SSRB, J Crl.R.C.No.3273 of 2017 nothing to interfere with the impugned dismissal order of the

discharge petition of the petitioner/A.1. 5. Heard both sides and perused the material on record. 6. The sum and substance of the accusation right from the report

in registration of the crime, leave about A.2 and A.3 and their role

which is not germane herein, insofar as the petitioner/A.1 concerned,

including from the police final report in substance is that the

petitioner/A.1 played the trick of criminal extortion in the attempt to

seek delivery of valuable property allotted to the SEZ from the entity

represented by the de facto complainant in several methods by using

several people in cause filing Public Interest Litigations or Writ

Petitions or in addressing the officials to cancel the allotment if

possible including by brining on record the so-called political party

Lok Satha and the members therein. Now, the revision is against the

dismissal order of the discharge petition of the petitioner/A.1. 7. It is necessary to reproduce the said order of the learned trial

Judge in dismissal of the discharge petition of the petitioner/A.1,

dated 03.11.2017, running in 19 paras, reads as follows: 8 Dr.SSRB, J Crl.R.C.No.3273 of 2017 12. Further stated that the Hon'ble Supreme Court observed
that in the criminal cases in para 19 of the Judgment in Dinesh
Tiwari vs. State of U.P. that "At the initial stage of framing of a
charge, the Court is concerned not with proof but with a strong
suspicion that the accused has committed an offence, which, if
put to trial, could prove him guilty. All that the court has to see
is that the material on record and facts would be compatible with
the innocence of the accused or not. The final test of guilt is not
to be applied at that stage. We may refer to the well-settled law laid down by this court in state of Bihar V. Ramesh Singh (SCC
pp.41-42, para4)" 4. Under section 26 of the code while opening
the case for the prosecution the prosecutor has got to describe the
charge against the accused and state by what evidence he
proposes to prove the guilt of the accused". Hence, prayed court
to dismiss this discharge petition. 13. The point that arise for determination whether there are
any sufficient grounds to discharge the accused. 14. In this matter for discharge of the accused from the
allegations leveled against him the only point for consideration is
the accused has to show that even if, entire record filed by the
prosecution is admitted, there is no material to frame any charge
against the accused Section 239 Cr.P.C. is very clear so far as the
exercise of powers of discharge, at the stage of framing of
charges the trial court can only see whether there is a prima facie
case regarding the charges leveled against the accused or not.
Charges framed will be proved or not can be determined only
after the trial of the case. On perusal of the entire case record
including 161 Cr.P.C . statements of the prosecution witnesses
there is a prima facie case to proceed against the accused. 15. The learned counsel for the accused relied upon a
citation reported in 2013 SAR (Criminal) 28 reported in Sheoraj
Singh Ahlawat and others vs. State of and another wherein it was
observed that: 16. "The court is not expected to go deep into the probative
 value of the material on record. What needs to be considered is
 whether there is a ground for presuming that the offence has been
 committed and not a ground for convicting the accused has been
 made out. At that stage, even strong suspicion founded on
 material which leads the court to form a presumptive opinion as
 to the existence of the factual ingredients constituting the offence
 alleged would justify the framing of charge against the accused
 in respect of the commission of that offence." 17. As per the complaint contents, charge sheet and
 statements of witnesses, the accused approached the defacto
 complainant, for allotment of 300 acres for agri-park. He started
 dictating terms, and blackmailed the defacto complainant by
 filing many petitions and sent mails to statutory authorities to
 damage the reputation of defacto complainant. From the material
 available on record it cannot be straight away said there is no
 case to frame charge against the petitioner. 18. For the above reasons, I am of the considered opinion
 that there are no sufficient grounds to discharge the petitioner for
 the offence leveled against him. 19. In the result petition is dismissed." 8. Now coming to the scope of the order of this Court so far as

A.2 and A.3 in setting aside their dismissal of the discharge

application by its allowing in Crl.R.C.No.172 of 2017, dated

09.02.2017, at page No.40, reads as follows: 10 Dr.SSRB, J Crl.R.C.No.3273 of 2017 through them and there is no direct witness to speak A3 or A2
 corresponding with complainant entity or approached under the
 guise of the PIL for any benefit to A1, even to say any of their
 complicity to the crime. But for if at all any material against A1
 from the above, there is nothing against A2 and A3. In the
 absence of which, mere filing of PIL cannot make them to be
 roped as co-accused with A1; that too in the year 2014, there
 were two PILs filed by KSEZ Vyathireka Porata Committee
 consisting of five or six persons and also by another person
 including LW6 and when they are not implicated, merely
 because A3 happened to be a distant relative to A1, there is no
 basis, but for if at all to say, A2 happened to be father-in-law of
 A1 and that is not even a basis to implicate A2 without any
 factual foundation to show his complicity to the alleged crime.
 Thereby the taking of cognizance is unsustainable so also in
 dismissing the discharge application. The earlier filing of the
 quash petition and direction for earlier disposal of the criminal
 case is different, that does not mean no charges can be framed or
 in the course of hearing charges, where there is no material, no
 discharge can be ordered. Having regard to the above and in the result the revision is
 allowed, the order of the Magistrate dismissing the discharge
 application is set aside and the petitioners A2 and A3 are
 discharged from the final report and cognizance taken against
 them is set aside for no material to frame any charges against
 them to put them to trial, much less for the offences punishable
 under Sections 506 and 385 read with Section 34 of IPC, along
 with A1. There shall be no order as to costs." 9. No doubt, from the respective hearing, the order clearly

observes from what is reproduced supra of the operative portion of at

best it makes out any case from the material against A.1 for the

offences and not against A.2 and A.3. It is needless to discuss herein
 11 Dr.SSRB, J Crl.R.C.No.3273 of 2017 the attention of the learned counsel for the de facto complainant/2nd

respondent of even the observations in discharge in allowing the

revision petition against dismissal of the discharge of A.2 and A.3

also not fully correct by drawing attention to the charge sheet

averments and the statements of the witnesses, for the reason though

there are certain omissions if at all it is not open to impugn herein so

far as the allowing of revision of A.2 and A.3 concerned before this

Court that too without review and that too without appeal or attack

before any superior Court. 10. Thus, now confining to the present revision application

impugning the discharge petition of A.1 concerned, the order of

allowing the revision against dismissal of the discharge application of

A.2 and A.3 no way comes in aid to A.1 therefrom without any further

requirement of repetition of facts. 11. Before coming to the facts in the present revision, coming to

the legal position mainly the two expressions placed reliance by the

learned counsel for the revision petitioner/A.1 impugning the

dismissal of the discharge application in saying ingredients of the

offences under Sections 385 and 506 IPC have no application

concerned, in Issac Isanga Musumba supra, the Court dealt only on

the scope of Section 384 IPC, leave about Section 441 IPC and

observed particularly in para 3 as can be seen even suffice to extract

from the head note that contends in the body of the order that in

complaint, no mention that pursuant to the demands, any amount was
 12 Dr.SSRB, J Crl.R.C.No.3273 of 2017 delivered to accused by complainants and unless property is delivered

to the accused pursuant to the threat, no offence of extortion is made

out. Coming to the Single Judge expression of this Court in Lanka

Hanumanatha Rao supra for the offence under Section 383 IPC, the

observation at para 6 after reproduction in para 5 Section 383 IPC, is

that if a person voluntarily delivers any property without there being

any fear of injury, an extortion cannot be said to have been

committed. Even the illustrations under Section 383 of IPC would

reveal that the delivery must be pursuant to threat of injury to

reputation, to the body or to the body of another person. If someone

forces another person to deliver some property as alleged, without

there being an element of dishonest intention to cause injury or the

feeling of fear of injury in the deliverer, an offence of extortion cannot

be made out. 12. There is no necessity to extract Section 383 IPC in toto,

particularly the illustrations (a) to (d), but for the substance of the

main section speaks, whoever intentionally puts any person in fear of

any injury to that person, or to any other, and thereby dishonestly

induces the person so put in fear to deliver to any person, any property

or valuable security or anything signed or sealed which may be

converted into a valuable security, commits 'extortion'. 13. No doubt, if one considers the scope of Section 383 IPC, it

speaks about putting a person or another person on his behalf fear of

injury in dishonestly inducing the person so put in fear to deliver to
 13 Dr.SSRB, J Crl.R.C.No.3273 of 2017 any person, any property or valuable security or anything signed or

sealed that may be converted into a valuable security. However,

coming to the very wording of Section 385 IPC, with which the

accusation for the crime registered and the police final report from the

investigation filed and the cognizance taken and the charge framed by

the trial Court by dismissing the discharge application of A.1 which is

present impugnment supra, the wording of Section 385 IPC is as

follows: 14. Section 383 IPC punishable under Section 384 IPC is up to

three years or fine or both. Whereas, Section 385 IPC which deals

only with the even the attempt to commit extortion referred supra

punishable only up to two years or fine or both. Nothing more is

required to discuss on the scope of Section 385 IPC for even an

attempts to put in fear in order to committing of extortion is enough.

No accomplished act is contemplated there from. Thus, none of the

two expressions, which are on the scope of Section 385 IPC cannot be

extended to read the Section 385 IPC in view of the above. Now from

this dismissal order of the learned trial Judge in Crl.M.P.No.931 of

2017 reproduced above, no way requires to be repeated, but for what

it observed in para 17 incorporated supra of not detailed as to the

complaint contents charge sheet, statements of witnesses, show the
 14 Dr.SSRB, J Crl.R.C.No.3273 of 2017 accused approached the de facto complainant concerned, to consider

from the charge sheet accusation with reference to the witnesses

examined. LW.1-S.Srinivasa Rao, whose statement, in parmateria to

the report registered as FIR no way requires reproduction, much less

to discuss when it speaks of ingredients though can be contended as

self serving in the absence of other corroboration from the

investigation to support it. Leave about, several witnesses examined

on behalf of the prosecution. Now mainly drawn attention of the

Court to LWs.6 and 7. LW.6 is one I. Suryanarayana, a Social

Worker and Secretary of KSEZ, Timmapuram Village. In his

statement before the Investigating Officer what he stated is he is

aware of the KSEZ setting up a port based multi-product SEZ in

U.Kothapalli and Thondangi Mandals of East Godavari District, over

8,500 acres and they were carrying out agitations in the area in respect

of land acquisition, yearly realization of projects to improve

employment potential in the region. As part of their agitations they

filed writ petitions and a PIL in AP High Court that was dismissed.

During August and September 2014, one Yeleti Gopala Krishna (A.2),

a resident of Kakinada, visited them and informed that he would help

them in their agitation and filing of PIL against KSEZ and took him to

his son-in-law/A.1/Chalasani Satya Bhaskar, who is the petitioner

herein, residing at Hyderabad, who would help them in filing PIL and

consequently he met Chalasani Satya Bhaskar/A.1/petitioner with

A.2/Yeleti Gopala Krishna, father-in-law of A.1, at Hyderabad and
 15 Dr.SSRB, J Crl.R.C.No.3273 of 2017 A.1 provided a guest house and car facility to LW.6 and took him to

lawyers office, whom he introduced as Senior Lawyers and who

would be drafting the PIL and when he enquired about various aspects

of the PIL and large number of respondents, A.1 informed the LW.6

that it is necessary to bring pressure on KSEZ. Finally, in March

2015 the PIL was withdrawn without his (LW.6) consent and when he

enquired A.1, he informed that it was necessary to withdraw the PIL

as it would have got dismissed otherwise. Later on, LW.6 came to

know that another PIL was filed on Smt. V.L. Jayaprada Devi (A.3)

name and contents of the PIL were similar. He (LW.6) has not

written any letters about the PIL to any authorities. LW.6 has no

knowledge that A.1 was filing a PIL through them to have KSEZ

cancelled while trying to get land from them. Later, LW.6 learnt that

Mr.Bhaskar (A.1) and M.Yeleti Gopala Krishna (A.2) were trying to

get land from KSEZ while using them (LW.6 and others) to file a PIL

to get the KSEZ cancelled. This statement of the witness clearly

speaks A.2, father-in-law of A.1, came to him and taken to A.1, A.1

cause filed the PIL and without even his consent it is cause withdrawn

and when he questioned as it was otherwise going to be dismissed and

with similar facts cause filed through A.3 another PIL and in his name

representations even made for cancellation of PIL without his

knowledge and the endeavour of A.1 is to get land from KSEZ while

using the PIL and to get KSEZ cancelled. It is clearly revealing about
 16 Dr.SSRB, J Crl.R.C.No.3273 of 2017 the attempt to extort KSEZ de facto complainant's entity by A.1 there

from. 15. Now coming to the other statement drawn attention that of

LW.7-Behara Yerram Raju, aged about 74 years, a consultant and

economist, it is his statement that he was writing columns and books

on finance and he is a consultant and economist. He knows the

President of Lok Satha political party for last five years and in

November/December 2014 while he was with him, one person

Chalasani Bhaskar (A.1) got introduced to him through Jayaprada

Devi. A.1 claimed himself operating NGO doing advocacy for

education and later he used to call him regularly and informed about

his business dealings with stressed assets and he also shared about an

issue of GMR and that they are not developing KSEZ even after six

years of their allotment and further added that GMR is ruthlessly

grabbing the lands of farmers with nominal compensation, that the

GMR company is pledging the lands to Banks and getting loans. One

day, A.1 sent few papers of GMR Company and presented it to be on

erroneous side and asked him (LW.7) to address a letter to the

Director of RBI in the public interest. Considering it to be true, LW.7

wrote a e-mail to the RBI Governor that CAG report is against the

GMR and proper investigation is to be done into the KSEZ and GMR

on 31.12.2015. But later, on coming to know by LW.7 about A.1's

role, LW.7 wrote in seeking the land from GMR in the KSEZ and A.1

is making use of LW.7 to get his things done, LW.7 again addressed a
 17 Dr.SSRB, J Crl.R.C.No.3273 of 2017 letter to RBI that the CAG report is beyond his comprehension and

hence RBI may take action as deems fit and before knowing the role

of GMR, LW.7 when asked to be part of PIL against GMR and KSEZ

and on learning the selfish and criminal intentions of A.1, LW.7 has

given up the proposal. LW.7 asked A.1 not to involve into this and

also sent a mail not to use his name anywhere either in his

correspondence or in his reference. After January 2015, LW.7 not in

contact with A.1 and A.1 used to contact LW.7 from his mail ID [email protected] to LW.7's mail ID and the contact also from

A.1's phone No.9866655066 to the phone of LW.7 No.9885296111. 16. From this coming to the charge sheet internal pages 6 to 10, the

investigation from LWs.1 to 7 statements with reference to FSL

expert opinion of LW.10 supra as per charge sheet revealed A.1 in

collusion with A.2 and A.3 supra, who are father-in-law of A.1 and

maternal grand aunt of A.1, subjecting to Kakinada SEZ to criminal

intimidation, commercial compulsion and extortion for allotment of

land by filing PIL against KSEZ, to force it yield to his demands of

land sale, the extent of land and the price dictated by him and LW.10-

FSL expert, has given his opinion, mentioning there are number of

mails [email protected] , [email protected] ,

b [email protected] , [email protected] and messages and

Whatsapp chat from GMR, KSEZ, PIL, BVN Rao, PIL filing on the

KSEZ, GMR scam, Agri Park, etc., found in the seized Laptop and

Mobile of him. A.1/Chalasani Satya Bhaskar of M/s.AVI Natural
 18 Dr.SSRB, J Crl.R.C.No.3273 of 2017 Resources Pvt. Ltd., as per investigation, sought 300 acres of land

from KSEZ on 29.07.2014 though his e-mail ID bhaskar@delta-

aras.com to [email protected] (LW.3) and LW.1 (de

facto complainant) company officials assessed the accused request on

20.08.2014 and communicated that his project would need only 150

acres at maximum, but the accused irrationally sent another e-mail on

the same day that he needs 300 and nothing less. Thus, while seeking

land from KSEZ, a PIL 274 of 2014 was filed on 07.11.2014 in the

name of LW.6-Surayanarayana, Secretary, KSEZ Vyatireka Porata

Samithi with RTI data obtained in the name of A.3-Jayaprada Devi,

maternal grand aunt of A.1, but LW.6 stated that the details of GMR

group and RTI applications were included by A.1 and he had funded

the filing of the PIL. He also mentioned that the PIL was withdrawn

without his consent. Same is referred as covered by the statement of

LW.6 during investigation referred supra. The charge sheet further

speaks e-mail correspondence also reveal that A.1 is in touch with the

Senior designated counsel and advocates on record of the PIL No.274

of 2014 filed against KSEZ and the mails have emanated from his e-

mail id [email protected] to various individuals including the

advocates to the PIL and A.2, father-in-law of A.1, and others. Some

of the mail communications extracted as part of the material covered

by charge sheet from pages 6 to 10, and it shows bhaskar@delta-

aras.com is the e-mail used by A.1 that is also the communication sent

to LW.7, whose statement contains e-mail id referred supra and of
 19 Dr.SSRB, J Crl.R.C.No.3273 of 2017 which with that on 10.09.2014 mail sent to [email protected] saying RTI - 3 separate Vijay to send DC, VSEZ, Ministry of

Commerce, Special Collector, Kakinada and on 18.12.2014 addressed

in his with that e-mail ID to Yerram Raju-LW.7 to address for RBI

letter time to name and shame KSEZ and GMR. Again from that e-

mail ID of A.1 sent e-mail on 23.12.2014 to several including [email protected] besides LW.7-Yerram Raju for signator for PIL

No.2 in showing the PIL he is cause filing and to name Kakinada SEZ

in addressing letters through [email protected] and on 26.11.2014

to those persons and against marking copy to Yerram Raju by saying

additions to PIL after meeting to add and against with that e-mail id of

A.1 on 24.08.2015 besides [email protected] , [email protected] and others in saying including A.2 [email protected] in saying KSEZ revenge-I will not rest until we

get what we want. Thus crystal clear of his attempt to the extortion

from KSEZ. 17. From his e-mail Id supra to [email protected] , belongs

to him of GMR scam and PIL matter to be confidential with regard to

the collected information and from his earlier e-mail id referred supra

on 09.03.2015 with CC to Bhaskar Chalasani, by addressing [email protected] , [email protected] of data of Jayaprada

Devi (A.3) be sent to DL, VSEZ, RBI, Principal Secretary and from

the above e-mail of him to [email protected] , on 03.12.2014 for

printing leaflets against KSEZ and GMR in English 5000 and in
 20 Dr.SSRB, J Crl.R.C.No.3273 of 2017 Telugu 10000 in the name of KSEZ porata Samithi. So it also clearly

shows he cause printed the leaflets and pamphlets in English and

Telugu for vide circulation in the name of LW.6 that is also without

his consent as per the statement of LW.6. Without further reference to

several of the instances covered by charge sheet that is brought to the

notice of the Court of the attempt on the part of A.1 in trying to extort

the KSEZ of the de facto complainant, but for to say the same is not

reproduced in the order of dismissal of the discharge application of

the petitioner/A.1 in Crl.M.P.No.931 of 2017 the order is sustainable

though it is because not reproduced and the statements not drawn

attention, the revision petition of A.2 and A.3 allowed by setting aside

the dismissal discharge order of them. 18. Having regard to the above, for this Court, there are no grounds

to allow the revision petition against the dismissal of the discharge

application, but for left open any defences of the petitioner/A.1 to face

trial. 19. With the above observations, the criminal revision case is

dismissed. Miscellaneous petitions pending, if any, shall stand closed. ____________________________
 Dr. B. SIVA SANKARA RAO, J
31st January 2019

mar