Mr. Janak Dwarkadas, Senior Advocate with Mr. Vinay Chauhan and
Mr.Ankit Lohia, Advocates for Appellant. Mr. Darius J. Khambata, Senior Advocate with
Dr. Mrs. Poornima Advani, Advocate, Ms. Megha Bajoria and Mr. Vikram Deshmukh,
Advocates for the Respondent. CORAM : Justice N.K. Sodhi, Presiding Officer
 Samar Ray, Member

Per : Justice N.K. Sodhi, Presiding Officer

 Whether the Securities and Exchange Board of India (for short the Board) was

right in cancelling the certificate of registration of the appellant as Registrar to an issue

and share transfer agent (RTA) is the short question before us in this appeal. Facts giving

rise to this appeal are these. 2. Parsoli Corporation Ltd. is a public limited company incorporated under the

provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 whose shares are listed on the Bombay Stock

Exchange Limited, Mumbai (BSE). It shall be referred to hereinafter as 'Parsoli'. It 2 carries on the business of a non-banking finance company and is also a stock broker on

the National Stock Exchange of India Limited and BSE. Parsoli is also a depository

participant affiliated with the Central Depository Services (India) Limited providing

depository services to its clients. Every listed company is mandatorily required to have a

share transfer facility either in-house by whatever name called or through an RTA.

Parsoli opted to avail the services of an RTA for handling the share transfer work. RTAs

are intermediaries of the securities market registered with the Board under the Securities

and Exchange Board of India (Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents)

Regulations, 1993 (hereinafter called 'the Regulations'). On April 25, 2003 Parsoli

entered into an agreement with Pinnacle Shares Registry Pvt. Ltd., the appellant herein

and appointed the latter as its share transfer agent to handle the share transfer work, both

physical and electronic. The appellant had been registered as an RTA with the Board on

12.3.2003 and it undertook to perform and fulfill the functions, duties and obligations as

a share transfer agent and to provide such other services as mentioned in the agreement.

Every share transfer agent is required at all times to abide by the code of conduct as

specified in Schedule III to the Regulations. A share transfer agent is required to ensure

that enquiries from investors are adequately dealt with, grievances of investors are

redressed without delay and transfer of securities held in physical form and confirmation

of dematerialization / rematerialization requests is done within the time specified by law.

It is also the requirement of the code of conduct that an RTA should make reasonable

efforts to avoid misrepresentation and ensure that information provided to the investors is

not misleading. An RTA is required not to reject the dematerialization / rematerialization

requests on flimsy grounds and that such requests could be rejected only on valid and

proper grounds supported by relevant documents. An RTA is expected to maintain an

arms length distance from the body corporate on whose behalf it acts as an RTA and is

required to exercise due diligence and ensure proper care. The two basic qualifications of

an RTA needed for the purpose are (a) they should work in an ethical and professional

manner and (b) in the performance of their duties, they should not only be prompt but

also show high standards of integrity and independence of judgment. This apart, a share

transfer agent is also required to maintain records of holders of securities of such body 3 corporate on whose behalf he is carrying on the activities as share transfer agent and is

required to deal with all maters connected with the transfer and redemption of its

securities. It is required to maintain the names of transferor and transferee and the dates

of transfer of securities and such other records as may be specified by the Board for

carrying out the activities as share transfer agent. The Board in exercise of its powers

under section 11 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (for short the

Act) read with Regulation 14(3)(c) of the Regulations issued a circular dated 11.10.1994

requiring all share transfer agents to maintain, among others, specimen signature

cards and transfer deeds. In compliance with these statutory provisions, the agreement

executed between Parsoli and the appellant contains the following clause: (emphasis supplied) 3. On receipt of complaints from the shareholders of Parsoli about the rejection of

their dematerialization / share transfer requests, the Board conducted an inspection of the

records of the appellant in June and July, 2008 to look into the role played by the

appellant as RTA to Parsoli. The Board found that the appellant committed several

irregularities while handling the share transfer work and that it aided and abetted Parsoli

in the fraudulent transfer of physical shares from various investors' accounts by using

transfer deeds containing forged signatures of investors. The inspection revealed that all

fraudulent transfers took place in off-market trades from various investor accounts to the

accounts which were in the names of persons either belonging to the promoter group of

Parsoli or the front entities of the promoters and that such transfers were approved by a

transfer committee consisting of the representatives of the promoters of Parsoli. Further,

there were instances of delay in dematerialization and improper rejection of the 4 dematerialization requests made by the investors and this, according to the Board, was

violative of the code of conduct prescribed for RTAs under the Regulations. Accordingly,

a notice dated May 4, 2009 was issued to the appellant under Regulation 28 of the

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008 (for short

Intermediary Regulations) for the alleged fraudulent acts in dematerialization, delay, non-

transfer of shares and issuance of duplicate share certificates of Parsoli. It was alleged

that the appellant had violated the code of conduct and also Regulations 53A and 54(5) of

the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Depositories and Participants) Regulations,

1996, the provisions of Regulations 3 and 4 of the Securities and Exchange Board of

India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices Relating to Securities

Market) Regulations, 2003 (FUTP Regulations) and the Board's circular dated

December 27, 2002. It was further alleged that the appellant had functioned as a share

transfer agent without taking possession of the specimen signature cards which are

essential for the purpose of transfer of securities and that it failed to maintain statutory

records. It was also pointed out in the show cause notice that the appellant on the basis of

a letter from Parsoli had rejected the requests of the investors for dematerialization on the

ground that the shares already stood dematted whereas the investors were given a

different reason that the duplicates had already been issued. It was further alleged that

even though Parsoli was informing the investors through letters marked to the appellant

that certificates had already been dematted, it nevertheless gave credit in the demat

account of the investors by off-market credit of shares for which the appellant did not

raise any objection thereby violating clause 7 of the code of conduct. Another allegation

made in the show cause notice is that the certificate numbers mentioned in the demat

request forms and the numbers on the transfer deeds used for fraudulent transfers were

the same in many cases implying that no duplicate certificates had been issued and since

the appellant had admitted that it did not verify the antecedents of the share certificates

sent for transfer by the investors, it failed to exercise care and due diligence before

rejecting the demat requests. The appellant is also alleged to have transferred shares into

the accounts held in the names of promoter group and their entities without following the

procedure for such transfers and that it dematerialized shares even when the signatures on 5 the demat request forms were not tallying with those on the transfer deeds or even when

the transfer deeds were without signatures. The appellant is also said to have delayed the

process of the demat requests of the investors beyond 15 days prescribed by law. A copy

of the inspection report was enclosed with the show cause notice and the appellant was

called upon to show cause why its certificate of registration be not suspended or

cancelled. The appellant filed its reply on May 28, 2009 denying and refuting all the

allegations. The enquiry officer conducted an enquiry and after giving the appellant

sufficient opportunity of being heard submitted his report on July 1, 2009 holding the

appellant guilty of the charges levelled against it. He recommended that a penalty of

prohibiting the appellant from taking up any new assignment or contract for a period of

3 years may be considered in terms of Regulation 28(iii) of the Intermediary Regulations.

On receipt of the report from the enquiry officer (designated authority), the whole time

member (designated member) issued a show cause notice on the same day and sent a

copy of the enquiry report along with it calling upon the appellant to show cause why

action be not taken against it as recommended by the enquiry officer for the

irregularities/illegalities committed by it while functioning as an RTA. The appellant

filed its reply on July 24, 2009 denying all the allegations once again. Thereafter a

supplementary show cause notice dated September 16, 2009 was issued to the appellant

pointing out that the designated member having considered the findings of the designated

authority was of the view that in the light of the serious allegations having been

established in the enquiry report, a higher penalty was called for including the

cancellation of the certificate of registration. Accordingly, the appellant was called upon

to show cause why a higher penalty be not imposed on it. The appellant filed its reply on

September 23, 2009 and after considering the same and the enquiry report including the

inspection report and other material on the record, the designated member by his order

dated October 14, 2009 cancelled the certificate of registration of the appellant as RTA

with effect from February 28, 2010 with a further direction that during the intervening

period the appellant shall not take on new clients in its business. The appellant was also

directed to wind up its business as RTA and its clients were required to make alternative 6 arrangements to avail the services of other RTAs. It is against this order that the present

appeal has been filed under Section 15T of the Act. 4. We have heard the learned senior counsel on both sides. 5. What is contended by Shri Janak Dwarkadas, learned senior counsel for the

appellant is that all the allegations made against the appellant as an RTA are linked to the

fraud allegedly committed by the promoter group of Parsoli and its front entities and that

the appellant is said to have aided and abetted Parsoli and its promoters in the

commitment of the alleged fraud and that till such time the fraud against the principal

offender(s) is established, the certificate of registration of the appellant could not be

cancelled. It is also argued by the learned senior counsel that the findings recorded in the

impugned order to the effect that the cancellation of the certificate of registration of the

appellant could be justified independently of the alleged fraud committed by Parsoli and

its promoters goes beyond the show cause notice as all the allegations made in the show

cause notice are linked to the alleged fraud committed by Parsoli and its promoters.

According to the learned senior counsel for the appellant, the only charge levelled against

the appellant which is not linked with the fraud is the delay in processing the demat

requests from the investors. It is argued that the Board could point out only 10 instances

of delay beyond the prescribed period of 15 days in processing the requests for

dematerialization and even if it be argued that there was delay in the instances pointed

out, the appellant could, at the most, be held to be negligent which would not justify the

cancellation of its certificate of registration. We have given our thoughtful consideration

to the arguments of Shri Janak Dwarkadas, Senior Advocate but have not been able to

persuade ourselves to agree with him for the reasons that follow hereafter. It is common

case of the parties that proceedings against Parsoli and its promoters are still pending and

findings regarding fraud played by them have yet to be recorded. We would have agreed

with the learned senior counsel for the appellant that the certificate of registration of the

appellant should not have been cancelled till the findings of fraud against the principal

offender(s) were established if it was the appellant's case that no fraud had been

committed when the shares were transferred. However, in this appeal it is the appellant's 7 own case that Parsoli and its promoters and their front entities had played fraud in

transferring the shares of genuine shareholders to their own accounts on the basis of

transfer deeds containing forged signatures or no signatures though it says it had no role

to play in that fraud. This was also the case of the appellant before the whole time

member. When the appellant admits that Parsoli and its promoters had played fraud in

transferring the shares, the only question that needs to be examined is whether the

appellant had aided and abetted the principal offenders in the commitment of the fraud as

alleged in the show cause notice. This is what the appellant has stated in the

memorandum of appeal. ............................" Having admitted that Parsoli and its promoters and their front entities had defrauded the

genuine shareholders, the appellant cannot argue that its certificate of registration should

not be cancelled till such time the case against Parsoli and its promoters is decided. Since

fraud is now an admitted fact in this case, we have only to examine the appellant's role in

perpetrating the fraud or in aiding and abetting Parsoli and its promoters/front entities in

the commitment of that fraud. 6. It is not in dispute that in about 450 cases, the shares of genuine shareholders had

been fraudulently transferred to individuals belonging to the promoter group of Parsoli or

to their front entities on the basis of transfer deeds containing forged signatures or no

signatures. The case of the appellant is that it was not aware that the transfer deeds

forwarded to it contained signatures forged by the promoters of Parsoli and that it

processed the transfer requests in the ordinary course of its business relying on the

signature confirmation by Parsoli. It is also the appellant's case that it was never handed

over the specimen signature cards which were at all times with Parsoli as they were in

torn condition and that it used to process the transfer requests only after receiving the

confirmation regarding signature verification from Parsoli. In the facts and circumstances

of this case, we are not believing the version of the appellant but even if we were to

assume it to be true, the impugned order cancelling its certificate of registration deserves

to be upheld. It was in April, 2003 that the appellant entered into an agreement with

Parsoli to act as its RTA and it was its primary duty to obtain all the statutory records

including the specimen signature cards and transfer deeds before commencing its share

transfer activity as RTA. Since it failed to obtain the necessary records, it violated the

mandatory directions issued by the Board to all RTA's through its circular dated

11.10.1994. There was an obligation on the part of Parsoli as well to transfer all the

necessary records to the appellant and if, for any reason, the former failed to perform its

part of the duty under the agreement, the appellant should not have commenced its

business as RTA. The conduct of the appellant leaves much to be desired and does not

inspire confidence to believe its version that it was unaware that the transfer deeds

contained forged signatures. It merrily continued transferring the shares on the bidding of 9 Parsoli without making any attempt to obtain the specimen signature cards, the most vital

document necessary for share transfer. It is like a bank which encashes the cheques of the

drawer without verifying his signatures on the ground that it was not in possession of the

signature verification cards. Should such a bank be allowed to continue even for a

moment? Obviously not. Same is the case with an RTA whose primary duty is share

transfer work after verifying the signatures of the transferors. It is the appellant's case

that it was processing the share transfer requests in the ordinary course of its business

after obtaining the signature verification from Parsoli. On its own showing, the appellant

had abdicated its primary duty of signature verification to Parsoli. It was strenuously

argued by its learned senior counsel that the shares were being transferred by the

appellant in the ordinary course of its business. We cannot agree with the learned senior

counsel in this regard. The least which the ordinary course of business of an RTA

demands is verification of signatures at its own end after comparing the same with the

signature verification cards. Since this basic function was not performed, we are satisfied

that the appellant rendered itself unfit to operate as an RTA. In this view of the matter,

we cannot but hold that the appellant failed to exercise due diligence and independence of

professional judgment which it was required to exercise at all times in the conduct of its

business as an RTA. 7. Apart from not exercising due diligence and independence of judgment, it is

reasonable to infer that the appellant was aiding and abetting Parsoli in the fraudulent

transfer of shares. It was after more than two years that the appellant for the first time by

its letter dated 4.6.2005 made a tentative attempt, if at all it could be described as an

attempt, to obtain the signature records from Parsoli. It is amusing to note what the

appellant stated in this letter. You will please agree that when signature is verified at your
 end, we cannot prepare Rejection Memo for signature
 mismatch, on our letter-head. 4) ........................................................................ 5) ........................................................................ 11 6) Handover of Signature Records: In case if you would like to handover the records, please
 contact our Shri Girish M. Patel, Dy. General Manager." (emphasis supplied)

It is clear from the text of the letter that the most vital part of the share transfer activity

had been left by the appellant to Parsoli and the request made in the letter is that in case

the latter would like to handover the records, it could contact the representative of the

appellant. We are satisfied from the tenor of the letter that the appellant had no intention

of getting the signature records from Parsoli and it was happy transferring the shares

blindly at its behest. It is further clear that this letter, too, would not have been written but

for the intervention of the two depositories who seem to be then creating some problems

for the appellant in the absence of signature records and the delay caused in

dematerializing the shares. Parsoli for the first time, in response to the aforesaid letter,

informed the appellant on August 16, 2005 that the signature records of the company

were in torn condition and not properly maintained and for that reason they could not be

handed over. The matter was allowed to be rested there and was never brought to the

notice of the Board and the appellant went on transferring the shares without verifying

itself the signatures of the transferors. It is, thus, clear that the appellant came to know

that the signature records were in torn condition only in August, 2005 and without taking

any steps before or after this date went on happily transferring the shares without

verifying the signatures itself. The appellant not only abdicated its primary duty of

signature verification to Parsoli but in this process shares were being transferred

fraudulently without any let or hindrance. This can only lead us to infer that the appellant

and Parsoli were acting hand in glove while fraudulently transferring the shares of

genuine investors in the accounts of the promoters of Parsoli and their front entities. We

are also satisfied that in the process, the appellant as an RTA failed to maintain even

minimum standard of integrity let alone high standards of integrity in the matter of

performing its vital share transfer functions. 8. There is yet another reason for us to hold that the appellant connived with Parsoli

in fraudulently transferring the shares of genuine shareholders to the individual accounts 12 of promoters of Parsoli and their front entities. There are a number of instances where the

requests for dematerialization from the genuine shareholders had been rejected by the

appellant for the reason "signature mismatch" when those shares had already been

transferred by the appellant to the individual accounts of third parties who were no other

than the promoters of Parsoli or their front entities. If the appellant was acting bonafide, it

should have informed the investors that the shares had already been transferred to third

parties and could not be dematerialized. Instead of adopting this course, the appellant sent

the requests for dematerialization to Parsoli for the verification of signatures and on

receipt of information from the latter that there was mismatch of signatures, the appellant

informed the investors accordingly. These instances have been referred to in para 12 of

the impugned order which could not be seriously disputed. We may take note of one such

instance briefly. One Arbab Ahmed Bharuchi held 1500 shares of Parsoli and his request

for dematerialization made on July 14, 2005 was rejected by the appellant on

August 17, 2005 on the ground of "signature mismatch". However, his shares had already

been fraudulently transferred around July 19, 2005 by the appellant to the account of

Talha Sareshwala, a promoter of Parsoli and those shares had been dematerialized on

August 13, 2005. Even if one were to assume that the request for dematerialization was

directly sent by the DP to Parsoli, the appellant knew that the shares had already been

transferred to a third party and, therefore, it had no business to inform the genuine

shareholder that his request was being rejected on the ground of "signature mismatch". It

is a clear case of misrepresentation to the genuine shareholder for which the blame must

rest with the appellant as RTA. Same is the position in the case of another genuine

investor namely, Javed Sonalkar. The impugned order takes note of quite a few other

instances which could not be disputed and we are pained to note that a large number of

genuine and innocent shareholders were deprived of their investments only for the fraud

played on them by Parsoli and the appellant. This false representation made by the

appellant to the genuine shareholders clearly shows its collusion with Parsoli. We are in

agreement with the whole time member that an RTA who is an interface between the

shareholder and the company should, at the very least, ensure that no injustice is 13 perpetrated on the genuine shareholders and that the appellant miserably failed in

achieving this primary goal. 9. We may now notice another interesting feature of the case. When quite a few

genuine shareholders approached the appellant for dematerializing their shares, they were

compensated by Parsoli by making off-market transfer of shares to their accounts from

individuals related to Parsoli and their front entities. The appellant was aware of this

unusual and strange act of Parsoli in compensating the shareholders who were about 250

in number from whom the shares had earlier been fraudulently transferred by its

promoters. As an RTA, the appellant should have sought an explanation / verification

from Parsoli but it remained passively silent. This also indicates its complicity with

Parsoli. 10. There are other instances where the appellant rejected the request for

dematerialization on a ground totally different from the one conveyed to it by Parsoli.

Many requests of investors for dematerialization had been rejected by Parsoli and it

conveyed to the appellant for onward communication to the investors that "Certificate

received is already stands dematted in our system. Please contact company for further

details". The appellant, however, informed the investors a different reason stating that

"the certificate submitted by the investors are those for which the duplicates have already

been issued". The appellant as RTA had records with it to show that no duplicate

certificates had been issued and yet it communicated a wrong reason to the investors

thereby acting to their detriment. The details of some of these instances have been

referred to in para 30 of the impugned order and these were not seriously disputed before

us. This conduct of the appellant is by itself fraudulent within the meaning of the FUTP

Regulations for which the Board was justified in cancelling its certificate of registration. 11. There was also delay on the part of the appellant in dematerializing the shares of

the investors. The Board has cited 10 instances where the delay ranged from 47 days to

257 days. The fact that there was delay in dematerializing the shares of some of the

investors has not been disputed by the appellant. It is also not in dispute that the request

for dematerialization is required to be processed within 15 days from the date of its 14 receipt. However, the appellant is putting the blame for the delay on Parsoli and states

that in the interest of investors it was following up with Parsoli to get the signature

confirmation at the earliest and that on receipt of such confirmation, it used to process the

requests promptly. It further states that the delay in processing the requests was due to

non-processing by Parsoli within the stipulated time. We cannot accept this explanation.

The duty to process the requests for dematerialization within the stipulated period of 15

days solely rests with the RTA and it cannot be heard to say that the body corporate for

which it was acting was causing delay in the processing. As already observed, it was the

duty of the appellant as RTA to verify at its own end the signatures of the investors and

ensure that there was no delay in processing the requests for dematerialization as they

adversely affect the investors. The blame for the delay has to be borne by the appellant. 12. We may also notice another ground urged before us on behalf of the appellant. It

is argued that the whole time member was not justified in issuing the supplementary

show cause notice only to enhance the penalty as recommended by the enquiry officer.

We do not find any merit in this argument. As already noticed, the enquiry officer in his

report dated July 1, 2009 had recommended that the appellant be prohibited from taking

up any new assignment or contract for a period of three years. It appears that on receipt

of this report a show cause notice was issued to the appellant on the same day and

thereafter the whole time member realised that in view of the gravity of the charges

established against the appellant a higher penalty including cancellation of certificate of

registration was called for. Hence he issued a supplementary show cause notice. We do

not think that the appellant was prejudiced in any way and there is nothing wrong with

this course of action. The original notice issued on May 4, 2009 did call upon the

appellant to show cause why its certificate of registration be not cancelled. The procedure

adopted was in accordance with Regulation 28 of the Intermediary Regulations and the

supplementary show cause notice was justified on the ground that the charges established

against the appellant in the enquiry report were extremely serious in nature. 13. We may now notice the argument of the learned senior counsel for the appellant

regarding penalty. It was pointed out that the appellant has an impeccable track record 15 and that it is acting as an RTA for 120 companies managing close to 9.5 lac ledger folios.

It is further stated on behalf of the appellant that it successfully handled 58 public issues

and 16 rights issues and 10 open offers and that it made no gain from the alleged

fraudulent transfers for which action has now been taken. On this basis it is argued that

the extreme penalty of cancellation of certificate of registration is not justified and that it

is disproportionate to the charges established against the appellant. According to the

appellant, it is, at the most, guilty of negligence. It is contended that some lesser penalty

could be imposed in the circumstances of the case. We cannot accept these submissions.

All that is now being urged before us does not mitigate against the serious charges

established against the appellant. It has not only aided and abetted Parsoli in fraudulently

transferring the shares of the genuine investors as aforesaid but also failed in discharging

its primary duties as a share transfer agent. Earlier the appellant goes out of the market

the better it would be for preserving its integrity and safeguarding the interests of the

investors. We do not think that any penalty less than cancellation of its certificate of

registration would meet the ends of justice. 14. In view of the above, we have no hesitation in holding that the appellant by not

maintaining the statutory records for the share registry and transfer work aided and

abetted Parsoli in fraudulently transferring the shares of genuine investors to the accounts

of the promoters of Parsoli and their front entities. This grave misdemeanour has been

further compounded by the fact that the appellant gave false and misleading reasons to

the genuine shareholders for rejecting their dematerialization requests and also for

causing delay in processing such requests. We are, therefore, satisfied that all the charges

levelled against the appellant stand established and that it has flagrantly violated the code

of conduct. However, even if we ignore the nexus of the appellant with the alleged frauds

committed by Parsoli and its promoters/front entities in transferring the shares of the

genuine investors in their own individual accounts, the other glaring acts of commission

and omission as noticed above would by themselves justify the cancellation of the

certificate of registration of the appellant as an RTA. As already observed, the appellant

had abdicated its primary function of signature verification to Parsoli and by not

maintaining the statutory records it failed to perform the duties assigned to it by the 16 Regulations thereby betraying the trust and confidence reposed in it as an RTA. This

apart, the appellant had been misleading the genuine investors time and again which is a

serious breach of its code of conduct. We cannot resist observing that entities like the

appellant should have no place in the securities market as they pose a serious threat

thereto and cannot be trusted to safeguard the interests of investors which are paramount.

No fault can, thus, be found with the impugned order. 15. Before concluding, we may observe that proceedings against Parsoli and its

promoters are still pending and we fail to understand why the same could not be

concluded before or atleast alongwith the proceedings against the appellant. That would

have been a better course to adopt. However, we make it clear that all that has been said

in our order is only for the purposes of disposing of the present appeal on the basis of the

submissions made by the appellant and that nothing stated hereinabove shall prejudice the

case of Parsoli or its promoters. We further make it clear that the Board shall proceed to

decide the case against Parsoli and its promoters on its own merits without being

influenced by any observation made hereinabove. In the result, we answer the question posed in the opening part of our order in the

affirmative and dismiss the appeal with no order as to costs. Sd/- Justice N. K. Sodhi
 Presiding Officer

 Sd/- Samar Ray
 Member

30.4.2010
Prepared and compared by: