The appellant herein has challenged the judgment and order
dated 12-12-2003 passed by the Court of Additional District and Sessions
Judge, Pusad (trial Court) in Special Case No.4 of 2000, whereby the
appellant was convicted under Sections 7 and 13 (1)(d) read with Section
13(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 [for short, 'the Act of 1988']
and he was sentenced to suffer rigorous imprisonment for six months and ::: Uploaded on - 26/06/2018 ::: Downloaded on - 27/06/2018 00:42:31 ::: 2 210618 apeal 758.03 judg.odt 

one year and six months on the two counts and also to pay fine of
Rs. 500/- each for the said convictions. During the pendency of this
appeal, the appellant died, due to which the appeal abated but, by order
dated 15-02-2010, the abatement was set aside and the son of the
deceased appellant was permitted to prosecute this appeal. Accordingly,
this appeal is listed for final hearing before this Court. 2] The prosecution case in brief was that the accused (deceased
appellant) was working as Junior Clerk in Upper Painganga Project,
Sub-Division No.3, Isapur, where the complainant (PW-1) Ganpat Kasture
was working as a Fitter. It was the case of the complainant that he
required a loan from his General Provident Fund (GPF) account as his wife
was ill and that for the said purpose he had submitted an application in the
first week of February, 2000. He had requested for a loan of Rs. 15,000/-.
It was the case of the complainant that he went to meet the accused on
27-02-2000, to enquire about the fate of his loan application. The accused
demanded a sum of Rs. 200/- so that the accused could get the
application of the applicant approved from the Divisional Office. When the
complainant showed his inability to pay the said amount, the accused
allegedly insisted and demanded the said amount of Rs. 200/-.
Thereafter, on 06-03-2000, the complainant (PW-1) allegedly again met
the accused and made enquiry about his loan application. When the
accused again asked for money, the complainant said that he would bring
the money on the next day. 3] As the complainant (PW-1) was not willing to give the
aforesaid amount towards illegal gratification to the accused, on ::: Uploaded on - 26/06/2018 ::: Downloaded on - 27/06/2018 00:42:31 ::: 3 210618 apeal 758.03 judg.odt 

07-03-2000, he visited the office of the Anti Corruption Bureau (A.C.B.) at
Yavatmal and submitted the written complaint (Exhibit-9) to the concerned
officer of the A.C.B. office. On the basis of the complaint, preparations
were made for apprehending the accused red handed by laying a trap.
The currency notes for the aforesaid amounts of illegal gratification were
smeared with Phenolphthalein powder and other preparations for executing
the trap were undertaken. One Anil Ghode was to accompany the
complainant (PW-1) at the time of execution of trap. The said Anil Ghode
was the shadow witness (PW-2). It was the case of the prosecution that
the said trap was executed in the office of the accused on 07-03-2000 in
the evening and that when the complainant (PW-1) accompanied by the
shadow witness (PW-2) visited the office of the accused, as the
complainant (PW-1) made enquiry about his loan application, the accused
made the aforesaid demand of Rs. 200/- which PW-1 paid to the accused
in the presence of shadow witness (PW-2). Upon pre decided signal
being given by the complainant (PW-1), raiding party of the A.C.B.
immediately reached the spot and apprehended the accused. Thereafter,
the post trap panchanama was prepared and on the basis of aforesaid
material, First Information Report was registered against the accused and
he was prosecuted for having committed offences under the provisions of
the Act of 1988. 4] In order to prove its case, the prosecution examined seven
witnesses. (PW-1) was the complainant, (PW-2) was the shadow witness,
(PW-3) was the sanctioning Authority since the accused was a public
servant, (PW-4) was a person who maintained the Outward and Inward
Register at the office of the Upper Painganga Project, Sub-Division No.3, ::: Uploaded on - 26/06/2018 ::: Downloaded on - 27/06/2018 00:42:31 ::: 4 210618 apeal 758.03 judg.odt 

(PW-5) was the Assistant Engineer of the said project, (PW-6) was the
Investigating Officer and (PW-7) was a Police Constable who had carried
the material pertaining to the execution of trap for analysis. 5] In his defence, the accused examined a defence witness viz;
Sheikh Muzamil Sheikh Mustafa, another Fitter who was working in the
same office. On the basis of the evidence of the prosecution witnesses, it
was claimed by the prosecution that the case against the accused had
been proved beyond reasonable doubt while the accused contended
before the trial Court that there was no demand of illegal gratification on
his part and that the amount of Rs. 200/- in question pertained to charges
required for binding of service book of the complainant and that this aspect
was proved by the evidence of defence witness. But, on the basis of the
evidence and material on record, the trial Court came to the conclusion that
the case against the accused was proved beyond reasonable doubt. In
fact, the trial Court held that the accused had failed to rebut the
presumption that operated against him under Section 20 of the Act of
1988. It was found that even if the accused, as a Junior Clerk, could
have had no power or authority to grant or refuse the loan application of
the complainant, the demand of illegal gratification had been proved and
when the acceptance of the said currency notes pertaining to illegal
gratification was indeed proved by sufficient evidence and material on
record, the presumption operated against the accused which was not
rebutted and that therefore, the accused deserved to be convicted and
sentenced in the aforesaid manner. 5 210618 apeal 758.03 judg.odt 

6] Heard Counsel for the parties. Shri S.G. Loney, learned
Counsel appearing on behalf of the accused (deceased appellant)
submitted that there was material difference between the evidence of the
complainant (PW-1) and the shadow witness (PW-2) as regards the
manner in which the accused interacted with the complainant at the time
when the trap was executed. It was submitted that the evidence of the
shadow witness (PW-2) did not corroborate that of the complainant (PW-1)
on material aspects and that therefore, the accused could not have been
convicted for offences under the Act of 1988. It was pointed out that the
complainant (PW-1) himself had voluntarily stated in his cross examination
that he was Secretary of the Workers Union in the concerned office. This
demonstrated that he was not a poor labour who was not aware about the
manner in which loan applications were processed or about the extent of
power and authority of the accused who was merely a Junior Clerk. It was
contended that the presumption under Section 20 of the Act of 1988 was
rebuttable and that said rebuttal was to be demonstrated on
preponderance of probabilities on behalf of the accused and that sufficient
material was placed on record to rebut the presumption in the present
case. It was pointed out that even in the statement of accused recorded
under Section 313 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, the accused
had clearly stated that the amount of Rs. 200/- in the present case was
received by him in connection with the charges for binding of service book
of the complainant (PW-1) and that there was indeed such a practice of
binding of service book, which was brought on record by way of examining
the defence witness. It was submitted that in the first place the prosecution
had failed to prove demand of illegal gratification by the accused, which
was a sine qua non and secondly that the accused had placed on record ::: Uploaded on - 26/06/2018 ::: Downloaded on - 27/06/2018 00:42:31 ::: 6 210618 apeal 758.03 judg.odt 

sufficient material to rebut the presumption under Section 20 of the Act of
1988, if at all it operated in the facts and circumstances of the present
case. The learned Counsel placed reliance on the judgments of the
Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Pannalal Damodar Rathi vs
State of Maharashtra , reported at ( 1979) 4 SCC 526, State of Kerala
and another vs C.P. Rao , reported at (2011) 6 SCC 450, P.
Satyanarayana Murthy vs District Inspector of Police, State of
Andhra Pradesh and another, reported at (2015) 10 SCC 152, Mukhtiar
Singh (since deceased through his L.R. vs State of Punjab , reported at
2017( 7) Scale 702, Suraj Mal vs State (Delhi Administration ), reported
at ( 1979) 4 SCC 725 and C.M. Girish Babu vs CBI, Cochin, High Court of Kerala, reported at (2009) 3 SCC 779. 7] In addition, the learned Counsel further relied upon a recent
judgment of this Court in the case of Baban s/o Jaisingh Rathod thr Lrs.
Vs State passed in Criminal Appeal No.784 of 2008. 8] Per contra, Shri Vishal Gangane, learned APP appearing on
behalf of the State submitted that even if there was some difference in the
evidence of the complainant (PW-1) and the shadow witness (PW-2)
pertaining to the manner in which the demand of illegal gratification was
made by the accused in the present case, it was not a major discrepancy
and that it did not adversely affect the prosecution case. It was further
submitted that although it had come on record that the complainant
(PW-1) was the Secretary of the Workers Union, there was nothing to
support the suggestion made on behalf of the defence that there was
certain animosity between the accused and the complainant (PW-1) as ::: Uploaded on - 26/06/2018 ::: Downloaded on - 27/06/2018 00:42:31 ::: 7 210618 apeal 758.03 judg.odt 

being Secretary of the Workers Union, he was seeking transfer of the
accused from the post occupied by him. It was submitted that merely
because the accused was not the person having the power or authority to
grant or refuse a loan, the prosecution case could not be discarded. It was
further submitted that the defence witness was not believable because he
merely stated about alleged prevailing practice of binding of service book
and charges collected by the accused for the same and that there was no
supporting material placed on record by the defence for such a theory to
be accepted. It was submitted that when demand of illegal gratification
and acceptance of the same was proved beyond reasonable doubt
against the accused, the presumption under Section 20 of the Act of 1988
operated in full force and therefore, the conviction and sentence imposed
by the trial Court was justified. 9] It is no doubt true that once acceptance of tainted currency
notes, as in the present case, stands proved, presumption under Section
20 of the Act of 1988 does operate against the accused. But, no
presumption can be absolute and every presumption is rebuttable. A
presumption can be rebutted upon the accused placing on record
sufficient material to prove his defence on a preponderance of probabilities.
Therefore, even if the prosecution in the present case was successful in
proving that the accused had indeed accepted the tainted currency notes, it
would still have to be examined whether there has been sufficient material
shown that the said amount was towards illegal gratification and that the
accused had indeed made demand in respect thereof. 8 210618 apeal 758.03 judg.odt 

10] The learned Counsel appearing for the accused (deceased
appellant) has placed reliance on the judgments of the Hon'ble Supreme
Court to contend that if there was material variance in the evidence of
complainant and the shadow witness as regards the demand of illegal
gratification, it must lead to the conclusion that the foundational fact of
demand was not proved by the prosecution and that therefore, it would be
unsafe to convict an accused charged with offences under the provisions
of the Act of 1988. In this context, it would be appropriate to refer the
observations made by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Mukhtiar
Singh (supra), which reads as follows :- 9 210618 apeal 758.03 judg.odt 

 proof of demand for illegal gratification, the use of corrupt or
 illegal means or abuse of position as a public servant to obtain
 any valuable thing or pecuniary advantage cannot be held to
 be proved. Not only the proof of demand thus was held to be
 an indispensable essentiality and an inflexible statutory
 mandate for an offence under Sections 7 and 13 of the Act, it
 was held as well qua Section 20 of the Act, that any
 presumption thereunder would arise only on such proof of
 demand. This Court thus in P. Satyanarayana Murthy (supra)
 on a survey of its earlier decisions on the pre-requisites of Sections 7 and 13 and the proof thereof summed up its
 conclusions as hereunder: (emphasis supplied)" 10 210618 apeal 758.03 judg.odt 

accused until it is proved with cogent evidence on record that the demand
of money was towards illegal gratification. In order that such a proof is
placed on record by the prosecution, the evidence of the complainant and
shadow witness assumes significance. If there is variance in the versions
given by the complainant and the shadow witness, it would be unsafe to
accept that the demand of money was a demand of money pertaining to
illegal gratification. Therefore, it is necessary that the evidence of the
complainant is corroborated by that of the shadow witness and other
evidence and material on record. In this regard, the learned Counsel
appearing on behalf of the accused (deceased appellant) is justified in
relying upon the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Pannalal Rathi (supra). 12] In this backdrop, it would be necessary to examine as to
whether in the present case the prosecution was able to place on record
sufficient material to prove that the amount found in the hands of the
accused came to him in pursuance of a demand for illegal gratification. A
perusal of the evidence of the complainant (PW-1) shows that he has
described the manner in which the accused made demand and accepted
the amount of Rs. 200/- when the trap was executed on 07-03-2000. The
complainant (PW-1) has stated in the evidence as follows :- 11 210618 apeal 758.03 judg.odt 

 table on a bench. I asked the accused if he has brought
 my G.P.F. bill after getting approved. He told me that he
 had not brought the bill. He told me that I should give
 him Rs. 200/- and he would go and bring my G.P.F. bill
 getting it approved. I took out the bribe money with my
 right hand from my left pocket of the shirt, and hold them
 before the accused. The accused took that money and
 kept in the pocket of his shirt. He took them by right
 hand. I came out, I unfolded the sleeves of my right hand
 by my left hand and raised that hand, and gave signal." 13] As against this, the shadow witness (PW-2) has described the
same sequence of events as follows :- The other members of raiding party were following us.
 The accused was not in his office. We waited for the
 accused. After sometime the accused came. The
 P.W.1 Ganpat told me about the accused. The
 accused sat in his chair. We sat before him on a
 bench. The P.W.1 Ganpat then asked the accused
 about what has happened to his G.P.F. The accused
 said that something is required to be given for work.
 The accused said if he has brought the money as said
 yesterday. P.W. 1 Ganpat said yes. P.W.1 Ganpat took
 out money from his left pocket of his shirt and gave it to
 the accused. The accused took it by right hand and
 kept it in his shirt pocket. P.W.1 Ganpat went outside
 the office. I stood there." 14] A perusal of the above quoted two versions of the same
sequence of events by the complainant (PW-1) and the shadow witness
(PW-2) shows that while the complainant has stated that the accused told ::: Uploaded on - 26/06/2018 ::: Downloaded on - 27/06/2018 00:42:32 ::: 12 210618 apeal 758.03 judg.odt 

him that he had not brought his GPF bill and he told the complainant that
he should give Rs. 200/- and he would go and bring the GPF bill after
getting it approved the shadow witness (PW-2) has stated that upon the
complainant asking the accused about what had happened to his GPF, the
accused had said something was required to be given for the work and
the accused asked if the complainant had brought the money as said
yesterday. The shadow witness (PW-2) did not mention the figure of
Rs. 200/-. There is a clear difference in the two versions, particularly when
the shadow witness (PW-2) was in no way concerned with the alleged
demand made by the accused on the earlier day i.e. 06-03-2000 when only
the complainant (PW-1) and accused were present. Since there is no
corroboration of the first demand alleged to have been made on
06-08-2000, it became all the more necessary that there was corroboration
as regards the demand made on the day when the trap was executed.
There ought to be unimpeachable evidence on the date of execution of the
trap to corroborate the claim made by the complainant with particular
reference to demand being made of illegal gratification. Mere reference to
money or query made in that regard would not amount to corroboration of
the case of the prosecution. 15] The above difference in the versions given by the complainant
(PW-1) and the shadow witness (PW-2) becomes all the more significant
when the defence of the accused is appreciated. The defence of the
accused in the present case was that although he had accepted the
aforesaid amount of Rs. 200/- from the complainant (PW-1), it was towards
charges for binding of service book, which was a practice prevalent in the
office. In this regard, the defence witness Sheikh Muzamil Sheikh ::: Uploaded on - 26/06/2018 ::: Downloaded on - 27/06/2018 00:42:32 ::: 13 210618 apeal 758.03 judg.odt 

Mustafa, a fitter working in the same office, was also examined in support
of the defence of accused. This witness stated about the fact that such
practice was prevalent and that he and other employees of the office
including the complainant had got their service books bound. It was very
much stated in the evidence about charges for binding of service book, as
contended on behalf of the accused. In the cross examination of this
witness, there is nothing to suggest that he was not an employee of the
same office. 16] Apart from this, a crucial aspect of the present case is that in
the cross examination, the complainant (PW-1) himself has stated that he
was the Secretary of the Workers Union. Being an important office bearer
of the Workers Union, it is difficult to accept that he was not aware about
the power and authority of the accused who was a mere Junior Clerk and
that he was not aware about the manner in which loan applications were
processed in the office. It is hard to accept that the Secretary of the
Workers Union would agree to pay illegal gratification to a Junior clerk in
the office under the mistaken impression that the Junior Clerk did have
power and authority to process or approve the loan application. This fact
also demonstrates that the defence raised on behalf of the accused is a
probable defence. 17] The trial Court has proceeded on the basis that the
presumption under Section 20 of the Act of 1988 operated against the
accused in the present case and that there was insufficient material
brought on record by the accused to rebut the presumption. The trial
Court has taken note of the fact that the complainant (PW-1) was the ::: Uploaded on - 26/06/2018 ::: Downloaded on - 27/06/2018 00:42:32 ::: 14 210618 apeal 758.03 judg.odt 

Secretary of the Workers Union but this crucial fact has not been
appreciated in the correct perspective by the trial Court. In fact, the only
aspect examined in this context by the trial Court is that the accused failed
to show that the complainant (PW-1) was in any manner concerned with
the attempts of the employees to have the accused transferred and that in
that context the whole grievance was raised by the complainant
(PW-1). Apart from this, the trial Court has failed to appreciate the
discrepancy in the evidence of the shadow witness (PW-2) as compared to
the version of the complainant (PW-1). The trial Court has proceeded on
the basis that when the accused was indeed caught red handed in a trap
case, the quality of evidence of the shadow witness (PW-2) as regards
the demand of illegal gratification was sufficient. The trial Court failed to
appreciate and apply the law as laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court
and reiterated by this Court in the aforesaid recent judgment in the case of
Baban Rathod (supra), while passing the impugned judgment and order. 18] Another relevant aspect of the present case is that there was
evidence of (PW-5) Assistant Engineer of the office on record which
demonstrated that the loan application of the complainant (PW-1) was very
much processed at the Divisional Office at Nanded. It cannot be accepted
that although the complainant was Secretary of the Workers Union he held
the impression that the entire processing and approval was in the hands of
the accused who was merely a Junior Clerk in the office. Thus, on an
overall analysis of the oral and documentary evidence on record,
particularly the evidence of the complainant (PW-1), shadow witness
(PW-2), Assistant Engineer (PW-5) and the defence witness Sheikh
Muzamil Sheikh Mustafa. It is evident that the basic foundational fact of ::: Uploaded on - 26/06/2018 ::: Downloaded on - 27/06/2018 00:42:32 ::: 15 210618 apeal 758.03 judg.odt 

demand of illegal gratification by the accused in the present case was not
established by the prosecution beyond reasonable doubt. As a result, the
presumption would not get triggered against the accused in the present
case. Even otherwise, there was sufficient material placed on record on
behalf of the accused to show that acceptance of the aforesaid amount of
Rs. 200/- pertained to some other work as indicated in his defence, for
which the defence witness was examined. This was quite apart from the
fact that proof of mere acceptance of the said tainted currency notes would
not ipso facto lead to conviction of the accused under the provisions of the
Act of 1988. 19] In the light of the above, it becomes evident that the impugned
judgment and order passed by the trial Court is not sustainable. Hence,
this appeal is allowed. The impugned judgment and order passed by the
trial Court is set aside and it is held that the prosecution failed to prove its
case against the accused. JUDGE 
Deshmukh ::: Uploaded on - 26/06/2018 ::: Downloaded on - 27/06/2018 00:42:32 :::