The petitioner is before this Court calling in question

termination of the petitioner as an agent of Life Insurance

Corporation of India by order passed by the Disciplinary Authority

dated 14-05-2019 and has further called in question order passed

during the pendency of the subject petition by the Appellate

Authority dated 02-05-2020 which confirms the order of the

Disciplinary Authority. 2. Brief facts that lead the petitioner to this Court in the

subject petition, as borne out from the pleadings are, as follows:- 3. Things standing thus, a crime comes to be registered in

Crime No.73 of 2018 against one M/s Vikram Investments for

offences punishable under Sections 403, 406, 420 r/w 34 of the IPC . The allegation was with regard to a transaction of one

A.R.Balaji and his Agarbathi Company who had invested and lost to

an extent of `11.74 crores through accused No.2 Narasimha 4 Murthy. The petitioner claims that he also had invested in M/s

Vikram Investments and had nothing to do with the loss. 4. The petitioner receives a communication from the Senior

Divisional Manager of the Corporation on 12-03-2018 seeking an

explanation from the hands of the petitioner with regard to his

involvement in Crime No.73 of 2018 for the aforesaid offences. The

communication indicated that the petitioner has induced his clients

to invest their money in the unauthorized investment schemes and

had promised his clients that future premiums under LIC plans can

be financed through those unauthorized schemes. The petitioner

receives another letter of the same date directing that the

petitioner should not solicit or procure new Life Insurance business

until further instructions from the Competent Authority. 5. On 14-09-2018 the petitioner receives a notice from an

Inquiry Officer appointed, directing him to appear before the

Divisional Office for a personal hearing to be held on 24-09-2018

indicating that it was an opportunity provided to the petitioner to be

heard and submission of his views. The petitioner appears before 5 the Inquiry Officer on 24-09-2018 and claims that he was asked to

reply to a questionnaire. The petitioner submitted his reply and

nothing came about. After about 6 months of the said personal

hearing, a show cause notice dated 18-03-2019 comes to be issued

by the Disciplinary Authority - Senior Divisional Manager seeking to

show cause as to why action should not be taken against him under

Regulations 15 and 16 of the Life Insurance Corporation of India

(Agents) Regulations, 2017 ('the Regulations' for short) to

terminate the petitioner as an agent of the Corporation. 6. The petitioner replies to the notice on 28-03-2019

contending that there was no inquiry worth the name held under

the Regulations. The petitioner after submitting his reply knocks at

the doors of this Court in Writ Petition No.14709 of 2019 calling in

question the show cause notice so issued on 18-03-2019. This

Court in terms of its order dated 11-04-2019 disposed of the

petition directing the Disciplinary Authority to take a decision in the

matter after considering the reply submitted by the petitioner in

accordance with law. Pursuant to the order passed by this Court,

the impugned order comes to be passed on 14-05-2019 invoking 6 the power under Regulation 16 of the Regulations by terminating

the petitioner as agent of the Corporation and consequent renewal

commission that the petitioner was entitled had been forfeited. 7. The petitioner again knocked at the doors of this Court in

the subject petition calling in question the order passed by the

Disciplinary Authority and this Court permitted the petitioner to file

an appeal before the Appellate Authority during the pendency of the

petition and the Appellate Authority rejects the appeal in terms of

his order dated 02-05-2020 which forms the second impugned

order in the petition. The Appellate Authority confirms the order

passed by the Disciplinary Authority - Senior Divisional Manager

and terminated the agency of the petitioner. 8. Heard Sri P.N. Prashanth, learned counsel appearing for

the petitioner and Sri Rajesh Shetty, learned counsel appearing for

the respondents. 9. The learned counsel for the petitioner, Sri Prashanth. P.N.

would vehemently contend that the petitioner has nothing to do

with the crime so registered against Vikram Investments. The 7 petitioner is only an investor in the said Company and against all

other accused, this Court has already granted an interim order of

stay. No proceedings are going on now. The Police even after five

years have not filed any charge sheet against the petitioner. He

would contend that Regulation 16 of the Regulations is blatantly

violated in the case at hand, as the petitioner is shown to have

been placed under suspension. The order of suspension was never

served on him. The impugned order cites that charges have been

framed. The charge sheet was never served on him. He would

contend that since it is in blatant violation of principles of natural

justice and denial of reasonable opportunity to defend himself (the

petitioner) the orders passed by both the Disciplinary Authority and

the Appellate Authority are contrary to law. He would seek

quashment of the said orders and restoration of status quo ante. 10. On the other hand, the learned counsel appearing for the

respondents would vehemently refute the submissions to contend

that all the opportunities had been granted to the petitioner and

every document that he had sought for was furnished to him. The

contention of the petitioner that he has no role to play in Vikram 8 Investments is contrary to records, as the matter is still under

investigation. Since he has failed to perform the duties as an agent

of the Corporation, the Disciplinary Authority has rightly taken

action in terms of Regulation 16 and has rightly terminated the

agency as the complaint against the petitioner is that he has

induced about 800 people to invest in the Company and the

Company had not returned their money and the petitioner had

admitted that he made investment in the said Company and had

introduced his family members also to the said Company, all of

which form a misconduct under the Regulations. He would support

the impugned orders. 11. I have given my anxious consideration to the submissions

made by the respective learned counsel and have perused the

material on record. 12. The afore-narrated facts, link in the chain of events and

their dates are not in dispute. The petitioner gets enrolled as an

agent of the Corporation on 18-03-1999. Once a person gets

enrolled as an agent of the Corporation, his term as an agent in the 9 Corporation is regulated and governed by the Regulations. The

Regulations are framed in exercise of powers conferred under Section 49 of the Life Insurance Corporation Act, 1956 with the

previous approval of the Union Government and are therefore

statutes. The Regulations in so far as they are germane to the lis

read as follows: (2) An agent shall, in addition to the commission payable
under sub-regulation (1), be entitled to bonus commission on 11 the first year eligible commission as provided in the Third
Schedule. (3) The commission or remuneration payable to an agent
in any form is subject to regulations made by the Authority
under the IRDAI Act, in force. (4) Save as provided by Regulation 19 , no commission
shall be payable to an agent after he ceases to be an agent. ... ... ... 16. Termination or suspension of agent for certain
lapses.--(1) The competent authority may, by order, in
writing, terminate the appointment of an agent, after due
notice and after giving him a reasonable opportunity of
being heard in accordance with the procedure laid down
in the Fifth Schedule, if he-- (a) has violated the provisions of the Insurance Act,
 1938 (4 of 1938), Insurance Regulatory and
 Development Authority of India Act, 1999 (41 of
 1999) or rules or regulations, made thereunder as
 amended from time to time; (b) acts in a manner prejudicial to the interests of the
 Corporation or to the interests of its policyholders; (c) has failed to discharge his functions and failed to
 comply with the code of conduct as set out in Regulation 8 and Regulation 14 , and directions
 issued by the Authority from time to time, to the
 satisfaction of the competent authority; (d) fails to furnish any information relating to his
 activities as an agent as required by the
 Corporation or the Authority; (e) furnishes wrong or false information or conceals or
 fails to disclose material facts in the application
 submitted for appointment of Agent or during the
 period of its validity; (f) does not co-operate with any inspection or enquiry
 conducted by the Authority; (g) fails to resolve the complaints of the policyholders
 or fails to give a satisfactory reply to the
 Corporation or the Authority; (h) if the competent authority is satisfied that either
 directly or indirectly the agent is involved in
 embezzlement of premiums or cash collected from
 policyholders or prospects or on behalf of Insurer,
 and he has been knowingly involved in or connived
 at any fraud, dishonesty, misrepresentation,
 misappropria-tion, cheating and forgery against the
 Corporation or its policyholders or any of its
 subsidiaries or against any person having official
 dealings with the Corporation or any of its
 subsidiaries; (i) violates the terms of appointment; (j) does not submit periodical returns as required by
 the Corporation or the Authority; (k) if evidence comes to its knowledge to show that he
 has been allowing or offering to allow rebate of the
 whole or any part of the commission payable to
 him; (l) if it is found that any averment contained in his
 agency application or in any report furnished by
 him as an agent in respect of any proposal is not
 true; (m) becomes physically or mentally incapacitated for
 carrying out his functions as an agent; (n) if he being an absorbed agent, on being called
 upon to do so, fails to undergo the required
 training or to pass the tests, within the time fixed
 by the Board; (o) if it is found that he is misusing any facility
 provided to him by the Corporation. (2) Where the competent authority proposes to take
action under sub-regulation (1), it may direct the agent not to
solicit or procure new insurance business until he is permitted
by the Competent Authority to do so and the order of
suspension so issued may be published as provided for in the
Fifth Schedule. 17. Termination or suspension of agency by
notice.--(1) The appointment of an agent may be terminated
by the competent authority at any time giving him one month's
notice thereof in writing. (2) Nothing contained in this regulation shall effect the
right of the competent authority to take action against the agent
in terms of Regulations 16 and 19. ... ... ... 19. Payment of commission on discontinuance of
agency.--(1) In the event of termination of the appointment of
an agent, the commission on the premiums received in respect
of the business secured by him shall be paid to him, if such
agent-- (a) has fulfilled the minimum business required under
 Regulation 9 for at least five years since his
 appointment and twenty five policies on different
 lives effected through him were in full force on a
 date one year before his ceasing to act as such
 agent; or (b) has fulfilled the minimum business required under
 Regulation 9 for at least ten years since his
 appointment; or (c) being an agent whose appointment has been
 terminated under clause (m) of sub-regulation (1)
 of Regulation 16 has fulfilled the minimum business
 required under Regulation 9 for at least two years
 since his appointment and policies on twelve
 different lives effected through him were in full 14 force on a date immediately prior to such
 termination: regulation (1) of Regulation 16 shall entail forfeiture of his entire
commission in respect of all the policies effected under his
agency. (3) Any commission payable under the sub-regulation (1)
shall not be paid if the agent commits breach of the proviso
thereunder. (4) Subject to other provisions of this regulation, any
commission payable to an agent under sub-regulation (1) shall,
notwithstanding his death, be payable to his nominee or
nominees or, if no nomination is made or is subsisting to his
heirs, so long as such commission would have been payable had
the agent been alive. (5) In the event of the death of the agent while his
agency subsists, any commission payable to him had he been
alive, shall be paid to his nominee or, if no nomination is made
or if subsisting to his heirs, so long as such commission would
have been payable had the agent been alive, provided he had
continually worked as an agent for not less than two years from
the date of his appointment and policies on twelve different lives
effected through him were in full force on a date immediately
prior to his death. (6) If the renewal commission payable under sub-
regulation (1) or sub-regulation (4) or sub-regulation (5) is less
than ten thousand rupees in any financial year (hereinafter
referred to as the said financial year), the competent authority
may, notwithstanding anything contained in the said sub- 15 regulation, commute all commission payable in subsequent
financial years for a lump sum which shall be three times the
amount of renewal commission paid in the said financial year,
and on the payment of such lump sum to the agent or his
nominees or heirs, as the case may be, no commission on the
business effected through the agent shall be payable in the
financial years subsequent to the said financial year. (7) Notwithstanding anything contained above, the
payment of renewal commission or hereditary commission shall
be as decided by the Board from time to time subject to any
regulations made by the Authority in this regard. 20. Appeals.--(1) Every agent shall have a right of
appeal to the Zonal Manager concerned of the Corporation
against an order terminating the appointment and or forfeiture
of renewal commission or suspending him from procurement of
new business under Regulation 15 or Regulation 16 or Regulation 18 or sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 19 . (2) Every person submitting an appeal shall file the
appeal in his own name. (3) The appeal shall be addressed to the authority to
whom the appeal lies and shall not contain any disrespectful or
improper language and shall be complete in itself. (4) The appeal shall be submitted through the authority
which made the order appealed against. (5) No appeal under this regulation shall be entertained
unless it is submitted within a period of three months from the
date on which the appellant receives a copy of the order
appealed against: (Emphasis supplied)

Clause (c) of sub-regulation (1) of Regulation 3 defines who is an

agent; an agent appointed in terms of Regulation 4 . Regulation 4 deals with appointment of agents; agents may be appointed in any

place for soliciting or procuring life insurance business including

continuance, renewal or revival of policies of the Corporation; Regulation 10 deals with payment of commission to agents; an

agent would be paid commission in discharge of his functions on the

first year premiums and all such renewal premiums received during

continuance of his agency. Regulation 16 deals with termination or

suspension of agent for certain lapses. The lapses are those which

are enumerated from sub-clause (a) to (o) thereof. Sub-regulation

(1) of Regulation 16 mandates that the Competent Authority may

pass an order in writing terminating the appointment of the agent

after due notice and after giving him a reasonable opportunity of 17 being heard in accordance with the procedure stipulated in the Fifth

schedule. Regulation 16(2) directs that the Competent Authority

may direct the agent not to solicit or procure new insurance

business until he is permitted by the Competent Authority and an

order of suspension would be published as provided under the Fifth

Schedule. Regulation 17 deals with termination or suspension of

agency by notice. Regulation 20 permits the agent whose services

have been terminated to file an appeal before the Appellate

Authority. Regulation 23 deals with consideration of appeal. This is

the broad statutory frame work under which the services of an

agent in the Corporation are regulated. Since the termination of an

agent can be only after giving the agent reasonable opportunity of

being heard in terms of the procedure stipulated under the Fifth

schedule, it becomes germane to notice the Fifth schedule which is

the schedule appended to sub-regulation (1) of Regulation 16 dealing with disciplinary action. The Fifth Schedule reads as follows: 2. Publication of order of suspension or termination.--(1)
The order of suspension or termination of appointment of the
insurance agent under Regulation 15 or Regulation 16 shall be
displayed on website of the Corporation and updated in
centralised list of agents maintained by the authority, so that
registration of new business by the suspended or terminated
agent is stopped forthwith by the Corporation. (2) On and from the date of suspension or termination of
agency appointment, the agent, shall cease to function as an
agent of the Corporation. 3. Effect of suspension or termination of agency
appointment.--(1) On and from the date of suspension or 20 termination of the agency, the agent shall cease to act as an
 agent. (2) The competent authority shall recover the
 appointment letter and identity card from the agent whose
 appointment has been terminated within seven days of issuance
 of final order effecting termination of appointment. (3) The competent authority shall black-list the agent and
 enter the details of the agent whose appointment is suspended
 or cancelled into the blacklisted agent's database maintained by
 the authority and the centralised list of agents' database
 maintained by the competent authority in online mode,
 immediately after issuance of the order effecting suspension or
 termination. (4) In case a suspension is revoked in respect of any
 agent on conclusion of disciplinary action by way of issuance of
 a speaking order by the competent authority, the details of such
 agent shall be removed from list of blacklisted agents as soon as
 the speaking order revoking his suspension is issued. (5) The competent authority, may inform other insurers,
 with whom he is acting as an agent, of the action taken against
 the agent for their records and necessary action." (Emphasis supplied)

The Fifth schedule appended to Regulation 16(1) mandates certain

procedure. The procedure is as follows, the appointment of an

agent can be cancelled only after conduct of an enquiry in

accordance with the procedure in the schedule; for the purpose of

enquiry the Competent Authority is to appoint an Enquiry Officer

within 15 days of issuance of a suspension order for conduct of

enquiry or investigation; the Enquiry Officer would direct the agent 21 to furnish all information and data necessary to conduct the enquiry

and grant 21 days time to the agent; the agent may within 21 days

furnish a reply to the Enquiry Officer; the Enquiry Officer is to give

reasonable opportunity of being heard to make his submissions in

support of his reply, therefore, an agent has to be heard apart from

submission of his reply. Clause 10 to 14 of the Fifth schedule deals

with the duties of the Enquiry Officer and the Disciplinary Authority

up to the culmination of the proceedings. The afore-quoted

schedule forms part of the Regulations. 13. The Regulations being statutory, observance of the tenor

of the Regulations and the procedure stipulated under the Fifth

schedule is imperative. It is under the parameters of the said

Regulations the case and contention of the petitioner is required to

be noticed. As observed hereinabove, the petitioner gets embroiled

in Crime No.73 of 2018 which was registered against one Vikram

Investments. The allegation against the petitioner is that he has

lured the investors to invest in Vikram Investments and had

promised certain premium returns. These are allegations which are

pending investigation by the Investigating Officer in the aforesaid 22 crime. The Police have not filed charge sheet yet though the crime

is registered five years ago. The issue in the lis does not concern

the contents of the crime. The aftermath of registration of crime is

what forms the fulcrum of the present lis. On the ground that the

crime comes to be registered on 03-03-2018 the Disciplinary

Authority issues a communication to the petitioner on 12-03-2018

seeking an explanation about the involvement of the petitioner in

the alleged incident. The Communication reads as follows: 14. The 1st respondent has filed its statement of objections

and there is no document produced seeking to demonstrate that an

order of suspension was served upon the petitioner at any point in

time. Therefore, the petitioner was never served with any order of

suspension which the communication reads and also was never

made aware of the appointment of the Enquiry Officer to summon

the petitioner for personal hearing. The petitioner appears before

the Enquiry Officer and submits his reply on 24.09.2018. The reply

is not produced as it was a questionnaire that was asked by the

Enquiry Officer and answered by the petitioner. The same would

stand to reason, as it is not produced by the respondent along with 25 the statement of objections. Therefore, this forms the first straw of

violation of principles of natural justice. If the order would read that

the petitioner was placed under suspension, the order of suspension

ought to have been communicated to the petitioner. If disciplinary

proceedings are initiated against an agent and if an Enquiry Officer

was appointed for the said purpose, it ought to have been made

known to the petitioner. Regulation 17 mandates that an agent can

be placed under suspension after issuance of suspension notice to

him, but not prior to notice he can be placed under suspension.

Both of which have been violated in the case at hand. 15. After the petitioner appears for personal hearing six

months passed by. Again on the same ground a show cause notice

is issued to the petitioner seeking to show cause as to why his

agency should not be terminated with forfeiture of renewal

commission. The show cause notice reads as follows: Whereas pursuant to your bail Order No.CRL.MISC No.2253
/2018 dated 4-04-2018,sufficient opportunity was given to you
to be heard by our Enquiry Officer on 24-09-2018. However,
your explanation dated 24-09-2018 to the Enquiry Officer has
not been found satisfactory. Whereas, you being a professional Agent, by your misdeeds,
have tarnished the image of the Corporation.

WHEREAS, you have acted in a manner prejudicial to the
interest of the Corporation and violated Rule 8(3),
Regulations 15(c) and (d) read with 16 (1) (b),(c), (h), (i) of the Life Insurance Corporation of India (Agents)
Regulations, 2017 notified vide Gazette Notification
G.S.R. 86(E) dated 2-02-2017 and failed to perform your
duties as an Agent. However, before proceeding further with the final order,
you are hereby directed to show cause in writing as to
why your agency should not be "Terminated with
forfeiture of Renewal Commission" for your aforesaid
misdeeds and for acting in a manner detrimental to the
interest of the Corporation, under the provisions of Rule
8(3), Regulations 15(c) and (d) read with 16(1) (b), (c), (h), (i) of the Life Insurance Corporation of India
(Agents) Regulations, 2017 notified vide Gazette
Notification G.S.R. 86(E) dated 2.02.2017. 27 Whereas, your reply should reach us within 15 days from
 the date of receipt of this notice failing which it will be
 presumed that you have nothing to say in the manner and
 further action will be taken without any reference to you.

 Dated at BANGALORE this 18th day of March 2019." (Emphasis added)

The petitioner submits a detailed reply to the show cause notice on

28-03-2019 and before an order could be passed, reaches this

Court calling in question the said show cause notice in Writ Petition

No.14709 of 2019. This Court disposed of the petition in term of its

order dated 11-04-2019 directing order to be passed. Consequence

of the said direction results in passing of the final order under the

Regulations. The final order reads as follows: (Emphasis added)

The final order reads that the petitioner in reply dated 28-03-2019

to the show cause notice dated 18-03-2019 was unable to disprove

the charges framed against him and the reply was not satisfactory.

Charges were never framed against the petitioner. What was issued

was a show cause notice seeking to show cause as to why the

agency should not be terminated. Therefore, this is the next straw

of violation of principles of natural justice and denial of reasonable

opportunity to the petitioner to defend himself. 16. Regulation 16 (supra) which deals with termination of

agency mandates that if the agency of any agent is to be

terminated for any of the reasons enumerated in sub-regulation

(1), mandates that the agent shall be provided reasonable

opportunity to show cause against such termination. The

reasonable opportunity to show cause against such termination

would in the considered view of this Court would not mean that he

should not be made known of what are the allegations against him

or communication of any order either, be it suspension, 30 appointment of Enquiry Officer or an order framing the charge, all

of which form part of a final order which terminates the agency of

the petitioner. The Fifth schedule appended to Regulation 16 as

quoted and noted (supra) mandates certain procedure to be

followed prior to passage of an order that would terminate the

agency of an agent. A perusal at the proceedings or the orders

passed which are all noted hereinabove, would unmistakably

indicate that the procedure as stipulated under the Fifth Schedule

has been thrown to the winds and the order of termination is

passed. 17. It is trite that if a particular procedure is mandated to be

followed prior to passing any order of termination, such procedure

cannot be given a go-bye by the Authorities, as procedure is the life

blood of the Fifth Schedule. On this solitary ground of blatant

violation or non-compliance with the procedure stipulated under the

Fifth Schedule and Regulation 16 , the orders impugned are

rendered unsustainable. 18. The petitioner then files an appeal. The Appellate

Authority rejects the appeal during the pendency of the subject

petition in terms of his order dated 02-05-2020. The consideration

in the appeal is as follows: in terms of Regulations 16(1)(b)(c) and (i) of Regulation 8(3) of 32 the LIC of India (Agents) Regulations, 2017 imposed by the
 Disciplinary Authority, be and is hereby confirmed and the
 appeal dated 9-08-2019 preferred by Sri Sutram Suresh, Ex-
 Agent, Code No.05942611, City Branch Code No.611 under
 Bangalore Division-1, be and is hereby rejected.

 Dated at Hyderabad this 2nd Day of May, 2020. Sd/- ZONAL MANAGER,
 (APPELLATE AUTHORITY)." In the light of the orders of both the Disciplinary Authority and the

Appellate Authority apart from the afore-narrated facts of the entire

proceedings being contrary to the principles of natural justice, are

bereft of reasons. Regulation 20 of the Regulations mandates that

the Appellate Authority shall consider all the grounds urged in the

appeal and then pass orders. The order passed by the Appellate

Authority, in the considered view of this Court, is not in consonance

with what is mandated under Regulation 20 or the order passed by

the Disciplinary Authority under Regulation 16 . 19. In view of the preceding analysis, both the orders of the

Disciplinary Authority and the Appellate Authority are rendered

unsustainable and have to be quashed. The quashment of orders

would not mean that the proceedings against the petitioner cannot

be taken afresh at all. Since they are in violation of the principles of 33 natural justice, it is from that stage the proceedings are required to

be redone by the Disciplinary Authority i.e., from the stage of

issuance of show cause notice. The petitioner would thus become

entitled to consequential benefits i.e., renewal commission, as the

orders impugned are no longer in existence. Except this, all other

consequential benefits would depend upon the outcome of the

proceedings now remitted. 20. For the aforesaid reasons, the following: 05-2019 passed by the Disciplinary Authority and the
 Proceedings dated 02-05-2020 passed by the
 Appellate Authority stand quashed. (ii) The matter is remitted back to the Disciplinary
 Authority to redo the entire exercise from the stage
 of issuance of show cause notice to the petitioner
 and the Disciplinary Authority shall comply with the
 regulations and adhere to the observations made in
 the course of this order. (iii) The Petitioner shall be entitled to all consequential
 benefits that would follow from the quashment of the
 aforesaid orders i.e., renewal commission. 34 (iv) All other consequential benefits would depend upon
 the proceedings that are now to be redone and their
 outcome. Pending applications, if any, also stand disposed as a

consequence. Sd/- JUDGE

bkp
CT:MJ