In Re:- An application for bail under Section 439 of the Code of Criminal
 Procedure filed on 15th July, 2015 in connection with RC/04/2/2014
 under Sections 120B / 420 / 409 of the Indian Penal Code and under Sections 4 and 6 of the Prize Chits and Money Circulation (Banning) Act,
 1978. The applicant/petitioner has moved this application for
 bail under Section 439 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.
 He has been in custody for 230 days (since 16.12.2014).
 From February 2015 till today he has been hospitalized,
 allegedly for various ailments. The applicant/petitioner's
 involvement in economic offences was revealed while
 investigating what is popularly known as the Sarada scam.
 The applicant/petitioner has applied for bail on three
 occasions earlier. The applications have been rejected on
 20th May, 2015, on 25th June, 2015 and on 2nd July, 2015.
 The applicant/petitioner had filed an application for bail
 before this Court which he did not press and it was,
 therefore, dismissed on 22nd April, 2015 being CRM No.1363
of 2015. The supplementary charge-sheet implicating the
petitioner has been filed on 18th February, 2015. Mr. Sibal, the learned Counsel, appearing for the
applicant/ petitioner submits that the allegations contained
in the supplementary charge-sheet do not, in any manner,
demonstrate that the applicant has committed the offences
under Sections 120B / 420 / 409 of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 4 and 6 of the Prize Chits and Money Circulation
(Banning) Act, 1978. He urges that the petitioner had no
dominion over any property nor was he entrusted with any
property as the banker, merchant, factor, broker, attorney or
agent. Therefore, according to Mr. Sibal, Section 409 I.P.C.
is not applicable to the applicant/petitioner. The learned
Counsel for the applicant/petitioner points out that the
allegations against the applicant/petitioner are inter alia: According to him, had he been inclined to do so, no
statements of the witnesses would have been recorded under
Section 161 or 164 of the Cr.P.C. Mr. K. Raghavacharyulu, learned Counsel appearing
for the C.B.I., submits that the petitioner has a large
influence on the members of the society in West Bengal
being a Minister of the State Government. He points out
that the application for bail filed by the applicant/petitioner
suppresses this fact which shows the conduct of the
applicant. The learned Counsel urges that since the
applicant is involved in economic offences which affect a
large section of the downtrodden people of the society, his
application for bail should be rejected. The learned Counsel
for the C.B.I. further submits that because of the status
which the applicant/petitioner enjoys in the State of West
Bengal, he has managed to lure the public to invest their
hard earned money with the Sarada Group. He has done so
by disclosing to the public in his speeches his tacit
protection for the company by stating that legal hurdles
faced by the company would be overcome by using his
political and other influence. The learned Counsel then
points out that the statements of the witnesses under Sections 161 and 164 of the Cr.P.C. have been recorded only
after the arrest of the applicant which, in itself, indicates no
individual had come forth before the petitioner's arrest
because of his undue influence. We have seen the case diary which reflects that
investigation is still in progress after the charge-sheet has
 been filed. The Supreme Court in the judgment, which
caused the investigation to be handed over to the C.B.I. in
the case of Subrata Chattoraj vs. Union of India & Ors reported in (2014) 8 SCC 768 has observed that on a
perusal of the synopsis furnished and the names included in
the list of persons sought to be interrogated in connection
with the scam by the C.B.I. it was abundantly clear that
there were several important individuals wielding
considerable influence within the system at the State and
the national level who had been identified by the
investigation agency. The Court further observed that the
investigation into the scam is not to be confined only to
those directly involved in the affairs of the companies but
may extend to several others who need to be questioned
about their role in the sequence and unfolding of events that
had caused ripples on several fronts. The learned Counsel for the C.B.I. also submitted that
it was not only the money trail which was being investigated
by the C.B.I. at the instance of the Supreme Court but also
the criminal conspiracy which had ramifications in different
States of the country including West Bengal, Odisha and
Assam. We have given our anxious consideration to the
submissions of the learned Counsel appearing for the
parties. We are of the view that this is not a case where it is
necessary to consider only the applicant's right to liberty but
also to ascertain the effect his freedom will have on the
progress of investigation in this case. It is true that the
charge-sheet has been filed on 18th February, 2015
implicating the applicant. However, the possibility of the
applicant wielding influence on investigation, the witnesses,
on the judicial process cannot be ruled out. Mr. Sibal did
suggest that the petitioner would tender his resignation once
he is released on bail. However we are not impressed with
 this offer. Even if he does resign, the petitioner's access to
witnesses will not be thwarted. His clout would not be
diminished. The magnitude of the scam and the fact that its
tentacles are spread in various States deters us from
enlarging the petitioner on bail. The larger interest of the
public and the State in economic offences must be borne
into mind while considering whether the applicant should be
granted bail. We are not convinced that the Petitioner should
be enlarged on bail only because some of the other accused
are no longer in custody. In these circumstances, in our opinion, this is not a fit
case where bail should be granted to the
applicant/petitioner. Accordingly the application for bail being CRM No.6575
of 2015 is rejected. (Nishita Mhatre, J.)

 (Asha Arora, J.)