Leave granted. 2. The appellant, a charge-sheeted accused in judicial custody in
connection with the infamous “Chit Fund Scam” involving the Saradha Group
of Companies (for short “Saradha Group”) has impeached the rejection of her
prayer for bail by the judgment and order impugned hereinabove and seeks
her release pending further investigation by the Central Bureau of
Investigation (hereafter also referred as “ the CBI”) into the said Ponzi
scheme. 3. We have heard Mr. A. Sharan, learned senior counsel for the
appellant and Mr. K. Raghavacharyulu, Special Public Prosecutor for the
respondent. 4. As the preface to this investigation had been laid by this Court in
its verdict in Subroto Chattoraj vs. Union of India & Ors. (2014) 8 SCC
768, allusion thereto is indispensable. This Court therein was seized
with the issue of transfer of several cases registered in connection with
the above scam and registered in different police stations in the State of
Bengal and Odisha from the State police agency to the CBI. In traversing
the recorded facts, this Court took note, inter alia, of the imputed modus
operandi of the persons and the entities allegedly involved in the illicit
operations to allure unsuspecting depositors to make investments in the
scheme with the promise of awarding them with attractive rewards and
returns, which was never intended and thereby swindle the gullible members
of the public belonging to the middle class, lower middle class and the
poorer sections of the society. The interim report(s), taken note of by
this Court, amongst others disclosed violation of the Securities and
Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 , The Companies Act, 1956 , The Reserve
Bank of India, 1934 and The Income Tax Act, 1961 and revealed as well
fraudulent certification, non-compliance with accounting standards,
material misstatements of facts and gross-negligence on the part of
statutory auditors and divulged that the estimated collection made by the
Saradha Group was of several thousand crores. The exercise undertaken by
the Commission of Inquiry appointed by the Government of West Bengal, which
received nearly 18 lakh complaints and claim petitions was also noted.
Involvement of high dignitaries did not miss the attention of this Court as
well. This Court noted with concern too, the failure of the Regulators
like SEBI, Authorities under the Companies Act and the Reserve Bank of
India. It was recorded that the scam had spread its roots in the States of
West Bengal, Tripura, Assam and Odisha and had by then devoured Rs.10,000
crores approximately from the public in general specially the weaker
sections of the society, having fallen prey to the temptations of handsome
returns, extended by the companies involved. That the collection of such
huge amounts from the depositors was neither legally permissible nor were
such collections/deposits invested in any meaningful business activity to
generate the high returns as promised to the depositors was noted. Having
regard to the gravity of the situation and the inter-state ramifications of
such notorious venture, this Court acceded to the prayer for transfer of
investigation from the State Police to the CBI. This Court underlined in
the conspectus of the attendant facts that the investigation ought to be
undertaken in particular to unearth the larger conspiracy angle and the
money trail which had since remained unexplored. 5. Pursuant to the above decision, FIR in RC-04/S-2014-(SIT) Kolkata
was registered by the CBI, Special Crime Branch, SIT, Kolkata. In course of
the investigation that followed, charge-sheets have been submitted on
17.11.2014, 18.02.2015, 17.04.2015, 14.08.2015 and 3.12.2015 under Sections 120B , 420 , 409 IPC and Sections 4 & 6 of the Prize Chits and Money
Circulation (Banning) Act, 1978 against various accused persons including
in particular Sudipta Sen of M/s Saradha Reality India Ltd. and three
other companies namely; M/s Saradha Tours and Travels (P.) Ltd., M/s
Saradha Garden Resorts and Hotels (P.) Ltd. and M/s Saradha Housing (P.)
Ltd. involved principally in the raising of funds from the public under
different investment schemes. 6. In the said process, the appellant herein was arrested on
07.10.2015 and was remanded to the police custody upto 13.10.2015.
Meanwhile, however the appellant having complained of chest pain and
attendant complications, and on medical advice was shifted to Government
Hospital, S.S.K.M. Hospital, Kolkata and since then, for various ailments,
as conveyed by her, she had remained in different hospitals from time to
time as on date. 7. Eventually the 5th supplementary charge-sheet under the
aforementioned Sections of law has also been laid against the appellant,
Sudipta Sen and Santanu Gosh and M/s Global Automobiles Ltd. on 4.1.2016.
As the forwarding report in connection therewith would disclose,
investigation is still continuing, under Section 173(8) of Cr.P.C. The
charge-sheet reveals the accusation that Sudipta Sen and others as named
therein together with M/s Saradha Reality India Ltd. in pursuance of
criminal conspiracy amongst others had collected a staggering amount of
Rs.7,74,33,59,929/- from various depositors under several investment
schemes in favour of Sardha Reality India Ltd., by falsely promising them
high returns but did not pay to the tune of Rs.569,26,28,095/- , thus
defrauding them. 8. The charge-sheet so far as is relevant for the present adjudication
disclose in substance that Sudipta Sen with a motive of expanding the
illegal deposit collection business of Shardha Group acquired T.V. Channels
and Newspapers and entered into several business deals in furtherance
thereof. In the process, the appellant, who claims to be a Journalist and
at the relevant time was not only associated with the Media but had some
clout on her business in the North Eastern states, where such illegal
exaction of Saradha Group was expanding, executed on 09.06.2010, a
Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with Sudipta Sen representing M/s Bengal
Media (P.) Ltd. In the MOU, the appellant, along with her father, was
depicted to be the absolute owner of M/s GNN India Limited. conducting the
T.V. Channel (Rajdhani & Frontier T.V.). Under the said MOU, the appellant
and her father agreed to sell and transfer 50% share of M/s GNN India
Limited to M/s Bengal Media Private Limited at a consideration of Rs. 50
crores, in return whereof , she was to be appointed as the Chief Executive
Officer of the latter company and further to be entitled to a remuneration
of Rs. 15 lakhs per month. An agreement between the parties followed on
21.6.2010, substantially in the same lines with the elaboration that M/s
GNN Indian Private Limited would issue fresh shares to M/s Bengal Media
Private Limited valued at Rs. 30 crores and further would transfer a
portion of the existing shares for an additional amount of Rs. 12.5 crores.
 The payments were to be made between 21.6.2010 to 15.9.2010 as per the
schedule agreed upon. As the charge-sheet mentions, investigation
disclosed that in terms of the agreement, the Saradha Group paid Rs.
21,05,48,136/- to M/s GNN India Private Limited. It is referred to in
clear terms that the payment thus made was from the illegal collections
from the depositors as at that point of time M/s Bengal was a loss making
company and was thus not in a position to discharge such heavy monetary
financial liability and thus the whole transaction was a dubious and
counterfeit deal only to launder the ill-gotten deposits with ulterior
motive. 9. That during 2009-2010, M/s GNN India (P) Limited had almost no
business activity and that it had been recording loss during the financial
year 2010-2013, was also noted. The charge-sheet further discloses that
the balance sheet of M/s. Sarada India Reality Limited was fudged so
much so that it fraudulently disclosed that an amount of Rs.
24,68,85,200/- had been advanced to M/s GNN India (P) Limited as Inter-
Corporate Deposits, which was patently false. According to the CBI and as
recorded in the charge-sheet, the petitioner entered into the above sham
deal with a motive of extracting undue financial benefit being fully aware
of the illegal deposit collection business of Saradha Group, which,
amongst others was demonstrated by the emails exchanged by her. The
charge-sheet further divulges that the liasion between Sudipta Sen and
the appellant was with a view to use the latter's connection to negotiate
the enquiry contemplated against illegal deposit business and also to
utilise her influence in the media to counter any negative publicity
against the illegal business activity of Saradha Group and that the
appellant actively associated herself in such activities and criminally
misappropriated the ill-gotten funds, as a party to the criminal
conspiracy. 10. The charge-sheet also records an agreement for sale between
Sudipta Sen on behalf of Saradha India Reality Limited and Santanu Ghosh
of M/s. Global Automobiles for purchase of 58 lakhs equity shares of the
former company at a consideration of Rs. 25 crores. That there was also a
separate agreement between them, whereunder the liabilities of M/s. Global
Automobiles Limited were agreed to be taken over at a price of Rs. 220
crores in all, figured as well in the charge-sheet. This, the CBI has in
specific terms recorded on the basis of the investigation that Santanu
Ghosh had indulged in such transactions being fully aware of the illegal
deposit collection business of the Saradha Group. The supplementary
charge-sheet mentions, to reiterate that further investigation is
continuing as per Section 173(8) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973
(for short, hereinafter to be referred to as “Code”) in respect of
influential accused persons, role of regulatory bodies like SEBI, ROC, RBI
and other agencies to unravel the larger criminal conspiracy angle and the
money trail. Admittedly, this supplementary charge-sheet had been
submitted on 4.1.2016, as noted above and though the investigation is
continuing, there has been no further supplementary charge-sheet in
between. Records reveal that meanwhile, the appellant has been
interrogated by the CBI in the hospital on 29.12.2015, 20.6.2016 and
14.10.2016. 11. In the above imposing factual backdrop, however, in the
interregnum, Sudipta Sen had been granted bail as the CBI had failed to
file charge-sheet within 90 days of his arrest. Subsequent thereto,
several other persons arrested have also been released on bail. The High
Court has also granted bail to Santanu Ghosh, who was also arrested on
07.10.2015, in connection with the above case. 12. It has been insistently urged on behalf of the appellant that as
she is in judicial custody for over 15 months and is suffering from various
ailments requiring constant medical attention, she deserves to be extended
the benefit of bail. Further as charge-sheet against her has been
submitted and she is fully cooperating with the investigation, her further
confinement in judicial custody is inessential. This is more so, as though
the investigation is claimed to be continuing, no further charge-sheet has
been submitted for the last over one year and that having regard to the
visible delay in the initiation and conduct of the trial in the face of
innumerable witnesses cited, her further detention would be travesty of
justice. Mr. Sharan has urged that MOU dated 9.6.2010 and the agreement
dated 21.06.2010, referred to in the charge-sheet demonstrate transactions
 which are purely of civil nature and in no way furnish the ingredients
of any criminal offence whatsoever. According to the learned senior
counsel for the appellant, not only the evidence collected in course of the
investigation does not make out any offence as alleged, in the teeth of
the release of the principal accused persons on bail, the appellant's
detention amounts to deprivation of her right to life and liberty enshrined
in Article 21 of the Constitution of India. 13. Per contra Mr. K. Raghavacharyulu, Special Public Prosecutor
has assiduously urged that having regard to the mandate of this Court to
unfailingl investigate the larger conspiracy angle and determine the money
trail of the deep-rooted counterfeit affecting lakhs of innocent
depositors, release of the appellant at this stage would be inexpedient.
In controversion, it has been asserted that the MOU and the agreement
mentioned in the charge-sheet, in the facts of the case are only a front to
indulge in criminal activities as divulged in the investigation. While
emphasizing that the appellant since her arrest has managed to remain
housed in hospitals, by feigning ailments, without suffering any
incarceration in the real sense, it has been asserted that lastly, she has
also given up her plea based on medical ground and thus it is of no avail
or significance for the present. According to Mr. K. Raghavacharyulu, her
hospital bills also do not endorse her plea of illness and treatment in
connection therewith. He has urged that as the investigation is in
progress, notwithstanding the release of some of the accused persons, it is
not a fit case to grant bail to the appellant, more so when the Trial Court
as well as the High Court have rejected her prayer to that effect on a
consideration of all relevant aspects. 14. We have closely analyzed the competing contentions and have
perused as well the pleadings and documents presently available on
records. In course of the arguments, having noticed the emphasis on the
ongoing investigation as a factor against grant of bail, we had required
the learned counsel for the CBI to furnish a status report with regard
thereto disclosing the updates, for a fair decision. 15. Accordingly, a status report had been laid before us in a
sealed cover, which apart from the background facts leading to the
registration of the case, arrest of the accused persons including the
appellant and the submission of the charge-sheets as on date, has not in
very clear and persuasive terms indicated the specific issues/areas,
presently being pursued in the investigation, so much so to impellingly
justify further detention of the appellant in judicial custody. Though
traces of the initiatives undertaken are available in the status report,
those, in our comprehension, too general in nature. For obvious reasons,
we refrain from dilating further on the contents of the said report. 16. The recorded facts demonstrate admittedly that the appellant is
continuously in judicial custody since 07.10.2015 and that the
supplementary charge-sheet against her along with others as mentioned
therein, had been filed on 04.01.2016 incorporating the evidence collected
against those incriminated. Having regard to the magnitude and canvass of
the investigation, it is likely that the exercise would take further time.
Though according to the CBI, the ailments of the appellant are not worth
any weight as a factor to grant her the privilege of bail, the medical
records nevertheless suggest that she is suffering from a variety of
ailments. Noticeably, the medical records have been issued by the hospitals
in which she is undertaking treatment. We are not unmindful, at this
juncture, of the nature of the hospital bills of hers as highlighted by the
learned counsel for the respondent. Though it is the plea of the
respondent that the appellant at times adopts a disposition to avoid
interrogation by the CBI, no convincing material has been brought on record
to demonstrate any misuse of her liberty qua the investigation while in the
hospitals since her arrest. As per the medical records, her ailments range
from ischemic heart disease to asthma, unstable angina, dysfunctional
uterine bleeding, constant nausea and lower back pain. 17. This Court in Sanjay Chandra vs. Central Bureau of
Investigation (2012) 1 SCC 40, also involving an economic offence of
formidable magnitude, while dealing with the issue of grant of bail, had
observed that deprivation of liberty must be considered a punishment unless
it is required to ensure that an accused person would stand his trial when
called upon and that the courts owe more than verbal respect to the
principle that punishment begins after conviction and that every man is
deemed to be innocent until duly tried and found guilty. It was underlined
that the object of bail is neither punitive nor preventive. This Court
sounded a caveat that any imprisonment before conviction has a
substantial punitive content and it would be improper for any court to
refuse bail as a mark of disapproval of a conduct whether an accused has
been convicted for it or not or to refuse bail to an unconvicted person for
the purpose of giving him a taste of imprisonment as a lesson. It was
enunciated that since the jurisdiction to grant bail to an accused pending
trial or in appeal against conviction is discretionary in nature, it has
to be exercised with care and caution by balancing the valuable right of
liberty of an individual and the interest of the society in general. It
was elucidated that the seriousness of the charge, is no doubt one of the
relevant considerations while examining the application of bail but it
was not only the test or the factor and that grant or denial of such
privilege, is regulated to a large extent by the facts and circumstances of
each particular case. That detention in custody of under-trial prisoners
for an indefinite period would amount to violation of Article 21 of the
Constitution was highlighted. 18. In the above factual premise and on an in-depth balancing of
all relevant aspects and chiefly the competitive imperatives of
investigation and the right to liberty, we are disposed, for the present to
grant bail to the appellant, subject to the conditions, as enumerated
hereinafter. To reiterate, having regard to the materials available, we
are of the opinion, mainly in the face of the disclosures in the latest
status report, that presently further confinement of the appellant in
judicial custody is not an indispensable necessity for the unhindered
investigation, that is in progress. 19. In the above view of the matter, the appeal is allowed and the
appellant is ordered to be released on bail in FIR RC-04/S/2014-(SIT)
Kolkata of Rs.1 (One) crore and on furnishing two local sureties each of
the like amount to the satisfaction of the Additional Chief Judicial
Magistrate Alipore, Kolkata, West Bengal and also subject to the following
conditions : 20. We make it clear that this order has been rendered in the
singular facts of the case and would not be cited as a precedent. .............................................J.
 (ARUN MISHRA)

 …...........................................J.
NEW DELHI (AMITAVA ROY)
 FEBRUARY 6, 2017. Petition(s) for Special Leave to Appeal (Crl.) No(s). 7899/2016

(Arising out of impugned final judgment and order dated 09/09/2016 in CRM
No. 473/2016 passed by the High Court Of Calcutta)

MANORANJANA SINH @ GUPTA Petitioner(s)

 VERSUS

CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION Respondent(s)

Date : 06/02/2017 This petition was called on for Judgment today. Hon'ble Mr. Justice Amitava Roy pronounced the judgment of the
Bench comprising Hon'ble Mr. Justice Arun Mishra and His Lordship. Leave granted. The appeal is allowed and the appellant is ordered to be
released on bail in FIR RC-04/S/2014-(SIT) Kolkata of Rs.1 (One) crore and
on furnishing two local sureties each of the like amount to the
satisfaction of the Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate Alipore, Kolkata,
West Bengal and also subject to the conditions as indicated in the
judgment. (Signed Non Reportable Judgment is placed on the file)