Pan Asia Advisors
 International Corporate Finance
 Minster House, 42 Mincing Lane,
 London, United Kingdom 2. Mr. Arun Panchariya
 Villa No.29, Street No.2,
 The Meadows -6,
 Emirates Hills Living III,
 Dubai, UAE. ... Appellants

 Versus

Securities and Exchange Board of India
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No.C4-A, G-Block,
Bandra Kurla Complex,
Mumbai - 400 051. ... Respondent

Mr. P. N. Modi, Senior Advocate with Mr. Neville P. Lashkari, Mr. Joby Mathew,
Advocates for the Appellants. Mr. Shyam Mehta, Senior Advocate with Mr. Mihir Mody, Mr. Pratham V.
Masurekar, Advocates for the Respondent. The present appeal raises an important issue as to whether Global

Depositories Receipts, i.e. GDRs, created and issued by foreign banks, namely,

Deutsche Bank and Bank of New York, and listed on foreign stock exchanges,

namely, Luxemburg Stock Exchange and the New York Stock Exchange, albeit at

the instance of Issuer Companies located in India, by a Lead Manager registered in

the UK and governed by regulations framed and enforced by a foreign regulator, are 2 amenable to the jurisdiction of an Indian regulator namely, the Securities and

Exchange Board of India ("SEBI"), in case any allegations of irregularity/illegality

are leveled against the Lead Manager registered in the UK. 2. The appeal is preferred by two Appellants against the impugned order dated

June 20, 2013 passed by the Respondent. Appellant no. 1, namely, Pan Asia

Advisors Limited is a company registered under the laws of the UK having its

registered office at 42, Mincing Lane, London. It is registered with the Financial

Services Authority, the federal financial regulator in the UK and is mainly in the

business of advising investors in relation to financial products outside India,

including services offered in relation to issuance of GDRs abroad in the capacity of

an International Corporate Advisor or a Lead Manager. Appellant no. 2, namely,

Mr. Arun Panchariya, is a non-resident Indian residing in Dubai, UAE who was

looking after the affairs of Appellant no. 1 till September 2011, when he is stated to

have resigned in the wake of the ad interim order of SEBI dated September 21,

2011. 3. Impugned order dated June 20, 2013 restrains the Appellants from accessing

the securities market for 10 years for the violation of Regulations 12A(a)-(c) of the SEBI Act, 1992 read with Regulations 3(c)-(d), and Regulations 4(1), 4(2)(c),

4(2)(e)-(f), 4(2)(k) and 4(2)(r) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India

(Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices Relating to Securities Market)

Regulations, 2003 (hereinafter referred to as PFUTP Regulations). 4. The basis of the impugned order seems to be that the Appellants, while

assisting certain Issuer Companies in the matter of creation and issuance of GDRs

abroad as a Lead Manager, adopted an objectionable and seemingly illegal modus-

operandi from the point of view of certain regulations issued by SEBI. The dispute 3 revolves around the role played by Appellant no. 1 as Lead Manager to the GDR

issues floated abroad at the desire of six Issuer Companies, namely, Asahi

Infrastructure and Projects Ltd., Avon Corporation Ltd., Cat Technologies Ltd., IKF

Technologies Ltd., K. Sera Sera Ltd. and Maars Software International Ltd.

Appellant no. 2 held the entire share capital of Appellant no. 1 during the relevant

period i.e. July 1, 2008 to July 20, 2012. The transactions which prompted the

Respondent to take action against the Appellants seem to be that Vintage FZE

("Vintage") sold these to FIIs such as India Focus Cardinal Fund ("IFCF") and KII

Limited ("KII") among others, who then converted these GDRs into shares and sold

them in the Indian capital market. According to the Respondent, prospective

investors in the Issuer Companies were given the impression that substantial foreign

capital was accruing to these companies through GDR subscriptions without their

being any genuine raising of capital. Further, the Respondent also states that

misleading particulars of initial investors were provided by Appellant no. 1 to Issuer

Companies, which forwarded them to the stock exchanges which, in turn, published

them on their websites. 5. The main portion of the impugned order, as contained in paras 16 to 23

thereof, is reproduced hereinbelow for the sake of convenience :- 17. I note that the provisions of section 12A(a) -(c) of the SEBI Act read
with regulations 3(c)-(d) of the PFUTP Regulations, inter alia prohibit
buying, selling or dealing in securities in a fraudulent manner;
employment of any manipulative/deceptive device, scheme or artifice to
defraud in connection with dealing in securities; engaging in any act,
practice, course of business which operates or would operate as fraud or
deceit upon any person in connection with dealing in securities. Further,
regulations 4(1) and 4(2)(c), 4(2)(e)-(f), 4(2)(k), 4(2)(r) of the PFUTP
Regulations, inter alia prohibit indulgence in fraudulent and unfair trade
practices in securities through various acts, omissions stated therein. In
my view, any fraudulent or deceptive device, scheme, act, omission, etc.
which has the potential to inter alia induce sale/purchase of securities of
any company; influence investment decisions of investors in such
company; or result in wrongful gain, etc. would be covered within the
prohibition under the aforementioned provisions of law. 18. Given the vital functions of protecting investors and safeguarding
the integrity of the securities market vested in SEBI and the
commensurate powers given to it under the securities laws, it is
necessary that SEBI exercise these powers firmly and effectively to
insulate the market and its investors from the fraudulent actions of the
participants in the securities market, thereby fulfilling its legal mandate.
A basic premise that underlies the integrity of securities market is that
persons connected with securities market conform to standards of
transparency, good governance and ethical behavior prescribed in
securities laws and do not resort to fraudulent activities. In this case, I
find that Pan Asia and Panchariya by employing fraudulent arrangement
with regard to the subscription of GDRs and thereafter monetizing those
GDRs through the sale of underlying shares of the GDRs have violated
the provisions of Section 12A(a) -(c) of the SEBI Act read with
Regulations 3(c) - (d), Regulations 4(1) and 4(2)(c), 4(2)(e) - (f), 4(2)(k),
4(2)(r) of the PFUTP Regulations, and have acted in a manner which is
fraudulent and deceptive and to the detriment of the interest of investors
in the Indian securities market. 19. I note that this is not the first time Panchariya has been involved in
violating securities laws. I observe that earlier, SEBI had passed an
order dated November 13, 2009 imposing monetary penalty for creating
false and misleading appearance of trading in Alka and his involvement
in publication of premature/misleading positive announcements. In view
of the repetitive acts of Panchariya and the gravity of the offence that
has been perpetrated by him as brought in the foregoing paragraphs, I
am of the opinion that stern measures need to be taken against
Panchariya and Pan Asia. 20. In view of the foregoing, I, therefore, in exercise of the powers
 conferred upon me by virtue of section 19 read with section 11(4) and 11B of the SEBI Act and regulation 11(1) of the PFUTP Regulations,
 hereby direct as follows - i. Pan Asia and Panchariya as persons connected to the Indian
 Securities market are barred from rendering services in connection with
 instruments that are defined as securities (as in section 2(h) of SCRA,
 1956) in the Indian market or in any way dealing with them, directly or
 indirectly, for a period of 10 years, from the date of this order.

 ii. Pan Asia and Panchariya are prohibited from accessing the capital
 market directly or indirectly, for a period of 10 years, from the date of
 this order . 21. I note that vide the Interim Order dated September 21, 2011 (later
 confirmed through the Confirmatory Order on January 17, 2012), Pan
 Asia and Panchariya were inter alia barred from rendering services in
 connection with instruments that are defined as securities in the Indian
 market or in any way dealing with them, till further orders. 22. In this context, I note that Pan Asia and Panchariya have already
 undergone the debarment for a period of approximately one year and
 eight months. In view of this factual situation, it is clarified that the
 debarment already undergone by Pan Asia and Panchariya pursuant to
 the aforementioned SEBI Order shall be reduced while computing the
 period of debarment being imposed vide this order. 23. This Order shall come into force with immediate effect." 6. Vociferously denying any misdemeanors on their part, the Appellants have

raised a preliminary objection as to the jurisdiction of SEBI to intervene in respect

of acts done and modalities adopted by them in the matter of creation and issuance

of GDRs abroad as the same are governed by the RBI and the Ministry of Corporate

Affairs, Government of India. The Appellants submit that they have no role in the

conversion of GDRs into shares and their trading on Indian Stock Exchanges.

Similarly, the Appellants cannot be held responsible for any alleged act of the Issuer

Companies in India. No show cause notices have been issued to the concerned

Indian Issuer Companies. 7. The jurisdictional issue was taken up seriously by the Appellants before SEBI

as well as this Tribunal and at the time of oral submissions, both the learned senior

counsel argued for almost four days on this preliminary issue intermingled with the

merits of the matter. So even for deciding the issue of jurisdiction, we have to delve

into the submissions made by the parties on merit to some extent. Since the

jurisdictional issue is at the core of the controversy in hand, we must necessarily

deal with it at the very outset. It has been specifically held by the Hon'ble

Supreme Court in the case of Carona Ltd. vs. Parvathy Swaminathan & Sons reported in (2007) 8 SCC 559 that the fact(s) upon which the jurisdiction of a court,

a tribunal or an authority depends can be said to be "jurisdictional fact(s)". If the

jurisdictional fact exists, a court, tribunal or authority has jurisdiction to decide

other issues. If such fact does not exist, a court, tribunal or authority cannot act.

Also, a court or a tribunal cannot wrongly assume existence of jurisdictional fact

and proceed to decide a matter. The underlying principle is that by erroneously

assuming existence of a jurisdictional fact, a subordinate court or an inferior

tribunal cannot confer upon itself jurisdiction which it otherwise does not possess.

The existence of a jurisdictional fact is thus a sine qua non or condition precedent to

the assumption of jurisdiction by a court or tribunal. There is a plethora of rulings

supporting this proposition of law but the same have not been dealt with for the sake

of brevity. 8. It is the Appellants' case that the Respondent's jurisdiction is limited to the

territory of India and acts or omission committed by a party therein. It does not

extend to transactions executed by the Appellants in countries outside India with

respect to the issuance of GDRs since the same are governed by the Issue of

Foreign Currency Convertible Bonds and Ordinary Shares (through

Depository Receipts Mechanism) Scheme, 1993 ("the GDR Scheme") issued by 7 the Ministry of Finance, Government of India and the Master Circular on

Foreign Investment issued by the RBI periodically. On the contrary, the

Respondent has not framed any regulation governing GDRs for the simple reason

that it lacks jurisdiction to do so. 9. With respect to the transactions between Vintage Bank ("Vintage") and

Euram Bank, the necessary returns filed by Vintage have been scrutinized by the

RBI which, as submitted by the Appellants, has jurisdiction instead of the

Respondent. The transactions in question are said to be valid in Austria since the

banking regulator in Austria, ie., the Central Bank of the Republic of Austria has not

questioned any transaction. In this connection, the Appellants have produced the

legal opinion of some leading law-firms of Austria and the UK which has not been

denied by the Respondent. The Respondent is wrong in holding that there was no

real movement of funds solely on the basis of the fact that the transactions were by

way of book entries in Euram Bank's records through which the account of Vintage

was credited with the loan amounts which were then transferred to the GDR account

of the Issuer Company. The Appellants, thus, vehemently refute the Respondent's

allegation that there was no actual inflow of funds to the Issuer Companies and that

GDRs were issued without any costs or purchase transactions abroad. 10. The Appellants submit that even otherwise none of their actions with respect

to GDRs can be construed as violating any law, rule or regulation framed by SEBI.

It is pointed out that even in India, banks regularly finance applications in IPOs as

well as share trading. In such transactions the shares end up getting pledged and

then sold for repayment which is considered bonafide and legitimate. All loans to

Euram Bank have since been repaid and pledges released. It is not uncommon in

foreign countries for GDRs to be subscribed through Special Purpose Vehicles

(SPVs) which in this case were the initial investors and not fictitious entities created 8 by the Appellants. Such SPVs are especially created for the limited purpose of

subscribing to GDRs. It was Euram Bank which was "the Banker to the Issue" in

respect of the GDR issues. Similarly, the Bank of New York and Deutsche Bank

created and issued GDRs to the initial subscribers. These entities are also,

undoubtedly, beyond the jurisdiction of the Respondent manifested in the fact that

the Respondent has not taken up the matter with them even for the sake of

clarification. If this has in fact been done by the Respondent, the outcome has not

been brought on record. 11. The Appellants further submit that the GDRs were in reality legitimately

sold and transferred to IFCF, KII and the rest. The loans availed from Euram Bank

were repaid and the loan/pledge agreements were terminated. Vintage did not have

a joint account with any Issuer Company. The Issuer Companies pledged their cash

account in which the GDR subscription funds were deposited while Vintage pledged

the account in which the GDRs were held. Moreover, no pledge agreement between

Euram Bank and any Issuer Company was ever invoked. And the reliance placed by

the Respondent on the agreement between Euram and Vintage is totally erroneous

since the agreement itself is beyond its purview. 12. Regarding the Respondent's allegation that Indian investors have ultimately

paid for the GDRs, it is argued by the Appellants that large quantities of GDRs have

not even been converted into shares, and a sizeable portion of those converted has

not been traded in the Indian securities market. The Appellants submit that the

allegation regarding the initial investors being fictitious contradicts the allegation

that certain foreign subsidiaries of a few Issuer Companies had financial transactions

with initial investors of GDR issues. As elsewhere noted, Vintage has not been

called upon to answer for its alleged misdeeds, if any. The Respondent's finding

that it is "probable" that the transactions between the foreign subsidiaries and 9 Vintage "could possibly be a route for the issuer company to compensate Panchariya

for the services rendered by him" is untenable since the Respondent does not seem

to have conducted a full and proper investigation regarding the same by seeking

clarifications from either the Bank of New York, the Deutsche Bank or the other

FIIs. Similarly, no loss, whatsoever, is shown to have been caused to the Indian

investors or to the Indian capital market. 13. The Appellants submit that during the course of the hearing of the Appeal,

this Tribunal put a question to the Respondent seeking to know which of the steps of

the flow-chart depicting the fraudulent scheme allegedly undertaken by the

Appellants, is actually illegal as per Indian law. The Respondent's reply to this was

simply that nothing depicted in the flow chart could as such be said to be illegal.

Moreover, the GDRs were created and issued to initial investors by Deutsche Bank

and the Bank of New York. The Respondent does not seem to have checked with

either of them regarding the identity of these initial investors. In the absence of any

investigation conducted by the Respondent in this regard, the Respondent cannot

allege that the list of initial investors provided is fictitious. 14. The Respondent's accusation that Appellant no. 1 provided false information

regarding initial investors contradicts the allegation that appellant no. 1 failed to

provide information regarding the names of initial investors. It is further submitted

that all Vintage did was to arrange the loan from Euram Bank. The GDRs were

pledged by Vintage to Euram Bank as security after obtaining the consent of the

initial investors as per law. 15. The allegation that the Appellants provided Indian stock exchanges with false

information is baseless owing to the fact that no information was provided to any

stock exchange by the Appellants since it is not their responsibility to do so. While 10 addressing the Respondent's contention that the GDR subscription funds received

by the Issuer Companies could not be used by them since they were pledged to

Euram Bank to secure the loan availed by Vintage, the Appellants state that

pledging the funds would itself amount to usage of the funds. It was pointed out that

only that could be pledged which belonged to oneself. The Respondent is, therefore,

wrong in alleging that no foreign capital was raised by the Issuer Companies to be

used for their benefit. 16. The Appellants forcefully submit that it is incorrect to state that the GDRs

have been issued from the authorised capital of the company, when in actuality the

shares underlying the GDRs held by the Domestic Custodian Bank form part of the

authorised share capital of the Indian Companies. So long as the GDRs remain

unconverted into shares, no trading can be said to have been done in the Indian

market with respect to the underlying shares. 17. Per contra, the Respondent states that it noticed that several FIIs/Sub-

accounts were converting GDRs held by them in certain companies into shares for

sale in the Indian market. Appellant no. 2 can be said to be connected with a few of

these entities, namely, Alkarni Holdings Ltd.; Alka India Ltd.; Vintage FZB; India

Focus Cardinal Fund; KII Ltd.; Oudh Finance and Investment Pvt. Ltd.; Basmati

Securities Pvt. Ltd. and S. V. Enterprises. 18. The Respondent explains the allegedly fraudulent scheme launched by the

Appellants in the following manner. Vintage manages the availment of loans in

order to subscribe to GDRs. After subscription these GDRs are sold to FIIs by

Vintage which then go on to sell shares upon conversion of GDRs in the Indian

capital market. The Respondent states that as per the agreement entered into

between Vintage and Euram Bank, the amount received by the Issuer Company 11 from Vintage on subscribing to GDRs should be deposited in the account of the

Issuer Company maintained with Euram. It is also pointed out that this account

appears to be the same as the one in which the Issuer Company shows its GDR

subscription proceeds to have been deposited. This GDR account is stated to have

been pledged as security by the Issuer Companies to Euram Bank for loans availed

of by Vintage. From all of the above, the Respondent has inferred that although the

GDR account is held in the name of every Issuer Company, it is actually Vintage

which has control over these accounts since they are kept as collateral for the loan

availed by Vintage. 19. The Respondent states that once the loan is taken and the proceeds towards

GDRs deposited with Euram, the Issuer Company issues GDRs to investors through

the designated Overseas Depository Bank. The GDRs were transferred to the

security account of Vintage maintained with Euram instead of the accounts of initial

investors. It was also noted that this was done on the day of issuance of GDRs when

a payment for the GDRs in question was made from Vintage's account with Euram

to the GDR account of the Issuer Company. On the basis of this, the Respondent

has concluded that the GDRs were issued to Vintage directly and that the list of

initial investors allegedly provided by the Appellants is misleading. The

Respondent submits that there is no effective movement of funds involved.

Investigations seem to have revealed that the dealings of KII in the GDRs of the

Issuer Companies were financed by Appellant no. 2. The explanation received by

the Respondent from the Issuer Companies in this regard is stated to be inadequate. 20. It is also alleged that Appellant no. 2 through Vintage signed a loan

agreement with Euram Bank which was collateralized by pledging the GDR

proceeds received by the Issuer Companies which allegedly made Vintage the sole

subscriber to GDRs. The Respondent's case, thus, appears to be that upon buying 12 shares from the afore-mentioned FIIs the Indian investors seem to have assisted the

Issuer Companies in releasing the GDR subscription proceeds from all

encumbrances. 21. Further, it is submitted that the loan agreement and the pledge agreement

cannot exist exclusively of each other. Due to the pledge agreement entered into by

Asahi, which is one of the Issuer Companies, it was not able to utilize the GDR

proceeds till the loan taken by Vintage from Euram Bank was repaid, which took

nearly eight months. Via the pledge agreement, the Issuer Companies pledge the

GDR proceeds as collateral for the loan availed by Vintage. Such an arrangement is

not allowed by law in India. Existing shareholders of the Issuer Companies, while

appreciating the fact that foreign capital was being raised through issuance of GDRs,

were not aware of this design of the Appellants. 22. We have heard the learned counsel for both parties at length and perused the

appeal, documents attached therewith and the judgments cited before us. To begin

with, we would like to deal with the contention of the Appellants that since no

affidavit in reply has been filed to the Appeal, none of the submissions in the

Memorandum of Appeal are denied/disputed by the Respondent, and hence, all the

submissions in the Appeal are deemed to be admitted. In this connection, Mr. P. N.

Modi, learned senior counsel for the Appellants has placed reliance on the judgment

of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of M. Venkatramana Hebbar (Dead) By

Lrs. vs M. Rajagopal Hebbar and Others reported in (2007) 6 SCC 401. We

have minutely gone through the said judgment and we note that the respondents

before the Hon'ble Supreme Court were the original plaintiffs who had filed a suit

for partition of the property involved in that matter. Their suit was not decreed by

the trial court on the ground that there was already a family settlement in place and

the property had been partitioned by the co-owners. On appeal the Hon'ble High 13 Court observed that the trial court had not taken into consideration the plea of the

plaintiffs that there was no partition of the family property by metes and bounds.

This plea of the plaintiffs was not denied by the defendants (appellants before the

Hon'ble Supreme Court) before the trial court. Therefore, on appeal, the Hon'ble

High Court reversed the judgment of the trial court. 23. In this background, the matter reached the Hon'ble Supreme Court which

held that the High Court rightly directed that the plaintiffs' suit be decreed. In this

connection, relying upon Order 8 and Rules 3 and 5 of the Civil Procedure Code, the

Hon'ble Supreme Court held as under :- 24. Facts of the above case are clearly distinguishable and do not help the

Appellants since in the present matter we are dealing with a statutory Appeal.

Moreover, the learned senior counsel for the Respondent, Shri Shyam Mehta, had

argued the matter on the basis of the impugned order for almost two days in the

presence of the learned senior counsel for the Appellants, who had even availed of

an opportunity granted to him to meet out the contentions of the Respondent made

during the oral arguments by way of rejoinder arguments. Therefore, it cannot be

said that mere non-filing of reply in affidavit by the Respondent would amount to an

admission of the submissions/contentions raised in the Appeal by the Appellants. 14 This plea of the Appellants, being misconceived, is hereby repelled in the facts and

circumstances of the present case. However, we feel that had a reply been filed by

the Respondent in the case in hand, it would have definitely helped the Tribunal as

well as the Appellants to comprehend the whole matter in a shorter span of time and

with better precision. 25. During the course of exhaustive arguments made before us on facts and on

law, learned counsel for both parties have brought various rulings and other material

on record in their tireless efforts to assist us in reaching a just and fair inference in

the present matter. However, no pronouncement made by any Hon'ble superior

court on the issue of GDRs has come to our notice. In such a situation, we have

tried to restrict ourselves to purely statutory and regulatory provisions promulgated

by the Government of India/ RBI, coupled with well settled legal principles

enunciated mainly by the Hon'ble Supreme Court. 26. As stated earlier, this Appeal raises an issue regarding the jurisdiction to be

exercised over the creation and issuance of GDRs. Specific guidelines regarding

issuance of GDRs are in existence in the form of regulations and rules enunciated by

individual stock exchanges like the Luxemburg Stock Exchange. The Financial

Services Market Act, 2000 regulates financial services and markets in the UK. And

as per Section 19 of the Act only an authorised person or an exempt person may

carry on regulated financial activity in the UK. As already stated above, Appellant

no. 1 (now called Global Finance and Capital Limited) is an authorised person

bearing reference number 456779 on the website of the FSA. Appellant no. 1

clearly functions under the aegis of the FSA which supervises all its actions. 27. Turning to the Indian context, it may be noted that the expression 'Global

Depository Receipts' has been defined in clear terms under the provisions of the 15 GDR Scheme of 1993 and not in the SEBI Act, 1992 , or the Securities Contracts

(Regulations) Act, 1956 , or the Depositories Act (1996), or the existing Companies

Act, 1956 . Section 2(c) of the said Scheme reads as follows :- An attempt has been made to solidify the law with respect to GDRs by introducing Section 2(44) in the new Companies Bill, which defines GDRs, and Section 41

which provides that a company may issue GDRs abroad after passing a special

resolution as per law. 28. The conception of GDRs may be traced back to the early 1990's when

various steps of economic liberalization relating to foreign investment and foreign

trade were undertaken by the Government of India and drastic changes were made in

the then existing law by bringing in new rules and regulations, including revisiting

the entire Foreign Exchange Regulations Act, 1973 ("FERA"). A Task Force was

constituted under the supervision of the RBI to undertake a fresh exercise and

suggest a new law in this regard. Finally, it was suggested that the FERA should be

repealed altogether. As such, new legislation called the Foreign Exchange

Management Bill was introduced in the Parliament, which ultimately took the shape

of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 . Simultaneously, a detailed scheme

for the issuance of GDRs as well as FCCBs i.e Foreign Currency Convertible Bonds

was issued by the Ministry of Finance, Government of India in the year 1993, i.e.,

the GDR Scheme of 1993, with the object of facilitating the issue of FCCBs and

GDRs abroad by companies registered in India. The Government of India's policy

with regard to GDRs is primarily reflected in the following - 16 I. Issue of Foreign Currency Convertible Bonds and Ordinary Shares
 (through Depository Receipts Mechanism) Scheme, 1993. II. The Reserve of India Master Circular on Foreign Investment in India.

 III. The Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 IV. The Foreign Exchange Management (Transfer or Issue of Security
 by a person resident Outside of India) Regulations, 2000. 29. A perusal of the GDR Scheme of 1993 shows that GDRs are to be "created

and issued" by an Overseas Depository Bank. No Merchant Banker (Lead Manager)

registered with SEBI or any other authority in India is competent to handle GDRs to

be issued abroad by an Issuer Company located in India. Reciprocally speaking, the

Securities regulator in India, viz., SEBI, cannot conceivably extend its reach to a

company which is not only incorporated in the UK, but by virtue of being registered

with the financial regulator of the UK, i.e., FSA is also managed and supervised by

the FSA itself. 30. Clause (3) of the scheme provides that an application for permission to issue

GDRs is to be made by an Issuer Company to the Department of Economic Affairs,

Ministry of Finance, Government of India. It further provides that an approved

intermediary under the scheme, would be an Investment Banker registered with the

Securities and Exchange Commission in the USA, or under the FSA in the U.K., or

the appropriate regulatory authority in Germany, France, Singapore or in Japan.

Such issues would need to conform to the Foreign Direct Investment Policy and

other mandatory statutory requirements and detailed guidelines issued in this regard.

The provisions of paragraph (4B) of Schedule I to Foreign Exchange Management

(Transfer or Issue of Security by a Person Resident Outside India) Regulations,

2000 as notified by Reserve Bank of India vide Notification No. FEMA 41/2001-

RB, dated March 2, 2001, would also need to be adhered to. Clause 5(4)

specifically stipulates the manner in which the issue price or conversion price is to 17 be determined. Sub-clause (cc) specifically lays down that it is only where an Issuer

Company makes an issue of GDRs and simultaneously offers shares to the Indian

market by way of an Initial Public Offer (IPO) or otherwise that SEBI's approval is

to be obtained and even that would be for the limited purpose of issuance of shares

to Indian investors and no one else. GDRs have been consciously kept out of the

purview of SEBI. Clause (6) mentions that GDRs can only be listed and freely

traded on a foreign stock exchange. Similarly, Clause 7 stipulates the mechanism

for conversion of GDRs into shares. Clause 8 further stipulates that even bonus and

rights shares, if any, should be locked in with the Domestic Custodian Bank. The

Overseas Depository Bank shall then issue corresponding GDRs to the GDR

subscribers abroad. Further, Clarification 22 for the first time introduced the

concept of two way fungibility of GDRs. Clause (e) expressly provides that since

conversion of shares into GDRs, in keeping with this principle of two way

fungibility, would involve a secondary market transaction, the acquisition of such

shares through an intermediary on behalf of the overseas investors would fall within

the regulatory purview of SEBI. However, it is pertinent to note that here again the

second tranche of the issuance of the GDRs is to be monitored by the RBI alone. It

is, thus, evident that wherever the law makers wish to entrust SEBI with any kind of

role in the matter of GDRs, the same is expressly provided for. 31. A perusal of the provisions dealt with above leaves no room for doubt

regarding the jurisdiction pertaining to the creation and issuance of GDRs. To our

minds, it is clear that the Government, as a policy matter, intended for GDRs to sail

in a different boat entirely. As noted above, the Ministry of Finance/ RBI regulates

the issuance of GDRs. The fact that even the issuance of GDRs, in accordance with

the concept of two-way fungibility is to be managed by the RBI shows that even 18 after GDRs are converted into shares, if their reconversion is required, the relevant

authority i.e. RBI steps into the picture. 32. Next, we analyze important provisions of the RBI Master Circular on

Foreign Investments in India. This master Circular exhaustively deals with the

regulatory framework governing foreign investment in India as per the requirements

laid down in Section 6(3) of the FEMA, 1999. It provides for the application of

SEBI's rules, regulations regarding various forms of foreign investments in India,

but clearly excludes GDRs. It also deals with other connected issues such as that of

NRI direct investment; transfer of shares from Resident to Non-Resident; Issue of

Rights/Bonus Shares to the Non-Resident shareholders; Issue of Shares under

ESOP's to Non-Resident; Investment in Shares by qualified Foreign Investors and

Indian Depository Receipts (IDR) etc. In all these matters GDRs are not involved at

all. Clause 8(f) specifically mentions that GDRs must be issued in accordance with

the GDR Scheme of 1993 and provides for the reporting guidelines. Section V of

the said master circular stipulates provisions for reporting to the RBI on the

completion of the GDR issues, and quarterly reporting thereafter to the RBI by the

Issuer Companies in the prescribed form to the RBI and not to SEBI. 33. Once again a perusal of the provisions of this Master Circular makes it

abundantly clear that GDRs fall squarely within the RBI's domain as is evident from

the fact that the only mention of GDRs has been made to clarify any doubt regarding

control over GDRs by stating that they are to be managed in accordance with the

GDR Scheme of 1993 issued by the RBI. It is categorically mentioned that once

GDRs have been issued, a report on the completion of the process of issuance is to

be sent to the RBI, as opposed to it being sent to SEBI. 34. Now we turn to the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 i.e. FEMA.

The history behind the promulgation of FEMA has already been discussed

hereinabove. Section 1 of FEMA deals explicitly with extraterritorial jurisdiction,

stating in no unclear terms that the act extends not only to India but also offices and

agencies outside India which happen to be owned or controlled by an Indian

resident. It also applies to contraventions committed outside India by any person to

whom the act applies. Section 6(3) of the said Act, which stipulates that RBI would

regulate the transfer or issue of security outside India, reads as under :- It is stipulated that GDRs can only be issued with the approval of the Ministry of

Finance as per the aforesaid Scheme. The reporting requirement to RBI with

respect to GDRs has once again been reiterated. Regulation 6 clearly stipulates

that pricing of the GDRs would be determined strictly as per the aforesaid Scheme.

Schedule I prescribes the format for the return to be filed by an Indian Issuer

Company issues GDRs. The scheme of FEMA, thus, makes it abundantly clear that

Government of India has, as a policy matter, kept each and every minute aspect of

the GDR issue under the purview of the RBI and not SEBI. So much so that there is

a separate, distinct and exhaustive regulatory system for controlling issues

connected with GDRs in FEMA which belies the contention of the Respondent that

it has jurisdiction in the matter. 37. Furthermore, Section 1 of the SEBI Act, 1992 itself makes it crystal clear

that the SEBI Act extends solely to the whole of India. The natural interpretation of

the provisions of Section 1 would be that it does not apply to activities pertaining to

the capital market outside the country. As far as jurisdiction goes, it is a settled

position that in the Indian politico-legal set up, jurisdiction on any entity, such as 21 the Respondent, maybe conferred only by the Parliament and no one else. It cannot

be acquired, assumed or exercised in any other manner by any governmental

agency. 38. In this connection, it is pertinent to note the observations of the Kania

Committee which submitted its report in 2005. It was observed that the SEBI Act is

bereft of any substantive provisions which, in the opinion of members of the

Committee, ought to be given an overriding effect over other laws. Moreover, in

places in the SEBI Act where certain substantive provisions deserve to be given an

overriding effect, it has already been done through non-obstante clauses. The

Committee, therefore, recommended that the SEBI Act not be amended to allow it

to override all other statutes. 39. Our Constitution prides itself on being one which recognizes a system of

governance wherein the three organs of the Government, viz., the legislature, the

executive and the judiciary, each adopts a system of 'checks and balances' so as to

keep the other organs in line. In Ram Jawaya Kapur & Ors. vs. The State of

Punjab , reported in AIR 1955 SC 549, the Supreme Court proclaimed the

following principle: "The Indian Constitution has not indeed recognised the

doctrine of separation of powers in its absolute rigidity but the functions of the

different parts or branches of the Government have been sufficiently differentiated

and consequently it can very well be said that our Constitution does not

contemplate assumption, by one organ or part of the State, of functions that

essentially belong to another." This principle applies not only to the three arms of

the Indian Government but also to all the statutorily created bodies to which the

Government might choose to delegate certain tasks. But those tasks/ matters, which

have not specifically been delegated, can under no circumstances be assumed to

have been so delegated. 40. Learned counsel for the Appellant has placed before us the judgment passed

in the case of GVK Industries Ltd. and Anr. vs. Income Tax Officer and Anr. ,

decided by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in 2011 reported in (2011) 4 SCC 36,

the issue which arose was related to extra-territorial application of laws passed by

the Parliament. The facts of the case were such that the appellant filed a writ

petition in the Hon'ble High Court of Andhra Pradesh challenging an order of the

IT Officer which directed the Appellants to withhold certain amount of money

being paid to a foreign company under one of Sections 9(1)(i) or 9(1)(vii)(b) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 . The vires of Section 9(1)(vii)(b) was challenged for the

alleged violation of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. The Hon'ble High

Court, rejecting the petition, upheld the applicability of Section 9(1)(vii)(b) along

with its constitutional validity. It, however, held that Section 9(1)(i) did not apply

in the circumstances of the case. Allowing the appeal, the Hon'ble Supreme Court

pertinently observed as under :- 41. Keeping in view the spirit of GVK, it is evident that the Parliament has

already stepped in and made law governing GDRs in the form of FEMA, 1999 and

connected regulations. This has been done deliberately by the Parliament duly

taking note of the nexus between creation and issuance of GDRs abroad and its

conversion into underlying shares in India. Thus, the Parliament has, as a matter of

policy, conferred majorly upon the RBI the jurisdiction pertaining to the creation

and issuance of GDRs abroad because of foreign exchanges being involved in the 23 process. SEBI cannot assume jurisdiction vested with the RBI when its role as a

regulator begins only after GDRs are converted into Indian listed Securities. 42. We, therefore, fail to see how and on what ground supervision over creation

and issuance of GDRs can be given to the Respondents, particularly in the absence

any law categorically empowering SEBI to deal with matters relating to creation

and issuance of GDRs abroad. On the contrary, the Indian Parliament, in its

wisdom, has conferred such power upon RBI and Ministry of Corporate Affairs

under the FEMA, 1999 except when the GDRs are converted into shares in India

and are traded on Indian Stock Exchanges. Thus, SEBI has been given a restricted

and well defined role in this regard and all other regulatory aspects in respect of

GDRs are within the domain of RBI or Ministry of Corporate Affairs. 43. We now discuss certain other judgments referred to by the Appellants during

the course of the arguments advanced before us. In General Manager, Telecom vs.

Mr. Krishnan and Anr. , decided by the Hon'ble Supreme Court on September

1, 2009 reported in (2009) 8 SCC 481, the dispute related to non-payment of the

telephone bill to the respondent, for which the connection was disconnected. The

respondent filed a complaint before the District Consumer Disputes Redressal

Forum. The complaint was allowed by the Forum vide order dated November 26,

2001 which directed that the connection be restored and that a compensation of Rs.

5000/- with interest at 12 percent per annum from the date of filing of the complaint

be paid to the respondent. The appellant filed a writ petition before the Hon'ble

High Court of Andhra Pradesh which was dismissed. The Hon'ble Supreme Court

while allowing the appeal held that when there was a special remedy provided by

way of Section 7-B of the Telegraph Act, the remedies under the Consumer

Protection Act would be barred by implication. It was observed that special law

overrides the general law. It is indeed a well established principle that in cases 24 where the law provides a specific course of action to the aggrieved, other remedies

in law are unavailable. 44. We now deal with the judgment passed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the

case of State of Maharashtra vs. Public Concern for Governance Trust and

Ors., alongwith Vinay Mohan Lal vs. State of Maharashtra and Ors. reported

in (2007) 3 SCC 587. Certain applications were made to the Chief Minister of

Maharashtra, who also held the post of Minister for Urban Development, regarding

allotment of land. Now, the Chief Minister noted the words "please put up" on five

out of the six applications. The applications were forwarded to the relevant

authority, i.e., the City and Industrial Development Corporation (CIDCO). The

Chief Minister's role ended after the endorsement of the five applications.

Allotments were made to six co-operative housing societies by CIDCO. These were

challenged by way of a writ petition on the ground that the Chief Minister favored

five of those applications by endorsing them. The Hon'ble High Court of Bombay

set aside the allotments without calling for any explanation from the Chief Minister

or making him a party to the case. Certain adverse remarks were made against the

Chief Minister by the Hon'ble High Court. After hearing both parties, the Hon'ble

Supreme Court came to the conclusion that the remarks/strictures passed against the

Chief Minister were illegal, incorrect and unwarranted, being against the principles

of natural justice, particularly "audi alteram partem" since the Chief Minister had

not been given an opportunity to put forth his case before the Hon'ble High Court.

In the case in hand as well, we note that the Respondent has sought to implicate

Vintage, Euram Bank, Indian Issuer Companies alongwith certain other entities

including FIIs by making certain observations against them without issuing any

show cause notice or summons thereby denying any opportunity to them of being

heard. 45. We now deal with the judgments cited by the Respondents. In the case of V.

Natarajan relied upon by the Respondent, and decided by this Tribunal on

June 29, 2011 (Appeal No. 104 of 2011), the Appellant therein was the Chairman-

cum-Whole Time Director of company in question i.e., Pyramid Saimira Theatre

Ltd. During the financial year 2007-2008, the Board of Directors of Pyramid

Saimira Theatre Ltd. inflated its revenues and profit by fictitious entries in its

accounts and disclosed the same in quarterly and annual accounts of the stock

exchanges where the shares of the said company were listed. This definitely

misleads the investing public in their investment decision. This was rightly treated

by the Tribunal as a fraudulent act on the part of Mr. V. Natarajan, the Appellant in

the said case. The FUTP Regulations clearly prohibit planting false or misleading

news which has the potential of influencing the gullible public in their decision

making process for the investment purposes in shares of a particular company.

Moreover, despite his resignation in April 2008, Mr. V. Natarajan continued as

Chairman emeritus of the company. Therefore, the said case is distinguishable and

does not advance the case of the respondents. 46. Similarly, in the case of N. Narayanan vs Adjudication Officer, SEBI reported in (2013) 178 Comp. Case 390 (SC), Hon'ble Supreme Court was dealing

with the case of a promoter and whole time director who was found guilty of

intentionally giving false information by artificially inflating his companies'

financial results, revenues and profits etc. Thereby, causing damage to the capital

market as well as a common investors' interest. This led to erosion of the

confidence of the public in the capital market. Moreover, this was done by the

appellant therein for personal gains and attainment. In fact we find that both these

are distinguishable on the ground that in those two cases irregularities of a grave

nature had been committed by directors of the companies by providing false 26 information to the stock exchanges and Indian investors in the form of artificial

inflated accounts. In this case, however, no information has been provided to the

public or the stock exchanges, whatsoever by the Appellants as that particular job

belonged to the Issuer Companies. 47. The case of Alka India Ltd. decided by this Tribunal on May 6, 2010 in

Appeal Nos. 44 of 2010 etc. has been relied upon by the Respondent to impress

upon the point that the Appellant no. 2 has adopted similar modalities in the case in

hand. We have minutely read the judgment of Alka India Ltd. and we note that it

pertains to certain reportings by the said company i.e., Alka India Ltd. of the

financial results in the year 2003. The same were alleged to have been inflated by

not making any provision of tax payment etc. There were certain misleading

corporate announcements which also formed part of the allegations. This Tribunal,

therefore, concluded that such an act on the part on the company disseminated

certain non-accounting information to the shareholders and the public at large,

which was price sensitive. The company was, therefore, debarred from accessing

the Indian securities market for a period of 6 months. Certain monetary penalties

were also imposed on the promoters/directors of the said company. Alka India Ltd.

is, therefore, totally in the context of an Indian company making certain misleading

corporate announcements which were considered harmful to the Indian market. It

does not deal with the issue of Global Depository Receipts. The case of Alka India

stands on a completely different footing with respect to the case present before us.

Any irregularities, if at all committed by Appellant no. 2, with respect to Alka India

cannot be a ground to condemn the Appellants in the case in hand, without any

obvious correlation. The judgment, therefore, does not advance the case of

Respondents. 48. In Sahara India Real Estate Corporation Limited & Ors. vs. SEBI reported in (2013) 1 SCC 1, the main issue was whether Optionally Fully

Convertible Debentures ("OFCDs") issued by the two Sahara companies were

public issues and hence required to be listed on a stock exchange. Connected to this

was the question of interpretation of the expression "securities'', as defined in the

SCRA. In this context the broad issue was whether SEBI possessed jurisdiction to

regulate such securities which were not listed on any of the stock exchanges in the

light of certain provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 . The Tribunal held that the

OFCDs were securities within the meaning of the SEBI Act read with the provisions

of the SCRA and S.2 (45 A) of the Companies Act . Therefore, the OFCDs were

compulsorily required to be listed on a stock exchange as it was a public issue and

not a private one which could be limited to 50. The OFCDs were subscribed to by

almost 3 crore investors, as such, listing was necessary. On appeal before the

Hon'ble Supreme Court, the order of the Tribunal was upheld with certain

modifications regarding grant of extra time to the two Sahara Companies for

complying with the orders in question. The facts of the present case are, therefore,

entirely distinguishable in as much as in the case before the Hon'ble Supreme Court,

admittedly, OFCDs were involved which are securities created, conceptualized and

invested in by investors in India whereas in the present case GDRs have been

created and issued in foreign domain and thus, fall within the purview of the RBI

and not SEBI. 49. Further, in Karnavati Fincap Limited. Vs. SEBI reported in 186 Comp.

Cases (87), the issue which presented itself before the Gujarat High Court was

whether investors who have purchased shares listed on a recognized stock exchange

can be included within the meaning of the expression "other persons associated with

the securities market" in Section 11(2) (i) of the SEBI Act and that the said 28 expression is not limited to persons listed in Section 11(2) . The petitioners before

the Hon'ble High Court had dealt in the scrip of Mr. Madanlal B. Purohit listed on

the BSE. They argued that purely on the basis of the fact that they had executed

transactions with respect to shares listed on the BSE, SEBI did not have the right to

summon the petitioners or institute an enquiry against them or call for any

information from them. It was also contended that an in-depth reading of Section

11(2) (i) read with Sections 11 B and 12 of the SEBI Act leads to the conclusion that

SEBI could regulate only stock exchanges, mutual funds, other persons associated

with the securities market and intermediaries and self- regulatory organizations in

the securities market. However, the Hon'ble High Court held that the buyer of

shares would fall within the purview of the class enumerated in clause (i) as a person

associated with the securities market. It was also held that the PFUTP Regulations

of 1995 categorically provided for an investigation to be conducted into the affairs

of any person dealing in the securities market. 50. In the facts and circumstances of the present case, we note that the judgment

in Karnavati Fincap Ltd. is distinguishable on account of the petitioners therein

being Indian citizens, particularly investors in the capital market. In the present

appeal, Appellant no. 1 is a company registered with the FCA, UK, whereas

Appellant no. 2 is based in Dubai. Therefore, Karnavati Fincap Ltd. does not

advance the Respondent's case in any manner. We find this case to be

distinguishable purely on the basis of facts. 51. In Price Waterhouse and Company vs. SEBI reported in (2010) 112 (8)

Bom. L. R. 3871, SEBI had received some information from B. Ramalinga Raju of

Satyam Computer Services Limited disclosing that the information provided to

stock exchanges in the form of the statement of accounts was false in that the

balance sheet of Satyam showed inflated cash and bank balances amounting to 29 around an extra Rs. 321 Crore. SEBI, while investigating the matter, sent show

cause notices to Price Waterhouse and Company, along with a few individual

chartered accountants in relation to the audit performed by them of the accounts of

Satyam. 52. The Hon'ble Bombay High Court held that SEBI did in fact have the right to

inquire into the matter connected with the fabrication of books of accounts and

balance sheets of Satyam since SEBI's powers stand independent of the Institute of

Chartered Accountants. SEBI taking action with respect to a statutory auditor

appointed for a listed company cannot be construed as SEBI encroaching upon the

powers of the institute referred to above . This judgment too is distinguishable

owing to the fact that the firm Price Waterhouse and Company is registered with the

Institute of Chartered Accountants, and hence subject to Indian laws. Moreover, the

acts complained of against them were committed within the territory of India. 53. Without prejudice to the contentions of both the parties, it is worthwhile to

note that the Appellants submit that the impugned transactions are legal in Austria

and that the Respondent is wrong in holding that the legality of the transactions in

Austria is irrelevant. The Appellants point out that certain allegations, i.e.,

allegations relating to Section 77 of the Companies Act, 1956, allegations with

respect to the judgment in the case of Gammon India Limited and allegations in

respect of the FEMA Guarantees Regulations, made their first appearance in the

impugned order and are conspicuously missing in the show cause notice. This itself

vitiates the impugned order, being violative of natural justice. From a perusal of the

second chart it is seen that the total value of GDRs sold by Vintage to IFCF and KII

was US $ 2,79,84,972 (Rs. 139.92 crores when $1= Rs.50) and the total value of

shares sold by IFCF and KII in the Indian market was Rs.120.17 crore, which

shows actual loss to Vintage. From the two charts provided, it cannot be 30 conclusively proved that prices of scrips of some Issuer Companies involved, for

which GDR's were issued by the Appellants went up, or that Indian investors were

put to any loss. In fact, from sale values of GDRs in USD and sale realization of

these GDRs in the Indian security market, it can be clearly seen that there was a

financial loss to the Appellants. 54. Be that as it may, in our considered opinion, GDRs seem to be sown,

nurtured and nourished in countries abroad and right from their conception to their

fruition, GDRs exist overseas. By no stretch of the imagination, can it be accepted

that GDRs which are issued abroad can come within the purview of the SEBI Act .

It would be appropriate to state that the Respondent in this case has, in fact, indulged

in hot pursuit of the Appellants to bring them within its clutches without any legal

basis for the same. We fail to see how jurisdiction over something brought into

existence under a scheme launched by the Ministry of Finance, Government of India

and the RBI in the first place can be assumed by the Respondent. SEBI may have a

role only when GDRs are converted into shares and traded on Indian Stock

Exchanges, and that too when any loss or prejudice is caused to the Indian investors

or to the Indian capital market. In the case in hand, on facts, SEBI has not proved

any loss to Indian investors or damage to the Indian capital market by putting forth

any cogent and convincing evidence. 55. The above discussion categorically leads to one conclusion, viz., it is the RBI

and/or the Ministry of Finance, Government of India, which has exclusive

jurisdiction in respect of the issuance, trading and conversion of GDRs into shares

abroad. In fact, since the year 1993 all the rules, regulations, guidelines, circulars

etc, governing GDRs have been promulgated by the RBI or the Ministry of Finance.

Therefore, the RBI/Ministry of Finance would have jurisdiction to investigate and/or

adjudicate upon any alleged wrong-doing in the issuance of GDRs abroad by an 31 Issuer Company through a lead manager overseas. In this connection, it may also be

pertinently noted that the SEBI Act, 1992 ; the Securities Contracts (Regulations)

Act, 1956 ; the Depositories Act (1996) and the Companies Act, 1956 give no power

to SEBI to exercise any jurisdiction in respect of the issuance, trading or conversion

of GDRs abroad. The Respondent would have jurisdiction, if at all, only once the

GDRs are converted into shares and traded on Indian stock Exchanges in an

objectionable manner or in violation of any norm, rule or regulation prescribed by

SEBI. 56. There are, however, a couple of exceptions which are to be noted in the entire

jurisprudence pertaining to GDRs where SEBI has been given a limited role. First,

if the Issuer Company has been debarred by SEBI in respect of some violations of

its regulations, the said Issuer Company cannot issue any GDRs. Therefore, the ban

comes at the threshold itself. Secondly, if an issuer company intends to issue an IPO,

i.e., Initial Public Offerings of its shares in the Indian capital market and

simultaneously, intends to float GDRs abroad, SEBI is empowered to look into the

aspect of the issue of IPOs only. Barring these couple of exceptions, there does not

seem to be any other provision either made by the Parliament, Ministry of Finance,

RBI or even by SEBI under which SEBI might have acted and looked into any

alleged fraudulent or wrong methodology/modus operandi adopted by any party in

the matter of creation and issuance of some GDRs abroad. Being the appellate

authority over SEBI and also keeping in view its excellent performance so far, we

would ourselves wish for SEBI to have vast and extensive powers to deal with

issues pertaining to the capital market. However, we would hasten to add that

looking at the changing economic scenario at the national and international levels,

the concerned authority shall have to be a bit proactive in empowering SEBI with

wider jurisdiction from time to time. 57. In light of the above legal and factual backdrop, the Impugned Order is

hereby set aside on the ground of SEBI not having the jurisdiction over the creation

and issuance of GDRs abroad. Having thus decided on the basis of the preliminary

objection, we are not obligated by law to adjudicate upon the other issues raised in

the appeal pertaining to the merits of the matter, which are kept open to be looked

into by the relevant authority as per law, and if so advised, with a view to streamline

the entire programming of the issuance of GDRs. The appeal is, accordingly,

allowed. No costs. Sd/- Jog Singh
 Member

 Sd/- A. S. Lamba
 Member
30.09.2013
ptm

Per : Justice J.P. Devadhar 1. On perusal of order proposed by learned Member Shri Jog Singh, I find it

difficult to agree with the views expressed therein. Hence, this separate order. 2. Basically two questions arise for our consideration in this appeal. They

are:- 3. Appellant no.1 is a company registered in United Kingdom (U.K.) and is,

inter alia, engaged in the business of advising investors in relation to financial

products outside India. Appellant no.2, a non-resident Indian, is the

Promoter/Director of appellant no.1 holding 100% shares of appellant no.1.

Appellant no.2 has stepped down as Managing Director of appellant no.1 with

effect from 29/9/2011, after ad-interim ex-parte order was passed against him by

SEBI on 21/9/2011. 4. Relevant facts are that, SEBI on receiving alerts from its regulatory system,

conducted investigation in respect of trading in scrips of certain companies during 34 the period from January 1, 2009 to May 31, 2010 ('investigation period' for short).

Preliminary investigation revealed that during the investigation period, average

daily volume of trading in shares of certain companies had increased significantly.

It was noticed that the shares of the companies under investigation were sold by a

set of FIIs/sub-accounts and bought by a set of clients. Based on preliminary

investigation, SEBI was prima facie of the opinion that Arun Panchariya (appellant

no.2) the then Managing Director of appellant no.1 was the mastermind for

issuance of structured Global Depository Receipts ('GDRs' for short) on behalf of

companies under investigation. It was found that the GDRs of those companies

were subscribed to by entities controlled by Arun Panchariya which were sold

thereafter to entities controlled by Arun Panchariya which in turn converted the

said GDRs into equity shares and sold those equity shares in Indian market to the

entities with which Arun Panchariya was connected. Thus, according to SEBI,

Arun Panchariya, through structured GDRs played major role in creating liquidity

in the scrips of companies under investigation, which was detrimental to the

interests of investors in India. 5. In view of above prima facie opinion, pending further investigation, SEBI

passed ad-interim ex-parte order on September 21, 2011 whereby appellants were

restrained from accessing the Indian securities market. On January 17, 2012, ad-

interim ex-parte order dated September 21, 2011 was confirmed. 6. Preliminary investigation conducted by SEBI during the investigation

period related to following six companies:- Preliminary investigation revealed that the above six companies had issued GDRs

and heavy trading in scrips of above six companies during the investigation period

was on account of conversion of GDRs issued by above six companies ('issuer

companies' for convenience) into equity shares, by certain Foreign Institutional

Investors/sub-accounts, namely:- Preliminary investigation further revealed that equity shares of issuer companies

sold by above FIIs/sub-accounts were bought by set of clients ('Group' for

convenience), namely:- 7. On completion of detailed investigation and after hearing appellants, SEBI

by impugned order dated 20/6/2013 held that appellants, being persons associated

with securities market, have acted detrimental to the interests of investors by

entering into prohibited arrangement with the promoters of Issuer Companies.

Therefore, with a view to protect interests of investors in securities, SEBI by

impugned order dated June 20, 2013, has debarred appellants from rendering

services in connection with instruments that are defined as 'securities' under Section 2(h) of SCRA in the Indian market or in any way dealing with them

directly or indirectly for a period of 10 years and further prohibited appellants 36 from accessing the capital market directly or indirectly for a period of 10 years.

Challenging the aforesaid order, present appeal is filed. 8. With this background, first question raised in this appeal may be considered

viz., whether SEBI has jurisdiction to initiate proceedings under SEBI Act, 1992 against appellants on the ground that appellants had committed fraud on the

investors in India in relation to sale/purchase of underlying shares released on

redemption of GDRs in India. 9. Arguments advanced by Mr. Modi, learned Senior Advocate appearing on

behalf of appellants, on the above question may be summarized as follows:- Clause (e) of clarification No.22 further provides that custodian

 would monitor reissuance of shares under two way fungibility of

 GDRs and furnish a certificate to both RBI and SEBI to ensure that 38 the sectoral caps are not breached and that RBI would monitor the

 receipt of certificates from the custodian to that effect. Thus,

 jurisdiction of SEBI under the GDR mechanism is limited to the

 extent noted in Clarification No.22 dated 13/2/2002 and not beyond

 that. (d) Similarly, by Clarification No.29 dated 5/1/2009, Central

 Government has clarified that relevant contract notes under two

 way fungibility of GDRs need not be submitted to SEBI and as and

 when required, SEBI shall requisition the custodians to provide

 copies of the contract notes. This clarification further supports

 contention of appellants that regulating GDR mechanism is with

 DEA/RBI and the role of SEBI is limited to the extent noted earlier

 and therefore SEBI could not have investigated role of appellants

 as lead manager to GDR issue. (e) RBI, in exercise of powers conferred upon it under FEMA 1999, has

 issued 'Master Circular on Foreign Investments in India' which

 contains regulatory framework and instruction governing foreign

 investment in India. Under that Master Circular, an Indian

 company issuing GDRs is required to furnish to the Reserve Bank,

 full details of GDR issue in the prescribed form within 30 days

 from the date of closing of the issue. The Master Circular further

 requires the company to furnish a quarterly return in the

 prescribed form to the Reserve Bank within 15 days of the close of

 the calendar quarter and continue to submit such quarterly returns 39 till the entire amount raised through GDR mechanism is either

 repatriated to India or utilized abroad in accordance with RBI

 guidelines. Similarly, 2000 Regulations framed by RBI in exercise

 of powers conferred under FEMA, stipulate that GDRs can be

 issued only with the approval of Ministry of Finance and reiterates

 reporting requirements to RBI. Thus, it is evident that ensuring

 compliance of the terms and conditions under GDR mechanism is

 with DEA/RBI and not with SEBI. (f) There is no provision under SEBI Act, 1992 which empowers SEBI

 to regulate GDR mechanism. In fact, till date, SEBI has neither

 framed any regulation relating to GDRs nor has investigated into

 the alleged lapses under GDR mechanism. Therefore, SEBI could

 not have investigated into the role played by appellants as lead

 manager to the GDRs in question, as it lacked jurisdiction. (g) It is not in dispute that GDRs are created, sold and traded outside

 India and therefore, irregularity, if any, committed by the

 appellants in respect of those GDRs outside India could only be

 investigated by DEA/RBI and hence beyond the jurisdiction of

 SEBI. (h) Relying on decision of Apex Court reported in (2009) 8 SCC 481

 (G.M. telecom vs. M. Krishnan), it is contended that 1993 Scheme is

 a special provision and GDRs issued thereunder are liable to be

 regulated by DEA/RBI and power of SEBI to regulate the same is 40 limited to the extent specified therein and therefore, in respect of

 violations of GDRs, if any, special provisions contained in 1993

 Scheme would prevail over general provisions contained in SEBI

 Act, 1992 . 10. It is difficult to accept above arguments advanced on behalf of appellants. 11. Preamble to the SEBI Act, 1992 provides that SEBI is established by

Parliament with a view to protect interests of investors in securities and to promote

development of, and to regulate, the securities market and for matters connected

thereto or incidental thereto. Thus, preamble to SEBI Act, 1992 makes it clear that

Parliament intended to establish SEBI with all powers necessary to protect interests

of investors in securities and promoting/developing/regulating the securities

market in India, and also confer powers in relation to matters connected therewith

or incidental thereto.; 12. Section 11(1) of SEBI Act, 1992 provides that subject to the provisions of SEBI Act, 1992 , it shall be the duty of SEBI to protect interests of investors in

securities and to promote development of, and to regulate, the securities market by

such measures as it thinks fit. Expression 'such measures as it thinks fit' in Section

11(1) of SEBI Act, 1992 clearly shows that Parliament has conferred upon SEBI

absolute discretion in the matter of protecting interests of investors in securities

and in the matter of promoting and regulating securities market. 13. Scope of the expression 'by such measures as it thinks fit' in Section 11(1) of

SEBI Act, 1992, as pointed out by counsel for respondent, was considered by the 41 Apex Court in the case of Sahara India Real Estate Corporation Ltd. vs. SEBI wherein Apex Court has inter alia, held thus: 14. Section 11(4) of SEBI Act, 1992 further provides that without prejudice to the

provision contained in sub- sections 1 to 3 of Section 11 and Section 11B , SEBI may,

in the interests of investors or securities market, pending investigation or on

completion of investigation, inter alia restrain persons from accessing the securities

market and prohibit any person associated with securities market to buy, sell or

deal in securities. Thus, in order to protect interests of investors, under Section

11(1) SEBI is empowered to take such measures as it thinks fit and further under Section 11(4) SEBI is empowered to restrain persons from accessing the securities

market and prohibit any person associated with securities market to buy, sell or

deal in securities for such period as it deems fit. 15. In the present case, SEBI has initiated proceedings against appellants in

relation to sale/purchase of underlying shares of issuer companies released on 42 redemption of GDRs, in the Indian securities market. According to SEBI, these

sale/purchase transactions carried out in India were detrimental to the investors in

India because, these transactions were carried out by appellants fraudulently

through the sellers/purchasers with whom appellants were connected and these

transactions were part of the fraudulent transactions carried out by appellants at

every stage of the GDR process. If SEBI during the course of investigation relating

to sale/purchase of underlying shares in the Indian securities market arrives at a

conclusion that the said transactions were carried out with a view to commit fraud

on investors in India and that fraudulent intention existed at every stage of the

GDR process up to the date of selling and purchasing underlying shares of issuer

companies, then SEBI would be within its jurisdiction to initiate proceedings and

take appropriate steps as it deems fit to protect interests of investors in India. In

such a case, jurisdiction vested in SEBI to take action against those who have

committed fraud on the investors in India, does not get divested merely because

the fraudulent intention on their part existed at every stage of the GDR process. 16. Power of SEBI, under Section 11(1) and 11(4) of SEBI Act, 1992, is wide

enough to take such measures as it deems fit and extends to restrain not only

persons involved in the transaction from accessing the securities market, but also

prohibit any person associated with securities market to buy, sell or deal in

securities. Therefore, if SEBI on investigation arrives at a conclusion that appellants

were persons associated with transaction of sale/purchase of underlying shares in

India and those transactions were detrimental to interests of inventors in India,

then SEBI would be justified in invoking jurisdiction under Section 11(1) and 11(4) of SEBI Act, 1992. 17. Entire case of appellants is that no action could be taken against appellants

who acted as lead managers to GDRs which were created and issued outside India,

subscribed to by investors outside India and traded on stock exchanges outside

India. There is no merit in the above contention, because, SEBI has not taken action

against appellants for their role in relation to issuance/trading in GDRs, but in

relation to their role in sale/purchase of underlying shares in India, which

according to SEBI was with fraudulent intention. It is neither the case of SEBI that

issuance/trading in GDRs outside India were contrary to 1993 Scheme, nor

contrary to the guidelines framed by RBI. Entire case of SEBI is that sale/purchase

of underlying shares in the securities market in India (after conversion of GDRs

created/sold/traded outside India) were part of a sinister motive and that sinister

motive existed right from the date of acquiring shares through GDR mechanism. In

such a case, where fraud is alleged to have been committed by persons connected

with transactions carried out in India, SEBI would be justified in invoking

jurisdiction under SEBI Act, 1992 and take appropriate measures as it deems fit. 18. Once it is seen that in the present case, investigation initiated and the

measures taken by SEBI related to transactions that took place in the securities

market in India, then argument of appellants that SEBI has no jurisdiction to

investigate into issuance/trading of GDRs outside India becomes wholly besides

the point and not relevant to the facts of present case. Accordingly, argument

based on decision of Apex Court in G.M. Telecom (supra) that GDRs are issued

under special provisions contained in 1993 Scheme which are beyond the

regulatory powers of SEBI becomes wholly irrelevant, because, in the present case,

SEBI has neither found fault in issuance of GDRs nor found fault with trading in 44 GDRs outside India, nor SEBI has tried to regulate GDR mechanism. All that has

been done by SEBI is to protect interests of investors in India by restraining

appellants from entering capital market in India, on the ground that they were

connected with transaction in securities market which were detrimental to the

interests of investors in India, because, fact that appellants had subscribed to GDRs

through entities controlled by appellant no.2, transferred GDRs to entities

controlled by appellant no.2 and thereafter sold underlying shares released on

cancellation of GDRs in the Indian securities market to entities controlled by

appellant no.2 were suppressed from the public. There can be no dispute that in

the matter of protecting interests of investors in India, SEBI has absolute powers

under SEBI Act, 1992 . Fact that not all GDRs but only part of GDRs held by

entities controlled by appellants were in fact converted and underlying shares

were sold in the Indian securities market makes no difference, because, for

invoking jurisdiction under SEBI Act, 1992 , it is not necessary that all GDRs must

be converted and if the transactions carried out after conversion of GDRs were

found to be detrimental to the interests of investors in India, SEBI would be within

its powers to invoke jurisdiction under SEBI Act, 1992 . 19. Specific finding recorded in the impugned order is that appellants caused

false information to be published on the website of stock exchanges regarding

subscription of GDRs by foreign investors, when in fact, appellants had entered

into prohibitory arrangement with issuer companies in India, under which,

ordinary shares raised through GDR mechanism were under the control of Arun

Panchariya (appellant no.2) at all stages and ultimately some of those shares were

sold/purchased in the securities market in India by entities controlled by Arun 45 Panchariya. Since these transactions were detrimental to the investors in India,

action has been taken against appellants. Thus, in the present case, investigation initiated and action taken is with reference

to the transactions carried out in India, which is within the scope of powers, vested

in SEBI under the SEBI Act, 1992 and the regulations made thereunder. 20. Accordingly, first question raised in this appeal is answered thus: where

SEBI finds that the transactions relating to sale/purchase of underlying shares in

the securities market in India (after conversion of GDRs created/sold/traded

outside India) are fraudulent transactions and that fraudulent intention existed

right from the date of issuance of shares through GDR mechanism, then, SEBI

would be justified in invoking jurisdiction under SEBI Act, 1992 and debar persons

connected with such transactions from rendering services in connection with

instruments that are defined as securities (as in section 2(h) of SCRA, 1956) in the

Indian market for such period as it deems fit and further prohibit persons involved

in such fraudulent transactions from accessing the capital market directly or

indirectly for such period as it deems fit. 21. Second question raised in this appeal is, assuming SEBI has jurisdiction,

whether, on facts, SEBI is justified in debarring appellants from rendering services

in connection with instruments that are defined as securities under Section 2(h) of

SCRA for a period of 10 years and further prohibiting appellants from accessing

the capital market directly or indirectly under the SEBI Act, 1992 and the

regulations framed thereunder for a period of 10 years. 22. Finding of facts recorded in the impugned order at para 5.1 to para 5.3.3.8

read thus:- 5.3.2 Steps 1 - Issuance of GDRs

5.3.2.1 As the Issuer Company is ready to issue GDRs in the Luxembourg market,
 Vintage (controlled by Panchariya) signs a loan agreement with
 European American Investment Bank AG (hereinafter referred to as
 "Euram") for issue of loan (Subscription Loan) for the purpose of
 subscription of GDRs. This loan agreement is signed by Panchariya on
 behalf of Vintage. 5.3.2.2 The nature and purpose of the agreement states clearly that the loan is
 being provided to enable Vintage to take down the specified GDR issue
 of the Issuer Company. Further, according to the Loan Agreement, the
 amount may only be transferred to the account of that Issuer Company
 maintained with Euram. The aforesaid account of the Issuer Company
 mentioned in the Loan Agreement of Vintage is the same account where
 Issuer Company shows its GDR subscription proceeds as deposited (GDR
 Account). 5.3.2.3 Simultaneously, the Issuer company also signs a Pledge Agreement with
 Euram wherein inter alia, following is pledged by the issuer company to
 Euram: 5.3.2.4 Further, the Pledge Agreement is also part of the Loan Agreement and
 vice versa. The Pledge Agreement in its preamble states that - "...The
 Pledgor (Issuer Company) has received a copy of the Loan Agreement
 and acknowledges and agrees to its terms and conditions."

5.3.2.5 The following is also secured as per the Loan Agreement -  "...In order to secure all and any of the Bank's claims and
 entitlements against the Borrower (Vintage).......... it is hereby
 irrevocably agreed that the following securities and any other
 securities which may be required by the Bank from time to time
 shall be given to the Bank as provided herein or in any other
 form or manner as may be demanded by the Bank.....  Pledge of certain securities held from time to time in the
 Borrower's account no ... at the Bank as set out in a separate
 pledge agreement which is attached hereto as Annex which
 forms an integral part of this Loan Agreement.  Pledge of the GDR Account of the Borrower held with the Bank
 as set out in a separate pledge agreement which is attached hereto
 as Annex and which forms an integral part of this Loan
 Agreement." 5.3.2.6 The GDR account referred above is the same account wherein the issuer
 company (Asahi), has deposited the subscription proceeds of the GDR
 issue. From the above, it is observed that the GDR Account is held in the
 name of each issuer company while, for all intents and purposes, the
 actual control of said account ultimately vests with Vintage
 (effectively Panchariya), as the account is kept as collateral for the loan
 availed by Vintage. 5.3.2.7 As a result of the Loan Agreement and the Pledge Agreement, the
 Subscription Loan provided to Vintage by Euram is used to acquire the
 GDRs of Issuer Company by Vintage. This Subscription Loan is thus
 deposited as Subscription fund in the GDR Account of Issuer Company
 which is pledged by the Issuer Company with Euram as security against
 the Loan provided to Vintage. 5.3.2.8 The Issuer Company then issues GDRs to Initial investors through
 Overseas Depository Bank. In the cases investigated by SEBI, it is
 observed that the GDRs were transferred not to the account of initial
 investors but to the security account of Vintage maintained with Euram.
 The issuer companies and Pan Asia have provided a list of initial
 investors to whom GDRs were issued. However, as per documents
 available with SEBI, it is observed that GDRs have been credited to the
 securities account of Vintage held with Euram on the day of GDR
 issuance and a payment for GDRs is made from the Euram Account of
 Vintage to the GDR Account of Issuer Company. From the foregoing it
 is clear that the GDRs were directly issued to Vintage. The list of initial
 investors of GDRs provided to SEBI by the issuer companies,
 therefore is a list designed to camouflage the name of the actual investor
 i.e. Vintage and mislead the shareholders of the company and the market. 49 5.3.2.9 There is no real or effective movement of funds involved (as observed
 from Paras 5.3.2.1 to Paras 5.3.2.8). By way of entries in the books of
 Euram, funds are released from loan account of Vintage to GDR account
 of issuer company and are kept as collateral with Euram. Thus, without
 any actual inflow of funds into the company, the issuer Company is
 successful in issuing large amount of GDRs which gives a respectable
 appearance to the financial statement of the company, which is
 misleading. In reality, few book entries result in large surge in the capital
 of the company. Thus, these GDRs are created without any purchase
 transactions or for any cost (apart from interest and commission earned
 by Euram). 5.3.2.10 The initial investors to the GDRs appear to be just fictitious/front entities
 created by Panchariya and Pan Asia. Efforts to contact these original
 investors were futile. Emails sent have bounced. Letters sent to these
 investors have also returned undelivered. SEBI also sought help of
 regulators of respective jurisdiction where these investors have been
 stated to be based. Foreign regulators have been unable to locate these
 investors. 5.3.2.11 Following are the details of the GDRs issued by the companies examined
 by SEBI. 5.3.2.12 From the above table, it is clear that the amount of capital raised via
 issuing GDRs is significantly large when compared to existing capital of
 the companies. 5.3.2.13 For the purpose of subscription of the GDRs of the aforementioned Issuer
 Companies, loan agreements were signed by various entities with the
 banks. This loan was then utilised for subscribing to the GDRs of the
 Issuer Companies. 5.3.2.14 Following are the details of loan agreements signed for the purpose of
 subscription of GDRs of Issuer Companies. Vintage held with Euram. Subsequently, Vintage through over the
 counter transactions, sold the GDRs to FIIs such as IFCF and KII for the
 purpose of purchasing GDRs. The GDRs were then converted into
 underlying shares and these shares were sold in the Indian market.

 5.3.3.2 Financial Market Authority (Austria) (hereinafter referred to as
 "FMA"), vide its letter dated March 27, 2012 informed SEBI that the
 major investor in Class A shares of IFCF was Vintage, whose owner was
 Alkarni Holdings Ltd. Alkarni Holding Ltd has Panchariya and his
 family members as shareholders. 5.3.3.3 Arrangements between Credo, KII and Vintage for dealing in GDRs of
 Issuer Companies have been observed. Vintage signed a loan agreement
 with Credo, wherein it provided loan to Credo to further lend it to KII so
 that KII can purchase GDRs of Issuer Companies and convert into shares
 to sell in Indian Markets. According to this agreement signed by
 Panchariya himself on behalf of Vintage, the market risk of these
 transactions in GDRs by KII was borne by Vintage. Thus, the dealings of
 KII in the GDRs of Issuer Companies were financed and controlled by
 Panchariya. 5.3.3.4 It is observed that IFCF and KII started dealing in the GDRs of Issuer
 Companies from June 2009 and after that no other FII/Sub-Account has
 cancelled GDRs of Issuer Companies except KII and IFCF. Following 51 table provides details of cancellation of GDRs of Issuer Companies done
 by KII and IFCF as on June 30, 2012. cancelling GDRs and converting to shares by IFCF and KII was done
 entirely under direct control of Panchariya. 5.3.3.6 To summarise, the funds for the purchase of GDRs are provided by
 Panchariya to FIIs, either by direct investment in the fund like IFCF or by
 entering into contractual agreement and providing loan to FIIs/Sub-
 Accounts (e.g. KII, etc). In reality, funds have only moved from one
 Panchariya controlled company (IFCF, KII) to another Panchariya
 controlled company (Vintage) and vice versa. 5.3.3.7 These Sub-Accounts then dump the shares of the Issuer companies
 received post cancellation in Indian Stock Markets and realize the
 proceeds. The sale of such shares by Sub-Accounts in Indian Markets is
 the only step where funds/proceeds have been provided by entities not
 under control of Panchariya i.e. Indian investors. Thus, it is the Indian
 Investors, and not the foreign investors, who have ultimately paid for the
 GDRs. 5.3.3.8 Investigations have revealed that all the Issuer Companies have utilised
 majority of the GDR issue proceeds through their foreign subsidiaries 52 in other countries. Majority of these foreign subsidiaries have following
 common aspects - a. Most of these are based in free zones of U.A.E.
 b. In almost all the case, the major portion of the GDR issue (100% in
 one of the case viz. CAT) is directly transferred to foreign
 subsidiary and is not repatriated to India. c. Mostly, these have been incorporated during or after the period
 of GDR issue. d. These are mostly trading companies generally dealing in
 commodities/ products unrelated to the business of parent
 company. e. They have financial transactions with Vintage, Initial investors of
 GDR issues of other companies and foreign subsidiaries of other
 companies which have issued GDRs managed by Panchariya and
 Pan Asia. 23. On the basis of aforesaid finding of facts set out in the impugned order, it is

held that Arun Panchariya (appellant no.2), Managing Director of appellant no.1

had connived with issuer companies in India in raising shares of issuer companies

through GDR mechanism and ultimately selling those shares in the Indian market

to the detriment of the investors in India. According to SEBI, the modus operandi

adopted by appellants was, (a) as lead manager take necessary steps under the

1993 Scheme for issuance of ordinary shares through GDR mechanism, (b)

subscribe GDRs through Vintage FZE (Vintage) an entity controlled by Arun

Panchariya outside India, (c) Vintage would then sell GDRs to FII/sub-accounts

such as IFCF & KII which are controlled by Arun Panchariya, (d) IFCF & KII

would then cancel the GDRs and get the underlying shares under the 1993 Scheme

released from the domestic custodian bank in India, (e) IFCF & KII would then sell

those underlying shares in the securities market in India (after the issuer

companies inform concerned stock exchanges in India which in turn inform

general public in India that GDRs issued have been fully subscribed by investors 53 outside India) to entities such as Alka, Oudh, Basmati & SV with which Arun

Panchariya is connected. 24. On consideration of above facts, by the impugned order, SEBI has held that

appellants have violated provisions of SEBI Act, 1992 and also violated provisions

of SEBI (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices relating to Securities

Market) Regulations, 2003 ('PFUTP Regulations' for short). The violations found by

SEBI can be summarized thus:- Investigation revealed that stock exchanges in India were informed

 that GDRs of issuer companies have been subscribed by various

 initial subscribers, when in fact, GDRs were subscribed by Vintage, a

 company controlled by Arun Panchariya. Further investigation

 revealed that the entities which were claimed to be initial investors

 were fictitious/non-existent entities, save and except Rexflec Ltd.

 (later on name changed to Pan Asia Management Ltd.) which was an

 entity controlled by Arun Panchariya. Though appellants had not

 furnished list of initial subscribers to the stock exchanges, in view of

 collusion between appellants and issuer companies in raising shares

 through GDR mechanism and appellants being in control of shares

 raised through GDR mechanism at all stages up to the stage of selling

 those shares in Indian market, appellants were liable as persons

 associated with the transaction in question in the security market in

 India. (d) Thus, appellants as lead manager were instrumental in raising

 ordinary shares of issuer companies under 1993 Scheme, get those

 shares deposited with the Domestic Custodian Bank and get GDRs

 issued outside India, then subscribe those GDRs through Vintage

 (controlled by Arun Panchariya), get GDRs transferred to IFCF and

 KII which were also controlled by Arun Panchariya. IFCF and KII

 would then convert GDRs into underlying shares and sell those

 shares in the Indian securities market to entities such as Alka, Oudh, 55 Basmati and SV with which Arun Panchariya was connected. Thus

 all the entities involved in the fraudulent scheme from the stage of

 subscribing to GDRs up to sale of underlying shares in the securities

 market in India were owned and/or controlled by Arun Panchariya. (e) Even before GDRs were issued, appellants caused issuer companies

 to execute pledge agreement with Euram Bank which records that

 Vintage has taken loan from Euram Bank for subscribing GDRs and

 that loan amount credited to a particular account shall be pledged by

 issuer companies in favour of Euram to secure loan taken by Vintage

 for subscribing GDRs. Suppressing these facts, investors in India

 were informed by advertisement on website of stock exchanges that

 GDRs have been fully subscribed by foreign investors. 25. On behalf of appellants, it is contended, by relying on a decision of Apex

Court in case of N. Venkataramana Hebbar vs. M. Rajagopal Hebbar reported in

(2007) 6 SCC 401, that since SEBI, in spite of repeated reminders, failed to file reply

to the Appeal, submissions made in the memorandum of appeal must be deemed

to be admitted. There is no merit in the above contention, because, question before

the Apex Court in that case was, where there is no denial or assertion made in the

written statement, whether allegations made in the plaint are deemed to be

admitted. In that context, Apex Court referring to rule 3 and rule 5 of Order VIII of

Code of Civil Procedure held that where a plea raised in the suit is not specifically

traversed in the written statement, then the Court is entitled to draw an adverse

inference that the same has been admitted. In the present case, based on the

investigation report and after hearing appellants, impugned order has been 56 passed. Correctness of impugned order has to be judged on basis of reasons

recorded therein and not on basis of reply to memorandum of appeal. Therefore,

reliance placed on the decision of Apex Court in the case of N. Venkataramana

Hebbar (supra) is misplaced. 26. On merits of the case, it is contended on behalf of appellants that neither the

appellants have published/reported nor caused to be published/reported any

advertisement or planted any news and hence appellants could not be said to have

violated Regulation 4(2)(f) , (k) and (4) of PFTUP Regulations. It is contended that

BSE accepts only 'Corporate Announcements' that are made by listed companies

and not by any third parties such as appellants. As regards discrepancy relating to

list of initial subscribers to GDRs, it is contended that appellants have not

furnished any list of initial subscribers to the stock exchanges. It could have been

supplied to stock exchanges either by issuer companies or by Overseas Depository

Banks. In the present case, Overseas Depository Banks were Deutsche Bank and

Bank of New York who created and issued GDRs to whoever were the initial

subscribers. Ex facie, they would be the only parties responsible for the same. Yet,

respondent does not appear to have made any inquiry with them or taken any

proceedings against them. It is further contended that it was not the duty of

appellant no.1 to verify details of initial subscribers to GDRs and in fact regulators

in U.K. and Austria have neither found any fault with the actions of appellants as

lead managers nor found fault with the actions of respective Overseas Depository

Banks. In any event, alleged discrepancy, if any, in the list of initial subscribers to

GDRs do not amount to publishing or reporting or advertisement of false

information or planting of any misleading news by appellants and therefore in the 57 absence of any law, rule or regulation by appellants, the impugned order is liable

to be set aside. 27. It is difficult to accept above arguments advanced on behalf of appellants.

Under 1993 Scheme, lead manager to GDR issue has major role to play right from

seeking final approval from DEA to go ahead with GDR issue (see clause 3.3 of

1993 Scheme) up to taking necessary steps for issuance of GDRs (see clause 5.4 of

1993 Scheme). Every decision relating to structure of GDRs has to be finalized by

issuer companies in consultation with lead manager to the issue. Lead manager is

a person responsible for marketing the GDR issue. Therefore, ordinarily lead

manager to GDRs would be aware of persons who are initial subscribers to GDRs. 28. Assuming that in a given case lead manager may not be aware of details of

initial investors, in the present case, it is a matter of record that GDRs of issuer

companies were held by Vintage, a company controlled by Arun Panchariya. In

fact, Vintage through its authorized signatory Arun Panchariya had secured loans

from Euram Bank for subscribing to GDRs of issuer companies. For example, loan

agreement dated April 21, 2009 (page 199 of the paperbook) between Euram and

Vintage specifically records that loan of US $ 5,982,000.00 has been granted to

Vintage with a view to provide funds to Vintage to take down GDR issue of Asahi

(one of the companies investigated by SEBI). Clause 2 of the said loan agreement

provides that funds advanced by Euram Bank may only be transferred to the

account mentioned therein, viz. "Euram account No.:540030, Asahi Infrastructure

& Projects Ltd." Clause 6 of the loan agreement provides that security for the loan

would be Pledge Agreement attached as Annexure 2 to the loan agreement

forming part of the loan agreement. It is not in dispute that Pledge Agreement 58 (page 215 of the paperbook) has been executed by and between Euram Bank and

Asahi (issuer company) on April 21, 2009 itself as per Annexure 2, wherein it is

recorded that all the amounts lying in Account No:540030 with Euram Bank

would stand pledged. Clause 6.1 of Pledge Agreement provides that Euram Bank

was entitled to apply funds lying in the Account pledged by issuer company,

towards settlement of its dues in the event Vintage not repaying the loan amount

to Euram Bank and redeem the pledge. Clause 1 of the Pledge Agreement dated

April 21, 2009 between Euram and Asahi expressly records that Asahi

acknowledges and agrees to the terms and conditions contained in the loan

agreement between Euram and Vintage signed by Arun Panchariya as authorized

signatory. Thus, Arun Panchariya as authorized signatory of Vintage having

secured loans from Euram Bank for subscription of GDRs of issuer companies and

getting Pledge Agreement executed between Euram and issuer companies for

securing the loan obtained by Vintage, cannot now turn around and state that

appellants are not initial subscribers to the GDRs of issuer companies, especially

when GDRs were in fact held by Vintage. It is relevant to note that modus

operandi adopted by appellants with Asahi was also adopted in all the remaining

five issuer companies. 29. Although Vintage had taken loan from Euram Bank for subscribing GDRs

and issuer companies had secured Euram Bank by pledging the very same loan

amount, it appears that appellants got GDRs issued in the name of several entities

and on the very same day on which GDRs were issued, got the GDRs transferred

in the name of Vintage, a company of which Arun Panchariya was the authorized

signatory. In view of finding that the alleged initial subscribers were non-

existent/fictitious entities and in view of evidence on record that Vintage through 59 its authorized signatory Arun Panchariya had secured loan for subscribing to

GDRs even before issuance of GDRs and in fact GDRs were transferred in the

name of Vintage on the day on which GDRs were issued, inference drawn by SEBI

that GDRs were in fact subscribed to by Vintage cannot be faulted. These facts,

coupled with the fact that loan amount sanctioned by Euram Bank to Vintage were

deposited in a particular account for subscribing to GDRs of issuer companies and

amounts in that account were pledged by issuer companies were suppressed from

investors in India, because of the collusion between appellants and issuer

companies. 30. It is true that appellants themselves have not published any news in India

regarding subscription of GDRs. However, from facts set out hereinabove, it is

abundantly clear that the appellants were architects of a fraudulent scheme in

connivance with issuer companies under which ordinary shares of issuer

companies were to be raised through GDR mechanism under 1993 Scheme, Arun

Panchariya was to subscribe GDRs through Vintage, transfer GDRs to entities

controlled Arun Panchariya, who in turn would convert GDRs into underlying

shares and sell those shares in the Indian securities market to entities controlled

Arun Panchariya. Funds from subscription of GDRs were pledged by issuer

companies to secure the loan taken by Vintage for subscribing GDRs, but investors

in India were informed that GDRs have been subscribed by foreign investors. In

these circumstances, collusion between appellants and issuer companies is

apparent and therefore, inference drawn by SEBI that appellants were involved at

every stage from raising ordinary shares through GDR mechanism up to the stage

of sale/purchase of underlying shares in the Indian securities market were liable to 60 be treated as persons associated with the transaction in question in the securities

market and accordingly liable for action under SEBI Act, 1992 and regulations

made thereunder cannot be faulted. 31. Loan agreement/pledge agreement as also issuance of GDRs may not be per

se illegal. But by informing investors in India that GDRs are fully subscribed by

investors outside India and by selling/buying through the entities controlled by

Arun Panchariya, investors are made to believe that with huge foreign funds the

issuer companies have bright future, when actual facts are to the contrary. No

doubt, Vintage is a foreign investor, but Vintage was admittedly controlled by

Panchariya and even before GDRs were issued, Arun Panchariya got GDR

subscription amount pledged by issuer companies in favour of Euram Bank from

whom Vintage had obtained loan for subscribing the GDRs. Since these facts were

not disclosed to the investors in India, appellants as persons associated with

securities market have violated SEBI Act, 1992 and the Regulations made

thereunder. Fact that no action has been taken against Overseas Depository Bank

or Vintage or other entities involved in the transaction by regulators in U.K. and

Austria, cannot be a ground for appellants to escape liability, as it is the appellants

who have acted to the detriment of investors in India. 32. It was contended on behalf of appellants that without any basis, findings

have been recorded in the impugned order that actual source of funding the GDRs

were by selling shares of issuer companies in the Indian market. It is further

contended that findings in the impugned order that SEBI has no material to show

regarding end use of the GDR proceeds after release of funds by Euram Bank,

amounts to admission on the part of SEBI that the issuer companies in fact, 61 received the GDR proceeds, which in turn belies the allegation that GDR proceeds

were mere book entries and the issuer companies did not actually receive the

same. 33. There is no merit in the above contentions. As noted earlier, to subscribe

GDRs of issuer companies, Vintage had obtained loan from Euram Bank and loan

amount was credited to "Euram account no:540030 Asahi Infrastructure & Projects

Ltd." and Asahi has pledged the amount in that account to Euram Bank for

securing the loan obtained by Vintage from Euram Bank. Thus Vintage as also

Asahi have considered aforesaid account as the account of Asahi and Vintage.

Since GDR subscription amounts were pledged by issuer companies in favour of

Euram Bank as security towards loan obtained by Vintage, it is evident that the

said GDR subscription amount was available to the issuer companies only after

loan amount was repaid by Vintage to Euram Bank. Since GDRs were cancelled

immediately after issuance of GDRs and underlying shares were sold in the Indian

market to the entities controlled by Panchariya, it could be said that funds for

GDRs were from sale of underlying shares released on conversion of GDRs.

Assuming that it was not so, even then fact remains that investors in India were

kept in dark about the fraudulent manner in which ordinary shares were raised

through GDR mechanism and thereafter sold in the securities market in India. 34. It is relevant to note that as per the pledge agreement between Euram and

Asahi dated April 21, 2009, Euram Bank was entitled to apply the funds lying in

the account pledged by Asahi, toward settlement of its dues in the event Vintage

not repaying the loan amount due and payable by Vintage to Euram Bank and

redeeming the pledge. Thus GDR subscription amount was not available to the 62 issuer companies till loan amount was repaid by Vintage to Euram Bank and the

pledge was redeemed. It appears that in some cases Vintage has repaid the loan

after considerably log period. Fact that SEBI could not find out as to how funds in

"Euram Account No:540030 Asahi Infrastructure & Projects Ltd." were utilized

after the pledge under Pledge Agreement was redeemed, does not in any way

support the case of appellants, because, action is taken against appellants for

colluding with issuer companies and misrepresenting the investors in India that

foreign funds are available to issuer companies on account of GDRs being fully

subscribed by investors outside India, when in fact no such funds were available. It

is difficult to accept the contention of appellants that pledging GDR subscription

amount towards securing loan obtained by person subscribing GDRs, amounts to

utilizing the subscription amounts for business of the issuer companies. Thus, it is

beyond shadow of doubt that appellants in connivance with issuer companies

have caused misleading statements published on the website of stock exchanges

that the GDRs are fully subscribed by foreign investors, when in fact, GDRs were

subscribed by Vintage, a company controlled by Arun Panchariya and GDR

subscription amount was pledged by respective issuer companies in favour of

Euram Bank to secure the loan taken by Vintage for subscribing GDRs. 35. Apart from causing misleading information being given to investors in

India, appellants were instrumental in getting GDRs converted into underlying

shares through the entities like IFCF and KII (controlled by Arun Panchariya) and

sell those shares in the securities market in India to entities like Alka, Oudh,

Basmati and SV with which Arun Panchariya was connected. Thus motive of

appellant no.1 as lead manager to GDRs and appellant no.2 as its managing 63 director in connivance with issuer companies was to represent investors in India

that foreign investors consider it prudent to invest in issuer companies and thus,

GDRs have been fully subscribed by foreign investors. Moreover, by indulging in

brisk trading in the underlying shares of issuer companies in the securities market

in India by entities controlled by Arun Panchariya, investors were made to believe

that there is considerable demand in the securities market in respect of shares of

issuer companies. In these circumstances, decision of SEBI that appellants in

connivance with issuer companies have committed fraud upon the investors in

India and therefore, as persons associated with the transactions in the securities

market in India, appellants are liable for action under SEBI Act, 1992 and the

Regulations made thereunder cannot be faulted. 36. For all aforesaid reasons, both questions raised in the appeal are answered

in the affirmative, i.e. in favour of SEBI and against appellants. 37. Accordingly, appeal is dismissed with no order as to costs. Sd/- Justice J.P. Devadhar
 Presiding Officer

30/9/2013
ddg