The application filed U/ Sec.227 of Cr.P.C., by the accused
 No.27 Mr. M. Ramesh is hereby allowed and he is discharged for
 the offences punishable under Section 120B read with Section 420 , 406 , 218 and 409 of IPC and under Section 9 of Karnataka
 Protection of Interest of Depositor in Financial Establishments Act,
 2004 and Sec. 7 , 8 , 9 , 11 and 13(1)(d) r/w 13(2) of the Prevention
 of Corruption Act alleged against him." Insofar as it pertains to accused No.28 is concerned, the Court has

recorded the following reasons to discharge the said accused. It

reads as follows: ".... .... .... 46. By looking into the said aspects, what could be
 summed up is as follows: The allegations against both them are identical. Accused No.27,a

Police Inspector of Commercial Street Police Station was charged of

offences under the Prevention of Corruption Act . The concerned

Court holds that it is crystal clear that there is no incriminating

material or circumstance pointed against the said accused. The

Court holds that there is no case to frame charge against the

accused. The statements of Sri Wasim and Sri Naveed Ahmed are

taken note of. The statements pointed at handing over certain

money to accused No.27 as well, like in the case of the petitioner. The concerned Court holds that the entire gist of approver's

statement, on careful appreciation indicates that, there is no iota of

allegation levelled against the accused person of demanding illegal

gratification or handing over of the amount. There can be no cavil

of doubt that the petitioner is similarly placed. The allegations are

the same. The statement givers are the same and the statements

are also the same. Therefore, the petitioner also would become

entitled to the benefit or obliteration of proceedings against him as 33 is done against accused No.27 by the concerned Court apart from

what is narrated hereinabove. It is an added circumstance. 15. Now coming to accused No.28, the allegation against him

is identical to the allegation against the petitioner. There are entries

made of receiving huge sum of `70/-lakhs. This is also based upon

the statements made by the approvers. The concerned Court holds

that this cannot be so sacrosanct to become admissible in evidence. Though the case of accused No.28 would not cover the issue qua

the petitioner on all its fours, it is nonetheless obliteration of

proceedings against a public servant. It is necessary to notice the

submission of the learned counsel appearing for the petitioner that

the aforesaid two orders qua accused Nos. 27 and 28 have today

become final. Therefore, the benefit of those reasons apart from the

reasons rendered hereinabove would lead to obliteration of

proceedings against the petitioner. 16. The issue now would be whether the ingredients of Section 7 or 7 A of the Prevention of Corruption Act (' PC Act ' for 34 short) are even met in the remotest sense in the case at hand. Section 7 and 7A of the PC Act read as follows: or (b) obtains or accepts or attempts to obtain, an undue
 advantage from any person as a reward for the improper
 or dishonest performance of a public duty or for
 forbearing to perform such duty either by himself or
 another public servant; or (c) performs or induces another public servant to perform
 improperly or dishonestly a public duty or to forbear
 performance of such duty in anticipation of or in
 consequence of accepting an undue advantage from any
 person,

 shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not
 be less than three years but which may extend to seven years
 and shall also be liable to fine. Explanation 1.--For the purpose of this section, the
 obtaining, accepting, or the attempting to obtain an undue
 advantage shall itself constitute an offence even if the
 performance of a public duty by public servant, is not or has not
 been improper. Illustration.--A public servant, 'S' asks a person, 'P' to
 give him an amount of five thousand rupees to process his
 routine ration card application on time. 'S' is guilty of an offence
 under this section. Explanation 2.--For the purpose of this section,-- (i) the expressions "obtains" or "accepts" or "attempts to
 obtain" shall cover cases where a person being a public
 servant, obtains or "accepts" or attempts to obtain, any
 undue advantage for himself or for another person, by
 abusing his position as a public servant or by using his
 personal influence over another public servant; or by any
 other corrupt or illegal means; (ii) it shall be immaterial whether such person being a public
 servant obtains or accepts, or attempts to obtain the
 undue advantage directly or through a third party. 7-A. Taking undue advantage to influence public
 servant by corrupt or illegal means or by exercise of
 personal influence.--Whoever accepts or obtains or attempts
 to obtain from another person for himself or for any other
 person any undue advantage as a motive or reward to induce a
 public servant, by corrupt or illegal means or by exercise of his
 personal influence to perform or to cause performance of a
 public duty improperly or dishonestly or to forbear or to cause
 to forbear such public duty by such public servant or by another
 public servant, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term
 which shall not be less than three years but which may extend
 to seven years and shall also be liable to fine." Interpretation of Section 7 or 7 A of the PC Act need not detain this

Court for long or delve deep into the matter. The Apex Court

interpreting Sections 7 and 7A , has clearly indicated that there

should be demand and acceptance for the purpose of a duty or its

forbearance. The Apex Court right from 1955 interpreting the old PC Act up to the latest judgment has held as follows: The above position has been succinctly laid down in several
 judgments of this Court. By way of illustration reference may
 be made to the decision in C.M. Sharma v. State of
 A.P. [(2010) 15 SCC 1 : ( 2013) 2 SCC (Cri) 89] and C.M.
 Girish Babu v. CBI [(2009) 3 SCC 779: (2009) 2 SCC
 (Cri) 1]." (Emphasis supplied)

 The Apex Court later in N.VIJAYAKUMAR v. STATE OF

TAMILNADU2 has held as follows: ".... .... .... 26. It is equally well settled that mere recovery by
 itself cannot prove the charge of the prosecution against
 the accused. Reference can be made to the judgments of
 this Court in C.M. Girish Babu v. CBI [C.M. Girish 1 (2014) 13 SCC 55 2 (2021) 3 SCC 687 37 Babu v. CBI, (2009) 3 SCC 779 : (2009) 2 SCC (Cri) 1]
and in B. Jayaraj v. State of A.P. [B. Jayaraj v. State of
A.P., (2014) 13 SCC 55 : (2014) 5 SCC (Cri) 543] In the
aforesaid judgments of this Court while considering the
case under Sections 7 , 13(1)(d)(i) and (ii) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 it is reiterated that to
prove the charge, it has to be proved beyond reasonable doubt
that the accused voluntarily accepted money knowing it to be
bribe. Absence of proof of demand for illegal gratification and
mere possession or recovery of currency notes is not sufficient
to constitute such offence. In the said judgments it is also held
that even the presumption under Section 20 of the Act can be
drawn only after demand for and acceptance of illegal
gratification is proved. It is also fairly well settled that initial
presumption of innocence in the criminal jurisprudence gets
doubled by acquittal recorded by the trial court. 27. The relevant paras 7, 8 and 9 of the judgment
in B. Jayaraj [B. Jayaraj v. State of A.P. , (2014) 13 SCC
55 : (2014) 5 SCC (Cri) 543] read as under: (SCC pp. 58- 59)

 "7. Insofar as the offence under Section 7 is
 concerned, it is a settled position in law that demand
 of illegal gratification is sine qua non to constitute the
 said offence and mere recovery of currency notes
 cannot constitute the offence under Section 7 unless
 it is proved beyond all reasonable doubt that the
 accused voluntarily accepted the money knowing it to
 be a bribe. The above position has been succinctly laid down in several judgments of this Court. By way
 of illustration, reference may be made to the decision
 in C.M. Sharma v. State of A.P. [C.M. Sharma v. State
 of A.P., (2010) 15 SCC 1 : (2013) 2 SCC (Cri) 89]
 and C.M. Girish Babu v. CBI [C.M. Girish Babu v. CBI,
 (2009) 3 SCC 779 : (2009) 2 SCC (Cri) 1] . 8. In the present case, the complainant did not
 support the prosecution case insofar as demand by the
 accused is concerned. The prosecution has not examined
 any other witness, present at the time when the money was
 allegedly handed over to the accused by the complainant, to
 prove that the same was pursuant to any demand made by
 the accused. When the complainant himself had disowned
 what he had stated in the initial complaint (Ext. P-11) 38 before LW 9, and there is no other evidence to prove that
 the accused had made any demand, the evidence of PW 1
 and the contents of Ext. P-11 cannot be relied upon to come
 to the conclusion that the above material furnishes proof of
 the demand allegedly made by the accused. We are,
 therefore, inclined to hold that the learned trial court as well
 as the High Court was not correct in holding the demand
 alleged to be made by the accused as proved. The only
 other material available is the recovery of the tainted
 currency notes from the possession of the accused. In fact
 such possession is admitted by the accused himself. Mere
 possession and recovery of the currency notes from the
 accused without proof of demand will not bring home the
 offence under Section 7 . The above also will be conclusive
 insofar as the offence under Sections 13(1)(d)(i) and (ii) is
 concerned as in the absence of any proof of demand for
 illegal gratification, the use of corrupt or illegal means or
 abuse of position as a public servant to obtain any valuable
 thing or pecuniary advantage cannot be held to be
 established. 9. Insofar as the presumption permissible to be
 drawn under Section 20 of the Act is concerned, such
 presumption can only be in respect of the offence under Section 7 and not the offences under Sections 13(1)(d)(i) and (ii) of the Act. In any event, it is only on proof of
 acceptance of illegal gratification that presumption can be
 drawn under Section 20 of the Act that such gratification
 was received for doing or forbearing to do any official act.
 Proof of acceptance of illegal gratification can follow only if
 there is proof of demand. As the same is lacking in the
 present case the primary facts on the basis of which the
 legal presumption under Section 20 can be drawn are
 wholly absent." The abovesaid view taken by this Court fully supports the case
of the appellant. In view of the contradictions noticed by us
above in the depositions of key witnesses examined on behalf of
the prosecution, we are of the view that the demand for and
acceptance of bribe amount and cellphone by the appellant, is
not proved beyond reasonable doubt. Having regard to such
evidence on record the acquittal recorded by the trial court is a
"possible view" as such the judgment [ State of T.N. v. N.
Vijayakumar , 2020 SCC OnLine Mad 7098] of the High Court is
fit to be set aside. Before recording conviction under the
provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act , the courts have 39 to take utmost care in scanning the evidence. Once conviction is
 recorded under the provisions of the Prevention of Corruption
 Act , it casts a social stigma on the person in the society apart
 from serious consequences on the service rendered. At the
 same time it is also to be noted that whether the view taken by
 the trial court is a possible view or not, there cannot be any
 definite proposition and each case has to be judged on its own
 merits, having regard to evidence on record." (Emphasis supplied)

 The Apex Court later in the case of K.SHANTHAMMA v. STATE OF TELANGANA3 has held as follows: ".... .... .... 10. We have given careful consideration to the
 submissions. We have perused the depositions of the
 prosecution witnesses. The offence under Section 7 of the PC
 Act relating to public servants taking bribe requires a demand
 of illegal gratification and the acceptance thereof. The proof
 of demand of bribe by a public servant and its
 acceptance by him is sine qua non for establishing the
 offence under Section 7 of the PC Act. 11. In P. Satyanarayana Murthy v. State of A.P. [P.
 Satyanarayana Murthy v. State of A.P., (2015) 10 SCC 152 : settled law on the subject in para 23 which reads thus : (SCC
 p. 159)

 "23. The proof of demand of illegal gratification,
 thus, is the gravamen of the offence under Sections 7 and 13(1)(d)(i) and (ii) of the Act and in absence thereof,
 unmistakably the charge therefor, would fail. Mere
 acceptance of any amount allegedly by way of illegal
 gratification or recovery thereof, dehors the proof of
 demand, ipso facto, would thus not be sufficient to bring
 home the charge under these two sections of the Act. As a 3 (2022) 4 SCC 574 40 corollary, failure of the prosecution to prove the demand for
 illegal gratification would be fatal and mere recovery of the
 amount from the person accused of the offence under Section 7 or 13 of the Act would not entail his conviction
 thereunder." (emphasis supplied) 12. The prosecution's case is that the appellant had
kept pending the return of commercial tax filed by the said
Society for the year 1996-97. The appellant had issued a
notice dated 14-2-2000 to the said Society calling upon the
said Society to produce the record. Accordingly, the necessary
books were produced by the said Society. The case made out
by PW 1 is that when he repeatedly visited the office of the
appellant in February 2020, the demand of Rs 3000 by way of
illegal gratification was made by the appellant for passing the
assessment order. However, PW 1, in his cross-examination,
accepted that the notice dated 26-2-2000 issued by the
appellant was received by the said Society on 15-3-2000 in
which it was mentioned that after verification of the books of
accounts of the said Society, exemption from payment of
commercial tax as claimed by the said Society was allowed.
PW 1 accepted that it was stated in the said notice that there
was no necessity for the said Society to pay any commercial
tax for Assessment Year 1996-97. 13. According to the case of PW 1, on 23-3-2000, he
visited the appellant's office to request her to issue final
assessment order. According to his case, at that time, initially,
the appellant reiterated her demand of Rs 3000. But she
scaled it down to Rs 2000. Admittedly, on 15-3-2000, the said
Society was served with a notice informing the said Society
that an exemption has been granted from payment of
commercial tax to the said Society. Therefore, the said Society
was not liable to pay any tax for the year 1996-97. The issue
of the final assessment order was only a procedural formality.
Therefore, the prosecution's case about the demand of bribe
made on 23-3-2000 by the appellant appears to be highly
doubtful. 14. PW 1 described how the trap was laid. In the pre-
trap mediator report, it has been recorded that LW 8, Shri R.
Hari Kishan, was to accompany PW 1 -- complainant at the 41 time of offering the bribe. PW 7 Shri P.V.S.S.P. Raju deposed
that PW 8 Shri U.V.S. Raju, the Deputy Superintendent of
Police, ACB, had instructed LW 8 to accompany PW 1 --
complainant inside the chamber of the appellant. PW 8 has
accepted this fact by stating in the examination-in-chief that
LW 8 was asked to accompany PW 1 and observe what
transpires between the appellant and PW 1. PW 8, in his
evidence, accepted that only PW 1 entered the chamber of the
appellant and LW 8 waited outside the chamber. Even PW 7
admitted in the cross-examination that when PW 1 entered the
appellant's chamber, LW 8 remained outside in the corridor.
Thus, LW 8 was supposed to be an independent witness
accompanying PW 1. In breach of the directions issued to him
by PW 8, he did not accompany PW 1 inside the chamber of
the appellant, and he waited outside the chamber in the
corridor. The prosecution offered no explanation why LW 8 did
not accompany PW 1 inside the chamber of the appellant at
the time of the trap. 15. Therefore, PW 1 is the only witness to the alleged
demand and acceptance. According to PW 1, firstly, the
demand was made of Rs 3000 by the appellant on 24-2-2000.
Thereafter, continuously for three days, she reiterated the
demand when he visited the appellant's office. Lastly, the
appellant made the demand on 29-2-2000 and 23-3-2000. On
this aspect, he was cross-examined in detail by the learned
Senior Counsel appearing for the appellant. His version about
the demand and acceptance is relevant which reads thus: (emphasis supplied) 16. Thus, PW 1 did not state that the appellant
reiterated her demand at the time of trap. His version is that
on his own, he told her that he had brought the amount. What
is material is the cross-examination on this aspect. In the
cross-examination, PW 1 accepted that his version regarding
the demand made by the appellant on various dates was an
improvement. The relevant part of the cross-examination of
the appellant reads thus: (emphasis supplied) 17. Thus, the version of PW 1 in his examination-in-chief
about the demand made by the appellant from time to time is
an improvement. As stated earlier, LW 8 did not enter the
appellant's chamber at the time of trap. There is no other
evidence of the alleged demand. Thus, the evidence of PW 1
about the demand for bribe by the appellant is not at all
reliable. Hence, we conclude that the demand made by the
appellant has not been conclusively proved. 18. PW 2, Shri B.D.V. Ramakrishna had no personal
knowledge about the demand. However, he accepted that on
15-3-2000, the said Society received a communication
informing that the said Society need not pay any tax for the
year 1996-97. PW 3 Shri L. Madhusudhan was working as
Godown Incharge with the said Society. He stated that on 15-3-
2000, when he visited the appellant's office, ACTO served the
original notice dated 26-2-2000 in which it was mentioned that 44 the Society was not liable to pay any tax. It is his version that
 when he met the appellant on the same day, she enquired
 whether he had brought the demanded amount of Rs 3000.
 However, PW 3 did not state that the appellant demanded the
 said amount for granting any favour to the said society. 19. PW 4 Ahmed Moinuddin was ACTO at the relevant
 time. He deposed that on 27-3-2000, the appellant instructed
 him to prepare the final assessment order, which was kept
 ready in the morning. He stated that he was called at 6 p.m. to
 the chamber of the appellant along with books of the said
 Society. At that time, PW 1 was sitting there. He stated that the
 appellant subscribed her signature on a Register of the said
 Society and put the date as 26-2-2000 below it. He was not a
 witness to the alleged demand. However, in the cross-
 examination, he admitted that the appellant had served a memo
 dated 21-3-2000 to him alleging that he was careless in
 performing his duties." (Emphasis supplied)

The afore-quoted judgments were rendered interpreting Section 7 as it stood prior to amendment. The Apex Court holds that demand

and acceptance are sine quo non for an offence under Section 7 . Judgments post amendment: Whoever, being, or expecting to be a public
 servant, accepts or obtains or agrees to accept or
 attempts to obtain from any person, for himself or for any
 other person, any gratification whatever, other than legal
 remuneration, as a motive or reward for doing or
 forbearing to do any official act or for showing or
 forbearing to show, in the exercise of his official
 functions, favour or disfavour to any person or for
 rendering or attempting to render any service or
 disservice to any person, with the Central Government or
 any State Government or Parliament or the Legislature of
 any State or with any local authority, corporation or
 Government company referred to in clause (c) of section
 2 , or with any public servant, whether named or
 otherwise, shall be punishable with imprisonment which
 shall be not less than three years but which may extend
 to seven years and shall also be liable to fine. Explanations.- (a) "Expecting to be a public servant"- If a person not
 expecting to be in office obtains a gratification by
 deceiving others into a belief that he is about to be
 in office, and that he will then serve them, he may
 be guilty of cheating, but he is not guilty of the
 offence defined in this section. (b) "Gratification". The word "gratification" is not
 restricted to pecuniary gratifications or to
 gratifications estimable in money. (c) "Legal remuneration"- The words "legal
 remuneration" are not restricted to remuneration
 which a public servant can lawfully demand, but
 include all remuneration which he is permitted by
 the Government or the organisation, which he
 serves, to accept. (d) "A motive or reward for doing". A person who
 receives a gratification as a motive or reward for
 doing what he does not intend or is not in a
 position to do, or has not done, comes within this
 expression. (e) Where a public servant induces a person
 erroneously to believe that his influence with the
 Government has obtained a title for that person
 and thus induces that person to give the public
 servant, money or any other gratification as a
 reward for this service, the public servant has
 committed an offence under this section." 9. Section 13(1)(d) , as existed at the relevant time,
reads thus: 10. The demand for gratification and the acceptance
thereof are sine qua non for the offence punishable under Section 7 of the PC Act. 11. The Constitution Bench4 was called upon to decide
the question which we have quoted earlier. In paragraph 74, the
conclusions of the Constitution have been summarised, which
read thus: Of course, the said presumption is also subject to
 rebuttal. Section 20 does not apply to Section
 13(1)(d)(i) and (ii) of the Act. (h) We clarify that the presumption in law
 under Section 20 of the Act is distinct from
 presumption of fact referred to above in point (e) as the former is a mandatory
 presumption while the latter is discretionary in
 nature." (emphasis added) 12. The referred question was answered in paragraph 76
of the aforesaid judgment, which reads thus: (emphasis added) 50 13. Even the issue of presumption under Section 20 of
the PC Act has been answered by the Constitution Bench by
holding that only on proof of the facts in issue, Section 20 mandates the Court to raise a presumption that illegal
gratification was for the purpose of motive or reward as
mentioned in Section 7 (as it existed prior to the amendment of
2018). In fact, the Constitution Bench has approved two
decisions by the benches of three Hon'ble Judges in the cases
of B. Jayaraj1 and P. Satyanarayana Murthy2. There is another
decision of a three Judges' bench in the case of N.
Vijayakumar v. State of Tamil Nadu5 , which follows the view
taken in the cases of B. Jayaraj1 and P. Satyanarayana
Murthy2. In paragraph 9 of the decision in the case of B.
Jayaraj1, this Court has dealt with the presumption under Section 20 of the PC Act. In paragraph 9, this Court held thus: (emphasis added) 14. The presumption under Section 20 can be invoked
only when the two basic facts required to be proved under Section 7 , are proved. The said two basic facts are 'demand' and
'acceptance' of gratification. The presumption under Section 20 is that unless the contrary is proved, the acceptance of
gratification shall be presumed to be for a motive or reward, as
contemplated by Section 7 . It means that once the basic facts of
the demand of illegal gratification and acceptance thereof are
proved, unless the contrary are proved, the Court will have to
presume that the gratification was demanded and accepted as a
motive or reward as contemplated by Section 7 . However, this
presumption is rebuttable. Even on the basis of the 51 preponderance of probability, the accused can rebut the
presumption. 15. In the case of N. Vijayakumar5, another bench of
three Hon'ble Judges dealt with the issue of presumption under Section 20 and the degree of proof required to establish the
offences punishable under Section 7 and clauses (i) and (ii) Section 13(1)(d) read with Section 13(2) of PC Act. In
paragraph 26, the bench held thus: (emphasis added) 16. Thus, the demand for gratification and its acceptance
must be proved beyond a reasonable doubt. 17. Section 7 , as existed prior to 26th July 2018, was
different from the present Section 7 . The unamended Section 7 which is applicable in the present case, specifically refers to
"any gratification". The substituted Section 7 does not use the
word "gratification", but it uses a wider term "undue
advantage". When the allegation is of demand of gratification
and acceptance thereof by the accused, it must be as a motive
or reward for doing or forbearing to do any official act. The fact 52 that the demand and acceptance of gratification were for motive
or reward as provided in Section 7 can be proved by invoking
the presumption under Section 20 provided the basic allegations
of the demand and acceptance are proved. In this case, we are
also concerned with the offence punishable under clauses (i)
and (ii) Section 13(1)(d) which is punishable under Section
13(2) of the PC Act. Clause (d) of sub-section (1) of Section 13 ,
which existed on the statute book prior to the amendment of
26th July 2018, has been quoted earlier. On a plain reading of
clauses (i) and (ii) of Section 13(1)(d) , it is apparent that proof
of acceptance of illegal gratification will be necessary to prove
the offences under clauses (i) and (ii) of Section 13(1)(d) . In
view of what is laid down by the Constitution Bench, in a given
case, the demand and acceptance of illegal gratification by a
public servant can be proved by circumstantial evidence in the
absence of direct oral or documentary evidence. While
answering the referred question, the Constitution Bench has
observed that it is permissible to draw an inferential deduction
of culpability and/or guilt of the public servant for the offences
punishable under Sections 7 and 13(1)(d) read with Section
13(2) of the PC Act. The conclusion is that in absence of direct
evidence, the demand and/or acceptance can always be proved
by other evidence such as circumstantial evidence. 18. The allegation of demand of gratification and
acceptance made by a public servant has to be established
beyond a reasonable doubt. The decision of the Constitution
Bench does not dilute this elementary requirement of proof
beyond a reasonable doubt. The Constitution Bench was dealing
with the issue of the modes by which the demand can be
proved. The Constitution Bench has laid down that the proof
need not be only by direct oral or documentary evidence, but it
can be by way of other evidence including circumstantial
evidence. When reliance is placed on circumstantial evidence to
prove the demand for gratification, the prosecution must
establish each and every circumstance from which the
prosecution wants the Court to draw a conclusion of guilt. The
facts so established must be consistent with only one hypothesis
that there was a demand made for gratification by the accused.
Therefore, in this case, we will have to examine whether there is
any direct evidence of demand. If we come to a conclusion that
there is no direct evidence of demand, this Court will have to 53 consider whether there is any circumstantial evidence to prove
 the demand." Subsequent to NEERAJ DUTTA 's case the Apex Court in the case

of SOUNDARAJAN v. STATE5 has held as follows: ".... .... .... FINDING ON PROOF OF DEMAND 9. We have considered the submissions. It is well settled
 that for establishing the commission of an offence punishable
 under Section 7 of the PC Act, proof of demand of gratification
 and acceptance of the gratification is a sine qua non. Moreover,
 the Constitution Bench in the case of Neeraj Dutta3 has
 reiterated that the presumption under Section 20 of the PC
 Act can be invoked only on proof of facts in issue, namely, the
 demand of gratification by the accused and the acceptance
 thereof. 10. As stated earlier, complainant PW-2 has not
 supported the prosecution. He has not said anything in his
 examination-in-chief about the demand made by the appellant.
 The public prosecutor cross-examined PW-2. The witness stated
 that there was no demand of a bribe made by the appellant.
 According to him, he filed a complaint as the return of the sale
 deed was delayed. Though PW-2 accepted that he had filed the
 complaint, in the cross-examination, he was not confronted with
 the material portions of the complaint in which he had narrated
 how the alleged demand was made. The public prosecutor ought
 to have confronted the witness with his alleged prior statements
 in the complaint and proved that part of the complaint through
 the concerned police officer who had reduced the complaint into
 writing. However, that was not done. 11. Now, we turn to the evidence of the shadow witness
 (PW-3). In the examination-in-chief, he stated that the 5 2023 SCC OnLine SC 424 54 appellant asked the PW-2 whether he had brought the amount.
 PW-3 did not say that the appellant made a specific demand of
 gratification in his presence to PW-2. To attract Section 7 of
 the PC Act, the demand for gratification has to be proved by the
 prosecution beyond a reasonable doubt. The word used in Section 7 , as it existed before 26th July 2018, is 'gratification'.
 There has to be a demand for gratification. It is not a simple
 demand for money, but it has to be a demand for gratification.
 If the factum of demand of gratification and acceptance thereof
 is proved, then the presumption under Section 20 can be
 invoked, and the Court can presume that the demand must be
 as a motive or reward for doing any official act. This
 presumption can be rebutted by the accused. 12. There is no circumstantial evidence of demand for
 gratification in this case. In the circumstances, the offences
 punishable under Section 7 and Section 13(2) read with Section
 13(1)(d) have not been established. Unless both demand and
 acceptance are established, offence of obtaining pecuniary
 advantage by corrupt means covered by clauses (i) and (ii) of Section 13(1)(d) cannot be proved." The Apex Court in the case of NEERAJ DUTTA-II supra was

clarifying and interpreting the judgment in the case of NEERAJ

DUTTA-I, which was rendered by a Constitution Bench and further

holds that proof of demand and acceptance of gratification is sine

qua non for any allegation under Section 7 , be it pre-amendment or

post- amendment. This is reiterated in the case of SOUNDARAJAN supra. 17. On a coalesce of the judgments rendered by the Apex

Court, as quoted supra, the soul of Section 7 is demand and

acceptance. The unmistakable inference on the interpretation, in

the considered view of the Court would be, if there is demand but

no acceptance it would not make an offence under Section 7 . If

there is acceptance but no demand, it would then also make no

offence under Section 7 . An act alleged under Section 7 should

have the ingredients of demand and acceptance and it is for the

performance of a public duty or forbearance from performance. Therefore, demand and acceptance should be for the purpose of

performance of some duty. For such performance there should be

work pending at the hands of the public servant against whom Section 7 is alleged. 18. In the light of the aforesaid elucidation of law by the Apex

Court, both under the unamended and amended P.C. Act , neither

the demand nor acceptance is proved to the remotest sense in the

case of the petitioner. Search and seizure did not yield any result,

as there were no documents found in the place of residence of the

petitioner. No receipt of illegal gratification as a demand or 56 acceptance is even found to its remotest sense. No trap is laid. No

recovery happens from the hands of the petitioner at any point in

time. Therefore, with these pointed indicators, entertainment of

petition merely because the CBI has filed its charge sheet,

permitting trial against this petitioner would become an abuse of

the process of law and result in miscarriage of justice. 19. For the aforesaid reasons, the following: Consequently, I.A.No.1 of 2021 also stands disposed. Sd/- (M. NAGAPRASANNA)
 JUDGE

bkp
CT:MJ