A.K. SIKRI, J. This batch of three Writ Petitions was heard together and is being

 disposed of by this Common Judgment as similar issues and prayers

 are raised in all these petitions. 2) The instant writ petitions have been preferred under Article 32 of the Signature Not Verified Digitally signed by ASHWANI KUMAR Constitution of India, challenging certain provisions of the Maharashtra Date: 2019.01.17 16:46:53 IST Reason: Prohibition of Obscene Dance in Hotels, Restaurant and Bar Rooms and

 Protection of Dignity of Women (Working therein) Act, 2016 (hereinafter 2 referred to as the ‘Act’) and also the Rules framed there under being the

 Maharashtra Prohibition of Obscene Dance in Hotels, Restaurant and

 Bar Rooms and Protection of Dignity of Women (Working therein) Rules,

 2016 (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Rules’) which, as the Petitioners

 submit, violate the Fundamental Rights of the Petitioners guaranteed

 under Articles 14 , 15 , 19 (1)(a) , 19 (1)(g) and 21 of the Constitution of

 India. 3) The petitioner No. 1 in Writ Petition (Civil) No. 576 of 2016 is an

 Association of various Hotel Owners and Bar Owners and/or Conductors

 of the same, who carry on business of running Restaurants and Bars in

 Mumbai and is duly registered under the Trade Unions Act . Petitioner

 No. 2 is the secretary of petitioner No. 1 and is a citizen of India, who

 runs a restaurant and bar. The petitioner in Writ Petition (Civil) No. 24 of 2017, R.R. Patil

 Foundation is a registered Union under the provisions of the Bombay

 Public Trust Act and the President thereof has been authorised to file the

 writ petition. The petitioner in Writ Petition (Civil) No. 119 of 2017 is the Bhartiya

 Bargirls Union, registered under the Trade Union Act, 1926 and

 represented through its Hony. President. The petition is filed in a

 representative capacity on behalf of a large number of women dancers,

 singers and waitresses. 4) Respondent No.1 in all the three writ petitions is the State of

 Maharashtra. The other respondents in the three petitions comprise of

 various departments/authorities of the State of Maharashtra. 5) A brief historical description behind enacting this Act and the Rules is as

 follows: The impugned Act and the Rules: Section 2 of the Act provides definitions to certain terms and the relevant

 among these are reproduced below: 2. One stage should not be less than 10ft. x 12ft. in size in bar
room, with non-transparent partition between hotel, restaurant and
bar room area. If the applicant is holding permit room licence
then there shall be fixed partition between the permit room and
dance room. xx xx xx 11. The place shall be at least one kilometer away from the
educational and religious institutions. PART-B

 Conditions to be fulfilled after grant of Licence 2. The working women, the dancers and waiters/ waitresses must
be employed under a written contract on a monthly salary to be
deposited in their bank accounts (with all other benefits as
required by law, including provident fund) and a copy of such
contract must be deposited with the licensing authority. xx xx xx 6. Customer shall not be permitted to thrown or shower coins,
currency notes or any article or anything which can be monetized
on the stage in the direction of the dancer. Customers may,
however, make payment of a tip in appreciation of all the dancers
by adding a sum to the amount of the bill. Such tip shall be paid
by the licensee to the dancers of that evening and under no
circumstances such sum shall be deducted from the monthly
salary. xx xx xx 9. The bar room where dances are staged shall be open for
public only between 6.00 P.M. to 11.30 P.M.

 xx xx xx 12. No alcoholic beverage shall be served in the bar room where
dances are staged. xx xx xx 16. The Licensee shall ensure that the employees have no
criminal antecedents. 17. The Licensee shall not allow any modification or alternation in
 the premises without the permission of the licensing authority. xx xx xx 20. The Licensee shall ensure that all entrances of the bar room,
 other places of amusement or public entertainment and the area
 which falls under the definition of public place shall be covered by
 CCTV cameras and recording shall be preserved for 30 days for
 the inspection by the Competent Police Authority, if it is
 requisitioned by him.” 17) Before we advert to the arguments advanced by the counsel for

 the petitioners on the basis of which validity of the aforesaid provisions

 of the Act and the Rules is questioned, it would be necessary to discuss

 the judgment of this Court rendered in 2013 in the case of Indian Hotel

 and Restaurants Association (1). The reason for this course of action

 is that many arguments of the petitioners proceed on the basis that

 some of the provisions in the Acts and the Rules are akin to Sections

 33A and 33B which were inserted vide Bombay Police Amendment Act,

 2005 in Maharashtra Police Act, 1951 . Even otherwise, the reasoning

 contained in the said judgment on the basis of which the aforesaid

 provisions were struck down was heavily relied upon by the petitioners. 18) Indian Hotel and Restaurants Association (1)

 As already noted above, any person intending to start an eating

 house and restaurant is required to have certain licenses under the Bombay Police Act which is known as public entertainment licence.

 Likewise, any restaurant owner desirous to have music or dance or 14 either music or dance in the restaurant is further required to obtain

Premises and Performance Licence under the Amusement Rules. This

power to give licence is vested with the Commissioner of Police as per Section 33 of the Maharashtra Police Act, 1951. Sections 33A and 33B

were added by Amendment Act, 2005 . These provisions along with

Statement of Objects and Reasons are as under: 21. The Statement of Objects and Reasons clause appended to
 Bill No. 40 of 2005 as introduced in the Maharashtra Legislative
 Assembly on 14-6-2005 reads as under: 3. The Bill is intended to achieve the following objectives.

33-A.Prohibition of performance of dance in eating house,
permit room or beer bar and other consequential provisions.
—(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or the Rules
made by the Commissioner of Police or the District Magistrate
under sub-section (1) of Section 33 for the area under their
respective charges, on and from the date of commencement of
the Bombay Police (Amendment) Act, 2005— (a) holding of a performance of dance, of any kind or type, in any
eating house, permit room or beer bar is prohibited; (b) all performance licences, issued under the aforesaid Rules by
the Commissioner of Police or the District Magistrate or any other
officer, as the case may be, being the licensing authority, to hold a
dance performance, of any kind or type, in an eating house,
permit room or beer bar shall stand cancelled. (2) Notwithstanding anything contained in Section 131 , any
person who holds or causes or permits to be held a dance
performance of any kind or type, in an eating house, permit room
or beer bar in contravention of sub-section (1), shall, on
conviction, be punished with imprisonment for a term which may
extend to three years and with fine which may extend to rupees
two lakhs: 33-B. Non-applicability of the provisions of Section 33-A in
 certain cases.—Subject to the other provisions of this Act, or any
 other law for the time being in force, nothing in Section 33-A shall
 apply to the holding of a dance performance in a drama theatre,
 cinema theatre and auditorium; or sports club or gymkhana,
 where entry is restricted to its members only, or a three-starred or
 above hotel or in any other establishment or class of
 establishments, which, having regard to (a) the tourism policy of
 the Central or State Government for promoting the tourism
 activities in the State; or (b) cultural activities, the State
 Government may, by special or general order, specify in this
 behalf. Explanation.—For the purposes of this section, ‘sports club’
 or ‘gymkhana’ means an establishment registered as such under
 the provisions of the Bombay Public Trusts Act, 1950 , or the Societies Registration Act, 1860 or the Companies Act, 1956 , or
 any other law for the time being in force.” 19) It is the validity of these provisions which was the subject matter of

 the appeals before the Supreme Court as Bombay High Court had 17 declared these provisions as unconstitutional, being violative of Articles

 14 , 19(1)(a) and 19(1)(g) of the Constitution. It may be noted that in the

 writ petitions filed in the High Court, these provisions were challenged as

 violative of Articles 15(1) and 21 as well. However, challenge on these

 grounds was repelled by the High Court. The High Court had held that

 these provisions suffer from the vice of arbitrariness and, therefore,

 violative of Article 14 of the Constitution, as they provide for different

 standards of morality to institutions with similar activities and the

 activities in Section 33A establishments are less obscene but

 nonetheless the classification bears no nexus to the object of the

 Amendment. It was also held that there is a violation of Article 19(1)(a) as dance is a form of expression and the impugned enactment is

 unreasonable restriction which is not protective by Article 19(2) of the

 Constitution. Further, these provisions amount to an unreasonable

 restriction on the right to freedom of profession as the State Government

 permitted and granted licenses for running such establishments being

 res commercium and that it deprives the bar owners on their right to

 carry on their profession and bar dancers to carry on their profession. 20) While upholding the decision of the High Court founded on

 invidious discrimination and, as such, violative of Article 14 of the

 Constitution, this Court, inter alia, stated the following reasons: 18 The State Government presumed that the performance of an
 identical dance item in the establishments having facilities less
 than three stars would be derogative to the dignity of women and
 would be likely to deprave, corrupt or injure public morality or
 morals; but would not be so in the exempted establishments.
 These are misconceived notions of a bygone era which ought not
 to be resurrected. 122. Incongruously, the State does not find it to be indecent,
 immoral or derogatory to the dignity of women if they take up
 other positions in the same establishments such as receptionist,
 waitress or bartender. The women who serve liquor and beer to
 customers do not arouse lust in customers but women dancing
 would arouse lust. In our opinion, if a certain kind of dance is
 sensuous in nature and if it causes sexual arousal in men it
 cannot be said to be more in the prohibited establishments and
 less in the exempted establishments. Sexual arousal and lust in
 men and women and degrees thereof, cannot be said to be
 monopolised by the upper or the lower classes. Nor can it be
 presumed that sexual arousal would generate different character
 or behaviour, depending on the social strata of the audience.
 History is replete with examples of crimes of lust committed in the
 highest echelons of the society as well as in the lowest levels of
 society. The High Court has rightly observed, relying on the
 observations of this Court in Gaurav Jain v. Union of India [(1997)
 8 SCC 114 : 1998 SCC (Cri) 25] that: ( Indian Hotel and
 Restaurants Assn. Case [(2006) 3 Bom CR 705] , Bom Cr p. 744,
 para 48)
 “48. ‘27.… Prostitution in five-star hotels is a licence given to
 persons from higher echelons.’ ( Gaurav Jain case [(1997) 8
 SCC 114 : 1998 SCC (Cri) 25] , SCC p. 132, para 27)” 21) Likewise, arguments of the State questioning the opinion of the

 High Court as the provisions to be ultra vires Article 19(1)(g) were

 rejected by this Court with the following discussion: 128. The restaurants/dance bar owners also have to obtain
licences/permissions as listed below: 129. Before any of the licences are granted, the applicant has to
fulfill the following conditions: (viii) The conditions mentioned in the licence shall be observed
throughout the period for which the licence is granted and if there
is a breach of any one of the conditions, the licence is likely to be
cancelled after following the usual procedure. 130. The aforesaid list, enactments and regulations are further
supplemented with the regulations protecting the dignity of
women. The provisions of the Bombay Police Act, 1951 and more
particularly Section 33(1)(w) of the said Act empowers the
licensing authority to frame rules: 131. Rules 122 and 123 of the Amusement Rules, 1960 also
prescribe conditions for holding performances: Similar conditions and restrictions are also prescribed under
 the performance licence: 132. The Rules under the Bombay Police Act, 1951 have been
framed in the interest of public safety and social welfare and to
safeguard the dignity of women as well as prevent exploitation of
women. There is no material placed on record by the State to
show that it was not possible to deal with the situation within the
framework of the existing laws except for the unfounded 24 conclusions recorded in the Preamble as well as the Statement of
Objects and Reasons. [See State of Gujarat v. Mirzapur Moti
Kureshi Kassab Jamat [(2005) 8 SCC 534 : AIR 2006 SC 212]
wherein it is held that: (SCC p. 573, para 75) the standard of
judging reasonability of restriction or restriction amounting to
prohibition remains the same, excepting that a total prohibition
must also satisfy the test that a lesser alternative would be
inadequate.] The Regulations framed under Section 33(1)(w) of
the Bombay Police Act, more so Regulations 238 and 242 provide
that the licensing authority may suspend or cancel a licence for
any breach of the licence conditions. Regulation 241 empowers
the licensing authority or any authorised police officer, not below
the rank of Sub-Inspector, to direct the stoppage of any
performance forthwith if the performance is found to be
objectionable. Section 162 of the Bombay Police Act empowers a
competent authority/Police Commissioner/ District Magistrate to
suspend or revoke a licence for breach of its conditions. Thus,
sufficient power is vested with the licensing authority to safeguard
any perceived violation of the dignity of women through obscene
dances. 133. From the objects of the impugned legislation and
amendment itself, it is crystal clear that the legislation was
brought about on the admission of the police that it is unable to
effectively control the situation in spite of the existence of all the
necessary legislation, rules and regulations. One of the
submissions made on behalf of the appellants was to the effect
that it is possible to control the performances which are conducted
in the establishments falling within Section 33-B ; the reasons
advanced for the aforesaid only highlight the stereotype myths
that people in upper strata of society behave in orderly and
moralistic manner. There is no independent empirical material to
show that propensity of immorality or depravity would be any less
in these high-class establishments. On the other hand, it is the
specific submission of the appellants that the activities conducted
within the establishments covered under Section 33-A have the
effect of vitiating the atmosphere not only within the
establishments but also in the surrounding locality. According to
the learned counsel for the appellants, during dance in the bars
the dancers wore deliberately provocative dresses. The dance
becomes even more provocative and sensual when such
behaviour is mixed with alcohol. It has the tendency to lead to
undesirable results. Reliance was placed upon State of Bombay v.
R.M.D. Chamarbaugwala [ AIR 1957 SC 699], Khoday Distilleries
Ltd. v. State of Karnataka [( 1995) 1 SCC 574], State of Punjab v.
Devans Modern Breweries Ltd. [(2004) 11 SCC 26], New York
State Liquor Authority v. Bellanca [69 L Ed 2d 357 : 452 US 714
(1981)] and R. v. Quinn [(1962) 2 QB 245 : (1961) 3 WLR 611 : 25 134. We are undoubtedly bound by the principles enunciated by
this Court in the aforesaid cases, but these are not applicable to
the facts and circumstances of the present case. In Khoday
Distilleries Ltd. [(1995) 1 SCC 574] , it was held that there is no
fundamental right inter alia to do trafficking in women or in slaves
or to carry on business of exhibiting and publishing pornographic
or obscene films and literature. This case is distinguishable
because of the unfounded presumption that women are
being/were trafficked in the bars. State of Punjab v. Devans
Modern Breweries Ltd. [(2004) 11 SCC 26] dealt with liquor trade,
whereas the present case is clearly different. The reliance on New
York State Liquor Authority [69 L Ed 2d 357 : 452 US 714 (1981)]
is completely unfounded because in that case endeavour of the
State was directed towards prohibiting topless dancing in an
establishment licensed to serve liquor. Similarly, R. v. Quinn
[(1962) 2 QB 245 : (1961) 3 WLR 611 : (1961) 3 All ER 88 (CCA)]
dealt with indecent performances in a disorderly house. Hence,
this case will also not help the appellants. Therefore, we are not
impressed with any of these submissions. All the activities
mentioned above can be controlled under the existing regulations. 135. We do not agree with the submission of Mr Subramanium
that the impugned enactment is a form of additional regulation, as
it was felt that the existing system of licence and permits were
insufficient to deal with problem of ever-increasing dance bars.
We also do not agree with the submissions that whereas
exempted establishments are held to standards higher than those
prescribed; the eating houses, permit rooms and dance bars
operate beyond/below the control of the regulations. Another
justification given is that though it may be possible to regulate
these permit rooms and dance bars which are located within
Mumbai, it would not be possible to regulate such establishments
in the semi-urban and rural parts of the Maharashtra. If that is so,
it is a sad reflection on the efficiency of the licensing/regulatory
authorities in implementing the legislation. 136. The end result of the prohibition of any form of dancing in the
establishments covered under Section 33-A leads to the only
conclusion that these establishments have to shut down. This is
evident from the fact that since 2005, most if not all the dance bar
establishments have been literally closed down. This has led to
the unemployment of over 75,000 women workers. It has been
brought on the record that many of them have been compelled to
take up prostitution out of necessity for maintenance of their 26 families. In our opinion, the impugned legislation has proved to be
 totally counter-productive and cannot be sustained being ultra
 vires Article 19(1)(g) .”

Submissions of the petitioners: According to the petitioners, it was verbatim similar to Section 33A which

 was already held unconstitutional and it is, for this reason, in Writ

 Petition (Civil) No. 793 of 2014 wherein constitutionality of this provision

 was challenged, this Court passed orders dated October 15, 2015

 staying the operation of newly added Section 33A of the Bombay Police 27 Act. Thereafter, on November 26, 2015, this Court directed licences to

 be granted in two weeks. In order to frustrate the aforesaid directions of

 this Court, respondents came up with 26 new conditions for grant of

 licence. As the petitioners had objection to some of the conditions,

 another application was moved in Writ Petition (Civil) No. 9793 of 2014.

 After orders dated March 02, 2016 were passed by the Court modifying

 some of the said 26 conditions, on April 18, 2016, this Court granted one

 week time to the respondents to comply with its directions. Again, with

 intention to frustrate the effect of the judgment of this Court, the

 respondents passed the impugned legislation and also framed

 impugned rules thereunder. 23) Mr. Bhushan further pointed out that even when certain orders

 were passed by the Supreme Court for issuance of the licence and for

 processing other applications on the principle of parity, till date not a

 single licence has been issued to any of the petitioners/members of the

 association. All this amply shows that the only intention of the State is to

 put an absolute ban on dance bars, as the respondent State is ensuring

 that licences are rejected on one ground or the other. He also

 endeavoured to demonstrate this by reading the orders passed by the

 State rejecting each and every application that has been made for grant

 of licence even under the new Act and Rules. 24) Mr. Bhushan specifically referred to the following passage from the

 earlier judgment wherein plea of public interest or morality was repelled: The court should not approach the enactment with a view to
 pick holes or to search for defects of drafting, much less
 inexactitude of language employed. Indeed, any such
 defects of drafting should be ironed out as part of attempt to
 sustain the validity/constitutionality of the enactment. After
 all, an Act made by the legislature represents the will of the
 people and that cannot be lightly interfered with. The
 unconstitutionality must be plainly and clearly established
 before an enactment is declared as void.”

 xx xx xx 85. Mr Rohatgi submits that the impugned legislation has
achieved the opposite result. Instead of creating fresh job
opportunities for women it takes away whatever job opportunities
are already available to them. He emphasised that the ban also
has an adverse social impact. The loss of livelihood of bar
dancers has put them in a very precarious situation to earn the
livelihood. Mr Rohatgi submitted that the dancers merely imitate
the dance steps and movements of Hindi movie actresses. They
wear traditional clothes such as ghagra cholis, sarees and salwar
kameez. On the other hand, the actresses in movies wear 30 revealing clothes: shorts, swimming costumes and revealing
 dresses. Reverting to the reliance placed by the appellants on the
 PRAYAS Report and Shubhada Chaukar Report, Mr Rohatgi
 submitted that both the reports are of no value, especially in the
 case of PRAYAS Report which is based on interviews conducted
 with only few girls. The SNDT Report actually indicates that there
 is no organised racket that brings women to the dance bars. The
 girls' interview, in fact, indicated that they came to the dance bars
 through family, community, neighbours and street knowledge.
 Therefore, according to Mr Rohatgi, the allegations with regard to
 trafficking to the dance bars by middlemen are without any basis.
 Most of the girls who performed dance are generally illiterate and
 do not have any formal education. They also do not have any
 training or skills in dancing. This clearly rendered them virtually
 unemployable in any other job. He, therefore, submits that the
 SNDT Report is contradictory to the PRAYAS Report. Thus, the
 State had no reliable data on the basis of which the impugned
 legislation was enacted.” 25) Adverting specifically to those provisions of the Act and the Rules

 which have been challenged as unconstitutional, Mr. Bhushan submitted

 that insofar as Section 2(8)(i) is concerned, the definition of ‘obscene

 dance’ contained therein is totally vague. He argued that this definition of

 ‘obscene dance’ includes ‘a dance which is designed only to arouse the

 prurient interest of the audience’, which was totally loose expression

 incapable of any precise meaning. 26) It was submitted that such a definition was susceptible to various

 perceptions depending upon the subjective opinion of the concerned

 persons and, therefore, different persons may reach different

 conclusions after seeing the same dance performance. According to Mr.

 Bhushan, when obscene dance is made as an offence under the Act, a

 vague definition of this term was anathema to the principles of 31 criminology and was opposed to the rule of law. 27) Another provision, validity whereof is questioned on the premise

 that the same is arbitrary and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution, is Section 6(4) of the Act. This provision bars the grant of licence under

 the Act in respect of a place where licence for discotheque or orchestra

 is granted. Conversely, it also prohibits grant of licence for discotheque

 or orchestra where licence under this Act is granted. Simply put, the

 purport behind this provision is to see that in respect of a particular place

 either licence is granted for dance bars or for discotheque and orchestra

 and there would not be a licence for a place, both for dance bars and

 discotheque or orchestra, at the same time. It was submitted that there

 was no rational behind such a provision based on intelligible differentia.

 Reference was made to the judgment in M.P. AIT Permit Owners Assn.

 and Another v. State of M.P.2 , which was relied upon in the subsequent

 judgment in Engineering Kamgar Union v. Electro Steels Castings

 Ltd. and Another3 wherein it was held as under: Union of India, (1985) 1 SCC 641 : 1985 SCC (Tax) 121]
 stated that it was settled law that subordinate legislation can
 be challenged on any of the grounds available for challenge
 against plenary legislation. This being the case, there is no
 rational distinction between the two types of legislation when
 it comes to this ground of challenge under Article 14. The
 test of manifest arbitrariness, therefore, as laid down in the
 aforesaid judgments would apply to invalidate legislation as
 well as subordinate legislation under Article 14. Manifest
 arbitrariness, therefore, must be something done by the
 legislature capriciously, irrationally and/or without adequate
 determining principle. Also, when something is done which is
 excessive and disproportionate, such legislation would be
 manifestly arbitrary. We are, therefore, of the view that
 arbitrariness in the sense of manifest arbitrariness as
 pointed out by us above would apply to negate legislation as
 well under Article 14.”

This view of the law by two learned Judges of this Court was
concurred with by Kurian, J. in para 5 of his judgment. 24. Article 21 is the Ark of the Covenant so far as the
Fundamental Rights Chapter of the Constitution is concerned. It
deals with nothing less sacrosanct than the rights of life and
personal liberty of the citizens of India and other persons. It is the
only article in the Fundamental Rights Chapter (along with Article 20) that cannot be suspended even in an emergency [see Article
359(1) of the Constitution]. At present, Article 21 is the repository
of a vast number of substantive and procedural rights post
Maneka Gandhi v. Union of India [Maneka Gandhi v. Union of
India, (1978) 1 SCC 248]. Thus, in Rajesh Kumar [Rajesh Kumar
v. State , (2011) 13 SCC 706 : (2012) 2 SCC (Cri) 836] at pp.
724-26, this Court held: (SCC paras 56-63) 35 “56. Article 21 as enacted in our Constitution reads as under: An enacted apparition is a constitutional illusion. Processual
justice is writ patently on Article 21. It is too grave to be
circumvented by a black letter ritual processed through the
legislature.’ 59. Immediately after the decision in Maneka Gandhi
[Maneka Gandhi v. Union of India , (1978) 1 SCC 248]
another Constitution Bench of this Court rendered decision
in Sunil Batra v. State (UT of Delhi) [Sunil Batra v. State (UT
of Delhi), (1978) 4 SCC 494 : 1979 SCC (Cri) 155]
specifically acknowledged that even though a clause like the
Eighth Amendment of the United States Constitution and
concept of “due process” of the American Constitution is not
enacted in our Constitution text, but after the decision of this
Court in Rustom Cavasjee Cooper [Rustom Cavasjee
Cooper v. Union of India , ( 1970) 1 SCC 248] and Maneka
Gandhi [Maneka Gandhi v. Union of India , (1978) 1 SCC
248] the consequences are the same. The Constitution
Bench of this Court in Sunil Batra [Sunil Batra v. State (UT of
Delhi ), (1978) 4 SCC 494 : 1979 SCC (Cri) 155] speaking
through Krishna Iyer, J. held: (Sunil Batra case [ Sunil Batra
v. State (UT of Delhi ), (1978) 4 SCC 494 : 1979 SCC (Cri)
155] , SCC p. 518, para 52)

‘52. True, our Constitution has no “due process” clause or
the Eighth Amendment; but, in this branch of law, after Cooper [Rustom Cavasjee Cooper v. Union of India , ( 1970)
1 SCC 248] and Maneka Gandhi [Maneka Gandhi v. Union
of India , (1978) 1 SCC 248] , the consequence is the same.’ 60. The Eighth Amendment (1791) to the Constitution of the
United States virtually emanated from the English Bill of
Rights (1689). The text of the Eighth Amendment reads,
“excessive bail shall not be required, nor excessive fines
imposed, nor cruel and unusual punishments inflicted”. The
English Bill of Rights drafted a century ago postulates, “That
excessive bail ought not to be required, nor excessive fines
imposed, nor cruel and unusual punishments inflicted”. 61. Our Constitution does not have a similar provision but
after the decision of this Court in Maneka Gandhi case
[ Maneka Gandhi v. Union of India , (1978) 1 SCC 248]
jurisprudentially the position is virtually the same and the
fundamental respect for human dignity underlying the Eighth
Amendment has been read into our jurisprudence. 62. Until the decision was rendered in Maneka Gandhi
[Maneka Gandhi v. Union of India , (1978) 1 SCC 248] , 37 Article 21 was viewed by this Court as rarely embodying the
 Diceyian concept of the rule of law that no one can be
 deprived of his personal liberty by an executive action
 unsupported by law. If there was a law which provided some
 sort of a procedure it was enough to deprive a person of his
 life or personal liberty. In this connection, if we refer to the
 example given by S.R. Das, J. in his judgment in A.K.
 Gopalan [A.K. Gopalan v. State of Madras , AIR 1950 SC 27 : But after the decision in Maneka Gandhi [Maneka Gandhi v.
 Union of India , (1978) 1 SCC 248] which marks a watershed
 in the development of constitutional law in our country, this
 Court, for the first time, took the view that Article 21 affords
 protection not only against the executive action but also
 against the legislation which deprives a person of his life and
 personal liberty unless the law for deprivation is reasonable,
 just and fair. And it was held that the concept of
 reasonableness runs like a golden thread through the entire
 fabric of the Constitution and it is not enough for the law to
 provide some semblance of a procedure. The procedure for
 depriving a person of his life and personal liberty must be
 eminently just, reasonable and fair and if challenged before
 the court it is for the court to determine whether such
 procedure is reasonable, just and fair and if the court finds
 that it is not so, the court will strike down the same. 63. Therefore, “law” as interpreted under Article 21 by this
 Court is more than mere “lex”. It implies a due process, both
 procedurally and substantively.” 25. Given the parameters of judicial review of legislation laid down
 in these judgments, we have to see whether Section 45 can pass
 constitutional muster.”

 His further submission relating to this provision was that it was

 even violative of Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution inasmuch as for

 dancers, singers, waitresses, etc., tips are th major part of their earnings

 which was sought to be taken away by this provision. 30) Attacking the validity of Rule 3 of the Rules, he submitted that 38 Condition No.2 contained in Part A of the Schedule attached to these

 Rules is contrary to the judgment in Indian Hotel and Restaurants

 Association (1). He also submitted that distance of 1 k.m. of such

 dance bars from the educational and religious institutions, as stipulated

 in Condition No.11 of Part A of the Schedule, was illogical and

 impractical. According to him, it was, in fact, an impossible condition to

 be fulfilled in a congested city like Mumbai where educational and

 religious institutions existed within 1 k.m. from each and every building.

 He pointed out that for the Bars under liquor Rules, distance prescribed

 is 75 mts., which was reasonable and valid provision and could be

 incorporated here as well. 31) Insofar as Condition No.2 contained in Part B of the Schedule is

 concerned, it is challenged on the ground that under the guise of this

 condition the respondent wanted that employment of the bar dancers in

 the said bars becomes imperative. This was violative of Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution, both for the owners as well as for such women

 dancers and waitresses, as it was taking away the freedom of these

 performers to work on contract basis if they so wanted. 32) As far as Condition No.6 relating to giving of tips is concerned

 (which goes along with Condition No. 11 of Part A), argument is that the

 State cannot impose a condition that such an amount has to be 39 necessarily added in the bill. 33) Timings of the dance bars from 6:00 p.m. to 11:30 p.m. stipulated

 in Condition No. 9 of Part B is challenged on the ground that it does not

 serve any purpose. Moreover, discotheque or orchestra and liquor bars

 are allowed to be open till 01:30 a.m. 34) Similarly, argued the petitioners, Condition No.12 which prohibits

 serving alcoholic beverages in the dance bars is irrational. 35) Validity of Condition No.16 read with Rule 3(iii) is challenged on

 the ground that such a condition is again vague in nature inasmuch as

 the expression ‘good character’ and ‘criminal record in the past’ are not

 capable of any precise definition. He submitted that till the time there is

 no conviction, there cannot be any bar on the employment of a person.

 Further, even if there is a conviction, the bar should be attached only in

 those cases where conviction is for a serious offence. 36) Condition No.17 of Part B to the Schedule which prohibits any

 modification or alteration in the premises without the permission of the

 licensing authority is questioned as arbitrary. Attention of the Court was

 drawn to the order dated March 02, 2016 passed in Writ Petition (Civil)

 No. 793 of 2014, which reads as under: 40) As with other professional artistes, and until the year 2004, the

 women performers have had complete freedom to choose which bars or

 restaurants to perform; day, time or duration of their performance; and

 had the bargaining capacity to negotiate remuneration with bar owners.

 In other words, the women performers were never the ‘employees’ of

 such establishments – either by virtue of a contract or under a statutory

 provision. As a matter of fact, many women performers do not expect

 any or adequate compensation from bar owners as it has been

 customary for performers to accept tips or rewards from patrons offered

 as a token of appreciation for their performance. This decades’ old

 practice is akin to customary practices of Mujras, Lavani (traditional

 Marathi song and dance) or Tamasha (traditional Marathi theatre) who

 earn their living in the form of Bakshisi offered by audiences. The said

 practice is still widely prevalent across the country. 41) Adverting to the secondary effects and colonial-era stigma, Mr.

 Nayyar pointed out that the dramatic performances in dance bars often

 imitate Bollywood performances or the ‘mainstream’ culture – both in

 form and character. However, the State Government has viewed dance

8 See Dalwai, Sameena, ‘Performing caste: the ban on bar dancing in Mumbai’ Keele
University (2012) 46 bars an innately vulgar, undesirable, and as threatening the moral fabric

 of the society. The State’s perception is premised on popular beliefs and

 public sentiment associated with art and entertainment. 42) The reason for the oppressive and moralistic attitude against

 dance bars takes root from a patriarchal view that women “engaging in

 any kind of work or profession outside the home or domestic sphere’

 carried ‘low societal status’. Anna Morcom, a noted scholar, argues that

 the societal views on ‘bar girls’ bear close resemblance to oppressive

 treatment meted out to traditional dancing communities (Devadasis,

 courtesans, nautch, etc.,) during British-era9. 43) Insofar as challenge to the Act and Rules is concerned, this

 petition challenges some of the provisions which are also the subject

 matter of challenge in Writ Petition (Civil) No. 576 of 2016, on which we

 have noted the arguments of Mr. Jayant Bhushan, learned senior

 counsel. Adopting those arguments, Mr. Nayyar also made some

 additional submissions which are as under: 9 Anna Morcom, Courtesans, Bar Girls and Dancing Boys: Illicit Worlds of Indian
Dance (Hachette India, 2014) 47 found no basis or justification for imposition of prohibition. 44) He submitted that the present Act and rules were nothing but old

 wine in a new bottle with same kind of provisions which have already

 been struck down in Indian Hotel and Restaurants Association (1). In

 addition, the argument of Mr. Nayyar was that the moral anxiety and the

 reasons advanced by the State Government for introducing the

 legislation are entirely irrational and without demonstrable proof or

 evidence. Illustratively: 10 (1973) ILR 1299 (Bom)
11 (1981) 19 DLT 210
12 (2004) 2 Mah LJ 72 49 have been considered and rejected by this Court in Indian Hotel and

Restaurants Association (1) for the lack of cogent evidence.

Therefore, the belief of the State Government that the working women in

dance bars are involved in immoral activities such as prostitution, or that

minors are being employed, are entirely baseless and irrational. (iv) Conditions of work: The concerns of the State Government that

women dancers are subjected to unsafe and exploitative working

conditions is entirely false. Various studies indicate that many bar girls

felt ‘greater security in the bars due to the support network among the

dancers as well as the protection provided by the owners’. It was further

noted that the bar owners, on the demands made by bar girls, provides

taxis and auto rickshaws for women travelling late at night. Although bar

girls worked under the constant gaze of bar owners, they are neither

contractually employed nor subservient to them. Few other performers

have also expressed complete freedom to shift from one dance bar to

another at their will. Therefore, the claims that the women performers

are working under unsafe or exploitative conditions are hugely

exaggerated. Having said that, there is certainly a grave necessity to

improve working conditions of bar girls. However, the same can be

achieved by strengthening the rights of thees women and organisations

such as the petitioner-Union without the intervention from state

apparatus. (v) Social Vulnerabilities: The prolonged ban on dance bars has had

adverse effect on bar girls and women entertainers. After the ban, the

RCWS & FAOW study pointed out that income of almost all women was

reduced to less than 50% of their original earnings, and at least 1/4th of

the women found their income slashed by 90% of their original earnings.

At least 57.5% of the women reported having used all their savings in

the form of jewellery, cash or property and at least 26% of these women

have been forced to take additional loans, ranging between the amounts

of couple of thousands to lakhs. The study further pointed that the

access to health care and education of dancers and their families has

reduced drastically. Moreover, the lack of social security has resulted in

sexual harassment and also driven women to take up exploitative sex

work. In this backdrop, and contrary to the stated objects, the increased

interference by the State Government could further jeopardise the

livelihood of women. This Court in Indian Hotel and Restaurants

Association (1) also expressed anguish as ban on dance bars ‘has

proved to be totally counter-productive’ as many women performers

were ‘compelled to take up prostitution out of necessity for maintenance

of their families’. (vi) Res Extra Commercium: The State Government contended that the

dancing – when mixed with alcohol – has the tendency to result in

unwelcomed or undesirable outcome. However, this Court in Indian 51 Hotel and Restaurants Association (1) dealt with similar argument and

 observed that ‘we are not impressed with any of these submissions’ as

 the submission was based on ‘unfounded presumption that women are

 being/were trafficked in the bars’. According to him, the impugned Act has been enacted as a

 retaliatory measure to disenfranchise women from performing at dance

 bars at any cost. It is contended that the legislative declaration of facts

 and beliefs, as noted above, are patently false and entirely irrational and

 devoid of any material. 45) He further submitted that onus was on the State to justify fairness

 and reasonableness which is the principle of law laid down in the case of Ram Krishna Dalmia v. Justice S.R. Tendolkar & Ors. 13, State of

 Maharashtra & Anr. v. Basantibai Mohanlal Khetan & Ors. 14 and M/s Laxmi Khandsari & Ors. v. State of U.P. & Ors.15 . According to him, the State has not discharged this onus. 46) Mr. Nayyar also made detailed submissions on the standards of

 ‘obscenity’ which prevail in this country as per the parameters laid down

 in various judgments and the development of law on this subject. In this

 hue, he also argued that public policy or general public interest cannot

 be valid grounds to restrict freedom of speech under Article 19(1)(a) of

13 (1959) SCR 279
14 (1986) 2 SCC 516
15 (1981) 2 SCC 600 52 the Constitution. Neither majoritarian or societal notions formed the

 basis to restrict such a fundamental right. According to him, on the

 contrary, constitutional values of personal autonomy and individual

 choices which have been held to be the facets of right to privacy, giving

 it the status of fundamental rights, had to be respected. His plea was

 that the impugned legislation and rules violate such rights as well. 47) Mr. Nayyar also, like Mr. Jayant Bhushan, touched upon specific

 provisions of the Act and the Rules. On Section 2(8) of the Act, his

 submission was that it is a provision which was utterly vague and

 creates a chilling effect; puts restrictions on dance which are excessive

 and disproportionate; and suffers from rigidity, overbreadth and manifest

 arbitrariness. Insofar as Section 8(4) of the Act, which prohibits offering

 tips by the customers to the performers is concerned, submission of Mr.

 Nayyar is that it is manifestly arbitrary and unreasonable inasmuch as

 this provision infuses criminalisation into and otherwise benign or

 harmless act and was contrary to well-recognised customary practice

 thereby suffering from manifest arbitrariness. 48) The learned counsel also laid attack on the legality of some of the

 licence conditions. His submission in this behalf was that the Grievance

 Redressal Committee constituted under Section 12 of the impugned Act

 is highly inadequate and disproportionate. The composition of the 53 Committee, tasked with the duty to ensure proper conditions of service

 of women, does not contain any participation or representation of bar

 dancers in any manner. The composition of the Committee, as provided

 by Rule 10, is restricted to Group ‘A’ officers. As it is the workplace of

 these women, it is imperative that they must be represented when an

 issue regarding their working condition is being decided. 49) Mr. Nayyar termed condition B(2) as disproportionate, excessive

 and ultra vires the intent and object of the impugned Act. The provisions

 adversely affect women dancers by (i) restricting their freedom to move

 from one bar to another at their will, if the work conditions or the returns

 are not suitable; (ii) prohibit them from monetizing dances other than by

 way of receiving salary or shared tips. More importantly, the State

 Government has failed to show any compelling public interest to curtail

 the choices of women performers. 50) Conditions B(7) and B(8) are questioned on the premise that

 women dancers are indirectly prohibited from receiving tips, rewards or

 remuneration offered by their patrons, is unreasonable, excessive,

 manifestly arbitrary and violates Articles 14 and 19 of the Constitution.

 The suggestion from the State Government that tips could be added to

 the bill or handed over to waiters is irrational. 51) Condition B(9) wherein the dance performances are restricted to 54 6:00 pm to 11:30 pm is challenged as unreasonable and manifestly

 arbitrary. It is irrational and manifestly arbitrary to prohibit dances after

 11:30 pm, when the establishments can be open until 01:30 am (next

 day) or 12:30 am (next day), as the case may be 16. 52) According to him, condition B(12) wherein the bar owners are

 prohibited from serving of any alcoholic beverage at areas where

 dances are staged is disproportionate and manifestly arbitrary. The State

 Government has failed to provide any cogent material or demonstrate

 any reasonable basis which warrants interference of this nature. As

 such, the restriction is excessive and disproportionate consider other

 licence conditions (distance, railing, green room, age restrictions, etc.,)

 to prevent any untoward incident. 53) Validity of Section B(20) wherein the mandate to install CCTV

 cameras to maintain complete surveillance and recording of activities in

 such places is questioned as excessive, causes unwarranted invasion of

 privacy and violative of Articles 19(1)(a) and 21. In support, he referred

 to para 247(3) of K.S. Puttaswamy and Another wherein this Court

 examined the concept of ‘unpopular privacy’ - of which two facets are

 particular relevant – viz. “(c) decisional privacy which protects the right

 of citizens to make intimate choices about their rights from intrusion by

16 See Notification (bearing MSA. 07/2016/C.R. 218/Lab-10) issued by the State
Government also placed on record before this Court in Writ Petition (Civil) No. 576 of 2016. 55 the State; (d) proprietary privacy which relates to the protection of one’s

 reputation.” Given the societal stigma associated with dance bars, the

 monitoring, recording, storage and retention of dance performances

 causes unwarranted invasion of privacy and would even subject women

 performers to threat and blackmail. If the concerns are security, it can

 be adequately met having at the entrance. Hence, the complete

 surveillance of activities inside the premises is excessive and

 disproportionate. 54) Condition B(23) wherein the dance performances that maybe

 “expressive of any kind of obscenity, in any manner, even remotely” are

 prohibited is labelled by Mr. Nayyar as highly vague, excessive and

 creates a chilling effect on dancers. 55) Mr. Nayyar also supported his aforesaid arguments by citing

 various judgments which shall be taken note of and discussed at a later

 stage. 56) Rebuttal to the aforesaid arguments was given by Mr. Naphade,

 learned senior advocate, who appeared for the State of Maharashtra

 and supported by Ms. Pinky Anand, learned ASG who represented

 Union of India. 57) Mr. Naphade opened his argument with the submission that 56 arbitrariness or unreasonableness are value judgments and any

 legislation on the aforesaid parameters is to be judged keeping in mind

 the ‘context’ in which such a legislation is passed. Adverting to the

 context of the impugned Act, he referred to the preamble of the Act

 which stipulates as under: 17 (1965) 1 SCR 65 59 suppression but it was legalised and he considered Jane Eyre to
be pornographic but very few people will agree with him. 9. The former he thought so because it dealt with the excretory
functions and the latter because it dealt with sex repression. (See
Sex, Literaturet Censorship pp. 26, 201). Condemnation of
obscenity depends as much upon the mores of the people as
upon the individual. It is always a question of degree or as the
lawyers are accustomed to say, of where the line is to be drawn. It
is, however, clear that obscenity by itself has extremely poor value
in the propagation of ideas, opinions and informations of public
interest or profit. When there is propagation of ideas, opinions and
photographs collected in book form without the medical text would
may become different because then the interest of society may tilt
the scales in favour of free speech and expression. It is thus that
books on medical science with intimate illustrations and
photographs, though in a sense immodest, are not considered to
be obscene but the same illustrations and photographs collected
in book form without the medical text would certainly be
considered to be obscene. Section 292 of the Indian Penal Code
deals with obscenity in this sense and cannot thus be said to be
invalid in view of the second clause of Article 19. The next
question is when can an object be said to be obscene? xx xx xx 28. This is where the law comes in. The law seeks to protect not
those who can protect themselves but those whose prurient minds
take delight and secret sexual pleasure from erotic writings. No
doubt this is treating with sex by an artist and hence there is some
poetry even in the ugliness of sex. But as Judge Hand said
obscenity is a function of many variables. If by a series of
descriptions of sexual encounters described in language which
cannot be more candid, some social good might result to us there
would be room for considering the book. But there is no other
attraction in the book. As, J.B. Priestley said, “Very foolishly he
tried to philosophize upon instead of merely describing these
orgiastic impulses: he is the poet of a world in rut, and lately he
has become its prophet, with unfortunate results in his fiction.
[The English Novel, p. 142 (Nelson)]. The expurgated copy is
available but the people who would buy the un-expurgated copy
do not care for it. Perhaps the reason is as was summed up by
Middleton Murray: The Government of Haryana while considering the question of
rehabilitation of ex-convicts took a policy decision on 2-2-1973
(Annexure E in the Paper-book), accepting the recommendations
of the Government of India, that ex-convicts who were convicted
for offences involving moral turpitude should not however be
taken in government service. A list of offences which were
considered involving moral turpitude was prepared for information
and guidance in that connection. Significantly Section 294 IPC is
not found enlisted in the list of offences constituting moral
turpitude. Later, on further consideration, the Government of
Haryana on 17/26-3-1975 explained the policy decision of
2-2-1973 and decided to modify the earlier decision by
streamlining determination of moral turpitude as follows: Decision in each case will, however, depend on the
 circumstances of the case and the competent authority has
 to exercise its discretion while taking a decision in
 accordance with the above-mentioned principles. A list of
 offences which involve moral turpitude is enclosed for your
 information and guidance. This list, however, cannot be said
 to be exhaustive and there might be offences which are not
 included in it but which in certain situations and
 circumstances may involve moral turpitude.” Section 294 IPC still remains out of the list. Thus the conviction of
the appellant under Section 294 IPC on its own would not involve
moral turpitude depriving him of the opportunity to serve the State
unless the facts and circumstances, which led to the conviction,
met the requirements of the policy decision above-quoted.” 62 62) Mr. Naphade also banked upon the following discussion in Director General, Directorate General of Doordarshan & Ors. v.

 Anand Patwardhan & Anr.19 : The point to worry about is the power given to the Judge to decide
 what he/she thinks is obscene. This essentially deposits on the
 Supreme Court of India, the responsibility to define obscenity and
 classify matters coming on media as obscene or otherwise. This
 Court has time and again adopted the test of obscenity laid down
 by Cockburn, C.J. The test of obscenity is, whether the tendency
 of the matter charged as obscenity is to deprave and corrupt
 those whose minds are open to such immoral influences, and in
 whose hands a publication in media of this sort may fall. xx xx xx 37. In yet another case of Ramesh v. Union of India [(1988) 1
 SCC 668 : 1988 SCC (Cri) 266] this Court has observed that: Section 8(1) makes the Act of using the place in contravention of Section

 3 as punishable offence. In this hue, sub-section (2) of Section 8 provides that such place would not be allowed for obscene dance or to

 exploit any working woman for any immoral purpose at such a place,

 making such Act also an offence punishable under the Act. In that 66 sense, argued Mr. Naphade, Section 8(2) is a separate offence

 prescribed in a separate law that is under the Maharashtra Act which is

 distinct from Section 292 IPC. 66) In respect of Section 8(4) of the Act which prescribes giving of tips

 to dancers, Mr. Naphade defended the same with the submission that it

 is a matter of cultural ethos of the society. Herein, when the purpose is

 to protect the dignity of women, such a prohibition would be justified. In

 this vein, his further argument in support of such a provision was that

 showering money is a method of inducement which has to be checked.

 In any case, such is the the perception of the State prompting the

 legislature to make a provision of this kind, which cannot be labelled as

 fanciful. Mr. Naphade also referred to Section 354A of IPC which has

 widened the scope of ‘sexual harassment’ and made it an offence. He

 submitted that it can be treated as moral code of the society. Therefore, Section 8(4) has to be judged through such a lens. In the alternative, he

 argued that principle of severability can always be applied and the

 provision should be saved by excising offending portions therefrom. 67) Rule 2(b) of the Rules which defines ‘criminal record’ was sought

 to be justified on the ground that this provision is made to instill purity in

 public life. It takes its colour from ‘moral turpitude’ as mentioned in the

 definition itself. According to the learned senior counsel, the question 67 was as to whether such a record has to be based on conviction or even

 when there is FIR/complaint against a particular person, cognizance

 whereof is taken by the Court. His suggestion, in this behalf, was that

 this provision was capable of reading down and the Court was free to do

 so. 68) Argument of the petitioners predicated on Article 19(1)(a) of the

 Constitution, namely, fundamental rights of the dance bars or that of

 dancers was sought to be placated with the submission that balancing

 between that right on the one hand and prevention of obscenity on the

 other hand was necessitated. In this behalf, he referred to clause (2) of Article 19 as per which reasonable restriction can be imposed inter alia

 in the interest of ‘public order, decency or morality’. Therefore, morality

 aspects had to be taken into consideration while adjudging the validity of

 these provisions, argued the learned senior counsel. On the same lines,

 Mr. Naphade also tried to meet the argument based on Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution by taking shelter under clause (6) of Article 19 which

 permits the State to make law imposing reasonable restrictions in the

 interest of general public. 69) With respect to Schedule under Rule 3, Mr. Naphade’s defence of

 Condition No. 2 thereof was that it ensures safety. Likewise, Condition

 No. 11 of Part A is a matter of policy and it is the prerogative of the law 68 maker to fix the distance. Regarding Condition No. 2 of Part B,

submission of the learned senior counsel was that it is based on

economic reality that there is an exploitation of such working clause and,

therefore, the rule maker rightly laid down the condition that the working

women must be employed under a written contract on a monthly salary

which needs to be deposited in their bank accounts. Similarly, other

clauses were also in public interest and to achieve the purpose behind

the Act qua clause (20) of Part B, specific submission was that right to

privacy comes to an end when there is a possibility of commission of

trying and this clause aimed at preventing such a crime. Summing up

his arguments, Mr. Naphade took the matter to another level by arguing

that international trend is to frame the law based on morality. Such a

noble purpose which this Act seeks to achieve cannot be countenanced.

He paraphrased it with the following legal proposition: Another submission of the learned ASG was that the Act prohibits

 obscenity, which is even otherwise illegal under the IPC , therefore,

 principle of res extra commercium would apply. She referred to the

 following judgments to buttress her submission: We find it difficult to accept the contention that those activities
 which encourage a spirit of recklesss propensity for making easy
 gain by lot or chance, which lead to the loss of the hard earned
 money of the undiscerning and improvident common man and
 thereby lower his standard of living and drive him into a chronic
 state of indebtedness and eventually disrupt the peace and
 happiness of his humble home could possibly have been intended
 by our Constitution makers to be raised to the status of trade,

21 1957 SCR 874 70 commerce or intercourse and to be made the subject-matter of a
 fundamental right guaranteed by Article 19(1)(g). We find it difficult
 to persuade ourselves that gambling was ever intended to form
 any part of this ancient country's trade, commerce or intercourse
 to be declared as free under Article 301. It is not our purpose nor
 is it necessary for us in deciding this case to attempt an
 exhaustive definition of the word “trade”, “business”, or
 “intercourse”. We are, however, clearly of opinion that whatever
 else may or may not be regarded as falling within the meaning of
 these words, gambling cannot certainly be taken as one of them.
 We are convinced and satisfied that the real purpose of Articles
 19(1)(g) and 301 could not possibly have been to guarantee or
 declare the freedom of gambling. Gambling activities from their
 very nature and in essence are extra-commercium although the
 external forms, formalities and instruments of trade may be
 employed and they are not protected either by Article 19(1)(g) or Article 301 of our Constitution.” (ii) State of Tamil Nadu represented by its Secretary, Home,

 Prohibition and Excise Department & Ors. v. K. Balu & Anr.22 "16. We are conscious of the fact that the policy of the Union
 Government to discontinue liquor vends on National highways
 may not eliminate drunken driving completely. A driver of a motor
 vehicle can acquire liquor even before the commencement of a
 journey or, during a journey at a place other than a national or
 State highway. The law on preventing drunken driving also
 requires proper enforcement. Having said this, the Court must
 accept the policy of the Union Government for more than one
 reason. First and foremost, it is trite law that in matters of policy, in
 this case a policy on safety, the Court will defer to and accept a
 considered view formed by an expert body. Second, as we have
 seen, this view of the Union Government is based on statistics
 and data which make out a consistent pattern year after year.
 Third, the existence of liquor vends on highways presents a
 potent source for easy availability of alcohol. The existence of
 liquor vends, advertisements and signboards drawing attention to
 the availability of liquor coupled with the arduous drives
 particularly in heavy vehicles makes it abundantly necessary to
 enforce the policy of the Union Government to safeguard human
 life. In doing so, the Court does not fashion its own policy but
 enforces the right to life under Article 21 of the Constitution based
 on the considered view of expert bodies.”

22 (2017) 2 SCC 281 71 Consideration by the Court: Further, such performance of dances were giving rise to exploitation of

 women and were derogatory to the dignity of women. They were also

 likely to deprave, corrupt or injure the public morality or morals.

 Because of these reasons, the Government of Maharashtra considered

 it expedient to prohibit altogether the holding of such dance

 performances in eating houses or permit rooms or bear bars. To

 achieve this purpose, Section 33A prohibits holding of the performance

 of dance, of any kind or type, in any eating house, permit room or bear

 bar. To make this prohibition effective, all such licenses given earlier

 were cancelled by the said statutory provision. Holding of such 72 performances was also made a punishable offence. At the same time, Section 33B provided exception to Section 33A inasmuch as Section

 33A was made inapplicable in certain cases. As per Section 33B ,

 provisions of Section 33A was not to apply to the holding of the dance

 performance in a drama theatre, cinema theatre and auditorium; or

 sports club or gymkhana, where entry is restricted to its members only,

 or a three-starred or above hotel or in any other establishment or class

 of establishments, which, having regard to (a) the tourism policy of the

 Central or State Government for promoting the tourism activities in the

 State; or (b) cultural activities, the State Government may, by special or

 general order, specify in this behalf. 72) Two features of these provisions may be noted: Discussion in this behalf is contained, more specifically, in paras 118 to

122 of the judgment which have already been reproduced above. That

reason may not apply to the impugned Act and Rules herein inasmuch

as no such distinction is made now. At the same time, some of the

discussion from this judgment would be relevant. The Court also held

that Section 33A offended Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution inasmuch

as dance is a form of expression and the said provision amounted to

unreasonable restriction which is not protected by Article 19(2) of the

Constitution. Further, the basis on which Section 33A was found to be

violative of Article 19(1)(g) may also be relevant. We would, therefore,

like to cull out the main features of the discussion contained in Indian

Hotel and Restaurants Association (1) Indian Hotel and

Restaurants Association (1). These are: While making these remarks, the Court specifically rejected the

findings in PRAYAS and Shubhada Chaukar's Reports. (b) Argument of the State to justify the provision based on intelligible

differentia, viz., that women who perform in the banned establishment 74 come from grossly deprived backgrounds and are a vulnerable lot who

are trafficked into bar dancing, was specifically rejected by pointing out

that there was no material/evidence to support such a plea. Nothing in

this behalf was stated in the Statement of Objects and Reasons and this

plea was projected for the first time in the affidavit filed before the High

Court. The Court, in the process, held that such a plea was based on

PRAYAS and Shubhada Chaukar's Reports. In the opinion of the Court,

isolated examples given therein would not be sufficient to establish the

connection of dance bars covered under Section 33A with trafficking. (c) Performance of dance in such places could not be covered by the

principle of res extra commercium. Prohibition on such a commercial

activity, which was a fundamental right, had to meet the test of

‘reasonable restriction’. However, held the Court, the State had failed to

establish that the restriction is reasonable or that it is in the interest of

general public. (d) There are already sufficient rules and regulations and legislations

in place which, if efficiently apply, would control (if not eradicate) all the

dangers to the society enumerated in the preamble and the Statement of

Objects and Reasons of the impugned legislation. Such legislations as

well as rules and regulations were specifically noted in Paras 127 to 131. 75 (e) The Court held, in para 132 of the judgment, that the Rules under

 the Bombay Police Act have been framed in the interest of public safety

 and social welfare and to safeguard the dignity of women as well as to

 prevent exploitation of women. There is no material placed on record by

 the State to show that it was not possible to deal with the situation within

 the framework of the existing laws, except for the unfounded

 conclusions recorded in the Preamble as well as the Statement of

 Objects and Reasons. (f) Argument of the State that impugned enactment is a form of

 additional regulation, as it was felt that the existing system of licence

 and permits were insufficient to deal with the problem of ever increasing

 dance bars, was specifically rejected. (g) The Court also mentioned the effect of Section 33A in the following

 words: Social change is of two types: continuous or evolutionary and

 discontinuous or revolutionary25. The most common form of change is

 continuous. This day-to-day incremental change is a subtle, but

 dynamic, factor in social analysis. It cannot be denied that dance

 performances, in dignified forms, are socially acceptable and nobody

 takes exceptions to the same. On the other hand, obscenity is treated

 as immoral. Therefore, obscene dance performance may not be

 acceptable and the State can pass a law prohibiting obscene dances.

 However, a practice which may not be immoral by societal standards

 cannot be thrusted upon the society as immoral by the State with its own

 notion of morality and thereby exercise ‘social control’. Furthermore,

 and in any case, any legislation of this nature has to pass the muster of

25 See A. Etzioni and E. Etzioni (eds.), Social Change (1964); W. Moore, Social
Change (1963), W. Moore and R. Cook (eds.), Readings on Social Change (1967). 81 constitutional provisions as well. We have examined the issues raised

 in the aforesaid context. 78) This brings us to the Principle of res extra commercium. Insofar as

 dance performances are concerned, it has already been held that it is

 not res extra commercium. We would, at this stage, again refer to

 Indian Hotel and Restaurants Association (1) where these aspects

 are dealt with as under: This Court entirely rejected the said contention in the following words: Re: Section 2(8)(i) of the Act 80) Section 2(8) defines obscene dance. In the main body, it states

 that any dance which comes within the meaning of Section 294 of IPC 83 and any other law for time being in force, shall be treated as ‘obscene

 dance’. To this extent, there is no quarrel. The argument is that the

 definition of obscene dance is expanded beyond Section 294 of the IPC

 by specifically including following forms of dance: 26 1985 SCC Online US SC 165: 472 US 491 (1985) : 105 S.Ct. 2794 : 86 L.Ed.2d 394 85 "9. The Court of Appeals was of the view that neither Roth v.
United States, 354 U.S. 476, 77 S.Ct. 1304, 1 L.Ed.2d 1498
(1957), nor later cases should be read to include within the
definition of obscenity those materials that appeal to only normal
sexual appetites. Roth held that the protection of the First
Amendment did not extend to obscene speech, which was to be
identified by inquiring "whether to the average person, applying
contemporary community standards, the dominant theme of the
material taken as a whole appeals to prurient interest."Id., at 489,
77 S.Ct., at 1311 (footnote omitted). Earlier in its opinion, id., at
487, n. 20, 77 S.Ct., at 1310, n. 20, the Court had defined
"material which deals with sex in a manner appealing to prurient
interest" as: as used earlier in the footnote was limited to or included normal
sexual responses. [ This conclusion is bolstered by a subsequent
footnote, 354 U.S., at 489, n. 26, 77 S.Ct., at 1311, n. 26, referring
to a number of cases defining obscenity in terms of "lust" or
"lustful." See Parmelee v. United States, 72 App.D.C. 203, 210,
113 F.2d 729, 736 (1940) (material is protected if "the erotic
matter is not introduced to promote lust"); United States v.
Dennett, 39 F.2d 564, 569 (CA2 1930) (sex education pamphlet
not obscene because tendency is to "rationalize and dignify [sex]
emotions rather than to arouse lust"); United States v. One Book
Called "Ulysses," 5 F.Supp. 182, 184 (SDNY 1933), aff'd, 72 F.2d
705 (CA2 1934) (meaning of the word "obscene" is "[t]ending to
stir the sex impulses or to lead to sexually impure and lustful
thoughts"); Commonwealth v. Isenstadt, 318 Mass. 543, 549-550,
62 N.E.2d 840, 844 (1945) (material is obscene if it has "a
substantial tendency to deprave or corrupt its readers by inciting
lascivious thoughts or arousing lustful desire"); Missouri v. Becker,
364 Mo. 1079, 1085, 272 S.W.2d 283, 286 (1954) (materials are
obscene if they "incite lascivious thoughts, arouse lustful desire");
Adams Theatre Co. v. Keenan, 12 N.J. 267, 272, 96 A.2d 519,
521 (1953) (BRENNAN, J.) (question is whether "dominant note of
the presentation is erotic allurement 'tending to excite lustful and
lecherous desire' ").] It would require more than the possible
ambiguity in footnote 20 to lead us to believe that the Court
intended to characterize as obscene and exclude from the
protection of the First Amendment any and all speech that
aroused any sexual responses, whether normal or morbid.” 87 86) South African Court followed the aforesaid American approach,

 which can be seen from the following discussion in Patrick v. Minister

 of Safety and Security27: Om Pal Singh Hoon28: 88) This Court in Raj Kapoor & Ors. v. State & Ors.29 considered the

 question: When can a film to be publicly exhibited be castigated as

 prurient and obscene and violative of norms against venereal depravity.

 Thus, nowhere it is challenged as a vague term, incapable of precise

 definition. 89) It, therefore, cannot be said that a dance which is aimed at

 arousing the prurient interest of the audience is vague term, incapable of

 definite connotation. It is, more so, when Section 292 IPC particularly

 uses this expression in the deeming provision relating to obscenity.

 Re: Whether Section 6(4) of the Act is violative of equality clause

 enshrined in Article 19(1) of the Constitution? 90) This provision forbids grant of licence for discotheque or orchestra

 where licence under this Act is granted. Conversely it also forbids grant

 of licence under this Act for the place for which a licence for discotheque

 or orchestra has been granted. It means that in respect of a particular

 place, a licence would be granted either for dance bars or for

 discotheque/orchestra and not for both purposes. Submission is that

 there is no rationale for such a provision. The reply given by the

29 (1980) 1 SCC 43 89 respondents is that the purpose behind the aforesaid provision is to put

 stringent licence conditions for dance bars, which would not be possible

 if discotheque or orchestra as also on the same place where there is a

 dance bar. We hardly find this to be a valid justification. The impugned

 provision, in our view, is totally arbitrary and irrational and has no nexus

 with the so-called purpose sought to be achieved. We, therefore, strike

 down Section 6(4) of the Act as unconstitutional.

 Re: Whether punishment provided under Section 8(2) of the Act is

 discriminatory and offends Article 14 of the Constitution? 91) Precise submission of the petitioners in this behalf is that this

 punishment is for those who allow obscene dance etc. Obscenity is also

 an offence under Section 294 IPC which is punishable with

 imprisonment that may extend to three months. In contrast, as per the

 impugned provision, the imprisonment may extend to three years. It is,

 thus, argued that for the same offence, whereas the Central Act

 prescribes imprisonment upto three months, the prescription of

 imprisonment upto three years in Section 8(2) of the Act is violative of Article 14 and is in conflict with the IPC i.e. the central law. We are not

 impressed with this argument. As rightly argued by the respondents,

 sub-section (2) has to be read along with sub-section (1) of Section 8 .

 Under Section 8(1) , if the place is used in contravention of Section 3 , it 90 is made a punishable offence. It means that where a hotel, restaurant,

 bar room or any place is used for staging dances without obtaining a

 licence under Section 3 of the Act, that is made a punishable offence.

 However, even if licence is obtained, that would not mean that place can

 be used for obscene dance performances or for exploiting working

 women for any immoral purpose. It is these acts which are made

 punishable under sub-section (2). In this manner, the offence under Section 8(2) is somewhat different from the offence that is stipulated in Section 294 IPC which is clear from the language of Section 294, that

 reads as under: Re: Whether Section 8(4) of the Act is arbitrary and violative of Article

 14? 93) This provision is to be read with condition Nos. 6, 7 and 8 of Part

 B. It makes throwing or showering coins, currency notes or any article

 or anything which can be monetized on the stage or handing over

 personally such notes, to a dancer is banned and treated as an offence. 91 Further stipulation in these provisions is that any tip to be given should

be added in the bill only and is not to be given to the performers etc.

The justification given by the State is that showering of money etc. is a

method of inducement which has to be curbed keeping in view that Act

aims to protect the dignity of women. According to the respondents, Section 354A of IPC which is a moral code of the society and the State

is only attempting to preserve this moral code by enacting such a

provision. We are of the opinion that insofar as throwing or showering

coins, currency notes etc. is concerned, the provision is well justified as

it aims at checking any untoward incident as the aforesaid Act has

tendency to create a situation of indecency. Therefore, whatever money,

any appreciation of any dance performance, has to be given, can be

done without throwing or showering such coins etc. However, there may

not be any justification in giving such tips only by adding thereto in the

bills to be raised by the administration of the place. On the contrary, if

that is done, the person who is rightful recipient of such tips may be

denied the same. Further, State cannot impose a particular manner of

tipping as it is entirely a matter between an employer and performer on

the one hand and the performer and the visitor on the other hand. We,

therefore, uphold the provision insofar as it prohibits throwing or

showering of coins, currency notes or any article or anything which can

be monetised on the stage. However, handing over of the notes to the 92 dancers personally is not inappropriate. We also set aside the provision

 of giving the tips only by adding the same in the bills. 94) Vide Section 12 , Grievance Redressal Committee is constituted.

 Grievance of Mr. Nayyar, as noted above, is that it should have

 representation of bar dancers as well. Though, such a representation

 may be desirable, that by itself cannot be a ground to invalidate a

 legislation. We, therefore, leave it to the law makers to consider this

 aspect. Legality of certain Rules 95) Insofar as Rule 3(3)(i) is concerned, there is a substance in the

 submission of the petitioners that it is quite vague. As per this sub-rule,

 a person is entitled to obtain or hold licence who possesses a ‘good

 character’ and ‘antecedents’ and he should not have any history of

 ‘criminal record’ in the past ten years. However, the terms ‘good

 character’ or ‘antecedents’ or ‘criminal record’ are not definite or precise.

 These expressions are capable of any interpretation and, therefore, it is

 left to the wisdom of the licensing authority to adjudge whether a

 particular person possesses good character or good antecedents or not.

 Likewise, insofar as history of criminal record is concerned, it is not

 spelled out as to whether such a criminal record is based on conviction

 in a case or mere lodging of FIR would be termed as criminal record. 93 We, therefore, quash the provision in the present form, but, at the same

 time, give liberty to the rule making authority to have suitable provision

 of precise nature. Consequently, condition No. 16 of Part B in the

 present form is also set aside, with liberty as aforesaid. 96) Adverting to Condition No. 2 of Part A of general conditions (GOC),

 it can be dissected as under: In essence, it segregates bar room area from hotel and restaurant. (iii) Fixed partition is prescribed between permit room and dance

 room. 97) It is this part which is taken exception of by the petitioners. We

 find that on an earlier occasion, similar condition was struck down by

 this Court. Even otherwise, we do not find any rationality or justification

 in imposing such a condition which appears to be quite unreasonable

 and there cannot be any rationale in this provision having regard to any

 objective sought to be achieved. Therefore, this provision is struck

 down. 98) As far as condition No.11 of Part A is concerned which stipulates

 that the place where dance is to be performed shall be at least 1 km

 away from the educational and religious institutions, the petitioners are

 right in their submission that such a condition does not take into account

 the ground realities particularly in the city of Mumbai where it would be

 difficult to find any place which is 1 km away from either an education

 institution or a religious institution. This, therefore, amounts to fulfilling

 an impossible condition and the effect thereof is that, at no place, in

 Mumbai, licence would be granted. Therefore, this condition is also held

 to be arbitrary and unreasonable and is quashed, with liberty to the

 respondents to prescribe the distance from educational and religious

 institutions, which is reasonable and workable. 99) Insofar as condition No.2 of Part B is concerned, it imposes an

 obligation on the employers to the effect that working women, the

 dancers and waiters/waitresses must be employed under a written

 contract on a monthly salary. Further, this monthly salary is to be

 deposited in their bank accounts with all the benefits required under the

 law. Copy of such contracts is to be deposited with the licensing

 authority as well. Insofar as provision relating to entering into a written

 contract as well as depositing of the remuneration in the bank accounts

 is concerned, it appears to be justified as it would make the conditions

 on which such working women, dancers and waiters/waitresses are 95 employed, transparent thereby eliminating or minimising any chances of

exploitation or other disputes. However, the condition of employing such

persons on monthly salary does not stand the judicial scrutiny. This

shows that such persons are to be employed in a particular manner i.e.

on monthly basis. There can be other modes of employment

permissible in law and the employers have legal right to adopt such

modes. For example, it could be employment on contract basis i.e.

where the remuneration can be fixed for each performance. Moreover, it

impinges upon the rights of such workers as well who may, otherwise,

be free to give their performances at more than one place. Therefore, it

imposes restriction even upon such employees and infringes their right

under Article 19(1)(g). This is the grievance raised on behalf of such

women in the petition argued by Mr. Nayyar who submitted that the

provisions adversely affect women dancers by (i) restricting their

freedom to move from one bar to another at their will, if the work

conditions or the returns are not suitable; (ii) prohibit them from

monetizing dances other than by way of receiving salary or shared tips.

More importantly, the State Government has failed to show any

compelling public interest to curtail the choices of women performers.

We find substance in the aforesaid submission and, therefore, set aside

this part of Condition No. 2. We make it clear that the provisions for

written contract, deposit of the remuneration in the bank accounts of the 96 employee as well as submission of these written contracts with the

 licensing authority are appropriate. Rest of the provision is struck down. 100) Adverting to the condition No. 9 of Part B which prescribes timing

 of such dance performances only between 6 pm to 11:30 pm, we do not

 find it to be manifestly unreasonable. Merely because establishments

 are otherwise open until 1:30 am (next day) or 12:30 am (next day) does

 not mean that the State has no power to restrict the time of dance

 performances till 11:30 pm. Even a period of 6 pm to 11:30 pm for

 dance performances is quite sufficient and substantial as it allows 5½

 hours of such performances. We, therefore, uphold this condition. 101) Condition No. 12 of Part B prescribes serving of alcohol in the bar

 room where dances are staged. This is totally disproportionate,

 unreasonable and arbitrary. We see no reason as to why the liquor

 cannot be served at such places. It seems that State is more influenced

 by moralistic overtones under wrong presumption that persons after

 consuming alcohol would misbehave with the dancers. If this is so, such

 a presumption would be equally applicable to bar rooms where the

 alcohol is served by women waitresses. However, such conditions have

 been held to be unreasonable by the Courts. There may be aberrations

 or sporadic incidents of this nature which can happen not only at the

 places where dance performances are staged but at other places 97 including bar rooms and even main restaurants. Other measures have

 to be adopted to check such a nuance. There cannot be a complete

 prohibition from serving alcoholic beverages. We, therefore, quash

 condition No. 12. 102) Condition No. 20 of Part B mandates installing of CCTV Cameras.

 This again would be totally inappropriate and amounts to invasion of

 privacy and is, thus, violative of Articles 14 , 19(1)(a) and 21 of the

 Constitution as held in K.S. Puttaswamy case, where the Court

 observed: .............................................J.
 (A.K. SIKRI)

 .............................................J.
 (ASHOK BHUSHAN)
NEW DELHI; JANUARY 17, 2019.