1. The petition has been filed by the Common Cause (a registered

 Society) and others purportedly in public interest, a prayer has been

 made to issue an appropriate writ quashing the appointment of Mr.

 K.V. Chowdary, Central Vigilance Commissioner (in short ‘CVC’) and

 Mr. T.M. Bhasin, Vigilance Commissioner (in short, ‘VC’). The Union Signature Not Verified Digitally signed by NEELAM GULATI of India had appointed Mr. K.V. Chowdary as CVC on 6.6.2015 and Date: 2018.07.02 16:04:03 IST Reason: 1 Mr. T.M. Bhasin as VC on 11.6.2015 for a period of four years. The

main ground urged to quash the appointment is that it is illegal and

void   as   there   is   violation   of   principles   of   impeccable   integrity   and

institutional   integrity   laid   down   in   the   judgments   of   this   Court   in Vineet Narain & Ors. v. Union of India & Anr. (1998) 1 SCC 226 and

Centre for PIL  & Anr.  v. Union of India & Anr. (2011) 4 SCC 1. 2. In the writ petition filed by the Centre for Integrity, Governance,

and Training in Vigilance Administration and another, a prayer has

been made to direct the Union of India and/or its instrumentalities to

provide for minimum number of years of knowledge and experience in

the field of vigilance for being appointed as CVC or VC. During the

pendency  of   the   writ  application,  with   the  permission   of  the  court,

this   Court   had   permitted   respondent   No.1   to   proceed   with   the

appointment   of   CVC   and   VC   under section   4(1) of   the   Central

Vigilance Commission Act, 2003 (for short, “the Act”) subject to the

decision of the petition. The appointments have been made and the

challenge is confined to the appointments of CVC and VC. 3. It is urged by the Common Cause Society that Central Vigilance

Commission is, in the absence of a Lokpal, India’s top anti­corruption

body. The Commission is considered the apex integrity and watchdog

institution   of   the   country.   Apart   from   overseeing   the   vigilance 2 administration, it has also the power of superintendence over the CBI

in corruption cases and is also the designated agency for protection of

the   whistle­blowers   to   examine   their   complaints.   It   oversees

functioning of the Central Government and its instrumentalities. 4. This Court in Vineet Narain (supra) has observed that Central

Vigilance Commission shall be given statutory status. The Selection

Committee   has   to   select   a   person   of   impeccable   integrity   and   the

appointment   shall   be   made   by   the   President.   Pursuant   thereto,

Parliament has enacted Central Vigilance Commission Act, 2003 and

Selection   Committee   comprises   of   the   Prime   Minister,   the   Home

Minister, and the Leader of the Opposition. 5. In  Centre   for PIL (supra)   this   Court   had   quashed   the

appointment   of   the   then   CVC   by   declaring   decision   of   Selection

Committee   to   the   President   for   appointment   as   non­est.   It   was

observed by this Court that the activity of decision making process

has to ensure that the powers are exercised for the purpose and in

the   manner   in   which   the   said   Act   provides   otherwise   the

recommendation   has   no   existence   in   the   eyes   of   law.   This   Court

directed   that   the   legality   of   the   exercise   of   selection   is   subject   to

judicial review. All civil servants and other persons empaneled shall

be outstanding civil servants or persons of impeccable integrity, made 3 on   rational   criteria   reflected   by   recording   vigilance   and/or   notings

akin   to   reasons.   Complete   information   with   material   and   data

whether favourable or adverse has to be forwarded. Nothing material

or   relevant   should   be   withheld.   Contemporaneous   service   record,

even adverse remarks, are specifically to be brought to the notice of

Selection Committee. Process of selection by the Committee has to be

fair and transparent. 6. It is averred in the petition that the absolute requirement is that

Central Vigilance Officer should have unblemished record of service.

The appointment of Mr. K.V. Chowdary, respondent No.2 as CVC has

been assailed on the basis of facts mentioned in the complaint. Prior

to that, he was the Chairperson of CBDT and Advisor to the SIT on

black   money.   Before   his   appointment,   several   representations   were

made to the Prime Minister of India, who heads the selection panel as

provided in section 4 of the Act. As it transpired that the Government

had made up its mind to appoint respondent No.2, representations

were made giving specific reasons as to why he was not eligible and

suitable   for   heading   the   Commission.   Despite   representations,   his

appointment had been made.   Firstly, it is submitted that Mr. K.V.

Chowdary had been  meeting with the then CBI Director Mr. Ranjit

Sinha   and   had   been   regularly   meeting   the   accused   in   the   cases 4 investigated   by   the   CBI   in   the   2G   scam   cases.   This   Court   had

directed   on   20.11.2015   in   Civil   Appeal   No.10660   of   2010,   the   CBI

Director not to interfere in the investigation process carried out by the

CBI in the 2G scam case and to recuse himself from 2G scam case.

This   Court   had   also   observed   in   the   judgment   dated   14.5.2015   in

Writ Petition [C] No.463 of 2012 that Mr. Ranjit Sinha’s meetings with

accused in coal scam were completely inappropriate, and his role in

allegedly   scuttling   investigations   in   coal   scam   case   needs   to   be

investigated. 7. It   is   further   averred   in   the   petition   that   Mr.   Ranjit   Sinha,

Director   of   CBI   met   Mr.   K.V.   Chowdary   when   he   was   probing   the

dealings of and intercepted conversation of hawala dealer Mr. Moin

Qureshi who was known to Mr. Ranjit Sinha and who had met him

approximately   90   times   at   his   residence.   These   meetings   also   took

place   when   Mr.   Ranjit   Sinha/CBI   was   investigating   “Stock   Guru

Scam”   where   senior   income   tax   officers   were   involved   and   the   CBI

was investigating the role of respondent No.2. The CBI inquiry had

found   that   senior   income   tax   officer   had   taken   bribes   for   showing

favours to scamsters and had also misappropriated over Rs.40 crores.

The officers who were involved were working directly under Mr. K.V.

Chowdary, respondent No.2. 5 8. The Income Tax Department in its report on Mr. Moin Qureshi

gave   a   clean   chit   to   Mr.   Sinha   and   CBI   gave   a   clean   chit   to

respondent   No.2   in   Stock   Guru   scam.   Thus,   respondent   No.2   Mr.

K.V. Chowdary and CBI Director, Mr. Ranjit Sinha helped each other

in the investigation being carried out by the agencies under them. 9. One   Mr.   Anil   Kumar   Agarwal   had   made   a   complaint   to   the

Finance   Ministry   on   10.6.2014   pointing   out   the   manner   in   which

respondent   No.2   was   being   shielded   in   Stock   Guru   scam.   Earlier

respondent   No.2   had   taken   credit   for   taking   action   against   Stock

Guru before the scam involving income tax officers came to light. He

could   not   distance   himself   from   the   scam   as   the   entire   episode

happened under his watch. 10. Respondent   No.2   had   abused   his   position   as   Member

(Investigation),   CBDT   to   under­assess   the   income   of   the   company

M/s. Flora and Fauna Housing & Land Development Pvt. Ltd. which

is   associated   with   infamous   Mr.   Ponty   Chadha.   The   under­

assessment was to the extent of Rs.234/­ crores. Mr. K.V. Chowdary

followed a procedure allegedly unknown to law by giving direction to

the   assessing   officer  to   dispose   of   the   case   in   a  particular  manner

whereas no such direction could have been issued. 6 11. It is further averred in the petition that one of the members of

the   Common   Cause   Society   made   the   following   allegations   in   the

representation : 12. As against respondent No.3, Mr. T.M. Bhasin appointed as VC

the case set up by the petitioner is that he had been serving as the

CMD   in   the   public   sector   Indian   Bank   from   1.4.2010   with   its

headquarters in Chennai, who was indicted in a detailed inquiry by

the CVC  in 2013 for forging and tampering with the appraisal report

of   the   then   General   Manager   of   Indian   Bank   which   is   a   criminal 7 offence. One Mr. Malay Mukherjee in this connection had complained

on 11.7.2011 that his Annual Performance Appraisal Report (APAR)

has been tampered. It was found by the Commission that APAR was

mala   fidely  tampered   and   forged   and   grading   of   ‘excellent’   was

substituted by ‘average’ with a view to destroy the career of Mr. Malay

Mukherjee.   It   was   a   criminal   offence   for   which   investigation   was

suggested to establish the facts. However, another VC had stated that

departmental action be taken. The then CVC approved departmental

action. On that office memorandum dated 11.12.2012 was issued to

Department of Financial Services (DFS), Government of India to take

departmental action against Mr. Bhasin. 13. In   response   to   the   aforesaid,   the   Department   of   Financial

Services wrote to the Commission that departmental action may not

stand   scrutiny   of   law.   The   opinion   was   reiterated   by   the   then   VC

which was approved by the CVC, however, Department of Financial

Services said that the matter ought to be closed and Mr. Bhasin was

cautioned.   The   same   was   approved   by   the   Commission   and   was

carried out by the Government of India. It is averred that yet another

important political functionary wrote a letter to the Prime Minister on

11.6.2015 stating  that charge  against Mr.  Bhasin was very serious

and the recommendation of Selection Committee to appoint him must 8 be withdrawn. Thus, Mr. Bhasin by no stretch of imagination can be

said to have impeccable integrity or unblemished record as per the

requirement of law. Thus, the appointments are illegal, arbitrary, in

negation of rule of law and therefore in violation of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution of India. It is averred that transparency was not

followed and there was no scope for public inputs. Complaints made

against   respondent   Nos.   2   and   3   were   not   duly   considered.   Thus,

transparency   was   not   observed.   Non­production   of   serious   adverse

material and representations against respondent Nos. 2 and 3 would

vitiate the appointment process and in case material was produced,

and   despite   that   appointments   were   made,   then   the   appointments

would be mala fide, arbitrary and illegal. 14. In   the   counter   affidavit   filed   by   respondent   No.1   in   case   of

Common Cause, as per section 3(3) of the Act, for appointment to the

post   of   CVC   as   well   as   VC,   the   person   must   have   knowledge   and

experience in the matters relating to (a) vigilance, (b) policy making

and   (c)   administration   including   police   administration.   Therefore,

fixing minimum years of experience exclusively in any of the above

fields   would   be   contrary   to   the   expressed   legislative   intent   which

requires that such person must have knowledge and experience in all

the three fields.   The decision of this Court in Centre for PIL (supra) 9 has   been   relied   upon.   The   guidelines   laid   down   therein   have   been

duly   complied   with.   The   guidelines   framed   provided   the   criteria   as

well   as   the   procedure   to   be   followed,   inviting   nominations,

shortlisting of eligible candidates, final selection, to be made by the

Committee. The vacancies inviting applications for the posts of CVC

and VC were issued by respondent No.1 vide O.M. dated 13.10.2014.

It was uploaded on the website of Department of Personnel & Training

(DoPT) and the advertisement published in newspapers also referred

to   the   vacancy   circular.   The   process   adopted   by   respondent   No.1

included inviting applications through advertisement from all eligible

persons, thereafter scrutiny and sorting of the applications under a

welldefined   criterion   was   done   by   a   Committee   of   Secretaries   and,

thereafter,   the   list   was   furnished   to   the   Committee   as   provided   in section 4 of the Act. A fully transparent process had been adopted.

Office Memorandum dated 13.10.2014 has prescribed eligibility and

other requirements as under: All the applicants should be of outstanding merit and
 impeccable integrity and should have knowledge and at least
 25 years of experience in the relevant field(s). The applicants should not be more than 62 years of age as on
 1st January 2015 so that the persons to be considered for
 selection will get at least 3 years tenure as a Central Vigilance
 Commissioner or the Vigilance Commissioner." 15. Experience   of   25   years   has   been   prescribed   in   the   relevant

field(s). Advertisements were published in three leading newspapers,

i.e., Times of India, The Hindu, and Dainik Bhaskar (Hindi Daily) in

all their editions in India on 14.10.2014 inviting applications for the

aforesaid   posts.   The   last   date   of   receiving   the   applications   was

5.11.2014. It was also uploaded on the website ‘www.persmin.nic.in’

by   DoPT.   The   publication   has   been   certified   as   per   the 11 communication   received   from   the   Directorate   of   Advertising   and

Visual   Publicity   (DAVP),   Ministry   of   Information   &   Broadcasting,   it

has been placed on record. Multiple channels of communication were

utilised to give wide publicity to the advertisement. 16. Pursuant   to   the   advertisement,   total   132   applications   were

received for the said posts, out of which 120 were received by the cut­

off date. Following is the data of the applications received : 17. It is further contended by respondent No.1 that the first meeting

of   the   Committee   headed   by   the   Prime   Minister   was   held   on

23.5.2015 which was attended by the Home Minister and the leader

of  Congress   Legislative   Party.   The  Committee  went  through  agenda

containing the details, notwithstanding the shortlisting of details of

all the 132 applicants and decided to obtain further information of

certain candidates. 18. On   23.5.2015,   a   communication   was   received   from   the   PMO

containing extracts of all allegations from a representation made by

one   of   the   members   of   the   Common   Cause   vide   his   letter   dated

20.5.2015 and requesting for inputs on the said allegations against

Mr. K.V. Chowdary. The same was sent on 25.5.2015 to CBI and the

Department of Revenue for their inputs. The PMO also requested the

IB  on  23.5.2015  to  provide   their  inputs.  The  following  replies   were

received : (iii) Inputs from IB were received in PMO on 26.05.2015 and in DoPT
 on 28.05.2015 and is part of the record that was placed before the
 Committee. 13 (iv) A reply on ACR was received on 29.05.2015 and is part of the
 record that was placed before the Committee.” 19. The Agenda note for the second meeting to be held on 1.6.2015

was   circulated   on   27.5.2015   which   included   the   details   of   all

complaints   against   various   candidates   including   the   closed

complaints. With respect to Mr. K.V. Chowdary, it was mentioned in

the agenda note that other inputs will be placed before the Committee

during   the   meeting   as   some   inputs   were   awaited.   Accordingly,

additional inputs with the gist of the complaints regarding Mr. K.V.

Chowdary were placed before the Committee in the second meeting

held   on   1.6.2015.   The   gist   with   annexures   at   correspondence

containing   plethora   of   documents   of   File   No.399/15/2014­AVD­III

was made available.  Not only the complaints/documents but a brief

summary   of   the   complaints   and   the   inputs   obtained   from   various

agencies including the gist of the note for Mr. K.V. Chowdary were

also placed before the Committee. The gist included the details and

the   inputs   received   from   various   agencies   like   CBI,   IB,   and

Department of Revenue. On 1.6.2015 a letter from the Department of

Revenue   was   received   stating   that   no   adverse   remarks   have   been

found in the Appraisal Performance Report of available ACRs. of Mr.

K.V.   Chowdary   for   the   period   from   1978   to   2013­14.   Letter   dated 14 26.5.2015 of another public functionary regarding Mr. K.V. Chowdary

was also placed before the Committee. 20. It   is   further   contended   that   the   details   of   the   complaints

including the closed complaints against Mr. T.M. Bhasin along with

inputs in relation to the same were also part of the agenda at para 3.7

and   Annexure   E   which   was   placed   before   the   Committee.   The

Committee   after   taking   into   consideration   all   the   material   placed

before it recorded thus: 21. The   file   was   sent   to   the   Hon.   President   of   India   through

MOS(PP) and then by the PMO on 5.6.2015 containing the agenda as

well   as   the   gist   of   the   complaints   which   was   received   from   the

President’s   Secretariat   on   8.6.2015   along   with   the   Warrants   of

Appointment   and   order   of   oath.   After   obtaining   their   consent,   the

Warrants   of   Appointment   were   handed   over  personally   to   both   Mr. 15 K.V.Chowdary and Mr. T.M.Bhasin and the order on oath was also

sent  to  CVC  on  8.6.2015.  The   decision  taken   by  the  Committee  to

appoint them was unanimous. Respondent Nos.2 and 3 were found to

be eligible. Allegations were not found substantiated. The Committee

had   taken   note   of   inputs   received   from   various   investigation   and

intelligence   agencies   and   after   satisfying  themselves   the   allegations

were found untenable and that they were the persons of impeccable

integrity and satisfied the requirement of law, had recommended the

appointments. There was no procedural irregularity or illegality. The

present petition is in no manner public interest litigation. Complaints

were   baseless.   There   was   no   illegality   or   arbitrariness   in   their

appointments. 22. In   the   counter   affidavit   filed   by   respondent   No.2,   Mr.   K.V.

Chowdary, it is contended that petition is based upon hearsay and

letters written by third parties. The decision in P.J. Thomas case does

not apply. In the case of  P.J. Thomas  incriminating material against

him was not placed before the High Power Committee (HPC) and as

such this Court had made interference. Mr. P.J. Thomas was accused

of   an   offence   under section   13(2) read   with section   13(1)(d) of   the

Prevention of Corruption Act (for short, “ PC Act ”) and section 120B of

Indian Penal Code, 1860 (for short, “ IPC ”). The Charge­sheet was filed 16 before the Special Judge, Thiruvananthapuram. The definite role was

attributed   to   him   and   there   were   several   allegations   made   against

him.   A   note   was   put   up   for   holding   a   departmental   inquiry   for

imposing   a   major   penalty.   The   Central   Vigilance   Commission   had

sent the opinion to initiate major penalty proceedings against Mr. P.J.

Thomas and another. The High Court of Kerala in its judgment had

also alleged the role of Mr. P.J. Thomas in Palmolein case. The action

of the State Government for initiating criminal case or pendency of

the case or penalty before Special Judge, Thiruvananthapuram was

never questioned  or  challenged  by  Mr.  Thomas  before  any  court of

competent jurisdiction. Later, CVC had changed the opinion without

any   reason   while   giving   vigilance   clearance   on   6.10.2008. Besides

this, Court has made observations in one of its earlier judgments in K. Karunakaran  v. State of Kerala (2000) 3 SCC 761 about the role of

accused in pending case before Special Judge, Thiruvananthapuram

in Palmolein case. 23. It is contended that in the instant case against respondent No.2,

there   is   no   such   incriminating   material   borne   out   from   official

records.   The   allegations   are   unfounded,   made   by   busy­bodies   with

sinister   motives.   The   High   Power   Committee   along   with   reports   of

various   authorities,   Department   of   Revenue,   CBI   and   Intelligence 17 Bureau had examined the allegations which belie the correctness of

the unfounded allegations. Mr. Anil Kumar Agrawal has annexed the

ground   against   respondent   No.2.   The   answering   respondent   in   his

capacity   as   Director   General   of   Income   tax   (Inv)   Delhi   (DGIT)   had

granted approval in the year 2011 for initiating criminal prosecution

under section 182 IPC against Mr. Agrawal. Further, the proceedings

were   instituted   by   the   Institute   of   Chartered   Accountants   of   India

based on a complaint filed by an officer working under the answering

respondent.   Since   then,   Mr.   Agrawal   had   started   personally

attacking,   writing   a   volley   of   frivolous   and   vexatious   complaints   to

many authorities in the Government etc. Complaints by other public

institutions   smack   of   venom   against   several   political   persons.   The

petition has not been filed with due diligence. Facts have not been

verified by filing applications under the RTI Act or some other legal

means.   They   have   relied   upon   motivated   complaint   by   Mr.   Anil

Agrawal who was seeking pound of flesh from answering respondent

for   aforesaid   reasons.   The   allegations   are   not   supported   by   any

evidence   whatsoever.   Petitioners   have   not   explained   the   basis.   Mr.

Anil   Agrawal   had   written   hundreds   of   letters   against   answering

respondent   No.2   when   he   was   being   considered   for   the   post   of

Member, CBDT, Chairman, CBDT and finally while being considered

for the post of CVC. Mr. Agrawal had supplied false and motivated 18 information to one of the members of the Common Cause and other

political functionaries to initiate frivolous and vexatious proceedings.

It amounts to a proxy war by Mr. Anil Agrawal through the petitioners

and   other   public   functionaries.   One   of   the   members   of   Common

Cause   had   unleashed   a   slander   campaign   in   the   social   media  and

press   during   the   selection   process   with   a   view   to   prejudice   the

Selection  Committee.  Communications  were released to  media even

while the selection process was in progress, it apparently intended to

damage   the   prospects   of   selection   of   answering   respondent   No.2.

Thus,   it   was   made   an   issue   private   and   personal   to   them.   The

allegations made fall short of the minimum standard of credibility. An

effort has been made to somehow indict the answering respondent by

placing  reliance  on  a letter  Annexure  P3  in  which  false  statements

were   made   about   the   answering   respondent's   service   record   that

three senior officers  of  CBDT  made serious adverse remarks in  his

performance   appraisal   reports.   Thus,   the   petitioners   are   guilty   of

malice   in   law  by  stating  incorrect  facts.   For perjury,   petitioners  be

prosecuted. 24. It is further contended by respondent No.2 in reply that while he

was  posted  as   Director General  of  Income  tax   (Investigation),  Delhi

from   1.11.2010   to   28.8.2012   and   further   from   29.8.2012   to 19 29.7.2014 he was posted as Member, CBDT. Thus, he was a Member

(Inv)   CBDT   from   12.10.2012   to   31.10.2014.   His   duties   included

overall   supervision   of   investigations   under   the   direct   tax   laws   and

formulation of policies relating to direct taxes. He was appointed as

Chairman,   CBDT,   Department   of   Revenue   from   1.8.2014   to

31.10.2014. After his superannuation, he was appointed as Advisor

to Department of Revenue on black money and functioned as such

from 1.11.2014 to 4.6.2015. 25. It is further contended by respondent that he had investigated,

supervised   and   monitored   several   cases   of   large   business   houses,

politically   sensitive   persons,   and   bureaucrats   holding   very   high

offices, scams including 2G, commonwealth games and persons who

were allocated coal blocks, chit fund scams, undisclosed foreign bank

accounts   including   in   HSBC,   Geneva   etc.   Many   cases   investigated

under   his   supervision   finally   led   to   detection   and   assessment   of

substantial   undisclosed   income   and   criminal   prosecutions.   During

his tenure as Member (Inv) the number of cases in which prosecution

proceedings   were   launched,   went   up   from   149   to   669   and   further

offences compounded increased from 83 to 900. Respondent No.2 was

adjudged   one   of   the   best   Probationers   during   training   and   was

awarded   silver   medal,   was   promoted   out   of   turn   from   Deputy 20 Commissioner   of   Income   tax   to   Joint   CIT   on   being   graded   as

"outstanding" by UPSC. Very few may be 15 to 20 officers hold such

record in the IRS at all times put together. His work, conduct, and

integrity had always been rated at the highest level, ACRs. recorded

by   a   wide   range   of   officers   over   a   period   of   years   bear   sufficient

testimony.   A   verbatim   extract   of   the   remarks   of   the   reporting   and

reviewing officers has been annexed as R2/1 to the counter affidavit. 26. It is further contended that his application dated 7.8.2014 was

duly forwarded by the Department of Revenue along with his ACRs.,

integrity certificate and vigilance clearance including a certificate that

no   disciplinary   or   criminal   proceedings   were   either   pending   or

contemplated   against   him.   The   DoPT   has   again   called   the

applications   vide   communication   dated   13.10.2014   for   CVC.   This

advertisement/notification   appeared   in   the   newspapers   and   on   the

Government   website.   Application   dated   21.10.2014   was   again   duly

forwarded. The petition is based mainly on the representations made

by Mr. Anil Kumar Agrawal who represented the grievances of one of

his   client   M/s.   Dharampal     Satyapal   Ltd.,   searched   by   the

Investigation   Wing   (Unit   II)   on   21.1.2011   when   he   was   serving   as

DGIT     (Inv),   Delhi.   He   had   made   allegations   on   5.2.2011   and

18.2.2011 that his client was being harassed in his capacity as DGIT 21 (Investigation).   Answering   respondent   had   quickly   responded   and

brought harmony between the investigating officers and the taxpayer

to facilitate further investigation. Ultimately I.O. made a reference to

the CBI and other agencies. This did not suit the interest of Mr. Anil

Agarwal. He had represented himself as whole­time Director of M/s.

Dharamal   Satyapal   Ltd.   It   was   found   to   be   in   violation   of   the

provisions of Institute of Chartered Accountants of India Act and a

complaint   was   filed   by   the   I.O.   Mr.   Gaurav   Dudeja,   DDIT

(Investigation)   before   the   Institute   of   Chartered   Accountants.   The

institute   found   Mr.   Agrawal  prima   facie  guilty   of   professional

misconduct and initiated disciplinary proceedings as per Rule 9(1) of

the   Chartered   Accountants   (Procedure   of   Investigations   of

Professional   and   other   Misconduct   and   Conduct   of   Cases)   Rules,

2007   and   decided   to   proceed   under   Chapter   V   of   the   Rules.   The

consequential judicial proceedings were still pending. Consequently,

Mr.   Agrawal   in   order   to   arm­twist   the   officers   of   the   income­tax

department and by way of intimidation had been consistently writing

unfounded and baseless complaints against certain targeted officials

of   the   department  levelling  serious   allegations.   In   the   case   of   M/s.

Sanjay Parwal and other connected cases complaints were found to

be baseless and unfounded and the outcome of arm­twisting tactics. 22 27. It   is   further   contended   that   answering   respondent   No.2   had

authorized the filing of a complaint under section 182 IPC against Mr.

Anil Agarwal in his capacity as DGIT (Investigation) with the approval

of   CBDT.   It   was   filed   by   the   Deputy   Director   of   Income   Tax

(Investigation),   Headquarters,   New   Delhi,   before   ACMM,   Tis   Hazari

Court, Delhi.  Copy of complaint has been placed  on  record.  It was

mentioned   in   the   complaint   that   false   complaint   had   been   filed

against   the   officers   to   damage   the   reputation   against   the   highly

placed authorities. The court has taken cognizance of the complaint.

Bailable   warrants   were   issued   on   6.2.2012   as   service   of   summons

was intentionally evaded by Mr. Anil Agarwal. Various witnesses have

been examined in the said case including answering respondent No.2.

The case was still pending. Due to aforesaid reasons, Mr. Anil Kumar

Agarwal   had   been   levelling   wild   allegations   against   the   answering

respondent. Under Secretary has sought the comments of answering

respondent as per O.M. dated 19.9.2014. The answering respondent

has offered comments to the aforesaid effect. Same has been placed

on record. Regarding the visits to Mr. Ranjit Sinha, Director, CBI, it is

contended   that   respondent   No.2   was   heading   the   Investigation

Division of CBDT and in that capacity, he had met the heads of other

investigating   agencies   including   the   then   Director,   CBI.   The

answering respondent met the Director at his residence on a couple of 23 occasions   for   some   official   work.   He   had   also   met   him   and   his

predecessor   in   their   respective   offices   in   North   Block   and   in   CBI

Headquarters several times on official work. This can be verified from

the   registers   of   said   offices.   It   is   contended   that   he   had   never

discussed the cases of Mr. Moin Qureshi or stock guru with the then

Director   of   CBI   or   during   any   such   meeting.   Petitioners   have   not

substantiated by any record their allegations that some cases have

been mutually and improperly settled. The allegations are based on

conjectures and surmises. 28. That   in   the   averments   made   and   the   facts   mentioned   in   the

letter {P­3} written by the member of Common Cause dated 20.5.2015

it   was   nowhere   observed   by   this   Court   that   the   impact   of   the

meetings has to be investigated by the CBI. The aforesaid averment is

wrong and false and afterthought. 29. With respect to the allegations regarding Mr. Moin Qureshi, it is

contended in the counter affidavit filed by respondent No.2 that he

was a taxpayer in Delhi whose cases were investigated by the Delhi

Directorate by conducting search on 15.2.2014. Respondent No.2 was

a Member (Investigation), CBDT at that point of time. In that capacity,

he monitored the cases across the country. The facts of the case and

the   findings   have   been   submitted   to   the   Government   from   time   to 24 time.   All   necessary   actions   including   reference   to   foreign   tax

authorities, references under Mutual Legal Assistance to Hong Kong,

sharing the information with the Enforcement Directorate, DRI, other

relevant departments/agencies, Department of Financial Services and

RBI regarding illegal activities of certain foreign banks, banks were

taken in due time and with good results. The investigation apart from

leading to detection of undisclosed incomes and assets had led to the

filing of prosecution proceedings against certain persons. This Court

in connection with coal mines allotment case  i.e.  W.P. (Civil) No.463

of 2012 directed filing of investigation report relating to involvement

of   certain   persons   and   report   was   filed   on   16.10.2014   in   a   sealed

cover   before   this   Court   on   17.10.2014.   This   Court   had   passed   an

order   on   8.12.2014   in   which   this   Court   has   not   expressed   any

dissatisfaction   regarding   the   nature   of   work   of   the   Investigation

Division   much   less   in   respect   of   the   work   of   the   answering

respondent. No such allegation was ever made in the Court. Thus, the

allegations made in the petition are baseless. 30. With respect to allegations regarding stock guru it is contended

in the counter affidavit of respondent No.2 that stock guru and the

persons involved who were running a Ponzi scheme was investigated

by   the   Deputy   Director   of   Income   Tax   (Investigation)   under   an 25 Additional   Director   of   Investigation   reporting   to   Director   of

Investigation   (Investigation­II,   Delhi)   who   in   turn   reported   to   the

answering   respondent   as   the   then   DGIT   (Investigation)   Delhi.   A

search conducted on 6.1.2011 led to the seizure of Rs.34.69 crores in

cash.  Mr. Anil Agarwal complained that the cash belonged to various

depositors and it should not have been seized. Some depositors filed a

separate case in a court in Delhi.    The seized money was deposited

in court as per the order that was passed. Certain allegations were

made   against   the   IO   of   stock   guru   namely   Yogender   Mittal,   DDIT

(Investigation).   Name   of   the   answering   respondent   did   not   figure

anywhere in the FIR filed by the CBI nor there was any allegation of

any   wrong   doing   against   him.   No   shortcoming   was   found   in   his

actions.   The   CVC,   Department   of   Revenue   and   CBDT   had   also   got

this   issue   enquired   and   apparently  dismissed   the   allegations   made

against   respondent   No.2   as   baseless.   In   "Let   us   Share"   annual

publication  of  CBDT   many cases  with   which   answering  respondent

was associated were reported year after year. During the relevant year

also two cases were reported. 31. With   respect   to   allegations   of   M/s.   Flora   and   Fauna   Housing

Development Pvt. Ltd., it is contended in the counter affidavit filed by

respondent   No.2   that   a   search   was   conducted   by   the   Criminal 26 Investigation   Division   of   the   Income   Tax   Department   on   the   Ponty

Chadda Group on 1.2.2012. The said Division was being headed by

Smt M. Sailoo, DGIT (I & CI) Delhi at that time. They prepared an

Appraisal Report and sent it to the Assessing Officer in the Central

Charge.   While   completing   the   assessment   for   the   Assessment   Year

2012­13 in March 2014, the Assessing Officer found a suggestion in

the Appraisal Report that an addition of an amount of Rs.234 crores

be   made   as   unaccounted   sales   for   the   period   from   01.09.2011   to

22.09.2011 as not acceptable. After a close scrutiny of this Appraisal

Report,   the   Assessing   Officer   found   that   there   is   a   discrepancy   in

treating this amount of  Rs.234  crores  as unaccounted sales  in the

said Appraisal Report. It was identified that it was a mistake that has

been   committed   by   the   accountant   in   posting   cumulative   sales   of

various   depots   in   the   month   of   September   2011,   instead   of   actual

sale in the tally account maintained at head office, which had prima

facie  resulted   in   the   said   discrepancy.     As   per   procedure,   the

Assessing Officer and Additional Commissioner in the Central Charge

who   were   not   convinced   of   the   correctness   of   the   suggestion   of

bringing   the   sum   of   Rs.234   crores   to   tax   as   unaccounted   sales

consulted   the   I&CI   Division,   who   stated   that   the   matter   may   be

decided as per Law after taking into consideration the seized material,

Appraisal   Report,   and   Submissions   of   the   assessee.   On   a 27 consideration of the facts, the Assessing Officer came to a conclusion

that   there   is   no   case   for   an   addition   and   passed   the   Assessment

Order under IT Act with the approval of the Additional Commissioner.

In a meeting held on 28.03.2014, the DCIT (the Assessing Officer), the

Additional Commissioner, Commissioner and the Chief Commissioner

apprised the Member­investigation that they were of the view that no

addition of Rs.234 crores was warranted as there was no evidence to

suggest,   much   less   to   prove   that   unaccounted   sales   to   that   extent

took place in the span of 21 days from 1.9.2011 to 22.9.2011.

       The answering respondent No.2 also agreed with the conclusion

and signed the minutes of the meeting. There was no case for making

an addition. He had not taken any such decision. The decision was

taken by the Assessing Officer and the Additional Commissioner in

whom the power is vested. They had brought it to the notice of the

Commissioner, the  Chief  Commissioner and even  the  then Member

probably due to the huge amount involved and to avoid complaints of

this kind. Mr. Anil Kumar Agarwal has no connection with the said

case. It is not brought on record that the background note submitted

jointly by the DCIT, Additional CIT, CIT and CCIT and the record of

the   discussion   in   the   meeting   which   clearly   mentioned   that   the

answering respondent had only concurred with the prior decision of 28 the officers concerned of not making the addition on that issue. The

record   of   the   discussion   in   the   meeting   had   also   been   placed   on

record and was signed by all present. In this Court false averment

has  been  made in  the  petition.  The allegations were  probed  by the

competent authority and no irregularity whatsoever was found. 32. With   respect   to   the   allegations   regarding   the   handling   of

accounts in the HSBC Bank it is pointed out in the counter affidavit

by respondent No.2 that information regarding certain bank accounts

held by persons of Indian origin in HSBC, Geneva was obtained by

the  Government (CBDT) from French  Government relating to about

628   persons   around   June   2011.   The   CBDT   passed­on   the   said

information to the respective DGsIT (13 in numbers) situated across

the  country. About  148 names  relating to  Delhi were passed on  to

DGIT   (investigation)   Delhi,   which   post   was   held   by   answering

respondent   at   that   time.   Answering   respondent   got   66   searches

conducted relating to these cases (as against a total 140 searchers, in

such cases across the country) (each case may relate to more than

one name). Remaining cases were investigated either through Surveys

u/s 133 A and/or Open Enquiries u/s 131 of the IT Act etc. The best

results were achieved in the Delhi region. As per the procedure that is

laid down, the Investigation Division prepared Appraisal Reports and 29 sent them to the Assessing Officers concerned for further action such

as assessment of income, recovery of tax, levy of penalty, initiation of

prosecution proceedings in appropriate cases, etc. 33. It is further contended that the answering respondent No.2 was

the   only   DGIT   (investigation)   who   submitted   proposals   for   the

approval/   consideration   of   the   CBDT   for  action   (prosecution   under

the IT Act , and action under the Banking Companies Regulation Act ,

etc.) against the concerned foreign bank, its Indian affiliates and the

persons concerned. 34. The   answering   respondent   No.2   also   held   several   video

conferences periodically, that is to say, on 15.11.2012, 01.05.2013,

20.01.2014,   20.06.2014,   etc.   The   answering   respondent   submitted

that   he   was   also   instrumental   in   issuing   several   instructions   and

guidance notes for dealing with this category of cases which was a

new and hitherto not­conceived kind of a work for the Investigating

Officers   and   Assessing   Officers.   The   answering   respondent   further

submitted   that   hundreds   of   references   were   made   through   the

Commissioners concerned, through the Foreign Tax Authorities under

the   provisions   of   Double   Tax   Avoidance   Agreements   (DTAA)/Tax

Information   Exchange   Treaties   as   the   information   received   through

the French Government was incomplete in most cases. Only when it 30 became   clear   that   there   was   no   possibility   of   getting   further

documents/information from the Swiss Tax Authorities due to certain

limitations in the Tax Treaties, the Assessing Officers could go ahead

with making assessments and further actions, including prosecution. 35.   Efforts   made   by   the   answering   respondent   No.2   that   a

methodology called "Consent Waiver Mechanism" was devised due to

which, with the consent of tax­payers, the copies of the Foreign Bank

Accounts   could   be   obtained   from  the   foreign   bank   directly   without

going through the Swiss Tax authorities under the DTAA in about 80

cases,   though   they   could   not   be   obtained   under   DTAA.   This   is   an

innovative and successful action that has been evolved on account of

the contribution of answering respondent. 36. The answering respondent No.2 further submitted that having

regard   to   the   seriousness   of   the   matter,   he   had   devised   a   diligent

procedure   for   analyzing   the   database.   He   also   actively  collaborated

with French Tax Authorities and obtained information in respect of

575 cases which were hitherto not available to the Indian Authorities.

This  analysis  that  he  had  adopted  has  resulted  in  the  detection  of

these new accounts and this method of analysis was new even to the

French Authorities, who initially shared the information with Indian

Authorities. 31 37. The answering respondent No.2 submitted that the assessment

proceedings were conducted by Assessing Officers situated across the

country   and   it   involved   making   references   to   foreign   jurisdictions,

local   inquiries   which   took   considerable   time   and   ultimately   all   the

assessments   have   been   completed   by   the   Assessing   Officers

concerned  within   the  statutory time   allowed   under the Income  Tax

Act .  After that,  the Assessing Officers  started  initiating prosecution

proceedings in appropriate cases. Prosecution proceedings are to be

initiated   by   Assessing   Officers   concerned   across   the   country   with

necessary sanction from the Commissioners of Income Tax concerned

( Sec. 279 of the Income Tax Act). The answering respondent further

submitted that these are quasi­judicial functions to be exercised by

the   empowered   officers   and   the   CBDT   only   provides   necessary

guidance   and   monitors   the   progress.   He   submitted   that   he   has

exercised these functions diligently due to which as on 31­03­2015,

about 121 prosecutions were launched in this category of cases and

some more were in process. He further submitted that he had further

followed   up   the   proposals   earlier   submitted   by   him   as   DGIT

(Investigation)   Delhi   and   certain   actions   were   initiated,   wherever   it

was possible. Under these circumstances and the various efforts put

in by him, including evolving of innovative methods of analysis; it is 32 incorrect   and   absolutely   inappropriate   to   allege   that   he   had   not

initiated prosecution in these cases. 38. This   Court   constituted   the   Special   Investigation   Team   (SIT)

headed   by   Hon’ble   Mr.   Justice   M.B.   Shah   (Retd.)   and   Hon’ble   Mr.

Justice Arijit Pasayat (Retd.). In this context he only begged to submit

and bring to the notice of this Court the following observations of SIT

in its 3rd Report: 39. The  answering  respondent  No.2  is  assisting  SIT   even   after  he

had been appointed CVC. The Chairman of SIT on Black Money has

issued a direction to the following effect : 40. With respect to the allegation of failure to make any headway in

2G scam investigation, it was submitted that answering respondent

No.2 worked as DGIT (Investigation) Delhi from 1.11.2010 to August

2012.   During   this   period   the   case   of   Unitech   Ltd.,   whose

associate/sister   concern   was   granted   telecom   licence   and   few

connected   cases   of   other   telecom   companies   being   investigation   in

other charges were investigated in the Delhi Directorate by DIT (Inv)­I

who functioned under him. All necessary investigations were carried

out and findings were communicated to the Assessing Officers who

took appropriate actions. However other cases of telecom companies

were   within   the   jurisdictions   of   DGsIT   (Inv),   Mumbai,   Chennai,

Bengaluru etc. for the purpose of making presentations and meetings

on behalf of the Income­Tax Department, DGIT (Investigation), Delhi

was   appointed   as   the   Nodal   authority.   They   had   coordinated   with

other DGsIT and other investigating agencies including CBI, ED etc.

and had also made several presentations on the action taken by the

Income Tax Department before the Joint Parliamentary Committee. 41. This   Court   has   never   expressed   dissatisfaction   or   inadequacy

regarding the functioning. 42. With   respect   to   the   allegation   regarding   Radia   Tapes   when

answering   respondent   No.2   had   joined   as   DGIT   (Investigations)   on 34 1.11.2010,   the   surveillance   of   Ms.   Nira   Radia   was   over.   Actionable

issues were identified and necessary action was taken either by the

Delhi   Directorate   or   was   communicated   to   other   Directorates   for

further action. The information was duly shared with the assessing

officers, and other law enforcement authorities such as CBI, ED etc.

The   matter   was   before   this   Court.   The   representations   were

submitted   from   time   to   time.   None   of   the   authorities   found   any

shortcomings   or   inaction   on   his   part   on   this   count.   No   such

allegation   was   made   before   this   Court   against   him   by   the   counsel

appearing in 2G scam case. 43. In   the   counter   affidavit   filed   by   Mr.   T.M.   Bhasin,   respondent

No.3,   in   the   reply   contends   that   the   petition   is   based   upon

suppression and false averments have been made. As such petition

suffers from suppressio veri, suggestio falsi. Respondent No.3 has an

excellent academic record and vast experience and  expertise in the

field   of   banking.   He   is   (i)   an   M.Sc.   Gold   Medalist,   (ii)   LLB,   MBA

Finance from Delhi University, (iii) Topper in the Delhi University in

the   flagship   one­year   programme  viz.  ‘Criminology   and   Forensic

Science’;   and   (iv)  CAIIB.   In   addition   to   the   above   qualifications,   he

had a wide and varied experience in Banking where he joined as a

Probationary   Officer   in   1978   and   in   course   of   time   got   due 35 promotions and reached the level of General Manager in 2003.   He

has got about 8 years of experience as a Whole Time Director in two

Public   Sector   Banks,   comprising   of   Executive   Director   (ED)   from

November   2007   to   March   2010   in   UBI   and   as   Chairman   and

Managing Director of the Indian Bank for the period 2010­2015.  It is

pointed   out   that   at   the   time   of   his   present   selection   he   was   the

longest serving Senior­most Chairman & Managing Director in Public

Sector Banks.  He had also headed the Indian Banks’ Association as a

Chairman and was also Chairman of the Indian Institute of Banking

Personnel Selection and was also President of the Indian Institute of

Banking Finance (IIBF) since 2014.   He had also experience in the

Insurance Sector having worked for nearly five years as a Director on

the Board of United India Insurance Company.   That during his 37

years long Banking career he has an impeccable record of integrity,

sincerity,   honesty,   and   dedication   towards   duty.     Under   his

stewardship   as   CMD   of   Indian   Bank,   the   Bank   had   won   various

National Awards like the following: 44. It was further stated that initially he was given five years tenure

as Chairman & Managing Director of the Indian Bank from 1.4.2010

to 31.3.2015. Being satisfied with the performance of the Bank during

the   said   period,   his   tenure   was   further   extended   by   Appointment

Committee   of   the   Cabinet   vide   Government   notification   dated

27.3.2015  from 1.4.2015   up  to  the   date  of  his  superannuation  i.e.

31.5.2016. At each stage of new appointment/assignment above, all

necessary clearances had been obtained by DFS from the CVC, CBI,

DoPT   and   other   concerned   departments   and   agencies.   Respondent

No.3 had applied for the post of Vigilance Commissioner pursuant to

a notification dated 13.10.2014. 45. With   respect   to   the   allegation   of   tampering   with   APAR   of   Mr.

Malay Mukherjee, respondent No.3 received a letter from Ms. Sumita

Dawara,   Director   of   Financial   Services   dated   4.11.2010   to   send

details   of   Annual   Performance   Appraisal   Reports   (APAR)   of   eligible

GMs for selection as Executive Director by 15.11.2010 on an urgent

basis.   The   respondent   states   that   the   relevant   APAR   of   Mr.   Malay 37 Mukherjee, the then GM, Indian Bank for the period 2009­10, duly

appraised by Mr. V.Ram Gopal (Executive Director) was received on

November 15, 2010, and he, as reviewing authority, concurred with

Average Rating Appraisal done by Mr. V. Ram Gopal and it was sent

to   the   DFS   in   compliance   with   the   letter   dated   4.11.2010.   The

respondent   states   that   Mr.   Malay   Mukherjee   claimed   to   have

submitted his APAR for the year 2009­2010 on 29.07.2010 and by

which time Mr. Sundarrajan, the former CMD had demitted office on

31.3.2010.   As   per   Rule   5(7)   of   All   India   Services   (Performance

Appraisal   Reports)   Rules   2007,   a   retired   official   can   review   the

performance of the appraisee only within one month of the date of his

retirement.   As   previous   CMD   had   demitted   office   as   early   as

31.03.2010, the respondent who was the incumbent CMD had rightly

exercised   his   Reviewing   Authority   powers,   which   was   the   extant

practice too. There is nothing on record of the Bank to substantiate

the   version   of   Mr.   Malay   Mukherjee,   about   the   submission   of   the

APAR for 2009­2010 on 29.07.2010. Even going by averments of Mr.

Malay   Mukherjee,   the   APAR   was   dated   07.07.2010,   whereas   Mr.

Sundarrajan the earlier CMD had demitted office over three months

earlier.  The Vigilance Department of the Indian Bank had during its

internal inquiry found out that the statement of Mr. Malay Mukherjee 38 claiming to have sent the APAR by courier and the proof produced

thereof was unsubstantiated. 46. Nothing on record was found to substantiate the version of Mr.

Malay Mukherjee about the submission of APAR for the period 2009­

2010   on   29.7.2010.   According   to   Mr.   Mukherjee   APAR   was   dated

7.7.2010 whereas Mr. Sundarrajan had demitted the office more than

three months before. The Vigilance Department of Indian Bank had

during its internal inquiry found that the claim of Mr. Mukherjee that

APAR was sent by courier on 29.7.2010 was not substantiated. Said

courier was  sent from Zonal Office  to  Bhopal.  The petitioners  have

relied upon the notings of Shri R. Srikumar, Vigilance Commissioner,

(VC(S)) whereas majority opinion was not for criminal investigation.

Majority opined that the CVC did not ask the CBI to investigate the

matter,   that   the   CVC   may   ask   for   certain   documents   from   the

CVO/DFS so as to ascertain as to the APAR and then to reach a final

conclusion. The CVC had agreed with the VC(G) in this regard. That

there   was   disagreement   with   VC(G)   on   two   occasions   i.e.   on

15.10.2012 and 30.11.2012 and it is the majority view that prevails. 47. Pursuant to the majority opinion steps of follow up were taken

whereafter the CVO and DFS have opined that there is no conclusive

evidence   for   initiating   even   departmental   inquiry   as   that   may   not 39 stand the scrutiny of law as is apparent from OMs. dated 27.8.2012

and 24.12.2012. 48. Respondent No.3 had received OM dated 6.9.2013. For the first

time, he was provided an opportunity to submit his version on the

various   allegations   made   by   Mr.   Malay   Mukherjee.   Answering

respondent   submitted   the   detailed   32   pages   reply   with   130   pages

Annexures   and   it   was   the   normal   practice   to   write   APAR   once   the

previous CMD had retired. Thus, he had not committed any illegality

or irregularity in doing so. 49. Considering the reply submitted by answering respondent No.3

on   26.9.2013,   the   Department   of   Financial   Services   sent   a

Memorandum dated 10.3.2014 as R­III to CVC, clarifying the whole

matter and appraisal of Mr. Mukherjee’s APAR and holding that the

deponent had not violated any guideline and no disciplinary action

was warranted. 50. A   detailed   version   of   Department   of   Financial   Services

summarised  in  the  file  notings  of  CVC  dated  31.3.2014,  28.4.2014

and 6.5.2014, thus, gave finality/closure to the whole issue, has been

accepted   by   the   respondents   in   the   counter   affidavit.   Same   is

extracted hereunder : 40 51. The   CVC   had   also   concurred   with   the   VC   and   made   the

following noting: 52. No punishment was imposed. Only an observation was made to

be   cautious.   The   same   was   advisory   in   nature   and   not   a   penalty.

Thus after receipt of reply matter stood concluded. The allegations of

tampering and forging were found baseless and closed. The factum of

closure   has   been   suppressed   by   the   petitioner.   The   clearance   of

respondent No.3 had been made by the CVC also and CVC has given

the clearance in which it was opined that there was nothing adverse

against the answering respondent. 41 53. Mr.   Prashant   Bhushan,   learned   counsel   appearing   for   the

petitioner submitted that the appointment of respondent Nos.2 and 3

as   per  mandate   of   this  Court  in  Centre for PIL (supra),   respondent

Nos.2 and 3 could not be termed as persons of impeccable integrity,

consequently they could not be said to be fit to hold the office of CVC

and VC in the absence of Lokpal is required to discharge important

functions and to ensure that functionaries versed with integrity in the

interest   of   the   nation   considering   the   higher   responsibilities.

Respondent   Nos.   2   and   3   could   not   be   said   to   be   suitable   for   the

posts   in   question.   The   appointment   of   Mr.   K.V.   Chowdary,   CVC,

respondent No.2 has been assailed. It was urged by learned counsel

that respondent No.2 had connections with Mr. Ranjit Sinha, former

CBI Director. There was quid pro quo between them since respondent

No.2 was given clean chit in stock guru scam and in turn income tax

department in its appraisal report of Mr. Qureshi gave clean chit to

Mr. Ranjit Sinha. Since respondent No.2 was involved in stock guru

scam and gave favourable report to Mr. M.Qureshi the credentials of

respondent   No.2   could   not   be   said   to   be   proper   and   trustworthy.

Respondent No.2 was also involved in M/s. Flora and Fauna Housing

Development   Pvt.   Ltd.   and   in   waiving   off   Rs.234   crores   and   had

influenced   the   decision   making   by   the   assessing   officer   in   illegal

manner.   It   was   also   urged   that   respondent   No.2   did   not   actively 42 investigate the foreign accounts in HSBC Bank, Geneva. There was

failure   of   respondent   No.2   to   make   any   headway   into   the   scam

investigation as no action was taken with respect to Radia Tapes. All

these   facts   have   not   been   examined   by   the   Union   of   India   before

making appointment of CVC as such same is liable to be quashed. 54. With respect to the appointment of VC, Mr. T.M.Bhasin learned

counsel has urged that he was indicted in a detailed inquiry by the

CVC in 2013 for forging and tampering with the appraisal report of

Mr.   Malay   Mukherjee,   General   Manager,   Indian   Bank.   Even   his

criminal   prosecution   was   suggested   by   one   of   the   Vigilance

Commissioners   since   he   had   fabricated   the   APAR   of   Mr.   Malay

Mukherjee,   the   appointment   of   respondent   No.   3   as   Vigilance

Commissioner   was   null   and   void   since   there   was   finding   of   moral

turpitude by the CVC against Mr. T.M.Bhasin which made him unfit

to hold the office of Vigilance Commissioner. 55. It was also urged by learned counsel that in order to ensure a

transparent procedure for an appointment it is necessary the persons

who have been empanelled should be disclosed to the public so that it

can send information in respect of such persons to the Government. 43 56. Mr.   K.K.   Venugopal,   learned   Attorney   General   for   India,

contended   that   there   was   absolutely   nothing   against   Mr.

K.V.Chowdary.   He   has   produced   the   record   which   this   Court   had

directed and contended that on the basis of representations filed by

Mr. Anil Kumar Agrawal and others, were looked into, reports were

called   from   concerned   departments,   viz.,   Department   of

Revenue/MoF/IB/CBI   etc.   Clearances   were   obtained   and   it   was

found that there was no merit in the aforesaid objections which were

raised   in   the   representations   and   the   Committee   has   taken   a

unanimous   decision,   with   respect   to   suitability   vigilance   clearance

has been obtained. It is not open within parameters of judicial review

as laid   down   in Centre   for PIL (supra)   to   make   interference   in   the

appointments made unanimously by the High Power Committee on

due consideration of entire material. It was pointed out that the due

procedure  has  been  adopted   for appointments   of  CVC and  VC  and

has produced the various files for perusal of this Court. He has taken

the Court in extensive details with respect to the procedure adopted

with the help of record. Various other files as to matter in question as

prayed by the Common Cause Society have also been produced. 57. Per   contra,   Mr.   C.S.   Vaidyanathan   learned   senior   counsel

contended on behalf of respondent No.2 that the allegations made in 44 the   petition   are   based   upon   the   incorrect   statement   and   on   an

imaginary   basis   and   are   not   supported   by   any   material,   they   are

based upon assumptions made by the petitioners with respect to the

integrity   of   respondent   No.2.   There   was   absolutely   nothing   against

respondent   No.2.   The   requisite   clearances   had   been   obtained   from

various   departments   and   there   was   nothing   against   in   the   entire

service record of Mr. K.V. Chowdary. His record was  excellent with

rich experience and has been found fit by the High Power Committee

in an objective manner after duly considering the various aforesaid

objections which were raised in the representations filed by Mr. Anil

Kumar Agarwal. He had the personal axe to grind against respondent

No.2.   As   he   was   prosecuted   as   per   the   approval   granted   by

respondent No.2 and disciplinary proceedings had also been initiated

by the Institute of Chartered Accountants, on that basis respondent

No.2 had deposed against him in a criminal case pending in the court

at   Delhi.   Thus,   baseless   and   reckless   allegations   were   repeatedly

made   by   him   at   every   juncture   whenever   respondent   No.2   was

selected for any high office. These allegations were never found to be

proved   and   were   mischievously   raised   with   the   objective   to   malign

him   due   to   personal   vengeance.   The   aspersions   cast   have   been

refuted   and   it   was   asserted   that   no   case   for   interference   in   the

judicial review was made out. 45 58. Mr.   P.S.   Patwalia,   learned   senior   counsel   on   behalf   of

Mr.T.M.Bhasin, VC, contended that firstly no representation was filed

against   Mr.T.M.Bhasin   by   any   of   the   incumbents   still   the   High

Powered Committee was apprised of the said aspect relating to APAR

of   Mr.   Malay   Mukherjee   and   it   was   found   that   the   allegation   of

fabrication   of   APAR   was   not   substantiated.   The   conclusion   was

reached that it was not a case even to hold a departmental inquiry

and it was held and simply a caution was issued. It was also urged

that there was no fabrication of the APAR of Mr.Malay Mukherjee and

he is said to have sent an APAR for 2009­2010 which was signed by

the retired CMD Mr. Sundarrajan on 7.7.2010. He claimed that it was

dispatched by him on 29.7.2010. Said courier with the said number

was dispatched to Bhopal and not to the concerned office. No such

APAR was received by the office. Even otherwise erstwhile CMD had

demitted the office on 31.3.2010 and as per Rule 5(7) of the Rules of

2007, a retired official can review the performance of the appraisee

only within one month from the date of his retirement. Since the CMD

had demitted the office on 31.3.2010 the power could not have been

exercised   by   him   on   7.7.2010.   No   such   APAR   had   been   received.

Such power was rightly exercised by respondent No.3 to write APAR

in the capacity of reviewing officer to make a remark in the APAR. For 46 perjury, the petitioners be prosecuted. Further communication dated

4.11.2010 was required to be sent. It was not a case of fabrication or

forging   the   APAR   at   all   as   suggested   by   the   petitioners.   When   the

various   departments   have   not   found   anything   against   answering

respondent   and   after   respondent   No.   3   had   filed   a   representation

matter was dropped. It could not be said that there was anything to

blame the outstanding record and high integrity of respondent No.3. 59. It   need   not   be   re­emphasized   that   the   Central   Vigilance

Commission is one of the integrity institutions. It was set up in 1964.

After the decision rendered by this Court in Vineet Narain (supra), the

2003   Act   has   been   enacted   and   its   function   is   to   improve   the

vigilance  administration of the  country and to  have  anti­corruption

measures.   Pursuant   to   recommendations   made   by   the   Reviewing

Committee, the report made by it in December 1997 statutory status

was suggested. This Court in Vineet Narain (supra) had observed that

the   given   status   as   recommended   by   the   independent   Reviewing

Committee,   in   the   year   1999   an   Ordinance   was   issued   which   was

replaced   by   the   2003   Act. Section   4 lays   down   constitution   of   the

Committee. The Prime Minister as Chairperson, the Home Minister as

a member and Leader of Opposition in the House of People is also a

member   of   the   said   Committee.   In   case   there   is   no   Leader   of 47 Opposition, the leader of opposition to include the leader of the single

largest   group   in   opposition   and   no   appointment   made   shall   be

invalid,   may   be   by   reason   of   any   vacancy   in   the   Committee.   The

appointment has to be made by the President as provided in section 5. The oath has to be administered. Section 6 deals with removal of

Commissioner and Vigilance Commissioner, contains safeguards. On

a   reference   being   made   by   the   President   on   the   ground   of   proved

misbehavior or incapacity to this Court. On inquiry, it was reported

that CVC or VC be removed on said grounds. The other exigencies

with respect to removal contained in sub­section (3) to section 6 on

being  declared insolvent or convicted of  an offence, engages  during

his term of office in any paid employment outside the duties of his

office or in the opinion of President is unfit by reason of infirmity of

mind   or   body,   has   acquired   such   financial   or   other   interest   as   is

likely to affect his functioning as the CVC or VC. 60. Just   to   exercise   superintendence   over   the   functioning   of   the

Delhi Special Police Establishment with respect to offences under the P.C. Act, 1988 or an offence with which a public servant specified in

sub­section (2) under the Cr.P.C . may be charged with at the trial,

and   may   issue   directions   to   the   CBI,   review   the   progress   of

investigations conducted by CBI,  review the progress of applications 48 pending   with   the   competent   authority   for   sanction   of   prosecution

under the P.C. Act , exercise superintendence over vigilance of various

Ministries etc. It can enquire into an investigation to be made as the

member   of   All   India   Services   etc.   as   provided   in section   8 .   The

Vigilance   Commission   is   an   institution.   Thus,   the   institution’s

competency   is   to   be   ensured   by   the   Government   as   well   as   its

integrity.   Consequently,   the   personal  integrity   of  an   individual  also

becomes relevant as it has correlation with the institution's integrity.

IN RE: APPOINTMENT OF CVC : 61. In   the   backdrop   of   aforesaid   first,   we   consider   the   case   of

Mr.K.V.Chowdary appointed as CVC. The process of appointment that

has been followed reflects that the procedure followed was by issuing

advertisement   in   newspapers.   Wide   publicity   was   given,   various

advertisements throughout India were issued. 132 applications were

received. The Committee headed by Cabinet Secretary shortlisted 12

names   of   CVC   and   10   names   for   V.C.   However,   details   of   all   131

applicants   which   included   work   experience,   ACR   grading   wherever

applicable, vigilance clearance, age criteria, experience in the matter

relating  to  vigilance,  policy making  and   administration  were  placed

before the Committee – HPC. The HPC in its meeting dated 23.5.2015

shortlisted six candidates for the post of CVC and 2 candidates for 49 the   post   of   Vigilance   Commissioner   and   called   for   inputs   on   the

representations. The second meeting of the Committee took place on

1.6.2015. The agenda placed before the Committee contained all the

details including vigilance details of shortlisted applicants. The details

of  Mr.  K.V.Chowdary  were  placed  in  the  file  and  the  details  of  Mr.

T.M.Bhasin were placed. 62. There   were   three   representations/complaints   against   Mr.

K.V.Chowdary. The Prime Minister’s Office had asked for inputs on

the   allegations   so   made   as   to   ascertain   the   correctness   of   facts

contained in the representations. 63. So far as Mr. T.M.Bhasin is concerned no such complaint was

received. However, during vigilance inquiry which was conducted by

respondent No.1, mentioned as to the complaint with regard to Mr.

Malay Mukherjee and said fact was mentioned under the heading of

vigilance clearance. It was mentioned that there was nothing adverse

against   Mr.   Bhasin   on   that   account.   The   Department   of   Financial

Services had while giving its report went into the entire allegations

with regard to Mr. Malay Mukherjee as against Mr. T.M.Bhasin and

cleared him. The CVC also has given clearance to Mr. T.M.Bhasin on

2.2.2015. 50 64. With   respect   to   Mr.   K.V.Chowdary   complaints   were   placed

before the Committee along with the facts and true position regarding

the   allegations.   Note   that   was   placed   before   the   Committee,

mentioned   all   the   allegations   made   in   three   complaints   and

imputation of the factual position received with regard to the same

from various agencies like IB, CBI, Department of Revenue, Ministry

of Finance which was summoned by the PMO so as to place the same

before the HPC. The Committee considered all the allegations against

all   shortlisted   candidates   including   Mr.   K.V.Chowdary   and   Mr.

T.M.Bhasin   and   unanimously   decided   to   appoint   them   as   Chief

Vigilance Commissioner and Vigilance Commissioner respectively. 65. The Union of India has submitted following files for our perusal: (B) Meeting   notice   and   agenda   for   the   first   meeting   of   HPC

 held on 23.5.2015; (C) Meeting   notice   and   agenda   for   the   Selection   Committee

 meeting held on 1.6.2015; (D) Folder G containing IB reports; (E) Folder   (I)   vigilance   clearance   from   the   Department   of

 Financial Services and CVC; 51 (F) Representations   and   letters   submitted   against   the

appointment of respondent Nos.2 and 3; (G) Complaints   and   inputs   on   the   same   placed   before   the

Committee; (H) Annexure E containing the record of CVC, DoPT, DFS in

the case of respondent No.3 regarding his role in APAR of Mr.

Malay Mukherjee; (I) Income   tax   record   regarding   assessment   proceedings   of

M/s. Flora and Fauna Housing and Land Development Pvt. Ltd.

which was associated with Mr. Ponty Chadha; (J) CBI   report   in   Stock   Guru   scam   involving   income   tax

officers. (K) Record pertaining to income tax assessment of M/s. Flora

and Fauna Housing and Land Development for the assessment

year 2012­13 containing following folders/details of which are

furnished in the tabular form : 66. Even   before   the   appointment   of   respondent   No.2   some

representations   were   filed   not   to   appoint   him   as   CVC.   The   main

thrust of the arguments raised by the petitioners' counsel was that

the   appointment   violated   the   institutional   integrity   and   respondent

No.2 could not be said to be a person of impeccable integrity. For this

various reasons have been assigned without meaning to give clean­

chit. We examine them whether  the prima facie  case is made out by 53 the petitioners to make interference. We propose to discuss them in

seriatim: 67. In   the   counter   affidavit   filed   by   respondent   No.2   it   has   been

stated that since he was heading the Investigation Division of CBDT

and   in   that   capacity,   he   had   met   the   heads   of   other   investigating

agencies   on   several   occasions   including   the   Joint   Director,   CBI,

Mr.Ranjit Sinha. Answering respondent met the Director on a couple

of occasions at the residence and in the office of several officers. At no

point of time, the cases of Mr. Moin Qureshi or Stock Guru were ever

discussed with the then Director of CBI Mr. Ranjit Sinha. 68. With   respect   to   the   arguments   this   Court   on   14.5.2015   has

observed as under : 69. No   observations   were   made   by   this   Court   against   respondent

No.2 Mr. K.V. Chowdary and there was no allegation has been made

against Mr. K.V. Chowdary in this Court by any person including the

same counsel for the petitioner. The petitioners have come up with

the   case   that   there   was   meeting   on   two   occasions,   whereas

respondent No.2  has  disclosed  that in  the office there were  several

meetings.   It   was   usual   to   meet   for   Heads   of   various   investigating

agencies   in   connection   with   official   work.   There   being   no   other

material   to   substantiate   aforesaid   aspersions   it   is   simpliciter   an

assumption   that   the   meetings   took   place   with   an   evil   design.   The

highest officers might have discussed the other issues. There is no

other   supporting   material   to   substantiate   the   aforesaid   aspersions.

How the help was extended, in what manner and in Stock Guru scam

there   was   no   allegation   against   respondent   No.2   in   any   manner 56 whatsoever. Thus, it is far­fetched to urge that the aforesaid meetings

were to extend help to each other. 70. With respect to Stock Guru, the investigation was made not by

respondent No.2 but by Deputy Director of Income­tax (Investigation)

and under Additional Director of Investigation, reporting to Director of

Investigation,   Investigation­II,   Delhi,   who   in   turn   reported   to   the

respondent, the then Additional D.G. (IG) Investigation, Delhi. Such

conduct   on   6.2.2012   led   to   a   seizure   of   Rs.34.96   crores   in   cash.

Initially, there was a complaint by Mr. Anil Kumar Agrawal who had

nothing   to   do   with   this   case   that   the   cash   belonged   to   various

depositors  and it should not have  been seized.  On a case filed  the

amount was deposited in court as per the order passed by the court.

Appraisal   report   was   prepared   by   the   I.O.   and   sent   to   assessing

officer who initiated assessment proceedings. However, on 3.6.2013

the CBI started an investigation into the conduct of the then I.O. of

Stock Guru, that is Mr. Yogender Mittal, who was DIG – Investigation.

The name of respondent No.2 did not figure in the First Information

Report filed by the CBI. No wrongdoing, no shortcoming was found by

any authority in the action of respondent No.2 when 13 allegations

were made by Mr. Anil Kumar Agarwal against respondent No.2.   The 57 CVC, Department of Revenue and Department of CBDT got the issues

enquired and allegations were found to be baseless. 71. With   respect   to   the   allegations   made   by   Mr.   Anil   Kumar

Agrawal, it was clear that since he was criminally prosecuted under section   182 IPC   and   disciplinary   proceedings,   had   been   initiated

against him by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India at the

instance   of   respondent   No.2   and   respondent   No.2   had   deposed

against him in the criminal case in the court and once upon time Mr.

Anil Kumar Agrawal had appreciated the gesture of respondent No.2

it was clearly an afterthought for him to level the allegations which

were   without   any   supporting   material   and   had   never   been

substantiated   by   any   material.   In   the   newspaper   report   dated

15.4.2014   name   of   respondent   No.2   was   not   mentioned,   no

supervisory   failure   was   attributed.   Respondent   No.2   was   not

subjected to an investigation by the CBI. Thus, the aforesaid cast of

aspersions   upon   respondent   No.2   by   the   petitioners   has   no   basis.

Same is not substantiated by any material and is simply stated to be

rejected. 72. File No.245/32/2015­AVD.II has been produced which contains

the answers of CBI with respect to various queries made which were

on the basis of the complaint. It has been mentioned that the CBI has 58 investigated the relevant case during the tenure of Mr. Ranjit Sinha in

the   Stock   Guru   scam   on   the   basis   of   a   complaint   received   from

E.O.W.,   Delhi   Police,   relating   to   demand   and   acceptance   of   illegal

gratification  from Mr.  Ulhas  Prabhakar  of  M/s.  Stock  Guru by Mr.

Yogender Mittal (IRS­2006), ADIT to help him in the income­tax case.

The   investigation   did   not   reveal   the   involvement   of   Mr.   K.V.

Chowdary. It was also noted that nothing came to the notice of CBI

against Mr. K.V. Chowdary. 73. Another aspersion on the integrity cast is relating to a search

conducted by criminal investigation division of income­tax on Ponty

Chadha group M/s. Flora and Fauna Housing  Development Pvt. Ltd.

on 1.2.2012. It was urged by learned counsel for the petitioners that

respondent No.2 abused his position to under­assess the income of

the   said   company   by   an   amount   of   Rs.234   crores.   He   issued   a

direction to the assessing officer to dispose of the case in a particular

manner which could not have been done in view of section 119 of the

Income   Tax   Act   and   judgment   of   this   Court.   The   CBDT   had   no

jurisdiction to instruct the assessing officer to dispose of a case in a

particular manner. 74. On behalf of respondent No.2, it was contended that search was

conducted   by   criminal   investigation   division   headed   by   Smt.   M. 59 Saillo, DGIT, Delhi. It was not conducted by respondent No.2. They

prepared an appraisal report and sent it to the assessing officer in the

Central   charge.   While   completing   the   assessment   for   the   relevant

assessment   year.   The   assessing   officer   on   a   suggestion   in   the

appraisal report that addition of an amount of Rs.234 crores be made

as the accounted sale from 1.9.2011 to 22.9.2011 as not acceptable

since  appraisal  report   was   prepared   by a  team  of  aforesaid   DGsIT.

Since discrepancy was found in the appraisal report it was identified

that   it   was   a   mistake   committed   by   the   accountant   in   posting

cumulative sales of various depots in the month of September 2011 in

actual sales. 75. As the matter was to be decided as per law the assessing officer

came   to   the   conclusion   that   there   was   no   case   for   addition   and

passed an order under the Income Tax Act with the approval of the

Additional   Commissioner.   In   a   meeting   held   on   22.3.2014,   DCIT

(Assessing   Officer),   the   Additional   Commissioner   and   Chief

Commissioner apprised respondent No.2, Member (Investigation) that

they were of the view that no addition of Rs.234 crores was warranted

as there was  no evidence to suggest much less to approve that an

accounted sale to that extent took place in the span of 21 days from

1.9.2011 to 22.9.2011. Respondent No.2 agreed with the conclusion 60 of the aforesaid officers. Respondent No.2 had not taken any decision.

The decision was taken by the Assessing Officer and the Additional

Commissioner in whom the power vested. They thought it fit to bring

it   to   the   notice   of   the   Commissioner,   the   Chief   Commissioner   and

even the member involved and to avoid/protect themselves from the

mischievous complaints and since the appraisal report was sent by

DGIT. Mr. Anil Agarwal had circulated this note for the purpose of

making false allegations against respondent No.2 and the note that

was submitted by DCIT, Additional CIT, CIT and CCIT and the record

of   the   discussion   in   the   meeting   had   been   suppressed   which

indicated   that   respondent   No.2   had   concurred   with   the   aforesaid

officials.   The   Record   of   Discussion   in   Minutes   of   the   meeting   with

Member (Inv) on 28.3.2014 by officers of CCIT, Central Region, New

Delhi, contained the following : Folder 2 contains the correspondence of the officer with the superiors

also   Directorate   of   I   &   CI,   mainly   on   the   alleged   issue   of   Rs.234

crores.   Folder   3   contains   background   note   for   the   meeting   of   the

officers   on   28.3.2014   and   to   apprise   him   of   the   decision   taken   by

Assessing   Officer   for   not   making   the   addition   of   alleged   issue   of

Rs.234   crores.   Folder   4   contains   notices   issued   by   the   Assessing

Officer   to   the   assessee,   replies   etc.   Approved   assessment   order

submitted   by   A.O.   to   Additional   Commissioner   for   his   approval.

Approval   was   given   by   the   Additional   Commissioner.   Copies   of   the

assessment orders and explanatory briefs of record given by CBDT. In

Folder 7 the aforesaid stand is fully substantiated by the document

that has been placed on record. 77. It is apparent that the assessing officer has taken a decision for

not   making   addition   and   he   wanted   confirmation   and   the   senior

officers   considered   the   matter   in   detail   and   then   background   note

was prepared and record of discussion has been placed on record and

that was agreed to by respondent No.2. He has not issued a direction

as suggested on behalf of the petitioners rather approval was sought

by the assessing officer as the stake was high and appraisal report

was   prepared   by   the   earlier   DGIT   level   and   she   had   considered   it 62 appropriate to seek the approval so as to allay the apprehension of

compliance in future. Thus the facts make it clear that no impropriety

has   been   committed   by   respondent   No.2   in   the   aforesaid   factual

background and the background on record and he has not directed

the   assessing   officer   to   proceed   in   a   particular   manner   but   rather

various higher authorities had agreed with the assessing officer and

thereafter had put up the matter for discussion with the respondent

who had also agreed with them. In the facts of the case, we find that

allegation raised with respect to favour being meted out to M/s. Flora

and Fauna Housing & Land Development (P) Ltd. at the instance of

respondent   No.2   has   been   considered   by   HSBC   and   not   at   all

substantiated from the material on record. As a matter of fact, full

facts have not been placed on record either by Mr. Anil Agrawal or

otherwise   to   make   the   position   clear.   It   is   apparent   that   Mr.   Anil

Agrawal was making reckless allegations and was guilty of suppresio

veri  and  suggestio   falsi.   It   is   apparent   that   no   direction   had   been

issued   by   respondent   No.2   for   not   making   the   addition.   The   said

allegation levelled by Mr. Anil Agrawal had been looked into by the

concerned authorities and no irregularity whatsoever was found. 78. The next aspersion cast upon respondent No.2 is with respect to

the failure of respondent No.2 to take appropriate action against the 63 foreign   bank   account   holders   in   HSBC   Bank,   Geneva   for   almost   3

years. It was urged that no prompt action was taken by respondent

No.2. Since the formation of SIT the income tax department had not

filed even a single prosecution against HSBC account holders. It was

contended by learned counsel on behalf of respondent No.2 that the

information regarding bank accounts held by the persons of Indian

origin   in   HSBC,   Geneva   was   obtained   by   the   Government   (CBDT)

from   French   Government   relating   to   approximately   628   persons

around June 2011. Out of them, 148 names relating to Delhi were

passed on to DGIT, Investigation, Delhi, the post held by respondent

No.2.   66  searches   were   conducted   in   Delhi  under  respondent  No.2

whereas total 140 searches were undertaken across the country. The

best   results   were   achieved   by   the   Delhi   Region.   The   Investigation

Division prepared appraisal reports and sent them to their assessing

officers for further action such as assessment of income, recovery of

tax,   levy   of   penalty,   initiation   of   prosecution   proceedings   in

appropriate cases. It was also pointed out that respondent No.2 was

the   only   DGIT   (Investigation)   who   submitted   the   proposal   for   the

prosecution   against   the   concerned   foreign   banks   and   its   Indian

affiliates,   and   persons   concerned.   It   was   also   contended   that   yet

respondent   No.2   had   closely   monitored   the   investigation   and

functions   of   other   ITOs.,   followed   up   the   cases   by   holding   weekly 64 meetings, guidance, suggestions, interaction. Video conferencing were

also held. The information received from the French Government was

incomplete in most of the cases. When it became clear that there was

no possibility of getting further information the assessing officer could

go ahead with making assessment including the prosecution. Consent

waiver   mechanism   was   devised   by   the   respondent   which   was   an

innovative   action.   He   had   obtained   information   in   respect   of   575

cases   which   were   hitherto   not   available   to   Indian   authorities.   The

judicial functions were to be exercised by the entire officers and the

CBDT   only   provides   the   necessary   guidance   and   monitors   the

progress. About 121 prosecutions were launched by 31.3.2015 and

some more were in progress when the answering respondent left. The

SIT had made the following observations with respect to the action

taken by respondent No.2: 79. It was also pointed out that vide letter dated 24.7.2015 R­2/22,

he was requested to assist the SIT even after taking charge of the post

of CVC. 80. Considering the aforesaid submissions raised on behalf of the

petitioner that during the tenure of Mr. K.V.Chowdary nothing was

substantially   done   with   respect   to   HSBC   Bank   is   not   at   all

substantiated.   Rather   his   functioning   has   been   appreciated   by   the

SIT as mentioned above and his assistance has been sought even by

the Chief Vigilance Commissioner. 81. Next   submission   raised   by   learned   counsel   appearing   for   the

petitioner is with respect to the failure to make any headway, as he

failed to take action in the income­tax cases, in the 2G scam. Unlike

the CBI or Enforcement Directorate filed several charge­sheets. The

averment in this regard in the petition is in the passing form and is

vague. Apart from that, no specific instance has been given in which

case there was a failure on the part of respondent No.2. That apart

respondent   No.2   had   made   it   clear   that   during   the   tenure   from 66 1.11.2010 to August 2012 he had taken up the case of Unitech Ltd.

whose associates and their sister concern had been granted licences

and few other cases of telecom company were investigated and few

connected cases of telecom companies were also under investigation

for   other   charges.   All   necessary   investigation   was   carried   out   and

aforesaid findings were communicated in due time to the Assessing

Officer   who   took   appropriate   action.   Cases   of   other   telecom

companies   under   the   jurisdiction   of   DGIT,   Bombay,   Chennai,

Bengaluru etc. Respondent No.2 as a nodal agency coordinated and

made several representations as to the action taken by the income­

tax department before a Joint Parliamentary Committee. It could not

be pointed out in which particular matter respondent No.2 was found

lacking. Thus the submission raised on behalf of the petitioners is too

tenuous to be accepted. It was never pointed out to this Court that

there was laxity on the part of respondent No.2 when the aforesaid

matter C.A. No.10660/2010 was listed in this Court. 82. The   last   aspersion   cast   is   with   respect   to   Radia   Tapes,   the

inaction   of   respondent   No.2   of   not   taking   action   against   the

concerned   incumbents.   Details   of   action   which   were   required   and

could have been taken have not been given in the petition thus no

specific  averment  has  been  made   in   this  regard  by the   petitioners. 67 When we consider the reply it is apparent that respondent No.2 was

DGIT   Investigation   and   he   joined   on   1.11.2010   by   which   time

surveillance of Ms. Nira Radia was over and some intercepts relating

to such surveillance were in public domain due to leakage probably in

May­June, 2010. When he had taken over as DGIT (Investigation) in

November   2010   actionable   issues   were   identified   and   necessary

action   was   taken   either   by   the   Delhi   Directorate   or   was

communicated to the Directorates for further action. The information

was duly shared with the Assessing Officers and other law enforcing

agencies such as CBI, ED etc. The matter was before this Court in

Public Interest Litigation (PIL). None of the authorities ever found any

shortcoming or inaction on the part of respondent No.2 on this count.

It   was   also   not   urged   before   the   Court   by   aforesaid   PIL   of   2010

whenever it was listed. 83. Apart   from   that,   it   has   also   been   pointed   out   by   respondent

No.2   that   in   the   petition   with   respect   to   APAR   of   respondent   No.2

false averments have been made, that adverse remarks were made by

three senior officers of CBDT. The allegation has been termed to be

baseless and unfounded and misleading. In the 36 years of service,

not even a single remark has been made in the APAR. All the remarks

had   been   based   on   record   as   in   the   form   of   compendium   R­2/1. 68 There is no adverse remark in them. Thus the petition suffers from

wrong averments also. Thus, it is apparent that against respondent

No.2 unsubstantiated allegations have been made. 84. This  Court  in  Centre for PIL (supra)  held  while   examining the

appointment of Mr. P.J. Thomas. The CVC had observed with respect

to the parameters of judicial review in such matters of appointment

thus: 85. That   judicial   determination   is   confined   to   the   integrity   of   the

decision   making   process   by   the   HPC.   That   the   difference   between 70 judicial and merit review, the legality of decision­making process can

also   be   looked   into.   If   the   decision   is   influenced   by   extraneous

considerations or selection is made in breach of the statute or rules,

it can be set aside. The Government is not accountable to the courts

for the choice made but the Government is accountable to the courts

in respect of the lawfulness/legality of its decisions. 86. In the case of Mr. P.J.Thomas, CVC, it was a binding criminal

proceeding under the P.C. Act and between the period of 2001 and

2004 the DoPT had recommended the disciplinary proceeding against

Mr.   P.J.Thomas   in   respect   of   Palmolein   case. The   pendency   of   the

case before the Special Judge under the P.C. The act was not taken

into consideration as well as the observations made by this Court in K.Karunakaran v. State of Kerala & Anr. (2000) 3 SCC 761 in which

an   FIR   against   Mr.   Karunakaran   and   others   including   that   of   Mr.

Thomas was held not to be the result of mala fides or actuated by

extraneous considerations. This Court observed that the menace of

corruption could not be permitted to be hidden under the carpet of

legal technicalities and the probe conducted has to be determined in

accordance   with   law.   In   the   aforesaid   background,   the

recommendation made by the HPC was held to be non­est in law. 71 87. Three   representations/complaints   were   received   against   Mr.

K.V.Chowdary. The PMO had asked for details of the allegations so as

to ascertain the facts contained in the representations filed against

Mr.Chowdary.   Complaints   of   Mr.Chowdary   were   placed   before   the

Committee. Factual inputs on opinion were received with respect to

the various aspects in representation from various agencies like CBI,

Information Bureau, Department of Revenue, Ministry of Finance and

were   placed   before   the   HPC   which   considered   all   the   allegations

against all shortlisted candidates. No complaint was received against

Mr.   T.M.Bhasin.   Requisite   clearances   were   given   by   the   IB   with

respect to Mr. K.V.Chowdary and Mr. T.M.Bhasin. With respect to the

allegations,   separate   inputs   were   obtained   and   placed   before   the

Committee. There was nothing adverse found. On following issues the comments were called : 88. Mr. Chowdary's name figured in the list of visitors who visited

his official residence. The inputs on the aforesaid aspects were called

from   the   IB   and   CBI.   No   adverse   comment   was   made.   Apart   from

that, it was pointed out that the matter was sub judice in this Court

regarding   Mr.   Ranjit   Sinha.   However   as   already   discussed,   no

insinuation could be cast upon Mr. Chowdary due to aforesaid visits. 72 POINT NO. (II) 89. With   respect   to   Stock   Guru   scam,   the   CBI   reported   that

investigation did not reveal the involvement of Mr. Chowdary.

POINT NO. (III) 90. With regard to issue No.(iii), investigation of hawala dealer Mr.

Moin Qureshi, the comments of Department of Revenue, Ministry of

Finance were obtained as well as inputs from IB and CBI. The IB has

given  input that Mr. Moin Qureshi’s link with Mr. Chowdary  could

not be  confirmed. The  Department  of  Revenue,  Ministry of Finance

opined that the allegations made against Mr. Chowdary were found

absolutely   misplaced.   The   petition   of   Mr.   Qureshi   filed   before   the

Settlement Commission was opposed by the Income Tax Department.

As a result, the same was dismissed. Even before completion of the

assessment, the prosecution under section 277 of IT Act and sections

181 , 177 , 193 , 196 , 120B read with section 23 were launched against

Mr. Qureshi. POINT NO. (IV) 91. With   respect   to   Radia   tapes,   the   Department   of   Revenue,

Ministry   of   Finance   opined   that   the   opinion   of   the   authorities   has

found   no   fault   with   Mr.   Chowdary.   Allegations   against   him   were 73 factually incorrect and  baseless. IB has opined that the  allegations

could not be established in the course of the discreet inquiry. The CBI

also found nothing adverse against Mr. Chowdary in 2G scam cases

or  Radia  tapes   consequent  upon   the   order  dated   21.2.2013   of   this

Court. POINT NO.(V) 92. The allegation that the In­charge of the 2G scam investigation

Mr. Chowdary failed to make any headway in the case, it was opined

by the Department of Revenue, Ministry of Finance that none of the

authorities  i.e.  Supreme Court, Central Vigilance Commission, Joint

Parliamentary  Committee,  Public  Accounts  Committee  before   whom

the   DGIT   presented   periodical   reports,   found   any   shortcoming   or

deficiencies.   Mr.   Chowdary,   who   was   working   as   DGIT   (Inv.),   took

necessary   steps   to   have   2G   cases   falling   under   his   jurisdiction

investigated   expeditiously  and   properly.   The  charges  levelled   in  the

complaint were found baseless and incorrect. IB input was that black

money cases came to a fast track after the constitution of SIT. The

CBI did not report anything against Mr. Chowdary. POINT NO. (VI) 74 93. As to  the  allegation  of  HSBC account holders investigation, it

was pointed out that Mr. Chowdary had monitored investigation in

445   cases   of   HSBC   foreign   accounts   and   the   best   results   were

achieved   in   Delhi   cases   as   compared   to   other   Directorates.   Mr.

Chowdary pointed out illegal banking activities in HSBC, Geneva, and

proposed   prosecution   of   HSBC   Geneva.   He   closely   monitored   and

followed up these cases. The allegation that no progress was made

was found wrong. When SIT was formed in May­June, 2014 by that

time investigation in most of the cases was already at the advanced

stage.   IB   had   given   the   input   in   this   regard   that   though   much

progress was not made earlier but after the constitution of SIT, it was

on fast track. POINT NO. (VII) 94. With respect to adverse remarks in the performance appraisal

reports by three senior officers of CBDT, the Department of Revenue

has   forwarded   a   summary   of   annual   CRs.   from   November   1978   to

February 2014 which was placed on record and that nothing adverse

was found. IB also made the input that the allegation could not be

corroborated in the course of discreet inquiries.

POINT NO. (VIII) 75 95. Mr.   Chowdary   wrongfully   reduced   the   undeclared   wealth   of

M/s. Flora and Fauna Housing Development Pvt. Ltd., a company of

Mr. Ponty Chadha by over Rs.200 crores. The allegations were found

to be absolutely baseless by the Department of Revenue, Ministry of

Finance. IB had also placed its inputs regarding the allegation and

adoption of the procedure. It was, however, opined that he enjoyed

good   personal   and   professional   image.   Nothing   adverse   against   his

character or integrity has come to notice. The allegation about M/s.

Flora and Fauna Housing Development Pvt. Ltd., was mentioned but

no adverse comment was made. POINT NO. (IX) 96. As   per   the   complaint   received   from   Anil   Kumar   Agrawal   of

forming a nexus between the income tax officers and trying to conceal

the   undisclosed   income   of   relative   of   a   Minister,   Department   of

Revenue   opined   that   it   was   a   motivated   complaint   and   the

complainant did not substantiate it despite three reminders hence it

was closed. POINT NO.X 97. As to the complaint by Anil Kumar Agrawal regarding corruption

charges   in   connection   with   income   tax   raids   on   M/s.   Raj   Mahal 76 Jewellers   and   protection   to   Mr.   Gaurav   Dudeja,   DDIT   (Inv.),   the

complaint was closed and it was not found substantiated.

POINT NO.XI 98. Regarding complaint by Mr. H.R.V. Rao forwarded by one of the

Members   of   Parliament   against   Mr.   Chowdary,   parked   crores   in

amassing properties in his families/relatives names, the Department

of Revenue, Ministry of Finance opined that several verification letters

were sent to the complainant and concerned Member of Parliament

no   response   was   received   from   them.   Thus,   the   complaint   was

ultimately closed as it was not substantiated. POINT NO.XII 99. The complaint was received from CVC with respect to interception

of Rs.12.30 crores during U.P. elections and the differences between

Member   (Investigation)   and   Member   (L&C).   The   Department   of

Revenue,   Ministry   of   Finance   opined   that   the   allegations   were

examined thoroughly. The allegations made were baseless. There was

no merit or substance in the complaint. The matter was referred to

CVC   for   closure   with   the   approval   of   Finance   Minister.   CVC   had

advised closure of the complaint on 14.7.2014. POINT NO. XIII 77 100. As   to   the   complaint   from   Advocate,   R.K.   Bansal   to   CVC   vide

office   memorandum   dated   7.10.2013  inter   alia  referring   to   Stock

Guru scam and senior officers of ITO, Investigation Wing, regarding

misappropriation of Rs.42­44 crores and that Mr. Chowdary did not

share the information with the investigating agencies. 101. The comments by Department of Revenue Ministry of Finance

disclosed that the CBI had lodged the FIR in the matter, the name of

Mr.   Chowdary   did   not   appear   in   the   FIR   nor   any   communication

received from the CBI. The findings were referred to the CVC with the

recommendation to  close the complaint against Mr.  Chowdary with

the   approval   of   Finance   Minister.   CVC   advised   closure   of   the

complaint. IB also opined there was no formal investigation against

Mr. Chowdary. 102. In   reference   to   complaint   about   Mr.   Anil   Kumar   Agrawal

regarding   administrative   misuse   and   involving   income   tax   raids

conducted at M/s. Iryan Coal during April 2012, the Department of

Revenue pointed out that there was no infirmity in the search and

seizure operations. 78 103. The allegation of nexus with the office of Investigation Wing was

found  baseless.  The  matter  was  referred   to  CVC.  CVC had  advised

closure of the complaint. 104. Thus, each and every aspect and information had been placed

before the High Power Committee when the decision was taken. Thus,

the integrity of the decision­making process has not impinged in this

case   in   any   manner   whatsoever.   Neither   decision   was   taken   to

appoint respondent No.2 as CVC can be said to be suffering from any

illegality. The decision cannot be said to be influenced by extraneous

considerations and the choice made of Mr. Chowdary cannot be said

to be such which is amenable for interference by the court in judicial

review. IN RE: APPOINTMENT OF RESPONDENT NO.3  : 105. With   respect   to   the   appointment   of   respondent   No.3,   Mr.

T.M.Bhasin as Vigilance Commissioner, learned counsel appearing for

the   petitioner   has   urged   that   since   his   criminal   prosecution   was

ordered,   ultimately   it   was   not   fructified.   However,   on   the

administrative   side,   he   was   severely  indicted   for  fabricating/forging

the   APAR   of   Mr.   Malay   Mukherjee,   General   Manager   and   was

cautioned.   Thus,   in   view   of   the   order   passed   in   the   serious 79 background,   it   could   not   be   said   that   person   who   was   accused   of

fabricating/forging APAR was a person of impeccable integrity fit to

hold the office of Vigilance Commissioner of an integrity institution of

this country. 106. The backdrop facts of the aforesaid order of caution unfold that

Mr. Malay Mukherjee was General Manager of Indian Bank. His APAR

for 2009­2010 was required to be written. He had not served under

respondent   No.3   Mr.T.M.Bhasin.   Mr.T.M.Bhasin   was   not   reporting

officer but was reviewing authority in the capacity of CMD of Indian

Bank. The predecessor CMD had admittedly retired on 31.3.2010 and

as provided in Rule 7 of All India Services Performance and Appraisal

Report, Rules, 2007, retired official could review the performance of

appraisee   within   one   month   from   the   date   of   his   retirement.   Mr.

Sundarrajan, former CMD is said to have signed APAR on 7.7.2010

after more than three months which he could not have done. Be that

as it may. Even if he did it unauthorizedly or irregularly such APAR

was not found on an inquiry conducted by the Vigilance Department

of   the   office.   The   courier   sent   by   Mr.   Malay   Mukherjee   from   zonal

office was sent to Bhopal related to some other matter and was not

received by the Head Office. Even if we ignore the aforesaid aspect

question arises whether Mr. T.M.Bhasin has fabricated or forged the 80 APAR of Mr. Malay Mukharjee from excellent to average. Whether it

was mentioned to be outstanding by Mr.Sundarrajan. 107. Letter   dated   4.11.2011   was   issued   by   the   Department   of

Financial Services to send the APAR of eligible General Managers for

selection as Executive Director by 15.11.2010 on urgent basis. It was

received on 10.11.2010 by respondent No.3. The relevant APAR of Mr.

Malay Mukherji duly apprised by Mr. Ram Gopal, Executive Director

was received on 15.11.2010. Respondent No.3 as reviewing authority

concurred   with   the   average   grading   done   by   Mr.   V.Ram   Gopal,

Executive Director. It was sent to the F.S. in compliance. 108. Since   Mr.   Malay   Mukherjee   claimed   that   he   had   sent   APAR

dated  7.7.2010   for  the  period   2009­10   signed   by Mr.  Sundarrajan,

former   CMD   on   29.7.2010   and   the   matter   travelled   to   the   Central

Vigilance Commission. One of the members out of the three opined

that   the   CBI   may   be   asked   for   a   criminal   investigation   into   the

matter. However, the majority view was not to investigate the matter

on criminal side but only the Chief Vigilance Commissioner may call

for   certain   documents/information   from   the   Chief   Vigilance

Officer/DFS to ascertain and come to the final conclusion. The view of

CVC and VC prevailed being the majority view as per section 9(4) of

the Act of 2003. Thus, nothing could be made out by the petitioners 81 on   the   basis   of   the   observations   of   VC(S).   Later   on,   follow   up   was

taken in view of the majority view. The Chief Vigilance Commissioner

and the Department of Financial Services stated that there was no

conclusive evidence against Mr. Ram Gopal and respondent No.3 even

to hold a regular departmental inquiry. 109. Later on, memorandum dated 6.9.2013 was received from the

DFS seeking his clarification on the subject matter. Respondent No.3

submitted   a   written   explanation   with   annexures   running   in   162

pages   and   pointed   out   that   in   the   past   there   were   14   such   cases

when succeeding CMDs. had submitted APAR when reviewing APAR

when   officers   have   not   worked   under   him.   Thus   no   action   against

him was warranted. He had not violated any guidelines. The notings

of   Chief   Vigilance   Commissioner   dated   31.3.2014,   28.4.2014   and

6.5.2014 are extracted hereunder :