This appeal filed by the Revenue is against the order of the
Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals)-NFAC, Delhi [hereinafter
referred to as Ld. 'CIT(A)'] passed u/s 250 of the Income Tax Act, 1961
(hereinafter referred to as 'the Act') for AY 2015-16 dated 18.11.2024. 2. The Revenue is in appeal before the Tribunal raising the following
grounds of appeal: 3.1(h) of the CBDT's Circular No.5 of 2024. 12. That the appellant craves leave to add to and/or alter, amend, modify
 or rescind the grounds hereinabove before or at the time of hearting of this
 appeal." 3. Brief facts of the case are that the assessee is a company and the
return of income was filed for the AY 2015-16 declaring 'NIL' income. As
per information available with the Assessing Officer (hereinafter referred
to as Ld. 'AO'), the assessee had entered into equity & currency
 Page | 3
 ITA No.: 134/KOL/2025
 Assessment Year: 2015-16
 Kalawati Investments & Trading P. Ltd. derivative transaction thereby allegedly generating fictitious loss as well
as ingenuine profit totalling to ₹79,04,700/- through Concord Vinimay
Pvt. Ltd. & Bahubali Forex Pvt. Ltd., the share brokers, under the
platform of BSE & USE. On the basis of this information, the case was
reopened u/s 147 of the Act and a notice was issued to the assessee u/s 148 of the Act. In response to notice u/s 148 of the Act, the assessee
once again filed the return of income showing 'NIL' income.
Subsequently, an assessment order u/s 144 read with section 147 of
the Act was passed by the Ld. AO thereby making an addition of
₹79,04,700/- on account of unexplained investment u/s 69 of the Act.
Aggrieved with the assessment order, the assessee filed an appeal before
the Ld. CIT(A) who partly allowed the appeal of the assessee by deleting
the addition of ₹79,04,700/- made by the Ld. AO on account of
unexplained investment u/s 69 of the Act and held as under: In view of these contentions, the appellant company claimed that since the
transactions were duly recorded in the books of accounts and explained to the
AO during the assessment proceedings, there was no need of addition on
account of unexplained investment u/s 69 of the Act. Page | 5
 ITA No.: 134/KOL/2025
 Assessment Year: 2015-16
 Kalawati Investments & Trading P. Ltd. 5.4. The AO made addition under section 69 of the Act amounting to
Rs.79,04,700/- on account of unexplained investment under section 69 of the
Act being fictitious transactions. The assessee during the FY 2014-15 relevant to the FY 2015-16 had
earned profit of Rs.44,32,321/- & incurred loss of Rs.34,76,063/-. Thus net
profit of the assessee was only Rs.9,56,258/-. However the AO made addition
of entire profit & loss amounting to Rs.79,04,700/-. Copies of relevant bank
statements showing the amount credited are enclosed in paper Book submitted
by the assessee. During the course of assessment proceedings, the AO required
the assessee to prove the genuineness of F&O transactions & Currency
derivatives transactions. The assessee filed various details in support of its
claim like bank account statements, trading summary, contract notes & ledger
etc. But the AO rejected relying on report of investigation wing and treated these
transactions as unexplained investment under section 69 of the Act. 5.5. The assessee referred to the order of the AO and stated that the AO did
not accept the evidences filed by the assessee in support of its claim and by
relying on the general study report of the investigating wing rejected the claim
and held that the entire transactions undertaken by the assessee were fictitious
transactions entered for the purpose of evasion of tax and consequently
assessed the impugned transactions as an unexplained investment under section 69 of the Act. The AO has referred to the findings in the general study
report of the Investigation Wing of Mumbai, wherein it laid down the purported
modus operandi of converting unaccounted cash of the beneficiary by routing it
through few layers of paper companies by the operator and providing
accommodation entry to the beneficiaries in the form of bogus gain/loss etc. as
per the requirement of the beneficiary. The appellant argued that the findings of the Investigation Wing are
general in nature and it is basically a study report and not known which cases
are investigated. As understood from the assessment order the assessee's
name or its transactions were not referred in such reports and the AO has not
established any link between that report and assessee's transactions. This is
also fatal as reliance on such investigation report, without confronting the
assessee with the same, renders the assessment bad in law. The Investigation
in assessee's case arch did not reveal any connection with the findings or
evidences as referred to in such reports. The assessee stated that the statements of Shri. Prakash Kumar relied
upon by the AO does not establish that the assessee has paid any unaccounted
money to M/s Concord Vinimay Pvt Limited & M/s Bahubali Forex Private
Limited. None of the replies to the question posed indicate that they received
any unaccounted money from the assessee or that they received or utilized the
unaccounted money received from the assessee with reference to the impugned
 Page | 6
 ITA No.: 134/KOL/2025
 Assessment Year: 2015-16
 Kalawati Investments & Trading P. Ltd. transactions. It is also not established that they had any arrangement or
dealings or relation with the assessee leave apart the alleged accommodation
or exit provided who has not stated any dealing with them against the principles
of natural justice. The assessee argued that it had neither taken exit nor
accommodation entries from any party for such transactions, nor has any
evidence provided by AO nor statements of such persons revealed any dealing
with the assessee. All transactions done by the assessee are performed on
registered stock exchange through banking channel in the normal course. It was
contended further that there is no evidence that implicate the assessee to have
entered into any arrangement with any operators/exit providers or involvement
of unaccounted money. The assessee took strong objections to AO linking it or
its transactions with so called alleged exit providers and accommodation entry
providers without any evidence or involvement mentioned in such investigation
reports and statements of such persons. To prove the genuineness of the transactions, the assessee provided all
the supporting evidences like, ITR, contract notes, bank statement highlighting
the transactions, etc. However, the AO made addition under section 69 of the
Act by ignoring all the facts and evidences and without providing any proof of
assessee's involvement in the accommodation entry with the help of entry
providers. The provision of section 69 of the Act is reproduced below for the ease of
reference: The above section indicates that in order to be an income, there must be
fulfillment of two conditions since the word "and" has been used in the section.
The investments made in the current year must not be recorded in the books of
accounts AND the explanation not offered or not satisfactorily offered. The word
'explanation' indicates that the opportunity of being heard must be given to the
assessee to prove the nature and source of investments. The use of word 'may'
and absence of the word 'shall' in the section indicates that the Assessing
Officer has discretion to treat the particular investment as the income of the
investor-assessee depending of the facts and circumstances of each case at a
particular situation of time. Section 69 is introduced to cover the instances
where the assessee has made investments in the financial year immediately
preceding the assessment year and such investments are not recorded in the
 Page | 7
 ITA No.: 134/KOL/2025
 Assessment Year: 2015-16
 Kalawati Investments & Trading P. Ltd. books of account, if any, which are maintained by him for any source of income,
and also the assessee offers no explanation about the nature and source of the
investments or the explanation offered by him is, in the opinion of the Assessing
Officer is not satisfactory, the value of the investments may be deemed to be
the income of the assessee of such financial year. Thus, for applying the
provisions of section 69 of the Act, the Assessing Officer should first come to a
finding that the assessee has made investments and the same are not recorded
in the books of account and thereafter, AO can call the assessee for an
explanation from about the nature and source of the investments and in case
he finds that the assessee is unable to furnish the explanation or the
explanation offered by him is not satisfactory, the assessing officer can treat
the value of the investments to be the income of the assessee of the financial
year in which he has made the investments. To prove the entry of investment in books of accounts & source of such
investment, the assessee submitted supporting documentary evidences. This
adds to the bonafide of the assessee's transactions. In view of the above facts
and circumstances of the case, I have to go through the expression of "nature
and source" and have to understand the requirement of identification of the
source and its genuineness. Sec. 69 of the Act places the burden of proof on the
assessee, to explain the nature & source of any investment recorded in books
of accounts. Hence when an assessee gives evidences of the transactions to
prove the genuineness, the assessee is said to have discharged his initial
burden. In view of the above, I am of the view that the assessee has explained
and submitted evidences to prove nature and source of the investment made
and also furnished all evidences in support of the genuineness of the
transactions. The AO has not pointed out any deficiency in the documents or
inherent weakness in the explanation or doubted genuineness of the
transactions for want of any evidence. The AO did not produce any evidence
whatsoever to prove the allegation that unaccounted money changed hands
between the assessee and/or any other person including the alleged entry
provider nor proved that the assessee has taken any type of accommodation
entry from any person or so called entry providers to introduce unaccounted
money into books by way of the impugned transactions. As the transactions
were proved genuine by third party evidences like bank account statement, and
in the absence of any material to prove cash changing hands in the transaction,
the addition made by the AO under section 69 of the Act, by treating both profit
as well as loss from the transactions as unexplained, fictitious, non-genuine is
baseless. The addition under section 69 of the Act was made merely on the
basis of suspicion, presumptions and probability of preponderance without any
direct evidence to prove the transactions as non-genuine or fictitious or
demonstrating appellant's involvement in any kind of accommodation entries.
The findings of investigation & modus operandi in other cases narrated by the
AO nowhere prove any connection with the assessee nor the assessee's
 Page | 8
 ITA No.: 134/KOL/2025
 Assessment Year: 2015-16
 Kalawati Investments & Trading P. Ltd. involvement or connection or collusion with the entry providers, accommodation
providers etc. For making the addition, it is necessary to bring on record
evidence to establish ingenuity in transactions or any connection of the
assessee or its transaction with any of the alleged parties. The assessee has
discharged its onus by establishing the nature & source of investment and
genuineness of the transactions. 5.6. It is noted that the AO rejected all the evidences filed by the assessee
by referring to 'Modus Operandi" of persons for earning accommodation entries.
All these observations are general in nature and are applied across the board
to all including the assessee. Specific evidences produced by the assessee were
not controverted by the AO. The addition is made based on a general report from
the investigation wing. The issue for consideration is whether in such cases, the legal evidence
produced by the assessee has to guide decision in the matter or the general
observations based on statements, probabilities, human behavior and discovery
of the modus operandi adopted in earning accommodation entries, that have
surfaced during investigations, should guide the AO in arriving at a conclusion
as to whether the claim is genuine or not. An alleged scam might have taken
place in the form of accommodation entries. But it has to be established in each
case, by the party alleging so, that this assessee in question was part of this
scam. The chain of events and the live link of the assessee's action giving his
involvement in the scam should be established. The allegation implies that cash
was paid by the assessee and in return the assessee received accommodation
entry, by way of transfer through banking channels. This allegation that cash
had changed hands has to be proved with evidence, by the AO. Evidence
gathered by the Director Investigation's office by way of statements recorded
etc. has to also be brought on recording each case, when such a statement,
evidence etc. is relied upon by the AO to make any additions. If any material or
evidence is sought to be relied upon by the AO, he has to confront the assessee
with such material. The claim of the assessee cannot be rejected based on mere
conjectures unverified by evidence under the pretentious garb of preponderance
of human probabilities and theory of human behavior by the AO. In view of this, just the modus operandi, generalization, preponderance
of human probabilities cannot be the only basis for rejecting the claim of the
assessee. Unless specific evidence is brought on record to controvert the validity
and correctness of the documentary evidences produced, the same cannot be
rejected by the assessee. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Omar Salay
Mohamed Sait v. CIT [1959] 37 ITR 151 had held that no addition can be made
on the basis of surmises, suspicion and conjectures. In the case of CIT v. Daulat
Ram Rawatmull [1973] 87 ITR 349 (SC) the Hon'ble Supreme Court held that,
the onus to prove that the apparent is not real is on the party who claims it to
be so. The burden of proving a transaction to be bogus has to be strictly
 Page | 9
 ITA No.: 134/KOL/2025
 Assessment Year: 2015-16
 Kalawati Investments & Trading P. Ltd. discharged by adducing legal evidences, which would directly prove the fact of
bogusness or establish circumstance unerringly and reasonably raising
interference to that effect. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Umacharan
Shaw & Bros. v. CIT [1959] 37 ITR 271 held that suspicion however strong,
cannot take the place of evidence. In this connection I refer to the general view
on the topic of conveyance of immovable properties. The rates/sale prices are
at variance with the circle rates fixed by the Registration authorities of the
Government in most cases and the general impression is that cash would have
changed hands. The courts have laid down that judicial notice of such notorious
facts cannot be taken based on generalization. Courts of law are bound to go
by evidence. But in the present case, I noted that the assessing officer has been
guided by the report of the investigation wing prepared with respect to
accommodation entries. The AO has not brought out any part of the investigation
wing report in which the assessee has been investigated and/or found to be a
part of any arrangement for the purpose of generating accommodation entries.
Nothing has been brought on record to show that the persons investigated,
including entry providers, have named that the assessee was in collusion with
them. In absence of such findings it is not possible to link their wrong doings
with the assessee. In fact, the investigation wing is a separate department
which has not been assigned assessment work and has been delegated the
work of only making Investigation. The Act has vested widest powers on this
wing. It is the duty of the investigation wing to conduct proper and detailed
inquiry in any matter where there is allegation of tax evasion and after making
proper inquiry and collecting proper evidences the matter would be sent to the
assessment wing to assess the income as per law. I find no such action executed
by investigation wing against the assessee. In absence of any findings
specifically against the assessee in the investigation wing report, the assessee
cannot be held to be guilty or linked to the wrong acts of the persons
investigated. In this case, the AO at best could have considered the investigation
report as a starting point of Investigation. The report only informed the AO that
some persons may have entered into accommodation entries. The AO was duty
bound to make inquiry from all concerned parties relating to the transactions
and then to collect evidences that the transaction entered into by the assessee
was also a collusive transaction. However, the AO has not brought on record
any evidence to prove that the transactions entered by the assessee which are
otherwise supported by proper third party documents are collusive transactions. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Lalchand Bhagat Ambica Ram
v. CIT [1959] 37 ITR 288 held that assessment could not be based on
background of suspicion and in absence of any evidence to support the same.
The Hon'ble Court held: 5.7. The observations of the Hon'ble Apex Court are equally applicable to the
case of the assessee. The AO having failed to bring on record any material to
prove that the transactions of the assessee were fictitious transactions could
not have rejected the evidences submitted by the assessee. In fact, in this case
nothing has been found against the assessee with aid of any direct evidences
or material against the assessee despite the matter being investigated by
various wings of the Income-tax Department and hence under these
circumstances nothing can be implicated against the assessee. In view of the
above, the findings/allegations of the AO are baseless, without any evidence,
contrary to the facts and circumstances of the case and provisions of the Act.
Hence, the contention of the assessee is accepted and the AO is directed to
 Page | 11
 ITA No.: 134/KOL/2025
 Assessment Year: 2015-16
 Kalawati Investments & Trading P. Ltd. delete the addition of Rs.79,04,700/- made on account of unexplained
 investment u/s 69 of the Act. Accordingly, Ground No. 4 is allowed." 4. Aggrieved with the order of the Ld. CIT(A), the Revenue has filed
the appeal before the Tribunal. 5. Rival contentions were heard and the submissions made have
been examined. 6. We have considered the facts of the case, the submissions made
and the documents filed. The Ld. CIT(A) has analysed the facts of the
case, the law and has arrived at the finding based upon the record.
Since the Ld. AO failed to bring on record any material to prove that the
transactions of the assessee were fictitious transactions and therefore,
the same could not have been rejected on the basis of the evidence filed
by the assessee. Even in the appeal before us, no further evidences have
been brought in support of the fact that the transactions were fictitious
or bogus. Since no fresh evidence has been filed by the Ld. DR,
therefore, we do not find any infirmity in the order of the Ld. CIT(A)
whose order is confirmed and the grounds of appeal raised by the
Revenue are dismissed. 7. In the result, the appeal filed by the Revenue is dismissed. Order pronounced on 20th February, 2026 under Rule 34(4) of the
Income Tax (Appellate Tribunal) Rules, 1963. 2. Kalawati Investments & Trading P. Ltd., 8th Floor, Room No.8E
 Land Mark, 228A, A.J.C Bose Road, Minto Park, Kolkata, West
 Bengal, 700020. 3. CIT(A)-NFAC, Delhi. 4. CIT- 5. CIT(DR), Kolkata Benches, Kolkata. 6. Guard File. //True copy //
 By order

 Assistant Registrar
 ITAT, Kolkata Benches
 Kolkata