Heard the learned counsel for the petitioners.

Perused the records. 2. The petitioners have sought for quashing of

the entire proceedings registered against them in

C.C.No.3117/2017 arising out of PCR No.940/2015 for

the offences punishable under Sections 405 , 406 , 408 and 418 of IPC, which is pending on the file of the IV

Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Court,

Bengaluru. 3. Learned counsel for the petitioners

strenuously contends before this Court that, even if the

entire compliant averments are translated into evidence,

at this stage the complaint filed against the petitioners

by respondent No.2 herein does not disclose any offence

which are punishable under the above said provisions of IPC . He further contends that there is lot of litigation

which has been fought by the parties on the civil side 4 and arbitration proceedings. In fact still the matter is

pending between the parties before the Civil Court. He

also further contends before this Court that the

petitioners herein also filed a complaint against the

accused No.5, and same is also pending and the police

submitted 'B' report and the petitioners have challenged

the said 'B' report before the Court in Crime

No.239/2012. It is also contended by the learned

counsel that the entire allegation is made against the

accused No.5 in C.C.No.3117/2017, and there is no

special or specific allegations made against accused

Nos.1 to 4 before trial Court. Therefore, cognizance

taken against them is bad in law. The learned counsel

also further contended before this Court that accused

Nos.2 to 4 have been made as parties in their personal

capacity. Therefore, no complaint is maintainable

against them in their personal capacity. On these

grounds, he contends that the trial Court has not

considered all these aspects and has taken cognizance 5 on the complaint and issued summons. Being

aggrieved by the said order, the present petition is filed. 4. On careful perusal of the complaint

averments in PCR No.940/2015, the allegations made

against the accused persons is that the complainant

i.e., respondent No.2 herein has specifically stated that

accused No.2 is the Managing Director of petitioner No.1 - Company and is responsible for all the affairs of the

said company. Accused Nos.3 and 4 are the employees

of accused No.1 and also they are responsible for the

criminal actions against the complainant. Accused No.5

was the employee of accused No.1 - Company who is

currently not working with the company, but he is the

person who transacted with the complainant on behalf

of accused Nos.1 to 4 in connection with the shares of

the complainant. It is stated specifically that the

complainant was looking to invest his savings in share

market as a long term investor. Accordingly, he moved

a De-Mat Account bearing No.173672 with accused 6 No.1 in the month of May 2005 at their Bengaluru

office. All the shares which were held by the

complainant either in De-Mat form or in hard paper

were converted to dematerialized form and transferred

to this De-Mat account. 5. It is contended by the complainant that

accused Nos.2 to 4 along with accused No.5 have

started trading with the above shares of the

complainant, without the knowledge of the complainant.

He came to know that, the number of shares in

companies by name Bosch got reduced to 50 and in

Hindalco, it was reduced to 2857 and Siemens was

reduced to zero and later on accused restored 800

shares, etc., It is alleged that the very restoration

amounts to prima-facie admission on the part of

accused persons with regard to fraud played by them

and that, without consent of the complainant they have

started trading with the shares of the complainant.

After seeing the statement of different companies 7 pertaining to his shares, he found that there was fraud

played by the accused persons. On the basis of the said

allegations, the complainant has approached the trial

Court for various reliefs. 6. It is specifically alleged at para 21 of the

complaint that all the accused persons are connected

with the case have not cooperated with the police in

connection with the complaint lodged by the

complainant in Crime No.239/2012. Therefore, he was

forced to file a private complaint after the police have

submitted the 'B' report. It is contended by the

complainant that all the accused persons who are in the

helm of affairs and who had knowledge about the

transaction pertaining to the shares of the complainant

have misutilized the same and thereby they have

committed the offences under Sections 405 , 406 , 408 , 418 of IPC alleged in the complaint. 7. On perusal of the complaint averments and

also recording of the sworn statement of the

complainant, the trial court passed a detailed order

dated 07.01.2017. on careful perusal of the order

passed by the Trial Judge which is a detailed order, it

has gone through the entire averments in the complaint

and also the sworn statement of the complainant and

also referred to various documents produced by the

complainant and thereafter the trial Court has come to

the conclusion that there are prima-facie materials to

proceed against the accused persons. Therefore, it

registered the case against the accused and issued

summons thereon. 8. On careful perusal of the orders impugned,

the trial court has discussed in detail with regard to the

involvement of the accused persons in the crime and

also the averments made in the complaint with regard 9 to attraction of criminal provision as stated by the

complainant. Thereafter it ordered to register the case. 9. Normally, taking of cognizance by the

Magistrate should not be interfered by the Court under Section 482 of Cr.P.C., unless there is any miscarriage

of justice done by the trial Court at the initial stage

itself, unless the Court has no jurisdiction to entertain

such complaint or the complaint averments are read in

proper perspective, if the complaint itself do not disclose

any facts constituting any offence against accused.

But, if there is some semblance of material in the

complaint which attracts the penal provision against the

accused, then the Court has to take cognizance, and

provide opportunity to the accused persons to contest

the same in order to establish their innocence before the

Court. Therefore while exercising the powers under Section 482 Cr.P.C., the Court has to see on careful

perusal of the complaint averments, whether the

complaint discloses any offence as such, whether it 10 attracts any of the penal provisions, if the answer is yes,

normally then such orders taking cognizance cannot be

interfered with. Even for a moment, if the allegations

made in the complaint are proved to be false, then also

the Court can quash said proceedings. These two

aspects are now not available so far as these petitioners

are concerned at this stage. However, added to the

above, though it is not specifically mentioned in the

petition, it is submitted by the learned counsel for the

petitioners that the parties have already ventured to go

before the Arbitrator and the arbitration proceedings

has already been concluded in saddling an amount of

Rs.1,35,22,961/- on the petitioners. However, it is

submitted that the said award passed by the Arbitrator

has been challenged under Section 34 of the Arbitration

and Conciliation Act and the said order passed by the

Arbitrator has been stayed. 10. Be that as it may, the proceedings before the

Arbitrator saddling the damages on the accused is yet to 11 be completely resolved during the course of such civil

proceedings, but the fact remains that there is a serious

dispute with regard to the shares of the complainant as

stated in the complaint. In the above said

circumstances, I do not find any strong reason to

interfere with the order passed by the learned

Magistrate. 11. Learned counsel for the petitioners has cited

a ruling of the Apex Court in the case of S.K. Alagh vs.

State of U.P. and Others reported in

Crl.A.No.317/2008, wherein, the Apex Court has

considered the provisions under Section 406 of IPC and

considered under what circumstances it is attracted.

The factual aspects of that particular case is altogether

totally different compared to this particular case. There

is specific allegation that there was breach of trust by

the accused persons because the shares of the

complainant has been misutilized by the accused, and

later they have re-appropriated that amount to the 12 account of the complainant. Therefore, complainant

alleges that there is breach of trust. That factual

aspects are altogether different and has to be thrashed

out during the course of investigation before the trial

Court. 12. Likewise the ruling reported in Criminal

M.C.No.4200/2002 and Criminal M.C.No.2253/2003

between Pradeep Vakil vs. State & Another , the

Delhi High Court has discussed about the offences

punishable under Sections 420 , 468 and 471 of IPC.

On careful perusal of the factual aspects of the said

case also the Court has plainly concentrated with

regard to making of the parties in their individual

capacity. Therefore, the Court could not have taken

cognizance against the persons of the company who are

made as parties in their personal capacities. Even

applying the said ruling to the present case on hand, it

is clear that accused Nos.2, 3, 4 and 5 have been made

as parties in their official capacity also. Merely because 13 the names of the parties have been typed first and their

designation has been typed thereafter, it does not mean

to say that, they were individually and personally made

as parties to the complaint. On reading of the

complaint averments, the role of the first accused -

Company has been specifically stated and their

designation has been stated and on reading of the entire

complaint it discloses that the accused Nos.2 to 4 have

been made as parties in their official capacity.

Therefore, the said aspect in my opinion is also not

available to the petitioners at this particular stage. 13. In view of the above facts and circumstances

of the case, when the trial Court has applied its

judicious mind and gone through the complaint

averments and also the sworn statement and the

documents produced before the trial Court, eventually

formed an opinion that there is prima-facie case made

out against the accused persons, said orders should not

be interfered with while exercising the power under 14 Section 482 of Cr.P.C. Further added to it, the case is

still at the preliminary stage. It is a private complaint

filed in order to establish their case for framing of

charges, complainant has to lead evidence under Section 244 of Cr.P.C. In that eventuality, the

petitioners can cross-examine the witness and produce

their documents before the Court. In that eventuality,

the Court will have to go through the entire materials

available and find out whether there are sufficient

materials to frame charges against accused persons. In

the above circumstances, the petitioner can make an

application before the trial Court for the discharge and

in that eventuality, the trial Court has to provide

opportunity to both parties and dispose of the said

application in accordance with law. With these observations, the petition stands

dismissed. In view of dismissal of the case on merits,

I.A.Nos.1, 2 and 3 of 2017 do not survive for

consideration and accordingly, they are dismissed. Sd/- JUDGE

ca