for collecting such amount and making over the same to the
person entitled thereto. It also empowers the Collector upon
receipt of such certificate to proceed to recover the amount in
the certificate in the same manner as arrears of land revenue.
The provisions of Section 25 as it stood prior to its
amendment, allowed the District Forum, the State
Commission or the National Commission to enforce its order
in the same manner as if it were a decree or order made by a
Court in a suit pending before it. Such provisions were
found to be causing delay in execution and inappropriate for
the purpose of execution of an order under the Act of 1986. A
District Forum or a State Commission or a National
Commission can impose penalty on any person failing or
omitting to comply with any order made by any of them.
Such power has been vested under Section 27 of the Act of
1986 after its amendment. A District Forum, State
Commission or the National Commission as the case may be,
no longer has the power to execute its order in the same 9 manner as if it was a decree or order made by a Court in a
 suit pending before such Court by virtue of the amendments
 introduced by the Amendment Act of 2002." The learned Commission being a creature of a

statute cannot travel beyond the power granted to it under the

said Act and cannot pass orders in the execution of final orders

as if the same was a decree of the civil court. In this case, the learned Commission tried to

execute its order first by issuance of warrant of arrest against

the petitioner who was not a party to the proceeding in which

the final order was passed, and thereafter directed attachment

of his own residential house with a further direction that, if he

failed to surrender before the police, his house would be sold

and the amount to be recovered as arrears of land renenue. The order dated August 20, 2019 passed in EA/1 of

2016 in Complaint Case No. CC/65/2014 is quashed and set

aside. The complainant is at liberty to pray for issuance of

certificate upon the District Magistrate for recovery of the

amount, and also pray for initiation of proceedings under Section 27 of the said Act, as per law. The opposite party/complainant is also at liberty to

approach the other forum/Commission set up with regard to

recovery of amount invested in Ponzi Schemes in view of the

final order passed in his favour. This revisional application is disposed of.

 There will be however no order as to costs. Urgent photostat certified copy of this order be

given to the parties on priority basis, if the same is applied for. (Shampa Sarkar,J.)