The appellant and the respondent were married on

4-7-1989 at Rakasamma temple, Kadokothana Halli,

Mandya district. After the marriage, till 1999, they lived

happily in the marital home. From the wedlock, a son and

a daughter were born. 2. According to appellant-husband, there was bickering

in the family. That the respondent-wife was pestering the

appellant-husband to construct a house. He had, in fact,

borrowed huge loans from his friends as well as from a

cooperative society. However, the respondent-wife

continued to quarrel with the appellant. In 2003, the

appellant-husband was hospitalized on account of an

accidental fall on a railway line. At that point of time, the

respondent-wife totally neglected him. In May, 2006, the

husband came to know that the respondent-wife was 3 having an illicit relationship with one Shivalinga. When he

questioned her about this, she abused the appellant and

also assaulted him and threw away the mangalasutra at his

face. She left the company of the appellant and never

returned thereafter. Under those circumstances, the

appellant-husband filed a petition under Section 13(1)(i)

and (ia) of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 [for short, the Act],

seeking to dissolve the marriage. 3. On service of notice, the respondent-wife filed her

objection statement. She denied the allegations. She

contended that the husband was addicted to alcohol and

was coming late to the house in a drunken state.

Whenever the respondent-wife questioned him, the

appellant-husband used to assault and ill-treat her. That

she was treated as a bonded labour and was being ill-

treated. She denied the allegation of illicit relationship

levelled against her. On the other hand, she contended

that it was the husband who had developed friendship with

his sister-in-law, who was residing adjacent to their house. 4 4. In support of his case, the appellant-husband

examined himself as PW1 and produced 13 documents.

The wife examined herself as RW1 and relied on six

documents. The Family Court, by the impugned order,

dismissed the petition. Hence, the present appeal by the

husband. 5. Heard learned counsels. 6. Learned counsel for the appellant-husband contends

that the order passed by the Family Court is bad in law and

requires to be set aside. That the Family Court failed to

consider the material and evidence on record. In particular,

he relies on the photographs produced in terms of ExP6 to

11 to contend that the photographs would clearly show that

the respondent-wife was found in a compromising position

with one Shivalinga. That this act of having an illicit

relationship has caused the appellant-husband undue

mental cruelty. Hence, on this ground, he pleads that the

appeal be allowed. 7. On the other hand, learned counsel for the

respondent-wife defends the impugned order. He contends

that there is no material to establish the veracity of ExP6 to

11, as no negatives of the said photographs have been

produced. Even the CD pertaining to ExP6 to 11 as per

ExP12 is in a broken condition. Therefore, since ExP6 to

11 have not been established, the ground of cruelty falls to

the ground. 8. The primary contention of the appellant-husband is

that the acts of respondent-wife in having an illicit

relationship has caused him mental cruelty. On examining

the said photographs, it is seen that the respondent-wife is

shown with another man. She is found to be in a

compromising position in all the photographs. However,

learned counsel for the respondent-wife contends that the

photographs are morphed. That even though she is found

in the photographs, she does not know the other person.

The evidence of the respondent-wife is clear to the extent

that she admits that she is found in the photographs at 6 ExP6 to 11, where she is found in a compromising position

with another man. Such an admission would clearly show

that the act of the respondent-wife has certainly caused

mental cruelty to the appellant-husband. Whether the

person with whom she is found is Shivalinga or any other

man is of little or no concern in so far as the husband is

concerned. No ground of adultery has been alleged against

the respondent-wife. The case of the appellant-husband is

that the act of illegitimate intimacy with the person found

in ExP6 to 11 has caused mental agony to him. It is

because of the actions of the respondent-wife which have

resulted in cruelty to him, he pleads for a decree of divorce. 9. On considering the photographs and in view of the

fact that the respondent-wife herself has admitted in the

cross-examination that it is she who is found in the

photographs, we are of the considered view that the same

amounts to causing mental cruelty to the appellant-

husband. However, the Family Court was of the view that

only because the wife had admitted that she was in the 7 photographs, it does not lead to a conclusion that the

person found in the photograph is Shivalinga, with whom

she is allegedly having an illicit relationship. We are of

the considered view that the reasoning assigned by the

Family Court is unreasonable and unacceptable. It is not

whether the person found in the photographs is Shivalinga

or otherwise, but as to whether the photographs contain

the photos of the wife that is material. Respondent-wife

herself admitted that ExP6 to 11 are her photographs.

That itself is a sufficient ground to hold that such acts of

the wife had caused mental cruelty to the husband.

Therefore, on considering the evidence as well as the

material on record, we are of the view that the Family Court

committed an error in rejecting the case of the husband.

We are of the view that the appellant-husband has made

out an ample case of cruelty against the wife. 10. In the result, this appeal is allowed. The order dated

22-9-2011 passed in MC No 1917 of 2006, by Principal

Judge, Family Court, Bangalore is set aside. The petition 8 filed by the appellant-husband under Section 13(1)(i) and

(ia) of the Act is allowed. The marriage between the parties

solemnized on 4-7-1989 at Rakasamma temple,

Kadokothana Halli, Mandya district is hereby dissolved. Sd/- JUDGE

 Sd/- JUDGE

*pjk