Mr. Deepak R. Shah, Advocate for the Appellant. Mr. Kumar Desai, Advocate with Mr. Mobin Shaikh, Advocate for the
Respondent. CORAM : P. K. Malhotra, Member & Presiding Officer (Offg.)
 S. S. N. Moorthy, Member

Per : P. K. Malhotra

 These two appeals, no. 198 and 200 of 2011, arise out of a common order

dated May 31, 2011 passed by the adjudicating officer of the Securities and

Exchange Board of India (for short the Board) holding the appellants guilty of

violating provisions of Section 12A(a), (b) and (c) of the Securities and Exchange

Board of India Act, 1992 (the Act) and Regulations 3(a), (b), (c), (d) and 4(1) of

the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair

Trade Practices relating to Securities Market) Regulations, 1997 (for short the

regulations) and imposing a penalty of ` 20 crores on the appellant in Appeal no.

198 of 2011 and ` 25 crores on the appellant in Appeal no. 200 of 2011. 2 2. Learned counsel for the appellants submitted that separate orders may be

passed in these two appeals as the transactions of the two appellants in the

securities market are separate and distinct. However, we are of the view that facts

relating to the appellants in these appeals are same or similar and evidence against

each of the appellants, to a large extent, is common. The appellants are husband

and wife and investigations against both of them relate to Initial Public Offerings

(IPO) scam that took place during the period 2003 to 2005. It is for these reasons

that the Board has also passed a common order. We are of the view that no

prejudice will be caused to the appellants by passing a common order in these

appeals. Wherever necessary, we will deal with their case individually. 3. These cases arise out of the IPO scam that was unearthed by the Board in

the year 2005-2006. Before we deal with the facts of the present case, let us

briefly state how this scam was perpetrated. On receipt of information regarding

alleged abuse and misuse of the IPO allotment process, the Board initiated a probe.

During preliminary analysis of buying, selling and dealing in the shares allotted

through IPOs of as many as 21 companies in the years 2003, 2004 and 2005, it

transpired that certain entities opened a large number of demat accounts in

fictitious/benami names. These entities acquired shares of those companies

allotted in the IPOs by making large number of applications of small value so as to

make them eligible for allotment under the retail individual investor category. The

strategy adopted was that subsequent to the receipt of the IPO allotment, these

fictitious/benami allottees transferred the shares to their principals called the 'key

operators' who controlled their accounts and who, in turn, transferred most of the

shares to the 'financiers' who had made available funds for executing the game

plan. In view of the then booming market, the financiers then sold most of these

shares on the first day of listing or soon thereafter thereby making profit out of the

price difference between the issue price and the listing/sale price. 4. The appellants before us are members of the Panchal family including

Ms. Roopalben N. Panchal, Mr. Bhargav Ranchodlal Panchal, Ms. Hina Bhargav

Panchal, Mr. Arjav Nareshbhai Panchal. They have been collectively referred to 3 as 'Panchal group' by the Board. It is the case of the Board that the members of

the Panchal group, along with Karvy Stockbroking Ltd., a depository participant

and stockbroker, and certain other entities were involved as key operators in the

scheme/arrangement of cornering shares under the category reserved for retail

individual investors in the IPO of IL&FS Ltd., IDFC Ltd., Shoppers Stop Ltd.,

Datamatics Technologies Ltd., Nandan Exim Ltd., Yes Bank Ltd., SPL Industries

Ltd., National Thermal Power Corporation Ltd., Disman Pharmaceuticals Ltd.,

Tata Consultancy Services Ltd., Nectar Lifesciences Ltd., Sasken Communication

Technologies Ltd., Amar Remedies Ltd., Suzlon Energy Ltd., FCS Software

Solutions Ltd., Gateway Distripark Ltd., Patni Computers Ltd. and TV Today

Networks Ltd. It was alleged that the appellants are closely related with other

members of the Panchal group. They held joint demat and bank accounts with

them and shared the same address. The Panchal group opened bank accounts in

their own names with Bharat Overseas Bank, Ahmedabad Branch and Indian

Overseas Bank, Thaltej Branch, Ahmedabad. A large number of fictitious names

were then added to these bank accounts which were subsequently used for opening

thousands of demat accounts. One such bank account was opened in the name of

Devangi Panchal (No. 50795 with Bharat Overseas Bank) though it is disputed by

appellants and based on this bank account, 297 demat accounts were opened.

Another bank account no. 54199 was opened in the name of Dipak Panchal,

appellant in Appeal no. 200 of 2011, and this account was used for opening 3450

demat accounts. The demat accounts were opened in various devious

combinations of names and surnames. The group is alleged to have created bank

introduction letters for thousands of fictitious names and based on such

introduction letters as proof of identity and address, the afferent demat accounts

were opened. It is further alleged that the appellants, alongwith other members of

the Panchal group and the depository participant, opened thousands of afferent

accounts with the same address as that of the appellants. It is also alleged that the

two appellants were having several joint accounts with other members of the

Panchal group which were used for opening 37,240 afferent accounts and in

making applications in various IPOs. The particulars mentioned in almost all 4 these accounts were alleged to be either of the appellants or other members of the

Panchal group and all these accounts were in some way or the other

related/connected to the bank account of atleast one member of the Panchal group.

These bank accounts were also used to avail of finance for IPOs from the banks

and other financiers also. The appellants and other entities of the Panchal group

made thousands of IPO applications in the retail individual category. The findings

of the Board further revealed that some entities of the Panchal group opened

afferent accounts, some used them for making applications in retail category of

IPOs, some helped in transfer of shares to financiers and some disposed of the

shares. All of them did not play the same role but they complimented one or the

other in executing the game plan. Therefore, the persons involved in the IPO can

be put in three categories, namely the 'key operators', 'financiers' and others who

are beneficiaries of the shares and who helped in making the scam successful. The

appellants were found to be the major beneficiaries of this whole game plan and

they fall in the last category except in respect of IPO of TV Today Networks

where Dipak Panchal was also found to be a key operator. The total shares

received by each members of the Panchal group are set out in the table below:- It is seen that the appellants before us are the major beneficiaries of the shares

received out of the said IPO scam. The Board worked out the gains made by the

appellants from the shares so received by them as under:- 5. A show cause notice dated June 14, 2006 was issued to Dipak Panchal

under Rule 4 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for

Holding Inquiry and Imposing Penalties by the Adjudicating Officer) Rules, 1995

(for short, inquiry procedure rules) setting out the charge against him and asking

him to show cause as to why enquiry should not be held against him and penalty

imposed. A supplementary show cause notice was also issued on October 20,

2009 and findings of the enquiry report were also made available. Similarly, show

cause notice was issued to Devangi Panchal on June 7, 2006 followed by two

supplementary show cause notices issued on June 14, 2006 and October 20, 2009.

The reply received from them was duly considered. Opportunity of personal

hearing was also afforded. However, it appears from the details recorded in the

impugned order that the opportunity of personal hearing was not availed of by the

appellants and, therefore, the adjudicating officer proceeded with the matter on the

basis of information/material available on record and the submissions made by the

appellants in response to the show cause notices issued to them. After considering

the material available on record, the adjudicating officer found the appellants

guilty of the charges leveled against them and imposed penalties as stated above.

Hence these appeals. 6. We have heard Mr. Sunit S. Shah, senior Advocate for the appellant in

Appeal No. 200 of 2011, Mr. Dipak R. Shah Advocate for the appellant in Appeal

no. 198 of 2011 and Mr. Kumar Desai, Advocate for the respondent Board who

have also taken us through the records in detail. At the outset, learned counsel for

the respondent Board submitted that all the facts and the material documents

which formed the basis of the show cause notice to the appellants are the same

which formed the basis of show cause notice issued by the whole time member of

the Board in separate proceedings under Section 11 / 11B of the Act. On the basis

of the said facts and material, as set out in the show cause notice, order was passed

by the whole time member of the Board against all members of the Panchal group 7 on February 25, 2011. While issuing directions against all the members of the

Panchal group, the whole time member had observed that the acts of serious

irregularities have enriched the appellants at the cost of retail individual investors

and threatened the market integrity. Therefore, after taking into account the period

of prohibition already undergone by the members of the Panchal group, pursuant

to the interim order, they were further prohibited from buying, selling or dealing in

the securities market, in any manner for a period of three months. In addition, the

members of the Panchal group were also directed to disgorge the unlawful gains

including interest thereon amounting to ` 36,03,37,542/-. Devangi Panchal was

directed to disgorge the unlawful gains of ` 9,01,05,278/- alongwith interest of `

4,50,52,639/- (total ` 13,51,57,917/-) and Dipak Panchal was directed to disgorge

unlawful gains of ` 7,16,64,774/- alongwith interest of ` 3,58,32,387/- (total of `

10,74,97,161/-). It was pointed out by the learned counsel for the Board that none

of the members of the Panchal group, including the appellants, has filed any

appeal against the said order which has now become final and binding on all

members of the Panchal group including the appellants. Since the issues of both

fact and law already stand concluded against the appellants by the order of the

whole time member dated February 25, 2011, which has become final, the

appellants cannot now reagitate/reargue the issues either on facts or on law. 7. To deal with this argument, let us have a look at the scheme of the Act. The Act was enacted to provide for establishment of the Board to protect the

interest of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to

regulate the securities market and for matters connected there with or incidental

thereto. Powers and functions of the Board are defined in Chapter IV of the Act .

This chapter not only cast a duty on the Board to protect interest of investors in

securities and to regulate the securities market by such measures as it thinks fit, it

also empowers the Board to make regulations in matters relating to issue of

capital, transfer of securities etc. and also issue joint or special orders prohibiting

any company from issuing of prospectus, any other documents, or advertisement

for soliciting money from the public for the issue of securities. It also empowers

the Board to issue directions to any person or class of persons referred to in 8 Section 12 (i.e. intermediaries) or persons associated with the securities market.

Admittedly, the Board had issued directions prohibiting members of the Panchal

group from dealing in the securities market. A consistent view has been taken by

this Tribunal in the past that exercise of this power is preventive and remedial and

not punitive in nature. There is a separate chapter i.e. Chapter VIA of the Act which provides for penalties and adjudication. This Chapter provides for penalties

and procedure for adjudication before any penalty, as stated in the Act, can be

imposed. These are the proceedings which are subject matter of consideration in

these appeals. The Act also empowers the Board to suspend or cancel a certificate

of registration under Section 12(3) of the Act. It also provides for punishing a

person under Section 11(6) of the Act for not cooperating in the investigations

carried out by the Board. There is yet another provision in the Act i.e. Section 24 which provides that without prejudice to any award of penalty by the adjudicating

officer, if any person contravenes or attempts to contravene or abets the

contravention of the provisions of the Act or any rules or regulations made

thereunder, he shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term or fine or both as

provided therein. It will, thus, be seen that the Act contemplates three types of

proceedings, namely, 1) remedial and preventive under Chapter IV of the Act ; 2) penalties under Chapter V and VIA (proceedings civil in nature); and 3) prosecution under Section 11C(6) and Section 24 (proceedings criminal

 in nature)

There is no bar under the Act in taking all the three actions simultaneously or

taking only one of the actions as the Board may deem fit. It does not

automatically follow that if Board has initiated action under one of the powers

enumerated above, there is no need to follow the laid down procedure for initiating

action in exercise of powers conferred under other sections of the Act. The

procedure laid down in all the three situations is different and authorities

competent to take action are also different. Therefore, procedure, as laid down for

each of the actions stated above, will have to be followed. We are, therefore, not 9 inclined to agree with learned counsel for the respondent Board that since the

order passed by the whole time member in exercise of powers under Chapter IV of

the Act has become final, the allegations against the appellants in adjudication

proceedings under Chapter VIA of the Act cannot be agitated. However, we may

hasten to add that in the absence of any additional material or facts placed on

record, the earlier order passed by a competent authority will have a persuasive

value, though not a conclusive proof, in respect of the findings arrived at by the

Board. The charge in adjudication proceedings must stand and be proved on the

basis of material that may be placed on record and considering the defence of the

appellants as placed on record in adjudication proceedings. 8. Having said so, let us now deal with the arguments advanced on behalf of

the appellants. Learned counsel for the appellants vehemently contended that

there has been violation of principles of natural justice as the respondent Board has

not followed the procedure laid down for holding enquiry under the enquiry

procedure rules. It was further contended that extracts of the investigation report

made available are unsigned, undated and without page numbers. The findings of

the enquiry officer have not been provided. Learned counsel for the appellants

also submitted that hearing could not be availed of on the scheduled dates for

genuine reasons and the adjudicating officer of the Board has failed to provide

inspection and hearing as prayed for by the appellants. 9. We find that on the basis of enquiry conducted by the Board, the

adjudicating officer has clearly brought out the charge against the appellants in the

show cause notice issued to them. Simply because the extract of the enquiry

report annexed to the show cause notice does not contain page numbers or are not

dated it is of no consequence if the parties are not disputing the contents thereof.

If the show cause notice itself provides details of the charge against the appellants

and they are given full opportunity to present their case, no prejudice can be said

to have been caused resulting in violation of principles of natural justice. With

regard to the submission that the hearing could not be availed of for genuine

reasons, we find that the adjudicating officer has dealt with this aspect under the 10 heading 'show cause notice, reply and personal hearing' in paragraphs 5 to 19 of

the impugned order. We find that as many as nine dates for hearing were fixed

and the appellants failed to avail of the opportunity of personal hearing granted to

them. The adjudicating officer also fixed two dates granting inspection of

documents and the appellants neglected to take inspection of the documents

referred to and relied upon in the show cause notice. Perusal of the aforesaid

paragraphs of the impugned order clearly shows that the appellants were adopting

dilatory and delaying tactics. Under such circumstances the allegation of breach

of principles of natural justice is without any basis. A person alleging breach of

natural justice must show that prejudice has been caused to him as a result of

inspection not having been granted or opportunity of hearing not being afforded.

It is, in fact, the appellants who failed to avail of this opportunity. Learned

counsel for the appellants has relied on the decisions reported as Canara Bank &

Ors. Vs. Shri Debasis Shah [( 2003) 4 SCC 557], Reckitt & Colman of India

Ltd. vs. Collector of Central Excise [1996 ( 88) ELT 641 SC], Amrit Foods vs.

Commissioner of Central Excise, UP [2005 (190) ELT 433 SC], Hindustan

Polymers Co. Ltd. vs. Collector of Central Excise, Guntur [1999 (106) ELT 12

SC] to contend that adherence to principles of natural justice is of supreme

importance when a quasi judicial body embarks on determining disputes between

the parties, or any administrative action involving civil consequence is in issue.

We have gone through these judgments. These judgments were given in the facts

and circumstances of each case. Though the principle laid down in these

judgments for adhering to rule of audi alteram partem is not in dispute, the

appellants have failed to bring any material on record that either the opportunity of

hearing was not granted or that the charges were such which are not understood by

the appellants or they were not aware of the case which they are required to meet.

The detailed narration given in the impugned order in paras 5 to 19 makes it clear

that the adjudicating officer was more than willing to accommodate the appellants

and it is in fact the appellants who were not willing to avail of the opportunity

afforded to them. In the case of Haryana Financial Corporation vs.

Kailashchand Ahuja [2008 (9) SCC 31], the Supreme Court has observed that 11 the theory of reasonable opportunity and principles of natural justice have been

evolved to uphold the rule of law and to assist the individual to indicate his just

rights. Whether, in fact, prejudice has been caused to the employee or not on

account of denial to him of the report has to be considered on the facts and

circumstances of each case. Even in cases where procedural requirements have

not been complied with, action cannot be ipso facto illegal or void, unless it is

shown that non observance has prejudicially affected the delinquent. In the case in

hand, only reference has been made to the report of the enquiry officer. The show

cause notice is a self contained document containing the allegation against the

appellants and they were given opportunity to give reply, opportunity to inspect

the documents and opportunity of personal hearing. If they have failed to avail of

any such opportunity, no fault can be found with the Board. Since the show cause

notice itself contains details of the charges against them, the appellants cannot

contend that the principles of natural justice have been violated by not making

available to them the enquiry report. 10. It was further contended by the learned counsel for the appellants that the

procedure laid down for holding enquiry under Rule 4 of the enquiry procedure

rules has not been followed. According to the learned counsel for the appellants,

the adjudicating officer should have first issued a notice requiring the appellants to

show cause as to why an enquiry should not be held against them and such notice

should contain only the nature of offences that are committed by the appellants. It

is only after considering the reply of the appellants that the decision to hold an

enquiry should have been taken. However, only one notice under Rule 4(1) of the

enquiry procedure rules was issued calling upon the appellants to show cause why

penalty should not be imposed upon them. It was also contended that Sections

15HA and 15HB of the Act have been included in Rule 4(1) of the enquiry

procedure rules only with effect from November 14, 2006 whereas appellants'

transactions relate to the period 2003 to 2005. No enquiry, therefore, can be held

under the said enquiry procedure rules for imposing penalty under Sections 15HA and 15HB of the Act. 11. Rule 4 of the enquiry procedure rules prescribes the procedure for holding

enquiry and reads as under :- The enquiry procedure rules were issued by the Central Government in exercise of

the powers conferred by clause (d)(a) of sub-section (2) of Section 29 of the Act

for holding enquiry for the purpose of imposing penalty under Chapter VIA of the

Act . The power to impose penalty does not flow from these rules. Power to

adjudicate flows from Section 15-I of the Act, relevant portion of which reads as

under :- It may be noted that Sections 15H , 15HA and 15HB were substituted for Section

15H by Act no. 54 of 2002 with effect from October 29, 2002. Therefore, the

power of the adjudicating officer to adjudicate for penalties to be imposed under Sections 15HA and 15HB was conferred in October 2002 and not in October 2006

when Rule 4 was amended. We are also of the view that the enquiry procedure

rules only govern the procedure to be followed by the adjudicating officer while

holding an enquiry and can be applied retrospectively to all the pending

proceedings. On the issue that the adjudicating officer has issued only one notice

under Rule 4(1) of the enquiry procedure rules, we are not inclined to accept the

argument of the learned counsel for the appellants that the procedure was not

followed. Simply because the adjudicating officer has referred to the section

under which penalty can be imposed in the notice itself will not vitiate the

proceedings. Perusal of the record shows that after issuing the show cause notice

and after considering the reply to show cause notice, the adjudicating officer has

issued a further notice fixing the date for appearance of the charged persons. This

appears to be strictly in accordance with the procedure laid down in Rule 4 of the

enquiry procedure rules. We, therefore, reject the arguments of the learned

counsel for the appellants in this behalf. 12. It was then argued by the learned counsel for the appellants that action

under Section 15HA of the Act can be initiated only if a person indulges in

fraudulent and unfair trade practices relating to securities. The appellants have not

dealt in securities and have not defrauded anyone. The appellants are only buyers

of securities for consideration and that too after listing of the shares on the stock

exchanges. Therefore, they are not part of the IPO scam. It was then argued that

the provisions of Sections 12A(a) , (b) and (c) are in peri materia with the

provisions of regulation 3(b), (c) and (d) of the FUTP regulations. The Board has

found the appellants guilty of violating these provisions without identifying the

specific provision which has been violated. It was submitted that penal provisions

are to be strictly construed and without identifying a specific provision, the

appellants cannot be held guilty. Referring to the definition of fraud as contained

in regulation 2(c) of the FUTP regulations, learned counsel for the appellants

further submitted that their action does not fall within the definition of fraud nor

are they persons dealing in securities. They are buyers of the securities in the

ordinary course of dealings on payment of consideration. Such transactions cannot

be construed to be fraudulent. 13. We are unable to agree with these submissions of the learned counsel for

the appellants. The appellants may not fall within the category of intermediaries

referred to in Section 12 of the Act but they are definitely persons associated with

the securities market. The High Court of Gujarat in the case of Karnavati Fincap

Ltd. vs. Securities and Exchange Board of India [1996] 87 CompCas 186

(Guj), had an occasion to deal with this issue and this is what the High Court has

held:- have not been defined in the Act. The question then arises whether
 "persons associated with the securities market" takes its colour
 from persons enumerated in clause (ba)? If one has to go by the
 literal meaning, the interpretation which restricts the meaning of
 "persons associated with the securities market" to the persons
 enumerated in clause (ba) is not acceptable. In ordinary meaning,
 the persons associated with the securities market would include all
 and sundry who have something to do with the securities market. It
 is to be noted that the securities market in the sense is not
 confirmed to stock exchanges only. The words "persons associated
 with the securities market" are of much wider import than
 intermediaries. "Persons associated with" denotes a person having 15 connection or having intercourse with the other, in the present case
 that "other" with whom a person is to have connection or
 intercourse in the securities market". The term "securities market" under section 2(i) of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act
 means any body of individuals whether corporate or not, constituted
 for the purpose of assisting, regulating or controlling the business of
 buying, selling or dealing in securities. "Securities" has been
 defined under section 2(h) to include shares, scrips, stocks,
 debentures, debenture stock or other marketable securities of like
 nature in or of any incorporated company or other body corporate,
 etc., etc. What in noticeable is it refers to "marketability" of it. A
 stock exchange is more than a mere selling, buying or dealing place
 for securities, but adorns the role of an assisting agency in smooth
 conduct of securities business by suitable regulating or controlling
 authority. None the less a market cannot be conceived of without a
 seller or buyer who are the primary persons for whose purpose the
 market exists. All activities of business of selling and buying are
 related to the seller or the buyer. It is inconceivable to think that a
 buyer or seller of a scrip is not a person associated with the
 securities market, where or through which he transacts his business,
 whether as trader or as investor, of selling or buying the required
 scrip" 14. Learned counsel for the appellants further argued that the investigation

carried out by the Board was with regard to opening of alleged fictitious bank 16 accounts and demat accounts before allotment of shares. There is no allegation

with regard to sale of shares after they were allotted in the IPO. The show cause

notice has not brought out clearly the charge against the appellants. The show

cause notice must be precise, unambiguous, person centeric and must clearly

allege the role of each appellant. The appellants have simply purchased shares

from Roopalben Panchal at prevailing market price/negotiated price and paid legal

consideration. The adjudicating officer has ignored the relevant material and

thereby committed a serious jurisdictional error in arriving at the conclusions. He

has also ignored the fact that the alleged fictitious demat accounts were opened

prior to the opening of the bank accounts. Roopalben Panchal has confirmed the

sale of shares to the appellants indicating the number of shares sold, price at which

these were sold and acknowledgement of the consideration received for the same.

The appellants also submitted declaration of Roopalben Panchal confirming

dealing in the shares. All the transactions have been reflected in the income tax

returns which were filed much earlier than the order passed by the Board.

Therefore, the appellants cannot be said to have committed any fraud as alleged by

the Board and the findings of the adjudicating officer needs to be set aside on these

grounds. 15. We are unable to accept these submissions of learned counsel for the

appellants. As per the records available, the investigation was not confined to the

alleged fictitious bank accounts or the demat accounts but was pertaining to the

IPO scam. As discussed in the earlier part of this order, various entities have

played different roles to make the whole IPO scam successful. The role of the

appellants, as discussed above, pertains to permitting use of their bank accounts

for opening fictitious demat accounts and arranging finance using these bank

accounts, getting the shares allotted in the IPO to their accounts and ultimately

selling these shares in the market thereby earning profit. In the facts and

circumstances of the case, it cannot be said that it was a purchase simplicitor of the

shares by the appellants from Roopalben Panchal who was another active member

of the Panchal group in making the IPO scam successful. We are inclined to agree 17 with the learned counsel for the respondent Board that the confirmation letters

submitted by Roopalben Panchal with regard to the number of shares sold, price at

which they were sold and acknowledgement of consideration received from the

appellants are self serving documents which were not produced at the first

available opportunity. In none of these documents, amounts tally with the

consideration for the shares purchased. The declaration given by Roopalben

Panchal confirming dealings of the shares other than IPO and transactions in 1999

does not, in any way, mitigate the case against the appellants with regard to

transactions in respect of shares under the IPO scam. On the basis of material

placed on record, the transfer of shares from Roopalben Panchal to appellants is

not in dispute. These were the shares which were purchased using fictitious demat

accounts is also not in dispute. If the earnings under these shares are shown in the

income tax returns, that by itself, cannot be a mitigating factor if transactions are

otherwise found to be vioaltive of regulatory framework. Learned counsel for the

appellants have referred to certain judgments including the order of this Tribunal

in Jatin Manubhai Shah & Ors. vs. Adjudicating Officer (Appeal no. 16 of

2010 decided on March 1, 2011), Moneygrowth Investment and Consultants

Pvt. Ltd. vs. SEBI (Appeal no. 1 of 2008 decided on August 27, 2008),

Rajendra G. Parikh vs. SEBI (Appeal no. 44 of 2009 decided on January 21,

2010), Sanjay Kumar Gupta vs. SEBI (Appeal no. 107 of 2007 decided on July

8, 2008) and Vikas Ganeshmal Bengani vs. Adjudicating Officer (Appeal no.

283 of 2009 decided on March 8, 2010) to contend that the charge levelled

against the delinquent must be precise and unambiguous. Vagueness in the show

cause notice is fatal to the case. We have looked into these orders. While

agreeing with the preposition that the charges in the show cause notice must be

clear and unambiguous, we find that there is no such infirmity in the impugned

order. When a case is to be established on the basis of circumstantial evidence,

establishing the complicity of persons involved in fraudulent or unfair schemes is a

challenge. There are situations where different layers of the transactions, each of

which may fall within the four corners of law, but, if analysed cumulatively, may

bring them within the fraudulent transactions as prescribed in the regulations. 18 Whether a transaction or series of transactions integrally connected with each

other will fall within the purview of fraudulent transactions, as defined in the

regulations, will depend upon the facts brought out on record during the

investigation and the connection established between the parties. Examined in that

perspective, the Board has placed sufficient material on record to prove that the

transactions entered into by the appellants fall within the definition of 'fraud' as

provided in regulation 2(c) of the FUTP regulations. 16. It was then argued by the learned counsel for the appellants that the Board

has not indicated in the impugned order as to which provisions of regulation 3(a)

to (d) and 4(1) of the regulations or section 12A(a) to (c) of the Act are violated.

Let us have a look at these provisions:- 4. Prohibition of manipulative, fraudulent and unfair
 trade practices

 (1) Without prejudice to the provisions of regulation 3, no
 person shall indulge in a fraudulent or an unfair trade
 practice in securities. 12A. Prohibition of manipulative and deceptive devices,
 insider trading and substantial acquisition of securities or
 control.- No Person shall directly or indirectly- a) use or employ, in connection with the issue, purchase or sale
 of any securities listed or proposed to be listed on a
 recognised stock exchange any manipulative or deceptive
 device or contrivance in contravention of the provisions of
 this Act or the rules or the regulations made thereunder; b) employ any device, scheme or artifice to defraud in
 connection with issue or dealing in securities which are listed
 or proposed to be listed on recognised stock exchange; c) engage in any act, practice, course of business which operates
 or would operate as fraud or deceit upon any person, in
 connection with the issue, dealing in securities which are
 listed or proposed to be listed on a recognised stock exchange,
 in contravention of the provisions if this Act or the rules or
 the regulations made thereunder; (d) to (f) ........................................................................................"

It may be noted that the provisions of regulation 3 (b), (c) and (d) of the FUTP

regulations are in peri materia with the provisions of section 12A(a) , (b) and (c) of

the Act and are couched in a general term to cover wide range of manipulative

practices. Similarly, regulation 3(a) and 4(1) of the FUTP regulations prohibits

dealing in securities in a fraudulent manner. Once a conclusion is arrived at that

fraud has been perpetrated while dealing in securities, all these provisions get

attracted in a situation like the one under consideration. We are not inclined to

agree with the learned counsel for the appellants that Board should have identified

as to which particular provision of the Act or the FUTP regulations has been

violated. 17. After perusing the material placed on record and after hearing learned

counsel for the parties, we are convinced that the appellants are part of the Panchal

group. Some members of the Panchal group opened bank accounts with Bharat

Overseas Bank and Indian Overseas Bank and these bank accounts were used to

open several other afferent bank accounts and thousands of afferent demat

accounts in the name of fictitious persons. These afferent demat accounts were

used by members of the Panchal group to make applications in various IPOs. The 20 applications were made on the basis of loans taken from the two banks or Karvy,

the depository participant, in the name of the afferent bank account holders or

other demat account holders. Loans were also raised by members of the Panchal

group from private financiers. On allotment of shares, these shares were

transferred from the afferent accounts to the accounts of the Panchal group who

further transferred the shares either in the demat accounts of the financiers or other

members of the Panchal group including the appellants. The appellants then sold

these shares and made substantial profit. On the basis of material placed on

record, we cannot find any fault with the findings arrived at by the adjudicating

officer of the Board that the appellants have indulged in fraudulent/manipulative

activities and employed deceptive devise to corner the shares reserved for retail

individual investors in the IPOs to defraud the retail individual investors and such

activity is not only in breach the integrity of the market, but also vioaltive of the

provisions of section 12A (a) , (b) and (c) and Regulation 3 (a) , (b), (c) and (d) and

4(1) of the FUTP regulations. There is a clear finding of the Board that the

provisions, as noted above, stand violated and it was not necessary for the Board to

give specific finding with regard to violation of each of the sub-regulation of the

FUTP regulations or the sub-section of the Act. 18. Learned counsel for the appellants then argued that the penalty of ` 25

crores imposed on Devangi Panchal and ` 20 crores imposed on Dipak Panchal is

too high and not commensurate with the violations alleged to have been committed

by the appellants. The role of the appellants is that of selling the shares after they

were listed and making profit thereon. They are neither key operators nor

financiers. Even the key operators or the financiers who were the main

perpetrators of the IPO scam have not been imposed such a heavy penalty. A chart

has been made available by the appellants indicating the penalties imposed by the

adjudicating officer in other cases relating to this IPO scam and the same is

reproduced here for the sake of convenience :- It is pertinent to note that, Ld. AO has not passed any order against Karvy Group of
 Companies till date." 19. It was further submitted that the whole time member of the Board, while

passing the order under Section 11 and 11B of the Act, has not only debarred the

appellants from dealing in securities, a disgorgement order has also been passed

whereby the members of the Panchal group have been directed to disgorge the

unlawful gains including the interest thereon amounting of ` 36,03,37,552/-.

Devangi Panchal has been directed to pay a total amount of ` 13,51,57,917/- and

Dipak Panchal has been directed to disgorge an amount of ` 10,74,97,161/-. In

view of the lower monetary penalties on others and the order of disgorgement

against the appellants and the role played by the appellants, only a nominal penalty

should have been imposed on the appellants. 20. On the other hand, learned counsel for the respondent Board submitted that

though the quantum of penalty is justiciable and can be gone into by the appellate

authority, the appellate authority should not normally interfere with the quantum

of penalty if the adjudicating officer has taken into account relevant factors for the

purpose of arriving at the quantum. The penalty imposed by the adjudicating

officer is appropriate and correct and ought not to be interfered with except to

correct certain inadvertent errors/inaccuracies. Learned counsel for the respondent

Board has also placed on record a chart indicating the proceedings initiated against

persons involved in the IPO scam. It is a detailed chart running into five pages

and giving the details of the proceedings initiated under Section 11B , adjudication

proceedings, prosecution proceedings, CBI proceedings and consent proceedings

under the Act and it contain details of 82 such entities. Suffice it to say that in the

said chart the maximum amount of disgorgement against any other entity is in the

case of M/s. Excell Multi Tech Limited, where it has been asked to disgorge an

amount of ` 22,05,86,584/- and an interest of ` 8,82,34,634/-. No order in the

adjudication proceedings appears to have been passed against the said entity,

although, the said entity has played the role of a financier to make the IPO scam

successful. The chart also indicates that a large number of cases have been settled

in consent proceedings and no further action was initiated against the entities who

settled the matters through consent proceedings. 21. We have given our thoughtful consideration to the submissions made by

the learned counsel on both sides. Section 15HA of the Act under which the

penalty has been imposed by the adjudicating officer on these appellants reads as

under :- Section 15J of the Act also enumerates the factors to be taken into account by the

adjudicating officer while adjudging the quantum of penalty and it reads as

under :- No doubt, while passing the order, the adjudicating officer of the Board has made

reference to the above noted provisions and has imposed maximum penalty which

could have been imposed under the Act. Simply because the Act provides for

heavy penalties, does not mean that invariably heavy penalty alone should be

imposed. Imposition of penalty depends on many factors including the factors

enumerated in Section 15J of the Act. We cannot lose sight of the fact that the key

operators and the financiers were more culpable for the whole IPO scam as

compared to the appellants. In none of the cases made available by the appellants

and the respondent Board, as noted above, such a heavy penalty has been imposed

on any other entity involved in the case except on Excell Multi Tech Limited

which was held to be guilty of financing the IPO transactions. We also notice that

a large number of cases have been settled through consent proceedings. The 24 appellants were restrained from trading in the market for a sufficiently long period

and in the order passed under Section 11 and 11B of the Act, they have been

directed to disgorge an amount of more than ` 24.26 crores. Keeping in view the

order passed by the whole time member of the Board against the appellants, the

quantum of penalty imposed on other entities involved in the scam and also the

fact that a large number of entities have been permitted to settle the matter through

consent proceedings, we are of the view that ends of justice would be met by

reducing the penalty in the case of the two appellants before us to ` 2 crores each. 22. While upholding the findings arrived at by the adjudicating officer, we

reduce the penalty to ` 2 crores in respect of each of the appellants. The appeals stand disposed of accordingly with no order as to costs. Sd/- P. K. Malhotra
 Member &
 Presiding Officer (Offg.)

 Sd/- S. S. N. Moorthy
 Member

12.11.2012
Prepared & Compared by
ptm