In
	the present petition, the petitioners have prayed for quashing of a
	criminal complaint being Criminal Case No.1269/1998 filed by
	respondent no.2 herein before learned Judicial Magistrate First
	Class, Veraval on 20.7.1998. In
	the said complaint, it is stated that on 19.7.1998, when the
	complainant was sitting in his chamber at Hotel Park, all the
	accused persons i.e. the petitioners herein came to his chamber and
	after some discussion regarding the pending proceedings before the
	Bombay High Court, these persons got excited and started using foul
	language. Upon hearing the shouting, driver and electrician of the
	complainant rushed to his chamber. Accused nos. 3,4 and 5 were
	instigating other accused and accused nos. 1 and 2 were threatening
	to assault the complainant upon which he left his chamber. At that
	time, the accused were giving threat to the complainant that they
	will send hired criminals to crush his bones. On the basis of these
	allegations, the complainant lodged a complaint for offences
	punishable under Sections 352 , 504 , 506 and 114 of the Indian Penal
	Code. Though
	served, no one appears for respondent no.2 i.e. original
	complainant. I have heard learned advocate Ms. Jani for the
	petitioners and learned APP Shri Dipen Desai for respondent
	no.1-State. From
	the material on record, it is established that the petitioners were
	the Directors of one Albaraka Finance House Ltd which company had
	loaned substantial amounts to respondent no.2. Civil Suits were
	pending before the Bombay High Court for recovery of such amount
	since the complainant had not repaid the same. There were other
	proceedings also initiated by the petitioners against respondent
	no.2 including the complaint for misstatement in the prospectus.
	Apparently, to use the present complaint as lever against the
	petitioners, respondent no.2 filed the said complaint making general
	allegations of attempted assault. Learned advocate Ms. Jani for the
	petitioners drew my attention to the averments made in the petition
	and submitted that the petitioners had in the past held highly
	responsible positions. The petitioner no.3 was the Executive
	Director of RBI. All the petitioners are highly respectable members
	of the society and were of advanced age. The petitioners nos. 3 and
	4 were aged about 70 and 74 years respectively on the date of
	incident. It is further stated in the petition that petitioner no.5
	resides in Saudi Arabia and has never travelled to India. The other
	petitioners also on the date of incident were not present in
	Jamnagar when the alleged incident took place. Though
	sufficient opportunity has been given to respondent no.2, no denial
	affidavit has been filed controverting the statement made by the
	petitioners on oath. I am conscious of the fact that ordinarily
	while the Court is considering the issue of quashing of complaint,
	factual controversies cannot be gone into. The present case is 
	however, somewhat peculiar. Apparently, only by way of
	counter-blast, the complaint seems to have been filed. It is not in
	dispute that the petitioners had initiated civil as well as criminal
	proceedings against respondent no.2 for being unable to pay the
	debts of the Company in which the petitioners were the Directors. Considering
	all these aspects of the matter, I am fully convinced that filing of
	the complaint was only with a view to harass the petitioners and
	permitting such complaint to be investigated would only amount to
	abuse of process of Court. Ordinarily,
	while considering the question of quashing the complaint,the Court
	would confine its inquiry to whether the allegations made in the
	complaint taken on the face value discloses any offence or not, in
	rare cases some flexibility is always available with the Court as
	was held by the Apex Court in the case of State of Haryana and
	others v. Bhajanlal and others reported in 1992 Supp(1) Supreme
	Court Cases 335. In this regard, laying down broad parameters in
	exercise of powers under Section 482 of the Criminal Procedure Code,
	the Apex Court laid down following principles for such exercise : Where the allegations in the First Information Report and other
	materials, if any, accompanying the F. I. R. do not disclose a
	cognizable offence, justifying an investigation by police officers
	under Section 156 (1) of the Code except under an order of a
	Magistrate within the purview of Section 155(2) of the Code. 3.
	Where the uncontroverted allegations made in the FIR or complaint
	and the evidence collected in support of the same do not disclose
	the commission of any offence and make out a case against the
	accused. 4.
	Where, the allegations in the F.I.R. do not constitute a cognizable
	offence but constitute only a non-cognizable offence, no
	investigation is permitted by a police officer without an order of a
	Magistrate as contemplated under Section 155(2) of the Code. 5.
	Where the allegations made in the F.I.R. or complaint are so absurd
	and inherently improbable on the basis of which no prudent person
	can ever reach a just conclusion that there is sufficient ground for
	proceeding against the accused. 6.
	Where there is an express legal bar engrafted in any of the
	provisions of the Code or the concerned Act (under which a criminal
	proceeding is instituted) to the institution and continuance of the
	proceedings and/ or where there is a specific provision in the Code
	or the oncerned Act, providing efficacious redress for the grievance
	of the aggrieved party. 7.
	Where a criminal proceeding is manifestly attended with mala fide
	and/ or where the proceeding is maliciously instituted with an
	ulterior motive for wreaking vengeance on the accused and with a
	view to spite him due to private and personal grudge.?? Applying
	the principles laid down in the said decision to the facts of the
	present case, I have no hesitation in coming to the conclusion that
	on the very face of it entire complaint and allegations made therein
	are so absurd that it is not possible ever to reach to the
	conclusion of guilt of the petitioner and further that proceeding is
	initiated with mala fide and malacious intention of abusing the
	process of Court. In
	the result, by allowing this petition, complaint dated 20.7.1998 
	filed before learned Judicial Magistrate First Class, Veraval, is
	quashed. Rule made absolute. (Akil
Kureshi,J.) 

 

(raghu) Top