This application under Section 438 of the
Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 has been filed
for grant of bail to the applicant who is
apprehending her arrest in connection with Crime
No.521/2017 for offences under section 420 , 406 , 467 , 468 , 471 and 120-B of IPC and section 6 of
Madhya Pradesh Nikshepakon ke Sanrakshan
Adhiniyam registered at Police Station-Omiti,
District-Jabalpur. The applicant herein is apprehending her
arrest in the aforesaid case. She is aged about 31
years. The allegations against her is that she
along with the principal accused Ravikiran
Shrivastava and Asima Arora had cheated several
investors and encouraged people to invest money
in New Vistas a company run by main accused Ravi
Kiran Shrivastava. The detailed facts with regard
to her involvement have already been given in the
order dated 28.02.2018 and for the sake of brevity
the same are not being reproduced herein.
 However, learned counsel for the State has
objected to the anticipatory bail being granted to
the applicant herein on the ground that there is
evidence against her in the form of statements of
witnesses who have specifically stated that the
applicant herein had taken monies from them,
while representing the company. He has also
stated that it is without doubt that the applicant
was a Director in the company. As regards the first
contention of the learned counsel for the State
that the applicant has received monies from the
various complainants, learned counsel for the
applicant states that the same was done in her
capacity of an employee of the company. As
regards the allegations that she was the Director
in the said company. Learned counsel for the
applicant has drawn the attention of this Court to
the order passed by it on 28.02.2018 in which this
Court had observed after going through the
material on record, this Court had observed that
there was a declaration by the principal accused
Ravikiran Shrivastava that the name of the
applicant herein was inserted by Ravikiran
Shrivastava without the knowledge or consent of
the applicant and that as Managing Director, it
was only Ravikiran Shrivastava who was solely
responsible for all the operations related to the
account. Learned counsel for the applicant has
also submitted that there is nothing to show by
 the prosecution that the applicant herein had ever
deposited any of the money received by her from
the complainants and the other investors into her
personal account. Learned counsel for the State on the earlier
hearing had made a submission that the applicant
had made a payment to Gunjan Pandey from her
personal account, amounting to Rs.50,000/-. In
order to show the same submissions as being
factually erroneous, learned counsel for the
applicant has drawn the attention of this Court to
the additional documents filed along with
I.A.No.3777/2018, which for the reasons stated
therein, is allowed and the documents taken on
record. Annexure-A/8 is the bank account of Marks
Fetcher Classes which shows that on 29.11.2016
payment of Rs.50,000/- was made from that
account in favour of Shailendra Kumar Pandey who
is the husband of Gunjan Pandey. In short, learned
counsel for the applicant has submitted that the
said amount of Rs.50,000/- was not paid from the
personal account of the applicant herein but from
the account of Marks Fetcher Classes to Shailendra
Kumar Pandey. Lastly, learned counsel for the
applicant has stated that the family members of
the applicant herself have made investments in
New Vistas. In order to establish the same, he has
drawn the attention of this Court to Annexure-A/4
at page-29 which is a memorandum of
 understanding entered into between New Vistas
and Savitri Kushwaha who is the mother of the
applicant herein by which she has invested a sum
of Rs.1,50,000/- in New Vistas. Thereafter on
page-31 is an MOU entered into between Keshav
Singh Kushwaha, the father of the applicant and
New Vistas, whereby the father of the applicant
herein was to deposit a sum of Rs.5,000/- every
month for a period of 12 months at the end of
which he would receive an amount of Rs.70,800/-
from the said company. Thereafter, on page-34 is
a memorandum of understanding entered into
between Mrs.Neelam Chouhan who is the sistere of
the applicant herein whereby she has invested a
sum of Rs.50,000/- with the company New Vistas
and on page-36, is another MOU between mother
of the applicant Mrs.Savitri Kushwaha and the New
Vistas business by which she has invested a sum
of Rs.2,00,000/- in New Vistas. Learned counsel for the applicant, by showing
her investments made by different family members
of the applicant has postulated that had the
applicant possessed the knowledge that the
investment being made in New Vistas part of ponzi
scheme, such investments would not have been
made by the family members of the applicant
herein. In short, he has submitted that the family
members of the applicant themselves are victim in
 this case having invested amount running up to
several lakhs. Learned counsel for the State has also
brought to the notice of this Court that there is a
bar in granting anticipatory bail under section 6 of
Madhya Pradesh Nikshepakon ke Sanrakshan
Adhiniyam within offence made out. This court has
already examined the issue and the bar is only
against the Director of the company. However, in
the instant case, the main accused himself has
stated that he had signed the name of the
applicant herein as a Director behind her back and
there was no involvement or even the knowledge
of the applicant herein that she was being made a
Director and the same happened without her
consent, thus prima-facie, she cannot be deemed
to be a Director of the company. The arguments of
the learned counsel for the State while opposing
the bail application that the case of the applicant
is identical to that of Asima Arora who was also a
Director and was placed under arrest and was in
judicial custody for almost a month and therefore
the applicant should not be granted bail only on
account of her being a lady and also on account of
various 161 statements of other investors like
Shrikant Patel, Geeta Rai and Gunjan Pandey that
they had made payment to the applicant herein.
Undoubtedly, Asima Arora was a Director in this
case and she had been arrested and sent to
 judicial custody for almost 2 months. Merely
because another lady Director had gone to prison
would not be sufficient cause to send the applicant
also to custody. Be that as it may, looking at the facts and
circumstances of the case, specially the fact that
the entire controversy has arisen on account of
the investment schemes that seems to have been
affected party on account of the demonetization
that came in end of the year 2016, as so stated by
the learned counsel for the principal accused
Ravikiran Shrivastava who has been enlarged on
temporary bail upon the assurance that he would
make all endeavour to return the monies back to
the investors, and the documents revealing that
the probabilities of the applicant having possessed
knowledge that the scheme floated by New Vistas
was a ponzi scheme and thereafter she accepted
money in her official capacity as an employee from
the various investors, seem prima-facie improbable
on account of the various investments made by the
family members of the applicant itself. The charge-sheet has been filed in this case
and since temporary bail has been given to the
principal accused to resolve the issue at the
earliest and also looking to the fact of the matter
that family members of the applicant have
invested a large amount of monies with the
company which are also locked up. This Court
 considers it fit in the interest of justice that the
 applicant be given the benefit of anticipatory bail
 Under the circumstances, the application is
 allowed is allowed and it is directed that if the
 applicant is arrested by the Arresting Officer, she
 shall be enlarged on bail upon her furnishing a
 personal bond in the sum of Rs.50,000/-
 (Rupees Fifty Thousand Only) with one solvent
 surety in the like amount to the satisfaction of the
 Arresting Officer. C.C. as per rules. (ATUL SREEDHARAN)
 JUDGE
rk Digitally signed by RAVIKANT KEWAT Date: 2018.03.26 00:03:33 -07'00'