1. This appeal challenges the correctness of order dated 28th April 1995 passed by the Learned Single Judge in Notice of Motion No. 950 of 1995 in suit No. 1055 of 1995 whereby the Learned Judge was pleased to dismiss the notice of motion with costs. 2. The plaintiffs "Aktiebolaget Volvo" field a suit for a passing off action against the defendants and sought an order to restrain the defendants from using the word 'Volvo' or any other deceptively similar word as part of corporate name and/or trading style of the defendants so as to pass of the defendants goods and/or business as that of the plaintiffs. 3. The plaintiffs took out a notice of motion for interim reliefs of similar nature during the pendency of the said suit. 4. The case of the plaintiffs is that the plaintiffs are a public company incorporated under the laws of Sweden and are known as AB Volvo. The plaintiffs were incorporated on 5th May 1915 and commenced business of assembling cars in 1926 and trucks in 1928. Several subsidiaries of the plaintiffs have been incorporated in various countries of the world. However, at the time of disposal of the notice of motion no subsidiary company of the plaintiffs had been incorporated in India. 5. The plaintiff's own controlling shares in various corporations and companies which are called Volvo group of companies and the goods manufactured by Volvo group of companies are sold throughout the world and the plaintiff's largest operating sectors are cars, trucks, The plaintiffs are registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., U.S.A. Besides manufacturing cars, trucks, and buses, the plaintiffs also carry on business of manufacturing marine engineers, aircraft engines, construction industry equipments, etc., and the plaintiffs products are widely advertised. The value of the turnover of the plaintiffs for the year 1991 was at 77,223 million Swedish Kroner, which increased to 83,002 million Swedish Kroner in the year 1992. In the year 1993, it was 1,11,153 million Swedish Kroner. The products of the plaintiffs are knows all over the world and various travellers from India who visit abroad have been seeing the plaintiffs cars, trucks and buses in the countries of Europe, US, Japan, Singapore, UAE and elsewhere. The plaintiffs sponsor various sports events which give exposure to Volvo in electronic and other media. 6. On 10th September, 1979, the plaintiffs applied for and obtained registration of the trade mark 'Volvo' under no. 308314 in respect of the marine engines, aircraft engines, engines for industrial, agriculture and forestry machines and other goods falling in Class VII of the Schedule of the Trade Marks Rules. On 19th May, 1980, the plaintiffs also applied for and obtained registration of trade mark 'Volvo' under No. 3618866 in respect of land vehicles and parts thereof included in class XII of an schedule to the Trade Mark Rules. According to the plaintiffs the word 'Volvo' is an invented word and is distinctive of the plaintiffs and the plaintiffs' "Volvo group of companies" and considering the distinctive character of the plaintiffs mark 'Volvo' and the business activities of the plaintiffs, the word 'Volvo' has acquired distinctiveness and is exclusively associated with the plaintiffs and the Volvo group of companies. 7. The plaintiffs alleged that sometime in the month of December 1994 the Volvo Group of Companies took a decision to set up direct business activities in India either by exporting the goods to India or by setting up a collaboration in India and for that purpose the marketing director of one Volvo Truck Corporation had a meeting with the head of the Corporate Advertiser Services Group of ANZ Grindlays Bank in India for considering the entry into India market. The said Volvo Truck Corporation received a letter dated 7-3-95 from the said Corporate Advertiser Service Group of ANZ Grindlays Bank in India stating that the defendants were planning to go for public issue. A prospectus issued by the defendants was forwarded along with the said letter. After receipt of the said letter the plaintiffs made enquiries and learnt that the defendants had offered shares to the members of the public by issuing a prospectus. The plaintiffs also came an advertisement issued by the defendants describing them as part of Volvo Group. According to the plaintiffs, the claim made by the defendants that the defendants are part of the Volvo Group is totally false and incorrect and that the whole intention of the defendants by adopting the word 'Volvo' as part of their corporate name and trading style was to trade on the reputation of the plaintiffs and Volvo Group of Companies since the plaintiffs have acquired tremendous reputation all over the world including India. It was further alleged that by describing themselves as part of Volvo Group the defendants are deliberately misleading the traders and members of the public in India and since there is a likelihood of deception and confusion being caused by adoption of the word 'Volvo' as part of the corporate name of the defendants, the plaintiffs seek the reliefs prayed for in the plaint. 8. The defendants resisted grant of any interim reliefs. According to the defendants there is no merit in the contention of the plaintiffs. The defendants were incorporated on 19th December 1990 and started their manufacturing activities some-time in the year 1991. It was contended that there is gross delay on the part of the plaintiffs in approaching the court for grant of equitable reliefs. It was also contended that the plaintiffs had the knowledge about the word 'Volvo' being part of corporate name and/or trading style of the defendants but acquiesced in the defendants' adopting word 'Volvo' as part of their corporate name and/or trading style and as such, cannot now object to the same being part of corporate name of the defendants. The plaintiffs were aware that the company by name Volvo Terry industries Ltd. had come out with a public issue of 40 lacs equity shares of Rs. 10/- each in the year 1992 which public issue was duly advertised. The shares of the said company are duly listed on the Bombay Stock Exchange and are quoted regularly in news papers including Economic Times. No action was taken by the plaintiffs against the said Volvo Terry Industries Ltd. As such the plaintiffs had acquiesced in defendants' adopting the word 'Volvo' as part of their corporate name. It was further contended that the plaintiffs do not enjoy any reputation in the Indian market and the sales of plaintiffs' product in India are absolutely insignificant. The defendants then contended that the activities and products of the plaintiffs and defendants being different and distinct there is no question of the defendants passing off their products as the products of the plaintiffs and there is no likelihood of any deception or confusion amongst the traders and/or customers as alleged by the plaintiffs or otherwise. The largest operating sectors of the plaintiffs are cars and trucks and also have operations in similar other sectors like transport equipment industry such as buses, marine and industrial engines and aircraft and space engines. The defendants on the other hand are involved in the manufacture of mild steel ingots which is an intermediary product and used production to torsteel which is used for construction purpose. The products of the defendants are, therefore, clearly different and distinct from those of the plaintiffs. The class of purchasers of the plaintiffs' products and those of the defendants are different and even the end use of the respective of the plaintiffs and the defendants being different, the question of the defendants passing their product as those of the plaintiffs does not arise. It was further contended that the word 'Volvo' is not an invented word of the plaintiffs and it being a Latin word meaning thereby, 're-rolling', 'to roll up', 'to roll together' and 'form by rolling' and since defendants' products were ultimately to be used for rolling the word 'Volvo' was selected by the defendants as part of their corporate name which was approved by the Registrar of Companies, Gujarat. The defendants denied that the word 'Volvo' has been adopted as part of their corporate name to mislead the customers of the plaintiffs or trade on alleged reputation of the plaintiffs. The actual purchasers of the defendants products are knowledgeable persons and/or experts in their respective fields and not laymen. It was contended that the defendants were earlier incorporated as a private limited company and as the business prospered, it was converted into a public limited company on 2nd October 1993. In the year 1994 a decision was taken by the Board of the Directors of the defendants to have a public issue inter alia to finance its expansion projects, the total cost whereof was estimated at Rs. 31 crores and accordingly the defendants came out with a public issue of Rs. 10.43 crores which opened on 7-3-1995 and was closed on 10-3-1995. The said public issue was over-subcribed by more than 5 times and members of public have reposed confidence in the defendants. The shares are required to be allotted in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI). The action of the plaintiffs in filling the present suit at this belated stage is by way of blackmail action after closure of the said public issue and before and allotment of the shares to the public. The defendants contended that in the advertisement issued by the defendants no reference has been made as to the alleged association of the defendants with the plaintiffs and no reference has also been made as to the activity of the plaintiffs in automative industry. However, since the promoters of the defendants consist of members of families of Chhatriya,, Makwana, Kalaniya, all Gujarat based and since each of the said families is engaged in several industries, they have been referred in the advertisement as Volvo group. Lastly it was contended that the balance of convenience is in favour of the defendants and plaintiffs should not be granted any interim reliefs. 9. Before the learned Single Judge, the learned counsel for the plaintiffs contended that existence of common field of activity is not a condition precedent for grant of relief in a passing off action. Originally it was product to product. It has under-gone a change. The focus has now shifted from the external objective test of making a comparison between of parties to state of mind of the public in deciding whether there is probability of confusion or deception. It was submitted that some connection is required to be established in the product of the defendants with those of the plaintiffs It was submitted that the probability of confusion depends upon (i) the nature of mark or name of the plaintiffs; (ii) the extent of reputation in that mark or name acquired by the plaintiffs; and (iii) closeness of the defendants' mark or name with that of the plaintiffs. It was contended that if the mark or name is a fancy or invented word, even the small reputation will suffice. However, if the mark or name has a descriptive flavour, large reputation is needed by the plaintiffs. In the facts and circumstances of the case, the counsel for the plaintiffs submitted that the plaintiffs' mark 'volvo' is an invented one and has acquired distinctiveness of being associated with the plaintiffs and plaintiffs' Volvo Group of Companies and the defendants by adopting the word 'volvo' as part of their corporate name are deliberately misleading the traders and members of the public by causing deception and confusion and passing off their product as those of the plaintiffs. It was submitted that the plaintiffs have acquired reputation in India and by adopting the word 'volvo' as part of their corporate name the the defendants are trading on 'plaintiffs' reputation to pass off their goods as those of the plaintiffs. It was submitted that the plaintiffs have acquired reputation in India; that the transborder reputation has been recognised by the court in India and there is no delay in approaching the court nor the plaintiffs have acquiesced in the action of the defendants and the balance of convenience is also in favour of the plaintiffs. 10. The learned counsel for the defendants submitted that the goodwill depends on reputation and relate to particular type of good or business. The existence of common field of activity still continues to be a primary requirement. It was submitted that there cannot be any monopoly in the use of a trade mark. The vital element in each case is the probability of deception which may depend on a number of matters as well as the question of similarity of the marks of the get up. It was submitted that the nature of goods products respectively by the plaintiffs and the defendants or the respective business carried on by them being different there is no likelihood of any deception or confusion being caused amongst the trader or customers of the plaintiffs by reason of the defendants adopting the word 'Volvo' as part of their corporate name. The learned counsel emphathetically submitted that in the facts and circumstances of the case the suit field is in the nature of blackmail action. No actionable loss or damage to the alleged reputation of the plaintiffs is shown or established to have been even the balance of convenience is favour of the defendants. 11. The learned Single Judge has observed that the at the interlocutory stage, the main question which arises for determination is whether prima facie the dependents are quality of passing off their product as that of the plaintiffs so as to entitle the plaintiffs to grant of interim relief as prayed for. It was made clear by the learned counsel for the plaintiffs that the grievance in the suit relates only to action in passing off. 12. The learned Judge held that since on merits; prima facie it appears that the defendants are not guilty of passing off their products as those of the plaintiffs, the questions pertaining to gross delay on the part of the plaintiffs in approaching the court for grant of interim reliefs of injunction and acquiescence on the part of the plaintiffs in allowing the defendants to use the word 'volvo' as part of their corporate name need not be considered at that stage. After discussing the vital contentions and the material on records the Judge held that it is not possible to conclude at this prima facie stage that the plaintiffs enjoy trans-borde reputation. The learned Judge held that even if it is assumed that the plaintiffs enjoy transborder reputation, it is required to be considered as to whether by season of the word 'volvo' being part of the corporate name of the defendants the plaintiffs have suffered or are really likely to suffer substantial damage to their property in goodwill though the products of the defendants are different, dissimilar and distinct from the products of the plaintiffs so as to grant the relief to the plaintiffs in the present application. Then the learned Judge observed that the defendants' present line of manufacture is of intermediate products like M.S. Ingots which are raw materials used by rerolling mills for production of torsteel and is confined to only the manufacture of angles, channel and torsteel bars. These items are used in the construction industry. The defendants proposed items of manufacture are stainless steel ingots which are also raw materials for stainless steel products whereas the plaintiffs' activities and/or products are in the transport vehicle field which comprise of cars, trucks, buses, marine and industrial engines, and aircraft engines. The learned Judge felt that the plaintiffs have reserved the name "Volvo" only for their automotive products and for no other products. The plaintiffs and the defendants are engaged in totally different and dissimilar fields of activity and lines of business. The learned Judge felt that the word 'volvo' particularly in India is not associated with the plaintiffs in their alleged operations in any other sector of the transport or equipment industry such as buses, marine and industry engines, or aircraft or space engines. The Judge held that no common field of activity exists between the plaintiffs and the defendants so as to pass off the defendants' products as that of plaintiffs. 13. The learned Judge thereafter considered several authorities cited before him. The Learned Judge reproduced the five factors stated by Lord Justice Diplock case popularly known as 'Advocate' case. Then the Learned Judge referred to 'Lego's' case. The learned Judge held that the goodwill as the subject of particularly right is incapable of subsisting by itself. It has no independent existence apart from the business to which it is attached. It is local in character and divisible. If the business is carried in several countries a separate goodwill attaches to it in each. In the present case on the basis of the facts prima facie the learned Judge was not prepared to say the plaintiffs have been even an arguable case on goodwill. The Learned Judge held that prima facie it has not been proved that the acts of the defendants amount to a misrepresentation so as to give cause to the plaintiffs to institute passing off action against the defendants. It has not been established by the plaintiffs as required to be established, that there is a real risk that a substantial number of persons among the relevant section of the public will in facts believe that there is a business connection between the plaintiffs and the defendants. The Learned Judge then referred to the decision of this court and other several decisions of different courts. The Learned Judge held that neither the mark 'volvo' is a fancy name nor can it be said that it is associated with the defendants' name without any object, the object being to denote the nature of activities of the defendants. The explanation given by the defendants for adopting the word 'volvo' as part of their corporate name is plausible. The Learned Judge held that in his view since the products of the plaintiffs are different and absolutely dissimilar to the products of the defendants and the class of customers for both these products are also different, merely by use of the word 'Volvo' as part of the corporate name of the defendants there is no possibility of any deception and/or confusion being caused amongst the customers and/or traders. The Learned Judge held that not a single instance of confusion on deception has been pointed out or established by the plaintiffs. The plaintiffs failed to established even prima facie that the adoption of the word 'volvo' in the corporate name of the defendants is calculated to deceive or confuse the trade or public into believing that of the plaintiffs. The Learned Judge held that even if it assumed that the plaintiffs have acquired goodwill in India in respect of the products of the plaintiffs, the goodwill acquired is not wide enough to extent to the goods such as intermediary products manufactured by the defendants. Referring to the sequence of events and the interim orders, the learned Judge felt it reflects badly on the conduct and the motive of the plaintiffs in instituting the present suit. The Learned Judge felt that the totality of circumstances show the balance of convenience is in favour of the defendants. The aforesaid order of the Learned Judge is impugned in this appeal. 14. Shri Tulzapurkar, the learned counsel for the appellants reiterated all the submission made on behalf of the plaintiffs before the trial court. He contended that it is significant that the defendants have not claimed 'Volvo' as trade mark or applied for registration till date. Shri Tulzapurkar further contended that word 'Volvo' is in the nature of fancy word and has assumed distinctiveness. Latin is a dead and obscure language and hardly any one in India knows Latin : 'Volvo' has no meaning to the general public in India. Volvo has acquired a secondary meaning qua the Volvo Group. It signifies the connection with the international Volvo Group. Shri Tulzapurkar contended that the defendants have advertised and represented themselves as belonging to "Volvo Group" and building on the strength of the "Volvo Group". Shri Tulzapurkar pointed out that all other concerns of the promoters of the defendants company are either surname-based or of Indian name-based or location-based and these companies have now where been referred to as Volvo Group. There is no basis why Chhatriya, Makwana and Kalaniya families should be known as a Volvo Group. Shri Tulzapurkar further contended that looking to several products of the plaintiffs and the Group of companies and looking to the main object as represented in the prospectus for the issue of the defendants, it is clear that there is some overlapping of common field of activity. Shri Tulzapurkar, with reference to the material on record, contended that in view of the information explosion and otherwise also the plaintiffs enjoy presence and goodwill and reputation in India in relation to their mark 'Volvo' Referring to the additional evidence by way of affidavits field in appeal Shri Tulzapurkar pointed out that the plaintiffs have now established about six 100% subsidiaries in India to manufacturing business in India. Foreign Investment Promotion Board of India has granted the required permission in February 1996. Volvo India Pvt. Ltd. has signed the Memorandum of Understanding with the State of Karnataka for the manufacture of heavy duty state of the art trucks in India. They have also entered into an agreement on 22-1-1997 with the Karnataka Industrial Area Development Board for acquiring a plot of land admeasuring 125 acres for construction of their factory near Bangalore. The Volvo India Pvt. Ltd. proposes to make a total investment of approximately US dollars 300 millions in India i.e. Rs. 1072.75 crores, with an initial investment upto US Dollars 60 million (approximately Rs. 214.5 crores) in the first phase of its manufacturing facility. Several news items have appeared in several Indian newspapers regarding the activities of the Volvo Group of Companies in India. Shri Tulzapurkar submitted that the defendants are comers and will suffer no worthwhile prejudice if they were to substitute 'Volvo' by any other world in their corporate name which is not deceptively similar to that of word famous mark 'Volvo'. 15. Shri Tulzapurkar has challenged several finding of the Learned Judge to which findings we have made specific reference in the earlier part of our judgment. In short, Shri Tulzapurkar submitted that the word 'Volvo' is distinct and a fancy word, the plaintiffs have worldwide reputation and goodwill; that the plaintiffs have prima facie proved that they enjoy reputation and goodwill and the word 'Volvo' is associated with the plaintiffs. Shri Tulzapurkar submitted that in the facts and circumstances of the case prima facie case has been made out by the plaintiffs of passing off action, in that there is misrepresentation by the defendants, that they are some way connected or associated with the plaintiffs which would amount to dilution or debasement of the reputation and goodwill of the word 'Volvo' which connects to the plaintiffs as the manufacturer or source of production. Shri Tulzapurkar further contended that the explanation given by the defendants for adoption of the word 'Volvo' is on the face of it absurd and if that be so, the false explanation itself will go a long way in accepting the case of the plaintiffs. Shri Tulzapurkar contended that there is absolutely no delay or acquiescence on the part of the plaintiffs. In support of his several contentions Shri Tulzapurkar cited several authorities to which we will have occasion to refer to hereinafter. 16. Shri Devetri, learned counsel for the respondent-defendants on the other hand reiterated all the submission made before the learned Single Judge. He submitted that all the finding recorded by the Learned Single Judge are absolutely correct and proper. Shri Devetri contended that this court should appreciate that is an appeal against an interlocutory and discretionary order and therefore, merely because the appeal court takes a different view the order should not be disturbed. Shri Devetri also stated that the order of the Learned Single Judge and the various findings are absolutely correct and justified on the basis of the records of the case. Shri Devetri emphasized that there cannot be monopoly in the use of trade mark and that common field of activity is still a very relevant consideration. Referring to the several documents on records Shri Devetri submitted that the plaintiffs are essentially involved in transport and manufacturing of cars, trucks and buses. About 87% of the business of the plaintiffs relate to cars and buses. The material on record shows that the main activity or principle field of activity of th plaintiffs is cars and at best transport whilst the product of the defendants is mild steel ingots. As such the products of the plaintiffs and the defendants are absolutely different, class of customers is different, and trade channels through which the products are booked are also different. Shri Devetri, therefore, submitted that the material does not show any likelihood of confusion at all. Shri Devetri contended that the defendants were in the field of manufacturing since 1991 and hence it was possible if it was so, to adduce evidence of actual confusion. Shri Devetri also contended that even assuming that the plaintiffs have reputation and good-will in India it must be restricted to the field of automobiles and that too luxurious cars. No such instances have been proved. Even advertisements in the magazines are only in respect of cars. Shri Devetri stated that the material on record does not establish that 'Volvo' has become a household name or distinctive in India. Shri Devetri submitted that the relevant date for consideration in a passing off action would be a date on which the defendants commenced their activities which in his submission would be 1991. Shri Devetri submitted that 'Volvo' is not a fancy word, but is a Latin word having specific meaning. Shri Devetri contended that 7 years have passed since the use of the word 'Volvo' by the defendants and it is not shown that the plaintiffs have suffered any dilution in their reputation or goodwill qua their mark 'Volvo' Shri Devetri further contended that the defendants have started production since 1991, their turnover in 1993-94 was 19 crores and during 1994-95 it was 22 crores and if they are compelled to change their corporate name it would result in irreparable loss. He submitted that even the balance of conveniences is in favour of the defendants. Shri Devetri then contended that the defendants were incorporated in 1990, they commenced production in 1991, they became public limited company in 1993. On 7-3-1995 a public issue was released. On 10-3-1995 the issue was closed, which was oversubscribed by five times. The defendants under law, were obliged to issue shares on 10-5-1995. On 29-3-1995 the plaintiffs obtained ad-interim injunction restraining issuance of the shares. The ad interim order was extended to 10-4-1995 defendants made a statement that till the disposal of the motion shares will not be allotted and as such filing of the suit is clearly mala fide and with ulterior motive. 17. As stated earlier both the learned counsel have cited several authorities in supports of their respective contentions, several of them being common, i.e. cited by both sides. Both counsel have also referred to passages from the Law of Passing off by Christopher Wadlow, Kerly's Law of Trade Mark and Trade names. Twelfth edition, McCarthy on Trade Marks and Unfair Competition 1994 3rd edition Vol. I and K. S. Shavaksha on the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958 2nd edition of 1974. 18. In the matter Erven Warnink B. V. v. J. Townend & Sons (Hull) Ltd. (1980 RPC 31), which is known as Advocate's case, after referring to the development of low regarding unfair trade as actionable wrong and various English cases in that behalf, Lord Justice Diplock observed as under : In the very case Lord Justice Fraser quoted a passage from the speech of Lord Justice Diplock in the matter of Star Industrial Co. Ltd. v. Yap Kwee Kor ((1976) FSR 256), which is as under : Therefore it was observed that it is essential for the plaintiffs in passing off action to show atleast five factors which are as under : 19. In the matter of Parker Knoll Limited v. Knoll International Ltd. (1962 RPC 265), Lord Morris stated a few propositions which are as under : 20. In support of his contention that the transborder reputation is recognised by Indian courts and that the actual sale is not necessary for such a goodwill and reputation, Shri Tulzapurkar cited a decision of the Division Bench of this court in the matter of Kamal Trading Co. and other v. Gillette U.K. Ltd. (1988 (Jan.) IPLR 134), where in at page 143 the division bench has observed as under : 21. Then a reference was made to the decision of the single Judge of Delhi High Court in the matter of Whirpool Corporation and another v. N. R. Dongre and Others (1995 IPLR 21), where in paragraph 17, after referring to several cases the Learned Judge observed as under : This decision of the division bench was confirmed by the Apex Court in the decision reported in 1996 PTC (16) 583. 22. Shri Tulzapurkar then referred to the decision of the division bench of the High Court of Madras in the matter of Haw Par Bros. International Ltd. v. Tiger Balm Co. (P) Ltd. & Others (1996 PTC 311), wherein in paragraph 115 of the judgment the division bench expressed it disagreement on the question of transborder reputation with the decision of the Delhi High Court in Whirlpool Corporation 's case (supra) and the decision of the Bombay High Court in Kamal Trading Co. (supra). 23. Regarding common field of activity, both sides have cited several judgments. First one is in the matter of Derek McCulloch v. Lewis A May (Produce) Distributors) Ltd. (65 RPC 58), which is also known as Uncle Mac case. In the said case, Mr. Justice Wynn Parry observed as under : 24. However in the matter of Henderson and another v. Radio Corporation Pty. Ltd. (1969 RPC 218), the Full Bench of the High Court of South Wales in appeal observed as under : (at pages 233 and 234). 25. In the matter of Kirloskar Diesel Recon Pvt. Ltd. and another v. Kirloskar Proprietary Ltd. and others , the learned Single Judge of this court in paragraph 13 observed that with the passage of time, law on requirement of common field of activity in a passing off action has radical changed. He has further observed that the real question in each case is whether there is as a result of misrepresentation a real likelihood of confusion or deception of the public and consequent damage to the plaintiff. In paragraph 14, the Learned Judge has observed as under : 26. Both the sides have heavily relied upon certain observations in the case of Lego System Aktieselskab and another v. Lego M. Lemelstrich Ltd. (FSR (1983) 155). In the said case, on pages 185 of 186 it is observed as under : Again on pages 186 of 1987, it is observed as under : On page 196 it was observed as under : 27. In support of his submission that some trade connection is sufficient in order to succeed in passing off action, Shri Tulzapurkar relied upon the decision of the Supreme Court in the matter of Corn Products Refining Co. v. Shangrila Food Products Ltd. . In the said case the respondent was a manufacturer of biscuits and applied for registration of a mark Glucovita in respect of biscuits manufactured by it. The appellants had earlier registered the mark "Glucovita" and objected to the registration of mark "Gluvita" in respect of the biscuit manufactured by the appellants. In paragraphs 19 and 20 the Apex Court has observed as under : 28. In the matter of Bajaj Electrical Ltd. v. Metals & Allied Products Bombay and another (1988 Bombay 167), the plaintiffs had been manufacturing and marketing electrical kitchen appliances, kitchen wares and domestic appliances for a number of years and had great reputation operating all over India known as "Bajaj Groups". The defendant Metals & Allied Products was a partnership firm and was manufacturing kitchen appliances such as hot-pot, hot carrier, ice box, hot lunch box etc. It was contended that the goods manufactured by the plaintiffs and the defendants are totally different and, therefore, there is no cause or apprehension that the use of the word "Bajaj" is likely to cause deception or confusion in the mind of the public. The Court held that mere fact that the articles manufactured by the contesting parties are different in nature is no answer to the claim that the defendants were guilty of passing off. 29. A reference was also made to a decision of the High Court of Justice - Chancery Division in the matter of Treasure Cot Co. Ltd. v. Hamley Bros. Ltd. (67 RPC 89). The plaintiffs therein before was had some small business in toys. No records were produced by the court was told that the sale of toys presented perhaps 3 per cent of the turnover. The plaintiffs disclaimed any particular reputation in this field though it appeared on the evidence to be known to their customers that they did sell toys. On the basis of the material it was found that no actual case of deception is proved but the question is whether one is likely. Though the plaintiffs had no particular reputation in connection with toys, it was held possible for a trader to obtain protection in a field outside that in which his name is known if the proper inference to draw is that the use of that name in the new connection will mislead the public. It was held that the plaintiffs have acquired a very wide reputation in connection with children's requirements and that this was based on their "Treasure Cot" which is not only the name by which the company is known but its primary produce and the articles upon which the whole business has been built. It would not, therefore, be surprising to find that those who know of the babies' "Treasure Cot" as the plaintiffs produce would assume that a miniature version of it suitable for a doll was also something for which the plaintiffs were responsible and that is indeed what the plaintiffs set out to prove. 30. A reference was also made to a famous case in the matter of The Eastman Photographic Materials Company Ltd. and another v. The John Griffiths Cycle Corporation Ltd. and the Kodak Cycle Company Ltd. (Kodak case) (15 RPC 105). It was held that the word "Kodak" had become identified with the Eastman Photographic Materials Co. and with their goods, that the evidence showed a close connection between the bicycle and photographic traders. 31. In the case of British Broadcasting Corporation v. Talbot Motor Company Ltd. (1981 FSR 228), in an action for passing off the BBC sought interlocutory relief to restrain the use of the name CARFAX in relation to motor vehicle fittings. Prior to the events which led to this action, the BBC had been experimenting with a traffic information system capable of being received in a vehicle by a special or adapted car radio. The system had not yet been put into operation. BBC gave evidence that considerable prepatory work had been carried out with this in view. There was evidence that the BBC's scheme had received publicity on the television, in the trade press and at the 1980 Motor Show. The defendants, who were motor vehicle manufacturer, wished to use the name CARFAX in relation to a vehicle spare parts service. They had expended much money and effort in prepatory work with a view to launching the scheme in January 1981. During the course of this prepatory work, the defendants had become aware of the BBC's activities in relation to the word CARFAX as a result of a trade mark search and having look into the matter, concluded that there would be conflict between the parties provided they, the defendants did not use the name in relation to car radios. When the BBC learned of the plaintiff's activities they complained and having received no reply satisfactory to them, launched this motion. At the outset, the defendants offered an undertaking not to sell radio receivers. They asserted that no action in passing off lay since there was not prospect of trade being taken from the BBC by the defendants and that the BBC would not be damaged in any reputation they have by any confusions with the defendants. The BBC asserted that if the defendants' use of the name CARFAX were not enjoined, their scheme would be dead. It was not in issue that the decision on motion would have a serious and immediate effect on one side or the other. It was held, granting interlocutory relief; 1) Since the outcome of this motion might prove decisive one way or the other, it was proper in considering the balance of convenience to estimate the plaintiffs' prospects of success at full trial. 2) There was ample evidence that a significant part of the public knew about the name CARFAX as distinctive of the BBC's system. 3) The fact that the scheme had not yet been launched did not prevent the BBC from having built up goodwill in it which was entitled to protection. 4) The dangers of confusion were real. Both schemes were concerned essentially with motor vehicles and the evidence showed what might be called a natural expectations that car radios would be included in a vehicle spare parts service. 5) In passing off, it is the injury to the goodwill rather than the precise method of inflicting that injury that matters. 6) The prospects of success at trial must be judged as at the date of the interlocutory application. 7) Both the balance of convenience and preservation of the status quo favoured granting interlocutory relief." On page 234 it was observed as under : On page 236, it was observed as under : 32. In the case of L.R.C. International Limited and another v. Lilla Edets Sales Company Ltd. (1973 RPC 560), the facts were as under : 33. In the matter of Daimler Benz Aktoegesellschaft and another v. Hybo Hindustan (AIR 1994 Delhi), the plaintiffs Benx sought injunction against the defendants using the name "Benz" for the production like undergarments. It was held as under : 34. In the matter of Alfred Dunhill Limited and another v. Synoptic S.A. and another (1979 FSR 337), the plaintiffs A.D. Ltd. had for many years carried on business in the United Kingdom and, through various subsidiary and associated companies, throughout the world in the sale of tobacco products, smokers' requisite and a wide range of luxury goods. Their entire business had been conducted under the name and trade mark "Dunhill" and the evidence showed that they were widely known as "Dunhill of London". They had not sold sunglasses or spectacle frames in the United Kingdom, though their American subsidiary had made small sales of sunglasses in the USA. They were, however, involved in negotiation with a view to entering the market. The first defendant, S.S.A. a Swiss company, began to advertise and sell sunglasses and spectacle frames under the trademark "CD Christopher Dunhill-London", pursuant to an agreement with the second defendant, C.D. who was the great grandson of the founder and son of the present chairman of A.D. Ltd. By the agreement C.D. in consideration of large royalties, licensed S.S.A. to use his name in that manner and undertook to act as consultant, in relation to the range of sunglasses and spectacle frames to be sold by S.S.A. It was admitted that he had no particular expertise in that field but the defendants argued that he was entitled to use his own name to further his own commercial aims and ambitions. The plaintiffs moved for a world wide interlocutory injunction but at the hearing restricted the relief sought to certain specified countries. Whitford J. held that the evidence of the plaintiffs' reputation was "meagre", but was not prepared to hold that the plaintiffs' had no reasonable prospect of success in their claim for a permanent injunction at the trial. He refused interlocutory relief on the ground that the plaintiffs' would not suffer significant damage pending the trial and the grant of injunction would be a serious impediment to the defendants' operation. He further stated that, even if an injunction had been granted, he would not have granted it in respect of any countries other than United Kingdom. The plaintiffs' appeal to the court of Appeal, and argue that, this being a plain case of deliberate attempt by the defendants to "cash in" on the plaintiffs reputation and there being in the evidence adduced no credible dispute on the primary facts, the court was entitled within the principles laid down by the House of Lords in American Cynamid v. Ethicon, to consider the merit's of the plaintiffs case, and should not hesitate to stop by injunction a blatant fraud. They further argued that damages would be an inadequate remedy to the plaintiffs if an injunction were refused. Upon further evidence which was admitted in the court of Appeals the plaintiffs argued that the harm which an injunction would cause to the defendants would be much less that the harm which the plaintiffs would suffer if the defendants activities were allowed to continue pending the trial. Allowing the appeal it was held as under : The appeal court also observed on page 362 that "with very great respect to the learned Judge the judgment does not seem to deal with the point that it was the alleged damage to the overall Dunhill reputation which was in issue and not damage to particular classes of goods which Dunhill were presently involved in selling". 35. The division bench of the Calcutta High Court in the matter of Rustom Ali Molla and other v. Bata Shoe Co. Ltd. , in paragraph 9 thereof held as under : It is relevant to notice that in paragraph 16 the division bench expressly observed that "This is an action of passing off goods and not any business or business name. In fact the force of the observations in The Clock Ltd. v. The Clock House Hotel Ltd. ((1936) 53 RPC 269) was not doubted, which is as under : The single Judge of the Allahabad High Court on the other had in the matter of Bata India Ltd. v. M/s. Pyare Lal & Co. Meerut city and others took a different view. In paragraphs, 27, 29 and 30 respectively, it was observed as under : At this stage it may be relevant to notice that in the Book entitled " The Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958 , 2nd Edition (1974) by K. S. Shavaksha page 427 (Appendix IX), with reference to a division bench judgment of Calcutta High Court in the case of Rustom Ali Molla v. Bata Shoe Co. , it was observed by the learned author that passing of is entirely a question of fact depending upon the nature and reputation of the trade mark. It is further noted therein that in fact the plaintiffs appealed to the Supreme Court and by consent the above decision was set aside and interim injunction was granted for one month during which period the District Court heard the case and in a reasoned judgment granted the injunction prayed. From that judgment there was no appeal. 36. A reference was also made to a decision of the Learned Single Judge in the matter of Indian Aluminium Co. Ltd. v. Indals (Agencies) Pvt. Ltd. (1991 (4) BCR 373) as well as to an unreported judgment dated 27-11-1990 of the Learned Single Judge of this court in the matter of Alkem Laboratories Pvt. Ltd. v. Alchem (India) Ltd. in notice of motion No. 3028 of 1998 in suit No. 3198 of 1988, in which judgment after referring to several cases and the legal principles enunciated in the authoritative books on the subject, the learned Judge in paragraph 9 observed that at the interlocutory stage the court must be satisfied on an assessment of all available material, at least prima facie, that there has been or there is likely to be imminent danger to the goodwill of the plaintiffs before an injunction can issue. In the facts of the case before him the learned Judge was not satisfied that the injunction needs to be issued as in the opinion of the learned Judge on the basis of the material on record the goods manufactured by the defendants were totally different and fall in a different class; the manner of ordering the goods i different; the trade channel of distribution are wholly distinct and the type of customers who ask for the goods of the defendants is different from the type of customers who ask for the plaintiffs goods. 37. A reference was also made to the judgment of the Learned Single Judge in the matter of Sony Kabushiki Kaisha v. Shamrao Maskar and others . The question therein was whether the registration of a trade mark "SONY" for Nail Polish" is likely to deceive or cause of confusion in minds of customers of electronic goods bearing trade mark "Sony". It was held as under : 38. In support of submission that once the explanation offered by the defendants for adopting the word "Volvo" is held to the unacceptable and illusory or dishonest, then probability of deception and the damage to the plaintiffs will have to be accepted automatically, reliance was placed on Schering Corporation and others v. Kilitch Co. (Pharma) Pvt. Ltd. (1994(1) IPLR 1) The division bench of this court was dealing with a trade mark "QUADRIDERM" a stylised word, for skin ointment, sold in tubes and cartons of distinctive features. The defendants began using the trade mark CORI-DERM for sale of their tubes of skin ointment in similar cartons. It was held that mere lapse of time does not amount to latches and by reason of such lapse of time the defendants have not altered their position nor have any equities come into existence which entitle the defendants to protection. It was observed in the said judgment that the Bench had no hesitation in rejecting the explanation given by the defendants for adoption of the word and it was further held that the fact that false explanation was sought to be given must have relevance on the question of intention of the defendants and whether interim relief is required to be granted. It was also held that once it is established that there is visual and phonetic similarity, and that the defendant's adoption of the trade mark is not honest or genuine then the consideration of any plea as to delay must on the consideration whether there has been such delay in the matter as has led the defendants to assume that the plaintiffs have given up their contention and/or whereby the defendants have altered their position so that it would be inequitable to grant interim relief to stop them from using the trade mark until the suit is decided. 39. Shri Tulzapurkar also referred to a judgment of the Learned Single Judge of the Delhi high Court in the matter of Ciba Geigy Ltd. v. Crosslands Research Laboratories Ltd. (1996 PTC (16)), wherein in paragraph 29 it is observed as under : Shri Tulzapurkar also cited a judgment of the learned Single Judge of this court dated 12-4-1989 in notice of motion No. 2613 of 1987 in suit No. 2899 of 1987 wherein the Learned Judge observed as under : Shri Tulzapurkar also pointed out that the said order of the Learned Single Judge was confirmed by the Division Bench by its order dated 23-6-1989 in appeal No. 552 of 1989. 40. On the powers of the appeal court in an appeal against interlocutory and discretionary order Shri Tulzapurkar relied upon the decision the Privy Council in the matter of Evans v. Bartlam (1934 appeal Cases 473), wherein it was observed as under : 41. Shri Tulzapurkar also relied upon the decision of the court of Appeal in the matter of Harrods Limited v. Harrodian School Limited (1996 RPC 697). At page 706 of the said judgment it is observed as under : 42. On the question of acquiescence Shri Tulzapurkar relied upon a decision of the Chancery Division in the matter of Willmott v. Barber (15 Chancery Divn. at page 96). On pages 105 and 106 of the said decision it is observed as under : 43. Shri Tulzapurkar also relied upon judgment of the Apex Court in the matter of M/s. Power Control Appliances & Others v. M/s. Sumeet Machines Pvt. Ltd. (Judgments Today 1994(2) Sec. 70). In paragraph 29 of the said judgment it is observed as under : 44. On the point of delay Shri Tulzapurkar also replied upon a decision of the Learned Single Judge of the Delhi High Court in the matter of M/s. Hindustan Pencils Pvt. Ltd. v. M/s. India Stationery Products Co. & Another . In the said case it was observed as under : 45. Shri Tulzapurkar also submitted that the law on trade marks and passing off is developing na din that behalf he referred to the Trade Mark Bill of 1993 and particularly to explanation II to section 11(4) which states that "In determining whether a trade mark is well known, account shall be taken of the knowledge of that trade mark in the relevant section of the public including knowledge in India obtained as a result of promotion of the trade mark". Shri Tulzapurkar submitted that though this is merely a Bill, it indicated the trend of the Legislature and the court should normally go along with the trend of the Legislatures in such matters. 46. Shri Tulzapurkar referred to McCarthy on Trade Marks and Unfair Competition, 1994 3rd Edition Volume I and the following passage. The fact that only lexicographers or devotees of antiquity may recognize the descriptive feature of a mark is irrelevant to the critical enquiry of the effect of the term upon a substantial segment of prospective purchasers. For example the mark RELECHRON for electric clocks was derived from Greek roots meaning 'time from a distance'. But only Greek scholars would so recognize this subtle description. The court said that the mark TELECHRON was merely a 'coined word with a penumbra of suggestion' and that even translation from a Greek conveys as idea too imprecise as to be labelled 'descriptive'. Similarly, the mark L'ORIGAN was held nondescriptive for perfume even though there is an old English word 'origan' meaning a 'wild majoram' flower. Obviously only botanists would be likely to be aware of such a connotation". (2) The Doctrine of Foreign Equivalents (a) Applying the Doctrine 
 

Under the 'doctrine of foreign equivalents', foreign words are translated into English and then tested for descriptiveness or genericness. However, the 'doctrine of foreign equivalents' is not an absolute rule, for it does not mean that words from dead or obscure languages are to be literally translated into English for descriptive purposes. The test is whether, to those American buyers familiar with the foreign language, the word would have a descriptive connotation. Foreign words from dead languages such as Classical Greek, or from obscure languages such those of the Hottentots or Patagonisans might be so unfamiliar to any segment of the American buying-public that they should not be translated into English for descriptive purposes. However, words from modern languages such as Italian, French, Spanish, German, Hungarian, Polish etc. will be tested for descriptiveness by seeing whether the foreign word would be descriptive to that segment of the purchasing public which is familiar with that language." The learned Author has commented as under : 47. Shri Tulzapurkar also referred to the Law of Passing Off 1995 edition by Christopher Wadlow. On page 357 under the title "Establishing Distinctiveness', it is observed that "A mark can only become distinctive by user, but there is no rule of law as to what kind or amount of user is necessary or sufficient to found the action. What is in issue is whether there has been a material misrepresentation which in turn depends on whether the mark has become distinctive to a sufficient proportion of the public. In general the plaintiff's case will be strengthened by use which has lasted a ling time and been on a large scale, but neither is essential". In the same book under heading "Descriptive and Generic terms" it is observed as under : 48. Shri Tulzapurkar also referred to Kerly's law of Trade Marks and Trade Names twelfth edition. Under the heading "The action for passing off" - 16.02 definition; it is stated as under : In regard to the field of activity Shri Tulzapurkar brought to our notice the observations on page 351 of Kerly's Law of Trade Marks and Trade Marks 12th Edition, which are as under : 49. Shri Tulzapurkar also relied upon the passage 392 - "16.52 Name suggesting a branch or agency - If the name of the defendant company is one which is calculated to lead to the belief that it is an agency, branch or department of the plaintiff company, an injunction will be granted unless, of course, what is suggested is true." Shri Tulzapurkar also pointed out following passage on page 408 : The existence of unexpected and unexplained similarities, between the goods of the defendant and those of the plaintiff or of similarities which have been modified by colourable differences or by differences and distinctions so arranged as to escape notice, the use by the defendant of descriptions, which as applied to himself or his own trade are inaccurate, and by reason of their inaccuracy approach more nearly to the proper description of the plaintiff, and the gradual approximation of the defendant's names, get up or description to those of the plaintiff are all obvious badges of fraudulent intention frequently recurring in the cases which come before the court." 50. Shri Devetri for the respondent cited a decision of the Privy Council , wherein it was observed as under : 51. Shri Devetri very heavily relied upon the decision of the Court of appeal in the matter of Harrods Limited (supra). He emphasized that in the judgment it was specifically mentioned that the word "Harrods" could properly be described as a house-hold name not only in this country but in many parts of the world. Shri Devetri also specifically brought to our notice the following passages on pages 702, 711, 713, 714 and 715 in the said judgment : Whether the parties are not in competition with each other, the plaintiff's reputation and goodwill may be damaged without any corresponding gain to the defendant. In the Lego case, for example a customer who was dissatisfied with the defendant's plastic irrigation equipment may be dissuaded from buying one of the plaintiff's plastic toy construction kits for his children if he believed that it was made by the defendant. The danger in such a case is that the plaintiff loses control over his own reputation." 52. Shri Devetri also relied upon the decision of the Chancery Division in the matter of Fortune & Manson Plc v. Fortnam Limited & others (1994 FSR 438). In the said case, plaintiff was the well known store in Piccadilly Fortnum and Manson, which alleged passing off against a company incorporated in 1988 and sought interlocutory relief in respect thereof. The defendant admitted that the plaintiff had an outstanding reputation in its name but there was a dispute as to the nature of the trade in which the plaintiff was engaged. The defendant carried on business as an importer of low priced goods from the Far east and the exporter of those goods to Europe. The defendant did not apply its name to the goods themselves and there was no direct connection between the goods and the name. It was held refusing relief : 53. Next authority relied upon by Mr. Devetri was the decision of the Court of Appeal in the matter of Stringfellow and another v. McCain Foods (GB) Ltd., (1984 RPC 501) and especially to the following findings : 54. Next reliance was placed on the decision of the Chancery Division in the matter of Granada Group Limited and others v. Ford Motor Company Ltd. (1973 RPC 49) wherein, the plaintiffs, who were well known for television, theater, cinema and publicity activities conducted under the name GRANADA, sought an interlocutory injection to restrain the defendants from using that name for a new model of motor car. The plaintiffs contended (a) that the public would associate GRANADA car with the plaintiffs (although not thinking that the plaintiffs made them) and would think that the defendants business was associated or in some way connected with that of the plaintiffs, and (b) that the plaintiffs had a legal right in the commercial exploitation of their name. The defendants case was that in its context the use of the name could not lead to confusion between their cars or business and the goods or business of the plaintiffs and it was held, that the plaintiffs had failed to produce evidence to satisfy the court that, if the word GRANADA was used in its proposed context there was a likelihood of confusion between the defendants goods or business and the goods or business of the plaintiffs. An interlocutory injunction would accordingly be refused. The balance of convenience was in any case against the grant of such an injunction. 55. Shri Devetri heavily relied upon the decision of the Learned Single Judge in the matter of "Sony" decided by Pendse J. and another judgment of the Learned Single Judge in the matter of Alchemy decided by Shirkrishna J, to which a reference has been already made in the foregoing paragraphs of this judgment. 56. Shri Devetri then relied upon the decision of Privy Council in the matter of Cadbury Schweppes Pvt. Ltd. v. The Pub Squash Co. Ltd. (1981 RPC 429), wherein it was held as under : On page 494 it is also held that the relevant date for determining whether a plaintiff has established the necessary goodwill or reputation of his product in law is the date of the commencement of the conduct complained of on the part of the defendants. 57. On the issue of interlocutory relief Shri Devetri relied upon the decision of the Chancery Division in Lyons maid Limited v. Trebor Limited (1967 RPC 222). He especially relied upon the following observations : 58. On the point of balance of convenience Shri Devetri also relied upon the decision of the Learned Single Judge of the High Court of Karnataka in Kirloskar Proprietary Ltd. and Others v. Kirloskar Dimensions Pvt. Ltd. and Others (AIR 1997 Karnataka), wherein even though the Learned Judge held that the plaintiffs have made out prima facie case, in paragraphs 35 and 36, the Learned Judge held as under : 59. In support of the submission that the court should be slow in interfering with the discretionary interlocutory order, Shri Devetri relied upon the decision of the Apex Court in Wander Ltd. and another v. Antox India Pvt. Ltd. (1990 Suppl. SC Cases 727) He has especially relied upon the observations in paragraph 14 which are as under : 60. On the other hand, Shri Tulzapurkar with very great justification pointed out very peculiar facts of the case and emphasized what the Apex Court in the very Wander Ltd. (supra) case has observed in paragraph 19 of the judgment which is as under : 61. Taking into consideration the various cases cited by both sides we are of the opinion that the crux of the passing off action lies in actual or possible or probable deception. The plaintiff necessarily has to establish reputation and goodwill. In quia timet action he must also show the probability of the plaintiffs suffering damage either in trade or to his goodwill and reputation. Deception may be of several kinds, i.e. that the public may think that the goods manufactured by the defendants are in fact manufactured by the plaintiffs or that there is some trade connection or association of the defendants with the plaintiffs. It is also clear that the transborder reputation has been recognized by the Indian Courts and as a matter of law it is not necessary to prove the actual sale, if by other material, presence of the plaintiffs in India and goodwill and reputation in India is demonstrated. It is also clear to us that as a matter of law the "common field of activity" is not required to be established. However, as the crux of passing off action lies in possible deception, the existence of common field of activity is always relevant consideration. If there is common field of activity, possibility of deception is very high and if there is common field of activity possibility may be less, but it cannot be laid down as a rule of law that there can be no possibility at all. Thirdly and more importantly, all these issues ultimately will depend on the facts and circumstances and the material on record of each particular case, as to whether the plaintiff has established the goodwill or reputation, whether the plaintiff has established the transborder reputation, whether the defendant has caused misrepresentation innocently or deliberately and whether the plaintiff has suffered damage or is likely to suffer damage in quia timet action. These will be questions of fact to be determined by the court. It is also clear that if it is shown that the defendant intended to deceive, the burden would be much lighter on the part of the plaintiff. The existence of unexpected and unexplained similarities between the goods of the defendant and the plaintiff or lack of explanation or false explanation for adoption of name by the defendant, may be extremely relevant. 62. We will first deal with the contentions of the defendants that the interim relief should not be granted as there is gross delay and in any case the plaintiffs have acquiesced in the defendants action. We must first record that on the basis of the material on record, we do not find any justification to hold that the action of the plaintiffs in instituting the suit is mollified action in that it is an action to blackmail the plaintiffs. Shri Devetri contended that the defendant company, i.e. Volvo Steels Limited had been incorporated in the year 1990 and they commenced production in the year 1991. In the year 1993 it was incorporated as a public limited company. On 7-3-1995 a public issue was opened. The issue was closed on 10-3-1995. As such the suit filed on 16-3-1995 is delayed. Shri Devetri also submitted that there was in existence a company by name Volvo Terry Limited whose shares were regularly traded on the Bombay Stock Exchange form the year 1992 to August 1993, which the plaintiffs ought to have noticed and inasmuch as the plaintiffs did not take action, the defendants were justified in presuming that the plaintiffs do not claim any proprietary right in goodwill and reputation in the name "Volvo". In other words the plaintiffs have acquiesced. We are not impressed by this argument that the plaintiffs action is delayed on the hypothesis that the plaintiffs had knowledge of the use of the word "Volvo" by the defendants. The record shows that the plaintiffs came to know about the same for the first time whey they received a letter dated 7-3-1995 along with the prospectus of the defendant company and the advertisement, from ANZ Grindlays Bank. We find no reason not to accept this assertion and as such we do not find that there is any delay in filing the suit. 63. So far as the point of acquiescence is concerned, we do not find any material on record to hold against the plaintiffs. There is no material to show that the plaintiffs in any way encouraged or deliberately and knowingly permitted the defendants to use the name Volvo. Looking to the status and reputation of the plaintiffs to which we will make a reference hereinafter we do not consider it probable at all that despite knowledge the plaintiffs allowed the defendants to use the name right from 1990. On the contrary the moment the plaintiffs came to know about the use of name Volvo by the defendants they have immediately moved the court. On the basis of the legal position in this behalf as enunciated by the case cited and referred to by us, we are of the opinion that the plaintiffs cannot be declined the reliefs on the alleged ground of delay or acquiescence. 64. So far as the reputation and goodwill of the plaintiffs is concerned, Shri Tulzapurkar pointed out from the plaintiff's annual report of 1993 that the sales of the plaintiff's company in the year 1991 were 77,223 S.E.K. Millions, which rose to 83,002 in 1992 and 1,11,155 in 1993. However, Shri Devetri from the same report pointed out that in the speech of the President and the Chief Executive Officer, it is clear that the resources Volvo possesses have to be directed toward their core businesses. The automotive operations must have their full attention. He also pointed out that in the very speech it has been mentioned that Volvo today has an impressive product program that has attracted a great deal of attention and has produced marketing successes. They are less dependent than other European car makers on the continuing weak market in Europe. Shri Tulzapurkar also pointed out that Volvo groups total assets increased by SEK 17.5 billion to SEK 134.5 billion, during 1993. At pages 368 to 385 of the appeal paper book registrations of volvo as trade mark in 138 countries throughout the world are mentioned. At page 236 of the appeal paper book several companies are mentioned which are either wholly owned or group contributed companies or major owned companies by A. B. Volvo. These companies are in different parts of the world like USA, Belgium, France, Norway, Singapore, Hong Kong, Mexico, Sweden, Germany, Spain, Italy, London, Scotland, Denmark, Ireland, Brazil, Thailand, south Korea, Canada, Netherlands, Turkey etc. Shri Tulzapurkar also pointed out that the material on record shows that the plaintiffs have been advertising Volvo cars on the Star T.V. network. Shri Devetri pointed out that material shows that it was only in respect of cars and that too in the year 1994. Shri Tulzapurkar further pointed our that Volvo has been advertising itself through international magazines. In that behalf Shri Tulzapurkar pointed that in Times article entitled "Boom for the pleasure packages" was published on 10-6-1989. Article entitled, "Duch Volvo Sees Net Rise on New Model" was published in Asian Wall Street Journal on 2-12-1986. Article entitled "Volvo buys out Leyland But" was published in Financial Times of 31-3-1988 as also an article entitled 'O Milagre economicoda volvo' in Portuguese with English translation was published in Readers Digest in 1985. He also pointed out an article entitled 'We can love the Earth' in Times, was also published on 15-11-1989. Similarly an article entitled 'Marriage of Convenience' was published on 5-3-1990 in Newsweek. 65. The most important material on which Shri Tulzapurkar led emphasis was publication entitled 'Brands' which is an international review by Interbrand which was first published in 1990 and reprinted in 1991. It is stated on the cover note that the concept of the brand started to grow in importance about a century ago. Indeed, many of today's greatest brands, among them Kodak and Coco-Cola, date form this period and branding is now of central importance to producers to differentiate their products or services around the world. Brands are, for many companies, the engines of growth and profitability and by far their most valuable assets. The book is about the growth and development of the world's most successful brands, how they started, and where they are today. The book describes, on a brand by brand basis, what makes each brand powerful and how each brand is differentiated from others. The scope of the book is international including brands which have power worldwide like Kellog's and brand which operate mainly on a local basis like Snow Brand in Japan and Vegemite in Australia. It is expressly stated that only the world's leading brands have been represented here. They have been selected by Interbrand Group plc., the world's leading branding consultancy. Its selection of leading brands has been culled from an initial working list of over 500 brands which incorporate those key characteristics that, in the view of Ierbrand, constitute brand strength. These factors include leadership, stability, trend and support, as well as the markets in which the brand operates. Interbrand's selection focuses on brands with strong and distinctive brand personalities and favours free-standing product brands rather than more generalised corporate brands. A reference to 'Volvo' is found on page 101 of the book and this is what is written about Volvo : 66. Shri Tulzapurkar also pointed out that the company has been sponsoring sport activities on a large scale i.e. Davis Cup in Tennis, Equestrian Volvo World Cup, Golf, Motoring and Skisport and that the Davis Cup in Tennis in India was also sponsored by the company in the month of March 1986. 67. In our opinion the aforesaid material clearly shows that the Volvo brand name has acquired very large reputation and goodwill throughout the world. 68. The question is whether the aforesaid reputation and goodwill has reached India. In other words whether the plaintiffs are in a position to show its presence in India. Apart from the international magazines to which we have made a reference and which have circulation in India, Shri Tulzapurkar relied upon the affidavits filed on behalf of the plaintiffs. Affidavit of one Kamalkant Chotalal Joshi of Bombay states that he has come across the name Volvo advertised in various international magazines and newspapers such as the Business Week and the Times magazine; that the name Volvo is well known in India and relates to a sturdy set of cars and trucks manufactured by the group of companies established in Sweden called A.B. Volvo. Similar affidavit of one Lalit Maneklal Shah is on record. Of course such an opinion/evidence of individuals may not be of much weight. In the affidavit of Vikram Singh the Constituted Attorney of the Plaintiffs, a reference is made to certain documents and the documents are annexed at Exhibit. B1 to B5. Exhibit N1 is a certificate of inspection dated 13-6-1974 by India Supply Mission, London, the consignee being the Commandant, Central Ordnance Depot, Jabalpur as supplied by the plaintiffs for out-board motors which were 133 in number. Exhibit B2 is an invoice No. I-LK 82644, dt. 20-12-1974 the consignee being the Commandant, Embarkation headquarters, Colaba, Bombay as supplied by Plaintiffs for 267 crates of Outboard motors. Exhibit B3 is a letter dated 17-4-1974 addressed to the Orissa University of Agriculture and Technology, by the plaintiff's company. Exhibit B4 is a letter dated 17-1-1974 addressed to Pearey Lal & Sons (East Punjab) private Ltd., Janpath, Delhi by the plaintiffs company regarding details or representation. Exhibit B5 are the extracts from an agency agreement between the plaintiffs company and Scanind Pvt. Ltd., New Delhi dt. 19-3-1978. The affidavit also makes a reference to a concessionaire contract between the plaintiffs and Hyder (India) Pvt. Ltd. of Kodak India for the Volvo Penta Industrial Engines accessories and spare parts dated 24-3-1970. 69. Shri Tulzapurkar also pointed out that the plaintiffs have registered the trade mark 'Volvo' in Class VII under the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act in Bombay in respect of marine engines, aircraft engines for industrial, agricultural and forestry machines, stationary combustion engines and parts and fittings included in class 7 for all the aforesaid engines, turbines and electric motors, none being for land vehicles, electric generators, converters for liquid fuels, injectors, vaporizers, ignition devices and parts thereof all included in class 7, sparking plugs, silencers, spark arrestors for combustion engines, bearings, shifts, shift scales, gear wheels etc. in the year 1982 as of 10-9-1975. The plaintiffs have also registered 'Volvo' in Bombay under the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act 1958 in class XII on 26-11-1986 as on 15-5-1980 in respect of land vehicles and parts thereof included in Class XII. Shri Tulzapurkar also pointed out that in respect of Volvo Cars, there have been advertisements on Star TV between 18th October and 1st November, 1994. 70. In our opinion the aforesaid material does indicate that Volvo has shown its presence in India and although Shri Devetri may be right in his submission that it cannot be stated that Volvo has become household name, we are of the opinion that the aforesaid material prima facie shows that Volvo is recognised as one of the distinctive brands and that it has very large reputation and goodwill throughout the world and the plaintiffs have been successful to show prima facie its presence in India. 71. Shri Devetri submitted that the reputation and goodwill of the plaintiffs is confined to cars, trucks and automotive industry and as the defendants are manufacturers of mild steel ingots which is an intermediary product used by rolling mills in manufacture of torsteel, there is absolutely no connection between the plaintiffs products and the defendants products. Shri Tulzapurkar on the other hand contended that the plaintiffs products also include automobiles, construction equipment and steel and defendants although are manufacturing at present mild steel ingots, the prospectus issued by the defendants show that the activities would include steel, automobiles, and construction equipments. The prospectus also makes a reference to steel for bus bodies, automobiles and heavy machineries and to manufacture of all kinds of goods of iron, steel and other metals and alloys such as machineries, machine parts, tools and implements of all kinds, particularly to manufacture, buy and sell and deal in components, tools, spare parts, accessories and equipment required by engineering, automobile industries. Shri Tulzapurkar, therefore, submitted that assuming there may not be common field of activity there is some overlapping. 72. If this was the only material, then possibly we may not have been inclined to interfere with the impugned order. However, as stated earlier, the crux of passing off lies in actual or probable deception or misrepresentation. Misrepresentation may be of several kinds and one of them may be suggesting that the defendants have some association or trade connection with the plaintiffs, and on this aspect in out opinion the question whether 'Volvo' is a descriptive word or distinctive or fancy word as also the reasons and explanation of the defendants for adoption of word 'Volvo' assume great importance. 73. Undoubtedly word 'Volvo' is a Latin word meaning thereby 'rerolling', 'to roll up', to 'to roll together' and 'form by rolling'. However, it is required to be appreciated that hardly any one in India knows Latin and it is extremely improbable that anybody would translate the word 'Volvo' when one hears or reads the same. Latin being almost a dead and obscure language hardly anybody in India knows Latin. The word 'Volvo' for average Indian would not mean anything and would not be a descriptive word. On the other hand, we find great substance in the submission of Shri Tulzapurkar that the word 'Volvo' is invented and a fancy word. 74. However, what assumes significance in this case is the explanation and the reasons given by the defendants for adopting the word 'Volvo'. In the affidavit of Shri Suleman A. Kalaniya, on behalf of the defendants, he has stated that 'Volvo' is a Latin word which means 'to cause to revolve', roll, turn about, and turn around. It is further stated that in its different connotation the word would also mean to roll up, roll together, form by rolling. It is then asserted that as the products of the defendants were meant ultimately for the process of 'rolling' the name 'Volvo' was chosen and approved by the Registrar of Companies of Gujarat. It is also mentioned that the products are sold to rolling mills which manufacture torsteel. To our mind we find it difficult to confirm the finding of th learned Judge that this is a plausible explanation. The defendants product itself has nothing to do with the "rolling" the defendant's explanation for adopting the word 'Volvo' appears to us far fetched and unacceptable on the face of it. Even prima facie it appears that the defendants have chosen the word "Volvo" only to trade on the plaintiffs' reputation and goodwill. This is fortified by the further conduct of the defendants. Their advertisement at Exhibit-L on page 426 of the paper book, which shows that "Volvo Group" is actively involved in the field of food processing, rubber products, cement, plastics, acrylic yarn, ship breaking and iron and steel. From Asia's largest ship breaking yard in Along, MS scrap is converted into stainless steel and now with the expansion project in Volvo steels, scrap will be turned into, Volvo added hot rolled products of Stainless and Alloy Stell. It is an opportunity to profit from the fast growing "Volvo group". There is also in bold type a slogan in the said advertisement to the effect "Building on the strength of the Volvo Group". Shri Tulzapurkar submitted that such advertisement is clear conduct on the part of the defendants to fraudulently derive undue advantage and to project itself as an offshoot or branch or agency or having some connection or association with the plaintiffs Volvo Group with a view to benefit and trade upon the plaintiffs goodwill and reputation. It is extremely relevant to notice that apart from Volvo Steels Ltd. No other concerns of the promoters of the defendants company have the name "Volvo". All other concerns are as under : 75. The order of the learned Judge does indicate that the existence of common field of activity has been held by learned Judge as an essential feature as a matter of law in a passing off action, which in our opinion is not a correct statement of law. On the basis of the material on record to which we have made a reference, it is not possible for us to accept the finding of the learned Single Judge that the plaintiffs have not prima facie shown that they enjoyed transborder reputation. It is also not possible to accept the learned judge's finding that the plaintiffs have not shown prima facie that the acts of the defendants amount to misrepresentation. It is also not possible to accept the finding of the learned Judge that neither the mark "Volvo" is a fancy name nor it can be said that it is associated with the defendants name without any object, the object being to denote the nature of activities of the defendants or that the explanation given by the defendants for adopting the word "Volvo" as part of their name, is plausible. No doubt the project of th plaintiffs and the defendants are not similar, but as indicated above, there is some overlapping between the field of activity of the plaintiffs and the defendants. As we have not accepted the explanation of the defendants for adopting the word "Volvo", and as we have found prima facie that the intention of the defendants as indicated by their assertions as belonging to "Volvo Group" is only to trade on the reputation and goodwill of the plaintiffs, we are of the opinion that the plaintiffs have made out a very strong prima facie case for issuance of injunction. 76. So far as the balance of convenience is concerned, in our opinion the plaintiffs have shown that they enjoy a very wide and large goodwill and reputation qua the brand name "Volvo" almost throughout the world. As a matter of fact the affidavit filed in this appeal as an additional evidence shows that in the month of February 1996 Foreign Investment Promotion Board has granted permission to Volvo Truck Corporation a company forming part of the Volvo Group of Companies to invest and acquire 100% shareholding in an Indian company. Accordingly on 31-10-1996 the Volvo India Pvt. Ltd. was incorporated for the purpose of carrying on business stated in its Memorandum of Association. In addition to that five companies were incorporated in India which are 100% subsidiaries of the Volvo Group of Companies i.e. 
 
 

 Volvo Bud India Pvt. Ltd. Volvo Penta India Pvt. Ltd. Volvo Construction Equipment India Pvt. Ltd. Volvo Truck India Pvt. Ltd. Volvo Car India Pvt. Ltd. The Volvo India Pvt. Ltd. has signed the Memorandum of understanding with the State of Karnataka for the manufacture of heavy duty state of the art trucks in India. Volvo India Pvt. Ltd. (VIPL) has also entered into an agreement dated 22-1-1997 with the Karnataka Industrial Area Development Board for acquiring a plot of land admeasuring 125 acres for construction of their factory near Bangalore. VIPL proposes to bring out its first truck on the road in or about the first half of 1998. It is also mentioned that the plaintiffs came to know about the existence of the Volvo Terry Industries Ltd. from Ahmedabad after reading the affidavit in reply of the defendants and in fact after serving the notice on Volvo Terry Industries Ltd. They have filed the suit No. 4528 of 1995 in the City Civil Court at Ahmedabad against Volvo Terry Industries on 7-11-1995. There is also another company by name Volvo Finance Ltd. and upon application of the plaintiffs the said company has also been made a party defendant to the aforesaid suit. 77. We are conscious that all these developments are subsequent and for the interim reliefs we will have to take into consideration the circumstance obtainable when the plaintiffs moved the court for the first time and also the date on which the defendants commenced the action complained of i.e. adoption of the word 'Volvo' which was in the year 1990. However, these further developments coupled with the factors of the plaintiffs presence in India to which we have already made a reference make it clear that the plaintiffs always intended to enter into Indian Market. As a matter of fact, if once we come to the prima facie conclusion that the defendants are guilty of dishonestly adopting the brand name 'Volvo' there is no question of considering any balance of convenience in favour of the defendants. The plaintiffs have made out a strong case for protection against dilution of their brand name 'VOLVO'. Even if the defendants are required to change their name at this juncture as they had commenced business only in 1990, we are of the opinion that they are not likely to suffer much and even if they suffer some inconvenience in the event of the failure of the plaintiffs in the suit, defendants can be adequately compensated in terms of money. Same thing cannot be said in respect of the damage which is likely to be suffered by the plaintiffs by way of dilution or debasement of their brand name 'Volvo' and as such in our opinion the balance of convenience is in favour of the plaintiffs. 78. In the result appeal succeeds. The order of the Learned Single Judge dismissing the notice of motion with cost is set aside and instead we grant the aforesaid notice of motion in terms of prayer clauses (a) and (b). We are also of the opinion that in the facts and circumstances of the case the defendants must be granted sufficient time to comply with the said injunction and accordingly we direct that the said injunction will be operative from 1st April, 1998. 79. Appeal allowed in the aforesaid terms. There shall be no order as to costs.