The present criminal petition, under Sections 437 and 439 Cr.P.C., is

filed by the petitioners-accused Nos. 3 to 5 seeking to release them on bail in

crime No. 148 of 2023 of Kadiam Police Station, East Godavari District,

registered for the offences punishable under Sections 306 , 504, 509, 384 and 386 read with Section 34 IPC and Section 67 of Information Technology Act. 2. Heard Smt. B.Annapurna Devi, learned counsel appearing for the

petitioners-accused Nos. 3 to 5, and learned Assistant Public Prosecutor

appearing for the respondent-State. 3. Case of the prosecution in brief is that one Surakasula Hari Krishna

(hereinafter referred to as 'the deceased'), who was studying I Year B.Tech

Course in Aditya Engineering College, Surampalem, obtained loan through an

Online App called 'PEPI Loan App' by installing the said App in his mobile

phone on 28-01-2023 and enabled access to his data, such as, Aadhaar Card,

Pan Card and bank account details to the said Loan App authorities for

sanction of Rs.3,200/- towards loan, and an amount of Rs.1,800/- was

credited to his mother's bank account. Later, upon receiving messages from

the said Loan App to repay the amount of Rs.3,200/- within a week, he

repaid Rs.3,200/- to the said Loan App. Even after clearing the debt, the said

Loan App authorities sent messages to him that if he fails to make payment,

they would send his morphed nude photos to the contacts in his contact list.

Due to fear, the deceased installed another Loan App by name 'Petty Cash' 2 and took a loan of Rs.5,000/-, of which Rs.3,200/- was credited to his

mother's bank account. He cleared the debt of PEPI Loan App and

uninstalled the said App. Later, he received threatening messages from Petty

Cash Loan App to remit an amount of Rs.21,000/- within a week, upon which

he requested the said Loan App authorities for charging high amounts for

small amount of loan obtained by him. Then, he got threatening messages

from the said Petty Cash Loan App that they would send his morphed nude

photos and videos to his contacts. Then, he obtained loan of Rs.25,000/-

from 1) Cash Lent 2) Loan Plant 3) Small Credit and 4) Credit Party Loan

Apps and remitted Rs.21,000/- to Petty Cash Loan App through UPI and

uninstalled the said App from his phone. Further, he remitted Rs.6,000/- also

to Credit Party Loan App and uninstalled the said App. Later, he remitted

loan amounts to other three Loan Apps before 15-02-2023 but he received

messages from the remaining 3 Loan Apps, demanding him to pay cash and

threatening to send his morphed nude photos to his contacts. Unable to bear

the same, the deceased approached police of Kadiam Police Station and

lodged a report, on the basis of which a case in crime No. 87 of 2023 for the

offences under Sections 504, 506, 509, 384 and 386 read with Section 34 IPC

and Sections 66 (C) and 67 of Information Technology Act has been

registered and investigated into. While so, on 06-05-2023 in the evening, the

deceased again got threatening messages and his morphed nude photos to

his WhatsApp number from the phone numbers of Cash Kingdom and Loan At

Speed Loan Cash Apps and other Loan Apps. Due to the mental agony 3 caused to him by such acts of the Loan Apps, the deceased committed

suicide by hanging himself to ceiling fan in his house, in the absence of family

members. Basing on the report lodged by the father of the deceased, the

present crime has been registered. During the course of investigation,

accused No. 1 was arrested on 12-05-2023 and he confessed that he has

been earning money easily by cheating the public through unauthorized

online Apps, trading Apps and other online sources and that he demanded

the deceased, who took money through Loan Apps, to send money to him,

even after repayment of loan amount, by threatening that he would send

morphed nude photos of the deceased to his contacts. Later, accused No. 2

was arrested on 17-05-2023 and he confessed that he has been getting bank

accounts opened by innocent persons by offering them money and giving

those account details to the online Loan App authorities and that he sent

abusive and threatening messages to the deceased demanding him to pay

more money. The investigation further revealed that one Xing (A3) and his

associates have been getting various bank accounts opened in India, securing

details of those accounts and operating online App business and thereby,

collecting huge amounts from innocent persons fraudulently. On 23-05-2023,

accused Nos. 3 to 5 were apprehended at the outskirts of Chennai and their

confession revealed that they along with accused Nos. 7 to 9, hired agents in

South Asian Countries and formed groups in the countries and through their

agents, they have been getting bank accounts opened in India by

needy/greedy people on the pretext of using those bank accounts for online 4 gaming, which is legal in Malaysia, lending small amounts to the public

through Online Apps and collecting huge amounts by sending threatening

messages and morphed nude photos to them and to their contacts. They

further confessed that they pay an amount of 220 US dollars to their agents

for each account every month and accused Nos. 5 and 10 monitor the

accounts in India. On 27-05-2023, accused No. 6, who has been collecting

bank accounts from the agents and sending those details to the persons in

other countries, was apprehended near East Railway Station,

Rajamahendravaram, and his confession statement was also recorded. 4. Learned counsel for the petitioners-accused Nos. 3 to 5 submits that

the petitioners were arrested on 23-05-2023 at Chennai and thereafter, they

were remanded to judicial custody and ever since, they have been in judicial

custody; that entire investigation is completed and the police have filed

charge sheet and that the case has been committed to the Court of Sessions

and schedule is also fixed for conducting trial. Learned counsel further

submits that all the other accused were already granted bail by this Court;

that the passports of the petitioners were already deposited before the trial

Court and the petitioners will not seek return of the same till trial is

completed and that the petitioners undertake that they will not leave the

Country till conclusion of trial. 5. Learned Assistant Public Prosecutor, on the other hand, vehemently

opposed the criminal petition on the ground that once the petitioners are

enlarged on bail, they may flee the Country as they are citizens of Malaysia. 5 6. As the entire investigation is completed and schedule of trial has also

been fixed and as the petitioners have been in judicial custody from

23-05-2023 and all the other accused were already enlarged on bail, this

Court is inclined to enlarge the petitioners-accused Nos. 3 to 5 on bail with

certain conditions. 7. The petitioners-accused Nos. 3 to 5 are, therefore, ordered to be

released on bail on their executing each a personal bond for Rs.1,00,000/-

with two sureties for the like sum each to the satisfaction of learned VII

Additional Judicial I Class Magistrate, Rajamahendravaram. After release, the

petitioners-accused Nos. 3 to 5 are directed to report before the Station

House Officer, Kadiam Police Station, once in a week i.e. on every Monday

between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. until further orders. The petitioners-accused

Nos. 3 to 5 are further directed not to leave the jurisdictional limits of East

Godavari District without permission of the trial Court. As the passports of

the petitioners-accused Nos. 3 to 5 were already deposited before the trial

Court, they should be retained by the trial Court till conclusion of trial. 8. The criminal petition is accordingly allowed. ___________________________________

 K. SURESH REDDY, J
Date: 31-01-2024,
JSK 6 THE HON'BLE SRI JUSTICE K.SURESH REDDY

 CRIMINAL PETITION No. 9039 OF 2023

 DATE: 31ST JANUARY, 2024

JSK