In this petition, a question of vital public importance has been

 raised for the protection of cows. The petitioner is a registered

 organization. The aim and object of the petitioner-organization is to protect

 Cows and to preserve its varieties. The petitioner has also sought complete

 ban on cow slaughter. There is no proper arrangement for food, medicine

 and infrastructure for the cows. The cows are found abandoned

 throughout the State of Himachal Pradesh. The cows are also transported

 outside the State brutally for slaughtering. The devotion of Indians

 towards worship of cows is an integral part of Hinduism. There is dire

 need to construct modern gaushallas/gausadans in the State of Himachal

 Pradesh to protect abandoned cows. There should be compulsory ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 20:54:56 :::HCHP 2 registration of the cattle as well as gausadans/gaushallas. The petitioner

 in fact has sought complete ban on cow slaughter in India. . 2. The former President of India Dr. Radhakrishnan in his Speech

 on "The Role of Cow in Indian Economy" has addressed as follows: 3. In "The Indian Constitution Cornerstone of a Nation", the

 learned author Granville Austin, has observed that the provision pertaining

 to the improvement of agriculture and animal husbandry techniques and

 the prohibition of cow slaughter was added to the Directive Principles for a

 mixture of reasons. He made the following observations qua Article 48: 4. Pandit Thakur Dass Bhargava, the Hon'ble Member of the

 Constituent Assembly has eloquently debated the sensitive issue of

 "protection of cows" on 24th November, 1948 in the Constituent Assembly

 while seeking amendment in proposed Article 38-A at page 568 of the

 Constituent Assembly Debates (Vol. VII) as under: Leaving it aside, I want to draw your attention to the speech of
 our President, Dr. Rajendra Prasad. After this the Government
 of India, appointed a committee - an expert representative
 committee-to find out whether for the benefit of the country

 the number of cattle can be increased, and whether their
 slaughter can be stopped. The Committee has unanimously
 decided in its favour. Seth Govind Das was also a member of
 the committee. The committee unanimously decided that cattle

 slaughter should be banned. Great minds were associated with
 the said committee. They examined the question from the

 economic view-point; they gave thought to the unproductive
 and unserviceable cattle also. After viewing the problem from
 all angles they came to the unanimous decision that slaughter
 of cattle should be stopped. That resolution relates not to cows

 alone. Slaughtering of buffaloes, which yield 50 per cent of our
 milk supply, and of the goats which yield 3 per cent of our milk
 supply, and also bring a profit of several crores, is as sinful as
 that of cows. In my district of Hariana, a goat yields 3 to 4
 seers of milk. Perhaps a cow does not yield that much in other
 areas. Therefore I submit that we should consider it from an
 economic point of view. I also want to state that many of the
 cattle, which are generally regarded as useless, are not really
 so. Experts have made an estimate of that, and they came to
 the conclusion that the cattle which are regarded as useless
 are not really so, because we are in great need of manure. A
 cow, whether it be a milch-cow or not, is a moving manure
 factory and so, as far as cow is concerned, there can be no ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 20:54:56 :::HCHP 7 question of its being useless or useful. It can never be useless.
 In the case of cow there can be no dispute on the point.]
 (Hearing the bell being rung.) Am I to stop? . As the Vice-President has ordered me to finish off, I shall not
 go into the details; otherwise I can prove by figures that the
 value of the refuse and urine of a cow is greater than the cost
 of her maintenance. In the end, I would wind up by saying that

 there might be people, who regard the question of banning
 cow-slaughter as unimportant, but I would like to remind them
 that the average age in our country is 23 years, and that many
 children die under one year of age! The real cause of all this is

 of
 shortage of milk and deficiency in diet. Its remedy lies in
 improving the breed of the cow, and by stopping its slaughter. I
 attach very great importance to this amendment, so much so
 that if on one side of the scale you were to put this amendment
 and on the other all these315 clauses of the draft, I would
 rt
 prefer the former. If this is accepted, the whole country would
 be, in a way, electrified. Therefore, I request you to accept this
 amendment unanimously with acclamation. 5. Seth Govind Das has debated at page 571 of Constituent

 Assembly Debates Vol. VII as under: The object of the amendment is, I hope, quite clear from its
 words. The amendment moved by Pandit Bhargava prohibits
 the slaughter of cow and other useful cattle but according to it
 unfit or useless cows may be slaughtered .But the object of my
 amendment is, as far as cows are concerned, to prohibit the
 slaughter of any cow, be it useful or useless and in my
 amendment word 'cow' includes bulls, bullocks and calves all
 that are born of cows. As Pandit Thakur Das told you, I had ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 20:54:56 :::HCHP 8 submitted this earlier to be included in Fundamental Rights
 but I regret that it could not be so included. The reason given
 is that Fundamental Rights deal only with human beings and

 . not animals. I had then stated that just as the practice of un

 touchability was going to be declared an offence so also we
 should declare the slaughter of cows to be an offence. But it
 was said that while untouchability directly affected human
 beings the slaughter of cows affected the life of animals only - and that as the Fundamental Rights were for human beings
 this provision could not be included therein. Well, I did not
 protest against that view and thought it proper to include this
 provision in the Directive Principles. It will not be improper,

 of
 Sir, if I mention here, that it is not for the first time that I am
 raising the question of cow protection. I have been a member
 of the Central Legislature for the last twenty-five years and I
 have always raised this question in the Assembly and in the
 Council of State. The protection of cow is a question of long
 rt
 standing in this country. Great importance has been attached
 to this question from the time of Lord Krishna. I belong to a
 family which worships Lord Krishna as "Ishtadev". I consider

 myself a religious minded person, and have no respect for
 those people of the present day society whose attitude towards
 religion and religious minded people is one of contempt. It is
 my firm belief that Dharma had never been uprooted from the
 world and nor can it be uprooted. There had been unbelievers

 like Charvaka in our country also but the creed of Charvaka
 could never flourish in this country. Now-a-days the
 Communist leaders of the West also and I may name among
 them Karl Marx, Lenin, Stalin, declare religion "the opium of

 the People". Russia recognised neither religion nor God but we
 have seen that in the last war the Russian people offered

 prayers to God in Churches to grant them victory. Thus it is
 plain from the history of ancient times as also from that of
 God-denying Russia that religion could not be uprooted. Moreover, cow protection is not only a matter of religion with
 us; it is also a cultural and economic question. Culture is a gift
 of History. India is an ancient country; consequently no new
 culture can be imposed on it. Whosoever attempts to do so is
 bound to fail; he can never succeed. Ours is a culture that has
 gradually developed with our long history. Swaraj will have no
 meaning for our people in the absence of a culture. Great
 important cultural issues - for instance the question of the
 name of the country, question of National Language, question
 of National Script, question of the National Anthem and
 question of the prohibition of cow slaughter - are before this
 Assembly and unless the Constituent Assembly decides these
 questions according to the wishes of the people of the country, ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 20:54:56 :::HCHP 9 Swarajya will have no meaning to the common people of our
 country. I would like to submit, Sir, that a referendum be
 taken on these issues and the opinion of the people be

 . ascertained. Again, cow protection is also a matter of great

 economic importance for us. Pandit Thakur Das Bhargava has
 shown to you by quoting statistic how the cattle wealth of the
 country is diminishing. This country is predominantly
 agricultural in character. I would give some figures here

 regarding the position of our cattle wealth. In 1935 there were
 one hundred nineteen million and four hundred ninety one
 thousand (11,94,91,000) heads of cattle. In 1940 their number
 came down to one hundred fifteen million and six hundred ten

 of
 thousand, and in 1945 it further came down to

 one hundred eleven million and 9hundred thousand. While on
 one side our population is increasing our cattle wealth is
 decreasing. Our Government is carrying on a Grow More Food
 rt
 Campaign. Millions of rupees are being spent on this
 campaign. This campaign cannot succeed so long as we do not
 preserve the cows. Pandit Thakur Das has given us some

 figures to show the number of cows slaughtered in our
 country. I would like to quote here some figures from the Hide
 and Skin Report of the Government of India. Fifty two lakhs of
 cows and thirteen lakhs of buffaloes are slaughtered every year
 in this country. It shows in what amazing numbers cattle are

 slaughtered here. Thirty six crores acres of land are under
 cultivation here. These figures also includes the land under
 cultivation in Pakistan. I have to give these figures because we
 have no figure of the land under cultivation in India since the

 secession of Pakistan from our country. We have six crores
 bullocks for the cultivation of the land. A scientific estimate

 would show that we need another one and a half crore of
 bullocks to keep this land under proper cultivation. So far as the question of milk supply is concerned I would like

 to place before you figures of milk supply of other countries as
 compared to that of our country. In New Zealand milk supply per capita is 56 ounces, in
 Denmark 40, in Finland 63, in Sweden 61, in Australia 45, in
 Canada 35, in Switzerland 49, in Netherland 35, in Norway43,
 in U.S.A. 35, in Czechoslovakia 36, in Belgium 35, in Australia
 30, in Germany 35, in France 30, in Poland 22, in Great
 Britain 39 and in India it is only 7 ounces. Just think what will
 be the state of health of the people of a country where they get
 only seven ounces of milk per head. There is a huge infantile
 mortality in this country. Children are dying like dogs and
 cats. How can they be saved without milk? Thus even if we look at this problem from the economic point
 of view, we come to the conclusion that for the supply of milk
 and agriculture also, the protection of the cow is necessary. . I would like to place before the House one thing more. It has
 been proved by experience that whatever laws we may frame
 for the prevention of the slaughter of useful cattle, their object
 is not achieved. In every province there are such laws. There

 people slaughter cattle and pay some amount towards fines
 and sometimes escape even that. Thus our cattle wealth is
 declining day by day. of
 Sometime back there was a law like that in Burma but when
 they saw that cattle could not be saved under it, they banned
 cow slaughter altogether. I would like to emphasise one point to my Muslim friends also.
 rt
 I would like to see my country culturally unified even though
 we may follow different religions. Justas a Hindu and a Sikh or
 a Hindu and a Jain can live in the same family, in the same

 way a Hindu and a Muslim can also live in the same family.
 The Muslims should come forward to make it clear that their
 religion does not compulsorily enjoin on them the slaughter of
 the cow. I have studied a little all the religions. I have read the
 life of Prophet Mohammad Sahib. The Prophet never took beef

 in his life. This is an historic fact. Pandit Thakur Das Bhargava pointed out just now that from
 the time of Akbar to that of Aurangzeb, there was a banon cow

 slaughter. I want to tell you what Babar, the first Moghul
 Emperor told Humayun. He said: "Refrain from cow-slaughter

 to win the hearts of the people of Hindustan." Pandit Thakur Dass Bhargava just now referred to the
 Committee constituted by the Government of India for this

 purpose. It recommended that cow slaughter should be totally
 banned. I admit that the Government will require money for
 the purpose. I want to assure you that there will be no lack of
 money for this purpose. If the allowance given to cattle-pounds
 and Goshalas is realised from the people by law, all the money
 needed would be realised. Even if the Government want to
 impose a new tax for this purpose every citizen of this country
 will be too glad to pay it. Therefore our Government should not
 raise before us the financial bogey sooften raised by the British
 Government. I have travelled a little in this country and I am
 acquainted with the [views of the people.]" 6. Prof. Shibban Lal Saksena has debated at page 574 of

 Constituent Assembly Debates Vol. VII as under: 7. Dr. Raghu Vira has debated at page 575 of Constituent
 rt
 Assembly Debates Vol. VII as under: . 8. Sh. R.V. Dhulekar has debated at page 576 of Constituent

 Assembly Debates Vol. VII as under: 9. Sh. Z.H. Lari has debated at page 577 of Constituent Assembly

 Debates Vol. VII as under: 10. Pandit Thakur Dass Bhargava again debated at page 579 of

 Constituent Assembly Debates Vol. VII as under: 11. Article 48 of the Constitution of India reads as follows: 12. Article 51-A (g) of the Constitution of India reads as follows: 13. The relevant entry No. 15 of the State List in the Seventh

 Schedule of the Constitution of India reads as under: 14. Entry Nos. 17 & 17-B of the Concurrent List in the Seventh
 rt
 Schedule of the Constitution of India reads as under: 15. Their lordships of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Haji Usmanbhai Qureshi and others vs. The State of Gujarat , reported

 in AIR 1986 SC 1213, have upheld that ban put on slaughter of bulls and

 bullocks below 16 years, under clauses (c) and (d) of the Bombay Animal

 Preservation Act is not violative of Article 19(1) (g) of the Constitution. It

 has been held as follows: 16. Their lordships of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of State of Gujarat vs. Mirzapur Moti Kureshi Kassab Jamat and others ,

 reported in (2005) 8 SCC 534, have expanded the scope of Article 48 vis-à- vis Article 51-A. The Hon'ble Supreme Court also discussed the unique

 and essential role of bovine and bovine dung in our economy. Their

 lordships have held as follows: A specie of cattle which is milch or draught for a number of years

 during its span of life is to be included within the said expression. On
 ceasing to be milch or draught it cannot be pulled out from the
 category of "other milch and draught cattle." 80. As we have already indicated, the opinion formed by the
 Constitution Bench of this Court in Quareshi-I is that the restriction

 amounting to total prohibition on slaughter of bulls and bullocks was
 unreasonable and was not in public interest. We, therefore, proceed to
 examine the evidence available on record which would enable us to
 answer questions with regard to the 'reasonability' of the imposed

 restriction qua 'public interest'. 81. The facts contained in the Preamble and the Statement of
 Objects and Reasons in the impugned enactment highlight the
 following facts:- Preservation and protection of agricultural animals like bulls and
 bullocks needs emphasis. With the growing adoption of non- of
 conventional energy sources like biogas plants, even waste material
 have come to assume considerable value. After the cattle cease to
 breed or are too old to work, they still continue to give dung for fuel,
 manure and biogas and, therefore, they cannot be said to be useless.
 rt
 Apart from the fact that we have to assume the above- stated facts as
 to be correct, there is also voluminous evidence available on record to
 support the above said facts. We proceed to notice few such

 documents. 82. Shri J.S. Parikh, Deputy Secretary, Agriculture Cooperative and
 Rural Development, Department, State of Gujarat, filed three
 affidavits in the High Court of Gujarat in Special Civil Application No.

 9991 of 1993. The first affidavit was filed on 20th October, 1993,
 wherein the following facts are discernible and mentioned as under: . (iii) The population of bullock is 27.59 lakhs. Over and above
 agricultural work, bullocks are useful for other purposes also. They
 produce dung which is the best organic measure and is cheaper than
 chemical manure. It is also useful for production of bio-gas. (iv) It is estimated that daily production of manure by bullocks is
 about 27,300 tonnes and bio-gas production daily is about 13.60 cubic
 metres. It is also estimated that the production of bio-gas from

 of
 bullock dung fulfil the daily requirement of 54.78 lakh persons of the
 State if whole dung production is utilized. At present, 1,91,467 bio-gas
 plants are in function in the State and about 3-4 lakhs persons are
 using bio-gas in the State produced by these plants.
 rt (v) The population of farmers in the State is 31.45 lakhs. Out of which
 7.37 lakhs are small farmers, 8 lakhs are marginal farmers, 3.05 lakhs
 are agricultural labourers and 13.03 lakhs are other farmers. The total

 land of Gujarat State is 196 lakh hectares and land under cultivation is
 104.5 lakh hectares. There are 47,800 tractors by which 19.12 lakh
 hectares land is cultivated and the remaining 85.38 lakh hectares land
 is cultivated by using bullocks. It may be mentioned here that all the
 agricultural operations are not done using tractors. The bullocks are

 required for some of agricultural operations along with tractors. There
 are about 7,28,300 bullock carts and there are about 18,35,000
 ploughs run by bullocks in the State. (vi) The figure of slaughter of animals done in 38 recognised slaughter

 houses are as under: The above figures show that the slaughter of bullocks above the age of
 16 years is done in the State in very small number. The animals other
 than bullocks are slaughtered in large number. Hence, the ban on the
 slaughter of cow and cow progeny will not affect the business of meat
 production significantly. Therefore, the persons engaged in this
 profession will not be affected adversely. Thereafter two further affidavits were filed by Shri J.S. Parikh,
 abovesaid, on 17th March, 1998, wherein the following facts are
 mentioned : tractor keeping is not affordable to small farmers. For economic
 rt
 maintenance of tractors, one should have large holding of land. Such
 land holders are only around 10 per cent of the total land holders.
 Hence the farmers with small land holdings require bullocks as

 motive power for their agricultural operations and transport; (iii) the total cultivable land area of Gujarat State is about 124 lakh
 hectares. Considering that a pair of bullocks is required for ploughing
 10 acres of land the bullock requirement for ploughing purpose alone

 is 5.481 million and approximately equal number is required for
 carting. According to the livestock census 1988 of Gujarat State,
 the availability of indigenous bullocks is around 2.84 millions. Thus
 the availability of bullocks as a whole on percentage of requirement
 works out to be about 25 per cent. In this situation, the State has to

 preserve each single bull and bullock that is available to it; (iv) it is estimated that bull or bullock at every stage of life supplies
 3,500 kgs of dung and 2,000 litres of urine and whereas this quantity
 of dung can supply 5,000 cubic feet of biogas, 80 M.T. of organic
 fertilizer, the urine can supply 2,000 litres of pesticides and the use of

 these products in farming increases the yield very substantially. The
 value of above contribution can be placed at Rs.20,000/- per year to
 the owner; (v) since production of various agricultural crops removes plant
 nutrients from the soil, they must be replenished with manures to
 maintain and improve fertility of soil. There are two types of manures
 which are (i) Organic manures, i.e. natural manures and (ii) Artificial
 or chemical fertilizer. Amongst the organic manures, farm yard
 manures is the most valuable organic manure applied to soil. It is the
 most commonly used organic manure in India. It consists of a mixture
 of cattle dung, the bedding used in the stable. Its crop increasing value ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 20:54:57 :::HCHP 23 has been recognized from time immemorial (Ref. Hand Book of
 Agriculture, 1987 by ICAR page 214); . (vi) the importance of organic manure as a source of humus and plant

 nutrients to increase the fertility level of soils has been well
 recognised. The organic matter content of cultivated soils of the
 tropics and sub-tropics is comparatively low due to high temperature
 and intense microbial activity. The crops remove annually large

 quantity of plant nutrients from soil. Moreover, Indian soils are poor
 in organic matter and in major plant nutrients. Therefore, soil humus
 has to be replenished through periodic addition of organic manure for
 maintaining soil productivity; of (vii) animals are the source of free availability of farmyard manure,
 which has all the three elements, i.e. Nitrogen, Phosphoric acid and
 Potash, needed in fertilizer and at the same time which preserve and
 enrich the fertility of the soil. In paucity of dung availability, the
 rt
 farmers have to depend upon chemical fertilizers. Investment in
 chemical fertilizers imposes heavy burden upon the economy. If there
 is availability of alternate source of organic manure from animals, it is

 required to be promoted; (viii) the recent scenario of ultramodern technology of super
 ovulation, embryo transfer and cloning technique will be of very much
 use to propagate further even from the incapable or even old animals

 which are not capable of working or reproducing. These animals on a
 large scale can be used for research programmes as well as for
 production of non-conventional energy sources such as biogas and
 natural fertilizers. At present, there are 19,362 biogas plants installed
 in the State during 1995-97. On an average, each adult cattle produces

 4.00 kg. of dung per day. Out of the total cattle strength of (1992
 Census) 67,85,865, the estimated dung produced is 99,07,363 tonnes; (ix) India has 74% of rural population, and in Gujarat out of 4.13
 crores of human population, there are 1.40 crores of workers which
 comprises of 47,04,000 farmers and 32,31,000 workers are workers

 related to livestock and forestry. In Gujarat, there are 9.24 lakhs
 marginal farmers and 9.15 lakhs of small farmers, according to the
 1991-92 census. Animals are reared in few numbers per family and the
 feed is obtained from the supplementary crop on fodder/agricultural
 by-products or from grazing in the gaucher land. In Gujarat 8.48 lakh
 hectares of land is available as permanent pasture and grazing land.
 An individual cattle-owner does not consider one or two bullocks as
 an extra burden for his family, even when it is incapable of work or
 production. Sometimes the unproductive animals are sent to
 Panjarapoles and Gosadans. In Gujarat, there are 335 Gaushalas and
 174 Panjarapoles which are run by non-governmental oranizations
 and trusts. Formerly farmers mostly kept few animals and, in fact,
 they are treated as part of their family and maintained till death. It ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 20:54:57 :::HCHP 24 cannot be treated to be a liability upon them or burden on the
 economy; . (x) butchers are doing their business since generations, but they are

 not doing only the slaughter of cow class of animals. They slaughter
 and trade the meat of other animals like buffaloes, sheep, goats, pig
 and even poultry. In Gujarat there are only 38 registered slaughter
 houses functioning under various Municipalities/Nagar Panchayats. Beef (meat of cattle) contributes only 1.3% of the total meat groups.
 Proportion of demand for beef is less in the context of demand for pig,
 mutton and poultry meat. Slaughtering of bulls and bullocks for the
 period between 1990-91 and 1993-94 was on an average 9,000; of (xi) number of bullocks have decreased in a decade from 30,70,339 to
 28,93,227 as in 1992. A statement showing the amount of dung
 production for the year 1983-84 to 1996-97 and a statement showing
 the nature of economy of the State of Gujarat is annexed. The number
 rt
 of bullocks slaughtered per day is negligible compared to other
 animals, and the business and/or trade of slaughtering bullocks would
 not affect the business of butchers. By prohibiting slaughter of

 bullocks the economy is likely to be benefited. The three affidavits are supported by documents, statements or tables
 setting out statistics which we have no reason to disbelieve. Neither
 the High Court has expressed any doubt on the contents of the

 affidavit nor has the veracity of the affidavits and correctness of the
 facts stated therein been challenged by the learned counsel for the
 respondents before us. 83. In this Court Shri D.P. Amin, Joint Director of Animal

 Husbandry, Gujarat State, has filed an affidavit. The salient facts
 stated therein are set out hereunder: 1998 shows that slaughter of various categories of animals in
 regulated slaughter houses of Gujarat State has shown a tremendous

 decline. During the year way back in 1982-83 to 1996-97 the average
 number of animals slaughtered in regulated slaughter houses was
 4,39,141. As against that (previous figure) average number of
 slaughter of animals in recent 8 years i.e. from 1997-98 to 2004-05
 has come down to only 2,88,084. This clearly indicates that there has
 been a vast change in the meat eating style of people of Gujarat State.
 It is because of the awareness created among the public due to the
 threats of dangerous diseases like Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy
 commonly known as "Mad Cow disease" B.S.E. which is a fatal disease
 of cattle meat origin not reported in India. Even at global level people
 have stopped eating the beef which is known as meat of cattle class
 animals. This has even affected the trade of meat particularly beef in
 the America & European countries since last 15 years. Therefore, there ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 20:54:57 :::HCHP 25 is international ban on export-import of beef from England, America
 & European countries; . (ii) there is reduction in slaughter of bulls & bullocks above the age of

 16 years reported in the regulated slaughter houses of Gujarat State.
 As reported in the years from 1982-83 to 1996-97, the slaughter of
 bulls & bullocks above the age of 16 years was only 2.48% of the total
 animals of different categories slaughtered in the State. This

 percentage has gone down to the level of only 1.10% during last 8
 years i.e. 1997-98 to 2004-05 which is very less significant to cause or
 affect the business of butcher communities; of (iii) India is predominantly agrarian society with nearly >th of her
 population living in seven lakh rural hamlets and villages, possesses
 small fragmentary holding (54.6% below 1 hectare 18% with 1-2
 hectares). Draft/pack animal contributes more than 5 crores horse
 power (H.P.) or 33,000 megawatt electric power and shares for/in
 rt
 68% of agricultural operations, transport & other draft operations. In
 addition to draft power, 100 million tonnes dung per year improves
 the soil health and also used as raw material for biogas plant; (iv) the cattle population in Gujarat in relation to human population
 has declined from 315 per 1000 humans in 1961 to 146 per 1,000
 humans in 2001 indicating decline in real terms; (v) in Gujarat 3.28 million draft animal (bullocks 85%) have
 multifaceted utilities viz. agricultural operations like ploughing,
 sowing, hoeing, planking, carting, hauling, water lifting, grinding, etc.;
 Gujarat State has a very rich cattle population of Kankrej & Gir breed,
 of which Kankrej bullocks are very well known for its draft power

 called "Savai Chal"; (vi) considering the utility of aged bullocks above 16 years as draft
 power a detailed combined study was carried out by Department of
 Animal Husbandry and Gujarat Agricultural University (Veterinary
 Colleges S.K. Nagar & Anand). The experiments were carried out

 within the age group of 16 to 25 years. The study covered different age
 groups of 156 (78 pairs) bullocks above the age of 16 years. The aged
 bullocks i.e. above 16 years age generated 0.68 horse power draft
 output per bullock while the prime bullock generated 0.83 horse
 power per bullock during carting/hauling draft work in a summer
 with about more than 42?C temp. The study proves that 93% of aged
 bullock above 16 years of age are still useful to farmers to perform
 light & medium draft works. The detailed report is on record; (vii) by the end of year 2004-05 under the Dept. of Animal
 Husbandry, there are 14 Veterinary Polyclinics, 515 Vety.
 Dispensaries, 552 First Aid Vety. Centres and 795 Intensive Cattle
 Development Project Sub Centers. In all, 1876 institutions were made ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 20:54:57 :::HCHP 26 functional to cater various health care activities to livestock
 population of State of Gujarat. About two crores of livestock and
 poultry were vaccinated against various diseases. As a result, the total

 . reported out break of infectious diseases was brought down to around

 106 as against 222 in 1992-1993. This shows that State has created a
 healthy livestock and specifically the longevity of animals has been
 increased. This has also resulted into the increased milk production of
 the state, draft power and source of non-conventional energy in terms

 of increased quantity of dung and urine; (viii) the value of dung is much more than even the famous
 "Kohinoor" diamond. An old bullock gives 5 tonnes of dung and 343

 of
 pounds of urine in a year which can help in the manufacture of 20
 carts load of composed manure. This would be sufficient for manure
 need of 4 acres of land for crop production. The right to life is a
 fundamental right and it can be basically protected only with proper
 food and feeding and cheap and nutritious food grains required for
 feeding can be grown with the help of dung. Thus the most
 rt
 fundamental thing to the fundamental right of living for the human
 being is bovine dung. (Ref. Report of National Commission on Cattle,

 Vol.III, Page 1063-1064); (ix) the dung cake as well as meat of bullock are both commercial
 commodities. If one bullock is slaughtered for its meat (Slaughtering
 activity) can sustain the butchers trade for only a day. For the next
 day's trade another bullock is to be slaughtered. But if the bullock is

 not slaughtered, about 5000-6000 dung cakes can be made out of its
 dung per year, and by the sale of such dung cake one person can be
 sustained for the whole year. If a bullock survives even for five years
 after becoming otherwise useless it can provide employment to a

 person for five years whereas to a butcher, bullock can provide
 employment only for a day or two. (x) Even utility of urine has a great role in the field of pharmaceuticals
 as well as in the manufacturing of pesticides. The Goseva Ayog, Govt.
 of Gujarat had commissioned study for "Testing insecticides

 properties of cow urine against various insect pests". The study was
 carried out by Dr. G.M. Patel, Principal Investigator, Department of
 Entomology, C.P. College of Agriculture, S.D. Agricultural University,
 Sardar Krishi Nagar, Gujarat. The study has established that
 insecticides formulations prepared using cow urine emerged as the
 most reliable treatment for their effectiveness against sucking pest of
 cotton. The conclusion of study is dung & urine of even aged bullocks
 are also useful and have proved major effect of role in the Indian
 economy; (xi) it is stated that availability of fodder is not a problem in the State
 or anywhere. During drought period deficit is compensated by grass-
 bank, silo and purchase of fodder from other States as last resources. The sugarcane tops, leaves of banana, baggase, wheat bhoosa and
 industrial byproducts etc. are available in plenty. A copy of the letter
 dated 8.3.2004 indicting sufficient fodder for the year 2004,

 . addressed to Deputy Commissioner, Animal Husbandry Government

 of India is annexed. Report on draughtability of bullocks above 16 years of age 84. On 20th June, 2001 the State of Gujarat filed I.A. No. 2/2001
 in Civil Appeal Nos. 4937-4940 of 1998, duly supported by an
 affidavit sworn by Shri D.U. Parmar, Deputy Secretary (Animal
 Husbandry) Agriculture and Cooperation Department, Government of

 of
 Gujarat, annexing therewith a report on draughtability of aged
 bullocks above 16 years of age under field conditions. The study was
 conducted by the Gujarat Agricultural University Veterinary College,
 Anand and the Department of Animal Husbandry, Gujarat State,
 Ahmedabad. The study was planned with two objectives: 85. Empirical research was carried out under field conditions in

 North Gujarat Region (described as Zone-I) and Saurashtra region
 (described as Zone-II). The average age of aged bullocks under the
 study was 18.75 years. The number of bullocks/pair used under the
 study were sufficient to draw sound conclusions from the study. The
 gist of the findings arrived at, is summed up as under: Thus, the agricultural operations-draft output are still being taken up
 from the aged bullocks by the farmers. The farmers feed concentrates,
 green fodders and dry fodders to these aged bullocks and maintain the
 health of these animals considering them an important segment of
 their families. Farmers love their bullocks. 2. Age, body measurement and body weight ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 20:54:57 :::HCHP 28 The biometric and body weight of aged bullocks were within the
 normal range. . 3. Horsepower generation/Work output

 The aged bullocks on an average generated 0.68 hp/bullock, i.e.18.1%
 less than the prime/young bullocks (0.83 hp/bullock). The aged
 bullocks walked comfortably with an average stride length of 1.43

 meter and at the average speed of 4.49 km/hr. showing little less than
 young bullocks. However, these values were normal for the aged
 bullocks performing light/medium work of carting. These values were
 slightly lower than those observed in case of prime or young bullocks. of
 This clearly indicates that the aged bullocks above 16 years of age
 proved their work efficiency for both light as well as medium work in
 spite of the age bar. In addition to this, the experiment was conducted
 during the months of May-June, 2000 a stressful summer season.
 Therefore, these bullocks could definitely generate more work output
 rt
 during winter, being a comfortable season. The aged bullock above 16
 years of age performed satisfactorily and disproved that they are unfit
 for any type of draft output i.e. either agricultural operations, carting

 or other works. 4. Physiological responses and haemoglobin concentration

 These aged bullocks are fit to work for 6 hours (morning 3 hours +

 afternoon 3 hrs.) per day. Average Hb content (g%) at the start of
 work was observed to be 10.72 g% and after 3 hours of work 11.14g%,
 indicating the healthy state of bullocks. The increment in the
 haemoglobin content after 3 to 4 hours of work was also within the
 normal range and in accordance with prime bullocks under study as

 well as the reported values for working bullocks. 5. Distress symptoms In the initial one hour of work, 6 bullocks
 (3.8%) showed panting, while 32.7% after one hour of work. After 2
 hour of work, 28.2% of bullocks exhibited salivation. Only 6.4% of the
 bullocks sat down/lied down and were reluctant to work after

 completing 2 hours of the work. The results are indicative of the fact
 that majority of the aged bullocks (93%) worked normally. Summer
 being a stressful season, the aged bullocks exhibited distress
 symptoms earlier than the prime/young bullocks. However, they
 maintained their physiological responses within normal range and
 generated satisfactory draught power. 86. The study report submitted its conclusions as under: 87. With the report, the study group annexed album/photographs
 and cassettes prepared while carrying out the study. Several tables
 and statements setting out relevant statistics formed part of the

 report. A list of 16 authentic references originating from eminent
 authors on the subject under study which were referred to by the
 study group was appended to the report. 88. This application (I.A. No. 2/2001) was allowed and the

 affidavit taken on record vide order dated 20.8.2001 passed by this
 Court. No response has been filed by any of the respondents

 controverting the facts stated in the affidavit and the accompanying
 report. We have no reason to doubt the correctness of the facts stated
 therein; more so, when it is supported by the affidavit of a responsible
 officer of the State Government. Tenth Five Year Plan (2002-2007) Documents 89. In the report of the Working Group on Animal Husbandry and
 Dairy Farming, the Tenth Five Year Plan (2002-2007) dealing with
 'the draught breed relevance and improvement', published by the
 Government of India, Planning Commission in January, 2001, facts
 are stated in great detail pointing out the relevance of draught breeds
 and setting out options for improvement from the point of view of the
 Indian Economy. We extract and reproduce a few of the facts
 therefrom: 90. Recognising the fact that the cow and its progeny has a
 significant role to play in the agricultural and rural economy of the ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 20:54:57 :::HCHP 31 country, the Government felt that it was necessary to formulate
 measures for their development in all possible ways. In view of the
 persistent demands for action to be taken to prevent their slaughter,

 . the Government also felt and expressed the need to review the

 relevant laws of the land relating to protection, preservation,
 development and well-being of cattle and to take measures to secure
 the cattle wealth of India. 91. Yet another document to which we are inclined to make a
 reference is Mid-Term Appraisal of 10th Five Year Plan (2002- 2007)
 released in June, 2005 by the Government of India (Planning
 Commission). Vide para 5.80 the report recommends that efforts

 of
 should be made to increase the growth of bio- pesticides production
 from 2.5 to 5 per cent over the next five years. 92. According to the report, Organic farming is a way of farming
 which excludes the use of chemical fertilizers, insecticides, etc. and is
 rt
 primarily based on the principles of use of natural organic inputs and
 biological plant protection measures. 93. Properly managed organic farming reduces or eliminates water
 pollution and helps conserve water and soil on the farm and thereby
 enhances sustainability and agro-biodiversity. 94. Organic farming has become popular in many western

 countries. There are two major driving forces behind this
 phenomenon; growing global market for organic agricultural produce
 due to increased health consciousness; and the premium price of
 organic produce fetched by the producers. 95. India has a comparative advantage over many other countries. 96. The Appraisal Report acknowledged the commencement of the
 biogas programme in India since 1981-82. Some 35,24,000 household
 plants have been installed against an assessed potential of 120,00,000
 units. 97. Biogas has traditionally been produced in India from cow dung
 (gobar gas). However, dung is not adequately and equitably available
 in villages. Technologies have now been developed for using tree-
 based organic substrates such as leaf litter, seed starch, seed cakes,
 vegetable wastes, kitchen wastes etc. for production of biogas. Besides
 cooking, biogas can also be used to produce electricity in dual fired
 diesel engines or in hundred per cent gas engines. Ministry of Non-
 conventional Energy Sources (MNES) is taking initiatives to integrate
 biogas programme in its Village Energy Security Program (VESP). 98. Production of pesticides and biogas depend on the availability
 of cow-dung. National Commission on Cattle 99. Vide its Resolution dated 2nd August, 2001, the Government of

 . India established a National Commission on Cattle, comprising of 17

 members. 100. The Commission was given the follow terms of reference:- 101. The Committee after extensive research has given a list of
 recommendations. A few of them relevant in the present case are:- 102. Thus the Commission is of the view that there should be a
 complete prohibition on slaughter of cow progeny. Importance of Bovine Dung 103. The Report of the National Commission on Cattle, ibid, refers
 to an authority namely, Shri Vasu in several sub- paragraphs of para

 of 12. Shri Vasu has highlighted the unique and essential role of bovine
 and bovine dung in our economy and has pleaded that slaughter of
 our precious animals should be stopped. He has in extenso dealt with
 several uses of dung and its significance from the point of view of
 Indian society. Dung is a cheap and harmless fertilizer in absence
 rt
 whereof the farmers are forced to use costly and harmful chemical
 fertilizers. Dung also has medicinal value in Ayurved, the Indian
 system of medicines. Continuing Utility of Cattle : Similar is the case with other cattle as well. rescued while being carried to slaughter houses. Very few of such cows

 are milk yielding. Such organizations use the urine and dung
 produced by these cows to prepare Vermi-compost or any other form
 of bio manure and urine for preparing pest repellents. The money
 collected by the sale of such products is normally sufficient to allow

 maintenance of the cows. In some cases, the urine and dung is used to
 prepare the medical formulations also. The organizations, which are
 engaged in such activities, are making profits also. of
 37.2 Commission examined the balance sheet of some such
 organizations. The expenditure and income of one such organization
 is displayed here. In order to make accounts simple the amounts are
 calculated as average per cow per day. rt
 It is obvious that expenditure per cow is Rs. 15-25 cow/day. While the income from sale is Rs. 25-35 cow-day. 37.3 These averages make it clear that the belief that cows which do
 not yield milk are unprofitable and burden for the owner is totally
 false. In fact it can be said that products of cow are sufficient to
 maintain them even without milk. The milk in such cases is only a by- product. 37.4 It is obvious that all cow owners do not engage in productions of
 fertilizers or insect repellents. It can also be understood that such
 activity may not be feasible for owners of a single or a few cows. In

 such cases, the cow's urine and dung may be supplied to such
 organizations, which utilize these materials for producing finished

 products required for agricultural or medicinal purpose. Commission
 has noticed that some organizations which are engaged in production
 of agricultural and medical products from cow dung and urine do
 purchase raw materials from nearby cow owner at a price which is

 sufficient to maintain the cow." (Report of National Commission on
 Cattle, July 2002, Vol. II, pp.68-69) 106. A host of other documents have been filed originating from
 different sources such as Governmental or Semi-governmental,
 NGOs, individuals or group of individuals, who have carried out
 researches and concluded that world-over there is an awareness in
 favour of organic farming for which cattle are indispensable.
 However, we do not propose to refer to these documents as it would
 only add to the length of the judgment. We have, apart from the
 affidavits, mainly referred to the reports published by the
 Government of India, whose veracity cannot be doubted. 107. We do not find any material brought on record on behalf of the
 respondents which could rebut, much less successfully, the
 correctness of the deductions flowing from the documented facts and

 . statistics stated hereinabove. 108. The utility of cow cannot be doubted at all. A total ban on cow
 slaughter has been upheld even in Quareshi-I. The controversy in the
 present case is confined to cow progeny. The important role that cow

 and her progeny play in the Indian Economy was acknowledged in
 Quareshi-I in the following words: 109. On the basis of the available material, we are fully satisfied to
 hold that the ban on slaughter of cow progeny as imposed by the
 impugned enactment is in the interests of the general public within
 the meaning of clause (6) of Article 19 of the Constitution. 128. In the first and second Five Year Plans (Quareshi-I era), there
 was scarcity of food which reflected India's panic. The concept of food
 security has since then undergone considerable change. 129. 47 years since, it is futile to think that meat originating from
 cow progeny can be the only staple food or protein diet for the poor
 population of the country. 'India Vision 2020' (ibid, Chapter 3) deals
 with 'Food Security and Nutrition : Vision 2020'. We cull out a few
 relevant findings and observations therefrom and set out in brief in
 the succeeding paragraphs. Food availability and stability were
 considered good measures of food security till the Seventies and the
 achievement of self-sufficiency was accorded high priority in the food ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 20:54:57 :::HCHP 36 policies. Though India was successful in achieving self-sufficiency by
 increasing its food production, it could not solve the problem of
 chronic household food insecurity. This necessitated a change in

 . approach and as a result food energy intake at household level is now

 given prominence in assessing food security. India is one of the few
 countries which have experimented with a broad spectrum of
 programmes for improving food security. It has already made
 substantial progress in terms of overcoming transient food insecurity

 by giving priority to self-sufficiency in foodgrains, employment
 programmes, etc. The real problem, facing India, is not the availability
 of food, staple food and protein rich diet; the real problem is its
 unequal distribution. The real challenge comes from the slow growth

 of
 of purchasing power of the people and lack of adequate employment
 opportunities. Another reason for lack of food and nutrient intake
 through cereal consumption is attributable to changes in consumer
 tastes and preferences towards superior food items as the incomes of
 the household increases. Empirical evidence tends to suggest a
 positive association between the calorie intake and nutritional status.
 rt
 The responsiveness is likely to be affected by the factors relating to
 health and environment. It is unclear as to how much of the
 malnutrition is due to an inadequate diet and how much due to the

 environment. 137. For multiple reasons which we have stated in very many details
 while dealing with Question-6 in Part II of the judgment, we have
 found that bulls and bullocks do not become useless merely by

 crossing a particular age. The Statement of Objects and Reasons,
 apart from other evidence available, clearly conveys that cow and her
 progeny constitute the backbone of Indian agriculture and economy.
 The increasing adoption of non-conventional energy sources like Bio- gas plants justify the need for bulls and bullocks to live their full life in
 spite of their having ceased to be useful for the purpose of breeding

 and draught. This Statement of Objects and Reasons tilts the balance
 in favour of the constitutional validity of the impugned enactment. In
 Quareshi-I the Constitution Bench chose to bear it in mind, while
 upholding the constitutionality of the legislations impugned therein,

 insofar as the challenge by reference to Article 14 was concerned, that
 "the legislature correctly appreciates the needs of its own people".
 Times have changed; so have changed the social and economic needs.
 The Legislature has correctly appreciated the needs of its own people
 and recorded the same in the Preamble of the impugned enactment
 and the Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to it. In the light
 of the material available in abundance before us, there is no escape
 from the conclusion that the protection conferred by impugned
 enactment on cow progeny is needed in the interest of Nation's
 economy. Merely because it may cause 'inconvenience' or some
 'dislocation' to the butchers, restriction imposed by the impugned
 enactment does not cease to be in the interest of the general public.
 The former must yield to the latter. 138. According to Shri M.S. Swaminathan, the eminent Farm
 Scientist, neglect of the farm sector would hit our economy hard.
 According to him "Today, global agriculture is witnessing two

 . opposite trends. In many South Asian countries, farm size is

 becoming smaller and smaller and farmers suffer serious handicaps
 with reference to the cost-risk-return structure of agriculture. In
 contrast, the average farm size in most industrialized countries is over
 several hundred hectares and farmers are supported by heavy inputs

 of technology, capital and subsidy. The on-going Doha round of
 negotiations of the World Trade Organisation in the field of
 agriculture reflects the polarization that has taken place in the basic
 agrarian structure of industrialized and developing countries. of
 Farming as a way of life is disappearing and is giving way to
 agribusiness." (K.R. Narayanan Oration delivered by Dr.
 Swaminathan at the Australian National University, Canberra,
 published in 'The Hindu', October 17, 2005, p.10) "In India, nearly
 600 million individuals are engaged in farming and over 80 per cent
 of them belong to the small and marginal farmer categories. Due to
 rt
 imperfect adaptation to local environments, insufficient provision of
 nutrients and water, and incomplete control of pests, diseases and
 weeds, the present average yields of major farming systems in India is

 just 40 per cent of what can be achieved even with the technologies
 currently on the shelf. There is considerable scope for further
 investment in land improvement through drainage, terracing, and
 control of acidification, in areas where these have not already been
 introduced." (ibid) 139. Thus, the eminent scientist is very clear that excepting the
 advanced countries which have resorted to large scale mechanized
 farming, most of the countries (India included) have average farms of

 small size. Majority of the population is engaged in farming within
 which a substantial proportion belong to small and marginal farmers

 category. Protection of cow progeny will help them in carrying out
 their several agricultural operations and related activities smoothly
 and conveniently. Organic manure would help in controlling pests and
 acidification of land apart from resuscitating and stimulating the

 environment as a whole." 17. Their lordships of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of

 Ramlila Maidan Incident, in re, reported in (2012) 5 SCC 1, have held

 that the Constitution does not merely speak of human rights protection. It

 also speaks of preservation and protection of man as well as animals, all

 creatures, plants, rivers, hills and environment. It has been held as

 follows: 18. Their lordships of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Animal Welfare Board of India vs. A. Nagaraja and ors., reported in

 (2014) 7 SCC 547, have held that there are five internationally recognized

 freedoms of animals; i) freedom from hunger, thirst and malnutrition; ii)

 freedom from fear and distress; iii) freedom from physical and thermal

 discomfort; iv) freedom from pain, injury and disease; and v) freedom to

 express normal patterns of behaviour. Their lordships have further held

 that every species has an inherent right to live and shall be protected by ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 20:54:57 :::HCHP 39 law, subject to the exception provided out of necessity. Article 21 of the

 Constitution, while safeguarding the rights of humans, protects life and the

 . word "life" has been given an expanded definition and any disturbance

 from the basic environment which includes all forms of life, including

 animal life, which are necessary for human life, fall within the meaning of Article 21 of the Constitution. So far as animals are concerned, "life" means

 of
 something more than mere survival or existence or instrumental value for

 human-beings, but to lead a life with some intrinsic worth, honour and

 dignity. Dignity of animals under the Indian Constitution is also duly
 rt
 recognized. It has been held as follows: In our view, this is the culture and tradition of the country,
 particularly the States of Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra. 56. PCA Act has been enacted with an object to safeguard the welfare
 of the animals and evidently to cure some mischief and age old
 practices, so as to bring into effect some type of reform, based on eco-
 centric principles, recognizing the intrinsic value and worth of
 animals. All the same, the Act has taken care of the religious practices
 of the community, while killing an animal vide Section 28 of the Act. INTERNATIONAL APPROACH TO ANIMALS WELFARE 57. We may, at the outset, indicate unfortunately, there is no

 . international agreement that ensures the welfare and protection of

 animals. United Nations, all these years, safeguarded only the rights
 of human beings, not the rights of other species like animals, ignoring
 the fact that many of them, including Bulls, are sacrificing their lives
 to alleviate human suffering, combating diseases and as food for

 human consumption. International community should hang their
 head in shame, for not recognizing their rights all these ages, a species
 which served the humanity from the time of Adam and Eve. Of course,
 there has been a slow but observable shift from the anthropocentric

 of
 approach to a more nature's right centric approach in International
 Environmental Law, Animal Welfare Laws etc. Environmentalist
 noticed three stages in the development of international
 environmental law instrument, which are as under: 57.2 Some the instruments executed during this time included the
 Declaration of the Protection of Birds Useful to Agriculture (1875),

 Convention Designed to Ensure the Protection of Various Species of
 Wild Animals which are Useful to Man or Inoffensive (1900),
 Convention for the Regulation of Whaling (1931) which had the
 objective of ensuring the health of the whaling industry rather than
 conserving or protecting the whale species. 57.3 The attitude behind these treaties was the assertion of an

 unlimited right to exploit natural resources - which derived from
 their right as sovereign nations. (b) The Second Stage: International Equity

 57.4 This stage saw the extension of treaties beyond the requirements
 of the present generation to also meet the needs to future generations
 of human beings. This shift signalled a departure from the pure tenets
 of anthropocentrism. 57.5 For example, the 1946 Whaling Convention which built upon the
 1931 treaty mentioned in the preamble that "it is in the interest of the
 nations of the world to safeguard for future generations the great
 natural resource represented by the whale stocks". Similarly, the
 Stockholm Declaration of the UN embodied this shift in thinking,
 stating that "man ...... bears a solemn responsibility to protect and
 improve the environment for present and future generations" and ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 20:54:57 :::HCHP 41 subsequently asserts that "the natural resources of the earth .... must
 be safeguarded for the benefit of present and future generations
 through careful planning and management". Other documents

 . expressed this shift in terms of sustainability and sustainable

 development. (c) The Third Stage: Nature's own rights

 57.6 Recent Multinational instruments have asserted the intrinsic
 value of nature. 57.7 UNEP Biodiversity Convention (1992) "Conscious of the intrinsic

 of
 value of biological diversity and of the ecological, genetic, social,
 economic, educational, cultural, recreational and aesthetic values of
 biological diversity and its components .... [we have] agreed as
 follows:......". The World Charter for Nature proclaims that "every
 form of life is unique, warranting respect regardless of its worth to
 rt
 man." The Charter uses the term "nature" in preference to
 "environment" with a view to shifting to non-anthropocentric human-
 independent terminology." 58. We have accepted and applied the eco-centric principles in T. N.
 Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India and Others ( 2012) 3 SCC
 277, T. N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India and
 Others (2012) 4 SCC 362 and in Centre for Environmental Law World

 Wide Fund - India v. Union of India and Others (2013) 8 SCC 234. 59. Based on eco-centric principles, rights of animals have been
 recognized in various countries. Protection of animals has been
 guaranteed by the Constitution of Germany by way of an amendment

 in 2002 when the words "and the animals" were added to the
 constitutional clauses that obliges 'state' to respect 'animal dignity'. Therefore, the dignity of the animals is constitutionally recognised in
 that country. German Animal Welfare Law, especially Article
 3provides far-reaching protections to animals including inter alia
 from animals fight and other activities which may result in the pain,

 suffering and harm for the animals. Countries like Switzerland,
 Austria, Slovenia have enacted legislations to include animal welfare
 in their national Constitutions so as to balance the animal owners'
 fundamental rights to property and the animals' interest in freedom
 from unnecessary suffering or pain, damage and fear. 60. Animals Welfare Act of 2006 (U.K.) also confers considerable
 protection to the animals from pain and suffering. The Austrian
 Federal Animal Protection Act also recognises man's responsibilities
 towards his fellow creatures and the subject " Federal Act " aims at the
 protection of life and well being of the animals. The Animal Welfare
 Act, 2010 (Norway) states "animals have an intrinsic value which is
 irrespective of the usable value they may have for man. Animals shall ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 20:54:57 :::HCHP 42 be treated well and be protected from the danger of unnecessary
 stress and strain. Section 26 of the Legislation prohibits training an
 animal to fight with people, the operative portion of the same reads as

 . follows : 61. When we look at the rights of animals from the national and
 international perspective, what emerges is that every species has an
 inherent right to live and shall be protected by law, subject to the
 rt
 exception provided out of necessity. Animal has also honour and
 dignity which cannot be arbitrarily deprived of and its rights and
 privacy have to be respected and protected from unlawful attacks. 62. Universal Declaration of Animal Welfare (UDAW) is a campaign
 led by World Society for the Protection of Animals (WSPA) in an
 attempt to secure international recognition for the principles of
 animal welfare. UDAW has had considerable support from various

 countries, including India. WSPA believes that the world should look
 to the success of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR)
 to set out what UDAW can achieve for animals. Five freedoms
 referred to in UDAW, which we will deal with in latter part of the
 judgment, find support in PCA Act and the rules framed thereunder to

 a great extent. 63. World Health Organization of Animal Health (OIE), of which
 India is a member, acts as the international reference organisation for
 animal health and animal welfare. OIE has been recognised as a
 reference organisation by the World Trade Organisation (WTO) and,

 in the year 2013, it has a total of 178 member countries. On animal
 welfare, OIE says that an animal is in good state of welfare if (as
 indicated by Scientific evidence) it is healthy, comfortable, well
 nourished, safe, able to express innate behaviour and if it is not
 suffering from unpleasant states such as pain, fear and distress. FREEDOM: 64. Chapter 7.1.2 of the guidelines of OIE, recognizes five
 internationally recognized freedoms for animals, such as: . iv) freedom from pain, injury and disease; and v) freedom to express normal patterns of behaviour. Food and Agricultural Organisation (FAO) in its "Legislative and
 Regulatory Options for Animal Welfare" indicated that these five
 freedoms found their place in Farm Welfare Council 2009 U.K. and is

 of
 also called Brambell's Five Freedoms. These five freedoms, as already
 indicated, are considered to be the fundamental principles of animal
 welfare and we can say that these freedoms find a place in Sections
 rt
 3 and 11 of PCA Act and they are for animals like the rights guaranteed
 to the citizens of this country under Part III of the Constitution of

 India. 65. Animals are world-wide legally recognised as 'property' that can
 be possessed by humans. On deletion of Article 19(1)(f) from the

 Indian Constitution, right to property is more a fundamental right in
 India, this gives the Parliament more a leeway to pass laws protecting
 the rights of animals. Right to hold on to a property which includes

 animals also, is now only a legal right not a fundamental right. We
 have also to see the rights of animals in that perspective as well. 66. Rights guaranteed to the animals under Sections 3 , 11 , etc. are

 only statutory rights. The same have to be elevated to the status of
 fundamental rights, as has been done by few countries around the
 world, so as to secure their honour and dignity. Rights and freedoms
 guaranteed to the animals under Sections 3 and 11 have to be read
 along with Article 51A(g)(h) of the Constitution, which is the magna
 carta of animal rights. 69. Speciesism as a concept coined by Richard Ryder in his various
 works on the attitude to animals, like Animal Revolution, Changing ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 20:54:57 :::HCHP 44 Attitudes towards Speciesism (Oxford: Basil Blackwell, 1989), Animal
 Welfare and the Environment (London: Gerald Duckworth, 1992) etc.

 . Oxford English Dictionary defines the term as "the assumption of

 human superiority over other creatures, leading to the exploitation of
 animals". Speciesism is also described as the widespread
 discrimination that is practised by man against the other species, that

 is a prejudice or attitude of bias towards the interest of members of
 one's own species and against those of members of other species. of
 Speciesism as a concept used to be compared with Racism and Sexism
 on the ground that all those refer to discrimination that tend to
 promote or encourage domination and exploitation of members of
 one group by another. One school of thought is that Castism, Racism
 rt
 and Sexism are biological classification, since they are concerned with
 physical characteristics, such as, discrimination on the ground of

 caste, creed, religion, colour of the skin, reproductive role etc. rather
 than with physical properties, such as the capacity for being harmed
 or benefited. 70. We have got over those inequalities like Castism, Racism, Sexism
 etc. through Constitutional and Statutory amendments, like Articles

 14 to 17, 19, 29 and so on. So far as animals are concerned, Section 3 of
 the Act confers right on animals so also rights under Section 11 not to

 be subjected to cruelty. When such statutory rights have been
 conferred on animals, we can always judge as to whether they are

 being exploited by human-beings. As already indicated, an
 enlightened society, of late, condemned slavery, racism, castism,
 sexism etc. through constitutional amendments, laws etc. but, though
 late, through PCA Act , Parliament has recognized the rights of
 animals, of course, without not sacrificing the interest of human
 beings under the Doctrine of necessity, like experiments on animals
 for the purpose of advancement by new discovery of physiological
 knowledge or of knowledge which will be useful for saving or for
 prolonging life or alleviating suffering or for combating any disease, ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 20:54:57 :::HCHP 45 whether of human beings, animals or plants and also destruction of
 animals for food under Section 11(3) of the PCA Act. Legislature

 . through Section 28also saved the manner of killing of animals in the

 manner prescribed by religions, those are, in our view, reasonable
 restrictions on the rights enjoyed by the animals under Section 3 read
 with Section 11(1) . Evidently, those restrictions are the direct

 inevitable consequences or the effects which could be said to have
 been in the contemplation of the legislature for human benefit, since

 of
 they are unavoidable. Further, animals like Cows, Bulls etc. are all
 freely used for farming, transporting loads etc., that too, for the
 benefit of human beings, thereby subjecting them to some pain and
 suffering which is also unavoidable, but permitted by the Rules
 rt
 framed under the PCA Act . NON-ESSENTIAL ACTIVITIES: rt
 means something more than mere survival or existence or
 instrumental value for human-beings, but to lead a life with some

 intrinsic worth, honour and dignity. Animals' well-being and welfare
 have been statutorily recognised under Sections 3 and 11of the Act and
 the rights framed under the Act. Right to live in a healthy and clean

 atmosphere and right to get protection from human beings against
 inflicting unnecessary pain or suffering is a right guaranteed to the
 animals under Sections 3 and 11 of the PCA Act read with Article

 51A(g) of the Constitution. Right to get food, shelter is also a
 guaranteed right under Sections 3 and 11 of the PCA Act and the Rules

 framed thereunder, especially when they are domesticated. Right to
 dignity and fair treatment is, therefore, not confined to human beings

 alone, but to animals as well. Right, not to be beaten, kicked, over-
 ridder, over-loading is also a right recognized by Section 11 read
 withSection 3 of the PCA Act . Animals have also a right against the
 human beings not to be tortured and against infliction of unnecessary
 pain or suffering. Penalty for violation of those rights are insignificant,
 since laws are made by humans. Punishment prescribed in Section
 11(1) is not commensurate with the gravity of the offence, hence being
 violated with impunity defeating the very object and purpose of the
 Act, hence the necessity of taking disciplinary action against those ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 20:54:57 :::HCHP 47 officers who fail to discharge their duties to safeguard the statutory
 rights of animals under the PCA Act ." . 19. Their lordships of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Shakti Prasad Nayak vs. Union of India & ors., reported in (2014) 15

 SCC 514, have restrained State of West Bengal from taking any step to

 administer any kind of contraceptives or introducing any method of

 of
 sterilization which hinders natural procreative process of elephants or any

 wildlife. It has been held as follows: 20. It is evident from the combined reading of Articles 48 and 51-

 A(g) of the Constitution of India that the citizen must show compassion to

 the animal kingdom. The animals have their own fundamental rights. Article 48 specifically lays down that the State shall endeavour to prohibit

 the slaughter of cows and calves, other milch and draught cattle. This ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 20:54:57 :::HCHP 48 Court has issued numerous directions to the respondents on 7.10.2014,

 8.1.2015, 2.5.2015, 14.10.2015 and 2.3.2016 in this regard. . 21. In sequel to the directions issued by this Court on 2.3.2016,

 the Superintendent of Police, Kangra at Dharamshala has filed the

 affidavit. According to the averments contained in the affidavit, FIR No.

 332/2015 dated 14.10.2015, FIR No. 346/2015 dated 24.10.2015, FIR No.

 of
 354/2015 dated 2.11.2015, FIR No. 238/2015 dated 22.11.2015, FIR No.

 105/2014 dated 28.12.2014, FIR No. 112/2015 dated 3.12.2015, FIR No.

 45/2015 dated 12.3.2015 and FIR No. 103/2015 dated 21.4.2015 have
 rt
 been registered under Section 11 of Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, Sections 279 , 336 , 337 and 429 IPC and Section 187 M.V. Act against the

 accused. The challans have also been presented in the Courts. The

 Superintendent of Police, Kangra has undertaken to comply with the

 directions issued by this Court from time to time in letter and spirit. 22. The Superintendent of Police, Police District Baddi, Distt. Solan, has also filed the affidavit. According to the averments contained in

 the affidavit, all the SHOs and IOs in the Police district have been directed

 to keep strict vigil to trace persons who abandon their animals and to take

 action against them according to the directions issued by this Court. FIR

 No. 18/15 dated 15.4.2015 has been registered under Section 429 IPC and Section 11 of Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960 and Section 8 of

 the H.P. Prohibition of Cow Slaughter Act, 1979 at Ramshehar and two

 accused were arrested. The charge sheet has been filed on 2.4.2016. One

 FIR No. 80/2016 dated 2.4.2016 stood registered with PS Baddi under ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 20:54:57 :::HCHP 49 Section 11(1) (D) of Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960 and three

 persons were arrested. Challan has been filed in the Court of JMIC,

 . Nalagarh on 25.4.2016. Two stray cows were handed over to "Gaushala" at

 Satiwala-Barotiwala and entry to this effect was made in daily diary vide

 entry No. 34 dated 30.3.2015 and daily diary No. 33 dated 24.4.2015 at

 Police Station Barotiwala. of 23. The Superintendent of Police, Sirmaur at Nahan has filed an

 affidavit. According to the averments contained in the affidavit, directions

 have been issued to the Police functionaries especially at district entry and
 rt
 exit points to ensure that no kind of violation of Transportation of Animals

 Rules takes place in the district and is being ensured through the SHOs

 regularly. During the year 2015, total 13 cases have been registered in

 district Sirmaur against the violators/offenders under the various sections

 of IPC, Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960 , H.P. Prohibition of Cow

 Slaughter Act, 1979 and H.P. Police Act, 2007 . 12 cases have been

 presented in the Court, out of which one case has been decided and 11

 cases are pending trial. 24. The Superintendent of Police, Kullu has also filed an affidavit

 in pursuance to the directions issued by this Court. According to the

 averments contained in the affidavit, strict vigil is being kept in his district

 on the defaulters/violators of rules for the transportation of animals. Naka/Patrolling parties and officials have been deputed for traffic duty and

 briefed/instructed regularly to keep strict vigil in the area. 25. The Superintendent of Police, Hamirpur has also filed an

 affidavit in pursuance to the directions issued by this Court. According to

 . the averments contained in the affidavit, it was found that 14 cows and

 calves were being transported in a truck without following the rules for

 transportation of animals. Three violators have been booked under Section

 114 / 115 of H.P. Police Act, 2007 and cows and calves have been released

 of
 from the truck. No case of slaughtering, cause or cause to be slaughtered,

 or offer, or cause to be offered for slaughter, any cow/calf has come into

 the notice of the police in his district. rt 26. The Superintendent of Police, Kinnaur District at Reckong Peo

 has filed an affidavit. According to the averments contained in the

 affidavit, strict vigil is being kept on the defaulters/violators in the District. Two cases were registered against the defaulters and FIR Nos. 63/2014

 and 8/2016 have been registered and challans have been put up in the

 Court. 27. The Superintendent of Police, Lahaul Spiti at Keylong has also

 filed an affidavit in pursuance to the directions issued by this Court. According to the averments contained in the affidavit, the SHOs, IOs and

 field functionaries have been directed to maintain strict vigil on all vehicles

 in which animals and poultry are being transported as per the transport of

 Animal Rules, 1978. 28. According to the affidavit filed by the Superintendent of Police,

 Una, 10 cases were registered in the district under the Prevention of

 Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960 . No case was registered under Section 11 D ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 20:54:57 :::HCHP 51 of Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960 till the date of filing of the

 affidavit. . 29. The Superintendent of Police, Shimla has also filed an

 affidavit. According to the averments contained in the affidavit, necessary

 directions have been issued to the subordinate functionaries as per the

 orders passed by this Court. FIR No. 6/2016 PS Sunni and another FIR

 of
 No. 37/2016 was registered at PS Dhalli under Prevention of Cruelty to

 Animals Act, 1960 . The final report has been presented before the trial

 Court. rt 30. The Superintendent of Police, Solan has also filed an affidavit. According to the averments contained in the affidavit, one FIR was

 registered at PS Arki and another at Darlaghat and charge sheet has been

 filed. 31. The Superintendent of Police, Chamba, has also filed an

 affidavit. According to the averments contained in the affidavit, FIRs have

 been registered against the accused under the Prohibition of Cow Slaughter

 Act, 1979. The in-charge of traffic check posts/barriers have been directed

 to comply with the directions issued by this Court. 32. According to the affidavit filed by the Superintendent of Police,

 Mandi, the orders passed by this Court were circulated to all the

 supervisory officers. The directions were issued to remove stray animals

 from the National Highway and make arrangements for their transportation

 to nearest "Gaushalas" to ensure safe, free and smooth flow of traffic. 11 ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 20:54:57 :::HCHP 52 cases have been registered under the provisions of Section 11 of Prevention

 of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960 and Sections 289 and 429 IPC. . 33. All the Superintendents of Police throughout the State of

 Himachal Pradesh are directed to comply with the directions issued by this

 Court from time to time in letter and spirit and to ensure timely

 presentation of challans before the Courts of law. of 34. In the affidavit filed by the Deputy Commissioner, Una, in

 sequel to directions issued by this Court on 2.3.2016, it is reported that all

 the BDOs in Una District have been appointed as Nodal Officers to expedite
 rt
 the construction work of each "Gaushala". A meeting was convened on

 10.3.2016 by the Deputy Commissioner. The meeting was again convened

 on 21.3.2016 in which the Executive Officer, Municipal committee, Una,

 Mehatpur and Gagret were directed to complete the construction work of

 gausadans within three months as per the directions issued by this Court. The meeting was also convened on 7.4.2016 by the Deputy Commissioner,

 Una in which SDO(C) Amb was directed to transfer the land for the

 establishment of new Gausadan and also ensure its construction work to

 be done expeditiously. A detailed report was sought from the District

 Revenue Officer, Una and in total 92 cases, land has been transferred for

 the construction of New Gausadan in Distt. Una and no case is pending

 with him. The Secretary, Nagar Panchayat Daulatpur Chowk had also

 identified the land for establishment of Gausadan. He has intimated on

 10.5.2016 that the land has been identified by him at Gram Sabha

 Gondpur Banehra Lower and Gram Sabha Nangal Jarialan for ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 20:54:57 :::HCHP 53 establishment of new Gausadan and NOC has also been received by him

 from the concerned Gram Panchayat. The proposal of land transfer for

 . establishment of new Gausadan at Nagar Panchayat, Daulatpur Chowk

 would be put up shortly to him. Now, as far as Gausadan at Gagret is

 concerned, land has already been transferred vide order dated 10.12.2015. According to the affidavit, there was need for new Gausadan at

 of
 Santokhgarh as the existing Gausadan has limited capacity of 110

 animals. The Executive Officer, MC Santokhgarh is directed to identify the

 land for establishment of new Gausadan in the adjoining Panchayat
 rt
 Chhatterpur, PO Santokhgarh. Zila Parishad, Una has sanctioned Rs. 2,00,000/- and Rs. 3,00,000/- for each gosadan respectively. There would

 be one gausadan at each Municipal Committee level and about 4-5

 gausadans at Block Level. Out of the 4-5 gausadans, there will be one

 master gausadan at Block level. The Veterinary Doctor is directed to visit

 each gausadan on weekly basis as well as on need basis. A society is also

 being constituted under the control of government functionary for the

 proper functioning of gausadan in which facility of open membership and

 donation in kind would be made. It has also been stated that the

 Executive Officer, MC Una has intimated that five kanals of land has been

 transferred in the name of Urban Development Department at Village

 Samoor Kalan Doem for establishment of new gausadan and the

 construction work is in progress since 2.5.2016. 35. The Court appreciates the sincere efforts made by the Deputy

 Commissioner, Una towards implementation of directions issued by this ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 20:54:57 :::HCHP 54 Court from time to time in letter and spirit. The model visualized in the

 affidavit providing one gausadan at the Municipal Committee level and 4-5

 . gausadans at Block Level and setting up of society should be adopted by all

 the Deputy Commissioners in the State of Himachal Pradesh. The Deputy

 Commissioner, Una is directed to ensure that the land is transferred in

 remaining cases expeditiously and the gausadans are constructed within a

 of
 period of six months from today. The construction of gausadans in the

 Municipal Councils within Una district be also completed within three

 months from today. The Court also appreciates the release of funds by Zila
 rt
 Parishad Una amounting to Rs. 5,00,000/- for the construction of

 gausadans. The Deputy Commissioners throughout the State shall also

 ensure that at least there is one master gausadan at block level. The

 Deputy Commissioner Una is also directed to ensure that sufficient funds

 are released for the upkeep of cows as well as stray cattle by providing

 them sufficient fodder, water etc. 36. The Deputy Commissioner, Lahaul and Spiti has also filed an

 affidavit. According to him, 41 Panchayats of the district have submitted

 resolutions to the effect that no stray cattle exist in the entire district. According to the meetings convened on 29.2.2016 and 24.5.2016 there was

 no need of gausadan/gaushala/shelter in Lahaul & Spiti. However, the

 Veterinary Institutions have been directed to maintain separate OPD

 register of sick stray cattle and to report cases in monthly progress report

 separately. Thus, it is evident that there is a problem of stray cattle in ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 20:54:57 :::HCHP 55 Lahaul & Spiti. The Deputy Commissioner, Lahaul & Spiti is directed to

 ensure to construct at least one shelter in each Block to house stray cattle. . 37. The Deputy Commissioner, Bilaspur has also filed an affidavit. According to him, an amount of Rs. 60,00,000/- has been released as

 second installment for the construction of gausadans at six places i.e. Rs. 10,00,000/- for each gausadan. The funds for construction of gausadans

 of
 at Balghad and Balhseena has been released from Sh. Baba Balak Nath

 Temple Trust on 28.1.2016 whereas funds have been released for Talli,

 Kuthera, Ranikotla and Barmana from Sh. Naina Devi Ji Temple Trust on
 rt
 15.3.2016. A sum of Rs. 1,16,47,800/- has already been released for

 construction of six new gausadans in the district. A sum of Rs. 5,00,000/- has been released for enhancing the capacity of existing gausadan at

 Padyalag. BDO, Jhandutha has intimated that construction of gausadan

 at Balghar is in progress. He has been directed to complete the work at

 Balghar by June, 2016. BDO Jhandutha has intimated that work of

 construction of gausadan at Balhseena is in progress. BDO, Sadar has

 intimated that work of construction of gausadan at Ranikotla has been

 completed and boundary wall work and construction of shed is in progress. He has further informed that site development work of Barmana (Lagat) is

 in progress. BDO, Shri Naina Devi Ji has informed that the construction of

 gausadan work at Talli is in progress. BDO, Ghumarwin has intimated

 that construction of gausadan work is in progress. 38. Now, as far as M.C. Bilaspur is concerned, the Executive

 Officer concerned has intimated that tender for conversion of Municipal ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 20:54:57 :::HCHP 56 pond building situated near sabji mandi complex Bilaspur to gausadan has

 been invited and the process for obtaining no objection certificate from the

 . concerned department is in progress. There will be a direction to complete

 the work within six months from today. Similarly, the Deputy

 Commissioner shall ensure that the construction of gausadan at

 Ghumarwin is undertaken at the earliest by identifying the land and also

 of
 to obtain all the no-objections from the concerned departments. Gausadan

 at Nagar Panchayat Talli be completed at the earliest and not later than

 three months. rt 39. The Deputy Commissioner, Bilaspur is directed to ensure that

 the construction work of gausadans in the district are completed

 expeditiously within three months from today, including taking up of steps

 for enhancing the capacity of existing gausadans as undertaken in the

 affidavit. 40. The Deputy Commissioner, Mandi has also filed an affidavit. According to him, there were 32 cluster points identified and six gausadans

 were made functional. Thus, total gausadans in the district are 15. The

 process of opening new gausadans, as mentioned in the affidavit, be

 completed within a period of six months. The process of transferring

 forest land in the name of Panchayati Raj Department be also completed at

 the earliest. The authorities concerned are directed to ensure release of

 sufficient funds to facilitate the transfer of forest land to the Panchayati Raj

 Institutions. 690 stray cattle have been treated and 155 number of

 awareness camps have been organized. The Court appreciates the efforts ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 20:54:57 :::HCHP 57 made by the Deputy Commissioner, Mandi for the construction of

 gausadans. . 41. The Deputy Commissioner, Kullu, in his affidavit has averred

 that the District Administration has received proposal from 106 out of total

 204 Gram Panchayats to construct gausadans. The Government of HP has

 declared District Panchayat Officer, Kullu as User Agency to move and

 of
 process all cases of diversion of forest land for non-forestry purposes. The

 Deputy Commissioner has undertaken to provide necessary microchip in

 all the animals throughout the district. The process for transfer of land
 rt
 has also been undertaken. There are seven gausadans in the district. The

 Zila Parishad Kullu has sanctioned a sum of Rs. 64,45,000/- for the up- gradation and construction of gausadans at Bandrol, Bajaura, Chanaun,

 Kararsu, etc. The construction work has been completed at Kungash. A

 sum of Rs. 5,00,000/- has been sanctioned for construction of gausadan at

 Dalash. The land has been transferred in the name of Panchayat. Rs. 18,00,000/- have been sanctioned for the construction of gausadan at

 Chanon. The Deputy Commissioner, Kullu is directed to ensure the

 completion of construction work at Chanon and Dalash within six months

 from today. 42. According to the averments contained in the affidavit filed by

 Deputy Commissioner, Shimla, in compliance to the order dated 2.3.2016,

 Sub-Committee has submitted the latest status report. The revenue

 papers of seven selected places have been sent to BDO, Jubbal, Chhohara,

 CEO Nagar Parishad Rohru. The Deputy Commissioner, Shimla is directed ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 20:54:57 :::HCHP 58 to ensure that the revenue papers are completed, the land is transferred

 and gausadans are constructed at Purana Jubbal, Chanderpur,

 . Sheeladesh, Disbani, Sundha Bhonda, Thalli Jangla, Barada, Pujarli No. 3,

 Dhara and Knevara. A meeting of Sub-Divisional Level Committee, Chopal

 was held on 30.5.2016. The Chairman apprised the members that left over

 cases of FRA of 20 Panchayats received from BDO Chopal have been sent

 of
 to the Deputy Commissioner, Shimla for NOC and joint inspection of

 selected land for the construction of gausadans. The Deputy

 Commissioner, Shimla is directed to issue NOCs within a period of 4
 rt
 weeks, if not already granted. 43. The meeting was held under the Chairmanship of SDM Theog

 on 7.5.2016. The Chairman informed that as per the directions issued by

 this Court, four gausadans in each block are to be constructed on priority

 basis. In GP Sainj, Deothi, Kot Shillaroo and Dhar Kandroo of Theog Block

 and representative of BDO Jubbal and Kotkhai told that in GP Deori

 Khaneti and Premnagar, gausadan will be constructed on priority basis. The Deputy Commissioner, Shimla is directed to ensure that as per para

 (IV) of the affidavit, gausadans are constructed on priority basis within a

 period of six months from today. 44. The meeting of Sub Committee Shimla (Rural) was held on

 12.5.2016 wherein directions were issued to the concerned BDOs to

 expedite the process of land transfer cases concerning gausadans. In

 Block Mashobra, three gausadans are functional while construction work

 of gausadan is in progress at GP Chedi. In Development Block Mashobra ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 20:54:57 :::HCHP 59 in 38 Gram Panchayats, land has been selected while in rest 7 Gram

 Panchayats, selection process is in progress. The Deputy Commissioner,

 . Shimla is directed to ensure that the gausadan at Gram Panchayat Chedi

 be constructed within six months. Similarly, gausadans be also

 constructed in Block Mashobra where the land has been identified. Now,

 as far as 7 Gram Panchayats where the selection process is in progress, the

 of
 Deputy Commissioner, Shimla shall ensure that the land is identified

 expeditiously. 45. The Deputy Commissioner, Kangra has averred in the affidavit
 rt
 that the Sub Divisional Officer (C), Dharamshala has submitted that two

 new sheds are complete in GP Sarah with the capacity to house about 80

 stray cattle. The gausadan at Attarian in tehsil Indora is functional. Shri

 Ram Gopal Mandir Trust Damtal is also functional. Similarly at Khajjian,

 Private Mahadav Gausadan Centre gausadans are functional and at Mahal

 Chakwan Khanni, gausadan work is in progress. At Sub Division Dehra,

 land has been transferred and Rs. 6,00,000/- was sanctioned for the

 construction of gausadan at GP Muhal. The construction work has been

 completed except the roof work, for which the balance amount of Rs. 2,00,000/- have been sanctioned. The Deputy Commissioner, Kangra is

 directed to ensure that the construction is completed within three months. 46. The land for the construction of gausadan in MC area Dehra

 has also been identified. The Deputy Commissioner, Kangra is directed to

 ensure that the gausadan is completed within six months after completing ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 20:54:57 :::HCHP 60 all the codal formalities. The construction work of gausadan at Jijjal is in

 progress. The work be completed within a period of six months from today. . 47. In Sub Division Palampur, two sheds have been constructed by

 the Society and an amount of Rs. 6,00,000/- has been spent. In Sub

 Division Kangra, now since the land has been transferred to the Urban

 Development Department, the construction of gausadan shall be completed

 of
 within a period of six months. The Deputy Commissioner, Kangra is

 directed that in those cases where the land has already been transferred as

 per para (G) of the affidavit, the construction be completed within six
 rt
 months from today and in those cases where the land has not been

 transferred, the same be transferred within three months and thereafter

 construction be completed within six months. The Deputy Commissioner,

 Kangra is also directed to ensure the completion of construction of

 gausadans at Sub Divisions Jaisinghpur, Jawali and Baijnath within a

 period of six months from today. 48. The Deputy Commissioner, Sirmaur at Nahan has also filed an

 affidavit. As per the affidavit, the contouring, building plan and estimate of

 the proposed gausadan at Nauni-ka-bag, Nahan has been prepared and

 construction work of the gausadan is being started soon. The concerned

 authorities are directed to complete the work within three months. The

 construction of gausadan at Rajgarh be also completed within six months

 since the land has already been identified. There are 228 Gram

 Panchayats in the district. The work of cattle registration in 228 Gram

 Panchayats has been completed. The construction work is in progress in ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 20:54:57 :::HCHP 61 41 Gram Panchayats. In 10 Gram Panchayats, construction of gausadans

 has been completed. The land for construction of gausadans in 174 Gram

 . Panchayats has been identified. The Deputy Commissioner, Sirmaur is

 directed to ensure the construction of gausadans in the remaining Gram

 Panchayats within three months where the land has been identified and in

 the Gram Panchayats where the land has not been identified, it be done

 of
 within six months from today. The Deputy Commissioner Sirmaur is also

 directed to constitute a Committee to ensure the early transfer of land for

 the construction of gausadans in his district. rt The members of the

 Committee shall expedite the process of transfer of land. 49. According to the affidavit filed by the Deputy Commissioner,

 Hamirpur, meeting of Sub-Committee, Sujanpur under the Chairmanship

 of SDM Sujanpur was held on 26.4.2016. The SDM Sujanpur informed

 that the land has been transferred in 23 cases and in one case land

 transfer is in progress. The Deputy Commissioner, Hamirpur is directed to

 ensure that the construction of gausadan is undertaken in all the 23 cases

 and completed within six months and in remaining one case land is

 transferred and construction of gausadan is completed within six months. 50. The meeting of Sub-Committee under the Chairmanship of

 SDM Barsar was held on 23.5.2016. The representative of SDM Barsar

 informed that land has been transferred in 43 cases, 6 cases of land

 transfer are under process. In those cases where the land has already

 been transferred construction be completed within three months and ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 20:54:57 :::HCHP 62 sufficient funds are made available. In six cases, land transfer cases be

 expedited. . 51. The SDM Nadaun informed that the land has been transferred

 in 49 cases and 10 cases of land transfer are under process. The Deputy

 Commissioner, Hamirpur is directed to ensure construction of gausadans

 in those cases where the land has already been transferred within six

 of
 months and in those cases where the land transfer is in process, the same

 be done expeditiously. 52. The meeting of Sub Committee under the Chairmanship of
 rt
 SDM Bhoranj was held on 27.4.2016 wherein it was informed that in 30

 cases land has been transferred and in 8 cases it is in process. The

 Deputy Commissioner, Hamirpur is directed to ensure construction of

 gausadans in those cases where the land has already been transferred

 within six months and in those cases where the land transfer is in process,

 the same be done expeditiously. 53. The meeting of Sub Committee under the Chairmanship of

 SDM Hamirpur was held on 27.4.2016 wherein it was informed that in 47

 cases land has been transferred and in 16 cases it is in process. The

 Deputy Commissioner, Hamirpur is directed to ensure construction of

 gausadans in those cases where the land has already been transferred

 within six months and in those cases where the land transfer is in process,

 the same be expedited and thereafter the construction of gausadans be

 completed within six months. The Chief Secretary to the State of Himachal ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 20:54:57 :::HCHP 63 Pradesh is also directed to facilitate the release of amount from the 14th

 Finance Commission. . 54. The Deputy Commissioner, Chamba has filed the affidavit in

 sequel to the directions issued by this Court on 2.3.2016. As per the

 affidavit, the land measuring 2312 sq. yards in Mohal Chamba was

 identified for the construction of gausadan. A sum of Rs. 5.50 lac was

 of
 utilized for the construction. At MC Dalhousie, a sum of Rs. 5,00,000/- has been sanctioned for the construction of gausadan, however, the land

 could not be transferred. The Deputy Commissioner, Chamba is directed
 rt
 to ensure early transfer of land for the construction of gausadan at MC

 Dalhousie within a period of six months. 55. The construction of gausadan at GP Salooni has been

 completed. The land for the construction of gausadan in GP Bhalei has

 been identified. The codal formalities be completed for the transfer of

 forest land and thereafter construction of gausadan be completed within

 six months. 56. Now, as far as construction of gausadan at Tissa is concerned,

 the leveling work of the land selected for gausadan in GP Gadfari has been

 completed. An amount of Rs. 4,00,000/- was sanctioned out of which an

 amount of Rs. 2,00,000/- has been released to GP Gadfari for the

 construction of gausadan. The process of construction be completed

 within a period of six months positively. 57. The gausadan at Sihuntha has been completed. The

 construction work of gausadan in Mohal Gulahar, GP Turkara near ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 20:54:57 :::HCHP 64 Chowari be completed within a period of three months from today. Similarly, the gausadan at GP Parchhore and at Mohal Hatli, GP Tunuhatti

 . near Nainikhad be also completed within six months from today. 58. The construction of gausadan at Lahal, GP Khanni after

 getting the land transferred be completed within three months from today. Similarly, construction work/land transfer for the construction of

 of
 gausadans at GP Bhanota, GP Janghi, GP Mehla, GP Baloth, GP Bharian

 Kothi be completed within a period of six months from today. The Court

 places its appreciation for the early construction of gausadans at GP
 rt
 Janghi, GP Mehla, GP Baloth and GP Bharian Kothi. The construction

 work at Sub Division Pangi has also been completed. 59. In the affidavit filed by Deputy Commissioner, Kinnaur, it is

 averred that 26 estimates for construction of gausadans have been

 prepared and Rs. 13,75,383/- stands released from Distt. Panchayat Office

 to Zila Parishad concerned in the district. The construction work of three

 gausadans have already been started in Sub Division Kalpa and Sub

 Division Nichar. The Deputy Commissioner, Kinnaur is directed to ensure

 the early completion of the work of construction at three places, mentioned

 hereinabove and also at 26 places within a period of six months from

 today. 60. In the affidavit filed by Deputy Commissioner, Solan, it is

 averred that 46-01 bigha land has been transferred for the construction of

 gausadans in the district. The gausadans are being set up in a cluster

 approach and will cater to all Panchayats in a particular cluster so that ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 20:54:57 :::HCHP 65 optimum cattle population is covered. An amount of Rs. 47,95,247/- has

 been sanctioned for the purpose. The Deputy Commissioner, Solan is

 . directed to ensure early construction of 35 gausadans as undertaken in the

 affidavit, but not later than six months from today. 61. The Addl. Chief Secretary (UD) has filed the affidavit. According to the averments contained in the affidavit, all the Urban Local

 of
 Bodies have already been directed on 13.8.2015 and 4.12.2015 to spend

 funds for the construction and maintenance of gausadans out of the funds

 under the 13th Finance Commission. The Animal Husbandry Department
 rt
 has placed the issue of stray cattle before the Cabinet in the meeting held

 on 11.5.2016. The matter was considered by the Cabinet. The Cabinet

 approved that a cluster approach may be followed for construction of

 gausadans considering that the capacity of State, Local bodies, NGOs etc.

 to construct and manage gausadans, is limited. However, this Court is of

 the considered opinion that taking into consideration the menace of stray

 cattle numbering 32,100 across the State of Himachal Pradesh, the orders

 passed by this Court from time to time for the construction of

 gausadans/gaushallas/shelters is imperative. The respective Panchayats

 have already taken steps for construction of

 gausadans/gaushallas/shelters at the grass root level. The stray cattle

 destroy the crops and are obstructing the smooth flow of traffic. The State

 Government has also not taken necessary steps for the removal of stray

 cattle from the National Highway which is resulting in injuries to the

 hapless animals and to the commuters. The paucity of funds should not ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 20:54:57 :::HCHP 66 come in the way of construction of gausadans/gaushallas/shelters

 throughout the State of Himachal Pradesh. It is the constitutional duty of

 . the State to protect the cattle wealth by augmenting its financial capacity. 62. The MC Shimla has constructed gausadan at Boileauganj. Action taken progress made by the concerned Urban Local Bodies is

 highlighted in para 5 of the affidavit. The Addl. Chief Secretary (UD) is

 of
 directed to ensure that the construction of gausadns at 38 urban areas, if

 not already completed be completed within a period of six months from

 today. rt 63. The Deputy Secretary (PR) has filed the affidavit/status report. According to the averments made in the affidavit, a sum of Rs. 5,34,84,939/- has been released for the construction of gausadans in

 eleven districts. 64. The Addl. Chief Secretary (Animal Husbandry), has filed the

 affidavit. According to the averments made in the affidavit, treatment is

 being provided to sick and injured stray animals. Separate registers have

 been maintained in all the Veterinary Institutions for maintaining record of

 treatment provided to stray cattle. In the affidavit, it is reiterated that

 there is dearth of funds. It is the responsibility of the Department of

 Animal Husbandry, Dairying and Fisheries, Government of India to provide

 sufficient funds. The matter has already been taken up by the State

 Government. 65. The Department of Animal Husbandry, Dairying and Fisheries,

 Government of India through Secretary is directed to provide sufficient ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 20:54:57 :::HCHP 67 funds for the construction of gausadans in the State of Himachal Pradesh. 122 gausadans have already been constructed. The Himachal Pradesh

 . Govansh Samverdhan Board has been constituted vide notification dated

 8.2.2016. The Board is directed to formulate norms for registration of

 gausadans within three months from today. 66. The Chief Secretary to the State of Himachal Pradesh has also

 of
 filed the affidavit. He was directed to file the status/compliance report

 within three months before 1.6.2016. The Chief Secretary was directed to
 rt
 implement broader recommendations made by the National Commission of

 Farmers (NCF) constituted on 18.11.2004. The matter was taken up with

 the Government of India. MSP is recommended by Commission (NCF) for

 agricultural costs and prices. The Court is not satisfied with the affidavit

 as to why the MSP could not be introduced for 107 commodities, as

 mentioned in the order dated 2.3.2016. It is always open to the State to

 adopt MSPs recommended by the NCF for agricultural costs and prices or

 at its own level. The MSP is must to protect the interest of the farmers. It

 is also highlighted in the affidavit that there is Market Intervention Scheme

 (MIS) in place which is implemented on the request of State Governments

 for procurement of perishable and horticultural commodities in the event of

 fall in market prices. There are items i.e. apple, citrus fruits like

 Kinnow/Malta/Santra, Galgal and Mango included therein. If there can be

 Market intervention Scheme for three commodities, there is no reason why

 there cannot be Market Intervention Scheme for 107 commodities as

 mentioned in the order dated 2.3.2016. 67. Accordingly, the Chief Secretary to the State of Himachal

 . Pradesh is directed to take up the matter again with the Ministry

 concerned of the Government of India for declaring MSP for 107

 commodities and till then, the State Government is directed to at least

 formulate Market Intervention Scheme for 107 commodities as per order

 dated 2.3.2016. There can also be price regulation fund which is in vogue

 of
 for onion and potatoes. The matter shall be taken up by the Chief

 Secretary to the State of Himachal Pradesh directly with the Commission
 rt
 for Agricultural Costs and Prices (CACP), Government of India within six

 weeks from today. 68. The compounded annual growth rates (CAGR) in nominal as

 well as real incomes (deflated by state specific CPI-AL) of farmer

 households during 2002-03 to 2012-13 is as under: * Coming to sources of farmers' income, the share from
 cultivation rose from 45.8 per cent in 2002-03 to 47.9 per cent
 in 2012-13. But the share of income from farming of animals
 was the one that grew the most, from 4.3 per cent to 11.9 per ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 20:54:57 :::HCHP 69 cent, while the contribution from both non-farm business and
 wages & salaries declined over this period. Thus, the highest
 growth was registered in receipts from livestock farming. And

 . this was true, especially in states that showed overall higher

 real income growth rates." 69. The State Government should also implement the Pradhan

 Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana (PMKSY) in letter and spirit in order to

 ensure water to every farm ("har khet ko paani"). of 70. The Court has also directed to constitute the State Agriculture

 Commission. It has been specifically undertaken in the affidavit that the
 rt
 same is under active consideration of the State Government. The Chief

 Secretary to the State of Himachal Pradesh is directed to ensure that the

 State Agriculture Commission is constituted, notified and made functional

 within a period of three months positively. 71. The State Government is also directed to implement Pradhan

 Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY) in letter and spirit to provide better

 insurance cover. The State Government has only covered Maize and Paddy

 in Kharif and Wheat and Barley in Rabi under the cover. The other crops

 be also included in Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY). The State

 Government is also directed to scrupulously implement Weather Based

 Crop Insurance Scheme (WBCIS) for all the crops in the State of Himachal

 Pradesh. The Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY) is laudable step

 and must be implemented in letter and spirit to mitigate the hardship faced

 by the farmers. 72. Now, as far as waiver of loans to the small and marginal

 farmers is concerned at least up to Rs. 50,000/- (rupees Fifty thousand) ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 20:54:57 :::HCHP 70 according to the affidavit filed, the directions were issued to General

 Manager and Convener State Level Bankers Committee (SLBC) on

 . 21.4.2016. The Convener Bank informed that the meeting was likely to be

 held in the month of June, 2016. The General Manager and Convener

 State Level Bankers Committee (SLBC) is directed to decide the issue

 within a period of three months from today, if not already decided. of 73. This Court has also suggested the Union of India to enact the

 law prohibiting slaughtering of cow/calf, import or export of cow/calf,

 selling of beef or beef products, in its wisdom, at national level within three
 rt
 months. The Union of India has filed an affidavit. According to the

 averments made in the reply/affidavit, the subject falls within entry No. 15

 of the State List. It is also stated in the reply/affidavit that the only five

 States and one Union Territory have no legislation on the subject, however,

 Union of India has not taken into consideration entry No. 17 and 17B of

 the Concurrent List. It is open for the Union of India to enact law at the

 national level prohibiting slaughtering of cow/calf, import or export of

 cow/calf, selling of beef or beef products under entry No. 17 of the

 Concurrent List. Accordingly, the directions issued by this Court on

 14.10.2015 to Union of India to enact law prohibiting slaughtering of

 cow/calf, import or export of cow/calf, selling of beef or beef products, at

 the national level, are reiterated. The necessary steps be taken within six

 months from today. A copy of this order be also sent to the National Law

 Commission for its kind perusal. 74. The Chief Secretary to the Government of Himachal Pradesh is

 directed to ensure release of sufficient funds for the construction of

 . gausadans. 75. The Writ Petition is disposed of with the mandatory directions

 issued hereinabove. The directions issued by this Court from time to time

 on 7.10.2014, 8.1.2015, 2.5.2015, 14.10.2015 and 2.3.2016, shall also

 of
 form integral part of this judgment. Pending application(s), if any, shall

 stand disposed of. 76. The description of farmer has aptly been described by the
 rt
 American Poet Edwin Markham's poem "The Man with the Hoe". This

 poem was called "the battle-cry of the next thousand years" and translated

 into 37 languages. We quote: