-2- 1. This Public Interest Litigation has been preferred for the

following prayers:- 2. It is submitted by the counsel for the petitioner that in

the State of Jharkhand openly several secret works are going on by

the non-banking financial companies, who are collecting several

thousands crores from the public at large, in utter violation of

several Acts, including the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 , the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 , the Companies

Act, 1956 , the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 and Prevention of

Money Laundering Act, 2002 as well as the Prize Chits and Money

Circulation Schemes (Banning) Act, 1978 etc. The State Government

is unable to look after there type of violations which are being done

openly by more than two/ three dozen non-banking financial

companies since long. If the State Government is unable to see at

these violations of law, it tantamounts to connivance, and, therefore,

this Public Interest Litigation has been preferred to curb there type

of activities by several non-banking financial companies, which is a -5- mushroom growth of the State of Jharkhand. It has further been

submitted by the counsel for the petitioner that as an eye wash, one

or two F.I.Rs have been lodged, but, nothing much has been done

by the police of the State of Jharkhand. On the contrary,

Superintendent of Police, District-Deoghar, State of Jharkhand has

shown his inability to investigate into the matter, because the

matter involves economic offenses, which requires investigation by

especially skilled Investigating Officers. It has also been submitted

by the Superintendent of Police, District of Deoghar, that for proper

investigation of this type of allegation against more than two and

three dozens companies, the matter should be referred to Central

Bureau of Investigation by the State. It is submitted by the counsel

for the petitioner that thus, the police of the State of Jharkhand and

that too Superintendent of Police, District-Deoghar is clearly of the

opinion that the matter involves several companies, several

influential persons like Directors and Manging Directors who are

staying in different States, huge amount is involved of rupees more

than 1600/- crores, for one company (total sum may cross Rs. 25

thousands crores for non-banking cheating companies which are

more than two to three dozens in the State of Jharkhand). Several

Acts have been violated, as stated herein above, for which

investigation might have been carried out in different States of this

Country or there may be a need of the investigating agency to go in

other Countries also, because money laundering Act is also involved.

Whenever, there is a misappropriation of few thousand crores by -6- few fortunates (in reality they are accused) the money has to be

invested in this Country or out of the Country by these few

fortunates, and, hence the officers with expertized knowledge and

special skill are required with the investigating agency, and, as the

police is not in a position to investigate the matter, let this matter

be referred to the Central Bureau of Investigation. 3. It is submitted by the Additional Advocate General that a

detailed counter affidavit has been filed on behalf of respondent

no.3, who has brought on record several facts including the amount

involved in one company being approximately of Rs. 1600/- crores

and total figure may even cross Rs. 25000/- thousands crores. Few

F.I.Rs have been referred to in the counter affidavit, but,

investigation are yet to be over. It has also been stated by

respondent no.3, that there is a need to constitute a committee for

investigation by expertized investigating agency/officers.

Respondent no. 3 has mentioned the violation of several Acts, as

stated herein above. Even Superintendent of Police, District-

Deoghar has shown his inclination, looking to the huge fraud, and,

scam committed by several influensive persons who are Managing

Director of not less than two and three dozens cheat fund type

companies, of investigation to be carried out in more than one

States. Even the investigating team has to go out of the country,

and, therefore, they have no much objection, if this Court passes

an order to hand over this investigation for all these non-banking

financial institutions to the Central Bureau of Investigation. It is -7- fairly submitted by A.A.G of the State that at present the State of

Jharkhand is having a list of 27 such type of non-banking financial

companies, which are at page no. 37 of the counter affidavit filed by

respondent no.3, and, as all these companies and such other

companies are involved in the offence as stated in this counter

affidavit filed by respondent no. 3, let this offence be investigated by

the Central Bureau of Investigation. The Additional Advocate

General submitted that the necessary logistic support will be given

by the State of Jharkhand to the Central Bureau of Investigation,

because to unearth the conspiracy and several offences under

dozen of Acts, there is need to give full support to the C.B.I. 4. Counsel appearing for respondent no. 8 submitted that

the investigation under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act,

2002 has to be carried out by the Director of Enforcement for

breach out the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 , by these

two to three dozens of companies in-cooperation with the

investigation which will be carried out by the Central Bureau of

Investigation so that there may be proper synchronization of

investigation by the different agencies. 5. Counsel appearing for the respondent no. 9 submitted

that some preliminary enquiry is being done by the Income Tax

authority to see undisclosed income of the companies, and, the

Directors thereof, and, transaction of such a huge money, which

has taken place in the State, as stated herein above. For one

company, namely, Alchemist Infra Reality Ltd., Rs. 1600 crores is -8- involved, and, there are more than two to three dozen of such

companies, and, thus, total amount may cross Rs. 25,000/-

thousand crores. Such huge transaction cannot be over looked by

the Income Tax Department. 6. Counsel appearing for the respondent no. 9 further

submitted that they have no objection, if this investigation is being

handed over to the Central Bureau of Investigation under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 . If, the investigation is

being carried out by Directorate of Enforcement, Income Tax

Department will also work in-cooperation with Central Bureau of

Investigation as well as Director of Enforcement, so that if need

arises, proper raids may be carried out at various places as per the

investigation are being carried out by both the aforesaid agencies as

well as as per the information given to the Income Tax Department. 7. Counsel appearing for respondent nos. 6 and 7 submitted

that, sufficient logistic support may be provided by the State of

Jharkhand, if this Court directs the Central Bureau of Investigation

to carry out the investigation of the offences, as stated herein above,

by several non-banking financial companies and, by the directors

thereof, which involves large public interest, because several

persons have been cheated, as per allegations, by those companies,

and, a huge money of approximately of Rs. 25 thousands crores is

also involved in this offence, the investigation will have to be carried

out in more than one State of this country and if need arises, there

may be need to carry out investigation in other countries, because -9- such a huge amount, siphoned away by the offenders might have

been reinvested in other countries to convert black money into white

one, and, thereby committed the offence of Prevention of Money

Laundering Act, 2002 . It is also submitted by the counsel for

respondent nos. 6 and 7 that in the State of Jharkhand there are

several scams and several matters are being referred to the C.B.I.

Even sufficient infrastructure has been proved, insufficient for the

investigation of variety of scams in the Sate of Jharkhand, and,

therefore, suitable direction may be given to the State of Jharkhand

to give necessary logistic support to the C.B.I so that the whole

scam may be unearthed and the investigation may be completed at

the earliest. Reasons:- 8. Having heard for both the sides and looking to the facts and

circumstances of the case, it appears; (i) that in the State of Jharkhand, several non-banking

 financial companies are/were working and there are

 allegations that they have collected huge amount from the

 public at large for one such company, namely, viz. Alchemist

 Infra Realty Ltd. The amount involved is approximately Rs.

 1600/- crores, and, similarly there are such type of 27

 companies, list of which is given by respondent no. 3 -

 Director General of Police, State of Jharkhand. Thus, the total

 amount may cross even Rs. 25 thousand crores. This is a first

 need to handover the investigation to the C.B.I. -10- (ii) that every actions of non-banking financial

company is not out of ignorance. Looking to the huge amount

involved in their offences committed by the companies, there

may be preplanned and well designed action on their part.

Whenever, there is a conspiracy or a preplanned well

designed action to cheat several persons, through various

offences under the various Acts, it requires thorough

investigation, which requires scientific investigation and there

will be a also need of especially skilled investigating

officers/Teams. Perhaps this is pointed out by

Superintendent of Police, District-Deoghar in his letter dated

27.04.2015 (Annexure-D series, to the counter affidavit filed

by respondent no.3). This is also a major reason for handing

over the investigation to the C. B. I. (iii) that the aforesaid letter written by Superintendent

of Police, District-Deoghar dated 27.04.2015 also reflects that

the police of the State of Jharkhand is not capable enough to

unearth such a huge scam committed by several companies

and several directors thereof, and for several other persons

including employees of those non-banking financial

companies who have siphoned away more than Rs. 25000/-

thousand crores, and, might have re-invested the same in

different parts of this country or in the countries other than

this country. For this the police of the State of Jharkhand

may not be in a position to carry out proper and thorough -11- investigation. This is one more reason to handover the

investigation to Central Bureau of Investigation. (iv) that following are the companies which are non-

banking financial companies who are under the gauge of the

investigation by the Jharkhand State Police as under:- No. Name of Companies 1. Suraha Micro Finance. 2. Sunplant Agro Group. 3. Prayag Infotech Hi Rise Ltd. 4. Sai Prasad Properties Ltd. 5. Fedral Agro Commercial Ltd. 6. Gulsan Nirman India Ltd. 7. Tirubalaji Rising Real State Pvt. Ltd. 8. Alchemist Infra Realty Ltd. 9. Dhanolti Devlopers Ltd. 10. Kolkata Wear Industries Ltd. 11. Sankalp Group of Companies 12. Weared Infra Structured Corporation Ltd. 13. Rupharsh Marketing Ltd. 14. Sunshine Global Agro Ltd. 15. Ramal Industries Ltd. 16. Inormas Industries Ltd. 17. Axela Infra-structure and Development Ltd. 18. Gitanjali Udyog Ltd. 19. M.P.A. Agro animals Projects Ltd. 20. Jugantar Reality Ltd. 21. ATM Group of Companies. 22. Care Vision Mutual Benefit Ltd. 23. Matribhum Manufacturing Marketing (I) Ltd. 24. Rosevalley Hotels and Intertainment Ltd. 25. Bardhman Summarg Welfare Sociaety 26. Apna Parivar Agro farming Devlopers Ltd. 27. Waris Group and Arshdip Finance Ltd. The aforesaid list is not an exhaustive. More the ignorant

people, more such companies come into existence. (v) that these companies have selected also the State of

 Jharkhand for making operational their offensive activities, as

 alleged in the F.I.R. The aforesaid 27 of the companies have

 been referred by the Superintendent of Police, District-

 Deoghar, State of Jharkhand, but, there may be many more

 such type of non-banking financial companies, which are

 more observing the laws, in breach, than in compliance.

 These companies must have minimum two directors. Every

 public limited company is having minimum seven directors

 and private companies are having minimum two directors.

 Thus, the total figure of influential persons will also be many

 more. Keeping in mind this type of magnitude of several non-

 banking financial companies, investigation is to be handed

 over to the C.B.I. (vi) that there is one more reason to hand over the

 investigation to C.B.I. in view of the fact that there is violation

 of several Acts, few of them are as under:- These are the Acts, involved in the offence as

 alleged against these companies for investigation of all

 these type of offences committed by the influensive

 persons, especially when the offence is not committed out

 of the ignorance, highly skilled investigation ought to be

 carried out, for which investigating agencies has to move

 to one State to another, and, from one country to

 another. Tilaiya police station bearing P.S. Case No. 69 of 2013, dated -14- 25.03.2013, and the State police is still investigating the

 matter. Similar is the position with other districts also, e.g.

 East Singhbhum, Jamshedpur, Jadugora, P.S. Case No.

 61/13 is also pending at the same police station. One more

 case has been registered, and, there are several such F.I.Rs.

 at such other districts, as per the counsel appearing for the

 C.B.I., and, the counsel appearing for the petitioner

 like Dhanbad etc. Looking to this aspect of the matter also,

 the investigation has to be handed over to the C.B.I.

 Moreover, looking to Annexure annexed with the counter

 affidavit filed by respondent no. 3--Director General of Police

 of the State of Jharkhand, especially reading as page 23 of

 the said affidavit, that Directors of these companies are in

 West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Gujrat, Chandigarh,

 etc. Thus, these Directors are staying in several States of this

 country, money might have been shifted to those States, and,

 therefore, the investigation has to be handed over to the

 authority which can carry out the investigation efficiently, in

 other States, and, if need arises, other countries also. 9. As a cumulative effect of the aforesaid facts and reasons,

we direct that; (a) the Offences registered at (i) Tilaiya Police Station being Tilaiya P.S. Case No. 69 of 2013; (ii) Deoghar Town P.S. Case No. 543 of 2013; (iii) Jadugora P.S. Case No. 67 of 2013; (iv) Ghatshila P.S. Case No. 26 of 2013; (v) Mahgama P.S. Case No. 36 of 2013; (vi) Rajmahal P.S. Case No. 111 of 2013;, and, such other

 similar offences shall be investigated by the C.B.I. The papers

 of investigation, so far carried out by the Jharkhand State

 Police, shall be handed over to the C.B.I., at the earliest and

 latest within the period of four weeks from today. (b) the C.B.I. shall carry out investigation and will complete the

investigation as early as possible. Necessary logistic support to the

C.B.I, including communications facilities through mobile etc.

necessary vehicles, human resources including police, because they

may carry out the necessary raids at necessary premises, shall be

provided by the State, to unearth the vast scam, and, such other

infrastructure shall also be supplied by the State, so that the C.B.I.

can carry out, and, complete effective and efficient investigation. (c) the aforesaid list of cases of which the investigation is handed

over to the C.B.I. is not an exhaustive list. Complete list will be

supplied by the State of Jharkhand to the C.B.I., and, all these

F.I.Rs. will be handed over to the C.B.I. including of the aforesaid

categorically mentioned F.I.Rs. for investigation by C.B.I. 10. It has been held in the case of Subrata Chattoraj Vs.

Union of India , reported in (2014)8 S.C.C. 800, especially at

paragraph nos. 10, 11, 37, 38, 44 and 45 thereof, as under:- (Emphasis supplied) 11. In the case of Rubabbuddin Sheikh vs. State of Gujarat

& Ors. , as reported in (2012) 2 SCC 200, it has been held that

investigation can be handed over to the CBI authority even after

charge-sheet has been submitted and trial was going on. It has also

been held in that case that because high police officials were

involved as accused, if investigation is allowed to be carried on by

the local police authorities, all concerned including the relatives of

the deceased may feel that the investigation was not proper.

According to the Supreme Court, in an appropriate case when the

Court feels that the investigation by the police authorities is not in

proper direction and in order to do complete justice in the case, it

was always open to the Court to handover investigation to

independent agency like CBI, even after charge-sheet has been

submitted. 12. In view of the aforesaid facts, reasons and judicial

pronouncements, the investigation of the aforesaid offences are

handed over to the C.B.I. 13. Over and above the aforesaid offences, similarly situated

other First Information Reports, registered at various other police

stations about Chit Fund Companies are also handed over to the

C.B.I. for further investigation. These cases shall be identified by the

C.B.I. with the help of the State of Jharkhand. We also direct that -19- all other agencies like State of Jharkhand, Enforcement Directorate

 etc. shall cooperate with the investigation, to be carried out by the

 C.B.I., so that the C.B.I. can complete the investigation effectively

 and efficiently. 14. This writ petition is, accordingly, disposed of, at this

 stage. Nonetheless, liberty is reserved with the parties to this writ

 petition to move appropriate proceedings before the appropriate

 forum, in case of necessity. (D.N. Patel, J.)

 (Ratnaker Bhengra, J.)
S.Dutta/Amardeep