(Judgment of the Court was delivered by
CHITRA VENKATARAMAN,J.)
		
	The writ appeal is against the order of the learned Single Judge dated
19.09.2011 in W.P(MD)No.9450 of 2011, rejecting the writ petition filed by the
writ petitioner seeking a Writ of Certiorarified Mandamus to quash the
proceedings of the respondent dated 16.05.2011, wherein the respondent rejected
the plea of the writ petitioner to engage an advocate in the course of the
enquiry proceedings. The writ petitioner also seeks quashing of the proceedings
dated 27.06.2011 rejecting the writ petitioner's request again to engage an
advocate. In the light of the prayer thus made, the writ petitioner seeks a
Mandamus to direct the respondent to permit the writ petitioner to avail the
services of M.Rajarathinam, advocate, as defence Assistant in respect of the
domestic enquiry conducted for the charge memo dated 14.02.2011. 2. A perusal of the affidavit filed before this Court shows that except
for contending that the said M.Rajarathinam has the right to represent as per
the provisions of the Advocates Act, 1961 , nothing had been stated as to how the
discretion had been wrongly exercised by the respondent in rejecting the plea of
the writ petitioner. 3. Even before the learned Single Judge, except for highlighting the
provisions of the Advocates Act and the decisions rendered regarding the right
of representation, nothing had been contended before the learned Single Judge as
to how the gravity of the charges levelled against the writ petitioner makes the
right of representation through an advocate an absolute one. 4. Few facts before going into the case, have to be noted hereunder: (iv) Subsequent thereto, once again, on 14.06.2011, the writ petitioner
wrote a letter informing the respondent about engaging the services of
M.Rajarathinam, Advocate and contended that under Section 30 of the Advocates
Act, 1961, the Advocates can practice as a matter of right in all "Courts",
"Tribunals" or any "Quasi-judicial authority". In these circumstances, the writ
petitioner prayed that suitable letter be issued to his Advocate. The
respondent replied on 27.06.2011 that the terms of Bi-partite settlement is
binding on both sides. In these circumstances, the respondent refused
permission to have the assistance of an Advocate, instead, they informed the
writ petitioner that he can engage a Defence Representative from the Union as
per the Bank's guidelines/Bi-partite settlement. (v) With the correspondences thus going between the parties therein, not
satisfied of the reply given by the respondent, the writ petitioner approached
this Court challenging the said order refusing permission to have the assistance
of an Advocate. (vi) Contending that Bi-partite agreement provided for engaging the
services of an Advocate, the petitioner reiterated his contentions as regards
the amendment to Section 30 of the Advocates Act, 1961, as has been stated in
the earlier correspondence and contended that he had nominated M.Rajarathinam, a
practising lawyer, as Defence Assistant who has the right to practise in all
Courts, Tribunals and other Quasi-Judicial authorities notified on 09.06.2011. (vii) A perusal of the order of the learned Single Judge shows the
detailed consideration as regards the right of a delinquent officer to have the
assistance of an Advocate in a domestic enquiry. Referring to the decision
relied on by the writ petitioner dated 16.07.2007 in W.P.No.7999 of 2005,
wherein this Court rejected the plea of the charged official seeking engaging of
the services of M.Rajarathinam, Advocate on the ground that the defence
representative belonged to officer category, learned Single Judge held that the
said judgment cannot be cited as the precedent regarding engaging the services
of a lawyer as defence representative in a domestic enquiry as a matter of right
and that it is only at the discretion of the Bank that the charged official
could have the services of a lawyer as a defence representative. (viii) Learned Single Judge, however, rejected the contention of the writ
petitioner holding that permitting the Advocate to represent a charged official,
is a matter of discretion for the Bank to decide. Thus, the claim of the writ
petitioner could not be granted. In so considering the issue on right to claim
legal assistance, learned Single Judge referred to the decisions in ( i) Bharat
Petroleum Corporation Ltd., v. Maharashtra General Kamgar Union and others reported in (1999) 1 SCC 626; ( ii) National Seeds Corpn., Ltd. v. K.V.Rama Reddy reported in 2006(11) SCC 645; (iii) D.G., Railway Protection Force and others
v.K.Raghuram Babu reported in 2008(4) SCC 406, holding that there is no right to
representation in the disciplinary proceedings by another person unless the
Service Rules specifically provided for the same and thus, ultimately came to
the conclusion that the writ petitioner cannot seek as a matter of right a
representation through a Counsel or through any person unless the statute or
rules/Standing Orders provided for such a right. 5. Learned Counsel for the appellant/writ petitioner while placing
reliance on the Memorandum of Settlement dated 10.04.2002, submitted that
considering the charges levelled against the writ petitioner which may lead to
serious consequences on his service with the Bank, the respondent should have
considered his plea for representation through an Advocate. 6. He further pointed out that considering the binding nature of the
agreement, in fairness to the compliance of the principles of natural justice,
the learned Single Judge should have considered the request of the writ
petitioner to quash the impugned order and thereby, permitted the said
M.Rajarathinam to represent him in the Disciplinary proceedings. 7. In so contending, learned Counsel for the appellant/writ petitioner
pointed out that the right to represent through an Advocate is so fundamental to
his case that in the guise of exercising of discretion as available under the
Settlement, the Bank had unjustifiably rejected the permission sought for. 8. It must be noted herein that the arguments now projected by the
learned Counsel for the appellant/writ petitioner before this Court is mainly on
the aspect of seriousness of the charges levelled against the writ petitioner
and he had not argued anything either about the stand taken before the learned
Single Judge as per the provisions of Section 30 of the Advocates Act, 1961 or
about the line of arguments taken therein as regards his right claimed as a
matter of course to have the assistance of an Advocate. It is not denied by the
writ petitioner that it is a matter of record that the terms of the Memorandum
of Settlement is absolute in its operation and no discretion is available with
the respondent to permit an Advocate to be engaged by the delinquent official. 9. Referring to the decisions in Ram Naresh Tripati v. S.D.Rane and others reported in 1992-II-L.L.J. 519 and G.V.Aswathanarayana v. Central Bank of India
reported in 1993-I-L.L.N. 689, learned Counsel for the appellant/writ petitioner
submitted that even in the absence of any provision granting the delinquent
officer the right to engage a representative as per the rules and regulations,
such a right is available to the delinquent officer as a matter of compliance of
the principles of natural justice and ultimately, the question as to whether the
delinquent officer has to have the assistance of an Advocate, is the matter to
be viewed on the seriousness of the allegations and consequences that may flow
therefrom. 10. He also relied on the decision in The Board of Trustees of the Port of
Bombay v. Dilipkumar Raghavendranath Nadkarni and others reported in 1983-I-
L.L.J. 1, wherein the Honourable Apex Court considered the principles of natural
justice and the reasonable opportunity to defend to be granted to an employee in
a domestic enquiry. Thus, when the rules are absolute, the provisions in the
Settlement allowing the discretion to the Management, would have to be read as a
positive mandate to have the assistance of an Advocate. 11. Per contra, by pointing out to various communications from the
appellant, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the respondent pointed out that
it is not the case of the appellant/writ petitioner throughout in his
correspondence that the nature of the charges levelled against the appellant
warranted the services of an Advocate to represent him in the course of the
enquiry proceedings. In any event, he pointed out that when there is a
discretion reserved with the respondent as per the Memorandum of Settlement on
Disciplinary Action Procedures for Workmen dated 01.08.2002, the same is binding
on the writ petitioner/appellant. 12. Secondly, he further pointed out that even as per the Settlement
reached, the delinquent officer has the right to represent him through a
representative of Registered Trade Union of Bank Employees and even where he is
not a member of any Trade Union on the date of enquiry, a representative of a
Registered Trade Union of Bank Employees in which the employee is working, could
represent his case. The only area where the discretion is given to the Bank is
as regards the delinquent official seeking permission to engage an Advocate as
defence representative in the enquiry proceedings. He pointed out that neither
the enquiry officer is the legal practitioner nor the employer represented
through a legal practitioner to grant the relief to the writ petitioner to have
the assistance of an Advocate. In any event, given the fact that in none of the
correspondences, the writ petitioner had voiced any difficulty in the matter of
conduct of the proceedings and when there is no denial of the fact that the
respondent had informed the writ petitioner about his right to engage any one of
the Trade Union representatives to represent him, the question of violation of
Settlement does not arise. 13. Quite apart, the contention of the writ petitioner throughout in the
writ petition related only to the provisions of the Advocates Act, 1961 and it
is not now open to the writ petitioner to claim as a matter of right that he be
represented through an Advocate. 14. Learned Senior Counsel appearing for the respondent placed reliance on
the decisions of the Honourable Apex Court in ( i) Crescent Dyes and Chemicals
Ltd., v. Ram Naresh Tripathi reported in (1993) 2 Supreme Court Cases 115; (ii)
N.Kalindi and others v. M/s.Tata Locomotive and Engineering Co., Ltd.,
Jamshedpur reported in AIR 1960 SUPREME COURT 914, a decision consistently
followed till this date; (iii) M/s.CIPLA Ltd., and others v. Ripu Daman Bhanot
and another reported in AIR 1999 SUPREME COURT 1635; ( iv) Bharat Petroleum
Corporation Ltd., v. Maharashtra General Kamgar Union and others reported in AIR
1999 SUPREME COURT 401; ( v) Indian Overseas Bank v. Indian Overseas Bank
Officers' Association reported in AIR 2001 SUPREME COURT 4007; (vi) State Bank
of India, rep. by Assistant General Manager (Personnel & HRD), Chennai v.
Presiding Officer, Industrial Tribunal, Madras and another reported in 2007-II-
L.L.J. 968 (Mad), only to insist on the contention that adequate opportunity is
provided under the Settlement and granting of assistance through an Advocate is
the matter of discretion. He further pointed out that the right of
representation is only a restricted right which has been recognised in the
Settlement between the Management and the employee. In these circumstances, no
grievance could be raised herein on the letters issued. 15. Before going into the case between the Management and the workman, the
provisions of the Memorandum of Settlement on Disciplinary Action Procedure for
Workmen dated 01.08.2002 need to be seen. 16. As the caption to the Memorandum suggests, the Settlement arrived at
covers wide areas, as regards the disciplinary issue, clause 12 of the
Settlement lays down the procedure as regards the assistance that the delinquent
employee may have. It reads as under: OR (ii) at the request of the said union by a representative of the state
federation or all India Organisation to which such union is affiliated;
	OR (iii) with the Bank's permission, by a lawyer." 17. In the background of the said provision contained in the Settlement,
the question as to whether the delinquent officer would be entitled to have, as
a matter of right, a representative to defend him, needs to be seen. 18. In the decision in State Bank of India, rep. by Assistant General
Manager (Personnel & HRD), Chennai v. Presiding Officer, Industrial Tribunal,
Madras and another reported in 2007-II-L.L.J. 968 (Mad) relied on by the learned
Senior Counsel for the respondent, this Court considered the issue, particularly
with reference to a bank employee charged with misappropriation where the
employee abandoned the enquiry after certain stage. In considering the issue as
to whether the employee has a right to have the representation through a lawyer,
this Court referred to the decision in Management of National Seeds Corporation
Ltd., v. K.V.Rama Reddy reported in 2007-II-L.L.J. 30 referring to the decision
in Indian Overseas Bank v. Indian Overseas Bank Officers' Association and
another reported in AIR 2001 SC 4007, to point out that the basic principle is
that an employee has no right to representation in the departmental proceedings
by another person or a lawyer unless the Service Rules specifically provide for
the same; and that the right to representation is available only to the extent
specifically provided for in the Rules. Thus, in the context of the law
declared, no employee can claim assistance or representation by a legally
trained person as of right. This Court also referred to the decision in
Chairman and Managing Director, Hindustan Teleprinters Ltd., Chennai v. M.Rajan
Isaac reported in (2005) 2 MLJ 119 and held that in the enquiry proceedings, a
workman is not entitled to have the assistance of a lawyer of his choice. In
the absence of specific provisions either in by-laws, guidelines, etc., enabling
the workman to have the legal assistance, this Court rejected the plea of the
delinquent officer. 19. In D.G., Railway Protection Force and others v. K.Raghuram Babu reported in AIR 2008 SUPREME COURT 1958, the Apex Court reiterated the
principles following the earlier decisions. In paragraphs 10 and 11, it is held
as follows: 20. Thus, the law laid down by the Honourable Apex Court shows that the
doctrine of principles of natural justice in the matter of a domestic enquiry
has to be understood in the context of the specific provisions contained in the
rule or regulation. Ordinarily, a delinquent officer has to conduct his case on
his own in a domestic/departmental enquiry as the same is not a criminal trial
or a suit where a party has the right to be represented by an Advocate. In
D.G., Railway Protection Force and others v.K.Raghuram Babu reported in 2008(4)
SCC 406, the Apex Court pointed out that there is no absolute or vested right in
any charge-sheeted employee to make representation either through a Counsel or
through any person unless the Statutes or the rules provided for the same.
Thus, even if such a right is granted, it can be a controlled/restricted right
reserving the discretion with the employer to consider the said request. The
Honourable Apex Court clarified this by further saying that if the charge is
serious and complex nature, the delinquent's request to be represented through a
counsel or agent could be conceded. The Apex Court referred to the decisions of
the House of Lords, particularly, Lord Denning who held that "in a domestic
enquiry, justice can often be done in them better by a good layman than by a bad
lawyer". 21. In the context of these decisions of the Honourable Apex Court and
this Court, it is clear that no such absolute right has been given under the
Memorandum of Settlement for a delinquent officer to have a representation
through a lawyer. Where the regulations provide for a representation through a
representative of a Registered Trade Union granting permission for engaging a
lawyer, thus left to the discretion of the employer, we do not find any
violation of principles of natural justice. 22. Learned Counsel for the appellant/writ petitioner placed reliance on
as much as 17 decisions of various Courts including this Court and the Apex
Court. In the decision in Navinchandra Shakerchand Shah v. Ahmedabad Co- operative Department Stores Ltd., reported in 1979-I-L.L.J. 60, the Gujarat High
Court referred to the compliance of principles of natural justice and the right
of an employee on the aspect of being informed about his rights and pointed out
that considering the nature of allegations made therein where the permission is
sought for by a delinquent employee for having an assistance from the legal
representative, the enquiry would stand vitiated on account of a lapse in not
informing the delinquent employee about his right of cross-examining another
party. 23. As far as the decision in Ghatge Patil Transport Pvt. Ltd., v.
B.K.Etale and others reported in 1984-II-L.L.J. 121, of the Bombay High Court
relied on by the learned Counsel for the appellant is concerned, it dealt with
the right of a delinquent employee to be represented by a well-wisher or a union
representative or a legal practitioner. A perusal of the judgment of the Bombay
High Court shows that it held the view that in a domestic enquiry, if an
employee is refused a fair opportunity of being represented by an outsider or a
union representative or a legal practitioner, this cannot be termed only as a
technical defect. However, the question has to be decided on the facts and
circumstances of each case. The Bombay High Court pointed out that one of the
basic principles of natural justice is that the enquiry should be fair and
impartial. Even if there is no provision in the Standing Orders or in law,
where, in an enquiry before the domestic tribunal, the delinquent is pitted
against a legally trained mind, if he seeks permission to appear through a legal
practitioner, the refusal to grant his request would amount to a denial of
reasonable request to defend himself and the essential principles of natural
justice would stand violated. 24. So too in the decision in Ram Naresh Tripati v. S.D.Rane and others reported in 1992-II-L.L.J. 519, the Bombay High Court reiterated the said view
and held that for the domestic enquiry to be fair and impartial, it is very much
necessary that the delinquent workman should be allowed to be represented by a
person of his choice and if an employee is refused such a fair opportunity, it
would amount to violation of principles of natural justice. 25. In the decision in J.K.Aggarwal v. Haryana Seeds Development
Corporation Ltd. and others reported in 1991-II-L.L.J. 412, the Apex Court
reiterated that where the legally trained mind represented an employer in a
domestic enquiry, the refusal to grant an opportunity to the employee would
amount to denial of a reasonable request to defend himself and violation of
essential principles of natural justice. 26. A perusal of the decisions thus cited and relied on by the learned
Counsel for the appellant/writ petitioner shows that these decisions rest on the
peculiar facts and circumstances of the case and the relevant provisions of the
rules or regulations therein. The consistent view that one can deduce is that
where the enquiry is conducted through a legally trained mind, denial of
assistance of similarly qualified persons to a delinquent officer would be fatal
to the proceedings. The charges levelled against the delinquent officer and the
constitution of the enquiry tribunal, hence, have to have its weightage given in
the matter of considering the right of an employee to have the assistance of a
lawyer. 27. As far as the present case is concerned, it is not denied by the
appellant/writ petitioner that the Memorandum of Settlement dated 10.04.2002
specifically dealing with the conduct of disciplinary proceedings, is binding on
the writ petitioner herein and it provides for a wide range, including
representation through a defence representative in the enquiry proceedings.
There is no denial of the fact that as per clause 12 of the Memorandum of
Settlement, the delinquent employee can have the defence representation through
the Registered Trade Union of Bank Employees of which the delinquent officer is
a member and even if he is not a member in any Trade Union, he is entitled to
have the assistance of a representative of the Trade Union of the Bank Employees
or Federation or All India Organisation to which the same is affiliated. The
only area where the Bank has the discretion is in the matter of considering the
request of a delinquent employee to have the assistance of a lawyer. In so
providing such a discretion, we do not find any violation of either
constitutional right or principles of natural justice. 28. As already pointed out, the question of relevancy of the Advocates
Act, 1961, does not hold water and rightly so, the learned Counsel for the
appellant/writ petitioner did not canvass the issue before us. 29. As already pointed out, the only ground argued by the learned Counsel
for the appellant/writ petitioner is that when the delinquent officer seeks the
assistance of a lawyer, as a matter of right, the same should have been granted.
Secondly, the gravity of the charges should be looked into. 30. It is not denied by the writ petitioner that neither the enquiry
officer nor the representative of the Bank and the Management are legally
trained persons in the enquiry proceedings. On the admitted fact that the
Settlement does not provide for engaging a lawyer as a matter of right and that
the Bank itself have not appointed the enquiry officer as a lawyer nor the
representative of the Management to be a lawyer, we do not find any
justification in accepting the case of the appellant/writ petitioner that the
appellant/writ petitioner is entitled to have the assistance of a lawyer. 31. As already pointed out, learned Senior Counsel for the respondent
submitted that in none of the correspondences, any averment is made as regards
the nature of the charges which required the assistance of a lawyer in the
course of the proceedings before the enquiry officer. 32. Learned Counsel for the appellant/writ petitioner rightly does not
deny as a matter of fact that there are no averments in the writ petition as
regards the compelling necessity of engaging of a lawyer or on the gravity of
the charges levelled, to accept the case of the appellant herein. Thus, going
by the contentions now made, we do not find any ground to accept the request of
the appellant/writ petitioner to have the assistance of a lawyer. 33. Learned Counsel for the appellant/writ petitioner pointed out that
M.Rajarathinam, Advocate, whose help is sought for by the writ petitioner was
originally the staff of the Bank alone and that there could be no serious
objection from the Bank. We do not find any grounds to accept this. Given the
fact that the Memorandum of Settlement made provides for engaging the services
of the representative of the Trade Union which is in compliance of the
principles of the natural justice and in any event, when no grievance is made at
any point of time as to why the writ petitioner should not engage a
representative of a Trade Union and no arguments had been taken before the
learned Single Judge in this regard that the discretion had not been properly
exercised, we do not find any justification in the plea of the appellant/writ
petitioner. Whatever might have been the status of M.Rajarathinam previously as
on the date of enquiry, admittedly he is a practising Advocate and the claim is
not made rightly by the appellant that as an employee, M.Rajarathinam is
entitled to represent him. 34. In these circumstances, going by the well settled principles of law on
the right of representation in the enquiry proceedings and the Memorandum of
Settlement on disciplinary proceedings to have the representation through the
representative of a Registered Trade Union, we reject the case of the
appellant/writ petitioner and thereby, confirm the view of the learned Single
Judge. 35. Accordingly, the writ appeal stands dismissed. Consequently, the
connected Miscellaneous Petition is dismissed. No costs. rsb