01.02.2022 Bail App No.144/2021 1. The instant application for grant of bail has been moved by the

petitioner-accused whereby he has sought bail in case arising out of FIR

No.73/2021 for offences under Section 420 , 376 IPC registered with Police

Station, Satwari Jammu. It is pertinent to mention here that initially the

petition was moved for grant of bail in anticipation of arrest but during the

pendency of the petition, the petitioner came to be arrested whereafter he

moved another application with a prayer that his earlier application be

treated as one for grant of regular bail. Accordingly the application has been

treated as one for grant of regular bail. CRM(M) No.288/2021 2. Briefly stated the case of the prosecution is that the prosecutrix on

24.03.2021 lodged a written complaint before the Court of learned Judicial

Magistrate Ist Class, Sub Registrar, Jammu. Vide order dated 24.03.2021,

the learned Magistrate directed the police to register the FIR and investigate

the case. Accordingly, FIR No.73/2021 for offences under Section 376 / 420 IPC came be registered. 3. In the complaint lodged by the prosecutrix it has been alleged that

she was living with her elder sister at Digiana, Jammu. She was working as a

Teacher in a School and besides this she was also performing part time job

of selling health products. It was alleged in the complaint that in the last

week of February, 2020, the accused came in contact with her in connection

with purchase of health products from her and both of them got to know

each other. The accused extended the promise of marriage to the prosecutrix

but she refused as the accused is a non-sikh. During the interaction of

prosecutrix with the accused both of them developed faith on each other.

The accused and his mother gained confidence of the prosecutrix whereafter

accused started extracting money from her in cash as well as in the form of

gold items including gold ornaments, which belonged to the sister of the

prosecutrix. It is alleged that the prosecutrix even availed the loan from

Jammu and Kashmir Bank Ltd and this amount was also taken away by the

accused from her. Despite demands from the prosecutrix, the accused did not

return the money and gold items taken away by him. The prosecutrix further

goes on to allege that on 31.10.2020 the accused came to her in a drunken

position and made sexual advances towards her and ultimately forcibly

committed sexual intercourse with her. In the month of November, 2020, 3 Bail App No.144/2021, CRM(M) No.288/2021 the elder sister of prosecutrix came to know about the withdrawal of money

from the bank account whereafter the prosecutrix started contacting the

accused so as to get back her money but the accused avoided to do so. On

13.01.2021, the prosecutrix along with her sister contacted the

accused/petitioner, who flatly refused to identify them and hurled abuses

upon them. According to the prosecutrix, the accused-petitioner has duped

her of Rs.7,20,000/- and besides this he has misappropriated the gold

ornaments which she had given to him. The investigation of the case is

stated to be in progress and offences under Sections 376 / 420 / 201 IPC are

stated to have been established against the accused-petitioner. During the

course of investigation of the case, the statement of prosecutrix under Section 164 Cr.P.C has also been recorded and her said statement is more or

less on the same lines. 4. According to the petitioner, the allegations made in the FIR are

vexatious and baseless. It is contended that on 29.01.2021, the prosecutrix

has lodged a complaint against the petitioner before Women's Police Station

Gandhi Nagar, Jammu in which she had not leveled any allegations of rape

or sexual assault against him. It is also contended that the FIR has been

lodged by the prosecutrix against the petitioner after a delay of about five

months without giving any explanation for the same. According to the

petitioner, the FIR has been lodged by the prosecutrix simply to blackmail

him. 5. Per contra, learned AAG appearing for the respondent has

vehemently contended that the petitioner has committed a serious offence

inasmuch as he has not only duped the prosecutrix of her money and 4 Bail App No.144/2021, CRM(M) No.288/2021 ornaments but he has also committed sexual assault upon her. It is contended

that the prosecutrix has, while making her statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C, reiterated the allegations against the petitioner and as such it cannot

be stated that no offence is made out against the petitioner. Learned AAG

has further contended that keeping in view the gravity of the offence and the

public interest involved, the petitioner does not deserve the concession of

bail. 6. I have heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the

record of case including the case diary. 7. So far as the principles governing the grant or refusal of bail are

concerned, the same are elucidated in a large number of judgements

rendered by the Supreme Court and our own High Court. These principles

may be summarised as under: 10. From the foregoing discussion of law on the subject, it is clear

that while the nature of offence and severity of punishment is an important

consideration for determining the bail plea of an accused, a prima facie view

of involvement of the accused in the alleged crime is a factor which is also

required to be considered. On this aspect of the matter, the learned counsel

for the petitioner has highlighted the fact that on 29.01.2021 the prosecutrix

had lodged a complaint before Women Police Station, Gandhi Nagar,

Jammu against the petitioner. A copy of the said complaint has been placed

on record. In the said complaint, the prosecutrix has not made even a

whisper as regards the allegation of sexual assault committed by the

petitioner upon her, though as per the case of the prosecution, the said sexual

assault has taken place on 31.10.2020, much prior to the lodging of the

aforesaid complaint. The only allegations made in the said complaint are that

on the pretext of help, the petitioner has taken gold ornaments and money

from her which he is not returning and instead is threatening her. The

question as to why the prosecutrix did not disclose the incident of rape while

making her earlier complaint before the police is a matter for the

investigating agency to probe but one thing is clear that this circumstance

does offer a defence to the petitioner against the charge of rape. 11. So far as the incident of alleged rape is concerned, the same has

taken place on 31.10.2020 but the report regarding the incident has been

lodged by the prosecutrix after about five months. Even though the

complaint on the basis of which, the FIR has been lodged runs into as many

as ten pages but there is no explanation given in the complaint as regards the

delay in lodging the report. It would be premature for this Court to deeply 7 Bail App No.144/2021, CRM(M) No.288/2021 analyse this aspect of the matter at this stage of the case, yet, for the limited

purpose of deciding this application, the aforesaid circumstance is required

to be taken into account. The mystery that has to be unravelled by the

investigating agency in these circumstances would be whether the

allegations of rape leveled by the prosecutrix against the accused are based

on facts or the same are an afterthought to pressurize the petitioner to settle

the monetary transaction with the prosecutrix. This Court would not like to

comment on the matter at this stage but the material on record does suggest

that there is a genuine defence available to the petitioner against the charge

of rape leveled against him by the prosecutrix. 12. Apart from the above, the petitioner has been in custody for the

last about four months and the case diary reveals that the investigation of the

case is almost complete. In these circumstances denying the petitioner the

concession of bail would amount to inflicting punishment upon him without

trial and the same may prejudice his right to prepare defence against the

charge that has been laid against him. Further, there is nothing on record to

even remotely suggest that in case the petitioner is granted bail, he would be

fleeing or thwarting the course of justice. 13. For the foregoing reasons, the petition is allowed and the petitioner

is admitted to bail subject to the following conditions: