( 2025:HHC:25612 )

 IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH, SHIMLA

 Cr. MP(M) No. 1627 of 2025

 . Hon'ble Mr Justice Rakesh Kainthla, Judge. Whether approved for reporting?1 Yes. For the Petitioner : Mr. Monty Goel, Advocate (through
 Video Conferencing) and Ms. Rashmi
 Parmar, Advocate (present in the
 Court). For the Respondent/State : Mr. Ajit Sharma, Deputy Advocate
 General, with ASI Jagpal Singh, IO PS
 Kangra, District Kangra, H.P., with

 police record. Rakesh Kainthla, Judge

 The petitioner has filed the present petition for seeking

 regular bail in FIR No. 158 of 2023 dated 12.09.2023, registered for

 the commission of offences punishable under Sections 22 & 29 of

 the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (in short 'the

 ND& PS Act ') at Police Station Kangra, District Kangra, H.P. 1 Whether reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the judgment? Yes. ( 2025:HHC:25612 ) 2. It has been asserted that, as per the FIR, the police

 approached the petitioner, who was standing with his friends. He

 . threw the bag after seeing the police. The police checked the bag

 and found LSD in it. The petitioner has been in custody for 01 year

 and 06 months. The prosecution has only examined 04 witnesses. No independent witness was present at the time of the recovery. There is a presumption of innocence in favour of the petitioner. The petitioner participated in the investigation to the satisfaction

 of the Investigating Officer. The petitioner does not have any

 criminal antecedents. His custodial interrogation is not required; therefore, it was prayed that the present petition be allowed and

 the petitioner be released on bail. 3. The petition is opposed by filing a status report

 asserting that the police party was on patrolling duty on

 12.09.2023. They received a secret information at 11:50 am that

 two persons were standing near the gate of Chhota Haridwar

 Mandir. 01 person has a grey backpack containing a huge quantity

 of LSD. The information was credible, and it was reduced to

 writing. The police party went to the spot and introduced

 themselves. The person tried to run away from the spot. The

 petitioner had a grey backpack, which he threw into the bushes. He ::: Downloaded on - 31/07/2025 21:24:57 :::CIS 3 ( 2025:HHC:25612 )

 identified himself as Rocky Malhotra, and the other person

 identified himself as Mukesh Kumar. The police checked the

 . backpack in the presence of the witnesses and found small 550

 rectangular pieces having LSD. The police weighed the pieces and

 found their weight to be 12.35 grams. The police arrested the

 petitioner and the other person. The paper pieces were sent to

 SFSL, Junga, and as per the report of the analyst, the presence of

 Lysergide (LSD) was detected. The amount of LSD was found to be

 47.79 mg per 11.525 g of LSD papers. The police filed the charge

 sheet. 10 witnesses have been examined, and the statements of 11

 witnesses are yet to be recorded. The matter is now listed on

 04.09.2025 for recording the statements of prosecution witnesses. Hence, the status report. 4. I have heard Mr. Monty Goel, learned counsel (through

 Video Conferencing), Ms. Rashmi Parmar, learned counsel

 (present in the Court) for the petitioner and Mr. Ajit Sharma,

 learned Deputy Advocate General, for the respondent/State. 5. Mr. Monty Goel, learned counsel for the petitioner,

 submitted that as per the report of the analyst, 47.79 mg per

 11.525g LSD papers was found, which is less than the commercial ::: Downloaded on - 31/07/2025 21:24:57 :::CIS 4 ( 2025:HHC:25612 )

 quantity and the rigours of Section 37 of the ND& PS Act do not

 apply to the present case. The petitioner has been in custody since

 . 12.09.2023, and the prosecution has failed to complete its

 evidence; therefore, he prayed that the present petition be allowed

 and the petitioner be released on bail. 6. Mr. Ajit Sharma, learned Deputy Advocate General,

 submitted that the weight of the neutral substance cannot be

 ignored, and if it is considered, the petitioner was found in

 possession of 11.25 grams of LSD papers, which is a commercial

 quantity, and the rigours of Section 37 of the ND& PS Act apply to

 the present case. The petitioner has not satisfied the twin

 conditions of Section 37 of the NDPS Act. The prosecution has

 already examined 10 witnesses, and 01 witness has been given up. The matter is listed before the learned Trial Court on 04.09.2025,

 and there is no delay in the progress of the trial. Hence, he prayed

 that the present petition be dismissed. 7. I have given considerable thought to the submissions

 made at the bar and have gone through the records carefully. ( 2025:HHC:25612 ) 8. The parameters for granting bail were considered by

 the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Ajwar v. Waseem (2024) 10 SCC 768: 9. This position was reiterated in Ramratan v. State of

 M.P. , 2024 SCC OnLine SC 3068, wherein it was observed as under: - to this objective. This Court in Parvez Noordin

 Lokhandwalla v. State of Maharastra (2020) 10 SCC 77
 observed that though the competent court is empowered to
 exercise its discretion to impose "any condition" for the

 grant of bail under Sections 437(3) and 439(1)(a) CrPC, the
 discretion of the court has to be guided by the need to
 facilitate the administration of justice, secure the presence
 of the accused and ensure that the liberty of the accused is

 not misused to impede the investigation, overawe the
 witnesses or obstruct the course of justice. The relevant
 observations are extracted herein below: (Emphasis supplied) 10. This position was reiterated in Shabeen Ahmed versus

 State of U.P. , 2025 SCC Online SC 479. 11. The present petition has to be decided as per the

 parameters laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court. ( 2025:HHC:25612 ) 12. As per the status report, the petitioner threw the

 backpack after police officials introduced themselves. The police

 . checked the backpack in the presence of Vinod Kumar, Ward

 Panch, Gram Panchayat Kachhiyari and found 550 rectangular

 paper pieces weighing 12.35 grams containing LSD; therefore, the

 allegations in the status report, prima facie, show the possession of

 LSD by the petitioner. 13. A heavy reliance was placed upon the report of the

 analyst in which the quantity of LSD was stated to be 47.79 mg per

 11.525 g LSD papers, to submit that the quantity of LSD is less than

 100 mg, and the same is a non-commercial quantity. This

 submission cannot be accepted. It was held by the Hon'ble

 Supreme Court in Hira Singh v. Union of India , (2020) 20 SCC 272,

 that as per the statement of Objects and Reasons and the Preamble

 and the relevant provisions of the NDPS Act , the quantity of

 neutral substance cannot be excluded. It was observed: Notification dated 19-10-2001, Column 2 is with respect to

 the name of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances
 and Columns 5 and 6 are with respect to "small quantity
 and commercial quantity". Note 2 of the Notification dated

 19-10-2001 specifically provides that the quantity shown
 against the respective drugs listed in the Table also applies
 to the preparations of the drug and the preparations of
 substances of Note 1. As per Note 1, the small quantity and

 commercial quantity given against the respective drugs
 listed in the Table apply to isomers ..., whenever the
 existence of such substance is possible. Therefore, for the

 determination of "small quantity or the commercial

 quantity" with respect to narcotic drugs and psychotropic
 substances mentioned in Column 2, the quantity mentioned
 in Clauses 5 and 6 is required to be taken into consideration.
 However, in the case of a mixture of the narcotic

 drugs/psychotropic drugs mentioned in Column 2 and any
 mixture or preparation with or without the neutral material
 of any of the drugs mentioned in Table, lesser of the small

 quantity between the quantities given against the respective
 narcotic drugs or psychotropic substances forming part of

 the mixture and lesser of commercial quantity between the
 quantities given against the respective narcotic drugs or

 psychotropic substance forming part of the mixture is to be
 taken into consideration. For example, a mixture of 100 gm
 is seized and the mixture consists of two different narcotic
 drugs and psychotropic substances with neutral material,
 one drug is heroin and the other is methadone, the lesser of
 the commercial quantities between the quantities given
 against the aforesaid two respective narcotic drugs and
 psychotropic substances is required to be considered. For
 the purpose of determination of the "small quantity or
 commercial quantity", in the case of Entry 239, the entire
 weight of the mixture/drug by whatever name called weight ::: Downloaded on - 31/07/2025 21:24:57 :::CIS 10 ( 2025:HHC:25612 )

 of neutral material is also required to be considered subject
 to what is stated hereinabove. If the view taken by this
 Court in E. Micheal Raj [E. Micheal Raj v. Narcotics Control . Bureau, (2008) 5 SCC 161 : (2008) 2 SCC (Cri) 558] is accepted , in that case , it would be adding something to the relevant
 provisions of the statute which is not there and/or it was
 never intended by the legislature. 10.3. At this stage, it is required to be noted that illicit drugs
 are seldom sold in a pure form. They are almost always
 adulterated or cut with other substances. Caffeine is mixed
 with heroin; it causes heroin to vaporise at a lower rate. That could allow users to take the drug faster and get a big
 punch sooner. Aspirin, crushed tablets, they could have
 enough powder to amend reversal doses of drugs. Take the

 example of heroin. It is known as a powerful and illegal

 street drug and opiate derived from morphine. This drug
 can easily be "cut" with a variety of different substances.
 This means that drug dealers will add other drugs or non-
 intoxicating substances to the drug so that they can sell

 more of it at a lesser expense to themselves. Brown
 sugar/smack is usually made available in powder form. The
 substance is only about 20% heroin. The heroin is mixed

 with other substances like chalk powder and zinc oxide,
 because of these impurities in the drug, brown sugar is

 cheaper but more dangerous. These are only a few examples
 to show and demonstrate that even a mixture of narcotic

 drugs or psychotropic substances is more dangerous.
 Therefore, what is harmful or injurious is the entire
 mixture/tablets with neutral substances and narcotic drugs
 or psychotropic substances. Therefore, if it is accepted that
 it is only the actual content by weight of the offending drug
 which is relevant for determining whether it would
 constitute a small quantity or commercial quantity , in that
 case , the object and purpose of the enactment of the NDPS
 Act would be frustrated. There may be few punishments for
 "commercial quantity". Certainly, that would not have been
 the intention of the legislature. ( 2025:HHC:25612 )

 10.4. Even considering the definition of "manufacture",
 "manufactured drug" and "preparation" conjointly, the
 total weight of such "manufactured drug" or

 . . Ans: If the alleged contraband seized falls within the

 definition of 'manufactured drug' under Section 2(xi) of the NDPS Act, then the entire notification, including
 the aforesaid 'Note 4', will be applicable." 15. This judgment was followed in H.S. Arun Kumar v. State

 of Goa, 2022 SCC OnLine Bom 4696 , and it was held that the weight

 of the neutral substance has to be considered while determining

 the quantity under the NDPS Act . Hence, the weight of blotting

 paper containing LSD was to be considered for determining the

 quantity. It was observed: - tent. As noted hereafter, "preparation" in relation to
 a narcotic drug or psychotropic substance specifically
 includes "mixture" in whatever physical state con-
 taining one or more such narcotic drugs or psy-
 chotropic substances. Thus, the legislative intent is
 clear that the entire quantity of the preparation is to ::: Downloaded on - 31/07/2025 21:24:57 :::CIS 13 ( 2025:HHC:25612 )

 be taken into account and weighed for determining
 the quantum of punishment and not merely the pure
 drug content for such preparation or mixture; . (ii) Section 2 (xx) defines "preparation" in relation to

 a narcotic drug or psychotropic substance means any
 one or more such drugs or substances in dosage form
 or any solution or mixture, in whatever physical

 state, containing one or more such drugs or sub-
 stances. Thus, it is evident that "preparation" in-
 cludes a mixture, in whatever physical state, contain-
 ing one or more such drugs or substances. So, the

 L.S.D. and a substance that may or may not be either a
 drug or a psychotropic substance, i.e., a neutral sub-
 stance. The definition explicitly provides that such a

 mixture may be "in whatever physical state", but as

 long as such a mixture contains one or more such
 drugs or substances, the same would constitute a
 "preparation" under Section (xx) of the NDPS Act . (iii) Section 2 (xxiii) defines "psychotropic sub- stance" to mean any substance, natural or synthetic,
 or any natural material or any salt or preparation of
 such substance or material included in the list of psy- chotropic substances specified in the Schedule. The

 Schedule at Entry 4 includes L.S.D., L.S.D. 25. There-
 fore, there is no dispute about the L.S.D. being a psy-
 chotropic substance. However, Section 2(xxiii) in- cludes not only a psychotropic substance specified in
 the Schedule but also a "preparation" of such sub-
 stance or material included in the list of psychotropic
 substances specified in the Schedule. As noted earlier,
 the definition of "preparation" explicitly includes a
 mixture, in whatever physical state, containing one
 or more psychotropic substances. Thus, it is clear that
 a mixture of LSD and blotter would constitute a psy-
 chotropic substance as defined under Section
 2(xxviii) of the NDPS Act. ( 2025:HHC:25612 ) (iv) Section 2(xxiii) refers to a list of psychotropic
 substances specified in the Schedule. As noted earlier,
 the L.S.D. finds a mention in Entry 4. Entry 111 of this

 . Schedule refers to "salts and preparations of the

 above". This means Entry 111 refers to salts and
 preparations of the psychotropic substances listed in
 Entries 1 to 110. A preparation, as noted earlier, would

 include a mixture containing LSD. Thus, even the
 preparation of L.S.D. will amount to a psychotropic
 substance in terms of Section 2(xxiii) of the NDPS Act. (v) Even the definition of "manufacture" in Section

 2(x) includes making or preparation (otherwise than
 in a pharmacy on prescription) with or containing
 such drugs or substances. The expression makes it

 clear that even making a preparation (which includes

 a mixture) with L.S.D. or containing L.S.D. would con-
 stitute "manufacture" as defined under Section 2(x) of the NDPS Act. (vi) Sections 2(xxiiia) and 2(viia) define "small quan- tity" and "commercial quantity" in relation to nar-
 cotic drugs and psychotropic substances. In terms of
 these definition clauses, the Central Government has

 issued a notification dated 19.10.2001, as amended

 from time to time. Entry 133 of this Notification
 specifically refers to L.S.D., L.S.D. 25. However, what
 is more relevant is Entry 239, which refers to any

 mixture or preparation with or without a neutral ma-
 terial or any of the above drugs. From the context, it
 is apparent that the expression "drugs" would in-
 clude both the narcotic drugs and psychotropic sub-
 stances listed in Entries 1 to 238. Therefore, no con-
 trary contention on this aspect was even raised before
 us. Thus, it is clear that the Notification contemplates
 not only the narcotic drugs and psychotropic sub-
 stances but also any mixture or preparation of with or
 without neutral material of any of the narcotic drugs ::: Downloaded on - 31/07/2025 21:24:57 :::CIS 15 ( 2025:HHC:25612 )

 and psychotropic substances listed in entries 1 to 238
 of the Notification. (vii) The Notification dated 19.10.2001, in the context

 . of Entry 239, provides the mode of determining the

 small or commercial quantity of the mixture or
 preparation. It provides that the lesser of the small
 quantity between the quantities given against the re- spective narcotic drugs or psychotropic substances
 mentioned above, forming part of the mixture, will
 have to be considered. The same also applies to the
 determination of commercial quantities. Note 4 below

 this Notification is most important because it states
 that the quantities shown in column 5 and column 6
 of the Table relating to the respective drugs shown in

 column 2 shall apply to the entire mixture or any so- lution or any one or more narcotic drugs or psy-
 chotropic substances of that particular drug in dosage
 form or isomer, esters, ethers and salts of these
 drugs, including salts of esters, ethers and isomers,

 wherever existence of such substance is possible and
 not just its pure drug content. 65. The statutory provisions and the scheme of the NDPS

 Act referred to above clearly provide, in more places than

 one place, that the weight of the entire mixture and not
 just its pure drug content must be taken into account for
 determining whether the quantity is small, intermediate

 quantity or a commercial quantity. Moreover, the state-
 ment of object and reasons for introducing the amendment
 to the NDPS Act in 2014 explicitly clarifies the legislative
 intent to take the entire quantity of drug seized in a case
 for determining the quantum of punishment and not just
 the pure drug content. 66. This amendment was introduced after the decision of
 the Division Bench of the Supreme Court in E. Michael
 Raj v. Narcotics Control Bureau 2008 (5) SCC 161, which held
 that a pure drug content and not the entire weight of the
 mixture being relevant is also a significant factor. Ulti- ( 2025:HHC:25612 )

 mately, E. Michael Raj (supra) was overruled by Hira
 Singh (supra). Hira Singh (supra) held that the legal posi-
 tion before E. Michael Raj (supra) that the entire quantity of

 . the drug seized would be relevant to determine the quan- tum of punishment and not just the pure drug content.
 Thus, considering the legislative intervention after E.
 Michael Raj (supra) and the judicial overruling of E. Michael

 Raj (supra) by Hira Singh (supra), any argument that only
 the weight of pure LSD is relevant to determining the
 quantum of punishment would not be sustained. 16. Hence, in view of the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme

 Court in Hira Singh 's case (supra), the submission that the weight

 of the paper is not to be calculated while determining the quantity

 found in possession of the petitioner cannot be accepted. 17. The petitioner was found in possession of 47.79 mg per

 11.525 g LSD papers, which is a commercial quantity; therefore,

 the rigours of Section 37 of the NDPS Act will apply to the present

 case. Section 37 of the NDPS Act provides that in an offence

 involving commercial quantity, the Court should be satisfied that

 the accused is not guilty of the commission of an offence and is

 not likely to commit any offence while on bail. Section 37 of the

 NDPS Act reads as under: offences under section 19 or section 24 or section 27A ,

 and also for offences involving commercial quantity,
 shall be released on bail or on his own bond unless- (i) the Public Prosecutor has been given an

 opportunity to oppose the application for
 such release, and (ii) where the Public Prosecutor opposes the

 application, the court is satisfied that there
 are reasonable grounds for believing that he
 is not guilty of such an offence and that he is
 not likely to commit any offence while on
 r bail. (2) The limitations on granting of bail specified in
 clause (b) of sub-section (1) are in addition to the
 limitations under the Code of Criminal Procedure ,
 1973 (2 of 1974) or any other law for the time being

 in force, on granting of bail." 18. This Section was interpreted by the Hon'ble Supreme

 Court in Union of India Versus Niyazuddin & Another (2018) 13 SCC

 738 and it was held that in the absence of the satisfaction that the

 accused is not guilty of an offence and he is not likely to commit an

 offence while on bail, he cannot be released on bail. It was

 observed: . 8. The accusation in the present case is with regard to the
 fourth factor, namely, commercial quantity. Be that as
 it may, once the Public Prosecutor opposes the

 application for bail to a person accused of the
 enumerated offences under Section 37 of the NDPS
 Act, in case, the court proposes to grant bail to such a
 person, two conditions are to be mandatorily satisfied

 in addition to the normal requirements under the
 provisions of the Cr.P.C . or any other enactment.
 (1) The court must be satisfied that there are
 reasonable grounds for believing that the person

 is not guilty of such an offence; (2) that person is not likely to commit any offence
 while on bail." 19. This position was reiterated in State of Kerala Versus

 Rajesh, AIR 2020 SC 721, wherein it was held: 20. The scheme of Section 37 reveals that the exercise of
 power to grant bail is not only subject to the

 limitations contained under Section 439 of the CrPC
 but is also subject to the limitation placed by Section
 37 , which commences with the non-obstante clause. The operative part of the said section is in the negative
 form prescribing the enlargement of bail to any person

 accused of the commission of an offence under the Act
 unless twin conditions are satisfied. The first
 condition is that the prosecution must be given an

 opportunity to oppose the application, and the second
 is that the Court must be satisfied that there are
 reasonable grounds for believing that he is not guilty
 of such an offence. If either of these two conditions is
 not satisfied, the ban for granting bail operates. 21. The expression "reasonable grounds" means something
 more than prima facie grounds. It contemplates
 substantial probable causes for believing that the
 accused is not guilty of the alleged offence. The
 reasonable belief contemplated in the provision
 requires the existence of such facts and circumstances ::: Downloaded on - 31/07/2025 21:24:57 :::CIS 21 ( 2025:HHC:25612 )

 as are sufficient in themselves to justify satisfaction
 that the accused is not guilty of the alleged offence. In
 the case on hand, the High Court seems to have

 . completely overlooked the underlying object of Section

 37 that in addition to the limitations provided under
 the CrPC , or any other law for the time being in force,
 regulating the grant of bail, its liberal approach in the

 matter of bail under the NDPS Act is indeed uncalled
 for." 20. A similar view was taken in Union of India v. Mohd . Nawaz Khan, (2021) 10 SCC 100: (2021) 3 SCC (Cri) 721: 2021 SCC

 OnLine SC 1237, wherein it was observed at page 110: "21. Under Section 37(1)(b)(ii) , the limitations on the grant

 of bail for offences punishable under Sections 19 , 24 or 27-A
 and also for offences involving a commercial quantity are: 22. The standard prescribed for the grant of bail is
 "reasonable ground to believe" that the person

 is not guilty of the offence. Interpreting the standard
 of "reasonable grounds to believe", a two-judge
 Bench of this Court in Shiv Shanker Kesari [Union of
 India v. Shiv Shanker Kesari , (2007) 7 SCC 798: (2007) 3
 SCC (Cri) 505], held that: (SCC pp. 801-02, paras 7-8 &
 10-11)
 "7. The expression used in Section 37(1)(b)(ii) is
 "reasonable grounds". The expression means
 something more than prima facie grounds. It
 connotes substantial probable causes for believing
 that the accused is not guilty of the offence charged, ::: Downloaded on - 31/07/2025 21:24:57 :::CIS 22 ( 2025:HHC:25612 )

 and this reasonable belief, contemplated in turn,
 points to the existence of such facts and
 circumstances as are sufficient in themselves to

 . justify the recording of satisfaction that the accused

 is not guilty of the offence charged. 8. The word "reasonable" has in law the prima
 facie meaning of reasonable in regard to those

 circumstances of which the actor, called on to
 act reasonably, knows or ought to know. It is
 difficult to give an exact definition of the word
 "reasonable". '7. ... Stroud's Judicial Dictionary, 4th Edn., p. 2258
 states that it would be unreasonable to expect an
 exact definition of the word "reasonable". Reason varies in its conclusions according to the
 idiosyncrasy of the individual, and the times and

 circumstances in which he thinks. The
 reasoning which built up the old scholastic logic
 sounds now like the jingling of a child's toy.'

 [See MCD v. Jagan Nath Ashok
 Kumar [MCD v. Jagan Nath Ashok Kumar, (1987) 4
 SCC 497], SCC p. 504, para 7 and Gujarat Water

 Supply & Sewerage Board v. Unique Erectors
 (Gujarat) (P) Ltd. [Gujarat Water Supply &

 Sewerage Board v. Unique Erectors (Gujarat) (P)
 Ltd., (1989) 1 SCC 532]]

 *** 10. The word "reasonable" signifies "in
 accordance with reason". In the ultimate
 analysis, it is a question of fact whether a
 particular act is reasonable or not, depends on
 the circumstances in a given situation.
 (See Municipal Corpn. of Greater Mumbai v. Kamla
 Mills Ltd. [Municipal Corpn. of Greater
 Mumbai v. Kamla Mills Ltd. (2003) 6 SCC 315] 11. The court, while considering the application
 for bail with reference to Section 37 of the Act, is ::: Downloaded on - 31/07/2025 21:24:57 :::CIS 23 ( 2025:HHC:25612 )

 not called upon to record a finding of not guilty.
 It is for the limited purpose, essentially confined
 to the question of releasing the accused on bail,

 . that the court is called upon to see if there are

 reasonable grounds for believing that the
 accused is not guilty and records its satisfaction
 about the existence of such grounds. But the

 court has not to consider the matter as if it is
 pronouncing a judgment of acquittal and
 recording a finding of not guilty." (emphasis supplied) 23. Based on the above precedent, the test that the
 High Court and this Court are required to apply while
 granting bail is whether there are reasonable grounds

 to believe that the accused has not committed an
 offence and whether he is likely to commit any offence

 while on bail. Given the seriousness of offences
 punishable under the NDPS Act and in order to curb
 the menace of drug trafficking in the country,

 stringent parameters for the grant of bail under the NDPS Act have been prescribed." 21. This position was reiterated in Narcotics Control Bureau

 v. Mohit Aggarwal , 2022 SCC OnLine SC 891, wherein it was

 observed: means something more than prima facie grounds. It
 contemplates substantial probable causes for believing that
 the accused is not guilty of the alleged offence. The

 reasonable belief contemplated in the provision requires the
 existence of such facts and circumstances as are sufficient in
 themselves to justify satisfaction that the accused is not
 guilty of the alleged offence." [emphasis added] 13. The expression "reasonable ground" came up for
 discussion in " State of Kerala v. Rajesh " (2020) 12 SCC 122 ,
 and this Court has observed as below: 14. To sum up, the expression "reasonable grounds" used in
 clause (b) of Sub-Section (1) of Section 37 would mean
 credible, plausible and grounds for the Court to believe that
 the accused person is not guilty of the alleged offence. For

 arriving at any such conclusion, such facts and

 circumstances must exist in a case that can persuade the
 Court to believe that the accused person would not have
 committed such an offence. Dove-tailed with the aforesaid
 satisfaction is an additional consideration that the accused

 person is unlikely to commit any offence while on bail. 15. We may clarify that at the stage of examining an

 application for bail in the context of Section 37 of the Act,
 the Court is not required to record a finding that the accused

 person is not guilty. The Court is also not expected to weigh
 the evidence for arriving at a finding as to whether the
 accused has committed an offence under the NDPS Act or

 not. The entire exercise that the Court is expected to
 undertake at this stage is for the limited purpose of
 releasing him on bail. Thus, the focus is on the availability
 of reasonable grounds for believing that the accused is not
 guilty of the offences that he has been charged with and that
 he is unlikely to commit an offence under the Act while on
 bail. 22. In the present case, the petitioner was, prima facie,

 found in possession of a commercial quantity of LSD, and there is ::: Downloaded on - 31/07/2025 21:24:57 :::CIS 26 ( 2025:HHC:25612 )

 nothing to show that he will not commit the offence if released on

 bail. Thus, he has failed to satisfy the requirements of Section 37 . of the NDPS Act , and is not entitled to bail. 23. No other point was urged. 24. In view of the above, the present petition fails and the

 same is dismissed. 25.

 The observation made herein before shall remain

 confined to the disposal of the instant petition and will have no

 bearing, whatsoever, on the merits of the case. (Rakesh Kainthla)
 Judge

 31st July 2025
 (Shamsh Tabrez) ::: Downloaded on - 31/07/2025 21:24:57 :::CIS