1. Heard   Mr.Samir   Dave,   learned   counsel   appearing 
 for the applicant­original accused no.3, Mr. L.B. 
 Dabhi, learned APP for the respondent State and 
 Mr.   I.M.   Syed,   learned   counsel   for   the 
 complainant. 2. By this application under section 438 of the Code 
 of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (hereinafter referred 
 to as the "Code"), the applicant has prayed for 
 anticipatory   bail   in   connection   with   the 
 complaint   registered   as   C.R.   No.   I­12   of   2016 
 registered   with   Idar   Police   Station   for   the 
 alleged offences under sections 306 , 504 , 506(2) , 384 and 114 of   the   IPC   and section   33(1) and 33(1) A of the Bombay Money Lenders Act, 1946. 3. Mr.Samir Dave, learned counsel appearing for the 
 applicant has taken this Court to the contents of 
 the   FIR   and   has   submitted   that   the   only   role Page 1 of 8 HC-NIC Page 1 of 8 Created On Sun Apr 17 00:12:20 IST 2016
 R/CR.MA/7258/2016 ORDER

 which can be attributed to the present applicant 
 is that of demand of the money, which was raised 
 by way of loan.   Mr. Dave, submitted that there 
 is   nothing   in   the   FIR   to   connect   the   present 
 applicant and in fact, the applicant is not the 
 person   from   whom   the   loan   is   taken,   but   the 
 applicant   has   only   signed   as   a   witness   in   the 
 sale   deed   which   was   executed   in   favour   of 
 Ramlavat   Kiritsinh   Pravinsinh   on   23.09.2015 
 before   the   sub­registrar   of   documents   at   Idar. 
 Mr. Dave further submitted that the accused no.4 
 and 5 have been granted anticipatory bail by this 
 Court   vide   order   dated   01.04.2016   passed   in 
 Criminal Misc. Application No.6623/16 and 6835/16 
 and therefore, similar view may be taken in case 
 of the present applicant also.  Mr. Dave, learned 
 counsel   also   submitted   that   there   is   no   direct 
 evidence to show that the applicant is involved 
 in   the   offence   as   alleged   and   there   is   no 
 allegation   in   the   FIR   which   would   lead   to   the 
 proximity of the incident in question. 4. Mr.   Dave   also   relied   upon   the   judgment   of   the 
 Apex   Court   in   the   case   of   Sanju   alias   Sanjay 
 Singh Sengar vs. State of M.P. Reported in (2002) 
 5 SCC 371 as well as the judgment in the case of Bhadresh Bipinbhai Sheth vs. State of Gujarat and 
 Anr. reported   in   2015(3)   GLH   165   and   submitted 
 that   considering   the   role   attributed   and 
 proximity   of   the   offence,   the   applicant   be 
 released on anticipatory bail on same conditions 
 as in the case of other two co­accused nos.4 & 5. Mr.   Dave,   further   submitted   that   the   sale   deed 
 was executed way back on 23.09.2015, whereas the 
 alleged   incident   has   taken   place   on   16.01.2016. 
 Mr.   Dave   also   pointed   out   that   in   fact   the 
 deceased has signed as the witness in one another 
 document   dated   09.11.2015.     On   the   aforesaid 
 ground   therefore,   it   was   contended   that   the 
 application be allowed as prayed for. 5. Per contra, Mr. Dabhi, learned APP as well as Mr. 
 Syed,   learned   counsel   appearing   for   the 
 complainant has opposed this application and has 
 submitted that the applicant has direct role as 
 per   the   FIR,   which   is   in   fact   lodged   by   the 
 deceased   himself   and   is   in   the   form   of   dyeing 
 declaration.     Mr.   Dabhi,   learned   APP   submitted 
 that   the   role   of   the   accused   no.   4   &   5   were 
 different and no parity can be granted. Mr.Dabhi, 
 learned APP submitted that there is a mistake in 
 the  typed  copy  of  the  FIR   and  pointed   out  from 
 certified copy of the FIR that there is a direct 
 allegation   against   the   present   applicant. 
 Mr.Dabhi,   learned   APP   pointed   out   that   it   is 
 mentioned in the FIR itself that a day before the 
 occurrence   of   the   incident,   the   applicant   is 
 alleged   to   have   made   attempts   to   recover   the 
 amount due and payable and have given threats as 
 alleged.   Mr. Dabhi, learned APP further pointed 
 out   that   the   applicant   has   criminal   antecedent 
 and   is   an   accused   in   the   offence   registered   as 
 C.R. No.I­47/15 with Jadav Police Station for the 
 offences punishable under sections 324, 395, 143, Page 3 of 8 HC-NIC Page 3 of 8 Created On Sun Apr 17 00:12:20 IST 2016
 R/CR.MA/7258/2016 ORDER

 147, 148, 149, 323, 34, 427, 452, 120B of IPC and 
 under section 135 of Gujarat Police Act and the 
 applicant is wanted and is absconding in the said 
 offence and therefore, there is every likelihood 
 that   if   anticipatory   bail   is   granted,   the 
 applicant is likely to jump the bail. 6. No other or further contentions are raised. 7. On perusal of the FIR, it is clear that the same 
 is   registered   on   17.01.2016   by   the   deceased 
 himself.   It also appears from the FIR that the 
 present applicant had also given threats to the 
 deceased.   There is no doubt that the action of 
 getting   the   sale   deed   executed   is   not   in 
 proximity   of   time,   to   the   incident   as   it   was 
 registered   on   23.09.2015,   but   the   fact   remains 
 that   the   role   of   the   present   applicant   is 
 directly evident from the FIR itself.  It further 
 appears that the role of the accused nos. 4 & 5 
 who   are   granted   anticipatory   bail   is   different 
 and   distinct.     The   applicant   had   advanced   loan 
 and   direct   allegation   against   the   applicant   is 
 made   in   the   FIR   registered   by   deceased   himself 
 and   therefore,   no   parity   can   be   given   to   the 
 applicant.     Considering   the   role   attributed   and 
 the gravity of offence, the case of the applicant 
 is   distinct   from   the   other   two   accused.     In 
 addition to that the antecedent of the applicant 
 also   is   an   important   factor   which   requires 
 consideration by this Court. 8. Considering   the   factors   which   are laid   down   by the Apex Court in the case of Bhadresh Bipinbhai 
 Sheth (supra),   the   power   and   the   jurisdiction 
 under section 438 of the Code is to be exercised 
 carefully and on evaluation of the facts of each 
 case.     Considering   the   role   attributed   to   the 
 applicant   therefore,   custodial   interrogation   in 
 the   opinion   of   this   Court   is   necessary.     The 
 contention   that   the   mere   allegation   in   the   FIR 
 would not constitute an offence under section 306 of the IPC cannot be considered at a stage when 
 the investigation as per the learned APP is at a 
 very primitive and crucial stage and considering 
 the antecedent of the applicant therefore, it is 
 a fit case to not to exercise the power of this 
 Court under section 438 of the Code. Considering 
 the role attributed to the applicant even taking 
 into   consideration   ratio laid   down   by the   Apex 
 Court in Sanju alias Sanjay Singh Sengar (supra), 
 in   the   opinion   of   this   Court,   custodial 
 interrogation is necessary. At this juncture, it 
 would be appropriate to refer to the judgment of 
 the Apex Court in the case of Jai Prakash Singh 
 vs. State of Bihar & Anr. reported in AIR 2012 SC 
 1675 wherein, the Apex Court has observed thus ­

 "7.   The   provisions   of Section   438 of 
 Cr.P.C. lay down guidelines for considering 
 the   anticipatory   bail   application,   which 
 read as under: "438. Direction for grant of 
 bail   to   person   apprehending   arrest.­   (1) 
 Where any person has reason to believe that 
 he   may   be   arrested   on   an   accusation   of  
 having committed a non­bailable offence, he Page 5 of 8 HC-NIC Page 5 of 8 Created On Sun Apr 17 00:12:20 IST 2016
 R/CR.MA/7258/2016 ORDER

 may apply to the High Court or the Court of  
 Session   for   a   direction   under   this   section  
 that in the event of such arrest, he shall 
 be   released   on   bail;   and   that   court   may, 
 after taking into consideration, inter alia,  
 the following factors, namely:­ (i)   The   nature   and   gravity   of   the  
 accusation; (ii)   The   antecedents   of   the   applicant  
 including   the   fact   as   to   whether   he   has 
 previously   undergone   imprisonment   on 
 conviction   by   a   court   in   respect   of   any 
 cognizable offence; (iii)   the   possibility   of   the   applicant   to 
 flee from justice; and (iv) where the accusation has been made with  
 the   object   of   injuring   or   humiliating   the 
 applicant by having him so arrested, either 
 reject the application forthwith or issue an  
 interim order for the grant of anticipatory 
 bail." However,   neither   anticipatory   bail   nor 
 regular bail can be granted as a matter of 
 rule.   The   anticipatory   bail   being   an 
 extraordinary   privilege   should   be   granted 
 only   in   exceptional   cases.   The   judicial 
 discretion   conferred   upon   the   court   has   to  
 be   properly   exercised   after   proper 
 application of mind to decide whether it is 
 a fit case for grant of anticipatory bail." 9. In facts of this case, considering the gravity of 
 offence   and   the   fact   that   FIR   is   promptly 
 registered by deceased himself, it is not a fit 
 case for exercise of discretion in favour of the 
 applicant   and   to   enlarge   the   applicant   on 
 anticipatory bail under section 438 of the Code 
 that   too   at   the   very   primitive   stage   of   the 
 investigation. 10. In light of the aforesaid and more particularly, 
 considering the role attributed to the applicant 
 and   the   antecedent   and   also   considering   the 
 police   papers,   which   was   made   available   to   the 
 Court,   the   application   deserves   to   be   dismissed 
 and is hereby dismissed.  Rule discharged.