% 24.04.2025 1. This hearing has been done through hybrid mode. 2. The present application under Section 482 of the BNSS seeks
 anticipatory bail in case FIR No. 950/2023, under Sections 419 / 420 of the IPC
 ( Sections 319(2) / 318(4) of the BNS), registered at P.S. Rajouri Garden. 3. The case of the prosecution is that on 23.12.2023, a PCR call vide GD
 No. 64A was received at P.S. Rajouri Garden with regard to one fake
 candidate appearing in place of another candidate by impersonation in EMRS
 (Eklavya Model Residential School) recruitment competitive examination
 which was being conducted in Kendriya Vidyalaya. E-Block, Tagore Garden.
 On reaching the spot, Dr. Sanjay Kumar, Principal of the said school gave a

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 24/04/2025 at 22:24:17
 written complaint and one Avinash Kumar was apprehended who was
 appearing in place of Neeraj Kumar Meena for the post of Lab Attendant.
 Thereafter on the registration of the FIR, investigation started and an aadhar
 card in the name of Neeraj Kumar Meena having a photo of Avinash, who
 was impersonating him, was recovered from his possession. During
 investigation, it is alleged that the aforesaid Sahil Kumar @ Avinash disclosed
 that he alongwith the present applicant and Roop Singh Bairwa and Neeraj
 Kumar Meena hatched a conspiracy to appear in the said exam in the place of
 Neeraj Kumar Meena who was known to Roop Singh Bairwa. He further
 disclosed that he came in touch with the present applicant while studying in a
 coaching centre. He further disclosed that the present applicant had
 forged/morphed the aadhar card and admit card of the candidate, Neeraj
 Kumar Meena. 4. Learned counsel for the applicant submits that the latter was known to
 Avinash Kumar as a friend and was in regular touch with him. It is further
 submitted that vide order dated 08.01.2025, this Court had given interim
 protection to present applicant to join the investigation. It is further submitted
 that the transaction relied upon by the prosecution is being explained by the
 applicant that he had given a loan to the aforesaid Avinash Kumar, who was
 repaying him by way of amount credited to his account. It is further submitted
 that the applicant has been cooperative with the investigation. 5. Per contra, learned APP for the State submits that the accounts show
 that the money was transferred to the present applicant's account and as per
 the disclosure statement, it was the present applicant who had morphed the
 Aadhar card of the aforesaid candidate. 6. On a pointed query, it is submitted that apart from the aforesaid

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 24/04/2025 at 22:24:17
 transaction, there is no connection of co-accused, Roop Singh Bairwa, with
 the present applicant. It is the admitted case of the prosecution itself that the
 co-accused, Avinash Kumar, was known to the present applicant. The
 transactions as relied upon by the prosecution are a matter of trial for which
 the applicant has come forward with an explanation, which will be tested
 during the course of the trial. 7. In totality of the facts and circumstances of the case, the present
 application is allowed. In the event of arrest, the applicant is directed to be
 released on bail on his furnishing personal bond of Rs. 50,000/- with one
 surety of like amount to the satisfaction of the Investigating Officer/Arresting
 Officer, further subject to following conditions: 8. The application is allowed and disposed of accordingly. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 24/04/2025 at 22:24:17 9. Pending applications, if any, also stand disposed of. 10. Needless to state that, nothing mentioned hereinabove, is an opinion on
 the merits of the case and any observations made herein are only for the
 purpose of the present bail application. 11. Order be uploaded on the website of this court forthwith. AMIT SHARMA, J
 APRIL 24, 2025/bsr

 Click here to check corrigendum, if any

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 24/04/2025 at 22:24:17