G. P. Sewalia, the applicant herein, while functioning as Chairman and Managing Director (CMD) of Delhi Scheduled Castes Financial and Development Corporation Limited (DSCFDCL), during the year 1992 ordered investment of Rs.11 crores, Rs.1.50 crores and Rs.3.75 crores respectively with the Syndicate Bank under Portfolio Management Scheme (PMS). He received a memorandum dated 23.8.1999 (Annexure A-2) proposing to hold departmental enquiry against him under rule 8 of the All India Services (Discipline & Appeal) Rules, 1969. Annexed with the memorandum aforesaid as Annexures-I and II were the article of charge and the statement of imputation of misconduct against him. 2.	Briefly put, the applicant was departmentally tried on the allegations that he was not authorised to invest the surplus funds of DSCFDCL in scheme like PMS without guaranteeing a pre-determined return, and inasmuch as, he had made a fluctuating investment for long term (one year) for a yield of 16.25% per annum, whereas the State Bank of India had initially offered a rate of 15.5% per annum for any period, and the fluctuating investment resulted into lesser yield, he had committed gross misconduct by exhibiting lack of devotion to duty and by acting in a manner unbecoming of a member of the Service and prejudicial to the interest of DSCFDCL thereby contravening rule 3(1) of the All India Services (Conduct) Rules, 1968. 3.	The pertinent and somewhat significant question that arises for adjudication in the present case is as to whether, assuming the facts said to be constituting the misconduct to be true, would it be a case where the applicant may not have maintained absolute integrity and devotion to duty or done something which is unbecoming of a member of the Service. The applicant, through his learned counsel, would canvass that de hors the merits of the charges against him, the entire proceedings are markedly perverse and amount to gross abuse of the disciplinary proceeding mechanism itself, and that if, on grounds such as on which the applicant was departmentally tried, the exercise of discretion by him as CMD of DSCFDCL as to how the funds of organisation should be invested, is to be made subject matter of disciplinary proceedings, it would become well neigh impossible for any CMD or high officer to take decisions for the benefit of his organisation. The applicant, it is urged, acted in the best interests of the organisation, and no ulterior or corrupt motives are imputed to him, and that being so, it would be a travesty of justice if the disciplinary authority is allowed to sit in appeal over the decision of the applicant and judge whether he should have invested the money of DSCFDCL in one bank or the other, or for that matter, he should have opted for a fixed yield which was admittedly lesser than the fluctuating yield for which the investment was made. The respondents, through their learned counsel, would, however, join issues with the learned counsel representing the applicant on the issues as mentioned above and would contend that the allegations subject matter of charge do amount to misconduct and, therefore, the applicant has been rightly punished and inasmuch as there was no mala fide intention involved, the applicant has been inflicted only with a minor penalty, and that there would be no occasion for this Tribunal to interfere with the well reasoned orders passed by the concerned authorities. 4.	The facts of the case, before we may evaluate, comment and determine the controversy as reflected above, would need necessary mention. The proceedings culminating into the impugned order emanated from memorandum dated 23.8.1999, whereby it was proposed to hold departmental enquiry against the applicant under rule 8 of the Rules of 1969. The chargesheet alleged that the applicant had committed gross misconduct by exhibiting lack of devotion to duty and by acting in a manner unbecoming of a member of the Service and had thereby contravened rule 3(1) of the Conduct Rules of 1968. The substratum of the charge as mentioned above was that the applicant while functioning as CMD of DSCFDCL had, with ulterior motive, on 17.1.1992, 31.3.1992 and 10.5.1992 ordered investment of Rs.11 crores, Rs.1.50 crores and Rs.3.75 crores respectively with Syndicate Bank under PMS ignoring the higher offer of State Bank of India. It was further stated in the chargesheet that the Corporation eventually earned interest of 14% per annum only on the aforesaid investments as against the indicative rate of 16.25% offered by Syndicate Bank. The article of charge annexed with memorandum dated 23.8.1999 reads as follows: 5.	Pursuant to notice issued by this Tribunal, the respondents have entered appearance and by filing their counter reply contested the cause of the applicant. After giving brief facts of the case culminating into the impugned order, it has inter alia been pleaded that short term investment as defined by RBI is for a period of less than one year, and since the applicant had invested for one year, it would fall under the category long term, and, therefore, he exceeded his powers as per extant delegation, and the enquiry officer accordingly held the charge as partly proved to the extent that the applicant had exceeded his powers by investing in Syndicate Bank for a period of one year. The report of the enquiry officer, it is pleaded, was examined by the disciplinary authority and it was tentatively decided to disagree with the findings of the enquiry officer to the effect that the ingredient of the charge that the applicant made the said investment with Syndicate Bank after ignoring the higher offer made by State Bank of India was not established, on the following grounds: 6.	Shri C. Harishanker, learned senior counsel representing the applicant, vehemently contends that the entire disciplinary proceedings commencing with the memo dated 23.8.1999 culminating into orders of punishment are travesty of justice, and the policy decision taken by the applicant as CMD in the best interest of the organisation could not be styled as misconduct or a conduct unbecoming of an officer, and that it is not the case of the respondents that the applicant invested the money for a year with fluctuating interest with ulterior motive, and once, ulterior motive stood ruled out, the decision of the applicant could not be made subject matter of disciplinary proceedings, and further that if such acts done by a government servant in the discharge of his duties are converted into charges, no administrator would ever be able to take a decision for fear of being mulcted with disciplinary proceedings. It is further urged by the learned counsel that investment made by the applicant for one year with Syndicate Bank was not in excess of his authority, and he had pointed towards evidence which would clearly demonstrate that he was authorised to make such investment, and that even the predecessor of the applicant had made such investment, and further that the investments made by him were ratified by the board of directors and also the Delhi Administration. He further contends that the finding recorded by the disciplinary authority that the offer of SBI was better than the one offered by Syndicate Bank is contrary to the evidence on record. Ms. Jyoti Singh, learned counsel representing the respondents, would, however, contend that the issues raised by the applicant have been thoroughly examined in the departmental proceedings and rightly rejected, and that there is no occasion for reversing the findings of fact recorded by the disciplinary authority as that would not be within the scope of judicial review by this Tribunal. 7.	We have heard the learned counsel representing the parties and with their assistance examined the records of the case. Before we may evaluate, comment upon and determine the issues involved in the case in the light of submissions made by the learned counsel representing the parties, it would be appropriate to refer to rule 3 of the All India Services (Conduct) Rules, 1968. The same reads as follows: 8.	Having given our anxious thoughts, we have come to a firm conclusion that there is distinction between misconduct and not performing the duties as efficiently as another person similarly situate may be able to perform. Misconduct has to have some element of delinquency, may be, even gross negligence. It is only when the allegations subject matter of charge may tantamount to misconduct that a person can be proceeded for inflicting any of the punishments prescribed in the rules. Non-performance of duties, which may have no element of unlawful behaviour, wilful in character, improper or wrong behaviour, misdemeanor, misdeed, impropriety or a forbidden act, may some time amount to not carrying out the duties efficiently, but the same cannot be construed to be misconduct. If decisions that may ultimately prove to be less beneficial to an organisation for which a person is working are to be termed as misconduct liable for punishment under rules, no person discharging his duties would be able to take any major decision. The administrative work, if may not come to a grinding halt, would, in any case, slow down so much that it may cause more harm and loss to the concerned institution. From our experience from several hundred cases that we have dealt, we find that a negative and indecisive attitude is developing amongst the government officers, primarily for the reason that any decision taken which may be even in good faith, or favourably interpreting rules benefiting even a deserving government employee, may not become subject matter of disciplinary action against them. Surely, if government servants are to be tried departmentally for bona fide actions taken by them in discharge of their official duties, which may have absolutely no undertones or overtones of delinquency, the situation as prevails today is bound to aggravate. 9.	In the context of our observations as made above, the question that arises for determination is as to whether assuming that the applicant as CMD of DSCFDCL invested money on fluctuating rate of interest instead of fixed rate, by which the yield ultimately became lesser, and further that he deposited the amount for a year and not less than a year, did he commit any misconduct? In our considered view, even if both the allegations, as mentioned above, were to be held proved, it was not a case of misconduct at all. At the most it would be a case of some inefficiency, for which there are adequate measures to be adopted. Such acts that the applicant is said to have committed may, in other words, at the most, result into recording of some remarks as may be deemed appropriate in his ACRs, but the same, in any case, cannot be made subject matter of an enquiry and punishment  major or minor. The approach of the respondents appears to be vitiated in wrongly thinking and concluding that by depositing the amount for a year and for fluctuating rate of interest the applicant indulged in misconduct. The explanation furnished by the applicant apart, we are of the considered view that the applicant for alleged acts done by him, ought not to have been proceeded departmentally. 10.	The Honble Supreme Court in Union of India & Others v J.Ahmed [(1979) 2 SCC 286] held that deficiencies in personal character or personal ability would not constitute misconduct for taking disciplinary proceedings. It was further held that negligence in performance of duty or inefficiency in discharge of duty are not acts of commission or omission under rule 4 of the Discipline and Appeal Rules. The facts of the case aforesaid reveal that the respondent, an IAS officer, was posted as Deputy Commissioner and District Magistrate in Nowgong District, Assam, when in June 1960 there were large scale disturbances leading to considerable damage to property. He was suspended after preliminary enquiry and the following charges came to be framed against him: Thus you proved yourself completely unfit to hold any responsible position.

While commenting upon the charges as framed against the respondent, it was observed that the same related to his efficiency as an officer, and besides negligence the charges referred to lack of qualities of leadership, foresight, firmness and indecisiveness, but competence for the post, capability to hold the same, efficiency requisite for a post, ability to discharge functions attached to the post, are things different from some act or omission of the holder of the post which may be styled as misconduct so as to incur the penalty under rules. It is relevant to mention that the Honble Supreme Court was dealing with rule 4 of the Discipline and Appeal Rules which were to be understood in the context of All India Services (Conduct) Rules, 1954. Rule 3 of the Rules of 1954 required maintenance of, at all times, absolute integrity and devotion to duty. It was held that lack of integrity, if proved, would undoubtedly entail penalty, and failure to come up to the highest expectations of an officer holding a responsible post or lack of aptitude or qualities of leadership would not constitute as failure to maintain devotion to duty, and that the expression devotion to duty, had been used as something opposed to indifference to duty or easy-going or light-hearted approach to duty. An act or omission which runs counter to the expected code of conduct was also held to constitute misconduct. In a recent decision in the matter of Inspector Prem Chand v Government of NCT of Delhi & Others [(2007) 4 SCC 566], after discussing the case law it has been held that error of judgment or negligence simpliciter would not be misconduct. 11.	Coming now to the explanation furnished by the applicant, while defending the charge framed against him, it may be recalled, that the applicant had throughout been stating, and this fact is not disputed as well, that he had an offer of 16.25% of interest from Syndicate Bank, whereas the offer of SBI was 16%. He preferred to deposit the money with Syndicate Bank from where he was to get higher rate of interest. The charge against the applicant that 16% interest offered by SBI would have amounted to 18.5% has not been accepted. In fact, the disciplinary authority itself mentions that the same is confusing. There is no material whatsoever on record to show as to by what mathematical calculations 16% interest would become 18.5%. That being so, all that could be proved against the applicant was that he chose to deposit money for a higher yield which was speculative, and not a lesser rate of interest at the rate of 16% which was for a fixed period. This, in our considered view, can, at the most, be only an error of judgment. It is the case of the applicant that as per prevailing market situation he was right in securing a higher yield, even though unfortunately, it came out to be only 14%. In the matter of making fixed deposits, it is always the view of an individual based upon his reading of the market that he may prefer a fluctuating interest, whereas another person equally situate may go for a fixed rate. If in ultimate analysis the judgment of the one may prove more beneficial, the one who had taken a decision which resulted into lesser yield cannot be said to have indulged in misconduct. Insofar as, the charge with regard to depositing the amount for a lesser period than a year is concerned, no authority appears to have even noted the defence of the applicant. It may be recalled that the applicant has been pleading before the concerned authorities and has also brought to our notice that he had jurisdiction for making the investment, and the two prosecution witnesses examined as SW-1 and SW-2 had admitted that he was empowered to do so. He also urged that his predecessor too had made investment of one year with Indian Bank, which fact was also proved by admission of the witnesses. He also pleaded and proved that the board of directors had been informed of his decision at the earliest and it was ratified also. The decision taken by him was accepted by the Delhi Administration as well. At no given time, the instructions of the RBI that short term deposit would mean less than a year, were ever brought to the notice of the applicant. The mere fact that the applicant was not in the knowledge that as per circulars of RBI short term would mean less than a year, would not mean that for that reason only he had misconducted himself. That apart, this was not even an allegation against the applicant that because of deposit of the amount for a year with syndicate Bank, the Corporation suffered any financial loss. 12.	Looked from any angle, we are of the view that it is a case of wholly unjustified enquiry against the applicant. We have no hesitation whatsoever in terming the same to be an outcome of total non-application of mind resulting into wholly unnecessary predicament of the applicant spanned over a period of almost a decade. 13.	Resultantly, we allow this application and set aside the very charge memo dated 23.8.1999 as also the order dated 22.8.2006 passed by the disciplinary authority. The applicant in his ordeal lasting almost a decade must have suffered a great deal. Tension apart, his reputation must have been lowered in the eyes of his colleagues and public, which is an irreparable loss to any government servant. We are of the firm view that this Application needs to be allowed with costs which we quantify at Rupees ten thousand.