Mr. Debmalya Ghosal, Adv. Mr. Sourath Nath Dutta, Adv. Ms. Abhipiya Sarkar, Adv. 1. The appeal is in assailment of judgment and order dated August

11, 2014 passed in GA No. 2705 of 2013 arising out of PLA No. 292 of

2012. 2. By the impugned judgment and order, the learned Single Judge

revoked the probate granted on January 7, 2013 in respect of the last

will of late Jibendra Nath Biswas by an order passed in PLA 292 of

2012. It was held in the impugned judgment and order that the

respondent No. 1 herein had sufficient caveatable interest under Section 283 (1)(c) of the Indian Succession Act and directed issuance of

special citation upon respondent No. 1 to enable her to contest the

probate proceeding. 3. It was contended by learned Senior Advocate for the appellant

that learned Single Judge erred in holding that the probate granted in

common form was liable to be revoked and ordered revoking of the

probate granted dated January 7, 2013 in PLA 292 of 2012. Learned

Single Judge was not justified in directing special citation upon

respondent No.1 in order to give her an opportunity to contest the

probate proceeding. 4. Learned Senior Advocate for the appellant further submits that

the learned Single Judge erred in holding that the appellant practiced

fraud and misrepresentation in obtaining probate of the Will of late

Jibendra Nath Biswas. The respondent No.1 was in possession of the

demised property on the strength of an agreement to assign and

construction coupled with a power of attorney in this regard. She

constructed a four storied building on the suit property on the basis of

such agreements and power of attorney. It is contended that the 3 learned Single Judge committed error in holding that respondent No.1

had sufficient interest in the suit properties to contest the probate

proceeding merely on the ground that she had entered into an

agreement of assignment and development. 5. Learned Senior Advocate for the appellant also submitted that the

conduct of respondent No.1 was not that of a purchaser from heirs of

the deceased testator, nevertheless, the learned Single Judge held her

position in respect of the demised property as that of a purchaser.

Learned Single Judge erred in holding that the connotation any person

having slightest of interest in the estate of a testator does not include a

tenant or any person holding a property under agreement. It was also

contended that the learned Single Judge could not have acted as a

court to decide title in a probate proceeding. Respondent No.1 did not

purchase the properties at Salt Lake from the heirs of the deceased

testator and as such, her interest in such property was wrongly held to

be sufficient for assailing a probate. The rights of a tenant or assignee

are quite distinguishable with that of a purchaser. 6. Learned Senior Advocate for the appellant also argued that

although, a probate court had the jurisdiction to revoke a probate suo

motu, but learned Single Judge erred in directing issuance of special

citation upon the respondent No.1. Findings of the learned Single Judge

as to fraud allegedly practiced by the appellants were unfounded and 4 without any basis. It was urged that the impugned judgment and order

is liable to be set aside. 7. During the continuance of the instant proceeding, the sole

executor of the Will of late Jibendra Nath Biswas i.e appellant No. 2

expired. It was contended by learned Senior Advocate for the appellant

that on the expiry of the sole executor, respondent No.2 is entitled to

continue with the probate proceeding and a letter of administration may

be issued in terms of the provisions of Section 232 of the Indian

Succession Act, 1925. In support of his contention, learned Senior

Advocate for the appellant relied upon a decision of Delhi High Court

reported in 2024 SCC OnLine Del 2204 ( Digvijai Singh and Another

Vs. State and Others ) and that of Madras High Court reported in All

India Reporter 1975 Mad 194 ( Soundaraja Peter and Ors. Vs.

Florance Chellaih and Ors. ). 8. Learned Senior Advocate for the appellant also submitted that on

the death of sole executor, the probate proceeding does not abate. It

should be converted into one for grant of letter of administration and

proceeded with. On such proposition, learned Senior Advocate for the

appellant relied upon (2016) 13 Supreme Court Cases 253 (Vatsala

Srinivasan Vs. Shyamal Taghunathan). 9. Per contra, learned Senior Advocate for the respondent contended

that the legal heirs of late Jibendra Nath Biswas represented before her

as well as authorities that their predecessors died intestate. Relying 5 upon such representation, the respondent invested huge amount of

money for the development of the demised property by constructing a

four storied building thereon. As such, respondent No.1 acquired

caveatable rights in such property. She having an interest in the

property under dispute, had the right to contest the probate proceeding. 10. Learned Senior Advocate for the respondent further submitted

that probate to the Will of late Jibendra Nath Biswas was applied by the

appellants after a delay of 10/12 years from the death of Jibendra Nath

Biswas. Not only that, the legal heirs of the testator consented to the

grant of probate to such will after so many years and that too, after they

had made declarations before the authorities, after the death of

testator, that their predecessor died intestate and got the demised

property mutated in their name on the basis of such declaration, as

legal heirs of Jibendra Nath Biswas. According to learned Senior

Advocate for the respondent, the legal heirs could not have declared

that their predecessor died intestate, had they been aware of a Will

executed by their predecessor late Jibendra Nath Biswas. They could

not have consented to grant of probate to the will of late Jibendra Nath

Biswas after declaring that the deceased testator died without leaving a

Will. On such grounds, it was argued on behalf of the respondent that

the legal heirs of deceased testator practiced fraud before the learned

probate court. 11. Relying upon the authorities reported in (2000) 9 Supreme Court

Cases 714 (Shambhu Prasad Agarwal and Others Vs. Bholaram

Agarwal) and 1949 SCC OnLine Cal 368 (Mahatma Missir Vs.

Thakur Prasad Chaudhuri), learned Senior Advocate for the

respondent submitted that on the death of sole executor, the probate

proceeding cannot continue unless necessary amendments are made in

the application seeking grant of letter of administration. 12. One Jibendra Nath Biswas was holding lease granted by the

government of West Bengal on March 30, 1997 in respect of land

comprising 6. 3522 Cottas appertaining to plot No. 7 in block BA, sector

1, for a period of 999 years. The said late Jibendra Nath Biswas died on

November 5, 1991 being survived by his widow, Kuhu Biswas and two

sons Dipta and Soumya as his legal heirs. The aforesaid legal heirs of

late Jibendra Nath Biswas proposed to apply before the Urban

Development Department, government of West Bengal for recording

their names as joint lessees in respect of the properties under reference.

For such reason, the widow of late Jibendra Nath Biswas affirmed an

affidavit before the Notary Public Calcutta on May 14, 1996, where she

declared that Jibendra Nath Biswas had died intestate and that she

and her two sons aged 25 years and 20 years respectively were his only

legal heirs. Similarly the two sons of late Jibendra Nath Biswas also

affirmed separate affidavits stating interalia that each of the three legal

heirs were entitled to one third share in the property. The two sons also 7 declared, in the affidavit, that they were unmarried and residing with

their mother. 13. Consequently, on November 18, 1999 Bidhannagar Municipality,

made a communication informing the widow and two sons of late

Jibendra Nath Biswas that their names were mutated in the records in

place of late Jibendra Nath Biswas with effect from October 4, 1996 in

respect of the demised properties. In such fashion, the name of the

widow and the two sons of late Jibendra Nath Biswas were recorded as

joint lessees in respect of the demised property in the records of the

municipality. 14. On April 26, 1999, the three legal heirs of late Jibendra Nath

Biswas gave possession of the property in question to respondent No. 6,

a company incorporated under the provisions of the Companies Act,

1956 . Such action was performed by the legal heirs of late Jibendra

Nath Biswas as joint lessees of the property. An agreement of tenancy

was executed by and between the legal heirs of late Jibendra Nath

Biswas on one hand and respondent No. 6 on the other on April 26,

1999 in lieu of sum of ₹30,00,000/-. A general power of attorney was

executed by the three legal heirs in favour of the managing director of

respondent No. 6. The legal heirs of late Jibendra Nath Biswas also

executed affidavit and an agreement to assign the lease in favour of

respondent No. 6. In such documents also the legal heirs of late

Jibendra Nath Biswas declared and represented that late Jibendra Nath 8 Biswas died intestate. The aforesaid agreement and letter of assignment

of lease were however, cancelled by and between the two parties, by

dint of a deed of surrender, cancellation and revocation dated June 2,

2003, cancelling the deed of assignment of lease dated April 26, 1999.

The three legal heirs of late Jibendra Nath Biswas and the Managing

Director of the respondent No. 6 signed on the deed of such surrender,

cancellation and revocation. 15. On the selfsame day i.e. June 2, 2003, a fresh agreement was

entered into between the three legal heirs of late Jibendra Nath Biswas,

on one hand and respondent No.1 on the other, respondent No. 6 being

a confirming party to such agreement of tenancy. In such agreement,

respondent No. 6 gave out that they were not willing to continue with

the tenancy in view of the conditions of lease which prohibited a sub-

lease without prior permission from the government. A notification

issued by the Government of West Bengal dated September 4, 1985

however, authorizes sub-letting for residential purposes. Under the

agreement executed between the parties whereby, respondent No.1 paid

a sum of ₹70,00,000/- for such tenancy. Such agreement authorized

respondent No. 1 to demolish the existing structure and construct a

new building over the demised property. Legal heirs of late Jibendra

Nath Biswas also executed two other agreements on June 2, 2003, one

for the assignment of their leasehold interest and another permitting

the respondent No.1 to raise new construction on the property in 9 question. They also executed a power of attorney on June 2, 2003 itself.

Consequently, Respondent No.1 was put in possession of the property

in dispute. 16. In terms of the agreement and power of attorney so granted,

respondent No.1 took possession of the demised property, raised a four

storied structure thereon upon demolition of the existing structure. The

said respondent invested huge amount of money for the construction of

four storied structure over the property in question. In addition,

respondent No.1 also engaged a security agency to provide security to

the property on and from February 8, 2012. Accordingly, two security

guards namely Kanailal Das and Sukumar Dhara were employed. 17. Subsequently, in 2013, appellant No.1 filed a Civil Suit being Title

Suit No. 204 of 2013 with an application under Order 39 of the Code of

Civil Procedure against one of the security guards namely Kanailal Das

and obtained an order of 'status quo' on July 10, 2013. According to the

averments made in such Civil Suit, appellant No.1 claimed himself to be

legatee of an alleged will dated November 4, 1991 executed by late

Jibendra Nath Biswas whereas he died on the very next day i.e. on

November 5, 1991. 18. In 2012, appellant No. 2 filed a proceeding for grant of probate of

the Will of late Jibendra Nath Biswas, as executor, being registered as

PLA 292 of 2012. In such application for probate, appellant No.1 filed

an undertaking before this Court declaring that apart from the natural 10 heirs of the deceased, there was no other person who had any interest

in the grant of probate to such Will of late Jibendra Nath Biswas. The

legal heirs of late Jibendra Nath Biswas connoted their consent to the

grant of probate to such Will. Owing to the consent given by the legal

heirs of late Jibendra Nath Biswas, the necessity of issuance of citation

was not felt and probate to such will was granted in common form by

this Court on January 7, 2013. 19. While passing the impugned judgment and order, the learned

Single Judge took into consideration that since the legal heirs of late

Jibendra Nath Biswas consented to the grant of probate to the Will and

testament of the testator, special citation was not issued in the probate

proceeding. Probate was granted on the basis of citation in common

form. The learned Single Judge also raised doubts over the genuineness

of the will in question on several counts. Will was allegedly executed by

the testator just one day prior to his death whereas; probate to such

Will was sought long after 21 years of its execution. Not only that, the

respondent legal heirs of the testator, after his death, applied for

mutation of the leasehold property in their name as such legal heirs. In

doing so, they executed several documents and affidavits where they

declared that the testator died intestate without leaving a Will.

Nevertheless, the aforesaid legal heirs consented to the grant of probate

to such Will. 20. Learned Single Judge, while revoking the probate, also noted the

terms of such Will. It was specifically noted that the alleged will

executed just a day prior to the death of the testator, was executed in

favour of a complete stranger to his family having no provision for the

natural legal heirs. Although, it was alleged in the Will that sufficient

properties were left for such natural legal heirs but the affidavit of

assets affirmed in support of the probate showed that the testator had

no property, household article or money at his disposal. Learned Single

Judge also doubted the veracity of the will in question on the ground of

inordinate delay of over 21 years in approaching the court for grant of

probate. 21. Genuineness or otherwise of the alleged Will left by late Jibendra

Nath Biswas are the questions to be looked into by the probate court. In

the present appeal, the question which has fallen for our consideration

is whether, impugned judgment and order, revoking the probate

granted to the alleged Will of late Jibendra Nath Biswas on the ground

of non-issuance of special citation upon respondent No. 1 is justified or

not. We are also obliged to consider if respondent No. 1 had any

caveatable interest in the property involved in the will and consequent

probate proceeding, entitling her a special citation in the probate

proceeding. 22. We have noted hereinabove that late Jibendra Nath Biswas was a

lessee for 999 years in respect of the property involved in probate 12 proceeding. On his death, the respondent legal heirs of the deceased

late Jibendra Nath Biswas applied for getting the property mutated in

their name according to their shares. At the time of such application, all

the three natural legal heirs of late Jibendra Nath Biswas sworn

affidavits that their predecessor died intestate, leaving no Will or

testament. Accordingly, the name of the three legal heirs was mutated

in respect of the demised property in the records of municipality. 23. As legal heirs of intestate deceased, the respondent legal heirs of

late Jibendra Nath Biswas assigned the leasehold interest in the

property in favour of respondent No.6 on April 26, 1999. However such

assignment was cancelled on June 2, 2003 on certain grounds. A fresh

assignment was made on June 2, 2003 itself by the respondent legal

heirs of late Jibendra Nath Biswas in favour of respondent No.1. By

such assignment, respondent No.1 was inducted as a tenant in the

demised property. The agreement dated June 2, 2003 provided for

delivery of exclusive possession of the demised property to respondent

No.1 coupled with permission to reconstruct a new structure upon

demolition of the existing structure. 24. In such transaction, the legal heirs of late Jibendra Nath Biswas

represented themselves to legal heirs of an intestate deceased and

induced respondent No.1 to enter into an agreement with legal heirs of

late Jibendra Nath Biswas who died intestate. On such representation,

respondent No.1 came in exclusive possession of the property and 13 invested huge amount of money to the tune of ₹70,00,000/-, towards

the construction of a four storied structure thereon upon demolition of

the existing one. To our consideration, respondent No.1 acquired

sufficient interest in the property covered under the probate and that

too, upon the representation of the respondent legal heirs of late

Jibendra Nath Biswas. 25. Section 263 of the Indian Succession Act, 1925 deals with the

provisions for revocation of a probate granted to a Will. The Section

reads as follows: 26. In Soundaraja Peter (supra), the Madras High Court held to the

following: (Emphasis supplied) 23. In the case of Digvijai Singh (supra), the Delhi High Court

observed that, 16 "21. It was reiterated in Smt. Vatsala Srinivasan Ig (supra)
 that in any of these situations as provided under Section 232 of the Act, the universal or the residuary legatee may be
 admitted to prove the Will and the Letter of Administration
 with the Will annexed may be granted to him for the whole of
 estate or such part of the estate as remains to be
 administered. It was also observed that the right of
 beneficiary to seek Letter of Administration continues to
 survive notwithstanding the death of the Testator." 24. Similarly in the case of Vatsal Srinivasan (supra), where prayer

for amendment of the plaint of the probate proceeding, on the death of

executor, was allowed by learned Single Judge and affirmed in appeal,

the Hon'ble Supreme Court laid down that,

 "6. In view of law laid down in the aforestated judgments, the
 Division Bench observed that both the proceedings with
 regard to the probate and the letter of administration are of
 the same nature and therefore, the proceedings cannot abate.
 The essence of both the proceedings is the same and they
 relate to ascertainment of genuineness and authenticity of the
 will. By considering the aforestated judgments, the Division
 Bench has rightly confirmed the view expressed by the
 learned Single Judge." 25. This High Court in Mahatma Missir (supra) had noted to the

following, that's to say: 26. In Shambhu Prasad Agarwal (supra) the Hon'ble Supreme

Court had laid down that,

 "5. We find that it is not disputed that Matadin Agarwal was
 a legatee under the will. It is true that Matadin Agarwal ought
 to have applied for issue of letters of administration and not
 for probate. However, this did not debar his heirs to get the
 probate petition amended. The trial court rejected both the
 applications of the appellants on the ground that since the
 probate petition filed by the legatee related to his personal
 right, therefore no right accrued to the appellants for their
 substitution in his place. This view, according to us, is not
 correct. Matadin Agarwal, as stated above, was a legatee and
 not an executor under the will. It is true that where an 18 executor dies, his heirs cannot be substituted because the
 executor possessed personal right, but this is not applicable
 where the heirs of a legatee apply for issue of letters of
 administration. It is not disputed that today the appellants
 can file a petition for issue of letter of administration. Since
 considerable time has elapsed, we feel that the interest of
 justice demands that the proceedings should come to an end
 as early as possible and we should not dismiss this appeal
 merely on highly technical ground. 6. For the aforesaid reason, we set aside the orders under
 challenge and send the case back to the trial court. We permit
 the appellants to be substituted in the proceedings and also
 permit them to amend the petition. It goes without saying that
 after the remand, it will be open to the parties to take such
 plea as may be available to them under the law. Since the
 matter is pending for a considerable time, we direct the lower
 court to decide the matter expeditiously. The appeal is
 allowed. There shall be no order as to costs." 27. Considering the law laid down by different High Courts as well

as the Hon'ble Supreme Court, we are of the view that the law laid

down by Hon'ble Supreme Court in its latest of decisions in Vatsala

Srinivasan (supra) and Digvijai Singh (supra) shall govern the field

on the point of maintainability of the proceeding. 28. The case at hand apparently seems to be identical to the

situation enunciated in illustration (ii) appended to Section 263 of the

Act of 1925. The impugned judgment and order held that respondent

No.1 had sufficient caveatable interest in the property under reference

and as such she was entitled to a special citation in the probate 19 proceeding concerning such property. It directed citation to be issued

upon her in order to give her opportunity to contest the probate

proceeding. It is on this pretext, the probate granted to the Will dated

November 4, 1991 executed by late Jibendra Nath Biswas in PLA No.

292 of 2012 was revoked. We find no infirmity with the findings

returned by learned Single Judge in the impugned judgment and

order. 29. Therefore, on the basis of discussions made hereinbefore we find

no merit in the instant appeal. We affirm the impugned judgment and

order. 30. Consequently, the appeal being APO 335 of 2014 along with

connected applications are accordingly disposed of without any order

as to costs. 31. Urgent photostat certified copy of this judgment, if applied

for, be supplied to the parties on priority basis upon compliance of all

formalities. [MD. SHABBAR RASHIDI, J.] 32. I agree. [DEBANGSU BASAK, J.]