1. Rule. Learned Additional Public Prosecutor Mr. Pranav
Trivedi waives service of notice of rule on behalf of respondent
No.1 - State, whereas learned advocate Mr. Pratik Jasani waives
service of notice of rule on behalf of respondent No.2 - original
complainant. R/CR.MA/4390/2017 JUDGMENT DATED: 17/11/2021 2. The petitioner - original accused is before this Court
invoking the provisions of Section 482 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973 (hereinafter referred to as "Cr. P. C."), praying to
quash and set aside the First Information Report being C. R. No. I -
30 of 2017 registered with Mahila Police Station, Rajkot City for
the offence punishable under Sections 376 , 406 , 323 and 506 of the
Indian Penal Code, 1860. 3. It is the case of the petitioner that he had friendly
relation with the complainant and they had cohabitated several
times. The complainant is a married woman aged about 37 years. It
is the case of the petitioner that the offence under Section 376 of
the Indian Penal Code has not been made against him since the
complainant had consented for establishing physical relation with
the petitioner. 4. Learned advocate Mr. Virat Popat, referring to the facts
stated in the FIR, submits that the details given in the FIR itself
suggest that the complainant and the petitioner were in consensual
relationship and because of internal disputes, the FIR has been
lodged with an intention to threaten and blackmail the petitioner.
Learned advocate Mr. Popat further submits that even after filing
of FIR, the petitioner helped the complainant in bailing her out in
connection with the FIR lodged on 14.02.2017 for offence under Sections 506(2) , 504 and 114 of the Indian Penal Code. It is
submitted that the complainant was also arraigned as an accused
in connection with an FIR being C. R. No. 11208050211981 of 2021
and was arrested and sent to the judicial custody for the offence
under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of
Atrocities) Act, 1989. Learned advocate Mr. Popat has also referred
to the photographs prior to the FIR, to submit that the complainant
and the petitioner were in cordial relationship and had been
together on different occasions. Learned advocate Mr. Popat Page 2 of 13 Downloaded on : Wed Jan 12 01:36:15 IST 2022 R/CR.MA/4390/2017 JUDGMENT DATED: 17/11/2021

further states that the photographs post FIR too suggest that both
of them had continued their relationship. 5. Countering the arguments, learned advocate Mr. Pratik
Jasani submits that the facts in the FIR detail the manner in which
the petitioner had exploited the complainant - victim. Learned
advocate Mr. Jasani submits that the petitioner by giving false
promise to marry, established physical relationship with the
complainant. Learned advocate Mr. Jasani further submits that by
threatening the complainant he would beat her and her children,
and would forcibly enter into physical relationship. Learned
advocate Mr. Jasani submits that the petitioner established
friendship with the husband of the complainant and led him to
consume liquor and non-vegetarian food on different occasions.
Learned advocate Mr. Jasani also submits that the petitioner also
threatened the complainant by controlling her husband and thus,
the entire management of the house was under the control of the
petitioner. Further, according to learned advocate Mr. Jasani, some
loans were taken in the name of the complainant and the
complainant has alleged that the petitioner had not even paid
loans' installments. It is submitted that after the husband of the
complainant faced paralytic attack and was bed-ridden, during that
time too, the petitioner would forcibly engage in relation with the
complainant. After the death of the husband on 02.01.2015, when
the complainant proposed for marriage, the petitioner refused and
gradually decreased the relationship, ultimately, the complainant
was constrained to file the FIR. 6. Learned advocate Mr. Popat relies upon the decision in
case of Kaini Rajan vs. State of Kerala reported in (2013) 9
SCC 113. In reply to the decision cited by learned advocate
Mr. Popat, learned advocate Mr. Jasani submits that the case of the
complainant falls under Section 114-A of the Indian Evidence Act,
1872 and submits that there is presumption of absence of consent. R/CR.MA/4390/2017 JUDGMENT DATED: 17/11/2021 7. Hon'ble Apex Court in case of Kaini Rajan (supra) has
elaborated on the expression "without her consent" as well as
consent given by a woman believing the man's promise to marry
her. It has been observed thus :- 8. Here in this case on hand, the complainant was a
married woman and the petitioner - accused was in relation with
her while her husband was alive. She has stated that her husband
and the petitioner were friend and the petitioner was constantly Page 4 of 13 Downloaded on : Wed Jan 12 01:36:15 IST 2022 R/CR.MA/4390/2017 JUDGMENT DATED: 17/11/2021

visiting her house. She had also travelled with the petitioner at
different places. The fact in the FIR itself suggests that the
petitioner and the complainant were in cordial relationship. The
complainant has alleged that the petitioner had given a false
promise to marry and under such false promise, had established
physical relationship and had continued with sexual acts. It has to
be noted that the complainant while she was in relationship with
the petitioner, was a married woman and the petitioner used to
visit her house in presence of her husband. The facts in the FIR
suggest that there is no fraud committed and the relation was open
and consensual. Even the children of the complainant appear to
have known of the relationship of the petitioner with the
complainant. 9. In case of Deepak Gulati vs. State of Haryana reported in (2013) 7 SCC 675, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has
dealt with the expression "consent" and the distinction has been
drawn for mere breach of promise and not fulfilling the false
promise. The observations in paragraph 21 of the said decision are
quoted hereinafter :- 10. Here, in this case, the fact shows that the complainant
is a married woman aged about 37 years. The husband of the
complainant and the present petitioner were driver by profession
and so, the petitioner used to visit the house of the complainant
and had developed acquaintance which, as stated in the FIR,
resulted into deep relationship of the petitioner with the
complainant. The complainant has stated that the petitioner
continued in relationship even after the death of her husband. She
has made the complaint on the ground that she was forced to enter
into the relationship and the petitioner denied marriage with her.
The facts in the FIR itself show the conduct of the complainant
which demonstrates voluntary consent. The complainant had
unequivocally entered into voluntary agreement with the petitioner
to enter into the sexual acts. There would not be any intention of
the petitioner nor of the complainant to establish relationship for
marriage since both were married persons. She had entered into
relationship by intimacy with the petitioner when her husband was
alive. So, there would not be any case of promise to marry. 11. Learned advocate Mr. Jasani refers to the decision in
case of Anurag Soni vs. State of Chhattisgarh reported in
(2019) 13 SCC 1 to submit that the relation between the parties
would be constituted as rape, consent was under promise to marry
her and has relied on the observations of the Hon'ble Apex Court in
paragraphs 16, 17, 18 and 19 which read as under :- 12. Learned advocate Mr. Popat to counter the arguments
of learned advocate Mr. Jasani refers to the decision in Pramod
Suryabhan Pawar vs. State of Maharashtra and anr. reported
in (2019) 9 SCC 608, in which Hon'ble Apex Court considered
the case under the provisions of Section 482 of Cr. P. C and
quashed the FIR. The Hon'ble Court while referring to the case in Anurag Soni (supra), in paragraph 14 held as under :- alleged by the complainant is the appellant's promise to
 marry her. Specifically in the context of a promise to marry,
 this Court has observed that there is a distinction between a
 false promise given on the understanding by the maker that
 it will be broken, and the breach of a promise which is made
 in good faith but subsequently not fulfilled. In Anurag Soni v
 State of Chhattisgarh9 , this Court held: Similar observations were made by this Court in Deepak
 Gulati v State of Haryana10 ("Deepak Gulati"): 13. Learned advocate Mr. Jasani also refers to the decision
in case of XYZ vs. State of Gujarat reported in (2019) 10 SCC
337 to contend that though the High Court has inherent powers
under Section 482 of the Cr. P. C to quash the FIR, the same is to
be exercised very sparingly and states that the complainant should
be given an opportunity to lead the evidence during trial so she can
have the recourse of protection of law under Section 114-A of the
Evidence Act read with Section 90 of IPC. In the said decision , the
Hon'ble Apex Court has observed that in view of serious allegations
made in the complaint, the High Court should not have made a
roving inquiry while considering the application filed under Section
482 of Cr. P. C. But, at the same time, the Apex Court has laid
down that the powers under Section 482 of Cr. P. C. is to be
exercised depending on contents of the complaint and the material
placed on record. The Apex Court while entertaining the provisions
of Section 114-A of the Evidence Act, has observed that where
sexual intercourse by the accused is proved and the question is
whether it was without the consent of the woman alleged to have
been raped, and such woman states in her evidence before the
Court that she did not consent, the court shall presume that she did
not consent. In Deelip Singh alias Dilip Kumar vs. State of
Bihar reported in (2005) 1 SCC 88, in paragraph 19, the higher
court expresses the position under Section 90 of IPC. Paragraph 19
is reproduced for ready reference :- 14. It is true that this Court should not make any roving
inquiry which considering the application filed under Section 482
of Cr. P. C., but such power under Section 482 of Cr. P. C. is
required to be exercised depending on the contents of the
complaint and material placed before the Court. Here, in this case,
the complaint coupled with the evidence on record suggest that the
relation was consensual and the facts of the case details out longer
period of relationship of the complainant with the petitioner, and
friendly terms of her husband with the petitioner. The complainant
has stated in the FIR about the petitioner administering the
requirements of the family. She had developed the relationship
during lifetime of her husband with the petitioner. 15. Learned advocate Mr. Popat also relies on the decision
in case of Sonu alias Subhash Kumar vs. State of Uttar
Pradesh and anr. reported in AIR 2021 SC 1405 in which,
Hon'ble Apex Court while dealing with the power under Section
482 of Cr. P. C. quashed the charge-sheet filed and also quashed
the order of the trial Court to take cognizance. The Apex Court
while observing the facts of the case and rival submissions, has
noted that in the FIR, it is recorded that the second respondent had
developed a friendship with the appellant and he had assured that
he would marry her. They developed a physical relationship which
spread over a period of one and half years, during the course the
second respondent conversed with the parents and sister of the
appellant. The parents of the appellant were agreeable to the Page 10 of 13 Downloaded on : Wed Jan 12 01:36:15 IST 2022 R/CR.MA/4390/2017 JUDGMENT DATED: 17/11/2021

couple getting marriage. The appellant called her to Jhansi stating
that she should come and visit him so that they can get married. On
traveling to Jhansi at the behest of the appellant, the second
respondent was informed by the father of the appellant that the
appellant did not wish to marry. The Apex Court referring to the
contents in the FIR as well as statement under Section 164 of the
Cr. P. C. observed in paragraph 8 as under :- 16. The case of Pramod Suryabhan Pawar vs State of
Maharashtra reported in (2019) 9 SCC 608 was referred to
narrate the observations :- R/CR.MA/4390/2017 JUDGMENT DATED: 17/11/2021

In paragraph 10, the Court has referred to the summary of legal
position as depicted in Pramod Suryabhan Pawar (supra),

 "10. Further, the Court has observed: arising out of a promise to marry, two propositions must be
 established. The promise of marriage must have been a false
 promise, given in bad faith and with no intention of being
 adhered to at the time it was given. The false promise itself
 must be of immediate relevance, or bear a direct nexus to the
 woman's decision to engage in the sexual act." 17. Thus, in Sonu alias Subhash Kumar (supra), the
Apex Court while dealing with the power under Section 482 of Cr.
P. C. for quashing the FIR, referring the legal position enunciated
in Pramod Suryabhan Pawar (supra) has laid down as under :- 18. Here, in the present case, the facts in the complaint
clearly suggest that the relationship of the complainant with the
petitioner was consensual in nature and was for longer time. The
complainant was married woman and established relationship with Page 12 of 13 Downloaded on : Wed Jan 12 01:36:15 IST 2022 R/CR.MA/4390/2017 JUDGMENT DATED: 17/11/2021

the petitioner during life time of her husband. The complainant
even along with her children had travelled with the petitioner to
various places. The facts suggest that the petitioner even was
running her house for providing basic necessities and it appears
that the relation continued even after the death of her husband and
she had proposed for marriage and the petitioner denied to marry.
The complainant was even aware of the fact that the petitioner is a
married man, when she started her relation with him. She had
established intimate relation with the friend of her husband. There
could not be any promise to marry when both of them were married
persons. The long term affair continued even after the death of the
husband of the complainant and subsequently, the petitioner
declined the proposal of marriage. The materials on record by way
of photographs and bail papers towards the FIR against the
complainant demonstrates that the petitioner continued to support
the complainant even after the FIR. 19. Considering the facts and circumstances of the present
case, while applying the principles of law as delineated in the case
authorities referred herein above, the petition is allowed by
exercising the jurisdiction under Section 482 of Cr. P. C. since the
offence is not made out. 20. In the result, the FIR being C. R. No. I - 30 of 2017
registered with Mahila Police Station, Rajkot for the offence
punishable under Sections 376 , 406 , 323 and 506 of the Indian
Penal Code, 1860 against the petitioner is quashed. Rule is made
absolute. (GITA GOPI,J)

cmk Page 13 of 13 Downloaded on : Wed Jan 12 01:36:15 IST 2022