1. Delays and difficulties in execution of decrees/awards erode public
confidence and trust in justice delivery system. Execution jurisdiction
deserves special attention and expeditious disposal considering that the
decree-holder has already succeeded in the litigation and holds a
decree/award in his favour. 2. In Satyawati v. Rajinder Singh , (2013) 9 SCC 491, the Supreme
Court quoted the Privy Council's judgment of 1872 that the „difficulties of a
litigant in India begin when he has obtained a decree‟ and observed that the
position has not improved and the decree-holders face the same problem.
The Supreme Court observed that if there is an unreasonable delay in
execution of a decree because, the decree-holder would be unable to enjoy
the fruits of his success and the entire effort of successful litigant would be
in vain. The relevant observations of the Supreme Court are reproduced as
under:- Bank of Upper India Ltd. [AIR 1925 Oudh 448 (PC)] the Court was
 constrained to observe that: (AIR p. 448)
 ―Courts in India have to be careful to see that the
 process of the Court and the law of procedure are not
 abused by judgment-debtors in such a way as to make
 courts of law instrumental in defrauding creditors, who
 have obtained decrees in accordance with their rights." 13. In spite of the aforestated observation made in 1925, this Court
 was again constrained to observe in Babu Lal v. Hazari Lal Kishori
 Lal [(1982) 1 SCC 525] in para 29 that: (SCC p. 539)
 ―29. Procedure is meant to advance the cause of justice
 and not to retard it. The difficulty of the decree-holder
 starts in getting possession in pursuance of the decree
 obtained by him. The judgment-debtor tries to thwart
 the execution by all possible objections." xxx xxx xxx 16. ......... the position has not been improved till today. We
 strongly feel that there should not be unreasonable delay in
 execution of a decree because if the decree-holder is unable to
 enjoy the fruits of his success by getting the decree executed, the
 entire effort of successful litigant would be in vain." (Emphasis Supplied) 3. Order XXI of the Code of Civil Procedure deals with the execution of
the decrees. Order XXI Rule 1(b) of the Code of Civil Procedure enables the
judgment debtor to directly pay the decretal amount to the decree-holder.
Order XXI Rule 1(a) of the Code of Civil Procedure gives the option to the
judgment debtor to deposit the decretal/award amount with the Executing
Court and give the notice of deposit to the decree-holder under Order XXI
Rule 1 (2) of the Code of Civil Procedure . Thus, in an ideal situation, the
judgment debtor is supposed to satisfy the decree/award without waiting for
the institution of an execution case. For example, the Insurance Companies
deposit the award amount with the Motor Accident Claims Tribunals in EX.P. 275/2012 & EX.P. 276/2012 Page 3 of 67 respect of awards passed in motor accident claims unless they chose to
challenge the award in appeal. 4. If the judgment debtor does not voluntarily satisfy the decree/award,
the decree-holder is compelled to initiate execution proceedings. If the
decree-holder is aware of the assets of the judgment debtor, the Court can
attach such assets at the very threshold of the execution proceedings. The
Executing Court shall, thereafter, initiate proceedings for sale of the attached
assets of the judgment debtor, if the judgement debtor does not satisfy the
decree/award. 5. If the decree-holder is not aware of the complete assets and income of
the judgment debtor, the Executing Court directs the judgment debtor to
disclose his assets in Form 16A, Appendix E under Order XXI Rule 41(2) of
the Code of Civil Procedure . 6. Form 16A, Appendix E under Order XXI Rule 41(2) of the Code of
Civil Procedure is not exhaustive to ascertain all the assets of the judgment
debtor. As a result, the execution proceedings keep on lingering at the mercy
of the judgment debtor. 7. In many countries namely United Kingdom, USA, Canada, Australia,
Singapore, Ireland, New Zealand and South Africa, the law prescribes a
comprehensive format of assets, income and expenditure to be filed by the
judgment debtor. 8. Justice is the ideal to be achieved by law. Justice is the goal of law.
‗Law as it is', may fall short of 'Law as it ought to be' for doing complete
justice in a cause. The gap between the two gives an occasion to the Court
to develop the law by evolving juristic principles for doing complete justice
according to the current needs of the Society. J.S. Verma, former CJI, in his EX.P. 275/2012 & EX.P. 276/2012 Page 4 of 67 lecture titled "New Dimensions of Justice", (1997) 3 SCC J-3 observed that:- 9. This Court is satisfied that there is an urgent need to formulate a
detailed format of assets, income and expenditure to be filed by the
judgment debtor at the very threshold of the execution proceedings to curb
the delay and expedite the execution proceedings. 10. Section 151 of the Code of Civil Procedure empowers this Court to
make such orders as may be necessary to secure ends of justice or to prevent
abuse of process of the Court in exercise of inherent powers. The power
under Section 151 of the Code of Civil Procedure is in its nature
extraordinary and is to be exercised „ex debito justitae‟ to do the real and
substantial justice for the administration for which Courts exist. Article 227 EX.P. 275/2012 & EX.P. 276/2012 Page 5 of 67 of the Constitution also confers on this Court the power of superintendence
over all subordinate courts in relation to which it exercises jurisdiction. The
paramount consideration behind vesting such wide power of
superintendence in this Court is to keep the path of justice clear of
obstructions which would impede it. It is the salutary duty of this Court to
prevent the abuse of the process, miscarriage of justice and to correct the
irregularities in the judicial process. 11. In exercise of powers under Section 151 and Order XXI Rule 41 of
the Code of Civil Procedure read with Section 106 and Section 165 of the
Indian Evidence Act and Article 227 of the Constitution of India, this Court
has formulated an affidavit of assets and income to be mandatorily filed by
the judgment debtor in execution cases. The format of assets and income in
respect of an individual judgment debtor is annexed hereto as Annexure-A. 12. After examining the aforesaid affidavit, the Court may direct the
judgment debtor to file an additional affidavit of expenditure in the format
annexed hereto as Annexure-C. 13. The format of assets and income in respect of a proprietorship firm/
partnership firm/Company/Trust as a judgment debtor is annexed hereto as
Annexure-B. 14. In case of a Company, if the Court finds sufficient ground for lifting
the corporate veil, then all the Directors of the judgment debtor company are
required to file their personal affidavits in the format of Annexure-A. 15. The aforesaid three affidavits, namely Annexure-A, B and C are
comprehensive and they would give a complete overview of the entire
assets, income, occupation, litigations, borrowings, lendings, expenditure as
well as standard of living of the judgment debtor. 16. After the filing of the above affidavits, the onus is on the decree-
holder to verify the disclosures of the judgment debtor, either himself or by
appointing an Investigator. 17. If the decree-holder finds that the judgment debtor has not correctly
disclosed all his assets, income and expenditure, then the decree-holder can
serve the interrogatories on the judgment debtor. 18. The Executing Court shall thereafter consider whether the personal
examination of the judgment debtor or any other person is necessary to elicit
the truth. If so, the Executing Court shall examine the judgment debtor or
any other person on oath in exercise of power under Order XXI Rule 41(1)
read with Section 165 of the Indian Evidence Act to elicit the truth and do
justice. Relevant Legal Provisions 19. Order XXI Rule 41(2) of Code of Civil Procedure - Judgment
debtor to disclose assets
Order XXI Rule 41(2) of the Code of Civil Procedure empowers the
Executing Court to direct the judgement debtor to disclose his assets on
affidavit in Form 16A, Appendix E to ascertain his assets/means to satisfy
the decree. Order XXI Rule 41(2) of the Code of Civil Procedure is
reproduced herein below:- 20. Form 16A of Appendix E of Code of Civil Procedure - Format of
affidavit of assets
Form 16A of Appendix E of the Code of Civil Procedure is the format of the
affidavit of assets to be filed by the judgment debtor which is reproduced
herein below:- 7. *(a) I own the house in which I live; its value is Rs...............
I pay as outgoings by way of rates, mortgage, interest, etc., the annual sum of
Rs............... (b) I pay as rent the annual sum of Rs................... 8. I possess the following:- 9. The following debts are due to me:- Rs....... .(etc.)
 Sworn before me, etc.]
*Strike off the word which are not applicable‖ EX.P. 275/2012 & EX.P. 276/2012 Page 8 of 67 21. Order XXI Rule 41(1) of Code of Civil Procedure - Oral
examination of judgment debtor
Order XXI Rule 41(1) of the Code of Civil Procedure empowers the
Executing Court to orally examine the judgment debtor. Order XXI Rule
41(1) of the Code of Civil Procedure is reproduced hereunder: - 22. Order XXI Rule 41(3) of Code of Civil Procedure - Detention of
judgment debtor
In the event of the judgment debtor‟s default to file the affidavit of assets,
Order XXI Rule 41(3) of the Code of Civil Procedure empowers the Court to
detain the judgment debtor in civil prison for up to three months. Order XXI
Rule 41(3) of the Code of Civil Procedure is reproduced below:- 23. Arrest and detention of the judgment debtor - Sections 51 (c) , 55 to 59 and Order XXI Rules 37 to 40 of the Code of Civil
Procedure prescribe the procedure to be followed for detention of the
judgment debtor in the civil prison. Section 55 deals with arrest and
detention; Section 56 deals with prohibition of arrest and detention of
women; Section 58 deals with duration of detention and release; Section 59 deals with release on the ground of illness; Order XXI Rule 37 contains
provision for show cause notice to the judgment debtor against detention in
the civil prison; Order XXI Rule 38 deals with warrants of arrest to the
judgment debtor; Section 57 and Order XXI Rule 39 deals with subsistence
allowance for the judgment debtor and Order XXI Rule 40 deals with
proceedings on appearance of the judgment debtor. 24. Attachment of property in execution of decrees Sections 51 (b) , Sections 60 to 64 and Order XXI Rules 41 to 57 of the Code
of Civil Procedure contain provisions for attachment of properties in
execution of decrees. Section 60 gives the list of properties which are liable
to attachment and sale whereas the Proviso to Sub-Section (1) of Section 60 gives the list of properties which are exempted from attachment or sale. Section 60 of the Code of Civil procedure is reproduced hereunder as
follows: thirds of the remainder in execution of any decree other than a
 decree for maintenance: Explanation I.--The moneys payable in relation to the matters
 mentioned in clauses (g), (h), (i) (ia), (j), (l) and (o) are exempt
 from attachment or sale, whether before or after they are
 actually payable, and, in the case of salary, the attachable
 portion thereof is liable to attachment, whether before or after it
 is actually payable. Explanation II.--In clauses (i) and (ia), "salary" means the total
 monthly emoluments, excluding any allowance declared exempt
 from attachment under the provisions of clause (l), derived by a
 person from his employment whether on duty or on leave.
 Explanation III--In clause (l) "appropriate Government" means- (i) as respect any person in the service of the Central
 Government, or any servant of a Railway Administration or of a
 cantonment authority or of the port authority of a major port, the
 Central Government; (iii) as respects any other servant of the Government or a servant
 of any other local authority, the State Government.
 Explanation IV.--For the purposes of this proviso, "wages"
 includes bonus, and "labourer" includes a skilled, unskilled or
 semi-skilled labourer. Explanation V.--For the purposes of this proviso, the expression
 "agriculturist" means a person who cultivates land personally
 and who depends for his livelihood mainly on the income from
 agricultural land, whether as owner, tenant, partner, or
 agricultural labourer. Explanation VI.--For the purposes of Explanation V, an
 agriculturist shall be deemed to cultivate land personally, if he
 cultivates land-- (a) by his own labour, or (b) by the labour of any member of his family, or (c) by servants or labourers on wages payable in cash or in kind
 (not being as a share of the produce), or both.
 (1A) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the
 time being in force, an agreement by which a person agrees to
 waive the benefit of any exemption under this section shall be
 void. (2) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to exempt houses and
 other buildings (with the materials and the sites thereof and the EX.P. 275/2012 & EX.P. 276/2012 Page 13 of 67 lands immediately appurtenant thereto and necessary for their
 enjoyment) from attachment or sale in execution of decrees for
 rent of any such house, building, site or land.‖ 25. Section 106 of the Indian Evidence Act - Burden of disclosing the
 assets
The assets and income of the judgment debtor are within his personal
knowledge and Section 106 of the Indian Evidence Act casts the burden on
him to disclose his assets and income. Section 106 of the Indian Evidence
Act reads as under: 26. Section 165 of the Indian Evidence Act - Judge‟s Power to put
 questions and order production

It is the duty of the Court to ascertain the truth and then, do justice upon the
basis of the truth and the Judge is not only justified but also required to elicit
the truth, wherever the interest of justice would suffer, if he did not. Section
165 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 invests the Judge with plenary powers
to put any question to any witness or party; in any form, at any time, about
any fact relevant or irrelevant. Section 165 is intended to arm the Judge with
the most extensive power possible for the purpose of getting at the truth.
The effect of this Section is that in order to get to the bottom of the matter
before it, the Court will be able to look at and inquire into every fact and
thus possibly acquire valuable indicative evidence which may lead to other
evidence strictly relevant and admissible. The Court is not, however,
permitted to found its judgment on any, but relevant statements. 27. Section 165 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 reads as under: 28. In Ved Parkash Kharbanda v. Vimal Bindal , 2013 (198) DLT 555,
this Court discussed the meaning of „Truth‟ and how to discover it. This
Court also considered Ram Chander v. State of Haryana , (1981) 3 SCC
191, Ritesh Tewari v. State of Uttar Pradesh, ( 2010) 10 SCC 677, Zahira
H. Sheikh v. State of Gujarat , ( 2004) 4 SCC 158, State of Rajasthan v. Ani ,
( 1997) 6 SCC 162, Mohanlal Shamji Soni v. Union of India , 1991 Supp. ( 1) SCC 271, Jamatraj Kewalji Govani v. State of Maharashtra , AIR 1968
SC 178, Sessions Judge Nellore Referring Officer v. Intha Ramana Reddy ,
1972 CriLJ 1485 with respect to the scope of the power under Section 165 of
the Indian Evidence Act. Truth should be the Guiding Star in the Entire Judicial Process 29. It is the duty of the Court to ascertain the true assets and income of the
judgment debtor. Truth is the foundation of justice. Dispensation of justice,
based on truth, is an essential feature in the justice delivery system. People
would have faith in Courts when truth alone triumphs. The justice based on
truth would establish peace in the society. 30. Krishna Iyer J. in Jasraj Inder Singh v. Hemraj Multanchand ,
(1977) 2 SCC 155 described truth and justice as under: 31. In Union Carbide Corporation v. Union of India , (1989) 3 SCC 38,
the Supreme Court described justice and truth to mean the same. The
observations of the Supreme Court are as under: 32. In Mohanlal Shamji Soni v. Union of India , 1991 Supp (1) SCC 271,
the Supreme Court observed that the presiding officer of a Court should not
simply sit as a mere umpire at a contest between two parties and declare at
the end of the combat who has won and who has lost and that there is a legal
duty of his own, independent of the parties, to take an active role in the
proceedings in finding the truth and administering justice. 33. In Chandra Shashi v. Anil Kumar Verma , (1995) 1 SCC 421, the
Supreme Court observed that to enable the Courts to ward off unjustified
interference in their working, those who indulge in immoral acts like
perjury, pre-variation and motivated falsehoods have to be appropriately
dealt with, without which it would not be possible for any Court to
administer justice in the true sense and to the satisfaction of those who
approach it in the hope that truth would ultimately prevail. People would
have faith in Courts when they would find that truth alone triumphs in
Courts. 34. In Zahira Habibullah Sheikh v. State of Gujarat , (2006) 3 SCC 374,
the Supreme Court observed that right from the inception of the judicial
system it has been accepted that discovery, vindication and establishment of
truth are the main purposes underlying existence of Courts of justice. 35. In Himanshu Singh Sabharwal v. State of Madhya Pradesh , (2008)
3 SCC 602, the Supreme Court held that the trial should be a search for the
truth and not about over technicalities. The Supreme Court‟s observation
are as under: (Emphasis Supplied) 36. In Maria Margarida Sequeria Fernandes v. Erasmo Jack de
Sequeria, (2012) 5 SCC 370, the Supreme Court again highlighted the
significance of truth and observed that the truth should be the guiding star in
the entire legal process and it is the duty of the Judge to discover the truth to
do complete justice. The Supreme Court stressed that Judge has to play an
active role to discover the truth and he should explore all avenues open to
him in order to discover the truth. The Supreme Court observed as under: 37. This Court has examined the law in various countries namely United
 Kingdom, USA, Canada, Australia, Singapore, Ireland, New Zealand and
 South Africa where it is mandatory for the judgment debtor to file an
 affidavit of his assets, income, expenditure and liabilities in the
 execution/enforcement proceedings and the format of the affidavit is
 prescribed in the Rules. Relevant particulars are as under: Australia Supreme Court Court Procedures Rules, Form 2.52-Statement of 1. https://www.legislation.act.g
 & Magistrates 2006 enforcement debtor's ov.au/View/af/2006-
 Court financial position 297/current/PDF/2006- 297.PDF 2. Australia Magistrates Civil Judgments Statement of financial 1. https://www.magistratescour
 Court of Enforcement Regulations, affairs t.wa.gov.au/_files/CJE_For
 Western 2005 Form 38 - Statement of m_38.pdf
 Australia financial affairs
 Part 4 - Enforcement of 2. https://www.magistratescour
 monetary Form 38A - Statement of t.wa.gov.au/_files/CJE_For
 Judgments Financial Affairs m_38A.pdf
 Division 2 - Means inquiry Corporation Regulation 17 3. https://www.magistratescour
 Form 38B - Affidavit of t.wa.gov.au/_files/CJE_For
 Financial Affairs m_38B.pdf EX.P. 275/2012 & EX.P. 276/2012 Page 19 of 67 Magistrates' Court General Judgment Debtor‟s 3. Australia Magistrates‟ 1. https://www.mcv.vic.gov.au/
 Civil Procedure Rules, Statement of Financial
 Court of sites/default/files/2018- Position - Corporation - 2. https://www.mcv.vic.gov.au/
 Rule 67.01(3)(8)
 Form 67C sites/default/files/2018-
 10/Examination-of- judgment-debtor- corporation-Form-67C.pdf 4. Australia Supreme Court Uniform Civil Procedure Statement of Financial 1. https://www.courts.qld.gov.a
 of Queensland Rules 1999, Rule 807 Position u/__data/assets/word_doc/00
 05/88421/form-071-
 statement-of-financial- Part 38 - Examination of Form - 52 Examination 2. http://www.ucprforms.justic
 judgment debtor etc. Notice - Corporation e.nsw.gov.au/Documents/PD
 Rule 38.1 F/ucpr_form_53_v3.pdf 6. Ireland The Courts District Court (Civil Order 51A, Rule 4 - 1. http://www.courts.ie/rules.ns
 Services of Procedure) Rules, 2014 Schedule: C - Forms in f/53bd32841fc5bbf280256d
 Ireland civil proceedings 2b0045bb5d/8bce12e357295
 Enforcement of Court 52e80257c91005a71fa?Ope
 Form: 51A.02 Statement nDocument
 Orders Act 1926, Part - II,
 of means Section 15(1) - Examination of Debtors 7. New New Zealand District Court Act, 2016 Financial Statement of 1. https://www.justice.govt.nz/
 Zealand Ministry of judgment debtor assets/Documents/Forms/20
 Justice Part 10 - Enforcement of 8w-filing-a-statement-of- MOJ208/10/19 2. https://www.justice.govt.nz/
 assets/Documents/Forms/Fin
 Organization - Form 36a ancial-statement-individual- 3. https://www.justice.govt.nz/
 assets/Documents/Forms/20
 Part 19 - Enforcement - 9-filing-a-statement-of- Rule 19.15 - 19.19
 judgment-debtor- organisation.pdf 4. https://www.justice.govt.nz/
 assets/Documents/Forms/Fin
 ancial-statement-company- 36a.pdf 8. Singapore Supreme Court Supreme Court Practice Forms 11A - 1. https://epd.supremecourt.go
 of Singapore Directions, 2013 [Last Examination of Judgment v.sg/downloads/Appendix_
 updated on 04th December, EX.P. 275/2012 & EX.P. 276/2012 Page 20 of 67 2019] Debtor - Individual A/Form_11A.pdf
 Part X: Enforcement of
 Judgments and Orders Forms 11B - 2. https://epd.supremecourt.go
 Examination of Judgment v.sg/downloads/Appendix_
 Rule 80A. Examination of Debtor - Company A/Form_11B.pdf
 Judgment Debtor 9. Singapore The State Examination of Judgment 1. https://www.statecourts.gov. Courts of debtor - Toolkit sg/cws/CivilCase/Document
 Singapore, Civil s/Civil_Toolkit_EJD_17022
 Justice Division Forms 44 - Examination 014.pdf
 of Judgment Debtor - Individual 2. https://www.statecourts.gov. sg/cws/CivilCase/Document
 Forms 45 - Examination s/PD07032014-AppB- 3. https://www.statecourts.gov.
 sg/cws/CivilCase/Document
 s/PD07032014-AppB- Form45-
 EJDQuestionairre.doc 10. U.K. Her Majesty's Civil Procedure Rules, Appendix A - Form 1. https://assets.publishing.serv
 Courts and 1998 EX140: Record of ice.gov.uk/government/uplo
 Tribunals evidence (individual ads/system/uploads/attachm
 Service PART 71 - Orders To debtor) ent_data/file/688117/ex140- EX141 : Record of 2. https://assets.publishing.serv
 County Courts‟ Practice Direction Part 71 evidence (Officer of a ice.gov.uk/government/uplo - Orders To Obtain company ads/system/uploads/attachm
 Information From ent_data/file/688119/ex141-
 Judgment Debtors Form N316: Apply for an eng.pdf
 order for a debtor to
 Rule 71.6 of Orders To attend court 3. https://assets.publishing.serv
 Obtain Information From ice.gov.uk/government/uplo
 Judgment Debtors Para Form N316A: ads/system/uploads/attachm
 (4.1) of Practice Direction Application for order that ent_data/file/688613/n316-
 Part 71 - Orders To officer of the debtor eng.pdf
 Obtain Information From company attend court for
 questioning 4. https://assets.publishing.serv
 ice.gov.uk/government/uplo
 ads/system/uploads/attachm
 ent_data/file/688616/n316a- eng.pdf 11. Canada Court of Civil Enforcement Act Form 13 - Financial 1. https://albertacourts.ca/docs/
 Queen‟s Bench Statement of Debtor default- Alberta Regulation Statement of Debtor 2. https://albertacourts.ca/docs/
 276/1995 With (Corporate Debtor) default- considering that inordinate delay in execution proceedings frustrates the
 decree-holder from reaping the benefits of the decree/award. 39. In cases of execution of decrees/awards for recovery of money, the
Executing Court shall direct the judgment debtor, at the first instance, to file
an affidavit of assets on the date of cause of action, date of the decree/award
as well as on the date of the swearing of the affidavit in Form 16A,
Appendix E under Order XXI Rule 41(2) of the Code of Civil Procedure within thirty days. The oral prayer/application of the decree-holder for
issuance of this direction is sufficient compliance of Order XXI Rule 41(2) of the Code of Civil Procedure . 40. The Executing Court is empowered, at the initial stage itself, to
restrain the judgment debtor from transferring, alienating or disposing of or
otherwise parting with the possession of any assets to the tune of the
decretal/award amount except in the ordinary course of business such as
payment of salary and statutory dues. However, the judgment debtor shall
not discharge any financial liability, other than the liabilities of
Banks/financial institutions, without the permission of the Executing Court. 41. If the judgment debtor fails to appear before the Court upon service of
notice, the Executing Court shall ensure his presence initially by issuing
bailable warrants and thereafter, by issuing non-bailable warrants. 42. In the event of the default of the judgment debtor to file the aforesaid
affidavit within the stipulated time, the Executing Court shall consider
detention of the judgment debtor in civil prison for a term not exceeding
three months under Order XXI Rule 41(3) of the Code of Civil Procedure by
directing the decree-holder to deposit the subsistence allowance @ Rs.40 per
day per person with the Executing Court for detention of the judgment
debtor. Upon deposit of the subsistence allowance, the Executing Court shall
issue non-bailable warrants against the judgment debtor for his detention. 43. Since Form 16A, Appendix E under Order XXI Rule 41(2) of the
Code of Civil Procedure is not exhaustive to ascertain all the assets of the
decree-holder, the Executing Court shall, in exercise of power under Section
151 and Order XXI Rule 41 of the Code of Civil Procedure read with Section 106 and Section 165 of the Indian Evidence Act, direct the judgment
debtor to file an additional affidavit of his assets and income in the format of
Annexure-A along with documents mentioned therein within thirty days. If
the judgment debtor is a proprietor of a proprietorship firm; partner of a
partnership firm; member of an HUF and/or Director of a company,
additional affidavits be filed by the judgment debtor in respect of the assets
of each firm/HUF/Company, as the case may be, in the format of Annexure-
B. 44. After examining Annexure-A, the Court may direct the judgment
debtor to file an additional affidavit of his expenditure in the format of
Annexure-C. 45. If the judgment debtor is a Firm/Company/HUF/Trust, the Court shall
direct the judgment debtor to disclose its assets and income in the format of
Annexure-B. This affidavit of the Firm/Company/HUF/Trust shall be sworn
by all Partners/Directors (other than independent/ non-executive and
nominee directors) /Members/Managing Trustee, as the case may be. 46. If any ground for lifting of the corporate veil is made out, then all the
Directors (other than independent/ non-executive and nominee directors) of
the judgment debtor Company be directed to disclose their personal assets
and income in the format of Annexure-A. 47. Upon filing of affidavits in Form 16A, Appendix E under Order XXI
Rule 41(2) of the Code of Civil Procedure as well as the additional affidavits EX.P. 275/2012 & EX.P. 276/2012 Page 25 of 67 namely Annexure-A, B and C, the Executing Court shall give liberty to the
decree-holder to verify the disclosures made in the affidavits, either himself
or through an Investigator. 48. While formulating the affidavits Annexure-A, B and C, many more
questions and documents were considered by this Court which would have
complicated the affidavits and caused inconvenience to the litigants. In order
to keep the affidavits concise and precise, this Court incorporated only
important questions and documents. However, the Courts are at liberty to
direct the parties to disclose further relevant facts and documents to
determine the true assets and income of the judgment debtor. The Courts are
also at liberty to consider the rules and formats of affidavits mentioned in
para 37 to develop and further improve the format of the affidavits
formulated by this Court. 49. The Courts shall ensure that the filing of the affidavits by the
judgment debtor is not reduced to a mere ritual or formality. If the affidavit
of the judgment debtor is not in the prescribed format or is not accompanied
with the relevant documents, the Court may grant reasonable time to the
judgment debtor to remove the defects/ deficiencies. 50. The Courts/Arbitral Tribunals are empowered to direct a party to file
the aforesaid affidavits in proceedings under Order XXXVIII of the Code of
Civil Procedure and proceedings under Sections 9 , 17 and 36 of the
Arbitration and Conciliation Act. 51. The decree-holder is at liberty to serve the interrogatories and seek
production of relevant documents from the judgment debtor. 52. The Executing Court shall, thereafter, consider whether the oral
examination of the judgment debtor is necessary under Section 165 of the EX.P. 275/2012 & EX.P. 276/2012 Page 26 of 67 Evidence Act . If so, the Executing Court shall proceed to examine the
judgment debtor. 53. Sections 51 (b) , 60 to 64 and Order XXI Rules 41 to 57 of the Code of
Civil Procedure contain the provisions for attachment of properties in
execution of decrees. Before attaching a property, the Executing Court shall
ensure that the property does not fall in the list of properties which are
exempt from attachment/sale under the Proviso to Section 60(1) of the Code
of Civil Procedure. The Executing Court shall ensure the compliance of Sections 60 to 64 and Order XXI Rules 41 to 57 of the Code of Civil
Procedure with respect to the attachment of properties in execution of
decrees. 54. When the Executing Court finds that the judgment debtor is not
satisfying the decree/award despite having means/capacity to pay, the
decree-holder is at liberty to file an application for detention of the judgment
debtor whereupon the Executing Court shall issue a show cause notice to the
judgment debtor to show cause as to why he should not be committed to
civil prison. The Court shall, upon being satisfied that the judgment debtor
has means to pay the decretal amount or substantial part thereof and has
refused or neglected to pay the same, pass an order for detention of the
judgment debtor in civil prison for a period not exceeding three months in
terms of Section 58 (1) (a) of the Code of Civil Procedure. Even after release
from detention, the judgment debtor shall remain liable to satisfy the
decree/award in terms of Section 58 (2) of the Code of Civil Procedure.
However, the judgment debtor who has no means to satisfy the
decree/award, cannot be detained in civil prison. The Court shall follow the
procedure laid down in Sections 51(c) , 55 to 59 and Order XXI Rules 37 to EX.P. 275/2012 & EX.P. 276/2012 Page 27 of 67 40 of the Code of Civil Procedure for detention of the judgment debtor. 55. In appropriate cases, the Executing Court may (i) issue notice and
direct the Garnishee(s) to deposit in Court the amount due to the judgment
debtor as per law; (ii) permit the decree-holder to inspect all the assets and
the records of the judgment debtor in the presence of the Local
Commissioner to be appointed by the Court; (iii) direct the auditor of the
judgment debtor company to submit a report with respect to the affairs of the
judgment debtor; (iv) permit the decree-holder to serve interrogatories on the
auditors of the judgment debtor; (v) permit the decree-holder to inspect the
records of the judgment debtor with the Income Tax and the other authorities
to verify the disclosures made by the judgment debtor; (vi) in extreme cases,
appoint a Chartered Accountant as a Local Commissioner to inspect all the
records of the judgment debtor and submit a report to the Court with respect
to the affairs of the judgment debtor; (vii) restrain the judgment debtor from
leaving the country without the permission of the Court; and (viii) impound
the passport of the judgment debtor. 56. If the judgment debtor has made any misrepresentation, concealment
or false statement in the affidavits, the decree-holder is at liberty to invoke Section 340 Cr.P.C. Reference be made to the principles laid down in Sanjeev Kumar Mittal v. State , 174 ( 2010) DLT 214 and H.S. Bedi v.
National Highway Authority of India , 2016 (227) DLT 129.
Directions to the District Courts 57. The District Courts shall implement these guidelines with immediate
effect by directing the judgment debtor to file the affidavit of assets and
income on the date of the cause of action, date of decree/award and on the
date of the swearing of the affidavit in Form 16A, Appendix E under Order EX.P. 275/2012 & EX.P. 276/2012 Page 28 of 67 XXI Rule 41(2) of the Code of Civil Procedure as well as additional
affidavits in the format of Annexure-A or Annexure-B, as the case may be,
within thirty days. 58. Delhi High Court Rules for execution of decrees [Volume I of High
Court Rules and Orders, Part C, Chapter 12 - Part A - ‗General'] provides
for expeditious disposal of the execution cases by District Courts. Rule 2
provides at least one day every week to be reserved for execution work to
ensure expeditious disposal. Rules 4 and 5 provide for close supervision and
control of the execution cases by the District Judge and report to the High
Court in the event of any delay in the disposal of execution cases. Rules 2, 4
and 5 of Volume I of High Court Rules and Orders, Part C, Chapter 12,
Part A General of Delhi High Court Rules are reproduced hereunder: 59. All the District Judges are directed to send the report with respect to
the compliance of Rules 2, 4 and 5 of Delhi High Court Rules by the Courts
below in execution cases. The reports shall give the year-wise pendency of
execution cases district wise along with their present status. The Courts
below shall expedite the execution cases and endeavour to decide the same
within a period of one year. 60. The Courts below are also directed to give their inputs with respect to EX.P. 275/2012 & EX.P. 276/2012 Page 30 of 67 the impact of these guidelines on the execution jurisdiction before the next
date of hearing. The reports be submitted through the Registrar General of
this Court who shall compile and place the same before this Court on the
next date of hearing. 61. If any counsel/litigant has any further suggestions with respect to
these directions, the same be submitted to this Court through the learned
amicus curiae, Mr. Dayan Krishnan, Senior Advocate, Mr. Sanjiv Kakra,
Advocate or through the Honorary Secretary of the High Court Bar
Association. 62. Paras 7, 8 and 10 of the judgment dated 11th January, 2016 titled Bhandari Engineers & Builders Pvt. Ltd. v. Maharia Raj Joint Venture ,
(2016) 227 DLT 302 are modified to the extent that the judgment debtors
shall henceforth file the affidavit of assets and income in terms of this
judgment. 63. List for considering the impact reports and further suggestions on
11th February, 2020. 64. This Court appreciates the assistance rendered by Mr. Dayan
Krishnan, Senior Advocate and Mr. Sanjiv Kakra, Advocate as amicus
curiae in formulating this procedure. Mr. Rajiv Nayyar, Senior Advocate;
Mr. Rajiv Virmani, Senior Advocate; and Mr. Jayant Mehta, Advocate have
also given valuable inputs. This Court also appreciates the extensive
research on corresponding law in other countries by Mr. Akshay
Chowdhary, Law Researcher, attached to this Court. 65. Copy of this judgment along with Annexure-A, B and C be sent to all
the District Judges who shall circulate the same to all the concerned Courts. 66. The format of the affidavits Annexure-A, B and C be uploaded on the EX.P. 275/2012 & EX.P. 276/2012 Page 31 of 67 website of the District Court (both in .doc/.docx and .pdf format) to enable
the lawyers/litigants to download the same. 67. Copy of the judgment along with Annexures-A, B and C be sent to
the Judicial Academy to sensitize the judges about the principles laid down
by this Court. 68. Copy of this judgment be given dasti to counsel for the parties as well
as to learned amicus curiae and to Honorary Secretary, Delhi High Court Bar
Association who shall assist this Court with respect to the suggestions
received from the Bar. J.R. MIDHA, J. DECEMBER 5, 2019
dk/ds/ak EX.P. 275/2012 & EX.P. 276/2012 Page 32 of 67 ANNEXURE - A

 FORMAT OF AFFIDAVIT OF ASSETS AND INCOME
[If the judgment debtor is a proprietor/partner of a Firm/member of HUF/or Director in a
company, an additional affidavit be filed in respect of the assets and income of the
Firm/HUF/Company, as the case may be, in the format of Annexure-B]

I _______________________, son of / daughter of / wife of / ___________________, aged
about ____ years, resident of ___________________________, do hereby solemnly affirm
and declare as under: S. No. Description Particulars 1. Whether you have means to satisfy the award/
 decree/order? If yes, please give the proposed
 schedule of payment: 2.
 Age 3.
 Educational/ Professional qualifications 4.
 Occupation 5.
 Total monthly income from all sources including 6.
 employment, business, vocation, interest or investment,
 income from properties, assets, etc.

 Current source of income as well as sources of the 7.
 income in the last five years

 Marital Status 8.
 Complete details of the immediate family members 9.
 (Name, age, relation, occupation, income, residence and
 office addresses in last ten years) (a) Present residential address 10. (b) Permanent residential address EX.P. 275/2012& EX.P. 276/2012 Page 33 of 67 (c) Present Office address (d) E-mail address (e) Mobile No.(s) (f) Landline Phone No.(s)
 Residence:- 11. Particulars of the immovable
 properties including joint
 properties, built up properties,
 lease hold properties, land/
 agricultural land and investment in
 real estate such as booking of plots,
 flats, etc.

 Possession
 Whether the possession of the
 above properties is with the
 deponent? If no, give status of the
 possession. Title documents
 Whether the title documents of the
 above properties are with the
 deponent? If no, give status of the
 possession of the title documents. Litigation
 Whether any litigation is pending
 in respect of the above properties.
 If so, give particulars. Movable Assets 12. (viii) Other household appliances (ix) Quantity of gold, silver and
 diamond jewellery (x) Quantity of silver utensils (xi) List anything else of value
 that you own, including
 precious metals,
 collections, works of art,
 jewellery or household
 items of value of more than
 Rs.25,000/- each. Financial Assets/Debts Current 13. Account Number Name of Bank
 Balance (i) Particulars of all bank (i)
 accounts including Current and
 Savings Accounts in your name or
 joint names held in the last ten (ii)
 years. Note : If any bank account(s) (iii)
 has/have been classified by the
 banks as willful defaulter under
 the Master Circular on „Wilful (iv)
 Defaulters‟ dated 01.07.2015
 [RBI/2015-
 16/100DBR.No.CID.BC .22/20.16. 003/2015-16] or Reserve Bank of
 India (Frauds classification and
 reporting by commercial banks
 and select Financial Institutions) EX.P. 275/2012& EX.P. 276/2012 Page 35 of 67 directions 2016 under Master
 Circular dated 01.07.2016(RBI
 /DBS/2016-17/28 DBS. CO. CFMC. BC. No.1/23.04.001 /2016-17), give
 particulars of such bank accounts. Details of all investments you hold
 or, in which you have interest and
 their current value: (i) FDR(s), NSC, IVP, KVP,
 Post Office schemes etc. (ii) Deposits with Government
 and Non-Government entities (iii) Stocks, shares, debentures,
 bonds, units and mutual funds, etc. (iv) All insurance policies and
 their surrender value (v) Loan given to friends,
 relatives and others (vi) Details of all the foreign
 investments made including those
 made in last ten years or from the
 date of beginning of cause of
 action, whichever is later (vii) Details of the charity
 institutions or other bodies in
 which you made donations, gifts,
 grants, etc in last ten years or from
 the date of beginning of cause of EX.P. 275/2012& EX.P. 276/2012 Page 36 of 67 action, whichever is later. (viii) Retirement Savings Plan
 and other retirement benefits and
 honorarium received till date. - Indicate name of institution where
 accounts are held, name and
 address of plan and details. Intangible assets including patents,
 trademark, copyright, design,
 goodwill held by the individual and
 their value

 Garnishee(s)/Trade receivables 16. (i) Name(s) and addresses of
 Garnishee(s) and the particulars of
 the debt, share and other
 properties recoverable from the
 Garnishee(s) with complete details
 of the transactions (ii) Trade receivables along
 with name, address and amount
 due from each entity. Corporate/Business Interests 17. Particulars of the interest/ position/
 association you hold, directly or
 indirectly, in any corporation,
 unincorporated business, company,
 partnership, trust, joint venture and
 Association of Persons, Society etc
 in the last ten years or from the
 beginning of cause of action,
 whichever is later. Properties acquired by the 18. judgment debtor in the name of
 the family members (i) Particulars of the properties
 (movable/ immovable) acquired by
 your immediate family members
 (wife/husband/children/ parents) in
 the last ten years or from the date EX.P. 275/2012& EX.P. 276/2012 Page 37 of 67 of beginning of the cause of action,
 whichever is later. (ii) Whether the deponent
 contributed any amount in the
 above acquisition. If so, give
 particulars of contribution. (iii) Details of the funds
 transferred by you in the name of
 immediate family members in the
 last ten years or from the date of
 beginning cause of action,
 whichever is later. (iv) Details and particulars of
 shares purchased/investments
 made by you in the name of
 immediate family members in the
 last ten years or from the date of
 beginning cause of action
 whichever is later. Existing charges on the assets 19.
 Particulars of all existing charges
 on the assets including mortgage,
 charge, pledge on the assets. Whether the charges are registered,
 and the present status of the same. Whether any of the assets are
 subject to attachment proceedings
 under any Act including Prevention
 of Money Laundering Act, Income
 Tax Act, Benami Transactions
 (Prohibition) Act and Black Money
 (Undisclosed Foreign Income and
 Assets) and Imposition of Tax Act. About disposal of properties 20.
 Particulars of all properties
 transferred/agreed to be transferred
 or parted with the possession by
 any mode including sale, gift,
 relinquishment, General power of
 attorney, Special power of
 attorney, exchange, agreement,
 family settlement, lease, transfer of
 share holding/investment, etc in
 any company, partnership, trust, EX.P. 275/2012& EX.P. 276/2012 Page 38 of 67 joint venture and Association of
 Persons, Society in the last ten
 years or from the date of beginning
 of cause of action, whichever is
 later; name/address of the
 transferee and the sale
 consideration received from the
 transferee(s)
 List of all the properties that were
 ever been in your name or in which
 you had any right/interest. About parting away of properties 21.
 Complete details of all gift deeds,
 relinquishment deeds or any other
 deed of disposition/transfer
 executed in favour of children,
 grand children or in favour of
 anyone else, details of the funds
 transferred by the person in the
 name of immediate family
 members in the last ten years or
 from the date of beginning of
 cause of action whichever is later

 Inheritance 22.
 Particulars of the estate in which
 you are beneficiary of inheritance
 along with market value of the
 property inherited. List of other incomes not itemized 23. above

 DECLARATION OF INCOME
 On the date of On the date of the Present
S. No Description the cause of award/decree
 action

 In case of salaried persons 24. (i) Designation (ii) Name and address of the
 employer (iii) Date of employment (iv) Gross Income including the EX.P. 275/2012& EX.P. 276/2012 Page 39 of 67 salary, D.A., commissions/
 incentives, bonus, perks etc. (v) Perquisites and other
 benefits provided by the
 employer including
 accommodation, cars/other
 automotive, sweeper,
 gardener, watchman or
 personal attendant, gas,
 electricity, water, interest
 free or concessional loans,
 holiday expenses, free or
 concessional travel, free
 meals, free education, gifts,
 vouchers, etc. credit card
 expenses, club expenses, use
 of movable assets by
 employees, transfer of assets
 to employees, value of any
 other benefit/amenity/
 service/ privilege and the
 value of such perquisites
 and benefits (vi) Deductions from the gross
 income (vii) Income tax paid (viii) Net income (ix) Value of stock option
 benefits, if provided by the
 employer

 Note:- If unemployed, give
 particulars of last employment; length of last employment; period
 of last employment; name and
 address of last employer and
 earnings from the last employment
 In case of self-employed persons 25. 2 (i) Nature of business/
 profession (ii) Whether the business/
 profession is carried on as
 an individual, sole
 proprietorship concern,
 partnership concern,
 company or association of
 persons, HUF, joint family EX.P. 275/2012& EX.P. 276/2012 Page 40 of 67 business or any other form. Note: If the business is
 closed/non-active, give the date of
 closure, assets on the date of
 closure, present status of the
 assets and if the assets have been
 transferred, the particulars of the
 transfer and consideration
 received. In case of an individual 26. 3/proprietorship firm (i) Office address and the
 branch offices, if any, (ii) Number of employees (iii) Annual turnover/ gross
 receipts (iv) Gross Profit (v) Income Tax (vi) Net Income (vii) Details and value of benefits
 in kind, perks or other
 remuneration received from
 the business e.g. provision of
 car, payment of
 accommodation etc. (viii) Amount of regular monthly
 withdrawal or drawings from
 the business (ix) Value of your business
 interest(s) (x) Value of your business assets (xi) Location of your business
 assets (xii) Location of the statutory
 records and books of account
 of the business
 In case of Company, partnership, 27. .HUF, joint family business or any
 other form (i) Details of registration and
 incorporation (ii) Address of the Registered
 Office and the branch offices, EX.P. 275/2012& EX.P. 276/2012 Page 41 of 67 if any, of the firm including
 all addresses from the date of
 beginning of cause of action
 till the date of filing of the
 present affidavit. (iii) Details of shareholding of the
 partners, directors, promoters
 and their family members (iv) Details of all subsidiary
 Companies and sister
 concerns (v) Net worth of the Company
 /firm/HUF. (xiii) Value of your business assets (xiii) Location of your business
 assets (xiv) Location of the statutory
 records and books of account
 of the firm
 Income from Other Sources 28. (iii) Interest on bank deposits and
 FDRs (iv) Interest on investments
 including deposits, NSC,
 IVP, KVP, Post Office
 schemes, PPF, loans etc. (v) Dividends (vi) Income from machinery,
 plant or furniture let on hire. 29. Whether any partner/ Director has
 taken loan/overdrawn/ taken credit?
 If so, give particulars. Has the company/firm transferred 30. any assets to any Director/partner? If so, give particulars. Particulars of the benefits received 31. by any Director/ partner from the
 company/firm other than by way of
 salary. Amount of regular monthly 32. withdrawal or drawings from the
 business 33. 6
 Any other income not covered
 above

 Note : - If you are expecting to
 receive a lump sum payment in the
 future, give further details
 including the amount and
 expected date of receipt of the
 payment. TOTAL MONTHLY INCOME

 PERSONAL INFORMATION OF THE DEPONENT 34. Have you ever been arrested? 35. Have you ever been kept under detention? 36. Have any Court issued bailable/non-bailable warrants
 for appearance against you? 37. Have you ever been released on bail/anticipatory bail? 38. Have you ever been prosecuted for any offence? 39. Have you ever been convicted for any offence? 40. Have you ever been declared as proclaimed
 offender/proclaimed person by any Court? 41. If the answer to any of the above mentioned questions
 (S.No. 34-40) is „Yes‟, give full particulars of the
 case/arrest/bail/detention/conviction/sentence/
 punishment etc. 42. Particulars of all pending litigations, disputes, claims,
 arbitrations, FIR‟s, Complaints etc pending in any
 Court, Tribunal, Forum, Authority, in which you are
 party. Give the name of the case, name of the Court, nature of
 case, amount involved and the next date of hearing. 43. Details of all decided/disposed off litigations, disputes,
 claims, arbitrations, FIR‟s, Complaints etc decided in
 any Court, Tribunal, Forum, Authority, in which you
 were party. Give the name of the case, name of the Court, nature of
 case, amount involved and date of decision. 44. Particulars of all the unsatisfied decrees/awards. 45. Details of Company(s) in which you are a director or
 had been a director in the last five years 46. Details of all firms and other business entities in which
 you have/had interest in the last five years. 47. Details of loan/credit facility(s) taken from banks and
 other financial institutions in the last five years and the
 present status. 48. Whether the judgment debtor is subject to audit under Section 44AB of the Income Tax Act, 1961? 49. Whether the judgment debtor filed a Wealth Tax Return
 under the Wealth Tax Act, 1957 prior to abolition of EX.P. 275/2012& EX.P. 276/2012 Page 44 of 67 Wealth Tax in the year 2015? 50. Name and address of the auditors and date of last audit
 of accounts 51. Particulars of place of residence where you have resided during the preceding five years

 Period Address in full with Police Station & Distt. Whether
 along with area (in sq. ft.) of the residential owner/tenant? If
 accommodation rented, the amount
 From To of rent? 52. Frequency of foreign travel, business as well as
 personal 53. Particulars of the countries visited till now? 54. Do you intend to travel outside India? If yes, Give
 details of the visit, purpose of visit and the
 approximate expenditure on the visit. 55. Category of hotels ordinarily used for stay, official as
 well as personal 56. Particulars of loyalty programmes of airlines, hotels,
 retail chains and other merchants, to which you have
 subscribed, with membership numbers of each such
 programme. 57. Particulars of your social media accounts, e.g.,
 Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, Instagram, etc. EX.P. 275/2012& EX.P. 276/2012 Page 45 of 67 58. Particulars of credit/debit cards, its limit and usage 59. Mode of travel in city/outside city 60. Category of hospitals opted for medical treatment
 including type of rooms 61. Name of school(s) where the child or children are
 studying or have studied 62. Status of the deponent/family: o High
 o Upper Middle
 o Middle
 o Lower Middle
 o Low
 o Below poverty line

 DOCUMENTS RELATING TO PERSONAL INFORMATION, ASSETS AND
 INCOME

S. No. Document Description of Document 63. Aadhaar Card 64. PAN Card 65. Passport 66. CIR/CIBIL
 Title deeds of the immovable properties of 67.
 the deponent. Documents pertaining to any pre-existing 68.
 charge on the assets, or orders pertaining to
 attachment of assets by authorities
 including but not limited under Prevention
 of Money Laundering Act, Income Tax
 Act, Benami Transactions (Prohibition)
 Act and Black Money (Undisclosed
 Foreign Income and Assets) and EX.P. 275/2012& EX.P. 276/2012 Page 46 of 67 Imposition of Tax Act. Documents relating to the debt, share and 69.
 other properties of the deponent
 recoverable from the Garnishee(s). Title documents relating to the properties 70.
 transferred, alienated or parted with person
 or agreed to be transferred between the
 date of beginning of cause of action upto
 the date of filing of this affidavit. Statement of Account of all bank accounts 71.
 including current and savings accounts for
 last three years. Transfer documents in respect of the profit 72.
 on sale of property/properties between the
 date of beginning of cause of action upto
 the date of filing of this affidavit. 73. In case of Salaried Persons (i) Income Tax Return(s) along with
 the balance sheets, statement of
 income and Annexures for last five
 years. 74. In case of self-employed persons (i) Income Tax Return(s) along with
 the balance sheets, Profit & Loss
 Account, statement of income and
 Annexures for last five years. (ii) Income Tax Return(s) along with
 the balance sheets, Profit & Loss
 Account, statement of income and
 Annexures of the proprietorship
 firm, if the business is carried on in
 the name of a sole proprietorship
 concern for last five years. (iii) Income Tax Return(s) along with EX.P. 275/2012& EX.P. 276/2012 Page 47 of 67 the balance sheets, Profit & Loss
 Account, statement of income and
 Annexures of the partnership firm,
 if the deponent is a partner in a firm
 along with the Schedule showing
 the distribution of partners‟
 remuneration and share of
 profits/losses of the partnership firm
 and the copy of the partnership deed
 for last five years. (iv) Income Tax Return(s) along with
 the balance sheets, Profit & Loss
 Account, statement of income and
 Annexures of the Company in
 which the deponent is a Director for
 last five years. (v) Income Tax Return(s) along with
 the balance sheets, Profit & Loss
 Account, statement of income and
 Annexures of the Association of
 Persons, HUF, Joint Family
 business or Trust in which the
 deponent has share for last five
 years. registration, returns of the person in
 last ten years or from the date of
 beginning cause of action whichever
 is later. (viii) TDS certificates
 In case of Income from other sources: 75. (i) Lease Deed(s)/ Rent Agreement(s)/
 License Agreement(s) in respect of
 the rental income. (ii) Interest Certificate in respect of the
 interest income on deposits and
 investments. (iii) Dividend Certificates (a) Form 26AS downloaded from the 76.
 website of Income Tax Department for
 the last five financial years. (b) Wealth Tax Returns with all schedules
 and particulars for five years prior to
 abolition of Wealth tax. (c) Forms 3CA/3CB and 3CD, as
 applicable, pursuant to Section 44AB of the Income Tax Act, 1961 filed for
 the last five years. Documents relating to the unsatisfied 79.
 decrees/awards

 FIR(s) in which the deponent was or is 80.
 involved

 Other relevant documents relating to 81.
 Income and Assets

 Declaration: DEPONENT

Verification: Title documents
 Whether the title documents of the
 above properties are with the
 deponent? If no, give status of the
 possession of the title documents. Litigation
 Whether any litigation is pending
 in respect of the above properties.
 If so, give particulars. 22. Movable Assets (i) Motor Vehicles (List of
 cars, motorcycles, scooters etc.
 along with their brand and
 registration number) (ii) Livestock (iii) Plant & Equipments (iv) Mobile phone(s) (v) Computer/Laptop (vi) Other electronic gadgets
 including I-pad etc. (vii) TV, Fridge, Air
 Conditioner, etc. (viii) List anything else of value EX.P. 275/2012& EX.P. 276/2012 Page 53 of 67 of more than Rs.25,000/- each 23. Financial Assets/Debts: Account Number Name of Bank Current
 Balance (i) Particulars of all bank
 accounts including Current
 and Savings Accounts in your
 name or joint names held in (i)
 the last ten years. (ii)
 Note : If any bank account(s)
 has/have been classified by the
 banks as willful defaulter under (iii)
 the Master Circular on „Wilful
 Defaulters‟ dated 01.07.2015
 [RBI/2015-
 16/100DBR.No.CID.BC.22/20.16. 003/2015-16] or Reserve Bank of
 India (Frauds classification and
 reporting by commercial banks
 and select Financial Institutions) (iv)
 directions 2016 under Master
 Circular dated 01.07.2016(RBI
 /DBS/2016-17/28 DBS. CO. CFMC. BC. No.1/23.04.001 /2016-17), give
 particulars of such bank
 accounts. Details of all investments you hold
 or, in which you have interest and
 their current value: (iii) Stocks, shares, debentures,
 bonds, units and mutual funds, etc. (iv) All insurance policies
 including (v) Loan given (vi) Details of all the foreign
 investments made including those
 made in last ten years or from the
 date of beginning of cause of
 action, whichever is later (vii) Details of the charity
 institutions or other bodies in
 which you made donations, gifts,
 grants, etc in last ten years or from
 the date of beginning of cause of
 action, whichever is later. (viii) Other investments not
 covered by above items 25. Intangible assets

 Intangible assets including patents,
 trademark, copyright, design,
 goodwill held by the individual
 and their value

 Details Current
 Value 26. Garnishee(s)/Trade receivables (i) Name(s) and addresses of
 Garnishee(s) and the particulars
 of the debt, share and other
 properties recoverable from the
 Garnishee(s) with complete
 details of the transactions (ii) Trade receivables along
 with name, address and amount
 due from each entity 27. Corporate/Business Interests

 Particulars of the interest/
 position/ association you hold,
 directly or indirectly, in any
 corporation, unincorporated
 business, Company, partnership, EX.P. 275/2012& EX.P. 276/2012 Page 55 of 67 trust, joint venture and Association
 of Persons, Society etc in the past
 ten years or from the beginning of
 cause of action, whichever is later. Complete details of all the
 subsidiary Companies, their
 operations and balance sheets for
 the past ten years or from the date
 of beginning of cause of action,
 whichever is later. 28. Existing charges on the assets

 Particulars of all existing charges
 on the assets including mortgage,
 charge, pledge on the assets. Whether the charges are registered,
 and the present status of the same. Whether any of the assets are
 subject to attachment proceedings
 under any Act including
 Prevention of Money Laundering
 Act, Income Tax Act, Benami
 Transactions (Prohibition) Act and
 Black Money (Undisclosed
 Foreign Income and Assets) and
 Imposition of Tax Act. 29. About disposal of properties

 Particulars of all properties
 transferred/agreed to be transferred
 or parted with the possession by
 any mode including sale, gift,
 relinquishment, General Power of
 Attorney, Special Power of
 Attorney, exchange, agreement,
 family settlement, lease, transfer of
 share holding/investment, etc in
 any company, partnership, trust,
 joint venture and Association of
 Persons, Society in the past ten
 years or from the date of beginning
 of cause of action, whichever is
 later; name/address of the
 transferee and the sale
 consideration received from the
 transferee(s)
 List of all the properties that were EX.P. 275/2012& EX.P. 276/2012 Page 56 of 67 ever been in your name or in
 which you had any right/interest. 30. List of other incomes not itemized
 above

 DECLARATION OF INCOME

S. No Description On the date of On the date of the Present
 the cause of award/decree
 action 31. Income from business/profession 32. Income from Other Sources - (iii) Interest on bank deposits and
 FDRs (iv) Interest on investments
 including deposits, NSC,
 IVP, KVP, Post Office
 schemes, PPF, loans etc. (v) Dividends (vi) Income from machinery,
 plant or furniture let on hire. (vii) Profit on sale of movable/
 immovable assets. closed/non-active, give the date of
 closure, assets on the date of
 closure, present status of the
 assets and if the assets have been
 transferred, the particulars of the
 transfer and consideration
 received. 33. Annual turnover/gross receipt 34. Gross Profit EX.P. 275/2012& EX.P. 276/2012 Page 57 of 67 35. Income Tax 36. Net Income

 OTHER RELEVANT INFORMATION 37. Whether Proprietor / Partners /Directors /Promoters /
 Trustee other key persons of the judgment debtor ever
 been arrested in the last ten years? 38. Whether Proprietor / Partners /Directors /Promoters/
 Trustees /other key persons /of the judgment debtor ever
 been kept under detention in the last ten years? 39. Whether any Court issued bailable/non-bailable warrants
 for appearance of Proprietor / Partners /Directors
 /Promoters / Trustee /other key persons of the judgment
 debtor in the last ten years? 40. Whether Proprietor / Partners /Directors /Promoters /
 Trustee /other key persons of the judgment debtor ever
 been released on bail/anticipatory bail in the last ten
 years? 41. Whether Proprietor / Partners /Directors / Trustee /other
 key persons of the judgment debtor ever been prosecuted
 for any offence in the last ten years? 42. Whether Proprietor / Partners /Directors /Promoters /
 Trustee /other key persons of the judgment debtor ever
 been convicted for any offence in the last ten years? 43. Whether Proprietor / Partners /Directors /Promoters
 Trustee /other key persons of the judgment debtor have
 ever been declared as proclaimed offender/ proclaimed
 person in the last ten years? 44. If the answer to any of the above mentioned questions
 (S.No. 37- 43) is „Yes‟, give full particulars of the case/
 arrest/bail/detention/conviction/sentence/ punishment etc.
 and/or the name of the case. 45. Details of all litigations, disputes, claims, arbitrations
 FIR‟s, Complaints etc. pending in any Court, Tribunal,
 Forum, Authority, Arbitrator, etc. in which judgment EX.P. 275/2012& EX.P. 276/2012 Page 58 of 67 debtor is a party. Give the name of the case, name of the Court, nature of
 case, amount involved and the next date of hearing. 46. Details of all litigations, disputes, claims, arbitrations
 FIR‟s, Complaints etc. decided by any Court, Tribunal,
 Forum, Authority, Arbitrator, etc. in which judgment
 debtor was a party. Give the name of the case, name of the Court, value of
 case, amount involved and date of decision. 47. Particulars of the unsatisfied decrees/awards against the
 judgment debtor. 48. Details of loan/credit facility(s) taken from banks and
 other financial institutions in the last five years and the
 present status. 49. Name and address of the auditors and date of last audit of
 accounts 50. Do the Proprietor / Partners /Directors /Promoters/ Trustee
 of the judgment debtor intend to travel outside India? If
 yes, Give details of the visit, purpose of visit and the
 approximate expenditure on the visit. DOCUMENTS TO BE FILED ALONG WITH AFFIDAVIT

S. No. Document Description of Document 51. Statement of Account of all bank accounts
 including current, savings and DEMAT accounts
 for last three years 52. Income Tax Return(s) along with the balance
 sheets, Profit & Loss Account, statement of
 income and Annexures of the Company/Firm/Trust
 for last five years. 53. Title deeds of the immovable properties of the
 Firm/Company/Trust. 54. Documents pertaining to any pre-existing charge
 on the assets, or orders pertaining to attachment of
 assets by authorities including but not limited
 under Prevention of Money Laundering Act,
 Income Tax Act, Benami Transactions
 (Prohibition) Act and Black Money (Undisclosed
 Foreign Income and Assets) and Imposition of Tax
 Act. 55. (a) Form 26AS downloaded from the website of
 Income Tax Department for the last five
 financial years. (b) Wealth Tax Returns with all schedules and
 particulars for five years prior to abolition of
 Wealth tax. (c) Forms 3CA/3CB and 3CD, as applicable,
 pursuant to Section 44AB of the Income Tax
 Act, 1961 filed for the last five years. (d) GST/ VAT/Excise/Sales Tax registration,
 returns of the person in last ten years or from
 the date of beginning cause of action whichever
 is later. 56. Documents relating to the income from other
 sources including Lease Deed(s)/ Rent
 Agreement(s)/ License Agreement(s) in respect of
 the rental income; Interest Certificate in respect of
 the interest income; and Dividend Certificates 57. Title deeds of the immovable properties of the
 judgment debtor 58. Documents relating to the debt, share and other
 properties recoverable from the Garnishee(s). 59. Title documents relating to the properties
 transferred, alienated or parted with person or agreed EX.P. 275/2012& EX.P. 276/2012 Page 60 of 67 to be transferred between the date of the cause of
 action upto the date of filing of this affidavit. 60. Transfer documents in respect of the profit on sale
 of property/properties 61. Documents relating to the pending litigations 62. Documents relating to the decided litigations 63. Documents relating to the unsatisfied decrees/
 awards 64. Other relevant documents relating to Income and
 Assets

 Declaration: DEPONENT

Verification: DEPONENT

Verification: