For Petitioner(s) : Mr. S. Bhattacharjee, Amicus Curiae
For Respondent(s) : Mr. B. Majumder, CGC
 Mr. N. Choudhury, GA
 Mr. B. Choudhury, PP
 Mr. K. C. Mishra, Spl. PP (CBI)

 HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE S. TALAPATRA
 HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE ARINDAM LODH

 Order

30/01/2019

 Heard Mr. Samarjit Bhattacharjee, learned Amicus Curiae

appearing for the petitioners. Also heard Mr. N. Choudhury,

learned GA appearing for the State-respondents, Mr. K. C. Mishra,

learned Spl. PP appearing for the Central Bureau of Investigation

(CBI, in short) and Mr. B. Majumder, learned CGC appearing for

the Union of India-respondent. Mr. Mishra, learned Spl. PP for the CBI has submitted that by

the affidavit dated 19.12.2018 the CBI has categorically stated

that as per the order of the apex court the CBI has taken over

investigation of a large number of Ponzi Scheme Cases under

different branches of CBI located in Bhubaneswar, Kolkata, Page 2 of 4 Guwahati and Ranchi and those cases are being investigated into.

Some Ponzi Scheme Cases related to Tripura are also under

investigation by CBI Branch EO-VI, Kolkata. In compliance of the

said order of the apex court, CBI has to take over 540 local FIRs

registered by West Bengal Police, but due to acute shortage of

manpower and other resources CBI could not take over 164 FIRs

so far. They have further asserted in the said affidavit that CBI

has expressed inability to take over a good number of cases for

investigation due to shortage of manpower and other resources.

For example, out of 71 Chota Rajan Gang related cases, CBI has

not been able to take over 47 cases. Similarly, the Gauhati High

Court on 08.01.2015 has asked CBI to investigate 481 Ponzi

Scheme Cases. But due to the similar difficulties, CBI had

submitted before the apex court that the agency was not in a

position to take over investigation of the cases as referred. The

apex court was pleased to stay the direction of the Gauhati High

Court and restrict the investigation to 15 cases. In para 9 of the said affidavit, the CBI has asserted that

inadvertently it was stated in this court that the reference by the

State Government was pending before DoPT whereas it was

actually pending with the DOP (Director of Prosecution, CBI). The

CBI has clarified their position by the said affidavit. Mr. Mishra, learned Spl. PP appearing for the CBI has further

submitted that having been notified by the Government of Tripura, Page 3 of 4 the DoPT had re-referred the matter to CBI but CBI has expressed

their inability to take up further cases for investigation in Tripura

relating to the Ponzi Scheme Cases for the similar reasons. Mr.

Mishra, learned Spl. PP for CBI has produced a communication

made to him by the authorities in CBI to show that he has been

instructed to lay why CBI is unable to take up further cases, as

reflected in the said communication. It appears to this court CBI does not apparently have any

reservation in taking up the Ponzi Scheme Cases if those are

related to Rose Valley Group of Companies, but Mr. Mishra,

learned Spl. PP for CBI has clarified in this regard that the larger

criminal conspiracy as referred by the apex court in their order

may be relevant angle in the investigation of the cases of the said

company. But he is not comprehensively instructed on that aspect.

CBI has not verified FIRs to find nexus or net of the larger criminal

conspiracy. Be that as it may, it would be appropriate for this court to

invite response of Amicus Curiae over the said affidavit filed by

CBI and on the statement made by Mr. Mishra, learned Spl. PP [as

recorded in this order]. Hence, the Amicus Curiae shall file an

affidavit in response to the affidavit filed by CBI on 19.12.2018

and on the statement made by Mr. Mishra, learned Spl. PP for CBI

today in the court as reflected in this order. Page 4 of 4 Similarly, the State-respondents shall submit their response

 in respect of the affidavit filed by CBI on 19.12.2018. The Union of India-respondent is directed to facilitate or

 cause an effective dialogue between CBI and the DoPT in order to

 impress upon CBI to take up the investigation of the cases as

 referred by the State Government under Section 6 of Delhi Special

 Police Establishment Act. The Union of India-respondent shall file

 their affidavit giving an account of the suggested action. CBI shall as well file an affidavit stating clearly that while

 investigating the larger criminal conspiracy angle in the other

 Ponzi Scheme Cases relating to the Rose Valley Group of

 Companies, whether the cases originated from the territory of

 Tripura was taken care of or not. The said affidavit shall be filed

 by the stipulated date. List the matter on 28.03.2019. All the affidavits as asked for be filed before 14.03.2019.

 Copy of the order be supplied to all the counsel appearing for

 the parties in the course of the day.