This appeal filed by the assessee is directed against the order

of the learned Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals)-15, Chennai

dated 29.04.2019 and pertains to assessment year 2016-17. 2. The assessee has raised the following grounds of appeal:- 3. Brief facts of the case are that the assessee company is

engaged in the business of investment activities filed its return of

income for the assessment year 2016-17 on 17.10.2016 declaring

Nil total income. During the year under consideration, the assessee

had issued 17,500 preference shares at face value of ` 10,000/-

each to M/s. Kalpatharu Infrastructure Development Company Pvt.

Ltd. The case was taken up for scrutiny and during the course of

assessment proceedings since there is increase in share capital, the

Assessing Officer called upon the assessee to file necessary details

including allotment of preference shares etc. In response, the

assessee vide letter dated 06.12.2018 submitted that it has issued

17,500 preference shares with face value of each ` 10,000/- to

M/s. Kalpatharu Infrastructure Development Company Pvt. Ltd. for 4 ITA No.1816/Chny/2019 a total consideration of `17.50 crores and such share capital has

been raised to repay the existing loan liability of the company. The

assessee further submitted that provisions of section 56(2)(viib) of

the Act, has no application, because the assessee has not issued

shares at premium over and above face value of such shares.

Therefore, there is no question of application of provisions of section

56(2)(viib) of the Act, to consider excess consideration as income of

the assessee. The Assessing Officer, however, was not convinced

with the explanation of the assessee and according to him,

transactions between the assessee and M/s. Kalpatharu

Infrastructure Development Company Pvt. Ltd. is not a simple

commercial transaction of raising share capital, because the

assessee has issued preference shares at face value of `10,000/-

per share, whereas face value of equity shares was fixed at `10/-

per share. Further, fair market value of share as on date of issue

was at Rs. 4.73, which is far lower than the face value fixed by the

assessee. The Assessing Officer further noted that although the

provisions of Companies Act, 2013 requires to specify the purpose

of issue of preference shares and also requires basis for fixation

price, but the assessee has not substantiated face value of 5 ITA No.1816/Chny/2019 preference shares at `10,000/- per share, when the asset base of

the company is not supporting such valuation. The Assessing

Officer further was of the opinion that the assessee has also failed to

furnish confirmation letter from person who has invested in share

capital. The Assessing Officer has discussed the issue at length in

light of shareholding pattern of the assessee company and investor

company and their business relationship to come to the conclusion

that the assessee has not established that transaction is commercial

transaction which passed the test of genuineness in order to simply

consider under the provisions of section 56(2)(viib) of the Act.

Therefore, he opined that excess consideration received on

allotment of preference shares over and above fair market value of

shares as on date of allotment is unexplained income of the

assessee and accordingly, brought to tax u/s.56(2)(viib) of the Act. 4. Being aggrieved by the assessment order, the assessee

preferred an appeal before the learned CIT(A) . Before the learned

CIT(A), the assessee reiterated its submissions made before the

Assessing Officer and argued that the provisions of section

56(2)(viib) of the Act has no application when shares are issued at 6 ITA No.1816/Chny/2019 face value, therefore, merely for the reason that face value of

preference shares is higher than fair market value of shares as per

book value, the Assessing Officer cannot consider it as sham

transaction and further, cannot hold that assessee has structured

transaction to circumvent the provisions of section 56(2)(viib) of the

Act. The learned CIT(A), after considering relevant submissions of

the assessee and also by analysis of the financials of assessee

company came to the conclusion that receipt of share capital by

allotment of preference shares with face value of `10,000/- per

share is not based on realistic valuation and therefore, genuineness

of the same is doubtful and unacceptable. The learned CIT(A)

further noted that from the financials submitted by the assessee

shares were overvalued at the time of allotment of share capital

without considering the actual potential of the company. The learned

CIT(A) has discussed the issue at length in light of various facts

including financials of the company and held that assessee has

artificially enhanced face value of preference shares to circumvent

the provisions of section 56(2)(viib) of the Act and hence, it can be

fairly held that transactions between the assessee and the investor

for raising share capital is not a commercial transaction but a sham 7 ITA No.1816/Chny/2019 transaction to overcome the tax liability on account of excess

amount received for allotment of shares. Therefore, he opined that

excess consideration received in the form of share capital over and

above fair market value has to be assessed u/s. 56(2)(viib) of the

Act. Aggrieved by the learned CIT(A) order, the assessee is in

appeal before us. 5. The learned AR for the assessee submitted that learned CIT(A)

has erred in law, facts and circumstances of the case while

confirming additions made by the Assessing Officer towards

consideration received for allotment of preference shares over and

above fair market value of shares as on date of value without

appreciating the fact that the provisions of section 56(2)(viib) of the

Act will come into operation only in a case where shares has been

issued at a premium over and above face value of such shares. The

AR further submitted that in this case assessee has issued non-

convertible cumulative preference shares with face value of `

10,000/- each without any premium, therefore, question of

application of the provisions of section 56(2)(viib) of the Act is

misplaced. He further submitted that although the Assessing Officer

has given various reasons to consider transactions of issue of 8 ITA No.1816/Chny/2019 shares is not a commercial transaction, but if you consider the

manner in which share capital has been raised by assessee and

purpose of raising share capital there should not be any doubt of

whatsoever as considered by the Assessing Officer, because

assessee has fulfilled all conditions prescribed under the Companies

Act, 2013 and rules made thereunder for issue of preference shares.

The assessee has also furnished necessary evidences including

financials of subscriber to share capital and explained that

transaction between the parties is a genuine commercial transaction

and purpose of issue of shares is to clear existing debt of the

company. Further, the assessee has redeemed preference shares

in subsequent financial year out of call option money received,

therefore, reasons given by the Assessing Officer to arrive at a

conclusion that transaction is not a simple commercial transaction is

purely on suspicious and surmises manner without any evidences. 6. The learned DR, on the other hand, supporting the order of

learned CIT(A) submitted that the Assessing Officer as well as

learned CIT(A) has brought out various facts to come to the

conclusion that transaction of issue of preference shares is not a 9 ITA No.1816/Chny/2019 commercial transaction between the parties, but an arranged

transaction to circumvent the provisions of section 56(2)(viib) of the

Act. Therefore, arguments of the assessee that it is a genuine

transaction for raising share capital for the purpose of business of

the company are incorrect. The learned DR drew our attention to

page 22 of the paper book 1, in which under Note 13, the assessee

has made disclosure about regulatory investigation in 2G scam and

PMLA and argued that the assessee is part of 2G scam and the

assessee had investment in M/s.Deccan Digital Networks Pvt.Ltd. to

the extent of 74% of equity share capital, which in turn held 35%

share capital of Aircel Ltd. From the above, it is clear that entire

preference shares transaction is sham transaction. The DR further

submitted that it is surprising how a company having negative

results received funds from M/s. Kalpatharu Infrastructure

Development Company Pvt. Ltd. by paying such a huge value for

preference shares without any support of asset or business. The

DR further submitted that manner in which preference shares are

issued and conditions of issue of shares give rise to various doubts

and hence, reasoning given by authorities below including learned

CIT(A) are on sound footing, which clearly shows that transaction of 10 ITA No.1816/Chny/2019 issue of preference shares is sham transaction and accordingly,

invoked the provisions of section 56(2)(viib) of the Act. 7. Per contra, the learned A.R for the assessee submitted that

although the learned DR referred to regulatory investigation under

2G scam and PMLA, but it is neither the contention of the Assessing

Officer nor learned CIT(A) that transaction is sham. Further, the

Hon'ble Supreme Court decision in the case of McDowell's is on

impermissible tax avoidance arrangements and the same is not

applicable to the case of the assessee, because the assessee has

merely issued preference shares at par and redeemed the same at

cost in the next year. The AR further submitted that the allegation of

the learned DR that share price fixed for issue of preference shares

is not backed by any asset / business of the assessee is incorrect,

because the assessee has issued preference shares to M/s.

Kalpatharu Infrastructure Development Company Pvt. Ltd. in order

to raise funds to repay loan from Directors, who had settled dues to

bank which originally funded the investment made by the assessee

in equity shares of M/s.Deccan Digital Networks Pvt. Ltd. Therefore,

it is incorrect to say that assessee has structured transaction to

circumvent the provisions of section 56(2)(viib) of the Act. 11 ITA No.1816/Chny/2019 8. We have heard both the parties, perused the material available

on record and gone through orders of the authorities below. The

Assessing Officer has made additions towards excess consideration

received for allotment of preference shares over and above fair

market value of such shares as on the date of issue on the ground

that assessee has not explained and filed necessary evidence to

justify face value of preference shares at ` 10,000/- per share.

Therefore, in order to verify the issue, it is necessary to consider the

provisions of section 56(2)(viib) of the Act and its application to the

relevant transactions. The provisions of section 56(2)(viib) of the Act

was introduced by Finance Act, 2012 w.e.f. 01.04.2013 to bring into

tax consideration for issue of shares that exceeds face value of such

shares as income of the assessee. A plain reading of section

56(2)(viib) makes it very clear that if a company in which public are

not substantially interested issued share capital and received

consideration in excess of face value of such shares, then

aggregate consideration received over and above fair market value

of such shares is assessable as income of the assessee. In other

words, in order to invoke section 56(2)(viib) of the Act, shares

should be issued over and above face value of such shares. In this 12 ITA No.1816/Chny/2019 case, the assessee has issued shares at face value of `10,000/- per

share. Therefore, in a simple term the provisions of section

56(2)(viib) has no application, if shares are not issued with premium.

But, the case of the Assessing Officer was that it is not a case of

simple commercial transaction between the parties, but a

transaction arranged to circumvent the provisions of section

56(2)(viib) of the Act. The Assessing Officer, to arrive at such

conclusion has given various reasons including the manner in which

such shares were issued and terms & conditions of issue of such

shares. Therefore, it is essential to see whether transaction of issue

of preference shares is commercial transaction between two prudent

persons or a sham transaction arranged by parties to overcome the

provisions of section 56(2)(viib) of the Act. 9. The assessee has issued 17,500 preference shares at face

value of ` 10,000/- each in financial year 2015-16 to M/s.

Kalpatharu Infrastructure Development Company Pvt. Ltd.

Admittedly, the assessee and M/s. KIDCO are related parties,

because both the companies are having common directors and

functioning in same premises. Further, assessee share capital was 13 ITA No.1816/Chny/2019 originally consisting of equity shares alone, however, assessee has

amended its share capital clause in Memorandum of Association

vide AGM held on 2.1.2014, where share capital has been divided

into equity shares and preference shares. Further, the assessee has

retained face value of equity shares at `10/- per share, but face

value of preference shares has been fixed at ` 10,000/- per share.

Admittedly, at the time amendment to share capital and also at the

time of issue of preference shares, net worth of assessee company

was negative, which is evident from the fact that the Assessing

Officer has computed negative face value of `-4.73 per share.

Therefore, in this factual background, if you examine the

amendment carried out to share capital clause and fixation of face

value of 10,000 equity shares, certainly doubt arises about the

manner in which such share capital was amended and face value of

preference shares was fixed. Admittedly, except certain privileges

including first preference over dividend and repayment of capital,

there are no special privileges to preference shareholders.

Therefore, while examining allotment of preference shares, this

factor needs to be considered. Moreover, provisions of section 55 of

the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 9 of Companies (Share capital 14 ITA No.1816/Chny/2019 and Debentures) Rules, 2014 deals with issue and redemption of

preference shares, as per which before issue of preference shares

assessee should specify purpose of issue of preference shares and

also justify the value of such shares. In this case, the assessee has

justified purpose of issue of preference shares as per which

preference share capital was raised to repay the existing debt of the

company, but the assessee has not explained the basis for fixing

face value of preference shares at `10,000/- per share, although

Rule 9 of Companies (Share capital and Debentures) Rules, 2014

says so. Therefore, it is very essential to decide whether assessee

has justified basis of fixing share price of preference shares

at`10,000/- or not, more particularly, when the financials of the

company was not supporting such valuation. Admittedly, the

assessee was having negative net worth and there is no significant

business activity except investments in equity shares of M/s.Deccan

Digital Networks Pvt. Ltd. In fact, a major share capital of the

company has been invested in M/s.Deccan Digital Networks Pvt.Ltd.

Further, M/s.Deccan Digital Networks Pvt. Ltd had invested in equity

shares of M/s. Aircel Ltd. It is an admitted fact that that Aircel Ltd. is

almost a defunct company. Further, it is well known fact that 15 ITA No.1816/Chny/2019 investment of Assessee Company in the shares of M/s.Deccan

Digital Networks Pvt. Ltd is not having any value or valuation.

Therefore, under these circumstances, fixing share price at

`10,000/-per preference share is not based on any scientific method

or method prescribed under Rule 11UA of Income Tax Rules, 1962.

Further, the assessee has not filed any valuation report or evidence

to justify value of shares. The assessee has also not explained basis

for fixing different share price for equity shares and preference

shares. The assessee has also not filed any evidence to explain

how a prudent businessman would invest in a company, where its

net worth is negative and book value of shares is far less than the

face value of preference shares. Therefore, under these

circumstances, it is very difficult to accept the arguments of the

assessee that transaction of issue of preference shares is a normal

commercial transaction and purpose of raising capital is for genuine

business purpose of the company. We, further, are of the

considered view that from sequent of events and manner in which

preference share capital was raised, including terms of repayment,

rate of return and period of shares, it can be easily concluded that

transaction of issue of preference share capital is arranged 16 ITA No.1816/Chny/2019 transaction in the nature of sham transaction to overcome the

amended provisions of section 56(2)(viib) of the Income Tax Act,

1961. In this regard it is very essential to recollect the land mark

decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Mc Dowell & Co

Ltd. Vs Commercial tax Officer(1985) 154 ITR 148, where it was

held that the tax planning may be legitimate provided it is within the framework

of law. Colourable devices cannot be part of tax planning and it is wrong to

encourage or entertain the belief that it is honourable to avoid the payment of

tax by restoring to dubious methods. It is the obligation of every citizen to pay

the taxes honestly without resorting to subterfuges. Courts are now concerning

themselves not merely with the genuineness of a transaction, but with the

intended effect of it for fiscal purposes. No one can now get away with a tax

avoidance project with the mere statement that there is nothing illegal about it.

The Hon'ble Court further observed that it is neither fair nor desirable to expect

the Legislature to intervene and take care of every device and scheme to avoid

taxation. It is up to the Court to take stock to determine the nature of the new

and sophisticated legal devices to avoid tax and consider whether the situation

created by the devices could be related to the existing legislation with the aid of

'emerging' techniques of interpretation was done in Ramsay, Burma Oil and

Dawson, to expose the devices for what they really are and to refuse to give

judicial benediction. ITA No.1816/Chny/2019 10. In this view of the matter and considering facts and

circumstances of the case, we are of the considered view that

assessee has failed to explain and justify issue of preference shares

with a face value of `10,000/- per share when the fair market value

of the shares of the company is `-4.73 per share. Therefore, we

are of the considered opinion that the reasons given by the

Assessing Officer to treat the transaction as a colurable device to

circumvent the provisions of section 56(2)(viib) of the Act, appears

to be on sound footing. Hence, we are inclined to uphold the order of

the learned CIT(A) in upholding additions made towards excess

consideration received towards allotment of preference shares over

and above the fair market value of shares under section 56(2)(viib) of the Act and dismiss appeal filed by the assessee. 11. In the result, appeal filed by the assessee is dismissed. Order pronounced in the open court on 4th March, 2021

 Sd/- Sd/-