All these Review Petitions seek to recall a

 Coordinate Bench order dated 31.07.2012 whereby

 petitioners' FAO No.177 of 2011 filed under Section 24-C of

 the Orissa Education Act, 1969 has been dismissed. In the

 said FAO, a challenge was laid to the order dated 15.03.2011

 passed by the State Education Tribunal, Bhubaneswar in

 their GIA Case No.36 of 2004 was negatived. In the said GIA

 filed under Section 24B, they had sought for a direction to Page 3 of 18 the official OPs to approve their appointment and to release

the necessary Grant-in-Aid in their favour from the dates of

their entitlement. 2. A brief fact matrix of the case: teaching posts. However, OP Nos.4 to 14 (in REVWPET No.

234 of 2012), in connivance with a section of the

Management fabricated certain records to portray their

appointment to the posts in question. This, they did hand in

glove with OP Nos.1 to 3, as well. They had filed OJC

No.10891 of 2001 seeking a direction to the Director of High

Education for the approval of their appointments and release

of Grant-in-Aid. The Director having favoured their claim,

petitioners had filed GIA Case No.36 of 2004, which came to

be negatived by the Tribunal vide order dated 15.03.2011.

That was the subject matter of further challenge in FAO

No.177 of 2011. A Coordinate Bench of this Court dismissed

the said FAO by the order that is sought to be recalled in

these Review Petitions. 3. Contentions of the parties: The matter relating to the dispute is liable to be res judicated

because of the lis having been attained finality in the earlier

rounds of litigations. The Tribunal upheld the contention of

OPs and dismissed the subject GIA Case vide order dated

15.03.2011. The challenge to said order has been negatived

by the Coordinate Bench by the order now put in review. 4. At the suggestion of learned counsel appearing for

the parties, all these Review Petitions were taken up for final

hearing together, since common questions of law and facts

are involved. I have heard learned counsel appearing for the

parties. I have perused pleadings and the records. I have also

duly adverted to the provisions of law and to relevant of the Page 7 of 18 rulings cited at the Bar. In fact, it was too long a hearing.

Since intricacies were involved, the petitions were reserved

for judgment. Having done on that, this Court declines

indulgence in the matter for the following reasons: The grand rule is, the adjudicatory bodies become functus

officio once the cause brought before them is resolved finally,

subject to all just exceptions. Existence per se is no ground Page 8 of 18 for exercise. There are frugal case laws wherein the review is

undertaken in the exercise of inherent power, if such power

is granted or recognized by the statute. Added, the existence

of review power is one thing and its exercise is another. All

this is a prelude to the discussion infra. (b) The vehement submission of learned Senior

Advocate Mr. Routray and learned counsel Mr. Das that this

Court has, as of necessity, the power of review in matters like

this, is bit difficult to countenance and reasons for this are

not far to seek: section (5) of Section 24-B of the 1969, Act which reads as
under: This provision excludes the application of CPC and enables
the Tribunal to have its own procedure subject to the Rules
that may be promulgated by the Government, for regulating
the procedure. The text & context makes the legislative intent
as clear as Gangetic waters that the CPC is not applicable
and as a corollary of this the provisions of Order XLVII of
CPC are also not applicable. The contention of Mr. Das that
the application of CPC is excluded for the proceedings before
the Tribunal only and therefore, such statutory exclusion is
not intended by the legislature largely accords with the
maxim expressio unius est exclusio alterius (r). This Page 10 of 18 contention is difficult to countenance. The very maxim
involves too broad a generalization and therefore, cannot be
readily invoked when intent of the legislature runs counter to
it. 'Legal Maxims' by Herbert Broom, 10th Edition at page 444
says as under: (c) Petitioners' counsel vehemently submitted that under Article 225 of Constitution of India read with Letters Patent,

a set of Rules have been promulgated. Under Part-II of the

Rules of High Court of Orissa, 1948, Chapters-VII & VIII

appear; they inter alia provide for review; the text of Clause-

11 speaks of review in so many words. This submission does

not merit acceptance and reasons are obvious: Whatever be

their genesis, these Rules are of general character/nature

qua the provisions of 1969 Act and the Orissa Education

(Tribunal) Rules, 1977 which are a piece of special law. Mr.

Lenka is right in telling the Court that the law enacted in Sections 24-A , 24-B & 24-C in 1969 Act creates a special Page 11 of 18 machinery for adjudication of peculiar disputes and

therefore, the legislature in its wisdom has prescribed a

special procedure to be adopted in the adjudicatory process.

The maxim "generalibus specialibus non derogant" is as old as

mountains. Law reports are replete with the proposition that

the special law overrides the general law. Contention of

petitioners, if countenanced, would run counter to the

jurisprudential principle of centuries. (d) The last contention of the petitioners as to

maintainability of Review Petitions is that the Tribunal has

inherent power under Rule 26 of 1977 Rules and that would

include power of review. The said Rule reads as under: True it is, that in seldom cases that involve fraud/fabrication,

Courts & Tribunals recall their orders in their inherent

power. However, there is a subtle difference between 'power

to recall' and the 'power to review', although arguably they

are not poles apart. It was Lord Edward Coke who roared Page 12 of 18 centuries ago that "Fraud avoids all judicial

acts, ecclesiastical or temporal," establishing that any

judgment or decree obtained through fraudulent means is a

nullity, or legally nonexistent, and can be challenged in any

court. He also noted the concept of six "marks" or

"presumptions" of fraud, drawn from Roman law. It is on that

premise, Courts & Tribunals recall orders that are snatched

by fraud/fabrication essentially perpetrated on them. It is on

the principle of ex debito justitiae. However, that is not the

case here. (e) Learned Senior Advocate Mr. Routray drew

attention of the Court to the following rulings in support of

his contention that review is admissible at the hands of

Tribunal and therefore, the appeal proceedings being

continuation of the same, the review power should avail to

this Court as a corollary of that. In support of said

proposition he pressed into service the following decisions: The first two rulings do not discuss the power of review

under the provisions of 1969 Act or a pari materia statute. It

hardly needs to be stated that a decision is an authority for

the proposition laid down in a given fact matrix, and not for

all that which logically follows from what has been so laid

down vide Lord Halsbury in Quinn v. Leathem,1. The third

decision arose under the provisions of law relating to debt

recovery, that is, popularly known as DRT Act . The purpose

& policy content of this Act and of the 1969 Act are miles

away from each other. Merely because certain provisions

relating to dispute resolution machinery have textual

resemblance, that per se would not make the Rule of pari

materia readily applicable. 4.2. As to merits of the matter: Ordinarily, the First Appeal as the one at the hands of

Tribunal has wide scope of examination both on law and

facts. Though Section 24-C does not in so many words say of

Second Appeal, it is indisputable that it is a Second Appeal.

Ordinarily, the scope of Second Appeal is not as wide as the

First Appeal. This position does not change merely because

the provision does not say about substantial question of law

as enacted in Section 100 of CPC or question of law, either.

Therefore, appeal is both on law & facts, though the

examination is comparatively restrictive. (b) The Tribunal was invoked by the review petitioners

in GIA Case No.36 of 2004 under Section 24-B of 1969 Act

seeking a direction for approval of their appointment and 2 AIR 1994 SC 853 Page 15 of 18 consequential release of Grant-in-Aid. The Tribunal, having

considered rival contentions of the parties, negatived the GIA

Case vide order dated 15.03.2012. At paragraph 6 of the

order, it is observed as under: (c) The above order of the Tribunal was put in challenge by

the petitioners in FAO No.177 of 2011 and the Coordinate

Bench having examined all aspects of the matter penned the

order dated 31.07.2012 running into 8½ pages. A perusal of

the same shows that learned Judge treated the matter more Page 16 of 18 than the usual, though the Second Appeal has its own

limitations. At paragraph 7 what was the prayer in OJC

No.880 of 1991 filed by Mr. Satrughna Jena is stated and it

reads as under: (d) The Division Bench while dismissing the said OJC vide

order dated 02.02.1996 observed as under: As long as the above findings which are decades old remain

 on record, this Court is at a loss to know, what purpose

 would be served by keeping these Review Petitions of 2012

 pending any longer. In any circumstance, as rightly

 contended by Mr. Lenka, this Court cannot treat the Review

 Petitions as if they are appeals. In the above circumstances, these Review Petitions
 being devoid of merits and also lacking maintainability are
 liable to be dismissed and accordingly they are, costs having
 been reluctantly made easy. ....................................
 Dixit Krishna Shripad,
 Judge Signature Not Verified Orissa High Court, Cuttack, Digitally Signed Signed by:ThePRASANT KUMAR2025/Prasant
 25th August, SAHOO
Reason: Authentication
Location: Orissa High Court
Date: 25-Aug-2025 20:31:30 Page 18 of 18