Shri M.P.Agrawal, Advocate for respondents No. 4 to 6.
 By this petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of
India, petitioner has approached this Court with the relief in the
form of direction to respondents/police authorities to register an
offence on the complaint made by petitioner (Annexure P/1)
 On notices being issued, respondents put their appearance
through counsel and filed their respective counter affidavit. Learned counsel for respondents No. 4 to 6 submits that
the nature of allegations made in the complaint in fact and in
effect are in the realm of civil dispute and no criminality is
involved in the matter as the dispute relates to entries in demat
account which can always be reconciled by taking recourse to
the bank record of documents and if the petitioner is still
aggrieved by the reconciliation, she can always approach the
arbitration for resolution of any dispute as regards the entires in
the demat account and consequential mandatory claim, if any. Contravention the aforesaid submissions, learned counsel
for the petitioner submitted that as a matter of fact the credit
shown in the demat account was to the extent of rupees eight
crores fifty six lacs; however, suddenly, the amount shown in the
amount reduced to nil in a span of three years from September, 2 W.P.No. 4563/2013 2010 to September, 2013 without any knowledge and
information to the petitioner. It is submitted that it is a case of
fraud and forgery committed with the demat account of the
petitioner. She is subjected to serious loss of money for no
justification and therefore, there is an element of criminality
involved in the management of demat account by respondents-
bank. Hence, the allegations made in the complaint required to
be addressed by way of investigation by the police. Respondents No. 1 to 3/State have denied allegations that
respondents are not taking any action over the complaint made
by the petitioner. It is submitted that as per directives issued by
Hon. Supreme Court in Lalita Kumar's case they first have to
ascertain the relevancy and irrelevancy of the allegations so
made and thereafter apply their mind as to whether on the
complaint so made investigation is required or not. In the present
case the complaint is at the stage of enquiry, hence, no malice
or motive can be attributed against the police authorities. Having heard learned counsel for the parties, in the
opinion of this Court at this stage this Court refrains from
commenting upon the rival contentions, instead the entire matter
is made over to the Superintendent of Police,
Gwalior/respondent No.2 to either himself or direct any
competent responsible officer to look into the complaint filed by
the petitioner and if need be, notice may be issued to respondent- bank for consideration of complaint and thereafter take a
 decision as regards relevancy and irrelevancy of the nature of
 allegations made in the complaint as well as, as to whether the
 allegations so made give rise to a civil liability or criminal
 liability and thereafter proceed to take action in light of decision
 of Hon. Supreme Court in the case of Lalita Kumari Vs.
 Government of U.P. , 2013 (5) MPHT 336 (SC). Let the
 aforesaid exercise be completed within three months from the
 date of communication of certified copy of order passed today. With the aforesaid direction and observance, writ petition
 stands disposed of.