Instant appeals by the Department are emanating from the impugned

order dated 30/07/2024, passed by the learned Commissioner of Income Tax

(Appeals), National Faceless Appeal Centre, Delhi, ["learned CIT(A)"], for the

assessment year 2014-15, 2015-16 and 2016-17. For the assessment year 2014-15, the Revenue has raised following

grounds of appeal:- For the assessment year 2015-16, the assessee raised following

grounds of appeal:- For the assessment year 2016-17, the assessee raised following

grounds of appeal:- 2. Since the matter in these appeals are identical, ITA no.524/Nag./2024,

for the assessment year 2014-15 is taken as lead case to decide and

adjudicate in the present dispute, the decision of which shall mutatis

mutandis apply to the remaining appeals as well. ITA no.524/Nag./2024
 Revenue's Appeal - A.Y. 2014-15 3. The facts of the case are that the genuineness of sale and purchase of

the shares were examined by the Assessing Officer during original 5 Naresh Laxminarayan Grover
 ITA no.524, 525 & 526/Nag./2024

assessment proceedings. The assessee submitted all relevant details before

the Assessing Officer. The assessee was of the view that the action of the

Assessing Officer in re-opening the assessment amounts to 'mere change of

opinion'. Further, reasons for re-opening do not indicate that the Assessing

Officer was in possession of any fresh or new material. Thus, according to the

assessee, the re-opening is, therefore, illegal. 4. The Assessing Officer added back ` 3,11,34,325 under section 68 of the

Income Tax Act, 1961 ("the Act") holding short term capital gain considered

to be not genuine. 5. During first appeal proceedings, the learned CIT(A) granted relief by

holding as follows:- Similarly, Hon'ble Bombay High Court in the case Principal Commissioner of
Income Tax-31, Mumbai vs Indravadan Jain, HUF, ITA No. 454 OF 2018, dated
12/07/2023, has held: Naresh Laxminarayan Grover
 ITA no.524, 525 & 526/Nag./2024

I further find that the Appellant has also placed reliance on various decisions
of Hon'ble ITAT Bombay, wherein, on identical facts relief has been allowed to
the assessee. In the case of Mrs Pallavi Mayur Gandhi vs ITO, ITA
No.2251/Mum/2022 dated 19/04/2023, the Hon'ble Tribunal has, thus, held as
under: 14. The Hon'ble Jurisdictional High Court has considered an identical issue in
yet another case of PCIT vs. Ziauddin A Siddique (Income tax Appeal No. 2012
of 2017 dated 4th March, 2022) and and relevant discussions ARD made by
Hon'ble Bombay High Court are extracted below:- 15. We notice that the identical allegation of non-genuine long term capital
gains generated on sale of M/s Shreenath Commercial & Finance Ltd was
examined by the co-ordinate bench in the case of Mr Ripu Sudan Kundra vs.
ITO (ITA No.2792/Mum/2018 dated 05-10-2021), wherein it was held as
under:- 16. In the instant case also, we noticed that the AO has simply relied upon the
 report of the investigation department and held that the long term capital
 gains declared by the assessee are not genuine. No other material was
 brought on record by the AO to prove that the assessee has indeed availed
 only accommodation entries. We noticed that the assessee has furnished all
 documents relating to purchase and sale of securities. The shares have
 entered and exited his demat account. The purchase and sale transactions
 have been routed through the bank accounts of the assessee. All these
 documentary evidences produced by the assessee have not been disproved.
 We also notice that the assessee has asked for opportunity of cross
 examination of the parties, whose statements were relied upon by the AO, but
 same was not provided. Hence the AO could not have placed reliance on those
 statements. On the conspectus of the matter, we are of the view that the
 decision rendered by the jurisdictional Hon'ble Bombay High Court in the
 above said case of Shyam R Pawar (supra) and Ziauddin A Siddique (supra)
 are squarely applicable to the facts of the present case. Accordingly, we set
 the order passed by Ld CIT(A) on the grounds raised on merits and direct the
 AO to delete the addition of long term capital gains. 17. The assessee has also raised a ground challenging the validity of
 reopening of assessment. Since we have deleted the addition on merits, this
 legal ground becomes academic in nature and accordingly we leave the same
 open and decline to adjudicate the same. 18. In the result, the appeal filed by the assessee is allowed." Thus, un view of the facts discussed hereinabove and respectfully following
 Thus, in view of the decisions of Hon'ble Jurisdictional Bombay High Court in
 the cases Ziauddin A Siddique (supra) and Indravadan Jain HUF (supra), I
 hold that the short term capital gain of Rs.3,11,34,325/- earned by the
 Appellant is genuine. Accordingly, I hold that the AO has erred in disregarding
 this transaction of STCG and adding the amount of Rs.3,11,34,325/- u/s 68 of
 the Act. Ground is, thus, allowed." 6. Before us, the learned Departmental Representative relied on the

assessment order passed by the Assessing Officer and prayed that the

impugned order passed by the learned CIT(A) be reversed. He submitted that

the transactions are colourable device and corporate vial may be lifted. 7. Per-contra, the learned Authorised Representative for the assessee

submitted a detailed synopsis and prayed that the impugned order passed by

the learned CIT(A) be upheld. He meticulously took us through the 12 Naresh Laxminarayan Grover
 ITA no.524, 525 & 526/Nag./2024

submissions in the Paper Book and harped upon the fact that the clean cheat

is extended by Security Exchange Board of India (SEBI). The synopsis is

reproduced below for reference:- 1. Based on the information received from Ministry of Corporate Affairs, SEBI
 has undertaken detailed investigation in Iris Media Works Ltd. Under Sections
 11(1) , 11(4) , 11(4A) , 11A, 118(1) , 11B(2) read with Section 15HA and 15HB of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 read with Rule 5 of
 the SEBI (Procedure for Holding Inquiry and Imposing Penalties) Rules, 1995
 and Sections 12A(1) , 12A(2) read with Section 23E and 23H of Securities
 Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 read with Rule 5 of the Securities Contracts
 (Regulation) (Procedure for Holding Inquiry and Imposing Penalties) Rules,
 2005. A copy of the Final Order of SEBI dated November 17, 2021 is attached
 as Annexure-A. 2. As part of its adjudication of Iris Media Works Ltd, SEBI had issued notices
 to the company, all its directors, and its auditors. Further, the Bombay Stock
 Exchange had ordered a detailed Forensic Audit Report of the company's
 financial statements for F.Y. 2015-16 and F.Y. 2016-17. It must be noted that
 the investigation done into Iris Media Works Ltd. was only for F.Y. 2015-16
 and F.Y. 2016-17 and whereas assessee had invested into the company from
 23/09/2013 to 27/03/2014 - hence all in F.Y. 2013-14. 3. Thus, the list issued by MCA placing Iris Media Works Ltd. in SFIO category - is only pertaining to its operations in F.Y. 2015-16 and F.Y. 2016-17-the
 period for which Forensic Audit Report was done. And whereas, the assessee
 was not invested in the company at that time. Thus, this contention of the
 Revenue is not correct and does not apply to the assessee's case. 4. Further, it must be noted that SEBI has in fact by its final order dated 17
 November 2021 clearly stated that there has been no price manipulation in
 the script of Iris Media Works Ltd. Paragraph 38 of the order is reproduced
 below- 5. It is thus evidently clear and confirmed by SEBI, the statutory authority on
market regulation, that there is no price manipulation in the shares of Iris. In
fact, SEBI cleared the company of all wrongdoing under the Securities and
Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices
relating to Securities Market) Regulations, 2003-and allowed the trading of the
scrip on the stock exchanges. In fact, Iris Media Works Ltd., now known as
WinPro Industries Ltd. -continues to trade on the stock exchanges to this day. 6. The contention of the Revenue that the Short Term Capital Gain earned by
trading in shares of Iris Media Works Ltd is bogus/sham is completely
unfounded and without any proof. The same has been confirmed by SEBI.
Thus, the Short Term Capital Gain earned by the assessee in the script Iris
Media Works Ltd was correctly held as genuine by the Ld. CIT(A). 7. And whereas the assessee has not traded in the shares of Trinity Tradelink
Ltd. in the present financial year. This shows the non-application of mind of
the revenue in drafting these grounds of appeal and it seems they have
undertaken a copy and paste job. This ground is thus void-ab-initio and it is
prayed that it is rejected. 8. And whereas it is abundantly clear and evident that the market regulator
SEBI has done a detailed investigation into Iris Media Works Ltd and passed
final order giving a clean chit against allegations of price rigging or price
manipulation. 9. It is humbly prayed that when the principal securities market regulator,
SEBI, has confirmed that there is no price rigging, it is not tenable for the
Income Tax Department, which does not have jurisdiction under the Securities
and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade
Practices relating to Securities Market) Regulations, 2003 to identify and 14 Naresh Laxminarayan Grover
 ITA no.524, 525 & 526/Nag./2024

punish price rigging - this ground of appeal of the revenue must be rejected
and the STCG earned by the assessee in Iris Media Works Ltd be upheld as
genuine. GROUND 2-

B. "Whether on the facts and circumstances of the case, the Id. CIT(A) was
correct in allowing the short term capital gain of Rs. 3,11,34,325/ earned by
the assessee without considering the fact that Kolkata Investigation Wing has
thoroughly investigated and proven the modus operandi of conversion of
unaccounted income to counted one through penny stock by claiming bogus
LTCG and STCG Loss." 10. How the case of the appellant is not covered by investigation report of the
DDIT Inv Kolkata

a. In the instant case of the assesse, the assesse has earned SHORT TERM
CAPITAL GAINS and same is offered to tax in its return of income hence report
of DDIT Inv Kolkata is not applicable Ab Initio. b. On perusal of the Judgement, it is seen that they have relied upon the
investigation report of the DDIT Inv Kolkata wherein the detailed modus
operandi has been given in case of penny stock transaction. C. On perusal of the investigation report of the DDIT Inv Kolkata, it is seen
that modus operandi explained in the report is not applicable in case of the
assesse ab initio. As per the investigation report, the modus operandi stated,
the investors has purchased shares at minimal price and then there is sudden
rise in the price of the penny scrip which is not in ordinary course and during
the price at peak, the investors has sold their investment thereby earning
Long Term Capital Gains. Further, after such sell when prices of the penny
stock starts to fall, the investors invested during the peak then sale those
shares at low value thereby claiming either Long Term Capital Loss or Short
Term Capital Loss. d. Thus, on carefully reading and analyzing the modus operandi stated in the
investigation report, it is clearly seen that investors has transacted in penny
stock either to earn exempt LTCG or bogus LTCL / STCL. Nowhere in the
report it is stated that investors have entered the transaction to earn bogus
STCG. e. Thus, merely making assumption that since assesse has traded in the
penny stock, whatever earned, or loss incurred are bogus is bad in law and
violation of natural justice to the assesse. f. Notwithstanding above, the investigation report prepared by DCIT (Inv),
Unit II (3), Kolkata dated 27.4.2015 is further distinguishable on facts
enumerated as under which clearly shows that findings recorded in
investigation report is itself not applicable ab initio in case of the assessee: xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx 8. Thus, based on the above facts involved in case of the assessee read with
the investigation report of DDIT (Inv), Kolkata, it is clearly evident that entire 15 Naresh Laxminarayan Grover
 ITA no.524, 525 & 526/Nag./2024

investigation report is not applicable to the assessee on the basis of
distinguishable facts as stated above. 11. Additional Points for distinguished facts: 12. Following are the legal arguments in the case of the assessee - a. Hon'ble SC SLP dismissal in case of PCIT Vs Kuntala Mohapatra (Supreme
Court of India) Special Leave Petition (Civil) Diary No(S). 5269/2024 vide
order dated 04.03.2024 reaffirms the importance of adhering to principles of
natural justice in tax proceedings. It clarifies the eligibility criteria for LTCG
exemption under Section 10(38) , particularly emphasizing transactions
conducted through banking channels and stock exchanges

b. Hon'ble SC SLP dismissal in case of PCIT vs Renu Aggarwal 153
Taxmann.com 579 (SC) (03.07.2023) 456 ITR 249 (SC); approving underlying
hon'ble Allahabad high court in case of PCIT vs Renu Agarwal ITA 44/2022
order dated 06.07.2022 and underlying Lucknow ITAT order in case of ITA
205/Lkw/2020 (17.10.2022) on merits of alleged bogus LTCG/penny stock
addition

c. Hon'ble Bombay high court in case of PCIT vs Indravadan Jain, HUF INCOME
TAX APPEAL NO. 454 OF 2018 12th JULY 2023 [2023] 156 taxmann.com 605
(Bombay)

"Respondent had shown sale proceeds of shares in scrip Ramkrishna Fincap
Ltd. (RFL) as long term capital gain and claimed exemption under the Act. Respondent had claimed to have purchased this scrip at Rs.3.12/- per share in
the year 2003 and sold the same in the year 2005 for Rs.155.04/- per share.
It was A.O. 's case that investigation has revealed that the scrip was a penny
stock and the capital gain declared was held to be accommodation entries. A
broker Basant Periwal & Co. (the said broker) through whom these
transactions have been effected had appeared and it was evident that the
broker had indulged in price manipulation through synchronized and cross deal
in scrip of RFL. SEBI had also passed an order regarding irregularities and
synchronized trades carried out in the scrip of RFL by the said broker. In view
thereof, respondent's case was reopened under Section 148 of the Act. While
allowing the appeal filed by respondent, the CIT[A] deleted the addition made
under Section 68 of the Act. The CIT[A] has observed that the A.O. himself
has stated that SEBI had conducted independent enquiry in the case of the
said broker and in the scrip of RFL through whom respondent had made the
said transaction and it was conclusively proved that it was the said broker who
had inflated the price of the said scrip in RFL. The CIT[A] also did not find
anything wrong in respondent doing only one transaction with the said broker
in the scrip of RFL. The CIT[A] came to the conclusion that respondent
brought 3000 shares of RFL, on the floor of Kolkata Stock Exchange through
registered share broker. In pursuance of purchase of shares the said broker
had raised invoice and purchase price was paid by cheque and respondent's 17 Naresh Laxminarayan Grover
 ITA no.524, 525 & 526/Nag./2024

bank account has been debited. The shares were also transferred into
respondent's Demat account where it remained for more than one year. After
a period of one year the shares were sold by the said broker on various dates
in the Kolkata Stock Exchange. Pursuant to sale of shares the said broker had
also issued contract notes cum bill for sale and these contract notes and bills
were made available during the course of appellate proceedings. On the sale
of shares respondent effected delivery of shares by way of Demat instructions
slip and also received payment from Kolkata Stock Exchange. The cheque
received was deposited in respondent's bank account. In view thereof, the
CIT[A] found there was no reason to add the capital gains as unexplained cash
credit under Section 68 of the Act. The tribunal while dismissing the appeals
filed by the Revenue also observed on facts that these shares were purchased
by respondent on the floor of Stock Exchange and not from the said broker,
deliveries were taken, contract notes were issued and shares were also sold
on the floor of Stock Exchange. The ITAT therefore, in our view, rightly
concluded that there was no merit in the appeal." d. Hon'ble Bombay High Court in the recent case of PCIT vs Ziauddin A
Siddique in Income Tax Appeal No. 2012 of 2017 dated 04.03.2022 had held
as under:- "2. We have considered the impugned order with the assistance of
the learned Counsels and we have no reason to interfere. There is a finding of
fact by the Tribunal that the transaction of purchase and sale of the shares of
the alleged penny stock of shares of Ramakrishna Fincap Ltd ("RFL") is done
through stock exchange and through the registered Stock Brokers. The
payments have been made through banking channels and even Security
Transaction Tax ("STT") has also been paid. The Assessing Officer also has not
criticized the documentation involving the sale and purchase of shares. The
Tribunal has also come to a finding that there is no allegation against assessee
that it has participated in any price rigging in the market on the shares of RFL. 3. Therefore, we find nothing perverse in the order of the Tribunal. 4. Mr.
Walve placed reliance on a judgement of the Apex Court in Principal
Commissioner of Income Tax (Central)- 1 vs. NRA Iron & Steel (P) Ltd (2019)
103 taxmann.com 48 (SC) but that does not help the revenue in as much as
the facts in that case were entirely different. 5. In our view, the Tribunal has
not committed any perversity or applied incorrect principles to the given facts
and when the facts and circumstances are properly analysed and correct test
is applied to decide the issue at hand, then, we do not think that question as
pressed raises any substantial question of law. 6. The appeal is devoid of
merits and it is dismissed with no order as to costs." e. Mumbai bench ITAT in case of YOGESH P THAKKAR ITA 1605/Mum/2021
order dated 03.02.2023

"5.14. We find that the Id. DR had relied on the decision of Hon'ble Calcutta
High Court in the case of PCIT vs Swati Bajaj reported in 139 taxmann.com
352 which is an elaborate decision rendered after considering various
decisions of various High Courts on the subject. In the said decision, it was
held that assessee had to establish the genuineness of rise of price of shares
within a short period of time that too when general market trend was
recessive. But we find that when there are several decisions of Hon'ble
Jurisdictional High Court as stated supra are already in favour of the assessee,
the same would prevail over this tribunal and this tribunal need not take 18 Naresh Laxminarayan Grover
 ITA no.524, 525 & 526/Nag./2024

cognizance of the Hon'ble Non-Jurisdictional High Court. The law is very well
settled by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Union of India vs
Kamalakshi Finance Corporation Ltd reported in 55 ELT 43 (1991) that the
decision of Hon'ble Jurisdictional High Court would have higher precedence
value than the decision of Hon'ble Non-Jurisdictional High Court on the
Tribunal. The Hon'ble Supreme Court emphasised therein that the orders of
the Tribunal should be followed by the authorities falling within its jurisdiction
so that judicial discipline would be maintained in order to give effect to orders
of the higher appellate authorities. The Hon'ble Apex Court has observed that
utmost regard must be had by the adjudicating authorities and the appellate
authorities to the requirement of judicial discipline. Hence, we deem it fit and
appropriate to follow the decisions of Hon'ble Jurisdictional High Court referred
supra wherein the impugned issue is decided in favour of the assessee.
Moreover, when there are two conflicting decisions of various High Courts, the
Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Vegetable Products reported in 88 ITR
192 (SC) had held that Construction that is favourable to the assessee should
be adopted. Hence by following this principle, the decision of Hon'ble Calcutta
High Court and other decisions that are rendered against the assessee, need
not be followed by this Court in the peculiar facts and circumstances of the
instant case." Same in case of Pankaj Kantilal Shah ITA 576/Mum/2022 order
dated 16.06.2023. f. Mumbai Bench of ITAT in Smt. Hema Ramesh Jain vs. Income-tax Officer ITA No. 2966/Mum/2023 held in Para 10 of its order - 10. The AO has disbelieved the claim of the assessee only on the basis of the
investigation report of the department which identified the scrip of M/s.
Sunrise as a penny stock. And after taking note of the contents of the
investigation report (modus operandi) of unscrupulous entry operators, the AO
was of the opinion that the assessee is a beneficiary of such modus operandi;
and according to him, assessee has made bogus claim of LTCG, to convert her
unaccounted income to white by bringing it into regular books (accounted
income). However, we find that investigation report of department is a
general-report, which has not spelled out any wrongdoing on the part of
assessee or her broker. Therefore, the reliance made by AO on the general-
report of investigation wing cannot be accepted. Likewise, the AO has also
referred to the statement given by Shri Vipul Bhatt which also does not
contain any direct testimony to incriminate the assessee or her broker (Anand
Rathi share and stock broker Ltd) in any wrong-doing [wrongdoing as reported
in the investigation report/modus-operandi]; Further, we note that
department's case is not that the name of assessee or her broker finds
mention in the list of 83 entities/persons identified by SEBI as having acted in
concert with M/s. Sunrise and its directors to manipulate the price as given in
SEBI order dated 19.12.2014. It is not disputed that no action has been taken
by SEBI against the assessee or her broker M/s. Anand Rathi. So the reliance
placed by AO on SEBI order without linking it with assessee or her broker is
irrelevant/misplaced and erroneous. Since there is no testimony which
incriminate assessee or her broker, reliance made by AO to draw adverse view
cannot be countenanced. We note that the AO has also referred to the SEBI
report wherein according to him, the SEBI was pleased to suspend the trading
of the scrip of M/s. Sunrise for certain period. But, nothing turns on it,
because by suspending sale for some time, does not in any way link assessee
or her broker with wrongdoing or connected to Shri Vipul Bhat. We find that 19 Naresh Laxminarayan Grover
 ITA no.524, 525 & 526/Nag./2024

similar action of the AO/Ld. CIT(A) came up before this Tribunal on similar
facts and circumstances in the case of Bhavin Vaghasia v. ITO [ITA.
No.2584/Mum/2018, dated 16-6-2023) and the Tribunal vide order dated
16.06.2023 has allowed the claim of LTCG on sale of shares of M/s. Sunrise by
taking note that in that case also assessee had purchased share of M/s.
Contart Traders and after amalgamation with M/s. Sunrise, the scrips were
sold in the same manner as done in the case of the assessee; and the AO in
that case also denied claim of exempt income u/s 10(38) /LTCG on the same
reasons as done in this case. And the Tribunal allowed the claim of assessee.
Since the facts and circumstances are similar/identical, we rely on the ratio of
the decision in the case of Bhavin Vaghasia (supra) and applying the same
mutatis mutandis with the facts of the assessee's case hold that the action of
the AO cannot be sustained for the reason that there was no evidence to
suggest that the assessee had indulged in any wrong doing for making the
claim of LTCG/exemption u/s 10(38) of the Act. There is no evidence to
suggest that the assessee had any link with Shri Vipul Bhatt; and note that
the SEBI order has not made any adverse order against assessee/broker. And
the AO has not found any infirmity of the primary documents filed by assessee
to prove the purchase & sale of the shares. In such a scenario, we rely on the
decision of the Tribunal in the case Bhavin Vaghasia (supra) and allow the
appeal of the assessee on the same reason as given by this Tribunal in the
case of Bhavin Vaghasia (supra) which is reproduced as under: After such examination, SEBI found that the assessee had acquired more than
5% of total paid-up capital of Pro Fin Capital Services Ltd and failed to make
appropriate disclosure of the same fact under regulation 13(1) of
SEBI(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 (hereinafter referred to
as 'PIT Regulations') and regulation 29(1) read with 29(3) of SEBI(Substantial
Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011 (hereinafter referred
to as "SAST Regulations'). SEBI has thus imposed a fine of Rs. 15,00,000/on
the assessee for this technical violation. Order is attached as Annexure-C. 16. With reference to this adjudication order, it is brought to notice that not
only has SEBI examined all trading in the scrip of Pro Fin Capital Services Ltd
thereby verifying genuineness of all trades undertaken in it but also verified
that the shareholding of the assessee in Pro Fin Capital Services Ltd as
genuine. 17. Further, even after an examination into the trading of the scrip of Pro Fin
Capital Services Ltd, SEBI did not find anything perverse or illegal in terms of
price manipulation or rigging. 18. It is also reiterated that Pro Fin Capital Services Ltd does not feature on
any list of shell companies or penny stock and does not feature in the DDIT
(Inv) Kolkata Report. It is thus a purely legal trade, verified by SEBI as
genuine and thus the Ld. CIT(A) was correct in allowing the STCG earned by
assessee as genuine. 19. Thus it is humbly prayed that this ground of the revenue should be
rejected. GROUND 4-

D. "Whether on the facts and circumstances of the case, the Id. CITIA) was
justified in holding that the Long Term Capital Gains of the assessed were real
and genuine without analysing the incriminating circumstances in view of
dismissal of SLP by Hon'ble Apex Court in SLP (C) No. 21636/2024 on the
issue of bogus capital gains claim in penny stock transaction case and
upholding the order of the Hon'ble High Court of Calcutta in which the Hon'ble
Court has upheld the decision of Hon'ble ITAT which had relied upon the ratio
of the judgement of Hon'ble High Court of Calcutta in Swati Bajaj and others
case in which transactions of earning long term capital gains of penny stock
companies were held as bogus based on test of preponderance of probability
gathered from various circumstances like volume from trade, steep increase in
price of the equity shares not commensurate with the financial of the alleged
penny stock companies etc" 20. It is further reiterated that all trades undertaken by the assessee in all the
3 scrips were done via - Naresh Laxminarayan Grover
 ITA no.524, 525 & 526/Nag./2024

a. Banking channels via accounts declared in Income tax return for payment of
consideration to purchase shares and for receiving consideration after sale of
shares. b. Via reputed broker viz. Sharekhan Limited and Globe Capital Market Limited
both of which not investigated by SEBI not named in DDIT(Inv) Kolkata
report. c. Securities Transaction Tax paid on all transactions. d. All transactions done via Recognized Stock Exchanges viz. Bombay Stock
Exchange. 21. Thus the case of the assessee falls squarely under the SLP dismissal of
Hon'ble Supreme Court in PCIT vs. Kuntala Mohapatra SPECIAL LEAVE
PETITION (CIVIL) Diary No(s). 5269/2024 which upheld order of Hon'ble
Orissa High Court in ITA No. 23 of 2022. 22. How the case of the assessee is distinguishable with the case of PCIT vs
Swati Bajaj and others (Kolkata High Court) 446 ITR 56-

a. On perusal of the Judgement in case of Swati Bajaj it is seen that primary
fact involved in case of Swati Bajaj & Ors was that parties involved had
claimed BOGUS LONG TERM CAPITAL GAINS and same were claimed as
exempt u/s 10(3) of the Act thereby not paying any taxes on such gains.
However, in the instant case of the assessee, the assessee has earned SHORT
TERM CAPITAL GAINS and same is offered to tax in its return of income.
Accordingly, the primary fact involved in itself is different from the facts of the
case of the assessee thereby entire basis of relying upon the pronouncement
of Swati Bajaj is void ab initio and irrelevant. b. Further, on perusal of the Judgement, it is seen that they have relied upon
the investigation report of the DDIT Inv Kolkata wherein the detailed modus
operandi has been given in case of penny stock transaction. c. On perusal of the investigation report of the DDIT Inv Kolkata, it is seen
that modus operandi explained in the report is not applicable in case of the
assessee ab initio. As per the investigation report, the modus operandi stated,
the investors have purchased shares at minimal price and then there is
sudden rise in the price of the penny scrip which is not in ordinary course and
during the price at peak, the investors has sold their investment thereby
earning Long Term Capital Gains. Further, after such sell when prices of the
penny stock starts to fall, the investors invested during the peak then sale
those shares at low value thereby claiming either Long Term Capital Loss or
Short Term Capital Loss. d. Thus, on carefully reading and analyzing the modus operandi stated in the
investigation report, it is clearly seen that investors has transacted in penny
stock either to earn exempt LTCG or bogus LTCL / STCL. Nowhere in the
report it is stated that investors have entered into transaction to earn bogus
STCG. Naresh Laxminarayan Grover
 ITA no.524, 525 & 526/Nag./2024

 e. Thus, merely making assumption that since assessee has traded in the
 penny stock, whatever earned or loss incurred are bogus is bad in law and
 violation of natural justice to the assessee. f. Further, scrips traded by the assessee in the given financial year are not
 mentioned in DDIT (Inv) Kolkata report. 8. In the judgement of the Swati Bajaj, the hon'ble Court has relied upon
 investigation report and has accepted the cases where bogus LONG TERM
 CAPITAL GAINS have been earned. h. Since, the primary facts involved in the case of the assessee are completely
 distinguishable from the facts involved in the case of Swati Bajaj, the reliance
 on the judgement of Swati Bajaj shall lead to denial of natural justice to the
 assessee. i. Accordingly, no reliance can be placed on the judgement of Swati Bajaj &
 Ors as facts are completely distinguishable and different. It is thus humbly prayed that this ground of the revenue is rejected. PRAYER
 It is, therefore, most respectfully prayed to this Hon'ble Income Tax Appellate
 Tribunal 1. To pass an order dismissing this appeal of the appellant and confirming the
 order of the Ld. CIT(A), 2. To award costs as the Hon'ble Income Tax Appellate Tribunal may deem fit
 to the respondent, 3. To pass such other or further orders as this Hon'ble Income Tax Appellate
 Tribunal may deem fit and proper in the interest of justice." 8. He also submitted a Paper Book containing the below mentioned

documents and case laws relied upon. Naresh Laxminarayan Grover
 ITA no.524, 525 & 526/Nag./2024 9. We have carefully analysed the detailed contentions. The facts cited by

the Assessing Officer are illusory and baseless. It is surprising that when the

assessee has paid tax on short term capital gain under section 111A @15%,

the Assessing Officer is reclassifying the same to be taxed under section 68

r/w section 115BBE of the Act without any basis. This cavalier attitude of the

Assessing Officer cannot be countenanced in the absence of any worthwhile

enquiry. There is no scope to tinker with the well-reasoned order passed by

the learned CIT(A). The final acquittal order of the SEBI for all these three

companies are like a final nail on the coffin and dispel all doubts and

aspersions castigated by the Assessing Officer. 10. For other two assessment years, transactions were made in same

companies. But long term capital gain was generated and short term capital

loss had also crystallised. Be that as it may, there will be no difference in the

final conclusion drawn in the appeal being ITA no.524/Nag./2024, for the

assessment year 2014-15, because the evidences submitted are fairly

applicable for these years also and the Department has failed to impeach the

credibility thereof. 11. Incidentally, the tax effect in all these three appeals is below prescribed

monetary limit of ` 60 lakh. There is no allegation that the assessee is a part

of organised tax evasion involving penny stock and accommodation entry. However, keeping in mind the factual contours of the dispute and more

particularly the various binding judicial precedents and the overarching 24 Naresh Laxminarayan Grover
 ITA no.524, 525 & 526/Nag./2024

dictum of statutory authority having plenary powers, passing a detailed order

was deemed expedient in the peculiarity of the circumstances. 12. In the result, all these three appeals for the A.Y. 2014-15, 2015-16

and 2016-17 by the Department are dismissed.