JUDGMENT

Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, J

A. Factual Background .......................................................................................... 3

B Submissions of Counsel ................................................................................... 10

C. Analysis .......................................................................................................... 16

 C.1 Regulatory Framework of PFUTP Regulations .......................................... 16

 C.2 Duty to Disclose Investigative Material ...................................................... 23

 C.3. Exceptions to the Duty to Disclose............................................................ 43

D. Conclusion ...................................................................................................... 47 2 PART A

A. Factual Background

1 By a judgment dated 29 September 2020, a Division Bench of the

Bombay High Court dismissed the petition instituted by the appellant under Article 226 of the Constitution for challenging a show cause notice which was

issued by the first respondent1 alleging a violation of the provisions of the SEBI

(Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices) Regulations 20032. A

petition seeking a review of the judgment of the Division Bench was disposed of

by an order dated 22 October 2020. The appellant moved a Special Leave

Petition against the judgment in the writ petition and the order in review. The

principal issue is whether an investigation report under Regulation 9 of the

PFUTP Regulations must be disclosed to the person to whom a notice to show

cause is issued. 2 The appellant was employed as the Managing Director3 and Chief

Executive Officer4 in Ricoh India Limited5, a public listed company, for the

financial years 2012-13, 2013-14 and 2014-15, till 31 March 2015. In 2016, BSR

& Co. were appointed as statutory auditors of the Company. The auditors raised

a suspicion regarding the veracity of the financial statements of the Company for

the quarters that ended on June 30, 2015 and September 30, 2015. The Audit

Committee of the Company appointed Price Water House Coopers Private

Limited6 to carry out a forensic audit. PWC submitted a preliminary audit report

on 20 April 2016. The Company addressed a communication to the first 1 “SEBI” or the “Board” 2 “PFUTP Regulations” 3 “MD” 4 “CEO” 5 “Company” 6 “PWC” 3 PART A

respondent on the same day stating that the financial statements for those

quarters did not reflect the true affairs of the Company and requested the first

respondent to carry out an independent investigation on possible violations of the

provisions of the PFUTP Regulations. The final report submitted by PWC was

forwarded by the Company to the first respondent on 29 November 2016.

3 The first respondent initiated an investigation. During the course of the

investigation, summons was issued to Manoj Kumar (then MD & CEO for the

financial year of 2015-16), Arvind Singhal (then Chief Financial Officer) and Anil

Saini (then Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer). The Company in

its letter dated 8 June 2016 submitted that it suspected Manoj Kumar, Arvind

Singhal and Anil Saini for their involvement in misstating the financial affairs. The

first respondent in its ex parte interim order–cum–show cause notice prima facie

found two others, including the appellant, responsible for facilitating the

misstatements of the financial position. With regard to the role of the appellant, it

was noted: 4 Based on the investigation, it was noted that the financial misstatements

commenced from 2012-13 and the Company suffered a loss due to, inter alia,

transfers to third parties, write-offs and a sale made to Fourth Dimension

Solutions Limited7 without inventory. It was further noted that the share price of

the Company had gone up due to the misstatements. Hence, it was observed

that the appellant, along with five others, has prima facie violated the provisions

of Section 12A(a) , 12(A)(b) and 12A(c) of the Securities and Exchange Board of

India Act 19928 read with Regulations 3(b), 3(c), 3(d), 4(1), 4(2)(e), 4(2)(k) and

4(2)(r) of the PFUTP Regulations. Hence, the first respondent issued the

following directions under Sections 11(1) , 11(4) and 11B of the SEBI Act and Regulation 11 of the PFUTP Regulations: “FDSL” 8 “ SEBI Act ” 5 PART A

5 By his letters dated 6 June 2018 and 28 June 2018, and at a personal

hearing on June 11, 2018 the appellant submitted that: 6 By an order dated 16 August 20189, the first respondent confirmed the

directions issued in the ex parte interim order dated 12 February 2018. The order

notes that though the facts indicate large-scale irregularities in business

transactions, the time span of the irregularities and the exact role of the noticees

are not fully ascertained, and therefore, “it would be premature to give credence

to the submissions of the individual noticees”. It was also observed that “a clear

picture regarding the financial affairs of the company and the role of various

noticees in the alleged fraud is yet to emerge pending such investigation.” The

time for submission of the forensic report by the first respondent was extended to 9 “Confirmatory order” 6 PART A

30 September 2018. SEBI appointed Pipara & Co. LLP on 20 February 2019 to

conduct a forensic audit of the books of account of the Company. The report of

the forensic auditors was submitted on 25 October 2019.

7 The appellant challenged the confirmatory order before the Securities

Appellate Tribunal10, Mumbai. The appeals were allowed and the order against

the appellant was quashed on 29 January 2020 on the grounds that: The tribunal, however, directed that the first respondent is at liberty to issue a

fresh show cause notice if the evidence against the appellant is made available

through the forensic report or through the first respondent’s investigation.

8 A fresh show cause notice was issued to the appellant on 19 March 2020

under the provisions of Sections 11(1) , 11(4) , 11(4A) , 11B(1) and 11B(2) and 15HA of the SEBI Act and Section 12A(2) read with Section 23H of the Securities

Contracts (Regulation) Act 195611 based on the forensic audit report and 10 “Tribunal” 11 “SCRA” 7 PART A

investigation conducted by the first respondent. With regard to the appellant, it

was alleged that : 9 The appellant claims that he received the show cause notice by email on

4 August 2020. The appellant responded to the show cause notice on 6 August

2020 stating that though he had received the forensic audit report submitted by

Pipara & Co. LLP, he had not received the report of the investigation conducted

by SEBI. The appellant sought an opportunity to inspect the following records: The appellant was provided time until 9 August 2020 to inspect the other

documents. The first respondent enclosed soft copies of the annexures to the

forensic report and called upon the appellant to submit a reply. The appellant 8 PART A

reiterated the demand to inspect the investigation report. By an email dated 4

September 2020, the appellant was informed that the investigation report of SEBI

was not relied on to issue the show cause notice and hence, would not be

provided. 11 The appellant filed a writ petition before the Bombay High Court

challenging the show cause notice which was issued on 19 March 2020. In the

alternative, inspection of all documents relied on to issue the show cause notice

was sought. The appellant submitted before the High Court that to non-disclosure

of all relevant documents relied on to issue the show cause notice violated the

principles of natural justice. 12 By its judgment dated 29 September 2020, the High Court held that the

investigation report prepared under Regulation 9 of PFUTP Regulations is solely

for internal purposes. In concluding that the investigation report need not be

furnished while issuing a show cause notice, the High Court has relied on the

decision of this Court in Natwar Singh v. Director of Enforcement12 . In sum and

substance, the High court has held that the report does not form the basis of the

show cause notice and therefore need not be disclosed. The review petition

challenging the judgment of the Division Bench of the High Court was rejected. the investigation report and satisfaction on such consideration that

 there is a violation of the PFUTP Regulations; and (ii) a hearing. The

 purpose of the investigation report is to adjudicate whether there has

 been a contravention of the Regulations. There is no intermediate stage

 between the consideration of the report and the adjudication of liability.

 Both stages are synchronous, making the investigation report the

 primary material on which the adjudicator relies upon under the PFUTP

 Regulations; (ii) The High Court erred in holding that the investigation report is a

 preliminary report and is to be used for “internal administrative

 discipline”. The investigation report is not a preliminary document and is

 compiled at the end of a thorough and exhaustive investigation. The

 proviso to Regulation 9 , provides for an “interim report” making it clear

 that the investigation report is not a preliminary document; (iii) The investigation report is not a document to be used for internal

 deliberations, which is a stage that is crossed at Regulation 5 . The

 investigation report is to be used for adjudication of liability in terms of Regulation 10 ; (iv) The High Court erred in observing that the investigation report was not

 used against the appellant and does not form the basis of the show 10 PART B

 cause notice. The show cause notice dated 19 March 2020 contains

 several references to the investigation carried out by the first

 respondent. These allegations differ from the ones listed in an earlier

 show cause notice, which was issued to the appellant and was set

 aside by SAT on 29 January 2020 in Appeal No 427 of 2018. Further,

 the duty to disclose is not contingent on whether the respondent relies

 on a document; rather the duty is invoked when a request made for a

 document is found to be reasonable and relevant for the defence to be

 mounted by the noticee; (v) Regulation 10 mandates that the entire investigation report be

 disclosed to the noticee. This mandate can only be subject to certain

 well-recognized exceptions. Such exceptions must be invoked with the

 utmost circumspection by SEBI and for reasons that are recorded in

 writing; (vi) The decision of this Court in Natwar Singh (supra) supports the

 principle that material relied upon in a quasi-judicial proceeding must

 be disclosed to the person to whose prejudice such material may be

 used for taking adverse action; (vii) In Khudiram Das v. State of West Bengal13 , this Court held that once

 a statute prescribes reliance on certain material, such material should

 be disclosed to the opposite party. This principle has been followed in

 multiple contexts, including proceedings under the Companies Act 1956

 and Special Courts Act 1979; 13 (1975) 2 SCC 81 11 PART B (viii) If the entire investigation report is not provided, it would be difficult to

 come up with a metric for determining which parts of the report are

 relevant to the noticee; (ix) Permitting the respondent to selectively disclose portions of the

 investigation report carries with it the risk of conferring unfettered

 discretion upon the first respondent. The first respondent will attempt to

 disclose the least possible information in an adversarial proceeding,

 undermining the mandate of Regulation 10 ; (x) Without having access to the entirety of the investigation report, the

 noticee will be incapable of effectively challenging the decision of the

 first respondent. It will result in the adoption of an opaque process

 where SAT or the High Courts would receive the report in sealed

 covers and make ex parte determinations of whether the redactions

 made by the first respondent are justified, impacting the transparency of

 the judicial process; (xi) Regulation 9 imposes a qualitative requirement in relation to the

 investigation. If the investigation report is not disclosed, there is no

 incentive for the investigator to meet that qualitative requirement. There

 would be no way, therefore, to determine whether the investigation

 report was properly compiled and whether the investigation was

 conducted in a regular manner, in accordance with the standards of

 what a proper investigation entails; (xii) Redaction of the investigation report can be carried out as an exception

 for legitimate reasons. To reduce arbitrariness, the redactions should 12 PART B

 be supported by written reasons indicating the necessity of the

 measure. The reasons should have a certain degree of specificity; (xiii) The exceptional situations in which redactions can be made are known

 to law and include business secrets, personal data and third-party

 confidential information; and (xiv) Laws in the United States and European Union also adopt the default

 position that the noticee shall have access to the file subject to certain

 exceptions relating to business secrets and personal data, amongst

 others. 14 On behalf of the respondents, Mr CU Singh, learned senior counsel, made

the following submissions: The SEBI Act and the SCRA are wider in scope than the PFUTP

 Regulations. Additionally, Regulation 11 of PFUTP Regulations

 specifically provides that the actions or directions may be issued

 without prejudice to the provisions contained in sub-sections (1), (2),

 (2A) and (3) of Sections 11 and 11B of the SEBI Act; (ii) SEBI conducts an investigation under Section 11C of the SEBI Act,

 where, based on the findings arrived at during the investigation, 13 PART B

 allegations are levelled in the show cause notice. Together with the

 show cause notice all the documents that have been relied upon by the

 investigator are provided to the noticee. In the present, case all the

 relevant documents have been provided to the noticee, including the

 report of Pipara and Co. which formed the basis of the show cause

 notice. The appellant is not entitled to any other documents; (iii) The quasi-judicial proceedings that are initiated by SEBI proceed on the

 basis of the allegations that are mentioned in the show cause notice

 and the documents that are annexed to it. No other material, document

 or investigation is considered for adjudication by the competent

 authority. Orders are passed only after an opportunity to file a reply is

 given and a personal hearing is provided to comply with the principles

 of natural justice; (iv) Regulation 9 of PFUTP Regulations requires the Investigating Authority

 to submit the report, after completion of the investigation, to the

 appointing authority. However, the provision does not require the

 furnishing of the report to the noticee. The report is only in the nature of

 an inter-departmental communication between officers investigating the

 matter and the authority who decides if any enforcement action is to be

 taken against an entity based on any prima facie grounds. It is not a

 piece of evidence but is rather a culmination of documents that the

 investigating authority relies upon or comes across during the

 investigation; 14 PART B (v) This Court in several similar cases have held that internal investigation

 reports are not required to be shared. ( Krishna Chandra Tandon v.

 Union of India14 and Chandrama Tewari v. Union of India15 ); (vi) The investigations conducted by SEBI are highly sensitive given the

 volatile nature of the market. Disclosure of such information may

 adversely affect the market. Further, the investigation reports also

 contain the personal information of other stakeholders. They also

 include information relating to the commercial and business interests of

 third-parties. Sharing such information with the noticee will raise

 concerns regarding the privacy of third-parties and also affect their

 competitive position in the market; (vii) Clauses (d), (e) and (h) of sub-Section (1) of Section 8 of the Right to

 Information Act 200516 also exempt disclosure of – (i) “information

 including commercial confidence, trade secrets or intellectual property,

 the disclosure of which would harm the competitive position of a third

 party”; (ii) “information available in fiduciary relationship”; and (iii)

 “information which would impede the process of investigation”; and (viii) The US Securities and Exchange Commission conducts its

 investigations on a confidential basis to maximize their effectiveness

 and protect the privacy of those involved. UK Financial Conduct

 Authority also does not share confidential information even when the

 same is requested under the Freedom of Information Act stating that a

 clear confidentiality restriction encourages free flow of information and if 14 AIR 1974 SC 1589 15 (1988) 1 SCR 1102 16 “ RTI Act ” 15 PART C

 confidential information were to be made public, sources would be less

 willing to give information. Article 54 of Directive 2004/39 of the EU

 Parliament provides a legal framework for securities market and

 mandates that information of such nature ought not to be shared. Thus,

 the refusal of SEBI to furnish the investigation report is in line with

 established global practices. conferred by Section 30 of the SEBI Act. Regulation 2(c) defines the expression

‘fraud’ in the following terms: PART C

 (9) the act of an issuer of securities giving out
 misinformation that affects the market price of the
 security, resulting in investors being effectively misled
 even though they did not rely on the statement itself or
 anything derived from it other than the market price.
 And “fraudulent” shall be construed accordingly; Nothing
 contained in this clause shall apply to any general
 comments made in good faith in regard to— (a) the economic policy of the government (b) the economic situation of the country (c) trends in the securities market; (d) any other matter of a like nature

 whether such comments are made in public or in private;”

16 Chapter II of the Regulations relates to the prohibition of fraudulent and

unfair trade practices relating to the securities market. This includes Regulation 3 which deals with “Prohibition of certain dealings in securities” and Regulation 4 which deals with “Prohibition of manipulative, fraudulent and unfair trade

practices”. Chapter II pertains to the power of the Board to order an

investigation. Regulation 5 is extracted below: PART C

17 Under Regulation 718, the investigating authority may exercise certain

specified powers after obtaining the specific approval of the Chairman or

Members of the Board. Regulation 819 imposes a duty to cooperate upon every

person in respect of whom an investigation has been ordered under Regulation 7 .

18 Regulation 9 upon which the controversy in the present case turns is

extracted below: 8. (1) It shall be the duty of every person in respect of whom an investigation has been ordered under
regulation 7— (a) to produce to the Investigating Authority or any person authorized by him such books, accounts and other
documents and record in his custody or control and to furnish such statements and information as the
Investigating Authority or the person so authorized by him may reasonably require for the purposes of the
investigation; (b) to appear before the Investigating Authority personally when required to do so by him under regulation 6 or
regulation 7 to answer any question which is put to him by the Investigating Authority in pursuance of the powers
under the said regulations. (2) Without prejudice to the provisions of sections 235 to 241 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956), it shall be
the duty of every manager, managing director, officer and other employee of the company and every intermediary
referred to in section 12 of the Act or every person associated with the securities market to preserve and to
produce to the Investigating Authority or any person authorized by him in this behalf, all the books, registers,
other documents and record of, or relating to, the company or, as the case may be, of or relating to, the
intermediary or such person, which are in their custody or power.
(3) Without prejudice to the generality of the provisions of sub-regulations (1) and (2), such person shall— (a) allow the Investigating Authority to have access to the premises occupied by such person at all reasonable
times for the purpose of investigation; (b) extend to the Investigating Authority reasonable facilities for examining any books, accounts and other
documents in his custody or control (whether kept manually or in computer or in any other form) reasonably
required for the purposes of the investigation; (c) provide to such Investigating Authority any such books, accounts and records which, in the opinion of the
Investigating Authority, are relevant to the investigation or, as the case may be, allow him to take out computer
outprints thereof. 19 PART C

 Provided that the Investigating Authority may submit an
 interim report pending completion of investigations if he
 considers necessary in the interest of investors and the
 securities market or as directed by the appointing
 authority.” Regulation 9 envisages that the investigating authority must submit a report to

the appointing authority upon the completion of its investigation in the course of

which all relevant facts have to be taken into account. The investigating authority

may even submit an interim report, if necessary, in the interest of investors and

the securities market or, if directed by the appointing authority.

19 Regulation 10 deals with the Board’s power of enforcement. According to Regulation 10 : 20 The directions or measures which can be adopted by the Board are

specified in Regulations 11 and 12 which read as follows: - 12. (1) The Board may, without prejudice to the provisions
contained in subsections (1), (2), (2A) and (3) of section
11 and section 11B of the Act, by an order, for reasons to
be recorded in writing, in the interests of investors and
securities market take the following action against an
intermediary : 23 The purpose of disclosure of information is not merely individualistic, that is

to prevent errors in the verdict but is also towards fulfilling the larger institutional

purpose of fair trial and transparency. Since the purpose of disclosure of

information targets both the outcome (reliability) and the process (fair trial and 24 PART C

transparency), it would be insufficient if only the material relied on is disclosed.

Such a rule of disclosure, only holds nexus to the outcome and not the process.

Therefore, as a default rule, all relevant material must be disclosed.

24 It would be fundamentally contrary to the principles of natural justice if the

relevant part of the investigation report which pertains to the appellant is not

disclosed. The appellant has to be given a reasonable opportunity of hearing.

The requirement of a reasonable opportunity would postulate that such material

which has been and has to be taken into account under Regulation 10 must be

disclosed to the noticee. If the report of the investigation authority under Regulation 9 has to be considered by the Board before satisfaction is arrived at

on a possible violation of the regulations, the principles of natural justice require

due disclosure of the report. 25 The consequence of the Board arriving at a satisfaction that there has

been a violation of the regulations is that the Board can take recourse to the

actions specified under Regulations 11 and 12. Regulation 11 empowers the

Board to: PART C (v) Issuing a direction not to dispose of or alienate an asset forming part of

 a fraudulent and unfair transaction; (vi) Prohibit the disposal of any of the securities acquired in contravention

 of these regulations; and (vii) Directing the disposal of any securities in accordance with the mandate

 of the Board. Under Regulation 11(2) , a press release has to be issued by the Board in respect

of a final order which is passed under Regulation 11(1) .

26 Regulation 12 empowers the Board to suspend or cancel the registration of

an intermediary among other things. The provisions of Regulations 11 and 12

indicate that the consequences of the satisfaction which is arrived at by the Board

under Regulation 10 , if there is a violation of the Regulations, are grave.

27 The submission of Mr C U Singh, learned senior counsel is that only those

materials which are relied upon should be disclosed to the first respondent.

Regulation 10, as we have noted earlier, stipulates that the satisfaction of the

Board whether there has been a violation of the regulations has to be arrived at: Once the subordinate legislation mandates that the investigating authority’s

report is an essential ingredient for the Board to arrive at the satisfaction, it

requires due disclosure. 26 PART C

28 Now in the above context, it would be material to advert to the decision of

this court in Natwar Singh (supra). The issue before the two-judge Bench of this

Court was whether a noticee who is served with a show cause notice under Rule

4(1) of the Foreign Exchange Management (Adjudication Proceedings and

Appeal) Rules 200020, is entitled to demand all the documents in the possession

of the adjudicating authority including those documents upon which no reliance

has been placed while issuing a notice to show cause as to why an enquiry

should not be initiated against him. Rule 4 is in the following terms: 29 Now in this backdrop, Justice B. Sudarshan Reddy speaking for the two-

judge Bench of this Court interpreted Rule 4 as follows: 30 The decision of this Court distinguishes between the initial stage under

Rule 4(1) which is only for the purpose of deciding whether an enquiry has to be

held and the subsequent stage of adjudication into the allegations of

contravention. This Court further held : 31 On the facts of that case, the Court held that the enquiry against the

noticee was yet to commence: 32 The issue in Natwar Singh (supra) was whether the authority was bound

to disclose to the noticee all the documents in its possession before forming an

opinion on whether an enquiry is required to be held into the alleged

contravention by the noticee. The Court held that at that stage there was no

requirement of furnishing all such documents to the noticee since the only

purpose of the notice under Rule 4(1) was for deciding whether an enquiry should

be held. Rule 4(1), in other words, was not a final adjudication and consequently

the requirement of a disclosure of all materials in the possession of the authority

was not attracted. At that stage, it was sufficient that only documents that have

been relied on are disclosed. 33 The High Court in the present case has palpably misconstrued the

judgment in Natwar Singh (supra). The High Court has failed to notice that the

issue in that case was whether at the stage when the authority decides under

Rule 4(1) of the FEMA Rules 2000 whether an enquiry should be held, a 31 PART C

disclosure of all documents in the possession of the authority to the noticee is

warranted. This was answered in the negative. This Court distinguished the stage

of adjudication as distinct from the initial stage under Rule 4(1). At the stage of

adjudication, all documents useful or relevant to the subject-matter have to be

disclosed to the notice, subject to exceptions noticed by the court.

34 On behalf of the Board, it has been urged that the investigation report is in

the nature of an inter-departmental communication and need not be disclosed. Reliance was placed on the judgment of this Court in Krishna Chandra Tandon (supra) to buttress the submission. However, it is clear from the judgment that

even if the documents are merely inter-departmental communications, there is a

duty to disclose such documents if they have been relied upon by the enquiry

officer. A two-Judge Bench of this observed: 35 However, merely because the investigating authority has denied placing

reliance on the report would not mean that such material cannot be disclosed to

the noticee. The court may look into the relevance of the material to the proposed

action and its nexus to the stage of adjudication. Simply put, this entails

evaluating whether the material in all reasonable probability would influence the

decision of the authority. The above position was laid down by this Court in Khudiram Das v. State of West Bengal21 . Ruling in the context of preventive

detention, a four-judge Bench of this Court observed: disclosure, this Court held that the report must be furnished to the aggrieved

person and the employee must shoulder the burden of proving on facts that his

case was prejudiced – either the outcome or the punishment – by the non-

disclosure: (emphasis supplied)

36 In State Bank of Patiala v. SK Sharma24 , this Court noted that if a facet of

a rule of natural justice is violated on grounds of preserving public interest, the

entire proceeding is not vitiated unless prejudice has been caused to the

delinquent. A distinction was made between the complete non-abidance of the

principles of natural justice, that is where no information was disclosed and

arguments of insufficient disclosure. It was held that when the latter argument is 24 (1996) 3 SCC 364 36 PART C

made, the Court must determine if the insufficient disclosure caused prejudice.

This Court observed: the complaint should be examined on the touchstone
 of prejudice as aforesaid.”
 (emphasis supplied)

37 In State of Uttar Pradesh v. Ramesh Chandra Mangalik25 , it was held

that the duty to disclose is confined only to material and relevant documents

which may have been relied upon in support of the charges. In that case, the

personal file of other officers was not supplied to the delinquent officer. It was

noted that such documents have not been relied upon by the enquiry officer. The

delinquent officer was not able to prove the relevance of the documents that were

suppressed. This Court observed: examination of any witness, non-supply of such a
 document will not cause any prejudice to the
 delinquent. The inquiry would not be vitiated in such
 circumstances. In State of T.N. v. Thiru K.V.
 Perumal [(1996) 5 SCC 474 : 1996 SCC (L&S) 1280]
 relied upon by the appellant, it is held that it is for the
 delinquent to show the relevance of a document a
 copy of which he insists to be supplied to him. Prejudice caused by non-supply of document has
 also to be seen. In yet another case relied upon by the
 learned counsel for the appellant, reported in State of
 U.P. v. Harendra Arora [(2001) 6 SCC 392 : 2001 SCC
 (L&S) 959] it has been held that a delinquent must show
 the prejudice caused to him by non-supply of a copy of
 the document where order of punishment is challenged on
 that ground.”

 (emphasis supplied)

38 In Kothari Filaments v. Commr. Of Customs26 , this Court held that the

Commissioner of Customs in the exercise of its quasi-judicial powers cannot pass

an order on the basis of material which is only known to the authorities. This

Court held: Only on knowing the contents of the documents, he could
 furnish an effective reply….”

39 The following principles emerge from the above discussion: In all reasonable probability, such material would have influenced the

 decision reached by the authority. Thus, the actual test is whether the material that is required to be disclosed is

relevant for purpose of adjudication. If it is, then the principles of natural justice

require its due disclosure. 40 The investigation report forms the material considering which, the Board

arrives at a satisfaction regarding whether there has been a violation of the

regulations. If it is satisfied that there has been a violation of the regulations, after

giving a reasonable opportunity to be heard, the Board is empowered to take

action according to Regulations 11 and 12. It would not suffice for the first

respondent to claim as it did before the High Court that it did not rely on the

investigation report. The ipse dixit of the authority that it was not influenced by

certain material would not suffice. If the material is relevant to and has a nexus to 40 PART C

the stage at which satisfaction is reached by an authority, such material would be

deemed to be important for the purpose of adjudication. The written submissions

of the Board clearly state that the findings of the investigation report are important

for the authority to decide whether there are any prima facie grounds to initiate

enforcement proceedings under Regulation 10 . The relevant extract of the

submissions is reproduced below: 41 The above extracts indicate that the findings of the investigation report are

relevant for the Board to arrive at the satisfaction on whether the Regulations

have been violated. Even if it is assumed that the report is an inter-departmental

communication, as held in Krishna Chandra Tandon (supra), there is a duty to

disclose such report if it is relevant for the satisfaction of the enforcement

authority for the determination of the alleged violation. 41 PART C

42 In Khudiram Das (supra), a four-Judge Bench of this Court laid down a

two-prong test for the standard of ‘relevancy’; firstly, the material must have

nexus with the order and secondly, the material might have influenced the

decision of the authority. A Constitution Bench of this Court in Karunakar (supra) held that the non-disclosure of the relevant information is not in itself

sufficient to warrant the setting aside of the order of punishment. It was held that

in order to set aside the order of punishment, the aggrieved person must be able

prove that prejudice has been caused to him due to non-disclosure. To prove

prejudice, he must prove that had the material been disclosed to him the outcome

or the punishment would have been different. The test for the extent of disclosure

and the corresponding remedy for non-disclosure is dependent on the objective

that the disclosure seeks to achieve. Therefore, the impact of non-disclosure on

the reliability of the verdict must also be determined vis-à-vis, the overall fairness

of the proceeding. While determining the reliability of the verdict and punishment,

the court must also look into the possible uses of the undisclosed information for

purposes ancillary to the outcome, but that which might have impacted the

verdict. 43 In Natwar Singh (supra), it was held that material which is relevant to the

subject-matter of the proceedings must be disclosed, unless the scheme of the

statute indicates to the contrary. The non-disclosure of such material is prima

facie arbitrary. A deviation from this general rule was made based on the stage of

the proceedings. It was held that it is sufficient to disclose the materials relied on

if it is for the purpose of issuing a show cause notice for initiating inquiry.

However, in the present case, since the report of the investigating authority under 42 PART C Regulation 9 enters into the calculus of circumstances borne in mind by the

Board in arriving at its satisfaction under Regulation 10 for taking actions as

specified in Regulations 11 and 12, it would be contrary to the Regulations to

assert that the investigation report is merely an internal document of which a

disclosure is not warranted. In any event, the language of Regulation 10 makes it

clear that the Board forms an opinion regarding the violation of Regulations after

considering the investigation report prepared under Regulation 9 . Thus, the

investigation report has to be duly disclosed to the noticee. However, the right to

disclosure is not absolute. It needs to be determined if the non-disclosure of the

investigative report is protected by any of the exceptions to the rule.

C.3. Exceptions to the Duty to Disclose

44 The contention of the respondents is that since the investigation report

under Regulation 9 would also include information on “commercial and business

interests, documents involving strategic information, investment strategies,

rationale for investments, commercial information and information regarding the

business affairs of the entities/persons concerned” affecting the privacy and the

competitive position of other entities, it should not be disclosed. Buttressing this

argument, the respondent referred to clauses (d), (e) and (h) of the sub-Section

(1) of the RTI Act which states there shall be no duty to disclose information

affecting the commercial confidence or that which could harm the competitive

position of a third party or impede the process of investigation, unless there is a

larger public interest in the disclosure of information. The RTI Act attempts to

balance the interests of third party individuals whose information may be

disclosed and public interest in ensuring transparency and accountability. The 43 PART C

RTI Act is reflective of the parliamentary intent to facilitate transparency in the

administration, which is the rationale for the disclosure of information. This is

subject to certain defined exceptions. 45 We cannot be oblivious to the wide range of sensitive information that the

investigation report submitted under Regulation 9 may cover, ranging from

information on financial transactions and on other entities in the securities

market, which might affect third-party rights. The report may contain market

sensitive information which may impinge upon the interest of investors and the

stability of the securities market. The requirement of compliance with the

principles of natural justice cannot therefore be read to encompass the right to a

roving disclosure on matters unconnected or as regards the dealings of third

parties. The investigating authority may acquire information of sensitive nature

bearing upon the orderly functioning of the securities market. The right of the

noticee to disclosure must be balanced with a need to preserve any other third-

party rights that may be affected. 46 In Natwar Singh (supra), this Court has observed that there are

exceptions to the general rule of disclosing evidentiary material. This Court held

that such exceptions can be invoked if the disclosure of material causes harm to

others, is injurious to public health or breaches confidentiality. While identifying

the purpose of disclosure, we have held that one of the crucial objectives of the

right to disclosure is securing the transparency of institutions. The claims of third

party rights vis-à-vis the right to disclosure cannot be pitted as an issue of public

interest and fair adjudication. The creation of such a binary reduces and limits the

purpose that disclosure of information serves. The respondent should prima 44 PART C

facie establish that the disclosure of the report would affect third party rights. The

onus then shifts to the appellant to prove that the information is necessary to

defend his case appropriately. 47 Applying this test to the facts, we find that the appellant is unable to prove

that the disclosure of the entire report is necessary for him to defend the case.

The first respondent made the following arguments making a prima facie case

that the disclosure of the report would violate third party rights: 48 The appellant did not sufficiently discharge his burden by proving that the

non-disclosure of the above information would affect his ability to defend himself.

However, merely because a few portions of the enquiry report involve information

on third-parties or confidential information on the securities market, the

respondent does not have a right to withhold the disclosure of the relevant

portions of the report. The first respondent can only claim non-disclosure of those

sections of the report which deal with third party personal information and

strategic information on the functioning of the securities market. 45 PART C

49 Therefore, the Board should determine such parts of the investigation

report under Regulation 9 which have a bearing on the action which is proposed

to be taken against the person to whom the notice to show cause is issued and

disclose the same. It can redact information that impinges on the privacy of third

parties. It cannot exercise unfettered discretion in redacting information. On the

other hand, such parts of the report which are necessary for the appellant to

defend his case against the action proposed to be taken against him need to be

disclosed. It is needless to say that the investigating authority is duty-bound to

disclose such parts of the report to the noticee in good faith. If the investigating

authority attempts to circumvent its duty by revealing minimal information, to the

prejudice of the appellant, it will be in violation of the principles of natural justice.

The court/appellate forum in an appropriate case will be empowered to call for

the investigation report and determine if the duty to disclose has been effectively

complied with. 50 The notice to show cause issued to the appellant is for violation of the

provisions of the SEBI Act , SCRA and PFUTP Regulations. The show cause

notice has specifically referred to what was revealed during the course of the

investigation and has invoked the provisions of the PFUTP Regulations in the

allegations against the appellant. Para 8 (2) of the show cause notice is extracted

below: (ii) The Board under Regulation 10 considers the investigation report

 submitted by the Investigating Authority under Regulation 9 , and if it is 47 PART D

 satisfied with the allegations, it could issue punitive measures under

 Regulations 11 and 12. Therefore, the investigation report is not merely

 an internal document. In any event, the language of Regulation 10 makes

 it clear that the Board forms an opinion regarding the violation of

 Regulations after considering the investigation report prepared under Regulation 9 ; (iii) The disclosure of material serves a three- fold purpose of decreasing the

 error in the verdict, protecting the fairness of the proceedings, and

 enhancing the transparency of the investigatory bodies and judicial

 institutions; (iv) A focus on the institutional impact of suppression of material prioritises

 the process as opposed to the outcome. The direction of the Constitution

 Bench of this Court in Karunakar (supra) that the non-disclosure of

 relevant information would render the order of punishment void only if the

 aggrieved person is able to prove that prejudice has been caused to him

 due to non-disclosure is founded both on the outcome and the process; (v) The right to disclosure is not absolute. The disclosure of information may

 affect other third-party interests and the stability and orderly functioning of

 the securities market. The respondent should prima facie establish that

 the disclosure of the report would affect third-party rights and the stability

 and orderly functioning of the securities market. The onus then shifts to

 the appellant to prove that the information is necessary to defend his

 case appropriately; and 48 PART D (vi) Where some portions of the enquiry report involve information on third- parties or confidential information on the securities market, the

 respondent cannot for that reason assert a privilege against disclosing

 any part of the report. The respondents can withhold disclosure of those

 sections of the report which deal with third-party personal information and

 strategic information bearing upon the stable and orderly functioning of

 the securities market. 52 The Board shall be duty-bound to provide copies of such parts of the report

which concern the specific allegations which have been levelled against the

appellant in the notice to show cause. However, this does not entitle the appellant

to receive sensitive information regarding third parties and unrelated transactions

that may form part of the investigation report. 53 During the course of the hearing, the Court has been apprised of the fact

that though the hearing before the designated officer has been held, no orders

have been passed in deference to the pendency of the present proceedings.

Having regard to the conclusion which has been arrived at above, we direct that

after a due disclosure is made to the appellant in terms as noted above, a

reasonable opportunity shall be granted to the appellant of being heard with

reference to the matters of disclosure in compliance with the principles of natural

justice before a final decision is arrived at. 54 The disclosure in terms of the present judgment shall be communicated to

the appellant within one month from the date of this judgment and the appellant

shall be given a period of one month to respond. The officer concerned in charge 49 PART D

of the enquiry shall fix a date for personal hearing before taking a final decision.

The appeals are allowed in the above terms. 55 The judgment of the Division Bench of the High Court of Judicature at

Bombay dated 29 September 2020 is accordingly set aside. In the circumstances

of the case, there shall be no order as to costs. 56 Pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of. …..…..…....…........……………….…........J.
 [Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud]

 …..…..…....…........……………….…........J.
 [Sanjiv Khanna]

New Delhi; February 18, 2022 50