1 Serial No.17. April 11, 2019. SG
Allowed
 CRM 2561 of 2019

 In Re. An application for bail under Section 439 of the
 Code of Criminal Procedure. In the matter of: Mousumi Roy
 ... petitioner. Mr Milon Mukherjee
 Mr Manas Dasgupta
 Mr Biswajit Manna
 ... for the petitioner. Mr Debajyoti Deb
 ... for the State. The petitioner seeks bail in connection with Khejuri Police
 Station Case No.47 of 2017 dated February 19, 2017 under Sections 406 / 420 / 120B of the Indian Penal Code and Section 3 of
 the West Bengal Protection of Interest of Depositors in Financial
 Establishments Act. The petitioner is the wife of the principal accused in the ponzi
 scheme. The petitioner relies on a report filed by the Directorate of
 Economic Offences, West Bengal before the Division Bench of this
 court looking into the civil aspects pertaining to ponzi schemes in
 WP 24110 (W) of 2016. Such report of February 7, 2019 indicates that the total dues
 of the depositors in respect of different schemes of the Pincon group 2 of companies is about Rs.59.04 crore. The report also reveals that
goods of total value of about Rs.15 crore have been seized but that
such amount may not be sufficient to discharge the dues of all the
depositors. The petitioner says that the petitoner was a director in one of
the fringe companies for a limited time and it is nobody's case that
the petitioner went about collecting deposits from any person
during the short tenure that the petitioner was shown as a director
of the relevant company. Considering the relationship between the petitioner and the
principal person who masterminded the ponzi schemes, it is
necessary that a substantial deposit be obtained from the petitioner
as condition precedent to enlarge the petitioner on bail. Accordingly, in addition to the usual conditions, the petitioner
is required to deposit a sum of Rs.3 crore with the Registrar General
of this court within a fortnight from date as condition precedent for
the petitioner obtaining interim bail. The money will be held by the
Registrar General in connection with WP 24110 (W) of 2016 and the
deposit will be subject to the orders of the Division Bench in seisin
of the relevant writ petition. Upon deposit of such amount of Rs.3 crore, the petitioner will
be enlarged on interim bail subject to the condition that a further
sum of Rs.3 crore would be deposited by the petitioner by July 31,
2019. In default of such further sum being deposited, the interim
bail granted to the petitioner will stand rejected. Upon the deposit
being made, however, the petitioner will enjoy regular bail subject to
the conditions imposed herein. The petitioner shall be released on bail upon furnishing a
bond of Rs.20,000/- (Rupees Twenty Thousand only), with four
sureties, one of whom must be local, to the satisfaction of the Chief
Judicial Magistrate, Tamluk subject to the further conditions that
the petitioner shall not intimidate the witnesses or tamper with the
evidence in any manner whatsoever and she shall appear before the
trial court on every date of hearing. In addition, the petitioner should not leave the country till the
conclusion of the trial without the express previous leave of the trial
court. In the event of violation of any of the conditions, the trial court
will be at liberty to cancel the bail without reference to this court. The prayer for bail is allowed, subject to the conditions stated
above. Certified website copies of this order, if applied for, be supplied
to the parties upon compliance with all requisite formalities. ( Sanjib Banerjee, J. )

 ( Suvra Ghosh, J. ) 4