1. RULE. Learned APP waives service of notice of Rule on
behalf of the respondent-State. 2. By way of the present application under Section 438 of
the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, the applicant
accused has prayed to release him on anticipatory bail in
the event of his arrest in connection with the FIR being I-
C.R. No.16 of 2019 with Amreli City Police Station, Amreli
for the offences punishable under Sections 406 , 420 , 409 and 114 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 and under Section
3 of the Gujarat Protection of Interest of Depositors Act,
2003 and Sections 4 , 5 and 6 of the Prize Chits and Money
Circulation Schemes (Banning) Act, 1978. 3. Mr. Asim Pandya, learned Senior Advocate assisted by
Mr.Vishal Dave, learned advocate for the applicant submits
that the present applicant are employees of the Sahara
Credit Cooperative Society Limited. The concerned
investors including the complainant have invested their Page 1 of 7 Downloaded on : Mon Oct 16 20:41:29 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/11027/2022 ORDER DATED: 13/10/2023

 undefined

amount in the aforesaid Credit Cooperative Society.
However, the applicant are not the beneficiaries. They
are not the Directors or the Office Bearers of the aforesaid
Credit Cooperative Society Limited. However, subsequently,
the Hon'ble Supreme Court formulated a plan in Writ
Petition (C) No.191 of 2022, whereby the government would
create a portal under the supervision of a Judge of the
Supreme Court, and the disbursement of funds would take
place in a transparent manner and now, it is for the
concerned investors/depositors to approach the SEBI for
return of the amount invested or deposited by them
before the Credit Cooperative Society. It is submitted that
the applicant did not receive any financial gain or benefits.
It is further submitted that Out of the total amount of Rs.
24,979.67 Crores lying in the "Sahara-SEBI Refund
Account", Rs. 5000 Crores be transferred to the Central
Registrar of Cooperative Societies, who, in turn, shall
disburse the same against the legitimate dues of the
depositors of the Sahara Group of Cooperative Societies,
which shall be paid to the genuine depositors in the most
transparent manner and on proper identification and on
submitting proof of their deposits and proof of their claims
and to be deposited in their respective bank accounts
directly. It is submitted that the nature of allegations are
such for which custodial interrogation at this stage is not
necessary. Besides, the applicant is available during the
course of investigation and will not flee from justice. In view Page 2 of 7 Downloaded on : Mon Oct 16 20:41:29 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/11027/2022 ORDER DATED: 13/10/2023

 undefined

of the above, the applicant may be granted anticipatory bail. 3.1 Learned Senior advocate for the applicant, on
instructions, states that the applicant is ready and willing to
abide by all the conditions including imposition of
conditions with regard to powers of Investigating Agency to
file an application before the competent Court for his
remand. He would further submit that upon filing of such
application by the Investigating Agency, the right of
applicant accused to oppose such application on merits may
be kept open. 4. Learned Additional Public Prosecutor appearing on
behalf of the respondent - State has vehemently opposed
grant of anticipatory bail looking to the nature and gravity
of the offence and submitted that The present applicant
have played an active role in the commission of the offense,
and at the behest of the accused persons, innocent
depositors invested their hard-earned capital in the Sahara
Company. Upon learning about the misappropriation and
subsequent scam, the applicant persuaded the investors to
invest their hard-earned money in the company in order to
gain significant interest. Learned APP, therefore, submits
that the applicant be dismissed. 5. Having heard the learned advocate for the parties and
perusing the investigation papers, it is equally incumbent
upon the Court to exercise its discretion judiciously, Page 3 of 7 Downloaded on : Mon Oct 16 20:41:29 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/11027/2022 ORDER DATED: 13/10/2023

 undefined

cautiously and strictly in compliance with the basic
principles laid down in a plethora of decisions of the Hon'ble
Apex Court on the point. It is well settled that, among other
circumstances, the factors to be borne in mind while
considering an application for bail are (i) whether there is
any prima facie or reasonable ground to believe that the
accused had committed the offence; (ii) nature and gravity of
the accusation; (iii) severity of the punishment in the event
of conviction; (iv) danger of the accused absconding or
fleeing, if released on bail; (v) character, behaviour, means,
position and standing of the accused; (vi) likelihood of the
offence being repeated; (vii) reasonable apprehension of the
witnesses being influenced; and (viii) danger, of course, of
justice being thwarted by grant of bail. Though at the stage
of granting bail an elaborate examination of evidence and
detailed reasons touching the merit of the case, which may
prejudice the accused, should be avoided. I have considered
the following aspects. 6. Considering the aforesaid aspects and the law laid
down by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Siddharam
Satlingappa Mhetre vs. State of Maharashtra and Ors. reported in (2011) 1 SCC 6941, wherein the Hon'ble Apex
Court reiterated the law laid down by the Constitution
Bench in the case of Shri Gurubaksh Singh Sibbia & Ors.
reported in (1980) 2 SCC 665 and also the decision in the
case of Sushila Aggarwal v. State (NCT of Delhi ) reported in
(2020) 5 SCC 1, I am inclined to allow the present
application. 7. In the result, the present application is allowed by
directing that in the event of applicant herein being arrested Page 5 of 7 Downloaded on : Mon Oct 16 20:41:29 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/11027/2022 ORDER DATED: 13/10/2023

 undefined

in connection with the FIR being I-C.R. No.16 of 2019 with
Amreli City Police Station, Amreli, the applicant shall be
released on bail on furnishing a personal bond of
Rs.10,000/- (Rupees Ten Thousand Only) with one surety of
like amount on the following conditions that he: (c) shall not directly or indirectly make any
 inducement, threat or promise to any person
 acquainted with the fact of the case so as to
 dissuade him from disclosing such facts to the
 court or to any police officer; (d) shall not obstruct or hamper the police
 investigation and not to play mischief with the
 evidence collected or yet to be collected by the
 police; (e) shall at the time of execution of bond, furnish the
 address to the investigating officer and the court
 concerned and shall not change his residence till
 the final disposal of the case till further orders; (f) shall not leave India without the permission of
 the Court and if having passport shall deposit the
 same before the Trial Court within a week; and (g) it would be open to the Investigating Officer to file Page 6 of 7 Downloaded on : Mon Oct 16 20:41:29 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/11027/2022 ORDER DATED: 13/10/2023

 undefined

 an application for remand if he considers it
 proper and just and the learned Magistrate would
 decide it on merits; 8. Despite this order, it would be open for the
Investigating Agency to apply to the competent Magistrate,
for police remand of the applicant. The applicant shall
remain present before the learned Magistrate on the first
date of hearing of such application and on all subsequent
occasions, as may be directed by the learned Magistrate.
This would be sufficient to treat the accused in the judicial
custody for the purpose of entertaining application of the
prosecution for police remand. It is clarified that the
applicant, even if, remanded to the police custody, upon
completion of such period of police remand, shall be set free
immediately, subject to other conditions of this anticipatory
bail order. 9. At the trial, the Trial Court shall not be influenced by
the prima facie observations made by this Court while
enlarging the applicant on bail. 10. Rule is made absolute to the aforesaid extent.
Application is disposed of accordingly. Direct service is
permitted. (HASMUKH D. SUTHAR,J)
ALI Page 7 of 7 Downloaded on : Mon Oct 16 20:41:29 IST 2023