Arshad Hussain Warsi
 Casa Zen 10, Shantiniketan CHSL,
 Air India Colony, Yari Road,
 Versova, Andheri West,
 Mumbai - 400 061. 2. Maria Goretti Warsi
 Casa Zen 10, Shantiniketan CHSL,
 Air India Colony, Yari Road,
 Versova, Andheri West,
 Mumbai - 400 061. 3. Iqbal Hussain Warsi
 2506 Mayfair, The View,
 Godrej Hiranandani Link Road,
 Vikhroli West, Mumbai - 400 079. ..... Appellants

 Versus

Securities and Exchange Board of India
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C-4A, G Block,
Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East),
Mumbai - 400 051. ... Respondent 2 Mr. Amit Agrawal, Advocate with Mr. Sumit Agrawal, Mr. Rushin
Kapadia, Mr. Pratham Darad, Ms. Radhika Yadav, Mr. Tarun
Toprani, Advocates i/b Regstreet Law Advisors for the Appellants.

Mr. Gaurav Joshi, Senior Advocate with Mr. Feroze Patel, Mr. Mihir
Mody, Mr. Arnav Misra, Mr. Mayur Jaisingh, Advocates i/b. K
Ashar & Co. for the Respondent. With
 Misc. Application No. 377 of 2023
 And Appeal No. 285 of 2023 Aahuti Rasik Mistry
A Wing, 1903, Oberoi Springs,
Off New Link Road, Citi Mall,
Andheri West, Mumbai - 400 053. ..... Appellant

 Versus

Securities and Exchange Board of India
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C-4A, G Block,
Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East),
Mumbai - 400 051. ... Respondent

Mr. Sumit Agrawal, Advocate with Mr. Amit Agrawal. Mr. Rushin
Kapadia, Ms. Krithika Kataria, Mr. Atharv Kotwal, Advocates i/b
Regstreet Law Advisors for the Appellant. Mr. Sumit Rai, Advocate with Mr. Mihir Mody, Mr. Arnav Misra,
Mr. Mayur Jaisingh, Advocates i/b. K Ashar & Co. for the
Respondent. CORAM : Justice Tarun Agarwala, Presiding Officer
 Ms. Meera Swarup, Technical Member

Per : Justice Tarun Agarwala, Presiding Officer 1. The Whole Time Member (hereinafter referred to as

WTM') of Securities and Exchange Board of India (hereinafter

referred to as 'SEBI') has passed an ex-parte ad-interim order dated

March 2, 2023 against 31 noticees issuing a slew of directions,

namely, directing the noticees to deposit the unlawful gains in an

escrow account in a nationalized bank towards illegal gains made by

them and further directing the bank to freeze all debits till such time

an escrow account is opened and the amount is transferred. The

WTM also directed the depositories to suspend all debits and

restrained the noticees from disposing or alienating any assets or

property. The WTM also directed the noticees to provide full

inventory of all the assets or investments held in their name, jointly

and severally, whether movable or immovable including details of all

bank accounts, demat accounts, mutual fund investments, etc. 2. Four noticees out of 31 noticees have filed two appeals

questioning the validity and legality of the ex-parte ad-interim order.

Appeal No. 284 of 2023 has been filed by Arshad H. Warsi, Maria 4 Goretti Warsi and Iqbal Hussain Warsi who have arrayed as noticees

nos. 28, 29 and 30 in the impugned order. Appeal No. 285 of 2023

has been filed by Aahuti Rasik Mistry who has been arrayed as

noticee nos. 27 in the impugned order. 3. The ex-parte ad-interim order has been issued under Section

11(1) , 11(4) and 11B of the Securities and Exchange Board of India

Act, 1992 (hereinafter referred to as ' SEBI Act ') for, prima-facie,

finding a violation of Section 12A of the SEBI Act read with

Regulations 3 and 4 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India

(Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trading Practices relating to

Securities Market) Regulations, 2003 (hereinafter referred to as

'PFUTP Regulations'). 4. We have heard Mr. Amit Agrawal, the learned counsel with

Mr. Sumit Agrawal, Mr. Pratham Darad, Ms. Radhika Yadav,

Mr. Tarun Toprani, Mr. Rushin Kapadia, Ms. Krithika Kataria,

Mr. Atharv Kotwal, the learned counsel for the appellants and

Mr. Gaurav Joshi, the learned senior counsel with Mr. Sumit Rai,

Mr. Feroze Patel, Mr. Mihir Mody, Mr. Arnav Misra, Mr. Mayur

Jaisingh, the learned counsel for the respondent. 5 5. The contention of the learned counsel for the appellants was

that there was no urgency in passing an ex-parte ad-interim order

with regard to the trades done by the appellants. It was alleged that

the appellants were not part of the orchestrated scheme and did not

induce any unsuspecting investors to trade in the shares of the scrip

in question nor featured in the alleged videos which were uploaded

on the YouTube channels nor participated, in any manner, in the

alleged scheme. It was urged that the principles as contemplated

under Order 38 Rule 5 of the Code of Civil Procedure is applicable in

the instant case in as much as, in the absence of any cogent evidence,

the impounding order was passed on imaginary reasons. In support

of his submissions, the learned counsel has placed reliance on the

decisions of this Tribunal in Affluence Fincon Services Pvt. Ltd. &

Ors. vs. SEBI Appeal No. 269 of 2020 decided on September 7,

2020, Dr. Udayant Malhoutra vs. SEBI Appeal No. 45 of 2020

decided on June 2, 2020, Cameo Corporate Services Limited vs.

SEBI Appeal No. 566 of 2019 decided on November 26, 2019,

North End Foods Marketing Pvt. Ltd. & Anr. vs. SEBI Appeal No. 80 of 2019 decided on March 12, 2019 and a decision of the Hon'ble

Supreme Court in Radha Krishan Industries vs. State of Himachal

Pradesh & Ors. [(2021) 6 SCC 771]. 6. On the other hand, the learned senior counsel for the

respondent contended that the impugned order was just and proper,

in the circumstances of the case in order to protect the securities

market and the investors. It was urged that it was a classic case of

pump and dump scheme whereby through an orchestrated scheme,

the noticees in the impugned order including the appellants through a

coordinated involvement have made illegal gains by way of alleged

fraudulent and manipulative scheme which was violative of Section

12A of the SEBI Act read with Regulations 3 and 4 of the PFUTP

Regulations. It was urged that the appellants in the instant case were

volume creators who have induced unsuspecting investors to deal in

the scrip. 7. The facts leading to the filing of the present appeals is, that

the appellant nos. 1 in Appeal No. 284 of 2023 is an actor in

Bollywood and works in the entertainment industry. Appellant Nos.

2 is his wife who is an author and a chef and appellant nos. 3 is a

brother of the appellant nos. 1 and is also the employee manager of

the appellant nos. 1 and manages the business, accounts, taxes and

properties of the appellant nos. 1. The appellant Aahuti R. Mistry in

Appeal No. 285 of 2023 is a talent manager of the appellant Arshad

Warsi. The appellants contended that Arshad Warsi was working on 7 a movie assignment given by noticee nos. 1 Manish Mishra and

while working in that film, the appellants were induced and

persuaded by noticee no. 1 to trade in the shares of the scrip of

Sadhna Broadcast Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as 'Sadhna'). 8. The appellant nos. 1, 2 and 3 in appeal No. 284 of 2023

accordingly invested a sum of Rs. 1,17,99,684/- for shares purchased

in an around July 13, 2022 and the shares were purchased from Jatin

Manubhai Shah, Daivik Jatin Shah, Heli Jatin Shah and Angad

Ishwarlal Rathod who are also noticees in the impugned order and

are also depicted as volume creators. The appellants sold most of the

shares on August 3, 2022 and August 5, 2022 for a total

consideration of Rs. 1,94,34,412/- and thereby made a profit of

Rs. 76,34,728/-. Similarly, Aahuti R. Mistry brought 10 lacs shares

and sold the same during patch 1 which is from April 27, 2022 to

July 14, 2022. 9. It transpires that some complaints were received by SEBI

regarding price manipulation and offloading of shares by certain

entities in the scrip of Sadhna. It was alleged that misleading

YouTube videos with false contents were being uploaded to lure

unsuspecting investors to trade in the scrip of Sadhna. Based on

these complaints, SEBI conducted a preliminary examination to look 8 into a possible violation of various provisions of the SEBI Act and its

Regulations and found that in patch 1 which is from April 27, 2022

to July 14, 2022, there was a spurt in the price and volume of the

scrip in question. The examination further revealed that in patch 2,

i.e. from July 15, 2022 to September 30, 2022, false and misleading

videos about the company were uploaded on two YouTube channels,

namely, 'The Advisor' and 'Moneywise'. These YouTube channels

were created by noticee no. 1 and false and misleading news

recommending that investors should buy the scrip of Sadhna. The

examination further revealed that YouTube video was uploaded on

July 15, 2022 which led to an increase in the price and trading

volume on the basis of the videos being streamed on the YouTube

channels which had lakhs of subscribers. During this period, certain

promoters, shareholders, key managerial personnel of the company

and non-promoters, shareholders off-loaded a significant portion of

their shareholding at inflated prices and booked profit. 10. In the impugned order, noticee nos. 28, 29 and 30 have been

classified as volume creators and profit makers and noticee nos. 27

has been classified as a volume creator. 11. Based on the above, the WTM, prima-facie, came to the

conclusion and held in paragraph nos. 6.9 of the impugned order that 9 various noticees collectively helped to create trading volumes and

interest in the scrip and spread false and misleading YouTube videos

and, therefore, induced unsuspecting investors to buy the scrip of

Sadhna at elevated prices, thereby, prima-facie, violating the

provisions of the PFUTP Regulations. 12. In paragraph no. 19 of the impugned order, the WTM, prima-

facie, concluded that the noticees including the appellants were

involved in a scheme / device to manipulate the volume of Sadhna

through the trades of some of the noticees and through buy

recommendations made through YouTube videos which, prima-facie,

induced small investors to deal in Sadhna. In paragraph no. 28, the

WTM, prima-facie, found that the modus operandi indicates that the

noticees were engaged in the coordinated scheme to induce

unsuspecting investors to acquire securities in the scrip in question to

buy at inflated price thereby making illegal gains at the cost of new

investors and accordingly, prima-facie, found violation of Section

12A of the SEBI Act and Regulations 3 and 4 of the PFUTP

Regulations. 13. The WTM in paragraph no. 32 held that all the noticees are

individually liable to disgorge the illegal gains individually made by

them as depicted in table no. 16 but simultaneously held that noticees 10 nos. 1, 4, 5, 6, 7, 10, 11, 23 and 31 are jointly and severally liable for

all of the illegal gains cumulatively made by all the noticees as

tabulated in table no. 16 which works out to Rs. 41.85 crore. 14. The WTM further found that some of the noticees named in

paragraph no. 30 of the impugned order were engaged in the similar

modus operandi with regard to another scrip. It may be noted here

that the appellants were not involved in the other scrip in question.

Considering the aforesaid, the WTM came to the conclusion in

paragraph no. 37 of the impugned order that the noticees may divert

the alleged unlawful gains before the investigation is concluded and

directions for disgorgement, if any, are passed and, therefore, by the

impugned order issued a slew of directions including impounding of

the alleged unlawful gains, freezing of their bank accounts and

further restraining them from accessing the securities market. 15. From perusal of the impugned order, the appellants are

connected to each other. The appellant Arshad Warsi admits that he

is connected to noticee no. 1 in connection with another professional

assignment with regard to the movie of noticee no. 1. The impugned

order however connects the appellant Arshad Warsi with noticee no.

1 through call data records and as per table no. 5 there are only two

calls between noticee no. 1 and the appellant Arshad Warsi had 11 between June 18, 2022 to September 30, 2022. Apart from the

aforesaid, there is no connection of the appellants with the other

noticees named in the impugned order except the appellants. 16. On the other hand, we find that :- 17. The only allegation against the appellants are that they are

volume creators and are connected to noticee no. 1. In this regard,

we find that the appellants had purchased the shares in July from

another volume creator and had sold it to another volume creator as

is clear from paragraph nos. 16.7 and 17.11 of the impugned order.

Thus, the appellants by selling the shares have made profit was not at

the expense of any unsuspecting gullible investor. 18. A person dabbles in the stock exchange to make profits and

there is no harm if a person buys and sells the shares to make profits. 13 In the instant case, the facts that the appellant bought the shares on

one occasion and then sold it does not make the appellants a volume

creator and, in any case, nothing has been shown to indicate any

violation of the securities laws by dubbing the appellants as volume

creators. 19. In the light of the aforesaid, we are of the considered view

that the WTM has passed the order in haste and without considering

the essential facts. In so far as the appellants are concerned, there is

no iota of evidence against the appellants to show that they were

engaged in a coordinated scheme to induce unsuspecting investors to

acquire securities in the scrip in question. There is no evidence to

show that the trades made by the appellants led to the increase in the

price of the scrip. There is no evidence to show that the sale of the

shares by the appellants was made to gullible unsuspecting investors.

There is no evidence to show that the appellants were involved in the

making, distribution, promotion and uploading of the videos on

YouTube channels. 20. Thus, merely by a reason of a professional connection

between noticee no. 1 and the appellant Arshad Warsi, at best may

give rise to a suspicion against the appellants but it cannot lead to

any conclusion that the appellants were engaged in a coordinated 14 scheme to induce unsuspected investors to acquire securities in the

company in question. 21. In addition to the above, we find that the WTM in table no.

16 of the impugned order has directed to disgorge the amount

individually as well as jointly and severally. The name of the

appellant Aahuti R. Mistry, noticee no. 27 is not included in table no.

16 and has not been directed to disgorge any amount. The said

appellant has only being named as a volume creator who had

purchased the shares and sold the same in patch 1 prior to the

uploading of the videos on the YouTube channels. We however find

that in spite of the fact that no direction has been issued to disgorge

any amount from noticee nos. 27, yet her bank account has been

frozen and has also been restrained from buying or selling or

accessing the securities market. Further, direction has been issued

not to alienate the assets or provide full inventory of the assets. In

our opinion, such directions are totally harsh and unwarranted in the

case of the noticee no. 27. 22. In view of the aforesaid, the direction issued by the WTM

against the appellants in appeal no. 284 of 2023 is also harsh and

unwarranted and cannot be sustained. 23. In North End Foods Marketing Pvt. Ltd. & Anr. vs. SEBI (supra), this Tribunal held as under :- 24. In Dr. Udyant Malhotra vs SEBI (supra), this Tribunal held

as under :- 25. Similar view was taken by this Tribunal in Affluence Fincon

Services Pvt. Ltd. & Ors. vs. SEBI ( supra) and Cameo Corporate

Services Limited vs. SEBI (supra). 26. In Radha Krishan Industries (supra), the Hon'ble Supreme

Court held as under :- 27. While considering the decision of the Gujarat High Court in Valerius Industries vs. Union of India (SCC OnLine Guj Para 53],

The Hon'ble Supreme Court quoted with approval as under :- 28. The Hon'ble Supreme Court further held :- 29. From the aforesaid, it is clear that ad-interim orders can be

passed in case of urgency or where it is found that the noticee is

about to dispose of the property. In the absence of any finding that

the appellants will defalcate the unlawful gains, the impounding

order constitutes malice in law. Further, the power must be exercised

with extreme care and caution and should be resorted to only as a last

resort or measure. Merely by stating that the appellants may divert

the unlawful gains is not based on any cogent evidence rather on

surmises and conjectures and formation of unguided subjected

satisfaction which is not permissible. 30. On the other hand, the respondent has relied upon a decision

of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Essar House Pvt. Ltd. vs. Arcellor

Mittal Nippon Steel India Ltd. [SLP (C) No. 3187 of 2021 decided

on September 14, 2022], wherein the Hon'ble Supreme Court held

that even on a strong possibility of diminution of assets would suffice 23 to attach the property. This decision, in our opinion, is not helpful to

the respondent and, in fact, helps the appellants. In this case, the

bank guarantee given by the respondent was not being refunded and

accordingly, the Hon'ble High Court directed Essar House Pvt. Ltd.

to deposit Rs. 47.41 crore which order was challenged before the

Hon'ble Supreme Court. The Hon'ble Supreme Court while

dismissing the appeal found that the Hon'ble High Court had

considered that the appellant was heavily indebted and did not have

the assets other than the assets disclosed in the affidavit in reply and,

therefore, in that light, the Hon'ble Supreme Court came to the

conclusion that even if that they are exist the strong possibility by

diminution of assets which was sufficient for the High Court to pass

an order to protect the interest of the respondent. The Hon'ble

Supreme Court, therefore, found that the attachment of the order was

justified. In the instant case, there is no such evidence. 31. We however find that there is an admission of the appellant

Arshad Warsi that he is connected with noticee no. 1 who is alleged

to have been the main player in the promoting the videos and thereby

misleading the investors. Investigations are still going on and the

possibility of the appellants being involved in the manipulative

scheme cannot be ruled out. However, at this stage, the impugned 24 order is bereft of any evidence against the appellants requiring

passing of such strong and harsh order. However, balance of

convenience is required to be considered at this stage. 32. Considering the aforesaid :- c. We also direct SEBI to complete the investigation

 within six months and initiate appropriate

 proceedings, if any, against the appellants. If the

 investigations remain incomplete and no proceedings

 are initiated, it will be open to the appellants to apply

 for modification of our order. d. Any observation, findings given in this order is only

 tentative in nature and will not affect the investigation.

 Further, neither party will rely upon any observation /

 finding in any proceedings before any authority.

 e. In the circumstances of the case, parties shall bear their

 own costs. 33. This order will be digitally signed by the Private Secretary

on behalf of the bench and all concerned parties are directed to act on

the digitally signed copy of this order. Certified copy of this order is

also available from the Registry on payment of usual charges. Justice Tarun Agarwala
 Presiding Officer

 Ms. Meera Swarup
 Technical Member
 PRAMILA Digitally signed by
 PRAMILA TANAJI
27.03.2023 TANAJI MISAL
PTM MISAL
 Date: 2023.03.27
 15:41:15 +05'30'