This Criminal Petition is filed under Section 482 of

Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 (for short 'BNSS') to

grant anticipatory bail to the petitioner/accused No.1 in crime

No.4101 of 2024 of Cyber Crimes Police Station, Cyberabad. The

offences alleged against the petitioner are under Sections 420 of

Indian Penal Code (for short ' I.P.C ') and under Section 66 (D) of

the Information Technology Act.. 2. The brief facts of the case are that on 30.06.2024,

Srinivasa Reddy Gopu filed a complaint stating that he was

defrauded by Al-Venture Capital Finance, led by Prof. Admir

Kadir and assistant Modi Chaturvedi. Petitioner invested

Rs.33,35,000/- after seeing a Facebook ad and being promised

high profits in crypto currency trading. Initially, he made

profits, but later lost money and was advised to add more funds.

He upgraded to a VIP account for faster withdrawals and

invested in "PTMX" coins. His total profit was shown as

Rs.99,00,000/-. However, when he requested for withdrawal,

he was asked to pay 3% verification amount. Realizing it was a 2 scam, he reported the fraud, seeking action against the

perpetrators for causing a wrongful loss of Rs.33,35,000/-. 3. Heard Sri K. Venkatesh Gupta, learned counsel appearing

on behalf of the petitioner as well as Sri Syed Yasar Mamoon,

learned Additional Public Prosecutor appearing on behalf of the

respondent-State. 4. Learned counsel for the petitioner submitted that the

petitioner was falsely implicated as accused No.l. Despite no

allegations against him in the complaint, he was named in the

Remand Case Diary when accused Nos.2 and 3 were arrested.

He further submitted that the implication of petitioner is solely

based on the alleged confessional statements of accused Nos.2

and 3. He contended that the petitioner assures the Court of his

permanent residence, willingness to furnish security and

solvent sureties, and cooperation with the investigation.

Petitioner undertakes not to tamper with evidence or interfere

with the investigation. If he is arrested his family will be put to

great hardship. Therefore, he prayed the Court to grant pre-

arrest bail to the petitioner by allowing this criminal petition. 5. On the other hand, learned Additional Public Prosecutor

opposed the submissions made by the learned counsel for the

petitioner stating that the allegations leveled against the 3 petitioner are serious in nature, huge amount is involved in this

case and investigation is still pending. The custody of petitioner

is necessary for further investigation. As such, prayed the

Court to dismiss the criminal petition. 6. Considering the submissions made by both the learned

counsel and a perusal of the material available on record, the

contention of learned counsel for the petitioner is that in the

complaint the mobile number of the petitioner or the account

number of the petitioner is not mentioned. Only basing on the

confession statement of A.2 and A.3, petitioner is implicated in

this case and he is no way connected to the offence. However,

the investigation is still in progress and the amount involved in

this case is huge and at this stage, it cannot be said that

petitioner is no way concerned with the offence. There are no

merits in this petition and the same is liable to be dismissed. 7. Accordingly, the Criminal Petition is dismissed. Miscellaneous petitions, pending, if any, shall stand closed. _______________
 K. SUJANA, J
Date :22.11.2024
Rds