Sixteenth Loksabha 

 

 

 
 

 an> 

 

Title: General discussion on the Budget for 2018-19 (Discussion not concluded). HON. SPEAKER: Now, we will start general discussion on the Union Budget. Shri Veerappa Moily. …..(Interruptions) SHRI M. VEERAPPA MOILY ( CHIKKABALLAPUR ): Madam Speaker, I thank you very much for providing me an opportunity to speak on the General Budget presented by our good friend, Shri Arun Jaitley. … (Interruptions) In fact, this is the fifth time that I am initiating debate on the Budget and my good friend, Shri Arun Jaitley, is quite excellent in articulating in whatever he would like to speak. … (Interruptions) If this is the way the ruling party would like to react on the … (interruptions) माननीय अध्यक्ष :सब एक दूसरे पर रिएक्ट कर रहे हैं,आप बात कीजिए । मैं क्या करूं । SHRI M. VEERAPPA MOILY : One must know that the small mind, which the Prime Minister talked about, lies there, not here. माननीय अध्यक्ष :आपसे सीखे होंगे,आप बात कीजिए । SHRI M. VEERAPPA MOILY : I am just telling you. … (interruptions)  I just thought that when these people speak about a big mind, a broader mind, a liberal mind, they should behave like that, which they do not. … (interruptions) 

The Parliamentary Affairs Minister has no word to say, to tell them to keep quiet, which they do not know, because this is the manner in which they have deliberated in the … (interruptions) 

THE MINISTER OF CHEMICALS AND FERTILIZERS AND MINISTER OF PARLIAMENTARY AFFAIRS (SHRI ANANTHKUMAR): Now, hon. Member, Shri Veerappa Moilyji is requesting for a very calm situation here, but the Congress people, especially under the leadership of Shrimati Sonia Gandhi, should be ashamed that they objected to the speech of Shri Narendra Modi, the Leader of the House. … (interruptions) उन्होंने जो किया है,वह महामहिम राष्ट्रपति जी का अपमान है। हम इसे बर्दाश्त नहीं कर सकते। अध्यक्षा जी,पूरा हाउस शांति से सुन रहा था,बिना किसी कारण लीडर ऑफ द हाउस को रोकने की कोशिश की गई,माननीय प्रधानमंत्री जी को रोकने की कोशिश की। मुझे लगता है यह बहुत ही शर्मनाक है। सोनिया गांधी जी,यूपीए की चेयरपर्सन हैं,कांग्रेस की अध्यक्षा रही हैं। वह जानती हैं। आप भी इस हाउस में थीं, हम भी इस हाउस में थे, मनमोहन सिंह जी जब प्रधानमंत्री थे, हमने कभी उन्हें रोकने का काम नहीं किया। हमने अच्छा आचरण किया, लेकिन प्रधानमंत्री जी को रोकने का और उनको न बोलने देने का एक अक्षम्य अपराध कांग्रेस पार्टी ने किया है। हमारे सभी एम.पीज आक्रोशित हैं।  संसदीय लोकतंत्र आदान-प्रदान से चलता है। यदि वे हमें सुनेंगे तो यहां के हमारे सांसद उनको सुनेंगे। यदि वे हमको नहीं सुनेंगे तो यहां के सांसद उनको क्यों सुनेंगे?यदि वे देश के प्रधानमंत्री जी का अपमान करने की कोशिश करेंगे,प्रधानमंत्री जी को रोकने की कोशिश करेंगे,लीडर ऑफ द हाउस को तसल्ली से नहीं सुनेंगे तो उनको याद रखना चाहिए, उनकी समझ में आना चाहिए कि यह हाउस भी कांग्रेस के किसी नेता को सुनने के लिए तैयार नहीं रहेगा । … (व्यवधान)ऐसी दादागारी से और ऐसे रवैये से आप कुछ नहीं कर सकते हैं। आपसे मेरा निवेदन है कि बजट के ऊपर हम बहस करना चाहते हैं,आप बहस करवाइए । हमारे सांसदों का आक्रोश है, वे आक्रोश का प्रदर्शन करेंगे । माननीय अध्यक्ष :आप लोग बैठ जाइए । Do you not want a discussion? … (interruptions) माननीय अध्यक्ष :आप बैठ जाइए, उनको बोलने दीजिए। कुछ ऑब्जेक्शनेबल लगा तो आप बोलिएगा । … (interruptions) 

HON. SPEAKER: At least, let him start first. … (interruptions) माननीय अध्यक्ष :वीरप्पा मोईली जी, आप बोलिए । SHRI M. VEERAPPA MOILY : Madam, I am speaking. … (interruptions) माननीय अध्यक्ष :आप अपने लोगों को बैठने के लिए बोलिए । आप अपनी बात बोलिए । … (व्यवधान) HON. SPEAKER: I am allowing you. … (interruptions) माननीय अध्यक्ष :केवल इन्हीं की बात रिकॉर्ड में जाएगी । … (व्यवधान) HON. SPEAKER: Only Shri Veerappa Moily’s speech will go on record. … (व्यवधान) माननीय अध्यक्ष : उन्हीं का भाषण रिकॉर्ड में जाएगा । अब ऐसे ही चल रहा है। किसको कौन समझाए? न इनको कोई समझा सकता है और न ही आपको कोई समझा सकता है। आप लोग बैठ जाइए। Interruptions …*   

SHRI M. VEERAPPA MOILY : Madam Speaker, it is all right if the hon. Minister for Parliamentary Affairs would like to run the House like this. … (interruptions) 

SHRI K. C. VENUGOPAL ( ALAPPUZHA ): He is a model Minister of Parliamentary Affairs. … (interruptions) 

SHRI ANANTHKUMAR : What about the Leader of the Opposition? … (interruptions) What about the UPA Chairperson? … (interruptions) What about the Congress Party? … (interruptions) What were you doing for the last one-and-a-half hours? … (interruptions) What were you doing for the last one-and-a-half hours when the Prime Minister was speaking? … (interruptions) 

SHRI M. VEERAPPA MOILY : Madam, I would like to know this. … (interruptions) 

SHRI ANANTHKUMAR : You cannot surmise what Shri Jyotiraditya M. Scindia was doing. … (interruptions) माननीय अध्यक्ष :मोइली जी,आप बोलिए। … (interruptions) माननीय अध्यक्ष :देखिए आप अपने ही सदस्य को डिस्ट्रब कर रहे हैं । … (interruptions) 

HON. SPEAKER : Let him speak. … (interruptions) 

SHRI M. VEERAPPA MOILY : Madam Speaker, this is most unfortunate. … (interruptions) When the Parliamentary Affairs Minister … (interruptions) 

SHRI ANANTHKUMAR : It is not unfortunate. … (interruptions) You are unfortunate. … (interruptions) 

SHRI M. VEERAPPA MOILY : Madam, kindly look at his body language when he is speaking. … (interruptions) 

HON. SPEAKER : Actually, everything happening here is unfortunate. … (interruptions) 

HON. SPEAKER : Everybody’s body language is … 

… (interruptions) 

HON. SPEAKER : Nothing will go on record. Interruptions …*   

HON. SPEAKER : Everything that is going on is unruly. … (interruptions) माननीय अध्यक्ष :आप बैठिए । मोइली जी, आप बोलिए । … (interruptions) 

SHRI M. VEERAPPA MOILY : Madam, we have all been elected in 2014 by creating confusion and disorder in the country and telling all lies. … (interruptions) You will have to wait one more year to go. … (interruptions) I can have patience. … (interruptions) They will have one more year to go, and that is all. … (interruptions) माननीय अध्यक्ष :आप बैठिए ।  मोइली जी, सिर्फ  बजट  पर बोलेंगे और वही बात रिकॉर्ड में जाएगी । ऐसा नहीं होता है। पहले आप बैठिए । … (interruptions) 

HON. SPEAKER : Let him speak. … (interruptions) माननीय अध्यक्ष :मोइली जी, आप बोलिए। अपनी बात शुरू कीजिए । … (interruptions) 

SHRI M. VEERAPPA MOILY : Madam Speaker, the behaviour of these hon. Members remind me of the story of Bhasmasura who would like to put their respective hands on themselves and burn themselves even before the 2019 elections. … (interruptions) I do not think that we can help them. … (interruptions) Only God alone can help them, if there is a God. … (interruptions) 

          So, Madam Speaker, I do not know whether the Finance Minister sitting here would like to get this Budget passed or not or he would like to go away without any debate. … (interruptions) He has to make this very clear. … (interruptions) It is the duty of the Government to cooperate and to run the business of the House. … (interruptions) This is the Parliamentary convention. … (interruptions) Today, it appears to me that the ruling Party does not want to cooperate with the Finance Minister to get the Bill passed. … (interruptions) So, I cannot help; you cannot help; and only they should help themselves. … (interruptions) 

          Today, I would like to say that the Budget has been presented on 1st, and I have a few points to highlight. … (interruptions) This is a federal Budget, which should be so. … (interruptions) This is a federal Government, but what we see here is that I can narrate a number of instances where it does not reflect the federal character of the Budget. … (interruptions) Here, particularly, in the roads and infrastructure projects, they have charged cess. … (interruptions) 

          By charging cess, they want to inappropriate the revenue which is due to State Governments. Excise Duty will be given to the divisible pool, i.e. 42 per cent. …(interruptions) The divisible pool should be given to the States. Even in the case of petroleum, they would like to put the cess of Rs. 2 per litre and inappropriate the entire amount. If they put the cess, the entire thing will come to the Government of India. The Budget is a serious assault on the federal concept of economy of this country. …(interruptions) 

          As far as direct taxes are concerned, they have levied the Long-Term Capital Gains tax. When our UPA-I Government was there, we removed the Long-Term Capital Gains Tax and replaced it by Securities Transaction Tax, as it was good for compliance. That has not had any adverse impact on the money market. But now, Securities Transaction Act continues. They have not repealed it. In addition to that, they will have the legislation on the capital gains at the rate of 10 per cent. It is a double jeopardy. That is why there is a total collapse of the stock market. They had an eye on the capital market, it was rising and they were very happy that the stock is rising. Now, they have come to the abysmal low.  …(interruptions) 

          With regard to the disinvestment, the very purpose is lost. Out of Rs. 82,000 crore, Rs. 52,000 crore is the disinvestment of 51 per cent of the shares of the Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited which is a Public Sector Company. …(interruptions) One public sector company’s share is purchased by another public sector company. The very purpose of igniting the capital market has been totally gone away. This is only a make-up to show that they have succeeded in getting more disinvestment. …(interruptions) 

          Madam, I was a Petroleum Minister. We handled all the public sector oil companies. Unlike the banks, all the public sector oil industries are sound. They were earning profit. …(interruptions) They were contributing to the purchasing power of the people. But now, just like banks they will become sick, they would also make these oil companies bankrupt. …(interruptions) As a result, there will be a total casualty. What are they doing in disinvestment? They intend to sell the Air India totally. The hon. Prime Minister was telling us in the morning that UPA had no aviation policy at all. …(interruptions) We never wanted to have any aviation policy of straightaway selling the Air India to the private sector. We did not want that to happen. …(interruptions) 

          Now, they are going to sell it to the private people. …(interruptions) I can understand opening up shares to the private party. But selling Air India wholly is the most detrimental thing in the country. They are not improving. …(interruptions)We had built the biggest Paradip Refinery in Orissa which was absolutely built by the UPA-I and UPA-II Government. That was about to be commissioned. …(interruptions) Because of some cyclone, we could not organise a programme for the hon. Prime Minister. Of course, I am happy that the present Prime Minister chose to go and inaugurate the Paradip Refinery. It provided lakhs and lakhs of jobs and it also helped setting up of downstream petrochemicals projects. That is the project which can create jobs. That is how we created jobs. However, this Government has no sense even to acknowledge it while inaugurating the work done by the previous Government. They want to own everything. They think that within a month or two of marriage babies will be born and they can own them. This is what the philosophy of the present Government. We had worked on another project of biggest oil refinery in Barmer, Rajasthan. My idea was that we should create another prosperous economy like the Middle East. There is plenty of crude oil in the desert. To transport it to a Gujarat refinery, it requires a lot of money. That is why we wanted to put up the Barmer oil refinery with the support of the State Government. We had worked out all technical viabilities, work has been done, financial resources had been mobilised, and UPA Chairman Shrimati Soniaji launched it. The estimated cost of the project is Rs. 42000 crore. This was done with the collaboration of Rajasthan Government. However, the present Rajasthan Government came and immediately said that they do not want it. They had given it up. However, about three months back, after  a lapse of three and half years Prime Minister and the very same BJP Chief Minister Shrimati Vasundhara Rajeji relaunched the same project. There is a cost escalation of more than Rs.5,000 crore. One can imagine the amount of wealth and job lost! We would have utilised the crude oil produced in that region. My idea was to make this country oil self-sufficient by 2030, and we would have definitely achieved it. In fact, the whole scheme had been given up. We had already made viability studies on coal bed methane, for shale gas and also for crude oil. But today they are not interested in this; they are only interested in purchasing oil from outside. Why? It is because they think that they cannot get commissions if there is oil exploration here. I think it is their old traditional thinking that purchase of crude oil gets a lot of wealth for them. …(Interruptions)… 

          In my fifty years of political life I have seen enough such people who create ruckus in the House. I also know how they are going to go down after some time if this is how they behave. I think all of them will not get elected and come even to the opposition, forget about becoming MPs. They deserve what they are. Madam, the Ministry of Petroleum in the UPA Government constructed three caverns to store crude oil to meet contingency in times of distress. One was constructed in Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh; another was constructed in Mangalore and the third was constructed at Padoor in  Udupi in Karnataka. Ultimately, they were all commissioned. At the time when the cost of crude oil was low, any wise people --  if they are wise people, would have filled those caverns with low-priced crude oil. But what has this Government done? All the three caverns which were built spending crores of rupees are left vacant. They could have filled up crude oil and taken advantage of the lower price of the crude oil. … (Interruptions) Today, they would have gained thousands and thousands of crores of rupees and there would not have been any problem with regard to the finances of the Government. … (Interruptions) They did not do that and they just want to put blame on our Government. As far as the exploration policy of the present Government is concerned they do not possess any vision.  … (Interruptions) As I already said, UPA had planned to cut down imports to 50 per cent by 2020, 70 per cent by 2025 and to empower India to become self-sufficient, totally eliminating import of crude oil by 2030. … (Interruptions) But the NDA Government has failed to take advantage of this window of opportunity. They have failed because they are importing it, either from the Middle East. Now, they have opened up a new door to Australia. … (Interruptions) What happened to the agreement which was done with Kazakhistan? I had personally gone to Kazakhistan and we had entered into  agreement with Afghanistan and Pakistan to put that from Kazakhistan gas pipeline and the cheapest ever possible gas will be brought from Kazakhईstan to Afghanistan, from Afghanistan to Pakistan and from Pakistan to India. … (Interruptions) Today, that could have been the cheapest gas. Now, they have forgotten that. They think that there is somebody in Australia or there is some middleman … (Interruptions)  to strike a deal and they speak of corruption. If they are really interested in fighting against corruption, why should they hold back the Lokpal Act which was meant to fight corruption? … (Interruptions) There was a big agitation all over the country for passing of Lokpal Act during our regime. We readily accepted it, constituted a committee alongwith Shri Anna Hazare and others and we passed the Lokpal Act with a genuine interest in fighting against corruption. … (Interruptions) They should have implemented the Lokpal Act . The very fact that they did not, means they have something to hide, something to suppress, something to hold back. I will come back to the Rafale fighter deal at last. As far as Aadhaar is concerned, the BJP opposed it totally. They said, “No Aadhaar”. … (Interruptions) Despite that, I, as the Petroleum Minister, was the first Minister to initiate a step for seeding 295 districts for implementation of Direct Benefit Scheme in respect of LPG and elimination of all   duplicate customers.… (Interruptions) We got it done, Aadhaar was implemented and direct benefit transfer was done. They talk of Ujjwala. This was initiated and implemented by me to provide free gas. These people have abandoned it.… (Interruptions) They think that the Aadhaar is the best thing and ultimately, they can get credit. As far as GST is concerned, it is said not only opined by Y.V. Reddy, former Governor of Reserve Bank of India, but also by Raghuram Rajan, that GST is not free from flaws. … (Interruptions) I also said, ‘you send it to the Standing Committee on Finance and we will refine it’, just like VAT, where we had something to do with evolving the VAT. They did not agree. They had their own man, Shri Bhupendra Yadav from Rajya Sabha and he was made the Chairperson of the Joint Select Committee and hurriedly they brought about the reports. … (Interruptions) There are two things which disturbed and disrupted the economy of this country. One is GST. That is why GST is so vulnerable. … (Interruptions) In fact, just before the Gujarat election, they have restructured and reduced taxation rate on 276 items. This means, GST could be politically manipulated just to get them elected. Anyway, people know the message and they will not go by that. … (Interruptions) It will take two years, as has been said by Dr. Y.V. Reddy and Dr. Raghuram Rajan, for the economy to come back. There has been more than multiple rate reductions in GST because of the faulty implementation of GST and because of the demonetisation policy which has been abruptly brought in. … (Interruptions) The Finance Minister will have to be accountable to Parliament. … (Interruptions) You will lose your credibility. … (Interruptions) Only question is this. You have presented the Budget and also introduced the Finance Bill. We would like to know how much is the revenue collection you expect from GST, what would be the loss, what would be the deficit and what would be the States’ share you of compensation would have to pay. … (Interruptions)They would have to pay a lot of compensation to the States; maybe more than Rs. 10,000 crore. It did not happen when the UPA Government implemented VAT even though we provided for compensation in the VAT Act . … (Interruptions) Ultimately, in the end, we did not pay even a single paisa as compensation. That was the faultless tax regime! … (Interruptions) Now, it is full of fault. That is why in the ultimate analysis they will have to pay more than Rs. 12,000 crore or even more to the States. … (Interruptions) I have some tables to show how much each State is losing because of the cess imposed on products. … (Interruptions) As far as Andhra Pradesh is concerned, because of the cess, they would be losing Rs. 511 crore per annum; Bihar would be losing Rs. 1,147 crore per annum. … (Interruptions) These are the losses for them every year. As far as Karnataka is concerned, they would be losing Rs. 559 crore. … (Interruptions) Madhya Pradesh would be losing Rs. 896 crore; as far as Uttar Pradesh is concerned, the losses would be Rs. 2,131 crore. … (Interruptions) Our MPs should be accountable to their constituencies in their respective States. … (Interruptions) West Bengal will be losing Rs. 896 crore. This is the fate! … (Interruptions) Do you think that the States would be compensated in lieu of loss from GST? Even if there is compensation, since there is no method or system, it could be politically misused. … (Interruptions) They may give more compensation to their favourite States and ultimately in the final allocation there would be total distortion. I do not think it can be done unless they restructure the entire GST and make it one rate. … (Interruptions) The idea was to make GST to mean, ‘one nation, one tax’. They are interested only in giving out slogans like ‘one nation, one tax’ but here we have, ‘one nation, multiple taxes’. This is the fate! … (Interruptions)They are even talking about ‘one nation, one election’ and so many other things. They are saying that UPA-I and UPA-II were responsible for the paralysis in the implementation of these programmes. … (Interruptions) For the first time, we wanted to make ‘one nation, one power grid’ when I was the Power Minister. Subsequently, Shri Scindia succeeded me in that Ministry. … (Interruptions) In the few months’ time, I connected Sholapur and Raichur at a cost of Rs. 1,000 crore by which ‘one nation, one power grid’ was initiated in this country by our Government. These are the few things which we would like to say but they would not understand this language. … (Interruptions) Our hon. Prime Minister gave a speech at Davos the other day. The increase in our import duty runs contrary to what the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi said at Davos. … (Interruptions) What did he say?  He said : “World is withdrawing from globalisation, but India will continue globalisation”.  This is what Shri Narendra Modi has said.  What has he done?  He has talked against the import duty and acted also against it.  I think there is not much difference to what the US President Trump has said about ‘protectionism’.  I do not think this kind of a perversity of Trump is worth emulating by the Indian Prime Minister.  It goes against the culture and ethos of India.  He has forgotten that while giving speech,  he gets possessed and that is what he has done in the morning also.  We do not mind but ultimately by getting possessed one loses the reasoning.  That is what has happened with the Prime Minister’s reply today.    It looks to the public and also to all of us that he is desperate on something.  I do not know what it is that he is desperate. …(Interruptions)  This reflects the credibility of the PM’s statement in the world fora.  This should never be done.  We do not think we have any other example of any previous Prime Minister talking one thing in the world forum and doing something contrary in the domestic front.  … (Interruptions) We have large item of spending on the MSP and National Health Support Scheme.  The question is whether the Government has the money.  It is faulty.  The Prime Minister spoke on the issue of farmers and MSP.  As far as the Prime Minister Bima Yojana is concerned, 90 per cent of the premium collected from the poor and common farmers has been misappropriated by all the private insurance companies and only 10 per cent goes back to farmers.  Last year unlawful bonanza worth Rs.994 crore was made by the private insurers as against the wishes of the farmers.  What is the bona fide of this programme? … (Interruptions) We would like to know what is it that we are voting for.  How much have they provided for the health sector?  They have provided only Rs.2000 crore whereas more than Rs.2,60,000 crore is required for implementing the National Health Support System.  Where is the money? … (Interruptions) As far as the MSP is concerned, we have no idea how big it is and how it is going to be implemented.  Different arms of Government are telling different stories.  There is a complete confusion.  You are promising one thing and incorporating another thing in the Budget.  The farmers are committing suicide.  There is no solution. … (Interruptions) As far as MSP is concerned, the Food Corporation of India cannot procure wheat from Punjab or for that matter it has stopped procuring wheat from anywhere.  It has already become sick. … (Interruptions) As far as the farmers’ insurance and MSP are concerned they will work through the Government sponsored insurance companies.  This will only help private sector insurance companies to make large profit.  It is commonly said that it is the ‘Suit Boot ki Sarkar’ and accordingly the whole plan and the schemes are being worked out. … (Interruptions) We had a steady erosion in Defence Budget.  It is now less than 1.8 per cent of GDP.  The Government speaks about the Defence of the country.  Is it possible to defend the country with a meagre allocation of 1.8 per cent of GDP which has been made to the Defence Sector? What will happen to the security environment?  What will happen to the potential threat?  We are playing with the security.  This Government is playing with the security of the nation.  In fact, they hurry up everything because they know very well that whatever benefits them, they can do it… (Interruptions). One such instance is Rafale fighter aircraft.  This Government compromised the national interest and they also compromised the national security.  In fact, this is the biggest scam of this Government apart from the Gujarat Refinery (GSPs) take over which is a scam of Rs.20,000 crore … (Interruptions).   There is a complete non-transparency in the Rafale deal.  There is complete non-transparency in disclosure of purchase price of aircraft.  There is flagrant violation of the mandatory provisions of Defence Procurement Procedure and prior clearance from Cabinet Committee on Security, sacrificing the national interests on transfer of technology … (Interruptions). In fact, the Defence Minister, Shrimati Nirmala Sitharaman, in a press conference in Raksha Bhawan publicly directed the Defence Secretary to share the purchase price of 36 Rafale Aircraft.  Nothing happened thereafter … (Interruptions).  The allegations on Bofors deal is buried.  It is dead and gone.  From the Supreme Court to the CBI court, they have all closed it… (Interruptions). As far as Rafale is concerned, nothing happened thereafter.  Tragically, the Defence Minister has finally refused to disclose the purchase price in Parliament on 5th Feburary, 2018.  With whom they would like to share it?   In fact, Rafale deal has left more questions than answers.  It is time for the Prime Minister to answer to the questions of the people of this country and to the Parliament… (Interruptions). I urge upon the Government to come out with a White Paper with regard to the purchase of this aircraft.  In fact, for the purchase of this very same aircraft during UPA regime, the negotiated price was Rs.526.1 crore as against the present rate negotiated price of Rs.1570.8 crore as per current exchange rate.   Who is responsible for the loss to the exchequer?  This has to be answered.  It is the biggest scam.  People are talking about it … (Interruptions). Now I understand as to why they are not interested in implementing Lokpal.  They know very well that if the Lokpal were to be there, today this would have been the first petition to go against the Prime Minister and this Government to inquire into the Rafale deal.  If they are so courageous, let them constitute Lokpal.  This will be the first complaint against the Prime Minister and this Government … (Interruptions). What happened to Make in India.  I would like to say what do the people say because they are not prepared to hear it … (Interruptions).    This is a New York Times item in Asia Pacific Column.  They say: They  talked about recapitalization of public sector banks. HON. SPEAKER: Now, you have availed the whole time of your Party. … (Interruptions) SHRI M. VEERAPPA MOILY : No, Madam. I am just concluding. … (Interruptions) HON. SPEAKER: Okay. … (Interruptions) SHRI M. VEERAPPA MOILY : Madam, they promised recapitalization of public sector banks. How are they going to do it?  … (Interruptions).  What is the roadmap? When are they  going to do it? But if they do not do it, then a total disaster for the banking sector is awaited.  … (Interruptions) As far as job creation is concerned, they have failed. It is a jobless economy with this Government. … (Interruptions) And if they go on shouting like this inside and outside the House,  what else would be there except jobless economy? … (Interruptions). Their job is only to shout, not to contribute to the dynamics of this economy! … (Interruptions). I do not think our Finance Minister will get any support from such people who are only interested in shouting and creating confusion and disorder. … (Interruptions).  When there is a disorder inside and outside the House by their own colleagues, how can you expect an order and a sustainable economic development? … (Interruptions). That can never happen. Anyway, let the fate hang on you … (Interruptions).. Ultimately, they will make India BJP-mukt India. That is what they are trying to do … (Interruptions). Petrol and diesel prices are rising. There is no strategy spelt out in the Budget to control and regulate it; and how to meet the challenge that is before the country.  With these words, I conclude. … (Interruptions). HON. SPEAKER: Thank you very much. डॉ.रमेश पोखरियाल निशंक ( हरिद्वार ) : माननीय अध्यक्ष जी, मैं माननीय वित्त मंत्री जी द्वारा पेश किये गये आम बजट का हार्दिक स्वागत करताहूँ, इसके साथ-साथ इसके पक्ष में बोलने के लिए खड़ा हुआ हूँ। …(व्यवधान) माननीय अध्यक्ष : कृपया बैठ जाइए । …(व्यवधान) डॉ.रमेश पोखरियाल निशंक : मेरा पूर्ण विश्वास है कि प्रधानमंत्रीजी की अगुवाई में माननीय वित्तमंत्रीजी द्वारा लाया गया यह बजट विकासोन्मुखी,सुशासन,गरीबी उन्मूलन, सामाजिक सुशासन, आर्थिक जीवन में परिवर्तन कर रोजगार सृजन में एक नया अध्याय लिखने में निश्चित रूप से एक महत्त्वपूर्ण भूमिका निभाने में सक्षम होगा । आप जानती हैं कि गरीबी उन्मूलन में ऊर्जा,पर्यावरण संरक्षण या नये संसाधन जुटाने का प्रश्न हो,सभी क्षेत्रों में प्रधानमंत्रीजी और वित्तमंत्रीजी ने अपनी दूरदर्शिता,नियोजन क्षमता, अद्भुत नेतृत्व और प्रखरता का परिचय दिया है। यह बजट हमारी सरकार की अंत्योदय नीतियों को प्रतिपादित करते हुए, एकात्म मानववाद के सिद्धांतों की आधारशिला पर टिका है। इसलिए मैं समझता हूँ कि यह बजट वित्त मंत्री जी का एक खूबसूरत गुलदस्ता है, जो “जन-जन को हरसाएगा,नव जल-थल में प्रगति प्रतीक बन यह जीवन को महकाएगा ।” इसके लिए मैं वित्तमंत्री जी को बहुत सारी बधाइयाँ देना चाहता हूँ। पंडित दीन दयाल उपाध्याय जी ने कहा था कि कार्ल मार्क्स ने थीसिस, एपी-थीसिस और संलेक्षण के सिद्धांत को आधार मानकर इतिहास और अर्थ-शास्त्र का विश्लेषण किया था । डार्विन ने केवल योग्यतम की उत्तरजीविता के सिद्धांत को एकमात्र आधार माना । जबकि हमने पूरे देश में सभी जीवों का मूल मंत्र- ‘एकात्मता’देखा है। पंडित दीनदयाल उपाध्यायजी ने कहा था कि जब तक अंतिम कोने में बैठे हुए व्यक्ति के चेहरे पर हम हँसी नहीं ला देते,तब तक हमारा देश विकसित हो गया है या हमारे देश की प्रगति हो गयी है, हमारा देश विकास की राह पर है, यह कहा नहीं जा सकता । पंडित दीनदयाल उपाध्यायजी ने एकात्म मानववाद और सांस्कृतिक राष्ट्रवाद में कहा है कि यह धरती हमारी मां है और इस धरती के हम पुत्र हैं। धरती पर रहने वाला हर व्यक्ति विश्व बंधुत्व की भावना से हमारा अंग है। इसीलिए:- की बात की है। उस कुटुम्ब को "सर्वे भवन्तु सुखिन :, सर्वे भवन्तु निरामया :" Chennai city has been growing rapidly and traffic volumes have increased greatly. To promote and ease public transport of various forms including metro rail and to ensure that the share ofpublic transportation in Chennai city is substantially increased was accorded top most priority by our beloved leader Puratchi Thalaivi Amma during her golden reign. Puratchi Thalaivi Amma was instrumental and played a stellar role in implementing the Chennai Metro Rail Project Phase-I. the Chennai Metro Rail Project Phase-II has been included in the rolling plan for the current year for funding by the Japan International Co-operation Agency. For the expansion of the Chennai Metro Rail Project along three corridors – north-west to south east, west to east, and an orbital corridor – an estimated cost of Rs. 44,000 crore have already been approved by the Government of Tamil Nadu. I urge the Union Government to provide all necessary clearances to fulfil the dream of our visionary leader Puratchi Thalaivi Amma. In Chennai city, Central and Egmore railway stations are strategically important in the sub-urban railway EMU line connecting Chennai with several stations in Kanthipuram, Tiruvallur and Vellore districts. There is an urgent need to have a skywalk connecting Central and Egmore stations. Many important bridges and railway crossings near Central and Egmore stations and in Chennai, particularly the Elephant Gate Bridge need to be renovated and strengthened. The Union Government should take up the redevelopment and modernisation of railway stations at Chennai Central and Egmore in one go and provide fillip to all the railway stations. The Union Finance Minister had announced that a new Health Protection Scheme for 50 crore people would be launched to provide insurance cover up to Rs. 5 lakh for poor families that require hospitalisation.We welcome this move and request the Government of India to converge their new scheme with similar schemes that State Governments may already be implementing, like the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme in Tamil Nadu. The taxation measures on the personal income tax side, however, fall short of the expectations of the salaried middle classes.The levy of surcharge is a retrograde measure by which the Centre is trying to avoid sharing its tax proceeds with States. The people of Tamil Nadu have their genuine expectations still left unfulfilled. I urge the Union Government to consider in this Budget the genuine demands of the Government of TamilNadu to immediately release an adequate relief grant to Tamil Nadu for being devastated by two back-to-back calamities of severe nature in the years 2015 and 2016. Our beloved immortal leader Puratchi Thalaivi Amma had consistently urged the Union Government for the inter-linking of peninsular rivers and for nationalisation of rivers. The Government has notified a Special Committee for Inter-linking of Rivers so that water resources of the country are optimally utilised. This has to be expedited. Sensing the importance of cleaning, restoration, and conservation of rivers, our visionary immortal leader Puratchi Thalaivi Amma had announced Tamil Nadu Vision-2023, a far-sighted, multi-disciplinary Mission, giving utmost importance to create and achieve a clean and pollution-free environment.The document includes profiles of 217 infrastructure projects in six major sectors – energy, transport, industrial and commercial infrastructure, urban infrastructure and services, agriculture, and human development – and sets a target of Rs. 15 lakh crore investments. The Chennai Rivers Restoration Trust has been set up to reduce the sewage let into the rivers and other water bodies of Chennai mega city.Apart from the Adyar River Eco-Energy Fund to restore lake, water bodies in Chennai and other cities, another major initiative will be undertaken by launching the Cooum River Restoration Project to be implemented at a total cost of Rs. 3,833 crore in five years with Chennai River Restoration Trust as the nodal agency. This needs adequate support from the Union Government. The major projects in the pipeline are creation and restoration of water bodies in Chennai and adjoining areas at a cost of Rs. 500 crore and restoration of Chennai waterways at a cost of Rs. 10,000 crore. The remediation of Perungudi and Kodungaiyur dumpyards and a greenfield regional landfill waste processing facility at a cost of Rs. 150 crore each are also needed.An integrated waste collection and transfer project at a cost of Rs. 200 crore is also required. The Greater Chennai’s Slum-free City programme requires Rs. 25,000 crore which includes a 100 per cent sewerage coverage programme at a cost of Rs. 7,000 crore. All these need generous support and funding from the union Government. The Government has included all masala ingredients required for the popular Budget.  The responsibility of implementing the schemes and projects envisaged within the stipulated time is with the Union Government.  We hope that the Union Government would address the requirements of people in various States without derailing the federal system and the democratic principles provided by the Constitution of India.  Thank you, Sir. *SHRI IDRIS ALI ( BASIRHAT ): On the Motion of Thanks on the President's Address in the Houses of Parliament on 29 January, 2018, I like to put the following issues: With these few words, I support the Union Budget 2018-2019. SHRI TATHAGATA SATPATHY ( DHENKANAL ): Sir, at the outset, let me, with folded hands to both sides of this House, express my opinion that I was very sad to see the way the Congress Benches opposed while the Leader of the House was speaking today earlier this morning.  The Leader of the House is the Leader of the House because people have chosen him, may not be directly, but because he has a larger number. Similarly, I was very surprised and very hurt to notice the way the Treasury Benches Members were behaving. They were pointing and aggressively working like they are going to beat up everybody else just with brute  majority.  It was very painful, because the Treasury Benches should not be doing that. On the other hand, here we see colleagues, Mr. Thota, who  sits right here  and the colleagues from the TDP fighting for their just cause of Andhra Pradesh. The way it has been neglected by this Government, our empathies are with the people of Andhra Pradesh.  They are an ally of the Government; they are part of the evil formation of the Government. But now they have realized that they have to get out … (Interruptions) HON. DEPUTY SPEAKER: Mr. Satpathy, are you supporting the Polavaram project? … (Interruptions) SHRI BHARTRUHARI MAHTAB ( CUTTACK ):   We cannot support the Polavaram project.  We have said it many times.  We will sit down with the Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh and settle it … (Interruptions) SHRI TATHAGATA SATPATHY : Sir, this time is not my time. The opposition is playing its game. You have to learn tolerance. It is sad that they do not even know or they are not even aware that there is a word called `tolerance’.  Therefore, it shows in their behaviour. God bless them; let them grow up. Sir, this year’s Budget is supposed to focus on a few special points.  My learned friend Saugata Babu has spoken in details. He is a senior colleague; I should not be calling him a friend.  I am very inferior to him. But he has spoken in details.  I would not like to get into those details.  But it focusses on agriculture, rural economy, health, especially for senior citizens.  This is the rhetoric of the Ruling Party, or as they say jumla. There is an adage in English which says : ‘Living in a Fool’s Paradise.’ Now, let us imagine an universe or a world or a paradise inhabited by the Moody’s -- nothing to do with Modi --  Moody’s, IMF, World Bank. There you go and live and you think that this is a beautiful world. But unfortunately, the people of India are not capable of inhabiting that world. That is an exclusive world reserved for a few rich people, whose company they enjoy. It shows it.  They speak about rural India; they speak about agriculture, but their whole action goes contrary to what they speak.  They speak about bullet; they do work for bullet trains.  They put up institutes for training people to run the bullet train, to repair the bullet train. I wonder how do people in the rural areas of Bengal, of Odisha, of Andhra Pradesh, of Tami Nadu, of Chhattisgarh, of Jharkhand benefit from any bullet train.  What relevance does it have in their lives? I am unable to understand that. They should admit.  Now, the time has come because their D-Day is closing. There is one little indication, which our yellow coloured colleagues here are showing.  If you remember, in the last 15th Lok Sabha, how the Congress got pulled down with the curse of the Telugus, of the Andhrites.  It was not only the peppers spray by which Mr. Mahtab was also affected badly, but it was the atmosphere that the people from Andhra created that the Congress got damned. Sir,  again, our colleagues from Andhra, right in front of you, are opposing this Government. We can clearly see what is the fate of this party in power, now. Sir, our dear and most beloved hon. Prime Minister, this morning, said that any idea – he spoke in Hindi and  I am not able to speak that language – anything new that comes to him, he is willing to accept it.  At that very time,   there was a disturbance and I did not want to further add to the disturbance. But I was wondering, in all these four and half years, have they accepted a single idea, a single amendment, a single suggestion from the non-ruling parties? The proof is again right in front of us.  Their own allies are complaining.  Not a single idea has been accepted. What jumla is being talked about in this House? This is jumla. They have deprived my State in many ways.  My State alone gives around Rs. 17,000 crore to Rs. 18,000 crore annually just with Railways – carriage, carrying of iron ore, chrome, coal and so many minerals.  Unfortunately, nothing has been earmarked for Odisha.  We had asked for a meagre sum of Rs. 6,000 crore.  Sir, if the British would not have been there and had they not required to connect Chennai to Kolkata, probably Odisha would not have had a railway line till now; and because we had coal, they drew a line up to Talcher, which is part of my Constituency.  We are lucky because of our natural resources, and not because of any largesse from this side or that side. The people of Odisha are blessed by Lord Jagannath. Sir, for our irrigation, for our railways,  our Chief Minister, Shri Navin Patnaik had made  some demands long before the Budget but nothing was granted, nothing was given.  This is not their kindness that we want.  It is our demand. We are giving this much money annually.  This is our due. But we are not getting it. Sir, they talk about credit to lessee farmers, to tenant farmers. SHRI NISHIKANT DUBEY ( GODDA ): Sir… (Interruptions) SHRI THATAGATA SATPATHY : I do not know why Nishikantji always troubles me … (Interruptions) Is he assigned by his party to trouble me?  I am not yielding … (Interruptions) If you have good manners, you do not disturb me … (Interruptions) SHRI NISHIKANT DUBEY : Sir, what is this? HON. DEPUTY-SPEAKER:  I will look into that. SHRI THATAGATA SATPATHY :      Sir, they talk about credit to lessee farmers, tenant farmers … (Interruptions) Sir, really,  without disturbing the landholders’ rights, can the lessee farmer, Bhaga Chasi  – we call them Bhaga Chasi – really get his dues? Can he get insurance? Can he get credit facilities?  This is delightfully opaque.  Only these people can do it. There is the Farmer Producer Organisation that they are talking about.  A limit of Rs. 100 crore has been set up.  Why is this limitation?  It is just because it is a farmer, just because, he is gareeb. We will have Adanis and Ambanis having  billions of crores in dollars.  But if it is  a poor farmer getting together with his brethren and forming a company, there is a limitation of Rs. 100 crore. Why again this kindness?  Are they saying that the farmers should not dream big? What about Amul in their erstwhile State of  Gujarat?  Now, it is slipping out. But the State they said was a model State. What about that?  Potato, onion and tomato are not region specific.  They have no concept that such produce need preservation and cold storages. Are we even aware that one cold storage cannot even keep all these fruits and vegetables?  Potato needs one temperature for preservation; tomato needs another temperature for preservation; and onion needs another temperature for preservation. We have the Minister of Food Processing Industries sitting here.  Her budget has been cut down. … (Interruptions) THE MINISTER OF FOOD PROCESSING INDUSTRIES (SHRIMATI HARSIMRAT KAUR BADAL): No, its doubled. SHRI TATHAGATA SATPATHY : Okay. For example, we are talking about cyber physical systems.  Initially, I could not understand what exactly cyber physical system is. Then, I started thinking and I thought, maybe, they are talking about robotics.  Robotics is still evolving.  Countries like US are spending billions for it.  What do we give?  We give a meagre sum of Rs. 2,800 crore or Rs. 3,000 crore to develop robotics and the kind of research that is required.  This is nothing.  Why are we wasting that money?  How do we think that we can even preserve this perishable?  What will happen when investment is made? Farmers will start farming and there will be huge productions but there will be no lifting of the crops and there will be no storage facilities.  Who do we think, we are hoodwinking except our own people? There was some mention about "From Hawaii Chappal To Hawai-Jahaz".  Somebody boasted today that some 600 or 700 aircrafts are flying in the Indian skies.  Now, there will be 900 modern aircrafts flying.  Listen, when those 900 aircrafts come in, how many of our farmers will be flying those aircrafts?  How many of our villagers will be flying those aircrafts?  We have to talk sense.  Let us not be without sense.  Let us not talk just because somebody has told us and we have to talk out of sense.  What does this country need?  This country needs good bus stands.  Have we ever thought of modernising our bus stands? This country – I am ashamed to say – has never even thought about footpaths.  You go to Mumbai; you go around Delhi; you go around any part of this country; all the Metros; and all these smart cities that they are putting up does not have sidewalks or does not have modern bus stands that are required for a proper city. Are you giving airports to my people?  My people do not need airports.  They need bus stands.  They need sidewalks.  They need safe roads.  But there is no provision for that. On the one hand you say Rs. 6.47 lakh crore personal tax collection shot up to Rs. 8.27 lakh crore.  However, they also claimed that the turnover is not encouraging.  You claim big about ease of living.  There was also a mention in Hindi, which I wrote in English, which says: सरकारी दखल कम से कम हो। How is that going to be achieved?  It is pretty pink when you show a rosy side alone to your brain-damaged followers.  Would you bother to let the nation know how much you are going to spend to collect this tax? Now, I am coming to MSME.  Do you truly believe in your claim that mass formalisation of MSMEs due to DeMon and GST will make financing easier? It has not done so yet.  This means, most of the MSMEs operating on their own steam and without virtually any Governmental help are dead or terminally ill already.  Are you aware, you have killed them with your demonetisation?  It is because, today it was said that only 10 per cent of jobs are formal; 90 per cent are informal.  What have you done with your demonetisation and your GST?  You have killed that 90 per cent.  It is because, that 10 per cent, that employment opportunity is belonging to your friends. Are you again incentivising, so-called, medium enterprises earning up to Rs. 250 crore?  The bar has been raised from Rs. 50 crore.  How many MSMEs in Tamil Nadu have a turnover of Rs. 250 crore on which they are taxable?  There are very few.  So, what will happen?  All these big corporates, their family members, their directors, their friends will form ancillaries.  It will be the big industrialists, the super corporates which will break up into smaller ancillaries.  They will benefit from this.  It is not the true MSMEs, not the young men, not the start up, crawl, stand India.  So, these are the things that one has to think about. It would have been much better if they would have thought of means on how to make MSMEs avail loans easier.  The Budget 2018-19 says that disinvestment will fetch Rs. 80,000 crore.  Is it not like an incapable child, a demented child who does not know what to do with all the wealth that the parents have left for him or her and starts selling off the family property?  It is because, he or she does not know what to do with it; he or she cannot build on it.  So, it is very easy to criticise the Congress.  But, I have lived in this country for now 61 years and I will not blame any Government.  It is because, Congress has come; Congress has gone.  They have come; they will also go.  Nobody is permanent.  But, the country will last; the people will live. People will decide who is best for them.  But, here, this disinvestment is, one fuel company buying into another fuel company.  It is just a jugglery from the left pocket to the right pocket.  So, what is the great idea?  The great idea, what I understand, is to cover up all the wrongdoings that had been done some years ago before 2014 with some fuel companies in Gujarat.  That is the effort that is being tried out.  It is good to focus on the aged and the unhealthy.  But, it is more important to make the present generation healthy. What facilities are we giving to schools, to colleges? Suppose, that is considered as a State Subject, even from the Central Government, I would like to know, what facilities have they thought of in the smart cities like any open-air gyms, any parks, any recreation centres.  There is nothing.  If you read about the smart cities, there is no such thing. There is a lot of hullabaloo about health getting priority this time; 10 crore families involving 50 crore individuals are supposed to get Rs. 5 lakh annually for healthcare.  But, what has been done in the Budget?  The Finance Ministry gave Rs. 2000 crore extra to the Health Ministry.  But, is it not correct that the Government took Rs. 750 crore away from other schemes?  Poor Health Ministry had been given Rs. 51,550 crore during 2017-18 when the RSBY was introduced, and Rs. 2000 crore was given for the scheme.  The total should have gone up to Rs. 53,550 crore.  Instead, what has happened?  In reality, the Health Ministry was given Rs. 52,800 crore only. Shockingly, the allocation for the National Rural Health Mission for 2018-19 has been brought down to Rs. 24,279 crore compared to Rs. 25,450 crore during 2017-18 - the net Rs. 1,179 crore less than last year.  There is a wild theory doing the rounds. Sir, you might remember, during the UPA time, in the Budget, the then Finance Minister had declared a cess on iron-ore exports and we all exporting States were very happy because when the Union Government or the Federal Government levy cess, a part of it will obviously devolve to us.  We were very happy.  Then on the same evening, the then Finance Minister, you would know him very well, flew to Singapore for one night.  Hectic parleys took place.  The deal was done.  Next day, he came back.  And when the Finance Bill came, that cess was withdrawn. This is on record Sir, and you know that very well because you were there in that Lok Sabha.  A day or two before this Budget, when there was a murmur of an imposition of long term credit gains tax (LTCG), the FIIs withdrew and the market was jittery.  The Finance Ministry assuaged the market saying that nothing of the sort was planned.  Now, that it has been imposed – markets tank, so called corrections happen and some people knowing that a reversal of such a decision will come are making a serious killing.  So, now, we await whether a reversal will happen like the previous years or will it not happen.  If it does, then it is a designed move to take position in the market at a lower level and make a killing in the bargain. Again, here too, they are using the Government position to benefit a few friends. This reminds us of what the UPA did by levying cess on iron-ore.  Therefore, at the end, I would like to say that my State, my people of Odisha, my party BJD, we vehemently oppose this Budget. It is not pro-poor, it is not pro-people, this is a confused Budget, aimed at only encouraging the rich to become richer, that one per cent which holds 74 per cent of the wealth that exists in India will probably by the time this Budget takes place and the elections will come, will probably start owning 90 per cent wealth of this country. We are sad today because this country is ours, the country belongs to the people, the country does not belong to any political party and therefore, we are constrained because this Government is ours.  The Government does not belong to any political party. We are constrained, we are unhappy to say that we oppose this Budget. श्री निशिकान्त दुबे :इनके भाषण में दो चीजें हैं,एक ब्रेन डैमेज्ड फालोअर्स की बात कही है, इविल फार्मेशन की बात कही है, दोनों बातें अनपार्लियामेंटरी हैं । HON. DEPUTY SPEAKER: I will go through that. SHRI TATHAGATA SATPATHY : I will not withdraw that word. It is not unparliamentary. I have checked in the book. श्री निशिकान्त दुबे :यह अनपार्लियामेंटरी है, मेरे पास किताब है । *DR. P. K. BIJU ( ALATHUR ):  Thank you for the opportunity to place my views and concerns on the budget 2018-19 presented by honorable finance minister Shri Arun Jaitley. The Union Budget 2018-19 is neither a pro-farmer nor a pro-poor budget. Like any other past budgets of the Modi regime, it's a hardcore pro-corporate and pro-foreign capital budget, which is packaged in a "populist" way. At the outset, the pro-farmer claims of the Union Budget 2018-19 are, in simple word, a hoax.  The expenditure on agriculture and rural development, as percentage of GDP, is reduced from 1.15 percent to 1.08 percent. The farmers of our country left high and dry. The contribution of the agriculture sector to the Indian economy is now hovering around 16% only, according to the recently released Economic Survey report of Financial Year 2017-18. The sector's growth has fallen from 4.9 per cent in Financial Year 2016-17 to 2.1 per cent in 2017-18. The biggest farce of the Union Budget 2018-19 is that despite the rhetoric of calling itself a farmer focussed budget, the actual allocation to the agriculture sector is  merely 2.36 per cent of the budget, which is even lower than the 2.38 per cent allocated in the Union Budget of 2017-18. There has been a record production of more than 275 million tones food grains and over 300 million tons of fruits and vegetables. But the budget is silent on the plunging price of agricultural products Finance Minister mislead Parliament and the nation by falsely claiming to have declared MSP for the rabi crops as per the formula recommended by the Swaminathan report and was in the process of similarly enhancing the MSP for kharif crops. Regarding the proposed 1.5 times of the cost of cultivation as Minimum Support Price (MSP), the very calculation of the cost of cultivation was wrong. There is a lot of differences between the methodology that M. S. Swaminathan proposed in his report in 2005.  The Swaminathan Commission suggested the fixing of the MSP for crops " at least 50 per cent more than the weighted average cost of production", however, the BJP promised in its 2014 Poll Manifesto "to enhance the profitability in agriculture, by ensuring a minimum of 50 per cent profits over the cost of production:. Since the government calculation method is bound to show the low cost of cultivation, the 1.5 times of it doesn't help in the increase of actual MSP. Moreover, there is no increase in one of the major rural employment generation schemes, the MNREGA. Like last year, only rupees 55,000crore was allocated to this project, which employs a large number of rural population during the non-cultivation season of the year.  The finance minister also reduced the allocation for the Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana, which has a Revised Estimate of rupees 4,800 crore in Financial Year 2017-18, while only rupees 3,600 crore is now allocated for it in the Financial Year 2018-19. Even the Revised Estimate, in the future, is less likely to go above rupees 4,000 to rupees 4,200 Crore  by the end of the Financial Year 2018-19. While the Revised Estimate for the Market Intervention Scheme and Price Support Scheme was rupees 950 crore in the current financial year. It is reduced to mere Rs. 200 crore for the next financial year. Thousands of farmers, especially the small and marginal farmers, are thrown into the abyss of extreme destitution due to the predatory credit system prevailing in the countryside. Thousands of farmers commit suicide due to the falling prices and shrinking subsidies. In January -October 2017 period itself, Maharashtra reports 2,414 farmer suicides. The Neo-Liberal reforms have taken a toll on our agricultural sector. Cutting of subsidies, poor access to formal rural credit system, ineffective compensation policies and above all, corporatization of agriculture has broken our agrarian economy. The proposal for the education sector has widely welcomed by the corporate educational institutions that indicates the direction of the system. It has allocated Rs 85,000 crore (US$13.26 billion) for education, with Rs 50,000 crore for schools and the rest for higher education. This was an increase of just 8% over last year. the allocation for secondary education rose by a similar ratio, from Rs 3,900 crore in 2017-18 to Rs 4,200 crore for the 2018-19 fiscal year. Finance Minister has also proposed treating education holistically without segmentation from pre-nursery to Class 12. This could only be possible by extending the Right to Education (RTE) Act 2009 up to the higher secondary level. The Minister did not address it deliberately because it would require huge funding. Instead, he increased the 3% education tax to a 4% 'health and education' levy, which should bring an additional Rs 11,000 crore to government coffers. This shows the government is in no mood to prioritize education and paves the way for the total privatization of the education sector. Strangely, the levy collected in the past mostly unused.  It is reported that more than Rs 830 billion lay idle in government coffer last year. Obviously, the poor and weaker sections would be further deprived of educational facilities in the coming future. The mega health insurance scheme announced in Budget 2018 is largely geared towards the corporate healthcare industry's interests. The private hospitals that get empanelled would no doubt have a market advantage over the others. If, with corporate influence, reimbursement rates are now negotiated upwards and quality standards tipped in favor of corporate providers, the advantage that affordable private care providers have will be lost. This will help corporate consolidation of the market. The National Health Protection Scheme promises Rs 5 lakhs per year per family for secondary and tertiary care hospitalization and aims to cover 10 crore families. The scheme was, in fact, announced in the 2016 Budget - the only difference being that the sum assured was raised from Rs 30,000 to Rs 1.5 lakhs then and to Rs 5 lakhs now. The scheme has not been operationalised in the last two years. Moreover, not even 50% of the funds under the existing health cover scheme have been spent in the past year. If we compare it with last year's revised estimates, the increase in budgetary outlay for the health sector is trivial, and in real terms probably stagnant. On some key components, especially the National Health Mission (NHM), there is a decline in allocations. The budgetary estimate for 2017-2018 was Rs 48,878 crore, the revised estimate is Rs 53,198 crore and the budgetary allocation for the current year is Rs 54,667 crore. Thus, this year's allocation shows an increase of 11.8% over last year's allocation but only a 2.7% increase over the revised estimate. In terms of public health expenditure as proportion of gross domestic product, it has declined further. India is home to over 18 million unemployed people. In the election campaign four years ago BJP had promised 10 million jobs during its tenure. But only about 8,23,000 jobs had been created in the country till October last year and, according to the International Labour Organisation, most of it classified as vulnerable employment. The educated unemployment among India's youth may be as high as 20%. In a similar vein, according to the World Bank, 30.8% of India's population aged between 15 and 29 years are NEETs (Not in education, employment or training). Despite the much trumpeted Make in India political slogan, still for medical and electronics we depend on imports for 90 per cent of the country's needs.  Japanese steel and engineering companies are the major supply contractors for a 17 billion $ Indian bullet train project. Making matters worse, less than half the candidates trained by the National Skill Development Corporation-under the government's flagship scheme 'Skill India'-over the last two fiscals have reportedly landed jobs. The tughlaqian decisions of demonetization and GST has taken away around 2 crore employment opportunities every year that would have been a breather for the struggling unemployed youth in our country. This Budget is anti-SC/ST and Women. This means that there will be further reduction of social welfare expenditures. The government has earmarked Rs 95,754 crore (Rs 39,135 crore for STs and Rs 56,619 crore for SCs) in Budget 2018-19. 50% of the earmarked funds are either not relevant to the community or not accessible. Out of the allocated amount, only Rs 48,321 crore is for targeted schemes, the rest have no relevance nor are accessible to the community. The design of the schemes is a matter of grave concern as they are not designed to address the needs of the community. Eight of the important schemes for the SC/STs are severely underfunded. Budget 2018-19 is definitely not one for women. The gender budget has fallen from 0.68% to 0.65  per cent of GDP. The gender budget has shortchanged girls and women. In the budget speech last year and this year, the worlds 'women' and 'girl' were spoken as many as 13 times. The Gender Budget statement of the year however tells an entirely different tale with lesser focus on women in the next fiscal year. India has the world's highest population of stunted children-short for their age-and the country's failing primary healthcare and overburdened tertiary care are ill-equipped to handle the crisis of childhood malnutrition, leaving India unable to fulfill its national potential. Girls, rural areas, the poorest and scheduled tribes and castes are the worst affected. In 2017, Global ratings agency Moody revised the country's sovereign ranking to Baa2 from Baa3 citing implementation of a string of economic reforms, including demonetization and rollout of the goods and services tax. But it never became big news that the 2017 Global Hunger Index Report ranked India 97th out of 118 countries with a serious hunger situation. Even in such situations, allotment in ICDS scheme has been again reduced in this budget is highly condemnable. Rs 300 crore in this Budget has cut allocation for pregnant and lactating mothers. The allocation for ICDS this year is Rs. 16,334.88 crore whereas it was Rs. 15425.19 crore last year. This allocation is grossly inadequate to even cover the increased cost norms for the supplementary nutrition declared by the Ministry in September 2017. We had strong PSUs that helped us to withstand the perils of the latest global economic crisis. Dismantling the public sector became the part of the government agenda since 1991 with the official advent of neoliberal policies under the Congress government. The Modi government has intensified these policies.  Public sector today is the repository of huge national assets including land and minerals, vital infrastructure and huge productive forces. It is the wealth of nation. Last year the government secured rupees 1 lakh core by selling even the profit making PSUs. This year it aimed to collect rupees 8000 through selling of the remaining ones. The decision of the BJP led government to allow 100% Foreign Direct Investment in such strategic sectors of our economy like defence , railways, telecom, civil aviation, satellites, power, petroleum, mining, coal etc is nothing but anti national in character. Inflation is another challenge that the Government could not handle with. Consumer prices in India rose to a 15-month high in 2017 due to the ongoing seasonal surge in vegetable prices and an unfavorable base effect from last year, breaching the Reserve Bank of  India's medium term target for inflation. The fuel inflation rose to 7.90% in December 2017 against 6.36% in November 2017.The food inflation rose to 4.85% in December 2017 compared to 4.42% in November 2017. The benefit of price slash of international crude oil price has not been transferred to the consumers and the economy. Instead, the government is transferring the benefits to the corporates and augmenting the inflation. It is expected that, at this rate, in all likelihood, the inflation rate would cross double digits this year. Wholesale Price Index (WPI) is in its all-time high. While WPI in 2016 was 1.3%, it has been doubled in 2018 with 3.6%. The price of food articles has been increased from 3% in 2016 to 4.3% in 2017. The government is concerned about fiscal deficit. But, my question is who has created such situation?. The February 2017 budget had committed to targeting a fiscal deficit of 3.2% of GDP. The numbers now being announced indicate that the deficit will be at least 3.5% of GDP for the current fiscal year, and it could actually be higher. Diversion of funds in the name of banking recapitalisation is another tricky game of the NDA government in favor of the corporates. In reality all the banks are under debt crisis due to the Non Performing Assets. Some of the country's biggest banks are reporting losses. India's banking system was saddled with Rs 7.29 lakh crore of gross non-performing assets (NPAs)- about 5% of the country's GDP. These has caused due to the non-payment of loans given to the corporates. This year 5 lakh crore rupees have been earmarked for banking recapitalisation.  In 2016-17 budget it was rupees 2.13 lakh crore. This banking recapitalisation would be done by diverting funds from the social welfare sectors. While the government cutting funds from social welfare sector, funds are being served to the corporates on a platter. Trade deficit has also hiked from 11.1% in 2016 to 14.1% in 2017. Removal of wealth tax in the last year budget step to help the corporates. Now, the finance minister has shown again his loyalty to them by reducing the corporate tax from 30 to 25. He has also extended this benefit for companies with turnover of up to Rs 250 crore. Last year, it was available only to the companies with a turnover of 50 crore. The Government has also axing the democracy through subverting and bypassing the parliament. After the implementation of GST, the newly constituted GST council would decide the Tax related matters instead of the states and Parliament. The scrapping of the Planning Commission also a big blow to the federal principles followed by our country. It Planning Commission was dismantled without consulting the states. The  Niti Ayog is more a " think tank" than a finance-distributing agency. The 92 years old tradition of separate railway budget that deals with a whopping 148000 crore, has become a mere mention in the main budget. Last but not the least, the budget 2018-19 is an evident of glaring regional discrimination of the central government of some selected states with a vengeance. Kerala has been a historically neglected region for railway. Kerala is a world-renowned tourist destination. It is also well known for its beautiful religious destinations. The present budget has cut 23% of the fund allocation compared to last year. The insufficient funds earmarked for new lanes, gauge conversion, doubling of lanes and electrification Act as a major impediment of the railway development of the state. The long-standing demand of the state for more trains from important cities, a separate railway zone, track doubling and electrification , development of adarsh stations at Mulamkunnathukavu, Vallatholnagar and vadakkancherry, has not been met. The demand for Railway Over Bridges, at Kollengode-Oottara, Muthalamada under Paakkadu division, Enkekkadu, Pottore, akamala, Mulloorkara under Thiruvanathapuram division, Subway at Peruvambu are also neglected. Kerala has acquired 235 acres of land for the Kanjikkode factory. Even after laying the foundation stone before five years, nothing has been done on that land. The newly gauge converted Palakkadu-Pollachi route is not beneficial to the people due to lack of stops. It has stops at many local stations and was heavily used by the people prior to the conversion. Kerala is one of the states that have been at the receiving end of the central governments ruthless following  of the neo-liberal policies. According to the estimates of Kerala, there are over 13 lakh people associated with agriculture sector in the state,  and around 75 lakh people are associated with the plantation sector. The Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) free trade agreement with India and other 15 nations, the agriculture and plantation sectors in Kerala are staring at an uncertain future as they fear that once the pact is signed it will sound a death knell for these sectors. Kerala will be one of the state's worst-affected by the RCEP agreement due to the agro-climatic conditions as well as crop mix. There will be a direct impact on rubber and spices and an indirect impact on coconut. currently the fall in price of rubber from rupees 260 per kg to rupees 100 has created an unprecedented economic situation in Kerala. Declaration of Minimum Support Price for cash crops is the only way out to save the farmers from committing suicides. The demand for increase in import duty for rubber is a long pending demand of kerala.  Many other demands of kerala have been yet to be fulfilled such as increasing the amount of financial assistance to IAY programme. In the health care sector, there is a long pending demand to upgrade the Thrissur medical college in to a Cancer Centre. Establishing a medical college at Vadakkancherry would be beneficial to the people of three districts such as Thrissur, Palakkadu and Malappuram. I conclude by expressing my great disappointment on the Budget 2018-19. Apart from the rhetoric of pro-poor, pro-farmer, in reality, it has nothing to offer to them. Instead, the budget is clearly paving the way for the corporates and multinationals by snatching whatever is left out for the poor in our country. Finally, I would like to remind the government  that, a country is not a company. SHRI ADHALRAO SHIVAJIRAO PATIL ( SHIRUR ): It is very unfortunate that our friends from Andhra Pradesh, the true TDP friends, true NDA partners who have been good friends of BJP had to stand on their feet since morning for their rights. They have promised certain things to the people of Andhra Pradesh which the Government of India is not able to fulfil them.  We, the people from Shiv Sena and from Maharashtra are with them and we support them. Mr. Deputy Speaker, Sir, I would like to put forth mine and my Party’s views on the Budget presented for the financial year 2018-19. This year’s Budget was much anticipated in the current climate of gloom and doom as far as the state of economy is concerned. Already the economy was limping in terms of slowing private investment, falling industrial output and overall liquidity crisis caused by demonetization. The inherent issues in GST implementation are still being addressed and MSMEs are yet to come to terms with them. Amidst all this, the Budget was expected to address all these issues. Unfortunately, the Budget failed to address any of these concerns and should be seen as another lost opportunity. The middle-class was expecting a relief in the form of income tax revisions which did not materialize. Cess has been hiked to four per cent from the current three per cent across the board for the taxpayers. The exemption limit for income tax has remained at Rs.2.5 lakh since the last three years. The same should have been revised to Rs.3 lakh, if not more. It is a welcome step that corporate tax reduction of 25 per cent for companies with turnover up to Rs.250 crore is a very welcome step. However, LLP, partnership firms, proprietors, Association of Persons and Body of Individuals should not have been distinguished and discriminated. They also deserve tax reduction of 25 per cent with a turnover up to Rs.250 crore. The Government has opted for wider fiscal deficit at 3.5 per cent of GDP for the year 2018-19 and projected the 2018-19 year’s deficit at 3.3 per cent of GDP. Higher fiscal deficit is not good for the Government’s credibility and FDI among other things. If the Government means to implement all the social, rural and infrastructure expenditure plans with very small changes on the tax front, it will certainly have some concerns for the fiscal deficit target for the next year. We have seen inflation coming up in the last couple of months. Increase in the Minimum Support Price for some of the crops has the potential to increase the inflation rate going forward. The major sector where the Budget has fallen short is allocation of resources towards Indian Defence. Though there is a hike of 7.81 per cent over the last year’s allocation, the allotment under the capital head of Rs.99,947 crore is less than the allotment for the Defence pensions. With ever increasing hostilities from our neighbours and considering the urgent need for revamp of our defence equipment, a higher share towards capital head was expected. Also, this would have an adverse impact on the prospects of getting the Indian private sector to undertake more projects in this sector. Coming to one of the important points, which is really bothering our country, let me put to the notice of the hon. Finance Minister that the vital point of concern of everybody is that the United Nations released the 2017 Revision to its World Population Prospects a couple of weeks before and the data has some surprising insights about the way India’s population is set to grow in the next two decades. India will be number one in seven years in the world. Within the next seven years, India will overtake China to become the world’s most populous country. In just a year or two after that, once China’s population has hit around 144 crore of people, its population will start to decline for the first time ever. India, in the meantime, will continue to grow until 2061 or so and only start to decline when its population has gone well past 168 crore of people, when it will be the most populous country the world has ever seen. This is the beginning of the end of the demographic dividend. We are young but not for long. By 2040 or so, India’s demographic dividend will be conclusively over. So, if India wants to use its global competitive advantage in having a large working age population, it has around 20 years to do this. 18 00 hrs 

          As a nation of 130 crore population, we ought to have plan for what this number would be after five years, 10 years, 15 years, 20 years and 25 years. There is neither a single word nor any provision for the above projection of population for the next 20 years and thereafter. Then, I would like to come to Long Term Capital Gains (LTCG). Tax on Long Term Capital Gain on shares is not a step in the right direction as it will discourage investment in stock market and consequently the coming up of new industries. HON. DEPUTY SPEAKER: Now, it is 6 o’clock. I want to know the view of the hon. Minister of Parliamentary Affairs in terms of extension of time of the House. THE MINISTER OF CHEMICALS AND FERTILIZERS AND MINISTER OF PARLIAMENTARY AFFAIRS (SHRI ANANTHKUMAR): Sir, the Budget discussion is continuing. Twelve hours have been allotted for this discussion. Friday being a Private Members Business day, reply to the Budget discussion has to be given tomorrow. Therefore, I request you and the entire House, through you, that the time of the House for this discussion may be extended up to 9 o’clock…..(Interruptions) SHRI K.C. VENUGOPAL ( ALAPPUZHA ): Initially there was a request to extend the time for discussion up to 8 o’clock and we agreed to it. We have a whole day available tomorrow. We can continue this discussion tomorrow also. SHRI ANANTHKUMAR : If the discussion goes till tomorrow, the reply by the hon. Minister will be very delayed. Therefore, I request the Members to extend the time of the House till 9 o’clock…..(Interruptions) We also have to send it to Rajya Sabha. HON. DEPUTY SPEAKER: Okay, the time for Budget discussion is first extended up to 8.30 pm. If further required, we will extend it again. Adhalrao Patil ji, please continue your speech. SHRI ADHALRAO PATIL SHIVAJIRAO : Sir, if revenue mobilization was the motive, a small increase in Securities Transaction Tax (STT) would have garnered more revenue with better efficiency than poorly thought out tax on Long Term Capital Gains on shares. Sir, real estate industry is passing through a very critical time. Some stimulus measures should have been provided in the Budget to reactivate the industry. Import duty on gold was also expected to be reduced which is not done. I am afraid that this will increase smuggling of gold in the coming years. Then, I come to a very important point as far as industry is concerned. 18 per cent GST on service sector is extremely high as it is on luxurious goods. There are some industries like computer hardware industry and electronic hardware industry where important spare parts like LCD displays and computer displays attract 18 per cent of GST. It is definitely on higher side. This will surely have a bad impact on the growth of this industry. So, I would request the hon. Finance Minister to rethink on GST rates for LCD displays, LCD panels and LED TVs and reduce it from 18 per cent to 5 per cent or 12 per cent at the most. Sir, let me come back to some of the positive points included in the Budget. The outlay of Rs.1.49 lakh crore towards Railways is a positive step in improving the connectivity across the nation. I am hopeful that this allocation is fully and effectively utilized considering the long pending projects, which have received in-principle approval and are yet to take the ground. For example, in my constituency, Pune-Nasik railway project was announced and the State Government of Maharashtra has also agreed to share 50 per cent cost. Now, the project cost has gone up to Rs. 5,341 crore. This is a long-pending demand. I do not see any concrete movement towards this railway project. There is another railway project in my constituency – Kalyan to Nagar. The demand for this railway project has been there for last 25 to 30 years. I would request the hon. Finance Minister to reconsider it and make some provision to announce this project. Providing Minimum Support Price to the tune of 1.5 times the cost of produce to farmers is another welcome step, but considering the already stretched finances and the lacunae in implementation of loan waiver schemes as seen in Maharashtra raises serious doubts about how this would be implemented. Similarly, the formation of National Health Protection Scheme is a welcome policy decision that would provide cover to India’s vast number of rural and urban poor. This is very critical when healthcare costs are rising by the day, and private operators view this sector primarily from a profit-making perspective, but again, given the severe lacunae in our healthcare infrastructure, merely budget allocations would not suffice. I would urge upon the Government and the relevant Ministry to look into delivery of the services as promised. Increase in tax exemption limit for senior citizens for bank interest from Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 50,000 is a great relief. Also, the increase in Section 80D deduction for health insurance premium and medical expenditure from Rs. 30,000 to Rs. 50,000 will also help them to buy old-age health covers and cope up with the rising healthcare costs. Overall, the Budget was a missed opportunity in terms of delivering on the much talked about promise of achhe din  which India has been waiting for since 2014. Though there have been several small initiatives which were positive, it was found wanting on the major impactful sectors which could help revive the economy and stimulate job growth. I take this opportunity to thank the hon. Finance Minister and the Prime Minister for giving me this opportunity to express views on behalf of the people of India. Thank you. *SHRI P.R. SUNDARAM ( NAMAKKAL ): Budget is guided by duty to strengthen agriculture, rural development, health, education, employment, MSME and infrastructure sectors. The Union Government says that these structural reform will push India among the fastest economies of the world. So many announcements have been made by the Finance Minister in the last full Budget of this Government. Two New funds of Rs 10,000 crore has been announced for Fisheries and Animal Husbandry sector; and Rs 1290 Crore in Re-structured National Bamboo Mission. Rs 5.97 lakh crore allocations for infrastructure. Increase in Disinvestment from Rs 72,500 crore to Rs  1,00,000 crore. Loan from Self Help Group Women has increase about Rs 42,500 crore in 2016-17 to Rs 75,000 crore by March 2019. It is a welcome step  that the Finance Minister has announced that 70 lakh jobs will be created this year. Textile Sector has been allotted Rs 7148 crore, against  6,000 Crore in 2016. No any major change in Income tax. Customs duty on various products like mobile phones has been increased to 20 percent and prices of televisions will be increased  to 15 per cent. In Railways, more that  25,000 Railway Stations, escalators will be built and all trains to have Wi-Fi, CCTV etc. 24 new Government Medical Colleges will be set up by upgrading existing district hospitals in the country. At least one medical college for three Parliamentary Constituencies. Senior Citizens are also benefitted by this budget. Interest exemption on deposits with banks and post offices are increased from Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 50,000. No TDS required is required for section 194A. Benefit is also available for interest from all fixed deposit schemes and recurring deposit schemes. Hike in deduction limit for health insurance premium and/ or medical expenditure from  Rs. 30,000 to Rs. 50,000 under section 80D. All senior citizens will now be able to claim benefit of a deduction of Rs. 50,000 for medical insurance premium. Chief Minister Edappadi k. Palaniswami has praised the Union Budget saying it is fairly balanced, growth oriented that focuses on development of agriculture, rural development and health sector. He welcomed as it will give a big push to the agricultural sector. While welcoming the proposed liberalisation of exports of agricultural commodities, he expressed the hope that Tamil Nadu will benefit from the Mega Food Parks Scheme. However, the budget has left out Chennai which is expanding faster and needs strengthning of its suburban train system. HON. DEPUTY SPEAKER: Shri Jayadev Galla. 18 08 hrs 

  

(At this stage, Dr. Ravindra Babu and some other hon. Members went back to their seats.) 

  

HON. DEPUTY SPEAKER: Hon. Members, when a Member of your Party is speaking, it may not look nice to put up placards.  If you are agitating, you may come and do it. I do not have any objection to that. If you come here and stand, which you have already been doing, it is okay, but when an hon. Member of your Party is speaking, if you stand there putting up placards does not look nice. That is not correct. Please do not do that. You may come here and do whatever demonstration you want to do. I have no objection to that. You have every right to do that in democracy.  If you stand there and put up placards while a Member of your Party is speaking, it does not look nice. We would be creating a bad precedent. So, please do not do that. If you are sitting, that is different. Please do not show the placards. If you want to do it here, I have no objection, but please do not do it there. SHRI JAYADEV GALLA ( GUNTUR ): Sir, the five crore people of Andhra Pradesh demand an explanation from the Finance Minister and the Prime Minister. After they promised a special status to the State of Andhra Pradesh during the elections, we were told by them that because of technical difficulties due to the introduction of GST, that was no longer possible and in lieu of this, they offered us a special package which, you promised, would be equal in value to all the benefits we would have otherwise received had we got a special status. We believed you, Mr. Finance Minister, but he is not here to address him directly, and the Prime Minister. We are allies. We fought the 2014 elections together. We won based on promises made to the people of Andhra Pradesh. Why should not we trust you? We have trusted you and we have maintained ‘Alliance Dharma’ for the last four years, and now five Budgets later still waiting. You have repeatedly given us assurances and asked us to have patience, but there is no more time for patience. This Budget is the final chance to fulfill your promises and assurances. It  is now or never. We understand that you have the numbers in the Lok Sabha to render us irrelevant. But let me remind you that elections are fast approaching. Based on current trends, the next General Elections will certainly be challenging. If the promises and assurances you made to your ally are not fulfilled, what message does that send to your other allies or potential allies? You must consider this point. I may be new to politics, but I do understand about trust, which is an essential requirement for any partnership to continue. I also think that I can safely say that India has not seen her last days of coalition Governments. What message do you want to send to your allies and potential allies, Mr.Prime Minister? Your allies are feeling neglected, betrayed and humiliated as are the five crore people of Andhra Pradesh. We demand an explanation. In the Budget, there is no mention of Amaravati, Polavaram, Railway Zone, Deficit Budget,Special Package and not to mention the other commitments made in the A P ReorganizationAct and the assurances made on the floor of the Rajya Sabha by the then Prime Minister, Dr.Manmohan Singh ji, without which this Bill would not have been passed. Therefore, it should be considered sacrosanct. Some of your Party leaders are trying to convince you that somehow your Party can grow in Andhra Pradesh by breaking promises and weakening the Telugu Desam Party. Seasoned advisors of the Congress President convinced her as well in 2014 of an ill-advised strategy and paid a very dear price for it. From being the strongest State-unit in the country for the Congress, It went to zero out of 25 MPs and zero out of 175 MLAs where  it is likely to stay for a very long time. The Congress thought that by betraying the people of Andhra Pradesh it would ensure a win in Telangana, and the TRS would merge with it. The Congress had also expected that because of a secret deal between them and the YSRC, they would win in A P and would also support them,if not merge. The people of A P are no fools, and the Congress was wiped out in both the States and the YSRC's devious plans   were understood by the people. Please do not be of the opinion that the BJP will fare any better if it treads the wrong path. The YSRC is now again trying to fool the people of A P. They are praising the Budget; cozying up to the Central Government; and shifting the blame from the Central Government and the BJP to the A P Government and the TDP. The people of A P are no fools. They know that the YSRC needs to support whoever is in power in the Centre in order to keep their … *. Today, it  may be you, tomorrow it may not. … (interruptions) 

SHRI VARAPRASAD RAO VELAGAPALLI ( TIRUPATI ): Sir, it is a personal aspersion. … (interruptions) It is against a person who is not in the House. … (interruptions) 

SHRI JAYADEV GALLA : And what is the message you will send to the country by supporting the Party whose Founder and President is … * … (interruption) If you think that the YSRC would make a better alliance partner in A P, then it would be a serious lapse of judgment and morality. … (interruption) 

SHRI VARAPRASAD RAO VELAGAPALLI : The individual is not present in the House. … (interruption) He is not supposed to take his name. … (interruption) 

SHRI JAYADEV GALLA : I did not name anybody. … (interruption) 

SHRI VARAPRASAD RAO VELAGAPALLI : I think that the Chair should object to it. … (interruption) 

SHRI JAYADEV GALLA : Sir, there is a saying that : “You can fool some of the people, all of the time; you can fool all of the people some of the time; but you cannot fool all of the people all of the time. And let me assure you, Mr.Prime Minister, t h a t  the TDP and the people of Andhra Pradesh are certainly no fools. We demand an explanation. Our Chief Minister has visited Delhi 29 times. He has met the Prime Minister, Finance Minister and Home Minister multiple times and every concerned Minister to get the promises and assurances fulfilled. He has submitted Report after Report with the latest Report being here. You can see how detailed this Report is. This is not the first report. So many reports have been given to every department. It is shameful for the Government to still say that they are waiting for the information or they are still examining the situation. Sir, there are nineteen items just in the A. P. Reorganisation Act alone that are yet to be fulfilled. I am not going to cover all of them. I am going to focus on five main items because of the paucity of time. But there are nineteen items just in the A. P. Reorganisation Act alone. I would not go into the details but let me read them out. These include Special Category State, Bridging the Resource Gap, the Polavaram Project, Formation of a Railway Zone, Financial Assistance to Amravati, Establishment of Greenfield Crude Refinery and Petrochemical Complex, Institutes of National Importance, Formation of Dugarajapatnam Port at Nellore, Increase in the seats of A. P. State Assembly, Anomalies in Tax Matters, Steel Plant in Kadapa District, Establishment of Vizag-Chennai Industrial Corridor, the Vishakhapatnam and Vijayawada Metro, Rapid Road and Rail Connectivity to Amravati, Development Assistance to Backward Districts, Payment of Power dues by Discom, Appointment of Schedule-IX Institutions, Appointment of Schedule-X Institutions and the Formation of the Greyhounds Training Centre. They are there in the A. P. Reorganisation Act alone, not to mention other assurances made to us…(interruptions) 

          Sir, where is the budget for fulfilling your promises and assurances? Where is it in the Budget? How do you plan to do it? Regarding the Special Package, I wish to remind the hon. Finance Minister what he had said on 7th September, 2016 while announcing the Special Financial Package to the State of Andhra Pradesh. Sir, he said that the Government of India will support Andhra Pradesh to the hilt. That was in September 2016. Nothing has been done since then. The Government cannot take our patience for granted. Not allocating and not even mentioning about the Special Financial Package to Andhra Pradesh in this Budget is injustice and it amounts to deceiving the people of Andhra Pradesh. Secondly, when the hon. Finance Minister came to Amravati to lay the foundation stone for Administrative City, the Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh requested for exemption of Capital Gains Tax till the first sale of the developed land in the capital region. The hon.  Finance Minister assured that he would consider this request sympathetically but the exemption has been given only for two years. So, I request that it should be given until the first sale of land. We made this request over and over again but we want a confirmation. Thirdly, the House is aware that Andhra Pradesh has been given financial package due to immense loss it has suffered after bifurcation. The House is also very well aware that the financial packages with different nomenclatures were announced to various States and regions earlier and we also know the fate of those announcements. So, looking at the past experience, the people of Andhra Pradesh are very apprehensive that this financial package may also meet the same fate. Hence, there have been numerous demands from various quarters and also from our Chief Minister for giving legislative backing to the entire Special Financial Package announced on 7thSeptember, 2016 and also to implement the package in a fixed timeframe. In view of the above, I demand the hon. Finance Minister through this House to immediately release the financial package announced and also give legislative backing to the Special Financial Package to legitimise the announcements made by the hon. Finance Minister. I am sure, he would reply to this when he replies to the debate. Regarding assurances given during bifurcation, the Government of India promised to give equal amount that the Special Category Status would get as a Special Package. I do not want to go into the Special Category Status issue right now. Secondly, the then Prime Minister also assured on the floor of the Rajya Sabha that a Special Development Package would be given for seven backward districts of Rayalaseema and North Coastal Andhra and it will be on the lines of Koraput-Bolangir-Kalahandi Special Plan in Odisha and the Bundelkhand Special Package in Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. But, so far, the Government of India has given just Rs. 1,050 crore (at Rs. 50 crore per district every year for three years). While the package given to KBK and Bundelkhand is Rs. 6,000 crore, only Rs. 1,050 crore is given to Andhra Pradesh and even this Rs. 50 crore is stopped this year. We want that package, and not any pittance, to backward districts. Sir, regarding Polavaram, the Government of Andhra Pradesh has submitted a revised proposal of Rs. 54,000 crore as per 2014-15 estimates. Out of this, nearly Rs. 30,000 crore is meant for compensation to be paid for land acquisition and R&R. So, I only request the hon. Finance Minister and the hon. Prime Minister to approve the revised estimates of Polavaram at the earliest. Coming to the Railway zone and also the Vizag and Vijayawada Metro, the hon. Finance Minister has announced allocation of Rs.17,000 crore for Bengaluru Metro and approved Rs.51,000 crore for the Mumbai Suburban railway network, but there is no mention about the metro in Visakhapatnam or in Vijayawada. It is obvious that the Finance Minister’s announcement for Bengaluru is because there are Assembly elections in Karnataka and not in Andhra Pradesh. How is it justified? Does it not mean that you are deviating from your own path of talking only of vikas and there would not be any politics on developmental issues? Yesterday, the hon. Railway Minister made a statement in the other House the Rajya Sabha on the Railway zone. He said: I take this opportunity today to express our concerns and our demands from the General Budget on behalf of Telangana Rashtra Samiti. Telangana became a reality on 2nd June 2014, a fulfilment of the long-cherished aspirations of the people. It is now three and a half years. Today, I feel proud and happy that the State is moving ahead, living up to the expectations of the people, fulfilling their desires and becoming a role model for other States in the country. Our Chief Minister Shri K. Chandrashekhar Rao had a forward vision that smaller States could really develop the country. He has fought for it, achieved it and we are now going forward in building our own State with his full vision. The Budget of Rs. 24,42,000 crore which was presented by our hon. Finance Minister Shri Arun Jaitley is totally confusing. After the Budget was announced, many economists sat together, many people came together and had a lot of discussion as to what has been given to whom. Did the poor get something? Did the farmers get something? Did the businessmen get something? Who got what? In this analysis we are still not able to find out anything. But when we see our State Budget, it is always presented like a banana. Even a small child can jus open the fruit and eat it. Whenever the Budget is presented in the State of Telangana, it is very clear. Farmers get their share, the SCs and STs get their share through their sub-plans, infrastructure is built properly, irrigation is looked after, pensions are given to the poor people, and everybody gets their livelihood from the Budget, but when we come across this Union Budget we see that no person is really satisfied. I would like to commence by speaking on the allocation made for agriculture against the promises made to this sector. The biggest announcement in this sector is the extension of MSP to the kharif crop to at least one-and-a-half times the production cost. However, I could see no particular allocation for this and there are no details laid out in the Budget. The issue with the entire Budget in general is that the Government has made big promises and laid down targets to be achieved in the next three to four years but there are no details laid down. Coming back to the MSP, the Government needs to give out the details as to the method of calculation of the cost: Will it be A2, A2+FL, or C2? What will be the allocation that would be set aside for the fulfilment of this promise? The next issue is the allocation for the Department of Agriculture, Co-operation, and Farmers’ Welfare. The Revised Estimate last year for this Department stood at Rs. 46,105 crore but the Budget Estimate this year stands at only Rs. 46,700 crore. This is hardly an increase in the allocation. How is the Government planning to carry out the MSP promise with this allocation? Is the Government planning to put the financial burden to carry out this on the States? In Telangana, we have initiated a unique programme in agriculture. We have a scheme of input grant under which we give unconditional grant of Rs. 8,000 crore per acre to farmers. We have also started giving free round-the-clock electricity to farmers. These are initiatives involving huge costs. Keeping all this in mind, an additional financial burden should not be put on Telangana to carry out the promises made by the Centre. The input grant scheme will increase the production and most agricultural produce will be doubled. So, I request the Government to work out a proper mechanism for the MSP that is to be given to the farmers. किसान तो किसान है,अगर किसान को नहीं देंगे तो किसको देंगे? Today, the production has gone up. कल से जो चल रहा है,उसमें राधामोहन सिंह जी के पास हम लोगों की मीटिंग चल रही है। Our red gram production was only 30,000 to 40,000 metric tons but now it has gone up to two lakh metric tons last year. Last year, given an MSP, they were able to buy 1.5 lakh metric tons of red gram but today they are saying that they can buy only 74,000 metric tons of red gram. How can it be a farmer-friendly Budget? How will you double the income of farmers? We really do not understand that. Half of the production this year is at the rate at which you were buying last year. This year, you are not buying. There is a chaos in Vikarabad district and Mahboobnagar district. My farmers are on the road in Medak asking for MSP to be given to red gram. You are saying you are going to double the income of the farmers. We would like to know how. Now, I would like to come to the health care which the Government claims is the highlight of this Budget. Once again, just like Agriculture, no detail of this proposed National Health Protection Scheme was given in the Budget. There are no details as to what is the budgetary allocation to this scheme, what is the Centre-State sharing pattern and what is the premium for this coverage. The Government just said that they will launch the scheme and the Health Minister said that the modalities will be worked out. I came across many newspaper reports which said that the allocation made is just Rs. 200 crore which, if accurate, is really low. Secondly, under the existing health coverage scheme, Rashtriya Swasthya Bima Yojana, out of 5.9 crore BPL families, only 3.6 crore families were enrolled in this scheme and while Rs. 1000 crore was allocated in the BE, only Rs. 451 crore was utilised. So, the Government should give out the details as to how the Government proposes to increase coverage under this scheme and prevent under-utilisation of funds as it happened during the last scheme. I also would like to say here that when the Government has 
 revised the three per cent Education Cess to four per cent, the financial burden of the Health Protection Scheme should be taken care of by the Centre only and the burden should not be imposed on the States or even on the people. I also request the Government not to keep a premium on the health coverage plan since a cess is already being levied for Health. My second issue with the Healthcare Budget is the allocation to the health sector. The total allocation to health is Rs. 54,600 crore, which is just a marginal rise from Rs. 53,294 crore allocated last year. The allocation to National Health Policy last year was 0.32 per cent of the GDP and it was widely recommended and as prescribed by the NHP document itself that it should be taken up to one per cent. However, this year, the allocation has reduced to 0.29 per cent of the GDP. The allocation to Health at around one per cent of the GDP is amongst the lowest in the world. It forces people to shell out in large, thus forcing seven per cent of the population into poverty every year. Furthermore, there is a huge gap between the allocation to urban healthcare and rural healthcare. The allocation to Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana which looks after institutes like AIIMS and upgrading of Government colleges has gone up by Rs. 650 crore which is a hike of 18 per cent. On the other hand, allocation to upgradation of district hospitals has been reduced by 14.5 per cent. The requirements of the primary healthcare are being ignored. For the National Health Mission, the budgetary allocation has reduced by two per cent. The RE for last year was Rs. 31,292 crore and this year's BE stands at Rs. 30,634 crore. The share of National Rural Health Mission in entire health Budget has fallen from 52 per cent in 2015-16 to 44 per cent in this Budget. The funds this year fell down by Rs. 1200 crore as compared to last year's BE. In this year's Budget, the particular allocation to child and reproductive health has also gone down. This is exactly opposite to what we in Telangana are providing for the Child and Women. In Telangana, we have KCR Kit Scheme in which we provide Rs. 12,000 to pregnant women and if the new born is a girl, an additional sum of Rs.l,000 is provided. The Kit Scheme also contains a kit of 15 branded items which is given to them and it contains items useful for both the mother as well as the child. It is sad to see that the Centre has reduced the budgetary allocation to Child and Reproductive Health Programme.   Sir, this KCR kit which has become very popular in Telangana, around 1.5 lakh women have come to the Government hospitals for delivery.  All the private maternity hospitals are on the verge of shut down.  Today, our Prime Minister has also said that Telangana is doing very well.  We really appreciate it, but what I would like to say is that we want some more support to be given to the State of Telangana so that we can come up further. राज्य स्वस्थ रहेगा,तो कंट्री स्वस्थ रहेगा । हमको अस्वस्थ नहीं करिएगा । HON. DEPUTY SPEAKER: Please conclude now.  All are well in Telangana.  You should not worry. SHRI A.P. JITHENDER REDDY :  I would take this opportunity yet again to draw the attention of the House attention towards what the hon. Finance Minister had promised to Telangana State on the floor of the House. A promise to establish an AIIMS was made to Telangana in February last year. However, there has been no Central allocation made in this regard yet again in this Budget. When the Union Minister of State for Health visited Hyderabad recently, our Chief Secretary raised the issue of setting up AIIMS. Still there has been no assurance by the Minister and no word from the Centre.   Sir, a very prominent person like Shri Arun Jaitley Ji promises on the floor of the House saying that the Government will allocate money and give us AIIMS but even after one complete year, if a single paisa is not allotted for that, what would be his reputation?  How can we really trust the Finance Minister?  So the amount has to be released immediately. Now, I come to the budgetary allocations to education sector. The Budget Speech focused on strengthening the quality of education  through increased focus on digitalisation and improving the digital technology and infrastructure. However, as per a report in 2015 only 57 per cent of the elementary schools in the country have an access to electricity and only 26  per cent of the elementary schools are equipped with computers. And the problem here is that, despite the push for digitalisation, the allocation for e-Iearning has gone down from Rs. 518 crores to Rs. 456 crores. In our country, the quality of teachers is a serious issue which is affecting the quality of education that our children receive. Despite this, the budget for the Madan Mohan Malviya National Mission for Teachers and Training has remained stagnant at Rs. 120 crore, the same was allocated last year.  Out of the allocated Rs. 120 crore last year, only Rs. 100 crore was utilised. The allocation to IITs has reduced from Rs. 8,244 crores to Rs. 6,326 crore. The allocation to IIMs has reduced from Rs. 1068 crore to Rs. 1036 crore. Considering the fall in world rankings for Indian educational institutions in the recent past, the allocations to such institutions of national importance has to be taken seriously. Telangana has been incurring huge expenses to ensure that the educational standards of the State remain high. We have a KG to PG education scheme. We have launched Residential Schools for SCs / STs  and other minorities. Since the formation of our State, we have opened 504 residential schools, of which 104 schools are for the weaker sections. We also have opened 30 degree colleges for girl students belonging to the Scheduled Caste community and 22 degree colleges for girl students belonging to the Scheduled Tribes community. The State incurs an expenditure of Rs. 1.25 lakh per annum on each student while providing them free boarding, clothes and other essentials. We expect the Centre to allocate such appropriate funds for our higher institutions of learning. This year in the Economic Survey we have one chapter completely dedicated to the pendency of cases in the Judiciary. It is not only a grave issue concerning our citizenship but also as a State it drives away possible investors from foreign countries. One of the biggest reasons as to why there is pendency in courts is infrastructural problems that our Judiciary faces. Improvement of infrastructure of our courts is long due now. Yet, in this Budget, the allocation for improvement of infrastructure of the Judiciary has gone up by mere Rs. 1 crore, from Rs. 629 crore in the previous year to Rs. 630 crore this year. Upgradation of courts should also be taken up as an issue of utmost importance and the budgetary allocation should be made accordingly. Sir, now I turn my attention to the schemes for which the allocations have gone down. The first scheme that I would like to refer to in this regard is the MNREGA which is a very important scheme. The Revised Budgetary allocation for the scheme last year was Rs. 55,000 crore and the Budget Estimate for this year is the same as that of the last year. We are all aware of the difficulties that most of the States are facing, including my own State, over unpaid wages under this scheme. Almost 18 States in the country have the problem of unpaid and delayed wages. यह गरीबों का पैसा है they have already done the work and put in their efforts and hours and now waiting for their money to be transferred to their accounts. But even people working under this Scheme have to wait for their money to be sent from the Centre. Considering that it is an important issue, it is better to keep the allocation same as that of the previous year. Now, I come to the allocation made under the `Swachh Bharat’ Mission. The allocation under this head has gone down by 9 per cent. The RE for last year was Rs. 16,948 crore and BE this year is only Rs. 15,343 crore. The hon. President spoke of how construction of toilets is a salient contribution towards social justice. While they have been largely successful in constructing these toilets, many international organisations have pointed out the loopholes in this construction. The other point is that this year’s Budget increases the exemption of interest income on bank deposits from Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 50,000 for the senior citizens. This is a welcome step. But I would like to bring to the notice of the House the fact that the issue of income tax that is levied on the pensions earned by senior citizens. For the senior citizens, the pensions that these people earn is the only source of income for them. वे लोग अपने दवा-दारू के लिए थोड़ा-बहुत पैसा डिपोजिट करके रखते हैं।  In the flow it comes out like that. This pension is used by them for their increased medical expenses and their other livelihood expenses. I get many letters and messages from senior citizens asking me to take up this matter with the Government. After decades of service to the Government that these people superannuate from their jobs and get their pensions and pension is something that the Government gives to them in lieu of their services. I would like to suggest to the Government not to impose income tax on pensions. एक चीज के लिए विनती करता हूं, सरकार ने एम्स के लिए प्रोमिस किया है। An eminent figure of the country, the hon. Finance Minister had promised on the floor of the House that he will allocate money for the establishment of AIIMS in our State and so I would like to request him to kindly keep up to his words so that money is allotted. The hon. Finance Minister may kindly announce the amount of money being allocated for the purpose. Sir, I have not been allowed to complete my speech. There were so many other points to be made. I thought my colleague Shrimati Kavita Kalvakuntla would also be allowed to speak on this. Will you give her an opportunity tomorrow? With this assurance can I take my seat?  Thank you. SHRI TATHAGATA SATPATHY :  Sir, Shri Jithender Reddy spoke about income tax on elderly citizens.  A similar thing is happening in my State of Odisha. When land is being acquired for coalmines and other things, people who are land owners become land losers and they are left with nothing. Tax is being levied by the MCL and other Government companies.  That should also stop. SHRI P. KARUNAKARAN ( KASARGOD ):  Sir, I would like to participate in the discussion on the General Budget presented by our hon. Finance Minister, Shri Arun Jaitley. This is the last full Budget of this Government and also of the 16th Lok Sabha.  Since the Lok Sabha election is nearing and some of the States would also be going to the elections, we could see that this Budget has become an election-oriented Budget. In 2014, the Government or the BJP has given a large number of promises. At the very outset, I would like to say that there are some unfortunate instances in the House today.   We have heard just now the words of Shri Jayadev from Andhra Pradesh.  He has explained their experiences of the last four years as to how many times they have tried to meet the Finance Minister and the Prime Minister.   They have said that this is the last chance of this Government to satisfy them.   So, I would like to say, whether they are in the Treasury Benches or in the Opposition, this issue has to be taken up by the Government very seriously because they are the ally of this Government. They are not satisfied with your performance or you are not in a position to satisfy them and that is why, they were here.  Then how can you satisfy other Parties and other people when your ally itself is against this Budget?  They have made it clear.  So, this instance should not be repeated as it is the fault of the Government for the last four years. When we go into the details of the Budget and when we analyse the Budget, we could realise the actual situation prevailing in the country. The Government claims that there is better growth rate, and inflation and deficit are under control.  There was 9.1 per cent growth rate during the UPA Government.  It has come down to 5.3 per cent last year.   Now it is 6.3 per cent or so and the Government is expecting 7 per cent or 7.5 per cent next year but the former Chairman of the National Statistical Commission said that 6.5 per cent growth may be an over estimation based on the growth rate in the entire tax regime in the Budget.   The buoyancy in the indirect taxes including GST is unlikely to be as high as assumed in the Budget.  It is also an assumption that the Government thinks that there may be better growth rate and it may be an over estimation. The Economic Survey also made it clear that this growth rate is based on the market conditions of foreign countries with regard to exports.  If there is a better demand, the exports from the nation may increase.  This is also a prediction which we cannot rely on.  Again, the Economic Survey says that the non-tax revenue is not at a satisfactory level.  Keeping all these issues in mind, we cannot say that we will reach 6.5 per cent. The Government promised that there would be better growth and sufficient funds allocated.  One major claim of the Government is to give 50 per cent MSP to the farmers.  In their election manifesto itself, BJP has promised to give 150 per cent.  Then Swaminathan Commission has already recommended to give 50 per cent but except for Rabi crops, the Government has not implemented those recommendations. The Government has implemented this 50 per cent as far as the rabi crop is concerned. But it has not been implemented for other crops. So, it is not a fair thing done by our hon. Finance Minister. It has never been implemented across the country. Similarly, there is no proper extended crop loan facility in this Budget allocation. As a result, we could see extensive protests in many States, including Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Maharashtra and mainly in the BJP-ruled States. Every Government says that kisan or farmer is the backbone of this country. But that backbone has now been broken. The Government now says that income of the farmers would be doubled by 2022. How can you talk about 2022? How can one say that you will be in power in 2022? That decision should be taken by the Government which will be there in office at that time. What the farmers really need is immediate relief. You are not in a position to write off the loans. They need writing off of loans. You are not doing that. About 2022, we will see later as to who will come and who will take that decision. At present, the farmers need immediate relief in the form of writing off of loans. The Government is not ready for that. The other very ambitious scheme in this Budget is the health insurance to 10 crore families, at the cost of Rs. 5 lakh. The Finance Minister says that it will cover 50 crore family members. Many Members who spoke before me have already spoken about the fund allocation. It is only Rs. 200 crore. Rs. 200 crore for 50 crore of people! How much will they end up getting? In Kerala, the population is only three crores. But the allocation for health insurance scheme was Rs. 2,000 crore. Similar thing has been done by the West Bengal Government also. You claim to cover 50 crores of people. You can as well say it is 100 crores or 125 crores. After all, there is no proper allocation here. There are some insurance schemes which are already in existence. There is no detailed response from the Government on how they are performing. India is a young country and it has a good number of youth population, which is about 60 per cent. Unemployment is the burning issue now. What measures has the Government taken to tackle that? You promised that you will give two crore jobs to the youth every year. So, by now you must have created eight crores of jobs. But the Government does not even have the estimate in this regard. The Government has failed to provide employment to the youth. At the time of elections, you wanted to attract the youth and you promised them employment. Leave alone creating new employment. People are retrenched from the existing jobs as a result of disinvestment. So, people who already have employment are not able to retain their job. As I said, there is no new employment opportunities also. The Economic Survey has stated that unemployment in rural areas is declining. Of course, it is true. It is because of the implementation of the MNREGA Scheme. It was one of the main contributions of the UPA Government, to which the Left parties had given their full support.  As stated by other Members, I would also like to mention that last year the allocation for this was Rs. 55,000 crore. The same amount has been retained in the present Budget. There is no increase at all. The Government claims that they have taken many steps for the welfare of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes of our country. Their population in terms of percentage is 25. But the allocation is only 1.6 per cent for their welfare. How can you say that you have given better allocation for the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes? 19 00 hrs 

The Finance Minister in his Speech talked more about the welfare of women. But we have not seen a single word, either in the President’s Address or in the Budget Speech with regard to the Woman Reservation Bill.  What is your opinion on this issue? Why is the Government hesitating?  We said that the Congress Party or the CPM Party or the opposition party are fully supporting you to bring in Bill. But the Government is not ready to bring in Bill.  You can see that in Rajya Sabha it was passed.  It was not possible for the UPA Government to pass the Bill, because they had not got the majority. But you have got absolute majority. Why is the Government not bringing the Bill? You talked about the Nirbhaya Scheme. Earlier it was said that the Nirbhaya centres would be opened in various States, but we have not seen it anywhere.  When you say that you are doing much for the welfare of women, it has become really a lip service and nothing more than that. You are really misleading the women of this country. In Lok Sabha, we have 11.3 per cent of woman representation.  In Rajya Sabha, it is only 11 per cent.  But in many countries including Pakistan, Bangladesh and many other countries, it is much higher.  In countries like Portugal and Spain, it is more than 50 per cent. In Africa also, it is higher, more than 60 per cent.  But now, you are not in a position to give justice to women, otherwise you should bring the Bill in this House itself. The main source of revenue is indirect tax. In many of the countries, the percentage of indirect tax is less, compared to the direct tax. But in our country, every year the percentage of indirect tax is increasing.  It means that more and more burden is on the common people, whereas the percentage of direct tax is declining, giving more benefits to the higher income groups.  It is said that 73 per cent of the additional wealth generated in 2017 is possessed by one per cent of the people. How can you say that the income distribution is justifiable? So, the claim of the hon. Finance Minister that there is higher allocation to various sectors is contradictory to the facts.  The Government expenditure to GDP has now reduced further from 13.2 per cent to 13 per cent.  The expenditure on agriculture and rural development, as a percentage of GDP, is reduced from 1.15 per cent to 1.08 per cent; the total health expenditure has fallen from 0.32 per cent of the GDP to 0.29 per cent; Central expenditure on education has fallen from 0.49 per cent of the GDP to 0.45 per cent; gender budget has fallen from 0.68 per cent to 0.65 per cent of GDP; allocations for welfare of STs is below 1.6 per cent of the total Budget, and for SCs, it is 2.32 per cent. This is totally inadequate seeing the proportion to the share of population. The allocation for MNREGA has remained unchanged. Sir, the Finance Minister has completely failed to address the burning question of price rise.  The basic reason for the uncontrolled price rise is the price of petroleum products.  In the international market, the price of crude oil has come down to the extent of 28 dollars.  It has gone to 68 or 70 dollars per barrel. But why are you not in a position to transfer this benefit to the common people?  You have raised Excise Duty 16 or 17 times because the benefit goes to the oil companies, but the burden goes to the common man.  Then you say the Budget is better.  How is it possible to say that? The Government has declared that they are going to disinvest 24 major Public Sector Undertakings including Civil Aviation.  Government expects 80,000 crore as revenue.  Every year the fiscal deficit is being reduced, just because you are selling more and more shares of Public Sector Undertakings.  You see that Public Sector Undertakings are the wealth of the nation, wealth of the people. You are giving it to private companies and as a result of this, a large number of people are out of jobs. It is not  just selling of the shares  of the public sector undertakings alone but it is really a socio-economic issue as our social structure itself is going to be changed.  That is the main issue, that is the point that this  Government has to address. Nowadays, the Government is bringing in a number of new legislations and reforms. One among them is the FRDI Bill in which there is  a very strong criticism from most of the stakeholders.  The Government  is going even to reduce the power of the Reserve Bank of India and also is going to make a separate Resolution Corporation, Members of which would not be elected, but would be nominated by the Government.  I do not want to go into the details of this Bill as it is under  examination of the Joint Parliamentary Committee. Sir, it is a typical example where this Government is following the same methods and norms implemented in the western countries, who had faced a very serious financial crisis in the year 2008.  But in those days, our economy was strong in India.  The then Prime Minister, Dr. Manmohan Singh, had said that ‘our economy is very strong.’ We were supporting  his  Government at that time. We had said: ‘our economy is strong just because a large number of public sector undertakings, public sector banks and crores and crores of people are supporting you.’ 

But, Sir, now, this Government is weakening our pubic sector undertakings and public sector banks.  As a result, they are taking up the new liberal policy, which is being following and implemented in  western countries. It is not at all applicable to our country as we have to trust more on our public sector undertakings and public sector banks. Sir, in 2004, the number of billionaires in India was nine. Their income was Rs. 500 crore or more. But now, this number has gone to 100 plus. This House also discussed the issue of  huge NPAs in the banks especially the public sector banks. Twelve major individuals or the firms have to remit more than Rs. 1.50 lakh crore or more. This Parliament itself has sanctioned Rs. 1 lakh crore to the public sector banks, which  would really not be giving any relief  to the common people. It is just to compensate the big corportes, who had taken huge amounts of money from these banks.  So, this money, which is being taken from the Government, would assist and compensate the big corporates only. Therefore, the line or the policy of the Government is very clear, which is to give more and more assistance to the corporate sector. The situation has worsened after the demonetization and GST implementation where the medium and small-scale industries are closed. A large number of workers are thrown out their jobs. Our Prime Minister had said in this House: “You give 50 days to me; after 50 days, if the position is not better, you hang me.”  We had said: “You are our Prime Minister; we respect you.” Now, not only 50 days have gone, even one year has gone. What is the present position?  So, the demonetization and GST implementation have weakened our economy. Though our Finance Minister is not ready to admit it, yet in his mind, it is very clear because some of the decisions  are not taken at the level of the Finance Minister. We witnessed a number of very beautiful speeches made by our Finance Minister. Today, also, it was very beautifully crafted.  But we know that  he is not free in taking decisions.  Take for example, the decision of demonetization. It was not taken by him.  Of course, the Finance Minister has to answer it. So, in  such a situation, for any Finance Minister, it is difficult to present a better Budget in this House itself. Sir, this Government speaks about new India, digital India and shining India.  It is true that India is shining, but it is shining of the corporates, it is the shining of the billionaires and not the people, in general.  The common people are suffering and the rich people are shining.  That is the shining India, that is the digital India! 

Sir, the Budget is nice,  beautiful to hear and witness. It is like an  impression in the festival season where  fireworks give very magnificent and beautiful colours and scene in the sky, but within no time, it would disappear.  This is really the content of this Budget.  That is true as far as many of the schemes are concerned. I want to say something about my own State, Kerala.  Kerala is fully disappointed with the Budget proposals. As stated by my friends from Andhra, we have also been raising the issue of the rubber farmers.  You know that the economic condition of Kerala mainly depends on rubber. Not only for four years but for many years together, we have been demanding to increase the import duty on rubber.  The Government is not ready for that.  There is no support price for rubber. A large number of people, not only in Kerala but in other states also, are working in foreign countries.  We are getting crores and crores of rupees.  It is very sad to say that not even a single line is said about the NRIs.  It is because we are not able to give them jobs, they are going out of country and get jobs.  Why can you not give them some package?  The State of Kerala has done a lot in this field.  Just now, we have concluded a big conference of these NRIs.  We have done Loka Kerala Sabha but the Government of India has taken no steps in this regard. We have witnessed the Ockhi cyclone.  It has damaged a very large area.  A lot of people have been affected due to this.  The same thing has happened with the State of Tamil Nadu also.  The State Government has requested for a package of Rs. 7,400 crore and an immediate relief of Rs. 4,300 crore.  But we got only good words.  Our Prime Minister and other ministers have visited there but, I am sorry to say, nothing is given. Therefore, I request the Government to consider this issue very seriously. While implementing the GST, we thought that the income of the State might go up to 25 per cent. It was also the assumption of our Finance Minister.  But, now, it is clear that there is only 14 per cent increase. As a result, the expenditure is increasing.  There is more burden on the State Government.  When we asked about the change in share of the Centrally Sponsored Schemes, the Finance Minister said that you are going to get more money and you need not to worry about it. Now, our share has decreased.  Our burden has increased.  Therefore, I would like to urge the Finance Minister to compensate the loss that the State has to bear.   Even in IGST, we have to get, at least, Rs. 4,300 crore which is with you.  It has not been released.  The check-posts have been abolished all of a sudden.  The income has also gone.  But the E-way system has not come. So, many others issues have to come with the implementation of GST.  The State is really facing very serious difficulties. No new project is announced for our State.  As far as the health sector is concerned, you know that the State of Kerala is the first or the best.  You can see a number of examples. We have been asking for AIIMS as stated by other members. But no decision has been taken. There is also a commitment given in this House but that is not materialised. I have only two points as far as the Railways is concerned. The first issue is that there should be a discussion on the railways.  Nowadays, we have no discussion at all.… (Interruptions) We do not know what is happening in the railways. … (Interruptions) Secondly, there is a decline of about 23 per cent in the expenditure as far as the railways is concerned. As far as Kerala is concerned, we are disappointed.  I think, the Finance Minister may take some lenient steps on this issue. There is a reduction of Rs. 2 per litre in Excise Duty on petrol and diesel.  But, they have increased the prices of petroleum products by Rs. 4 per litre.  Where is the relief?  So, in such a situation, it has become an anti-people Budget.  So, I am compelled to oppose this Budget. Thank you, Sir. *श्रीमती अंजू बाला ( मिश्रिख ): देश के उर्जावान एवं यशस्वी प्रधानमंत्री आदरणीय श्री नरेंद्र मोदी के नेतृत्व वाली सरकार द्वारा प्रस्तुत,वर्ष 2018-19 के बजट का मैं समर्थन करती हूँ । यह इस सरकार का चौथा बजट है। चार वर्ष की अल्पावधि में इस सरकार ने कई उल्लेखनीय उपलब्धियॉं हासिल की हैं। प्रधानमंत्री श्री नरेंद्र मोदी की अगुवाई में सरकार ने अनेक बुनियादी संरचनात्मक सुधारों को सफलतापूर्वक कार्यान्वित किया है। इसके परिणामस्वरूप,भारत विश्व के सर्वाधिक तेजी से विकसित हो रही अर्थव्यवस्था वाले देशों की श्रेणी में शामिल हो गया है। सरकार द्वारा किए गए अनेक सुधारात्मक उपायों के परिणामस्वरूप देश में प्रत्यक्ष विदेशी निवेश में वृद्धि हुई है और अब भारत में व्यवसाय करना पहले से कहीं अधिक आसान हो गया है। अब प्राकृतिक संसाधनों के आवंटन में पारदर्शिता एवं ईमानदारी बरती जाने लगी है। अब ईमानदारी हमारे लिए सर्वोपरि हो गई है। डिजिटल प्रौद्योगिकी को प्रयोग में लाने से गरीबों को अधिक प्रभावी रूप में लक्षित करते हुए उन्हें लाभ पहुंचाया जाने लगा है। उच्च मूल्य की मुद्रा के विमुद्रीकरण से भारत में नकद मुद्रा एवं परिचालन की मात्रा में कमी आई है। इससे कराधान का आधार व्यापक हुआ है तथा देश में अर्थव्यवस्था के डिजिटाइजेशन में तेजी आई है । बैंकों का पुन:पूंजीकरण किया गया है और अब ये बैंक विकास की गति को सहायता प्रदान करने में पहले से कहीं अधिक सक्षम हैं। इन सभी संरचनात्मक सुधारों से मध्यम अवधि एवं दीर्घावधि में भारतीय अर्थव्यवस्था को लंबे समय तक टिकाऊ सुदृढ़ विकास गति को प्राप्त करने में सहायता प्राप्त होगी। भारत की अर्थव्यवस्था में काफी सुधार हुआ है । हमारी सरकार के पहले 3 वर्षों में भारत में आर्थिक विकास की औसत दर 7.5 प्रतिशत पर पहुंच गई है । भारतीय अर्थव्यवस्था अब 2.5 ट्रिलियन डालर की अर्थव्यवस्था है तथा विश्व की सातवीं सबसे बड़ी अर्थव्यवस्था है । क्रय शक्ति समानता (पीपीपी) आधार पर हमारा पहले से ही विश्व की तीसरी सबसे बड़ी अर्थव्यवस्था वाला देश है । भारतीय समाज ने राजनीति तथा अर्थव्यवस्था ने संरचनात्मक सुधारों को अपनाने में उल्लेखनीय लोच प्रदर्शित की है। दूसरी तिमाही में सकल घरेलू उत्पाद (जीडीपी) की 6.3 प्रतिशत की वृद्धि दर ने अर्थव्यवस्था में आमूलचूल बदलाव आने का संकेत दिया था । वित्त वर्ष की दूसरी छमाही में हमारे जीडीपी में 7.2 प्रतिशत से 7.5 प्रतिशत की दर से वृद्धि होने की आशा है। अंतरर्राष्ट्रीय मुद्रा कोष ने अपनी हालिया रिपोर्ट में यह अनुमान लगाया है कि आगामी वर्ष के दौरान भारत की विकास दर 7.4 प्रतिशत होगी। हम 8 प्रतिशत से भी अधिक की उच्च विकास दर को प्राप्त करने के पथ पर मजबूती से आगे बढ़ रहे हैं । विनिर्माण क्षेत्र भी विकास के तीव्रतर पथ पर लौट आया है । सेवा क्षेत्र,जो हमारे विकास का एक मुख्य क्षेत्र है,इसमें भी 8 प्रतिशत से भी अधिक की उच्च दर से वृद्धि हो रही है । वर्ष 2017-18 में हमारे निर्यात में 15 प्रतिशत की दर से वृद्धि होने का अनुमान है । प्रधानमंत्री श्री नरेंद्र मोदी ने हमेशा से ही अच्छे प्रशासन के महत्व पर बल दिया है। आपने"न्यूनतम सरकार तथा अधिकतम शासन"की अवधारणा पर बल दिया है। इस अवधारणा से सरकारी एजेंसियां नियमों, नीतियों तथा प्रक्रियाओं में सैकड़ों सुधार लाने के लिए प्रेरित हुई हैं। यह बदलाव भारत द्वारा गत तीन वर्षों के दौरान विश्व बैंक की रिपोर्ट "इज ऑफ डूइंग बिजनेस" में शामिल देशों की रैंकिंग में 42 स्थान के सुधार आने से प्रदर्शित होता है। भारत पहली बार इस सूची में शीर्षस्थ 100 देशों की श्रेणी में शामिल हो गया है । सरकार अब "इज ऑफ डूइंग बिजनेस" से आगे बढ़कर देश के जनसामान्य,विशेषकर गरीब और मध्यम वर्ग की जिंदगी को आसान बनाने के लिए,उनकी"ईज ऑफ लिविंग"पर जोर दे रही है। गुड गवर्नेंस का आधार भी यही है कि देश के आम नागरिक के जीवन में सरकारी दखल कम से कम हो । उज्‍ज्‍वला योजना के माध्यम से सरकार देश के गरीबों को मुफ्त गैस कनेक्‍शन दे रही है। सौभाग्य योजना के जरिए चार करोड़ घरों को बिजली कनेक्शन से जोड़ा जा रहा है। 3 हजार से ज्यादा जन औषधि केंद्रों में 800 से ज्यादा दवाइयां कम कीमत में बेची जा रही हैं । स्टेंट की कीमत नियंत्रित की गई है। गरीबों के लिए मुफ्त डायलिसिस के लिए विशेष योजना शुरू की गई है। गरीबों और मध्यम वर्ग को आवास योजनाओं में भी ब्याज दर में बड़ी राहत दी जा रही है । सरकारी सेवाएं, चाहे बस-ट्रेन का टिकट हो या फिर अलग-अलग प्रमाण-पत्र,सभी को ऑनलाईन उपलब्ध कराने का प्रयास किया जा रहा है। दो से तीन दिन के भीतर घर पर आने वाला पासपोर्ट हो, या एक दिन में रजिस्टर होने वाली कंपनी,इससे देश के बड़े वर्ग को लाभ पहुंचा है । सर्टिफिकेट अटेस्टेड कराने की बाध्यता खत्म करने और ग्रुप सी व डी की नौकरी में इंटरव्यू खत्म किए जाने से लाखों नौजवानों के समय और पैसे की बचत हुई है । अनेक सेवाएं तथा लाभ जनता को उसके द्वार पर उपलब्ध कराए जा रहे हैं तथा वित्तीय लाभ सीधे उनके बैंक खाते में पहंचाए जा रहे हैं। इससे भ्रष्टाचार पर लगाम लगी है तथा लाभ एवं सेवाओं की सुपुर्दगी की लागत कम हुई तथा इस प्रक्रिया में बिचौलिए की भूमिका समाप्त हो गई है । भारत में शुरू की गई प्रत्यक्ष लाभ अंतरण का तंत्र विश्व में अपने प्रकार का सबसे बड़ा है और विश्व भर को हमारे देश की सफलता की कहानी का संदेश देता है । हमारी सरकार किसानों के कल्याण के लिए प्रतिबद्ध है । माननीय प्रधानमंत्री ने वर्ष 2022 तक जबकि भारत अपना 75वां स्वतंत्रता दिवस मना रहा होगा, किसानों की आय को दोगुनी करने के संबंध में आह्वान किया है। हमारा बल किसानों के लिए अधिक आय सृजित करने पर है। हम कृषि को एक उद्यम मानते हैं और किसानों को उसी भूखंड से अपेक्षाकृत कम लागत पर अधिक उत्पादन करने तथा अपने उत्पादों के लिए अधिक मूल्य प्राप्त करने में सहायता करना चाहते हैं । हम किसानों तथा भूमिहीन परिवारों के लिए उत्पादक तथा लाभकारी आन-फार्म एवं नॉन-फार्म रोजगार सृजित करने पर भी बल दे रहे हैं । देश के किसानों के अथक परिश्रम का परिणाम है कि आज देश में कृषि उत्पादन रिकार्ड स्तर पर है। वर्ष 2016-17 में लगभग 275 मिलियन टन खाद्यान्न और लगभग 300 मिलियन टन फलों एवं सब्जियों का ऐतिहासिक उत्पादन हुआ है। हमारी सरकार ने किसान भाईयों को उनकी उत्पादन की लागत से कम से कम 50 प्रतिशत अधिक अर्थात् लागत से डेढ़ गुना दाम मिले,ऐसी व्यवस्था देने का प्रयास किया है और रबी की अधिकांश घोषित फसलों का न्यूनतम समर्थन मूल्य लागत से कम से डेढ़ गुना तय किया जा चुका है। अब सरकार ने बची हुई अधिघोषित फसलों के लिए भी इस संकल्प को एक सिद्धांत की तरह लागू करने का फैसला लिया है। मुझे अत्यंत प्रसनता का अनुभव हो रहा है कि तय किये गए सिद्धांत के अनुसार,सरकार ने आगामी खरीफ से सभी अधिघोषित फसलों का न्यूनतम समर्थन मूल्य उत्पादन लागत के कम से कम डेढ़ गुना करने का फैसला लिया है। मेरा विश्वास है कि ऐतिहासिक निर्णय किसान भाइयों की आय दोगुनी करने की दिशा में एक महत्वपूर्ण कदम साबित होगा । हमारे 86प्रतिशत से भी अधिक किसान अभी भी लघु एवं सीमांत किसान हैं । ये हर बार एपीएमसी में या अन्य थोक बाजारों में सीधे अपने उत्पादों को बेचने की स्थिति में नहीं होते। मौजूदा 22000 ग्रामीण हाटों को ग्रामीण कृषि बाजारों के रूप में विकसित तथा उन्नत किया जायेगा तथा इसके लिए 22000 ग्रामीण कृषि बाजारों तथा 585 एपीएमसी में कृषि विपणन अवसंरचना के विकास तथा उन्नयन के लिए 2000 करोड़ रुपये की स्थायी निधि के साथ एक कृषि बाजार अवसंरचना कोष की स्थापना किये जाने का प्रावधान किया है । भारत एक कृषि प्रधान देश है । जैसे भारत एक कृषि प्रधान देश है वैसे ही देश के जिले भी किसी न किसी कृषि उत्पाद के लिए जाने जा सकते हैं । जैसे उद्योग जगत के लिए क्लस्टर बेस्ड विकास का मॉडल अपनाया गया वैसे ही हमारे जिलों में कृषि उत्पाद को चिह्नित कर,वैज्ञानिक तरीके से क्लस्टर मॉडल पर विकास की आवश्यकता है और सरकार इस दिशा में प्रयासरत है। कृषि तथा किसान कल्याण मंत्रालय,खाद्य प्रसंस्करण मंत्रालय,वाणिज्य मंत्रालय तथा अन्य संबद्ध मंत्रालयों के साथ मिलकर अपनी चालू स्कीमों की समीक्षा करेगा तथा कृषि जीन्सों एवं संबंधित क्षेत्रों के समूह आधारित विकास को बढ़ावा देगा। सरकार ने जैविक कृषि को बढ़ावा दिया है । इसके लिए बड़े समूहों में जिनमें से प्रत्येक 1000 हेक्टेयर क्षेत्रफल का हो, कृषि उत्पादक संगठनों एवं ग्रामीण उत्पादक संगठनों द्वारा जैविक कृषि को बढ़ावा दिया जाएगा । महिला स्व-सहायता समूहों को भी राष्ट्रीय ग्रामीण आजीविका कार्यक्रम के अंतर्गत समूहों में जैविक कृषि करने के लिए प्रोत्साहित किया जाएगा । हमारी पारिस्थितिकी अत्यधिक विशिष्ट औषधीय एवं सुगंध पौधों की खेती के भी अनुकूल है। भारत में बड़ी संख्या में लघु एवं कुटीर उद्योग भी चलाए जाते हैं, जिनमें इत्र, इन्हें विकसित करने के लिए प्रयोग में लाए जाने वाले तेलों एवं अन्य संबंधित उत्पादों को तैयार किया जाता है। सरकार ने 200 करोड़ रुपये की राशि संगठित कृषि एवं संबद्ध उद्योग के प्रयोजनार्थ आबंटित की है। खाद्य प्रसंस्करण क्षेत्र प्रति वर्ष औसतन 8 प्रतिशत की दर से विकसित हो रहा है । प्रधानमंत्री कृषि संपदा योजना खाद्य प्रसंस्करण के क्षेत्र में निवेश को  बढ़ावा देने के लिए हमारा अग्रणी कार्यक्रम है । खाद्य प्रसंस्करण मंत्रालय के लिए आबंटन की राशि 2017-18 के संशोधित अनुमान के 715 करोड़ रुपये से लगभग दोगुना करके 2018-19 में 1400 करोड़ रुपये किया जा रहा है । टमाटर,प्याज और आलू ऐसी प्रमुख सब्जियां हैं,जिन्हें पूरे वर्ष प्रयोग में लाया जाता है। तथापि, इन शीघ्र नष्ट हो जाने वाले जिन्सों के मौसमी एवं क्षेत्रीय उत्पादन के कारण किसानों एवं उपभोक्ताओं दोनों को संतुष्ट करते हुए उनके बीच पारस्परिक संपर्क स्थापित करना चुनौतीपूर्ण है। सरकार का प्रस्ताव "ऑपरेशन फ्लड" की तर्ज पर "ऑपरेशन ग्रीन्स" शुरू करने का है। “ऑपरेशन ग्रीन्स" किसान उत्पादक संगठनों,कृषि संभारतंत्र,प्रसंस्करण सुविधाओं तथा व्यावसायिक प्रबंधन क्रो अपनाने के लिए प्रोत्साहन प्रदान करेगा । भारत से कृषि उत्पादों के निर्यात की संभावना काफी अधिक है, जो 100 बिलियन अमरीकी डालर तक हो सकती है जबकि मौजूदा निर्यात 30 बिलियन अमरीकी डालर मूल्य का किया जाता है। इस संभावना को प्रयोग में लाने के लिए कृषि जिन्सों के निर्यात को उदार बनाया जाएगा एवं सभी 42 मैगा फूड पार्कों में अत्याधुनिक परीक्षण सुविधाएं स्थापित की जायेंगी । सरकार किसान क्रैडिट कार्डों की सुविधा मत्सिकी एवं पशुपालन से जुडे किसानों को भी उपलब्ध कराएगी ताकि वे अपनी कार्य चालन पूंजी संबंधी आवश्यकताओं को पूरा कर सकें । इस व्यवस्था से छोटे और सीमांत किसानों को अधिक लाभ मिलेगा। बांस “हरित सोना" है । अब सरकार ने 1290 ’करोड़ रुपये के परिव्यय के साथ एक पुनगर्ठित राष्ट्रीय बांस मिशन शुरू करने का निर्णय किया हैं। ग्रामीण विकास विभाग ग्रामीण निर्धनों के जीवन स्तर में सुधार के लिए सतत प्रयासरत रहा है। वर्ष 2012-13 के 50162 करोड़ रूपये के बजटीय प्रावधान से 2017-18 में ग्रामीण विकास विभाग का आबंटन 109042.45 करोड़ रूपये पर पहुंच गया। इसके अलावा 2017-18 के दौरान ग्रामीण विकास विभाग के कार्यक्रमों के लिए पीएमजीएसवाई तथा पीएमएवाई में उच्चतर वित्त आयोग अनुदान तथा राज्य के अधिक भागीदारी भी उपलब्ध थे। कुल मिलाकर यह सब 2012-13 में उपलब्ध थी । कुल निधि से लगभग 3 गुणा है । बढ़े हुए वित्तीय प्रावधान के अतिरिक्त,ग्रामीण विकास ने सामाजिक-आर्थिक जातीय जनगणना-2011 (एसईसीसी-2011),आईटी/डीबीटी भुगतान प्रणाली, लेन-देन आधारित कार्यक्रम एमआईएस तथा सम्पदाओं के जियो-टेगिंग के लिए अंतरिक्ष प्रोद्योगिकी का उपयोग करके पारदर्शिता बढ़ाने के लिए दूरगामी प्रशासनिक व्यवस्था शुरू की है । प्रधानमंत्री ग्रामीण सड़क योजना का लक्ष्य मैदानी क्षेत्र में 500 की जनसंख्या तथा पहाड़ी क्षेत्र में रह रही 250 जनसंख्या वाले 1,78,184 निवासियों के लिए सभी मौसमों के दौरान सड़क सम्पर्क मुहैया कराना है । मार्च,2014 तक 97,838 निवासियों (55 प्रतिशत) को इससे जोड़ा गया। आज प्रधानमंत्री ग्रामीण सड़क योजना के अंतर्गत 1,30,947 निवासियों तथा राज्य सरकारों के कार्यक्रमों के माध्यम से अन्य 14,620 निवासियों को इससे जोड़ा गया जिससे कुल 82 प्रतिशत निवासी इससे जुड़ चुके हैं। 2016-17 में 130 किलोमीटर प्रतिदिन की दर से कुल 47447 किलोमीटर सड़कों का निर्माण किया गया था । 2017-18 में 140 किलोमीटर प्रतिदिन की गति से इसे 51,000 किलोमीटर तक ले जाने के प्रयास किए जा रहे हैं। इससे मार्च, 2019 तक सभी पात्र निवासी सभी मौसमीय सड़क सम्पर्क पूर्ण उपलब्धि प्राप्त करने में समर्थ हो जाएंगे । हम कृषि बाजार (मंडी) के लिए अच्छी-चौड़ी सड़कों को ध्यान में रखते हुए मौजूदा चुनिंदा ग्रामीण सड़कों के उन्नयन के लिए उनके आर्थिक महत्व और ग्रामीण बाजार केद्रों तथा ग्रामीण हबों में वृद्धि को सुविधा प्रदानगी में उनकी भूमिका के आधार पर प्रावधान करके ग्रामीण सड़क तंत्र समेकित करना चाहते हैं । इससे चरण- ।।। और सुदृढ़ होगा जिसका पहले ही कार्यान्वयन जारी है। प्रधानमंत्री ग्रामीण सड़क योजना-।।। के रूप में 1,10,000 किलोमीटर का उन्नयन प्रस्तावित है। ऐसा करने के लिए 2022 तक केद्रीय सरकार से 19,000 करोड़ रूपये के वार्षिक वित्तपोषण की व्यवस्था जारी रखी जाएगी । प्रधानमंत्री के "नया भारत-2022"' के स्वप्न को पूरा करने के लिए बाजारों को सड़कों से जोड़ने और उन्हें निकट लाने की जरूरत है ताकि किसान बाजारों का लाभ उठा सकें । सड़कों के रखरखाव और सभी सड़कों को बीआईएस मैंपिंग के महत्व को समझते हुए निश्चित तौर पर एक दमदार रखरखाव नीति तैयार करने और उन्हें निकट लाने को जरूरत है ताकि किसान बाजारों का लाभ उठा सकें । सड़कों के रखरखाव और सभी सड़कों कीं जीआईएस मैपिंग के महत्व को समझते हुए निश्चित तौर पर एक दमदार रखरखाव नीति तैयार करने और सभी सड़कों की जीआईएस मैपिंग को पूरा करने के साथ वित्त पोषण की व्यवस्था भी जरूरी है। इससे उच्च मानकों के साथ पीएमजीएसवाई सड़कों का रखरखाव सुनिश्चित होगा । 15 फीसदी पीएमजीएसवाई सड़कों को अब प्लास्टिक. जियो-टेक्सटाइल-फ्लाई एश, लोहा और तांबे के कचरे के इस्तेमाल जैसी नवोन्मेषी हरित प्रौद्योगिकी के इस्तेमाल से तैयार किया जा रहा है । इससे न केवल निर्माण लागत में कमी आएगी बल्कि स्थानीय कचरे के इस्तेमाल को बढ़ावा मिलेगा । दीनदयाल अंत्योदय योजना-राष्ट्रीय ग्रामीण आजीविका मिशन में विविधता लाने के लिए 4.5 करोड़ से अधिक महिलाओं का एसएचजी के तहत लाया गया। क्षमता विकास एवं कौशल प्रशिक्षण के जरिए आर्थिक गतिविधियों के लिए बैंक लिंकेज में भी पिछले कुछ वर्षों के दौरान उल्लेखनीय विस्तार किया गया है। वर्ष 2014-15 में 23,953 करोड़ रूपये के बैंक लिंकेज से वर्तमान ऋण बकाये का आकार बढ़कर करीब 60 हजार करोड़ रूपये हो गया है। पिछले कुछ वर्षों के दौरान उत्तरी,पूर्वी और पूर्वोत्तर राज्यों में महिला एसएचजी के तहत आजीविका में भी दक्षिणी राज्यों के एसएचसी को तरह विविधता आई है । इससे गरीब परिवारों को अपनी आय और उत्पादकता बढ़ाकर गरीबी से बाहर आने में मदद मिलेगी। एक हजार ऑर्गेनिक क्लस्टर के विकास को ओर रूख करते हुए सतत कृषि के लिए 32 लाख से अधिक महिला किसानों के साथ काम किया जा रहा है । मनरेगा ने समय को जरूरत के मुताबिक सामाजिक बीमा की भूमिका प्रदान की है। पिछले तीन साल के दौरान दिहाड़ी रोजगार के लिए संसाधनों का प्रभावी तौर पर इस्तेमाल किया गया ताकि गरीब परिवारों के लिए आजीविका सुरक्षा में सुधार हो सके । इस दौरान 10 लाख से अधिक तालाब और 6.7 लाख कम्पोस्ट पिट तैयार किए गए । इसके अलावा विभिन्न राज्यों में 1.6 लाख लिक्विड रिसोर्स मैनेजमेंट सोक पिट और सॉलिड रिसोर्स मैनेजमेंट तैयार किए गए। मनरेगा संसाधनों का इस्तेमाल गरीब परिवारों को 90 से 95 दिनों के लिए काम उपलब्ध कराने और स्वच्छ भारत मिशन अथवा मनरेगा के तहत गरीब परिवारों को शौचालय सहित नया मकान उपलब्ध कराने में किया गया । पिछले तीन साल के दौरान 71.50 लाख मकान पहले ही तैयार किए जा चुके हैं जिसमें 17.83 लाख पीएमएवाई(जी) मकान भी शामिल हैं । 33 लाख अतिरिक्त पीएमवाई(जी) मकान 31 मार्च, 2018 तक पूरे होने की उम्मीद है क्योंकि वे पहले से ही उन्नत चरण में पहुंच चुके हैं । मनरेगा का इस्तेमाल आजीविका संसाधन के तौर पर किया जा रहा है और यह तालाब, सिंचाई के कुएं, बकरी पालन, दुग्ध उत्पादन, मुर्गी पालन आदि जैसी व्यक्तिगत लाभकारी योजनाओं में शामिल हैं । डीओआरडी ने उम्मीद जताई है कि 2022 तक नए भारत के निर्माण के साथ ग्रामीण क्षेत्र की गरीबी दूर हो जाएगी । इसे ग्रामीण आजीविका में विविधीकरण और बुनियादी ढॉंचे में सुधार जैसे ठोस कदमों से बल मिलेगा । विभाग गरीबी के सभी आयामों को प्रभावी तौर पर दूर करने के लिए राज्य सरकारों के साथ मिलकर 50 हजार ग्राम पंचायतों में 5000 कलस्टर स्थापित करने के लिए काम पहले ही शुरू कर चुका है । विभाग हर साल 7 लाख गरीब परिवारों के लिए ग्रामीण स्वरोजगार प्रशिक्षण संस्थान (आरएसईटीआई) के जरिए स्वरोजगार और डीडीयूजीकेवाई के तहत दिहाड़ी रोजगार के लिए कौशल का विकास दर रहा है। कौशल भारत कार्यक्रम को प्रभावी तौर पर लागू करने के साथ-साथ डीडीयूजीकेवाई और आरएसईटीआई कार्यक्रमों के बेहतर कार्यान्वयन के जरिए गरीब परिवारों के कौशल सुधार लाने और क्षमता बेहतर करने की कोशिश की जा रही है। पिछले बजट में मिशन अंत्योदय के तहत 50000 ग्राम पंचायतों के एक करोड़ परिवारों को गरीबी से बाहर लाने की घोषणा को गई थी । ग्रामीण विकास विभाग ने इन ग्राम पंचायतों की रैकिंग की है। बुनियादी ढांचा मानव विकास एवं आर्थिक मानदंडों में खाई को पहचान की जा रही है और सरकार उन खाइयों को पाटने और सबसे गरीब परिवारों के जीवन में बदलाव लाने के लिए प्रतिबद्ध है । सर्वेभवन्तु: सुखिन:, सर्वे संतु : निरामया के मार्गदर्शक के सिद्धांत को ध्यान में रखते हुए सरकार का मानना है कि स्वास्थ्य मानव विकास का हृदय है। सरकार एक मज़बूत स्वास्थ्य प्रणाली और जन केंद्रित प्राथमिक स्वास्थ्य देखभाल प्रणाली तैयार करने के लिए प्रतिबद्ध है जो कि लोगों के घरों के नजदीक हो। आयुष्मान भारत के तहत सरकार ने जिन दो दूरगामी पहलों की घोषणा की है वे 2022 तक नए भारत का निर्माण करेंगी । इससे संवर्धित उत्पादकता कल्याण में वृद्धि होगी और इनसे मजदूरी की हानि और दरिद्रता से बचा जा सकेगा। राष्ट्रीय स्वास्थ्य नीति 2017 में भारत को स्वास्थ्य प्रणाली की नींव के रूप में स्वास्थ्य और आरोग्य केंद्रों की परिकल्पना की गई है । ये 1.5 लाख केन्द्र,स्वास्थ्य देखभाल प्रणाली को लोगों के घरों के नजदीक लाएंगे । ये स्वास्थ्य केंद्र असंचारी रोगों और मातृत्व तथा बाल स्वास्थ्य सेवाओं सहित व्यापक स्वास्थ्य देखरेख उपलब्ध कराएंगे । यह केंद्र आवश्यक दवाइयां और नैदानिक सेवाएं भी मुफ्त उपलब्ध कराएंगे । आयुष्मान भारत के तहत दूसरा कार्यक्रम स्वास्थ्य संरक्षण योजना है । हम सब जानते हैं कि देश में लाखों परिवारों को अस्पतालों में अंतरंग इलाज कराने के लिए उधार लेना पड़ता है या संपत्तियां बेचनी पड़तीं हैं । सरकार ऐसे परिवारों के प्रति चिंतित है । मौजूदा राष्ट्रीय स्वास्थ्य बीमा योजना स्कीम गरीब परिवारों को 30,000 रूपये की वार्षिक कवरेज प्रदान करती है। अनेक राज्य सरकारों ने भी कवरेज में विविधता उपलब्ध कराके स्वास्थ्य संरक्षण योजनाएं कार्यान्वित अनुपूरित की है । अब हमारी सरकार ने स्वास्थ्य संरक्षण को और अधिक आकांक्षा वाला स्तर प्रदान करने का निर्णय लिया है । राष्ट्रीय स्वास्थ्य संरक्षण योजना के तहत 11 करोड़ से अधिक गरीब और कमजोर परिवारों को प्रति वर्ष 5 लाख रूपए तक का इलाज हेतु कवरेज दिया जा रहा है। इस योजना के लिए इस वर्ष 2000 करोड़ रूपए का आवंटन किया गया है । राज्यों के पास इस योजना को लागू करने के लिए ट्रस्ट मॉडल या बीमा कम्पनी आधारित मॉडल अपनाने का विकल्प है हालांकि ट्रस्ट मॉडल को प्राथमिकता दी जाएगी । आयुष्मान भारत के तहत ये दो दूरगामी पहल वर्ष 2022 तक एक नए भारत का निर्माण करेंगी और इनमें संवर्धित उत्पादकता,कल्याण में वृद्धि होगी और इनसे मजदूरी की हानि और दरिद्रता से बचा जा सकेगा । इन योजनाओं से,खासकर महिलाओं के लिए रोजगार के लाखों अवसर सृजित होंगे ।सरकार सर्वजन स्वास्थ्य कवरेज के लिए स्थायी रूप से किन्तु निश्चित रूप से उत्तरोत्तर अग्रसर है । किसी दूसरी संक्रामक बीमारी की तुलना में टी.बी. से हर वर्ष अधिक जानें जाती हैं। यह मुख्य रूप से गरीब और कुपोषित लोगों को प्रभावित करती है। इसलिए सरकार टीबी. से पीड़ित सभी रोगियों को उनके उपचार की अवधि के दौरान500 रूपये प्रति माह के हिसाब से पोषाहार सहायता प्रदान करने के लिए 600 करोड़ रूपये को अतिरिक्त राशि आवंटित की है। गुणवत्तायुक्त चिकित्सा',शिक्षा और स्वास्थ्य देख-रेख की पहुंच में और वृद्धि करने के उद्देश्य से,हम देश में मौजूद जिला अस्पतालों को अपग्रेड करके 24 नए सरकारी चिकित्सा कॉलेजों और अस्पतालों की स्थापना करेंगे । इस कदम से यह सुनिश्चित होगा कि प्रत्येक 3 संसदीय क्षेत्रों के लिए कम से कम एक चिकित्सा कॉलेज और देश के प्रत्येक राज्य में कम से कम एक सरकारी चिकित्सा कॉलेज हो इसके अतिरिक्त सिक्किम में सरकारी चिकित्सा कॉलेज की स्थापना की जाएगी क्योंकि वहाँ अभी एक भी सरकारी चिकित्सा कॉलेज नहीं है। उपरोक्त पहलों के लिए केंद्र और राज्य की हिस्सेदारी क्रमश: 60:40 होगी । इसके साथ ही मैं यह भी कहना चाहती हूँ कि मैं जिस मिश्रिख संसदीय क्षेत्र से निर्वाचित हुई हूँ, यह देश के अत्यधिक पिछडे क्षेत्रों में आता है । यहाँ पर तेजी से विकास कार्यों को करने की आवश्यकता है । मैंने पिछले वर्ष भी यह मांग की थी कि मेरे क्षेत्र में बहने वाली गंगा नदी के बायें तट पर तटबंध बनाये जाने की आवश्यकता है। प्रत्येक वर्ष लाखों की संख्या में यहाँ किसान बेघर होते हैं। उनका घर जमीन सभी कुछ बाढ़ को चपेट में आ जाता है और ये लोग दाने-दाने को मोहताज हो जाते हैं । तटबंध बनने से न केवल इन्हें बाढ़ के प्रकोप से मुक्ति मिलेगी अपितु इस क्षेत्र में पर्यटन के नये अवसर भी खुलेंगे । मैंने पूर्व में कई बार संडीला और बालामऊ रेलवे क्रासिंग पर ओवरब्रिज बनाने की मॉंग की है परन्तु अभी तक 2016-17 के बजट में धनराशि स्वीकृत होने के बावजूद अभी तो कोई प्रगति नहीं हो पाई है । इसलिए इस बजट का समर्थन करते हुए मेरे क्षेत्र को उपरोक्त समस्याओं के निवारण हेतु सरकार का ध्यान आकर्षित करना चाहती हूँ । *SHRIMATI BUTTA RENUKA ( KURNOOL ): I am extremely delighted to have got an opportunity to place my views on the Union Budget 2018-19. I have gone through the budget proposals and I am both happy on uncertain initiatives and unhappy on certain aspects. Budget offers lot of optimism and is ray of hope for the middle class and unemployed. Its focus on women and rural development is laudable. Very good thrust is given to Agriculture and farming community. It has also initiated steps to reform tax structure and as a first step provided relief to salaried section by way of Standard Deduction. This will immensely help the middle class salaried and pensioners. Next to agriculture, corporate sector employs largest workforce and is an important driver of the economy. Though some relief is provided in the form of reduction in corporate tax, it is restricted to a section. As a woman parliamentarian I am extremely happy to note that this government has undertaken to do a lot for women. Construction of toilets will be a big morale booster apart from being a health initiative especially to rural woman. The best scheme that has been formulated for the benefit of Agriculturists since independence is Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana with very attractive premium rates. However the scheme does not cover the product price fluctuations. The constituency which I represent is a major producer of tomatoes from where they are supplied to neighbouring states of Andhra Pradesh.With a good crop this year farmers were totally devastated at the price which is around a Rupee for a kg. It does not even cover transportation. There is no minimum support to the produce. I request the government to provide minimum support price for tomato. I request the government to formulate a scheme for the development of storage facilities for tomato producers so that the farmers can sell the produce later when they command good price. I request the government for providing insurance mechanism to cover losses on account of price fluctuations so that the farmer can be compensated for the expenses incurred in cultivating tomato. When it comes to the handloom sector, it leaves everyone worried. Unable to survive on this industry many are diverting to other activities and converting as labour. It is time to provide substantial relief to the weaving community by designing appropriate schemes. I am extremely disappointed at the treatment given to Andhra Pradesh in the Budget. The non-implementation of the assurances given on the floor of the house and in the AP Reorganisation Act has given rise to lot of discontentment among the people of Andhra Pradesh. The creation of separate railway  zone for Visakhapatnam, Steel Plant at Kadapa are some of the major disappointments. Once cancer hospital was approved for establishment  in Kurnool. It is highly unfortunate that the work in setting up the cancer hospital  has not yet commenced leading apprehensions in the minds of people. I also request the Hon'ble Prime Minister to sanction RIMS (Rayalseema Institute of Medical Sciences) status to  Kurnool Medical College. This will serve not only the people of Rayalaseema but also bordering districts of Telegana and Karnataka. I request this government to design a special package for Rayalaseema and implement the same in a time bound programme so that it can become on a par with other areas of state. SHRIMATI SUPRIYA SULE ( BARAMATI ): Sir, speaking on behalf of my Party, regarding this Budget which this hon. Government has brought, this is the last full Budget that the Government is placing on the Table of this House.  As we are all aware, actually the whole Budget discussion has been in a very hostile environment.  It is probably the first time that the allies of the Ruling Party are in such a hostile mood.  We have also been allies for several years and I have been here in this House for over a decade.  But, I have never seen such a mistrust from an alliance in such a public forum.  Normally, these things are debated in closed doors.  If the ally is feeling so cheated by the Government, what should the common man think?  I think, it is really a matter of concern.  I do not say this just as a Member of Parliament but, as a citizen, I would like to ask the Government that if there is so much mistrust and all the three allies are saying the same thing, not just in Parliament, even outside Parliament, where is really India headed and where is this Government headed?  That is the first question I would like to ask. I would like to quote Voltaire here. This seems like a Government that ‘I don’t know where I am going, but I am on my way.’  So, they really do not know where they are going but they are on their way.  That is what really worries me because this Government has made a lot of very interesting promises.  Sometimes when you hear all their speeches, I feel I am in Disneyland. Everything looks so beautiful and so real.  But, what I would like to bring to the notice of the hon. Finance Minister – I am fortunate the hon. Finance Minister is present here – is in the context of Minimum Support Price for farmers.  I come from a society and a State which is highly agrarian.  It is a very modern State but still agriculture is the backbone of Maharashtra, the way even industrialisation is. At the same time, yesterday, I had a fortunate chance to ask the hon. Agriculture Minister a question on Minimum Support Price.  The hon. Finance Minister in his Budget Speech has said that they are already giving one-and-a-half times of the crop price that the farmer is looking for.  The question I asked the hon. Agriculture Minister is this.  What is the formula they are using?  There are a couple of formulas that are recommended.  The Government normally takes it from the CACP which recommends it and then it goes to the Ministry.  Then there is a Cabinet that decides on it.  But, in the process, there are two major formulas that are used.  One is the AF plus, the friendly labour one and plus, which anyway during the UPA 2 was also given with a plus 20 per cent to 30 per cent.   It is a continuity.  Even when this Government came, they were anyway giving the A2+FL formula.  They also were giving the C2 formula.  But, according to what the Budget Speech said, which formula they are looking at which is one-and-a-half times?  If they do C2 plus 50 per cent, that is really one-and-a-half times.  Look at my State.  I come from Maharashtra where the normal cost of cultivation is far higher than rest of the country.  So, what happens in a State like mine?  About the honourable larger part of the Government, I could quote one of their official Spokespersons who spoke on one of the television channels two days ago who said that we are not following the C2 formula and we are not looking at land rent cost.  So, C2 includes the land rent cost.  So, what is the formula?  Yesterday, the hon. Agriculture Minister in his speech said that the NITI Aayog and the States will decide.  So, we still do not know what the formula is.  So, I would request the hon. Finance Minister to tell this nation – we are all curious – how this one-and-a-half times is going to be achieved.  To give you an example of one crop from my State.  One-and-a-half times they are going to get.  So, it is C2 plus 50 per cent; that really makes one-and-a-half times. The other question is this.  To give you an example of tur dal –  tur dal issue is very critical in my State right now – you will be surprised that the Minimum Support Price recommended by the Government is Rs. 5,450 per quintal as of today.  Yesterday, in Maharashtra, it was not moving beyond Rs. 4,400 per quintal.  The market is not even flooded yet. Unless the Government steps in and aggressively buys this, how is my crop protected? The Government keeps talking about what the wonderful initiative they have done in dal.  So, how is the tur dal farmer going to survive if he is not getting the minimum support price?  We urged the Maharashtra Government.  We even requested the Central Government to step in.  But unfortunately, we got no reply yesterday from the Agriculture Minister. So, I take this opportunity to ask the Finance Minister as to what he has in his mind for our farmers. That is not only from my State but it happens in various States also.  The tur dal crisis is going on. The same thing is with soyabean. We have had a crisis for soyabean. This year Vidarbha has had a bumper crop of cotton and soyabean but unfortunately, because of rain, soyabean has been hurt and in cotton, this year we have had a new infection called pink-worm which  is called bond alin in Marathi.  The entire crop has been wiped out.  Now, what happens in this kind of a situation? At many times, the Government has talked about loan waiver. I remember when the UP Government came, the first decision that the Government took was to do complete loan waiver.  So, why only the State of Uttar Pradesh is given this?   We are very happy.  I am a farmer’s daughter.  So, I do sympathise and empathise with this.  If UP can do it, why cannot the rest of the country and why not my State of Maharashtra get a complete loan waiver?  So, let it be an equal playing field for every farmer. It is because he is the one--with all the digital India, all the job creations, all the MUDRAs of the world--unless he is the person who brings you food on the table, what are you going to do with the money?  It is not that this Government has much money. This is what the Budget claims, I mean it is all looking like.  So, the entire thing about giving one-and-a-half times more truly looks like an eye-wash.  So, I just recommend one thing. There was a Price Stabilisation Fund during the UPA time.  Why cannot this Government expand it? When there is a crisis like this, why not use this Price Stabilisation Fund for all the farmers who are in crisis because they work very hard? They are not asking anything for free.  They are asking for their basic rights.  So, why do we not rise in support of the farmer as a sentiment of this entire House because I do not think anybody in the State or in the country is against anything special done for a farmer and this farmer is not asking for any other thing.  He is just asking for his basic rights. So, I would urge the hon. Minister to look into this. He is not the only one but you see, even the Economic Survey, be it on agriculture, be it on education, is so harshly criticising on this. I have real concern about the farmers and I would urge the hon. Finance Minister to really look into it and clarify again because the promises made by their Government were something else and today the formula and the reality on ground is different.  Actually, the Government likes to believe that one-and-a-half times more was the amount given to them. Sir, would there be an agrarian crisis?  Would even one farmer commit suicide anywhere in the country?  Maharashtra till date has never had so many farmers’ suicide like we have had in the last three years.  This is the Government data that I am quoting. There have never been so many farmers’ suicide.  So, if the cultivation cost and the MSP is so high, why would any farmer kill himself or herself? I mean what is the logic of coming to this conclusion that all is well in the agriculture domain of the State.  So, it is probably an illusion. I do not think it is really the reality on the field. The other programme which is very good for the poor is health programme. We welcome it.  It is wonderful. If we can give universal healthcare to everybody, it is absolutely a welcome step.  But I have just a few concerns about it. The cess that has been added was originally the tax collections but now the Government has made it into a cess.  Now, the catch for a State is, when there is a cess, it only comes to the Central Government.  When it is tax, it is divided between the Centre and the State.  Now, what happens in the health programme? If you just calculate it, even if they collect the cess which will only be with the Central Government, none of our States are going to get this amount of Rs. 11,000 crore which will come. Sir, even if you do 60:40 or 50 :50, have they run it through the States? Had our States got the money?  My State is anyway debt-ridden.  Do they really have the resources to contribute to this health scheme?  That is my first question. Sir, they are talking about 10 lakh crore families, which is wonderful. We welcome it. It is Rs.5 lakh per family. Even if you take an account of ten per cent--forget anything else--which is just one crore family with Rs.1 lakh, the claim will be Rs.1 lakh crore as an insurance amount.  Even if the Central Government accounts the premium which they have not clarified as to who is paying how much as yet, let us say it is 50:50, then the Central Government will pay Rs. 25,000 crore which they will probably, through the various cesses, will recover. Where will my State get Rs. 25,000 crore or any other State will get Rs. 25,000 crore? That only makes it to Rs. 50,000 crore.  Now, if Rs. 1 lakh crore is the requirement and Rs. 50,000 crore is what the two Governments’ contribution, is the insurance company committed to paying the gap? If the insurance company has to pay Rs. 50,000 crore, the insurance company is going to be bankrupt. So, the way the banks have gone bankrupt like the hon. Prime Minister said today, the insurance companies also will go bankrupt. So, how will they sustain is my question. So, if the hon. Minister throws some light on it, we will have more clarity because we are a little disillusioned right now. We do support the health scheme but we want to know how it is going to be implemented. Various States have their schemes like the Telangana Member said about how they have implemented their health scheme. The West Bengal Government has done their scheme. Maharashtra has done their own. Kerala has done a good scheme. So, how are we going to club all these and how will we be making sure that this will be implemented? It is because according to the information we have, first, there is no blueprint for this scheme as yet. Second, do we really have the infrastructure? So, are we going to the Government hospitals and to the private players? So, who is going to take the ownership of all the private hospitals and make sure it runs flawlessly, honestly and transparently? So, how will you identify those hospitals? We do not want the money which is allotted for poor people to be misused by anybody.  So, I would ask this. There could be inflated bills. We have no idea. So, I think we really need to get a Bill for this health scheme, which has complete clarity because even for the infrastructure, there are several very good hospitals. But are we equipped enough in our country with this kind of support system that we need? My question to the hon. Government and to the Minister is this. Why is this Government only looking at disease management? Disease management is what they are looking at. Nothing in this entire Budget speech has talked about malnutrition. How do people get sick? The basic need is starting from malnutrition. So, if you are not addressing malnutrition issues, why are we only going into disease management? You are not looking at preventive measures at all. So, prevention is the best cure. So, why are we looking at disease management? So even if we do disease management, first we need more money for prevention and malnutrition. There are absolutely no numbers, and I hate to say this. But in the last 3-4 years since this Government has come, the social numbers for all these projects are highly low. The malnutrition numbers have gone up countrywide. There are sporadic States which have done exceptionally well because the States are doing well. So, what is the malnutrition or the food mission programme of this Government to eradicate malnutrition which is actually a national shame in this country? So, that is really what I would ask the hon. Minister to guide us on. Sir, I come from a farmer’s background. I do understand that eventually to have such programmes, you have to disinvest. But we come from very traditional Indian culture. Disinvestment is not something which is our first. Why does a woman save in gold in our family? It is because she knows when there is a rainy day, if somebody is ill in the family, if there is a wedding in the family, if somebody wants to study in some institute where you need money, that is when the woman of the house sells her jewellery or her assets for the betterment of the family. So, when there is disinvestment going on, what are we going to do with so much disinvestment? I understand if there is a drought, you disinvest. I understand that. If India is going through some crisis, we do understand that you need to disinvest. But if you keep disinvesting all your assets, when there is really a crisis, what is this Government going to do? So, does that mean they are absolutely selling the family silver which we only do when there is a crisis in our family? Nobody does that. This is good Indian traditional culture which we are proud of. So, I would ask the hon. Minister to clarify as to what is the need to sell all this. This is my question to him. The other thing which Karunakaran Ji also talked about was the FRDI Bill. Now you are encouraging people to come. I do realise that it is still in the Standing Committee. But the Government has thought of such a Bill. It is here at one level you are bringing people into the banking sector. If tomorrow there is a run on the bank or there is a panic situation, all you are going to get is a Rs.1 lakh guarantee. Why would any human being or a person who has worked very hard with pride, want to pay minimum? It has to be increased. So, I really urge the Government to re-think of this Bill. I urge the Standing Committee on Finance also to re-think of this because there is a panic amongst the people because they are unsure of what is going on. This Government likes to talk about 20:20. Good luck. May the best person win 20:20 and I think let us make the best team win, whichever team it is. But they talk about housing, water, Swachh Abhiyan. We are very happy. If India is going to be a clean country, why should we not rise? Eventually, all of us have to rise above politics. The nation comes first and then our differences. On such a background, if you have to look at basic things, water and housing, what is the data? If water has to be given to every household, today the cost is Rs.15 lakh core just for water. In respect of housing, the target is 1.5 crore. The total BPL housing requirement is 10 crore. We have achieved about 3 crore. This is all Government data that I am quoting. There is nothing out of my imagination. Out of these 7 crore, which is still left out, one and half is committed. So, 5.5 crore is all up in the air. If this money has to come, where is this money coming from? What is the roadmap? This almost sounds like a commitment which is an eyewash. The similar thing are even with Income Tax today. There are a lot of people who want to pay tax. They are happy to pay tax. The Government did demonization, for whatever the reasons are, but their own Economic Survey says that it was a bad idea and that is what really has created the slow down. This is all in the Economic Survey. How many people have joined the tax net? It is probably doubled, which is eight crore. It is a wonderful thing. But, how many are these four crore contributing? Whatever information we have, people that have come, are only contributing Rs.16 crore. So, after this whole rigmarole of exercise, if only Rs.16 crore is the number that has been added, was it really worth an exercise? Was it the only road to get there or were there other roads too to get there without disrupting the economy? We really want to ask what the hon. Minister’s and the Ministry’s thought is. Sir, I would like to bring to the notice a few other points which are really critical more so because I am a woman. I still remember when the present Government was in the Opposition. They used to say ‘बहुत हो गई महंगाई की मार, अब की बार मोदी सरकार’. It used to hurt me. My mother used to tell me that he was talking about price rise and he was right. महंगाई बहुत हो गई है आपकी सरकार में. If my own mother was saying in a house of a UPA constituent Member, I really did realize that this was a great line that they gave and the country bought it. But in the last four years – please put your hand on your heart, you may not know but your wife will definitely know – have really the expenses of any house gone down? The answer is ‘no’. Be it education, be it healthcare, be it your basic sabji mandi. I do not have to eat fancy food. बेसिक रोटी-सब्जी,दाल-चावल आप खाने जाओ,सबका बिल वहीं का वहीं है। शायद यह बढ़ भी गया है। यह बढ़ गया है। महंगाई सब जगह है। So, what is this – बहुत हो गई महंगाई की मार? This is absolutely something which is untrue and they have not been able to change it. It is the same thing whether it is petrol, diesel or gas cylinder. There is a wonderful scheme of gas cylinder. But you go to any woman anywhere and ask her what the price of a gas cylinder is. She will say आज बहुत महंगा हो गया है। And, this Government is not even giving kerosene anymore. वे कहते हैं कि तुम्हारे पास गैस सिलिंडर है, अभी तुम्हें केरोसीन नहीं मिलेगा। So, she does not know what to do because the cost of the basic cylinder is almost doubled. It is Rs.800. It is really a tragedy for a woman. They talked about Andhra Pradesh and 115 backward districts. …..(Interruptions) THE MINISTER OF RAILWAYS AND MINISTER OF COAL (SHRI PIYUSH GOYAL): Sir, I have a small submission to make. I think the hon. MP is misinformed. The cost of a gas cylinder is not Rs.800. It is subsidised and the subsidy is given through the Direct Benefit Transfer to the bank accounts of the LPG consumers. I think the hon. MP is making some mistake. If there is any case, the lady that you are referring to, we would love to know about the details. …(Interruptions) SHRIMATI SUPRIYA SULE : Sir, we all pay Rs.800….(Interruptions) SHRI PIYUSH GOYAL : The hon. MP is talking about a poor woman, who has been given the Ujjwala connection. She is talking about that. She may have given up the subsidy. I have given up this benefit and I think SupriyaSule ji, with all humility I can say, would have given it up also. I am sure those of us who have given it up, are helping to make the nation because of that. SHRIMATI SUPRIYA SULE :  I am not talking about that. But this is not about my cylinder. My children’s tuition teacher, who is a middle-class hard earning lady, has given it up. But she is getting pinched is a suggestion. I appreciate you that from the Ministry of Railways just step in and move around to know what the common man thinks. It is not necessary about subsidised cylinder. Talk to your child’s tuition teacher, talk to your driver, speak to all the people in your office, if you have one, and not just in the Mantralaya in Mumbai, you will understand the pain of the common man….(Interruptions) AN HON. MEMBER: Common man has understood Modi….(Interruptions) SHRIMATI SUPRIYA SULE : No, that is okay. He is a Mumbai boy, I have to be little generous and kind to him….(Interruptions) He is a Mumbai boy. So, Sir, these are all woman related issues. It is not just about me. I am not asking for anything. I do not deserve to ask for any subsidy. I always say that I do not deserve it. I have born with a golden spoon in my mouth. I am not asking it for myself. I have never asked anything for myself. I am asking for the people because I represent a constituency. I get elected because 18 lakh people vote for us and we come to this House. So, we have to voice it. I am not a voice of SupriyaSule. I am Baramati. I have a number which is 35. I do not stand here as my name, I stand here as my constituency number. Sir, given all this, I would say that everybody has talked about the Nirbhaya Fund. Nirbhaya Fund has been through a lot of challenges and a lot of numbers have been given here regarding the ASHA, the anganwadis etc.  I am glad that Shri Goyal is here. I think, luck is on my side today. I am lucked out today. We appreciate him for providing wi-fi at every station. Why can we not have woman toilets and put more of this Nirbhaya Fund into woman’s safety in the railways? We all women will be appreciative of him and history will remember him that the man who gave all women dignity on railway stations is Shri Goyal. So, we will be very proud of him even if he is sitting on that side. SHRI PIYUSH GOYAL : I have already ordered it for every station across the country. SHRIMATI SUPRIYA SULE : I want to see it. I am very happy. I want to use them all because we travel a lot by railways. When we go to Latur, Amravati and Nagpur, we do use the railways. So, I would request him to do all this at all the railway stations. CCTVs are also given and we are very happy about that, but a lot of times, the Railway Department asks us only to give MPLADS funds for CCTV. Why should we not use this Nirbhaya Fund for putting up all these facilities? The Government says that there is so much money. Why should they not use it for woman safety? They keep talking about Beti Bachao Beti Padhao. It is a wonderful thing. In the State I come from and Shri Goyal also comes from, 1314 schools of Marathi language are getting shut. Here, we are saying Beti Bachao Beti Padhao and it is absolutely a shame when 1314 Marathi schools are shut in Maharashtra today. I especially remember the Budget Speech where hon. Finance Minister talked about quality of education. I do take this opportunity to say that when such a rural issue is going on, MGNREGS is something really critical. The data tells that 56 per cent wages are delayed under MGNREGS. First of all, the problem is that there is an agrarian crisis. Maharashtra has been through it. Be it soyabean, be it cotton, be it tur, there is a huge problem of procurement. Moneys are not reaching the farmers on time. The alternate support system in the rural economy is MGNREGS. If those payments are delayed by 56 per cent, it takes a three turn-arounds by the time the man or the woman gets his or her money. How will he survive? It is not that only he suffers. His children’s fee does not get paid and medical issues also crop up. So, it is really the bottom of the pyramid which is surprising. Now, I come to the issue of differently abled people. This Government talks about the divyangs. We absolutely appreciate the projects. They are doing mega projects. We also had one in my constituency. So, I thank the Government for it. I would request them that the Swavalamban Health Insurance Scheme which was launched for these differently-abled in 2015 has not taken off completely. The new health scheme is coming which is launched while the Swavalamban Health Insurance Scheme has not been done. What is this Government going to do? The Rights of Persons with Disability Act in 2016 has increased the number of disabilities from seven to 21 which is a welcome step, but the budget allocation is only of Rs. 215 crore. When the number of disabilities have been increased, which is a very good vision, why should they not look at increasing the allocation? The same thing is there about MUDRA. Prof. Saugata Roy was also talking about it and I think, Shri Dubey corrected him by saying that MUDRA does not create jobs. Even if it is a business model, how much wealth has MUDRA created? If they have to start a business with Rs. 40,000, how is this going to work? Has anybody analysed MUDRA? It is a great scheme, but just because new EPFO registration is done, it does not mean that it is a new job. So, I would ask for some clarity on this from the Government that the private investments create jobs. If MUDRA is creating new entrepreneurs, we are happy, but to create jobs, you need good private investments. That is something we really need to look into. I would urge this Government to rethink on some of their policies, to all the commitments that they have made. I would request them by just saying one thing to the Government and with your permission, I would like to quote Voltaire again: 20 00 hrs 

SHRI VARAPRASAD RAO VELAGAPALLI : This is my last point. They are taking credit for ODF as already mentioned in 1,300 villages but it is extremely ineffective. It is very ineffective for the simple reason that the faecal management principle is not being followed. No toilet is being put into use for the purpose for which it has been created. So, I request that that should also be considered. The Government is going all the way to waive NPAs and all that, finding several ways to overcome them; but the farmers’ loans do not even come to one-fifth of that. It comes to about Rs. 3 lakh crore. If the Government of India thinks, let them help each and every small and marginal farmer by waiving the entire farm loans of the country. The Government will be remembered for ever and ever. Lastly, we again request the Government for special status category for Andhra Pradesh and to do justice to the people of Andhra Pradesh. Thank you very much for giving me this wonderful opportunity. *DR. A. SAMPATH ( ATTINGAL ):   I would like  to raise some serious objections and reservations on the General Budget speech made by the Hon. Finance Minister.  The result of globalization, liberalization and privatization are thorns and pains to the common people. The House of the People is the paramount body of speech and expression.  This is the paramount forum in this nation to express the voice of the people. But unfortunately, the space for expressing the views, voices, if it is of a different angle than that of the official version of the Government of India, gets diminished day by day.  I fell the signs of social-political-economic and cultural loss of a developing country. The Finance Minister does not tell how much of new currency notes were printed and put to circulation after 8th November, 2016.  He neither says about the amount black, I mean, the illegal money confiscated since demonetization.  It is only a shower of political slogans without any wholehearted willpower from the executive.  The powers and prerogatives of the legislature are being usurped by the executive, which is against the spirit of the Constitution. Why the General Insurance agents still denied of commission while the firms and companies get it?  Increasing the limit of  MSMEs to the tune of Rs.250 crore would help the joint stock companies and not the small scale industries.  The Budget did not address the issue of traditional sectors like handloom, coir, cashew, bamboo-mat weaving, potteries, fisheries etc.  We need a separate ministry of Fisheries. I would like to express my strong reservations on the tendency of the Government of India to by-pass the supremacy of the Parliament.  The role of the various departmentally related Standing Committees are being reduced to mere organs to look into the Demand for Grants, whose recommendations are not at all seriously considered by the Executive. The Finance Minister is trying to generate a set of numbers for projected revenues that are unlikely to be met.  Then they find it as an excuse for reducing certain expenditure below the allocated amounts.  The end result is that every succeeding year, the Parliamentary discussions on General Budget as well as discussions on the Demands for Grants for various Ministries become a futile exercise.  The centralized and secretive manner for the eventual spending below the budgeted amount is not at all a healthy practice for a developing nation like India. The budget has lost its sanctity, reliability and authenticity.  It has become distorted without any vision.  It is once again a blatant attack on the poor and the oppressed.  Why the NPAs are mounting up?  Who are the real culprits?  It is not the common people but the corporates and the affluent who are able to manage the affairs of the political system, and also to cleverly manipulate.  And again, they cry for privatization also.  What a paradox! Many of the Budget proposals are detrimental to the economic growth of states like Kerala.  Justice is not shown to the five million Indians working abroad and the millions of poor farmers, many of them in the path of committing suicide. His Budget Speech did not address the serious situations of this country,  the severe economic and social issues.  The sluggishness and consequent difficulties emerged in the lives of common people, especially in the unorganized and informal sector, after the demonetization of November 8th, the decreasing growth rate of investment, rising unemployment, problems faced by the agrarian population, deterioration of the law and order situation, serious concerns about the safety of women and children and caring of senior citizens and age old people were also not catered with.  The GST was implemented without proper and scientific homework. Concessions and incentives are to the corporates and the rich and affluent.  But whatever subsidies and other reliefs were there for common and poor people all those are being snatched away day by day.  Ruthless exploitation continues in the unorganized and informal sector.  The disparities of caste, creed, religion, genders etc. are still looming and not weakening. Economic disparities also grow alarmingly.  The top 1 per cent of the rich and affluent controls 13 per cent of the total assets of this nation.  But the Finance Minister still plays music for privatization of the PSUs. Why the Finance Minister was silent about any financial provision for the SAGY? He is also silent about the filling up of one million vacancies under various Government establishments, departments, Railways, armed forces, para-military PSUs and Banks and Insurance Sectors, etc.  Railways now head towards privatization while the experience in other countries shows us its ill effects and the social costs. If the MPLADs utilization should be meaningful it has to be increased from Rs.5 crore to Rs.20  crores at least. The General Budget Speech does not reveal the truth; the real picture is something different.  I strongly protest against the decision for not providing the statement of 'Revenue Forgone'.  Burden of indirect taxes has been increased.  Big announcement has been made but proper provision has not been made.  The proposal to garner 80,000 crores by disinvestment is like killing the golden goose.  I request the Government of India to withdraw the privatization of public sectors. There is no mention about the extension of the Natinal Inland Waterways in between Kollam and Kovalam in the state of Kerala.  The preservation of water sources should be of prime concern.  But the rain water harvesting and construction of new hydro-electric power projects do not find any place in this Budget. In his Budgetary Speech, he does not speak anything about any financial and technical encouragement of traditional industries such as handloom, potteries, bamboo, carpentry, coir, traditional ornament making, mat-weaving, fisheries, handicrafts etc. The constitutional norm of 'equal pay for equal work' was recently reminded by Supreme Court of 
 India  also.  But still it is a mirage to the working class.  Why he is not mentioning about minimum wage of 18,000/- per month? In the Budget Speech there is no mention about the reservation and protection of public lands and promotion of sports facilities at grass root level.  What about the protection and encouragement of various regional art forms and folk culture? This speech is silent on the regular employment and also universal basic income.  It should be constitutionally admitted that the 'pension is the right and not a privilege'.  Sufficient provision should be ensured for adequate facilities for the physically and psychologically disadvantaged people.  He is conspicuously silent on mental health as well as clinical psychology. Why the Finance Minister is silent about the sufficient financial technical and medical care for those who are in need of the palliative care treatment?  Our population is growing not only in quantum but also in life expectancy.  Even after the declaration of new AIIMS in various states, why the silence in the establishment of AIIMS in Kerala? The privatization is not the panacea for the problems.  Many of the PPPs has failed to deliver the results.  Our natural resources are being looted by large corporates.  The unholy nexus of big corporate- ruling political class and the bureaucrats is nothing else but a reality.  We cannot tolerate corruption and communalism.  "Corruption" should not be a side effect of the "developemnt".  Communalism is like a venom to the society while corruption is like cancer! We have to fight both tooth and nail. Why this Budget is still silent about the construction of a new National Highway in Kerala and a bypass in NH-47 at Attingal and also about Kottoor- Ambasamudram Highway to connect in between the capital cities of Kerala and Tamil Nadu States respectively? The declaration of Varkala Cliffs as Global Geological Heritage site need sufficient financial provision for their protection.  The grand old Cliffs at Varkala have a height of 30 metres and it is 20 million years old. This Budget has not shed even "crocodile tears" to the Okhi Cyclone victims.  Allocation for judiciary has to be increased to 1 per cent of the GNP.  The Finance Minister  tries in vain to paint a glossy picture as this is the last year of the 16th Lok Sabha and the nation is heading towards a general election within months. But at the grass root level I am sorry to say that it is not all that rosy. Why many details are hidden from Parliament?  Why Railways got only 3 minutes from 11:59 AM to 12:02 PM during Budget Speech?  The tradition of having a separate Railway Budget is no more.  Likewise State Bank of Travancore is also no more!  And the "Statement of Revenue Foregone" is also no more!. The Minister has neglected the sad plight of rice, sugarcane, coconut, cotton, cardamom and rubber cultivators.  The conversion of cultivable land to other purposes, the decreasing area of cultivable land of various corps and the high prices and unavailability of pulses have led to incurable problems in the primary sector.  There is urgent need to increase protein consumption of children and the pregnant women and hence for free provision of sufficient quota of pulses, cooking oil, sugar to the schools as well as anganwadies. The latest information regarding the number of stunted growth children and hence, wasted human lives are not only shocking but also to be ashamed off, by ourselves!  The PDS can be strengthened only by strengthening the activities of the Food Corporation of India. The Address is silent on international refugee's issues.  Also silent about the solving of Rohingyan Refugees' crisis and their rehabilitation.  It is not mentioning about the interstate migrant workers.  Why silent on the demand to increase the wages of unorganized sectors including the MNREGA? Are we ditching the principles of great Non-Aligned movement?  International tea ties and conventions should be discussed and put for assent from the Parliament.  Various stake holders should also be consulted.  The issues of the North Eastern states and Indian islands should be separately discussed.  The Parliament should be in session at least for a hundred days during a calendar year.  All Indian languages of this federation should be used instead of imposing any particular language.  This Budget has no allocation for promotion of Classical languages like Malayalam. We should start sending Indian Parliamentary delegations to various nations in order to strengthen the international friendship and also for bilateral parliamentary understanding. The President's Address as well as Union Budget is conspicuously silent about the growing menace of various signs of intolerance - communal religious, social and political.  The Government of India should provide insurance to the media persons and the whistle blowers. The law and order situation in the Delhi and  NCR has become shameful.  The slogan of "to serve and to protect" has become a joke among the people!  More funds should be provided for police reforms and prison reforms.  The principle of co-operative federalism does not trickle down.  The benefits of the record slash in the international crude oil prices have not been transferred to the working class and poor.  So the so-called "openness of a global economy" is only for the benefit of the rich and affluent. Hence I oppose the General Budget 2018-19. श्रीजय प्रकाश नारायणयादव ( बांका ): उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, आपने जनरल बजट पर बोलने की अनुमति दी है,इसके लिए मैं आपको बहुत-बहुत धन्यवाद देता हूं । आदरणीय वित्त मंत्री महोदय ने बजट को प्रस्तुत किया, देश के लोगों की बहुत बड़ी अपेक्षा और नजर इस बजट पर थी,क्योंकि इस सरकार का यह अंतिम बजट है,अब जनरल बजट सामने नहीं आएगा । जो पुराने वायदे और वचन थे, चार सालों का आईना इसमें झलकता लेकिन उसकी झलक इसमें नहीं आई । कबीरदास ने कहा था – 

कबीर दास की उल्टी वाणी, 

बरसे कंबल भीगे पानी। यही स्थिति सामने आई है । दो करोड़ लोगों,नौजवानों के लिए नौकरी की बात थी, नौकरी कहां है, नौकरी किस विभाग में है । नौकरी के लिए क्या इंतजाम हुआ,चार साल बीत गए। बेरोजगार नौजवान नौकरी मांगते हैं, लेकिन उसका कोई लेखा-जोखा नहीं है। देश के आवाम, नौजवान और किसान, सभी यह मान रहे हैं कि हमारे साथ छलावा हुआ है और धोखा हुआ है। बिहार को कहा गया कि स्पेशल राज्य का दर्जा देंगे और बिहार के मुख्यमंत्री ने कहा कि स्पेशल राज्य का दर्जा लेकर रहेंगे। अब वह दर्जा कहां हैं, उसका पता नहीं है। स्पेशल पैकेज देंगे,उसकी चर्चा कहीं नहीं है । स्व.चौधरी चरण सिंह जी कहा करते थे देश की समृद्धि का रास्ता खेत और खलिहान से हो कर गुजरता है, हम देश को उद्योग से समृद्ध नहीं कर सकते हैं । हम एग्रीकल्चर,खेती और सिंचाई से बड़ी आबादी को समृद्ध कर सकते हैं,लेकिन आज एग्रीकल्चर सैक्टर में निराशाजनक स्थिति है । आत्महत्याएं हो रही हैं,चार सालों में कितनी आत्महत्याएं हुई हैं, इसका लेखा-जोखा सरकार को देना चाहिए । महाराष्ट्र से लेकर दूसरे प्रदेशों में किसान आत्महत्या कर रहे हैं, लेकिन उनका कर्ज माफ नहीं हुआ, उनको बैंक से लोन नहीं मिला । लागत का डेढ़ गुना मूल्य देंगे, हम स्वामीनाथन की रिपोर्ट को मानते हैं, लागू करेंगे लेकिन स्वामीनाथन साहब की रिपोर्ट कहां हैं? इसलिए देश के सामने अच्छे दिनों की जो वचनबद्धता जाहिर की गई,हो सकता है कि भारतीय जनता पार्टी के साथ के लोगों के अच्छे दिन आ गए हों, लेकिन देश का भारी नुकसान हुआ है । देश का बुरा दिन आया है और आज स्थिति बद से बदतर है । प्रधान मंत्री ग्रामीण सड़क योजना में बद से बदतर हालत है। यहां से सैंक्शन होकर चीजें जाती हैं, लेकिन राज्यों में लटक जाती हैं । बिहार में हमारे बांका संसदीय क्षेत्र नाबार्ड से 22 पुल सैंक्शन हुए,लेकिन उनमें से 11पुलों का काम रुका हुआ है। विकास के काम को अच्छे दिनों के नाम से रोका जाता है । लोगों का आवागमन रोका जाता है। बिहार में मेगा प्रोजेक्ट लगाने की सरकार से चर्चा हुई,मंजूरी मिली, जमीन मिली, सर्वे हुआ, लेकिन 4 हजार मेगावाट का बिजली का प्रोजेक्ट बांका में शुरू नहीं हो रहा है । आपने कहा था कि जो जमीन को जोते बोये, वह जमीन का मालिक होए। आज स्थिति यह है कि वह अपना माथा पकड़ कर रोए वाली बात हो गई है । आप स्वच्छता की बात करते हैं, शौचालय की बात करते हैं । आप राज्यों से रिपोर्ट लें,ओडीएफ में बहुत भारी घपला हो रहा है। स्वच्छता के नाम पर ठगा जा रहा है । आपने कहा था कि महंगाई डायन है ।…(व्यवधान)आपने बात उठाई है,इसलिए मैं यह बात जरूर बोलूंगा। हो सकता है कि आपको तकलीफ हो, दर्द हो, परेशानी हो। आपने बात छेड़ दी है इसलिए यह किताब सामने रख रहा हूं। लालू प्रसाद यादव जी का यह संदेश है और इस किताब की एक लाइन पढ़कर सुना रहा हूं। उन्होंने लिखा है – जब तक सांस है चलूंगा,लड़ूंगा,जीतूंगा और रोशन करने के लिए बिहार को स्वयं जलूंगा।…(व्यवधान)आप आज हंस सकते हैं। ईसा भी चढ़ गए सूली पर, क्योंकि सच्चे लोगों ने जान गवाई है । गरीब का बेटा कर्पूरी ठाकुर का अपमान हो सकता है,बाबा साहब भीम राव अम्बेडकर के सम्मान में कमी हो सकती है,जिस सामाजिक न्याय के लिए, साम्प्रदायिक एकता के लिए,भाईचारे के लिए माननीय लालू प्रसाद यादव जी लड़ते रहे,वह इतिहास चाहे आज लिखा जाए या कल लिखा जाए, इतिहास इस बात की गवाही देगा । अगर इस काम के लिए किसी ने शक्ति दी है तो वह लालू प्रसाद यादव जी ने दी है । उन्होंने किसी को दबाया नहीं है, किसी को बरगलाया नहीं है। लालू जी ने कहा अगर इस देश में, बिहार में किसी पर अन्याय होगा, तो लालू यादव मरना पसंद करेगा,लेकिन दबना पसंद नहीं करेगा । आपने मुझे छेड़ दिया इसलिए मुझे इन बातों को कहना पड़ा । महोदय,बेटी बचाओ, बेटी पढ़ाओ की बात करते हैं । आज बेटियों की हालत हत्या,लूट बलात्कार के कारण बद से बदतर है । सब जन हिताय की बात करते हैं,सबके साथ की बात करते हैं, गरीबी उन्मूलन की बात करते हैं, जन-धन योजना की बात करते हैं, हुनरमंद भारत की बात करते हैं, काले धन को लाने की बात करते हैं, लेकिन धरती पर कुछ नहीं हो रहा है। आपने कहा कि स्विस बैंक से पैसा आएगा । अब कहते हैं कि स्विस बैंक का स्विच ही ऑफ हो गया है, वह स्विच ऑन नहीं हो रहा है । नमामि गंगे योजना की वही हालत है । महंगाई की वही हालत है । हालात पहले से खराब ही हुए हैं । पिछड़ों, दलितों,आदिवासियों,अक्लियतों का जैसा सम्मान होना चाहिए,संविधान ने उन्हें जो हक दिया है, उनका वह हक छीना जा रहा है। मंडल कमीशन पर ग्रहण लग रहा है और आयोग के नाम पर ओबीसी, दलित,पिछड़े और आदिवासियों को परेशानी में डालने का काम किया जा रहा है । आज स्थिति बहुत नाजुक हो गई है। हम डाक्टर लोहिया जी को मानने वाले हैं, बाबा साहब को मानने वाले हैं,  लोकनायक जय प्रकाश जी को मानने वाले हैं, जननायक कर्पूरी ठाकुर जी, पेरीयार और चरण सिंह जी को मानने वाले हैं । महोदय,मैं अंत में कहना चाहता हूं कि विघ्न अनेक हैं अभी इस पथ पर पड़े हुए, आरक्षण की राह भी रोकी जाती है । हम इन सारे गरीबों की हक की लड़ाई लड़ेंगे। देश की समृद्धि के लिए और बिहार के लिए बजट में जो आईना होना चाहिए था, वह नहीं है । माननीय वित्त मंत्री जी विद्वान हैं । उनसे बहुत अपेक्षाएं भी हैं । इन्हीं बातों के साथ मैं अपनी बात को विराम देता हूं । डॉ.किरीटसोमैया ( मुंबईउत्तर पूर्व ) : माननीय उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, 15 अगस्त, 1947 को देश आज़ाद हुआ था। मैं गिन रहा था 70 साल,यानी लगभग 25 हजार दिन और इन 25हजार दिनों में से 55 साल सिर्फ एक ही पार्टी,कांग्रेस पार्टी की सरकार थी। उसमें से 40 वर्ष सिर्फ एक परिवार प्रधानमंत्री पद पर था ।…(व्यवधान) 40 वर्ष केवल गांधी-नेहरू परिवार से प्रधानमंत्री रहे । इन गांधी जी का हमारे महात्मा गांधी जी से कोई संबंध नहीं है। दस वर्ष माननीय खड़गे जी मंत्री थे और उनको पता है कि प्रधानमंत्री कौन था? क्या प्रधानमंत्री रिमोट कंट्रोल के थे? 55 साल में से 50 साल केवल एक परिवार हिन्दुस्तान पर डायरेक्टली या इनडायरेक्टली राज कर रहा था । …(व्यवधान) महोदय,मैं केवल इतना कहना चाहता था कि कांग्रेस पार्टी हो,अभी-अभी सुप्रिया सुले ताई का भी भाषण हुआ, उन्होंने अपना दुख, व्यथा और कथा सुनायी,लेकिन वह भी वहीं से आयी हैं। वे भी उनके साथ ही थे और उनके पक्ष में थे। आपने जो दुख की कहानियां यहां बतायी हैं। अपनी माता जी की महंगाई की बात बतायी, अपनी स्कूल टीचर की बात बतायी,वीरप्पा मोइली जी से लेकर हमारे दादा ने कहा, लेकिन 70 साल में से 55 साल ये थे और पांच साल इन्हीं से संबंधित थे। हमारे वित्त मंत्री जी को एक हजार दिन हुए हैं । आज 70 साल बाद भी हम शौचालय की बात कर रहे हैं और उसकी शिकायत कर रहे हैं । इस पर मुझे दुख हो रहा था,हंसना या रोना समझ नहीं पा रहा था। 70 साल में से 50 साल जिन्होंने राज किया, वे गरीब को शौचालय नहीं दे पाए और आज हम पर अंगुली उठा रहे हैं । आपने 24 हजार दिनों में क्या किया?न शौचालय दिया,न किसान को उसका हक दिया। आज आप एमएसपी की बात कर रहे हैं तो आपने 24 हजार दिन क्या किया? मैं फिर भी उनको धन्यवाद देना चाहूंगा,क्योंकि कम से कम एक हजार दिन के बाद भी वे हम से अपेक्षा कर रहे हैं कि आप कीजिए क्योंकि हम नहीं कर पाए हैं । अभी हमारे एक मित्र अपना भाषण देकर गए हैं । उन्होंने जिनको कोट किया, वह जेल के अंदर और बाहर चक्कर लगा रहे हैं । आज ये हिन्दुस्तान के सवा सौ करोड़ लोगों को कह रहे हैं । ये कहते हैं कि इसका अनुकरण करो । 24 हजार दिन घोटालों की सरकार, 12 लाख करोड़ रुपये के घोटाले 10साल में हुए हैं । हमें उन 12 लाख करोड़ रुपयों का भी हिसाब दें । अगर वे हिसाब दे देंगे कि कौन से बैंक, स्विस बैंक या कौन से लॉकर में 12लाख करोड़ रुपये रखे हैं तो अरुण जेटली जी लाकर सबको बांट देंगे। उन 12 लाख करोड़ रुपये का भी तो हिसाब दें । आज विपक्ष की हालत यह है कि पांच मुख्य मंत्री जेल में या जेल के दरवाजे पर खड़े हैं । उसमें से एक हरियाणा,दो बिहार, एक झारखण्ड के और हमारे महाराष्ट्र के पूर्व मुख्य मंत्री तो लगभग पौने दो साल से जेल में बंद पड़े हैं। यह घोटालों की सरकार और घोटालों के नेताओं की सरकार महंगाई की बात कर रही है। आपकी सरकार के समय कृषि मंत्री कौन थे,जिनका उदाहरण व दृष्टांत दिया जाता है किसानों के नेता, किसानों के मसीहा, उन्होंने उस समय किसानों को क्या दिया?उनके समय कितनी आत्महत्याएं हुई, फूड इनफ्लेशन क्या था, जो स्वयं को किसान का नेता कहलाते हैं और बेस्ट कृषि मंत्री कहलाते हैं। 20 परसेंट फूड इनफ्लेशन,रोज दाम बढ़ते थे,रोटी के दाम बढ़ते थे। रोटी की बात कर रहे थे, दाल और रोटी लोगों के नसीब में नहीं थी। ये आंकड़ें मेरे नहीं हैं,ये आंकड़े उनकी सरकार के हैं । आज किसकी सरकार है, आज क्या माहौल है?आज लोग बोलते हैं,हम नहीं बोलते हैं । गरीबों के सम्मान में, नरेन्द्र मोदी जी मैदान में । यह बजट क्या है? इस बजट का यदि सारांश कहना हो, गरीबों के सम्मान में मोदी जी मैदान में । किसानों के सम्मान में,मोदी जी मैदान में । अरुण जेटली जी का बजट 1.5 टाइम है। यही कहा है कि किसानों को 1.5 टाइम देंगे,जो इन्होंने नहीं किया। यह बजट क्या है? गरीब महिलाओं के सम्मान में, मोदी जी मैदान में । 67 साल आपकी सरकार थी, आपने कितने गरीबों को गैस-चूल्हा दिया? अब देश का सिलेंडर चार सौ रुपये का है या साढ़े तीन सौ रुपये का है,पौने चार सौ रुपये का है या 377 रुपये देने पड़ रहे हैं,उसकी बात कर रहे हैं। उन आठ करोड़ महिलाओं के पास गैस-सिलेंडर तो नहीं है,यह कबूल करो। क्या गरीबी हटाओ सिर्फ एक नारा ही था?गरीबी हटाओ सिर्फ बातें ही थीं। कितने गरीबों को गैस-चूल्हा दिया, कितने गरीबों को चूल्हे से निकलने वाले धुएं से मुक्त किया? माननीय उपाध्यक्ष महोदय,सीनियर सिटीजन के मैदान में, बजट कहता है कि सीनियर सिटीजन के सम्मान में, मोदी जी मैदान में । मजदूरों के सम्मान में, मोदी जी मैदान में। यंग इंटरप्रेन्योर्स के सम्मान में,मोदी जी मैदान में । ग्रामीण क्षेत्र के सम्मान में,मोदी जी मैदान में । स्वच्छ भारत व मजबूत भारत के सम्मान में,मोदी जी भारत में। स्वस्थ भारत के सम्मान में, मोदी जी मैदान में। मैं यह सब बताने वाला हूं । मैं विपक्ष के नेता का मैं भाषण सुन रहा था। I was confused that a senior Minister of the Congress Government on one side saysहमारी पार्टी गरीबों की पार्टी है। एक तरफ यह पार्टी,उसके ऊपर भी मैं आने वाला हूं कि मार्केटिंग किसे कहते हैं। मार्केटिंग को इनसे सीखना चाहिए कि कितने साल से गरीबी हटाओ का नारा दिया जा रहा है, कितने वर्ष से यह नारा दिया जा रहा है। First time it was introduced in 1971. मैं गूगल में सर्च-रिसर्च देख रहा था और लाइब्रेरी में जाकर थोड़े पेपर्स देखे तो ऐसा कि गरीबी हटाओ। एक ही पार्टी,उनका एक ही परिवार और उसकी इतनी पीढ़ियां । यानी दादी मां जी ने भी गरीबी हटाओ का नारा दिया,पिता जी ने भी गरीबी हटाओ का नारा दिया और अब पुत्र भी गरीबी हटाओ की बात कर रहे हैं,वाह,वाह,वाह… 

महोदय,इनसे बढ़िया मार्केटिंग तो कोई कर ही नहीं सकता है। अरे भई,सन् 1971 से ले कर सन् 2014 तक आप सत्ता में थे, कभी रिमोर्ट तो कभी प्रत्यक्ष थे,आपकी तीन-तीन पीढ़ियां निकल गईं और उसके बाद भी आपने एक भी गरीब महिला को गैस का चूल्हा नहीं दिया । तो क्या आपकी गरीबी हटाओ सिर्फ मार्केटिंग के लिए ही है । आप हम पर मार्केटिंग का आरोप लगा रहे हो। उस मार्केटिंग पर मैं और भी आगे आना वाला हॅूं । लेकिन मुझे समझ में नहीं आ रहा है, हमारे खड़गे साहब यहां बैठे हुए हैं,उनके सीनियर कलीग कहते हैं ‍यह मोदी जी का बजट है। अरुण जेटली जी, कैपिटल गेन का क्या हुआ?आप तो कल तक हम पर आरोप लगाते थे कि आप शेयर बाज़ार वाले क्यों हो, आप इण्डस्ट्रियलिस्ट क्यों हो, आप अडानी और अंबानी की चिंता करते हो । आज आप किसकी चिंता कर रहे हो?पूरा बजट भाषण वापस पढ़ लो, आप अपना पूरा भाषण वापस पढ़ लो,पूरे भाषण में कांग्रेस पार्टी ने पूछा कि कैपिटल गेन का क्या होगा?शेयर बाज़ार गिर गया है, एक हज़ार पॉइंट गिर गया है और उसके कारण यह कैपिटल गेन का नुकसान किसका हुआ है? वित्त मंत्री जी ने अपने बजट भाषण में बहुत स्पष्ट बताया है ‍कि किसका नुकसान हुआ है । Capital gains amounting to Rs. 3,77,000 crore which was disclosed in the last year belong to hardly 100 or 200 corporates or a few couple of 100 HNIs. हिंदुस्तान की जनता 125 करोड़ है। उसका एक प्रतिशत लो तो एक करोड़ पच्चीस लाख होता है। और उसका 0.0001 पर्सेंट लेते हो तो लाख-दो लाख होते हैं। यह कांग्रेस की नीति है? भई यह जो कैपिटल गेन टैक्स लगाया या हटाया है, या दस पर्सेंट लगाया है, उस पर वित्त मंत्री जी ने बहुत स्पष्ट कहा है कि यहां से जो भी पैसा मिलेगा वह मैं कहाँ लगाने वाला हॅूं – वह मैं स्वस्थ भारत के लिए लगाने वाला हॅूं। जो दस करोड़ गरीब परिवार हैं, उनमें से आधे तो गरीबी रेखा से नीचे वाले हैं, जो वरष्ठि नागरिक हैं, उनको पांच लाख रुपये तक का मैडिकल इंश्योरेंस मैं देने वाला हॅूं तो मैं कांग्रेस पार्टी से पूछना चाहता हॅूं ‍कि ये दस करोड़ परिवार, 50 करोड़ लोग एक ओर हैं और एक ओर ये एक लाख कॉर्पोरेट्स हैं, एचएनआई हैं – हाई नैट इंडिविजुअल्स हैं, तो क्या कांग्रेस उन एचएनआई को फेवर करना चाहती है?हमारे सौगत रॉय साहब लैफ्टिज्म की बात करते हैं और वे भी कैपिटल गेन पर इसी प्रकार की बात कर रहे थे । मैं पुन :एक बार कहना चाहूंगा कि मैं अरुण जेटली जी और माननीय प्रधान मंत्री नरेंद्र मोदी जी को न सिर्फ धन्यवाद देता हॅूं,लेकिन आज हिंदुस्तान की जो 50 करोड़ जनता है, आपने आयुष्यमान भारत योजना बनाई । वो 70 साल की वृद्ध महिला, वह 80 साल का वृद्ध दोनों हाथ ऊपर कर के नरेंद्र मोदी जी और अरुण जेटली जी को कहते हैं कि आयुष्यमान हो । आपने आयुष्यमान भारत की बात कही और इसलिए इन्होंने कहा कि जुग-जुग जीओ । सर, आज जब अस्पताल का बिल आता है,जब 74 साल के वृद्ध को अटैक आता है तो वह अस्पताल में जाता है। वहां जाने के बाद डॉक्टर इलाज कर के कहता है कि बाय-पास हो गया, अब कोई चिंता की बात नहीं है, 15 साल तुम्हे कोई टेंशन लेने की जरूरत नहीं है। थोड़ी देर बाद जब उस अस्पताल का बिल आता है कि आठ लाख अस्सी हज़ार रुपये भरने पड़ेंगे तो उसको तुरंत ही दूसरा अटैक पड़ जाता है । अगर मेरी सरकार,अगर भारत की सरकार इनके उस बिल की चिंता करना चाहती है तो वे जो एक लाख हाई नैट इंडीविजुअल्स हैं, एक लाख कंपनियां हैं,उनके पास से अगर 30 हज़ार करेाड़ रुपये निकाल कर इन 50 करोड़ लोगों को देने हैं तो मैं एक बार नहीं बल्कि दस बार अरुण जेटली जी को धन्यवाद दूंगा, नरेंद्र मोदी जी को धन्यवाद दूंगा । हमारे विपक्ष के नेता पैसे की चिन्ता करते हैं । आप लोगों ने दस साल देश को लूटा, तब यह चिन्ता कहाँ गई थी? दस साल में आपने क्या-क्या किया? हमारे वित्त मंत्री,हमारे नेता ने पकौड़े वाले का उदाहरण दिया, तो आपके दी बेस्ट वित्त मंत्री ने कहा कि वह पकौड़े वाला, बेकार,आपका कोई नेता कहता है चाय वाला,कोई चाय वाले की बात करता है, कोई पकौड़े वाले की बात कर रहा है । अरे गरीबी क्या चीज है, वह गरीबी जो है ना,आपके नेता गरीबी को देखने का एक इवेंट बनाते हैं । दी लंच इवेंट,दी डिनर इवेंट,इस प्रकार के लंच और डिनर इवेंट से गरीबी का अहसास नहीं होगा,हमारे प्रधान मंत्री नरेन्द्र मोदी जी ने चाय बेचकर गरीबी का अहसास किया है। मैं आपको कह सकता हूँ,मुझे पता है कि शौचालय क्या है और उसकी व्यथा क्या है?…(व्यवधान) महोदय,हमने कहा था कि गरीबी क्या चीज होती है, वह मैं आपको बताता हूँ।…(व्यवधान)एक कवि ने कहा है कि जिन्होंने देखी नहीं कभी गरीबी ।…(व्यवधान)मल्लिकार्जुन खड़गे जी, जब वीरप्पा मोइली जी कैपिटलिस्ट का फेवर करते थे,तब आप खड़े हो जाते तो मैं आपका समर्थन करता ।…(व्यवधान)जिन्होंने देखी नहीं कभी गरीबी, क्या रहेगी उनकी दर्द से करीबी, हमदर्दी के बयान देकर तालियाँ बटोर लें, यह अलग बात है,प्रचार सुख में गुजरता उनका दिन, बहलती रात है । गरीबी का पता, गरीबी का दुख और दर्द हमारे प्रधान मंत्री जानते हैं।…(व्यवधान) मैंने शौचालय की बात कही ।…(व्यवधान)मैं यह कह रहा था कि शौचालय की क्या व्यथा है, यह मैं जानता हूँ,क्योंकि मैं उस गरीबी में बड़ा हुआ हूँ । जब मैं स्कूल में जाता था, मुम्बई,बांद्रा में बाजारा रोड में मेरा जन्म हुआ, हमारी चाली में संडास टूटे हुए रहते थे। जब हमें जाना पड़ता था, वह दरवाजा टूटा हुआ था, ऐसे अखबार पकड़कर बैठना पड़ता था । जब प्रधान मंत्री जी पाँच करोड़ शौचालय,छ:करोड़ शौचालयों की बात करते हैं, तब वह व्यथा हम समझ पाते हैं। उसे आप लोग नहीं समझोगे । 67 वर्ष आपन सिर्फ गरीबी के नाम पर गरीबों का मजाक किया । आप हमें कहते हो कि यह बजट किसका है, इस बजट का किसी ने नाम दिया, किसी अखबार के एडिटर ने कहा कि मेरा गाँव, मेरा देश । किसी ने कहा कि अरूण जेटली जी का जो यह बजट है, वह गाँव,गरीब और किसान का ध्यान रखता है । किसी ने कहा समृद्ध किसान-सेहतमंद हिन्दुस्तान । हर सिर पर छत,हर घर को मिलेगी बिजली । किसी ने कहा यंग इंडिया । किसी ने कहा एफ.एम.प्रेस्क्राइब्स मोदी केयर फॉर भारत । फाइनेंस मिनिस्टर अरूण जेटली जी ने,अभी अरूण जेटली और अर्जुन जेटली कोई बहुत फर्क नहीं हैं, क्योंकि उनका भी लक्ष्य बहुत स्पष्ट है । गरीबों का भला करना, यह नरेन्द्र मोदी सरकार का लक्ष्य है । इस बजट में अर्जुन के लक्ष्य जैसा सिर्फ गरीब, गरीब,गरीब है । In newspapers, it is said `ModiCare - the world’s largest scheme’, `Budget : gain the senior citizen’, ‘मजबूत बन रहा भारत’, ‘बनेगा नए भारत का आधार’, ‘मेरा गांव,मेरा देश ।’ 

HON. DEPUTY SPEAKER:  Hon. Member, now it is 8:30 PM. THE MINISTER OF STATE IN THE MINISTRY OF PARLIAMENTARY AFFAIRS AND MINISTER OF STATE IN THE MINISTRY OF WATER RESOURCES, RIVER DEVELOPMENT AND GANGA REJUVENATION (SHRI ARJUN RAM MEGHWAL): We can extend the House by half an hour. SHRI MALLIKARJUN KHARGE ( GULBARGA ): No Sir, it is not good.  They have got the relievers.  They can go and come back.  …(Interruptions) THE MINISTER OF CHEMICALS AND FERTILIZERS AND MINISTER OF PARLIAMENTARY AFFAIRS (SHRI ANANTHKUMAR):  Sir, let him complete the speech. HON. DEPUTY SPEAKER: Okay. After Mr. Somaiya finishes his speech, there is one more speaker, Shri Ramachandran.  After he concludes, we will adjourn the House. डॉ.किरीट सोमैया : मैं इनकी योजना के बारे में बताना चाहूंगा । इनकी योजनाएं क्या होती थीं? ऐसा है कि ‘लक्स’साबुन की एडवर्टीजमेंट आती है न ! उसे जाने दीजिए,वह मैं बाद में बताता हूं । इनकी स्ट्रैटजी क्या है? परिवार की स्ट्रैटजी है ।…(व्यवधान)यहां भी देखो, वहां भी देखो । इधर भी देखो, उधर भी देखो, आपको सब जगह एक ही चीज दिखाई देगी। गांव से लेकर शहर तक,मार्केट से लेकर मॉल्स तक, आप हिन्दुस्तान में कहीं पर भी चले जाएं, 16,700 स्कीम्स का नाम क्या है?श्रीमती इन्दिरा गांधी,स्वर्गीय जवाहर लाल नेहरू या श्री राजीव गांधी या फिर संजय गांधी, इन्हीं के नाम पर स्कीम्स हैं । किसी ने आर.टी.आई.के तहत सूचना निकाली थी, उसमें यह कहा गया है । केन्द्र सरकार की कुछ दो दर्जन स्कीम्स हैं,उन 48 स्कीम्स में राजीव गांधी विद्युतीकरण योजना, राजीव गांधी पेयजल योजना,राजीव गांधी उद्यमी मित्र योजना, इन्दिरा आवास योजना,इन्दिरा गांधी नेशनल ओल्ड एज पेंशन, जवाहर लाल नेहरू अर्बन रिन्यूअल,जवाहर लाल नेहरू रोजगार योजना, राजीव गांधी श्रमिक कल्याण योजना, इन्दिरा गांधी कैनाल प्रोजेक्ट,ऐसी कितनी योजनाएं हैं । जब हमने उसकी डिटेल निकाली तो ये नाम सर्वव्यापी हैं। आपको और कोई नहीं मिला । अब इन्होंने समरी दी कि केन्द्र सरकार की 48स्कीम्स में से 16 स्कीम्स राजीव गांधी के नाम से है । मोइली जी यहां होते तो मैं उन्हें बताता। वे सरदार वल्लभ भाई पटेल का नाम ले रहे थे। वे कह रहे थे कि नरेन्द्र मोदी, प्रधान मंत्री should give an explanation. पहले आप बताइए कि आपने कितनी स्कीम्स को महात्मा गांधी के नाम पर रखा?महात्मा गांधी जी के नाम पर कांग्रेस सरकार ने 55 सालों में केवल चार स्कीम्स बनाई हैं और सरदार वल्लभ भाई पटेल जी के नाम पर सिर्फ एक ही योजना बनाई गई । इनका काम क्या है? मार्केटिंग इसको ही कहते हैं कि सभी जगह यह बताओ कि पूरे देश में जो भी होता है,वह सिर्फ एक परिवार करता है । जन्म से लेकर मृत्यु तक यही है। प्रसूति गृह में भी यह है,मतलब बच्चा जब जन्म लेता है, उसके पहले ही वह अपनी माता के साथ जाता है। वह कहां जाता है? राजीव गांधी अस्पताल,यानी जन्म से मृत्यु तक सिर्फ गांधी-नेहरू परिवार है । क्या यह मजाक है और आप हमारे ऊपर आरोप लगाते हैं कि आप स्कीम बदलते हैं । यहां हमारे कैबिनेट मंत्री बैठे हुए हैं । उनके ऊपर आरोप लगाते हैं कि आप स्कीम्स का नाम बदलते हैं । पर, आपने तो बदलने के लिए कोई स्कोप ही नहीं रखा है। उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, मैं एक अन्य बात कहना चाहूँगा कि हमारी सरकार जो ‘मोदी केयर’ योजना लायी है, उसके बारे में विपक्ष ने चिंता व्यक्त की है । They said: ‘ How  are you going to implement it?’ 

यह अच्छी बात है । हमारे वित्त मंत्री जी इसके बारे में अधिक डीटेल में बताएंगे । अगर हम पाँच लाख रुपये की मेडिकल इंश्योरेंस की व्यवस्था करते हैं तो आप उससे सहमत हैं न,क्या इतने वर्षों से केंद्र सरकार ने पाँच लाख रुपये के बदले में पचास हजार रुपये की व्यवस्था की है?हमारे लोक सभा के सभी सदस्यों के पास प्रतिदिन दो-तीन लोग जरूर आते हैं । हमारे पास जितने भी लोग आते हैं, we act on it. Hon. Deputy-Speaker, Sir, you must also be receiving representations from several people coming to meet you. I also receive many representations and people come to me saying that ‘this is the hospital bill and we need some support.’  We write letters for grant of assistance from   the Prime Minister’s Relief Fund; we write similarly for assistance from the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund.  We also approach various charitable trusts. अगर हर वक्त उसके पास दो-दो या चार-चार महीने ट्रस्ट के चेक आते हैं,डोनेशन के चेक आते हैं,उसके लिए इंतजार करना पड़ता है। कोई बेटा अपनी माँ के लिए इतने धक्के खाता है, कोई बेटी अपने बाप के लिए इतने धक्के खाती है और उस समय श्री नरेन्द्र मोदी जी कहते हैं कि भारत सरकार प्रत्येक वृद्ध माँ-बाप का ध्यान रखेगी,पाँच लाख रुपये तक का इलाज मैं करूँगा,इसके लिए हमें उन्हें धन्यवाद देना चाहिए और ‘आयुष्मान भव’ कहना चाहिए । हमारे मंत्री जी ने भी अपनी प्रेस कॉफ्रेंस में इसके बारे में कहा और बाकी लोगों ने भी कहा  that this is not just one scheme. हम पूरा परिवर्तन लाएंगे,हेल्थ केयर इंडस्ट्री में चमत्कार होगा । अगर इतने कंज्यूमर खड़े हो जाएंगे,पेशंट आ जा जाएंगे तो हम उनका उपचार करेंगे, इतना हेल्थ इंफ्रास्ट्रक्चर खड़ा करेंगे। पचास हजार से पाँच लाख लोगों को रोजगार मिलेगा, इतनी नर्स लगेंगी,डॉक्टर्स लगेंगे, वार्ड ब्वाय लगेंगे,इसलिए वास्तव में हमें जिस योजना का समर्थन करना चाहिए,धन्यवाद देना चाहिए,लेकिन अब ऐसा है कि उनके पास भी जो मतदाता आएंगे, वे भी इस स्कीम के लिए कल से चेक देखते जाएंगे । महोदय,मैं यहाँ एक-दो अन्य चीज भी बताना चाहूँगा, like “What is today’s India”. The India Brand Equity Foundation has stated what India is today. It is not said by Kirit Somaiya. It has been stated by India Brand Equity Foundation. They said: किसानों को उनकी फसल की लागत का डेढ़ गुना न्यूनतम समर्थन मूल्य मिलेगा जिससे किसानों की आय में बढ़ोत्तरी होगी । स्मार्ट सिटी के लिए 99 शहर चुने गए हैं । 100 स्मारकों को आदर्श बनाया जाएगा। धार्मिक पर्यटन शहरों के लिए हेरिटेज योजना बनाई जाएगी । प्री नर्सरी से 12वी तक की शिक्षा देने पर जोर दिया जाएगा । डिजिटल पढ़ाई को बढ़ावा देने पर भी जोर रहेगा। बच्चों को स्कूल तक पहुंचाना बड़ा लक्ष्य है। आदिवासियों के लिए एकलव्य विद्यालय बनाए जाएंगे । स्कूलों में ब्लैकबोर्ड की जगह डिजिटल बोर्ड लगाए जाएंगे । व्यापार शुरू करने के लिए मुद्रा योजना के लिए 3 लाख करोड़ रुपए का फंड और छोटे उद्योगों के लिए 3,794 करोड़ रुपए खर्च होंगे । हेल्थ वेलनेस केंद्र बनाने पर 1,200 करोड़ का फंड खर्च किया जाएगा । 24 नए मेडिकल कॉलेज खोले जाएंगे । 2022 तक हर गरीब को घर देने का एलान किया गया है, 

देश में 2 करोड़ शौचालय और बनाए जाएंगे । सभी फसलों का समर्थन मूल्य मिलेगा अभी कुछ ही फसलों का मिलता है । 4 करोड़ घरों में सौभाग्य बिजली योजना से कनेक्शन दिया जाएगा । खरीफ की फसल का समर्थन मूल्य उत्पादन की लागत से डेढ़ गुना है । आलू, प्याज, टमाटर के लिए ऑपरेशन ग्रीन । आलू, प्याज और टमाटर के लिए 500 करोड़ रुपए मिलेंगे । किसान क्रेडिट कार्ड पशु पालकों को भी मिलेगा । 42 मेगा फूड पार्क बनाए जाएंगे । वरिष्ठ नागरिकों को जमा राशि पर मिलने वाले ब्याज आय में 50 हजार रुपए तक की छूट दी जाएगी । देश में हवाई चप्पल वाले भी हवाई जहाज की यात्रा कर सकेंगे। 'उड़ान योजना' के तहत देशभर में 56 हवाई अड्डों और 31 हैलीपैडों में कनेक्टिविटी सुविधा की घोषणा की गई । रक्षा बजट 2.95 लाख करोड़ रुपये का होगा । सरकार ने किसानों को लागत का डेढ़ फीसदी न्यूनतम समर्थन मूल्य देने को लेकर प्रतिबद्धता दिखाई है । इस बात में कहीं दो मत नहीं कि इस बार बजट में सरकार कृषि क्षेत्र में आय बढ़ाने को लेकर ज्यादा फिक्रमंद दिखी है । 22 हजार हाट कृषि बाजार में बदले जाने की बात बजट में तो कही ही गई है । साथ ही खाद्य प्रसंस्करण के लिए 1,400 करोड़ रुपये सरकार देने जा रही है। कृषि उपज के लिए जिला स्तर पर औद्योगिक कलस्टर जैसा सिस्टम बनाने और ऑपरेशन फ्लड की तर्ज पर आलू और टमाटर के दामों में उतार-चढ़ाव के नुकसान को रोकने के लिए खास इंतजाम की बात अहम है । सरकार ने मत्स्यपालन और पशुपालन पर भी ध्यान दिया है । जहां मत्स्यपालन को बढ़ावा देने के लिए विशेष कोष बनेगा, वहीं वित्त मंत्री जी ने पशुपालकों को भी किसान क्रेडिट कार्ड देने की बात कही है । सरकार ने एक तरफ जहां सुधार की धार तेज कर विनिवेश के दरवाजे को खोलकर और बढ़ाया, वहीं बीमा कंपनियों के आपसी विलय को हरी झंडी देकर इस दिशा में वह और आगे बढ़ी । स्वास्थ्य,शिक्षा से लेकर गांव और गरीब तक वित्त मंत्री की पोटली में सबके लिए इस बार कुछ न कुछ था । यह हमारी सरकार के पिछले चार सालों में उठाए गए कदमों का ही परिणाम है कि हम दुनियां की पांचवीं सबसे बड़ी अर्थव्यवस्था बनने जा रहे हैं । अर्थव्यवस्था पटरी पर है । हमारी 2.5 ट्रिलियन की अर्थव्यवस्था है । हमारी सरकार का फोकस गांव के विकास पर है तथा हमारी सरकार ने पारदर्शी शासन दिया है । सर्विस सेक्टर में 8 फीसदी की दर से तरक्की हो रही है । अधिकांश सरकारी सेवाओं को ऑनलाइन करने का प्रयास किया जा रहा है । 2 से 3 दिन में पासपोर्ट बनकर घर आ जाता है । एक दिन में कंपनी रजिस्टर हो जाती है। ईज ऑफ लिविंग पर जोर दे रहे हैं । दवाईयां कम कीमत पर बेची जा रही हैं । विश्व बैंक ने भी हमारी महत्वकांक्षी सरकार के कार्यकाल में हो रहे व्यापक सुधार उपायों को सराहा है तथा कहा है कि भारत में दुनियां की दूसरी उभरती अर्थव्यवस्थाओं की तुलना में विकास की कहीं अधिक क्षमता है । इस लिहाज से मूल्यांकन करें तो सरकार ने बजटीय प्रावधानों में जिस तरह गांव से लेकर शहर तक और स्वास्थ्य से लेकर विनिर्माण क्षेत्र तक कई नई घोषणाएं की हैं, उससे यह उम्मीद तो है ही देश में विकास का समावेशी चरित्र उभरेगा । निश्चय ही यह बजट ग्रामीण भारत पर केंद्रित और किसान हितैशी है । वित्त मंत्री ने खरीफ के लिए फसलों के न्यूनतम समर्थन मूल्य में डेढ़ गुना बढ़ोतरी का ऐलान किया है। लागत के ऊपर 50 फीसद एम एस पी का कदम उठाकर हमारी सरकार ने स्वामीनाथन आयोग की सिफारिशें पर अमल करने का एक और चुनावी वायदा पूरा कर दिया है । उम्मीद है कि इनसे ग्रामीणों और किसानों की स्थिति में सुधार आएगा । इस अवसर पर मैं अपने जलगांव संसदीय क्षेत्र की निम्नलिखित समस्याओं की ओर सरकार का ध्यान दिलाते हुए अनुरोध करता हूं कि वह इन समस्याओं पर सहानुभूतिपूर्वक विचार कर इनके समाधान हेतु यथोचित एवं शीघ्र कार्यवाही करने हेतु बजट में आवश्यक धनराशि जारी करने हेतु आवश्यक कदम उठाए- केंद्र सरकार के पास महाराष्ट्र के जलगांव जिले की तीन महत्वपूर्ण परियोजनाएं काफी समय से विचारार्थ लंबित हैं। इन पर शीघ्र अनुमोदन कर उनके कार्यान्वयन हेतु आवश्यक धनराशि उपलब्ध करवाई जाए । महाराष्ट्र के धुले और चालीसगांव के बीच पड़ने वाले राष्ट्रीय राजमार्ग 211 का हिस्सा बुरी तरह जर्जर हो गया है तथा आम जनता को परेशानी हो रही है । इसलिए इस हिस्से की शीघ्रातिशीघ्र मरम्मत करने तथा उसे चौड़ा करने की जरूरत है। जलगांव शहर में पड़ने वाले राष्ट्रीय राजमार्ग 6 का हिस्सा बुरी तरह जर्जर हो गया है तथा संकरा होने के कारण आम जनता को घंटों ट्रेफिक जाम की समस्या से जूझना पड़ रहा है । इस हिस्से की शीघ्रातिशीघ्र मरम्मत करने तथा उसे चौड़ा करने की जरूरत है । आम जनता की अपेक्षाओं के मद्देनजर जलगांव जिले में 100 बिस्तरों वाला एक नेचुरोपैथी अस्पताल स्थापित किया जाना चाहिए । जलगांव के लगभग 50 साल पुराने गिरना बांध और सिंचाई प्रणाली के जमदा और दहीगांव जल संचय क्षेत्रों में जमा भारी मात्रा में गाद को निकालने, जलसंचय की क्षमता बढ़ाने तथा तटबंधों के निर्माण हेतु केंद्रीय जल आयोग के पास काफी समय से लंबित प्रस्ताव का शीघ्र अनुमोदन करने तथा उस पर कार्य करने हेतु आवश्यक धनराशि शीघ्र निर्गत की जाए । जलगांव में गिरना नदी को चेनलों के माध्यम से बोरी, अंजनि, टिटूर और महाश्वा सहायक नदियों से जोड़ने हेतु केंद्रीय जल आयोग के पास लंबित रीवर लिंकिंग परियोजना का शीघ्र अनुमोदन करने तथा उस पर कार्य करने हेतु आवश्यक धनराशि शीघ्र निर्गत की जाए । जलगांव में बड़ी संख्या में प्लास्टिक इकाई हैं जो विभिन्न प्लास्टिक उत्पादों का निर्माण करती हैं । यहां प्लास्टिक के विकास हेतु एक प्लास्टिक पार्क स्थापित किया जाए । जलगांव में बड़ी संख्या में विद्यमान कताई मिलों के विकास तथा उससे जुड़े अन्य उद्योगों के विकास हेतु यहां एक टेक्सटाइल पार्क अथवा क्लस्टर स्थापित किया जाए ताकि यहां आर्थिक विकास के साथ-साथ नौजवानों के लिए रोजगार के अवसरों में वृद्धि हो । हमारे जलगांव जिले में केला, आम और संतरा प्रजाति के फलों का काफी बड़ी मात्रा में उत्पादन होता है । अत: फल उत्पादक किसानों को उनके बेहतर कीमत सुनिश्चित करने तथा इनके प्रसंस्करण उद्योगों के साथ-साथ एक खाद्य प्रशिक्षण केंद्र स्थापित किया जाए ताकि प्रसंस्करण हेतु लघु उद्यमियों को प्रशिक्षण प्रदान कर उनकी आय के स्रोतों में वृद्धि के साथ-साथ रोजगार के अवसरों में भी वृद्धि हो । जलगांव में एक पैरा मिलिटरी प्रशिक्षण केंद्र स्थापित किया जाए । जलगांव में पासपोर्ट सेवा केंद्र स्थापित किया जाए । डिजिटल इंडिया प्रोग्राम के तहत लागू की जा रही इंडिया बी पी ओ प्रमोशन योजना के अंतर्गत जलगांव में भी आपरेशन चालू किए जाएं । इन शब्दों के साथ मैं अपनी सरकार द्वारा विगत चार सालों के दौरान देश के आम नागरिकों के हित हेतु किए जा रहे महत्वपूर्ण कार्यों के लिए बधाई देता हूं तथा हमारी सरकार द्वारा पेश किए गए इस एक और जनहितकारी बजट का समर्थन करता हूं । धन्यवाद 
 

  

 

SHRI K.N. RAMACHANDRAN ( SRIPERUMBUDUR ): Thank you, Sir, for giving me this opportunity to speak on the General Budget which is presented by the hon. Finance Minister. Sir, I am sorry to say that this Budget has lost the confidence of the people.  Going by any standard or yardstick, it has really failed all sections of the society.  I am sorry to say this.  I will narrate them during the course of my speech. As a real friend of the Treasury Bench, on behalf of our Party, I would like to express our humble feelings. The people of this country had very high hopes from this Government four years back when they voted for this Government. But, now, all their hopes are dashed by the last full Budget of this Government. There is nothing in this Budget for households; there is nothing for education of students; after completing their education, there is nothing for giving them employment; there is nothing for the Government employees and salaried class; there is nothing for industrial development; and there is nothing for States also. Whatever the Finance Minister has done, it is just to mobilize resources and keep them with the Centre, be it by way of GST or otherwise.  Let it be. In the very first paragraph, the hon. Finance Minister mentioned about reducing poverty and creation of infrastructure.  But, he has not allocated enough in the Budget for doing these things.  If that be so, how could one believe their words? He talked at length about the farming sector, health and wealth of the farmers. After four years, the Government is thinking about farmers’ welfare.  After four full years, now the Government is thinking about farmers’ welfare and farming sector.  But, here also, he did not spell out what sort of measures he is going to take to get them out of the rut that they are in now.  He did not say whether he is going to introduce a short-term or a long-term loan waiver scheme or not.  I would like to know whether the Government is serious about the farming sector, which is our backbone. If the Government is serious about the farming sector, it should make available water to the farmers, provide electricity to the pump-sets, provide affordable and quality seeds to farmers, and remunerative support price for their produce.  I am sorry to say that the Government has not done anything, except shedding crocodile tears. Had it been serious, it should have provided adequate funds for inter-linking of rivers.  In the case of Tamil Nadu, our farmers in the delta area get water only from the Cauvery River. The condition of our farmers in the delta area is pathetic due to unavailability of water.  Unavailability of Cauvery water is a perennial issue which needs to be settled at once.  The Government has not taken any action to constitute the Cauvery Management Board as mandated by the Final Award of the Tribunal. On the health sector also, he has brought in the National Health Policy, 2017 that proposed to set up 1.5 lakh centres throughout the country.  Though it would bring health closer to the people, a meagre allocation of Rs. 1200 crore in the Budget raises doubts in our minds whether it is a sort of ‘poll promise’ – it is our own doubt –  to cover the population or they really have health of the people in mind.  This should be clarified by the hon. Finance Minister. On the health front, I am glad to say that the Government of Tamil Nadu has done excellent work; it is the forerunner.  Our Amma had been a pioneer in implementing the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme and in providing universal healthcare across the State. I am sure, this is the case with most other States.  That being the case, whom is the Government talking about?  What is the meaning of it? This has become another slogan for facing the elections. In earlier Budgets, the Government promised three years back to set up one AIIMS-like institution in our State.  Places were also selected to set up AIIMS.  So far, the result is zero.  I am sorry to reiterate, please solve the grievances of our State – you had announced it earlier – regarding setting up AIIMS in our State.  Even after four years, and even after getting the suggestion from the Tamil Nadu Government, there is no result. Now, in this Budget, the Finance Minister spoke about setting up of at least one medical college for every three Parliamentary constituencies, and at least one Government medical college in each State.  Going by the speed with which the Government is taking action, I am not sure when they will come to be established. Sir, as we all know, education is the backbone of any economy.  The country’s future depends on the education of its citizens.  But sadly, the Government has not allocated adequate funds for education sector.  The education sector has become a sick sector particularly, the professional colleges. Now, with the policies of the Government, this is the time when the Government should hand-hold such educational institutions for the future of our country and youngsters.  The educational institutions are in a very pathetic condition.  More pathetic is the condition of the students coming out of those institutions. There is no employment available to them after education.  The Government has no policy for placement. There are no employment opportunities available to them. No policy guideline and direction are given to those who implement the policies. Sir, the Finance Minister has given about Rs. 2,500 crore for Tamil Nadu for the development of Railways.  Really, it is peanuts for us. It is not sufficient. When people are expecting the Centre to give special focus on expanding the capacity of suburban Railways in Chennai, unfortunately, it has been left out in this Budget whereas Mumbai and Bengaluru have got adequate funds for their suburban train systems. I am not questioning. I am very happy.  My State of Tamil Nadu is being consistently neglected by the Centre.  My constituency Sriperumbudur houses many industrial establishments.  It is an industrial hub and we have been demanding Sriperumbudur-Bengaluru Industrial Corridor for quite some time.  But the Government has not taken that into account as yet. Sir, several  thousand Government employees reside in my constituency. My constituency is in Chennai’s peripheral area.  The Government employees are totally disappointed.  This is for your kind information through our Speaker.  It is the taxation measure of the Finance Minister.  This has insulted our Government employees.  You are giving Rs. 40,000 as standard deduction on one hand but you have taken away the benefits hitherto given to them under transport allowances and health insurance schemes on the other hand.  Please look into this. There are no special concessions given to women in the Budget.  There is nothing for women entrepreneurs also in this Budget. I want to say something about women who are being portrayed in a bad light in TV serials, cinemas, social media and others.  TV channels are also bothered only about TRP and not about the impact that it is going to make on the other populace. Indirectly, others are also being influenced badly due to this. I request the Government to pay attention to this aspect if the Government is seriously bothered about the women of India. I agree that the Government has given some benefit to MSME sector.  I am very happy.  It has reduced the corporate tax to 25 per cent for companies with a turnover of less than Rs. 250 crore but much more needs to be done to this sector so that the country moves speedily forward.  The expectations of the MSME sector are far greater and they need to be supported more because they are significant contributors to new employment generation. Now, I am coming to GST.  This is an important issue. I would make the following points - I come from a particular constituency which houses many industrial establishments - for the consideration of our hon. Finance Minister. The impact of non-compensation of IGST is huge. Most of the auto majors and manufacturing units are suffering due to non-availability of IGST compensation. They get major tax relief only through IGST. In the post-GST scenario, the output tax incentive is restricted to sales within the State, that is, 14 per cent SGST but it is not for inter-State sales. Secondly, 80-90 per cent of sales of the industry are inter-State sales. So, unavailability of IGST incentive is a huge loss for the industries that have pan-India sales. So, I request the Centre to consider compensating the IGST component, as was available earlier. There is another important issue. This is a golden chance that our hon. Finance Minister is sitting here. Really, I am much more happy. Everybody knows that the Tamil fishermen are suffering a lot and the Government of Tamil Nadu has been demanding a ‘Comprehensive Special Package for Diversification of Fisheries in Tamil Nadu’, with an allocation of Rs.1,650 crore. The Centre has not paid heed to this demand. Tamil Nadu lost heavily due to the unfair recommendations of the Fourteenth Finance Commission. As a compensation, the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu demanded an annual special grant of Rs.2,000 crore for four years. The Centre has not replied to that as yet. The irony is that even the Thirteenth Finance Commission grants are pending to be released by the Centre. The grants are pending to be released by the Centre under Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan and Rastriya Madhyamik Shiksha Abhiyan. Post-Matric and Pre-Matric Scholarship Schemes grants are also yet to be released. There were several demands that were put forth by the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu through the Memorandum submitted to the hon. Prime Minister on 27.02.2017. The Finance Minister may consider those demands and allocate appropriate sums of money for the overall development of Tamil Nadu. Sir, with these words, with a heavy heart, I support this Budget and conclude my speech. Thank you. *डॉ.सुनील बलिराम गायकवाड़ ( लातूर ): हमारे देश के लोकप्रिय प्रधानमंत्री माननीय नरेंद्र मोदी जी की सरकार ने यह जो बजट प्रस्तुत किया है, यह आम आदमी, दलित,गरीब,पिछड़े समाज के लोगों के हित को ध्यान में रखकर पेश किया है । हमारे देश में गरीब जनता दवा-पानी से परेशान होती है। महंगी दवा-पानी से परेशान होती है। महंगी दवा बाजार में है,लेकिन जेनरिक मेडिसन के कारण सस्ती दवा देने का काम आदरणीय मोदी जी की सरकार ने किया है । इस बजट में हर परिवार को साल में पांच लाख रुपए तक का खर्चा दवाखाने पर करने के लिए प्रयोजन किया गया है । मेरे लोक सभा क्षेत्र लातूर में इस बजट में नई रेल लाईन-लातूर-नांदेड के लिए अच्छी राशि रखी गयी है । लातूर-कुडूवाडी डबलिंग के लिए भी बजट में बड़ी राशि रखी गई है । मेरे लोक सभा क्षेत्र लातूर में नौ हजार करोड़ रुपए नेशनल हाईवे के लिए रखे गए हैं । इस बजट से हमारी भारतीय जनता बहुत खुश हुई है । मेरे लोक सभा क्षेत्र में तो आम जनता बहुत आनंद में है । मैं इसका समर्थन करता हूँ । धन्यवाद 
 

  

 

*SHRIMATI APARUPA PODDAR ( ARAMBAG ) :  The Government has announced various schemes but just like the previous budget no specific details of their implementation have been given. The Government budgetary promises on providing insurance coverage to 10 Crore poor families is the biggest jumla as there is no clear policy for health and senior citizen. The Government should improve facilities of State run hospitals. Like in West Bengal, our Hon. Chief Minister, Smt. Mamta Banerjee has done free dialysis, hearth surgery, Sisu-Sathi Scheme, free cancer treatment, fair price medicine shop in all Government hospitals in West Bengal. There is no explanation on how the Swachch Bharat funds, Swachch Bharat cess etc.  were utilised. No one knows what happened to the bullet train. Education policies have been interacting for a last couple of decades to increase the education budget to 6% GDP, but the Government don't buzz. We want to make our institutions world class but we do not have even half the budget of what a world class institution spends on their colleges. Finance Minister has tried to make improvements for farmers, but the problems of farmers and rural people are enormous. Measures are not suffiencient. The Government has talked about doubling the farmer's income, but for that the agricultural growth should increase up to 12 %; that is not there. GST has been around its implementation, but its benefits are in a fall in the effective tax incidence. GST removes the cascading impact of indirect taxes. Its introduction is supposed to reduce the final indirect taxes we pay. Budget 2018-19 does not show any such impact. The Government in its budget for 2018-19 has not announced any scheme for minorities nor has it given any serious thought about gender budgeting.  Even SC/ST castes have lost their priority in governmental schemes. Everybody cannot fry pakoras, recently PM remarks "Pakora" seller earning Rs. 200 a day should also be conidered employed. There is a serious distortion between employment and investment. There are no certain attempts for employment generation. It is not a growth-oriented budget. *SHRI P. SRINIVASA REDDY ( KHAMMAM ):          The Union Budget for 2018-19 has promised to fix minimum support prices (MSP) for crops to guarantee farmers at least 50 per cent returns on production costs.  This is quite similar to the original recommendation of the MS Swaminathan headed National Commission on Farmers (which called for MSPs to be "at least 50 per cent more than the weighted average cost of production").  The Government has come up with new definition for Minimum Support Price (MSP), which in fact has made no change in the old MSP. Since 2006, farmers' organizations have been demanding that the MSP should be at least one-and-a-half times the "C2" production cost, based on the recommendations of the National Commission on Farmers, Professor M.S. Swaminathan, who headed the commission, has stated clearly that the recommended formula as at least 50 per cent above "C2".           Whether the Swaminathan Committee's formula has been made applicable while announcing the MSP for farmers in the current Budget? Last year, the share of agriculture ministry was a miniscule 2.38 per cent of the entire Budget.  This time, it has dipped to 2.36 per cent.  Interest subvention on loans got Rs.15,000 crore last year.  It remains the same this year.  The allocation for Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana was reduced from Rs.4,500 crore (RE) to Rs.3,600 crore.  The allocation for Market Intervention Scheme and Price Support Scheme went down from Rs.950 crore (RE) to Rs.200 crore.  However, a few schemes like Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinachai Yojana (PMKSY) has been increased to some extent from Rs.7,377 to Rs.8851. In Telangana, farmers are in distress.  Paddy, chilli, cotton and other commercial crops are not fetching Minimum Support Price. One more thing, I would like to bring to the notice that this Government had in affidavit submitted to the Supreme Court in 2015 said that it cannot give the 1.5 times profit.  However, it has announced it now in the Budget 2018.  But, actually, the Government is not going to give MSP as per the Swaminathan Commission's recommendations.  I request to implement the Swaminathan's Commission. The subabul wood, which is used as raw material in paper production is growing in Telangana and is usually purchased in large quantities by ITC, Bhadrachalam, Sirpur Paper Mills and AP Paper Mills.  At the time of plantation of subabul, the representatives of these Papers Mills are entering into agreements to purchase at prevailing price by the paper mills.  But, the time of crop cutting, they are not honouring the agreements and cheating the farmers and there is no mechanism to monitor the sale and the entire market has gone into the hands of middlemen.I request the Government to ensure that subabul farmers should get remunerated price. Our Hon. Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi gave a clarion call to double farmers' income by 2022 when India celebrates its 75th year of Independence.  It seems, it remains as a distant dream. While bifurcating Andhra Pradesh State, the Government had made promise to establish a Steel Plant at Bayyaram. The newly carved Telangana State is one of the most backward regions in India.  Although this region is backward in all respects, the Telangana region is rich in several mineral resources.  Bayyaram Iron Ore is one such valuable resource, which, if utilized, can appropriately provide a great boost to the development of the newly carved Telangana state.  The Bayyaram mines extends over about 1,41,725 acress (56,690 hectares) across Khammam district covering Bayyaram, Garla etc. and some Mandals of Warangal district. For judicious utilization of these natural resources, a Public Sector Steel Plant may be constructed at Bayyaram so that the valuable ore can be used properly.  Bayyaram location has several advantages.  Coal, which is an important raw material for steel production, is available at Illendu, which is just 24 km away.  Dolomite- another important raw material is also available at Madharam, about 15 Km from Bayyaram.  The plant will generate employment to thousands of tribals in Khammam and Warangal districts. It will also fetch thousands of crores of revenue to the Government every year. I have also requested the Government to establish Mining University under Dhanbad Mining University.          It has also not been considered.  People of this region are upset that the Government has not made any allocation for this. Government has announced setting up of Ekalavya Model Residential School on par with Navodaya Vidyalayas to provide the best quality education to the tribal children in their own environemnt by 2022 in every block with more than 50 per cent ST population and at least 20,000 tribal persons with special facilities for preserving local art and culture besides providing training in sports and skill development. My constituency, Khammam district in Telangana has got 10 Assembly Constituencies.  Out o0f these 10 constituencies, 5 constituencies are STs and 3 Constituencies are of SCs and the remaining 3 constituencies are General. Total 70 per cent people of my Constituency are Tribes. I request to the Government that one Ekalavya Model Residential School on par  with Navodaya Vidyalayas to establish in my Khammam constituency, as the tribal population will get benefit of it. The Government has also not allocated funds for implementation of ongoing schemes in Telangana and but it has made a meagre allocations for the state includes Rs.10 crore for the Tribal University and Rs.75 crore for the Indian Institute of Technology, Hyderabad.  While there were no specific allocations made to Telangana, the Centre said that Rs 440.51 crore was allocated for drinking water projects, to provide safe drinking water to arsenic and fluoride affected habitations in the next four years. While there were no specific allocations made to Telangana, the Centre said that Rs.440.51 crore was allocated for drinking water projets, to provide safe drinking water to arsenic and fluoride affected habitations in the next four years.  But, injustice was done to the state with no allocation for its flagship programmes like Mission Kakatiya and Mission Bhagiratha and for prestigious irrigation project Kaleshwaram.  Another important irrigation project Seetharama Project on river Godavari, which provides drinking water facility to the tribal people and there is persistent demand to make this project as "National Project and accord National Project Status".       But, no allocation has been made for this new project. At least some funds should have been allocated to the Kaleshwaram irrigation project.          The Bhadrachalam Division of Telangana State has got highest population of tribes and other nomadic tribes.  For their welfare, the previous Government had announced a Bhadrachalam-Kovvur Railway line.  The proposal relates to construction of new broad gauge railway line from Bhadrachalam Road- Kovvur alignment (sanctioned in Railway Budget 2013-14) by merging with Bhadrachalam-Sattupalli alignment (Sanctioned in Railway budget of 2010-11), upto proposed Chandragonda Station on Bhadrachalam - Sattupalli line as both these alignments are falling in the same vicinity - within 21 kilometers- which covers mainly tribal areas to facilitate these tribal to mix up with mainstream but no expeditious progress has been achieved and no reference has been made in this budget. Right from the beginning, I have been asking for new Railway Lines.  Every year Rs.5 crores and 6 crores are nominally allocating, which is not spending and again repeating the same. People of my region are not happy with this move. There are three major Railway Stations in my Constituency, Khammam, Kothagudem and Madhira and I have been requesting the Government to improve these stations and provide halts to some Express trains in these stations.  But, the Government has not considered the request of these people. In this Budget, the Government has announced World's Largest Health Protection Scheme covering over 10 crore poor and vulnerable families launched with a family limit upto 5 lakh rupees for secondary and tertiary treatment.  I appreciate the Government's move in the healthcare sector of announcing worth Rs.5 lakh per family per year for secondary and tertiary care hospitalization  and the Government has also announced 24 new Government Medical Colleges and Hospitals by upgrading existing district hospitals in the country. Since my constituency is predominantly covered by tribal, if the Government considers one such Medical college in my Constituency, it will be helpful for the tribal population. I, therefore, request the Government to consider my requests and provide some allocations for the people of my Constituency and for the welfare of Telangana State. श्रीगणेश सिंह ( सतना ) :माननीय उपाध्यक्ष महोदय,सबसे पहले मैं आपका धन्यवाद करता हूं कि आपने मुझे बजट पर बोलने का अवसर दिया है । माननीय वित्त मंत्री जी ने वर्ष 2017-18 का जो बजट प्रस्तुत किया है, वह ऐतिहासिक तथा देश को गति देने वाला बजट है। जहां एक ओर इस बजट से गरीबों तथा किसानों की हर जरूरत पूरी होगी, वहीं देश का तेज गति से चहुंमुखी विकास भी होगा । माननीय प्रधान जी ने वर्ष 2014 में पहली बार इस सदन को संबोधित करते हुए कहा था कि हमारी यह सरकार गरीबों की सरकार होगी, किसानों की सरकार होगी,युवाओं की सरकार होगी,महिलाओं की सरकार होगी और हमारी सरकार ईमानदार, स्वच्छ और पारदर्शी व्यवस्था देगी। ठीक उसी के अनुरूप,हमारा यह बजट प्रस्तुत हुआ है, उसी तरफ उसका पूरा डायरैक्शन दिया गया है । हमारे विपक्ष के कुछ नेताओं को इस बजट में कुछ समझ नहीं आ रहा है  । जब देश के बजट में गरीबों,किसानों और गांवों के लिए प्रावधान होता है तो निश्चित तौर पर कुछ राजनीतिक दलों को उसमें अच्छा नहीं लगता है, लेकिन भारतीय जनता पार्टी,नरेन्द्र मोदी जी की सरकार का एक ही लक्ष्य है कि हम इस देश का समावेशी विकास करें, सबको साथ लेकर विकास करें और आगे बढ़ें । आज देश में सर्वाधिक जरूरत है कि हम गरीबों की मदद करें । गांधी जी कहा करते थे कि जब हमारी लोकतंत्र की सरकार बने,उसमें सबसे पहले ध्यान गरीबों पर होना चाहिए। ठीक इसी तरह डॉ. लोहिया जी भी कहते थे कि जब हमारी सरकार बने, तो गाँव, गरीब,किसान और महिला का विशेष ध्यान रखा जाए । पंडित दीनदयाल उपाध्याय जी हमें हमेशा कहते रहे कि जब हमारे विचारों की सरकार बने,तो सबसे पहले अंत्योदय का उसमें पूरी तरह से समावेश हो । नेहरू जी की सरकार ने रोटी,कपड़ा और मकान देने की बात कही थी । इसके बाद जब श्रीमती इंदिरा गांधी जी सत्ता में आईं,तब उन्होंने गरीबी मिटाने की बात कही । फिर जब राजीव गांधी जी आए,तो उन्होंने 21वीं सदी के सपने दिखाए,लेकिन बजट आते रहे और गरीबी का कोई हल नहीं निकला । किसानों की तकलीफ का कोई हल नहीं निकला । गांव बुनियादी जरूरतों के लिए मोहताज रहे। मैं माननीय प्रधान मंत्री मोदी जी को धन्यवाद देना चाहता हूं जिन्होंने अपने सभी वायदों को इस बजट में ही नहीं, बल्कि पहले के जो चार बजट थे, उनमें भी पूरी तरह से फोकस किया है और आज देश की तस्वीर बदलती हुई दिखाई पड़ रही है । HON. DEPUTY SPEAKER: Hon. Member, you can continue your speech tomorrow. The House stands adjourned at meet again on Thursday, 8th February, 2018 at 11.00 am. 21 01 hrs The Lok Sabha then adjourned till Eleven of the Clock 

on Thursday, February 8, 2018 / Magha 19, 1939 (Saka). * The sign + marked above the name of a Member indicates that the Question was actually asked on the floor of the House by that Member. * These Reports were presented to Hon’ble Speaker, Lok Sabha on 14th December, 2017 under Direction 71A of the Directions by the Speaker, Lok Sabha.  The Speaker was pleased to order the printing, publication and circulation of the Reports under Rule 280 of the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha.   The matter was duly notified vide Lok Sabha Bulletin Part II dated 28th December, 2017. * Not recorded 

 

* Speech was laid on the Table 

 

Speech was laid on the Table. * Speech was laid on the Table 

 

* Speech was laid on the Table 

 

* Speech was laid on the Table. * Speech was laid on the Table 

 

* Speech was laid on the Table 

 

* Speech was laid on the Table. * Speech was laid on the Table. * Speech was laid on the Table. * Speech was laid on the Table. * Speech was laid on the Table 

 

* Speech was laid on the Table. * Speech was laid on the Table. * Speech was laid on the Table. * Speech was laid on the Table. * Speech was laid on the Table 

 

* Speech was laid on the Table. * Speech was laid on the Table. * Speech was laid on the Table 

 

* Speech was laid on the Table. * Speech was laid on the Table. * Speech was laid on the Table. * Speech was laid on the Table. * Not recorded 

 

* Not recorded 

 

* Speech was laid on the Table 

 

* Speech was laid on the Table. * Speech was laid on the Table. * Speech was laid on the Table 

 

* Not recorded 

 

* Speech was Laid on the Table 

 

* Speech was laid on the Table. * Speech was laid on the Table 

 

* Speech was laid on the Table 

 

*  Speech was laid on the Table 

 

* Not recorded 

 

* Speech was laid on the Table. * Speech was laid on the Table 

 

* Speech was  laid on the Table 

 

* Not recorded 

 

* Notrecorded 

 

  

 

* Not recorded 

 

* Speech was laid on the Table 

 

* Speech was laid on the Table. * Speech was laid on the Table. * Speech was laid on the Table 

 

* Speech was laid on the Table