07.04.2025 01. Petitioner, through the medium of this petition, seeks following reliefs:- 02. Petitioner claims to be owner in possession of the land falling under khasra

no. 88 measuring 17 kanals situate at ward no. 49 Channi Rama Jammu and he

has installed/established Bore well over a portion of land pursuant to the

permission granted by the competent authority i.e. Chief Engineer, Jal Shakti

Jammu and his said unit is duly registered with the Jal Shakti Department vide no.

PHEJ/DB/15256-61 dated 13.12.2021. In addition, he has also availed the electric

connection from the Power Development Department and under Rules, he is

regularly paying the tariff to the Department. 03. The case of the petitioner is that before obtaining the permission from the

Jal Shakti Department, the Executive Engineer, PHE, granted him the NOC and

accordingly the bore well was established. In pursuance to the aforesaid, the

petitioner is conducting the business of the service station for washing of vehicles

which has been registered under the J&K Shops and Establishment Act, 1966 vide

registration no. 5163463523. 04. The petitioner further contends that a false and frivolous anonymous

complaint was received by the respondent no. 2 against him, wherein it has been

alleged that he has illegally established water pumping station, dumped

construction material, and constructed a commercial building. As a result, he was

directed to submit detailed reply, which was duly submitted to the competent

authority. In the reply, it was clearly stated that the petitioner had established the

bore well after obtaining the necessary permission from the Jal Shakti

Department, and the service station is properly registered under the J&K Shops

and Establishment Act. 05. It is specific case of the petitioner that regarding the issue of land use, the

applicable rules do not apply to his case. The permission for the bore well was 3 WP(C) No. 822/2025 granted and established in 2021, at which time no such permission was required.

However, the Jammu Development Authority later amended the Master Plan,

incorporating Clause 5.1 on Land Use, under which the use is now permitted.

Despite this, respondents no. 2 and 3, without giving proper consideration to the

reply submitted by the petitioner and without conducting any inquiry, issued the

order dated 07.03.2025, which is impugned in the present petition. 06. Thus, according to Mr. Thakur, learned counsel for the petitioner, the

finding recorded by the Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Jammu South, in the

impugned order that the petitioner is carrying out commercial activities without

obtaining the requisite change of land use, is devoid of proper consideration and is

not sustainable in the eyes of the law. Insofar as the second allegation is

concerned that the petitioner is selling 20-30 tankers per day and thereby

conducting commercial activities without proper permission in a residential area,

Mr. Thakur, denies this claim, stating that it is factually incorrect. Lastly, Mr.

Thakur, submits that respondent, without according due consideration to the reply

submitted by the petitioner in response to the anonymous complaint, has issued

the order impugned which is not sustainable in the eyes of law and is liable to be

quashed, as the petitioner has already obtained the necessary permission and the

allegation regarding the requirement for a change of land use permission does not

apply to the petitioner's case 07. Heard learned counsel for the petitioner and perused the record. 08. Issue notice. 09. Mrs. Monika Kohli, learned Sr. AAG accepts notice on behalf of the

respondents. 10. At this stage, Mr. G.S Thakur, learned counsel for the petitioner, submits

that he would be satisfied in case, the present petition is disposed of with a

direction to the respondents to accord due consideration to the reply submitted by

the petitioner, after giving an opportunity of being heard to him. He further

requests that a committee be constituted afresh within some reasonable period,

taking into account the permission already accorded in favour of the petitioner, to

which learned counsel appearing for the respondents no. 1 to 4 has no objections. 11. With the consent of learned counsels for both parties, the instant petition is

disposed of at the threshold by directing respondent no. 2, the Additional Deputy

Commissioner, Jammu, to constitute committee afresh within one week,

consisting of the Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Jammu South, a representative from

the Jal Shakti Department, and the concerned Tehsildar (Tehsildar, Bahu District

Jammu). Upon formation, the committee so constituted, will conduct a fresh

inquiry regarding the allegations levelled by the residents of Ward No. 49 Channi

Rama, Jammu, through Rajeev Singh (respondent no. 5), or any other stakeholder

who may be aggrieved, by notifying the date in advance to all the stakeholders

including complainant and petitioner by providing them an opportunity of being

heard. The said committee will submit its report to the respondent no. 2 within

two weeks thereafter and subject to the submission of the report by the said

committee, the respondent no. 2 will take appropriate action and pass

consideration order on the basis of such findings within one week, thereafter. The

decision which is likely to be taken by respondent no. 2 be forwarded to the

petitioner through Registered post. 12. Needless to say that while according due consideration, the committee will

look into the permission already granted by the concerned Chief Engineer, as per 5 WP(C) No. 822/2025 the Registration Certification dated 13.12.2021 in favour of the petitioner under

Section 114 read with Rule 60 of Water Resources Regulation and Management

Act 2010 and determine whether the bore well is being used strictly in accordance

with the terms and conditions of such registration. The committee will also

examine, whether a change of land use permission is required in the petitioner's

case, considering the fact that the petitioner was granted valid permission in 2021

and whether the amendment carried in the Master Plan incorporating Clause 5.1

on land use, is applicable to the case of the petitioner or not. 13. Until a decision is made by the respondent no. 2 in the light of what has

been discussed hereinabove, the status quo as it exists today shall be maintained.

The further course of action will abide by the decision which is likely to be taken

by the respondent no. 2. 14. At this stage, Mr. Thakur, submits that as on date, the order impugned has

not been implemented and the property has not been seized. 15. In the aforesaid backdrop, it is made clear that in case property in question

has not been seized till today, the position will remain unchanged until the

aforesaid order is passed as has been directed hereinabove. Conversely, if the

property has already been seized, it shall remain seized until the order is passed . 16. The petition is disposed of in the manner indicated above. (Wasim Sadiq Nargal)
 Judge

Jammu
07.04.2025
Abinash
 Whether the order is speaking? Yes/No
 Whether the order is reportable? Yes/No