1. Rule.     Learned   APP,   waives   service   of   rule   on   behalf   of 

respondent­State. 2. This application is preferred under Section 439 of the  Code of 

Criminal Procedure, 1973 by the applicants who are facing accusations 

for the offences under Sections 3 and 4 of Money Laundering Act, 2002 

[hereinafter referred to as " PML Act "] being PMLA Complaint Case No. 

01 of  2013  and  that  the  applicants along  with other  co­accused  are 

arraigned in the cases registered by CBI under three RCs i.e. (i) RC­

10(A)/2010   dated   18.09.2010   about   the   fraud   with   regard   to   Senior 

Citizen Savings Scheme, (ii) RC 14(A)/2010 dated 26.10.2010   about Page 1 of 10 R/CR.MA/2492/2014 ORDER

the   fraud   with   regard   to   Monthly   Income   Schemes   and   (iii)   RC 

2(A)/2011 dated 22.02.2011 about the fraud of interests for Monthly 

Income   Schemes   and   withdrawal   of   amount   of   saving   scheme   and 

thereby   defrauding   the   account   holder.  The   details   of   which   are 

provided in the complaint filed at page 13 and 14. The CBI filed three 

charge­sheets against various accused including the present applicants 

as mentioned in para 2(d) of the complaint, for the offences punishable 

under Sections   120B , 467 and 471 of   the   Indian   Penal   Code     and Section 13(2) read with Section 13(1) of the Prevention of Corruption 

Act and also scheduled offences as per Section 2(y) of the PML Act. 2.1. In the above backdrop of the circumstances, learned advocate for 

the applicants contended that the record so far pertaining to alleged 

offences and transactions is already with the Investigating authority i.e. 

The Directorate of Enforcement Office ­ respondent no. 1 herein and the 

trial has yet not commenced and even after commencement of the trial, 

it   may   take   years   together   to   try   requirements   and   till   then   the 

applicants are not to be kept behind the bar. It is submitted that in a 

nature of case like this, when there is no possibility of tampering with 

the evidence in any manner, either influencing witnesses  or any other 

tampering, the Court may enlarge the accused on bail. 3. Heard   learned   counsel   for   the   applicants,   learned   counsel   for 

respondent   no.   1   and   learned   APP   for   the   respondent   -   State. Considering the nature of crime and offences registered under the PML 

Act coupled with registration of offences by CBI under Sections 120B , 467 and 471 of   the   Indian   Penal   Code   and   now   the   Special   Court 

designated under Sub­section (1) of Section 43 of the PML Act for the Page 2 of 10 R/CR.MA/2492/2014 ORDER

trial of the offences under Section 3 and punishable under Section 4 of 

the   PML   Act,   I   am   of   the   view   that   in   such   type   of   cases   of   huge 

financial  scam,  where senior  citizens  who had invested  their  lifetime 

earnings,   came   to   be   defrauded,   I   am   not   inclined   to   enlarge   the 

applicants on bail, even by imposing stringent conditions. Further, in 

view   of   well   reasoned   order   passed   by   the   learned   Sessions   & 

Designated   Judge,   Ahmedabad   Rural   to   which,  I   am   in   complete 

agreement   with   the   reasonings   given   by   the   Court   below   in 

paragraph  nos.  25 to 37. Hence,  I find no reasons  to interfere 

with the same. The said paragraphs are reproduced herein below :­

 "25. Foregoing submissions made by learned advocate at  
 length makes me conclusive that there is no doubt nor any  
 situation before me to raise any doubt regarding the settled  
 principle that 'Bail is a Rule and Jail is a Exception'. I am  
 bound  by this  ratio  which  is binding  to all Courts  within  
 India   since   long   there   about   1977.   Therefore,   here   is   a  
 question   before   me   that   case   on   hand   falls   within   the  
 purview of Rule or falls within the purview of Exception ?  
 Again it is required to be noted that learned advocate for  
 the   applicants   has   submitted   before   me   regarding   the  
 guide­line and dictum of the Hon'ble Apex Court but there  
 is no submission before me that what was the intention of  
 legislature   for   enacting   the PML   Act 2002   and   after  
 enactment in 2002 what was the intention by legislature in  
 amending   the PML   Act,   2005 ,   then   in   2009   and   then   in  
 2012.   I   am   of   the   opinion   that   when   a   question   arises  
 before   the   Court   for   any   provision   Court   has   to   put  
 harmonious   construction   amongst   all   the   provision   of  
 legislative   intention   and   it   is   not   open   for   any   Court   to  
 interpret the single provision or provision of any single Act  
 but   it   is   the   duty   of   Court   to   interpret   the   facts   and  
 circumstances of the case within the legal parameter of all  
 the Laws enacted by the legislature and while doing this  
 exercise   I  can  not   say   that  I   have  to   draw   my  attention Page 3 of 10 R/CR.MA/2492/2014 ORDER

 towards   only Cr.P.C .,   as   interpreted   the   provisions   of Cr.P.C ., by the Hon'ble Apex Court and thereby I can not  
 say that on basis of only interpretation in the Cr.P.C ., more  
 particularly for Section 439 of Cr.P.C. I have to decide this  
 application.   But,   I   am   under   the   legislative   mandate   to  
 interpret the legislative intention for Section 439 of Cr.P.C.,  
 and   the   guide­line   by   Hon'ble   High   Courts   and   Hon'ble  
 Supreme  Court for this provision as discussed above, but  
 at the  same  time  when  this  bail application  is connected  
 with   the   provisions   of PML   Act ,   I   am   also   under   the  
 legislative mandate to consider the legislative intention as  
 contained   in Section   45(1) Section   45(2) of   the   PML   Act.  
 Therefore,   the   discussion   of   both   these   provisions   are  
 required to be followed during this discussion. 26. As   discussed   earlier   legislative   intention   is   crystal  
 clear that limitation on granting of the bail specified in Sub­
 section (1) n of Section 45 of PML Act is in addition to the  
 limitation   under   the Code   of   Criminal   Procedure .   More  
 particularly   this   petition   being   a   bail   application   under Section   439 of   Cr.P.C.,   Legislative   intention   which   I   find  
 from the plain reading  of Sub­section  (2) of Section  45 of  
 PML   Act   is   to   be   read   over   and   nature   of   limitation   in  
 granting the bail is to be discussed when the bail is sought  
 for or bail is to be enlarged in connection with the crimes  
 under the PML Act . 27. Thus,   I   am   under   the   legislative   mandate   and   to  
 follow the legislative  intention, I have  to deal  with points  
 that what is contemplated under Sub­ section 2 of Section  
 45 of PML Act and in no circumstances, I am at liberty to  
 ignore   this   legislative   intention,   as   this   application   is   for  
 enlargement  of bail  is in connection  with  the  PMLA  Case  
 No. 1 of 2013. 28. Much   discussion   are   there   by   me   regarding  
 legislative  intention  of PML  Act during  the  Criminal  Misc.  
 Application No. 41/2014  which was preferred by present  
 applicants with their prayer for anticipatory bail, wherein  
 the question is decided by this Court that there is no merits  
 in the submission that on basis of Section 201 and 210 of Page 4 of 10 R/CR.MA/2492/2014 ORDER Cr.P.C .,   this PML   Act proceedings   are   not   maintainable.  
 Moreover, despite such observation during the paragraph 6  
 of   the   order   in   said   Criminal   Misc.   Application   No.  
 41/2014,   learned   advocate   for   the   applicants   have  
 submitted nothing in connection with the applicability/non­  
 applicability of Section 45 of PML Act and how the case of  
 applicants is within the parameter as to granting of the bail  
 even under Section 45 of the PML Act is not pleaded and  
 mentioned nothing on this point. 29. Now plain reading of Sub­section (1) of Section 45 of  
 PML Act, it reveals that PML Act has over riding effect over  
 the provisions of Cr.P.C . I took this view upon plain reading  
 of the words of the Sub­section (1) of Section 45 of PML Act  
 which are as "Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973 (2 of 1974)". Moreover,  
 legislature has used the words  "no person accused of an  
 offence punishable for a term of imprisonment of more than  
 three years under Part A of the Schedule shall be released  
 on bail". This word connoted that legislature has intended  
 to deal with question regarding release on bail despite the  
 offence is punishable for term for more than 3 years. The  
 conditions  in respect  of said  offence  are  narrated  further  
 with   legislative   mandate   to   the   Judicial   Officer   that  
 application  for such  released  can  not be decided  without  
 giving   opportunity   of   hearing   to   Public   Prosecutor.   Plain  
 reading of this clause (i) of Sub­ section 1 of Section 45 of  
 PML   Act   connotes   that   court   is   under   legal   obligation   to  
 respect the legislative mandate that application for bail can  
 not   be   decided   without   hearing   to   Public   Prosecutor  
 Heading of Section 45 clearly shows that "Offences to be  
 cognizable   and   non­bailable".   Plain   reading   of   this   word  
 used  by the  legislature  clearly  makes  me  conclusive  that  
 initial order while taking cognizance for the PMLA Criminal  
 Case   No.   1   of   2013,   order   passed   by   this   Court   for  
 issuance   of   non­bailable   warrant  is   the   order   passed   by  
 this Court, perfectly within the legal parameter of Section  
 45 of PML Act. 30. In such circumstances attempt  by learned advocate  
 to   show   that   in   prior   incidents   about   directly   issuing Page 5 of 10 R/CR.MA/2492/2014 ORDER

 bailable warrant while dealing with the case of PMLA can  
 not be followed. Thus, the order on 21.12.2013 and taking  
 cognizance and issuance of non­bailable warrant is within  
 the legal parameters as contemplated under Section 45 of  
 the PML Act. 31. Thus, after issuance of NBW, Court is under further  
 legislative   mandate   to   provide   an   opportunity   to   oppose  
 application. In the case on hand there is no clarity before  
 me   that   after   having   undertaken   the   duty   by   learned  
 advocate for applicants/ accused for serving a process to  
 opponent no. 1, whether same are duly served to opponent  
 No.   1.   Moreover,   learned   advocate   Mr.   Mishra   has   also  
 refrain   from   filing   a   purshis   that   he   has   been   duly  
 authorized   to   defend   this   bail   application   on   behalf   of  
 opponent no. 1, after serving of a process to opponent no. 1.   I   leave   this   lacuna   yet   to   be   explained   by   learned  
 advocate   Mr.   Mishra   and   learned   advocate   for   the  
 applicants. But I can certainly say that   what is done by  
 them  is  not  a nature  which  can  be  labeled  that  same  is  
 within   the   legal   parameters.   Moreover,   Vakalatnama   is  
 found filed at Ex.2 in PMLA Criminal Case No. 1 of 2013 to  
 represent   the   case   by   Mr.   S.N.   Mishra   and   Bhagyodaya  
 Mishra but signature is by single advocate for acceptance  
 of Vakalatnama without   any clarification   that out of Mr.  
 S.N.   Mishra   and   Shri   Bhagyodaya   Mishra   who   accepted  
 the   Vakalatnama.   Here   it   is   required   to   be   noted   that  
 Vakalatnama Exh. 2 in PMLA Criminal Case No. 1 of 2013  
 is   incomplete   and   same   is   to   be   filed   again   with   the  
 clarification   by   the   Authority   that   who   is   given  
 authorization to plead on behalf of the complainant namely  
 Deputy Director, Directorate of Enforcement, Government of  
 India, Ahmedabad. With this observation I proceed further  
 towards the further discussion. 32. Clause (ii) of Sub­ section 1 of Section 45 of PML Act  
 speaks   that   "where   the   Public   Prosecutor   opposes   the  
 application".   In   the   case   on   hand   learned   advocate   Mr.  
 Mishra has endorsed "Formally objection ......."  Here in the  
 case   on   hand   on   the   basis   of   this   endorsement   I   am   at  
 conclusion   that   this   application   is   opposed.   Here   it   is Page 6 of 10 R/CR.MA/2492/2014 ORDER

 necessary   to   take   note   that   it   is   open   for   parties   to   the  
 proceedings to oppose any application or not to oppose any  
 application but clause (i) of Sub­ Section 1 of Section 45 of  
 PML   Act   provides   for   what   to   do   by   the   court   when  
 opposition.   In   the   case   on   hand   when   application   is  
 opposed   then   Court   is   under   the   duty   to   follow   that  
 legislative mandate. Now to see that what is the legislative  
 mandate, is to be gathered from words "Court is satisfied  
 that there are reasonable grounds for believing that he is  
 not   guilty   of   such   offence   and   that   he   is   not     likely   to  
 commit   any   offence   while   on   bail."   In   the   case   on   hand  
 thus, what is to be considered while dealing with the bail  
 application   under   the PML   Act or   in   connection   with   the  
 case of bail wherein the PML Act , is such that Court has to  
 satisfy   itself   that   Court   can   enlarge   on   bail   in   a   cases  
 (wherein   there   are   reasonable   grounds   for   believing   that  
 applicants who have applied for bail is not guilty). To show  
 such   as   a   prima   facie   case   that   there   are   reasonable  
 ground  on the basis  of which  such person has  untainted  
 property and therefore prima facie he can not be believed  
 to   be   a   guilty   -   duty   to   show   such   lies   on   accused/  
 applicants. 33. Thus,   when   this   legislative   intention   is   considered  
 for   the   case   on   hand   then   it   reveals   crystal   clear   that  
 burden   lies   on   present   applicants   to   show   that   they   are  
 reasonable   ground   for   believing   that   they   are   not   guilty  
 and  they  are  wrongly  involved  in the  case  on hand.  For  
 this   aspect   there   is   no   submission   before   me.   Moreover,  
 while filing the PMLA case 4 volumes are produced by the  
 prosecution,  what  is the  role of  the  present  applicants  is  
 not submitted at all. It is required to be noted that in any  
 accusation  by the  prosecution  when  there  are  more  than  
 one accused, role of each of the accused will not be same  
 and   role   of   each   of   the   accused   will   be   different.   While  
 enlarging on bail, it is necessary for Court to consider the  
 aspect regarding alleged role of alleged each accused. For  
 this   application   not   a   word   is   submitted   by   learned  
 advocate   for   the   applicants   or   by   learned   advocate  
 Mr.Mishra   who   is   yet   under   suspicious   that   whether   he  
 has assigned a duty to defend this bail application. I took Page 7 of 10 R/CR.MA/2492/2014 ORDER

 this   note   more   particularly   when   the   learned   advocate  
 have   proceeded   before   me   for   the   hearing   without   filing  
 Vakalatnama.   If   the   Vakalatnama   is   required   in   main  
 PMLA Case,  then without even a purshis, how the learned  
 advocate  has  proceeded  is yet not found  understandable  
 within the legal parameters. 34. Moreover, clause (ii) of Sub­section (1) of Section 45 of PML Act connotes that two requirement is to be satisfied.  
 As amongst the same, one requirement is discussed above  
 and   next   requirement   is   "He   is   not   likely   to   commit   any  
 offence  while  on   bail".    This   bail     application   is  filed   by  
 learned   advocate   and   this   learned   advocate   is   duly  
 authorized   by   the   Vakalatnama     Exh.2   but   what   is  
 contemplated  by legislature  is  to have  the  satisfaction  of  
 the   court   with   anything   on   record   even   by   way   of  
 undertaking with the words that "he is not likely to commit  
 any offence while on bail". During the bail the application  
 or   by   the   separate   affidavit   nothing   is   shown   for   this  
 second part of clause (ii) of Sub­ section 1 of Section 45 of  
 PML Act. 35. Thus, foregoing discussion makes me conclusive that  
 Court is under legislative mandate to Section 45 of PML Act  
 and for legislature has intended to have over riding effect  
 to PML   Act over   the   provision   of   Cr.   P.C.,   nothing   is  
 submitted   before   me   that   how   the   applicant   can   be  
 enlarged on bail within the legal parameters as discussed  
 above. 36. However,   the   proviso   to   Clause   (i)   &   Clause   (ii)   of  
 Sub­section (1) of Section 45 of PML Act provides that "in  
 case of a person below the age of 16 years  or in a case of  
 a woman or a person is a sick or infirm, he be released on  
 bail if the  Special  Court  so directs". Looking  towards  the  
 proviso though not submitted by learned advocate for other  
 side,  I find  the  justification  to enlarge  applicant  no. 5 on  
 bail on several conditions and for the rest of the applicants,  
 as per foregoing discussion, I have to follow the legislative  
 mandate  and to pass necessary order as intended by the  
 legislature as discussed above. R/CR.MA/2492/2014 ORDER 37. Moreover, legislative intention of PML Act is not only  
 to punish the accused upon found to be guilty but the prime  
 intention of legislature for enacting the PML Act is to derive  
 the 'proceeds of crime' and to apply the same towards the  
 victims against whom economic offence is committed. While  
 dealing with this aspect how 'proceeds of crime' could be  
 gathered after the applicants to be enlarged on bail, is not  
 submitted before me nor there is a submission before me  
 that   the   case   on   hand   all   the   proceeds   of   crime   are  
 accumulated   and  nothing  has   remained  to   follow  for   the  
 legislative   intention   for   gathering   the   'proceeds   of   crime'.  
 Therefore, in the case  on hand,  in absence  of iota of the  
 words on this count I do not find any merits in granting the  
 bail  to  applicant  no.  1 to  4.  Therefore,  against  them  this  
 application   deserves   to   be   rejected.   However,   necessary  
 conditions   is   to   be   imposed   to   follow   the   legislature  
 intention of Special Statute of PML Act. Hence, I pass the  
 following order." ­:ORDER:­
   This   Criminal   Misc.   Application   No.   87/2014   is   partly  
 allowed   only   in   respect   of   applicant   no.   5   Anilaben   N.  
 Makwana who is mentioned as   accused no. 10 in clause  
 title of Criminal Misc. Application No. 87/2014. For   the   applicant   no.   1   to   4   this   application   is  
 rejected. Application   No.   5   -   Anilaben   N.   Makwana   to   be  
 enlarged   on   bail   upon   execution   of   personal   bond   for  
 Rs.30,000/­ and also for two surety of the like amount and  
 also upon the following conditions. 1.   The   applicant   no.   5/   accused   shall   not   hamper   or  
 tamper with the prosecution evidence and/ or any witness  
 of prosecution. 2.   The   applicant   no.   5/   accused   shall   surrender   her  
 passport, if any to the court at the time of execution of the  
 bail bond. R/CR.MA/2492/2014 ORDER 3.     The   applicant   no.   5/   accused   shall   not   leave   the  
 boundary of the State of Gujarat without prior permission  
 of the Court. 4.   The   applicant   no.   5/   accused   shall   remained   present  
 before the Investigating Officer if her presence is necessary  
 for the investigation purpose. 5. The applicant no. 5 / accused shall produce the list of  
 immovable  and  movable  property  held  in her  name  or in  
 the   name   of   her   brother,   sister,  father  ,  mother,   children  
 and   husband   before   the   Court   within   30   days   from   this  
 order. 6. Applicant  no. 5 shall have to file undertaking that she  
 will   not   dispose   of   any   immovable   property   or   cause   to  
 dispose of any immovable property which is alleged to be a  
 proceeds of crime by prosecution. In case of breach of any of the condition above bail granted  
 to her shall be liable to be cancelled." 4. In   view   of   the   above,   and   considering   the   overall   facts   and 

circumstances   of   the   case,   I   am   in   complete   agreement   with   the 

reasonings given by learned Sessions & Designated Judge, Ahmedabad 

Rural. This application is, therefore, rejected. Rule is discharged. (ANANT S.DAVE, J.) 
/phalguni/ Page 10 of 10