(Judgment of the Court was delivered by A.C.ARUMUGAPERUMAL ADITYAN,J) 
 This appeal has been preferred by the sole accused who was convicted
and sentenced under Section 302 IPC to undergo life Imprisonment and to pay a
fine of Rs.1,000/- in S.C.No.511 of 2002 on the file of Additional Sessions
Judge(Fast Track Court No.IV) Poonamallee. 2. The facts in brief for the purpose of deciding this appeal are as
follows:The accused Seelan @ Jayaseelan is the owner of an Autorickshaw, for
which the driver is the deceased Devadas. Since the said driver Devadas
failed to pay the hire charges properly to the accused, the owner of the said
autorickshaw-the accused got back the possession of the autorickshaw from the
deceased Devadas. Since the autorickshaw was taken from the possession of the 
deceased Devadas, the said Devadas started to disturb the accused from using
the autostand. The deceased Devadas also threatened the accused Seelan @ 
Jayaseelan that he would cause damage to the autorickshaw, since he has failed
to pay the monthly hire charges . Due to this enmity, the accused planned to
do away with the life of the deceased. On the fateful day ie., on 16.4.1999
at about 7.30p.m.,, when P.W.2 and P.W.5 were watching the television at the
Panchayat park, P.W.2 saw the deceased and the accused taking liquor together 
and thereafter P.W.5 left for his house. Meanwhile, P.W.2 saw the accused
attacking the deceased on his face and head with a stick. The deceased fell
down due to the injuries, he had sustained at the hands of the accused and
thereafter, the accused dragged the deceased to the pump shed and dumped
therein. P.W.5, when he returned after half an hour found the deceased lying
dead and the accused was not present near the corpse. Thereupon, P.W.2 went 
and informed the Village President Manohar, about the occurrence. P.W.5
informed P.W.6 and asked him to convey the death of the deceased to P.W.1 and 
accordingly P.W.6 went and informed P.W.1 about the occurrence. The complaint 
was lodged by P.W.1, the brother of the deceased before F1 Avadi Police
Station on 16.4.1999 at about 9.30.p.m., which was received by P.W.12
Inspector of Police and registered a case in Cr.No.401 of 1999 under Section
302 IPC. After registering the case, P.W.12, the Inspector of Police visited
the place of occurrence prepared observation mahazar, rough sketch and
recovered material objects from the scene of occurrence, conducted inquest
before the Panchayatars, arrested the accused on 20.4.1999 at about 6.30 a.m.,
and recorded voluntary confession statement of the accused on the same day in
the presence of P.W.8 and another witness by name Parthiban. On the basis of
the said confession, Ex P14 recovered wooden log, M.O.1 1 under Ex P16 and
also recovered blood stained T.Shirt M.O.12 and blood stained Pant M.O.13
under Ex P.17. The corpse of Devadas was sent for autopsy. P.W.4, the
doctor, who had conducted autopsy on the body of the deceased on 17.4.1999 at 
about 11.45a.m., gave post mortem certificate ExP3. P.W.12 after completing
the investigation has filed charge sheet against the accused under Section 302
IPC on 12.5.1999 before the Judicial Magistrate,No.II, Poonamalle, who took up
the case on file in PRC 17/1999 and on appearance of the accused furnished
copies under Section 207 Cr.P.C. and since the case is triable by Court of
Sessions, he had committed the case to the Court of Sessions under Section 209 
Cr.P.C. 3. Before the Trial Court, P.Ws1 to 12 were marked. Exs P1 to 17 and
M.Os 1 to 13 were marked. When questioned under Section 
313 Cr.P.C., the accused has denied his complicity with the crime.
Ex D1 is the Special report of the Grade I Constable, who had produced the
corpse before the Doctor for post mortem, had recovered the pant and shirt
from the corpse, had filed the special report along with the material objects
collected from the body of the deceased after autopsy. Aggrieved by the
findings of the learned Additional Sessions Judge, the accused has preferred
this appeal. 4. Now the point for determination in this appeal is 1) Whether the prosecution has proved the guilt of the accused under Section 302 IPC beyond any reasonable doubt to warrant conviction? 5. The point: 6. So the sole ocular evidence of P.W.2 is not corroborated with the
medical evidence in this case. Further there is also no strong motive alleged
against the accused to commit the crime because for the non payment of hire
charges for the autorickshaw , the accused had already got back the
autorickshaw. Under such circumstances, we are of the considered view that
the prosecution has not proved the guilt of the accused beyond any reasonable
doubt and the appeal preferred by the accused is liable to be allowed for the
reasons indicated above. Hence, we hold on the point that the prosecution has
failed to prove the case beyond any reasonable doubt against the accused to
warrant conviction and sentence under Section 302 IPC. 7. In the result, the appeal is allowed and the conviction and
sentence imposed on the appellant by the Trial Court under Section 302 IPC is
set aside and the appellant is acquitted . Fine , if any paid, shall be
refunded and the bail bonds executed shall stand cancelled. sg

To 1. The Additional Sessions Judge, F.T.C.No.IV, Poonamallee 2. The District and Sessions Judge, Chenglepet. 3 The Judicial Magistrate No.II, Poonamallee. 3. -do- The Chief Judicial Magistrate ,Chengalpattu 4. The Superintendent , Central Prison, Vellore 6. The Inspector of Police, F1, Avadi Police Station,Avadi,
Chennai(Cr.No.401/99)Veppam Kuppam Police Station 7. The Public Prosecutor, High Court, Madras-104 8. The Director General of Police, Mylapore, Madras 9. The District Collector, Chengalpattu. 