.09.2018 passed by the learned Additional Sessions

 Judge-I- cum- Special Judge, POCSO, Munger in C.R. Case No.

 2861 of 2016, arising out of East Colony P.S. Case No. 48 of

 2016, G.R. No. 1710 of 2016, the appellants have been convicted

 and sentenced as under: 2. Since all the three appeals preferred under Section
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.1306 of 2018 dt. 23-11-2022 3/31 374(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973 arise out of the

 same impugned judgment and order passed by the learned trial

 court, they have been heard together and are being disposed of by

 the present common judgment and order. 3. The victim's name has been concealed in the present

 judgment and she has been referred to as the victim (PW-2) for

 maintaining privacy of her identity to protect her dignity. 4. Victim's father (PW-1) is the informant, on whose

 written report submitted to the Station House Officer, East

 Colony, Jamalpur, the concerned East Colony P.S. Case No. 46 of

 2016 came to be registered on 01.10.2016, disclosing commission

 of an offence punishable under Section 366-A of the Indian Penal

 Code. 5. To begin with, it would be apt to recount the initial

 version of the prosecution's case as unfolded in the written report

 of the informant. The informant (PW 1) alleged in his written

 report that appellant Sudeep Vishwakarma (Criminal Appeal (DB)

 No.1306 of 2018) was engaged as a tutor to teach the informant's

 minor daughter, the victim (PW-2). The appellant was teaching

 her for last three years. Nearly two months prior to the date of

 lodging of the complaint, the appellant Sudeep Vishwakarma had

 attempted to molest her. Upon learning this conduct of Sudeep
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.1306 of 2018 dt. 23-11-2022 4/31 Vishwakarma, he was disengaged from the work of giving private

 tuition to the victim. Despite that Sudeep Vishwakarma used to

 follow the victim. On 28.09.2016 at about 6.40 a.m., by putting

 the victim under threat and by enticing her, he (Sudeep

 Vishwakarma) took the victim to someone's house at a place

 called Mungraura. Thereafter, certain pressure mounted by the

 police, Sudeep Vishwakarma, upon dropping the victim near one

 Path Bhawan School, escaped. In the said occurrence, the father

 of Sudeep Vishwakarma, namely, Parsan Vishwakarma (appellant

 of Criminal Appeal (DB) No. 1218 of 2018) was also involved.

 To avoid ignonimity and public shame, the informant did not

 register any FIR on 28.09.2016. However, Sudeep Vishwakarma

 continued his misdeeds of molesting the victim even thereafter,

 which attempt could be neutralized because of the presence of the

 informant. 6. The victim's statement was subsequently recorded

 during the course of investigation and in the light of the nature of

 accusation made by her, a request was made before the concerned

 Magistrate to add Sections 376, 354-D read with Section 34 of the

 Indian Penal Code and Section 6 of the Prevention of Children

 from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO Act for short). In view of

 addition of these provisions, the case was transferred to the
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.1306 of 2018 dt. 23-11-2022 5/31 learned Special Judge POCSO. Upon completion of investigation

 the police submitted charge-sheet on 30.10.2017 against the

 appellant Sudeep Vishwakarma and his father Parsan

 Vishwakarma for the offences punishable under Sections 366-A,

 376, 354-D read with Section 34 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 6 of the POCSO Act, keeping the investigation as against

 others pending. Cognizance was taken accordingly on

 06.12.2017. Subsequently, the police submitted charge-sheet

 against the appellant Annu Kumar (Criminal Appeal (DB) No.

 1192 of 2018) on 09.07.2018. The trial of appellant Annu Kumar

 was also amalgamated with the trial of other accused persons

 against whom the cognizance was already taken. After framing of

 the charge against Annu Kumar, the appellants were put to trial

 for commission of the offences punishable under Section 366-A , 376 / 34 and 354-D of the IPC and Section 6 of the POCSO Act.

 As the appellants pleaded not guilty, the trial commenced against

 them. 7. At the trial, altogether seven prosecution's witnesses

 were examined including the victim's father (PW- 1), victim's

 mother (PW- 3), the victim (PW- 2), the doctors who had

 examined the victim, both for the purpose of determination of her

 age, and in the background of accusation of rape (PWs- 4 and 7).
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.1306 of 2018 dt. 23-11-2022 6/31 The Investigating Officers were examined as PW- 5 and PW- 6. 8. It is noteworthy that during the course of

 investigation the victim's statement was recorded under Section

 164 of the Cr.P.C., wherein she narrated the conduct of the

 appellant Sudeep Vishwakarma in detail. She deposed that while

 giving tuition to the victim one day he had inappropriately caught

 her hand, reacting to which she had slapped him in the presence

 of her younger brother. Subsequently, she had joined a coaching

 center and one day when she was returning from the said

 coaching center, the appellant Sudeep Vishwakarma stopped his

 bike in front of her and threatened her to make her morphed

 photograph viral and thus would spoil her image and future life.

 He had earlier taken his selfies with the victim and when

 protested quite the appellant Sudeep Vishwakarma had told her

 that it was normal to take the photograph. The appellant Sudeep

 Vishwakarma also told the victim to meet him on Wednesday.

 Since the photograph taken through selfie was with him, she

 became apprehensive and frightened and agreed to meet him. On

 28.09.2016 (Wednesday), when she came out of her school,

 Sudeep Vishwakarma was standing outside. The victim enquired

 from him as to what did he want to say, to which he replied that it

 would not be proper for him to talk in presence of her (victim's)
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.1306 of 2018 dt. 23-11-2022 7/31 friends. He convinced her to come along with him to his friend's

 house. She thereafter went to a house belonging to Sudeep's

 friend at Mungraura. When they reached there, Sudeep's friend

 was present, who subsequently left the room as asked by Sudeep

 Vishwakarma. Sudeep Vishwakarma thereafter expressed to the

 victim his deep love for her and told her that he could not live

 without her. Though the victim told Sudeep Vishwakarma that she

 had to go to school, Sudeep Vishwakarma did not allow her to

 leave and thereafter he took out a dagger and after putting off her

 clothes committed rape upon her. He also took semi-nude

 photographs of the victim with his mobile phone and raped her.

 Soon thereafter, Sudeep Vishwakarma received a call from his

 mother. Responding to his mother's query he replied that he was

 on his way to Bhagalpur with one of his friends. When, in the

 meanwhile, Sudeep Vishwakarma started getting calls from the

 police he rang up his two friends; one whom was the occupant of

 the house and the other whom she did not know. Both of them

 subsequently, came to the place where she was raped. Sudeep

 Vishwakarma sought their advice as to what to do with the victim.

 On their advice, the victim was asked to leave the place and go to

 school and give the school administration an explanation that she

 had gone to purchase 'bio-sheets', in course of which she had
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.1306 of 2018 dt. 23-11-2022 8/31 fainted and was taken to hospital where she was prescribed two

 tablets; one she had consumed and other was to be taken an hour,

 thereafter. Sudeep Vishwakarma thereafter dropped the victim in

 a street near Path Bhawan School which is adjacent to Notre Dam

 School where the victim studied. When she went to school and

 the teacher grilled her about her absence. She offered the same

 explanation as was tutored to her by the appellant Sudeep

 Vishwakarma since she was frightened as he was in possession of

 her photographs. On further interrogation, she explained every

 fact to her teacher in the school. The Principal thereafter called

 the parents of the victim, apparently to tell them as to what had

 happened. 9. Dr. Ravindra Gupta, the Medical Officer and a doctor

 of Medical Board constituted for age assessment of the victim

 (PW-7) proved the age determination done by a Board of doctors

 constituted for the said purpose. The victim's age came to be

 determined as less than 17 years. 10. A lady doctor, who had examined the victim, based

 on clinical and pathological findings reported that rape could not

 be confirmed but instance of intercourse could not be avoided. 11. PW-1, the father of the victim supported the

 prosecution's case. He deposed that while giving tuition, once the
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.1306 of 2018 dt. 23-11-2022 9/31 appellant Sudeep Vishwakarma had caught the victim's hand

 whereafter the victim had slapped him. That being the situation,

 the appellant Sudeep Vishwakarma was disengaged from the

 work of giving tuition to the victim whereafter the victim was put

 in a different coaching center. He supported the prosecution's case

 that one day Sudeep Vishwakarma had taken a selfie with the

 victim and he used to blackmail her by threatening to make her

 morphed photographs viral. He also disclosed that appellant

 Sudeep Vishwakarma had, under threat and enticement taken the

 victim to the house where she was forcibly asked to say 'I love

 you' and subsequently under the threat of making her photographs

 viral, he committed rape on the victim multiple times. From the

 evidence of PW 1, it appears that the learned trial court has noted

 the demeanor of PW-1, who had started crying while deposing

 and only after he was consoled by the court and the learned

 advocates that he regained poise and resumed deposition. In

 response to a query, during the cross-examination, the informant

 stated that he had learnt about the entire occurrence of 28.09.2016

 after it was narrated to him by the victim on 01.10.2016. He

 declined the suggestion of any love-affair between the appellant

 Sudeep Vishwakarma and the victim. 12. PW-2 is the victim herself. She deposed that Sudeep
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.1306 of 2018 dt. 23-11-2022 10/31 Vishwakarma used to give her tuition from Standard-VI and in

 that course, one day he had caught her hand with ill motive. She

 had become infuriated and had slapped him. Thereafter Sudeep

 Vishwakarma was disengaged from teaching the victim, by her

 mother (PW-3). Subsequently, she joined tuition at a coaching

 center viz., NDSC. She further deposed that one day in the

 evening after she was returning from the coaching center, Sudeep

 Vishwakarma came and stopped his motorcycle in front of her.

 She reiterated the facts in her deposition as was narrated by her in

 her statement under Section 164 of the Cr.PC that Sudeep

 Vishwakarma had threatened her of making her photographs viral

 on social media, viz., facebook and whatsapp etc. because of

 which, she had become frightened. Sudeep Vishwakarma had

 asked her to meet him at the school gate on the next day. On the

 next day, when she went to the school, she found him standing on

 the gate on a bike. He disclosed that he wanted to discuss

 something with her. When she enquired as to what did he want to

 tell, he asked her to come to a house one of his friends where he

 would converse with her. She was so frightened that she agreed to

 go with Sudeep Vishwakarma. In the said house, his friend Annu

 [appellant of Criminal appeal (DB) No. 1192 of 2018] was also

 there. Sudeep Vishwakarma and Annu talked with each other for
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.1306 of 2018 dt. 23-11-2022 11/31 sometime and thereafter Annu left the room. Thereafter Sudeep

 Vishwakarma started talking in a weird way and despite the

 victim's plea that she should be dropped at school, he did not buzz

 and started touching her body here and there. At this stage, the

 trial court has noticed the demeanor of the victim of feeling

 uncomfortable and attempting to recover from emotional trauma,

 whereafter she resumed her deposition, while crying. She further

 disclosed that despite her resistance, the appellant Sudeep

 Vishwakarma raped her. She also reiterated that in the meanwhile,

 Sudeep's mother called him on his mobile phone and the police

 had also called him. This made Sudeep Vishwakarma call his

 friends. Two of his friends came and all of them decided to

 release the victim. Sudeep Vishwakarma is said to have told her to

 go to school and tell the people in school that she had gone to

 purchase bio-sheets and in that course she had felt giddiness

 because of which she was taken to the railway hospital. Sudeep

 Vishwakarma thereafter dropped the victim near the school. In the

 school when the 'sisters' asked about the reason for the delay, she

 narrated them the same thing as was suggested to her by Sudeep

 Vishwakarma. She identified Sudeep Vishwakarma and Annu

 Kumar, who were present in the dock. During the course of her

 cross-examination on behalf of appellant Sudeep Vishwakarma
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.1306 of 2018 dt. 23-11-2022 12/31 and Parsan Vishwakarma, she deposed that her date of birth in the

 school admission register was 12.05.2002, which was entered at

 the instance of her father. On the date of occurrence she was

 studying in Class-IX. She also deposed that she had never gone to

 Mungraura earlier. She had shown to her parents the place of

 occurrence on the next day where she was confined for 2½ -3

 hours. There was no injury on her other parts of the body except

 that the skin of her left hand had turned red because of her hand

 having been tightly held by Sudeep Vishwakarma. She also

 deposed that on the date of occurrence, the victim's father had

 informed the police whereafter the police had come in the evening

 next day. She denied the suggestion of false implication of the

 appellant Sudeep Vishwakarma because of certain dispute

 between her father and Sudeep Vishwakarma in relation to

 monetary transaction between them. She denied the suggestion

 that in 2011, father of the victim had taken loan from Sudeep's

 father Parsan Vishwakarma [the appellant of Criminal Appeal

 (DB) No. 1218 of 2018] for which a panchayati was held and

 because of that dispute a false case had been lodged against him.

 She also denied the suggestion that the informant and the

 appellant Sudeep Vishwakarma were on visiting terms since

 2010. Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.1306 of 2018 dt. 23-11-2022 13/31 13. Dr. Manjula Ranai Mandal (PW-4) in her deposition,

 while proving her medical report dated 04.10.2016, deposed in

 her cross-examination that she was not sure as to whether rape

 was committed or not. 14. The Investigating Officer in his deposition proved

 the place of occurrence as was disclosed by the victim. The said

 house belonged to Ayodhya Mandal. Ayodhya Mandal is said to

 have disclosed the police that Annu [appellant of Criminal Appeal

 (DB) No. 1192 of 2018] is son of one Upendra Kumar Chaurasia.

 The Investigating Officer, however, during the cross-examination

 on behalf of Annu Kumar, admitted that the victim had not

 disclosed the name of Annu Kumar in her statement under Section 164 of the Cr.P.C nor, subsequently, during the course of

 investigation. He further deposed that it was enquired from the

 victim as to who was the friend of appellant Sudeep Vishwakarma

 present at the place of occurrence and she had disclosed that his

 name was Annu because his name was taken by Sudeep while

 talking to him at the place of occurrence. He admitted that the

 informant had not stated in his restatement anything about rape or

 sexual assault and, therefore, it was not recorded in the case diary.

 He also deposed that mother of the victim upon enquiry from her

 (the victim) had told the police that no misdeed was committed
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.1306 of 2018 dt. 23-11-2022 14/31 with the victim after having been kidnapped. The clothes of the

 victim were not examined by him and the mother of the victim

 had not shown to him the clothes which the victim was wearing.

 The fact that Sudeep Vishwakarma had caught the victim's hand

 was not stated by her in her restatement but it was recorded in the

 case diary that Sudeep Vishwakarma had attempted to outrage her

 modesty. 15. After the examination of the prosecution's witnesses,

 complying with the requirement under Section 313 of the Cr.P.C.,

 the circumstances emerging based on the evidence of the

 prosecution's witnesses against the appellants were explained to

 them by the learned trial court. They, however, denied all the

 materials which were against them, in their response. 16. The defence thereafter examined four witnesses.

 DW-1 Pradeep Kumar, uncle of the appellant Annu deposed that

 he had an ancestral house at Mungraura in which he was residing

 with his wife and children. The appellant Annu also resided with

 him in the same house and no house of his brother was under 17. Mr. Baxi S.R.P. Sinha, learned Senior Counsel

 appearing on behalf of the appellants assailing the impugned

 judgment and order of the trial court has submitted that it is

 evident from the evidence adduced at the trial that the case in

 hand was maliciously planted in order to digest a sum of Rs. 2

 lakhs which was given by the father of appellant Sudeep

 Vishwakarma to the informant. He has submitted that though the

 alleged date of occurrence constituting offence punishable under
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.1306 of 2018 dt. 23-11-2022 16/31 Section 376 of the IPC is of 28.09.2016 for which the belated FIR

 was registered on 01.10.2016 without any plausible explanation.

 He has argued that though the statement of the victim was

 recorded under Section 164 of the Cr.P.C. on 04.10.2016 itself,

 the said statement was deliberately not brought on record by the

 prosecution which makes the prosecution's case doubtful. He has

 contended that it is apparent from the FIR itself that the appellants

 are said to have allowed the victim to leave the place of

 occurrence under the pressure mounted by the police, which is

 indicative of the fact that the police had information on

 28.09.2016 itself about the occurrence. However, neither any

 Station Diary Entry was made nor an FIR was registered on

 28.09.2016 itself. He has also contended that even the written

 information dated 01.10.2016 does not disclose any allegation of

 rape or of outraging the modesty of the victim. He has further

 contended, referring to the evidence of the prosecution's

 witnesses, that according to the prosecution's case the Principal of

 the school had written a letter to the parents of the victim but the

 said letter, which was written to the parents, was also withheld by

 the prosecution. He contends that the circumstances indicate that

 a tutored version was brought by the victim against the accused

 persons, at the trial. According to him, the place of occurrence has
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.1306 of 2018 dt. 23-11-2022 17/31 not been established or proved by the prosecution. He further

 contends that the first place of occurrence i.e. the house of the

 victim was not inspected by the Investigating Officer. The second

 place of occurrence i.e. near Notre Dam School and third place of

 occurrence i.e. Path Bhawan School have also not been

 established by any independent witness nor did the Investigating

 Officer visit those places during the course of investigation. The

 fourth place of occurrence where the rape is said to have been

 caused has also not been properly investigated and has not been

 duly mentioned by the informant in his written information. He

 has further submitted that non-examination of the witnesses i.e.

 the victim's aunt and her younger brother at the instance of the

 prosecution during the course of trial also casts serious doubt and

 accordingly the appellants are entitled to get benefit of doubt. He

 has submitted that truthfulness and trustworthiness of the

 deposition of the victim becomes doubtful from the evidence of

 the doctor (PW-4) who has ruled out a case of rape and has found

 absolutely no sign of rape or any mark of violence on private part

 of the victim. He has submitted that PW-7, in collusion with the

 prosecution, gave an untrustworthy examination report of the

 victim regarding her age to be less than 17 years. He has further

 argued that the prosecution failed to establish its case that the
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.1306 of 2018 dt. 23-11-2022 18/31 victim was a minor as on the date of occurrence beyond all

 reasonable doubt and for the said reason the impugned judgment

 passed by the trial court recording conviction of the appellants

 deserves interference. He has drawn our attention to the evidence

 of appellants recorded by the court below under Section 313 of

 the Cr.P.C. to submit that such circumstances which were not

 explained to them could not have been taken into account by the

 trial court for recording finding of conviction. He has submitted

 that the trial court has taken into consideration such aspects also

 while recording the finding of conviction which were not

 explained to the appellants in the examination under Section 313 of the Cr.P.C. He has relied on the Supreme Court's decision in

 case of State of U.P. vs. Mohd. Iqram (AIR 2011 SC 2296) and a

 Division Bench decision of this Court in case of Jagat Prasad vs.

 State of Bihar reported in 2022(1) PLJR 568 to bolster his

 contention. 18. Ms. Shashi Bala Verma, learned Additional Public

 Prosecutor representing the State, on the other hand, has

 submitted, with reference to the evidence of PW-7, the doctor that

 the victim as on the date of occurrence was found to be less than

 17 years of her age, based on the ossification test which is

 confirmatory test to determine the age of the victim. She has
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.1306 of 2018 dt. 23-11-2022 19/31 submitted that the chain of events as appearing from the evidence

 of the prosecution's witnesses goes to suggest that the victim, a

 minor, was taken to a house by the appellant Sudeep

 Vishwakarma. The victim in her deposition has clearly narrated

 the instance of sexual assault caused by appellant Sudeep

 Vishwakarma. She contends that considering the minority of a

 female child and the explanation said to have been given by her to

 the Principal of the school for the delay in reaching the school

 would not have required further proof by requiring presence of

 the Principal of the school to depose as a witness at the trial. She

 has submitted that non-examination of the Principal or any

 teacher of the school or non-production of the letter written by the

 Principal of the school to her parents cannot vitiate the finding

 recorded by the trial court. 19. We have carefully perused the impugned judgment

 and order of the trial court, the prosecution's evidence, both oral

 and documentary adduced at the trial. We have also perused the

 evidence of the defence witnesses. We have given our thoughtful

 consideration to the rival submissions made on behalf of the

 appellants. 20. To begin with, we consider it apposite to deal with

 the submission made by learned senior counsel appearing on
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.1306 of 2018 dt. 23-11-2022 20/31 behalf of the appellant on the point of non-compliance of the

 provision under Section 313 of the Cr.P.C. in the light of the

 Supreme Court's decision in case of Mohd. Iqram (supra) and

 the division bench of this Court in case of Jagat Prasad (supra).

 It is pertinent to mention though various grounds have been taken

 on behalf of the appellant in the memo of appeal to assail the

 impugned judgment and order of the trial court, no ground has

 been taken that the appellants were not present during the course

 of examination of the prosecution's witnesses. The prosecution's

 witnesses were cross-examined also by the defence. The

 appellants were thus fully aware of the circumstances emerging

 against them based on the deposition of the prosecution's

 witnesses. On perusal of the examination of the appellant Sudeep

 Vishwakarma under Section 313 of the Cr.P.C., it is easily seen

 that there were four questions were put by the trial court, the first

 being as to whether he had heard the evidence of witnesses. In the

 second question the trial court sought the explanation of the

 appellant Sudeep Vishwakarma in response to the evidence that

 the appellant had molested the victim on 28.09.2016 while giving

 her tuition and that he used to give her tuition. He simply denied

 and did not offer any explanation than simple denial. The trial

 court further asked the appellant Sudeep Vishwakarma to explain
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.1306 of 2018 dt. 23-11-2022 21/31 the circumstance emerging from prosecution's evidence that he

 had intimidated the victim and had threatened her of making her

 photograph viral, on an evening when the victim was returning

 after tuition, because of which the victim had become frightened.

 Thereafter, the appellant had asked her to wait for him at her

 school gate and when she was waiting as per direction the

 appellant Sudeep Vishwakarma took her to his friend's house and

 committed rape on her. The appellant's answer again was

 complete denial and nothing else in the form of explanation to the

 third question. Finally the trial court put a question as to whether

 the appellant had to say something in his defence. The only

 explanation which the appellant Sudeep Vishwakarma offered

 before the trial court was that his father had given the informant a

 sum of rupees 2 lakhs on loan in 2011 and the informant was

 making lame excuses on demands made by his father to repay the

 loan. As father of the appellant Sudeep Vishwakarma mounted

 pressure for return of the loan amount, a false case had been

 lodged, he said. No other explanation was offerred by the

 appellant Sudeep Vishwakarma. 21. In respect of the appellant Parsan Vishwakarma the

 trial court informed him the circumstance based on evidence that

 he had supported the appellant Sudeep Vishwakarma when the
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.1306 of 2018 dt. 23-11-2022 22/31 parents of the victim had complained to him about the incident of

 molestation dated 28.09.2016. In response he denied any

 knowledge of such incident. He further answered that the case

 was instituted because he was repeatedly making demand for

 repayment of the money. 22. In respect of appellant Annu Kumar, the trial court

 told him that there was evidence to the effect that he made

 available his house for the appellant Sudeep Vishwakarma to

 commit sexual assault on the minor victim girl and had left both

 of them in the room which was made available by him. After

 commission of the offence he again came and helped the offender

 escape. While denying the circumstances stated that he did not

 even know the appellant Sudeep Vishwakarma. Further, the house

 where the rape was allegedly committed did not belong to him. 23. On careful reading of the of examination of the

 appellants under Section 313 of the Cr.P.C. by the trial court, we

 are satisfied that the appellants were questioned on circumstances

 which appeared against the appellants so as to enable them to

 explain the circumstances. Further, the appellants were present

 during the course of trial at the time of deposition and the gist of

 the circumstances appearing in the evidence were duly explained

 to them by the trial court with an opportunity to them to make
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.1306 of 2018 dt. 23-11-2022 23/31 statements in their defence. There is thus, no non-compliance of Section 313 of the Cr.P.C., in the given facts and circumstances of

 the present case. In our opinion, therefore, the Supreme Court's

 decison in case of Mohd. Iqram (supra) and Jagat Prasad (supra)

 do not come in aid to the appellants' cases. 24. As noted hereinabove, a submission has been made

 on behalf of the appellants that delay in lodging of the F.I.R. casts

 serious doubt on the prosecution's case. It is true that in a given

 situation delay can raise suspicion on the genuineness of

 implication of an accused. This principle, however, depends on

 the facts and circumstances of each case and cannot be a general

 Rule. When a plea is taken by the defence to doubt the veracity of

 the prosecution's case on the ground of delay in lodging of an

 F.I.R. in cases involving commission of the sexual offences under

 the provisions of Indian Penal Code or under the POCSO Act , the

 Courts are supposed to be more cautious, careful and sensitive in

 scrutinizing evidence keeping in mind the social circumstances

 which have great bearing in such matters. The Courts cannot

 ignore the social reality that if a sexual offence is committed

 constituting an offence punishable under the provisions of POCSO Act , there is normal and natural tendency of the victim's

 family to conceal that occurrence to safeguard interest of the
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.1306 of 2018 dt. 23-11-2022 24/31 family prestige avoid vilification and in the interest of the future

 of the victim, as well. 25. In the present case the witnesses are consistent in

 their deposition that appellant Sudeep Vishwakarma was giving

 tuition to the victim. In his examination under Section 313 of the

 Cr.P.C. he did not furnish any explanation by saying that in fact

 he was not giving her tuition. The occurrence had taken place on

 28.09.2016 the F.I.R. was lodged. Three days thereafter on

 01.10.2016. There is an explanation given in the F.I.R. itself for

 such delay by saying that to avoid ignominy and public shame,

 the F.I.R. was not registered on 28.09.2016. Further as the

 appellant Sudeep Vishwakarma continued with his behaviour

 even after the occurrence on 28.09.2016, the informant had no

 other option than to register the F.I.R.. Possibly, no F.I.R. would

 have been registered despite the occurrence constituting offence

 under the provisions of the POCSO Act had the appellant Sudeep

 Vishwakarma not continued with his misdeeds, if the version of

 the victim's father is to be accepted and analyzed. We accordingly

 rejected the submission advanced on behalf of the appellants that

 the prosecution's case is doubtful because of delay in the

 registration of the F.I.R. 26. Before proceeding to examine and analyze the
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.1306 of 2018 dt. 23-11-2022 25/31 evidence adduced at the trial, we need to notice the provisions

 under Sections 29 and 30 of the POCSO Act which reads as thus:- 1 the informant supported the prosecution's case as against the

 appellant Sudeep Vishwakarma. The place of occurrence of

 28.09.2016 has been duly proved by the Investigating Officer, in

 our view, the evidence of the victim PW-2 appears to be

 creditworthy to the extent that appellant Sudeep Vishwakarma

 had taken her to a room where she was sexually assaulted by him.

 The defence of false implication for non-refund of the loan

 amount by the informant as the reason for lodging a false case of
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.1306 of 2018 dt. 23-11-2022 28/31 rape does not appear plausible. 29. We reiterate that the prosecution proved minority of

 the victim based on medical evidence. The victim in her

 deposition testified that her date of birth in the school admission

 register was 12.05.2002 entered at the instance of her father. As

 on the date of occurrence she was studying in class 9. The

 prosecution thus, established at the trial that the victim was a

 minor. The defence miserably failed to rebut the presumption

 under Section 29 of the Act to the extent the same relates to the

 appellant Sudeep Vishwakarma. Even for a moment it is

 presumed that the victim had accompanied the appellant Sudeep

 Vishwakarma and the narration to the effect that at the point of

 dagger he had committed rape is doubted, she being a minor, an

 offence under Section 6 of the POCSO Act is made out read with Section 5(l) thereof which states that whoever commit penetrative

 sexual assault on the child more than once or repeatedly is said to

 commit aggravated penetrative sexual assault under Section 5 of

 the Act. 30. Situated thus, on careful scrutiny of the evidence of

 the victim PW-2 she appears to be truthful on the point of the

 sexual assault committed by appellant Sudeep Vishwakarma. 31. In such circumstance, we are of the opinion that the
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.1306 of 2018 dt. 23-11-2022 29/31 finding of guilt recorded by the trial court in respect of appellant

 Sudeep Vishwakarma does not require any interference. 32. Coming to the case of appellant Parsan

 Vishwakarma, on close scrutiny of the evidence on record we do

 not find any evidence at all justifying his conviction by the trial

 court. The only evidence concerning him is that he had been

 supporting the appellant Sudeep Vishwakarma when the

 informant had complained to him about the conduct of the

 appellant Sudeep Vishwakarma. The finding of conviction of

 appellant Parsan Vishwakarma, thus, cannot be upheld.

 Accordingly, the finding of the trial court to the extent the same

 relates to conviction of the appellant Parsan Vishwakarma is

 hereby set aside. 33. Coming to the appellant Annu Kumar, we find that

 the only evidence which has come against him is that he had

 provided a room to the appellant Sudeep Vishwakarma and the

 victim and subsequently he had suggested them to leave the place.

 There is no evidence to the effect that the said space was provided

 by him for appellant Sudeep Vishwakarma to commit sexual

 assault on a minor girl. The prosecution failed to make out any

 case of commission of offence punishable under Section 6 of the

 Act based on the evidence adduced at the trial against the
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.1306 of 2018 dt. 23-11-2022 30/31 appellant Annu Kumar. In such view of the matter, he deserves to

 be given benefit of doubt. The prosecution cannot be said to have

 proved against the appellant Annu Kumar of commission of

 offence under Section 6 of the Act. 34. Resultantly, the of Cr. Appeal (DB) No. 1306 of

 2018 (Sudeep Vishwakarma) is dismissed. The conviction

 recorded by the trial court of commission of offence under Section 6 of the POCSO Act and Section 354D of the Indian

 Penal Code is upheld. The imposition of sentence in terms of the

 imprisonment and fine in case of appellant Sudeep Vishwakarma

 stands thus, upheld. 35. The Cr. Appeal (DB) No. 1218 of 2018 (Parsan

 Vishwakarma) is allowed in the absence of any evidence

 justifying his conviction under Section 6 of the POCSO Act. The

 impugned order and judgment of the trial court to the extent it

 relates to Parsan Vishwakarma is hereby set aside. 36. Further, in view of the aforesaid discussions Cr.

 Appeal (DB) No. 1192 of 2018 (Annu Kumar) is allowed. His

 conviction under Section 6 of the POCSO Act is hereby set aside. 37. The appellants of Cr. Appeal (DB) No. 1218

 (Parsan Vishwakarma) and Cr. Appeal (DB) No. 1192 of 2018

 (Annu Kumar) are on bail. They stand discharged of their
 Patna High Court CR. APP (DB) No.1306 of 2018 dt. 23-11-2022 31/31 liabilities of bail bonds and sureties, if any, consequent upon their

 acquittal by the present judgment and order. (Chakradhari Sharan Singh, J)

 (I agree)
 Khatim Reza, J :