( Per : K.K. Sonawane, J.)

1] Rule. Rule made returnable forthwith. The matter is taken up

for final hearing with the consent of parties. ::: Uploaded on - 27/03/2017 ::: Downloaded on - 28/03/2017 01:24:52 ::: {3}
 CRAPLN 4744.16 W 4907.16.odt

2] These applications are filed for seeking relief to quash and set

aside criminal proceedings initiated against the applications by exercising

inherent jurisdiction recognized under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C. Both the

applications pertain to identical relief based on similar facts and

circumstances as well as allegations similar in nature made in the FIR,

bearing Crime No. 102 of 2016, registered against the respective applicants

at Police Station, Jamner, District Jalgaon, for the offence punishable under sections 420 , 406 , 408 , 409 , 120-B, r/w. 34 of IPC . Therefore, we prefer to

hear and adjudicate the matter in issue of both the applications by this

common judicial pronouncement. 3] Facts which led to the prosecution of applicants culled out in

brief, are as under :- The Honourable Apex Court in the matter of Madhavrao Jiwajirao Scindia

vs. Sambhajirao Chandrojirao Angre and others , (1988) 1 SCC 692

observed in para.7 as under : The Honourable Supreme Court in the matter of "State of Haryana Vs.
Bhajanlal"1 has laid down seven categories of cases, by way of illustration,
wherein the High Court can consider the prayer for quashing the FIR, which
are as under :- 10] In the present case, it has been specifically alleged that the

applicants with dishonest intention hatched the criminal conspiracy with the

office bearers of the credit society to commit the offence of criminal breach

of trust and cheating. The applicants with malafide intention

misappropriated the funds of the share holders and depositors entrusted to

the credit society, for their own use and that too in violation of the

guidelines prescribed by the model bye-laws of the urban credit society.

11] At this juncture, it is to be noted that the applicants did not

put in question the factual aspects that they are members of the society and

being members, they availed the loan facilities as alleged in the FIR.

However, the applicants came forward with a specific contention that they

have already repaid the amount to the credit society and discharged the

financial liability. Therefore, they cannot be held responsible for any

misdeeds or irregularities in the affairs of the society. The learned counsel

for the applicants harped on the circumstances that the applicants have

repaid the amount and, therefore, the FIR be quashed.

12] In view of attending circumstances and nature of allegations

nurtured on behalf of prosecution, we are not in agreement with the ::: Uploaded on - 27/03/2017 ::: Downloaded on - 28/03/2017 01:24:52 ::: {14}
 CRAPLN 4744.16 W 4907.16.odt

submissions propounded on behalf of applicants that as they repaid the

entire loan amount, they cannot be blamed for any irregularities or

misconduct in the affairs of the society. In the present case, the

investigation of the impugned FIR is in progress and at a primitive stage.

However, allegations of sanction and disbursement of huge amount of loan in

favour of applicants by ignoring the fetters imposed by the bye-laws of the

society, itself indicates the involvement of the applicants being conspirators

in this crime. The applicants are borrowers, and without their active

connivance and participation, the financial assistance contrary to the

general rules under the bye-laws of the society could not have been

processed further for its disbursement in their favour. The factual aspect as

well as the documents produced on record are sufficient to draw adverse

inference that the applicants are having strong clout and could be

beneficiaries of the loan facility, owing to their nexus and proximity with the

Directors and office bearers of the credit society. 13] The offences alleged in FIR are of serious nature having its impact

on the society and have potential to cause damage to the economic spine of

the country and bring about financial crisis. The offences of such nature are

more serious and not private offence in nature. It has also been delineated

in the matter of State of Maharashtra through CBI Vs. Vikram Anantrai

Doshi and others Criminal Appeal No.2048 of 2014, that the offences

involving banking and loan transactions are the offences of serious nature,

where the FIR can not be quashed only on the ground that the loan is repaid. ::: Uploaded on - 27/03/2017 ::: Downloaded on - 28/03/2017 01:24:52 ::: {15}
 CRAPLN 4744.16 W 4907.16.odt

It is worth to mention that it is not a simple case where the applicants

borrowed the money from credit society for their business purpose and

thereafter repaid it and obtained "No Dues Certificate" from Credit Society

and clamouring that nothing more remained to be done. The factual score

adumbrate the mode and manner in which the funds of credit society were

siphoned off by the applicants in connivance with Directors and office

bearers of the society. The criminal conspiracy of such nature and utilization

of funds of Credit Society contrary to bye-laws is itself a foundation of

criminal liability under the law. In the case of CBI Vs. Jagjit Singh reported in 2013 DGLS (Soft) 675 Their Lordship of Supreme Court in

paragraph No. 15 elucidated as under : Obviously, offence relating to banking activities are hazardous to

the public interest and well being of society. In such nature of offence

relating to banking, the customers/depositors of the Credit Society are not

only the victim of the crime but society in general is sufferer. The social

interest would be on peril and prosecution cannot be treated as party alien

to the entire aspect of the matter. Therefore, the factum of repayment of

loan would not itself adversely affect the prosecution.

14] We would reiterate that at this juncture, the investigation is in

progress and, therefore, in view of the guidelines delineated in Indar Mohan

Goswami 's case referred supra, it would be unjust and improper to give

prima facie findings as to essential ingredients of the offence of criminal

conspiracy are fulfilled or not. But, the facts and circumstances available on

record, if taken at their face value sufficiently indicate the commission of

criminal conspiracy. The agreement for accomplishment of an illegal act

itself constitute an offence. Therefore, merely because the applicants repaid

the entire loan amount and no loss is caused to the credit society, would not

enough to exonerate the applicants from the criminal liability. The refund of

loan amount cannot be an effective substitution for a criminal prosecution

when the disputed act is itself an offence under law. ::: Uploaded on - 27/03/2017 ::: Downloaded on - 28/03/2017 01:24:52 ::: {17}
 CRAPLN 4744.16 W 4907.16.odt

15] The learned counsel for the applicants laid much more

emphasis on the provisions of Section 82 of the Maharashtra Cooperative

Societies Act, in regard to rectification of error/defects in the accounts

pointed out by the Government Auditor, i.e. first informant - Shri Atrawalkar.

He submitted that in case defects are cured there would not be any penal

action against the applicants. It is true that Maharashtra Cooperative

Societies Act, 1960 is a self contained code. There cannot be any controversy

about the rectification of defects in the accounts by availing the remedy

under Section 82 of the Maharashtra Cooperative Societies Act by the office

bearers of the credit society. But, in the matter in hand, the allegations

made against the applicants can not be considered as a defect in the

accounts. But, the applicants, in connivance with the Directors and office

bearers, with a dishonest intention siphoned off the fund of society contrary

to the provisions of the bye-laws. It would not be a mere defect but an

serious financial offence under the criminal law. The applicants are the

beneficiaries, who procured the finance without entitlement. They are

equally responsible with the office bearers and Directors of the Credit

Society for the offence of Criminal Breach of Trust and Cheating as well as

defrauding the members and depositors of the Credit Society. Therefore,

the provisions of section 82 of the Maharashtra Cooperative Societies Act,

1960 would not render any assistance to absolve the applicants from the

criminal liability as alleged against the them. The applicants cannot use the

provisions of Maharashtra Co-operative Societies Act, 1960 as a shield to

evade the prosecution under IPC in the case. The account holders and ::: Uploaded on - 27/03/2017 ::: Downloaded on - 28/03/2017 01:24:52 ::: {18}
 CRAPLN 4744.16 W 4907.16.odt

depositors used to keep their hard earned money in the hands of strangers of

Credit Society. But the borrowers like applicants, now a days, are utilizing

the banking institution for making money over and above the money of the

depositors. 16] We reiterate that, without active participation and indulgence of

the applicant, there would not have been any misdeeds or misappropriation

of funds of the credit society to disburse it in favour of applicants for their

business purpose. In case, at this initial stage of investigation, if the

applicants are exonerated from the criminal liability on the ground that they

have repaid the loan amount, it may result in cynical disregard of law, which

would have its impact on the society and people may lose faith from the

judicial system. We are of the opinion that the investigating agency should

avail the freedom to go into the whole gamut of the allegation to find out

the truth to book the culprits of the crime. In such circumstances, we are

not inclined to nod in favour of applicants to exercise the inherent powers

under Section 482 of Cr.P.C. to quash and set aside the FIR.

17] We are of the opinion that there are circumstances on record,

prima facie, to draw an inference that the applicants have an involvement in

the crime being conspirators and without their active participation there

would not have been any financial aid for their business, contrary to the bye-

laws of the society and by defying the rules. The financial misdeeds on the

part of applicant borrower, with the help of the Directors and office bearers

cannot be overlooked in view of the seriousness of allegations of social ::: Uploaded on - 27/03/2017 ::: Downloaded on - 28/03/2017 01:24:52 ::: {19}
 CRAPLN 4744.16 W 4907.16.odt

wrong and it has a grave impact on the society. We do not find any

substantial reason to cause any interference in the FIR at this primitive stage

by exercising the inherent powers under section 482 of Cr.P.C. The

applications being devoid of merits deserve to be dismissed. In sequel, both

the applications stand rejected. Rule is discharged.