% 06.10.2023 1. The petition concerns relocation of a garbage dump located
 proximate to a petrol pump station of the petitioner. 2. By order dated 11.09.2019, the Court noted the contention of the
 petitioner that location of the garbage dump right outside the petrol pump
 is hazardous, particularly in view of the fact that the fuel tanks are located
 immediately underground. The Court further noted that the garbage dump
 has been upgraded in order to enable the segregation of waste at the
 garbage dump, prior to being sent to the landfill, and directed as follows: "3. Considering that both the petrol pump and the garbage dump are W.P.(C) 292/2018 Page 1 of 3 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 09/10/2023 at 22:21:11
 public amenities which are essential for the residents of the area, it is
 considered appropriate to direct the Chief Executive Officer of the
 Board to, in association with the Petitioner and IOCL, identify an
 alternate place for the garbage dump. Considering the nature of the
 issue involved, the Petitioner and IOCL would be required to bear the
 expenses for construction of the garbage dump at any alternate site
 which is less risky for the residents of the area. 4. Let a meeting be held in the office of the Chief Executive Officer of
 the Board on 25th September, 2019 at 11.00 am. A representative of
 the Petitioner and a representative of IOCL, who would be competent
 to take a decision, shall attend the said meeting in order to identify a
 site for the garbage dump and to decide the reasonable expenses that
 have to be borne for the same. The parties are permitted to inspect the
 surrounding area in order to identify an alternate place for the
 garbage dump, not very far from the current location." 3. By order dated 25.05.2023, the Chief Executive Officer of Delhi
 Cantonment Board ["DCB"] was directed to convene a further meeting
 for this purpose. The meeting was held on 14.06.2023 and minutes have
 been placed on record by DCB. It appears that representatives of the
 DCB, the petitioner, Public Works Department ["PWD"], the Army and
 Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. were present. However, the agencies were
 unable to arrive at any solution. Two alternative locations were suggested
 by the petitioner's representative, both of which were rejected with the
 following observations: 4. All other agencies also took the position that they had no land for
 relocation of the garbage dump. 5. Before me today, learned counsel for DCB and PWD both submit
 that the other has land which can be earmarked for this purpose. It is
 directed that the duly authorised senior representatives of DCB and PWD
 will attempt to resolve the issue and file a further affidavit within four
 weeks from today. The affidavit to be filed by PWD will also explain
 what are the other purposes for which the site proposed by the petitioner-
 near the subway Naraina and the public toilet near pond, Naraina- cannot
 be provided for relocation of the Waste Transfer Point. The authorities
 will also deal with the contents of CM APPL. 51728/2023, filed by the
 petitioner, in their affidavits. 6. List on 01.02.2024. PRATEEK JALAN, J
 OCTOBER 6, 2023
 "Bhupi"/ W.P.(C) 292/2018 Page 3 of 3 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 09/10/2023 at 22:21:12