Mr. E. P. Bharucha, Senior Advocate for the Appellants. Mr. Kumar Desai, Advocate with Ms. Harshada Nagare, Advocate for the Respondent.

CORAM : Justice N. K. Sodhi, Presiding Officer
 Samar Ray, Member
 P. K. Malhotra, Member

Per : Justice N. K. Sodhi, Presiding Officer

 This case also arises out of the Initial Public Offerings (IPO) scam that was

unearthed by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (hereinafter called the Board) in

the year 2005-06. The short question that arises for our consideration is whether the

appellants acted as financiers in the scam. 2. Before we deal with the facts of the case, let us briefly state (shorn of the details

not necessary) how the scam/fraud was perpetrated. On receipt of information regarding

alleged abuse and misuse of the IPO allotment process, the Board initiated a probe.

During preliminary analysis of the buying, selling and dealing in the shares allotted

through IPOs of various companies during the years 2003-05, it transpired that certain

entities opened many demat accounts in fictitious/benami names and these entities

cornered/acquired the shares of those companies allotted in the IPOs by making large

number of applications of small value so as to make them eligible for allotment under the

retail category. The strategy adopted was that subsequent to the receipt of IPO allotment,

these fictitious/benami allottees transferred the shares to their principals called the key

operators who controlled their accounts and who, in turn, transferred most of the shares to

the financiers who had originally made available funds for executing the game plan. In 2 view of the booming market, the key operators in some cases and the financiers in most

of the cases then sold most of the shares on the first day of listing or soon thereafter

thereby making a windfall gain of the price difference between the issue price and the

listing/sale price. The appellants are alleged to have played the role of financiers by

financing some of the transactions of two key operators namely, Mr. Purushotam

Budhwani and M/s. Sugandh Estates and Investment Pvt. Ltd. referred to hereinafter as

Budhwani and Sugandh respectively. 3. The two appellants before us are husband and wife and they are both practicing

chartered accountants by profession. The Board issued to them a show cause notice

dated November 28, 2008 under Sections 11 and 11B of the Securities and Exchange

Board of India Act, 1992 (for short the Act) alleging that they provided finance to

Budhwani and Sugandh, the key operators to enable them to apply for shares in the retail

category of ten IPOs namely, ILFS, IDFC, Sasken Communications, FCS Software,

Gateway Distripark, Provogue, MSP Steel, Nectar Life Sciences, Shoppers Stop and

Suzlon Energy. It was further alleged that these two key operators acted in concert with

the appellants in cornering shares in the aforesaid IPOs that were meant for the retail

investors and on allotment, quite a few of them were transferred to the demat accounts of

the appellants. It is also the case of the Board that Budhwani and Sugandh transferred to

the appellants the refund amounts as well received by them from the issuer companies. It

is in this manner that the appellants are alleged to have employed fraudulent, deceptive

and manipulative practices thereby violating Section 12 A of the Act and Regulations 3

and 4(1) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and

Unfair Trade Practices relating to Securities Markets) Regulations, 2003 (for short the

Regulations). The appellants are also said to have made an unlawful gain of `

4,94,19,379/- and they were called upon to show cause why action be not taken against

them for the aforesaid violations and why they should not be asked to disgorge the

amount of illegal gains made by them. 4. The appellants filed a detailed reply dated May 7, 2009 denying the allegations.

Even though the reply runs into 60 pages, most of the pleas taken therein are not of any

substance and the only theme that runs through the reply is that the appellants had simply

lent money to Budhwani and Sugandh and that they had not colluded with either of them 3 to exploit the IPO allotment process in any manner. The appellants have also pleaded

that the mere act of providing finance for investing in different IPOs is neither illegal nor

prohibited by any law and that they did no wrong in loaning the amount to the key

operators. The precise stand taken by them in their reply is as under: It is also the case of the appellants that "loans were given to SEIPL and PB in the

ordinary course on well recognized commercial terms and the said borrowers deployed

the same in the manner deemed appropriate by the said borrowers at their sole risks, costs

and consequences". The appellants admit that they accepted a part of their loan

repayment by transfer of shares but deny that they were involved in any attempt to corner

the shares meant for retail investors or that they were privy to or involved in any scam as

alleged by the Board. 5. On a consideration of the material available on the record, the reply furnished by

the appellants and after affording to them a personal hearing, the whole time member of

the Board by his order of July 21, 2009 did not accept the plea of the appellants that they

had lent money to Budhwani and Sugandh or that they were not involved in cornering of

shares in different IPOs that were meant for retail investors. The whole time member

found that the appellants had manipulated the IPO allotment process by providing finance

to Budhwani and Sugandh, the two key operators who with that money made applications

in large numbers through fictitious/benami accounts to corner the shares meant for the

retail investors. He further found that by doing this, the appellants had not only cornered

shares but had also deprived the retail investors of their legitimate right of allotment of

shares in different IPOs and that the shares received by the appellants from the two key

operators were not by way of return of loan as claimed by them but the same had been

received in pursuance to a prior understanding between them. He, therefore, concluded

that the appellants had employed fraudulent, deceptive and manipulative process to

corner the shares and thereby violated Section 12 A of the Act and Regulations 3 and 4 4(1) of the Regulations. He also found that the appellants made an unlawful gain of

` 4,05,61,579 to the detriment of the retail investors. In view of these findings the

appellants have been prohibited from buying, selling or dealing in securities or from

accessing the securities market in any manner whether directly or indirectly for a period

of 45 days in addition to the period during which they remained out of the market

pursuant to the interim order passed by the Board. The appellants have also been directed

to disgorge the unlawful gain of ` 4.05 crores (rounded off) made by them together with

interest of ` 1.95 crores thereon. It is against this order of the whole time member that the

present appeal has been filed. 6. We have heard the learned senior counsel on behalf of the appellants and Mr.

Kumar Desai Advocate on behalf of the Board and are of the view that the appeal

deserves to be dismissed. From the rival stands of the parties as noticed above, what we

need to decide is whether the appellants had lent money to the two key operators on a

principal to principal basis as claimed by them or is it that the appellants financed all the

applications filed through the key operators to corner the shares in the retail category. If

the appellants had merely lent the money to the key operators without being a party to the

game plan of cornering shares in the IPOs, then they are right in contending that they did

no wrong but if they were instrumental in getting the applications filed through the key

operators by giving finance to them, then obviously it were the appellants who were

cornering the shares through a manipulative process as found by the Board. Let us see

which of the two versions is correct. 7. The fact that the appellants had provided funds to Budhwani and Sugandh which

funds they utilised for making large number of applications in the retail category for the

allotment of shares in different IPOs is not in dispute. The details of the funds provided

by the appellants to the two key operators for different IPOs, the number of applications

filed by them and the shares allotted in those IPOs alongwith other necessary information

including the refunds received are contained in Table A which has been relied upon in

paragraph 5 of the impugned order. This table which has not been disputed by the

appellants is reproduced hereunder for facility of reference: A bare perusal of the chart leaves no room for doubt that the relationship between the

appellants and the two key operators was not one of lender and borrower as claimed by

the former. The amounts shown in column 3 of the chart were provided by the

appellants. The chart clearly shows that the two key operators made large number of

applications for the allotment of shares in different IPOs and the refunds received by

them from the issuer companies were being returned to the appellants. If the money had

been lent on a principal to principal basis as is the case of the appellants, then the refunds

should not have been returned to the appellants and only the principal amount needed to

be returned alongwith interest. It is interesting to note that the entire amount which came

by way of refund was not returned to the appellants and only a part thereof was returned

and a major portion was retained by the key operators as roll over money which was used

for making applications for the next IPO that was to follow shortly. To illustrate, in the

case of IPO of ILFS, the key operators received a refund of ` 5,22,31,250 because the

number of shares allotted were less than those applied for. Instead of returning this entire

amount, the key operators returned to the appellants only a sum of ` 46,31,250 and

retained ` 4.76 crores with them which was the exact amount required by them for

making applications in the next IPO of IDFC that was coming out within a few days.

This, according to Budhwani against whom separate action has been taken, was done "As

per mutual understanding of profit sharing, shares were to be transferred to Mr. Dushyant

Dalal, a financier. However, as per his advice, a part of his shares were transferred". It

was on the basis of this understanding between the appellants and the key operators that

on allotment of 62,500 shares in the IPO of ILFS, the latter transferred only 19,650

shares. We also notice that in the case of all the ten IPOs, the appellants had provided the

exact amount that was required for making the requisite number of applications instead of

a round figure which would have been the case had these been ordinary loan transactions.

Be that as it may, it is the appellants' own case that they advanced loans to the key

operators without executing any document(s) or taking any security. The appellants in

their written submissions filed on the conclusion of the hearing have clearly stated that

"THERE IS NO NEXUS BETWEEN THE APPELLANTS AND PB OR SUGANDH". They have given detailed reasons in paragraph 19 of their submissions as to why there is

no nexus between them. Assuming this to be so, (though we are holding to the contrary)

we wonder how such large sums of money could be given on loan without any

documentation or security to persons with whom the appellants had no nexus. To say the

least, this is most incredible and we are not willing to accept this argument. Besides the

mere ipse dixit of the appellants, there is no material on the record to show that they

advanced loans to the two key operators. Since the appellants had provided funds to

them, the onus to establish that those were given as loans only as money lending

transactions was on the appellants and they have miserably failed to discharge the same.

We also cannot lose sight of the fact that both the appellants are practicing chartered

accountants by profession and are not money lenders. We also have on record the stand

taken by Budhwani in one of his replies to the Board that there was a prior understanding

between the appellants and the two key operators for profit sharing on the basis of which

part of the cornered shares were transferred to the appellants. For all these reasons we

cannot but hold that the appellants did not advance any loan to the key operators and that

it was their money that was being used for making applications for cornering shares in

different IPOs in the retail category and that they were the beneficial owners of those

shares. We are satisfied that the two key operators were none other than the front entities

for the appellants. The role that the appellants have played in the scam is by providing

finance to the key operators and that they were acting in concert with each other for

cornering shares. In this view of the matter, we answer the question formulated in the

opening part of this order in the affirmative and hold that the appellants dealt in securities

in a fraudulent manner and indulged in unfair trade practices in securities and thereby

violated Section 12 A of the Act and Regulations 3 and 4(1) of the Regulations. The

findings recorded by the whole time member in this regard are affirmed. 8. The appellants manipulated the IPO allotment process and cornered large number

of shares in the retail category which they subsequently sold in the market on their listing

or soon thereafter and made huge profits. It is not in dispute that during the financial

years 2003-05 the market was booming and the price of the shares on their listing was

way higher than the issue price. In the show cause notice issued to the appellants they 8 had been called upon to show cause why they should not be directed to disgorge a sum of

` 4,94,19,379 which, according to the Board, represented the unlawful gain made by the

appellants on the sale of the shares. This amount of illegal gains has been worked out on

the basis of the difference between the sale price and the issue price. The data in this

regard was furnished to the appellants in the show cause notice and the same has been

compiled in a tabular form (Table B) in the impugned order. On an objection being

raised by the appellants that the cost of acquisition of some of the IDFC shares at the rate

of ` 34 per share had not been deducted from the profits made by the appellants, a sum of

` 88,57,800 was reduced from the ill-gotten gains made by them. The whole time

member has directed the appellants to disgorge a sum of ` 4.05 crores (a round figure) on

account of the ill-gotten gains made by them. In addition, he has also directed them to

pay ` 1.95 crores as interest on the aforesaid amount which has been calculated at the rate

of 12 per cent per annum. The learned senior counsel for the appellants strenuously

challenged this part of the order by contending that the Board has no power to direct any

delinquent to disgorge the ill-gotten gains made by him. The argument is that there is no

provision in the Act which gives such a power to the Board and in the absence of a

specific provision, a direction to disgorge could not be issued. He also challenged the

calculations made by the whole time member in the impugned order regarding the

notional profit on the unsold shares and argued that no direction for disgorgement could

be issued on unrealised gains. The learned senior counsel also very strenuously

challenged the direction regarding the payment of interest on the amount sought to be

disgorged. 9. The question whether the Board has the power to direct a delinquent to disgorge

the ill-gotten gains made by his unlawful acts came up for the consideration of this

Tribunal in Karvy Stock Broking Ltd. Vs. Securities and Exchange Board of India

Appeal no.6 of 2007 decided on May 2, 2008 and this is what was held: A similar view was taken by this Tribunal in Dhaval Mehta vs. Securities and Exchange

Board of India Appeal no. 155 of 2008 decided on September 8, 2009 which was also a

case that had arisen out of the IPO scam. Since disgorgement is not a punishment but

only a monetary equitable remedy meant to prevent a wrong doer from unjustly enriching

himself as a result of his illegal conduct, we are of the view that there need be no specific

provision in the Act in this regard and this power to order disgorgement inheres in the

Board. We cannot, therefore, agree with the learned senior counsel that the Board had no

power to issue a direction for disgorgement. The next argument of the learned senior

counsel is that the Board was in error in taking into account the unrealized gains for the

shares which are still being held by the appellants and the said amount should be omitted

for calculating the gains. It is true that the appellants did not sell all the shares that were

cornered by them through the key operators and that some of them are still lying in their

demat accounts. The whole time member in the impugned order has worked out the

notional gain with reference to the closing price of the shares on the first day of listing

and deducted the issue price therefrom. As at present advised, we can think of no better

way of calculating the notional gain made by the appellants. Even if there is a better

method of calculating the notional gains, we do not think that the method adopted by the

whole time member is in any way arbitrary or unfair calling for our interference. Surely

the appellants cornered the shares through illegal means and they cannot be heard to say

that notional profits should not be worked out merely because they continue to hold some

of them. They cannot be allowed to unjustly enrich themselves. We, therefore, reject

this argument of the appellants as well. 10. Now we come to the direction by which the appellants have been directed to pay

interest on the disgorged amount. We are unable to agree with the learned senior counsel

for the appellants that in the absence of any provision in the Act, the Board could not

direct payment of interest on the disgorged amount. It is true that the provisions of Section 34 of the Code of Civil Procedure have not been specifically made applicable to

the proceedings under the Act but the principles underlying this provision which are

based upon justice, equity and good conscience would certainly authorise the Board to

also grant appropriate interest having regard to the circumstances of the case.

Undoubtedly, the appellants made huge profits through their illegal acts and have used

the money since then. They must pay interest. Taking note of the reprehensible conduct

of the appellants in cornering shares through devious means whereby they deprived the

genuine retail investors of their rightful claim and also having regard to the general rate

of interest at which loans are advanced by commercial banks, we do not think that the

rate of 12 per cent as fixed by the whole time member is excessive by any standard. We

are further of the view that it was not necessary for the Board to mention in the show

cause notice that the appellants would also be liable to pay interest once they are ordered

to disgorge the ill-gotten gains. The question of payment of interest is a matter of

discretion which, in the facts of this case, has been judiciously exercised. In the result, the appeal fails and the same stands dismissed leaving the parties to

bear their own costs. Sd/- Justice N. K. Sodhi
 Presiding Officer

 Sd/- Samar Ray
 Member

 Sd/- P. K. Malhotra
 Member

12.11.2010
Prepared and compared by
RHN