2025:HHC:12445

 IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH, SHIMLA

 Cr. MP(M) No. 375 of 2025
 Reserved on: 25.04.2025
 Date of Decision: 05.05.2025. Hon'ble Mr Justice Rakesh Kainthla, Judge.
 Whether approved for reporting?1 No.

 For the Petitioner : Mr. Vijender Katoch, Advocate.
 For the Respondent : Mr. Ajit Sharma, Deputy Advocate
 General. Rakesh Kainthla, Judge

 The petitioner has filed the present petition for

 seeking regular bail. It has been asserted that the petitioner was

 arrested vide FIR No. 126 of 2023, dated 27.7.2023, for the

 commission of an offence punishable under Section 22 of

 Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (in short

 'ND& PS Act ), registered at Police Station Nagrota Bagwan,

 District Kangra, H.P. It was asserted that as per the prosecution

 case, the police party apprehended the petitioner with a bag 1 Whether reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the judgment? Yes. 2 containing 1160 capsules of Puroxowin Spas. The petitioner is

innocent, and he was falsely implicated. The investigation is

complete, and a charge sheet has been filed before the Court.

One case under the ND& PS Act was registered against the

petitioner. More than one year and six months have elapsed, and

the trial has not commenced. The petitioner would abide by the

terms and conditions which the Court may impose. Hence the

petition. 2. The petition is opposed by filing a status report

asserting that the police party was on patrolling duty on

27.7.2023. They found one person in a suspicious condition near

the Sunehar Bridge. He got frightened after seeing the police and

started running away. He threw the backpack in the bushes

while running. Police apprehended him, and he identified

himself as Sumit Khajuria (the present petitioner). The police

checked the backpack in the presence of an independent witness

and recovered 1160 capsules. The police seized the capsules and

arrested the petitioner. Capsules were sent to FSL. The report of

analysis shows that the total weight of capsules was 627.560

grams, and the total weight of powder was 438 grams. The

capsules of Proxyvon contained Tramadol. FIR No. 32 of 2022 3 was registered against the petitioner in Police Station

Hiranagar, District Kathua, for the commission of offences

punishable under Sections 21 and 22 of the ND& PS Act . The

matter is now fixed for recording the statements of prosecution

witnesses on 4.8.2025. 3. I have heard Mr. Vijender Katoch, learned counsel for

the petitioner and Mr. Ajit Sharma, learned Additional Advocate

General, for the respondent-State. 4. Mr. Vijender Katoch, learned counsel for the

petitioner, submitted that the petitioner is innocent and he was

falsely implicated. The trial has not commenced for the last one

and a half years, and the right to a speedy trial of the petitioner

is being violated. Hence, he prayed that the present petition be

allowed and the petitioner be released on bail. He relied upon the

judgments of MD Tjiur Rahman @ Tajiur Rahman Vs. State of West

Bengal, Special Leave to Appeal (Crl.) No. 12225 of 2024, Tilak Raj

Vs. State of H.P. 2025:HHC:2996) and Mohan Kumar and another

Vs. State of H.P., Cr.MP(M) Nos. 586 and 816 of 2022, in support of

his submission. 5. Mr. Ajit Sharma, learned Deputy Advocate General,

for the respondent-State, submitted that the matter is now

listed for recording of prosecution witnesses on 4.8.2025 and

6.8.2025. The quantity of the capsules found in possession of the

petitioner was commercial, and the petitioner cannot be

released on bail unless he satisfies the twin conditions laid down

under Section 37 of the ND& PS Act . Therefore, he prayed that

the present petition be dismissed. 6. I have given considerable thought to the submissions

made at the bar and have gone through the records carefully. 7. The parameters for granting bail were considered by

the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Ramratan v. State of M.P. , 2024 SCC

OnLine SC 3068, wherein it was observed as follows: - (Emphasis supplied) 8. The present petition has to be decided as per the

parameters laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court. 9. The status report shows that the petitioner was

found in possession of 1160 capsules of Puroxowin Spas

containing Tramadol. The report of the analysis shows that the

weight of powder was 508.80 mg and the total weight of the

capsules was 627.560 grams, which is a commercial quantity;

therefore, the rigours of Section 37 of the ND& PS Act apply to

the present case. 10. Section 37 of the ND& PS Act provides that in an

offence involving commercial quantity, the Court should be

satisfied that the accused is not guilty of the commission of an

offence and is not likely to commit any offence while on bail. Section 37 of the NDPS Act reads as follows: 11. This Section was interpreted by the Hon'ble Supreme

Court in Union of India Versus Niyazuddin & Another (2018) 13 SCC 8 738, and it was held that in the absence of the satisfaction that

the accused is not guilty of an offence and he is not likely to

commit an offence while on bail, he cannot be released. It was

observed: 8. The accusation in the present case is about the fourth
 factor, namely, commercial quantity. Be that as it may,
 once the Public Prosecutor opposes the application for
 bail to a person accused of the enumerated offences under Section 37 of the NDPS Act, in case the court proposes to
 grant bail to such a person, two conditions are to be
 mandatorily satisfied in addition to the normal
 requirements under the provisions of the Cr.P.C . or any
 other enactment. 12. This position was reiterated in State of Kerala Versus

Rajesh, AIR 2020 SC 721, wherein it was held: economic consequences and health hazards
 which would accompany trafficking illegally
 in dangerous drugs, the court should
 implement the law in the spirit with which
 Parliament, after due deliberation, has
 amended." 20. The scheme of Section 37 reveals that the exercise of
power to grant bail is not only subject to the limitations
contained under Section 439 of the CrPC but is also
subject to the limitation placed by Section 37 , which
commences with the non-obstante clause. The operative
part of the said section is in the negative form,
prescribing the enlargement of bail to any person accused
of the commission of an offence under the Act unless two
conditions are satisfied. The first condition is that the
prosecution must be given an opportunity to oppose the
application, and the second is that the Court must be
satisfied that there are reasonable grounds for believing
that he is not guilty of such an offence. If either of these 11 two conditions is not satisfied, the ban on granting bail
 operates. 21. The expression "reasonable grounds" means
 something more than prima facie grounds. It
 contemplates substantial probable causes for believing
 that the accused is not guilty of the alleged offence. The
 reasonable belief contemplated in the provision requires
 the existence of such facts and circumstances as are
 sufficient in themselves to justify satisfaction that the
 accused is not guilty of the alleged offence. In the case on
 hand, the High Court seems to have completely
 overlooked the underlying object of Section 37 that in
 addition to the limitations provided under the CrPC , or
 any other law for the time being in force, regulating the
 grant of bail, its liberal approach in the matter of bail
 under the NDPS Act is indeed uncalled for." 13. A similar view was taken in Union of India v. Mohd.

Nawaz Khan , (2021) 10 SCC 100: (2021) 3 SCC (Cri) 721: 2021 SCC

OnLine SC 1237 wherein it was observed at page 110: 22. The standard prescribed for the grant of bail is
 "reasonable ground to believe" that the person
 is not guilty of the offence. Interpreting the standard of
 "reasonable grounds to believe", a two-judge Bench of
 this Court in Shiv Shanker Kesari [Union of India v. Shiv 12 Shanker Kesari , (2007) 7 SCC 798: (2007) 3 SCC (Cri) 505],
held that : (SCC pp. 801-02, paras 7-8 & 10-11)
 "7. The expression used in Section 37(1)(b)(ii) is
 "reasonable grounds". The expression means
 something more than prima facie grounds. It connotes
 substantial probable causes for believing that the
 accused is not guilty of the offence charged, and this
 reasonable belief contemplated, in turn, points to the
 existence of such facts and circumstances as are
 sufficient in themselves to justify the recording of
 satisfaction that the accused is not guilty of the offence
 charged. 8. The word "reasonable" has in law the prima facie
 meaning of reasonable regarding those
 circumstances of which the actor, called on to act
 reasonably, knows or ought to know. It is difficult
 to give an exact definition of the word
 "reasonable". '7. ... Stroud's Judicial Dictionary, 4th Edn., p. 2258
 states that it would be unreasonable to expect an
 exact definition of the word "reasonable". Reason
 varies in its conclusions according to the
 idiosyncrasy of the individual and the times and
 circumstances in which he thinks. The reasoning
 which built up the old scholastic logic sounds now
 like the jingling of a child's toy.'
 [See MCD v. Jagan Nath Ashok Kumar [MCD v. Jagan
 Nath Ashok Kumar, (1987) 4 SCC 497], SCC p. 504,
 para 7 and Gujarat Water Supply & Sewerage
 Board v. Unique Erectors (Gujarat) (P) Ltd. [Gujarat
 Water Supply & Sewerage Board v. Unique Erectors
 (Gujarat) (P) Ltd., (1989) 1 SCC 532] ]
 *** 10. The word "reasonable" signifies "in accordance
 with reason". In the ultimate analysis, it is a
 question of fact whether a particular act is
 reasonable or not, depends on the circumstances in 13 a given situation. (See Municipal Corpn. of Greater
 Mumbai v. Kamla Mills Ltd. [Municipal Corpn. of
 Greater Mumbai v. Kamla Mills Ltd. (2003) 6 SCC 315] 11. The court, while considering the application for
 bail with reference to Section 37 of the Act, is not
 called upon to record a finding of not guilty. It is for
 the limited purpose, essentially confined to the
 question of releasing the accused on bail, that the
 court is called upon to see if there are reasonable
 grounds for believing that the accused is not guilty
 and records its satisfaction about the existence of
 such grounds. But the court has not to consider the
 matter as if it is pronouncing a judgment of
 acquittal and recording a finding of not guilty." (emphasis supplied) 23. Based on the above precedent, the test which the High
 Court and this Court are required to apply while granting
 bail is whether there are reasonable grounds to believe
 that the accused has not committed an offence and
 whether he is likely to commit any offence while on bail.
 Given the seriousness of offences punishable under the NDPS Act and in order to curb the menace of drug
 trafficking in the country, stringent parameters for the
 grant of bail under the NDPS Act have been prescribed." 14. It was held in Union of India v. Ajay Kumar Singh , 2023

SCC OnLine SC 346, that the bail cannot be granted without

complying with the requirements of Section 37 of the NDPS Act.

It was observed: and (ii) the court is satisfied that there are reasonable
 grounds for believing that he is not guilty of such an
 offence and that he is not likely to commit any such
 offence while on bail. 15. For the sake of convenience Section 37(1) is
 reproduced hereinbelow:-- 16. In view of the above provisions, it is implicit that no
 person accused of an offence involving trade in a
 commercial quantity of narcotics is liable to be released
 on bail unless the court is satisfied that there are
 reasonable grounds for believing that he is not guilty of
 such an offence and that he is not likely to commit any
 offence while on bail. 15. It was held in State of Meghalaya v. Lalrintluanga

Sailo, 2024 SCC OnLine SC 1751, that the grant of bail without 15 considering Section 37 of the NDPS Act is impermissible. It was

observed: 6. While considering the cases under the NDPS Act , one
 cannot be oblivious of the objects and reasons for
 bringing the said enactment after repealing the then
 existing laws relating to Narcotic drugs. The object and
 reasons given in the acts itself reads thus:-- In the decision in Collector of Customs, New
 Delhi v. Ahmadalieva Nodira (2004) 3 SCC 549, the three-
 judge bench of this Court considered the provisions under Section 37(1)(b) as also 37(1)(b)(ii) of the NDPS Act , with
 regard to the expression "reasonable grounds" used
 therein. This Court held that it means something more
 than the prima facie grounds and that it contemplates
 substantial and probable causes for believing that the 16 accused is not guilty of the alleged offence. Furthermore,
it was held that the reasonable belief contemplated in the
provision would require the existence of such facts and
circumstances as are sufficient in themselves to justify
satisfaction that the accused is not guilty of the alleged
offence. As relates to the twin conditions under Section 37(1)(b) (ii) of the NDPS Act , viz., that, firstly, there are
reasonable grounds for believing that the accused is not
guilty of such offence and, secondly, he is not likely to
commit any offence while on bail it was held therein that
they are cumulative and not alternative. Satisfaction of
the existence of those twin conditions had to be based on
the 'reasonable grounds', as referred to above . 7. In the decision in State of Kerala v. Rajesh (2020) 12 SCC
122, after reiterating the broad parameters laid down by this Court to be followed while considering a bail
application moved by an accused involved in offences
under the NDPS Act , in paragraph 18 thereof this Court
held that the scheme of Section 37 of the NDPS Act would
reveal that the exercise of power to grant bail in such
cases is not only subject to the limitations contained
under Section 439 of the Code of Criminal Procedure but
also subject to the limitation placed by Section 37(1)(b) (ii), NDPS Act . Further, it was held that in case one of the
two conditions thereunder is not satisfied, the ban for
granting bail would operate. 8. Thus, the provisions under Section 37(1)(b)(ii) of
the NDPS Act and the decisions referred supra reveal the
consistent view of this Court that while considering the
bail application made by an accused involved in an offence
under NDPS Act a liberal approach ignoring the mandate
under Section 37 of the NDPS Act is impermissible.
Recording a finding mandated under Section 37 of
the NDPS Act, which is a sine qua non for granting bail to
an accused under the NDPS Act , cannot be avoided while
passing orders on such applications.". 16. In the present case, there is sufficient material on

record to show the involvement of the petitioner in the

commission of the crime. 17. There is no material on record to show that the

petitioner would not commit a similar offence in case of his

release on bail. Therefore, the twin conditions laid down in Section 37 of the NDPS Act are not satisfied in the present case. 18. It was submitted that there is delay in the progress of

the trial as the trial has not started within one and a half years,

and the petitioner is entitled to bail. There is no dispute with the

principle of law that the accused cannot be kept behind the bars

indefinitely, hoping for an early conclusion of the trial. In the

present case, the copies of order sheets show that the matter

could not be taken up for hearing as the learned Presiding

Officer was transferred. An act of the Court will not prejudice

any person, therefore, no advantage can be derived from this

fact by the accused or the prosecution. The order sheets also

show that the matter has been listed for recording the

prosecution evidence from 4.8.2025 to 6.8.2025. The fact that

the matter has been listed on three consecutive days shows the 18 concern of the learned Presiding Officer to expeditiously try the

case, and it cannot be said that the petitioner is entitled to bail

on the ground of delay in trial. 19. In the judgments cited on behalf of the petitioner,

the Court had found that there was a delay which was

attributable to the prosecution. In the present case, the delay is

not attributable to the prosecution but to the transfer of the

learned Presiding Officer. Therefore, no advantage can be

derived from the judgments cited on behalf of the petitioner. 20. The status report also shows that the FIR was

registered against the petitioner for the commission of a similar

offence earlier, which means that the petitioner has criminal

antecedents. This Court exhaustively dealt with the relevance of

criminal antecedents in Aminodin vs State of H.P. 2024: HHC: 6091

and held, after referring to various judgments, that a Judge must

consider the criminal antecedents of the accused, the nature of

such offences and his general conduct while considering the bail

petition. The bail should not be generally granted to an accused

having criminal antecedents when there is a likelihood of the

commission of the crime. 21. It was held in V. Senthil Balaji v. Enforcement

Directorate , 2024 SCC OnLine SC 2626, that where the petitioner

can become a threat to society because of his criminal

antecedents, he should not be released on bail. It was observed: 22. Similarly, it was held in Union of India v.

Barakathullah , 2024 SCC OnLine SC 1019, that where the persons

were involved in the commission of an offence, similar offences,

they should not be released on bail. It was observed: - 23. In the present case, the registration of the FIR

against the petitioner under the ND& PS Act shows that the

possibility of the petitioner committing the crime after his 20 release on bail cannot be ruled out. Therefore, the petitioner is

not entitled to bail on this consideration as well. 24. Reliance was placed upon the judgment of Coordinate

Bench in Tilak Raj (supra), wherein it was held that in case of

long incarceration the past criminal antecedents cannot be the

sole basis for denying the bail, however, in the cited case, the

delay was attributable to the prosecution which is not the case

here; and the cited judgment is inapplicable to the facts of the

case. 25. In view of the above, the petitioner is not entitled to

bail, hence, the present petition fails, and the same is dismissed.

However, the petitioner is at liberty to approach the Court in

case the trial is not concluded within a reasonable time. 26. The observation made herein before shall remain

confined to the disposal of the instant petition and will have no

bearing, whatsoever, on the merits of the case. (Rakesh Kainthla)
 Judge
 5th May, 2025
 (Chander)