No. 6 (annexed in a separate sheet with this order) who was

 brought before the Court along with other private respondents

 in terms of the order of this Court in police custody, it has

 become crystal clear that the present case is a consequence of

 the unfortunate circumstance of a ponzi scheme having gone

 wild for which micro depositors have lost their entire funds. The

 writ petitioner apparently was an agent of one such giant ponzi

 scheme operator. These giant operators on funds of poor

 depositors live a sybaritic lives until they are brought before

 Court and thereafter they engage the best lawyers and normally

 get themselves transferred into, plushy nursing homes and 2 hospital after their arrest. They leave the agents like the poor

writ petitioner and their victims who have been duped through

such unscrupulous tactics to face the slings and arrows of

outrageous fortune. What order can this Court pass in these circumstances?

 I cannot pass a continuing mandamus for ensuring that

the writ petitioner is allowed to use panchayat road or

prohibiting the private respondents from interfering with the

right to enter into the village or a further continuing mandamus

asking the police to accompany the writ petitioner every day

when she goes into her village. Even if this had been a suit for

mandatory injunction against the private respondents such

continuous mandatory injunction could not have been granted. However, the cooperation of the local police is

appreciated and the private respondent Nos. 4 to 7 are

discharged from custody and free to leave the Court. It is

expected that the private respondents, who come from the same

strata of economic despair as the writ petitioner, must

remember that the only persons who have been benefitted by

this ponzi scheme are not the hapless agents like Aparna 3 Mondal or helpless victims like them; but a few rich men who

with the aid of others, rich and powerful have treated the lowest

strata of society as their hunting grounds. 'Flow my tears'

Justice said. Now, there is already a Bench constituted for hearing

ponzi matters where the writ petitioner who is an agent of such

entity can get some relief in the manner which would safeguard

the interest of the depositors. The writ petition is thus disposed of without any order

as to costs relegating the writ petitioner to the said remedy

before the Hon'ble Division Bench if so advised in accordance

with law. (Protik Prakash Banerjee, J.)