(Per Sarang V. Kotwal, J.)

 The Petitioner has approached this Court for various reliefs.
The main relief claimed by the Petitioner is for quashing and setting
aside of the Look-Out Circular (for short, 'LOC') issued against him.
There are other consequential prayers made in the Petition. 2. The Respondent No.1 is the Union of India, the Respondent
No.2 is the Bureau of Immigration, Ministry of Home Affairs,
Government of India, the Respondent No.3 is the Serious Fraud 1 / 24 2 WP-3058-21.odt

Investigation Office and the Respondent No.4 is the State of
Maharashtra. 3. The case of the Petitioner is that he is a Non-Resident
Indian citizen holding Indian Passport which was valid till 2 nd May
2028. The Petitioner is a resident of Hongkong where he was residing
with his wife and two daughters for the past nine years. He is the
Managing Director of Chaitya Private Limited, which is a Company
incorporated in Hongkong and which deals in the trade of diamonds
and other precious stones. The Petitioner and his family were
scheduled to travel from New Delhi to Hongkong on 10 th September
2020 from New Delhi - Indira Gandhi International Airport. While
the Petitioner was in the process of boarding the flight, he was denied
permission to go past the immigration check. The Immigration
Officer put a stamp "cancelled without prejudice" on the passport of
the Petitioner and did not permit him to travel. The Petitioner was
detained at the Airport. On the next day i.e. on 11 th September 2020
he was served with a summons issued from the office of the
Respondent No.3 directing him to appear in person in their Mumbai
Zonal Office on 11th September 2020 i.e. on the same day on which
the summons was served upon him. The Petitioner was prevented
from travelling abroad because LOC was issued against him by the
Respondent No.3. 4. According to the Petitioner, he appeared before the Mumbai
Zonal Office of the Respondent No.3 in compliance with the 2 / 24 3 WP-3058-21.odt

summons issued. The Respondent No.3 was investigating into the
affairs of M/s. Gitanjali Gems Limited under Section 212(1)(c), (d) of
the Companies Act, 2013 . 5. On 11th September 2020 another summons was issued
calling upon the Petitioner to appear in person before the office of the
Respondent No.3 on 18th September 2020. On this occasion also the
Petitioner duly attended and according to him he fully co-operated
with the investigation. According to the Petitioner, he had purchased
the shares of M/s. Gitanjali Gems Limited. One Mr. Mehul Choksi
was one of its Directors against whom criminal proceedings were
initiated by the Respondent No.3 and other investigating agencies.
According to the Petitioner, he was a bonafide investor who had
purchased 68,02,896 convertible warrants of M/s. Gitanjali Gems
Limited worth Rs.49,25,71,553/- between January 2015 and August
2016. Those warrants were converted into equity shares on 5 th
October 2015 and 9th August 2016. They were sold between the
period of 28th November 2017 to 26th December 2017 for total sale
consideration of Rs.50,51,42,923/-. These transactions were
conducted through the banking channels. The Petitioner has stated
that the money used for purchasing the shares belonged to the
Petitioner and it had nothing to do with Mr. Mehul Choksi. 6. Apart from these two summonses, the Respondent No.3 had
sent emails dated 12th March 2019 and 3rd December 2019 to the
Petitioner calling upon him to furnish the documents in relation to his 3 / 24 4 WP-3058-21.odt

Companies. It is his case that he has provided all the details available
with him and had submitted the same to the Respondent No.3.
Through another email dated 22nd February 2021, the Respondent
No.3 called for more documents from the Petitioner. On this occasion
also the Petitioner furnished the necessary documents. It is his case
that after 22nd February 2021, the Petitioner has not received any
communication from the Respondent No.3. He was never called for
any questioning after 22nd February 2021. Thus, according to the
Petitioner, inspite of his full co-operation in the enquiry; he is
prevented from travelling abroad because of the existence of LOC
against him. 7. The Petitioner made a representation to the Respondent
No.3 dated 3rd August 2021 seeking information regarding issuance of
the LOC, copies of the same and requesting the Respondent No.3 to
permit him to travel abroad and to Hongkong to attend to his business
and to fulfill his duties towards his family. However, no response is
received by him. The Petitioner thereafter has approached this Court
with the present Petition. It is his case that he is being victimized on
the basis of false and malicious charges. The action on the part of the
authorities is in violation of Articles 14 , 19 and 21 of the Constitution
of India. His business and family are suffering because of his absence
from Hongkong. His business activities and the banking transactions
are adversely affected because of his continuous stay in India. Apart
from these factual aspects, the Petitioner has raised grounds regarding 4 / 24 5 WP-3058-21.odt

the necessity and procedure for issuing LOCs. According to the
Petitioner, his case is not covered by any of the contingencies on which
the LOCs could be issued. It is submitted in the Petition that the
action on the part of the Respondents was illegal, arbitrary and unfair
in curtailing the personal liberty of the Petitioner. In this background,
apart from the main relief of quashing of the LOC, the Petitioner has
sought other consequential reliefs. He has sought declaration that
issuance of the LOC was highly arbitrary, illegal and without authority
of law and was in violation of Articles 14 , 19 and 21 of the
Constitution of India. Through another prayer, the Petitioner is
seeking declaration that the action on the part of the Respondent No.2
in issuing an endorsement of "cancelled without prejudice" on the
passport of the Petitioner be declared as arbitrary, illegal and without
authority and violating the same Articles of the Constitution of India.
He is also seeking directions to the Respondent No.2 to permit the
Petitioner to travel abroad. The Petitioner has also prayed for
awarding costs. 8. The Petition is opposed by the Respondents. An affidavit-
in-reply on behalf of the Respondent No.3 affirmed by the Assistant
Director working with the Serious Fraud Investigation Office,
Mumbai is filed. It is stated in the affidavit-in-reply that the Ministry
of Corporate Affairs, Government of India, in exercise of its powers
under Sections 210 and 212 of the Companies Act, 2013 vide Order F.
No.3/106/2018-CL-II(WR) dated 17th February 2018 assigned the 5 / 24 6 WP-3058-21.odt

investigation into the affairs of M/s. Gitanjali Gems Limited and 106
other companies and seven limited liability concerns to the Serious
Fraud Investigation Office. According to the Respondent No.3, the
investigation carried out had revealed that Mr. Mehul Choksi was the
Promoter and a Director of Gitanjali Group of Companies. He has
caused huge wrongful loss to the public exchequer in connivance with
his trusted employees and bank officials. He had incorporated a web
of companies in India and Overseas and had managed to get issued
unauthorized letter of undertaking in favour of the entities under their
control. The investigation has revealed that the Punjab National Bank
had reported a fraud amounting to Rs.7,080.86 Crores in respect of
entities under control of Mr. Mehul Choksi. The entities controlled
by Mr. Mehul Choksi were enjoying a credit exposure from a
consortium of 32 banks and these banks have reported outstanding
balance with respect to those entities to the tune of Rs.5,099.74
Crores as on 31st December 2017. The total fraud amount was likely
to exceed approximately Rs.12,100/- Crores in respect of the entities
controlled by Mr. Mehul Choksi. The investigation has revealed that
as on date of filing of the affidavit, Mr. Mehul Choksi and Mr, Nirav
Modi have collectively defaulted the amount of Rs.20,600/- crores to
the Banks. It was huge misappropriation of public money. 9. As far as the Petitioner is concerned, according to the
Respondent No.3, he was knowing Mr. Mehul Choksi for many years.
The funds from Mr. Mehul Choksi were taken on loan by the 6 / 24 7 WP-3058-21.odt

Petitioner and they were used by him to acquire 5.74% share holding
in M/s. Gitanjali Gems Limited. His share holding was sold just
before Mehul Choksi fled the country. It is the case of the Respondent
No.3 that the Petitioner has not co-operated with the investigation
and has failed to provide required documents pertaining to his
overseas entities. It is specifically contended in the affidavit that the
Petitioner is an NRI. He has substantial business interest in
Hongkong and other foreign countries. Thus, he has ample
connections abroad and, therefore, the possibility that he could evade
the course of investigation and that he was at flight risk, was not ruled
out. Though his statement was recorded under oath by the Inspector
under Section 217 of the Companies Act, 2013 on 25 th August 2020,
he has not cooperated in the investigating and had attempted to
conceal the relevant information pertaining to the investigation. It is
contended by the Respondent No.3 that the action of issuance of
LOC was not taken in a casual manner. The investigation in the affairs
of the Company and the investigation had started in February 2018.
The LOC was not issued immediately but was issued only after
examining the information and evidence collected during the
investigation and upon examination of the role of the Petitioner. In
this background, the Petition was strongly opposed by the
Respondents. 10. We have heard Shri Aabad Ponda, the learned Senior
Counsel for the Petitioner, Shri S.H. Halwasia, the learned Additional 7 / 24 8 WP-3058-21.odt

PP for Respondent Nos.1, 2 and 3 and Shri J.P. Yagnik, the learned
APP for Respondent No.4-State. All the parties made their
submissions with reference to various judgments and guidelines in
respect of issuance of LOC. Submissions on behalf of the Petitioner: 11. Shri Ponda, the learned Senior Counsel for the Petitioner
made various submissions. He submitted that the LOC should not be
issued if a person was attending and has co-operated with the
investigation. The Petitioner had appeared before the Respondent
No.3 even before 25th August 2020 and had co-operated with the
investigation. The first summons issued by the Serious Fraud
Investigation Office was dated 12th March 2019. The Petitioner had
supplied the information by email and had also supplied hard copies.
In February 2020, he returned to India and had joined the
investigation on 25th August 2020, 1st September 2020, 11th
September 2020 and 18th September 2020. He had also submitted
the documents from time to time. The Petitioner could not submit
the documents which were not in his possession, otherwise, he had
fully co-operated. The last time he was directed to remain present was
on 18th September 2020. Thereafter he was never called. The LOC
was pending for more than a year and yet he was called only on a few
occasions. That means, his presence for investigation purposes is not
really required. The Petitioner was not an accused in any case and he
was not evading his arrest. Therefore, issuance of LOC which was a 8 / 24 9 WP-3058-21.odt

coercive proceeding; should not have been resorted to. 12. Shri Ponda submitted that several persons who are made
accused during investigation or during Court proceedings; can go
abroad but the Petitioner who is not even an accused has to wait
endlessly. This is arbitrary and malafide exercise of powers on the part
of the Respondent No.3. 13. Shri Ponda submitted that the Petitioner had invested in
M/s. Gitanjali Gems Limited and had sold his shares making a very
small profit. He submitted that there was no connection between his
investments and Mr. Mehul Choksi. The Petitioner had invested his
own money and just because only a small profit was made, it cannot be
assumed that the Petitioner was not a genuine investor. 14. Shri Ponda submitted that the Petitioner has deep roots in
Mumbai. His parents reside in Mumbai. He has immovable properties
in Mumbai and Gujarat. The Petitioner was willing to surrender the
passports of his parents to show his bonafides that he would return to
India if permitted to travel abroad. The Petitioner had nothing to do
with the bank frauds allegedly committed by the Company of
Mr.Mehul Choksi and by other beneficiaries. The other investigating
agencies have not named him as an accused in any of their
investigations. 15. On legal issues regarding the LOC, Shri Ponda submitted
that the LOC cannot operate endlessly and as per the Guidelines, its 9 / 24 10 WP-3058-21.odt

operation had come to an end after one year from its issuance.
According to Shri Ponda if there is any change in policy during
pendency of the LOC, even by this change of policy, the pending LOC
cannot be extended for a further period as it was issued under the
earlier Guidelines. As per the Guidelines, the satisfaction of the
authorities should be in respect of his activities in future which could
be detrimental to the financial interest of the country and not in
respect of his past activities. 16. Shri Ponda submitted that the grounds raised in the
affidavit-in-reply filed by the Respondent cannot justify issuance of
the LOC against the Petitioner. Shri Ponda relied on various
judgments in support of his contentions. He relied on the following
judgments. His submissions with reference to these judgments are
referred to in the following paragraphs. 17. Shri Halwasia strongly opposed this Petition with reference
to the affidavit-in-reply, on factual aspects as well as on the legality of
the impugned LOC. He submitted that the Serious Fraud
Investigation Office is established under the Companies Act, 2013 .
These are special provisions and the special procedure provided under
that Act is entirely different from the investigation under the Code of
Criminal Procedure . The experts in different fields are taken on the
Board because the matters investigated under those Sections are
complex matters requiring expertise in different fields. Because of
complexity of the transactions and enormity of the offence, the time
required for investigation is much longer. There is total non-
cooperation from the persons involved and it is difficult to trace the
modalities and roots of the offence. 18. Shri Halwasia submitted that the Petitioner claimed to be a
businessman and yet he had invested almost Rs.50 Crores for a long
period only for a meager profit of 2%. This itself is unbelievable. Shri
Halwasia strongly submitted that the investigation has revealed that it
was the money of the absconding accused Mr. Mehul Choksi who has
left the country. The money was routed through different countries
through different means and it was necessary to find out how it was
done exactly. However, the Petitioner was not answering the key
6 2021 SCC OnLine Del 2587 11 / 24 12 WP-3058-21.odt

questions and there was total non co-operation on his part. He relied
on the affidavit filed by Respondent No.3 and in particular referred to
paragraphs-6 and 7 thereof. The contents of these paragraphs are
already referred hereinabove. He also relied on the averments in the
affidavit-in-reply wherein it was stated that the Petitioner was an NRI,
he has substantial business interest in Hongkong and other foreign
countries and the possibility of the Petitioner evading the course of
investigation and being at flight risk could not be ruled out. 19. Shri Halwasia submitted that the Look Out Circular was
issued on 8th September 2020. It was renewed on 2nd September 2021
by virtue of the Guidelines issued in February 2021 in that behalf. He
submitted that it is a policy matter and cannot be equated with the
change in the statute as far as the extension of LOC is concerned.
There was nothing illegal or wrong in extending the LOC which was
already existing. Reasoning : 20. Before considering the facts of this case it is necessary to
refer to certain provisions under the statute and to the Guidelines
issued in respect of the Look Out Circulars. Chapter XIV of the
Companies Act, 2013 (for short, "said Act") makes provisions for
inspection, inquiry and investigation in respect of the affairs of a
company. Section 210 provides the circumstances under which the
Central Government can order investigation into the affairs of the 12 / 24 13 WP-3058-21.odt

company. Section 211 of the said Act provides for establishment of
Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFIO), which the Central
Government is empowered to establish under this Section and which
consists of persons of ability, integrity and experience in banking,
corporate affairs, taxation, forensic audit, capital market, information
technology, law or such other fields as can be prescribed. Sub-section
(2) of Section 212 of the said Act is important, which reads thus : . Sub-section (3) thereof provides that the investigation shall
be conducted following the procedure provided under the said
Chapter XIV and that the SFIO has to submit its report to the Central
Government within such period as is specified in the order. On
completion of the investigation, the SFIO is required to submit the
investigation report to the Central Government and on receipt of such 13 / 24 14 WP-3058-21.odt

report, the Central Government may direct the SFIO to initiate
prosecution against the company, its officers, employees or any other
person directly or indirectly connected with the affairs of the company. 21. Thus, Shri Halwasia is right in his submissions that special
procedure is prescribed and special powers are conferred on the
authorities conducting investigation under these Sections of the
Companies Act, 2013 . The SFIO consists of various experts on
different subjects. The investigation entrusted to the SFIO on many
occasions involves complex questions and, therefore, the entire process
takes longer time than other investigations under the Cr.P.C .. In the
present case, the SFIO is investigating into the affairs of M/s. Gitanjali
Gems Limited and other group companies involving huge amount
which is employed and deployed through various means and through
various routes. Therefore, naturally the SFIO is required to be given
sufficient time and opportunity to unearth the illegal affairs of these
companies. 22. In this context it cannot be said that the Petitioner has
absolutely no connection with the investigation which is being
conducted by the SFIO. It cannot be mere a co-incidence that within
a short span of time of the Petitioner selling his share holding, Mr.
Mehul Choksi had left the country. It is case of the SFIO that the
money used by the Petitioner actually belonged to Mr. Mehul Choksi
and it was routed through different countries. The Petitioner has to
explain these allegations and for that he has to fully co-operate with 14 / 24 15 WP-3058-21.odt

the investigation. It is a specific case of the Respondents that the
Petitioner has not co-operated with the investigation. Merely
attending the office of the SFIO will not mean that the Petitioner has
fully co-operated with the investigation. 23. Shri Ponda in support of his arguments has relied on various
judgments, as mentioned earlier. Sumer Singh Salkan 's case (supra)
was one of such judgments. The Delhi High Court in that case had
considered the questions which were referred to that Court in respect
of LOC. The said judgment refers to the concerned circular being
Ministry of Home Affairs Circular No.15022/13/78-F.1 dated 5 th
September 1979. The LOCs could be issued at the behest of different
agencies in accordance with this circular either to monitor the
arrival/departure the foreigners or Indians or to restrict
arrival/departure of foreigners or Indians. The LOCs were based on
the originator's request to send communication to various
immigrations, check posts on the basis of substantive/procedure laws
in respect of persons wanted in some cases. The Ministry of Home
Affairs' Office Memorandum dated 27th December 2000 required that
a request for opening of LOC must be issued with an approval of the
officers of certain ranks. After discussing other judgments, the Delhi
High Court answered the reference as follows: " The questions raised in the reference are
 as under: "A. What are the categories of cases in which
 the investigating agency can seek recourse 15 / 24 16 WP-3058-21.odt

 of Look-out-Circular and under what
 circumstances? B. What procedure is required to be followed
 by the investigating agency opening a Look- out-Circular? C. What is the remedy available to the person
 against whom such Look-out-Circular has
 been opened? D. What is the role of the concerned Court
 when such a case is brought it and under
 what circumstances, the subordinate courts
 can intervene? The questions are answered as under: A. Recourse to LOC can be taken by
 investigating agency in cognizable offences
 under IPC or other penal laws, where the
 accused was deliberately evading arrest or not
 appearing in the trial court despite NBWs
 and other coercive measures and there was
 likelihood of the accused leaving the country
 to evade trial/arrest. B. The Investigating Officer shall make a
 written request for LOC to the officer as
 notified by the circular of Ministry of Home
 Affairs, giving details & reasons for seeking
 LOC. The competent officer alone shall give
 directions for opening LOC by passing an
 order in this respect. C. The person against whom LOC is issued
 must join investigation by appearing I.O. or
 should surrender the court concerned or
 should satisfy the court that LOC was
 wrongly issued against him. He may also
 approach the officer who ordered issuance of
 LOC & explain that LOC was wrongly issued 16 / 24 17 WP-3058-21.odt

 against him. LOC can be withdrawn by the
 authority that issued and can also be
 rescinded by the trial court where case is
 pending or having jurisdiction over
 concerned police station on an application by
 the person concerned. D. LOC is a coercive measure to make a person
 surrender to the investigating agency or
 Court of law. The subordinate court's
 jurisdiction in affirming or cancelling LOC is
 commensurate with the jurisdiction of
 cancellation of NBWs or affirming NBWs." 24. Based on these Guidelines, the Foreigners Division of
Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India issued Office
Memorandum No.25016/31/2010-Imm. dated 27th October 2010
incorporating these issues. The Guidelines were subsequently
modified by further memorandums dated 5th December 2017, 19th
September 2018, 12th October 2018 and finally on 22 nd February
2021. The Guidelines issued in the year 2010 were referred to in the
cases of Karti P. Chidambaram (supra) and Om Prakash Bhatt (supra). 25. In Karti P. Chidambaram' s case (supra), a Division Bench of
the High Court of Madras has observed that issuance of the LOC was
a coercive measure to make a person surrender before the investigating
agency or Court of law. 26. In Om Prakash Bhatt 's case (supra), the Guidelines dated 5th
December 2017 were discussed. In the facts and circumstances of the 17 / 24 18 WP-3058-21.odt

case before a Division Bench of this Court, it was observed that the
Petitioner therein was not arraigned as accused for cognizable offence.
It was not even the case of the Respondents therein that if the
Petitioner therein was permitted to leave the country it would be
detrimental to the sovereignty, security or integrity of India or bilateral
relations with any country and that it was not their case that any
amounts were to be recovered from the Petitioner therein who was a
former Chairman of the State Bank of India. In those circumstances,
that petitioner was permitted to travel abroad. . Shri Ponda has relied heavily on these two judgments. 27. In Deept Aggarwal''s case (supra), it was observed that
though a LOC could be issued even in cases not covered by the
Guidelines and in economic interest of India, no such case had been
made out against the Petitioner in that case. It was not explained how
the travel of the Petitioner in that case would in any manner prejudice
the economic interest of the country. With these observations, the
LOC was quashed and set aside. 28. A Division Bench of this Court in Afzal Jaffer Khan's case
(supra) had observed that though an apprehension was expressed that
the petitioner would abscond and never return to India, there was
absolutely no material in support of that apprehension and hence he
was permitted to travel abroad. 29. In Brij Kathuria 's case (supra), the Delhi High Court had 18 / 24 19 WP-3058-21.odt

observed that there was no criminal case pending against the
Petitioner in that case . The phrases such as "economic interest" and
"larger public interest" cannot be extended in a manner so as to
include an Independent Director who was in the past associated with
the company being investigated. It was observed that the Petitioner
posed no flight risk because his wife and children were residents of
Delhi. On that basis, the Petitioner therein was permitted to travel
abroad. 30. All these judgments and submissions of Shri Ponda will have
to be looked in the background of the Office Memorandum dated
22nd February 2021. The relevant important clauses in those
Guidelines are as follows: [In these Guidelines, BoI means Bureau of Immigration. Clause (B)
has given list of about 15 Authorities who can make request under
Clause (L)] 31. Shri Ponda had submitted that the LOC could be issued on
the apprehension of future conduct of the person concerned and not
on the basis of his past activities. We are unable to agree with this 20 / 24 21 WP-3058-21.odt

contention as the Guidelines give no such indication. It is but obvious
that the entire procedure is initiated on the basis of the past activities
of the concerned person against whom the LOC is issued. 32. In the present case the SFIO is investigating into the affairs
of the aforementioned companies and its investigation overrides the
investigations by other investigating agencies. Therefore recourse to
LOC was not unfounded as the Petitioner has definite connection
with the investigation as discussed hereinabove. From the facts of the
case it is clear that Clause (L) of these Guidelines clearly covers the
Petitioner's case as it is detrimental to the "economic interests of India" 33. The next question that arises for consideration is as to
whether the original LOC issued against the Petitioner stands
continued beyond its life of one year. Shri Ponda submitted that as
per the existing Guidelines, on the day on which the LOC was issued
it could be issued only for one year and thereafter it had to lapse
automatically. Shri Halwasia countered this argument by submitting
that LOC was issued on 8th September 2020 and while it was pending
fresh Guidelines were issued in February 2021 which gives powers to
the authorities to extend the life of the LOC, pursuant to which it was
renewed on 2nd September 2021 for one year. Clause (J) of the
Guidelines dated 22nd February 2021, reproduced hereinabove,
mentions that no LOC shall be deleted automatically and it shall
remain in force unless and until a deletion request was received from
the Originator itself. In this case, while the LOC was still in existence,
such a request was made and it was renewed and, therefore, under
Clause (J) such an extension was not illegal. Even otherwise the LOC
has been specifically extended as stated by Shri Halwasia. 34. Shri Halwasia strongly submitted that the Petitioner was at a
flight risk and there is a strong possibility that he would not return to
India once he leaves the country. Though Shri Ponda submitted that
his parents are in India and he also has some immovable property in
India, however, it is an admitted fact that the Petitioner's main 22 / 24 23 WP-3058-21.odt

business concerns are in Hongkong. His wife and daughters are based
in Hongkong and, therefore, it cannot be presumed that the Petitioner
would return to India because his parents are based in India. Though
Shri Ponda has offered to deposit his parents' passports, Shri Halwasia
rightly submitted that in case of default by the Petitioner, his parents
cannot be touched by the SFIO and such offer of depositing their
passports is rather meaningless. The Petitioner does have dual
citizenship and, therefore, in case he decides not return to India it
would become very difficult to bring him back. In the background of
this case his presence for the investigation purposes is necessary. In
none of the cases discussed above the Petitioners therein had such a
dual citizenship and, therefore, the Petitioner's case is distinguishable. 35. Shri Ponda relied on the order of a Single Judge of the
Madras High Court in the case of V. Sathiamoorthy Vs. The Inspector
of Police7 . In that case the Petitioner was a citizen of India and was a
permanent resident of U.S.A. holding a Green Card and yet he was
permitted to travel abroad. We find that said case was under Sections
498-A and 406 of the Indian Penal Code read with Section 4 of the
Dowry Prohibition Act. The case was pending for more than six years
without trial and in that background, the Court had permitted the
Petitioner therein to travel abroad. Present case is vastly different from
that case as the present case is not between two individuals and is of
enormous magnitude. Therefore, even this order does not help Shri
Ponda's submissions. 7 Decided on 1.10.2021 passed in Crl.O.P. No.13333/2021 (Madras High Court) 23 / 24 24 WP-3058-21.odt 36. Since we were called upon to decide the competing interest,
 i.e. the right of the Petitioner and the power and duties of the
 authorities, our order is in respect of the legality, validity and
 justifiability of the impugned LOC and its extension for one year. 37. To conclude, we find that the LOC is properly issued, it is
 extended through proper procedure and the appropriate authority has
 approved its extension. The Petitioner's presence is necessary for
 effective investigation into the affairs of Gitanjali Gems Limited and
PRADIPKUMAR
PRAKASHRAO
DESHMANE
 other concerns. There is a strong flight risk as far as the Petitioner is Digitally signed by PRADIPKUMAR PRAKASHRAO concerned and, therefore, the relief sought for in this Petition cannot DESHMANE Date: 2021.11.17 19:02:58 +0530 be granted and the Petition is accordingly dismissed.