1. Before this Court set to adjudicate on myriad issues
flagged on either side, let the Court to spell out laconically the
landscape of the pleadings. 2. This is a suit for Specific Performance of Contract
dated 01.09.2023, Declaration, Permanent Injunction and
Recovery of Rs.20,00,000/- u/s 34 of the Specific Performance
Act, filed by plaintiff against the defendants. 3. Brief facts of the case as averred in the plaint are
that plaintiff is the publisher of educational books. The books are
for schools, colleges and professional learners and are supplied
all over the world. ORANGE AVA is an internal division of the
plaintiff and Mr. Sourabh Dwivedi is duly authorized to sign,
verify and institute the present proceedings for and on behalf of
the plaintiff through Board Resolution. 4. It has been further averred in the plaint that the
defendant No.1, an author expressed his wish to publish books
titled as "Mastering Classification Algorithms for Machine
Learning" through the plaintiff and the defendant No.2 is a
publisher, connived with the defendant No.1 and published the
'work' illegally on his website though the 'work' was owned by
the plaintiff. 5. It has been further averred that the present suit is
primarily to address the unauthorized usage of the 'literary work'
as defined under Section 2 (o) of the Copyright Act, 1957. It has
been further averred that the defendant No.1 entered into an
agreement with plaintiff on 01.09.2022, through which he gave
the plaintiff WORLDWIDE COPYRIGHT in English and all
other languages including all types of printed, electronic format,
e-books, IOS Apps, Kindle, Android apps and all other e-
platforms on an exclusive basis for the manuscript/work titled,
"Mastering Classifications Algorithms for Machine Learning". 6. It has been further averred that through the contract
dated 01.09.2022, it was agreed that the sole and exclusive right
to edit, annotate, introduce, enlarge, print, publish, distribute, sell
and authorize others to distribute and the work in whole or in part
in the form of books, e-book, online, on the web, pamphlets
periodicals print on demand or any other form of printed words
whatsoever will be under the name of the plaintiff and/ or other
trade names as plaintiff may determine at its discretion. It has
been further averred that the defendant No.1 had signed the
contract and informed the plaintiff of writing the book. 7. It has been further averred that it was agreed
between the plaintiff and defendant No.1 that if the copyright of
the 'work' is believed to be infringed by others and if no other
arrangement is arrived at for the joint action, either party shall
have the right to take any action in such infringements and enjoy
the damages and other reliefs granted by Court of law; that if the
parties proceed jointly, the expenses and recovery whatsoever
shall be shared equally; that if the parties don't proceed jointly,
either party shall have the right to go ahead with suitable legal CS (COMM) No. 55/2024 M/s Orange Education Pvt. Ltd. vs. Partha Marjumdar Page No. 3 /41 Digitally signed Devendra by Devendra
 Kumar Sharma
 Kumar Date: 8. It has been further averred that it was agreed by the
defendant No.1 that if plaintiff decided not to publish the book,
then the rights will be given back to defendant No.1 but it was
mandatorily required for defendant No.1 to procure the letter in
writing from plaintiff. It has been further averred that the
defendant No.1 agreed not to write the same content for any
other publication without prior written permission from its client
and it was amply clear that the plaintiff only had the first right to
refusal. 9. It has been further averred that the plaintiff is vested
with the exclusive rights of producing and publishing the work as
envisaged by the Copyright Act . It has been further averred that
the defendant No.1 was specifically restrained to deliver any
manuscript, photographs, photostats, maps, etc., already
published or permit any other publishers to publish any material
in any printed form including visual and/ or recording of sound,
based on the material in the 'Work' assigned by plaintiff or
which, in the opinion of plaintiff was likely to injure sales of the
work. 10. It has been further averred that the plaintiff invested
in the project as defendant No.1 showed inclination for it and
subsequently plaintiff and defendant No.1 shared all necessary
details and defendant No.1 worked on the manuscript editing and
pre-publishing tasks of the book from September, 2022 till May,
2023. It has been further averred that the defendant No.1 from
time to time prepared the chapters submitted to the plaintiff for
approval and proceeded towards the completion of the CS (COMM) No. 55/2024 M/s Orange Education Pvt. Ltd. vs. Partha Marjumdar Page No. 4 /41 Digitally signed Devendra by Devendra
 Kumar Sharma
 Kumar Date: 11. It has been further averred that the book 'Mastering
Classification Algorithms for Machine Learning' was to be
prepared from 18.09.2022 to 01.01.2023. The chapters were
written and the annexures were submitted and the defendant vide
email dated 09.04.2023 had submitted a book proposal to the
plaintiff for approval and the details of the chapter are mentioned
in Para 9 of the plaint. 12. It has been further averred that the plaintiff is the
copyright owner of the work or an exclusive licensee got
registered 'Mastering Classification Algorithms for Machine
Learning' on 13.04.2023 with Raja Ram Mohun Roy National
Agency as ISBN 9789388590792 and E-ISBN 9789388590778
for the book alongwith the name of defendant No.1 as Author. It
has been further averred that the proprietary right of the project
lies with plaintiff and this work was protected by applicable
copyright laws, granting exclusive rights to reproduce, distribute,
display and create derivative works based on it but irresponsible
act of defendant No.1 caused loss to the plaintiff. 13. It has been further averred that the plaintiff had
submitted the work to defendant No.1 for final approval and the
final draft was submitted and accepted on 21.03.2023,
08.04.2023 and 15.05.2023. Meanwhile, defendant No.1 in
connivance with defendant No. 2 with intention to cheat the
plaintiff had shared the entire contents with defendant No.2 for
publication with pre-planned malafide intention to take benefit
from the investment of plaintiff. 14. It has been further averred that once the manuscript CS (COMM) No. 55/2024 M/s Orange Education Pvt. Ltd. vs. Partha Marjumdar Page No. 5 /41 Digitally signed Devendra by Devendra
 Kumar Sharma
 Kumar Date: 15. It has been further averred that observing the acts of
defendant No.1, plaintiff had sent an email dated 26.04.2023
informing the defendant No.1 that Plaintiff is available to sell the
product developed by him on all the relevant and major channels
across the world and has a strength of 150 sales personnel for
physical distribution; that it was informed to defendant No.1 that
plaintiff is legally bound to publish any content received during
collaboration period by virtue of the contract that was signed at
the beginning of the project; that the plaintiff had informed the
defendant No.1 that if the defendant No.1 does not abide by the
terms, then the plaintiff shall invoke his legal rights. 16. It has been further averred that the plaintiff has
invested its resources to build something meaningful and taking a
step back caused loss to plaintiff, financially and brand success
wise and the defendant No.1 was advised by the plaintiff to
consider clauses (a), 1, 14, 15 and 16 of the signed contracts and
not to share the content with any other publisher, channel or
distributor as it will stand in conflict to the above stated clauses
and plaintiff also promised defendant No.1 to deliver the best
possible results and a regular update on the market journey of the
product. 17. It has been further averred that despite all the CS (COMM) No. 55/2024 M/s Orange Education Pvt. Ltd. vs. Partha Marjumdar Page No. 6 /41 Digitally signed Devendra by Devendra
 Kumar Sharma
 Kumar Date: 18. It has been further averred that the plaintiff found
that defendant No.1 in connivance with Mr. Manish Jain and
Nrip Jain i.e., owners/ directors of defendant No.2 in a malafide
manner entered into agreement dated 01.09.2022 with plaintiff to
use the manpower and facilities of plaintiff and later published
through defendant No.2 for commercial purposes and caused
financial losses to the plaintiff and nurtured own benefit. It has
been further averred that Mr. Nrip Jain i.e. owner/ Director of
defendant No. 2 mentioned to the plaintiff on whatsapp about the
receipt of manuscript of the work being prepared by the plaintiff
alongwith defendant No.1. 19. It has been further averred that on 26.04.2023,
official of the plaintiff clearly indicated that plaintiff is available
to sell defendant No.1 product on all relevant and major channels
across the world and have a strength of 150 sales personnel for
physical distribution; that plaintiff had legally bound themselves
to publish content received during collaboration period by virtue
of the contract signed at the beginning of the project; that the
plaintiff invested resources to build something meaningful and
taking a step back by defendant No.1 is a loss, financially and
brand success wise. Plaintiff advised defendant no. 1 consider CS (COMM) No. 55/2024 M/s Orange Education Pvt. Ltd. vs. Partha Marjumdar Page No. 7 /41 Digitally signed Devendra by Devendra
 Kumar Sharma
 Kumar Date: 20. It has been further averred that the action of
defendant No.1 as detailed herein above constitute not only
infringing activities but also constant cheating and fraud and as
such there is an urgent need for permanent injunction restraining
the defendants from continuing their illegal and malafide
activities; that the defendants had used unauthorized content,
violated contracts and illegally shared the content developed with
the help and investment of the plaintiff with other persons/
publisher i.e. defendant No.2 without any authorization. 21. It is further averred that since the defendant did not
compensate the plaintiff for damages by paying Rs.20,00,000/- in
terms of the Publishing Agreement, the plaintiff had sent a legal
notice dated 24.05.2023 to the defendants through speed post, but
to no avail. Further, the plaintiff had filed an application for
initiating pre-institution mediation on 10.08.2023 before DLSA,
Central District, Tis Hazari Courts, however, since the defendant
did not participate in mediation proceedings, a Non-Starter
Report dated 28.11.2023 was issued by the authority. 22. Thus, aggrieved by the acts of defendants, plaintiff
has filed the present suit for Specific Performance of Contract
dated 01.09.2023 to declare the plaintiff as exclusive owner of
the copyright "Mastering Classification Algorithms for Machine CS (COMM) No. 55/2024 M/s Orange Education Pvt. Ltd. vs. Partha Marjumdar Page No. 8 /41 Digitally signed Devendra by Devendra
 Kumar Sharma
 Kumar Date: 23. Summons of suit for settlement of issues were
issued to the defendants. Despite service, the defendant No.1
neither appeared nor filed any written statement within the period
stipulated under Commercial Courts Act , hence, opportunity to
file written statement was closed vide order dated 24.07.2024.
Thereafter, vide order 13.12.2024, the defendant No.1 was
proceeded ex-parte. 24. The defendant No.2 has contested the suit by filing a
detailed written statement. However, since the WS was filed
after the expiry of period of 120 days i.e. on 126 th day after the
service of defendant No.2, the WS filed on behalf of the
defendant No.2 has been struck off the record vide order dated
18.09.2024. 25. Accordingly, no replication has been filed on behalf
of the plaintiff. Hence, no issues were framed in the instant case. (B) Evidence :- 26. In order to prove its case, the plaintiff has examined
the AR of the plaintiff Sh. Sourabh Dwivedi as PW1. He CS (COMM) No. 55/2024 M/s Orange Education Pvt. Ltd. vs. Partha Marjumdar Page No. 9 /41 Digitally signed Devendra by Devendra
 Kumar Sharma
 Kumar Date: 27. He was cross-examined at length on behalf of the
defendant No.2. The cross examination of PW1 shall be
discussed in detail at the later part of the judgment. 28. No other witness was examined on behalf of
plaintiff. Therefore, PE was closed. 29. Despite granting opportunity, defendant No.2 has CS (COMM) No. 55/2024 M/s Orange Education Pvt. Ltd. vs. Partha Marjumdar Page No. 10 /41 Digitally signed Devendra by Devendra
 Kumar Sharma
 Kumar Date: 30. Arguments were addressed by Sh. Naveen Kumar
Tripathi, Counsel for the plaintiff and Sh. Gyanendra Kumar,
Counsel for defendant No.2. Written submissions have also been
filed on behalf of plaintiff and defendant no.2. 31. During the course of arguments, counsels for
plaintiff and defendant reiterated respective averments made in
the plaint and written statement (which has already been struck
off the record) and also referred to documents filed on behalf of
respective parties as well as evidence adduced on record by the
plaintiff. 32. Counsel for the plaintiff has submitted that as per
the contract dated 01.09.2020, it was agreed that the sole and
exclusive right to edit, annotate, introduce, enlarge, print,
publish, distribute, sell and authorize others to distribute and the
work in whole or in part in the form of books, e-book, online, on
the web, pamphlets periodicals print on demand or any other
form of printed words whatsoever will be under the name of the
plaintiff and/ or other trade names as plaintiff may determine at
its discretion. It has been further submitted that it was agreed by
the defendant No.1 that if plaintiff decides not to publish the
book, then the rights will be given back to defendant No.1 but it
was mandatorily required for defendant No.1 to procure the letter
in writing from plaintiff. It has been further submitted that the
defendant No.1 has agreed not to write the same content for any
other publication without prior written permission from its client.
It has been further submitted that the plaintiff is vested with the CS (COMM) No. 55/2024 M/s Orange Education Pvt. Ltd. vs. Partha Marjumdar Page No. 11 /41 Digitally signed Devendra by Devendra
 Kumar Sharma
 Kumar Date: 33. It has been further submitted that the plaintiff
invested in the project as defendant No.1 showed inclination for
it and subsequently plaintiff and defendant No.1 shared all
necessary details and defendant No.1 worked on the manuscript
editing and pre-publishing tasks of the book from September,
2022 till May, 2023. It has been further submitted that the
defendant No.1 from time to time prepared the chapters
submitted to the plaintiff for approval and proceeded towards the
completion of the manuscript. It has been further submitted that
the book 'Mastering Classification Algorithms for Machine
Learning' was to be prepared from 18.09.2022 to 01.01.2023 and
the chapters were written and the annexures were submitted and
the defendant vide email dated 09.04.2023 had submitted a book
proposal to the plaintiff for approval and the details of the
chapters are mentioned in Para 7 of the written submission. 34. It has been further submitted that the plaintiff is the
copyright owner of the work or an exclusive licensee got
registered 'Mastering Classification Algorithms for Machine
Learning' on 13.04.2023 with Raja Ram Mohun Roy National
Agency as ISBN 9789388590792 and E-ISBN 9789388590778
for the book alongwith the name of defendant No.1 as Author CS (COMM) No. 55/2024 M/s Orange Education Pvt. Ltd. vs. Partha Marjumdar Page No. 12 /41 Digitally signed Devendra by Devendra
 Kumar Sharma
 Kumar Date: 35. It has been further submitted that observing the acts
of defendant No.1, plaintiff had sent an email dated 26.04.2023
informing the defendant No.1 that plaintiff is available to sell the
product developed by him on all the relevant and major channels
across the world and has a strength of 150 sales personnel for
physical distribution and it was informed to defendant No.1 that
plaintiff is legally bound to publish any content received during
collaboration period by virtue of the contract that was signed at
the beginning of the project. It has been further submitted that
the plaintiff had informed the defendant No.1 that if the
defendant No.1 does not abide by the terms, then the plaintiff
shall invoke his legal rights. 36. It has been further submitted that despite all the
efforts, the plaintiff came to know that the defendants published
the work title 'Mastering Classification Algorithms for Machine
Learning' and the published work is exactly the same as
plaintiff's copyrighted work, thereby infringing upon plaintiff
exclusive rights and the similarities between the two works are
evident on BPB Online.com and Amazon.in against the terms of CS (COMM) No. 55/2024 M/s Orange Education Pvt. Ltd. vs. Partha Marjumdar Page No. 13 /41 Digitally signed Devendra by Devendra
 Kumar Sharma
 Kumar Date: 37. It has been further submitted that the plaintiff
invested resources to build something meaningful and taking a
step back by defendant No.1 is a loss, financially and brand
success wise and the plaintiff advised defendant no. 1 to consider
clauses (a), 1, 14, 15 and 16 of signed contract. It has been
further submitted that the plaintiff vide email dated 11.05.2023
made formal request to defendant No.1 for publishing the content
finally approved and ready for publication. It has been further
submitted that the said action of defendant No.1 constitutes not
only infringing activities but also constant cheating and fraud and
as such there is an urgent need for permanent injunction
restraining the defendants from continuing their illegal and
malafide activities. It has been further submitted that the
defendants had used unauthorized content, violated contracts and
illegally shared the content developed with the help and
investment of the plaintiff with other persons/ publisher i.e.
defendant No.2 without any authorization. 38. It has been further submitted that since the
defendant did not pay the compensation of Rs.20,00,000/- in
terms of the Publishing Agreement, the plaintiff had sent a legal CS (COMM) No. 55/2024 M/s Orange Education Pvt. Ltd. vs. Partha Marjumdar Page No. 14 /41 Digitally signed Devendra by Devendra
 Kumar Sharma
 Kumar Date: 39. It has been further submitted that the legal
requirement u/s 65B of Indian Evidence Act for admissibility of
electronic records is not disputed, however as per Order XI Rule
6(3) of Commercial Courts Act governs the admissibility of
electronic records in commercial disputes. It has been further
submitted that printouts of electronic records are admissible only
if supported by an affidavit confirming that the electronic records
and their contents have not been altered and the information is an
exact replica. It has been further submitted that the omission to
file the certificate was procedural and curable and not deliberate.
It has been further submitted that the electronic evidence is
corroborative of primary contractual and statutory rights. It has
been further submitted that the core rights flow from the written
agreement and statutory copyright and not merely from
electronic records. It has been further submitted that the
evidence may not be discarded at this stage and liberty be granted
to place the Section 65B certificate on record. 40. It has been further submitted that since the copyright
infringement is a statutory tort under Sections 51 and 55 of the CS (COMM) No. 55/2024 M/s Orange Education Pvt. Ltd. vs. Partha Marjumdar Page No. 15 /41 Digitally signed Devendra by Devendra
 Kumar Sharma
 Kumar Date: 41. It has been further submitted that defendant No.2's
reliance on Deshmukh & Co. v. Avinash Khandekar (2005) case
was misconceived which held that an agreement amounts to a
licence only where exclusivity, worldwide rights, and transfer of
control are absent. It has been further submitted that as the
plaintiff's rights are exclusive and worldwide, the Author is
contractually restrained from third-party publication and the
plaintiff also bore the commercial risk and investment. It has
been further submitted that as Section 18 explicitly permits
assignment of copyright in future works taking effect upon
creation, defendant No.2's own publication conclusively proves
that defendant No.2 published without authorization. It has been
further submitted that the plaintiff does not seek specific CS (COMM) No. 55/2024 M/s Orange Education Pvt. Ltd. vs. Partha Marjumdar Page No. 16 /41 Digitally signed Devendra by Devendra
 Kumar Sharma
 Kumar Date: 42. It has been further submitted that the present suit is a
commercial dispute involving exploitation of Copyright,
Publishing and Licensing Rights and Commercial Investment
exceeding the statutory threshold and this Court has jurisdiction u/s 2(1)(c) & Section 6 of the Commercial Courts Act, 2015 Section 55 of the Copyright Act, 1957 which expressly
empowers Civil Courts to grant injunctions, damages and
declarations. It has been further submitted that the declaration
sought is incidental and consequential to the enforcement of
statutory copyright and not a bare declaratory suit u/s 34 of the
Specific Relief Act and therefore, this Court is fully competent to
grant the reliefs, prayed for. 43. It has been further submitted that since after the
termination dated 25.04.2023 the defendant No.1 regaining
printing rights is legally untenable on the grounds that
termination does not divest the plaintiff of his accrued rights and
rights already assigned and acted upon survive termination. It
has been further submitted that the agreement also clearly
restrained defendant No.1 from republishing the same or
substantially similar content or licensing as well as sharing the
manuscript with the third parties without prior permission of the
plaintiff. It has been further submitted that the defendant's acts
amount to deliberate commercial exploitation of plaintiff's
copyrighted work, warranting injunction and damages. It has CS (COMM) No. 55/2024 M/s Orange Education Pvt. Ltd. vs. Partha Marjumdar Page No. 17 /41 Digitally signed Devendra by Devendra
 Kumar Sharma
 Kumar Date: 44. Per contra, Counsel for the defendant No.2 has
contended that the present suit filed by the plaintiff is liable to be
dismissed under Order VII Rule 11 of the Code of Civil
Procedure as the plaint discloses no independent cause of action
against defendant No.2 and the dispute, if any, arises solely out of
a contract dated 01.09.2022 between the plaintiff and defendant
No.1 and defendant No.2 was never a party to the said agreement
and therefore, there is no privity of contract as well. It has been
further submitted that the said agreement dated 01.09.2022 has
already been terminated by defendant No.1 on 25.04.2023 before
its completion and publication of the book and this material fact
was suppressed by the plaintiff, however, the same got revealed
during the cross-examination of PW1 who admitted that the said
termination email is not placed on record. 45. It has been further submitted that the plaintiff who is
relying on the agreement dated 01.09.2022 has failed to bring on
record a signed copy of the said agreement and hence failed to
discharge its burden. It has been further submitted that after the
termination of the agreement dated 01.09.2022, the manuscript CS (COMM) No. 55/2024 M/s Orange Education Pvt. Ltd. vs. Partha Marjumdar Page No. 18 /41 Digitally signed Devendra by Devendra
 Kumar Sharma
 Kumar Date: 46. It has been further submitted that the plaintiff has
come to this Court with a studied attempt to mislead by
withholding the material fact that defendant No.1/ author, duly
terminated the alleged agreement, if any, dated 01.09.2022 vide
termination notice/ email dated 25.04.2023 Ex.PW-1/D1 which
goes to the root of the maintainability of this suit. It has been
further submitted that it is an admitted fact that the plaintiff
neither placed on record the said termination email nor disclosed CS (COMM) No. 55/2024 M/s Orange Education Pvt. Ltd. vs. Partha Marjumdar Page No. 19 /41 Digitally signed Devendra by Devendra
 Kumar Sharma
 Kumar Date: 47. It has been further submitted that PW1, upon a
question asked from him during his cross examination, has
testified that it is correct that email at page no.43 (Part of
Ex.PW-1/7) (colly) was sent by the plaintiff in response to email
dated 25.04.2023 sent by defendant No.1, whereby he had
terminated the agreement dated 01.09.2022. It has been further
submitted that PW1 has further testified that he has not placed on
record the copy of e-mail dated 25.04.2023 sent by defendant
No.1 and voluntarily stated that it was not addressed to him. It
has been further submitted that the Hon'ble Supreme Court has
time and again emphasized that a party who approaches the
Court must do so with candour and good faith. It has been
further submitted that the plaintiff's case is based on falsehood
and it has no right to approach the Court and should be
summarily thrown out as it is an established fact that a litigant
who attempts to pollute the stream of justice or who touches the
pure fountain of justice with tainted hands, is not entitled to any
relief, interim or final. 48. It has been further submitted that under Section 17 of the Copyright Act, 1957, the author is the first owner of
copyright unless expressly assigned in writing. It has been
further submitted that the agreement relied upon by the plaintiff
was determinable and never culminated into a valid assignment
as the work was not fully delivered and consequently, defendant
No.1 retained all rights and was entitled to grant publishing rights
to defendant No.2. It has been further submitted that the plaintiff CS (COMM) No. 55/2024 M/s Orange Education Pvt. Ltd. vs. Partha Marjumdar Page No. 20 /41 Digitally signed Devendra by Devendra
 Kumar Sharma
 Kumar Date: 49. It has been further submitted that defendant No.2
entered into a separate agreement with defendant No.1 dated
25.04.2023 wherein the author warranted that he was free to deal
with his manuscript and the defendant No.2 relied on such
warranties in good faith and published the work lawfully and
there was no connivance, fraud or infringement. It has been
further submitted that the agreement in question which was
signed by defendant No.1 does not contain any termination
clause and the absence of such a clause in effect meant that the
plaintiff was seeking to bind the defendant No.1 to an
arrangement that could continue indefinitely. It has been further
submitted that mere absence of a termination clause cannot lead
to the inference that the contract is perpetual and on the contrary,
the absence of a termination clause together with the absence of
any stipulation as regards duration thereof would lead to the
conclusion that the contract is terminable at will by either party.
It has been further submitted that the termination of the present
agreement by defendant No.1 is valid in law and cannot be said
to be wrongful. 50. It has been further submitted that the nature of the
consideration under the agreement also makes it clear that there
was no assignment of copyright in favour of the plaintiff and it is
an established fact that the agreement stipulates that defendant
No.1 was to receive payment only in the form of royalties instead
of downright payment and it is wholly inconsistent with an
outright assignment of copyright where ownership of copyright is
transferred absolutely in exchange for a lump-sum consideration.
It has been further submitted that the said agreement would be
more of a license to sell and publish. It has been further
submitted that the plaintiff is seeking to compel defendant No.1
not only to assign publishing rights exclusively to the plaintiff
but also to restrain defendant No.1 from assigning such rights to
defendant No.2 and this relief is claimed on the basis of an
alleged agreement which admittedly already stands terminated. It
has been further submitted that such an attempt to force the
author and rightful owner of the subject work to assign
publishing and printing rights solely to the plaintiff is contrary to
law and wholly unsustainable. 51. It has been further submitted that the present suit is
barred by Section 14 of the Specific Relief Act, 1963, in as much
as it is a well-settled proposition that contracts which are in their
nature determinable cannot be specifically enforced. It has been
further submitted that the plaintiff under the garb of mandatory
injunction is seeking specific performance of a determinable
contract which is impermissible in law. It has been further
submitted that the reliefs sought by the plaintiff are barred in law
and on this ground alone, the present suit is liable to be
dismissed. It has been further submitted that the present suit is a CS (COMM) No. 55/2024 M/s Orange Education Pvt. Ltd. vs. Partha Marjumdar Page No. 22 /41 Digitally signed Devendra by Devendra
 Kumar Sharma
 Kumar Date: 52. Apart from these arguments, in additional written
submissions it has also been submitted that in a determinable
contract, specific performance is barred U/s 14 of the Specific
Relief Act , that damages cannot be awarded without pleading and
proof of actual loss and electronic evidence cannot be admitted
for want of Certificate under Section 65B of Indian Evidence Act
and that a relief cannot be granted against a particular defendant
if no relief is sought for against it in the pleadings and prayers.
In support of his contention, reliance is placed on behalf of the
defendant upon the following judgments:- ( iv) Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P & Other
 and Columbia Pictures Industries Inc. & Ors. Vs.
 RPG Netcom Globe & Ors. 2007 SCC OnLine Del
 759; (v) In case titled as Global Music Junction Pvt. Ltd. vs.
 Annapurna Films Pvt. Ltd. & Ors. 2023 SCC
 OnLine Del 17; (vi) In case titled as Deshmukh & Co. (Publishers) Pvt. Ltd. vs. Avinash Vishnu Khandekar , 2005 SCC
 OnLine Bom 566; (vii) In case titled as New Central Book Agency Pvt. Ltd. vs. Smt. Madhusri Konar & Ors. (2014) SCC Online
 Cal 18353; (viii) In case titled as Ghh Bumi Mining Services Pvt. Ltd. Vs. Hindustan Zinc Ltd. , 2023 SCC OnLine
 Del 3753; (ix) In case titled as Rajasthan Breweries Ltd. Vs. The
 Stroh Brewery Company , 2000 SCC OnLine Del
 481; (x) In case titled as UOI Vs. Krishna Constructions
 Company , (2025) 316 DLT 291; (xi) In case titled as Sudershan Kumar Bhayana Thr Lrs. Vs. Vinod Seth Thr. Lrs. 2023 SCC OnLine Del
 6097; (xii) In case titled as Vedanta Ltd. Vs. Emirates Trading
 Agency LLC (2017) 13 SCC 243; (xiii) In case titled as Arjun Panditro Khotkar Vs. Kailash
 Kushanrao Gorantyal (2020) 7 SCC 1. (E) Analysis of Evidence and Findings:- 53. I have heard the learned Counsels for the parties and
have also perused the record as well as the written submissions/
additional written submissions filed on behalf of the parties. 54. Issues have not been framed in this case. 55. In the present case, the opportunity to file written
statement on behalf of defendant No.1 was closed vide order
dated 24.07.2024 and the WS filed on behalf of defendant No.2 CS (COMM) No. 55/2024 M/s Orange Education Pvt. Ltd. vs. Partha Marjumdar Page No. 24 /41 Digitally signed Devendra by Devendra
 Kumar Sharma
 Kumar Date: 56. Thus, in absence of any WS, there is no issue of
admission of any facts and the cross examination of PW1 was
conducted on behalf of defendant No.2 only in order to prove the
case of the contesting defendant. The legal submissions have
been raised as discussed herein above on behalf of the contesting
defendant. 57. In order to better appreciation of the submissions
advanced on behalf of the parties in factual matrix of the present
case, the point of determination arises as under:- 58. Even beyond the scope of arguments raised on
behalf of the parties, one other point of determination would be
whether the alleged agreement is so dependent on the personal
qualification of the defendant No.1 that the Court cannot impose
specific performance of its material terms and if so, what may be
the alternative relief for the plaintiff. 59. It is a cardinal principle of law in a civil suit that the
party who asserts a fact has to prove it by leading cogent
evidence in terms of section 101 of the Indian Evidence Act
which is reproduced as under for the ready reference:- 60. Further, in order to prove a case, the law is clear that
any particular fact is to be proved by the person who wishes that
particular fact to be in existence and that should be believed by
the Court to be in existence and for ready reference, section 103 of Indian Evidence Act is reproduced as under:- 61. The burden of proof to make an evidence available
lies on the person who wishes to give evidence and for ready
reference, the relevant provision under section 104 of Indian
Evidence Act is reproduced as under:- 62. Lastly, it is also cardinal principle of evidence that a
fact specifically within the knowledge of any person is to be
proved by that person and for ready reference, the relevant
provision under section 106 of Indian Evidence Act is reproduced
as under:- 63. Further, it is the cardinal principle of law that a civil
suit is to be decided on the principle of probability and in this
regard, reliance may be placed upon para 41 of the judgment in
case titled as Nand Kishore vs. DDA, RFA No. 240/2017, CM
No. 19118/2021, decided on 29.11.2021 which is reproduced as
under for ready reference:- preponderance of probability" would serve the
 purpose for obtaining a decree". 14. Section 101 of the Evidence Act. 1872 defines
 "burden of proof" and laid down that the burden of
 proving a fact always lying upon the person who asserts
 the facts. Until such burden is discharged, the other party
 is not required to be called upon to prove his case. The
 court has to examine as to whether the person upon
 whom the burden lies has been able to discharge his
 burden. Until he arrives at such conclusion, he cannot
 proceed on the basis of weakness of other party. In view
 of Section 103 of Evidence Act, the burden of proof as
 to any particular fact lies on that person who wishes the
 Court to believe in its existence, unless it is provided by
 any law that the proof of that fact shall lied on any
 particular person. Further, Section 58 of the Indian
 Evidence Act contained that no fact need to be proved in
 any proceedings which parties thereto or their agents
 agree to admit at the herein, or which, before the
 hearing, they agree to admit by any writing under their
 hands or which by any rule of pleadings enforce at the
 time they are deemed to have admitted by their
 pleadings. As held in judgment reported as Uttam Chand
 Kothari Vs. Gauri Shankar Jalan . AIR 2007 Gau. 20.
 admission in the written statement cannot be allowed to
 be withdrawn. In view of this legal position of the Evidence Act , it is clear that it is for the
 appellant to prove that he has right, title or interest in the
 suit property. 18. I have gone through the judgment reported as (2003)
 8 SCC 752. As held:- 64. In the light of above discussed principle of law and
relevant provisions of law, now it is to be seen as to whether the
plaintiff is entitled for the reliefs sought in plaint i.e. of
declaration, permanent injunction and a decree for a sum of
Rs.20 lacs alongwith decree of rendition of accounts alongwith
handing over the profit and pendente lite interest as per RBI
guidelines. 65. In the factual matrix of the present case, the first and
foremost point to be decided is as to whether there was any
legally enforceable contract between the plaintiff and the
defendant No.1 and as to whether the agreement relied upon
Ex.PW1/3 is inadmissible in evidence for want of proper
authentication by proving the certificate u/s 65B of Indian
Evidence Act. 66. In its pleading and evidence led through PW1, the
reliance has been placed upon the document Ex.PW1/3 (colly).
Ex.PW1/3 is bunch of documents allegedly printout/ downloaded
copy consisting of author information sheet, agreement dated
01.09.2022 (running into 09 pages) including the alleged
signature upon the agreement through web application. Thus, all CS (COMM) No. 55/2024 M/s Orange Education Pvt. Ltd. vs. Partha Marjumdar Page No. 29 /41 Digitally signed Devendra by Devendra
 Kumar Sharma
 Kumar Date: 69. In the present case, there is no pleading that the
agreement Ex.PW1/3 was executed through web Sign. In the
evidence by way of affidavit Ex.PW1/A of PW1, there is no
mention that as to how this agreement was executed between the
parties and who had been the signatory of said agreement.
During the course of arguments, it was argued that the agreement
was signed through sign Now web application. However, in the
entire testimony of PW1 there is no deposition to the effect that CS (COMM) No. 55/2024 M/s Orange Education Pvt. Ltd. vs. Partha Marjumdar Page No. 30 /41 Digitally signed Devendra by Devendra
 Kumar Sharma
 Kumar Date: 70. Further, in the present case admittedly no certificate u/s 65B of Indian Evidence Act has been proved in order to
authenticate the correctness of electronic documents including
the email dated 01.09.2022 Ex.PW1/2, agreement in question
Ex.PW1/3, copy of email dated 06.01.2022 Ex.PW1/4, copy of
email dated 09.04.2023 and 10.04.2023 Ex.PW1/5, copy of the
registration proof Ex.PW1/6, copy of emails Ex.PW1/7 and other
electronic records in the form of downloaded copy/ emails
Ex.PW1/8, Ex.PW1/9 and Ex.PW1/12. 71. Though it has been argued that a certificate U/o XI
Rule 6(3) of Commercial Courts Act has been proved as
Ex.PW1/15 and prayer has been made to give opportunity to
prove the certificate u/s 65B of Indian Evidence Act else to treat
the documents proved as per law in absence of any dispute on
behalf of the defendants and in absence of any rebuttal pleadings.
However, the issue of giving opportunity to prove the certificate
does not arise ipso facto in the hands of the Court and matter is at
the stage of evidence since 06.11.2024 and even this issue has
already been raised at the time of oral final arguments but no step
was taken in order to seek any proper remedy. Therefore, it
appears that this argument has been raised in order to dispel the
adverse statutory presumption arising against the plaintiff for
want of filing of proper certificate u/s 65B of Indian Evidence CS (COMM) No. 55/2024 M/s Orange Education Pvt. Ltd. vs. Partha Marjumdar Page No. 31 /41 Digitally signed Devendra by Devendra
 Kumar Sharma
 Kumar Date: 72. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in case of " Anwar P.V.
Vs. P. K. Bhasheer, Air 2015 SC 180 has delved upon
admissibility of printouts of the documents by observing as
under:- 73. The issue of filing of Certificate U/s 65B of the Act
also came up for consideration before Hon'ble Delhi High Court
in case of Samsung India Electronics Pvt. Ltd. Vs. MGR
Enterprises & Ors , CRL.L.P. 344/2019 decided on 24 th May,
2019. While referring to the judgment of Hon'ble Supreme
Court in case of Anvar P.V. (supra), following observations were
made:- Devendra by Devendra
 Kumar Sharma
 Kumar Date: 74. It was thus concluded:- 75. Thus, from the above discussion, it is clear that the
very basis and foundation of the case that there was legally
enforceable contract between the parties in the form of Ex.PW1/3
could not be proved by way of evidence and therefore, the very
foundation of the case regarding the entitlement of any of the
relief in favour of the plaintiff could not be proved in the
testimony of PW1 on preponderance of probability. 76. Further, even if it is assumed that vide Ex.PW1/3
there was any legally enforceable contract entered into between
the plaintiff and defendant No.1, it has been proved in the
testimony of PW1 himself that the said contract was terminated
vide e-mail dated 25.04.2023 Ex.PW1/D1. PW1 in his testimony
has admitted that the said email was in the knowledge of PW1
and it was not filed on record and therefore, it can be safely held
in view of his admission that the plaintiff has not approached this
Court with clean hands disclosing all the relevant and material
facts in view of the admission of PW1 that the said email has not CS (COMM) No. 55/2024 M/s Orange Education Pvt. Ltd. vs. Partha Marjumdar Page No. 35 /41 Digitally signed Devendra by Devendra
 Kumar Sharma
 Kumar Date: 77. In the present case, the alleged agreement between
the plaintiff and defendant No.1 was for writing a book and there
was some alleged terms and conditions for payment of royalty.
Perusal of Ex.PW1/3 reveals that there was no termination clause
between the parties. Therefore, in view of the law laid down in case titled as Global Music Junction Pvt. Ltd. vs. Annapurna Films
Pvt. Ltd. & Ors. 2023 SCC OnLine Del 17 relied upon by the
defendant, it can be safely held that the present agreement by
nature was determinable and in this regard, relevant para No. 35
is reproduced as under:- 78. Further, the writing of book is solely dependent
upon the personal qualification of the defendant No.1 and
therefore, defendant No.1 cannot be forced to specifically
perform the material terms of the contract/ agreement Ex.PW1/3
if the books have not already been written. 79. Therefore, now it is to be seen as to whether the
book in question was already written and published and as to CS (COMM) No. 55/2024 M/s Orange Education Pvt. Ltd. vs. Partha Marjumdar Page No. 36 /41 Digitally signed Devendra by Devendra
 Kumar Sharma
 Kumar Date: 80. Though it is claimed on behalf of the plaintiff that
the book was already complete and it was about to publish, when
the defendant no.1 has refused to perform his part of contract and
for the purposes of publication even the copyright has already
been obtained by the plaintiff by way of registering it with ISBN
vide document Ex.PW1/6. 81. However, this claim of the plaintiff appears to be
incorrect from the record as well as evidence led so far on behalf
of the plaintiff. In the email dated 20.05.2023, which is part of
Ex.PW1/3 in response to the email dated 24.04.2023 wherein it
was stated by one of the official of the plaintiff company i.e.
Senior Content Development Editor, that she rechecked Chapter
1 and have added a comment with the request to share the front
matter and preface for the book, it was replied that "I was going
to wait until the chapters have been fully finalized - I may still
want to add or changes some of the images/ code files.........".
Thus, this email even itself shows that even by 20.05.2023 the
alleged book was not in existence publication of which according
to the plaintiff has already been completed. 82. Further, in the testimony of PW1, it has come on
record that the complete manuscript was handed over by
defendant no.1 as per the agreement and he has denied the
suggestion that no such manuscript was handed over. However,
when he was confronted regarding the filing of such document
i.e. cover design and the layout of the book which was already CS (COMM) No. 55/2024 M/s Orange Education Pvt. Ltd. vs. Partha Marjumdar Page No. 37 /41 Devendra Digitally signed
 by Devendra
 Kumar Kumar Sharma
 Date: 2026.02.11
 Sharma 16:46:29 +0530
 prepared, he replied that he cannot recall filing of any such
document on record. This testimony of PW1 itself shows that he
has avoided the reply of the direct question. As a matter of
record, there is no such document placed on record to show that
the cover design of the book in question was already prepared.
Even as discussed in the abovesaid email, there is discussion of
finalization of cover design and after about 2 years of the said
email, the witness PW1 has deposed against his own record
placed in the judicial file of non-preparation of cover design. 83. Further, PW1 has admitted in his cross-examination
that no hard copies or soft copies of the attachments in the emails
or any document or material prepared by the plaintiff for
advertising and marketing have been placed on record. Thus, this
admission on the part of PW1 itself shows that the book was not
complete by the time alleged contract was terminated on behalf
of the defendant no.1. 84. Further, PW1 has claimed that the plaintiff had sent
the book for printing on all global printing partners but he
himself admitted that no such document has been placed on
record. 85. Further, PW1 has claimed that plaintiff has released
the book in question in the market for sale but he himself
admitted that he has not filed the copy of the said book for which
he is claiming infringement of copyright. Further, it has been
claimed by PW1 that the publication by the defendant no.2 was
later in point of time after the publication by plaintiff but when
he was asked to show any documents, he failed to produce any
such documents about his claim of listing on amazon by the CS (COMM) No. 55/2024 M/s Orange Education Pvt. Ltd. vs. Partha Marjumdar Page No. 38 /41 Digitally signed Devendra by Devendra
 Kumar Sharma
 Kumar Date: 86. PW1 has denied that it was only publishing rights
and not the copyright was there with him. However, in this regard
it may be noted that U/s 18 of the Copyright Act , the assignment
of copyright would be only there once the assigned work is
complete. In the present case, the book as discussed herein-
above was never complete for the purposes of publication and
more so the registration with ISBN cannot be told to be a
copyright registration. 87. On the issue of damages, when PW1 was cross-
examined, he has claimed that total Rs.11,50,000/- as expenses
has been shown in his affidavit Ex.PW1/A but he himself has
admitted that he has not filed any document to show the said
expenses incurred by the plaintiff. As per record, there is no
document placed on record regarding any kind of expenses
except email exchanges that too after the termination of the
contract for the publication of the book which appears to be also
an afterthought as once the contract has been terminated
according to the plaintiff himself, there was no occasion for him
to make arrangement for the publication of the book in question.
Further, even as per communication placed on record on behalf
of the plaintiff, the writing of the book was not complete,
therefore, in such circumstances, claim of expenses and that too
without any documentary proof or oral evidence of receiving of
any amount paid/sent for the purposes of publication/preparation
of book, appears to be without any basis. Further, the claim of
damages against the goodwill is there but there is no evidence on
record in what manner and upto what extent the goodwill of the
plaintiff got damaged because of non-publication of the present CS (COMM) No. 55/2024 M/s Orange Education Pvt. Ltd. vs. Partha Marjumdar Page No. 39 /41 Devendra Digitally signed
 by Devendra
 Kumar Kumar Sharma
 Date: 2026.02.11
 Sharma 16:46:43 +0530
 book when his claim of listing the selling the book on amazon
was found unsubstantiated. 88. In the light of aforesaid discussion, this Court is of
the opinion that the plaintiff has failed to prove its case on
preponderance of probability. Thus, it can be safely held as
under:- 89. In consequence to the abovesaid findings, it is held
as under that :- (ii) That the plaintiff has not approached this Court with CS (COMM) No. 55/2024 M/s Orange Education Pvt. Ltd. vs. Partha Marjumdar Page No. 40 /41 Digitally signed Devendra by Devendra
 Kumar Sharma
 Kumar Date: R E L I E F:- 90. In view of the foregoing discussion, it is held that
plaintiff is not entitled to any relief in the present suit and its suit
is accordingly dismissed. 91. In the circumstances discussed hereinabove, parties
to bear their own costs. 92. Decree sheet be prepared accordingly. 93. File be consigned to record room after due
compliance. Digitally signed
 Devendra by Devendra
Dictated and pronounced Kumar
 Kumar Sharma
 Date: