. Odisha Coal and Power Limited (in short 'OCPL') is a

 joint venture of Odisha Power Generation Corporation (in short

 'OPGC') and Odisha Hydro Power Corporation (in short 'OHPC'),

 both Government of Odisha undertakings. Therefore, the opposite

 party is a "Government Company" as defined under Section 2 (45) 3 of the Companies Act, 2013. The opposite party was created to

develop and operate coal mines to cater to the fuel requirements of

the expansion of power plant of OPGC. OPGC is establishing the

End Use Plant as part of its capacity addition. 3. The Ministry of Coal, Government of India has allotted

two contiguous coal blocks, namely, Manoharpur Coal Mine and

the dip side of Manoharpur Coal block, both located in Ib valley

coalfields in Odisha, to the opposite party for supply of coal

exclusively for use in the power plant (under construction) of

OPGC. The NIT No.OCPL/33/2016 dated 12.12.2016 pertains to

only Manoharpur Coal Mines. The opposite party intended to

appoint a Mine Operator (MO) in respect of the Manoharpur coal

mine. Accordingly, the opposite party issued Request For

Qualification (RFQ) for the selection of MO for operation of

Manoharpur coal mines project in the State of Odisha, India.

Therefore, International Competitive Bidding (ICB) was issued on

12.12.2016. The said RFQ has been revised twice vide

Corrigendum-1 dated 23.12.2016 and Corrigendum-2 dated

07.03.2017. The schedule date for submission and opening of

qualification proposals was 31.01.2017. Consequence of issuance

of Corrigendum, revised cut-off date and time for submission of

proposals for qualification was fixed to 25.03.2017 at 14.00 4 hours. The qualification proposals were scheduled to be opened at

14.30 hours on 25.03.2017. Vide Corrigendum-1 dated

23.12.2016, the opposite party modified Section-5 .2 of the RFQ

and Appendix-5 relating to technical qualification requirement

that in place of "financial year", it should be "calendar year".

Subsequently, the opposite party modified Sections-5.2.2 (c) and

5.4.3 of the RFQ as well as Annexure-A to the RFQ vide

Corrigendum-2 dated 17.03.2017. The said modifications

incorporated certain clarification regarding technical qualification

in case of bids submitted under the consortium route. The

opposite party allotted with such coal mines for the End Use

(power plant of OPGC) with 420 MW is being expanded by another

1320 MW and, as such, the opposite party has already invested

around rupees 500 crores in the aforementioned coal blocks as

the coal will be used to meet the captive requirement of OPGC for

generation of electricity in the Thermal power plant established at

Banaharpali in the district of Jharsuguda for the larger benefit of

people of the State of Odisha. 4. The present requirement of coal in the said power

plant of OPGC is around 7.5 MTPA (Million Tonnes Per Annum).

Both petitioners no.1 and 2 are having experience and expertise in

development and operation of coal mines of capacities similar to 5 the Manoharpur coal mines. As far as present RFQ is concerned,

petitioner no.1 (which meets the financial qualification

requirement) is desirous to seek qualification through the affiliate

route relying on the technical credentials of its

subsidiary/affiliate, petitioner no.2, which has developed and

operated Gare Palma IV/2 and IV/3 in Chhatisgarh with

geological reserves of 246.84 MT (Million Tonnes), mineable

reserves of 187.19 MT and annual capacity of 6.25 MTPA. So also

the petitioner no.1 has developed and operated the said coal block

as mine owner, the Gare Palma IV/1 coal mine in Chhatisgarh

having geological reserves of 140.89 MT and capacity of 6 MTPA

and had operated the said mine from February, 1999 to March,

2015. Both the petitioner nos.1 and 2 are also carrying out the

CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) activities in peripheral

villages of the said Gare Palma IV/1 coal mine and also carried

out pre-mining activities like obtaining statutory clearance

(environment clearance, forest clearance etc.) as well as land

acquisition, CSR etc. in relation to the said coal mines in

Chhatisgarh. Consequentially, both petitioners no.1 and 2 have

successfully developed and operated Gare Palma IV/1, IV/2 and

IV/3 coal mine respectively and have ensured that the operations

of the same are of a standard much higher than the industry 6 benchmark on the cost effectiveness and reliability parameters. In

view of the experience and expertise in the entire spectrum of

activities involved in development and operation of the coal mines,

petitioners no.1 and 2 are desirous of and looking forward to

participate in the subject tender process through the affiliate

route and bid on a level paying field with other interested bidders. 5. The provisions contained in 5.2.1 requires a bidder to

have been awarded a mining contract for development and

operation of a single coal/lignite mine having a reserve of at least

150 MT with annual capacity of at least 7 MTPA and should have

produced at least 3 MT of coal/lignite from such mine in any one

calendar year during the ten (10) calendar years preceding the

date of opening of the qualification proposal. The petitioners no.1

and 2 may not qualify and, as such, they will be deprived of

participating in the tender process. Therefore, it is contended that

such condition is arbitrary, unreasonable and contrary to the

provisions of law. Hence this application. 6. Mr. Arvind Verma, learned Senior Counsel appearing

along with Mr. Srijeet Mohanty and Ms. Sruti Choudhury, learned

counsel for the petitioners contended that fixation of annual

capacity at least 7 MTPA under Section 5 .2.1 of the RFQ has no 7 nexus or co-relation with object sought to be achieved and,

therefore, such condition is arbitrary and unreasonable. It is

contended that petitioner no.1 having capacity of 6 MTPA and is

affiliated with petitioner no.2 having 6.25 MTPA, they jointly

having more capacity and having been allowed to participate on

affiliated route basis, in view of the condition stipulated in Section-5 .2.1 fixing annual capacity at least of 7 MTPA has no

nexus or co-relation with object sought to be achieved. It is

further contended that the petitioners have already made

representation justifying their request for reducing the pre-

qualification of annual capacity from 7 MTPA to 4-6 MTPA by

relying on the chart to indicate the prevailing trade practice

followed by different Public Sector Undertakings (PSUs) in fixing

minimum qualifying criteria while floating the similar tenders. In

spite of request being made by the petitioners by way of

representation vide communication dated 12.03.2017, since the

opposite party has not accepted to revise or clarify the relevant

sections of RFQ, as sought by the petitioner no.1, it has become

imperative to prefer the instant writ petition. The further

contention of learned Senior Counsel for the petitioner is that

such irrelevant, arbitrary and irrational technical qualification

requirement stipulated under Section-5 .2.1 in the RFQ dated 8 12.12.2016 is merely to exclude the petitioners from the zone of

consideration for appointment as MO for the project. Therefore,

challenge has been made to Section-5 .2.1 of the RFQ to the effect

that in order to be eligible, bidders should have produced 3 MT of

coal/lignite in any calendar year during ten calendar years

preceding the date of opening of the qualification proposal for a

coal mine having geological/mineable reserves of at least 150 MT

and annual capacity of at least 7 MTPA is arbitrary,

discriminatory, unreasonable, irrelevant and irrational to the

extent that requirement of such experience in relation to mines

with annual capacity of 7 MTPA. As such, denial of opportunity to

the petitioners from participation at the subsequent stage of

tender process, is arbitrary and unfair. Therefore, in exercise of

extra ordinary jurisdiction and power of judicial review, this Court

should interfere with the condition stipulated in Section-5 .2.1 and

quash the same. To substantiate his contention, he has relied

upon the judgments of the apex Court in Union of India v.

Dinesh Engineering Corporation, (2001) 8 SCC 491;

Chittaranjan Mishra v. State of Odisha, 2016 (II) OLR 735; and

Nagarjuna Trust Company v. Delhi Jal Board, 157 (2009) DLT 560. 9 7. Mr. Sanjit Mohanty, learned Senior Counsel appearing

along with Mr. R.R. Swain, learned counsel for opposite party

refuted the argument advanced by Senior Counsel for the

petitioners and justified the reasonable nexus of fixing of 7 MTPA

in Section-5 .2.1 and contended that such condition is wholly and

fully justified. It is contended that the present RFQ having been

issued to select an MO, which will produce coal from the

Manoharpur coal mine to cater the End Use of the power plant of

OPGC. The stipulation fixed in Section 5 .2.1 of the RFQ dated

12.12.2016 states that the bidder must have been awarded a

mining contract for development and operation of single

coal/lignite mine having a reserve of at least 150 MT with annual

capacity at least 7 MTPA and should have produced at least 3 MT

of coal/lignite from such mine in any one calendar year during the

last ten (10) calendar years preceding the date of opening of the

qualification proposal, i.e., calendar year 2007-2016 has a

rational nexus behind the object sought to be achieved, i.e., to

meet the fuel requirement of OPGC. The annual capacity of at

least 7 MTPA means, the annual production capacity of the mines

should be at least 7 MTPA. The End Use plant coal requirement

being 7.5 MTPA of coal, the stipulation of working of development

and operation of a coal mine of at least 7 MTPA has a rational 10 nexus behind the object sought to be achieved, i.e., to meet the

End Use requirement of the power plant of OPGC. Therefore, Section 5 .2.1 of RFQ cannot be termed as irrelevant, arbitrary,

unreasonable or discriminatory. In response to the request made

by the petitioners in letter dated 09.01.2017 to amend the

requirement of annual capacity from 7 MTPA to 4-6 MTPA,

opposite party has already clarified that the existing provisions of Section 5 .2.1 of RFQ would prevail. There is justifiable reason for

the said fixation, when as per mining plan, Manoharpur mining

plan has got capacity of 8 MTPA and requirement of coal is 7.50

MTPA. Therefore, minimum requirement has been fixed as 7

MTPA under Section-5 .2.1 as eligible criteria. Thereby, no illegality

or irregularity has been committed by the authority concerned in

fixation of such condition and, more so, the condition of the

contract cannot be interfered with in exercise of power of judicial

review. It is further contended that six bidders have participated

in the process of selection and none of them have been made as

parties to the proceeding, even though the said fact was brought

to the notice of the petitioners by way of filing counter affidavit.

Therefore, otherwise also, the writ petition suffers from non-

joinder of proper parties and the same is liable to be dismissed. 11 In order to substantiate his contention, he has relied

upon the judgments of the apex Court in the case of Tata

Cellular v. Union of India , AIR 1996 SC 11; Directorate of

Education and others v. Educomp Datamatics Ltd. , (2004) 4

SCC 19; Michigan Rubber (India) Limited v. State of Karnatak

and others , (2012) 8 SCC 216; Central Coalfields Limited v.

SLL-SML (Joint Venture Consortium ), AIR 2016 SC 3814; and Afcons Infrastructure Ltd. v. Nagpur Metro Rail Corporation

Ltd. , AIR 2016 SC 4305. 8. Having heard learned counsel for the parties and

after perusing the records, since pleadings between the parties

have been exchanged, with the consent of the learned counsel for

the parties, this writ petition is being disposed of finally at the

stage of admission. 9. Undisputedly, the opposite party issued request for

qualification (RFQ) of selection of MO for the operation of

Manoharpur Coal mine Project in the district of Sundargarh,

Odisha through ICB pursuant to NIT No. OCPL/33/2016 dated

12.12.2016. The cost of RFQ document was fixed as Rs.52,500/-

including VAT @ 5% and operation period was mentioned as ten

years. The last date for download/sale of RFQ document was 12 fixed to 20.02.2016 and date of submission/opening was fixed to

31.01.2017. For just and proper adjudication of the case, the

relevant Sections mentioned in RFQ are extracted hereunder: OPGC is establishing the End Use Plant based on supercritical
 technology as a part of their capacity addition. In a bid to secure
 fuel supply for the End Use Plant, the MoC, has allotted two
 contiguous coal blocks, the Manoharpur (fully explored with net
 geological reserves of 186.00 MT) and the dip side of Manoharpur
 (regionally explored with indicative geological reserves of 350MT)
 coal blocks, located in Ib Valley coalfields in the state of Odisha, to
 OCPL for supply of coal exclusively for use in the End Use Plant.
 The construction of the End Use Plant is in full swing and is on
 schedule. OCPL proposes to appoint a contractor with proven professional
 track record and experience in the development, operation and
 maintenance of coal mines as the Mine Operator. With this RFQ,
 following a process of international competitive bidding, OCPL 13 seeks Qualification Proposals from prospective bidders ("Bidders")
to work as the Mine Operator at the Manoharpur Coal Mine and
perform the indicative scope of work illustrated in Section 3 .5 of
the RFQ. 2. DEFINITIONS AND RULES OF INTERPRETATION. 'Affiliate' means and includes with respect to any company,
corporation or incorporated entity, any other company, corporation
or incorporated entity directly or indirectly Controlling, Controlled
by such company, corporation or incorporated entity or under the
common Control of the same company, corporation or incorporated
entity who controls such company, corporation or incorporated
entity and shall include Holding and Subsidiary Companies. For
the purpose of this RFQ, "control" in relation to any company,
corporation or incorporated entity shall mean: (a) ownership or
control (whether directly or otherwise) of more than fifty percent
(50%) of the equity share capital, voting rights or the like of the
controlled company, corporation or incorporated entity; or (b)
ownership of equity share capital, voting rights, or the like by
contract or otherwise, conferring control of, power to control the
composition of, or power to appoint more than fifty percent (50%) of
the members of the board of directors, board of management, or
other equivalent body of the controlled entity. xx xx xx

'End Use Plant' means the 2X660 MW thermal power project of
OPGC, at Banharpalli, in the Jharsuguda District of Odisha, India. xx xx xx

 'Qualified Bidder' means a Bidder who meets the qualification
requirements set out in Section 5 and is declared by OCPL to be
qualified to participate in the second (RFP) stage of the bidding
process, based on an evaluation of the Qualification Proposal.

'Qualification Proposal' means a proposal submitted by a
Bidder in response to this RFQ to qualify for the submission of a
bid for award of the Agreement(s), which shall be in the formant
prescribed at Annexure A.

'RFP' means a request for proposals that may be issued by OCPL
to Qualified Bidders, for the purpose of awarding the Agreement(s).

'RFQ' means this request for qualifications dated 12th December,
2016. xx xx xx

'Technically Qualified' means a company, corporation or
incorporated entity that meets the technical qualification
requirement, as indicated in Section 5 .2. The information in this section is provided for the general guidance
of the Bidders:  Contract for testing of coal core
 samples has been awarded to
 Institute of Minerals and Materials
 Technology (IMMT). Work has been
 commenced.  All the necessary permissions for the
 drilling operation is in place. The indicative scope of work, which will be detailed and may be
amended in RFP, to be undertaken by the MO shall include, among
other things, the following : 5.1.1 Nature of Bidder

A Bidder may be a Mine Owner and operator or just a Mine Operator.
In case both the Mine Owner and Mine operator (MDO/Contractor)
claims experience of same mine then the experience of the Mine
Operator (MDO/Contractor) shall be considered.

5.2 Technical Qualification Requirement

 For a Bidder to be Technically Qualified, it must have : 16: The mine considered to meet qualifying criteria at Section
 5 .2.2(b) can also be considered for meeting qualifying
 requirement at Section 5 .2.2(a). The Bidder may seek qualification from only one route as
 mentioned below : (b) If the Bidder is Technically Qualified and seeks qualification
 with support of an Affiliate who is Financially Qualified, the
 Bidder shall provide an undertaking from its Financially
 Qualified Affiliate in which the Financially Qualified Affiliate
 agrees to : (i) be jointly and severally liable for the Selected
 Bidder's obligations under the Agreement(s); (ii) furnish a
 corporate guarantee (in shape of a Bank Guarantee) as
 specified in the Agreements in addition to the required
 contract performance security to be furnished by the Bidder
 for the term of Agreement from such Affiliate; and (iii)
 furnish its audited financial statements providing
 information as per Section 5 .3 above. (c) If the Bidder is Financially Qualified and seeks qualification
 with support of an Affiliate who is Technically Qualified, the
 Bidder shall provide an undertaking from its Technically
 Qualified Affiliate in which the Technically Qualified 20 Affiliate agrees to (i) be jointly and severally liable for
 Bidder's obligations under the Agreement(s); and (ii) furnish
 a corporate guarantee (in the shape of a Bank Guarantee)
 as specified in the Agreements in addition to the required
 contract performance security to be furnished by the Bidder. (d) The Bidder seek qualification relying on an Affiliate who is
 both Financially Qualified and Technically Qualified. The
 Bidder shall provide an undertaking from its Financially
 Qualified and Technically Qualified Affiliate in which the
 Affiliate agrees to : (i) be jointly and severally liable for the
 Selected Bidder's obligations under the Agreement(s); (ii)
 furnish a corporate guarantee ( in the shape of a Bank
 Guarantee) as specified in the Agreements in addition to the
 required contract performance security to be furnished by
 the Bidder; and (iii) furnish its audited financial statements
 providing information as per Section 5 .3 above.

The Bidder together with its supporting Affiliate shall be
Technically Qualified and Financially Qualified. It is clarified
that the Bidder may rely on the financial qualification and/or
technical qualification only of any one of its Affiliates.

5.4.3 Qualification Route- C (Consortium Route)

 i. Bidders may form a Bidding Consortium, which shall
 comprise of only two members. ii. One of the members will be designated the lead member of
 the Bidding Consortium. The lead member and the second
 member shall hold a minimum of 51% and 26% of the paid-
 up equity share capital of the Project Company,
 respectively. iii. The Qualification Proposal must be submitted in the name
 of the Bidding Consortium signed by the Authorised
 Representative of the lead member. iv. The financial strengths of only the lead member shall be
 considered for meeting the entire financial criteria as
 stipulated in Section 5 .3. However, the minimum financial
 strength of the other member shall also be at least 20% of
 the financial criteria as specified in Section 5 .3
 v. The technical strength of only the second/other member
 shall be considered for meeting the entire technical criteria
 as specified in Section 5 .2.2. However, the minimum
 technical strength of the lead member shall also be at least
 20% of the technical criteria as specified in Section 5 .2.2(a)
 only. xx xx xx" 10. In Corrigendum-1 to the NIT No. OCPL/33/2016 dated

12.12.1016 issued on 23rd December, 2016, the Section 4 .2 bidding

schedule has been mentioned as follows: In Section 5 .2 (Technical qualification requirement) in place of "financial

year" it has been modified to "calendar year" in Section 5 .2.1. The

"calendar year" means continuous period of 12 months from 1st

January to 31st December. 11. In Corrigendum-2 to the NIT No.OCPL/33/2016 dated

12.12.2016 issued on 6th March, 2017, Clause 4.2 the bidding schedule

reads thus: 2. Clause 5.2.2(c)

 Existing Provision Modified Provision
 Experience in deploying, operating and Experience in deploying,
 maintaining within a mine (i) dump trucks operating and maintaining
 of 50 Ton (Short Ton) payload capacity or within a mine (i) dump
 more and (ii) loading trucks of 50 Ton (Short
 units/shovel/excavator of 5 cubic meter Ton) payload capacity or
 bucket capacity or more. more and (ii) loading
 units/shovel/excavator of
 5 cubic meter bucket
 capacity or more. 3. Clause v of 5.4.3 [Qualification Route -C (Consortium Route)] : 12. Mr. Arvind Verma, learned Senior Counsel appearing

for the petitioner, referring to Section 5 .2.1, contended that a

bidder, to be technically qualified, must have been awarded a

mining contract for development and operation of a single

coal/lignite mine (i) having a reserve at least 150 MT (ii) with

annual capacity 7 MTPA and (iii) should have produced at least 3

MT of coal/lignite from such mine in any one calendar year during

the ten calendar years preceding the date of opening of the 24 qualification proposal (as specified in Section 4 .2), i.e., calendar

year 2006-07 to calendar year 2015-16. Unless the three

conditions, as mentioned above, are satisfied a bidder will not be

technically qualified. It is contended that by fixing annual capacity

of at least 7 MTPA no reasonable nexus has been sought to be

achieved when at least 3 MT of coal/lignite from such mine in any

one calendar year during the ten calendar years preceding the

date of opening of the qualification proposal is required.

Therefore, fixation of annual capacity of at least 7 MTPA is

arbitrary, unreasonable and irrational, and such condition should

be modified fixing only capacity of 4-6 MTPA as per request made

by the petitioners. In course of hearing, a query was made by this

Court to the extent that whether the petitioners were alleging any

mala fide or bias against the opposite party in fixation of

requirement of Section 5 .2.1. With all fairness, Mr. A. Verma,

learned Senior Counsel appearing for the petitioners admitted that

there was no allegation of mala fide or bias by the petitioners

against the opposite party in fixation of terms and conditions as

per Section 5 .2.1. Therefore, the Court proceeded with the matter

to decide the conditions stipulated in Section 5 .2.1 whether

arbitrary, unreasonable and irrational. 13. Mr. S. Mohanty, learned Senior Counsel appearing for

the opposite party argued with vehemence that the conditions

stipulated in Section 5 .2.1 is wholly justified and as such, it is not

arbitrary, unreasonable or irrational so as to warrant interference

of this Court in exercise of power of judicial review under Article

226 of the Constitution of India. In order to justify the same, it is

contended that the present requirement of coal in the End Use

plant of OPGC situated at Ib-Termal Power Station, Banharpali,

Jharsuguda is around 7.5 MTPA, which has been stated in Section 3 .1 "End Use Plant's Coal Requirement" of RFQ. The

present RFQ has been issued to select an operator who will

produce coal from the Manoharpur Coal mine to cater the End

Use of the power plant of OPGC. The stipulation in Section 5 .2.1

of the RFQ dated 12.12.2016 categorically states that the bidder

must have been awarded a mining contract for development and

operation of single coal/lignite mine having a reserve of at least

150 MT with annual capacity of at least 7 MTPA and should have

produced at least 3 MT of coal/lignite from such mine in any one

calendar year during the last ten calendar years preceding the

date of opening of the qualification proposal, (i.e., calendar year

2007-2016) has a rational nexus behind the object sought to be

achieved, i.e., to meet the fuel requirement of OPGC. The annual 26 capacity of at least 7 MTPA means, the annual production

capacity of the mines should be at least 7 MPTA as per the mining

plan. The End Use plant's coal requirement being 7.5 MTPA of

coal, the stipulation of working of development and operation of a

coal mine of at least 7 MTPA thus has a rational nexus behind the

object sought to be achieved. The stipulation as stated in Section

5 .2.1 of the RFQ thus cannot be termed as irrelevant, arbitrary,

unreasonable and discriminatory. 14. The stipulation of Section 5 .2.1 of RFQ dated

12.12.2016 has been amended vide issuance of Corrigendum

dated 23.12.2016 and by another Corrigendum dated 06.03.2017. Section 4 of RFQ provides for two stage bidding process. Stage-I is

for identification of qualified bidders and stage-II is for selection of

the mine operator. Therefore, for the purpose of stage-I, i.e. for

identification of qualified bidders, the RFQ has been issued. The

opposite party is at the first stage of identifying the qualified

bidders under the RFQ issued on 12.12.2016 which has been

modified by Corrigendum dated 23.12.2016 and 06.03.2017. Section-5 .4 of RFQ provides for submission of proposal in three

different qualification routes, i.e., Route-A- Direct Route under Section 5 .4.1; Route-B- Affiliate Route under Section 5 .4.2; and

Route-C- Consortium Route under Section 5 .4.3. In terms of 27 Section 4 .2 of RFQ dated 12.12.2016 a pre-bid qualification

meeting was held on 10.01.2017 and queries/clarifications/

suggestions/requests were received from various intending

bidders including the present petitioners on various issues and

the same were responded by the opposite party on 12.03.2017.

On Section- 3 .1, bidders requested to clarify the actual

requirement of End Use of plant as at the top of the RFQ

documents mentioned "Mahoharpur OCP-8 MTPA", but the End

Use plant's requirement was 7.5 MTPA. The opposite party

clarified that the peak rated capacity of the mine is 8 MTPA. The

production expectation from Manoharpur mine is 8 MTPA +/- 10%

based on requirement of End Use plant of OPGC. The petitioners

had also requested vide Annexure-15 dated 09.01.2017 to amend

the requirement of annual capacity from 7 MTP to 4-6 MTPA, but

the opposite party clarified that the existing provisions of Section

5 .2.1 of RFQ will prevail. Reason being any deviation regarding

supply of coal from Manoharpur coal mine will ultimately affect

the generation of electricity in the power plant of OPGC situated at

Banharpali, Jharsuguda and will lead to initiation of proceeding

by Ministry of Coal to cancel the coal block as the operation and

supply of coal by OPCL to OPGC is a time bound programme and

for End Use plant of OPGC. Therefore, the opposite party has 28 prescribed the terms and conditions in notice inviting tender/RFQ

documents keeping in consideration the nature and scope of the

work and in such matter, the authority calling for the tender is the

best judge to fix the conditions of the notice inviting tender/RFQ

documents. In RFQ documents Section-5 .2, which speaks of

technical qualification requirement, contains two parts, namely Section 5 .2.1, Section 5 .2.2. Therefore, for a bidder to be

technically qualified either he has to satisfy the Section 5 .2.1 or Section 5 .2.2. The choice has been given to the bidders to qualify

technically either in Section 5 .2.1 or in Section 5 .2.2. Therefore,

the scope is wide open to attract a large number of bidders so as

to enable the opposite party to get best choice and best person to

allocate the work in RFQ. 15. The authority inviting tender should have a free hand

in setting the terms of the tender as per its requirement. The

authority should have reasonable play in its joints as a necessary

concomitant for an administrative body in administrative sphere.

Choice in balancing the pros and cons lies with the authority

inviting tender. Needless to say that the opposite party had

furnished a bank guarantee of 153 crores to the nominated

authority, Ministry of Coal, Government of India in consonance

with the conditions of the allotment agreement and such 29 guarantee has been given to achieve the target/milestone. The

present RFQ has been issued for 1320 MW End Use power plant

of OPGC. The coal requirement of 1320 MW power plant at 100%

PLF (Plant Load Factor) would come to 8 MTPA. Therefore, the

headnote of RFQ has clearly stated "Request for Qualification-

Mine Operator/Manoharpur OCP-8 MTPA". The mining plan for

Manoharpur Coal mining has also been approved for 8 MTPA. The

plant of OPGC approximately runs between 85% and 100% PLF

and if the plant runs at 85% PLF then it would require 7 MTPA.

Therefore, the stipulation in Section 5 .2.1 of RFQ that the bidder

should have experience in developing and operating a single

coal/lignite mine having a reserve of at least 150 MT with annual

production capacity (of that mine) of at least 7 MTPA and should

have produced at least 3 MT of coal/lignite from such mine in any

one calendar year during the ten calendar years preceding the

date of opening of the qualification proposal has a rational nexus

behind the object sought to be achieved, i.e., to meet the End Use

requirement of the power plant of OPGC. 16. It is settled law that the terms of the invitation to

tender are not open to challenge as they are in the realm of

contract unless they are wholly arbitrary, discriminatory or

actuated with malice. The issuance of notice inviting tender/RFQ 30 documents by OPCL and stipulation therein is purely a policy

decision in a non-statutory contract and has a rational nexus

sought to be achieved, i.e., to meet the captive requirement of

OPGC power plant Banharpali, Jharsuguda. Therefore, terms and

conditions of tender/RFQ documents are legal, rational and

lawful. 17. The petitioners claim that the technical qualifications

of the petitioner no.1 and its affiliate, being the petitioner no.2,

would be cumulatively considered for meeting the qualification

requirement stipulated in Section 5 .2.1 of the RFQ. But in

paragraph-2 of the writ application it has been categorically

mentioned that petitioner no.1 intends to participate in the said

tender through the 'Affiliate Route' as per Section 5 .4.2 of the

RFQ by also relying on the technical qualifications of its affiliate

(subsidiary company), namely, Jindal Power Limited, the

petitioner no.2. As per the stipulation regarding experience in

developing and operating a single coal/lignite mine of 7 MTPA

annual production capacity has been clearly stipulated in Section

5 .2.1 of RFQ. The petitioners have admitted that they do not have

experience in developing and operating a single coal/lignite mine

of 7 MTPA annual production capacity, as they have experience of

6.25 MTPA annual production capacity. Consequentially, the 31 petitioners are ineligible to participate in the RFQ dated

12.12.2016 in terms of stipulation in Section 5 .2.1. 18. Mr. S. Mohanty, learned Senior Counsel appearing for

the opposite party contended that the petitioners have not

possessed single mine as required under the terms and conditions

of the RFQ and, therefore, they are otherwise also ineligible to

participate in the bid process. In order to substantiate such

contention, he has relied upon the pleadings available in the writ

petition in paragraphs 2, 4, 7 and 9 and also paragraph-7 of the

counter affidavit, wherein it has been specifically mentioned that

despite the fact that petitioner no.2 (affiliate of petitioner no.1)

with whose support petitioner no.1 in terms of Section 5 .4.2

intends to participate in the present RFQ, has developed and

operated (as mine owner till 31.03.2015) Gare Palma IV/2 and

IV/3 coal mine with geological reserve of 246.84 MT, mineable

reserves of 187.19 MT and has had annual production of coal up

to 6.25 MT in the relevant financial year and 6.47 MT in the

relevant calendar year. It is contended that petitioner no.2 does

not have a single coal mine with the requirement of RFQ as single

coal mine and to substantiate his contention, reliance has been

placed on the judgment of the apex Court in Manohar Lal

Sharma v. Principal Secretary and others , 2014 (9) SCC 614, 32 at page 628 where cancellation of two mines of the petitioner

therein, as alleged, has been mentioned, when under the RFQ

requires production of 7 MTPA capacity from a single mine, but

the Gare Palma IV/2 and IV/3 coal mines together have got an

annual capacity of 6.25 MTPA. Therefore, it does not fulfill the

requirement of the other conditions also as stipulated in RFQ. 19. Mr. Arvind Verma, learned Senior Counsel appearing

for the petitioners has made an endeavour to dislodge the

contention of learned counsel for the opposite party referring to

Auditors' Certificate in Anneuxre-6, where it has been specifically

mentioned that capacity of the Gare Palma IV/2 and IV/3 coal

mine is 6.25 MTPA. Accordingly, it was certified that the year wise

coal production and over burden (OB) removal, extractable

reserves of the previously allotted coal blocks and mine peak

production capacity as per the latest approved mine plan dated

03.08.2009 of Gare Palma IV/2 and IV/3 is 6.25 MTPA. 20. However, we are not delving into such issue in the

peculiar circumstances of the case that when minimum

requirement as per the terms and conditions of RFQ Section 5 .2.1

is 7 MTPA, admittedly the petitioners through affiliate route have

only the annual capacity of 6.25 MTPA and, more so the condition 33 stipulated in the RFQ, that the bidder must have been awarded a

mining contract for development and operation of a single

coal/lignite mine, has to be adhered to. We refrain from making

any observation whether the petitioners have got a single

coal/lignite mine, as per the requirement of Section 5 .2.1, or not.

This factual aspect can only be considered by the tender inviting

authority and not by the writ Court. 21. Relying upon the judgment of Afcons Infrastructure

Ltd. (supra), the opposite party raised an objection that the writ

application is not maintainable due to non-joinder of parties. It is

contended that in paragraph 15 of the counter affidavit it has

been specifically mentioned that in terms of the order dated

21.03.2017 of this Court, the petitioners had submitted their bid

pursuant to RFQ dated 12.12.2016. Apart from the petitioners,

six other bidders, namely, (1) Triveni-Sainik Consortium, (2) BGR

Mining & Infra Pvt. Ltd., (3) Thiess India Pvt. Ltd., (4) Montecarlo-

Mahalaxmi Consortium, (5) Essel Mining & Industries Ltd., and (6)

Adani Enterprises Ltd. have also submitted their bids and the

same was within the knowledge of the petitioners. Hence, in

absence of those parties the writ application is not maintainable. In paragraph 18 of the judgment of Afcons Infrastructure Ltd. (supra), the Supreme Court, while concluding, pointed out that 34 the High Court was of the opinion that the eligible bidders were

not entitled to be either impleaded in the petition filed in the High

Court by the ineligible bidder GYT-TPL JV or were not entitled to

be heard. But the Supreme Court opined that it is to avoid such a

situation that it would be more appropriate for the constitutional

Courts to insist on all eligible bidders being made parties to the

proceedings filed by an unsuccessful or ineligible bidder. Mr.

Arvind Verma, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the

petitioners states that by the time the petitioners approached this

Court, it was not made known to the petitioners that who had

participated in the process of RFQ. By way of counter affidavit

filed by the parties this thing has been disclosed for the first time.

Therefore, the petitioners are justified in not impleading the

intending bidders as parties, pursuant to RFQ dated 12.12.2016.

But, in our view, that by itself cannot be a ground for not

impleading the bidders who have participated pursuant to RFQ

and have been disclosed in the counter affidavit. In that view of

the matter, keeping in view the ratio decided in Afcons

Infrastructure Ltd. (supra), the writ application suffers from

non-joinder of parties. 22. In Tata Cellular (supra), the apex Court in paragraph

84 of the judgment has held as follows: Considering the various judgments of the Supreme

Court, in paragraph 113 it further held as follows: Applying the above ratio and principle laid down by the Supreme

Court to the present context, the decision must not only be tested

by the application of Wednesbury principle of reasonableness

including its other facts pointed out above, but must be free from

arbitrariness, not affected by bias or actuated by mala fides. In the

present case, admittedly the petitioners have not alleged any mala

fides or bias against the opposite party, while fixing the conditions

in Section 5 .2.1. 23. The scope and power of the Court to interfere with a

contractual matter is well justified in various judgments of the

apex Court, namely, Tata Cellular v. Union of India , AIR 1996

SC 11; Master Marine Service (P) Ltd. v. Metcafe &

Hodgkinson (P) Ltd. , (2005) 6 SCC 138; Sterling Computers

Ltd. v. M & N Publications Ltd. , (1993) 1 SCC 445; M/s. B. S. N.

Joshi and Sons Ltd v. Nair Coal Services Ltd. , AIR 2007 SC

437; Reliance Airport Developers (P) Ltd. v. Airports Authority

of India , (2006) 10 SCC 1; Siemens Public Communication

Networks Private Limited and another v. Union of India and

others, (2008) 16 SCC 215. In M/s Star Enterprises and others v. City and

Industrial Development Corporation of Maharashtra Ltd. and

others , (1990) 3 SCC 280, the apex Court in paragraph 10 of the

judgment held as follows: 24. In Food Corporation of India v. M/s. Kamdhenu

Cattle Feed Industries, AIR 1993 SC 1601, the apex Court in

paragraph 7 of the judgment ruled as follows: 25. In Mahabir Auto Stores and others v. Indian Oil corporation and others, AIR 1990 SC 1031, the apex Court

observed in paragraph 12 of the judgment as follows: Similar view has also been taken by the Supreme Court in Educomp Datamatics Ltd. and Michigan Rubber (India) 40 Limited (supra) and also by this Court in M/s. D.K. Engineering

and Construction v. State of Odisha and another , 2016(II) ILR-

CUT-515;. In view of the law discussed above, this Court observed

that the rights of citizens are in the nature of contractual rights,

the manner, the method and motive of a decision of entering or

not entering into a contract, are subject to judicial review on the

touchstone of relevance and reasonableness, fair play, natural

justice, equality and non-discrimination in the type of the

transactions and nature of the dealing, as in the present case.

Therefore, this Court has every justified reason not to exercise the

power of judicial review in the present context. 26. In Central Coalfields Limited (supra), while

considering the form of Bank Guarantee prescribed in bid

documents, which is an essential requirement, the rejection of the

bid not accompanied by the Bank Guarantee in form prescribed in

the bid documents treating as non-responsive in view of the

general terms and conditions governing the bid process, the

Supreme Court held that it is not arbitrary, unreasonable, or

perverse and not open to judicial review. Applying the same to the

present context, if Section 5 .2.1 stipulates a condition and the

same is not actuated with mala fides or bias, the same cannot be 41 termed as arbitrary, unreasonable or perverse and, as such, the

same is not open to judicial review. 27. Reliance was placed by the learned Senior Counsel

appearing for the petitioners on Chittaranjan Mishra (supra).

Factually, the said case is distinguishable from the present one, in

view of the fact that in the said case the reason of enhancement of

the security deposits, E.M.D. and Solvency Certificate, as had

been indicated in the tender call notice, had not been indicated

anywhere save and except reliance being placed on the letter of

the Commissioner-cum-Secretary to Government, School and

Mass Education Department, Odisha in Annexure-E/3 dated

13.03.2015 and to obligate the same, reply had also been given by

the petitioner therein in the rejoinder affidavit dated 17.07.2016

explaining the position that how misappropriation, pilferage and

shortage of rice had been safeguarded by the action of the State

authorities. Therefore, in the said case it was held that imposition

of conditions in the tender document depriving the small transport

contractors to participate in the bid amounts to arbitrary and

unreasonable exercise of powers by the authority. More so, it was

held that such conditions had been incorporated with a mala fide

intention to favour a group of persons having single tender in

respect of the areas to which transportation was to be made and, 42 as such, time and again, the apex Court has deprecated the

practice of awarding contract in favour of single tender. In the said

case it was also clarified that the Government and their

undertakings must have a free hand to set the term of the

condition of the tender in exercise of such powers and that once

the conditions of the tender have been fixed, the Court cannot

interfere in exercise of judicial review under Article 226 of the

Constitution of India. But a rider has been given that where

conditions, so stipulated are arbitrary, discriminatory and mala

fide and based on bias, in that case the Court can interfere. Since

no mala fide or bias has been raised in the present application,

the judgment of this Court in Chittaranjan Mishra (supra) is

distinguishable. 28. In Dinesh Engineering Corporation (supra), on

which reliance was also placed by the learned Senior Counsel

appearing for the petitioners, the apex Court, having found that by

putting a condition it would lead to monopoly in the hands of a

group of persons capable of giving higher EMD, security deposits

and solvency certificates, deprecated such monopoly of a

particular company. But the facts of the said case are not

applicable to the present context. In view of the fact that, in the

instant case, there are six bidders pursuant to the RFQ, the 43 question of monopoly does not arise. Thereby , the said judgment is also distinguishable. Similarly, the ratio of Nagarjuna Trust

 Company (supra) has also no application. As such, each case has

 to be considered on the basis of its own facts and circumstances

 unless and otherwise the ratio laid down has got any application

 to the facts of the present context. More so, the judgments so

 referred to in Dinesh Engineering Corporation and Nagarjuna

 Trust Company (supra) have no application to the present

 context. 29. Considering the matter factually and legally, as

 discussed above, we are of the considered view that the writ

 application merits no consideration and, as such, the same is

 hereby dismissed. No order to cost. Sd/- (VINEET SARAN )
 CHIEF JUSTICE

 Sd/- (DR. B.R. SARANGI )
 JUDGE

The High Court of Orissa, Cuttack
The 14th September, 2017/Ashok/GDS/Ajaya

 True Copy

 Sr. Steno