Per: Ms. Meera Swarup, Technical Member

 Two appeals have been filed against order dated May
27, 2022 passed by the AO, SEBI1 for violation of Regulation
3(a), (b), (c) and (d), 4(1), 4(2)(a) and (e) of PFUTP
Regulations2. Appeal No. 621 of 2022 was filed by Pat
Financial Consultants Pvt. Ltd. (Pat - Noticee No. 2) and
Appeal No. 622 of 2022 was filed by Gandiv Investment Pvt.
Ltd. (Gandiv - Noticee No. 1). As the impugned order is
common to the appellants, both the appeals are being taken
up together and disposed of by this common order. Adjudicating Officer, Securities and Exchange Board of India 2 SEBI (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices relating to Securities
 Market) Regulations, 2003 3 2. The brief facts of the case are as follows: 3. Further, the order dated January 24, 2019 was then
challenged before this Tribunal with respect to the penalty
of Rs. 5 lakh levied on Pat and Rs. 10 lakh levied on Gandiv.
The penalties were imposed for manipulating the price of
the scrip during the investigation period from November 15,
2012 to October 9, 2014. This Tribunal vide order dated
October 6, 2021 in Appeal No. 228 of 2019 and 229 of 2019
remanded the case to the AO, SEBI to decide the matter
afresh stating that the Tribunal could not find any evidence
or discussion to show as to how the figure of last traded
price (LTP) of Rs. 26/- was arrived at by the respondent and
that the charge levelled against the appellants should have
been elaborated by discussion of the evidence on record
showing the increase in LTP. Further, this Tribunal directed
the respondent to consider the total number of trades
executed by the appellants, which were below or equal to
the LTP and consider the impacts of these trades while
giving their findings. 4. Subsequently, on May 27, 2022 the respondent
passed the impugned order wherein it was held that the
appellants in the aforementioned appeals have significantly
contributed to positive LTP and new high price (NHP) and
had manipulated the scrip of Ponni Sugars. The appellants
have therefore violated the provisions of Regulation 3(a), (b), (c) and (d), 4(1), 4(2)(a) and (e) of PFUTP Regulations.
Thus, a penalty of Rs. 10 lakh was imposed on Pat and that
of Rs. 15 lakh was imposed on Gandiv under Section 15HA of the SEBI Act. 5. We have heard Shri Neville Lashkari, learned Advoate
for the appellants, wherein he contended that appellants
were large traders and majority of their trades were at or
below LTP. It was submitted by the appellants that in large
volume of trades some trades would be above the LTP and
hence they cannot be termed as manipulative or fraudulent.
It was further submitted by Shri Lashkari that respondent
has not alleged any inter-se trades between the notices to
the SCN and the trades were with unconnected third parties.
Shri Lashkari also contended that the said impugned order
is vindictive in nature as on the same set of facts, the earlier
adjudication order dated January 24, 2019 had imposed
lesser penalties of Rs. 5 lakh and Rs. 10 lakh whereas the
impugned order has imposed a penalty of Rs. 10 lakh and
Rs. 15 lakh on Pat and Gandiv respectively. 6. Shri Lashkari submitted with regard to impugned
trades in case of Pat, the appellant had 216 trades above
LTP, 187 trades below LTP and 232 trades at LTP. The
appellants submitted that the difference in the price is from
5 paise to Rs. 7 and that all the trades were with
unconnected parties. Shri Lashkari submitted that it is not 5 even contended by the respondent that the shares were
available at a lower price and that the respondent's
contention that the appellant contributed to 216 trades at
above LTP is untenable as there were 419 trades which were
not above LTP. Shri Lashkari further submitted that the
impugned order notes that the appellant contributed about
18.2% of the total market positive in LTP, however, the
respondent has not considered that the balance 82% were
contributed by the third parties and no action was taken
against them. Shri Lashkari submitted that the 10 instances
given in the impugned order (Table 22) showing Pat's high
LTP trades in nearly all instances the unconnected third-
party seller had placed the orders earlier in time at a price
higher then the LTP which was merely accepted by the
appellant as a buyer. The respondent's allegation that the
51 trades done by appellant at NHP is not tenable as no
details have been given. Shri Lashkari stated that the
respondent has not made allegation of any collusion
whatsoever between the appellants and any of their several
counter-parties and that the impugned order does not allege
that there was any connection between the appellants and
Ponni Sugars and / or their directors or promoters, or that
they made any unjust profit / wrongful gain or avoided any
loss. Further, none of the counterparties have been
penalized. Shri Lashkari further submitted that no allegation
of pump and dump is alleged on them and that the
respondent has to established a collusion between the buyer
and the seller, which is lacking in this case. 7. Shri Lashkari submitted that with regard to Gandiv,
the impugned order does not show that any shares were
available at lower prices when they placed the buy orders. If
there were any trades available at lower prices, trade would
have been executed at that price. He submitted that out of 6 the total trades done by them on Patch 2, 37 trades were at
LTP, 7 trades were below LTP and only 38 trades were
above LTP. Further in Table 11, where 5 instances were
shown as top trades of positive LTP. For the four instances
mentioned in the impugned order (Table 11) there were
impending sell orders. In all the 5 cases appellants orders
were placed first and after pending for a while later the
prices had matched and converted into trades at a price
lower than the order price. Appellant contended that in case
there were shares available at lower prices then in such a
case as per the Stock Exchange's best price matching
system, the appellant would have gotten the benefit of
getting the shares at lower prices. 8. To sum up, as per both the appellants, the
respondent's case of price manipulation is based on mere
conjectures. There were no inter-se trades between the
appellants and there is no allegation of pump and dump
against the appellants. All the trades were admittedly with
completely unconnected third parties. The appellants have
no connection with the promoters or directors of Ponni
Sugars. Even the impugned order notes that the appellants
have made no disproportionate gain or derived unfair
advantage. Majority of trades carried out by the appellants
were at LTP or below LTP. The trades were only a rupee or
so above LTP and not at Rs. 26/- as alleged by the
respondent. All the trades can never be at LTP else there
would be no concept of price movement in the market.
Finally, no justification whatsoever has been given to
increase the penalty from that given in the previous order
though there are no change in facts. 9. Shri Sumit Rai, learned Advoate for the respondent
submitted that the appellants in both the appeals and Shri 7 Bharat Patel (Noticee 3) have colluded in increasing the
price of the scrip of Ponni Sugars. They contributed to the
price rise in the scrip by repeatedly placing buy order at
price higher than LTP and by placing buy order above
prevailing sell order price thereby significantly contributed
to positive LTP and NHP. Shri Rai further contended that Pat
traded through Finquest Securities Pvt. Ltd., wherein Mr.
Bharat Patel was a director; Mr. Bharat Patel was a director
of Gandiv and that there were funds transferred from Mr.
Bharat Patel to appellants. Shri Rai contended that the
appellants are repetitive violators and hence the penalty is
compounded. 10. Shri Rai submitted that the impugned order has noted
that due to the trades of the appellants there was an
increase in price of scrip in the Patch II from Rs. 235.45 to
Rs. 372 and during Patch IV from Rs. 90.1 to Rs. 239.15
while there were no corporate announcements made during
the said period. Shri Rai further submitted that appellant Pat
had made significant contribution to the LTP and NHP during
Patch IV of the IP. The appellant during Patch IV have
contributed to 18.13% of total market positive LTP and
34.57% of total market NHP at NSE and 23.35 of total
market positive LTP and 37.35 of total market NHP at BSE.
The net LTP contribution of Pat during Patch IV in NSE was
Rs. 69.25 and in BSE Rs. 43.05. Out of 635 buy trades done
by Pat, 216 trades led to positive LTP. During Patch IV of
the investigation period, the appellant, while trading as
buyer, made significant contribution of Rs. 51.30 to NHP
through 19 trades at NSE and of Rs. 57.10 through 13
trades at BSE. These 32 trades contributed to 35% of total
market NHP. Shri Rai submitted that the appellant
contributed to the price rise in the scrip by repeatedly
placing buy orders at price higher than LTP before sell 8 orders were available in the system and by placing buy
orders above prevailing sell order rate the appellant had
significantly contributed to positive LTP and NHP and
increased the price of the scrip. 11. Shri Rai submitted that in the case of Gandiv, the
appellant made significant contribution to the positive LTP
and NHP during Patch II of the IP. The impugned order
notes that out of 82 buy trades executed by Gandiv, 38
trades led to positive LTP. The contribution was about 57%
of the total market positive LTP. Gandiv contributed to
55.48% of total market positive LTP and 55.67% of total
market NHP at NSE and 57.66% of total market positive LTP
and 50.51% of total market NHP at BSE. Gandiv made
significant contribution to NHP through s9 trades at NSE and
through 10 trades at BSE. Shri Rai submitted that by placing
buy orders above prevailing sell order price, the appellant
had significantly contributed to positive LTP and NHP and
increased the price of the scrip. 12. In substance, the main argument of the respondent is
that the trading pattern of the appellants along with the
appellant's inter-se connection and fund movements
between the noticees indicates to manipulation of the price
of the scrip. The appellants failed to provide any plausible
explanation for placing the buy order first at higher than the
LTP and also for matching their trades with sell orders
placed higher than LTP. This goes against the basic norm
that a normal buyer buys scrip at the lowest possible price. 13. Having heard the learned counsels for both the parties
and on the basis of material before us, we are persuaded by
the respondent's argument that the trading pattern of both
the appellants indicate that their buy trades did lead to price
manipulation. Pat contributed to 21% of total market 9 positive LTP while Gandiv contributed more than 50% of
total market positive LTP in Patch IV and II respectively. The
appellants failed to give any reasons for placing the buy
orders above LTP except to say that majority of their trades
were at LTP or below LTP. In our view, placing substantial
number of buy orders above LTP goes against the basic
tenet of trading that the buyer would normally buy at the
lowest price possible while sellers would sell at the highest
price possible. No explanation was provided by the
appellants for the trading strategy adopted by them. We
also note that their contribution to NHP was also high at
35% of total market NHP by Pat and about 56% of total
market NHP by Gandiv. Thus, we are convinced that the
trading pattern of the appellants of placing buy orders above
the LTP led to price manipulation and creation of NHP and
was in violation of Regulation 3 and 4 of the PFUTP
Regulations. 14. However, we note with concern that the AO in the
impugned order has imposed penalty of Rs. 10 lakh on
Appellant No. 1 (Pat) and Rs. 15 lakh on Appellant No. 2
(Gandiv). Originally, vide adjudication order dated January
24, 2019, penalty of Rs. 5 lakh was imposed on Pat and Rs.
10 lakh on Gandiv under Section 15HA of SEBI Act.
Astonishingly, on remand the penalty has been enhanced
while there are no changes in facts of the case. The AO has
given no reasoning for the enhancement of penalty except
to indicate in paragraph 64 of the impugned order the past
instances wherein penalty was imposed on both the
appellants. In our view, the AO has totally erred in imposing
enhanced penalty without bringing out new facts / evidence
or reasoning. 15. We have noted that the appellants' defence that SEBI
has not alleged that the appellants made any
disproportionate gain, there are no allegations of connection
with the promoters of Ponni Sugars, no allegations has been
made regarding connection of appellants with the counter
parties and there were no inter-se trades between the
Appellants / Noticees. As we have already upheld violation
of PFUTP Regulations in paragraph 13 above, in our view
ends of justice would be met if the penalty is reduced to Rs.
5 lakh on Pat and Rs. 7.5 lakh on Gandiv under Section
15HA of the SEBI Act. Hence, the following:-