DATED : 19/07/2024. 1. By preferring this application, the applicant is
 seeking pre-arrest bail, in connection with Crime No.
 94/2024 registered with Police Station Nandanvan, Nagpur
 for the offences punishable under Sections 406, 420, 120-B,
 418 read with Section 34 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860; Section 66-D of the Information and Technology Act, 2000;
 and Section 3 of the Maharashtra Protection of Interest of
 Depositors (In Financial Establishments) Act, 1999. 2. The applicant is the brother of the co-accused
 Suresh Madhukar Sawarkar. Learned counsel for the
 applicant submitted that applicant is neither the office
 bearer of the said Online Forex Trading but he is the
 subscriber. The crime is registered on the basis of report
 lodged by Vikram Laxman Bajaj, alleging that he got
 acquaintance with the co-accused Suresh Madhukar
 Sawarkar on 20/06/2022, at the relevant time, the co-
 accused had provided in detailed information regarding the
 investment, and how he can earn the profit by investing in

rkn
 2 10aba529.2024.odt

 Online Forex Trading. It is alleged that the applicant was
 engaged with IX Global Company which was dealing with
 the education with regard to Online Forex Trading, Share
 Market and Crypto Market. He informed that IX Global is an
 American Company engaged in providing training in Online
 Forex Trading and provides 5 to 15% profits per month on
 the amount deposited through computer software, which
 was also called as Artificial Intelligence as Robot Trading.
 For providing these services, IX Global Company takes fees
 of Rs. 9,800/- per month for an investment below Rs.4 Lacks
 and if the investment is above Rs. 4 Lacks then fees of
 Rs. 11,500/- per month. 3. Thus, considering the assurance by the co-accused,
 the informant as well as friends have invested the amount.
 Initially, he received the bonus but subsequently, he has not
 received either bonus and invested the amount, and
 therefore, he approached the police and lodged the report. 4. Learned counsel for the applicant submitted that as
 far as the present applicant is concerned, he is the brother of
 the co-accused and subscriber in the chain. Thus, he is the
 person, who has invested his amount but he is also victim in
 the said scam. He submitted that considering the role of the
 present applicant, custodial interrogation is not required. In
 view of that, applicant be protected by granting ad-interim
 protection. 5. Learned APP strongly opposed the said application
 and submitted that the mobile phone of the present

rkn
 3 10aba529.2024.odt

 applicant is used in the transaction, and for the investigation
 purpose, his custodial interrogation is required as the mobile
 phone is to be seized and therefore, the prayer for grant of
 ad-interim protection deserves to be rejected. 6. After hearing learned counsel for the applicant and
 learned APP for the State, perused the investigation papers,
 from which it reveals that the offence is registered against
 the co-accused namely Prasenjit Das, Tushar Patel and
 Shailesh Kumar Pandey at Kolkata. These persons have
 created dummy firms on paper and had no business
 activities as declared in their Trade License. The accounts of
 such dummy firms were mapped on TP Global FX platform,
 which appeared to the public at the time of deposit an
 investment in the name of Forex Trading. 7. It further reveals that as the part of the scheme, the
 investors were induced to invest the amount and therefore,
 investors are invested the amount. The investor who invest
 the amount has to engage one subscriber, and subscriber has
 to engage the another subscriber and on investment, the
 first subscriber used to get the bonus of adding the
 subscribers. Thus, the role of the present applicant is only to
 the extent on adding the subscribers to the said IX Global.
 Thus, considering the fact that and the documents produced
 on record it reveals that, at the most as an inducement and
 not more than that, the role of the present applicant reveals,
 he is the subscriber. rkn
 4 10aba529.2024.odt 8. From the order passed by the C.B.I. Court at
 Kolkata, it reveals that applicant is not concerned with the
 fake firms and the dummy firms and the scheme was not
 also initiated by the present applicant. At the most, his role
 to the effect that, he has played an active role in inducing
 the person to invest the amount. As far as the custodial
 interrogation part i.e. the seizure of the mobile phone is
 concerned, can be taken care of by imposing certain
 conditions on the present applicant. In view of that, I
 proceed to pass following order: c) The applicant shall produce his mobile phone
 on Monday i.e. on 22/07/2024 before the
 investigating officer and this period shall be
 considered as his custody for the purpose of Section 27 of the Indian Evidence Act. d) The applicant shall not induce, threat or
 promise any witnesses who are acquainted with
 the facts of the case. e) Issue notice to the non-applicant, returnable
 after two weeks. f) Learned Additional Public Prosecutor waives
 service of notice on behalf of
 non-applicant/State and seeks time to file reply. g) Leave is granted to the present applicant to add
 the Economic Offence Wing as a necessary
 party. [URMILA JOSHI-PHALKE, J.]

Signed by: Mr. R.K. NANDURKAR
 rkn
Designation: PA To Honourable Judge
Date: 20/07/2024 16:43:38