NT> 

 14.54 hrs. 

Title: Combined discussion and voting on the Demand for Excess Grants in respect of the Budget (General) for the year 1999-2000 and Demands for Supplementary Grants in respect of the Budget (General) for the year 2002-2003. MR. CHAIRMAN : We now move to the next item. Demand for Excess Grant (General) and Supplementary Demands for Grants (General) are to be discussed together. Time allotted for discussion is two hours. Motions moved : MR. CHAIRMAN : The time allotted is two hours. Every speaker should remind himself or herself about this time limit. SHRIMATI MARGARET ALVA ( CANARA ): Sir, I thought you are giving me that much time. Mr. Chairman, Sir, I stand here in this House, at a time, when the economy is certainly not something on which one can congratulate the Government. As was said, it is, perhaps, a very difficult time. The driver in the seat has been changed knowing that the vehicle is almost coming to a grinding halt. However, as everybody is asking, "What can this man do now?" That is your picture. It simply says, "What can this man do now?" All your diplomatic specialisation, all your charm which you used in the diplomatic field as the Foreign Minister, I suppose the Prime Minister expects, will bear some fruit in this Ministry now or is it simply that it became rather uncomfortable to have the former Finance Minister reply to a lot of questions which were being asked and so they thought it is better that you do the explanations in as diplomatic a manner as possible. Sir, looking at the economy today, industrial growth is stagnating, and exports are falling. The Cabinet has rejected the proposal for VRS, I mean, the compulsory part of it, for Government employees in spite of repeated assurances that you were downsizing the Government, I mean, the bureaucracy, in order to bring down your cost overheads on administration. The PSUs are fast disappearing. I must also say that, perhaps, after all the exercises you have done on fast track capitalism, it is destroying the economy and making India a dependent nation, something which for years we had promised we would never let happen. If I can recount just some of the effects that we see today: the revenue collections have begun to fall and interest payments are mounting in comparison. Loans are becoming the only way to finance your various schemes and added to that is, of course, the effect of disinvestment in the public sector using that money for your window-dressing of budgetary needs. There is also now a proposal which, I am told at the instance of the PMO, the Cabinet Secretary has presented for privatising pensions and the Employees’ State Insurance. You will be playing, like you did in the UTI, with 19 million households by privatising pension schemes and let people again do what they did with UTI. You say that this is a way of downsizing, but at the same time, you do not downsize your bureaucracy. Sir, I am not going into the details of each scam because this is something which we have talked about so many times in this House. The stock market scam saw an estimated Rs. 70,000 crore in share values just disappear. I am on the JPC and I will not go into anything… (Interruptions) श्री शीशराम सिंह रवि ( बिजनौर ): आप बिना मतलब के आरोप लगा रही हैं। आप नाम लेकर आरोप लगाएं। श्रीमती मार्ग्रेट आल्वा : आप मेरी बात का उत्तर दे दीजिएगा, मैं सुनने के लिए तैयार हूं। श्री शीशराम सिंह रवि : आप लोगों ने खुद ही घोटाले किए हैं और आप यहां बिना मतलब के आरोप लगा रही हैं। श्रीमती मार्ग्रेट आल्वा : जब आपका सब्जैक्ट आये तब आप बोलियेगा। फाइनेंस के ऊपर आप मत बोलिये।Please do not disturb me. You can give him time and let him speak. He does not have to comment on everything I am saying. 15.00 hrs. 

Leaks from within led to huge withdrawals in the UTI leading to its collapse. What has come out in the Press? We recently, just last week, had a briefing by the CII, and I have the figures with me. There was a special briefing for the MPs. The UTI has no money left after redeeming the 30th June Scheme; four schemes fall due this year to be redeemed, and eight more fall due next year. Just for the year 2002, you are going to need Rs. 3,000 crore to Rs. 3,500 crore to be able to pay back the people to whom commitments have been made. Where is the money going to come from? I presume, you will sell some public sector undertakings or borrow from whichever bank in the world is prepared to bail you out. An estimated Rs. 20,000 crore of savings of small people have been lost in the UTI scam, and these are not the big ones. The big ones drew their money in time because they were properly advised through inside sources, but the small people who invested their lives’ savings in UTI are today asking you as to what you have done with their money and where they would go. Sir, the Defence scams are on tape to see. The Commission is inquiring into it. The Defence Minister has appeared before it. There are top aides in the Defence Ministry in the dock. Some have been court-martialled and others are under investigation. The Commission is meeting. Well, more funds seem to be coming to political parties again, while the Commission is still inquiring. The ICE age, if I may say so, is melting. ‘Pink slips’ are becoming the order of the day. More and more of the young people, who had thought that the information technology age was a heaven, today, in India, have begun to receive ‘go-home’ slips, the pink slips. The Telecom scam has been discussed and I will not go into it. There was a multi-crore windfall to companies by withdrawing rather by reducing the licence fee. I do not want to ask as to who gained and where. Sir, there is a debate on the disinvestment issue tomorrow, and I am not going into the details. However, your Tenth Plan Approach Paper has set a target of Rs. 16,000 crores a year from disinvestment . What more are you going to sell? Wherefrom are you going to raise Rs. 16,000 crore every year? Is it going to be done by selling out and disinvestment of all PSUS? ? पता नहीं क्या-क्या बेचना पड़ेगा? राष्ट्रपति भवन को बेचना पड़ेगा। Your annual target for the Tenth Plan, as per the Approach Paper which you circulated, is Rs. 16,000 crore. We have seen the disinvestment of Modern Foods, BALCO, Maruti, and now the Navratnas are on auction, if I may say so. The NALCO matter was discussed in the House. What is the money being used for? आपने कहा कि आप भी कर रहे थे।When Shri Manmohan Singh and the Congress Government went for disinvestment, there was a plan of action. The money was being used for reinvestment either to help the sick units revival or for purposes of creating a fund to help train those who would be out of jobs in the public sector. There was a system and planning. What are you doing today? Where is the money being used except to bridge the gap in your budgetary requirements? You have come for Supplementary Demands. I suppose, by October, you will come again and, by January, you will come again. मुझे पता नहीं एक्सट्रनल अफेयर्स के लिए अचानक पैसे की जरूरत कैसे पडी? In the middle of the year, what was so big that the External Affairs Ministry has done? It has been a disaster on the diplomatic front with the Americans coming and saying that Kashmir has been internationalised and others announcing that India is not a safe place to go to. It ledto a total collapse of the tourist trade in India. और भी पैसे चाहते हैं, पता नहीं? क्यों! 

The Ministry of Finance is asking for money; the Ministry of Consumer Affairs is asking for money. But what is shocking in this is that I thought there would be a head somewhere in these Demands for a Drought Calamity Fund at this moment, to which the Government would perhaps take money from other Ministries and put in. But there has not been a mention of that here. We are faced with the worst drought of the century. The villages, in many parts of our country, are in the grip of drought without even drinking water and everybody is looking towards the sky for a few drops of rain.टीम जाकर देखेगी, आयेगी लेकिन कब तक? We have seen this happening. There was a debate in the House, assurances were given, teams were sent. हम टीम भेजेंगे, टीम जायेगी, हम असैसमेंट करेंगे, देखेंगे लेकिन कब तक? But migrations have started. The aged, the women, the children and cattle only are left in the villages and the able-bodied persons are moving out of the villages in search of employment to survive. What has been the response of the Government? I would like to say, `please do not play politics with Drought Relief Fund.’ These are human lives, no matter to which State they belong . Sir, the Chief Minister of my State was here the other day with leaders of all Parties including that of yours from Karnataka. I just would like to mention a few things here. In the year 2000-01, we had a drought and we asked for Rs. 900 crore but we did not get one rupee for Karnataka. Then we asked for Rs. 80 crore because of crop damage due to a hail storm but no funds were released. This year we have asked for Rs. 500 crore but the response has been very lukewarm the other day. We had asked for a sum of Rs. 70.51 crore from the National Calamity Contingency Fund and for the first time we have got, shall I say Thank God, Rs. 30 crore. We have received that amount. These are the responses of the Government to the terrible situation that we are faced with. Sir, let us take the case of Madhya Pradesh. I am talking particularly of the States with which we have been involved. I am not saying the other States are not important. I am talking about five - six Congress ruled States that are in real trouble. So is the case with Haryana and Punjab. The States of Bihar and Assam are reeling under unprecedented flood situation. People are dying but the godowns of the Government are filled with sixty million tonnes of foodgrains. What is the Government doing with it? Are you going to let them lie there when people are dying because of rain and lack of work? A `food for work’ programme should have been announced by the Prime Minister the moment the intensity of the drought was realised.क्या हो रहा है? Can we play with human misery in this bureaucratic fashion where teams would go, they have to be hosted, looked after and taken around? They would come back then make an assessment and then prepare a report. What is happening? Sir, I was a Member of the National Drought Management Committee in the 1980s when I was a Minister under the late Rajiv Gandhi. He chaired every meeting. We were on a leash. We had to monitor things everyday. We were given charge of different States. I was given the charge of Rajasthan with two other senior Ministers. We had to check the hand pumps, we had to check the water and we were supposed to go there. A meeting, every week, was held in the Prime Minister’s Office where he chaired it and used to say that this was his report and asked about our reports. There was a system of cross-checking things. Here, the Ministers are sitting. This Government has 79 Ministers. Many of them complain that they do not get files; they do not have rooms to sit and they have no work. Please send them to those areas, let them sit in the drought-hit areas and see how the money is going to be spent and what is going to be done. What is the response of the Government? Believe me, this drought is going to either make or break our economy. How do we manage it? It is not a question of relief. It is a question of drought management as the late Rajiv Gandhi had said. You have to manage it. SHRI KIRIT SOMAIYA ( MUMBAI NORTH EAST ): The drought situation has already been discussed in this House… (Interruptions) SHRIMATI MARGARET ALVA : I know that… (Interruptions) But I did not speak on that day… (Interruptions) SHRI KIRIT SOMAIYA : I think, you were present there when the hon. Minister was replying to the debate on the drought situation… (Interruptions) SHRIMATI MARGARET ALVA : I am not using my time.… (Interruptions) SHRI KIRIT SOMAIYA : I think you were there. I understand your feelings. I support your feelings. But, I think you were there. Were you there? … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN : This is a discussion on Demands for Excess Grants. Probably she may ask for financial help. SHRIMATI MARGARET ALVA : That is what I am saying to them. How is it that they have not mentioned even one rupee of special grant to States in these Supplementary Demands? I thought that in response to … (Interruptions) SHRI BIKRAM KESHARI DEO ( KALAHANDI ): The National Calamity Relief Fund is there, National Calamity Contingency Fund is there. From that corpus the funds will go. … (Interruptions) SHRI KIRIT SOMAIYA : It has already been announced by the Minister. There is no need to mention it in this. The programme has already been announced. … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: Kindly cooperate. The time allotted is two hours. Please sit down. SHRI BIKRAM KESHARI DEO : A task force has been set up under the Chairmanship of hon. Deputy Prime Minister of the country.… (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: When she has got the floor, nobody can interrupt. There cannot be any cross talk. SHRI PRAVIN RASHTRAPAL ( PATAN ): Sir, may I know the rules for putting on the microphones? Whenever a Member from that side speaks, the microphones are put on; and when we talk, microphones are not put on. May I know the rules? Whenever Kirit talks the microphone is put on; whenever I talk microphone is not put on. What is the secret? Why is this partiality? MR. CHAIRMAN: I will find out. When the Speaker gives his consent, the microphone is put on. That is the normal procedure. I will find out. SHRI PRIYA RANJAN DASMUNSI ( RAIGANJ ): I appreciate my friend Kirit’s struggle to become a Minister. But he should no do like this. Let the Member complete her contribution. The Minister is here. He is competent to respond. Let him respond. श्री किरीट सोमैया : मैंने केवल इतना ही सवाल पूछा कि क्या वह उस दिन डिस्कशन में उपस्थित थीं।…( व्यवधान) We appreciate her concern. MR. CHAIRMAN: The time allotted for Congress is 25 minutes. We have to accommodate three speakers from Congress. She has taken 20 minutes. SHRI SOMNATH CHATTERJEE ( BOLPUR ): Sir, it is not a question of microphone, it is not a question of one hon. Member or some hon. Members appreciating … (Interruptions) SHRI KIRIT SOMAIYA : The whole party was not there. When the Minister replies, you go out. MR. CHAIRMAN: Shri Somaiya, this is not good. SHRI SOMNATH CHATTERJEE : Sir, I am not prepared to learn Parliamentary manners from him, let him be sure. SHRIMATI MARGARET ALVA : Exactly! We do not need to learn rules from him. We have been in Parliament long before he has come to Parliament. SHRI SOMNATH CHATTERJEE : He has no authority to teach others; all these self-appointed guardians of this House have no authority to teach us. The Chair is there. If some Member is not speaking properly or talking irrelevant things, there are rules in the rule book, the Chair should decide that. All the self-appointed guardians of this House are giving everybody lectures! … (Interruptions) SHRI VIJAYENDRA PAL SINGH BADNORE ( BHILWARA ): You are doing the same thing.… (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: I have not given consent to any other Member except Shri Somnath Chatterjee. SHRI PRIYA RANJAN DASMUNSI : Sir, I want your ruling whether, during discussion on Supplementary Demands for Grants, a Member has a right to ask the Finance Minister any allotment for drought relief. If you say no, you give a ruling and she will not speak on those things. If you say she can, she will continue. MR. CHAIRMAN: She has got a right. Shri Somnath Chatterjee is a senior Member. He can advise the Members, but not all. SHRI SOMNATH CHATTERJEE : I was not advising. I was requesting very humbly that there are rules of procedure in the House. I will depend on the Finance Minister. I am sure he will guide his Members, if they listen to him. I do not know! With Vajpayeeji’s present position, they may not listen to him. MR. CHAIRMAN: I appreciate your advice. SHRIMATI MARGARET ALVA : Okay, let us leave drought since Shri Somaiya is allergic to that subject. MR. CHAIRMAN: Shrimati Margaret Alva, you have consumed 20 minutes. The time allotted to your party is 25 minutes. I have to accommodate three speakers from Congress party. We have to complete the discussion within two hours. SHRIMATI MARGARET ALVA : I am going to ask the Minister what he is doing about the mounting NPAs which he has to deal with. They run into Rs.83,000 crore. Thirteen per cent of the gross advances are today NPAs. Of course, they have come with an Ordinance on the 21st of June, as if Ordinances by themselves are going to solve the problem. I want to know as to what is the next step. I know that denationalisation is on their agenda. But no one is going to help you pass that. So, you will have to find out other ways by which you can sort it out. IFCI is bankrupt. On the 26th of March, it reneged on redemption of preferential shares. I must say that its NPAs today exceed 600 per cent of its net worth. What was the Finance Ministry doing until it reached that figure? It does not meet capital adequacy requirements; it has been downgraded to inadequate safety level; and many pension funds of public sector undertakings and charitable trusts have been invested in IFCI. Therefore, you have to bail them out. You are going to require an amount of Rs.1500 crore more, to do that. I am asking the Finance Minister.आपको तो यहां बैठा दिया है अभी। आपको तो कुछ करना पड़ेगा।I do not know whether he has a magic-wand or any special way of dealing with some banks or some international agency to be able to get this entire money. I am just giving you the figures of funds which you are going to need in the course of this year. This Supplementary Budget is an eye-wash. He will need to come back again for crores and crores of rupees in the next few months. We are talking of Foreign Direct Investment. Again, there will be voices asking, इसमें क्या है। I am just asking him. Investments are only in speculative investments – of stocks and shares, consumer goods, quick profit areas, etc. I would like to know how much money is going to be there,( specially after Dabhol and Enron ) is going to come, into power sector, into infrastructure, into creating jobs, etc. Instead of creating one crore jobs, a year which was promised, it is VRS, it is closing down of the small scale industries, it is competition from the huge multinationals, which is there. Even bindis today are on the OGL. हिन्दुस्तान की महिलाओं के लिए बिन्दी भी कहीं से आ सकती है।Everything is being imported – vegetables, fruits, milk, milk products, etc. Anything that you want is being imported. Whatever we have here is on sale. The poor Minister is sitting here. Even Air India is on sale. He is trying to bring in massages to keep Air India passengers happy. प्लेन ही नहीं रहेगा मसाज के लिए। वह भी बिकने के लिए तैयारी हो रही है। I am asking the Minister. On the one hand, they are disinvesting and on the other hand, FDI is not coming in. I want to mention some figures to him. Clearances vis-à-vis actual inflow’s percentage-wise is 47.7 in 1991; in 1998, it has dropped to 33.8. We are told that it is going to go down further. There is no assurance of any politically stable society. Look at how much Gujarat has lost – it is Rs.5000 crore. Now, investments are moving to other States. People want a secure atmosphere to invest, which you are slowly eroding. There is slump in the economy and they have no definite policy. श्रीमती भावनाबेन देवराजभाई चिखलिया ( जूनागढ़ ) : आ रहे हैं। कल भी आने वाले ते और आगे भी आएंगे।…( व्यवधान) श्रीमती मार्ग्रेट आल्वा : हम उधर देख रहे हैं। आपके मंत्री को भी ऐड्रैस करना पड़ेगा। MR. CHAIRMAN :When you get your chance, you can respond. Otherwise, she will get more time, under the guise of replying to you. SHRIMATI MARGARET ALVA : Sir, WTO regime has eroded our small scale sector and our industries. I want to say that the small scale sector is dying. Unemployment is mounting. The sickness in the small scale industry is growing. Everything is because of competition from all over. Including shampoos and other cosmetics are coming from other countries. People of this sector have told me this. They have met me and reported to me saying that they could not survive under this regime. We know what has happened to the tourism sector because of what happened on 11th September. People have cancelled the bookings that they had made for the whole season. Tourism has been the most hit – 33 per cent has been the occupancy level, after what had happened. I am only saying that the Minister needs to look at issues and not just make soft speeches that he makes, the situation is really serious. I am not saying that the defence of the country is not important but everybody knows what it costs if you keep your defence forces on full alert on the borders for such a prolonged period, through summer and now through winter. Generally, wars are not fought sitting there over eight to ten months. You fight, finish and then withdraw. But here, the way the economy is bleeding with this experiment is something which all of us know about and I will not go into it. I will make my last point and then conclude. He will again say that it is out of context but then the Minister has asked for grants for public works and so on. I welcome the Prime Minister’s Gram Sarak Yojana. We in the rural areas really welcome this connectivity of villages, remote areas, by road. But the conditions which are being imposed for giving these contracts are such that only huge contractors, who can give these huge deposits and so on, are able to get the work and many who have investment, who have contract labour who are not so big are totally pushed out of it and are really in trouble. We are saying that while you give these huge contracts to multinational big companies, let there be a provision for the smaller people to be able to participate because, otherwise, you are going to make them bankrupt with all their investments. I have taken time and I am grateful for your patience. In conclusion, I would only like to point out to the hon. Minister that as the economic growth slows down to five per cent or less, as agriculture stagnates with drought and floods and destroys our hopes, as industrial investment declines by almost a third, exports grind to a poor five per cent as against the 20 per cent target, and as income and regional disparities widen further, the Government’s obsession with privatisation and cut in public spending will grow but it has to be contained. A hollowed out irresponsible state, presiding over an unequal, discontented and divided society is a recipe for social and political collapse and in that scenario I ask again, "what can this poor man do!" This is the real voice of the States. MR. CHAIRMAN : Please conclude now. There is one more speaker from your party, but your party’s time is over now. SHRI MOINUL HASSAN : Sir, I will take only two minutes. This is the real voice of the Finance Ministers from different States. So, this issue should be addressed. I would like to say a few words about our State, West Bengal now. The State of West Bengal is flood-prone, drought-prone and also erosion-prone. We faced a severe flood situation in the year 2000-01 in West Bengal. We demanded a relief package for Rs. 1,487 crore, but we received only Rs. 103 crore. So, this had a great impact on the economy of our State. In this situation, how is it possible to run the Government? Then, erosion is taking place in three or four districts, namely Murshidabad, Malda, Nadia etc., but we are not getting any help from the Government of India. In addition to that, there are drought in Purulia, Midnapore and Bankura districts and again there is no additional relief from the Government of India. So far as drought is concerned, this has already been covered by Shrimati Margaret Alva. There are many recommendations of the 11th Finance Commission regarding devolution of more funds to the State, but no action has been taken so far on this aspect. So, I would like to say that the country is facing a very critical economic situation. It should be addressed properly. With these words, I conclude. DR. B.B. RAMAIAH ( ELURU ): Mr. Chairman, Sir, I am thankful to you for giving me this opportunity to participate in the debate on the Supplementary Demands for Grants. It is a normal practice to get the approval of Parliament for Supplementary Grants in view of various demands that come up due to different reasons. This time, the amount is more than Rs. 8,000 crore which is a substantial amount. The major amount is going for payment to financial institutions and again another substantial part of the money is going for rural development. Most probably, this is going for the Delhi Metro Development Project and the amount is Rs. 1,346 crore. In addition to that, there are substantial requirements from the Ministries of Telecommunications, Mines, Heavy Industries, Textiles, Steel and various other sectors. But I am surprised to find that the provision for agriculture has not been much which is the most important sector of our economy. The other important item is the Natural Calamity Contingency Fund. The Government should have made additional provision for these two items. Today, we are facing a peculiar problem in this country. On the one side we are having our Armed Forces on the border and on the other side there is drought and flood in different parts of the country. Natural calamity is becoming a regular problem in our country year after year. We had a devastating earthquake last year in Gujarat and this year there is drought all over the country and floods in some States. In the past, we were talking about linking of rivers, but we have not done anything in that direction. If we had done that it would have taken a long time, but at the same time it would have helped us to reduce the losses caused due to floods and we could have utilised the excess water in the drought-affected States and supplied water to rivers which have dried up and also to those reservoirs which have been affected due to drought. We could have also used the excess water for power generation in hydel projects which are not able to generate power due to lack of rain. Today, the hon. Minister of Finance should be able to plan something like that so that the surplus water, which is causing damage to those places, could be utilised for the places where there are drought conditions. It will give you a lot more additional advantage both for drinking water, agriculture and industry. Today, you find that every State is coming up with some supplementary demands for water resources, rural development and supply of food. In fact, the ‘Food for Work’ programme is one of the most important items. This is a very useful type of thing that will be able to utilise the surplus cereals that we are now having in the godowns. It would be able to give more employment potentialities and also generate a lot of works in the drought-affected areas. During the last three years, we find that warehousing has become a problem because of surplus production of rice, wheat and other products. The exports were not able to meet the requirements and standards at the international level. So, the other alternative is to utilise it internally in a very helpful way so that it would not affect the future production. This is one of the items that we have done earlier. But now, under the drought conditions, I think, the hon. Minister of Finance today would have to discuss it with the other Ministries and see that they should be able to release substantial amount of food for work and also release some extra funds immediately. They can always say that the investigation will take a long time. But ad hoc grants should be given immediately because the need of this hour is very important. That is why in spite of all the difficulties, our farmers live in the rural areas. They are more than 60 to 70 per cent. They work very hard. They produce enough food to meet the requirements of the country. But because of inflation and drought conditions, we need to give more support for agriculture and also for various other rural development works. We have always talked about rural development and poverty alleviation. We have to utilise a substantial amount of funds for education in the rural areas, health, housing and various other requirements that they have to take into consideration. In fact, on the other side, when we are facing these problems, the FCI says that they want to slowly cut down from this. But FCI has to take a lead and see the requirements in different parts of the country. Where there is surplus and where there is deficit, they should balance it and see that they should be able to work hard and also see that more godowns and warehousing facilities should be developed. Probably, the Members of Parliament are doing a lot of work for rural development. But the funds given by you are meagre. A lot of MLAs are getting much more funds. I hope the hon. Minister of Finance would look into this aspect and see that the funds are increased substantially. In fact, the Committees have recommended every time when they had the meetings. But unfortunately, I think, nothing comes out of it. I hope this time, the Minister of Finance should be able to take up this issue. We have to do something for the Members of Parliament. They have to go to their constituencies. They should be responsible for the voters. Their responsibility will be for development of the area. Rural development has become one of the most important items. I am sure, that the hon. Minister of Finance would also take this point into consideration. Today, on one side, our reserves are good and inflation is substantially at a reasonable level. In spite of that, our growth rate has to go up in order that they should require infrastructure. In any country, wherever you see good infrastructure, the development goes on faster. There would be industrial development. There would be employment potentialities along with our exports or whatever it is. These things are interlinked. As some of our friends have said just now, the Golden Quadrilateral that the hon. Prime Minister has taken up connects major cities and requires a substantial amount. This is the time when we have to tackle watershed problems. The sub-soil water is going down substantially. When the rainwater comes, it goes as waste into the sea. This must be directed towards increasing the ground water level. That is why a substantial encouragement must be given for the watershed programmes in all the States and see that they should be able to utilise it in a natural way instead of causing more damage and wasting that water into the sea. A number of rivers, that we find, should be interconnected. This programme is going on for a long time and this is the time for us to see in the present circumstances to take some serious steps and that we should be able to utilise them properly. MR. CHAIRMAN : Please conclude now. DR. B.B. RAMAIAH : Thank you very much. I conclude now. There are a number of issues which we will be able to take up. There are a number of occasions where we have to speak. सभापति महोदय : दासमुंशी जी, मैं आपसे निवेदन करना चाहूंगा कि आपके दल का समय पूरा हो चुका है। उसमें से पांच मिनट अधिक श्रीमती आल्वा ने ले लिये हैं। गर आप इस में मेरी मदद करेंगे तो कम से कम समय में आप अपनी बात कह सकते हैं। मैं आपको रोक नहीं रहा हूं। सिर्फ आपके सहयोग की अपेक्षा करता हूं। श्री प्रियरंजन दासमुंशी : सभापति जी, मैं आपकी आज्ञा का पालन करूंगा। श्रीमती भावनाबेन देवराजभाई चिखलिया : सभापति जी, मैं भी यही कहना चाहती हूं कि उनकी ओर से काफी समय ले लिया गया है... सभापति महोदय : भावना जी, आप बैठिये। आप उनका समय क्यों ले रही हैं? श्री दासमुंशी जी। SHRI PRIYA RANJAN DASMUNSI : Sir, I am thankful to you for having allowed me to intervene in this debate. First of all, I wish the new Finance Minister a success to meet the critical challenge of the economy at this hour. I feel for him because he is a good friend of all of us in this House, a noble hearted man, having a very sad moment of his political career in this Thirteenth Lok Sabha by launching his journey with Masood Azhar to Kandhar and finally brought to the North Block in the storm of disaster of the economy where the entire country is tormented with droughts, floods and everything. Sir, I will not take much time, I will only highlight three basic points before the hon. Finance Minister. The first point is, before and after the submission of Geethakrishnan Committee’s report to curtail expenditure and downsize the entire thing, the Government time and again made it very clear that it will try to see that the deficit Budget is not projected to that dimension as it was brought in the past in all the Finance Ministers’ speeches. I am proud of most of our officials working with devotion in the Finance Ministry. True, a few blacksheep might be there, but it is unwise on our part to accuse and question the integrity and bona fide of the dedicated officers who are working throughout the length and breadth of this country in the Department of Customs, Department of Revenue, Taxation, etc. which are strengthening the economic base of the country. 15.58 hrs. (Shrimati Margaret Alva in the Chair) 

Madam, on three matters, I will confine my contribution. First matter is, what according to the Finance Minister a worth making investment and what according to him is not a worth making investment? While in Bombay High, ONGC finds it difficult to make further investments in the oil exploration programme, one of the Ministries of this Government found it worth investing to Shutlin Project in Russia, to the tune of Rs.8,000 crore. It has been rejected by most of the oil giants of the world as a junk one. Is it to please Russia for our diplomatic understanding or is it just a worth investment that the Government thinks it proper? This is not the issue of political character assassination of an individual, but it is a fundamental issue. When their own public sector is confident to do better investment elsewhere, they compel them to invest not in oil exploration programme of Bombay High, which will give more dividends, but to invest to the tune of Rs.8,000 crore. So, we would like to know their investment priority. How do they coordinate these matters in the Finance Ministry? These are the matters of concern today for all of us. Madam, my second point is regarding the so called debate in this House where several Members spoke from this side and from that side too, especially my dear friend, Shri Kirit Somiaya. I may differ with him in political ideology but in many matters of economics when he contributes, I appreciate. 16.00 hrs. 

Sir, I, now, come to the role of Mauritius route companies. Well, the Tehelka case was exposed. We may have a different view and you may have a different view. We do not like to comment on the merit. It is under the investigation of the Commission. Before a few days of the Tehelka episode, there was a hue and cry in the House of the K-10 lobbies operation in the stock market and the House had appointed a Joint Parliamentary Committee. It is investigating it. A few days after, I got a paper pertaining to the degree of harassment meted out to a company called First Global, which, according to the Government’s opinion, is an offending company, maybe an investor or a partner of Tehelka group. I, as a Member of Parliament, addressed a number of issues to the then hon. Finance Minister pertaining to the cause of this company and the harassment meted out to this company. The then Finance Minister replied to me on January 14 saying, "SEBI found something wrong with this company." My letter to the Finance Minister was on January 4, where I said about the stock market scam, First Global and about the Mauritius route companies. I said that the list of companies in Mauritius route should be released in public and a comprehensive investigation is called for, if necessary, by CBI as to how they played foul with the Government of India, SEBI and the law of the land. Sir, the Finance Minister emphasised only on the First Global in his reply and emphasised that SEBI found something wrong with this company. Before that, in October, I wrote to Dr. Mehta, the then Chairman of SEBI and asked him to give the details of the companies who played foul in the stock market operations. Sir, our distinguished Chairman of the JPC, Shri Tripathi is sitting here. I cannot take the name of the JPC here but for his knowledge, I will place this information. Here is the report of Dr. Mehta. In the long reply of Dr. Mehta and in the revelations which he made, there was no name of First Global. The names of all the companies are there, which played foul in the stock market, in the reply of Dr. Mehta. The Finance Minister communicated to me that SEBI found something wrong with a company called First Global. When I asked the Chairman of SEBI to give me a report, in a signed document, he listed out the names of all the companies, excluding the name of the First Global, which played fraud on the nation and on the stock market. Therefore, Sir, it gives me a feeling that he is placating the First Global. Is it an afterthought of Tehelka or is it on the same lines as of other companies? My second appeal to the Finance Minister is about the type of treatment given to First Global by the Directorate of Enforcement, to whom I have the highest regard and I treat them in high esteem. Why did you not offer the same treatment to those companies, which are listed here by the Chairman of SEBI? I have got the list of companies. They are: Kensington Investments Ltd.; Wakefield Holdings Company; Greenfield Investments Ltd.; Viceroy Investments Ltd.; Almel Investments Ltd.; Delgrada Ltd; Rafs Corp. Ltd.; European Investments Ltd.; Far East Investments Corp. Ltd.; Symphony Holdings Ltd.; Dossier Stock Inc.; and AOM Investments Ltd. If you see the report of SEBI, they are buying it at 20,000 dollars and the outflow of foreign exchange is one lakh, two lakh or five lakh dollars. So far as my knowledge goes, excepting the First Global, none of these companies and their counterparts in India has been haunted by the Directorate of Enforcement or the Tax Department. This is very unfortunate. The transparency of the Government, the Finance Ministry and an objective assessment is called for. If you use one stick to one company, then you have to apply the same stick to other companies. My second point is this. You have one set of principles in so far as detecting, hauling and apprehending those companies who played fraud on the stock market in our country and ruined our national exchequer. My third observation is about the drought situation on which Shrimati Margaret Alva had already spoken. I am not asking anything in general. I am making a very humble submission to the hon. Finance Minister. Will you please take note of this? What are the announcements in the Finance Minister’s Budget for the rural development programme on poverty alleviation when there was no drought? What are the Budgets of those States when they placed their own State Budgets? It is a fact that many States are running in difficult situation there to manage their own economies. You are bringing a Fiscal Responsibility Bill for the Budget management and you are saying you shall assist them in that order. Now taking stock of the Finance Minister’s declaration on poverty alleviation programme and taking stock of the restricted States which are suffering from drought like Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, etc., will you please form a Task Force in the Finance Ministry to see how much support, in addition, could be rendered to these people for augmenting additional resources? If necessary, you bring a new proposal in the House to augment resources in this country, either by your tax or any other method, just to protect the drought-affected States at this hour of time? We will support you. Will you consider appointing a Task Force very quickly? Before the 14th of August when the House is going to adjourn sine die, will you come out with a policy plan to support the States? The National Calamity Fund is there. I do not blame the Government or the Minister. That fund is so meagre by which you cannot respond to the challenge posed by the severest drought. I will tell you, Mr. Finance Minister, that you will have the last laugh. You can tackle the drought. Though I am sitting in the Opposition, I will tell you that the responses of the country’s agriculturists, the responses of the country’s other industrial workers are so good now. If you can just overcome the crisis of drought, the economy of the country would be booming in the next year. But if you fail to meet, the crisis will lead you to a situation where you will give more hands to the Opposition. We will be too happy to use it but the country will suffer. Therefore, my third request to you is you please consider this. Talk to the Prime Minister and the Cabinet to appoint an immediate Task Force. Suppose there is a war tomorrow, and the Defence Minister comes and says I need more money, obviously Parliament will support you to give additional fund to meet the challenge in the border. Equally you treat the challenge of drought as a war. If you need additional support to support any State Government, whichever Party may rule that State, we will support you. I will tell you, Finance Minister, while you come back to present the regular Budget, if you can, if you are not shifted, we will support you. I am saying this because we are not very clear who will continue and how long you will be in your Government and who is the actual authority because you are shocked to hear the statement of one of your allies. She does not know who is heading the Government. Therefore, it is my humble appeal to you to give all the emphasis to appoint this Task Force. Take the representatives of the State Governments who are affected by this drought, take representatives of the concerned Ministries, namely Water Resources, Agriculture, Rural Development, of course, Transport and Railways and plan a programme. If this is the money you need to overcome the work, overcome the challenge, to pave way for smooth operation of country’s economy for the next financial year, and to reach the target, in this endeavour, the entire Parliament will support you. Even if it is taxation, we do not mind. If you can come out in that package, I think, the entire nation will be benefited and the country will benefit. I would request the hon. Finance Minister to respond to this matter in a very positive way. With these words, I conclude my speech. श्री किरीट सोमैया : सभापति महोदया, सर्वप्रथम तो मैं आपको धन्यवाद देना चाहता हूं कि आपने मुझे इस पर बोलने का अवसर प्रदान किया। विपक्ष की ओर से इस चर्चा को प्रारंभ किया गया है और विपक्ष की ओर से बोलने वाले दोनों वक्ताओं ने जो भाव व्यक्त किए हैं कि देश की इकनौमी को स्ट्रेंग्थन करने के लिए और पर्टीकुलरली देश में जो अकाल की स्थिति है, उसका सामने करने के लिए मिलकर काम करेंगे, उसके लिए मैं धन्यवाद करना चाहता हूं। सभापति महोदया : फिर आपने ऑब्जैक्ट क्यों किया? श्री किरीट सोमैया : मैडम, अभी तो मैं मसका मार रहा था, ताकि आप मुझे बोलने के लिए कम से कम दो मिनट और ज्यादा दे सकें। जो भावनाएं विपक्ष ने व्यक्त की हैं, मैं उनका स्वागत करता हूं। वास्तव में यह जो चर्चा हो रही है, वह सप्लीमेंट्री डिमांड्स के ऊपर चल रही है। इसमें देश की आर्थिक परिस्थिति क्या है, फॉरेन एक्सचेंज रिजर्व की क्या स्थिति है, हम अकाल का सामना कैसे करेंगे और मौरीशस रूट की नीति क्या होनी चाहिए, इन बातों की डिटेल में मैं इस समय नहीं जाना चाहूंगा।Now, the new Minister of Finance has taken over and recently the Governor of the Reserve Bank of India has once again announced that this year we would be having an economic growth rate of more than six per cent. इस बार अनेक वर्षों के पश्चात् एग्रीकल्चरल ग्रोथ ७ प्रतिशत के करीब होने जा रही है। I am talking about 2001-2002. यह दुर्दैव है कि बरसात नहीं होने के कारण देश को अकाल का सामना करना पड़ रहा है। इससे पहले हमारे देश की इकनौमी बराबर आकर जो दुनिया में रिसैशन था, उससे बाहर आकर जो फीड ले रही थी, उसके लिए एक अच्छा अवसर आया था और हमारे देश में ६ हजार बलियन के करीब फॉरेन रिजव्र्स होने जा रहा है, उस स्थिति में अकाल के कारण देश की इकनौमी की ग्रोथ में थोड़ी रुकावट जरूर आएगी, लेकिन जैसी यहां इच्छा व्यक्त की गई है कि हम मिलजुल कर अकाल का सामना कर लेंगे, मैं उसका स्वागत करता हूं। जैसे देश की अर्थ व्यवस्था पहले पटरी पर आई थी, वैसे ही अब भी पटरी पर आएगी, मेरा ऐसा विश्वास है। हमारे माननीय सदस्य डॉ. बी.बी. रमैया ने बहुत अच्छी चिन्ता व्यक्ता की है कि यह सप्लीमेंट्री डिमांड हजारों करोड़ रुपए की है, लेकिन इसमें ५-७ एकाउंट ऐसे हैं जिनके बारे में मैं बताना चाहता हूं। There are about five to seven items which account for more than 70 per cent to 80 per cent like loan to Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited of Rs.720 crore; additional compensation for pre-payment, HDFC contra entry and payment to UTI of Rs.500 crore; Rs.186 crore for the Indian Iron and Steel Company, Rs.145 crore for Bharat Refractories; Rs.1,346 crore for the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation; Rs.681 crore for writing down Government investment in Central Bank of India; Rs.1,665 crore for UCO Bank; Rs.100 crore for Tyre Corporation and Rs.545 crore for Hindustan Paper Corporation under help and support to heavy industries. सभापति महोदया, अगर थोड़ा सा अर्थशास्त्र में जाएंगे और देखेंगे कि इसका अर्थ क्या होता है, तो आप पाएंगे कि देश की एजेंसी, आर्गेनाइजेशन, कार्पोरेशन और इंस्टीटयूशन्स में इतनी बड़ी मात्रा में धनराशि को कंट्रीब्यूट करने की आवश्यकता क्यों पड़ रही है, इस पर ध्यान देना होगा और यह सोचना होगा कि क्या यह इन दो-तीन सालों में इतना घाटा हुआ है उसके कारण सरकार को इतनी अधिक सहायता करनी पड़ रही है, ऐसा नहीं है। मुझे लगता है कि हमें सप्लीमेंट्री डिमांड्स पर चर्चा करते हुए राजनीति से ऊपर उठकर चर्चा करनी चाहिए, तो ज्यादा अच्छा होगा। हमारे प्रिय मित्र प्रियरंजन दासमुंशी और अन्य लोगों ने अपने भाषणों के समय राजनीति से प्रेरित होकर जो विचार व्यक्त किए, यदि मैं उनका उत्तर राजनीति की भाषा में ही दूं, तो कुछ भी नहीं बचेगा। एन.पी.ए. की बात नहीं है। What is the NPA situation? I will just read out the figures of one company. मैं एक नहीं बल्कि ऐसी अनेक कंपनियों की फिगर पढ़ सकता हूं। The total NPA is Rs.83,000 crore. I would like to read out the figures of one company having NPA of more than Rs.5,000 crore. The financiers of this company are the UTI, the ICICI, the IDBI, the IFCI, the LIC and the GIC and the finance has been extended since 1990-91. What are the NPAs? I will read out one more example. Instances of fresh financing to companies whose earlier loans have already become NPAs is Rs. 35 crore, Rs. 97 crore and Rs. 20.7 crore. It looks like to me Indian Charge Chrome and Usha Ispat, NPA is Rs. 953 crore. एन.पी.ए. के झंझट में मैं जाना नहीं चाहूंगा। ८३ हजार करोड़ रुपये का एन.पी.ए. है। वह कहां से हुआ? When was the finance extended to these two companies? It is before 1995. गये दो साल में, तीन साल में इस सरकार के आने से किस को लोन दिया जाये और उसमें इंटरस्ट ओवरडयू होता है तो उसको एन.पी.ए. नहीं कहा जाता। What is the meaning of NPAs? Debt is an old debt, doubtful debt, interest is not pre-paid, fresh loans and advances have been extended to repay the interest of the principal amount. ८३ हजार करोड़ रुपये का जो एन.पी.ए. है, उस पर सदन को चिन्ता करनी चाहिए, चर्चा करनी चाहिए।. But then also I will appreciate your concern. हम यह नहीं कहेंगे कि किसका कर्म है। किसने लोन दिया, क्यों दिया और कब दिया ? इसका कनैक्शन क्या है। उस ऊषा इस्पात को किसने बैंक में फाइनेंशियल इंस्टीटयूशन में डायरेक्टर एप्वाइंट किया और उस समय किसकी सरकार थी। इसको आप जाने दें क्योंकि मै पोलटिकल चर्चा में नहीं जाऊंगा। But let us not make it a political issue because this will boomerang on the Opposition Party itself, not on the Ruling side. वास्तव में एन.पी.ए. में ज्यादा चर्चा करने की आवश्यकता नहीं है। But I will certainly appreciate your concern. लेकिन चर्चा निकली, इसलिए मैंने इस विषय को थोडा सा स्पष्ट किया है। दूसरा यू.टी.आई. की बात है।I think, after this, we are having the Assets Reconstruction Companies Bill. यू.टी.आई. के फिगर भी मैं आपको पढ़कर सुना सकता हूं। UTI’s is one of the greatest scams of the Indian history and for this scam knowingly or unknowingly; all of us have contributed. We will not be able to spare a single person, person means a single party knowingly or unknowingly.कुछ नहीं है। उल्टा पिरामिड है। नये इन्वेस्टर्स को लेना और पुराने का पैमेंट करना। What is the UTI? For the last 4-1/2 years, I am shouting on behalf of the Investors Grievance Forum and the small investors of the country. This is Ponsey scheme. What is the meaning of Ponsey? This is the system going on for years together.उसका बेनीफिट किसको होगा? बेनीफिट कुछ को-आपरेटिव्स को होता है या बदमाश लोगों को जाता है । उनको हम पकड़ नहीं पाते हैं।Whether it is 1989, 1991, 1998 and 1999 these people find out the way. मुझे ऐसा लगता है कि कभी हम यह चर्चा करेंगे कि उन लोगों को कैसे पकड़ा जाये। उन लोगों को मदद करने वाले एग्जीक्यूटिव्स बैठे हैं, उनको कैसे रोका जाये। How can we create accountability among the decision-makers of all the financial institutions? यू.टी.आई. का ध्येय क्या है--म्युचूअल फंड। To collect money from the small investors; invest in some safe market. स्टॉप कर दिया। कहां से कहां यू.टी.आई. चला गया। Swapping in the scheme and investment, १९९१ का एम.आई.सी. १९९६ में मेच्चोर हो गया। सब को लिख दिया, गवर्नमैंट ऑफ इंडिया की फाइनेंस मनिस्ट्री को लिख दिया कि १९९६ में हम नयी स्कीम स्टार्ट करेंगे। उसमें १९९१ के इन्वेस्टर्स १९९६ में ट्रांसफर कर देंगे। और इन्वेस्टर्स को कुछ बातें लिखकर सब ट्रांसफर कर दिया। This thing is going on for the last 12 years. नये इन्वेस्टर्स को पुराने के सामने या पुराने को वापिस रीइन्वेस्टमैंट करवा देना। Inter-scheme transfer is going on for years together. I would request the hon. Minister of Finance to let us stop it, at least, now.एक बार आपको सुनना पड़ेगा।Once for all, let us put a full stop. I would like to quote two examples here. The UTI management wants to continue now also the same thing.मैं एक दो उदाहरण कोट करना चाहूंगा। NPAs of MIP of 1995 have been transferred on 17th May, 2002 to MIP 2000 .यह उन लोगों ने क्या लगाया है, जो लोग वहां बैठे हुए हैं। वे आपके पास से ५०० करोड़ रुपये लेकर जाते हैं और स्माल इन्वैस्टर्स को लूटने के लिए दूसरा धन्धा शुरू करते हैं।I would like to quote another example. In the similar manner, NPAs of MIP, 1996 have been transferred to MIP 2001, first Rs.18.27 crore and then Rs.40.85 crore. ये क्या लगाया है, नये इन्वैस्टर्स, जिन्होंने ऑनेस्टली इन्वैस्ट किया है, उनको उन्होंने लूटा है। नये एन.पी.ए. में आप अन्दर जाओगे तो एम.आई.पी. १९९१ का एन.पी.ए. होगा। मैं आपसे यह प्रार्थना करना चाहता हूं किyou stop it once for all. इन्फ्रास्ट्रक्चर के बारे में मैं आपको बता सकता हूं कि किस-किस कम्पनी ने यू.टी.आई. में किस प्रकार से काम किया है। जो एन.पी.ए. का हमारा एक भ्रम है कि एन.पी.ए. खाली आई.डी.बी.आई. में होता है, आई.सी.आई.सी.आई. में होता है, बैंक ऑफ इण्डिया में होता है, लेकिन यू.टी.आई. का एन.पी.ए. आप पढ़ेंगे तो आपको चक्कर आ जाएंगे।Development Reserve Fund of Rs.274 crore investment in debentures has become NPA and they are not informing anybody. That investment had been made as far back as 1992-93. लेकिन मैं वापस इसे कहूंगा कि इसकी पोलटिकल चर्चा हम न करें। मैं गवर्नमेंट का स्वागत करता हूं कि सरकार यू.टी.आई. एक्ट में एमेंडमेंट ला रही है। Bring it. Make it independent. Make it accountable. आप इस प्रकार की हेराफेरी बन्द करवाइये और स्माल इन्वैस्टर को संरक्षण दीजिए। मैं आपका स्वागत करता हूं कि कम से कम आपने हिम्मत के साथ ५०० करोड़ रुपये का प्रोवीजन किया है और स्माल इन्वैस्टर्स को आपने गारण्टी दी है कि आपने जो भी यू.टी.आई. में इन्वेस्टमेंट गवर्नमेंट के भरोसे पर किया है, सरकार उस विश्वास को कायम रखेगी। मैं एक-दो बिन्दुओं को स्पष्ट करके अपना वक्तव्य समाप्त करूंगा। At the same time, I would like to draw your attention. यह सैण्ट्रल बैंक, यह यूको बैंक, इनको आप इतना पैसा दे रहे हैं, भले ओल्ड एन.पी.ए. के कारण या उनके रीस्ट्रक्चरिंग के कारण उनको दे रहे हैं, but try to bring accountability.मैं आपको बैंक ऑफ महाराष्ट्र का एक किस्सा सुनाना चाहूंगा। उसकी बैंक बुक वैल्यू २६ रुपये है, The Chairman of the Bank of Maharashtra just wanted to come out with IPOs at Rs.10. There is no accountability. One must ask them as to what they are doing. साथ में मैं यह बात भी कहना चाहूंगा कि मेरे मित्र माननीय प्रियरंजन दासमुंशी जी ने जो एक विषय उठाया, मैं उसे अन्त में स्पर्श करूंगा, लेकिन उसके पहले मैं आपसे यह भी कहना चाहूंगा किone must have a co-ordination system. इतने सारे बैंक हैं, मैंने १-२ एग्जाम्पल दिया, मैं आपको ५० ऐसे एग्जाम्पल दे सकता हूं, जिसमें एक ही कम्पनी है, एक जगह से वह इक्विटी फंड लेती है, दूसरी जगह से वर्किंग कैपीटल, तीसरी जगह से टर्म लोन और २-३ साल के बाद उसका रीपेमेण्ट करने के लिए वही कम्पनी गवर्नमेंट इंस्टीटयूशन से दूसरे नाम पर पैसा वापस लेती है। फ्रेंड कम्पनी खोलती है, सिस्टर कन्सर्न कम्पनी खोलती है और बाहर के मार्ग से पैसा वापस चला जाता है। मैं एक ही विषय को स्पष्ट करके अपनी बात समाप्त करूंगा, मेरे मित्र माननीय प्रियरंजन दासमुंशी जी मारीशस रूट की बात कह रहे थे, वे मारीशस रूट के बारे में चिन्ता व्यक्त करते हैं। मैंने पहले भी अनेक बार कहा है that yes, we will have to discuss and decide some time the abuse and misuse of the Mauritius route. अभी हम जो डिवीडेंड टैक्स का बजट में एमेंडमेंट लाये हैं, I would give you an example that Indian companies have started shifting their promoters’ holding in the name of Mauritius Shell Companies. मैं आपको एक बड़ी कम्पनी का नाम बता सकता हूं, ४३ परसेंट उसमें प्रमोटर्स की होल्िंडग थी, उन्होंने मारीशस की शैल कम्पनी में ३७ परसेंट प्रमोटर्स होल्िंडग ट्रांसफर कर दी। जो डिवीडेंड टैक्स भरेगा, यहां का ऑनेस्ट इन्वैस्टर भरेगा, लेकिन जो बड़ा प्रमोटर है, मारीशस में दो परसेंट उनको डिवीडेंड टैक्स भरना पड़ेगा। मैं आपसे रिक्वैस्ट करूंगा कि मारीशस रूट के बारे में आप कभी चाहें तो फाइनेंस कमेटी के सामने, कभी सदन के सामने या इसके लिए एक छोटा सा ग्रुप बनाकर इसके एब्यूज क्या हैं, we are just discussing about the abuse. अगर टैक्स बैनीफिट के लिए कोई अच्छी कम्पनी आती है तो हम माइंड नहीं करते, लेकिन इण्डियन कम्पनीज़ अपने टैक्स सेविंग के लिए यहां के कैपीटल मार्केट के मैनीपुलेशन के लिए, फोर्जरी के लिए जिस कम्पनी का उदाहरण माननीय मित्र दे रहे थे, 

मेरे कुछ बंधन हैं, नहीं तो मैं उस कम्पनी के ऐसे बहुत से काले कारनामे बाहर ला सकता था। दासमुंशी जी एक अच्छे सदस्य हैं, उनको पता नहीं है कि वह किस की बात कर रहे हैं। उस कम्पनी के सिंगापुर से लेकर मारीशस और मडिल ईस्ट से लेकर, 

MADAM CHAIRMAN : Shri Kirit Somaiya, I just want to point out one thing to you that we are Members of the JPC. Do not go into too many details. SHRI KIRIT SOMAIYA : No, Madam. I am not going into those details. MADAM CHAIRMAN : You are a Member of that Committee. The Chairman of the Committee is sitting here. I think they can all come in the report. I think we are all bound by some rules. So, do not go into too many details. We dill discuss it in the JPC and you can bring everything in the report. यहां हाउस में ऐसी कोई बात न उठाएं। आप जे.पी.सी. के सदस्य हैं। SHRI KIRIT SOMAIYA : Madam, I seek your pardon. मैं जे.पी.सी. की एक भी इंफार्मेशन यहां नहीं बता रहा हूं। सभापति महोदया : इसको लम्बा करने की जरूरत नहीं है। जे.पी.सी. की रिपोर्ट हाउस में सब्मिट होगी, तब कुछ कहना। श्री किरीट सोमैया : मैंने जे.पी.सी. की एक भी इंफार्मेशन नहीं कही है। यू.टी.आई. के बारे मेI think you also expressed your concern. MADAM CHAIRMAN: Do not go into details. SHRI KIRIT SOMAIYA : Yes madam. एन.पी.ए. वगैरह का जे.पी.सी. से कोई सम्बन्ध नहीं है। इसलिए मैंने कहा कि इस विषय को जब आना होगा, वह आएगा। कौन कहां से पैसा लेता है, मोरीशस रूट का एब्यूज हमें रोकना चाहिए। मैं इन सप्लीमेंट्री डिमांड्स का समर्थन करता हूं। लेकिन कभी न कभी यू.टी.आई. और जो वित्तीय संस्थान हैं, उनके एक्जीक्यूटिव्स की अकाउंटीबलिटी के बारे में चर्चा करें और सभी म्युचअल फंड्स, यू.टी.आई. के बारे में भी अभी से सोचना प्रारम्भ करें। एल.आई.सी. के प्रति लोगों में विश्वास है। वह विश्वास बना रहे और इसी प्रकार के जो भी करेक्टिव एक्शन लेने चाहिए, वह सरकार ले। यही प्रार्थना करते हुए मैं इन मांगों का समर्थन करता हूं। SHRI RUPCHAND PAL ( HOOGLY ): Madam Chairperson, the discussion on Supplementary Demands for Grants is not a right occasion to discuss the overall policy direction of the Government. But still, I cannot but make one observation and that is directly related to some of the provisions made in the Demands for Grants. Madam, world over, the countries which had gone for structural adjustment for liberalisation, privatisation and globalisation are having a re-look after the bitter experience in areas of employment generation, industrial growth, export and in areas related to agriculture and all these things. I have, more than once, said that this Government is totally lost in the wilderness of economic reforms. It is directionless. It does not know where to go, what to do. It is all ad hocism. I am coming directly to relate my observations to one situation. The BSNL is being provided a loan of Rs. 720 crore. What for that this is being given? Madam, the hon. Minister of Finance has gone out but the hon. Minister of State for Finance is here. MADAM CHAIRMAN: The Minister of State for Finance, Shri Anant Geethe is here. SHRI RUPCHAND PAL : I would request him to kindly listen to me. You have lost yourself in the economic reforms. This is directly related to the Supplementary Budget. The BSNL is being given Rs. 720 crore as a loan. What for that this is being given? It is being given as a loan for implementing the village public telephone programme. When the new Telecom Policy was announced the private operators were given licence in service areas. The Bharti Telecom Limited was given the same for Madhya Pradesh. The number of village public telephones committed to them was 16,500. How many have they done? They have done only 340. Take the case of Tata Tele Services. They are rich after a deal with VSNL, by giving Rs. 1,420 crore and taking away Rs. 1,200 crore. This is for providing tele services. In 1997, they were supposed to fulfil a target of 9,635 village public telephones. How much have they done? They have done 674. In 1997, the number of village public telephones committed by Hughes Telecom, Maharashtra was 25,760. How much have they done? They have done only 285. Reliance is a great name. Even when Reliance Telecom had indulged in insider trading, when they had access to official secrets, they were still allowed to bid in the disinvestment process saying that it did not concern the national security. Special consideration was given. Now, Reliance Telecom, Gujarat was supposed to provide 8,635 telephones. They have done 176. It is a glorious achievement! The target of Satyam Telecom, Rajasthan was 31,834 and their achievement since 1997 till today is 245. The target of HFCL Infotel, Punjab was 5,442 and their achievement till 22.6.02 is 383. These are the private operators. Out of a target of 97,806 – and number of villages to be covered was 60,604 – what they fulfilled is 2,111. What is to be done? It is the responsibility of BSNL and it is the responsibility of the public sector. And again, this public sector has been targeted last week. Even in respect of BSNL, the disinvestment will take place. Is it reforms? In whose interest are these reforms? These reforms are to serve whom, to enrich whom and for whose aggrandizement. It is for the aggrandizement and enriching of friends and corporate sector who have done scrupulous defaults, who have looted public money. Now, you are giving Rs. 720 crore as loan to BSNL to fulfil the social obligations assigned to it. The private sector was encouraged in a number of ways through the National Telecom Policy, but they have not fulfilled their targets and nor are they going to fulfil their targets. Then, WLL was given out of the way to a particular company. They are not fulfilling any targets. But the Government is giving a loan of Rs. 720 crore to BSNL. The Prime Minister says that eight per cent growth is natural for a country like India. The President on that solemn occasion said that a developing country like India’s goal should be to get developed as early as possible. How much national savings do you require for achieving eight per cent growth? According to a very conservative estimate by economists, 30 per cent to 32 per cent national savings are required. Our national savings are coming down from 25 per cent to 22 per cent to 20 per cent. Mostly, it consists of household savings. Small saving is contributing a lot to the States. For example, my State – perhaps we are at number one or number two – West Bengal is mobilising about Rs. 4,000 crore from small savings, postal savings. But the interest will be brought down. There have been disincentives. They are being asked to go for the capital market. Small investors are losing money like anything in mutual funds, vanishing companies and non-banking companies. What has this Government done? It is being said in page 11 that `for ex gratia payment to the employees of National Savings Organisation, who are opting for VRS consequent upon downsizing of the NSO pursuant to the Finance Minister’s announcement in the Budget Speech.’ NSO is being downsized. What is the number of people? It is 1,100. What is happening today? The Minister is requested to kindly note this. There are no certificates available in many parts of the country. Krishi Vikas Patras, National Saving Certificates, agents’ receipt books have not been printed for seven to eight months now. People who should have been encouraged to save, when the national savings need to be at that level of 31 per cent to 32 per cent, what are you doing? You are dismantling everything, be it the insurance sector or be it the banking sector, in the name of encouraging the private mutual funds and all these things. So far as the poor people and the middle-class are concerned, the interest rate has been slashed down. Even if they want to put their precious savings in the postal savings, National Saving Certificates or in the Krishi Vikas Patras, the receipts books have not been made available to the agents for eight months now. The NSO is being dismantled. It is being said that the Postal Department will take charge, but it has not received any communication till now. Who will print it? What type of Government is it? For eight months, they have not formulated any policy. Who will print the certificates or the agents’ receipt book forms? This is the situation. In such a situation, how can the Prime Minister say that there will be eight per cent growth? Eight per cent growth rate requires about 30 per cent to 32 per cent of national savings. Now, I am coming to UTI. Here, for the UTI, Rs. 500 crore has been provided to meet the gap between the redemption and the NAV price, as per the commitment. I am not going into what is being examined elsewhere by a Committee. But as far as I could understand, UTI is an exceptional Mutual Fund and it was a giant. It is mainly because of the perception among the public that the Government supports it. Till today, when the Government guarantees, people in our country just put their money in it and that is the psyche of the people. There was a suggestion to meet the shortfall, that is, to allow the UTI to float a new type of bond so that it will not cause any outgo of Government money. It will be a simple guarantee. As per the studies made by important people, not by me only, I have also been pursing that, UTI can again rise like a giant, and as it has helped the Government in the past, it can help the Government in future also. Therefore, I say that it is a welcome move that ultimately the Government has decided to provide Rs. 500 crore. However, this is not the end of the story. UTI is in distress because of the Government. I am not blaming any particular Minister, a particular Secretary, or a particular group of industries that, through insider trading, withdrew their money. It is not the right occasion, but still, I believe that UTI is an organisation… 

MADAM CHAIRMAN : Shri Rupchand Pal, you must conclude now. SHRI RUPCHAND PAL : I am concluding after making one or two points. I conclude with a caution to the Government that there is drought, there is flood and there is a growing unemployment and joblessness in the country. Industrial activity has slowed down, agriculture is in stagnation, and there is a negative growth in exports. There are various wounds throughout the body of the Indian economy. Palliatives here and there, applying balm here and there or giving medicines here and there will not serve any purpose. You have to have a relook at your policy. It is a wrong policy, it is an anti-people policy, which is against the interests of the country. With these few comments on some of the provisions of the Supplementary Demands for Grants, I once again caution the Government that the way they are working, the direction in which they are going, will prove disastrous and the people will not tolerate it. प्रभुनाथ सिंह ( महाराजगंज, बिहार ) : सभापति महोदया, मैं वित्त मंत्रालय की अनुपूरक मांगों पर हो रही चर्चा में भाग लेने के लिये खड़ा हुआ हूं। मैं इस अवसर पर नये वित्त मंत्री जी को धन्यवाद देता हूं, हालांकि उन्होंने ऐसा कोई काम नहीं किया है जिससे उन्हें धन्यवाद की आवश्यकता महसूस हो। पूर्व वित्त मंत्री श्री यशवंत सिन्हा ने १९९८ से देश के लोगों की आर्थिक मामलों की किस्मत अपनी कलम से लिखने का काम किया। पता नहीं उन्होंने कितना सुधार किया और कितनी आर्थिक विकलांगता की, उसकी समीक्षा करनी होगी। लेकिन हकीकत यह है कि वे गांव के लोगों का विश्वास अर्जित नहीं कर सके, ऐसा हमें महसूस होता है। माननीय प्रधान मंत्री जी ने श्री जसवंत सिंह जी के सफल विदेश मंत्री रहने के बाद उन्हें वित्त मंत्रालय का प्रभार दिया है ताकि वे अपने विवेक का परिचय देते हुये गांव के लोगों को विश्वास हासिल कर सकें। हमने उन्हें इस उम्मीद के साथ धन्यवाद दिया है कि वे इस उम्मीद पर खरे उतरें और गांव के लोगों के लिये कुछ न कुछ रास्ता निकालें। सभापति महोदया, आज औद्योगिक दर का स्तर नीचे है और निर्यात में बहुत गिरावट आ रही है। अभी कुछ माननीय सदस्यों ने बाढ़ और सुखाड़ के बारे में चर्चा की जिससे देश का बहुत बड़ा भू-भाग प्रभावित हुआ है। बेरोजगारी निरन्तर बढ़ रही है। वैसी स्थिति में नये वित्त मंत्री को अपनी कार्य कुशलता का परिचय देना है। हम मानते हैं कि यह उनके लिये परीक्षा की घड़ी है। इसलिये वे इस परिवेश में किस ढंग से जूझते हैं, लड़ाई लड़ते हैं, किस तरह से गांव के लोगों के आर्थिक मामले में नई दिशा देते हैं, किस तरह से अर्थ व्यवस्था मजबूत करते हैं, यह देखने की बात है। सभापति महोदया, लघु उद्योग इस देश में बिलकुल लङखड़ा रहा है। इस कारण न केवल पूंजी का नुकसान हो रहा है बल्कि जो आम कमजोर मध्यम वर्ग के लोग रोज़गार करते थे, छोटा-मोटा व्यवसाय करते थे, उन लोगों की रोजी मर रही है। प्रतिवर्ष इस बात की घोषणा की जाती है कि एक करोड़ रोजगार का सृजन होगा परन्तु ऐसा दिखाई नहीं दे रहा है। आप इसका क्या तरीका निकालने जा रहे हैं? मैं वित्त मंत्री जी से निवेदन करूंगा कि सदन के माध्यम से इस देश को बतायें कि आप देश में कितने लोगों के लिये रोजगार देने की व्यवस्था कर रहे हैं। मुझे लगता है कि शायद वित्त मंत्री जी मन बनाकर आये हैं। वे एक सफल विदेश मंत्री रहे हैं, अच्छे वित्त मंत्री बने, यही शुभकामना करता हूं। सभापति महोदया, मैं दो-तीन बातें आपके सामने रखना चाहता हूं। मैं गांव के परिवेश से आता हूं। दिल्ली में काफी भीड़-भाड़ रहती है। इसका बहुत बड़ा कारण है। दिल्ली और मुम्बई जैसे बड़े शहरों में जो 

 १६.४५ hrs.( Dr. Laxminarayan Pandeya in the Chair) 

सुविधायें मुहैय्या हैं, गावों में वे सुविधायें कहां? आप दिल्ली के आल इंडिया इंस्टीटयूट ऑफ मैडिकल साइसेंज में देख लीजिये। मुझे लगता है कि पिछड़े इलाकों से ७० परसेंट मरीज आते हैं और लाइन में कार्ड बनवाने के लिये खड़े रहते हैं। उन्हें किसी चीज की जांच कराने के लिये ६-६ महीने और यहां तक कि एक साल तक भी लग जाता है। इसका कारण यह है कि गांवों में कहीं चकित्सा के उचित साधन नहीं हैं। इसलिए हम नये वित्त मंत्री जी से निवेदन करेंगे कि आप थोड़ा गांवों की तरफ भी मुड़िये। हम यह मानते हैं कि आप भी जन्मजात शहर के रहने वाले नहीं हैं, गांव के ही रहने वाले हैं। इसलिए हम चाहेंगें कि आप गांवों की तरफ भी नजर दौड़ाइये। हालांकि पिछले दिनों में देश बहुत से संकटों के दौर से गुजरा है। कभी गुजरात का तूफान, कभी उड़ीसा का तूफान, बीच में कारगिल युद्धस आदि सब समस्याओं से जूझते हुए यह नहीं कहा जा सकता कि आर्थिक गति बिल्कुल अवरुद्ध हो गई, गाड़ी चली है। लेकिन गाड़ी चलने की जो रफ्तार होनी चाहिए, वह रफ्तार गाड़ी नहीं पकड़ पाई। सभापति महोदय, अभी यहां यू.टी.आई. की चर्चा चल रही थी। उस पर मैं ज्यादा नहीं बोलना चाहता हूं। लेकिन एक बात वित्त मंत्री जी से निवेदन करना चाहता हूं कि इसमें छोटे निवेशकों का बहुत ज्यादा नुकसान हुआ है। इसी तरह से देश में शेयर घोटाला हुआ। इस बात से कोई इनकार नहीं कर सकता, लेकिन घोटाला किसी एक व्यक्ति की वजह से नहीं हुआ, बल्कि हम मानते हैं कि शायद सरकार की तरफ से घोटाले का लाइसेंस मिला हुआ है। चूंकि उसकी जो जांच करने वाले लोग हैं, उनका कहना है कि हमें अधिकार नहीं मिला है, हम कैसे रोक सकते हैं, लेकिन यह बात हम नहीं मानते हैं। जितना अधिकार उन्हें मिला हुआ है, वे उस अधिकार का उपयोग नहीं करते, बल्कि सारे लोग मिल-जुलकर घोटालों को बढ़ावा देने का काम कर रहे हैं। यू.टी.आई. में आप पुन: चार सौ करोड़ रुपये का सहयोग दे रहे हैं, लेकिन इसकी क्या गारंटी होगी कि इस पैसे का सही उपयोग होगा। इसलिए हम वित्त मंत्री जी से उनके जवाब में अपेक्षा करेंगे कि जो राशि आप दे रहे हैं, उसका सही उपयोग कैसे होगा, इसके लिए आपने कौन की नई तरकीब या नया रास्ता निकाला है, यह आप सदन में बताकर देश को विश्वास में लेने का काम करें। दूसरी बात हम कहना चाहते हैं कि बीच के दिनों में देश की अर्थव्यवस्था को ठीक करने के लिए बहुत से रास्ते निकाले गये। खासकर देश के बड़े-बड़े उद्योग-धंधों को बेचा गया। पता नहीं, उससे सरकार को क्या आमदनी हुई है या क्या उपलब्धि हुई है, लेकिन जो वनिवेश हो रहा है, इसका कोई अच्छा मैसेज नहीं जा रहा है। चंद्रशेखर जी देश में बहुत कम दिनों के लिए प्रधान मंत्री थे। लेकिन उनके समय में सोना गिरवी रखा गया था। उस समय सुमन जी मंत्री थे। उस समय चंद्रशेखर जी के प्रिय पात्रों में हम भी एक थे। आप सरकार में थे। उस समय हमें खुफिया विभाग से जानकारी मिली कि जिस तरह की इमेज देश में सरकार की बनी है,अगर अभी चुनाव हों तो चार सौ से ज्यादा सीटें निकल जायेंगी। लेकिन जब देहातों में चुनाव का समय आया तो एक पोस्टर निकाला गया था - चार महीने बनाम चालीस वर्ष - ऐसा ही कुछ पोस्टर निकाला गया था। गावों के लोगों ने कहा कि जो लूट चालीस वर्ष में नहीं हुई, वह चार महीने में हो गई और उस पोस्टर का विपरीत असर पड़ा। पहले चंद्रशेखर जी आये और श्री देवेगौड़ा जी शायद उस समय रुक ही गये थे।…( व्यवधान)आप ऐसा मत कीजिए, हमें दो मिनट और दीजिए। हम ख्वामख्वाह बात कर रहे हैं। हम कह रहे हैं कि ये देश का सामान बेच रह हैं। गांवों के लोगों को इसकी पीड़ा और दर्द है। आपको अच्छा नहीं लगता है। सभापति महोदय : हम पूरे बजट पर चर्चा नहीं कर रहे हैं, हम अनुपूरक मांगों पर चर्चा कर रहे हैं। जरा अनुपूरक मांगों को भी संदर्भित करते जायेंगे तो अच्छा रहेगा। श्री प्रभुनाथ सिंह : आप हमारे शुभचिंतक हैं, आप भी इस तरह से करते हैं। सभापति महोदय : समय सीमित हैं, इसलिए मैं आपसे कह रहा हूं। श्री प्रभुनाथ सिंह : मैं दो-तीन मिनट में समाप्त करता हूं। मैं कह रहा था कि इन सब चीजों का देश में अच्छा मैसेज नहीं जा रहा है। जिस समय सोना गिरवी रखा गया था, उस समय खुफिया एजेन्सी की रिपोर्ट के अनुसार चार सौ सीटें निकलती थीं। लेकिन आज ये देश के बड़े-बड़े उद्योग-धंधे बेच रहे हैं। आप सोचियेगा कि चुनाव के समय देश की जनता क्या कहेगी। इसलिए हम आपको सावधान करना चाहते हैं। हम आपके मित्र, सहयोगी और शुभचिंतक की हैसियत से सावधान करना चाहते हैं कि ऐसा कोई कदम न उठे कि देश की जनता के मन में यह विश्वास पैदा हो कि आप देश को चलाने में सक्षम नहीं हैं। आप देश का मैनेजमैन्ट नहीं कर सकते हैं। आप देश के हर व्यवसाय को बेचने का काम करना चाहते हैं। ऐसा कोई मैसेज नहीं जाना चाहिए। मैं एक निवेदन वित्त मंत्री जी से करके बैठ जाऊँगा। वित्त मंत्री जी आप थोड़ा गांवों की तरफ नजर डालें। गांवों की तरफ कहने का हमारा मतलब यह है कि जिस समय पुराने वित्त मंत्री जी ने गैस पर सब्सिडी में कटौती की थी, तह बड़ा हल्ला हो रहा था, लेकिन हम बड़े प्रसन्न थे। हम इसलिए प्रसन्न थे कि गैस अभी भी मध्यम वर्ग और निचले वर्ग के उपभोक्ता कम ही इस्तेमाल करते हैं। फाइव स्टार होटल और बड़े बड़े घरों में उसका उपयोग होता है। सब्सिडी और घटा दें तो अच्छी बात होगी। त्रिपाठी जी गांव के हैं। वे जानते हैं कि आज भी गांवों में मवेशियों के गोबर और जलावन की लकड़ी का प्रयोग चूल्हे में होता है। अगर गांव के दर्द को मंत्री जी समझते हैं, गरीब और मध्यम वर्ग की पीड़ा को महसूस करते हैं तो हम कहते हैं कि कोई फॉर्मूला निकालिए ताकि जो मवेशियों का गोबर है, जलावन की लकड़ी है, उसमें आप कैसे सहयोग कर सकते हैं और सबसिडी दे सकते हैं। इसके दो लाभ होंगे। यदि आपकी ओर से प्रोत्साहन मिलेगा तो गांवों में मवेशी पालने पर ज़ोर दिया जाएगा और उन लोगों का मनोबल भी बढ़ेगा। जब लकड़ी पर सबसिडी देंगे तो गांवों में जो लोग कहते हैं वे जानते हैं कि पर्यावरण खराब हो रहा है, इस प्रोत्साहन से गांवों में लोग पेड़-पौधे लगाएंगे और उनकी आर्थिक स्थिति भी सुद्ृढ़ होगी। इसलिए वित्त मंत्री जी से मैं कहूंगा कि इस सवाल का जरूर उत्तर दें। हम सुनने के लिए तब तक पीछे बैठे रहेंगे जब तक इनका जवाब नहीं होगा। हम विश्वास के साथ इनका जवाब सुनना चाहेंगे कि नए मंत्री आए हैं, ये गांवों को कुछ देना चाहते हैं या नहीं। इनकी मानसिकता को हम आज ही जान लें। यदि गांवों को कुछ देने का इरादा होगा तो हम आज से इनकी प्रशंसा के पुल बांधेंगे नहीं तो प्रशंसा वगैरह नहीं होगी। मजबूर होकर हम मांगों का समर्थन तो कर देंगे लेकिन इनकी प्रशंसा नहीं करेंगे। एक छोटा निवेदन और करके मैं अपनी बात समाप्त कर दूंगा। वह निवेदन यह है कि ऐसा आप नहीं करें कि खाद का दाम बढ़ाकर देश की अर्थव्यवस्था ठीक कीजिए दूसरी तरफ शराब का दाम घटाकर देश की आर्थिक स्थिति सुद्ृढ़ कीजिए। बढ़ाना है तो शराब का दाम बढ़ाइए और खाद का दाम घटाइए। कई बातें और थीं लेकिन आपके टोकने से वह भी भूल गया। इन्हीं शब्दों के साथ मैं आपका धन्यवाद करते हुए अपनी बात समाप्त करता हूँ। श्री रामजीलाल सुमन ( फिरोजाबाद ): सभापति जी, वर्ष २००२-२००३ की अनुदानों की पूरक मांगों पर हम चर्चा कर रहे हैं। जिस तरह इस कागज़ में वभिन्न मंत्रालयों के लिए पैसे की मांग की गई है, उसका सीधा मतलब यह है कि हमारे बजट अनुमान गलत सिद्ध हुए। सभापति महोदय, हमने कितना पैसा मांगा है वभिन्न विभागों के लिए, यह एक अलग और महत्वपूर्ण सवाल है, लेकिन जसवंत सिंह जी से मैं बड़ी विनम्रता से निवेदन करना चाहूँगा कि जब तक फिज़ूलखर्ची पर नियंत्रण नहीं करेंगे, तब तक इस देश का भला नहीं हो सकता। विकास के नाम पर एक रुपया लोगों तक पहुंचाने के लिए ताम-झाम पर तीन रुपये खर्च हो जाते हैं। मंत्री जी फौजी आदमी हैं और हम समझते हैं कि फौजी आदमी थोड़े ठीक-ठाक होते हैं। मगर मुझे पता नहीं आप कितने ठीक-ठाक हैं। आपके मंत्रालय का सबसे पहला प्रयास यह होना चाहिए कि जो फिज़ूलखर्ची हो रही है, अय्याशी हो रही है, उसको रोका जाए। योजना व्यय में एक रुपया खर्च होता है तो गैर योजना व्यय में चार रुपये खर्च होते हैं। उसके बीच कोई रिश्ता, कोई अनुपात तो होना चाहिए। गरीब आदमी के पास विकास के नाम पर, मदद के नाम पर जो पैसा भेजते हैं और पैसा भेजने में जो अफसरशाही का प्रयोग करते हैं, जो प्रशासनिक ढाँचा हमने बनाया है, जब तक इसको आप नियंत्रित नहीं करेंगे, फिज़ूलखर्ची में कमी नहीं करेंगे, तब तक मैं नहीं समझता कि कोई अच्छे परिणाम निकल सकते हैं। सभापति महोदय, मैं आपके माध्यम से दो-तीन बातों की तरफ वित्त मंत्री जी का ध्यान आकर्षित करना चाहूँगा। इसमें वभिन्न मंत्रालयों के लिए जो पैसे की मांग की गई है, अभी बाढ़ और सूखे पर इस सदन ने नियम १९३ के तहत चर्चा की थी। मैं एक बुनियादी सवाल आपके द्वारा वित्त मंत्री जी के सामने रखना चाहूँगा। सभापति महोदय, पं. जवाहर लाल नेहरू के जमाने से पहली पंचवर्षीय योजना से लेकर नौवीं पंचवर्षीय योजना तक और १०वीं पंचवर्षीय योजना जिसका प्रारूप अब तैयार हो रहा है, उस समय से हमारे देश में सिंचाई के लिए जो परियोजनाएं प्रारंभ हुई थीं, वे आज तक पूरी नहीं हुई हैं। मैं आपके ध्यान में लाना चाहता हूं कि पहली पंचवर्षीय योजना की पांच सिंचाई परियोजनाएं, दूसरी पंचवर्षीय योजना की सात सिंचाई परियोजनाएं और तीसरी पंचवर्षीय योजना की १२ सिंचाई परियोजनाएं अभी तक पूरी नहीं हुई हैं और उन्हें पूर्ण करने हेतु १०वीं पंचवर्षीय योजना में भी धन जोडने का प्रावधान किया गया है। इन सिंचाई परियोजनाओं को पूरा करने के लिए लगभग ९० हजार करोड़ रुपए की आवश्यकता है। महोदय, मेरी आपके माध्यम से वित्त मंत्री जी से प्रार्थना है कि हम सिंचाई के लिए भगवान के भरोसे नहीं रह सकते। आज हमारे देश में खेती प्रकृति पर, वर्षा पर निर्भर करती है। हमारे देश में सिंचाई का कोई स्थाई बंदोबस्त होना चाहिए। मेरा वित्त मंत्री जी से निवेदन है कि सिंचाई की जो परियोजनाएं हैं उन्हें समयबद्ध कार्यक्रम बनाकर पूरा किए जाने की आवश्यकता है। महोदय, दूसरी बात मैं यह कहना चाहता हूं कि लालकिले की प्राचीर से वर्ष १९९८ में प्रधान मंत्री ने देश को संबोधित करते हुए कहा था कि हम १० वर्षों में १० करोड़ लोगों को रोजगार देंगे। राष्ट्रपति जी ने अपने अभिभाषण में इस संसद को संबोधित करते हुए कहा कि हम एक वर्ष में एक करोड़ लोगों को रोजगार देंगे। राष्ट्रपति के अभिभाषण में तो एक प्रकार से सरकार की प्रतिबद्धता होती है। सरकार जो करना चाहती है वही राष्ट्रपति के मुंह से कहलवाती है, लेकिन इस वर्ष तत्कालीन वित्त मंत्री श्री सिन्हा जी ने बजट प्रस्तुत करते हुए बेकारों को रोजगार देने के बारे में एक शब्द भी नहीं कहा। देश में बेकारों को रोजगार देने के बारे में पूरा बजट मौन है। रोजगार देने का कहीं कोई जिक्र नहीं है। हमारी आपसे प्रार्थना है कि यदि देश के बेरोजगारों को रोजगार देने की व्यवस्था नहीं की गई, तो देश में सामाजिक तनाव पैदा होगा और उसे कोई नहीं रोक सकेगा। आपकी जो नई आर्थिक नीति है, उससे लोग परेशान हो रहे हैं क्योंकि कोई व्यवस्थित तरीके से हिन्दुस्तान के लोगों को रोजगार देने का काम आप नहीं कर रहे हैं। मैं यह जरूर चाहूंगा कि बेरोजगार के सवाल पर सरकार जरूर ध्यान दे। सभापति महोदय, अनुपूरक अनुदान की मांगों में शहरी रोजगार और गरीबी उन्मूलन के लिए भी कुछ पैसे का प्रावधान करने की मांग की गई है। यह अच्छी बात है। शहरी रोजगार और गरीबी उन्मूलन के लिए शहरी हलकों में जरूर काम करें, लेकिन यदि आप ग्रामीण हलकों के लिए धन का आबंटन नहीं करेंगे, गांवों में जो लोग गरीबी रेखा के नीचे रह रहे हैं, जो बी.पी.एल. की सूची में हैं, उन्हें आधार मानकर यदि आप गरीब आदमियों के विकास का कार्यक्रम नहीं बनाएंगे, तो अच्छी बात नहीं होगी। मैं चाहता हूं कि आप शहरी क्षेत्रों के लिए धन आबंटन जरूर करें, लेकिन ग्रामीण इलाकों को भी धन आबंटित करना नहीं भूलें। यदि ऐसा नहीं होगा, तो मैं समझता हूं कि यह कोई अच्छी बात नहीं होगी। सभापति महोदय, अभी प्रभुनाथ सिंह जी देश की स्वास्थ्य सेवाओं के बारे में बोल रहे थे, लेकिन अब वे सदन में मौजूद नहीं हैं। मैं सदन के ध्यान में लाना चाहता हूं कि ग्रामीण अंचलों में जो हमारे प्राथमिक स्वास्थ्य केन्द्र हैं उन पर कुछ डॉक्टर तो केवल तनख्वाह लेने जाते हैं। दवाओं के लिए बजट एलोकेशन के नाम पर नहीं के बराबर है। एक स्वास्थ्य केन्द्र पर एक साल में मुश्किल से १२-१४ हजार रुपए दवाओं के लिए आबंटित किए जाते हैं, लेकिन तनख्वाह के रूप में ढाई-तीन लाख रुपए व्यय किए जाते हैं। आज प्राथमिक स्वास्थ्य केन्द्रों की हालत यह है कि वहां स्वास्थ्य की बेहतर सेवाएं तो छोड़िए प्राथमिक सेवाएं भी नहीं मिलती हैं। दूसरी तरफ दिल्ली में बत्रा, एस्कार्ट एवं अपोलो जैसे अस्पताल हैं जहां चकित्सा कराना ग्रामीणों के वश के बाहर है क्योंकि उनके पास इतना धन ही नहीं है। ग्रामों में प्राथमिक स्वास्थ्य केन्द्रों पर उन्हें चकित्सा की सुविधा प्राप्त नहीं है, शहर में पैसे के अभाव में वे अपनी तथा अपने परिवार की चकित्सा नहीं करा सकते हैं। ऐसी स्थिति में वे कहां जाएं ? इसलिए मैं आपके माध्यम से वित्त मंत्री जी से प्रार्थना करूंगा कि वे प्राथमिक स्वास्थ्य केन्द्रों पर समुचित दवाएं मिलने और डॉक्टरों की उपस्थिति सुनिश्चित करने की व्यवस्था हेतु पर्याप्त धन की व्यवस्था करें। सभापति महोदय, मंत्री महोदय ने अनुदानों की पूरक मांगों में जो वभिन्न मंत्रालयों के लिए मांग की है उसमें खास तौर से सिंचाई के लिए, अनुसूचित जाति के उत्थान के लिए, बेरोजगारों को रोजगार देने के लिए और सूखा तथा बाढ़ से राहत के लिए धनराशि की मांग नहीं की है। सबसे बड़ा सवाल यह है कि जब तक हम अपनी प्राथमिकताएं सुनिश्चित नहीं करेंगे और सामयिक फैसले नहीं लेंगे, तब तक देश की प्रगति नहीं हो सकती है। आज देश के तीन सूबों में बाढ़ है और देश का शेष भाग सूखे की चपेट में है। हमें यह अच्छा नहीं लगता है कि हम बार-बार इस सवाल को सदन में उठाने का काम करें। 17.00 hrs. 

इस सम्मानित सदन में सूखे और बाढ़ पर चर्चा की गई। मुझे माफ करना कि जो सूखे या बाढ़ से पीडित हैं, वे आपका भाषण सुनने के लिए तैयार नहीं हैं। वे यह सुनना नहीं चाहते कि श्री लाल कृष्ण आडवाणी जी की अध्यक्षता में एक टास्क फोर्स बनाया गया है और वह टास्क फोर्स काम करेगा। वे चाहते हैं कि उसके सामने परिणाम क्या आ रहा है, सरकार का सकारात्मक रवैया क्या है, सरकार क्या कर रही है और उसको मिल क्या रहा है ? अगर सूखे के सवाल पर आप युद्धस्तर पर प्रयास नहीं करेंगे तो देश में तनाव पैदा होगा, लूट होगा और स्थिति बिगड़ेगी। इसे दुनिया की कोई ताकत नहीं रोक सकती। इसलिए सरकार को अपनी प्राथमिकताओं को सुनिश्चित करना चाहिए। अभी सूखे से निपटने हेतू पांच हजार करोड़ रुपये की मांग वभिन्न प्रदेशों ने की है । आप रोज टास्क फोर्स बनाये, रोज कमेटी बनाइये, रोज मंत्रियों का सम्मेलन करिये लेकिन जो किसान परेशान है, जो अपने पशुओं को बेच रहा है, जिसके सामने खाने की समस्या है, वह आपकी टास्क फोर्स देखने को तैयार नहीं है। वह परिणाम चाहता है। सरकार इन सब बातों पर गंभीरता से सोचे। सामयिक, व्यावहारिक और प्राथमिकताओं के आधार पर अगर हिन्दुस्तान की दौलत खर्च होगी तो मैं समझता हूं कि ज्यादा अच्छा होगा। श्री सोहन पोटाई ( कांकेर ): सभापति महोदय, मैं वर्ष २००२-०३ के अनुपूरक बजट के पक्ष में बोलने के लिए खड़ा हुआ हूं। यह सप्लीमैंट्री बजट पहली बार नहीं है। हर सरकार बीच-बीच में सप्लीमैंट्री बजट सदन के समक्ष प्रस्तुत करती है। इसे राजनीतिक बहस का मुद्दा नहीं बल्कि इस बजट को किस प्रकार से सशक्त और सुदढ़ बनाया जाये, इस बात का सुझाव सदन में सदस्यों को रखना चाहिए। यह बात सत्य है कि माननीय अटल बिहारी वाजपेयी जी के नेतृत्व में जो सरकार है, देश की आर्थिक स्थिति जिस कगार पर पहुंची थी उसने उसे एक पटरी पर लाकर खड़ा किया। उसे पूरा देश जानता है। जहां तक उस पटरी पर तेज रफ्तार से जाने की बात है, यह बात संभव नहीं हुई क्योंकि समय-समय पर इस देश में कई ऐसे संकट आये चाहे युद्ध हो, भूकम्प हो, बाढ, सूखा हो या आंधी तूफान हो, इन सारे संकटों की वजह से जिस रफ्तार से विकास होना चाहिए था, वह विकास नहीं हो पाया। हमारा देश कृषि प्रधान देश है और कृषि प्रधान देश होने के नाते कृषि पर जितना बजट धन आवंटित होना चाहिए, उतना नहीं हो रहा। एक तरफ हम देख रहे हैं कि १०-११ राज्यों में सूखा है और दूसरी तरफ उत्तर में बाढ़ आई हुई है चाहे वह बिहार हो या आसाम। वहां बाढ़ का तांडव है। इस संबंध में हमें यह विचार करना चाहिए क्योंकि उत्तर में सारी बड़ी नदियां हैं और वहां प्रति वर्ष बाढ़ आती है, तबाही होती है। शेष राज्यों में कहीं न कहीं सूखा पड़ता है। इस परिस्थिति में एक ऐसे पायलट प्रौजैक्ट बनना चाहिए कि जो बड़ी नदियां का पानी है, वह उत्तर से दक्षिण तक नहरों के माध्यम से पहुंचाया जाये ताकि वहां पर अकाल की स्थिति निर्मित न हो और किसानों को भी पानी की समस्या न रहे। इसी तरह दूसरे राज्यों में भी बाढ़ की स्थिति निर्मित न हो। मैं आपके माध्यम से सरकार से निवेदन करना चाहता हूं कि इस पर आपको विचार करना चाहिए। जिस प्रकर सरकार के द्वारा पूरे देश को एक मुख्यधारा में जोड़ने के लिए चाहे वह प्रधान मंत्री ग्रामीण सड़क योजनाओं के माध्यम से हो, चाहे वह चतुर्भुज सड़क योजना के माध्यम से हो, सारे देश को विकास की मुख्य धारा में जोड़ने का लक्ष्य रखा गया है। इसी तरह से कृषि पर भी, जिस बिन्दु पर मैंने कहा है, उस पर विचार करना चाहिए। आज चाहे बाढ़ से हो या अकाल से हो, प्राकृतिक विपदा से जो क्षति होती है, उस क्षति का जो मुआवजा प्राप्त होता है, आज की परिस्थिति में वह बहुत कम मात्रा में है। आज से २५ वर्ष पहले उसका जो मापदण्ड था, उस मापदण्ड से क्षतिग्रस्त प्रभावित लोगों को मुआवजा प्राप्त होता है, जो पर्याप्त नहीं है। इस पर भी इस सदन में विचार होना चाहिए। सभापति महोदय : अगर आप मांग संख्या को भी सन्दर्भित करेंगे तो अच्छा होगा कि किस डिमांड के अन्तर्गत आप बोल रहे हैं। श्री सोहन पोटाई : स्वास्थ्य के ऊपर इस बजट में बहुत कम आबंटन रखा गया है। आज जिस तरह से कहीं-कहीं रुककर पानी आ रहा है और भीषण गर्मी है, इससे इस गर्मी के मौसम में कई प्रकार की बीमारियां फैल सकती हैं, इसलिए इस पर ज्यादा धन का आबंटन रखना चाहिए था। जहां तक अकाल के बारे में माननीय संसद के द्वारा इस बात को रखा गया है कि अकालग्रस्त क्षेत्र में अनाज और पैसा देना चाहिए, मैं कहना चाहता हूं कि छत्तीसगढ़ भी अकाल से प्रभावित क्षेत्र है, जहां पीने के पानी का संकट है, अनाज का संकट है और वहां बहुत सारी समस्याएं हैं। इसके लिए वहां पर इस बजट में प्रावधान होना चाहिए था। जहां तक अभी एक माननीय सदस्या कह रही थीं कि सरकार के द्वारा भेदभाव किया जाता है, इसे मैं उचित नहीं मानता। चूंकि पिछले समय छत्तीसगढ़ सरकार को पर्याप्त मात्रा में अनाज और पैसा प्राप्त हुआ था, लेकिन सरकार के पास योजना पर्याप्त नहीं होने के कारण आज तक वह पैसा और अनाज खर्च नहीं कर पाई। पैसा तो पर्याप्त मात्रा में मिलता है, लेकिन यह लाभकारी योजना पर खर्च हो इसकी नीति होनी चाहिए... सभापति महोदय : आप सूत्र वाक्य में अपनी बात कह दीजिए। श्री सोहन पोटाई : मैं कुछ और आगे कहना चाहता था, लेकिन इस अनुपूरक बजट पर अपना समर्थन कहते हुए मैं यहीं अपनी बात समाप्त करता हूं। …( व्यवधान) MR. CHAIRMAN : Shri Pandian, kindly cooperate with the Chair. Time is limited. SHRI P.H. PANDIAN ( TIRUNELVELI ): Sir, I went through the Annexure of the Demands for Excess Grants for 2002-03. I have not seen a line of support to States regarding drought conditions and natural calamities. So, I am upset. Sir, as early as in the first week of July, the Government of Tamil Nadu has asked Rs.300 crore to tide over the drought conditions. The Chief Minister has asked for Rs. 300 crore. That was also reiterated in the Ministerial Conference held last week. We did not hear a word of reply and that is why, I am taking up this opportunity to get a reply from the hon. Finance Minister. Then, Sir, about three months back, the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu had asked for a State package of Rs.3000 crore. There is no answer for that also. Now, to tide over this drought condition, the Chief Minister has convened a meeting of Collectors of Tamil Nadu yesterday. Sir, in that meeting she even went to the extent of tapping funds from each MLA, of Rs. 15 lakh from each MLA to be contributed from MLALAD Scheme to generate Rs. 30 crore. I would say that had this Rs. 3,000 crore been allocated or granted to the State of Tamil Nadu, it would have gone ahead in tiding over the drought conditions. Apart from that, hon. Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, Dr. Puratchi Thalaivi has asked for another Rs. 123 crore for drought relief. It is because some of the Collectors, who are the field officers, complained that bore wells have gone dry; water table has gone down; and agriculture has come to a stand still. For the delta area, the Chief Minister has granted about Rs. 55 crore. This is a tragic case of one State. I would say that this is the minimum requirement for a State. For Coconut Crop Damage Scheme, she has asked for Rs. 250 crore. For Food for Work Scheme and Wasteland Development Scheme, the estimate has come to about Rs. 100 crore. I went through this Table of the Excess Grants or the current grant for 2002-03. That is why I said that we are not satisfied. Irrigation and agriculture operations form part of important deliberations in Parliament and elsewhere. We have been asking the Central Government to grant more funds to the State to tide over these problems. I want to know from the Finance Minister whether there is any monitoring cell to monitor all the States which are suffering from drought scenario and other natural calamities. Today I saw in the library yesterday’s The Hindu. The Tamil Nadu Government has formulated a contingency plan. In the same way, the Union Government should also formulate a contingency plan. It is because you know there will be earthquake; you know every year there will be drought conditions; and you know every year there will be problems for farmers. Is there any contingency plan? If not, it is high time that a contingency plan should have been evolved by the hon. Finance Minister. The hon. Finance Minister is a good diplomat. I know that. I was a Member of the Committee on External Affairs Committee. He can negotiate with any State and solve the problem. I know he will solve the problem of Tamil Nadu, because he will finance it wholly. He comes there often. He already came there a number of occasions in 1998. I know that. I request the hon. Finance Minister, through you Mr. Chairman, to grant Rs. 3,000 crore which the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister, Dr. Puratchi Thalaivi asked first, and the present Rs. 300 crore, apart from the Rs. 100 crore that we want for wasteland development immediately to tide over the drought conditions. It comes to about Rs. 750 crore totally. If you grant Rs. 3,750 crores, Shri C.P. Radhakrishnan will be happy, Shri Gingee Ramachandran will be happy and all your Members will be happy. … (Interruptions) I will conclude my speech. Last week we deliberated over the drought conditions. We have deliberated that in detail. But last week we were not able to meet the hon. Finance Minister. Now, the hon. Finance Minister is here. It is the only opportunity when we can ask the hon. Finance Minister directly about any such thing. Shri Anant Geete is also here. He is also a great friend of mine. I hope they will be able to shell out money from the Union Treasury. So, I would say that the request of the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Dr. Puratchi Thalaivi Jayalalitha must be considered and it must be acceded to. They should extend the Union Government’s cooperation to the State of Tamil Nadu to tide over the problems faced by the Government. In every sphere, money is needed to run the administration. Here, we are able to earn resources,. to some extent. The State has to depend upon the Central Government for its own resources, for any earning programme, for any planning. For any such thing, it has to depend upon the Union Government. In respect of modernisation of the police force also, I saw that there was no such grant. You have asked for Rs.150 crore or something like that. So, I would appeal to the hon. Finance Minister to concede to the demands of all the States, especially the States which are facing the drought condition. More particularly, Tamil Nadu is facing this situation. I would request the hon. Minister to offer his purse to the State of Tamil Nadu. With these words, I conclude. डॉ. रघुवंश प्रसाद सिंह ( वैशाली ): सभापति महोदय, बजट पास किये हुए ज्यादा दिन नहीं हुए हैं और इन्होंने अनुपूरक अनुदान की मांग तुरंत चलाई है। इससे लगता है कि इनको तुरंत सप्लीमेंटरी बजट की जरूरत पड़ गयी। ये लोग ६९ अरब की डिमांड लाए हैं और ८३ अरब की अनुपूरक डिमांड लाए हैं। हम लोग समझते थे कि ६९ अरब में अगर बाढ़-सूखा आ गया तो उसमें जल्दी से ये अनुपूरक मांग लाए हैं, सदन से पास हो जाना चाहिए। कृषि-विभाग में ये लोग एक लाख रुपया देते हैं। हमें नहीं लगता है कि किसके लिए घाटा हो गया और एक लाख रुपया तुरंत ले आये हैं। कृषि विभाग में क्या घाटा आ गया। वित्त मंत्री माननीय यशवंत सिन्हा जी को हटाकर इनको लाया गया, इससे लगता है कि देश के वित्त-विभाग की हालत ठीक नहीं है। शायद बदल देने के कुछ सुधार हो जाए, ये अपेक्षा है। उस समय भाजपा के लोगों ने कहा था कि खराब बजट होने से, गरीबोन्मुखी, किसानोन्मुखी, ग्रामोन्मुखी बजट न होने से चुनाव पर खराब असर पड़ा है। इसलिए वित्त-विभाग से उनकी बदली हो गयी और विदेश-विभाग में वे चले गये। वित्त विभाग को चौपट कर गये हैं, विदेश विभाग में क्या करेंगे, ये तो बाद में पता चलेगा। लेकिन इनके आने का औचित्य क्या है? एक बयान इनका हमने सुना है कि ८३ हजार करोड़ रुपया एनपीए जो है, वह लूट है। लूट है तो उसको छूट किसने दी? लूटेरों पर कार्रवाई आप कीजिएगा तो हम जानेंगे कि सुधार हो रहा है। माननीय प्रभुनाथ सिंह जी चले गये हैं। वे गांव की बात कर रहे थे। गांव में इन्होंने कहां-कुछ बढ़ाया है। कोई भी एक आइटम बता दीजिए कि उसमें कोई क्वालिटेटिव चेंज आया हो जिससे लगे कि माननीय यशवंत सिन्हा चले गये और माननीय जसवंत सिंह जी आ गये तो कुछ हुआ है। वे ते गरीबों के दुश्मन थे, मल्टी-नेशनल और सीआईआई के पक्षधर थे। हम सदन में कहते थे कि आप बताइये कि कोई एक नीति, कोई एक कार्यक्रम ऐसा है जो गरीबों के लिए हो या उनकी किताब में कोई गरीब भी हो। यहां मल्टी नेशनल और पूंजीपतियों का बोलबाला है। उसे कहीं संरक्षण की जरूरत नहीं है क्योंकि वे स्वयं ताकतवर हैं। जिन का धन बढ़ गया है उन्हें संरक्षण की जरूरत नहीं है। गरीब लोगों को संरक्षण देने की जरूरत है। देश में बेरोजगारी की समस्या है। बेरोजगारों की तरफ कोई ध्यान नहीं दिया जा रहा है। कहा गया था कि एक करोड़ लोगों को हर वर्ष रोजगार दिया जाएगा। रोजगार देने का काम न होकर रोजगार छीनने का काम हो रहा है। देश बेचने के लिए डिसइनवैस्टमैंट विभाग अलग से बना दिया। मैं इस पर अलग से बोलूंगा क्योंकि इस पर बहस मंजूर है। यह देश का सवाल है। किसानों, बेरोजगार नौजवानों की हालत खराब है। सरकार की वित्तीय नीति में भारी परिवर्तन की जरूरत है वरना कोलाहल होने वाला है। अभी बाढ़ और सुखाड़ का सवाल है। जो राज्य इन से प्रभावित हुए उन्होंने इसे लेकर प्रदर्शन किया। इसमें दिल्ली भी शामिल है। १४-१५ राज्य इस समय सुखाड़ से ग्रस्त हैं। सभापति महोदय : बाढ़ और सुखाड़ पर विस्तार से चर्चा हो चुकी है। डॉ. रघुवंश प्रसाद सिंह : मैं उसकी चर्चा नहीं कर रहा हूं। मैं केवल इसका जिक्र कर रहा हूं। सूखे के कारण कई राज्य तबाह हो गए हैं। दो-तीन राज्य बाढ़ और सुखाड़ से तबाह हैं लेकिन बिहार राज्य तीन तरफ यानी बाढ़, सुखाड़ और भारत सरकार के रवैये से तबाह हो रहा है। इसका कैसे इंतजाम होगा? यशवंत सिन्हा को हटाने का एक बड़ा कारण यह भी था। बिहार के साथ बेईमानी, जबर्दस्ती, अन्याय और दुश्मनों जैसा व्यवहार हुआ। यह सवाल सदन में भी उठा था। लोग कहते हैं कि सदन में चर्चा होने के बाद भी उसका कोई असर नहीं पड़ता। ऐसी बात नहीं है। सदन में कही बात का बड़ा असर पड़ता है। उसका मतलब निकलता है। ऐसा नहीं है कि हमने कुछ बोल दिया, उधर से जवाब आ गया और पास होकर सब बात खत्म हो गई। देश और दुनिया भर में बातें जाती हैं और उनका असर पड़ता है। बिहार के साथ हमेशा अन्याय हुआ है। पैकेज वाले मामले का कुछ नहीं हुआ। कुंवर सेन कमेटी ने कहा था कि बिहार अन्तर्राष्ट्रीय नदियों से प्रभावित होता है और राज्य सरकार के बस में नहीं है कि वह बाढ़ पर नियंत्रण पा सके। कुंवर सेन कमेटी ने जो रिपोर्ट दी, आप उसका जिम्मा ले लें और उसे मंगा कर देख लें कि उसने क्या सिफारिशें कीं, कैसे कुछ काम हो सकता है। बिहार का जब बंटवारा हुआ और नया झारखंड राज्य बना उस समय कहा गया था कि चूंकि सब कुछ झारखंड में चला गया है यानी स्कूल, कालेज उधर चले गए हैं, इसलिए बिहार के साथ इन्साफ होगा। पुनर्गठन आयोग की रिपोर्ट में भी कहा गया था कि ५०-५० परसैंट दोनों राज्यों का होगा। अभी फैसला हुआ है कि झारखंड का ७५ परसैंट और बिहार का २५ परसैंट होगा। बंटवारे से पहले ११वें वित्त आयोग ने बिहार और झारखंड के बारे में एक साथ अनुशंसा की। सभापति महोदय: आप बंटवारे और ११वें वित्त आयोग की चर्चा सदन में कई बार कर चुके हैं। डॉ. रघुवंश प्रसाद सिंह : जो बटवारा हुआ, वह जमीन के आधार पर हुआ। १०वें वित्त आयोग द्वारा उसमें कहा गया कि १० वर्षों में बिहार में काफी बरबादी हुई है। प्राकृतिक आपदा से बिहार में ५० परसेंट और झारखंड में बहुत कम बरबादी हुई है। बिहार में कभी-कभी तो प्रतिवर्ष १०००-१२०० करोड़ रुपये की बरबादी होती है। बिहार के चार-पांच जिले, जिनमें दरभंगा, सीतामढ़ी, मुजफ्फरपुर तबाह हुये हैं…( व्यवधान) सभापति महोदय : अब आप समाप्त कीजिये। आप तो चेयर पर बैठने वालों में से हैं। डॉ. रघुवंश प्रसाद सिंह : सभापति जी, १०वें और ११वें वित्त आयोग ने अनुशंसा की थी। उसमें बिहार के लिये केवल एक साल तो रूपया मिला लेकिन उसके बाद बिहार के हिस्से का पैसा रोक दिया गया। बिहार में स्थानीय निकाय के चुनाव भी हो गये, लेकिन पैसा नहीं दिया गया जबकि झारखंड में स्थानीय निकायों के चुनाव नहीं हुये, फिर भी उन्हें पैसा दिया गया है। हमारा ६०० करोड़ रुपया रोक कर रखा है। झारखंड को २८ करोड़ रुपया और बिहार को केवल ९ करोड़ रुपया दिया गया। बिहार को एक चौथाई और झारखंड को तीन चौथाई रुपया दिया गया। यह कौन सा फार्मूला है? बिहार की आबादी ८ करोड़, ३० लाख है और झारखंड की २ करोड़ ६९ लाख। हमारे गांव ४५ हजार हैं जबकि झारखंड में २२ हजार हैं। क्या इस तरह से न्याय किया गया है? अब नये वित्त मंत्री आये हैं, वे इन्साफ करेंगे? सभापति महोदय : अब आप समाप्त कीजिये। आपका रिकार्ड में नहीं जायेगा। श्री भान सिंह भौरा। डा. रघुवंश प्रसाद सिंह : नवीं पंचवर्षीय योजना में जो सैंट्रली स्पौंसर्ड स्कीम्स हैं, उसमें बिहार को न्याय नहीं मिला। देश में पीने के पानी के लिये ६५०० करोड़ रुपया खर्च किया गया। बिहार को कम से कम ६०० करोड़ रुपया मिलना चाहिये था जबकि केवल ३० करोड़ रुपया दिया गया…( व्यवधान) सभापति महोदय : रघुवंश प्रसाद सिंह जी, आपके भाषण का उल्लेख नहीं हो रहा है। मैंने श्री भान सिंह भौरा का नाम बुलाया है। डॉ. रघुवंश प्रसाद सिंह : हमारी न्याय की लड़ाई है। …( व्यवधान)हमारे बिहार की ८ करोड़ ३० लाख की आबादी है, यह सरकार उसके विकास को बाधित कर रही है…( व्यवधान)सरकार ने बिहार को गरीब बनाकर छोड़ दिया है।…( व्यवधान)हम आगे और शोषण नहीं होने देंगे। अन्याय और जुल्म के खिलाफ 
  

 
 

 

लड़ेंगे इन धन पशुओं से पिंड छुड़ाइये। नहीं तो धनपशु लोग देश को चौपट कर देंगे और सर्वनाश कर देंगे। सभापति महोदय : मुझे खेद है कि जो व्यवस्था के लिए यहां बैठते हैं, कई बार उन्हीं के कारण अव्यवस्था होती है। मैं क्या कर सकता हूं। यह आसन्दी की कठिनाई है, उसे महसूस करना चाहिए।…( व्यवधान) श्री भान सिंह भौरा ( भटिंडा ) : सभापति महोदय, हम सप्लीमैन्ट्री डिमांड्स पर चर्चा कर रहे हैं। बजट सैशन को समाप्त हुए सिर्फ ढाई महीने हुए हैं, ढाई महीने पहले हमारा बजट पास हुआ था। ढाई महीने में इतनी डिमांड्स और आ गईं। अगली बार क्या होगा, यह हम देखने वाले हैं कि अगले दो महीने में और इतनी डिमांड्स आ जायेंगी। इसकी जिम्मेदारी किस पर हैं। इसकी जिम्मेदारी अफसरों पर हैं या मंत्री जी पर है। यह हमें और सदन को देखना होगा। लेकिन जो अनुपूरक मांगे लाई गई हैं, उनमें आम लोगों के लिए कुछ नहीं है। बेरोजगारों, गरीबों, किसानों और दबे-कुचले लोगों के लिए इसमें कुछ नहीं है। फिर हम इसे कैसे सपोर्ट करें। सभापति महोदय, राज्यों को जो पैसा जाता है मैं उसका एक उदाहरण आपको देना चाहता हूं। पंजाब में पीने के पानी के लिए भटिंडा, मोगा और मुक्तसर इन तीन जिलों में पैसा गया। भटिंडा जिले के बीच में पहले मानसा था, जो कट गया, उसे काट दिया गया और उसमें मुक्तसर डाल दिया। क्योंकि वह पुराने चीफ मनिस्टर का जिला था। इस तरह से भटिंडा को कितना पैसा दिया, यह मैं आपको बताता हूं। भटिंडा को ७,५२,१९,००० रुपये, मोगा को ३.४४ करोड़ रुपये और मुक्तसर को ३९.९२ करोड़ रुपये दिये गये। जबकि वह जिला मोगा से छोटा है। यह पैसा पंजाब में कहां गया, यह आप खुद अखबारों में पढ़ते होंगे कि पैसा संगत दर्शन में कैसे चला गया, जिसकी इंक्वायरी हो रही है, जो आपके सामने है। इसलिए मैं समझता हूं कि वित्त मंत्री जी अच्छा काम करें, पुराने वित्त मंत्री की तरह देश को बेचने का काम न करें तो बहुत अच्छा होगा। आपने डिसइनवैस्टमैन्ट का विभाग श्री अरुण शौरी को दिया है। उनके हाथ से भला नहीं हो रहा है। आज हिंदुस्तान को बचाना है, आप हिन्दुस्तान को बचाइये। जैसे सिन्हा जी से बचाना था, इसलिए उन्हें फॉरेन अफेयर्स दे दिया। इसे भी बचाने के लिए मैं आपसे कहना चाहता हूं। मैं चाहता हूं कि मानसा क्षेत्र पीने के पानी की कमी से बुरी तरह से प्रभावित है, इसे पीने के पानी स्कीम में डालना चाहिए। मैं एक सुझाव देना चाहता हूं कि इंकम टैक्स आम लोगों पर लगता है, छोटे मुलाजिमों पर भी लगता है। अगर इन्हें इसमें छूट दे दें तो अच्छा होगा। आज इंकम टैक्स में धांधली हो रही हैं। बड़े-बड़े कारखानेदार फार्म बनाकर रखते हैं और वे अपनी इंकम फार्म में दिखाकर ब्लैक मनी को व्हाइट मनी बनाते हैं। इसलिए बड़े-बड़े फार्म वालों को इंकम टैक्स में क्यों छूट दी जाती हैं। यह गलत है। इसलिए मैं समझता हूं कि बड़े-बड़े फाम्र्स पर इंकम टैक्स लगाया जाए और छोटे मुलाजिमों को इसमें छूट दी जाए। जो खेत मज़दूर हैं, वे सूखे और बाढ़ में सबसे ज्यादा प्रभावित होते हैं। खेत मज़दूर जो खेती में काम करता है, जब खेती नहीं होगी तो खेत मज़दूर कहां रहेगा? इसलिए उनके लिए कोई विशेष योजना बनाएं ताकि उनकी मदद की जा सके। ‘फूड फॉर वर्क’ चलाने के लिए और बेरोज़गारों को नौकरी देने के लिए भी मंत्री जी को सोचना चाहिए। हमने परसों भी कहा था कि आपके गोदामों में इतना गेहूँ पड़ो है कि खराब हो रहा है। खराब होने के बाद आपको वह फेंकना पड़ेगा। अगर उसे गरीब लोगों को सस्ते रेट पर बांट दें, एक रुपया किलो के हिसाब से भी बांट दें तो लोगों के खाने के काम आ सकेगा। वित्त मंत्री जी लोगों के कामों की स्कीम बनाएँ, गरीबों के भले की स्कीम बनाएं तो हम उनका स्वागत करेंगे। सभापति महोदय : राष्ट्रपाल जी, आपकी पार्टी का समय नहीं है लेकिन मैं आपको दो मिनट का समय देता हूँ। अगर बोल सकें तो दो मिनट में अपनी बात रखें अन्यथा मैं दूसरे सदस्य का नाम बुलाता हूँ। श्री प्रवीण राष्ट्रपाल : मैं बोलना तो चाहता हूँ, लेकिन टैलीग्राफिक लैंग्वेज में बोलूँगा। सभापति महोदय : मुझे मालूम है, लेकिन माननीय मंत्री जी को भी उत्तर देना है। श्री प्रवीण राष्ट्रपाल : मैं गुजरात से आता हूँ। पैसे के बारे में हमारे बहुत से सवाल हैं। मैं थोड़ा समय लूंगा। सभापति महोदय : समय नहीं है। समय होता तो मैं आपको कह देता। आप शुरू करे। SHRI PRAVIN RASHTRAPAL : Mr. Chairman, Sir, we are discussing about the Appropriation Bill Nos. 4 and 5. With reference to Appropriation Bill No. 4, I would like to draw the attention of the hon. Minister to article 114A of the Indian Constitution, under which the Appropriation Bill can be presented to this House. Sir, the Finance Minister is new to this Ministry but he is not new to the business of the House. Article 114 (1) says : Then, there are various conditions. I am extremely sorry to bring to your kind notice that the Appropriation Bill No. 4 is for the Financial Year 1999-2000 and today we are in the Financial Year 2002-03. I would like to know as to who made the delay and who is responsible for the delay in approaching this House for the Supplementary Grants? Also I would like to know whether it is covered under article 114 of the Constitution or not. When the Finance Minister took over, he made three remarks in his first Press Conference. I welcome all those remarks. He worried about the food for the people. It is a very important concern. His second concern was that the purchasing power of the common people should be improved. His third concern was that the income of the Government by way of tax collections should improve. I would like to give two extreme examples. One is from Gujarat. A widow, aged 40, committed suicide in the city of Cambay before one week, as reported in the Press on the 24th July. Her name was Vaishali Ben, aged 40, belonging to Cambay. She had two children. Her husband died four months before. The family was doing business of selling spices. They had taken bank loan and money from other creditors. After her husband died, the bank started recovery proceedings along with the creditors. The widow was not able to face the situation and committed suicide. On the other side, we have NPA to the extent of Rs. 83,000 crore. My friend, Shri Kirit Somaiya was defending that this Government is not responsible for recovery of that. I would like to bring out this contrast. I also want to give two specific cases to the hon. Finance Minister for detailed investigation. One is, as reported in the Press, the CBI has issued a red corner notice to a particular business group doing business from Delhi and settled in UK about drawback availment of Rs.150 crore on the basis of false export consignment papers. Let this House know which is that party and what actions are being taken by the Finance Minister. These are very serious issues. … (Interruptions) I would request that I may be allowed some more time. MR. CHAIRMAN : Please sit down. SHRI PRAVIN RASHTRAPAL : I am giving only cases. I am concerned about the Income Tax Department because I had worked in the Income Tax Department for 37 years. So, I am giving some details which are in the interest of the entire country. I am not criticising the Government. MR. CHAIRMAN: There is no time. Please sit down. SHRI LAKSHMAN SINGH ( RAJGARH ): He has very good points. Please allow him. MR. CHAIRMAN: I know that well. SHRI PRAVIN RASHTRAPAL : Four particular NGOs were granted permission in Gujarat to import clothes for the earthquake victims. Now it is found, as reported in the Press, that instead of clothes, they were bringing other items along with the clothes. Instead of being distributed among the earthquake victims in Gujarat, those items were sold in the markets of Chennai, Kolkata and Mumbai. I do not want to give the name of the Trusts or the NGOs which were doing these activities. But I want the Government to investigate and inform this House which are these firms and what actions are being taken. MR. CHAIRMAN: Please conclude. SHRI PRAVIN RASHTRAPAL : I want to give specific details only. MR. CHAIRMAN: The Minister has to reply. There is no time. SHRI PRAVIN RASHTRAPAL : Sir, in the last March-April ethnic cleansing which was carried out in Gujarat with the support of the State Government to annihilate one particular class from the commerce of Gujarat, the loss to the State in the months of March and April was Rs.10,000 crore. Gujarat is the commerce headquarters of the country. The loss to the production was Rs.500 crore per day. One wing of the ruling Party carried out the ethnic cleansing. Now another wing of the Government, that is, the Insurance Department, has failed to pay for the loss of properties and business activities which were destroyed in that part of the country. Who is responsible for this? So I am worried about the money which is allocated from the Central Government. I would like to know from the hon. Finance Minister whether there is proper monitoring or not. MR. CHAIRMAN: Please sit down. This is not fair. SHRI PRAVIN RASHTRAPAL : Kindly allow me some more time. MR. CHAIRMAN: You are disobeying the Chair. SHRI PRAVIN RASHTRAPAL Let me conclude. MR. CHAIRMAN: Please conclude. SHRI PRAVIN RASHTRAPAL : Sir, this very House approved the two per cent increase in the surcharge on income tax for helping the earthquake victims of Gujarat. That amount comes to Rs.2,600 crore. I just want to know from the hon. Finance Minister whether this amount of Rs.2,600 crore collected from the surcharge on income tax is given to the Gujarat Government or not. If it is given to the Government of Gujarat, how is it spent? The World Bank has given interest-free loan to the Government of Gujarat amounting to Rs.4,500 crore for earthquake victims. I would like to know from the hon. Finance Minister whether that amount is properly utilised or not. I also want to know what help is being given by the Central Government to the State Government to face the recent riot-created problems in the State of Gujarat. According to me, the Government of Gujarat had spent only Rs.59 crore.… (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: Nothing will go on record. (Interruptions) * 
  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

* Not Recorded 

 

श्री हरीभाऊ शंकर महाले ( मालेगांव ): सभापति महोदय, आपने मुझे बोलने का समय दिया, इसके लिए आपका बहुत-बहुत धन्यवाद। करेंसी, सिक्का निमार्ंण और स्टैम्प मांग क्रमांक २६ के बारे में कहना चाहूंगा कि आर.बी.आई. ने प्लास्टिक पोलीमर की बैंक नोट (करेंसी नोट) चलन में लाई गई है। सरकार बार-बार कहती है कि आर.बी.आई. ने ऐसा नहीं किया। आर.बी.आई. ने आस्ट्रेलियन कंपनी से प्रभावित होकर प्लास्टिक प्रोडक्ट्स के कुछ रिम्स पर प्रायोगिक रूप से आपके देश के नोट छापे थे और कंसाइनमैंट देश के बाहर आस्ट्रेलिया भेजा था। इस बारे में सरकार की अनुमति नहीं ली गई। यह व्यवहार गैरकानूनी है। मैं जानना चाहता हं कि क्या सरकार को इस बारे में मालूम है और यदि मालूम है तो वह आर.बी.आई के विरुद्ध क्या कार्रवाई करने जा रही है। नासिक डिस्टि्रक्ट में एक सिंहस्त मेला २००३ में होने वाला है। भारत सरकार को मैं धन्यवाद देता हूं कि उसने १०० करोड़ रुपये देना मंजूर कर लिया है जिसमें से ५० करोड़ रुपये की रकम उन्होंने भेज दी है। मेरा कहना है कि बाकी के ५० करोड़ रुपये भी आप जल्दी से जल्दी भिजवा दें। आदिम जाति के बारे में महाराष्ट्र सरकार ने शिबरी महामंडल प्रस्थापित किया है। इसमें ५० प्रतिशत रकम महाराष्ट्र सरकार को देनी है और ५० प्रतिशत रकम भारत सरकार को देनी है। मेरा आपके माध्यम से सरकार से निवेदन है कि वे १५ करोड़ रुपये जल्द दे दें। मैं यह भी कहना चाहता हूं कि सूखे के बारे में यहां पर बहस हो चुकी है। मैं उस पर बहस न करके केवल यही कहना चाहता हूं कि आप उनके लिए ज्यादा से ज्यादा रकम दें। SHRI ANANDRAO VITHOBA ADSUL ( BULDANA ): Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Sir. I rise to support the Supplementary Demands for Grants. The hon. Minister of Finance has kept 32 grants which need additional Rs.7,700.16 crore, out of which the net cash outgo is Rs.3,913.36 and the remaining Rs.4,093.56 is the enhancement of the cash receipts. While going through the Demands, department-wise, I found that our hon. Minister of Finance has demanded Rs.500 crore for the UTI to meet the shortfall between the assured repurchase price and the net asset value. 17.49 hrs. (Dr. Raghuvansh Prasad Singh in the Chair) 

I welcome and thank our hon. Minister of Finance who has taken steps to reassure the investors who have invested their money in the UTI because of their faith in the Government. This is a very courageous step that our hon. Minister of Finance has taken. But simultaneously, the officials and office-bearers working in the UTI must be made accountable for the misappropriation that has taken place over there. About Rs.331 crore are demanded for VRS to the employees of the Indian Iron and Steel Company and the Bharat Refractories Company. This is also a good step taken by our hon. Minister of Finance in the interest of the employees of these companies. I have seen that in the Department of Heavy Industries, there is an accounting adjustment in respect of transactions relating to revival plan for the Tyre Corporation of India Limited of Rs.100.20 crore and for the Hindustan Paper Corporation of India of Rs.445.21 crore. The revival of the companies is definitely essential for these days. For the sake of employment of the workers, it is also a good step taken by our hon. Minister of Finance. But I am unhappy with the provision for Agriculture and Cooperative Department. The total amount is Rs. 9 crore only. Sir, as we are providing about Rs. 62,000 crore for the NPAs in the nationalised banks, we are providing only Rs. 100 crore in the Budget for the cooperative sector. It is a very meagre amount as compared to nationalised banks’ provision. Sir, there is a very short time to me and ultimately the hon. Minister of Finance has to reply. That is why, I thank the hon. Minister of Finance and also to you for the opportunity given to me. THE MINISTER OF FINANCE AND COMPANY AFFAIRS (SHRI JASWANT SINGH): Sir, I am very grateful to the hon. Members for the contributions that they have made and the suggestions and observations that they have made. As I proceed to respond to the observations made by the hon. Members depending on whether the observation was in English or Hindi, I will attempt to answer the issue in that very language. Let me first deal with certain specific observations made. Our old friend Shrimati Margaret Alva found everything negative. It is a matter of some disappointment to me, but rather than reverting the issue politically, let me attempt to answer the issues on the basis of statistical data because there is a very little scope in empirically established statistical data to play politics with the issues involved. She, as indeed did Shri Rupchand Pal and some other hon. Members, has said that industrial growth is stagnating. This is factually incorrect because the overall industrial production has actually increased by 3.8 per cent in the first two months of April and May as against 2.1 per cent in the first two months of the corresponding period last year. I am glad she is here. She was good enough to suggest that exports are falling, as indeed did my old friend, Shri Rupchand Pal and some other speakers have spoken about it. I am sorry that these two things are factually not correct. This is empirically and statistically established data; this is not the Government data, this is given by the Statistical Institute. The exports have grown in dollar terms by 10.5 per cent in April-May, in two months, as against the negative growth of minus 2.1 per cent last year of the same period. This is the data. She also suggested that revenue collection … (Interruptions) I can only talk … (Interruptions) If they croan by this figure in the first two months of current year, I am only one month, not even one month old in the Ministry and I can only answer that. … (Interruptions) I did not find it necessary to interrupt my friend, Shriamti Margaret Alva when she spoke. … (Interruptions) I am very flattered and I am very gratified that you are with me. Let me also share with you about our revenue collection. I am really very happy on these two aspects. Firstly, there has been an increase of nearly 21 per cent in gross revenue collection and 16.76 per cent in non-tax collection this year up to May – I have not got the June and July figures here – as compared to the corresponding figures last year. Though I will be coming back to it in a moment, I am also very glad that because of the response that we have got about Permanent Account Numbers and the long queues that got established, yesterday, I think for the first time ever, we took a decision to extend the period in which the citizens could complete the formality. I am very happy to say this. This is not a response to something that is declining. I would, therefore, appeal to hon. Members that, by all means, make the political points that you wish to find fault with us politically. There are certain aspects that really do not address themselves to the politics of it. I have mentioned about revenue collection. Revenue collection is not my personal revenue that is being collected, it is the revenue of the country. So much of it goes to the States. If the total revenue collection goes up, the entire country is benefited. It is not necessary to decry what is a universal fact. She suggested that interest payments have increased in absolute terms. Yes, they have increased. But the rate of increase in interest payments has declined. On FDI and drought, let me share – I am not saying this to score a debating point, but I am saying this really to establish the facts of the matter - with my friend, the hon. Shrimati Margaret Alva, and I shall faithfully respond to what she said. She said that nothing has been given to Karnataka in the month of April to the end of July. From April to the end of July, the total releases of Rs.1,775.67 crore have been given to Karnataka under various heads, not just for drought relief. It is not that nothing has been given. SHRIMATI MARGARET ALVA : I am raising a specific question. I would be grateful if you would give me the figures of how much has been given for drought relief for 2000-01 and for 2001-02. मैं यही पूछ रही हूं, एक रुपया भी नहीं दिया है। We asked for it, we did not get a pie. प्रो. रासा सिंह रावत ( अजमेर ): सब कांग्रेस सरकारें ऐसा ही करती हैं। राजस्थान वाले भी ऐसा ही करते हैं।…( व्यवधान) श्री सुरेश रामराव जाधव ( परभनी ) : महाराष्ट्र में भी ऐसा ही चल रहा है। महाराष्ट्र सरकार ने भी कुछ नहीं दिया है। SHRI JASWANT SINGH : I shall address myself to the totality of the drought and what my old friend, hon. Shri Priya Ranjan Dasmunsi said just now. He has asked whether specifically for drought, anything has been released just now. Under calamity relief, about Rs.30 crore has been released but he wanted to know specifically for drought, what has been released just now. Let me say that there is already a provision of Rs.1,600 crore for assistance to States from Natural Calamity Contingency Fund for 2002-03. This is what all of you collectively, this House and that, cleared. Secondly, in the Budget for 2002-03, there is already a provision of Rs.600 crore for ‘Food-for-Work’ Programme and Rs.1,998 crore for the Sampoorna Gramin Rozgar Yojana. These sums of money are already available. 18.00 hrs. 

These themselves address the totality of the drought situation. Let me come to drought in a minute. I do find it necessary to respond to just one or two aspects that have been mentioned. One is about investment in Sakhalin. श्री बसुदेव आचार्य ( बांकुरा ): छ: बज रहे हैं। सभापति महोदय : सभा की अनुमति हो तो सदन का समय मंत्री जी का जवाब पूरा होने तक के लिए बढ़ा दिया जाए। श्री बसुदेव आचार्य : खाली जवाब तक ही नहीं, एप्रोप्रिएशन बिल तक के लिए बढ़ा दिया जाए, क्योंकि हमें उस पर बोलना है। कई माननीय सदस्य : हम सहमत हैं। सभापति महोदय : ठीक है। SHRI JASWANT SINGH : Sir, then broadly, essentially my distinguished friend and colleague of several years standing, Shri Priya Ranjan Dasmunsi made essentially three points. One is about investment in energy security by investing in an established and producing field in Sakhalin in Siberia in Russia. He has questioned the validity of this suggestion that whereas you have invested and, therefore, you deprived ONGC of funds for domestic – not production but certainly – exploration. I would request him that this is really best answered and I have dealt with this issue as the Minister of External Affairs. But this is really best answered, not in this forum but in another forum. Secondly, he referred to some correspondence that he has had with my distinguished predecessor Finance Minister and said that there is a variance between what the then Finance Minister said and what other information he received from SEBI. I am sure that there is no discrepancy in the intent behind this purpose. But I will address myself afresh to this matter and attempt to resolve the issue through you. 18.02 hrs. (Mr. Deputy-Speaker in the Chair) 

On, drought there was a suggestion not only from here but from various other quarters. I might assure the hon. Members that actually on drought we started working much earlier. Though from the part of the world where I come, we do not work on anything which suggests a bad omen, but having got the responsibility of finance, I do wish to share with the hon. Members that in the Finance Ministry we started working on this possibility of drought. It was because I was apprehensive of the possibility of a drought almost from the second day of my taking over the responsibility of this Ministry. I wish to share with the hon. Members that because of that and the hon. Prime Minister’s initiative some action has been taken. The hon. Prime Minister has, in fact, already announced the establishment of a Task Force on drought and the decision was taken well into last week and the formalities have been completed and so there was some mention made in the other House. The other day I have referred to it in the other House already that there exists a Task Force under the Chairmanship of hon. Deputy Prime Minister and I will be coming to it in a moment. There was a point made by hon. Member Shri Pravin Rashtrapal as to why the Excess Demands for the year 1999-2000 are now coming and are it part of article 14 and are they covered in that etc. and who is to account for them. I do not think anybody is to account for them really. It is very much part of the totality of the budgetary provisions and procedural making. What is completed in 1999-2000 from the Budget Estimates and through the Revised Estimates and through the Actuals and then they go to the C&AG and the C&AG makes some observations and then it goes to the Public Accounts Committee. The procedures of democratic parliamentary working, particularly, in matters of finance are very finely tuned and they continue to go on and quite often you have corrections being made some years after. So, that is really about 1999-2000. Sir, while I have expressed my gratitude to the hon. Members, I must share with hon. Members that it is neither an interim Budget nor is it an alternative to the annual budgetary exercise, but I wish to take this opportunity, Sir, to answer the question raised by Shri Prabhunath Singh though I have answered that. माननीय प्रभुनाथ सिंह जी ने एक प्रश्न पूछा था कि अगर हम कुछ करेंगे तब तो शायद आप हमें पहचानेंगे और बाकी कुछ नहीं करेंगे तो हम आपके लिए परदेशी हो जाएंगे। ऐसी परिस्थिति उत्पन्न मत होने दीजिए। हम थोड़ी ही देर में आपको समझा देते हैं कि इस बारे में विशेष रूप से क्या किया जा रहा है। श्री सुरेश रामराव जाधव : इसके बारे में सरकार का क्या रोल है? श्री जसवंत सिंह : चूंकि आपने प्रश्न पूछा है, इसलिए मैं बता देता हूं कि सदन के सामने एक ऑर्डिनेंस है जिसको बिल में कंवर्ट करना है और शायद आज लिस्टेड भी है। उसको आप पारित कर दीजिए। दोनों सदन पारित कर दें तो वह कानून बन जाएगा। SHRI RUPCHAND PAL : It should be referred to the Standing Committee. So many loopholes are there. … (Interruptions) SHRI JASWANT SINGH : Sir, we cannot refer an Ordinance to a Standing Committee. … (Interruptions) Sir, I cannot discuss this. … (Interruptions) MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: No running commentary please. … (Interruptions) SHRI JASWANT SINGH : Sir, I am truly astonished to see my old friends from CPI(M) are suggesting that we do not go in for collection of Non-Performing Assets. … (Interruptions) SHRI BASU DEB ACHARIA : We are in favour of that. Your action is belated action. … (Interruptions) SHRI RUPCHAND PAL : We are not against it. … (Interruptions) That is the opinion of the Chief of IBA. That is not going to serve any purpose. … (Interruptions) MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: Now, that is clear. He is mistaking you. Your position is not like that. SHRI JASWANT SINGH : Let me very briefly encapsulate. I am trying and will make it as brief as I can. I will, while addressing the issues of Supplementary Demands, also address myself to some immediate problems that have arisen and to some of the correctives that need to be applied immediately. These Supplementary Demands are for Rs. 8,007.16 crore. I must explain it. A number of Members have asked why it has come two months after the Budget. Please understand that the budgetary process does not start when Budget is presented in February, and eventually even though you finally give it your approval in the month of May, it is really based on the estimates of January. It is on the estimates of the Ministries and various Departments etc. of January that the February Budget gets finalised and gets approved by May. So, when I am coming to you in the month of July, towards the end of 7th month, I am not coming because it is only a two month period that has elapsed; it is really almost six to seven months period that has elapsed, and in-between, a number of developments could have taken place which are then listed in the Supplementary Budget. It is not anything unusual and it is certainly note denotative of any kind of laxity on the part of the Government. The cash outgo aggregate of this amount of Rs. 8,007.16 crore is about Rs. 3,913.36 crore and the remaining amount will be maximum savings within the approved Demands or by enhanced recoveries for the period. Of the total outgo of Rs. 3,913 crore, a sum of Rs. 2,409.60 crore is proposed for Plan schemes, Rs. 1,000 crore for financial restructuring of public sector undertakings and Rs. 500 crore for Unit Trust of India. I will come to all these in a minute. So far as the economic situation or economic prospects are concerned, let me share with the hon. Members, if you permit, Sir, it will take me just a minute or two, in the year 2001, we saw a downturn in the global economic activity with compression in global output and demand. This is reinforced by hike in security concerns, which I need not go into just now -- the September 11 attacks etc. Industrialised economies, therefore, demonstrated low growth, rising unemployment and low demand. This global trend had begun to show signs of reversal. Then, systemic deficiencies surfaced in the West, particularly leading to a loss of investor confidence and a decline in global capital markets. We are not insulated Sir, our economy is not insulated, but it is resilient and it continues to display the energy of recovery. As I just share with you, as of June, 2002 the overall real GDP growth is currently forecast at 5.5 per cent for 2002-2003. I am not satisfied with it. I do agree that for achieving an eight per cent growth rate, we need much higher savings ratio, of course, but at 5.5 per cent, we remain still, despite all these difficulties, amongst the seven or eight leading growth nations of the world. For the size of the economy, the size of the country, this is not a small thing. Services are projected to grow at around 6.9 per cent. Industrial output is growing at 5.9 per cent, though the agricultural growth is forecast to grow at 3.5 per cent. I have put a question-mark on it because this projection of 3.5 per cent predates the monsoon hiccups that we have been witnessing, particularly in the last two-week period. It is not possible to have statistical projections on a weekly basis or to keep up-to-date with events. I am informed that there has been some monsoon activity in the plains of Uttar Pradesh etc., today. I do not want to forecast as to whether this is a real revival. … (Interruptions) श्री धर्म राज सिंह पटेल ( फूलपुर ) : मंत्री जी, सूखे के बारे में बोलिये। श्री जसवंत सिंह : मैं सूखे की ही बात कर रहा हूं। मैं इसे पैरोकियल बनाना नहीं चाहता हूं। माननीया मार्ग्रेट आल्वा जी जब कहती हैं कि आप सूखे पर राजनीति कर रहे हैं तो मुझे बहुत दु:ख होता है। वे पुरानी मित्र हैं। यह तो संभव नही है कि हम जन्म न लें। मैं जिस प्रदेश से हूं, जहां मेरा जन्म हुआ, जहां मेरा घर है, जहां मैं बड़ा हुआ, जहां सब कुछ पाया, जहां मेरा ननिहाल है - उस प्रदेश में एक बूंद भी बरसात की न गिरे और मेरे से यह कहना कि राजस्थान में बरसात नहीं हुई। मैं जानता हूं और कहना चाहता हूं कि ऐसा सूखा ईश्वर किसी प्रदेश को न दिखाए।But I do wish to share with the hon. Members that we have abundant foodstuffs. I will come to it, when I come to drought management. Briefly, there is a Task Force established, and the Government, I say this with humility, is committed to ensuring that there is not and shall not be any scarcity of foodgrains in any part of the country in this period. श्री बसुदेव आचार्य : ६५ मलियन टन फूडग्रेन्स है। श्री जसवंत सिंह : मैं जानता हूं। I would be able to share that with you in a minute. That is why I said that the hon. Prime Minister has constituted a Task Force on drought management. It would be Chaired by the hon. Deputy Prime Minister and the tasks that have been given to this Task Force are, provision of greater employment opportunities, better nutrition, water conservation and water distribution, namely, provision for potable water, and creation of durable assets. राजस्थान में अकाल राहत कार्य का हमें जो अनुभव है, मैं वह बताना चाहूंगा। साधारणत: गड्ढा खोदें, धूल निकालें, धूल उठाएं और गड्ढा भर दें। क्या यह अकाल राहत कार्य है? यह अकाल राहत कार्य नहीं है। Sir, I wish to assure the hon. Members, particularly distinguished Shrimati Margaret Alva that resources for managing these testing circumstances will be made available through a judicious re-allocation and re-deployment of assets. It is not possible for me to give individual State allocation what they will be and also an assurance. Shri Pandian just told me that the State of Tamil Nadu would require a sum of Rs. 3,750 crore. The State of Maharashtra would require at least a sum of Rs. 1600 crore to manage drought. The State of Karnataka says that it would require a sum of Rs. 900 crore. But you would understand that it is not possible for the Union Government to manage resources on this basis. Sir, I am a Member of the Task Force. It is not as if we have remained inattentive to this matter. We would attend to it. Judiciously, the funds shall be re-allocated. After all, there are other Members also in the Task Force. The Minister of Agriculture, the Minister of Rural Development, the Minister of Civil Supplies and Minister of Finance are the members of the Task Force. We would attend to all these aspects. SHRI P.H. PANDIAN : Sir, the State of Tamil Nadu would require Rs. 750 crore to manage the drought conditions. But the State treasury was empty when the present Chief Minister came to power. SHRI JASWANT SINGH : I follow that. But we are not playing politics with drought at all. SHRI P.H. PANDIAN : Sir, Rs. 750 crore would be required for managing the drought situation and Rs. 3000 crore would be required to tide over the precarious economic condition as prevailing in the State after the completion of the elections. SHRI BASU DEB ACHARIA : Now you will get. SHRI JASWANT SINGH : There is a suggestion here that we are somehow playing politics with drought in the country. SHRI P.H. PANDIAN : Some Governments think that they would not come back to power again. MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: If you want to seek clarifications after his reply is over, then you can do so. SHRI JASWANT SINGH : Sir, I want to share another important aspect with the House. SHRI BASU DEB ACHARIA : There are severe drought conditions in the districts of Bankura and Purulia in the State of West Bengal. SHRI AJOY CHAKRABORTY ( BASIRHAT ): Sir, there is a flood havoc in North Bengal. SHRI JASWANT SINGH : Sir, I said it is not possible for me to go into the allocation of individual States. MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: Senior Members here are sitting and asking questions. SHRI JASWANT SINGH : Sir, I do assure the hon. Members that the Central Government will be entirely judicious. There is no politics in combating calamity or in the management of drought that afflicts certain parts of the country today. I do wish to also assure the hon. Members that we will not permit the existing infrastructure projects which are in hand, to suffer from want of resources. It is my assurance to the House. In fact, I wish to again say that whichever Ministry is dealing with the infrastructure projects, I wish to say it here now that we will switch from financial allocation system to physical completion system. If, for example, the project is to complete 1500 kilometres of roads, once the 1500 kilometres of road nears completion, and upon completion of say 1300 kilometres,. if the Ministry or concerned authority were to come to me and say: "Now, what do we do?", we will give them money for additional 200 kilometres. We will not let infrastructure projects suffer on this account. We will move from simply financial allocation method to physical completion of a project in this period. This, we will request the States also to observe. इसी संदर्भ में मैं माननीय सदस्यों को सूचित करना चाहूंगा कि सूखे से निपटने के लिये एक योजना बनी है जिसे सभा राज्यों के भेजने से पहले सूचित करेंगे। वह ‘अन्न अंत्योदय योजना ’ है। It will be separate and distinct from simply ‘Food for Work’. ‘ काम के बदले अनाज योजना’ के लिये ७०० करोड़ रुपया है। यह गांव के गरीब लोगों के लिये योजना होगी। राजस्थान में विशेषकर यह योजना‘अंत्योदय’के नाम से की जा चुकी है। गांवो के लिये अब यह ‘अन्न अंत्योदय योजना’ होगी। यह गरीब तबके के लिये होगी। इस योजना में गांव के लोगों की जिम्मेदारी होगी कि अन्न अंत्योदय योजना किस को जाय। इस में सरकार का दखल नहीं होगा। इसके बारे में डिटेल्ज में बता दिया जायेगा। विशेषकर सूखाग्रस्त गांवों के लिये योजना होगी। I also assure the hon. Members that despite these difficulties, we are resolved in the Government not to dilute our commitment to ensuring fiscal rectitude, responsible financial management, and continuing to manage development growth. We will, as there was some mention here, rein in fiscal deficit by curbing inessential and non-productive expenditure and further enhancing the current buoyancy of the tax revenues which remain high priority of the Government. SHRIMATI MARGARET ALVA : What about downsizing the Government? SHRI JASWANT SINGH : Downsizing the Government, I will just come to it. कृषि के बारे में कहा गया। यह बहुत ही महत्वपूर्ण विषय है। सरकार इसके लिये कटिबद्ध है। किसान क्रेडिट कार्ड स्कीम के बारे में चर्चा हो चुकी है। इसके अतरिक्त राष्ट्रीय कृषि बीमा योजना पिछले साल लांउंच की गई थी। SHRI PRIYA RANJAN DASMUNSI : One definite question was raised today. Will you kindly answer it? On the drought issue, you said that the Task Force will deal with it. We will find the outcome. The fact is that FCI is not buying paddy even in the drought-affected States. Even the Minimum Support Price is not available to the farmer for his stock. FCI is not there in the market. Will you work out some mechanism in consultation with the Food Ministry at least to ensure price to the grower who has stocks of paddy now? They cannot sell paddy. There is wheat in Bihar, wheat in Uttar Pradesh. It is a big problem now. श्री अरुण कुमार ( जहानाबाद ): उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, एक गंभीर बात यह है कि जो पैडी खरीदकर कोआपरेटिव द्वारा दी गई है, उसका पैसा नहीं दिया जा रहा है जिससे किसानों को पैसा नहीं मिल रहा है। यह गंभीर सवाल है। डिस्टि्रक्ट एडमनिस्टशन द्वारा निदेश दिया गया है कि इसको धन दे दें। एफ.सी.आई. पैसा मीट करेगा लेकिन किसानों को पैसा नहीं मिल पा रहा है। यह एफ.सी.आई. के नाम पर लिया गया पैसा है, वह पैसा नहीं मिल रहा है। श्री जसवंत सिंह : वैसे तो आज के विषय से हटकर है, फिर भी अगर किसी जिला विशेष का है तो अलग बात है परन्तु समूचा ध्यान दिया जायेगा। श्री अरुण कुमार : यह जहानाबाद में अरवल की बात है। मेरे ख्याल से बिहार के कई जिलों की यह स्थिति है। SHRI PRIYA RANJAN DASMUNSI : You can get the statistics as to how much has been purchased in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Orissa, and Chhattisgarh. Within a minute you can get that information. MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: Individual cases need not be responded to. SHRI PRIYA RANJAN DASMUNSI : It is not an individual case. It is a matter relating to States. … (Interruptions) श्री जसवंत सिंह : àÉéxÉä +ÉÉ{ÉBÉEä ÉÊVÉãÉä BÉEÉÒ iÉBÉEãÉÉÒ{ÉE ºÉÖxÉÉÒ cè, ªÉc ÉÊVÉààÉänÉ®ÉÒ càÉÉ®ÉÒ cè* … (Interruptions) Sir, it will be very difficult, if it goes on like this. Let me complete. … (Interruptions) You may please let me complete. … (Interruptions) MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: After he completes his reply, in case there is any necessity, you can put questions. … (Interruptions) SHRI JASWANT SINGH : So far as other aspects of encouraging agriculture are concerned, they are well enough known. I wish to go to other substantial areas. प्रभुनाथ सिंह जी, आपके लिए मैं सूचित कर दूं कि एक विशेष वन टाइम सैटलमैन्ट स्कीम छोटे और मार्जिनल काश्तकारों के लिए सरकार ने लागू की है, जिसमें रिजर्व बैंक को आदेश दिये गये हैं कि वह पचास हजार रुपये तक के जो लोन लिये गये हों, उन्हें कवर करे। छोटे काश्तकारों को इससे फिर से सुविधा मिलेगी। उनके द्वारा अगर पचास हजार तक के लोन लिये गये हों तो वे स्क्वायर अप हो जायेंगे तथा नये लोन लेने के लिए उनका इनटाइटलमैन्ट हो जायेगा। श्री धर्म राज सिंह पटेल : क्या लोन माफ हो जायेंगे। श्री जसवंत सिंह : लोन माफी शब्द मैं प्रयोग नहीं कर रहा हूं। रिजर्व बैंक उसे कवर करेगा और हमारा इरादा है…( व्यवधान) श्री धर्म राज सिंह पटेल : मंत्री जी, जो कमजोर किसान हैं, जिनका पचास हजार रुपये का लोन है, उनका ब्याज माफ करा दीजिए। श्री जसवंत सिंह : पचास हजार रुपये तक रिजर्व बैंक कवर कर रहा है, मैंने आपको कह दिया। सिद्धांतत: वित्त मंत्री के नाते मेरे लिये यह संभव नहीं है कि आप कहें कि एक तरफ हम नॉन पर्फोर्मिंग असैट्स के नाते एक ऑर्डीनेन्स लायें, फिर मैं ही आपसे कहूं कि हम ब्याज माफ कर दें। पचास हजार रुपये तक छोटे किसानों के लिए रिजर्व बैंक श्योरटी खड़ी होगी और यह होने के बाद यह ऋण प्राय: उनका समाप्त है और उसके बाद जब रिजर्व बैंक श्योरटी दे रहा है तो वे पुन: ऋण लेने के लिए अधिकृत हो जायेंगे। श्री प्रभुनाथ सिंह : उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, माननीय मंत्री जी ने अभी जो छोटे किसानों के लिए घोषणा की है, उसके लिए हम उन्हें बधाई देते हैं। लेकिन हम एक बात की तरफ उनका ध्यान आकृष्ट करना चाहते हैं और हमें लगता है कि वह हमारी बात को मान लेंगे। जब मैं बोल रहा था, उस समय मैंने सवाल उठाया था कि जो गांवों में रहने वाले लोग हैं, उनका जो भोजन पकता है वह मवेशियों के गोबर की चिपड़ी और जलावन से पकता है। उन्हें प्रोत्साहन देने के लिए सरकार की तरफ से अगर वह कोई कदम उठाना चाहते हैं तो वह बता दें, ताकि वह व्यवसाय गांवों में फले-फूले और उस व्यवसाय का लाभ आम मानव की जिंदगी पर भी पड़ेगा। चूंकि फर्टिलाइजर के द्वारा खेतों में जो अन्न पैदा होता है उससे तरह-तरह की बीमारियां होती हैं। जब लोगों में मवेशी पालने की प्रवृत्ति बढ़ेगी और उसकी खाद से जो अन्न पैदा होगा, उससे मानव जीवन में होने वाली बीमारियों से बच सकता है। इसलिए हम चाहेंगे कि उसके प्रोत्साहन के लिए यदि माननीय मंत्री जी कुछ करने का विचार रखते हैं तो कृपया सदन को बतायें। श्री जसवंत सिंह : माननीय सदस्य जो कह रहे हैं, वह मैं समझ गया। उनका कहना है कि फर्टिलाइजर में अपने आपमें एक प्रकार की कृत्रिमता है और उस कृत्रिमता के कई दुष्परिणाम हैं। अगर हम कृषि कार्यों के लिए जो गोबर और देशी खाद है, जैसे राजस्थान के पश्चिमी जिलों में भेड़ की खाद होती है। हम इसे प्रोत्साहन देने के पक्ष में हैं। हम चाहते हैं कि इसे प्रोत्साहन दें, यह लाभदायी और स्वास्थ्यप्रद भी है। परंतु योजना बनाना मेरे हाथ की बात नहीं है। हम इसे प्रोत्साहन देंगे, मैं आपको विश्वास दिलाता हूं। I expect and I wish to work for an agricultural credit limit, in the year 2002-2003, of Rs.75,000 crore. I wish to compare that amount of Rs.75,000 crore with the amount of Rs.31,956 crore, of 1997-98. If I am able to – as against the figures of Rs.31,000 crore or Rs.32,000 crore in 1997-98 – achieve a target of Rs.75,000 crore, it will be a satisfactory achievement. I wish to share a few thoughts and these are important to revenue collection and taxation. The goals that I have in taxation are: improving the tax-GDP ratio providing a certain stability in the tax structure focussing much more on tax administration and compliance; and reversing the direct and indirect tax ratio so that tax administration increasingly becomes more progressive.Direct taxes are progressive. Indirect taxes, because they hit the poor, are regressive. The country must move increasingly towards raising the contribution of direct taxes and lowering the ratio of indirect taxes, which is what I meant by reversing the taxes. The second thing which I am doing and I am committed to, I want to share it with the House, is computerisation. There are benefits of computerisation which I wish the Members to understand. Some hon. Members have asked as to what is the point in having the Permanent Account Number. Some karorpati may come, give a few rupees and get cleared by paying the taxes. That is not the intent. We are going to computerise the Permanent Account Number. I have set a target date of completion , that is by October this year we should have total computerisation and God willing, if I am able to achieve that computerisation then it should be possible for me to create a data bank and connect these Permanent Account Numbers. SHRI K.H. MUNIYAPPA ( KOLAR ): Sir, the entire nation is facing the drought situation. Farmers are not in a position to get even the drinking water. Could you waive their interests due to the cooperatives and also to the nationalised banks? Will you be able to get from the respective States the figures of the credit which they have taken and then waive the interest? This is a very important thing. SHRI JASWANT SINGH : I have just answered this question on waiver of interest. As the Finance Minister of the country, it is not possible for me to agree to this proposal. I was talking about computerisation. It will be completed by October this year. We expect the assessed taxpayers to pay taxes on time. I believe exactly the same principle must apply to the tax collecting agencies when it comes to refund and they must with similar stringency pay the refund due to the assessees. This is an area which needs improvement and we are committed to achieving it. I have just spoken about the Permanent Account Number. We have speeded it up. In the first quarter of this year about 400,000 Permanent Account Numbers have been allotted. Up to 30th June, 2002 which is the last date for which I have the figures, almost 24 lakh applications have been received and about 97 per cent of them have received the Permanent Account Number. I share with the hon. Members that it is because of long snaking queues wanting this Permanent Account Number that we have extended the date till the 9th August. SHRI MOINUL HASSAN ( MURSHIDABAD ): For more than two years many people are waiting to get their PAN numbers. SHRI JASWANT SINGH : Therefore, it is a much more satisfactory progress this year and I do hope that we are committed to achieving this very quickly. I also wish to say that the current taxation law provides for four appellate levels before a tax assessment is finalised; commissioner, tribunal, High Courts and Supreme Court and there is the lateral provision of Settlement Commissions. It is cumbersome, time-consuming and it is a part of the multiple litigation and results in delay in realisation of revenue along with causing hardships to the assessees. This has to improve. We need to reduce the levels of appeal, simplify the procedure, and have an in-built and time-bound mechanism for disposal. We will do this by March 2003 and we will reduce, at least, one level of appeal before that period. Similarly, the Income Tax Act is so complicated that leave alone an ordinary taxpayer, other than tax lawyers, few can understand it including the present speaker and complying with the provisions of it is altogether a different matter. There are too many exemptions. A variety of complex deductions leading to endless complicating interpretations and harassment of taxpayers. The Income Tax Act must be direct, comprehensive and yet simple. SHRI MOINUL HASSAN : Sir, we, the Members of Parliament, have to submit income tax returns. Our salary is Rs.12,000 per month. But it is not treated as salary by the Income Tax Department. So, we are not getting the benefit of Standard Deduction. It is treated as income from other sources. But Lok Sabha Secretariat gives us a certificate which says that it is a salary. So, why is it happening like this? SHRI JASWANT SINGH : I must share with the hon. Member that there is an unstated convention of the House about conflict of interest. If the Members of Parliament are interested personally in any issue or any business or any industry – if they run an industry – then, when that matter comes up for discussion, it is expected that the hon. Member of Parliament shall withdraw from that discussion. I do believe that when it comes to personal income tax matter, whatever may be the personal difficulties of Members of Parliament, the Parliament – whether it is this House or that House – with all due respect to you, is not the correct forum for Members of Parliament to raise their taxation problems. You could write to me. But we are tending to forget the convention of conflict of interest. I have often noticed – I do not wish to take names – that Members of Parliament, who are prominent industrialists, in fact, raise queries and lobby for their own industry. It is astonishing. But I would not get deviated by that. We really need to just jog our own memory about conventions that we have made for ourselves. श्री शंकर प्रसाद जायसवाल ( वाराणसी ): माननीय उपाध्यक्ष जी, मैं केवल एक छोटी सी बात पूछना चाहता हूं। पिछले बजट सत्र में सीनियर सिटीजन…( व्यवधान) श्री जसवन्त सिंह : मैं उसी बात पर आ रहा हूं। पहले मेरी बात सुन लें। SHRI PRIYA RANJAN DASMUNSI : Sir, the hon. Finance Minister has just now mentioned something for maintaining the decorum of the House. He has also mentioned that some Members of Parliament purposely lobby to protect certain fraudulent industrial houses or industries as such. I can say on my behalf that you should not hesitate to disclose their names to the nation and Parliament. There is nothing wrong in it. We will support it. Whatever party they may belong to, we want to cleanse the process. SHRI JASWANT SINGH : Sir, the Income Tax Act should be direct, comprehensive yet simple and the Act, as far as possible, should be free from exemptions so that compliance and administration of it becomes so much easier. I, therefore, propose to set up a Task Force which would recommend Members for simplification. This Task Force shall submit its Report within 90 days of being established and I hope to incorporate accepted recommendations at the earliest but not later than the next five years. I accept that small investors need relief. It is only a part of it. Section 80L of the Income Tax Act provides for a deduction of Rs.9000 from income derived from specified investments plus an additional deduction of Rs.3000 being allowed on interest on Government securities. This Rs.9000 plus Rs.3000 will now be raised to Rs.12,000 plus Rs. 3000. In other words, the total deduction is raised from Rs.12,000 to Rs.15,000. Dividend income from shares of Indian companies and income from mutual funds have been made taxable in the hands of the unit share holders by the Finance Act of 2002. For small investors investing in equity, a threshold limit of Rs.1000 was provided for the purpose of TDS for senior citizens. For investors, the threshold has been raised to Rs.2500 and no tax shall be deducted in respect of dividends upto Rs.2500 received from each company on mutual fund. With computerisation of the Income Tax Department, the data on tax deducted at source will be synchronised with tax returned by the assessees for better tax administration and compliance. I am unable to be convinced about the rationale for service tax on life insurance premium. My predecessor had informed the House that this levy would be restricted to the risk element in premium. To simplify and to provide relief, I intend to totally exempt this item of levy on premium. In the Budget speech for 2002-03, my predecessor had announced that customs duty rates would be further rationalised so as to achieve a structure with just two basic rates at 10 and 20 per cent by the year 2004-05. There is far too much secrecy about it. There is completely unnecessary secrecy. Therefore, I wish to have an open discussion with industry and trade in this regard and will be doing so in the coming months. Further, export subsidies need to be directed in the form of focussed manner so as to prevent misuse. I am receiving far too many complaints about export subsidies being directed not for promotion of exports but for other purposes. I intend to address that issue in consultation with my distinguished colleague, the Minister for Commerce. As for direct taxes, so also with indirect taxes, the Government is committed greatly to simplifying the tax procedures also. Tax administration is a service. It used to be provided efficiently to the tax payers to encourage voluntary compliance. Therefore, a Task Force comprising of experts would be constituted hereto on different aspects of indirect tax laws in administration with the same time stipulation of 90 days. I intend to set up another Task Force on reduction of paper work. This Task Force is to recommend reduction of paper work in tax administration with a view to reducing and simplifying the avalanche of paper that the tax payers encounter. I expect that this Task Force will give their recommendations within 45 days and we will, thereafter, implement them. The finances of the State are under severe strain. The Empowered Committee of the State Finance Ministers have requested me to give serious consideration to this issue. I am not finding fault. But this is factually correct. The situation has arisen principally on account of phenomenal increase on the salary account, combined with the increase in the debt service obligation of the States. The salary bills have gone up principally on account of the last Pay Commission. We need not go into the history of that Pay Commission and what it has done to the finances of the State and of the country. That is given. I am adult enough to recognise that I have to live in the world as it is and not in the world as it ought to be. Therefore, if the world is as it is, then that is given. We have to collectively address ourselves to what is given and not what it should be. I am honoured, therefore, when State Finance Ministers and my distinguished and learned friend, Shri Ashim Dasgupta, Finance Minister of West Bengal earlier suggested that I, as a Finance Minister, Chair the Committee, comprising of State Finance Ministers, to jointly and collectively arrive at answers for State finances. I have agreed with some trepidation. We intend to play no politics in this. It originally was scheduled to meet on 2nd August. We are now putting it off by just another week. I have no doubt that with the combined efforts of the Centre and the States, we will endeavour to bring some stability to State finance. The Unit Trust of India merited and invited a lot of comments from a lot of hon. Members. Protection of investors’ interest and maintaining the integrity of the market are absolutely vital for revival of our capital market. The Unit Trust of India has an iconic status and it has played a pioneering role in the development of Mutual Fund industry in the country. It has served millions of small investors extremely well in the past. Unfortunately, on account of certain shortcomings, it has been passing through a difficult phase. I would like to assure the House that all measures to protect the interests of investors shall be taken by the Government. The Unit Trust of India shall be nursed back to health so that it can serve the investor community in a sustainable and viable manner. The Government will stand behind the Unit Trust of India in providing a minimum redemption price to US-64 holders despite the present erosion in its Net Asset Value. A sum of Rs. 300 crore was provided to the Unit Trust of India last year to meet the shortfall under US-64. A sum of Rs. 700 crore is proposed to be provided through this Supplementary Demand for meeting likely shortfall against the assured redemption price under US-64. Further, in order to enable Unit Trust of India to honour its commitment to investors in the MIP Scheme, the Government have extended a guarantee to Unit Trust for Rs. 1,000 crore to enable to get the fund. SHRI PRIYA RANJAN DASMUNSI : I appreciate the Minister for the support that he is extending from the Government to the UTI. According to him, it is a shortcoming. But according to us, it is a scam. I would only like to ask the Minister whether he will assure the House that after the findings of JPC which would be tabled, appropriate administrative action will be taken on the recommendations of the Report. That is the only request that I want to make. We are giving money from Parliament which is people’s money. He should also assure us that appropriate steps will be taken after the Report is tabled. SHRI JASWANT SINGH : Let me finish. … (Interruptions) I am not very good at arithmetic. I have a horde of officers to help me with the fund required. We will find the fund. I assure you about that. We have extended a guarantee of Rs. 1000 crore to enable it to raise funds to meet the liquidity requirements. I am committed to long-term solution to the ailments presently afflicting the Unit Trust. We will find the correct remedy. In addition to this, so far as the JPC Report is concerned, I would submit that even before the JPC Report is presented, the hon. Prime Minister has already announced the establishment of a Group of Ministers which comprises the Finance Minister, the Deputy-Chairman of the Planning Commission and the Disinvestment Minister to address themselves to the problems of Unit Trust and the IFCI and to suggest fool-proof measures.… (Interruptions) So far as the JPC Report is concerned, let the JPC Report be presented. I see no reason why the hon. Members should think that the JPC Report or its recommendations shall not be acted upon. I want to speak about the Relief Bonds. The ceiling of Rs.2 lakh per annum on the purchase of Relief Bonds has been reviewed by the Ministry in consultation with the Reserve Bank of India. I am glad to inform and announce that in addition to the existing Relief Bond Scheme, the Government shall shortly offer a new scheme enabling the citizens to invest their savings in a tax-free bond with a considerably enhanced monitory ceiling. The ceiling will not be limited to Rs.2 lakh as it is here. These bonds will carry an annual interest of 7 per cent, have a maturity of six years and they will be tax-free. The other details shall be announced shortly after consultation with the Reserve Bank of India. I have no doubt that this would satisfy some of the needs of the investing community. About SEBI, Government shall strengthen the SEBI so that it can take effective action against the erring market intermediaries and companies so as to improve the integrity of the market as also to develop it. Further, market risk management becomes far more efficacious at shorter settlement cycle. There is need, therefore, to move to T +1 rolling system from the existing T+3 by tuning up the funds and securities processing cycle. SEBI is being advised to take necessary action in this regard in consultation with the RBI. I have also the distinction and honour of handling the Company Affairs and I felt the need in Company Affairs of establishing an organisation that can deal with this issue. This is the organisation that I call the Serious Frauds Office. In the recent past, the country has experienced certain unhealthy practices whereby, for example, the small investors have lost their life’s savings. This is the phenomenon which the hon. Members have earlier called as vanishing companies. Hon. Members are also aware that misleading accounting practices adopted by a number of companies abroad have led to major bankruptcy. The Government is committed to protecting the small investors and bringing to justice the perpetrators of such frauds. I, therefore, propose to set up a Serious Frauds Office in the Department of Company Affairs to investigate professionally and comprehensively the frauds that occur or are likely to occur and do so with despatch and efficiency. Simultaneously, we are considering a host of other measures to ensure transparency and full disclosure in corporate accounts as also to strengthen statutory audit provisions. SHRI KIRIT SOMAIYA : Mr. Deputy-Speaker, Sir, I am raising this particular issue for the last four years. The Securities and Exchange Board of India and the Department of Company Affairs define a ‘vanishing company’ as a company which is not available to the Government. They take into account only those companies, but they do not take into account those companies which are not available to small investors. So, I would urge upon the hon. Finance Minister that the definition of ‘vanishing companies’ should be expanded to those companies which do not respond to small investors or to those companies which are not available or not traceable or which have siphoned off money. In Bombay Stock Exchange, the number of this category of companies is 997. Therefore, I would urge upon the Minister to expand the scope of the definition. SHRI JASWANT SINGH : We are only making a new beginning. I do not say that the new beginning is complete in itself, but it is a new beginning and I do hope the hon. Member will welcome such a beginning of establishing a Serious Frauds Office. Otherwise, the investigation is spread over various agencies. Some cases go to the Central Bureau of Investigation, some go to SEBI, some go to the Department of Company Affairs and so, it becomes a complicated affair. SHRI RUPCHAND PAL : Mr. Deputy-Speaker, Sir, there is no dearth of laws in this country, but still things are going on like this. SHRI JASWANT SINGH : Sir, I can only try and improve things. If my friend feels that it is not good enough, we will benefit by his great experience and he can advise us in this regard. SHRI BASU DEB ACHARIA : Mr. Deputy-Speaker, Sir, the investors should get back their money. Some provision should also be made in this regard. SHRI JASWANT SINGH : Sir, the hon. Members are free to make such recommendations. As far as the issue of Indian Depository Receipts is concerned, companies and corporates outside India can offer to Indian investors an attractive opportunity for investment in major overseas corporates as well as in NRI ventures abroad. I propose soon to issue rules for operationalising the concept of Indian Depository Receipts. The Companies Act was enacted in 1956 and though it has been amended from time to time, it has not kept pace with the fast changing corporate realities. We will persist with the process of liberalisation in the Act, but on a parallel basis, the regulatory powers within the Act need to be strengthened to enable effective action in instances where corporate wrongdoings come to light. Sir, I have taken a great deal of the hon. Members’ time. I do believe that the path of opening up the economy, decentralising and liberalising is irreversible, but I also believe simultaneously that more liberal the regime the stronger there is the need for effective regulatory mechanism. I am quite clear in my mind that ‘free market’ – and I have said this earlier – is not an euphemism for a ‘free for all’. We wish to have an effective and productive liberal regime as indeed we must have. Then, simultaneously we have to have a very effective and answerable regulatory mechanism. That is what I intend to do; that is what I am committed to. श्री शंकर प्रसाद जायसवाल : मैं वित्त मंत्री जी से सीनियर सिटीजन्स के ब्याज के सम्बन्ध में जानना चाहता हूं। पहले वित्त मंत्री जी ने इसी सदन में आश्वासन दिया था कि सीनियर सिटीजन का ब्याज दर कुछ आधिक किया जाएगा ।…( व्यवधान) लेकिन यह ब्याज दिनों-दिन कम होता जा रहा है। एक प्रतिशत अधिक ब्याज देने का आश्वासन दिया गया था। इस बारे में बैंकों को निर्देश दिया गया था।…( व्यवधान) लेकिन बैंक सीनियर सिटीजन्स के ब्याज में भी कटौती कर रहे हैं और कोई .२५ प्रतिशत तो कोई .५ प्रतिशत की कटौती कर रहा है। 19.00 hrs. 

मैं वित्त मंत्री जी से सदन में आश्वासन चाहता हूं कि सीनियर सिटीजन और कर्मचारियों की भविष्यनधि के ऊपर जो ब्याज रेट कम होता चला जा रहा है, उसको ध्यान में रखते हुए, बाकी ब्याज रेट की तुलना में एक प्रतिशत ब्याज रेट की बढ़ोतरी सीनियर सिटीजन के लिए निश्चित रूप से होनी चाहिए। मैं इस पर माननीय मंत्री जी का आश्वासन चाहता हूं। SHRI K.P. SINGH DEO ( DHENKANAL ): Mr. Deputy-Speaker, Sir, for half a minute, I crave the indulgence of the hon. Minister of Finance. This is the year of the Commonwealth Games and the Asian Games. Our sports persons are winning medals. But this year’s Budget has taken away the exemption meant for water sports, that is, rowing, canoeing, yachting and kayaking which were category-I sports. The Services Sports Control Board does not have the benefit of the Customs’ exemption order for importing equipment. The Services’ contribution to the Indian Sports Contingent and the medal winners is substantial. I do not want an answer now. I am just submitting to him. I have also written to him and also the Minister of Sports. Could he kindly help the Services Sports Control Board and the Water Sports who have been winning medals. SHRI RUPCHAND PAL : Sir, I had raised an issue related to savings. The National Savings Organisation is being dismantled. The provision is there for all these things. But what has happened during the last seven or eight months is this. Who would print the stationery items, like the Kisan Vikas Patras, the National Savings Certificates, the agents’ receipt book. These are not available in many parts of the country. As a result of that, the small savings are suffering immensely. I want an assurance. What steps does the Government propose? The Postal Department disowns it. The NSO is being dismantled. No stationery, no certificates and no receipt books are available in many parts of the country. So, the small savings, which benefit the States, are at a disadvantage.… (Interruptions) SHRI ANIL BASU ( ARAMBAGH ): This should be addressed. श्री विष्णु पद राय (अंडमान और निकोबार द्वीप समूह) :मैं वित्त मंत्री जी से एक आश्वासन चाहता हूं कि सारे भारत में पैडी प्रोक्योरमेंट के लिए मनिमम सपोर्ट प्राइस फिक्स किया गया है। अंडमान और निकोबार द्वीप में जहां हर साल कम से कम बारिश ३००० एम.एम. होती है। वहां छोटे किसान हैं और उनके लिए इरीगेशन सुविधाएं बिल्कुल नहीं है। सरकार किसान की पैदावार धान खरीदती नहीं है। परिणामस्वरूप सरकार की काफी अच्छी स्कीम्स शुरू हुई है, जैसे अन्त्योदय स्कीम, अन्नपूर्णा स्कीम, बीपीएल का राइस और व्हीट का कोटा बढ़ने के कारण से जो छोटा किसान है, उसकी पैडी का प्रोक्योरमेंट नहीं होता है। मैं माननीय वित्त मंत्री जी से आश्वासन चाहता हूं कि कम से कम छोटे किसान जो द्वीप में रहते हैं, उनका धान मनिमम सपोर्ट प्राइस में खरीदने की सरकार व्यवस्था करे। श्री लक्ष्मण सिंह : मैं माननीय मंत्री जी से निवेदन करना चाहता हूं कि जो किसान को क्रैडिट कार्ड आप देते हैं और जो बैंक किसान से ब्याज लेते हैं, वह १४ प्रतिशत किसान क्रैडिट कार्ड पर ब्याज लगता है। ‘ नाबार्ड’जो बैंकों को ९ प्रतिशत पर देता है, ९ का १४ प्रतिशत तो अगर यह ब्याज की सीमा किसान क्रैडिट कार्ड पर कुछ कम हो जाए क्योंकि अभी सूखे का समय है, बाढ़ भी आ रही है तो बहुत बड़ी राहत आप किसान को देंगे। श्री हरीभाऊ शंकर महाले : आर.बी.आई. ने आस्ट्रेलिया कंपनी से प्रभावित होकर प्लास्टिक प्रोडक्ट्स की अपनी देश की नोट छापी थी और देश के बाहर आस्ट्रेलिया भेजी थी। इस बारे में सरकार को क्या मालूम है और हम जानना चाहते हैं कि क्या इसकी अनुमति दी गई है? श्री जसवंत सिंह : मैं प्रयत्न करुंगा कि सभी माननीय सदस्यों के प्रश्नों का उत्तर दूं। आप सीनियर सिटीजन और कर्मचारियों के बारे में आश्वासन चाहते हैं, ऐसा आश्वासन में नहीं दे सकता हूं। आप अंडमान द्वीप में पैडी के बारे में आश्वासन चाहते हैं, मैं आपको आश्वस्त करता हूं कि कृषि मंत्रालय इस मामले को डील करता है, आपको उससे बात करनी चाहिए थी लेकिन आपने नहीं की, आपका अधिकार है, लेकिन मैं इस बात को कृषि मंत्रालय तक पहुंचा दूंगा। श्री शंकर प्रसाद जायसवाल : पूर्व वित्त मंत्री जी ने इस सदन में कहा था कि सीनियर सिटीजन को ब्याज रेट एक प्रतिशत तक बढ़ाया जाएगा। बैंक एक परसेंट न बढ़ाकर आधा परसेंट, चौथाई परसेंट दे रहे हैं। कोई-कोई बैंक एक परसेंट भी दे रहा है। मेरा वित्त मंत्री जी से अनुरोध है कि वे सीनियर सिटीजन को ब्याज रेट एक परसेंट बढ़ाकर देने का आश्वासन दें। श्री प्रियरंजन दासमुंशी : पूर्व वित्त मंत्री जी ने कोई आश्वासन नहीं दिया था। मैंने पढ़ा है, ऐसा कोई आश्वासन उन्होंने नहीं दिया है। श्री शंकर प्रसाद जायसवाल : आप अपने ज्ञान को बढ़ा लें। सीनियर सिटीजन को आज भी उसी आश्वासन के आधार पर २५ पैसे से लेकर ५० पैसे, ७५ पैसे तथा एक-आध बैंक एक परसेंट भी ब्याज दे रहा है। इस सदन में जो बात कही गयी थी कि एक परसेंट तक बढ़ाया जाएगा, तो मैं आश्वासन चाहता हूं कि वह एक परसेंट बढ़ाया जाए। श्री जसवंत सिंह : मैं माननीय सदस्य का आभारी हूं, उन्होंने ज्ञान बढ़ाने की बात कही है। कोई अपना ज्ञान बढ़ाये या न बढ़ाए मैं अपने ज्ञान में अवश्य वृद्धि करुंगा। इस प्रकार का आश्वासन अगर मेरे पूर्व मंत्री जी ने दिया है तो निश्चित रूप से हम उसको क्रियान्वित करेंगे, लेकिन अगर आश्वासन नहीं दिया है तो मैं क्षमा चाहता हूं हम इसे नहीं कर पाएंगे।I will examine it. माननीय महाले जी ने आस्ट्रेलिया से प्लास्टिक के कागज के बारे में जो बात कही है, हम उस पर उचित कार्रवाई करेंगे। एक माननीय सदस्य ने किसान क्रैडिट कार्ड के बारे में कहा। अगर ब्याज की दरों में अंतर है तो यह संतोषजनक बात नहीं है। बैंक कहता है कि सर्विस में काफी खर्चा होता है तो उन्हें सर्विस का खर्चा कम करना चाहिए। सभी जानते हैं कि सूखे का साल है। बैंक जो काश्तकार को ऋण देते हैं तो हम आग्रह करते हैं कि वे ऋण चुकता करें। लेकिन यह जो सर्विस एलीमेंट बैंक का है यह उसे कम करना चाहिए। Hon. Shri Rupchand Pal talked about some deficiency in printing. This is unacceptable that there should be any deficiency or shortcoming in regard to essential forms that the citizens are required to have. SHRI RUPCHAND PAL : There is no printing for quite a long time. SHRI JASWANT SINGH : I do not know why there is no printing. But I accept what he is saying and I find it unacceptable that the citizens should not have access to the forms that are required to be filled under law. What an absurdity? We, all of us collectively here, make the laws and we require the citizens to fill forms and then we do not provide them with those forms… (Interruptions) I accept all this. How can you have a situation in which the essential paper work that a citizen is required to do is unable to do simply because there is some confusion in the bureaucratic management of simply form printing. This is unacceptable. I will address myself to this issue. SHRIMATI MARGARET ALVA : I have one final question. Sir, the day you took over as the Finance Minister, you have said: "I will see that the housewives in the country have more money in the kitty to spend." In all your assurances, there is not one hope that you will help the women to get more money in their pockets. I want to know what is your answer to that. … (Interruptions) श्री शंकर प्रसाद जायसवाल : मेरा कहना है कि असमानता को दूर किया जाए। ( व्यवधान) उपाध्यक्ष महोदय: आप सीनियर मैम्बर है। आपको सब बात मालूम होनी चाहिए। श्री जसवन्त सिंह : मैं मानता हूं कि समानता होनी चाहिए। MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: There is one more clarification from the lady Member. DR. V. SAROJA ( RASIPURAM ): Sir, the Cancer Institute, Adyar, Chennai has requested and written to the Finance Minister for the exemption of the customs duty on the consumables for diagnostic kits imported. Will the Minister consider this in the larger interest of the patients? SHRI JASWANT SINGH : I will consider it certainly. What I will do after consideration, I cannot say just now. After all that I have said, for my hon. Friend, Shrimati Margaret Alva to say that I have not done nothing for the housewives is really ungracious. If you go through all the statements that have been made and the concessions that have been given, and the deductions on service tax, on 80L, which directly or indirectly influence and benefit the housewives. You have said about the poorer section of the people. For example, I talked about Anna Antyodaya Yojana. What is Anna Antyodaya Yojana? It is in one form or another money in the kitty of the poorest housewife, in the poorest household of the smallest village in the country. MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: I hope, your reply is over now. SHRI JASWANT SINGH : My reply is over now but there should not be any more questions. श्री भेरूलाल मीणा ( सलूम्बर ): उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, मंत्री महोदय ने आश्वासन दिया है कि सूखा पीड़ित क्षेत्रों में जल्दी से जल्दी अनाज पहुंचा दिया जाएगा। मंत्री जी राजस्थान के हैं इसलिए राजस्थान के साथ भेदभाव नहीं करेंगे। वह जानते हैं कि राजस्थान में सूखा इतना जबर्दस्त है कि केन्द्र सरकार को जल्दी से जल्दी उसकी सहायता करनी चाहिए। मेरा अनुभव है कि केन्द्र सरकार का यह जवाब होगा कि केन्द्र सरकार कहती रही लेकिन राज्य सरकार ने मांग नहीं की। ऐसी बात कहते समय निकल जाएगा। वहां जो धन भेजना है, जल्दी भेजा जाए। आपका इसमें जितनी जल्दी सहयोग मिलेगा, उतना अच्छा होगा। श्री जसवन्त सिंह : तीन हफ्ते पहले ही उन्हें सहयोग मिलना शुरु हो गया था। हमारी तरफ से मांगने का कोई इंतजार नहीं होता है कि वह जब मांगेंगे तब देंगे। सरकारी कामकाज का एक तरीका होता है। हम उसे तेज करेंगे और कुछ कर भी रहे हैं। आप यह मान कर चलें कि किसी राज्य के साथ कोई भेदभाव नहीं होगा। SHRI K.P. SINGH DEO : What about those without housewife? … (Interruptions) SHRI JASWANT SINGH : I must answer, not about those without housewife, but about the benefits to the Services Selection Board and about the withdrawal of benefits to the water sports. I do not have to wait. I will respond straightaway. Firstly, the daily allowance that should be given to athletes or participants in games abroad, particularly Commonwealth was 35 dollars a day. For some strange reason, it was reduced to 20 dollars a day. I received a representation from the Minister of Sports who led the contingent. We immediately, over a weekend, raised it back to 35 dollars so that our athletes there need not suffer. Secondly, the Services Selection Board will have the same status and facility. If you were to write to me, I will confirm this in writing. SHRI K.P. SINGH DEO : I have already written to you. SHRI JASWANT SINGH : We will include water sports. There is a very peculiar tendency that unless you excel in a sport, you cannot get facilities for it. I wish to go away from this. Unless you have facility, how can you even begin to accept? So the theory that we seem to be pursuing is this. How is the citizen to excel unless he or she has the facility? So, the first requirement is the provision of facilities. Only thereafter, you can say whatever else is to be said. I assure you that I have a very different approach to this. SHRI PRIYA RANJAN DASMUNSI : I congratulate you on behalf of my Federation. SHRI K.P. SINGH DEO : Also congratulation from Rowing Federation. MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: I shall now put the Demand for Excess Grants (General) for 1999-2000 to the vote of the House. The question is : The motion was adopted. MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: I shall now put the Supplementary Demands for Grants (General) for 2002-2003 to the vote of the House. The question is : The motion was adopted. ---------