1. Petitioner, an accused in case bearing FIR No.512 dated

14.11.2024 registered against him at Police Station Zirakpur, District SAS

Nagar (Mohali), for the commission of offences punishable u/s 406 , 420 , 120-B IPC, has prayed for grant of pre-arrest bail. 2. Relevant facts as emerging from the documents on record be

noticed hereinbelow:- Complainant alleged that co-accused Kanwar Varinder Singh
 Randhawa contact him and offered him a deal that he was
 running MLM Company namely Rich Hands Pvt. Ltd., for
 which he needed investment as also that in due course of time
 with increasing number of members, the commission would be
 increased. Thus, as per complainant co-accused Kanwar
 Varinder Singh Randhawa lured him to invest money in a deal
 as also to make efforts to increase the number of members who
 could invest money. The company runs by the accused used to
 invest money in producing films and the general perception
 given was that they were earning huge profits. Complainant
 was assured that money invested would be doubled in just 10
 months and that very soon they would be releasing a movie in
 which they would earn good profits. Somehow, complainant got
 taken in, in these false assurances. He not only invested money
 but also that of his relatives. Details of the money invested by
 him and his family members were also pointed out by
 complainant, who alleges that in all Rs.13.5 lakhs were
 invested. It was after few days that complainant met co-accused
 Deepak Malik, who was actively involved in the affairs of the
 company. Both the directors of the newly formed company
 namely Rajesh Kamboj (present petitioner) and Kanwar
 Varinder Singh Randhawa registered their production office in
 Mumbai and started sharing all the details with the members.
 They announced that they would be entering the Bollywood
 soon. To further win the confidence of investors, all the accused
 persons decided to provide a free trip to the members/investors
 to Thailand. Through his good offices, complainant alleges to
 have contacted staff of Spice Jet airline and booked ticket for
 44 people. On the asking of Kanwar Varinder Singh Randhawa
 and other accused, complainant decided to invest Rs.5 lakhs
 more and handed over the amount to co-accused Deepak Malik.
 In fact, present petitioner and co-accused Kanwar Varinder

 2 of 7 ::: Downloaded on - 16-02-2026 20:56:44 ::: CRM-M-60702-2025 3 Singh Randhawa started distributing cars as incentives to
 investors and in this manner got a huge flow of amount.
 However, abruptly they stopped paying commissions. It later
 came to be known that the accused had purchased 'Bitcoin'
 (Crypto Currency) and refused to pay the commission. Co-
 accused Kanwar Varinder Singh Randhawa absconded with all
 the money and till date has not been arrested. In December,
 2023 he (C) noticed aforesaid Kanwar Varinder Singh
 Randhawa and enquiries at his own level revealed that he had
 opened a new Real Estate Office quite near to his (C)
 residential place. To recover the financial loss complainant had
 to sold his wife's gold jewellery. In all, complainant had been
 duped of Rs. 18 lakhs. On receipt of complaint, the matter was enquired into by the

local police officials and on finding substance in the allegations leveled by

the complainant, the present FIR No.512 dated 14.11.2024 u/s 406 , 420 , 120-B IPC, was registered against present petitioners and others 3. Apprehending his arrest, petitioner moved an application for

grant of anticipatory bail before the learned Additional Sessions Judge, SAS

Nagar. The same was dismissed vide order dated 27.10.2025. Aggrieved of

which, the present petition has been filed. 4. Learned counsel for the petitioner contends that petitioner, who

was not named in the FIR, has been falsely implicated in the present case.

No specific role/allegations have been leveled against him. All the

allegations pertain to the other co-accused. Continuing further, learned

counsel contends that petitioner was one of the directors of the company,

who never assured complainant or enticed him to invest money. Further a

bare perusal of the FIR reveals that on every investment complainant was

earning commission but later due to some practical difficulties, the business,

could not run smoothly and thus the company suffered huge losses,

 3 of 7 ::: Downloaded on - 16-02-2026 20:56:44 ::: CRM-M-60702-2025 4 consequent thereto, complainant stopped earning commission. The very fact

that the complaint was lodged after delay of many years is indicative of the

falsity of the case and also suggests that coloured version has been put forth.

Further as per learned counsel, since nothing is to be recovered from

petitioner, his custodial interrogation is not needed. Nonetheless, being a

law-abiding citizen, he (P) is willing to join the investigation as and when

called for by the IO. Primarily on these grounds, it was prayed that

concession of pre-arrest bail be granted to the petitioner. 5. Per contra, while opposing the request for grant of anticipatory

bail, learned State counsel contends that the delay in lodging the complaint

occurred on account of evasive conduct of the petitioner and his associates,

who with a premeditated mind played a calculated fraud not only on

complainant but on the other unsuspecting investors, who also lost their hard

earned money. Not only did the complainant invest his money but on the

false assurances given by all the accused, he encouraged his family

members, relatives etc. also to invest their money. In all, complainant was

duped of Rs.18 lakhs. It has also been pointed out that even the past

antecedents of the petitioner are questionable as he is involved in another

case of like nature (FIR No.231 dated 27.09.2018 u/s 406 , 420-120-B IPC ).

In the light of seriousness and gravity of the allegations levelled by

complainant against petitioner and other accused, who all gave false

assurances of investing money on the pretext of good return and later duped

him (C) of his hard-earned money, learned State counsel submits that no

case for grant of this exceptional remedy of pre-arrest bail is made out.

Dismissal of the petition has been prayed for. 6. I have heard the learned counsel for the parties and gone

through the documents on record. 7. Before expressing any opinion on the merits of the rival

 4 of 7 ::: Downloaded on - 16-02-2026 20:56:44 ::: CRM-M-60702-2025 5 contentions raised by learned counsel for the petitioner, learned counsel for

the complainant and learned State counsel, it would be appropriate to refer to

certain relevant judgments of Hon'ble Supreme Court, wherein the factors to

be kept in mind while dealing with an application for grant of anticipatory

bail, have been discussed. Hon'ble the Supreme Court in " P. Chidambaram vs.

Directorate of Enforcement , ((2020) 13 SCC 791), has observed as under:- Hon'ble the Supreme Court while deciding the case titled as

" Ms. X Vs. The State of Maharashtra and another ", (2023 SCC Online

SC 279) held as under:- 5 of 7 ::: Downloaded on - 16-02-2026 20:56:44 ::: CRM-M-60702-2025 6 taken by the accused and to keep all aspects of the matter open till the trial
 is concluded. 12. In Prasanta Kumar Sarkar's case (supra) ( Prasanta Kumar
 Sarkar Vs. Ashish Chatterjee and another ), a Division Bench of this
 Court had highlighted the factors that ought to be borne in mind while
 considering the anticipatory bail application and had stated that :- In Nikita Jagganath Shetty @ Nikita Vishwajeet Jadhav vs.

The State of Maharashtra and another , 2025 AIR SC 3375, the Hon'ble

Supreme Court held that "Anticipatory bail is an exceptional remedy and

ought not to be granted in a routine manner." 8. Factual aspects leading to the lodging of the FIR have already

been noted in para 2 of the order. Agreeing with the submissions advanced

by learned State counsel, this Court is of the opinion that the presence of the

petitioner is needed for custodial interrogation to throw light upon the

intricacies involved in the case as also to find out the whereabouts of other

co-accused, who have not been arrested till date, what is the Modus

Operandi etc. of all accused, how many innocent persons have been duped

 6 of 7 ::: Downloaded on - 16-02-2026 20:56:44 ::: CRM-M-60702-2025 7 of their hard-earned money, to recover the money of complainant, thus, he

(P) has failed to make out a case of exceptional depravity/hardship in his

favour, entitling him for the grant of this extra ordinary relief of pre-arrest

bail. 9. The petition being devoid of merit, is hereby dismissed.