Date : 04.08.2025

 Heard Mr. S. Sahu, learned counsel for the petitioner. Also heard Ms. N. Das, learned
Additional Public Prosecutor appearing for the State. 2. This is an application filed under Section 482 of the BNSS, 2023, praying for grant of
pre-arrest bail to the accused/petitioner, Mr. Sofiur Rahman, who is apprehending arrest in
 Page No.# 2/2

connection with Tinsukia P.S. Case No. 68/2025 registered under Section 316(2)/318(4) of
BNS. 3. An FIR was lodged on 07.03.2025 against the petitioner along with 2 others by six
number of informant alleging inter-alia that they had invested huge amount of money in
"LUCRUM" company, vide beneficiary's A/C No. 923020034647529, Axis Bank, koochbihar
Branch in the month of July, 2024, authorized by accused No. 1 (Mithun Das) from Tufanganj,
Koochbihar West Bengal along with accused No. 3(Nitish Ranjan Das) Managing Director of
the said company and the petitioner Accordingly, they were issued sovereign Gold Bond shown
to be issued by the Govt. of India which were later on found to be fraud one. In order to invest
of the money informant were asked to open a Demat A/c in ICICI Bank by installing the same
in Mobile phone. Upon installation the bond issued to the informant were reflected in the
mobile phone however, the same was not reflected in the ICIC direct. In fact, the balance in the
demat A/C was shown a 0 (zero). It was further allegation of the informant that the amount
invested by the informant have not been return to them and when the accused persons are
approached, the accused persons started to avoid them. Under such allegations the FIR was
lodged and registered under Section 316(2)/318(4) BNS. 4. On perusal of the case diary, there appears to be sufficient incriminating materials against
the petitioner pointing to his involvement in conducting the scam by the above named company
and its officials, for which custodial interrogation may be required. 5. Although it is submitted that the petitioner himself has been a victim of the said fraud
company wherein, the petitioner himself invested an amount of Rs.11 lakhs, there is no
document furnished by the petitioner to support such claim. 6. Considering the above, the prayer for pre-arrest bail of the petitioner stands rejected. 7. Anticipatory bail petition stands dismissed. Return the case diary. JUDGE
Comparing Assistant