/font> 

 14.22 hrs. 

Title: Discussion on the Motion of Thanks on the President’s Address initiated by Shri Vijay Kumar Malhora and seconded by Shri Suresh Prabhu on 24 February, 2003. SHRI M.V.V.S. MURTHI ( VISAKHAPATNAM ): Mr. Deputy-Speaker, Sir, it is my pleasant duty to speak on the Motion of Thanks on President’s Address. The President has listed many reforms in his Address this year to transform India into a country of prosperity and peace. He has also put up an ambitious goal of achieving eight per cent GDP growth. To enunciate a few, I would mention that it is the goal of the Tenth Five Year Plan, 2002-2007, that we must achieve eight per cent growth in GDP and give five crore jobs to the youth. Tenth Plan is not merely a resource plan but also a reforms plan, as stated by the Hon. President. To start with, the first reform is going to be started on 1st April, that is, introduction of VAT in the country – a uniform sales tax. Our export growth is consistently around 20 per cent during the last year and the year before and our foreign exchange reserves have crossed US $ 73 billion. These are all goals set and they have to be achieved in the next five years if we want to survive as a nation providing food, shelter and universal education to all the people – one billion people. Year after year, we are setting goals; however, there is not much follow-up action. We are not in a serious position to fix priorities also because we are indulging ourselves in non-priority issues most of the time, and pushing aside serious issues, like economic growth, reforms, education, health and internal security. There is a steep downfall in the GDP growth rate : it is only 4.4 per cent in the current year. We are unable to make headway in the field of education. This House has passed the Constitution (Amendment) Bill providing for compulsory education to the youth, the youngsters, in the age group of six to fourteen years. We have shifted this onus to the parents. The onus is on the panchyats and the municipalities to make this really a success story that the youth of tomorrow will all be educated. We are spending money on universal education without much result. Though a provision has been made for that, we have to take up the issue of educating our children very seriously. This has to be a priority item, if we have to survive as a technologically strong nation. Year after year, we are discussing about the drought situation, and the flood situation in the rainy season, prevailing in the country. Today, the drought situation is so horrifying that States like Rajasthan and Andhra Pradesh are facing severe drought conditions, and people are unable to get even one square-meal a day. The Government of India is not able to come to the rescue of these drought-stricken areas. Yesterday, while discussing this issue, the learned Member Shri Somnath Chatterjee said that Andhra Pradesh was getting whatever it wanted because the Chief Minister comes and speaks to the concerned here, but the real story is different. Yesterday there was a newspaper report stating that cattle were being sold away in Guntur and Ongole Districts of Andhra Pradesh for want of fodder and water. The people there were not able to provide fodder for their animals and the animals were being sold away to be killed. SHRI MANI SHANKAR AIYAR ( MAYILADUTURAI ): Cow slaughter! 

SHRI M.V.V.S. MURTHI : They were being sold away to be killed in the slaughterhouses. This is what has appeared in the Press. If it were true that things were moving at our Chief Minister’s request, these incidents would not have happened. These things would have taken a different connotation. Rajasthan asked for foodgrains and they were given around 21 lakh tonnes of wheat. Andhra Pradesh asked for an assistance of Rs.2,373.44 crore, and 25 lakh tonnes of rice. The Government has given them only five lakh tonnes of foodgrains. If the things had been going on as is alleged, A.P. would have at least got 50 per cent as Rajasthan has got, though Andhra Pradesh’s population is almost double than that of Rajasthan. This is a very unfortunate situation. There are hunger deaths and there is no drinking water. This is the situation prevailing today both in the urban and rural areas. There is no drinking water either in the urban areas or in the rural areas. We talk about achieving eight per cent growth in the next Five-Year Plan. How is it possible when we are not able to feed our people; when we are not able to provide them drinking water? We are failing in our effort to fix our priorities. An hon. Member has drawn a parallel between China and India. It is a different matter that we need not draw such parallels. We can do things in our own way because our conditions are different. We can put our energies to use in a different manner. Yet, there is one point I would like to refer to in this regard. In 1981, the percentage of people involved in agricultural activity in China was 68 per cent whereas in India it was 69 per cent. The two figures are almost similar to each other. Everybody cannot live on agriculture today because we are poverty-stricken, because we are hungry. So many issues are involved in agriculture. We are not able to provide irrigation facilities and several other things, and the nature also is against us. Therefore, starvation is there. From 68 per cent in 1981, China has been able to bring down the percentage of agricultural workforce to 54 per cent in 1999. India has been able to bring it down from 69 per cent to 62 per cent in the same period. The difference in this percentage reduction in the two countries is vast. That means, we are not able to provide other livelihood to the people involved in agriculture. If we pursue the same policies in the future also, we may not be able to provide livelihood to those people in other sectors and they would ever remain in the agricultural sector. We are not able to exceed 2.4 per cent of our GDP in agricultural sector. It has dipped to 2.4 per cent. Ultimately it is brought down to 2.4 per cent. There is a vast gap between our targets and our achievements. With the circumstances, it is very difficult to cope up with the pace of development. Unless we change our attitude and priority seriously, we may not be able to succeed in our efforts. Even after 55 years of our Independence, 26 per cent people are still living below poverty line. The largest number of poor people are in India. They do not have shelter; they do not have clothing; they do not have education; they do not have food even. We are not able to remove the social stigma also. The social stigma is still there. In the villages, the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes are put to humiliation even today. They are not being allowed to mix up with the rest of the people. So, unless we change our attitude and bring some reforms, which we have been talking about all these years, how can we remove this social stigma? Sir, the hon. President has rightly said that there is an urgent need for transfer of river waters from the water-excess areas to the water-deficit areas. They are interconnecting the rivers so that irrigation could be attended to, the drinking water needs could be met, irrigation facilities could be improved and the hydel power could be produced. This way, the inland tourism could also be improved. We have neglected these areas. More than 62 per cent of our people are involved in agriculture as on date, and we are not talking about them. But we are talking about all other areas. So, it is a priority area now. On whatever the Government has said rightly, they should put a roadmap, milestones, saying by which time to which time the inter-linking of the rivers would be done so that excess water from the rivers could be sent to the water-deficit areas, so that the farming community, which is the majority of the community, could be benefited. There should be a time-bound programme on this. Otherwise, every year we will be going on wasting our time. Sir, all the major political parties agree with disinvestment. They are also not against privatisation. Yesterday itself their leader had said that they are not against privatisation. So, disinvestment is an irreversible momentum.… (Interruptions) SHRI PRAVIN RASHTRAPAL ( PATAN ): Yesterday, it was said that it was not the right way and we do not approve that. SHRI M.V.V.S. MURTHI : But you are not against disinvestment, in principle. That is what I am saying.… (Interruptions) SHRI MANI SHANKAR AIYAR : Sir, since a reference has been made to the remark of the Leader of the Opposition, the exact statement she made was that our opposition is not to privatisation per se. But we have raised many legitimate concerns, concerns that reflect what the people of India are also thinking. So, please do not limit us.… (Interruptions) SHRI M.V.V.S. MURTHI : What does it mean? SHRI MANI SHANKAR AIYAR : What it means is that unless and until these concerns are met and subject to those concerns.… (Interruptions) SHRI M.V.V.S. MURTHI : That is what I am saying. You have to hear me. Without hearing me you are telling. So, by and large, the principle is accepted. Only the other modalities have to be explained. MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: Shri M.V.V.S. Murthi, you can place your viewpoint. If there is any objection or difference of viewpoint, the subsequent speakers when their turns come, would clarify. SHRI M.V.V.S. MURTHI : Yes, Sir. The disinvestment is to reduce public debt and to utilise public resources for creation of social and infrastructural facilities. We have no objection if it is meant to reduce public debt and also to invest in social and infrastructure sector. This has to be properly explained to the House. While fixing priority for disinvestment also, all the loss-making units have to be disinvested first and then the profit-making units should follow so that the country does not lose further on account of this disinvestment. I think this is an acceptable solution to many of us. SHRI MANI SHANKAR AIYAR : It is not acceptable to the Government. SHRI M.V.V.S. MURTHI : I am only repeating what they have stated. A comprehensive Electricity Bill is also due. Unless there is audit of the energy, the country will be losing heavily on account of this. We are not able to provide energy to drive the wheels of progress. The Government has also stated that the Electricity Bill is due and that there will be some reform towards conservation of energy. It is important to note what the hon. President has stated. He had said that it is his dream to transform India into a developed nation by 2020. This is achievable provided implementation machinery is effective. People’s participation is also required. Unless we make people participate and unless we fix our priorities, we may not be able to fulfil this dream of the President. It is a good thing if it is made to happen. Vision 2000 is to provide urban amenities in rural areas. Towards this end we already have the Pradhan Mantri Sarak Yojana which is covering village to village. Inter-connectivity of villages is achieved through this Yojana. Development of Highways is also being taken up so that the villages are brought nearer to urban areas and hence people living in remote places may not feel that they have been neglected. I consider this statement of connecting rural areas by urban amenities to be very important and this should be taken into consideration seriously. We have been talking about empowerment of women for long but we are not able to pass the Women’s Reservation Bill. I think yesterday also major political parties had said that they are ready to pass this Bill. From our side also, we are ready to pass this Bill so that they are empowered. What percentage it should be, whether 33 per cent or 50 per cent, can be sorted out. As we could see, there is a great threat to internal security. Naxalism is spreading its tentacles throughout the country. ISI is also extending its activities in cross-border terrorism. The Government should immediately curb these terrorist activities by achieving all-round growth. It is not possible to achieve the desired growth rate unless there is internal security, peace, and tranquillity. The reforms are also required immediately in the economic development area. We have to reform immediately the power sector also. We need reforms in the labour laws also. Unless the labour laws are reformed, we will not be able to achieve the desired level of economic growth. We have to compete in the international market for our exports. We are boasting that we have achieved 20 per cent growth in exports. But what we are exporting is also very important. When we think of explaining the ratio, most of them are minerals and raw materials which are contributing to our exports. It is not a very healthy sign. On the one side, we want to conserve our mineral and metal resources but on the other side, we are exporting them. We are causing depletion of minerals which is not a very healthy sign. So, the value-added and machinery products have to be exported. Like other countries, we should improve ourselves. Instead of exporting raw material, we should concentrate on exporting finished goods. We must make an immediate start for the formation of Special Economic Zones. This is also not being taken up seriously. It is going on at a very slow pace. Unless we start forming these Special Economic Zones in the notified areas, we may not be able to boost the exports. On the one side, all this is being done and on the other side, we say that we have the lowest inflation rate. There will not be any inflation if there is no domestic consumption. We are not able to trigger the domestic demand for our goods. It is because of the low income of the people. The drought conditions are prevailing. We have to push the demand for the domestic consumption. We also have to bring down our rates of interest. We have to make them uniform to compete internationally so that we are able to boost our exports. These are some of the areas which need improvement. Today, we boast that we have so much stock of foodgrains. If it is so, why is there starvation? Why is there malnutrition? Why are we not able to provide foodgrains to people? Instead of keeping them in the godowns, this has to be given to the poor people, to old people, and to those who are in need of it. We are not able to provide food security. We should be ashamed of this. We should provide food security to the poor people. If the 26 crore people who are below poverty line are really in need of food, we should find ways to strengthen our Public Distribution System and provide them food. Today, we say that our oilseeds production has increased but our oil consumption has decreased in this quarter. We are not able to provide necessary edible oil. The prices of edible oil have gone up. So, the consumption has come down. This is an ironical situation. When there is an excess production, why the prices should go up? Why are we not able to make it available to the common people? There should not be any malnutrition. MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: Please conclude. You have already taken half-an-hour allotted to your Party. SHRI M.V.V.S. MURTHI : Sir, I waited yesterday for the whole day. I will conclude in another two-three minutes. This year has been the worst in regard to agricultural production. Production of Kharif crop has gone down by 19 per cent; production of oilseeds went down by 25 per cent; production of sugarcane went down by five per cent and the production of cotton went down by 22 per cent. Sixty-two per cent of our population is engaged in the production of these crops. The production of Rabi crop has also not been encouraging this year. The Government should take some serious steps in this regard and particularly make efforts to link rivers for providing better irrigation facilities and ensuring a stable opportunity to the farming community. The Government should also enhance the Minimum Support Price for the agricultural produce. Many of the farmers are not having enough money to send their children to schools in the villages. The situation, as prevailing in the country, is very bad. Today the children in the State of Andhra Pradesh are going to school because the Government is providing mid-day meal to them. If there was no mid-day meal scheme, then the children would not have gone to school. If such is the situation that is prevailing in the country, how is it possible for us to achieve our dreams? Mr. Deputy-Speaker, Sir, there is no civil aviation policy in the country. The hon. Minister is present here. The Government would have to formulate a civil aviation policy. Presently there is a shortage of aircraft. Last week, the flight to Vishakhapatnam was cancelled three times owing to shortage of aircraft. I would like to urge upon the hon. Minister to formulate a civil aviation policy at the earliest and also order for more aircraft. Since the Government wants to disinvest the Airlines, the necessary aspects are being neglected. THE MINISTER OF CIVIL AVIATION (SHRI SYED SHAHNAWAZ HUSSAIN): We have invested Rs. 100 crore for the airport in Vishakhapatnam. SHRI M.V.V.S. MURTHI : The development of the airport is all right. But what would the airport do if there are no aircraft? There should not be last minute cancellation of flights because of this. We must have a consistent policy to achieve our objectives. The Government particularly should take a sympathetic view on the drought situation and provide support to those who need foodgrains and drinking water, and also provide fodder for the animals. The situation is very bad. Unless the Central Government comes to the rescue of the State of Andhra Pradesh, the State would be in a very serious situation in the coming few months, particularly with the onset of summer. Sir, since you are ringing your bell and asking me to complete my speech, I would conclude with these few words but would like to urge upon the Government that we should cherish and fulfil our dreams by the year 2020, as has been mentioned. Let the Government have a road map as to how to go ahead and achieve our goals step by step. If we forget about it after five years, then we would again be back to the starting point. We should not be at the starting point. Such a thing has happened so many times in the past. We never followed it up in a serious way. We should make a serious effort in this regard. I am sure, with a serious effort we would succeed as a nation and we would grow and prosper as a nation. श्री चन्द्रकांत खैरे ( औरंगाबाद, महाराष्ट्र ) : उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, मैं राष्ट्रपति महोदय के अभिभाषण पर धन्यवाद प्रस्ताव का समर्थन करने और अपना आभार व्यक्त करने के लिए खड़ा हुआ हूं। हमारी पार्टी शिव सेना के जो मुद्दे हैं मैं उनके बारे में विनम्रता से निवेदन करना चाहता हूं। राष्ट्रपति जी ने अपने अभिभाष में वर्ष २०२० तक भारत को एक विकसित राष्ट्र का लक्ष्य प्राप्त करने की ओर अग्रसर होने हेतु जनता का आहवान किया है। राष्ट्रपति जी का अभिभाषण बहुत ही अच्छा और महत्वपूर्ण है। इससे अपने देशवासियों को एक अच्छा संदेश जाने का मार्ग स्वीकृत हुआ है। मैं यह कहूंगा कि भाषण बहुत लम्बा हुआ लेकिन उसमें बहुत से मुद्दे, बहुत अच्छी तरह से, एनडीए की सरकार ने जो अपने कार्यकाल में किया है, जो अच्छा काम किया है उसका गुण-गौरव करना ही पड़ेगा।…( व्यवधान) उपाध्यक्ष महोदय : राजो सिंह जी, आप बैठ जाइए। …( व्यवधान)श्री चन्द्रकांत खैरे : राष्ट्रपति जी ने अपने भाषण में जो कहा है, जिन बातों की ओर संकेत दिया है, उसमें मैं यहां कुछ कहना चाहूंगा। इनका जो भाषण हुआ, उससे हमारा हिन्दुस्तान आगे बहुत ही प्रगतिशील होना चाहिए। सन् २०२० तक हिन्दुस्तान समृद्धशील होना चाहिए। हमारा देश चाइना से भी आगे जा सकता है, हिन्दुस्तान बाकी अन्य राष्ट्रों से प्रगतिशील हो सकता है, यह इन्होंने यहां कहा है। उपाध्यक्ष जी, महाराष्ट्र और मराठवाड़ा के तथा देशवासियों के कुछ प्रश्न मैं यहां उपस्थित करने वाला हूं। हमारे महाराष्ट्र में बहुत वर्षों से एक समस्या चल रही है - कर्नाटक और महाराष्ट्र सीमावाद।"१९६० में जब संयुक्त महाराष्ट्र का आंदोलन हुआ और उसमें संयुक्त महाराष्ट्र की ओर से जैसे नागपुर और मराठवाड़ा शामिल हुआ, हैदराबाद और कर्नाटक से अलग होकर मराठी भाषिक राज्य का यहां निर्माण हुआ। कर्नाटक में बहुत दिनों से एक जनआंदोलन चल रहा है। यह महाराष्ट्र एकीकरण समति के माध्यम से हुआ था। मुंबई में भी हुआ था।…( व्यवधान) श्रीमती मार्ग्रेट आल्वा ( कनारा ) : ये कभी ५० सीटें असेम्बली में लेते थे और इस साल एक भी सीट नहीं ली।…( व्यवधान)इस साल सब हार गए।…( व्यवधान) श्री चन्द्रकांत खैरे : असेम्बली में नहीं, लोक सभा में।…( व्यवधान) उपाध्यक्ष महोदय : मार्ग्रेट जी, जब आपका भाषण होगा तब आप बोलिए। श्री चन्द्रकांत खैरे : मुझे कर्नाटक और महाराष्ट्र में कोई झगड़ा निर्माण नहीं करना है। …( व्यवधान) उपाध्यक्ष महोदय : हमारे सामने बहुत लम्बी लिस्ट है और टाइम बहुत कम है। श्री चन्द्रकांत खैरे : उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, मुझे कर्नाटक और महाराष्ट्र में कोई झगड़ा नहीं करना है, लेकिन वहां की मराठी जनता की भावनाओं को मैं आपके सामने रख रहा हूं।…( व्यवधान)ये दोनों भी कांग्रेसी मुख्य मंत्री हैं - कृष्णा जी और सुशील कुमार शिंदे जी। शरद पवार जी और उसके बाद बड़े-बड़े नेता, जो हमारे यहां आ चुके हैं, कोई यहां है और कोई उधर है। इन सभी नेताओं के नेतृत्व में, सभी पार्टियों का शिष्ट मंडल बहुत बार आदरणीय प्रधानमंत्री जी से मिल चुका है। इंदिरा गांधी जी से लेकर, सभी प्रधानमंत्रियों से मिलने के बाद भी कुछ हल नहीं निकला। मेरा यह कहना है कि बेलगाम, करवाड़ और नेपाड़ी आदि सभी के सभी महाराष्ट्र में सम्मिलित हो जाएं, यह मेरी और वहां की जनता की मांग है, जो मैं आपके सामने रख रहा हूं। उनकी भावनाओं को रख रहा हूं। हमारा जब संयुक्त महाराष्ट्र हुआ था, नागपुर करार हुआ था, जिस समय नागपुर करार हुआ था, हमारे जो मराठवाड़ा वाले हैं, मराठवाड़ा के जितने भी जिले हैं, वे पहले आंध्रा प्रदेश में थे, जो मध्य प्रदेश, मध्य भारत और नागपुर विदर्भ के थे, जब संयुक्त महाराष्ट्र हुआ और मराठी भाषिक राज्य का निर्माण हुआ, उसमें नागपुर करार ऐसा हुआ कि जो-जो भी समस्या है,…( व्यवधान) 15.00 hrs. 

आप मुझे देख रहे हैं। मेरा कहना है कि आप समय की तरफ मत देखिये। मैं अभी बोलूंगा। उपाध्यक्ष महोदय : आपको आपकी पार्टी का पूरा समय मिलेगा। आप १५ मिनट में से पांच मिनट ले चुके हैं। श्री चन्द्रकांत खैरे : मैं जल्दी-जल्दी बोलूंगा। मराठवाड़ा के तथा विदर्भ के सभी सांसद यहां बैठे हैं। मेरा कहना है कि नागपुर करार में जो कहा गया था, उसके इरीगेशन के प्रौजेक्ट अधूरे हैं। कुछ प्रौजेक्ट फारेस्ट के हैं जो कि एफ.सी. एक्ट १९८० के कारण हैं। इसके अलावा रेलवे के प्रौजेक्ट्स भी हैं। प्रधान मंत्री के नेतृत्व में राष्ट्रीय राजमार्ग योजना जो शुरू की गई, वह बहुत अच्छी योजना है। कल रेलवे बजट प्रस्तुत होने वाला है। रेलवे बजट पर तो हम बोलेंगे ही लेकिन इसका उल्लेख राष्ट्रपति महोदय के अभिभाषण में भी होना चाहिए था। प्रधान मंत्री सड़क योजना सभी ग्रामों को जोड़ने वाली अत्यंत महत्वपूर्ण योजना है। यह ग्रामीण भू-भागों के लिए बहुत ही उपयुक्त योजना है इसलिए इसका अभिनंदन होना चाहिए। जिस प्रकार से प्रधान मंत्री जी ने राष्ट्रीय राजमार्ग योजना शुरू की है उसी तरह से रेलवे के बारे में भी कोई योजना शुरू होनी चाहिए। राष्ट्रपति के अभिभाषण में भी यह मुद्दा आना चाहिए था। चूंकि पिछड़े इलाकों में कहीं भी स्वतंत्र रूप से कोई प्रौजेक्ट शुरू नहीं किया गया वैसे ही हमारा मराठवाड़ा क्षेत्र है। मराठवाड़ा के सांसदों के बार-बार मांग करने के कारण एन.डी.ए. सरकार द्वारा मराठवाड़ा में थोड़ा बहुत कार्य शुरू किया गया है। यदि हमें ९९३ करोड़ रुपये और मिल जायें तो हमारे सारे प्रौजेक्ट पूरे हो सकते हैं। अहमदनगर, बीड, परली, अकोला पुर्णा, लातूर, मिरज आदि चारों प्रौजेक्ट पूरे हो गये तो पिछले ५० वर्षों में मराठवाड़ा जिले में जो रेलवे लाइन नहीं बन पायी, उन्हें पूरा करने के लिए वहां एक महामंडल बनना चाहिए। इसी तरह सभी राज्यों के पेंडिंग्स प्रश्न पार्लियामैंट में लम्बित हैं, उन सबको लिया जाये। इससे हमारे देश की प्रगति होगी। महामहिम राष्ट्रपति जी ने अपने अभिभाषण में न्यायपालिका का उल्लेख किया है। महाराष्ट्र में मुम्बई हाईकोर्ट है। १९६० में नागपुर करार के तहत हाई कोर्ट का निर्माण किया गया। मेरा कहना है कि इसी तरह से मराठवाड़ा में हाई कोर्ट की एक बैंच होनी चाहिए। मैं यह भी कहना चाहता हूं कि सम्भाजी नगर और औरंगाबाद में हाई कोर्ट की स्थापना के लिए हमें बहुत ऐजीटेशन करना पड़ा था। हाई कोर्ट की बैंच से हमारे १० डिस्ट्रक्ट्स जुड़े हुए हैं जबकि वहां पांच .या छह जज ही बैठते हैं। राष्ट्रपति जी ने अपने अभिभाषण में यह चिन्ता व्यक्त की है कि न्यायपालिका में हजारों केसेज पेंडिंग्स पड़े हैं। मेरा कहना है कि उन केसों का निस्तारण इसके माध्यम से होना चाहिए। नागपुर बैंच में २० जजेस बैठते हैं। हमारे यहां मराठवाड़ा, सम्भाजी नागर और औरंगाबाद की हाई कोर्ट का एरिया इससे बड़ा है क्योंकि वहां बुलढाणा डिस्टि्रक्ट भी है जहां से हमारे अडसुल साहब, माननीय मंत्री जी आते हैं। वे यहां बैठे हैं। उनके यहां बार एसोसियेशन ने यह प्रस्ताव पास किया है कि बुलढाणा को भी मराठवाड़ा औरंगाबाद की हाई कोर्ट में सम्मिलित किया जाये। इसी तरह श्री अन्ना पाटिल साहब यहां बैठे हैं। उनका डिस्टि्रक्ट जलगांव है। इस तरह धुलिया डिस्टि्रक्ट, नागर डि्रस्टि्रक्ट आदि सबको मिलाकर वहां १२ डिस्टि्रक्ट्स होने वाले हैं। मेरा कहना है कि इन १२ डिस्टि्रक्ट्स के लिए कम से कम हाई कोर्ट के २० जजों की नियुक्ति होनी चाहिए। यह प्रस्ताव संसद द्वारा पारित किया गया था। राष्ट्रपति जी ने अपने अभिभाषण में इस बारे में चिन्ता व्यक्त की है इसलिए इस पर कुछ न कुछ जरूर होना चाहिए। इसके लिए मैं मांग करता हूं। मैं एन.डी.ए. सरकार को धन्यवाद दूंगा विशेषकर श्री जगमोहन जी को धन्यवाद दूंगा क्योंकि अजंता एलोरा का प्रौजैक्ट हमारी बुक में आ गया है। उन्होंने इसको सैकिंड फेज में लिया है। उसमें अंतर्राष्ट्रीय पर्यटकों के लिए बहुत अच्छी सुविधाओं का प्रावधान किया गया है। यह विश्व ऐतिहासिक स्थान है, ऐडवेंचर्स स्थान है। अजंता-एलोरा को महत्व दिया गया है। इसमें और भी सुविधाओं का प्रावधान हो रहा है, उसके लिए मैं राष्ट्रपति, प्रधान मंत्री और जगमोहन जी को धन्यवाद देता हूं। महाराष्ट्र में संत गार्गी नाम के एक बहुत बड़े संत हुए हैं और वह ऐसे संत थे कि वह खुद झाड़ू लेकर साफ-सफाई करते थे। देवकीनन्दन गोपाला, देवकीनन्दन गोपाला, ऐसा भजन करते थे। उन्होंने जो विधायी कार्य किया, आज तक कांग्रेस और राष्ट्रवादी सरकार ने उनकी ही योजना चालू की है। राष्ट्रवादी और कांग्रेस की एक ही सफल योजना महाराष्ट्र में रही है और उसमें भी कुछ ज्यादा पैसा नहीं लगा है। गार्गी बाबा का नाम लिया, हम भी उनका बहुत सम्मान करते हैं। गार्गी बाबा के नाम से पूरे महाराष्ट्र के गांव-गांव में साज-सफाई की योजना वहां की सरकार ने की है। संत गार्गी बाबा विधायी काम करने वाले संत थे। उनका यहां संसद के परिसर में एक तैलीय चित्र होना चाहिए, ऐसी मैं आपके माध्यम से सरकार से विनती करता हूं। वह एक बहुत आदर्श संत थे। कल कांग्रेस के मित्रों ने संतों के बारे में टीका-टिप्पणी की। कई ऐसे संत हुए हैं कि आप उनकी परम्पराएं, मान्यताएं देखिए कि वे कितने महान कार्य कर चुके हैं। बहुत बड़े-बड़े नेता भी उनके पास जाते थे और उनके साथ साफ-सफाई करते थे। यहां मैं बताना चाहूंगा कि राष्ट्रपति जी ने अपने भाषण में पांच करोड़ अतरिक्त रोजगार का निर्माण करने के लिए अपना सुझाव दिया था। इसके साथ पांच करोड़ अतरिक्त रोजगार के अवसर का लक्ष्य रखा गया। मुझे दुख होता है और वह इसलिए होता है कि रोजगार बढ़ाने का काम हम लोग कर रहे हैं। लेकिन पचास-साठ साल से जो सरकार चलती आ रही है, यह उनका कर्तव्य था और इसके लिए सरकारी कंपनियों का निर्माण होना चाहिए। सरकारी कंपनियों का निर्माण, पब्लिक लमिटेड कॉरपोरेशन, अंडरटेकिंग बाई सैन्ट्रल गवर्नमेंट और ऐसी कई कॉरपोरेशंस का निर्माण हुआ है लेकिन कुछ घाटे में गईं और कुछ कंपनियों के सीएमडी, ईडी, डाइरेक्टर्स और अधिकारियों के कारण कुछ कंपनियां घाटे में गईं। डिसइंवेस्टमेंट के लिए हमारा विरोध कुछ मामलों में नहीं है लेकिन आज डिसइंवेस्टमेंट के लिए मैं आपको बताना चाहूंगा कि बड़ी-बड़ी अच्छी-अच्छी कंपनियां डिसइंवेस्टमेंट के नाम पर सैल की जा रही हैं। इसके लिए हमारा कुछ विरोध भी है। मैं यह कहूंगा कि एचपीसीएल, बीपीसीएल की यहां चर्चा होने वाली है। उस समय सारा विश्लेषण मैं यहां देने वाला हूं। २६ तारीख को पूरे देश भर में एचपीसीएल, बीपीसीएल के लोग स्ट्राइक करने के लिए आ रहे हैं। एचपीसीएल और बीपीसीएल में ज्यादातर मराठी लोग हैं और मैं यह कहूंगा कि डिसइंवेस्टमेंट होने से महाराष्ट्र में ज्यादा नुकसान होगा। सेंटॉर होटल के प्रश्न के समय माननीय मत्री जी ने कहा था कि प्रॉफिट मेकिंग कंपनीज को हम सैल नहीं करेंगे और तीन सील की रिपोर्ट जब पार्लियामेंट में आई तो कितना ज्यादा लाभ था, यह भी बताया गया था लेकिन मेरी मांग है कि उनको आप मत करिए क्योंकि पांच करोड़ का जो रोजगार देना है, वह हम कैसे देंगे? जब सरकार का उद्देश्य अच्छे-अच्छे पढ़े-लिखे बुद्धिजीवी, इंजीनियर्स, डॉक्टर्स, साइंटिस्ट्स के लिए कारखाने के माध्यम से एम्पलॉयमेंट क्रिएट करना था। यह हमारी सरकार का कर्तव्य है। हालांकि एनडीए में हम लोग सहयोगी दल हैं लेकिन जो प्रॉफिट मेकिंग कंपनी है, उसमें आप यह डिसइंवेस्टमेंट मत करिए क्योंकि इनका करेंगे तो बाकी सारे एम्पलाईज बेघर हो जाएंगे जैसे सेंटॉर होटल के हुए। उसमें मैं यह कहूंगा कि इसमें चर्चा का विषय ज्यादा नहीं है क्योंकि जब बीएसी की बैठक होगी और उसमें विषय लिये जाएंगे तो उसमें भी हम बोलेंगे लेकिन आज की सेंटॉर होटल की परिस्थिति बहुत बुरी है। वहां के एम्पलाईज को कुछ पैसा नहीं मिला। सारा पैसा ग्रुप ने ले लिया औऱ वह पैसा घर चला गया। एनडीए की सरकार के बारे में बहुत गलत धारणा बन रही है। सरकार क्या कर रही है, कैसे कर रही है, यह मैं आपको बताना चाहता हूं ।सरकार क्या कर रही है, कैसे कर रही है। मैं आपके माध्यम से सरकार को यह बताना चाहता हूं। राष्ट्रपति जी ने अपने अभिभाषण में बांग्लादेशियों की भारत में घुसपैठ के बारे में जिक्र किया है और अपनी चिंता जाहिर की है। महाराष्ट्र में मधुकर सर्पोतदार जी, जो शिव सेना के इसी सदन में पहले नेता भी रह चुके हैं, उनके क्षेत्र में ६२,००० बांग्लादेशी मतदाता हैं। जब महाराष्ट्र में शिव सेना और भारतीय जनता पार्टी की संयुक्त सरकार थी तो उस समय हमने अपने राज्य से बांग्लादेशियों को निकालने का काम किया था, जो आज पश्चिम बंगाल और भारत सरकार भी कर रही है। हमारे अधिकारी और पुलिस वाले जब गैर कानूनी रूप से रह रहे बांग्लादेशियों को वापस भेजने के लिए कोलकाता गए तो वहां लोगों ने उन पर पत्थरबाजी की। हमारे पश्चिम बंगाल के भाइयों को ऐसा लगा कि शायद ये लोग पश्चिम बंगाल के लोगों को ही महाराष्ट्र से भगा रहे हैं इसलिए उन्होंने उन अधिकारियों और पुलिस वालों को मारा। जिसकी वजह से हमारे कई लोग घायल हो गए। उप प्रधान मंत्री और गृह मंत्री जी भी इस विषय पर अपनी चिंता व्यक्त कर चुके हैं। बांग्लादेश में आई.एस.आई. अपना जाल बिछा रही है और इन घुसपैठियों की मदद से आतंकवादियों को भारत में प्रवेश कराने का प्रयत्न कर रही है। पूरे देश में इस तरह से आतंकवाद और अराजकता के वातावरण का निर्माण करने के पाकिस्तान ऐसा काम कर रहा है। भारतीय जनता पार्टी और शिव सेना को छोड़कर अन्य राजनीतिक दलों ने इन बांग्लादेशी घुसपैठियों का नाम वोटर लिस्ट में दर्ज करा दिया है, जिससे इन लोगों को यहां वोट करने का अधिकार मिल गया है। इस बारे में अधिकारियों ने भी कुछ नहीं देखा। इसलिए मेरा निवेदन है कि ये सारे नाम वोटर लिस्ट से निकालने चाहिए। हमारे महाराष्ट्र में खैरवाड़ी क्षेत्र, जो कि हमारे पूर्व नेता मधुकर सर्पोतदार जी का क्षेत्र है, वहां ६०,००० के करीब बांग्लादेशी वोटर हैं। मुम्बई में दो लाख के करीब ऐसे वोटर हैं और पूरे देश में इनकी संख्या करीब एक करोड़ है। इस पर भारत सरकार को गम्भीरता से विचार करना चाहिए। मुम्बई में जो बम विस्फोट हुआ और दिल्ली में संसद पर जो आतंकवादियों का हमला हुआ, हम लोग पहले यह समझते थे कि ये छोटे लोग होंगे। लेकिन बाद में पता चला कि पाकिस्तान बुद्धिजीवियों को भी अपने साथ लेकर इस काम में उनको लगा रहा है कि वे भी कुछ करें। मैं किसी धर्म के बारे में नहीं बोलूंगा। लेकिन जो आतंकवादी मारे गए, वे कौन थे, यह सबको पता चल चुका है। मुझे याद है कि जब उमर अब्दुल्ला जी ने यहां भाषण में कहा था कि आतंकवाद चाहे जिस धर्म का हो, उसके कारण वह धर्म बदनाम नहीं होना चाहिए। यह बात हम भी जानते हैं और शिव सेना भी इसको मानती है। लेकिन आतंकवादियों की कौन मदद कर रहा है, इसका पता लगाना चाहिए। संसद पर हमले में गिरफ्तार लोगों में एक दिल्ली विश्वविद्यालय में पढ़ाने वाला प्रोफेसर था। मुम्बई में जो बम विस्फोट हुआ, उसमें जो भी लोग पकड़े गए, सबको मालूम है कि वे कौन थे। उपाध्यक्ष महोदय : आपकी पार्टी के लिए १५ मिनट एलाट किए गए हैं। आप स्वयं इतना समय ले चुके हैं, जबकि अभी आपकी पार्टी की तरफ से एक स्पीकर को और बोलना है। श्री चन्द्रकांत खैरे : मैं पांच मिनट में अपनी बात समाप्त कर दूंगा। आतंकवादियों के बारे में हिन्दुस्तान की सरकार को केवल चिंता ही व्यक्त नहीं करनी चाहिए, उनके खिलाफ एक्शन भी लेना चाहिए। जब अमेरिका में ११ सितम्बर को हादसा हुआ तो उन्होंने अफगानिस्तान में तालिबान शासन को खत्म करने का बीड़ा उठाया और उसको पूरा किया। उन्होंने पाकिस्तान में जाकर उनके अड्डों को नष्ट किया। जी टी.वी. बताता है कि पाकिस्तान अधिकृत कश्मीर में आज भी आतंकवादियों के अड्डे और कैम्प चल रहे हैं। हमारी सरकार वहां हमला करके क्यों नहीं वह अड्डे नष्ट करती। वहां सीमा पर आठ महीने तक हमारी फौज रही, लेकिन इस सम्बन्ध में कुछ नहीं किया गया। अगर उन पर हमला हो जाता, उनके अड्डों पर हमला होता तो देश में आतंकवादी गतवधियों पर रोक लगती। हमारी पार्टी शिव सेना और हमारे नेता बाला साहेब ठाकरे जी भी यही बात कहते हैं कि इनकी गोली आती है तो उसका उत्तर भी गोली से देना चाहिए। उनको कुचल देना चाहिए और उनके साथ कोई चर्चा नहीं होनी चाहिए। जो भी ऐसे आतंकवादी संगठन हैं उनको सरकार को कुचलना चाहिए। आज पाकिस्तानी आतंकवादी देश में घुसकर अराजकता पैदा कर रहे हैं। अयोध्या पर कल मुझे बोलना है। पूरे हिंदुस्तान से कल संत चलकर दिल्ली आये थे। उनका कहना था कि जो राम जन्मभूमि न्यास की जमीन है उसे वापस न्यास को दिया जाए। पिछले १२-१३ साल से यह मामला चल रहा है और १३वीं लोक सभा के भंग होने तक यह मामला सदन में उठता रहा है। आज हमारी एनडीए की सरकार सत्ता में है। यूपी में भी माननीय राजनाथ सिंह जी की सरकार थी। इसलिए इस विषय पर शीघ्र कोई डिसीजन लिया जाना चाहिए जिससे यह मसला हल हो सके। हाई-कोर्ट में सरकार की जो भूमिका रही उसके लिए हम सरकार को धन्यवाद देते हैं। साधु-संतों ने भारत का नाम हिंदुस्तान किया है। हम तो हिंदुस्तान पहले से ही कहते हैं। हम मानते हैं कि यह हिंदू राष्ट्र है और हमारा इस विषय में कोई कम्प्रोमाइज नहीं है। साधु-संतों ने जो कहा कि इसका नाम हिंदुस्तान होना चाहिए तो मैं तो इस लोक संसद से विनती करुंगा कि इस विषय पर एक मोशन लाएं जिससे इसका नाम हिंदुस्तान हो जाए।…( व्यवधान) १५.१६ hrs. ( Shrimati Margaret Alva in the Chair) 

पाकिस्तानी टीवी या रेडियो आप चालू करेंगे तो पायेंगे कि वे लोग हिंदुस्तान ही कहते हैं भारत या इंडिया नहीं कहते हैं। जब पाकिस्तानी टीवी और रेडियो को हिंदुस्तान कहने में कोई आपत्ति नहीं है तो हमें क्यों हो। सभापति महोदया : पाकिस्तान जो नाम देगा क्या हम वही मानेंगे? श्री चन्द्रकांत खैरे : गौ-रक्षा के बारे में भी मैं बोलना चाहता हूं। सभापति महोदया : आपकी पार्टी शिव सेना के १५ थे आप २० मिनट बोल चुके हैं। श्री चन्द्रकांत खैरे : सभापति महोदया, गाय हमारी मां है, उसकी रक्षा होनी चाहिए। वैज्ञानिक रूप से भी सिद्ध हो चुका है कि गाय का मल-मूत्र और दूध बहुत उपयोगी होता है। उसकी बहुत महत्ता है। एनडीए की सरकार ने जो कुछ प्रगति की है उसके लिए मैं सरकार के सारे मंत्रियों का शिव सेना की तरफ से हार्दिक अभिनंदन करता हूं। लेकिन मेरी एक ही शिकायत है कि जब हम मंत्रियों को फोन करते हैं तो उनके पीएस या पीए उनको फोन नहीं देते हैं। जब हम उनको जोर देकर कहते हैं या कहते हैं कि मैं शिव-सेना का सांसद बोल रहा हूं तभी फोन देते हैं। मैं इस विषय में माननीय राम नायक जी को धन्यवाद देना चाहूंगा कि वे जनता से ९ से १० बजे और सांसदों से ३ से ४ बजे के बीच मिलते हैं। मैं सारे मंत्रियों से निवेदन करुंगा कि उन्हें जनप्रतनधियों से फोन पर मिलना चाहिए। दिन में एक घंटा सांसदों से मिलना चाहिए। सांसदों का प्रतनधित्व कहीं पर १६ लाख तो कहीं पर १२ लाख रहता है। मैं कहना चाहता हूं कि अगर मंत्रियों को समय नहीं मिल पाता है, तो अधिकारियों की जिम्मेदारी होती है कि समस्या का समाधान करें। कलैक्टर से लेकर सीनियर आफिसर का जनता से संबंध नहीं रहता है, ऐसी स्थिति में जनता किसके पास जाए । फोन करते हैं, तो कहा जाता है कि मंत्री किसी एक काम या दूसरे काम के लिए गए हैं। छवि को सुधारने की दिशा में प्रयास होना चाहिए। मै अंत में एक बात कह कर अपनी बात समाप्त करूंगा। हमारे देश में २६ करोड़ से भी ज्यादा लोग गरीबी की रेखा से नीचे रहते हैं। इन लोगों को इंदिरा आवास योजना के अन्तर्गत दी जानी वाली राशि को बढ़ाना चाहिए। आपने मुझे बोलने के लिए समय दिया, इसके लिए आपको धन्यवाद। SHRI MANI SHANKAR AIYAR ( MAYILADUTURAI ): Madam Chairperson, as usual, after making his speech, Dr. Vijay Kumar Malhotra has fled the scene. He is the person who moved the Motion. Parliamentary etiquette requires that he sit here while other people debate the Motion that he has moved. Not only has he disappeared, but the gentleman who seconded the Motion, Shri Suresh Prabhu, has also run away and we are forced to discuss this extremely important subject, the President’s Address, in the absence of both the mover and the seconder. Madam, for I fear that now Shri Chandrakant Khaire will also run away and that Shri Digvijay Singh’s roster duty will finish, although the gravamen of my speech is on other subjects, let me deal with the matters that concern them before they go away. Madam, in paragraph 26 of the President’s Address, a reference has been made to the All-India Panchayat Adhyakshas’ Sammelan and the Resolutions adopted by it back in April last year, but there is no reference whatsoever to the fact that this is the ceremonial 10th anniversary year of the passage of the 73rd and 74th Constitution Amendments which transformed this nation from merely a collection of the Union and the States into a collection of the Union, the States and the institutions of local self-government at the grass-roots level. While the President has commended the initiative at the "grass-roots" level, I am surprised that Shri Chandrakant Khaire, who is the Chairman of the Standing Committee on Urban and Rural Development, has not mentioned paragraph 26 in his intervention. We need his support, because his Committee has produced an outstanding Report on the implementation of Part IX of the Constitution and is on the edge of producing an equally outstanding Report on the implementation of Part IX (A) of the Constitution. The Leader of the Opposition has made a suggestion that a Special Session of Parliament be convened in order to commemorate the 10th anniversary of the passage of these two Amendments, which are the single longest and most detailed Amendments ever passed by this Parliament, to the 

Constitution. Therefore, I would like to suggest, through you, Madam, to the Government – and, I think, I have, in this, the support of the Chairman of the Standing Committee – that this be conducted as a Joint Session of both Houses on Friday, the 9th May, which is the last scheduled date for the Budget Session. I think it would be an appropriate way of commending this very important initiative which is the only hope of securing grass-roots development through grass-roots democracy. Madam, before Shri Digvijay Singh decamps from here, I would like to express to him, through you, Madam, my deep sense of betrayal at what the Prime Minister has done in Kuala Lumpur after the speeches that we made here on the Iraq issue. Madam, we now see why it is that the Treasury Benches refused to let us table a Joint Resolution on the subject. We had said that the elements of that Joint Resolution could be the statement made by the Permanent Representative of India in the Security Council on the 17th October, 2002. I had warned Shri Digvijay Singh that the shadow of the past was being cast across South Block because the gentleman, who was, on that day, sitting next to him and who replied on his behalf, started making statements that were at variance with even the contents of UN Resolution 1441. When the Prime Minister spoke in Kuala Lumpur, instead of reflecting the feelings of this House on the Iraq issue, as promised to us by Shrimati Sushma Swaraj, Minister of Parliamentary Affairs, he, that is, the Prime Minister, gets up and delivers in Kuala Lumpur a lecture at Iraq - the victim - and has nothing to say about the aggressor - the United States of America. I said that the Government’s knees were quivering, that they spent all their time genuflecting to Washington and the speech made by the hon. Prime Minister in Kuala Lumpur was a shame, a disgrace to the Non-Aligned Movement and a clear proof that it was not accidental that in the President’s Address, which contained no less than 18 paragraphs on foreign policy – from paragraphs 60 to 77 – one-quarter of that Address was devoted to foreign policy the word ‘Non-Alignment’ or any reference to the ‘Non-Aligned Movement’ does not come in the very month in which the Non-Aligned Movement is holding its summit in Kuala Lumpur. I think that shows clearly that becoming the lapdog of Washington is the real priority of South Block and of this Government, and not asserting foreign policy as being based on a national consensus on Non-Alignment. I regard this shameful. I am ashamed that a country like India, which at NAM used to once speak through the voice of Shri Jawaharlal Nehru, Shrimati Indira Gandhi, Shri Rajiv Gandhi and even Shri P.V. Narasimha Rao, is now reduced to listening to what Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee has to say in Kuala Lumpur. He lectures to Iraq. There is nothing about the Americans and instead of converting it, what should have been a historic opportunity to establish a relationship between NAM and the European Union, into a ‘tu-tu’ 'mein-mein’ with Gen. Parvez Musharaff. It is this that the Leader of the Opposition meant when she said that even though there are concerns that we share about Pakistan, the fact of the matter is that they are using foreign policy as a surrogate for promoting communal division within this country. Now, I see that Shri Swami is also here. I told you that it would happen. For the fear that he too will run away, let me refer to paragraph 11. … (Interruptions) MADAM CHAIRMAN: When their duty is over, they are going. SHRI MANI SHANKAR AIYAR : Before Shri I.D. Swami follows the footsteps of Shri Digvijay Singh, may I draw his attention to paragraph 11 of the President’s Address which deals with the situation in the North-East and specifically refers to Nagaland? After the important initiative taken in January of this year for the Prime Minister to meet personally with Shri Issac Swu and with Shri Muivah of the NSCN(IM), I must say that it is deeply disappointing that the President has nothing to say on the substantive issues relating to peace in Nagaland and its implications for the rest of the North-East. Let me stress that the following points are crucial. First, the dialogue with the NSCN(IM) must be raised to a political level. It means that the present superannuated bureaucrat has to be replaced by a politically empowered political interlocutor. Secondly, the dialogue has to be comprehensive. It cannot be limited to the NSCN(IM). It must extend to the NSCN(K) and other underground groups operating in Nagaland. While there was some mild indication that this might be done, nothing further has concretely been done in this direction. Thirdly, Madam, we must aim at a durable political settlement and it can be durable only if it extends across the entire spectrum of dissidents in Nagaland, in particular and North-East in general. Fourthly, since the NSCN(IM) demands impinge upon the territorial integrity of several States in the North-East, it is not possible for the Centre to conduct a dialogue with the Nagaland dissidents without consulting the other State Governments in the region. What I would hope the Prime Minister will do when he replies to us is to specifically give us assurances on these points. DR. NITISH SENGUPTA ( CONTAI ): It cannot be solved without even consulting the State Government of Nagaland. SHRI MANI SHANKAR AIYAR : Yes, he is quite right. They have not even consulted the Government of Nagaland, but I am very keen that they also consult the Governments of Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, and Manipur, who have expressed their deepest reservations about the path being adopted by the Central Government. Yes, now Shri Swami can go and join Shri Vijay Kumar Malhotra in whatever Valhalla they sit in when we are debating important matters in the House. Madam, Shri Vijay Kumar Malhotra’s absence from the House is hardly surprising because I had threatened him that I would answer the totally baseless allegations that he made against Congress Prime Ministers in the past. He held that Congress Prime Ministers had been guilty of corruption whereas all the Ministers of the present Government are lilly-white. What an absurd statement to make? The only thing Indira Gandhi was ever specifically charged with was stealing a chicken in Manipur. That was the level of triviality to which these people had descended. As for Rajiv Gandhi, he has not been charge-sheeted. After he died a martyr to this country, these carrion-eaters of the Treasury Benches have included his name in the charge-sheet saying he is sent up but not in order to be tried. They cannot catch Quattrocchi, they cannot even catch Hinduja who is here in India and for the last twenty years they have been flogging this Bofors carcass and he has the gall to say to us this Prof. Vijay Kumar Malhotra – God knows who made him a professor – that we live in a glass house and he lives in a steel cage. This Government, Madam, contains three Ministers who are charge-sheeted in a court of law and who can be tried only if this Government appoints a judge in the court which is supposed to try them. There is another Minister in this Government who has been hauled up before a Commission of Inquiry, who said that until the report of the Commission of Inquiry, he would not be coming back into the Council of Ministers but has since wormed his way back upon the Treasury Front Benches. There is another Minister in this Government, who is caught up in a scandalous Petrol Pump Scam and the Prime Minister is involved in this entire exercise because he gave a totally bogus ruling which has been challenged in the court. We have, Madam, a Minister in this Government who has actually been charged with murder and it is the State Government belonging to his own Party which has conducted the prosecution in such a completely useless way that that particular charge has had to be withdrawn and they are under orders of the court to file fresh charges. Murder, Petrol Pump, Defence deals, Coffin Gate and he says that they live in a steel cage and we live in a glass house. I am not surprised that he has run away from this House. The fact of the matter is as Shrimati Sonia Gandhi said here yesterday that ‘it is with respect to probity, accountability and transparency, the three issues relating to good governance where the performance of the NDA Government has been "shockingly abysmal". And they had a golden opportunity to prove that no they are not as they are but as they pretend to be when the JPC Report was submitted two months ago. Madam, the Joint Parliamentary Committee’s Report is to be debated in this House but it has already been mentioned in the President’s Address. Kindly look at paragraph 39 of the President’s Address. They have referred to investigations into the recent stock market "scam". What are these inverted commas? After a Joint Parliamentary Committee has unanimously concluded that there is a scam, when the terms of reference of this Parliament to the JPC specifically referred to the scam, what is this insult to Parliament contained in the President’s Address in putting the word, scam into inverted commas. I demand to know from the Treasury benches, what is the meaning of this insult to Parliament that has been included in the President’s Address? Even worse, for two months now, we have been waiting for this Government to pay some respect at least to the principle of ministerial responsibility upon which the whole Parliamentary system works. Madam, I would like to draw attention to paragraph 3.1, page 12 of the JPC Report, which defines the period of the scam. I quote: ‘18 months earlier’ means that the period of scam was from the last quarter of 1999 to the first quarter of 2001. For those 18 months, the NDA Government was in office. The scam started with the NDA Government in office. The scam was exposed with the NDA Government in office. The scam has been investigated, inquired into by the JPC with the NDA Government in office. The Report has been presented with the NDA Government in office and the NDA Government had taken no steps whatsoever to be accountable at the level of Ministers to this country through this Parliament. Madam, the principle of ministerial responsibility, the doctrine of ministerial responsibility was not prepared or written by this JPC. The doctrine of ministerial responsibility was set out in the last JPC Report. There are as many as seven Ministers of the NDA Government who were members of the previous JPC which laid down the doctrine of ministerial responsibility. They are: Shri Jaswant Singh, Shri Yashwant Sinha, Shri George Fernandes, Shri Murasoli Maran, Shri Ram Naik, Shri Digvijay Singh, and Shri Harin Pathak. Seven Ministers, who sat there, said – all this is in Chapter XVI of the previous JPC’s Report – that a Minister is responsible (a) for the work of his Ministry; (b) for all broad policy decisions; (c) for all administrative failures of his Ministry; and (d) for management deficiencies of organisations that report to the Minister. It is all there in Chapter XVI, and this JPC, just reproducing whatever has been said on the doctrine of ministerial responsibility by the previous JPC, has the following sentence at paragraph 13.3, page 310 of the Report. It says and I quote. I need not look down to quote it because it is there in my heart. It says: "Ministerial responsibility for this Report flows from these principles." It is completely clear that the JPC has said that ministerial responsibility has to be fixed. Now, we have a Report here, Madam, where, in 52 paragraphs, the Ministry of Finance is directly indicted. There is not a single dimension of the scam in which there is not a detailed reference to the sins of omission and commission of the Ministry of Finance. This is a Sinhaful scam, not a sinful scam. It is Sinhaful scam. The Minister, who was a Member of the previous JPC, says, ‘what else do you expect from the Opposition but to ask for my resignation?’ It shows the arrogance of the man. I am not asking for his resignation. I am asking him to apply to himself the principle he insisted on applying to the Ministers of that day’s Treasury Benches when he was in the Opposition. It is in 52 paragraphs. In the last JPC Report, there is only one paragraph with about five sub-paragraphs in which reference is made to certain mistakes committed by the Ministry of Finance. Yet, on that basis, these people demanded his head, held up this House and there was chaos here. Today, they are on the Treasury Benches. It is not in a few sub-paragraphs, but in 52 paragraphs through 600 pages that the Ministry of Finance is repeatedly indicted and there is no ministerial responsibility. It is not only the Ministry of Finance but also there is the Department of Company Affairs. The Department of Company Affairs is repeatedly indicted for various mistakes that it has made, for various errors that it has made, which has cost this country and its investors hundreds of thousands of crores. Yet the Minister who was then in-charge, Shri Arun Jaitley, who was not in the Government when the JPC Report was presented, has been, as a reward for being indicted, re-inducted into the Council of Ministers. Then, what about the Prime Minister himself? The Prime Minister is the Minister in-charge of the CBI. The CBI is charged with having registered 72 cases coming out of the previous JPC, of which, 25 have, even a decade later, not yet been chargesheeted. This is the CBI. Out of 72 cases registered, 25 have not been chargesheeted, and of the 47 that have been chargesheeted, only six have been adjudicated to a conclusion. Three of those have resulted in acquittal. It is such an incompetent Department directly run by the Prime Minister. Does the Prime Minister not owe ministerial responsibility to this House? What is even worse is that the epicentres of the scam were two towns, two major cities of India. One was the constituency of the Prime Minister, where City Co-operative Bank, Century Consultants and Cyber space Infosys were located and deeply implicated in the scam, according to the unanimous Report of the JPC. That is in the constituency of the Prime Minister. Indeed even more, the Prime Minister himself inaugurated Cyber space Infosys, which is one of the indicted firms. The other epicentre was in Gujarat, in the constituency of the Deputy Prime Minister, where Madhavpura Mercantile Co-operative Bank is located. The two epicentres of the scam are located respectively in the constituencies of the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister; and the President is not going to say a word about ministerial responsibility. The situation is intolerable. We are told by the President in paragraph 39 that they have produced some legislation and that the Unit Trust of India has been successfully restructured. Why did it have to be successfully restructured? It is because it was not properly structured during the period that Shri Yashwant Sinha was the Minister. Shri Yashwant Sinha has sacked the Chairman of the UTI. It is because, he says, the Chairman kept him in the dark. What does the JPC say? The JPC says that the Finance Ministry did little or nothing to pull the Minister out of the darkness. It is stated in paragraph 17.22. Here we have a Minister who blames everybody. He says the Finance Secretary should be excoriated. He says that the HLCC should be condemned.(HLCC is the High Level Co-ordination Committee on Financial and Capital Market.) He says, that it should be condemned. He says that SEBI should be pulled up. He says that the RBI should be given a sharp talking to. He sacks the Chairman of the UTI. But he says, ‘ I am blameless’. Madam, can there be a Ministry without a Minister? Was that Ministry running without a Minister? Was it on autopilot? This Minister says in the Joint Parliamentary – I am quoting him – and this is included in the Report … (Interruptions) MADAM CHAIRMAN : Shri Mani Shankar Aiyar, we are going to have a full debate on the JPC Report. So, please do not go into all the details. SHRI MANI SHANKAR AIYAR : I have gone into this because it is there in the President’s Address. MADAM CHAIRMAN: You will have to speak in detail in that debate also. SHRI MANI SHANKAR AIYAR : Let me finish this.… (Interruptions) डॉ. रघुवंश प्रसाद सिंह ( वैशाली ):मल्होत्रा जी, आप कहां जा रहे हैं?…( व्यवधान) DR. VIJAY KUMAR MALHOTRA ( SOUTH DELHI ): Madam, a meeting of the Delimitation Commission is also going on at this very moment. … (Interruptions) हमें डलमिटेशन कमीशन की मीटिंग में जाना है।…( व्यवधान) सभापति महोदया : अपनी कांस्टीटयूएंसी को बचाना बहुत जरूरी है। डॉ. रघुवंश प्रसाद सिंह : ये डलमिटेशन में लगे हैं।…( व्यवधान) श्री प्रियरंजन दासमुंशी ( रायगंज ) : यह आपकी सेहत के लिए सुनना भी ठीक नहीं होगा।…( व्यवधान) SHRI MANI SHANKAR AIYAR : Madam, the Minister told the Joint Parliamentary Committee and it is reported in its Report that he was amazed to learn that numerous recommendations of the previous JPC had not been implemented. He said, he could not have imagined that this could be the stateof things. Now, imagining is the job of poets. Finding out what is happening in his own Ministry is the job of a Minister. Does Shri Yashwant Sinha think that being a Minister consists of putting a red light on top of his car and wandering around Rashtrapati Bhawan? There is more to be done. If a Minister is not responsible, if a Minister’s orders are not carried out by the officers and if a Minister cannot get the information that he needs, that Minister is either incompetent * ; and, in the case of Shri Yashwant Sinha, he is both incompetent and .... as a Minister. SHRI KHARABELA SWAIN ( BALASORE ): Sir, can you say the same thing about Dr. Manmohan Singh, who was also the Minister of Finance after 1992? … (Interruptions) SHRI PRIYA RANJAN DASMUNSI : He resigned. SHRI KHARABELA SWAIN : Does that not involve ministerial responsibility? When you were talking about ministerial responsibility, you mentioned about Quattrocchi. It means, this Government is incapable of finding Quattrocchi. Who was the Prime Minister when Quattrocchi did those deeds? Was it not the late Rajiv Gandhi? Was he not responsible for that? … (Interruptions) SHRI MANI SHANKAR AIYAR : Madam, I yielded to him but he is making a speech. With regard to the doctrine of Ministerial responsibility, on the basis of 

* Expunged as ordered by the Chair. what was stated by the JPC, which contradicted Dr. Manmohan Singh’s position, the Prime Minister of today, who was then the Leader of the Opposition, initiated a discussion under rule 193 to discuss the findings of that JPC Report. He spoke here on the 29th December, 1993. I draw the hon. Member’s attention to column 652 of the English version of the proceedings of that day in which the then Leader of the Opposition and now the Prime Minister of India insisted that the Government must accept "moral responsibility" for all that is "rotten" in the system. This JPC Report has revealed over 600 pages all that is rotten in the system. We expect the Prime Minister to live up to his own high standards of yesteryear. He could not then demand the resignation of Dr. Manmohan Singh because Dr. Manmohan Singh resigned even before that Report was placed on the Table of the House. That the country refused to accept his resignation is a separate matter but what a shame it is over here! The successor to Dr. Manmohan Singh, instead of at least tendering his resignation to the Prime Minister says, ‘What do you expect of the Opposition except to ask for my resignation’, and continues. In the Report – and this is really my final word on the subject – on the Mauritius route, there is a paragraph in which not only the Ministry but specifically the Minister is faulted for not having taken diplomatic action. The man is a financial disaster and so you move him out of the Ministry of Finance but where do you put him? To prove that he is a diplomatic disaster, you make him the Minister of External Affairs. : I am not yielding. You have had your say. … (Interruptions) Please take your seat. … (Interruptions) MADAM CHAIRMAN : Shri Kharabela Swain, you can speak and reply. Please take your seat. If he yields, then you can ask. But he is not yielding. Please take your seat. When you have your say you can speak. You can speak on the JPC. … (Interruptions) SHRI KHARABELA SWAIN : All the High Commissioners from Port Louis wanted the Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement not to be scrapped. They wanted a special relationship with Mauritius. … (Interruptions) SHRI MANI SHANKAR AIYAR : Madam, therefore, I am the least surprised that Dr. Vijay Kumar Malhotra is the bird that has fled his steel cage. The glass house is on that side. The steel cage is on this side. This is a Government of hypocrisy and humbug. It is a Government filled with indicted Ministers; it is a Government of moral turpitude; and it is a Government of moral lepers. They have no moral right. … (Interruptions) MADAM CHAIRMAN: Please do not use such words. You cannot say `moral lepers’. SHRI MANI SHANKAR AIYAR : Madam, the word `moral lepers’ comes from the House of Commons where it was accepted as a definition given to Mr. Enoch Powell. In the light of that, I would request you not to press with your ruling regarding `moral lepers’. They are moral lepers worse than Enoch Powell. Therefore, while we thank the hon. President for his gracious address, we express our regret that the concept of moral ministerial responsibility has got abolished from the ranks of the Treasury Benches although it is these Treasury Benches which, along with us, stated in 1993, a decade ago, that in our scheme of constitutional jurisprudence, Ministers are responsible to the country through Parliament. That is how the parliamentary system works. Madam, with these few words, I conclude my speech. योगी आदित्यनाथ ( गोरखपुर ) : सभापति महोदया, महामहिम राष्ट्रपति के दोनों सदनों में समवेत अभिभाषण पर माननीय सदस्य डॉ. विजय कुमार मल्होत्रा के धन्यवाद प्रस्ताव पर बोलने के लिए मैं खड़ा हुआ हूं। किसी भी राष्ट्र को एकता और अखंडता के सूत्र में बांधने के लिए कुछ बातें महत्वपूर्ण होती हैं। हमारे देश की संस्कृति विश्व की प्राचीनतम संस्कृतियों में से एक है। अपनी इस प्राचीन संस्कृति और इसकी परम्पराओं का सम्मान करते हुए प्राचीन काल से ही सम्पूर्ण राष्ट्र को एकता और अखंडता के सूत्र में बांधने के लिए, एकाग्रता के सूत्र में बांधने के लिए हमारे महापुरुषों ने चार बातें सूत्र के रूप में हमें दी थीं। वे चार बाते निम्न प्रकार से हैं--शिक्षा, सुरक्षा, अर्थव्यवस्था और उस राष्ट्र के नागरिकों के अंदर जन सेवा की भावना। मुझे बताते हुए प्रसन्नता हो रही है कि पिछले पांच वर्षों में देश को विकसित राष्ट्रों की क्षेणी में पहुंचाने के लिए जो प्रयास हुए हैं, महामहिम राष्ट्रपति जी के अभिभाषण में वे स्पष्टत: झलकते हैं। अगर कहा जाये कि महामहिम राष्ट्रपति जी का अभिभाषण सरकार की उपलब्धियों और भविष्य की योजनाओं का एक दस्तावेज है तो मैं समझता हूं कि इसमें कोई अतिश्योक्ति नहीं हो सकती। पिछले पांच वर्षों में सरकार ने बहुत कुछ किया है। पांच वर्षों के कार्य की पिछले पचास वर्षो के कार्य से तुलना की जाए तो पचास वर्ष का कार्य इन पांच वर्ष के विकास कार्य के आगे कहीं भी नहीं ठहरता है और इसी सबको लेकर आज यहां पर मैं विजय कुमार मल्होत्रा जी के प्रस्ताव के समर्थन में खड़ा हुआ हूं। माननीय प्रधान मंत्री जी ने स्वतंत्रता दिवस के अवसर पर संकल्पना २०२० हम सबके सामने रखा था। कोई भी राष्ट्र जब तक अपना कोई लक्ष्य तय नहीं करता तब तक उस लक्ष्य तक पहुंचने की कल्पना ही कैसे की जा सकती है और यह संकल्पना जिसे महामहिम राष्ट्रपति जी ने अपने भाषण में ही स्पष्ट व्यक्त की है कि सन् २०२० में भारत विश्व के विकसित राष्ट्रों की श्रेणी में होगा, भारत विश्व की एक महाशक्ति के रूप में खड़ा होगा। पूरे भाषण में पिछले पांच वर्षों के कार्य में वह स्पष्ट झलकता है। मैं एक-एक करके कुछ महत्वपूर्ण क्षेत्रों में जो कार्य इस सरकार ने किए हैं और जिनका उल्लेख महामहिम राष्ट्रपति जी ने अपने भाषण में किया है तथा शिक्षा के क्षेत्र में पहली बार प्राथमिक शिक्षा को मौलिक अधिकारों की श्रेणी में लाकर इस देश के प्रत्येक नागरिक को न: शुल्क शिक्षा की व्यवस्था वर्तमान सरकार ने की है क्योंकि कोई भी राष्ट्र अगर विकास की उन बुलंदियों को छूना चाहता है तो वहां के नागरिकों का शक्षित होना आवश्यक है। हमारे यहां श्रीमद्भगवद्गीता में भी शिक्षा को ही पवित्र माना गया है। श्रीमद्भगवद्गीता कहती है : "न हि ज्ञानेन सद्ृश्यम् पवित्रम् न हि विज्ञते"। अर्थात् संसार में ज्ञान से बढ़कर पवित्र और कुछ भी नहीं है और उस ज्ञान रूपी पवित्रता को लाने का कार्य पहली बार, पिछले पचास वर्षों तक जिसका अभाव रहा है, वह कार्य पहली बार इस सरकार ने शिक्षा को प्राथमिक शिक्षा को मौलिक अधिकारों में रखकर ६ वर्ष से १४ वर्ष तक की आयु के प्रत्येक बच्चे को न: शुल्क शिक्षा देने का संकल्प किया है। यहीं नहीं, भारतीय मूल की उस अंतरिक्ष यात्री के प्रति अपनी श्रद्धांजलि व्यक्त करते हुए जिससे नौजवानों को उससे कुछ प्रेरणा प्राप्त हो सके, अपने जो भी उपग्रह हैं, वह कल्पना चावला के नाम से रखने का संकल्प किया है तो उससे निश्चित ही नौजवानों को उस कार्य में करने के लिए प्रेरित करके भारतीय संस्कृति के गौरव को पुनस्र्थापित करने का काम पहली बार हुआ है वर्ना कोई भी राष्ट्र एकता और अखंडता के सूत्र के बगैर अपनी संस्कृति को बचाए नहीं रह सकता है लेकिन पहली बार अपने महापुरुषों के प्रति सच्ची श्रद्धांजलि और आस्था रखते हुए वर्तमान सरकार ने यह किया है। चाहे उन तीर्थस्थलों के विकास के लिए जो हमारे राष्ट्र की एकता के प्रतीक हैं और चाहे एनसीईआरटी की उन पुस्तकों में जहां पर महापुरुषों को अपमानजनक शब्दों से नवाजा गया था, उनमें संशोधन करके अपने महापुरुषों के प्रति सम्मानजनक टिप्पणियों को रखकर और उनको पाठयक्रम में शामिल कराने का कार्य किया गया है। कभी-कभी आश्चर्य होता है कि हम राम जन्मभूमि मन्दिर के विवाद में बार-बार न्यायालय की दुहाई देते हैं लेकिन एनसीईआरटी के उन संशोधनों में माननीय उच्चतम न्यायालय ने सरकार के उन संशोधनों को, उन सुझावों से सहमति व्यक्त करते हुए जायज ठहराया था। 16.00 hrs. 

लेकिन माननीय उच्चतम न्यायालय की अवहेलना कौन कर रहा है,आज यह सबके सामने है। कई राज्य सरकारों ने कहा है कि हम इस बात को नहीं मानेंगे। इस प्रकार की बातें इससे पहले भी हुई हैं। इसी प्रकार से जब विश्वविद्यालय अनुदान आयोग की स्वर्ण जयंती वर्ष में विश्वविद्यालय आयोग गठित करने का सुझाव देना, उसको पुनर्गठित करना और विश्वविद्यालय की शिक्षा में आमूलचूल परिवर्तन करने का जो संकल्प लिया गया है, यह निश्चित ही एक शुभ लक्षण है। साथ ही साथ पूरे देश के १४ क्षेत्रीय इंजीनियरिंग कालेजों को आईआईटी के समक्ष रखने का जो प्रस्ताव शिक्षा के क्षेत्र में क्रांतिकारी परिवर्तन के रूप में रखा है, वह अभिनंदनीय है। यही नहीं, सुरक्षा के क्षेत्र में भी वर्तमान सरकार ने कार्य किया है। महामहिम राष्ट्रपति जी ने अपने अभिभाषण में उस बात को रखा है। आज हमारा राष्ट्र बाहय और आंतरिक खतरों से जूझ रहा है। दोनों खतरों से जूझने के लिए जिस प्रकार के कार्यक्रम चलने चाहिए थे, आज तक उनका अभाव था। पहली बार भारत सरकार ने वह कार्य किया है कि आंतरिक सुरक्षा के लिए वभिन्न राज्यों की पुलिस के आधुनिकीकरण के लिए एक हजार करोड़ रुपए प्रति वर्ष राज्य सरकारों को दने की व्यवस्था की है। आंतरिक शांति के लिए पहले अक्सर ऐसा होता था कि हम सेना को बुलाते थे। सेना का बार-बार आंतरिक मामलों में हस्तक्षेप करना कतई राष्ट्रहित में नहीं है। लेकिन पुलिस के आधुनिकीकरण के लिए पहली बार प्रयास हुआ, जिससे आंतरिक रूप से शांति बनाए रखी जा सके और सभी नागरिक एकजुट होकर रहें। यही नहीं देश के १३ राज्यों में बहुउद्देशीय पहचान पत्र देने की व्यवस्था भी पहली बार हुई है। महोदया, जम्मू-कश्मीर राज्य में पहली बार शांतिपूर्ण तरीके से चुनाव हुए हैं। जिस गुजरात के बारे में तमाम प्रकार की आशंकाएं न केवल वभिन्न राजीनतिक दलों के द्वारा और चुनाव आयोग के द्वारा व्यक्त की जा रही थीं, वहां भी शांतिपूर्ण तरीके से चुनाव सम्पन्न हुए हैं। गुजरात की जनता ने ऐतिहासिक विजय इस परम्परागत भारतीय संस्कृति में अपनी आस्था व्यक्त करते हुए और राष्ट्रवादी शक्तियों को मजबूत करते हुए यह संदेश भी दे दिया है कि आने वाले समय में हम क्या करने जा रहे हैं। इसी तरह हमने बाहय सुरक्षा के लिए भी कार्य किया है। आंतिरक सुरक्षा के बारे में मैं एक और निवेदन करना चाहूंगा। मैं जिस क्षेत्र से चुनकर आता हूं, वह क्षेत्र भारत और नेपाल से जुड़ा हुआ है। हर व्यक्ति जानता है कि पिछले २५-३० वर्षों में सीमावर्ती क्षेत्रों में एक वर्ग विशेष का जमावड़ा, उनके कुछ मदरसों की अचानक बढ़ती हुई संख्या, वहां पर एक वर्ग विशेष के धर्म स्थानों की बढ़ती हुई संख्या एक खतरे की घंटी थी। मैं जानता हूं पिछले दो सालों में ही भारत-नेपाल सीमा पर ऐसी गतवधियां लगातार चल रही हैं। मैंने पिछले छ: महीने के आंकड़े उन क्षेत्रों के लिए हैं। गोरखपुर, महाराजगंज, देवरिया, कुशीनगर, बस्ती, सिद्धार्थ नगर और संत कबीर नगर, इन सात जनपदों के आंकड़े मैंने लिए थे कि पिछले छ: महीनों में इन क्षेत्रों में १५० से अधिक नाबालिग बालिकाओं के साथ बलात्कार की घटनाएं घटित हुई हैं। ये सारी की सारी घटनाएं अल्पसंख्यक युवकों के द्वारा की गई थीं। यही नहीं, उन क्षेत्रों में…( व्यवधान) वहां चाहे किसी की भी सरकार हो, लेकिन वहां ये घटनाएं घटित हो रही हैं। श्री सुन्दर लाल तिवारी ( रीवा ) : मैं नम्र निवेदन करना चाहता हूं।…( व्यवधान) MADAM CHAIRMAN : He is not yielding. SHRI MANI SHANKAR AIYAR : Madam Chairman, he is communalising criminality. This attempt at pretending that rapists are only Muslims, which is what he is saying, is utterly unacceptable to us. … (Interruptions) योगी आदित्यनाथ :जो घटनाएं घटित हुए हैं, उनको झुठलाया नहीं जा सकता। जो सच्चाई है, क्या वह भी हम यहां नहीं रख सकते…( व्यवधान) आपका जब समय आए, तब आप अपनी बात कहना। SHRI MANI SHANKAR AIYAR : In that case, would he please tell us. देश भर में जो बलात्कार की घटनाएं होती हैं, उसमें अन्य धर्मों के जुड़े हुए लोग क्या नहीं होते…( व्यवधान) योगी आदित्यनाथ : वहां पर मदरसों की संख्या बढ़ी है। इस बारे में मैं नहीं कहता, पश्चिम बंगाल के मुख्य मंत्री भी इस बात को कहते हैं।…( व्यवधान) श्री सुन्दर लाल तिवारी :यह मामला पहले भी यहां आया था, तब मंत्री जी ने कहा था कि ऐसा कुछ नहीं है।…( व्यवधान) SHRI MANI SHANKAR AIYAR : Why is he communalising criminality? … (Interruptions) MADAM CHAIRMAN: Please do not disturb him. You can reply later. Yogi Aditya Nath, please conclude now. योगी आदित्यनाथ :महोदया, पिछले ६ महीने में वहां पर गौ-कशी की घटनाओं में बढ़ोत्तरी हुई है।…( व्यवधान) SHRI MANI SHANKAR AIYAR : Madam, let him authenticate his allegations. It is very very wrong that after the Home Minister’s address in which he said that nobody should raise this in the House, he is repeating his allegations. He should not be permitted to make this statement unless he authenticates it. योगी आदित्यनाथ :आप लोग जो कहते हैं क्या वही सही है? श्री सुन्दर लाल तिवारी : इसका मतलब यह तो नहीं है कि जो भी आपके मन में आयेगा, आप वही बोलते जाएंगे। योगी आदित्यनाथ : आप परेशान क्यों हो रहे हैं। श्री सुन्दर लाल तिवारी : परेशानी की क्या बात है। योगी आदित्यनाथ : आप हमें बोलने नहीं देंगे तो हम भी आपको बोलने नहीं देंगे। सभापति महोदया : इनका ऑब्जेक्शन है कि आप बोल रहे हैं कि पूरा बलात्कार एक ही कम्युनिटी के लोगों द्वारा हो रहा है, वह ठीक नहीं है। योगी आदित्यनाथ : जो घटनाएं हो रही हैं, मैं उन्हीं के बारे में बोल रहा हूं। श्री मणि शंकर अय्यर : इस प्रकार की बातें सुनने के लिए हम तैयार नहीं हैं। साम्प्रदायिकता के लिए इस सदन में कोई जगह नहीं है। हम सदन की मर्यादा के पक्ष में बोल रहे हैं।…( व्यवधान)हर चीज में ये साम्प्रदायिकता लाते हैं। ऐसे संकीर्ण मन के लोगों के लिए इस सदन में कोई स्थान नहीं है।…( व्यवधान) श्री सुन्दर लाल तिवारी :उत्तर प्रदेश में सरकार आपकी है, आप कार्यवाही क्यों नहीं करवाते हैं। MADAM CHAIRMAN: Your own Minister refused to have this question raised in the House. Why are you raising it? आपके होम-मनिस्टर ने मना किया है…( व्यवधान)उसको आप क्यों उठा रहे हैं। आप आगे बढि़ये। श्री सुन्दर लाल तिवारी : ये देश को बर्बाद करने में लगे हैं। ये साम्प्रदायिक लोग देश में साम्प्रदायिक वोटों की राजनीति करने में लगे हुए हैं।…( व्यवधान)देश में आग लगाने का काम कर रहे हैं।…( व्यवधान)यूपी में आपकी सरकार है।…( व्यवधान) श्री श्याम बिहारी मिश्र :तिवारी जी, अगर हमारी सरकार है तो क्या हम सही बात नहीं कहेंगे।…( व्यवधान) MADAM CHAIRMAN: Will you please sit down? योगी आदित्यनाथ :तिवारी जी, आप सुनने की कोशिश कीजिए। आप परेशान क्यों हो रहे हैं। श्री सुन्दर लाल तिवारी : आप जो भी मन में आयेगा, क्या वही बोलते रहेंगे? MADAM CHAIRMAN: The Home Minister refused to have this question raised in the House. I do not think you should now raise this. SHRI MANI SHANKAR AIYAR : Madam, in total protest of his continuing to flout your orders and going on saying these things, I walk out of the House. 16.08 hrs. 

(At this stage, Shri Mani Shankar Aiyar left the House.) योगी आदित्यनाथ :आप जाइये। बहुत सुंदर। पहले चले जाते तो यह सब कुछ न होता। सभापति महोदया : आप आगे बढि़ये, बार-बार एक ही बात मत बोलिये। योगी आदित्यनाथ : कहीं नौकरी करनी होगी, कहीं लिखकर देना होगा। सभापति महोदया : कोई एमपी नौकरी नहीं करता है, सब यहीं बैठते हैं। आप आगे बढि़ये। योगी आदित्यनाथ : महोदया, मैं बोल रहा था कि जो घटनाएं घटित हुई हैं, उनके बारे में हम लोगों ने मांग की थी कि स्थानीय पुलिस सीमावर्ती क्षेत्रों की सुरक्षा नहीं कर सकती है। भारत नेपाल के राजनैतिक संबंध उस तरह के नहीं हैं। भारत-नेपाल सांस्कृतिक, धार्मिक, राजनैतिक और सामाजिक रूप से बंधे हुए हैं। इस कारण भारत और नेपाल की सीमा खुली हुई है। उसका दुरूपयोग माफिया संगठन, एक वर्ग विशेष के लोग, कुछ राजनैतिक दलों के लोग बराबर करते थे। मैं केन्द्रीय गृह मंत्री जी को बधाई देना चाहता हूं कि पहली बार भारत-नेपाल सीमा पर स्पेशल-सर्विस ब्यूरो को लगाकर पूरा भारत-नेपाल सीमा को सुरक्षित करने का प्रयास हुआ है। जैसा वहां हुआ है वैसा ही प्रत्येक सीमावर्ती क्षेत्र में होना चाहिए और इस बात की जांच होनी चाहिए कि क्या कारण है कि एक वर्ग-विशेष का जमावड़ा वहां होता जा रहा है। सभापति महोदया : आपके १५ मिनट खत्म हो चुके हैं। अभी आपकी पार्टी के बहुत स्पीकर्स हैं। आप चाहते हैं तो पूरा टाइम ले सकते हैं लेकिन आगे वाले स्पीकर के लिए टाइम नहीं बचेगा। योगी आदित्यनाथ : वहां पर जो घटनायें घटित हुई हैं, उनको ध्यान में रखकर सीमवर्ती क्षेत्र में एसएसबी को लगाकर सुरक्षा बढ़ाने का प्रयास हुआ है। आप जानते हैं, पहले इस प्रकार से सीमावर्ती क्षेत्रों में घुसपैठ को रोकने का प्रयास नहीं हुआ था। यह व्यवस्था सभी सीमावर्ती क्षेत्रों में होनी चाहिए। इसी बात को ध्यान में रखकर उत्तर प्रदेश सरकार द्वारा भारत-नेपाल सीमावर्ती क्षेत्रों के लिए धर्मस्थल विधेयक लाया गया था, लेकिन एक वर्ग विशेष के द्वारा उस विधेयक का विरोध किया गया। वह विधेयक प्रदेश के लिए था कि कोई भी बिना अनुशासन की आज्ञा के मंदिर-मस्जिद-गुरुद्वारा-चर्चा आदि का निर्माण नहीं करेगा। उसका परिणाम यह हुआ कि वहां पर जो घटनायें घटित हुई हैं, उससे उस क्षेत्र में आक्रोश है। इतना ही नहीं, मैं कहना चाहता हूं कि भारत-चीन के क्षेत्र आपस में मिलते हैं, बंगलादेश से मिलते हैं, बर्मा से मिलते हैं और पाकिस्तान से मिलते हैं - इन सभी सीमावर्ती क्षेत्रों में इस प्रकार की व्यवस्था होनी चाहिए। यदि इसका विरोध किसी एक वर्ग के द्वारा किया जाता है, तो निश्चित ही राष्ट्र के लिए एक अच्छा संकेत नहीं है। इस बारे में सरकार को विचार करना चाहिए। १६.११ hrs.(Dr. Laxminarayan Pandeya in the Chair) 

महोदय, इसके साथ ही बाहय सुरक्षा के क्षेत्र में भी सरकार ने काम किया है। बाहय सुरक्षा के क्षेत्र में अग्नि-I का सफल परीक्षण किया गया है। एरिया वैपन सिस्टम रूस के साथ सुपर सोनिक मिसाइल का भी सफल परीक्षण किया गया। राष्ट्र की बाहय सुरक्षा को ध्यान में रखते हुए एक महत्वपूर्ण कार्य किया गया है। यही नहीं, १५-२० वर्षों से देश में बंगलादेशी घुसपैठ की आवाज आ रही थी कि वे किस प्रकार से पूरे देश में फैलकर जनसंख्या के साथ-साथ कानून-व्यवस्था के लिए भी एक समस्या खड़ी कर रहे हैं। इस दिशा में पहली बार भारत सरकार ने बंगलादेशी घुसपैठियों को खदेड़ने का प्रयास किया है। यह प्रयास अभिनन्दनीय है। आधिकारिक तौर पर उनकी संख्या डेढ़ करोड़ स्वीकार की गई है, जबकि एक सर्वे के अनुसार उनकी जनसख्या ढ़ाई करोड़ के करीब है। इन लोगों की वजह से पूर्वोत्तर राज्यों, जैसे पश्चिमी बंगाल और बिहार आदि में कानून व्यवस्था की स्थिति खराब हो गई है। अभी दो साल पहले लालकिले पर हमला किया गया था। उसके बाद बंगलादेशी घुसपैठियों को पुलिस ने पकड़ा था, जो वहां झुग्गी-झौपड़ी में रहते थे, लेकिन पुलिस पर हमला कर दिया गया। आईएसआई गतवधियों में लिप्त रहने के साथ-साथ ये राष्ट्र विरोधी गतवधियों में भी सक्रिय हैं। सभापति महोदय : आदित्यनाथ जी, अब आप अपनी बात समाप्त करिए। समय कम है, ऐसी स्थिति में आपके अन्य साथियों को समय नहीं मिलेगा। योगी आदित्यनाथ : महोदय, यही नहीं, इन बंगलादेशी घुसपैठियों ने अलग मुस्लिम लैंड की भी मांग की है, जिससे राष्ट्र की एकता और अखण्डता के लिए भी खतरा पैदा हो गया है। बिहार राज्य में पुर्णिया, किशनगंज, अररिया, कटिहार, जोगीबन, सहरसा और सुपौल आदि क्षेत्र में फैले हुए हैं। …( व्यवधान) श्री प्रियरंजन दासमुंशी :बंगला देश के बॉर्डर क्रॉसिंग की घटना के दौरान हिन्दू भी आए और मुसलमान भी आए। उन घुसपैठियों के बारे में आपकी क्या राय है? क्या हिन्दू और मुसलमान दोनों घुसपैठिए हैं? आप यह एक्सपोज कर दीजिए। इससे हमें मदद मिलेगी।…( व्यवधान)हमारे डिस्टि्रक्ट में सात-आठ हिन्दू परिवारों के आने पर उन्हें गोली से मार दिया। इस बारे में आपकी क्या राय है? योगी आदित्यनाथ : पश्चिम बंगाल के मुशिर्दाबाद और उत्तरी दिनाजपुर बंगलादेशी घुसपैठियों के कारण मुस्लिम बहुल इलाके हो चुके हैं। असम की स्थिति अत्यन्त विस्फोटक है। कांग्रेस के लोगों ने असम के १२५ विधान सभा क्षेत्रों में से ३६ विधान सभा क्षेत्रों में बंगलादेशी घुसपैठियों के राशन कार्ड बना दिए हैं और वह इन जगहों में निर्णायक स्थिति में हैं। वे तय करते हैं कि वहां कौन विधायक बनेगा। इनके कारण नॉर्थ ईस्ट के असम सहित त्रिपुरा, मणिपुर, मेघालय, नागालैंड, अरुणाचल प्रदेश, मिजोराम आदि में पिछले दस वर्षों में जनसंख्या १९ प्रतिशत से लेकर ३१ प्रतिशत तक बढी यानी जनसंख्या की बढ़ोत्तरी अपने आप यह बताती है कि देश के अन्य क्षेत्रों में जहां जनसंख्या में १० से लेकर १९ प्रतिशत तक की बढ़ोत्तरी हुई है वहीं इन क्षेत्रों में १९ से लेकर ३१ प्रतिशत की बढ़ोत्तरी हुई है। इन बंगलादेशी घुसपैठियों के कारण पूरे देश में २० लोक सभा क्षेत्र और १२५ विधान सभा क्षेत्र प्रभावित हो रहे हैं जो चिन्ता का विषय है। श्री कांतिलाल भूरिया ( झाबुआ ): अब केन्द्रीय सरकार को भी मुसलमानों से खतरा हो गया है। …( व्यवधान) MR. CHAIRMAN : Shri Bhuria, please do not disturb him. … (Interruptions) श्री सुन्दर लाल तिवारी :यह घोर आपत्तिजनक बात कह रहे हैं। देश के राष्ट्रपति मुसलमान हैं और माननीय सदस्य अभिभाषण के पक्ष में बोल रहे हैं लेकिन यह सरे -आम मुसलमानों के खिलाफ बोल रहे हैं। यह कहां तक उचित है? MR. CHAIRMAN: He is not yielding. I am not allowing you. … (Interruptions) सभापति महोदय: मैं आपको एलाऊ नहीं करूंगा। जब आपका बोलने का समय आएगा, उस समय अपनी बात कहना। ...( व्यवधान) सभापति महोदय: भूरिया जी और तिवारी जी की बात रिकॉर्ड में नहीं जाएगी। केवल योगी आदित्यनाथ की बात रिकॉर्ड में जाएगी। ...( व्यवधान)। MR. CHAIRMAN: Nothing except what Yogi Aditya Nath is saying will go on record. (Interruptions) * 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

* Not Recorded. योगी आदित्यनाथ :सभापति महोदय, हमारे देश में अवैध रूप से लाखों बांगलादेशी आ रहे हैं। मैं कांग्रेस की चिन्ता से अच्छी तरह से अवगत हूं। जब इनकी नेता विदेश से आयी हैं तो इसमें कोई सदेह नहीं कि बांगला देश भी अपना नेता इन्हें दे सकतो है।…( व्यवधान) SHRI PRIYA RANJAN DASMUNSI : Sir, I take strong exception to this. This Parliament makes laws of the land… (Interruptions). Panditji was born in Pakistan and I was born in Bangladesh… (Interruptions). What is he talking? (Interruptions) * 

सभापति महोदय : भूरिया जी, आप बैठिये। मैं आपको अलाऊ नहीं कर रहा हूं। Nothing will go on record. (Interruptions) * 

सभापति महोदय : तिवारी जी, आप कृपया बैठिये, आपकी पार्टी के माननीय सदस्य बोलने वाले हैं। योगी आदित्यनाथ जी, मैंने आपसे बार-बार निवेदन किया है कि आप समाप्त कीजिये। आपकी पार्टी के लोगों के नाम हैं, वे नहीं बोल पायेंगे। योगी आदित्यनाथ : सभापति जी, पिछले १५ मिनट से मुझे ये लोग बोलने नहीं दे रहे हैं। सभापति महोदय : आपको आधा घंटा हो गया है। You come to the point. योगी आदित्यनाथ :सभापति जी, ये कांग्रेस के लोग हैं जिन्होंने कल भारतीय संस्कृति पर प्रश्नचिन्ह लगाया था। इन लोगों द्वारा बार-बार कहा जा रहा है और कल भी इनके एक माननीय सदस्य ने देश के धर्माचार्यों के बारे में प्रश्नचिन्ह लगाया था…( व्यवधान) श्री सुन्दर लाल तिवारी :सभापति महोदय, यह बात गलत है। MR. CHAIRMAN: It will not go on record. आप कुछ भी बोलते रहिये, कुछ भी रिकॉर्ड पर नहीं जायेगा। (Interruptions) * 

MR. CHAIRMAN: Mr. Adityanath, please come to the point. You do not reply to them. ...( व्यवधान) * Not Recorded 

MR. CHAIRMAN: Shri Ahamed, please sit down. Nothing will go on record. (Interruptions)* योगी आदित्यनाथ :सभापति महोदय, इन लोगों के अंदर सम्मान की भावना नहीं क्योंकि इनका पोप वैटिकन सिटी में रहता है। (Interruptions) * योगी आदित्यनाथ : देश के संतों के प्रति इन लोगों का क्या सम्मान होगा? सभापति महोदय : मैं आपसे बार बार कह रहा हूं कि आप समाप्त कीजिये। योगी आदित्यनाथ : सभापति महोदय, यही नहीं, हमारे जितने गोत्र हैं, वे ऋषि-मुनि के नाम पर रखे गये हैं लेकिन कांग्रेसी अपने नाम के पीछे नहीं लगाते। मैं जानना चाहता हूं कि बिना गोत्र के ..…( व्यवधान) सभापति महोदय : उन्हें जवाब देने की जरूरत नहीं, आप पांइट पर आइये। योगी आदित्यनाथ : मैं जानना चाहता हूं कि जिस तरह से कल इन लोगों ने देश के धर्माचार्यों पर प्रश्नचिन्ह लगाया था, आने वाले समय में महर्षि बाल्मीकि, गुरु वशिष्ठ, गुरु विश्वामित्र, वेद व्यास पर प्रश्नचिन्ह लगाया जायेगा। इन लोगों से इससे ज्यादा क्या अपेक्षा की जा सकती है। ये लोग देश को बांटने के लिये जिम्मेदार हैं…( व्यवधान)इन लोगों की मानसिकता हमेशा गुलामी की रही है, इसलिये इन लोगों से क्या अपेक्षा की जा सकती है कि ये राष्ट्र के हित के बारे में सोच सकें? सभापति महोदय : आप बैठिये, मैं श्री पी.एच. पांडियन को बुला रहा हूं। योगी आदित्यनाथ : सभापति महोदय, मुझे केवल दो बातें और कहनी है, ये लोग मुझे बोलने नहीं दे रहे हैं।…( व्यवधान) सभापति महोदय : भूरिया जी, आप बैठिये, यह खत्म कर रहे हैं, अब आप क्यों टाइम ले रहे हैं। योगी आदित्यनाथ : मैं कहना चाहता हूं कि अयोध्या के बारे में महामहिम राष्ट्रपति जी ने कहा है, अयोध्या के बारे में ऐसी कौन सी बुरी बात राष्ट्रपति जी ने कही है। उन्होंने कहा है कि न्यायालय से इस बात का आग्रह किया गया था कि जल्दी से जल्दी इस मामले का निस्तारण होना चाहिए और उस पर विरोध किया गया। यहां जब पहले ही दिन सत्ता पक्ष इस बात के लिए तैयार हो गया था कि इस मामले पर बहस हो जाए तो ये लोग भाग गये थे। क्योंकि ये लोग देश के मुसलमानों को केवल वोट बैंक तक ही सीमित रखना चाहते हैं और अयोध्या के नाम पर बार-बार हिंदुओं की भावनाओं को भड़काकर इस देश में 

* Not Recorded 

हिन्दुओं की भावनाओं और आस्थाओं पर कुठाराघात करने का प्रयास इनके द्वारा किया जाता है।…( व्यवधान) SHRI PRIYA RANJAN DASMUNSI : Sir, I take objection to this. He is insulting the hon. Speaker. The hon. Speaker decided to debate the Ayodha issue tomorrow and we agreed to it. I would like to put this on record. MR. CHAIRMAN : I have noted it. If there is anything objectionable, then I will see to it. योगी आदित्यनाथ :सभापति महोदय, १९४९ में जब रामलला प्रकट हुए थे, उस समय देश के प्रधान मंत्री कौन थे और उत्तर प्रदेश का मुख्य मंत्री कौन था। उस समय देश के प्रधान मंत्री पंडित जवाहर लाल नेहरू थे और उत्तर प्रदेश के मुख्य मंत्री श्री गोविंद वल्लभ पंत थे। १९८६ में जब राम जन्मभूमि का ताला खुला था, उस समय स्वर्गीय राजीव गांधी देश के प्रधान मंत्री थे और उत्तर प्रदेश के मुख्य मंत्री श्री वीर बहादुर सिंह जी थे। सभापति महोदय : आप समाप्त कीजिए। योगी आदित्यनाथ : यही नहीं १९८९ में जब शिलान्यास हुआ था, उस समय स्वर्गीय राजीव गांधी देश के प्रधान मंत्री थे और श्री एन.डी.तिवारी उत्तर प्रदेश के मुख्य मंत्री थे। १९९२ में जब गुलामी का प्रतीक ढांचा तोड़ गया था, उस समय देश के प्रधान मंत्री श्री नरसिंहराव जी थे, जो कांग्रेसी ही थे। ये लोग उस पर क्यों भाग जाते हैं।…( व्यवधान)ये लोग हिंदुओं को साम्प्रदायिक कहते हैं, जो इस देश के राष्ट्रीय तत्व हैं।…( व्यवधान) सभापति महोदय : योगी आदित्यनाथ जी, अब आप समाप्त कीजिए। मैंने आपको इतनी बार कह दिया है। अब मुझे माननीय सदस्य पांडियन साहब को बुलाना पड़ेगा और आपको बैठना पड़ेगा। You are not co-operating with me. योगी आदित्यनाथ :यदि उस तरफ से टोका-टाकी न हो तो मैं दस मिनट बोलकर अपनी बात समाप्त कर दूंगा। १९८९ में कांग्रेस ने अपना चुनाव प्रचार अभियान अयोध्या से क्यों शुरू किया था। अगर अयोध्या…( व्यवधान) MR.CHAIRMAN: This is not the proper way. This is too much.मैं आग्रह कर रहा हूं मि. पांडियन अब आप बोलिये। आप मुझे कोऑपरेट नहीं कर रहे हैं, यह कोई तरीका नहीं है। योगी आदित्यनाथ : यह तय हो चुका है कि जो विवादित जमीन है, वहां लेजर रेज से परीक्षण किया गया है, उसमें यह साबित हुआ है और दुनिया को मालूम हो गया है कि वहां पर मंदिर है। आने वाले समय में अगर हिंदू भावनाओं को ठेस पहुंचाई जाती रहेगी तो हम देश की प्रत्येक प्राचीन मस्जिद की जांच लेजर रेज से करायेंगे और उनकी खुदाई करायेंगे और कहेंगे कि ये हमारे मंदिरों को तोड़कर बनाई गई हैं। इसलिए आज आवश्यक है कि देश की संसद में राम जन्मभूमि निर्माण का विधेयक लाया जाया चाहिए, गोहत्या पर प्रतिबंध का विधेयक लाया जाना चाहिए।…( व्यवधान) MR.CHAIRMAN: I am requesting you but you are not obeying the Chair. I am requesting you to please conclude. This is not the way. You are not co-operating with the Chair. श्री सुरेश रामराव जाधव ( परभनी ) : सभापति महोदय, इन्हें अपना भाषण खत्म कर लेने दीजिए। MR.CHAIRMAN: I am not giving any further time to you.मैंने उनसे बार-बार आग्रह किया है, लेकिन वह मुझे कोऑपरेट नहीं कर रहे हैं। वह चेयर की बात नहीं मान रहे हैं। He is not co-operating with the Chair 

 

 

 

 

 

.…( व्यवधान)योगी आदित्यनाथ: सभापति महोदय, मैं अपनी बात कैसे कहता, मुझे डिस्टर्ब किया गया है।…( व्यवधान) श्री मोहन रावले ( मुम्बई दक्षिण मध्य ) :सर, ये लोग इनका समय लेते रहे और बीच-बीच में इन्हें डिस्टर्ब करते रहे। …( व्यवधान) MR. CHAIRMAN : I know that, Shri Rawale. But he is not cooperating with me. He has taken more than 32 minutes. योगी आदित्यनाथ :सभापति जी, मेरे भाषण के बीच में बार-बार व्यवधान उत्पन्न किया गया है।…( व्यवधान) सभापति महोदय : मैं आपसे आसन की तरफ से कहता हूं कि आप समाप्त करिए। ...( व्यवधान) योगी आदित्यनाथ : सभापति महोदय, पांच करोड़ लोगों को रोजगार देंगे। …( व्यवधान) सभापति महोदय : मैं आपसे आसन की तरफ से कह रहा हूं कि अब आप बैठ जाएं। ...( व्यवधान) योगी आदित्यनाथ : सभापति महोदय, मैं इन्हीं शब्दों के साथ, राष्ट्रपति जी के अभिभाषण पर डॉ.विजय कुमार मल्होत्रा जी द्वारा जो धन्यवाद प्रस्ताव सदन में प्रस्तुत किया गया है, मैं उसका समर्थन करते हुए एक बार सामने बैठे हुए अपने साथियों से कहना चाहता हूं कि कम से कम संस्कृति के साथ द्रोह न करें क्योंकि संस्कृति के साथ किया गया द्रोह राष्ट्र के साथ द्रोह करने के समान है।…( व्यवधान) सभापति महोदय : श्री योगी आदित्यनाथ जी, अब आपका भाषण रिकार्ड पर नहीं जा रहा है। श्री पी.एच.पांडियन। ...( व्यवधान)* 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

* Not Recorded. SHRI P.H. PANDIAN ( TIRUNELVELI ): Mr. Chairman, I, on behalf of my Party, participate in the discussion on the Motion of Thanks to the President for his Address at Central Hall on 17th February 2003. For the last four or five occasions when the hon. President delivered his Address, I have given amendments on all the occasions. But you know the fate of amendments after the speeches and whether they are carried or negatived, we do not take them seriously. This time also I have given as many as 18 amendments pointing out the various failures of the government to request the President to read in his Address. My first point is about the Sethusamudram Project. The Government announced in 1999 that they would implement the Sethusamudram Project and they had allocated funds for investigation. But, so far, the Sethusamudram Project, which will benefit many countries of the world like Sri Lanka, India and the adjacent countries, has not seen the light of the day. This is a failure of the Government and I have pinpointed this in my amendment to the President’s Address. I would like to request the Government to at least examine those projects and after making the assessment, implement them this year. The President has expressed so many concerns – national, international and internal concerns. In that, I would like to first draw the attention of the House through you that India occupied a pivotal place in all the international matters, whether they related to SAARC or NAM. Now, what is the position occupied by India in SAARC and NAM? Yesterday we saw in the newspapers the photograph of the current NAM Summit. India is the largest democracy and our Prime Minister was not even offered a seat to sit while taking the photograph. He was asked to keep standing. The largest Indian democracy, headed by our Prime Minister, should not have been treated this way while leaders of small countries were sitting. This is the case not now alone, even in 1999, during the SAARC Summit, I watched that our Prime Minister Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee was standing. We should have a permanent seat at least in the photograph! We have not been able to get a permanent seat in the Security Council of the United Nations. These are small matters but it matters to us as it represents the dignity of our country…… (Interruptions) I am not making a controversy about it. But I have a feeling that our Prime Minister should not stand. That is my view. In some Addresses, former Presidents have referred to financial resources or assistance to the States. Sir, you know that all the States are in a financial crunch. At least, they should remove the restrictions on the States to mobilise resources. That is an important aspect that has not been referred to by the President. In Tamil Nadu, there is a statutory constitutional reservation of 69 per cent for backward classes. It was even included in the Ninth Schedule of the Constitution. Is that aspect of reservation extended to other parts of our country to help the deserving backward classes? There is no mention of nationalisation of rivers in the Address. There was a reference by all the leaders in all quarters but in this Address, I do not see any word about nationalisation of rivers. Though it involves and consumes lakhs and crores of rupees, at least, a blueprint can be drawn. About our relationship with Pakistan, the other day, there was a question answered by the hon. Minister, Shri Ram Naik. He said that Pakistan is not dependable to take crude oil from Iran through pipelines, so, we had to incur a heavy expenditure through the sea route. Hence, the attitude of Pakistan has to be examined and we have to take stringent diplomatic action against Pakistan. He has expressed a serious concern over judicial delay. We have been deliberating it through Questions, Motions, Matters under Rule 377 and even participating in the Budget debate. We have made a reference that there should be a Supreme Court Bench in the South. So far, the Government is not able to convince the Supreme Court on this point because the Supreme Court has said that it will affect the integrity of our country. If the Supreme Court is bifurcated, they say that it will affect the integrity. How will it affect the integrity of the country if a Bench is established in the South? The cost of travelling from the corner of Cape Comorin to Delhi is also injustice. Delay is injustice and undue cost is also injustice. So, in paragraph 58, he has expressed concern that it is high time that the Government of India should ask the Supreme Court to review the matter or, at least, we can amend the Constitution. Consultation of the Chief Justice of India is there. By amendment, we can say that there can be a Bench established in the South. Then, there is no reference about Central financial assistance to the States which are implementing the Nutritious Noon Meal Scheme. In Tamil Nadu, the late MGR, when he was the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, implemented the Free Nutritious Meal Scheme. The children in the rural areas benefited out of that. Now, it is being followed by the present Chief Minister, Dr. Jayalalithaa. She has further announced a scheme for the benefit of farmers. … (Interruptions) There is no mention about the Central Government’s financial assistance to the State Governments for de-silting of major rivers and to solve the problem of scarcity of drinking water. About five years back, there was a proposal that NABARD will de-silt all rivers. What has happened to that proposal? Access to drinking water or potable water is a fundamental right. So, the Government should augment the resources or find out ways to de-silt the major rivers all over the country. Then, Sir, there is no mention about the cent per cent financial assistance by the Centre to have underground water drainage in all the major cities in the country. Drinking water, of course, is important. To have underground water drainage, and to do de-silting, it requires thousands of crores of rupees. The Centre drew a plan for the State of Tamil Nadu, but so far they have not allocated financial assistance to the State of Tamil Nadu. So, I would say that for the effluents that go to the rivers, the sewerage should be properly established or conducted by the respective corporations. Then, Sir, there is no supply of life-saving drugs to every hospital. We have all deliberated during the debate and during the Question Hour on this. I would say that these matters should have found a place in the President’s Address. I am not able to get that. Then, let me come to rain water harvesting. De-silting of rivers and tanks would yield rain water harvesting, that is, storage of rain water. There is a programme in the State of Tamil Nadu drawn up by Dr. Swaminathan who invented and propagated this rain water harvesting. Even in houses, we have this rain water storage. I have this in my own house. The Chief Minister also has got this in her own house. It is a model plan for everybody. Those who are applying for new connections and for the approval of new building plans, they have to necessarily have a provision for rain water harvesting in their houses. Then, Sir, the State Government had written letters to the Prime Minister on so many occasions demanding to include Tamil as an official language and for the declaration of Tamil language as a classical language. What happened to that proposal? We respect all languages. We speak all languages. There was a proposal to that effect. There was a letter written by the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu to the Prime Minister to include Tamil as an official language. That was an assurance given by the late Pandit Nehru at the time of anti-Hindi agitation. … (Interruptions) SHRI PRIYA RANJAN DASMUNSI : It is already a national language. … (Interruptions) You see the Constitution of India. All the languages are national languages. SHRI P.H. PANDIAN : The demand is to declare it as a classical language, like some other languages. Sir, in paragraph 57, the President has referred to criminalisation of politics, the pending Bill before the Lok Sabha and on the open voting in the Rajya Sabha elections. It is a welcome measure. We have welcomed it even in the Standing Committee on Home Affairs. That should be there. Of course, we can avoid corruption in the elections. Then, Sir, India has good relationship with its neighbours like Nepal, Bhutan and even Bangladesh, except Pakistan. But we have to display a stringent attitude against the diabolic attitude of Pakistan after this NAM. Our Prime Minister did not meet Pervez Musharraf because we are not in terms of political compromise now. … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN : Kindly be brief and try to conclude. SHRI P.H. PANDIAN : I will take a few minutes and conclude. I will come to the subject and finish. There is nothing controversial in my speech.… (Interruptions) So many Parties are wasting the time of the House. … (Interruptions) So many Parties have wasted the time. I am not wasting even a minute or a second. Then, Sir, Education, Health, Human Rights and Fundamental Rights have to be safeguarded. The Supreme Court, in a number of decisions, has said that it is the duty of Parliament to safeguard these things. Now, I would like to ask whether Parliament is able to discharge its full Parliamentary responsibility. Of course, the Ministerial responsibility is there, but is there the Parliamentary responsibility? I was hearing the other day that while replying to the debate on disinvestment of BPCL and HPCL, the hon. Minister said: "We need not require the sanction of Parliament." According to Magna Carta, when we studied in the Law College, no tax could be imposed without the authority of the Crown. So also, no amount can be appropriated without the sanction of Parliament. So, to disinvest any amount of property belonging to BPCL, HPCL, etc., the Government has to get the prior sanction of Parliament. That is in theory. It need not be in practice. It is a constitutional principle. Parliamentary sanction is necessary for allowing the Executive to appropriate money for investing or disinvesting. When the Government is getting the sanction of Parliament for investment purpose, so also it should get the sanction of Parliament for disinvestment.… (Interruptions) SHRI PRIYA RANJAN DASMUNSI : We are bringing forward a Motion in this regard. You should support us.… (Interruptions) SHRI P.H. PANDIAN : So, they talk about the Ministerial responsibility. Under the Cabinet form of Government, they are totally answerable and accountable to Parliament, and not to any other agency.… (Interruptions) When a PIL is filed before a High Court or the Supreme Court, the Government immediately goes there saying that this is its stand, this is the matter. When the Government is accountable to the High Court and the Supreme Court, why not the Government be directly accountable to this Parliament? We are 545 Members. Parliament is the best judge. We need not go to the outside agencies. When they talked about the functioning of the courts as an interpreter of the Constitution, in 1993, Justice Chandrachud in the Supreme Court, in the Deena Versus the Union of India case, said that the Supreme Court is not the Third Chamber of the Legislature; it has no extra territorial ambition; and its function is to interpret the law. So, this Parliament alone can pull up the Government; can ask the Government about these things. This Parliament alone can command the Government to do this or that. So, the system of Parliamentary democracy should prevail. Sir, we are preserving the institution of President. We are preserving the institution of Prime Minister. We are preserving the institution of Parliament. So, I would like to say that the entire Parliament should be taken into confidence on all matters. SHRI PRIYA RANJAN DASMUNSI : They do not believe in that. SHRI P.H. PANDIAN : We must teach them the theory. The constitutional theory says that in parliamentary democracy, Parliament is the supreme body, not any outside agency. When the CNG issue was challenged before the Supreme Court, the Government had not deliberated about it here. So, in the same way, the primacy of Parliament, the supremacy of Parliament and the sovereignty of Parliament should be maintained, but it has not been stated in unequivocal terms by the President. The elected representatives of the people reflect the needs and aspirations of the people in Parliament. The President’s Address to Parliament contains many paragraphs and we have to support the Motion of Thanks to the President, because it is a constitutional obligation on the part of the President to read the Address prepared by the Central Government. He has to read it. He cannot say that he could not read it. No President can say that because the President is bound by the advice of the Cabinet, according to the Constitution. If the Central Government decides to impose President’s Rule in any State, he has no option, but to sign the Proclamation, because he has no discretionary power. He cannot question the Central Government and say that he is not satisfied with some paragraphs contained in the Address. So, while preparing the Address, the Government must be very careful. Here, in the text of the Motion of Thanks on the President’s Address, some words have been used. I do not know whether it is good English or bad English. The Motion says: I do not know why the word ‘deeply’ has been used before ‘grateful’ because the word ‘deeply’ does not go well with the word ‘grateful’. You can deeply mourn the loss of somebody, but you cannot be ‘deeply grateful’. Finally, I would like to say that Tamil Nadu and some other Southern States are doing well in the Information Technology sector. I read a news item that has appeared in The Indian Express today about the HRD Ministry ignoring the Southern States. I would like to quote: I am not jealous about those States, but I would like to point out here the non-inclusion of Southern States. The States that have been left out of this programme are, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat and West Bengal. I am told that Andhra Pradesh is doing well in the IT sector. I would like to submit that our State, Tamil Nadu, has overtaken Andhra Pradesh in the field of Information Technology. So, the non-inclusion of these States should be re-examined by the Central Government. They should review the programme and they should include those States which are doing well in the field of Information Technology. With these words, I endorse the views expressed by all the other Members. Nobody is going to oppose this Address. They may oppose the contents of the Address, but they are not going to oppose the President because the President is the constitutional head of the country. So, I will have to support the Motion and I support it. SHRI C. KUPPUSAMI ( MADRAS NORTH ): Mr. Chairman, Sir, on behalf of my party, the DMK, I rise to participate in the discussion on the Motion of Thanks on the President’s Address and support the Motion moved by Dr. Vijay Kumar Malhotra and seconded by my dear friend, Shri Suresh Prabhu. I remember that this Motion used to be seconded sometimes by my friend, Thiru Vaiko, who is, unfortunately, held under POTA, about which I will deal later. His Excellency the President has very rightly said that we need to be vigilant about Pakistan’s activities, especially cross-border terrorism foisted by their agents, ISI and other terrorist organisations. We pay our tributes to Kalpana Chawla, our young Indian girl who died in the tragic break-up of Space Shuttle, Columbia. I request the Government to institute some memorial schemes or projects to perpetuate the memory of this brave young girl to inspire young Indians to take up innovative and novelty projects in science and technology. On the Ayodhya issue, our leader, Dr. Kalaingar M. Karunanidhi has already made very clear that we should go by the Court’s verdict and the status quo should be maintained. We should not do anything which would vitiate communal harmony or peace and tranquillity in the country, especially in the vulnerable areas. India’s unity is in the strength of its diversity. We should respect all religions and all minorities should be protected. In para 18, H.E., the President has stressed for National Water Grid by networking of our river systems to transfer water from the surplus basins to the areas of deficit. It is a long pending proposal proposed four decades ago by one of the statesmen and engineering pioneer, Dr. K.L. Rao. He suggested ‘garland canal’ linking the rivers of North with the rivers of South. River water networking for the Southern Region should be given priority since Southern States are facing the water crisis perennially. Some lasting solution should be found out for the Cauvery water dispute in the interests of the farmers. The hon. President has referred to the Golden Quadrilateral and also construction of nearly 15,000 kms. of world-class highways during 1999-2007. The highway connecting Kanyakumari and further North in the East-Coast should be expedited and the sector should be open to the public at the earliest. The new National Highway is connecting Koyambedu bus terminal at Chennai and the Calcutta road. In between, there is an urgent need for an overbridge near Padi which would ease the congestion in road traffic. Sethu Samudram project for which a token sum was allotted last year is yet to take off. I would request the Government to provide more funds and focussed attention so that the dream of Sethu Samudram would come true in the near future. The hon. President has also referred to National Rail Vikas Yojana with an investment of Rs. 15,000 crore in the next five years. Since railway accidents are a common occurrence in the recent past, rail safety and security has to be taken care of. The conversion works from Metre Gauge to Broad Gauge in the Southern Railway should be completed expeditiously by utilising non-lapsable funds. In para 29, a reference has been made to shipping and port development. We have a port at Chennai, and there is another newly developed port at Ennore having berthing facilities. But unfortunately, due to infrastructure problems like lack of road communication between Chennai Port and Ennore Port, and the narrow connecting roads, there is the problem of transport. Therefore, these roads need to be widened and strengthened for the transportation of cargo. In para 57, electoral reforms to curb the influence of money power and muscle power have been talked about. Sir, what is happening in the bye-elections in Tamil Nadu, especially in Sattankulam constituency, is an eye opener. 17.00 hrs. 

The fourth pillar of democracy, the Press is sought to be gagged for reporting the blatant misuse of official machinery and distribution of freebies by the Ruling Party to woo Sattankulam voters. Even the Election Commission has ordered for probe into freebies… (Interruptions) SHRI P.H. PANDIAN : Sir, it is not in the President’s Address… (Interruptions) SHRI C. KUPPUSAMI : There was a reference about the electoral reforms. Even the Election Commission has ordered for a probe. Ruling party men from outside the constituency are stationed there to indulge in bogus voting. The genuine voters are being intimidated, threatened by the hooligans of the Ruling Party. There is every possibility that free and fair elections would be marred by intimidation, violence and voters being unduly pressured and influenced… (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN : Please go back to your seats. … (Interruptions) SHRI P.H. PANDIAN : Sir, there should be some rule. It is not good. Can I level a counter allegation? Will you allow me?… (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: Shri Kuppusami, this is not in President’s Address. Please come to the point. … (Interruptions) SHRI P.H. PANDIAN : Sir, kindly expunge that portion. The DMK is not contesting the elections there… (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: Please come to the President’s Address. SHRI ADHI SANKAR ( CUDDALORE ): Sir, this is very relevant… (Interruptions) SHRI P.H. PANDIAN : Sir, the President has not mentioned anything about it. Let it not go on record… (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: Shri Kuppusami, kindly refer to the President’s Address only and please conclude. SHRI C. KUPPUSAMI : There is a reference in the President’s Address… (Interruptions) SHRI P.H. PANDIAN : Sir, kindly expunge that portion… (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: If there is anything objectionable, I will expunge it. … (Interruptions) SHRI P.H. PANDIAN : Sir, they are not contesting the elections there… (Interruptions) SHRI ADHI SANKAR : Sir, yesterday the Congress candidate was assaulted by the AIADMK Minister there… (Interruptions) SHRI P.H. PANDIAN : They have not gone there and they are not contesting the elections. How can they talk about elections there? Is this a part of the President’s Address?… (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: Kindly take your seat. … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: Nothing will go on record. (Interruptions)* 

MR. CHAIRMAN: Please go to your seats. Nothing is going on record. SHRI P.H. PANDIAN : Sir, I appeal to the Chair to expunge it. It is not part of the President’s Address… (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: Please take your seats. It is not going on record. Shri Kuppusami, kindly conclude now. … (Interruptions) SHRI ADHI SANKAR : Sir, I object to what Shri Pandian is saying… (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: Your objection is not going on record. … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: Shri Adhi Sankar, whatever you are saying is not going on record. Nothing will go on record. * Not Recorded. (Interruptions) * 

MR. CHAIRMAN : Shri Pandian, it will not go on record. (Interruptions)* 

SHRI C. KUPPUSAMI : Sir, on the labour front, His Excellency, the President has said in para 42 that social security to the organized and unorganized workforce will continue to be the Government’s priority even in the era of liberalisation. The erstwhile DMK Government in Tamil Nadu headed by Dr. Kalaignar Karunanidhi was pioneer in bringing and implementing this policy. Accordingly, the DMK Government constituted Welfare Boards, as a social security measure, by which the members of the Board will get welfare benefits. Of course, the present AIADMK Government is not allowing the Boards to function properly. … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: Shri Pandian, please hear me. It is not going on record. (Interruptions)* 

MR. CHAIRMAN: Shri C. Kuppusami, kindly conclude. SHRI C. KUPPUSAMI : Even the disinvestment policy of the Central Government needs a review as we feel very strongly that profit-making companies, and companies which are in strategic field should not be disinvested. It has been made clear by our Party Leader Dr. Kalaignar M. Karunanidhi. … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: Shri Pandian, it is not going on record. (Interruptions)* 

SHRI C. KUPPUSAMI : The Government should not rush in to go for labour reforms. All the stakeholders, especially the labour class, trade unions, both Central and the State, should be consulted and based on broad consensus only, they could go for the amendments in the labour laws. … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: Shri C. Kuppusami, kindly conclude now. * Not Recorded. SHRI C. KUPPUSAMI : Sir, when the POTA Bill was debated in the House, we expressed our apprehension that it might be misused for political purpose. … (Interruptions) Now, some States have misused this instrument as a political weapon to suit their interest, instead of the national interest. The House is well aware that Thiru Vaiko is put behind the bar by invoking the provisions of POTA. … (Interruptions) More than six months have elapsed but no substantive charges have been made or proved and his health is deteriorating … (Interruptions). MR. CHAIRMAN: Shri Pandian, it is not going on record. (Interruptions)* 

SHRI C. KUPPUSAMI : Sir, corruption at high places should be curbed. The Lok Sabha is, at present considering the Central Vigilance Commission Bill, after great deliberations in the Joint Committee. The main thrust of the Central Vigilance Commission Bill is that the accountability of the Executive, the Legislature and the Judiciary are earmarked and to be maintained. With these words, I conclude. * Not Recorded 

… (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: Now, Shri Rashid Alvi. … (Interruptions) SHRI P.H. PANDIAN : Sir, the President has not mentioned in his Address about Shri Maran’s medical treatment. Five crores of rupees have been spent by the Central Government. Is he so valuable? … (Interruptions) SHRI A. KRISHNASWAMY ( SRIPERUMBUDUR ): He is a Member of Parliament. … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: Shri Pandian, please take your seat now. I have taken note of it. … (Interruptions) SHRI P.H. PANDIAN : The President has not mentioned, in his Address, about the expenditure on Shri Maran’s medical treatment. … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: What he has said against the Presidential Address is not going on record. … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: This is not the way. You are also a member on the Panel of Chairmen. Why are you behaving like this? … (Interruptions) THE MINISTER OF STATE IN THE MINISTRY OF PARLIAMENTARY AFFAIRS AND MINISTER OF STATE IN THE MINISTRY OF LABOUR (SHRI VIJAY GOEL): This is not the issue here. … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: You have already spoken. I have called Shri Rashid Alvi to speak. Shri Pandian, it is not going on record. (Interruptions)* 

* Not Recorded. SHRI PRIYA RANJAN DASMUNSI : Sir, the hon. Minister wants to respond. Let us have the privilege of hearing him. … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: Shri Pandian, please sit down. … (Interruptions) SHRI PRIYA RANJAN DASMUNSI : The Minister got up twice. Let us have the privilege of listening to him. … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN : Please sit down. This is not the way. … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: Shri Pandian, he is responding. श्री विजय गोयल : सभापति जी,मुझे लगता है कि किसी भी सदस्य का इस तरह का मामला भावना से जुड़ा हुआ है। न केवल एक मंत्री बल्कि किसी सदस्य के स्वास्थ्य की बात आती है तो सरकार उसके लिये कुछ भी करने के लिये तैयार है। मेरे पास आंकड़े नहीं हैं। इसलिये मैं श्री पांडियन से अनुरोध करूंगा कि इस तरह के भावनात्मक मुद्दे यहां न उठायें क्योंकि हर सदस्य के स्वास्थ्य के बारे में चिन्ता करना सरकार का काम है।… (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: No, you please sit down. … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: Shri Pandian, this is not the way. … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: Shri Pandian, he has replied that he will collect the information. … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: Shri Pandian, he will collect the information and give it to you. SHRI P.H. PANDIAN : Sir, let him give it tomorrow. The House would like to know that. It is public money. When will you give? We want to know that. MR. CHAIRMAN: He has answered it. SHRI P.H. PANDIAN : The concerned Minister is here. … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: No, this is not the way. You take your seat now. THE MINISTER OF STATE IN THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND FAMILY WELFARE (SHRI A. RAJA): So far I thought that Shri Pandian is a very learned person. Now only I think that he has disclosed his ignorance. I can say that it is his ignorance. (Interruptions) * 

MR. CHAIRMAN: This is not going on record. (Interruptions)* 

MR. CHAIRMAN: Shri Pandian, this is not the way. You are also on the Panel of Chairmen. How are you behaving? Kindly co-operate now. Please take your seat. The Minister of Parliamentary Affairs has replied it also. … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: This will be replied in the end. This is not the way. … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: Except the speech of Shri Rashid Alvi, nothing will go on record. (Interruptions) * 

MR. CHAIRMAN: Please co-operate now. SHRI RASHID ALVI ( AMROHA ): The Minister can collect it and inform the House. श्री विजय गोयल : सभापति जी, यह श्री पांडियन जी के लिये ठीक नहीं। इस मुद्दे को बार-बार उठाना बड़ा अनुचित समझा जाता है। यदि किसी सदस्य का स्वास्थ्य ठीक नहीं, सरकार उसकी मदद कर रही है। अगर माननीय सदस्य को इस संबंध में कुछ पूछना है तो अलग से हैल्थ मनिस्टर से पूछ सकते हैं। श्री पांडियन जी से निवेदन है कि वे कृपया हाउस को चलने दें।… (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: Except the speech of Shri Rashid Alvi, nothing will go on record. (Interruptions)* 

* Not Recorded. MR. CHAIRMAN: Again and again, you are raising the issue. Please sit down. SHRI PRIYA RANJAN DASMUNSI : Sir, time and again, Shri P.H. Pandian points his finger at us and asks why we are keeping quiet. Both the DMK and the AIADMK are in very good touch with the Government. Since this matter has been brought before this House, it is the duty of the Government to satisfy the hon. Member. It is not our duty. MR. CHAIRMAN : Shri Priya Ranjan Dasmunsi, the Parliamentary Affairs Minister has already responded. SHRI PRIYA RANJAN DASMUNSI : But the hon. Member has said that he is not satisfied. Let them answer tomorrow what has been spent. How can we be a party to this? Let the Government decide whether to give it or not. We are not a party to it. SHRI A. KRISHNASWAMY : Sir, this is not the right time to raise this question. … (Interruptions) You have not given him the permission to speak. SHRI P.H. PANDIAN : I did not get the permission but did he get the permission to raise all those issues? When you throw a stone, you should be ready to receive another stone thrown at you. … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: Nothing will go on record except what Shri Rashid Alvi says. (Interruptions) * 

MR. CHAIRMAN: Shri Krishnaswamy, I have not asked you to speak. Please sit down. … (Interruptions) सभापति महोदय : अल्वी जी, आप बोलना शुरू करिये। आपकी बात के अलावा और कोई बात रिकार्ड पर नहीं जायेगी। ...( व्यवधान) MR. CHAIRMAN: Nothing will go on record. (Interruptions)* 

* Not Recorded. श्री राशिद अलवी ( अमरोहा ):सभापति महोदय, मैं आपका शुक्रगुजार हूं कि आपने मुझे इस हंगामे में बोलने का मौका दिया। मेरे बोलने से आपको भी थोड़ा रिलीफ मिलेगा। प्रेसीडेन्ट ने ठीक कहा है: ‘No nation attains greatness without vision.’ 

प्रेसीडैन्ट एड्रैस किसी भी सरकार का आईना होता है। यदि सरकार की परफॉरमेन्स देखनी हो, सरकार का बीता हुआ कल, सरकार का आज और सरकार का आने वाला कल उस आईने के अंदर देखा जा सकता है। इस प्रेसीडैन्ट एड्रैस के अंदर भी कल आज और कल देखा जा सकता है कि आज देश किस सिम्त मे जा रहा है, किस दिशा की तरफ जा रहा है। मैं एप्रीशिएट करता हूं कि प्रैसीडैन्ट एड्रैस में एक नये विजन की बात की गई है। लेकिन पूरा एड्रैस पढ़ने के बावजूद मुझे वह विजन कहीं नजर नहीं आया। …( व्यवधान) अब यह बड़ा मुश्किल होगा कि एक जुमले पर आप क्रिटीसाइज करेंगे और दूसरे पर ताली बजायें। जो मैं कहना चाहता हूं, वह मुझे कहने दीजिए। कुछ बातें इधर के लोगों को बुरी लगेंगी और कुछ बातें उधर के लोगों को बुरी लगेंगी और सुमन जी आपको तो मेरी सारे बातें बुरी लगेंगी। इसमें विजन २०२० जो लफ्ज दिया गया है कि २०२० तक इस देश को ताकतवर बनाया जायेगा, मैं इसे एप्रीशिएट करता हूं। लेकिन किस तरीके से बनाया जायेगा, किस रास्ते पर ले जाकर देश को २०२० तक ताकतवर बनाया जायेगा, इसका उल्लेख इसके अंदर होना चाहिए था। चेयरमैन साहब, पैराग्राफ ७ और ९ में टैररिज्म और क्रॉस बॉर्डर टैररिज्म की बात कही गई है। यह कोई नई बात नहीं है। पिछले १५ सालों से यह देश टैररिज्म से जूझ रहा है, लेकिन बदकिस्मती यह है कि टैररिज्म से लड़ाई लड़ने के लिए हमने कोई सही रास्ता अभी तक नहीं अपनाया है। क्रॉस बार्डर टैररिज्म एक सच्चाई है, लेकिन उससे किस तरह लड़ाई लड़नी है, किस तरह से उससे मुकाबला करना है, इस बारे में अभी तक कोई साफ तस्वीर देश के सामने नहीं आई है। पूरा मुल्क परेशान है कि सरकार इसके लिए मजबूत कदम उठाए और टैररिज्म की लड़ाई लड़े। जम्मू-कश्मीर के अंदर टैररिज्म अपने शबाब पर रहा। मैं सरकार की इस बात के लिए तारीफ करता हूं कि कश्मीर के अंदर शायद आजादी के बाद पहली बार ईमानदारी से वहां चुनाव हुए, इसमें कोई शुबहा की बात नहीं है, लेकिन यह भी कहना चाहता हूं कि कश्मीर की सरकार जिस तरह से काम कर रही है, अभी इब्तदा-ए-इश्क है, हमें उसको टाइम देना चाहिए, वह जिस तरीके से कश्मीर में टैररिज्म से लड़ना चाहती है, उसके लिए उन्हें ढील देना चाहिए, उसके लिए समय देना चाहिए, ताकि वह अपने तरीके से टैररिज्म को खत्म कर सके। पिछले २० सालों से कश्मीर के अंदर तरह-तरह की बातें कर के, तरह-तरह के कदम उठाकर के हम फेल हो गए। मेरा उस सरकार से कोई लेना-देना नहीं है, लेकिन मैं ईमानदारी से देश के लिए जो सोचता हूं, वह बात मैं लोक सभा में रखना चाहता हूं। २० साल में आप कामयाब नहीं हुए। कश्मीर में बहुत सरकारें आईं और चली गईं। हमें दिल और दिमाग बड़ा कर के इस टैररिज्म की लड़ाई से लड़ना पड़ेगा। टैररिज्म के साथ यदि आप किसी एक मजहब को, किसी एक कम्युनिटी को जोड़ देंगे, तो टैररिज्म को खत्म करने की लड़ाई कमजोर हो जाएगी। चेयरमैन साहब, मुझे तकलीफ हुई, यहां अभी जब हमारे एक साथी कह रहे थे कि छ: जिलों में १५० लड़कियों के रेप हुए और वे सब मुसलमानों ने किए। मैं इस कंट्रोवर्सी में नहीं फंसना चाहता हूं कि वह कितना सही है और कितना गलत है। मैं एक मिनट के लिए मान भी लूं कि यह सही है, तो इसका क्या किया जाए। इस देश में कानून मौजूद है, कोई जंगल का राज नहीं है। अगर ऊपर से नीचे तक पूरे देश को रेप केसेस के अंदर भी इस प्रकार से डिवाइड कर देंगे और किसी एक जाति को उससे जोड़ने का काम करेंगे, तो इस देश को मजबूत करना मुश्किल होगा और जिस बात का जिक्र हमारे प्रैसीडेंट ने किया है, वह नए विज़न की बात २०२० तक कैसे हो पाएगी और कैसे आप देश को मजबूत करने की बात कहेंगे। यदि इस प्रकार से हम करेंगे, तो हम इस देश को मजबूत नहीं कर पाएंगे। हमें पूरे देश को मजबूत करना है, तो पूरे देश को इकट्ठा रखना होगा और हिन्दू और मुसलमान के बीच नफरत पैदा करने वाले आदमी को सजा मिले, ब्लैक कैट कमांडो की सुरक्षा नहीं। आज एक छोटा सा आदमी उठता है और एक नफरत की आंधी इस देश के अंदर फैला देता है, एक तबका वाह-वाह करता है, एक तबका क्रटिसाइज करता है। मैं कहना चाहता हूं कि हिन्दुस्तान की आजादी को आज ५४ साल हो गए, यदि आज भी हम नहीं सोचेंगे कि मुल्क को कैसे मजबूत किया जाए, तो फिर वह वक्त कभी वापस नहीं आएगा। हमें टैररिज्म और क्रॉस बॉर्डर टैररिज्म से पूरी ताकत के साथ लड़ना पड़ेगा। छ: महीने हमारी फौजें सरहद पर खड़ी रहीं और उसके बाद हमने उन्हें वापस बुला लिया। हमने कहा था कि अगर पाकिस्तान से लड़ाई भी लड़नी पड़े तो हम साथ हैं। इसका फैसला हम नहीं कर सकते कि पाकिस्तान के साथ लड़ाई लड़नी है या नहीं, इसका फैसला सरकार करेगी। टेरेरिज्म को खत्म करने के लिए कौन सा कदम उठाना है, इसका फैसला सरकार करेगी। इसके लिए सारा हाउस इकट्ठा है, आपको जो कदम उठाने हैं, वे उठाइए और क्रास बार्डर टेरेरिज्म को खत्म कीजिए। महोदय, १४वें पैराग्राफ में प्रेसीडेंट ने कहा है कि गुजरात के इलैक्शन से हिन्दुस्तान की डेमोक्रेसी मजबूत हुई है। महोदय, जो भी इलैक्शन होता है, उससे डेमोक्रेसी मजबूत होती है। किसी एक स्टेट के इलैक्शन का जिक्र करना मुनासिब नहीं है और जिन हालात में इलैक्शन हुए, उन हालात में जिक्र करना बिलकुल नमुनासिब है। ५४ सालों में देश के अंदर सैंकड़ों असेम्बलियों के इलैक्शन हुए। १३ पार्लियामेंट के हुए और ये तमाम इलैक्शन इस बात को साबित करते हैं कि हिन्दुस्तान की जम्हूरियत दुनिया की सबसे मजबूत और सबसे बड़ी जम्हूरियत है। आज २७-२८ पार्टी की सरकार, ट्रांसफर ऑफ पावर इतना स्मूथ होता है कि कभी किसी को एतराज नहीं होता। ये सारी बातें इस बात का वाजे सबूत हैं कि हिन्दुस्तान की डेमोक्रेसी, दुनिया की ताकतवर तरीन है। डेमोक्रेसी में से भी एक डेमोक्रेसी है, लेकिन सिर्फ किसी एक असेम्बली की चर्चा करना ठीक नहीं है। काश, अगर इसके अंदर यह कहा जाता कि जम्मू-काश्मीर के इलैक्शन से डेमोक्रेसी और मजबूत हुई है तो ज्यादा बेहतर बात होती, लेकिन सिर्फ अयोध्या की चर्चा करना ठीक नहीं है, इसे बहुत लोग शक-शुबहा की निगाह से देखते हैं, क्योंकि उस चुनाव के बाद बहुत बार कहा गया कि वही फार्मूला दूसरी असेम्बलियों के इलैक्शन के अंदर भी इस्तेमाल किया जाएगा। १७. २७ hrs.(Dr. Raghuvansh Prasad Singh in the Chair) 

महोदय, मुझे नहीं मालूम कि वह किस फार्मूले का जिक्र किया गया। १७ और १८ पैराग्राफ में सूखे की चर्चा की गई। यह एक मुसीबत ५४ सालों से हमारे देश के साथ रही है, लेकिन प्राइम मनिस्टर साहब ने अभी पिछले दिनों जो बयान दिया था कि देश की तमाम नदियों को एक-दूसरे के साथ जोड़ा जाएगा, वह बात बहुत दूर की थी। उसका हम वेलकम करते और सरकार पर पूरे तरीके से इनसिस्ट करते कि उनके इस कदम को जल्दी से जल्दी उठाया जाए। इसमें बड़े पैसे और प्लानिंग की जरूरत है, लेकिन जितना काम इसके अंदर कर सकें, वह देश के हित में होगा। अगर हमने सूखे पर काबू पा लिया, आसमान से गिरते हुए पानी से, जो सैंकड़ों लोगों को तबाह कर देता है, उस पर काबू पा लिया तो यह हमारी बहुत बड़ी एक उपलब्धि होगी। इस काम में सरकार ज्यादा ताकत के साथ आगे बढ़ेगी। पैराग्राफ २६ में सरकार ने प्रधानमंत्री ग्राम सड़क योजना के बारे में कहा है। यह एक अच्छी योजना है, लेकिन इसमें मैं यह कहना चाहूंगा कि इस देश के अंदर जो करप्शन है, जब तक सरकार उससे नहीं लड़ेगी, इसके कोई बहुत नतीजे नहीं निकलने वाले हैं। इस बात को तमाम मेम्बर्स जानते हैं कि इस तरीके की योजनाओं में करीब-करीब ४० फीसदी कमीशन इंजीनियर्स खाते हैं।…( व्यवधान)कोई एक नहीं है कि जिसके अंदर कहा जाए। यह कोई डिस्प्यूट का मामला नहीं है। इसके अंदर अन्य दूसरे मामलों में, सड़क योजना को छोड़िए, मैं एमपी लैड की बात करता हूं। इसमें भी ३०-४० प्रतिशत कमीशन खाया जाता है।…( व्यवधान) मैं एमपीज़ की बात नहीं कर रहा हूं, आप गुस्सा मत होइए, मैं इंजीनियर्स और डिस्टि्रक्ट एडमनिस्ट्रेशन की बात कर रहा हूं।…( व्यवधान)हम जब तक करप्शन की लड़ाई को नहीं लड़ेंगे, खत्म नहीं करेंगे तब तक हमारा देश तरक्की नहीं कर सकता और इसके लिए जरूरी है कि देश का जो ब्यूरोक्रेटिक सिस्टम है उस पर हमें तवज्जह देना पड़ेगा। जब तक इस सिस्टम में तब्दीली नहीं आएगी तब तक करप्शन खत्म नहीं हो सकती। सभापति महोदय, ४१ वें पैराग्राफ में डिसइन्वेस्टमैंट की बात की गयी है। इसके बारे में मैं जरूर कहना चाहूंगा कि जो पब्लिक यूनिट्स नुकसान में चल रही हैं, उनको सरकार इसलिए बेचना चाहती है कि वे यूनिट्स नुकसान में चल रही हैं और जो पब्लिक यूनिट्स फायदे में चल रही हैं, उनको सरकार इसलिए बेचना चाहती है कि वे यूनिट्स आज फायदे में चल रही हैं इसलिए उनका बेहतर पैसा मिल जायेगा। कल को अगर वे नुकसान में चलेंगी तो हमें नुकसान हो जायेगा। जो यूनिट्स नुकसान में चल रही हैं, उनका भी डिसइन्वेस्टमैंट कर रहे हैं और जो फायदे में चल रही हैं, उनका भी ये डिसइन्वेस्टमैंट करना चाहते हैं। मैं कोई इकोनॉमिस्ट नहीं हूं और न ही कोई एक्सपर्ट हूं लेकिन यह बात मेरी समझ में नहीं आती क्योंकि गवर्नमैंट हर साल यह तय करती है कि इतने हजार करोड़ रुपये का डिसइन्वेस्टमैंट होगा। अगर आपने पहले से ही तय कर लिया है कि १० हजार करोड़ रुपये का डिसइन्वेस्टमैंट इस साल जरूर करना है और साल के आखिर में आप कहेंगे कि हम इसे पूरा नहीं कर पाये और सिर्फ पांच हजार करोड़ रुपये का ही कर पाये तो इसका मतलब यह है कि आपने तय कर लिया है कि कुछ भी बेचेंगे लेकिन १० हजार करोड़ रुपये जरूर पूरा करेंगे। बजट का डेफीसेट आप इसी पैसे से पूरा करेंगे। यह बात मैं जमींदारों के बारे में सुना करता था कि जो जमींदार काम नहीं करना चाहते, वे अपनी जमीन बेचकर सुबह-शाम की रोजी-रोटी चलाने का काम करते है। लेकिन सरकारें इस तरह से काम करेंगी ऐसा पहले कभी नहीं देखा। डिसइन्वेस्टमैंट की पालिसी ठीक होनी चाहिए। जो पब्लिक यूनिट््स हैं, जो फायदे में चल रही हैं, वे डिसइन्वेस्टमैंट नहीं होनी चाहिए तथा जिन अधिकारियों की जिम्मेदारी उन यूनिट्स को चलाने की है, उन पर सख्ती करनी चाहिए और करप्शन रुकना चाहिए। सिर्फ डिसइन्वेस्टमैंट कर देना समस्या का समाधान नहीं है। मैं अफसोस के साथ कहना चाहता हूं कि माइनोरिटीज का तस्करा सिर्फ ५४वें पैराग्राफ में आया है। उसके अंदर सिर्फ यही कहा गया कि- सिर्फ एक जुमला पूरे प्रेजीडैंट एड्रैस के अंदर है। मैं बड़े अदब से पूछना चाहता हूं कि मुल्क की जो हालत है, मुल्क का जो माहौल है, क्या उसके अंदर यह जरूरी नहीं कि माइनोरिटीज के बारे में गवर्नमैंट को साफ-साफ कहना चाहिए था कि उनके इस बारे में क्या-क्या फैसले हैं और वह माइनोरिटीज को कैसे आगे ले जायेंगे। अगर कोई आदमी बीमार होता है, अगर किसी आदमी के हाथ में दर्द होता है तो उसके पांव का इलाज नहीं किया जाता। अगर आदमी अपने हाथ का इलाज न करे तो पूरा जिस्म सड़ने लगता है। शैडयूल कास्ट्स, माइनोरिटीज इस देश के जिस्म का एक हिस्सा है। बैकवर्ड क्लासेज इस देश के जिस्म का एक हिस्सा है। बीमारी कहीं भी हो, यह नहीं देखा जा सकता कि जिस्म में चेहरे में बीमारी है तो उसका इलाज करेंगे और अगर पांव में बीमारी है तो उसका इलाज नहीं करायेंगे। इसका असर पूरे जिस्म के ऊपर पड़ेगा। इस देश के अंदर माइनोरिटीज की अगर बुरी हालत है तो यह सरकार की जिम्मेदारी है। मेरा कहना है कि २० प्वाइंट प्रोग्राम स्वर्गीय मिसेज इंदिरा गांधी के समय में चला था। वह प्रोग्राम सरकार ने अभी खत्म नहीं किया, वह मौजूद है लेकिन उसका जिक्र कभी नहीं होता कि वह प्रोग्राम क्यों आगे नहीं चला। माइनोरिटीज के लिए फाइनेंशियल कार्पोरेशन भी बना था जिसमें कहा गया था कि उन्हें कम से कम ५ हजार करोड़ रुपये दिये जायेंगे लेकिन आज तक उन्हें एक करोड़ रुपये से ज्यादा नहीं दिये गये। उन्हें २५ हजार या ५० हजार लोन ही दिया जाता है। मैं कहना चाहता हूं कि सरकार को इसके अंदर अमेंडमैंट करना चाहिए और शैडयूल कास्ट और माइनोरिटीज के बारे में सरकार को बहुत सफाई से अपनी पालिसी क्लीयर करनी चाहिए। सभापति महोदय, ५७वें पैराग्राफ में इलैक्टोरल रिफाम्र्स और क्रमिनलाइजेशन के बारे में कहा गया। यह बहुत जरूरी है क्योंकि आज इलैक्शन इतना महंगा हो गया है कि हर आदमी चुनाव नहीं लड़ सकता। पोलीटिकस में इतना कॉस्टीज़्म आ गया है, इतना क्रमिनलाइजेशन हो गया है, उसकी मिसालें मैं हाउस के अंदर देना नहीं चाहता हूं। पूरे हिन्दुस्तान के अंदर कितने इलैक्टेड लोग हैं जिनके खिलाफ फौजदारी के मुकदमे पैंडिंग हैं। किसी भी तरीके का कानून बनना चाहिए जिससे क्रमिनलाइजेशन खत्म हो। अगर हिन्दुस्तान की डैमोक्रेसी को सबसे बड़ा खतरा किसी चीज से हो सकता है तो वह पॉलटिक्स के क्रमिनेलाइजेशन से हो सकता है। हमें पिछले ५४ साल के सफर से सबक लेना चाहिए और मैं यह भी कहना चाहता हूं कि कोई कौम, कोई मुल्क अगर अपने मांजी की गलतियों से सबक हासिल नहीं करता है तो उसका मुसब्बिल कभी शानदार नहीं हो सकता है। जो लगी हुई ठोकरों से संभलकर ठीक तरह नहीं चल सकता, वह बहुत दूर तक नहीं जा सकता। बार-बार ठोकरें खाकर कभी मंजिल तक नहीं पहुंचा जा सकता। इलैक्ट्रोरल रिफॉम्र्स के ऊपर पूरे तरीके से बहस होनी चाहिए और कितना रिफॉम्र्स करना है, इसके अंदर कोई मुस्तसर नहीं छोड़ना चाहिए। हम साउथ अफ्रीका गये थे। प्रिपोर्शनल रिप्रेजेंटेशन वहां पर हुआ है। दुनिया के बहुत से मुल्कों के अंदर हुआ है। हमें सोचना चाहिए कि क्या वह तरीका ठीक हो सकता है?हमें इलैक्टोरल रिफॉम्र्स के लिए हर तरीके पर अपनी तवज्जह देनी चाहिए। इसके लिए मैं सरकार से कहूंगा कि तमाम पार्टीज के लोगों की कमेटी बनाकर उनके ऊपर यह छोड़ें कि किस तरीके से रिफॉर्म हो औऱ किस तरीके से क्रिमीनल्स को पॉलटिक्स से दूर रखा जाए। आज राजनीति में बड़ी तादाद में क्रिमीनल्स मौजूद हैं। मैं बहुत लम्बी बात नहीं कहना चाहता हूं। आखिर में मैं दो बातें ज्यूडशियल सिस्टम के बारे में कहना चाहता हूं जिसका जिक्र १८वे पैराग्राफ के अंदर फॉरेन पॉलिसी के अंदर ६० से लेकर ७६ पैराग्राफ में किया गया है। ज्यूडशियल सिस्टम के अंदर आज आम आदमी का भरोसा ज्यूडशियल सिस्टम से उठता जा रहा है। जो छोटी-छोटी अदालतें हैं, उनमें व्यापक करप्शन है और जो बड़ी-बड़ी अदालतें हैं, उनमें खुला करप्शन है। बड़ी अदालतों में दूसरे तरह का करप्शन है कि किसी भी मामले में ज्यूडशियरी अपनी टांग अड़ा देती है। मेरा सुझाव है कि जिस तरीके का सिस्टम है, वकीलों को हाइकोर्ट का जज डायरेक्ट बना दिया जाता है चाहे किसी की सरकार आए, किसी की सरकार जाए। यह नैचुरल तरीका है कि अगर मेरा अख्तियार होगा तो मैं अपने दोस्त को हाइकोर्ट का जज बनाऊंगा। यह हर सरकार के अंदर होता है। इसके लिए हमें एक सिस्टम बनाना होगा और ज्यूडशियल सिस्टम इस तरह का होना चाहिए कि जिसकी भर्ती मुंसिफ मजिस्ट्रेट के लिए हो रही है, उसकी पर्फामेंस और उसकी ईमानदारी को प्रमोट करके चीफ जस्टिस ऑफ इंडिया बनाना चाहिए और यह मुमकिन है कि चीफ जस्टिस ऑफ इंडिया जस्टिस एम.जी. कुछ दिन रहे। वह डिस्टि्रक्ट जज थे, उससे प्रमोट होकर चीफ जस्टिस ऑफ इंडिया बने। ऐसा नहीं है कि नीचे से ऊपर नहीं आया जा सकता है। इस सिस्टम को हमें बदलना पड़ेगा। हमें आईपीसी, सीआरपीसी को रीकंसीडर करना पड़ेगा। १९९३ के अंदर मैं सुप्रीम कोर्ट के अंदर बैठता था। I was practising in the Supreme Court. १८ एकड़ लैंड का एक किस्सा आया। आप ताज्जुब करेंगे कि १८६३ में १८ एकड़ लैंड का झगड़ा डिस्टि्रक्ट कोर्ट के अंदर फाइल हुआ था और वह केस सुप्रीम कोर्ट के सामने १९९३ में यानी १३० साल बाद आया और उस प्वाइंट को सुनने के बाद सुप्रीम कोर्ट referred it back to the High Court to consider another point. उस केस को सुनने के बाद कहा कि दुबारा हमारे सामने आइए। यह ज्यूडशियल सिस्टम है। अगर इसको हम नहीं बदलेंगे तो आम आदमी की समस्या का समाधान नहीं हो सकता । आखिरी बात, मैं फॉरेन पॉलिसी के ऊपर दो मिनट में अपनी बात कहकर समाप्त करता हूं। ६० से ७६ पैराग्राफ तक फॉरेन पॉलिसी की चर्चा की गई है जिसमें नेपाल से लेकर लंका, यूरोपियन कंट्री से लेकर यूनाईटेड स्टेट्स तक की चर्चा है। हर देश से हमारे किस तरीके के रिश्ते हैं, उसकी चर्चा है लेकिन मैं अदब से कहना चाहता हूं कि सरकार की फॉरेन पॉलिसी कोई वाज़ेह नहीं है। पालिसी होनी चाहिए कि हिन्दुस्तान का क्या इंटरेस्ट है, जबकि हमारी पालिसी इस तरीके की रहती है कि दूसरे देश का क्या इंटरेस्ट है। अमेरिका के सामने हम झुककर खड़े हो जाते हैं। अमेरिका ने जब अफगानिस्तान पर हमला किया, तो हम अपनी जमीन, अपना आसमान अमेरिका को देने के लिए तैयार हो गए। मैं कहना चाहता हूं मैंने इराक के इश्यू पर बोला था, तब भी कहा था और आज भी कह रहा हूं कि हमारी समस्याओं का समाधान सिर्फ एक ही है कि हिन्दुस्तान को ही इतना ताकतवर कर दें कि कोई हमारी तरफ बुरी नजर से देख न सके। आज अमेरिका जो कर रहा है वह सिर्फ इसलिए कर रहा है कि दुनिया में वह अकेला सबसे बड़ा ताकतवर देश है। रूस के बिखर जाने के बाद दुनिया में कोई दूसरा देश ताकतवर नहीं रह गया है। इसलिए आज वह अपनी मनमानी करता है। मेरे पास अमेरिका के कुछ डिप्लोमैट्स बात करने आए थे। वे कह रहे थे कि हम इराक को इसलिए ठीक करना चाहते हैं कि वहां पर लोकतंत्र लाया जा सके। उस देश के पास ऐसे खतरनाक हथियार हैं, जो किसी को भी तबाह कर सकते हैं। मैंने तब पूछा कि क्या अमेरिका से ज्यादा खतरनाक हथियार इराक के पास हैं और क्या इराक ही ऐसा मुल्क है जहां डेमोक्रेसी नहीं है। आज सीरिया में, लीबिया में, दुबई में, मस्कट में भी डैमोक्रेसी नहीं है। मैं ऐसे देशों की एक लम्बी फेहरिस्त दे सकता हूं, पाकिस्तान के अंदर भी डैमोक्रेसी नहीं है। इसलिए आप किस डैमोक्रेसी की बात करते हैं। मैंने उनसे यह भी कहा कि अगर आपके दिल में सच्चाई है, ईमानदारी है, आप दुनिया की सबसे बड़ी ताकत हैं, इससे कोई इनकार नहीं कर सकता। आज पूरी दुनिया कह रही है कि इराक पर हमला नहीं होना चाहिए। इसलिए अगर आप ऐसा कहेंगे और दुनिया की बात मानेंगे तो आपका कद बढ़ जाएगा। लेकिन यह समस्या हमेशा रहेगी। हिन्दुस्तान अपने आपमें ताकत पैदा कर सकता है, हमारे अंदर वे सारी सलायतें मौजदू हैं कि दुनिया के नक्शे में अमेरिका के साथ खड़े हो सकते हैं। अगर ऐसा नहीं होगा तो वक्त किसी का इंतजार नहीं करेगा। चीन खड़ा हो जाएगा और चीन आज भी हमसे आगे है। मैं अपील करना चाहता हूं कि ये जो छोटे-मोटे मामलात हैं, जो हिन्दू-मुस्लिम की मुनाफरतें हैं, यह कह देना कि पांच जिलों में १५० लड़कियों के साथ मुस्लिम लड़कों ने रेप कर दिया, इसको खत्म करे दें। हिन्दू-मुसलमान, सिख-ईसाई इकट्ठे होकर हिन्दुस्तान को ताकतवर कीजिए। इन समस्याओं का इसके अलावा कोई दूसरा हल नहीं है, सिर्फ यही एक हल है। जब तक हम इकट्ठा नहीं होंगे, यह दुनिया सिर्फ ताकत की जुबान समझती है। यह कमजोर मुल्क को जिंदा नहीं रहने देना चाहती। कुवैत पर २४ घंटे में इराक ने अपना झंडा फहरा दिया था, क्योंकि कुवैत कमजोर मुल्क था। एक हफ्ते तक उसका नामो-निशान दुनिया के नक्शे से गायब हो गया था। ताकतवर मुल्क छोटे मुल्कों को छीन लेते हैं, यह दुनिया की रीत रही है, क्योंकि ताकत के सामने हर व्यक्ति झुकता है। हमारी समस्याओं का हल नेशनल और इंटरनेशनल समस्याओं का हल, हमारे यहां आतंकवाद की समस्या का हल, क्रास बोर्डर आतकंवाद की समस्या का हल सिर्फ एक ही है कि खुदा के वास्ते इकट्ठा हो जाओ और मुल्क को इतना ताकतवर कर दीजिए कि कोई गलत निगाहों से न देख सके। Under the instruction of my leader, I support this Motion. श्री रामजी लाल सुमन ( फिरोजाबाद ):सभापति जी, मुझे बोल लेने दें, क्योंकि हमारी पार्टी की जरूरी मीटिंग है। डा. रमेश चंद तोमर ( हापुड़ ): आप मेरे बाद बोल लेना। सभापति महोदय : आपको भी मौका मिलेगा। अभी रमेश चंद जी बोलेंगे। डा. रमेश चंद तोमर :सभापति जी, राष्ट्रपति जी के अभिभाषण पर प्रो. विजय कुमार मल्होत्रा जी ने जो धन्यवाद का प्रस्ताव सदन में पेश किया है, मैं उसका समर्थन करने के लिए खड़ा हुआ हूं। राष्ट्रपति जी का अभिभाषण सरकार की नीतियों, सरकार के कार्यक्रमों और आगामी योजनाओं को दर्शाता है। राष्ट्रपति जी के अभिभाषण में सरकार की करीब ७५ योजनाओं को दर्शाया गया है। मैं दावे के साथ कह सकता हूं कि राष्ट्रीय गठबंधन की सरकार श्री अटल बिहारी वाजपेयी के नेतृत्व में देश को चहुंमुखी विकास की ओर ले जाने के रास्ते पर अग्रसर है। हमारी सरकार का मुख्य उद्देश्य है कि देश में २६ करोड़ के करीब जो जनसंख्या गरीबी रेखा से नीचे जीवनयापन कर रही है, उसको विकास की मुख्य धारा में लाया जाए। भारत की गिनती गरीब देशों में न होकर विकासशील देशों में सबसे ऊपर हो। पिछले स्वतंत्रता दिवस के अवसर पर देश की जनता को सम्बोधित करते हुए प्रधान मंत्री जी ने २०२० तक भारत को विकसित राष्ट्र में तब्दील करने का आहवान किया था। माननीय सभापति जी, देश के सभी लोगों को शिक्षा, स्वास्थ्य, मकान और काम मिलना चाहिए - इसी आधार पर सारी योजनाएं बनाई जा रही हैं और दसवीं पंचवर्षीय योजना भी इसी उद्देश्य को लेकर बनाई गयी है। इसका उद्देश्य रोजगार सृजन और इक्विटी पर अधिक जोर देते हुए तीव्र आर्थिक विकास करना है। इस योजना के दौरान सकल घरेलू उत्पाद में ८ प्रतिशत की वार्षिक वृद्धि का लक्ष्य रखा गया है। इसमें पांच करोड़ अतरिक्त रोजगार और स्वरोजगार के अवसर प्रदान करने का लक्ष्य भी रखा गया है। सरकार का लक्ष्य देश को सन् २०२० तक विकसित राष्ट्र बनाने का है। सरकार की इन योजनाओं को संकल्पना-२०२० के नाम से जाना जाता है। उस संकल्पना का मुख्य उद्देश्य ग्रामीण क्षेत्र को शहरी सुविधा उपलब्ध कराना है जिससे शहरों पर जनता के घनत्व का दबाव कम हो सके। सभापति जी, मैं दावे के साथ कह सकता हूं कि उत्तर-पूर्व के राज्यों में किये गये सरकार के प्रयास सार्थक हुए हैं। इसके लिए मैं नगालैंड की जनता को भी बहुत बधाई देना चाहता हूं। जनता की तीव्र इच्छा से ही यह संभव हो पाया है। शांति-वार्ता की सफलता के लिए मैं बोडो समुदाय के लोगों को भी बधाई देना चाहता हूं क्योंकि शांति के समय ही विकास का काम तेजी से आगे बढ़ता है। सरकार ने उत्तर-पूर्व के राज्यों को विकास के लिए १५०० करोड़ रुपये अधिक दिये हैं। उत्तर-पूर्व के लोगों की मांग थी कि उनको विमान की सुविधा मिलनी चाहिए। इसलिए केन्द्र सरकार ने चार पचास सीटर विमान खरीद कर उनकी मांग को पूरा किया है। मेरा दावा है कि वहां आर्थिक विकास बढ़ाने की दिशा में सरकार के प्रयास सार्थक सिद्ध हुए हैं। विश्व-स्तर पर आई हुई मंदी के बावजूद पिछला वर्ष भारत के लिए बहुत अच्छा रहा है। भारत का स्तर विश्व की विकासशील अर्थव्यवस्थाओं में बना रहा है। इस वित्तीय वर्ष के पहले ९ महीनों में निर्यात २० प्रतिशत बढ़कर ३८ बलियन अमरीकन डॉलर हो गया है। इसी अवधि के दौरान सीमा-शुल्क, उत्पाद-शुल्क में १५ प्रतिशत के राजस्व की वृद्धि हुई है। आज हमारे पास विशाल विदेशी-मुद्रा का भंडार है। आज हमारे पास ७५ बलियन विदेशी मुद्रा भंडार है। एक समय ऐसा आया था जब हमें विदेशी-मुद्रा के लिए सरकारी सोना गिरवी रखना पड़ा था और दूसरे देशों से कर्ज लेना पड़ा था। हमारे देश के १४ राज्यों को सूखे का सामना करना पड़ा, लेकिन उन १४ के १४ राज्यों को केन्द्र ने सहायता दी। सभापति जी, माननीय उप-प्रधान मंत्री जी की अध्यक्षता में सूखे से संबंधित एक कार्यदल गठित किया गया है जिसने एक हजार करोड़ रुपये की राशि इन राज्यों को सहायता के रूप में दी थी। इन राज्यों के लिए राष्ट्रीय आपदा कोष में भी केन्द्र ने १४०० करोड़ रुपये की राशि का योगदान दिया है। माननीय सभापति जी, संपूर्ण ग्रामीण योजना के अंतर्गत काम के बदले अनाज योजना के जरिये राहत रोजगार सृजन हेतु इन योजनाओं को लगभग ५ हजार करोड़ रुपये मूल्य का ५० लाख टन अनाज आवंटित किया गया है। इसके बावजूद भी खाद्यान्न भंडार की स्थिति संतोषजनक है और आवश्यक वस्तुओं की कीमतें भी नहीं बढ़ी हैं। साथ ही हमारी सरकार ने ३० देशों में गेहूं का निर्यात भी किया है। सूखे और बाढ़ की स्थिति से बड़े पैमाने पर आर्थिक और मानवीय क्षति होती है। इसके लिए बड़ी नदियों को जोड़ने की योजना भारत सरकार ने बनाई है जिससे बाढ़ की वभषिका से बचा जा सके। इनके द्वारा अधशेष जल वाले नदी क्षेत्रों से कमी वाले क्षेत्रों में जल भेजा जा सके। सभापति जी, ग्रामीण जनता की पेय-जल की समस्या को हल करने के लिए केन्द्र सरकार द्वारा स्व-जलधारा कार्यक्रम चलाया जा रहा है। इसके अंतर्गत १० प्रतिशत समुदाय या ग्राम-पंचायत की भागीदारी होगी और ९० प्रतिशत केन्द्र सरकार पैसा देगी। दस कदम आप चलें, नब्बे कदम हम चलेंगे। इस योजना को जनता का अपार समर्थन मिला है। इस योजना के द्वारा ग्रामीण क्षेत्रों में पेय-जल की समस्या का निदान होगा। हमारा मानना है कि बिना किसान की खुशहाली के यह देश तरक्की नहीं कर सकता है। इसलिए कृषि से संबंधित क्रिया-कलापों के लिए जो संस्थागत ऋण है उसकी राशि ४५ हजार करोड़ रुपये से बढ़ाकर ७५ हजार करोड़ रुपये कर दी गयी है ।किसानों को फसल बोने के लिए खाद, बीज और पानी की परेशानी नहीं हो, इस बारे में पिछले तीन वर्षों से जो योजना चल रही थी, वह सुचारू रूप से काम कर रही है। हमारी सरकार द्वारा सितम्बर, २००२ तक दो करोड़ सत्तर लाख किसानों को क्रैडिट कार्ड दिए जा चुके थे और बाकी किसानों को मार्च, २००४ तक क्रैडिट कार्ड दे दिए जायेंगे। पिछले ३५-४० वर्षों से हम लगातार देखते आ रहे थे कि राशन की दुकानों पर लम्बी-लम्बी कतारें लगा करती थीं और अनाज उपलब्ध नहीं हो पाता था, लेकिन आज खुले बाजार में और भरपूर अनाज उपलब्ध है। टेलीफोन बुक कराने के बाद दस-दस साल लग जाते थे, लेकिन दूरसंचार में जबरदस्त विकास के कारण आज हालत यह हो गई है कि आज टेलिफोन बुक कराइए और दूसरे दिन टेलिफोन उपलब्ध हो जाता है। १९९९ में १४ लाख मोबाइल थे और यह मोबाइल ऐश्वर्य की चीज माना जाता था, लेकिन आज आम आदमी मोबाइल लेने की स्थिति में है। यही स्थिति पहले गैस कनैक्शन की उपलब्धता की थी। गैस कनैक्शन लेने में पहले सालों लग जाते थे, लेकिऩ आज तुरन्त गैस कनैक्शन मिल जाता है। इन सब क्षेत्रों में विकास हमारी सरकार ने किया है। आई.टी. क्षेत्र में आज भारत का गौरव विश्व में बढ़ा है। विश्व में आर्थिक मंदी के बावजूद भी सोफ्टवेयर क्षेत्र मे जहां पहले ७.८ बलियन का निर्यात हुआ करता था, अब आशा की जाती है कि १० बलियन तक पहुंच सकता है। इसी प्रकार प्रधान मंत्री सड़क योजना ग्रामीण क्षेत्रों के लिए सबसे महत्वपूर्ण योजना है। इस योजना के द्वारा गांवों को सड़कों से जोड़ा जाएगा। पिछले दो वर्षों के अन्दर इस योजना के अन्तर्गत ७ करोड़ रुपए खर्च करके २० हजार किलोमीटर सड़क बनाई जाएगी। इसके लिए अधिक संसाधन जुटाने का प्रयास किया जा रहा है, ताकि देश के सभी गांवों को सड़कों से जोड़ा जा सके। इसके अलावा राष्ट्रीय राजमार्ग विकास परियोजना शुरु की गई है। आजादी के बाद देश में ५५६ किलोमीटर सड़क थी और अब आजादी के पचास वर्षों के बाद चार लेन राष्ट्रीय राजमार्ग का निर्माण किया जा रहा है। यही नहीं, सन् २००७ तक १५००० किलोमीटर राष्ट्रीय राजमार्ग विश्व स्तर के निर्मित किए जायेंगे। उसके लिए सरकार २० हजार करोड़ रुपए खर्च कर रही है। हमारी सरकार ने हर क्षेत्र में तरक्की की है। आवास निर्माण के क्षेत्र में हुडको द्वारा १९९८ तक ११ हजार करोड़ रुपए खर्च किए गए थे, लेकिन पिछले चार वर्षों में हुडको द्वारा अधिक धनराशि खर्च की जा रही है। मैं कहना चाहता हूं, जब से राष्ट्रीय जनतान्त्रिक गठबंधन की सरकार बनी है, तब से अब तक ६० लाख लोगों को ऋण स्वीकृत हो चुका है। आवास योजना का काम तेजी से चल रहा है। मकान तेजी से बनाए जा रहे हैं। झुग्गी-झौंपड़ी में रहने वाले लोगों को मकान की सुविधा मुहैया कराई जा रही है। मैं कहना चाहता हूं कि सरकार ने हर क्षेत्र में अच्छा काम किया है। सरकार किसानों, मजदूरों और छोटे लोगों के लिए अच्छा काम कर रही है। इसलिए अंत में मैं आपसे निवेदन करना चाहता हूं कि सरकार जब हर क्षेत्र में अच्छा काम कर रही है, तो सभी दलों को राष्ट्रपति जी के अभिभाषण पर प्रस्तुत धन्यवाद प्रस्ताव का एक मत से समर्थन करना चाहिए। मुझे बोलने के लिए आपने समय दिया, इसके लिए मैं आपको धन्यवाद देता हूं। श्री रामजीलाल सुमन ( फिरोजाबाद ):सभापति महोदय, संसद के समक्ष १७ फरवरी को राष्ट्रपति जी का अभिभाषण हुआ। एक तरह से अभिभाषण एक करार होता है, एक प्रतिबद्धता होती है कि आगे आने वाले एक वर्ष में सरकार को क्या करना है। श्री विजय कुमार मल्होत्रा जी ने धन्यवाद प्रस्ताव रखा। उन्होंने निम्न स्तर की शुरुआत धन्यवाद प्रस्ताव पर की। अगले एक वर्ष में क्या होना है, वह अलग सवाल है। पिछली बार जब राष्ट्रपति जी का अभिभाषण हुआ और उसमें जो बातें कही गई, उस एक वर्ष में क्या किया गया, कितने वायदे निभाए, इनका मूल्यांकन और समीक्षा करना हमारा धर्म है। मैं दावे के साथ कह सकता हूं कि पिछली बार राष्ट्रपति के अभिभाषण में भी सरकार ने वायदे किए थे लेकिन सरकार ने उस दिशा में कोई सार्थक कदम नहीं उठाए। अभी अलवी जी का भाषण हुआ। तोमर जी भाषण कर रहे थे तो कह रहे थे वह २०२० तक भारत विकसित राष्ट्र बन जाएगा। हिन्दुस्तान एक ताकतवर पर राष्ट्र बनना चाहिए। जब हम यह बात करते हैं तो हमें इस सम्भावना पर भी विचार करना चाहिए कि हम संसाधन कैसे जुटाएंगे, मूल्क की ताकत बढ़ाने के लिए ऊर्जा और शक्ति कहां से आएगी, संसाधन कैसे पैदा होंगे, दौलत की बढ़ोत्तरी कैसे होगी? इसका कोई खुलासा सरकार के पास नहीं है। हर सरकार को अपनी प्राथमिकताएं तय करनी चाहिए लेकिन इस सरकार के सामने कोई प्राथमिकता नहीं है। यह राष्ट्रीय गठबंधन की सरकार है लेकिन यदि सभी घटक दलों के भाषण सुनें तो सच्चाई सामने आ जाती है। इनमें सरकार चलाने के लिए तो सामंजस्य है लेकिन नीतिगत फैसलों पर सामंजस्य नहीं है। अभी तोमर जी भाषण कर रहे थे तो ऐसा लगा कि वह निक्कर पहने हैं और संघ परिवार से संबंधित हैं। डॉ.रमेश चन्द तोमर : यह किस्मत वाले पहनते हैं। श्री रामजीलाल सुमन : इसी प्रकार आदित्यनाथ जी का साधु-संतों वाला भाषण था। समाज में तनाव पैदा करने के अलावा इनके पास कोई कार्यक्रम नहीं है। जब उत्तर प्रदेश में चुनाव आए तो उससे पहले मंदिर का सवाल खड़ा कर दिया। गुजरात के चुनावों से पहले खून-खराबा करवा दिया। अब कुछ राज्यों में चुनाव होने वाले हैं तो मध्य प्रदेश में भोजशाला का सवाल और अयोध्या का सवाल खड़ा कर दिया। ऐसे सवाल उठाने का काम यह सरकार करती है। बड़े दुख के साथ कहना पड़ता है कि कट्टरपंथियों के चक्कर में प्रधान मंत्री भी फंस गए। प्रधान मंत्री छुटि्टयां बिताने गोवा गए थे। वहां उन्होंने विचार और मंथन किया और उसके बाद सांस्कृतिक राष्ट्रवाद की बात कह दी। भूख, बेबसी, बेरोजगारी और किसानों की समस्याएं प्रधान मंत्री के जहन में नहीं हैं। आज देश को आंतरिक और बाहय दोनों प्रकार के खतरे हैं। धार्मिक कट्टरपंथी लोग देश की एकता को तोड़ने में तुले हैं। अभी धर्म संसद हुई। उसका क्या मतलब था? इससे क्या संदेश गया है? अब यह २७ फरवरी को गोधरा की पहली वर्षगांठ मनाएंगे. हिन्दुत्व की रक्षा करेंगे, ६ मार्च को सुप्रीम कोर्ट में चाहे कोई फैसला हो लेकिन वह उसे नहीं मानेंगे और मंदिर बनाना शुरु कर देंगे, भारत का नाम हिन्दुस्तान होगा। वामपंथी, समाजवादी और साफ दिमाग के लोगों तथा मुसलमानों से महाभारत जैसे युद्ध की घोषण करेंगे। 18.00 hrs. 

सभापति महोदय, मैं इन लोगों से पूछना चाहता हूं कि ये किसे जोड़ने की बात कर रहे हैं। देश बहुत बड़ा है। यदि देश की सामाजिक एकता कायम नहीं रही तो देश तरक्की नहीं कर सकता। किसी ने ठीक लिखा है : अध्यक्ष महोदय, आप भी जानते हैं कि जब उत्तर प्रदेश में राजनाथ सिंह की सरकार थी तो वहां के मुख्य मंत्री ने सर्वाधिक पिछड़े वर्ग के लिए आरक्षण लागू किया था। आज सुप्रीम कोर्ट में यह मामला पड़ा हुआ है। सुप्रीम कोर्ट का फैसला अभी नहीं हुआ है। जब कई राज्यों में अतपिछडों के लिए अलग से आरक्षण है तो केन्द्रीय सरकार में अतपिछडों के लिए अलग से आरक्षण क्यों नहीं होना चाहिये?मैं यह तर्क देना चाहता हूँ मगर समाजवादी पार्टी के बंधु यहां नहीं हैं। इसका प्रमाण अभी मैं साफ देना चाहता हूँ जो अभी सुमन जी ने कहा। हम सभी संसद सदस्य इस संसद में बराबर हैं, सबके अधिकार और कर्तव्य एक हैं लेकिन हमारे एक शैडयूल्ड कास्ट के सदस्य हैं। उनको उन्होंने कहा कि ...( व्यवधान)* 

डॉ. रघुवंश प्रसाद सिंह :वह बात प्रोसीडिंग्ज से निकल गई थी। उसका ज़िक्र न करें। श्री ब्रहमानन्द मंडल : रघुवंश जी, मैं आपको नहीं कह रहा हूँ। मैं तो सीधे अध्यक्ष जी को कह रहा हूँ। अध्यक्ष महोदय : रघुवंश जी, वह जो कुछ कह रहे हैं, मैंने सुना है। वह रेकार्ड पर नहीं है। उसके बारे में कहना ठीक नहीं है। हमने वह रेकार्ड से निकाल दिया है। श्री ब्रहमानन्द मंडल : इस भावना का विकास कहां से हुआ है, ये ताकत कहां से आई है और संसद में भी किस तरह से आ रही है? तब हम और आप सोच सकते हैं कि ग्रामीण क्षेत्रों और शहरों में जो सर्वाधिक पिछड़ा वर्ग के लोग हैं, उनके साथ दबंग पिछड़ी जातियों का कितना अन्याय और ज़ुल्म होता है, किस तरह से उसके हिस्से को हड़पा जाता है, लेकिन अफसोस और दुख के साथ कहना पड़ता है कि मंडल कमीशन में पिछड़ी जातियों के लिए २७ %आरक्षण की व्यवस्था की गई है और इस समस्त आरक्षण को १७ % दबंग पिछड़ी जातियां हडप कर रही हैं। और ३५ % सर्वाधिक या अत्यंत पिछड़ी जातियां आरक्षण से वांछित हो गई हैं। प्रतिशत के हिसाब से दबंग जातियां १५० % से अधिक आरक्षण ले रही हैं। केन्द्रीय सेवाओं में चाहे आई.ए.एस. हो, आई.पी.एस. हो या चपरासी की नौकरी हो, आप उसकी सूची मंगाएं और देखें कि ओबीसी के लोग कितने हैं। बिहार में उसकी सूची है, महाराष्ट्र में उसकी सूची है, तमिलनाडु में उसकी सूची है। बाकी राज्यों में खासकर उत्तर प्रदेश में भी साथ ही रिपोर्ट बहुगुणा जी के 

* Not Recorded. समय में तैयार हुई थी। फिर एक समति बनी अत्यंत पिछड़ों की, उसमें भी एक सूची है। उसमें कितने लोग 

आए हैं? जब हम समाज के विकास की बात करते हैं तो हिन्दुस्तान के ३५ फीसदी लोग ऐसे हैं जो आज़ादी के बाद लगातार पीछे ढकेले जा रहे हैं, विकास की बात तो दूर है। इसलिए इसकी चर्चा की व्यवस्था इसमें होनी चाहिए। सभी राजनीतिक दलों को इस बारे में सोचना चाहिए क्योंकि आज ऐसी स्थिति आ गई है जो बताती है कि इनकी स्थिति एस. सी. और एस. टी. से भी बदतर हो गई है। मैंने अपने दौरे में इसको पाया जब मैं बिहार गया था। मैं किसी भी सरकार को बदनाम नहीं करना चाहता हूँ। एक घटना की चर्चा मैं करना चाहता हूँ। मैं मोकामा गया था। छ: आदमियों की वहां हत्या हुई है जो सर्वाधिक पिछड़ा वर्ग के लोग हैं - धानुक लोग हैं। क्यों उनकी हत्या हुई? कोई झगड़ा उनसे नहीं था। उन पर आरोप यह था कि वे एक दूसरे गांव के लोगों को मुकदमा लडने के लिए चंदा देते हैं। मुकदमा इसलिए है क्योंकि दबंग पिछड़ी जाति के लोगों ने वहां के जो सर्वाधिक पिछड़े या हरिजन हैं, उनकी छ: सौ एकड़ ज़मीन पर कब्ज़ा कर लिया है। उसका खतियानी है, कवाला है, उसके बावजूद भी उस पर कब्ज़ा कर रखा है। उसकी अगर कोई मदद करता है तो उसके बाद उसे रोड पर पकड़ कर, नदी के किनारे पर शूट कर दिया जाता है। दो-तीन-चार बीघा जमीन रखने वाले लोग, जिनकी जिन्दगी एस.सी. एवं एस.टी. से भी बहुत नीचे है, आज उसे दो बीघा जमीन रखने का भी अधिकार नहीं है। इसकी गारंटी कौन करेगा?प्रश्न एक समुदाय या जाति का नहीं है, हिन्दुस्तान में जो ३५ फीसदी लोग गरीबी रेखा के नीचे और अत्यंत सर्वाधिक पिछड़े हैं, उनके लिए कल्याणकारी योजना बननी चाहिए या नहीं। अफसोस है कि इसकी कोई चर्चा इसमें नहीं है। महोदय, जनवाद को मजबूत करने के संबंध में बातें आई हैं। यह बात सही है कि आजादी के बाद हमारे देश में जनवाद मजबूत हुआ है, लेकिन यह भी सही है कि हमारे जनवाद में घुन लगता जा रहा है। जिस तरह अनाज में घुन लग जाता है, वह बर्बाद हो जाता है, उसे कोई नहीं खाता है, इस्तेमाल नहीं करता है। उसे लोग फेंक देते हैं, उसी तरह हमारे जनवाद में हो रहा है। मैं एक उदाहरण देना चाहता हूं। १५ फरवरी के "आज"के अखबार में, जो पटना से निकलता है, उसमें एक रिपोर्ट है। मैं किसी को बदनाम नहीं करना चाहता, लेकिन मैं सच्चाई रखना चाहता हूं। उसमें दिया हुआ है कि वहां जो एक नये डीजी आए हैं, पुराने चले गए हैं, उनकी रिपोर्ट मंगाई गई। अपराधियों का बिहार के अंदर जो गिरोह है, वे कैसे काम करते हैं, वे कितने हैं, किन का संरक्षण है या नहीं है। उनका मुकाबला कैसे किया जा सकता है, पुलिस कैसे करेगी। वह रिपोर्ट मंगाई और उस रिपोर्ट में आया कि ३००० गिरोह, क्राइम माफियाज़ जो हैं, वे बिहार के अंदर हैं। एक जिले में लगभग ९० हैं। जहां विकास नाम की कोई चीज नहीं है। उसमें यह विश्लेषण दिया हुआ है कि इस सारे गिरोह को न सिर्फ राजनीतिक नेताओं का संरक्षण प्राप्त है बल्कि चुनाव में भी ये जीत कर आ रहे हैं और निर्णायक भूमिका अदा कर रहे हैं। आज यही लोग फैसला करते हैं कि कौन पार्लियामेंट और असेम्बली में जाएगा। चाहे वह पार्लियामेंट में हों या असेम्बली में हों, कुछ मंत्रियों का उसमें नाम भी अब सूची में है। अगर इस तरह राजनीति का अपराधीकरण और अपराधियों का राजनीतिकरण होता हो, बिहार जैसे राज्य में ३००० माफियाज़ गिरोह हों और वह गिरोह न सिर्फ आर्थिक और सामाजिक क्षेत्र में हो, बल्कि राज सत्ता पर कब्जा करने के लिए, और जब शासन एवं प्रशासन की लाठी तथा साथ में क्राइम माफियाज़ की लाठी भी एक हो जाएगी तो फिर इस डेमोक्रेसी को बचाने वाला कौन है, इसे कौन बचा सकता है। इसलिए इसकी चर्चा होनी चाहिए, हम किस तरह इस पर कार्यवाही कर सकते हैं और किस तरह राज सत्ता या सरकार में आने से क्राइम माफियाज़ और इनके जो नेता हैं - चाहे केन्द्र सरकार में हों या राज्य सरकार में हों, इसे पूरे देश के अंदर कैसे रोका जा सकता है। इसके नियम और कायदे किस तरह बनाए जा सकते हैं, इसकी भी चर्चा होनी चाहिए थी। महोदय, पूरे उत्तर-भारत में शीत लहर है। वर्षा एवं ओलावृष्टि से पूरा देश तबाह हुआ है। १००० करोड़ से ज्यादा की फसलें सिर्फ बिहार में बर्बाद हुई हैं। मुंगेर, भागलपुर और खगड़िया में ओलावृष्टि से सौ प्रतिशत फसल बर्बाद हो गई, राष्ट्रपति जी के अभिभाषण में इसकी कोई चर्चा नहीं है। किसान दाने-दाने के लिए तरस रहे हैं। उन्हें कोई सहायता नहीं दी जा रही, कोई मुआवजा नहीं दिया जा रहा है। किसान क्रेडिट कार्ड भी उनके पास नहीं है क्योंकि प्रशासन ने वहां उपलब्ध नहीं कराये। फसल बीमा योजना जो केन्द्रीय सरकार ने लागू की है, उसका भी लाभ किसान को नहीं मिल रहा। प्रशासन ने उसकी कोई व्यवस्था नहीं की। किसान अगली फसल कैसे लगायेंगे, क्या खायेंगे, इसकी कोई व्यवस्था वहां नहीं है। इसका भी जिक्र इसमें होना चाहिए था। इराक के संबंध में जो बातें आयी हैं, भारत सरकार अपने स्तर से जो भी कर रही है, मैं उसका समर्थन करता हूं। अमरीका ने इससे पहले भी इराक पर जो हमला किया था, उसमें लाखों बच्चे और नागरिक मारे गये थे। वहां बहुत तबाही हुई थी। उसके बाद भी रह-रहकर उस पर हमले हो रहे हैं। इसके लिए भारत सरकार को कुछ कारगर कदम उठाने चाहिए थे। जब हम कहते हैं कि इराक को यह करना चाहिए, वह करना चाहिए, मैं सारी बातों में जाना नहीं चाहता हूं लेकिन हमें यह भी कहना चाहिए कि अमरीका को यह नहीं करना चाहिए या वह नहीं करना चाहिए। अमरीका के पास ताकत है इसलिए दुनिया के किसी भी कोने में उसको आतंकवाद या आतंकवादी केन्द्र का नाश करने के लिए या वहां के लोगों को प्रशिक्षण देकर अपने हित में इस्तेमाल करने के लिए सारी सुविधाएं चाहिएं। भारत जैसा देश जो शांतप्रिय देश है और आतंकवाद से ग्रसित है, अगर वह आतंकवाद को समाप्त करना चाहता है तो अमरीका भारत को कहता है कि धैर्य से काम लेना चाहिए लेकिन अमरीका खुद धैर्य से काम नहीं ले रहा है। उसको तेल चाहिए। अपनी मंदी दूर करने के लिए तेल के कुएं चाहिए।…( व्यवधान)मेरा एक प्वाइंट और है। मैं दो मिनट में खत्म कर रहा हूं। …( व्यवधान) अध्यक्ष महोदय : आपका समय हो गया है। मैं आपको दो मिनट और नहीं दे सकता हूं। ...( व्यवधान) श्री ब्रहमानन्द मंडल : मैं कहना चाहता हूं कि इस बात की भी इसमें चर्चा होनी चाहिए। भारत सरकार कहे कि हमारा राष्ट्र हित इसके साथ जुड़ा हुआ है। …( व्यवधान) SHRI PRAVIN RASHTRAPAL : Mr. Speaker, Sir, I am thanking you for providing me an opportunity to speak on the Motion of Thanks to the hon. President. … (Interruptions) अध्यक्ष महोदय : आपकी पार्टी का जब नम्बर आयेगा तब मैं आपका नाम ध्यान में रखूंगा। श्री ब्रहमानन्द मंडल : अध्यक्ष महोदय, मैं दो मिनट में समाप्त कर रहा हूं। …( व्यवधान) SHRI PRAVIN RASHTRAPAL : Sir, I need your protection because I have allowed two Members. … (Interruptions) श्री ब्रहमानन्द मंडल : मैं दो मिनट में अपनी बात समाप्त कर रहा हूं। …( व्यवधान) अध्यक्ष महोदय : आप केवल अपना आखिरी वाक्य कहिये। ...( व्यवधान) श्री ब्रहमानन्द मंडल : मैं वनिवेश के बारे में थोड़ा सा बोलना चाहता हूं। …( व्यवधान) अध्यक्ष महोदय : टाइम ज्यादा नहीं है। आपका दस मिनट का टाइम था लेकिन मैंने आपको चौदह मिनट दिये हैं। इससे ज्यादा टाइम मैं आपको और नहीं दे सकता। ...( व्यवधान) ब्रहमानन्द मंडल : मुझे समाप्त करने में ही दो मिनट लग जायेंगे।…( व्यवधान) अध्यक्ष महोदय : आप जल्दी समाप्त कीजिए। ...( व्यवधान) श्री ब्रहमानन्द मंडल : मैं कहना चाहता हूं कि जहां हमें मुनाफा मिल रहा है, जहां की व्यवस्था या मैनेजमैंट अच्छे ढंग से काम कर रहा है, उन उद्योगों को भी ऐसे लोगों के हाथ में देने की क्या जरूरत है, यह बात मेरी समझ में नहीं आती। भारत सरकार को इस पर सोचना चाहिए कि जितने भी सार्वजनिक क्षेत्र के उद्योग हैं जो कि मुनाफे में चल रहे हैं और जिनका कार्य-कलाप बहुत अच्छा है, जिसका मैनेजमैंट बहुत अच्छा है, जो हमको मुनाफा दे रहे हैं, उनका वनिवेश किसी भी कीमत पर नहीं होना चाहिए क्योंकि यह देश हित में नहीं है। …( व्यवधान) इन्हीं शब्दों के साथ मैं अपनी बात समाप्त करता हूं। आपने मुझे बोलने का समय दिया, इसके लिए आपका बहुत-बहुत धन्यवाद। SHRI PRAVIN RASHTRAPAL ( PATAN ): Sir, me as ‘Rashtrapal’ is here to thank the hon. Rashtrapati for taking trouble of coming to the Central Hall and delivering a lecture to the Joint Session of the Indian Parliament. But I am extremely sorry that I will take this opportunity to point out that there are many omissions and commissions in the Address prepared by the Government of India, which is known as democratic Government, but is working with the external support of mobocracy of Vishwa Hindu Parishad, Bajrang Dal, RSS, Jan Jagran Manch and many other outfits all over the country. My leader of the Party, Shrimati Sonia Gandhi, and my senior colleague, Shri Mani Shankar Aiyar have dealt with many important issues regarding the functioning and failures of the Government. I will restrict myself to remove the misinformation, the disinformation, the confusion, the untruths and the falsehood created by the first speaker of the BJP, Dr. Vijay Kumar Malhotra. But before I go to that subject, I will place on record certain important statistics relating to our country so that the Government in power would have some direction and guidance as to what was the performance of the previous Government and what is the performance of the present Government. Sir, the Indian population, according to the latest 2001 Census, is 102,70,15,247 (provisional). The figure regarding rural and urban population is not yet available. The figure regarding caste and religion is not yet available. So, we have figures of 1991 Census and according to the 1991 Census, the urban population in this country was 23 per cent and the rural population in this country was 77 per cent. It proves that India lives in villages, as Mahatma Gandhi had uttered during his lifetime. According to the religious figures, the Muslim population in this country is 12 per cent, the Christian population is two-and-a-half per cent, the Sikh population is 0.2 per cent, and for others it is 1.6 per cent, making a total of 16 per cent. So the only balance remaining is the population claimed as Hindus. But as my colleague Shri Mandal, who has just spoken and left, has rightly pointed out, among these 82 per cent of Hindu population, 25 per cent belongs to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and nearly 40 per cent belongs to Other Backward Classes, and almost all of them who are in rural areas are below poverty line. I will not speak much about the other important statistics but I will only give two important figures, that is, regarding annual growth rate of real gross domestic product at factor cost by industry of origin. This is very important as far as the industrial performance of this Government and the previous Government is concerned. I will restrict to four or five years. During 1988-89, it was 10.5 per cent; during 1989-90, it was 6.7 per cent; during 1994-95, it was 7.3 per cent; during 1998-99 it came down to 6.6 per cent and during 1999-2000 it was 6.4 per cent. As far as gross domestic savings as percentage of GDP are concerned, during 1990-91, it was 23.1 per cent; during 1991-92, it was 22 per cent; during 1998-99, it was 22 per cent; and during 1999-2000, it is again 22.3 per cent. These are the figures as far as certain economic parameters are concerned. Sir, about disinvestment, many things are said. My leader has already made it clear that the Congress as a party is not in favour of selling out the profit-making units, the Navratnas, like IPC L, BHEL and others. Now, I will come to the confusion created by Shri Vijay Kumar Malhotra while participating in the discussion. Shri Malhotra argued that during the last 50 years, the Congress has not done anything. On the other side, they are claiming that the present hon. Prime Minister is in office for the last five years. Presuming that the first House of Parliament was formed after the first election in 1952, then we have exactly completed 50 years in 2002. If you deduct these five years, the rule remains for 45 years. I want to remind Shri Malhotra about the non-Congress and non-BJP Prime Ministers who were there during the period when Congress was not ruling. Their names are: Shri V.P. Singh, Shri Morarji Desai, Shri Deve Gowda, Shri Charan Singh, Shri Chandra Shekhar, and Shri I.K. Gujral. I request the ruling party to find out the period of these Prime Ministers. You cannot blame the Congress for the failures during the last 50 years. It was Shri Jawaharlal Nehru, Shrimati Indira Gandhi, Shri Rajiv Gandhi, hon. Shri Shastri and Shri Narasimha Rao who ruled the country. DR. NITISH SENGUPTA : I am glad that he is remembering Shastriji. SHRI PRAVIN RASHTRAPAL : I do remember him. I will not make mistake like others. They have ruled and what they have given to the nation! 

Sir, I would like to utilise this opportunity to put certain questions to the Ruling Party, the BJP in particular, and expect them to give their answers through their next speaker or by the hon. Prime Minister, who is going to reply to this debate tomorrow. Who invented ONGC? Who was ruling this country when ONGC came into being? Who nationalised LIC? Who nationalised the banks in this country? As a result, there are more than 60,000 branches all over the country, and a poor man, a man belonging to Scheduled Castes, a minority man, a farmer, a man below the poverty line is able to go to a bank and open an account, deposit his savings and operate his account. What is ISRO? During whose period, ISRO was established ? Our hon. President is a product of ISRO. Homi Baba was a product of ISRO. Dr. Vikram Sarabhai was a product of ISRO. They do not belong to this party or that party. They were the most respected scientists in this country. I would like to know whether Dr. Vijay Kumar Malhotra is aware about PRL at Ahmedabad; IIM at Ahmedabad and Calcutta; NIT at Ahmedabad; and BHEL at Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh, which is one of the biggest factories, doing a fantastic work, which is not being done in foreign countries. I am proud that BHEL is receiving orders from foreign countries on the engineering side. Who established IFFCO in Gujarat? Where is the Koyali Refinery? And from where the crude oil is going to the Mathura Refinery? It is going from Kandla. Who constituted the Kandla Port? Who constituted the Free Trade Zone of Kandla? Who constructed the Bhakra Dam? This Dam was inaugurated by the then Russian Prime Minister. He came and uttered one particular sentence, which I remember. He said: "Here is a country, which takes risk of constructing such a very mighty dam, the biggest in Asia, on the border State. So, I think, there is God in India. I do not believe in God." This was what the then Russian Prime Minister had said at the time of its inauguration. What did the then Prime Minister, Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru said? He said: "These dams and factories are the temples of the modern India." You are not worried about these temples. You are worried about a temple which was not in existence. I am extremely sorry to say this. I am not going to talk about the temple today, I am not going to talk about cow slaughter today because for me they are non-issues, they are not the issues. For me, the issue is about the welfare of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes, the minority, the poor people in the rural areas, people below the poverty line, the working class, and the Government employees and officers, who are being exploited by this Government against the constitutional provisions in this country. Once again, I want to ask as to who laid the foundation stone of the Narmada Project, which is one of the biggest projects and which is going to benefit Gujarat, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. … (Interruptions) श्री दिलीप संघाणी ( अमरेली ):१५ साल तक आपने नहीं किया, हमने किया है। श्री प्रवीण राष्ट्रपाल : मैं फिगर दूंगा जो अपने किया है और जो हमने किया है। The foundation stone for this project was laid by Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru. The first clearance was given by a non-BJP Prime Minister, Shri Morarji Desai. The permission for environment clearance was given by none other than the late Prime Minister, Shri Rajiv Gandhi. It was, during non-BJP rule that 85 metres of the Narmada Dam was constructed. My friend, Shri Dileep Sanghani, 85 metres of this dam was constructed during non-BJP Government, up to 1995. The BJP Government came in power in Gujarat after 1995, but for intervention of one year of Shri Shankersinh Vaghela, who was supported by the Congress Party. They have constructed only eighty five metres. Today, the dam is standing at a height of 93 metres only. The scientists all over the world and the scientists in this country say that water will flow in the canal only after reaching the height of 110 metres. Without that, it is of no use. Even if you complete 110 metres what about the canals. I want to know from this Government one thing. What is going on at Kevadia Colony near Bharuch? No construction activity is going on. The Government of Gujarat is paying daily interest and other charges amounting to Rs.8 crore. The debt of the Government of Gujarat has gone up to Rs.47,000 crores. When the hon. Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister, Shri Advani, came to Gujarat during the previous election tour, they promised the five crore of people of Gujarat that if they come to power, Narmada would be declared as a national project. I, being an MP from Gujarat, on behalf of all the 26 MPs from Gujarat, including the BJP MPs, want to know from the Government of India when they are going to declare Narmada as a national project. With these words, now I will deal with a few other paragraphs of the hon. President’s address. MR. SPEAKER: May I disturb you for a minute? The Congress Party has got 40 minutes time today. There are seven speakers. Now 40 minutes are remaining. SHRI PRAVIN RASHTRAPAL : Sir, what is the total time? MR. SPEAKER: The total time is 52 minutes. Some time was taken yesterday. SHRI PRAVIN RASHTRAPAL : Out of 10 hours, how can it be 52 minutes? MR. SPEAKER: According to the calculation, that is the total time that we have given. Anyway, today there are 40 minutes left to speak. I have before me seven speakers of the Congress Party. If the other Members withdraw their names or their leaders request them to withdraw, then I can give you more time. Otherwise your time is over. SHRI PRAVIN RASHTRAPAL : I think they will co-operate. SHRI E. AHAMED ( MANJERI ): Sir, I have one suggestion. The small Parties may also be called in between the big Parties. MR. SPEAKER: I agree with you. He is making such fine remarks, but I had to disturb him. I can understand you have studied the subject. I appreciate your remarks. SHRI PRAVIN RASHTRAPAL : I will only touch a few paragraphs. I want to quote some of the speeches of the hon. President. MR. SPEAKER: I may not be able to give you more than five minutes now. SHRI PRAVIN RASHTRAPAL : I want 10 minutes time. I will not take more than 10 minutes. MR. SPEAKER: I will have to delete some names from the Congress Party. SHRI PRAVIN RASHTRAPAL : Sir, I will quote paragraph 14 which is concerning the State of Gujarat. The hon. President says: I thank the President for using the words, ‘sad chapter’. There was a sad chapter and that is admitted by the highest authority of the land. But I request the Government to find out what was that sad chapter. Why the hon. President has not given the details? Why the man, who created that problem, is not being punished? I want that both the Government of India and the Government of Gujarat should take action against those who are responsible for the killings of the innocent people of both Muslim and Hindu communities. I am telling you they were innocent people. If this Government goes to the extent of applying POTA against 121 accussed of Godhra, we welcome it. If burning an innocent man in a train is an offence and that can be covered under POTA, burning of Ehsan Jafri, ex-MP, along with his family and many others, at Meghani Nagar, burning of 90 people at Naroda Patia in Ahmadabad, burning alive of 34 family members at village Sardarpura, which is near my constituency, killing poor people in the place known as Unjha and Chanesma in my constituency, should also be covered under POTA. I request the Government that all those who are responsible for killing innocent Hindus and innocent Muslims during these worst riots in the history of Gujarat be punished and they should be arrested under POTA. Proceedings should be initiated against them. As far as another important paragraph is concerned, I will restrict only to the working class. The President here says that social security to the organised and unorganised workforce will continue to be the Government’s priority even in the era of liberalisation. I am extremely sorry to report that there is no security whatsoever to the working class in this country. In my own State, teachers are getting salary of only Rs.2,500 per month. You were one of the best teachers in Dadar. I stayed in Mumbai for ten years. The profession of teaching is noble. They work for many hours and they teach the future generations of the country. The Vidya Sahayaks in Gujarat are getting a salary of Rs.2,500 and are treated as Government servants for al purposes but they do not get any other benefit. The present Government in Gujarat has also decided to recruit Talati, a Revenue Department official, one of the most important functionaries though at the lowest level, at a salary of Rs.2,500 per month for five years. For all practical purposes, he or she would be a Government employee but he or she cannot get more than Rs.2,500. In the Ahmedabad airport, there are 122 loaders working for the last 12 to 15 years. Out of them, only 22 are permanent employees and get full salary while the others do not get full salary. Sir, you are from Maharashtra and I am from Gujarat. You know what salary is being paid to the workers of the NTC. Today, I have written to the hon. Minister of Textiles that the Central Government employees in the office of the National Textile Corporation at Ahmedabad are getting their monthly salary in four or five instalments. Presuming that the mills are not making profits and there is no income at all, do you mean to say that no salary should be paid for employees working there? The NTC workers get salary without doing work and they are required only to sign a muster roll. A government employee is supposed to attend office for eight hours but he is getting salary in four or five instalments. I would now come to the main subject of my interest, that is, promotion of social justice. My main worry is not on economic or the many other political issues but my main worry is on social justice and social democracy. I would like to quote here Dr. B.R. Ambedkar, as he spoke in the Constituent Assembly on the 25th November, 1949. MR. SPEAKER: Are you quoting from your book? SHRI PRAVIN RASHTRAPAL : This is your book. MR. SPEAKER: My book? SHRI PRAVIN RASHTRAPAL : This is the book published by the Lok Sabha Secretariat. MR. SPEAKER: I know, you have written books on dalit issues. Therefore, I wanted to know which book you were quoting from. SHRI PRAVIN RASHTRAPAL : This is the Golden Jubilee of the Republic of India. The father of the Constitutions says : I would quote only one more sentence of Dr. Ambedkar and conclude my speech after referring to two or three paragraphs of the Address. Dr. Ambedkar, while addressing the Constituent Assembly on the last day when the draft of the Constitution was presented was aware of what was going to happen in this country. Many stalwarts and many leaders were knowing what was going to happen in this country. He has gone on record: Nobody imagined during 1950 that we would be ruled by the BJP under the RSS dictats. I am extremely sorry to say this. It is the prerogative of the Prime Minister of this country to select his team. It is the prerogative of the Chief Ministers of the States to select their teams. But in this country, the Prime Minister has had to change a particular Minister from the Ministry of Finance to the Ministry of External Affairs and a Minister from the Ministry of External Affairs to the Ministry of Finance not because he wanted it, but because he was directed so by the RSS. One of my best friends, Shri Suresh Prabhu, was made to leave the Cabinet. He was one of the best Ministers among the MPs. We all know what are the reasons. There are remote controls in this country which direct that you remove this man and keep another man, then only we will continue our support. If this is going to happen, then … (Interruptions) SHRI KHARABELA SWAIN : It is better to be influenced by RSS than being influenced by Italy. … (Interruptions) SHRI MANI SHANKAR AIYAR : Who is influenced by Italy? Sir, this is utterly insulting remark to make about an Indian citizen who has been elected by the Indian people to the Indian Parliament. I request that the Member should withdraw this utterly and unnecessary remarks. … (Interruptions) MR. SPEAKER: But he is not mentioning the name of your Party also. … (Interruptions) SHRI MANI SHANKAR AIYAR : How are we influenced by Italy? … (Interruptions) This Government is behaving like Benito Mussolini. If there is an influence of Italy, it is on this Government, not upon us. I do not know what he is talking about. … (Interruptions) SHRI PRAVIN RASHTRAPAL : Dr. B.R. Ambedkar has further questioned. … (Interruptions) I am not yielding because today you are not in a national dress, you are in a foreign dress. … (Interruptions) I am not yielding. Please take your seat. … (Interruptions) MR. SPEAKER: Shri Pravin Rashtrapal, please conclude. … (Interruptions) SHRI PRAVIN RASHTRAPAL : I further quote : Today, we are facing this very situation. The entire country, the entire Opposition Parties and four partners of the NDA allies admit and request that we should wait for the judgment of the court. But the hon. Prime Minister is in great hurry on the basis of the Challenge of Truth book’s `Satyamev Jayate’-- Truth alone triumphs -- published by Shri Ram Janamabhoomi Nyasa. I know from where the hon. Prime Minister has quoted. He says that he has in his possession a proof in support of Ram Temple where the Babri Mosque was there. That hint he is taking from a judgement of a British judge. There is no archaeological or historical evidence, but a British judge had referred in his judgment on 18th March, 1886 that the Babri Mosque was constructed on the border of Ayodhya town, which, according to Hindus, is a pious land. That is the only statement. It is not exactly said by the judge that it was that very spot where Lord Rama was born. I have got the highest respect for Lord Rama, but I will complain against Lord Rama as a `Shambuk’ because he was directed to behave as a Maryada Puroshottam. It means he believed that a Scheduled Caste cannot perform pooja and `Shambuk’ was killed. But a God is a God. My God is my God and your God is your God. … (Interruptions) Yesterday, a Sadhu openly said in Delhi that christians should be beaten. He justified the killing of Father Stain in Orissa and we are all keeping quiet --we mean the Government. I want that if I make a mistake, you take an action against me. Likewise, whoever commits a mistake – whether he is from BJP, RSS … (Interruptions) MR. SPEAKER: Shri Pravin Rashtrapal, please conclude. SHRI PRAVIN RASHTRAPAL : Sir, I am concluding. What is important in the Indian Constitution is that there is a rule of law. There is a rule of law in this country and we should all abide by the rule of law. That is the essence of the Indian democracy. If you do not give justice to 25 crore people, it is not good. I have gone through the entire Address. The President has made reference in paragraphs 54 and 55. It is regarding separate Commission for Scheduled Tribes and some scholarship to be paid to the Scheduled Castes in the name of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar. But the hon. President has not made any mention about the atrocities committed on the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes every day and night. According to the official statistics, on an average, two or three women belonging to the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes are raped in this country and many murders take place. We had a case of Jhajjar. So, I say that there are many omissions and commissions. I want this Government to come out openly about what action they will take against the hon. Deputy Prime Minister who is facing a charge-sheet, what action they will take against the hon. Minister for Human Resource Development who is facing a charge-sheet and, last but not the least, what action the Government will take against the Indian Defence Minister who, instead of working in the Defence Ministry, is working in ‘National Defence Alliance’, NDA. With these words, I conclude my speech. डॉ. रघुवंश प्रसाद सिंह ( वैशाली ):अध्यक्ष महोदय, सरकार का अगले साल का क्या कार्यक्रम होगा, उसकी क्या नीतियां होंगी, उसके लिये हर बजट सत्र के पहले सरकार अपना भाषण तैयार करवाती है और महामहिम राष्ट्रपति जी से कहलवाती है। इस बार उनका लम्बा भाषण था जिस पर सारे देश में चर्चा है। उसी दिन लगा कि कानून बनाना पड़ेगा कि इतना लम्बा बोगस भाषण नहीं होना चाहिये। उसमें कुछ कार्यक्रम ही नहीं हैं, कुछ पालिसीज़ नहीं हैं। सब पुरानी बातों को गाने का काम किया गया है। श्री प्रभुनाथ सिंह ( महाराजगंज, बिहार ) : भाषण लम्बा नहीं होना चाहिये या बोगस नहीं होना चाहिये। डॉ. रघुवंश प्रसाद सिंह : हमारे बिहार में कहावत है कि भुस कौन विद्यार्थी बस्ता मोठ। यह चौपट सरकार है और ऐसा भाषण लेकर आयी है जिसमें केवल भूस है, दाना नहीं और इससे कुछ निकलने वाला नहीं है। अगले साल में क्या करने वाले हैं, हम नाम नहीं लेंगे लेकिन आये दिन मंत्रिमंडल में हेर:फेर, किसी को लेना, किसी को निकालना, क्या यही काम है? हम दावा करें और सरकार पर आरोप लगायें कि अयोग्य आदमी को बहाल करते हैं तो वह कहती है कि आप कैसे कहते हैं कि हम ऐसा करते हैं। सरकार योग्य आदमी को लाती है। अभी श्री प्रमोद महाजन को बाहर किया, उसके पहले श्री जेठमलानी को बाहर किया। कुछ समय पहले डा. सी.पी.ठाकुर को लिया, निकाला और फिर ले लिया। अध्यक्ष महोदय : क्या आपके भाषण में यही सब है? डॉ. रघुवंश प्रसाद सिंह : इस सरकार का कोई काम नहीं है। देश में भ्रष्टाचार का बोलबाला ऊपर से नीचे तक है। जब से यह सरकार आयी है, सभी जगह भ्रष्टाचार है। सन् १९५४ में पं. जवाहर लाल नेहरू प्रधान मंत्री थे, उस समय आचार्य कृपलानी ने आरोप लगाया था कि सरकार में भ्रष्टाचार है। उसी समय सन्थानम कमेटी का गठन किया गया था। उस रिपोर्ट में यह बात सामने आई थी। अध्यक्ष जी, महामहिम राष्ट्रपति जी के लम्बे अभिभाषण के क्लाज़ ३९ में केवल यू.टी.आई. के घोटाले का जिक्र किया गया है जिसके बारे में कहा गया है कि गम्भीर जांच घोटाला कार्यालय स्थापित किया जायेगा। लेकिन इसके अलावा और कहीं भ्रष्टाचार का जिक्र नहीं किया गया है। जब तक यह सरकार रहेगी, आने वाले सालभर में भ्रष्टाचार पर हमला करने का कोई कांम नहीं करेगी। इस सरकार के रहते भ्रष्टाचार और बढ़ेगा। 19.00 hrs. 

भ्रष्टाचार होगा, घोटाला होगा और इनका मत्रिमंडल भ्रष्टाचार में डूबा हुआ है। ये लोग दावा करें कि कौन से मंत्रालय में भ्रष्टाचार नहीं है। इसलिए यह देश के लिए बड़ी दुर्भाग्यपूर्ण स्थिति है।…( व्यवधान) श्री प्रभुनाथ सिंह : भ्रष्टाचार कहां-कहां है, आप बताइये, प्रमाण दीजिए, ऐसे ही मत बोलिये। डॉ. रघुवंश प्रसाद सिंह : कहां नहीं है, यह बताइये। गाये हुए गीत की तरह से फिर से खड़े मत हो जाइये। श्री प्रभुनाथ सिंह : इस तरह से असत्य मत बोलिये। अगर कहीं है तो बताइये, कहां भ्रष्टाचार है। डॉ. रघुवंश प्रसाद सिंह : तहलका वाला मामला दुनिया में उजागर हुआ, उस पर क्या कार्रवाई हुई। मंत्री का त्यागपत्र हुआ, पार्टी के दो लोग भ्रष्टाचार में हटाये गये।…( व्यवधान) डॉ.जसवन्त सिंह यादव :रघुवंश बाबू के मुंह से भ्रष्टाचार शब्द अच्छा नहीं लगता। उससे भ्रष्टाचार का अपमान होता है। आप भ्रष्टाचार का अपमान मत करिये। डॉ. रघुवंश प्रसाद सिंह : मैं देश को बता रहा हूं कि भ्रष्टाचार बढ़ेगा। क्योंकि मंत्रिमंडल द्वारा तैयार किया गया जो अभिभाषण है, उसमें भ्रष्टाचार पर कोई चिंता नहीं जताई गई है। इसका मतलब है कि इस राज में भ्रष्टाचार और बढ़ेगा, घोटाले होंगे।…( व्यवधान) श्री प्रभुनाथ सिंह : भ्रष्टाचार तो बिहार में आपकी सरकार से सीखना पड़ेगा, इसका प्रशिक्षण तो वहीं लेना पड़ेगा। डॉ. रघुवंश प्रसाद सिंह : आप लोग स्वयं उसके पंडित हैं, इसीलिए आप लोगों ने भ्रष्टाचार का जिक्र नहीं किया है। यदि भ्रष्टाचार में पकड़े जाते हैं तो इस विभाग से उस विभाग में कंधा बदली होती है। फाइनैन्स डिपार्टमैन्ट से विदेश विभाग में और विदेश विभाग से फाइनैन्स विभाग में अदला-बदली होती है। अफसरों की तरह से मंत्रियों के विभागों की भी अदला-बदली आप लोग करते हैं। ऐसा क्यों करते हैं, चूंकि जब भ्रष्टाचार नाक से ऊपर हो जाता है तो वह बर्दाश्त नहीं होता है, इसलिए कंधा बदलते हैं। एक आदमी दूसरा मुंह लगाकर फिर से जनता के पास भ्रम पैदा करने के लिए जाता है। श्री श्रीचन्द कृपलानी ( चित्तौड़गढ़ ): मुझे ऐसी जानकारी मिली है कि आर.जे.डी. जो आपकी पार्टी है, उसने पटना में भ्रष्टाचार बढ़ाने के लिए एक सैल खोल रखा है।…( व्यवधान) अध्यक्ष महोदय : आप उनकी बात क्यों सुनते हैं, आप आसन को एड्रैस कीजिए। डॉ. रघुवंश प्रसाद सिंह : आप लोग मंत्री क्यों नहीं बनाये गये, कभी आप लोगों को बनाते हैं, कभी बाहर करते हैं।…( व्यवधान) अध्यक्ष महोदय : सदन का समय खराब मत कीजिए। डॉ. रघुवंश प्रसाद सिंह : इसमें इनके जितने आदमी खड़े होते हैं, इनका नाम कहीं नहीं आता है। ये लोग इसीलिए रखे गये हैं कि जब हम बोलेंगे तो ये लोग खड़े हो जायेंगे। जितना सत्र अभी तक बीता है, क्या आप लोगों का नाम कभी आया है। बोलने में इनका नाम कहीं नहीं आया है। श्री श्याम बिहारी मिश्र : आपके खिलाफ बोलने वाला कोई नहीं है। डॉ. रघुवंश प्रसाद सिंह : केवल यही लोग बोलेंगे, इन लोगों का नाम बोलने के लिए कभी नहीं आता है। ये लोग जनता की समस्याएं नहीं उठा सकते हैं। ये केवल इसी काम के लिए रखे गये हैं। श्री श्रीचन्द कृपलानी : अध्यक्ष महोदय, मुझे इस पर आपत्ति है। यह कह रहे हैं कि हमें इसी काम के लिए रखा गया है। हम जनता के चुने हुए प्रतनधि हैं। हमें यहां किसने रखा है। आप कह रहे हैं कि यहां हम लोगों को रखा गया है। जबकि हमें जनता ने चुनकर भेजा है। अध्यक्ष महोदय : आठ बजे तक हमें यह डिबेट कम्पलीट करनी है। कृपया आप उन्हें डिस्टर्ब मत कीजिए, उन्हें कांटीन्यू करने दीजिए। श्री श्रीचन्द कृपलानी : भ्रष्टाचार के मसीहा इस तरह की बात करते हैं तो अच्छा नहीं लगता है।…( व्यवधान) डॉ.जसवन्त सिंह यादव :अध्यक्ष महोदय, यह श्रीमती कांति सिंह को बोलने नहीं देते हैं। उन्हें इन्होंने दबा रखा है। डॉ. रघुवंश प्रसाद सिंह : कांति सिंह आपसे ज्यादा बोलती हैं। इस तरह से संसद को नीचा दिखाने का काम इस सरकार ने किया है, कैसे किया है, सैन्ट्रल वजिलैन्स कमीशन के बारे में मैं बताता हूं। सुप्रीम कोर्ट ने जब निर्देश दिया तो इसके लिए कानून बना, उसने कहा यह अवैध आयोग क्यों चला रहे हो। नदियों को जोड़ने वाले मसले पर सुप्रीम कोर्ट ने कनैठी दी, तब इन्होंने उस पर एक्ट किया। गोदामों में अनाज सड़ रहा था, उस पर सुप्रीम कोर्ट ने कनैठी दी कि अनाज का बंटवारा क्यों नहीं हो रहा है, क्यों गरीब भूखे मर रहे हैं।…( व्यवधान)इस तरह से हम लोग यहां संसद की सुप्रीमेसी और संसद की सॉवरेनटी के लिए लड़ते रहते हैं, सवाल उठाते रहते हैं। आप हम लोगों के संरक्षक हैं। लेकिन सरकार का बर्ताव हमेशा पार्लियामैन्ट को नीचा दिखाने और कमजोर करने का होता है। इस कारण सुप्रीम कोर्ट से रहा नहीं जाता है और राजनीति के अपराधीकरण में सुप्रीम कोर्ट को फैसला देना पड़ा। हम लोग यहां बहस करते रहे कि सुप्रीम कोर्ट कौन होता है, कानून बनाने वाले हम हैं। इस सरकार के समय में संसद को भी नीचा दिखाने का काम हुआ है। इसलिए सुप्रीम कोर्ट अनेक ऐसे मौकों पर कहती रहती है और हम उसकी आलोचना करने लगते हैं कि ज्यूडीशियल एक्टिविज़्म हो रहा है। जब सरकार ठीक काम करने वाली नहीं रहेगी तो हर जगह उसका असर पड़ेगा और आप ही ठेकेदार नहीं हैं देश के लिए, हर इंस्टीटयूशन जो डैमोक्रेसी में है, हर इंस्टीटयूशन अपना अपना काम करेगा। इसलिए यह चार-पांच उदाहरण मैं दे रहा हूँ। महोदय, ठंड का सौ वर्षों का रेकार्ड टूट गया। सौ वर्षों में इस तरह की ठंड नहीं पड़ी कि १००० लोग मर गए। जीव-जंतु मर गए, सांप भी मर गए। सांप बिलों से बाहर निकल निकलकर मर गए। पर्यावरण पर उसका बुरा असर पड़ा है, फसलें बरबाद हुई हैं। पान की फसल तक बरबाद हो गई। इतनी ठंड सौ वर्षों में नहीं पड़ी। श्री प्रभुनाथ सिंह : साँपों के लिए इन्होंने कागज़ के बहुत अलाव जलवाए, तब भी साँप मर गये। …( व्यवधान) डॉ. रघुवंश प्रसाद सिंह :गिद्ध भी मर गए। गिद्ध के लिए ब्रिटेन के मंत्री यहां आए तो उन्होंने बयान दिया कि इस देश में गिद्ध और नेता एक तरह के हैं। नेता बढ़ रहे हैं लेकिन गिद्ध घट रहे हैं। यहां पर ब्रिटेन के मंत्री ने आकर ऐसा बयान दिया। इस सरकार के व्यवहार से केवल देश में ही नहीं, दुनिया के दूसरे देशों में भी हमारी फजीहत हो रही है। …( व्यवधान) एक माननीय सदस्य : क्या वह बिहार गए थे? डॉ. रघुवंश प्रसाद सिंह :बिहार नहीं, वे आपके यहां आए थे। अध्यक्ष महोदय : माननीय सदस्य व्यवधान न करें, उनको बोलने दें। डॉ. रघुवंश प्रसाद सिंह : ठंड के लिए भी सुप्रीम कोर्ट ने केन्द्रीय सरकार को नोटिस जारी किया कि सरकार की जवाबदेही है चूँकि यह प्राकृतिक आपदा है और प्राकृतिक आपदा से जनता को बचाना और राहत पहुँचाना सरकार का प्राथमिक दायित्व है, लेकिन इन लोगों के पास कोई योजना और बचाने का कार्यक्रम नहीं है। इसी तरह से बिजली का संकट देश में है। बिजली के बिना कोई विकास नहीं हो सकता। हमने संपूर्ण ७९ क्लॉज़ को पढ़कर देखा है। हमारे देश में पनबिजली की पोटेन्शियेलिटी दुनिया में सबसे अधिक है। …( व्यवधान) श्री प्रभुनाथ सिंह : महोदय, क्या समता पार्टी का नाम नहीं है? अध्यक्ष महोदय : समता पार्टी का जो समय था, उसमें से आधा समय आपके पहले वक्ता मंडल जी ने ले लिया। अभी समता पार्टी का रूटीन में जब नंबर आएगा तो आपको बुलाएंगे। श्री प्रभुनाथ सिंह : महोदय, हम यहां से पूछकर गए थे। अगर उनको हमारा सब समय दे दिया तो कोई बात नहीं। अध्यक्ष महोदय : सब समय नहीं लिया है। आधा समय लिया है। श्री प्रभुनाथ सिंह : महोदय, हम पूछकर गए थे। लेकिन यह सिस्टम अच्छा नहीं है। वे हमारी पार्टी से निलंबित हैं, हमारी पार्टी का समय उनको कैसे मिल सकता है, यह हम जानना चाहते हैं। DR. NITISH SENGUPTA : Sir, the Trinamool party is a 9-Member party.… (Interruptions) अध्यक्ष महोदय : Shri Prabhunath Singh, if on record of Parliament, he is not a Member of your party, मंडल जी के बारे में आपने जो कहा है, मैं उसको देख लेता हूँ। श्री प्रभुनाथ सिंह : हम गए भी थे तो कहकर गए थे। हमें बताया गया कि इतने समय बाद समय आएगा और उसके अनुसार हम आपके सामने खड़े हैं। …( व्यवधान) अध्यक्ष महोदय : कुछ भी हो, मैं एक वक्ता का नाम लेने के बाद आपको समय दूँगा। DR. NITISH SENGUPTA : Sir, our party is a 9-Member party, and the name of speaker from our party was given yesterday. But still I have not been called… (Interruptions) श्रीमती जयश्री बैनर्जी ( जबलपुर ) :हमारा नाम भी है, हम कब से बैठे हैं। MR. SPEAKER: He is just concluding. डॉ. रघुवंश प्रसाद सिंह :मैं खत्म कर रहा हूँ। महोदय, पनबिजली की खासकर पूर्वोत्तर राज्यों में जो क्षमता है, उसका राष्ट्रपति जी के अभिभाषण में कोई ज़िक्र नहीं है। प्रधान मंत्री ग्राम सड़क योजना का ज़िक्र है। प्रधान मंत्री ग्राम सड़क योजना में मैं एक व्यावहारिक सवाल उठाना चाहता हूँ कि जिला से ब्लॉक तक चौपट सड़क है। ब्लॉक के बाद भी महत्वपूर्ण सड़कें जो पहले से पीडब्लूडी या आरईओ की हैं, वे चौपट हैं। उसके बाद पक्की सड़क से गांवों को जोड़ने का, कहीं दो किलोमीटर, तीन किलोमीटर सड़क खूब अच्छी हो जाए और पचास किलोमीटर सड़क चौपट रहे तो उसका कोई मतलब नहीं रहता। थोड़ा प्रैक्टीकल होकर, प्रधान मंत्री ग्राम सड़क योजना की तरफ ध्यान देना चाहिए। मैं आपसे प्रार्थना करता हूं कि इस पर बहस चलानी चाहिए। घूम-फिर कर केवल स्वर्ण चतुर्भुज की ही बात करना ठीक नहीं है। महोदय, शेरशाह सूरी ने तो पेशावर से दिल्ली होते हुए कलकत्ता तक चार वर्ष में ग्रांड ट्रंक रोड तैयार करा दिया था और यह सरकार रोजाना इसका जिक्र करती है, दुनिया भर की टेंशन ले रही है, लोन ले रही है, लेकिन उसके बाद भी स्वर्ण चतुर्भुज सड़क नहीं बन रही है। हम कई वर्षों से सुन रहे हैं, लेकिन अभी तक यह स्वर्ण चतुर्भुज मार्ग तैयार नहीं हुआ है। अध्यक्ष महोदय : डॉ. रघुवंश प्रसाद सिंह जी, अब आप बैठिए। डॉ. रघुवंश प्रसाद सिंह : महोदय, इस सरकार का कोई एजेंडा नहीं है। इस सरकार ने कहा था कि नैशनल जुडीशियरी कमीशन बनाएंगे, वह अभी तक नहीं बना। जुडीशियरी में अनुसूचित जाति एवं अनुसूचित जाति के आरक्षण की बात थी, उसके ऊपर भी सरकार मौन बैठी है। मैं आपके माध्यम से निवेदन करना चाहता हूं कि इन सभी सवालों पर सरकार अपनी स्थिति स्पष्ट करे। जो अनुसूचित जाति एवं जनजाति तथा पिछड़े वर्ग के लोग हैं, जो देश के गरीब, दबे-पिसे लोग हैं, जो गांवों के लोग हैं, उनके उत्थान के लिए सरकार की कोई नीति नहीं है। यह सरकार जन-विरोधी, गरीब-विरोधी और किसान-विरोधी सरकार है। इसलिए मैं राष्ट्रपति महोदय के अभिभाषण पर सदन में प्रस्तुत धन्यवाद के प्रस्ताव का विरोध करता हूं। श्री वीरेन्द्र कुमार ( सागर ):माननीय अध्यक्ष महोदय, मैं डा. विजय कुमार मल्होत्रा द्वारा माननाय राष्ट्रपति जी के अभिभाषण पर प्रस्तुत धन्यवाद के प्रस्ताव का समर्थन करने के लिए खड़ा हुआ हूं। सर्वाधिक लोगों की पसन्द की और सर्वाधिक लोगों द्वारा चुनी हुई एवं सर्वाधिक क्षेत्रों का प्रतनधित्व करने वाली एन.डी.ए. की सरकार माननीय अटल बिहारी वाजपेयी के नेतृत्व में पिछले पांच वर्षों से चल रही है। हमारी सरकार ने अनेक महत्वपूर्ण कार्य किए हैं जिससे सरकार ने राष्ट्रीय एवं अन्तर्राष्ट्रीय स्तर पर ख्याति प्राप्त की है। इसके कारण कांग्रेस के लोग लगातार प्रयास करते रहे हैं कि किसी भी प्रकार से इस सरकार के घटक दलों में मतभेद पैदा किया जाए और सरकार को गिरा दिया जाए, लेकिन उन्हें लगातार असफलता का सामना करना पड़ रहा है और एन.डी.ए. की सरकार अपना कार्यकाल सफलतापूर्वक करती हुई चली आ रही है। एन.डी.ए. सरकर पिछले पांच वर्षों से लगातार एक के बाद एक सफलताएं प्राप्त कर रही है। अध्यक्ष महोदय, जम्मू-कश्मीर में विधान सभा चुनाव सफलता पूर्वक संपन्न हुए। किसी भी लोक तांत्रिक देश में वहां की चुनाव प्रक्रिया, लोकतांत्रिक मूल्यों की परीक्षा की कसौटी होती है। जम्मू-कश्मीर में आतंकवादियों की धमकी के बावजूद, उनकी गतवधियों के चलते, एन.डी.ए. की सरकार ने माननीय अटल बिहारी वाजपेयी जी की सरकार ने द्ृढ इच्छा शक्ति का परिचय देकर, चुनाव कराने का जो साहसिक निर्णय लिया, मैं उसके लिए जहां एन.डी.ए. की सरकार को धन्यवाद देना चाहता हूं वहां जम्मू-कश्मीर की जनता का आभार व्यक्त करना चाहता हूं कि उन्होंने चुनावों में सफलता पूर्वक भाग लेकर, लोकतांत्रिक प्रक्रिया और लोकतांत्रिक मूल्यों के प्रति विश्वास और आस्था प्रकट की है और उसके प्रति उन्होंने अपनी जागृति का परिचय दिया है। महोदय, जहां तक आतंकवाद की बात है, सीमा पार से आतंकवाद की घटनाएं बहुत समय से होती चली आ रही है। वे घटनाएं अब विकराल रूप धारण कर चुकी हैं। एन.डी.ए. की सरकार से पहले जो लोग सत्ता में रहे, उनकी उदासीनता के चलते ये परिस्थितियां देश में पैदा हो गईं। उसी का परिणाम है कि व्यापक रूप से आतंकवादी गतवधियां हो रही हैं और वे सीमा पार से प्रायोजित की जा रही हैं। हमारी सरकार ने न केवल सीमा पार से प्रायोजित आतंकवादी गतवधियों को ठप्प करने और उनका द्ृढ़ता से मुकाबला करने का निर्णय लिया है बल्कि विश्व जनमत जुटाने में भी सफलता पाई है। इसी के कारण एजाज पठान एवं इकबाल शेख कासकर को संयुक्त अरब अमीरात से भारत में लाया गया है। 19.14 hrs.(Mr. Deputy Speaker in the Chair) 

उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, छोटा शकील, छोटा राजन और अबू सलेम को भी पुर्तगाल से प्रत्यावर्तित कराने के लिये प्रयत्नशील है। हमारी सरकार की ओर से आतंकवादियों को खत्म करने की दिशा में ये सार्थक प्रयास किए जा रहे हैं और हमारी सरकार अपने देश से आतंकवाद को खत्म करने के लिए द्ृढ़ संकल्प है। महोदय, किसी भी देश की यदि अर्थव्यवस्था को चौपट करना हो, तो उसके अंदर चोरी-छिपे घुसपैठ कराना, उस देश की अर्थ व्यवस्था को समाप्त करने का एक आसान तरीका है। हमारे देश में बंगलादेश से घुसपैठ के परिणाम अब भयंकर रूप में हमारे सामने आ रहे हैं। यह समस्या कोई आज की समस्या और अभी हाल की घटनाओं का परिणाम नहीं है। बंगला देश से घुसपैठ आज से नहीं बल्कि हमारी पूर्ववर्ती सरकारों के समय से होती रही और उनकी इस बारे में ठोस नीतियां नहीं होने एवं शथिलता बरतने के परिणाम स्वरूप इस समस्या ने आज विकराल रूप धारण कर लिया है। बंगलादेशी घुसपैठियों के कारण हमारी अर्थव्यवस्था आज छिन्न-भिन्न होने के कगार पर पहुंची है। हमारे देश में बंगलादेश से २ करोड़ लोग धीरे-धीरे घुसपैठ कर के आ चुके हैं जिसके कारण उनके प्रवास पर, उनके रहन-सहन पर, उनके परिवहन और अन्य सुविधाओं पर भारी खर्च करना पड़ रहा है जो हमारे देश की अर्थव्यवस्था पर बहुत बड़ा बोझा है। यह बहुत चिन्ता की बात है। हमारी सरकार ने इस बारे में भी गंभीरता से चिन्तन किया। अभी पिछले दिनों २१३ लोगों को बंग्लादेश वापस भेजने की प्रक्रिया प्रारम्भ हुई। उन्हें वापस भेजा गया और बाकी लोगों की भी पहचान करके, जो अनधिकृत रूप से दूसरे रास्तों से हमारे देश में घुसपैठ हुआ है, सरकार उसके लिए द्ृढ़ संकल्प है और इस बात के लिए लगातार प्रयास कर रही है। इस बारे में केवल एनडीए ही नहीं बल्कि बाकी सभी राजनीतिक दलों को भी, दलगत राजनीति से ऊपर उठ कर सहयोग करना चाहिए। यह देश का सवाल है, इसलिए इस पर सारे राजनैतिक दलों को गंभीरता से चिन्तन करना चाहिए कि जो बाहर से आए हुए अनधिकृत घूसपैठिए हैं, ये हमारे देश की अर्थव्यवस्था बिगाड़ने में लगे हुए हैं। इस पर सामूहिक रूप से मिल कर विचार करना चाहिए कि कैसे इसका निदान निकाला जाए, कैसे इसे खत्म किया जाए। एनडीए की सरकार ने पिछले दिनों देश के विकास के लिए जो कुछ निर्णय लिए, जो कार्यक्रम बनाए, वे हमारे सामने हैं। प्रधानमंत्री ग्राम सड़क योजना ने गांवों के विकास में रक्त धमनियों का काम किया है। हम जब गांवों में जाते हैं, वहां बुजुर्गों और महिलाओं को देखते हैं, उनके लिए यह सपने की बात लगती है। वे कहते हैं कि हमने कभी सोचा भी नहीं था कि हमारे गांव में ऐसे पक्के रोड बनेंगे, एनएच हाईवे बनेंगे। ऐसे बहुत सारे गांव हजारों की संख्या में हैं, जहां वर्षा के दिनों में बहुत समय तक जिला विकास खंड मुख्यालय से कट जाते थे। वर्षा के दिनों में जब किसी महिला को प्रसूति होनी होती थी, कोई गंभीर रूप से गांव में बीमार हो जाता था तो उसे खाट पर लेकर जब गांव के लोग जाते थे, उस समय नदी-नाले तोड़ कर वे जाते थे। वे कई बार नदी पार नहीं कर पाते थे और प्रसूति महिला रास्ते में ही दम तोड़ देती थी। बीमार व्यक्ति अस्पताल तक न पहुंच पाने के कारण रास्ते में दम तोड़ देता था। माननीय वाजपेयी जी ने हमारे देश की जनता के दुख-दर्द तो, उनकी भावनाओं का अनुभव किया। एनडीए की सरकार प्रधानमंत्री ग्राम सड़क योजना के माध्यम से, ५०० की आबादी से लेकर २००० तक की आबादी वाले गांवों को विकास खंड से जोड़ने का जो यह कार्यक्रम बनाया, इतिहास के पन्नों में अंकित किए जाने वाला यह कार्य है। मैं वाजपेयी जी को इस कार्य के लिए धन्यवाद देना चाहता हूं, उनका आभार मानना चाहता हूं। क्रांति के क्षेत्र में, कई क्षेत्रों में बहुत से कार्य एनडीए की सरकार द्वारा ए गए। ५० वर्षों में जितने फोन दिए गए, उसकी तुलना अगर हम एनडीए की सरकार के कार्यों से करें तो चार वर्ष के कार्यकाल में इतने फोन एनडीए की सरकार में दिए गए, जितने कि ५० वर्षों में दिए गए थे। महोदय, आज फोन के लिए किसी को वेट नहीं करनी पड़ती। आप इसके लिए फार्म भरिए, तुरंत फोन मिल जाता है। जहां १४ लाख लोगों के पास मोबाईल था, आज एक करोड़ से ज्यादा लोगों के पास है। स्कूटर और गैस कनैक्शन के लिए कोई वेटिंग सूची नहीं है। आप तुरंत जाकर गैस कनैक्शन ले सकते हैं। ये भारतीय जनता पार्टी की सरकार की उपलब्धियां हैं। राष्ट्रीय राज मार्गों के विकास के लिए, किसी भी देश के विकास के लिए उन्नत, समृद्ध और अच्छी सड़कें सहायक होती हैं। राष्ट्रीय राज मार्ग विकास परियोजना, जो हमारी एनडीए की सरकार द्वारा लाई गई, ५० वर्षों में जो कार्य होना चाहिए था, वह पूर्ववर्ती सरकारों द्वारा नहीं किया गया। मात्र ५५६ किलोमीटर सड़कें पूर्ववर्ती सरकारों द्वारा बनाई गई। एनडीए सरकार के सत्ता में आने के बाद १५,००० किलोमीटर मार्ग, राष्ट्रीय राज मार्ग विकास परियोजना के अंतर्गत बनाए जाने हैं। जिस पर २० करोड़ रुपए प्रतिवर्ष खर्च होने हैं। छ: से आठ किलोमीटर मार्ग, जो चार और छ: लाइनों वाला बन रहा है, उसका समय से पहले कार्य पूरा हो चुका है। यह न केवल पूरा हो चुका है बल्कि इन सारे कार्यों में लाखों मजदूरों और हजारों कारीगरों को रोजगार मिल रहा है। सीमेंट, लौहा, हमारे सारे कारोबार और व्यापार पर उसका प्रभाव देखने को मिला है। देश की अर्थव्यवस्था के लिए न केवल इन सड़कों के माध्यम से आवागमन के साधन सुलभ होंगे, बल्कि देश के व्यापार और व्यवसाय को बढ़ाने में भी सहायक सिद्ध होंगे। ये एनडीए की सफलताएं हैं। उसने अपने सीमित कार्यकाल में किस तरह देश की सड़कों के लिए, कृषि के लिए और उससे संबंद्ध व्यवस्थाओं के लिए ४५ हजार करोड़ रुपए की कर्ज की व्यवस्था थी, उसे बढ़ा कर पिछले तीन वर्षों में ७५ हजार करोड़ रुपए किया गया। अनुसूचित जाति और अनुसूचित जनजाति के जो हमारे बन्धु हैं, पूर्ववर्ती सरकारों के समय में, संयुक्त मोर्चे की सरकार के समय में जिसको कांग्रेस का समर्थन प्राप्त था, तब पांच ओ.एम्स. आये थे जिसके कारण अनुसूचित जाति और अनुसूचित जनजाति के बन्धुओं का प्रमोशन प्रभावित हो रहा था। एन.डी.ए. की सरकार ने सत्ता में आने के बाद उन पांच ओ.एम्स. में से तीन ओ.एम्स. वापिस ले लिये और दो के लिए वह प्रयास कर रही है। अब सफाई कर्मचारियों के लिए जो लम्बे समय से सिर पर मैला ढोने की प्रथा चली आ रही है, कांग्रेस की सरकार के समय तो केवल बातें की जाती थीं लेकिन द्ृढ़ता के साथ उसे खत्म करने का प्रयास नहीं किया गया। एन.डी.ए. की सरकार सत्ता में आने के बाद से सफाई कर्मचारियों के सिर पर मैला ढोने की प्रथा को न केवल समाप्त करने के लिए प्रतिबद्ध है बल्कि उनको पुनस्र्थापित करके, उनका सामाजिक जीवन स्तर, आर्थिक जीवन स्तर, शैक्षणिक जीवन स्तर ऊंचा उठाने के लिए भी यह सरकार प्रयासरत् है। इसी तरह मैटि्रकोत्तर छात्रवृत्ति जो हमारे एस.सी लोगों के छात्रों को मैटि्रक के बाद दी जाती है, उन सफाई कर्मचारियों के बच्चों को तीसरी कक्षा से ही वह छात्रवृत्ति दी जाती है। इतना ही नहीं बल्कि उन छात्रों को विदेश में उच्च शिक्षा प्राप्त करने के लिए अम्बेडकर छात्रवृत्ति देने की योजना भी प्रारंभ की गयी है।…( व्यवधान)आपने चूंकि घंटी बजा दी है इसलिए मैं ज्यादा समय न लेते हुए केवल दो बिन्दुओं को कहकर अपनी बात समाप्त करता हूं। संवैधानिक समीक्षा आयोग की जब चर्चा चल रही थी तो हमारे मित्रों ने काफी शोर मचाया था लेकिन वह दलितों के हित में थी। आज हमारे सारे मित्र चुप बैठे हैं। कोई भी इस पर कमेंट्स नहीं करता। जहां तक बंगलादेश के घुसपैठियों का सवाल है, आज दो करोड़ घुसपैठिये हमारे देश इस कारण आये कि हमारे राजनैतिक दलों ने उसको वोट बैंक का साधन बनाया। इसको संयोग ही कहेंगे कि बंगलादेश की सीमा से लगे हुए जितने भी राज्य हैं, उन राज्यों में हमारे सामने बैठे हुए मित्रों की ही सरकारें रहीं जिन्होंने वहां पर उनको आने के लिए न केवल स्थापित करने में बल्कि उनका राशन कार्ड बनवाने में, मतदाता सूचियों में उनका नाम जुड़वाने में उन सबका सहयोग रहा है। उसके चलते आज हमारे देश में घुसपैठियों की समस्या इतने विकराल रूप में सामने आई है। …( व्यवधान) श्री अब्दुल हसनत खां ( जंगीपुर ):यह ठीक नहीं है। …( व्यवधान) श्री वीरेन्द्र कुमार : जो सच्चाई है, उसे आपको स्वीकार करना पड़ेगा।…( व्यवधान) आज बंगला देश में जो कुछ हो रहा है, वह आपको हमसे ज्यादा मालूम है।…( व्यवधान) SHRI AJOY CHAKRABORTY ( BASIRHAT ): Sir, he is misleading the House… (Interruptions) MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: Shri Virendra Kumar, you have to conclude now. श्री वीरेन्द्र कुमार : माननीय उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, स्वजलधारा कार्यक्रम में केन्द्र सरकार ने ९० कदम आगे बढ़ाकर गांव तक पानी पहुंचाने का जो निर्णय लिया है, वह बहुत उपयोगी है। इसके तहत ९० प्रतिशत राशि केन्द्र सरकार देगी और बाकी की १० प्रतिशत राशि वहां की पंचायत देगी या लोगों का समुदाय मिलकर उस राशि को देगा जिससे गांव-गांव तक पानी पहुंचेगा। इस योजना से भी छोटे कस्बों, छोटे मोहल्लो, टोलों आदि में जहां लोग अलग से रहते थे, उनके मन में यह विश्वास द्ृढ़ हुआ है कि केवल गावं तक ही पानी की व्यवस्था नहीं होगी बल्कि उनके यहां भी पानी की व्यवस्था हो सकती है। जो लोग किसी टोले में रहते हैं, पहाड़ी में रहते हैं या सुदूर क्षेत्र में रहते हैं, वे भी अगर १० प्रतिशत राशि की व्यवस्था कर लेते हैं तो स्वजलधारा योजना के अंतर्गत उनके यहां भी पानी पहुंच सकेगा। माननीय अटल बिहारी वाजपेयी के नेतृत्व में, एन.डी.ए. सरकार के चलते हुए इससे गांव के लोगों का सपना साकार हो सकेगा। इसके साथ मैं महामहिम राष्ट्रपति के अभिभाषण का आभार प्रदर्शन करने के लिए जो प्रस्ताव लाया गया है, मैं उसका समर्थन करते हुए अपनी वाणी को यहीं विराम देना चाहता हूं। SHRI E. AHAMED : Sir, would the Members from the smaller parties be called to speak? MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: We have to sit up to 9 o'clock. Everybody will get chance. You have to sit patiently. The smaller Parties also will get their chance but the only thing is that you have to wait your turn. *G. PUTTA SWAMY GOWDA ( HASSAN ): Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I thank you for giving me an opportunity to speak on the Motion of Thanks to the Hon. President’s Address. I am grateful to you, Sir, for permitting me to speak in my mother tongue Kannada. The President’s Address does not reflect any plan and programme of NDA Government. It is like a report. It has no specific objective to be achieved in future. It reveals very clearly the failure of the BJP Government’s functioning. Sir, I am sure that you are aware of the announcement made by this Government last year about the generation of employment. They had assured to provide jobs to at least one crore people in one year. This remained only a false promise and no jobs were generated for the poor people of this country. This Government has no commitment. They are experts in making false promises. According to the Planning Commission unemployment has increased by 16 percent. Further, it adds that the percentage of unemployment would increase steadily during the 10th Plan period. If this is the reality where have they generated jobs for the poor people? In fact, there is the sign of grave danger for the future of our nation. GDP growth rate has come down drastically from 5.5 percent to 4.4 percent despite their false claims of achievements in various sectors. There is progress neither in industry nor in agriculture sector. However, their false claims of achievement would continue. These promises are made by them to retain power at the Centre and in States. Few years ago agricultural sector was doing very well and the production of food grains had increased considerably. Unfortunately the growth rate in agricultural sector has come down drastically. Following a disastrous monsoon in which the average precipitation was 17 percent below normal, the kharif (autumn) __________________________________________________________________ 

*English translation of the speech originally delivered in Kannada. harvest of food grains fell by a whopping 19.1 percent. In many other years a decline in the kharif harvest has been made up by a bumper rabi (spring) harvest. But unfortunately this year the rabi harvest will also fall short of what it was last year. During BJP’s regime agriculture is in distress. All of these concerns relate, however, to the effect that the decline in agriculture will have on the rest of the economy. Although the effect of the poor monsoons and decline in harvest has only recently begun to be felt, there are accumulating signs of a rise in rural distress. The prices of coarse grains, which the rural poor mainly eat have gone up by 16.7 to 22.4 percent. The prices of potatoes and onions have gone up by more than 12 percent. These increases are vastly in excess of the rise in the consumer price index of 4.1 percent for industrial workers. The rise in rural food grain prices has pushed large numbers of people, who had stopped buying food grains from the Government run ration shops when market prices were low, back to buying their requirements from them. As a result the sale of food grains through the public distribution system has risen by almost 50 percent between April and November 2002 (from 16.7 million tonnes to 24.7 million tonnes). Drought hit States like Karnataka, Rajasthan and others are facing serious economic crises. The only way to prevent this is to start drought relief programmes on a war footing in the rural areas, where at least one member per family can be employed every day. I have reminded this matter to the NDA Government on several occasions. This gives the poor the purchasing power to take advantage of the Government’s ration and fair price shops and buy the grain they need. Karnataka Government has geared itself well to cope with this challenge but a substantial financial help to the State is awaited. The NDA Government took pride in announcing the National Agriculture Policy three years ago. But the net result of this policy is a big zero as everyone knows about it. They had also stated to root out poverty from the rural areas. This was an addition of another slogan and nothing else. At present poverty is rampant in the rural areas particularly during the regime of this NDA Government. They have not provided a proper credit facility to small and medium farmers. There is no marketing facility to the poor farmers. Agricultural produces do not get the remunerative prices. The Centre is breaking the backbone of farmers and the economy of our country is in jeopardy. The concession and subsidies given to the farmers are disappearing steadily. The future of the farmer is gloomy. During last year’s Budget the Central Government had committed to lift all the taxes and duties on imported agriculture implement. Quite understandably this commitment of the Centre remained in black and white and it was never implemented. There was a repeated demand by the growers to promote export of tea, coffee and tobacco. The Centre has done very little in this regard. The Centre is importing vegetable oils, edible oils and other commodities under WTO agreement. This has created a serious problem to our farmers who produce these oils. The traders now manage to make some money. They get all support and encouragement from the Centre. Farmers are the neglected lot in this country. The Centre has no concern about progress and all round development of the rural areas. Irrigation has been completely neglected by this Government. There is regional imbalance and the BJP Government has not given its thought set right this imbalance among the States. The ground water has gone down deep and rivers like Kaveri, Krishna, Thunga Bhadra have dried up. Urgent remedial steps have to be taken by the Centre to protect the farmers of this country. They have to give top priority to tackle the scarcity of water. The Hon. Supreme Court has also commented about the urgency and importance of linking rivers like Kaveri and Ganga. The Government of India very recently has made a number of statements and tall claims about linking rivers. I request the Centre to take this matter very seriously to implement these programmes of linking rivers. The Centre is fully aware of the long pending dispute between States in sharing river waters. Kaveri river water dispute between Karnataka and Tamil Nadu is several decades old. What have they done to resolve this problem? At least now, let the Centre wake up and find out a permanent solution to the Kaveri river water dispute. Desilting programme in the dams along Kaveri delta region should also be taken up on a war footing. The Centre should provide sufficient financial assistance to Karnataka for this programme of desiltation. The World Bank financial assistance can also be availed for this purpose. There is one more problem regarding sharing of Krishna river water. The dispute is between Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. As you know very well Sir, Karnataka is not getting its due share from Krishna river. The Centre should come forward and sort out this dispute between Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. The solution for water disputes make way for farmers’ progress. It will also provide a much needed fillip to the irrigational activities in the States. I therefore once again urge upon the hon. Prime Minister to call the meeting of all the concerned States and solve all the river water disputes once and for all. With these words, Sir, I thank you and conclude my speech. DR. NITISH SENGUPTA ( CONTAI ): Mr. Deputy-Speaker, Sir, thank you. I rise to support the Motion of Thanks on President’s Address proposed by Dr. Vijay Kumar Malhotra and seconded by Shri Suresh Prabhu. I think the President’s Address is a brilliant document. The biggest thing seems to be the continuation of vision. It is because very few statesmen have this kind of vision for the future. Panditji had a vision for this country. Rajiv Gahdhi had a vision. But many other Prime Ministers did not really have a vision in the overall sense in which the President has envisaged a vision for this country. Vision-2020 is worth supporting and worth emulating. Added to that, what is special about this is that providing urban amenities in the rural areas. This is a very new thing and a very original thing and I support it fully. The four critical connectivities which he has analysed is also very good. This document is an excellent signpost into the future, the kind of direction which this Government should follow and has been following. I think some of the things, like the Prime Minister’s Golden Quadrilateral which has been making tremendous progress is really good. In comparison to 500 kms. of big highways during the last fifty years, everyday practically five kms. are being added. This will be a great thing. It will be in addition to the Prime Minister’s Gram Sadak Yojana which is also really breaking new grounds. Mr. Deputy-Speaker, Sir, the Leader of the Opposition, in her intervention, complained about lack of jobs. I should like to say that along with de-regulation scenario, jobs as such in the conventional sense are not being created, but a lot of job opportunities are being created, especially in the informal sectors, in the non-formal sectors and in the service sectors. In fact, looking back all around, one does see that there has been a tremendous change and improvement in the situation of job opportunities which existed a few years ago. Today, generally people are getting employed in a lot of non-conventional ways. That is happening and that is really the world trend also. My friend, Shri Somnath Chatterjee complained about corruption. But Mr. Deputy-Speaker, Sir, I think those who live in glass houses should not throw stone at others. I think West Bengal has been the fountain head of corruption during the last so many years. I can only quote what others said. These are all not my views. Shri Binoy Choudhary, who was a senior Minister next to Shri Jyoti Basu once said that this Government has become a Government of the contractors, for the contractors, by the contractors. … (Interruptions) SHRI AJOY CHAKRABORTY : Shri Binoy Choudhary is not here. Why should he mention his name? … (Interruptions) DR. NITISH SENGUPTA : Recently, I think, the sitting MP from Madhurapur constituency made a statement. I have read his statement in the newspapers. He had complained that there is a mass scale misuse, diversion and mis-appropriation of MPLAD funds. The present Chief Minister himself once resigned ten years ago saying that he would not like to continue in a Government of thieves. I am just quoting from these things. So, West Bengal has been the hotbed of corruption in the last ten or fifteen years and not so much before that. So, they have no right to complain, no right to throw stones at others.… (Interruptions) MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: Are you authenticating all these quotations which you quoted? DR. NITISH SENGUPTA : Yes, I can authenticate.… (Interruptions) MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: I wanted to take it that he is authenticating those things. Suppose he says that he is not authenticating those things, it is a different matter. That is why, I wanted to know about it. … (Interruptions) MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: If they are authenticated, then you have got all other forms to take them up on the floor of the House. DR. NITISH SENGUPTA : One interesting and admirable achievement has been the way the drought was managed last year. It was one of the worst droughts in the recent memory. The way it had happened, we really did not feel much of an impact. Nobody died of starvation or anything. Enough arrangement was made all over the country. There, of course, I must thank the State Governments also because they had also played their part very well. The next point is that I fully support the excellent Address given by the President. I will say that this really is a signpost into the future. It also contains a lot of good account of what the Government has been doing in the last few years. There are problems, no doubt, like the problems of secularism and the growth of fanaticism in various sections. There, I should say that we should really try to evolve a kind of consensus. The President himself has said that the various differing groups should sit together and try to work out some solution or we should abide by the judicial verdict. All these talks about communalism, Hindutva and secularism are going on. I should say that in true Hindutva, secularism is ingrained. That is why, 82 per cent of the people of this country, who are Hindus loosely, decided that India shall be a secular country. We are proud of that tradition. We shall continue with that tradition, come what may. With these words, I support the Motion of Thanks on the President’s Address. Thank you. MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: I thank you for a short presentation of your case. Now, Shri Prabhunath Singh to speak. श्री प्रभुनाथ सिंह ( महाराजगंज, बिहार ) : उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, राष्ट्रपति के अभिभाषण पर प्रो. विजय कुमार मल्होत्रा जी द्वारा प्रस्तुत धन्यवाद प्रस्ताव का मैं समर्थन करने के लिए खड़ा हुआ हूं। महोदय, चाहे केन्द्र में राष्ट्रपति का अभिभाषण हो या राज्य में राज्यपाल का अभिभाषण हो, अभिभाषण एक दर्पण के रूप में होता है, जिसमें बीते हुए कार्यों का जिक्र, आज हम क्या करने जा रहे हैं उसकी सूचना और आगे क्या करने वाले हैं, यह उसमें झलकता है। राष्ट्रपति जी के अभिभाषण में ये सब चीजें हैं, लेकिन यह दर्पण मेरी नजर में साफ नहीं है। दर्पण का कुछ हिस्सा साफ है, लेकिन कुछ हिस्से को देखने से लगता है कि यह केवल शब्दों का जाल है। शुरू में ही राष्ट्रपति जी ने अपने अभिभाषण में कहा है कि ग्रामीण क्षेत्रों में शहरी सुविधायें उपलब्ध कराई जायेंगी। मैं पूछना चाहता हूं, कौन सी शहरी सुविधायें गावों में उपलब्ध कराई जायेंगी?यदि सरकार की तरफ से इस पर वक्तव्य दिए जायेंगे, तो उस समय विचार रखेंगे। वास्तविकता यह है कि शहरी सुविधायें गावों तक ले जाने के लिए बजट में प्रावधान नहीं किया जाता है, केवल खानापूर्ति होती है। हम यह कहना चाहते हैं कि एक तरफ जहां शहर को सुन्दर दिखाने के लिए पानी के फव्वारे चलाए जाते हैं, वहीं दूसरी तरफ गांव सूखे की चपेट में होता है, गांव का किसान और मजदूर पानी के लिए तरसता रहता है तथा कुछ हिस्से बाढ़ से भी प्रभावित रहते हैं। राष्ट्रपति जी के अभिभाषण के माध्यम से गावों को शहरी सुविधायें देने की बात कही जा रही है, लेकिन मैं पूछना चाहता हूं कि क्या उन खेतों के लिए पानी की व्यवस्था की जाएगी, जो सूखे की मार से परेशान रहते हैं और क्या उन इलाकों में जहां बाढ़ से किसान परेशान रहते हैं, उनको बाढ़ से बचाने के लिए सरकार कोई कदम उठाएगी?मैं सरकार से जानना चाहूंगा कि जहां पर किसान और मजदूरों को आज भी नल का पानी उपलब्ध नहीं है, कुंआ भी नसीब नहीं है और वे गड्ढे का पानी पीते हैं, उन्हें शुद्ध जल देने के लिए सरकार कोई व्यवस्था करेगी? इस तरह का सिर्फ शब्द जाल बिछाने से हम यह नहीं मानते हैं कि शहर की तरह गांव हो जाएगे। जहां तक स्वास्थ्य सुविधाएं देने की बात है, उसकी भी अच्छी व्यवस्था नहीं है। रघुवंश बाबू का अखबारों में अच्छा बयान सुनने को मिलता है लेकिन उनका सदन में आते-आते बयान बदल जाता है। मैंने कुछ दिन पहले उनका अखबार में बयान पढ़ा था। बिहार का हवाला देते हुए और अपनी पार्टी के नेता का नाम लेकर उन्होंने कहा था कि राजनीतिक मैनेजमैंट में इनको सौ में से सौ नम्बर दिए जाएंगे। उसके साथ उन्होंने यह भी कहा था कि विकास और वधि व्यवस्था के नाम पर इनको जीरो नम्बर दिए जाएंगे। मैं यह सवाल इसलिए उठा रहा हूं कि आज इस सदन में एक सवाल पुलिस के आधुनिकीकरण का आया था। पुलिस का आधुनिकीकरण होता है और केन्द्र सरकार कहती है कि हम इसके लिए राज्यों को धन मुहैय्या कर रहे हैं। हम देख रहे हैं कि आज पुलिस जिलों में आधुनिक हथियार लेकर चल रही है। जितना धन इसके लिए मुहैय्या किया जाता है और जितना पुलिस का आधुनिकीकरण होता है, हम यह महसूस करते हैं कि उस हिसाब से अपराध की घटनाएं दिन-प्रतदिन बढ़ती जा रही हैं। कहीं-कहीं ऐसा देखने को मिल रहा है कि अपराधी मात्र किसी राज्य के लिए नहीं बल्कि केन्द्र के लिए भी चुनौती बन रहे हैं। उदाहरण के तौर पर हम वीरप्पन को याद कर सकते हैं। कर्नाटक और तमिलनाडु की सरकार के लिए जहां वीरप्पन चुनौती बना है वहीं भारत सरकार के लिए वह चुनौती बना है। लेकिन आज तक कोई सरकार उनके बारे में जान नहीं पायी। बिहार की चर्चा हम कहां तक करें? रघुवंश बाबू, वह करना ठीक भी नहीं होगा। बिहार बहुत अधिक गरीब राज्य हो चुका है इसलिए कि बिहार की राजधानी पटना में प्रतदिन धरना, प्रदर्शन, आन्दोलन हो रहे हैं । वहां कभी पुलिस निर्दोष छात्रों को मारती है और उसे लेकर धरना, प्रदर्शन तथा जुलूस निकाले जाते हैं और कहा जाता है कि सीबीआई से जांच कराओ। बिहार के सुपर मुख्यमंत्री कहते हैं कि हम सीबीआई से जांच करा देंगे। दूसरे दिन कहा जाता है कि पुलिस को गिरफ्तार करो। बिहार के सुपर मुख्यमंत्री कहते हैं कि हमने उन्हें गिरफ्तार करके जेल मं बंद कर दिया। तब तक दूसरे दिन अखबार में पढ़ने को मिलता है कि सेना का जवान छुट्ठी में आया और उस निर्दोष जवान को पुलिस गोलियों से भून देती है। वहां व्यवसायी का अपहरण होता है तो व्यवसायी सड़क पर आते हैं। डॉक्टर का अपहरण होता है तो डॉक्टर सड़क पर आते हैं। अब इससे भी बड़ा उदाहरण देखने को मिला कि किसी हीरा व्यापारी की पत्नी का राजस्थान में अपहरण हुआ और वह अपराधी बिहार में गिरफ्तार हुआ। यह बात प्रमाणित करती है कि बिहार सरकार अपराधियों पर नियंत्रण नहीं करती है। देश के अपराधी बिहार में संरक्षण लेकर अपनी जीविका चला रहे हैं। डॉ. रघुवंश प्रसाद सिंह : वह अपराधी भारत सरकार के मंत्री का दामाद है। यह बात जांच करके बताई जाए। हम जांच के लिए तैयार हैं। सांच को आंच क्या, जांच हो जाए। भारत सरकार जांच करके बताए कि जो अपराधी पकड़ा गया है क्या वह भारत सरकार के मंत्री का रिश्तेदार है या नहीं? …( व्यवधान) उपाध्यक्ष महोदय: ऐसा कंट्रोवर्शियल मैटर यहां न उठाएं। श्री प्रभुनाथ सिंह : मैं जानता हूं कि आप मुझे आधे घंटे से ज्यादा नहीं बोलने देंगे। मैं आधे घंटे में अपनी बात समाप्त कर दूंगा। उपाध्यक्ष महोदय: आपको पांच मिनट में खत्म करना है। अगर नहीं करेंगे तो मैं दूसरे वक्ता को बुलाऊंगा। श्री प्रभुनाथ सिंह : अभी जो समय का नुकसान हुआ है, उसे न जोड़ा जाए। उधर से ये लोग डिस्टर्ब कर रहे हैं। उपाध्यक्ष महोदय: डिस्टर्ब करने के लिए आप उन्हें बुला रहे हैं। आप उनको इसकी दावत दे रहे हैं। वह मत करिए। श्री प्रभुनाथ सिंह : जहां तक स्वास्थ्य के मामले में गांव और शहर की तुलना का सवाल है आज गांव से, देहात से और देश के हर कोने से लोग दिल्ली में इलाज कराने के लिए ऐम्स आते हैं। मद्रास के लोग नहीं आते हैं। कोलकाता के लोग भी बहुत कम आते हैं। इसका कारण यह है कि उन प्रदेशों में जांच की, अच्छे डॉक्टर की और दवा की सुविधा है लेकिन जिला मुख्यालयों में न अच्छे अस्पताल हैं, न दवा उपलब्ध है, न चकित्सक उपलब्ध हैं। जब तक केन्द्र सरकार राज्य से वार्ता करके जिला मुख्यालयों में कम से कम अस्पताल और चकित्सक की व्यवस्था नहीं कराएगी, केवल कागज पर लिख देना कि हम गांव में शहर की तरह सुविधा देंगे, यह कैसे होने वाला है? शहर में बिजली की जगमगाहट है लेकिन हमारे यहां भी कट चल रहा है। देहात की झोंपड़ी में दीया तक नहीं है। ऐसी परिस्थिति में यदि आप गांव शहर की तरह बनाना चाहते हैं तो गांवों में बिजली की व्यवस्था करनी पड़ेगी। उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, मैं केन्द्र सरकार और विशेषकर माननीय श्री अटल बिहारी वाजपेयी जी को बधाई देना चाहता हूं कि उन्होंने बिजली के मामले में उत्तर बिहार के लिये ३६५ करोड़ रुपये एक योजना के लिये स्वीकृत किये हैं। उसमें हमारे जिला छपरा के लिये ७५ करोड़ रुपये का अलग से डिस्ट्रीब्यूशन किया है। ग्रिड कारपोरेशन को कार्य की शुरुआत के लिये कहा है लेकिन उस कार्य को शुरु नहीं किया गया है। मैं आपके माध्यम से सरकार का ध्यान आकर्षित करना चाहता हूं कि प्रधानमंत्री जी को बधाई देते हुये कि जो ३६५ करोड़ रुपये की योजना स्वीकृत की है, उसे शीघ्र प्रारम्भ करने की कार्यवाही करें। उपाध्यक्ष जी, जहां तक विकास से जुड़े हुये कार्य हैं और जिनका जिक्र रघुवंश बाबू ने किया, उस संबंध में मेरा कहना है कि बिहार में सड़कों की स्थिति बहुत खराब है। कहना नहीं चाहिये कि * 

उपाध्यक्ष महोदय : यह शब्द कार्यवाही में नहीं जायेगा। डॉ. रघुवंश प्रसाद सिंह : नेशनल हाइवे की योजना स्वीकृत हुई है लेकिन आपकी सरकार नहीं कर रही है। यह स्पष्ट बताईये कि केन्द्र सरकार के पास पहले से यह योजना पड़ी हुई है। श्री अरुण कुमार ( जहानाबाद ): उपाध्यक्ष जी, ३५० करोड़ रुपये में से मात्र २८ करोड़ रुपया खर्च हुआ है। * Not Recorded. उपाध्यक्ष महोदय : अब समाप्त कीजिये, मैं अगला स्पीकर बुला लूंगा। श्री प्रभुनाथ सिंह : उपाध्यक्ष जी, मैं कह रहा था कि श्री रघुवंश बाबू ने नेशनल हाईवे के बारे में जो सवाल उठाया, उसके लिये हम केन्द्र सरकार को बधाई देना चाहते है कि ४ लेन या ६ लेन का राजमार्ग बनेगा जो देहाती इलाकों में लिंक सड़क के नाम पर स्वीकृत किये गये हैं। मैं बिहार की एक नेशनल हाईवे का उदारण देना चाहता हूं। नेशनल हाईवे-१०१ जो छपरा से मोहम्मदपुर तक जाता है, उस पर २ करोड़ ४८ लाख रुपये के खर्च के लिये राशि बिहार के पास १० महीने से गई हुई है लेकिन बिहार सरकार ने अभी तक नविदा तय नहीं की है। रुपया रहते हुये सड़कों के मरम्मत का कार्य नहीं हुआ है। * 

उपाध्यक्ष महोदय : यह शब्द कार्यवाही में नहीं जायेगा। डॉ. रघुवंश प्रसाद सिंह : उसमें टैंडर क्यों नहीं डिसाइड हुआ, उसमें कौन अपराधी सरगना है जो .यह नहीं होने दिया जा रहा है? श्री प्रभुनाथ सिंह : वही तो हम कह रहे हैं कि बिहार सरकार की आपकी सरकार पर अपराधी हावी हैं। इसलिये हम कहते हैं कि अपराधियों की सरकार है…( व्यवधान) डॉ. रघुवंश प्रसाद सिंह :भारत सरकार के मंत्रियों के नाम बताईये जो अपराधी हैं जहां भारत सरकार के मंत्री संरक्षित अपराधी हैं। …( व्यवधान) उपाध्यक्ष महोदय : अब आपका लास्ट सैनटेंस रहेगा क्योंकि अभी २४ स्पीकर्स हैं 

श्री प्रभुनाथ सिंह : अभी हमारा डेढ़ मिनट हुआ है। उपाध्यक्ष महोदय : कितना हुआ है। आपने १९.४१ बजे बोलना शुरु किया, ११ मिनट हो गये हैं, क्या आपको मालूंम है? श्री प्रभुनाथ सिंह : उपाध्यक्ष जी, मै बता रहा था कि माननीय प्रधानमंत्री जी को बधाई देने में कोई शंका नहीं क्योंकि उन्होंने प्रधान मंत्री ग्राम सड़क योजना चलाई है। एक किलोमीटर सड़क निर्माण में २२ लाख रुपये खर्च आते हैं। जब यह सड़क बनकर तैयार हो जायेगी तो देखने लायक होगी। मैं बिहार जैसे अभागे प्रान्त से आता हूं जिसका अभी तक टैंडर ही फाइनल नहीं किया गया है। रुपया मिलने पर काम शुरु नही होता है। मैं आपके माध्यम से सरकार से आग्रह करना चाहूंगा कि जो राज्य सरकार रुपया मिलने पर भी खर्च नहीं करती है, वहां अपने स्तर पर काम कराने के लिये केन्द्र सरकार को आल्टरनेटिव उपाय करना चाहिये। आप खानापूर्ति कर देंगे कि रुपया दे दिया, अगला अलाटमेंट नहीं देंगे, इसलिये कि रुपया खर्च नहीं हो रहा है, इस तरह राज्य का विकास नहीं हो सकता। * Not recorded 

राज्यों का बंटवारा करके एक तरह से इन्होंने बिहार सरकार का अहित किया है और उसके बाद रूपये के खर्च में जिस तरह की गड़बड़ी राज्य सरकार कर रही है और केन्द्र सरकार मौन होकर, मूकदर्शक बनी हुई है, इससे राज्यों का अहित हो रहा है। इसलिए उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, मैं केन्द्र सरकार से निवेदन करता हूं कि उस रूपये के सही खर्च के लिए वह अपने ढंग से कोई प्रयास करे।…( व्यवधान) MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: Please conclude now. श्री प्रभुनाथ सिंह : सर, आतंकवाद पर बोलकर हम बैठ जायेंगे। हम कहना चाहते हैं कि राष्ट्रपति जी के अभिभाषण में…( व्यवधान) श्रीमती जयश्री बैनर्जी ( जबलपुर ) :उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, यह कितना समय और लेंगे, हम लोगों को भी बोलना है। उपाध्यक्ष महोदय : मैं क्या करूं, जितने सदस्य बोल रहे हैं, वे दस मिनट की जगह १५ मिनट ले रहे हैं, समय से कंक्लूड नहीं कर रहे हैं। यदि मैम्बर्स से कोऑपरेशन नहीं आयेगा तो क्या हम हाउस चला सकते हैं। श्री प्रभुनाथ सिंह : उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, मैं आतंकवाद की चर्चा कर रहा था। इस पर स्वंय सरकार ने और स्वंय महामहिम राष्ट्रपति जी ने स्वीकार किया है कि आतंकवाद पड़ोसी देश के द्वारा शुरू किया गया है। इस आतंकवाद से निपटने के लिए हम सरकार की मंशा पर कोई शंका नहीं करते। सरकार की मंशा आतंकवाद से निपटने और देश की जनता को सुरक्षा देने की है। लेकिन इस मंशा के बावजूद जिस ढंग से कभी संसद पर हमला, कभी लाल किले पर हमला, कभी मंदिरों में पूजा करते हुए निहत्थे लोगों पर हमला होता है, यह बहुत दुर्भाग्यपूर्ण स्थिति है। आतंकवाद से निपटने के लिए केन्द्र सरकार ने सेना को आठ महीने तक सीमाओं पर तैनात करके रखे। सदन ने सरकार को पूरी शक्ति दी कि आप इससे निपटने के लिए जो भी कदम उठाना चाहते हैं उठाइये, हम आपके साथ हैं। लेकिन आठ महीने तक सीमाओं पर रहने के बाद* 

MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: Please do not use that word for our Armed Forces. श्री प्रभुनाथ सिंह : हमने सेना का मनोबल गिराने की बात कही है। उपाध्यक्ष महोदय : मनोबल गिराने की बात में यह शब्द मत बोलिजये। श्री प्रभुनाथ सिंह : इसलिए हम कहना चाहते हैं कि इस घटना से सेना का मनोबल 

* Not Recorded 

गिरा है और सेना के लोग जितनी दिलेरी और मुस्तैदी से लड़ने के लिए गये थे, वे अपना मनोबल गिराकर वापस आये हैं। उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, हम जानते हैं आप इससे ज्यादा हमें बोलने नहीं देंगे। हम आपको धन्यवाद देते हैं और राष्ट्रपति के अभिभाषण पर मल्होत्रा जी के प्रस्ताव का हम समर्थन करते हैं। SHRI AJOY CHAKRABORTY ( BASIRHAT ): Thank you hon. Deputy-Speaker Sir. We had the privilege of hearing the longest speech of hon. Rashtrapatiji in the Joint Session. We have tremendous respect for the hon. Rashtrapatiji, but I am sorry to say that after hearing the longest speech of hon. Rashtrapatiji, not only me, but most of the Members became frustrated. If you go through the entire speech, no basic problem of the country was spelt out in the Address of hon. Rashtrapatiji. Basic problems like poverty, unemployment, farmers’ plight, workers problems, drinking water problem, PDS were not spelt out in the Address of the hon. Rashtrapatiji. This BJP in their last election manifesto announced before the nation that after coming to power, the BJP will provide one crore jobs to the unemployed young men of this country. I ask my friends from BJP where is the promise which they focused in their manifesto. Where are the one crore jobs that they promised to our young men? At present, the young men of our country are not expecting jobs from the Government but they are praying from the Almighty to save the jobs of their fathers, uncles, maternal uncles who are thrown out of jobs. 20.00 hrs. 

Sir, thousands and thousands of people who are working in the public sector units and industries have been thrown out of their jobs. This Government is taking all the public sector units one by one and transferring them to the private sector. They are closing and destroying the basic structure of the industry, which was formed earlier, at the time of Pandit Jawharlal Nehru. They are closing down the public sector units one by one, including HPCL and BPCL. The profit-making prestigious concerns, HPCL and BPCL, are transferred to the private industrial companies. Even the profit-making public sector unit, ONGC, was not allowed to participate in the bidding system also. They are not allowed. This Government is protecting and looking after the interests of the big monopoly houses. They are not looking after the interests of the common people of the country. … (Interruptions) श्री शंकर प्रसाद जायसवाल ( वाराणसी ):मान्यवर, आठ बज गए हैं। क्या सदन का समय बढ़ाना है? MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: Please wait for a minute. The hon. Speaker, while leaving the Chair, has said that the House will have to continue up to nine o’ clock. I think, the House agrees to this. SOME HON. MEMBERS: Yes, Sir. SHRI AJOY CHAKRABORTY : Sir, shall I continue now? … (Interruptions) SHRI E. AHAMED : Sir, even by nine o’ clock, we may not be able to complete all the speeches. Anyway, it will have to be adjourned to another day. … (Interruptions) SHRI AJOY CHAKRABORTY : Sir, ONGC, which is one of the prestigious profit-making units, was not allowed to participate in the bidding system in respect of HPCL and BPCL. This Government is protecting the interests of the big monopoly houses. They are looking after the interests of the big industrial houses. They are not looking after the interests of the common people. I am compelled to say that this Government is for the Reliance, by the Reliance and of the Reliance. They are not looking after the interests of the common people. They are protecting the foreign and multi-national companies. Sir, a large number of people of this country are living below the poverty line. This Government is not protecting them. A large number of people of this country are facing starvation. The Public Distribution System has been totally broken down. Our godowns have full of foodgrains. The Public Distribution System is so bad and a large number of people are facing starvation. We are a witness to the starving situation prevailing in Koraput and Kalahandi districts of Orissa. The people of Orissa, particularly in Koraput and Kalahandi districts, are facing severe starvation conditions. So far as the educational system is concerned, this Government wants to change our History, this Government wants to change our Geography, and this Government wants to saffronise the country. They want to introduceJyotir Vigyan, which is neither art nor science. They are providing Rs. 14 lakh to the University for the introduction of Vedic Jyotir Vigyan and Vedic Arithmetic. In our country, so many villages are there without a primary school. There are a large number of villages, where there is no drinking water and no tube-well. Sir, this Government has failed to provide facilities to the common people who are living below the poverty line. At the time of curbing terrorism and preventing terrorism, the entire Opposition has supported this Government but this Government is not able to protect the innocent people from the hands of the terrorists. This Government has totally failed to curb and to prevent terrorism in the country. So far as our foreign policy is concerned, Sir, you know better than me. Our former Prime Minister, Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru was the founding father of the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM). India was the leader of the peace movement in the world. Our beloved Prime Minister, Pandit Nehru invited all those Third World countries and he was the founding father of the Non-Aligned Movement. But at the present time, this Government has utterly failed to take the leadership in the Non-Aligned Movement or to take the leadership in the peace movement of the world. In the President’s Address, there is only one-line mention about Iraq. This is very much a sorry affair. There was not a single condemnation against the warmongers, America and Britain, or against American imperialism. There is only one line in favour of Iraq. This Government has totally failed and they are not agreeing to adopt a unanimous Resolution against war and in favour of peace. This is their total failure in the foreign policy. They have shifted our age-old foreign policy on Non-Aligned Movement, which is a peaceful movement of the world. The Government has utterly and totally failed in its foreign policy on this sector. The BJP Party has pinpointed two problems, as if our country is suffering from these two problems, namely, construction of Ram temple at the disputed site in Ayodhya and cow slaughtering. The BJP Party thinks that these are the two problems we have and if they solve these two problems, our country will be the richest country in the world and our people will lead a prosperous life. So, barring all the other problems, they have pinpointed these two problems, namely the Ayodhya issue and cow slaughtering. The hon. Rashtrapatiji in his Address had said that we would abide by the verdict of the hon. court. We will fully agree with the hon. Rashtrapatiji. In spite of that, our hon. Prime Minister in his election speech in Shimla had said publicly that they are ready to hand over the disputed land toRam Janma Bhoomi Nyas and they want to construct Ram temple at the disputed site. He is trying to influence the court to change the order of the hon. apex court. Not only that, the so-called Sadhus, who had assembled at Parliament Street and who organised Dharma Sansad, have threatened the country with dire consequences. They have said, they will create another Gujarat. They want to change the name of ‘Bharatvarsha’ into ‘Hindustan’. This way they are trying to communalise our country. They are taking the plea of cow slaughtering. If you want, you say publicly that the people from the minority communities of Muslims and Christians have no right to live in India and if they wish to live in India, then they will have to live in India at the wish and mercy of some fundamentalist people. We should not allow these things even for a moment. Our countrymen are ready to fight in the street against these communal forces. They want to divide our country in the name of religion. They want to destroy our culture. They want to destroy our heritage. They want to destroy our ancient history for which we are respected throughout the world. They want to destroy our parampara, heritage, history and culture. They want to divide our nation in the name of religion. Our countrymen shall fight to the last. We shall fight in the street, within Parliament and outside Parliament. The people will fight against this Government. The people will be ready to face this communal Government. We shall resist them from applying their communal agenda to save the country from this anti-national and anti-people Party which is governing this country. SHRI BHARTRUHARI MAHTAB ( CUTTACK ): Thank you, Sir. I would like to be advised how many minutes I have with me. MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: You have eleven minutes to your credit. SHRI BHARTRUHARI MAHTAB : Thank you. I stand here to support the Motion moved by Shri Vijay Kumar Malhotra, the Motion of Thanks on the President’s Address. In his first Address to the joint sitting of Parliament on the opening day of the Budget Session on Monday last week, the hon. President Dr. Abdul Kalam has highlighted the Government’s intention to maintain friendly relations with all the neighbours of India including Pakistan. He has, in 79 paragraphs, dealt with many issues. This is a vast country with multifarious activities and multifarious issues, but I would be dealing with only two aspects of his speech. The first relates to foreign relations, especially relating to the friendly relationship, which we always try to maintain, with our neighbouring countries. The trouble however is that every move India makes towards good neighbourly relations has been responded to, by Pakistan in a negative manner. The recent incident in which a top diplomat of the Pakistan High Commission was found involved in supplying funds to Kashmir-based terrorist outfits showed that the Mission was there not for discharging its diplomatic obligations but for fomenting trouble in India. Yet, India is ready – and it is being repeatedly stated – to maintain the level of diplomatic relations that existed before the controversial official was expelled, but only if Pakistan sends a replacement for him. This offer made by President Kalam shows how seriously India takes the principles of bilateralism. Our relationship with Pakistan is time-tested. There is an Indus Water Treaty, there is the Shimla Agreement and there is the Lahore Declaration based on this principle. An effort was also made to end the Kashmir crisis by holding a dialogue with Pakistan, in Agra, but it was sabotaged by immature behaviour. Pakistan continues to work on terrorism as an instrument of State policy. Till date, it has failed to honour the commitment it has made to the world community in the wake of the terrorist attacks on New York and Washington. Yesterday again, President Musharraf has repeated the same rhetoric at Kuala Lumpur to agree to hold talks, with Kashmir as the focal point. President Kalam’s speech makes one understand that India is committed to finding solutions to problems involving its neighbours through the internationally recognised route of dialogue, provided there is a conducive environment. The hon. President has stated in his speech that the chief threat to India’s internal security is ‘external’. The Government has to maintain a constant vigil on this front and it should not allow issues relating to the two principal communities to be exploited by the enemy of this country. In this context, the hon. President has mentioned about the terrorist attacks at Gandhinagar’s Akshardham temple and Jammu’s Raghunath temple. The whole House should thank the people of this country for maintaining calm in the face of extreme provocation. We must not do anything – when I say, ‘we’, I include people from both sides of this House and from different sections of the society of this country – to help the enemy’s destructive design. The hon. President has mentioned a very definite expression: ‘method in madness’. The madness also has a method and that word has been mentioned by the hon. President in his speech. Perhaps, that is why, he has advised the religious leaders of Hindus and Muslims to accept the court verdict on the Ayodhya issue. This will help the promotion of "an atmosphere of mutual understanding, goodwill and accommodation" essential for faster all-round growth of the country. Now, I come to my second point. This is relating to Agriculture of which, I think, Dr. Raghuvansh Prasad Singh is more interested. This is mentioned in Para 22 in Hon’ble President’s speech. In his Address, the hon. President has suggested a review of agricultural policies, which discouraged crop diversification. "There is an urgent need" he said, "to review current policies, which have impeded crop diversification, and led to unsustainable food subsidies, and to ensure crop neutral support to our farmers without excessive procurement." These are his lines, which I have quoted. There are three challenges before the agriculture policy-makers today: (a) managing the ever-growing stocks of foodgrains; (b) the minimum support price (MSP), which has actually become the maximum support price; and (c) how to encourage crop diversification. Because of poor quality and high costs of procurement, transportation and storage, foodgrain off-take through the Public Distribution System (PDS) and exports have not picked up. Starvation deaths despite large foodgrain stocks are a pointer to this. Whatever wheat is exported is at almost half the price of procurement. Prof. Abhijit Sen, I think, many of us are aware, a former Chairman of the Agriculture Price Reform Committee, has suggested that the Government should reduce the MSP for wheat and paddy, as at present the MSP does not encourage farmers to diversify. If accepted, this suggestion can have a dangerous repercussion. The farmers are already agitated at keeping the wheat MSP unchanged this year. Any reduction would fuel discontent in the farming community. Today, diversification is the need of the hour. Hon. President has advised that the impediments should be removed. The farmers will not take to any other crop unless the returns are better than that of wheat and paddy. In the past, some progressive farmers did turn to growing sunflower, poplar, etc., but without attractive yields. Pulses and oilseeds are now considered for diversification, but farmers would not grow them unless their marketing is assured and suitable price support is given to them. Instead of reducing the MSP for wheat and paddy, it is better to encourage diversification with incentives. Farmers all over are given subsidies and those in the developed world get many times more than their counterparts in the developing countries. The Johl Committee has looked into the diversification issue in detail and its report is with the Government. To reduce the cost of farming, the regular power supply, better irrigation facilities and cheaper inputs—whether imported or we produce within our own country – should be made available to the farmers. There is a tremendous scope both in the domestic and global markets for processed fruits and vegetables. These are suitable for small land holders. Budgetary support can be given to encourage food-processing industries in a big way. I am sure that the hon. President’s words, which we all heard in the Central Hall the other day, will have the desired effect on our Government. I support the Motion. SHRI E. AHAMED ( MANJERI ): Thank you very much, Mr. Deputy-Speaker, Sir. I have given notice of certain amendments to the Motion of Thanks on President’s Address. We are all here to express our grateful thanks to the hon. Rashtrapatiji for his maiden Address to the Members of Parliament. We all have great respect for our Rashtrapatiji and also for his personal vision as well as the vision he has expressed on behalf of this Government. His vision of 2020 India is really acceptable to and commendable for every Indian, but this vision of 2020 India, cannot be achieved without national unity. Only through national unity, this country will be able to achieve its goal. It is also the duty of every Indian to contribute his share for the national unity and do everything to strengthen the national unity, but I am very much disappointed that the hon. Rashtrapatiji missed to mention some very salient features or some real problems affecting a very large section of the people of this country, which affect national unity. Everybody will say that unity in diversity is our motto, our slogan. That has been given to us by no less a leader than Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, but I am sorry to say that there is a campaign, hate campaign going on in this country against a particular community and this hate campaign has been done by some people who have some very selfish interest in doing so. Also, they are trying to achieve the political mileage through such a hate campaign. But I would like to submit before this august House that hate campaign against a particular community, insulting their religion and also defaming their Holy Prophet and doubting their loyalty will only divide the people of this country. Once we try to divide the people of this country, it will go on to divide the very hearts of the people of this country. That will be detrimental to the best interest of our country. Mr. Deputy-Speaker, Sir, I would like to ask why the ruling Party, the BJP, which formed the NDA Government with other secular parties or so-called secular parties, just give a free licence to those people and is allowing them to run a hate campaign against a particular community. Then, those people who have been hating a community, their speeches are spitting venom and fire against a particular community. What has happened to this community? How could some people or some sections of people doubt loyalty of 200 million people of this country or 12 per cent of the population? Without this 12 per cent of the population, will this country march towards progress? How can the people of a particular community be treated like that? I am sorry to say that we have seen communalism and ultra-communalism. While these people who advocate communalism had been speaking outside the Parliament, we saw the communal venom flowing. Quite nfortunately, this august House has also been used for such a nasty propaganda and communalism flowing. I am really very sorry to hear such things in this august House. We cannot agree to such things, especially in the precincts of this august House. I would like to ask when the minority community just doubts the Government’s intention in applying to the Supreme Court to vacate the stay already given against the disputed and the undisputed land in Ayodhya, is it not their legitimate right to ask the Government why the Government also has taken a partisan attitude? If the Government goes in a dangerously partisan way, it is really not in the best interest of this nation. The Government will have to help all the minority communities to bring them to the national mainstream. However these communal elements are giving them a sense of insecurity by branding them as anti-nationals, doubting their loyalty and insulting their holy Prophet, demigrating their religion and their Holy Book. How is it permissible in this country, when the Government is sending delegations to all the Islamic countries with a message saying that we have 12 per cent Muslim population and we are treating them well? I have also joined the delegations that had gone to various Muslim countries pleading the cause of this country, when our Parliament was attacked by the terrorists. In such a situation, how could the Government allow a particular segment of the population or a frontal organisation of ruling party to start this campaign? It has to be condemned. The Hon. President did not mention anything about this in his Address. … (Interruptions) SHRI KHARABELA SWAIN : If you are willing to yield for a minute, can I ask you a question? You have asked a very fundamental question, and I wish to ask you a counter question. SHRI E. AHAMED : It is up to the hon. Deputy-Speaker to decide. MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: Shri Ahamed, are you yielding to him? SHRI E. AHAMED : I shall yield to him, if you permit him to do so. SHRI KHARABELA SWAIN : I am just asking you a very fundamental question. Did anybody from your community really express any regret over the Godhra incident? SHRI E. AHAMED : My Dear Friend, you do not know it, but I, the person to whom you are talking to just now, had issued a statement and also condemned it. All the parties of Muslim community had condemned it. It is not to satisfy people like you, but it is because of our feeling and faith. SHRI KHARABELA SWAIN : Do you know that the majority community also got some feelings? Do you think that we do not have any feelings? … (Interruptions) MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: You have asked a question and he has answered it. There cannot be a ‘question-answer’ session now. SHRI E. AHAMED : It is a very crucial question because I am representing a large section of the people about whom question was put. When they have been misunderstood or being misinterpreted, it is my duty to correct that impression in this august body. When I read some such thing reported to have said by Hon’ble Prime Minister, I wrote a letter to the hon. Prime Minister. In that letter, I told him, "Mr. Prime Minister, it is not to satisfy anybody, but it is our faith and belief and, that is why, we have criticised and condemned whatever has happened in Godhra in the strongest language." It is not to satisfy anybody, and we do not need a good conduct certificate from anybody. We are not here to get any good conduct certificate from anybody. We are always loyal to our country and we are for national unity. When the Government of India moved a petition to vacate the stay order in Apex Court , one of the national newspapers, The Hindu, in their leading article on February 22 have written: When these things are written in the newspapers, naturally, the minorities will have their doubts and, therefore, the Government will have to clear it. What is wrong in it? Another point is that there is discrimination everywhere. When the question of Muslims comes, there is discrimination. When the Muslims are criticised and condemned, when their Holy Prophet is insulted and when their religion is deplored, there is no action. On the other hand, anything can come from the other side as if it has a licence. If it is from the minorities, they will be proceeded against. I have nothing against booking the culprits under the POTA. However, it is not being used for that. My Congress friend from Gujarat has already mentioned that 121 people, who are the accused in the Godhra incident, have been booked under POTA. When the Gujarat incident happened, on 5th March, 2002, I visited Gulmarg Housing Society at Ahmedabad. When the riot was going on in Gujarat, I visited the home of late Ahsan Jaffrey Ex. MP in Gulmarg Society where he was burnt alive. What action State Govt. of Gujrat has taken? Why those accused who were responsible for burning the people alive have not been proceeded under POTA? Is it not a discrimination? I am not talking about a Hindu or a Muslim. I say that a culprit is a culprit; a criminal is a criminal whether he is a Muslim or a Hindu. Ahsan Jaffrey, former Member of Parliament, had been burnt to death but nothing is done. This is a very unfortunate thing. MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: Please conclude now. SHRI E. AHAMED : I am just concluding. Sir, I would like to mention the problems of Muslim minorities also. They have been denied their proper representation in the Government. I would like to mention to this House their present position. The hon. President, I am sorry to say, did not mention about the problems being faced by the Muslim minorities. They have been alienated from the national mainstream. There is a hate campaign going on against them and they have no adequate representation in Government service. I would just like to mention an important fact to the notice of this Government. Unfortunately, the Muslim community representation is very dismal. I would just show some records. There was a survey conducted by the National Sample Survey in 1998 which shows the pathetic position of the 12 per cent of population, Muslim communities in the Government services. In the IAS sector, their representation is 2.86 per cent; in the IPS sector, their representation is 2 per cent; in Class-I posts, it is 3.3 per cent; in the engineering side, it is 2 per cent; in regard to doctors, the figure is 2.5 per cent; in the primary school enrolment the figure of their representation is just 12.39 per cent out of the total percentage of 63.19 per cent countrywide; and at the graduate level success rate, their figure constitutes only 3.2 per cent. Therefore, it is the duty of the Government to consider the pathetic position of the Muslim minority community in this country and extend fullest help and provide them proper representation in the Government agencies. Sir, I am on my last point now. It is about NRIs. About 20 million people are known as the NRIs. But only five per cent are the real NRIs. They have no benefit. They have the citizenship of other countries. They are bringing worth 14 billion dollars as foreign exchange to this country. They are the people to be given all benefits. In the end, I say that the minorities’ interests should also be protected. With these few words, I conclude. श्री श्याम बिहारी मिश्र ( बिल्हौर ) :माननीय उपाध्यक्ष जी, माननीय राष्ट्रपति जी के अभिभाषण के ऊपर माननीय विजय कुमार मल्होत्रा जी द्वारा रखे गये धन्यवाद प्रस्ताव का हम समर्थन करते हैं। उपाध्यक्ष जी, माननीय अटल बिहारी वाजपेयी जी के नेतृत्व में पिछले पांच सालों से एनडीए की सरकार चल रही है। अभी कुछ वक्ताओं ने कहा कि इस सरकार ने गरीबों और किसानों के लिए कुछ नहीं किया है और इस अभिभाषण में कुछ नहीं है। लेकिन अगर हम इस अभिभाषण को ध्यानपूर्वक पढ़ें और इस सरकार के पांच सालों के कार्यों का अवलोकन करें, तो गरीबों के लिए, किसानों के लिए और झुग्गी-झोंपड़ी में रहने वाले गरीब लोगों के लिए जितना कार्य किया गया है वह पिछले पचास सालों में भी नहीं किया गया है। इस बात पर विचार किया जाना चाहिए कि पांच साल बनाम पचास सालों में क्या कार्य किये गये। उपाध्यक्ष जी, माननीय इंदिरा गांधी जी ने सन् १९७१ में गरीबी हटाओ का नारा दिया था। मैं पूछना चाहता हूं कि गरीबी हटाई गयी या कि गरीबों को हटाया गया। मैं पूछना चाहता हूं कि गरीबी को हटाने के लिए क्या योजनाएं दी गयीं? माननीय अटल बिहारी वाजपेयी जी के नेतृत्व में पिछले पांच सालों में गरीबों, किसानों, मजदूरों और झुग्गी-झोंपड़ी में रहने वालों के लिए वास्तव में पहली बार काम किया गया है। यह पहली सरकार है जिसने शहर में रहने वाले झुग्गी-बस्तियों के गरीब लोगों के लिए बाल्मीकी-अम्बेडकर योजना का प्रारम्भ किया है। क्या पहले किसी ने किया था? कल मेरी बहन प्रतिपक्ष की नेता बोल रही थीं कि किसान क्रैडिट-कार्ड क्या है? किसानों के लिए कुछ नहीं किया गया है। इस देश के गरीब किसानों को किसान क्रैडिट-कार्ड के द्वारा जहां खेती के औजार, बीज, खाद खरीदने का मौका मिला, वहीं इसके द्वारा उसे लोन की सुविधा का मौका मिला, जिससे वह अपनी पुत्री के हाथ पीले कर सके । यह व्यवस्था किसान क्रैडिट कार्ड के अन्तर्गत की गई, लेकिन इसकी भी आलोचना की जा रही है। पिछले पांच सालों में खाद ब्लैक में नहीं बिकी। पहले बड़ी लम्बी-लम्बी लाइनें यूरिया और डीएपी की खाद के लिए लगतीं थीं, लेकिन आज कोई लाइन नहीं है। डीएपी और युरिया की खाद किसानों को आज सरलता से उपलब्ध है। समाजवादी पार्टी के एक नेता इस विषय में बोल रहे थे, लेकिन उत्तर प्रदेश में उनका भी शासन रहा है, उस समय एक-एक बोरी यूरिया के लिए, एक-एक बोरी डीएपी खाद के लिए किसानों को लाइन में लगना पड़ता था। इन पिछले पांच सालों में यूरिया और डीएपी की खाद के लिए किसानों को किसी लाइन में नहीं लगना पड़ा और न ही कहीं दौड़ना पड़ा। इन पांच सालों में भारत का गौरव बढ़ा है। भारत पूरे विश्व का गुरू कहलाता था, लेकिन ४५ सालों के अन्तर्गत यह देश पूरे विश्व के मानचित्र में भिखमंगे के रूप में पहचाना जाने लगा। विदेशी मुद्रा को अर्जित करने के लिए सोना-चांदी को गिरवी रखा गया। गांव के व्यक्ति को अपनी पत्नी का जेवर गिरवी रखना पड़ता है, तो उसकी क्या स्थिति होती है, इस बात का किसी को अन्दाजा नहीं है। आज माननीय अटल बिहारी वाजपेयी जी के पांच साल के शासनकाल में, एनडीए की सरकार के अन्तर्गत ७५.२८ बलियन डालर देश में विदेशी मुद्रा है। महोदय, माननीय सदस्य, श्री रघुवंश प्रसाद जी अपनी बात कह रहे थे, तो उन्होंने कहा कि प्रधान मंत्री ग्रामीण विकास सड़क योजना के लिए कर बढ़ाया गया है। वास्तविकता यह है कि कोई कर नहीं बढ़ाया गया है। सड़के बन रही है। शेरशाह सूरी के बाद पहले प्रधान मंत्री हैं, जिन्होंने सड़क बनाने का काम किया। पूरे विश्व के लोग हिन्दुस्तान में व्यापार इसलिए नहीं करने आते थे, क्योंकि देश में आने-जाने का इन्फ्रास्ट्रक्चर उपलब्ध नहीं था। माननीय अटल बिहारी वाजपेयी जी ने इस दिशा में काम किया, लेकिन उसकी भी आलोचना हो रही है। गांवों को सड़कों से जोड़ने से किसानों को लाभ होगा। किसान को उसके उत्पादन का उचित मूल्य मिलेगा। जब किसान को उसके उत्पादन का उचित मूल्य मिलेगा, तो किसान के बच्चे शहरों में पढ़ने के लिए जायेंगे, लेकिन इसके लिए भी आलोचना की जा रही है। हर दिशा में हमारी सरकार सही काम कर रही है। श्रीमन्, अभी हाल ही में मुझे बिहार जाने का मौका मिला। मैं आरा से सासाराम सड़क से गया, लेकिन सड़क पर इतने गड्ढे थे कि कार चल नहीं पा रही थी। ७० किलोमीटर की दूरी पांच घन्टे में तय हुई। ऐसी स्थिति में भी प्रधानमंत्री ग्रामीण विकास सड़क योजना की आलोचना की जा रही है। डॉ. रघुवंश प्रसाद सिंह : वह सड़क राज्य सरकार की है या केन्द्र सरकार की है? श्री श्याम बिहारी मिश्र :मैंने पता किया था, वह राष्ट्रीय राजमार्ग नहीं है। राज्य सरकार की सड़क है, जिस पर मैं गया था। डॉ. रघुवंश प्रसाद सिंह : वह राष्ट्रीय राजमार्ग होना चाहिए। श्री श्याम बिहारी मिश्र : महोदय, आज किसानों के उत्पादन का मूल्य बढ़ रहा है। सरकार द्वारा गेहूं की कीमत बढ़ायी गई है। गन्ने का मूल्य बढ़ाया गया है। धान की कीमत बढ़ाई गई है। गरीब आदमी जिसके घर में साधन नहीं होते, वह भूखों मर जाता है। अन्त्योदय योजना के अन्तर्गत उस गरीब आदमी को दस किलो गेहूं और दस किलो चावल देने की योजना किसी पूर्व की सरकार ने शुरु नहीं की, हमारी एनडीए की सरकार ने शुरू की है। इस योजना के अन्तर्गत राज्य अनाज नहीं बांट रहे हैं। बिहार राज्य में तो इस योजना के अन्तर्गत कार्ड भी नहीं बने हैं, लेकिन आलोचना की जा रही है। मैं कहना चाहता हूं कि दो रुपए किलो गेहूं और तीन रुपए किलो चावल…( व्यवधान) डॉ. रघुवंश प्रसाद सिंह :देश में छ : करोड़ परिवार गरीबी की रेखा से नीचे के परिवार हैं और एक करोड़ परिवार तो गरीब से भी गरीब हैं, इन लोगों की आप किस प्रकार खोज कीजिए, यह बता दीजिए। श्री श्याम बिहारी मिश्र : जब आपने कुछ नहीं किया है, तो आप क्यों बोल रहे हैं। आपके राज्य में तो इस योजना के अन्तर्गत कार्ड भी नहीं बने हैं। बिहार में एक कमेटी गई थी, तो वहां के चीफ सैक्रेटरी ने आंकड़े दिए हैं, मैं यह बात ऐसे ही नहीं कह रहा हूं। महोदय, इन पिछले पांच सालों में दूध का उत्पादन प्रथम स्थान पर है। पांच साल के शासन काल में भारत सूचना टैक्नॉलोजी के क्षेत्र में प्रथम स्थान पर है और प्रथम स्थान के आधार पर पहली बार यहां से ७.८ मलियन अमेरिकन डालर की सूचना टैक्नॉलोजी का सामान निर्यात हुआ है जिससे विदेशी मुद्रा भी मिली है। आप बार-बार कह रहे हैं कि रोजगार कहां से आते हैं? सूचना टैक्नॉलोजी के अन्तर्गत जो सामान यहां से निर्यात किया गया क्या हम लोगों ने उसमें रोजगार नहीं दिया? पहले किसी ने इस काम को नहीं किया। सम्पूर्ण ग्राम विकास योजना के अन्तर्गत काम हो रहा है। मैं इसलिए यह बात कह रहा हूं कि कल विपक्ष की नेता ने कहा था कि इस सरकार ने गांवों के लिए, किसानों के लिए और गरीबों के लिए काम नहीं किया है। अभी एक सज्जन कह रहे थे कि फौजियों के लिए क्या किया? बोलते समय देख लीजिए कि क्या हो रहा है? जो फौजी शहीद हो गए उनके लिए और जो नहीं हुए उनके लिए इस सरकार ने आवास योजना १७ हजार करोड़ रुपए की लागू की। इसके पहले नहीं की गई थी। इसके पहले भी युद्ध हुए। जो सैनिक शहीद होता था, उसके कपड़े उसके परिवार को आ जाते थे। इस सरकार ने उसके शरीर को भेजने की व्यवस्था की। उसके बच्चे और पत्नी की सहायता की। ग्रामीण और शहरी आवास योजना शुरु की गई। उसके अन्तर्गत गरीबों की सहायता की गई। इन्दिरा आवास योजना शुरु की गई। वाजपेयी जी ने ग्रामीण आवास योजना शुरु की लेकिन व्यक्तिगत अटल विकास योजना उसका नाम नहीं रखा। आप लोगों ने जो योजनाएं दी वे व्यक्तिगत नामों से थी चाहे वह जवाहर रोजगार योजना हो या दूसरी कोई योजना हो। वाजपेयी जी जो जो कुछ किया वह प्रधान मंत्री के नाम से किया ताकि २५-५० साल बाद कोई पढ़े तो यह न कहे कि किसी व्यक्ति विशेष के नाम पर काम हुआ। रोटी, कपड़ा और मकान देने का काम इस सरकार ने किया है। आपने गरीबी हटाओ का नारा जरूर दिया। लेकिन रोटी कपड़ा और मकान की ओर ध्यान नहीं दिया। ऐसे तमाम बिन्दु शिक्षा, स्वास्थ्य के क्षेत्र में हैं कि किस प्रकार पांच साल में इस सरकार ने काम किया, रक्षा कर्मियों के लिए किस प्रकार से काम किया? भ्रष्टाचार की बात यहां आती है। कांग्रेस की हुकूमत ने १९८१ में आवश्यक वस्तु संशोधन विधेयक पास किया था जिससे भ्रष्टाचार बढ़ गया। जगह-जगह व्यापारियों से पैसे की वसूली होने लगी। रघुवंश बाबू खाद्य मंत्री बने थे। व्यापारियों ने इनको बुलाया था और आग्रह किया था कि इसे हटा दो क्योंकि इसमें पैसा वसूली हो रही है। आपने नहीं हटाया। आपने उस समय मुझे जवाब दिया था कि अगर इसे हटा देंगे तो यहां कीमतें बढ़ जाएंगी, व्यापारी लूट लेगा। वाजपेयी जी ने वह आवश्यक वस्तु संशोधन विधेयक समाप्त कर दिया। कहीं कीमतें नहीं बढ़ी, कहीं किसी को लूटा नहीं गया, भ्रष्टाचार कम हो गया। जिन व्यापारियों से पैसा वसूल होता था वह बंद हो गया। एक्साइज में तमाम दरें थी। इस सरकार ने एक्साइज की दरों को १६ प्रतिशत ८ प्रतिशत सीमित कर दिया जिससे भ्रष्टाचार समाप्त हो गया। आयकर की दरें कम की गई जिससे ब्रष्टाचार कम हुआ और सरकार का राजस्व बढ़ा। इस सरकार ने गांवों के गरीब किसानों, व्यापारियों, मजदूरों. विद्यार्थियों, शिक्षकों तथा सभी के लिए काम किया है। इसने पूरे विश्व में भारत के मान को बढ़ाने का काम किया है चाहे वह छठे आणविक देश के रूप में बढाया हो चाहे विदेशी मुद्रा का अपार भंडार करके बढ़ाया हो। आज पूरे विश्व में भारत का एक सम्मान है और उसे अच्छी द्ृष्टि से देखा जाता है। जो काम पिछले सालों में नहीं हुआ उसे हमने करके दिखा दिया। अंत में प्रधान मंत्री से आग्रह करना चाहता हूं कि एक अप्रैल से कर प्रणाली में परिवर्तन की बात कही गई है और वैट प्रणाली लागू करने की बात कही गई है। वैट प्रणाली भारत जैसे फैडरल देश की अर्थव्यवस्था के लिए उचित नहीं है। इस वैट प्रणाली द्वारा देश में भ्रष्टाचार बढ़ेगा, इंस्पैक्टर राज बढ़ेगा। कुछ समय पहले अटल जी ने लघु कर्मियों के बीचे बहुत अच्छी बात कही थी। लघुकर्मियों से कहा कि भ्रष्टाचार और इंसपैक्टर राज हटायेंगे। मेरा माननीय प्रधान मंत्री जी से आग्रह है कि सारे व्यापारी वैल्यु ऐडेड टैक्स से सहमत नहीं हैं। इस पर पुनर्विचार करने की आवश्यकता है। इस पर पुनर्विचार करते हुये देश से इंसपैक्टर राज और भ्रष्टाचार खत्म करने के लिये वैट प्रणाली को नहीं लायें और वर्तमान में जो प्रणाली चल रही है, उसमें संशोधन कर अतरिक्त उत्पादन कर लगाकर बिक्री कर को समाप्त करें। इससे देश से भ्रष्टाचार मिटेगा। इन्ही शब्दों के साथ मैं इस प्रस्ताव का समर्थन करता हूं और अपनी बात समाप्त करता हूं। श्रीमती जयश्री बैनर्जी : उपाध्यक्ष जी, क्या हम नौ बजे तक बोल पायेंगे क्योंकि हम भी इसी इंतजार में बैठे हुये हैं। उपाध्यक्ष महोदय : आप बेफिक्र रहें। जरुर मौका मिलेगा। SHRI K.P. SINGH DEO ( DHENKANAL ): Mr. Deputy-Speaker, Sir, I am thankful to you and also to my party for giving me an opportunity to speak for a few minutes in this debate. Sir, one billion Indians anxiously waited for His Excellency, the President of India to deliver his first Address to the Parliament that ran into 78 points in 24 pages. I very respectfully and humbly participate in this debate because firstly it gives the thoughts of the Government for the next year and also for the coming years, and second, it gives us the opportunity to deliberate on those. I had many points to deliberate on but keeping in view the paucity of time, I would confine myself to a very few points. Sir, first I come to Vision – 2020. Vision – 2020 was authored by a very eminent Indian who was the Chairman of the Technology Information Forecasting Assessment Council (TIFAC) and was the head of the DRDO and was also the Scientific Advisor to the Raksha Mantri, the Missile Man, Dr. A.P.J.Abdul Kalam on August 02, 1996. Today he happens to be our respected President. Therefore, Vision – 2020 should not be hijacked by anyone. No one should take credit for it. It is actually authored by Dr. A.P.J. Abdul Kalam in 1996 when he was not the President of our Republic. The people who are associated with this are Dr. A.P.J. Abdul Kalam with Shri Y.S.Rajan – India, a vision for the new Millennium, and I find five of my Joint Secretaries, who had worked with me in my capacity as a Minister in various Ministries, who have participated in the workshop that has produced this lovely document. Sir, selection and maintenance of aim is the first principle of a war and that is what is taught in all the military schools. It is good to have a vision. In that way, our country has been very fortunate in this regard. We have had visionaries since the Third B.C., from the times of Emperor Ashoka. Then we had vision through Mahatma Gandhi, through Chakravarty Rajagopalachari, through Pandit Nehru, through Indira Gandhi, through Lal Bahadur Shastri, through Rajiv Gandhi and now through Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee. So, there has been no dearth of visionaries. We require vision. But the vision must be implementable. It should not be a bunch of pious thoughts and platitudes. Sir, we do not get any indication from the Address of the respected Rastrapatiji as to how it is going to be implemented. It is because our Constitution lays most of the responsibility – the answers I have been receiving during the last three years, I have not been here for the last five years of Shri Vajpayee’s Prime Ministership that everything has to be done by the States – on the States and there is no responsibility of the Central Government. They would only enunciate and give the money and it has to be met with matching grants and implementation is totally to be done by the States. We do not know as to what sort of a monitoring, what sort of an implementation; what sort of a review; and what sort of corrective action would be there. It is not very clear. The President, in his capacity as the supreme commander of the armed forces of India, has spoken on national security, nuclear doctrine and internal threats. National security is paramount; otherwise, no development can take place. National security of our country has taken a severe beating because we do not have a credible deterrent defence as yet. After the Kargil misadventure by Pakistan or due to our lessening of the vigil; the attack on Parliament; the hijacking to Kandahar; attack on Kaluchak, we must ponder where the grey areas lie and where we have to tie up because this is certainly a blow to our national security. So, it is not enough to have a nuclear doctrine. We have amongst our SAARC countries, which he has mentioned in his Address, Pakistan which is eyeing our territory through terrorism and adventurism. Bangladesh is eyeing our territory through illegal immigration and demographic penetration; Nepal wants a slice over our territory through revocation of the Treaty of Segowlee of 1816. This is the scenario we are living through with regard to national security and nuclear doctrine. The President himself has admitted that there is a method in the madness of Pakistan while dealing with India. Therefore, when we talk about a nuclear doctrine, we must be sure that we have the nuclear deterrence, the nuclear arsenal and the will to use it in case somebody uses it on us. Because the radioactive fall out can be as devastating as Hiroshima and Nagasaki which most of our hon. Members have gone and seen. The pathetic word written there is "let it not happen to any other country". We are not talking about US bombing Japan. But here are our two neighbours. Such a thing has never happened. We do not have precedence. Therefore, our senior commanders of the Armed Forces will have a strategy. This is where I would like to caution because the President has mentioned that the strategic withdrawal of the troops from the border was done by the Government. The Government does policy; enunciates policy. The Government does not have the expertise to decide on strategy or tactics. Therefore, we are playing on dangerous ground when we dabble in strategy. The implication on India of the USA and UK combined threat of war on Iraq is mind-boggling. I do not wish to take too much of time here because we may be the targets. India is a soft target. Even Bangladesh has been shooting down our people. They have been sending their people. Pakistan has been doing the same. Nepal is no less. So, we are a soft target. Indians are not safe within India as Kaluchak has proved as officers of the rank of DIG and others have died in Jammu. Even in Badamibagh Cantonment in Kashmir, 17 or 18 military officers have been just mowed down. We cannot apportion everything to ISI like we used to do to CIA when you and I were new Members here thirty years back. So, we have to be vigilant. In this, the United Nations is also being marginalised by USA and UK. The considerations are geo-political, geo-strategic and based on geo-economics – it is oil. It is not on lofty principle on which Mr. George Bush the Junior, is ridding terrorism and evil from the world - from India or from anyone else. Iraq has been steadfastly a very good friend of India. India has trained her armed forces. So, this is the time when we must stand by Iraq and stop this misadventure in tandem of USA and UK.) I would have felt very happy had the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces, the President, spoken something about the service people, which we allege as the holy cow and we do not want to discuss. But it is about the ex-servicemen. There are 50 lakh families who have given the best part of their life. They have given their today for our tomorrow. On the 27th February, that is, day after tomorrow, they are to march down to Raj Ghat and Parliament on six points which they have been raising right from 1984, namely, one rank one pension, medicare, institutional mechanism etc. A civilian joins service at the age of 25, retires from a peon to a Cabinet Secretary. He joins at 25 years and retires at 58 years. So, it is 33 years of service. But a poor jawan retires at the completion of 15 years to 22 years and he gets Rs. 700 less pension every month. We are having a Commission for Children, we are having a Commission for the Scheduled Tribes in the President’s Address but we cannot have an Ex-Servicemen Commission. This is a recommendation which has been accepted by the Government in 1984. Shri Jaswant Singh, Shri Rajesh Pilot, myself and Prof. N.C. Parashar were members of that Committee. This Ex-Servicemen Commission could have sorted out things and they would not have had to march down to Parliament. The entire work force, with the exception of Bhartiya Mazdoor Sangh, is going to march up to Parliament at 10 a.m. on 26 Feb., 2001 because the organised and the unorganised labour is dissatisfied at disinvestment and throwing away the workers to the streets. Sir, I represent a place where NALCO, one of the flagship public sector undertakings, was set up by Shrimati Indira Gandhi in 1981 at a cost of Rs. 2408 crore. Not a single paisa was given by the Government of India. It was done by Euro loan…… (Interruptions) MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: Please conclude. SHRI K.P. SINGH DEO : Sir, this is life and death question for us. I hope you would bear with me. I have sat through two days. I shall try to be quick and cut down many of my points. The NALCO was set up at the cost of Rs. 2408 crore. Today, it is worth Rs. 22,000 crores. There are port facilities in Vishakhapatnam, mining and refinery in Damanjodi and Koraput, smelter and captive power plants in Angul which have already given Rs. 13,000 crore to the country in the last 20 years in export earnings. It is earning a profit of Rs. 500 crore. Today, at Panchpatmalli, the area of Koraput, there are Rs. 74,000 crore worth of proven deposits of bauxite with uranium contents. And what is the Disinvestment Ministry trying to do? It is trying to sell it off for Rs. 3900 crore. It is shame. The Petitions Committee of Lok Sabha has advised the Government not to do it. The Cabinet has not taken a decision. Yet, at a very fast pace, in a tearing hurry, they want to get rid of NALCO thereby throwing away not only the national interest but also the State interest and the area interest. This was done like BALCO on the land of the tribals and poor people who gave up because it was a national project. Now they are going to sell off such a huge and gigantic company which is giving so much value added assets to the State and the country to some industrialists for Rs. 3900 crore. This is a sad thing. My last point is this. After mentioning drought, floods and other disasters in the President’s Address, he would have given some thought to the States of the old Bengal Presidency or the Calcutta Presidency, namely, Bengal, Bihar, Orissa, Assam and some areas which are perpetually subjected to weather related calamities, whether it is drought or flood or cyclone or earthquake or hailstorm. But not a word is there on how the regional backwardness or regional imbalance which has crept up in the Ninth Plan is sought to be arrested. 21.00 hrs. 

Not a word has been said as to how the people of these areas, where there is a large population of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, and poorer sections of society will come up so that their economic development and their infrastructure development, whether it is road transport, rail transport or air transport are at par with the rest of the country. Next, let me come to disaster management. For the last two years we have been debating it, but not a mention about disaster management in the President’s Address. A mention about SAARC countries has been made. But a very retrograde step has been taken. Three-hundred and fifty athletes who have brought us glory in Asian Games and in the Commonwealth Games, whom the Rashtrapatiji in his speech wants to get us glory and medals in the Olympic Games next year, are being debarred from going to Islamabad to participate in the SAARC games. I will speak on two more points and conclude. These are very important points. MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: No, already you have taken fifteen minutes. SHRI K.P. SINGH DEO : I will conclude. The President has very kindly mentioned about a special package for North-East and Jammu and Kashmir. We welcome it. A special package was also mentioned for the KBK districts. For the last two years, KBK districts are under review. The meeting with MPs has not taken place. Only the last week the Chief Minister of Orissa has changed the entire lot of officers because for the last two years no work has been going on. There is mis-appropriation, mis-utilisation and non-utilisation of public funds given by the Centre. It has come out in the CAG’s Report. I think some mention should have been there about that.… (Interruptions) Today the youths are frustrated, farmers are distressed, workers are dissatisfied and ex-servicemen are discontented. So, what is required is accountability and responsibility from the Government, which claims to be smart, simple, moralistic, accessible, responsive and transparent. MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: Before I call upon the next Member to speak, let me take the sense of the House. Tomorrow, we have a tight schedule. Therefore, we have to exhaust the list today. I have, with me, the names of seven or eight Members who want to speak on this. I will give at the most five minutes to each Member. I think we can conclude it and then adjourn the House. Is it the pleasure of the House to continue? I take it that it is the pleasure of the House to continue. चौधरी तालिब हुसैन ( जम्मू ) : आदरणीय डिप्टी स्पीकर सर, सियासी आजादी के बाद हमारे देश के सामने सबसे बड़ा लक्ष्य और मंजिल हमारे देश की इक्तसादी आजादी थी और जिसको एचीव करने के लिए हमारे स्टालवट्र्स ने जो प्लैन्ड डैवलपमेंट का तरीका अपनाया, उन स्टालवर्ट को देश कभी नहीं भूल सकता। जिनके गौर और फिक्र के इंतजाम के कारण आज तक हमारे देश के अंदर प्लैन्ड डैवलपमेंट का सिलसिला चला आ रहा है जिसकी वजह से इन्कार नहीं किया जा सकता कि हमारे देश ने बेहद तरक्की की गुजिस्तां ० साल के दौरान और इसमें शक नहीं कि कहीं-कहीं इनमें कमियां भी रही होंगी। डिप्टी स्पीकर साहब, आज हमारे सामने विजन, २०२० का मकसद है और हमें एक मंजिल तय करनी है। इस टारगैट को एचीव करना है। मैं यकीन करता हूं कि जहां पं. जवाहर लाल नेहरू ने प्लैन्ड डैवलपमेंट का तसव्वुर दिया। उसका आज जो एक नतीजा निकला है, मौजूदा प्रधान मंत्री ने एक लक्ष्य रख कर एक मंजिल रख दी है और कहा है कि हमें इसकी तरफ बढ़ना है। हमारे पास समय बहुत कम है। केवल २० साल हैं और इनके अंदर बहुत सारे काम करने हैं और जो काम गिनाए गए हैं उनमें दो-तीन चीजों पर खासतौर से ध्यान दिया गया है। इसमें यह कहा गया है कि २० सालों के दौरान इल्लिट्रेसी खत्म करनी है, शेल्टर देना है। डिं्रकिंग वाटर सप्लाई स्कीम रूरल ऐरिया तक पहुंचाना है। इसी तरीके से दूसरे डेवलपमेंट के काम करने हैं। ये काम कैसे होंगे, इसकी तरफ हमें तवज्जह देनी होगी। इस पर जब तक हम सही तरीके से इम्प्लीमेंटेशन की रफ्तार को तेज नहीं करेंगे तब तक ये लक्ष्य हासिल नहीं हो सकते हैं। जनाबेवाला, आज जिस मंजिल, सिनेरियो और हालात से सारी दुनिया गुजर रही है, वह सब लोगों के सामने है। हिन्दुस्तान की आला विरासत और कद्रों के एतबार से कुछ जिम्मेदारियां और बढ़ गई हैं। सारी दुनिया में हिन्दुस्तान की डेमोक्रेसी का नाम है। हिन्दुस्तान दुनिया के सबसे बड़े डेमोक्रेटिक मूल्कों में गिना जाता है। अगर यह कहा जाए कि ये सबसे लार्जर डेमोक्रेसी है तो गलत नहीं है। आज जो हालात दुनिया के अंदर मंडरा रहे हैं, वहां हिन्दुस्तान की जिम्मेदारियां दोहरी हो जाती हैं। उसके कंधों पर ये जिम्मेदारियां आयद होती हैं कि दुनिया को अमन का गहवार रखने में मदद एवं इयानत दी जाए और जंग की तबाही से बचाया जाए। इराक के मामले में प्रधानमंत्री साहब की जो स्टेटमेंट आई है, उसका हम स्वागत करते हैं। हम उनसे तवक्को रखते हैं कि वे अपना गुड आफिस इस्तेमाल करेंगे। हिन्दुस्तान की सकाफत, तहजीब और यहां की हमा-हमी तथा यहां की जो एकदार एवं वेल्यूस हैं उसे सारे देश में ले जाने में और उसकी समझ लोगों को दिलाने में ऐसा काम करेंगे ताकि दुनिया जंग की तबाही से बच सके तथा दुनिया को इंसाफ मिल सके। जनाबेवाला, मैं मुख़तसर अर्ज करना चाहूंगा कि रियासत जम्मू और काश्मीर के हालात, जो पिछले १२ सालों से पेचिदा होते रहे और जिस माहौल एवं बदहाली से वहां की आवाम गुजरी, वह किसी से पोशिदा नहीं है। इसके लिए समय चाहिए और लोगों की ओपनियन चाहिए कि ऐसे हालात को बदलने में वहां की आवाम क्या रोल निभा सकती है। इस समय उस सारी तफसील में नहीं जाया जा सकता, लेकिन एक बात जरूर है कि आज हरेक इंसान यह समझता है कि बात जो है,, गुफ्तोशनीद और इफामो तफहीम के जरिए से ही रियासत जम्मू-काश्मीर के अमन को दोबारा बहाल किया जा सकता है। उसके सिलसिले में हमारी गवर्नमेंट ने वोरा जी की कियादत में जो इंटर लोकेटिर, बनाए हैं, वे वहां के इलेक्टिड रिप्रजंटेटिवज से बात करेंगे। इसके अलावा यह भी हो सकता है कि वे जिन लोगों को मुनासिब समझें, उनसे राबता कायम करें और बात करें। मैं आखिर में एक बात और कह कर अपनी बात समाप्त करना चाहता हूं। यहां एक बात की चर्चा होती है और हालात के साथ-साथ वह घटती-बढ़ती है। वह यह है कि हमारा अयोध्या का मसला कोर्ट में है। सब लोग, हिन्दू और मुसलमान भी कह रहे हैं, बल्कि मुसलमानों से बढ़ कर हिन्दुओं की अक्सरियत इस देश के अंदर ८० फीसदी है। इनकी लीडरशिप सारी की सारी नहीं , लेकिन ज्यादातर लोग कोर्ट के फैसले को तरजीह देते हैं। हमारी हुकूमत और हम भी चाहते हैं कि हमारा एतमाद, ट्रस्ट हिन्दू-मुसलमान का कभी जाया न हो, इसे मजबूती मिले। देश में अखंडता और एकता कायम रहे। इसके जितने मसायल हैं, वे गुफ्तोशनीद के जरिए से हल हों। अगर हम उस नज़र से देखेंगे तो मैं समझता हूं कि हमारे लिए कोई मसला मुश्किल नहीं है। मैं उन हज़रात का शुक्रियाअदा करता हूं, इस सिलसिले में अक्सरियती तबके के मेम्बर ऑफ पार्लियामेंट जिस तरीके से अपना रोल निभा रहे हैं, उन्हें मैं मुबारकबाद दिए बिना नहीं रहूंगा। इन्हीं अल्फाज़ के साथ मैं इस अभिभाषण के धन्यवाद प्रस्ताव का समर्थन करता हूं। *SHRI ANANT GUDHE ( AMRAVATI ): Mr Deputy Speaker Sir, I rise to support the Motion of Thanks moved by Shri Vijay Kumar Malhotra on the President’s Address to both Houses of Parliament which he was pleased to deliver on 17th February, 2003. 55 years have passed after our country became independent. But we have given only assurances to the people during all these years. We have only given speeches before them. We have obtained their votes. But we have never thought as to actually what people want. After 55 years for the first time we feel that people are getting what they really need. Hon. Prime Minister started Swajaldhara Scheme in the last December. We could not give even drinking water to the people. We ruled for 50 years but could not supply drinking water. But through this scheme, drinking water is available even in small hamlets. There were many villages with population of 2000, which did not have even approach roads. But through Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana roads are being constructed in these villages. Despite these achievements, the basic issue before the country today is that of security. We have to preserve the freedom, which was earned by the sacrifice of martyrs. So the security of the country is paramount. There is infiltration in this country for past several years. Mostly it is from Bangladesh and Pakistan. Those who come to India from Pakistan on a temporary visa, stayed here permanently. They are living in several cities of our country and have huge colonies. Those who came from Pakistan and Bangladesh on visa and never went back, are creating anarchy in this country. They are printing fake currency in this country and trying to wreck our economy. So, if we want to achieve development in this country, it is necessary to identify those who have infiltrated from Pakistan and Bangladesh in our country, and remove them from this country. This is our duty and this aspect has been __________________________________________________________________*English Translation of the speech originally delivered in Marathi. mentioned by Hon. President in his address. Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, another important issue before us is that of population. What is the situation in the country today? We are striving hard to control our population for several years. We made several efforts. We reached people through TV and advertisements. As a result, some sections of society adopted family planning even resorting to one child norm and responded to the policy of family planning. But some people in the name of religion are opposing family planning. While we have a challenge of reducing our population, some people are not following the principles of our Constitution and as result size of some families is increasing. It has been stressed for a long time that we must have uniform civil code in this country. Everybody is equal before law. Whoever he may be or he may belong to Hindu, Christian, Muslim, Dalit or any religion. Everybody will have to abide by the Constitution of which Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar was the architect. That is why family planning is great challenge before us. We plan several schemes and programmes. But because of vast population we are not in a position to give benefit of these schemes to them. Therefore, it is necessary to check our growing population. That is why Shiv Sena Chief Balasaheb Thakare has also said that controlling our population is very necessary. Everybody should cooperate in controlling our population. In fact Government should announce that those who follow one child norm will be rewarded. In this manner we will be in a position to control population. One more important point and I will conclude my speech. Hon. President has also dwelt upon the problem of unemployment in his Address. If we want to remove the problem of unemployment, I feel that it is necessary to inculcate the spirit of patriotism and nationalism in our youth and make it part of our school curriculum, till then we will not be in a position to solve unemployment problem. We do not sing our national anthem. It is not sung in many schools. We say that Japan has made lot of progress. Even after total destruction in Second World War, Japan made spectacular progress solely because of nationalist spirit of Japanese people. Many other nations made significant progress only on account of their strong national feelings. It is necessary to instil that sense of strong national sentiments in our youth and every citizen of this country. If we have this national ferver, then our country will take strides in future. The responsibility of preserving our freedom lies on the shoulders of our youth. That is why our Prime Minister has visualised ‘Vision 2020’. I feel that we did not have a Government like Vajpayee Government for the past 50 years. This is a Government which has fulfilled the assurances it had given to the people. So, this Government deserves to be congratulated on this count. Hon. President has included all these points in his Address. I support this Motion and thank you very much for giving me time to speak. Jai Hind and Jai Maharashtra. SHRI AMAR ROY PRADHAN ( COOCHBEHAR ): Mr. Deputy-Speaker, Sir, I thank you for giving me this opportunity. I have got great respect for Mahamahim Rashtrapatiji who met the constitutional obligation by making a speech before the Joint Session of the Parliament. But I am sorry to say that I have been frustrated with his speech and, therefore, not able to support it. If you ask me the reason for this, I would request you to consider our ‘external affairs’. If you go through this speech and other speeches, you would find that we have not been able to stand by Iraq. We have not been able to condemn the USA and the UK for their warmongering attitude. We should have been able to say that we want peace and we are against war. We could have sent a message to the world that we are for peace. But we have not been able to do that. You know that during the debate on Iraq, the attitude of the Government is ‘so-so’. They have not been able to condemn the attitude of the USA. That is the national policy of the Government of India even though Iraq is a friend of our country. We would like to have good relations with our neighbouring countries but certainly not at the cost of our sovereignty. What about Bangladesh which is our next-door neighbouring country? So many Members spoke aloud about this aspect. But what type of diplomacy have we developed? I think, it has been the worst possible relationship with Bangladesh ever since 1971 and onwards. Today, we have developed a new type of diplomacy: ‘push back politics’. Whom are we pushing back? You are having saffron colour. You have got Hindutva. The people who speak Bengali and if they happen to be Muslims, then they say that they are Bangladeshis. This way, they are pushing them aside. We are pushing Bangladeshis in such identification and Bangladesh is also pushing Indians back. What is the human condition on the border line or on the Zero Line? A few days back it was published in the newspapers that the Indian Government became inhuman and that the attitude should be otherwise. We should expect it. Regarding terrorists activities, so many Members from the Government side mentioned about the terrorists activities. If I say that they were responsible for the terrorists activities, it will not be wrong. Sir, you know that we have got the influx problem. Since 1959 onwards, there is a Nehru-Noon Agreement for exchange of Indian and Bangladeshi enclaves. At that time, of course, it was Pakistan enclaves. Now, it is Bangladesh enclaves. We never exchanged it, but we only made some speeches or gave some assurances. I would like to say that the Government should take a note of it. Sir, it was reported in some newspapers where it was alleged that in Bangladesh there are eleven centres from where ISI activities are going on. You will be astonished to learn, with full responsibility I am stating this, that out of these eleven centres, six are on Indian land. They are Dahala Khagrabari which is in Deligan Police Station of Bangladesh – these are the enclaves which were surrendered by Bangladesh. Another is Salbari under Boda Police Station. Third is Bashkata under Patgram Police Station. Fourth is Dakurhat under Kurigram Police Station. Fifth is Bhuterkuthi under Lalmanirhat Police Station. Sixth is New Moore Islands or Purbasha, which is very much a part of Indian Union. Nobody disputes it. Since 1982 it is a part of the Indian Union. In these Islands terrorist activities are going on. It is by the side of South 24 Parganas, Sunderbans area of West Bengal. Sir, it was stated that the two day Summit level talks between the Bangladesh and India in November 1982 in Delhi succeeded in resolving Tinbigha Issue and covered considerable ground with major problems such as New Moore Island and demarcation of maritime boundary and exchange of India-Bangladesh enclaves. New Moore or Purbasha has appeared just on the south of Sunderban area of West Bengal. The chart produced by the United States Navy showed that in New Moore Island claimed by Bangladesh lies well within the territorial waters of India. According to Indo-Bangladesh Relations – page 72 : New Moore Island has got an area of 20 sq. miles. But it is under possession of Bangladesh and we are not saying anything about this and this is one of the centres of terrorist activities. Now, who is responsible? May I ask the Government? Is Bangladesh responsible for it or is the Government of India responsible for it? Sir, it is a matter of regret that we have totally failed in our External Affairs Policy. Sir, you know what is our position in NAM? In Kuala Lumpur the deliberations are going on. It is clear that once the leadership of NAM was in the hands of India. Now, it is not so. What is our position in regard to SAARC? It is so and so. We are telling that we shall not attend SAARC if such and such things are not fulfilled. This is our position. Sir, I come to another neighbour, Bhutan. Bhutan is very much adjacent to West Bengal, Bihar, Assam and all these States. We want the Indo-Bhutan River Commission just to control the floods in the North Bengal and Assam areas. You did nothing in the last five years. This is the position. You are saying all these things. Bhutan had been turned into a den of terrorist activities. KPP, ULFA and Bodo terrorists are trained in that part of the country, in Bhutan. The West Bengal Government and the Assam Government have time and again reported to the Central Government to have a negotiation with Bhutan. Bhutan said: "I do not know." This is the position. Is this the way of functioning? Sir, you know, economically we are shattered down. If you go to that part of the country, particularly Jalpaiguri, Coochbehar of West Bengal and Goalpara in Assam, you will find no Indian currency. You will get only Bhutan rupee. Is the Government not aware of this? What is the Finance Minister doing? What is the Prime Minister doing? They are sitting here. Is this the way of functioning? Sir, on all these fronts, the Central Government has failed to have a good relationship with the neighbours. Regarding other things, I have got no time to speak. It is a hard fact that 26 per cent of our total population are living below the poverty level but you are speaking about this project and that project. By this way, do you think that the country will develop? The country will never develop. So, Sir, I am sorry to say that though the hon. Mahamahim Rashtrapatiji is a respected person, I cannot support his Address that has been made to both the Houses of Parliament assembled together. श्री सुन्दर लाल तिवारी ( रीवा ) : माननीय उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, राष्ट्रपति जी के अभिभाषण पर सत्ता पक्ष के सम्माननीय प्रो, विजय कुमार मल्होत्रा जी द्वारा धन्यवाद प्रस्ताव लाया गया है, उसके उपरान्त यह चर्चा प्रारम्भ हुई है। महोदय, कुछ कहने से पहले मैं आपके माध्यम से इस सदन से दो पक्तियों में निवेदन करना चाहूंगा और यह समय मुझे दिए गए समय में न जोड़ा जाए। सत्ता पक्ष के लोगों ने जिस घृणित तरीके से एक समुदाय के बारे में यहां बात कही है, उससे यह सदन अपमानित हुआ है और हम सब की गरिमा गिरी है। यह खेदजनक बात है। मैं कहना चाहता हूं कि संसद के समक्ष भारत के राष्ट्रपति महोदय ने अभिभाषण पढ़ा है। राष्ट्रपति महोदय एक समुदाय के हैं और आपने ही वोट देकर उनको चुना है। आपने ही प्रत्याशी बनाया है और उस समुदाय के लोगों से इतनी घृणा की, तो जब आप वोट दे रहे थे, तब क्या कर रहे थे । उस समय आपने अपने नेताओं से क्यों नहीं कहा कि हम मुस्लिम समुदाय के लोगों को नहीं चुनेंगे। इस तरह की घृणा की बात कहना और वह व्यक्ति उस समुदाय का है । …( व्यवधान) श्री श्याम बिहारी मिश्र :जिन लोगों ने गलत काम किया है, उनके लिए कहा गया है। सारे समुदाय के लिए नहीं कहा गया है। …( व्यवधान) आप ऐसी बातें कह कर देश का माहौल बिगाड़ रहे हैं। माननीय सदस्य ने वह बात पूरे समाज के लिए नहीं कही। …( व्यवधान) MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: We are short of time. If there is any objectionable thing, I will expunge it. Why are you standing up? …( व्यवधान) उपाध्यक्ष महोदय: जो गलत बात होगी, मैं वह एक्सपंज कर दूंगा। श्री सुन्दर लाल तिवारी :महामहिम राष्ट्रपति जी ने और उस समुदाय के व्यक्ति ने जिस के लिए आपने किन-किन शब्दों का प्रयोग नहीं किया, यह कहना उचित नहीं होगा। उन्होंने कहा है कि मैं आपके प्रयासों की सफलता के लिए शुभकामनाएं देता हूं लेकिन आपने समूचे समुदाय को लांछित करने का प्रयास इस सदन में किया जो उचित नहीं है। यह भविष्य के लिए और प्रजातंत्र के लिए भी अच्छी बात नहीं है। वह सज्जन चले गए। …( व्यवधान) कुंवर अखिलेश सिंह ( महाराजगंज, उ.प्र. ) : एक संसदीय समति गोरखपुर चले। वहां विश्व हिन्दू सम्मेलन हुआ और उसमें नाथूराम गौडसे को महिमामंडित किया गया।… (Interruptions) MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: Nothing will go on record except the speech of Shri Sunder Lal Tiwari. (Interruptions) * 

MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: Shri Sunder Lal Tiwari, why do you not address the Chair? You are creating problem. … (Interruptions) MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: Shri Shyam Bihari Mishra, will you please resume your seat? जो कुछ गलत होगा, मैं एक्सपंज करूंगा। श्री सुन्दर लाल तिवारी: मैं इसकी भत्र्सना करता हूं। सत्ता पक्ष के लोगों ने जो अपनी बातें कही है वे इतनी बढ़-चढ़ कर कही हैं कि उससे लगता है कि देश में सारी समस्याएं इन चार वर्षों में समाप्त हो चुकी है। न किसानों की समस्या रह गई, न बेरोजगारी की कोई समस्या रह गई, न गरीबों की कोई समस्या रह गई है यानी पूरी समस्याओं का निदान हो चुका है। केवल एक समस्या देश में रह गई है कि खून बहाओ और कत्ले आम करो। पढ़े-लिखे देश के करोड़ों इंजीनियर, डॉक्टर, ओवरसियर, ग्रैजुएट और पोस्ट ग्रैजुएट पास युवक बेरोजगारी झेल रहे हैं और रोजगार कार्यालयों में लम्बी-लम्बी कतारों पर खड़े हैं। प्रधान मंत्री जी ने हिमाचल के चुनावों में मंदिर बनाने की बात कही। यदि उन्होंने यह कहा होता कि एक करोड़ पढ़े-लिखे बेरोजगारों को हम नौकरी देंगे तो सम्भवत: उधर से ही नहीं इधर से भी प्रसन्नता होती और हम भी प्रसन्नता व्यक्त करते। जो पढ़े-लिखे बेरोजगार देश में हैं, उनको नौकरी देने की एक भी बात उन्होंने नहीं कही। पूरे अभिभाषण में इसका कहीं उल्लेख नहीं है। आखिर पढ़े-लिखे इंजीनियर, डॉक्टर, ग्रेजुएट, पोस्ट ग्रैजुएट, १२वीं कक्षा पास लड़के कहां जाएंगे? उनको क्या रास्ता बताया जा रहा है? वे युवक देश की शक्ति हैं। क्या उनसे मस्जिद गिरवायी जाएगी? उनसे मंदिर बनवाएंगे, मस्जिद बनवाएंगे? उन हाथों को क्या काम देना चाहते हैं? देश की युवा शक्ति बेरोजगारी की जो मार झेल रही है. उनके बारे में सरकार विचार करे। यदि यह विचार नहीं किया गया तो देश और समाज के लिए वह घातक होगा। कहते हैं कि सरकार चल रही है। एक फैसला पिछले पांच साल में बता दीजिए कि देश में कोई विवाद पैदा हुआ है तो इस सरकार ने निर्णय लिया। इस सरकार ने कभी निर्णय नहीं लिया। अदालत ने बाध्य किया कि निर्णय लीजिए तब निर्णय को माना। * Not Recorded. कौन-कौन से उदाहरण दिये जायें? जहां तक कावेरी डिस्प्यूट का मामला है। इसमें अदालत का फैसला आया। गरीबों को अनाज बांटने की बात आई और जब भुखमरी से लोग मर रहे थे, सुप्रीम कोर्ट का आदेश आया कि गरीबों को अनाज बांटा जाये। किस किस तरह की बात की गई, कहां आपने निर्णय लिये हैं? पर्यावरण में सुधार के लिये सी.एन.जी. बसेज चलाये जाने के लिये सुप्रीम कोर्ट का आदेश आया। ऐसे एक नहीं सैंकड़ों-हजारों मामले आये हैं जहां सरकार दुविधा में रही और अंतिम फैसला अदालत का ही आया। मैं आपसे कहना चाहता हूं कि इस पर ध्यान देने की आवश्यकता है। सरकार स्वमेव निर्णय ले लेकिन सरकार इस स्थिति में नहीं है। जब नदियों को जोड़ने की बात आयी तो सुप्रीम कोर्ट ने आदेश दिया, तब सरकार की नींद खुली। प्रो. रासा सिंह रावत ( अजमेर ): आपने ४५ साल में क्या किया? श्री सुन्दर लाल तिवारी : उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, सुप्रीम कोर्ट ने कहा कि फैक्टि्रयां हटाई जायें नहीं तो पर्यावरण खराब होगा। इन्होंने सरकारी उपक्रमों को बेचने का निर्णय लिया। इसके लिये कोई संकोच नहीं किया। उसके दुष्परिणाम सामने आ रहे हैं कि निजीकरण की वजह से उन उद्योगों में से रोजगारों के निकालकर बाहर किया जा रहा है। यह शंका का विषय है कि निजी कम्पनियां इन बेरोजगारों के लिये चिता करेंगी। जिस ढंग से निजीकरण हो रहा है, उससे व्यापारी धन कमायेंगे। देश के बेरोजगारों को काम नहीं मिलेगा। उनके लिये कोई रास्ता चुनना पड़ेगा। यहां देश के गौरव की बात कही गई कि माननीय वाजपेयी जी देश के प्रधानमंत्री हैं जिसके नेतृत्व में देश का गौरव बढ़ा है। सरकार को सूचना नहीं मिली और करगिल हो गया। संसद भवन में आतंकवादी घुस आये और भवन की बिल्िंडग पर कितनी गोलियों के निशान मौजूद हैं। क्या आपने इस देश का गौरव बढ़ा दिया है? हम लोगों को भगवान ने बचा दिया नहीं तो सरकार का गौरव निकल जाता। कहां था आपका सूचनातंत्र, खुफियातंत्र, उसे क्या हो गया था? ईश्वर ने हम सब को बचा लिया नहीं तो आज सदन भी नहीं बचता। जो आज हिन्दू-मुसलमान की बात कर रहे हैं, उस दिन कहां दुबके पड़े थे? इन से पूछिये, क्यों नहीं सामने आकर मुकाबला किया? ये इस बिल्िंडग में कहां घुसे हुये थे…( व्यवधान) श्री श्याम बिहारी मिश्र :तिवारी जी, आप ऐसा मत कहिये क्योंकि मेरे एक साथी को गोली 

लगी थी, आप कहां थे? श्री सुन्दर लाल तिवारी : मैं उस दिन यहां नहीं था। प्रधानमंत्री जी अयोध्या की बात कर गये। श्री मोहन रावले : आपके कांग्रेसी राज में जब बम बलास्ट हुये, क्या उस समय आपको सूचना मिली थी? आपकी सरकार उस समय क्या कर रही थी? श्री सुन्दर लाल तिवारी : हमारी सरकार के समय ९३ हजार पाकिस्तानी फौजों को गिरफ्तार किया गया था। उससे पाकिस्तान का नक्शा ही बदल गया। उस समय नेतृत्व स्व. श्रीमती इन्दिरा गांधी का था और वह प्रधानमंत्री थी। श्री मोहन रावले : उन्हें छोड़ दिया गया, इससे हिन्दुस्तान को क्या मिला? श्री सुन्दर लाल तिवारी : लेकिन आपके विदेश मंत्री श्री जसवंत सिंह जी आतंकवादियों को कंधार हवाई जहाज से ले गये थे। हमने उनसे माफी मंगवाई थी। भुट्टो जी यहां आये और शिमला समझौता हुआ था, उसके बाद ९३००० सैनिकों को छोड़ा गया। आप क्या कर रहे हो…( व्यवधान) श्री मोहन रावले : जो पाकिस्तान ऑकुपाइड कश्मीर था, जो पाकिस्तान के कब्जे में हैं, वह आपने वापस क्यों नहीं लिया। आपने उन्हें ऐसे ही छोड़ दिया।…( व्यवधान) श्री सुन्दर लाल तिवारी :उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, इस देश में २५ हजार जवान मारे जा चुके हैं, शहीद हो चुके हैं। प्रधान मंत्री जी ने यही कहा था कि अब सहन नहीं होता, अब पाकिस्तान को सबक सिखायेंगे और पता लगा अटैची सीधे अमेरिका चली गई। कितनी बार प्रधान मंत्री अमरीका गये, गृह मंत्री और विदेश मंत्री गये। ऐसा लगता है बार-बार अनुमति लेने के लिए यह अमरीका जाते हैं। जब देश की प्रधान मंत्री श्रीमती इंदिरा गांधी थीं, वह अनुमति लेने के लिए कभी अमरीका नहीं गई थीं। उन्होंने पाकिस्तान को जवाब दिया था। यह कहते हैं कि अदालत की बात मानेंगे, प्रधान मंत्री जी ने कहा था। यह अदालत उसी तरह है, जिस तरह से अमरीका के क्िंलटन और बुश कह रहे हैं कि हम टैरेरिज्म से लड़ेंगे। वह टैरेरिज्म से लड़ने की बात करते हैं। लड्डू-पेड़ा हमारे हिंदुस्तान में आकर खाते हैं और उसी शाम को पाकिस्तान चले जाते हैं। यह टैरेरिज्म खत्म करने की बात करते हैं। इराक पर अमरीका हमला करने के लिए तैयार है। वह सारी दुनिया की बात मानने के लिए तैयार नहीं है और अमरीका की खुशामद हमारे प्रधान मंत्री जी कर रहे हैं। MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: Shri Sunder Lal Tiwari, now please conclude. I am calling the next speaker. … (Interruptions) श्री सुन्दर लाल तिवारी :उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, मैं अंतिम बात कहना चाहता हूं कि इस देश को मंदिर और मस्जिद के विवाद में न उलझाया जाए। इस देश के बेरोजगार लोगों, किसानों और मजदूरों के संबंध में सचेत रहने की आवश्यकता है।…( व्यवधान) श्री मोहन रावले : यह सदन को गुमराह करने की कोशिश कर रहे हैं। प्रधान मंत्री जी अमरीका को कहते हैं कि वह इराक पर हमला न करे, उन्होंने उसकी सराहना नहीं की है। श्री सुन्दर लाल तिवारी : आप बेरोजगार हाथों को रोजगार दीजिए, यही मेरा कहना है। इतना कहकर मैं अपना वक्तव्य समाप्त करता हूं। श्री मोहन रावले : उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, जब श्री नरसिंहराव जी की कांग्रेस सरकार बनी थी तो कांग्रेस के मेनिफैस्टो में लिखा था कि हम एक करोड़ लोगों को पांच साल में रोजगार देंगे। आपने कितने लोगों को रोजगार दिया।…( व्यवधान) श्रीमती जयश्री बैनर्जी ( जबलपुर ) :माननीय उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, मैं आपको धन्यवाद देती हूं कि आपने मुझे बोलने का समय दिया। महामहिम राष्ट्रपति जी के अभिभाषण पर धन्यवाद प्रस्ताव श्री वी.के.मल्होत्रा द्वारा प्रस्ताव पेश किया गया है और उसे श्री सुरेश प्रभु जी के द्वारा अनुमोदित किया गया है, मैं इस प्रस्ताव का समर्थन करती हूं। महोदय, राष्ट्रीय विकास परिषद दसवीं पंचवर्षीय योजना के कार्यक्रम के बारे में यहां कहा गया है, जिसका अभिभाषण में मैं स्वागत करती हूं। इसमें और भी बहुत सी चीजें है, लेकिन मैं सदन का ज्यादा समय न लेते हुए कुछ प्वाइंट्स आपके सामने रखना चाहती हूं। जो रोजगार के नये अवसर, सहभागिता, परविकास का लक्ष्य इस कार्यक्रम में दिया गया है। Plan is not resource-Plan but also reform-Plan. इसमें राज्य सरकार सुधार के लिए आर्थिक क्षेत्र में प्रोत्साहन दिया गया है। लेकिन हमारे भाइयों को ये सब चीजें बिल्कुल नहीं दीखती हैं। कोई भी राष्ट्र जब तक महान नहीं बन सकता, जब तक वह एक ऊर्जा नहित संकल्प से अपनी क्षमताओं का उपयोग नहीं करता और इसके बारे में बहुत विस्तारित रूप में इसमें कहा गया है। किसान आधारित उत्पादन क्षमता में समृद्धि, रहन-सहन का बेहतर अवसर और सभी को मकान और सौ प्रतिशत साक्षरता, नैतिक मूल्यों का जोड़ना, नया संकल्प, विजन २०२० तैयार किया गया है। हर राष्ट्र के सामने एक विजन रहता है। यह पहली बार है जो प्रधान मंत्री जी ने अपनी सरकार में इस तरह का विजन तैयार करके विकास की दिशा में कार्य करने का संकल्प लिया है। स्वर्ण जयंती जनांदोलन के लिए एक कार्य योजना भी बनाई गई है। जनभागीदारी, जनप्रभावी क्रियान्वयन सम्पर्क और ग्राम क्षेत्रों में शहरों की सुविधाएं उपलब्ध कराना। अगर किसी देश का विकास करना है तो शहरी क्षेत्र को छोड़कर ग्रामीण क्षेत्र का विकास होना चाहिए, देश की दो-तिहाई जनता ग्रामीण क्षेत्र में रहती है और उसके लिए सरकार ने काफी काम किया है। उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, ज्ञान संबंधी संयोजन, मार्केट संयोजन ग्रामीण विकास के लिए भी इसमें किया गया है। राष्ट्र की सुरक्षा की समस्या सबके सामने है। कश्मीर का चुनाव एक बहुत बड़ा उदाहरण है जो हमारी सरकार ने करके बताया है। आज रक्षा के अनुसंधान और विकास संगठन के साइन्टिस्ट और इंजीनियर जिस तरह से हमारे देश के विकास की दिशा में कार्य कर रहे हैं, वह बधाई के पात्र हैं। उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, आपको यहां पर दस कदम चलो और ९० कदम हम चलेंगे, इस कार्य योजना के तहत १० प्रतिशत प्रदेश और ९० प्रतिशत केन्द्र इस कॉम्बिनेशन के आधार पर स्वजलधारा प्रोग्राम में ग्रामीण पेयजल आपूर्ति कार्यक्रम को बढ़ावा मिला है। नेशनल कमीशन ऑफ वॉटर रिसोर्स द्वारा देश में पानी की समस्या को दूर करने के लिए नदियों को जोड़ने की कार्रवाई हो रही है, उसके लिए वे बधाई के पात्र हैं। देश में ड्राउट और फ्लड दो समस्याएं ऐसी हैं जो हमेशा देश को घाटे में पहुँचाती हैं और संकट में पहुँचाती हैं। उसके लिए भी सरकार कटिबद्ध है और काम कर रही है। हरियाली कार्यक्रम जल विभाजक कार्यक्रमों के विकास को बढ़ावा देने के लिए एक नया कार्यक्रम सरकार ने लिया है। उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, किसान हमारे देश में बहुत प्रमुख भूमिका रखते हैं। किसानों को क्रैडिट कार्ड दिये गये हैं और मनिमम सपोर्ट प्राइस सरकार ने दिया है। फर्टिलाइज्जेर के लिए आज उनको खड़ा नहीं रहना पड़ता, लाइन नहीं लगानी पड़ती। यूरिया और डीएपी की पर्याप्त मात्रा में सहायता मिलती है। अंत्योदय योजना के तहत जो कार्यक्रम चल रहा है, उसमें ग्रामीण क्षेत्रों के गरीबों को बहुत सहयोग मिल रहा है। प्रधान मंत्री सड़क योजना में ७००० करोड़ रुपये की लागत से २०००० कि.मी. सड़कें बनी हैं। शेरशाह के बाद अटल बिहारी वाजपेयी जी ऐसे पहले शासक हैं जिन्होंने भारत में इतने बड़े पैमाने पर सड़क निर्माण कराया। इस माध्यम से बहुत से गांवों को शहरों से जोड़ा गया है। उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, बाल विकास योजना के माध्यम से बच्चों को अपने सपनों को साकार करने के लिए कहा गया है। ५१ जिलों में पोषण आहार मिशन शुरू किया गया है। राष्ट्रीय बाल आयोग का गठन किया जा रहा है जो देश के भविष्य का रास्ता बताएगा। छ: से बारह साल तक के बच्चों को शिक्षा का मौलिक अधिकार सर्वशिक्षा अभियान के तहत दिया गया है जो ५५०० करोड़ रुपये की लागत से बनाया गया है। आई.आई.टी. की उत्कृष्ट सेवा के पचास वर्षों में जो रेकार्ड काम हुआ है, आज ग्रामीण क्षेत्र हर क्षेत्र के साथ मोबाइल और फोन से जुड़ा हुआ है, उसके लिए मैं उनको बधाई देना चाहती हूँ। महिलाओं का आर्थिक सशक्तीकरण किया जा रहा है जिसमें ३० प्रतिशत बजट महिलाओं पर खर्च होगा। इसमें ४३ प्रतिशत राशि महिला संबंधी योजनाओं पर लगाई जा रही है। इसके लिए मैं सरकार को बधाई देती हूँ। आज महिलाओं के सशक्तीकरण की बहुत आवश्यकता है और महिलाओं के लिए लोक सभा में ३० प्रतिशत आरक्षण का बिल भी पास होना चाहिए, यह मैं कहना चाहती हूँ। राष्ट्रीय स्वास्थ्य नीति २००२ की घोषणा की गई है। हमारी यह नैतिक और सामाजिक जिम्मेदारी है कि बालिका भ्रूण हत्या एवं नवजात बच्चों की हत्या जैसी बुराइयों के विरोध में एक सतत् अभियान चलाएं। खेल नीति के माध्यम से युवा वर्ग को प्रोत्साहन मिला है। बायो रिसोर्सेज़ एक प्राकृतिक देन है जिसके तहत हमारे यहां वन रोपण किया जा रहा है। जैव संसाधनों के संरक्षण के तहत विगत दस सालों से उष्ण कटिबंधीय वन अनुसंधान संस्थान में दुर्लभ प्रजाति के लगभग ३५० से अधिक प्रकार की वनौषधि का जीन बैंक एकत्र किया गया है। आज बहुते लोग आयुर्वेदिक औषधियों का प्रयोग करते हैं। इस तरह का जो अनुसंधान कार्य कर रहा है, शासन उसमें अपना सहयोग दे रहा है। आपने मुझे बोलने के लिए समय दिया, उसके लिए मैं आपका धन्यवाद करते हुए तथा राष्ट्रपति जी के अभिभाषण का समर्थन करते हुए अपनी बात समाप्त करती हूँ। श्री जोवाकिम बखला ( अलीपुरद्वारस ): माननीय उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, मैं आपको धन्यवाद देता हूं कि आपने मुझे महामहिम राष्ट्रपति जी के अभिभाषण पर प्रस्तुत धन्यवाद प्रस्ताव पर अपने विचार व्यक्त करने का अवसर प्रदान किया है। मेरा राष्ट्रपति जी के प्रति पूरा सम्मान है, लेकिन जो रोजी पिक्चर अभिभाषण में दिखाई गई है, मैं अपना उससे अलग ओपीनियन रखता हूं। अन्तर्राष्ट्रीय परिद्ृष्य पर देखें, तो मैं बताना चाहता हूं और विशेषकर सरकार को आगाह करना चाहता हूं कि इराक पर जिस तरह से दबाव बढ़ा है और उसे दबाए रखने के लिए जिस तरह से अमरीका आक्रमण करना चाहता है, मैं और मेरी पार्टी इसका पूरी तरह से विरोध करती है और मुझे लगता है कि यह टैस्ट-चैक है। अमरीका अपने साम्राज्यवाद का विस्तार करना चाहता है। जिस प्रकार से ब्रटिशर्श ने अपने साम्राज्य का विस्तार हमारे देश में किया था और जिस प्रकार से हमने उसे हटाया था, उसी प्रकार से अमरीका इराक पर आक्रमण कर के अपने साम्राज्य का विस्तार करना चाहता है। मैं सरकार से निवेदन करना चाहता हूं कि जिस प्रकार से हमारे प्रधान मंत्री ने कहा कि महाशक्ति को महा-संयम बरतने की आवश्यकता है, ऐसा कहने मात्र से काम नहीं चलेगा, बल्कि इराक को जिस प्रकार से चेतावनी दी गई है, उसी प्रकार से हमें महाशक्ति को भी बताना होगा कि उसे इराक पर आक्रमण करने के अपने निर्णय को बदलना होगा। उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, राष्ट्रपति जी के अभिभाषण में देश की जिस प्रकार की रोजी पिक्चर पेश की गई है, वह नहीं है, चाहे आप किसी भी क्षेत्र को ले लीजिए। मैं आपके माध्यम से बताना चाहता हूं कि शिक्षा के क्षेत्र में १०वीं पंचवर्षीय योजना के लिए जितना एलोकेशन होना चाहिए था उतनी नहीं हो रहा है। गावों में देखिए शिक्षा की हालत क्या है। जहां शिक्षक हैं, वहां भवन नहीं हैं और जहां भवन हैं, वहां शिक्षक नहीं हैं। झारखंड में मायनारिटी संस्थाओं द्वारा जो स्कूल चलाए जाते हैं, उन स्कूलों के शिक्षकों को कई महीनों से वेतन नहीं दिया जा रहा है। जहां देश में ऐसी स्थिति हो, वहां मैं राष्ट्रपति जी के अभिभाषण की प्रशंसा कैसे कर सकता हूं। महोदय, उद्योग के क्षेत्र में देखें, तो हमारे देश में जो रोजगार सृजन की स्थिति थी, उसमें कमी आई है। चाहे आप कुटीर उद्योग को लें, चाहे लघु उद्योग को लीजिए और चाहे चाय उद्योग को ले लीजिए, स्थिति बहुत गम्भीर है। हमारे देश को विदेशी मुद्रा दिलाने में चाय उद्योग का बहुत महत्वपूर्ण योगदान है। राष्ट्रपति जी के अभिभाषण में चाय उद्योग के बारे में सरकार की क्या रीति और नीति है, इस बारे में हमें कोई जानकारी नहीं मिलती है। मेरा सरकार से निवेदन है कि चाय और कॉफी उद्योग पर विशेष ध्यान देना चाहिए। चाय बागान में हजारों मजदूर काम करते थे जिन्हें आज स्थित यह है कि काम नहीं मिल रहा है, जिसके कारण वे बड़ी संकटपूर्ण स्थिति में हैं। बच्चों का स्कूल जाना बन्द हो गया है। कहीं उन्हें खाना नहीं मिल रहा है। चाय बागान उद्योग में ४०० लोग मारे गए हैं और अभी भी ५०-६० चाय-बागान बन्द कर के रखे हुए हैं। इस स्थिति को ध्यान में रखते हुए सरकार क्या करने जा रही है, इस बारे में राष्ट्रपति जी के अभिभाषण में कुछ भी स्पष्ट नहीं लिखा है। महोदय, भारत और भूटान का जो संपर्क है उसके बारे में अमर राय प्रधान जी ने कहा कि विदेशी मुद्रा हमारे देश में प्रचलित है। भूटान की करेंसी का व्यवहार हमारे देश में किया जा रहा है। मैं सरकार से जानना चाहता हूं कि क्या सरकार को इसकी जानकारी है। अगर जानकारी है, तो सरकार ने भूटानी करेंसी के भारत में व्यवहार पर रोक लगाने के लिए क्या कदम उठाए हैं और और यदि जानकारी नहीं है, तो सरकार को अब तक इसकी जानकारी क्यों नहीं है। मैं जानना चाहता हूं कि इंडो-भूटान जाइंट रिवर कमीशन का जो प्रस्ताव हम लाए थे, उसके विषय में इस सरकार का क्या रवैया है। इस मामले को हम बहुत समय से उठा रहे हैं, लेकिन अभी तक सरकार ने इस बारे में कोई निर्णय नहीं लिया है। मैं निवेदन करना चाहता हूं कि इस बारे शीघ्रतिशीघ्र विचार किया जाना चाहिए। महोदय, इसके साथ-साथ मैं निवेदन करना चाहता हूं कि वनिवेश की जो प्रक्रिया चल रही है, वह ठीक नहीं है। हम देखते हैं कि वनिवेश उन संस्थां का हो रहा है जो लाभकारी संस्थाएं हैं। देश के लिए जो लाभ कमा रही है उनको बेचने का काम यह सरकार कर रही है। लाभकारी संस्थाओं को ही बेचने का इस सरकार का प्रयास नहीं है बल्कि इस देश को ही बेचने का काम यह सरकार करना चाहती है। मुझे लगता है कि कहीं ऐसा न हो कि विजन २०२० का जो सपना दिखाया गया है, तब कर हमारा देश कहीं आर्थिक गुलामी की जंजीर में न जकड़ जाए। चूंकि यह सरकार इस तरफ ध्यान नहीं दे रही है इसलिए मैं निवेदन करना चाहता हूं और आगाह करना चाहता हूं ताकि हमें आर्थिक गुलामी का शिकार न होना पड़े। महोदय, मैं इस अभिभाषण का समर्थन नहीं कर पा रहा हूं, क्योंकि अभिभाषण में जो कहा गया है, वास्तविक स्थिति उससे बिलकुल अलग है। SHRI E. PONNUSWAMY ( CHIDAMBARAM ): Mr. Deputy-Speaker, Sir, I thank you very much for permitting me to say a few words on the Motion of Thanks on the President’s Address. It is very easy to criticise or to condemn and to find fault, but it is very difficult to perform. Our esteemed friends on the other side are always finding fault only. They do not appreciate because they do not think about the past 50 years of their rule as to what they have done. What they have not done in 50 years time, this NDA Government has done in five years. They need not appreciate it. But they should not depreciate it. All the programmes that are being materialised now, they had not even initiated them in the 50 years of their rule. They should think about it. Take, for example, roads. Even after 55 years of our Independence, there is no road in the villages. But now, the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojna has taken up the work which is going on in a transparent manner, putting thousands of crores of rupees. The roads are coming up now. Take, for example, drinking water. For 50 years, the village women have been treking miles and miles to fetch water. Now, there is Swajal Dhara. "Das kadam aap chale, nabbe kadam hum chalenge" is the message. Now, water is there in every village. Similarly, in all the other schemes, same is the pace of progrerss. Now take, for example, electricity. There is a Kutir Jyoti Programme. Each village is given electricity in spite of the odds and challenges faced by the distribution system. According to the Kutir Jyoti Programme, every hut is given one lamp. This has been done by our NDA Government. They did not do it in 50 years of their rule. Sir, it is my personal experience. My own grand daughter who is of three years age, speaks over phone and operates a computer. Such is the advancement of communications in five years time. Up till the age of 18 or 20, I did not see even a bus. They ruled this country for 50 years but they did not do all this. They had given the slogan Garibi Hatao.But did they solve the unemployment problem? The poor man had become poorer and the rich man had become richer under their scheme. Sir, in regard to external affairs, we have been extending all cordial cooperation to all the countries, even to Pakistan. But Pakistan is not understanding our generosity and taking it as our weakness. We will not offend anybody. But we will defend ourselves with one voice, and the whole of India will stand and face any challenge. Pakistan should understand this. To face any challenge, our internal preparedness is there. Our hon. Prime Minister, in 1998, started the much required defence preparedness. Now, there is a point regarding the empowerment of women. For the last 55 years of our Independence, we have not done justice to the women. For the empowerment of women, at least, we should give 33 per cent reservation to women for atoning the sin of crushing them for centuries together. Sir, another point is about untouchability. Mahatma Gandhi has called untouchability a blot on the face of the society. What have we done? We have not eradicated untouchability so far. During the 50 years of their rule, the Congress people should have done something to eradicate untouchability. But they have crushed Ambedkarism. They had not cooperated with Ambedkar. Even for the slum dwellers, now this Government has started Balmiki Ambedkar Vikas Yojna. Various schemes are coming up, not in the individual names but on behalf of people. This Government has made remarkably wonderful achievements in five years time though it consists of 24 parties. But a single-party rule of our esteemed friends on the other side which has ruled this country for more than 46 years has not done anything on this score. 22.00 hrs. 

Sir, now my only concern is regarding the POTA. We, the PMK people, under the able leadership of Dr. Ramdoss, supported this Bill. I would only appeal to the Government that we supported this Bill in good faith that it will never be used against the politicians and it is only meant for the terrorists. But it is being misused. All the people know what is happening in Tamil Nadu and other opposition-ruled States. I would only like to request the Government that this provision should not be allowed to be misused. Finally, the Ministry of Rural Development has started giving power to the Members of Parliament by appointing them as Chairman of the Vigilance and Monitoring Committees for finding out the lapses. It wants the Members to be just vigilant and see that all the programmes are implemented within the stipulated time and also within the estimated cost. To achieve all this, everybody’s cooperation is necessary. It is easy just to find fault. When you show one finger to others, the three fingers point towards you. You have done more harm than anybody else. So, we hope that you should never criticise others. They have every right to criticise and find any number of lapses, but they should also suggest ways and means to correct it. But only criticising and finding fault is not a constructive attitude of any opposition. Sir, we had 46 years of their rule and for four years, other parties have ruled. What they could not do or even dreamt of, have been done by the NDA Government in four years’ time… (Interruptions). Shri Suresh, you can say anything when you get the opportunity to speak. I am not yielding to you at all. So I request all my friends in this august House not to find fault but extend your cooperation. If you just want to make a noise, you need two hands. Therefore, you should cooperate with the Government so that people could get all the basic necessities, at least, in villages. श्री सुबोध राय ( भागलपुर ):उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, मैं राष्ट्रपति जी के प्रति पूर्ण सम्मान रखते हुए भी उनका अभिभाषण जिसमें केन्द्र सरकार की उपलब्धियों के बारे में चर्चा की गयी है, उससे मैं किसी भी तरह से सहमत नहीं हो सकता हूं। यह पूरा किसानों के खिलाफ, माइनोरिटीज के खिलाफ, देश के नौजवानों के खिलाफ, देश के गरीब लोगों के खिलाफ अभियान का बहुत बड़ा दस्तावेज है। यह देश में पूरी तरह से गरीबी को और बढ़ाने वाला है। जो बड़ी-बड़ी देशी और विदेशी कम्पनियां लूट करने वाली हैं, जो बड़े-बड़े पूंजीपति हैं, जो इजारेदार हैं उनके हाथ को मजबूत करने वाला है। इस वनिवेश के नाम पर जिस बेरहमी के साथ देश की आर्थिक सम्पति को लूटने का काम किया जा रहा है, उसने बहुत भारी तबाही की है। इस वनिवेश ने लाखों लोगों को सड़कों पर धकेला है जिसका प्रदर्शन कल २६ फरवरी को इसी दिल्ली में होने जा रहा है। सारे भारतवर्ष के कोने-कोने से लाखों मजदूर, कर्मचारी, महिलाएं, खेत मजदूर बड़ी तादाद में अपनी मांग यहां रखने आ रहे हैं कि वनिवेश की जो नीति है, वैश्वीकरण की जो नीति है, निजीकरण की जो नीति है जिसके चलते देश में दरिद्रता और तबाही बढ़ रही है, उसको वापिस लिये जाने का काम होना चाहिए। देश की जनता के सामने यह सबसे बड़ा सवाल है कि आज देश बेचने वालों को देशभक्त कहा जाए या उनके खिलाफ जो संघर्ष कर रहे हैं, कुर्बानी दे रहे हैं, उनको देशभक्त कहा जाए। आज किसानोंकी क्या हालत है, यह किसी से छिपी नहीं है। जिन किसानों का नाम लेकर ये सत्ता में आए हैं, आज उस गन्ना किसान की हालत दयनीय है। जब गन्ना किसानों ने अपनी मांगों के लिए, बकाए के लिए, अपने खून-पसीने की कमाई को हासिल करने के लिए आंदोलन किया, तो उन पर गोलियों की बौछार की गई। उत्तर प्रदेश में जिस तरह की घटना हुई है, उसने जाहिर किया है कि सरकार कितनी बर्बर है, असभ्य है और अपराधियों की सरकार है। किस तरह से यह किसानों के खिलाफ काम कर रही है, यह इससे जाहिर हो गया है। महोदय, जब सुखाड़ का सवाल हमने इस सदन में उठाया और १४ राज्यों के किसानों के लिए जबर्दस्त मांग उठाने का काम किया था तो उस वक्त प्रधान मंत्री जी का दिल नहीं पसीजा था। केन्द्रीय सरकार का दिल नहीं पसीजा था। लेकिन जब बारिश का मौसम आया और बारिश शुरू हुई तब यहां से राहत की राशि भेजने का कुछ अंशों में काम कियागया। उसी वक्त उत्तरी बिहार बुरी तरह से बाढ़ में डूबा हुआ था। भारत के कई राज्यों में सुखाड़ की स्थिति थी। बिहार में भी गंगा के दक्षिणी इलाके में सुखाड़ की स्थिति थी, क्योंकि वहां बारिश नहीं हुई थी। लेकिन बिहार के किसानों को, बिहार की बहुत बड़ी आबादी को बाढ़ की भीषण त्रासदी के चलते सैंकड़ों लोगों को जान गंवानी पड़ी थी और हजारों लोगों को भूखों मरने के लिए मजबूर होना पड़ा था। उस वक्त केन्द्रीय सरकार ने जितनी निष्ठुरता और निर्दयता का परिचय दिया, उसकी कोई मिसाल इसके पहले नहीं मिलती है। लेकिन गर्व से कहा जा रहा है कि हमने पिछले चार सालों में भारतवर्ष को स्वर्ग बनाने का काम किया है। अगर भारतवर्ष को स्वर्ग ही बनाने का काम किया गया है तो कत्लेआम की राजनीति में विश्वास क्यों किया जा रहा है ? क्यों माइनोरटीज के खिलाफ, एक सम्प्रदाय विशेष के खिलाफ, क्यों मंदिर के सवाल पर, अयोध्या के सवाल पर इतना जुनून, इतना उन्माद, इतनी हिंसा और नफरत का वातावरण पैदा करने का काम किया जा रहा है ? उसकी क्या जरूरत है? हमारे यहां बुनकरों की हालत बहुत खराब है। हमारे बुनकर आज भारत सरकार की वैश्वीकरण की नीति के कारण भूख से मरने को विवश हैं। जो कुटीर उद्योग हैं, वे सारे चौपट हो रहे हैं। आज वे लोग शहरों में पलायन करने को मजबूर हो रहे हैं और उनमें भय का वातावरण व्याप्त है। लेकिन उनको राहत देने के लिए सरकार तैयार नहीं है। इसी तरह से बिजली की हालत बहुत खराब है। पावरलूम चलाने के लिए बिजली नहीं है, न ही सिंचाई के लिए बिजली मिल रही है। बुनकरों को भी बिजली नहीं मिल रही है और न ही किसानों को बिजली मिल रही है। छोटे-छोटे उद्योग और व्यापारी नष्ट हो रहे हैं और यह सरकार कह रही है कि हमने देश को स्वर्ग बनाने का काम किया है। उपाध्यक्ष महोदय : आपकी पार्टी का समय खत्म हो गया है। श्री सुबोध राय : मैं दो मिनट में अपनी बात समाप्त कर दूंगा। बुनकरों की हालत इतनी बदतर हो गई है, लेकिन केन्द्रीय सरकार को उसकी कोई चिंता नहीं है। हमारे नौजवानों को भी तबाही का सामना करना पड़ रहा है। वे लोग कोई भी कुर्बानी देने के लिए तैयार हैं। वे फौज में भर्ती होने के लिए तैयार हैं, लेकिन भारत सरकार की हैसियत नहीं है कि वह उनको ले सके। जब नौजवान अपनी मांगों को लेकर इकट्ठे होते हैं, तो उन पर गोलियां चलाई जाती हैं, लाठियां चलाई जाती हैं और उनको खदेड़ दिया जाता है। यह सरकार आतंकवाद से मुकाबला करना चाहती है। आतंकवाद का मुकाबला करने के लिए देश के किसान, मजदूर और नौजवान सभी तैयार हैं, लेकिन उनको विश्वास में नहीं लिया जाता है। देश की फौज कुर्बानी के लिए तैयार है। लेकिन कायरों की जमात से, पाखंडियों की जमात से देश की सुरक्षा चाहे वह आंतरिक हो या बाहरी हो, कोई भी सम्भव नहीं हो सकती। इसलिए मैं इतना ही कहूंगा कि यह जो राष्ट्रपति जी का अभिभाषण है, यह इस सरकार की बर्बरता, असभ्यता और पाखंड को उचित ठहराने का दस्तावेज है इसलिए मैं इसके खिलाफ हूं। *SHRI KODIKUNNIL SURESH ( ADOOR ): Respected Deputy Speaker Sir, at the outset, let me thank you for giving me an opportunity to speak on the Motion of Thanks on the Presidential Address. I find the Presidential Address to be just a formal and normal speech without any uniqueness. It simply details the Government programmes and showers accolades on the Government, yet there was no major achievement to the mentioned. The speech was very disappointing. Sir, it did neither touch upon the major problems confronting the country nor did it extend any possible solutions. The real issues faced by us are unemployment and poverty. About 30 to 35 percent of people are still living under the poverty line. No concern was shown for the upliftment of these downtrodden masses. Sir, the people of this country as a whole and the Malayalees of Kerala are now living under the threat of a possible war between America and Iraq. In such an eventuality the Malayalees will be the most adversely affected group. The war will leave its worst imprints in the lives of lakhs of Malayalees working in the Gulf countries and Middle East. In the past when America attacked Kuwait, thousands of Keralites had to flee back to their homeland leaving back whatever they had saved till then. We might face a plight much more worse than what had happened then. So I would like to bring it to the notice of this house that the Malayalees of this country will be the most affected group in case of an attack on Iraq. Hence I urge upon the Government to ensure the security of the people of this country. Sir, the speech had references to the achievements in the agricultural sector. But this country owes to the Indian National Congress for whatever that we have achieved in agricultural sector. It is a well-known fact. The development and growth in this area is a part of the balance sheet of the 45 years of rule of __________________________________________________________________*English Translation of the speech originally delivered in Malayalam. Congress. Even when we claim to have overflowing godowns, the number of poverty deaths is on the rise. I don’t want to go into the details, because I would like to confine myself to the issues regarding the State of Kerala. The State of Kerala has always been treated with neglect. The fact still remains that we were never given or rather blessed with any major Central Government project. In comparison with other States our share in Central allocations is a meager one. In the recent visit by our Prime Minister to Kumarakon and Kochi, promises of projects amounting to crores of rupees were made. These assurances were regarding the Vallarpadan Container Terminal, Coconut Mission Technology, more flight services from abroad to Kerala, tackling the issues of Gulf Malayalees, developmental projects for Cochin Refineries and the like. I would like to urge upon the Central Government to fulfill the promises made on a time bound manner. Sir, when Central assistance was extended to almost all the States of this country on grounds of flood and drought, the State of Kerala was ignored. It is so disheartening that when the people of my State had suffered the pangs of drought and the miseries of a flood, not even a penny had been given to them despite the repeated requests from the State Government authorities. The Central Government nurtures a negative approach to the problems of the State. When it comes to the Centrally sponsored projects like ‘Swajaladhara’ programme, and the announcement of support price to the agricultural products the State suffered neglect. Sir, we have evolved the best of the cooperative systems in Kerala and now the Centre is at destroying the system prevailing there by asking for the balance sheets and Central auditing of the accounts of these cooperative societies. With regard to the development of the road transport system, Kerala is the only State that has not been accorded any benefit of the golden quadrilateral project. Even under the Prime Minister’s ‘Gramin Sadak Yojana Programme’ my State was allocated a paltry sum that stands nowhere in comparison to the major shares pocketed by other States. Our Chief Minister Mr A.K. Antony had approached the PM and the Rural Development Minister, time and again, but to no avail. Sir, the Cochin Shipyard, a major profit making undertaking in the State is listed for disinvestment. Another prestigious public sector undertaking of my State ‘F.A.C.T.’ is also under the threat of being disinvested. The workers and the people of my State are protesting against this move and I urge upon the Central Government not to go ahead with their disinvestment plans. Sir, you may be pretty well aware of the exorbitant flight fares from Kerala to the Gulf countries. Indian Airlines and Air India are virtually looting the Gulf Malayalees. This unfair fare structure is denying them their annual visits to their homeland. Though we have made several pleas in this regard, the Civil Aviation Ministry had turned a deaf ear to us. The demand for a high court bench at Trivandrum has been a long pending one that has not yet reaped any result. The electricity shortage of the State is taking serious dimensions. The State is slowly being gripped by darkness, without sufficient power supply. As we are resorting to hydel power, the drought situation left the reservoirs devoid of water resulting in drastic fall in power generation. Hence the Central Government should intervene immediately to solve the power crisis in the State. I would also like to request that the Kelkar Commission Report intending to tax the deposits made by NRIs may be rejected. Sir, the agitation by the tribals of Kerala has become a major issue in the State. The left front members of this House from my State had raised that issue here yesterday. But their statements were really misleading. We were not present at that time. The Chief Minister has taken a very liberal attitude towards the 

problems of the adivasis of the State. Mr Antony was the only Chief Minister who had requested for the release of land in the Chief Ministers’ Conference so that the tribals can be given five acres of land each. It goes to his sole credit that he demanded an amendment to the Central Forest Conservation Bill, to the effect that the forest land could be released in favour of the tribals, the genuine owners of that land. He pressed for this in the Chief Ministers’ Conference. In Muthanga in Wynad, when the tribals encroached forest land, the Forest Minister Shri T.R. Balu asked the Chief Minister to evict them with immediate effect. At the same time the Tribal Development Minister Mr Jual Oram wrote to Mr Antony that they may be allowed to stay. This shows the double standard of the Central Government. What will our Chief Minister do, Sir, at such a juncture. Let me tell you that he has adopted the most considerate, liberal attitude towards their problems. The available land was given to them. But the encroached land comes under the reserve forest that can never be given to them. Knowing the facts fully well, under the guidance of some extremists groups the tribals have encroached the forest and started constructing their huts there. The situation was very grave and volatile. Yet the Chief Minister was resorting to a mild and liberal attitude towards them. But the left MPs tried to mislead this House. The Marxist Government could never ever get even a piece of land to any tribal during their 5 years of rule. There was no move to give land to them. When the UDF Government came to power, when Mr Nayanar was thrown out of power, suddenly the pleas and demands for giving land to tribals assumes the dimension of a struggle and this brings out the double standard of the Marxist Party in the State. It was very unfortunate that the left MPs tried to mislead this House in this regard. श्री मोहन रावले : अभी कहा गया था कि खाने का इंतजाम होगा। दूर-दूर जाने वाले लोग यहां बैठे हैं। उनके लिए खाने-पीने और ट्रांसपोर्ट की व्यवस्था होनी चाहिए। हमारी महिला मंत्री यहां बैठी हैं। कुंवर अखिलेश सिंह : उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, यह इनकी जिम्मेदारी बनती है कि कम से कम स्टाफ के लोगों के लिए खाने की व्यवस्था हो। श्रीमती भावनाबेन देवराजभाई चीखलीया : उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, बीएसी की मीटिंग में यह तय हुआ था कि जब भी सदन देर तक चलेगा तो लोक सभा इसकी व्यवस्था करेगी। उपाध्यक्ष महोदय: मैंने पहले भी यहां कहा था और रूलिंग दी थी कि नौ बजे के बाद कभी भी सदन चलता है तो खाने का इंतजाम होना चाहिए और खास तौर पर सचिवालय के लोगों के लिए ट्रांसपोर्ट का इंतजाम तथा ओवर टाइम भी देना चाहिए। Please take note of it. It should be implemented. … (Interruptions) MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: Those things will not go on record. (Interruptions) * 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

* Not Recorded. श्री हरीभाऊ शंकर महाले ( मालेगांव ):मान्यवर, जनता दल के एक से दो मैम्बर हो गए लेकिन हमारी हालत फिर भी वैसी की वैसी है। आपने बोलने का समय दिया। इसके लिए धन्यवाद। उपाध्यक्ष महोदय: मैं आपको हमेशा बोलने का चांस देता हूं। जब आप अपनी पार्टी के अकेले मैम्बर थे उस समय भी हमेशा चांस देता था। दो मैम्बर होने के बाद ज्यादा चांस मिलता है। श्री हरीभाऊ शंकर महाले : मैं जनता दल सैक्युलर का आदमी हूं और आदिम जाति से हूं। भारत की असली संस्कृति का पालन हम लोगों ने किया। इस सरकार के बारे में मेरे पेट में दर्द नहीं है लेकिन जो असली बात है मैं उसे अवश्य बोलूंगा। यदि खराब बातें हैं तो दिल खोल कर उनके खिलाफ बोलूंगा। भगवान महावीर की भारत सरकार ने जयन्ती मनायी। ऐसा करके उसने बहुत अच्छा किया। महात्मा गांधी को संदेश भगवान महावीर से मिला और उन्होंने अहिंसा का पालन किया। भारत सरकार ने यह अच्छा किया। बाबा साहेब अम्बेडकर के दाहिने हाथ दत्ता जी गायकवाड़ के नाम से डाक टिकट निकालकर सरकार ने अच्छा काम किया। जय प्रकाश नारायण जन्म शताब्दी समारोह को महामहिम राष्ट्रपति जी ने अच्छी तरह से सम्मानित किया। महाराष्ट्र में संत तुका राम हुये, माननीय प्रधानमंत्री जी ने उनका सम्मान किया, इसके लिये मैं धन्यवाद देता हूं। कल लोक सभा में वीर सावरकर की प्रतिमा का अनावरण महामहिम राष्ट्रपति करने वाले हैं। लेकिन सरकार के ध्यान में यह बात नही आई कि कोल्हापुर के साहू जी महाराज ने आज से १०० साल पहले आदिम जातियो के लिये नौकरी में ५० प्रतिशत जगह रखी थीं। ऐसी आदिम जाति न केवल भारत में बल्कि सारे संसार में नहीं हुई लेकिन भारत सरकार के मन में यह बात नहीं आई कि उनका भी तैलचित्र यहां लगाना चाहिये, उन्हें भारत रत्न का खिताब दिया जाये या उनके नाम का पोस्टल टिकट निकाले। श्री मोहन रावले : उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, मैं इनकी बात का समर्थन करता हूं कि इनका एक पोस्टल टिकट होना चाहिये और एक तैल चित्र भी होना चाहिये। श्री हरीभाऊ शंकर महाले : खैरे साहब ने भी कहा था कि वे कभी मन्दिर नहीं गये, सामान्य आदमी के पास गये। इन्होंने राम मन्दिर कभी सुना नहीं। इसलिये इस बारे में भी मेरी विनती है। उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, आदिम जनजाति के लिये सरकार ने स्वतंत्र मंत्रालय खोला है लेकिन मैं उसके लिये यह भी कहूंगा कि यह पूतना मौसी की तरह है। देश में इनकी संख्या ७ प्रतिशत है लेकिन उनका बजट केम है। उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, आपको सावित्री-सत्यवान की कहानी याद होगी। जब यम सत्यवान को ले गया तो सावित्री ने ८ पुत्रों की इच्छा व्यक्त की जो पति के बिना नहीं हो सकती थी। इसलिये उसे वरदान दिया गया कि आठ पुत्रों के साथ सौभाग्यवती हो। उपाध्यक्ष महोदय : आप राष्ट्रपति जी के अभिभाषण पर दो-तीन शब्द कहिये। श्री हरीभाऊ शंकर महाले : माननीय. उपाध्यक्ष जी, महामहिम राष्ट्रपति जी ने शिक्षा के बारे में कहा है लेकिन यह सरकार सीधे हाथ से मुंह में घास नहीं डालती। ऐसा आदेश दिया था कि पिछली जमातों को नौकरी वर्ग में बढ़ोतरी नहीं देंगे। हम लोगों ने उस पर झगड़ा किया, इसमें उन्होंने रूल कर दिया और लोक सभा में प्रस्ताव आया और उन्होंने बड़े दिल से वह काम किया। इसलिए अभी काम शुरू हो गया। ऐसा ही पिछली जमातो की शिक्षा, तकनीकी शिक्षण और वैधकीय शिक्षण के बारे में कोर्ट की मनाही है। जो जनरल सीटें हैं, उनके बराबर इन्हें पैसा देना चाहिए, उनके बराबर इन्हें अंक चाहिए, ऐसा कोर्ट का आदेश है। मेरी प्रार्थना है कि यहां कानून लाना चाहिए और जो-जो कोर्ट ने आदेश दिये हैं, उन्हें पूरा करना चाहिए। अब मैं बिजली के बारे में बोलना चाहता हूं। जिस वक्त १३ दिन की श्री वाजपेयी जी की सरकार थी, तब चाय पीने में जितना समय लगता है, उतने वक्त में एनरॉन कंपनी को लोक सभा और राष्ट्रपति भवन को सरकार ने गिरवी रख दिया। अभी झगड़ा चालू है। यह कैसी सरकार है। चाय पीने के बराबर वक्त में इतना बड़ा काम कर दिया। यह कितनी खराब बात है। किसानों के बारे में भी यही हालत है। …( व्यवधान)कल यहां बहुत बड़ा मोर्चा आने वाला है। उसमें कामगार, मजदूर, श्रमिक आदि लोग आने वाले हैं। यह मोर्चा निजीकरण का विरोध करने के लिए होने वाला है। उपाध्यक्ष महोदय : अब आप समाप्त कीजिए, आपको क्या हो गया है। कुछ भी रिकार्ड पर नहीं जायेगा। श्री हरीभाऊ शंकर महाले : पहले सरकार ने बोला था कि हम एक करोड़ नौकरियां देने वाले हैं। मुझे मालूम नहीं, हमारे लोगों को तो नहीं मिली, लेकिन सत्ताधारी पक्ष के लोगों के बाल-बच्चों को मिलेंगी। यह क्या है, इनकी कथनी और करनी में बहुत अंतर हैं। इसलिए मैं इसका कड़ा विरोध करता हूं और अपना वक्तव्य समाप्त करता हूं। SHRI K.P. SINGH DEO : Mr. Deputy-Speaker, Sir, with your permission, this is the year of the Centenary of Shri Jaipal Singh, the person who captained India in 1924 and got the first Gold Medal in the Olympics. Now, the hon. Ministers are present. Through you, may I request them to kindly consider celebrating his Centenary? He is a man who got us the Gold Medal in Hockey in 1924. श्री रवि प्रकाश वर्मा ( खीरी ) : उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, महामहिम राष्ट्रपति जी के अभिभाषण पर आपने श्री वी.के.मल्होत्रा जी के प्रस्ताव पर मुझे बोलने का मौका दिया, इसके लिए मैं आपका आभारी हूं। मैं इस सरकार के नीतिपत्र पर दो बिन्दुओं पर अपनी बात सीमित करना चाहता हूं। दसवीं पंचवर्षीय योजना में कहा गया है, जिसमें आठ प्रतिशत जी.डी.पी. ग्रोथ का लक्ष्य तय करने की बात हुई थी। अभी कुछ दिन पहले मैंने अखबार में पढ़ा था, यह डिजास्टर है, यह न्यूज नहीं, बहुत खराब न्यूज है। हिंदुस्तान के अखबार लिख रहे हैं कि आर्थिक विकास की दर ४.४ प्रतिशत रहने की संभावना है। कहां इसका लक्ष्य आठ परसेन्ट तय किया गया था। लेकिन रिजल्ट चार परसेन्ट है। कुछ दिन पहले मैकेन्जी एंड कंपनी के एडवाइजर हिंदुस्तान आये थे। वह भारत सरकार को बताकर गये हैं कि हिंदुस्तान की आबादी सौ करोड़ हो चुकी है। इस हिसाब से एक समय सीमा के भीतर यदि जी.डी.पी. ग्रोथ रेट १० परसेन्ट नहीं पहुंचाया गया तो हिंदुस्तान टूटकर बिखर जायेगा। उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, यह नीतिपत्र हमारे सामने रखा गया है और हमें सपने दिखाये गये हैं। लेकिन सच्चाई क्या है, वह मैं बताना चाहता हूं। मेरे संसदीय क्षेत्र, मेरे जनपद में यह हालत है कि पर कैपिटा इनवैस्टमैन्ट भी पूरे नहीं हो पा रहे हैं। ३६ करोड़ रुपये की योजना पिछले कई सालों से बनती आ रही है। कई साल से यह हालत हो रही है कि सात-आठ करोड़ रुपये का इनवैस्टमैन्ट हो पा रहा है। अगर सरकार पर कैपिटा इनवैस्टमैन्ट ही पूरे नहीं कर पायेगी तो पर कैपिटा अर्निंग कहां से बढ़ा देगी। मैंने कुछ दिन पहले संसद में कहा था कि जिस रफ्तार से हम आर्थिक सुधारों की ओर जा रहे हैं, क्या हमने कभी प्रशासनिक और न्यायिक सुधारों के बारे में सोचा है। आज हालत यह है कि जिन महान लोगों की तस्वीरें संसद में लगी हुई है, ये वे लोग हैं जिन्होंने इस मुल्क को आजाद कराया, क्या उनसे कोई गलती हुई थी। जिस रास्ते पर वे मुल्क को लेकर जा रहे थे, आज वह रास्ता पलट गया है। समस्या यह है कि हिन्दुस्तान का वर्किंग एजेन्डा बदल गया है। हमने समाजवाद से शुरूआत की। याद कीजिए, १९२६ में जवाहरलाल नेहरू जी ने ऐलान किया था रावी के किनारे से कि जब हिन्दुस्तान आज़ाद होगा तो समाजवाद को लक्ष्य बनाएंगे। हिन्दुस्तान में तूफान आ गया था, हिन्दुस्तान का हर आदमी घर से बाहर आ गया था और यह मुल्क आज़ाद हो गया था। वह नीतियां बनाई गईं, उन रास्तों पर हमारा मुल्क चला है कि समाजवाद की स्थापना हुई, लेकिन आज वर्किंग एजेन्डा बदल गया है। आज वर्किंग एजेन्डा केवल आतंकवाद है, फिरकापरस्ती है और यह सुबूत है इस बात का कि जब से इस वर्किंग एजेन्डा पर यह सरकार चली है तब से हिन्दुस्तान के आर्थिक विकास की दर खतरनाक गति से गिरी है। कहां हम साढ़े सात और आठ परसेंट पर जा रहे थे और आज अखबार कहता है कि साढ़े चार प्रतिशत मिलना मुश्किल है। हम आपके माध्यम से इस सरकार से फिर कहना चाहते हैं कि एक बार फिर गौर करें। हम सपने देखने के आदी हो चुके हैं, क्या हम अपनी ज़मीन भी देखेंगे। आज हालत यह है कि हिन्दुस्तान प्रशासनिक विफलताओं की दासतान बन चुका है। इतना खून-खराबा हिन्दुस्तान में कराया गया है कि भाई को भाई से लड़ाया गया है। कोई भी इस बात को समझ सकता है कि जब घर के अंदर लड़ाई होती है तो वह घर टूट जाता है, उस घर की आमदनी टूट जाती है। आज हिन्दुस्तान की हालत यह है कि कश्मीर में आतंकवाद है, पंजाब में आतंकवाद है। आज उत्तर प्रदेश भी उसी रास्ते पर निकल रहा है। असम में भी आतंकवादी हैं, नागालैन्ड में भी आतंकवादी हैं, आंध्रा प्रदेश में भी आतंकवादी हैं, दक्षिण भारत में भी आतंकवादी हैं। कोई कौम और जाति ऐसी नहीं बची है जो आतंकवाद में यकीन नहीं रखती। आखिर ऐसा क्यों हुआ है? ऐसा इसलिए हुआ है कि हिन्दुस्तान के आर्थिक विकास की दर गिरी है और वह किसी हालत में उठ नहीं पा रही है। इस हालत में जबकि विदेशी सलाहकार बता गए हैं कि हिन्दुस्तान को अगर इसी रूप में कायम रहना है और सौ करोड़ की आबादी के साथ जो आर्थिक विकास की दर है, उसको दस सैकड़ा पहुंचाया जाना बहुत ही लाजमी है, हम उससे बच नहीं सकते। इन हालात में जब भाई को भाई से लड़ाया जा रहा है, हिन्दुस्तान में खून-खराबा फैलाया जा रहा है, कैसे हम उम्मीद करते हैं कि आर्थिक विकास की दर हम दस सैकड़ा पहुँचा पाएंगे? महोदय, वोहरा कमेटी की रिपोर्ट हमने पढ़ी है। उऩका साफ कहना है कि प्रशासनिक विफलताओं के कारण हिन्दुस्तान में अपराध इतना बढ़ चुका है और संगठित हो चुका है कि अब हिन्दुस्तान में इनवैस्टमेंट का मौका ही नहीं रह गया है। जो उम्मीद की जा रही थी कि विदेशी मुद्रा हिन्दुस्तान में आएगी, एफ.डी.आई. हिन्दुस्तान में आएगा, आज सच्चाई यह है कि वे आंकड़े कभी पूरे नहीं होंगे। उस कमी को पूरा करने के लिए वे उपक्रम बेचे जा रहे हैं जिन्होंने इस हिन्दुस्तान की शान बनाई थी। आज हिन्दुस्तान की अस्मिता के साथ सौदा किया जा रहा है। हिन्दुस्तान का वह आदमी जिसके लिए हिन्दुस्तान आज़ाद कराया गया था, वह गरीब आदमी, वह मजदूर आदमी यह सोचने के लिए विवश हो गया है कि आखिर हमारा रास्ता कौन सा है। आज हम दोराहे पर खड़े हैं। कई बार संसद में चर्चा हुई कि आखिर हम जा कहां रहे हैं। या तो वह रास्ता सही था जो हमारे पुरखों ने तय किया था या यह रास्ता सही है जो यह सरकार तय कर रही है। हम किस रास्ते पर जा रहे हैं, हमें कुछ पता नहीं है। महोदय, मैं केवल विज़न की बात कहना चाहता हूँ। इस नीति पत्र में एक बड़ी महत्वपूर्ण बात कही गई है कि सन् २०२० का एक विज़न होगा। उस मुल्क में जिसमें आज की तारीख में २५ साल से नीचे की आबादी ४२ प्रतिशत पहुँच चुकी है, सौ करोड़ की आबादी में ४२ प्रतिशत २५ साल से नीचे के नौजवान हैं। आने वाले दस वर्षों में यह आबादी ५२ फीसदी पहुंचने वाली है। इस हिन्दुस्तान में छ: करोड़ से ज्यादा बच्चे ऐसे हैं जिनको पढ़ाई मयस्सर नहीं है। एक प्रयास किया गया है कि संवैधानिक अधिकार पढ़ाई का दिया गया है। कैसे उसका अनुपालन होगा? क्या हम एक शिक्षा आयोग की स्थापना कर पाएंगे जो इस मौलिक अधिकार के रक्षा करने की गारंटी कर सके? या हम पंचायती संस्थाओं को इतना अख्तियार दे पाएंगे, उनको डायरेक्टली अकाउंटेबल कर पाएंगे कि एक निश्चित समय सीमा के भीतर जल्दी से जल्दी शिक्षा का अधिकार जो शिक्षा का अधिकार आज़ादी के ५६ वर्षों के बाद मिला है, उसको पूरे तौर पर हम अनुपालन करा पाएं। आज हालत बहुत संगीन है। मैं एक बात और कहना चाहता हूँ कि अब समय आ गया है कि संसद रिज़ाल्व करे कि जितनी भी चुनी हुई पंचायती संस्थाएं हैं, जितने भी चुने हुए जन प्रतनधि हैं, आज कम से कम शिक्षा के मामले पर सीधे तौर पर अकाउंटेबल बनाए जाएं। क्या हम यह संशोधन संसद के माध्यम से कर पाएंगे? सबसे बड़ी बात सामने यह आ रही है कि आज हमारे हिन्दुस्तान में ४७ प्रतिशत बच्चे जो जन्म लेते हैं, वे पैदाइश से ही कुपोषण के शिकार होते हैं। यह कहा गया है कि हमारे भंडार भरे हुए हैं लेकिन यह भी सही है कि इसी हिन्दुस्तान में भूख से मौतें हुई हैं। उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, हमारे देश की माता और बहनों के शरीर में खून नहीं है। ग्रामीण क्षेत्रों में महिलाओं की साक्षरता की दर १२-१३ प्रतिशत जा रही है। क्या इसी विजन को लेकर हम नया हिन्दुस्तान बनाने का स्वप्न देख रहे हैं। हम कौन सा सपना देख रहे हैं। आखिर हम किस दुनिया में जी रहे हैं। बहुत सपने हमने देखे हैं। बहुत सी कहानियां हमने पढ़ी हैं कि कभी कोई राजकुमार आएगा और वह सोती हुई दुनिया को जगा देगा। हर चीज जो सो रही है वह एकदम से खड़ी हो जाएगी और एक नई मंजिल पर पहुंच जाएगी। हम इस मुल्क को अंदर से कमजोर कर रहे हैं। भाई को भाई से लड़ा रहे हैं। हमारी अर्थव्यवस्था टूट रही है। महोदय, आज हालत यह है कि जो अंतर्राष्ट्रीय रेटिंग एजेंसीज हैं, उन्होंने हिन्दुस्तान की सावरेनटी की "बी" ग्रेड में रेटिंग की है। क्या हिन्दुस्तान की सावरेनटी "बी" ग्रेड में रेटिंग करने लायक है। किसने बना दिया इसको ऐसा और दूसरी तरफ हम यह सपना देख रहे हैं कि सन् २०२० में हमें एक ऐसा मुल्क बनाना है जो बहुत ताकतवर मुल्क होगा। अभी हमारे पूर्ववक्ता कह रहे थे कि ताकत आखिरी चीज है। पूरी दुनिया कहती थी कि हिन्दुस्तान एक सोया हुआ देश है। जिस दिन जागेगा उस दिन पूरी धरती के लिए चुनौती बन जाएगा, लेकिन कहां चली गई वह चुनौती?आज भाई, भाई के खून का प्यासा हो गया है। हमने हिन्दू-मुसलमान नहीं बनाए। हमने सिर्फ उनको छोटा बनाया है। आजादी की लड़ाई ने हिन्दुस्तान के आदमी को एक बड़ा आदमी बना दिया था। हर आदमी जो गांव में रहता था, उसने इंसाफ को समाज का केन्द्र बिन्दु मान लिया था। एक दूसरे पर यकीन करना सीख लिया था। आज हमारे भाइयों ने, इन लोगों ने हमें पक्षपाती बनाया है, हमारा दिल छोटा कर दिया है और कहते हैं कि हम हिन्दू बनाएंगे। कहां से हिन्दू बनाएंगे। हिन्दू आप नहीं बनाते। हिन्दू तो बहुत पहले शंकराचार्य ने बना दिए थे। आपने खाली इंसान को छोटा इंसान बनाया है। उसकी महानता उससे छीन ली है। आप हिन्दुस्तान में भाई को भाई से लड़ाना चाहते हैं ? उपाध्यक्ष महोदय : कृपया समाप्त करिए। श्री रवि प्रकाश वर्मा : महोदय, उसके बाद में, आप २०२० का सपना दिखा रहे हैं। सपने का आधार क्या है। न आपके पास बिजली है, न आपके पास शिक्षा है, कितनी बेरोजगारी है, कितना बड़ा बुनियादी ढांचा है आपके पास, संकल्प भी तो आपके पास नहीं हैं। आपके पास खाली सपने हैं, वायदे हैं जिन्हें आप बार-बार दिखाते हैं। कितना दुख होगा कि हिन्दुस्तान के इस महान् राष्ट्र में एक नेता पैदा हुआ और वह खून खराबा कर के पैदा हुआ। इस राष्ट्र में वे नेता पैदा हुए हैं जिन्होंने सर्वस्व बलिदान किया था। महोदय, अभी गुजरात के एपीसोड में हमने देखा कि हिन्दुस्तान में एक लीडर पैदा किया गया और वह लीडर कैसे पैदा किया गया कि बहुत खून-खराबा कराया गया और यह कहा गया कि यह सांस्कृतिक राष्ट्रवाद है। इस धरती पर, इस मुल्क में जहां पर हम आध्यात्मिक और सांस्कृतिक एकात्मवाद पढ़ते रहे हैं वहां आज हमको सांस्कृति राष्ट्रवाद पढ़ाया जा रहा है। आखिर यह कौन सी नई परिभाषा है। इस सिस्टम के माध्यम से आप क्या सपना देखते हैं। महोदय, मैं अपना एक जाती उदाहरण बताना चाहता हूं। १९७७ की बात है, जब मैं पढ़ रहा था। एक दिन मुझे यह पता लगा था कि एक रशियन कांसुलेटर को दिल्ली में गोली से उड़ा दिया गया। इस खबर में मुझे इंटरैस्ट हुआ और मैंने पता किया कि क्या बात हुई, क्यों उन्हें गोली से उड़ा दिया गया। मुझे यह पता लगा था कि के. जी. बी. तत्कालीन प्रधान मंत्री, माननीय इंदिरा गांधी जी को यह सूचना दी थी कि अमेरिकन एम्बैसी के अंदर जो उनकी डिप्लोमेटिक अटैची थी उसने हिन्दुस्तान को टुकड़ों-टुकड़ों में बांटने का प्लान बनाया था। बैल्केनाइजेशन इन इंडिया। भारत सरकार पता नहीं लगा पाई थी। के. जी. बी. ने वह प्लान गवर्नमेंट आफ इंडिया को बताया था। उसके एवज में उस डिप्लोमैटिक अटैची को हिन्दुस्तान से बाहर निकाल दिया गया था और उसके एवज में अमेरीकन एजेंसी ने के. जी. बी. के उस कांसुलेटर का कत्ल करा दिया था। महोदय, मेरे पास जो डाटा है, मैं उन्हें आपके साथ शेयर करना चाहता हूं। इस सब-कांटीनेंट में इंदिरा गांधी की हत्या हुई, राजीव गांधी जी की हत्या हुई, जियाउल हक की हत्या हुई और जयवर्धने, जो श्रीलंका के राष्ट्रपति थे, उनकी हत्या हुई। यह क्या वचित्र संयोग है कि इन चारों कत्लों के बाद में अमेरिका में चुनाव थे। आखिर ऐसा क्यों हुआ ?वह सब दक्षिणपूर्वी एशिया, जो हिन्द महासागर के आसापस बसा है जिसके लिए एक बार पूरी धरती पर तनाव रह चुका है, जहां पर कि धरती की आधी आबादी बसती है, आखिर उसमें ऐसी कौन सी बात है कि उस क्षेत्र को जानबूझकर लीडर-विहीन किया गया है। किन लोगों ने ऐसा किया है, क्या हमारी निगाहें उन्हें देख नहीं सकतीं। आज हमें उसे देखना पड़ेगा कि आखिर वे कौन लोग हैं जिन्होंने इस पूरे क्षेत्र के अंदर एक पौलीटिकल वैक्यूम पैदा किया है और क्यों पैदा किया है। महोदय, हमारे सामने एक डाक्यूमेंट रखा है, जिसे हम बड़ी गहराई से देख रहे हैं। मुझे एक बात और कहनी है कि इस हिन्द महासागर के क्षेत्र में, …( व्यवधान) उपाध्यक्ष महोदय : कृपया अब समाप्त कीजिए। श्री रवि प्रकाश वर्मा : सर, मैं एक मिनट में समाप्त कर रहा हूं। इस क्षेत्र में दुनिया की आधी आबादी रहती है। यह एक बहुत बड़ा क्षेत्र है। अब भूमंडलीकरण हो रहा है। क्या हम और हमारा नेतृत्व अपनी पूरी संकल्प शक्ति के साथ इस बाजार को, इस व्यापक बाजार को एक एक्टिव मार्केट के रूप में आर्गेनाइज कर पाएगें, क्या हमारे पास ऐसी ताकत है ? यहां पर है विजन, अगर आप देखना चाहते हैं। आज अमरीका पर्सनल ट्रेड जोन बना रहा है, वह पूरी धरती पर ४२ उपनिवेश खड़े करना चाहता है और आज हम उसके शिकार हो रहे हैं। आज हम उसका शिकार हो रहे हैं। क्या हम उसका शिकार होने से बच पाएंगे, हमारे अंदर संकल्प शक्ति है? महोदय, मैंने एक अखबार में पढ़ा था कि भारत सरकार के एक अधिकारी ने प्रधानमंत्री कार्यालय के ऊपर आरोप लगाया कि प्रधानमंत्री कार्यालय केबिनेट की भूमिका और उसके दायित्वों का सम्मान नहीं करता। केबिनेट के फैसले हुए हैं। वांशिगटन से फोन आया है और केबिनेट के फैसले बदले गए हैं।…( व्यवधान)क्या इसी ताकत को लेकर हम २०२० तक सब ठीक कर पाएंगे।…( व्यवधान) सामाजिक न्याय और अधिकारिता मंत्री (डॉ. सत्यनारायण जटिया) : यह बात गलत है। कुंवर अखिलेश सिंह : यह बात सच है, आप सुनिए।…( व्यवधान)आपके अटल जी नतमस्तक हो गए हैं।…( व्यवधान)आपको घबराहट हो रही है।…( व्यवधान) MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: Please resume your seat. … (Interruptions)MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: It is enough now. Nothing will go on record. (Interruptions)* 

श्री रवि प्रकाश वर्मा :महोदय, मैं इस प्रस्ताव का समर्थन न करने के लिए बाध्य हूं। इन्हीं शब्दों के साथ मैं आपका आदेश मानते हुए अपनी बात समाप्त करता हूं। धन्यवाद।…( व्यवधान) श्रीमती भावनाबेन देवराजभाई चीखलीया :उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, वर्मा जी ने जो बताया, प्रधानमंत्री मंत्रालय की जो बात हुई है, वह बिलकुल गलत और बेबुनियाद है। ऐसी कोई बात वहां नहीं हुई है, इसलिए मैं इसे रिकार्ड पर लाना चाहती हूं।…( व्यव धान) कुंवर अखिलेश सिंह ) : वर्मा जी ने जो आरोप लगाए हैं,…( व्यवधान) MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: Nothing will go on record except the speech of Shri Ramdas Athawale. (Interruptions) * 

MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: Shri Kharabela Swain, now this is the last speech. Why do you not hear him? * Not Recorded. श्री रामदास आठवले ( पंढरपुर ) : उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, राष्ट्रपति जी के अभिभाषण पर कल से इस हाउस में चर्चा हो रही है। यह जो अभिभाषण १७ फरवरी को हुआ, मेरा सुझाव है कि राष्ट्रपति जी का अभिभाषण आधे घंटे का होना चाहिए। इस सरकार के अभी पौने दो साल रहते हैं, उसके बाद यह सरकार नहीं रहने वाली है। एक ही भाषण में पूरे पांच सालों का सब कुछ बताना ठीक नहीं है। मैं उस दिन बीच में उठ कर बोलने वाला था कि यह इतना बड़ा भाषण है। हमारे उपराष्ट्रपति जी की तबीयत ठीक नहीं है और इस तरह इसका हिन्दी ट्रांसलेशन करना ठीक नहीं है। उस दिन मैं सोच रहा था कि अगर इतना बड़ा भाषण बना कर सरकार देगी तो कोई व्यक्ति राष्ट्रपति और उपराष्ट्रपति बनने के लिए तैयार नहीं होगा। महोदय, हमारा सुझाव है कि राष्ट्रपति जी साऊथ इंडिया के हों या किसी भी स्टेट के हों, उन्हें अपनी भाषा में बोलना चाहिए। हम जब बाहर जाते हैं तो देखते हैं कि वे लोग भी अपनी भाषा में बोलते हैं। मैं हरेक की भावनाओं को समझता हूं, लेकिन उसका ट्रांसलेशन करने की जरूरत नहीं है। अगर राष्ट्रपति जी अंग्रेजी में पढ़ते हैं तो बाद में हिन्दी ट्रांसलेशन की आवश्यकता नहीं होनी चाहिए। राष्ट्रपति जी को यह बताना चाहिए कि अगर आपको राष्ट्रपति बनना है तो देश की जो राष्ट्रभाषा है, वह पूरी तरह बोलनी न आए लेकिन पढ़नी तो आनी चाहिए। इसलिए मेरा सरकार से निवेदन है कि भाषण कम से कम हो। इतनी रात हो गई है, मैं कह रहा था कि मेरा भाषण कल रिप्लाई के पहले रखें, लेकिन आपने कहा कि आज ही आप बोलिए। मैं आपको एक कविता सुनाता हूं - आप यहां के हिन्दू समाज को एवाइड नहीं कर सकते, यहां सबसे ज्यादा हिन्दू समाज है। मैं भी हिन्दू था लेकिन बाबा साहेब अम्बेडकर के नेतृत्व में हम सब लोग बुद्धिस्ट बने। यहां के सभी मुसलमान हिन्दू थे, सिख हिन्दू थे और सभी लिंगयायी जैन हिन्दू थे। जिन लोगों ने हिन्दू धर्म को छोड़ दिया, ऐसे लोगों के बारे में आपको गंभीरता से सोचना चाहिए कि उन्होंने क्यों हिन्दू धर्म को छोड़ दिया?अगर आप सबको आपस में लड़ाते रहेंगे और मुसलमान को कहेंगे कि तुम इधर मत रहो तो यह ठीक नहीं होगा। यदि आप मुसलमानों को बोलेंगे कि तुम इधर मत रहो तो हम भी आपको कहेंगे कि तुम भी इधर मत रहो। जब वे नहीं रहेंगे और हम भी नहीं रहेंगे तो फिर यह देश कैसे चलेगा?आपको इस पर गंभीरता से सोचना चाहिए कि यहां के मुसलमान हमारे भाई हैं और मुसलमानों को भी सोचना चाहिए कि हिन्दू हमारे भाई हैं। अब कल बहुत सारे साधु-संत अयोध्या का इश्यू लेकर दिल्ली आये थे। उनको भी डेमोक्रेसी में अपना आंदोलन करने का अधिकार है मगर आपस में झगड़ा कराने का अधिकार नहीं है। साधु-संत तो शांति निर्माण करने के लिए होते हैं। जो मन अलग-अलग हो रहे हैं, उनको नजदीक लाने का काम साधु-संतों का होता है। जो साधु-संत कल यहां आये थे, वे झगड़ा बढ़ाने वाले साधु-संत हैं इसलिए साधुओं को भी शिक्षा देने की आवश्यकता है। अगर आपको राम मंदिर बनाना है तो आप बनाइये और अयोध्या में ही बनाइये मगर उसी जगह राम मंदिर बनाने का आग्रह क्यों ? उनका कहना है कि वहां राम का जन्म हुआ था तो मैं आपसे पूछना चाहता हूं कि क्या वहां राम का जन्म हुआ था ? अगर राम के जन्म की कोई हिस्ट्री है और आपकी उसमें श्रद्धा है तो ठीक है। मैं कहना चाहता हूं कि हमारे नाम में तो राम है जबकि आपके नाम में राम नहीं है। जो ब्राहमण समाज के लोग आपको रामायण पढ़ाते हैं, उनके नाम में राम नहीं है। हमारे नाम में यह राम नाम क्यों है ? हम लोग पहले राम को मानने वाले लोग थे मगर आप लोगों ने हमको नहीं माना इसलिए हमने हिन्दू धर्म को छोड़ दिया लेकिन इसका मतलब यह नहीं है कि हम हिन्दू धर्म का विरोध करते हैं। अगर हमें इस देश को मजबूत करना है तो हिन्दू-मुसलमानों की जो दोस्ती है वह पक्की होनी चाहिए। इस दोस्ती को खत्म करने का प्रयत्न यदि आप लोग करते हैं तो मेरा आपसे निवेदन है कि आपके केवल पौने दो साल रह गये हैं। देश को बचाने के लिए आपको यहां से जाना पड़ेगा। शिव सेना के प्रमुख बाला साहेब ठाकुर ने भी एक प्रस्ताव दिया है कि जो डिस्प्यूटेड जगह है, वहां आप राष्ट्रीय स्मारक बनाइये। यदि मंदिर बनाना ही है तो अयोध्या में जो नॉन डिस्प्यूटेड जगह है वहां आप राम मंदिर बनाइये। इनका कहना है कि इस झगड़े को खत्म करने के लिए यह कोर्ट का आदेश मानेंगे लेकिन साधु-संत कहते हैं कि हम कोर्ट का आदेश नहीं मानेंगे, हम कानून को नहीं मानेंगे। अगर तुम कानून को नहीं मानोगे तो हम भी तुमको नहीं मानेंगे। यदि आपको देश में रहना है तो कानून को मानना पड़ेगा, देश के संविधान को मानना पड़ेगा। देश की सुरक्षा को तोड़ने का जो प्रयत्न करेगा, उनको ठीक करने का काम भी हम सबको करना होगा। हम साधुओं का आदर करते हैं मगर साधुओं को झगड़ा कराने का काम नहीं करना चाहिए। उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, जब भी संसद में हम सबको बीच झगड़ा होता है तो आप झगड़ा मिटाने का काम करते हैं। आप कभी झगड़ा बढ़ाने का काम नहीं करते। जिस तरह यह चेयर झगड़ा मिटाने का काम करती है उसी तरह साधु लोगों को झगड़ा मिटाने का काम करना चाहिए। इसलिए इस मसले पर हम सब लोगों को गंभीरता से सोचने की आवश्यकता है। यदि आप वहां राम मंदिर बनाते हैं तो बुद्ध मंदिर भी बनाइये, मस्जिद भी बनाइये। मेरा कहना है कि यदि हमें इस विवाद को खत्म करना है तो जो विवादित भूमि है, वहां मस्जिद भी बने तो अच्छी बात है। यदि हम पुराने इतिहास को देखें तो वैदिक धर्म के बाद अपने देश में सभी बुद्धिस्ट थे। आप भी बुद्धिस्ट थे और हम भी बुद्धिस्ट थे। उसके बाद यहां हिन्दू धर्म आया। आज जो हिन्दू धर्म है, वह सही हिन्दू धर्म नहीं है। आप लोग मनु-स्मृति के आधार पर हिन्दू धर्म की जो व्याख्या कर रहे हैं, आज वह हिन्दू धर्म नहीं है। …( व्यवधान)जन्म पर आधारित जाति व्यवस्था, वर्ण व्यवस्था मूल हिन्दू धर्म को मान्य नहीं है। इसलिए आज का हिन्दू धर्म सही हिन्दू धर्म नहीं है। …( व्यवधान) उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, क्या मैं अपना बाकी का भाषण कल करूं ? उपाध्यक्ष महोदय : आप अभी समाप्त करिये। ...( व्यवधान) श्री रामदास आठवले : मंत्री जी का रिप्लाई तो कल है इसलिए बाकी का भाषण मैं कल करूंगा।…( व्यवधान) उपाध्यक्ष महोदय : मंत्री जी का रिप्लाई कल नहीं परसों है इसलिए आप अपना भाषण आज ही समाप्त करिये। ...( व्यवधान) MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: You have to conclude today itself. I will give you some more time. श्री रामदास आठवले : आप चिट्ठी लेकर बैठे हैं। ऐसे मैं अपना भाषण कैसे कर सकता हूं। …( व्यवधान) उपाध्यक्ष महोदय : चिट्ठी तो मैंने ली हुई है लेकिन पहले आप अपना भाषण कन्कलूड कीजिए। आप एक-आध मिनट में अपना भाषण समाप्त करिये। श्री रामदास आठवले : अभी तो मेरा भाषण एक घंटा और पांच मिनट का बाकी है। मुझे और भी पाइंट्स कवर करने हैं। उपाध्यक्ष महोदय : आप दो-तीन मिनट में खत्म कीजिए। श्री रामदास आठवले : इसलिए अयोध्या के इश्यू की गम्भीरता समझकर, किसी को भी उल्टा-सीधा स्टेटमेंट नहीं करना चाहिए और इस मसले को शांति से और भारतीय संविधान तथा कानून के दायरे में हल करना चाहिए। आपकी भावना हम समझते हैं इसलिए आपको भी हमारी भावना समझनी चाहिए। अगर आप हमारी भावना नहीं समझेंगे तो हम भी आपकी नहीं समझेंगे। इसलिए इस विषय को हल करने की बहुत बड़ी आवश्यकता है। दसवीं पंचवर्षीय योजना के बारे में राष्ट्रपति जी ने अपने अभिभाषण में उल्लेख किया है। राष्ट्रीय सुरक्षा के बारे में भी उन्होंने अपने अभिभाषण में कहा है। पाकिस्तान के सम्बन्ध में हम सब लोगों को गम्भीरता से सोचना है। पाकिस्तान अधिकृत कश्मीर को वापस लेने की आवश्यकता है। पाकिस्तान ऐसे ही वह एरिया हमें नहीं देने वाला, उसके लिए युद्ध करने की आवश्यकता है। मैंने उस दिन भी प्रधान मंत्री जी को कहा था कि पाकिस्तान को सबक सिखाना चाहिए। जब पिछले वर्ष संसद पर हमला हुआ था तो उसके दूसरे ही दिन पाकिस्तान पर हमें हमला करना चाहिए था। वहां की जनता पर नहीं करना चाहिए। जैसे अमेरिका ने तालिबान शासन के खिलाफ, ओसामा बिन लादेन के अलकायदा के खिलाफ अफगानिस्तान में जंग छेड़ी थी और वहां की जनता को नुकसान नहीं पहुंचाया था, उसी तरह से हमें भी पाकिस्तान पर हमला करना चाहिए था। अगर मैं प्रधान मंत्री होता तो संसद पर हमले के एक घंटे के बाद ही पाकिस्तान पर हमला कर देता। सरकार को इसमें कोई दिक्कत नहीं है। अमेरिका हमारे साथ आ सकता है। अगर उसको भी आतंकवाद खत्म करना है, तो वह हमारे साथ आए। अगर उसको आतंकवाद दुनिया से खत्म नहीं करना है तो फिर न आए। वैसे भी अमेरिका की सेना इधर आकर क्या करेगी, पाकिस्तान पर तो हमें ही हमला करना होगा, हमें ही अपनी ताकत दिखानी होगी। अमेरिका यदि अफगानिस्तान पर या इराक पर हमला करे तो उसे भारत की आवश्यकता है। मैं पाकिस्तान के विषय पर पहले भी एक-दो बार बोल चुका हूं कि अगर पाकिस्तान को सबक सिखाना है तो उसके साथ युद्ध करना चाहिए। अगर आप युद्ध नहीं करते हैं तो उसके साथ दोस्ती करनी चाहिए। अभी कुआलालम्पुर में मुशर्रफ जी ने, जो कि काफी होशियार हैं, अटल जी के सामने आकर हाथ आगे किया तो अटल जी ने उधर देखना शुरू कर दिया और कहा कि मैं नहीं कर रहा हूं। इसलिए अगर दोस्ती करनी है तो पाकिस्तान के साथ, अफगानिस्तान के साथ, बांग्लादेश के साथ और अपने दूसरे पड़ौसी देशों के साथ हमारी दोस्ती होनी चाहिए। इसके अलावा इंडोनेशिया और म्यांमार आदि के साथ भी हमें दोस्ती करनी चाहिए। अगर भारत को महाभारत बनाना है तो इन सारे देशों को एक साथ लाना होगा। बांग्लादेश में हमारे काफी लोग रहते हैं। उनको भी साथ लाना होगा। उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, मैं इनसे कहना चाहता हूं कि ये हमारे जाने का इंतजार कर रहे हैं तो हम भी इनके जाने का इंतजार कर रहे हैं। उपाध्यक्ष महोदय : अब आप समाप्त करें। राष्ट्रपति जी के अभिभाषण पर आपने काफी बोल लिया है। आप उसका समर्थन करते हैं। श्री रामदास आठवले : अगर आप कहें तो मैं अपना भाषण कल भी जारी रख सकता हूं। उपाध्यक्ष महोदय : नहीं, आपको अभी खत्म करना है। श्री रामदास आठवले : राष्ट्रपति जी का अभिभाषण एक घंटा और दस मिनट का है, तो इतनी जल्दी मैं कैसे खत्म कर सकता हूं। अभी रात के ११ बज रहे हैं, सबको जाना है इसलिए मैं पांच मिनट और लूंगा। उपाध्यक्ष महोदय : नहीं। आपको अब भाषण समाप्त करना है। श्री रामदास आठवले : इतनी जल्दी खत्म कैसे हो सकता है? माननीय राष्ट्रपति जी का भाषण एक घंटा दस मिनट का, तो मेरा भाषण इतनी जल्दी कैसे खत्म हो सकता है। इसलिए मेरा निवेदन यह है कि अभी ११ बजे हैं और सभी को जाना भी है। उपाध्यक्ष महोदय : इस मोशन पर डिस्कशन समाप्त हो रहा है। अब सिर्फ रिप्लाई होगा। डिबेट अब समाप्त होगी। श्री रामदास आठवले : लेकिन मेरे भाषण के बिना कैसे खत्म होगी? कल मैं पांच मिनट फिर बोलूंगा। उपाध्यक्ष महोदय : कल की मैं गारंटी नहीं दे सकता हूं। श्री खारबेल स्वाइं : यहां किसी का मान नहीं है। जितनी छोटा पार्टी है उसका मैम्बर उतना ज्यादा बोलेगा। इधर बड़ा पार्टी वाला नहीं बोल पायेगा। कुंवर अखिलेश सिंह : आप कोरम तो पूरा नहीं कर पा रहे हो, बेकार की बातें करते हो। अपना कर्तव्य नहीं निभा पा रहे हो। …( व्यवधान)आप क्या डैमोक्रेसी का पाठ पढ़ाएंगे। श्री खारबेल स्वाइं : हां, पाठ पढ़ा रहा हूं। आप तो खा-पीकर आराम से आये हैं, हम तो सुबह से यहां सब्र से बैठे हैं।…( व्यवधान)आप यहां से कितने बजे गये थे।…( व्यवधान) कुंवर अखिलेश सिंह :मान्यवर, कोरम तो है नहीं। कोरम की आपकी जिम्मेदारी है, सरकार में आप बैठे हुए हैं।…( व्यवधान)कितने सब्र से बैठे हैं देखो।…( व्यवधान)इस तरह के बेतुके सवाल नहीं उठाने चाहिए।…( व्यवधान) MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER : Nothing will go on record. (Interruptions) * कुंवर अखिलेश सिंह :ये लोकतंत्र का पाठ पढ़ाएंगे हमें। MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER : This is very much unbecoming. … (Interruptions) MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER : What is this? … (Interruptions) MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER : Now, I have to take action against both of you. … (Interruptions) MR. DEPUTY SPEAKER : I will not appreciate this kind of behaviour. … (Interruptions) MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER : Shri Akhilesh Singh, I am on my legs. Will you please sit down? … (Interruptions) उपाध्यक्ष महोदय : आप क्या कर रहे हैं। I am on my legs. Will you please resume your seat? … (Interruptions) MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER : Both of you are senior members. Please resume your seats.श्री खारबेल स्वाइं : आपकी जिम्मेदारी बहुत है, सभी जानते हैं। कुंवर अखिलेश सिंह : कोरम पूरा करने की जिम्मेदारी सरकार की बनती है। आप कोरम तो पूरा कर नहीं सकते हैं। MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER : I will have to take action against both of you. … (Interruptions) * Not Recorded. MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER : Shri Ramdas Athawale, have you concluded your speech? … (Interruptions)श्री खारबेल स्वाइं: आप हमेशा ऐसा करते हैं। कुंवर अखिलेश सिंह : मान्यवर, कोरम नहीं है, मेरा व्यवस्था का प्रश्न है। मान्यवर, कोरम नहीं है। इसलिएआपसे विनम्रतापूर्वक आग्रह है कि गिनती करा लें। कोरम नहीं है। .......(व्यवधान)आपने मुझे प्रवोक किया है, आप गलत बयानी कर रहे हो।........(व्यवधान) कोरम-डिकोरम दोनों नहीं हैं। MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER : Let the quorum bell be rung.-- … (Interruptions)MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: Since there is no quorum in the House, I adjourn the House till 1100 hours tomorrow. 23.08 hrs. 

The Lok Sabha then adjourned till Eleven of the Clock 

on Wednesday, February 26, 2003/Phalguna 7, 1924 (Saka). ---------