This writ petition is filed by the petitioner-accused

No.9 through his Attorney Holder under Article 226 of

the Constitution of India read with Section 482 of

Cr.P.C. (hereinafter referred to as ' Cr.P.C .') praying to

quash the order dated 01.10.2019 passed in Spl. CC

No.1088/2019 by the Principal City Civil and Sessions

Judge, (Special Judge for CBI Cases), Bengaluru. 2. Heard the learned Senior Counsel for the

petitioner and the learned Special Counsel for

respondent Nos.1 and 2. 3. Respondent No.2 the Assistant Director of the

Directorate of Enforcement (hereinafter referred to as

'ED') filed a complaint against the petitioner and others

before the Special Court for the offences punishable

under Sections 44 and 45 read with Sections 3 , 70 , 4 ,

and 8(5) of Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002

(hereinafter referred to as ' PML Act ') for punishing the

accused persons of the offences punishable under Sections 3 and 4 of the PML Act. It is alleged by the

complainant in his complaint that an FIR in Crime

No.73/2019 was registered by the Commercial Street

Police, Bengaluru on 09.06.2019 against M/s. IMA

Company Ltd., I Monetary Advisory Private Ltd.

(hereinafter referred to as 'M/s. IMA') and also against

Mohammed Mansoor Khan, the Managing Director of

M/s. IMA for the offences punishable under Sections 406 and 420 of IPC. It is alleged that the Managing Director

of M/s. IMA and other Directors of the company started

Ponzy Scheme in the name and style of various entities

and received huge amount of money from general

public with a promise of high returns on their 4 investments and diverted the fund and cheated more

than 30,000 middle class people and lower middle class

people. It is further alleged that the accused entities

and directors are indulged in the offences of money

laundering by cheating the general public and through

Ponzy Scheme, generated proceeds of crime in the form

of movable and immovable properties and the offence

under Section 420 is a scheduled offence under the

provisions of the PML Act . It is further alleged that on

the statement of co-accused recorded by the police,

accused No.1 and its associates were charged with Section 420 of IPC, which is a scheduled offence under

the PML Act . Respondent No.1 Deputy Director of ED

had conducted investigation and had issued provisional

attachment order on 27.06.2019 in

ECIR/BGZO/03/2019 and sought confiscation of those

properties which were already challenged before the

appellate Tribunal. The appellate Tribunal is said to be

allowed the prayer of the petitioner and released some

of the properties by furnishing some surety. 5 4. The petitioner has challenged the very

authority of respondent No.2 by filing the complaint

against him before the Court by raising the questions of

law, which are as under: The petitioner submits that this
 Petition raises the following questions of
 law: 5. It is contended that the aforesaid questions of

law go to the very root of exercise of power of

respondent No.1- Deputy Director of ED for initiation of

proceedings under the PML Act . 6. The petitioner has also raised the following

issues by challenging the authority of respondent No.1

Deputy Director of ED which is as under: and the posting order posting the Deputy
 Director on deputation basis in Enforcement
 Directorate issued by the Director of
 Enforcement, for purposes of Prevention of
 Money Laundering Act 2002, and the legality
 thereof. appointing such officers as Deputy Director on
 deputation basis can be considered or assumed
 to be authorization as "Authority" under Prevention of Money Laundering Act 2002 (15 of
 2003). 7. The learned Senior Counsel appearing for the

petitioner would contend that respondent No.2, who is a

Superintendent of Police working in Lokayukta, has 8 been deputed to work as an Assistant Director of ED

and he is not at all eligible as he is a State Police Officer

and respondent No.1 is a Deputy Director of ED. Both

these officers have no authority under the PML Act to

proceed against the petitioner and they have not been

authorized to conduct investigation as per the definition

under Section 2(na) of PML Act. There is no specific

authorisation given to respondent No.2, who is a Group-

B officer, authorizing him to investigate into the matter.

There is no separate authorisation or any notification

issued under the PML Act for conducting investigation.

The questions raised by the petitioner in the petition

para Nos.7 and 8 has not been answered. The

respondent have no authority of law and there is wrong

exercise of power and the act done is not in accordance

with law. Therefore, the very complaint is not

sustainable and nullity in the eye of law. The learned

Senior Counsel further submitted that respondent Nos.1

and 2 are the deputed officers. There is no separate

authorization issued as per Section 51 of the PML Act

and the police cannot investigate the matter as provided 9 under Section 45(1A) of the PML Act. The appointment

order of respondent No.2-Assistant Director of ED under

Order No.144/2017 is contrary to Section 45(1A) of the

PML Act and even the exercise of power also runs

contrary to Section 2(na) of the PML Act. The learned

Senior Counsel further contended that the authorization

of officials is different from the appointment of officials.

The language used in the Government Order cannot go

against the provisions of the PML Act . He has no

authority for filing the complaint and also to investigate

into the matter and therefore, the respondent could not

have sought for confiscation of the properties and

hence, prayed for quashing of the complaint. In support of his arguments, the learned Senior

counsel has relied upon the judgment of the Hon'ble

Supreme Court reported in the case of M/S. CANON

INDIA PRIVATE LIMITED VS. COMMISSIONER OF

CUSTOMS reported in 2021 SCC ONLINE SC 200. 8. The respondents have appeared through the

learned Special Counsel and filed statement of 10 objections. The sum and substance of the statement of

objections is that the Deputy Director has been

appointed in accordance with Sections 48 , 49 and 51 of

the PML Act and once he has been appointed as Deputy

Director under the PML Act , he shall exercise the powers

conferred under the provisions of Section 51 of the Act.

Once the Central Government has authorized the

authorities under the Act and has made any

appointment by way of deputation, there is no

requirement of any separate authorization for carrying

out the functions. The Deputy Director Sri

Parashivamurthy has been duly appointed and

authorized as per Order No.101/2018 dated

22.06.2018. Therefore, the contention of the petitioner

cannot be acceptable. The learned Special Counsel has also contended

that the authorities under the Act appointing the

respondent Assistant Director was in accordance with

the Government Order. Once he has appointed and

deputed to work in ED, the officer gets all the authority

for investigating into the matter. The contention of the 11 petitioner's counsel that Grade-B officer cannot be

appointed to a Grade-A rank for carrying out of the

functions, is not correct as the PML Act does not make

any distinction of Grade-A and Grade-B officers for the

purpose of appointment. The PML Act enumerates only

the class of officers to be appointed as authorities and

once the officer is duly appointed as authority under the PML Act , the officer is empowered to exercise the

functions in terms of Section 51 of the PML Act. The

learned Senior Counsel also contended that he is

denying all the averments made by the petitioner in the

petition and also parawise allegations made in the

petition and accordingly, prayed for dismissing the

petition. In support of his arguments, the learned counsel

for respondent relied upon the following judgments: 13. On bare reading of Sub-section (2) to the

2nd proviso to the section 45 (1) of PML Act empowers

any officer of the Central Government or a State

Government authorize in writing in this behalf by a

Central Government by a general or special order made

in this behalf by that Government. The amendment to

provision 45 i.e., 45 (1-A) provides that no police

officers shall investigate into an offence under this Act

unless specifically authorized by Central Government by

a general or special order and subject to such conditions

as may be prescribed. 14. On perusal of the same in my opinion, the

complaint in this case has been filed by respondent 2

who is the Assistant Director, working in Enforcement

Directorate, (ED) filed the complaint by exercising the

power under the PML Act . The learned Senior counsel

for the petitioner has strenuously contended the Asst.

Director post was filled up by deputation from the police

department and he is B group officer and he cannot be

posted to Group A cadre but the respondent counsel

submits there is no such eligibility criteria prescribed for 15 the posting and the Central Government issued a

notification posting the officers by exercising the power

under Section 49 of PML Act for convenience it is

necessary to refer the Sections 48 and 49 of the Act as

under: 15. The counsel for the respondent produced

the notifications issued by the Central Government for

the officers were being deputed to work in ED and

exercise the power under the PML Act . 16. The counsel for the respondent also

produced appointment order notification dated

1.7.2005 issued by the Government of India, Ministry of

Finance, Department of Revenue in the Gazette which is

as under:- 17. The another general order dated 11.11.2014

which is read as under:- 18. On reading of the above said notifications,

admittedly the officers working under ED are deputation

posts borrowing the officers from other office of the

Central Government including the police officials from

the State Government. The notification dated

11.11.2014 the Government of India authorizes the

officers not below the rank of Assistant Directors in the

ED are empowered under Section 45 of the PML Act to

file the complaint before the special Court constituted 18 under Section 43 (1) of the PML Act for the trial of

offence punishable under Section 4 of the PML Act. 19. The respondent counsel also produced the

administrative order of the ED issued by the Central

Government of India dated 18.8.2017 by order

(admission) No.144/2017, at Sl.No.14. Basavaraj R.

Magdum who is ranked Superintendent of Police worked

in Karnataka Lokayuktha has been selected and

appointed as Assistant Director of ED on the deputation

basis. The said notification of the Central Government

in respect of the deputation of Basavaraj as Assistant

Director on 18.8.2017. This notification was not

challenged by any person aggrieved before the court or

set aside by any court. Once a police officer of DSP

rank has been deputed to work as Assistant Director in

ED, and the said officer become an authorized officer

under Section 45 (1A) of the PML Act and once he has

taken charges as Asst. Director of ED he can exercise

the power to investigate the matter as provided under Section 2(na) of the PML Act. 20. On bare reading of Section 48 , it refers the

classes of authorities for the purpose of PML Act as

Director or Additional Director or Joint Director, Deputy

Director, Assistant Director and such other classes of

officers as may be appointed for the purpose of this Act.

Here in this case, Basavaraj Magdum was a Deputy

Superintendent of Police, Lokayukta and he has been

selected and appointed as Assistant Director by the

Central Government exercising the power under Section

49(1) of the PML Act. 21. As I have already stated above, the order of

appointment issued by the Central Government dated

01.07.2005 empowers the officers for appointment to

be worked as authorities under the ED. By an

appointment order dated 18.08.2017 Basavaraj

Magdum was selected and appointed on deputation

basis and posted to work as Assistant Director until

further orders with effect from 29.09.2017. This

administrative order (Admn. No.144/2017) clearly

reveals that, on 29.09.2017, the said officer Basavaraj 20 R. Magdum took charge as Assistant Director on

deputation basis. Therefore, once the officer is posted

as an Assistant Director, the Government by exercising

power under Section 49(1) of the PML Act, he becomes

the Assistant Director for the purpose of Section

48(1)(c) of the PML Act. 22. Sub-Section (2) of Section 49 of PML Act

defines that without prejudice to the provisions of sub-

section (1), the Central Government may authorise the

Director or an Additional Director or a Joint Director or a

Deputy Director or an Assistant Director appointed

under that sub-section to appoint other authorities

below the rank of an Assistant Director. Sub-section

(3) of Section 49 imposes conditions and limitations as

the Central Government may impose, an authority may

exercise the powers and discharge the duties conferred

or imposed on it under this Act. On this background of

appointment of respondent No.2 as Assistant Director,

he can exercise the power under the PML Act for filing

the complaint as per Section 45 of the PML Act in view

of the notification dated 11.11.2014. 21 23. Therefore, respondent No.2 as an Assistant

Director who after taking charge, is empowered to file

the complaint before the Special Court under Section 45 of PML Act. The complainant has categorically stated in

the complaint at first para stating that the complaint

being filed under Sections 44 and 45 of the PML Act for

commission of offence defined under Section 3 of the

PML Act read with Section 70 and 8(5) and Section 4 of

the PML Act and the complainant has been an

authorized officer for filing this complaint in view

of authorization issued by the Government of India,

Ministry of Finance, Department of Revenue, New

Delhi in F. No.6/14/2008-ES dated 11.11.2014.

Therefore, once the officer is posted as an Assistant

Director, he has exercised the power and filed the

complaint before the Special Court. Therefore, the

contention of the learned Senior Counsel that

respondent No.2 has no authority to file the complaint

cannot be accepted. 24. Though the learned Senior Counsel for the

petitioner has relied upon the judgment of the Hon'ble 22 Supreme Court in case of M/s. Canon India Private

Limited. (supra) in respect of the Customs Act before

the Central Excise against the order in respect of the

matter dealt with the Central Excise and Service Tax

Appellate Tribunal. But, in the facts and circumstances

of the case , the said judgment is not applicable to the

case on hand for the reason stated above. 25. Another contention raised by the learned

Senior Counsel is in respect of the appointment of the

1st respondent-Deputy Director in respect of issuing the

provisional attachment order on 27.06.2019 under Section 5(1) of the PML Act where the provisional

attachment order has been challenged by him before

the Appellate Tribunal and the Appellate Tribunal said to

have allowed the claim of the petitioner and passed an

order. The provisional attachment order has not been

challenged before this Court and therefore, the question

of challenging the appointment of one Parashivamurthy

M.K. as Deputy Director does not arise. The order

under Section 5 of the PML Act is nothing but an

administrative order which was challenged before the 23 Appellate Tribunal and the order of the Tribunal is not

before this Court and not challenged in this petition.

Therefore, the question of considering the power of the

respondent No.1 cannot be dealt with by this Court in

this petition. Respondent No.2 has filed the complaint

as Assistant Director which is in the nature of charge

sheet and there are two different proceedings in view of

the order passed under Section 5 and filing complaint

under section 45 of the PML Act. Therefore, the

contention of the petitioner's counsel at paragraphs 7

and 8 of the petition questioning the authority of

respondent Nos.1 and 2 is not sustainable and the

respondents are the authorities under the PML Act and

who have been duly appointed by the Central

Government and they exercised their power under the

Act which is within the jurisdiction under the PML Act .

The Hon'ble Supreme Court settled the issue in respect

of the proceedings under Section 5(1) of the PML Act

regarding provisional attachment orders passed by the

Deputy Director has been upheld in the case of J.

SEKAR VS. UNION OF INDIA reported in 2018 SCC 24 Online DEL 6523. Therefore, this Court cannot find

any illegality or irregularity in filing the complaint by

respondent No.2 in order to set aside the same. 26. The other contention raised by the learned

Senior Counsel for the petitioner is that the Special

Court has not applied its mind while taking cognizance

and has also not passed a detailed order. In this regard,

I have perused the order of taking cognizance by the

Special Court, wherein the Special Court has stated

that it has perused the charge sheet and taken

cognizance against accused Nos.1 to 26 for the offences

under Sections 3 and 4 of the PML Act and ordered to

register a special case and issued summons to the other

accused persons and NBW to the petitioner herein. It is

submitted that accused No.9 is in abroad and not in

Bengaluru and he has appeared through his attorney

Holder. In this regard, the learned counsel for

respondent has relied upon the judgment of the Hon'ble

Supreme Court in PRADEEP S. WODEYAR VS. STATE

OF KARNATAKA report in 2021 SCC online SC 1140. 25 The Hon'ble Supreme Court while referring the case of

Afroz Mohammed Hasanfatta and also the Pepsi Foods

Ltd. case, at paragraph 86, has categorically held as

under: Investigating officer/SHO collects the necessary
 evidence during the investigation conducted in
 compliance with the provisions of the Criminal
 Procedure Code and in accordance with the
 rules of investigation. Evidence and materials so
 collected are sifted at the level of the
 investigating officer and thereafter, charge-
 sheet was filed. In appropriate cases, opinion of
 the Public Prosecutor is also obtained before
 filing the charge-sheet. The court thus has the
 advantage of the police report along with the
 materials placed before it by the police. Under Section 190(1)(b) CrPC, where the
 Magistrate has taken cognizance of an
 offence upon a police report and the
 Magistrate is satisfied that there is
 sufficient ground for proceeding, the
 Magistrate directs issuance of process. In
 case of taking cognizance of an offence 26 based upon the police report, the
 Magistrate is not required to record
 reasons for issuing the process. In cases
 instituted on a police report, the
 Magistrate is only required to pass an
 order issuing summons to the accused. Such an order of issuing summons to the
 accused is based upon satisfaction of the
 Magistrate considering the police report and
 other documents and satisfying himself that
 there is sufficient ground for proceeding against
 the accused. In a case based upon the police
 report, at the stage of issuing the summons to
 the accused, the Magistrate is not required to
 record any reason. In case, if the charge-sheet
 is barred by law or where there is lack of
 jurisdiction or when the charge-sheet is rejected
 or not taken on file, then the Magistrate is
 required to record his reasons for rejection of
 the charge-sheet and for not taking it on file." (emphasis supplied) 27. In view of the judgment of the Hon'ble

Supreme Court in Pradeep S. Wodeyar 's case (supra),

the trial Court need not pass a lengthy order for taking

cognizance in respect of the challan filed by the police

after the investigation. The application of mind and the

detailed order is required only while taking cognizance 27 in the private complaint filed by the complainant.

Therefore, the contention of the learned Senior Counsel

that the trial Court has not applied its mind while taking

cognizance cannot be acceptable. 28. On perusal of the entire records, respondent

No.2 is an authorised officer under the PML Act appointed as per Section 49 of the PML Act and he is

one of the officers specified under Section 48 of the PML

Act. By issuing the notifications, the Central

Government has empowered the officer to file the

complaint before the Special Court and respondent No.2

is not officer who comes below the rank of the Assistant

Director. Therefore, the question of quashing the

complaint/challan filed by the respondent No.2 before

the Special Court does not call for any interference. 29. I have already held that appointment of

respondent No.1 is within the jurisdiction and

appointment by the Central Government by issuing

notification. Even otherwise, the provisional

attachment order passed by respondent No.1 was 28 challenged before the appellate Tribunal. The petitioner

is said to have obtained interim order. Such being the

case, the contention of the petitioner challenging the

appointment of respondent No.1 is not acceptable and

the Hon'ble Supreme Court has also upheld the

proceedings under Section 5 of the PML Act in Sekar's

case (supra). The writ petition is devoid of merit and hence,

liable to be dismissed. Accordingly, it is dismissed. Sd/- JUDGE
CS/AKV