Assessee's appeal is emanating from impugned order dated 30/09/2019,

passed by the learned Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals)-1, Nagpur,

["learned CIT(A)"], for the assessment year 2011-12. 2. In its appeal, the assessee has raised following grounds:- 3. The factual matrix of the case are, the assessee is a school teacher. During the relevant years under consideration, the assessee earned his

income from salary and interest income. The case of the assessee was re- opened under section 147 of the Income Tax Act, 1961 ("the Act") on the

basis of information received from Investigation Wing, Nagpur. The additions

mainly pertain to huge cash/cheques deposit in the bank account of one Shri

Shankarrao Bhad, and this bank account of Shri Bhad, was operated by the

assessee through Power of Attorney(POA) given by Shri Bhad. The Assessing

Officer has made protective additions in the hands of the assessee and the

same additions are also made in the hands of Shri Bhad, also who is the

owner of the stated ICICI bank account, substantively. These cases directly

emanate out of the report of the Investigation Wing, Nagpur, which revealed

a scam of sorts. Pursuant to the various enquiries, the statements of all

concerned, i.e., the bank account holder Shri Bhad, and the bank account

operator/POA holder, being the assessee was recorded. As per the statements

given by these two persons before the Investigation Wing and the various 3 Shri Mukesh Champalal Malviya
 ITA no.389/Nag./2019

submissions before the Assessing Officer, it becomes evident that the said

bank account was opened in the name of Shri Bhad, and operated by the

assessee at the instructions of Late Shri Deven Malviya. The whole case is

focused and part of the Ponzi Scheme floated and operated by Late Shri

Deven Malviya. lt is also a stated fact that all the deposits and withdrawals

were made at the instruction of Late Deven Malviya. Shri Deven Malviya (now

deceased), a person known to the assessee, was working as a stock broker at

Pune. Shri Deven Malviya, had developed a huge network of sub brokers and

agents working for him in entire India by assuring them of commission

income, for use of their bank accounts through which he has received

investments and rotated funds that were invested in the stock market. He

used the bank accounts of his agent for to make investments as a broker. He

had several agents across India mainly in Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and

Gujrat. Shri Deven Malviya, a person known to the assessee approached and

developed a close relation with assessee. Later after gaining his confidence,

Shri Deven Malviya, asked him to open an account in the assessee's name. Being a teacher in a Government Schools and as a Government employee he

was unable to do so. But since Deven Malviya had shown a very rosy picture

to the assessee, he fell under his influence and, therefore, on his suggestion,

the appellant along with another person Shri Shankarrao Bhad, opened an

account in the name of Shri Shankarrao Bhad, which was operated by the

assessee through a Power of Attorney. Being convinced by the assessee, Shri.

Shankarrao Bhad, opened the account in the name of his newly formed

proprietary concern "M/s. Pioneer Investments" in the ICICI Bank, Civil Lines

and Ramdaspeth Branches. The bank branches were also suggested by Shri 4 Shri Mukesh Champalal Malviya
 ITA no.389/Nag./2019

Deven Malviya, so that it would be convenient to transfer funds to and from

his the accounts as Shri Deven Malviya, also maintained his accounts in the

same branches with ICICI Bank. As Shri Bhad, was unknown to Shri Deven

Malviya, the assessee was instructed to obtain power of attorney from Shri

Bhad, to operate the bank accounts. Accordingly, the assessee with the power

of attorney from Shri Bhad, operated the bank accounts at the instruction of

Shri Deven Malviya. These facts are stated in the statements recorded of Shri

Bhad, and assessee on 15/10/2015 by the Investigation Wing, Nagpur. Meanwhile, in response to the assessee's application under section 144A of

the Act, submitted before the learned JCIT, Range-5, Nagpur, requesting for

issuance of certain directions to the Assessing Officer, the learned JCIT issued

certain directions to the Assessing Officer which are contained in the

assessment order vide Para-26 and 27 are relevant. The Assessing Officer, in

view of the said directions of the learned JCIT, Nagpur, the credits in the

aforesaid bank account amounting to ` 3,51,00,000, which has been

considered as undisclosed income of the assessee from undisclosed sources,

as discussed in detail by the Assessing Officer in its assessment order vide

Para-16, 17, 18, 19 and 25, was added to the returned income of the

assessee under section 56(1) of the Act on protective basis. The total cash

deposited by the assessee during the year under consideration in the

aforesaid bank accounts in ICICI Bank, Nagpur, works out to be ` 7,15,000,

and the total of money deposited by way of cheques and transfers works out

to be ` 3,58,15,000 i.e., ` 7,15,000 + ` 3,51,00,000. In view of the directions

of the learned JCIT, Nagpur, vide his directions dated 21/12/2017, to

Assessing Officer considered 10% of the aforesaid receipts in cash as well as 5 Shri Mukesh Champalal Malviya
 ITA no.389/Nag./2019

in chequest and transfer was considered as the undisclosed income of the

assessee on substantive basis, which was treated as income of the assessee

and was added to the total income. 4. On appeal, the learned CIT(A) partly allowed the assessee's appeal

while observing as under:- "5.5 I have perused the bank accounts as submitted by the appellant during
 the appellate proceedings, wherein it is observed that the transfer of the funds
 were predominantly transferred to and from certain firms namely M/s. Vibrant
 Projects, M/s. Vibrant Equities, M/s. Velocity Capital Market, M/s. Dynamic
 Commodities etc. It is also found that all these accounts pertain to either Shri
 Deven Malviya or his wife Smt Disha Malviya. The AO has stressed the issue of
 confirmation from Mr. Deven Malviya, which was unavailable as Shri Deven
 Malviya had committed suicide in 2010. Therefore, the AO opted to add the
 amounts credited in the bank accounts, in the hands of appellant. 5.6 In support of the aforesaid facts, the appellant has submitted the
 newspaper pieces published in various national and regional dailies, that had
 reported the news that Late Shri Deven Malviya has committed monetary
 fraud of Rs.2,000 Crores and duped investors. The names of companies owned
 by Mr. Deven Malviya were also highlighted in the news items. The same
 companies were found mentioned in the bank statements submitted by the
 appellant. All these information were before the AO as well. Therefore, it was
 not difficult for the AO to obtain further information of Mr. Deven Malviya and
 his concerns as he was already in possession of information and bank details.
 However, the AO has not enquired any further and has chosen to simply
 added all the credits- rather than arrive at the correct income- or even the
 correct nature of income. Since the appellant has proved that the transactions
 were routed through the accounts actually belonging to Mr. Deven Malviya and
 monies belonged to him, the AO without assigning any reason, rejected the
 plea taken by the appellant and made the additions in his hand. When the
 appellant had narrated the whole fact before the AO and AO was confronted
 with tangible material on record about the source of transaction and money,
 he should have made independent enquiry of the firms owned by Deven
 Malviya as well as the persons who had invested the money with Mr. Deven
 Malviya through the appellant. However, the AO refrained himself from
 arriving at the real and correct position that could have led to a proper
 assessment. 5.7 The other crucial fact which is available in the public domain is that Shri.
 Deven Malviya, committed suicide on 30/12/2010 by jumping off from 22nd
 floor of Marriott Hotel & Convention Centre at Pune. Thereafter, during the
 investigations made made by police, it was revealed that he had made similar
 arrangements with several persons at different places, where he lured them
 by promising handsome returns on the amounts invested. In order to route
 the money of other persons in the stock market, he had followed a similar and 6 Shri Mukesh Champalal Malviya
 ITA no.389/Nag./2019

identical modus operandi. The cases of other such victims, have been decided
by ITAT, Rajkot and Raipur and these decisions have been relied upon by the
appellant since having similar question of fact as of the appellant. These
assessees were also victims of the scheme floated by the same person, Late
Shri Deven Malviya. These cases are decided in the favour of assessees as
under: As none of the money belongs to the appellant, no addition of entire deposit or
cash peak shall be made in the hands of the appellant. Accordingly, the cash
peak balance of Rs.3,60,000 in AY 2009-10 and Rs.12,65,000 in AY 2010-11
which is added to the income of the appellant is hereby deleted. Shri Mukesh Champalal Malviya
 ITA no.389/Nag./2019

 5.11 Further, the AO has added Rs.12,40,692 in AY 2010-11 and
 Rs.35,81,500 in AY 2011-12 being 10% deemed profit on total credits
 reflected in the bank account. As already discussed, it is well established that
 the appellant has neither executed any turnover nor did the money belong to
 him, and therefore, the addition of deemed profit is not sustainable and hence
 addition of deemed profit of Rs.12,40,692 in AY 2010-11 and Rs.35,81,500 in
 AY 2011-12 is hereby directed to be deleted. 5.12 In AY 2010-11 and AY 2011-12, the AO has added whole amount of
 credits in bank account as the income of the appellant. As discussed above,
 none of the money belongs to the appellant, and hence no addition of entire
 deposit can be made in the hands of the appellant. In view of this, the cheque
 deposits of Rs. 82,91,924 in AY 2010-11 and Rs. 3,51,00,000 in AY 2011-12
 added to the income of the appellant is hereby deleted. 5.13 In AY 2011-12, cash withdrawn by appellant at the instruction of legal
 heir of Late Shri Deven Malviya, after his death, of Rs. 1,27,000 is also added
 by the AO. The AO erred in considering the said withdrawals as income, as he
 had already added the credit thereof in the bank account on protective basis.
 This also implies that the AO has not applied his mind in order to ascertain the
 actual income of the appellant, rather made the addition with prejudiced mind.
 The the said addition of Rs.1,27,000 for AY 2011-12 cannot be sustained for
 the said reason, and is deleted. 5.14 These additions made by the AO are found to be without basis and are
 deleted on the consideration of evidences placed on records as well as the
 facts established by the Hon'ble ITAT of Raipur and Rajkot. A summary of year
 wise deletion of additions is provided hereunder for the sake of ease: 5.15 However, although the gross additions have been deleted, it cannot be
 denied that the appellant and Mr Bhad (the owner of the impugned ban
 account)may well have received commission income from the transactions
 carried out in the bank accounts. Hence, in the identical case of Smt. Deven
 Malviya and the Late Deven Malviya, which have also been decided recently, it
 has been held that the owner/operator of bank accounts associated with the
 Ponzi scheme would have earned commission income as that was the whole
 purpose driving the said scheme. It would be in the fitness of natural justice
 and equity to apply the same principle to the case of the appellant as well. In
 the case of Shri Deven Malviya, the AO himself has graciously accepted at
 para 3.3 of the assessment order for AY 2011-12 that - Shri Mukesh Champalal Malviya
 ITA no.389/Nag./2019

 "3.3 In this case, since there is nothing on record except the figures of deposit
 and withdrawal and also the assessee is no more to explain his case, there is
 no other option than to complete the case of the estimate basis. However, from
 the information available on record and also from the plain reading of the
 submission of the assessee it is clear that the assessee was engaged in the
 business of collecting money from the public at large and to give them returns
 after getting some commission income from it. Therefore, it is clear that the
 assessee was engaged in the business of getting commission on investment in
 securities. The money collected at large was the gross turnover of the
 assessee. In this case, the assessee from the present AY i.e AY 2011-12 had
 received a total amount of Rs. 54,92,25,000/- which is estimated as the total
 turnover of the assessee. Since, while doing assessment in cases of such
 similar facts, have seen that usually there is 3 to 5% happens the receipt of
 such broker. Further, I have also seen that there is 15 to 20% of the total
 receipts is the net profit of the assessee. Since, there is nothing on record to
 explain or clarify anything further in this case; I estimate that 5% of the total
 turnover is the gross receipts of the assessee and further 20% of total such
 gross receipt is the total profit of the assessee. Thus, the total profit of the
 assessee for the relevant AY, ie AY 2011-12 is estimated at Rs. 54,92,250/-
 (20% of 5% of Rs. 54,92.25,000/-). Since, the assessee has not offered this
 amount in return of income the amount of Rs. 54,92,250/- is added back to the
 total income of the assessee." 5.16 The fact that the owner/ operator of the bank account would be entitled
to commission income only has been accepted by the AO for AY 2011-12 in
the case of Late Shri Deven Malviya. This observation was upheld and
accepted in that case . Based on the same principle, I am of the opinion that
certainly some additions in the nature of commission income is warranted. It
is a matter of record that the appellant was not the beneficiary of all the
credits in the stated bank accounts, but had accepted money from others/
investors based on which he was entitled to commission income. I therefore
find that the interest of justice would be served by estimating the commission
income at 0.20% of the turnover which is considered to be the total deposits
in the bank accounts, including cash and cheques. This 0.2% commission
income is already decided by me in the case of Late Shri Deven Malviya, the
prime promoter of the scheme, and the same principal is applied also in the
case of the appellant. 5.17 For the sake of clarity, this rate of commission is applied on the basis of
decision in Sanjay Kumar Garg Vs. ACIT (2012) 144 TTJ 77 (ITAT Delhi) which
is relied upon by the AR, wherein the Hon'ble ITAT has estimated the
commission income by applying 0.2% net commission on turnover as against
1% applied by the AO in that case . The estimation of income hereinabove thus
finds support from the order of the Hon'ble ITAT and is in accordance to the
percentage of income estimated therein. 5.18 Therefore, the amount of commission, net of expenses, shall be 0.20% of
the turnover transacted in the impugned bank account. Further, as the
account is owned by Mr. Shankarrao Bhad and operated by the appellant, the
net commission shall be equally divided amongst them and shall be taxed in
respective hands accordingly......" The assessee being aggrieved is in appeal before the Tribunal. Shri Mukesh Champalal Malviya
 ITA no.389/Nag./2019 5. During the course of hearing before us, the learned Departmental

Representative informed the Bench that the appeal of Shri Shankarrao Bhad,

is still undecided at the level of the learned CIT(A). Hence, we are of the

opinion that the learned CIT(A) had fallen in a grave error in deciding the

appeal singly without considering the fate of the other person where addition

is made on substantive basis. It is a trite law that both adjudications

regarding protective and substantive must be done simultaneously. Accordingly, the appeal of the Revenue is allowed and we set aside the entire

matter back to the file of the learned CIT(A) for denovo adjudication in the

lines enumerated above. 6. In the result, assessee's appeal is allowed for statistical purposes.