The appellants in this appeal under Section 96 of Code of Civil

Procedure are challenging the legality and validity of the judgment and

decree dated 30.7.2016 passed by the Additional Judge, Civil District-

Surguja Ambikapur to the Court of Additional District Judge,

Ramanujganj in Civil Suit No.8A/2013 whereby the suit has been

allowed. (For the sake of convenience, parties shall hereinafter be

referred to as per their description before the trial Court.) 02. The plaintiffs filed a civil suit for declaration of title, partition and

for permanent injunction in respect of the properties described in 3 / 21 Schedules A, B & C annexed with the plaint. The plaintiffs averred that

their father Sitaram Gupta, who was Karta of the joint Hindu family, was

engaged in the business of manufacturing of Bidi No.1575 at

Ramanujganj Nagar and selling it at a large scale and from its earning,

had acquired a house and open land at Ramanujganj. The suit

properties are the properties of the plaintiffs' paternal and maternal

side in which the plaintiffs have 1/5-1/5 share. However, defendants

No. 1 to 3 without notice to the plaintiffs in collusion with the revenue

authorities have got their names recorded in the revenue records over

the suit properties. By intimidating Late Kunti Devi, defendants No. 1 to

3 got a forged and fabricated Will dated 7.11.1988 executed without

getting the coparcenary property partitioned and without obtaining the

probate, got the mutation done. Though in the Will dated 7.11.1988

name of plaintiff No.2 is mentioned but the name of plaintiff No.1 is not

there. Defendants No.1 to 3 by playing fraud with plaintiff No.1 got an

affidavit executed from her that she is relinquishing her right and share

in favour of defendants No. 1 to 3 which came to her notice when she

visited the house of plaintiff No.2. Plaintiff No.2 filed an application for

mutation in respect of the coparcenary property before the Court of

Sub Divisional Officer, Ramanujganj in which defendants No. 1 to 3 did

not even file written statement. Defendants No. 1 to 3 have rented out

the house and shop constructed on land bearing Khasra No.180/1401,

area 0.22 acre, from which they are getting rent of Rs.5,500/- p.m..

Hence this suit. 03. Defendants No. 1 to 3 in their written statement contended that

the suit properties are not the coparcenary or joint family properties of

the plaintiffs and defendants No. 1 to 3. Late Sitaram Gutpa was

separately doing the business of manufacturing of bidi. The land shown

in Schedule A annexed with the written statement was acquired by

defendants No. 1 to 3 by virtue of registered Will executed by their

mother Late Smt. Kunti Devi, defendant No.1 also purchased some

lands from his own earning on different dates and some lands were

received through Will executed by Late Sitaram Gupta and the plaintiffs

have no title or share in the said properties at all. Late Kunti Bai had

executed a registered Will in respect of the self-acquired land in favour

of defendants No. 1 to 3 along with plaintiff No.2 on 7.11.1988 based

on which they got their names recorded in the revenue records and

thereafter, plaintiff No.2 after getting a pacca house constructed on her

share of 5 decimal of land is living in it with her family since 1989. Land

bearing Khasra No.105 at Ramanujganj and Khasra Nos. 881, 890,

1544, 891, 2166 and 880 situated at Village-Mahavirganj were

purchased by defendants No. 1 to 3 from their own income through

registered sale deed. The land situated at Village-Lurgi bearing Khasra

No.2/13, new Khasra No. 36, 2.64 are was received by defendants No.

1 to 3 through Will executed by Late Sitaram Gupta. Late Sitaram

Gupta had purchased nuzul plot No.179 area 0.16 decimal situated at

Ramanujganj Nagar on 3.2.1977 from Devchand Prasad Gupta

through registered sale deed and on 20.9.1986 Late Sitaram Gupta 5 / 21 executed a Will in favour of defendants No. 1 to 3 in respect of the said

land. Since Kunti Devi had made settlement through her Will in respect

of land shown in Schedule A during her lifetime, Section 8 of the Hindu

Succession Act does not apply to the said land. Therefore, the plaintiffs

have no right or share in the suit properties and the suit is liable to be

dismissed. 04. Defendants No. 4 & 5 remained ex-parte and no written

statement was filed by them. 05. On the basis of pleadings of the respective parties and the

documents filed by them, the learned trial Court framed as many as 09

issues and after appreciation of oral and documentary evidence

allowed by the suit of the plaintiffs by the impugned judgment and

decree, hence this appeal. 06. Learned counsel for the appellants/defendants No. 1 to 3 would

submit that the impugned judgment and decree are illegal, erroneous

and contrary to law. It has committed an illegality in passing the order

dated 20.1.2016 without there being any enquiry and opportunity of

hearing whereby the plaintiffs were exempted from payment of court

fee. The notification under determination and the question of category

of annual income should be decided before trial of the suit and issues

regarding maintainability of the suit, limitation and court fees are to be

decided as preliminary issue under Order 14 Rule 1 & 2 of CPC . Once

issue No.5 regarding valuation of the suit and the court fees has 6 / 21 already been decided against the plaintiffs, application under Section

35 of the Court Fees Act on the same ground ought not to have been

entertained. Learned trial Court grossly erred in holding that the

properties bearing Khasra Nos. 126, 874, 105, 165, 881, 890, 1544,

861, 2166, 880 purchased through registered sale deed dated

16.5.1968 by defendants No.1 to 3 were purchased out of income of

the joint Hindu family though the plaintiffs failed to prove income of the

joint Hindu family. Likewise, it also grossly erred in holding that the

properties bearing Khasra Nos. 1113, 1154/2, 1134, 1135 purchased by

Banshidhar Gupta through sale deed dated 18.3.1983 were purchased

out of income of the joint Hindu family. He would next submit that the plaintiffs completely failed to

discharge their burden as to proof of joint family nucleus from which

the properties were purchased. Learned trial Court ought to have

appreciated the fact that the property could not be presumed to be a

joint Hindu family property merely because of existence of a joint Hindu

family. Defendants No. 1 to 3 categorically pleaded and proved the

source of their income and that the property in question was purchased

out of their own income but the learned trial Court ignored the oral and

documentary evidence placed before it substantiating the above fact. It

has also ignored the evidence of Biharilal Gupta in para Nos. 12 to 14

and other evidence adduced by defendants No. 1 to 3. 7 / 21 07. Learned counsel for the appellants would further submit that the

plaintiffs failed to discharge their initial burden with regard to registered

sale deeds dated 16.5.1968 and 18.3.1983. Learned trial Court grossly

erred in holding that the Will executed on 20.9.1986 by Sitaram Gupta

and 7.11.1988 by Kunti Devi are not genuine documents in the face of

evidence of attesting witnesses DW-2 Pramod Goswami and DW-3

Radheshyam Keshri who have duly proved execution of the Will in

question. Plaintiff No.2 Nirmala Devi cannot raise any objection and

she is estopped from challenging the Will dated 7.1.1988 after getting

benefit of the same. Even otherwise, the suit filed by the plaintiffs was

not maintainable because the plaintiffs are not in possession of the

properties and no such relief was claimed. The simple suit of

declaration without seeking the relief of possession would be hit by Section 34 of the Specific Relief Act. No document was at all filed to

show possession over the land in question. From the entire plaint

averments it is clear that the plaintiffs have categorically pleaded that

the suit properties are the coparcenary joint Hindu family properties. A

heavy burden was cast upon them to prove the nature of the property

as coparcenary property. The plaintiffs ought to have made the specific

pleadings in respect of business, income derived from the said

business, the surplus amount etc. It is well settled that the property

held by the member of a joint Hindu family cannot be presumed to be

the property of joint family. Learned trial Court specifically held that the

plaintiffs have not pleaded that the suit properties were purchased out 8 / 21 of income of Late Sitaram Gupta or Late Kunti Devi but since there was

pleading in para No.24 of the plaint that the properties are paternal and

maternal, the learned trial Court proceeded to deal with the properties

as purchased by Late Sitaram Gupta, which is beyond the pleading

and evidence on record. For all these reasons, the impugned judgment

and decree be set aside and the suit filed by the plaintiffs be dismissed. Reliance is placed on the decisions in the matters of Shashi

Kumar Banerjee Vs. Subodh Kumar Banerjee , AIR 1964 SC 529; Surendra Pal Vs. Saraswati Arora (Dr ), (1974) 2 SCC 600; Pentakota Satyanarayana Vs. Pentakota Seetharatnam , (2005) 8

SCC 67; Bharpur Singh Vs. Shamsher Singh , (2009) 3 SCC 687; Kavita Kanwar Vs. Pamela Mehta , (2021) 11 SCC 209; and the

judgment dated 19.12.2019 of this Court in SA No.460/2006 in the

matter of Chandrika Prasad (dead) through LRs Vs. Ghanika

Prasad (dead) through LRs. 08. Opposing the submission of the appellants/defendants, it is

contended by learned counsel for respondents No.1 & 2 that learned

trial Court on proper appreciation of oral and documentary evidence

came to the conclusion that the entire suit property mentioned in the

plaint is proved to be the self acquired property of Late Sitaram and

Late Kunti Devi and it was not coparcenary property being inherited by

Late Sitaram and Kunti Devi. It also found that both the Wills dated

20.9.1986 and 7.11.1988 allegedly executed by Lt. Sitaram Gupta and 9 / 21 Lt. Kunti Devi respectively were not proved in accordance with Section

63(c) of the Indian Succession Act and Section 69 of the Indian

Evidence Act. The defendants testimonies before the Court itself falsify

execution of the said Wills. The attesting witnesses to the Will

Rameshwar Prasad and Radheshyam Keshri have given affidavits in

favour of the plaintiffs and they have denied execution of the Wills by

by these deceased persons. 09. As regard 5 decimal of land mentioned in the name of Nirmala

Devi in the Will, it is absolutely false averment of the defendants. In

fact, 5 decimal of land out of survey No.106 was given by mother of the

plaintiffs way back in 1982 whereas the Will was executed on

7.11.1988. Plaintiffs have clearly stated in their evidence that the said

land was never given by the Will and much prior to execution of the so

called Will, the land was given to plaintiff No.2 by Kunti Devi and she

was already having possession over the said land and the house was

also constructed subsequently. Moreover, plaintiff No.2 never moved

an application for getting the said land mutated in her name and all the

mutation proceedings were initiated by the defendants without

impleading plaintiff No.1 as a party and without any notice to her in a

clandestine manner the mutation was done. Therefore, no question of

estoppel, waver or relinquishment of title or right over the suit property

arises. He further argued that the defendants have failed to adduce

any evidence to show their independent income beyond the nucleus of

the joint Hindu family. At the relevant point of time, there was no 10 / 21 independent business of any of the defendants. There is no substance

in the present appeal and it is liable to be dismissed as such. Reliance has been placed on the decisions in the matter of KV

Narayanaswami Iyer Vs. KV Ramakrishna Iyer , AIR 1965 SC 289;

Baikuntha Nath Paramanik (dead) by His LRs. Vs. Sashi Bhusan

Paramanik (dead) by his LRs., AIR 1972 SC 2531; Kalyan Singh

Vs. Smt. Chhoti and others , AIR 1990 SC 396; Gurdial Kaur Vs.

Kartar Kaur , 1998 SAR (Civil) 401; Syed Dastagir Vs. TR

Gopalakrishna Setty, AIR 1999 SC 3029; Motilal Jain Vs. Smt.

Ramdasi Devi , 2000 SAR (Civil) 729; Janki Narayan Bhoir Vs.

Narayan Namdeo Kadam , AIR 2003 SC 761; Uma Devi Nambiar Vs.

TC Sidhan (dead), AIR 2004 SC 1772; Ravipal Vs. Smt. Mumtaz

Begum, 2010 (I) MPJR-CG 112; M.B. Ramesh (dead) by LRs Vs.

KM Veeraje URS (dead) by LRS, (2013) 7 SCC 490; H. Lakshmaiah

Reddy and others Vs. L. Venkatesh Reddy , (2015) 14 SCC 784; Dhannulal and others Vs. Ganeshram and another , (2015) 12 SCC

301; and Dhani Ram (died) through LRs. Vs. Shiv Singh, 2023 AIR

SC 4787. 10. Heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the material

available on record. 11. In this case, it was an admitted position before the learned trial

Court that plaintiffs Kamla Devi and Nirmala Devi and defendants No. 1

to 2 Biharilal, Banshi Prasad and Ramesh Kumar are children of Late 11 / 21 Sitaram Gupta and Late Kunti Devi. It was also not disputed that

Sitaram died on 20.11.1987 and Kunti Devi died on 24.11.1999. The

plaintiffs who are sisters of defendant Nos. 1 to 3 are claiming their

right on the paternal and maternal properties and according to them,

they have equal share in the whole properties whereas defendants No.

1 to 3 claim that as per Will dated 7.11.1988 executed by their mother

Late Kunti Devi (Ex.P/34) and other properties purchased on different

dates by defendants No. 1 to 3 in their names from their own money,

only they have rights and share over the said properties. The important

issues framed by learned trial Court on the basis of pleadings of the

respective parties are as under: 12. As per both the parties, Late Sitaram Gupta was doing the

business of manufacturing Bidi and he purchased some properties.

Defendants No. 1 to 3 state that they also purchased some of the

properties from their own income, so all the properties are not joint

Hindu family properties. It is clear from Ex.D/26 and D/27 that these

sale deeds were in the name of Sitaram Gupta. Some sale deeds were

in the name of Kunti Devi. Defendants No. 1 to 3 state that in Will

dated 7.11.1988 (Ex.D/28), some property was given to plaintiff No.2

Nirmala Devi by their mother Kunti Devi, she is beneficiary of this Will

and is in possession of the said property and also got her name

mutated in respect of that property. 13. It is clear from statements of witnesses that Nirmala Devi was in

possession of the said property before execution of the above Will.

DW-1 Biharilal Gupta admitted in cross-examination that it is true that

his father did not inherit any property and started the business at

Ramanujganj from the base. In para 19 he admits that at the time of

Suguja estate settlement, 54 decimal of land at Ramanujganj in the

names of his father and brothers of his father was settled and

volunteers that he purchased 10 decimal of land from Muneshwar Rao.

He states that in 1968 he was 20 years old. He admits that out of 54

decimal of land, his father received 11 decimal of land in partition. On

being questioned as to what was his source of income in 1968, this

witness replied that in 1968 he was working with one Dr. Rajeshwari

Tripathi and initially getting Rs.100/- per month and after five months, 13 / 21 was getting Rs.150/- p.m. which was wholly saved by him. In para 23

he admits that the business which his father was earlier doing was only

extended. He himself states that he started working in wholesale and

when all the three brothers started working, their father stopped

working. In para 24 he admits that he opened a general stores in the

name of M/s Sitaram Gupta. In para 27 he admits that their family is a

joint Hindu family which is still in existence today. In para 31 he admits

that all the lands, except one land, were purchased by him in the name

of all three brothers. In reply to the question as to how his father

purchased the land mentioned in para 6 when he has stated that his

father stopped doing business, he replied that it can be answered by

his father only. In para 49 he admits that the plaintiffs never executed

any document relinquishing their right or share in favour of their

brothers. 14. DW-2 Pramod Goswami admits his signature on Will dated

20.9.1986 (Ex.D/29) from A to A part but he admits in cross-

examination that he is tenant of Jwala Prasad Gupta and himself states

that he dumps grits near the petrol pump. In para 13 he denies that

since 1984-85 Sitaram Gupta had been critically ill and admits that

upon persuasion he (Sitaram) would understand. In para 14 he admits

that Sitaram was head of the family and the firm was in the name of

Sitaram. 15. DW-3 Radheshyam Keshri admits his signature on Will dated

7.11.1988 (Ex.D/28) from A to A part. In cross-examination he states

that at the time of execution of Will, Rameshwar, Uma Vakil, Kunti Devi

and himself were present and that after registration of the Will, Kunti

Devi returned to her house. When this witness was confronted with

Ex.P/5 i.e. affidavit of DW-3 filed by the plaintiffs, he denied to have

executed this affidavit. In para 10 he volunteers that once Nirmala Devi

and her husband Rameshwar came to his house and got his signature

on papers saying that it is his case and the Vakil sahab has asked for

this. He denies the suggestion that Kunti Devi did not go to registry

office for execution of Will as she was ill. In reply to a specific question

whether Will of Ex.P/28 was not executed in the office of registrar but in

the house of Kunti Devi, this witness states that they all put their

signature in the office of registrar before the registrar. However, on the

backside of page no.1 it is written that the Will was executed at the

residence of Kunti Devi. 16. Defendants No. 1 to 3 also filed revenue documents and stated

that name of Nirmala Devi was mutated in the revenue records as per

Will dated 7.11.1988 (Ex.P/34 & Ex.D/28), hence both the plaintiffs had

knowledge of this Will and plaintiff No.2 Nirmala Devi cannot now raise

any objection as to the genuineness or authenticity of this Will and she

is estopped from challenging the same. However, it is clear from the

statements of witnesses and documents that Sitaram had a joint Hindu

family consisting of his wife Smt. Kunti Devi and children i.e. the 15 / 21 plaintiffs and defendants No. 1 to 3. Defendants No. 1 to 3 have failed

to prove that they purchased some of the properties from their own

income. It is also clear that at the time of execution of some sale

deeds, defendants No.1 and 2 were minor and defendant No.3 was not

even born. They have also not filed any relinquishment deed or any

other document which could show that both the sisters/plaintiffs had

relinquished their right or share in the whole property in favour of their

brothers/defendants. They filed only Will of Sitaram and Kunti Devi but

it is clear that statements of the attesting witnesses are not proper and

DW-3 Radheshyam Keshri did not even remember whether Kunti Devi

executed the Will in question at her residence or in the registrar office.

It is also clear from the Will dated 7.11.1988 that it is drafted very

cleverly and as per the plaintiffs, only the part of the property which

was in possession of Nirmala Devi was given to her and Kamla Devi

was not giving anything. 17. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the matter of H. Lakshmaiah

Reddy (supra) held in para 8 of its judgment as under: The assumption on the part of the courts below that as a
result of the mutation, the widow divested herself of the title
and possession was wrong. If that be so, legally, she was in
possession on the date of coming into force of the Hindu
Succession Act and she, as a full owner, had every right to
deal with the suit properties in any manner she desired." 17 / 21 In the circumstances, we are of the opinion that the High
 Court erred in concluding that the first defendant by his
 conduct had acquiesced and divested himself of title of his
 half-share in suit property and the said erroneous
 conclusion is liable to be set aside." 18. In the matter of Dhannulal and others (supra) the Hon'ble Apex

Court held in para 19 as under: "19. Proof of a will stands in a higher degree in
 comparison to other documents. There must be a clear
 evidence of the attesting witnesses or other witnesses that
 the contents of the will were read over to the executant and
 he, after admitting the same to be correct, puts his
 signature in presence of the witnesses. It is only after the
 executant puts his signature, the attesting witnesses shall
 put their signatures in the presence of the executant." 19. In the case of MB Ramesh (supra) the Hon'ble Supreme Court

held in paras 21 & 28 of its judgment as under: That test emphasises that in determining the question as to
whether an instrument produced before the court is the last
will of the testator, the court is called upon to decide a
solemn question and by reason of suspicious
circumstances the court has to be satisfied fully that the will
has been validly executed by the testator. (6) If a caveator alleges fraud, undue influence, coercion,
etc. in regard to the execution of the will, such pleas have
to be proved by him, but even in the absence of such
pleas, the very circumstances surrounding the execution of
the will may raise a doubt as to whether the testator was 20 / 21 acting of his own free will. And then it is a part of the initial
 onus of the propounder to remove all reasonable doubts in
 the matter." 28. As stated by this Court also in H. Venkatachala
 Iyengar and Jaswant Kaur, while arriving at the finding as
 to whether the will was duly executed, the Court must
 satisfy its conscience having regard to the totality of
 circumstances. The Court's role in matters concerning wills
 is limited to examining whether the instrument propounded
 as the last will of the deceased is or is not that by the
 testator, and whether it is the product of the a free and
 sound disposing mind [as observed by this Court in para 77
 of Gurdev Kaur v. Kaki , (2007) 1 SCC 546]. In the present
 matter, there is no dispute about these factors." 20. In light of the above decisions, if we examine the facts and

evidence of the present case it is clear that the attesting witnesses of

both the Wills admitted some suggestions of the plaintiffs that at the

time of executing Will, Sitaram was not well and DW-3 also does not

remember whether Kunti Devi executed the Will at her residence or in

the office of registrar. Defendants No. 1 to 3 have also failed to prove

the fact that they purchased some of the properties from their own

income and not from the income of the joint Hindu family. They have

also failed to file any relinquishment deed or any other documents

which could show that the plaintiffs had relinquished their right and

share in the properties in favour of them. 21. Learned trial Court after minute appreciation of all the oral and

 documentary evidence on record has rightly recorded a finding that the

 whole property belongs to Late Sitaram Gupta and Late Kunti Devi;

 defendants No. 1 to 3 failed to prove both the Wills in their favour and

 also failed to prove that some of the properties were purchased by

 them from their own income. Having thus observed the learned trial

 Court decided the issues in favour of the plaintiffs and against

 defendants No. 1 to 3 and held the plaintiffs entitled for 1/5-1/5 share in

 the suit properties. The judgments relied upon by learned counsel for

 the appellants being distinguishable on facts are of no help to them.

 This Court finds no illegality or infirmity in the said findings calling for

 any interference by this Court. As such, the instant appeal being

 without any substance is hereby dismissed. A decree be drawn up accordingly.