Mr. P. N. Modi, Advocate with Mr. Neville Lashkari, Mr. Joby Mathew,
Mr. Deepak Dhane, Advocates for the Appellant. Mr. Shiraz Rustomjee, Senior Advocate with Mr. Mobin Shaikh, Advocate for the
Respondent

CORAM : P. K. Malhotra, Member & Presiding Officer (Offg.)
 S. S. N. Moorthy, Member

Per : P. K. Malhotra

 This appeal has been filed against the order dated December 27, 2011

passed by the whole time member of the Securities and Exchange Board of India

(for short the Board) under regulation 28(2) of the Securities and Exchange

Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008 holding the appellant guilty of

violating regulation 4 (a), (b), (c) and (d) of the Securities and Exchange Board

of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices Relating to

Securities Market) Regulations, 1995 (for short FUTP regulations) and clause A

(2), (3), (4) and (5) of the Code of Conduct prescribed for the stockbrokers in

Schedule II under regulation 7 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India

(Stock broker and Sub-broker) Regulations, 1992 (for short Stockbrokers 2 Regulations) and suspending the certificate of registration of the appellant for a

period of one month. 2. The appellant is a public limited company which is registered as a

stockbroker with the Board. It had executed trades on behalf of its clients,

among others, in the scrip of G. G. Automotive Gears Ltd. (for short the

company). The Board carried out investigations in the dealings of the scrip of

the company for the period from August 1, 2002 to October 16, 2002 and it

found that a group of four member brokers, including the appellant, and their

clients traded in the scrip of the company in a circular manner intra day for forty

days during the investigation period. The appellant had executed trades on

behalf of its client Ms. Indumati Goda. Proceedings were intitiated against the

brokers and their clients separately around the same time. Show cause notice

dated June 5, 2006 was issued to the four brokers including the appellant alleging

that the four member brokers and their clients had traded in a circular pattern

intra day for forty days during the period of investigation. The brokers and their

clients involved in the circular trading alongwith the contribution of each was

referred to in the show cause notice in the form of a table which is reproduced

hereunder for facility of reference:- The show cause notice further mentioned that investigations had revealed that one

Shri Shirish C. Shah had fruadulently traded on behalf of Ms. Indumati Goda and

her daughter in law Ms. Trusha Goda. On the basis of these allegations in the

show cause notice, the appellant was alleged to have violated provisions of

regulation 4 of the FUTP regulations and also the Code of Conduct prescribed for

the stockbrokers under the stockbroker's regulations. 3. The appellant filed its reply denying the allegation that it was involved in

any way in the circular trades in the scrip of the company. However, the

appellant admitted that it had executed trades on behalf of Ms. Indumati Goda.

On consideration of the material collected during the investigations and the

enquiry, the enquiry officer submitted his report dated January 22, 2009 holding

the appellant guilty of charges levelled against it. A copy of the enquiry report

was then furnished to the appellant alongwith a notice dated March 16, 2009

calling upon it to show cause as to why the same should not be accepted. The

appellant again filed its reply on April 22, 2009 denying the allegation that it was

a party to the circular trading. However, the whole time member, after

considering the material on record, noted that the appellant had traded in the scrip

of the company for its client Ms. Indumati Goda and it aided and abetted the

creation of misleading appearance of trading by its clients in the securities market.

By his order dated April 19, 2011, the whole time member of the Board held the

appellant guilty of violating the provisions of regulation 4 (a), (b), (c) and (d) of

the FUTP regulations and also Clause A (1) to (5) of the code of conduct

prescribed for the stockbrokers under the stockbrokers regulations and suspended

the certificate of registration of the appellant for a period of one month. The

appellant challenged the said order before this Tribunal. After hearing learned

counsel for the parties at length, the Tribunal, by its order dated June 21, 2011,

remanded the matter to the Board for proceeding afresh in the matter. While

remanding the matter to the Board, the Tribunal observed as under:- 4 4. In compliance with the order passed by this Tribunal, the Board issued a

fresh show cause notice dated September 27, 2011 on the basis of the enquiry

report dated January 22, 2009 modifying the charge to some extent. The relevant

part of the notice which enumerates the charge is reproduced hereunder for ease

of reference:- On the basis of the above, it was alleged that the appellant had violated provisions

of regulation 4 (a), (b), (c) and (d) of the FUTP regulations and Clause A (1) to

(5) of the code of conduct prescribed under the stockbrokers regulations. 5. The appellant submitted its reply dated November 21, 2011 again

denying the charges. It also took preliminary objection stating that the direction

of the Tribunal is to initiate fresh proceedings in accordance with law. However,

instead of proceeding afresh, the Board has relied on the same enquiry report and

issued a fresh show cause notice. It was also stated by the appellant that in the

enquiry report there is only one reference to Shirish Shah which states that Shirish

Shah, remisier of Unique (another broker) had fradulently traded on behalf of Ms.

Indumati Goda and her daughter in law Ms. Trusha Goda. In paragraph 3 of the

fresh show cause notice, reproduced above, the allegation of fraud has been

pleaded but no material/particulars or details of the fraud have been provided as to

how and in what manner Shirish Shah had committed fraud on Indumati Goda

and on her daughter in law and how the appellant is connected to the fraud

committed by Shirish Shah. The appellant again reiterated its request for

furnishing copies of the order / trade logs and also sought permission to cross-

examine Indumati Goda. The whole time member of the Board, after considering

the material on record, rejected the preliminary objection and request of the

appellant for cross-examining Indumati Goda and held him guilty of violating the

provisions of 4 (a), (b), (c) and (d) of the FUTP regulations and also Clause A (2)

to (5) of the code of conduct under the stockbrokers regulations and, by the order

dated December 27, 2011, suspended certificate of registration of the appellant for

a period of one month. Hence the present appeal. 6. We have heard the learned counsel for the parties at length. They have

taken us through the records of the case, placed before us certain

judgments/orders stated to be relevant to the points on issue and taken us through

the relevant provisions of the Act and the regulations. The appellant has been

found to be guilty of violating the provisions of regulation 4 of the FUTP

regulations on the ground that all the four brokers including the appellant had

followed the common pattern of circular trading which also indicates

synchronization in placing of orders thereby creating artificial volume in the scrip

of the company which resulted in increasing the price of the scrip. It is nobody's

case that the trades executed were not circular in nature. Since the trades

executed were circular in nature and were executed on 38 consecutive trading

days among the four brokers, the whole time member has jumped to the

conclusion that there was connivance of the noticee with its counter party brokers

and hence the trades are manipulated. No doubt, circular/synchronized trades

were executed and the Board initiated action against the brokers and the clients

including the appellant. What we have to see is when the appellant is being

charged with fraud what is the evidence direct or circumstantial, against him on

record to show that either he was party to the fraud or he knew that other

brokers/clients are playing fraud or some mischief leading to commission of fraud

thereby violating the provisions of the FUTP regulations. The only finding

recorded by the whole time member is that in view of the repeated trades day after

day one might conclude that the appellant had knowledge of the fraud. This

Tribunal has been consistently holding that violation of FUTP regulations

involves commission of fraud which is indeed a serious market offence and a high

degree of probablity is required to establish such a charge. There has to be

enough material on record to show that the broker had knowledge of the game

plan at the time of executing the trade or the trading pattern of the client gives rise

to some suspicion about the mischief. Merely because the appellant acted as a

broker of one of the parties, it does not follow that he was a party to the game

plan of the client in executing matching trades. The foundation of enquiry under 8 enquiry regulations is a valid notice and also that the charge levelled therein has

to be clear, precise and unambiguious so that the dilinquent knows what exactly

he is charged with. The whole time member appears to have jumped to the

conclusion that merely because circular trades were executed on 38 days by the

appellant, his intention was manipulative. This finding is based on no material on

record and it appears that the whole time member has not appreciated the concept

of circular/synchronised trades. Admittedly, the trades in question were executed

by the clients and the appellant was acting only as a broker. It has not entered

into any proprietory trades. If there is some evidence or material available on

record that the appellant knew that the trades were fictitious then there would be

no hesitation in upholding the finding of the Board. However, there is no such

link available either on the record or any finding to this effect has been recorded

by the whole time member. There is no material on record to show that the

appellant, as a broker knew, that the trades were circular/synchronised. There are

no findings that either the broker and their clients were connected persons or they

were acting in concert. Trading was through the exchange mechanism and was

online where the code number of the broker alone is known and it is not possible

for anyone to know from the screen as to who the clients are. Merely because the

appellant acted as a broker it cannot be concluded that he must have known about

the transactions. There has to be more material on record to prove that fact.

While drawing the inference that the appellant must have known about the nature

of the transaction, the Board could have made enquiries from the clients which it

has failed to do. Mr. Shiraz Rustomjee, learned senior counsel for the respondent

Board, very streneously urged before us that a trade cannot match on the screen of

the exchange without active connivance of the broker. The trades matched on 38

trading days and such matching cannot be a matter of coincidence. In support of

his argument learned senior counsel for the Board relied on the order of this

Tribunal in the case of Ajmera Associate Pvt. Ltd. vs. SEBI (Appeal no. 13 of

2007 decided on 5.2.2008) which has also been relied upon by the whole time

member in the impugned order. Counsel has also placed reliance on the order of 9 this Tribunal in the case of Triumph International Finance Ltd. vs. SEBI (Appeal no. 35 of 2002 decided on 4.5.2007). He particularly emphasised the following

observations of the Tribunal:- 7. The submission made by learned senior counsel for the Board may not

be wholly correct. There can be a variety of reasons for the trades matching on

the screen of the exchange. Merely because a trade has matched both in regard to

price and quantity and that the buy and sell orders were placed at the same time it

cannot lead to the conclusion that the broker had knowledge of fictitious trades

being executed between the buyer and the seller. It has been observed by this

Tribunal in a number of cases that on a screen based trading system, it is not

possible for a broker to know who the counter party is at the time when the trades

are executed. The case of Triumph International Finance Ltd., relied upon by the

Board, is distinguishable as it was categorically admitted in that case that in all

the trades the buyers and the sellers were Ketan Parekh entities who were found

guilty of executing manipulative trades and had been proceeded against by the

Board. The appellant was also found to be a close associate of Ketan Parekh and 10 his investment/broking companies. The Board has not brought any material on

record in the case in hand proving any nexus between the appellant and the other

broker entities or the clients. Even in the case of Ajmera (supra) this Tribunal has

observed that merely because the two clients have executed matched trades, it

does not follow that their brokers were necessarily a party to the game plan. Following the decision in the case of Kasat Securities Pvt. Ltd. vs. SEBI (Appeal no. 27 of 2006 decided on 20.6.2006), this Tribunal has held in a number of cases

including in the case of Bipin R. Vora vs. SEBI (Appeal no. 62 of 2006 decided

on 13.9.2007), M. J. Patel Shares and Stockbrokers Ltd. vs. SEBI (Appeal no. 157

of 2004 decided on 17.7.2006) that merely because the appellant acted as a broker

of one of the parties, it does not follow that he was a party to the game plan of the

client in executing the matched trades. In the case of Ramaben Samani Finance

Pvt. Ltd. vs. SEBI (Appeal no. 91 of 2006 decided on 22.10.2007), the Tribunal

has specifically observed that there has to be enough material on record to show

that the broker knew about the game plan at the time of executing the trade.

Therefore, if a broker has to be attributed knowledge of circular/synchronized

trades, the Board must have with it some material on record from which such

knowledge can be inferred. Merely because the appellant has acted as a broker it

cannot lead us to the conclusion that he had knowledge of the wrong doing. It is

true that the trades have been found to be circular/synchronized, but there is

nothing on record to show that the appellant had knowledge of the manipulative

intent or mischief of the client. While dealing with an idential situation, this

Tribunal has made following observations in the case of Kasat Securities Pvt. Ltd.

vs. SEBI (Appeal no. 27 of 2006 decided on 29.6.2006):- 8. It has been specifically pleaded by the appellant that during the

investigation period, i.e. in the year 2002, there was no software available for

carrying out long or real time surveillance and it was not possible to carry out

surveillance of thousands of transactions of all clients on a daily basis. It has also

been pleaded by the appellant that the impugned trades in the scrip of the

company were done on behalf of its clients and the intra day trading was the

normal/usual pattern of the trading adopted by the said client. The appellant had

not entered into any proprietory trades in the scrip. It is a matter of record that

there were positive media reports regarding the said company and the financial

performance of the company had shown good results. Therefore, the appellant

had no reason to suspect any irregularity in the increase in the price of the scrip.

The client had been regularly trading in the same fashion in as many as 26

different scrips and, since inception, the client's trading pattern was primarily by

way of day trading whereby she bought and sold equal quantities in respective

scrips in the course of the day. All payments were made from her bank account

and even for her delivery based trades, deliveries were made from her demat

account. These are all relevant submissions made by the appellant which have

been totally ignored by the whole time member while passing the impugned

order. Under the circumstances, we are of the considered view that the Board has

failed to establish the charge of fraud as alleged. 9. There is another reason as to why the charge cannot sustain. In the first

round of litigation, while passing the order of June 21, 2011, this Tribunal had

specifically observed that the charge of aiding and abetting the client cannot be

upheld against the appellatn because the client has been exonerated of the charge

on the ground that one Shirish Shah had frudulently executed the trades on behalf

of Indumati Goda. We find almost identical finding has been given by the whole

time member in the impugned order also when he observed that Shirish Shah has

executed the manipulative trades with the active connivance of the appellant or "if

one generously thinks aided by the negligence of the noticee". Shri P. N. Modi,

learned counsel for the appellant has placed on record a copy of the order passed

by the whole time member of the Board against Shirish Shah in which, Shirish

Shah has been found guilty of executing circular trades. But no evidence has

been brought on record to show that the appellant knew the manipulative intent of

Shirish Shah or both were acting in concert. The fact that the appellant was never

in contact with Ms. Indumati Goda makes no difference for the reasons that at the

relevant time there was no law, rules, regulations or orders that required that a

broker must collect the registration form only by requiring client to personally

come to the broker's office and submit the same. It is the appellant's case that the

client's registration form alongwith prescribed KYC documents including proof

of identity and number of particulars were collected. It is no case of the Board

that KYC norms were not followed by the appellant at the relevant time. In this

view of the matter, we are unable to agree with the findings of the whole time

member that the appellant had connived with Shirish Shah or was negligent in

executing the trades. These findings of the whole time member are not supported

by any material on record. 10. Learned counsel for the appellant had also challenged the order on the

ground of violation of principles of natural justice as copies of the order/trade logs

were not provided to it and, inspite of request made, the appellant was not 13 afforded an opportunity to cross-examine Ms. Indumati Goda. In its reply dated

November 21, 2011 to the show cause notice the appellant had specifically stated

that it has not been "furnished with the documents or material which would show

or imply that Ms. Indumati Goda or her daughter in law, Ms. Trusha Goda have

disputed or denied the said trades." It was further stated that the charges are

fundamentally based on allegation that Mr. Shirish Shah had fraudulently traded

on behalf of Ms. Indumati Goda. The appellant contended that no particulars or

details of the alleged fraud have been disclosed and the appellant had not been

given an opportunity to cross-examine Ms. Indumati Goda. The whole time

member of the Board, while passing the impugned order, has rejected these

contentions of the appellant observing that trade logs have been supplied to the

appellant and that no document which has not been provided to the noticee is

being relied upon in the proceeding. However, we notice that what has been

provided to the appellant with the show cause notice is not copy of the trade logs.

The annexure to the show cause notice provides only trading pattern of the four

brokers and not the trade logs. Admittedly, the order logs were not provided

although the appellant requested for the same. This, in our view, has caused

prejudice to the appellant in making a proper representation. The whole time

member of the Board has also observed that the request of the noticee to

cross-examine Ms. Induamati Goda is not maintainable because, "SEBI has not

solely relied on the submission of Ms. Indumati Goda and the facts of the case

have been independently verified". On this count also, we are of the considered

view that the whole time member has failed to comply with the principles of

natural justice. Learned senior counsel for the Board stated before us that no

prejudice is caused to the appellant by not providing order/trade logs as the details

of the trading pattern were provided to the appellant alongwith the show cause

notice. In support of this argument leaned senior counsel relied on the judgment

of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Haryana Financial Corporation

and Anr. Vs. Kailash Chandra Ahuja [(2008) 9 SCC 31]. We have perused

the said judgemnt. This judgment basically lays down the proposition that if there 14 is no prejudice caused to a delinquent employee due to non-supply of inquiry

report then the order of punishment cannot be set aside merely on the ground that

no copy of enquiry officer's report was supplied. This case also refers to the

various earlier decisions given by the Supreme Court on the same issue and the

position was summarized by the Court as under:- In this judgment itself, the Court has restated the principles of natural justice and

indicated that they are flexible and in the recent time, they had undergone a sea

change. If there is no prejudice to the employee, an action cannot be set aside

merely on the ground that no hearing was afforded before taking decision by the

authority. The non observance of the natural justice is itself prejudice to any man

and proof of prejudice independent of proof of denial of natural justice is

unnecessary. While passing the impugned order the whole time member has

observed that "SEBI has not solely relied upon the submission of Ms.

Indumati Goda" (emphasis supplied). This observation itself indicates that there

were certain submissions made by Ms. Indumati Goda which have been taken into

consideration but the appellant has not been provided either with the copies of

those submissions or afforded an opportunity to cross-examine Ms. Indumati

Goda. This is in violation of principles of natural justice. This Tribunal has been

consistently holding that the best way to prove circular/synchronised trades is to

have a look at the order/trade logs. In the absence of copies of order/trade logs,

the appellant has been denied a chance of proper defence. We have no hesitation

in holding that the appeal must succeed even on the ground that while holding 15 enquiry against the appellant, the Board has not followed the principles of natural

justice by not providing it with copies of the order/trade logs and denying it copy

of submissions made by Ms. Indumati Goda and an opportunity to cross-examine

her. For the reasons stated above we are of the considered view that the

whole time member of the Board has failed to bring home the charge against the

appellant of violating regulation 4 of the FUTP regualtions and the code of

conduct under the stockbrokers regulations. We, therefore, set aside the

impugned order and allow the appeal with no order as to costs. Sd/- P. K. Malhotra
 Member &
 Presiding Officer (Offg.)

 Sd/- S. S. N. Moorthy
 Member

19.06.2012
Prepared & Compared by
ptm