These appeals are directed against the order dated

14.06.2019 passed by Commercial Court in Com.AS

Nos.203, 204, 205 and 206/2018 whereunder

interlocutory applications filed in the said suits i.e.,

I.A.No.1 under Section 5 of the Limitation Act, 1963 (for

short '1963 Act') came to be rejected by the trial Court

and consequently dismissed the suits as barred by

limitation. 2. The pivotal point involved in these appeals

is: 3. Facts in brief which has lead to filing of

these appeals are crystalised as under and parties are

referred to as per their rank before the Commercial

Court: Challenging the said award, appellant herein filed suit

under Section 34 of the Act on 12.10.2018 with a prayer

to set aside the award dated 20.03.2018. Along with

said suit an interlocutory application under Section 5 the Limitation Act 1963 (hereinafter referred to as 1963

Act) was filed seeking condonation of delay of 101 days.

Said application was supported by the affidavit of Chief

General Manager (Projects) and followed by additional

affidavit of in-charge Chief General Manager (Projects)

whereunder appellant sought to explain the cause for

delay contending that the then Law Officer had

fraudulently acted resulting in appellant not filing

appeal within the period prescribed under the Act and

as such sought for condonation of delay. Said

application came to be resisted to by the first

respondent herein by filing the objections, which came 13 to be considered by the trial Court and by order under

challenge dated 14.06.2019 dismissed the applications

under Section 5 of the 1963 Act by opining that proviso

to sub-section (3) of Section 34 does not enable the said

Court to condone the delay by extending Section 5 of

the 1963 Act and consequently dismissed the suits.

Hence, these appeals. 4. We have heard the arguments of

Sri.S.S.Naganand, learned Senior Counsel appearing on

behalf of Sri.S.Sriranga for appellants and

Sri.L.M.Chidanandayya, learned counsel appearing for

respondent No.1. Notice to respondent No.2 is

dispensed with, since no relief is claimed against second

respondent and he being the sole arbitrator constituting

arbitral tribunal and being a formal party. 5. It is the contention of Sri.S.S.Naganand,

learned Senior Counsel appearing for appellants that 14 learned trial Judge committed a serious error in

dismissing the application on the premise that Section 5 of the 1963 Act would be inapplicable without

considering the effect and rigour of Section 17 as well as Section 29 of the 1963 Act and in a case where fraud

has been perpetrated, it would vitiate the entire

proceedings and as such it cannot be gainsaid by the

beneficiary of such order or award to contend that

provisions of Section 5 of 1963 Act would be

inapplicable. He would elaborate his submission by

contending that act of fraud or deliberate deception with

an evil desire of securing unfair advantage over other, is

a ground on which the proceedings gets vitiated and as

such provisions of Section 5 would definitely be

applicable and non consideration of this material aspect

by the learned trial Judge has resulted in impugned

order. He would further contend that the provisions of Section 5 of the 1963 Act has to be necessarily read in 15 conjunction with Section 17 of the 1963 Act and he

would draw the attention of Court to Section 43 of the

Arbitration Act to assert that provisions of 1963 Act

would apply to arbitration proceedings and as such Section 5 of 1963 Act applies to the proceedings before

trial Court in a proceedings initiated under Section 34 of the Act also. 6. He would submit that learned trial Judge

without discussing the applicability of ratio laid down

by the Apex Court in the matter of P.RADHA BAI vs.

P.ASHOK KUMAR reported in 2018 SCC ONLINE SC

1670 has simply relied on the said judgment , which

would not be attracted in the peculiar circumstances of

the present case and he prays for allowing the appeals

and prays for setting aside the order under challenge

and also by allowing applications filed under Section 5 of the 1963 Act and restoring the suits for being

adjudicated on merits. He would also contend that in a 16 given case where fraud is pleaded the burden is on the

person who pleads to prove said fact and as such trial

ought to have been conducted and parties should be

granted liberty to tender evidence in support of their

claims and drawing analogy from the same, he would

submit that in the facts obtained it would clearly

indicate that Law Officer of the appellant company had

not put up the file within timeframe so as to enable the

appellant to file the appeals within prescribed period

and as a result genuine claim or the grievance of

appellant has been nipped at the bud, as a result of

which appellant has initiated action against the Law

Officer by not only issuing show cause notices but also

initiating proceedings by setting into motion the

criminal law, whereunder First Information Report is

registered in Crime No.60/2018 before the Vidhana

Soudha Police Station, which prima facie established

the plea of appellant is genuine and as such delay ought 17 to have been condoned or alternatively appellant should

have been permitted to tender evidence in that regard.

He would contend these aspects though highlighted and

brought to the notice of learned trial Judge, it has not

received the attention which it ought to have, and

thereby prayer of the appellant has been rejected

without going into the merits and as such he submits

that if for any reason this Court were to arrive at a

conclusion that appellant has to establish fraud, an

opportunity be extended to the appellant to lead

evidence in this regard by remitting the applications to

trial court for being adjudicated afresh after setting

aside the order under challenge. In support of his

submission he has relied upon following judgments: It reads: 11. There cannot be any dispute to the

proposition of law that no litigant would stand to benefit

by approaching the Courts belatedly. While examining 25 an application for delay it is not the length of delay but

the cause for delay, which would be of paramount

consideration. If the cause shown is sufficient and

within the proximity of truth, then necessarily it will be

condoned by accepting the cause for delay. However, if

the cause shown is insufficient such delay would not be

condoned. For this proposition, support can be taken

by the view expressed by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the

matter of COLLECTOR, LAND ACQUISITION,

ANANTNAG AND ANOTHER VS MASTER KATIJI AND

OTHERS reported in AIR 1987 SC 1353 whereunder

their Lordships have held: does not mean that a pedantic approach
should be made. Why not every hour's
delay, every second's delay? The doctrine
must be applied in a rational common
sense pragmatic manner. 4. When substantial justice and technical
considerations are pitted against each
other, cause of substantial justice
deserves to be preferred for the other
side cannot claim to have vested right in
injustice being done because of a non-
deliberate delay. 5. There is no presumption that delay is
occasioned deliberately, or on account of
culpable negligence, or on account of
malafides. A litigant does not stand to
benefit by resorting to delay. In fact he
runs a serious risk. 6. It must be grasped that judiciary is
respected not on account of its power
to legalize injustice on technical grounds
but because it is capable of removing
injustice and is expected to do so. Making a justice-oriented approach
from this perspective, there was sufficient
cause for condoning the delay in the
institution of the appeal. The fact that it
was the 'State' which was seeking
condonation and not a private party
was altogether irrelevant. The doctrine of
equality before law demands that all
litigants, including the State as a litigant,
are accorded the same treatment and the
law is administered in an even-handed
manner. There is no warrant for according
a step motherly treatment when the
'State' is the applicant praying for
condonation of delay. In fact experience
shows that on account of an impersonal
machinary (no one in charge of the
matter is directly hit or hurt by the
judgment sought to be subjected to
appeal) and the inherited bureaucratic
methodology imbued with the note- making, file pushing, and passing-on-
the-buck ethos, delay on its part is less 28 difficult to understand though more
 difficult to approve. In any event, the
 State which represents the collective
 cause of the community, does not deserve
 a litigant-non-grata status. The Courts
 therefore have to be informed with the
 spirit and philosophy of the provision in
 the course of the interpretation of the
 expression "sufficient cause". So also the
 same approach has to be evidenced in its
 application to matters at hand with the
 end in view to do even-handed justice on
 merits in preference to the approach
 which scuttles a decision on merits.
 Turning to the facts of the matter giving
 rise to the present appeal, we are satisfied
 that sufficient cause exists for the delay.
 The order of the High Court dismissing
 the appeal before it as time barred, is
 therefore, set aside. Delay is condoned.
 And the matter is remitted to the High
 Court. The High Court will now dispose of
 the appeal on merits after affording
 reasonable opportunity of hearing to both
 the sides". 12. It is also axiomatic that in the case of

appeals being preferred by the Government or its

instrumentalities the bureaucratic lethargy would

always be there and impersonal machinery of the State

within which such officers work also has to be taken 29 note of. Usual rigmarole attitude of the officials of

pushing the files from table to table and keeping the

said file on the table for long number of days either

intentionally or otherwise, is also an issue which will

have to be taken into consideration while considering an

application for condonation of delay. In this regard,

judgment of Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of STATE OF

NAGALAND vs. LIPOK AO AND OTHERS reported in AIR

2005 SUPREME COURT 2191 can be noticed with

benefit whereunder it has been held: It is in this background Hon'ble Apex Court has

observed that certain amount of latitude is not

impermissible while considering an application for

condonation of delay. 13. Keeping these sound and salutary principles laid down by Hon'ble Apex Court in mind when we look

into facts of the present case, we will have to necessarily

examine as to whether provisions of the Limitation Act 1963 namely, Sections 4 to 29 would be applicable to

the proceedings under the Arbitration and Conciliation

Act, 1996 or not. In order to examine this facet, we 32 have formulated the point for consideration at the

beginning and to answer the said question, it would be

apt and appropriate to note sub-section (3) of Section 34

and proviso thereto of 1996 Act together with relevant

sections of 1963 Act, which may have bearing on our

discussion namely, Sections 2(j) , 4 , 17 and 29 of 1963

Act reads: Explanation.-- A court shall be
 deemed to be closed on any day within the
 meaning of this section if during any part 33 of its normal working hours it remains
closed on that day. 17. Effect of fraud or mistake.--(1)
Where, in the case of any suit or
application for which a period of limitation
is prescribed by this Act,-- (a) the suit or application is based
 upon the fraud of the defendant or
 respondent or his agent; or (b) the knowledge of the right or title
 on which a suit or application is
 founded is concealed by the fraud of
 any such person as aforesaid; or (c) the suit or application is for relief
 from the consequences of a mistake;
 or (d) where any document necessary
 to establish the right of the plaintiff
 or applicant has been fraudulently
 concealed from him, the period of
 limitation shall not begin to run
 until plaintiff or applicant has
 discovered the fraud or the mistake
 or could, with reasonable diligence,
 have discovered it; or in the case of
 a concealed document, until the
 plaintiff or the applicant first had
 the means of producing the
 concealed document or
 compelling its production: Provided
 that nothing in this section shall
 enable any suit to be instituted or
 application to be made to recover or
 enforce any charge against, or set 34 aside any transaction affecting, any
 property which-- (i) in the case of fraud, has been
 purchased for valuable
 consideration by a person who was
 not a party to the fraud and did not
 at the time of the purchase know, or
 have reason to believe, that any
 fraud had been committed, or (ii) in the case of mistake, has been
 purchased for valuable
 consideration subsequently to the
 transaction in which the mistake
 was made, by a person who did not
 know, or have reason to believe, that
 the mistake had been made, or iii) in the case of a concealed
 document, has been purchased for
 valuable consideration by a person
 who was not a party to the
 concealment and, did not at the
 time of purchase know, or have
 reason to believe, that the document
 had been concealed. (2) Where a judgment-debtor has, by fraud
or force, prevented the execution of a
decree or order within the period of
limitation, the court may, on the
application of the judgment-creditor made
after the expiry of the said period extend
the period for execution of the decree or
order: Provided that such application is
made within one year from the date of the
discovery of the fraud or the cessation of
force, as the case may be. 29. Savings.--(1) Nothing in this Act shall
 affect section 25 of the Indian Contract
 Act, 1872 (9 of 1872). (2) Where any special or local law
 prescribes for any suit, appeal or
 application a period of limitation different
 from the period prescribed by the
 Schedule, the provisions of section 3 shall
 apply as if such period were the period
 prescribed by the Schedule and for the
 purpose of determining any period of
 limitation prescribed for any suit, appeal
 or application by any special or local law,
 the provisions contained in sections 4 to 24 (inclusive) shall apply only in so far as,
 and to the extent to which, they are not
 expressly excluded by such special or local
 law. (3) Save as otherwise provided in any law
 for the time being in force with respect to
 marriage and divorce, nothing in this Act
 shall apply to any suit or other proceeding
 under any such law. (4) Sections 25 and 26 and the definition
 of "easement" in section 2 shall not apply
 to cases arising in the territories to which
 the Indian Easements Act, 1882 (5 of
 1882), may for the time being extend." 14. In the instant case provisions of Section 5 of

the 1963 Act has been pressed into service to contend

that there is a delay of 101 days in filing the suits for 36 setting aside the awards and same has to be condoned.

Cause sought to be given for said delay was on account

of alleged fraudulent acts perpetrated by the then Law

Officer of appellant-company. We have already

extracted the allegations made against said Law Officer

and appellant is attempting to take umbrage for

condoning the delay on the ground of fraud. However,

we notice from paragraph 3 of the additional affidavit

dated 01.01.2019 that appellant has categorically

admitted to have received the award on 02.04.2018. In

fact, it is also admitted by the appellant that after one

(1) month AGM (DDUGJY) forwarded the certified copy

of the award along with file to the Law Officer on

02.05.2018. Thus, said officer had retained the file for

one (1) month and no reasons are forthcoming from the

affidavit as to why said officer had kept the file with him

without forwarding it to the Law Officer and nothing is

placed with regard to action taken against him in the 37 affidavit nor in this appeal for the reasons best known

to the appellant. 15. Be that as it may, issue of fraud having been

pleaded and Section 17 of Act 1963 having been pressed

into service, we have noticed that there cannot be any

dispute to the proposition that fraud vitiates all acts

and judgments of the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of

HAMZA HAJI vs. STATE OF KERALA AND ANOTHER

reported in (2006) 7 SCC 416, MEGHMALA AND OTHERS

vs. G. NARASIMHA REDDY AND OTHERS reported in (2010)

8 SCC 383 and in the case of SANJU JAL VIDYUT NIGAM

vs. RAJ KUMAR RAJINDER SINGH reported in (2018) SCC

Online SC 1636 can be looked up whereunder Apex

Court in its authoritative pronouncement has held that

fraud vitiates all acts and proceedings taken pursuant

to it. 16. A plain reading of sub-section (1) of Section

17 of the Act would indicate that where in the case of

any suit or application for which a period of limitation is

prescribed by the Act, same would not begin to run

unless such fraud has been discovered or the mistake

with reasonable diligence could have discovered. In

other words, for pressing into service Section 17 of the

Act the condition precedent is that limitation prescribed

under 1963 Act alone would be of paramount

consideration and not the limitation prescribed under a

special statute. In fact, the expression "period of

limitation" as defined under Section 2(j) is a complete

answer to this. A plain reading of above expression or

definition would clearly indicate that it would mean the

period of limitation as prescribed for any suit, appeal or

application by the schedule and computation of such

period would be in accordance with the provisions of

1963 Act and not the limitation prescribed under a 39 special statute. In fact, sub-section (2) of Section 29 excludes applicability of Sections 4 to 24 (inclusive) of

Limitation Act except to the extent they are specifically

provided under the special statute or local law or in

other words, period of limitation prescribed under such Special Act alone would be applicable. It would be apt

and appropriate to note with benefit the law laid down

by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the matter of STATE OF

GOA vs. WESTERN BUILDERS reported in (2006) 6

SCC 239 whereunder it has been held by virtue of Section 29(2) of the Limitation Act if any other period is

prescribed under the special enactment then that period

of limitation as prescribed under the Special Law will

govern the limitation and not the provisions of the Limitation Act, 1963 . It has been further held that by

virtue of Section 29(2) of the Limitation Act what is

excluded in respect of application for setting aside the

award under Section 34 of the Act is the applicability of 40 Section 5 and Section 3 r/w Schedule to the Limitation

Act, 1963 . It has been held by the Apex Court to the

following effect: 22. However, with regard to delay in
filing objection before the Principal Civil
Court of original jurisdiction, this Court
directed that the petitioner shall file
objection for setting aside the award
before the court concerned within 30 days
from this date; the delay in regard to filing
of the petition as contemplated under Section 34 of the Act, 1996 shall be
condoned by the said court since the time
consumed was bona fide in prosecution of
its remedy." 17. From the plain reading of sub-section (3) of Section 34 of the Arbitration Act, 1996, it is clear and

unambiguous that law makers have consciously

prescribed the limitation for filing a suit for setting aside

the award passed by the arbitral tribunal and it would

further indicate the limitation so prescribed in all is 120

days namely an aggrieved party would be entitled to

challenge the award by filing an application to set aside

the award and same cannot be made after three (3)

months have elapsed from the date on which party

making application had received the arbitral award or, if

a request had been made under Section 33, from the

date on which such request has been disposed of by

arbitral tribunal. Further 30 days is also permitted

under proviso to Section 34(3) if the applicant is able to

satisfy the Court that despite due diligence it was

prevented by sufficient cause from making the

application within the said period of three (3) months. 43 In other words, jurisdictional Court would get power to

condone the delay only upto 120 days and not beyond

said period. In fact interpretation of Section 5 r/w Section 17 of Limitation Act as well as Section 34(3) of

Arbitration Act, 1996 came up for consideration before

the Hon'ble Apex Court in the matter of P.RADHA BAI

AND OTHERS vs. P.ASHOK KUMAR AND ANOTHER reported in 2018 SCC ONLINE SC 1670 whereunder

Apex Court has held to the effect that limitation

provision under section 34(3) provides for condonation

of delay only to that extent and unlike Section 5 of 1963

Act which enables the Court to condone the delay even

beyond the prescribed period of limitation. It has been

held that expression or phrase "but not thereafter" (Emphasis supplied by us) 18. Further in the matter of SIMPLEX

INFRASTRUCTURE LIMITED vs. UNION OF INDIA reported in (2019) 2 SCC 455 Hon'ble Apex Court has

in unequivocal terms by its authoritative

pronouncement has held that provisions of Section 14 of the Limitation Act does not provide for applicability of Section 5 of the 1963 Act to the awards passed under

1996 Act. In that view of the matter, we find that there

is no infirmity or illegality committed by the trial Court

in rejecting the application for condonation of delay. For the reasons aforestated, we proceed to pass

the following: Consequently, I.A.No.1/2019 for stay filed in

respective appeals would not survive for consideration

and they stand dismissed. SD/- JUDGE

 SD/- JUDGE

DR