K.C. Ganjwal, Member 1. The Union of India through Secretary, Min. of Company Affairs, Shastri Bhawan, New Delhi has filed this petition under Section 237 of the Companies Act, 1956 seeking investigation into the affairs of M/s Mukta Arts Ltd. and Ors. M/s Mukta Arts Ltd. was incorporated on 7.9.1982 as a private limited company and was convened into a public limited company wef 15.3.2000, having its Regd. Office at Bandra, Mumbai. The main object of the company is to carry on the business of manufacture, producers, exhibitors and distributors of Cinematographic Films and Pictures etc. 2. The company is presently carrying on the business of production of films, TV Cereals and Music in addition to the hiring out of its equipment to other film makes for the purpose of production and post production work. 3. The learned counsel for petitioner submitted that the inspection of the respondent company was ordered by Deptt. of Company Affairs vide letter No. 3/75/2001/CL-II dated 13.6.2001 and the inspecting officer has submitted his report. Some of the contraventions/irregularities on the respondent company as pointed in the inspection report are: 4. The small investor production forum made a complaint in April, 2001 indicating that the respondent company had a common the through Trumph International Finance India Ltd. and in famous Ketan. Parekh Group Company and they were involved in price manipulation of shares . A copy of the complaint has been placed on record which alleges the following points:- 5. The company is a film production company and has large dealings with Ketan Parekh Group, who is involved in the latest share market scam. The company made a bonus issue in 2000 in the ratio of 1649 shares for every equity share. The management issued 82,45,000 bonus shares. The company made public issue of bonus shares at the rate of Rs. 165 per share on the face value of Rs. 5 per share. As per balance sheet of the company as on 31.12.2000, the huge funds of the company was used primarily in share market during the scam period and huge investments worth Rs. 83,41,34,776 were made in the shares of certain companies, which is not the main object of the respondent company. Shri Bharat Shah was the director of the company from 24.3.2000 to 16.4.2001 and he was arrested being involved and linked with underworld for anti national activities. The sales of the company came down from 2357 lakhs to 1008 lakhs in 2000. 6. The learned counsel for petitioner submitted that the management has conducted the business of the company, with intent to defraud its creditors, members etc. In a fraudulent and unlawful manner, which is oppressive to the members of the company. In view of the above averments, it is prayed that enquiry under Section 237 of the Companies Act, 1956 be ordered to investigate the affairs of the respondent company. 7. The Learned counsel for respondent in reply submitted that the inspection of company was ordered under Section 209A of the Companies Act 1956 in June, 2001 The company received a letter from Regional Director, Western Region, Mumbai hsung discrepancies/violation/irregularities noticed by the inspecting officer. The respondent company replied in detail the comments and explanations vide letter dated 17.1.2002. It is submitted that report of the inspection is not received by the company, hence, the content of the same are not known. However, Assistant Registrar of Companies has issued various notices which are already replied and the matter is subjudice. As regard planning of initial public offer (IPO), the respondent company has decided and planned IPO in a very systematic manner and nothing was done in hurried manners. The draft offer document was approved/sanctioned by the authorities which was finally released on 1.8.2000. The offer document had all the details including project cost and means of finance. The offer issued by respondent company was oversubscribed. Dealing with issue of bonus shares, the learned counsel for respondent submitted that the issue of bonus shares was passed in the meeting of shareholders held on 22.1.2000 and there was no violation in the issue of bonus shares. The appointment of Shri Bharat Shah as Additional Director was from 24.3.2000. As no notice was received from any shareholder proposing the candidature of Mr. Bharat Shah, he ceased to be a director after Annual General Meeting held on 16.4.2001. During the tenure of Shri Bharat Shah 8 Board Meetings were held but he was not present in any of the meetings and thus no participation in the management. His arrest and case is still sub-judice. 8. The learned counsel for respondent dealing with relationship with Ketan Parekh Group of Companies submitted that there is no direct nexus between the Shri Ketan Pareh share broker and the respondent company. The Triumph International Financial India Ltd. offered their services and they were appointed Lead Manager/Merchant Broker and agreement was aggregated to this effect on 31.3.2000. As on 30.1.2001, the following shares were held by Ketan Parekh Group of Companies:- 9. All the transactions in the shares of the company by Ketan Group of Companies have been in public issue or through Stock Exchange or between shareholders of the company in the normal course of business. There was no direct transaction of the company in Ketan Group by dealing in shares. The payment made to Triumph International Finance India Ltd. was an ordinary course of busines as per agreement. 10. The respondent company did make of Rs. 83,41,34,776 in the share of certain companies which is not its main object. After stocks scam of March 2001, the value of investment has gone down. The company never used any funds in share market. The respondent company has no demat account and not a single transaction of share purchase from the market of any listed company was done from the date of incorporation from the company. The unutilized funds are invested in mutual funds. It is true that the authorized share capital of the respondent company was Rs. 5 lakhs and paid up capital was Rs. 50,000 as on 31.12.1999. The reserves and surplus as on 31.12.1999 was Rs. 12,13,52,593 and the authorized share capital was increased to Rs. 11 crores on 22.1.2000. the authorized share capital was further increased to Rs. 12 crores on 8.3.2000. Out of these reserves, the bonus shares were issued. Although it is well known fact that black money moves freely from underworld to the film world and vice versa and the statement made by the petitioner is vague and frivolous. The sale of the company came down from Rs. 2357 lakhs to Rs. 1008 lakhs in 2000 for the reason that in the entertainment and film production business, the production of films takes more than one year. All the revenues are accounted in the year of release of the film. When there are no new films the revenue is generated to the old films/DVD/VCD rights.The irregularities pointed/violations pointed out by the Registrar of Companies have already been replied and suitable action taken. 11. .It is submitted that the submissions made herein clearly establishes that there is no case made out invoking the provisions fog Section 237 and therefore the relief sought in the petition need not be granted. 12. I have gone through the averments of this case and oral arguments advanced by learned counsel of both sides. The inspection conducted by the Inspecting Officer of Ministry of Company, Affairs under Section 209A points out certain irregularities and violations of the provisions of the Companies Act , for which necessary action has been initiated by the Registrar of Companies against the respondent company. The case of the petitioner is that the respondent company has connections with various group companies of Ketan Parekh Group and there was also a complaint by the small investor protection forum . The learned counsel for respondent submitted that whatever shares have been purchased by these companies which form part of the Ketan Parekh Group, have been purchased through Stock Exchange or public issue or between shareholders of the company in the normal course of business . There are no direct transactions by the company and the Ketan Group for dealing with these shares. The respondents have also forwarded copies of Index of folios of shares which have been purchased by various parties from time to time. It is difficult to make out any proposition out of this huge papers submitted by the respondents. 13. As I have already said that the irregularities/violations of the provisions of the Companies Act have already been taken care by the Registrar of Companies but some revealing propositions comes out from the documents and averments of this case. The company was incorporated as early as in 1982 and since then the authorized share capital was Rs. 5 lakhs and paid up capital was Rs. 15,000 as on 13.12.1999 but huge investments in share capital have been made within a short spell of 3 to 4 months. It is also admitted position that the company made investment of Rs. 83,41,00,000 in the shares of the certain companies when the main object of the company is not to enter the business in share market. The lead to value of huge investment going down after stock scam took place in March, 2001. It is also interested to note that within a spell of two months the authorized capital was raised first from 50,000 to Rs. 11 crores and there after to Rs. 12 crores . The genesis and origin of this huge funds invested by the respondent company in share market when they were not in the business needs to be probed into. It is difficulte to find from the documents placed on record as to whether there was any relationship in the transactions with the Ketan Parekh Group of Companies or these were the normal transaction of the business. This can only be found out by investigating the matter in depth. 14. in the light of the above discussion, I am inclined to allow the petition. Accordingly, I direct the Central Govt. to undertake the investigation of respondens company under Section 237 of the Companies Act, 1956 and take suitable action on the he report when received. 15. With the above directions the petition stands disposed off. There are no orders as to cost.