ont> 

 12.20 hrs. 

Title: Reported statement made by the Chairman, Joint Parliamentary Committee on Stock Market Scam to the Press. MR. SPEAKER: I have received three notices for Adjournment Motion on different issues. On the problem being faced by the sugarcane growers, the Members were agitated. The notice for Adjournment Motion was given by Shri Akhilesh Singh. Since his leader, Shri Mulayam Singh spoke on this issue, I would request the hon. Minister to take serious cognizance of this. When there is going to be a reply, which was not completed yesterday during the discussion, I have requested the Minister to take this matter also seriously and give the reply on behalf of the Government. … (Interruptions) MR. SPEAKER: The next notice for Adjournment Motion is from Shri E. Ahamed, which is on Tehelka Inquiry. The next notice for Adjournment Motion is from Shri Ramdas Athawale on the privatisation of Centaur Hotel, Mumbai. All these notices, for Adjournment Motions, I have disallowed. But I have permitted the Members to speak. There is also a notice from Shri Dasmunsi regarding the JPC Report. He has suggested for suspension of Question Hour. For this, why Question Hour be suspended? You are allowed to speak. कुंवर अखिलेश सिंह :मैंने भी गन्ना किसानों के विषय में प्रश्न काल स्थगित करने के लिए स्थगन प्रस्ताव का नोटिस दिया है। अध्यक्ष महोदय : मैं आपको भी इजाजत देने वाला हूं। श्री शिवराज सिंह चौहान : मध्य प्रदेश के किसान भूख से मर रहे हैं। इस विषय पर हमें भी बोलने की इजाजत दें। अध्यक्ष महोदय : आपका नोटिस नहीं है। श्री शिवराज सिंह चौहान : हमने शून्य काल का नोटिस दिया है। अध्यक्ष महोदय : तो शून्य काल में बोलिए। मैं तब आपको इजाजत दूंगा। अभी मैं आपको बोलने की इजाजत नहीं दे सकता। …( व्यवधान) अध्यक्ष महोदय : आप लोग बैठिए। हमें प्रश्न काल जल्दी शुरू करना है। SHRI PRIYA RANJAN DASMUNSI ( RAIGANJ ): Sir, if you permit, Shri Mani Shankar Aiyar may please be allowed to speak on my behalf. डॉ. विजय कुमार मल्होत्रा ( दक्षिण दिल्ली ):दासमुंशी जी ने ट्रांसफर करने की बात कही है, वे कैसे ट्रांसफर कर सकते हैं ? उन्होंने प्रश्न काल स्थगित करने की बात कही है, तो बताएं कि इसमें प्रश्न काल क्यों स्थगित किया जा सकता है।…( व्यवधान) How can he transfer his request? … (Interruptions) MR. SPEAKER: I know it cannot be transferred. This is the last day. Therefore, I am treating this differently. … (Interruptions) SHRI MANI SHANKAR AIYAR (MAYILADUTURAI): Mr. Speaker, Sir, as a Member of the JPC, I am shocked that without any authorisation from the JPC, the Chairman has claimed that the Report presented yesterday has given a clean chit to the former Finance Minister, Shri Yashwant Singh. … (Interruptions) The JPC had done nothing of that kind. The Report is replete with indictments of various sins, of omission and commission, on the part of the Ministry of Finance. There can be no Ministry without the Minister. Moreover, it is the Minister, not the officials of the Ministry or the Regulatory Agencies who are responsible to and are accountable to Parliament. We underline that the JPC have deplored the culture of governance which shifts the blame elsewhere. Shri Yaswant Sinha must accept the blame for the protracted, repeated, and diverse lapses of those who reported to him. Moreover, the JPC had detailed how Shri Yaswant Sinha misled the Parliament, both with respect to the payments exchanged in the Kolkatta stock exchange as well as with regard to his claims about the Chairman of UTI, having kept him deliberately in the dark and repeatedly said that everything was hunky dory. In view of the fact that the Chairman of the JPC is a Member of this House, that the former Minister of Finance is also a Member of this House, and that the privileges of the House have been abused by the mis-interpretation, given in the Report by the Chairman of the JPC, we move for suspension of the Question Hour. … (Interruptions) MR. SPEAKER: Only a Member who has given the notice will be allowed. I am sorry the rules of the House cannot be flouted by anybody. … (Interruptions) SHRI PRIYA RANJAN DASMUNSHI : On the day when the Report was Tabled, I only expected to uphold the rich tradition of the House that Shri Yaswant Sinha would resign. … (Interruptions) MR. SPEAKER: On behalf of the Ruling Party I allow Prof. V.K. Malhotra to make it clear whether the Question Hour should be suspended or not. … (Interruptions) MR. SPEAKER: He is speaking on behalf of the Ruling Party. … (Interruptions) DR. VIJAY KUMAR MALHOTRA : Sir, I am opposing the suspension of the Question Hour. … (Interruptions) MR. SPEAKER: Please sit down. … (Interruptions) MR. SPEAKER: He is talking whether the Question Hour be suspended or not. He is not talking on the merits of the case. I am not stopping any discussion on this. … (Interruptions) MR. SPEAKER: I will allow you during the Zero Hour. … (Interruptions) अध्यक्ष महोदय : ऐसा नहीं है कि मैं केवल विपक्ष के सदस्यों को ही सुनूंगा। … (Interruptions) SHRI MANI SHANKAR AIYAR :Mr. Speaker, Sir, Shri Kunwar Akhilesh Singh, Shri Rupchand Pal and Shri Pravin Rashtrapal who are the Members of the JPC, be given an opportunity to explain the abuse of our privileges for which we demand that the Question Hour should be suspended. … (Interruptions) डॉ.विजय कुमार मल्होत्रा :महोदय, क्वैश्चन आवर को ससपैंड करने का सवाल ही नहीं पैदा होता है। जेपीसी में जितने भी कांग्रेस के मैम्बर्स थे, उन्होंने एक शब्द भी मनिस्टर के बारे में नहीं कहा है। मनिस्टर के खिलाफ उन्होंने डिसेंट नोट या कुछ भी नहीं लिखा है। It is immoral on their part. It is not only immoral but also illegal on their part now to come out and say that the Minister should own the responsibility. जनतन्त्र का मजाक उड़ाया जा रहा है। …( व्यवधान) MR. SPEAKER: Who is going to speak on JPC? SHRI MANI SHANKAR AIYAR ( MAYILADUTURAI ): Mr. Speaker, Sir… (Interruptions) MR. SPEAKER: I am permitting you to speak on behalf of your Party. Everybody cannot speak. … (Interruptions) SHRI S. JAIPAL REDDY ( MIRYALGUDA ): There is something in regard to the JPC Report. Such other Members, who are interested in saying something, may be permitted. MR. SPEAKER: I have not permitted a general debate on this. Whenever there is a general debate, Members can always take part in it. Everybody will not be permitted to speak now. … (Interruptions) श्री शिवराज सिंह चौहान ( वदिशा ):अध्यक्ष महोदय, हम भी महत्वपूर्ण मामला उठाना चाहते हैं। एक ही इशू पर सारे नेता बोलें और उसमें पूरा समय चला जाएगा तो ठीक नहीं होगा। यदि हमें बोलने का समय नहीं मिलेगा तो ठीक नहीं होगा।…( व्यवधान) अध्यक्ष महोदय: आप जो बात कह रहे हैं, मैंने भी वही बात कह कर रिकवैस्ट की। डॉ. विजय कुमार मल्होत्रा ( दक्षिण दिल्ली ):हम चेयर से एक रिकवैस्ट करना चाहते हैं कि यह जब बोलेंगे तो हम आराम से सुनेंगे लेकिन जब इधर से कोई बोलेगा तो इनको भी आराम से सुनना चाहिए। यह एक बार भी आराम से नहीं सुनते हैं और सभी लोग खड़े हो जाते हैं। …( व्यवधान) श्री रघुनाथ झा ( गोपालगंज ):अघ्यक्ष महोदय, संयुक्त संसदीय समति में दोनों सदनों के सदस्य होते हैं और वह आपके द्वारा बनायी जाती है। उसने सर्वसम्मति से रिपोर्ट दी है। इसकी यूनानिमस रिपोर्ट जे.पी.सी. ने दी है, जिसमें कहीं भी यशवंत सिन्हा का नाम नहीं है। ये जिसके बारे में चर्चा कर रहे हैं कि उन्हें दंडित क्यों नहीं किया गया। रिपोर्ट में वे कहीं दंडित नहीं हुए हैं। क्या इनके कहने से वे दंडित होंगे। अगर सदन ही अपनी मर्यादा को गिराना चाहता है तो इसके लिए कौन जवाब देगा। जैसे यह सदन में सदस्य हैं, वैसे ही यह उस कमेटी के सदस्य भी रहे हैं।…( व्यवधान) अध्यक्ष महोदय : आप जो बात कर रहे हैं वह सभी को मालूम है।…( व्यवधान) श्री रघुनाथ झा : इनको अलाऊ नहीं करना चाहिए। आपने इन्हें बोलने की इजाजत दी है, यह ठीक नहीं है। यह हाउस की गरिमा को गिराने की बात है।…( व्यवधान) अध्यक्ष महोदय : इनके बोलने से पहले मुझे कैसे मालूम पड़ेगा, आप उन्हें पहले बोलने दीजिए। He can always put his views. … (Interruptions) SHRI KIRTI JHA AZAD ( DARBHANGA ): Sir, nobody has given any Note of Dissent. Now, what do they want to say? No notice has been given by them… (Interruptions) MR. SPEAKER: Let me bring it to the notice of the House that notice has been given by Shri Mani Shankar Aiyar. The notice is regarding the reported statement made by the Chairman of the JPC to the Press. I have already received this notice. Therefore, I have permitted him. This is exactly according to the rules. श्री विनय कटियार ( फैज़ाबाद ):क्या ऐसा करना नियमों के अनुसार है। अध्यक्ष महोदय : यह नियम के अनुसार नहीं है, यह कन्वैंशन के अनुसार है। आप बैठिये। डॉ. विजय कुमार मल्होत्रा : अध्यक्ष महोदय, जे.पी.सी. खत्म हो गई। उसके चेयरमैन अब नहीं रहे यानी अब उसका कोई चेयरमैन नहीं है। फिर यह मामला क्यों उठा रहे हैं।…( व्यवधान) He is not the Chairman of the JPC. अध्यक्ष महोदय : यदि चेयरमैन नहीं है तो भी प्रश्न आ सकता है। आप उन्हें उत्तर देंगे।…( व्यवधान) श्री रघुनाथ झा : कांग्रेस के प्रवक्ता ने कल यह बयान दिया था कि तत्कालीन फाइनैन्स मनिस्टर को इस्तीफा देना चाहिए। जे.पी.सी. के तत्कालीन चेयरमैन ने बताया था कि उसमें फाइनैन्स मनिस्टर का नाम किसी भी स्तर पर नहीं है।…( व्यवधान) MR. SPEAKER: I cannot permit everybody. … (Interruptions) श्री विनय कटियार : यह जे.पी.सी. के खुद सदस्य रहे हैं। यहां बोलने से अब इन्हें क्या लाभ है। उसी कमेटी की रिपोर्ट यहां आई है, कमेटी में इन्होंने वहां बोला होगा, अब यहां बोलने का क्या फायदा है। यह उसकी ड्राफ्ट कमेटी के भी सदस्य रहे हैं।…( व्यवधान)उस पर अब टिप्पणी का क्या लाभ है। श्री प्रियरंजन दासमुंशी ( रायगंज ) : उस पर टिप्पणी करने का हमें राइट है। अध्यक्ष महोदय : मैं आपसे एक हद तक सहमत हूं। लेकिन इनका विषय मुझे सुनने के बाद ही मालूम पड़ेगा। आप मुझे सुनने दीजिए। SHRI PRIYA RANJAN DASMUNSI : Sir, everybody has got a right to make a comment on the Report. फाइनैन्स मनिस्टर ने गड़बड़ की है। श्री विनय कटियार : इन्होंने समति के समक्ष अपनी सारी बातें कही हैं, अब यह सदन का समय क्यों खराब कर रहे हैं। यह जे.पी.सी. के सदस्य रहे हैं। इन्होंने वहां सब कुछ बोला है, अपने विचार व्यक्त किये हैं, अब फिर से यहां बोलने का क्या लाभ है।…( व्यवधान) श्री तरित बरण तोपदार ( बैरकपुर ) :इसके ऊपर चर्चा होनी चाहिए और फिर कार्रवाई होनी चाहिए। श्री प्रियरंजन दासमुंशी : मैंने अभी तक रिपोर्ट पढ़ी भी नहीं है। …( व्यवधान) अध्यक्ष महोदय : आप तो बहुत सीनियर सदस्य हैं, आप कैसी बात करते हैं, यह अच्छी बात नहीं है। … (Interruptions) MR. SPEAKER: The question is whether a particular Member who was the Member of the Committee can speak in the House. That is the question raised. Firstly, there is no bar from speaking. Another thing which I thought is that, I must listen to the Member because he has given a notice not on the matters of the Committee but on some statement made by the Chairman of the Committee. Now, whether his issue is proper or not, it can be decided only after I listen to him. If I feel that it is not proper to raise this issue, I can definitely reject it. I have a right to do it if it is not according to the rules. But as long as he wants to speak according to the rules, I have to permit him. If the Ruling Party does not agree with him, I will allow one Member to speak and he can oppose it. But the matter before me does not pertain to the JPC. My question is that there are a number of Members who have given notices for `Zero Hour’. Around 30 to 35 Members have given `Zero Hour’ notices. Today is the last day of this Session. If you all decide that you do not want to raise your questions, I have no objection. But at the same time, everybody should not raise his hand. On JPC, I will allow only one person who has given a notice and thereafter, I will allow one Member from the Ruling Party to reply. After that, we can go to other important questions provided you so desire. If all of you decide to discuss this matter, I have no objection. It is left to the House what they want to do. …( व्यवधान) श्री विनय कटियार : अध्यक्ष महोदय, मेरा यह निवेदन है कि जे.पी.सी. का मुद्दा बाद में लिया जाए। इससे पहले बाकी और कार्यवाही है उसे निपटाया जाए। कांग्रेस वाले लोग वाक आउट करने वाले हैं। जब इन्हें सदन से बाहर जाना ही है, तो ये बाद में न जाकर पहले चले जाएं, लेकिन ये वॉक-आउट कर के खबर बनाना चाहते हैं। इसलिए मेरा निवेदन है कि इस मुद्दे को बाद में लिया जाए।…( व्यवधान) अध्यक्ष महोदय : मैंने रामजी लाल सुमन जी को अपना विषय उठाने की अनुमति पहले दे दी क्योंकि उन्होंने कहा था कि उन्हें जाना है। उस समय भी इस तरफ के कई माननीय सदस्यों ने कहा था कि बाकी प्रश्न पहले ले लिए जाएं, लेकिन मैंने उन्हें ऐसा करने की इजाजत नहीं दी। आप कृपया बैठिए। DR. VIJAY KUMAR MALHOTRA : Sir, I am only requesting you that a very bad precedent is being created in this House. अगर एक बार कमेटी की रिपोर्ट यूनेनिमसली आ गई और यदि ये उस पर डिसकस करना चाहते हैं, तो करें, लेकिन इन्होंने कल जाकर इस्तीफा मांगना शुरू कर दिया। जो इन्होंने रिपोर्ट में लिखा है, उससे ये कैसे हट सकते हैं। …( व्यवधान) MR. SPEAKER: You have very efficiently replied to them also. Now, let Shri Mani Shankar Aiyar speak and nothing else should go on record. (Interruptions)* 

* Not Recorded 
  
  

SHRI MANI SHANKAR AIYAR : Mr. Speaker, Sir, I, as a Member of the JPC and several of my colleagues whom I have consulted are utterly shocked that General Prakash Mani Tripathi, in his capacity as the Chairman of the JPC and not in his individual capacity, has given a clean chit to the former Minister of Finance, Shri Yashwant Sinha when nowhere in the Report. (Interruptions)* 

MR. SPEAKER: I have said it earlier and I will repeat it again that except the statement of Shri Mani Shankar Aiyar, nothing should go on record. (Interruptions) … * 

MR. SPEAKER: Please sit down. It is my request to you. … (Interruptions) अध्यक्ष महोदय : मैंने मल्होत्रा जी को इजाजत दी है इसका उत्तर देने के लिए। आपको भी उत्तर देने की इजाजत मिल सकती है। आप कृपया बैठिए। (Interruptions)* 

MR. SPEAKER: I have already said that nothing should go on record except the statement of Shri Mani Shankar Aiyar. SHRI MANI SHANKAR AIYAR ( MAYILADUTURAI ): Mr. Speaker, Sir, as a Member of the JPC myself and in consultation with several of my colleagues, I would like to bring it to your attention that General Prakash Mani Tripathi not in his individual capacity as a Member of the Committee but in his capacity as the Chairman of the Committee, without any authorisation from the Committee, has yesterday informed the media that the JPC has given a clean chit to the former Minister of Finance, Shri Yashwant Sinha. These words ‘a clean chit’ appear nowhere in the Report. It is a construction made by the Chairman himself. He is welcome to do so as a member. But, for him to do so as the Chairman is abuse of the privileges of all of us who are members of the Committee. … (Interruptions) * Not Recorded 

MR. SPEAKER: I am listening only to him now. SHRI MANI SHANKAR AIYAR : The Report contains a large number of indictments both in regard to omissions as well as with regard to sins of commission of the Ministry of Finance. There can be no Ministry without a Minister. In any case, no official of the Ministry of Finance or any official of the regulatory agencies under the Ministry of Finance can come to this House. Only the Minister is responsible to this House. Only the Minister is accountable to this House. SHRI KIRIT SOMAIYA ( MUMBAI NORTH EAST ): He is now going into the details of the Report. This cannot be permitted. He is making allegations. Those should be removed. … (Interruptions) MR. SPEAKER: Anything he has said which is allegatory will be removed from the records. SHRI MANI SHANKAR AIYAR : In view of the fact that the Report itself describes the methodology by which a Minister is held responsible for acts of omission or commission within his Ministry, it is completely wrong of Gen. Tripathi, qua Chairman of the JPC, to say on behalf of the JPC that a clean chit has been given. This is a matter which can be discussed. But this is not a matter on which the Chairman can pronounce. MR. SPEAKER: Please conclude. I cannot allow a long speech during ‘Zero Hour’. … (Interruptions) SHRI MANI SHANKAR AIYAR : Moreover, the JPC has given in great detail how Shri Yashwant Sinha misled the Rajya Sabha when there was a Calling Attention Motion on the 13th March 2001 as well as described in great detail how the Minister did not conform to the truth, the whole truth when it came to keeping the Ministry deliberately in the dark or giving assurances about certain matters. MR. SPEAKER: You cannot go into those matters. You simply speak on the statement of the Chairman. SHRI MANI SHANKAR AIYAR : Since the Report has indicted the Ministry, and through it the Minister, and as the Report has pointed out how the Minister has misled the House, we demand his resignation and we demand an apology from the Chairman for having breached our faith. SHRI RUPCHAND PAL HOOGLY) Sir, I want to say something as a Member of the Committee. SHRI PRAVIN RASHTRAPAL ( PATAN ): I may also be allowed to associate myself with what Shri Mani Shankar Aiyar said. MR. SPEAKER: You will be associated and he will also be associated. … (Interruptions) MR. SPEAKER: I have not permitted you. डॉ. विजय कुमार मल्होत्रा :अध्यक्ष महोदय, यह जो यूनेनीमस रिपोर्ट …( व्यवधान) SHRI MANI SHANKAR AIYAR : If the Chairman does not respect our unanimity; if he breaks the unanimity, if he goes before the Press and says things that are not in the Report, how can Shri Vijay Kumar Malhotra talk about this being unanimous? It is our privilege that has been breached by the Chairman; the Chairman has breached our faith. The Chairman has to apologise to me. The Chairman should get up and speak. … (Interruptions) डॉ. विजय कुमार मल्होत्रा :अध्यक्ष महोदय, पहले आप उनको बैठाइये।…( व्यवधान) MR. SPEAKER: Shri Vijay Kumar Malhotra, only what you speak will go on record and nothing else will go on record. I have permitted only you to speak. श्री किरीट सोमैया :त्यागपत्र तो इन्होंने श्री नरेन्द्र मोदी का भी मांगा था लेकिन जनता ने इनका त्यागपत्र ले लिया।…( व्यवधान)आठ महीने तक आपने श्री नरेन्द्र मोदी का त्यागपत्र मांगा था।…( व्यवधान) MR. SPEAKER: I have permitted the Member and the Member made an argument. … (Interruptions) MR. SPEAKER: I am not allowing any discussion on this issue. Only Dr. Malhotra will go on record. … (Interruptions) MR. SPEAKER : If the Chairman wants to reply, I have no objection. But I cannot force him to reply. (Interruptions) * 

अध्यक्ष महोदय : डॉ. मल्होत्रा, आप बोलिए, आपका रिकार्ड में जाएगा। …( व्यवधान) MR. SPEAKER: Dr. Malhotra, whatever you say will go on record. (Interruptions)* 

MR. SPEAKER: You are all hon. Members. I have heard a point of view. I would like to listen to another point of view. Please sit down. … (Interruptions) MR. SPEAKER: Dr. Malhotra, in his capacity as Member of this House, is speaking. (Interruptions) * 

MR. SPEAKER: Dr. Malhotra, if you do not start speaking, I will conclude it. (Interruptions)* 

डॉ. विजय कुमार मल्होत्रा :अध्यक्ष जी, हम बोलेंगे तो ये सुनेंगे नहीं और जब ये बोलते हैं तो हम सुनते हैं।…( व्यवधान) अध्यक्ष महोदय : आप भी नहीं बोलेंगे, मैं खड़ा हूं। … (Interruptions) MR. SPEAKER: I am trying to understand what exactly Members want. The Members want that on this issue also, they would like to express their views. I have no objection to that. But at the same time, you should allow Dr. Malhotra to speak. When Shri Mani Shankar Aiyar was speaking, he was allowed to speak. Now, when Dr. Malhotra wants to speak, he should also be allowed to speak. We 

* Not Recorded. can stop all these interruptions. उनको बोलने दीजिए। Probably what he speaks may be 

advantageous to you also. … (Interruptions) SHRI MANI SHANKAR AIYAR : Sir, I am addressing the Chair. My point is that you have ruled that only one Member of the Treasury Benches can speak. Since the charge that I am making is against the Chairman of the Committee, who is the BJP Member and is present here, let the Chairman of the JPC respond. Otherwise, once Dr. Malhotra responded, according to your own ruling, we cannot get another statement. So, if we are going to discuss the issue that I raised, then let it be answered by a responsible person, who can be none other than the Chairman of our JPC, against whom I am making this charge of breach of faith and breach of trust. … (Interruptions) SHRI KIRIT SOMAIYA : Sir, I am on a point of order. … (Interruptions) MR. SPEAKER: There is no point of order in ‘Zero Hour’. … (Interruptions) MR. SPEAKER: Shri Kirit Somaiya, please sit down. … (Interruptions) MR. SPEAKER: Shri Mani Shankar Aiyar has made the point that the Chairman of the Committee should reply. I have permitted Dr. Malhotra to speak. Thereafter, if the Chairman and the House desire that the Chairman should speak, I have no objection to allow him also. Now, Dr. Malhotra, please go ahead. I know the whole House wants this issue to be discussed. I have no problem. … (Interruptions) MR. SPEAKER: Hon. Members, if you listen to Dr. Malhotra, I am prepared to allow other Members also. … (Interruptions) MR. SPEAKER: If all of you are prepared to be calm and quiet, to listen to Dr. Malhotra, I am prepared to allow other hon. Members also to speak. If you go on disturbing him, I will not allow you. Please sit down. मणिशंकर अय्यर जी, आप सुनिये। … (Interruptions) SHRI KIRTI JHA AZAD : You have decided to allow the other hon. Member also to speak.… (Interruptions) MR. SPEAKER: I cannot help it. The ruling party and the opposition decide these matters. आप बैठिये । ...( व्यवधान) अध्यक्ष महोदय : अभी मल्होत्रा जी बोल रहे हैं, आप मल्होत्रा जी को सुनिये, नहीं तो उनके प्रति यह बहुत अन्याय होगा। डॉ. विजय कुमार मल्होत्रा : अध्यक्ष जी, अभी मणिशंकर अय्यर जी ने जो सवाल जे.पी.सी. के चेयरमैन के बारे में उठाया है, चेयरमैन उनके जवाबदेह हैं। मैं आपके सामने इस हाउस की इज्जत का सवाल रखना चाहता हूं। एक कमेटी की रिपोर्ट आई, यूनानिमस रिपोर्ट आई, अगर ये बता दें कि किसी ने डीसेंट नोट लगाया हो तो मैं अभी बैठ जाता हूं। कोई डीसेंट नोट नहीं है, कोई एक्सप्लेनेटरी नोट नहीं है, कोई क्लैरीफिकेटरी नोट नहीं है। एक रिपोर्ट आई, हाउस में ले हो गई। हाउस में ले होने के बाद उस कमेटी का कोई चेयरमैन नहीं रहा, कोई मैम्बर नहीं रहा। अगर उस पर ये बहस करना चाहते थे तो आपको एक चिट्ठी लिखें, उसके बाद बिजनेस एडवाइजरी कमेटी टाइम तय करेगी कि कोई बहस कर लें। उसके बारे में जो यूनानिमस रिपोर्ट है, उसके अन्दर इनको लगता है कि कोई…( व्यवधान) MR. SPEAKER: Shri Bansal, it has been decided that nobody would disturb Dr. Malhotra. After his speech, I will allow the other hon. Members also to speak. डॉ. विजय कुमार मल्होत्रा : मैंने कहा है कि उसमें कोई डीसेंट नोट नहीं है और अगर कोई डीसेंट नोट नहीं है और किसी भी जगह, मुझे बता दें, सारी कमेटी में किसी ने यह मांग की हो कि मनिस्टर इस्तीफा दे, उसके अन्दर अगर डीसेंट रिकार्ड किया हो तो वह बता दें। कुछ न होने के बाद यह लगता है कि इनकी पार्टी ने मैंम्बरों को कहा कि तुमने ऐसी गलती कैसे कर दी, वहां पर अपना डीसेंट क्यों रिकार्ड नहीं किया तो अपनी झेंप मिटाने के लिए हाउस में इस तरह के सवाल ये उठा रहे हैं, जो बड़ा ही गलत प्रिसीडेंट है। मेरा कहना है कि इस तरह का गलत प्रिसीडेंट हाउस में नहीं आना चाहिए और अगर डीसेंट रिकार्ड नहीं किया। अब जो रिपोर्ट है, उस रिपोर्ट के बारे में कोई बाहर क्या इण्टरप्रिटेशन दे, कल मैंने एक मैम्बर को सुना। उसने जाते ही कहा कि हमने यशवन्त सिन्हा का इस्तीफा मांगा है। अध्यक्ष महोदय : आप बाहर की बातें मत कहिये, सदन में जो हुआ, वह कहिये। डॉ.विजय कुमार मल्होत्रा : उन्होंने वहां पर बाद में यह कहा कि कहीं पर इस्तीफा नहीं मांगा गया है, इतनी बात कही है, इसमें क्या बुराई की बात है? MR. SPEAKER: Now, Shri Jaipal Reddy to speak. प्लीज सुनिये। मैं आपको भी इजाजत देने वाला हूं, आप बैठिये। अगर आप यही चर्चा चाहते हैं तो मैं क्या कर सकता हूं। SHRI KIRIT SOMAIYA : We have given notices for raising other subjects in the ‘Zero Hour’. Please give us a chance. अध्यक्ष महोदय : ऑनरेबल मैम्बर्स, प्लीज सुनिये। SHRI PRIYA RANJAN DASMUNSI : Sir, this is how they are behaving! 

श्री चन्द्रकांत खैरे ( औरंगाबाद, महाराष्ट्र ) : हमारा भी जीरो ऑवर का नोटिस है। अध्यक्ष महोदय : जीरो ऑवर का नोटिस मेरे पास है। मैं बार-बार कहता हूं कि ३५ नोटिसेज मेरे पास हैं। अभी सदन में यह तय हुआ, जब मल्होत्रा जी निवेदन कर रहे थे, मैंने कांग्रेस पार्टी को रिक्वैस्ट की कि उनका निवेदन सुनना चाहिए, अगर आप उनका निवेदन शान्ति से सुनेंगे तो मैं एक और मैम्बर को इजाजत दूंगा। इसलिए मैं जयपाल रेड्डी जी को इजाजत दे रहा हूं। उसके बाद कमेटी के चेयरमैन बोलेंगे। फिर जीरो ऑवर का टाइम बच जायेगा तो हम जरूर लेंगे। ...( व्यवधान) MR. SPEAKER: Let me tell you that on an important issue like this, I have permitted him. Please sit down. आप सब लोग बैठिये। आप लोग ही नहीं चाहते कि जीरो ऑवर हो जाये?तो आप सब लोग क्यों खड़े हैं?मैं दो मैम्बर्स को मौका देकर यदि जीरो ऑवर ले सकता हूं तो आप क्यों नहीं लेने देते हो। मैं इसीलिए तो बोल रहा हूं कि आप बैठिये, तभी आपका इश्यू आ सकता है। यह इश्यू आने के लिए ही आपको बोल रहा हूं। शिवाजी माने, आप बैठेंगे नहीं तो यह विषय नहीं आयेगा। खैरे जी भी नहीं बोल पाएंगे। प्लीज बैठिये। … (Interruptions) श्री शिवराज सिंह चौहान :यह हमारे साथ अन्याय है। मध्य प्रदेश में लोग भूख से मर रहे हैं। अध्यक्ष महोदय : इसीलिए तो मैं सोचता हूं कि ऐसे विषय पर चर्चा नहीं होनी चाहिए। मैं जल्दी पूरा करना चाहता हूं, लेकिन अभी आप ही भाषण कर रहे हैं। आप बैठिये। …( व्यवधान) श्री चन्द्रकांत खैरे : कमेटी की रिपोर्ट आ गई है।…( व्यवधान) अध्यक्ष महोदय : अभी जयपाल रेड्डी जी जो बोलेंगे, वही रिकार्ड में जाएगा, बाकी कुछ नहीं जाएगा। Shri Chandrakant Khaire, whatever you say will also not go on record. (Interruptions)* 

MR. SPEAKER: Shri Jaipal Reddy, I have permitted you. You can speak now. … (Interruptions) SHRI S. JAIPAL REDDY ( MIRYALGUDA ): Mr. Speaker, Sir, at the outset, I must clarify that I hold Gen. Tripathi in high personal esteem. I must also state that he conducted the meetings of the JPC with great distinction and dignity. Having said this, I now express my regret over the manner in which he briefed the Press about the contents and implications of the JPC Report. Sir, the JPC Report contains… (Interruptions) अध्यक्ष महोदय : मैं आप लोगों से पूछना चाहता हूं, आप जो चाहते हैं इस सदन में शून्य काल में चर्चा होनी चाहिए और शून्य काल में आपके प्रश्न आने चाहिए, यही आप चाहते हैं। वे प्रश्न यहां आएं, उसके लिए मेरी पूरी कोशिश रहेगी। मैं उस कमेटी के चेयरमैन को भी जवाब देने का मौका दे रहा हूं, फिर आप और क्या चाहते हैं। नहीं तो मैं इतना ही कहूंगा कि आपके महत्वपूर्ण प्रश्न तभी आ सकते हैं, जब जे.पी.सी. का विषय कंक्लूड होगा। मैं कंक्लूड करने की कोशिश कर रहा हूं। आप सहयोग नहीं करेंगे तो यह विषय पूरा नहीं होगा। एक बजे मैं हाउस स्थगित करने वाला हूं। आपको शून्य काल में बोलना है तो आप शांत रहें। आप शांति नहीं रखेंगे तो आपका ही नुकसान होगा। The Chairman of the Committee would also speak. Please take your seat. (Interruptions)* 

* Not Recorded. MR. SPEAKER: I do not want to listen to anybody else now, excepting Shri Jaipal Reddy. SHRI S. JAIPAL REDDY : Mr. Speaker, Sir, I crave your indulgence for beginning from the beginning. At the outset, I must state that I hold Gen. Tripathi, an hon. Member of this House, in very high personal esteem. I must also state on record that I compliment him for the manner in which he conducted himself as the Chairman of the JPC. … (Interruptions) MR. SPEAKER: He is complimenting the Chairman. Please take your seat. SHRI S. JAIPAL REDDY : Sir, he conducted the proceedings with great dignity and distinction. He carried all of us with him. Having said this, I must record my surprise, dismay and regret about the manner in which Shri Prakash Mani Tripathi, as the Chairman of the JPC, briefed the Press about the contents and implications of the JPC Report. The JPC Report has documented many lapses of the Ministry and the regulators in a detailed fashion. It would be ridiculous, absurd and preposterous for anybody to propound that there can be a Ministry without a Minister. In the technical, legalistic sense, the Minister alone will represent the Ministry and no official can represent the Ministry. The Minister is the head of the Ministry and the Minister is the sole and unique representative of the Ministry. If all the Members of the BJP and the Treasury Benches were a party to the severe and extensive indictment of the Ministry, how can the Minister escape the responsibility for the Ministry? … (Interruptions) Sir, anybody who has read the Report would testify to the fact that Shri Yashwant Sinha, as the Finance Minister, did not inform Parliament correctly about the UTI crisis, nor did Shri Yashwant Sinha inform Parliament correctly about the payment crisis in the Calcutta Stock Exchange. For the UTI scam, the Ministry is squarely responsible. Twenty million investors have lost their monies. Tens of thousands of crores have been lost by them and the Government had to provide a bail out package of Rs. 14,000 crore in 2002. Sir, the JPC was not only asked to look into the stock market scam but also to look into UTI scam. The JPC have found that the Minister because of sins of omission and commission is responsible for both the stock market scam and the UTI scam. … (Interruptions) The Minister has no right whatsoever to be in the Ministry even for a single minute. … (Interruptions) MR. SPEAKER: Now Shri Tripathi, Chairman of the Committee will speak. SHRI RUPCHAND PAL : Just a minute, Sir. MR. SPEAKER: I have not allowed you to speak. SHRI RUPCHAND PAL : Sir, I was also a Member of the JPC. MR. SPEAKER: There are many Members who are present in the House. … (Interruptions) SHRI RUPCHAND PAL : I was even surprised to listen to the Chairman, who conducted himself in such a dignified manner in the Committee itself. … (Interruptions) They have misinterpreted the Report. … (Interruptions) MR. SPEAKER: Do you not want the Chairman to speak now? … (Interruptions) MR. SPEAKER: I have permitted the Chairman to speak. … (Interruptions) MR. SPEAKER: Mr. Chairman, you can now go ahead. … (Interruptions) MR. SPEAKER: You also want to speak. He also wants to speak. I am unable to permit everybody. … (Interruptions) MR. SPEAKER: On this issue, Mr. Chairman of the Committee will be the last Speaker. … (Interruptions) SHRI KHARABELA SWAIN ( BALASORE ): In that way, Dr. Manmohan Singh was also responsible. SHRI PRIYA RANJAN DASMUNSI : He resigned. … (Interruptions) MR. SPEAKER: I have got a copy of the Report. I have got a copy of the brief also. Whatever part was required to be read, I have already read it. … (Interruptions) MR. SPEAKER: Now let Shri Tripathi speak. … (Interruptions) SHRI PRAKASH MANI TRIPATHI ( DEORIA ): Sir, I stand here… 

श्री मुलायम सिंह यादव ( सम्भल ):हिन्दी में बोलिए। श्री प्रकाश मणि त्रिपाठी : महोदय, मैं सदन में खड़ा हूं, लेकिन चेयरमैन की हैसियत से नहीं खड़ा हूं।…( व्यवधान) अध्यक्ष महोदय : मुलायम जी, देखिए, आपका कितना मान करते हैं। श्री मणि शंकर अय्यर :एज़-एन-इन्डिविज्युअल खड़े हुए हैं। …( व्यवधान) श्री प्रकाश मणि त्रिपाठी :मैं हर चीज का जवाब दूंगा। …( व्यवधान) MR. SPEAKER :Please sit down. श्री प्रकाश मणि त्रिपाठी :ऩ तो मैं यहां माफी मांगने के लिए खड़ा हूं और न ही कोई एक्सप्लेनेशन देने के लिए खड़ा हूं। यहां मैं इस बात का जवाब देने के लिए लिए खड़ा हूं, जैसा कि इन्होंने कहा है कि ब्रीच-ऑफ-फेथ हुआ है। सारे मैम्बर्स जानते हैं कि ३६० घन्टे हम लोगों ने बैठकर बातचीत की और कभी कोई ब्रीच-ऑफ-फेथ नही हुआ। इसका सवाल ही पैदा नहीं हुआ…( व्यवधान) श्री मणि शंकर अय्यर :लेकिन अब हुआ है। उसके बाद हुआ है। …( व्यवधान) श्री प्रकाश मणि त्रिपाठी :अगर कोई ब्रीच-ऑफ-फेथ हुआ है, तो सब लोग एक मत होकर इस रिपोर्ट को पेश करने के बाद, यहां पर प्रजैन्ट होते ही, बाहर जाकर कहा है कि इनका इस्तीफा चाहिए।…( व्यवधान) श्री मणि शंकर अय्यर :रिपोर्ट का नतीजा यही है। …( व्यवधान) श्री प्रकाश मणि त्रिपाठी :ब्रीच-ऑफ-फेथ हुआ है, तो आप लोगों की तरफ से हुआ है, हम से नहीं हुआ है। …( व्यवधान) कल शाम को पांच बजे प्रैस कान्फ्रेंस थी।…( व्यवधान)आप तो सदस्य भी नहीं थे। …( व्यवधान)मैं बता रहा हूं, ध्यान से सुनिए। तकलीफ होगी, लेकिन सुनिए। पांच बजे मेरी प्रैस कांफ्रेंस थी और यह मेरी प्रैस विज्ञप्ति हैं, जो महोदय, मैं आपको देना चाहता हूं। किसी तरह की कोई क्लीन चिट् नहीं दी गई है, आप इसको पढ़ सकते हैं। लेकिन पांच बजे से पहले …( व्यवधान)ढ़ाई बजे यह बात शुरु हो गई और जब रिपोर्ट का राजनीतिकरण हो गया, तो मुझसे प्रैस कान्फ्रेंस में कोई और सवाल पूछा ही नहीं गया। यह बहुत बड़ी गलती हुई है। 13.00 hrs. 

४५० पेज़ की इतनी अच्छी रिपोर्ट दी गई है। ३० माननीय सदस्यों ने मिल कर उसे अपनी सहमति दी है। मेरे से पूरी प्रैस कांफ्रेंस में अन्य कोई सवाल नहीं पूछा गया, केवल एक सवाल - यशवंत सिन्हा, यशवंत सिन्हा कहा गया। मैं क्या करूं? …( व्यवधान) SHRI PAWAN KUMAR BANSAL : Sir, I am on a point of order. MR. SPEAKER: There is no point of order in the ‘Zero Hour’. … (Interruptions)SHRI PAWAN KUMAR BANSAL : Sir, he is criticising the Press, which is not present in the House… (Interruptions) SHRI PRAKASH MANI TRIPATHI : Sir, I would request all the Members to sit down and listen to me first… (Interruptions) MR. SPEAKER: He is very nicely explaining the position of the Press Conference, if you listen to him, all of you will be satisfied. … (Interruptions)MR. SPEAKER: I am sure that if he has not given a clean chit, all of you will be satisfied. … (Interruptions)SHRI MANI SHANKAR AIYAR : Can he just clarify?… (Interruptions) MR. SPEAKER: No, question-answer session now. … (Interruptions) अध्यक्ष महोदय : इस समय मैं कोई दूसरी बात रिकार्ड में नहीं ले सकूंगा, केवल त्रिपाठी जी की बात रिकार्ड में जाएगी। आप चेयरमैन की मदद कीजिए, वे उत्तर दे रहे हैं। श्री प्रकाश मणि त्रिपाठी : पांच बजे प्रैस कांफ्रेंस में बार-बार मेरे से ये चीजें पूछी गईं तो मैंने यही कहा कि यह रिपोर्ट सर्वसम्मति से तैयार हुई है।…( व्यवधान) महोदय, इस बारे में जो कहा गया वह मैंने पढ़ कर सुना दिया। मैंने कहा कि आप भी अंग्रेजी समझते हैं और जिन्होंने कहा है वे भी अंग्रेजी समझते हैं, आप पढ़ लीजिए और उनसे जाकर पूछ लीजिए कि इसमें क्या चीजें हैं। हर जगह इतने पहलुओं पर उन्होंने किया है। मणिशंकर जी, रूपचंद पाल जी, जयपाल जी और सब माननीय सदस्यों का योगदान रहा। इतनी बड़ी रिपोर्ट को रद्द कर देने की सारी जिम्मेदारी आप लोगों की है। MR. SPEAKER: The House stands adjourned to meet again at 2 p.m. 

 13.02 hrs. 

The Lok Sabha then adjourned for Lunch till Fourteen of the Clock. ------------