Under sections 11(1) , 11B and 11(4) of the Securities and Exchange Board of
India Act, 1992 read with Regulation 65 of the SEBI (Collective Investment
Schemes) Regulations, 1999 in the matter of Rose Valley Hotels and
Entertainments Limited. 1. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (hereinafter referred to as "SEBI") had
 received a letter dated June 20, 2012, from the Additional Director General of Police,
 Office of the Director, Bureau of Investigation (E. O.), Assam, Guwahati (hereinafter
 referred to as "ADGP, Assam Police"), regarding the raising of funds by M/s Rose
 Valley Hotels and Entertainments Limited (hereinafter referred to as "RVHEL") and
 M/s Rose Valley Real Estates Constructions Limited (hereinafter referred to as
 "RVRECL"). As per the aforesaid letter, RVHEL and RVRECL were stated to have
 collectively raised ₹1006.70 Crores from the public till February 2012. Further, RVHEL
 was stated to have launched a scheme titled Rose Valley Holiday Membership Plan
 (hereinafter referred to as "HMP") in the year 2010. Under the HMP, an investor can
 book a holiday package through payment of monthly installments and upon maturity
 or completion of tenure for monthly installments, such investor can either avail of the
 facilities i.e. room accommodation and services or opt for maturity payment i.e. a 6 return on the investment with annualized interest. A brochure, application form
 containing the terms and conditions of the HMP alongwith a confirmation Certificate
 evidencing subscription to such HMP, were also annexed with the aforesaid letter. 2. As a matter of preliminary enquiry in order to ascertain whether or not RVHEL was
 carrying on activities of a 'collective investment scheme', SEBI vide letter dated March
 1, 2013, advised RVHEL to submit the following documents relating to the HMP, by
 March 15, 2013, viz. - i. Total number of individuals who have subscribed to the plan(s);
 ii. Details (number of rooms available, etc.) about the accommodation
 provided/projected to be provided; iii. Total number of individuals who have actually availed the services (accommodation)
 under the plan(s); iv. Details of assets held by RVHEL; v. Total amount refunded by RVHEL towards principal investment and towards interest. 3. RVHEL vide letter dated March 15, 2013, replied that it was in 'Time Share' business,
 which does not come under the purview of SEBI. In this regard, RVHEL drew reference
 to a meeting organised on February 11, 2013, at the instance of the Secretary,
 Institutional Finance and Programme Implementation Department, Government of
 Jharkhand at Ranchi (hereinafter referred to as "Joint Secretary, Govt. of
 Jharkhand") to discuss the business activities of RVHEL, which was attended by
 representatives of SEBI and RVHEL. RVHEL submitted that since the SEBI
 representative present at such meeting had mentioned that 'Time Share' Schemes do
 not come under SEBI purview, it was at a loss to understand the reasons behind
 SEBI's advice to furnish various information in connection with the 'Time Share'
 business. 4. Subsequent to receipt of the abovementioned letter dated March 15, 2013, SEBI vide
 letter dated March 19, 2013, replied to RVHEL as under - i. It was incorrect to state that SEBI had already concluded that the scheme of RVHEL
 did not come under its purview since the object of the meeting organised on
 February 11, 2013, was to brief the Joint Secretary, Govt. of Jharkhand, on the Writ
 Petition pending at Kolkata High Court between SEBI and RVRECL.

 ii. Immediately after the aforesaid meeting, SEBI had addressed a letter dated February
 13, 2013 to the Joint Secretary, Govt. of Jharkhand, to advise RVHEL to furnish the
 documents mentioned at para 2 supra, for ascertaining whether it comes under the
 purview of 'collective investment schemes' as specified in the SEBI Act, 1992 (hereinafter referred to as " SEBI Act "). In addition to the above, RVHEL was once again advised vide the SEBI letter dated
 March 19, 2013, to submit the documents mentioned at para 2 supra to SEBI by
 March 31, 2013, failing which, RVHEL would be liable to be proceeded against under
 the SEBI Act and the Regulations made thereunder. 5. RVHEL vide letter dated April 02, 2013, inter alia replied to the abovementioned SEBI
 letter as under - 6. While the preliminary inquiry was in progress, SEBI received an ad interim Order dated
 June 12, 2013 (hereinafter referred to as "Interim Order"), from the Government of
 Tripura. Vide the aforesaid Order, which was passed by the Sub-Divisional Magistrate
 Sadar, West Tripura (hereinafter referred to as "SDM, West Tripura") in accordance
 with the provisions of the Tripura Protection of Interests of Depositors (in Financial
 Establishments) (Amendment) Act, 2011 (hereinafter referred to as "Financial
 Establishments Act"), the following restrictions were imposed with immediate effect
 against the Agartala Regional Office of RVHEL - 7.1 The material available on record i.e. letter forwarded by the ADGP, Assam Police
 alongwith the annexures therein; the correspondences between SEBI and RVHEL; the
 Interim Order passed by the SDM, West Tripura alongwith the annexures therein, etc.
 have been perused. In this context, I note that RVHEL has not denied accepting funds
 from the public under its HMP. In view of the aforesaid fact and on the basis of the
 material available on record, I find it necessary to proceed with the instant matter, to
 determine whether or not the HMP offered by RVHEL is a 'collective investment
 scheme' in accordance with section 11AA of the SEBI Act.

7.2 Section 11AA of the SEBI Act reads as follows: 7.3. RVHEL has submitted that it is in 'Time Share' business and therefore will not come
 under SEBI's purview. On this ground, RVHEL has refused to submit documents in
 respect of the HMP, to SEBI. On an examination of the material available on record, it
 is prima facie observed that - i. RVHEL offers different membership plans under the HMP i.e. standard, silver, gold,
 platinum and diamond, to intended investors. ii. When an investor subscribes to a particular plan offered under the HMP, he is
 required to make monthly payments on advance or installment basis towards
 provisional allotment of facilities i.e. room accommodation and services, at resorts
 or hotels owned and managed by RVHEL. iii. The HMP plan once subscribed to, cannot be cancelled nor can the money paid in
 lieu of the facilities offered be claimed, before the expiry of tenure for such plan.

iv. Upon maturity or completion of tenure for payment of monthly installments in
 respect of the relevant HMP plan, the investor becomes entitled to the facilities
 offered therein. However, such investor may also cancel the HMP booking upon
 maturity or completion of tenure for monthly installments, in lieu of maturity
 payment for non-utilization of the facilities i.e. the equivalent accumulated credit
 value under the HMP inclusive of annualized interest. For example, when an
 investor opts for maturity payment in the event of cancellation of the HMP
 booking under a particular scheme (HA4-5-STD), after making the payment of 60
 monthly installments of ₹500 each, he would get a refund of ₹ 48,000, which is a
 return of 17.65% of annualized interest to the investor.

v. The rates of annualized interest offered under the various membership plans of
 the HMP is reproduced below - vi. In his letter to SEBI, the ADGP, Assam Police stated that out of 21.90 Lakh investors
 of RVHEL, 4.13 Lakh have opted for maturity payment instead of availing the
 facilities offered under the HMP. As per the Interim Order passed by the SDM,
 West Tripura, RVHEL is alleged to have taken "recourse to unilateral and
 spontaneous cancellation of bookings of hotels in a routine manner so as to make
 returns" to the investors under the HMP. Further, the Interim Order states that
 complaints from the public have also been received by the Government of Tripura
 inter alia alleging RVHEL failed to entertain claims from such investors for maturity
 payment, on time. 7.4 From the abovementioned details in respect of the HMP offered by RVHEL, I note that - i. RVHEL operates investment plans through the HMP, which it offers to the public. The
 contribution in the form of monthly installments made by investors in response to
 plans offered under the HMP are pooled and utilized for the purpose of the HMP;
 ii. Such contributions towards plans offered under the HMP are made by the investors
 with a view to receive profits or income in the form of returns with annualized
 interest i.e. maturity payment. iii. The resorts and hotels, which are part of the HMP, are wholly owned and managed
 by RVHEL Further, the contributions made by investors to the HMP are managed
 on their behalf, by RVHEL. iv. RVHEL has complete control on the plans offered by it under the HMP.

 In view of the above, I find that the HMP has all the ingredients of a 'collective
 investment scheme' as defined in section 11AA of the SEBI Act, as reproduced at para
 7.2 supra, for ready reference. 7.5 RVHEL has submitted that SEBI does not have any jurisdiction to enquire into its
 affairs since SEBI has admitted before the Joint Secretary, Govt. of Jharkhand that
 'Time Share' business does not come under its purview. In this regard, I note that vide 12 letter dated March 19, 2013, RVHEL was informed that it was incorrect to state that
 SEBI had concluded that its scheme did not come under SEBI's purview since the
 object of the meeting organised on February 11, 2013, was to brief the Joint
 Secretary, Govt. of Jharkhand, on the Writ Petition pending at Kolkata High Court
 between SEBI and RVRECL. RVHEL was also informed that pursuant to the aforesaid
 meeting, SEBI had written to that authority vide letter dated February 13, 2013, to
 advise RVHEL to furnish relevant documents in order for SEBI to ascertain whether it
 comes under the purview of 'collective investment schemes' as specified in the SEBI
 Act . 7.6 I note that although RVHEL has submitted that it is in 'Time Share' business and
 therefore outside SEBI's purview, the main characteristics of a 'collective investment
 scheme' are found in the HMP offered by it. In this context, it may be pertinent to
 refer to the observations of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in P.G.F Limited & Ors.
 vs. UOI & Anr. (MANU/SC/0247/2013), wherein it had observed: "...sub-section (2) of Section 11 AA, which defines a collective investment scheme disclose that it is not
 restricted to any particular commercial activity such as in a shop or any other
 commercial establishment or even agricultural operation or transportation or shipping
 or entertainment industry etc. The definition only seeks to ascertain and identify any
 scheme or arrangement, irrespective of the nature of business, which attracts
 investors to invest their funds at the instance of someone else who comes forward to
 promote such scheme or arrangement in any field and such scheme or arrangement
 provides for the various consequences to result there from." In view of these
 observations, I find that the SEBI Act is applicable to 'collective investment schemes'
 that engage in inviting investments or contributions from investors for investing in any
 asset which will inter alia result in a return on such investment. In this regard, the
 activity of fund mobilization under the HMP by RVHEL with a resultant promise of
 returns when considered in light of the other features of the HMP, as discussed in the
 preceding paragraphs, prima facie falls within the ambit of 'collective investment
 scheme' as defined under section 11AA of the SEBI Act. 7.7 I note that in terms of section 12(1B) of the SEBI Act, "no person shall sponsor or
 cause to be sponsored or cause to be carried on a 'collective investment scheme'
 unless he obtains a certificate of registration from the Board in accordance with the
 regulations". Regulation 3 of the SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) Regulations,
 1999 (hereinafter referred to as "CIS Regulations"), provides that no person other
 than a Collective Investment Management Company which has obtained a certificate
 under the CIS Regulations shall carry on or sponsor or launch a 'collective investment
 scheme'. Therefore, a person can launch or sponsor or cause to sponsor a 'collective
 investment scheme' only if it is registered with SEBI as a Collective Investment
 Management Company. In my view, therefore, the launching/floating/sponsoring or
 causing to sponsor any 'collective investment scheme' by any 'person' without
 obtaining the certificate of registration in terms of the provisions of the CIS
 Regulations is in contravention of section 12(1B) of the SEBI Act and regulation 3 of
 the CIS Regulations. In this regard, I note that RVHEL has not obtained any certificate
 of registration under the CIS Regulations for its fund mobilizing activity from the
 public, under the HMP offered by it. 7.8 Upon a consideration of the aforementioned paragraphs, I am of the view that RVHEL
 is prima facie engaged in fund mobilising activity from the public, by floating or
 sponsoring or launching 'collective investment schemes' as defined in section 11AA of
 the SEBI Act without obtaining a certificate of registration from SEBI as required under section 12(1B) of the SEBI Act and the CIS Regulations. I, therefore, find that SEBI
 has full jurisdiction to proceed against RVHEL in the instant matter. 8. I note that RVHEL was advised to respond to the preliminary enquiry conducted by
 SEBI, on two occasions through SEBI letters dated March 1, 2013 and March 19, 2013.
 However, on both occasions, RVHEL did not cooperate with SEBI as is evident from its
 refusal to submit the documents sought vide the aforesaid letters. In these
 circumstances, I find that reasonable opportunity has been afforded to RVHEL to
 respond to SEBI and its refusal do so, when considered in the context of the
 abovementioned prima facie finding, leads me to believe that such refusal to submit 14 the information sought was only to conceal the true nature and operation of the fund
 mobilising activity under the HMP. 9. Protecting the interests of investors is the first and foremost mandate for SEBI and
 therefore, steps have to be taken in the instant matter to ensure only legitimate
 investment activities are carried on by RVHEL and no investors are defrauded. In light
 of the same, I find there is no other alternative left but to take recourse through an
 interim action against RVHEL for preventing it from further carrying on with its fund
 mobilising activity related to 'collective investment scheme', without registration from
 SEBI. 10. In view of the foregoing, I, in exercise of the powers conferred upon me under sections 11(1) , 11B and 11(4) of the SEBI Act read with Regulation 65 of CIS
 Regulations, hereby direct RVHEL and its Directors: 11. The above directions shall take effect immediately and shall be in force until further
 orders. 12. This Order shall also be treated as a show cause notice. RVHEL and its Directors may
 show cause as to why appropriate directions under the SEBI Act and CIS Regulations
 including directions in terms of Regulations 65 and 73 of the CIS Regulations, should
 not be taken against them. 13. RVHEL and its Directors shall, within 15 days from the date of receipt of this Order, file
 their reply, if any, to this order. RVHEL and its Directors may also indicate, in such
 reply, whether they wish to avail an opportunity of personal hearing in the matter. and/or in the nature thereof, shall not be issued, for
 mandating/directing them, to forthwith stop the illegal and
 unlawful atrocities and harassments, perpetrated upon the
 petitioners, and the officials of the petitioner-Company, by the
 Police, and other authorities of the State of Assam, and also for
 mandating/directing them, to forthwith revoke/rescind the
 impugned Order/Show Cause Notice dated
 11.07.2013(Annexure-P6 supra). II) Issue Rule, calling upon the respondents and each
 one of them, to show cause as to why a Writ of Certiorari and/or
 in the nature thereof, shall not be issued, for directing them, to
 transmit the records, relevant to the subject matter of this writ
 petition, for rendering substantive and conscionable justice to the
 petitioners, and for quashing/setting aside the impugned
 Order/Show Cause Notice dated 11.07.2013(Annexure-P6 supra). III) Issue Rule, calling upon the respondents and each
 one of them, to show cause as to why a Writ of Prohibition and/or
 in the nature thereof, may be issued, for restraining/prohibiting
 them, from acting in any manner, in furtherance of the impugned
 Order/Show Cause Notice dated 11.07.2013(Annexure-P6 supra). IV) In the Ad-interim and thereafter, on hearing the
 parties, in the Interim, an Order in terms of i. ii. & iii above. VIII) Any other Relief(s) as to this Hon'ble High Court may
 deem fit and proper". 4) In course of hearing of the matter the petitioner has filed the contract

document(between the subscriber and the petitioner) in which the following

terms and conditions are stipulated. In this event, third party should be considered and referred to as "Guest" but
subject to consent of the applicant(s). 23. For the convenience of the applicant(s), for selling out their room
accommodation, if required, he/she/they may contact Rose Valley Travels(P)
Ltd. Perhaps, they may charge a nominal amount as against their services in
respect of our Membership Plan. 24. On the event of death of the applicant, the nominee or in absence
of the nominee, the legal heir(s)/successor(s) of the applicant is/are entitled to
the benefits in respect of the Plan. 25. The tenure of the ROSE VALLEY HOLIDAY MEMBERSHIP PLAN is
according to the respective plans, mentioned on the back of Applicant Form. 26. A non-refundable processing fees of Rs 100/- only shall be
charged extra. 27. Disputes, if any, are to be referred to the Arbitrator to be
appointed by the Company and the decision of the Arbitrator shall be final
and binding upon the Parties hereto in accordance with the provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 . 28. All disputes are subject to Kolkata Jurisdiction.". 5) Shri L. Nageswar Rao, the learned senior counsel arguing for the

petitioner, urged the following contentions in support of the prayers made in

the writ petition. (i) The subscriptions collected under the HMP would not come

within the purview of the collective investment scheme as envisaged in section 11AA(2) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992. (ii) The terms of the contract in the HMP scheme envisage coverage

of accident risk to the subscriber of a scheme for a period of 1 to 2 years by

a policy of insurance. The insurance component offered under the scheme

makes the entire scheme excluded from the purview of the collective

investment scheme in view of the provisions contained in Explanation to Section 12(1)(1B) of the SEBI Act. (iii) The SEBI under Section 11B of the Act could not have passed

the ad-interim ex-parte order. The power to issue directions under Section

11(B) will arise only after making or causing to be made an enquiry and

upon satisfaction of the requisites under Section 11(B) interim orders could

be passed. (iv) When the notice is issued by the SEBI a single member of it

could not have passed the ad-interim ex-parte order without a specific

authorisation in writing to that effect in view of the provisions contained in Section 19 of the Act. 6) The conditions stipulated in sub-Section (2) of Section 11AA of the

Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 is extracted here under

for convenient reference. It is argued that the conditions stipulated in sub-Section (2) of Section

11AA have to be cumulatively fulfilled to constitute a collective investment

scheme. The HMP scheme launched by the petitioner does not qualify to be

constituted as a collective investment scheme. The conditions mentioned in

sub-Section (2) do not apply to the HMP scheme, in particular with reference

to clause (ii) it is submitted that under the HMP scheme the investor does

not receive any profit ~ whether movable or immovable ~ from such scheme

or arrangement. The investor is only permitted to stay in a hotel for a

particular number of days and such a stay in the hotel amounts to a licence.

The consideration for the investment cannot be construed as profit, income,

produce or property. 7) The learned senior counsel referred to the provisions of sub-Section

(1B) of Section 12 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992

which reads as follows. The contract of HMP scheme imbibes coverage of accident insurance

to the investor. In view of the Explanation to sub-Section (1B) whenever a

contract provides a component of insurance such investments would be

excluded from the purview of the collective investment scheme. A document

is produced containing the terms of the contract which stipulates the benefit

of accident risk insurance coverage. Therefore the HMP scheme cannot be

termed as a collective investment scheme within the definition of sub-

Section (2) of Section 11AA of the Securities and Exchange Board of India

Act, 1992. 8) With reference to the interim order passed by the SEBI the learned

senior counsel referred to the provisions of Section 11B of the Securities and

Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, which reads as under. It is argued that the nature of interim order that the SEBI is

empowered to pass under Section 11B of the Securities and Exchange Board

of India Act, 1992 does not empower the SEBI to pass the ad interim order

in question. The provisions of Section 11B of the Act declare that an interim

order could be passed only after making or causing to be made an inquiry

and if the Board is satisfied the interim orders could be passed, however, in

this case the interim order passed is beyond the purview of the powers

invested under Section 11B and that ad interim order passed is made within

an enquiry coupled with the satisfaction of the Board. 9) The learned senior counsel further referred to the provisions of Section 11(4) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 which

are as follows. Proviso to sub-Section (1) of Section 11AA :- "Provided that any
 pooling of funds under any scheme or arrangement, which is not
 registered with the Board or is not covered under sub-section (3),
 involving a corpus amount of one hundred crore rupees or more shall be
 deemed to be a collective investment scheme". Proviso to sub-Section (2A) of Section 11AA :- "Any scheme or
 arrangement made or offered by any person satisfying the conditions
 as may be specified in accordance with the regulations made under this
 Act". It is argued that in the first place the amended provisions would not

apply to the case of the petitioner since the investments are all made prior to

the coming into force of the amended provisions, however, seriously

challenged the validity of the amended proviso to sub-Section(1) of Section

11AA on the ground that it militates against the provisions of sub-Section

(2) of Section 11AA which lays down the cumulative conditions to constitute

the collective investment scheme under the Act. The amendment which

incorporates proviso to sub-Section (1) of Section 11AA has overriding effect

and limits the effect and purport of the substantive provision in sub-Section

(2) of Section 11AA . In this regard it is argued that a proviso to a Section or

sub-Section should always be subordinate to the Section or sub-Section and

it cannot eclipse or override the contents of the Section or sub-Section. 27 Therefore the incorporation of proviso to sub-Section (1) of Section 11AA is

bad in law. In this regard the learned senior counsel relied on the decisions

of the Supreme Court in Dwarka Prasad v. Dwarka Prasad Saraf (1976) 1

SCC 128 para 16 to 21 ~ it is laid down that a proviso cannot expand or

limit the principal provision ~ Madhu Gopal v. VI Addl . Dist. Judge(1988) 4

SCC para 7 ~ it is laid down that a proviso cannot take away the substantive

rights conferred by the main provision ~ and J.K. Industries v. Chief

Inspector of Police (1996) 6 SCC 665 para 34 ~ it is laid down that a proviso

should not be read as providing something by an addition to the main

provision. Therefore the proviso which sweepingly encompasses any type of

investment in any scheme which is more than Rs 100 crore which is called

as collective investment scheme is illegal and bad in law. 12) The incorporated sub-Section 2A to Section 11A empowers the SEBI

to make regulations to lay down conditions in respect of any scheme or

arrangement. Such a power to make regulations suffers from vice of

excessive delegation. It is for the statute to lay down the conditions and

such a power cannot be delegated to levy. In this regard the learned senior

counsel relied on the decisions of the Supreme Court in Harishankar Bagka

and another v. State of Madhya Pradesh(1955) 1 SCR 380 para 9, and Hamdard Dawakhana v. Union of India (1960) 2 SCR 671 para 28 to 34. 28 13) Sri Somik Deb, the instructing counsel, submitted that under Section

19 when the SEBI has initiated proceedings therefore a single member could

not have passed the impugned order without a specific authorisation. The

impugned order does not refer to the grant of authorisation to the member

who passed the impugned order. In that view the impugned order suffers

from lack of jurisdiction. 14) Per contra, Smt. M. Hazarika, the counsel for the SEBI, repelling the

contentions raised by the learned senior counsel for the petitioner submitted

the following grounds. (i) In the first place the petitioner has not disclosed all relevant and

material facts; but belatedly filed the format of application for membership,

which contains the terms and conditions. (ii) It is admitted by the petitioner that out of 21.90 lakh investors

4.13 lakh of them have been refunded the deposited money with interest. (iii) The term "that the investor would avail the benefit of stay in a

hotel for a certain period on completion of the investment period" is nothing

but a camouflage and perfidious stipulation. The rate of interest offered on 29 the refund is very lucrative and attractive ~ 17.65 per cent per annum,

almost double the rate offered by banks on deposits! (iv) The averments made in the petition regarding the bona fide and

genuineness of the terms of the scheme are only self-serving statements;

there is no credible material placed to show about how many members have

actually availed the HMP benefit. (v) The stipulation which gives discretion to the petitioner to decide

the refund is only a make-believe stipulation to escape from the purview of

being called a collective investment scheme. (vi) The petitioner has not furnished all the names and identities of

all the investors to prove the bona fide and genuineness of the scheme and

how many members have subscribed to different categories of the scheme. (vii) The insurance component investment under the terms of the

scheme is only limited for 1 to 2 years whereas the scheme would be for 3 to

5 years. Copies of the insurance policy produced before the Court are vague;

it does not mention about who are the members covered by the policy. The

policy only mentions the number of persons covered under the insurance

but not the names and identities. (viii) The policy in respect of the 24.90 lakh investors is not produced

before the Court; only as a token a few vague insurance policies are

produced which do not contain the names and identities of the persons for

whose benefit the insured has taken the insurance. (ix) The terms regarding the coverage of accident insurance is only a

ploy devised by the petitioner to make-believe that the contract imbibes a

component of insurance only to escape from the clutches of law and avoid

the jurisdiction of the SEBI. 15) With regard to the directions issued in the impugned order the learned

counsel for the SEBI relied on Regulation 65 of the Securities and Exchange

Board of India(Collective Investment Schemes) Regulations, 1999, which

reads as follows. 16) The power given to the Board under the Regulations should be read in

conjunction with the powers given under Sections 11(4) and 11B of the Act.

The impugned order which puts restrictions on the petitioner is fully in

consonance with the provisions of Regulation 65. 17) The counsel for the SEBI produced a circular (no.SEBI/LAD/DRA-

II/242/2010 dated 3rd May, 2010) by which the powers under Sections 11(1) and 11B are delegated to be exercised by the whole-time member, therefore

submitted that the contention that the whole-time member has no power to

pass the impugned order is an untenable argument. The prayer in the writ

petition against the police not to investigate into the matter is untenable,

when the transactions in question constitute a crime the police will have the

jurisdiction to investigate, more so when an FIR is registered. In fact

petitioner's counsel did not focus this argument on this aspect. Opinion 18) It is admitted fact that there are 21.90 lakh investors under the HMP

scheme. The petitioner's company has produced only a format of an

application for subscriptions belatedly. The names and identities of all the

investors under the HMP scheme is not furnished. The terms of the scheme

give the benefit of holiday stay in the hotels to the members after they have

successfully paid the entire amount agreed under the scheme. In the

alternative the terms also enable the members to take refund of the amount 32 invested with interest at the rate of 17.6 per cent per annum. The terms of

the scheme disclose that the refund of deposited amount with interest will

be given if for any reason the member is not able to avail the benefit of stay

in the hotels and it is at the discretion of the petitioner. There is no material

before the court to show that all the investors who have become members

have invested only with a dominant intention of availing the benefit of the

stay or whether they were lured by an attractive rate of interest which is

almost double the banks' rate given on the deposits. The petitioner of course

states that because of some Ponzi schemes were exposed and CBI

investigations have been directed, therefore to save the morale of the

petitioner's company without hassles refunds have been made to four lakh

investors. 19) There is no credible material placed by the petitioner to convince the

court that all the members who have subscribed had the dominant intention

of enjoying the stay at the hotels. Only on the basis of the format of an

application for subscription of membership it cannot be conclusively held

that the scheme is only for enjoying the stay in the hotels. It could have

been held so if there was no alternative term of refund of deposit with a

lucrative rate of interest of 17.6 per cent per annum. This aspect of the

matter requires a detailed enquiry about the names and identities of all the

subscribers, their social status, their annual income, etc to find out how 33 many persons have genuinely subscribed for membership for availing the

benefit of stay in the hotel. On the basis of incoherent material produced by

the petitioner like format of the membership it is not possible to agree with

the contention that the scheme is only a holiday management scheme and

does not come under the purview of the collective investment scheme more

so because of the fact that there is a term in the contract of refund of money

with a lucrative rate of interest. If the interest on deposit was the alluring

factor on the part of the investors then the case would squarely fall under

sub-clause (ii) of sub- Section 2 of Section 11AA of the SEBI Act. These facts

constitute a mixed question of law and fact and has to be decided by SEBI. 20) We find that there was no difficulty for the petitioner to have

submitted to this jurisdiction of the SEBI and produced all the records to

convince the SEBI that the scheme is genuinely a holiday management

scheme and does not constitute a collective investment scheme and thus

could have excluded themselves from the jurisdiction of SEBI. 21) The second contention that the members under the scheme are

covered with accident insurance for a period of 1 to 2 years thus it is argued

that in view of the insurance component and in view of Explanation to sub-

Section (1B) of Section 12 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act,

1992 the scheme does not constitute collective investment scheme appears 34 to be untenable argument; the petitioner has not produce all the necessary

and credible material to show that the insurance coverage is genuine and it

covers all the investors. The holiday investment scheme ranges between 3 to

5 years, whereas the insurance coverage is only for 1 to 2 years. The entire

subscription period is not covered by the accident insurance. The petitioner

has not produced all the policies issued by the insurers in respect of all the

investors. Since the insurance certificates produced are vague and there is

no details of names and identities of the members whose risk is covered

under the said policies the plea of insurance accident coverage appears to be

a facade contrived by the petitioner to keep the scheme outside the

definition of the collective investment scheme so as to exempt itself from the

jurisdiction of SEBI and this aspect of dubious insurance coverage requires

an inquiry. 22) The authority of the Whole-time Member who passed the interim order

is challenged seriously on the ground that without having proper delegation

of powers the Whole-time Member alone could not have passed the interim

order when the SEBI has issued the notice. In reply to the said contention

the counsel for the SEBI has produced a notification issued by the SEBI

wherein the powers of the Board are delegated to the Whole-time Member

under Sections 11(1) , 11(3) , 11(4) and 11B of the SEBI Act, therefore the

third argument in this regard does not hold water. 23) With regard to the incorporation of proviso to sub-Section (1) of Section 11AA of the Act, though it has prospective effect, despite lengthy

arguments were canvassed it is the contention that the proviso incorporated

to sub-Section (1) of Section 11AA curtails and limits the substantive

provisions of sub-Section (2) of Section 11AA of the Act. In this regard it is

argued that any proviso to a Section or sub-Section which has effect of

expanding or limiting the principal provision or which frustrates the main

provision would be bad in law. The decisions of the Supreme Court in

Dwarka, Madhu, and JK Industries(supra) are relied on. 24) On the contrary, in CIT v. Jagannath Mahadeo Prasad(AIR 1969 SC 209) the Supreme Court in para 3 has made the following observations. 25) The Supreme Court in S. Sundaram Pillai and others v. V.R.

Pattabiraman and others [(1985) 1 SCC 591], after recording a catena of

decisions of the Supreme Court on the point, in para 43 summarises the

legal purport of the proviso for different purposes in the following manner. 26) The ratio laid down in Sundaram case(supra) is followed by the

Supreme Court in Swedish Match AB and another v. Securities & Exchange

Board of India and another [(2004) 11 SCC 641]. Similarly the Supreme

Court in Southern Petrochemical Industries Co Ltd v. Electricity Inspector

and E.T.I.O. and others (MANU/SC/2333/2007) has followed the ratio laid

down in Sundaram case(supra). In para 104 of the judgment the Supreme

Court has made the following observations. Therefore it is always the legislative policy to give a delegated power in every

enactment to the authorities to operate the provisions of the Act. Such a

provision in itself cannot be considered illegal unless any regulation or rule

is made by the delegated authority is in conflict with the main provision

then such regulation can be held bad. The power to lay down the conditions

regarding the scheme or arrangement in the context of the provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 and the subjects it deals

with cannot be considered as uncanalised and excessive delegation. In that

view of the matter the writ petition is dismissed.