. The Arbitration Petition No.361 of 2011 is filed by the
 Petitioner- Dirk India Private Ltd against the Respondent- Maharashtra
 State Electricity Generation Company Ltd. The petitioner challenges the ::: Downloaded on - 25/07/2014 23:50:01 ::: ppn 3 arbp-361.11 wt 695.11.doc

 award of the Arbitral Tribunal dated 30 March 2011. By the impugned

 
 award, the Arbitral Tribunal rejected the claim made by the Petitioner.
 The main prayer of the Petitioner was to set aside the notice dated 23

 
 November 2006 issued by the Respondent, terminating the agreement
 between the parties, and to direct the Respondent to specifically perform
 the agreement dated 4 October 2000, and the terms and conditions of

 
 the minutes dated 11 April 2005, with certain particulars. The Petitioner
 had also claimed various other reliefs, including a prayer for damages. 2. Arbitration Petition No.695 of 2011 is filed by the
 
 Maharashtra State Power Generation Company Limited against the Dirk
 India Private Limited challenging the same award passed by the Arbitral
 
 Tribunal, to the extent that it relates to the dismissal of its counter claim.
 The petitioner-Maharashtra State Power Generation Company Limited
 had sought damages from the Dirk India Private Limited. 3. Since both the petitions, filed under Section 34 of the
 Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996, have arisen from the same

 arbitral award, they were heard together and are disposed of by this
 common judgment. 4. The Dirk India Private Limited (Dirk India) is a company

 incorporated under the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 . It is part
 of a group of companies based in United Kingdom. It specializes in
 recycling by-products generated by thermal power stations. Dirk group
 of companies use Pulverised Fly Ash, which is a waste product generated
 in coal fired thermal power stations to manufacture cement replacement ::: Downloaded on - 25/07/2014 23:50:01 ::: ppn 4 arbp-361.11 wt 695.11.doc

 material under the brand name of 'Pozzocrete.' The Maharashtra State

 
 Electricity Generation Company Limited (Mahgenco), which was earlier
 known as Maharashtra State Electricity Board, is a government company

 
 incorporated under the Companies Act, 1956 . Mahgenco has various
 thermal power plants, one of which is Nashik Thermal Power Station,
 Eklahare, Nashik. 5. The disputes between the parties relate to Nashik Thermal

 
 Power Station (NTPS). The NTPS uses coal as fuel for generation of
 electricity. Coal is burnt in a boiler with the help of air supplied by fans. The waste product is ash. The ash generated is of two types. One is
 Furnace Bottom Ash comprising of coarse ash. Second is Pulverized Fly
 
 Ash (PFA). Due to the heat and the air circulation of the fans used at the
 power station, PFA which is a fine ash, rises to the top of boilers. The
 Bottom Ash generated is mixed with water and converted into a slurry. This slurry is then pumped out from the bottom of the boilers and is
 

 disposed off in an Ash lagoon. The Bottom Ash is generally about 20% of
 the total ash. The PFA which rises to the top of the boilers is trapped by

 Electrostatic Precipitators (ESPs) installed along the outer sides of the
 boilers. Each particle of PFA has a small electric charge. The ESPs are
 rows of large plates made of copper, each carrying an electric current of
 varying intensity. If the PFA escapes in the air, it being very fine, can

 cause serious atmospheric pollution. Traditionally Individual contractors
 were lifting a small quantity of waste fly ash from NTPS, while most of
 the ash was being washed away into the lagoon or escape into the air.
 This was the position when the parties negotiated an agreement in
 respect of the PFA. ppn 5 arbp-361.11 wt 695.11.doc 6. Negotiations culminated into an agreement between Dirk

 
 India and the MSEB on 4 October 2000. In the recital of the agreement
 it was stated that the MSEB was interested in disposal of PFA to avoid

 
 atmospheric pollution. MSEB was satisfied about the capacity of Dirk
 India to make cement substitute products from PFA, and that MSEB
 agreed to supply PFA to Dirk India for manufacturing Pozzocrete on the

 
 terms and conditions specified in the agreement. 7. Pursuant to the agreement, Dirk India was allotted a piece
 of land for installing their ash and processing plant and machinery at
 
 some distance from the NTPS. Dirk India complained that no valid lease
 deed was executed in its favour, and no right or title was created, which
 
 made it difficult to raise finances. Dirk India commenced construction
 of the Ash Handling plant (PFA plant) on the land demarcated by
 Mahgenco. Between October 2000 and April 2002, issue arose as to
 

 whether the land allotted to Dirk India was 'forest', also issues regarding
 

 construction and maintenance of the direct approach road, and shifting
 of high tension wires. Around April 2001, Dirk India erected one Silo. Silos/hoppers are receptors for collection of ash. As further narration
 would show, a serious dispute arose between the parties as regards these
 Silos/Hoppers. According to Mahgenco, Dirk India was supposed to
 create four large hoppers. According to Dirk India, hoppers could not be

 created since system of delivery of PFA was not provided by Mahgenco
 and the locations of the hoppers were not specified. On 24 January 2005,
 PFA Plant put up by Dirk India was inaugurated. The dispute regarding
 collection of PFA however remained unresolved. A meeting took place
 on 11 April 2005, between the Chairman of Mahgenco and Chairman ::: Downloaded on - 25/07/2014 23:50:01 ::: ppn 6 arbp-361.11 wt 695.11.doc

 of Dirk India, and others and certain agreement was reached. This

 
 agreement was also acted upon later. Dirk India made an additional
 investment of Rs.5 crores for processing the PFA from NTPS, and also

 
 made other investments. 8. Between January 2006 to March 2006, Mahgenco addressed

 
 letters to Dirk India stating that Dirk India failed to collect the
 required quantity of PFA and unless that was done, Mahgenco would
 deny the facility of collecting the PFA. By letter dated 23 November

 
 2006, Mahgenco purported to terminate the agreement between the
 
 parties. Dirk India was called upon to remove the plant and machinery
 and to hand over the vacant possession of the PFA plant site. By letter
 
 dated 1 December 2006, the Dirk India replied to the notice dated 23
 November 2006. 9. On 13 December 2006, Dirk India filed a petition in this
 

 Court under Section 9 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 for
 interim protection. On 22 December 2006, the Court passed an order
 permitting Dirk India to collect the PFA in the same manner before the

 termination notice was issued. It was directed that if Mahgenco found
 that Dirk India was not able to lift the entire PFA, Mahgenco was
 permitted to take the PFA to the lagoon, and other consequential

 directions were also issued. The arbitration petition thereafter came up
 for hearing and it was disposed of on 8 March 2007, restraining
 Mahgenco from selling or delivering PFA to the strangers or otherwise
 disposing of the same, without first offering it to Dirk India, to the extent
 of 3000 MT/day. If Dirk India failed to remove PFA to the extent
 specified within 24 hours, the Mahgenco was free to dispose of the ::: Downloaded on - 25/07/2014 23:50:01 ::: ppn 7 arbp-361.11 wt 695.11.doc

 PFA. Mahgenco was restrained from dispossessing the plant and

 
 machinery of Dirk India and from taking such coercive actions. An
 Arbitral Tribunal of three Arbitrators, senior retired judges was

 
 constituted. On 10 September 2007, Dirk India filed it's claim.
 Mahgenco filed it's Say and also filed it's counter claim. 10. This is briefly how the dispute came to be referred for
 arbitration. Both sides presented their version before the arbitrators. In

 
 following paragraphs, the case of each side, as it appears in the pleadings,
 is reproduced in brief. 11. The case of Dirk India : Accordingly, Dirk India wrote a follow-up letter dated 28 March 2001 to
 the Technical Director and informed him that on 24 March 2001 Dirk
 India had been requested by the Manager of NTPS to have a meeting with

 Dirk India's Technical Design Staff to explain the design proposal for the
 Dense Phase Conveying System meant for NTPS; (d) Dirk India received a letter dated 3 May 2001 from the Technical
 Director in reply to Dirk India's letter dated 31 March 2001 wherein it
 was alleged that the detailed equipment lay-out is not submitted by Dirk ::: Downloaded on - 25/07/2014 23:50:01 ::: ppn 9 arbp-361.11 wt 695.11.doc

 India even after repeated requests of the Chief Engineer of Mahgenco. The drawings had been given to Mahgenco on 23 January 2001. As per
 clause 3.2 of the agreement dated 4 October 2000 between the parties,

 
 Dirk India had an exclusive right to receive from Mahgenco the entire
 PFA from the ESPs. Mahgenco was required to deposit the PFA in the
 Hoppers constructed by Dirk India within the precincts of the NTPS in

 
 accordance with clause 3.1 of the said agreement; (e) Mahgenco did not commence construction of the Dense Phase
 Conveying System. By their letters dated 12 August 2002 and 19 August
 
 2002, Mahgenco alleged that Dirk India was not lifting the contracted
 quantities of PFA, and sought a schedule of installation, completion of the
 
 plant and machineries plans for lifting fly ash. Dirk India at its own costs
 constructed one Silo, into which Mahgenco was required to deliver the
 PFA. Mahgenco did not deliver the PFA into the Silo erected by Dirk
 

 India. Consequently, Dirk India did not erect the Hoppers. As Mahgenco
 

 was not attempting to construct a Dense Phase Conveying System in
 order to deliver the PFA to Dirk India as per the said Agreement, at an

 unforeseen extra cost, Dirk India resorted to a system for manual removal
 of the PFA; (f) At the request of Mahgenco, Dirk India installed valves being

 opened at the bottom of the ESPs and the PFA was manually removed.
 This process was laborious, environmentally not desirable and slow and
 is not designed to handle all fly ash generated. Between 2002-2005, Dirk
 India continued to invest their own funds in the project and by early 2005
 reached an overall investment of Rs.25,00,00,000/- (Rupees Twenty Five
 Crores only). On 20 October 2004, a meeting was held between the ::: Downloaded on - 25/07/2014 23:50:01 ::: ppn 10 arbp-361.11 wt 695.11.doc

 officers of Mahgenco and the representatives of Dirk India. It was agreed

 
 that Dirk India will pay at the rate of Rs.30/- per metric ton of Pozzocrete
 produced by Dirk India, and Mahgenco would rebuild the public road

 
 connecting the Nashik-Pune Road with the Village of Eklahare and Dirk
 India's plant. On 24 January 2005, Dirk India inaugurated the extension
 of the PFA plant put up by them; (g) A meeting was held on April 11, 2005 at the Head Quarters of

 
 Mahgenco at Mumbai, which was attended, by the Chairman of
 Mahgenco and the Chairman of Dirk India's group of companies, and
 
 other officials from both sides. Minutes of meeting served as an
 explanation to the original Agreement. It was agreed that Dirk India
 
 would erect the remaining three Silos/Hoppers to meet a completion date
 of the promised PFA supply system, which Mahgenco promised to build
 without delay. Mahgenco however did not install the PFA supply system
 

 viz. the Dense Phase Conveying System and alleged that this should have
 

 to be done by Dirk India; (h) During January 2006 to March 2006, Dirk India received letters
 from Mahgenco in which they alleged that Dirk India was to build the
 Dense Phase Conveying System and that Dirk India had failed to do so.
 Dirk India is, always was and is now ready and willing to perform its part

 of the said Agreement and Dirk India also has performed its part of the
 said Agreement. Therefore, the purported termination of the agreement
 and the demand to hand over the land, plant and machinery was
 unjustified and illegal. (a) Mahgenco allotted and handed over a plot of land admeasuring

 
 2500 sq. mtrs. to Dirk India for installation of dry fly ash handing system.
 Dirk India gave up its claim for a lease and in the year 2002 itself the
 clause pertaining to sublease stood altered. Dirk India insisted on

 
 electricity supply without security deposit, which was contrary to the
 rules. Dirk India did not make the deposit and did not comply with the

 
 formalities, till 2004. It failed to erect all four hoppers as agreed by it vide
 clause 3.1 till date, save and except one Silo; (b) According to clause 3.1 and 3.2, Dirk India was to erect four
 
 hoppers and Mahgenco was to provide PFA, into these hoppers. As Dirk
 India failed to erect the four hoppers, the question of Mahgenco providing
 PFA to hoppers did not arise. Mahgenco never agreed to erect any PFA
 

 Collection System to Dirk India's hoppers. Dirk India agreed to install the
 

 Dry Ash Collection System and submitted drawings and description of
 mechanical Dry Ash Collection System in the meeting dated 23 January

 2001. In a meeting dated 31 March 2001, Mahgenco approved Dirk
 India's proposal to install dry ash collection system and silos i.e. hoppers
 at Unit No.4 and 5 at Stage 2; (c) In the meeting dated 11 April 2005, Dirk India agreed that it would
 not insist for a lease, and agreed that it had exclusive right on entire PFA
 generated, only if it invested Rs.5 crores for processing the Dry PFA.
 Dirk India again agreed to erect remaining three hoppers with a
 completion date of the supply system, which Mahgenco would install. ppn 12 arbp-361.11 wt 695.11.doc

 Therefore unless Dirk India commenced construction of silos/hoppers,

 
 there was no question of Mahgenco arranging a supply system.
 Mahgenco made a reciprocal promise contingent upon Dirk India's

 
 erection of hoppers/silos. The Chairman of Mahgenco did not sign the
 minutes and no proposal in terms of minutes was ever finalized. The
 Board did not approve the proposal. Minutes were not acted upon; (d) In the one silo constructed by Dirk India, Dirk India was pouring

 
 the collected PFA into grades, and it was using only fine quality of the
 ash, and the reminder was discharged in lagoon. Dirk India manually
 
 collected PFA in large polythene bags. The bags were placed haphazardly,
 causing a spillage, which went into the gutters and choked them. Dirk
 
 India implemented the agreement as per its convenience and the
 agreement was not workable. The intention of Mahgenco behind the
 Agreement was to dispose the PFA and not earn income; (e) Mahgenco gave a legal notice on 13 March 2006 stating reasons
 and thereafter terminated the Agreement vide notice dated 23 November

 2006. The agreement was validly terminated. The clause 11 of the
 contract contemplated termination by either party without giving any
 reasons. Dirk India caused serious damage to the plant and machinery of
 NTPS and extra expenses had to be incurred for repairs, replacements,

 and for employing additional manpower, and Mahgenco is entitled to the
 damages to the tune of Rs.1867.58 lakhs with interest @ 18 % p.a. 13. With these pleadings Dirk India made it's claim. Mahgenco
 replied to the claim and made a counter claim of damages. The parties ::: Downloaded on - 25/07/2014 23:50:01 ::: ppn 13 arbp-361.11 wt 695.11.doc

 filed rejoinders and replies. On 19 December 2007 the Arbitrators

 
 framed 22 issues. Parties led evidence accordingly. Dirk India examined
 Mr.George Dirk, it's Chairman, as its witness. Mahgenco examined

 
 Mr.R.G. Morale, an engineer, as its witness. Evidence before the Arbitral
 Tribunal was concluded on 16 December 2009. After conclusion of the
 oral arguments, parties filed written statement in January 2010. Thereafter, the impugned award came to be passed on 31 March 2011.
 The claim of Dirk India and the counter claim of Mahgenco were

 
 dismissed. Both are aggrieved by dismissal of their claim and counter
 claim respectively and have filed the present petitions. 14. I have heard Mr. Rafiq Dada, learned Senior Advocate for
 
 Dirk India and Mr. Aspi Chinoy and Mr. D.D. Madon, learned Senior
 Advocates with Mr. S.S. Kulkarni, Advocate, for Mahgenco. 15. The learned counsel made submissions in extentio. It is
 

 however necessary to keep in mind the scope of challenge under Section
 34 of the Act lest it becomes an exercise of an appellate power. It is trite
 to state that the petition under Section 34 of the Act is not an appeal

 and the merits of the award cannot be examined exercising appellate
 powers. The scope of enquiry lies in a narrow field. The scope of scrutiny
 under Section 34 is a subject matter of various judicial pronouncements. The review of the decisions would indicate that the Court leans in favour
 of confirming the arbitral award. There are however certain situations
 where the Court exercises powers under Section 34 of the Act to set aside
 the award. Therefore, unless a petitioner brings its case within the
 available grounds, the petitioner cannot succeed. ppn 14 arbp-361.11 wt 695.11.doc 16. In the case of Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Ltd. Vs.

 
 Saw Pipes Ltd.1 , the Apex Court took a review of the decisions as regards
 the enquiry under Section 34 and observed paragraphs in 22, 55, 56, 60

 
 and 74 as under :- **** 56. Dealing with the similar question, this Court in Alopi
 Parshad & Sons Ltd. v. The Union of India observed that the
 extent of jurisdiction of the Court to set aside the award on
 the ground of an error in making the award is well defined
 and held thus (AIR p.592 para 16):-- 10. In Arosan Enterprises Ltd. v. Union of India
 AIR1999SC3804 , this Court again examined this
 matter and stated that where the error of finding of
 

 fact having a bearing on the award is patent and is
 easily demonstrable without the necessity of carefully
 

 weighing the various possible viewpoints, the
 interference in the award based on an erroneous
 finding of fact is permissible and similarly, if an
 award is based by applying a principle of law which

 is patently erroneous, and but for such erroneous
 application of legal principle, the award could not
 have been made, such award is liable to be set aside
 by holding that there has been a legal misconduct on

 the part of the arbitrator." **** 74. In the result, it is held that:-- However, exception for setting aside the award on the ground
 of composition of arbitral tribunal or illegality of arbitral
 procedure is that the agreement should not be in conflict with

 the provisions of Part-I of the Act from which parties cannot
 derogate. (c) If the award passed by the arbitral tribunal is in
 contravention of provisions of the Act or any other
 substantive law governing the parties or is against the terms
 of the contract. (3) The award could be set aside if it is against the public ::: Downloaded on - 25/07/2014 23:50:01 ::: ppn 19 arbp-361.11 wt 695.11.doc

 policy of India, that is to say, if it is contrary to:-- 17. In the case of McDermott International INC. Vs. Burn
 Standard Co. Ltd. and Others.2 , the Apex Court observed as under :- 18. The issue as to whether an award containing perverse
 conclusions and findings on wrong basis could be set aside, and came
 up for consideration before the Apex Court in the case of ONGC Limited
 2 (2006) 11 Supreme Court Cases 181 ::: Downloaded on - 25/07/2014 23:50:01 ::: ppn 20 arbp-361.11 wt 695.11.doc

 Vs. Garware Shipping Corporation Limited3. The Apex Court held :- 19. There are various decisions of the Apex Court and this

 
 Court, indicating the narrow compass within which the Court must
 
 consider the challenge to the award. It is not necessary to burden the
 record with series of judgments on that proposition, as there is no dispute
 
 about that legal position, at the bar. 20. Mr. Rafiq Dada, learned Senior Advocate has sought to
 

 bring the challenge of Dirk India under the following heads in support of
 

 his contentions in Arbitration Petition No.361 of 2011. made by the parties and it contains no reason for accepting and not

 accepting the submissions; d) The arbitrators have simply ignored the material produced on
 record, or relied on material never existed and did not carry out any
 enquiry; framed were abandoned without notice, which has resulted in the

 
 arbitrators missing the key issues to be decided. 21. The response of Mr. Chinoy, learned Senior Advocate is
 that no case is made out for invoking the limited grounds of challenge
 available. According to him, Dirk India seeks to challenge the award on

 
 merits, which is impermissible. According to Mr. Chinoy, the contentions
 of Dirk India are contrary to the contract and the award discloses no

 
 error of law. It was not necessary for the Arbitrators to write a detailed
 and elaborate judgment, and since it is found that 22 issues framed
 
 earlier were superfluous, they were narrowed down to 5 key issues. It is
 clear that Dirk India failed to perform it's part of the contract, contract
 
 was rightly terminated, therefore no elaborate award was necessary. 22. The first ground of challenge is that the arbitrators did not
 

 decide the real dispute in question and decided something which is
 

 not in dispute between the parties. If this is shown to be correct, it is an
 available ground of challenge. For this purpose, it would be necessary

 to appreciate the exact controversy between the parties. The dispute
 arose and centered around the clauses of the contract. The relevant
 clauses are as under: Perusal of the above clauses shows that as per clause 2.2, Dirk

 India was to construct a PFA handling plant which was to be at some
 distance away from NTPS. The place was defined as the 'Site.' The
 Dirk India was also to construct four hoppers for collection of PFA
 within the precinct of NTPS. 23. Therefore, three different locations were contemplated. ppn 24 arbp-361.11 wt 695.11.doc (i) NTPS where PFA was being generated; (ii) location of four hoppers

 
 which were to be constructed within the precinct of NTPS;(iii) the site of
 PFA plant, which was some distance away. There were two stages of

 
 transportation of PFA. (a) ESP to hoppers (clause 3.2); and (b) From
 hoppers to the PFA plant (clause 3.5). 24. According to Dirk India, the PFA was to be transported by
 Dense Phase Conveying System to the central point of collection of

 
 silo or hopper made for storage, that is stage (a). According to Dirk
 India, Dense Phase Conveying System was to be built by Mahgenco. According to Dirk India, every other thermal station has a Dense Phase
 Conveying System. Since inspite their responsibility under the agreement
 
 no such facility was provided by Mahgenco, a meeting was held on 11
 April 2005 when it was agreed that Mahgenco had to build such supply
 system. Since the supply system was not built, Dirk India could not
 

 collect the stipulated quantity of PFA and since there were various
 

 breaches of the contract by Mahgenco itself, the action of terminating
 the contract was illegal. According to Dirk India, it had constructed a

 small silo and unless Mahgenco specified where the other hoppers were
 to be constructed, they could not be constructed. Therefore, the PFA was
 manually constructed. So, according to Dirk India, the main failure on
 the part of Mahgenco was not providing the facility for collecting the

 PFA and, therefore, four hoppers could not be constructed. Only when
 the PFA would be collected in these four hoppers, it was to be
 transported to PFA plant i.e. stage (b) and responsibility of transporting
 at stage (b) was of Dirk India. So, according to Dirk India, it was the
 responsibility of Mahgenco to provide delivery system for PFA to be ::: Downloaded on - 25/07/2014 23:50:01 ::: ppn 25 arbp-361.11 wt 695.11.doc

 brought to the hoppers under stage (a). Mahgenco controverted the

 
 assertions of Dirk India. It was their contention that Dirk India
 constructed only one silo/hopper but failed to construct other three

 
 hoppers and, did not collect the requisite amount of PFA. According to
 Mahgenco, unless Dirk India commenced construction of the hoppers,
 there was no question of a supply system for stage (a). 25. So the pleading of the parties clearly indicated that the
 dispute was whose responsibility it was to create a methodology for

 
 collection of transport of PFA from ESP to Hoppers to be constructed
 
 nearby i.e. for the stage (a). It was never disputed by Dirk India that
 the transport from the Hoppers to its PFA plant-stage (b) was the
 
 responsibility of Dirk India, and it was being done by plying trucks.
 When the parties led their evidence before the arbitral tribunal, this
 position came more in sharp focus. 26. Mr. Dirk on behalf of M/s. Dirk India in his deposition
 reiterated that since Mahgenco did not make any arrangement to deliver
 the PFA from hoppers to be constructed stage (a), and the location for

 other hoppers were not specified, a small silo was built. He said that it
 was not possible for Dirk India to collect adequate amount of PFA,
 without resorting to manual collection. He asserted that it was the

 obligation of Mahgenco to deliver the PFA into hoppers of Dirk India
 and for that purpose, Mahgenco had to install Dense Phase Conveying
 System which they failed. Mr. Dirk was cross-examined extensively. In
 the cross-examination, various suggestions were given. Mahgenco
 examined it's engineer Mr. R.J. Morale. Mr. Morale specifically averred
 that Dirk India erected only one silo and it failed to erect remaining ::: Downloaded on - 25/07/2014 23:50:01 ::: ppn 26 arbp-361.11 wt 695.11.doc

 hoppers. He specifically stated that as per clause 3.2 of the agreement,

 
 Mahgenco was to deliver the PFA to Dirk India's hoppers, which were
 never constructed. There was no question of construction of a delivery

 
 system and Mahgenco was under no legal obligation to provide a PFA
 delivery system. He stated that the erection of a delivery system without
 any hoppers would have been a meaningless exercise. He stated that

 
 primary default was on the part of Dirk India in not constructing the four
 hoppers. It is to be noted that all these assertions were regarding stage (a). 27. Thus the dispute between the parties was regarding PFA
 
 was to be delivered from ESP to the hoppers, that is stage (a). To repeat
 clause 3.2 and clause 3.5 covered different transportation stages. Clause
 
 3.2 was for stage (a) ESP to the hoppers. Clause 3.5 was for stage (b)
 hoppers to the PFA plant. The term 'Site' meant where the PFA plant
 was constructed. It is clear from the pleadings of the parties and evidence
 

 that the controversy is surrounded itself as regards the obligations under
 

 clause 3.2. As a corollary, various issues arose : whether it was the
 obligation of Dirk India; whether Dirk India was to first construct the

 hoppers then delivery system was to be constructed; whether Mahgenco
 was right that without hoppers there could be no delivery; whether since
 the Dirk India installed only one silo and did not collect requisite
 amount of PFA there was a breach of contract; whether it was the

 responsibility of Mahgenco to construct a Dense Phase Conveying
 System; whether it was the responsibility of Dirk India to construct the
 Dry Ash System. 28. Mr. Dada submitted that the Arbitrators completely ::: Downloaded on - 25/07/2014 23:50:01 ::: ppn 27 arbp-361.11 wt 695.11.doc

 confused the two stages of transportation, and purported to decide a

 
 dispute as regards stage (b) which never existed, and used those
 conclusions to hold against Dirk India. If the following passages from

 
 the award are perused, the submission has merit. 29. The relevant findings from the award are reproduced below: Inspite of this crystal clear term of the contract, it was
 
 brazenly pleaded by the company that the responsibility of
 supplying PFA was that of Genco. Mr. Dirk in his affidavit
 in evidence has also stated on oath that it was so. Even
 
 during the course of argument on 16.11.2009 the Claimant
 tendered before us as many as 19 proved documents
 relating to delivery of pulverized fly ash. A communication
 dated 26th February, 2001 issued within 3 months of the
 contract whereby it was specifically brought to the notice of
 

 the company that the transportation of PFA was to be
 

 arranged by the company and yet it was claimed by the
 letter correspondence that the responsibility was of the
 Genco and not the company. Thereafter on 31st March,
 2001 a letter was addressed by the Claimant to the

 Respondent stating although the contract does not require
 it, the Claimant was transporting the PFA to its plant. This
 claim in writing is on the face of it contrary to the
 provisions of clause 3.5 of the agreement as quoted above. x x x 25. It must be noticed that the basic purpose of entering
 into this contract was to provide a permanent solution to
 environmental pollution in the matter of PFA and therefore
 by this contract the Genco agreed to give free of cost supply
 of PFA to the Claimant deliver the PFA into the hoppers/
 silo of the company erected by the company at the site of
 Genco. The responsibility to carry it from there to the
 Pozocrette plant was squarely that of the company as will
 be seen from clause 3.5 of quoted above. This was never ::: Downloaded on - 25/07/2014 23:50:01 ::: ppn 30 arbp-361.11 wt 695.11.doc

 done and then the Claimant comes up with the theory of
 amendment of the contract by the meeting dated 11th April,

 
 2005. According to the pleading and evidence of the
 Claimant the responsibility of transportation of PFA from

 
 NTPS plant to Pozocrette plant was always that of Genco,
 if this is factually proved by the terms of the contract then
 there was no need to show that the responsibility of
 transportation of PFA was shifted from Genco to Claimant

 
 by amendment of the agreement. This obvious change in the
 stance of the Claimant Company proves beyond doubt that
 even according to the company the responsibility of
 transportation of PFA was that of the Claimant Company

 
 till 11th April, 2005. There is nothing on record to show
 that anything substantial in this regard was undertaken by
 
 the company to perform its part of the contract. According
 to us there is a gross failure to perform an all important
 term of the contract by the company by not doing anything
 
 for transportation of PFA from its Silos in the NTPS to its
 silos in the Pozocrette plant. It cannot therefore be said that
 Genco avoided its responsibility of delivering PFA. In our
 opinion, the Respondent Genco has completely proved one
 valid reason for termination of contract namely non
 

 transportation of PFA in agreed quantities from NTPS plant
 

 to Pozocrette plant to prevent pollution for a continuous
 period of 4 years." x x x 30. Perusal of the above mentioned passages would show that

 the Arbitrators repeatedly referred to clause 3.5 which places
 responsibility on Dirk India to carry PFA from hoppers to PFA plant i.e.
 stage (b). In para 22, they hold that clause 3.5 puts everything beyond

 dispute. They hold that Dirk India brazenly avoided it's obligation by
 relying on clause 3.5. The reference to and the reliance on clause 3.5 runs
 through the entire reasoning and often gets intermixed with the obligation
 under clause 3.2. With respect, the Arbitrators completely got tangled in
 these two different stages. There was no dispute as regards obligation
 of Dirk India under clause 3.5 [stage (b)] neither Dirk India asserted so ::: Downloaded on - 25/07/2014 23:50:01 ::: ppn 31 arbp-361.11 wt 695.11.doc

 therefore, there was no question of its denial by Mahgenco. The

 
 arbitrators in the award again and again go back to clause 3.5. Mr.
 Chinoy contended that the reference to clause 3.5 by the Arbitrators is

 
 only to hold that it was the responsibility of Dirk India to transport the
 PFA. He submitted that it includes responsibility under clause 3.2 as well.
 According to him, the finding under clause 3.5 will not detract from the

 
 finding as regards the basic obligation to transport the PFA. 31. When the contract stipulated different kinds of obligations
 for different stages of transport and the parties knew that was to be so,
 
 the decision of the arbitrators ought to have on those lines. If one looks
 the passages from the award culled out above again, the Arbitrators
 
 have not made any distinction between the transport for stage (a) and
 stage (b). The arbitrators hold that it is the responsibility of Dirk India
 to transport from PFA to PFA plant and it could do so by installing a
 

 convener system, tankers or trucks. When Dirk India was manually
 

 collecting the PFA, it was transporting it by trucks from NTPS plant
 to its PFA plant. That it was the responsibility of Dirk India to

 transport from hoppers to its PFA plant, at the cost of repetition, was not
 disputed by anybody. The Arbitrators brought on to themselves to
 decide an issue which was never in dispute. There is confusion as
 regards the distinct responsibilities of the parties in respect of two

 distinct stages of transportation. The Arbitrators imposed a denial of
 obligation for stage (b) on the part of Dirk India and then castigated it
 for the denial. 32. Now it will have to be considered whether findings on ::: Downloaded on - 25/07/2014 23:50:01 ::: ppn 32 arbp-361.11 wt 695.11.doc

 clause 3.5 and 3.2 can be severed. In my opinion, it is not possible. There is total confusion between the two stages of transportation. This
 confusion again and again appears in the award and it is so intrinsically

 
 mixed with the findings that it is very difficult to hold that even if the
 observations as regards clause 3.5 is kept aside, rest of the reasoning
 was the adjudication of the dispute between the parties. This flaw

 
 permeates through the entire fabric of the award and vitiates it. Failure to
 distinguish between two stages of transportation was a fundamental

 
 failure. Though there is a finding that Dirk India failed to lift the PFA
 from ESP by not constructing hoppers on the site, it is based on a wrong
 
 clause of the contract. To put in short, the responsibility for stage (a)-
 the real dispute, is decided by adjudicating the clause governing stage (b). In a petition under Section 34 of the Act, it may not be possible to
 test the merits of the award, but once it is found that outcome is a result
 of adjudication of dispute which never arose, then it will be a
 

 fundamental flaw. If the flaw is so fundamental and intermixed, then
 

 the entire award will be vitiated and cannot stand. 33. Having dealt with the part where the Arbitrators decided the
 issue which never arose, now to the issues which arose but were not
 decided. Disputes was : whether hoppers had to be constructed first or
 whether the location had to be provided first; whether Dense Phase

 Conveying System had to be constructed; what is the effect of minutes
 of meeting of 11 April 2005, whether it constituted an amendment or
 not, whether it confirmed the obligations or whether new obligations
 were cast; whether Dirk India had to provide a Dry Ash system. ppn 33 arbp-361.11 wt 695.11.doc 34. According to Dirk India, hoppers could not have been

 
 constructed before the Supply System and specifications of the location
 were given. According to Mahgenco, Dirk India had to first construct

 
 four hoppers which they did not do, and they did not collect the PFA.
 The parties led evidence at great length on these issues. When 22 issues
 framed earlier by the Arbitrators, two issues were included in it. First,

 
 whether Mahgenco was under an obligation to provide Dense Phase
 Conveying System, and for delivery of PFA to the hoppers. Second

 
 issue was whether Dirk India agreed to install dry fly ash collection
 system. There was an another issue as to whether Dirk India had
 
 committed breach of contract by erecting one hopper out of four. 35. The Arbitrators straightaway went to the issue whether Dirk
 India committed any breach by not collecting the PFA, but with no
 consideration of the issue as regards the Dense Phase Conveying System. These issues could not have been separated. Whether there was an
 

 obligation to construct a Dense Phase Conveying System or not, was an
 equally vital issue to be considered. These vital issues were not decided

 as the Arbitrators found that the admission of Dirk India was enough,
 and the clause 3.5 was clear. 36. Mr. Dada made a grievance that 22 issues framed earlier,

 however at the time of writing the award, after the matter was closed,
 were re-cast and most of the issues were dropped and only four issues
 were framed. 22 issues which were framed are as under : - " Settled Issues 1. Whether the Respondent has committed breach of the
 Agreement by failing and neglecting to execute and register a ::: Downloaded on - 25/07/2014 23:50:01 ::: ppn 34 arbp-361.11 wt 695.11.doc

 proper lease deed in respect of land admeasuring 19,000 sq.
 meters on which the plant of the Claimant is put up, as alleged

 
 in paragraph 22 of the Statement of Claim? 2. Whether the Claimant gave up its claim to sub-lease and
 the clause relating to sub-lease stood altered in the year 2002,
 as alleged in paragraph 5.2.3 of the Written Statement? 3. Whether the Respondent caused delay and obstructions

 
 in the construction and installation of the plant by the Claimant,
 as alleged in paragraph 23 of the Statement Claim? 4. Whether the Respondent is under an obligation to build

 
 and provide a Dense Phase Conveying System at its cost in
 order to deliver the PFA in the Hopper of the Claimant, as
 
 alleged in paragraph 17 of the Statement of claim? 5. Whether the Claimant agreed to install Dry Ash
 
 Collection System as alleged in paragraph 5.4.4 of the Written
 Statement? 6. Whether from the date of the commencement of the
 Agreement, till date, the Claimant has failed to lift the agreed
 

 quantum of PFA, as alleged in paragraph 5.5.1 of the Written
 

 Statement? 7. Whether the Claimant committed breach of contract by
 erecting only one hopper out of four and whether question of

 providing PFA to hoppers did not arise as alleged in paragraph
 5.4.2 and 6.2 of the Written Statement? 8. Whether there is mishandling PFA by the Claimant as
 alleged in paragraph 5.6.2 of the Written Statement? 9. Whether the Claimant has exclusive right to receive from
 the Respondent the entire PFA from the Electro Static
 Precipitators of Unit Nos. 1 to 5 of NTPS belonging to the
 Respondent, as alleged in paragraph 29 of the Statement of
 Claim? 10. Whether the Respondent committed breach of contract
 by permitting third parties to lift the PFA at the NTPS, as ::: Downloaded on - 25/07/2014 23:50:01 ::: ppn 35 arbp-361.11 wt 695.11.doc

 alleged in paragraph 67 of the Statement of Claim? 11. Whether the contract is validity terminated as alleged in
 paragraph 50 of the Written Statement? 12. Whether the Claimant is entitled to specific
 performance of the Agreement dated 4th October 2000 and of
 Minutes of Meeting dated 11th April 2005, as sought in prayer

 
 (B) and (C) of the Statement of Claim? 13. Whether in addition to the claim for specific
 performance, the Claimant is entitled to damages in the sum of

 
 Rs. 63,31,070 on account of installation of additional valves
 and third party lifting the PFA, as alleged in paragraph 83 of
 
 the Statement of Claim? 14. Whether the Claimant is entitled to damages in addition
 
 to the claim of Specific Performance: As alleged in paragraph 84 of the Statement of Claim? 15. Whether, in the alternative to the relief of specific
 performance, the Claimant is entitled to a sum of Rs.142, 33,
 

 87,067.10 as and by way of reimbursement of costs, charges and
 

 expenses, as alleged in paragraph 85 of the Statement of Claim? 16. Whether the Claimant is entitled to permanent
 injunction as alleged in paragraph 86 of the statement of claim? 17. Whether the Respondent is entitled to recover from the
 Claimant damages: 18. Whether either party is entitled to interest on the
 monetary if so, at what rate, on what amount and for what
 period? 19. Whether the Claimant is entitled to specific performance

 of the Contract dated 04.10.2000? 20. Whether the Claimant was and is ready and wiling to
 perform his obligation under the Contract dated 04.10.2000? 21. If so, whether the Claimant is entitled to specific
 performance of the Contract? 22. What order as to costs?" ppn 38 arbp-361.11 wt 695.11.doc

 However, after the arguments were closed and when the award

 
 was declared, the award contained the following issues :- 37. According to Mr. Chinoy, 22 issues were superfluous and
 

 four issues which were framed were the only issues that arose and,
 therefore the Arbitrators rightly narrowed them down the four issues. He submitted that the arbitral tribunal is not a civil Court and no error
 can be found with this approach. Mr. Dada submitted that the parties
 advanced their arguments and led their evidence according to the 22
 issues. However, since only four issues were framed, focus was lost

 and it resulted in the award with several flaws. 38. Had this been a stand alone argument of Mr. Dada, I may
 not have accepted it. However, if it is to be considered along with the
 other flaws narrated above, there does seem to be the merit in the ::: Downloaded on - 25/07/2014 23:50:01 ::: ppn 39 arbp-361.11 wt 695.11.doc

 grievance made by Mr. Dada. When the Arbitrators framed the issues, it

 
 was for the parties to focus their attention on the real dispute and they
 were also to serve as a guidance for the Arbitrators to proceed. The issue

 
 as to whether it was the responsibility of Mahgenco to construct Dense
 Phase Conveying System, was one of the core issues that had to be
 decided. Once the issues were deleted, the enquiry proceeded rudderless,

 
 without any focus, and drifted in a wrong direction. 39. Mr. Dada submitted that a meeting took place on 11 April
 2005 and minutes of meeting constituted an admission of an existing
 
 liability by Mahgenco. According to him, in the minutes, it was admitted
 that Mahgenco would construct the Dense Phase Conveying System and
 
 inspite of agreeing to the same, they breached this agreement. According
 to him the minutes only clarified the contract. He submitted that while
 dealing with this issue, the arbitrator rendered a finding which is
 

 perverse. 40. A meeting took place on 11 April 2005 in the office of

 Mahgenco. The Chairman, Technical Director and Chief Engineer of
 MSEB were present. The Chairman and Directors of Dirk India were
 also present in the meeting. Since the minutes of meeting are of
 importance, they are reproduced as under :- Most of the dispute centered around this question. Both the parties led

 
 evidence and witnesses were cross-examined on this issue. It was the
 specific contention of Dirk India that the minutes of meeting dated 11
 April 2005 did not totally modify the agreement but only reiterated

 
 the obligation of Mahgenco that it would install PFA supply system. 43. The Arbitrators concluded that even according to Dirk India,
 the responsibility of transportation of PFA was with Dirk India. They
 
 based this conclusion on the pleadings of Dirk India regarding the
 meeting dated 10 April 2005 that the contract was amended on 11
 
 April 2005. According to the Arbitrators, since Dirk India itself stated
 that by meeting of 11 April 2005, the contract was amended and the
 responsibility was shifted to Mahgenco, it was clear that before this
 

 amendment, admittedly the responsibility of transportation of PFA was
 

 with Dirk India, and further enquiry was necessray. If the Arbitrators
 were to shut out any further enquiry on the ground that Dirk India

 itself had admitted the liability by pleading theory of amendment, the
 Arbitrators should have examined whether such pleadings existed. Dirk
 India specifically pleaded that there was no amendment as such to the
 contract in the meeting of 11 April 2005, but minutes were only

 clarificatory in nature and the responsibility was always on the
 Mahgenco. The Arbitrators then went on to observe that the theory of
 amendment of contract cannot be accepted as it could be only done by
 notice under Clause 11.2 of the contract. In fact Mahgenco had stated
 that the minutes had no force and could be taken into account. Thus, ::: Downloaded on - 25/07/2014 23:50:01 ::: ppn 43 arbp-361.11 wt 695.11.doc

 the Arbitrators placed reliance on an non-existent admission of Dirk

 
 India to reach at an important conclusion, without further enquiry. Thus
 this dispute was never decided. According to the Arbitrators it was not

 
 necessary as the admission of Dirk India was clear. If the foundation to
 fix the responsibility on Dirk India was their own pleadings and if such
 pleadings never existed, then the finding would be rendered perverse on

 
 the face of it. 44. As regards the submission of Mr. Dada that the award is
 without reasons, Mr. Chinoy submitted that it is not necessary to give a
 
 detailed award and no elaborate reasoning in support thereof need to be
 given. He submitted that obligation under the contract was admittedly
 
 not performed by Dirk India and, therefore no detailed award was
 necessary. It is true that an arbitral award need not be very detailed,
 but at the same time, unless the parties agree, reasons have to be given
 

 in the award. If the parties go to the Arbitrators with specific issues to
 

 be decided, not only they must be decided, but the parties must be
 informed why the dispute was decided in a particular manner. 45. It is true that an elaborate award like a judgment of a court
 need not be given by the Arbitrators, but there is one aspect that needs
 to be kept in mind. It is open to the parties to choose their arbitrator. The parties may choose an arbitrator with a technical background to
 decide the technical issues. They may choose an arbitrator with a judicial
 background if judicial expertise is what they want. Their choice reflects
 how they want the arbitration to be conducted. Once the parties choose
 an arbitrator with a judicial background, they expect that the arbitrator ::: Downloaded on - 25/07/2014 23:50:01 ::: ppn 44 arbp-361.11 wt 695.11.doc

 would apply judicial and legal expertise and resolve the dispute

 
 evaluating the veracity of assertions of both the sides. Parties expect the
 judicial mind will understand and appreciate the real dispute between the

 
 parties better and bring it into focus and give a just and reasoned
 decision. When the parties choose an arbitrator with a technical
 background they rely more on the technical approach rather than a

 
 judicial approach, and may not expect a detailed reasoning. The parties
 may decide that no reasons be given in the arbitration award. The

 
 parties may choose an arbitrator from similar background as themselves.
 They may choose an arbitrator with an expertise in the subject or they
 
 may choose an arbitrator with a judicial background. The expectations of
 the parties as regards the form and content of the award in all these
 
 contingencies differ. Their expectation as to how the award should be
 delivered also differs. The depth and quality of reasoning will differ and
 cannot be placed on the same pedestal. This is not to lay down any
 

 absolute proposition of law but a factor to be kept in mind when a party
 

 makes a grievance about an unreasoned award. 46. Mr. Dada also made another grievance that the arguments
 were concluded on 12 December 2009 and the award was rendered on
 31 March 2011 and there was a gross delay. Again had this been a lone
 argument, it may or may not result in setting aside the award. But when

 the outcome of the proceedings was as narrated above, one wonders
 whether it was the result of time gap between the closure of argument
 and pronouncement of the award. 47. Mr. Dada has also touched upon various other findings of ::: Downloaded on - 25/07/2014 23:50:01 ::: ppn 45 arbp-361.11 wt 695.11.doc

 the award. But to go further into the details of the controversy will not

 
 be permissible as it would amount to exercising an appellate power
 over the Arbitrators findings. Even with the restricted jurisdiction

 
 available under Section 34 , it can be seen that the award is fundamentally
 flawed. According to Mr. Chinoy, none of the above grounds constitute
 any ground for interference under Section 34 of the Act. According to

 
 him, there was nothing complicated in the dispute. It was the
 responsibility of Dirk India to collect the specified quantity of PFA

 
 which they admittedly failed to do and, therefore the contract was rightly
 terminated and which action has been correctly upheld by the Arbitrators. I am afraid the controversy was not as simple as that. Mr. Dada is
 successful in demonstrating that there is a complete omission to decide
 
 the core issues and the issues decided are irrelevant. He also
 demonstrated that the dispute which never arose was decided. He has also
 been successful to demonstrate that this flaw is of such a fundamental
 

 nature that the award is rendered perverse. If the Arbitrators did not
 

 decide the dispute and decided a dispute which never arose, the entire
 purpose of arbitration is lost, rendering it a completely futile exercise. 48. Dirk India alone is not dissatisfied with the award.
 Mahgenco has also filed its petition being Arbitration Petition No.695 of
 2011 challenging the dismissal of its counter claim. Mahgenco had

 sought damages from Dirk India on various counts. Mahgenco sought
 damages of Rs.18671.58 lakhs with interest @ 18% p.a. The damages
 were sought on the ground that Mahgenco had entered into the contract
 with Dirk India for removing the PFA to avoid environmental pollution
 and Dirk India not only failed to lift the agreed quantity, but caused
 damage. According to Mahgenco, the machinery inside ESP hoppers ::: Downloaded on - 25/07/2014 23:50:01 ::: ppn 46 arbp-361.11 wt 695.11.doc

 and fabric expansion joint was damaged. The acid cleaning of condensor

 
 tubes has been undertaken, for which Mahgenco incurred heavy
 expenses. Damages were also sought for cleaning cable trays; cleaning

 
 of suspension tubes and rods; replacement of rectifier transformer;
 cleaning of isolator; emitting electrodes; shaft insulator; various heaters
 etc. Mahgenco contended that slurry pumps had to be maintained. And

 
 PFA had to be dumped in the lagoon. Various pumps is required to run 24
 hours, causing heavy electrical consumption. Various machines and

 
 supervisory staff had to be maintained because the PFA was not lifted by
 Dirk India. Various problems arose such as reduction in vaccum, poor
 
 performance of cooling towers, machinery was chocked up and
 additional supervisory staff had to be engaged. Sums under various heads
 
 were specified. Correspondence was placed on record and Mr. Morale
 deposed to that effect. 49. The Arbitrators dismissed the claim of Mahgenco in totality. The Arbitrators held that the documents which were sought to be
 proved by the witness of Mahgenco were not proved. The Arbitrators

 held that even if they were accepted in evidence, the exact loss is not
 discernable and Mahgenco did not prove that it had spent so much
 amount for preventing environmental pollution. The Arbitrators also
 held that Mahgenco did not challenge various orders passed by the High

 Court from time to time and Dirk India alone was not responsible for
 the losses caused by Dirk India by implementation of the orders of the
 High Court. 50. Mr. D.D. Madon, learned Senior Advocate for Mahgenco ::: Downloaded on - 25/07/2014 23:50:01 ::: ppn 47 arbp-361.11 wt 695.11.doc

 contended that the approach of the Arbitrators in dismissing the entire

 
 claim of Mahgenco is perverse. He submitted that the orders passed by
 the High Court were without prejudice to the rights and contentions of

 
 the parties and merely because Mahgenco did not challenge the orders of
 the High Court, and Mahgenco, a statutory body, decided to comply
 with the orders, it cannot be deprived of claiming damages which it had

 
 suffered. He also submitted that evidence produced on record was
 official correspondence, about which there could not have been any

 
 dispute. In the petition filed by Mahgenco challenge this part of the
 award is on the ground of breach of principles of natural justice and
 
 that the finding that Mahgenco is precluded from seeking damages by not
 challenging the orders of the High Court, is perverse. 51. I am in agreement with the submissions of Mr. Madon.
 Because the orders passed under Section 9 of the Act, by the High Court,
 

 were not challenged, the entire claim of damages of Mahgenco could not
 

 have been dismissed. Mahgenco, a statutory body, if had suffered
 damages, this aspect should have been looked into by the Arbitrators. The correspondence which was sought to be relied upon by Mahgenco
 was an Official correspondence in the course of official business. The
 Arbitrators have simply rejected the same on the ground that it was not
 legally proved. The entire claim of Mahgenco seeking damages of Rs. 18671.58 lakhs has been dismissed in two paragraphs. The Arbitrators
 have refused to even look at the counter-claim. Mr. Madon is right in
 contending that this approach is perverse. Mr.Dada submitted that though
 it is his contention that Mahgenco is not entitled to any damages, he
 supports the contention of Mr. Madon that the award is perverse. He
 further submitted that since both the parties are terming rejection of ::: Downloaded on - 25/07/2014 23:50:01 ::: ppn 48 arbp-361.11 wt 695.11.doc

 the respective claims as perverse, this is one more ground to set aside

 
 the entire award. 52. Taking an overall view of the matter, I am satisfied that
 the challenge to the award by both the Petitioners needs to be allowed
 by setting aside the award, under Section 34 of the Act. 53. Accordingly, the Arbitration Petition No.361 of 2011 filed

 
 by Dirk India, and the Arbitration Petition No.695 of 2011 filed by
 Maharashtra State Power Generation Company Limited, are allowed. The impugned award of the Arbitral Tribunal dated 31 March 2011 is
 quashed and set aside. N.M. JAMDAR, J.