The above two appeals by the assessee are directed against the separate

orders dated 21.1.2008 and 17.1.2008 of the CIT(A) - Central, VII, Mumbai

relating to assessments years 2001-02 and 2002-03 respectively. For the sake

of convenience both the appeals were heard together and are being disposed of

by this common order. ITA No. 1053/Mum/2008 (AY 2001- 2001-02) 02): 2.1 Facts of the case, in brief, are that the assessee company has stated its

business activities as mainly share and stock broking, investment and trading in 2 Triumph Securities Ltd

shares and securities. The assessee company is a member of BSE. During the

course of assessment proceedings, the Assessing Officer issued notice u/s 142(1)

containing a detailed questionnaire. In the said questionnaire apart from asking

for various details, the AO specifically asked the assessee to explain the details

of transactions of shares in which total loss of 8901 crores has been incurred.

He also asked the assessee to give details of purchase of shares and date of

declaration of dividend, complete details of speculation loss of Rs. 58,11,300/-.

The assessee did not submit the details on the due date. The AO issued another

questionnaire and asked the assessee to furnish complete details with regard to

each and every purchase and sale of shares. He also asked the assessee to

specify whether these transactions are dealt on stock exchange or not?. He also

asked the assessee to submit the details of know your clients (KYC) form in the

case of clients with whom it has entered into these speculative transactions.

Since the assessee did not respond to the questionnaire, the Assessing Officer

again issued show cause notice and asked the assessee to explain why the loss

of Rs. 58,11,382/- incurred on account of share transactions should not be

disallowed in the absence of any evidence to prove the genuineness of the loss.

2.2 It was explained by the assessee that loss has arisen because of loss in

delivery based transactions and in non-delivery based transactions. It was

submitted that the loss is genuine. It was argued that it is a matter of public

record that stock market crashed at the last quarter of the relevant year and the

assessee has incurred heavy losses in the process. Referring to the reports of

SEBI and JPC, it was stated that losses suffered by Ketan Parekh entities were in

the range of ` 3000 to ` 4000 crores. It was also submitted that the business

of similar nature in previous years was accepted and net profit was taxed after 3 Triumph Securities Ltd

taking into the consideration the losses suffered in the speculative and non-

speculative sectors of share trading. Referring to the various confirmation

letters filed from various brokers including supporting documents, it was

submitted that the business activity of the assessee is genuine and such

confirmations were accepted in the past including the block assessment

proceedings. 2.3 However, the AO was not convinced with the explanation given by the

assessee. He noted that the loss is incurred prima facie on account of

speculation loss and non-speculation loss. It is a common knowledge that the

above concern belongs to Ketan Parekh group of entities. The relevant

assessment year falls within the so-called year of the stock market scam and

investigations were undertaken by various investigating and regulatory

authorities to examine the role of the Ketan Parekh group of cases in stock

market scam. 2.4 The AO discussed exhaustively the report of the SEBI and JPC and the

modus-operandi adopted by the group. He noted that during the block

assessment proceedings, in view of failure of assessee to provide confirmation

letters in part of transactions and also in view of various ID mismatches (identity,

volume rate) such transactions both speculative and non-speculative were

treated as assessee's own transactions. Similar treatment was given in earlier

years also. Many of the transactions of the assessee during the year are was also

with such entities. Triumph Securities Ltd

2.5 The AO noted that despite number of opportunities given by him, the

assessee did not furnish full details. According to the Assessing Officer, it is the

responsibility of the assessee to explain the differences, specifically in those

cases where confirmation has not come or where confirmations are not

complete. He noted from the figures disclosed in the P&L account under the head

'profit from operations' that the assessee has adjusted loss arising from non-

delivery based transactions which are admitted to be speculative in nature.

According to the AO, these transactions are neither spot transaction nor are

contracted on the Bolt of the Stock Exchange. In certain transactions, the

nomenclature of transactions appears to be brought forward which are non-

delivery based transactions. Further, the assessee has not even submitted bills

of transactions. On careful examination of the same, the Assessing Officer was

of the opinion that the transactions are shown only in order to generate loss or

generate profit and are not genuine share transactions.

2.6 He referred to the circular no.SMDRP/Policy/CIR-32/99 dated 14.9.1999

issued by SEBI which prohibited negotiated deals and cross deals except in the

circumstances mentioned in the circular. According to the said circular, if

transactions are done outside the floor of the stock exchange, it is mandatory for

the broker to report such transactions. However, in the case of the assessee, no

such report has been done to the Stock Exchange. He noted that the assessee

has not submitted transaction wise statement showing specific date of payment

received with regard to purchase and sale of delivery based transactions. In the

absence of submission DP transaction statement, the verification of movement of

scrips could not be done. It was submitted by the assessee that details of DP

statement have been destroyed by white ants. The Assessing Officer noted that 5 Triumph Securities Ltd

the assessee has not even submitted the DP account number. Rejecting the

various explanations given by the assessee, the Assessing Officer came to the

conclusion that losses in the speculative transactions are non-genuine. He,

accordingly did not allow the same to be set off during the year and further did

not allow the same to be carried forward being non-genuine.

3 Before the CIT(A), it was submitted that relevant bills were produced

before the Assessing Officer . No manipulation was done by the assessee as

alleged by the AO. The loss being genuine ought to have been allowed. It was

further submitted that the actual loss figure amounted to Rs. 58,11,372/- and not

Rs. 60,04,791/- as held by the Assessing Officer. Moreover, there is double

addition in as much as the Assessing Officer added the same amount twice in

the computation of income, since the Assessing Officer had added the amount of

Rs. 58,11,372/- in the computation of income in order to arrive at the business

income and thereafter, again made the addition of Rs. 60,04,791/- on the ground

that the loss was not genuine. 3.1 However, the CIT(A) was not satisfied with the explanation given by the

assessee. He noted that the assessee is a part of Ketan Parekh group of share

brokers and traders which was found to be involved in security scam. The

transactions made with most of the parties are part of the scam. The JPC report

which has been exhaustively discussed by the AO had clearly brought out the

nefarious activities of the entire group as a whole. The manipulated operation

was carried through multi layered transactions, so that it was not possible to

link the source of funds to the actual users. The buying and selling pattern of 6 Triumph Securities Ltd

Ketan Parikh group created artificial trading volumes and facilitated price

manipulation and such manipulations were carried on through the various sister

concerns which led to the crash of stock market. The transaction, both

speculative and non speculative carried on by the assessee fall in the same

period. Therefore, the findings of the JPC report are clearly applicable to the

facts of the case. He noted that the assessee failed to rebut the findings of the

Assessing Officer that the transactions carried out by the assessee were

manipulative and fraudulent in nature with an intention of distorting the market

equilibrium for making personal gains. Further, the assessee has failed to

produce any evidence to show that the transactions carried on by it were not off

market transactions and were reported to the Stock Exchange. The assessee has

also failed to controvert the findings of the Assessing Officer that the

transactions were not off market cross deals banned by SEBI after 14.9.1999. He

noted that various queries raised by the Assessing Officer remain unanswered

and the adverse findings of the Special Auditors and the findings of the JPC have

remained non-rebutted by the assessee before the Assessing Officer. Some of

the pertinent points noted by the CIT(A) at para 5.5 of his order are as under: Triumph Securities Ltd f) The transactions made were off floor or cross deals which were not
 backed by payment position within a reasonable time."

3.2 The CIT(A) further noted that under identical facts his predecessor in the

case of Sai Mangal Investrade Ltd has disallowed similar claim by holding that

the assessee failed to prove the genuineness of the transactions. Similar

conclusion has also been drawn by the CIT(A) in the cases of other group

companies while deciding their respective appeals. Relying on a couple of

decisions, the CIT(A) upheld the action of the AO holding that the so called loss

shown by the assessee was not genuine one. 4 Aggrieved with such order of the CIT(A), the assessee is in appeal here

before us. 5 The ld counsel for the assessee while challenging the orders of the CIT(A)

and Assessing Officer submitted that all transactions were through terminal of

the Stock Exchange and the transactions are appearing in the DP account.

Therefore, the very basis of the Assessing Officer treating the transactions as

non-genuine is erroneous and faulty. Referring to page 1 of the paper book, he

submitted that loss from shares and securities was disclosed at ` 58,11,372/-

whereas the Assessing Officer has wrongly taken the figure at ` 60,04,791/-.

Referring to page 39 of the paper book, he submitted that the assessee vide

letter dated 4.2.2004 has given the scrip wise details of speculation loss of

` 58,11,300/-as per Annexure 1. Referring to the said annexure, he drew the

attention of the Bench to the item wise opening stock of quantity rate and value, 8 Triumph Securities Ltd

purchase of quaintly, rate and value, sale/purchase during the year containing

the details of quaintly, rate and value and the closing stock of quantity, rate and

value. Referring to the said annexure, he submitted that contract note bill and

De-mat account were also furnished before the Assessing Officer. He submitted

that scrip wise details of profit and loss with supporting details were furnished.

Therefore, transaction simply cannot be treated as non-genuine. He submitted

that the observations of the Assessing Officer that assessee has submitted that

details of DP account have been destroyed by white ant are wrong and

erroneous and due to non application of mind. He submitted that the assessee

never stated before the Assessing Officer that the DP statements have been

destroyed by white ant. The Assessing Officer has merely copied the

observations of another Assessing Officer in the case of a sister concern.

Referring to the order of the Tribunal vide ITA No.4229/Mum/2007 order dated

27.4.2009 for the Assessment Year 2001-02 in the case if Sai Mangal Investrade

Ltd, he submitted that the Tribunal under identical facts and circumstances has

allowed the loss claimed by the assessee company since the CIT(A) while

deciding the case against the assessee has followed his order in the case of Sai

Mangal Investrade Ltd (supra) and since the Tribunal has set aside the order of

the CIT(A) and allowed the claim of the assessee; therefore, the order of the

CIT(A) should be set aside and the loss claimed by the assessee should be

allowed. 5.1 Referring to the order of the Tribunal in the case of Jayant N Parekh vs

DCIT vide ITA No.3129/Mum/2007 order dated 6.8.2010 for the AY 2001-02, he

submitted that under identical facts and circumstances the Tribunal has allowed 9 Triumph Securities Ltd

the claim of loss of `.1.45 crores disallowed by the Assessing Officer and

upheld by the CIT(A) on the ground that transactions are not genuine in

nature. He, accordingly, submitted that loss claimed by the assessee

being genuine in nature and since full details were before the Assessing

Officer, the order of the CIT(A) should be set aside and the claim should

be allowed. 5.2 The ld Special counsel who appeared on behalf of the revenue, on

the other hand, while supporting the orders of the authorities below

submitted that the assessee belongs to Ketan Parekh group of companies

and this is the scam year. Referring to page 402 of the paper book, he submitted

that the assessee has raised bill to head office control account; therefore, the bill

issued by the assessee to self amounts to a self serving document. He submitted

that the assessee has never produced fund flow details. Referring to the

observations given by the Assessing Officer on the basis of enquiry conducted,

he submitted that the assessee wants to create loss to be set off against its

huge other income like interest and miscellaneous income. He submitted that

the CIT(A) has given clear cut findings for not allowing the loss claimed by the

assessee. He, accordingly submitted that the order of the CIT(A) should be

upheld. 5.3 The ld counsel for the assessee in his rejoinder submitted that the

assessee is a member of BSE and trading is being done through its own terminal

and the assessee cannot trade through the terminal of other members of the 10 Triumph Securities Ltd

Stock Exchange since there is prohibition. He submitted that the assessee has

application account with the Stock Exchange and the entire transactions are to

be routed through the Exchange and the entire money has come out from the

same account. He submitted that the assessee paid stamp duty on the contract.

Referring to the order of the SEBI as relied on by the Assessing Officer/CIT(A), he

submitted that there is no mention that scrips of those companies appears in

the case of the assessee. H submitted that the scrips discussed by SEBI are

different from those scrips traded by the assessee. He accordingly submitted

that the order of the CIT(A) should be set aside and the loss claimed by the

assessee be allowed. 6. We have considered the rival submissions made by both the parties,

perused the orders of the authorities below and the paper book filed on behalf of

the assessee. From the copy of the assessment order, we find the Assessing

Officer made an addition of ` 58,11,372/- under the head 'speculation loss' and

another addition of ` 60,04,791/- on account of share trading loss.

6.1 So far as the addition of `. 58,11,372/- on account of speculation loss is

concerned, we find the Assessing Officer elaborately discussed the reasons for

such disallowance which has already been brought out in the facts of the case.

So far as the share trading loss of ` 60,04,791/ is concerned, we find the

reasons given by the Assessing Officer is that the assessee did not furnish the

movement of funds pertaining to the purchase of the shares. According to the

Assessing Officer from whatever details furnished by the assessee, it appears

that the scrips in which the assessee incurred loss are the same scrips, which 11 Triumph Securities Ltd

the group has manipulated the prices as found out by the JPC and SEBI report. It

is the submission of the ld counsel for the assessee that the shares on which

losses have been incurred are not the same scrips as per the report of the JPC

and SEBI. 6.2 We find before the CIT(A), it was argued that ` 58,11,372/- was added in

the computation of income in order to arrive at th business income and further

addition of ` 60,04,791/- was made on the ground that the loss was not genuine.

Thus, there is double additions {para 4 of the order of the CIT(A)}. We find this

aspect has not been decided by the CIT(A). According to the ld counsel for the

assessee, various observations made by the Assessing Officer and the CIT(A) are

contrary to the facts. We find despite number of opportunities given, the

assessee did not furnish the details on the specified dates. We find the assessee

vide letter dated 4.2.2004 addressed to the Assessing Officer has submitted the

scrip wise details of the details of speculation loss of ` 58,11,300/-. Further vide

letter 15.3.2004 submitted on 24.3.2004 the assessee explained the loss on

trading of shares and securities amounting to ` 58.11 lacs. Although the ld

counsel for the assessee referring to the details of speculation loss of

` 58,11,300/- tried to explain the justification of such loss by explaining the

quantity, rate and value of opening stock, purchase, sales and closing stock and

submitted that contract note, bill and demat account have been furnished

before the Assessing Officer, we find the same were not properly verified by the

Assessing Officer or by the CIT(A). It is also the case of the Assessing Officer that

the assessee has not explained the differences specifically in those cases where

confirmations have not come or where confirmations are incomplete. Under

these circumstances, we are of the considered opinion that the matter requires 12 Triumph Securities Ltd

fresh adjudication at the leval of the Assessing Officer on the basis of the

various documents filed before him which appears to have not been properly

examined by him. We, therefore, set aside the order of the CIT(A) and restore

the matter to the file of the Assessing Officer with the direction to decide the

issue afresh and in accordance with law after giving reasonable opportunity of

being heard to the assessee. We hold and direct accordingly. This ground of the

assessee is accordingly allowed for statistical purpose.

7 In grounds of appeal no.2, the assessee has challenged the order of the

CIT(A) in not allowing depreciation of Rs. 18,28,125/- on membership rights of

the Stock Exchange. 8 At the time of hearing, it was agreed by both the parties that the issue

stands decided against the assessee by the decision of the Hon'ble Bombay High

Court in the case of Techno Shares &Stocks Ltd & others reported in 84 Taxman 103. However, it has come to our notice that the above decision of the Hon'ble

Bombay High Court has since been reversed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court

wherein it has been held that the assessee is entitled to depreciation on stock

exchange membership card. Since this issue was not argued in detail by either

of the sides; therefore, in the interest of justice, we deem it proper to restore this

issue back to the file of the Assessing Officer with a direction to decide the issue

afresh in the light of the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court (supra) and in

accordance with law. This ground of the assessee is accordingly allowed for

statistical purpose. Triumph Securities Ltd

9 In grounds of appeal no.3 , the assessee has challenged the order of the

CIT(A) in not adjudicating the ground relating to disallowance of depreciation of

` 4,64,727/- on computer systems, furniture and office equipments.

10 Both the parties agreed that before the CIT(A) a specific ground, as per

3(b) in Form no.35 was taken challenging the order of the Assessing Officer in

disallowing without assigning any reason a sum of ` 4,64,727/- being

depreciation on computer systems, furniture and office equipments. However,

the CIT(A) has not adjudicated this ground and therefore, the same should be

restored back to his file for adjudication. Since admittedly, the CIT(A) has not

adjudicated the ground of appeal 3(b) before him; therefore, we restore this

ground to his file for adjudication. Needless to say, he has to give due

opportunity of being heard to the assessee and decide the issue in accordance

with law. We hold and direct accordingly. This ground by the assessee is

accordingly allowed for statistical purpose. 11 In grounds of appeal no.4, the assessee has challenged the order of the

CIT(A) in upholding the action of the Assessing Officer in disallowing a sum of

` 1,49,62,136/- on account of bad debts. 11.1 Facts of the case, in brief, are that the assessee has claimed an amount of

` 2,30,92,877/- as bad debts in the P&L account. The Assessing Officer asked

the assessee to prove the allowability of the deduction. The assessee explained 14 Triumph Securities Ltd

that an amount of ` 21,56,580/- and ` 59,74,161/- are written off on account of

bad debts from the franchises of the company at Indore and Valsad. Since the

assessee could not prove to his satisfaction the fulfilment of the provisions of

sec. 36(2), the Assessing Officer disallowed an amount of ` 149,62,136/-.

11.2 Before the CIT(A) it was submitted that the Assessing Officer never asked

for any such details. The assessee furnished copies of the ledger account of

the respective parties along with the bills of transactions undertaken on behalf of

the parties in stock exchange. It was requested to consider such details and

evidences as additional evidence/supporting documents, which could not be filed

due to lack of sufficient opportunity allowed by the Assessing Officer. However,

the CIT(A) noted that the Assessing Officer had called for relevant details

pertaining to bad debts as per detailed questionnaire dated 9.12.2003 by

seeking details of bad debt written off and basis for claiming the deduction. The

assessment order was passed on 30.3.2004. Therefore, it is not correct on the

part of the assessee to state that the Assessing Officer did not ask for necessary

details or did not accord sufficient opportunity. Since the assessee failed to give

justifiable reason for entertaining additional evidences before him as required

under Rule 46A, the CIT(A) rejected the additional evidences and upheld the

action of the Assessing Officer in making the disallowance. The CIT(A) further

observed that even primary details were not furnished before the Assessing

Officer and the onus is on the assessee to discharge the burden cast on it.

Aggrieved with such order of the CIT(A), the assessee is in appeal here before us. 15 Triumph Securities Ltd

12 The ld counsel for the assessee referring to the evidences filed before the

CIT(A) as additional evidence submitted that the same should have been

admitted by him. He, accordingly, prayed that in the interest of justice the

matter should be sent back to the file of the Assessing Officer for fresh

adjudication. 12.1 The ld DR on the other hand while supporting the order of the CIT(A)

submitted that he has no objection if the matter is restored to the file of the

Assessing Officer. 13 After hearing both the parties, we find admittedly, the assessee had not

furnished the full details before the Assessing Officer for allowing the claim of

bad debts. We find the CIT(A) did not entertain the additional evidences filed

before him on the ground that the assessee could not specifically explain the

reasons for entertaining the additional evidences under Rule 46A of the I T Act.

Considering the totality of the facts and circumstances of the case and in the

interest of justice, we are of the considered opinion that the assessee should be

given one more opportunity to substantiate its claim of bad debts. We,

therefore, set aside the order of the CIT(A) and direct the Assessing Officer to

give one more opportunity to explain the allowability of bad debts of `

1,49,62,136/-. The Assessing Officer shall decide the issue afresh and in

accordance with law after giving due opportunity of being heard to the assessee.

We hold and direct accordingly. The ground taken by the assessee is accordingly

allowed for statistical purpose. Triumph Securities Ltd ITA No. 2111/Mum/2008 (AY 2002- 2002-03)

14 Before deciding other grounds, the grounds of appeal no.4 (a), in our

opinion, has to be decided at the beginning. The assessee, in this ground has

challenged the order of the CIT(A) in making enhancement of income by

withdrawing deduction of expenses allowed under the head 'business income'

and also not allowing carry forward of business loss on the ground that no

business activity has been carried out during the year.

14.1 Facts of the case, in brief, are that the assessee has filed its return of

income on 31.10.2002 declaring the loss of `. 7,27,08,940/-. The Assessing

Officer while passing the order u/s 143(3) made various additions/disallowance

and determined the total loss at ` 70,493,585/-. The assessee challenged the

order of the Assessing Officer before the CIT(A). During the appellate

proceedings the CIT(A) noted that the Assessing Officer had determined the

business loss at ` 7.04 crores and allowed the same to be carried forward;

although no specific mention of such fact has been made in the order. He noted

that the assessee is debarred from carrying on share trading activity by SEBI as

it along with other group concerns led by Shri Ketan Parekh was involved in

Securities Scam which was unearthed in the year 2000. From April 2001, the

whole group including the assessee could not carry out such trading. He noted

that as per the past records, this was the only business activity of the assessee.

However, the assessee was also earning certain residual income in the form of

interest on FDR etc. He noted from the P&L account that major part of the 17 Triumph Securities Ltd

income of the assessee was derived from other income amounting to ` 94.40

lakhs which included interest, dividend and miscellaneous income. Rest of other

income comprised of brokerage and income from shares and securities etc.,

amounting to ` 2.45 lakhs and `. 2.07 lakhs respectively. The total receipts

amounted to ` 98.93 lakhs only. Since the assessee has not furnished any

details giving the exact nature of miscellaneous income, he assumed that such

an income is residual income other than business income and is also liable to be

taxed as other sources. However, the assessee has claimed deduction amounting

to ` 8.10 crores as expenses, which included the bad debt and penalty, which

cannot be attributed to earning the miscellaneous income as well as negligible

income from shares and brokerage etc. Since no business as such was being

carried out by the assessee, the CIT(A) noted that there is no question of

allowing any deduction of the expenses. 14.2 Rejecting the explanations given by the assessee and relying on a

couple of decisions, he noted that there was hardly any business activity during

the year and the Assessing Officer had erroneously allowed the business loss to

be carried forward. He, accordingly, issued notice of enhancement proposing to

disallow the expenses claimed under the head 'business income' and

withdrawing the carried forward loss. In absence of any response from the

assessee till the date of passing the order, the CIT(A) held that the assessee is

not entitled to claim any business loss and not entitled to carry forward the same

for setting off in the subsequent assessment year. Accordingly, he directed the

Assessing Officer to withdraw the entire deduction allowed under the head

'income from business' or 'profession' and also the amount of business loss 18 Triumph Securities Ltd

carried forward to subsequent assessment years. Since the business loss would

be ignored, he directed the Assessing Officer to tax the miscellaneous income

comprising of interest etc, under the head 'income from other sources".

Accordingly, there was an enhancement of income to the extent of business

loss amounting to ` 7.04 crores, which has been wrongly allowed to be carried

forward. Miscellaneous income aggregating to ` 94.40 lakhs, inclusive of

interest income of ` 39.98 lakhs, was directed to be taxed, as income from other

sources. 15 Aggrieved with such order of the CIT(A), the assessee is in appeal here

before us. 16 The ld counsel for the assessee submitted that the assessee company

is a Member of BSE and was debarred from undertaking any fresh business as a

stock broker or merchant banker till further orders by SEBI vide its order dated

4.4.2001. He submitted that SEBI vide order dated 21.6.2001 passed another

order holding that on receipt of the enquiry officer's recommendations, further

decision as to whether prohibition to carry out fresh broking activity on the

entities should be continued for a further period or it should be withdrawn, will

be taken. He submitted that SEBI passed an order dated 8.3.2004 cancelling the

certificate of registration granted to the company. The company then preferred

an appeal to the Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT) in April, 2004 against the

order dated 8.3.2004 passed by SEBI and the appeal of the assessee was

dismissed vide order dated 11.5.2007. He submitted that the company has not 19 Triumph Securities Ltd

been delisted as member of the Stock Exchange. He submitted that the company

has not discontinued its business operations but has been forced not to

undertake any business activity by virtue of the aforesaid order of the SEBI,

which was confirmed by the SAT. According to the ld AR though there is

suspension of broking activity by virtue of the order of the SEBI, the company

cannot be said to be not carrying on business during the period up to May,

2007or at least till 8.3.2004 being the date of cancellation of certificate of

registration by the SEBI. Relying on a couple of decisions and more particularly

the order of the Tribunal in the case of KNP Securities P Ltd vide ITA Nos. 5008

& 5009/Mum/2007, he submitted that under identical facts and circumstances,

the Tribunal after considering a number of decisions has held that various

expenses incurred by the assessee are allowable as deduction. He accordingly

submitted that this, being a covered matter, the assessee is entitled to the

business loss incurred by it and also for carry forward of the same.

16.1 The ld DR, on the other hand, supported the order of the CIT(A).

17 After hearing both the parties, we find identical issue had come up

before the Tribunal in the case of KNP Securities P Ltd (supra) wherein the

Assessing Officer had disallowed various expenses claimed by the assessee in its

P&L Account on the ground that the assessee has not carried out any business

activity since SEBI made restriction vide order dated 11.4.2001. In appeal, the

CIT(A) upheld the action of the Assessing Officer and on further appeal, the

Tribunal vide order dated 29.5.2009 allowed the various expenses claimed by

the assessee. The relevant portion of the order of the Tribunal reads as under: 20 therefore, it cannot be said that the assessee has
closed/discontinued its business activity its own. The
establishments of the assessee were intact and they were to 21 Triumph Securities Ltd

be maintained. Staff members were kept and salaries were
paid to them. Loans taken from various banks and others for
the purpose of business activity in past were outstanding
during the year under consideration; therefore, any interest
accrued was to be paid during the year under consideration
or was payable. The assessee is having valid BSE card
which could not be used for the reason that SEBI has
passed an order barring the assessee not to do any
business activity. Therefore, it also cannot be said that the
assessee could not use the BSE card its own which was
ready to use. In these circumstances, we are of the
considered view that the assessee's business does not come
to an end or discontinued. 5.2 The meaning of discontinuation is explained in the
Law Lexicon where "it implies a voluntary act and
abandonment of possession followed by the actual
possession of another, it implies that the person
discontinuing has given up the lend and left it to the
possessed by anyone choosing to come in as held in the
case of Qadir Bux vs Ramchand 1917 AIR 289 at page 295. It is further explained at the same page at 563 of the law
Lexicon that "discontinue; to cause to cease or to put a stop.
5.3 In the present case neither the business is
discontinued on account of voluntary act of the assessee nor
the same has put to stop its own. The business could not be
done for the reason that SEBI has barred the assessee not
to do any business activity till further orders. The assessee
was barred till further orders clearly mean that the assessee
was not barred permanently. The permanent order issued in
the year 2007 and from the year of 2007, the assessee
cannot do any business activity; therefore, at the most it can
be said that no expenses can be allowed from that year. However, for the earlier year, in our considered view, the
expenses incurred by the assessee for the purpose of its
business activity are allowable as the establishment was
not scraped and the assessee was still hopeful to start its
business activity. 6 In the case of CIT vs Vellore Electric Corporation Ltd reported in 243 ITR 529, the Hon'ble Madras High Court has
held that: 7.1 The ratio of the decision of the Apex Court also goes in
favour of the assessee as the litigation expenses incurred in
respect to its business were held as business expenditure.

7.2 In the present case also all the expenses incurred are
connected with the business of the assessee only; therefore,
the expenses claimed by the assessee are allowable. 8 In the case of M/s Marine Labour Supplying Co,
decided in ITA No.6048 & 6049/Mum/07 vide order dated
2.12.2008, the Tribunal by following the decision in the case
of Ruia Shelters Ltd in 10 SOT 157 (Mum) and in the case of
Chunilal &Co in 4 SOT 309(Mum(TM) held that if for the
reason due to lullness of business no business can be done
for AYs 2002-03 to 2005-06, the assessee is entitled to
deduction in respect of administrative and other expenses
which are required to be incurred for keeping the business
alive. 9 We have also taken into consideration various case
laws on which reliance has been placed by the ld DR and
found that they are distinguishable on facts. 10 In the case of Chinai and Co P Ltd in 206 ITR 616, the
Hon'ble Bombay High Court has held that the assessee
company could not be entitled for any deduction of expenses 25 Triumph Securities Ltd

claimed by it as business expenditure u/s 37 as the
assessee company has stopped carrying on its business at
the end of December, 1969. The mere fact that it continued
to hold its investments would not be sufficient for the
purpose of establishing that it continued to carry on
business. 10.1 In the present case, the assessee has not stopped the
business activity its own but it was forced by SEBI not to do
any business activity. Therefore, the ratio of this decision of
the Hon'ble Bombay High Court is not applicable on the facts
of the present case. 11 Similarly, the decision of the Hon'ble Gujarat High
Court in the case of Nathalal Asharam in 194 ITR 110 is
also not applicable on the facts of the present case as the
company paid compensation to its employees under the
provisions of sec. 25 FFF of Industrial Disputes Act 1947 on
account of retrenchment which were held as not related to
the business carried on by the assessee. 11.1 We have also taken into consideration various other
case laws relied upon by the ld DR and found that they are
distinguishable on facts. 12 In the present case, no such facts are involved as all
the expenses incurred were in connection with the business
activity only and for keeping the business alive, to maintain
its business establishment and to meet that the obligation of
interest on loan etc taken for its business activity; therefore,
we hold that various expenses incurred by the assessee are
allowable as deduction. However, admissibility of the
expenditure was not examined by the AO for the reason that
he has disallowed the expenditure on the ground that they
are not allowable as the assessee has not done any
business activity. Therefore, for the purpose of examining
the admissibility/genuineness of these expenses, the mater
is sent to the file of the AO. The assessee has contended
that depreciation and interest have been allowed by the
Tribunal as allowable while passing order for AY 2000-01.
The AO will take into consider the order of the Tribunal and
if it is found that facts are similar then of course, in view of 26 Triumph Securities Ltd

 the decision of the Tribunal, the claim of the assessee on
 account of depreciation and interest has to be allowed."

17.1 Since the facts of the impugned appeal are identical to the facts in

the case of the sister concern of the assessee i.e KNP Securities P Ltd ;

therefore, respectfully following the decision of the Tribunal, we hold that the

assessee is entitled to claim various expenses debited in the P&L account. We

hold and direct accordingly. The ground raised by the assessee is accordingly

allowed. 18 In grounds of appeal no.1, the assessee has challenged the order of

the CIT(A) in upholding the action of the Assessing Officer in disallowing

depreciation of `. 13,71,094/- on membership rights of BSE.

19 After hearing both the sides, we find this ground is identical to grounds

of appeal no.2 in ITA No.1053/Mum/2008. We have restored the issue to the file

of the Assessing Officer for fresh adjudication in the light of the decision of the

Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Techno Shares & Stocks Ltd & others (supra). Following the same ratio, this ground of the assessee is allowed for

statistical purpose. 20 In grounds of appeal no.2, the assessee has challenged the order of

the CIT(A) in confirming the disallowance of bad debts of ` 8,4,514/- by the

Assessing Officer u/s 36(1)(vii) r.w.s 36(2) of the Act. 27 Triumph Securities Ltd

21 After hearing both the sides, we find the assessee debited an amount

of ` 8,40,514/- as bad debts. The Assessing Officer asked the assessee to

justify the allowability of the same. It was submitted that the assessee

has fulfilled the conditions specified in sec. 36(1)(vii) r.w.s 36(2), However,

the Assessing Officer was not satisfied with the explanation given by the

assessee. According to him, the assessee is a share broker and its credits

only the brokerage income arising from the purchase or sale of shares on

behalf of the clients. The share and stock broker buys and sells on behalf

of clients from the stock exchange for which it earns brokerage income.

The share broker is liable to tax on its brokerage income subject to

allowance of expenses and other items. The value of purchase or sale on

behalf of the clients is not credited or debited to P&L account. According

to the Assessing Officer, part of the debit balance which does not pertain

to brokerage and pertains to value of shares purchased by client is not

covered by section 36(2). Therefore, in case the client does not pay in

future, this debit cannot partake the nature of 'bad debt' allowable u/s

36(1)((vii) as this amount of debt has not been included in the

computation of income as required u/s 36(2). Since the debt not

collectible from the client, does not fall under the ambit of sec. 36(2), it

remains outside the purview of sec. 36(1)(vii). On this basis, the Assessing

Officer disallowed the claim of bad debts made by the assessee. 28 Triumph Securities Ltd

21.1 In appeal, the CIT(A) upheld the action of the Assessing Officer

on the ground that the assessee has not carried out any business activity

during the year. Aggrieved with such order of the CIT(A), the assessee is

in appeal here before us. 22 The ld counsel for the assessee, at the outset, submitted that the

issue of bad debts in the case of share broker is covered by the decision of the

Special Bench in the case of DCIT vs Shri Shreyas S Morakhia reported in (2010)

TIOL 390 (Mum)(SB). 22.1 The ld DR, on the other hand submitted that since the CIT(A) had held

that the assessee has not carried our any business activity during the year, the

same cannot be allowed as allowable deduction from the other income.

23 After hearing both the parties, we find the issue of carrying on of

business has already been decided by us in favour of the assessee in grounds of

appeal no.4(a). We find the Assessing Officer disallowed the bad debt on the

ground that the assessee is a share broker and credits only brokerage income to

its P&L account. Since the assessee has not credited the entire amount

receivable from the clients on account of purchase on his behalf; therefore, such

bad debt not collectible from the clients does not fall under the ambit of sec.

36(2). We find the issue is now decided in favour of the assessee by the decision

of the Special Bench of the Tribunal in the case of Shri Shreyas S Morakhia 29 Triumph Securities Ltd (supra wherein it has been held that a share broker can claim the amount

receivable from its clients as bad debts. 23.1 Respectfully following the decision of the Special Bench of the Tribunal

in the case of Shri Shreyas S Morakhia (supra), we hold that the assessee is

entitled to claim the amount of bad debts . The ground raised by the assessee is

accordingly allowed. 24 In the grounds of appeal no.3, the assessee has challenged the order

of the CIT(A) in confirming the disallowance of ` 3,750/- made by the Assessing

Officer on account of penalty debited to the P&L account on the ground that the

assessee has not carried out any business activity during the year.

24.1 Facts of the case, in brief, are that the assessee has debited an

amount of `. 3,750/- on account of penalty/fine charged by the NSE for violation

of Rules and Regulations viz. Violation of Gross Exposure Limit, Penalty for fund

shortage, delay in reporting etc. The assessee being a member of NSE has paid

this amount for contractual violations. Since the amount was paid under the

head penalty, the Assessing Officer disallowed the same as non-allowable

expenditure. Triumph Securities Ltd

24.2 In appeal, the CIT(A) upheld the action of the Assessing Officer on the

ground that the assessee has not carried out any business activity during the

year. 25 The ld counsel for the assessee, at the outset, submitted that penalty

paid to NSE is an allowable expenditure as has been held by the coordinate

Bench of the Tribunal in the case of ACIT vs Classic Shares & Stock Broking

Services Ltd vide ITA no.4258/Mum/04 order dated 28.7.2006 for Assessment

Year 2000-01. Referring to para 10 of the order of the Tribunal, he submitted

that the Assessing Officer in the said decision disallowed an amount of `

4,75,335/- on account of penalty paid by the assessee for violation of the

provisions of NSE and in appeal, the CIT(A), deleted the addition. On further

appeal by the revenue, the Tribunal in the said decision upheld the action of the

CIT(A) and dismissed the ground raised by the revenue.

25.1 Referring to the order of the Tribunal in the case of KNP Securities P

Ltd vide ITA Nos. 5008 & 5009/Mum/2007 order dated 29.5.2009 for AYs 20-34

and 2004-05, he submitted that the Tribunal under identical facts and

circumstances has held that the assessee is carrying out business activity. In

view of the above two decisions, he submitted that the issue stands covered in

favour of the assessee. 25.2 The ld DR, on the other hand supported the order of the CIT(A). 31 Triumph Securities Ltd

26 After hearing both the sides, we find the Assessing Officer disallowed

the amount of `3,750/- paid to BSE for violation of its Rules and Regulations on

the ground that the same is in the nature of penalty and is not an allowable

deduction. In appeal, the CIT(A) upheld the action of the Assessing Officer on the

ground that the assessee is not conducting any business activity during the year.

27 The issue of carrying on the business has already been decided by us

in favour of the assessee in grounds of appal 4(a). As regards to allowability of

expenditure, the issue has been decided by the coordinate Bench of the Tribunal

in the case of the sister concern i.e. Classic Shares & Stock Broking Services Ltd. (supra). Respectfully following the decision of the coordinate Bench of the

Tribunal in the case of another sister concern of the assessee and in absence of

any contrary material brought to our notice by the DR, we hold that the assessee

is entitled to deduction of claim of ` 3,750/- being penalty paid to Stock

Exchange for violation of its Rules and Regulations. The ground raised by the

assessee is accordingly allowed. 28 In the grounds of appeal no.4(b), the assessee has challenged the order of

the CIT(A) upholding the action of the Assessing Officer in holding that

miscellaneous income comprising of interest etc., would also be liable to be

taxed under the head income from other sources. 29 After hearing both the parties, we find the assessee has treated the

miscellaneous income of ` 94,40,620/- as business income. From the details 32 Triumph Securities Ltd

furnished by the assessee, we find the amount of ` 94,40,620 comprises as

under: The Assessing Officer treated the entire income as 'business income' as claimed

by the assessee. However, in appeal, the CIT(A) held that the same has to be

treated as income from other sources. 29.1 From the various details furnished by the assessee we are of the opinion

that only sundry balance written back on account of provisions u/s 41(1) can be

treated as 'business income' and the rest of the items like interest, dividend,,

miscellaneous income, turnover charges collected, commission income, bank

charges and de-mat charges etc. has to be treated as 'income from other

sources'. We hold and direct accordingly. This ground of the assessee is

accordingly allowed partly. Triumph Securities Ltd

30 In the result, ITA No.1053/Mum/2008 for Assessment Year 2001-02 is

partly allowed for statistical purpose and ITA No.2111/Mum/08 is partly allowed.

Order pronounced on the 31st, day of Dec 2010.