1. This petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India has been
 filed seeking the following reliefs :- 2. At the outset, Shri Sankalp Kochar who is appearing in
 W.P.No.26479/2022 and M.Cr.C.No. 2597/2023, submitted that he is
 appearing for the accused persons. The bail which was granted to the
 accused persons was subsequently cancelled by the High Court. The 3 Police after completing the investigation has filed the charge sheet and
 trial is going on. 3. However, by relying upon the judgment passed by the Supreme Court
 in the case of Subrata Chattoraj vs. Union of India and others ,
 decided on 9.5.2014 passed in W.P.(Civil) No.401 of 2013, it is
 submitted by counsel for the petitioner that where investigation
 agency is not investigating the matter properly and where crores of
 rupees are involved and the offence is committed in multiple States,
 then the matter should have been transferred to CBI. 4. Heard learned counsel for the parties. 5. It is not out of place to mention here that the petitioner is not
 complainant and he claims himself to be a public spirited person. 6. Be that whatever it may be. 7. Investigation is already complete and charge sheet has already been
 filed. The Supreme Court in the case of Subrata Chattoraj (supra)
 has held as under : - Each one of the aspects set out above in our view calls
for investigation by an independent agency like the
Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). That is
because apart from the sensitivity of the issues
involved especially inter-state ramifications of the 5 scam under investigation, transfer of cases from the
 State police have been ordered by this Court also with
 a view to ensure credibility of such investigation in
 the public perception. Transfers have been ordered by
 this Court even in cases where the family members of
 victim killed in a firing incident had expressed
 apprehensions about the fairness of the investigation
 and prayed for entrusting the matter to a credible and
 effective agency like the CBI. Investigation by the
 State Police in a scam that involves thousands of
 crores collected from the public allegedly because of
 the patronage of people occupying high positions in
 the system will hardly carry conviction especially
 when even the regulators who were expected to
 prevent or check such a scam appear to have turned a
 blind eye to what was going on. The State Police
 Agency has done well in making seizures, in
 registering cases, in completing investigation in most
 of the cases and filing charge-sheets and bringing
 those who are responsible to book. The question,
 however, is not whether the State police has faltered.
 The question is whether what is done by the State
 police is sufficient to inspire confidence of those who
 are aggrieved. While we do not consider it necessary
 to go into the question whether the State police have
 done all that it ought to have done, we need to point
 out that money trail has not yet been traced. The
 collections made from the public far exceed the
 visible investment that the investigating agencies have
 till now identified. So also the larger conspiracy angle
 in the States of Assam, Odisha and West Bengal
 although under investigation has not made much
 headway partly because of the inter- state
 ramifications, which the Investigating Agencies need
 to examine but are handicapped in examining." 8. Accordingly, counsel for the petitioner was directed to argue as to
 whether the police had failed to investigate the matter properly and 6 what is the basis for making such an allegation. Except by saying that
 number of persons were cheated even after getting the bail, counsel
 for the petitioner could not point out any reasons to transfer the case to
 CBI. 9. It is well established principle of law that even after charge sheet is
 filed the matter can be transferred to CBI but the same has to be done
 in exceptional cases. 10. The Supreme Court in the case of State of Punjab v. CBI and
 others , reported in (2011) 9 SCC 182 has held as under :- The courts subordinate to the High Court even
do not have any inherent power under Section
482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure or 8 otherwise. The precognizance jurisdiction to
remand vested in the subordinate courts,
therefore, must be exercised within the four
corners of the Code." 24. It is clear from the aforesaid observations
of this Court that the investigating agency or
the court subordinate to the High Court
exercising powers under CrPC have to
exercise the powers within the four corners of CrPC and this would mean that the
investigating agency may undertake further
investigation and the subordinate court may
direct further investigation into the case where
charge-sheet has been filed under sub-section
(2) of Section 173 CrPC and such further
investigation will not mean fresh investigation
or reinvestigation. But these limitations in
sub-section (8) of Section 173 CrPC in a case
where charge-sheet has been filed will not
apply to the exercise of inherent powers of the
High Court under Section 482 CrPC for
securing the ends of justice. 25. This position of law will also be clear
from the decision of this Court in Nirmal
Singh Kahlon v. State of Punjab [(2009) 1
SCC 441 : (2009) 1 SCC (Cri) 523] cited by
Mr Raval. The facts of that case are that the
State Police had investigated into the
allegations of irregularities in the selection of
a large number of candidates for the post of
Panchayat Secretaries and had filed a charge-
sheet against Nirmal Singh Kahlon. Yet the
High Court in a PIL under Article 226 of the
Constitution passed orders on 7-5-2003
directing investigation by CBI into the case as
it thought that such investigation by CBI was
"not only just and proper but a necessity". Nirmal Singh Kahlon challenged the decision
of the High Court before this Court
contending inter alia that sub-section (8) of Section 173 CrPC did not envisage an
investigation by CBI after the filing of a
charge-sheet and the Court of Magistrate
alone has the jurisdiction to issue any further
direction for investigation before this Court. 26. Amongst the authorities cited on behalf of
Nirmal Singh Kahlon was the decision of this
Court in Vineet Narain case [(1998) 1 SCC
226 : 1998 SCC (Cri) 307] that once the
investigation is over and charge-sheet is filed
the task of the monitoring court comes to an
end. Yet this Court sustained the order of the
High Court with inter alia the following
reasons: ( Nirmal Singh Kahlon case [(2009) 1
SCC 441 : (2009) 1 SCC (Cri) 523] , SCC pp.
465-66, para 63)

"63. The High Court in this case was not
monitoring any investigation. It only desired
that the investigation should be carried out by
an independent agency. Its anxiety, as is
evident from the order dated 3-4-2002, was to
see that the officers of the State do not get
away. If that be so, the submission of Mr Rao
that the monitoring of an investigation comes
to an end after the charge-sheet is filed, as has
been held by this Court in Vineet Narain
[(1998) 1 SCC 226 : 1998 SCC (Cri) 307] and
M.C. Mehta (Taj Corridor Scam) v. Union of
India [(2007) 1 SCC 110 : (2007) 1 SCC (Cri)
264] , loses all significance." 27. Though the decision of this Court in Nirmal Singh Kahlon v. State of Punjab [(2009) 1 SCC 441 : (2009) 1 SCC (Cri) 523] 10 is in the context of the power of the High
 Court under Article 226 of the Constitution,
 the above observations will equally apply to a
 case where the power of the High Court under Section 482 CrPC is exercised to direct
 investigation of a case by an independent
 agency to secure the ends of justice." 11. The Supreme Court in the case of Dharam Pal v. State of Haryana
 and others , reported in (2016) 4 SCC 160 has held as under :- 12. The Supreme Court in the case of Bharati Tamang v. Union of
 India , reported in (2013) 15 SCC 578 has held as under :- 13. The Supreme Court in the case of Babubhai v. State of Gujarat and
 others , reported in (2010) 12 SCC 254 has held as under :- 14. The Supreme Court in the case of Himanshu Kumar and others v.
 State of Chhattisgarh and others, reported in 2022 SCC Online SC
 884 has held as under :- (emphasis supplied) 45. In the above decision , it was also pointed
out that the same court in Secretary, Minor 17 Irrigation & Rural Engineering Services, U.P.
v. Sahngoo Ram Arya , (2002) 5 SCC 521, had
said that an order directing an enquiry by the
CBI should be passed only when the High
Court, after considering the material on
record, comes to the conclusion that such
material does disclose a prima facie case
calling for an investigation by the CBI or any
other similar agency. 46. In an appropriate case when the Court
feels that the investigation by the police
authorities is not in a proper direction, and in
order to do complete justice in the case and if
high police officials are involved in the
alleged crime, the Court may be justified in
such circumstances to handover the
investigation to an independent agency like
the CBI. By now it is well-settled that even
after the filing of the charge sheet the court is
empowered in an appropriate case to handover
the investigation to an independent agency
like the CBI. 47. The extraordinary power of the
Constitutional Courts under Articles 32 and 226 respectively of the Constitution of India
qua the issuance of directions to the CBI to
conduct investigation must be exercised with
great caution as underlined by this Court in
the case of Committee for Protection of
Democratic Rights, West Bengal (supra) as
adverted to herein above, observing that
although no inflexible guidelines can be laid
down in this regard, yet it was highlighted that
such an order cannot be passed as a matter of
routine or merely because the parties have
levelled some allegations against the local
police and can be invoked in exceptional 18 situations where it becomes necessary to
provide credibility and instill confidence in
the investigation or where the incident may
have national or international ramifications or
where such an order may be necessary for
doing complete justice and for enforcing the
fundamental rights. We are conscious of the
fact that though a satisfaction of want of
proper, fair, impartial and effective
investigation eroding its credence and
reliability is the precondition for a direction
for further investigation or re-investigation,
submission of the charge sheet ipso facto or
the pendency of the trial can, by no means, be
a prohibitive impediment. The contextual facts
and the attendant circumstances have to be
singularly evaluated and analyzed to decide
the needfulness of further investigation or re-
investigation to unravel the truth and mete out
justice to the parties. The prime concern and
the endeavour of the court of law should be to
secure justice on the basis of true facts which
ought to be unearthed through a committed,
resolved and a competent investigating
agency. 48. The above principle has been reiterated in K.V. Rajendran v. Superintendent of Police,
CBCID South Zone, Chennai , (2013) 12 SCC 480. Dr. B.S. Chauhan, J. speaking for a three-
Judge Bench of this Court held: 49. Elaborating on this principle, this Court
further observed: 50. The Court reiterated that an investigation
may be transferred to the CBI only in "rare
and exceptional cases". One factor that courts
may consider is that such transfer is
"imperative" to retain "public confidence in
the impartial working of the State agencies."
This observation must be read with the
observations made by the Constitution Bench
in the case of Committee for Protection of
Democratic Rights, West Bengal (supra), that
mere allegations against the police do not 20 constitute a sufficient basis to transfer the
investigation. 51. In Romila Thapar v. Union of India ,
(2018) 10 SCC 753, one of us, A.M.
Khanwilkar, J., speaking for a three-Judge
Bench of this Court (Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud, J.
dissenting) noted the dictum in a line of
precedents laying down the principle that the
accused "does not have a say in the matter of
appointment of investigating agency". In
reiterating this principle, this Court relied
upon its earlier decisions in Narmada Bai v.
State of Gujarat , ( 2011) 5 SCC 79, Sanjiv
Rajendra Bhatt v. Union of India , ( 2016) 1
SCC 1, E. Sivakumar v. Union of India ,
( 2018) 7 SCC 365, and Divine Retreat Centre
v. State of Kerala , (2008) 3 SCC 542. This
Court observed: 52. It has been held by this Court in CBI v.
Rajesh Gandhi , 1997 Cri LJ 63, that no one
can insist that an offence be investigated by a
particular agency. We fully agree with the
view in the aforesaid decision. An aggrieved
person can only claim that the offence he
alleges be investigated properly, but he has no
right to claim that it be investigated by any
particular agency of his choice. 53. The principle of law that emerges from the
precedents of this Court is that the power to
transfer an investigation must be used 21 "sparingly" and only "in exceptional
 circumstances". In assessing the plea urged by
 the petitioner that the investigation must be
 transferred to the CBI, we are guided by the
 parameters laid down by this Court for the
 exercise of that extraordinary power." 15. The Supreme Court in the case of K.V. Rajendran v. Superintendent
 of Police, CBCID South Zone, Chennai and others , reported in
 (2013) 12 SCC 480 has held as under :- Davinder Pal Singh Bhullar [(2011) 14 SCC
770 : (2012) 4 SCC (Civ) 1034 : AIR 2012 SC
364] .) 14. In Rubabbuddin Sheikh v. State of Gujarat [(2010) 2 SCC 200 : (2010) 2 SCC (Cri)
1006] this Court dealt with a case where the
accusation had been against high officials of
the Police Department of the State of Gujarat
in respect of killing of persons in a fake
encounter and Gujarat Police after the
conclusion of the investigation, submitted a
charge-sheet before the competent criminal
court. The Court came to the conclusion that
as the allegations of committing murder under
the garb of an encounter are not against any
third party but against the top police personnel
of the State of Gujarat, the investigation
concluded by the State investigating agency
may not be satisfactorily held. Thus, in order
to do justice and instil confidence in the minds
of the victims as well of the public, the State
police authority could not be allowed to
continue with the investigation when 23 allegations and offences were mostly against
top officials. Thus, the Court held that even if
a charge-sheet has been filed by the State
investigating agency there is no prohibition
for transferring the investigation to any other
independent investigating agency. 15. In State of W.B. v. Committee for
Protection of Democratic Rights [(2010) 3
SCC 571 : (2010) 2 SCC (Cri) 401] a
Constitution Bench of this Court has clarified
that extraordinary power to transfer the
investigation from State investigating agency
to any other investigating agency must be
exercised sparingly, cautiously and in
exceptional situations where it becomes
necessary to provide credibility and instil
confidence in investigation or where the
incident may have national and international
ramifications or where such an order may be
necessary for doing complete justice and
enforcing the fundamental rights. (See also Ashok Kumar Todi v. Kishwar Jahan [(2011)
3 SCC 758 : (2011) 2 SCC (Cri) 75 : AIR
2011 SC 1254] .) 16. This Court in Sakiri Vasu v. State of U.P. [(2008) 2 SCC 409 : (2008) 1 SCC (Cri) 440]
held : (SCC p. 416, para 31)

"31. ... this Court or the High Court has
power under Article 136 or Article 226 to
order investigation by CBI. That, however,
should be done only in some rare and
exceptional case, otherwise, CBI would be
flooded with a large number of cases and
would find it impossible to properly
investigate all of them." (emphasis supplied) 17. In view of the above, the law can be
 summarised to the effect that the Court could
 exercise its constitutional powers for
 transferring an investigation from the State
 investigating agency to any other independent
 investigating agency like CBI only in rare and
 exceptional cases. Such as where high
 officials of State authorities are involved, or
 the accusation itself is against the top officials
 of the investigating agency thereby allowing
 them to influence the investigation, and
 further that it is so necessary to do justice and
 to instill confidence in the investigation or
 where the investigation is prima facie found to
 be tainted/biased." 16. The Supreme Court in the case of Vishal Tiwari vs. UOI and others reported in AIR 2024 SC 414 has held as under :- "17. ... the Court could exercise its
 constitutional powers for transferring an
 investigation from the State investigating
 agency to any other independent investigating
 agency like CBI only in rare and exceptional
 cases. Such as where high officials of State
 authorities are involved, or the accusation itself
 is against the top officials of the investigating
 agency thereby allowing them to influence the
 investigation, and further that it is so necessary
 to do justice and to instil confidence in the
 investigation or where the investigation is prima
 facie found to be tainted/biased." 50. The Court reiterated that an
 investigation may be transferred to the CBI
 only in "rare and exceptional cases". One factor 26 that courts may consider is that such transfer is
 "imperative" to retain "public confidence in the
 impartial working of the State agencies." This
 observation must be read with the observations
 made by the Constitution Bench in the case of
 Committee for Protection of Democratic Rights,
 West Bengal (supra), that mere allegations
 against the police do not constitute a sufficient
 basis to transfer the investigation. ... 52. It has been held by this Court in CBI
 v. Rajesh Gandhi , 1997 Cri LJ 63, that no one
 can insist that an offence be investigated by a
 particular agency. We fully agree with the view
 in the aforesaid decision. An aggrieved person
 can only claim that the offence he alleges be
 investigated properly, but he has no right to
 claim that it be investigated by any particular
 agency of his choice. 53. The principle of law that emerges
 from the precedents of this Court is that the
 power to transfer an investigation must be used
 "sparingly" and only "in exceptional
 circumstances". In assessing the plea urged by
 the petitioner that the investigation must be
 transferred to the CBI, we are guided by the
 parameters laid down by this Court for the
 exercise of that extraordinary power." (emphasis supplied) 17. The Supreme Court in the case of Royden Harold Buthello and
 another vs. State of Chhattisgarh and others reported in AIR 2023
 SC 1231 has held as under :- Also Mithilesh Kumar Singh v. State of
Rajasthan, (2015) 9 SCC 795 wherein it is
held hereunder:-- 14. Reference may also be made to the
decision of this Court in State of
Punjab v. CBI wherein this Court upheld the
order transferring investigation from the State
Police to CBI in connection with a sex scandal
even when the High Court had commended
the investigation conducted by the DIG and
his team of officers. In Subrata
Chattoraj v. Union of India , this Court
directed transfer of the Chit Fund Scam in the
States of West Bengal and Orissa from the
State Police to CBI keeping in view the
involvement of several influential persons
holding high positions of power and influence
or political clout. 15. Suffice it to say that transfers have
been ordered in varied situations but while
doing so the test applied by the Court has
always been whether a direction for transfer,
was keeping in view the nature of allegations,
necessary with a view to making the process
of discovery of truth credible. What is
important is that this Court has rarely, if ever,
viewed at the threshold the prayer for transfer
of investigation to CBI with suspicion. There
is no reluctance on the part of the Court to
grant relief to the victims or their families in
cases, where intervention is called for, nor is it
necessary for the petitioner seeking a transfer
to make out a cast-iron case of abuse or
neglect on the part of the State Police, before
ordering a transfer. Transfer can be ordered
once the Court is satisfied on the available
material that such a course will promote the
cause of justice, in a given case." and "in exceptional circumstances" comports
 with the idea that routine transfers would belie
 not just public confidence in the normal
 course of law but also render meaningless the
 extraordinary situations that warrant the
 exercise of the power to transfer the
 investigation. Having balanced and considered
 the material on record as well as the
 averments of and submissions urged by the
 petitioner, we find that no case of the nature
 which falls within the ambit of the tests
 enunciated in the precedents of this Court has
 been established for the transfer of the
 investigation." 18. The Supreme Court in the case of Anant Thanur Karmuse v. State of
 Maharashtra and others , reported in (2023) 5 SCC 802 has held as
 under :- Services v. Sahngoo Ram Arya , (2002) 5 SCC
521 : 2002 SCC (L&S) 775] , had said that an
order directing an enquiry by CBI should be
passed only when the High Court, after
considering the material on record, comes to
the conclusion that such material does disclose
a prima facie case calling for an investigation
by CBI or any other similar agency. 47. In an appropriate case when the Court
feels that the investigation by the police
authorities is not in ... a proper direction, and
in order to do complete justice in the case and
if high police officials are involved in the
alleged crime, the Court may be justified in
such circumstances to hand over the
investigation to an independent agency like
CBI. By now it is well settled that even after
the filing of the charge-sheet the Court is
empowered in an appropriate case to hand
over the investigation to an independent
agency like CBI. 48. The extraordinary power of the
constitutional courts under Articles 32 and 226 respectively of the Constitution of India
qua the issuance of directions to CBI to
conduct investigation must be exercised with
great caution as underlined by this Court
in Committee for Protection of Democratic
Rights [State of W.B. v. Committee for
Protection of Democratic Rights, (2010) 3
SCC 571 : (2010) 2 SCC (Cri) 401] as
adverted to hereinabove, observing that
although no inflexible guidelines can be laid
down in this regard, yet it was highlighted that
such an order cannot be passed as a matter of
routine or merely because the parties have
levelled some allegations against the local
police and can be invoked in exceptional
situations where it becomes necessary to
provide credibility and instil confidence in the
investigation or where the incident may have
national or international ramifications or
where such an order may be necessary for
doing complete justice and for enforcing the
fundamental rights. 49. We are conscious of the fact that though a
satisfaction of want of proper, fair, impartial
and effective investigation eroding its
credence and reliability is the precondition for
a direction for further investigation or
reinvestigation, submission of the charge-
sheet ipso facto or the pendency of the trial
can, by no means, be a prohibitive
impediment. The contextual facts and the
attendant circumstances have to be singularly
evaluated and analysed to decide the
needfulness of further investigation or
reinvestigation to unravel the truth and mete
out justice to the parties. The prime concern 36 and the endeavour of the court of law should
be to secure justice on the basis of true facts
which ought to be unearthed through a
committed, resolved and a competent
investigating agency. 50. The above principle has been reiterated
in K.V. Rajendran v. Supt. of Police [K.V.
Rajendran v. Supt. of Police, (2013) 12 SCC
480 : (2014) 4 SCC (Cri) 578] . Dr B.S.
Chauhan, J. speaking for a three-Judge Bench
of this Court held : (SCC p. 485, para 13)
'13. ... This Court has time and again dealt
with the issue under what circumstances the
investigation can be transferred from the State
investigating agency to any other independent
investigating agency like CBI. It has been held
that the power of transferring such
investigation must be in rare and exceptional
cases where the court finds it necessary in
order to do justice between the parties and to
instil confidence in the public mind, or where
investigation by the State Police lacks
credibility and it is necessary for having "a
fair, honest and complete investigation", and
particularly, when it is imperative to retain
public confidence in the impartial working of
the State agencies." 51. Elaborating on this principle, this Court
further observed : ( K.V. Rajendran case [K.V.
Rajendran v. Supt. of Police, (2013) 12 SCC
480 : (2014) 4 SCC (Cri) 578] , SCC p. 487,
para 17)
'17. ... the Court could exercise its
constitutional powers for transferring an
investigation from the State investigating
agency to any other independent investigating
agency like CBI only in rare and exceptional
cases. Such as where high officials of State 37 authorities are involved, or the accusation
itself is against the top officials of the
investigating agency thereby allowing them to
influence the investigation, and further that it
is so necessary to do justice and to instil
confidence in the investigation or where the
investigation is prima facie found to be
tainted/biased.' 52. The Court reiterated that an investigation
may be transferred to CBI only in "rare and
exceptional cases". One factor that courts may
consider is that such transfer is "imperative"
to retain "public confidence in the impartial
working of the State agencies." This
observation must be read with the
observations made by the Constitution Bench
in Committee for Protection of Democratic
Rights [State of W.B. v. Committee for
Protection of Democratic Rights, (2010) 3
SCC 571 : (2010) 2 SCC (Cri) 401] , that
mere allegations against the police do not
constitute a sufficient basis to transfer the
investigation. 53. In Romila Thapar v. Union of
India [Romila Thapar v. Union of India,
(2018) 10 SCC 753 : (2019) 1 SCC (Cri) 638]
, one of us, A.M. Khanwilkar, J., speaking for
a three-Judge Bench of this Court (Dr D.Y.
Chandrachud, J. dissenting) noted the dictum
in a line of precedents laying down the
principle that the accused "does not have a say
in the matter of appointment of investigating
agency". In reiterating this principle, this
Court relied upon its earlier decisions
in Narmada Bai v. State of Gujarat [Narmada
Bai v. State of Gujarat, (2011) 5 SCC 79 : monitored investigation.' 54. It has been held by this Court
in CBI v. Rajesh Gandhi [CBI v. Rajesh
Gandhi, (1996) 11 SCC 253 : 1997 SCC (Cri)
88 : 1997 Cri LJ 63] , that no one can insist
that an offence be investigated by a particular
agency. We fully agree with the view in the
aforesaid decision. An aggrieved person can
only claim that the offence he alleges be
investigated properly, but he has no right to
claim that it be investigated by any particular
agency of his choice. 55. The principle of law that emerges from the
precedents of this Court is that the power to
transfer an investigation must be used
"sparingly" and only "in exceptional
circumstances". In assessing the plea urged by
the petitioner that the investigation must be
transferred to CBI, we are guided by the
parameters laid down by this Court for the
exercise of that extraordinary power." 19. Thus, it is clear that investigation should be transferred to CBI only in
 rare of exceptional cases. 20. In the writ petition, the petitioner has raised following grounds :- IX. Because the petitioner along-with the citizens
 of state were shocked to hear that this Hon'ble
 court has granted bail to the main accused in
 the scam. Be that as it may, the very next day
 of granting bail, Rs. 1.35 crores have been
 found by the police authorities which belong
 to the accused and this further shows that no
 proper inquiry have been done in this major
 financial fraud. It is trite to mention that, the 41 people were left in fear that, still no proper
 investigation has been done. X. Because even after filing the RTI, the
 petitioner could not obtain any information
 about the investigation which the authorities
 failed to initiate/conclude. XI. Because the petitioner also preferred
 representation dated 03.06.2022 to the Hon'ble
 President of India whereby the Cabinet
 secretariate took cognizance into the matter
 and directed investigation vide letter dated
 08.07.2022 into the matter to Upper Secretary
 Finance Department, the said letter was also
 forwarded to the Government of M.P. but no
 action has been taken by the respondent
 authorities." 21. From plain reading of these grounds, it is clear that no allegations
 have been made against investigating agency warranting transfer of
 investigation from local police to CBI. Even otherwise, counsel for the
 petitioner has not pointed out any lapses either in the investigation or
 in the charge sheet warranting further investigation by the CBI. 22. Under these circumstances, this Court is of the considered opinion that
 no case is made out warranting interference. Petition fails and is
 hereby dismissed. (G.S. AHLUWALIA)
 JUDGE 42 JITENDRA KUMAR Digitally signed by JITENDRA KUMAR PAROUHA DN: c=IN, o=HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH, ou=PRINCIPAL BENCH INDORE, 2.5.4.20=a650f9cd964b96221568096ac01ab1bf019e0b76f6fc652f8

PAROUHA
 93c6324a2f64a5a, postalCode=482001, st=Madhya Pradesh,
 serialNumber=627378D3EE51220F5E81130EECF5ABBEC55EBB6B78
 033E5FF10402B19143AD99, cn=JITENDRA KUMAR PAROUHA
 Date: 2024.05.02 22:28:04 -07'00'

 JP