% 18.03.2025

 CRL.M.(BAIL) 464/2025 (for interim bail for a period of 60 days) 1. Through this application, the Applicant seeks interim bail for a period
 of 60 days in FIR No. 214/2023 under Sections 419 and 420 of the Indian
 Penal Code, 1860, registered at P.S. Special Cell, on the ground that he
 needs to attend to his father, a heart patient who needs to undergo a
 procedure for replacement of pacemaker. 2. The medical record of the Applicant's father, as annexed with the
 present application, has been verified by the State. However, Mr. Amit
 Ahlawat, APP for the State, submits that there are other family members
 who can attend to the Applicant's father and thus, the release of the
 Applicant is not necessary. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 18/03/2025 at 22:58:00 3. In response, Ms. Dolly Sharma, counsel for the Applicant states that
 currently, the Applicant's wife is living separately from the family, whereas
 the Applicant's mother is also an aged person. Therefore, she urges that the
 Applicant's presence would be necessary to fulfil hospital formalities,
 making financial arrangements for the procedure and to take care of his
 father after the procedure. 4. The Court has considered the submissions of the parties. Considering
 the fact that the medical documents of the Applicant's father have been
 verified by the State and are found to be genuine as well as considering the
 urgent medical need of the Applicant's father, the instant request for interim
 bail is accepted. 5. Accordingly, the Applicant is directed to be released on interim bail
 for a period of two weeks, on furnishing a bail bond for a sum of INR
 50,000/- with two sureties of the like amount, subject to the satisfaction of
 the concerned Jail Superintendent/Trial Court/ Duty Metropolitan Magistrate
 on the following conditions: This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 18/03/2025 at 22:58:00 (e) The Applicant shall, upon his release, give his mobile number to the
 concerned IO/SHO and shall keep his mobile phone switched on at all times; (f) The Applicant shall not indulge in any criminal activity and shall not
 directly or indirectly make any inducement, threat or promise to any person
 acquainted with the facts of the case, or tamper with the evidence of the
 case, in any manner whatsoever. 6. In the event of there being any FIR/DD entry/complaint lodged
 against the Applicant, it would be open to the State to seek redressal by
 filing an application seeking cancellation of bail. 7. With the above directions, the present application is disposed of. 8. Considering that the instant case pertains to an alleged fraud relating
 to Bitcoins, Mr. Amit Ahlawat, APP for the State, submits that the
 Complainant would also like to make submissions. For this purpose, the
 Complainant shall appear before the Court on the next date of hearing. 9. List on 29th April, 2025. SANJEEV NARULA, J
 MARCH 18, 2025
 nk BAIL APPLN. 268/2025 Page 3 of 3 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 18/03/2025 at 22:58:00