2025:HHC:7279

 IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH, SHIMLA

 Cr. MP(M) No. 433 of 2025
 Reserved on: 18.03.2025
 Date of Decision: 22.03.2025. Hon'ble Mr Justice Rakesh Kainthla, Judge.
 Whether approved for reporting?1 No.

 For the Petitioner : Mr. Ajay Kumar Dhiman, Advocate.
 For the Respondent : Mr. Prashant Sen, Deputy Advocate
 General. Rakesh Kainthla, Judge

 The petitioner has filed the present petition for

 seeking regular bail. It has been asserted that the petitioner was

 arrested vide FIR No. 210 of 2023, dated 1.8.2023, registered at

 Police Station Haroli, District Una, H.P. for the commission of

 offences punishable under Sections 15 , 25 and 29 of the Narcotic

 Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (ND& PS Act ) and Sections 181 , 192 and 196 of the Motor Vehicles Act, The

 petitioner is innocent, and he was falsely implicated. A charge 1 Whether reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the judgment? Yes. 2025:HHC:7279

sheet has been filed before the Court, and no fruitful purpose

would be served by detaining the petitioner in custody. The

petitioner would abide by the terms and conditions, which the

Court may impose. Hence the petition. 2. The petition is opposed by filing a status report

asserting that the police were checking the vehicles at Bathu on

1.8.2023 at 12.30 AM. They stopped a truck bearing registration

No. HP-11-5239 for checking. The driver could not produce any

documents. The police enquired the driver about the articles

kept in the truck, and he got frightened. The police searched the

truck in the presence of two independent witnesses and found 10

bags containing 129.600 kg of Poppy straw. The police seized the

bags and arrested the driver and the petitioner. The Poppy straw

was sent to SFSL, Junga, and as per the result, it was confirmed

to be a sample of Poppy straw. The petitioner is the owner of the

Truck. He revealed during interrogation that he had purchased

10/10 bags from an unknown person and loaded them in his two

trucks. One truck was apprehended at Bathu, and another truck

was apprehended at Punjab. The petitioner has two trucks

bearing registration No. HP-11-5239 and PB-10-1129. 129.600

kilograms of poppy husk was recovered from the truck bearing 3 2025:HHC:7279

registration No. HP-11-5239 and a huge quantity were recovered

from a truck bearing PB-10-1129. The petitioner is a dealer in

poppy husk. FIR No. 279 of 2018, dated 16.11.2018 has been

registered against the petitioner in Police Station Nalagarh for

the commission of an offence punishable under Section 15 of the

ND& PS Act . FIR No. 29 of 2023, dated 1.8.2023, has also been

registered against the petitioner for the commission of an

offence punishable under section 15 of the ND& PS Act . The

police filed the charge sheet before the Court. Five witnesses

have been examined out of 25 witnesses cited by the

prosecution. The matter is now listed on 5.4.2025 for recording

the statements of remaining witnesses. Hence, the status report. 3. I have heard Mr. Ajay Kumar Dhiman, learned

counsel for the petitioner and Mr. Prashant Sen, learned Deputy

Advocate General, for the respondent-State. 4. Mr. Ajay Kumar Dhiman, learned counsel for the

petitioner, submitted that the petitioner is innocent and he was

falsely implicated. There is no material to connect the petitioner

with the commission of the crime. The charge sheet has been

filed before the Court. No fruitful purpose would be served by 4 2025:HHC:7279

detaining the petitioner in custody. Therefore, he prayed that

the present petition be allowed and the petitioner be released on

bail. 5. Mr. Prashant Sen, learned Deputy Advocate General

for the respondent-State, submitted that the petitioner is the

owner of two trucks from which a huge quantity of poppy husk

has been recovered. The rigours of Section 37 of the ND& PS Act apply to the present case and the petitioner is unable to satisfy

the twin conditions laid down under Section 37 of the ND& PS

Act . The petitioner would indulge in the commission of a similar

offence in case of his release on bail, hence, he prayed that the

present petition be dismissed. 6. I have given considerable thought to the submissions

made at the bar and have gone through the records carefully. 7. The parameters for granting bail were considered by

the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Ramratan v. State of M.P. , 2024 SCC

OnLine SC 3068, wherein it was observed as follows: - (Emphasis supplied) 8. The present petition has to be decided as per the

parameters laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court. 9. The status report shows that a huge quantity of

poppy straw was recovered from the trucks owned by the

petitioner. This prima facie shows the involvement of the 7 2025:HHC:7279

petitioner. The quantity of poppy husk is commercial in nature

and the rigours of Section 37 of the ND& PS Act apply to the

present case. 10. Section 37 of the ND& PS Act provides that in an

offence involving commercial quantity, the Court should be

satisfied that the accused is not guilty of the commission of an

offence and is not likely to commit any offence while on bail. Section 37 of the NDPS Act reads as follows: 11. This Section was interpreted by the Hon'ble Supreme

Court in Union of India Versus Niyazuddin & Another (2018) 13 SCC

738, and it was held that in the absence of the satisfaction that

the accused is not guilty of an offence and he is not likely to

commit an offence while on bail, he cannot be released on bail. It was observed: 8. The accusation in the present case is with regard to the
 fourth factor, namely, commercial quantity. Be that as it
 may, once the Public Prosecutor opposes the application
 for bail to a person accused of the enumerated offences
 under Section 37 of the NDPS Act, in case the court
 proposes to grant bail to such a person, two conditions
 are to be mandatorily satisfied in addition to the normal
 requirements under the provisions of the Cr.P.C . or any
 other enactment. 2025:HHC:7279

 (2) that person is not likely to commit any offence
 while on bail." 12. This position was reiterated in State of Kerala Versus

Rajesh AIR 2020 SC 721, wherein it was held: economic consequences and health hazards
 which would accompany trafficking illegally
 in dangerous drugs, the court should
 implement the law in the spirit with which
 Parliament, after due deliberation, has
 amended." 20. The scheme of Section 37 reveals that the exercise of
power to grant bail is not only subject to the limitations
contained under Section 439 of the CrPC but is also
subject to the limitation placed by Section 37 , which 11 2025:HHC:7279

 commences with the non-obstante clause. The operative
 part of the said section is in the negative form prescribing
 the enlargement of bail to any person accused of
 commission of an offence under the Act unless twin
 conditions are satisfied. The first condition is that the
 prosecution must be given an opportunity to oppose the
 application, and the second is that the Court must be
 satisfied that there are reasonable grounds for believing
 that he is not guilty of such an offence. If either of these
 two conditions is not satisfied, the ban for granting bail
 operates. 21. The expression "reasonable grounds" means
 something more than prima facie grounds. It
 contemplates substantial probable causes for believing
 that the accused is not guilty of the alleged offence. The
 reasonable belief contemplated in the provision requires
 the existence of such facts and circumstances as are
 sufficient in themselves to justify satisfaction that the
 accused is not guilty of the alleged offence. In the case on
 hand, the High Court seems to have completely
 overlooked the underlying object of Section 37 that in
 addition to the limitations provided under the CrPC , or
 any other law for the time being in force, regulating the
 grant of bail, its liberal approach in the matter of bail
 under the NDPS Act is indeed uncalled for." 13. A similar view was taken in Union of India v. Mohd . Nawaz Khan, (2021) 10 SCC 100: (2021) 3 SCC (Cri) 721: 2021 SCC

OnLine SC 1237 wherein it was observed at page 110: 22. The standard prescribed for the grant of bail is
"reasonable ground to believe" that the person
is not guilty of the offence. Interpreting the standard of
"reasonable grounds to believe", a two-judge Bench of
this Court in Shiv Shanker Kesari [Union of India v. Shiv
Shanker Kesari , (2007) 7 SCC 798: (2007) 3 SCC (Cri) 505],
held that : (SCC pp. 801-02, paras 7-8 & 10-11)
 "7. The expression used in Section 37(1)(b)(ii) is
 "reasonable grounds". The expression means
 something more than prima facie grounds. It connotes
 substantial probable causes for believing that the
 accused is not guilty of the offence charged, and this
 reasonable belief contemplated, in turn, points to the
 existence of such facts and circumstances as are
 sufficient in themselves to justify the recording of
 satisfaction that the accused is not guilty of the offence
 charged. 8. The word "reasonable" has in law the prima facie
 meaning of reasonable in regard to those
 circumstances of which the actor, called on to act
 reasonably, knows or ought to know. It is difficult
 to give an exact definition of the word
 "reasonable". '7. ... Stroud's Judicial Dictionary, 4th Edn., p. 2258
 states that it would be unreasonable to expect an
 exact definition of the word "reasonable". Reason
 varies in its conclusions according to the
 idiosyncrasy of the individual and the times and
 circumstances in which he thinks. The reasoning
 which built up the old scholastic logic sounds now
 like the jingling of a child's toy.'
 [See MCD v. Jagan Nath Ashok Kumar [MCD v. Jagan
 Nath Ashok Kumar, (1987) 4 SCC 497], SCC p. 504, 13 2025:HHC:7279

 para 7 and Gujarat Water Supply & Sewerage
 Board v. Unique Erectors (Gujarat) (P) Ltd. [Gujarat
 Water Supply & Sewerage Board v. Unique Erectors
 (Gujarat) (P) Ltd., (1989) 1 SCC 532] ]
 *** 10. The word "reasonable" signifies "in accordance
 with reason". In the ultimate analysis, it is a
 question of fact, whether a particular act is
 reasonable or not depends on the circumstances in
 a given situation. (See Municipal Corpn. of Greater
 Mumbai v. Kamla Mills Ltd. [Municipal Corpn. of
 Greater Mumbai v. Kamla Mills Ltd. (2003) 6 SCC 315] 11. The court, while considering the application for
 bail with reference to Section 37 of the Act, is not
 called upon to record a finding of not guilty. It is for
 the limited purpose essentially confined to the
 question of releasing the accused on bail that the
 court is called upon to see if there are reasonable
 grounds for believing that the accused is not guilty
 and records its satisfaction about the existence of
 such grounds. But the court has not to consider the
 matter as if it is pronouncing a judgment of
 acquittal and recording a finding of not guilty." (emphasis supplied) 23. Based on the above precedent, the test which the High
 Court and this Court are required to apply while granting
 bail is whether there are reasonable grounds to believe
 that the accused has not committed an offence and
 whether he is likely to commit any offence while on bail.
 Given the seriousness of offences punishable under the NDPS Act and in order to curb the menace of drug
 trafficking in the country, stringent parameters for the
 grant of bail under the NDPS Act have been prescribed." 14. It was held in Union of India v. Ajay Kumar Singh , 2023

SCC OnLine SC 346 that the bail cannot be granted without 14 2025:HHC:7279

complying with the requirement of Section 37 of the NDPS Act. It

was observed: and (ii) the court is satisfied that there are reasonable
 grounds for believing that he is not guilty of such an
 offence and that he is not likely to commit any such
 offence while on bail. 15. For the sake of convenience Section 37(1) is
 reproduced hereinbelow:-- 2025:HHC:7279 16. In view of the above provisions, it is implicit that no
 person accused of an offence involving trade in a
 commercial quantity of narcotics is liable to be released
 on bail unless the court is satisfied that there are
 reasonable grounds for believing that he is not guilty of
 such an offence and that he is not likely to commit any
 offence while on bail. 15. It was held in State of Meghalaya v. Lalrintluanga

Sailo, 2024 SCC OnLine SC 1751 that the grant of bail without

considering Section 37 of the NDPS Act is impermissible. It was

observed: 6. While considering the cases under the NDPS Act , one
 cannot be oblivious of the objects and reasons for
 bringing the said enactment after repealing the then
 existing laws relating to Narcotic drugs. The object and
 reasons given in the acts itself reads thus:-- In the decision in Collector of Customs, New
Delhi v. Ahmadalieva Nodira (2004) 3 SCC 549, the three-
judge bench of this Court considered the provisions under Section 37(1)(b) as also 37(1)(b)(ii) of the NDPS Act , with
regard to the expression "reasonable grounds" used
therein. This Court held that it means something more
than the prima facie grounds and that it contemplates
substantial and probable causes for believing that the
accused is not guilty of the alleged offence. Furthermore,
it was held that the reasonable belief contemplated in the
provision would require the existence of such facts and
circumstances as are sufficient in themselves to justify
satisfaction that the accused is not guilty of the alleged
offence. As relates to the twin conditions under Section 37(1)(b) (ii) of the NDPS Act , viz., that, firstly, there are
reasonable grounds for believing that the accused is not
guilty of such offence and, secondly, he is not likely to
commit any offence while on bail it was held therein that
they are cumulative and not alternative. Satisfaction of
the existence of those twin conditions had to be based on
the 'reasonable grounds', as referred to above . 7. In the decision in State of Kerala v. Rajesh (2020) 12 SCC
122, after reiterating the broad parameters laid down by this Court to be followed while considering an application
for bail moved by an accused involved in offences under
the NDPS Act , in paragraph 18 thereof this Court held that
the scheme of Section 37 of the NDPS Act would reveal
that the exercise of power to grant bail in such cases is
not only subject to the limitations contained under Section 439 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, but also
subject to the limitation placed by Section 37(1)(b) (ii), NDPS Act . Further, it was held that in case one of the
two conditions thereunder is not satisfied, the ban for
granting bail would operate. 2025:HHC:7279 8. Thus, the provisions under Section 37(1)(b)(ii) of
 the NDPS Act and the decisions referred supra reveal the
 consistent view of this Court that while considering the
 application for bail made by an accused involved in an
 offence under NDPS Act a liberal approach ignoring the
 mandate under Section 37 of the NDPS Act is
 impermissible. Recording a finding mandated under Section 37 of the NDPS Act, which is a sine qua non for
 granting bail to an accused under the NDPS Act , cannot be
 avoided while passing orders on such applications." 16. The prosecution has collected sufficient material to

show the involvement of the petitioner in the commission of a

crime. There is nothing on record to show that the petitioner

would not commit a similar offence in case of his release on bail. Therefore, the petitioner has failed to satisfy the twin conditions laid down in Section 37 of the ND& PS Act . 17. It was submitted that the prosecution had failed to

complete the evidence, and the petitioner's right to speedy trial

was being violated. Reliance was placed upon the judgment of

the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Puran Mal Jat Vs. State of Rajasthan

SLP (Crl.) No. 1070 of 2023, decided on 2.11.2023. This judgment

will not help the petitioner because the quantity of poppy husk

recovered in the cited case was 35 kilograms, which is less than

the commercial quantity, whereas the petitioner was found in 18 2025:HHC:7279

possession of a commercial quantity of poppy husk. Hence, the

petitioner cannot derive any advance from the cited judgment. 18. The status report shows that the prosecution has

already examined five witnesses. The matter is listed for

recording the statement of prosecution witnesses. The copies of

the order sheets have not been filed to show that the delay is not

attributable to the petitioner. Thus, the petitioner cannot claim

the bail on the ground of delay. 19. In view of the above, the present petition fails and

the same is dismissed. 20. The observation made herein before shall remain

confined to the disposal of the instant petition and will have no

bearing, whatsoever, on the merits of the case. (Rakesh Kainthla)
 Judge
 22nd March, 2025
 (Chander)