Sixteenth Loksabha 

 

 

 
 

 an> 

 

Title: Discussion on Statutory Resolution regarding Disapproval of Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 2018 (No. 6 of 2018) and Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Second Amendment) Bill, 2018 (Statutory Resolution-Negatived and Government Bill - Passed). HON. DEPUTY SPEAKER: Now, let us take Item Nos.21 and 22 together. Shri N.K. Premachandran. SHRI N.K. PREMACHANDRAN ( KOLLAM ): Sir, I beg to move: बैंक का मुझे डेढ़ महीने पहले लेटर आया कि since 2014, they are defaulter. उसके बाद भी आज तक कोई कार्रवाई नहीं हुई। मैं आपसे यह प्रार्थना करना चाहूंगा कि यह जो टॉप 12 है, जिनमें रिजोल्यूशन हो रहा है, आपने निर्णय लिया, बैंकिंग सेक्रेटरी ने डिक्लेयर किया कि for Rs. 50 crore NPAs, we have asked all banks to take up forensic audit. फारेंसिक ऑडिट का क्या हुआ? जितने इस प्रकार के गफलत ध्यान में आए हैं, उन सबके ऊपर एक्शन लेना चाहिए, मैं यह भी आपसे कहना चाहूंगा। वर्ल्ड बैंक का मेरे पास एक आर्टिकल आया है। According to World Bank statistics, it took an average of 3.4 years to resolve a default account. जो एक्सपर्ट हैं, उन्होंने आगे लिखा है कि इंडिया एक अच्छा प्रयास करने जा रहा है। प्रयास करते समय, जैसे-जैसे लोगों को विश्वास में लेकर जहां-जहां जरूरत होगी, करैक्शन करने पड़ेंगे। मैं कुछ और लोगों के एग्जांपल नहीं देना चाहूंगा। मैं आपको कुछ सजेशंस देना चाहूंगा। एक सजेशन यह है कि होल्डिंग कंपनी एंड सबसिडियरी कंपनी, अगर होल्डिंग कंपनी ने गारंटी दी है, तो उसके खिलाफ कार्रवाई शुरू होती है। मेरे हाथ में एक एग्जांपल है कि एनसीएलटी के विरूद्ध कोई अपील में गया, अपीलिएट ट्रिब्यूनल ने 6 महीने पहले हियरिंग समाप्त कर दी, आर्डर रिजर्व्ड कर दिया, रिजोल्यूशन प्रोसेस अटक गया। ट्रिब्यूनल ने स्टे नहीं दिया है, लेकिन एनसीएलटी फाइनल आर्डर नहीं दे रहा है। हमारा यह अनुभव हर एक रेग्युलेटर में आया है, पॉवर रेग्युलेटर में भी आया है, कैपिटल मार्केट रेग्युलेटर में भी यह अनुभव आया है कि जो ट्रिब्यूनल अनेक महीनों तक हियरिंग समाप्त होने के बाद भी आर्डर रिजर्व्ड रखती है, उस संबंध में आपको पार्लियामेंट की मदद लेनी चाहिए कि इसको किस प्रकार से टाइम बाउंड लिमिट में कर सकें। एक और दूसरा सजेशन आया है कि जो रिजोल्यूशन प्रोफेशनल है, एक कंपनी है, उसमें रिजोल्यूशन प्रोफेशनल की उम्र 80 ईयर्स है। एक बार करो, मैं यह नहीं कहूंगा, लेकिन साथ में यह कहूंगा कि इस संबंध में कोई न कोई, मैंने लास्ट टाइम भी आपसे एक बात कही थी, उस दृष्टि से मिनिस्ट्री का एक नोटिस भी आया है। जो क्रॉस बार्डर इनसॉल्वेंसी है, जैसे एमटेक है या और भी कंपनियां हैं, तो उनको किस प्रकार से हम सार्ट आउट करेंगे, इसके बारे में भी हमें सोचना पड़ेगा। महोदय, मैं दो-चार सजेशंस देकर अपनी बात समाप्त करूंगा। इसमें इंटर रेग्युलेटर कन्फ्यूजन है। आरबीआई हो, सेबी हो, डीलिस्टिंग हो, तो इस संबंध में भी हमें आगे कुछ न कुछ करैक्शन करना पड़ेगा। मुझे विश्वास है कि माननीय प्रधानमंत्री नरेन्द्र मोदी जी के नेतृत्व में हम एक अच्छा प्रयास करने जा रहे हैं, रिजोल्यूशन करने जा रहे हैं। जो दस लाख करोड़ एनपीए है, उसमें more than Rs. 5,00,000 crore are as good as bad debts. ऐसी स्थिति है। उसमें से टॉप 24 में ही आप 2 लाख करोड़ के आसपास का सॉल्यूशन लेकर आगे जा रहे हैं। मुझे विश्वास है कि आपको इसमें सफलता मिलेगी। अंत में, मैं फिर से एक बार वही दोहराता हूं कि“जो शुरुआत से सफर करता है, मंजिल तो पा लेता है”। कुछ तो लोग कहेंगे। आप कुछ भी कहोगे, करोगे। माननीय खड़गे जी, मैं आपका ध्यान चाहता हूं। कुछ तो लोग कहेंगे, लोगों का काम है कहना। कोई जबरदस्ती गले मिलेंगे, तो कोई आंख मारेंगे। हमें तो अपना काम करते रहना है। HON. DEPUTY SPEAKER: Next, Shri M. Veerappa Moily. SHRI MALLIKARJUN KHARGE : Sir, I just want to bring to your kind notice that after the Minister introduces the Bill and speaks, it is the prerogative of the opposition party to initiate the discussion. This is a wrong precedent. It is my request that it should not be clubbed like this. Let him raise the issues and those could be replied at the end. … (Interruptions) DR. KIRIT SOMAIYA : I have not said anything unparliamentary.… (Interruptions) SHRI MALLIKARJUN KHARGE : Sir, it is the right of the main Opposition Party to initiate the discussion.  We are not given that opportunity and Members from other Parties have been allowed to speak in between.  It is not a good thing. THE MINISTER OF STATE IN THE MINISTRY OF PARLIAMENTARY AFFAIRS AND MINISTER OF STATE IN THE MINISTRY OF WATER RESOURCES, RIVER DEVELOPMENT AND GANGA REJUVENATION (SHRI ARJUN RAM MEGHWAL): During the discussion in the BAC यह तय हुआ था कि आइटम नं 21 और 22 का डिस्कशन एक साथ किया जाएगा। जब डिस्कशन एक साथ होता है तो जो जिसके नाम पर रिजोल्यूशन है, वह इनिशिएट भी कर सकता है, इनिशिएटर हो सकता है, यह स्पीकर का डिसीजन था।  …( व्यवधान) HON. DEPUTY SPEAKER: We will discuss it. SHRI K.C. VENUGOPAL ( ALAPPUZHA ): Sir, it is misleading.… (Interruptions)  I also attended the BAC meeting and it was never discussed.… (Interruptions)  The hon. Minister knows that we do not discuss such things in the BAC.… (Interruptions)  BAC only allocates time… (Interruptions) SHRI M. VEERAPPA MOILY ( CHIKKABALLAPUR ): Mr. Deputy Speaker, Sir, the question raised by our Leader, Shri Kharge is about the right of the main Opposition Party to initiate the discussion.  Kindly consider it in future. The hon. Minister, Shri Piyush Goyal gave the contours of not only the amendments sought but also with regard to the entire Code.  In fact, the NCLT is formed under the Companies Act, 2013 .  We brought out the most innovative Companies Law in this country and NCLT is one of those innovative policies which was taken by our Government at that time, apart from the Corporate Social Responsibility Fund.  There are many other things and this is one such thing.  There are now as many as 12 branches spread over the country to handle these things.  We require clearer answers to particularly the turn of the questions which I would like to put across in this debate. Does the highest bidder maximise value?  This is the objective.  It is not the question that you get the maximum money.  What is not intended as the main objective is the recovery.  What is intended is to maximise the value of an entity.  All these things have been driven to the background and we think only in minute monetary terms.  That is not the purpose.  I happened to be the Corporate Affairs Minister when we drafted the Companies Law.  This was the objective.  Otherwise, there are recovery agents or recovery mechanisms.  We tried so many mechanisms and some failed while others partly succeeded.  I think this is the extension of that, extension of the recovery principle.  This is a very laudable objective.  It is done. The second question is, should the resolution process be changed to open bidding.  This is what he has said. Of course, there is already a comment from one of the very important industrialists who just came to start an industry.  In the beginning itself, he said that the Insolvency Law is a frustrate.  This is the observation by one of the persons who recently wanted to come, open an industry and settle in India.  This is the impression which has been created in the market world over. How do you remove this kind of an impression? The idea is to have ease of doing business. This is one of the major ideas. But, is this helping us to facilitate ease of doing business? Rather, this kind of an arrangement is making the business difficult. This is a question on which we require total clarification. Why is the need for secrecy? It should be transparent and open. The country should know about it because it is a question of the trust money of the people of this country. How is the trust money of the people of this country being looted, exploited and mis-utilized? The people of this country would like to know about it. This has to be built into in this Code. That was the idea. Then, should the High Court be excluded from the appeal process? Now, it is excluded. Why should it be excluded? There should be checks and balances at every stage. The idea is not to walk away with whatever you would like to have. If you do not have checks and balances, the people will just loot the money and will go away. You will not be preventing it. But, for such things, there should be checks and balances. Further, should the promoters be allowed to bid for their companies? That is another question. I am not responding to it. I think it is for the hon. Minister to answer this question and clarify. Should home buyers be treated as financial creditors? You have brought the amendment through Ordinance. You have given a partial answer. But, that is not just adequate. There are a number of things which are open for interpretation or defining it and again it will go to the court. When you are bringing a law of this kind, you need to define it properly with absolute clarity. Even though some answer is given to this question, but the answer is partial, confusing and it is with ambiguity. I will come back to you with some more details. Then, are the minority shareholders protected? In the concept of democracy – whether of an entity or of any Republic – the minorities become important. If they are not protected, democracy is negated. The democracy is meant for such people who need protection. Like that, minority shareholders will have to be protected. They are neglected. I do not think that in the scheme of things, this has been addressed. Another question is this. Are operational creditors protected? That is also in doubt. Then what happens to companies with overseas assets? The companies do not confine their operations not only to this country, but they also go abroad. What happens to that? There is no answer for that. Do laws need alignment? It is mandatory for a resolution plan to comply with all provisions of the law. For instance, take the case of approval of shareholders under the Companies Act and SEBI for changes in capital structures under the Resolution Plan. As per the resolution, regulations approval under shareholder agreements and incorporation of accord documents are exempted. The shareholders may block any part of the resolution plan, especially matters such as capital reduction. Similar alignment is required between SEBI regulations regarding requirement. It is not a standalone resolution. It cannot be. The company law is not a standalone law. It has to be aligned with SEBI, RBI and many others. After all, we are not working in a vacuum or in an isolated way or in a vertical way. In view of the fact that it is a company law connected with the financial regulations, it need to be connected and collated with others. The workload has increased in IBC immensely. We also find that banks are increasingly resorting to IBC and NCLT.  They are not taking any efforts on their own for recovery or resolution even though they have 180 days or 260 days time lag.  In the interregnum period, they do not do anything or their creditors do not do anything.  I feel they think that this is a God sent instrument and they resort to it. They cannot afford to do it also because their decision making power itself is questioned by various agencies of this Government.  They have created a fear-psychosis wherein decision-making power or a commercial decision taking power of the banking institutions is threatened.  Their autonomy is threatened.  Earlier, there were Vigilance Commissions and now the CBI.  Even the State Investigating Officers are also investigating.  The Chairman of Maharashtra Bank was arrested by the State Government.  I think tomorrow anybody can go to some court and obtain some warrant and any Chairman arrested or an Executive of a bank.    This kind of uncertainty is there. Then, of course, I will come to the larger question of how the banks are functioning.  A stock answer with you is that the NPAs are all of previous legacy.  But what have you done to correct that legacy except raising your hand?  They are now amounting to Rs.11 lakh crore or Rs.12 lakh crore.  I will come back to that.  It is galloping.  There is geographical progression now and not geometric progression.  This is what is happening today. The NCLT has become an easy instrument now.  They feel that the corporate houses with deep pockets can bid for multiple distressed assets under the insolvency process without getting themselves disqualified under Section 29 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Act.  They are free to do it.  All these monopoly Acts have gone and now they have a free play including a defaulting party. This is a holistic law.  Your oratory power should match with your action.  Of course, you have already faulted.  We need to work on this in a holistic way.   This Code was not referred to none of the Standing Committees.  Of course, you have a readymade Joint Select Committee Chairman from the Rajya Sabha.  You do not have faith in the Lok Sabha.  You do not refer the matter to us.  Bhartruhari Ji, they do not have faith in anyone of us and particularly they do not have faith in the Standing Committee on Finance.  We never used to do that.   We invariably used to refer any financial Bill to this Committee.  This was our legacy.  I do not know whether it is a good or bad legacy.  We used to refer all Bills to the Standing Committee on Finance. I am sorry to repeat that I had to remind this House that when I was the administrative Minister of Corporate Affairs,  I sent the Companies Law to the Standing Committee on Finance which was headed by the hon. Member, Shri Yashwant Sinha who was a former Finance Minister.  We sent it to him and he raised some objections.  Again, I sent it to him and third time also he did the same thing on various aspects.  I again sent it to him.  I had sent back four times that Bill to the Standing Committee on Finance.  This is the real democracy.  I think Bhartruhari Ji will agree because he was there in the earlier Committee and in the present Committee also. We will have to accept it. But I find a sense of intolerance for the views of the Standing Committee for any number of Reports we give; for any number of recommendations we give. Of course, I do not intend to say that you only reject it which you cannot but by and large, 90 per cent of the recommendations are rejected. For any democracy to survive, sustain and to be nurtured we need to have the highest sense of tolerance. But I sent back the Report for review by the Standing Committee on Finance four times when Shri Yashwant Sinha was the Chairman of the Standing Committee on Finance. I said that only after he approved the last sentence in the Company Law, I would adopt that and I did adhere to that statement. SHRI BHARTRUHARI MAHTAB ( CUTTACK ): The Government accepted all the recommendations of the Standing Committee. SHRI M. VEERAPPA MOILY : I accepted all the recommendations of the then Standing Committee on Finance. You have nothing to learn from that. This is the basic tenet of Parliamentary democracy. You may not agree. SHRI BHARTRUHARI MAHTAB : The present Finance Minister in-charge was also a Member of that Standing Committee on Finance. SHRI M. VEERAPPA MOILY : That is correct. So, that was a bad legacy and what you are adopting now is the right legacy. I am just telling you that. Whatever it is, maybe, that is your style of running a democracy and this is our style of running a democracy. We leave it to the people to judge. I would not like to make any other comment except saying this. Sir, here also this Bill after introduction was referred to the Joint Select Committee headed by an hon. Member from Rajya Sabha. The provisions of this Act had to be amended twice. Even today it is not perfect. How many times more would this Act have to be amended? That is why, people say that in the present state, the Insolvency Code is frustrating. It does not help business; it does not help investment. I would like to know if this has helped in a pie of investment in the country after the introduction of the provisions of the Insolvency Code. The answer is `no’. Think in the interest of the country. Please do not think in the interest of our Congress Party simply because we brought this law. Think of investment; think of future. I would like the Government to re-think on these aspects at least today. The Government should be fair enough to refer this Bill to the Standing Committee on Finance. It is not a matter of one or two questions. This cannot be an ad-hoc measure. As has been mentioned by hon. Member Shri Premachandran, the Government got stuck up in NCLT in one case where the threshold limit has to be brought down to help that party. That is the only intention. That means that this Ordinance is tainted. How to remove that taint? It is not going to help you. There is a report and I do not know if you have gone through this Report or not. There is a report of the Insolvency Law Committee of March 2018 which was sponsored by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Government of India. The report runs into 100s of pages. The report has come out with several suggestions. The Government may go through the summary of the recommendations. There are recommendations proposing amendments to the subordinate legislation. You picked up only one suggestion from this. However, increase of the threshold limit was not a suggestion of this Committee. I think, the Government must be having its private Committee from its own sources. I salute the Government. It is an outcome of your independent source and independent report. You produce it before the Committee.  At least let us go through it in the Committee. So, this does not help you at all.  Of course, as far as home buyers are concerned, you have partially taken the suggestion mentioned in para 1.7 of page 17 of this Report.  Home buyers are considered partially and not fully.  There are so many other things here.  My request to this House, through the hon. Deputy-Speaker, is to kindly refer this Bill to the Standing Committee on Finance along with this Report of the officials.  Let it examine it and come out with a holistic Report.  Where is the hurry now? … (Interruptions) Is the time allotted to me over? HON. DEPUTY SPEAKER:  Yes, the time allotted to you is already over.  But try to be brief and conclude your speech. SHRI K.C. VENUGOPAL :  Sir, this is a very important discussion. HON. DEPUTY SPEAKER:  That is all right. Then you cut down the time of other speakers from your Party. SHRI M. VEERAPPA MOILY :    No, I do not want to take away the time of other Members.… (Interruptions) Shri Venugopal, the Government does not want a proper discussion. They want to bulldoze this Bill as they are anxious.  There is greed behind this amendment.  They want to respond to that greed.… (Interruptions) HON. DEPUTY SPEAKER:  Come to the point, Shri Moily. SHRI M. VEERAPPA MOILY : They want to respond to that greed to loot the trusted money of the banks.   What will happen to this Report?  Should I tear it down here?  Is there any value for this Report?  Refer this Report along with this Bill to the Standing Committee on Finance and have a holistic approach. And majority Members are from your Party. All the 61 Reports given by me are unanimous.   Nobody has disagreed with them. That does not mean that your Members are not thinking-people. They are thinking-people.  There are very brilliant Members in that  Committee including Dr. Kirit Somaiya. You know the nature of Dr. Kirit Somaiya.  He is very dynamic and boisterous but when he comes to the Committee meeting, he is highly disciplined. … (Interruptions) That is why, this requires to be referred to the  Standing Committee.   Have faith in democracy and the Committee system.  The Committee system is a well tested system.… (Interruptions) When there is no time, what is the point in continuing?… (Interruptions) HON. DEPUTY SPEAKER:  It is not like that.  You please come to the point.  You have already told about the Committee system. SHRI M. VEERAPPA MOILY :  Then that means that till now I have not come to the point.  If that is the remark of the Deputy-Speaker, then I cannot continue. HON. DEPUTY SPEAKER: Please listen to me. Your Party has been given 16 minutes.  There are many other speakers to speak.  Therefore, I am requesting you to be brief and try to conclude. SHRI M. VEERAPPA MOILY :  I am on the point only.  I am not off the point.  I have come well prepared. SHRI K.C. VENUGOPAL : Sir, he is the Chairman of the Standing Committee on Finance.   He is initiating the discussion also.  How can you hurry up in this type of Bills? HON. DEPUTY SPEAKER:   I have to accommodate other Members also. SHRI M. VEERAPPA MOILY :  This House Is not for accommodation.  This House is for a well-considered deliberation and a good product for future.   The product is a good law and not a bad law and not a half-baked law. HON. DEPUTY SPEAKER:   Do not argue on the same point. You make some other points. SHRI M. VEERAPPA MOILY :  Sir, you tell me what point I should speak on. I will go by your advice. … (Interruptions) The amendments are half-baked.  They are targeted to help only a few people.  I think, some developers wanted some relief and you have come with these amendments but how about the allottees who are suffering?  There is no safeguard at all for them. Is it a secured loan or unsecured loan? Is there any definition for that? There is no definition at all. It will be open to the interpretation of the courts and interpretation of the NCLT. In a way, it is not going to help even the house allottees. What is the point in keeping the threshold at Rs. 1 lakh? In that case, there will be multiple litigations. Make the limit to Rs. 10 crore so that only such cases go to the NCLT. Otherwise, now, you are driving every case to the NCLT. The banks cannot recover even Rs. 1 lakh. You give them the leverage up to Rs. 10 lakhs. That is also the point which will have to be properly considered. It will not help the real estate.… (Interruptions) It will help them because you are reducing 83 per cent haircut and making it to 66 per cent. Do you want the standard haircut of 66 per cent to be given to everybody?  I think that it will help only those people. But, you are not protecting. The ultimate goal is to protect the depositors of the banks. You are not injecting any discipline into the system. If you are not introducing any discipline into the system, I think there will be a total anarchy and it is not going to help anybody except the persons whom you think that it can help. That is the intention, no doubt. In fact, you do not look at the economic environment. Of course, to a certain extent because of the world crisis, the growth plunged after 2011. This helped to bring your Government into office. Seven years later, the economy has still not recovered to its pre-2011 position. That means that you have to go. The Modi Government has to give place for a new Government. But they do not address the problem. They do not think that there is a problem within them. They think that everything is all right. Today, the economy of the country is there on the pre-2011 position. You are not redressing it. There is a wilful blindness about the main cause of the bad loans. You shut your eyes; shut your ears about all these things and the bad loans are just raising. The recycling of the funds cannot be done because it is not within the banks. You have taken away that kind of a right from them. There are several challenges in the banking sector- Resolution of the stressed assets. The level of the banks is such that they cannot even lend the retail loans. They have been disabled from February 12, 2018. At that stage, if you want to give haircut to the extent of 60 percent; 50 per cent and even 84 per cent, who is going to save these banks? I think there is a deliberate and conscious effort on the part of this Government to de-nationalise the banks. They want to de-nationalise and achieve that purpose. Just because you are in power, you would like to achieve that objective. You have no faith in the system of nationalisation of the banks. When you do not have faith, of course, you would like to ensure that whatever the system you have introduced, you would like to carry on with it. Twenty-four lenders have signed the pact for faster NPA Resolutions. You are not interested to resolve this. You feel that everything should be referred to NCLT. You do not want to go in for any other mechanism. All these people have already returned to the Reserve Bank of India. It includes the State Bank of India. There should be a faster NPA resolution, but there is no action on this by this Government. Their solution is only NCLT. Now, NCLT has become the mechanism to siphon off the treasury of this Government. I think we will have to be extra careful on this. Banks are totally disabled now. On the one side, there is NCLT which is hanging as the Damocles’ sword on their head and on the other side, there is higher provisioning because of NPAs and a sharp rise in bad loans. Then, the Reserve Bank of India has found that banks have delayed in classifying accounts as NPAs. They are blaming each other. In addition to that, the Reserve Bank of India says that they have no power to act upon the Nationalised Banks. If there is no power, it is your duty to empower the Reserve Bank of India. It is the regulator. The regulator will have to be empowered to act. They say they have no power and you say you have power. I think, in this tangle, ultimately people have become powerless. So, I want you to apply your mind on that. In fact, the divergence in NPA as on 31st March, 2018 stood at more than Rs. 60,000 crore, as compared to Rs. 43,500 crore as on 31st March, 2016. The bad loans are more than 12 per cent today and there is no mechanism to address this issue, except asking the banks not to lend. The credit growth has come down, credit to farmers has come down, credit to investments has come down and bad loans lost to banks based on the offers made by suitors rise to a very high amount and you want to adopt more methods to siphon off the funds of the banks. All mechanisms have been strengthened to hound bankers and the indiscriminate hunt for banking staff will scare off even honest lending at a time when the Indian economy has to recover. So, you do not want Indian economy to recover. I think this Bill is of no consequence. It will not serve the purpose. Even if it serves, it will serve only the interests of one or two individuals, rather the economy of the nation. An amount of Rs. 81,000 crore has already been waived off after this Government came to power. But you are not prepared to give even a pie to farmers. There is no money for farmers, but there is plenty of money available for big industrialists. This will further strengthen their hands for lending adequately or more to these corporate bodies. The Congress Party is not against good corporate bodies. We are only against those bad corporate bodies who are out to siphon off the funds of banks, looting the banks and running away from this country. They are consciously moving from this country to that country because you are incapable of catching them. By merely passing an Act, you are not going to get them. What happened to your executive hand? That has been crippled. You are not in a position to execute even the present law, but you want an additional law. I think there may be a purpose under that so that you can pick and choose cases. With these words, I thank you very much for the time given to me. But I again insist that this Bill may be referred to the Standing Committee. If the Government is really and honestly wanting to achieve the real intent of setting up NCLT, this Bill should be referred to the Standing Committee. … (Interruptions) We do not want to take the credit for this. You give 15 days’ time, we can give the Report. What is the hurry? You justify it here. They have already waited for the last two months. They can wait for another month and refer this Bill to the Standing Committee. DR. P. VENUGOPAL ( TIRUVALLUR ): Hon. Deputy-Speaker, Sir, I am thankful to you  for giving me this opportunity to speak on the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Second Amendment) Bill, 2018. In effect, this Bill replaces the Ordinance promulgated by the Government on 6th June, 2018.  The Interim Finance Minister while introducing this Bill in this House this week had said that ‘in order to finetune the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, an Insolvency Law Committee was set up by the Government to suggest amendments to the IBC.’  Based on the recommendations of the ILC, this Bill has been brought in the Parliament.  It seems to me that this Government has a fetish for   issuing Ordinances. The IBC (First  Amendment)  Bill, 2018 also essentially replaced the Ordinance promulgated by the Government on 23rd November, 2017.  Not only this, the Government amended the Banking (Regulation) Act on 5th May, 2017 by issuing an Ordinance authorising the Reserve Bank to issue directions to any banking company to initiated insolvency and resolution process in respect of the default   under the provisions of IBC. It is common knowledge that the Ordinance route to legislate is resorted to by the Executive to meet certain exigencies.  Since the Bill under discussion, basically gives effect to the recommendations of the Insolvency Law Committee, what were the compelling circumstances that forced the Government to issue an Ordinance when it could have easily waited for the Monsoon Session, which was hardly a month away? A concern was raised by my dear friend Shri Mahtab-ji, when the Bill was introduced last week in this House, regarding the real intent of the Government in using the Ordinance route.  Last month, in one of the resolution cases concluded under IBC, banks have taken a huge 83 per cent haircut on the sale of Alok Industries bagged by the Reliance Industries-JM Financials ARC combine for just Rs. 5,000 crore.  Alok Industries owed its creditors an amount of about Rs. 30,000 crore. The resolution plan of Reliance  was put to vote before the Committee of Creditors of Alok Industries on June 20th and  received the assent of 72 per cent  of the total creditors.  It is very interesting to note that the voting threshold required to pass a resolution was lowered to 66 per cent from 75 per cent on June 6th by issuing the Ordinance, just 14 days before the date when the CoC of Alok Industries was scheduled to meet to approve the resolution plan submitted by Reliance. This plan to get Alok Industries at a throwaway price of Rs. 5,000 crore was rejected by the same CoC on its meeting held on 13th April especially in view of the fact that this company has an asset base of about Rs. 32,000 crore as per the latest available balance sheet. A perception has built up that the Government is working for the benefit of some corporates that the resolution of Alok Industries was facilitated with the assistance of the Government by amending the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code with such alacrity, which is rarely seen otherwise.  It is very apparent that IBC was amended in such  a haste with the objective to allow Reliance to take over Alok Industries, and in the process, the banks took a massive haircut of 83 per cent. Sir, I would urge upon the hon. Minister that in the name of NPA clean up, the Government should not be seen promoting crony capitalism. SHRI MALLIKARJUN KHARGE ( GULBARGA ):  But still you are supporting them.  What is this? … (Interruptions) DR. P. VENUGOPAL : Now, coming to the specifics of the Bill, I would like to say that the Bill seeks to amend the definition of the financial debt under Section 5(8)(f) by providing that an amount raised from an allottee under a real estate project shall be deemed to be an amount having the commercial effect of a borrowing. The homebuyers are now classified as financial creditors. They can now initiate the insolvency process against an erring defaulting company, and seek the benefits of the resolution plan. But if the resolution fails and the company goes into liquidation, the amended law does not state whether homebuyers being unsecured creditors will get as much claim on assets of the company as secured financial creditors. Being treated as 'secured' or 'unsecured' is important in the "waterfall" mechanism which sets out the order of priority in which, proceeds from the sale of liquidation assets are to be distributed under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code. In my state Tamil Nadu, there is a practice of having two separate agreements between homebuyers and builders for land and apartment which gives the customer the status of a secured creditor. Maybe the Government can take cue from this. Hon. Deputy Speaker, Sir, my second point is that in a big relief to MSME sector, a new Section 240 A has been inserted in the Code. The new Clause enables the promoter of MSME to bid for his enterprise undergoing Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process provided he is not a wilful defaulter and does not attract other disqualifications not related to default. It is good that the Government has realised sooner than later that MSMEs form the backbone of the Indian economy in terms of employment generation and economic growth. This is a welcome step as business of an MSME attracts interest primarily from its promoter. There may not be other resolution applicants in a number of resolution cases of MSMEs and excluding the promoter also would have only led to more liquidation of MSMEs. However, it would be better if the Government provides a debt threshold so that companies with high debt but low turnover do not misuse the carve-outs. My third point is that the Bill seeks to amend Section 21 by allowing "class of creditors" exceeding specified number to be represented by an authorized insolvency professional. New section 25A has been inserted to provide for the rights of such authorized representatives. This will also enable the home-buyers to have an insolvency professional as their representative in the proceedings. This is a welcome amendment as it will ensure that serious deliberations take place in CoC meetings with adequate representations of all the effected parties but without the attendant raucousness if thousands of people gather to attend the meeting of CoC. The Bill amends Section 10 of the Code by providing for special resolution for initiating CIRP by corporate debtor itself. Since commencement of CIRP is a major decision for the corporate debtor and may have a huge impact on its functioning or even may lead to its liquidation, a special resolution passed by the shareholders of the corporate debtor is necessary. The Bill has closed the loophole which was being exploited by unscrupulous guarantors by amending the sub- Section 3 of Section 14 by stating that moratorium under 14(1) would not apply to guarantors of the Corporate Debtor. There were conflicting views of the Allahabad High court and NCLT Mumbai over this matter. This amendment settles the debate on this issue. The Bill seeks to amend Section 31 of the Code by providing that the resolution professional shall obtain necessary approvals required under any law for the time being in force within 1 year from the date of approval by NCLT or within such period as provided for under the law, whichever is later. This amendment basically gives effect to the suggestion of the ILC on this issue. The provision does not make it clear whether obtaining such statutory approvals within the specified time frame is a condition precedent for maintainability of the resolution plan or a consequential mandatory obligation on the part of the successful resolution applicant. What would happen if the resolution applicant fails to get regulatory approvals within the specified time frame? I would like to know whether the hon. Minister would clarify this issue. The Bill inserts clause (e) to Section 17(2) of the Code to provide that the interim resolution professional shall be responsible for complying with the requirements under any law for the time being in force on behalf of the corporate debtor. The amendment incorporates the recommendation made by ILC by making the IRP responsible for the statutory compliances while managing the affairs of the corporate debtor. However, it must also be provided in the Code that the IRP shall not be held liable for any acts done without his knowledge or connivance and for acts which do not arise out of his conduct. Section 30 of the Code has been amended to waive away the requirement of shareholders’ approval required under the Companies Act, 2013 or any other law for the time being in force, for implementation of actions under the resolution plan. This amendment legislates the Ministry's clarificatory circular on this issue. I would urge upon the hon. Minister to reconsider this proposal as it might have adverse impact on the rights of minority shareholders. Section 231 of the Code has been amended to provide for bar of jurisdiction of civil courts or authorities in matters under jurisdiction of the adjudicating authority and the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (IBBI). IBBI is a regulatory body having regulatory oversight over the Insolvency Professionals, Insolvency Professional Agencies, Insolvency Professional Entities and Information Utilities. IBBI is not a judicial body. It is very strange that the Government proposes to put the matters under IBBI beyond the jurisdiction of courts. This is not a tenable proposition and is liable to be struck down by the Judiciary. Therefore, I would propose the hon. Minister to seriously reconsider this clause in the amendment Bill. With these observations and clarifications, I conclude. Thank You, Sir. PROF. SAUGATA ROY ( DUM DUM ): Thank you, Sir. I rise to speak on the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Second Amendment) Bill, 2018. This Bill seeks to replace the Ordinance which was promulgated on June 6, 2018. Before I speak on the Bill itself, I need to mention two points – it is nothing personal.  First, I want to know whether Shri Piyush Goyal is a caretaker Finance Minister or a full-fledged Finance Minister.  It is because, the question has been raised because the Twitter handle of the Finance Ministry shows Shri Arun Jaitley as Finance Minister. HON. DEPUTY SPEAKER: Even in his speech itself, he said that Shri Arun Jaitley is the Finance Minister.  He never claimed that he is the Finance Minister. PROF. SAUGATA ROY : Let him clarify it. HON. DEPUTY SPEAKER: No, he already spoke. PROF. SAUGATA ROY : Sir, why is he speaking on his behalf? HON. DEPUTY SPEAKER: It is not on his behalf but because he spoke on that day.  I want to pass on the message to you. PROF. SAUGATA ROY: Sir, at the back of the Bill, it is written: “Shri Piyush Goyal, Minister of Railways, Coal, Finance and Corporate Affairs”.  So, I do not know what he speaks and what he says.  I want this clarification to be made. The other point I want to note is this.  Yesterday, there was a big victory for the Opposition in this country against this Government.  Shri Piyush Goyal, in a letter to our Joint Committee on the Financial Resolution and Deposit Insurance Bill, said that they have decided to withdraw the Bill. This is the first time, in the face of Opposition by the Opposition, that the Government withdrew the Bill about which they are very serious. There was a nationwide outcry against the bail-in provision where systemically important financial institutions could go into depositors’ money to bail-in. Mr. Goyal wrote to the Chairman of the Committee. It is very wise of him because if that Bill was brought, the Opposition would not have to do anything. They would lose anyway the election.  So, good wisdom has prevailed on them which is good but I see it as the victory of the Opposition. Thirdly, I remember that when this IBC code was brought to this House, Mr. Jaitley wanted to pass it in a hurry.  I had to speak for one hour on that day so that the Bill was referred to the Joint Committee.  Ultimately, the Bill was passed and this Bill became the part of the law.  Now, I do not know why, within two years of having a new Bill which was drafted after much consultation, the Minister and the Government wants to bring in so many changes in the Bill which is only two years old. This Government did the same with the Company’s Law. The Act which is not fully tested, they went for an amendment.  They are doing the same with this.  … (Interruptions) HON. DEPUTY SPEAKER: Mr. Dubey, do not divert his attention. प्रो. सौगत राय : उसके बाद बिल को अमेंड करने की इतनी जल्दी क्या थी? कानून पहले दो-चाल साल तक चले, उसके बाद अमेंडमेंड लाया जाए। हड़बड़ी में अमेंडमेंड लाना कोई बुद्धिमत्तापूर्ण काम नहीं है। निशिकान्त जी आप इंटेलिजेन्ट आदमी हैं, आप इस चीज को समझते हैं।This is not to say that there is nothing good about this amendment.  One best thing is that the relief is given to home buyers.  They will be the part of the financial creditors.  The Bill clarifies that an allottee under the real estate project will be considered as a financial creditor.  Now, I was wondering if this collides with the Real Estate Regulation Act where there is a regulator also. I considered and found that in RERA Act , it is limited to only one construction company.  But one of my friends explained to me that if it comes under this Bill, then the whole company would be affected.  Take the case of Jaypee Group.  They are not giving flats to people in Greater Noida who have deposited the money.  Now, this Bill will allow the flat allottees to claim as creditors and they may get the money back. So, this is a good point in the Bill.  But the weakness of the Bill is that this Bill establishes the rights of the rich over the ordinary people because the unsecured creditors will be finished with this Bill.  A company has dues to many small people like small suppliers, small traders and so on and so forth. Now, if you give 51 per cent resolution, then only the big capitalists will get their due and unsecured creditors will get nothing. The other danger about the Bill which I will point out in detail later is that this Bill seeks to create a monopoly.  You see Tata’s are buying up Bhushan Steel which means two or three steel companies like Tata and Jindal will gobble up all the steel industry. Then they will form a cartel and control the steel prices.  Recently, Shri Gadkari Ji had said that cement companies are cartelizing. This cartelization will take place in the steel industry through this Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code. 16 00 hrs 

          The other good point about this Bill is this. For the first time, it covers the MSMEs. Earlier, the MSMEs were not fully touched. The Bill states that the ineligibility criteria for resolution applicants regarding NPAs and guarantors will not apply to person applying for resolution of MSMEs. The Central Government may modify or remove other provisions in the Code while applying them to MSMEs because normally there would not be many buyers for the MSMEs. So, unless you give some concessions, these MSMEs, which employ a large number of people, will just be left closed. So, this inclusion of MSMEs is a good step in this Bill. Then, the dangerous part of the Bill is-- I will go into it later as to how it has affected--voting threshold of the Committee of Creditors. The Code specifies that all decisions of the Committee of Creditors be taken by majority of at least 75 per cent of the financial creditors. This Bill lowers the threshold to 51 per cent. For certain key decisions, voting threshold has been reduced from 75 per cent to 66 per cent. This includes (i) appointment and replacement of the resolution professional and (ii) approval of the resolution plan. This is dangerous for corporate democracy, as I will show you later. I need not go into the actual details of what the condition of banking industry is. We are in the worst crisis and there is a slow push towards de-nationalisation of banks that Mr. Veerappa Moily had pointed it out. There are, in total, 963 wilful defaulters who together owe Rs.1,10,000 crore to the banks, according to the Government’s reply. The banks are in dire trouble. Now the Reserve Bank has stepped in and they have introduced what is known as ‘Prompt Corrective Action’ (PCA). What does that mean? The Reserve Bank has asked certain banks that they should not expand; they should not open new branches. It has told a bank like Dena Bank that they cannot lend at all. Now what will banks do, if they do not lend? The banks’ income is by lending the money of the depositors. Now, in order to save the banks, the Reserve Bank is talking of PCA. You do not lend at all. In this crisis, under Mr. Veerappa Moily’s Chairmanship, the Committee on Finance met all the top bankers of the country many times. They say they see some hopes in the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC). Now, the moot question is: whether the IBC is the solution? What is IBC leading to? The IBC is leading to what? Even Mr. Venugopal, whose Party supported the Government on the No Confidence Motion, said this is leading to crony capitalism. I will give you a few examples. Let us see the case of Bhushan Steel where the loan outstanding referred to NCLT was Rs.56,000 crore. The Tatas have taken over that company for Rs.35,200 crore. So, the banks have lost Rs.21,000 crore. That is a haircut of nearly 40 per cent. Is it resolution? श्री किरीट सोमैया जी ने बोला कि कुछ तो मिला, 21 हजार करोड़ रुपया एन.सी.एल.टी. का है या सरकार का है, यह गरीब डिपाजिटर्स का है, उसको आपने टाटा के लिए हेयरकट दिया। Look at Electrosteel. It is a factory in Bokaro. The dues to the banks were Rs.13,600 crore. Vedanta, Anil Agarwal-led company has purchased it for Rs.5,320 crore. Banks sacrifice Rs.8400 crore and haircut is 60 per cent. In Bhushan Steel, the haircut was 40 per cent. In Electrosteel Steel Ltd., the haircut is 60 per cent. Now, comes the Alok Industries’ deal. The company owes to the banks Rs.30,000 crore. Do you know how much Reliance has taken it over for? It is just for Rs.5000 crore that Reliance took it over. The banks sacrificed Rs.25,000 crore and the haircut in this case is 83 per cent. Mr. Mahtab, who opposed the introduction of this Bill, pointed this out very boldly. He said that this Ordinance was brought so that Reliance could acquire Alok Industries for a cheap price and the voting percentage was brought down from 75 per cent to 66 per cent. It means, if 66 per cent stakeholders agree, the deal is through. So, it is just for the sake of Reliance that the Government brought in an Ordinance. Sir, the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code in which all parties participated is a good law. When the bankers come to us, they say that the only hope they see is in the IBC that they can recover some of the money that has gone. But, Sir, the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code is not a panacea; it is not a cure for all ills of the banking system. So, we have led the country into a morass, into a blind alley and I really do not know as to how we would come out of it. Sir, one of the strong points of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code is that it has said that within 180 days corporate insolvency would be resolved. The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code is essentially limited to the corporate in the sense that it deals with only the corporate part. The Part-III of the Code, which deals with insolvency, resolution and bankruptcy for individual and partnership firm is yet to be commenced. So far, the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code is regarding the corporates and their insolvency resolution. Now, let me take the example of Ruias, that is, Essar Steel. In the case of Essar Steel, it has crossed 270 days because both the companies, which were bidding, Numetal and ArcelorMittal, were belonging to Lakshmi Mittal and were found by the resolution professionals to be ineligible to participate in the bidding process, that is, Numetal – because of its association with Rewant Ruia, son of the promoter of Essar Steel and ArcelorMittal – because of it owes bankers money in its capacity as a promoter of Uttam Galva Steel. Despite of IBC’s specifying that it has to be resolved within 180 days, it has not happened. So, I would urge the Minister that in the deepening gloom that surrounds the banking industry, it is putting the hard-earned money of depositors at risk and putting the future of country’s economy at risk. The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code may have been a shining light, but if the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code continues in this way in its effort to support crony capitalism in giving hair cut – this is the word that I learnt from my friend, Shri Uday Singh, who talks of haircut, waterfall mechanism of bitcoins, cryptocurrencies. … (Interruptions) Sir, he is very knowledgeable … (Interruptions) HON. DEPUTY SPEAKER: Do not reply to others. … (Interruptions) PROF. SAUGATA ROY : Sir, the other thing that I want to mention is that only 12 companies were referred to NCLT by RBI, but under IBC … (Interruptions)       another 30 have gone in for liquidation. The problem is that you are not resorting companies. Shall I read the list of companies which have gone into liquidation? HON. DEPUTY SPEAKER: No. Please conclude. PROF. SAUGATA ROY : Bhupen Electronics, Wind-Ways Packaging, REI Agro etc. have gone into liquidation. HON. DEPUTY SPEAKER: Everybody knows that. PROF. SAUGATA ROY : I would like this law, caretaker Finance Minister, to succeed because as an Indian, I cannot afford to see our banking industry collapsing. If this provides a ray of hope in the pervading gloom, this is good. I would request him to please see that the haircut advantages do not go to the pockets of the money-bags of the country. I also support Mr. Moily’s proposal to send it to the Standing Committee headed by him. Thank you. SHRI BHARTRUHARI MAHTAB ( CUTTACK ): Mr. Deputy Speaker, Sir, this is the second amendment relating to the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code Bill that we are deliberating today, which has been followed by the Bill. Actually, the gazette notification was issued on 6th June, 2018. This date is very specific because it is the day when a decision was taken by the Government to support one specific company and that promoted this Ordinance. … (Interruptions) It is a big amendment. A number of clauses are there. This amendment runs into 40 clauses. I was not opposed to all the clauses the day I stood up and I had specifically mentioned this. Today also, I am mentioning that it is clause no. 25 relating to Section 33 of the principal Act, about which my friend, Mr. Premachandran has mentioned, Dr. Venugopal has mentioned and Prof. Saugata Roy has also mentioned. There was a Secretary-level committee which was entrusted with the task, after the November Ordinance, after the first amendment was moved and it was passed in this House and by the Parliament. The Secretary-level committee gave a report to the Government. I would like to understand from the hon. Minister specifically whether they suggested an amendment to Section 33 , which he has incorporated in clause 25? Was it there in their recommendations or not? If there was some recommendation from the Secretary-level committee, then one can say that it has nothing to do with the specific company and you can justify. If it is not there, then you have to explain what prompted you to bring an Ordinance in the month of June. The House had adjourned and it was supposed to be convened in the month of July. What prompted you to bring an Ordinance hurriedly or why could you not wait for another 30, 40 or 50 days? You could have brought a Bill during this Session. During this period, what has happened and what specific steps have been taken through this Ordinance that has helped the NCLT, that has helped to do away with bad debt and that has helped different banks or different industries where resolution has not taken place. If that can be explained to us, as Shri Udasi always says, the country will be benefited. It will also help to understand what specific steps have been taken because of this Ordinance, what it has forced the Government to think that there is a necessity of an Ordinance and the Hon’ble President has been forced to sign it. It is mentioned there that the corporate Houses, with their deep-pockets, can bid for multiple distressed assets under the insolvency process without getting themselves disqualified under Section 29A of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code.  This Section was incorporated in the original Act through an Ordinance in November, 2017.  Again, another amendment with a number of clauses has come in this Second Amendment Bill also.   This is provided in this second amendment. Why could it not be thought of in the first amendment itself, in November, 2017?  This clearly demonstrates that we are trying to amend this Act just as and when the matter comes and when our wisdom dawns upon us. I think that this Government is a thinking Government.  At the time of demonetisation, a new notification was coming every day. It is a sign of a thinking Government. So, in this case also, a number of sections are being amended repeatedly. In the new Bill, Section 29A, will apply to a resolution applicant holding a non-performing assent account due to the acquisition of a distressed assets with an NPA account for three years and from the day of such acquisition.  This will ensure that the corporates that have already bought a distressed asset are not prohibited from bidding for more such assets. I think It has a different connotation. This will also offer a disqualification breather to financial entities holding NPAs. They, too, will be exempted from Section 29A. This Bill, most importantly, treats the homebuyers as financial creditors giving them a better say in the resolution plan of developers. Any amount raised from an allottee of a real estate project will be deemed to be an amount having the commercial effect of debt or borrowing.  The Bill has defined the expression ‘allottee’ and ‘real estate project’ which was not there earlier. Further this Bill allows the promoters of MSMEs to bid for their companies in any insolvency process. It also empowers the Union Government in public interest to exempt MSMEs from application of any other provisions of the Code. I will come to this aspect a little later.  I will seek the clarification from the Hon’ble Minister of MSMEs, how it is going to benefit the entrepreneurs to a greater extent. The Bill provides for the insertion of a new Section 12A to permit the withdrawal of application admitted for initiation of insolvency resolution process. The application can be made only with the approval of 90 per cent of voting share of the Committee of Directors. There are other provisions in the Bill.  The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India will be given a developmental role similar to other regulators such IRDAI and PFRDA. It will also be given the power to regulate the working and practice of certain professionals under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code(IBC). The Bill further provides that the Limitation Act of 1963 will be applicable to the proceedings or appeals under the IBC.  These are the new provisions which have come under this Amendment.  But the objections that I have relates to the provision of the lowering of the voting threshold for various important decisions of the Committee of Creditors to 66 per cent, and  to 51 per cent for routine decisions. Here, I come to what this Section says. Clause 25 states that : However, a Supreme Court judgement states that the admission requires application of judicial binding. What if the defaulting company has a counter claim against the creditor? What will happen if there is an error in the calculation, or if the service wasn’t fully provided for which claim is being made, or if it is a frivolous claim? For all this, the apex court has said, Judicial Bench should `hear out’ the parties. But it can lead to untold delays by adjournment. The Law Minister is before us today. It can lead us to a number of adjournments. Therefore, a template approach is made to reduce the time drastically. It is high time to strengthen the IBC by templatising the admission process and make it largely procedural. Only in small minority of cases will a judicial hearing and scrutiny be needed. This will go a long way in making this landmark law more effective. These are suggestions which I am making before this House, and also through you, to the Government. The Code postulates two types of creditors, namely, a financial creditor, and an operational creditor. Financial creditor is defined as any person to whom a financial debt is owed. An operational creditor is one to whom operational debt is owed. On 23rd November, 2017, by an Ordinance, Section 29(a) was inserted after Section 29 of the principal Act. The purpose of this amendment was to restrict people who with their misconduct `contributed to default of company’ or who are otherwise undesirable or could misuse their position due to lack of restriction and regain control of the corporate debtor. However, the element of misconduct is conspicuously absent. `Misconduct’, I would say, is conspicuously absent in Section 29 (a. Why am I saying this? I am saying this because the Chairman of the Finance Committee repeatedly requested you to refer it to the Finance Committee for consideration. These are certain questions which remain unanswered. Therefore, the question that begs answers are these. How can misconduct be established without adjudication? Why should stakeholders, who are victims of bona fide business failures, be excluded from the resolution process? A legal challenge to this amendment could well result in the amendment being declared as ultra vires of Article 14 and 19(1)(g) of the Constitution, that empowers the citizens. Coming to the MSME sector, it actually is restricting. This amendment, I apprehend, may restrict relief proposed for MSMEs. The exemptions for MSMEs from the provisions of Section 29(a) has been considered, after it was found there was little investor interest, apart from promoters. While earlier it provided exemptions  for MSMEs from all disabilities under Section 29(a) , the exemptions are now proposed to be restricted to only two situations – under Clause C and Clause H. There is a need to reconsider. I had stated earlier in May this year that Bhushan Steel was sold to Tata Steel. Almost 65 per cent of the loan was recovered; and 35 per cent was written off. This was termed as a very successful resolution of a bad loan. I had drawn the attention of the House to Alok Industries, a textile company, where a haircut was done for about 83-84 per cent. This is exactly the opposite of the Bhushan Steel Resolution. Reliance Industry and JM Financial Asset Reconstruction Company combined were the sole bidder and had given a ‘take it or leave it’ offer to the Committee of Creditors in April and this Ordinance came in the month of June. The CoC could not gather enough votes to act on the resolution plan. The proposal got 70 or 71 per cent of the votes while 75 per cent votes were needed. An Ordinance amending the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code lowered the minimum votes needed for passing a resolution plan to 66 per cent from 75 per cent. I fail to understand as to how this 66 per cent came in. It could have been 50 per cent, 51 per cent or 67 per cent, a little bit of arithmetic could be done, but it came to 66 per cent. The NCLT accepted the resolution plan. There was a re-do of voting of the voting process. The sole bid went through after the match was fixed. The issue is that when a haircut is being done, all are happy; the bank is happy, the auditor is happy, the promoter is happy and this Government is also happy. We heard that another member from the Treasury Bench was also very happy. If any member from this side raised the objection relating to the massive amount of money being siphoned off by promoters in active connivance with bankers and auditors, we hear jeers from the Treasury side. An hon. MP from the Treasury Benches was singing eloquence about the resolution mechanism being followed now. I would like to remind him of one Shri Rajendra Ganatra, a Mumbai-based resolution professional, who estimates that bad loan average recovery will only be 10-15 per cent. We know the amount of bad loan is expanding and is getting multiplied. It is becoming a humongous affair. What would it actually be? This is what Shri Rajendra Ganatra has said, “it would not be more than 10-15 per cent even if IBC come into force”. Before I conclude, I must say that the bad loan resolution does nothing to break the nexus between bankers in Public Sector Banks and promoters. Banks face no punishment for writing off 84 per cent of the loan. Where are the reports of forensic audit? Should nobody be held responsible? Public money of billions of rupees looted by promoters in connivance with bankers is being written off but here, it is being hailed as a success. This is not something one should relish. The bigger question is: Who is going to protect the public money? This law is framed to retrieve as much money from the bad debt. But adequate measures need to be taken to go into the issue of loot of public money. If IBC is unable to do that, let the Minister of Finance and Corporate Affairs, who is a wise person, share his wisdom with this House. SHRI PIYUSH GOYAL : Three- four hon. Members have repeatedly talked about such thing. I thought it would be appropriate to set the record straight because I was also surprised when this issue was flagged off by Shri Mahtab earlier when I introduced the Bill. But I had forgotten about it because I never took it seriously and I never thought that there was any merit in the baseless allegation. But since Shri Premachandran, Shri Moily and Shri Mahtab have raised the same point, I thought for the benefit of the hon. Members first. Let me set that one issue right so that everybody looks at this whole Amendment with the positive spirit. Hon.Chairman Sir, the report of the Insolvency Law Committee came on 26th march, 2018. Several Members including Moily sahib, Chairman of the Standing Committee on Finance, have referred to the report. In fact, Moily sahib said that we have not considered 90 per cent of the report. I can give the details of how almost every clause of the report has been considered and accepted and brought into this amendment, which is why this is such a large amendment. There are a few things and we can put in public domain as to why we did not accept just a few parts of the report. The Committee has very illustrious members. If you look at the list of members, there are very eminent lawyers on the Committee. Presidents of Institute of Chartered Accountants, Company Secretaries Institute, Cost Accountants Institute; eminent bankers, Dr. M.S. Sahoo, Chairman of the IBBI, all of them are members. In a very elaborate way they have explained about voting share threshold for decisions of the COC. I would like to read, Sir, with your kind permission, from this report of March, 2018. They begin by saying, “ Section 21(8) of the Code provides that all decisions of the COC shall be taken by a vote of not less than 75 per cent of the voting share of the financial creditors.” Then they talk about all the representations that they had received. They also say that liquidation is often not passed because consensus is not being built up because of a small minority. That is something which an hon. Member himself had raised. Incidentally, I was reading the proceedings of Rajya Sabha and this has been raised in both Houses. In Hindi there is a saying, “Chit bhi meri, pat bhi meri”. That is what I think is happening today. It was being talked by the other side that because we have kept a very high threshold of 75 per cent, many possible resolutions, as hon. Kirit-ji said, are not going through which may lead to liquidation. In liquidation the value will be much less. So, bankers stand to lose much more. I will reply about why these banks are losing money and the so-called haircut which has not been understood by several Members, when I respond to the debate, but I thought this merits closure at this stage. Then they have looked at the US example and said, “The Committee also noted that globally bankruptcy laws prescribe different voting thresholds for decisions of the COC. In USA, approval of a plan requires 66 per cent or more voting. In UK, the approval of a plan under administration requires a simple majority.” Then, what are their recommendations? I would like quote para 11.6 which says, “After due deliberation and factoring in the experience of past restructuring laws in India and international best practices, the Committee agreed that to further the stated object of the Code that is to promote resolution (The object is not to close all companies and make all people jobless.), the voting share for approval of resolution plan and other critical decisions may be reduced from 75 per cent to 66 per cent or more of the voting share of the financial creditors. In addition to approval of the resolution plan under Section 30(4) , other critical decisions are extension of the CIRD beyond 180 days, replacement or appointment of RP, passing a resolution for liquidation under Section 33(2) . Further, for approval of the other routine decisions for continuing the corporate debtor as going concern, the voting share threshold may be reduced to 51 per cent of the voting share of financial creditors.” This is as of March. I just saw the date of the company that all of you have been referring to. In respect of Alok Industries, the voting got 70 per cent share from Committee of Creditors on 13th April, 2018. The voting happened after the recommendations of the Insolvency Law Committee. It has nothing to do with that particular case. HON. CHAIRPERSON : You can state that in your reply. SHRI PIYUSH GOYAL : I can, Sir. But I thought since many hon. Members are under the wrong impression, let me clarify ab initio that this voting happened after this Committee report which we have accepted almost in toto. … (Interruptions) Further, there is no resolution which is complete as yet. It is not that the Committee of Creditors said that they are now considering this report or Ordinance. The NCLT itself directed the Committee of Creditors to consider the resolution afresh, possibly because there was only one resolution applicant who had approached the NCLT for resolving or taking over the company. … (Interruptions) The other option was liquidation and consequential loss of over 23,000 jobs directly or indirectly. Possibly the NCLT in their wisdom thought otherwise and asked for a re-vote. I think the hon. Members are casting aspersions on the judiciary which, to my mind, is not a very good sign. श्री विनायक भाऊराव राऊत ( रत्नागिरी-सिंधुदुर्ग ): सभापति महोदय, मैं इन्सालवेंसी एंड बैंकक्रप्सी कोड, 2016, सेकेंड अमेंडमेंट बिल का समर्थन करने के लिए खड़ा हूं। जैसा कि माननीय वित्त मंत्री श्री पीयूष गोयल जी ने अपने प्रस्तावना में बताया था कि अनुभव के आधार पर कई नए संशोधन करने की जरूरत पड़ती है। मैं गोयल साहब से पूरी तरह से सहमत हूं कि शासन करते वक्त कई ऐसे 100 वर्ष  पुराने कानून हैं, खासकर के जो फाइनेंशियल इंस्टिट्यूट्स हैं, उनमें ऐसे नए संशोधन लाकर लोगों को या आम जनता को फायदा हो सकता है यानी जो ईमानदारी से टैक्स पे करते हैं। उनके पैसे और टैक्स का संरक्षण कैसे कर सकते हैं? इसके बारे में अच्छी तरह से संशोधन करके जो नया कानून लाना पड़ता है, उसका मैं समर्थन करता हूं। जैसा कि समाचार-पत्र में एक खबर आयी  है कि इस कानून को कैबिनेट से मंजूरी मिलने के बाद तकरीबन 83 हजार करोड़ रुपये की वसूली ऑटोमेटिकली हो चुकी है। यह इस विधेयक की एक बड़ी सफलता है । मैं कहना चाहता हूं कि भविष्य में इस विधेयक के माध्यम से आम आदमी के पैसे का संरक्षण कैसे कर सकते हैं, इसकी तरफ आप अच्छी तरह से ध्यान दें। सभापति महोदय, देश के कई लोगों को कई तरह के लोन लेने पड़ते हैं, लेकिन खासकर दो वर्ग के लोग कर्ज लेने वाले हैं। एक आम आदमी है, जो ईमानदारी से कर्ज लेता है, ईमानदारी से बिजनेस चलाता है, ईमानदारी से व्यवसाय करता है और ईमानदारी से चाहे नेशनल बैंक हो, स्टेट बैंक हो, डिस्ट्रिक्ट बैंक हो या कॉपरेटिव क्रेडिट सोसाएटी हो उनके पास से जो लोन लेता है और रीपेमेंट सही वक्त पर करने की व्यवस्था करता है। लेकिन दूसरा वर्ग ऐसा है जो करोड़ों रुपये का कर्ज लेता है, उनका उद्देश्य यह होता है कि अपने बिजनेस के लिए एक बैंक से कर्ज,स्टेट बैंक से ले और अपना बिजनेस लिक्विडेशन में डालें और पैसे की लूट करें और लोगों को फंसाए। ऐसे वर्ग के ऊपर पाबंदी लगाने का काम इस विधेयक के माध्यम से जरूर होगा, ऐसी मेरी आशा है। मैं इच्छा व्यक्त करता हूं कि अगर यह कानून बीस वर्ष  पहले आता तो मुंबई की टेक्सटाइल इंडस्ट्री,जिसमें कम से कम दो लाख वर्कर्स काम करते थे। वे सारे फानेंशियल इंस्टीट्यूट्स का गैर-कानूनी उपयोग करके बर्बाद हो चुकी हैं। इसके कारण लाखों की संख्या में काम करने वाले गिरनी कामगार और उनके परिवार धवस्त हो चुके हैं। ऐसे आदमी और भी हैं,जैसे हमारे रत्नागिरी में भारतीय शिपयार्ड,मुम्बई के खम्बाटा एविएशन जहां हजारों लोग काम करते थे,उन्होंने कई फाइनेंशियल इंस्टिट्यूट से कर्ज लिया। उसका सही उपयोग अपना बिजनेस डेवलप करने के लिए एवं बिजनेस के ऊपर डिपेंड रहने वाले जो लेबर हैं, उन्हें प्रोटेक्ट करने के लिए होना चाहिए था, जो उन्होंने नहीं किया। पैसे का दुर्व्यापार किया और लोगों को फंसाया। इसके साथ-साथ असलियत से टैक्स पे करने वाले हिन्दुस्तानियों को भी फंसाने का काम किया। सभापति महोदय, इस विधेयक में मैं देखता हूं कि आम आदमी के लिए क्या किया गया है? आप बड़े-बड़े उद्योगपतियों पर पाबन्दी लगाएंगे,उनके पास से पैसा वसूल करने की व्यवस्था करेंगे। आज एनपीए सबसे बड़ी समस्या हो चुकी है। एनपीए चाहे नेशनल बैंक का हो, स्टेट बैंक का हो  डिस्ट्रीक्टबैंक का हो या कोआपरेटिव क्रेडिट सोसाइटी का हो, जो भी वर्ग एनपीए में जाते हैं, उनके पास से पैसा वसूल करना बहुत मुश्किल काम होता है। कोआपरेटिव क्रेडिट सोसाइटी,जनता के नजदीक की फाइनेंशियल इंस्टीट्यूशन होती है यानी जिस इंस्टीट्यूशन का उपयोग लोगों के हर दिन के काम के लिए होता है,उनके पास कई सामान्य आदमी जाते हैं और अपनी हर रोज की आवश्यकता के लिए धन की व्यवस्था करते हैं। कोआपरेटिव क्रेडिट सोसाइटी में ज्यादा संख्या में जो एनपीए होते हैं, उनकी रिकवरी करने के लिए आज कानून है, लेकिन उसका इस्तेमाल सही तरीके से नहीं होता है। इस विधेयक में आम आदमी को क्या मिला है?आम आदमी को यही मिला है कि जो हाउसिंग सिस्टम है, उसे इस  विधेयक के माध्यम से संरक्षण देने का बहुत बड़ा काम हो चुका है। सभापति महोदय, भारत देश का सबसे बड़ा शहर है- मुंबई। चाहे मुंबई हो,पूना हो, दिल्ली हो या कोलकाता हो, ऐसे बड़े शहरों में आज हजारों की संख्या में बड़ी इमारतों का निर्माण होने का काम होता है। बड़े-बड़े एडवर्टाइजमेंट्स दिए जाते हैं। चाहे दशहरा हो या दिवाली हो,बड़े-बड़े एडवर्टाइजमेंट्स आते हैं और कई तरीके से उनमें लोगों को भूल-भूलैया करने का काम किया जाता है। एक लाख रुपये में एक करोड़ रुपये का फ्लैट बुक करने जैसे नए-नए लालच दिए जाते है, जिनमें लोग फंस जाते हैं। लोगों को अच्छा घर लेने की जरूरत होती है और अच्छा घर लेने के लिए वे कई तरीके से कर्ज लेकर बुकिंग कराते हैं। बुकिंग कराने के बाद अनुभव ऐसा होता है कि पांच-पांच, दस-दस वर्ष  बीत जाने पर भी उन्हें फ्लैट नहीं मिलता है, घर नहीं मिलता है। ऐसे फंसे हुए लोगों को घर प्राप्त करके देने का एक महत्वपूर्ण काम इस विधेयक के माध्यम से होने वाला है,यह सबसे बड़ी सच्चाई है। मैं जानता हूं कि यह एक नया सिस्टम है। मैं मंत्री महोदय से जानना चाहता हूं कि आप एक नया सिस्टम रोल करने जा रहे हैं। जब आप नया सिस्टम रोल करेंगे तो इसका सही तरीके से आम जनता को लाभ मिले, इसके लिए इसमें कई नए लोगों की जरूरत भी पड़ेगी। अगर इनकम टैक्स की रिटर्न फाइल करनी हो तो सीए लोग होते हैं, कोर्ट में जाना हो तो वहां एडवोकेट रहते हैं, उसी तरह इस सिस्टम में काम करने के लिए या एनसीएलटी के पास जाने के लिए,एक नई कैटेगरी का निर्माण करने की जरूरत है, जैसे इनसॉल्वेंसी एंड रिज्योल्यूशन प्रोफेशनल्स। इसके बारे में मैं कहना चाहता हूं कि इस सिस्टम में, इस कैटेगरी में काम करने के लिए जिन लोगों की जरूरत है, आप उनको तैयार कैसे करेंगे?आपने अभी बताया है कि आज के वक्त इस कैटेगरी में काम करने के लिए करीब 23 हजार नए लोग तैयार होने वाले हैं। इस सिस्टम में काम करने के लिए ज्यादा से ज्यादा संख्या में लोगों को लगाने की जरूरत है, ताकि आम जनता को इसका फायदा मिल सके। एक नया कानून लाने की कोशिश इस सरकार के माध्यम से हो रही है, उसका सही फायदा लोगों को हो और आम जनता का पैसा न डूबे,लोगों को फाइनेंशियल इंस्टीट्यूशन्स पर भरोसा रहे,यह मैं आशा करता हूं, उम्मीद करता हूं। मैं फिर एक बार विधेयक का समर्थन करते हुए, अपनी बात समाप्त करता हूं। धन्यवाद। श्री राजीव प्रताप रूडी ( सारण ): सभापति जी, माननीय सदस्य ने बहुत अच्छा भाषण दिया है, वे फिर हम लोगों के साथ पूरे मन से आ गए हैं। SHRI JAYADEV GALLA ( GUNTUR ): Thank you Chairman, Sir.  Sir, the main thrust of the Bill is to provide relief to homebuyers as the amendment proposes to give them the status of financial creditors which helps them to represent in the Committee of Creditors and also make them an integral part of the decision-making process.  If you look at the recommendations of the Committee, it says and I quote: 17 00 hrs 

          So I think the clarification from the Minister is good but the Ordinance route definitely raises the eyebrows and definitely raises a lot of voices in the Parliament. As per the changes proposed in the Bill, there is only one point protecting the honest businessmen, i.e., regarding MSME.  The promoter can buy it back if the bids are too low.  I think that will really help in protecting the honest businessman who has gone bankrupt not because of his fault but because of various market circumstances or because of customers who refused to pay money or the suppliers who after taking advance do not pay him or because of the changes in the Government policy. Another important point is regarding the definition of wilful defaulter.  If he is a wilful defaulter, he cannot bid for his own company.  But the definition of wilful defaulter is given by the RBI.  In one of the definitions, it says,  ‘anyone who diverts the funds away from the company’.  If he has given a cheque from this company to another company for siphoning off the money, yes, he can be caught.  But more often than not, the mechanism of diversion is through over-invoicing purchases and then taking money back from the supplier or under-invoicing.  You sell your own property or goods to a colluding buyer and then take it at a much lower price.  So, over- invoicing and under-invoicing are mechanisms for siphoning off.  There is no mention of this in the Bill.  These cannot be proven easily.  They can be proved by the CBI.  They cannot be proved by audits or by the bankers. Sir, I will take the case of ABG Shipyard.  It has more than Rs.18000 crore claim from creditors like ICICI and CBI.  The offer that they got was for Rs. 5600 crore from a buyer but that will be paid after ten years or so.  The other offers from Reliance and others were not even worth considering.  But if it is liquidated, it is only Rs.2200 crore which they would get out of Rs.18000 crore.  But to make matters worse, this company has got the Navy orders to build ships.  Now if they cancel this, it will set the Navy back by ten years.  In such cases, how do you resolve?  I think we need to focus more on resolution and mechanisms of resolution.  In fact, the very term ‘resolving insolvency’ itself in literal terms is a contradictory term.  Insolvent means, it cannot be solved but you are trying to resolve it.  It needs great expertise or it needs support of the existing promoter to resolve the company. Why is there difference in recovery rates versus in other countries?  I think the same law treats dishonest, wilful defaulting bankruptcies as well as honest together.  That is why, I think we have all these issues between the Opposition and the Minister which he is trying to clarify.  How do other countries deal with it?  Why are the recovery rates so high in other countries?  It is because they have separate laws. Like I said, not all defaulters are fraudsters.  Many eminent people are defaulters starting with Abraham Lincoln who applied for bankruptcy twice; Thomas Jefferson – once; Ulysses S. Grant, the American civil war hero who went on to become the President applied for this; the Ford Motor Company went bankrupt; and even World Disney went bankrupt. So, we need laws to protect the honest defaulters and this Bill does not fully address it. SHRI P. KARUNAKARAN ( KASARGOD ):  Sir, I would like to participate in the discussion on the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Second Amendment) Bill, 2018. Sir, before I go to the Bill, I appreciate the Government as they have taken a decision to withdraw the FRDI Bill.  I appreciate the Government because it has taken a decision to withdraw the FRDI Bill.  At the time of its introduction in the House, the Government said that it is a landmark Bill for solving the financial issues. Now, the FRDI has become a dark-mark Bill as far as this legislation is concerned. Sir, we discussed this Bill – the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code – in 2016. I remember, I myself had participated in that discussion. Many hon. Members of this House, especially from the Opposition, had pointed out the basic reason as to why why the NPA is increasing and banks are unable to take action. We agreed that the 2016 Bill with limited purpose was useful, especially to take action against wilful defaulters and persons who have been mismanaging the institutions and flying away from the country. I would like to know what the urgency of this Ordinance is as has been questioned by other hon. Members of the House. Government has a right to bring an Ordinance. This may be for social need, or economic need or for administrative need. Can the Government cite any reason for bringing this Ordinance? The hon. Minister intervened in the discussion and said that there was a 14-member Committee which suggested for promulgation of an Ordinance. I agree that there was a 14-member Committee. Irrespective of whether it was a 14-member Committee or a four-thousand-member Committee, the issue is, what is the purpose? What is the objective of promulgation of this Ordinance? It was not for reasons of any social demand, or an economic demand or an administrative demand. But this was promulgated for reason for one person. That is why I am strongly opposing the promulgation of the Ordinance. The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 2018 was promulgated on June 6, 2018. It amends the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016. The Code provides for a time-bound process for resolving insolvency in companies and among individuals. Insolvency is a situation where individuals or companies are unable to repay their outstanding debts. The Code defines a financial creditor as a person to whom financial debt is owed. Such debt includes any amount raised, that has the commercial effect of borrowing. Financial creditors are a part of the Committee of Creditors which is responsible for taking key decisions related to the resolution. The Ordinance clarifies that an allottee under a real estate project will be considered a financial creditor. An allottee includes any person to whom a plot, apartment or building has been allotted, sold or transferred by a promoter. I do agree that there are a few beneficiaries that is with regard to the MSME or the home buyers.  But the main focus of this amendment Bill is that the Code specifies that all decision of the Committee of the Creditors be taken by a majority of at least 75 per cent of the financial creditors. The Ordinance now lowers the threshold to 51 per cent and for some decisions, the voting threshold has been reduced to 66 per cent. That includes appointment and replacement of the resolution professional and approval of certain actions of the resolution professional during the insolvency resolution process. Sir, here the Government has to clarify for whom this amendment has been made. What is the reason for reducing the voting share from 75 per cent to 51 per cent and in some cases from 75 per cent to 66 per cent? Sir, as has been stated by other hon. Members it is very clear that Alok Industries has got a benefit of Rs. 25,000 crore out of this and ESSAR steel company has got a benefit of Rs. 21,000 crore. So, it is not for social, economic or administrative purpose for which this Ordinance was promulgated. But it is very clear that it was meant to benefit one company, namely M/s Alok Industries. It is true that it has been reduced from 75 per cent. As we have discussed earlier during the debate on the Bill, 2016, why have you reduced it?  It is said in those days that Shri Jaitley has assured that you are going to take stern action.  Many suggestions have been given.  Now you are diluting the basic principle that you have taken in those days.  That is why this 75 per cent has been reduced to 66 per cent.   It is done only to assist some companies. ] 

Now it is very clear that it is not for the general purpose or the social purpose but only to assist someone. The cat is out of the bag which shows that this industry is related to Reliance.  So, I strongly oppose the amendment which is to promote one person and not brought for the welfare and stability of the banking system or institutions. We have very serious experiences of mismanaging the institutions looting public money.  All these were done under the protection of loopholes of some legislation.  Even though there were strong legislations, we could not take any action. For example, consider the issue of Vijay Mallya.  He has taken loans from various banks with securities.  He has to pay at least Rs. 900 crores to various banks and he left the country safely. As regards Punjab National Bank, Nirav Modi has taken Rs. 13,000 crore and left the country.  Now PNB is in a stage of collapse.  The Government has to become the guardian and guarantor of public banks but the changes that have come in the lending policy especially in the real estate sector and related projects have collapsed many of the banks.  This House has agreed to give Rs. 1000 crore to public banks to sort out their cash drain problem.  During the debate of the Insolvency Code, 2016, we had discussed these issues in detail.  Now the Government has again shown green signal for such wilful defaulters and persons who are mismanaging the institutions.  The purpose of the amendment is not clear there from the intervening of the hon. Minister. So, I strongly oppose this Bill and also the untimely Ordinance that the Government has issued. SHRIMATI BUTTA RENUKA ( KURNOOL ): Sir, I am extremely privileged to speak on this Bill as a continuation of my earlier speech when the Bill was introduced in 2016. We have been watching how this piece of legislation has come handy for the creditors in realising their dues in a speedy and systematic manner. It is not only realising the loans given by banks and other financial institutions, but it is more significant that it will put the industries on track under new managements improving productivity.  Recycling activity in economy will get stimulus leading to employment creation and growth in economy. Probably with a view to further strengthening the insolvency and bankruptcy mechanism and after watching the situation for about two years, the Government is bringing this legislation so as to fine tune the Code.  I welcome the amendments to the Code which are meant to further improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the resolution process. After we opened up our economy and started soliciting investments from abroad, such investors have been making their investments based on not only the return on investments but also the statutory and legal framework for the protection and safety of their investments. Insolvency and bankruptcy laws of our country have been the major bone of contention for many investors mainly because of the multiple number of laws and the time taken for the resolution of disputes.  This makes recovery of debt a cumbersome process. 17 14 hrs                      (Hon. Deputy-Speaker in the Chair) 

          The earlier Bill, to a large extent, has met these expectations.  However, certain irritants have been noticed and this Amendment Bill ensures plugging of loopholes. These amendments primarily aim at securing all real estate buyers. This will provide a lot of relief to home buyers who are generally middle-class salaried people. They will become on par with other creditors. This requires further clarification as there is some confusion with regard to their status. Reduction of voting threshold is another step aimed at quick dispersal. The passage of this Bill will enable quick and prompt action to be taken in the early stages of debt default by a firm, maximising the recovery amount. The creditors will not become victims of red-tape and promoters will directly become accountable for any financial lapses. Bankruptcy laws accept that business ventures can fail and allow entrepreneurs to get a fresh start. We all know that our banks are saddled with huge amounts of NPAs thereby choking the financial system. The time has come to overhaul the laws prevalent in our country, especially the laws concerning the financial sector. Amendments to the principal Act are welcome initiatives for creditors, investors and debtors alike. The streamlining of procedures, simplification of the insolvency process and fast-tracking of recovery are hallmarks of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, which will have a positive effect on India’s lending climate. Sir, even while supporting the amendments, I would like to express my concern and reservation on one aspect and that is the appeal process provided in the Bill subject to correction, if any. As per the provisions of the Bill, the National Company Law Tribunal and the Debt Recovery Tribunal are the adjudicating authorities. Their decisions could be challenged in Appellate Tribunals. These Appellate Tribunals are located in the National Capital or, at the most, in Metropolitan Cities and the further appeal can be done only in the Supreme Court of India. This will increase the cost of appeal process and put burden on the people. If the appeal process could be restructured to allow the appeals from the National Company Law Tribunal and the Debt Recovery Tribunal or even from the Appellate Tribunals to the High Courts and finally to the Supreme Court, it will be of great convenience and financial relief to all the parties involved. With these words, I conclude. श्री सुभाष चन्द्र बहेड़िया ( भीलवाड़ा ) : उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, आपने आईबीसी के दूसरे अमेंडमेंट पर मुझे बोलने का मौका दिया, इसके लिए मैं आपका आभारी हूं। उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, मैं इसके पक्ष में खड़ा हुआ हूं। आईबीसी वर्ष 2016 में लागू हुआ। इसके लागू होने के बाद काफी सकारात्मक परिणाम देखने को मिले। सबसे बड़ा परिणाम यह था कि छोटे-छोटे सप्लायर्स जो बड़ी कम्पनियों को माल सप्लायी करते थे, उनको पेमेंट नहीं होता था। ड्यू डेट पर पेमेंट न करने के बाद भी उनके पास कोई चारा  नहीं होता था, लेकिन आईबीसी के लागू होने के बाद यह परिवर्तन आया है कि यदि वह ड्यू डेट तक पेमेंट नहीं देता है तो वह इंसोल्वेंसी के प्रोसेस के तहत एप्लीकेशन लगा सकता है। इससे सभी छोटे सप्लायर्स को यह फायदा हुआ कि उनको समय पर पेमेंट मिलने लगी। जो कम्पनियां जान-बूझकर उनका पेमेंट रोकती थीं, वे समय पर पेमेंट देने लगीं। इससे छोटे सप्लायर्स की जो वित्तीय स्थिति खराब होती थी, वह ठीक होने लगी। यह बिल वर्ष  2016 में पास हुआ था। इसमें एक अमेंडमेंट वर्ष 2018 में आया था। वह अमेंडमेंट इसलिए जरूरी था क्योंकि इंसोल्वेंसी प्लान में कुछ एप्लीकेंट ऐसे आ गए थे जिनका कम्पनी की वित्तीय स्थिति बिगाड़ने में भी हाथ था। ऐसे एप्लीकेंट्स को रोकने के लिए पहला संशोधन वर्ष 2018 में लाया गया और उसमें सेक्शन 29(a) जोड़ा गया। उसमें सर्टन पर्सन्स को डिसक्वालिफाई किया कि वे रेज़ोल्यूशन प्लान के आवेदक नहीं हो सकते हैं। उसके बाद यह दूसरा संशोधन लाया गया है। इसमें सबसे महत्वपूर्ण अमेंडमेंट यह है कि लोग बचत करके अपने लिए घर  बुक कराते थे। मकान बुक कराने के बाद जो रियल एस्टेट की कंपनी है, वह समय पर मकान नहीं देती थी और अगर वह इंसॉलवेन्सी प्रोसेस में चली गयी तो मकान बुक कराने वालों का पैसा डूबने की स्थिति में आ गया। अब इस अमेंडमेंट के जरिए उसको फाइनेन्शियल क्रेडिटर की परिभाषा में लिया गया है। फाइनेन्शियल क्रेडिटर अर्थात जिन्होंने भी मकान बुक कराया है, सारे लोग मिलकर, जो भी रिजोल्यूशन प्लॉन होगा उसमें पार्टिसिपेट कर सकेंगे, क्योंकि उनका वोटिंग राइट फाइनेन्शियल क्रेडिटर व क्रेडिटर 

  

  

ऑफ कमेटी में होता है, इसलिए वे अपना पक्ष रख सकेंगे। इस अध्यादेश से पहले जो अपना पक्ष नहीं रख सकते थे, अब वे अपना पक्ष रख सकते हैं। इसके साथ-साथ मेरा एक और आग्रह है कि जिन्होंने अपनी जिन्दगी भर की कमाई बचाकर मकान लेने के लिए उसे बुक कराया है, अगर उनको प्रॉयोरिटी क्रेडिटर में ले लें, तो उन्हें बहुत बड़ी सुविधा मिलेगी। यह मंत्री जी से मेरी रिकवेस्ट है। एक अमेंडमेंट यह भी है कि पहले जो कॉर्पोरेट इंसॉलवेन्सी के लिए इनिशिएट करना चाहते थे या एप्लीकेशन लगाना चाहते थे, वे अपने आप बोर्ड में रिजोल्यूशन पास करके एप्लीकेशन लगा देते थे। परंतु इस अमेंडमेंट के बाद, बोर्ड का रिजोल्यूशन ही नहीं बल्कि 75 प्रतिशत शेयर होल्डर्स की सहमति के बाद ही कार्पोरेट अपनी एप्लीकेशन लगा सकता है। पहले जो डायरेक्टर बोर्ड में होते थे वे अपने इंट्रेस्ट के हिसाब से काम करते थे, लेकिन अब इसको रोका गया है और शेयर होल्डरों को यह पावर दी गयी है कि रिजोल्यूशन के लिए एप्लीकेशन दी जाए या न दी जाए, ऐसा करके बहुत बड़ा परिवर्तन लाया गया है। एम.एस.एम.ई. सैक्टर को भी इसमें छूट दी गई है क्योंकि जब सैक्शन 29(ए) में रिजोल्यूशन प्रोसेस को अप्लाई करने के लिए, डिसक्वॉलिफिकेशन दिए गए और उस एप्लीकेशन में इनको बाहर निकाला गया। अगर कोई छोटी कंपनी किसी कारण से बैंक को पैसा नहीं दे सकी या उसकी लॉयबिलिटी एन.पी.ए. हो गई तो केवल एम.एस.एम.ई. की जो कंपनी हैं, यानी माईक्रो स्मॉल एवं मीडियम इंटरप्राइजेस जितने भी हैं, उनको अब इसके कारण डिसक्वालिफाई नहीं किया जाएगा। यह बहुत बड़ा परिवर्तन इस अमेंडमेंट में लाया गया है। पहले जो मेन आई.बी.सी था, उसमें यह प्रोविजन नहीं था कि अगर किसी ने एप्लीकेशन लगाई है और उस पर प्रोसेस भी चालू हो गया है तथा रिजोल्यूशन प्लॉन भी आ गया, तब क्रेडिटर ऑफ कमेटी मिलकर एप्लिकेशन को विड्रा करना चाहें, तो यह प्रोविजन भी इसमें अभी डाला गया है। 90 प्रतिशत कमेटी के क्रेडिटर्स जो वोटिंग शेयर रखते हैं, वे अगर एग्री हो जाते हैं तो उस एप्लीकेशन को वे विड्रा कर सकेंगे। महोदय, चूंकि आपने घंटी बजा दी है और मैं बहुत अनुशासित मेंबर हूं, इसलिए मैं अपनी बात को समाप्त करता हूं। श्री प्रेम सिंह चन्दूमाजरा ( आनंदपुर साहिब ) : उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, मैं इंसॉल्वेंसी एंड बैंक्रप्सी कोड (सेकंड अमेंडमेंट) बिल, 2018 के लिए हो रही चर्चा में शामिल होने के लिए खड़ा हुआ हूं। जहां तक बिल का सवाल है, तो मैं समझता हूं कि यह बिल जिस तरह स्टैंडिंग कमेटी तथा बैंकिंग कमेटी में होकर आया है। वहां इस पर विचार-विमर्श होने के बाद फैसले हुए हैं। इसलिए अब इस बिल के संबंध में कोई विरोध नहीं होना चाहिए। इसकी इंप्लीमेंटेशन में अगर कोई शंका है तो उसके लिए सवाल खड़े किए जा सकते हैं। जैसा कि हम सब जानते हैं कि आज कोई कैसी भी नुक्ताचीनी करे, सच तो यह है कि देश की बैंकिंग प्रणाली पर से विश्वास उठ गया था। जब माननीय प्रधानमंत्री जी ने इस हाउस में कहा था कि 52 लाख करोड़ रुपए के एन.पी.ए. सही मायने में हैं, तो इस पर सब चिल्लाने लगे। 15लाख करोड़ रुपए के एन.पी.ए. हमारे कागजों में हैं। यह बहुत आश्चर्यजनक बात थी। अब इस पैसे को कैसे लाया जाए। मैं समझता हूं कि यह सही बात है, हमारे बुजुर्ग कहते हैं कि जब सब कुछ जाता देखिए तो आधा दिये बांट। यह भी कहा जाता है - भागते चोर की लंगोटी ही सही। जो मिलता है, वह तो ले लें। देश में क्या हो रहा था - लोग बैंकों में घोटाला करके भाग रहे थे, कोई बाहर जा रहा था, कोई अपनी फर्म का नाम बदल रहा था। हमारी आंखों के सामने यह खेल पिछले कई वर्षों से हो रहा है। हम इस सरकार को बधाई देना चाहते हैं कि कम से कम थोड़ा बहुत तो लाए, नहीं तो कुछ भी नहीं मिल रहा था। जहां तक इस बिल का सवाल है, मैं इस बिल के पक्ष में हूं। …( व्यवधान) जितना मिलता है, उतना तो ले लें, मगर बिल के बिना भी कुछ सवाल खड़े हो रहे हैं। मैं माननीय मंत्री जी से यह जरूर जानना चाहूंगा। मैं मंत्री जी से पहला सवाल यह पूछना चाहता हूं कि जिन्होंने इतने फ्रॉड और स्कैंडल किए या जिन्होंने करवाये, उनका क्या हुआ, उनके बारे में आपने क्या सोचा? दूसरा सवाल यह है कि ऐसी स्थिति आगे पैदा न हो, हमारी बैंकिंग प्रणाली में लोगों का विश्वास हो, हमारी अर्थव्यवस्था सही रास्ते पर चले, उसके लिए परमानेन्ट मैकेनिज्म क्या तैयार किया है? तीसरा सवाल यह है कि आपने इंडस्ट्री और कारपोरेट सैक्टर में जितना मिला, उतना लाने की बात की है। हम चाहते हैं कि किसानों के लिए आप कुछ करें, क्योंकि कृषि आज बहुत घाटे में जा रही है, किसान खुदकुशी कर रहे हैं। किसानों के लिए कोई वन टाइम सैटलमैंट प्रोग्राम या लोक अदालतों के द्वारा उनके मामलों का निपटारा हो, जिससे किसान कर्जमुक्त हो जाएं। जैसे आप इनसोलवेन्सी एंड बैंक्रप्सी कोड अमैंडमैंट बिल लेकर आए हैं, इसी तर्ज पर क्या सरकार किसानों को कर्जमुक्त करने के लिए, उनके सारे मामलों का निपटारा करने के लिए कोई ऐसा मैकेनिज्म ला रही है या ऐसी कोई व्यवस्था बना रही है? आज देश में किसान खुदकुशी कर रहे हैं और उनकी आर्थिक स्थिति बहुत खराब है, यह आप सब जानते हैं। हमारे पंजाब में इतना विश्वास दिलाया गया कि बैंकों का कर्जा, आढ़तियों आदि सबका कर्जा माफ हो जाएगा, लेकिन वह नहीं हुआ तो किसान खुदकुशी के रास्ते पर जा रहे हैं। हमारे कोऑपरेटिव सैक्टर के इदारे बंद हो रहे हैं, उन्हें डिफाल्टर डिक्लेयर कर दिया गया है। ऐसी स्थिति में, मैं भारत सरकार से जानना चाहता हूं कि इन सबके लिए भी आप इसी तर्ज पर कोई बिल लाएं तो बहुत अच्छा होगा। धन्यवाद। श्री जय प्रकाश नारायण यादव ( बाँका ): उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, आपने मुझे दिवाला और संशोधन अक्षमता संहिता (दूसरा संशोधन) विधेयक, 2018 पर बोलने की अनुमति दी है, मैं इसके लिए आपको बहुत-बहुत धन्यवाद देता हूं। सदन में दिवाला संशोधन बिल पेश किया गया है, यह सदन में क्यों पेश किया गया है और किसके लिए पेश किया गया है? क्या यह प्रो-पुअर है, गरीबों के लिए है, दलितों के लिए है, शोषितों के लिए है, उपेक्षितों के लिए है, मध्यम वर्ग के लिए है, किसान के लिए है, बेबस और लाचार के लिए है या दरवाजा, फाटक कहीं बंद किया जा रहा है और दूसरों के लिए खोला जा रहा है। इस पर हमें सोचने के लिए बाध्य होना पड़ता है। मैं मानता हूं कि यह प्रो-पुअर नहीं है। यह बड़े उद्योगपतियों के लिए गतिशील है। इसका दरवाजा उधर खुल रहा है। खास व्यक्तियों के लिए खुल रहा है। पूंजीपति और उद्योगपति इन दोनों ने हमारे देश को खोखला किया है। जैसे नोंच-नोंच कर खाते हैं, ऐसे नोंच-नोंच कर खाया है। जैसे बकरी घास से दोस्ती नहीं करती है …( व्यवधान) आप शांत रहिए, यदि आप एक सौ भी उठेंगे तो हम अकेले आप लोगों के लिए काफी हैं। …(व्यवधान) आप बैठ जाइए। एक बेटा, माननीय लालू जी हैं, जिन्होंने कहा कि हम अन्याय नहीं करेंगे, लेकिन कोई भी अगर गरीबों, पिछड़ों और दलितों पर अन्याय करेगा तो लालू यादव मरना पसंद करेगा, लेकिन अन्याय नहीं करेगा। …(व्यवधान) इसलिए शांति से सुनिए। …(व्यवधान) सत्ता में हैं तो विपक्ष का वार सहने के लिए कलेजा चौड़ा कर के रहिए, वर्ना हम बैठने वाले लोग नहीं हैं। …(व्यवधान) बैंकों और किसानों को खोखला किया गया है। …(व्यवधान) चंद बड़े उद्योगपतियों ने खोखला किया है। …(व्यवधान) हम ऋण से गरीबों को मुक्त करना चाहते हैं, किसानों को मुक्त करना चाहते हैं। किसानों के गले में गमछा लगा होता है। उन्हें दिन दहाड़े कहा जाता है कि तुम ऋण लिए हो तो जेल चलो। लेकिन बड़े उद्योगपतियों को माफी मिल जाती है। नीरव मोदी चला जाता है, विजय माल्या चला जाता है, मेहुल चोकसी चला जाता है, ललित मोदी चला जाता है। …(व्यवधान) गंगा की सफाई नहीं होती है, लेकिन दिन-दहाड़े बैंक को साफ कर के नीरव मोदी चला जाता है। …(व्यवधान) मुझे दो मिनट बोलने का मौका दीजिए। …(व्यवधान) अब जमीनों की बैंकिंग हो रही है। …(व्यवधान) नया जमींदार पैदा हो रहा है। गदरे के भाव से जमीनों को झारखण्ड में खरीदा जा रहा है। हमारे बैंक का दिवाला हो गया है। नोटबंदी में उद्योगपतियों को माफ किया और गरीबों को साफ किया है। जीएसटी ने खुदरा व्यापारी का सर्वनाश किया है। कहते थे कि स्विज़ बैंक का काला धन लाएंगे और अब कहते हैं कि वहां उजला धन है। …(व्यवधान)  कहते हैं कि स्विज़ बैंक का स्विच ऑन करते हैं तो ऑन ही होता नहीं है, ऑफ हो गया। …(व्यवधान) सन् 2019 में देश की जनता आपका भी स्विच ऑफ कर देगी। …(व्यवधान) मैं एक मिनट में अपनी बात समाप्त करता हॅूं। …(व्यवधान)  पांच सौ उद्योगपति देश से बाहर चले गए। आज टाटा हो, स्टील हो, टील हो, चिपकने का हो या जो भी हो। हम प्रम से यही कहना चाहेंगे कि एसोसिएशन बनाया जाए। जो कार्य है, रियल एस्टेट में मकान बने हैं, बिल्डर्स भाग गए हैं, उनको एसोसिएशन बना कर मकान दिया जाए और जो बिल्डर्स हैं, उन पर कठोर से कठोर दण्डात्मक कार्यवाही की जाए। देश सबका है, चमन-ओ-बगीचा सबका है। इसलिए सबको न्याय मिलना चाहिए और प्रो-पुअर काम होना चाहिए। श्री कौशलेन्द्र कुमार ( नालंदा ): उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, आपने मुझे दिवाला और शोधन, अक्षमता संहिता (दूसरा संशोधन) विधेयक, 2018 पर बोलने का मौका दिया है, इसके लिए बहुत-बहुत धन्यवाद। उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, 06 जून, 2018 के अध्यादेश के अनुरूप यह प्रस्ताव आया है और इसके अंतर्गत धारा 5 के खण्ड 8, धारा 10 और धारा 14 को संशोधित कर कानून को सुगम और स्पष्ट बनाए जाने का प्रावधान किया जा रहा है। एक नई धारा 12 (क) को जोड़ा जा रहा है। इससे कोई भी आवेदन वापस लेने की अनुमति दी जाएगी। जहां तक कुछ सदस्यों की आशंका है, चाहे मोइली साहब हों या प्रेमचन्द्रन जी हों, बहुत लोगों ने आशंका जाहिर की है ‍कि इस बिल से कुछ लोगों को फायदा मिलेगा। कुछ लोगों के लिए यह बिल लाया जा रहा है। अभी जय प्रकाश जी भी बोल रहे थे। ये लोग चाहते हैं, जब कांग्रेस पार्टी की सरकार दिल्ली में थी, तो हमको याद है कि पिछली बार कई तरह के घोटाले रोज़ सामने आते रहते थे, लेकिन कोई कानून नहीं बनाया जाता था। जब कोई संशोधन कानून लाया जा रहा है कि गरीबों का पैसा वापस आ जाए, तो यह तो अच्छा कदम है। गरीबों का पैसा वापस कैसे आएगा, बड़े-बड़े उद्योगपति, बड़े-बड़े बिल्डर्स मकान लेने के नाम पर पैसा लेते थे और वे पांच-दस साल मकान बना कर लोगों को नहीं देते थे। उसके लिए यह बिल लाया जा रहा है, न कि अभी हमारे साथी जय प्रकाश जी  जैसा बता रहे थे। हम लोग उस बिल का समर्थन करने के लिए यहां बैठे हैं। कांग्रेस पार्टी की सरकार में हमने देखा है कि लगातार कई तरह के घोटाले किए गए, लेकिन कोई बिल ला कर उसको सुधारने का प्रयास नहीं किया गया। मैं इस बिल का समर्थन करता हॅूं। मेरा एक छोटा सा सुझाव होगा कि ईमानदार कर्ज देनदारों को, अगर मौका मांगा जा रहा है तो उस पर भी विचार करने का प्रावधान होना चाहिए, साथ ही बैंकों ने भी कई धांधलियां की हैं, इसके लिए बैंकों को भी दण्डित किया जाना चाहिए। श्री जगदम्बिका पाल ( डुमरियागंज ) : महोदय, मैं आपका बहुत आभारी हूँ कि आपने मुझे एक बहुत महत्वपूर्ण बिल दिवाला और शोधन अक्षमता संहिता (दूसरा संशोधन) विधेयक, 2018, जिसे माननीय मंत्री जी लेकर आए हैं, पर बोलने का मौका दिया। मैं बहुत देर से सबको सुन रहा था। मैं उन बातों की पुनरावृत्ति नहीं करना चाहूँगा,उन बातों को दोहराना नहीं चाहूँगा। हम सभी लोग अवगत हैं कि इस देश में दिवाला और शोधन अक्षमता संहिता आने के पहले क्या स्थिति थी? कितने लॉज थे,कंपनी एक्ट था,सरफेसी एक्ट था, सीका था,बहुत कंफ्यूजन था, कान्ट्रडिक्शंस थे कि अगर कोई कंपनी इन्सॉल्वेंसी में चली गई तो उसमें बहुत ज्यादा समय लगता था। जबकि इंग्लैंड में एक साल में इन्सॉल्वेंसी का कोई रिजोल्यूशन प्लान बन जाता था, यू.एस.में 1.5 साल में बन जाता था और यहाँ तक कि पाकिस्तान में भी इसमें तीन साल लगते थे। मैं तो सरकार को बधाई दूँगा कि इन्सॉल्वेंसी एंड बैंकक्रप्सी कोड लाकर, इस देश में वर्षों से एनपीए का जो बोझ हमारी सरकार को विरासत में मिला, आज उस एनपीए को या उस बैंकिंग सिस्टम को सुधारने की दिशा में एक बहुत बड़ा कारगर कदम हुआ है। मैं कहना चाहता हूँ, मैं अपनी बात नहीं कह रहा हूँ,मैं वर्ष  2018के इकोनॉमिक सर्वे की बात करना चाहता हूँ। The Economic Survey 2018 has said that the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code is helping to improve the health of the banking sector.  It says that the IBC mechanism is being used actively to resolve the NPA problem of the banking sector. पूरे देश के लोग, चाहे सत्ता पक्ष में हों या प्रतिपक्ष में हों, हम हमेशा बैंक के बढ़ते हुए नॉन पर्फार्मिंग ऐसेट्स (एनपीए)की बात करते थे। अगर आज इस नॉन पर्फार्मिंग ऐसेट्स (एनपीए) को हल करने की दिशा में हमने एक कदम बढ़ाया है तो मुझे लगता है कि आज जो यह सेकेंड अमेंडमेंट आया है, यह बहुत क्लियर है और clarity of thought है।The amendments to the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code are intended to provide relief to home buyers by recognising their status as a financial creditors, thus, giving them due representation in the Committee of Creditors(CoC) and making them an integral part of the decision making process. जिसकी चिंता सब कर रहे हैं, उसको हमने इस अमेंडमेंट से डिसिजन मेकिंग प्रोसेस बनाया है। उनको हमने फाइनेन्शियल क्रेडिटर्स के रूप में दिया है। इस कोड के आने से पहले क्या स्थिति थी? गवर्नमेंट के ड्यूज, बैंक के ड्यूज, लेबर्स के ड्यूज और अनसिक्योर्ड क्रेडिटर्स का तो पैसा मिलता ही नहीं था। आज कम से कम यह अमेंडमेंट आया है, निश्चित तौर से आज जब हम इसे पास करेंगे तो इसका असर केवल इस पार्लियामेंट के अंदर तक नहीं होगा। चाहे एनसीआर हो, नोएडा हो,गाजियाबाद हो,लखनऊ हो, पटना, कानपुर,मुंबई, अहदाबाद,सूरत आदि देश के तमाम शहरों में जिन लोगों ने अपनी गाढ़ी कमाई के पैसे लगाकर,लोन लेकर मकान खरीदा, फ्लैट बुक किया था, उनको मकान नहीं मिला, फ्लैट नहीं मिला, लेकिन उनके वेतन से बैंक की ई.एम.आई. कट रही है। उनके ऊपर लगातार ब्याज की देनदारी बढ़ रही है, लेकिन मकान फिर भी नहीं मिला है, उनका पैसा भी वापस नहीं हुआ है। आज का दिन उनके लिए ऐतिहासिक दिन होगा, जब हिन्दुस्तान के उन गरीबों को,उन मध्यम वर्ग के लोगों को, उन होम बायर्स को एक लीगल स्टेट्स हम इस अमेंडमेंट से दे रहे हैं। यह कोई साधारण अमेंडमेंट नहीं है, बल्कि यह बड़ा महत्वपूर्ण अमेंडमेंट है। इसकी भी आलोचना की जा रही है। प्रेमचन्द्रन जी कह रहे हैं कि हम वर्ष  2016 से दो अमेंडमेंट लेकर आए हैं। हम दोनों अमेंडमेंट जनहित में लाए हैं। आप एक तरफ इन्डोर्स भी कर रहे हैं कि हम ठीक अमेंडमेंट लेकर आए हैं और दूसरी तरफ कन्ट्राडिक्शन कर रहे हैं। आपने कहा भी है कि चाहे होम बायर्स के लिए हो, उनकी रक्षा होगी, चाहे एम.एस.एम.ई. हो,यह उसके हित में होगा। The promoters of MSME can bid for their own unit. जो मीडियम एंड स्मॉल इंडस्ट्रीज की बात कर रहे हैं, वह हो सकता है। जो दो साल का प्रॉजिक्यूशन हो चुका है, वे बिडर्स नहीं बन सकते, वे बिडिंग में पार्टिसिपेट नहीं कर सकते, जो पहले प्रोमोटर्स थे, वे नहीं कर सकते थे, उनको प्रॉफिट किया है। जो भी हमने कदम उठाए हैं, वे हमने इसी इंटरेस्ट में उठाए हैं। आज दुनिया में आप देखिए। उन्होंने कहा कि यह किसी को फायदा पहुँचाने के लिए किया जा रहा है। अगर सी.ओ.सी. में 90 परसेंट लोग तैयार होंगे कि हम उस रिजोल्यूशन को वापस करने की अनुमति दे रहे हैं तो वह निश्चित तौर से कोई कबाड़ के भाव जाए, उसके बजाए अगर वापस होकर के उसकी कीमत मिल जाए और लोगों के हक-हुकूक की हिफाजत हो सके तो मुझे लगता है कि उनको अपना अमेंडमेंट वापस ले लेना चाहिए। उन्हें इस बात को समझना चाहिए कि आज यह बिल कितना जनहित में लाया गया है। उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, मैं समझता हूं कि मैंने अपनी बात को केवल उन अमेंडमेंट्स तक ही सीमित रखा है। “The voting threshold for routine decisions taken by the Committee of Creditors has been reduced from 75 per cent to 51 per cent.” आज पीयूष गोयल जी ने, हमारे वित्त मंत्री जी ने जिस बात का उल्लेख किया है, आज अगर यूरोप में, यू.एस. में, सभी जगहों पर रूटीन वर्क के लिए 51 प्रतिशत की वोटिंग पर सी.ओ.सी. कोई निर्णय ले सकता है तो हमारे यहां 75प्रतिशत पर क्यों नहीं ले सकता है? यह स्वाभाविक है कि फिर हम कोई फाइनैंशिएल रीस्ट्रक्चरिंग करना चाहें, लिक्वीडेशन में जाना चाहें तो इसमें जो स्टेकहोल्डर्स हैं, जो क्रेडिटर्स हैं, उन्हें कितने वर्षों तक यह सब करना पड़ेगा? आज जब एक तरफ हम उन्हें लीगल आईडैंटिटी दे रहे हैं तो इस बिल के माध्यम से उन्हें सिक्योरिटी देने का काम भी है। “For certain key decisions, this threshold has been reduced to 66 per cent.” मुझे लगता है कि यह एक प्रगतिशील कदम है। इस संशोधन का तो सर्वसम्मति से स्वागत करना चाहिए। इसके बावजूद, इस सदन में हम चाहे सत्ता पक्ष से हों, चाहे प्रतिपक्ष से हों, लगातार इन मुद्दों को हम उठाते रहे हैं। आप देखिए कि जो वाटरफॉल मैकेनिज्म था, वह पहले क्या था? वह पहले था - The Insolvency resolution process cost and the liquidation cost paid in full. इसका मतलब कि जो प्रोसेस होगा, पहले उनकी तनख्वाह दी जाएगी, उन्हें पैसे दिए जाएंगे। फिर उसके बाद था - “(i) Workmen’s dues for the period of twenty-four months preceding the liquidation commencement date; and (ii) Debts owed to a secured creditor in the event such secured creditor has relinquished security in the manner set out in Section 52 . (c) Wages and any unpaid dues owed to employees other than workmen for the period of 12 months preceding the liquidation commencement date. (d) Financial debts owed to unsecured creditors.” 

  

इसका मतलब सबसे अन्त में, जो अपने जीवन में अपने मेहनत की गाढ़ी कमाई के पैसे से, चाहे वे होम बायर्स हों या जो लोग हों, आज मैं समझता हूं कि जब यह सदन इस अमेंडमेंट बिल को पास करेगा तो निश्चित तौर पर देश के उन लाखों लोगों को, चाहे वे नोएडा, ग्रेटर नोएडा या दिल्ली में प्रदर्शन कर रहे थे और जिन्हें लगता था कि उनके सामने अंधकार है तो यह बिल केवल पास नहीं होगा, बल्कि उनकी जिन्दगी में इसके माध्यम से एक उजाला आएगा, एक नया सबेरा आएगा। इसी के साथ मैं इस बिल का समर्थन करता हूं। श्री दुष्यंत चौटाला ( हिसार ): उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, मैं आपको धन्यवाद देता हूं कि आपने मुझे इंसॉल्वेंसी एण्ड बैंकरप्टसी कोड (सेकन्ड अमेंडमेंट) बिल, 2018 पर बोलने का मौका दिया। महोदय, मैं सरकार के इस कदम का स्वागत करता हूं कि इसे एक एक्ट के तौर पर सरकार लेकर आई है। पर, मैं माननीय मंत्री जी से पूछना चाहूंगा कि इसकी क्या जरूरत पड़ी थी कि इसके लिए एक ऑर्डिनैंस लाना पड़ा? जब इस बिल को इस सदन ने पास किया था, तब सरकार ने एक उम्मीद बंधाई थी कि इससे कहीं-न-कहीं व्यवसाय को फायदा मिलेगा और इस कोड के माध्यम से उसका बेनिफिट मिलेगा। माननीय मंत्री जी कहते हैं कि इस बिल के माध्यम से, जो फाइनैंशिएल क्रेडिटर्स हैं, वे एन.सी.एल.टी. में जाकर अपील कर सकते हैं। माननीय मंत्री जी का ही राज्य सभा के अन्दर एक जवाब है, जिसमें इन्होंने लिखा हुआ है कि 9,073 केसेज एन.सी.एल.टी. के अन्दर दिनांक 31.01.2018 को पेंडिंग हैं। जिसमें 1,630 केसेज मर्जर के हैं, 2,511 इंसॉल्वेंसी के हैं और 4,932 केसेज कम्पनीज एक्ट के हैं। जब आप रियल एस्टेट को भी इस बिल के माध्यम से एन.सी.एल.टी. के अंदर डालने का काम करेंगे तो क्या आप इस सदन को बता सकते हैं कि और कितने हजार केसेज को हम एन.सी.एल.टी. के अंडर डालेंगे? जब हम एन.सी.एल.टी. की बात करते हैं तो हमारे एन.सी.एल.टी. में मात्र 22 मेम्बर्स हैं और उसके मात्र दस स्पेशल कोर्ट्स हैं। जब हम दस स्पेशल कोर्ट्स की बात करते हैं और हजारों की संख्या में और ज्यादा नए फाइनैंशिएल क्रेडिटर्स अपनी अपील को ट्रिब्यूनल में लेकर जाएंगे तो आप यह मानकर चलिए कि आज कोर्ट से तो शायद यह आसरा था कि दो सालों में या तीन सालों में इंसाफ मिल जाएगा। अभी जगदम्बिका जी बड़ी अच्छी तरह से बोल रहे थे कि आपने उसे आस दिखा दी जो आदमी आज ई.एम.आई. से बैंकरप्ट होता है। जब ये मामले एन.सी.एल.टी. में चले जाएंगे तो पांच-पांच, सात-सात सालों तक आप उस प्रॉपर्टी के मालिक को उसका हक दिलाने में कामयाब नहीं हो सकेंगे। आप उन्हें विश्वास दिलाएं कि आप इनकी और पीठ बनाने का काम करेंगे। आप दस से लेकर और 100 कोर्ट्स बनाएंगे और अभी 22 मेम्बर्स से बढ़ाकर आप 222 मेम्बर्स बनाने का काम करेंगे, नहीं तो आपके इस बिल के पारित होने के बाद आप यह मानकर चलें कि इससे आप फाइनैंशिएल क्रेडिटर्स को जो फायदा पहुंचाना चाह रहे हैं, वह उसे नहीं मिलेगा, पर उस उद्योग के मालिक को, उस कम्पनी के मालिक को इसका फायदा आप जरूर पहुंचाने का काम करेंगे। महोदय, मेरी एक क्लैरिफिकेशन थी कि आपने इस बिल के माध्यम से फाइनैंशिएल क्रेडिटर्स की डेफिनिशन के अन्दर, एक प्रॉपर्टी का मालिक, जो आज ई.एम.आई. भरता है, उसे डालने का काम किया है। अगर मैं एक घर लेना चाहता हूं तो क्या आप मुझे अधिकार दिलाएंगे और क्या आप मुझे ‘क्रेडिटर्स’ में डालेंगे? अगर मेरी प्रॉपर्टी कंप्लीट नहीं हुई, तो क्या मुझे उसका अधिकार मिलेगा?यदि मैं अपना पैसा रिफंड चाहता हूं, तो क्या मुझे उसका अधिकार मिलेगा? मैं आपसे आग्रह करूंगा कि अगर आप फाइनेंशियल क्रेडिटर्स के अंदर लोगों को डालना चाहते हैं,तो आप उन्हीं लोगों को डालिए,जो लोग अपना पैसा लेना चाहते हैं, न कि उन लोगों को जो अपना घर लेना चाहते हैं। आज लोगों ने नोएडा, गुड़गांव में एक-एक दशक पहले से अपना पैसा दे रखा है, लेकिन आज तक वहां बिल्डिंग की शुरुआत नहीं हुई है। अगर आपने उनको फाइनेंशियल क्रेडिटर्स में डाल दिया, तो उनका ब्याज भी गया और उनकी आय जाने का भी काम होगा। उपाध्यक्ष महोदय,आज आप द्वारका एक्सप्रेस-वे के साथ वाले एरिये में देखिए। गुड़गांव में हजारों-लाखों की तादाद में फ्लैट्स बन रहे हैं। अधिकतम कंपनीज़ ऐसी हैं,जिन्होंने आम जनता का पैसा ज़रूर लेने का काम किया,लेकिन अब तक उन्हें पोज़ेशन तो बहुत दूर की बात है, वहां फ्लैट्स बनाने का काम नहीं किया। मैं मंत्री जी का धन्यवाद करूंगा,जिन्होंने 75 परसेंट सी.ओ.सी. को कम कर के 66 परसेंट किया है। आज इसकी ज़रूरत थी। अगर हम यह कदम उठा रहे थे, तो हम 66 परसेंट पर आकर क्यों रुके? आप उसको 51 परसेंट पर ले आते। उस कंपनी के जो छोटे शेयरहोल्डर्स हैं, उनका अधिकार भी तो 51 परसेंट पर होना चाहिए। कहीं न कहीं आपके इस फैसले से वह छोटा शेयरहोल्डर इस मुहीम के अंदर दबेगा। इसलिए मेरा आप से यही आग्रह और अपील है कि सरकार ने जरूर कदम उठाया है, कुछ जल्दबाजी के अंदर कुछ चुनिंदा लोगों को फायदा पहुँचाने के लिए काम हुआ है। मैं खासतौर पर टर्म करूँगा कि उन लोगों को फायदा पहुँचाने के लिए, जो आज रियल इस्टेट में लोगों के पैसे हड़प कर बैठे हैं और बिल्डिंग नहीं बना पाए हैं।…(व्यवधान) इस तरफ या उस तरफ की बात नहीं है। मेरे साथी कह रहे हैं कि उस तरफ बोलिए। …(व्यवधान) आज हरियाणा तथा उत्तर प्रदेश में भारतीय जनता पार्टी की सरकार है। फ्लैटों के मामले में अगर सबसे ज्यादा पैसे लूटे गये हैं तो… *   शासित राज्य में लूटे गये हैं। अगर आप लोग अधिकार दिलाना चाहते हैं तो आप इस सदन में विश्वास दिलाइए कि गुडगांव व नोएडा के लोगों को उनके फ्लैट का पैसा दिलाने का काम करेंगे। श्री राजेश रंजन ( मधेपुरा ): माननीय उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, कानून बार-बार बने, यह अच्छी बात है। जब भी कोई अच्छा या खराब कानून बनता है, तो उसमें कुछ-न-कुछ नयी व्यवस्था लायी जाती है। लेकिन कानून को चलाने वाले लोग कितने अच्छे होंगे,आप इस पर कभी विचार करते ही नहीं हैं। नोटबंदी के समय जो हालात पैदा हुए, बैंकों के कर्मचारी करोड़पति हो गए। आपने उसकी चर्चा नहीं की। मैं आज राजनीति की बातें छोड़कर यह कहना चाहता हूँ कि बड़ी-बड़ी कम्पनियाँ घाटा दिखाकर कम रुपये में अपना सामान बेच देती हैं, उनके बारे में आपने कुछ नहीं कहा है। बड़े-बड़े उद्योगों और पूँजीपतियों के लिए तो सारे रास्ते खुल जाते हैं, लेकिन लघु और कुटीर इंडस्ट्रीज के लिए लिये गये ऋण के कारण जो हालात पैदा होते हैं,उनके कारण वे दिवालिया हो जाते हैं और ऋण कभी नहीं लौटा पाते हैं। आपने ऐसी स्मॉल और कुटीर इंडस्ट्रीज के लिए कुछ नहीं कहा है। सबसे ज्यादा कालाधन बैंकों के सिस्टम से जेनरेट होता है। इसमें रीयल इस्टेट,शराब माफिया,बालू माफिया,खनन माफिया आदि भी शामिल हैं। बिहार में एक बड़ी राजनीतिक पार्टी या एक बड़ा परिवार है या कई राजनीतिक लोग हैं, जो बड़ी-बड़ी कम्पनियों में शेयर-धारक बन चुके हैं। जिन लोगों के पास कुछ भी पैसे नहीं थे,आज वे अरबपति और खरबपति हैं। वे कई कम्पनियों के शेयर-धारक हो चुके हैं। उन लोगों से पैसे को कैसे वापस लाया जाए, उनके पैसे कहाँ जा रहे हैं,बैंक्स उनको पैसे कैसे दे देती हैं, आदि बातों पर आप ध्यान नहीं देते हैं। कम पैसे देकर अधिक पैसे बैंकों से लिये जाते हैं। बैंकों में बीस लाख रुपये जमा करके बीस करोड़ रुपये के ऋण ले लिये जाते हैं। बड़े-बड़े उद्योगपति,पूँजीपति, पॉलिटिशियन,माफिया लोग एक तरह की चोरी करते हैं और इसमें बैंक उनको सपोर्ट करते हैं। यह कैसे संभव है? आम लोगों से बैंक प्रणाली चलती है। मैं छात्रों के बारे में कहना चाहूँगा। जो छात्र बैंक से ऋण लेता है, उसे नौकरी मिलती नहीं है और आप उससे ऋण वसूलने के लिए तैयार हो जाते हैं। क्या आप स्टूडेंट ऋण की वसूली उसके रोजगार या उसकी नौकरी के प्रावधान से करेंगे? जो युवा हिंदुस्तान में बेरोजगार है, जिसको बीए, एमए करके नौकरी नहीं मिलती है, बैंक उनको ऋण देती है। 20 या 30 लाख रुपये प्रावधान करने के बाद युवाओं के रोजगार की गारंटी के साथ जो उनकी इनकम होगी, उस इनकम के साथ वह बैंक को लौटायें। क्या अन्य देशों की तरह हम इसकी व्यवस्था करेंगे? चौथा, जो गांव में सूदखोर हैं, इनके चलते किसानों की आत्महत्या होती है। साइकलोन आता है, बाढ़ आती है, तूफान आता है, छोटे व्यापारी प्रकृति के कारण या वैश्विक  बाजार में जब घाटा होता है, उसके कारण मर जाते हैं। उनकी स्थिति बहत बुरी हो जाती है। उद्योगपति, पूंजीपति सभी जगह से संरक्षित हो जाते हैं। जो हिंदुस्तान का छोटा व्यापारी है, भौगोलिक और सामाजिक कारणों से, राजनैतिक उथल-पुथल के कारण या कई वैश्विक बाजारों के कारण जो हालात पैदा होते हैं, उसके लिए आपने कोई प्रावधान नहीं दिया। किसानों के लिए आपने कोई दरवाजा नहीं खोला। जो दुनिया की सबसे बड़ी रीढ़ है, उस पर आपने कोई चर्चा नहीं की है। बैंकों की वजह से किसान आत्महत्या के लिए मजबूर हैं। छात्रों पर भी आपने कुछ नहीं कहा। आप बार-बार इस बात को कहते हैं। पाकिस्तान में प्रधान मंत्री को सजा हो जाती है, वह जेल चला जाता है। हिंदुस्तान में क्या कभी बड़े उद्योगपति, पूंजीपति, नेता या माफियाओं को किसी बैंक के ऋण में जेल जाते देखा है, कितने लोगों को सजा हुई? कानून का इंप्लीमेंट बहुत ही महत्वपूर्ण है। रियल एस्टेट पर बहुत बड़ा शिकंजा कसने की आवश्यकता है। बैंक प्रणाली 120 करोड़ मिडल क्लास से चलती है। 120 करोड़ का जो मिडल क्लास है, वह युवा है, छात्र है, किसान है। बैंक ऋण की वसूली को आप थोड़ा एक रास्ता दीजिए। किसानों को ऋण की सुविधा हो। छात्रों को ऋण के लिए चक्कर काटने पड़ते हैं। युवाओं को ऋण नहीं मिलता है। उन्हें बीटेक, एमटेक करने के बाद नौकरी नहीं मिलती है। उनकी सम्पत्ति पर बैंक कब्जा कर लेता है। मेरा आग्रह है कि आम लोगों के लिए अध्यादेश लाना ही एक बड़े राज को दर्शाता है। अध्यादेश जैसी चीज को 130 करोड़ लोगों से जुड़ा होना चाहिए। पूंजीपति और उद्योपति जैसे लोगों को बेनेफिट देने के लिए अध्यादेश को मशीनरी नहीं बनाया जा सकता है। अध्यादेश को मशीन बनाइए, हिंदुस्तान के एससी, एसटी, दलित के लिए, जिसे गोयल बेंच ने खत्म कर दिया, उसको अध्यादेश बनाइए। यह मेरा आग्रह है। मेरा इतना आग्रह है कि उद्योगपतियों, पूंजीपतियों के लिए कानून न बने। कानून उनका राहगीर न बन जाए। सूदखोरों के लिए कानून न बने। कानून आम आदमी के लिए हो। मैं ऐसा चाहता हूं, धन्यवाद। श्री शरद त्रिपाठी ( संत कबीर नगर ): उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, आपने मुझे इस महत्वपूर्ण बिल पर बोलने का अवसर प्रदान किया, इसके लिए मैं आपको धन्यवाद देता हूं। आदरणीय नरेन्द्र भाई मोदी जी के नेतृत्व में एनडीए की सरकार बनी। यह बिल लाने की आवश्यकता क्यों पड़ी, यह भी एक बहुत बड़ा प्रश्न है। क्यों ऐसे कड़े प्रावधान की आवश्यकता पड़ी, जबकि इसके पहले सरफेसी, बीआईएफआर, डीआरटी जैसे तमाम ऐसे तकनीकी संस्थान थे, जिनके माध्यम से ऋण माफी के लिए लोग आवेदन करते थे। उसमें उलझाकर बैंक लोन बढ़ता चला जाता था और एनपीए बढ़ता जाता था। हमारी सरकार को लगभग 9 लाख करोड़ रुपये एनपीए विरासत में मिला। 8 लाख 25 हजार करोड़ रुपये से 9 लाख करोड़ रुपये तक एनपीए विरासत में मिला। जब समीक्षा हुई, तो समीक्षा के दौरान यह मिला कि वर्ष  2008 से लेकर वर्ष  2014तक ऐसी कंपनियों को ऋण दिया गया, जिन कंपनियों का धरातल पर कोई विशेष अस्तित्व नहीं था। ये कंपनियां केवल इसलिए खोली गईं थीं कि उसमें कुछ बिचौलिए उन कंपनियों को ऋण दिलाने के कारण कुछ बीच की धनराशि लेते थे। यह पहले से तय होता था। मैं छत्तीसगढ़ का उदाहरण देना चाहूंगा। छत्तीसगढ़ में एक साथ पॉवर प्रोजेक्ट के लगभग 14 ऐसे संयंत्र लगाए गए, जिनको चलाने के लिए जो उनकी लिक्विडिटी थी, जिसको पैसा लगाकर वे चलाते, वह पैसा और वे कौन से लोग थे, इसको सारा देश जानता है। मैं उनका नाम नहीं लेना चाहता नहीं तो उस पर भी एक आपत्ति खड़ी होगी। सारा देश जानता है कि उन कंपनियों को वास्तव में चलाने और काम करने के लिए बहुत बड़ी धनराशि निकाली थी, जिसे कंपनी चलाते वक्त आवश्यकता थी। उस धनराशि में से कुछ लेकर उनको लोन दिलाए। उसके बाद जब कंपनी चलाने की बात आई, आज ये कंपनियां फिर से ऋण के लिए दौड़ रही हैं कि हमको कंपनी चलाने के लिए फिर से फाइनेंस की आवश्यकता है। उनके संयंत्र बन कर पड़े हुए हैं। हमारी प्रदेश सरकार ने इन्फ्रास्ट्रक्चर के लिए उसमें अपना पूरा योगदान दिया। यह सबसे बड़ी खुशी की बात है कि जब इस बिल की आहट हुई, आदरणीय नरेन्द्र भाई मोदी जी के नेतृत्व में यह सरकार चल रही है और आदरणीय पीयूष गोयल जी वित्त मंत्री के रूप में इस सदन में बैठे हुए हैं, पहले कंपनियों के पीछे बैंक दौड़ते थे लेकिन इस बिल के आहट मात्र से ही तीन सौ कंपनियां बैंकों के पीछे दौड़ रही हैं कि हमारा ओटीएस कर दीजिए, वन टाइम सैटलमेंट कर दीजिए। हमारे विद्वान वित्त मंत्री जी यहां बैठे हुए हैं। इन्होंने इसमें नये सीएलटीटी, एनसीएलटी के जरिए प्रावधान किए हैं। उसको एक साथ टाइम बाउंड किया है। इसमें 180 दिन का बाउन्डेंशन है। एनसीएलटी में अब तक तीन सौ आवेदन आ चुके हैं। जिन कंपनियों की तलाश बैंक करती थी कि इनसे ऋण कैसे वसूला जाए, अब तक तीन सौ ऐसे आवेदन आ गए जिसका निस्तारण बहुत ही पारदर्शी तरीके से हो रहा है। कुछ लोग उद्योगपतियों और उसकी बात कर रहे हैं। बहुत ही पारदर्शी तरीके से छह-सात कंपनियों का एनसीएलटी कोड बिल के तहत 180 दिनों के अंदर निपटारा होना है। उसके तहत इस आधार पर अब तक सात कंपनियों का निपटारा हमारी सरकार ने किया, जिसमें एक कंपनी को दूसरी कंपनी ने खरीद कर साबित कर दिया कि हम इस कंपनी को चला सकते हैं। अगर वे नहीं चला सकते थे, उसमें रोजगार पाए हुए लोग थे, उन लोगों का रोजगार बचाने का काम हमारी सरकार ने किया। ऐसी कंपनियां जो हाउसिंग का बहुत बड़ा काम कर रही थीं, अभी कुछ लोग लाभ पहुंचाने की बात कर रहे हैं, हमारी सरकार ने ईमानदारी से उस कंपनी का पूरा ऐसेटटस जब्त करके लोन की भरपाई की है। आज मुद्रा योजना प्रधान मंत्री जी द्वारा चलाई जा रही है, उसको चलाने में जो दिक्कतें आ रही हैं। युवाओं की बात की जा रही है, आज इस देश के बैंकों में फिर से पैसे की वापसी की शुभ दौड़ शुरू हुई है। आज युवा समाज को विश्व का सबसे बड़ा युवाओं का देश कहा जाता है। उनमें स्वयं रोजगार सृजन की क्षमता आई है। मैं इस बिल का समर्थन करते हुए माननीय वित्त मंत्री जी को धन्यवाद देता हूं। SHRI ADHIR RANJAN CHOWDHURY ( BAHARAMPUR ): Sir, thank you. I rise to oppose the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Bill. In a span of one-and-a-half years the Bill has undergone two Ordinances and two Amendments. The Ordinance-savvy Government has been frequently resorting to Ordinance much to the detriment of Parliamentary democracy in our country. I would simply refer to two issues. Firstly, the first list of 12 large corporate defaulters -- who have been recognised as the ‘dirty dozen’ -- owe banks around Rs. 2.7 trillion. Out of this, only Rs. 1.28 trillions is estimated to be recoverable, which means on an average the country’s banks are taking a haircut of 52 per cent on the first list of over-indebted corporates. If you go in such a pace for haircut, then a day may come when the country will be turned into a bald-headed country in terms of economy. So, you should be very careful of the haircut proposition. Secondly, the Finance Minister’s decision to have a new fast-track debt resolution programme for public sector banks with the help of the Asset Management Company may undermine the IBC process, brought with much fanfare, to resolve NPAs. I am simply referring to the rationale for classifying allottees as financial creditors, which could be questioned. It could be argued that the money raised from allottees under a real-estate project is an advance payment for a future asset (the property allotted to them). It is not an explicit loan given to the developer against receipt of interest or similar consideration for the time, value of money and, therefore, may not qualify as financial debt. 18 00 hrs 

The Minister may elaborate on this issue. During a corporate insolvency resolution process, a Committee consisting of all financial creditors is constituted to take decision regarding the resolution process. This Committee may choose to resolve the debtor company and liquidate the debtor assets to repay loans. While the Ordinance classifies allottees as financial creditors, it does not specify whether they would be treated as secured or unsecured creditors. Therefore, their position in the order of priority is not clear. May I ask a distinct question to the Minister? After the IBCin existence, Is the performance of the IBC administration impressive to the hon. Minister? The country has been infected with the syndrome of suit, boot, loot, scoot; have a life in comfort by managing a passport. … (Interruptions) THE MINISTER OF CHEMICALS AND FERTILIZERS AND MINISTER OF PARLIAMENTARY AFFAIRS (SHRI ANANTHKUMAR): Hon. Deputy Speaker, Sir, I request you to extend the time of the House till the reply and passing of the Bill. SHRI K.C. VENUGOPAL ( ALAPPUZHA ): Yesterday, we cooperated with the Government. We sat till 7.30 p.m. The Minister can reply to the debate, followed by voting, tomorrow. SHRI ANANTHKUMAR : Sir, we will continue till the reply of the Minister and the Bill is passed. I think, the reply would be over short. SHRI PIYUSH GOYAL : I would give a short reply. SHRI ANANTHKUMAR : The Minister has assured that he would make a short soon. HON. DEPUTY SPEAKER: Already the hon. Minister has said that he would give a short reply. SHRI K.C. VENUGOPAL : No, you should fix the time, otherwise, reply would take two hours. SHRI MALLIKARJUN KHARGE ( GULBARGA ): They have got brute majority. That is why always Shri Dubey ji says that sense of the House should be taken. When you don’t have sense, why should you argue? … (Interruptions) HON. DEPUTY SPEAKER: `Sense of the House’ means unanimously we would resolve the issue. … (Interruptions) SHRI ANANTHKUMAR : For 50 years,  they had the brute majority. They should understand that. … (Interruptions) HON. DEPUTY SPEAKER:  We are extending the time of the House till the Minister’s reply and passing of the Bill. Now, the Finance Minister. SHRI PIYUSH GOYAL : Hon. Deputy Speaker, Sir, I must thank the 20 hon. Members of Parliament who have very actively participated in this debate. They had expressed very enlightened views; they had brought to the fore various facets of the Bill. This gives all of us confidence in the maturity of democracy and the very high quality of debate that this House is repeatedly accustomed to. कई माननीय सांसदों ने विषय उठाया कि इस ऑर्डिनेंस को लाने की जरूरत क्या थी। जब भी कोई चीज हमारे समक्ष आए, जब भी कोई सुधार की संभावना हो, मैं समझता हूं कि जो सरकार तुरंत रिस्पांस करे, वह अच्छी सरकार मानी जाती है। जनता चाहती है कि सरकार तुरंत एक्शन लेकर लोगों की समस्याओं का समाधान करे। कई रिप्रेजेंटेशन्स अलग-अलग प्रकार से आए, सदन में भी चर्चा हुई और पहले अमेंडमेंट के समय कुछ अच्छे सुझाव आए थे। एक सुझाव माननीय प्रेमचंद्रन जी का भी था कि 75 प्रतिशत बहुत ज्यादा है, इसे कम करना चाहिए, जिससे रेजल्यूशन हो, लिक्विडेशन न हो। इन सबको देखते हुए 14सदस्यों की एक कमेटी बनाई गई। इन्सॉल्वेंसी लॉ कमेटी ने 26 मार्च, 2018 को बहुत ही अच्छे और सार्थक सुझाव सरकार को दिए। माननीय उपाध्यक्ष जी, मैं सबसे पहले मोइली जी को थोड़ा सा करैक्ट करना चाहूंगा। इस कमेटी ने नौ प्रमुख मुद्दों पर अपने सुझाव दिए और हमने नौ के नौ प्रमुख मुद्दों को पूर्ण रूप से स्वीकार किया। इसके अलावा उन्होंने एनेक्श्चर -तीन में कई सारे प्रोपोज्ड अमेंडमेंट्स दिए, जो पेज नब्बे से शुरू होते हैं। Amendments to the Regulations, Amendments to the Law, तेरह-चौदह पन्ने के रिकमेन्डेशन दिए। मुझे आप सभी को उपाध्यक्ष महोदय के माध्यम से सूचित करते हुए खुशी हो रही है कि सिर्फ दो को छोड़कर उनके सभी प्रोपोज्ड अमेंडमेंट के सुझाव को स्वीकार किया है। उनमें से एक सुझाव था कि चैप्टर-चार जिसमें फास्ट ट्रैक कॉरपोरेट इन्सोल्वेंसी रिजोल्यूशन प्रोसेस सेक्शन 55 से 58 प्रोवाइड करता है, उसको छोड़ दिया जाए। सरकार की विजडम में यह महसूस हुआ कि फास्ट ट्रैक रिजोल्यूशन जहां हो सके, वहां अच्छा है। इससे नौकरियां बचेंगी और लोगों को काम करने को मिलेगा। जितनी जल्दी रिजोल्यूशन होता है, उतनी अधिक वैल्यू मैक्सिमाइज होती है। इसलिए हमने इस सुझाव को एक्सैप्ट नहीं किया। आप सभी सरकार के निर्णय से सहमत होंगे।   एक दूसरा सुझाव था कि सेक्शन 240 (ए)  इन्सर्ट किया जाए, जिसमें केन्द्र सरकार अपने पास अधिकार रखे to exempt or vary applications of provisions of the court by way of a notification for a certain class or classes of companies including for MSMEs. हमने उसमें संशोधन किया,हमने इसको सीमित रूप में स्वीकार किया, सिर्फ एमएसएमई के लिए अपने पास अधिकार रखा, बाकी कंपनियों के लिए अपने पास अधिकार नहीं रखा। So, we tightened our own powers. कमेटी ने बहुत बड़े पॉवर के लिए सुझाव दिया था कि हम किसी भी क्लॉस ऑफ कंपनीज को एग्जेम्पट कर सकते हैं। हमने कहा कि नहीं हमें यह पॉवर केन्द्र सरकार को नहीं देना चाहिए। इन दो संशोधनों के अलावा हमने पूर्ण रूप से इस कमेटी के सभी सुझावों को एक्सैप्ट किया है। मैं समझता हूं कि मोइली साहब इससे खुश होंगे। तेज गति से इसका लाभ रिजाल्यूशन प्रोसेस में आए, इसलिए इसको आर्डिनेंस के रूप में लाया गया है। मैं समझता हूं कि रिजोल्यूशन हो, लिक्विडेशन न हो, जिसकी चर्चा माननीय किरीट सोमैया जी ने बड़े विस्तार से की है यह हमारा लक्ष्य है। हम जितना विलम्ब करते है, कंपनियों द्वारा लिक्विडेशन में जाने से जॉब लॉसेज़ होने की संभावना उतनी बढ़ सकती है। इसलिए इसको आर्डिनेंस के रूप में लाया गया to promote resolution and the interest of various stakeholders. इसी के साथ-साथ होम बायर्स का विषय भी बड़ा ज्वलंत था। कई केसेज़ एन.सी.एल.टी. में चल रहे थे। इनमें से कुछ का नाम क्या यहां भी जिक्र हुआ था। कुछ केस सुप्रीम कोर्ट तक चले गये थे। उसमें होम बायर्स को प्रोटेक्ट करना सरकार की जिम्मेदारी थी और उसको हमने निभाया है, जिसके कारण यह आर्डिनेंस लाना जरूरी था। इसी तरीके से एम.एस.एम.ईज़ को प्रोटेक्ट करना था एम.एस.एम.ई में बड़े लोगों द्वारा ज्यादा इन्‍ट्रेस्ट न लेने के कारण लघु उद्योग बंद न हो जाए, उसके लिए हमने सेक्शन 29 (ए) में एम.एस.एम.ई को एक्जेम्पशन देने का निर्णय इस कमेटी के सुझाव के तहत लिया । दूसरा, जो लोग सिक यूनिट्स को खरीदते हैं और उसको चालू रखकर उसको रिजाल्व करते हैं, उनको भी एक्जेम्पशन देना था क्योंकि 29 (ए) की स्ट्रिक्ट रिडिंग है कि अगर एक बार व्यक्ति कोई एन.पी.ए. एकाउंट को ले ले, तो वह डिबार हो जाता है। इसलिए एक क्लैरिफिकेटरी नेचर का अएमेंडमेंट लाना जरूरी था, नहीं तो बिडर्स बहुत कम हो जाते। माननीय मोइली जी ने कहा कि ज्यादा-से-ज्यादा बैंक का लोन रिकवर हो, वैल्यू मैक्सिमाइज हो, वह करने में हमें तकलीफ़ होती है। इन सब चीजों को मद्देनजर रखते हुए आर्डिनेंस लाने की आवश्यकता पड़ी। लेकिन, मैं स्पष्ट कर देना चाहता हूं कि आर्डिनेंस के सभी प्रावधान प्रॉस्पेक्टिव हैं, रेट्रोस्पेक्टिव इसमें कोई भी प्रावधान नहीं है। यह चिंता का विषय नहीं है कि किसी को लाभ देने के लिए या कोई एक कंपनी के लिए यह किया गया है। इसकी मैंने विस्तार से सूचना आप सबको पहले ही दी थी। इस कमेटी के सुझाव मार्च में आए और सी.ओ.सी. की मीटिंग अप्रैल में हुई। उसके बाद भी निर्णय सरकार का या रिजोल्यूशन प्रोफैशनल का नहीं था। उसको एन.सी.एल.टी. ने आर्डर किया कि उसके पुनर्विचार के लिए सी.ओ.सी. को दिया जाए। मैं अभी उसकी डिटेल्स पढ़ रहा था। उसमें रिज्योल्यूशन प्रोफेशनल के वकील ने बहुत फोर्सफुली अपोज किया कि इसे सीओसी में वापस जाना चाहिए। लेकिन एनसीएलटी ने अपने विवेक से यह तय किया कि चूंकि एक ही बिडर है, दूसरा पर्याय लिक्विडेशन है। अगर कंपनी लिक्विडेशन में जाती है तो आज जो पैसा मिल रहा है, उसके आधे से भी कम पैसा मिलेगा, इसलिए वह लिक्विडेशन में न जाए। लगभग 23 हजार से 25 हजार लोग, जो डायरेक्टली या इनडायरेक्टली उस कंपनी में काम करते थे, उनका रोजगार न खराब हो, उनके परिवारों का जीवन न नष्ट हो और उसके इको-सिस्टम में शायद लाखों लोग, जो टेक्सटाइल इंडस्ट्री से जुड़े थे, शायद इस कारण से एनसीएलटी ने यह डिसीजन लिया होगा। मुझे उसकी जानकारी नहीं है। यह कोर्ट का निर्णय है और मैं जूडिशियरी का सम्मान करते हुए, उसके बारे में ज्यादा कुछ नहीं कहना चाहता हूं। महताब जी और जैदेव गल्ला जी ने एक विषय उठाया, उसके बारे में मैं स्पष्ट कर दूं कि हमारा अधिक बल रिज्योल्यूशन पर है, liquidation is the last option. मैं समझता हूं कि जैसा विश्वेश्वर रेड्डी जी ने कहा, वास्तव में हरेक बिजनेसमैन बेईमान नहीं होता है और हरेक व्यक्ति जो बिजनेस में फेल हो, वह बेईमान नहीं होता है। हरेक ने जीवन में अपने बिजनेस की कोशिश की होगी, उससे लाखों लोगों को नौकरियां मिलती हैं। लघु उद्योग, बड़े उद्योग आदि सभी लोग मिलकर करोड़ों लोगों को रोजगार देते हैं, काम देते हैं, उत्पादन करते हैं, देश की जरूरतें पूरी करते हैं और देश के आर्थिक विकास में योगदान देते हैं। हो सकता है कि कोई विलफुल डिफाल्टर हो या कोई फ्रॉड केस हो, लेकिन सभी बिजनेसमेन को उस नजरिए से नहीं देखना चाहिए, अन्यथा देश के विकास, देश के आर्थिक विकास और नौकरियों का साधन बन्द हो जाएगा। मैं समझता हूं कि यह हम में से किसी की भी मंशा नहीं है। इसी प्रकार से, होम बायर्स की डेफिनिशन की बात मोइली साहब ने की। हमने बहुत स्पष्ट रूप से कहा है कि इसकी जो डेफिनिशन रेरा में है, होम बायर्स की वही डेफिनिशन इसमें भी ली जाएगी। रियल इस्टेट कंपनी की डेफिनिशन भी रेरा से ही ली गई है। दुष्यंत जी को जो गलतफहमी है कि होम बायर्स और रियल इस्टेट के सभी केसेज एनसीएलटी में जा रहे हैं, ऐसा नहीं है। होम बायर्स और रियल इस्टेट के केसेज रेरा में जा रहे हैं, जिसके लिए अलग प्रावधान है। अगर कोई कंपनी एनसीएलटी में है, जो बैंक या क्रेडिटर्स को डिफाल्ट कर चुकी है, उसमें होम बायर्स का जो पैसा है, उसको प्रोटेक्ट करने के लिए उनको फाइनेंशियल क्रेडिटर के रूप में लिया गया है। उनके प्रतिनिधि कमेटी ऑफ क्रेडिटर्स में होंगे, वोट करेंगे और इससे उनको सुरक्षित रखा जाएगा। एक सवाल उठा कि यह सिक्योर्ड है या अनसिक्योर्ड है, यह निर्णय केस टू केस हो सकता है। यहां बैठकर हम निर्णय नहीं ले सकते हैं किthey are all secured or unsecured. एनसीएलटी और रिज्योल्यूशन प्रोफेशनल इसको केस टू केस बेसिस पर तय कर सकते हैं। एक सवाल यह भी आया था कि वैल्यू को मैक्सिमाइज करेंगे या नहीं करेंगे और मोइली साहब ने ऑक्शन की बात की। मोइली साहब ने बहुत अच्छा विषय उठाया, लेकिन मैं समझता हूं कि इस कानून का मुख्य उद्देश्‍य है वैल्यू एडिशन करना। अगर कंपनी चलानी है तो कंपनी चलाने के बहुत से पहलू होते हैं, जैसे नई टेक्नोलॉजी लानी पड़ सकती है, अगर चार लोग हैं, जिन्होंने बिड किया है और उसमें एक-दो ऐसी कंपनीज हैं, जिनके पास कंपनी को बढ़ाने की क्षमता नहीं है तो उनके बजाय दूसरी कंपनी, जिसमें ऐसी क्षमता और टेक्नोलॉजी है, वह ज्यादा अच्छी होगी। ये सभी निर्णय कमेटी ऑफ क्रेडिटर्स लेती है, सरकार अथवा हम कानून के द्वारा यह निर्णय नहीं ले सकते हैं, क्योंकि इसमें क्वालिटेटिव और क्वांटिटेटिव क्राइटेरिया, दोनों को मद्देनजर रखना पड़ता है। इसलिए इसका कोई फिक्स्ड प्लान नहीं है। जैसे हमने कोयले की खदानों का ऑक्शन किया, उसमें स्पष्ट था कि एक वैल्यू के ऊपर ऑक्शन हो रहा है और जो सबसे अधिक वैल्यू देगा, उसे कोयले की खदान मिल जाएगी। हमने अपने रिश्तेदारों या अपने मित्रों या मेम्बर्स ऑफ पार्लियामेंट को कोई मुफ्त में कोयले की खदानें नहीं बांटी, ईमानदार ऑक्शन की प्रक्रिया की, लेकिन यहां पर रिज्योल्यूशन प्लान है, उसमें चेंज ऑफ टेक्नोलॉजी, प्रोडक्ट पोर्टफोलियो, मैनेजमेंट, गवर्नेंस, एक्वीजिशन या डिस्पोजल ऑफ एसेट्स, मोडिफिकेशन ऑफ कैपिटल स्ट्रक्चर आदि कई पहलू होते हैं। इसलिए इसमें सिम्पल ऑक्शन की प्रक्रिया संभव नहीं है। यह पैराडाइम शिफ्ट है जिसमें हरेक को ऑपरेशनल क्रेडिटर्स और फाइनेंशियल क्रेडिटर्स सबको सम्मिलित करके, सबकी नीड्स, रिक्वायरमेंट्स को असैस करके, कमेटी ऑफ क्रेडिटर्स उचित निर्णय लेगी। इसके लिए जो क्राइटीरिया पहले से निर्धारित होता है। अभी-अभी मैंने कहा है कि हम इसका एक रेगुलेशन भी बना देंगे कि जब एक्सप्रैशन ऑफ इंटरेस्ट्स इंवाइट किये जाते हैं, उसके पहले ही हम इवैलुएशन मैट्रिक्स भी तय करके फाइल में रखेंगे। बाद में कभी ऐसा नहीं हो कि इवैलुएशन मैट्रिक्स में भी हमारे ऊपर कोई गलत आरोप लग सकें कि इवैलुएशन मैट्रिक्स में किसी को सूट करने के लिए एडजस्टमेंट किये गये हैं। वह भी पहले से बनकर सीओसी की फाइल में होगा। इसी प्रकार से हेयर-कट्स के बारे में बहुत ही गलतफहमी है। मोइली साहब ने तो शायद गलती से कह दिया कि हमने सुनिश्चित कर दिया है कि हरेक लोन मे 66 प्रतिशत हेयर कट हो जाएगा। यह सुनकर मैं बड़ा हैरान हूं। वास्तव में यह हेयर-कट क्या है, यह हम सबको समझना चाहिए। मैं आपके माध्यम से इस सदन में बड़े दावे के साथ कहना चाहूंगा कि ये सभी केसेज जो आज देश, उसकी आर्थिक-व्यवस्था और बैंकों को बड़ा परेशान कर रहे हैं, इसमें अधिकांश और शायद 95-99 प्रतिशत तक ये सब केसेज पुराने हैं और ये वर्ष  2014 के पहले के हैं। आखिर वर्ष 2007-2008 से 2014तक ये कैसे हुआ कि जो बैंकों के लोन हैं, ये तीन गुना बढ़ गये? 18 लाख से बढ़कर 53-54 लाख हो गये। ये कैसे इतने बढ़े? इसके पीछे क्या कारण था? जो उस समय के आर्थिक-विकास की बात होती थी, क्या वह सही में आर्थिक-विकास था या सिर्फ ऐसे ही लोन दिये गये? एक माननीय सदस्य ने कहा कि कई बार ऐसे लोगों को भी लोन दिया गया जिनके पास न ज़मीन थी, न सही मायने में उन्होंने प्रोजेक्ट लगाने में इस पैसे को इस्तेमाल किया। जब मैं बिजली मंत्री था तो एक केस ऐसा आया कि 4000 करोड़ रुपये लोन दिये गये, लेकिन 600 करोड़ रुपये के ऐसैटेस भी नहीं थे। अब इन सब केसेज की जैसे कि माननीय किरीट जी ने कहा, स्टडी हो रही है और जहां-जहां जरूरत पड़ रही है, फॉरेंसिक ऑडिट हो रहा है। कई जगह एस.एफ.आई.ओ. स्टडी कर रहा है। हम अलग-अलग माध्यम से इसके ऊपर पूरी तरह से जांच-पड़ताल कर रहे हैं। समझिए, वर्ष 2007 में या 2008 में लोन 100 रुपये का दिया गया। फिर समय पर लोन पे नहीं हुआ तो 20 रुपये और लोन पुराने लोन का ब्याज भरने के लिए दिया गया। तो 120 हो गया। फिर दुबारा समय पर पे नहीं हुआ तो इसे री-स्ट्रक्चर कर दिया। 120 को 150 करके री-स्ट्र्क्चर कर दिया और कहा कि लोन अब 150 हो गया है। अब आप इसे 20 साल में देना। फिर आगे चलकर देखा कि यह भी नहीं हो पा रहा है तो सेकेंड री-स्ट्रक्चरिंग कर दिया- एस.डी.आर. या अन्य किसी नाम से री-स्ट्रक्चर कर दिया। इस तरह से 150 का 200 करके उसको री-स्ट्रक्चरिंग में डाल दिया। ऐसे करते-करते स्थिति इतनी बिगड़ गई कि जो उस समय के लोन दिये गये थे, रिजर्व बैंक ने एक अनुमान लगाया कि उसमें अब लगभग 25 प्रतिशत से ज्यादा लोन के खराब होने की संभावना रखते हैं। They are either stressed or evergreen loans or NPAs. इस सरकार ने आने के बाद जब यह देखा कि ब्याज कोई नहीं दे रहा है और सरकार ने देखा कि बैंकों को कमाई नहीं हो रही है। सिर्फ री-स्ट्रक्चरिंग और एवरग्रीनिंग करके फर्जी एकाउंट एंट्री बन रही है, ताकि सो-कॉल्ड क्लेम के लिए कि इतना पैसा बैंकों को वापस आना है। मैं समझता हूं कि बैंकों की बैलेंस शीट फर्जी रखकर भारत की साख पूरी दुनिया में खराब हो रही थी। भारत के बैंकों की विश्वसनीयता खत्म हो रही थी। ऐसी परिस्थिति में इस सरकार ने साहस किया और अगस्त 2015 से एक ऐसेट क्वॉलिटी रिव्यू करके रिजर्व बैंक ने एक-एक केस स्टडी करके जहां-जहां पर ये सब चीजें पाई गईं, उनको एन.पी.ए. घोषित कराया। एनपीए घोषित करके, उसको रिजॉल्व करने के लिए हम आई.पी.सी. का कोड लाये और उसके तहत अब एनसीएलटी में जाकर या अगर कोई सैटिल करता है तो सैटिल करने देते हैं। अभी-अभी माननीय विनायक राव जी ने ठीक कहा, इस कानून के आने के बाद 83000 करोड़ रुपये तो लोगों ने अपने आप आकर भर दिये, before admission of the cases. यह डर भी रहना चाहिए। बड़े लोन ले जाने वाले लोग कभी डरते नहीं थे। कभी उनकी इच्छा नहीं होती थी कि हमें लोन वापस देना है, एक मज़ाक होता था। छोटे लोनधारक चिंतित रहते हैं कि उन्हें लोन वापस देना है। पहले के जमाने में बड़े-बड़े उद्योगपति, बड़े-बड़े पूंजीपति निश्चित जीवन जीते थे, क्योंकि उन्हें चिंता ही नहीं थी कि कभी लोन वापस देना पड़ेगा। उनको ऐसा लगता था कि अब यह बैंक की रिस्पाँसिबिलिटी है और बैंक को यह किसी तरह रिकवर करना पड़ेगा और, लोन वापस करने की जिम्मेदारी हमारी नहीं है, हम ने उस परिस्थिति को बदला है। आज  बड़े से बड़े व्यक्ति को स्टील प्लांट, जमीन और रिफाइनरी बेचने पड़ रहे हैं, और बैंकों का लोन वापस आ रहा है। मैं समझता हूं कि लिक्विडेशन में न जाने देना, समझदारी है। लिक्विडेशन में कंपनियां कौड़ियों के दाम चली जाएंगी, नौकरियां और रोजगार जाएंगे, इसलिए आईबीसी पूरी कोशिश करता है कि हर कंपनी को कैसे चालू रखा जाए। उन्हें चालू रखने में जो ससटेनेबल डेट है, जितना ऋण के ऊपर ब्याज दे सकते हैं, उसी ब्याज पर तो लोग ऋण लेंगे। आप जो हेयर कट समझते हैं, वह आपके जमाने के दिए हुए खराब लोन और आपके जमाने में दिए हुए लोन को एवरग्रीन और रीस्ट्रक्चर करके फर्जी एंट्रीज, हम उन एंट्रीज का पर्दाफाश करके दुनिया के सामने रख रहे हैं। बैंकर्स के बारे में कहा गया कि वे रिकवर करने की कोशिश नहीं कर रहे हैं। मोइली साहब, बैंकर्स ने एक सशक्त योजना बनाई है। सभी बैंकर्स ने एक इंटर बैंक क्रेडिटर अरैंजमेंट की एक एग्रीमेंट बनाई है और सभी ने फैसला लिया है कि बैंकों के कामकाज को कैसे सुधारेंगे, बैंक्स कैसे एक दूसरे से कोऑपरेट करेंगे। पहले यह होता था कि चार बैंक का लोन खराब हो रहा है और अन्य चार बैंक्स नया लोन दे रहे हैं, अब ये सभी चीजें खत्म होंगी। सभी एक-दूसरे से बात करेंगे। मैंने पहले सशक्त की घोषणा की, मैंने कहा था कि सबसे बड़ी जो तकलीफ बैंकों में थी, वे एक-दूसरे से बात नहीं करते थे। चार बैंक्स बीमार पड़े हैं, because of somebody’s loan. दूसरे चार बैंकों के करैंट एकाउंट में पैसा आ रहा है, जा रहा है। अब वह सब खत्म होगा। बैंक्स एक-दूसरे का सहयोग करेंगे और सहयोग करके, एक बड़े आर्गेनाइज पैशन से भारत का क्रेडिट ग्रोथ होगा, भारत की इकोनॉमी का ग्रोथ होगा, अर्थव्यवस्था सुधरेगी और पूर्ण रूप से हम बैंकिंग में एक ईमानदार व्यवस्था बनाने के लिए संकल्पित हैं। मोइली साहब ने एक प्रश्न पूछा कि क्या डीनेशनलाइज करने की योजना है। मैं आपके माध्यम से सदन में स्पष्ट करना चाहता हूं कि जो पब्लिक सैक्टर बैंक्स, बैंकिंग रेग्युलेशन एक्ट के तहत आते हैं, किसी को डीनेशनलाइज करने की कोई योजना आज सरकार के सामने नहीं है। इसी प्रकार से जो काम-काज आईबीसी के तहत काम किया जा रहा है, वह बैंकों को और ज्यादा मजबूत बनाने और ज्यादा ऋण देने की काबिलियत लाने के लिए किया जा रहा है। जैदेव गल्ला और किरीट जी ने क्रॉस बॉर्डर इंसॉल्वेसी की बात की है। इस कमेटी ने उस प़र भी विचार किया, क्योंकि यह बहुत पेंचिदा विषय है। इसे और ज्यादा समझने की जरूरत है। इसमें विश्व स्तरीय अनुभव लेने की जरूरत है। उन्होंने कहा है कि वह इसकी रिकमेंडेशन बाद में देंगे। आज उन्होंने इसके लिए कोई रिकमेंडेशन नहीं दी है। जब वह रिकमेंडेशन आएगी तो हम उसे सदन के समक्ष लेकर आएंगे। विनायक राऊत जी ने आम आदमी, युवाओं और महिलाओं के लिए बात की है। मैं समझता हूं कि शरद त्रिपाठी जी ने उसका अच्छा जवाब दिया है। वास्तव में इस सरकार ने गांव और गरीब लोगों को लोन दिलाने के लिए सबसे ज्यादा काम किया है। केवल ‘मुद्रा योजना’ से 12 करोड़ से अधिक लोन्स, चार लाख करोड़ रुपये से अधिक पैसे दिए गए। आखिर ये किसको मिले, यह छोटे लोगों, युवाओं और 70 प्रतिशत मुद्रा लोन महिलाओं को मिले हैं। इस लोन से करोड़ों लोगों को रोजगार, स्वावलम्बी जीवन जीने और अपने पैरों पर खड़े होने की ताकत मिली है। इसी प्रकार से प्रधान मंत्री आवास योजना के तहत एक करोड़ घर बनाए हैं। प्रधान मंत्री आवास योजना के तहत छह लाख तक के लोन में हम साढ़े छह प्रतिशत इंटरेस्ट की छूट बीस वर्ष  तक के लोन पर देते हैं। जो मध्यम वर्गीय परिवार नौ लाख तक लोन लेते हैं, उन्हें चार प्रतिशत की छूट बीस साल के लिए देते हैं। जो मध्यम वर्गीय परिवार 12 लाख तक का लोन लेते हैं, उन्हें तीन प्रतिशत की छूट बीस वर्ष  के लिए देते हैं। यही काम एक गरीब को ताकत देता है और मध्यम वर्गीय परिवार को अपने घर का मालिक बनने का सपना साकार करता है। प्रधान मंत्री जी का पक्का इरादा है कि वर्ष 2022 तक देश में हर व्यक्ति के सिर पर उसके घर की छत हो। महोदय, मैं एक आखिरी बात कहकर अपनी बात को विराम दूंगा। पुराने जमाने में जो रेज्योलूशन होता था जैसे सरफेसी, बीआईएफआरetc, उसमें नौ प्रतिशत खर्चा होता था और चार- आठ साल लगते थे, उसके बावजूद रेज्योलूशन कभी खत्म नहीं होता था। उसके कारण किसी कम्पनी में यदि पूंजी सौ रुपये लगी है और रिजाल्व करके 70-80 रुपये मिलने की संभावना है, तो चार-आठ साल बाद दस पैसे, बीस पैसे या पच्चीस परसेंट ही पूंजी रह जाती थी। उस समय को देखें तो 25-26 परसेंट रेज्योलूशन में रिकवरी होती थी। आईबीसी के तहत अभी तक जो केस हुए हैं, उसमें एक परसेंट से कम कॉस्ट आई है और यदि एवरेज रिकवरी देखें, तो कुछ केसेज़ में तो शत- प्रतिशत रिकवरी हुई है। कुछ केसेज़ में पूरा प्रिंसिपल आया और आगे चलकर रीकॉम्पेंसेट के लिए इक्विटी हमारे पास आई, लेकिन ऑवर ऑल 55 प्रतिशत से ज्यादा रिकवरी आईबीसी केसेज़ में हुई है। मैं समझता हूं कि यह भी दर्शाता है कि कैसे आईबीसी से टाइमली एक्शन लेने से हम रिकवरी मैक्सिमाइज कर पाएंगे और आगे के लिए यदि कोई केस खराब होता है, कोई कम्पनी तकलीफ में जाती है, फास्ट एक्शन के कारण पहले बैंकों का जितना नुकसान होता था, उतना नहीं होगा। Just to make it light, अधीर रंजन जी, आप इसे व्यक्तिगत तौर पर मत लीजिएगा, आपके ऊपर कोई व्यक्तिगत टिप्पणी नहीं है, लेकिन व्यवस्था को आप देखें तो वर्ष 2007 से 2014 तक आपने हेयर कट ही नहीं बालों को भी नोच लिया था। उसमें कई लोग तो बिना बाल के रह गए, लेकिन हमने कोशिश की है कि हेयर ट्रांसप्‍लांटिंग  करके जो पुराने लोग बुरी तरह से नोच लिए गए थे, उन्हें ट्रांसप्लांट करें। इसी प्रकार से बैंकों की जो हालत थी, उसे भी हम एक प्रकार से हार्ट ट्रांसप्लांट करके उन्हें पुनर्जीवित करने के लिए आईबीसी में अमेंडमेंट लाए हैं। SHRI N.K. PREMACHANDRAN ( KOLLAM ): Thank you very much, Sir.  Even after a very detailed and structured reply by the hon. Minister the pertinent, the sole question remains unanswered, that is, what was the urgency to promulgate the Ordinance.  That was the main questions which has to be answered and it still remains unanswered. SHRI PIYUSH GOYAL : I did reply. SHRI N.K. PREMACHANDRAN : Sir, I do agree with the fact that the Insolvency Law Committee, which consists of 14 Members, has submitted a Report on 26th March, 2018.  They have given a number of recommendations and almost all the recommendations have been accepted by the Government.  Immediately after accepting all those recommendations, they have issued an Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code Ordinance on 6th June, 2018.  A very pertinent question has been raised by Mahtab ji as to what has happened during the gap between 26th March, 2018 and 6th June, 2018 or what has happened during the gap between 6th June, 2018 and 18th of this month, that is the date of commencement of the Monsoon Session of Parliament. What has happened? Can the Government explain and convince the House that these are the benefits that have occurred due to the promulgation of the Ordinance? Then, we can very well say that the promulgation of the Ordinance was of an urgent necessity. It was due to unavoidable circumstances that compelled the Government to issue the Ordinance. There we have cited the examples. If the Government is not able to satisfy and convince this august House regarding the promulgation of the Ordinance, then definitely the allegation -- which has been raised regarding the bona-fides of the Government in promulgating the Ordinance, to just help some industrial groups, especially regarding the resolution process which was pending and which has happened after 6th June, 2018 -- is correct. That is a very pertinent question and a specific allegation which was raised by all the hon. Members in this House. So, such a necessity was not shown in any of the other cases. That is the first point. The second point which I would like to state is that the hon. Minister has referred to my speech at the time of consideration and passing of this Bill. That is, the hon. Finance Minister, Shri Arun Jaitley Ji, has replied to the debate also. I had raised the point that the minority dominates over the majority’s interest. That was entirely in a different provision. I would like to clarify that. I remember my speech and have taken the records from the Parliament Library also. Even a minor default will place the company into the hands of the insolvency experts. Unless 75 per cent of the creditors agree to continue the operation of the company and 75 per cent of the creditors agree that the company should go into operation, it should be against the insolvency proceedings. Here my suggestion at that time was that 26 per cent of the creditors, even unsecured creditors, can move for insolvency resolution and thereby, go for the liquidation proceedings. It is very specific. Kindly see it. About 26 per cent of the unsecured creditors can dominate the interests of the secured creditors of 74 per cent. I have sought the amendment at the time of passing and consideration of the Bill. Here, I have moved the amendment that even 26 per cent of the unsecured creditors can dominate the interest of the 74 per cent of the secured creditors. So, the secured creditors are in a bad position and those unsecured creditors are in a beneficial position. That was the point that I had made at the time of consideration and passing of the Bill. But, here there is no amendment. At that time also, I had moved the amendment. Unfortunately, no amendment is coming. Amendment is coming in case of resolution process which has to be approved by 75 per cent of the financial creditors. Sir, the figure of 75 per cent of the financial creditors has come to 66 per cent. What is the significance of this 66 per cent? Even we can understand 51 per cent. … (Interruptions) America has done this. Now, we are all following the economic philosophy of America. But, the social and financial conditions of India is entirely different from that of the US economy and the conditions which are being prevailing there. Sir, the point is this. I have also moved some amendments regarding this issue. I am concluding.  The pertinent point is that after 6th June, 2018, the industrial resolution process has been approved and this is the subsequent action of coming to this 66 per cent. That is a point which we are highlighting. How many issues and records are there? Even the reports of Law Commission are here. How many reports of the very eminent committees are there? Why is the Government not coming forward with an Ordinance so as to ensure the proceedings at the earliest? So, thereby, we are challenging the credibility of the Government and the bona-fides of the Government regarding the promulgation of the Ordinance. That is why, since the Government is not able to convince the august House regarding the specific allegations that have been made that this is just to help some industrial houses, we once again would like say that we are opposing the Bill and I am pressing for my amendments. With these words, I conclude. Thank you very much, Sir. श्री मल्लिकार्जुन खड़गे ( गुलबर्गा ) : सर, इस बिल पर बहुत अच्छी तकरीरें हुईं और उनका जवाब भी मंत्री जी ने अपने ही स्टाइल में दिया। …(व्यवधान) मैं इस वक्त यही पूछना चाहता हूं कि हमारे डॉ. किरीट सोमैया जी ने अपने भाषण में यह कहा कि आज जो एन.पी.ए. इतना बढ़ा है, उसका कारण यू.पी.ए. सरकार है, ऐसा उन्होंने कहा। …(व्यवधान) आप मेरी बात सुनिए। …(व्यवधान) फैक्ट्स को तो आप भी इरेज़ नहीं कर सकते, हम भी नहीं कर सकते। लेकिन आपके पास रिकॉर्ड है, उस रिकॉर्ड के मुताबिक 2012, 2013 और 2014 में जो एन.पी.ए. सिर्फ 2 लाख 63 हजार रुपए था, आज वह 12 लाख करोड़ रुपये है। …(व्यवधान) यह वजह है कि आप इसके बावजूद भी अपने आप अपनी पीठ थपथपा रहे हैं कि आपने बहुत अच्छा काम किया है। मैं एक दूसरी चीज़ भी आपके नोटिस में लाना चाहता हूं। जिन 12कंपनीज़ को रिज़र्व बैंक ने यह कहा था और उनके बारे में प्रेस में भी आया था - 12 डर्टी कंपनीज़, डर्टी डज़न। उसको उन्होंने डर्टी डज़न का नाम दिया था। उस डर्टी डज़न में एक है, जिसका हमारे प्रेमचन्द्रन जी ने बार-बार नाम लिया। …(व्यवधान) मैं उन कंपनियों के बारे में पढ़ना नहीं चाहता हूं, भूषण स्टील, इलैक्ट्रॉन स्टील, अमित ऑटो, मॉन्टैक्स, लैंको, एस्सार, मैं इन सबको नहीं पढ़ता हूं। ये 12 कंपनीज़ हैं। …(व्यवधान) इन 12 कंपनियों में से एक कंपनी ऐसी है, …(व्यवधान) हमारे साथ भी है, आपके साथ भी है, किसी और के साथ भी होंगे, मुझे उसकी फिक्र नहीं है। …(व्यवधान) लेकिन इस सदन के नोटिस में मैं यह लाना चाहता हूं। मैं एक ही मिनट लूंगा। “The fact that Reliance JM Financial ARC was the sole bidder for Alok Textile Company and bid multiple times is suspicious. Initially, JMARC did not disclose the strategic partner resulting in cancellation of bid since it is in violation of Section 29A of the IBC Act.” 

  

जब बिड हो रहा था, तो उस वक्त इसे कैंसिल किया और उन्होंने इसे डिस्क्लोज़ नहीं किया। “Since the bid amount is approximately Rs.5000 crore. Of Rs.29600 crore owned by Alok Industries, lenders have to take a deep haircut.” 

  

पांच हजार करोड़ में से 29,600 रुपये उनको गए। इसमें एक कंपनी का कितना फायदा हुआ, उन्होंने यह बताया। आपने इसके बारे में रिप्लाई नहीं दिया। आपने इनसॉल्वेंसी और बैंकरप्टसी के बारे में सारी चीज़ें बोलीं, यह ठीक है, लेकिन आपने किया क्या? किस के लिए किया? “Those 270 days deadline for insolvency under IBC ended on April 14 without successful resolution.” 

  

270 दिनों में यह रेज़ोल्यूशन सक्सेसफुल होना था। यह इसकी डेडलाइन थी। लेकिन यह नहीं हुआ, क्योंकि उनके पास केवल 72 परसेंट शेयर्स थे। “On June 6, the IBC amended Ordinance was promulgated with reduction in voting percentage of 51 per cent from the earlier 75 per cent, i.e., 66 per cent for key decisions.  On June 11, the NCLT ordered re-look at this deal.” 

  

मैं पूछना चाहता हूं कि आपका जो टाइम 6 जून का था, उसमें तो इनको मेजौरिटी नहीं मिली। जितने भी लोगों को इनको सपोर्ट करना चाहिए था, उन्होंने नहीं किया। On June 20, RIL GM got the deal with 72 per cent votes in favour. उसके बाद आपने एक ऑर्डिनेंस निकाला। क्योंकि 75 परसेंट चाहिए था और इनके पास 72परसेंट थे। इसके लिए इसको 66 परसेंट पर लेकर आए। 66 परसेंट आप जो लेकर आए, वह इनके लिए लेकर आए। मुकेश अंबानी के लिए लाए या किसी और के लिए लाए? आलोक इंडस्ट्री का ऑनर कौन है, रिलायंस? मैं जानना चाहता हूं कि आप एक तरफ इस तरह से एडवोकेट कर रहे हैं कि पहले के लोगों ने जो भी काम किया, वह बेकार था और उसमें केवल करप्शन ही हुआ था। मैं पूछना चाहता हूं कि आपने 75 परसेंट से घटाकर 66 परसेंट क्यों किया? इसके पीछे कौन से अनदेखे हाथ हैं, उसके बारे में आपको बताना चाहिए? मैं दूसरी बात आपसे यह जानना चाहता हूं कि Sole bidder repeatedly bid despite rejection concealing the name of Reliance. रिलायंस का नाम उसमें नहीं आया था, मैंने नहीं लिया, लेकिन आपने, भर्तृहरि महताब जी ने लिया। यह अच्छा हुआ। Ordinance passed by BJP to reduce voting facilities. आपने एक इंडस्ट्री को सपोर्ट करने के लिए और उनके फायदे के लिए ऑर्डिनेंस निकाला। आप आज कानून ला सकते थे, लेकिन नहीं लाए? आपने इतनी जल्दबाजी में काम किया, so fast and war footing पर आपने काम किया। इस तरह से तो आप फ्लड के समय में भी काम नहीं कर रहे हैं। आपने वार फूटिंग  पर काम करके फायदा पहुंचाया है। इसलिए इनका रिप्लायी ठीक नहीं है और जो प्वाइंट हमने रेज़ किया, उनका उत्तर इनके पास नहीं है, इसलिए हम प्रोटेस्ट करके वॉकआउट करते हैं। 18 42 hrs 

At this stage Shri Mallikarjun Kharge and some other hon. Members 

left the House. श्री निशिकान्त दुबे ( गोड्डा ) : उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, मंत्री जी ने अपने क्लेरिफिकेशन में यह बताया कि यह जो कानून है यह रेट्रोस्पेक्टिव नहीं है, प्रोसपेक्टिव है। रिलायंस से उनको क्या परेशानी है, यह उनको सोचना है, लेकिन जहां तक सरकार का सवाल है और जिसको भी कानून की समझ है 66 परसेंट आलोक इंडस्ट्री के केस में लागू नहीं होगा। मैं यह बात बड़ी ही गम्भीरता से बोल सकता हूं क्योंकि यह रेट्रोस्पेक्टिव लॉ नहीं है। मंत्री जी से मेरे दो क्लेरिफिकेशंस हैं, जो मैं उनसे आपके माध्यम से जानना चाहूंगा।…( व्यवधान) SHRI TATHAGATA SATPATHY ( DHENKANAL ):  Are you authorised? श्री निशिकान्त दुबे : मैं जॉइंट कमेटी का मेम्बर था और मैंने वह कानून बनाया है और मुझे पता है कि यह कानून रेट्रोस्पेक्टिव नहीं है, यह प्रोसपेक्टिव है। आलोक इंडस्ट्री का केस पहले से चल रहा है, इसलिए उसके ऊपर यह लागू नहीं होगा। मैं जानना चाहता हूं कि सीडीआर, एसडीआर, S4A, 520 और एआरसी ये पांच चीजें ऐसी हैं जो एनपीए के लिए सबसे ज्यादा जिम्मेदार है। वर्ष  2014के पहले के जो लोन हैं, वही लोन आज की डेट में एनपीए हुए हैं। सात-आठ लाख करोड़ रुपये के एनपीए में से हमारी सरकार के समय में दिए हुए लोन में से मुश्किल से एक-दो हजार करोड़ रुपये के लोन एनपीए हुए होंगे। मेरा आपके माध्यम से माननीय मंत्री जी से प्रश्न है कि इन सारी कम्पनियों के लिए कंसल्टेंट थे, क्योंकि 20-25 बैंक्स कंसोर्शियम बनाकर लोन दे रहे थे और उसके लिए आरबीआई के रूल्स को फॉलो कर रहे थे, जिसका रेगुलेटर कांग्रेस की सरकार ने अपने आदमी को बना लिया। एसबीआई का चेयरमैन जो कम्पीटेंट नहीं था, उसको बना दिया गया। इन सभी का कंसल्टेंट एसबीआई कैप्स थे, यह सारी पॉलिसी आरबीआई की थी तो क्या इस आधार पर भारत सरकार उस वक्त के तत्कालीन आरबीआई गवर्नर और एसबीआई कैप्स के हेड के ऊपर क्या कोई इनक्वायरी बैठाएगी? दूसरा, जिसमें 29 A का सवाल है? जैसा कि 29 A में किरीट सोमैया जी कहा था। मंत्री जी आपने फॉरेन्सिक ऑडिट की जो बात की है कि इसमें बिनानी इंडस्ट्री और डालमिया इंडस्ट्री का जो बड़ा केस चल रहा है। इसमें सुप्रीम कोर्ट का ऑब्ज़र्वेशन है कि जो भी प्रत्यक्ष तौर पर नहीं पा रहे हैं, वे अप्रत्यक्ष तौर पर जा रहे हैं। यदि दोबारा कमेटी ऑफ क्रेडिटर्स, एन.सी.एल.टी. गलती कर रही है और उसमें भारत सरकार भी गलती कर रही है तो भविष्य में यह काम नहीं हो, इसके लिए भारत सरकार क्या उपाय करना चाहती है? यदि आप यह बात देश को बता देंगे तो बहुत कृपा होगी। SHRI PIYUSH GOYAL :  I have already clarified earlier on what the leader of the Congress Party has said and what Shri Premachandran has said. This Report is of March and the decision was taken in April. Ultimately, it is the NCLT order and I have a copy of the NCLT order.  In that also, it is written that the resolution professional actually made an appeal that all these decisions should not be referred to CoC and actually an order should be passed to start liquidation. So, I find that the role of RP and CoC was absolutely correct.  It is a decision of the court and I do not think that we, in the House, are competent to start questioning the decisions of the court. Similarly, on whatever the hon. Member has said, these are matters on which the court is deciding. The Government is not interfering in the NCLT process. We have left it to the courts to interpret the law and take necessary action as they deem fit. HON. DEPUTY SPEAKER:  As Shri N.K. Premachandran is not present, I shall now put the Statutory Resolution to the vote of the House. The question is : * The sign + marked above the name of a Member indicates that the Question was actually asked on the floor of the House by  that  Member. * Not recorded. * Not recorded. * Not recorded. * Not recorded. * Not recorded. * Not recorded.