By way of the present O.A., the applicant seeks the

following relief: - BRIEF FACTS: The applicant again submitted representation on 15.03.2024

to the respondents informing them about the threats which

his wife had received on 06.03.2024. In his representation,

the applicant stated that his family is permanently residing

in Mumbai and had received serious death threats from

some unknown international numbers on 6th and 8th of

March, 2024 threatening to eliminate him and his family.

This incident was immediately reported to Mumbai Police,

who has now lodged an FIR and investigating the matter.

However, the respondents without considering, their own

transfer policy dated 12.04.2018 (Annexure A-1), issued

impugned order dated 30.05.2022 (Annexure A-2)

transferring him from DGRAM Mumbai to DG TS Chennai. 6. Being aggrieved by the aforesaid impugned orders, the

applicant filed present Original Application seeking

aforementioned relief (s). 7. On admission of the OA, notices were issued to the

respondents and they have filed their counter affidavit to

which the applicant has also filed rejoinder. 6 OA No. 3677/2024 REPLY BY THE RESPONDENTS: 8. In Rebuttal to the claim of the applicant, the

respondents have filed their counter affidavit stating that the

applicant (Emp ID 3632), is an IRS (C&IT) and had first

joined Mumbai Customs Zone as Assistant Commissioner on

13.05.2010 and ever since remained posted at Mumbai

station in different formations like Customs, Central Excise,

NIA, DRI and NCB till 08.06.2022. The applicant had

remained posted only in Mumbai Station ever since his first

posting in the Department i.e. from 13.05.2010 to

08.06.2022 (12 years approx.) and had never worked outside

Mumbai station in his entire career. 9. The applicant was posted on loan basis to NCB,

Mumbai from 31.08.2020 to 31.12.2021 (earlier from DRI,

Mumbai and then from DGARM, Mumbai). On completion

of loan period, he joined back DGARM, Mumbai on

04.01.2022. Subsequently, he was posted to Directorate

General of Taxpayer Service (DGTS), Chennai vide CBIC

Office Order No. 59/2022 dated 30.05.2022. The applicant

joined DGTS, Chennai on 21.06.2022 and is posted there till

date. After posting to DGTS, Chennai, he submitted his

representations vide letter dated 06.06.2022 (Annexure-B),

31.08.2022 (Annexure-C), 12.06.2023 (Annexure-D),

12.10.2023 (Annexure-E). The applicant had also submitted

his representations during Annual General Transfer-2023 7 OA No. 3677/2024 and Annual General Transfer-2024 through online module

for transfer to Mumbai on 03.01.2023 and 10.01.2024,

respectively. However, in the Annual General Transfer Order

No. 115/2024 dated 18.07.2024, his name was not included

and his representation was disposed of accordingly. 10. The applicant had again submitted his representation

vide letter dated 06.08.2024. The said representation dated

06.08.2024 of the applicant along with copy of instant OA

were placed before the Placement Committee. The Placement

Committee noted that the transfer of applicant to DGT,

Chennai was not a routine exercise of transfer/rotational

transfer but an administrative transfer as per para 14.3 of the

Transfer/Placement Guidelines, 2018. The Committee also

noted that the applicant had submitted his representation in

past on various occasions viz. Post AGT-2022, AGT-2023 &

Post AGT-2023, but such representations were not acceded

to, as the officer was transferred on administrative ground

and had not completed 3 years at his present post. Further,

the Committee also noted that the applicant is in Agreed List

for the years 2022-23 & 2023-24 and the complaints &

investigations against him are pending. After due

deliberations, the Placement Committee did not recommend

the representation of the applicant. The Competent

Authority accorded its approval for the same. 11. The respondents submit that applicant agitated a cause 8 OA No. 3677/2024 of action before this Tribunal and this Tribunal vide order

dated 09.12.2024 had directed the him to submit his

representation to the respondents and in turn directed

respondents to consider the representation and pass a

reasoned and speaking order within two weeks. In

compliance with that order of this Hon'ble Tribunal, the

respondents have considered the representation dated

08.12.2024 and 11.12.2024 and disposed of these

representations vide speaking order dated 25.12.2024. 12. The respondents further submit that the issue of

transfer and posting has been considered time and again by

the Hon‟ble Apex Court and entire law has been settled by a

catena of decisions. The Hon'ble Supreme Court of India has

ruled that a government servant is always at the disposal of

the Government and he may be deployed in any manner

required by the appropriate authority and also the Courts or

Tribunals are not Appellate Fora to decide transfer of officers

on administrative grounds. Transfer is not only an incident

but an essential condition of service. It does not affect the

conditions of service in any manner. The employee does not

have any vested right to be posted at a particular place

definitely. 13. In support of their contentions and buttress their

stand, the respondents place reliance on the following

judgements: - OA No. 3677/2024 (ii) In case of State of M.P. and Others v. S.S.

 Kourav and Others , (1995 AIR 1056 SCC (3) 270),

 it was held: - (iii) The Allahabad High Court in the case of Dr.

 Krishna Chandra Dubey vs UOI dated

 05.09.2005 has held: - (iv) The Supreme Court of India, in the case of Mrs.

 Shilpi Bose and Others vs State Of Bihar And 10 OA No. 3677/2024 Others on 19 November, 1990 has pronounced as

 under: 14. An employee holding a transferable post cannot claim

any vested right to work at a particular place as the transfer

order does not affect any of his legal rights and the Court

cannot interfere with a transfer/posting which is made in

public interest or on administrative exigency. (i) In the matter of Gujarat Electricity Board v.

 Atmaram Sungomal Poshani , Hon'ble Supreme

 Court has observed as under: - 15. Hon'ble Supreme Court, in another recent judgment

dated 07.02.2020 pronounced in the Civil Appeal No. 1236

of 2020 in the matter of Union of India and others v/s. 11 OA No. 3677/2024 Deepak Niranjan Nath Pandit (an officer of this

Department itself), while setting aside the interim order of

the Hon'ble Hight Court staying the transfer, has held: - 16. The Hon'ble Supreme Court, in another recent judgment

dated 06.09.2021 pronounced in the Civil Appeal No. 36717

of 2017 in the matter of Namrata Verma v/s. The State

of Uttar Pradesh & Ors., has held: - 17. The learned counsel for the respondents averred that

that the submissions of the applicant that he has been

instrumental in curbing the illegal activities pertaining to

narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances is wrong and

denied. Rather the allegations are that he was himself

involved in such illegal activities. It is further submitted that

there are serious allegations against him and the department

has decided to initiate Disciplinary Proceedings against him

as advised by the CVC. 18. He further stated that the contentions of the applicant

are devoid of merit and not supported by any facts. CBIC

Office Order No. 59/2022 dated 30.05.2022 was just, fair,

transparent, and fully compliant with legal standards. All

provisions of the extant Transfer/Placement Guidelines,

2018 (Annexure-J) had been adhered to while issuing of the

transfer order under Office Order No. 59/2022 dated

30.05.2022. The applicant has been posted to DGTS,

Chennai in a fair and transparent manner, in accordance

with the extant Transfer/Placement Guidelines, 2018. 19. Furthermore, the applicant is an employee of the Central

Government holding transferable post having All India

transfer liability and cannot claim any vested right to work at

a particular place. The officer is liable to be transferred from 13 OA No. 3677/2024 one place to the other in the country anytime for

administrative convenience. It is for the administration to

analyze and fill the posts where it feels expedient in the

interest of administrative necessity. 20. He further submitted that the administration enjoys this

prerogative in public interest or in administrative exigency to

post any officer to any station or post as the administration

may deem fit. An officer of Central Govt. Services is liable to

transfer anywhere in India. While considering the request of

an officer, it has to be ensured that the postings are done in

such a manner that minimum requisite numbers of posts

across all formations are filled keeping in view the overall

interest of administrative requirements across the country. 21. The Placement Committee at Board level is the authority

for recommending transfers/ postings of Group 'A' IRS

(C&IT) officers and collectively decide the rotation of officers

among different formations/ stations. The applicant's

representation dated 06.06.2022 after issuance of Office

Order No. 59/2022 dated 30.05.2022 was placed before the

Placement Committee for consideration along with other

representations received from Group 'A' officers, and was

disposed of accordingly. It is stated that the case law cited by

the applicant in the matter is not applicable in the present

case, as facts and circumstances of the case cited are

different from the facts and circumstances of the present 14 OA No. 3677/2024 case. 22. Learned counsel further states that the Applicant has

relied on Para 7.3.1 of extant Transfer/Placement Guidelines

which provides that: "An officer, upto and including the rank

of Principal Commissioner, shall not serve in field postings

in a particular category "A" station, with or without break,

for more than 10 years....". It may be seen that words "with

or without break" have been used making it amply clear that

it does not infer a continuous tenure of 10 years at a

particular category „A‟ station. Moreover, the period of 10

years mentioned in para 7.3.1 of the Transfer / Placement

Guidelines, 2018 for „A‟ Station is the maximum tenure in a

particular „A‟ category station and no minimum tenure has

been defined. 23. To support his claim and in rebuttal to the contentions

of the learned counsel for the respondents, the applicant has

filed rejoinder reiterating the grounds earlier taken in his

Original Application and has stated that although he had

remained posted at Mumbai only for twelve years and within

the above-mentioned period of twelve years, yet period of six

years and seven months was spent on deputation in Mumbai

which needs to be excluded in terms of para 7.3 sub para

7.3.1. of the Transfer Policy of the respondents. 24. It is further stated that he is entitled to the permissible

tenure at Mumbai for ten years. In his rejoinder, the 15 OA No. 3677/2024 applicant has also cited examples of several officers who

have spent more than ten years at the same station and

allowed to continue to work in Mumbai and Delhi NCR,

whereas transferring the applicant under the pretext of

completion of maximum tenure shows biasness of the

respondents towards him. 25. The applicant also contends that his transfer is not a

routine transfer but an offshoot of an incident occurred in

the National Crime Bureau (NCB) and this indicates

malafide intention and biasness of the respondents towards

him. He also states that his transfer is punitive in nature

which is not permissible in law and shows malafide,

arbitrariness and vindictiveness of the respondents towards

him. The applicant also states that the respondents in their

reply mentioned that his transfer was ordered on

administrative ground under Clause 13.0 of the Transfer

Policy which prescribes „Transfer on Administrative Ground‟

and as per the above-mentioned clause, an officer against

whom CVC has recommended initiation of vigilance

proceedings should not normally be posted or remain posted

at the formation where the cause of vigilance proceedings

has originated. The applicant also submits that the alleged

inquiry against him was initiated when he was working on

loan basis in the NCB. It is not in the formation of applicant‟s

parent Department i.e. Ministry of Finance. He also states 16 OA No. 3677/2024 that as per his knowledge there is no CVC proceedings

pending against the applicant till now, still the respondents

have not considered him for transfer which smacks

malafides, arbitrariness and vindictiveness of respondents. 26. The applicant contends that the respondents gave one of

the reasons for transferring him that his name is in the

Agreed List for the year 2022-23 and 2023-24 and the

complaints and investigations against him are pending due

to which the representation of the applicant cannot be

acceded to. The applicant states that there is no pending CVC

proceedings against him and his integrity can also not be

questioned on the basis of impeccable record throughout his

service career. He further states that he has received more

than 9 numerical grading in his APAR throughout his career,

which shows that he is doing his job honestly and efficiently.

Copy of APAR for the year 2023-24 was also submitted

(Annexure P-1). 27. The applicant further submits that in similar

circumstances the Ahmedabad Bench of this Tribunal has

held that inclusion of name of an employee in the "Agreed

List" is fraught with the danger of being used as a weapon

against the official. Relevant para of the judgement is hereby

reproduced below for ready reference: - 28. The applicant states that the Hon‟ble Supreme Court in

the case of S. L. Abbas which is cited by the respondents,

has also held that while ordering transfer, government must

keep in mind the guidelines on the subject. In this case, the

impugned action of the respondents is arbitrary and violative

of their own transfer policy, hence liable to be set aside. It is

trite in law that State action should not be arbitrary and

violative of its own guiding principles for exercise of powers.

The existence of discretionary power does not mean reckless

or arbitrary exercise of power. Transfer policies are framed

to guide the absolute power of transfer and posting and

therefore applicant is seeking judicial review. The applicant

further relies upon the judgement of this Tribunal in the case

of R. K. Sharma Vs Union of India in OA No. 289/2013

where it has been held that if transfer is ordered in deviation

of policy, weighty reasons are required to be recorded for

such deviation. No such reasons have been recorded and

disclosed before this Tribunal and to the applicant. 29. Further, the stand of the respondents in their reply that 18 OA No. 3677/2024 the applicant himself was involved in 'illegal activities' is

completely unwarranted and a wrong statement made by the

respondents without corroborating the same with

documentary proof. These allegations are based on flimsy

ground and have been made just to tarnish the image of the

applicant which shows the resentment of the respondents.

The statement made by the respondents that the applicant

has himself involved in 'illegal activities' shows the

malevolence behavior of the respondents towards him. This

statement itself shows that the sole objective of the

respondents is to target the applicant anyhow. The only

intention of the respondents is to corner the applicant by any

means and by doing so the respondents have no hesitation in

making such unfair, unreasonable, unwarranted,

unacceptable and unfounded allegation against him. The

applicant's service record is clear of any involvement in

illegal activities as documented in the APAR. Senior officers

have consistently omitted any mention of such conduct in

their evaluations. This demonstrates a consistent pattern of

lawful behavior throughout the applicant's career. The

absence of such allegations underscores his integrity and

professional conduct. Therefore, the applicant's record

stands as a testament to his commitment to ethical practices. 30. The respondents‟ claim that the Applicant is involved in

illegal activities contradicts the applicant's performance 19 OA No. 3677/2024 record. In his APARs, senior officers describe the individual

as a valuable asset to the Department, praising his

contributions. Further his senior officer remarked that the

officer displayed initiative and alacrity worth emulating.

Such remarks are testimony that the same Department is

bent upon ruining his career and defaming him without any

material to prove their defamatory claims. On the contrary,

the allegations made by the respondents in the reply appear

to be a deliberate attempt to defame the applicant, the

intention of which is unclear. It may appear that the

allegations made by the respondents in reply are intended to

constitute a smear campaign. The applicant states that his

unblemished record speaks volumes about his commitment

to upholding professional standards. 31. Further, the applicant states that the respondents have

failed to consider the essence of the representation

submitted by him on the direction of this Tribunal that his

family has received death threat and not the applicant. The

presence of the applicant at Mumbai is required for the

safety and security of his family as he is in fear for the safety

and security of his family and kids. His family has received

death threats continuously from unscrupulous elements.

There is psychological impact on the kids minds because of

the death threats that too without the physical presence of

their father. The applicant is very much concerned about the 20 OA No. 3677/2024 safety of his family and kids as they have been facing death

threats. The kids are living in the environment of fear. He

states that the respondents have become insensitive to the

distressing and worrying situation of the applicant. The

latest death threat received by the applicant is on 08.12.2024

and 31.12.2024 (Annexure P/3) through which the well

wisher of the applicant has warned him that some

proclaimed offender has been following his family for

causing harm to them. In one of the threats received by his

wife on her mobile number, a derogatory morphed photo of

his wife was sent to her with a message that she would face

consequences for being applicant's wife. He has timely and

promptly informed all the threat to the respondents,

however, the respondents have paid no heed towards his

request, which shows the condescension behavior of the

respondents towards him. 32. The applicant also points out that despite the policy

requiring obedience by the respondents, they have retained

various officers of IRS service (to which the applicant

belongs to) in one particular station ever since from the year

2010. Officers like Sh. Vaibhav Pagare is posted at Mumbai

since 2014 in absolute violation thereof and enjoying

continuous and uninterrupted posting at Mumbai since

2014. Various other officers namely Sh. Niranjan C.C. etc.

are continuously posted at Delhi since they have joined the 21 OA No. 3677/2024 services i.e. more than 15 years. These officers are enjoying

continuous and uninterrupted posting at Delhi/Mumbai ever

since they have joined services. Some other officers namely

Ms. Neetu Singh and Shri Mahesh Chowdhary, who have

been arrested by CBI in a bribe case and disproportionate

assets and also have been suspended by the respondents, are

continuing and not even transferred ever out of Ahmedabad.

Likewise, Shri Deepak Kumar Sharma is the IRS officer who

has been continued at Mumbai since 2016 even after he has

been arrested by CBI and still have not been transferred.

Applicant states that the impugned action of respondents

cannot be selective and arbitrary. The applicant states that

he has nothing against the above-named officers, however,

their names are mentioned just to show the arbitrariness and

biasness of the respondents towards him. 33. The applicant submits that his retention at Mumbai has

become imperative due to severe security concerns of his

family. As recent threats have created an untenable situation

requiring immediate action, his retention at Mumbai is

necessary to mitigate these death threats and ensure safety of

his family. So far as the case law cited by the respondents is

concerned, the applicant submits that the same is not

applicable in the present case. On the contrary, the transfer

of the applicant is punitive in nature and the applicant has

been transferred by way of punishment and thus the transfer 22 OA No. 3677/2024 order is bad in law and liable to be quashed and set aside.

ANALYSIS: 34. The applicant is an Indian Revenue Service (IRS) Officer

of 2008 batch, currently working as Additional Commissioner,

under the Department of Revenue, Ministry of Finance

(Respondent No. 1). He was working as Zonal Director

Narcotics Control Bureau, Mumbai, Maharashtra before his

transfer to Chennai. An enquiry was initiated against the

applicant through Special Enquiry Team, the Report of

Enquiry Team was challenged by the applicant before this

Tribunal in OA No. 3722/2022 and this Tribunal vide order

dated 21.08.2023 passed an order which was upheld by the

Hon'ble High Court with the observations that there is no

infirmity with the directions issued by the Tribunal insofar as

it directed that the applicant be granted an opportunity of

personal hearing by respondents before initiating any action

against him. The applicant submitted representations

highlighting his grievance, however, the respondents vide

Order dated 18.7.2024 rejected the representation of the

applicant. 35. This Tribunal vide interim Order dated 9.12.2024 in OA

no. 3677/2024 has ordered as under: - 36. In view of interim order dated 9.12.2024 of this Tribunal

in the present OA, competent authority under respondents

passed an order dated 25.12.2024. For facility of reference,

the relevant portion of the above-mentioned order is as

under: - 37. Respondents, vide order dated 12.04.2018 have issued

Transfer/Placement Guidelines, 2018 for the Indian Revenue

Service (Customs and Central Excise) Officers under which

the applicant is governed. In Para 7.4.2. of the above

guidelines, the following is laid down on the issue of Tenure

of Directorate Posting: - 38. In para 8.0 of the above-mentioned Transfer/Placement

Guidelines, 2018 for the Indian Revenue Service (Customs

and Central Excise) Officers, the respondents have

deliberated upon the issue of exclusion of posting for

reckoning tenure and have laid down the following

guidelines: - 39. Para 10, 13 and 14 of the Transfer/Placement Guidelines,

2018 for the Indian Revenue Service (Customs and Central

Excise) Officers, under which the applicant is governed,

deliberate on the issue of posting on deputation and transfer

of administrative grounds and how the issues relating

thereto are to be dealt. For facility of reference, the above-

mentioned guidelines are mentioned as follows: - Director General/ Addl. Director General and the concerned
 Zonal Member, under whom the officer is working, have made
 recommendations in writing that the continuance of a particular
 officer at a particular post/station/Region is not in public
 interest." 40. The contentions of respondents adduced in their counter

reply dated 09.1.2025 under the heading brief facts stating

that the applicant has first joined as Assistant Commissioner,

Mumbai Custom Zone on 13.5.2019 and ever since remained

posted at Mumbai in different formations like Custom,

Central Excise, NIA, DRI and NCB till 08.06.2022, needs to

be examined in view of para 8 of the Transfer/Placement

Guidelines, 2018. It lays down that the period spent by the

applicant at a station needs to be worked out keeping in

mind the criterion laid down in para 8 of the

Transfer/Placement Guidelines, 2018. We could clearly

decipher that the applicant has spent a period of 06 years

and 08 months on deputation / loan basis in various entities

at Mumbai / Delhi. Therefore, as per para 8 of the above

guideline, the above-mentioned period of 06 years and 08

months is required to be deducted from the period spent by

the applicant at a station (Mumbai). It could be seen that a

period of 04 years and 04 months out of above-mentioned

period of 06 years and 08 months, was spent in Delhi.

Hence, the contention of the respondents is incorrect and

cannot be relied upon. It is disheartening to state that the 28 OA No. 3677/2024 respondents are indulging into such assertions despite of

having complete details of postings of the applicant with

them. This stand of respondents definitely smacks their bias

towards the applicant. We are of the view that the Transfer

Guidelines, 2018 issued by the respondents are not the dead

letters and are the guiding principles under which the

respondents are required to conduct their administrative

business in just and fair manner. We are also of the given

view that in this case, the respondents have failed to uphold

their own policy. 41. It is well laid and accepted principle that while ordering

transfer, government must keep in mind the guidelines on

the subject. In this case, the impugned action of the

respondents is arbitrary and violative of their own transfer

policy, hence liable to be set aside. It is trite in law that state

action should not be arbitrary and violative of its own

guiding principles for exercise of their powers. The existence

of discretionary power does not mean reckless or arbitrary

exercise of power. Transfer policies are framed to guide the

absolute power of transfer and posting. If transfer is ordered

in deviation of policy, weighty reasons are required to be

recorded for such deviation. No such reasons have been

recorded by the respondents while issuing order dated

25.12.2024. OA No. 3677/2024 42. While hearing the matter on 11.02.2024, learned counsel

for the applicant has placed on record a communication

dated 07.06.2024 from the Additional Director General (Tax

Payer Services) Chennai Zonal Unit, 26/1, M.G. Road,

Nungambakkam, Chennai addressed to the Principal

Director General, Directorate General of Taxpayer Services,

Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs, Central

Revenue Building, I.P. Estate, New Delhi-1100109 and

submitted report in response to the communication dated 6th

June, 2024 of the Principal DG, Directorate of Tax Payers

Services, New Delhi, informing that nothing adverse was

noticed during the last two years of posting of applicant at

DGST, CZU and hence, recommended for deletion of his

name while reviewing the existing Agreed List in respect of

Group A officers for the year 2024-25 under the jurisdiction

of DGTS, CZU. The applicant has been rated as 9.5 numerical

grading in his latest APAR for the period from 23.8.2024 to

31.12.2024. The Reporting Officer has written in the „pen

picture‟ that the he (the applicant) is an asset to the service.

The Reviewing Officer has also mentioned in „pen picture‟

that the officer is overall an outstanding officer. Nothing

adverse is reported against the integrity. In view of this

position, contentions of the learned counsel of respondents,

wherein, endeavour has been made to give a meaning to

deputation (going out of place) beyond the 30 OA No. 3677/2024 Transfer/Placement Guidelines, 2018, is not acceptable. The

above mentioned transfer / placement guidelines allows the

applicant to remain in one or other formation at Mumbai. 43. There is no disagreement on the point that officer has All

India liability to serve, however, respondents while posting

the officers needs to adhere to their own policy in a fair,

transparent and just manner. We are unable to agree to the

contentions of the learned counsel of the respondents that

APAR is not the final authority to decide the issue, we hold

the view that APAR is an important document written by

Reporting and Reviewing authority throwing ample light on

the conduct and competence of an officer. Further, this is a

crucial document which is relied upon while adjudging an

officer on various attributes while considering the officer for

promotion/impeachment for Central Staffing Scheme etc. 44. We are well aware of the facts that it is a settled law that a

transfer, which is an incident of service, is not to be interfered

with by the Courts, unless it is shown to be clearly arbitrary or

vitiated by mala fides or infraction of any professed norm or

principle governing the transfer. However, the actions of

respondents are such which do not fall within the policy

framework laid by themselves. 45. In view of the forgoing discussion, we are of the opinion

that catena of judgments of Hon‟ble Courts cited by the 31 OA No. 3677/2024 respondents will not come to their rescue as they have patently

violated the transfer guidelines to transfer the applicant. With

utmost restraint, we refrain from imposing cost on the

respondents. It is held that the transfer of the applicant is not

inconsonance with the new Transfer/Placement Guidelines,

2018 for Indian Revenue Service (C&CE) Officers issued by the

respondents dated 12th April, 2018. 46. In the result, for the foregoing reasons, the order dated

30.05.2022 (Annexure A/2) transferring the applicant from

DGARM, Mumbai to DGTS, Chennai is quashed and set

aside with all consequential benefits. 47. Pending MAs, if any shall also stand closed. No Order to

cost.