The petitioner is before this Court in these

petitions seeking that the investigation in Crime

No.213/2009 of Halasuru Police Station, Bengaluru

registered for the offences alleged under Sections 120-B , 420 , 465 , 467 , 468 , 471 r/w Section 34 of the Indian

Penal Code (' IPC ' for short) be entrusted to the Central

Bureau of Investigation ('CBI' for short). In that regard

the petitioner is contending that the legal opinion given

by respondent No.2 at Annexure- P3 is illegal and not

valid. 2. The petitioner is a Banking Company registered

in accordance with law in India, having been

incorporated in Germany with branches all over,

including the one in Bengaluru. In the course of its 4 banking business, the respondent No.4 along with the

others named by the petitioner in their complaint,

representing M/s. Prithvi Information Solutions Ltd., a

company registered under the Companies Act approached the petitioner - Bank during July 2007

seeking provision for multipurpose trade/cash facility to

the tune of Rupees Thirty crores and also for

Forex/Hedging facilities. The petitioner alleges that they

made representations about the reputation of the

Company and the services being provided by them to

reputed International clients though it was false to their

knowledge. Being mislead by such representation the

petitioner - Bank agreed to provide the credit facilities

to the extent of Rupees Twenty Five crores through the

offer letter dated 20.11.2007. 3. The said Company thereafter submitted request

letters relating to the transactions in all amounting to

Rs.24,79,67,750/- which was credited to the current

account No.2045839-00-0 maintained by the said

company. The said amount was to be repaid before 5 16.09.2008 but there was default. The petitioner alleges

that the said persons however represented that they

have good relations with foreign purchasers such as

M/s. T-Mobile USA, M/s. Johns Hopkins Hospital, USA

and Star Point Solutions LLC, USA and that they have

executed work for them and held out that they are

entitled to receive amounts from them covering the

amount and sought for Bill Discounting facility. In this

regard, certain documents were also submitted.

Accepting such representation, the petitioner - Bank

agreed to provide the said facility to the tune of Rupees

Thirty crores and credited the same to the account of

the said Company. 4. The petitioner - Bank however did not receive

the payments from the said foreign purchasers and

when the same was brought to the notice of respondent

No.4, they assured of following it up. But when the

petitioner - Bank communicated with the said foreign

companies, the petitioner - Bank received letters dated

24.04.2009 and 07.05.2009 from the respective foreign 6 companies informing the petitioner - Bank that they did

not have any transaction with M/s. Prithvi Information

Solutions Ltd. The petitioner - Bank thus realising that

the documents submitted were fabricated and forged

which resulted in causing loss to the petitioner - Bank

and amounted to cheating, filed a complaint dated

06.05.2009 to the jurisdictional Halasuru Police Station

which was registered in Crime No.213/2009 on

07.05.2009 which was despatched to the X Addl. Chief

Metropolitan Magistrate, Bengaluru, which is the

jurisdictional Court. Apart from the same the petitioner - Bank also instituted recovery proceedings, winding up

proceedings and initiated action before the Ministry of

Corporate Affairs. 5. In so far as the criminal complaint, the

petitioner - Bank alleges that a superfluous

investigation was held and a 'B' report was filed on

22.07.2009 to which the petitioner - Bank filed the

protest petition. When the matter was heard by the

learned Magistrate and was posted for orders, the 7 Investigating Officer filed a memo dated 24.05.2010

seeking leave for further investigation on taking note of

the documents filed along with the protest petition. The

learned Magistrate accordingly, through the order dated

26.05.2010 permitted him to re-investigate. However,

since the method adopted by the Investigating Officer

was not appropriate, the petitioner - Bank made a

representation to the Commissioner of Police on

07.07.2010, who transferred the investigation to the

Central Crime Branch ('CCB' for short), Bengaluru.

Since the petitioner - Bank is not satisfied with the

investigation by CCB also, they are before this Court

seeking that the same be transferred to the CBI through

the instant petition. 6. The respondents No.1 and 2 on behalf of the

Investigation Agency has filed the objection statement

and have sought to justify the action of the Investigating

Officer. It is stated that the documents were secured

and the investigation was carried out and it was found

that a civil suit in O.S.No.4013/2009 was filed by the 8 persons against whom the complaint was filed. In that

view the entire documents were referred and as per the

opinion, 'B' report was filed. On the protest petition

being filed, the documents were obtained and as per the

direction of the learned Magistrate to the Joint Police

Commissioner, the investigation was referred to the

CCB. On investigation by the CCB, 'B' report was filed.

The petitioner - Bank has filed the protest petition. As

such the learned Magistrate has directed the

Commissioner of Police to re-investigate and accordingly

the investigation was entrusted to the Assistant

Commissioner of Police. The petitioner - Bank itself is

not prompt in furnishing the required documents and it

is prima facie found that some officials of the Bank are

involved and therefore the documents are not

submitted. When the Bank itself is not diligent, seeking

transfer to the CBI is not justified is the contention.

Further while filing the objections to the applications

filed by the petitioner, the respondents have adverted

more into the details of the investigation made and the

steps taken to seek information through interpole and 9 explore whether investigation can be conducted abroad.

The relevant statements recorded have been referred.

Further the status report has also been filed before this

Court since during the course of the proceedings this

Court had directed the investigation to be held and the

report to be filed. The respondents No. 1 and 2 therefore

seek to justify the investigation made and contend that

the investigation by the CBI is not called for and hence

sought for dismissal of the petition. 7. The respondent No.3- CBI has filed the

objection statement contending that since the matter

has been investigated by the CCB and since there is

nothing to indicate that they have not investigated in

the proper direction, the investigation by CBI is not

required. In the instant case, it is a private transaction

and does not involve any public servant so as to require

an agency constituted under Delhi Special Police

Establishment to investigate. It is further contended

that they are already over burdened with heavy cases

and such routine matters should not be entrusted to 10 CBI. The very averments made in the petition indicates

that there is no inter-state ramification. The alleged

offences having taken place in Karnataka, the local

police are competent. Hence they also seek dismissal of

the petition. 8. The respondent No.4 against whom the

allegation of committing the criminal offence is made,

having got himself impleaded has filed the objection

statement. It is contended that the writ petition is filed

on false and unfounded contentions. The allegation

that M/s.Prithvi Information Solutions Ltd., has

defrauded the petitioner - Bank is denied. Though a

complaint is filed in Crime No.213/2009, it is after due

enquiry the 'B' report was filed on 22.07.2009 and

thereafter a special investigation team attached to the

CCB has also investigated into the matter and a 'B'

report was filed. It is contended that there is no fraud

committed or cheating involving public money and

merely because of the false and unfounded allegations,

the Directors of the Company cannot be subjected to 11 repeated investigations. Insofar as the commercial

transaction entered into between the parties, the

petitioner - Bank has instituted proceedings before the

Debt Recovery Tribunal. 9. In the objection statement the fourth

respondent has also adverted in detail with regard to

the nature of transaction between the petitioner - Bank

and the company, the details of which need not be

stated herein except for noticing the same as the scope

of this petition is only with regard to the investigation

that is sought by the petitioner - Bank through a

different investigating agency. In that regard, it is their

contention that when the investigation was handed over

to the CCB, the petitioner - Bank expected the

investigation to take place at their whims and fancies

but when appropriate documents were sought by the

Investigating Officer, the petitioner - Bank instead of

providing the same, has been making baseless

allegations. The allegation against the Company that

they are habitual defaulters is denied. It is in that light 12 contended that the mere allegations, being made by the

petitioner - Bank cannot be the basis for directing

investigation through the CBI when the two

investigations already conducted has found that the

grievance is civil in nature and third investigation is in

progress. Hence, they have sought dismissal of the

petition. 10. In the light of the above, I have heard

Sri S. Vijayashankar, learned Senior Counsel,

Sri C.V.Nagesh, learned Senior Counsel,

Sri A.S.Ponnanna, learned Addl. Advocate General and

Sri P.Prasanna Kumar, learned counsel for the

respective parties and perused the petition papers. 11. Though the nature of the transaction between

the petitioner - Bank and the Company which is

represented by the fourth respondent is referred in

detail, keeping in view the fact that the jurisdictional

police as well as the CCB have already investigated into

the matter and the 'B' report has been filed before the 13 jurisdictional Magistrate and in that light since the

petitioner being dissatisfied with the investigation is

seeking that the re-investigation be entrusted to CBI

which is the specialized Agency under the Delhi Special

Police Establishment, the legal position relating to the

power that is available to this Court and the manner in

which it is to be exercised is to be noticed at the outset

as large number of decisions are cited by the learned

senior counsel and the counsel for the parties. Hence

that aspect of the matter requires consideration before

coming to the conclusion as to whether in the instant

case re-investigation by a different agency is necessary

or not. 12. Learned senior counsel for the petitioner has

relied on the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in

the case of Central Bureau of Investigation and

another vs. Rajesh Gandhi and another [(1996)11

SCC 253] and in the case of Sanjeev Rajendra Bhatt

vs. Union of India and others [(2016)1 SCC 1] to

contend that with regard to the decision to investigate 14 or the decision on the agency that should investigate

the accused cannot have any say in the matter and as

such a consideration in that regard does not attract the

principles of natural justice. In that view, it is

contended that the fourth respondent herein cannot

have any say and the very order passed by this Court

permitting him to come on record by allowing the

impleading application is not appropriate. On the

position that the accused cannot choose the

investigating agency, there can be no dispute as it is

ultimately for the competent authority or in appropriate

cases for the Court to direct the investigation to be

carried out by a particular agency. However, in the

instant case, the fourth respondent has come on record

not only to indicate the nature of transaction, but also

to contend before this Court that two investigations had

been carried out by the jurisdictional Police as also the

specialized agency and to contend that the accused

cannot be made to undergo the repeated rigour of

investigation over the same issue merely because the

complainant is not satisfied, when the jurisdictional 15 Court in any event would look into the report filed

before it and satisfy itself. It is also pointed out that

the investigation should not only be fair to the

complainant, but should be fair to the accused as well.

Hence the legal position on this aspect of the matter

which has been brought forth on behalf of the fourth

respondent no doubt will also have to be taken note by

this Court. 13. The learned senior counsel for the petitioner

while seeking to point out the view taken by the Hon'ble

Supreme Court with regard to the effective investigation

and reinvestigation has referred to the following

decisions: 319 Cr.P.C . to proceed against other persons who are

not arrayed as accused in the charge sheet itself. The

Court can summon such suspected persons and try

them as accused in the case, provided the Court is

satisfied of involvement of such persons in commission

of the crime from the record and evidence before it.

Wherever the State fails to perform its duties, the Court

shall step in to ensure that the Rule of law prevails over

the abuse of process of law. Such abuse may result

from inaction or even arbitrary action of protecting the

true offenders or failure of different authorities in

discharging statutory or legal obligations in consonance

with the procedural and penal statutes. The case 18 pertains to the investigation relating to illegal mining,

wherein the matter was transferred to the CBI. iv) Subrata Chattoraj vs. Union of India and

others (Writ Petition (Civil) No.401/2013) wherein

while considering the case relating to a major financial

scam called the 'Chit Fund Scam' affecting lakhs of

depositors across several states in the eastern part of

the Country the Hon'ble Supreme Court keeping in view

the sensitivity as also the inter-state ramifications of the

scam which was being investigated, though the State

police agency had done well in making the seizures, in

registering cases, in completing investigation in most

cases and filing charge sheets and bringing the

responsible persons to book the money trail had not

been traced. In that circumstance the investigation by

CBI was ordered. v) Babubhai vs. State of Gujarat and others

[(2010)12 SCC 254] wherein, while considering the

matter relating to the investigation pertaining to the

clash between two communities it was observed that the 19 investigation into a criminal offence must be free from

objectionable features or infirmities which may

legitimately lead to a grievance on the part of the

accused that the investigation was unfair and carried

out with ulterior motive. Hence it was held that the

Investigating Officer should be fair and conscious so as

to rule out any possibility of fabrication of evidence and

his impartial conduct must dispel any suspicion as to

its genuineness. The Investigating Officer is not merely

to bolster up the prosecution case with such evidence

as may enable the Court to record the conviction but to

bring out the real unvarnished truth. Fair investigation

is also part of the constitutional right guaranteed under Articles 20 and 21 of the Constitution of India. The

investigation must be fair, transparent and judicious

and the investigating agency cannot be permitted to

conduct an investigation in a tainted and biased

manner. Where non-interference of Court would

ultimately result in failure of justice, the Court must

interfere. In such situation, it may be in the interest of 20 justice that independent agency chosen by the High

Court makes the fresh investigation. vi) Advocates Association, Bangalore vs. Union

of India and others [(2013)10 SCC 611] wherein the

Hon'ble Supreme Court while looking into the case

relating to the scuffle between advocates, police and the

media persons in the Court Complex which lead to

violence, keeping in view the unfortunate incidents and

also the fact that the SIT had not even been constituted

despite direction, the investigation was transferred to

the CBI. 14. In order to contend to the contrary, the

following decisions are cited on behalf of the

respondents, (i) The case of State of West Bengal and others -

vs- Committee for Protection of Democratic Rights,

West Bengal and others (AIR 2010 SC 1476) wherein

the consideration was made while answering a reference

relating to transfer of investigation by the Court without

the consent of the State Government. It was concluded 21 by emphasising that despite the wide powers conferred

by Articles 32 and 226 of the Constitution, while

passing any order, the Court must bear in mind certain

self imposed limitations on exercise of these

Constitutional powers. The very plenitude of the power

requires great caution in its exercise. Though no

guideline can be laid down to decide whether such

power should be exercised to direct CBI to conduct the

investigation, time and again it is reiterated that such

an order is not to be passed as a matter of routine or

merely because a party has levelled some allegations

against the local police. The extraordinary power must

be exercised sparingly, cautiously and in exceptional

situations where it becomes necessary to provide

credibility and instil confidence in investigations or

where the incident may have national or international

ramifications or where such an order may be necessary

for doing complete justice and enforcing the

fundamental rights. Otherwise the CBI would be flooded

with a large number of cases and with limited

resources, may find it difficult to properly investigate 22 even serious cases and in the process lose its credibility

and purpose with unsatisfactory investigations. (ii) The case of T.C.Thangaraj -vs- V.Engammal

and others ( AIR 2011 SC 3010) wherein the above

decision was noted and it was held that the case on

hand was not an exceptional case to be transferred to

CBI but only because there was no progress in the

investigation and one of the accused was an Inspector of

Police, directed that the investigation be entrusted to an

officer who is higher in rank. In that circumstance it

was noticed that Sec. 156(3) of the Cr.P.C. provides for a

check by the Magistrate on the police performing their

duties and where it is found that the police have not

done their duty or not investigated satisfactorily, he can

direct the police to carry out the investigation properly

and can monitor the same. (iii) The case of Vasanti Dubey -vs- State of

Madhya Pradesh [(2012) 2 SCC 731] wherein the

issue relating to the manner of consideration if a closure

report is filed and procedure of re-investigation arose for

consideration. On taking note of the provisions 23 contained in Sections 156(3) , 190(1)(c) , 200 and 202 of

Cr.P.C. it was held, when the closure report is not

accepted, it is the statutory and legal duty to either pass

a fresh order taking cognizance if the complaint is

refused to be dismissed and proceed with the enquiry by

examining the complainant and record reasons to

disagree with the closure report. If police investigation

or judicial enquiry is required it must be proceeded

under Section 202 , but in any case cannot direct the

police to straightaway file the charge sheet. (iv) The case of Prof. K.V.Rajendran -vs-

Superintendent of Police, CBCID South Zone,

Chennai and others [2013(6) Supreme 136] wherein

it is reiterated that the power of transferring the

investigation to CBI must be in rare and exceptional

cases. Where the investigation is already completed and

charge sheet has been filed, ordinarily the Superior

Court should not reopen the investigation and it should

be left open to the Court where the charge sheet has

been filed to proceed with matter in accordance with

law. The matter has been left to the power to be 24 exercised by the learned Magistrate under Sec. 173(8)

Cr.P.C. (v) The case of Sujatha Ravi Kiran @

Sujatasahu -vs- State of Kerala and others [2016(4)

Supreme 162] wherein it is observed that while seeking

transfer, mere apprehension is not sufficient. It is held

that the ordinary power of the Constitutional Courts in

directing CBI to conduct the investigation in a case

must be exercised rarely in exceptional circumstances,

especially, when there is lack of confidence in the

Investigating Agency or in national interest and for

doing complete justice in the matter (vi) The case of K.Saravanan Karuppasamy and

another -vs- State of Tamil Nadu and others [(2014)

10 SCC 406] wherein by reiterating the position

declared earlier has held that an order to conduct

investigation by CBI is not to be passed as a matter of

course merely because the party has levelled allegations

against the local police. The extraordinary power in

handing over investigation to CBI must be exercised

cautiously and in exceptional circumstances. 25 (vi) The case of Hari Singh -vs- State of U.P.

[(2006) 5 SCC 733] wherein while considering the

question of investigation sought by CBI where the police

had not taken action, the procedure under the Code

was noticed. It is held therein that when the information

is laid with the police, the procedure is to be followed

under Section 190 and 200 of the Code and that in

such cases the writ petition should not be entertained. 15. The learned Senior Counsel for the petitioner

has relied on the decision of the Hon'ble Division Bench

of this Court in Girimallappa -vs- State of Karnataka

and others (WPHC No.200001/2016 dated

04.04.2016) wherein the investigation was transferred

to CBI and the learned Senior Counsel for the

respondent has cited a decision of this Court in the case

Nusrath Jahan -vs- State of Karnataka and others

(W.P.No.40282/2010 dated 13.09.2012) wherein this

Court has declined the request for CBI investigation. In

both the said cases the decisions of the Hon'ble

Supreme Court has been noted and has been applied to 26 the facts arising therein and the order of the Division

Bench was in Habeas Corpus petition where it was

noticed that no action at all had been taken. Therefore

the position of the law as noticed from the decisions of

the Hon'ble Supreme Court referred above is to be

crystallised and the present issue will have to be noticed

to come to a conclusion whether any other form of

investigation is to be ordered by this Court in this

petition. 16. From the decisions noticed supra it is crystal

clear that insofar as the matter relating to the

investigation to be conducted on a complaint, the

Investigating Officer will have to carry out the

investigation in all earnestness. He should neither

exclude any relevant material nor should he be expected

to create or fabricate material to bring to book the

accused under any circumstance. It should be a fair

investigation. On completion of the investigation and the

report is laid before the jurisdictional Court, the learned

Judge of such Court has the duty to examine the report 27 and either accept the same or to order further or fresh

investigation in terms of Section 173(8) of Cr.P.C. In

appropriate cases the learned Judge may also record

evidence and proceed in terms of Section 202 of Cr PC.

Keeping in perspective such procedure available to

protect the interest of the complainant as also the

accused, the power of this Court to exercise its

discretion under Article 226 of the Constitution is

circumscribed. It is therefore held that the power to

direct the investigation by another agency should not be

done in a routine manner for the mere asking or based

on apprehensions. It is only in exceptional cases which

has serious ramifications such power should be

exercised. In that background the instant facts are to be

adverted to come to a conclusion whether the present

facts call for exercise of such sparing discretion. 17. The narration of facts at the commencement

of this order will disclose that the transaction between

the petitioner and the company represented by the

fourth respondent is essentially a commercial banking 28 transaction between the Banker and its customer.

Though contentions have been urged on behalf of the

petitioner about the fraud committed by the fourth

respondent, in a petition of the present nature this

Court need not analyse the documents to come to the

conclusion as to whether such allegation against the

fourth respondent is true or not and as to whether the

fraud is committed. It cannot also be expected that

merely because the petitioner filed the complaint it

should result only in filing the charge sheet and result

in punishment. However, what is to be examined is

relating to the nature of investigation held and whether

in such a case where the learned Magistrate is seized of

the matter, it would call for further investigation by the

CBI as sought by the petitioner. 18. From the communication dated 02.12.2008

addressed to the petitioner - Bank, the fourth

respondent has referred to the details of the amount

due from Starpoint Solutions LLC and T Mobile USA

and sought for availment of the post shipment facility 29 and to credit the same to their account. The statement

maintained and produced at Annexure-J1 no doubt

depicts the claim of the amount due from the fourth

respondent. The letter dated 25.03.2009 from the

company of the fourth respondent to the petitioner -

Bank not only refers to the above noted foreign parties

but also M/s.Johns Hopkins and refers to the amount

due from them and the advice made to pay the amount

to the petitioner - Bank to liquidate the loan. The letter

further states that it is being followed up with them, yet

they have not made the payment. The petitioner

contends that the said letter constitutes fraud,

misrepresentation and cheating as such representation

was made despite the same being to the knowledge of

the fourth respondent that it is false. 19. Though the petitioner - Bank had acted

upon such representation, the petitioner on further

enquiries with said foreign parties were shocked to

know that they were not due any amount to the

company of the fourth respondent. M/s. Starpoint 30 addressed a letter dated 24.04.2009, while M/s.Johns

Hopkins addressed the letter dated 07.05.2009 to the

said effect. The letters are at Annexures K1 and K2 to

the petition. It is in that view the petitioner - Bank filed

the complaint which was registered in Crime No.

0213/2009 on 07.05.2009 as at Annexure L. The

grievance of the petitioner - Bank is that the said case

has not been investigated diligently and in a fair

manner but merely based on the opinion, a B-

report was filed. Despite protest petition being filed and

further investigation being ordered no investigation

worth its name was made. 20. In the instant case the complaint was filed on

07.05.2009. The jurisdictional Police on investigation

has filed the 'B' report on 22.07.2009. The petitioner

filed a protest petition as at Annexure-Q seeking

rejection of the 'B' report and praying that

reinvestigation be directed into the matter by a superior

Police Authority. An additional protest petition was also

filed. On taking note of the details in the protest 31 petition and the documents relied on, the investigating

Officer who had earlier investigated into the matter filed

a memo dated 24.05.2010 seeking leave of the Court to

carry out further investigation into the matter. The

learned Magistrate by the order dated 26.05.2010

permitted further investigation. During the said

process, the petitioner bank addressed the request

dated 07.07.2010 (Annexure-S) to the Commissioner of

Police seeking that the investigation be referred to the

COD, Karnataka or recommend to the Court to entrust

the case to CBI. Based on the request, the investigation

was transferred to the CCB. On further investigation,

'B' report was filed on 29.09.2010. In the meanwhile,

though the instant petition was filed, since the learned

Magistrate was seized of the matter and the pendency of

this petition was not brought to the notice of the Court,

the learned Magistrate by the order dated 02.11.2011

passed an order indicating that the 'B' report cannot be

accepted and directed the investigating agency to make

further investigation and submit the final report. The

said process is yet to be completed since in the 32 meanwhile the issue had shifted to this Court. Hence

that aspect is also to be borne in mind while taking a

decision in the instant case. 21. Therefore, from the sequence of events as

noticed above, in respect of the complaint filed by the

petitioner at the first instance there was investigation

which resulted in the filing of a 'B' report and on protest

petition being filed the investigating Officer himself has

sought leave to re-investigate. During the said process

in view of the request of the petitioner, the

reinvestigation has been transferred to the CCB who

had filed a 'B' report after further investigation, but

such 'B' report filed has not been accepted by the

learned Magistrate, who has ordered further

investigation and as such a final report is yet to be filed

before the learned Magistrate. The immediate further

progress was hampered because the instant petition

was filed before this Court. In the process of

reinvestigation since the investigating Officer sought for

further details from the petitioner bank and also 33 summoned the Officers of the bank, the petitioner bank

made an issue of the same before this Court and in

that circumstance an order dated 14.12.2015 was

passed wherein this Court on taking note of the nature

of material to be collected permitted the investigation

Officer to carry out the investigation with great vigour

and report to this Court the progress made in the

matter. Pursuant to such order the status report is filed

before this Court. The learned senior counsel for the

petitioner by referring to the status report would

contend that the investigation carried out thereafter is

also not satisfactory and as such it is necessary that the

investigation be transferred. 22. The learned senior counsel for the petitioner in

that regard has referred to the status report filed on

06.06.2016 in an attempt to point out that the same

does not comply with the order. It is contended that the

details indicated on 25.12.2015 only refers to the e-mail

addressed to M/s.T Mobile and M/s.Johns Hopkins. In

so far as M/s.Star Point Solutions LLC, it is stated that 34 the e-mail address is not available and further steps will

be taken after securing the same. The communication at

Annexure T2 is referred to contend that the e-mail

address in fact had been furnished on 08.09.2010. The

letter dated 13.09.2010 at Annexure T3 is also referred

to state that the required documents were also

produced. The status report is referred further to

contend that except stating that letters have been

addressed nothing substantial has been done and as

such the direction of this Court is also not complied. 23. The learned Additional Advocate General has

on the other hand referred to the objection statement

and also to the very same status report to point out the

observation dated 12.02.2016, 22.02.2016 and the

conclusion note to point out that the Officers of the

bank themselves have not been co-operating in the

investigation and the role of the Officers themselves is

suspected. Further the status report dated 22.08.2016

is referred to indicate the progress made and is pointed

out that once the confirmation is received, the matter 35 will be concluded. The third investigation is at the fag

end and once it is complete the report will be filed before

the learned Magistrate. 24. Having noted all these aspects of the matter,

it is to be observed that the order dated 14.12.2015

passed by this Court cannot be understood as an order

by which this Court had taken upon itself to monitor

the investigation so as at this stage to examine the

defects in the investigation being pointed out with

reference to the status report. On the other hand what

is necessary to be kept in perspective is that at a stage

when the instant petition was filed the investigation had

been completed twice by two different investigating

agencies. At the first instance the jurisdictional police

had filed the 'B' report and thereafter the investigating

officer had again sought to re- investigate, which was

permitted by the learned Magistrate. However it is at the

request of the petitioner bank, the re-investigation was

transferred to the CCB which is a specialised wing of

the police. Even such re-investigation resulted in a 'B' 36 report being filed. Though that was the position the

learned Magistrate had not accepted the 'B' report, but

has directed re-investigation which will disclose that the

learned Magistrate is in control of the proceedings in

terms of Section 173(8) of Cr PC as per the procedure

indicated by the Hon'ble Supreme Court. The petitioner - Bank ought to have reposed confidence in that process

by co-operating with such investigation. 25. Instead of doing so, it is the petitioner bank

which derailed and changed the direction of the re-

investigation by filing the instant petition due to which

the re-investigation came to a grinding halt until a

specific direction was issued by this Court to proceed

further. In so far as the re-investigation ordered by the

learned Magistrate the order dated 02.11.2011 is still in

force and the same is required to be complied by the

investigation officer of the CCB and as submitted by the

learned Additional Advocate General the report will be

filed before the learned Magistrate. After all, in the

instant case, it is not as if something mysterious is to be 37 unearthed. The nature of transaction is known, the

parties involved in such transaction are also known and

the transaction is documented. All that is necessary is

to put it in perspective and form an opinion as to

whether it amounts to fraud. Hence, the need for

specialised agency such as CBI is not necessary. 26. In such circumstance the learned Magistrate

will have the occasion to consider the validity of such

report which is the natural course of law as

contemplated under Section 173(8) of Cr PC. If in fact

the materials indicate the essence of the offence as

alleged the further course will follow. If the principle of

the law as laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court

noticed supra is kept in view, the instant case is not a

case where this Court should exercise its discretion to

order investigation by CBI. Though the petitioner bank

has produced the RBI circulars along with the memo for

additional documents, the guideline 6.1 therein provides

that even the nature of the fraud presently alleged will

have to be reported to the State police. It is only in 38 respect of Public Sector banks where the fraud alleged

is more than Rs.300 lakhs it is to be reported to CBI. 27. Further in the present transaction, though

fraud is alleged, it is just a commercial transaction

between the bank and its customer where while

entering into such transactions 'due diligence' to be

carried out by the bank is also expected. Notwithstanding the same even if fraud is alleged and a

complaint is made no doubt it is to be investigated

which in any event is under active supervision of the

learned Magistrate and as noticed above, it is all about

collating the documents, which may be discovered to

exist. Merely because the petitioner - Bank feels that

the investigation is not satisfactory it cannot be

entrusted to CBI when the allegation is not of the

nature where there is a scam which has national or

international ramifications nor is it a circumstance

where several customers are effected by such act. If

such transfer is ordered merely because the petitioner -

Bank feels dissatisfied and to allay their apprehension, 39 it will set a bad precedent where all banks will expect

that their failed commercial transactions will have to be

investigated by CBI the moment they allege fraud and

investigation is sought. In so far as the present case, if

the re-investigation carried out by the CCB is not

satisfactory, the protest petition can still be noticed by

the learned Magistrate and the law permits the passing

of appropriate orders in terms of Section 202 Cr PC.

The petitioners can avail their remedies in the natural

course in a petition under Section 482 of Cr PC, if

orders thereupon is to be assailed. 28. In the result, the following: Sd/- JUDGE

akc/bms