Heard through video conferencing. This is third bail application under Section 439 of the Criminal
Procedure Code, 1973. The first bail application was dismissed was as
withdrawn on 5.1.2018 vide M.Cr.C.No.26797/2017. Thereafter, the
second bail application was dismissed vide M.Cr.C.No.23964/2018 on
6.7.2018 by a detailed order. The applicant is in jail since 10.9.2016 in
connection with Crime No.604/2016 registered at P.S., Kotwali,
Mandsaur, District Mandsaur, for offence punishable under Sections
420 , 405 of IPC and under Section 6 of M.P.Nikshepakon Ke Hiton Ka
Sanrakshan Adhiniyam, 2000. As per prosecution story, the company known as G.N.Dairies
Limited allegedly incorporated under the Companies Act engaged in
the financial business accepting deposits from the public at large and
assuring them fanciful returns. Attractive schemes were floated in the
public domain inviting investments with assurance of handsome returns
with exorbitant rate of interest. Thousands of innocent citizens were
attracted to the schemes of the said company; as such invested money
which as per allegations in the FIR is almost Rs.8.00 crores. However,
to their ill-luck, none of the investors were paid back money with the
promised interest. Accordingly, FIR was lodged against the company,
its Directors, employees including the present applicant who is a
Chartered Accountant of the company and on Board of Directors of
Company at the relevant time. Shri S.K.Vyas, learned senior counsel, contends that after
dismissal of second bail application, charges have been framed under Sections 406 , 420 of IPC and under Section 6 of M.P.Nikshepakon Ke
Hiton Ka Sanrakshan Adhiniyam, 2000 on 23.8.2018. ( Divesh Kumar Vs. State of M.P .)

 Learned senior counsel submits that firstly, the maximum
sentence for the offences under Sections 406 , 420 IPC and Section 6 of M.P.Nikshepakon Ke Hiton Ka Sanrakshan Adhiniyam, 2000 is three
years, seven years and six years respectively. Secondly, looking to the
charges framed against him annexed at Page Nos.21 and 22, it does
not reflect that applicant in any manner was involved in alluring
individual investors for deposit of money. Therefore, he had no
connection with the factum of tendering and depositing the amount with
the company by them. Even otherwise, the evidence so far brought on
record during trial do not suggest involvement of the applicant in the
context of the charges levelled against him. Hence, it is case of no
evidence. Thirdly, neither the applicant is an employee nor the
member of Board of Directors, therefore, his complacency in the
alleged crime is doubtful and he cannot be further penalized being kept
in custody. Fourthly, since the applicant has already undergone almost
four years jail incarceration, it is fit case for grant of bail. Therefore, the
applicant may be enlarged on bail. Per contra, Shri Jain, learned Public Prosecutor, submits that the
second bail application was rejected on merits and reiterated that the
fraudulent activities of the nature in hand are on rise in the State,
particularly in this region. It is submitted that paper companies are
registered and brought into existence only for collection of huge
amount from the public at large under the purported fraudulent
schemes of investments assuring handsome returns with higher rate of
interest. Innocent people are allured with attractive offers and they fell
prey in their hands as a result several persons in Indore city itself have
been the victim of such fraudulent manipulated investment schemes. In
the case in hand, about 1,000 persons have offered their investment
and the company has collected about Rs.8.00 crores. The enlargement
of the applicant on bail shall be vulnerable in public eyes and the
possibility of recurrence of such fraudulent activities cancerous in
nature cannot be ruled out. Learned counsel further submitted that in
the instant case, thousands of persons invested money with the 3 M.Cr.C.No.19239/2020 ( Divesh Kumar Vs. State of M.P .)

company during the year 2009. The applicant on his own showing was
associated with the company as Chartered Accountant at least, upto
the year 2011, if not beyond the said period. Under such
circumstances, the alleged plea that the applicant is not involved in the
unethical and fraudulent activities of the company is based on
misconception of facts as the applicant was very much actively involved
in execution of such financial schemes of the company being its
Chartered Accountant and on Board of Directors of the company at the
relevant point of time. It is further submitted that this Court while
considering the application under Section 439 Cr.P.C., is required to
record its prima facie satisfaction as regards complacency of the
applicant with the alleged crime. In fact, he has used his status as
Chartered Accountant in formation of two similar companies under the
name and style of G.N.Group, wherein he was a Director involved in
the same business. The applicant is a habitual offender engaged in
such activities-manipulating and playing with innocent persons at large.
Under such circumstances, the applicant is not entitled for bail and
prayed for rejection of the application." Upon hearing learned counsel for the parties, this Court is of the
view that since the prosecution is yet to complete its evidence and
about 1,000/- persons were allured for making investments of huge
amount, it is highly sensitive scam shaking faith and trust of public at
large by fraudulent acts, manipulations and mis-representations. It is
relevant to take note of the fact that such fraudulent activities in this
region are on rise, where attractive financial schemes are floated with
ulterior motives laying trap for innocent investors. Chartered
Accountants are either taken on Board of Directors or used for
professional services to facilitate incorporation of fraudulent firms,
companies and manipulation in the books of accounts with collateral
purpose of mis-appropraiation and siphoning of funds. The applicant on
his own showing was associated with the company as Chartered
Accountant at the relevant time in the year 2011 as indicated from the
previous order. Even otherwise, prima facie the applicant as a 4 M.Cr.C.No.19239/2020 ( Divesh Kumar Vs. State of M.P .)

 Chartered Accountant appears to have played active role in such
 activities. However, Shri Vyas, learned senior counsel, has stretched out
 the argument to an extent submitting that the applicant was never
 associated with the company in any manner whatsoever, muchless; a
 Chartered Accountant or member of Board of Directors. Therefore, it is
 a case of false implication. This Court upon perusal of the case diary and the charges
 framed is of the view that the aforesaid argument is in despair and de
 hors the material on record. Be that as it may, this Court does not
 intend to make further observation on merits as the trial is pending.
 Suffice it to say that looking to the gravity of the offence, magnitude of
 fraudulent activities at the instance of the company and the persons
 associated with the company including the applicant and the fact that
 not a single penny has been returned to any of the investors, no case is
 made out for grant of bail. Consequently, this third bail application is
 rejected. Learned Public Prosecutor is directed to send an e-copy of this
 order to all the concerned including the concerned Station House
 Officer of the Police Station for information and necessary action. Registry is directed to send an e-copy of this order to the Court
 concerned for necessary compliance. It is made clear that this e-copy order be treated as Certified
 copy in terms of the advisories issued by the High Court from time-to-
 time. Certified copy as per rules. (Rohit Arya)
 Judge
Patil Digitally signed by Shailesh Patil Date: 2020.07.09 18:57:38 +05'30'