1. This is a reference made by a Division Bench of this Court. When the matter was argued before the Division Bench it was contended that by-law 5(a) of National Stock Exchange Ltd., was ultra vires. It was also specifically pleaded in Writ petition No. 25806/2000 that by-law 5(a) was ultra vires. There was an earlier judgment with respect to vires of bylaw 5(a) of National Stock Exchange Ltd., therefore it was thought necessary to refer the matter to Full Bench. 2. At the outset, the learned counsel appearing for the petitioners in one of the Writ petitions stated that he is giving up challenge to by-law 5(a), therefore, we are not going into the question of legality or vires of by-law 5(a) of National Stock Exchange Ltd. 3. The reference was also made because it was thought by the Division Bench that annulment of transactions has been ordered by the respondents for the first time in the country and no precedents are available. In this background the reference was heard. Facts have been narrated in detail in the order of reference but for the purpose of this judgment they will have to reiterated. 4. In all the Writ petitions, circular dated 21-11-2000 annulling all trades executed during settlement No. 27 in respect of shares of Maruti Organics Limited has been challenged. The facts which were mentioned by the Division Bench were taken from one of the Writ Petitions being W.P. No. 23584/2000. The facts may be summarised thus. 5. The petitioners deal in securities like shares, debentures and other instruments. They purchased shares of Maruti Organics Ltd. (hereinafter referred as MOL) during the period of various settlements by 1st respondent. They purchased and sold MOL shares. It is stated that, in all Stock Exchanges, sales and purchases of securities are being settled by the Stock Exchange. They are settled in block periods. The period is called 'settlement period' and is usually a week. The 1st respondent at the beginning of the year 1996 had notified 52 settlements and the period from 3-7-1966 to 9-7-1996 had been notified as settlement No. 27. As per the settlement calendar for settlement No. 27 the date for pay-in was 16-7-1-996 and the date for pay-out was 17-7-1996, That would mean that the investors and trading members who purchase the shares through a trading member of respondent No. 1 had to pay-in for the shares as per the confirmatory note by 16-7-1996 and those investors who had sold through trading members would be able to get the amount by 17-7-1996. The respondents 4 and 5 in the present Writ Petition were the members of the 1st respondent and they had obtained registration under Section 12 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act (hereinafter referred as ' SEBI Act ') from 3rd respondent. During the settlement period 26-6-1996 to 2-7-1996 the petitioners purchased a large number of shares and also sold large number of shares of MOL for a negligible margin of Re. 1.00 on each share. There were no complaints by anybody. It is further submitted that the 1st respondent had evolved a method of trading called 'NEAT' (National Exchange for Automated Trading) which was a software in the computer technology. The system generates an 'order confirming slip' when an order is placed and such transaction can mature only when the quotation for buy transaction and the quotation for the sale transaction are matched by the computer at Mumbai. In this method the seller or buyer who go to a trading member will not be knowing who are the purchasers or sellers of the shares. Nobody can have even any complaint because of the fool-proof computer aided trades in securities. About 14 trading members complained to the 1st respondent that some of their clients who had placed purchase orders for the shares of MOL, during the trading period of settlement No. 27 were absconding and hence the trades should be annulled. The same trading members as per their complaints to the National Stock Exchange (hereinafter referred as 'NSE') themselves admitted that these absconding clients had not been introduced properly with known sources of taking deposits and margins. Although the same trading members had made profits in MOL in 25th and 26th settlements, they suffered loss in 27th settlement on account of prohibition introduced by the Andhra Pradesh Government. The same persons lobbied with NSE and got cancelled the MOL transactions to cover their losses. It is submitted that such complaints are common phenomenon in all the Stock Exchanges. With regard to MOL, complaints made by NSE trading members to the NSE, the NSE cleared the pay-in and pay-outs in such a manner that NSE had shielded its own buying brokers by not collecting the full pay-in and had suppressed the fact and are now trying to help them by cancelling the transactions at the cost of investors. All the complaints made by the buying members are similar in content and even styled alike and that all the complaining members have unitedly lobbied with the NSE. They bought their shares in anticipation of rise in price but when they could not achieve their objective they came up with complaints. On 11-7-1996 the respondent No. 1 issued a broadcast to its members which reads as follows: The broadcast message was challenged before this Court in W.P. No. 13973 of 1996 and W.P. No. 14035 of 1996 on the ground that the action was without jurisdiction and that the same was unreasonable, arbitrary and irrational. The learned Single Judge disposed of the Writ petitions directing the 1st respondent to take a final decision with regard to settlement No. 27 with respect to trades relating to scrip of MOL within a period of two months. A Writ Appeal was filed which was also dismissed by the Division Bench. Thereafter, the 1st respondent got an enquiry done into the complaints made by 12 trading members who could not meet their settlement obligations. It is submitted that the enquiry did not indicate any trading member or broker. In fact, except in NSE in all other Stock Exchanges in India the trades of shares of MOL were settled. It is submitted that the trading members who gave complaints to NSE brought pressure on respondents 1 and 2 to annul the shares of MOL which were traded with them during settlement No. 27 and as a result the impugned circular dated 11-1-1997 was passed. In the said circular the 1st respondent informed that as per the request of the complaining trading members the NSE has decided to annul the trades in respect of which complaints had been received. The second respondent consequently issued letter on 21-1-1997 to respondents 4 and 5 and all other trading members enclosing a list of the trade done by respective trading members which were annulled and further enclosed a revised settlement obligation statement. In this letter the petitioners had been asked to take back delivery of the shares they sold to respondents 4 and 5 and also pay-in in respect of the shares which they had purchased. Aggrieved by these orders of respondents 1 and 2 the petitioners and other investors approached the Hon'ble High Court of A.P. by way of W.P. No. 1800 of 1997 and batch. The respondent No. 1 filed its counter and also filed a report on the basis of which the decision was allegedly taken to annul only some of the trades. It is submitted that the report did not give any categorical finding either on the question of fraud or on the question of the person who was responsible for such fraud. After hearing both sides the High Court on 27-4-2000 quashed the annulment of the trades and directed the 1st respondent to make proper enquiry after serving a copy of the material which would be used by them in the enquiry on the petitioner and all other persons who were affected by the annulment. The High Court gave two months time to complete the enquiry. The 1st respondent thereafter sent a set of papers including their earlier report and a fresh report said to have been prepared in August, 2000. It is submitted that the fresh report was essentially an analysis of earlier material and analysis of the trades. On the basis of this analysis the 1st respondent sought to arrive at the conclusion that there was some sort of manipulation of the market. The petitioners had filed their objection to the material as well as the reports relied upon by the 1st respondent. Subsequently, the 1st respondent organized a public hearing where members of a committee of the 1st respondent interacted with both the complaining members as well as the other participating members and the investors. On 23-11-2000 the petitioners came to know that the 1st respondent issued a circular dated 21-11-2000. In this circular the 1st respondent had informed its members that all trades relating to the shares of MOL, in settlement No. 27 of 1996 have been annulled. It is submitted that the decision is arbitrary, illegal and unjustified, it is not based on any cogent evidence or material and it is also violative of fundamental rights guaranteed under Articles 14 , 19(1)(g) and Article 300(A) of the Constitution of India. This circular has now been challenged in these Writ petitions. 6. In support of the plea that the circular issued by the 1st respondent on 21-11-2000 was illegal and unjustified various contentions have been raised. The first contention was that there was no evidence and it was a case of no evidence. The second contention was that the respondent No. 1 had no authority to annul the settlement under any Act or any law. The third contention was that, having accepted some of the trades in the earlier circular the 1st respondent could not seek annulment of all the trades in the impugned circular. Initially the sale of 50,800 shares by the petitioners in settlement No. 27 was accepted and the sale of 19,02,000 shares were annulled and by virtue of the impugned circular the sale of 50,800 shares which were earlier accepted have also been annulled. 7. Coming to the first argument and first point whether there was any evidence or not, the learned Senior Counsel Mr. Rafiq a Dada appearing for the respondents submitted that there is evidence which was made available to the petitioners, they were heard and thereafter the decision was taken. The whole thing started with complaints to the National Stock Exchange Ltd., (hereinafter referred as NSEL), We are not referring to all the complaints but some sample complaints will have to be referred to. On July 6, 1996 one letter was written on behalf of Param Finance & Securities Ltd., to one Shri R.H. Patil, Managing Director, NSEL. This letter is reproduced. Now
 the schemed sellers will walkout of
 the operation in the scrip by unloading the targeted quantity by collecting the full money. The volumes/price traded will speak of the way in which the schemed operators have walked out from the scrip in the market, after making unlawful profit." Similar letters were written by some other parties also. One of the grievances of the petitioners is that the complaints are almost identical and have been written almost on the same date, some complaints from Mumbai, some from Chennai, some from Hyderabad and some from Bangalore. It is submitted that these complaints are manipulated because the complaints are not only identical but even the language is identical. The learned Senior Counsel submits that much cannot be read into the similarity of the complaints because of the fact that when various parties have dealt it in the name of the same company it is not unusual that they consult each other before making the complaints and it is not difficult in these days to contact each other within minutes from one city to the other city. After these complaints were made, the Stock Exchange started inquiring into the matter to which a reference has been given while narrating the facts. 8. Now, the case of the petitioners is that it was a case of no evidence as regards manipulation or fraud. We are conscious that this is not a Court of Appeal therefore our enquiry would be limited to seeing whether there was any evidence and if there was evidence then the Court will have to agree with the respondents, but if it is found that it was a case of no evidence then, of course, the matter would be different. 9. The report of investigation in the matter of trading of MOL is contained in Annexure-R5 from page-157. It starts with these words : In page-160 it notes; "The net position in this scrip in settlement No. 27 was 8,79,200 shares (as far as buying was concerned). As far as sale was concerned, for the same settlement it states that, "only 3 trading members contributed to 84% and 10 trading members contributed to 96% of the net sell position." The names of the top 3 trading members, the cities from which they deal and their net sale position has been mentioned as under: Summary of investigation of the Sell side was also given as under : 10. With regard to 'Buyers' the report dealt with region-wise. One Mr. V. Prabhakar appears to be a client who had purchased a majority of shares, he is not traceable. In the report, while referring to 'Arcadia Share & Stock Brokers Pvt. Ltd., it is stated : With respect to Delhi region, while referring to Trading Members "Maheswari Technical & Financial Services Ltd.," among other things it is stated: While referring to 'Artistic Finance Private Limited.', it is stated: Similarly, with respect to missing clients of Bombay region and Chennai region details have been given in the report. While referring to 'Yoha Securities Ltd.,' of Chennai region it is also stated : Similarly with respect to the missing clients in Hyderabad region it is stated that: While referring to "CIL Securities Ltd." it is stated: The analysis of telephone calls was also given. According to the report, calls were made from Mumbai, Chennai, Ahmedabad. 11. The learned counsel for the respondents submitted that, it is settled law now that only a decision making process and not the merits of the decision itself is reviewable as Court does not sit as appellate Court while exercising power of judicial review. In this connection he referred to a judgment of Supreme Court reported in Tata Cellular v. Union of India [1994] 6 SCC 651. 12. We have taken samples from the evidence to come to a conclusion that there was evidence on the basis of which an opinion could be framed that market was manipulated in order to commit a fraud. Therefore, this cannot be termed as a case of no evidence. 13. On the question of jurisdiction and competence of the Stock Exchange to pass an order canceling the settlement, the learned counsels for the petitioners have referred to number of regulations but the learned Senior Counsel appearing for respondents submits that, in order to appreciate the controversy it will have to be seen as to how the Stock Exchange works and how it is created. He refers to Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 . This Act was promulgated to prevent undesirable transactions in securities by regulating the business of dealing therein by providing for certain other matters connected therewith. Section 3 of the Act lays down that, any stock exchange, which is desirous of being recognized for the purposes of this Act may make an application in the prescribed manner to the Central Government. Section 4 lays down the power of Central Government to grant recognition to Stock Exchanges. Section 5 lays down the procedure for withdrawal or recognition and Section 6 authorizes the Central Government to call for periodical returns and to direct inquiries to be made. Section 8 gives power to the Central Government to direct rules to be made or make (sic) Section 9 gives power of recognized Stock Exchanges to make bye-laws. This section gives power to make rules in different areas including, under Sub- section 3(a) , to specify the bye-laws, the contravention of which shall make a contract entered into otherwise than in accordance with the bye-laws void under Sub-section (1) of Section 14 . 14. The learned Senior Counsel submits that, it is a fact, as contended by the learned Counsel for the petitioners, that Stock Exchange is a company incorporated under the Companies Act , but it exercises statutory powers and Sub-section (3) of Section 9 will have to be recognized as power of the Stock Exchange to cancel the transactions which in its view are fraudulent or manipulated. He submits that Section 9 contemplates a purposive interpretation otherwise even if Stock Exchanges are defrauded by sham transactions there would not be any methodology to stop such manipulations and frauds. He submits that when a Stock Exchange is recognized by Central Government on application in terms of Section 3 , it draws its powers of making bye-laws from a statute and not on the strength of being a company. He refers to various judgments of Supreme Court to substantiate the view that a purposive construction is needed to be given to Section 3 read with Section 9 . He further contends that when a Stock Exchange is recognized, under Section 3 it becomes a regulatory body and a regulatory body without the power to cancel fraudulent and manipulated transactions will not be able to discharge its functions under the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 . He refers to a judgment in Reserve Bank of India v. Peerless General Finance & Investment Co. Ltd. . This was a case in which Section 45-K(3) of Reserve Bank of India Act (2 of 1934) was sought to be interpreted. Peerless was a company under the provisions of Indian Companies Act with name Peerless General Insurance & Investment Company Ltd. It was carrying the business of life insurance. After the enactment of the Life Insurance Corporation Act, 1956 Peerless could not carry on life insurance business and it changed its name to Peerless General Finance & Investment Company Ltd., and started business of finance and investment. It offered small saving schemes to the public at large wherein the subscribers were requested to pay subscriptions for a fixed number of years and on expiry of said period, the subscriber is paid a sum of money called Endowment sum, which was the face value of the certificate and certain additional amounts by way of bonus. The said scheme offered by the Peerless was somewhat similar to the recurring deposit schemes offered by the commercial Banks, In this context, arguments were made as to whether the Reserve Bank of India could regulate and control the business of Peerless Company. The words which were used in Section 45-K(3) were "in respect of any matters relating to or connected with the receipt of deposits", In para 22 the Supreme Court held : 15. In the light of these judgments, it is contended that respondent No. 1 being a recognized Stock Exchange is entitled to frame bye-laws under Section 9 of Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 and Section 9(2)(k) empowers making of bye-laws as to the regulation of the entering into, making, performance, recession and termination of contracts, including contracts between members or between a member and his constituent or between a member and a person who is not a member, and the consequences of default or insolvency on the part of a seller or buyer or intermediary, the consequences of a breach or omission by a seller or buyer and the responsibility of members who are not parties to such contracts. It is submitted that the respondent No. 1 has a statutory power to frame bye-laws. On the other hand, the learned Counsel for the petitioners submitted that, the bye-laws are made in terms of Companies Act and not under the power available under the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act . We are not able to appreciate this contention for the reason that, if the respondent No. 1 has not the power to regulate the business of Stock Exchange then the whole purpose of enacting Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act would be defeated and dishonest buyers and sellers or purchasers cannot be brought to book. Needless to mention that a regulatory authority is to regulate which includes regulating all matters connected to the business. The regulatory bodies have very wide jurisdiction. The Supreme Court in Cellular Operators Association of India v. Union of India [2003] AIR SCW 366 in para-33 while discussing the powers of regulatory bodies came to the conclusion: It is further submitted by the learned counsel for the petitioners that even if it is conceded that some fraud was played by some people but their might be some genuine buyers, small time investors who saw the rate of a particular share going up and invested their money, therefore, at their cost Stock Exchange cannot annul the trade. The learned Senior Counsel Mr. Rafiq a Dada made a statement before the Court that all those persons who are found to be genuine buyers and are not part of the fraud or manipulation will be compensated, they shall not be paid compensation at the cost price but shall be paid at selling price, therefore, we do not want to go into the question whether Stock Exchange can annul the trade as a result of manipulation of fraud committed by some body. In this case, a judgment from Gujarat High Court was cited by the learned Counsel for respondents being Securities and Exchange Board of India v. D.M. Investments [1999] 1 Comp. L.J. 396 (Guj.), but since the counsel for respondents has given assurance to this Court that innocent and genuine buyers will not suffer, we do not want to go into that judgment. 16. Mr. Kodandaram, Advocate, however, submitted that the bye-laws might bind sellers, buyers, traders, etc., but not the third parties. If third parties suffer, their transactions cannot be annulled on the strength of bye-laws. This argument cannot be accepted. We have already held that the Stock Exchange is a Regulatory authority as is the Reserve Bank for Banking institutions. Third parties will have to abide by the decision of the Stock Exchange because when they transact business they must have been aware that there are bye-laws which have the force of law and will bind them. 17. The learned Counsel for the petitioners submitted that, in the first circular which was challenged in the earlier Writ petition only some of the transactions were annulled and latter circular all transactions relating to the shares of MOL in settlement No. 27 of 1996 have been annulled. They contended that, if there was no evidence against them in the first instance how could it be that their transactions were cancelled subsequently. The learned Counsel for the respondents submits that since there was a direction of the High Court in earlier Writ petition that the Stock Exchange should not discriminate between two sets of buyers, therefore that decision was taken. But, since he has given assurance that all genuine buyers will be compensated, therefore we do not think that this argument will not detain us any further. 18. For these reasons, the Writ petitions are dismissed. No costs. Bilal Nazki and T.Ch. Surya Rao. JJ. 19. After the judgment drafted by Mr. Justice Bilal Nazki was circulated to Mr. Justice J. Chelamcswar, the latter wrote a separate judgment. We have gone through the judgment where Justice Chelameswar agreed with the conclusions drawn in the judgment circulated but gave some directions also in the last para of his judgment. In this context we agree with Justice Chelameswar. J. Chelameshwar, J. 20. The advent of the concept of "Joint Stock Companies", which is the legal ancestor of the present concept of Companies with limited liability, (it is said, is the genius of the English Common Law) brought about a tremendous change in the human history. The whole concept of Joint Stock Company is that innumerable small investors pool up their investments to run business under the umbrella of a "Body Corporate" which has a distinct legal entity from each and all of such investors while the investors are entitled for a share in the profits earned and declared as available for distribution by the company, the investor's liability is limited only to their share capital in the event of the company making a loss. Yet another significant factor in the nature of Joint Stock Companies is that the share or shares of each of the investors are freely transferable though from time to time either by law or by contract limitations are imposed on the transferability of such shares. 21. Over a period of about two centuries, the concept of Joint Stock Company, became a worldwide phenomenon known to almost every legal system. At any rate to all the legal systems based on Anglo-Saxem Jurisprudence including India. 22. While as a concept, the shares of a company are freely transferable, there are many practical difficulties in ensuring enjoyment of such a right. For example, if a small investor in a small company in some remote corner of a country desires to sell his shares he might find it difficult to locate a buyer known to him. But, there might be a willing purchaser elsewhere in some other part of the country on his own perception of the profitability of the company of whose shares are offered for sale. To facilitate such remote sellers and purchasers of the shares, the concept of Stock Market was evolved. The individual buyer or seller of shares of any given company is relieved of the trouble of locating the seller or the buyer as the case may be. He could to go the nearest stock market and offer either to sell or purchase the shares of any given company and if he finds a seller or purchaser of the shares in the market, the transaction is completed. But in a given case, it is possible that when a seller goes to the nearest stock market he may not find immediately a purchaser in the same market, but in the modern world with the increased sources of information there could always be a purchaser at some other place, who is searching for a seller of that particular company's shares who also approaches the nearest stock market available to him. For individual investors obtaining information regarding the prospective purchasers or sellers is very difficult and expensive and become uneconomic having regard to the small or limited stakes they have in the market. This limitation provided an occasion for the invention of a concept of Stock Brokers. Stock Brokers are those who purchase and sell the stocks (shares etc.) from various individual sellers or buyers of stocks not because the stock broker would intend to retain all those stocks purchased, but because of his activity is constantly in possession or the information as to what is the current demand for a particular share in the various quarters of the country, of late, even in the world. The magnitude of the operation of the stock brokers makes it economic for them to obtain all the relevant information in that regard speedily and economically. 23. Over a period of time the activity of the stock market assumed such proportions which required monitoring by Law of such large scale transactions touching vast numbers of the population. Without going further into the historical development of Law on this aspect for the purpose of the present case, it can safely be started with the examination of the current statutory provisions on this aspect. 24. The first of them is the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 and the second, the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 , both arc enactments made by the Parliament, hereafter referred to as the 1956 Act and 1992 Act respectively. Under the 1956 Act, the expression "Securities" is defined under Section 2(h) as follows: The expression "Contract" is defined under Section 2(a) as follows: The expression "Stock Exchange" is defined under Section 2(f) as follows: Under Section 19 of the Act, it is declared that no person shall organize or assist in organizing, entering into or performing any contract in Securities except as a Member of a recognized Stock Exchange. Section 3 of the Act stipulates that any "body" which desires to be recognized as a Stock Exchange is required to make an application for that purpose in the prescribed manner to the Central Government. Section 19 read with 23 makes it an offence to organize a stock exchange without the permission of the Central Government Section 4 declares that the Central Government may after such enquiry as is indicated in the said section if satisfied may grant a recognition to such an applicant. The Central Government is also authorized under Section 4 to impose certain conditions for granting of the recognition, the contours of which are indicated in Section 4 . The various powers and obligations of a recognized Stock exchange arc contained in the other provisions of the Act apart from the various powers that can be exercised by the Central Government vis-a-vis the Stock Exchanges. 25. For the purpose of the present case, it is necessary to examine the scope of Sections 13 to 15 of the Act. Section 13 reads as follows: The substance of the sections that once a notification under Section 13 is issued in the Official Gazette, any contract relating to the purchase or sale of securities within the area covered by the notification would be illegal unless it is a contract between the members of a recognized Stock Exchange. In other words, though the original concept of free transfer-ability of stock in a company is maintained, a restriction on the right of transfer insofar as the manner of transfer is concerned is created. 26. Section 14 stipulates certain further restrictions on the free transfer-ability of the Securities and declares void certain transactions though otherwise valid and in accordance with Section 13 . The details of which may not be necessary for us for the present purpose. 27. Rules are framed under the 1956 Act called the "Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957 which prescribe the procedure required to be followed by the Government of India for the recognition of a Stock Exchange, the method and manner of making an application in that regard and the scrutiny thereof. Rule 8 of the said rules prescribes various qualifications and disqualifications for any person to become a member of the recognized Stock Exchange. The other rules provided for the various regulatory mechanisms of the activities of the members of a recognized Stock Exchange and also the activity of the Stock Exchange. The relevant rules will be referred to at a later point in this judgment, if required. 28. The members of a recognized Stock Exchange are also called Stock Brokers by definition under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Stock Brokers and Sub-Brokers) Rules, 1992 framed under the 1992 Act. Rule 2(e) defines Stock Broker to mean a member of Stock Exchange and a Stock Exchange is in turn is defined under the said Rule 2(d) as a stock Exchange which is recognized under Section 4 of the 1956 Act. 29. In view of the language of Section 13 , in all the areas to which Section 13 applied, members of a recognized Stock Exchange/Stock Brokers can enter into a contract for the purchase of sale of securities, that is, a member of the Stock Exchange can purchase for himself or sell the securities from another stock broker. If Section 13 is interpreted literally an individual owning "securities" cannot legally either sell or purchase unless he also becomes a "member" of the Stock Exchange. Such a situation would result in a great inconvenience to the owner of "securities" who is not a stock broker and would defeat his right to either freely transfer or acquire "securities". Therefore, the law-makers enabled such persons to carry on the activity of sale or purchase of the "securities" through the members of the Stock Exchange/Stock Brokers. This conclusion is a necessary implication of a combined reading of Sections 13 and 15 of the 1956 Act. In fact, Section 15 reads as follows: Section 15 also recognises a right of a stock broker to purchase "securities" from persons other than "stock brokers". Having regard to the dual capacity of the stock broker either to purchase or sell securities for himself, which he may retain or trade in future, the stock broker is also required to sell or purchase securities on behalf of persons who are not stock brokers (for convenience, hereinafter referred to as "clients"). Section 15 mandates that the stock broker shall not enter into any contract as a principal with any person other than a stock broker and if a stock broker desires to enter into such a contract as principal, he is required to obtain the consent or authority of the client which is required to be in writing either in the form of a note, memorandum or agreement of sale. These expressions, "note" and "memorandum" are not defined anywhere, but they are the documents which are invented by the stock brokers and exchanges over a period of time for the smooth facilitation of their business. What exactly is the legal nature of these documents called stock brokers notes or stock brokers memoranda is not required to be examined for the purpose of the present case except to state that they are pieces of evidence whenever a question comes up whether a stock broker dealt in a particular "security" whether in his capacity as a stock broker (agent 06 the owner of the security) or for himself le., as a principal. 30. By about 1993 there were about 21 recognized Stock Exchanges in the country and large number of stock brokers attached to those Stock Exchanges. In the last one decade and with the change of the policies of the Government of India, great many changes occurred in the organization of the stock markets. The coming into existence of the National Stock Exchange and the concept of dematerialisation of securities four statutory basis under the provisions of the Depositories Act, 1996 brought some main changes both in fact and in law in the day to day functioning of the Stock Exchange. 31. The proliferation of Companies in the wake of the liberalized economic policies of the Government of India in the last two decades resulted in a great increase of the activity in the stock markets and participation of millions of people in the trade of securities. A major scandal that occurred in the early 1990's in the stock markets rocked the country and made the Government of India to come up with the 1992 Act which provided for a great deal of control and scrutiny of the activity in the trade of securities. 32. Under the provisions of the above-mentioned two enactments and the subordinate legislation made thereunder, the stock brokers are required to maintain innumerable documents detailing each and every transaction entered into by them and those documents which made subject to his scrutiny by the various authorities from time to time under the above-mentioned two enactments. 33. Apart from the complicated regulatory mechanism created to monitor the juggernaut of the Stock Market, the activity of trade in securities is still governed primarily by the Law of Contracts. Where an individual decides either to buy or sell securities he is required to approach a stock broker for that purpose and when the stock broker agrees to execute the order of his client there is a Contract of Agency created by the "client" as a principal and the stock broker as an "Agent". Thereafter, the stock broker in turn enters into a contract with another stock broker for discharging his obligations arising under the above-referred Contract of Agency by either acquiring or selling as the case may be "securities" on behalf of the client. That another stock broker referred to above might be entering the contract in his capacity as a principal or as an agent for another client depending upon the facts of a given case. In a case where the 2nd stock broker referred to above is entering into contract in his capacity as principal with the 1st stock broker, there are two contracts in existence in the transaction. One is a contract of agency between the client and the 1st stock broker and the 2nd is a contract of either sale or purchase of securities between the two stock brokers. In a case where the 2nd of the above-mentioned stock brokers is acting in his capacity as agent for some other client, there are three contracts in the transaction. Two contracts of agency between the two stock brokers referred to above and their respective clients and a contract for sale-purchase of securities between the two stock brokers. 34. When a stock broker is purchasing or selling securities in his capacity as a principal, the terms of the contract between him and his client arc purely governed by the Contracts Act. When a stock broker enters into a contract of agency with some client either to sell or purchase securities for that client from the stock market, the stock broker does it for some financial gain which in normally called "commission" in the stock market, A client entering into a contract with stock broker with a requisition to purchase "x" quantity of particular security is necessarily under an obligation in the Law of Agency to pay the eventual purchase price of the security and also the commission to his stock broker and the stock broker in turn is under an obligation to pass on the price of the security to the seller of the securities. In the above-mentioned illustration, if a client fails to discharge his obligation to purchase price to the stock broker, the remedy of the stock broker under normal Law of Contract is to sue the client for the breach of contract. 35. But in this case, some stock brokers instead of suing their clients for the breach of contract, complained to the concerned Stock Exchanges for the annulment of the contracts of purchase made by them of the securities i.e., the shares of Maruti Organics Limited on the ground that their respective client's disappeared without paying the purchase price and that they (complaining stock brokers) have no means of finding out the whereabouts of such clients. It is also their case that it is not a stray case of a client refusing to fulfil his obligations under the Contract of Agency to pay the purchase price, but a systematic defrauding at the instance of the stock brokers who are the vendors of the stocks in question at the relevant point of time. 36. The various writ petitioners are individuals who claim to have held the shares of a public limited company called "Maruti Organics Limited" (hereinafter referred to as "MOL") except the petitioner in W.P. No. 23584 of 2000 which is said to be a proprietary concern owned by one Ch. Mohan Rao. The relief sought in all these writ petitions is common that the petitioners seek a declaration that the Circular No. NSE/COMP/2000/3, dated 21-11 -2000 issued by the National Stock Exchange of India Limited and consequential communication issued by the National Securities Clearing Corporation Limited, dated 28-11-2000 as illegal, arbitrary and void and consequently direct the National Stock Exchange to pay the various petitioners the amount of money due to them representing the sale price of the shares of MOL as quoted in the Settlement Period 27/96 along with interest. 37. About 15 stock brokers complained to the National Stock Exchange to the effect that their respective purchase orders for the shares of MOL during the Settlement Period of 27/96 is required to be annulled. The substance of complaint of all these brokers is that that a certain client approached each of them in the settlement periods prior to the one in question with a request of buy relatively small shares of MOL which shares were actually purchased by the complaining stock brokers in accordance with the requests of the respective clients for which the purchase price was paid by the respective clients to the respective complaining stock broker. Thereafter, for the settlement period of 27/96 those very respective clients of the complaining stock brokers placed orders for purchase of huge quantities of shares of MOL and the orders were executed. The clients did not turn up to keep their commitment and pay the purchase price. The above-mentioned facts resulted in a situation that the complaining stock brokers were left with a huge liability to make the payment to the corresponding selling brokers towards the price of MOL which amounts cannot be recovered by the complaining brokers from their respective clients. Further, the substance of the complaints is that the whole transaction was a well planned scheme to artificially increase the selling price of the shares of MOL thereby the selling brokers made a big profit and the buying brokers (complainants) incurred a heavy loss as they did not purchase the shares of MOL as principals, but as the agents of the respective clients and the clients disappeared without making the payment of the purchase price. All the complaints were dated 6th July, 1996. 38. On the receipt of all these complaints, the National Stock Exchange of India issued a broadcast to its members, the substance of which is that the settlement obligations, for the settlement period of 27/96 will not include the obligations incurred with reference to the trade in MOL in view of a pending enquiry into the matter. The said broadcast message was challenged in this Court by way of some writ petitions viz., W.P. Nos. 23974 of 1996 and 14035 of 1996, The said writ petitions were disposed of by a learned single Judge of this Court directing the National Stock Exchange to take an appropriate decision in the enquiry that was said to be pending within a period of two months. The order was confirmed by a Division Bench on an appeal. 39. Thereafter, an enquiry into the matter took place and as a consequence the trade in the shares of MOL for the settlement period of 27/96 with respect to some selling brokers was annulled and the sellers of the shares were advised to take back their shares. Challenging the said decision another batch of writ petitions came to be filed at this Court in WP No. 1800 of 1997 and batch. This Court by an order dated 27-11-2000 quashed the decision of the National Stock Exchange and directed a fresh enquiry and also issued certain other directions regarding the procedure to be followed by National Stock Exchange. Accordingly, an enquiry was held which resulted in the present impugned action which is the subject-matter of these writ petitions. In substance the impugned action is that all the transactions of the settlement period 27/96 on the National Stock Exchange with reference to MOL shares now stand annulled. 40. The report of the Investigating Team concludes with the finding "therefore, it is evident that there has been a planned selling activity by planting buying clients with unsuspecting trading members. There is a case of widespread fraud in the trading of Maruti Organics Limited during Settlement No. 1996027 as indicated by the points mentioned above and sudden disappearance of buyers with major net buy positions in different centres simultaneously." As a consequence, the impugned action was taken. 41. It can be seen from the report that there were 15 corporate shareholders of MOL as per the records of the Stock Exchange between 19-8-1996 and 5-8-1998. As on 19-8-1996, there were only four major corporate share- holders who held 27,77,000 shares between them and the minor holders with a negligible number of shareholding. Whereas as on 30th September, 1997, the number of corporate stock holders of MOL increased to 14 with a cumulative shareholding of 30,55,900. As on 5-8-1998, they were once again 14 corporate shareholders whose cumulative shareholding was 30,80,000. Two corporate shareholders viz., Abhay Investment Private Limited, Abhyudaya Investments Private Limited had 13.285 lakhs, 12.747 lakhs respectively on the earlier date and reduced their shareholding to around 9 lakhs each by 30-9-1997 and continued to hold more or less the same number of shares by 5-8-1998. Whereas Nagarjuna Securities Limited had 90,700 shares initially which was increased to 2,41,800 shares by 30-9-1997 and continued to hold 2.54 lakhs by 5-8-1998. The other major corporate shareholders was one M.K. Securities Limited initially holding 83,100 shares, 82,800 shares as on 30-9-1997 and 12,700 shares as on 5-8-1998. Only one public sector company purchased about 8.41 lakhs shares as on 30-9-1997 while it did not have a single share by 19-8-1996. It appears that the said public sector bank was holding those shares as a custodian on behalf of the National Securities Clearing Corporation Limited, one of the respondents herein, but not on its own account, in view of the uncertainty of the situation. 42. The summary of the findings of the investigation on the selling side is that there is a nexus between the selling clients and the selling members. On the buyers side, the buyers were distributed all over the country partly classified by the report as Delhi, Bombay, Chennai, Hyderabad, Ahmedabad and Bangalore regions. From the summary of the report on the buyers side, none of the buying members entered into any agreement with their clients and the clients were not properly introduced to those buying stock brokers, the buying stock brokers did not even properly verify the correct permanent addresses of their respective clients. The investigating team, however, made enquiries into the accounts of these various selling and buying stock brokers and their transactions with their respective clients came to the conclusion that there was a case of widespread fraud in the trading of MOL by artificially inflating the price of the script. From the report, it appeared that some of the corporate shareholders and the selling stock brokers of MOL were responsible for the fraud. 43. The learned Counsel for the petitioners made three submissions. The 1st submission is that there was no evidence at all to enable the respondent - National Stock Exchange to come to the conclusion that there was a case of widespread fraud, (2) that the respondent - National Stock Exchange had no authority to annul the Settlement in question, (3) that in the earlier circular dated 11-1-1997 sought to annul only certain transactions of the settlement period 27/96 which itself came to be quashed by this Court in W.P. No. 1800 of 1997 and batch and the present impugned circular (sic) seeks to cancel all the transactions of settlement period 27/96 with regard to the shares of MOL, therefore illegal. 44. In response to the 1st submission of the petitioners, it was argued by the respondents on the basis of the Judgment of the Supreme Court in Tata Cellular 's case (supra) that it is only the decision making process and not the merits of the decision that is amenable to the jurisdiction of this Court under Article 226 , that this Court does not sit as an appellate Court re-appreciating an evidence which led to the conclusion. 45. I agree with the conclusion reached by my learned brothers on this aspect that there was some material before the respondent - Stock Exchange to come to the conclusion that there was a widespread fraud with regard to the trade of shares in MOL in the settlement period 27/96. Therefore, this Court does not sit as a Court of appeal reappreciating the evidence while exercising jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. 46. But the question is whether the respondent-National Stock Exchange of India Limited has the necessary authority in law to take a decision annulling the trade in any particular security, when such a decision is likely to affect the rights accrued under a contract to a person who is not a member of the Stock Exchange. In other words, the contracts entered into between the members of the Stock Exchange. In other words, the contracts entered into between the members of the Stock Exchange and their respective clients (who are not members of the Stock Exchange) either for the purchase or sale of securities. 47. The Bye-Laws of the National Stock Exchange of India Limited in Chapter VII deal with this aspect - more particularly Bye-Law No. 5 of the said Chapter, which reads as follows : 48. Though in some of the present writ petitions the vires of the said Bye-Laws was challenged at the time of arguments, that submission was not pressed - the said fact is already recorded in the judgment of my learned brother Justice Bilal Nazki. However, a submission was made on behalf of the respondents that in view of the language of Section 9(2)(k) of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956, which reads as follows : the respondent-National Stock Exchange of India is authorized to make Bye-Laws for regulating the contracts not only between the members of the Stock Exchange, but also the contracts between a member of Stock Exchange on the one part and non-member of the Stock Exchange on the other part. This submission, found favour by our learned brother Justice Bilal Nazki, but, I would, with respect to my learned brother Justice Bilal Nazki, withhold expressing any opinion on the aptitude and scope of Section 9(2)(k) of the above-said Act, as in my view, in view of the fact that the petitioners categorically gave up an attack on vires of Bye-Law No. 5(a) of the Stock Exchange, which Bye-Law is purported to have been made in exercise of the power conferred under Section 9(2)(k) of the above-said Act. Only a half-hearted submission was made on behalf of the petitioners about the vires of Bye-Law No. 5(a) of the Stock Exchange. Assuming for the sake of argument that the language of Section 9(2)(k) is wide enough to confer such a power on the Stock Exchange, whether such conferment of power on a non-sovereign subordinate law making body the respondent stock exchange - a company, would be consistent with the constitutional scheme of the delegation of powers (legislative in nature) is a question of which in my view requires a deeper examination. No arguments were advanced on these questions. 49. But, then the entire report of the Investigating Committee on the basis of which the present impugned decision is taken is based on an analysis of the relevant material connected to the corporate shareholders, their ' selling brokers and the nexus between the alleged missing clients of the purchasing brokers. The report does not disclose any material which implicates the individual shareholders who are the petitioners in these various writ petitions in the fraud. In which case whether the respondent-Stock Exchange is justified in annulling the trade in MOL with regard to settlement period 27/96 insofar as it pertains to the individual shareholders who are the various petitioners herein in a question which should logically arise next. 50. In this context, in view of the statement made by the learned Senior Counsel Sri Rafeeq Dada appearing for the respondent-Stock Exchange that such of those genuine sellers who have no part in the manipulation of the market will be compensated, I deem it appropriate to direct the respondents to pay such of those individual sellers of the shares in Maruti Organics Limited, who are the petitioners in these various writ petitions other than those sellers who are already identified in the report to have manipulated the market on the basis of which the impugned action is taken, shall be compensated in full by paying the market value of the share on the relevant date of the sale. In my view, having regard to the fact that the shares of the MOL are quoted not only in the respondent-Stock Exchange but also in certain other Stock Exchanges, the average value of the said share on the relevant date as quoted in the various other Stock Exchanges of the country should be paid as compensation. 51. Before parting with the case, I must also place it on record that in view of the admitted position that the complaining stock brokers did not take adequate precautions in ensuring themselves about the genuineness of the orders of purchase placed on them and in view of the fact that the complaining members/stock brokers could have purchased the stocks either as the agents for a client or as principals themselves, which fact could be established clinchingly if only they had followed the procedure prescribed under the regulations. In the Investigation Report on the basis of which the present impugned action is taken, investigating team made a summary of the findings on the investigation on the buying brokers i.e. the complainants before the respondent-Stock Exchange. The relevant portion reads as follows : 52. I am of the opinion that the respondents be directed to take appropriate disciplinary action in accordance with the Stock Exchange Bye-Laws against the complaining members. Otherwise, in such a situation, the members of the Stock Exchange might resort to such complaints with impunity whenever their speculations in the market fail. The history of stock markets does not lack instances of such scandalous manipulations by some of the unscrupulous brokers. The delinquent stock brokers whatever be the nature of their delinquency, in my view, should not be allowed to go scot-free even assuming that their delinquency is innocent. I say for this reason, by the very complicated nature of the stock market operations, non-compliance with any Rule or Regulation made by the stock market by the members should not be viewed lightly as such non-compliance is likely to result in financial irregularities both from the point of view of the investors as well as Nation. If the members of the Stock Exchange/brokers need the protection of the Stock Exchange to avoid loss in the hands of the unscrupulous manipulators, the members must strictly comply with every obligation imposed on them under the law. Any deviation in the compliance, however, trivial it may appear must not be permitted or condoned because such deviations might result in a situation like the present one where perhaps the unscrupulous members of the Stock Exchange seek the protection at the cost of the bona fide investors. 53. In the result, I dispose of these writ petitions as indicated above.