Facts of the case:- thereby giving rise to the instant proceeding being Asansol

 South Police Station case No. 03 of 2021 dated 02.01.2021

 under Section 420 / 467 / 468 / 471 / 406 / 120B of the Indian

 Penal Code (for short IPC ). 2. In the written complaint it was alleged inter alia that Mr. Jay

 Prakash Bansal (husband of opposite party no. 2) (for short

 J.P. Bansal) since deceased along with his brothers were

 dealing with a business styled as Mining Associates Pvt. Ltd. 3 Atwal Nagars, Garai Road, Asansol and during his lifetime he

 executed a 'will' on 03.03.2015 in respect of his 13.86% share

 of the aforesaid business in favour of the defacto complainant

 to enjoy the share of his business in her life time and after

 that his son Anish Bansal was to become the owner of the said

 share. 3. After death of her husband, J.P. Bansal on 06.02.2018, the

 defacto complainant claimed herself as legal share holder of

 the business of her husband in the said company. At that time

 one Sanjay Bansal son of Ram Babu Bansal, one of the

 partners of the said business produced one letter of Gift dated

 01.01.2018 reportedly executed by the husband of the defacto

 complainant in his favour and claimed himself to be the owner

 of the shares held by J.P. Bansal. Later on, the defacto

 complainant arranged to verify the signature of her husband

 on the letter of Gift dated 01.01.2018 by Private Forensic

 Document and Fingerprint Expert who opined that the

 signature on the letter of Gift dated 01.01.2018 and share

 Transfer Form are forged one and thereby accusation of

 commission of offence of cheating and misappropriation of

 property was levelled against the alleged persons. 4 4. That after conclusion of the purported investigation in

 connection with the instant case, the Investigating Agency

 submitted a Final Report as Mistake of Fact being FRT No. 84

 of 2021 dated 19.03.2021 due to 'want of evidence' and prayed

 for discharge of the accused persons, being the petitioners

 herein. 5. On 28.12.2021, the opposite party no.2 preferred a protest

 Petition (Narazi petition) before the Ld. Chief Judicial

 Magistrate, Paschim Bardhaman, Asansol with a prayer for

 further investigation into the instant case. 6. On 21.02.2023 the Ld. Chief Judicial Magistrate, Paschim

 Bardhaman in connection with G.R. Case No. 10 of 2021

 arising out of Asansol South Police Station Case No. 03 of

 2021 dated 02.01.2021 under Section

 420 / 467 / 468 / 471 / 406 / 120B of the Indian Penal Code

 allowed the Narazi Petition filed by the opposite party no. 2

 herein and was inter alia pleased to direct the Inspector-In-

 Charge, Asansol South P.S. to further investigate the case

 either personally or by a competent police officer under his

 control other than previous Investigating Officer and by the

 self same order the Ld. Chief Judicial Magistrate was further

 pleased to direct the Inspector-In-Charge, Asansol South 5 Police Station to get the documents in question examined

 and/or verified by any competent Central Agency. 7. Being aggrieved by and/or dissatisfied with the order dated

 21.02.2023 passed by the Ld. Chief Judicial Magistrate

 Paschim Bardhaman (Asansol), the petitioner has approached

 this Hon'ble Court under Section 397 / 401 read with Section

 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (for short Cr.P.C .).

 Issues:- Argument advanced:- Thus, she falls in the creed of dishonest litigants. 15. The allegation of involvement of Rs. 27 crores is not

 backed by any solid foundation as the Mining Associates is an

 unlisted company. 16. There is no mentioning of any reason behind rejection of

 QDEB Report. 17. In the impugned order, the Ld. Magistrate has recorded

 that signatures on the 'Letter of Gift' were duplicate. This view 7 has not been substantiated by any solid documentary

 evidence. As the expert whose opinion was relied on is not an

 empanelled expert. 18. The Ld. Magistrate has failed to identify contradictory

 allegations in FIR.[Para 11 of page 22 of Narazi Petition] 19. In the will there was no specific description of the shares

 and also the will was not probated. 20. To further substantiate his argument Mr. Bhattacharya

 has relied on the following cases:- 21. Per contra, Ld. Advocate, Mr. R.K. Gautam, appearing on

 behalf of the opposite party no. 2 has submitted that the

 Criminal Revision Petition is not legally maintainable as the

 same has been filed by the third person, namely Abhijit Sen

 Sharma who is not an accused. Hence he is not competent to

 file the same on behalf of the present petitioners/accused. 22. As per Section 397 (2) of the CrPC there is a clear cut bar

 to file the Criminal Revision against inter locutory orders, and

 undoubtedly, the order in question, dated 21.02.2023, passed

 by the Court of Ld. Chief Judicial Magistrate is an inter

 locutory order. 23. The petitioners have never contested the contents of the

 protest petition of the opposite party no. 2 before. 9 24. There is no provision in CrPC about the limitation/time

 limit in filing the protest petition and from the facts and

 circumstances it is clear that there is no delay in filing the

 protest petition before the Ld. Court. 25. During investigation, the police has seized four

 documents, including the Registered will dated 03.03.2015

 from the opposite party no. 2. But, unfortunately the said

 seized will was not sent intentionally and willfully, by the

 police, to Director, Q.D.E.B for comparison with other relevant

 documents, which have been seized in connection with the

 instant case. 26. The said Expert Report by QDEB is undoubtedly without

 any corroboration and its opinion is also not absolute. 27. The petitioners/accused have misled the Hon'ble Court

 by stating that the deceased is a full blood brother of Shri.

 Ram Babu Bansal but the factual position is that the deceased

 is the step brother of Ram Babu Bansal. 28. The Argument regarding the fact that opposite party no.

 2 did not question the validity of Report of the Director,

 Q.D.E.B, CID, Govt. of W.B. is also factually wrong as the

 same has been specifically questioned in para no. 34 at page-

 64 of the Main paper Book of Criminal Revision. 10 29. Ld. Advocate, Mr. R.K. Gautam, in support of his

 contention relied on following cases:- 30. In Suresh Kumar Goel (supra) it was held that dispute

 regarding ownership of shares can be dealt with under Section

 482 CrPC if it is an attempt to wreck vengeance against the

 appellants. 31. Ajit Savant (supra) dealt with a matter of signatures,

 finger impression etc. within the meaning of Section 45 & 47 of the Indian Evidence Act, in an appeal against judgment and

 order of acquittal. 32. Kishan Lal (supra) & Vinay Tygai (supra) emphasized

 on the power of Magistrate with regard to further investigation

 for ends of justice in case of prior unfair investigation. 33. Madhu Limaye (supra) observed that court can exercise

 inherent power for quashing interlocutory order. 13 34. In Dalip Singh (supra) The Hon'ble Apex Court came

 across an effort to mislead the authorities and the Courts. 35. In Dulal Sarkar (supra) it was observed that the court

 has to record the reason for dissatisfaction in the investigation

 before passing any order of further investigation. 36. Bhajan Lal (supra) and H. N. Rishbud (supra) dealt with

 the issue which is not identical with that of ours. 37. In Peethambaran (supra) Hon'ble Apex Court refused to

 interfere with the power of District Police Chief to pass an

 order of further investigation. 38. Girish Kumar Suneja (supra) & Amar Nath (supra)

 held that revision against interlocutory order is not

 maintainable under Section 397(2) or 482 of CrPC . 39. In Sahara Housing Investment Corporation (supra)

 Hon'ble Court discouraged to stay all investigation at

 interlocutory stage. 40. Luckose Zachariah (supra) held that the Magistrate

 would have to take considered view in accordance with law to

 analyze validity of ground for presumption that the accused

 have committed offence. 41. Babubhai (supra) held that fresh investigation by

 independent agency can be ordered where one party has been

 favoured in a biased investigation. 42. In Sumanta Sinha (supra) order of further investigation

 was upheld on the ground of no illegality in passing order of

 further investigation on a protest petition. 43. Hasanbhai (supra) held that further investigation cannot

 be refused on the ground of delay in trial proceeding. 44. In K. Chandrasekhar (supra) The Hon'ble Apex Court

 held that even after submission of police report under (2) on

 completion of investigation, the police has a right of 'further

 investigation' under (8) but not 'fresh investigation or

 reinvestigation'. 45. Murarilal (supra) & Alamgir (supra) held that the

 opinion of hand writing expert cannot be accepted unless

 substantial corroboration. 46. In Neeharika Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. (supra) the

 Hon'ble Apex Court observed that High Court should not pass

 interim order 'not to arrest' or no coercive steps 'to be adopted'

 during pendency of quashing petition under Section 482 CrPC. 47. Siddharatha Mukesh bhandari (supra) held that grant

 of any stay on investigation and/or any interim relief would be 15 only in rarest of rare cases. As a result, stay on further

 investigation with respect to criminal proceeding was set

 aside. 48. In Chandra Deo Singh (supra) The Hon'ble Apex Court

 held that the accused has no right to take part in enquiry

 before issue of process to the accused. 49. Ranjeet Singh (Full bench) (supra) held while accepting

 or rejecting a final report submitted by police after

 investigation there is no requirement to hear the accused. 50. Mathura Prasad (supra) held as follows accused is not

 entitled for opportunity of hearing at pre-cognizance stage and

 Magistrate is not required under law to hear an accused at

 pre-cognizance stage. 51. It was held in Central Bureau of Investigation (supra)

 that Court is only required to see if prima facie case exists and

 whether any sufficient material is available to proceed further

 against accused for which accused is required to be tried or

 not. 52. The State of Maharashtra (supra) held as follows-

 exercise of power under Section 482 should be done sparingly

 as it is an exception and not a rule and it should be done to do

 real and substantial justice. Decisions:- 53. After submission of final report (mistake of facts) defacto

 complainant filed one protest petition which was considered

 and allowed by the following order of the Learned Chief

 Judicial Magistrate, Asansol :- 54. Aforesaid order was assailed in this revision application

 invoking the provision of Section 397/401 read with Section

 482 CrPC. 55. Having regard to the rival contention to the parties along

 with the reported decisions relied on behalf of the respective

 parties it is settled that the prime consideration for further

 investigation is to arrive at the truth and do real and

 substantial justice. The hand of investigating agency for

 further investigation should not be tied down on the ground of

 mere delay. In other words, the mere fact that there may be

 further delay in concluding the trial should not stand in the

 way of further investigation if that would help the Court in

 arriving at the truth and do real, substantial and effective

 justice. 56. In terms of the issue raised in this case, I proceed to

 discuss the power of Magistrate. Whenever a final report

 forwarded by the investigating officer to a Magistrate under Section 173(2) (i) of the CrPC is placed before him, several

 situations may arise. The report may conclude that an offence 19 appears to have been committed by a particular person or

 persons and in such a case Magistrate may either :- 57. Here, Ld. Magistrate preferred to pry into the track of

 further investigation, presumably due to unusual facts and

 circumstances. 58. We are dealing with an allegation of forgery of letter of gift

 culminating monetary gain. 59. From the investigation it is not intelligible as to what

 prompted Mr. J.P. Bansal to transfer his entire share to his

 nephew by a letter of gift after three years of execution of a will

 transferring all his shares in favour of his wife (defacto 20 complainant) that too the letter of gift was executed only one

 month before his death. 60. During investigation, Investigating Officer collected both

 the will and letter of gift and send the letter of gift to the

 Questioned Document Examination Bureau and on receipt of

 report of 'no forgery', submitted final report (mistake of facts).

 On the other hand, defacto complaint also got that letter of gift

 examined by a private Forensic Document and Finger print

 expert (Brilliant Forensic Investigation Pvt. Ltd.) who found

 discrepancies between admitted signature of Mr. J.P. Bansal

 and his signature on the letter of gift. 61. In this circumstances, I am unable to refrain myself from

 relying on the settled principle enunciated in Vinubhai (supra)

 wherein Hon'ble Apex Court observed as follows:- 62. Regard being had to the aforesaid discussion, I find no

 reason to interfere with the order of further investigation in

 terms of particular facts and circumstances of this case. As a

 result, the revision application having no merit stands failed. 63. Accordingly, this revision application being CRR no. 1027

 of 2023 stands dismissed. 64. Pending applications, if any, stand disposed of

 accordingly. 65. All parties to this revisional application shall act on the

 server copy of this order duly downloaded from the official

 website of this Court. 66. Urgent Photostat certified copy of this order, if applied

 for, be supplied to the parties upon compliance with all

 requisite formalities. [BIBHAS RANJAN DE, J.]