Jayesh P. Khandwala HUF
 Proprietor : Zealous Trading Company,
 1, Alap Bungalows, Part-I,
 Near Mayurpankh Society, Satellite,
 Ahmedabad - 380 015. 2. Jayesh P. Khandwala
 1, Alap Bungalows, Part-I,
 Near Mayurpankh Society, Satellite,
 Ahmedabad - 380 015. ... Appellants

 Versus

Securities and Exchange Board of India
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No.C-4A, 'G' Block,
Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East),
Mumbai - 400 051. ... Respondent

Mr. Janak Dwarkadas, Senior Advocate with Mr. Somasekhar Sundaresan,
Mr. Paras Parekh and Ms. Delna Aga, Advocates for Appellants.

Mr. Kumar Desai, Advocate with Ms. Pratiksha Mody and Mr. Mobin Shaikh,
Advocates for the Respondent. Coram : P. K. Malhotra, Member
 S.S.N. Moorthy, Member

Per : P. K. Malhotra, Member

 This appeal is directed against the order dated October 26, 2010 passed by the

whole time member of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (for short the Board)

under Section 11 and 11B of Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (for

short the Act) prohibiting the appellants from buying, selling or dealing in the securities

market in any manner for a period of three months from the date of the order and further

directing appellant no.1 to disgorge unlawful gains of ` 4,04,20,658/- along with

interest of ` 1,21,26,197/-. In the event of non-payment of the said amount within the

stipulated period, the appellants are restrained for a further period of seven years from 2 accessing the securities market and buying, selling or dealing in securities in any

manner. 2. This case arises out of the initial public offering (IPO) scam that was unearthed

by the Board in the year 2005-06. Before we deal with the facts of the present case, let

us briefly state how this scam/fraud was perpetrated. On receipt of information

regarding alleged abuse and misuse of the IPO allotment process, the Board initiated a

probe. During preliminary analysis of buying, selling and dealing in the shares allotted

through IPOs of as many as 21 companies in the years 2003, 2004 and 2005, it

transpired that certain entities opened many demat accounts in fictitious/benami names

and these entities cornered/acquired shares of those companies allotted in the IPOs by

making large number of applications of small value so as to make them eligible for

allotment under the retail category. The strategy adopted was that subsequent to the

receipt of the IPO allotment, these fictitious/benami allottees transferred the shares to

their principals called the 'key operators' who controlled their accounts and who, in

turn, transferred most of the shares to the 'financiers' who had originally made available

funds for executing the game plan. In view of the then booming market, the financiers

then sold most of these shares on the first day of listing or soon thereafter thereby

making windfall gains of the price difference between the issue price and the listing/sale

price. 3. The appellants herein are said to be financiers. Appellant no.1 is a Hindu

undivided Family (HUF) of appellant No.2 who is proprietor of M/s. Zealous Trading

Company. The Board issued a show cause notice dated April 8, 2009 alleging that the

appellants had acquired/cornered shares in the IPOs of IDFC Limited (IDFC), Sasken

Communication Technologies Limited (Sasken) and Suzlon Energy Ltd. (Suzlon) by

making available finance to key operators and received corresponding shares and

refunds. Thereafter, a number of shares had been transferred to various entities like

Sheelu Lalwani and Jitendra Lalwani at issue price when the market price of the shares

was much higher. It is further alleged that the appellants routed the transaction through 3 the account of one Bhanuprasad Trivedi and ultimately received the ill-gotten gains into

their account. It is further alleged that the appellant managed to receive shares in the

three IPOs noted above which were meant for retail investors. It is alleged that the

appellants had prior understanding with key operators and employed fraudulent,

deceptive and manipulative practices in cornering the shares meant for retail investors

thereby violating Section 12A of the Act and regulations 3 and 4(1) of the Securities

and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices

relating to Securities Market) Regulations, 2003 (for short the Regulations). The

appellants are also said to have made unlawful gain of ` 4,04,20,658 and they were

called upon to show cause why action be not taken against them for the aforesaid

violation and why they should not be asked to disgorge the amount of illegal gains

made by them. 4. The appellants were granted personal hearing and they also filed detailed reply

dated July 24, 2009 denying the allegations. It was submitted by the appellant that they

had lent funds to Sugandh, Roopalben, Biren Kantilal Shah and Ketan Shah and

Company as a part of their routine business activity. They are engaged in the business

of extending finance and also trading in shares, securities and commodities. Their

lending as well as borrowing activities for the year 2003-04, 2004-05 and 2005-06 are

said to be in the range of 345 crores, 650 crores and 720 crores respectively. It was

further submitted by them that in the previous years, when there were no allegations of

any funding by the appellants, regular business transactions were undertaken with

various parties including those named above. According to the appellants, they had long

standing and continuous relationship with the above named entities for the purpose of

advancing of the funds as per the extant practice in the market. The appellants were not

aware about the end use of the funds extended by them to their clients. The shares and

the amount received by them were only by way of repayment of loans. The appellants

admitted that they accepted a part of their loan repayment by transfer of shares but 4 denied they were involved in any attempt to corner the shares meant for retail investors

or that they were privy to or involved in any scam as alleged by the Board. 5. On consideration of the material available on record, reply furnished by the

appellant and after affording them a personal hearing, the whole time member of the

Board, by the impugned order, did not accept plea of the appellants that they had lent

money to the above-named entities in the normal course of financing or that they were

not involved in cornering the shares in different IPOs that were meant for retail

investors. The whole time member came to the conclusion that the appellants had

manipulated the IPOs allotment process by providing finance to the entities named

above who, with that money, made applications in large number through

fictitious/benami accounts to corner the shares meant for retail investors. He, therefore,

came to the conclusion that the appellants had violated Section 12A of the Act and

regulations 3 and 4(1) of the Regulations. He also found that the appellants had made

unlawful gains of ` 4,04,20,658 to the detriment of the retail investors. A summary of

the transactions made by the appellants resulting in the said unlawful gain of

`4,04,20,658 is given in Table A' at page 3 of the impugned order, which is reproduced

hereunder for ease of reference. Table A : Summary of Transactions

IPO KO Amount (Rs.) Issue Details No. of Receipt of Shares and Refunds Disposal of Shares received Unlawful
 provided to Issue Retail Application Size Retail Allotment Size Application by Jayesh Gains (Rs.)
 KOs Price No. of Amount No. of Amount made Receipt of Shares Refund Transferred No. of shares Commission/
 Rs.) Shares (Rs.) Shares (Rs.) No. of Value at issue Amount to/through transferred Sale proceeds
 Shares price (Rs.) (Rs.)
 1 2 3=(6*9)= 4 5 6=(4*5) 7 8=(4*7) 9=(3/6) 10 11=(4*10) 12 13 14 15 16
 (11+12)
IDFC SEIPL 7,14,00,000 34 1,400 47,600 266 9,044 1,500 3,98,734 1,35,56,956 5,78,43,044 Jitendra 9,49,620 3,23,32,600 11,61,675
 Biren 4,80,65,000 47,600 1,010 2,05,086 69,72,924 4,03,75,000 +11,61,875
 Roopal 12,75,95,000 23,800 5,360* 3,45,800 1,17,57,200 7,01,22,800
 Roopal(Bhanu) 11,00,000 3,74,00,000 Bhanu 11,00,000 7,28,75,000 3,54,75,000
Sasken SEIPL 3,50,00,000 260 350 91,000 25 6,500 385 6,375 16,57,500 -- Bhanu 14,275 70,45,343 33,33,783
 Roopal 9,10,00,000 91,000 1,000 6,500 16,90,000 8,93,10,000
 Biren -- -- -- 1,400 3,64,000 -- *Rs.12,75,95,000 provided by Jayesh to Roopal was used for meeting 50% margin requirement @ Rs.23,800 for 5,360 applications while the balance came from Bharat Overseas Bank. 6 6. In view of these findings, the appellants have been prohibited from buying,

selling or dealing in securities or from accessing the securities market in any manner for

a period of three months from the date of the order in addition to the period during

which they remained out of the market pursuant to the interim order passed by the

Board. The appellant no.1 has also been directed to disgorge the unlawful gain of

`4,04,20,658 made by it along with interest of ` 1,21,26,197/- and in the event of non-

payment of the aforesaid amount, the appellants are restrained from accessing the

securities market for a further period of seven years without prejudice to Board's right

to enforce disgorgement. It is against this order of the whole time member that the

present appeal has been filed. 7. We have heard Mr. Janak Dwarkadas, Senior Advocate and Somasekhar

Sundaresan, Advocate for the appellants and Mr. Kumar Desai, Advocate for the

respondent-Board who have taken us through the records of the case. Learned counsel

for the appellants seriously disputed the findings arrived at by the whole time member

in the impugned order alleging that the order has been passed without application of

mind to the facts rendered by the appellants and also in violation of the principles of

natural justice. It was further submitted that the impugned order has not dealt with the

defence rendered by the appellants. The submissions made by the appellants in the

replies as set out at pages 387, 404, 421, 440 and 469 of the appeal paperbook have not

been considered or dealt with in the impugned order. The order, therefore, cannot be

said to be a reasoned one. It was further argued by the learned senior counsel for the

appellants that while arriving at its conclusion, the whole time member has relied on

certain observations made by this Tribunal in Appeal no. 197 of 2009 filed by

Bhanuprasad Trivedi (BT for short) who is said to be a front entity of the appellants. It

was submitted by him that the appellants had no opportunity to present their case in the

appeal filed by BT and any observations made in the case of BT cannot be relied upon

in arriving at conclusions against the appellants. The figures given in the table extracted 7 above were also seriously disputed by the learned counsel for the appellants stating that

the impugned order has proceeded on the basis that there need be no certainty in

demonstrating that the amount sought to be disgorged is indeed illegitimate gain. Mr.

Somasekhar Sundaresan, learned counsel for the appellants, further argued that the

whole time member has totally ignored the submissions of the appellants that it is

engaged in the business of extending finances and also is trading in shares, securities

and commodities. The details of financing activities of the appellants for the years

2003-04, 2004-05 and 2005-06 have been ignored and entries from the books of

accounts and bank statements have been used in a selective manner in arriving at the

conclusions. It was further submitted that the appellants had, in the course of business,

advanced a loan of ` 345.57 crores and procured loans of ` 345.67 crores in the year

2003-04, ` 654.79 crores and ` 660.03 crores in the year 2004-05 and ` 724.14 crores

and ` 716.19 crores in the year 2005-06 respectively while transacting with various

parties. It was submitted that the appellants had long standing and continuous

relationship with the clients for the purpose of advancing the funds and the transactions

were carried on the basis of mutual trust and confidence. The fact that there were no

formal documents entered into between the appellants and its clients for the funding

does not in any manner indicate that the making of applications by the clients in various

IPOs were on account of the appellants. The appellants had never faced any bad debts

in the entire history of its operations and therefore no requirement was felt by the

appellants to seek any formalization of the terms between the parties or for any

securities of the funds advanced. According to the appellant, the system was indeed

followed by various parties in the market at the relevant time. The appellants explained

their dealings with the clients and contended that they were not a financier to the

transactions as defined by the Board in its order dated April 27, 2006. The appellants

claimed that they were not aware of any irregularities on the part of the clients and the

impugned order has misconstrued the legitimate transaction between the appellants and

their clients. If there was any wrongdoing on the part of its clients, the appellants

cannot be held responsible for the same. It was further submitted that the impugned 8 order seeks to disgorge the amounts that have already been disgorged from other

persons who are alleged to be co-conspirators thereby ceasing to be disgorgement and

instead unjust enrichment of the respondent-board. Learned counsel for the appellants

took us through the relevant documents in respect of the financial transactions relating

to IDFC, Sasken and Suzlon IPOs and pointed out inconsistencies which, according to

the counsel, go to the root of the matter stating that the very foundation of the impugned

order i.e. table summarizing alleged illegitimate transactions is erroneous and serious

doubt raised about the veracity of the information contained therein. A note of

submissions has been filed by the learned counsel for the appellants as an 'aide

memoire' and as a supplement to the proceedings to navigate the issues that fall for

determination of the controversy involved in the case which has been taken on record. 8. Mr. Kumar Desai, learned counsel for the respondent-Board strongly supported

the findings arrived at in the impugned order stating that the appellants have not

disputed the receipt of the shares as listed in the table nor the manner in which the same

were transferred or sold nor the amount received on such transfers or sale as all these

amounts are reflected in the appellants' bank accounts and demat accounts. In para 5.6

of the memorandum of appeal, the appellants had in fact admitted not only that the

appellants had advanced monies to the key operators but also that the said amounts were

utilized by the key operators for making applications in various IPOs. He took us

through each of the transactions as stated in the table submitted with documents on

record and stated that the appellants were the ultimate beneficiary of the amounts shown

in the table which have been correctly and accurately concluded and are recoverable

from the appellants. With regard to the argument that the impugned order is not a

reasoned order or that the arguments advanced on behalf of the appellants have not been

considered, it was submitted that it was not necessary for the respondent-board to give

its decision on each and every submission made before it. The two replies furnished by

the appellants running into 65 pages and 141 pages respectively and written

submissions of 95 pages were duly considered and reasons recorded for the decision

arrived at by the Board. The important points raised by the appellants, both preliminary 9 as well as on merits, have been set out in the impugned order and separately dealt with.

Therefore, no prejudice is caused to the appellants. Learned counsel for the respondent

Board has also filed a brief of his arguments in the form of written submissions which

has been taken on record. 9. We have considered the rival submissions and also perused documents available

on record. With regard to the preliminary issue raised on behalf of the appellants that

the order passed by the Board is not a reasoned one and the arguments advanced by/on

behalf of the appellants have not been considered, we are inclined to agree with the

learned counsel for the Board that while passing the order, the Board is required to give

reasons for its decision but this does not mean that the reasons should be as elaborate as

a decision of a Court of Law. It is sufficient if, after considering the submissions made

by the parties, the Board gives a decision on the issues under its consideration supported

by the reasons for arriving at such a decision. The order must reflect that the

submissions made before the Board were duly considered for arriving at a decision and

the decision is supported with reasons. However, it is also important that if a point has

been raised which may impact the decision taken by the authority, such point should

also be dealt with while arriving at the decision. We will come to this aspect a little later

when we deal with the specific submissions which according to the appellants have not

been dealt with by the whole time member. 10. We cannot lose sight of the fact that this case cannot be viewed in isolation. It

has to be seen in the light of the material collected and investigations carried out by the

Board in respect of the IPO scam during the year 2003 to 2005. For the purposes of this

scam, the Board, vide its ad-interim ex parte order dated April 27, 2006, defined the

term 'financier' as under:- During the course of investigation the Board could trace the finances to the accounts of

the appellants. In respect of the financing transactions of IDFC and Sasken IPO, it

found that finances were provided by the appellants to the key operators through BT

and accordingly show cause notices were issued to him also. This Tribunal had an

occasion to deal with the case of BT also where allegation was that BT had cornered

shares in the IPOs of IDFC and Sasken while acting in concert with Roopalben Panchal

(key operator) and Jayesh Khandwala, appellant in this appeal, (Jayesh) with whom he

had prior understanding. It was alleged that BT facilitated the appellant to make ill-

gotten gains by routing the funds and shares received from key operator through his

accounts. The allegation in the case of BT was that Jayesh transferred ` 3.7 crores to

BT on 13.8.2005 and BT used this money to purchase 11 lac shares of IDFC from

Roopalben on the same day at the issue price of ` 34 per share. Roopalben, on receipt

of the money from BT in her bank account on 13.8.2005, transferred the amount to the

bank account of Jayesh on the same day. It was further alleged in the show cause notice

issued to BT that 11 lac shares of IDFC purchased by him from Roopalben were sold in

the market on August 16, 2005 through the broker for ` 7,28,75,000/- @ ` 66.25 per

share. The entire sale proceeds received by BT in his bank account on August 17, 2005

were transferred to the bank account of Jayesh on the same day. It was therefore

concluded that Jayesh was the ultimate beneficiary of the sale proceeds and that BT

acted as his front entity. Another charge in that show cause notice was that Jayesh

received 14,275 shares of Sasken from three key operators including Roopalben which

was transferred to BT on September 9, 2005 and September 14, 2005 and then said to

have been sold by BT in the market through the broker. BT is then said to have

transferred the sale proceeds from his account to Jayesh through a cheque. The appeal

(No. 197 of 2009) filed by BT against the order of the Board was dismissed by this

Tribunal by order dated July 5, 2010. The relevant portion of the order reads as under:- 11. This brings us to the IPO shares of Sasken. Here
again we have no doubt that the appellant played foul in
selling the shares received from Khandwala which clearly
shows that he was mixed up with him. It is not in dispute
that after receiving the shares of Sasken from three key
operators including Roopalben, Khandwala transferred on
September 9, 2005 and September 14, 2005, 13,550 and
725 shares respectively aggregating to 14,275 shares to the
appellant. It is the appellant's case that he purchased these
shares from Khandwala at the rate of Rs.300.40 per share
for a total consideration of Rs.42,88,210. The demat
account of the appellant shows that he received these shares
from Khandwala but there is not an iota of evidence on the
record to show that the appellant ever purchased these
shares. He has not produced bank account or any other
supporting document to show that consideration was paid
for these shares. His ipse dixit cannot be accepted. The
onus was on him to establish that he purchased the shares. In the absence of any evidence we cannot but hold that
these shares were transferred without consideration. Again,
the appellant sold these shares through the broker on
September 9, 2005 at the rate of Rs.493.54 per share for a
gross amount of Rs.70,45,343.75 even though by that date
he had received only 13,550 shares. This by itself is not an
illegality because short sales are permissible. However, the
interesting part of the story is that the broker transferred on
September 14, 2005 the gross amount of Rs.70,45,343.75
to the account of the appellant without deducting
brokerage, turnover tax and other transaction charges and
the appellant on receipt of the amount immediately on the
same day transferred the gross amount of sale proceeds to
Khandwala. A copy of the bank account of the appellant is
on the record. We cannot believe the version of the
appellant that the amount had been transferred towards the
repayment of the loan because the accounts have not been
produced. We are satisfied that in the absence of any other
cogent explanation, the appellant is resorting to the same
loan theory which has no basis. The transfer of Sasken
shares to the appellant and the subsequent sale by him and
remitting the amount to Khandwala is enough proof of the
fact that he was a front entity of Khandwala for selling the
cornered shares for making illegal gains. 12. In view of our findings recorded above, we have no
hesitation to hold that the appellant did not deal with the
shares of IDFC and Sasken in the ordinary course of
business in the secondary market but was acting in concert
with Roopalben and Khandwala in the IPO scam. We are in
agreement with the whole time member that the appellant
indulged in unfair trade practices in the securities market
and facilitated Khandwala to make ill-gotten gains and 15 thereby violated Section 12A of the Act and Regulations 3
 and 4 of the Regulations." It was strenuously argued by learned counsel for the appellants that the above order of

this Tribunal has no consequences because any observation made by the Tribunal in any

earlier case could only be in aid of the decision in that case and cannot be regarded as

having created a binding precedent. In BT's case, the appellants were not a party and

had no occasion to defend themselves. Therefore, any observations about the appellants

in that order may at best be regarded as obiter, or an observation in aid of the larger

order based on facts that then seemed apparent and by no stretch of imagination can

such observation be regarded as a legal pre-emption or prohibition of the dispensation

of justice in subsequent proceedings against third parties who were not party to the

earlier proceedings. The reliance placed by the whole time member in para 10.4 and

10.5 of the impugned order vitiates the order as the appellants had no opportunity to

present their case before the Tribunal when the appeal of BT was heard. 11. Learned counsel for the Board submitted that even if the said observations in

paragraphs 10.4 and 10.5 are not taken into consideration, the order passed by the Board

against the appellants would still stand as the alleged observations were merely

corroborative and the facts have been independently established against the appellants

as set out in paragraphs 18, 19, 20 and 30 of the show cause notice and in table 'A' read

with paragraphs 10.3 and 10.5 of the impugned order. It was further alleged that the

facts on the basis of which the Board had made the allegations and arrived at findings

against BT and the appellants are the same. The charge against the appellants is that

they had received shares in three IPOs meant for retail investors and had made ill-gotten

gains. No doubt, the appellants are financiers and have been providing finance to

various entities but that by itself is not enough to show that the appellants had not

provided finance for the transactions in question. The conduct of the appellants show

that they had acted in concert with key operator and BT and had provided finance in

respect of the transactions listed in the table reproduced above. Therefore, no fault can

be found with the order of disgorgement. 12. On the issue of disgorgement, the counsel on both sides were in agreement that

the disgorgement is the forced giving up of profits obtained by illegal or unethical acts.

It is the repayment of ill-gotten gains that is imposed on wrongdoer by the Courts. This

Tribunal in the case of Karvy Stock Broking Ltd. vs. Securities and Exchange Board of

India (Appeal No. 6 of 2007 decided on May 2, 2008) had summarized the position in

this regard as under: 13. We have examined the facts of the present case and considered the arguments of

learned counsel on both sides in the background of the position as stated above and are

of the view that there are certain glaring inconsistencies in the order and some important

submissions made by the appellant have not been taken note of by the whole time

member while passing the order and these go to the root of the matter. Some such

discrepancies are:- A copy of the order dated January 31, 2012 passed by the Board in the

 case of Roopalben Panchal (key operator) has been placed on record

 by learned counsel for the appellants and according to table on page 23

 of that order, it is stated that the appellant provided an amount of `

 7,87,50,000 to Roopalben Panchal for the said purpose. In response to

 this, learned counsel for the Board stated that it is a mistake in the

 order and the Board would take necessary steps in due course to

 correct the said error. It needs to be appreciated that the order against

 the appellant was passed as early as on October 26, 2010 and the order

 against Roopalben Panchal was passed on January 31, 2012. As stated

 above, disgorgement is a monetary equitable remedy that is designed

 to prevent a wrongdoer from unjustly enriching himself as a result of

 illegal conduct. Therefore, there has to be a certainty with regard to the

 amount of finance provided and the amount of illegal gains resulting

 therefrom. We are inclined to agree with the learned counsel of the

 appellants that such a wide disparity in quantum cannot be irrelevant

 for the purpose of alleging financing of transaction by the appellants to

 the key operator, more so, when the amount of disgorgement is being

 worked out on the basis of providing finance of ` 12,75,95,000. (ii) It was stated by the appellant that B.T. had shown the profits made by

 him from sale of 11 lac shares of IDFC in his income-tax return and

 has paid capital gains tax payable in respect thereof. This plea was also

 taken by the appellants in their reply at page 469 of the appeal

 paperbook. The whole time member, while passing the impugned

 order, has not dealt with this issue at all. This is an important issue

 which may have a bearing on the final decision that may be arrived at.

 Under similar circumstances, in another order in the case of Jayantilal

 Jitmal vs. SEBI (Appeal No. 5 of 2010 decided on 9.9.2010) referred

 to during the course of hearing, the appellant was held to be a 18 beneficial owner of the shares because he had reflected the total

 amount received in his books of account and paid tax thereon. If B.T.

 has shown the sale price of 11 lac shares in his books of account and

 paid income tax on the profits made on such sale of shares, how can

 the appellants be held to be the beneficial owners of these shares. Why

 can't their plea that they were only financiers of BT and not of the key

 operator be accepted is not clear to us. The whole time member has not

 recorded any findings to the effect that the appellants were aware about

 the IPO scam or the deal between the key operator and B.T. for

 financing of the IPO transactions. In the absence of any such findings,

 we fail to understand how financier of a financier can be held guilty

 when it is on record that the appellants are providing finance to BT and

 other entities not only in this transaction but in a lot of other

 transactions running to hundred crores. It is not denied that the

 appellants are in the business of financing and had been providing

 finance as noted in the earlier part of this order. The finance in this

 case was also provided only on August 13, 2005 whereas IPO of IDFC

 opened on July 15, 2005, closed on July 22, 2005 and allotment of

 shares was made on August 5, 2005. It is the Board's own case that the

 appellants provided finance to BT only on August 13, 2005. In that

 case, it requires examination as to how such a transaction can be

 treated as one for financing the IPO of IDFC. (iii)It was argued by the learned counsel for the Board that even if the

 observations made in paras 10.4 and 10.5 supporting the findings in

 the appellants' case on the basis of observations made by this Tribunal

 in the case of BT are ignored, the order can stand on its own. However,

 we are of the view that if the order is read as a whole, it gives an

 impression that while arriving at its conclusion, the observations made

 by this Tribunal in BT's case heavily weighed with the whole time 19 member. We are inclined to agree with the learned counsel for the

 appellants that any observation made by this Tribunal in the case of BT

 against the appellants, needs to be re-examined in the light of

 additional material that has been placed on record by the appellants in

 their case. (iv) There is nothing in the impugned order to show that the appellants

 provided finance to Biren for the Sasken IPO and yet 1400 shares of

 Sasken acquired from Biren have been taken into account while

 arriving at the amount of disgorgement. If no finance was provided by

 the appellants to Biren for the Sasken IPO and in the absence of any

 allegation against Biren for manipulating the Sasken IPO, how can the

 sale proceeds of 1400 shares be treated as illegitimate gain of the

 appellants for the purpose of disgorgement. The above are only illustrations of discrepancies that have been pointed out by the

appellants during the course of hearing. These illustrations go to the root of the matter

and decision thereon may have impact on the final view on the issue of financing of IPO

transactions and disgorgement. The whole time member has not dealt with these issues

in the impugned order. In the written submissions, the appellants have pointed out

certain other inconsistencies which were also pointed out in reply to the show cause

notice but have not been dealt with by the whole time member. As stated earlier, in the

case of disgorgement, only ill-gotten gains can be ordered to be disgorged and the

disgorgement amount should not exceed the total profits realized as a result of unlawful

activity. We are, therefore, of the considered view that the matter needs to be

reconsidered in the light of the inconsistencies noted above as well as those pointed out

by the appellants in response to the replies filed to the show cause notice and personal

hearing. In view of the foregoing discussions, we cannot but set aside the impugned order

which we hereby do and remand the matter to the Board for holding fresh proceedings

against the appellants after giving them an opportunity of hearing. It is made clear that

we have not expressed any view on any of the issues raised in the appeal which shall

remain open. Since the transactions relate to the year 2004 and 2005, we direct the

Board to conclude the proceedings expeditiously. No costs. Sd/- P. K. Malhotra
 Member

 Sd/- S.S.N. Moorthy
 Member

03.04.2012
Prepared & compared by-ddg