ORIGINAL JURISDICTION : Writ Petition No. 60 of 1969.
Petition under Art. 32 of the Constitution of India for	 the
enforcement of fundamental rights. Frank Anthony, B. Datta and J. B. Dadachanji, for the peti-
tioner. I. N. Shroff, for the respondents. The, Judgment of the Court was delivered by
Shakho	J. The petitioner Mohd. Faruk who carries on	 the
vocation of slaughtering bulls and bullocks at the Madar
Tekdi Slaughter-House at Jabalpur claims a declaration	that
the notification dated January 12, 1967 issued by	 the
Governor of Madhya Pradesh in exercise of	 the powers
conferred under sub-s. (3) of S. 430 of the Madhya Pradesh
Municipal Corporation Act 23 of 1956 Cancelling confirmation
of the bye-laws" made by the Jabalpur	Municipal Committee
for inspection and regulation of slaughter-houses "in so far
as the bye-laws relate to slaughter of bulls and bullocks" buffaloes, male and female, was reasonable and valid;	(ii)
that a	 total	ban on the slaughter of she-buffaloes or
breeding bulls	 or working bullocks (cattle	as well as
buffaloes), so long as they were capable of being used as
milch or draught cattle, was also reasonable-and valid	 and (iii) that a total ban on the slaughter of she-buffaloes,
bulls and bullocks (cattle or buffalo) after they ceased to
be capable of yielding milk or of breeding or	 working as
draught	 animals was not in the interests of	the general
public and was invalid. Attempts were made from time to time to circumvent the judg-
ment of this	Court in Mohd.	 Hanif	Quareshi 's case(").
After that judgment, Legislatures of the State of Bihar,
U.P. and Madhya Pradesh enacted the minimum age of animals
to be slaughtered. The Bihar Act prohibited slaughter of a
bull, bullock or shebuffalo unless the animal was over 25
years of age and had become useless.	Under the U.P.	 Act
slaughter of a bull or bullock was permitted only if it	 was
over 20 years of age and was permanently unfit. Under	 the
Madhya Pradesh Act slaughter of a bull, bullock or buffalo,
except upon a certificate issued by the competent authority,
was prohibited.	 The certificate could not be issued unless
the animal was over 20 years of age and was unfit for	work
or breeding. This Court held in Abdul Hakim Quraishi	 and
Others	v. The	 State	of Bihar (2) that the	ban on	 the
slaughter of bulls, bullocks and she-buffaloes below the age
of 20 or 25 years was not a reasonable restriction in	 the
interests of the general public and was void.	 The Court
observed that	a bull, bullock or buffalo did	 not remain
useful after it was 15 years old, and whatever little use it
may then have was	greatly	 offset	 by the economic
disadvantages of feeling and	 maintaining unserviceable
cattle.	 This Court also held that the additional condition
that the animal must, apart from being above 20 or 25 years
of age, be unfit was a further unreasonable restriction. On
that ground the relevant provisions in the Bihar, U.P.	 and
Madhya Pradesh Acts were declared invalid. The present case is apparently another attempt, though on a
restricted scale, to circumvent the judgment of this Court
in Mohd. Hanif Quareshi 's case(1)'. The bye-laws of	 the
Jabalpur Municipality	permitted slaughter of bulls	 at
bullocks. Alicence
(1) [1959] S.C.R. 629.			 (2) [1961] 2
S,C.F,. 61 0. had to be- obtained for that purpose. Slaughter of animals
in places outside the premises fixed by the Municipality was
prohibited by S. 257(3) of the Act, and sale of meat within
the area of the Municipality of the animals not	 slaughtered
in the premises fixed by the Municipality was	also
prohibited. Under the notification by which the bye-laws
were issued in 1948, bulls and bullocks could be slaughtered
in premises fixed for that purpose. But by the notification
dated January 12, 1967, confirmation of the bye-laws insofar
as they related to bulls and bullocks was cancelled.	 The
effect of that notification was to prohibit the slaughter of
bulls and bullocks within the	 Municipality of Jabalpur.
This cancellation of the confirmation of Bye-laws imposed a
direct	restriction upon the	fundamental right of	 the
petitioner under Art. 19(1)(g) of the Constitution.
In the'affidavit filed on behalf of the State of Madhya Pra-
desh two principal contentions were raised :-(1) the power
to rescind confirmation of the bye-laws cannot be challenged
by reference to Art. 14 or Art. 19 of the Constitution,
because	 the power vested in the Government to	confirm	 the
bye-laws carries with it the power to rescind	such
confirmation and (2) that since every person desiring to use
a slaughter-house had to apply for and obtain	 a licence,
which may be	refused, and if given	 was liable to be
withdrawn, no	person may insist that he shall be given a
licence to slaughter animals in a slaughter-house.
The power to issue bye-laws indisputably includes the power
to cancel or withdraw the bye-laws, but the validity of	 the
exercise of the power to issue and to cancel or withdraw the
bye--laws must be adjudged in the light of its impact	upon
the fundamental rights of persons affected thereby.	When
the validity of a law placing restriction upon the exercise
of fundamental rights in Art. 19(1) is challenged, the	onus
of proving to	 the satisfaction of the Court that	 the
restriction is	 reasonable lies upon	the State. A	 law
requiring that an act which is inherently dangerous, noxious
or injurious to public interest, health or safety or is
likely	to prove a nuisance to the community, shall be	done
under a permit or licence of an executive authority, it is
not per se unreasonable and no person may claim a licence or
permit to do that act as of right. Where the law providing
for grant of a-licence or a permit confers a discretion upon
an administrative authority regulated by rules or principles
expressed or implied, and exercisable in consonance	with
rules of natural justice. it will be presumed to impose a
reasonable restriction.	 Where, however, power is entrusted
to an administrative agency to grant or withold a permit or
licence	 in its uncontrolled discretion, the law ex facie ,
infringes the	 fundamental right under Art. 19(1). Imposition of restric-on the exercise of a fundamental right
may be in the form 161 of control or	 prohibition, but when	the exercise of a
fundamental right is prohibited, the burden of proving	that
a total ban on the exercise of the right alone	 may ensure
the maintenance of the general public interest lies heavily
upon the State. This Court in Narendra Kumar and Others v. The Union of
India and Others (1) held that the word "restriction" in
Arts. 19(5) and 19(6) of the Constitution includes cases of
"prohibition" also; that where -a restriction	reaches	 the
stage of total restraint of rights special care has to be
taken by the Court to see that the test of reasonableness is
satisfied by considering the question in the background of
the facts and circumstances under which the order was made,
taking	into account the nature of the evil that was sought
to be remedied by such law, the harm caused to individual
citizens by the proposed remedy, the beneficial effect
reasonably expected to result to the general	public,	 and
whether	 the restraint caused by the law was more than	what
was necessary in the interests of the general public.
The impugned notification-, though technically	 within	 the
competence of the State Government, directly infringes	 the
fundamental right of	the petitioner	guaranteed by Art.
19(1)(g) , and may be upheld only if it be established	that
it seeks to impose reasonable restrictions in the interests
of the general public and a less drastic restriction	will
not ensure the interest of the general public.	 The Court
must in considering the validity of the impugned	 law
imposing a prohibition on the carrying on of a business or
profession, attempt an evaluation of its	direct	 and
immediate impact upon the fundamental rights of the citizens
affected thereby and the larger public interest sought to be
ensured	 in the light of the object sought to be achieved,
the necessity	to restrict the citizen's freedom,	 the
inherent pernicious nature of the act	 prohibited or	 its
capacity or tendency to be harmful to the general public,
the possibility of achieving the object by imposing a	less
drastic	 restraint, and in the absence of	 exceptional
situations such as the prevalence of a state of emergency-
national or local--or the necessity to	 maintain essential
supplies, or the necessity to stop activities inherently
dangerous, the	 existence of a machinery to	satisfy	 the
administrative	authority that	 no case for imposing	 the
restriction is made out or that a less drastic	 restriction
may ensure the object intended to be achieved.
The sentiments	 of a section of the people may be hurt by
permiting slaughter of bulls	 and bullocks	in premises
maintained by a local authority. But a prohibition imposed
on the	 exercise of a fundamental right to carry on an
occupation, trade or	business will not be	regarded as
reasonable, if if is imposed not in
(1) [1960]2 S.C.R. 375, 162 the interest of the general public, but merely	 to respect
the susceptibilities and sentiments of a section of	 the
people whose way of life, belief or thought is not the	same
as that of the claimant. The notification issued by the State Government must, there-
fore, he declared ultra vires as infringing Art. 19 (1)	 (g) of the Constitution. It is unnecessary to consider the validity of s. 430 of	 the
Act which was sought to be challenged in the petition or to
consider whether there has been any infringement of	 the
guarantee of the equality clause of the Constitution.
The petitioner will be entitled to his costs in this Court.
R.K.P.S. Petition allowed.