Koushal Kumar Mallah @ Kaushal Kumar @
 Kosal Kumar .......... Petitioner. -Versus- 1. The State of Jharkhand 2. Laxmi Devi
 .......... Opp. Parties. ----- CORAM : HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE RAJESH SHANKAR ----- 1. The petitioner is apprehending his arrest in a case registered
 under Sections 406 , 420 , 384 , 467 , 504 and 506 of the Indian
 Penal Code. 2. Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the petitioner
 has been falsely implicated in the present case and has not
 committed any offence as alleged. As per the allegation, the
 petitioner, who happened to be the accountant in the medical
 shop of the informant/opposite party no.2, had misappropriate
 Rs.80,000/- and had subsequently taken Rs.60,000/- as loan
 for treatment of his father. He further misappropriated Rs.2.00
 Lakh of the said medical shop, as he was looking after the
 accounts of the said shop. When the petitioner was asked by
 the informant to return said amount as well as mobile phone,
 which was given to him to get it repaired, he started
 blackmailing her by saying that he would make the
 photographs and videos available in the said mobile phone
 viral. 3. It is further submitted that, in fact, the petitioner has not
 misappropriated any amount as alleged. On the request of the
 opposite party no.2, he had transferred Rs.4.72 lakh (in total)
 to the bank account of the informant, details of which have
 been mentioned in paragraph no.8 of the present anticipatory
 bail application. The opposite party no.2 returned Rs.1.50 lakh
 to the petitioner and also paid Rs.1.40 lakh towards salary for
 seven months at the rate of Rs.20,000/- per month and
 Rs.3.22 lakh is still lying with the opposite party no.2. The
 petitioner also issued legal notice to the opposite party no.2 on
 13th April, 2024 demanding balance payment from her,
 however, no reply was given to the said notice. The petitioner
 has no criminal antecedent, as has been stated in paragraph
 no.18 of the present anticipatory bail application. He, however,
 undertakes to co-operate in ongoing investigation of the case.
 Hence, he may be given the privilege of anticipatory bail. 4. Learned counsel for the opposite party no.2 opposes the
 petitioner's prayer for anticipatory bail and submits that it is
 totally unbelievable that the petitioner would give any amount
 to the informant, as he himself has admitted that he was an
 accountant in the medical shop of the informant. The petitioner
 having misappropriate the money available with the said
 medical shop does not deserve the privilege of anticipatory
 bail. 5. Having heard learned counsel for the parties and considering
 the materials available on record, this Court is inclined to
 enlarge the petitioner, above named, on anticipatory bail.
 Accordingly, the petitioner, in event of his arrest or surrender
 before the court below within three weeks from today, shall be
 released on bail on furnishing bail bond of Rs.20,000/- (Rupees
 Twenty Thousand) with two sureties of the like amount, each,
 to the satisfaction of learned Chief Judicial Magistrate, Dumka,
 in connection with Dumka (T) P.S. Case no.77 of 2024, subject
 to the condition as laid down under Section 482(2) of the
 B.N.S.S., 2023. (Rajesh Shankar, J.)
Sanjay/ -2- A.B.A. No.4926 of 2024