2025:HHC:11018

 IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH, SHIMLA

 Cr. MP (M) Nos. 2903 and 2904 of 2024
 Reserved on: 27.3.2025 and 1.4.2025
 Date of Decision: 25.04.2025. 1. Cr.MP(M) No. 2903 of 2024
 Ashok Kumar ...Petitioner
 Versus
 State of Himachal Pradesh ...Respondent 2. Cr.MP(M) No. 2904 of 2024

 Aakash Mahajan ...Petitioner

 Versus

 State of Himachal Pradesh ...Respondent

 Coram
 Hon'ble Mr Justice Rakesh Kainthla, Judge.
 Whether approved for reporting?1 Yes. For the Petitioner(s): Mr. K.B. Khajuria, Advocate, in
 Cr.MP(M) No. 2903 of 2024 and
 M/s P.K. Verma and K.B. Khajuria,
 Advocates, in Cr.MP(M) No. 2904
 of 2024. For the Respondent(s): Mr. Prashant Sen, Deputy Advocate
 General, in Cr.MP(M) Nos. 2903 of
 2024 and Mr. Lokender Kutlehria,
 Additional Advocate General, in
 Cr.MP(M) No. 2904 of 2024. Whether reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the judgment? Yes. 2025:HHC:11018

Rakesh Kainthla, Judge

 The petitioners have filed the present petitions

seeking regular bail. It has been asserted that the petitioners

were arrested vide FIR No. 103 of 2024 dated 9 th September 2024

for the commission of offences punishable under sections 20 , 25 and 29 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances

(NDPS) Act, registered at Police Station, Chowari District

Chamba, HP. The petitioners are innocent and have not

committed any offence. They have roots in society, and there is

no chance of their absconding. They would abide by the terms

and conditions, which the Court may impose. Hence, the

petitions. 2. The petitions are opposed by filing a status report,

asserting that the police party was on patrolling duty on 9 th

September 2024. They found a vehicle bearing registration

number HP-38D-3555 parked near the juice factory at about

9:50 PM. Two people were sitting inside the vehicle. The police

demanded the vehicle's documents. The driver took out his

driving license and the vehicle's registration certificate from the

dashboard of the vehicle and hurriedly closed the dashboard. The driver identified himself as Ashok Kumar, and the person 3 2025:HHC:11018

sitting beside him identified himself as Akash Mahajan. The

police checked the vehicle in the presence of an independent

witness and found a carry bag containing 418 capsules of

Proxyvon. The police weighed the capsules, and their weight was

found to be 255 grams. They seized the capsules and arrested the

occupants of the vehicle. The capsules were sent for analysis to

FSL, and according to the report, the capsules contained

Tramadol. The weight of the capsules was 255.816 grams, and

the weight of the powder was 210.678 grams. The police filed the

charge sheet after completing the investigation. The matter was

listed on 12th March 2025 for recording the statements of

prosecution witnesses. An FIR number 80/2012 has been

registered against the petitioner, Ashok Kumar. The quantity of

the drugs found in the possession of the petitioners is

commercial. The petitioners would commit a similar offence if

released on bail. Hence, it was requested that the present

petitions be dismissed. 3. I have heard Mr. KB Khajuria and Mr PK Verma,

learned counsel for the petitioners, Mr. Lokender Kutlehria,

learned Additional Advocate General and Mr Prashant Sen,

learned Deputy Advocate General for the respondent/State. 2025:HHC:11018 4. Mr. K.B. Khajuria, learned counsel for the petitioners,

submitted that the petitioners are innocent and they were falsely

implicated. The quantity of powder found in the capsules was

intermediate, and the rigours of Section 37 of the NDPS Act do

not apply to the present case. The petitioners would abide by the

terms and conditions, which the Court may impose. Hence, he

prayed that the present petitions be allowed and the petitioners

be released on bail. He relied upon the judgment of the Kerala

High Court in Akash versus State of Kerala 2021:KER:20062 in

support of his submission. Mr. P. K. Verma learned counsel also

adopted these submissions. 5. Mr. Lokender Kutlehria, learned Additional Advocate

General for the respondent/State, submitted that the total

weight of the capsules is to be considered while determining the

quantity of the drugs. The petitioners were found in possession

of a commercial quantity of Tramadol. The rigours of Section 37 of the NDPS Act apply to the present case. The petitioners are

unable to satisfy the twin conditions laid down under Section 37 of the NDPS Act. Hence, he prayed that the present petitions be

dismissed. Mr. Prashant Sen learned Deputy Advocate General

adopted these submissions. 2025:HHC:11018 6. I have given considerable thought to the submissions

made at the bar and have gone through the records carefully. 7. The parameters for granting bail were considered by

the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Ajwar v. Waseem (2024) 10 SCC

768: 2024 SCC OnLine SC 974, wherein it was observed as under 8. This position was reiterated in Ramratan v. State of

M.P. , 2024 SCC OnLine SC 3068, wherein it was observed :- (Emphasis supplied) 8 2025:HHC:11018 9. This position was reiterated in Shabeen Ahmed versus

State of U.P. , 2025 SCC Online SC 479. 10. The present petition has to be decided as per the

parameters laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court. 11. A perusal of the status report shows that the police

recovered the capsules from the vehicle bearing registration

number HP-38D-3555. The petitioners were present in the

vehicle at the time of the recovery of the capsules. In Madan Lal

versus State of H.P. (2003) 7 SCC 465: 2003 SCC (Cri) 1664: 2003

SCC OnLineSC 874, the contraband was recovered from a vehicle,

and it was held that all the occupants of the vehicle would be in

conscious possession of the contraband. It was observed: 12. The petitioners were present in the vehicle from

which recovery was effected; hence, the petitioners were prima

facie in possession of the capsules. 13. It was submitted that the weight of the powder has to

be considered while determining the quantity. This submission

is not acceptable. It was laid down by this Court in Reeta v. State

of H.P. , 2020 SCC OnLine HP 2793, that the total weight of the

capsules has to be considered while determining the quantity. It

was observed: 2025:HHC:11018

 (IV) Challenge to Notification dated 18.11.2009
 adding "Note 4" to the Notification dated
 19.10.2001, fails, and it is observed and held that
 the same is not ultra vires to the Scheme and the
 relevant provisions of the NDPS Act . Consequently,
 writ petitions and Civil Appeal No. 5218/2017
 challenging the aforesaid notification stand
 dismissed." (Emphasis supplied) 14. This judgment is binding upon this Court, and the

submission that the weight of the powder is to be considered is

not acceptable. 15. The judgment of Kerala High Court in Akash (supra)

deals with LSD and holds that the weight of the blotting paper is

not to be considered while determining the quantity. This

question was considered by a Division Bench of the Bombay

High Court in H.S. Arun Kumar v. State of Goa, 2022 SCC OnLine

Bom 4696, and it was held that since the blotting paper is used

while consuming the drugs, therefore, its weight has to be

considered while determining the quantity. It was further held

that since capsules are consumed, the weight of gelatine cannot

be excluded. It was observed: 2025:HHC:11018 84. Besides, with the utmost respect, we find that the
conclusion about the blotter impregnated with L.S.D. not
being a mixture or about the blotter not being a neutral
substance is not backed by any reasoning. Moreover, the
conclusion, with respect, does not advert the scheme of
the NDPS Act , both before and after its amendment and
before or after the issue of Notification dated 19.10.2001
and the notes below the same. Therefore, based on such a
conclusion, we think the binding precedent in Hira
Singh (supra) could not have been distinguished or held
as inapplicable in the context of L.S.D. on a blotter. 85. Most of the contentions now urged by the Counsel for
the accused persons, including the argument about Hira
Singh (supra) being restricted only to Heroin, were
considered and ably answered in Anuj Keshwani (supra).
We endorse the reasoning. The most relevant discussion
is in paragraphs 29 and 30, and the same is quoted below
for the convenience of reference: 86. Most decisions or the material referred to also speak
about the blotter being made up of extra absorbent
material, including ingredients like rice, cotton, and flax
seeds. Such blotters absorb LSD in their tiny perforations,
separable only by dipping them into a liquid or placing
them on the tongue. The blotter becomes an integral part
of the mixture of the L.S.D.-impregnated blotter.
Moreover, blotters made up of rice, flax seeds, etc., are
consumable. They qualify as neutral substances in
ordinary parlance, just as chalk or talcum powder would,
in the context of the drugs with which they are mixed.
The ruling in Hira Singh (supra) is quite clear on the
status of such neutral substances. The NDPS Act also
refers to psychotropic substances, including preparations
of one or more psychotropic substances. Preparation
includes a mixture in whatever state. 87. Thus, the text, precedents and the literature on the
market or street practices in which L.S.D. is stored,
transported, concealed, sold, purchased, consumed or
otherwise dealt with support the discussion and
construction in Anuj Keshwani (supra).
xxx 112. In addition to the statutory provisions and schemes,
reference is necessary to the Statement of Objects and
Reasons of the Amendment Act 16 of 2014. This provides
that the 2001 Amendment seeks to clarify the legislative
intent to take the entire quantity of the drug seized in a
case for determining the quantum of punishment and not
the pure drug content. Thus, this is where the statutory
provisions and the legislative intent align. Accordingly,
this matter has no literal or liberal interpretation issue as
was attempted to be raised. 2025:HHC:11018 113. For all the above reasons, we hold that a blotter paper
 forms an integral part of the L.S.D. (drug) when put on it
 for consumption and, as such, the weight of the blotter
 paper containing L.S.D. will have to be considered for
 determining a small or commercial quantity of the
 offending drug under the NDPS Act, 1985 . Further, we
 also hold that the blotter paper that carries the drug
 (L.S.D. drops), which facilitates its consumption as a
 whole, is a preparation, mixture, or neutral substance
 within the meaning of the NDPS Act, 1985 . 16. Kerala High Court relied upon the earlier judgment of

the Bombay High Court in Hitesh Hemant Malhotra v. State of

Maharashtra , 2020 SCC OnLine Bom 3581, which was overruled in

H.S. Arun Kumar (supra), therefore, it is difficult to follow the

judgment of Kerala High Court. 17. The status report shows that the total weight of the

capsules was found to be 255.816 grams, which is a commercial

quantity, and the rigours of Section 37 of the NDPS Act apply to

the present case. 18. Section 37 of the ND& PS Act provides that in an

offence involving commercial quantity, the Court should be

satisfied that the accused is not guilty of the commission of an

offence and is not likely to commit any offence while on bail. Section 37 of the NDPS Act reads as follows: 19. This Section was interpreted by the Hon'ble Supreme

Court in Union of India Versus Niyazuddin & Another (2018) 13 SCC

738, and it was held that in the absence of the satisfaction that

the accused is not guilty of an offence and he is not likely to

commit an offence while on bail, he cannot be released on bail. It was observed: 8. The accusation in the present case is about the fourth
 factor, namely, commercial quantity. Be that as it may,
 once the Public Prosecutor opposes the application for
 bail to a person accused of the enumerated offences under Section 37 of the NDPS Act, in case the court proposes to
 grant bail to such a person, two conditions are to be
 mandatorily satisfied in addition to the normal
 requirements under the provisions of the Cr.P.C . or any
 other enactment. (1) The court must be satisfied that there are
 reasonable grounds for believing that the person is
 not guilty of such an offence; (2) that person is not likely to commit any offence
 while on bail." 20. This position was reiterated in State of Kerala Versus

Rajesh, AIR 2020 SC 721, wherein it was held: economic consequences and health hazards
 which would accompany trafficking illegally
 in dangerous drugs, the court should
 implement the law in the spirit with which
 Parliament, after due deliberation, has
 amended." 20. The scheme of Section 37 reveals that the exercise of
power to grant bail is not only subject to the limitations
contained under Section 439 of the CrPC but is also
subject to the limitation placed by Section 37 , which
commences with the non-obstante clause. The operative
part of the said section is in the negative form,
prescribing the enlargement of bail to any person accused
of the commission of an offence under the Act unless two
conditions are satisfied. The first condition is that the
prosecution must be given an opportunity to oppose the
application, and the second is that the Court must be
satisfied that there are reasonable grounds for believing
that he is not guilty of such an offence. If either of these
two conditions is not satisfied, the ban on granting bail
operates. 21. The expression "reasonable grounds" means
something more than prima facie grounds. It
contemplates substantial probable causes for believing
that the accused is not guilty of the alleged offence. The
reasonable belief contemplated in the provision requires
the existence of such facts and circumstances as are
sufficient in themselves to justify satisfaction that the 22 2025:HHC:11018

 accused is not guilty of the alleged offence. In the case on
 hand, the High Court seems to have completely
 overlooked the underlying object of Section 37 that in
 addition to the limitations provided under the CrPC , or
 any other law for the time being in force, regulating the
 grant of bail, its liberal approach in the matter of bail
 under the NDPS Act is indeed uncalled for." 21. A similar view was taken in Union of India v. Mohd . Nawaz Khan, (2021) 10 SCC 100: (2021) 3 SCC (Cri) 721: 2021 SCC

OnLine SC 1237 wherein it was observed at page 110: 22. The standard prescribed for the grant of bail is
 "reasonable ground to believe" that the person
 is not guilty of the offence. Interpreting the standard of
 "reasonable grounds to believe", a two-judge Bench of
 this Court in Shiv Shanker Kesari [Union of India v. Shiv
 Shanker Kesari , (2007) 7 SCC 798: (2007) 3 SCC (Cri) 505],
 held that : (SCC pp. 801-02, paras 7-8 & 10-11)
 "7. The expression used in Section 37(1)(b)(ii) is
 "reasonable grounds". The expression means
 something more than prima facie grounds. It connotes
 substantial probable causes for believing that the
 accused is not guilty of the offence charged, and this
 reasonable belief contemplated, in turn, points to the
 existence of such facts and circumstances as are 23 2025:HHC:11018

sufficient in themselves to justify the recording of
satisfaction that the accused is not guilty of the offence
charged. 8. The word "reasonable" has in law the prima facie
meaning of reasonable in regard to those
circumstances of which the actor, called on to act
reasonably, knows or ought to know. It is difficult
to give an exact definition of the word
"reasonable". '7. ... Stroud's Judicial Dictionary, 4th Edn., p. 2258
states that it would be unreasonable to expect an
exact definition of the word "reasonable". Reason
varies in its conclusions according to the
idiosyncrasy of the individual and the times and
circumstances in which he thinks. The reasoning
which built up the old scholastic logic sounds now
like the jingling of a child's toy.'
[See MCD v. Jagan Nath Ashok Kumar [MCD v. Jagan
Nath Ashok Kumar, (1987) 4 SCC 497], SCC p. 504,
para 7 and Gujarat Water Supply & Sewerage
Board v. Unique Erectors (Gujarat) (P) Ltd. [Gujarat
Water Supply & Sewerage Board v. Unique Erectors
(Gujarat) (P) Ltd., (1989) 1 SCC 532] ]
 *** 10. The word "reasonable" signifies "in accordance
with reason". In the ultimate analysis, it is a
question of fact whether a particular act is
reasonable or not, depends on the circumstances in
a given situation. (See Municipal Corpn. of Greater
Mumbai v. Kamla Mills Ltd. [Municipal Corpn. of
Greater Mumbai v. Kamla Mills Ltd. (2003) 6 SCC 315] 11. The court, while considering the application for
bail with reference to Section 37 of the Act, is not
called upon to record a finding of not guilty. It is for
the limited purpose, essentially confined to the
question of releasing the accused on bail, that the
court is called upon to see if there are reasonable 24 2025:HHC:11018

 grounds for believing that the accused is not guilty
 and records its satisfaction about the existence of
 such grounds. But the court has not to consider the
 matter as if it is pronouncing a judgment of
 acquittal and recording a finding of not guilty." (emphasis supplied) 23. Based on the above precedent, the test which the High
 Court and this Court are required to apply while granting
 bail is whether there are reasonable grounds to believe
 that the accused has not committed an offence and
 whether he is likely to commit any offence while on bail.
 Given the seriousness of offences punishable under the NDPS Act and in order to curb the menace of drug
 trafficking in the country, stringent parameters for the
 grant of bail under the NDPS Act have been prescribed." 22. It was held in Union of India v. Ajay Kumar Singh , 2023

SCC OnLine SC 346, that the bail cannot be granted without

complying with the requirements of Section 37 of the NDPS Act. It was observed: and (ii) the court is satisfied that there are reasonable
 grounds for believing that he is not guilty of such an
 offence and that he is not likely to commit any such
 offence while on bail. 15. For the sake of convenience Section 37(1) is
 reproduced hereinbelow:-- 16. In view of the above provisions, it is implicit that no
 person accused of an offence involving trade in a
 commercial quantity of narcotics is liable to be released
 on bail unless the court is satisfied that there are
 reasonable grounds for believing that he is not guilty of
 such an offence and that he is not likely to commit any
 offence while on bail. 23. It was held in State of Meghalaya v. Lalrintluanga

Sailo, 2024 SCC OnLine SC 1751, that the grant of bail without

considering Section 37 of the NDPS Act is impermissible. It was

observed: 6. While considering the cases under the NDPS Act , one
cannot be oblivious of the objects and reasons for
bringing the said enactment after repealing the then
existing laws relating to Narcotic drugs. The object and
reasons given in the acts itself reads thus:-- In the decision in Collector of Customs, New
Delhi v. Ahmadalieva Nodira (2004) 3 SCC 549, the three-
judge bench of this Court considered the provisions under Section 37(1)(b) as also 37(1)(b)(ii) of the NDPS Act , with
regard to the expression "reasonable grounds" used
therein. This Court held that it means something more
than the prima facie grounds and that it contemplates
substantial and probable causes for believing that the
accused is not guilty of the alleged offence. Furthermore,
it was held that the reasonable belief contemplated in the
provision would require the existence of such facts and
circumstances as are sufficient in themselves to justify
satisfaction that the accused is not guilty of the alleged
offence. As relates to the twin conditions under Section 37(1)(b) (ii) of the NDPS Act , viz., that, firstly, there are 27 2025:HHC:11018

 reasonable grounds for believing that the accused is not
 guilty of such offence and, secondly, he is not likely to
 commit any offence while on bail it was held therein that
 they are cumulative and not alternative. Satisfaction of
 the existence of those twin conditions had to be based on
 the 'reasonable grounds', as referred to above . 7. In the decision in State of Kerala v. Rajesh (2020) 12 SCC
 122, after reiterating the broad parameters laid down by this Court to be followed while considering a bail
 application moved by an accused involved in offences
 under the NDPS Act , in paragraph 18 thereof this Court
 held that the scheme of Section 37 of the NDPS Act would
 reveal that the exercise of power to grant bail in such
 cases is not only subject to the limitations contained
 under Section 439 of the Code of Criminal Procedure but
 also subject to the limitation placed by Section 37(1)(b) (ii), NDPS Act . Further, it was held that in case one of the
 two conditions thereunder is not satisfied, the ban for
 granting bail would operate. 8. Thus, the provisions under Section 37(1)(b)(ii) of
 the NDPS Act and the decisions referred supra reveal the
 consistent view of this Court that while considering the
 bail application made by an accused involved in an offence
 under NDPS Act a liberal approach ignoring the mandate
 under Section 37 of the NDPS Act is impermissible.
 Recording a finding mandated under Section 37 of
 the NDPS Act, which is a sine qua non for granting bail to
 an accused under the NDPS Act , cannot be avoided while
 passing orders on such applications.". 24. In the present case, there is sufficient material on

record to show the involvement of the petitioners in the

commission of the crime. 25. There is no material on record to show that the

petitioners would not commit a similar offence in case of their 28 2025:HHC:11018

release on bail. Therefore, the twin conditions laid down in Section 37 of the NDPS Act are not satisfied in the present case. 26. In view of the above, the petitioners are not entitled

to bail; hence, the present petitions fail and the same are

dismissed. 27. The observations made hereinabove are regarding

the disposal of this petition and will have no bearing whatsoever

on the case's merits. (Rakesh Kainthla)
 Judge
 25th April, 2025
 (Chander)