These cross appeals are directed against the order dated 09-01-2023
passed by the Ld.CIT(A)-52, Mumbai [„Ld.CIT(A)‟] and they relate to the
Assessment Year (AY.)1992-93. 2. The facts relating to the case are set out in brief. This is second
round of proceedings. The assessee company belongs to Harshad Mehta 2 ITA Nos. 453 & 1125/Mum/2023
 Growmore Research and Assets Management

Group and is a notified entity under the Special Court (Trial of Offences
Relating to Transactions in Securities) Act, 1992 due to stock market
scam. The assessee company was promoted by Shri Harshad S Mehta and
Shri Ashwin S Mehta. It is engaged in the business of purchase and sale
of shares and securities. Due to the problems faced by the group on
account of outburst of the scam, the assessee company could not file
return of income for the year under consideration. Hence, the AO
completed the assessment to the best of his judgement u/s 144 of the Act
determining the total income at Rs.165.50 crores. 3. The assessee challenged the same by filing appeal before the Ld.
CIT(A). It is pertinent to note that the assessee submitted the books of
accounts before the Ld.CIT(A) with the petition to admit them as additional
evidence. He, however, did not admit it and disposed of the appeal grating
partial relief to the assessee, vide his order dated 27-03-2003. Hence, both
the assessee and revenue challenged the above said order of Ld.CIT(A) by
filing appeals before the ITAT. The Tribunal, vide its order dated 28-04-
2006 disposed of the appeal of the assessee, wherein it restored all the
matters contested before it to the file of the Ld.CIT(A) with the direction to
consider the books of accounts and take decision on merits afresh in
accordance with law. Subsequently, the appeal filed by the revenue was
also restored to the file of the Ld.CIT(A) by the Tribunal, vide its order
dated 20-12-2006, with identical directions. 4. Consequent to the orders passed by the Tribunal in the first round,
the Ld.CIT(A) has passed the impugned order on 09-01-2023 again
granting partial relief. It is pertinent to note that, during second round of
appellate proceedings, the Ld CIT(A) has called for remand reports from the
assessing officer and the assessee was given opportunity by the AO during
the course of remand proceedings. We notice that the Ld.CIT(A) has also 3 ITA Nos. 453 & 1125/Mum/2023
 Growmore Research and Assets Management

confronted the remand report with the assessee and also considered the
replies given by it against the remand reports. Accordingly, the impugned
order dated 09-01-2023 came to be passed by the Ld.CIT(A) after
considering the explanations furnished by the assessee, remand reports
furnished by the AO and the replies of the assessee to the remand reports.
Since the Ld. CIT(A) has partly allowed the appeal of the assessee, both the
parties have filed these appeals on the issues decided against each of
them. 5. Some of the grounds urged by the parties are inter related, i.e.,where
the Ld CIT(A) had granted partial relief, both the parties have come on
appeal. Those grounds are being adjudicated together. Another fact to be
noted down is that Shri Harshad S Mehta, Shri Ashwin S Mehta and Smt
Jyoti H Mehta were carrying on share broking business under the name
M/s Harshad S Mehta (hereinafter referred to as "HSM"), M/s Ashwin S
Mehta (hereinafter referred to as "ASM") and M/s J H Mehta (hereinafter
referred to as "JHM") respectively. The assessee has transacted its
business mostly with these three concerns. 6. We shall first take up the appeal filed by the Revenue. 7. The Revenue has raised five grounds. As stated earlier, interrelated
grounds are adjudicated together. 8. The Ground No.1 urged by the revenue is related to the relief
granted by the Ld.CIT(A) in respect of unexplained investment made in
purchase of shares of Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL). 8.1. The facts relating thereto are discussed in brief. The AO noticed that
the assessee has sold 150000 shares of RIL in the month of June, 1991.
With regard to the corresponding purchases, the AO noticed that the
assessee has purchased 69,450 shares in the month of April, 1991. ITA Nos. 453 & 1125/Mum/2023
 Growmore Research and Assets Management

According to the AO, the assessee did not prove the purchase of balance
quantity of 80,550 shares. Accordingly, the AO treated it as unexplained
investment and assessed a sum of Rs.1,23,13,150/-. Similarly, the AO had
initially held that sources of 90,000 shares of M/s Grasim Industries Ltd
were not explained and accordingly made addition towards unexplained
investment. However, in the remand proceedings, the AO found that the
corresponding purchases have been made and accordingly restricted the
addition to the profit on sale of shares of M/s Grasim Industries Ltd
amounting to Rs.16,15,000/-. The Ld.CIT(A) also, accordingly, sustained
the addition in respect of M/s Grasim Industries Ltd to that extent and the
assessee has also accepted the same. 8.2. With regard to unexplained investment of 80,550 shares of RIL, the
assessee submitted the ledger account containing quantity details of
purchases and sales of shares of above said company before the Ld.CIT(A),
who has also extracted the same at pages 21 and 22 of his order. The
main contention of the assessee was that it was holding 1,35,100 shares of
RIL as at the beginning of the year and the above cited 80,550 shares were
sold out of the opening stock of shares. The Ld.CIT(A) also found the same
to be correct and accordingly deleted the addition relating to unexplained
investment amounting to Rs.1,23,13,150/- in the shares of RIL.
Accordingly, he sustained the addition of Rs.44,79,662/- relating to profit
on sale of shares of RIL. Thus, the net relief granted by Ld.CIT(A) worked
out to Rs.78,33,488/-, (Rs.1,23,13,150/- (-) Rs.44,79,662/-). The revenue
is contesting this decision of Ld CIT(A) rendered on this issue. 8.3. We heard the parties on this issue and perused the record. We
noticed that the Ld.CIT(A) has extracted the details of shares of RIL held by
the assessee at pages 21 and 22 of Ld CIT(A)‟s order. A perusal of the
same would show that the assessee was having 1,35,100 shares of RIL as 5 ITA Nos. 453 & 1125/Mum/2023
 Growmore Research and Assets Management

opening stock on 01-04-1991. Besides the above, there was continuous
purchase and sale of shares of that company throughout the year. When
the assessee sold 1,50,000 shares, the assessee was having 2,42,300
shares on its hand (which included the opening stock also). We notice that
the AO did not recognize the fact of availability of the opening stock of
shares of RIL, but the Ld.CIT(A) has considered the same and accordingly
granted relief, i.e., he has accepted the 80,550 shares have been sold out
of opening stock of shares of RIL. Though the revenue has challenged the
said decision, yet it could not prove that the assessee was not having
opening stock of shares of RIL as mentioned above. The Revenue could not
furnish any material to contradict the findings given by Ld CIT(A).We
noticed that the Ld.CIT(A) has sustained addition to the extent of profit
earned on sale of above shares and the assessee has also accepted the
same. Accordingly, under these set of facts, we are of the view that the
order passed by Ld.CIT(A) does not call for any interference. Accordingly,
we uphold the same. 9. The Ground No.2urged by the revenue and Ground No.2urged by
the assesseeare related to the addition of unexplained investment.
The AO made addition of unexplained investment of Rs.12,97,69,663/-.
The Ld.CIT(A) sustained addition to the extent of Rs.8,99,80,563/- and
granted relief in respect of remaining addition. The Revenue is challenging
the relief granted, while the assessee is challenging the addition sustained. 9.1. The AO called for details of shares held by the assessee from various
companies. Besides the above, the AO also collected information from the
Custodian appointed under the Special Courts Act after the break out of
Scam. During the course of search operations, the revenue had seized
contract notes relating to the assessee. On the basisof those Contract
notes, the AO prepared the list of shares that should be available with the 6 ITA Nos. 453 & 1125/Mum/2023
 Growmore Research and Assets Management

assessee. Then the AO compared the said list with the information
received from various companies and the Custodian. On such comparison
the AO noticed difference in the value of sharesat Rs.12,21,47,963/- and
Rs.76,21,700/- respectively. Accordingly, the AO assessed the aggregate
amount of Rs.12,97,69,663/- as unexplained investment. 9.2. The assessee explained the difference by producing contract notes
that were not considered by the AO. Certain contract notes were filed
before the AO and also before the Ld.CIT(A) along with the appeal forms
filed before him. Upon examination of these details, the Ld CIT(A) granted
partial relief as under:- ITA Nos. 453 & 1125/Mum/2023
 Growmore Research and Assets Management

Accordingly, the Ld CIT(A) granted relief of Rs.3,97,89,100 (Rs,27,45,000/-
(+) Rs.3,46,99,100/- (+) Rs.23,45,000/-). As noticed earlier, the Ld.CIT(A)
did not accept the contract notes furnished before him along with the
appeal documents on the reasoning that there is no way to verify those
contract notes. The Ld.CIT(A) also rejected the claim of bonus shares
received from ITC Ltd. Accordingly, he confirmed the remaining amount of
addition of Rs.8,99,80,563/-. 9.3. We heard the parties on this issue and perused the record. The
Revenue is contesting the relief granted by the Ld.CIT(A). However, with
regard to the relief granted by the Ld.CIT(A), we notice that - Accordingly, he gave relief in respect of this addition. (c) the Ltd CIT(A) noticed that the 7000 shares of Brooke Bond
 Ltd was purchased by the assessee on 02-04-1992 falling in
 the succeeding year, where as, the AO had made the addition
 in this year. Accordingly, the Ld CIT(A) granted relief in
 respect of this addition. ITA Nos. 453 & 1125/Mum/2023
 Growmore Research and Assets Management

Accordingly, we notice that the Ld.CIT(A) has granted relief on the basis of
materials/material facts. Before us, the revenue could not controvert all
these factual aspects considered by the Ld.CIT(A) for granting the relief.
Unless the revenue could show any infirmity on the above said factual
aspects, we are of the view that we may not be in a position to interfere
with his decision to grant relief. Accordingly, we confirm the above said
reliefs granted by the Ld.CIT(A). 9.4. The assessee is challenging the addition of Rs.8,99,80,563/-
confirmed by the Ld.CIT(A). We noticed earlier that the AO has determined
the unexplained investment in the shares on the basis of letters received
from the Companies and Custodian. The Ld A.R submitted that the
assessing officer has not supplied the copy of documents/letters, which
were the basis for making the addition. The following additionshave been
made on the basis of documents not confronted with theassessee:- The Ld A.R submitted that the AO has not supplied the materials on the
basis of which above addition was made by him, even though it had
requested the AO several times to supply copies of the documents. He
contended that the AO could not have made the above said decision on the
basis of materials collected behind the back of the assessee. He submitted
that identical addition made in the hands of the members of same group
on the basis of material not confronted with the respective assessees has
been deleted by the Tribunal. ITA Nos. 453 & 1125/Mum/2023
 Growmore Research and Assets Management

9.5. The Ld D.R, on the contrary, submitted that the assessee could not
reconcile the investments as per the data collected by the AO from
companies and Custodian. Hence, the AO has treated them as
unexplained investment in the hands of the assessee. 9.6. It may be a fact that the assessee could not reconcile the difference
noticed by the AO in respect of above said investments. However, the
contention that the assessing officer did not furnish copies of the
documents, which formed the basis of addition, to the assessee. It is well
settled principle of law that the AO could not make any addition on the
basis of materials collected behind the back of the assessee, unless he
confront them with the AO. We notice that Co-ordinate Bench has taken
identical view in the case of Pratima Hitesh Mehta (ITA No.416 &
1180/Mum/2023 dated 26-10-2023). The Ld A.R also furnished copies of
orders passed in other family members of the group, wherein also identical
view has been taken. Accordingly, we hold that the AO could not have
made addition on the basis of materials, which were not supplied to the
assessee and the Ld.CIT(A) was not justified in confirming the addition.
Accordingly, we modify the order passed by the Ld.CIT(A) in respect of the
above said companies and direct the AO to delete the addition of
Rs.5,45,99,050/-. 9.7. The AO had made addition of Rs.3,00,97,813/- in respect of
difference in the quantity of shares of RIL. According to AO, the assessee
was having 9,40,500 shares only, while the above said company has
reported holding of 10,09,295 shares. The first contention of the assessee
is that RIL has reported shareholding as on 07-06-1992, while the last
date of the year under consideration was 31-03-1992. Hence, the AO
could not have based his decision on the basis of data of different date.
The next contention of the assessee is that the AO did not take into 10 ITA Nos. 453 & 1125/Mum/2023
 Growmore Research and Assets Management

account opening balance of stock of 1,35,100 shares available with the
assessee as on 01-04-1991. We noticed earlier that the Ld CIT(A) has
extracted the details of purchase and sale of shares of RIL in pages 21 and
22 of his order, as per which the assessee was having 12,25,150 shares as
on 31-03-1992. We noticed that the quantity of shares available with the
assessee as at the year end was more than the quantity of 10,09,295/-
considered by the AO for making this addition. 9.8. We heard the parties on this addition. We noticed earlier that the Ld.
CIT(A) had deleted the addition towards unexplained investment of 80,550
shares accepting the Quantity ledger account of RIL, which was extracted
by him in pages 21 and 22 of his order. We have also upheld the same.
The Ld.CIT(A) himself has noted down the opening quantity of 1,35,100
shares therein. Further, as per the said quantity details, the assessee was
having 12,25,150 shares as on 31-03-1992, which was more than that
considered by the AO for making this addition. Under these set of facts,
we are of the view that the question of unexplained investment in the
shares of RIL does not arise and accordingly, the AO was not correct in
computing unexplained investment in shares of RIL. Accordingly, we set
aside the order passed by Ld CIT(A) in respect of this addition and direct
the AO to delete the same. 9.9. The AO made addition of Rs.51,70,000/- in respect of shares of
Colgate Palmolive shares. This addition pertained to 9,400 and 8.050
shares of above said company noticed by the AO. It is the submission of
the assessee that the above said shares were purchased through the
brokerage firm M/s Ashwin S Mehta on 22-01-1992 and they were duly
accounted for in the books of the assessee. It is submitted that the
relevant contract notes could not be filed before the AO and hence the
assessee furnished them before the Ld.CIT(A) along with appeal papers. ITA Nos. 453 & 1125/Mum/2023
 Growmore Research and Assets Management

We noticed earlier that the Ld.CIT(A) did not admit them on the reasoning
that the same could not be verified. 9.10. We heard the parties on this issue and perused the record. We
noticed earlier that the ITAT, in the earlier round, had directed the Ld.
CIT(A) to decide the issue afresh by considering the books of accounts of
the assessee. It appears that the Ld CIT(A) did not refer to the books of
accounts in respect of this addition. We also notice that the Ld CIT(A) has
also not rejected the books of accounts. It is stated that the impugned
purchases of 9,400 and 8,050 shares have been duly recorded in the
books of accounts and they are also supported by the contract notes.
Accordingly, we are of the view that the Ld CIT(A) was not justified in
deciding the issue against the assessee without verifying the relevant
materials.Accordingly, we set aside the order passed by the Ld.CIT(A) in
respect of this addition. Since the relevant contract notes and the ledger
account were not verified by the tax authorities, we restore this issue for
the limited purpose of verifying them. Accordingly, we set aside the order
passed by the Ld.CIT(A) in respect of this investment and restore the same
to the file of the AO with the direction to verify the relevant contract notes
and also ledger account. After satisfying himself, the AO may delete this
addition. 9.11. The last item of unexplained investment was the addition of
Rs.1,06,700/- in respect of shares of NBS Industries. It is the submission
of the assessee that no such company is in existence. It is also contended
that the AO seems to have adopted the market rate as on 31.3.1992, while
the unexplained investment has to be computed on the basis of rate
prevailing as on the date of actual purchase. 9.12. We heard the parties on this issue and perused the record. It is the
contention of the assessee that there is nocompany exists in the name of 12 ITA Nos. 453 & 1125/Mum/2023
 Growmore Research and Assets Management

NBS Industries. In that case, it is not discernible as to how the AO
determined the value of investments that too, on the basis of market price
as on 31-03-1992. Hence, we are of the view that there may be error in
mentioning the name of the company. Since no detail was produced by the
revenue also, we deem it proper to restore this addition to the file of the AO
with the direction to furnish the material relating to the addition of NBS
Industries Ltd to the assessee. After getting explanation from the assessee,
the AO may take appropriate decision in accordance with law. 9.13. The order passed by the Ld.CIT(A) on this issue would stand
modified according to our decision rendered in the earlier paragraphs. 10. The Ground No.3 urged by the revenue relates to the relief granted
by the Ld.CIT(A) in respect of capital gain arising on sale of shares of
TISCO Ltd. 10.1. The AO noticed that the assessee has sold 56000 shares of TISCO
Ltd on 08-08-1991 for a consideration of Rs.1,30,48,000/-. When
questioned about the purchases, the assessee furnished contract notes for
purchase of 10,000 shares and another 46,600 shares of TISCO Ltd from
M/s JHM and M/s ASM for an aggregate amount of Rs.1,19,70,000/-.
The AO accepted the details of purchases. Accordingly, he computed short
term capital gain of Rs.10,78,000/- (Rs.1,30,48,000 (-) Rs.1,19,70,000)
and assessed the same as income in this year. 10.2. According to the assessee, the profit from sale of TISCO shares
was lower than that assessed by the AO. Before the Ld.CIT(A), the
assessee furnished charts relating to sale of TISCO shares. It was
submitted that, during the year under consideration, the assessee has sold
95,500 shares of this company in total and made a profit of Rs.4,27,575/-
only. Since the details of workings were given by the assessee along with 13 ITA Nos. 453 & 1125/Mum/2023
 Growmore Research and Assets Management

the evidences, the Ld CIT(A) accepted it. Accordingly, he sustained the
addition to the extent of Rs.4,27,575/- only and deleted the balance
amount of addition of Rs.6,50,425/-. The Revenue is aggrieved. 10.3. We heard the parties on this issue and perused the record. We
notice that the AO has made this addition on the basis of selective
information, while the Ld.CIT(A) granted relief on the basis of complete
information. There should not be any dispute that the determination of
profit on the basis of incomplete and selective information would result in
incorrect results. We notice that the first appellate authority has
considered all transactions of purchase and sale of shares of TISCO Ltd
made during this year. Before us, the Revenue could not furnish any
material to contradict the factual aspects considered by Ld CIT(A).
Accordingly, we confirm the order passed by Ld CIT(A) on this issue. 11. The Ground No.4urged by the Revenuerelates to the relief granted
in respect of addition of Rs.2,64,08,219/- on account of interest on 17%
NTPC Bonds. 11.1. The AO noticed that the assessee had purchased 17% NTPC Bonds
for a value of Rs.81 crores and a Bank Receipt (BR) was delivered to the
assessee. The purchase consideration was paid by M/s HSM on behalf of
the assessee. The relevant BR was handed over by the assessee to
National Housing Bank (NHB). This security was a matter of dispute
between the assessee and NHB. The said dispute was examined by the
Hon‟ble Special Court in the application No.280 of 1993 filed by the
assessee. The Hon‟ble Special Court accepted the plea of the assessee and
accordingly the above said bonds were registered in the name of the
assessee. It was also paid interest from 22-01-1992 onwards.
Accordingly, the AO computed accrued interest from 22-01-1992 to 31-03-
1992 at Rs.2,64,08,219/- and assessed the same. ITA Nos. 453 & 1125/Mum/2023
 Growmore Research and Assets Management

11.2. Before the Ld.CIT(A), the assessee relied upon the decision rendered
by the ITAT in the assessee‟s own case in ITA No.259/M/2019 dated 09-
04-2021 relating to AY 1996-97. It was submitted that the AO had made
identical addition in that year also in respect of interest accrued on NTPC
bonds. However, as per subsequent developments that took place, the
assessee lost its ownership rights. It was explained that State Bank of
India filed a petition before Hon‟ble Supreme Court of India with the prayer
that the securities handed over to NHB be declared as the property of State
Bank of India. The said prayer was accepted by the Hon‟ble Supreme
Court. The Tribunal also noticed the fact that the custodian has repaid
the interest received on the above said bonds on behalf of the assessee to
State Bank of India. On the basis of these facts, the ITAT held that the
assessee cannot be considered to be owner of NTPC Bonds and hence the
question of assessing accrued interest will not arise. Accordingly, the
Tribunal deleted the addition of interest income in AY 1996-97. Following
the said order, the Ld.CIT(A) deleted the addition of Rs.2,64,08,219/-
made in the hands of the assessee during the year under consideration.
The revenue is aggrieved. 11.3. We heard the parties and perused the record. We notice that the
factual aspects relating to the purchase of NTPC bonds have been
explained by the Co-ordinate Bench in the assessee‟s own case in AY
1996-97. It has been held that the assessee cannot be considered to be
the owner of NTPC bonds in view of the order passed by Hon‟ble Supreme
Court. When theassessee is not considered to be the owner of NTPC bonds
as per the decision of Hon‟ble Supreme Court, then the question of
assessing accrued interest income in this year out of the said bonds will
not arise. Accordingly, in the facts discussed above, we hold that the Ld.
CIT(A) was justified in deleting the addition. ITA Nos. 453 & 1125/Mum/2023
 Growmore Research and Assets Management 12. The Ground No.5urged by the Revenueand the Ground No.15
urged by the assessee relate to the disallowance of expenses. 12.1. The AO had examined various expenses claimed by the assessee and
disallowed aggregate amount of Rs.88,15,198/- and allowed a sum of
Rs.95,51.042/-. 12.2. The Ld.CIT(A) noticed that the ITAT had considered identical
disallowances made by the AO in AY 1991-92 in ITA No.504/Mum/2019,
wherein it had sustained a portion of disallowance on adhoc basis by
adopting certain percentage in respect of each of the expenses.
Accordingly, the Ld.CIT(A) granted partial relief on the basis of order
passed by ITAT in AY 1991-92. Both parties are aggrieved. 12.3. It is the submission of the assessee that the Ld CIT(A) has
committed error in adopting the adhoc percentage determined by the ITAT
in AY 1991-92. The assessee has furnished a chart in this regard. The Ld.
D.R, on the contrary, contended that the disallowance of only a portion of
expenses on adhoc basis is not justified, since it is the responsibility of the
assessee to prove the expenses. 12.4. We heard the parties on this issue and perused the record. We
notice that the Co-ordinate Bench has already taken a view on an identical
disallowances made in AY 1991-92 and the Ld.CIT(A) has followed the
same. Hence, we are of the view that the methodology adopted by Ld
CIT(A) cannot be interfered with. However, it is the contention of the
assessee that the adhoc percentage of disallowance adopted by Ld CIT(A)
against certain expenses is not in accordance with the decision rendered
by ITAT in 1991-92. Since it is a matter of verification, we modify the
order passed by the Ld.CIT(A) and restore the same to the file of the AO
with the direction to compute the disallowances of various expenses as per 16 ITA Nos. 453 & 1125/Mum/2023
 Growmore Research and Assets Management

the adhoc percentage determined in the decision rendered by ITAT in the
assesee‟s own case in AY 1991-92 (referred supra). 13. We shall now take up the appeal filed by the assessee. In the
original grounds of appeal filed by the assessee, it has raised 19 grounds.
Thereafter, the assessee, vide its letter dated June 17, 2024 has modified
grounds no.11 and 13. The assessee has also raised an additional ground,
vide its letter filed on 23-02-2024. The Ld A.R did not press ground Nos.
1, 3, 4, 7. Accordingly, these grounds are dismissed as not pressed.
Ground No.19 is general in nature. We shall proceed to adjudicate the
remaining grounds. 14. The ground No. 2 urged by the assessee has already been disposed
of along with the grounds contested by the revenue on the very same
addition. 15. The Ground no.5 urged by the assessee is related to the addition of
Rs. 17.35 crores made by the AO on account of un-explained investment.
During the course of search proceedings conducted at the Madras Office of
the assessee on 19-06-1992, certain loose documents were seized. One of
the documents contained the portfolio valuation of investments on 06-12-
1991 at Rs. 12.36 crores. Another document showed the valuation of
some other shares at Rs. 13.49 lakhs. Similar type of documents
pertaining to the New Delhi office containing the details of portfolio was
seized from the residence of Harshad S. Mehta. This document indicated
investment of Rs. 4.86 crores, whose market value was shown at Rs. 10.35
crores. All these documents were considered as belonging to the assessee
herein by the AO. Thus the aggregate value of investments noted down in
the above said documents was Rs. 17.35 crores. ITA Nos. 453 & 1125/Mum/2023
 Growmore Research and Assets Management

15.1. Before the AO, the assessee filed letter dt. 14-02-1995 submitting
therein that the investments noted in these documents are reflected in the
books of three brokerage firms, namely, M/s. HSM, M/s. ASM and M/s.
JHMat their offices located in Madras and Delhi. It was submitted that
these investments belong to others and these documents were prepared for
the purpose of monitoring the performance of the shares purchased by the
respective owners. However, the AO did not accept the above said
explanations and accordingly made addition of Rs. 17.35 crores as un-
explained investment u/s.69 of the Act. 15.2. It appears that identical addition made by the AO in AY 1991-92
had been deleted by Ld CIT(A) in that year. However, in the first round of
proceedings, the Ld.CIT(A) took the view that the facts prevailing in this
year is distinguishable from that of AY 1991-92. Accordingly, he did not
follow the decision rendered by him in AY 1991-92 and had confirmed the
addition made by the AO. Following the same, in the present proceedings
also, the Ld.CIT(A) confirmed the addition made by the AO. 15.3. The Ld.AR reiterated the contention that the assessee was merely
supervising the transactions of purchase and sale of shares belonging to
various associate entities, which were given advice on the basis of
research. He submitted that the shares noted down in the documents do
not belong to the assessee. He submitted that the AOhas made this
addition u/s 69 of the Act, on the basis of loose documents found during
the course of search without brining any other credible material to show
that these are unaccounted investments belong to the assessee. The
Ld.AR reiterated that these documents only depicted portfolio valuation of
shares held by others. He submitted that an identical addition was made
in the immediately preceding assessment year, namely, AY. 1991-92 on
the basis of similar documents and the said addition has been deleted by 18 ITA Nos. 453 & 1125/Mum/2023
 Growmore Research and Assets Management

the Tribunal vide its order dt. 30-03-2021 passed in ITA No. 1196 &
504/Mum/2019. 15.4. The Ld.AR submitted that the Ld.CIT(A) has followed the decision
rendered by the predecessor in the first round, wherein he had tried to
distinguish the decision rendered by the Ld.CIT(A) in AY.1991-92.
However, he submitted that the said distinction is not factually correct.
The contentionsmade by the assessee in its written submission in this
regard are extracted below: 15.5 In order to support the contention that there is no difference in
facts between AY 1991-92 and this year, the Ld.AR submitted that 3715
shares of M/s.ACC Ltd noted down by the AO in the AY.1991-92 is also
appearing in the document relied on by the AO in AY.1992-93. Similarly,
some of the shares continued to appear in both the years as shown in the
following chart prepared by the assessee:- The Ld.AR cited the following examples to show that those shares belong
to others:- belongs to Shri Harshad S. Mehta who purchased it through
 Virendra Saigal & Co. (page No. 405 of PB). (iii) The list of shares prepared on other days are also available in the
 seized documents. In fact, the lists prepared on other days are
 accompanied by the reconciliation statement which shows the
 allocation of shares to other entities. For example, Page no.378 of
 Paper book is seized paper listing the shares as on 13.8.1991. The
 allocation of the said shares are available in another seized paper which
 is on page No.380. The reconciliation statement clearly shows that
 some of the shares have been transacted into by several other entities.
 This fact also proves that the presumption entertained by the AO is not
 correct. ITA Nos. 453 & 1125/Mum/2023
 Growmore Research and Assets Management (iv) Most importantly, while passing the assessment order in the case
 of Shri Harshad S. Mehta for A.Y. 1992-93, the A.O. himself has
 gathered the information about the transactions undertaken by Shri
 Harshad S. Mehta. He has referred to the above transactions in the
 annexure to the assessment order at page Nos. 422, 423, 427 and 428
 of PB No. 3. (v) It has been already established herein above that merely the word
 'GRAM', appearing in the title, do not mean that the ownership of the
 shares is that of the assessee. The Ld.AR further submitted that the brokerage firms of the group have
confirmed that the shares listed in the seized papers either belonged to
them or to their clients, as the case may be. However, the same has not
been disproved by the AO. 15.8. The Ld.AR summarized his arguments as under: Accordingly, it was contended that the shares noted down in the document
cannot be considered to belong to the assessee, merely on the basis of a
portfolio valuation report. In support of this contentions, the assessee also
cited certain examples like, transactions undertaken for other family
members; the details of shares being brought forward from earlier years
etc. In our view, there is merit in the contentions of the assessee. We
notice thatthe Search team did not unearth any physical share certificates
mentioned in the document. Further the transactions of purchase and sale
of shares are usually undertaken through share brokers in the stock 23 ITA Nos. 453 & 1125/Mum/2023
 Growmore Research and Assets Management

exchange. Those transactions are supported by the broker notes. We
notice that, no document to show the purchase of these shares was found
during the course of search. No document to show the corresponding
money transaction was found.In our view, all these factors would support
the claim of the assessee. 15.11 Another important legal contention raised is that the addition u/s
69 of the Act could be made only "if the assessee has made investments
which are not recorded in the books of account", which would mean that
there should be some credible material to show that the assessee has
made investments. When the assessee denies making of any investment,
then the onus will be placed upon the AO to show that the assessee has
made investments outside the books. We notice that the AO did not bring
any material on record to show that the assessee has made unaccounted
investments, except a loose document found during the course of search.
We noticed that the stock market scam unearthed at that point of time has
shook the Country and all the assets of the assessee‟s group have been
taken over by the custodian, meaning thereby, all the details of
investments are now available with the Custodian. We notice that the AO
had also collected the details of investments from the custodian and has
also made additions in respect of unexplained investments on the basis of
information received so received. However, the AO did not establish on the
basis of said information that the investments found in the seized
documents were in fact available in the name of the assessee and they
were not unaccounted. On the contrary, we notice that the assessee has
furnished various instances to show that the said investments did belong
to others. 15.12 We notice that the AO had made identical addition in AY 1991-92
also on the basis of similar seized document and the co-ordinate bench, 24 ITA Nos. 453 & 1125/Mum/2023
 Growmore Research and Assets Management

vide its order dated 30-03-2021 passed in ITA No.1196 & 504/M/2019
has deleted the addition, after giving a finding that the said investments
belong to others and the said fact has also been confirmed by the brokers
M/s HSM, M/s ASM and M/s JHM. We noticed that the Ld CIT(A) has
followed the decision rendered by his predecessor in the first round.
However, the assessee has pointed out that the Ld CIT(A), in the first
round, had incorrectly appreciated thedecision rendered in AY 1991-92,
wherein identical addition was deleted. Be that as it may, we notice that
the Tribunal has considered an identical issue and has deleted the
additionin AY 1991-92 accepting that the said investments do not belong
to the assessee. Accordingly, in the absence of any evidence to show that
the relevant share certificates were available and they remained
unaccounted, we are of the view that the AO could not have made the
addition u/s 69 of the Act on the basis of a loose document. Accordingly,
we set aside the order passed by Ld CIT(A) on this issue and direct the AO
to delete this addition. 16. The Ground no.6 urged by the assessee relates to the addition of
unexplained investment of Rs.23.06 crores in PSU Bonds. The AO collected
information from Public Sector Undertakings about the investments made
by the assessee. It was noticed that the assessee has purchased following
PSU bonds from them during the year relevant to AY 1992-93:- However, the Ld CIT(A) took the view that the assessee is shifting its
stands in offering proper explanations and accordingly took the view that
the additional evidences cannot be admitted. The Ld CIT(A) further
noticed that IRFC bonds to the tune of Rs.28.00 crores has been held to
be belonging to SBI by Hon‟ble Supreme Court. Accordingly, the Ld CIT(A)
granted relief of Rs.28.00 crores. With regard to the claim of transaction of
sale of bonds, the ld CIT(A) referred to the Bhav copy published by BSE
and noticed that last transaction in IRFC Bond has taken place on the
floor of BSE on 30-03-1990 only. Accordingly, the Ld CIT(A) took the view
that the claim of sale of bonds has not been proved with evidences.
Accordingly, he confirmed addition of balance amount of Rs.23.06 crores.
The assessee is aggrieved. We notice that the revenue is not contesting the
relief of Rs.28.00 crores granted by Ld CIT(A) and his decision in granting
relief has attained finality. 16.3 We heard the parties and perused the record. With regard to the
comparison of Bhav copy of BSE, which has also been extracted by Ld
CIT(A) at page 46 of his order, we notice that the said Bhav copy pertained
to "Debentures" and not to the "Bonds". The impugned addition is related
to purchase of "bonds". Hence the Ld CIT(A) was not correct in referring to
Bhav Copy pertaining to the debentures. 16.4 The main contention of the assessee is that all the PSU bonds have
been purchased by the assessee on credit from the broking firm M/s HSM
only. It is submitted that the above said broking firm, in turn, has
purchased the bonds from the market. Accordingly, it was submitted that
all the transactions of purchase/sale were back to back transactions. It
was also submitted that the payments for purchase of bonds were made by
M/s HSM to the sellers of the bond. It was submitted that the assessee 27 ITA Nos. 453 & 1125/Mum/2023
 Growmore Research and Assets Management

was having running account with M/s HSM with transactions of both
purchases and sales. Hence specific paymentswere not made at the time of
purchase of PSU Bonds. The assessee furnished details for entire
investment of Rs.51.06 crores as under:- Growmore Leasing and Investments Ltd. on the same day, i.e. 26.09.1991.
This transaction has been verified and accepted by the A.O. while passing
the assessment order u/s. 143(3) r.w.s. 147 r.w.s. 254 of the Act in the case
of M/s. Growmore Leasing and Investments Ltd. for A.Y. 1992-93 on
28.12.2006. (page no. 631, 636 of PB)

Acquisition of 9% NHPC Bonds of FV Rs. 56.50 lakhs

The assessee has purchased NHPC bonds of FV Rs. 56.50 Lakhs through
M/s. Harshad S. Mehta on 25.09.1991. The said purchase of Bonds of FV
Rs.56.50 Lakhs is supported by the following documents. a. Debit Note with Cost Memo dated 25.09.1991 issued by M/s.
 Harshad S. Mehta reflecting purchase of Bonds of F.V. Rs. 56.50
 Lakhs by the assessee. (page no. 645, 646 of PB)

 b. Ledger of M/s. Harshad S. Mehta in the books of the assessee.
 (page No. 563, 574 of PB)

 c. Ledger of the assessee in the books of M/s. Harshad S. Mehta.
 (page No. 585 of PB)

 d. Ledger of investment in PSU Bonds / Securities A/c in the books of
 the assessee. (page no. 586 of PB)

 e. Affidavit of Shri Harshad S. Mehta. (page no. 590 of PB)

M/s. Harshad S. Mehta in turn had purchased these bonds of FV Rs.
56.50Lakhs from M/s. ANZ Grindlays Bank PLC on the same day, i.e.
25.09.1991. This is supported by the following documents. a. Contract Note dated 25.09.1991 issued by M/s. Harshad S. Mehta
 to M/s. ANZ Grindlays Bank PLC. in respect of purchase of 9% NHPC
 Bonds of FV Rs. 56.50 Lakhs. (page no. 647 of PB)

 b. Relevant Deal Slip extracted from the seized computer data
 pertaining to the aforesaid transaction. (page No. 648 of PB)

 c. Ledger of M/s. ANZ Grindlays Bank PLC in the books of M/s..
 Harshad S. Mehta reflecting the purchase of the Bonds and payment
 for the same from the bank. (page no. 649, 652, 653 of PB)

 d. Submissions of the A.O. vide letter dated 17.07.2009 in the case of
 Late Shri Harshad S. Mehta for A.Y. 1992-93 filed before the CIT(A) 29 ITA Nos. 453 & 1125/Mum/2023
 Growmore Research and Assets Management

 along with the relevant extract of Deal File reflecting the above
 transaction. (page No. 665 of PB)

Acquisition of 9% NHPC Bonds of FV Rs. 50 lakhs

The assessee has purchased NHPC Bonds of FV Rs. 50 Lakhs through M/s.
Harshad S. Mehta on 25.09.1991. The said purchase of Bonds of FV Rs. 50
Lakhs is supported by the following documents: (page No. 563, 568 of PB)

 d. Ledger of the assessee in the books of M/s. Harshad S. Mehta.
 (page No. 585 of PB)

 e. Ledger of investment in PSU Bonds / Securities A/c in the books of
 the assessee. (page No. 586 of PB)

 f. Affidavit of Shri Harshad S. Mehta. (page no. 590 of PB)

M/s. Shri Harshad S. Mehta in turn had purchased these Bonds of FV Rs.
15 Crores from SBI Capital Markets Ltd. (Rs. 10 crores), Banque Indosuez
(Rs. 3 crores) and Hindalco Industries Ltd. (Rs. 4 crores) for delivery on the
same day i.e. 26.06.1991 out of which the aforesaid bonds of FV Rs. 15
crores were purchased on behalf of the assessee. This is supported by the
following documents: 16.5 The Ld A.R also submitted that the AO has made addition on the
basis of information received from PSUs, but did not supply the same to
the assessee, though the assessee had asked for the details several times. ITA Nos. 453 & 1125/Mum/2023
 Growmore Research and Assets Management

He further submitted thatthe assessee has purchased these bonds on
credit from M/s HSM out of the running account maintained with it.
Accordingly, in the absence of any proof to show that cash was given
outside the books, the question of assessing them u/s 69 of the Act as
unexplained investment does not arise. He submitted that the interest
earned on these bonds have been duly disclosed in the books of accounts,
i.e., if it were unaccounted investment, the assessee would not have
declared the interest income in its books. He further submitted that the
ITAT, in the first round, had directed Ld CIT(A) to decide the issue afresh
by considering the books of accounts of the assessee. However, it appears
that the Ld CIT(A) did not refer the books and also did not reject it also.
Hence, he should have accepted the entries made in the books of
accounts. 16.6 The Ld.DR, on the contrary, submitted that the assessee did not
furnish the books of account before the AO during the course of
assessment proceedings. He submitted that the assessee is placing
reliance on the running account maintained with M/s HSM, but the books
of accounts of Mr Harshad Mehta has been rejected by the Tribunal in AY
1992-93. He further submitted that the assessee has claimed that it has
submitted evidences before the AO and the Ld.CIT(A) in the first round,
but both the authorities have observed that the assessee has not furnished
the evidences. 16.7 Having heard rival contentions, we notice that the assessee has
repeatedly claimed that the above said PSU bonds were purchased by it
from the brokerage firm M/s HSM on credit, i.e., the assessee was having
a running account, wherein the purchases and sales made by the assessee
are recorded. Thus, it is the claim of the assessee that no separate
payment has been made specifically for purchase of these PSU bonds. ITA Nos. 453 & 1125/Mum/2023
 Growmore Research and Assets Management

According to the assessee, the purchases of these bonds have been duly
accounted for in its books of accounts. We have earlier extracted the
explanation given by the assessee containing details of purchase of each of
PSU bonds. It is noticed that these bonds have been purchased from M/s
HSM only, who in turn, had purchased them from the market. It is
submitted that the payments were made by M/s HSM to the sellers. These
details would show that the assessee has not made any payment towards
the purchase consideration. Further, it is stated that the interest income
from PSU bonds have also been accounted for in the books of accounts.
The Ld D.R submitted that the books of accounts of Shri Harshad Mehta
had been rejected by ITAT. The rejection may be in the context of
determining the income of Shri Harshad Mehta, but that does not mean
other commercial transactions entered by him were disproved. 16.8 We noticed that the AO has made this addition u/s 69 of the Act.
The said provision read as under:- The conditions for invoking the provisions of sec. 69 are that the (a) the assessee should have made investments (b) those investments have not been recorded in the books 34 ITA Nos. 453 & 1125/Mum/2023
 Growmore Research and Assets Management (c) the assessee offers no explanation about the nature and source
 of investments or the explanation offered by him is not, in the
 opinion of AO is satisfactory. According to the AO those investments have not been recorded in the
books of accounts and further, the assessee has not offered any
explanation about the source of investments. However, we noticed that
the assessee has accepted that it has made these investments and further
explained that they have been purchasedon credit from M/s HSM, who in
turn, had made payments to the seller. It is stated that those investments
have been duly recorded in the books of accounts and the claim of credit
purchases was proved by submitting the ledger extract of M/s HSM.
When the investments have been made on credit, the question of cash
outflow will not arise. Hence the question of making any addition u/s 69 of
the Act does not arise, in the absence of any cash outflow. We notice that
the books of accounts were not produced before the AO during the course
of assessment proceedings, but they were produced before Ld CIT(A). We
noticed that the ITAT had directed the Ld CIT(A) to decide the issues after
examining the books of accounts of the assessee. We notice that the Ld
CIT(A) does not appear to have referred to the books of accounts of the
assessee at all. Accordingly, we are of the view that the conditions
prescribed in sec.69 of the Act for invoking that provision have not
satisfied in the instant case and hence the tax authorities are not justified
in making addition u/s 69 of the Act. Accordingly, we modify the order
passed by Ld CIT(A) on this issue and direct the AO to delete the entire
addition of Rs.51.06 crores. 17. The Ground no.8 urged by the assessee relates to the disallowance
of depreciation of Rs.1.27 crores on leased plant and machinery. The AO
noticed that the assessee has purchased one machine from M/s Mazda
Packaging Ltd and leased back it to the very same company. According to 35 ITA Nos. 453 & 1125/Mum/2023
 Growmore Research and Assets Management

the AO, the machinery was purchased for a sum of Rs.5.03 crores, but it
was given on a lease for Rs.5000/- per month. The AO took the view that
these terms is beyond human probabilities and accordingly, held that it is
not a proper business deal and accordingly assessed the lease rent of
Rs.30,000/- received in this year as income under the head Income from
other sources. The AO noticed that the assessee has claimed depreciation
of Rs.1.27 crores calculated @ 25% of the cost of machinery of Rs.5.03
crores. Since the lease rent was assessed as income under the head
Income from other sources, the AO disallowed the depreciation claim of
Rs.1.27 crores. 17.1 The Ld CIT(A) noticed that the lease agreement has been entered on
16-04-1992, but the lease payment has started from 16.9.1991 itself, i.e.,
about seven months prior to the date of agreement. The Ld CIT(A)
considered the same as against corporate governance principles. Further,
he held that the lease rent received by the assessee was very low.
Accordingly, he suspected the deal itself and accordingly observed that the
transaction is more than what meets the eye. Accordingly, he confirmed
the disallowance of depreciation. 17.2 We heard the parties and perused the record. We notice that the
tax authorities have suspected the transaction entered between the
assessee and M/s Mazda Packaging Ltd. But what we notice is that the
lease rent of Rs.5000/- per month received by the assessee has been
taxed, even though it is considered to be a paltry sum vis-à-vis the cost of
machinery. The Ld A.R submitted that the above said amount of
Rs.5000/- was payable from October, 1991 to March, 1992 (i..e, for the
period prior to entering of lease agreement) and thereafter, the lease rent is
payable @ Rs.27/- per thousand per month of sales turnover as per the
agreement itself. Hence we notice that the tax authorities did not examine 36 ITA Nos. 453 & 1125/Mum/2023
 Growmore Research and Assets Management

lease agreement in toto and relied on one clause of the agreement, which is
not justified. The Ld A.R further submitted that the assessee has
continued to receive lease rent in the subsequent years also and has also
claimed depreciation. The lease rent receiptshave been taxed in
assessment year 1994-95 & 1995-96 and the depreciation claim has also
been allowed in both the years. The Ld A.R also relied upon a letter dated
17-04-1996 written by advocate of the Custodian to the Court receiver of
M/s Mazda Enterprises (earlier known as Mazda Packaging Ltd), wherein
he has given the details of purchase of machinery and lease details.
Further, he has also requested the Court Receiver not to deal with the said
machinery, which was an attached property. Accordingly, the Ld A.R
submitted that the tax authorities have disallowed depreciation claim on
incorrect appreciation of facts relating to this issue. The Ld D.R, however,
submitted that these lease transaction is a sham transaction and it does
not fit into the human probabilities. 17.3 We thus notice that the tax authorities did not examine the lease
agreement only partially and did not notice the enhancement of lease rent
after acquiring of machinery. We notice that the actual transaction of sale
of machinery by M/s Mazda Packaging Ltd to the assessee is not doubted.
Similarly, the transaction of leasing of the same to M/s Mazda packaging
Ltd is also not being doubted. The only suspicion was with regard to the
lease rent of Rs.5000/- only, which was payable before the acquiring of
machinery. In any case, the lease rent received by the assessee has been
assessed to tax under the head Income from other sources. When an
income is assessed to tax, then the tax authorities are obliged to allow all
the expenses incurred in earning that income and also deductions
statutorily allowable thereon. The depreciation prescribed in s. 32 of the
Act is allowed against the income assessed under the head income from
other sources also. Since, it is a statutory deduction prescribed under the 37 ITA Nos. 453 & 1125/Mum/2023
 Growmore Research and Assets Management

Act, we are of the view that the tax authorities are not justified in rejecting
the said claim, that too after assessing the relevant income. Further, the
assessee has continued to declare lease rental income in the subsequent
years, viz., AY 1994-95 and 1995-96. The depreciation has also been
claimed on the very same asset. It was submitted that the AO has
assessed lease rental income after allowing depreciation so claimed by the
assessee in those years. 17.4 This issue can be looked from another angle. It is well settled
proposition of law that the tax authorities are not entitled to question the
wisdom of a businessman. The purchase of machinery and leasing out the
same are in the nature of commercial transactions entered into by the
assessee. In our view, the AO is not entitled to question them, unless he
could establish that the entire transactions are sham transactions. If the
transactions are entered between two related parties, then it may instigate
the AO to further probe the transaction. At the most, the AO could have
established suppression of lease rental income only and even in that case,
the depreciation allowable under the Act could not have been disallowed,
after accepting the cost of asset. In the instant case, the AO did not carry
out any enquiry with regard to the same. If the AO disbelieves the
transactions without making any enquiry, it would mean that he has
decided this issue only on suspicions and surmises, which is not permitted
under the Income tax Act. We notice that the Ld CIT(A) has also endorsed
the decision so reached by the AO without causing any further enquiry. 17.5 In view of the foregoing discussions, we are of the view that the tax
authorities are not justified in disallowing the statutory deduction of
depreciation mandatorily allowable under the Act under suspicions and
surmises, that too after assessing the corresponding rental income.
Hence, it is not in accordance with law. Accordingly, we set aside the 38 ITA Nos. 453 & 1125/Mum/2023
 Growmore Research and Assets Management

order passed by Ld CIT(A) on this issue and direct the AO to allow the
depreciation claimed by the assessee in this year. 18. The Ground No.9 urged by the assessee relates to the addition of
Rs.1,01,23,655/- relating to the bank drafts found at the Madras Office of
the assessee. 18.1 During the course of search conducted at the Madras office of the
assessee, bank drafts having value of Rs.1,01,23,655/- were seized. The
demand drafts were in the name of M/s Investment Advisory P Ltd (IAPL).
It was also noticed that these drafts were issued by four brokers viz., Shri
R RMohata, Shri ChampaklalJamnadas, Shri Sagar Bihani and Shri
Shrenik J Shah, who were also subjected to search or survey operations.
The brokers have stated that the drafts represented sale proceeds of
shares of M/s Karnataka Ball Bearing belonging to M/s IAPL. However,
Shri R Srinivasan, the principal officer of M/s IAPL denied sale of any
shares and submitted that these drafts were handed over to him by the
employees of Bombay Office of the assessee with the request to hand over
the same to Madras office. The assessee, on the contrary, submitted that
the shares of Karnataka ball bearing were purchased by IAPL through
broking firms of the group and later sold through four brokers, who had
issued demand drafts in the name of IAPL towards the sale consideration.
Accordingly, the assessee disowned the bank demand drafts. However, the
AO did not accept the same and took the view that the demand drafts
represent sale proceed of shares and unexplained investment of the
assessee. 18.2 The Ld CIT(A) noticed that the assessee did not furnish any
documents like contract notes or supporting evidences to prove its
explanations. He held that the demand drafts were seized from the office of
the assessee and hence, the primary onus to prove that the same does not 39 ITA Nos. 453 & 1125/Mum/2023
 Growmore Research and Assets Management

belong to it lies upon the assessee. The Ld CIT(A), relying upon a letter
written by Shri R Srinivasan of IAPL to the director of the assessee, took
the view that the above said Shri Srinivasan is the agent of the assessee
only, which is corroborated by the fact that the assessee has been paying
maintenance charges to IAPL. The Ld CIT(A) also noticed that Shri
Srinivasan has implicated two employees of the assessee also.
Accordingly, he took the view that the assessee did not come clean on this
matter. Accordingly, he confirmed the addition made by the AO. 18.3 We heard the parties on this issue and perused the record. The
AO has assessed the amount of Rs.1,01,23,655/- as unaccounted sale of
shares of M/s Karnataka Ball Bearing Ltd. The basis of this addition is
that the demand drafts seized from the premises of the assessee. The fact
is that the above said demand drafts stood in the name of M/s IAPL and
the brokers, who issued the shares have stated that they have issued the
demand drafts towards sale value of sale of shares of M/s Karnataka Ball
Bearing. The assessee has explained that the above said shares were
purchased by IAPL through its associate broking firms and sold through
the four brokers. However, the explanations of the assessee were not
accepted for the reason that (a) the demand drafts were found in the premises of the assessee. (b) the principal officer of M/s IAPL had denied sale of shares and
 claimed to have received the demand drafts from the Bombay office
 of the assessee. (c) there is commercial transaction of reimbursement of expenses
 between the assessee and IAPL. Hence Srinivasan also appears to
 be the employee of the assessee. ITA Nos. 453 & 1125/Mum/2023
 Growmore Research and Assets Management

18.4 However, we notice that the AO did not enquire as to why the
demand drafts are in the name of IAPL, when he assumes that they belong
to the assessee. He also did not establish that the shares of Karnataka
Ball Bearing Ltd were owned by the assessee only. In the absence of
shares, it may not be possible to presume that the assessee has sold the
shares of Karnataka ball bearing Ltd. It is true that it is the responsibility
of the assessee to explain about the demand drafts, since they were seized
from the premises of the assessee. However, we notice that the assessee
has given explanations, but the same were rejected by the AO, mainly for
the reason that one of the employees of IAPL had denied sale of shares. 18.5 In this regard, as contended by Ld A.R, we notice that the AO did
not bring on record the statement, if any, given by the brokers implicating
the assessee. It is a fact that the three associate broking firms of the
group were also operating in the very same premises in Madras. Hence, it
cannot be conclusively said that these demand drafts belong to the
assessee. From the explanation given by the assessee it can be noticed
that it is quite possible that the demand drafts were related to the
transactions carried between the broking firms with the four brokers. No
explanation is available as to why the demand drafts representing sale
consideration of shares were issued in the name of IAPL. This important
question remains unanswered by anyone. 18.6 We noticed that the Ld CIT(A) has entertained the view that Shri
Srinivasan is the agent of the assessee and the demand drafts were
received from two employees of the assessee at Bombay by him. The
employees name was mentioned as Shri Kirti Shah and Shri Arun Bhaiya.
The Ld A.R submitted that all the above said three persons are not
employees of the assessee. We also notice that the AO has not shown that
IAPL is either subsidiary or benami concern of the assessee. The ld A.R 41 ITA Nos. 453 & 1125/Mum/2023
 Growmore Research and Assets Management

also submitted that none of the statements were confronted with the
assessee. However, it appears that the assessee had sought for cross
examination only in the year 2022. Hence this contention may not be
justified due to lapse of huge time. 18.7 We notice that the tax authorities have also observed that the
assessee did not offer any explanation in the proceedings conducted u/s
132(5) of the Act. The Ld A.R submitted that the assessee was facing
enquiries from several authorities at that point of time, viz., CBI, Company
Law Board and further prohibitory orders were issued on the computers of
the assessee. Hence, it could not furnish any reply. In our view, the same
may not be relevant. In our view, the assessee can be subjected to tax in
respect of undisclosed income of the assessee only. Hence, it is necessary
to establish that the demand drafts seized from its premises actually
belonged to the assessee. There is no doubt that the assessee has not
purchased the demand drafts and it was given by the four share brokers.
The statements given by those brokers have not been brought on record.
Even Mr Srinivasan of IAPL did not say that these demand drafts belong to
the assessee, i.e., he has only stated that they were collected by him from
Bombay office and handed over to the Madras office. Since the brokers
who had given demand drafts had admitted that they have given them
towards value of sale of shares, it is not discernible as to how the AO could
not find out the real seller of the shares. It was possible to ascertain the
same from the very same brokers only on the basis of the broker notes
issued by them. We notice that the AO did not discuss anything about the
nature of enquiry conducted with the brokers. All these facts would show
that the AO has selectively relied upon certain information and accordingly
drawn adverse inferences against the assessee. In our view, the same is
not legally sustainable. In the absence of any proof to link the demand
drafts with the assessee, we are of the view that the AO was not justified in 42 ITA Nos. 453 & 1125/Mum/2023
 Growmore Research and Assets Management

making this addition. Accordingly, we set aside the order passed by Ld
CIT(A) on this issue and direct the AO to delete the addition of
Rs.1,01,23,655/-. 19. The Ground No.10 urged by the assessee relates to the addition of
Rs.15.76 crores relating to value of shares seized from the assessee‟s
premises. 19.1. During the course of search proceedings conducted on 14-05-1992,
shares worth Rs. 15.76 crores were seized and the inventory of the seized
shares were prepared. As per the direction given by the Hon‟ble Special
Court, the copies of inventory sheets consisting of 330 pages were given to
the assessee in the month of November, 1992. The AO asked the assessee
to explain the sourcesof investments made in these shares. The assessee
replied that theseshares may belong to different entities of the group.
Accordingly, it requested the AO to furnish the details of shares as well
asthe details of premises from which they were seized, so that it could
identify the owners of those shares.According to Ld A.R, these shares were
seized from various premises and all of them were brought to one place
and thereafter, prohibitory orders were issued and they were seized.
However, the AO did not accept the above said explanations of the
assessee. He noticed that the shares found and seized were mostly
unregistered shares, i.e., they have not been transferred to the name of the
buyer yet. Since the shares were seized from the premises of the assessee,
the AOassessed the entire valueof Rs. 15.76 croresas unexplained
investment u/s. 69 of the Act. 19.2. Before the Ld.CIT(A), the assessee contended thatthe AO has not
given details of shares, viz., the name of the holders, the place wherefrom
they were seized etc. It also submitted that the AO did not allow
inspection of the shares seized by the department. It submitted that the 43 ITA Nos. 453 & 1125/Mum/2023
 Growmore Research and Assets Management

registered shares are very much accounted in the books of the respective
owners. It was also submitted that the un-registered shares have also
been duly accounted for in the Books of Account of the respective owners.
Accordingly, it was contended that those shares cannot be treated as
"unaccounted investments". However, according to Ld.CIT(A), the assessee
has been given a copy of inventory in November, 1992, but the assessee
has failed to explain the sources of investments of seized shares during the
course of proceedings conductedu/s.132(5) of the Act. Further, the
Ld.CIT(A) took the view that these shares have been seized from the
assessee only and hence it is the responsibility of the assessee to explain
the sources of making investment in unregistered shares.Accordingly, he
confirmed the addition. 19.3. The submissions of the Ld.AR before us are summarized as under : It is the submission of the assessee that it was given only the inventory
sheets and not the copies of Shares certificates and transfer deeds, if any,
attached thereto. Though the AO has observed that these shares are un-
registered shares. However, according to the assessee, most of the shares
are registered shares and only few shares are un-registered shares. 19.6 Insofar as the registered shares are concerned, it was submitted that
the name of the owner of shares could be found from the Share 46 ITA Nos. 453 & 1125/Mum/2023
 Growmore Research and Assets Management

Certificate itself. In that case, the assessee cannot be considered as owner
of the shares. According to the Ld.AR, the registered shares belong to
various members of the group and they should have been accounted for in
their respective Books of Account. 19.7 We find merit in the said submissions. We are also of the view that
the assessee can be considered as owner only if the shares are registered
in the name of the assessee. Accordingly, in respect of shares registered in
the name of other persons, in our view, the addition could not be made in
the hands of the assessee. 19.8In respect of un-registered shares, it is the contention of the Ld.AR
that the assessee would be in a position to correlate the shares with any of
the entities in the group, provided details thereof are given to the assessee.
As submitted by the Ld.AR, if the un-registered shares could be linked to
any of other entities of the group and they have been accounted in their
books, then also the value of those shares cannot be assessed in the
hands of the assessee. 19.9We notice that the above submissions of the assessee could be
appreciated only if the factual details relating to the shares seized by the
revenue are properly analysed. However, we notice that the tax authorities
have sought explanations from the assesseewith regard to the sources of
investments, without providing all the relevant details that were requested
by the assessee, which may not be possible for the assessee.As noticed
earlier, the assessee has been given only inventory sheets of shares, which
consisted of 330 shares. Hence,it would not be possible for anyone to
identity the owners of shares on the basis of inventory alone. We noticed
that the inventory sheet itself consisted of more than 300 pgs. In view of
the foregoing discussions, we are of the view that the AO could not have
made this addition without giving all the details relating to the shares. ITA Nos. 453 & 1125/Mum/2023
 Growmore Research and Assets Management

19.10 Since physical stock of shares have been found and seized during
the course of search, in our view, they have to be examined in order to
differentiate between accounted and unaccounted shares. If any
unaccounted shares could be found out, then they can be subjected to tax
in the hands of the respective owners only, that too, if the explanation
given by the assessee/owner of the shares was not satisfactory.
Accordingly, we are of the view that this issue requires examination afresh
at the end of the AO. Accordingly, we set aside the order passed
byLd.CIT(A) on this issue and restore the same to the file of the AO for
examining this issue afresh in the light of discussions made supra. 19.11 We have noticed that the assessee has contended that there was no
break-up available for the impugned addition of Rs.15.76 crores.
Accordingly, for offering proper explanations, we are of the view that the
assessee shouldbe furnishedwith break-up details of the above said
addition. Further, the assessee shall also be provided withcopies of
relevant share certificates and blank transfer deeds, if any, attached
thereto. 19.12 It is well settled proposition of law that the Income tax authorities
are entitled to assess any undisclosed income only on the basis of some
credible materials, i.e., additions on the basis of presumption, surmises
and conjectures are not permitted. Accordingly, if the AO is not able to
furnish the evidences in support of this addition, the assessee would not
be in a position to offer any explanation. In that case, we are of the view
that no addition can be made on account of these investments. Further,
the presumption about the ownership of the shares can be made only if it
is proved that the shares have been found in the possession of the
assessee and they do not belong to any other related entity. There should
not be any dispute that the value of investment should be determined on 48 ITA Nos. 453 & 1125/Mum/2023
 Growmore Research and Assets Management

the basis of actual purchase cost and not on the basis of market price on
the date of seizure. We order accordingly. 20. The modified Ground no.11 urged by the assessee relates to the
partial confirmation of addition of unexplained deposits made in bank
accounts of the assessee. The AO noticed that the assessee is having 11
bank accounts in cities of Bombay, Delhi, Madras and Bangalore. Even
though, the assessee furnished copies of bank accounts, according to AO,
the assessee did not explain the transactions details. During the course of
assessment proceedings, the AO collected certain details from RBI. On the
basis of those details and also on the basis of voucher files available with
the assessee, the AO prepared a "Receipts and Payments account" in
respect of bank entries. The AO asked the assessee to explain the receipts
and payments account prepared by him. Since the assessee did not
furnish any explanation, the AO assessed entire receipts aggregating to
Rs.29,12,96,041/- as unexplained income u/s 69A of the Act. 20.1 The assessee furnished a detailed written submissions before Ld
CIT(A) giving details of deposits made into the various bank accounts.
Based on the same, the Ld CIT(A) granted partial relief and confirmed
additions to the extent of Rs.24,36,94,340/-. The assessee is aggrieved.
We notice that the revenue is not contesting the relief granted by Ld CIT(A)
and hence his decision thereon has attained finality. 20.2 The main contention of the assessee is that all the transactions
made in the bank accounts of the assessee have been duly recorded in the
books of accounts and hence they cannot be considered as unexplained
deposits. It was submitted that the deposits made into the bank account
are business transactions of the assessee and further, they are supported
by the relevant contract notes. Out of the additions confirmed by Ld
CIT(A), the Ld A.R explained two major transactions and further submitted 49 ITA Nos. 453 & 1125/Mum/2023
 Growmore Research and Assets Management

that the remaining deposits also were duly explained in the submissions
made to Ld CIT(A). Accordingly, he prayed for deletion of this addition. 20.3 The Ld D.R, on the contrary, submitted that the assessee did not
furnish any detail before the AO during the course of assessment
proceedings. All these documents have been prepared later and hence they
cannot be relied fully. 20.4 We heard rival contentions on this issue and perused the record.
We noticed earlier that the assessee has prepared the books of accounts
after completion of assessment and hence, the Tribunal has restored all
the issues to the file of Ld CIT(A) to examine them afresh by considering
the books of accounts. The books of accounts of any business concern
cannot be prepared unless all the transactions made in the bank accounts
are duly recorded. In this case, the assessee has maintained 11 bank
accounts spread in various cities and through them only, it has transacted
its business. Once the deposits made into those bank accounts are
accepted as business transactions, it may not be right to assess the entire
deposits as unexplained income of the assessee, since the law is settled
that the AO can assess only income element involved in those
transactions. However, in the instant case, the AO has assessed entire
deposits aggregating to Rs.29.12 crores as unexplained income of the
assessee, even though he was aware that the assessee is involved in share
and money market transactions. He has done so mainly for the reason
that the assessee could not explain each and every deposits made into the
bank accounts. Everyone was aware the difficulties faced by the assessee,
group entities, family members etc after the outburst of the stock scam
and hence assessee‟s explanation before the AO that it could not explain
the details due to difficulties faced by it and in our view, it should have
been appreciated. ITA Nos. 453 & 1125/Mum/2023
 Growmore Research and Assets Management

20.5 As noticed earlier, the assessee has prepared books of accounts
duly incorporating all the bank transactions therein. We notice that the Ld
CIT(A) did not examine the books of accounts before rendering his
decision. If the transactions made in the bank accounts have been duly
recorded in the books, then the AO cannot make any addition on the basis
of details collected from RBI and vouchers. This is for the reason that,
under the double entry principle, one transaction will consists of two legs.
Hence the transaction found in the bank account is only one leg and the
details of other leg of the said transaction will be available in the books of
accounts. Accordingly, unless one examine both the legs of the
transactions, it will not be possible for anyone to reach any conclusion.
For example, if a person named "A" obtains loan of say Rs.10.00 lakhs
from Mr.X by way of cheque, the same will be recorded in the books by
passing double entry, viz., Bank account will be debited with Rs.10.00
lakhs and the corresponding credit will be given to the account of Mr.X.
So far as the bank deposit of Rs.10.00 lakhs is concerned, the same would
stand explained as the receipt from Mr.X. Hence the AO cannot make
addition of deposit of Rs.10.00 lakhs made in the bank account as
unexplained deposit. However, the AO is entitled to examine the account
of Mr X in order to find out the genuineness of loan in terms of sec.68 of
the Act. If he is satisfied with it, the AO cannot make any addition.
However, if he is not satisfied, then he can make addition of loan received
from Mr X u/s 68 of the Act (not the bank deposit). This example would
explain the requirement of examining both the legs of a transaction. 20.6 In the instant case, we notice that there are two major deposits
found in the bank accounts of the assessee viz., (a) deposit of Rs.10.18 crores on 15-01-1992 with ANZ Grindlays
 Bank, Bombay 51 ITA Nos. 453 & 1125/Mum/2023
 Growmore Research and Assets Management (b) deposit of Rs.14.14 crores on 24.03.1992 with UCO bank ,
 Nariman Point Branch, Bombay. With regard to the deposit of Rs.10.18 crores deposited in ANZ Grindlays
bank, the Ld A.R explained the same as under, i.e., M/s Harshad S Mehta
has sold 9% IRFC Bonds having Face Value of Rs.11.00 crores to M/s ANZ
Grindlays Bank for Rs.10.18 crores. Hence, the above said bank was
liable to pay the above said amount to M/s Harshad S Mehta. It is
submitted that M/s Harshad S Mehta has instructed the above said bank
to make the payment to the assessee. Accordingly, the above said amount
of Rs.10.18 crores was paid by ANZ Grindlays bank to the assessee by
crediting the bank account of the assessee. The Ld A.R submitted that the
bank statement would show that the above said amount was credited in
the bank account with the narration "SS purchase consideration".
Further, the Ld A.R submitted that the copy of Contract note dated 15-01-
1992 in respect of the purchase of security is placed at page 1047 of the
paper book and the corresponding Deal slip is enclosed at page 1048. The
ANZ Grindlays bank has also issued a Security deal slip and it is available
at page 1087 of paper book. The Ld A.R submitted that the above said
transactions are also available in the computer data seized by the revenue. 20.7 It can be noticed that the assessee received the above said amount
of Rs.10.18 crores from M/s ANZ Grindlays bank on the instruction of M/s
Harshad S Mehta. Accordingly, the assessee has incorporated the
transaction by debiting the bank account and making corresponding credit
in the account of M/s Harshad S Mehta. We notice that the above said
transaction was a commercial transaction entered between the bank and
M/s Harshad S Mehta. The corresponding Contract notes and Deal slips
are also submitted in the paper book. Under these set of facts, we are of
the view that the deposit of Rs.10.18 crores stood explained and 52 ITA Nos. 453 & 1125/Mum/2023
 Growmore Research and Assets Management

accordingly, it cannot be considered as unexplained deposit in the hands
of the assessee. 20.8 The next major deposit is the amount of Rs.14.14 crores found
deposited in the UCO bank account of the assessee. We notice that the
assessee has offered certain explanations before Ld CIT(A), but he decided
this issue against the assessee with the following observations:- 21.12.1993 states "27. The scam is basically a deliberate and
 criminal misuse of public funds through various types of securities
 transaction with the aim of illegally siphoning of funds of banks and
 PSUs to select brokers for speculative returns". Further, there are
 adverse findings related to transactions with UCO Bank. Hence this
 addition stands confirmed." We notice that the assessee has explained the sources of deposit of
Rs.14.14 crores. However, the Ld CIT(A) has confirmed the addition on the
basis of observations made in the JPC report, without finding any fault
with the explanation given by the assessee. Before us, the Ld A.R
submitted that the JPC report is a general report with regard to stock
market scam and it did not deal with any specific transaction. We agree 53 ITA Nos. 453 & 1125/Mum/2023
 Growmore Research and Assets Management

with the same and accordingly, we are of the view that the Ld CIT(A) was
not justified in placing reliance on JPC report, when the assessee is
explaining the specific transaction of deposit found credited in the UCO
bank. 20.9 From the explanation furnished by the assessee before Ld CIT(A), it
can be noticed that the broker firm M/s Jyoti H Mehta has transferred the
amount of Rs.14.14 crores to the account of the assessee. The Ld A.R
submitted that the assessee has placed in the paper book, the bank
accounts and ledger extract of assessee in the books of assessee M/s Jyoti
H Mehta and also the bank accounts and ledger account of M/s Jyoti H
Mehta in the books of the assessee. Thus, we notice that it was a business
transaction between the assessee and M/s Jyoti H Mehta. The important
point is that the funds have been received by the assessee from the above
said brokerage firm, which, in turn, has received the same by way of bill
discounting from UCO Bank. Accordingly, we are of the view that the
deposit of Rs.14.14 crores cannot be considered as unexplained deposit. 20.10 With regard to the remaining deposit of Rs.3,78,154/-, we notice
that the same represents 14 items of small deposits. All of them have been
made available in the chart prepared by Ld CIT(A). We notice that these
deposits consists of Rs.1,130/- to Rs.57,624/-. As noticed earlier,
addition of all these deposits is not called for, when the assessee has
accounted them in its books of accounts. 20.11 We notice that the Ld CIT(A) has directed the AO to assess interest
income on certain deposits. We notice that the assessee has not contested
the direction given by Ld CIT(A). Hence, we do not interfere with those
directions. ITA Nos. 453 & 1125/Mum/2023
 Growmore Research and Assets Management

20.12 In view of the above, we modify the order passed by Ld CIT(A) on
this issue and direct the AO to delete the addition relating to unexplained
deposits. 21. The Ground no.12 urged by the assessee relates to the addition of
bill discounting charges of Rs.46,14,869/-. The AO noticed that the
assessee has discounted two bills of Rs.15.00 crores and Rs.11.00 cores
for M/s Reliance Capital & Finance Trust Ltd (RCFTL). In this connection,
RCFTL has paid discounting charges of Rs.12,17,698/- for discounting bill
of Rs.15.00 cores. The discount charges accrued on the other bill of
Rs.11.00 crores was Rs.33,97,174/-. Thus, the aggregate amount of bill
discounting charges was Rs.46,14,869/-. When questioned about the
same, the assessee denied these transactions and accordingly requested
the AO to supply the materials on which the AO was placing reliance. The
assessee further submitted that it is aware of certain transactions entered
by M/s HSM with RCFTL and accordingly requested the AO to allow
inspection of the material. The AO noticed that the assessee was aware of
the transactions. He also observed that, even though the funds were
provided by M/s HSM, the deal was concluded in the name of the assessee
company. Accordingly, the AO assessed the bill discounting charges of
Rs.46,14,869/- as income of the assessee. 21.1 Before Ld CIT(A), the assessee submitted affidavit dated 09-01-1996
obtained from Late Shri Harshad S Mehta, wherein he confirmed that the
transactions with RCFTL were accounted in the books of M/s HSM. The
Ld CIT(A) did not consider the said affidavit on the reasoning that it is filed
much after completion of the assessment. He also took the view that the
assessee could not substantiate its explanations through the books of
accounts and other evidences. He also took cognizance of the observation 55 ITA Nos. 453 & 1125/Mum/2023
 Growmore Research and Assets Management

of the AO that the transactions have been entered in the name of the
assessee herein. Accordingly, he confirmed the addition. 21.2 We heard the parties on this issue and perused the record. We
notice that there is no dispute between the parties that the funds were
provided by M/s HSM to M/s RCFTL for discounting the bills of Rs.15
crores and Rs.11 crores. In the normal course, the related income by way
of bill discounting charges shall belong to the person who has provided the
funds. Despite knowing this fact, the AO has preferred to assess the said
income in the hands of the assessee only for the reason that the deal was
concluded in the name of the assessee. It is pertinent to note that the AO
did not bring on record any material to show that the deal was indeed
concluded in the name of the assessee. We notice that the AO did not
supply the information collected by him from RCFTL to the assessee, even
though the assessee had asked for the same. Thus, it is a case of making
addition on the basis of material collected behind the back of the assessee.
Hence, the observation of the AO that the deal was concluded in the name
of the assessee is liable to be rejected, in the absence of any material to
support the same. 21.3 On the contrary, the assessee has submitted that it was a
commercial transaction between M/s HSM and M/s RCFTL. In support of
the same, the assessee has furnished ledger account copies as available in
the books of M/s HSM, wherein the transactions of lending were duly
accounted for. The ld A.R also submitted that M/s HSM has issued the
deal slips and they were part of seized material. Another important point
brought to our notice by Ld A.R is that the AO has computed the income of
M/s HSM on the basis of seized materials, wherein he has already
assessed income arising out of the above transactions. We notice that late
Shri Harshad S Mehta has also confirmed the above facts in his affidavit, 56 ITA Nos. 453 & 1125/Mum/2023
 Growmore Research and Assets Management

but the Ld CIT(A) did not consider the same. In view of the overwhelming
evidence produced by the assessee, we are of the view that the tax
authorities are not justified in assessing the bill discounting charges in the
hands of the assessee, when they are aware that the assessee has not
provided funds.Further, the addition has been made on the basis of
materials,collected behind its back and not provided to the assessee. 21.4. Accordingly, we set aside the order passed by Ld CIT(A) on this issue
and direct the AO to delete the addition of bill discounting charges of
Rs.46,14,869/-. 22. The modified ground No.13 of the assessee is related to the
addition of money market profit of Rs.3,16,04,500/- instead of loss of (-)
Rs.26,48,250/-. 22.1. During the course of assessment proceedings, the AO noticed that
the assessee-company has carried out "money market operations" during
the year under consideration. As per the ledger account seized at the time
of search conducted on 28-02-1992, there was a profit of Rs.3.16 crores
from money market operations. However, in the final profit and loss
account for the year ending 31.3.1992, the assessee has shown loss of
Rs.26,48,250/-. The AO noticed that there was net loss because of the
reason that the assessee has incurred a loss of Rs. 4.32 crores in the
month of March, 1992, i.e., subsequent to the date of search. Since the
assessee had declared profit prior to the date of search and loss
subsequently, the AO did not accept the loss declared by the assessee
subsequent to the date of search. Accordingly, heassessed the profit from
money market operations at Rs. 3.16 crores as per the ledger account
found during the course of search. ITA Nos. 453 & 1125/Mum/2023
 Growmore Research and Assets Management

22.2. In the appellate proceedings, the Ld.CIT(A) noticed that the assessee
has incurred loss in the month of March, 1992, by entering into
transactions with M/s. Harshad SMehta, a broking firm of the group,
whose proprietor was Shri Shri Harshad S Mehta and he was also the
Chairman of the assessee-company. Further, the Ld.CIT(A) noticed that
there was no movement of funds in connection with these transactions
and there was no delivery of securities also. He also observed that there is
a high variation between purchase price and sale price of securities. He
further observed that the trades have been reversed on the same day. He
also observed that those prices did not match with Bhav copy of Bombay
Stock Exchange. Accordingly, he took the view that the AO was justified in
rejecting the loss declared by the assessee and accordingly, he confirmed
the assessment of Rs.3.16 crores noted in the ledger account seized at the
time of search. It appears that both the tax authorities have taken the
view that the losses incurred by the assessee in March, 1992 in money
market operations may be bogus one. 22.3 We heard the parties and perused the record. It is the submission
of Ld A.R that the ledger account relating to money market operations
found at the time of search was an incomplete document and hence the
AO should not have placed reliance entirely on that document. We notice
that the regular books of accounts were submitted before Ld CIT(A), but he
did not examine though the direction of ITAT to Ld CIT(A) in the first round
of proceedings was to decide the issues after considering the books of
accounts. The Ld A.R submitted that the ledger account seized during the
course of search was incomplete only is further proved by the fact that the
following entries of profit have been omitted in the ledger account found at
the time of search:- Accordingly, there was no requirement for the assessee to make payments
on completion of the transactions. With regard the market price quoted in
the Bhav register of BSE, the Ld A.R submitted that the said Bhav register 59 ITA Nos. 453 & 1125/Mum/2023
 Growmore Research and Assets Management

pertained to Debentures, while the assessee has dealt in "Bonds".
Admittedly, the debentures are different from Bonds and hence the Ld
CIT(A) was not justified in referring to the rates of Debentures to take
adverse view against the assessee. The ld A.R further submitted that the
observation of the Ld CIT(A) that there is huge variation in the purchase
and sale of bonds is not borne out of record. He submitted that the
transactions were undertaken at market rates and with unrelated third
parties. The Ld A.R also brought to our notice the prices at which
transaction had taken place and some of the prices are also mentioned in
the table extracted in the subsequent paragraphs. A perusal of the same
would show that the observations made Ld CIT(A) on this point is without
appreciation of correct facts. Accordingly, we are of the view that various
observations made by Ld CIT(A) do not justify the disallowance of loss
declared by the assessee in the month of March, 1992. 22.5 We shall now advert to the loss incurred in the month of March,
1992. The assessee has incurred loss in the following money market
transactionsin the month of March, 1992. We notice that the tax authorities have taken the view that the assessee
has transacted with its group concern M/s HSM and accordingly, the loss
booked in March, 1992 may be bogus one. The Ld A.R submitted that the
above said view of the tax authorities is not correct. He submitted that the 60 ITA Nos. 453 & 1125/Mum/2023
 Growmore Research and Assets Management

assessee has transacted through the broking firm M/s HSM. In these
types of transactions, they are entered between two parties through the
broker, i.e.,when the assessee has purchased/ sold the bonds through
M/s HSM, there will be a corresponding seller/buyer in respect of each of
the transactions undertaken by the assessee. In support of this
submission, the Ld A.R furnished following table to show that there was
corresponding buyer/seller in respect of each transaction: - ITA Nos. 453 & 1125/Mum/2023
 Growmore Research and Assets Management

Accordingly, it has to be held that the tax authorities have rejected the loss
incurred in March, 1992 only on surmises and conjectures only, which is
not permitted under the Act. 22.7 We further notice that the assessee has addressed every
observations made by Ld CIT(A). The Ld A.R submitted that the
transactions of purchases and sales of the assessee are supported by the
contract notes. Accordingly, under these set of facts, we are of the view
that the Ld CIT(A) was not justified in confirming the addition made by the
AO. Accordingly, we set aside the order passed by Ld CIT(A) on this issue
and direct the AO to accept the loss from money market transactions
declared by the assessee. 23. The Ground no.14 urged by the assessee is related to the addition
of Rs.6,94,520/- pertaining to interest income from 13% NLC Bonds. 23.1 The facts relating to this case are that the AO noted that the
assessee had purchased 13% NLC bonds having face value of Rs.5.00
Crores from M/s Canfina on 22-02-1992 and they were registered in the
name of the assessee by the order of Special Court. The AO calculated
interest accrued on such bonds up to the end of the financial year i.e. for a
period of 39 days from 22-02-1992 to 31.03.1992, which worked out to
Rs.6,94,520/-. The AO assessed the same as income of the assessee. 23.2 Before Ld CIT(A), the assessee did not press this ground and
accordingly, he dismissed the same. 23.3 The Ld A.R submitted that the bonds were not delivered to the
assessee and hence they were not registered in the name of the assessee
as on 31.3.1992. Subsequent to search operations, there was no certainty
that the assessee would get the bonds itself. When the receipt of security
itself is in doubt, the AO was not justified in assessing the accrued 63 ITA Nos. 453 & 1125/Mum/2023
 Growmore Research and Assets Management

interest. When it was pointed out that the assessee did not press this
issue before Ld CIT(A), the Ld A.R submitted that there is no estoppels
against the law. Hence the assessee could contest this addition. He
submitted that the income cannot be said to accrue, when the principal
amount itself was doubtful of recovery. 23.4 The Ld D.R, however, submitted that the assessee cannot take a
different stand before the Tribunal, after having decided not to press this
issue before Ld CIT(A). In any case, the above said bond has been
registered in the name of the assessee subsequently as per the order
passed by the Special Court. The assessee has also been paid interest
amount from the date of purchase also. Accordingly, the Ld D.R
submitted that the assessing officer has rightly assessed the interest
income. 23.5 We heard rival contentions on this issue and perused the record.
Even though there was uncertainty about the receipt of bonds and the
interest income in the initial period of search, it is stated that the assessee
has received interest as well as got the bonds. Accordingly, we are of the
view that the accrued interest income computed by the assessing officer
needs to be sustained. Accordingly, we uphold the assessment of interest
income of Rs.6,94,520/-. 24. The ground no.15 urged by the assessee has already been disposed
of along with ground no.5 of the revenue. 25. The Ground no.16 urged by the assessee is related to the
disallowance of claim of interest expenses. The assessee did not make
claim for deduction of interest expenses before the AO. 25.1 Before Ld CIT(A), the assessee claimed deduction of interest
expenses of Rs.9,85,73,047/-. The Ld CIT(A) noticed following facts:- ITA Nos. 453 & 1125/Mum/2023
 Growmore Research and Assets Management (e) The interest expenditure cannot be allowed against income from
 capital gains. The interest expenditure cannot be allowed against
 dividend income, unless it is shown that it was incurred solely for
 earning dividend income. (f)Since the income of the assessee includes profit from share trading
 and share speculation, it would be entitled for deduction of some
 part of interest expenditure. However, the unaudited Balance sheet
 filed by the assessee shows the assessee was having investment of
 Rs.69.43 crores and inventories (share trading stock) is shown at
 Rs.44.60 crores as on 31.3.1992. Hence, the interest expenditure
 attributable to business operations is allowable as deduction.
 However, the assessee has neither quantified the interest
 expenditure claim in its submissions or in its books of accounts. Accordingly, the Ld CIT(A) rejected the claim for deduction of interest
expenditure. 25.2 The Ld A.R submitted that the one of the family members of the
group, viz., Smt Pratima Hitesh Mehta had also claimed deduction of
interest expenditure in assessment year 1992-93 and the Ld CIT(A) had
rejected the said claim on identical reasoning. However, the Tribunal, vide
its order dated 26.10.2023 passed in ITA No.416 and 1180/Mum/2023
has allowed the claim of the assessee. Further, the above said decision of
the ITAT was followed by other co-ordinate benches in the following cases:- ITA Nos. 453 & 1125/Mum/2023
 Growmore Research and Assets Management

25.3 The Ld D.R, on the contrary, submitted that the assessee has not
given any details relating to interest expenditure. He further submitted
that the interest expenditure should be restricted to that portion, which is
attributable to business income. 25.4 We heard the parties on this issue and perused the record. We
notice that the co-ordinate bench has held in the case of Pratima Hitesh
Mehta (supra) that interest expenditure is allowable as deduction. The
relevant portion of the decision rendered by the co-ordinate bench is
extracted below:- 25.5 The interest expenditure claim is allowed u/s 36(1)(iii) of the Act,
which states that the amount of interest paid in respect of capital
borrowed for the purposes of business is allowable as deduction. Hence,
what is required to be seen is that whether the capital was borrowed for
the purposes of business or not?. Earning of income out of the said
capital may not be relevant. Accordingly, if it is accepted that the capital
was borrowed for the purposes of business, then the interest payable on
the said capital is allowable as deduction. 25.6 In the instant case, the assessee has claimed for deduction of
interest expenditure before Ld CIT(A). According to Ld CIT(A), the assessee
did not furnish the details of interest expenditure and did not show how it
was quantified. However, the Ld CIT(A) also accepts that the assessee is
following mercantile system of accounting. In fact, we have seen that the
AO has assessed accrued interest on an investment made by the assessee.
Hence, the interest expenditure is allowable as deduction under mercantile
system of accounting under accrual basis. The other discussions made by
Ld CIT(A) with regard to deduction of interest expenditure claim against
income from Capital gains and Other sources may not be relevant, since it
is seen that the assessee has not claimed deduction against those income.
Thus, in effect, the only effective deficiency pointed out by the Ld CIT(A) is
the lack of details relating to interest expenditure claim. There should not
be any dispute that the onus is placed upon the assessee to furnish the
details of expenditure claimed by it. Accordingly, we set aside the order
passed by Ld CIT(A) on this issue and restore the same to the file of the AO
for the limited purpose of examining the quantification and related details 68 ITA Nos. 453 & 1125/Mum/2023
 Growmore Research and Assets Management

of interest expenditure claimed by the assessee, who shall examine the
same in the light of discussions made supra. 26. The Ground no.17 urged by the assessee is related to the
observation of the Ld CIT(A) in directing the AO that the total income
should not be assessed lower than the surrender made by Shri Harshad S
Mehta u/s 132(4) of the Act. 26.1 During the course of search proceedings, Shri Harshad S Mehta
had submitted a letter dated 02-05-1992 to the DDIT (Investigation),
wherein he had made disclosure of RS.100 crores u/s 132(4) of the Act on
behalf of himself, his family members and group entities. The assessing
officer apportioned the above said amount of Rs.100 crores between all the
assessees of the group for assessment years 1991-92 and 1992-93 in
proportion to the Advance tax paid by them for each of the above said two
assessment years and accordingly assessed the income so apportioned in
the hands of all assessees of the group in both the years mentioned above.
During the year under consideration, the AO assessed a sum of Rs.10.92
crores on this account. 26.2 However, the contention of the assessee is that the above said
surrender of Rs.100 crores was made by Shri Harshad S Mehta under
peculiar and unique circumstances in order to buy peace from the
department, i.e., the books of accounts of all the assessees group were
incomplete and hence he could not furnish break-up details of income of
all the group members. Accordingly, it was contended that the above said
amount of Rs.100 crores included income declared on the basis of advance
tax paid by all the assessees. The Ld CIT(A) agreed with the above said
submissions of the assessee and accordingly deleted the addition of
Rs.10.92 crores, but with a rider that the total income of the assessee shall 69 ITA Nos. 453 & 1125/Mum/2023
 Growmore Research and Assets Management

not be assessed lower than the above said income. The assessee is
aggrieved by the direction so given by Ld CIT(A). 26.3 We heard the parties and perused the record. We notice that
identical kind of addition made in the hands of other assessees of the
group has been deleted by the co-ordinate benches.In the case of Smt
Deepika A Mehta vs. DCIT (ITA Nos. 379 & 1178/Mum/2023 dated 05-04-
2024 relating to AY 1992-93), identical addition was deleted following the
decision rendered by another co-ordinate bench in the case of Cascade
Holding P Ltd in ITA No.1414/M/2019 decided on 09-04-2021. The
relevant discussions made by the Tribunal in the case of Deepika A Mehta (supra) are extracted below:- In the instant case, since, we have accepted the books of account of
 Assessee, the addition based on disclosure statement of Harshad S.
 Mahta is liable to be deleted for parity of reasons. Hence, ground no.3
 of the appeal is allowed." 26.4 The facts prevailing in the instant case being identical with the
above said decisions rendered by the co-ordinate benches, we modify the
order passed by Ld CIT(A) on this issue and direct the AO to delete this 71 ITA Nos. 453 & 1125/Mum/2023
 Growmore Research and Assets Management

addition even if the total income ultimately computed by him turns out to
be less than Rs.10.92 crores. 27. The ground no.18 urged by the assessee is related to the incorrect
computation of interest u/s 234B of the Act. 27.1 The only claim of the assessee is that the AO should have deducted
"tax deductible at source" while computing interest u/s 234B of the Act.
We notice that identical claim has been allowed by the Tribunal in the
assessee‟s owncase in Asst. year 1991-92 in ITA No.259/M/2019.
Accordingly, we set aside the order passed by Ld CIT(A) on this issue and
direct the AO to compute interest u/s 234B of the Act after deducting tax
deductible at source. 28. The assessee has raised an additional grounds of appeal, wherein it
is stated that the Ld CIT(A) ought to have assessed following income under
various heads derived by the assessee based on actual transactions duly
reflected in the books of accounts:- direct the AO to compute total income by considering the above said items
of income declared by the assessee. It is pertinent to note that the
business loss mentioned above has been computed by the assessee after
considering the loss incurred in money market operations in the month of
March, 1992. The AO had disallowed the said loss and the Ld CIT(A) had
also confirmed the same. The assessee had challenged the said
disallowance in ground no.13 (supra) and we have decided the same in 72 ITA Nos. 453 & 1125/Mum/2023
 Growmore Research and Assets Management

favour of the assessee. Accordingly, we direct the AO to compute total
income of the assessee after taking into account above cited income. 29. In the result, both the appeals are treated as partly allowed.