1. The applicant Dr. Rajesh Aeren has preferred the present application
u/s 438 Cr PC for grant of anticipatory bail apprehending arrest in case FIR
No.0006/2015 registered on the complaint of Deepak Kumar and Bharat Bail Appln. 1491/2015 Page 1 of 29 Bhushan Kumar at PS EOW, Mandir Marg, New Delhi under section
406/420 read with section 120B IPC. The said complaint pertained to the
investment made by the complainant in a real estate development company
of the applicant, viz. Aeren Entertainment Zone Pvt. Ltd. (AEZPL). AESPL
was undertaking development of an integrated mall in the name "Festival
City Mall" on the outskirts of Ludhiana City in the State of Punjab
(hereinafter referred to as the project). The complainants entered into 23
agreements to sell on 30.07.2008 for purchase of 13 shops on the ground
floor and 10 shops on the first floor. The bail application preferred by the
applicant was dismissed by the learned ASJ on 30.05.2015. 2. The applicant states that he is the Vice Chairman of a group company,
namely, M/s Aeren R Enterprises Pvt. Ltd. He claims that the said company
has a reputation in the real estate field, and that the applicant belongs to a
respectable family of Delhi. He claims to be involved in the real estate
business for generations and that he has deep roots in the society and has
clean antecedents. He has been conferred a doctorate degree, i.e. a Ph.D. He
claims to be a member of reputed societies such as Rotary, Red Cross,
Khushi etc. 3. The applicant claims that he has been falsely implicated in the case,
and is a victim of conspiracy hatched by the complainants with one of the
shareholder partner of the applicant, namely, Mondon Investment Ltd.
(Mondon). He claims that the FIR has been registered at the instance of the
complainants as an arm twisting and blackmailing method to extort money
and to convert a civil dispute into a criminal one. The complainants have
already initiated civil proceeding in relation to their investment in the year Bail Appln. 1491/2015 Page 2 of 29 2009, and that the complaint/FIR has been got registered to harass the
applicant. 4. He submits that the company petition for winding up of Aeren
Enterprises Pvt. Ltd. is pending, apart from a civil suit for recovery,
declaration, permanent and mandatory injunction being C.S.(O.S.)
No.1220/2001 in this Court in relation to the transactions between the
applicant and the complainants. The applicant further submits that he joined
the investigation on several dates, i.e. 24.02.2015, 27.02.2015, 03.03.2015
and filed a detailed reply to the questionnaire before the Investigating
Officer (I.O.) submitting all the documents running into more than 300
pages. Thus, he is not required for custodial interrogation, as no document
are required to be seized as the entire dispute is based on documentary
evidence, which is already in the possession of I.O. 5. The learned ASJ dismissed the bail application of the applicant after
taking note of the submissions of the applicant and after summarizing the
transactions in question. The operative part of the said order reads as
follows: 6. This application has been pending since 28.07.2015. The applicant
was not granted any protection in the present proceedings till 06.11.2015.
On 06.11.2015, the Court took note of the submissions of the applicant that
he is currently in Dubai and shall return to Delhi on 18.11.2015 in order to
submit to the jurisdiction of this Court. The Court directed the applicant to
surrender his passport before the I.O. in the subject FIR immediately upon
arrival, and file an undertaking before this Court that he shall not leave the
country without prior permission of the Court. The Court observed that
subject to the undertaking being filed by the applicant, no coercive steps be
taken against him till the next date of hearing. Since then, the applicant has
been enjoying the interim order passed by the Court. 7. The order sheet shows that prior to the passing of the order dated
06.11.2015, and even thereafter, the applicant sought to make proposals for
amicable settlement/ liquidation of assets. At request of the parties, the
Court appointed Ms. Justice Rekha Sharma, a retired Judge of this Court as a Bail Appln. 1491/2015 Page 4 of 29 mediator with the consent of parties, so as to assist them in arriving at an
amicable settlement of all their outstanding disputes. 8. The applicant sought permission to travel to Dubai by moving Crl.
M.A. No.2123/2016. This application was allowed on 05.02.2016 subject
to, inter alia, the condition that he shall appear before the learned Mediator
with a concrete proposal for settlement of all the disputes that have led to the
registration of the subject FIR. On 26.05.2016, it was informed to the Court
by the counsel for the applicant that a concrete proposal for settlement had
been given. A copy of the same was purportedly placed on record. 9. Today, it has been informed that the company AEZPL has gone into
liquidation. The report of the learned Mediator has also been referred to.
The learned Mediator records that on 05.03.2016, counsel for the applicant
herein sought time to submit a revival scheme. On 19.03.2016, counsel for
the applicant submitted that since the said company had been wound up by
the High Court, as such the proposal for revival filed before the Company
Court was withdrawn. However, he submitted that the applicant shall
furnish a fresh revival scheme on behalf of the applicant in his individual
capacity. Despite the objections raised by the complainants/ investors, an
opportunity was granted to the applicant to submit a fresh revival scheme in
his individual capacity. The matter was adjourned before the learned
Mediator and was taken up on 07.05.2016. Once again, there was no
proposal for revival or for settlement of the claims of the complainants and
other investors placed before the learned Mediator. Consequently, the
learned Mediator sent the report dated 19.05.2016 to the Court. 10. The submission of Mr. Ohri, learned senior counsel for the petitioner
is that the complainants Deepak Kumar and Bharat Bhushan Kumar had
invested in the project with open eyes. They were not strangers to the
applicant, and had past dealings with the applicant. The amounts found due
to the complainants under an arbitral award dated 26.07.2008 were sought to
be invested in the project as it appeared to be a lucrative investment
proposition. A foreign investor had already entered into a MoU with
AEZPL and the banks had also agreed to grant a loan for a sum of Rs.100
crores for the development of the project. Several leading retail chains of
the country had also entered into a MoU with AEZPL to book space in the
mall to be developed under the project. When the agreements were entered
into, the complainants were aware that AEZPL had taken term loans from a
consortium of banks comprising of Allahabad Bank, Bank of Rajasthan and
Indian Overseas Bank. 11. Mr. Ohri submits that the mere inability to make repayment of the
investment made by the complainants cannot lead to criminality. The reason
for non-repayment of the investment of the complainants is stated to be the
default of the foreign collaborator Mondon, as they suddenly stopped
remitting instalments and did not remit the amount of 38.30 crores to
AEZPL. On account of the said default, AEZPL had to approach the
consortium of banks for rescheduling the term loan vide proposal dated
05.01.2009. Before the said proposal was approved by Allahabad Bank, at
the instance of Mondon, the account of AEZPL was declared NPA and the
proceedings under The Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Bail Appln. 1491/2015 Page 6 of 29 Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002 (SARFAESI Act )
were initiated. 12. Mr. Ohri submits that even after the passing of the order dated
06.11.2015, whenever the applicant has been called for investigation, he
joined the investigation and also provided answers to the queries raised by
the I.O. The applicant has also provided a host of documents to the I.O. to
substantiate his answers given to the queries raised by the I.O. Mr. Ohri
submits that the entire transaction is documented and there is no necessity
for custodial interrogation of the applicant. He submits that the applicant is
ready and willing to join the investigation in future as well and answer all
the queries that the I.O. may have. 13. Mr. Ohri submits that merely because the amounts involved are large-
as the project is a very large project, is no ground to require the applicant to
surrender and face custodial interrogation. There is no criminality in the
conduct of the applicant as an office bearer of AEZPL. The mere breach of
contract, assuming there is one - between the company AEZPL and the
complainants, would not give rise to a criminal action against the applicant
who was acting as an officer of AEZPL. He submits that the complainants
have completely concealed the past dealings between the complainants and
other entities of the applicant, and the fact that they had only invested the
amount found due to them in an arbitral award dated 26.07.2008, into the
project. 14. Mr. Ohri places reliance on Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre v. State
of Maharashtra & Ors. , (2011) 1 SCC 694, wherein the parameters to be Bail Appln. 1491/2015 Page 7 of 29 considered while dealing with an anticipatory bail application have been set
out. He also places reliance on Sumit Mehta v. State , (2013) 15 SCC 570.
He submits that the applicant has clean antecedents and the FIR in question
has been got registered only to cause humiliation to the applicant. He
submits that the complainant has sought to clothe the transaction with
criminality even though it is purely civil in nature. Consequently, the
applicant is entitled to protection against arrest. In this regard, he has placed
reliance on G. Sagar Suri v. State of U.P. , (2000) 2 SCC 636; Indian Oil
Corporation v. NEPC India Ltd. & Ors. , (2006) 6 SCC 736; K. Jayaram &
Anr. v. State , (2006) 134 DLT 390, and; Ashok Bhatia & Anr. v. State, Bail
Appl No.1084/2007 decided on 07.08.2007 by this Court. 15. On the other hand, the learned APP and the complainants have
vehemently opposed the grant of relief to the applicant. The learned APP
has sought to place reliance on the detailed status report dated 03.08.2015 -
pointing out that this is a case of multi victim scam involving huge amounts. 16. At this stage, I may observe that Mr. Ohri has argued that this status
report was considered by the Court while granting interim protection to the
applicant vide order dated 06.11.2015. He further submits that recently, the
applicant has answered further questions raised by the I.O. and also
submitted several documents in support of his answers. He submits that the
said status report dated 03.08.2015, therefore, cannot be looked into by the
Court. This submission of Mr. Ohri has only to be stated to be rejected. I
shall deal with this submission a little later. 17. The status report dated 03.08.2015, inter alia, reveals that AEZPL had
taken loan from the consortium banks comprising Allahabad Bank, Indian
Overseas Bank and Bank of Rajasthan (now ICICI Bank). The loan was
sanctioned on 12.07.2006. The project land measuring 54903 sq. yds.
having market value of over Rs.75 crores was to be mortgaged in favour of
the project lenders. 46% of the project area could be sold out, while the
remaining 54% was to be retained under lease rental. The lenders were to
have the first charge over the project property i.e. 54% of the unsold portion
of the project property till liquidation of the loan. AEZPL was required to
submit an unconditional undertaking that advance payment/ term payment
from the sale of space and lease rental/ advance money will be routed
through the company's account with the lenders, and the funds will be used
only towards construction of the mall in question. Under the terms of
sanction of loan, AEZPL was, inter alia, obliged to open a separate escrow
account through which all the transactions were to be routed. Thus, it was
mandatory that all sale proceeds should be deposited in the escrow account,
and the said sums be utilized only for the project mall. 18. On 31.07.2006, AEZPL entered into an agreement with Allahabad
Bank, Bank of Rajasthan and Indian Overseas Bank, wherein it was decided
that Allahabad Bank will be appointed as the escrow agent in accordance
with the terms of the term loan agreement. The status report states that the
accused company, dishonestly, received sale consideration from, inter alia,
the complainants and deposited the same in a secret account without
informing the lender banks. 19. The term loan agreement was revised on 17.03.2009 and the area
permitted to be sold was reduced from 46% to 30%. AEZPL, however,
continued to default in repayment of the term loan. Consequently, the said
account was classified as NPA on 31.12.2009. 20. Pertinently, the status report discloses the information gathered on
investigation with regard to money trail of the amount invested by the
complainants and other investors. Investments made by the complainants in
the present FIR, and several others, were not deposited in the escrow
account opened at Allahabad Bank - the escrow agent. Instead, a new
account was opened by AEZPL in State Bank of Saurashtra (now SBI),
Lodhi Road, New Delhi and the investment of Rs.19 crores was deposited in
this account. This money was diverted and misappropriated to square off
personal liabilities of the applicant. 21. So far as the applicant personally is concerned, the status report is
highly revealing. Investigation has found that the applicant is a promoter/
director and related to around 44 companies/ entities as per his own
declaration given under the Companies Act . List of the said 44 companies/
entities, particulars whereof are claimed to have been provided by the
applicant himself in Form No.24AA, also forms part of the status report. 22. Investigation has found that the money was routed and re-routed
through these companies/ entities and siphoned off from AEZPL. The
accused/ applicant had induced the victims to invest in AEZPL by executing
agreement to sell on the representation of assured returns and that they had
the right to sell their space. The assured return was paid till 31.03.2009 and Bail Appln. 1491/2015 Page 10 of 29 thereafter no payment was made. Investigation has further revealed that
AEZPL received Rs.219 crores from a foreign investor Mondon (i.e.
investment of Rs.153 crores, and in the form of equity of Rs.66 crores).
AEZPL had also received term loan of Rs.90 crores from the consortium of
banks, and investments had been made by investors to the tune of Rs.120
crores. 23. Pertinently, investigation has revealed that amounts - to the tune of
Rs.63 crores, advanced as loans by AEZPL to the entities of the applicant
have been written off as bad debts. Huge amount of monies are recoverable
by AEZPL from several entities which have to be identified by the accused/
applicant. 24. Investigation has further revealed that the applicant had spent around
Rs.50 crores (as per circle rate) to purchase several properties between
15.02.2008 and 31.03.2008. This was during the period when AEZPL
received around Rs.175 crores from Mondon. Two properties were
purchased in the name of Aeren R Township and M/s Yashwardan
Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. worth around Rs.18 crores on 22.02.2008 at village
Bonkar Dogra, Ludhiana. The trail of money when followed, revealed that
the money received from Mondon i.e. Rs.66 crores against sale of equity in
the company M/s AR Developers Pvt. Ltd. on 12.02.2008, was transferred
on the same day into the account of Aeren R Township and Yashwardan
Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. for purchase of land. 25. It is also pertinent to note that the DRT-II, Delhi, while dismissing
several applications moved by the accused company AEZPL, made Bail Appln. 1491/2015 Page 11 of 29 observations in its order dated 02.09.2014 that the banks are correct in
saying that the sale consideration received from ACIL and Aeren and
several other buyers has been siphoned off without paying the bank. 26. Investigation had also identified a sham company by the name of
Global Distributors Ltd., in which Rs.39 crores were transferred by the
accused company AEZPL and the said amount was written off.
Investigation has revealed that the said company Global Distributors Ltd.
was controlled by none other than the applicant. 27. The status report sets out the justification as to why custodial
interrogation of the application is required in the following words: The ultimate beneficiary in all the cases where debts
 have been written off is Rajesh Aeren Group. The
 custodial interrogation of accused Rajesh J Aeren is
 required to ascertain the operation of the sham/ dummy
 company M/s Global Distributors Ltd. in which Rs.39.74
 crores has been written off. The balance sheet of the
 accused company for the year ended 31.12.2009 annexed
 herewith and marked as Annexure G. The accused
 company has not filed any balance sheet after the year
 2009, and thus there is no document on record/ public
 domain disclosing or mentioning the utilization of funds
 or money trail. d. As per company own affidavit they had received Rs.120
 crores approximately in the companies account against
 sale of space but there are several anomalies such as
 investment as Global Distributors Ltd. of Rs.9 crores Bail Appln. 1491/2015 Page 13 of 29 investment of Neelam Kochar of Rs.20 crores which is
 yet to be ascertained as in which account the said money
 has been credited. The custodial interrogation is
 required to identify the accounts, if any, in which the
 money received from such creditors, to collect the
 agreements executed with such investors against sale of
 space or it is merely a book entry. e. The role of co-conspirators is to be ascertained. It is a multi victim case. More victims likely to come and
 as per affidavit furnished by the accused company Aeren
 Entertainment Zone Pvt. Ltd. before Hon'ble Delhi High
 Court there are more than 100 victims and amount
 involved is Rs.120 crores. However, as per the
 complaint, the accused company has siphoned off Rs.727
 crores and thus, the custodial interrogation is required to
 ascertain the exact amount and its utilization". 28. The status report states that the total amount of money used to square
off personal liability needs to be quantified, and the documents in relation
thereto need to be recovered, which would not be possible without the
custodial interrogation of the accused, as the accused have cleverly siphoned
off huge amounts of money through various companies. By diverting the
money required to be deposited with the escrow agent under the term loan
agreement into another account, the accused persons caused wrongful loss to
the investors and cheated the consortium of banks, who granted the term
loan. 29. The status report also mentions that Mondon - the foreign investor
has filed FIR No.157 dated 14.11.2012 against the accused. Yet another
FIR being FIR No.172/2014, PS Barakhamba Road has been filed against
the accused persons. It also reveals that the applicant/ accused did not join Bail Appln. 1491/2015 Page 14 of 29 the investigation on the dates it was fixed for, but he appeared later.
Without informing the I.O., he proceeded to Dubai in March 2015. As he
was absconding, NBW were issued against him twice from the Court of the
learned CMM, Patiala House Courts. Red corner notice had also been
issued against the applicant through CBI, Interpol Wing, New Delhi and the
name of the applicant was mentioned by Interpol in the category of "wanted
person". 30. The status report concludes by stating that Rs.32,93,31,285/- were
invested by complainants/ victims for the purpose of purchasing space in
Festival City Mall. However, on account of failure to deposit the said
amount in the escrow account as stipulated by the consortium of banks, the
complainants stand cheated as neither they have been handed over the shops
booked by them - which have since been assigned to the Asset
Reconstruction Company M/s Phoenix by the bank against payment, nor
they have been given back the amount paid to the accused for the purpose of
the shops. 31. The learned APP has also submitted that the applicant has not been
cooperating in the investigation. Some of the questions to which answers
were sought from the accused/ applicant, and the answers given by him in
response to the questionnaires, which have been referred to and relied upon
by the learned APP are as follows: ... ... .... Q12. The Chartered Accountant Mr. Sanjeev Bhargav who
 audited the balance sheet of Global Distributor Ltd. has
 stated that this company belongs/ related to your company
 AEZPL, AR Developers & AVM. Ans. I don't know Mr. Sanjeev Bhargava and can't comment
 on his statement. Q13. Rs.39 crores has been written off by AEZPL of Global
 Distributor Ltd. comment. Ans. Due to merger of AVM into AEZPL these accounts were
 to be written off. AEZPL has never paid Rs.39 crores has never
 paid/ received these amounts. These amounts were paid by
 AVM to various companies and this were discussed post merger
 board meeting of AEZPL to write off these entries to clean the
 balance sheet also please refer to schedule N of share holder Bail Appln. 1491/2015 Page 16 of 29 agreement which says the land should come at book value and
 how the balance sheet will look like is mentioned. Q14. There are properties at Village Bonkar Dogra Ludhiana
 in the name of your related/ sister concerns namely M/s
 Yashvardan Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd., Aeren R Buildcon Pvt.
 Ltd., Aeren R Township Pvt. Ltd., PMC Entertainment Pvt. Ltd.,
 Aeren R Malls Pvt. Ltd. and Yashraj Buildcon Pvt. Ltd. What is
 the status of the land at present? Is there any project in process
 at the said land. Comment. Ans. Present status of the above said lands can be checked
 from their respective management. Yes, there is project in progress in the above said land.
 Q15. Where are the title deeds of the said land? Ans. Their respective management can answer this". 32. Learned APP submits that the aforesaid answers given to the specific
queries are evasive. Pertinently, the applicant does not deny the fact that the
amounts received from the complainants Deepak Kumar and Bharat
Bhushan Kumar, and others were not deposited in the designated escrow
account of Allahabad Bank. The applicant has sought to give frivolous
reasons for not complying with the conditions of the term loan. It is further
pointed out that even in the subsequent reply sent to the same queries (which
have been tendered in Court today during the course of hearing, and which,
according to Mr. Ohri, have not been considered in the status report) are the
same. The answer given to query no.3, as extracted above, is more or less
identical with that given earlier by the applicant. This aspect has been
pointed out to Mr. Ohri during the course of hearing, and he has no
comment to offer. 33. Learned APP further points out that though the applicant stated that
he could provide documents on the basis of which he had answered query
no.3, as extracted above, he has not provided any document to show that the
deposit of the monies of the investors in an account - other than the escrow
account, was with the consent of the consortium lenders. All that the
applicant has provided now are the progress reports of the project Festival
City Mall along with the certificate of a Chartered Accountant and project
photographs. These documents were, if at all, sent after the investment
made by the investors had been diverted into an undisclosed account with
the SBI, Lodhi Road, New Delhi. The answer given by the applicant itself
shows that he is seeking to impute knowledge about the diversion of fund by
him and his company obliquely to the consortium lenders. 34. The further documents filed by the applicant purport to contain the
broad breakup of payment made in relation to the Festival City Mall project
and the ledger details of the parties/ entities to whom the monies have been
allegedly paid. These documents run into 100s of pages. However, Mr.
Ohri has not been able to point out the specific amounts paid to the
complainants/ investors, not demonstrate that the investments were
refundable, or that the same stands refunded. A perusal of the tabulation
filed along with this compilation shows that most of the payments claimed
to have been made, if made, have been made to the agencies who may have
engaged to carry out the work for the development of the mall. Moreover,
the said tabulation are not even certified by a Chartered Accountant. 35. Learned APP has pointed out that the non-cooperation of the applicant
during the course of investigation is evident from the fact that he even Bail Appln. 1491/2015 Page 18 of 29 sought to disown the Chartered Accountant who had prepared the audited
balance sheet of Global Distributor Ltd. - which is a company of the
applicant himself. When he was questioned about the work carried out by
the Chartered Accountant, Mr. Sanjeev Bhargava, he stated that he did not
know him and he cannot comment on his statement. 36. It is also pertinent to note that in subsequent reply given by the
applicant, pertaining to properties held in village Bonkar Dogra, Ludhiana in
the name of the sister concern M/s Yashvardan Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd.,
Aeren R Buildcon Pvt. Ltd., Aeren R Township Pvt. Ltd., PMC
Entertainment Pvt. Ltd., Aeren R Malls Pvt. Ltd. and Yashraj Buildcon Pvt.
Ltd., the applicant avoided giving an answer by stating that the present
status of the lands could be checked from the respective management and
that he has no information of the present management of the said companies.
This statement of the applicant demonstrates the non-cooperative attitude of
the applicant. He also responded, when asked about the title deeds of the
said land, by stating that the respective management could answer the said
query. Conveniently, the applicant has forgotten that he himself is the
management of the said companies. 37. The submission of Mr. Ohri that the Court had considered the status
report dated 03.02.2015 before passing the order dated 06.11.2015 and,
therefore, the same cannot be used by the respondent for the purpose of
opposing the present application, has no merit. Firstly, a perusal of the order
dated 06.11.2015 does not show that the Court examined the said status
report before passing the order dated 06.11.2015. Secondly, the Court did
not pass a detailed and reasoned order while granting interim protection to Bail Appln. 1491/2015 Page 19 of 29 the applicant. A perusal of the order shows that the said order came to be
passed on the Court being informed that the applicant shall return from
Dubai to submit to the jurisdiction of this Court and that he shall remain
present in Court on 23.11.2015. It was for this reason that the Court granted
interim protection to the applicant subject to the condition that he shall
surrender his passport to the I.O. and also give an undertaking that he shall
not leave the country without prior permission of the Court. In any event,
the same being only an ad-interim order of protection cannot be relied upon
to say that this Court is bound to continue the same even after hearing
detailed arguments on both sides. 38. The submission of Mr. Ohri that the said status report does not take
into account the subsequent developments, namely, the fact that the
applicant has given further answers to the questionnaire along with the
documents, also has no merit. Firstly, it is not the case of Mr. Ohri that the
contents of the first status report stand belied. Though the same has not
been referred to and relied upon, I find that the applicant has filed a counter
to the status report filed by the State. A perusal of the same shows that there
is no serious challenge to the allegations made against the applicant on the
basis of the investigation carried out by the investigating agency. 39. A further status report dated 24.05.2016 has been tendered by the
learned APP. This status report is a short report, and it does not seek to
resile from the earlier status report. In fact, the same is reiterated inasmuch,
as, it is stated that the case is a multi-victim case and the amount involved is
huge. 40. It is clear that the modus-operandi of the applicant, after obtaining
interim protection on 06.11.2015 has been to keep dilly-dallying and not
letting the matter proceed. It is clear from the status report that the applicant
has not been joining investigation and cooperating with the investigating
agency, and at his own sweet will, he has been tendering documents. The
whole idea seems to be to keep the investigating agency embroiled in the
maize of documents, so that the hearing of this application does not proceed.
However, as noticed above, even these latest replies submitted by the
applicant to the questionnaire contain evasive replies which are more or less
verbatim the same as the earlier replies given by the applicant. 41. The status report, which has been taken note of hereinabove, is highly
revealing. As per the status report, right from the beginning, the amounts
were received from the investors/ complainants, and appropriated, in
contravention of the terms of the term loan agreement received from the
consortium of banks. The status report also shows that there are serious
allegations of misappropriation and diversion of large amounts of monies by
the company of the applicant AEZPL into other home grown entities,
whereafter the said advances were written off as bad debts. Information with
regard to the companies in the names of which lands have been purchased
has been suppressed from the investigating agency by claiming that the
management of those entities would be able to answer the queries.
According to the investigating agency, the applicant himself is managing the
said companies. 42. The justification offered by the State for custodial interrogation of the
applicant taken note of hereinabove appear to be completely in order. Reliance placed by the applicant on Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre (supra), Sumit Mehta (supra), G. Sagar Suri (supra), Indian Oil
Corporation (supra), K. Jayaram (supra), and Ashok Bhatia (supra), is of
no avail in the facts of the present case. 43. In Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia (supra), the Supreme Court disagreed with
the Full Bench judgment of the Punjab High Court giving restrictive
meaning to Section 438 Cr.P.C. The Supreme Court held that the question
whether to grant anticipatory bail depends for its answer on a variety of
circumstances, the cumulative effective of which must enter into the judicial
verdict. Any one single circumstance cannot be treated as of universal
validity or as necessarily justifying the grant or refusal of bail. The High
Court or the Court of Session - to whom the application for anticipatory bail
is made, ought to be left free in the exercise of their judicial discretion to
grant bail if they consider it fit so to do on the particular facts and
circumstances of the case and on such conditions as the case may warrant,
on considerations similar to those mentioned in Section 437 or which are
generally considered to be relevant under Section 439 of the Code. The
judicial discretion vested under Section 438 should not be read down by
reading into the statute, conditions that are not to be found therein. The
Supreme Court held that there is no warrant for reading into Section 438 the
conditions and limitations subject to which bail can be granted under Section
437(1). The Supreme Court in paragraph 41 of its aforesaid decision, inter
alia, observed: 44. In Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre (supra), the Supreme Court, inter
alia, observed: 110. The Law Commission in July 2002 has severely criticised
 the police of our country for the arbitrary use of power of
 arrest which, the Commission said, is the result of the vast
 discretionary powers conferred upon them by this Code. The
 Commission expressed concern that there is no internal
 mechanism within the Police Department to prevent misuse of
 law in this manner and the stark reality that complaint lodged
 in this regard does not bring any result. The Commission
 intends to suggest amendments in the Criminal Procedure Code and has invited suggestions from various quarters. Reference is
 made in this article to the 41st Report of the Law Commission
 wherein the Commission saw "no justification" to require a
 person to submit to custody, remain in prison for some days
 and then apply for bail even when there are reasonable
 grounds for holding that the person accused of an offence is not
 likely to abscond or otherwise misuse his liberty. Discretionary
 power to order anticipatory bail is required to be exercised
 keeping in mind these sentiments and spirit of the judgments of
 this Court in Sibbia case[(1980) 2 SCC 565 : 1980 SCC (Cri)
 465] and Joginder Kumar v. State of U.P.[(1994) 4 SCC 260 : 111. No inflexible guidelines or straitjacket formula can be Bail Appln. 1491/2015 Page 24 of 29 provided for grant or refusal of anticipatory bail. We are
 clearly of the view that no attempt should be made to provide
 rigid and inflexible guidelines in this respect because all
 circumstances and situations of future cannot be clearly
 visualised for the grant or refusal of anticipatory bail. In
 consonance with the legislative intention the grant or refusal of
 anticipatory bail should necessarily depend on the facts and
 circumstances of each case. As aptly observed in the
 Constitution Bench decision in Sibbia case [(1980) 2 SCC 565 : 112. The following factors and parameters can be taken into
 consideration while dealing with the anticipatory bail: 113. Arrest should be the last option and it should be restricted
 to those exceptional cases where arresting the accused is
 imperative in the facts and circumstances of that case. The
 court must carefully examine the entire available record and
 particularly the allegations which have been directly attributed
 to the accused and these allegations are corroborated by other
 material and circumstances on record." 45. As observed by the Supreme Court in Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia (supra)
an order granting anticipatory bail cannot be allowed to become a charter of
lawlessness and a weapon to stifle prompt investigation into the offences. 46. In Omkar Prasad Mishra v. State , 2012 I AD (Del) 821, the property
involved was situated in a posh locality of Delhi, namely, Golf Links. The Bail Appln. 1491/2015 Page 26 of 29 claim of the accused was premised on documents which, prima-facie,
appeared to be forged or purported to have been executed after the death of
the original owner of the property. When an application for mutation was
made to the L&DO in respect of the plot, the L&DO got the FIR registered
for the offence of cheating and forgery, and for using forged documents as
genuine. The applicant in that case had failed to produce the original title
documents, namely, the gift deed on the basis of which he was claiming
ownership. In this background, the learned Judge observed: 47. In Sudhir v. State & Anr., Crl . A. No.1286-87/2015 decided on
01.10.2015, the Supreme Court relied upon an earlier decision in State of
A.P. Vs. Bimal Krishna Kundu and Another , (1997) 8 SCC 104, wherein
the Supreme Court had, inter alia, observed: 49. The custodial interrogation of the applicant, in the light of the
aforesaid legal position; in the facts of the present case, and; the conduct of
the applicant, in my view, is necessary to unravel the truth and to unearth the
money trail and the assets which may have been acquired by the alleged
diversion and defalcation of funds. Consequently, the present application is
dismissed. 50. It is made clear that this Court has examined the facts of the case at a
prima-facie stage for the purpose of consideration of the present application
and has not returned any finding of fact either in favour of the applicant or in
favour of the State. The Trial Court shall arrive at its own findings on the
basis of evidence adduced before it and shall not be influenced by the prima-
facie observations made in this order. VIPIN SANGHI, J

JULY 19, 2016
sr Bail Appln. 1491/2015 Page 29 of 29