PER VINEETA RAI, MEMBER

 

  

 

Shri Jaswant Singh
(hereinafter referred to as the Petitioner) has filed R.P. Nos. 2777/07 and
2778/07 and M/s Tata Engineering & Locomotive Co.Ltd. (hereinafter referred
to as Respondent No.1) has filed R.P. No. 4057/07 being aggrieved by the
single order of State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Delhi
(hereinafter referred to as the State Commission) in Appeal Nos.A-269/2004
and A-501/2004. Since the parties
and facts in these revision petitions are the same, we propose to dispose them
of with a common order by taking the facts from R.P. No.2778 of 2007. The Petitioner
in his complaint before the District Forum had stated that he had purchased a
brand new Tata Indica Car (Model 2002) manufactured by Respondent No.1, for a
sum of Rs.2,71,040/- from its dealer,
M/s Malwa Automobiles(P) Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as Respondent No.2). Soon after the delivery of the vehicle, it
developed mechanical problems and the Petitioner, therefore, approached
Respondent No.1 to rectify the same. It
was revealed later that the vehicle that he had purchased was not a brand new
one manufactured in 2002 as assured by Respondent No.2 but was manufactured in 2000. This was apparent from the Chassis
No.600232FZZP33595 wherein the Code FZZP stands for the year 2000 and not for
2002. However, all the invoices and
other documents given by the Respondent No.2 to the Petitioner deceitfully
showed the year of manufacture of the said Car as 2002 instead of 2000. When confronted with this, Respondent No.2
refused to entertain the Petitioners genuine grievance and, therefore, he
approached Respondent No.1 i.e. the manufacturer and there also he could not
get any redressal. Further, Respondent
No.1 was also not able to rectify the defects in the running of the
vehicle. Being aggrieved by the
negligence and callous approach of both Respondents, Petitioner issued legal
notices to them with no avail except for some false assurances. Therefore, the Petitioner filed a complaint
before the District Forum on grounds of deficiency in service and unfair trade
practice and request that the Respondents be directed to pay the Petitioner the
entire amount paid by him for purchase of the car, Rs.2 lakhs for mental pain
and agony along with interest @ 24% per annum. The
above contentions of the Petitioner were denied by Respondents. According to Respondent No.2, the Petitioner
never came to his showroom and only a broker came to purchase the vehicle and
that too after making a part-payment. Further, no facts were concealed by the Respondent from the Petitioner
and from the Chassis number which was stated in the invoice, it was clear that
the vehicle was not manufactured in 2002. It was further stated that the prevalent market price of the vehicle in
question at the time of its purchase was Rs.3,22,192/-, but the Petitioner was
given a discount of Rs.51,152/- since the vehicle was manufactured in the year
2000. Respondent No.1 who also denied
Petitioners allegations stated that it had never concealed from Respondent
No.2, the dealer, that the vehicle was manufactured in 2000. In fact, a circular had been issued by
Respondent No.1 where it was specifically mentioned that these old cars are
being disposed of and special discounts are being given along with the price
list showing the difference between the cars manufactured in the year 2002 and
2002. Therefore, Respondent No.1 as a
manufacturer was not guilty of any deficiency of service. The responsibility if any lay with the
Respondent No.2 who is not an agent of Respondent No.1. The
District Forum after hearing both parties allowed the complaint by holding both
the Respondents guilty of deficiency in service and unfair trade practice and
directed that Respondents jointly and severally return the entire amount of
Rs.2,71,040/- to the Petitioner after taking back the vehicle in question,
Rs.50,000/- as compensation was awarded on account of mental agony and
harassment and Rs.1,000/- as litigation cost. The District Forum further directed that in order to eliminate the
possibility of such unfair trade practice by the Respondents and in the
interest of the consumer, Respondent No.1(manufacturer) will fix a plate
beneath the bonnet of every car giving the year of manufacturing in place of
the code numbers and similar information should also be specifically stated in
the invoice issued by dealers to customers. Aggrieved
by this order, both Respondents filed separate appeals before the State
Commission which were dismissed through a common order by observing as follows: