Judgment pronounced through Video Conference. The original
 application is disposed of with directions vide separate Judgment. Pending interlocutory application, if any, shall stand disposed of. Sd/- Justice K. Ramakrishnan, JM

 Sd/- Dr. Satyagopal Korlapati, EM
O.A. No.186/2020 (SZ)
02nd September, 2022. Mn. Item No.01:- Court No.1

 BEFORE THE NATIONAL GREEN TRIBUNAL
 SOUTHERN ZONE, CHENNAI

 (Through Video Conference)

 Original Application No. 186 of 2020 (SZ)

IN THE MATTER OF

 Tribunal on its own motion-SUO MOTU based on the
 News item in The New Sunday Express Newspaper
 Dated: 20.07.2020, "Ranipet Residents health at risk due to
 Pollution; Chromium waste killing agriculture in Ranipet
 Poses long-term health risks." And 1) Union of India
 Rep. by its Secretary
 Ministry of Environment and Forests and Climate Change,
 Indira Paryavaran Bhawan,
 Jorbagh Road, New Delhi - 110 003. 2) Central Pollution Control Board
 Rep. by its Chairman,
 'Parivesh Bhawan', East Arjun Nagar,
 Shahdara, Delhi-110 032. 3) The Principal Secretary to Government
 Public Works Department,
 Govt. Secretariat, Fort St. George,
 Chennai - 600 009. 4) The Principal Secretary to Govt. of Tamil Nadu
 Health and Family Welfare Department,
 Govt. Secretariat, Fort St. George
 Chennai, Tamil Nadu - 600 009. 5) The Secretary to Govt. of Tamil Nadu
 Department of Environment,
 Govt. Secretariat, Fort St. George
 Chennai, Tamil Nadu - 600 009. 6) Additional Chief Secretary to Govt. of Tamil Nadu
 Municipal Administration and Water Supply Department
 Govt. Secretariat, Fort St. George
 Chennai, Tamil Nadu - 600 009. 7) The Principal Secretary to Govt. of Tamil Nadu
 Industries Department
 Govt. Secretariat, Fort St. George
 Chennai, Tamil Nadu - 600 009. 8) The Chairman
 Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board,
 No.76, Anna Salai, Guindy,
 Chennai, Tamil Nadu - 600 032. 9) State Ground And Surface Water Resources Data Centre
 Rep. by its Chief Engineer,
 Tharamani, Chennai - 600 113. 10) The District Collector
 Ranipet District,
 Collectorate, Kellys Road,
 Navalpur, Ranipet- 632 401. HON'BLE Mr. JUSTICE K. RAMAKRISHNAN, JUDICIAL MEMBER

 HON'BLE Dr. SATYAGOPAL KORLAPATI, EXPERT MEMBER

Whether the Judgment is allowed to be published on the Internet - Yes. Whether the Judgment is to be published in the All India NGT Reporter - Yes. JUDGMENT

 Delivered by Justice K. Ramakrishnan, Judicial Member 1. The above case has been Suo Motu registered by this Tribunal on the
 basis of the newspaper report published in 'The New Sunday Express'
 daily dated 20.07.2020 under the caption "Ranipet residents'
 health at risk due to pollution; Chromium waste killing
 agriculture in Ranipet, poses long-term health risks". 2. It was alleged in the newspaper report that people in Ranipet area
 are facing great danger of pollution being caused on account of
 industrial pollution. This has been a concern for a long period which
 was considered by the Hon'ble Apex Court in Vellore Citizens Page 3 of 81 Welfare Forum Vs Union of India & Ors.1 and after considering
 the factual situation after getting the report from the committee
 appointed by the Hon'ble Apex Court, issued stringent direction to the
 regulated authorities even to close down the industries which were
 responsible for causing pollution, till they made necessary pollution
 control mechanism to avoid such pollution to the water bodies. 3. It was also seen from the newspaper report that large scale
 Chromium bearing waste was being dumped in the areas which
 affected the health of the people, as it had caused contamination of
 the water bodies nearby. It was also mentioned in the newspaper
 report that it was scientifically proved factor that Chromium deposit is
 carcinogenic in nature which is a base cause for causing cancer
 among the public. Though certain studies have been made by the
 persons interested in protecting environment regarding how the
 Chromium contamination in and around Tamil Nadu Chromate
 Chemicals Limited (TCCL) in S IPC OT Industrial Estate, Vellore
 District, has to be dealt with, despite, on ground level, no effective
 steps have been taken for remedying the situation. Further, an
 action plan for abatement of pollution in critically polluted
 area/S IPC OT Industrial Complex, Ranipet was prepared by the Tamil
 Nadu Pollution Control Board. But in spite of that, no effective steps
 have been taken for implementation of the action plan to remedy the
 situation to provide permanent solution for the people residing at
 Ranipet, either by the State Government or by the regulators. 4. On going through the allegations made in the newspaper report, since
 the Tribunal was satisfied that there arose a substantial question of
 environment, as Chromium contaminated area will have great health
 impact on residents, admitted the matter and appointed a Joint
 Committee comprising of (i) a Senior Scientist from the Ministry of
 Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEF&CC), Regional office,
 Chennai, (ii) a Senior Scientist from the Central Pollution Control
 Board, Regional Office, Chennai, (iii) Superintending Engineer from
 Public Works Department (Water Resources Organisation), (iv) Chief
 Engineer or a Senior Officer deputed from the Office of the State
 Ground and Surface Water Resources Data Centre, Chennai, (v)
 District Collector, Ranipet District or a Senior Officer not below the 1 (1996) 5 SCC 647 Page 4 of 81 rank of Assistant Collector or Sub Divisional Magistrate deputed by
 the District Collector, (vi) a Senior Officer from the State Industries
 Department and (vi) a Senior officer from Tamil Nadu Pollution
 Control Board as deputed by the Chairman to inspect the Chromium
 contaminated site at Ranipet and submit a factual as well as action
 taken report, if there is any violation found. 5. The Joint Committee was directed to go into the question regarding
 the source of pollution and the ground water quality in that area and
 what are all the remedial measures already taken in view of the
 directions given by the Hon'ble Apex Court in Vellore Citizen 2 Welfare Forum Vs Union of India & Ors. for disposal of
 hazardous substance generated by the industries and its violation,
 the nature of action taken by the regulating authorities against the
 person who are committing such repeated violations, action plan that
 has been prepared and its stage of implementation and its result and
 whether any alternate provision has been made for providing clean
 potable water to the people in Ranipet, if it is infected by Chromium
 and Lead and submit a report including assessment of environmental
 compensation for the damage caused and the remedial measures to
 be taken to rectify the same and restore the water bodies and soil
 from pollution. 6. The Joint Committee was also directed to conduct the water analysis
 of the nearby water bodies and also ground water that is being
 supplied to the people in the locality. They were also directed to
 assess the hazard quotient of that area and prepare an action plan
 with long and short-term measures with lesser timelines, so as to
 remedy the situation and provide safety to the people residing
 therein. They were also directed to inspect the individual industries
 in the industrial estate to ascertain as to whether all environmental
 pollution control measures have been provided and whether they are
 strictly adhering to the environmental laws and if there is any
 violation found, then they were directed to take action against those
 violators including issuing necessary direction for closure until
 remedial measures are taken which will improve the situation apart
 from imposing environmental compensation against those violating
 industries. (1996) 5 SCC 647 Page 5 of 81 7. The Central Pollution Control Board, Regional Office, Chennai was
 designated as the nodal agency for co-ordination and also for
 providing necessary logistics for this purpose. Thereafter, the matter
 has been adjourned from time to time at the request of the parties. 8. The Central Pollution Control Board has filed the status report dated
 24.11.2020, received through e-mail dated 24.11.2020 which reads
 as follows:- a. Excavation, treatment and disposal of contaminated soil and
waste in an on-site secured landfill at about Rs. 194 crore; b. Groundwater remediation by installing abstraction system
(pump and treat system) along with a common water treatment plant
for chromium contaminated water at an estimated cost of Rs. 12 crore; 15. It is submitted that CPC B vide letter dated 11.01.2019 was
forwarded the final DPR to TNPCB with request to taken-up remediation
works. A template of bid document was also forwarded to State
Government and TNPCB vide CPC B letter dated 13.02.2019 for
execution of remediation works as per DPR prepared under NCEF project
(a copy of said letter is annexed at Annexure-II). 16. It is submitted that since NCEF Project of MoEF&CC has been
discontinued by Government of India, funds for execution of
remediation works (as per the DPR) may be arranged by Government of
Tamil Nadu/ TNPCB. Since the TCCL was operated by State government
department and also by few private entities, funds for remediation may
be apportioned to both TN State as well as the other responsible parties,
who operated the plant. 17. It is submitted that outlines of the findings of the site
investigation, human health risk assessment study carried out under Page 7 of 81 NCEF project including technology screening, the approach for
 remediation of contaminated soil, sediment, surface water &
 groundwater both at on-site and off-site of TCCL area at Ranipet, Tamil
 Nadu is annexed at Annexure - III. PRAYER
 It is humbly prayed before this Hon‟ble Tribunal in the interest of
 Justice that this Hon‟ble Tribunal may be pleased to pass an order to; i) Direct government of TN State to take-up remediation of TCCL
 contaminated area being the responsible party who operated the plant.
 The remediation work may be executed as per the DPR prepared by CPC B. ii) The cost of remediation works may be borne by TN State who
 may also recover a portion of the cost from other responsible parties. iii) Remediation work may be executed as per authorization and
 supervision of TNPCB. TNPCB may also engage any competent
 consultant to monitor and verify the works. iv) State Level Monitoring Committee (SLMC) may be constituted
 by TNPCB to monitor and supervise the remediation works. v) CPC B may provide technical assistance and also verify the
 remediation works as and when required. vi) The Committee constituted by Hon‟ble NGT in its Suo-Moto
 may be granted six months time to inspect individual units which
 comprises of 369 units and file their report. (Reference to para 12 of the
 order dated 28.9.2020)
 Pass any such and further order, as this Hon‟ble Tribunal may
 deem fit and proper in the facts and circumstances of the case." 9. On the basis of the report submitted by the CPC B, this Tribunal had
 passed the following order:- They wanted six months time for filing the status report. But three
 months have already lapsed after appointing the committee, but not
 even an interim report has been filed for this purpose. So under such Page 8 of 81 circumstances we feel that three more months‟ time can be given to the
 committee to proceed with the work and file a report. If they are not
 able to file the final report, at least, they have to file an interim report
 regarding the nature of work done by them and the nature of studies
 conducted by them etc., 13. In the mean time, the respective State Government
 Departments are also directed to file their independent written response
 to the allegations made and the steps taken from their side for the
 purpose of mitigating the issue especially in view of the directions given
 by Hon‟ble Apex Court in Vellore Citizens‟ case ( Welfare Forum Vs Union
 of India and others (1996) 5 SCC 647) as mentioned above. 14. They are also expected to mention in their written response
 as to whether the steps taken by them are effective and whether any
 improvement has caused in controlling the pollution and degradation
 caused on account of the pollution which was found in the above said
 case." 10. Thereafter, the matter was taken up on 16.08.2021 along with O.A.
 No.131 of 2020 (SZ) filed by another person alleging that pollution
 being caused to the water bodies on account of certain industries,
 and on that day, this Tribunal considered the status report submitted
 by the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board dated 18.03.2021, e-filed
 on 23.03.2021 and extracted in Para (6) of the order which reads as
 follows:- of the above CETPs , 1 No. of Individual Effluent Treatment Plant (IETP) are
Located in the S IPC OT - SIDCO Ranipet area. The other 6 IETPs are located
outside of S IPC OT area. All the member tannery units are connected
with CETPs where the pretreated trade effluent from the member tannery
is discharged through CETP conveyance main pipe line for further
treatment so as to achieve the Zero Liquid Discharge (ZLD) system so as
to comply the directions issued by Hon'ble Apex Court with respect to the
case of Vellore Citizens case Welfare Forum Vs Union of India and others (1996) 5 SCC 647) forum from time to time. The pre treated trade effluent
generated member tannery units is discharged through CETP conveyance
pipeline after the pre-treatment system and further the partially treated
trade effluent is treated with Effluent treatment plant (ETP) consisting of
primary and secondary (biological treatment) and tertiary treatment
system so as to reduce the pollution load for the subsequent further
treatment followed by Reverse Osmosis and Reject Management System.
In the R.O system, the R.O permeate water is being reused and recycled
by the member tannery units , Reject is evaporated through Multiple Effect
Evaporator (MEE) and recovered salt from the MEE system is being bagged
and stored within the closed shed for further scientific disposal. Similarly
the other kind units are also having similar system of treatments so as
to achieve Zero Liquid Discharge system at all times. 6. It is respectfully submitted that the TNPCB has initiated
the serious action on the violating industries which are located in
the Critically Polluted Area (CEPI Area), S IPC OT, Ranipet and imposed an
Environmental Compensation (EC) of Rs. 666.38 lakhs so as to comply
Hon'ble NGT Case (SZ) of 1038/2018 Dt. 14.11.2019 vide Board's
Lr.T4/TNPCB/F.2643/CEPI/ECNLR-26/2020 Dt.28.01.2020 and further
small industry associations have obtained the stay on the impugned orders
dt. 10.08.2019 and 14.11.2019 passed by the Hon'ble National Green
Tribunal, Principle Bench, New Delhi from the Hon'ble Supreme Court of
India. Further an Environmental Compensation of Rs. 18.6 Lakhs and Rs.
17.40 Lakhs was also imposed for repeated violation & non compliance of
consent order conditions to the 17 category industry of Ms Thirumalai
Chemicals Ltd., S IPC OT, Ranipet vide Board's Proceeding
No.T5/TNPCB/F.0892/LR/RL/W/2019 Dated: 13.11.2019 and Board Letter
Dt. 08.01.2021 respectively. The unit has also remitted the above
Environmental Compensation. Similarly another 17 category unit in the
same location of Ranipet S IPC OT. The unit of M/s. Malladi Drugs &
Pharmaceuticals unit-III, S IPC OT, Ranipet an Environmental Compensation
of Rs.47.10 Lakhs was imposed vide Board's letter Dt. 08.01.2021 for non
compliance of the consent order conditions and violation caused by the
unit. The unit has also remitted the same. In view of the above it is
respectfully submitted to the Hon'ble NGT(SZ) that the TNPCB is
continuously monitoring the industries located in the S IPC OT-SIDCO
Ranipet area and taking the action on the industries so as to comply with
various directions issued by the Hon'ble NGT orders. 7. It is respectfully submitted that the M/s Tamil Nadu
Chromates and Chemicals Ltd (TCCL), a defunct unit located at Ranipet
was operated as joint venture with TIDCO between the years 1975 to
1988 and as a private limited company thereafter the unit
manufactured sodium bichromate, basic chromium sulphate and sodium
sulphate using chromate ore. 8. It is respectfully submitted that the unit stopped its
operation from the year 1995. About 2.2 Lakh Tonnes of chromium
bearing hazardous waste generated during process activity was dumped at
the backyard of the premises on open land over an extent of 2 hectares
to a height of 3 to 5 meters. The leachate generation from the Page 10 of 81 chromium bearing hazardous waste of stockpile is causing chrome
 contamination of land, ground water in that area. 9. It is respectfully submitted that the TNPCB has initiated a series
 of legal actions which includes the issue of closure, directions under Sec. 5 of EPA, 1986, filling of cases in the Hon'ble High Court of Judicature at
 Madras. However, no progress on remediation could be achieved as there
 was change in the company management and difficulties being
 encountered in tracing & recovery of funds for implementation. 10. It is respectfully submitted that the MOEF & CC, GOI, New Delhi
 has initiated the project on remediation of hazardous waste contaminated
 areas in the country (8 sites) with CPC B, Delhi as an executing agency
 under the National Clean Energy Fund (NCEF) during 2011 which includes
 chromium contaminated area at TCCL, Ranipet. Accordingly M/s ERM India
 Pvt. Ltd has conducted detailed study at contaminated site and submitted
 DPR and also furnished additional information based on issues raised
 during the meeting held on 14.10.2019 under the chairmanship of Chief
 Secretary, Govt. of Tamil Nadu. Total estimated costs for remediation work
 at M/s TCCL is worked out as Rs.556 Crores. Meantime , Additional Chief
 secretary to Government (ACS), Environment and Forest department and
 the Chairman, TNPCB inspected the dump site on 20.08.2020 and
 subsequently addressed to the Chairman vide D.O Letter Dt. 25.08.2020
 and mentioned that the leachate generation from the chromium bearing
 hazardous waste stockpile which is kept in open and there is possibility of
 further environmental degradation and it was stated that the
 implementation of the remediation proposal given by the ERM by mobilizing
 funding will take longer time, instructed to follow certain temporary
 measures as below, Cover the entire dump area with HDPE sheet so as to
 influence both the erosive agent (water) and the medium being
 eroded (chromium)
 Providing garland all around the site so as to divert the rain
 water runoff from the site 11. In view of the above the JCEE (M)/TNPCB Vellore has submitted
 the letter to Member Secretary, TNPCB vide his letter No.
 JCEE/TNPCB/TCC/compl/2020/Dated 09.09.2020. The
 Member secretary/TNPCB vide memo NO.T4/TMPCB/F.
 005718/TCCLI VLR/2020 dated 29.9.2020 has called the detailed report on
 remediation of contaminated site with time bound action Plan & Budgetary
 estimate based on the inspection of the TCCL site by Additional Chief
 secretary to Government, Environment and Forest department and the
 Chairman, TNPCB with the following: 12. It is respectfully submitted that the Tamilnadu Pollution Control
 Board has taken series of continuous remedial action to protect the ground
 water quality and taken action against the erring industries in and around
 the Ranipet area and complying the orders passed by the Hon'ble Supreme
 Court of India in SLP filed by Vellore Citizens case Welfare Forum Vs Union
 of India and others (1996) 5 SCC 647." 11. This Tribunal also considered the report submitted by the Joint
 Committee signed by some of the members with date 15.04.2021, e-
 filed on 16.04.2021 and extracted in Para (10) of the order which
 reads as follows:- Chromium waste killing agriculture in Ranipet, poses long-term health risks". In the matter of
OA no. 186 of 2020 constituted a committee and directed that; 10. The committee is directed to go into the question regarding the source of pollution and
the ground water quality in that area and what are all the remedial measures already taken
in view of the directions given by the Hon‟ble Apex Court in Vellore Citizens Case ( Welfare
Forum Vs Union of India and others (1996) 5 SCC 647) disposal of hazardous substance
generated by the industries and its violation the nature of violation taken by the regulating
authorities against the person who are committing such repeated violations, action plan that
has been prepared and its stage of implementation and its result and whether any alternate
provision has been made for providing clean potable water to the locality of the people, if it
is infected Chromium and Lead and submit a report including assessment of environmental Page 12 of 81 compensation for the damage caused and the remedial measures to be taken to rectify the
same and restore the water bodies from pollution. 11. The committee is also directed to conduct the water analysis test of the nearby water
bodies and also ground water that is being supplied to the people in the locality. They can
also assess the hazard quotient of that area and prepare an action plan with longer and
shorter measures with lesser timelines, so as to remedy the situation. 12. They are also directed to inspect the individual industries in the industrial estate to
ascertain as to whether all environmental laws mechanism are being strictly adhere to by
them and if there is any violation found then, they are directed to take action against those
violators including issuing necessary direction for closure until remedial measures are taken
which will improve the situation apart from environmental compensation against those
violating industries. „ 13. The Central Pollution Control Board, Regional Office, Chennai will be the nodal agency
for co-ordination and for providing all necessary logistics for this purpose. 14. The committee is directed to submit the report to this Tribunal on or before
25.11.2020..." As per the scope of the direction given by Hon'ble Tribunal, Central Pollution Control Board
has already taken up the study for preparation of Detailed Project Reports (DPRs) for
remediation of contaminated areas in the country under National Clean Energy Fund (NCEF)
project. The chromium contaminated area at Ranipet, Tamil Nadu has been identified as one
of the priority area requiring remediation. In this regard, a status report was filed by CPC B on
24th November 2020 and requested six-month time for carrying out inspection of the
industries located in the S IPC OT, Ranipet. Further, Hon'ble Tribunal in its order dt. 03.02.2021 stated and directed as follows; They wanted six months time for filing the status report. But three months have already
lapsed after appointing the committee, but not even an interim report has been filed for this
purpose. So under such circumstances we feel that three more months‟ time can be given to
the committee to proceed with the work and file a report. If they are not able to file the final
report, at least, they have to file an interim report regarding the nature of work done by them
and the nature of studies conducted by them etc..." The committee is directed to submit the report on or before 19.04.2021. 2. Constitution of Committee

In compliance of the Hon'ble Tribunal the committee constituted with the following
members; 1. Sub-Collector, Ranipet (Rep. District Collector) 2. Scientist D, MoEF&CC, RO, Chennai 3. Scientist D, CPC B, RD, Chennai 4. Joint Chief Environmental Engineer, O/o JCEE (M), TNPCB, Vellore 5. Superintending Engineer, WRD, Pennaiyar Basin Circle, Tiruvanamalai 6. Executive Engineer, Ground Water Department, Vellore 7. Project Officer, S IPC OT, Ranipet 8. Deputy Director, DISH, Vellore 3. Committee Meeting

Upon the constitution of the committee, a meeting was conducted on 16.12.2020 at
Collectorate Office headed by the District Collector, Ranipet. Discussion about Chromium dumpsite: To identify the sources of oxalic acid, inlet effluent samples of Common Effluent Page 16 of 81 Treatment Plant (CETP) were collected and same is found, which shows the
 oxalic acid pollution may be due to Tanneries/CETPs earlier/past discharge. 2) Presence of Hexavalent Chromium were also identified in the water bodies,
 which is due to the continuous seepage water flowing from openly stored sludge
 present in the closed unit of M/s Tamilnadu Chromate and Chemical Ltd.,
 (TCCL). 3) Untreated sewage flow from nearby residential areas is also polluting the water
 bodies. 4) The drains/ channels connecting to the water bodies belongs to S IPC OT
 industrial area as well as the other local bodies found grown with bushes/plants,
 which results industries taking chances for illegal discharge. 5) The surface water bodies namely Puliyankannu lake, Karai lake, Sitheri lake and
 their drains were not properly maintained. Due to improper maintenance of
 drains, the water flow is affected, which leads to formation of wetland. 4. About M/s Tamilnadu Chromate & Chemical Ltd., (M/s TCCL), Ranipet

A brief history obtained from S IPC OT, Ranipet about the M/s TCCL ownership. M/s TCCL,
is a TIDCO joint venture company promoted during 1972 in association with Sh. K. K.
Mohiadeen for implanting the project for the manufacture of Basic Chromium Sulphate. The
promoters agreement was terminated due to equity contribution failure. Thereafter, the
company was managed by TIDCO through its nominee directors till Jan 1989 except for
initial two years period of operation. During 1988, TIDCO disinvested its shareholding in
favour of Sh. C. V. Sridhar, who was appointed as CMD of TCC to Sh. Ashok
Balasubramanian. The plant was not operated after 1995-96 as TNPCB issued notice to stop
production until the solid waste is disposed off. TNPCB in its letter to Industries Department stated that 1.52 lakhs tonnes (out of 2.27 lakhs
tonnes of chrome sludge) was generated during 1975 to 1988 when the management was with
TIDCO and the balance 0.75 lakhs tonnes was generated during management of Sh. C. V.
Sridhar and Sh. Ashok Balasubramaniam. Major 67% of waste generated during TIDCO
tenure. Further details of progress on criminal prosecution & steps for remediation initiated by
TNPCB against TCC & promotors is enclosed as Annexure III. 5. Present Status of Remediation of Chromium Dumpsite

During the committee visit, it is observed that the seepage from the dumpsite is flowing
through the drains and meeting to the surface water bodies (Karai Lake and its over flow
finally meets River Palar). Remediation process is not carried out so for. It is submitted that in compliance to the direction of Hon'ble NGT, Principal Bench, New
Delhi order dt. 29.02.2021 in the matter OA No. 804/2017 in the matter of Rajiv Narayan &
Ors. Vs. Union of India & Ors. with respect to contaminated sites in India, CPC B has
convened a meeting with SPCBs/PCCs on 16.03.2021 to discuss Action Plan with roadmap
and specific timelines for carrying out preliminary/detailed site investigation, preparation of
DPRs, execution of remediation works, lifting of hazardous waste. Issues discussed w.r.t to
State of Tamil Nadu is given below

Tamil Nadu: There is 01 contaminated site for which DPR has been prepared and
forwarded the same to Government of Tamil Nadu and TNPCB for execution of
Remediation works. a) TNPCB informed that since the cost of actual remediation as per the DPR is very high,
it is proposed to lift and disposal of hazardous waste through TSDF. CPC B conveyed that Interim measures also proposed in DPR as per the request of
TNPCB/Govt. of TN for capping of waste and contaminated soil along with storm water
drainage system with a cost of about Rs. 12 crores. Afterwards, groundwater remediation
by applying Pump & Treat method may be implemented initially for 5 years. It was also
explained that cost of remediation will appear high due to inclusion of GW remediation
cost over a period of 15 years. However, actual cost may be much lower. Initial cost of
remediation may focus up 1-2 years O&M cost of GW remediation. While preparing DPR
cost of transferring to TSDF was discussed however, it was deferred due to cost
consideration. CPC B has suggested TNPCB that once DPR is accepted by Project Steering Committee
(PSC) headed by Chairman, CPC B remediation work needs to be executed within the
timelines stipulated in DPR. A copy of Minutes of Meeting held on 16.03.2021 is enclosed as Annexure-I Page 18 of 81 Upon the communication of aforesaid Minutes of Meeting, TNPCB has furnished following
action plan to CPC B vide letter dated 10.04.2021. A copy of TNPCB letter dated 10.04.2021
is enclosed as Annexure-II.  The option of shifting accumulated waste at M/s TCCL site, Ranipet to TSDF secure
 landfill disposal is dropped. The implementation of "Interim Remedial Measures of
 Soil & Waste Remediation" at TCCL, Ranipet as per DPR prepared by consultant of
 CPC B is under consideration.  Consultant has been asked to present on the methodology as per DPR & to involve in
 the preparation of Technical & Cost Bid documents. Time requirement is one month
 (before 31st May 2021).  The proposal along with required documents to get approval of the Board including
 budget to meet from Environmental Compensation Fund. Time requirement is three
 months (before 31st August 2021). 6. Summary of the Site Investigation & Findings as per DPR

Detailed site investigation was carried out by taking samples form 63 soil boreholes, 30
monitoring wells, 12 sediment boreholes, existing open wells, hand pumps, 11 bore water
and 14 surface water samples. Key findings of detailed site investigation is given below: Summary of Remedial Technology for the Site

 Matrix Location Selected Option
 INTERIM
 Soil and Waste On-site Capping of existing waste dump with
 provision for storm water collection
 FULL SCALE
 Waste and Soil On-site Excavation, Treatment, and Backfilling in on- site engineered secured landfill (SLF)
 Groundwater On-site and Off-site Pump and Treat with Source Removal and
 Hydraulic Containment System

An interim remedial plan for limiting the surface run-off and limiting leaching of hexavalent
chromium into groundwater is also presented in sections below. The interim plan consists of
capping the existing waste on-site by grading and engineering a cap to limit any
contamination from leaching into groundwater during monsoons. Along with the cap, a storm
water drainage network is also proposed prevent any surface water run-off from the site. A copy of Detailed Project Report (DPR) for remediation of chromium contaminated sites at
Ranipet, Tamil Nadu is enclosed as Annexure-IV. 7. Inspection of Industries by joint Committee

Out of 349 industries, 47 no. of industries are water polluting including CETPs, RED &
Orange categories. There are two CETP's are in operation for treating Tannery Effluents
generates from 99-member tannery units. The industries inspected by the committee during
December 22 to 24, 2020 are listed below and individual industries observation are as
follows; Operational during inspection:  The unit has provided collection, neutralisation & evaporator for high TDS effluent
 treatment.  Low TDS effluent is directly taken to RO system and the reject is sent to Evaporator
 along with high TDS effluent for concentration. Then the concentrate is sent to
 elevated solar evaporation pond. The unit has not provided any treatment system for
 the low TDS effluent generated from softener, cooling tower & blow down before
 treating in RO, which may affect the working performance of the RO system.
 Before installation of evaporator system, ZLD is achieved through ground level solar
 evaporation pond. TNPCB directed to remove this SEP after installation of
 evaporator, whereas the unit still having the system and effluent is present.
 The unit has installed flow meter at outlet of ETP only. M/s Ultramarine & Pigments Ltd.  The unit is consented for the production of following products with installed capacity
 and its present production;  The total water consumption including process and other activities like washing,
 boiler, domestic is 106.9 KLD, which is met through S IPC OT water supply and
 wastewater generation from process is 9.1 KLD and domestic is 4.5 KLD.
  The unit has obtained consents under water Act & Air Act with validity till
 31.03.2021 and Hazardous waste authorisation with validity till 31.03.25
  The unit is achieving ZLD. The treatment system consisting of settling tank, RO (3
 stages), MEE & ATFD.  During the inspection, it is observed that settling tank is not properly maintained and
 found with algae growth.  TDS is measured in RO water to know the working performance, it is observed that
 TDS in feed, permeate & reject is 3000 mg/l, 580 mg/l and 4500 mg/l respectively,
 which shows poor performance of RO due to improper maintenance.
  Fugitive emission of SO2 was observed in the kiln area due to leakages.
  During inspection, upgradation of kiln was observed and the waste generated is found
 stored in open yard. M/s Arjun Chemicals Pvt Ltd.,

  The unit is consented for production of Dynasize - 500 MTM, Dynasol - 300 MTM
 & AKD/ Composize - 580 MTM. During the committee inspection, unit was not in
 operation.  The unit has obtained consent under water & Air Act with validity till 31.03.2021.
  The source of fresh water is met through SPICOT supply. The unit has installed RO
 system for the fresh water supplied by S IPC OT. The total fresh water consumption is
 about 52 KLD, in which 10 KLD of RO reject is used for gardening.  As per the consented condition, the unit has installed electromagnetic flow meter for
 discharge of RO reject whereas online TDS meters is not provided at discharge point.
  The unit claims that no wastewater is generated from the process. The vessels/
 reactors are being washed with solvent at time of changeover of other batch product
 production and the washed solvent is stored and again used in the process.
  The unit has provided wet scrubber to rosin crusher & melter.
  TNPCB has imposed environmental compensation for Rs. 5,00,000/- based on the
 inspection carried out under CEPI action plan and same is paid by the industry. M/s P A FOOTWEAR P LTD. Unit-II

  The unit is involved in production of Semi-Finished to finished leather with consented
 quantity of 37.50 T/M.
  The total water consumption is 27 KLD, which is met through S IPC OT water supply
 and reuse of RO permeate.  The consented quantity of waste water generation is 25 KLD, whereas the unit
 presently generating 19 KLD.  The unit was member of CETP till 2016 and thereafter, the effluent generated in the
 plant is treated in their own ETP.  The unit is achieving ZLD, the treatment system installed are neutralisation, primary
 clarifier, Aeration, secondary & tertiary clarifier, filter, RO system (3 stage), salzberg
 mechanical dryer.  Salzberg mechanical dryer will not effectively work to concentrate the effluent & salt
 out.  The unit has obtained consents under water Act & Air Act with validity till March 31,
 2022 and Hazardous waste authorisation with validity till 14.04.2024.
  During the inspection, wet sludge & salt (semi solid) is found stored in open drums.
  The unit has installed seven flow meters and connected to TNPCB server. M/s Thirumalai Chemicals Ltd

  In the matter of OA no. 131/2020, the committee constituted by Hon'ble NGT
 inspected the unit and given the following recommendations;
  As the unit was observed for non-compliance of consent order conditions, discharges
 noticed in violation of consent conditions, internal discharge to the environment -land,
 water and air resulting into acute injury or damage to the environment and injection of
 treated /partially treated /untreated effluents to the ground water and based on
 repeated violations, the unit was directed by TNPCB to restrict the production of 50
 % of its consented quantity so as to achieve zero liquid discharge consistently till the
 commencement & effective functioning of newly constructed ZLD components. As
 the unit is in the process of establishing ZLD system and started trial runs for
 validation of the equipment to achieve Zero liquid discharge with respect to treating
 effluents, the unit shall be allowed to operate in full load only after ensuring the
 complete/full-fledged operation of upgraded ETP by TNPCB. The full-fledged
 operation of ZLD system should be commenced within four months-time by the TCL.
 Further, the conditions issued by TNPCB are to be complied within three-months
 times.  After commissioning of upgraded ETP, adequacy test needs to be carried out by an
 independent govt academic/research institution like IIT Madras and to certify that the
 unit has achieved 100% ZLD capacity.  TCL shall, in consultation with reputed institute such as IIT, Madras, prepare a DPR
 within three months-time, for the remediation of the land where the untreated effluent
 was discharged within the industry site and execute the task of remediation of
 contaminated site, under the supervision of TNPCB. The entire cost for the study and
 remediation shall be borne by the industry as per polluter pays principle.
  In view of the non-compliance by M/s TCL, TNPCB imposed environmental
 compensation twice of Rs. 18,60,000 vide order dated 13-11-2019 and Rs. 17,40,000
 vide order on 9-12-2020. Both the compensations were paid by TCL on 13-12-2019 &
 22-1-2021 respectively. M/s. Ranipet SIDCO Finished Leather Effluent Treatment Company Limited (Phase 1)

  The CETP is established for treatment of tannery effluent. The member units are
 involved in processing Semi finished to finish leather. Totally 88 tanneries are
 member of this CETP, in which 79 units are in operation.
  The CETP is designed for treatment of 2.5 MLD wastewater, TNPCB has restricted
 the effluent generation to 75 % i.e 1875 KLD. Presently CETP receives wastewater
 around 1 to 1.5 MLD within the restricted quantity.
  The treatment unit comprises of Receiving Sump, Equalization tank, flash mixture,
 Primary Clarifier, Aeration tank I & II, Secondary Clarifier, Reactor Clarifier, Multi
 Grade filters, Ultra filters, 3 stage R.O system, Multi Effect Evaporator (MEE),
 Centrifuge and filter press.  The CETP generates approximately around 12 TPD sludge and disposed to TWML
 Gummidipoondi & Arunachala Enterprises (for Co - Processing), Karur. At
 accumulated sludge stored is around 1300 Tons.  At present no prescribed standards for CETP inlet effluent, however all the member
 units are discharging the effluent after pre settling. The sludge removed by the
 member units is being disposed through CETP.  As per the record of CETP, as on 30th November 2020 total salt Accumulated is
 around 12403.28 MT.  CETP has installed 18 flow meters which are connected to TNPCB server & CPC B
 server.  Construction activities is being carried out by the CETP for upgradation of treatment
 units, during the inspection coloured seepage was noticed below the ground
 level/foundation area and samples were collected to know the characteristics of
 seepage. The observed values are TDS - 31030 mg/l, Chloride - 9050 mg/l and
 sulphate 1960 mg/l, COD - 4872 mg/l & BOD - 768 mg/l. As per the analysis report,
 it clearly indicates the contamination is due to tannery effluent.
  During the inspection, the committee instructed TNPCB & CETP to stop the
 construction activities until identifying the sources of pollution and take necessary
 action after identification of sources.  CETP has obtained consents under Water & Air Act with validity till 31.03.2022,
 whereas HW Authorisation expired on 31.03.2020.  CETP has not obtained HW Authorisation for Storage & disposal of chemical
 drums/barrels/containers/ bags. M/s. S IPC OT & SIDCO Phase 2 Entrepreneur Finished Leather Effluent Company (P) Ltd

  The CETP is established for treatment of tannery effluent. The member units are
 involved in processing Semi finished to finish leather. Totally 20 operational tanneries
 are member of this CETP and proposed member tanneries are 20 units.
  The CETP is designed for treatment of 2.5 MLD wastewater, presently it receives
 wastewater around 1 to 1.5 MLD. The treatment unit comprises of Receiving Sump,
 Equalization tank, flash mixture, flocculator, Primary Clarifier, Aeration tanks,
 Secondary Clarifier, flash mixture, flocculator, Pressure sand Filter, Reactor Clarifier,
 Neutralization tank, Ultra filters, Organic scavengers, R.O (2 stage) systems, Multi
 Effect Evaporator (MEE), Centrifuge and filter press.
  CETP is upgrading the treatment system such as oxidation pond, 3rd stage RO and
 MEE with ATFD.  All the member units are discharging the effluent to CETP without pre-treatment and
 inlet norms for CETP is also not prescribed by TNPCB.
  CETP has installed 18 flow meters which are connected to TNPCB server & only two
 flow meters (inlet & OHT) to CPC B server.  The CETP generates approximately around 0.8 - 1 TPD sludge and disposed to
 TWML Gummidipoondi. Sludge is disposed as on December, 2020 is 1557 tons.
  As per the record of CETP, as on December 2020, the total salt accumulated is around
 679 MT.  The sludge stored in the SLF facility (old & new) is 4979 Tons. This SLF facility
 found in damage condition.  CETP has obtained consents under Water Act & Air Act with validity till 31.03.2022,
 whereas the HW Authorisation expired on June 2020.
  CETP has not obtained HW Authorisation for Storage & disposal of chemical
 drums/barrels/containers/ bags. Environmental Compensation Calculation: Case I: If authorisation has been taken at any point of time, in such cases, Q may be
taken as below: (ii) All facility other than at Sl. No. (1) and 2(i) above

S = Scale of Operation factor of the facility and may be taken from below Table: C = Category of Facility factor and be taken from below Table; ECF = Environmental Compensation Factor, which is summation of one or more ECF,
as applicable, as given in below Table: M/s. Malladi Drugs &Pharmaceuticals Limited (Unit I)

 Violation Noticed: HW Authorisation not obtained & applied for generation, storage &
 disposal of spent solvent residue generated in the process, off specification products, chemical
 drums/barrels/containers/ bags. Environmental Compensation (EC) = Q x ERF x R

 Q =Quantity in terms of tone/per year, as specified in authorisation x Y
 Quantity in terms of tone/per year = 18.2
 Y = Number of years of operation = 5
 ERF = Environmental Risk Factor = 1.5
 R= Environmental Compensation factor, which may be taken as Rs. 30,000. EC = (18.2 x 5) x 1.5 x 30000 = Rs. 40,95,000

EC calculated for M/s. Malladi Drugs &Pharmaceuticals Limited (Unit I) is Rs 40,95,000/-
(Rupees fortylakhs ninety-fivethousand) Page 36 of 81 M/s. Malladi Drugs &Pharmaceuticals Limited (Unit 3)

 Violation Noticed: HW Authorisation not obtained & applied for generation, storage &
 disposal of spent solvent residue generated in the process, off specification products, chemical
 drums/barrels/containers/ bags. Environmental Compensation (EC) = Q x ERF x R
 Q =Quantity in terms of tone/per year, as specified in authorisation x Y
 Quantity in terms of tone/per year = 41.6
 Y = Number of years of operation = 5
 ERF = Environmental Risk Factor = 1.5
 R= Environmental Compensation factor, which may be taken as Rs. 30,000. EC = (41.6 x 5) x 1.5 x 30000 = Rs. 93,60,000

EC calculated for M/s. Malladi Drugs &Pharmaceuticals Limited (Unit 3) is Rs 93,60,000/-
(Rupees Ninety-three lakhs sixty thousand)

 M/s Sviss Labss Private Limited (i) Violation Noticed: HW Authorisation not obtained for generation, storage & disposal of
 off specification products. EC (in Rupees) = T x S x C x ECF x Y

 T = Type of facility factor = 1
 S = Scale of Operation factor = 1
 C = Category of Facility factor = 1
 ECF = Environmental Compensation Factor = 45,00,000
 Y = Number of years of operation = 5

 EC = 1 x 1 x 1 x 45,00,000 x 5 = Rs. 2,25,00,000 (ii) Violation Noticed:Not obtained Consent for By products till date. Environmental compensation is calculated using Pollution Index Formula
 EC = PI * N * R * S * LF

 PI = Pollution Index, RED category industry (PI = 80) Page 37 of 81 R = Rupees Factor (R = 250)
 S = Scale of Operation, Medium Scale (S = 1)
 LF = Location Factor, CEPI Area (LF = 2)
 N= Number of days for which violation took place is the period between the day of
 violation observed/ due date of compliance of directions and the day of compliance
 verified by CPC B/ SPCB/ PCC. for interim compensation calculation no. of days taken
 from date of committee visit 22.12.2020 to 31.03.2021.(N = 100 days)

 EC = 80 * 100 * 250 * 1 * 2 = Rs. 40,00,000 = Rs 40 lakhs. Total EC = Rs. 2,25,00,000 + Rs. 40,00,000 = 2,65,00,000/- Total EC calculated for M/s. Sviss Labs Pvt. Ltd., is Rs 2,65,00,000/- (Rupees Two Crores
Sixty-five Lakhs)

 M/s Ranipet SIDCO Finished Leathers Effluent Treatment Company (P) Ltd (CETP)

 Violation Noticed: HW Authorisation not obtained& applied for generation, storage &
 disposal of chemical drums/barrels/containers/ bags. Environmental Compensation (EC) = Q x ERF x R
 Q =Quantity in terms of tone/per year, as specified in authorisation x Y
 Quantity in terms of tone/per year = 1
 Y = Number of years of operation = 5
 ERF = Environmental Risk Factor = 1.5
 R= Environmental Compensation factor, which may be taken as Rs. 30,000. EC = (1 x 5) x 1.5 x 30000 = Rs.2, 25,000

EC calculated for /s Ranipet SIDCO Finished Leathers Effluent Treatment Company (P)
Ltd is Rs 2,25,000/- (Rupees two lakhs twenty-five thousand) Page 38 of 81 M/s S IPC OT-SIDCO Phase-II Entrepreneur Finished Leather Effluent Treatment Co.
(P) Ltd. (CETP)

 Violation Noticed: HW Authorisation not obtained& applied for generation, storage &
 disposal of chemical drums/barrels/containers/ bags. Environmental Compensation (EC) = Q x ERF x R
 Q =Quantity in terms of tone/per year, as specified in authorisation x Y
 Quantity in terms of tone/per year = 0.75
 Y = Number of years of operation = 5
 ERF = Environmental Risk Factor = 1.5
 R= Environmental Compensation factor, which may be taken as Rs. 30,000. EC = (0.75 x 5) x 1.5 x 30000 = Rs.1,68,750

EC calculated for M/s. S IPC OT-SIDCO Phase-II Entrepreneur Finished Leather Effluent
Treatment Co. (P) Ltd., is Rs 1,68,750/- (Rupees one lakh sixty-eight thousand seven
hundred fifty only)

 Environmental Compensation imposed on other industries by TNPCB: 12. Thereafter, this Tribunal had passed the following order:- 12. In O.A. No.186/2020, we feel it appropriate to direct the
 State of Tamil Nadu to come with a concrete action plan for
 implementation of the project, for which, DPR has been prepared by the
 Central Pollution Control Board, for remediation of Chromium deposits in
 that area, which posses danger to the people of Ranipet. When the
 companies which are responsible to undertake remediation measures
 are not available and certain action will have to be taken to remedy the
 situation, the State Government has to take the responsibility of
 proceeding with the remediation process and recover the cost from
 those who are responsible for causing such pollution. The State
 Government cannot wait for a longer period, as the issue regarding the
 pollution caused on account of the tanneries and other industries which
 are the main produces of Chromium has been dealt with by the Hon‟ble
 Apex Court even during 1996 and directions have been issued in Vellore Citizen's Welfare Forum Vs. Union of India and directions
 have been issued by the Hon‟ble Apex Court to take remedial measures
 by the regulators including the State Government. Since no effective
 steps have been taken by the regulators as well as the State
 Government, on the basis of the newspaper report this Tribunal had
 taken Suo Motu action for remedying the situation and that is how, O.A.
 No.186 of 2020 was registered by this Tribunal." 13. Again, the matter was taken up on 08.11.2021 and on that day, this
 Tribunal considered the report submitted by the Tamil Nadu Pollution
 Control Board signed by the officer on 22.10.2021, e-filed on the
 same date in respect of both the cases viz., O.A. No.186 and 131 of
 2020 which were jointly considered by the Tribunal for some time,
 but we are only extracting the portion relevant for this case alone
 from the report which reads as follows:- CPC B conveyed that interim measures also proposed in DPR as
 per the request of TNPCB/Govt of TN for capping of waste and
 contaminated soil along with storm water drainage system with a cost
 about Rs. 12 Crores. After wards, groundwater remediation by applying
 Pump & Treat method may be implemented initially for 5 years. It was
 also explained that cost of remediation will appear high due to inclusion
 of Ground Water remediation cost over a period of 15 years.
 However, actual cost may be much lower. Initial cost of remediation
 may be focus up 1-2 years O&M cost of GW remediation. While
 preparing DPR cost of transferring to TSDF was discussed however, it
 was deferred due to cost consideration. MS, CPC B has suggested TNPCB that once DPR is accepted by
 Project steering committee (PSC) headed by Chairman CPC B,
 remediation work needs to be executed within the timeline stipulated in
 DPR." The CPC B vide Ir Dt. 23.3.2021 has informed to arrange for
 initiating interim measures and furnish action plan in this regard. TNPCB
 has formed a Committee vide Proc Dt. 26.4.2021 with the technical
 expert members with Terms of References (ToRs) to oversee the
 methodology and proposal for Interim - Soil & Waste Remediation
 measures, documents prepared for Technical bid & Cost bid with
 an assistance of M/s ERM India Pvt Ltd and processing of Tendering and
 identifying the suitable bidder for execution of works. In the mean time the Government vide Letter dated 17.8.2021
 has requested the TNPCB to re-examine the interim plan as suggested in
 DPR for remediation of contaminated site at M/s TCCL, Ranipet and work
 out a plan of interim remedial measures in consultation with suitable
 expert agencies and send the same to Govt. Hence, the above subject
 on the proposal on interim remedial measures of soil & waste
 remediation at chrome contaminated site at M/s Tamil Nadu Chemicals
 and Chromates Ltd (TCCL), located at plot no. 25, S IPC OT Industrial
 Estate, Ranipet, Tamil Nadu at cost of 12 Crores is to be placed before
 the Board for necessary approval. " 14. Thereafter, the order passed in respect of O.A. No.186 of 2020 alone
 is reproduced below:- 15. Thereafter, the matter was taken up 27.01.2022 along with O.A.
 No.131 of 2020 and on that day, this Tribunal considered the interim
 report submitted by the Joint Committee signed by some of the
 members with date 08.12.2021, e-filed on 09.12.2021 and extracted
 in Para (11) of the order which reads as follows:- Further, Hon‟ble Tribunal in its order dated 08.11.2021 directed the
 joint committee as follows and to submit the report on or before
 14.12.2021; In compliance to the order dated 08.11.2021, a joint committee
 meeting was conducted on 01.12.2021 and detailly discussed about
 the plan of action to carry out the inspection of industries as well as
 status of implementation of Action Plan w.r.t Chromium contaminated
 site remediation work. 2. Status of further Inspection of the units in question which
 were responsible for causing such pollution in river Palar
 During the committee meeting, it is decided to carry out the
 inspection of major water polluting industries in the S IPC OT as well as
 Ranipet area. In this regard, TNPCB has identified 41 nos. of industries
 and provided the list to the joint committee. Due to the current
 prevailing climatic condition, joint committee not able to carry out the
 inspection of industries. Accordingly, the joint committee tentatively planned to carry out
 the inspection of industries during third week of December 2021 by
 having the committee in two or three teams including the other
 officials of CPC B & TNPCB. 3. Responsible for the deposit of Chromium and disposal of the
 same and what are the effective steps that have been taken
 after their earlier inspection
 M/s TCCL, is a TIDCO joint venture company promoted during
 1972 in association with Sh.K. K. Mohiadeen for implanting the project
 for the manufacture of Basic Chromium Sulphate. The promoters
 agreement was terminated due to equity contribution failure.
 Thereafter, the company was managed by TIDCO through its
 nominee directors till Jan 1989 except for initial two years period of
 operation. During 1988, TIDCO disinvested its shareholding in favour
 of Sh. C. V. Sridhar, who was appointed as CMD of TCC to Sh. Ashok
 Balasubramanian. The plant was not operated after 1995-96 as TNPCB
 issued notice to stop production until the solid waste is disposed off.
 TNPCB in its letter to Industries Department stated that 1.52 lakhs
 tonnes (out of 2.27 lakhs tonnes of chrome sludge) was generated
 during 1975 to 1988 when the management was with TIDCO and the
 balance 0.75 lakhs tonnes was generated during management of Sh.
 C. V. Sridhar and Sh. Ashok Balasubramaniam. Major 67% of waste
 generated during TIDCO tenure. A brief history obtained from S IPC OT, Ranipet about the M/s TCCL
 ownership is enclosed as Annexure III. During the committee meeting, it is requested TNPCB to provide the
 present status of progress w.r.t remediation of contaminated site. The
 committee member representing TNPCB informed that "A letter has
 been addressed by JCEE (M), TNPCB, Vellore to the Corporate office,
 TNPCB, Guindy, Chennai vide T.O letter Dt. 3.12.2021 requesting the
 present status of progress on implementation of remediation measures
 to be taken at Chromium contaminated site in the unit of M/s
 Tamilnadu Chromates & Chemicals Limited, Ranipet. The further
 decision and report awaiting from the Board." 4. Status of Action Taken against the Violating industries on the
 Earlier inspection carried out by the joint committee;
 In the earlier inspection of industries by the joint committee,
 violations were noticed and submitted the report to the Hon‟ble
 Tribunal. The joint committee report was communicated vide email dt.
 30.06.2021 to TNPCB. In the meeting officer representing TNPCB
 informed that "JCEE(M), TNPCB, Vellore has addressed to Corporate
 office, TNPCB, Guindy, Chennai vide T.O letter Dt. 19.04.2021 &
 16.11.2021 to issue the show cause notice under section 5 of E(P) A
 Act to the units as suggested by joint committee to impose
 Environmental Compensation and the show cause notice to the units in
 this regard are yet to be issued by the Board". Hence the joint committee decided to carry out the compliance
 verification of industries which are inspected earlier as per Hon‟ble
 Tribunal order dated 21.01.2021 and 03.02.2021. Request for seeking Time for submission of Committee Report: Further, in the order of the Hon‟ble NGT, dated 29.01.2021,
 the directions was as below: In compliance to the aforesaid orders of the Hon‟ble NGT, CPC B held review meetings on 02.09.2020, and 16.03.2021, wherein
 it was decided that action may be taken and the reports needed to be
 submitted to CPC B. In response to this, TNPCB vide letter dated
 10.04.2021, submitted the following: Further, CPC B held third review meeting on 18.11.2021 and it
 was observed that there is little progress w.r.t. execution of
 remediation works at the aforesaid site. TNPCB has informed the
 following: Further, TNPCB has got financial approval vide Board meeting
 dated 30.11.2021 to carry out the interim remediation measures and
 preparation of tender document is underway." 17. On that day, this Tribunal had directed to delink the O.A. No.131 of
 2020 (SZ) from this case to be considered separately, as the
 allegations in that case are not related to Chromium contaminated
 site, but in respect of violation of particular industrial unit in S IPC OT
 Industrial Estate, Ranipet. 18. This Tribunal also directed the Chief Secretary, State of Tamil Nadu to
 file a report of the review of remediation process that is undertaken
 in Ranipet area. Thereafter, the matter has been adjourned from
 time to time for the purpose of getting further report. 19. Vide Order dated 17.05.2022, this Tribunal considered the report
 submitted by the Joint Committee signed by some of the officer with
 dated 23.07.2022, e-filed on 25.03.2022 and extracted in Para (3) of
 the order which reads as follows:- In compliance to the order dated 08.11.2021, a joint committee meeting
 was conducted on 01.12.2021 and discussed about the plan of action to
 carry out the inspection of industries as well as status of implementation of
 Action Plan w.r.t Chromium contaminated site remediation work. In this
 regard, an interim report was filed by the joint committeedated 09.12.2021
 requesting further time to submit the final report, after inspection of
 industries in Ranipet area. The committee has carried out inspection of 52 nos. of industries during
 December 21- 23, 2021 along with the other officials of CPC B&TNPCB.
 Three teams were made and inspection was completed in order to verify
 any discharge to River Palar as directed by Hon‟ble NGT. The details are as
 follows; D, CPC B RD, Chennai Chennai 3. Sh. S. Rajan, JCEE, 3. Sh. R. Sridhar, Sc 2. Sh. C.Tholkappiyan, TNPCB/ Sh. Rajendra
 D MoEF&CC AEE, TNPCB, Babu, EE, TNPCB 4. Sh. G. 3. Sh. Muthaiya, SE WRO 4. Sh. M. A Mohamed Ghani,
 Ravichandran, DEE, 4. Sh. V. Mohan, EE JD, DISH
 TNPCB, Ground Water Dept. 5. Sh. G. Kalai Selvi, PO
 S IPC OT, Ranipet

 During the inspection, the District Collector, Ranipet has also joined the
 inspection for few units along with the committee members. 2. Status of further Inspection of the units in question which were
 responsible for causing such pollution in river Palar

 Totally 52 units were inspected by the teams in which 3 units are CETPs for
 tannery effluent treatment, 22 nos. cluster of cottage units manufacturing
 Glue from animal waste and 9 units are found closed/not in operation. The
 details of industries inspected by the teams are as follows; Table 2: Details of the industries inspected by the Team

 Sl No. Name of Industries inspected (list as Report along
 provided by TNPCB) With field
 observation
 Annexed in
 Page No.

 Team: 1 - Annexure 1 1. M/s Malladi Drugs &Pharmaceuticals Ltd., (Unit I) 19 2. M/s. Malladi Drugs and Pharmaceuticals Ltd., (Unit- 21
 III) 3. M/s SVISS LABSS Pvt Ltd. 22 4. M/s Ultramarine & Pigments Ltd. 24 5. M/s Arjun Chemicals Pvt Ltd., 24 6. M/s P A Footwear P Ltd., Unit-II 25 7. M/s. Ranipet SIDCO Finished Leather Effluent 25
 Treatment Company Ltd., (Phase 1) 8. M/s. S IPC OT & SIDCO Phase 2 Entrepreneur 27 Finished Leather Effluent Company (P) Ltd., 9. M/S. Snap Natural and Alginate Products P Ltd. 28 10. M/S. Prestige International 29 11. M/s. Standard Chemicals and Leathers 29 12. M/s Titan Leather Exports Unit - II 30 13. M/s. Pioneer Leder Tex P Ltd 30 14. M/s. Vinyork Leather Works 31 15. M/s. Mahalakshmi International 31 16. M/s. Sri Thirumalai Leathers 32 17. M/s. Murugappa Morgan Thermal Ceramics Limited 32 Page 57 of 81 18. M/s Alchymars ICM SM Private Limited Closed 19. M/s. Southern Synthetics Closed 20. M/s. Boon Dyeing Closed 21. M/s Udaya Enterprises Closed 22. M/s Greaves Cotton Limited Closed 23. M/s. Hariram Chemicals (Chemical Division) Not in
 operation
 (Temporary
 closed) 24. M/s Joy Foam Private Limited Not in
 operation
 (Dry unit,
 no effluent
 generation)
 Team 2: - Annexure 2 25. M/s. Ashtalakshmi Glue Works 34 26. M/s. Balamurugan Glue Works 36 27. M/s. Govindan Glue Works 38 28. M/s.Kanniyappan Glue Works 40 29. M/s. Karthikeyan Glue Works 42 30. M. Murugan Glue Works 45 31. M/s.M.R. Subramani Glue Works 47 32. M/s. M.A. Krishnan Glue Works 49 33. M/s. M.A.K. AnandaVelu Glue Works 51 34. M/s. Paneer Selvam Glue Works 54 35. M/s. R.K. Glue Works 56 36. M/s. Saravana Glue Works 59 37. M/s. Senbagam Traders 61 38. M/s. S.K. Glue Works 64 39. M/s. Sri Venkateswara Glue Works 66 40. M/s.T.K. Glue Works 69 41. M/s. Thirumal Glue Works 71 42. M/s. Velmurugan Glue Factory 73 43. M/s. K. Venkatesan Glue Works 75 44. M/s. Sri Vinayaga Glue Works 78 45. M/s Anbarasu Glue Not in
 operation 46. M/s M.R. Krishnan Closed 47. M/s. ROCA Bathroom Products Pvt. Ltd. 81 48. M/s. Coromandel International Limited (Pesticide 84
 division) 49. M/s. Coromandel International Limited (Fertilizer 86
 division)
Team 3: - Annexure 3 50. M/s Ranipet Tannery Effluent Treatment 89 Company Limited
 RANITEC, (Common Effluent Treatment Plant) Page 58 of 81 51. M/s K H Exports India Private Limited, Tannery „A‟ 113
 Division 52. M/s T.M. Abdul Rahman & Sons - „B‟ Unit 122 The industries in Sl no. 1 to 8 were inspected earlier by the committee as
 per Hon‟ble Tribunal directions and calculated compensation under HW
 Rules violations. The industries in Sl no. 9 to 16 for which TNPCB has imposed
 environmental compensation on violating industries in the SPICOT industrial
 area based on the inspection as per OA 1038/2019 order dated 14.09.2019
 and also based on the routine/ public complaint inspections. The same was
 taken into consideration by the committee and submitted in the earlier
 committee report. The compliance verification of these industries was carried out upon the
 recommendation made in the committee report dated 16.04.2021. The
 individual industries wise recommendations made by the inspecting teams
 are as follows: Common Observation/ Recommendation on the Glue industries

 The raw leather cuttings of hide are soaked in water for washing. Washed
 materials with required amount of water fed in the digester and boiled.
 After 06 to 08 hrs to get extracted glue. The extracted glue with water is
 then poured into another evaporator plate, so that water gets evaporated
 and form cake. All the units have issued the consent of the Tamilnadu Pollution Control
 Board subject to the following conditions as; a) The unit shall maintain the solar evaporation pans efficiently without any
 seepage. b) The unit shall effective steps to avoid soaking water being discharged
 outside the premises. c) All possible measures efforts shall be taken to curtain odour emission from
 the unit

 All the unit has provided a) Impervious yard provided for the drying of raw materials b) Impervious HDPE lined solar evaporation pans for the disposal of trade
 effluent as soaking & washing of leather cutting c) The units have used the country wood as fuel
 During inspection of the committee following shortcomings were noticed;  Salt residues are found in and around the unit premises due to exposure to
 sunlight on open soil in the unit. Thus causing pollution to the land and
 groundwater. No records are being maintained for salt generation &
 disposal.  The unit has not maintained the solar evaporation pans properly and all
 solar evaporation pans are in a damaged condition. This causes
 groundwater pollution.  Leather cutting / glue extracted solid waste is used as fuel for boiling raw
 materials. Thus creating odour problem in the area. In view of the above scenario, to run the industry in long term in this
 cluster it requires at certain environmental safeguard measures, so as to
 operate the industries continuously and efficiently without affecting the
 environment etc., So, it is suggested to explore the possibilities of
 following;  The glue cluster units shall form an Association and work for installation of
 Common Effluent Treatment Plant (CETP) for treating of trade effluent
 generated from their glue units so as to achieve ZLD.  Each glue unit shall provide separate Preliminary Treatment System within
 their unit premises and treated effluent shall be disposed for further
 treatment to the collection tank provided of M/s MELTEC CETP sector which
 is located nearby the cluster of glue units and CETP consisting of 12
 member units and now it is associated (merged with) M/s RANITEC CETP,
 V.C Mottr . Krishnagiri by-pass Road, Walajapet Taluk, Ranipet Distrct so as
 to achieve ZLD. 3. Status of Action Taken against the Violating industries based on the
 Earlier inspection carried out by the joint committee during December 22 to
 24, 2020; In the earlier inspection of industries by the joint committee, violations
 were noticed and submitted the report to the Hon‟ble Tribunal. The joint
 committee report was communicated vide email dated 30.06.2021 to
 TNPCB. In the meeting officer representing TNPCB informed that
 "JCEE(M), TNPCB, Vellore has addressed to Corporate office, TNPCB,
 Guindy, Chennai vide T.O letter Dated 19.04.2021 & 16.11.2021 to issue
 the show cause notice under section 5 of E(P) A Act to the units as
 suggested by joint committee to impose Environmental Compensation and
 the show cause notice to the units in this regard are yet to be issued by the
 Board". During the inspection in the Month of December 2021, it was observed that,
 the industries are not aware of the violations noticed and compensation
 calculated by the joint committee, since notice to the industriesare yet to be
 issued by TNPCB. 4. Hon‟ble NGT vide order dated 08.11.2021 also directed the joint
 committee to submit on "Responsible for the deposit of Chromium and
 disposal of the same" 5. Views of the joint Committee; Suggestions of the joint committee w.r.t Industries; The Joint Committee, based on the earlier site inspection carried out on
 December 22 to 24, 2020 made certain recommendations including
 environmental compensation calculated for the violations of the Hazardous
 Wastes Rules to the defaulting units which have been submitted vide its
 report dated 16.04.2021. Thereafter, the Joint Committee again reviewed
 the compliance status of those recommendations during the present
 inspection carried out on December 21- 23, 2021 including other such
 industries as the Hon‟ble NGT has directed "to conduct a further inspection
 of the units in question which were responsible for causing such pollution in
 river Palar" as per the Order dated 08-11-2021. The industry-wise non-
 compliances which have been observed by the Joint Committee are listed
 in Para No 2.1, 2.2 2.3 & 2.4. Environmental Compensation: The details of the environmental
 compensation calculated by the Committee are given below: 21. The matter was taken up on 01.07.2022 and on that date, this
 Tribunal considered the earlier orders passed on 17.05.2022 and
 thereafter, passed the following order:- 22. Thereafter, the matter has been adjourned from time to time and
 lastly, it was taken up on 22.08.2022 and on that day, this Tribunal
 had considered the report in the form of affidavit submitted by the
 Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board signed by the officer on
 20.08.2022, e-filed on the same date which reads as follows:- 23. Heard the learned counsel appearing for the respondents. 24. The learned counsel appearing for the State Departments submitted
 that they are committed to protect the environment and they will
 take all necessary steps to remediate the contaminated site and all
 assistance will be given to the regulators in this regard. 25. The learned counsel appearing for the Central Pollution Control Board
 submitted that it is for the State Government to take necessary
 action for implementation of the action plan provided. The learned
 counsel further submitted that the Joint Committee appointed by the
 Principal Bench of National Green Tribunal, New Delhi in respect of
 Chromium contaminated site in India, after evaluating the situation
 submitted the report and on that basis, certain directions were given
 and the MoEF&CC, Government of India had initiated the project on
 remediation of hazardous waste contaminated areas in the country (8
 sites) with CPC B, New Delhi as an executing agency under the
 National Clean Energy Fund during 2011 which includes Chromium
 contaminated area viz., TCCL, Ranipet. They have prepared an
 action plan and suggested both long-term and short-term measures Page 70 of 81 to be carried out for remedying the situation and they are now
 prepared to undertake the temporary measures provided, so that
 further contamination can be arrested by doing capping as provided
 in the DPR. 26. The learned counsel appearing for the State Pollution Control Board
 submitted that they are conducting further study with IIT Madras to
 ascertain as to whether the cost of the permanent measure
 suggested can be reduced by adopting any alternate method and
 thereafter, they will carry out the permanent measure as well and it
 will take some time. But in the meantime, they have decided to carry
 out the temporary measures of capping the area to arrest the further
 pollution. 27. We have considered the reports and submissions made by the
 learned counsel appearing for the respondents. 28. It is an admitted fact that the Ranipet area has been critically
 contaminated with Chromium deposit due to industrial effluent that
 has been discharged in Ranipet District due to certain negligent
 activities of the industries and tanneries which were discharging their
 trade effluents without proper treatment and this lead to a Public
 Interest Litigation before the Hon'ble Supreme Court viz., Vellore
 Citizens' Welfare Forum Vs. Union of India & Ors. 3 and the
 Hon'ble Apex Court had appointed a Joint Expert Committee to
 inspect the area in question and submit a report and on the basis of
 the report submitted by the Committee and also the various reports
 submitted by the Expert Committee, including the NEERI and the
 CPC B, the Hon'ble Apex Court had issued the following directions:- Section (2) of Section 3 . The Central Government shall constitute the
 authority before September 30, 1996. (1996) 5 SCC 647 Page 71 of 81 2. The authority so constituted by the Central Government shall
implement the "precautionary principle" and the "polluter pays" 3. The authority shall compute the compensation under two heads
namely, for reversing the ecology and for payment to individuals. A
statement showing the total amount to be recovered, the names of the
polluters from who the amount is to be recovered, the amount to be
recovered from each polluter, the persons to who the compensation is
to be paid and the amount payable to each of them shall be forwarded
to the Collector/District Magistrates of the area concerned. The
Collector/District magistrate shall recover the amount from the
polluters, if necessary, as arrears of land revenue. He shall disburse the
compensation awarded by the authority to be affected persons/families. 4. The authority shall direct the closure of the industry
owned/managed by a polluter in case he evades or refuses to pay the
compensation awarded against him. This shall be in addition to the
recovery from his as arrears of land revenue. 5. An industry may have set up the necessary pollution control
device at present but it shall be liable to pay for the past pollution
generated by the said industry which has resulted in the environmental
degradation and suffering to the residents of the area. 6. We impose pollution fine of Rs. 10,000/- each on all the
tanneries in the districts of North Arcot Ambedkar, Erode Periyar,
Dindigul Anna, Trichi and Chengai M.G.R. The fine shall be paid before
October 31, 1996 in the office of the Collector/District Magistrate
concerned. We direct the Collectors/District Magistrates of these
districts to recover the fines from the tanneries. The money shall be
deposited, along with the compensation amount recovered from the
polluters, under a separate head called "Environment protection Fund" 7. The authority, in consultation with expert bodies like NEERI,
Central Board, Board shall frame scheme/schemes for reversing the
damage caused to the ecology and environment by pollution in the
State of Tamil Nadu. The scheme/schemes so framed shall be executed
by the State Government under the supervision of the Central
Government. The expenditure shall be met from the "Environment
protection fund" and from other sources provided by the state
Government and the Central Government. 8. We suspend the closure orders in respect of all the tanneries in
the five districts of North Arcot Ambedkar, Erode Periyar, Dindigul Anna,
Trichi and Chengai M.G.R. We direct all the tanneries in the above five
districts to set up CETPs or Individual Pollution control Devices on or
before November 30, 1996. Those connected with CETPs shall have to
install in addition the primary devices in the tanneries. All the tanneries
in the above five districts shall obtain the consent of the Board to
function and operate with effect from December 15, 1996. The tanneries
who are refused consent or who fail to obtain the consent of the Board
by December 15, 1996 shall be closed forthwith. 9. We direct the Superintendent of Police and the Collector/district
Magistrate/Deputy Commissioner of the district concerned to close all
those tanneries with immediate effect who fail to obtain the consent
from the Board by the said date. Such tanneries shall not be reopened
unless the authority permits them to do so. It would be open to the
authority to close such tanneries permanently or to direct their
relocation. 10. The Government Order No. 213 dated March 30, 1989 shall be
enforced forthwith. No. new industry listed in Annexure-I to the
Notification shall be permitted to be set up within the prohibited area. The authority shall review the case of all the industries which are
 already operating in the prohibited area and it would be open to
 authority to direct the relocation of any of such industries. 11. The standards stipulated by the Board regarding total
 dissolved solids (TDS) and approved by the NEERI shall be operative. All
 the tanneries and other industries in the State of Tamil Nadu shall
 comply with the said standards. The quality of ambient waters has to be
 maintained through the standards stipulated by the Board." 29. Thereafter, the Hon'ble Apex Court directed the Hon'ble High Court of
 Madras to constitute a Special Bench (Green Bench) to deal with this
 case and pass appropriate orders. 30. While dealing with the question regarding the contaminated site, the
 remedial action to be taken in O.A. No.804 of 2017 ( Rajiv
 Narayan & Anr. Vs. Union of India & Ors. ), by Order dated
 26.08.2019, the Principal Bench of National Green Tribunal, New
 Delhi had passed the following directions: - iv. 126 sites which have already been identified as contaminated
 may be cleared of the hazardous waste within six months so that
 remediation process may start. The remediation work may start at the
 55 sites for which DPRs have been completed within the timelines
 specified in the DPRs. For the remaining 71 sites, DPRs may be
 completed expeditiously but not later 35 than one year and thereafter
 remediation may be done as per the timelines in the DPRs. v. Failure to remove the waste from the 126 identified sites, will
 result in environmental compensation to be paid at the rate of Rs. 10
 lakhs per site from 01.04.2020 by the concerned SPCBs/PCCs to the
 CPC B. Same rate will apply in respect of such of the 195 sites as are
 identified as contaminated with effect from 01.01.2021. vi. With regard to 195 probable contaminated sites, the
 assessment may be completed within six months and thereafter the
 waste may be removed within next six months form sites cleared by the
 CPC B to be contaminated. vii. The clearance of site by way of disposal or transfer should be
 strictly as per the HOWM Rules, to be monitored by the CPC B. The cost
 of removal of waste may be first paid out of the environment
 funds/consent funds available with the State PCBs/PCCs and thereafter
 recovered from the persons concerned. viii. Whenever any difficulty arises, the CPC B may, on being so
 satisfied, allocate funds from environment funds available with it, which
 may thereafter be recovered from the concerned defaulters. ix. The recommendations of the CPC B with regard to the
 compensation regime on the subject may be adopted, subject to further
 consideration of orders. x. The CPCB may oversee the compliance of these directions
 compile data from all quarters and furnish an interim compliance report
 before 15.04.2020 by email at [email protected] . List for further consideration on 28.04.2020." 31. Thereafter, the matter was again considered by the Principal Bench
 on 01.07.2020 and vide Order dated 07.07.2020, after reiterating the
 various reports of the CPC B in respect of several Chromium
 contaminated site and considered the recommendations of the CPC B
 and then, disposed of the matter with the following directions:- List for further consideration on 08.12.2020." 32. Similar issue was considered by the Principal Bench in O.A. No.985
 of 2019 (In Re: Water Pollution by Tanneries at Jajmau,
 Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh) and O.A. No.986 of 2019 (In Re: Water
 Pollution at Rania, Kanpur Dehta & Rakhi Mandi, Kanpur
 Nagar, Uttar Padesh) and after considering the status report of the
 CPC B extracted in Para (2) of the order, directed the Chief Secretary,
 Uttar Pradesh to look into the issue and constituted a committee
 headed by Hon'ble Mr. Justice SVS Rathore, Former Judge of Hon'ble
 High Court of Allahabad to oversee the compliance of directions.
 Thereafter, the above matters were taken up on 08.02.2021 and
 16.11.2021 and by order dated 23.11.2021, the Principal Bench had
 appointed a Joint Committee to go into the question and posted the
 cases along with another case viz., Appeal No.14 of 2020 ( Chandni
 Chemicals Private Limited Vs. Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board )
 and connected matters for consideration and that cases are pending. 33. It is seen from the various reports submitted by the committee and
 the regulators that the presence of Chromium deposit was on account
 of operation of certain units which existed in that area which has
 resulted in serious contamination of soil as well as water in that area.
 Further, there was a direction for giving potable water to the
 residents of Ranipet by the State Government, till the situation is
 improved in that area. From 1996 onwards, in spite of various
 directions issued by the Hon'ble High Court of Madras and the
 National Green Tribunal dealing with Chromium contaminated sites in
 the country, the effective implementation of those directions to
 provide way forward to remediate the situation has not taken place
 on ground level in an effective manner. 34. Even from the report submitted by the Pollution Control Board
 considering the amount involved in carrying out the DPR for the
 purpose of implementation of the action plan, they were identifying
 the source for raising the funds for this purpose, except that no
 effective steps have been taken by the State Government or by the
 regulators, including the CPC B for remedying the situation
 permanently so as to protect the interest of the people in that area. 35. Providing clean environment includes providing clean water and air
 and this was treated as part of Right to Life guaranteed under Article
 21 of the Constitution of India and providing this is the primary
 responsibility of the State. 36. It is true that environmental compensation has to be assessed and
 that will have to be realized from the polluters for the purpose of
 undertaking the remediation process applying the 'Polluter Pays'
 principle as has been observed by the Hon'ble Apex Court in Vellore
 Citizens' Welfare Forum Vs Union of India & Ors.4 But it is seen
 from the report that most of the industries which were in existence
 and primarily responsible for causing such pollution were either
 closed or sold the industries and left the place and some of the
 industries are still in existence and as per the directions of the
 Hon'ble Apex Court in Vellore Citizen‟s case (supra), action for closure
 was taken and reopening of the industries were permitted only after
 complying with the directions issued by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the
 case mentioned above and strict monitoring of these industries is
 being undertaken by the Pollution Control Board. But that alone will
 not be sufficient for the purpose of protecting the interest of the
 people who are likely to be affected on health issues due to the
 contaminated site which admittedly is a proven fact that Chromium
 contaminated site will result in damage to both the soil and water and
 its contents are carcinogenic in nature which will cause cancer to the
 people who are drinking such water. Protecting the health aspect is
 also a primary responsibility of the State and they cannot shirk their
 responsibility of carrying out such activities which are required for the
 purpose of protecting the interest of the people viz., the health issues
 for want of funds. It is for them to find out the source, for such
 activities and they should not delay the implementation of the action
 plan for carrying out the remediation process of Chromium
 contaminated site in Ranipet. Long ago, an action plan has been
 prepared for remedying the situation involving the expert bodies like
 NEERI, CPC B and MoEF&CC, including the IIT Madras and even today,
 it is only in the stage of preparation of DPR and it is not known as to
 how long it will take for preparation of the action plan on the basis of
 the DPR and implementing the same. (1996) 5 SCC 647 Page 76 of 81 37. It is seen from the action plan that there was a recommendation for
 conducting temporary measure by providing capping, for which, they
 estimated an amount of Rs.15 Crores and for permanent measures by
 taking in-situ remediation, as transport of hazardous substance for
 treatment will be a difficult one considering the nature of
 contamination and the quantity involved and they suggested for in-
 situ remediation by providing certain methodology for carrying out
 the same as well, for which, they estimated a cost of around Rs.500
 Crores. 38. As directed by this Tribunal, a Committee was constituted by the
 Chief Secretary to Government including the Secretary for Finance,
 Industries and Chairman - Pollution Control Board and it was seen
 from the latest report submitted by the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control
 Board that they in-principle agreed to carry out the temporary
 measure of capping by spending the amount required for that
 purpose and undertake the permanent measures of remediation after
 consultation with the IIT Madras to find out the way to reduce the
 cost for carrying out the remediation and if it is not feasible, then
 they will proceed with the remediation process. They have also
 undertaken that they will start the interim measures within a period
 of three months and complete the same within one year from the
 date of award of the work to the contractor/executing agency and
 they will carry out the permanent measures in consultation with the
 IIT Madras and approach the Government for funding and they
 wanted the permission of this Tribunal to implement the interim
 measure first. 39. It is high time for the Chief Secretary to Government, State of Tamil
 Nadu in consultation with the Additional Chief Secretary for Finance
 and Industries Department to find out the source to raise funds for
 carrying out the final remediation process and they cannot postpone
 the remediation process for realization of the amount from the
 polluters applying the 'Polluter Pays' principle and they can resort to
 that method of recovery at a later stage in accordance with law, but
 they will have to take immediate steps on war footing basis to
 implement the final remediation plan that has been provided by the
 Expert Committee, for which, the DPR has been suggested to be
 prepared. They cannot shirk from their responsibility of providing
 funds and postpone the same for a longer period as well. 40. Further, it is not possible for the Tribunal to monitor these things in a
 perpetual manner. It is for the regulators and the Stakeholder
 Departments, including the Secretary level officials to take primary
 responsibility of protecting the environment and providing clean
 environment as part of right to life to the people and take pro-active
 steps to implement the remediation process at the earliest possible
 time so as to save the life of the people who are suffering with such
 contamination for the last so many years atleast since 1996, when it
 was identified and directions had been issued by the Hon'ble Apex
 Court to take remedial measures for restoration of the damage
 caused to the environment by carrying out the remediation process of
 the contaminated site in Ranipet by taking steps by the State
 Government. 41. In view of the observations made above, we feel that the application
 can be disposed of by giving certain directions to the official
 respondents to implement the same in its letter and spirit. 42. So, the Original Application is disposed of with the following
 directions:- It should be noted that any delay will only aggravate the
 situation further in that area. (vii) Till the entire remediation process is completed, the
 State Government is also directed to conduct a health
 study in that area by constituting a committee in
 consultation with the Chairman - Tamil Nadu Pollution
 Control Board and Director - Regional Office, CPC B,
 Chennai and provide necessary infrastructure including
 potable water to the residents of that area and medical
 facilities using the CSR funds of the industries that are
 functioning or state funds and ensure that the health of
 the people in that area is protected and also carry out
 the infrastructure facilities which are likely to be
 suggested by the Committee based on the health study
 to be conducted in that area and this will have to be
 carried out by the State of Tamil Nadu at the earliest
 possible time at any rate within a period of six
 months from the date of receipt of this order. (viii) The Additional Chief Secretary to Government,
 Department of Environment, Climate Change and Forest
 is directed to file periodical report regarding the progress
 of the remediation process both temporary and Page 80 of 81 permanent measures once in 6 (Six) months before
 this Tribunal. (ix) The Registry is directed to communicate this order to the
 District Collector - Ranipet District, Chairman - Tamil
 Nadu Pollution Control, Central Pollution Control Board
 ( CPC B) - New Delhi as well as Regional Office, Chennai,
 Additional Chief Secretary to Government - Department
 of Environment, Climate Change and Forest, Additional
 Chief Secretary to Government - Department of Finance,
 Additional Chief Secretary to Government - Department
 of Industries and also to the Chief Secretary to
 Government, State of Tamil Nadu for their information
 and compliance of directions. (x) As and when the report is filed, the Registry is directed
 to place the same before the Bench for consideration and
 also for issuing further directions (if any) required in this
 regard. 43. With the above observations and directions, this Original Application
 is disposed of. Sd/- Justice K. Ramakrishnan, JM

 Sd/- Dr. Satyagopal Korlapati, EM
O.A. No.186/2020 (SZ)
02nd September, 2022. Mn.