- (Per S.G. Chapalgaonkar, J.) 1. The applicants have approached this Court under section 482 of the Criminal Procedure Code seeking to quash
 and set aside the FIR in Crime No.46 of 2021 registered with
 Malakoli Police Station, District Nanded for the offences
 2 cran 2130.21.odt

punishable under section 306 , 504 , 506 , 34 of the Indian Penal
Code. 2. Since during pendency of this application, charge-
sheet is filed, applicants have incorporated amended prayers to
quash and set aside the charge-sheet no.92 of 2021 dated
1.12.2021 filed before the Judicial Magistrate First Class,
Kandhar. 3. Respondent No.2 lodged a report dated 4.3.2021
with Malakoli Police Station alleging that her husband was
serving as a Teacher in Matoshri Ashram School at Malakoli
since last 15 years. He was maintaining a large family. As such
used to face financial crunch. Consequently, in the year 2013,
he had borrowed an amount of Rs.1,50,000/- from Achyut
Namdev Kendre on interest @ 5% p.m. The interest amount
was regularly paid by her husband, however, said Achyut was
charging compound interest for recovery of the amount by
giving threats. Similarly, two years ago her husband had
obtained the loan of Rs.4.00 Lakhs from Ramdas Kishan
Ballore on interest @ 3% p.m. Although, her husband had
regularly paid interest and also part of principal amount, he
grabbed the land of her husband. Similarly, in the year 2014,
her husband had borrowed loan of Rs.2.00 Lakh from Babu
Rangnath Gangane on interest @ 5% p.m. By way of security
of the said land, two blank cheques were given. Her husband
refunded Rs.20,000/- out of principal amount and regularly
paid interest. However, Babu was persistent in raising demand
of exponential interest. Due to constant torture by accused in
pursuance to recovery of excessive interest, her husband
 3 cran 2130.21.odt

committed suicide on 25.2.2021 by hanging himself. The
aforesaid information culminated into FIR in crime no.46 of
2021 for the offences punishable under sections 306 , 504 , 506 ,
r/w 34 of the IPC . 4. During pendency of this application, investigation
progressed and charge-sheet has been filed in the Court of
Judicial Magistrate First Class, at Kandhar against in all three
accused persons including applicants under for aforesaid penal
provisions. 5. Mr. A.M. Gaikwad, learned advocate appearing for
the applicants submits that applicants are innocent persons and
falsely implicated in the aforesaid crime. Deceased Balaji
committed suicide on 25.2.2021. However, FIR is lodged on
4.3.2021. He would submit that applicants are the
agriculturists. False allegations regarding loan transaction are
made. During lifetime of the deceased, he never made any
complaint in respect of stipulations in the FIR. He would
submit that, even assuming money transaction between
applicants and deceased or demand of money by the
applicants, itself, would not constitute offence of abetment to
commit suicide. 6. Mr. Gaikwad would submit that deceased was
teacher in the school receiving grant-in-aid. First informant is
also in service as Anganwadi Sevika. Applicants are the
agriculturists holding meager lands. In these circumstances, it
cannot be believed that deceased had obtained any loan from
the applicants and in pursuance of recovery of loan, deceased
 4 cran 2130.21.odt

was tortured by them. Mr. Gaikwad would also invite attention
of this Court to the statements of witnesses recorded during
course of the investigation and submit that stereo type
allegations are made by all family members of the deceased.
Statement of two witnesses, who were co-employees of the
deceased, do not show that deceased was tortured at the hands
of the applicants. 7. Per contra, Mr. A.V. Lavte, learned APP appearing
for respondent no.1-State and Mr. V.Y Bhide, learned advocate
appearing for respondent no.2 vehemently opposed the
application contending that contents of the FIR and material
surfaced during investigation is sufficient to make out a triable
case. Hence, no interference is required under section 482 of
the Criminal Procedure Code. 8. We heard learned advocates appearing for the
respective parties and considered contents of the FIR and
charge-sheet. 9. On minute scrutiny of the FIR, it can be observed
that both the applicants alleged to have advanced money to the
deceased and they have recovered the amount charging
compound interest. In pursuance of recovery of such amount,
they continuously persuaded the deceased. In last paragraph,
statement is made that all three money lenders named in the
FIR used to abuse and give threats to the deceased at public
places and school in pursuance of demand of money and
mentally tortured him. Consequently, he committed suicide. In
light of the allegations made in the FIR, we have to find out
 5 cran 2130.21.odt

whether the ingredients of offence punishable under section
306 of the IPC would attract in the present case. 10. Section 107 of the IPC defines abetment, which
reads thus :- Explanation 1.-- A person who, by willful
 misrepresentation, or by willful concealment of a material
 fact which he is bound to disclose, voluntarily causes or
 procures, or attempts to cause or procure, a thing to be
 done, is said to instigate the doing of that thing. Illustration A, a public officer, is authorized by a warrant
 from a Court of Justice to apprehend Z. B, knowing that
 fact and also that C is not Z, wailfully represents to A that
 C is Z, and thereby intentionally causes A to apprehend C.
 Here B abets by instigation the apprehension of C.

 Explanation 2.-- Whoever, either prior to or at the time of
 the commission of an act, does anything in order to
 facilitate the commission of that act, and thereby facilitate
 the commission thereof, is said to aid the doing of that
 act. 11. Essence of abetment lies in instigating a person to
do a thing or the intentional doing of that thing by an act or
illegal omission. The instigation is to goad, urge, forward,
provoke incite or encourage to "an act". The Supreme Court of
 6 cran 2130.21.odt

India in case of Chitresh Kumar Chopra Vs. State made
following observations :- 12. Adverting to the facts of the present case, what is
discernible from allegations in the FIR that deceased had
borrowed loan from the accused persons and they were
persistently demanding the amount by charging compound
interest. There is further stipulation that in pursuance of such
demand, accused persons visited the school i.e. place of
employment of the deceased, or even raised the demand in the
midway. Pertinently, no specific instances with particulars of
overtact at the hands of the accused towards deceased on the
date of incident or within the proximity of his death is given.
The FIR only states that applicant no.1 Ramdas Ballore had
advanced loan amount almost two years prior to date of
incident and he had tortured for recovery of the interest.
Similarly, applicant no.2 Balu Gangane had advanced loan of
 7 cran 2130.21.odt

Rs.2.00 Lakhs in the year 2014 and persistent in recovery of
interest on the loan. From the aforesaid allegations, it can be
gathered that applicants were pursuing for recovery of the
amount of interest from the deceased. Consequently, whatever
acts they were doing can be said to be for the purpose of
recovery of the amount. In absence of particulars of any
incident, that would create a circumstance that deceased was
left with no other option except to commit suicide or he was
irritated or annoyed by words or deeds or conduct that would
push him or force him to commit suicide. Such ingredients of
abetment of suicide are required to make out an offence under section 306 of the Indian Penal Code . 13. We are oblivious that powers under section 482 of
the Criminal Procedure Code can be exercised sparingly to
prevent abuse of legal process or otherwise to secure the ends
of justice. Parameters of the jurisdiction under section 482 of
the Criminal Procedure Code are elaborated by the Supreme
Court of India in case of State of Haryana and Ors. Vs. Ch.
Bhajan Lal and Ors reported in AIR 1992 SC 604 . The recourse
reiterated by way of illustrations wherein such powers could be
exercised either to prevent abuse of process or otherwise to
secure the ends of justice are as under :- 14. In light of the aforesaid guidelines, when we
examined contents of the charge-sheet, we could notice that
apart from the FIR, statement of two brothers and sons of
deceased are recorded, which are stereo type and reiterates
contents of the FIR without any additional particulars of
abatement or overt act at the hands of the accused persons that
would constitute abatement within the meaning of section 107 of the IPC. Apart from family members of the deceased, we
could found statement of two witnesses namely Prakash
Rathod and Umakant Kendre, who were co-workers of the
deceased in the school. They simply asserts that deceased was
under the mental stress since few years and used to tell them
that he had responsibility of large family hence, he is always in
the crunch of money. Further some persons used to visit him in
the school and after return of those persons, deceased used to
be under stress. Pertinently, in these statements also no
specific date or incident has been mentioned so that inference
of abetment to commit suicide or circumstances depicting
abetment to commit suicide can be gathered. 15. Pertinently, from the entire material on record,
there is nothing to discern intention of the accused persons to
drive deceased to commit suicide or even to create any
circumstance by which deceased would be tend to commit
suicide. As rightly pointed out by the learned advocate
appearing for applicants, deceased was a teacher in a school
with grant-in-aid. The informant, who is wife of the deceased
 10 cran 2130.21.odt

was also serving as Anganwadi Sevika. In this background, it
is difficult to believe that deceased had obtained private loans
from the money lenders and since 2013 onwards he was
repaying loan installments. Contents of the charge-sheet are
silent as regards to money lending business of the applicants.
Pertinently, section 39 of The Maharashtra Money-Lending
(Regulation) Act, 2014 which provides punishment for carrying
money lending business without necessary permit is not
charged against the applicants. We find that this is a fit case to
exercise our jurisdiction under section 482 of the Criminal
Procedure Code as continuation of the criminal proceeding
would be abuse of process of law particularly, when the
ingredients of alleged offences are absent. Hence, we proceed
to pass the following order. ii. The First Information Report the FIR in Crime
 No.46 of 2021 registered with Malakoli Police
 Station, District Nanded for the offences
 punishable under section 306, 504, 506 r/w 34
 of the Indian Penal Code and the charge-sheet
 no.92 of 2021 dated 1.12.2021 filed before the
 Judicial Magistrate First Class, Kandhar for the
 offences punishable under section 306, 504, 506
 r/w 34 of the Indian Penal Code are hereby
 quashed and set aside as against the applicants
 herein. 11 cran 2130.21.odt

 iii. Criminal application stands disposed off.