S.B. SINHA, J : One Surender Kumar Agarwal was shown to be a promoter in the

brochure issued by the Company. However, his wife Rookprekha

Agarwal and their two sons Ritesh Agarwal and Deepak Agarwal

(Appellants, who were said to be minors at the relevant time) also

purported to have made contributions. The Company came out with a 2 public issue of 30 lakh equity shares of Rs. 10/- each at a premium of Rs.

5/- per share aggregating to Rs. 450 lakhs. A prospectus therefor was

issued. The issue opened on 12.06.1995. It closed on 22.06.1995. 15

lakh shares of Rs. 10/- each for cash at a premium of Rs. 5/- per share

were reserved for firm allotment to the promoters and directors of the

company and their friends and relatives. A sum of Rs. 2.25 crores (Rs.

225/- lakhs) was to be invested by the promoters. The issue went

through. It later transpired that Pratha Investments, Ritesh Capital and

Ritesh Agarwal asked for issuance of duplicate shares contending that

the shares allotted in their favour had been misplaced. An advertisement

was issued. A notice was also sent to the Stock Exchange. The Stock

Exchange, however, on an enquiry made in that behalf, came to learn that

the alleged lost shares had in fact been sold in the market. The trading in

the scrip of the Company was suspended. 2. The matter was referred to the Securities and Exchange Board of

India (for short "the Board"). In an enquiry conducted by the Board, it

was discovered that only 7.96% of the public issue had been subscribed

by the public till the closing date and the promoters who were required to

subscribe Rs. 225/- lakhs had invested a sum of Rs. 35/- lakhs only. A

large number of other irregularities were also found. 3 As the Board has noticed the said irregularities in great details, it is

not necessary for us to repeat the same once over again. The Board, by

its order dated 9.02.2004, directed: 3. An appeal was preferred thereagainst before the Tribunal.

However, none of the findings of fact were in question. The said

findings of fact, therefore, had attained finality. The Tribunal, by reason of the impugned judgment, negatived the

plea of the appellants Ritesh Agarwal and Deepak Agarwal that they

were minors at the relevant time, stating: 4. The Tribunal opined that the Company and its promoters played

fraud on the public and the Board was justified in debarring the 5 promoters and the Company from having access to the capital market for

a period of 10 years. It also agreed with the other directions of the

Board. 5. In the aforementioned backdrop, the questions which have been

raised before us by Mr. C.A. Sundaram, learned senior counsel appearing

on behalf of the appellants, have to be noticed, which are as under: 6. Ms. Suruchii Aggarwal, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the

respondents, on the other hand, would contend: 7. The SEBI Act was enacted to provide for the establishment of a

Board to protect the interests of investors in securities and to promote the 7 development of, and to regulate, the securities market and for matters

connected therewith or incidental thereto. Section 11A of the SEBI Act specifies the matters which are

required to be disclosed by the companies. Section 11AA thereof

provides for collective investment scheme. Section 11B provides for

certain remedial measures which read as under: 9 Section 12 of the SEBI Act provides for registration of stock

brokers, sub-brokers, share transfer agents, etc. Chapter VI A of the 10 SEBI Act provides for penalties and adjudication. Section 15H provides

for penalty for non-disclosure of acquisition of shares and take-overs. Section 24 of the SEBI Act provides for the offences committed

under the SEBI Act . Section 30 of the SEBI Act provides for regulation making power.

The Board in exercise of its power conferred upon it under Section 30 of

the SEBI Act made the FUTP Regulations. The said Regulations came

into force on and from 25.10.1995. 8. Indisputably, when the irregularities committed by the Company

and/ or its promoters came to the notice of the Board, it had issued a

notice only on 28.01.2003. The FUTP Regulations are prospective in nature. Chapter II of the

FUTP Regulations provides for prohibition of fraudulent and unfair trade

practices relating to securities market. Regulation 4 prohibits against

market manipulation; Clause (a) whereof reads as under: Regulation 5 of the FUTP Regulations provides for prohibiting

misleading statements to induce sale or purchase of securities. Regulation 6 thereof prohibits unfair trade practices relating to securities. Regulation 11 empowers the Board to issue directions in the following

terms: Regulation 12 of the FUTP Regulations specifies the purpose of

directions. 9. We may also notice that a Company has certain duties and

functions under the Companies Act, 1956 . Section 63 thereof provides 12 for criminal liability for mis-statements in the prospectus, which reads as

under: Section 77 of the Companies Act provides for restrictions on

purchase or loans by Company for purchase of its own shares. Any 13 person violating the provisions of the Companies Act may be proceeded

thereunder. 10. The word "promoter", however, has not been defined either under

the Companies Act or under the SEBI Act . The definition of promoter

has, however, been provided in Section 2(h) of the Securities and

Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and

Takeovers) Regulations, 1997 in the following terms: and includes any person belonging to the
 promoter group as mentioned in Explanation I: Explanation II: Financial Institutions,
 Scheduled Banks, Foreign Institutional
 Investors (FIIs) and Mutual Funds shall not be
 deemed to be a promoter or promoter group
 merely by virtue of their shareholding. Provided that the Financial Institutions,
 Scheduled Banks and Foreign Institutional
 Investors (FIIs) shall be treated as promoters or
 promoter group for the subsidiaries or
 companies promoted by them or mutual funds
 sponsored by them." 11. It may be true that only Surender Kumar Agarwal was shown as a

promoter in the Brochure along with Shiv Shanker Agarwal and

Mahender Kumar Agarwal, but, indisputably, Rooprekha Agarwal,

Ritesh Agarwal and Deepak Agarwal who are wife and sons of Surender

Kumar Agarwal made contributions. They, therefore, come within the

purview of the said term. Surender Kumar Agarwal ex facie suppressed the fact that Ritesh

Agarwal and Deepak Agarwal were minors. Such a contention appeared

to have been raised for the first time before the Tribunal. It is one thing to say that as minors they could not have entered

into a contract having regard to the provisions of the Indian Contract Act,

1872 and, thus, any act committed by them should be ignored, but, this,

itself, goes to show how Surender Kumar Agarwal played an important

role in resorting to wholly unfair practices and fraudulent acts. It is,

therefore, not possible for us to hold that Surender Kumar Agarwal alone

was the promoter. However, a minor cannot enter into a contract. The Tribunal

unfortunately did not go into this question in details. Finding of the

Tribunal which has been noticed by us hereinbefore, with respect, is

wholly unsustainable. It is not based on any legal principle. No reason

has been assigned therefor. If they were minors, they being not party to the fraud, could not

have been subjected to penalty under the SEBI Act . The person who

committed the fraud in their names, viz., Surender Kumar Agarwal 16 himself, should have been proceeded against not only for commission of

act of fraud on his own behalf but also on behalf of the minors. The fact that the issue was under-subscribed is not in dispute. The

question that the under-writers have not subscribed is also not in issue.

The fact that there had been divergence of funds is also neither in doubt

nor in dispute. The promoter's contribution has not come in,

furthermore, is not in question. The Board did not find any justification in the cause shown by the

appellants herein. The violations which have been found are: 2.25 crores. However, they have fraudulently
 allotted shares worth Rs. 2.25 crores to the
 promoters and hence cheated the other genuine
 investors/ underwriters. 3) Ritesh purchased the shares back from
 the financiers who had bailed out the issue
 (under the garb of subscription) using the
 public issue proceeds. This is in violation of Section 77 of the Companies Act, 1956. Thus,
 the public issue proceeds have not been utilized
 for the purpose it has been raised. Hence, there
 has been misstatement in the prospectus to this
 effect. 4) The issue did not receive the minimum
 subscription of 90% even after the devolvement
 period. Hence, the issue should have been
 refunded which was not done. Thus, there has
 been a misstatement in the prospectus to this
 effect." The said findings are not in question. The Board, therefore, has

rightly proceeded to take action in terms of the SEBI Act . The question as to whether the provisions of the FUTP

Regulations are attracted in this case may now be examined. The FUTP Regulations came into force for the first time on

25.10.1995. Would it apply in a case where the cause of action arose

prior thereto? Ex facie, a penal statute will not have any retrospective

effect or retroactive operation. If commission of fraud was complete

prior to the said date, the question of invoking the penal provisions

contained in the said Regulations including Regulations 3 to 6 would not

arise. It is not that the Parliament did not provide for any penal provision 18 in this behalf. If the appellants have violated the provisions of the Companies Act , they can be prosecuted thereunder. If they have violated

the provisions of the SEBI Act , all actions taken thereunder may be taken

to their logical conclusion. A citizen of India has a right to carry on a

profession or business as envisaged by Article 19(1)(g) of the

Constitution of India. Any restriction imposed thereupon must be made

by reason of a law contemplated under Clause (6) thereof. In absence of

any valid law operating in the field, there would not be any source for

imposing penalty. A right to carry on trade is a constitutional right. By

reason of the penalty imposed, the Board inter alia has taken away the

said constitutional right for a period of ten years which, in our opinion, is

impermissible in law as the Regulations were not attracted. In Sterlite Industries (India) Ltd. v. Securities and Exchange Board

of India [(2001) 31 SCL 485: (2001) 45 CLA 195 (SAT)] , the Chairman

of the Board vide its order had prohibited the appellant, a public limited

company through its directors from accessing the capital market for a

period of two years and also ordered to initiate prosecution proceedings

under Section 24 read with Section 27 of the Act for violation of Regulation 4(a) and 4(d) of the FUTP regulations against the appellant. 19 Setting aside the impugned order, the Tribunal on the applicability

of Sections 11 and 11B of the Act on barring the appellant from

accessing the capital market while referring to its decision in Bank of

Baroda opined: While negating the views of the Single Judge, and upholding the

respondent's power to issue such a direction under Section 11B it was

held that the Act provides for remedial measures and, thus, it was entitled

to issue any direction. It was, however, held : It was furthermore held : [Emphasis supplied]

 Similar observations were made in BPL Limited v. Securities &

Exchange Board of India, SEBI [2002] 38 SCL 310 (SAT) and Videocon

International Ltd. v. Securities & Exchange Board of India, Shri D.R.

Mehta, Chairman, SEBI and Dr. R.K. Kakkar, Division Chief, SEBI [2002] 38 SCL 422. 19. Ritesh Agarwal and Deepak Agarwal are said to be minors. As

they were minors having regard to the provisions of the Indian Contract

Act , they could not have been proceeded against strictly in terms of the

provisions of the said Act. Apart from the actions taken by the Board,

the persons who undertook those fraudulent actions may also be held to

be guilty of making a mis-representation and commission of fraud not 24 only before the prospective purchasers of the shares but also before the

statutory authority. The same, however, would itself not mean that a

minor would not be penalized for entering into a contract which per se

was not enforceable. A contract must be entered into by a person who

can make a promise or make an offer. If he cannot make an offer or in

his favour an offer cannot be made, the contract would be void as an

agreement which is not enforceable in law would be void. Section 11 of

the Indian Contract Act provides that the person who is competent to

contract must be of the age of majority. If Ritesh Agarwal and Deepak

Agarwal were minors, as would appear from their birth certificates, they

could not have entered into the contract. 20. We, therefore, are of the opinion that subject to any other or

further order which the Board may pass as against Shri Surender Kumar

Agarwal and Smt. Rooprekha Agarwal, the impugned directions would

not be binding on Ritesh Agarwal and Deepak Agarwal. 21. We do not accept the contention of Ms. Aggarwal that the offence

is a continuing one. 22. We do not also accept the contention that Rooprekha Agarwal was

not a promoter and only promoters were Ritesh Polyesters Limited and

Surender Kumar Agarwal. We, however, accept the contention of Mr.

Sundaram that Ritesh Agarwal and Deepak Agarwal could not have

proceeded against for violation of the FUTP Regulations. 23. We, however, uphold other directions issued by the Board

including the action taken in respect of the offences purported to have

been committed. We also grant liberty to the authorities to proceed

against the offenders not only for other or further charges to which they

made themselves liable under the SEBI Act but also under the Companies Act, 1956 and other penal statutes, if attracted. 24. For the reasons aforementioned, the appeal is allowed to the

aforementioned extent. No costs. ...............................J.
 [S.B. Sinha] 26 ................................J.
 [Lokeshwar Singh Panta]
New Delhi; May 13, 2008