1. The writ petitioner has filed the present application for recalling of the

earlier order of this Court dated 26.02.2021 passed in WPO 372 of 2019

(Rajyashree Chudhuri vs. The State of West Bengal & Ors.) 2. Records reveal that by dint of the order dated 27.04.2022 this Court

directed, on the prayer made on behalf of the writ petitioner/applicant that, the

present application should be treated as one for modification and/or

clarification of the aforesaid order dated 26.02.2021 passed in WPO 372 of

2019. 3. It is further revealed that the substance of the writ petition which was

disposed of vide the aforesaid order dated 26.02.2021, was the grievance of the

petitioner regarding indiscriminate, uncontrolled, unauthorized, large scale

slaughtering of cattle including cows during the festival of Bakri-Eid, without

adhering to the laws laid down by the legislature and the courts including the

Hon'ble Supreme Court. 4. In the application, the applicant has stated inter alia that in the

judgment and order dated 26.02.2021, the main issue in the writ petition has

not been taken into consideration and the previous orders of this Court as well

as of the Apex Court in connection with the same subject matter were not

followed. The applicant has further contended that the order dated 26.02.2021

in fact has rendered the previous orders passed by this Court as well as the 3 Hon'ble Apex Court on the subject matter and also the provisions of West

Bengal Animal Slaughter (Control) Act, 1950 , nugatory or otiose. On such

grounds the application was taken out by the writ petitioner/appellant to pray

for the relief that the judgment and order dated 26.02.2021 in WPO 372 of

2019 be recalled and/or set aside. 5. It is profitable to mention in a nutshell the relevant orders with which

this writ petitions/modification application may have some concern. 6. In W.P No.328 of 2018 by dint of order dated 16.08.2018, this Court held

as follows:- c) In case of refusal to issue such certificate, the aggrieved
 person may prefer an appeal to the State Government within 15
 days of communication of such refusal. d) An animal, in respect of which a certificate has been issued,
 shall be slaughtered only in a Municipal Slaughter House or any
 other Slaughter House identified by the local administration. e) Nobody shall resist inspection of any premises by a person
 authorized by the Chairman of a Municipality or the Sabhapati of a
 Panchayat Samity as the case may be or the Veterinary Surgeon for
 implementing the provisions of the West Bengal Animal Slaughter
 Control Act, 1950 . f) Whoever contravenes any of the above provisions of law,
 shall be punishable with imprisonment for upto six months or with
 fine upto Rs.1000/- or with both. All offences under the 1950 Act
 shall be cognizable offences. 5 g) The relevant decisions of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India
 and the Calcutta High Court are available in the official website of
 the Department being http://wbard.gov.in. Public notice that will be issued shall be in the electronic and
 print media widely circulated in West Bengal in Bengali, Urdu,
 Hindu and English languages in terms of the earlier order of this
 Court dated 1st September, 2017. We trust and believe that the
 state respondents shall implement the order dated 1st September,
 2017 and this order in their true spirit and intent and shall also
 ensure compliance of the provisions of the West Bengal Animal
 Slaughter Control Act, 1950 ." 7. Ultimately W.P No.328 of 2018 was disposed of by dint of the order dated

21.08.2018 when the court held inter alia that:- 8. All the respondents have contested the matter by filing their respective

affidavits-in-opposition stating inter alia that the Kolkata Municipal

Corporation in accordance with the provisions of 1950 Act has made all

possible endeavors to prohibit and/or control unlawful slaughter of animals,

steps have been taken to issue public notices by the State Government in

newspapers of vernacular and other languages for raising awareness of the

public at large. 9. After disposal of the said writ petition the present petition being WPO

372 of 2019 was filed to pray for orders upon the State to ensure

implementation of the provisions of the West Bengal Animal Slaughter Control

Act, 1950 and also various orders of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India and

this Court, pertaining to slaughter of cattle, in particular cows and buffaloes,

during the festival of Bakri-Eid. 10. In that case, as per direction of the Court, the Commissioner of Kolkata

Municipal Corporation, in an affidavit filed on behalf of the Corporation,

delineated the measures they proposed to take in the matter which may be

reproduced as follows:- No place other than the said Municipal Slaughter Houses shall
 be permitted to be used a slaughter house. This does not however
 restrict the slaughter of any animal on the occasion of any religious
 festival or ceremony, in any place to be specified by the Municipal
 Commissioner by Public or Special Notice, as may be imposed. (c) No person is permitted and shall be permitted, without or
 otherwise than with conformity, with a license from the Municipal
 Commissioner to carry on the trade of a butcher, fishmonger,
 poulterer or importer of flesh. (d) No person is permitted and shall be permitted to sell or
 expose for sale any flesh obtained from an animal unless the
 skinned carcass of the animal is stamped in a particular manner as
 a token of the fact that the animal has been slaughtered in a
 municipal or licensed slaughter house. (e) The officers/employees concerned of the KMC exercise
 powers to inspect or examine any food or drug or any utensil or
 vessel used for preparing or storing any such food or drug. If on
 inspection or examined of any such food or drug any contravention
 of the provisions of the Act is detected, the persons found to have
 contravened the provision is prosecuted in accordance with law
 apart from seizure of the food/drugs etc. (f) The KMC and its officials exercise the powers to inspect the
 places where unlawful slaughter of animals is suspected and the
 animal or carcass of such animal or such flesh are seized if
 contravention of the provisions is found. (g) Slaughtering of animal is permitted and shall be permitted in
 Municipal slaughter houses only after the grant of certificate to the
 effect that the animal is fit slaughter." 11. It is found from the Court's order dated 26.02.2021 that the Kolkata

Municipal Corporation was directed to strictly enforce the above stated

measures to restrict any unauthorized or uncontrolled slaughtering of cattle

including cows. The court further directed that if the Corporation authorities

find any person violating the laws of the land with regard to slaughtering cattle

including cows and/or exhibiting for sale flesh of slaughtered cattle and/or

selling cattle meat or acting in breach of any restriction imposed by the

Corporation, then the Corporation authorities shall take immediate steps to

bring such violators to book in accordance with law including, if necessary, by

taking assistance of the police. 12. With the direction as above W.P.O No.372 of 2019 was disposed of. The

present application for modification arises mainly due to the apprehension of

the applicant that the order dated 26.02.2021 disposing of WPO 372 of 2019

may be interpreted by the respondent authorities in a way to make the orders

in the previous writ petition, that is, orders dated 16.08.2018, 17.08.2018,

21.08.2018 in W.P No.328 of 2018 inoperative, ineffective and to stand

superseded. 13. By filing the present modification application the writ petitioner/applicant

wants implementation of the orders passed in W.P No.328 of 2018 as

mentioned above. 14. Records of the case and the respective submission of the parties satisfy this

Court about prompt due and timely compliance of the Court's order so far as

publication of general notice by the respondent municipal authority and the

State in both the print and visual media, is concerned. It is found that due

notice covering all necessary and required elements therein have been

published in well circulated vernacular as well as English newspapers of the

State and also in visual media. Needless to mention that the necessity for such

news paper and other publication are for wide circulation of the relevant laws

and rules to the public at large in order to raise awareness amongst them and

also to get it circulated to as many citizens of the State as possible so that the

same may act as a deterrent in the minds of people, so far as animal

slaughtering is concerned. The way and manner in which the respondent 9 municipal authority and the State have acted in circulating the general notice,

the said purpose appears to have been fulfilled and Court's order duly

complied. 15. The State has filed two affidavits, affirmed on May 19, 2022 and June 22,

2022, respectively. Annexed to the said affidavits are copies of notices

published in various newspapers to make the members of the public aware of

the restrictions on slaughtering of animals imposed by statutes and orders of

Court. We are of the view that the State and the Municipal Authorities have

substantially complied with the orders of this Court. 16. On the basis of the aforesaid discussion we find that no further direction

would be necessary upon the respondent corporation insofar as it continues

the exercise of publication of such exhaustive general notice, as before, in well

circulated newspapers in vernacular as well as other languages and also in

visual media. Needless to mention that we have not been able to find any

cogent ground justifying applicant's plea that the order dated 26.02.2021

delivered in WPO 372 of 2019 may by any way tantamount to superseding the

orders passed in W.P No.328 of 2018 including the order dated 21.08.2018.

However, in any event we clarify that the order dated 26.02.2021 in no manner

supersedes or affects the validity of the orders passed by this Court in W.P No.

328 of 2018 including the order dated 21.08.2018. Such orders remain in full

force and must be given effect to by the State and Municipal Authorities in

their true spirit and intent. 17. We also emphasize that the restrictions imposed by law including the

orders of Court on animal slaughter, must also be given due publicity through

the audio-visual media like television. It has been noticed that the State

Government uses the Mobile Phone including SMS (Short Message Service) to

spread messages of public importance. The Government should explore that

avenue also to make the general people aware of the restrictions on slaughter

of animals during Bakri-Eid and in general. 18. With the direction as above G.A. No.1 of 2021 is disposed of. 19. There will be no order as to costs. 20. Urgent certified website copies of this judgment, if applied for, be supplied

to the parties subject to compliance with all the requisite formalities. (Rai Chattopadhyay, J.)

I agree. (Arijit Banerjee, J.)