Hon'ble Mahesh Chandra Tripathi,J. Hon'ble Siddhartha Varma,J. (Delivered by Hon'ble Mahesh Chandra Tripathi, J.) 1.	Heard Sri Saghir Ahmad, learned Senior Advocate/Amicus Curiae and Sri Manish Goyal, learned Additional Advocate General, assisted by Sri Amit Sinha and Sri J.K.Upadhyay, learned Additional Government Advocates for the State of U.P. 2.	This writ petition has been listed before us in view of reference made by a Division Bench of this Court, considering the various provisions of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act 20151 and the law laid down by various Courts. While referring the case to Hon'ble the Chief Justice to constitute a larger Bench, the Division Bench framed following issues to be decided by the larger Bench:- 3.	Since the reference is desired to be resolved by the larger Bench, the same has come up for consideration before us under the order of Hon'ble the Chief Justice dated 26.1.2021. 4.	Present Habeas Corpus Writ Petition has been filed by the petitioners seeking a writ of habeas corpus, commanding 4th respondent/Superintendent, Children Home (Girl), District Saharanpur to release corpus/2nd petitioner Km. Anchal, who has been illegally detained in the Children Home (Girl) District Saharanpur. 5.	Brief matrix of the case, as is reflected from the record, is that the first information report was lodged by the mother of second petitioner on 16.2.2020, alleging that on 15.2.2020 her minor daughter Km. Anchal2 aged 17 years has been enticed by one Arjun S/o Rishipal. She also alleged that while leaving the house, the petitioner corpus had taken certain ornaments and cash amount. She also alleged that the father, mother and brother of Arjun had helped him in taking the petitioner corpus. The first information report was registered under Sections 363 and 366 of IPC against Arjun, his parents and relatives at Police Station Behat, District Saharanpur. The petitioner corpus was recovered on 04.3.2020 and on the same day, her statement under Section 161 Cr. P.C. was recorded, wherein she alleged that as quite often, she was beaten by her mother and out of frustration, without informing her parents, she had left home on 15.2.2020 and gone to the house of her friend namely Km. Rachna-first petitioner (sister of Arjun). She made a statement that she had gone of her own freewill and was living with her friend. However, she refused for medical examination. As per High School Certificate, her age has been found to be 17 years, whereas as per radiological examination conducted on 06.3.2020, her age was found to be about 20 years. Her statement under Section 164 of Cr. P.C. was also recorded on 07.3.2020, wherein she also reiterated her previous statement made under Section 161 Cr.P.C. 6.	Thereafter, the petitioner corpus was produced before the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Saharanpur on 13.3.2020. It was submitted by the police that as per High School Certificate, the age of the petitioner corpus is 17 years & 20 days and, therefore, suitable order be passed in regard to her custody. The mother of petitioner corpus also filed an application before the Chief Judicial Magistrate to the effect that the petitioner corpus is minor and, therefore, in the interest of justice, she may be sent to Balika Vikas Grih/Child Development Home. The finding was recorded by the Magistrate, determining the age of petitioner corpus to be 17 years. The Magistrate had directed for producing her before Bal Kalyan Samiti/Child Welfare Committee3 for issuance of further direction with regard to the custody of petitioner corpus. Pursuant to the order passed by the Magistrate, the petitioner corpus was produced before the Committee and an order was passed by the Committee for keeping her in Children Home (Girl). Pursuant to the said order, the petitioner corpus is in Children Home (Girl) Saharanpur. 7.	Aggrieved with the said order, the present petition has been preferred for issuance of a writ of habeas corpus. While pressing the writ petition before the Division Bench, it has been urged that in her statement under Section 164 of Cr. P.C., the petitioner-corpus has categorically stated that on account of torture by her mother and brother, she left her house and is living happily with the first petitioner. Once the custody of the petitioner corpus has been denied by her parents, the petitioner corpus wanted to go with the first petitioner and therefore, she cannot be sent to Children Home (Girl) against her wishes. Even if the petitioner corpus is minor, she cannot be kept in Children Home (Girl) against her wishes. 8.	Before the Division Bench, learned A.G.A. opposed the petition by claiming that the petitioner corpus is minor as per her date of birth recorded in the High School certificate. It has been urged that the age of the petitioner corpus is to be determined by applying the principles provided in Section 94 of the J.J. Act under which primacy is to be recorded to the date of birth entered in the educational certificate over the medical evidence. It has also been objected by learned A.G.A. that the writ of habeas corpus is not maintainable as the order impugned has been passed by the Committee pursuant to the order of the Magistrate and the judicial order, right or wrong cannot be questioned/assailed in petition seeking writ of hapeas corpus. It has also been urged that the petitioner corpus has efficacious alternative remedy of filing an appeal under Section 101 of the J.J. Act. The plea was taken that the Committee had exercised the power of Magistrate and in view of the provisions of Section 27 of the J.J. Act, for all purposes, the Committee acts like the Magistrate. Once the order has been passed by the Magistrate then it can only be assailed before the appropriate Court by filing an appeal. 9.	The Division Bench considered two sets of judgements; (i) the first set of judgements laid down the law that writ of habeas corpus is maintainable, even if the same has been filed against a judicial order of the Magistrate, sending the corpus to Juvenile Home/Nari Niketan/Child Care Home or any other Home duly authorized/recognized and (ii) in second set of judgements, contrary view has been taken by the coordinate Benches of this Court, wherein it has been held that if a corpus has been sent to the Juvenile Home/Nari Niketan/Child Care Home pursuant to the order passed by the Committee, detention of the corpus cannot be said to be illegal, requiring issuance of a writ of habeas corpus. (FIRST SET OF JUDGEMENTS) 10.	The reliance has been placed before the Division Bench on the judgement of this Court in Menu Patel vs. State of UP4 , wherein it has been held as under:- 11.	Similar view has also been taken in ( Smt. Neelam vs. State of Uttar Pradesh and ors5 in which a Division Bench of this Court has again held that:- 12.	The reliance has also been placed on the judgement in Pushpa Devi vs. State of Uttar Pradesh & ors6, wherein it was held:- (emphasis supplied) 13.	The Division Bench in the case of Smt. Raj Kumari vs. Superintendent, Women Protection, Meerut & ors.7 had taken a similar view and held as under:- 14.	Before the Division Bench, the reliance has also been placed on the judgement passed in Kajal & another vs. State of Uttar Pradesh & ors.8, wherein it has been held as under:- ... ... ... Thus, merely because the petitioner has been sent to Nari Niketan pursuant to a judicial order which per se appears to be without jurisdiction, her detention cannot be labelled as "legal" rendering this Habeas Corups writ petition liable to be dismissed as not maintainable." (SECOND SET OF JUDGEMENTS) 15.	Contrary view has been taken by the coordinate Bench of this Court in the case of Saurabh Pandey v. State of Uttar Pradesh10 , which reads as under:- 16.	Similar view has also been taken in the case of Smt. Shahjahan v. State of Uttar Pradesh & Ors.11 , wherein it has been observed as under:- 17.	Further, in the case of Km. Mona @ Reema v. State of Uttar Pradesh12 it has been held as under:- 18. In the case of Guria Bhagat @ Guria Rawani v. State of Jharkhand & Ors13 it has been held as under:- 19. In Smt. Himani v. State of Uttar Pradesh & Ors.14 it has been held that:- 20. In the case of Akash Kumar v. State of Jharkhand & Ors.15 it has been held by the Jharkhand High Court that:- 21.	The Division Bench has also considered the judgement passed by Madhya Pradesh High Court in the case Irfan Khan v. State of MP & Ors.16 The Gujarat High Court, in Manish S/o Natvarlal Vaghela vs. State of Gujarat17 has dealt with the similar question and held that: 22.	The Division Bench also considered the Full Bench judgement passed by Patna High Court in the case of Shikha Kumari v. State of Bihar18 , wherein the matter was referred to the larger Bench and it has held by the Bench that: Answer : Our irresistible conclusion in view of the ratio laid down by the Supreme Court in the aforementioned cases is that a writ of habeas corpus would not be maintainable, if the detention in custody is as per judicial orders passed by a Judicial Magistrate or a court of competent jurisdiction. Consequently an order of remand passed by a Judicial Magistrate having competent jurisdiction cannot be assailed or set aside in a writ of habeas corpus. Question No.2: "Whether an order of remand passed by a Judicial Magistrate could be reviewed in a petition seeking the writ of habeas corpus, holding such order of remand to be an illegal detention ?" Answer: In view of the clear, unambiguous and consistent view of the Supreme Court in the aforediscussed cases, we unhesitatingly conclude and hold that an illegal order of judicial remand cannot be termed/viewed as an illegal detention." 23.	The Division Bench has also proceeded to observe that apart from above mentioned cases, attention of this Court has also been drawn to many other cases, wherein issuance of a writ of habeas corpus has been held to be maintainable, whereas in some cases, the view of this Court is otherwise. Such situation impelled the Division Bench for formulating the aforementioned questions to be decided by the larger Bench. 24.	 Sri Saghir Ahmad, learned Senior Advocate/Amicus Curiae submitted that the habeas corpus writ petition is not maintainable and the efficacious remedy of the petitioner is to file an appeal. 25.	Sri Manish Goyal, learned Additional Advocate General, appearing for the State of U.P., submitted that the writ of habeas corpus is not maintainable as the order impugned has been passed by the Committee pursuant to the order of the Magistrate and the judicial order, right or wrong, cannot be challenged in a petition seeking writ of habeas corpus. The petitioner corpus has an efficacious alternative remedy of filing an appeal under Section 101 of J.J. Act and the judicial order can only be challenged before the appellate Court. While passing the order impugned, the Committee has exercised the power of Magistrate and in view of the provisions of Section 27 of the J.J. Act, for all purposes, the Committee acts like the Magistrate. Once the order has been passed by the Magistrate, then it can only be assailed before the appropriate Court by filing an appeal. 26.	It has been submitted that sub-section (4) of Section 1 of J.J. Act provides that provision of the J.J. Act shall apply to all the matters concerning children in need of care and protection and children in conflict with law. He has also placed reliance on Section 2 (14) (iii) (a) of J.J. Act, which provides that "child in need of care and protection" means a child who resides with a person (whether a guardian of child or not) and such person has injured, exploited, abused or neglected the child or has violated any other law for the time being in force for the protection of child. Therefore, the girl child detained in Nari Niketan/Children Home will come under child in need of care and protection. In such situation, Section 27 of J.J. Act would be attracted, wherein there is provision of Child Welfare Committee, which deals with child in need of care and protection and the State Government has been empowered to constitute for every district, one or more Child Welfare Committees for exercising the powers and to discharge the duties conferred on such Committees in relation to children in need of care and protection. Section 27 (9) provides that the Committee shall function as a Bench and shall have the powers conferred by the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973 on a Metropolitan Magistrate or, as the case may be, a Judicial Magistrate of First Class. Under Sections 29 and 37 of J.J. Act, the Child Welfare Committee has powers to send the children to children's home or fit facility etc. Therefore, he submitted that a person aggrieved by an order passed by the Child Welfare Committee can file an appeal in the Children Court under Section 101 of the J.J. Act. The order passed by the Committee pursuant to which the corpus has been sent to Children's Home or Nari Niketan is a judicial order and hence, the detension of corpus cannot be termed to be illegal. Moreover, the order passed by the Committee is appealable and hence the Habeas Corpus Petition is not maintainable and is liable to be dismissed. 27.	Shri Manish Goyal, learned Additional Advocate General further submitted that in Smt. Neelam vs. State of UP & 4 others (supra); Rahul Kumar Singh & another vs. State of UP 19 and Kajal & another vs. State of UP and ors (supra), as relied upon by the Division Bench, wherein the Habeas Corpus Writ Petitions had been maintained, the Court had failed to consider the provisions of J.J. Act and as such, it may safely be said that the orders passed in the aforesaid cases are per incuriam. In support of his submission, he has placed reliance on the judgement passed by the Full Bench of Patna High Court in Shikha Kumari vs. State of Bihar (supra) and submitted that so far as the questions formulated by this Court are concerned, in similar circumstances, the Patna High Court in Shikha Kumari 's case (supra) has considered and answered all the three questions. 28.	Having heard the parties, apart from considering the issues referred by the Division Bench, we need to deal with certain ancillary issues attached in cases of elopement of minor girls and on recovery, sending them to Nari Niketan/Protection Home/Care Home. We find increasing number of habeas corpus petitions being filed by the parents/guardians or alleged husband for production of their wards or wife, who leave their parental houses in these "Run away Marriages". While the parents of the couples go through agony, the couples are on the run with husband being accused of kidnapping and/or rape. The Court while dealing with habeas corpus petitions are required to ensure that the person whose production is sought is not illegally detained. For this purpose, the court ascertains whether the person is being detained against his/her wishes or is otherwise illegally detained and gives directions, as required. In most of the cases, where a minor girl after meeting her parents and/or on reflection has second thoughts about her marriage or escaped, her custody is restored to parents as in the first case. Generally, difficulty arises in cases where the minor girl has entered into matrimonial alliance and is steadfast in her resolve to continue to cohabit with the partner of her choice. At times, the girl is even on family way. 29.	Let us notice the legal position with regard to marriages performed with below the prescribed age under the " Hindu Mariage Act, 1955 " and the " Child Marriage Restraint Act,1929 ". For facility of reference, we reproduce the relevant provisions contained in Sections 5(iii) , 11 , 12 and 18 of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955. 11. Void marriages.- Any marriage solemnized after the commencement of this Act shall be null and void any may, on a petition presented by either party thereto (against the other party), be so declared by a decree of nullity if it contravenes any one of the conditions specified in clauses (i), (iv) and (v) of Section 5 . 12. Voidable marriages.- (1) Any marriage solemnized, whether before or after the commencement of this Act, shall be voidable and may be annulled by a decree of nullity on any of the following grounds, namely:- 18. Punishment for contravention of certain other conditions for Hindu marriage.- Every person who procures a marriage of himself or herself to be solemnized under this Act in contravention of the conditions Page 2377 specified in clauses (iii), (iv), and (v) of Section 5 shall be punishable- 30.	From a perusal of the grounds given in Sections 11 and 12 of the Hindu Marriage Act, as reproduced above, it would be seen that contravention of the prescribed age under Section 5(iii) of the Act is not given as a ground on which the marriage could be void or voidable. We are also conscious that the Legislature at the same time desired to discourage child marriages. To fulfill such an obligation the Legislature enacted " Child Marriage Restraint Act, 1929 ". The object and intent of the Act is to prevent child marriages. Definition of child is, "For a male who has not completed 21 years of age and for a female, who has not completed 18 years of age". The Act aims to restrain performances of child marriages. At the same time, the said Act does not affect the validity of a marriage, even though it may be in contravention of the age prescribed under the Act. In spite of the marriage not being declared void or made voidable, no doubt the Legislature disapproves of child marriages and makes the performance of such marriage punishable under the law with imprisonment which can extend up to three months and with fine. Even Section 12 of the Act provides to issue an injunction to prevent performance of any child marriage. There appears to be a rationale and public policy in the Legislature not making marriages solemnized in breach of the statutory age, as prescribed under the Hindu Marriage Act and the Child Marriage Restraint Act , void or voidable. The Legislature was conscious of the fact that if such marriages performed in contravention of the age restriction, are made void or voidable it could lead to serious consequences and exploitation of the women, who are vulnerable on account of their social and economic circumstances. Both the Acts are aimed to discourage performance of such marriages by making them punishable with imprisonment and fine, while recognizing the necessity of protecting marriages performed even though in contravention of the prescribed age as valid and subsisting. (Ref. Seema Devi @ Simran Kaur v. State of H.P.20 and Lila Gupta v. Laxmi Narain21 ). 31.	The Apex Court in Lila Gupta v. Laxmi Narain (supra) while reviewing the provisions of the Hindu Marriage Act in the context of a case falling within ambit of proviso to Section 15 observed as under:- 6. A comprehensive review of the relevant provisions of the Act unmistakably manifests the legislative thrust that every marriage solemnised in contravention of one or other condition prescribed for valid marriage is not void. Section 5 prescribes six conditions for valid marriage. Section 11 renders marriage solemnised in contravention of conditions (i), (iv) and (v) of Section 5 only, void. Two incontrovertible propositions emerge from a combined reading of Sections 5 and 11 and other provisions of the Act, that the Act specifies conditions for valid marriage and a marriage contracted in breach of some but not all of them renders the marriage void. The statute thus prescribes conditions for valid marriage and also does not leave it to inference that each one of such conditions is mandatory and a contravention, violation or breach of any one of them would be treated as a breach of a pre-requisite for a valid marriage rendering it void. The law while prescribing conditions for valid marriage simultaneously prescribes that breach of some of the conditions but not all would render the marriage void. Simultaneously, the Act is conspicuously silent on the effect on a marriage solemnised in contravention or breach of the time bound prohibition enacted in Section 15 . A further aspect that stares into the fact is that while a marriage solemnised in contravention of Clauses (iii), (iv), (v) and (vi) of Section 5 is made penal, a marriage in contravention of the prohibition prescribed by the proviso does not attract any penalty. The Act is suggestively silent on the question as to what is the effect on the marriage contracted by two persons one or both of whom were incapacitated from contracting marriage at the time when it was contracted in view of the fact that a period of one year ha not elapsed since the dissolution of their earlier marriage by a decree of divorce granted by the Court or first instance. Such a marriage is not expressly declared void nor made punishable though marriages in breach of conditions Nos. (iii), (iv), (v) and (vi) of Section 5 are specifically made punishable by Section 18 . These express provisions would show that Parliament was aware about treating any specific marriage void and only specific marriages punishable. This express provision prima facie would go a long way to negative any suggestion of a marriage being void though not Page 2378 covered by Section 11 such as in breach of proviso to Section 15 as being void by necessary implication. The net effect of it is that at any rate Parliament did not think fit to treat such marriage void or that it is so opposed to public policy as to make it punishable." 32.	The reference to "age of discretion" is to be seen in the context of the girls having left of their own without inducement or enticement for the purpose of the charge of kidnapping and not to suggest any approval of the errant conduct. 33.	The matter is no longer res-integra. The question has been considered in several cases. In Gindan and others v. Barelal22 the High Court of Madhya Pradesh held that a marriage solemnised in contravention of age mentioned in Section 5(iii) of Hindu Marriage Act is neither void ab initio nor even voidable and such violation of Section 5(iii) does not find place either in Section 11 or in Section 12 of the Act. The Court has said that it is only punishable as an offence under Section 18 and the marriage solemnised would remain valid, enforceable and recognisable in courts of law. 34. In Smt. Lila Gupta v. Laxmi Narain and others (supra) the Apex Court considered the proviso to Section 15 of the Hindu Marriage Act. While doing so, the Apex Court referred to the provisions of Section 5 and also Sections 11 and 12 of the Hindu Marriage Act. The following passages in the judgment of the Supreme Court are quite relevant and instructive: 35.	Hon'ble Supreme Court had also considered the provisions of the Child Marriage Restraint Act and observed that any marriage in contravention of the provisions of the said Act would only lead to punishment and that the marriage would not be void. In Shankerappa v. Sushilabai23 , the Court held that the marriage solemnised in violation of the conditions concerning age of eligibility of Section 5 (iii) would not be a nullity and such a violation is only made punishable under Section 18 . The Court relied upon the judgment of the Supreme Court in Lila Gupta 's case (supra). In most of the cases it has also been urged that the custody cannot be entrusted to the accused as he is facing a criminal trial under Sections 363 , 366 , 368 and 376 of the Indian Penal Code. So long as he is the husband and the marriage between him and the petitioner is valid, he is entitled to custody unless a competent Court passes an order otherwise. 36.	In order to bring clarity to the matter, we deem it appropriate to consider whether a writ of habeas corpus is maintainable against the judicial order passed by the Magistrate or by the Child Welfare Committee under Section 27 of the J.J. Act sending the victim to the Juvenile Home/Nari Niketan/Child Care Home and to firstly examine the literal meaning and ambit of writ of habeas corpus. In Halsbury Laws of England24, it is observed : 37.	According to Dicey (A. V. Dicey), Introduction to the Study of Law of the Constitution, Macmillan and Co., Ltd., p.215(1915): "if, in short, any man, woman or child is, or is asserted on apparently good grounds to be deprived of liberty, the court will always issue a writ of habeas corpus to anyone who has the aggrieved person in his custody to have such person brought before the court and if he is suffering restraint without lawful cause, set him free." 38.	In Greene vs. Home Secretary25, it has been observed : 39.	In India, by Articles 32 and 226 of Constitution of India, the Supreme Court and all the High Courts got jurisdiction to issue writ of habeas corpus throughout their respective territorial jurisdiction when the Constitution came into force. Article 21 of the Constitution of India provides that no person shall be deprived of his life or personal liberty except according to procedure established by law. 40. In Smt. Maneka Gandhi vs. Union of India & Anr.26 , it has been held by the Apex Court that the procedure established by law as contemplated under Article 21 should be just, fair and reasonable and any unjust, unfair and unreasonable procedure by which liberty of a person is taken away shall destroy such freedom. There is also difference between a writ of Habeas Corpus maintained under Article 32 and under Article 226 of Constitution of India. A writ of habeas corpus under Article 32 of the Constitution of India in the Supreme Court is available in case of violation of fundamental rights guaranteed under Article 21 but it does not relate to interference with the personal liberty by a private citizen. However, the High Court has jurisdiction to issue writ of habeas corpus under Article 226 of the Constitution of India not only for violation of fundamental rights of freedom but also for other purposes. The High Court can issue such writ against a private person also. 41.	The nature and scope of the writ of habeas corpus has been considered by the Constitution Bench of the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Kanu Sanyal vs. District Magistrate, Darjeeling & Ors.27 and it was held:- 42.	It is also well settled that in dealing with a petition for habeas corpus the Court has to see whether the detention on the date, on which the application is made to the Court, is legal, if nothing more has intervened between the date of the application and the date of hearing. ..." (Ref. A.K. Gopalan v. Government of India28 ). 43. In Janardan Reddy & Ors. vs. The State of Hyderabad & Ors.,29 the petitioners, who were convicted by a Special Tribunal of Hyderabad of murder and other offences and sentenced to death by hanging and whose conviction and sentence have been confirmed by the Hyderabad High Court, applied to the Supreme Court under Article 32 for writs of prohibition, certiorari and habeas corpus. While considering the maintainability of the writ petition, the Supreme Court observed that there is a basic difference between want of jurisdiction and an illegal or irregular exercise of jurisdiction, mere non-compliance with the rules of procedure (e.g, misjoinder of charges) cannot be made a ground for granting a writ under Article 32 of the Constitution. The defect, if any, can, according to the procedure established by law, be corrected only by a court of appeal or revision, and if the appellate court, which was competent to deal with the matter, has considered the matter and pronounced its judgment, it cannot be reopened in a proceeding under Article 32 of the Constitution. The Supreme Court further observed that the writ of habeas corpus could not be granted as a return that the person is in detention in execution of a sentence on indictment of a criminal charge, is sufficient answer to an application for such a writ. 44.	It can be safely said that a writ of habeas corpus could not be issued, firstly, in cases where the detention or custody is authorized by an order of remand issued by a competent court of jurisdiction and secondly, where a person is committed to jail by a competent court by an order which does not appear to be without jurisdiction. The order has to be passed by a court of competent jurisdiction. It is, moreover, well settled that no writ of habeas corpus lies against the order of remand made by a court of competent jurisdiction. It is well accepted principle that a writ of habeas corpus is not to be entertained when a person is committed to judicial custody or police custody by the competent court by an order which prima facie does not appear to be without jurisdiction or passed in an absolutely mechanical or wholly illegal manner. In B. Ramachandra Rao vs. State of Orissa30 and Kanu Sanyal vs. District Magistrate, Darjeeling & Ors (supra) it has been held by the Apex Court that the Court is required to scrutinise the legality or otherwise of the order of detention, which has been passed. Unless the Court is satisfied that a person has been committed to jail custody by virtue of an order that suffers from the vice of lack of jurisdiction or absolute illegality, a writ of habeas corpus cannot be granted. 45. In State of Maharashtra & Ors. vs. Tasneem Rizwan Siddiquee31 the question before the Supreme Court was again as to whether a writ of habeas corpus could be maintained in respect of a person, who is in police custody pursuant to remand order passed by the Jurisdictional Magistrate in connection with offence under investigation. In that case, relying on the ratio laid down in Saurabh Kumar vs. Jailor , Koneila Jail & Anr.32 and Manubhai Ratilal Patel vs. State of Gujrat & Ors.33 the Supreme Court held as follows :- (emphasis supplied) 46. In Serious Fraud Investigation Office vs. Rahul Modi & Anr.,34 the Supreme Court cancelled bail granted by the Delhi High Court to Rahul Modi and Mukesh Modi accused of duping investors of several hundred crores through a ponzi scheme run by their Gujarat based other co-operative societies. Both the accused were released by the Delhi High Court in a habeas corpus writ petition even though they were remanded to judicial custody under the orders of a competent court. After elaborately dealing with the ratio laid down by the Supreme Court in earlier cases, the Supreme Court held as follows :- (emphasis supplied) 47.	Before we proceed to set out our answer and examine the provisions of J.J. Act , we will pause to observe that J.J. Act is a self-contained Act and is designed to further the ends of justice and not to frustrate them by the introduction of endless technicalities. The object of J.J. Act is to ensure and cater the need of the child, who is in conflict with law and child in need of care and protection etc. The language of J.J. Act is conclusive and must be construed according to ordinary principles, so as to give effect to the plain meaning of the language used. No doubt, in the case of an ambiguity, that meaning must be preferred which is more in accord with justice and convenience, but in general the words used read in their context must prevail. We may now proceed to examine the relevant sections of the J.J. Act , which generally deals with the issue before us. Sub-section (4) of Section 1 of the J.J. Act reads as under:- Sub- section 14 (iii) (a) of Section 2 of the Act is as under: ... ... ... (iii) who resides with a person (whether a guardian of the child or not) and such person-- (a) has injured, exploited, abused or neglected the child or has violated any other law for the time being in force meant for the protection of child" 48.	The "juvenile" has been defined in Section 2(35) of the J.J. Act to mean a child below the age of eighteen years. The word "child" has been defined in Section 2(12) of the J.J. Act to mean a person who has not completed eighteen years of age. The phrase "child in conflict with law" has been defined under Section 2(13) of the J.J. Act to mean a child who is alleged or found to have committed an offence and who has not completed eighteen years of age on the date of commission of such offence. Section 2(14) of the J.J. Act defines the phrase "child in need of care and protection", as under:- 49.	The 'Child Welfare Committee' finds place in Section 27 of Chapter-V of the J.J. Act. Section 27 (1) provides that the State Government shall by notification in the Official Gazette constitute for every district, one or more Child Welfare Committees for exercising the powers and to discharge the duties conferred on such Committees in relation to children in need of care and protection under this Act. The powers of the Comittee are defined in Section 27 (9) . Provisions of Section 27 (9) of the J.J. Act make it clear that while passing such orders, the Committee exercises the power of Judicial Magistrate. Section 27 of the Act reads as under: 50. Section 29 of the J.J. Act is as under:- 51.	The functions and responsibilities of the Committee are defined in Section 30 of the J.J. Act, which read as under:- (iv ) conducting inquiry for declaring fit persons for care of children in need of care and protection; (v ) directing placement of a child in foster care; (vi ) ensuring care, protection, appropriate rehabilitation or restoration of children in need of care and protection, based on the child's individual care plan and passing necessary directions to parents or guardians or fit persons or children's homes or fit facility in this regard; (vii ) selecting registered institution for placement of each child requiring institutional support, based on the child's age, gender, disability and needs and keeping in mind the available capacity of the institution; (viii ) conducting at least two inspection visits per month of residential facilities for children in need of care and protection and recommending action for improvement in quality of services to the District Child Protection Unit and the State Government; (ix ) certifying the execution of the surrender deed by the parents and ensuring that they are given time to reconsider their decision as well as making all efforts to keep the family together; (x ) ensuring that all efforts are made for restoration of abandoned or lost children to their families following due process, as may be prescribed; (xi ) declaration of orphan, abandoned and surrendered child as legally free for adoption after due inquiry; (xii ) taking suo motu cognizance of cases and reaching out to children in need of care and protection, who are not produced before the Committee, provided that such decision is taken by at least three members; (xiii ) taking action for rehabilitation of sexually abused children who are reported as children in need of care and protection to the Committee by Special Juvenile Police Unit or local police, as the case may be, under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 ; (xiv ) dealing with cases referred by the Board under sub-section (2 ) of section 17 ; (xv ) co-ordinate with the police, labour department and other agencies involved in the care and protection of children with support of the District Child Protection Unit or the State Government; (xvi ) in case of a complaint of abuse of a child in any child care institution, the Committee shall conduct an inquiry and give directions to the police or the District Child Protection Unit or labour department or childline services, as the case may be; (xvii ) accessing appropriate legal services for children; (xviii ) such other functions and responsibilities, as may be prescribed." 52. Section 36 of the J.J. Act deals with the Inquiry. It reads as under:- 53. Section 37 empowers the Child Welfare Committee that on being satisfied through the inquiry that the child before the Committee is a child in need of care and protection, it may, on consideration of Social Investigation Report submitted by Child Welfare Officer and taking into account the child's wishes in case the child is sufficiently mature to take a view, pass one or more of the following orders as provided in clauses (a) to (h) of Sub-Section (1) of Section 37 . Section 37 of the J.J. Act is reproduced below: 54.	We are also of the opinion that the Magistrate or the Committee in case directing the girl to be kept in protective home under the J.J. Act the Magistrate or the Committee, as may be, should give credence to her wish. 55. Section 101 of the Act reads as under:- 56. Section 102 of the Act is as under: 57. In Kanu Sanyal vs. District Magistrate, Darjeeling & Ors. (supra), while dealing with writ of habeas corpus, the Supreme Court has held that it is essentially a procedural writ. It deals with the machinery of justice and not the substantive law. The object of the writ is to secure release of a person, who is illegally restrained of his/her liberty. In Manubhai Ratilal Patel vs. State of Gujrat & Ors. (supra), the Supreme Court has held that a writ of habeas corpus is not to be entertained when a person is committed to judicial custody or police custody by the competent court by an order which prima facie does not appear to be without jurisdiction or passed in an absolutely mechanical or wholly illegal manner. In Saurabh Kumar vs. Jailor, Koneila Jail & Anr. (supra), the Supreme Court has held that since the petitioner was in judicial custody by virtue of an order passed by a Judicial Magistrate and, hence, it could not be held to be an illegal detention. The Supreme Court has further held that even if the Magistrate has acted mechanically in remanding the accused to judicial custody and has dealt with the process in a cavalier fashion which shows inconsistencies towards the denial of personal liberty of citizen, a writ of habeas corpus would not be maintainable. In State of Maharashtra & Ors. vs. Tasneem Rizwan Siddiquee (supra), the Supreme Court has held that no writ of habeas corpus could be issued when the detenue was in detention pursuant to an order passed by the Court. In Serious Fraud Investigation Office vs. Rahul Modi & Anr. (supra), the Supreme Court has held that the action of directing remand of an accused is a judicial function and challenge to the same is not to be entertained in habeas corpus writ petition. 58. In Jaya Mala Vs. Home Secretary, Government of Jammu & Kashmir and Others35 , it was held by Hon'ble Supreme Court as under: 59. In order to bring clarity to the matter, we deem it appropriate to consider the judgement of Raj Kumari vs. Superintendent Women Protection House and others (supra), wherein it has been held that a minor cannot be sent to Nari Niketan against her wishes and the same preposition of law is being incorporated in the orders passed by this Court while entertaining the Habeas Corpus Writ Petition of minor girl, who has been detained in Nari Niketan by a judicial order. 60.	So far as the reliance over the judgements given by the Division Bench of this Court in the first set of judgments, as referred above , are concerned, all the Division Benches have referred the judgement in Ms. Kalyani Chaudhary vs. State of UP ( supra) and Raj Kumari vs. Superintendent Women Protection House and others (supra) 61. In Ms. Kalyani Chaudhary vs. State of UP (supra) the petitioner claimed that she was wrongully detained in Mahila Ashram, Moti Nagar, Lucknow. She accordingly had prayed for a writ in the nature of habeas corpus. The Court had formulated the question for determination as to whether her deterntion in Mahila Ashram, which is a Protective Home, is in accordance with law and proceeded to observe that Protective Homes find a mention in the Suppression of Immoral Traffic in Women and Girls Act, 1956 (in short, the Act of 1956). Sub-section (2) of Section 10 of the Act of 1956 provides that where a woman or girl is convicted of any offence under Section 7 or Section 8 , she may be kept in the protective homes. The Court further proceeded to consider the provisions of Suppression of Immoral Traffic in Women and Girls Act and observed that a person can be kept in a Protective Home only when she is being dealt with under the Act. No person can be kept in the protective home unless she is required to be kept there either in pursuance of the Suppression of Immoral Traffic in Women and Girls Act, or under some other law permitting her detention in such a Home. The Court categorically proceeded to observe that "it is admitted that the case does not fall under this Act, no other law has been referred to. The order of the learned Magistrate gives no reason why the girl be kept in the Protective Home. His order mentions no provision of law under which he has passed such a direction. The order of the Magistrate directing the girl to be kept to the 'Protective Home' thus suffers from inherent lack of jurisdiction. Her custody in the protective home cannot, therefore, be held to be a legal custody". The relevant portion of the judgement is reproduced herein below:- 62. In Raj Kumari vs. Superintendent Women Protection House and others (supra) the Court has also considered the case of Ms. Kalyani Chaudhary vs. State of UP (supra) wherein the Division Bench of this Court has taken the view that no person can be kept in a Protective Home unless she is required to be kept there either in pursuance of Immoral Traffic in Women & Girls Protection Act or under some other law permitting her detention in such a home. The Court had also considered the Division Bench judgement of Pushpa Devi vs. State of UP and allowed the habeas corpus writ petition. Relevant portion of the judgement is extracted herein below:- 63.	The Court had also considered an issue as to whether there is any authority for detention of the corpus with any person in law. Though it was pleaded that she has been detained in the Nari Niketan under the directions of the Magistrate, the first thing is to be seen as to whether the Magistrate can direct the detention of a person in the situation in which the petitioner is. No Magistrate has an absolute right to detain any person at the place of his choice or even any other place unless it can be justified by some law and procedure. The petitioner would not be accused of the offence under Sections 363 , 366 IPC because she could only be a victim of it. A victim may at best be a witness and there is no law atleast now has been quoted before us as to whether the Magistrate may direct detention of a witness simply because she does not like to go to any particular place. In such circumstances, the direction of the Magistrate that she shall be detained at Nari Niketan is absolutely without jurisdiction and illegal. 64.	Similar view has also been taken in Pushpa Devi vs. State of UP (supra) wherein the Division Bench of this Court had also formulated an issue as to whether the Magistrate can direct the detention of a person in the situation in which the petitioner is. No Magistrate has an absolute right to detain any person at the place of his choice or even any other place unless it can be justified by some law and procedure. The relevant portion of the aforesaid judgement is reproduced hereinbelow:- 65.	All the three questions raised above can be considered together conveniently. In the first set of judgements in most of the cases reliance has been placed upon the judgments in Smt. Kalyani Chowdhary v. State of U.P and Seema Devi @ Simran Kaur v. State of H.P. wherein it has been held that no person can be kept in Protective Home, unless required to be kept, either in pursuance to the suppression of Immoral Traffic in Women and Girls Act or some other Act for protection in such a Home. The Court pointed out that where the Magistrate's order mentions any provision of law under which he has passed such a direction, the order directing the girl to be kept in the protective home suffers from inherent lack of jurisdiction. Her custody in the protective home cannot, therefore, be held to be a legal custody. The Court said that the question of minority is irrelevant as even a minor cannot be detained against her will or at the will of her father in a protective home and the question of giving the girl in the custody of the father also did not arise in that case as the father was himself instrumental in getting the girl sent to the protective home through the aid of the police. It is thus clear that in Smt. Kalyani Chowdhary v. State of U.P the Division Bench has clearly proceeded to observe that the Magistrate's order mentioned no provision of law under which he has passed such a direction. The order directing the girl to be kept in protective home suffers from inherent lack of jurisdiction, whereas in the present matter we are dealing with the matters under the J.J. Act . 66.	In Independent Thought. v. Union of India36 the Apex Court after taking a conspectus of the provisions contained in the Constitution of India, the Indian Penal Code, the Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 201237 and the J. J. Act, 2015, held as follows: 67. In most of the cases, wherein it has been held that the habeas corpus writ petition is maintainable, the Division Benches placed reliance on the judgement of Jaya Mala vs. State of Jammu and Kashmir (supra). The judgement of Jaya Mala was distinguished by the Full Bench of Patna High Court in Shikha Kumari vs. State of Bihar (supra) in paragraphs 86 and 87. 68.	If we look at the relevant Sections of the J.J. Act , the object of the J.J. Act is pro-child legislation. The J.J. Act itself provides all remedial measures of rehabilitation and care to a child who is in need of care and protection. We attach equal importance to other Sections of the J.J. Act . They are emphatic, and in case the petitioner is aggrieved, and the corpus is sent to the shelter home arbitrarily, then the said situation may also be looked into and examined in the regular appeal or revision. Section 37 of J.J. Act clearly provides that the Committee on being satisfied through the inquiry that the child before the Committee is a child in need of care and protection, may, on consideration of Social Investigation Report submitted by the Child Welfare Officer and taking into account the child's wishes in case the child is sufficiently mature to take a view, pass one or more of the following orders. The framers have also consciously taken due care of child's wishes in case the child is sufficiently mature to take a view. It is the paramount responsibility of the Committee to take all necessary measures for taking into account the child's wishes after making due enquiry, which contemplates under Section 36 of J.J. Act and take final decision. 69.	Therefore, in such situation it cannot be presumed that in case the corpus is in Women Protection Home pursuant to an order passed by the Child Welfare Committee, which is neither without jurisdiction nor illegal or perverse, keeping in mind the provisions of the J.J. Act , the detention of the corpus cannot be said to be illegal and in case the petitioner is aggrieved by the order of the Child Welfare Committee, or the Magistrate, the petitioner is at liberty to take recourse of remedy of an appeal or revision provided under Sections 101 and 102 of the J.J. Act. 70.	In afore-mentioned matters the Court clearly proceeded to observe that no person can be kept in a Protective Home unless she is required to be kept there either in pursuance of Immoral Traffic in Women & Girls Protection Act or under some other law permitting her detention in such a home. No such situation contemplates under the J.J. Act and therefore, it cannot be said that the Magistrate or by the Committee does not inher the power. The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 200038 was initially enacted in the year 2000 to provide for protection of children. The Act was amended in the years 2006 and 2011. However, several issues, such as increasing incidents of abuse of children in institutions, inadequate facilities, quality of care and rehabilitation measures in Homes, delays in adoption due to faulty and incomplete processing, lack of clarity regarding roles, responsibilities and accountability of institutions, sale of children for adoption purposes etc. had cropped up in recent times. Such numerous change was required in the Act of 2000 to address the above mentioned issues. Such situation impelled the legislature to re-enact a comprehensive legislation. The J.J. Act ensures proper care, protection, development, treatment and social re-integration of children in difficult circumstance by adopting a child-friendly approach keeping in view the best interest of the child. It had also prompted the legislature to make drastic changes in the Act of 2000 to tackle child offenders in the age group and re-enact a comprehensive legislation inter alia to provide for general principles of care and protection of children, procedures in case of children in need of care and protection and children in conflict with law, rehabilitation and social re-integration measures for such children, adoption or orphan, abandoned and surrendered children, and offences committed against children. 71.	Analysing the orders passed by this Court as well as Jharkhand High Court, Madhya Pradesh High Court and Patna High Court, it can be safely concluded that the writ of Habeas Corpus is not maintainable against the judicial order or an order passed by the Child Welfare Committee under the J.J. Act . 72.	It is also apparent from perusal of the documents available on record and the statement of the petitioner corpus/victim recorded under Section 164 Cr.P.C. That the petitioner corpus refused to go with her mother and insisted that she may be sent alongwith her friend, first petitioner. As per High School Marksheet, her date of birth is 05.02.2003 and on the said date, she was 17 years, one month and eight days' old. Consequently, the Child Welfare Committee, by an order dated 16.3.2020, directed the petitioner corpus to be placed in Women Protection Home, upon finding her to be minor. Once the petitioner corpus is found as child, as defined in Section 2 (12) of J.J. Act, and allegedly a victim of crime in Case No.64/2000, detailed above, she would fall in the category of child in need of care and protection in view of clause (iii), (viii) and (xii) of sub-section (14) of Section 2 of J.J. Act. Once the order passed by the Committee placing the petitioner corpus in protection home would be within its power conferred by Section 37 of the J.J. Act then it cannot be presumed that the said order is without jurisdiction, illegal or perverse, keeping in mind the provisions of the J.J. Act and the detention of the corpus cannot be said to be illegal. 73.	In that view of the matter, it was not a case of illegal detention but the petitioner corpus was in Children Home (Girl) Saharanpur by virtue of an order passed by Jurisdictional Magistrate.	Even if there is lack of following due procedure under the Act and Rules by the Magistrate or by the Committee that can be agitated by the petitioner under the provisions of appeal/revision, as referred to above by taking out separate proceedings. 74. In Janardan Reddy & Ors. vs. The State of Hyderabad & Ors. (supra) the Apex Court, while considering the maintainability of the writ petition, has observed that there is a basic difference between want of jurisdiction and illegal or irregular exercise of jurisdiction, Mere non-compliance of the rules of procedure cannot be made a ground for granting a writ under Article 32 of the Constitution. The defect, if any, can, according to the procedure established by law, be corrected only by a court of appeal or revision, and if the appellate court, which was competent to deal with the matter, has to consider the matter and pronounce its judgment, it cannot be reopened in a proceeding under Article 32 of the Constitution. The Apex Court further observed that the writ of habeas corpus could not be granted as a return that the person is in detention in execution of a sentence on indictment of a criminal charge, is sufficient answer to an application for such a writ. 75. Section 27 of the J.J. Act deals with Child Welfare Committee, wherein sub-section (8) provides that the District Magistrate shall conduct a quarterly review of the functioning of the Committee. Sub-section (9) also provides that the Committee shall function as a Bench and shall have the powers conferred by the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973 on a Metropolitan Magistrate or, as the case may be, a Judicial Magistrate of First Class. Section 29 provides the powers of Committee, which shall have the authority to dispose of cases for the care, protection, treatment, development and rehabilitation of children in need of care and protection, as well as to provide for their basic needs and protection. Sub-section (2) of Section 29 of the J.J. Act provides that where a Committee has been constituted for any area, such Committee shall, notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, but save as otherwise expressly provided in this Act, have the power to deal exclusively with all proceedings under this Act relating to children in need of care and protection. Section 30 of the J.J. Act deals with the functions and responsibilities of Committee, which include taking cognizance of and receiving the children produced before it. Most importantly Section 30 (ii) of the J.J. Act provides for conducting inquiry on all issues relating to and affecting the safety and well-being on the children under the Act. Sub-section (iii) of Section 30 of the J.J. Act provides for directing the Child Welfare Officers or Probation Officers or District Child Protection Unit or non-governmental organisations to conduct social investigation and submit a report before the Committee. Section 30 (vi) of the J.J. Act provides for ensuring care, protection, appropriate rehabilitation or restoration of children in need of care and protection, based on the child's individual care plan and passing necessary directions to parents or guardians or fit persons or children's homes or fit facility in this regard. 76. 	Full fledged mechanism is also provided in sub-section (viii) of Section 30 of J.J. Act for conducting an inspection visits per month of residential facilities for children in need of care and protection and recommending action for improvement in quality of services to the District Child Protection Unit and the State Government. Sub-section (1) of Section 37 of the J.J. Act, which deals with orders passed regarding a child in need of care and protection, provides that the Committee on being satisfied through the inquiry that the child before the Committee is a child in need of care and protection, may, on consideration of Social Investigation Report submitted by Child Welfare Officer and taking into account the child's wishes in case the child is sufficiently mature to take a view, pass one or more of the following orders, namely (a) declaration that a child is in need of care and protection; (b) restoration of the child to parents or guardian or family with or without supervision of Child Welfare Officer or designated social worker; (c) placement of the child in Children's Home or fit facility or Specialised Adoption Agency for the purpose of adoption for long term or temporary care, keeping in mind the capacity of the institution for housing such children, either after reaching the conclusion that the family of the child cannot be traced or even if traced, restoration of the child to the family is not in the best interest of the child; (d) placement of the child with fit person for long term or temporary care; (e) foster care orders under section 44 ; (f) sponsorship orders under section 45 ; (g) directions to persons or institutions or facilities in whose care the child is placed, regarding care, protection and rehabilitation of the child, including directions relating to immediate shelter and services such as medical attention, psychiatric and psychological support including need-based counselling, occupational therapy or behaviour modification therapy, skill training, legal aid, educational services, and other developmental activities, as required, as well as follow-up and coordination with the District Child Protection Unit or State Government and other agencies and (h) declaration that the child is legally free for adoption under Section 38 . 77.	Once corpus is minor and the girl had refused to go with her parents, then in such situation arrangement has to be made. Her interest is paramount and before proceeding to pass order for custody of the minor, the welfare of the minor has to be kept in mind. The wish of minor and the wish/desire of girl can always be considered by the Magistrate concerned/Committee and as per her wishes/desire further follow up action be taken in accordance with law under the J.J. Act . 78. 	Thus, it is evident that a writ of habeas corpus would not be mintainable, if the detention in custody is pursuant to judicial orders passed by a Judicial Magistrate or a court of competent jurisdiction or by the Child Welfare Committee. Suffice to indicate that an illegal or irregular exercise of jurisdiction by the Magistrate passing an order of remand or by the Child Welfare Committee under J.J. Act cannot be treated as an illegal detention. Such an order can be cured by way of challenging the legality, validity and correctness of the order by filing an appropriate proceeding before the competent appellate or revisional forum under the statutory provisions of law but cannot be reviewed in a petition seeking writ of habeas corpus. 79.	We accordingly come on our conclusions in respect of question nos.1, 2 and 3 for determination as follows:- Answer: Under the J.J. Act , the welfare and safety of child in need of care and protection is the legal responsibility of the Board/Child Welfare Committee and the Magistrate/Committee must give credence to her wishes. As per Section 37 of the J.J. Act the Committee, on being satisfied through the inquiry that the child before the Committee is a child in need of care and protection, may, on consideration of Social Investigation Report submitted by Child Welfare Officer and taking into account the child's wishes in case the child is sufficiently mature to take a view, pass one or more of the orders mentioned in Section 37 (1) (a) to (h). 80. Thus, all the three issues referred for determination are answered, accordingly. 81.	Let the matter be placed before the appropriate Bench for orders. 82.	Before parting with the matter we place on record our appreciation for the active assistance rendered by learned Senior Advocate Shri Shagir Ahmad and the learned Addl. Advocate General. Order Date :- 08.03.2021 
 
RKP 
 

 
 (Siddhartha Varma,J.) (Mahesh Chandra Tripathi,J.) (Sanjay Yadav,J.)