The petitioner is Additional Director General of Police, C.I.D., West

Bengal. He has approached this Court with a prayer to invoke the inherent

power as envisaged in Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure to 2 have the proceedings of Case No.RC-04(S)2014 under Section

120B / 420 / 406 / 409 of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 416 of the Prize

Chits and Money Circulation Scheme (Banning) Act, 1978, pending before

the Court of Learned Judge Special Court, C.B.I., Barasat, North 24

Parganas, quashed so far he is concerned. (Qua Petitioner). The factual matrix therefore, would thus be relevant in the matter of

assessment of the situation as to whether the relief/reliefs sought for by the

petitioner is/are available under the provisions contained in Section 482 of

the Code of Criminal Procedure. In Writ Petition (C)No.401 of 2013 with No.402 of 2013 and T.P.(C)

No.445 of 2014 on 09.05.2014, the Apex Court directed the transfer of all

cases registered in different police stations of the State against Sarada

Group of Companies including Crime No.102 registered in Bidhannagar

Police Station, Kolkata (North) on 06.05.2013 for the offences punishable

under Section 406 / 409 / 120B I.P.C. and all cases in which the

investigation is yet to be completed, registered against any other company

up to the date of the order of Apex Court, from the State Police Agency to

the Central Bureau Of Investigation (C.B.I.). In the said order the Hon'ble Apex Court made it clear that C.B.I.

shall be free to conduct further investigation in terms of Section

173(8) Cr.P.C in relation to any cases where a charge-sheet has already 3 been presented before the jurisdictional Court against the companies

involved in any chit fund scam. In the said judgment the Hon'ble Supreme Court has specifically

mentioned that transfer of investigation to the Central Bureau of

Investigation (C.B.I.) in terms of the order shall not, however, affect the

proceedings pending before the commission of enquiry established by the

State Government or any action that is legally permissible for recovery of

the amount for payment to the depositors. At the same time the Apex

Court has also given direction to the State Police Agencies to provide the

fullest co-operation to C.B.I. including assistance in terms of men and

material to enable the latter to conduct and complete the investigation

expeditiously. The reasons for transferring the investigation from State Police

Agencies to Central Bureau of Investigation would appear in paragraph 35

of the said judgment as under:- It has been stated by the petitioner in his application that in the year

2013, several cases were registered across the State of West Bengal

including Bidhannagar Commissionerate. The State of West Bengal

constituted a four member Judicial Inquiry Commission, headed by Justice

(Retd.) Shyamal Sen, to prove the scam. On 26.04.2013, the State of West Bengal constituted a Special

Investigation Team (S.I.T.) to investigate into the companies. That Special

Investigation Team was headed by the Director General of Police and the

Inspector General of Police, West Bengal, who was in charge of overall

Superintendence of the cases. During the course of the investigation by

Special Investigation Team, the Additional Director General (A.D.G.), C.I.D.

was to assist the Director General of Police and the Inspector General of

Police, West Bengal and for this reason all the communications were made

by the Office of the A.D.G., C.I.D. with the various units and other

investigating agencies including the various District Superintendent of

Police in the State. It has been submitted by the petitioner that the State

Police Authorities have rendered all kinds of assistance to the Central

Bureau of Investigation in compliance with the directions of the Hon'ble

Supreme Court dated 09.05.2014. It is the specific contention of the petitioner that the State Police had

handed over all the investigations/documents/records to the Central

Bureau of Investigation in the year 2014, in compliance with the directions

of Hon'ble Apex Court dated 09.05.2014. Petitioner has contended that he

is not named in any of the F.I.R. or in any charge-sheet filed by either of the

Police or by the Central Bureau of Investigation. Petitioner has stated that

he received three notices in total till 03.02.2019 under Section 160 of the

Code of Criminal Procedure and he responded to the said three notices

dated 18.10.2017, 23.10.2017 and 08.12.2018. The Central Bureau of Investigation moved before the Supreme Court

vide M.A.No.1720 of 2017, in Writ Petition(C)No.401 of 2013, citing Hostile

Environment in the State and alleging non-cooperation by the officials of

the State. That application was contested by the State of West Bengal.

After hearing both sides, the Hon'ble Court was pleased to direct both the

investigating agencies to work in tandem. In his application the petitioner has further contended that on

03.02.2019, a large number of persons claiming to be from Central Bureau

of Investigation arrived at the residence of petitioner. Such persons were

informed that the petitioner was in his Office at Lalbazar, but they insisted

on entering his residence. When those persons were asked to show search

warrant, they failed to show the same. The petitioner has stated that the

C.B.I. on 03.02.2019 visited the residence of the petitioner with mala fide

intention to harass, humiliate and tarnish his reputation. The Central Bureau of Investigation thereafter filed a contempt

petition(C)No.166 of 2019 against the Chief Secretary, Director General of

Police and the present petitioner alleging contempt of orders dated

09.05.2014, 15.12.2015, 05.12.2017 and 16.07.2018 passed by the

Supreme Court in Writ Petition(C) No.401 of 2013 and ancillary

proceedings therein. The Central Bureau of Investigation also preferred an

application seeking directions, being M.A.No.302 of 2019, in W.P.(C)No.401

of 2013. Vide order dated 05.02.2019, the Hon'ble Supreme Court granted 7 protection to the petitioner against coercive steps and the petitioner was

also directed to appear for interrogation at Shillong. The petitioner

appeared at Shillong for interrogation by the Central Bureau of

Investigation and he was subjected to questioning for about 39 hours 45

minutes from 09.02.2019 to 13.02.2019. Petitioner has claimed that he

responded to each query truthfully and to his best knowledge, despite the

questions being repetitive in nature. The entire interrogation was video-

graphed. The Central Bureau of Investigation moved an application being

I.A.No.58327 of 2019, in contempt petition(C)No.166 of 2019 seeking

vacation of interim order dated 05.02.2019 and custodial interrogation of

the petitioner. The Hon'ble Supreme Court on 17.05.2019 withdrew the

protection granted to the petitioner on 05.02.2019 with direction that the

said interim order dated 05.02.2019 would continue for a period of seven

days from the date of pronouncement of this order to enable the petitioner

to approach competent Court for relief, if so advised. The Investigating Officer of the Central Bureau of Investigation once

again issued a notice under Section 160 of the Code of Criminal Procedure

dated 26.05.2019, directing the petitioner to appear before Investigating

Officer on 27.05.2019 at 12:00 hours and the petitioner has stated that at

the relevant point of time he was on sanctioned leave and sent a reply

seeking time. Petitioner has stated that he came to know from media

reports that even before issuance of notice under Section 160 of the Code of

Criminal Procedure, a look out circular has been issued against the

petitioner to prevent any foreign travel by him. It has been categorically contended by the petitioner that the present

opposite party, the Central Bureau of Investigation with mala fide and for

collateral purposes issued notices under Section 160 of the Code of

Criminal Procedure for interrogation in connection with impugned

proceedings though he was thoroughly interrogated by the Investigating

Agency. Petitioner has apprehended that he would be taken under custody

on the flimsy ground of necessity for custodial interrogation. It is also the

contention of the petitioner that till date he has not been implicated as an

accused in connection with the impugned proceedings. It has also been

stated by the petitioner that he has been served notices under Section 160 of the Code of Criminal Procedure for interrogation to record his statement

under Section 161 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and there is no such

power of the Investigating Authority to interrogate a witness under custody.

Petitioner has alleged that continuance of the impugned proceedings is

vexatious, mala fide and has been initiated with an oblique motive to

harass and humiliate the petitioner. Petitioner has also stated that he had

acted in discharge of his official duties as Commissioner of Police,

Bidhannagar as well as members of Special Investigation Team and as such

he is covered under Protection under Section 45(2) of the Code of Criminal

Procedure. The factual score depicts that the opposite party/the Central Bureau

of Investigation while praying for recall of interim protection granted to the

petitioner Mr. Rajeev Kumar, submitted before the Hon'ble Supreme Court 9 vide application for appropriate directions dated 05.04.2019, that the

petitioner has not cooperated during the interrogation. He gave evasive

replies, tried to shift the blame or responsibility either on to his

subordinates or on his Superior Officers. He claimed his innocence about

his role in the larger criminal conspiracy in the investigation of the money

trail. He also claimed innocence with regards to giving clean chit to all

influential people stating that they never influenced the investigation. He

denied trying to shield some body and he did not provide any clues for

recovering the case property, involvement of the persons, place of

concealment of case properties, etc. In the said application the C.B.I. has

submitted before the Apex Court that in order to recover the material

evidence and to investigate into the acts of commission and omission on the

part of Bidhannagar Police Commissionerate and the SIT in causing

concealment or causing disappearance of evidence that was collected by

them during their investigation and to investigate into the larger conspiracy

aspect, the petitioner and other Police Officers are required for custodial

interrogation. From the order dated 17.05.2019 passed in connection with

M.A.No.302 of 2019 in W.P.(C)No.401 of 2013 and Anr. it appears that the

Hon'ble Court has been pleased to pass the following order:- On 30.05.2019, Vacation Bench of this Court passed an interim

order in connection with the present C.R.R. 1308 of 2019 for a period of

one month from the date of reopening of the Court or until further order,

whichever is earlier, the petitioner shall not be subjected to coercive

process or be arrested on certain conditions as mentioned in the said order. Learned Senior Counsel Mr. Milon Mukherjee appearing for the

petitioner has forcefully contended that the question of taking the petitioner 11 in custody for interrogation does not arise at all as opposite party issued

notices to the petitioner under the provision of Section 160 of the Code of

Criminal Procedure which is meant for the witnesses only. He has further

contended that there is no such provision in the Code of Criminal

Procedure to take a witness in custody for the purpose of interrogation. In

support of his contention Learned Counsel has invited the attention of the

Court to Article 21 of the Constitution of India and Sections 160 and 161 of

the Code. It has been vigorously submitted by the Learned Counsel that no

person shall be deprived of his life or personal liberty except according to

procedure established by law. Again he has contended that in view of

provision contained in Article 20(3) of the Constitution of India no accused

of any offence shall be compelled to be a witness against himself. It is the

specific contention of the Learned Counsel for the petitioner that the name

of the petitioner has not been mentioned in any of the First Information

Reports nor he has been charge-sheeted in connection with any case in

relation to chit fund scam. The petitioner is in a better position than an

accused. Learned Counsel has expressed the apprehension of the

petitioner that unless the petitioner is granted a protective order from the

Court against taking coercive step by the Investigating Officer then there is

every chance to take him custody by converting his status from a witness

into an accused. In that case, the petitioner would be deprived of his right

to approach before the Court for anticipatory bail. Learned Counsel for the petitioner has also submitted that SIT was

headed by D.G., West Bengal Police and he was assisted by A.D.G., C.I.D. 12 According to his contention the function of SIT was expanded and many

other Officers were co-opted as members of SIT. It is the specific

contention of the Learned Counsel for the petitioner that the petitioner has

been targeted and singled out. It has been argued by the Learned Counsel

for the petitioner that no police official of Jammu and Kashmir has been

examined by C.B.I., though the initial seizure and arrest was done by them.

He has also submitted that the opposite party C.B.I. is trying to cover up its

own laches and is selectively targeting him. He has also argued that no

new evidence or material or money trail or larger conspiracy unearthed by

C.B.I. till date despite passage of more than 5 years. Learned Senior Counsel appearing for the petitioner has submitted

that C.B.I. issued summons to the petitioner after more than three years of

taking over charge of investigation in May 2014. For the last five years, the

progress of investigation is not at all satisfactory. It has been also

contended by the Learned Counsel for the petitioner that Mr.Kumar wrote

several letters to Director of C.B.I. for joint discussion over the issues

regarding investigation between the State Police Officials and the C.B.I., but

C.B.I. did not response. It has been forcefully contended by the Learned

Advocate for the petitioner that West Bengal Police including SIT had

already handed over all the seized papers and articles to the C.B.I. as per

the direction of the Apex Court dated 09.05.2014. It has been specifically

contended on behalf of the petitioner that the mobile phones and laptop

were handed over to Shri Supriyo Sen and Smt.Debjani Mukherjee as per 13 the direction of the Learned Magistrate. In the name of interrogation C.B.I.,

intends to malign the petitioner and to tarnish his reputation. In support of his contention, the Learned Counsel has placed his

reliance on several decisions. The decisions so cited by him as under:- reported in (2012)3 SCC (Cri) 733, 9) Kishore Samrite Vs. State of U.P. reported in (2013)2 SCC 398, 10) Kiran Bedi Vs. Committee of Inquiry reported in (1989)1

 SCC 494, 14 11) Om Prakash Chautala Vs. Kanwar Bhan & Ors. reported in

 (2014)5 SCC 417, 12) Board of Trustees of the Port of Bombay -Vs-Dilip Kumar

 Raghavendranath Nadkarni & Ors. reported in (1983)1 SCC

 124, 13) District Registrar & Collector, Hyderabad & Anr. Vs.

 Canara Bank & Ors. reported in (2005)1 SCC 496, 14) State of W.B. & Ors. Vs. Swapan Kr. Guha & Ors. reported

 in AIR 1982 SC 949, 15) Suresh Nanda Vs. C.B.I. reported in (2008)3 SCC 674, 16) Pramod Suryabhan Pawar Vs. State of Maharashtra &

 Anr. reported in Criminal Appeal No.1165 of 2019 (@SLP

 (Cri)No.2712 of 2019), 17) A.R. Antulay Vs. R.S. Nayak & Anr. reported in (1988)2 SCC

 602, 18) Ratilal Bhanji Mithani Vs. Asst Controller of Customs,

 Bombay reported in (1967)3 SCR 926, 19) State of Haryana And Ors Vs. Bhajanlal reported in 1992

 Supp (1) SCC 335, 20) Pepsi Foods Ltd & Anr. Vs. Spl Judicial Magistrate & Ors. reported in (1998)5 SCC 749. On the other hand, Learned Counsel for the C.B.I. has invited the

attention of the Court to the entries in the case diary and contended that

from the very beginning the petitioner is avoiding interrogation and even 15 during interrogation at Shillong, he did not co-operate. He has submitted

that few days back, the petitioner was issued notice by C.B.I. to meet with

the Investigating Officer in connection with another case relating to chit

fund scam and though the interim order passed in connection with this

proceedings has been relaxed to enable the petitioner to meet with the

Investigating Officer, he avoided the interrogation on the ground that he

was busy with law and order after abolition of Article 370 of the

Constitution of India in Jammu and Kashmir. In each and every occasion,

whenever any notice was served on him, the petitioner sought for time on

the grounds of Durga Puja, Chhot Puja, etc. and afterwards he never

informed the C.B.I. regarding his availability to meet with the Investigating

Officer. Sometimes, he took up the matter with Director of C.B.I. or other

authorities of C.B.I. giving suggestion in respect of investigation. At the

end of August this year C.B.I. received eight trunks of documents from

State Police. Mr.Dastoor, Learned Counsel for the C.B.I. has submitted that the

claim of the petitioner that the State Police handed over all seized

documents to the C.B.I. in 2014 was totally false. C.B.I. was compelled to

write to the D.C.D.D. on 01.07.2016, 01.02.2017. On 05.07.2018

Inspector in charge of Electronic Complex Police Station wrote to C.B.I.

requesting them to hold inspection of the seized items and Investigating

Officer of the case produced seized items at C.B.I. Office at the CGO

Complex, Salt Lake on 29.05.2019, 30.05.2019 and 31.05.2019. Learned

Counsel has drawn the attention of the Court to seizure lists and submitted

that no laptop, C.P.U. were seized during investigation by the State Police. 16 He has forcefully argued that Mr. Kumar has adopted delaying tactics to

avoid interrogation. Mr. Dastoor, the Learned Senior Counsel appearing for the opposite

party, the Central Bureau of Investigation has countered the allegations

and aspersions made by the petitioner. He has stated that the allegation of

the petitioner that he has been singled out or targeted is baseless. He has

contended that in course of investigation they issued notices under Section

160 of the Code of Criminal Procedure to several witnesses including

persons who are superior in rank to the present petitioner. They were

examined by the C.B.I. and many of them also co-operated with

Investigating Agencies. He has also contended that C.B.I. was directed by

the Hon'ble Apex Court to find out the money trial and to investigate the

larger conspiracy. The petitioner was a member of the SIT formed by the

State Government for investigation of the chit fund scam. From the very

beginning he did not co-operate with the Investigating Officer and tried to

avoid the interrogation. Learned Counsel has tried to impress upon the

Court by drawing the attention of the Court to the replies given by the

petitioner in response to the notices issued to him by the C.B.I. C.B.I. is

investigating the case to find out the money trail under the direction of the

Hon'ble Apex Court. He has further contended that instead of co-operating

the C.B.I. the petitioner from the very beginning was avoiding the

interrogation on various flimsy grounds. It is the specific contention of the

C.B.I. that during interrogation at Shillong the petitioner did not co-operate

with the Investigating Agencies. The Learned Counsel for the C.B.I. has further submitted that the

constitutional provision as contained in Article 20(3) is applicable to an

accused and not to a witness. He has also stated that Article 21 of the

Constitution speaks about personal liberty and that liberty cannot be

curtailed without procedure established by law. He has contended that the

C.B.I. is investigating the case in accordance with law and interrogation is a

part of investigation. Learned Counsel for the opposite party, C.B.I. has challenged the

maintainability of the present application. He has contended that the relief

sought for by the petitioner is not tenable in law as the Court cannot pass

an order giving blanket protection to any person. He has urged that the

Investigating Officer can examine any person under Section 160 of the Code

of Criminal Procedure and such person may be an accused or a witness or

a suspect, and custodial interrogation is qualitatively more elicination-

oriented than questioning a suspect who is well ensconced with a protective

order. Learned Counsel for C.B.I. has cited the following decisions: reported in (1987)2 SCC 364, 2) M/s Central Wines, Hyderabad Vs. Special Commercial Tax

 Officer , M/s Artos Breweries Ltd. Vs. Commercial Tax Officer reported in (1987) 2 SCC 371, 3) State of Maharashtra Vs. Mohd. Rashid And Another reported

 in (2005) 7 SCC 56, 4) State Vs. Anil Sharma reported in (1997) 7 SCC 187, 18 5) State of Maharashtra Vs. Embee Corporation, Bombay reported in (1997) 7 SCC 190, 6) Balasaheb Alias Ramesh Laxman Deshmukh Vs. State of

 Maharashtra And Another reported in (2011) 1 SCC 364, 7) Election Commission of India Vs. Telangana Rastra Samithi

 and Another reported in (2011) 1 SCC 370, 8) Poolpandi And Others Vs. Superintendent, Central Excise reported in (1992) 3 SCC 259, 9) Union of India And Others Vs. Pratap Narain And Others . reported in (1992) 3 SCC 268, 10) Kamalanantha And Others Vs. State of T.N. reported in (2005)

 5 SCC 194,

 For proper appreciation of the contentions of the parties, I think it

would be better to have a look at Section 160 of the Code of Criminal

Procedure. This section empowers the Investigating Officer to examine persons

who are acquainted with the facts and circumstances of the case. While

discussing the applicability of Section 160 of the Code of Criminal

Procedure our Apex Court in State Vs. N.M.T. Joy Immaculate reported in

2004 SCC (Cr.) 1722 was pleased to observe as under: It has been alleged by the petitioner that he was thoroughly examined

by the C.B.I. at Shillong, over a period of 39 hours and 45 minutes from

09.02.2019 to 13.02.2019 and he responded to each query truthfully and

best of his knowledge, despite the questions being repetitive in nature. In this connection, Learned Senior Advocate Mr.Dastoor representing

the C.B.I. has contended that while interrogating the petitioner, the

Investigating Agency faced great inconvenience and was handicapped as

the petitioner was armed with a protective order. In support of his contention, Learned Counsel has cited the decision

in State REP. By the C.B.I. Vs. Anil Sharma reported in (1997)7 Supreme 20 Court Cases 187. Learned Counsel has laid emphasis on paragraph 6 of

the decision as cited above:- On the other hand, Learned Counsel for the petitioner has contended

that the C.B.I. is harassing the petitioner by calling him in the name of

interrogation and is trying to malign his dignity and reputation in violation

of his personal liberty as guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of

India. He has submitted that the decision referred to State REP. By the

C.B.I. Vs. Anil Sharma reported in (1997)7 Supreme Court Cases 187 by 21 the Learned Counsel for the C.B.I. has no manner of application to the facts

of the present case. He has contended that till date the petitioner has not

been arraigned as accused and the decision relates to the grant of

anticipatory bail to an accused. In support of his contention, Learned Counsel for the petitioner has

cited paragraph 1 of the decision of Om Prakash Chautala Vs. Kanwar

Bhan and Others reported in (2014)5 SCC 417 . In paragraph 1, our Apex

Court has observed as under: Mr. Dastoor, the Learned Counsel has contended that the decisions

cited by the petitioner are in connection with Article 21 and 20(3) of the

Constitution of India and relate to the right of an accused. He has

contended that repeated questioning of a person who is served notice under Section 160 of the Code of Criminal Procedure is part of the investigation

process and this cannot be considered as harassment or violation of his

personal liberty. He has also submitted that the protection under Article

20(3) of the Constitution does not cover a witness or a suspect as the

language used in Article 20(3) only referred to an accused. In support of his submission, he has cited a decision in Poolpandi

and Others Vs. Superintendent, Central Excise and Others reported in

(1992)3 SCC 259. Paragraph 6 of the said judgment is as under:- The above conclusion was reached after consideration of several relevant

 decisions and deep deliberation on the issue, and cannot be ignored on the

 strength of certain observations in the judgment by three learned Judges

 in Nandini Satpathy case [(1978) 2 SCC 424 : 1978 SCC (Cri) 236 : (1978) 3

 SCR 608, 623, 624, 626-629, 645, 646] which is, as will be pointed out

 hereinafter, clearly distinguishable. Learned Counsel for C.B.I. has further contended that the C.B.I. is

conducting investigation as directed by the Apex Court considering the

magnitude of the alleged offence and to find out the money trail. It is the

duty of every person having knowledge or information regarding the offence

to assist the investigating agencies to find out the truth and that is why Section 160 of the Code of Criminal Procedure has been incorporated. Learned Counsel for the C.B.I. has challenged the maintainability of

the present petition. He has specifically contended that the present petition

is not at all maintainable in its present form and law. Learned Counsel has

contended that the petitioner at the time of filing the application prayed for

quashing of the proceedings in question and thereafter he moulded his

prayer. Now, he has prayed for a direction upon the C.B.I. that no coercive

step shall be taken against him by the opposite party without specific leave

of this Court on an application being made by the opposite party with due

notice to the petitioner showing the materials which necessitates so called 25 custodial interrogation of the petitioner. According to his submission the

relief sought for by the petitioner is not permissible in law as no Court shall

grant any blanket order in favour of any person. In support of his

submission he has referred to the decisions of Balasaheb alias Ramesh

Laxman Deshmukh Vs. State of Maharashtra and Another reported in

(2011)1 SCC 364. In paragraph 10 of the said judgment the Apex Court

was pleased to observe as under: "10. At first blush we were inclined to accept this submission but on a

 deeper scrutiny we find no substance in it and the decision relied on instead

 of supporting his case, goes against him. Protection under Article 20(3) of

 the Constitution does not extend to any kind of evidence but only to self-

 incriminating statements relating to the charges brought against an

 accused. In order to bring the testimony of an accused within the

 prohibition of constitutional protection, it must be of such character that by

 itself it tends to incriminate the accused. The appellant is not an accused in

 the police case and in fact a witness, whose statement was recorded under Section 161 of the Criminal Procedure Code, and, therefore, not entitled to

 a blanket protection. However, in case of trial in the police case, answer to

 certain question if tends to incriminate the appellant, he can seek protection

 at that stage. Whether answer to a question is incriminating or otherwise

 has to be considered at the time it is put." He has also cited the decision of State of Maharashtra Vs. Mohd.

Rashid and Another reported in (2005)7 SCC 56. In paragraph 7 of the

said judgment our Apex Court observed as under: Initially, the petitioner prayed for quashing of the proceedings of Case

No. RC-04(S)/2014 pending before the Learned Judge Special Court, C.B.I.,

Barasat, North 24 Parganas. Thereafter, the petitioner has moulded his

prayer by way of supplementary affidavit filed on 29.08.2019. Petitioner

has added in his prayer that no coercive steps against the petitioner shall

be taken by the opposite party without specific leave of High Court on an

application being made by the opposite party with due notice to the

petitioner showing the materials which necessitates so called custodial

interrogation of the petitioner. Both the Learned Senior Advocates appearing for the parties took

much pain and advanced their eloquent arguments. They have cited a

series of decisions. In addition to this, written notes of argument has been

filed on behalf of the petitioner. I, after carefully examining the submissions and counter submissions

advanced by the Learned Counsel for the parties both on the legal and 27 factual aspects and after scrupulously examining the arguments submitted

by the parties, would like to deal with those contentions seriatim. The petitioner was one of the members of the SIT as it appears from

West Bengal Police gazette notification dated 26.04.2013. At the relevant

point of time he was Commissioner of Police, Bidhannagar

Commissionerate. The said SIT conducted the investigation up to

09.05.2014. The very object of Section 160 of the Code of Criminal Procedure is to

enable the Investigating Officer to collect information from whomsoever, is

found acquainted with the facts of the case in relation to which the

investigation is carried out. In the instant case, the Learned Counsel appearing for the petitioner

has taken the plea that the petitioner has been targeted and singled out.

Admittedly, the petitioner was one of the members of the Special

Investigation Team formed by the State Government to investigate chit fund

scam. From the case diary it appears that other Officers who were the

members of SIT and who are superior in rank to the petitioner attended

and interrogated in response to the notices issued under Section 160 of the

Code of Criminal Procedure. The allegation of the petitioner that he has

been singled out and targeted cannot be accepted at this stage. 28 A conjoint reading of Section 160 and 161 of the Code of Criminal

Procedure would reveal that the Police Officer making an investigation has

the authority to examine any person who is supposed to be acquainted with

the facts and circumstances of the case. When such person is examined by

the Investigating Officer that person shall be bound to answer truly all

questions relating to such case put to him by such Officer. Exception is

that the person who is examined by the Investigating Officer is not bound

to answer the questions which could expose him to a criminal charge or to

a penalty or forfeiture. In Selvi and Others Vs. State of Karnataka reported in AIR 2010 SC 1974 our Apex Court held that the 'right against

self-incrimination' protect persons who have been formally accused as well

as who are examined as suspects in criminal case. It also extends to cover

witnesses who apprehend that their answers would expose them to criminal

charges in the ongoing investigation or even in cases other than the one

being investigation. It has been argued on behalf of the petitioner that the petitioner has

not been served any notice under Section 41A of the Code of Criminal

Procedure. The object of introduction of Section 41A, is so that arrest of accused

for cognizable offences for which maximum sentence is 7 (Seven) years, is

not made in routine manner and restrictions imposed under Section

41(1)(b) to be followed prior to making such arrest. It is compulsory for the

police under Section 41(1) to record reasons for making arrest as well as

reasons for not making such arrest. Where arrest is not made under 29 Section 41(1), Police Officer compulsorily has to issue notice of appearance

under Section 41A to the alleged accused. Unwillingness of alleged accused

to whom notice under Section 41A is issued to identify himself, could be

ground for arrest. In this connection, it would not be out of place to mention that the

impugned criminal proceedings are under Sections 120B / 420 / 406 / 409 of

the Indian Penal Code. The maximum punishment for an offence under Section 409 of the Indian Penal Code is life imprisonment. The question of

service of notice under Section 41A of the Code of Criminal Procedure is

redundant to the petitioner. In his petition, the petitioner has stated that

he has not been projected as an accused in any of the First Information

Reports lodged in connection with chit fund scam. The objective of

issuance of notice under Section 41A is quite different from the objective of

issuance of notice to a person under Section 160 of the Code of Criminal

Procedure, which is for the purpose of investigation. Admittedly, RC Case No.04(S)-2014 is being investigated by the

Central Bureau Investigation as per the direction of our Apex Court. The

Investigating Officer issued notice to the petitioner for his examination

under Section 160 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Section 160 of the

Code empowers the Investigating Officer to issue notice for securing the

attendance of persons who are acquainted with the facts and

circumstances of the case to find out the truth. Repeated questioning of

the person is part of investigation process. When the Investigating Officer 30 acts within his statutory limit then the question that the Investigating

Officer has acted beyond his authority does not arise. Service of notices

upon the petitioner requiring his attendance for the purpose of

interrogation by the Investigating Officer cannot be said to be mala fide. The Learned Counsel for the petitioner has tried to impress upon the

Court regarding the mode of investigation and claimed that the State Police

extended all sorts of cooperation to the C.B.I. for investigation as directed

by the Apex Court. From the judgment of the Apex Court dated 09.05.2014, it appears

that the Apex Court observed that the investigation conducted so far

revealed involvement of several political and other influential personalities

wielding considerable clout and influence. Petitioner apprehends that his personal liberty, right to reputation,

etc. may be denied by the Investigating Agencies. It is well settled that right

to fair trial and fair investigation cannot be so amplified as to permit

accused to choose manner of investigation. None is above the law and the

petitioner cannot seek special treatment. We all know that free and fair trial is sine qua non of Article 21 of

the Constitution, the apprehension of denial must be reasonable and not

imaginary. Reasonableness would obviously depend on the facts and

circumstances of a case and their evaluation by the Courts. 31 It is true that Court has duty to protect and promote citizens' right

and liberty guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India. This

does not mean that right is allowed to be used by a person to enjoy special

treatment to keep him away from interrogation by the Investigating Agency

under Section 160 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Right guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India does

not prohibit arrest on reasonable ground. It cannot be denied that arrest or

custody can cause harm to the reputation of a person. As such arrest or

custody of person should not be effected on the ground of mere suspicion,

but only after a reasonable satisfaction that such arrest or custody is

needed for the purpose of ensuring fair investigation. In the case at hand, the petitioner has failed to substantiate the

allegation that he is being called by the C.B.I. for interrogation to harass

him, and to injure his reputation. From the replies given by the petitioner in response to the notices

issued under Section 160 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, it appears

that, the petitioner took various pleas to avoid interrogation by the C.B.I.

The investigating agency is required to find out larger conspiracy. Without

cooperation and assistance from all corners, it would be difficult for the

investigating agency to find out the truth. It should be the duty of every

responsible Officer to assist the investigation. At the time of making his submission, Learned Counsel appearing for

the petitioner has given emphasis on Article 21 of the Constitution of India.

He has submitted that in absence of statutory provision, the petitioner

cannot be taken into custody. It is his specific contention that our law is

quite silent regarding conversion of an witness into an accused.

Interrogation of a witness or a suspect under Section 161 of the Code of

Criminal Procedure is the part of investigation. If during interrogation the

Investigating Officer is satisfied that the person concerned has committed a

cognizable offence, then the law permits the Investigating Officer to arrest

that person subject to the provisions as contained in the Code of Criminal

Procedure . Prior to interrogation or investigation, it cannot be said whether

the person who is served notice under Section 160 of the Code of Criminal

Procedure would come in the category of a witness or an accused. When a

witness becomes an accused, he is entitled to the rights available to the

accused. If commission of a cognizable offence by a person is detected in

course of interrogation then the law permits the Investigating Officer to

arrest that person without warrant and without leave of the Court. In this connection, I would like to mention that the Investigating

Officer has to justify the arrest of any person. Section 60A of the Criminal

Procedure Code may be mentioned here:- "60-A. Arrest to be made strictly according to the

 Code.- No arrest shall be made except in accordance with the

 provisions of this Code or any other law for the time being in

 force providing for arrest." In the decision of Hema Mishra Vs. State of Uttar

Pradesh and Others reported in (2014)4 SCC 453 in paragraph 29

here as under:- In the decision of Babubhai Vs. State of Gujarat and Others reported in (2010)12 SCC 254 our Apex court observed that fair

investigation is a part of Constitutional Right that is guaranteed under Articles 20 and 21 of the Constitution. So, investigation must be fair, 34 transparent and judicious and accordingly, the investigating agency cannot

be permitted to conduct the investigation in a tainted and biased manner. The issuance of notice to a witness requiring his attendance for

interrogation in connection with the case, cannot said to be grounds for the

claim, that the investigating agency is conducting the investigation in a

biased manner. Article 21 of the Constitution of India deals with the Right to Liberty.

According to this Article no person shall be deprived of his life and liberty

without due process of law. At the time of making his submission the

Learned Counsel appearing for the petitioner has given emphasis and

reiterated that the reputation of the petitioner has been tarnished. It is true that the right to life and personal liberty protected by Article

21 is not an absolute right but a qualified right. The right as contained in Article 21 does not confer any fundamental right to a person to refuse or

not to be interrogated by the Investigating Officer, when he is served notice

under Section 160 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Section 157(1) of the

Code of Criminal Procedure provides that a Police Officer shall investigate a

case relating to a cognizable offence and if necessary, take necessary

measures for the arrest of the offender. Argument has been advanced on behalf of the petitioner that the

petitioner's right to reputation has been infringed. This submission has no

basis at all considering the facts and situation as discussed above. From the submission and rival submission of the parties and the

materials placed on record it appears that the petitioner is not an accused

till today. The status of the petitioner in connection with criminal

proceedings pending before the Learned Special Judge has not yet been

settled. The quashing of an First Information Report or a criminal

proceedings, at the instance of a 3rd party is unknown to law. During the pendency of the application, the petitioner has moulded

his prayer and sought for a direction upon the opposite party that no

coercive step against him shall be taken by the opposite party without

specific leave of this Court on an application by the opposite party with due

notice to the petitioner showing the materials which necessitates so called

custodial interrogation of the petitioner. Learned Senior Counsel for the petitioner has drawn the attention of

the Court to Section 482 of the Code and submitted that in exercise of

inherent power Court can grant appropriate relief to the petitioner. Section 482 of the Code envisages three circumstances under which

the inherent jurisdiction may be exercised namely (i) to give effect to an 36 order under the Code; (ii) to prevent abuse of the process of the Court and (iii) to otherwise secure the ends of justice. The present application does not come within the purview of Section

482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and it cannot be said that

continuance of the Criminal Proceedings in respect of R.C-04(S) 2014

would be an abuse of the process of the Court. I have already observed that at present the petitioner has no locus

standi to pray for quashing of the criminal proceedings pending before the

Learned Court below. The prayer which has been moulded by the

petitioner by way of submitting supplementary affidavit cannot be granted

to him, since the investigation of a cognizable offence is a statutory right of

the police and the Court should not obstruct the track of investigation so

long as the investigating agencies are within their legal bounds. Confidentiality is always kept in the matter of criminal investigation

and it is not desirable to make available the entries in the case diary to the

person against whom the Investigating Agencies intend to take action.

Moreover, the nature of the relief sought for, is blanket protection of not

arresting the petitioner in connection with the impugned criminal

proceedings except after making an application before this Court by the

C.B.I. and disclosing the materials against him. This type of protection as

prayed for by the petitioner is not available under the law and cannot be 37 entertained. If the relief as prayed for is granted, then it would cause

unnecessary interference with the investigation. The application under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure

is devoid of merit and stands dismissed. Interim order stands vacated. Re: CRAN 2331 of 2019

 In view of the judgment passed in C.R.R.1308 of 2019, the C.R.A.N.

2331 of 2019 application becomes infructuous and stands dismissed. Urgent Photostat certified copy of this order, if applied for, shall be

supplied expeditiously after complying with all necessary legal formalities. (Madhumati Mitra, J.)