Through Mr. Vijay Aggarwal, Mr. Gurpreet Singh,
 Mr. Gaurav Kapoor, Advocates. Through Mr. Vijay Aggarwal, Mr. Gurpreet Singh,
 Mr. Gaurav Kapoor, Advocates. Mr. Pawan Behl, APP for the State

 Interveners/ Amicus Curiae
 Mr. Akshay Chandra, Mr. Gaurav Agrawal,
 Mr.HarshJaidka, Advocates 1. Whether reporters of Local papers may be allowed to Yes
 see the judgment? 2. To be referred to the reporter or not? Yes 3. Whether the judgment should be reported in the Yes
 Digest? MOOL CHAND GARG, J: However this could not be done as they could not agree to the price and
therefore the said agreement was rescinded by mutual consent vide agreement
dated 22.06.1996 as mentioned in clause 5 of the said Agreement. Vide this
agreement the Complainant and M/s Bhupendera Capital also agreed to
confine their rights of development only to the extent of FSI of 86,725 sq.ft. in
the land in question. It may be mentioned there that the aforesaid agreements
contained an Arbitration Clause for settling inter se disputes between the
parties. There was also a prohibition clause restraining the Company from
creating any third party interest in the Land to be developed. This agreement
was also signed by M/s Bhupendra Capital and Finance Ltd., who came into
the picture because of the agreement dated 09.11.1994 whereby the rights of
the Company to receive 50% of the sale proceeds of the flats were transferred to
them. Another agreement dated 28.06.96 also entered into between the parties,
witnessed another important development when the complainant also
transferred all its rights under the Agreement dated 27.4.1994 in favor of M/s
Ansal Housing Pvt. Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as "Ansals") for consideration by
accepting Rs.40 crores from them. 3. On 06.08.2004 a loan of Rs. 50 crores was taken by M/s Vijay
Infrastructure from Infrastructure Leasing and Financial Services Trust
Company Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as "IL&FS"). In that transaction the
Company/petitioner No.2 gave its guarantee by creating a mortgage of its entire
property measuring 67,785.50 sq. mtr., including 4848.1 sq. mtr. of land to be
developed under Agreement dated 27.4.94. It is the case of the petitioners that
neither the possession was transferred nor it was a sale but was a mere
hypothecation and later on the said mortgage has also been re-conveyed on
18.03.2006. 4. It is submitted that Complainant issued a legal notice on 24.05.05 to the
Company raising a dispute by invoking the Arbitration clause again to claim
that they were entitled to 1,20,000 sq ft FSI and also alleging that the
mortgage of the property was also a breach of agreement dated 27.04.1994 by
the Company. The matter went up to the Apex Court by way of Civil Appeal No.
1523/2007 arising out of SLP (C) No. 15656/2006 seeking invocation of
arbitration proceedings. [Crl.M.C.Nos.6122-23/2005 & Crl.M.C.Nos.6133-34/2005 Page 3 of 69] 5. It may be noticed here that earlier also the complainant raised disputes
with the Company alleging breach of the agreement dated 27.4.05 at many
forums from 2001, but without success. Some relevant facts also noticed by
the Hon‟ble Supreme Court in the aforesaid Civil Appeal for understanding the
controversy between the parties are reproduced hereunder: (ii) On 22.06.1996 the agreement dated 18.07.1994
 was cancelled by mutual consent as the parties were
 unable to agree on the cost of shifting the
 reservation which was agreed to in the agreement
 dated 18.07.1994. It was, therefore, agreed vide
 clause 5 that the UTILITY and the third party brought
 in, i.e., Bhupenda Capital and Finance Ltd., would
 have no right or claim in respect of the said property
 belonging to the petitioner no.2 and more particularly
 described in the First Schedule, save and except, the
 86725 sq.ft. FSI. There is no dispute that, that much
 of land remained with the UTILITY for development
 purposes. (iii) On 28.06.1996 the UTILITY entered into an
 Assignment Agreement (a tripartite agreement) with
 Ansals to build flats on the area with FSI of 86,725
 sq.ft. It is the contention of the petitioners that
 since then the complainant was left with no right
 whatsoever in the property as their own rights stood
 transferred to Ansals who thereafter even
 constructed the flats and have never raised any

[Crl.M.C.Nos.6122-23/2005 & Crl.M.C.Nos.6133-34/2005 Page 4 of 69]
 dispute with the complainant. (iv) Vide another agreement entered into between
 the parties, interest of the company to receive the
 sale proceeds in the flats to be developed was also
 transferred to M/s. Bhupendra Capital & Finance
 Ltd. on 09.11.1994. At that time sum of Rs. 21.60
 crores which was to be paid to the company by the
 said party, was paid to UTILITY for repayment on a
 loan granted by UTILITY to the company earlier. (v) On 04.5.2001 UTILITY filed a petition under Section 9 of the Arbitration Act seeking injunction
 and appointment of Receiver in respect of 2500
 sq.mt. of land. However, that was dismissed by the
 High Court on the ground that the area was covered
 under the agreement dated 18.07.1994 and it was
 cancelled by an agreement dated 22.06.1996 and,
 therefore, the application was not maintainable.
 The appeal against the order also failed vide order
 dated 03.06.2002. (vi) On 12.09.2001 UTILITY and one Santosh
 Singh Bagla who was the Promoter of the UTILITY
 company, filed application before the Appellate
 Authority for Industrial and Financial
 Reconstruction (AAIFR) contending therein that the
 promoters of the petitioner company were guilty of
 misfeasance and hence those acts were liable to be
 inquired into. It was secondly prayed that the
 Board of Directors of the petitioner no.2 company
 should be superseded. It was thirdly prayed that
 the injunction be issued restraining the petitioner
 no.2 from selling or transferring the lands. This
 application was dismissed by AAIFR leaving the
 parties to get the disputes adjudicated before an
 appropriate forum. It is to be noted here that a
 specific statement was made before the AAIFR by
 UTILITY herein that the sale of 1.20 lakh sq.ft. was
 not the subject matter of the application as the
 separate proceedings were being contemplated
 before the appropriate forum. [Crl.M.C.Nos.6122-23/2005 & Crl.M.C.Nos.6133-34/2005 Page 5 of 69] (vii) On 11.06.2002 UTILITY served a notice
 invoking the arbitration clause under agreements
 dated 27.04.1994 and 18.07.1994 on the ground
 that the petitioner had denied its liability to transfer
 the FSI beyond 86725 sq.ft. though it was bound to
 make available FSI of 1.20 sq.ft. to the UTILITY. (viii) UTILITY and Shri Santosh Singh Bagla filed a
 writ petition in the Delhi High Court on 26.07.2004
 whereby they challenged the order passed by the
 AAIFR dated 12.09.2001. Though UTILITYs had, in
 their appeal before AAIFR, claimed that the sale of
 1.20 lakh sq.ft. of FSI was not the subject matter of
 that application, it was all the same prayed before
 the High Court in the writ petition that the
 petitioner no.2 should be restrained from
 transferring the additional FSI left with them.
 Thereupon an undertaking was given by the counsel
 for the petitioner no.2 that the petitioner no.2 would
 not sell the property which was covered in the
 agreement dated 27.04.1994. (ix) On 06.08.2004 the petitioner no.2 agreed to
 mortgage the property covered by the agreement
 dated 27.04.1994 in favour of IL&FS for Rs. 50
 crores. (x) On 15.10.2004 the petitioner no.2 company
 was released from SICA as it became viable. parties to settle all disputes between them which
 naturally included the issue regarding the transfer of
 1.20 lakh sq.ft. of FSI. UTILITY under the same
 agreed to accept 1.20 crores out of which a payment
 of Rs. 10 lakhs was already made by the petitioner
 no.2 to the UTILITY. The petitioner no.2 also agreed
 to execute the necessary conveyance deed as per
 agreement dated 27.04.1994 and 22.06.1996
 thereby seeking to confine the claim of the UTILITY to
 86725 sq.ft. of FSI. (xii) This MOU was cancelled by the UTILITY on

[Crl.M.C.Nos.6122-23/2005 & Crl.M.C.Nos.6133-34/2005 Page 6 of 69]
 08.03.2005 and the UTILITY returned the amount of
 Rs. 10 lakhs. 6. During the pendency of the aforesaid Civil Appeal before the Apex Court
as referred to abvove and without waiting for its decision UTILITY also initiated
criminal proceedings against the petitioners in Delhi on 25.5.20055 itself soon
after issuing the 2nd notice invoking Arbitration Clause as stated above. It is for
that purpose they claims to have filed a complaint before Police Station
Defence Colony, New Delhi on 25.05.2005 for registration of an FIR against the
petitioners and others primarily on the following allegations:- 25.60 crores inasmuch as the dues of the bank turned out
 to be Rs. 23.68 crores and another sum of Rs. 1.96 crores
 had to be paid by the Complainant to Municipal
 Corporation of Greater Bombay for safeguarding their
 interest. ii) Assurance was given to the complainant at the time
 of entering into the agreement that the land in question
 will have FSI (Floor Space Index) to the tune of 1,20,000
 sq. ft. but it actually turned out to be 86,725 sq. ft. That
 the assurance about additional land of 2,500 Sq.ft was
 also not met. iii) The Company also mortgaged the subject land
 dishonestly and thereby caused wrongful loss to the
 complainant and wrongful gain to themselves. 7. According to the Complainant no action was taken on the said complaint
by the Police. The record shows that on 27.5.2005 itself, Utility had already
drafted a Complaint under Section 200 of the Code along with an application
under Section 156(3) of the Code to be filed before a Metropolitan Magistrate at
New Delhi without waiting for any action of the Police on their complaint dated
25.05.2005 and without approaching senior official of the Police in terms of the
provisions contained under Section 154(3) of the Code. 8. The said Complaint along with the application under Section 156(3) of
the Code was filed before the ACMM New Delhi. Shri S.K. Sharma, MM, New

[Crl.M.C.Nos.6122-23/2005 & Crl.M.C.Nos.6133-34/2005 Page 7 of 69]
 Delhi, to whom the complaint was marked allowed the application also under
Section 156(3) of the Code filed by the Complainant along with the Complaint
under Section 200 of the Code and passed the order dated 01.07.2005 as
noticed in the order of this Court dated 5.12.2005 (supra). The SHO Defence
Colony in compliance to those directions registered FIR bearing No. 436/2005
without holding any preliminary inquiry in the matter. It has been fairly
conceded by the Ld. Counsel for the Govt. of NCT of Delhi that in view of the
order dated 01.07.05 of the Magistrate they had no other option. The said FIR
has been annexed as Annexure P-1 with the present petition and reads as
under:- FSI was rightfully confirmed by the said company
 before AAIFR and its Assets Sale Committee. Shree
 Ram Mills and its directors have confirmed this fact
 before various Courts by way of their distinct
 affidavits and confirmations confirming the said facts.
 In fact, Late Sh. Abhay Kumar Kasliwal, ex-Chairman
 of the Company had also filed an affidavit dated
 24.09.1996 before AAIFR in response to specific order
 of AAIFR requiring Shree Ram Mills Ltd. to explain its
 position in respect of various properties belonging to
 the accused. In the said affidavit dated 24.09.1996,
 accused categorically stated on oath that 1,20,000 sq.
 ft. FSI has been sold to the complainant. Further the
 FSI that actually got available on said piece of land as
 per BMC rules turned out to be 82015 sq. ft. instead
 of 1,20,000 sq. ft. contemplated. Hence, because of
 the above various things, complainant‟s litigation
 started with the accused persons and is pending
 before Delhi High Court vide Civil Writ Petition 9572-
 73 of 2003. [Crl.M.C.Nos.6122-23/2005 & Crl.M.C.Nos.6133-34/2005 Page 9 of 69] 9. That however, recently to utter shock and
 surprise, the complainant came to know that these
 people have colluded with accused No.12 and 13, i.e.,
 M/s Infrastructure Leasing and Financial Services
 Ltd. and M/s. IL & FS Trust Company Ltd. Officials
 of M/s. IL & FS and also accused No.10 M/s. Vijay
 Infrasture Technologies p. Ltd. and accused No.9 Mr.
 Shirish Chunilal Dalal and accused No.11. Mr.
 Virendra Kumar Jain, Director have created charge
 on complainant‟s property. And then the complainant
 got search conducted with the Registrar of
 Companies, and came to know that accused No.13
 (M/s. IL & FS Ltd.) had extended financial assistance
 by way of Term Finance to the tune of Rs.500 million
 to accused NO.10 (Ms. Vijay Infrastructure
 Technologies P. Ltd.) for which accused No.1 (M/s.
 Shree Ram Mills Ltd.) offered its guarantee and
 created mortgage of its entire property including that
 of complainant portion through Indenture of Mortgage
 dated 06.08.2004 in favour of accused No.13 (IL & FS
 Trust Company Ltd.) a security Trustee for the lender.
 It can be seen clearly from the agreement enclosed
 and charge registered in documents enclosed that
 survey number of property in both are same. 10. That now it is very clear that the accused
 persons despite having no right to the aforesaid
 property, have mortgaged the same dishonestly and
 has caused wrongful loss to complainant and
 wrongful gain to themselves. As these facts are akin
 to illustration (i) to see 415 IPC and as the
 complainant have given Rs.25.64 crores and have
 incurred substantial amount on development thereof,
 hence the accused persons have committed offence
 u/s 420 IPC . Further as the accused persons have
 created these documents of mortgage/charge which
 they were not authorized to create/execute and hence
 the accused persons have made false documents
 without authority and hence committed cognizable
 offence of forgery punishable u/s 465 IPC. Further,
 this making of false documents is in respect of
 valuable security, i.e., land and hence cognizable
 offence u/s 467 IPC has been committed. Further,
 this forgery is for the purpose of cheating. Hence
 cognizable offence u/s 468 IPC has been committed
 and further these false documents have been used as
 genuine and hence offence u/s 471 IPC have been
 committed. are Directors and are senior officers of Shree Ram
 Mills Ltd. and have conspired to commit offence of
 forgery and even inter-acted with complainant for the
 same from time to time personally and phone over a
 period these people have conspired to commit above
 mentioned offences and hence have committed
 offences U/s 120-B IPC . Specific role of each of these

[Crl.M.C.Nos.6122-23/2005 & Crl.M.C.Nos.6133-34/2005 Page 10 of 69]
 accused persons shall be enumerated subsequently
 while submitting statements during investigation for
 the sake of brevity. Accused Nos. 9 to 13 are also
 beneficiaries of this cheating and have hand in glove
 with other accused and were well aware of
 complainants rights as already given in public notice
 of rights in the said property and the accused persons
 also have been in contact with us and were duly
 explained about our rights in the property and still
 the accused persons went ahead with aforesaid
 mortgage and creation of charge and hence all the
 aforesaid accused have had common intention to
 cause wrongful loss to the complainant and wrongful
 gain to the accused as contemplated in Sec.34 IPC. 9. The FIR is verbatim reproduction of the Complaint dated 1.7.2005 filed
under Section 200 of the Code. The list of documents filed along with the
complaint is as follows:- 10. It is submitted that the addresses of the accused persons who admittedly
are all resident of Bombay was not given either in the complaint or in the
application u/s 156(3) of the Code. The date of original agreement entered into
between the parties from where the alleged disputes arose, was also not
mentioned therein. Neither the copy of the agreement dated 27.04.1994 nor the
subsequent agreements dated 22.06.1996 and 28.6.1996 settling all the
disputes between them were filed along with the complaint. 11. Petitioners after coming to know of the registration of the FIR initially
filed the first petition under Section 397 of the Code registered as Crl.M.C.Nos.
6133-34/2005 with the following prayers:- 12. This Court on 29.11.2005 passed the following orders:- List before the appropriate Bench on 2nd
 December, 2005. 13. By way of abundant caution petitioners also filed a petition under
Section 482 of the Code for quashing the aforesaid FIR. The said petition had
been registered as Crl.M.C.Nos. 6122-23/2005. 14. Both the petitions thereafter have been listed together for hearing. In
Crl.M.C.Nos. 6122-23/2005 this Court passed the following interim order on
5.12.2005:- Present: AR of the complainant with
 counsel Sh. Vijay Aggarwal, Advocate. Fresh complaint received along with
 application U/s 156(3) Cr.P.C . Be checked
 and registered. Heard on the application
 U/s 156(3) Cr.P.C . Ld. Counsel for the
 complainant has relied upon a judgment of
 Allahabad High Court which is reported as
 "2008 CrI.L.J.2028". The perusal of the
 complaint reveals the commission of
 cognizable offence and the S.H.O. Police
 Station Defence Colony is directed to get the
 case registered and investigate the matter
 U/s 156(3) Cr.P.C . The compliance report
 be called for 05.10.2005. M.M./1.7.05. The above judgment has been cited before me by
 learned counsel for the respondent No.2-
 complainant to highlight the argument that no
 report need be made to police before filing a
 complaint or application under Section 156 (3)
 before the court. I have gone through the judgment cited in
 the impugned order. Briefly the facts of the cited
 case are that the accused persons armed with
 guns, rifles, lathis, etc., came hurling abuses and
 threats to the complainant and the members of his
 family and fired upon them. Some of the accused
 persons climbed the house of the complainant and
 started demolishing the roof and continued firings.
 Then they looted the house, jewellery and other
 valuables and set the house on fire. The
 complainant and the members of his family raised
 hue and cry, threw stones on the accused persons
 and also fired in self-defence. The villagers
 intervened and saved the complainant and the
 members of his family. The police did not even
 record the report which the complainant wanted to
 register. Rather under the influence of the
 accused party, the complainant was arrested and
 involved in false cases. When no action was taken
 on the oral report of the complainant, the
 complainant sent an application through Jailor to
 SSP, Agra as also to DIG, Agra on 22.1.1992, but

[Crl.M.C.Nos.6122-23/2005 & Crl.M.C.Nos.6133-34/2005 Page 13 of 69]
 still no action was taken. Thereafter, the
 complainant filed an application under Section
 156(3) Cr.P.C. on 4.2.1992 and on this the learned
 Judge directed investigation of the case. These introductory facts in the above
 judgment on the face of it show that in such a
 serious matter in which fire arms were used by
 both the sides and dacoity was committed, the
 police refused to record the FIR. Even the higher
 police officers failed to take notice of the complaint
 sent to them. Only thereafter he moved the court. Whereas in the present case on the face of
 it, it is a civil dispute, there may be criminal
 conspiracy underneath. Therefore, the above
 mentioned judgment cannot be said to be of
 universal applicant for every complainant in the
 court accompanied by an application under Section 156(3) of the Cr.P.C. Facts and
 circumstances vary from case to case. The above
 judgment is not attracted in the present case. Learned counsel for the petitioner has
 submitted that all transactions took place at
 Bombay. Arbitration proceedings are going on at
 Bombay and, therefore, there is a threshold
 challenge to the very jurisdiction of the courts at
 Delhi. Learned counsel for the respondent No.2
 has submitted that police officer cannot refuse to
 record FIR or investigation for want of territorial
 jurisdiction and has cited Satvinder Kaur Vs. State
 & Anr. Reported in AIR 1999 Supreme Court 3596
 that was a case of a dispute between husband and
 wife. In that case, marriage was performed at
 Delhi, the daughter was born at Delhi. Matrimonial home was in Patiala. Mother and the
 child were thrown out from the matrimonial home
 at Patiala in the clothes that they were wearing. A
 report was lodged at Patiala about torture and
 dowry demand. Thereafter, complainant came to
 Delhi and lived with her parents. Threats from her
 husband continued and then she lodged a report
 in crime against Women Cell at Delhi. Subsequently a case under Section 498-A / 406 IPC
 was registered whereupon the husband was
 arrested at Patiala and was brought to Delhi. The
 husband challenged the jurisdiction at Delhi. The High Court of Delhi opined "since the
 return of istridhan and account thereof is being
 sought in Delhi, the courts at Delhi will have the
 jurisdiction to try the case." Again, I may say that
 the facts and circumstances of each case vary.
 Husband-wife disputes stand on a different
 footing. In the present case the immovable property

[Crl.M.C.Nos.6122-23/2005 & Crl.M.C.Nos.6133-34/2005 Page 14 of 69]
 is situated at Mumbai. Litigation about the said
 property is going on in Mumbai. So Delhi police
 will have to go to Mumbai for investigation of this
 prima-facie civil transaction. Considering all the circumstances and the
 facts available on the record, I stay the operation
 of the impugned orders dated 1.7.2005 and
 5.10.2005 passed by the learned Metropolitan
 Magistrate, till further orders. Renotify on 20th March, 2006, for disposal

 Nothing said herein will tantamount to
 expression of opinion on the merits of the case. 15. Special Leave Petition filed by the second respondent/complainant before
the Hon‟ble Supreme Court against the aforesaid order stands dismissed. I am
conscious of the fact that the interim order does not decide the merits of the
case. Accordingly, the matter was heard on all aspects at length. The learned
counsel for the petitioners, complainant as also the counsel for the Govt. of
NCT of Delhi have made their submissions orally and have also given written
notes. 16. At this juncture, it would also be relevant to take note of the application
filed by the second respondent under Section 156(3) of the Code:- And vi) What were the conditions of the bank account
 of accused persons on the relevant dates? And vii) Whether any recovery of the cheated amount
 and possession of the remaining piece of land can be
 effected to at the instance of accused persons as per
 requirement of Sec.27 of Evidence Act 1872. 11. That though the complainant has deep
 faith in police officials but have no hope to get his
 grievance settled by police authorities the
 complainant prefers this complaint and pays before
 this Hon‟ble Court. Prayer
 It is, therefore, most respectfully prayed before this
 Hon‟ble Court to issue direction to the
 SHO/concerned police officer to register a case
 against the said accused and to investigate the matter
 further and to submit their final report in this regard. 17. It is submitted by the petitioners that the allegations made in the
Complaint read with the prayer made in the application u/s 156(3), reflects the
real purpose of filing of the complaint i.e to extract money and to get more more
land despite having settled all these issues with the Company vide agreement
dated 18.7.1994 and dated 22.6.96. They also wanted the police to recover
money paid in 1994 in 2005 after enjoying the fruits of the agreement and
having assigned their interest in the property to a third party for consideration. 18. The petitioners have prayed for quashing the Complaint and the Order
dated 1.7.2005 as also the FIR No. 436/05 registered at PS Defence Colony
New Delhi interalia on the following amongst other grounds:- Firstly, the mortgage has already been reconveyed

[Crl.M.C.Nos.6122-23/2005 & Crl.M.C.Nos.6133-34/2005 Page 17 of 69]
 on 18.03.2006. Secondly, the title of the land was always with
 SRM. The land had never been sold to Utility or to any
 other person. The Company is still the title holder of the
 land. Hence, it could create a mortgage of whatever
 rights it had remaining in the land. The very basis of the
 complaint is that the land in question is complainant‟s
 property, which is an incorrect and false statement. The
 very basis on which the present complaint had been filed
 is ex-facie non-existent. The complainant had
 deliberately not annexed the agreement between the
 parties, which agreements he annexed before the
 Supreme Court. Thirdly illustration (i) to Section 415 is not
 attracted at all. As per the said illustration, it is a
 precondition that there is a sale of land, which is not the
 case here. Besides, a grievance can be raised by the
 person in whose favour mortgage is created, which is
 again not the case here. Fourthly, the Complainant has instituted
 arbitration proceedings claiming damages on this very
 account on the ground that it is breach of agreement. (iii) After the interim order of 05.12.2005 was passed
 by this Court, Complainant also approached Bombay
 police and filed a complaint in Bombay. The complainant
 made similar allegations before the Bombay Police
 regarding creation of mortgage. The complainant has
 thus acted upon the interim order of the High court by
 approaching the Bombay Police, which has found that
 the matter is a civil dispute. This also shows that the
 jurisdiction was in Bombay and not in Delhi. (iv) No case of cheating under Section 420 is made
 out. The allegations in this regard are very mechanical
 and do not fulfill the requirements of Section 420. There
 is no pleadings also that there was any intention to cheat
 from the very beginning or that the 1994 agreement was
 fraudulently executed. The contract was executed in
 1994 and after that parties have even given effect to the
 agreement. Section 415, which also has no application,

[Crl.M.C.Nos.6122-23/2005 & Crl.M.C.Nos.6133-34/2005 Page 18 of 69]
 is not even a cognizable offence. (v) It is also not a case of committing any forgery
 because the Company had not created any false
 document of mortgage as defined under-Section 463. The
 mortgage deed was signed by the officers of SRM in their
 own capacity and in their own names. The said
 document was not executed with any intention to cheat.
 In any event, IL&FS, in whose favour the mortgage was
 created, has had no grievance. (vi) Even the role of each of the accused persons has
 not been specified and it is stated in the complaint that
 role would be enumerated subsequently. (vii) Utility has no locus to make the present
 complaint. By virtue of its agreement dated 28.06.1996,
 it has already assigned its entire right under the
 agreement dated 27.04.1994 to Ansals. Utility had thus
 no right remained with itself to lodge a complaint or to
 claim that any loss was caused to it. (viii) The Complainant has already instituted arbitration
 proceedings claiming damages against the Company. The
 matter is pending and presently cross-examination of the
 witnesses are on-going. On the same cause of action, the
 present criminal complaint has been filed clearly as an
 abuse of the process of law. The relationship between
 the parties arises out of contracts which were executed
 way back in the years 1994 and 1996. The Complainant
 has been approaching various forums to exercise
 pressure on the Company. (ix). That the Magistrate while passing the order dated
 01.07.2005 has not at all applied his mind to the facts of
 the case. Thus, the said order and the FIR registered consequent
 thereto again without holding any inquiry is liable to be
 quashed in exercise of the power vested in this Court
 under Section 482 of the Code. 19. On the other hand, the respondent No.2 /complainant has opposed the
petition by making following submissions:- When the Magistrate proceeds under Section 156(3) of
 the Code, he passes orders without taking cognizance
 of the offence and as such it is known as pre- cognizance stage. However, if the Magistrate wishes
 to proceed under Section 200 of the Code then he has
 to take cognizance of the matter. At pre cognizance
 stage by virtue of Section 156 (3) of the Code the
 Magistrate is fully entitled to direct the Police to
 investigate all the matter and for that purpose also to
 direct registration of the FIR once he is satisfied that
 the complaint made by the complainant discloses
 commission of cognizable offences. The procedure
 prescribed under Chapter XV is an alternative
 procedure which the Magistrate may or may not adopt
 at the stage when he is examining the complaint
 under Section 156(3) of the Code (iv) Even if it is presumed for the sake of
 arguments that Delhi Courts have no jurisdiction to
 try the matter or even to take cognizance of the

[Crl.M.C.Nos.6122-23/2005 & Crl.M.C.Nos.6133-34/2005 Page 20 of 69]
 allegation made in the complaint, this would not
 make the proceedings illegal. This may give a cause
 of action to the petitioner to file an appropriate
 petition for transfer of a case after the investigation is
 complete and a challan is filed by exercising powers
 available to the petitioner under Section 406 of the
 Code. It is also his case that since it has been
 specifically averred by the respondent that they also
 have an office in Delhi and the deliberation between
 the parties had also took place in Delhi, Delhi Courts
 had the jurisdiction to entertain the complaint lodged
 by the complainant. (v) It is submitted that once the FIR has already
 been registered, this Court should be slow to quash
 the proceedings by invoking jurisdiction under
 Section 482 of the Code till the investigation is
 complete and a report u/s 173 of the Code is filed. (vi) It is also submitted that adequate safeguards
 now stands provided for arrest and apprehension
 under the guidelines issued by this Court. 20. In rebuttal, the petitioners further urged that even though a Magistrate
can direct investigation in exercise of its powers under Section 156(3) of the
Code even when such application is part of the Complaint under Section 200 of
the Code, the manner in which the present case has proceeded makes it clear
that the impugned order under Section 156(3) of the Code and consequent
registration of FIR, are in utter violation of the laid down procedure besides
being actuated with mala fides. The order has been passed without application
of mind. The complainant has also suppressed material facts. Even otherwise
the disputes between the parties are of civil nature and are already before an
Arbitrator. 21. It has been submitted that in the facts of this case, the criminal
proceedings initiated by the complainant are abuse of the process of the Court.
The proceedings have been initiated purely to harass and intimidate the
petitioners and others. Such proceedings including the FIR are liable to be
quashed in exercise of the Jurisdiction vested in this court under Section 482
of the Code at this stage itself, also for the reason that the impugned order
dated 1.7.2005 is without application of mind and has been procured by

[Crl.M.C.Nos.6122-23/2005 & Crl.M.C.Nos.6133-34/2005 Page 21 of 69]
 suppression of material facts with ulterior motives. 22. The questions which arise for consideration are :- 23. Since the first question is one of public importance. I have heard all
concerned including the intervenors at length for the purpose of understanding
scope and ambit of the powers of a Magistrate under Section 156(3) of the Code
in the light of the provisions contained in Chapter XII and Chapter XV of the
Code. All parties have filed written submissions and have also cited case laws.
The issue has also been addressed by both sides even while addressing the
final arguments. 24. The petitioners have relied upon following judgments on the first

question:- 25. The 2nd respondent/complainant has referred to the following
 Judgments: 26. The interveners cited following additional Judgments :- 27. All these Judgments lays down as to how powers vested in the Court under
Chapter XII and Chapter XV are to be exercised. It has been consistently held
in all these cases that such power is to be exercised only after application of
mind. One can take judicial notice of the fact that provisions of law, especially
those relating to the procedure, often find misuse, generally enabled by an
erroneous interpretation of a statutory provision. Thus reference becomes
necessary to Chapter XII of the Code which starts from Section 154 of the Code
titled as "INFORMATION TO THE POLICE AND THEIR POWER TO
INVESTIGATE". [Crl.M.C.Nos.6122-23/2005 & Crl.M.C.Nos.6133-34/2005 Page 23 of 69] 28. Section 154 of the Code enables every person who wishes to disclose
information relating to commission of a cognizable offence to approach the
concerned SHO, who then is required to reduce such information in writing
and to register an FIR, if that information discloses commission of cognizable
offences as provided for under Section 154(1) of the Code. Sub-Section (2) of
the Code requires the SHO/ concerned official to supply a copy of the
information so recorded to the complainant forthwith free of cost. However, if
the SHO/ concerned officer is reluctant or refuses to register an FIR based
upon the information with the complainant the complainant may approach
senior officers in view of the provisions contained under Section 154(3) of the
Code as they also have similar powers in view of the Section 36 of the Code.
Once the FIR is registered, then the criminal law procedures are set into motion
which will mean investigation under Section 156 of the Code till filing of report
under Section 173 Of the Code The procedure for investigation has been
prescribed under Section 157 of the Code which enables the Investigating
Officer to proceed to the spot, to investigate the facts and circumstances of the
case and, if necessary, to take measures for discovery and even arrest of the
offender even without warrant. After investigation a report is filed in Court by
the concerned IO. That report can either be for recommending prosecution or
recommending closure. It is possible that in this process some degree of
harassment may be there for the person who is sought to be made as an
accused, which needs to be depricated. Use of this to cut short the civil
disputes, jealousies or for other undesirable purposes is growing fast as will be
noticed in the later part of the judgment. 29. The SHO/concerned Authority whenever approached by the complainant
is bound to receive it, though he is not bound to register it in case no offence
or wrong has taken place and a totally false complaint is filed. Holding a
preliminary enquiry to that extent is permissible even as per Punjab Police
Rules which are applicable even in Delhi. Rule 24.4 of the Punjab Police Rules
reads as under:- [Crl.M.C.Nos.6122-23/2005 & Crl.M.C.Nos.6133-34/2005 Page 24 of 69]
 (2) If the Inspector or other superior officer, on receipt
 of a copy of the station diary, is of opinion that the
 case should be investigated, he shall pass an order to
 that effect, and shall, in any case, send on the diary
 or an extract therefrom to the District Magistrate for
 his perusal and orders. (3) xxxxxx (i) Even if the information discloses commission of cognizable offences and
 the SHO refuses to register a case, police manual provides that the
 complainant can go upto the higher officer (SSP) i.e. to the officers as
 provided for under Section 36 Cr.P.C with a petition that the concerned
 SHO has not registered/refused to register the complaint. This is also the
 requirement of Section 154(3) of the Code, which reads as under:- (ii) Section 36 of the Code provides for the powers of the senior officers &
 reads as under:- Police officers superior in rank to an officer in charge
 of a police station may exercise the same powers,
 throughout the local area to wish they are appointed,
 as may be exercised by such officer within the limits
 of his station. (iii). It would be useful to also refer to Section 155 & Section 156 of the Code. 155. Information as to non-cognizable cases and
 investigation of such cases. (1) When information is given to an officer in charge of
 a police station of the commission within the limits of

[Crl.M.C.Nos.6122-23/2005 & Crl.M.C.Nos.6133-34/2005 Page 25 of 69]
 such station of a non-cognizable offence, he shall
 enter or cause to be entered the substance of the
 information in a book to be kept by such officer in
 such form as the State Government may prescribe in
 this behalf, and refer the informant to the Magistrate. (2) No Police officer shall investigate a non-cognizable
 case without the order of Magistrate having power to
 try such case or commit the case for trial. (3) Any police officer receiving such order may
 exercise the same powers in respect of the
 investigation (except the power to arrest without
 warrant) as an officer in charge of a police station
 may exercise in a cognizable case. (4) Where a case relates to two or more offences of
 which at least one is cognizable, the case shall be
 deemed to be a cognizable case, notwithstanding that
 the other offences are non-cognizable. 30. As per section 155 of the of the Code, even if information given is in
relation to commission of non-cognizable offence, it is required to be recorded
in a book to be kept by an officer who is in-charge of the Police Station and in
such a case investigation cannot be conducted by the Police without the
permission of the Court whereas in the case of a cognizable offence
investigation has to be conducted by the Police once it registers an FIR. 31. Section 156 of the Code reads as under:- 32. It is the contention of the petitioners that the powers vested in the Court
under Section 156(3) of the Code can be exercised by the Court only in two
situations, i.e.,

[Crl.M.C.Nos.6122-23/2005 & Crl.M.C.Nos.6133-34/2005 Page 26 of 69] (i) Where the Police despite having registered an
 FIR on the basis of information disclosing commission
 of cognizable offences is neither interested in
 investigating the crime nor the investigation is
 proceeding properly; Or (ii) When the SHO has refused to record the
 information given by the complainant in writing,
 and/or to register an FIR even though commission of
 cognizable offences are disclosed. The senior officers
 also despite being approached have failed to take
 appropriate action in the matter as provided for under
 Section 154(3) of the Code. Provided the Magistrate is satisfied that the
 information discloses commission of cognizable
 offences and, intervention of Police is necessary for
 digging out the evidence which is neither in the
 possession of complainant nor can be produced by
 him. It is also submitted that such power may also
 be exercised even if a request is made by way of an
 application filed along with a complaint under Section
 200 Cr.P.C but only if the Magistrate decides not to
 take cognizance on the basis of the Complaint under
 Section 190 of the Code for cogent reasons. 33. At this stage, I may also refer to the provisions of Chapter XV of the Code
which provide for an alternative mode to the Complainant aggrieved from the
inaction of the police in a case where the Complaint approaches the police with
information disclosing Commission of Cognizable offence for the purpose of
registration of an FIR. This starts from Section 200 and ends up to 210 of the
Code. These provisions enable the Magistrate to take cognizance of the offences
disclosed in the complaint in accordance with procedure prescribed in this
Chapter. The relevant provisions are reproduced hereunder for the sake of
reference:- A Magistrate taking cognizance of an offence on
 complaint shall examine upon oath the complainant
 and the witnesses present, if any, and the substance
 of such examination shall be reduced to writing and
 shall be signed by the complainant and the witnesses,
 and also by the Magistrate: If the complaint is made to a Magistrate who is not
 competent to take cognizance of the offence he shall, - (a) If the complaint is in writing, return it for
 presentation to the proper court with to that effect; (b) If the complaint is not in writing, direct the
 complainant to the proper court. 202. Postponement of issue of process. (1) Any Magistrate, on receipt of a complaint of an
 offence which he is authorised to take cognizance or
 which has been made over to him under section 192,
 may, if he thinks fit, postpone the issue of process
 against the accused, and either inquire into the case
 himself or direct an investigation to be made by, a
 police officer or by such other person as he thinks fit,
 for the purpose of deciding whether or not there is
 sufficient ground for proceeding: 203. Dismissal of complaint. If, after considering the statements on oath (if any) of
 the complainant and of the witnesses and the result
 of the inquiry or investigation (if any) under section
 202, the Magistrate is of opinion that there is no
 sufficient ground for proceeding, he shall dismiss the
 complaint, and in every such case he shall briefly
 record his reasons for so doing. 34. These provisions thus provide additional remedy to the complainant
aggrieved of inaction on the part of the Police by filing a Complaint under
Section 200 of the Code to seek redressal of his grievance. He can do so even
when he is not satisfied with the police action under Chapter XII by
approaching the senior officer under Section 154(3). However when Complaint
is filed under Section 200 of the Code the Magistrate has a duty to record
evidence led by the complainant and also to examine his witnesses and if
necessary even to call for a police report, and then to decide as to whether he
has to proceed under Chapter XV or has to dismiss the complaint. 35. However when the complainant without approaching senior police officers
approaches the Magistrate directly with a Complaint under Section 200 of the
Code, whether the Magistrate can still exercise powers under Section 156(3) of
the code instead of proceeding under Chapter XV is the real Controversy involved
in this matter. 36. At this stage it will be appropriate to take note of the observations made
by the Apex Court in few cases. In the case of All India Institute of Medical
Sciences Employees „ Union (Regd.) Through its President Vs. Union of India and
Ors. , (1996) 11 SCC 582 regarding the procedure to be followed if FIR is not
registered under Section 154 of the Code The relevant observations made by
the Court are reproduced hereunder:- [Crl.M.C.Nos.6122-23/2005 & Crl.M.C.Nos.6133-34/2005 Page 29 of 69]
 In respect of cognizable offence. Chapter XII of the
 Code prescribes the procedure for disclosing
 information to the police and their powers to
 investigate the cognizable offence. Sub-section (1) of
 Section 154 envisages that "every information
 relating to the commission of a cognizable offence, if
 given orally to an officer in charge of a police station,
 shall be reduced to writing by him or under his
 direction, and be read over to the informant: and
 every such information, whether given in writing or
 reduced to writing as aforesaid, shall be signed by
 the person giving it, and the substance thereof shall
 be entered in a book to be kept by such officer in
 such form as the State Government may prescribe
 in this behalf," On such information being received
 and reduced to writing, the officer in charge of the
 police station has been empowered under Section
 156 to investigate into the cognizable cases. The
 procedure for investigation has been given under
 Section 157 of the Code, the details of which are not
 material. After conducting the investigation
 prescribed in the manner envisaged in Chapter XII,
 charge--sheet shall be submitted to the court having
 jurisdiction to take cognizance of the offence.
 Section 173 envisages that: (1) Every investigation
 under this Chapter shall be completed without
 unnecessary delay. (2) As soon as it is completed,
 the officer in charge of the police station shall
 forward to a Magistrate empowered to take
 cognizance of the offence on a police report in the
 form prescribed by the State Government giving
 details therein. Upon receipt of the report, the Court
 under Section 190 is empowered to take cognizance
 of the offence. Under Section 173(8), the
 investigating officer has power to make further
 investigation into the offence. 4. When the information is laid with the police but
 no action in that behalf was taken, the complainant
 is given power under Section 190 read with Section
 200 of the Code to lay the complaint before the
 Magistrate having jurisdiction to take cognizance of
 the offence and the Magistrate is required to inquire
 into the complaint as provided in Chapter XV of the
 Code. In case the Magistrate after recording
 evidence finds a prima facie case, instead of issuing
 process to the accused, he is empowered to direct
 the concerned police to investigate into the offence
 under Chapter XII of the Code and to submit a
 report. If he finds that the complaint does not
 disclose any offence to take further action, he is
 empowered to dismiss the complaint under Section
 203 of the Code. In case he finds that the evidence
 recorded prima facie discloses commission of the
 offence, he is empowered to take cognizance of the
 offence and would issue process to the accused. [Crl.M.C.Nos.6122-23/2005 & Crl.M.C.Nos.6133-34/2005 Page 30 of 69] 5. In this case, the petitioner had not adopted either
 of the procedure provided under the Code. As a
 consequence, without availing of the above
 procedure, the petitioner is not entitled to approach
 the High Court by filing a writ petition and seeking a
 direction to conduct an investigation by the CBI which
 is not required to investigate into all or every offence. 37. This judgment was followed by the Apex Court in Aleque Padamsee and
Ors. Vs. Union of India and Ors. , (2007) 6 SCC 171, which is a three Judges‟
Bench judgment. The relevant observations made in the said judgment are as
under:- iterated in Gangadhar's case (supra) the remedy
 available is as set out above by filing a complaint
 before the Magistrate. Though it was faintly
 suggested that there was conflict in the views in All
 India Institute of Medical Sciences 's case (supra),
 Gangadhar's case ( supra), Hari Singh 's case ( supra),
 Minu Kumari 's case (supra) and Ramesh Kumari's
 case (supra), we find that the view expressed in Ramesh Kumari 's case (supra) related to the action
 required to be taken by the police when any
 cognizable offence is brought to its notice. In Ramesh Kumari 's case (supra) the basic issue did
 not relate to the methodology to be adopted which
 was expressly dealt with in All India Institute of
 Medical Sciences 's case (supra), Gangadhar's case
 ( supra), Minu Kumari 's case ( supra) and Hari
 Singh 's case (supra). The view expressed in Ramesh
 Kumari 's case (supra) was re- iterated in Lallan
 Chaudhary and Ors. v. State of Bihar
 AIR2006SC3376 . The course available, when the
 police does not carry out the statutory requirements
 under Section 154 was directly in issue in All India
 Institute of Medical Sciences 's case (supra),
 Gangadhar's case ( supra), Hari Singh 's case ( supra)
 and Minu Kumari 's case (supra). The correct position
 in law, therefore, is that the police officials ought to
 register the FIR whenever facts brought to its notice
 show that cognizable offence has been made out. In
 case the police officials fail to do so, the modalities to
 be adopted are as set out in Sections 190 read with
 Section 200 of the Code....... 8. The writ petitions are finally disposed of with the
 following directions: 38. The matter was also dealt with by the Apex Court in the case of Sakiri
Vasu Vs. State of Uttar Pradesh and Others , (2008) 2 SCC 409, relied upon by
both the sides. In this case, the Apex Court has discussed relevant provisions
of Chapter XII and Chapter XV of the Code and has made the following
observations:- instead of rushing to the High Court by way of a writ
 petition or a petition under Section 482 Cr.P.C.
 Moreover he has a further remedy of filing a criminal
 complaint under Section 200 Cr.P.C. Why then should
 writ petitions or Section 482 petitions be entertained
 when there are so many alternative remedies? 27. As we have already observed above, the
 Magistrate has very wide powers to direct registration
 of an FIR and to ensure a proper investigation, and for
 this purpose he can monitor the investigation to ensure
 that the investigation is done properly (though he
 cannot investigate himself). The High Court should
 discourage the practice of filing a writ petition or
 petition under Section 482 Cr.P.C. simply because a
 person has a grievance that his FIR has not been
 registered by the police, or after being registered,

[Crl.M.C.Nos.6122-23/2005 & Crl.M.C.Nos.6133-34/2005 Page 32 of 69]
 proper investigation has not been done by the police.
 For this grievance, the remedy lies under Sections 36
 and 154(3) before the concerned police officers, and if
 that is of no avail, under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C. before
 the Magistrate or by filing a criminal complaint under
 Section 200 Cr.P.C. and not by filing a writ petition or a
 petition under Section 482 Cr.P.C. 30. It may be further mentioned that in view of Section
 36 Cr.P.C. if a person is aggrieved that a proper
 investigation has not been made by the officer-in-
 charge of the concerned police station, such aggrieved
 person can approach the Superintendent of Police or
 other police officer superior in rank to the officer-in-
 charge of the police station and such superior officer
 can, if he so wishes, do the investigation vide CBI v.
 State of Rajasthan and Anr. 2001CriLJ968, R.P.
 Kapur v. S.P. Singh [1961]2SCR143 etc. Also, the
 State Government is competent to direct the Inspector
 General, Vigilance to take over the investigation of a
 cognizable offence registered at a police station vide State of Bihar v. A.C. Saldanna 1980 (1) SCC554. 39. A Division Bench of the Karnataka High Court in Guruduth Prabhu and
Ors. Vs. M.S. Krishna Bhat and Ors. , 1999 Crl.L.J. 3909 has also discussed the
issue in detail both in the context of Chapter XII and XV of the Code. The
relevant paragraphs reads as under:- This statutory right to investigate cognizable offence
 cannot be interfered with or controlled by the Courts
 including the High Court. It is open to the Court to
 take or not to take action when the police prefer a
 chargesheet after investigation. But the Court's
 function does not begin until the chargesheet is filed.
 Under Sub-section (2) police can investigate any
 offence taking the matter to be a cognizable offence
 although ultimately charges are filed for a non-
 cognizable offence since while investigating a
 cognizable offence, the police are not debarred from
 investigating any non-cognizable offence arising out of
 the same facts and including it in the report to be
 filed by them under Section 173, Cr. P.C., Sub-section
 (3) empowers the Magistrate to refer and direct the
 police to investigate a cognizable offence. But there is a
 restriction on the Magistrate before directing the police

[Crl.M.C.Nos.6122-23/2005 & Crl.M.C.Nos.6133-34/2005 Page 33 of 69]
 to investigate under Sub-section (3), the Magistrate
 should form an opinion that the complaint filed by the
 complainant before him disclose a cognizable offence.
 When the allegation made in the complaint does not
 disclose cognizable offence, the Magistrate has no
 jurisdiction tc order police investigation under Sub-
 section (3). In the present case, the learned Magistrate
 without applying his mind had directed an
 investigation by the police. Such an order which is
 passed without application of mind is clearly an order
 without jurisdiction. Therefore, the order passed
 directing the police to investigate under Sub-section (3)
 of Section 156, Cr. P.C, passed without jurisdiction is
 liable to be quashed by this Court either under Section
 482 , Cr.P.C, or under Article 226 of the Constitution of
 India. We find from the materials on record, the
 learned Magistrate has not at all applied his mind
 before directing police investigation under Section
 156(3), Cr. P.C If the Magistrate had applied his mind,
 the Magistrate could have found that no cognizable
 offence is made out even if the entire allegations made
 in the complaint are accepted. We have already come
 to the conclusion that none of the complaints filed by
 the complainants disclose a cognizable offence alleged
 under Section 167 , IPC. On this count alone the
 direction given by the Magistrate is liable to be
 quashed. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in State of
 Haryana v. Bhajan Lal 1992CriLJ527 has held that
 the High Court could either exercise its power under Article 226 of the Constitution of India or under Section
 482, Cr. P.C and quash the investigation to prevent
 abuse of the process of law or to secure the end of
 justice. 11. Sub-section (3) of Section 156 Cr. P.C, empowers
 Magistrate to order an investigation. Under Section
 157(1), Cr. P.C. an officer in charge of a Police Station
 having reason to suspect the commission of an
 offence which he is empowered under Section 156 ,
 Cr.P.C. to investigate should send a report to the
 Magistrate empowered to take cognizance of the
 offence upon a Police report and should proceed in
 person or depute one of his prescribed deputies to
 proceed to the spot to investigate under Section
 157(1)(a) when the offender is named and if the case
 is not of a serious nature the officer need proceed in
 person or depute his subordinate. Under Section
 157(1)(b) if it appears to such Police Officer that there
 is no sufficient ground for entering on an
 investigation he shall not investigate the case and the
 officer should inform the complainant under the
 prescribed manner. Thus, the Police Officer who is
 empowered to investigate on the information received
 by him of the commission of a cognizable offence can
 decide whether there is no sufficient ground for
 entering into an investigation and if there is no
 sufficient ground he should not investigate the case.
 But once the Magistrate orders an investigation under

[Crl.M.C.Nos.6122-23/2005 & Crl.M.C.Nos.6133-34/2005 Page 34 of 69]
 Section 156(3), Cr. P.C. the Police Officer is bound to
 investigate the matter and there is no question of his
 deciding not to investigate. Thus, by an order of the
 Magistrate under Section 156(3) the discretion given to
 the Police Officer under Section 157 is taken away. It
 is therefore very important that the Magistrate applies
 his mind and finds that the allegations made in the
 complaint filed under Section 200, Cr. P.C, before him
 discloses an offence. If every complaint filed under Section 200 , Cr.P.C, is referred to the police under
 Section 156(3) without application of mind about the
 disclosure of an offence, there is every likelihood of
 unscrupulous complainants in order to harass the
 alleged accused named by them in their complaints
 making bald allegations just to see that the alleged
 accused are harassed by the police who have no other
 go except to investigate as ordered by the Magistrate.
 Therefore, it is mandatory for the Magistrate to apply
 his mind to the allegations made in the complaint and
 in only cases which disclose an offence, the Magistrate
 gets jurisdiction to order an investigation by the police
 if he does not take cognizance of the offence. 40. The aforesaid Judgment also emphasis that there should be application
of mind before a Complaint is sent to Police for investigation and holds that it is
not necessary to refer every Complaint filed under Section 200 to the police for
investigation under Section156(3) of the Code. It has been stated that if such
order is passed in routine without application of mind there is every likelihood
of causing harassment to the accused persons by unscrupulous Complainants. 41. In another judgment delivered by this Court in the case of Skipper
Beverages Pvt. Ltd. Vs. State (supra) also relied upon by the petitioner a similar
view has been taken by this Court also. In that case the judgment of the Apex
Court in Suresh Chand Jain Vs. State of Madhya Pradesh(Supra) relied upon by
the complainant has also been referred to. The relevant paragraphs of that
judgment are also reproduced for the sake of reference: 42. Thus, there are pre-requisites to be followed by the complainant before
approaching the Magistrate under Section 156(3) of the Code which is a
discretionary remedy as the provision proceeds with the word „May‟. The
magistrate is required to exercise his mind while doing so. He should pass orders
only if he is satisfied that the information reveals commission of cognizable
offences and also about necessity of police investigation for digging out of
evidence neither in possession of the complainant nor can be procured without
the assistance of the police. It is thus not necessary that in every case where a
complaint has been filed under Section 200 of the Code the Magistrate should
direct the Police to investigate the crime merely because an application has also
been filed under Section 156(3) if the Code even though the evidence to be led by
the complainant is in his possession or can be produced by summoning
witnesses, may be with the assistance of the court or otherwise. The issue of
jurisdiction also becomes important at that stage and cannot be ignored. 43. Even though the judgments cited by the complainant/interveners have
been given on the peculiar facts in each case, they do not lay down any new or

[Crl.M.C.Nos.6122-23/2005 & Crl.M.C.Nos.6133-34/2005 Page 36 of 69]
 different principle than what has been discussed above. The Judgments
discuss about the discretion of the Magistrate weather to take Cognizance of
the offence or to proceed without taking cognizance in the matter i.e either to
proceed under Chapter XV or under Chapter XII of the Code. However all the
judgments are unanimous about application of judicial mind before any such
order is passed. 44. It would be appropriate to discuss one of the judgments relied upon by
the Complainant, which has also been referred in other cases also cited by him.
This is the judgment delivered in the case of Deverapalli Laxminarayana Reddy
and Ors. Vs. Narayana Reddy and Ors. , 1976 (3) SCC 252. In this judgment, it
has been said,
 "Section 156(3) occurs in Chapter XII, under the
 caption : "Information to the Police and their powers
 to investigate"; while Section 202 is in Chapter XV
 which bears the heading: "Of complaints to
 Magistrates". The power to order police investigation
 under Section 156(3) is different from the power to
 direct investigation conferred by Section 202(1). The
 two operate in distinct spheres at different stages. The
 first is exercisable at the pre-cognizance stage, the
 second at the post-cognizance stage when the
 Magistrate is in seisin of the case. That is to say in
 the case of a complaint regarding the commission of a
 cognizable offence, the power under Section 156(3)
 can be invoked by the Magistrate before he takes
 cognizance of the offence under Section 190(l)(a). But
 if he once takes such cognizance and embarks upon
 the procedure embodied in Chapter XV, he is not
 competent to switch back to the pre-cognizance stage
 and avail of Section 156(3). It may be noted further
 that an order made under sub-section (3) of Section
 156, is in the nature of a peremptory reminder or
 intimation to the police to exercise their plenary
 powers of investigation under Section 156(1). Such an
 investigation embraces the entire continuous process
 which begins with the collection of evidence under
 Section 156 and ends with a report or charge-sheet
 under Section 173. On the other hand, Section 202
 comes in at a stage when some evidence has been
 collected by the Magistrate in proceedings under
 Chapter XV, but the same is deemed insufficient to
 take a decision as to the next step in the prescribed
 procedure. In such a situation, the Magistrate is
 empowered under Section 202 to direct, within the
 limits circumscribed by that section an investigation
 "for the purpose of deciding whether or not there is

[Crl.M.C.Nos.6122-23/2005 & Crl.M.C.Nos.6133-34/2005 Page 37 of 69]
 sufficient ground for proceeding". Thus the object of
 an investigation under Section 202 is not to initiate a
 fresh case on police report but to assist the
 Magistrate in completing proceedings already
 instituted upon a complaint before him. 45. The decision to take cognizance under Chapter XV or to refer matter
under Chapters XII should be taken only after application of judicial mind has
also been laid emphasis even in the case of Ram Babu Gupta (supra) also relied
upon by Respondent No.2/Complainant heavily. The relevant observations
made in this regard reads as under:- 46. A learned Judge of this Court in the case of State Vs. Mohd. Iqbal Ghazi

and Ors. , 154 (2008) DLT 481 has explained as to how application of mind can

be made by the Magistrate in such matters. The relevant observation is

reproduced hereunder:- requisite of registration of a FIR is that the
 information disclosed must relate to the commission
 of a cognizable offence. Thus, even a Magistrate
 cannot proceed to issue any direction under Section
 156(3) of the Code unless he is prima facie satisfied
 that the information before him relates to the
 commission of a cognizable offence for the reason an
 order directing the police to investigate any
 cognizable offence would require the registration of a
 FIR inasmuch as relating to the commission of a
 cognizable offence no investigation can proceed
 without the registration of a FIR.................. [Crl.M.C.Nos.6122-23/2005 & Crl.M.C.Nos.6133-34/2005 Page 38 of 69] 33. It means that the person required to apply his
 mind has to come to grips with the facts before him
 and has to bring into focus the law on the subject
 and applying the facts to the law, to arrive at a
 conclusion by a process of reasoning, evidencing
 that all relevant facts have been taken note of and
 properly analyzed in the light of the law applicable.
 A truncated and an gibberish reproduction of facts,
 excluding relevant facts from the focus of the mind,
 would result in a decision being taken which can be
 classified as a decision without the application of
 mind. Informed reasoning is the heart of the matter. 47. Another aspect discussed in this judgment is about holding a
preliminary enquiry (another facet of application of mind) before an FIR is
registered by the SHO concerned, which naturally will also be applicable to a
Magistrate before directing registration of an FIR. The relevant paragraphs are
reproduced hereunder:- is definite and has a substance, the FIR must be
 registered. But where the information is vague and
 prima facie lacks credibility, a FIR need not be
 registered and some preliminary inquiry would be
 permissible to find out whether the information
 sought to be lodged has any substance therein or
 not. In the decision reported as 1992 Supply (1) SCC
 335 State of Haryana & Ors. Vs. Bhajan Lal & Ors.,
 the dictum laid down in the earlier decision of the
 Hon'ble Supreme Court reported as ( 1970) 1 SCC
 595 P.Sirajuddin Vs. State of Madras was noted with
 approval in the following words:- 48. Another judgment recently delivered by a Ld. Judge of this Court in
Crl.M.C.3601/2009 titled as Mohd. Salim Vs. State decided on 10.03.2010 also
needs mention. The relevant paragraphs are reproduced hereunder:- In fact, the Magistrate ought to direct investigation by
 the Police only where the assistance of the
 Investigating Agency is necessary and the Court feels
 that the cause of justice is likely to suffer in the
 absence of investigation by the Police. The Magistrate
 is not expected to mechanically direct investigation
 by the Police without first examining whether in the
 facts and circumstances of the case, investigation by
 the State machinery is actually required or not. If
 the allegations made in the complaint are simple,
 where the Court can straightaway proceed to
 conduct the trial, the Magistrate is expected to
 record evidence and proceed further in the matter,
 instead of passing the buck to the Police under
 Section 156(3) of the Code. Of course, if the
 allegations made in the complaint require complex
 and complicated investigation of which cannot be
 undertaken without active assistance and expertise
 of the State machinery, it would only be appropriate
 for the Magistrate to direct investigation by the
 Police. The Magistrate is, therefore, not supposed to
 act merely as a Post Office and needs to adopt a
 judicial approach while considering an application
 seeking investigation by the Police. 49. I am in complete agreement with the views expressed by ld. Brother
Judges of this Court in the judgments cited above. I may also observe that if
the Magistrate decides to proceed under Section 200 of the Code, then also the
Magistrate has power to call for a police report before issuing the process as
provided for under Section 202 of the Code. However, before calling for such a
report, the Magistrate will have to record evidence of the complainant as may
be produced. If such a procedure is followed, chances of abuse of the process
are less. Another safeguard can be to call for a status report from the police
about the stage of investigation if the complainant has already approached the
police before taking a view as to whether he should proceed under Chapter XII
or under Chapter XV. 50. This Court would also like to reiterate the observations made by the
Division Bench of Karnataka High Court in the case of Guru Dutt Prabhu & Ors. (supra) expressing the fear in sending every complaint filed under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C for Police investigation without application of mind, which certainly can be
used as a tool of harassment in the hands of unscrupulous complainant and
there are chances where this provision can be highly misused if the orders are
passed under Section 156(3) of the Code in routine, even where a complaint is
filed under Section 200 of the Code. [Crl.M.C.Nos.6122-23/2005 & Crl.M.C.Nos.6133-34/2005 Page 41 of 69] 51. The judgment delivered by another Single Judge of this Court long ago in
the case of Acharya Arun Dev Vs. State & Anr. 2005 (2) JCC 897 relied upon by
the Complainant dealing with similar direction given by the Magistrate under
Section 156(3) of the Code can also be referred to. Only because in that case,
the Court felt that there was a necessity for directing investigation by the Police
for the purpose of collection of evidence. However, in the present case situation
is different. Here the agreement, the subject matter of dispute, was very much
with the complainant, yet he did not feel it appropriate to place it on record
intentionally. He also failed to produce subsequent agreements whereby his
entire interest in the property in question stood assigned/transferred to a third
party who has not cared to come to the court even after mortgage which now
stand re-conveyed. The narration of events mentioned by the Apex Court in the
arbitration dispute (supra) also goes to show that the issues concerning the
original agreement stood even otherwise settled between the parties. However,
subsequently the complainant appears to have changed his mind and started
litigating with the petitioners to force his design to insist upon giving him more
land. None of these issues have been even discussed by the Metropolitan
Magistrate. The Magistrate has not even cared to find out as to whether Delhi
Courts will have jurisdiction or not and which part of the offence(s) if any has
been committed in Delhi requiring investigation by Delhi Police. The Magistrate
has neither discussed as to what offences are made out nor has discussed as to
who are the persons actually responsible for the commission of such offence, if
any. 52. The facts as they are before me goes to show that on the same day when
Utility claims to have lodged a report with the police, they also prepared a
complaint under Section 200 of the Code along with the application under
Section 156(3) of the Code, which is dated 27.5.2005. This shows that the
modus operandi of the complainant was to approach the Magistrate under
Section 156(3) of the Code immediately without waiting for police investigation
and without approaching higher authorities even if the SHO refused to register
an FIR. This also casts aspersions as to whether such a complaint was filed
with the Police at all. The Govt. of NCT of Delhi has taken a stand that such a
complaint was received in the concerned Police Station, but with a rider that
records are not available which makes it impossible for the court to verify the
facts as they are. This concludes the discussion on the first question.
52A. For the guidance of subordinate courts, the procedure to be followed while
dealing with an application under Section 156(3) of the Code is summarized as
under:- Upon a preliminary satisfaction, unless there are exceptional
 circumstances to be recorded in writing`, a status report by
 the police is to be called for before passing final orders. iii) The Magistrate, when approached with a Complaint
 under Section 200 of the Code, should invariably proceed
 under Chapter XV by taking cognizance of the Complaint,
 recording evidence and then deciding the question of
 issuance of process to the accused. In that case also, the
 Magistrate is fully entitled to postpone the process if it is felt
 that there is a necessity to call for a police report under
 Section 202 of the Code. (iv) Of course, it is open to the Magistrate to proceed under
 Chapter XII of the Code when an application under Section
 156(3) of the Code is also filed along with a Complaint under
 Section 200 of the Code if the Magistrate decides not to take
 cognizance of the Complaint. However, in that case, the
 Magistrate, before passing any order to proceed under
 Chapter XII, should not only satisfy himself about the pre- [Crl.M.C.Nos.6122-23/2005 & Crl.M.C.Nos.6133-34/2005 Page 43 of 69]
 requisites as aforesaid, but, additionally, he should also be
 satisfied that it is necessary to direct Police investigation in
 the matter for collection of evidence which is neither in the
 possession of the complainant nor can be produced by the
 witnesses on being summoned by the Court at the instance
 of complainant, and the matter is such which calls for
 investigation by a State agency. The Magistrate must pass
 an order giving cogent reasons as to why he intends to
 proceed under Chapter XII instead of Chapter XV of the
 Code. 53. On the principles as stated above, in the facts of this case, I am satisfied
that the impugned order dated 1.7.2005 passed by the Magistrate directing
investigation under section 156(3) of the Code after registering the FIR instead
of proceeding under chapter XV even though the complainant had approached
the Magistrate without approaching Senior Police officers as required under
Section 154(3) of the Code and also without discussing all the facts to find out
as to whether any cognizable offence was committed within the Jurisdiction of
that Court. He also failed to appreciate that it was not a case where there was
any need for police investigation at all as all the relevant documents were
already in possession of the Complainant who had not produced the same
intentionally only to suppress material facts and to mislead the Court. He has
also not grasped the facts of the case before passing the impugned order
without application of mind. Thus the said order cannot be sustained. 54. Coming then to the second question, I need not narrate the facts again
which have been discussed above. According to the petitioner a bare reading of
the FIR shows that no cognizable offence has been disclosed therein. The
Court of the Metropolitan Magistrate New Delhi where the Complaint was filed
had no Jurisdiction to try the same. The disputes raised by the Complainant
are civil disputes and for which the Complainant had also approached Civil
Courts by invoking Arbitration Clause even though those disputes were settled
long back. The complainant was also not left with any locus to file the
complaint as he had assigned his rights in the property by way of a tripartite
agreement to Ansal Housing Ltd, a third party for consideration, who has not
raised any dispute. It is submitted that in these circumstances initiation of the
Criminal litigation by the Complainant that also at Delhi is only an attempt of a
frustrated litigant to get something more knowing it fully well that he has no
legs to stand in view of the agreement dated 18.07.94, 22.6.96 and 28.6.96. [Crl.M.C.Nos.6122-23/2005 & Crl.M.C.Nos.6133-34/2005 Page 44 of 69]
 The only purpose appears to be an attempt to harass the petitioners just to
blackmail them by summoning them to Delhi though neither of the accused is
resident of Delhi, nor any other cause has arisen in Delhi. The land is also not
situated at Delhi, nor any offence has been committed in Delhi. Even the
mortgage was executed at Bombay & stands re-conveyed. More over the
criminal proceedings are initiated on distorted facts and by suppressing
relevant material which is very much in the possession of the Complainant. It is
also a matter of record that after the interim order was passed by this Court the
complainant did approach the Bombay Police for the same grievance but
without success. All this also reflects mala fides of the Complainant. 55. The petitioner has also relied upon the following judgments to contend

that in the aforesaid facts the Criminal Proceedings initiated by the

Complainant are liable to be quashed. i) Maksud Saiyed Vs. State of Gujarat & Ors. 2008 (5) SCC 668 ii) G. Sagar Suri & Anr. Vs. State of U.P. & Ors. 2000 (2) SCC 363 iii) Electronics Corporation of India Ltd. & Ors. Vs. Secretary,
 Revenue Department, Govt. of Andhra Pradesh & Ors. 1999 (4)
 SCC 458 iv) State of West Bengal & Ors. Vs. Swapan Kumar Guha & Ors. 1982
 (1) SCC 561 v) Ajay Mitra Vs. State of M.P. & Ors. 2003 (3) SCC 11. vi) Devendra & Ors. Vs. State of U.P. & Ors. 2009 (7) SC 495 vii) Mohammed Ibrahim & Ors. Vs. State of Bihar & Ors. 2009 (8) SCC 751 viii) A.K. Khosla & Ors. Vs. T.S. Venkatesan & Ors. 1992 Crl.L.J. (1448) ix) Indian Oil Corporation Vs. NEPC India Ltd. & Ors. (2006) 7 Scale 286 x) Srikrishna Polymers Ltd. Vs. State & Ors. (2007) 99 DRJ 167 xi) Hridaya Ranjan Prasad Verma Vs. State of Bihar (2000) 4 SCC 168 xii) Anil Mahajan Vs. Bhor Industries Ltd. & Anr. (2005) 10 SCC 228 xiii) All Cargo Movers India (P) Ltd. Vs. Dhanesh Badarmal Jain (2007)
 14 SCC 776 xiv) B.Suresh Yadav Vs. Sharifa Bee & Anr. (2007) 13 SCC 107 xv) Uma Shankar Gopalika Vs. State of Bihar & Anr. (2005) 10 SCC 336 xvi) Harmanpreet Singh Ahluwalia Vs. State of Punjab & Ors. (2009) 7
 SCC 712
 xvii) Sunil Kapoor & Anr. Vs. State & Anr. Crl.M.C.No. 102/2004
 decided on 6.10.2009
 xviii) Inder Mohan Goswami & Anr. Vs. State of Uttaranchal & Ors. ( 2007) 12 SCC 1
 xix) Kalpana Kutty, Proprietor of K. Film Kompanie Vs. the State of
 Maharashtra & Ors. (2007) 109 BOMLR 2342
 xx) Kusum Sandhu & Anr. Vs. Ved Prakash Narang 2008 (106) DRJ 721 xxi) Utam Kumar Bose Vs. National Capital Territory Delhi 2004 (76)

[Crl.M.C.Nos.6122-23/2005 & Crl.M.C.Nos.6133-34/2005 Page 45 of 69]
 DRJ 197
 xxii) Mohd. Salim Vs. State Crl.M.C. No. 3601/2009 Decided on
 10.03.2010. xxiii) Sanjay Poddar Vs. CBI 103 (2003) DLT 801 (DB)
 xxiv) Sundar Babu & Ors. Vs. State of Tamil Nadu 2009 (5) SCALE
 xxv) M/s Cogent Enterprises Ltd. Vs. State 2008 (2) JCC 1277 56. Regarding jurisdiction it has been submitted that the courts in Delhi
have no jurisdiction since the complainant has its registered office at Bombay.
All the respondents are at Bombay. The land in question is also situated at
Bombay. All the agreements were executed in Bombay. The complainant has
tried to confer jurisdiction to Delhi Courts merely on a bald assertion that some
discussion took place in Delhi office of the complainant without giving any
further details. It is submitted that such plea does not confer jurisdiction.
Reliance in this regard has been placed upon a judgment delivered by this
Court in the case of Shree Krishna Polysters Ltd. v. State and Ors., 2007(99)
DRJ 167. The relevant paragraph is reproduced hereunder:- The bald version that certain negotiations took place
 at Delhi would, in my opinion, would not confer
 jurisdiction on the courts at Delhi in view of the
 legal position that where offence of cheating and
 dishonest inducement results in delivery of
 property, courts within local jurisdiction whereof
 property was delivered by the person deceived or
 was received by accused persons would be the
 courts which would have territorial jurisdiction to
 entertain the complaint. 57. The petitioners also submitted that under Section 177 of the Code every
offence shall ordinarily be enquired into and tried by a Court within whose
jurisdiction the offence was committed. Under Section 156(1) an officer in
charge of a police station may investigate any cognizable offence which the
court having jurisdiction over the local area within the limits of such police
station would have power to enquire into. Thus, neither the learned MM had
power to direct registration of FIR under Section 156(3), nor could Delhi Police
can investigate into such an offence under Section 156(1) of the Code. 58. The counsel for the complainant while rebutting this argument has
submitted that the lack of jurisdiction cannot be a ground for quashing the
proceedings by relying upon the following judgments: 59. I have perused the aforesaid judgments and find that in all those
judgments it has been held that jurisdiction can be conferred on the Court
either where the offence has been commenced or where it has been completed
and even where part of the offence was committed. Therefore, only plea raised
by the complainant that a meeting had taken place in Delhi office of the
complainant without giving any details as to when and for what purpose such a
meeting had taken place, of which no minutes has been provided by the
complainant, jurisdiction cannot be conferred in Delhi. 60. According to the petitioner the allegations made in the complaint does
not make out any offence under Section 415 IPC or under Section 463 , 464 , 467 , 468 and 471 IPC. Section 415 of the Penal code and illustration (i) reads
as under: Illustrations (i) A sells and conveys an estate to B.A, knowing that
 in consequence of such sale he has no right to the
 property, sells or mortgages the same to Z, without
 disclosing the fact of the previous sale and
 conveyance to B, and receives the purchase or
 mortgage money from Z. A cheats. 61. It is submitted that following essential ingredients of Section 415 IPC are
missing in this case:- (1) To deliver any property to any person: or

[Crl.M.C.Nos.6122-23/2005 & Crl.M.C.Nos.6133-34/2005 Page 47 of 69]
 (2) To consent that any persons shall retain any property; or
 iii. Intentionally inducing that person to do or omit to anything which
 he would not do or omit if he were not so deceived, and
 iv. Which act or omission or is likely to cause damage or harm to that
 person in body, mind, reputation or property. It is stated that for attracting the offence of cheating, there has
 to be deception of the complainant. The mortgage transaction
 was between the petitioner and IL&FS wherein IL&FS released
 money. In that background, in absence of IL&FS having no
 grievance, the complainant cannot claim to have been cheated.
 The complainant has not stated in what manner has it been
 cheated, i.e., how and when the accused persons have induced
 the complainant insofar as the execution of the mortgage deed
 is concerned. Allegation in the FIR is not that entering into the
 agreement with the complainant in 1994 and payment of
 moneys thereafter was cheating or forgery, but the allegation is
 that the subsequent act of creating mortgage of the property on
 06.08.2004 in favour of IL&FS is cheating and forgery. 62. A reading of illustration (i) makes it clear that the complainant cannot
complain about being cheated. Firstly, bare perusal of the said illustration
proceeds on the premise that there has to be a "sale" and "conveyance" in
favour of the complainant. In the present case, there has been no sale or
conveyance of the land in favour of the complainant. No conveyance has been
mentioned or brought on record, because there is none. Secondly, as per this
illustration, offence of cheating would have been done against Z since the fact
of previous sale had not been disclosed to Z and still money had been received.
As per the said illustration, no offence can be said to have been committed
against the earlier purchaser. In the present case, the party in whose favour
the mortgage had been made has not alleged commision of any offence. This
aspect has also been discussed by the Hon‟ble Supreme Court in the case of Indian Oil Corporation Vs. NEPC (supra). As necessary ingredients for the offence
for cheating are not made out as defined under Section 415, no case of
cheating under Section 420 can be made out. 63. As regards inducement, it is submitted that there is no allegation of
deceit, cheating or fraudulent intention of the accused at the time of entering
into the contract. There is no pleading that there was any intention to cheat
from the very beginning or that the 1994 agreement was fraudulently executed.
The contract was executed in 1994 and after that parties have even given effect
to the agreement. The assignee of the rights of the Company has already
constructed the Flats over the land. Even otherwise a subsequent breach of a
contract i.e creation of Mortgage cannot be construed as cheating. To hold a
person guilty of cheating it is necessary to show that he had fraudulent or
dishonest intention at the time of making the promise. From his mere failure

[Crl.M.C.Nos.6122-23/2005 & Crl.M.C.Nos.6133-34/2005 Page 48 of 69]
 to keep up promise subsequently, a culpable intention right at the beginning,
that is, when he made the promise cannot be presumed. The element of mens
rea is totally missing. 64. To constitute an offence under Section 420 IPC, there should not only be
cheating, but as a consequence of such cheating, the accused should have
dishonestly induced the person so deceived to deliver any property or to make,
alter or destroy a valuable security. It is not the case of the complainant that
the accused person tried to deceive him either by making false or misleading
misrepresentation or by any other action. It is also not the case that the
accused persons offered him any fraudulent or dishonest inducement to deliver
any property or to intentionally induce him to do or omit to do anything which
he would not do or omit to do if he were not deceived. In the absence of any
allegation to that effect, a case of breach of contract would constitute a civil
wrong only. In the claim petition before the Tribunal, the Respondent has
asserted "breach of contract" to claim Rs.10 crores on account of creating
mortgage. 65. Reliance has also been placed by the petitioner upon a judgment
delivered in the case of Mohd. Ibrahim Vs. State of Bihar 2009(8) SCC 751.
Relevant paragraphs are paras 19-23, which are reproduced hereunder: 23. When we say that execution of a sale deed by a
 person, purporting to convey a property which is not his,
 as his property, is not making a false document and
 therefore not forgery, we should not be understood as
 holding that such an act can never be a criminal offence.
 If a person sells a property knowing that it does not
 belong to him, and thereby defrauds the person who
 purchased the property, the person defrauded, that is,
 the purchaser, may complain that the vendor committed
 the fraudulent act of cheating. But a third party who is
 not the purchaser under the deed may not be able to
 make such complaint. The ratio of this judgment squarely applied to the facts of this case. 66. Coming to the allegations of commission of forgery it would be relevant to
take note of Sections 463 and 464 of IPC. 463. Forgery. Whoever makes any false documents or electronic
 record part of a document or electronic record
 with, intent to cause damage or injury, to the
 public or to any person, or to support any claim or
 title, or to cause any person to part with property,
 or to enter into any express or implied contract, or
 with intent to commit fraud or that fraud may be
 committed, commits forgery. 464. Making a false document.:- A person is
 said to make a false document or false electronic
 record- First- Who dishonestly or fraudulently- c. makes signs, seals or executes a document or
 part of a document; (b) makes or transmits any electronic record or
 part of any electronic record; (d) makes any mark denoting the execution of a
 document or the authenticity of the digital
 signature,
 With the intention of causing it to be believed that

[Crl.M.C.Nos.6122-23/2005 & Crl.M.C.Nos.6133-34/2005 Page 50 of 69]
 such document or part of document, electronic
 record or digital signature was make, signed,
 sealed, executed, transmitted or affixed by or by
 the authority of a person by whom or by whose
 authority he knows that it was not made, signed,
 sealed, executed or affixed; or

 Secondly- Who, without lawful authority,
 dishonestly or fraudulently, by cancellation or
 otherwise, alters a document or an electronic
 record in any material part thereof, after it has
 been made, executed or affixed with digital
 signature either by himself or by any other person,
 whether such person be living or dead at the time
 of such alteration; or

 Thirdly- Who dishonestly or fraudulently
 causes any person to sign, seal, execute or alter a
 document or an electronic record to affix his digital
 signature on any electronic record knowing that
 such person by reason of unsoundness of mind or
 intoxication cannot, or that by reason of
 unsoundness of deception racticed upon him, he
 does not know the contents of the document or
 electronic record or the nature of the alterations. 67. Basic ingredients of the offence under Section 467, 468 and 471 are that
there should be forgery under Section 463 and forgery in turn depends upon
creation of a false document as defined in Section 464 IPC. 68. A person is said to have made a false document, if i) He made or executed a document claiming to be
 someone else or authorized by someone else; or ii) He altered or tampered a document; or iii) He obtained a document by practicing deception or
 from a person not in control of his senses 69. Thus execution of a document without authority is not forgery.
Reference made to illustration (h) of Section 464 would apply if only there is an
antedating. The contention of the respondent that creation of mortgage was
without any legal authority would be an aspect which is beyond the jurisdiction
of the Police investigation and does not constitute an offence of forgery within
the meaning of Section 463, 464, 465, 467 or Section 468 of IPC. Therefore, no
case of forgery is made out. The Company has not created any false document
of mortgage as defined under Section 463 IPC. 70. It is also submitted that the allegation made in the FIR makes it clear
that the present is a simple case of civil dispute as they are before an

[Crl.M.C.Nos.6122-23/2005 & Crl.M.C.Nos.6133-34/2005 Page 51 of 69]
 Arbitrator. As such the criminal proceedings deserve to be quashed. Reliance
in this regard has been placed upon Anil Mahajan Vs. Bhor Industries Ltd. &
Anr. 2005 (10) SCC 228, wherein it was held: noticed. The additional reason for not going into these
 aspects is that a civil suit is pending inter se the parties
 for the amounts in question. 71. It is also the contention of the petitioner that the complainant had no
locus to lodge the present FIR because the title of the land was always with
SRM. The land was never sold to UTILITY or to any other person. SRM is still
the title holder of the land and therefore, it could create a mortgage of whatever
rights it had remaining on the land. It is also submitted that the petitioner had
mortgaged not only this land but also his remaining land. It is also his
submission that if the respondent had any right, it was only over the flats that
were to be built on the said land and not on the land. The mortgage was,
however, executed in favour of IL&FS and on their satisfaction the complainant
cannot raise any grievance. Moreover, the said mortgage stands re-conveyed.
There is nothing on record to show that any loss has been sustained by the
Complainant on that score who even otherwise lost interest in the said property
much earlier. 72. Moreover, the very basis of the complaint is that the land in question is
complainant‟s property, which is an incorrect and false statement. By virtue of
the agreement dated 28.06.1996 and supplementary agreement dated
12.10.2004, the complainant has already assigned its entire rights under the
agreement dated 27.04.1994 to Ansals which is nothing else but right of
development and construction of flats on the land in question. Thus no right
remained with them to lodge a complaint more so when there is nothing on
record to show any loss was caused to it. This aspect has been confirmed to

[Crl.M.C.Nos.6122-23/2005 & Crl.M.C.Nos.6133-34/2005 Page 52 of 69]
 the petitioners by Ansals in its letter dated 04.03.2005. 73. The Apex Court has laid down in the case of Mohd. Ibrahim (supra) that
only the person aggrieved in such cases is the person in whose favour the sale
or mortgage has been done, which is not the case. 74. On the other hand, counsel for the Complainant has submitted that the
complainant has locus to maintain the present complaint. They also claims
that the criminal law can be set into motion even by a third party. In this
regard they have relied upon the following judgments: 75. The aforesaid judgments were given in the peculiar facts of those cases
where it was held that society cannot afford to allow any criminal to escape
through his liability since that would bring a state of social pollution. However,
this is not applicable in the facts of this case. Rather the attempt of the
Complainant was to get something more from the petitioners having lost in
earlier civil litigations. The action of the Complainant is only an attempt of a
frustrated litigant who cannot be permitted to invoke the criminal jurisdiction
for the purpose of abusing the same to the detriment of the petitioners and
others without any rhyme or reason. 76. The counsel for respondent no.2 also submits that the Complaint clearly
discloses commission of cognizable offence. It is also stated that complaint is
not required to reproduce verbatim all the ingredients of offences as alleged in
the body of the complaint. Reliance in this regard has been placed upon i) Rajesh Bajaj Vs. State of NCT of Delhi & Ors. , 1999 Crl.LJ 1833. ii) Acharya Arun Dev Vs. State & Anr. 2005 (2) JCC 897 iii) Punit Pruti Vs. State (Govt. NCT of Delhi ) 2009 (4) JCC 3006 iv) Devendra Singla Vs. Krishna Singla 2004 (iii) AD(Cr.) SC 217 v) Shri Bhagwan Samradha v. State of U.P 1999 CriLJ 3661 vi) G.V. Raon Vs. LHV Prasad & Ors. (2001) (1) JCC (SC) 386. 242

 However, perusal of these judgments does not help the complainant
taking into consideration the totality of the facts. 77. Before proceeding further it may also be observed that as on the date of
filing of the complaint, the complainant admittedly has been left with no
interest in the property subject matter of litigation inasmuch as, firstly the

[Crl.M.C.Nos.6122-23/2005 & Crl.M.C.Nos.6133-34/2005 Page 53 of 69]
 complainant by entering into the agreement dated 22.06.1996 with the
Company lost all interest in the property by accepting FSI of 86,725 Sq.ft. only
and secondly, they entered into an agreement with Ansals dated 28.06.1996
whereby they also assigned all their rights and obligations vide agreement
dated 28.6.96 with Ansals to build flats on the aforesaid area. These facts
were not informed to the Magistrate for reasons best known to them. The
allegation of the Company that this was to hide the truth, gain strength in this
way. 78. The respondents on the other hand have submitted that even if the
disputes raised by the Complainant are civil dispute as the parties are before
an Arbitrator and other Courts of higher status, it cannot be made basis for
quashing of the criminal proceedings because the complainant is entitled to
take out criminal proceedings if the same set of facts also discloses commission
of Criminal proceedings as held in the following judgments: 79. No doubt that as per these judgments even where there are civil disputes,
the possibility of commission of criminal offences cannot be ruled out and in
appropriate cases both civil as well as criminal proceedings can go on.
However, in the facts of this case as narrated above, the initiation of criminal
proceedings at the fag end of the litigation and the complainant having also
entered into agreements dated 18.07.94, 22.6.96 and 28.6.96 as also the
agreement dated 19.1.2005, subsequent to the original agreement whereby
terms of the original agreement were confined in the land only to the extent of
developing FSI equivalent to 87,625 sq.ft. and which rights were also assigned
to a third party for consideration by them, they cannot take benefits of these
judgments. 80. It is also the case of petitioners that the FIR is a result of mala fide and
has been got registered out of personal vendetta. The complainant before filing
the FIR had been filing various proceedings against the petitioners to create
pressure. He made complaint to the AAIFR, which was rejected on 12.09.2001.
He filed a Section 9 petition, which also was rejected on 04.05.2001 and appeal
against it, was also dismissed. In Writ Petition (C) No.9572-73 of 2003, the
complainant had filed a contempt petition alleging that creation of the mortgage

[Crl.M.C.Nos.6122-23/2005 & Crl.M.C.Nos.6133-34/2005 Page 54 of 69]
 on 06.08.2004 which was dismissed as not pressed on 20.08.2007. At the
same time, the respondent filed the present criminal complaint alleging
commission of criminal offence in respect of the very same mortgage.
Subsequently, in the arbitration proceedings against the petitioner company,
the respondent has alleged that the grant of the questioned mortgage has
constituted breach of contract and has demanded damages. Thus, all along,
the complainant has been seeking to misuse the pressure of law and create
pressure on the petitioners to seek wrongful gains. As observed earlier, the
complaint was filed after the petitioner had approached the Supreme Court for
continuation of arbitration proceedings but without disclosing the sequence of
events as noticed by the Supreme Court in view of the date of the execution of
the agreement, entering into subsequent agreements by the parties, whereby
not only the complainant transferred his interest in the property to a third
party but had also settled the question of transfer of land for development
limited to the extent of 86, 725 sq.ft. FSI. Moreover, the original agreement was
entered into between the parties way back in 1994, the parties had been in
litigation for a number of years before filing of the present complaint. However,
this material fact was not brought to the notice of the Court nor the relevant
documents were filed. Reliance is placed upon the judgment of the Supreme
Court in the case of Chandrapal Singh & Ors. Vs. Maharaj Singh & Anr. , AIR
1982 SC 1238 that chagrined and frustrated litigants should not be permitted
to give vent to their frustration by cheaply invoking jurisdiction of the criminal
court. The relevant paragraphs of the aforesaid judgment read as under: 81. The counsel for the complainant relying upon the judgment delivered in
the case of Renu Kumari Vs. Sanjay Kumar & Ors. 2008 (2) JCC 1032 has
submitted that in a case where the FIR has been registered by the Police, the
allegation of mala fide are of no relevance inasmuch as those allegations have
to be examined only by the investigating agency while investigating the crime.
It would be appropriate to take note of the observations made by the Court in
this regard: [See Dhanalakshmi v. R. Prasanna Kumar 1990 Supp
 SCC 686, State of Bihar v. P.P. Sharma 1992 ( 1) Supp
 SCC 222, Rupan Deol Bajaj v. Kanwar Pal Singh Gill 1995 ( 6) SCC 194, State of Kerala v. O.C. Kuttan 1999
 ( 2) SCC 651, State of U.P. v. O.P. Sharma 1996 ( 7) SCC
 705 , Rashmi Kumar v. Mahesh Kumar
 Bhada1997 ( 2)SCC 397, Satvinder Kaur v. State (Govt.
 of NCT of Delhi 1999(8) SCC 728 and Rajesh Bajaj v.
 State NCT of Delhi(supra)]" Indeed, a noticeable feature of the scheme under
 Chapter XIV of the Code is that a Magistrate is kept
 in the picture at all stages of the police investigation
 but he is not authorised to interfere with the actual
 investigation or to direct the police how that
 investigation is to be conducted. But if a police
 officer transgresses the circumscribed limits and
 improperly and illegally exercises his investigatory
 powers in breach of any statutory provision causing
 serious prejudice to the personal liberty and also
 property of a citizen, then the court on being
 approached by the person aggrieved for the redress
 of any grievance, has to consider the nature and
 extent of the breach and pass appropriate orders as
 may be called for without leaving the citizens to the
 mercy of police echelons since human dignity is a
 dear value of our Constitution. It needs no emphasis
 that no one can demand absolute immunity even if
 he is wrong and claim unquestionable right and
 unlimited powers exercisable up to unfathomable
 cosmos. Any recognition of such power will be
 tantamount to recognition of „Divine Power‟ which
 no authority on earth can enjoy. [Crl.M.C.Nos.6122-23/2005 & Crl.M.C.Nos.6133-34/2005 Page 57 of 69] 98. Speaker for the bench, Ranganath Misra, J. as
 he then was in Madhavrao Jiwaji Rao Scindia v.
 Sambhajirao Chandrojirao Angre 1988(1)SCC 692
 has expounded the law as follows: 84. The case in hand is squarely covered by Clause (1)(3)&(4) of para 102 of
the aforesaid judgment. The same view was reiterated in Inder Mohan Goswami
& Anr. Vs. State of Uttaranchal & Ors. 2007 (12) SCC 1. 23. This Court in a number of cases has laid down
 the scope and ambit of courts‟ powers under Section
 482 CrPC. Every High Court has inherent power to
 act ex debito justitiae to do real and substantial
 justice, for the administration of which alone it exists,
 or to prevent abuse of the process of the court.
 Inherent power under Section 482 CrPC can be
 exercised: 24. Inherent powers under Section 482 CrPC though
 wide have to be exercised sparingly, carefully and
 with great caution and only when such exercise is
 justified by the tests specifically laid down in this
 section itself. Authority of the court exists for the
 advancement of justice. If any abuse of the process
 leading to injustice is brought to the notice of the
 court, then the court would be justified in preventing
 injustice by invoking inherent powers in absence of
 specific provisions in the statute. 25. Reference to the following cases would reveal that
 the courts have consistently taken the view that they
 must use this extraordinary power to prevent
 injustice and secure the ends of justice. The English
 courts have also used inherent power to achieve the
 same objective. It is generally agreed that the Crown
 Court has inherent power to protect its process from
 abuse. In Connelly v. DPP 1964 AC 1254. Lord Devlin
 stated that where particular criminal proceedings
 constitute an abuse of process, the court is
 empowered to refuse to allow the indictment to

[Crl.M.C.Nos.6122-23/2005 & Crl.M.C.Nos.6133-34/2005 Page 59 of 69]
 proceed to trial. Lord Salmon in DPP v. Humphrys
 1977 AC 1, stressed the importance of the inherent
 power when he observed that it is only if the
 prosecution amounts to an abuse of the process of
 the court and is oppressive and vexatious that the
 judge has the power to intervene. He further
 mentioned that the court‟s power to prevent such
 abuse is of great constitutional importance and
 should be jealously preserved. 26. In R.P. Kapur v. State of Punjab AIR 1960 SC 866,
 this Court summarized some categories of cases
 where inherent power can and should be exercised to
 quash the proceedings: 27. The powers possessed by the High Court under
 Section 482 of the Code are very wide and the very
 plenitude of the power requires great caution in its
 exercise. The Court must be careful to see that its
 decision in exercise of this power is based on sound
 principles. The inherent power should not be
 exercised to stifle a legitimate prosecution. The High
 Court should normally refrain from giving a prima
 facie decision in a case where all the facts are
 incomplete and hazy, more so, when the evidence has
 not been collected and produced before the Court and
 the issues involved, whether factual or legal, are of
 such magnitude that they cannot be seen in their true
 perspective without sufficient material. Of course, no
 hard-and-fast rule can be laid down in regard to cases
 in which the High Court will exercise its extraordinary
 jurisdiction of quashing the proceedings at any stage. 85. Lastly, while opposing the aforesaid contention of the petitioner, counsel
for respondent No.2 submitted that a petition under Section 482 of the Code is
not maintainable when the investigation has not been completed and at this
stage it is impermissible for the High Court to look into the material which is
essentially a matter to be looked into by the Trial Court at the time of trial. It is
his submission that while exercising jurisdiction under Section 482 of the Code
the High Court cannot act as if it is a Trial Court but has to act with due care
and circumspection while quashing any criminal proceedings at the inception
stage. Reliance in this regard has been placed upon the following judgments: 86. However, in view of the judgments of the Apex Court as discussed above,
I do not find any strength in the argument advanced. Now, I may also refer to
observations made by a learned Single Judge of this court in the case of Mohd.
Salim (supra) regarding applicability of Section 482 of the Code, in particular in
a case when the power under Section 156(3) of the Code has been exercised by
the Magistrate. Relevant observations made in paragraphs 14 to 18 of this
judgment are reproduced hereunder:- The State of Maharashtra' (1977) 4 SCC 551, the
 Hon'ble Supreme Court held that the inherent powers
 of the High Court come into play when there is no
 provision for redressal of the grievance of the
 aggrieved party. Of course, the power under Section
 482 of the Code needs to be exercised very sparingly
 and only to prevent abuse of the process of the Court
 or to otherwise secure the ends of justice. 16. When the High Court, on examination of the
 record finds that there is a grave miscarriage of
 justice or abuse of the process of the Court or there is
 failure of justice on account of the order passed by
 the Court below, it becomes the duty of the High
 Court to correct such an order at the very inception,
 lest miscarriage of justice ensues. It is with a view to
 meet the ends of justice and prevent abuse of the
 process that the High Court has been vested with
 inherent powers, which have been recognized by the
 Legislature in statutory recognition in Section 482 of
 the Code of Criminal Procedure. Therefore, the order
 passed by the Magistrate under Section 156(3) of the
 Code of Criminal Procedure irrespective of whether it
 directs investigation by the Police or it declines to give
 such a direction, can be challenged before the High
 Court under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal
 Procedure. 17. Even an order which is incapable of being
 challenged under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal
 Procedure can be challenged by way of a writ petition
 under Article 226/227 of the Constitution. Recently, I
 had an opportunity to examine this issue while
 deciding Criminal Revision Petition No. 293/2006
 titled R.C. Sabharwal v. Central Bureau of
 Investigation and connected cases 166 (2010) DLT 362. After reviewing case law on the subject, I held
 that even an interlocutory order passed by a Special
 Judge exercising power under Prevention of
 Corruption Act can be challenged by way of a writ
 petition. It was noted that Article 227 of the
 Constitution gives, to High Court, the power of
 superintendence over all Courts and Tribunals
 throughout the territories in relation to which it
 exercises jurisdiction and this jurisdiction conferred
 upon the High Court cannot be limited or fettered
 even by an Act of the State Legislature. Referring to
 the decision of the Supreme Court in Industrial Credit
 and Investment Corporation of India Limited v.
 Grapco Industries Limited , 1999 (4) SCC 710, where
 it was held that there was no bar on the High Court
 examining the merits of the case in exercise of its
 jurisdiction under Article 227 of the Constitution if
 the circumstances so require, the decision of the
 Supreme Court in Surya Dev Rai v. Ram Chander Rai
 and Ors. (2003) 6 SCC 675, holding that the
 amendment of the Section 115 of Code of Criminal

[Crl.M.C.Nos.6122-23/2005 & Crl.M.C.Nos.6133-34/2005 Page 62 of 69]
 Procedure could not have taken away the
 constitutional jurisdiction of the High Court to issue a
 writ of Certiorari nor can the power of the
 superintendence conferred on the High Court under Article 227 of the Constitution be taken away, the
 decision of the Supreme Court in Rupa Ashok Hurra
 (2002) 4 SCC 388, holding that the orders and
 proceedings of a judicial court subordinate to the
 High Court can be challenged under Article 226 of the
 Constitution, and also relying upon the decision of a
 Constitution Bench of Supreme Court in L. Chandra
 Kumar v. Union of India 1997 (3) SCC 261, holding
 therein that the jurisdiction conferred on the High
 Court under Article 226 and 227 of the Constitution
 is a part of the basic structure of the Constitution,
 forming its integral and essential feature, which
 cannot be tampered with or taken away even by
 constitutional amendment, it was held that
 irrespective of the embargo placed by Section 19(3)(C) , 115 of Prevention of Corruption Act, an interlocutory
 order passed by the Special Judge can be challenged
 by way of a writ petition under Article 226/227 of the
 Constitution. 18. In Vanshu v. State of U.P. 2007 Crl. L.J. 4677,
 Allahabad High Court held that the order passed by
 the Magistrate, directing registration of FIR and
 investigation of the case, being an interlocutory order,
 is not amenable to revisional jurisdiction of the High
 Court. In the case before Allahabad High Court, the
 order passed by the Magistrate under Section 156(3) of the Code of Criminal Procedure was challenged by
 the accused persons by filing a revision petition before
 the Sessions Judge, who set-aside the order passed
 by the Magistrate. The order passed by the Magistrate
 was then challenged before the High Court on the
 ground that the order being a pre-cognizance order,
 Sessions Judge had no jurisdiction to entertain the
 revision filed by the accused. The High Court felt that
 while passing order under Section 156(3) of the Code
 of Criminal Procedure, the Magistrate had not applied
 his mind against anybody and since the accused does
 not have right to appear before the Magistrate at pre-
 cognizance stage, he cannot challenged an
 interlocutory order passed in such a proceedings. The
 High Court observed that the order passed by the
 Magistrate was only a preemptory reminder or
 intimation to the police to exercise their plenary
 power of the investigation. The petition before this
 Court being under Section 482 of the Code of
 Criminal Procedure, the decision of Allahabad High
 Court taking a view that the order passed by the
 Magistrate being an interlocutory order, could not be
 challenged under Section 397(2) of the Code does not
 apply to this petition. Even an interlocutory order can
 definitely be challenged by way of a petition under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, as
 noted earlier. [Crl.M.C.Nos.6122-23/2005 & Crl.M.C.Nos.6133-34/2005 Page 63 of 69] 87. It would be also useful to refer to para 16 of the judgment delivered by
the Apex Court in the case of All India Cargo Movers India Pvt. Ltd. and Ors. Vs.
Dhanesh Badarmal Jain & Anr. 2007 (14) SCC 776. The relevant paragraph is
reproduced hereunder: 88. At this stage, it would also be relevant to refer the judgment of the
Supreme Court in the case of State of West Bengal & Ors. Vs. Swapan Kumar
Guha & Ors. 1982 (1) SCC 561. The relevant observations made in this regard
are as under:- It seems to me impossible to hold on the basis of
 these allegations that any offence can be said to be
 made out prima facie under Section 3 of the Act. In
 the first place, the FIR does not allege, directly or
 indirectly, that the firm was promoting or
 conducting a scheme for the making of quick or
 easy money, dependent on any event or contingency
 relative or applicable to the enrolment of members
 into the scheme. Secondly, the FIR does not contain
 any allegation whatsoever that persons who
 advanced or deposited their monies with the firm
 were participants of a scheme for the making of
 quick or easy money, dependent upon any such
 event or contingency. The FIR bears on its face the
 stamp of hurry and want of care. It seems to
 assume, what was argued before us by Shri
 Somnath Chatterjee on behalf of the prosecution,
 that it is enough for the purposes of Section 2(c) to
 show that the accused is promoting or conducting a
 scheme for the making of quick or easy money, an
 assumption which I have shown to be fallacious. An
 essential ingredient of Section 2(c) is that the
 scheme for making quick or easy money must be
 dependent on any event or contingency relative or
 applicable to the enrolment of members into the
 scheme. A first information report which does not
 allege or disclose that the essential requirements of
 the penal provision are prima facie satisfied, cannot
 form the foundation or constitute the starting point of
 a lawful investigation. 13. It is clear from these averments that even at the
 stage when the State of West Bengal and its
 concerned officers submitted detailed affidavits to
 the High Court, there was no clear basis for alleging
 and no material was disclosed to show that, prima
 facie, the firm was promoting or conducting a
 scheme for making quick or easy money which was
 dependent upon an event or contingency relative or
 applicable to the enrolment of members into that
 scheme. The burden of the State‟s song is that the
 scheme conducted by the accused generates black
 money and will paralyse the economy of the country.
 These are serious matters indeed and it is
 unquestionable that a private party cannot be
 permitted to issue bearer bonds by the back door.
 The fact that the accused are indulging in an
 economic activity which is highly detrimental to
 national interests is a matter which must engage the
 prompt and serious attention of the State and

[Crl.M.C.Nos.6122-23/2005 & Crl.M.C.Nos.6133-34/2005 Page 65 of 69]
 Central Governments. But the narrow question for
 our consideration is whether on the basis of the
 allegations made against the accused, there is
 reason to suspect that they are guilty of an offence
 under Section 4 read with Sections 3 and 2(c) of the
 Act. The allegation which we have reproduced in
 clause (ix) above from the affidavit of Arun Kanti Roy
 is the nearest that can be considered relevant for
 the purposes of Section 2(c) of the Act. But even that
 allegation does not meet the requirement of that
 section since, what it says is that "the payment of
 quick and easy money by way of high rate of interest
 is dependent upon the period of investment and/or
 efflux of time which are very much relative and/or
 applicable to the membership of the depositors of
 the scheme to which the depositor agrees to
 subscribe". This is too tenuous to show that the
 scheme is dependent upon an event or contingency
 of the description mentioned in Section 2(c) , apart
 from the fact that the only participation which is
 alleged as against the depositors is that they become
 members of the "investment scheme" by subscribing
 to it. There is no allegation even in any of the
 affidavits filed on behalf of the State of West Bengal
 and its concerned officers that the depositors and
 the promoters are animated by a community of
 interest in the matter of the scheme being
 dependent upon any event or contingency relative or
 applicable to the enrolment of members into it. That
 being an essential ingredient of the offence charged,
 it cannot be said in the absence of any allegation
 whatsoever in that behalf, that there is "reason to
 suspect" the commission of that offence within the
 meaning of Section 157 of the Code of Criminal
 Procedure, so as to justify the investigation
 undertaken by the State authorities. 65. In my opinion, the legal position is well settled.
 The legal position appears to be that if an offence is
 disclosed, the court will not normally interfere with
 an investigation into the case and will permit
 investigation into the offence alleged to be
 completed; if, however, the materials do not disclose
 an offence, no investigation should normally be
 permitted. The observations of the Judicial
 Committee and the observations of this Court in the
 various decisions which I have earlier quoted, make
 this position abundantly clear. The propositions
 enunciated by the Judicial Committee and this
 Court in the various decisions which I have earlier
 noted, are based on sound principles of justice.
 Once an offence is disclosed, an investigation into
 the offence must necessarily follow in the interests
 of justice. If, however, no offence is disclosed, an
 investigation cannot be permitted, as any
 investigation, in the absence of any offence being
 disclosed, will result in unnecessary harassment to
 a party, whose liberty and property may be put to

[Crl.M.C.Nos.6122-23/2005 & Crl.M.C.Nos.6133-34/2005 Page 66 of 69]
 jeopardy for nothing. The liberty and property of any
 individual are sacred and sacrosanct and the court
 zealously guards them and protects them. An
 investigation is carried on for the purpose of
 gathering necessary materials for establishing and
 proving an offence which is disclosed. When an
 offence is disclosed, a proper investigation in the
 interests of justice becomes necessary to collect
 materials for establishing the offence, and for
 bringing the offender to book. In the absence of a
 proper investigation in a case where an offence is
 disclosed, the offender may succeed in escaping
 from the consequences and the offender may go
 unpunished to the detriment of the cause of justice
 and the society at large. Justice requires that a
 person who commits an offence has to be brought to
 book and must be punished for the same. If the
 court interferes with the proper investigation in a
 case where an offence has been disclosed, the
 offence will go unpunished to the serious detriment
 of the welfare of the society and the cause of the
 justice suffers. It is on the basis of this principle
 that the court normally does not interfere with the
 investigation of a case where an offence has been
 disclosed. The decisions on which Mr Chatterjee has
 relied are based on this sound principle, and in all
 these cases, an offence had been disclosed. Relying
 on the well settled and sound principle that the
 court should not interfere with an investigation into
 an offence at the stage of investigation and should
 allow the investigation to be completed, this Court
 had made the observations in the said decisions
 which I have earlier quoted reiterating and
 reaffirming the sound principles of justice. The
 decisions relied on by Mr. Chatterjee, do not lay
 down, as it cannot possibly be laid down as a broad
 proposition of law, that an investigation must
 necessarily be permitted to continue and will not be
 prevented by the court at the stage of investigation,
 even if no offence is disclosed. While adverting to this
 specific question as to whether an investigation can
 go on even if no offence is disclosed, the Judicial
 Committee in the case of King-Emperor v. Khwaja
 Nazir Ahmad AIR 1945 PC 18 and this Court in R.P.
 Kapur v. State of Punjab ( supra), Jehan Singh v.
 Delhi Administration 1974( 4)SCC522 and S.N.
 Sharma v. Bipen Kumar Tiwari 1970(1)SCC653, have
 clearly laid down that no investigation can be
 permitted and have made the observations which I
 have earlier quoted and which were relied on by Mr
 Sen. As I have earlier observed this proposition is not
 only based on sound logic but is also based on
 fundamental principles of justice, as a person against
 whom no offence is disclosed, cannot be put to any
 harassment by the process of investigation which is
 likely to put his personal liberty and also property
 which are considered sacred and sacrosanct into
 peril and jeopardy. [Crl.M.C.Nos.6122-23/2005 & Crl.M.C.Nos.6133-34/2005 Page 67 of 69] 66. Whether an offence has been disclosed or not
 must necessarily depend on the facts and
 circumstances of each particular case. In
 considering whether an offence into which an
 investigation is made or to be made, is disclosed or
 not, the court has mainly to take into consideration
 the complaint or the FIR and the court may in
 appropriate cases take into consideration the
 relevant facts and circumstances of the case. On a
 consideration of all the relevant materials, the court
 has to come to the conclusion whether an offence is
 disclosed or not. If on a consideration of the relevant
 materials, the court is satisfied that an offence is
 disclosed, the court will normally not interfere with
 the investigation into the offence and will generally
 allow the investigation into the offence to be
 completed for collecting materials for proving the
 offence. If, on the other hand, the court on a
 consideration of the relevant materials is satisfied
 that no offence is disclosed, it will be the duty of the
 court to interfere with any investigation and to stop
 the same to prevent any kind of uncalled for and
 unnecessary harassment to an individual. 82. As no offence under the Act is at all disclosed, it
 will be manifestly unjust to allow the process of
 criminal code to be issued or continued against the
 firm and to allow any investigation which will be
 clearly without any authority. 84. I, therefore, hold that the proceedings against
 the firm and its partners arising out of the FIR must
 be quashed as the FIR and the other materials do
 not disclose any offence under the Act and as such
 no investigation into the affairs of the firm under the
 Act can be permitted or allowed to be continued. I,
 accordingly, quash the proceedings against that firm
 and its partners and order that no investigation
 under the Act into the affairs of the firm is to be
 carried on or continued. 89. The same view was also followed by the Apex Court in its subsequent
judgment in the case of Ajay Mitra (supra) as also in the judgment delivered by
this Court in the case of Uttam Kumar Bose Vs. National Capital Territory Delhi 2004 (76) DRJ 197. 90. Applying the aforesaid legal position to the facts of this case as discussed
above, it is apparent that while passing the order under Section 156(3) of the
Code, the Magistrate has neither perused the agreement dated 27.04.1994, the
agreement dated 18.07.1994 nor the agreements dated 22.06.1996 and
28.06.1996 which settled all the disputes in relation to the availability of FSI

[Crl.M.C.Nos.6122-23/2005 & Crl.M.C.Nos.6133-34/2005 Page 68 of 69]
 only to the extent of 86,725 sq. ft. to the satisfaction of the complainant.
Reading of these agreements also makes it abundantly clear that the ownership
and possession of the land in question remained with the Company. The
mortgage which was created along with all other properties by the Company
also stands reconveyed. The factum of transfer of rights of the complainant to
Ansals, a third party, who has not raised any grievance against the Company
was also not disclosed to the Magistrate. There is nothing on record to show
that on account of such mortgage having been created which may at the most
constitute a breach of agreement any loss has been caused to the Complainant.
On the facts of this case, even if proper procedure had been followed by the
Magistrate, no offence is made out. The filing of the complaint was mala fide and
an abuse of process. 91. In these circumstances, I am satisfied that the order dated 01.07.2005
directing investigation of the complaint and registration of the FIR in this case as
well as the FIR registered pursuant thereto bearing No. No.436/2005 dated
06.08.2005 registered at Police Station Defence Colony under Section
420 / 467 / 468 / 471 / 120-B / 34 IPC amount to abusing the process of the Court and
thus, are liable to be quashed. Accordingly, the order dated 01.07.2005 passed by
the Metropolitan Magistrate, New Delhi as well as the FIR No. 436/2005 registered
at the Defence Colony, Police Station, New Delhi are hereby quashed. Both the
petitions are allowed. The Complainant/Respondent No.2 in the facts of this case is
also burdened with a costs of Rs. 2,00,000.00/- (Two lacs) to be paid to the Delhi
Legal Services Authority within one month from today. Further, the Petitioners will
also be free to take such other action against the Complainant and others involved
for recovery of costs, damages, etc. as may be permissible in law. 92. Before closing, I must appreciate the laborious assistance rendered by the
counsel involved in this case and the others who were requested to assist, which
has enabled me to cover a wide range of case law. 93. A copy of this judgment be sent to the Chairman, Delhi Judicial Academy.
Further, as this problem arises often, and to prevent parties from misusing the
process of law ( section 156(3) Cr.P.C), the Registrar General of this court will
ensure that a copy of paragraph 52A (containing the guidelines) is circulated as an
excerpt to all subordinate judicial officers in Delhi. MOOL CHAND GARG, J
JULY 09, 2010
ag/dc/anb

[Crl.M.C.Nos.6122-23/2005 & Crl.M.C.Nos.6133-34/2005 Page 69 of 69]