The petitioner has approached this court seeking bail in connection with

Complaint Case C.M.C. (PMLA) No.47 of 2017 arising out of

ECIR/07/2009/BBSR pending before the Ld. Sessions Judge, Khorda-cum-

Special Court under PMLA, Khorda at Bhubaneswar under Section 439 of the

Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973. 2. A brief factual background of the case demonstrates that a case was

registered at Sahadevkhunta Police Station, District - Balasore, Odisha bearing

FIR No.118/2009 dated 17/07/2009 U/s. 406/420/468/471/34, I.P.C . and Sections

4 , 5 and 6 of Prize Chits and Money Circulation Schemes (Banning) Act, 1978

on the basis of a written complaint dated 17/07/2009 lodged by one Niranjan

Sahoo, alleging that he had been cheated and defrauded by alluring to invest

Rs.10,000/- in the attractive investment Scheme of M/s. Fine Indisales Pvt. Ltd

(hereinafter referred as to M/s. "FIPL"). It is further alleged that he has been

the receiving end of such deceptive Scheme once again and deposited of

Rs.40,000/- therein. He also introduced 20 other persons to invest in such

schemes. But he had neither received the said financial product nor the

product voucher as per the agreement with M/s. FIPL and the said M/s. FIPL

collected huge amounts of money from the public and ultimately duped huge

amount from innocent public by giving false assurance of high return for their

deposit of money. Thus, he requested for an investigation regarding the

money circulation scheme which culminated into registration of a case by the

said police station. Subsequently, the investigation of the aforesaid P.S. Case

No.118/2009 dt. 17.07.2009 got transferred to CB, CID of Odisha as per order

No.189/CID dated 18.07.2009 by registering CB, CID Case No.17 dated

18.07.2009 against officials of M/s. FIPL under the aforesaid sections. 3. On 12.12.2012, this Court while hearing W.P.(C) No.7693/2011,1 directed that

looking at the massive financial impact in the case, the investigation of the

aforesaid case be handed over to the CBI. In compliance with the said

direction, the Central Bureau of Investigation (hereinafter referred to as "CBI")

 1 All India Networkers Welfare Trust and another vs. Superintendent of Police, CID and Others, W.P.(C)
 No.7693/2011. took over the investigation. Accordingly, CBI Economic Offence Wing,

Kolkata registered a case vide No.-RC 02/E/2013-KOL on 01.03.2013 after duly

taking over the FIR of CB, CID, Odisha Case No.17/2009 registered U/s.

406/420/468/471/34 of IPC , read with Secs. 4, 5 & 6 of Prize Chits and Money

Circulation Schemes (Banning) Act, 1978 against the officials of the said FIPL. 4. Case corresponding to the original FIR was also recorded by the

Enforcement Directorate (ECIR/07/2009/BBSR dated 18.11.2009) on the basis of

the aforesaid P.S. Case No.118 dated 17.07.2009 as the said FIR revealed the

commission of certain Scheduled Offences under PML Act, 2002 and

investigation was taken up under various provisions of The Prevention of

Money Laundering Act, 2002 (hereinafter referred as " PML Act "). 5. The investigation, thus far, has revealed that M/s. FIPL had floated a

fraudulent scheme of their company on 28.08.2008 inviting deposits from

public for the said scheme deceitfully and advertised as a "Multi-level

marketing scheme" with a terminal ulterior motive to siphon off the funds

collected from public. The advertised scheme of FIPL, ex-facie appears to be a

bodacious Ponzi scheme, inducing the susceptible depositors by way of

misrepresentation, promising immediate refund in case of any default and

timely payment of return on the part of FIPL. Investigation, therefore, has

prima facie established that the accused persons connected with M/s. FIPL not

only criminally conspired and cheated the depositors but also lured them into

the scheme with a rogue mindset. This sort of an economic demonology at the

hands of M/s. FIPL, its Directors and Shareholders has been instrumental in

making a windfall gain of about Rs.703 crores, as revealed from their own

records. 6. Investigation further reveals that the aforesaid sum of money, stained with

the sweat, tears and blood of multitudes of innocent people has since been

moved around and subjected to Machiavellian layering through a myriad of

shell companies and bogus transactions. The money collected from such

scheme immediately got transferred to different bank accounts of individuals

as well as firms under the management and control of the

Promotors/Directors/Shareholders of the said M/s. FIPL which is nothing but

an act of sheltering the said "proceeds of crime" as envisaged under Section 2

(u) of the PML Act. The Forensic Audit conducted by the CBI during the

course of investigation reveals that the total money invested by the depositors

adds up to Rs.703, 50, 00,079/-. The modus operandi adopted while transferring

such prodigious sum of ill-gotten wealth with the singular intention of

concealing the original source of funds and to project the tainted money as

untainted ex facie constitute the offence of money laundering. 7. Scrutiny of the books of account of FIPL further reveals that about Rs.152

Crores were transferred to one M/s. Eve Industries which were further layered

by laundering the same to one M/s. Great Entertainments and further to the

accounts of M/s. Lemon Entertainment Ltd. where the petitioner was also a

Director at the relevant point of time (financial year 2009-10). In this way, the

complicity of the petitioner in the instant case is quite visible. This money was

transferred to the Bank A/c No.00421300000134 of M/s. Lemon Entertainment

Ltd. whose account was being maintained in DCB Bank, Andheri, Mumbai

and A/c. No.020010200044907 maintained in Axis Bank, Lokhandwala Branch,

Mumbai. The details of cheques through which the money was transferred 5 from the accounts of M/s. Great Entertainments to the above accounts of M/s.

Lemon Entertainment Ltd. are as under: He further contended that the present Petitioner had cooperated in

investigation as and when he was required. He also submitted that the

presence of "knowledge" as prescribed under Section 3 of the Act of the

offence having been committed is the sine qua non for the culpability of the

petitioner. 11. On the other hand, the Ld. Counsel for the Prosecution Shri Agarwal

strenuously contended that the investigation thus far reveals the crystal-clear

involvement of the petitioner in the "money trail" and in the offence of

"money laundering." There is sufficient materials/evidence on record which

discloses a prima facie case against the petitioner for commission of offence of

"money laundering." The petitioner has played a key role in masking the 9 tainted money as untainted hence a specific role is attributable to the

petitioner herein. Investigation so far has revealed that there is no written

agreement between M/s. Great Entertainments and M/s.Lemon Entertainment.

The contention of the petitioner that Rs.25 crores was transferred for the

purpose of production of a movie and for acquiring a satellite channel named

'Lemon TV' is an afterthought and an imaginary vehicle to cover up the

offence of money laundering. He further submitted that petitioner is alleged to

have been engaged in sham transfer of shares, which ex facie appears to be

bogus transactions. Curiously, no money was transferred to the account of the

original share holder i.e. Zaheer Ahmed. It appears quite absurd that when the

shares held by Zaheer Ahmed were claimed to have been transferred in the

name of one Shamshad Alam [Accused No.4 in C.M.C. (PMLA) No.47 of

2017], there was no reason for transfer of monies, therefore, to the account of

the company. The said transaction on first blush appears to defy good logic

but a closer scrutiny shows that the same is a well hatched conspiracy and an

act of symptomatic dishonesty. Again these 718854 shares have been stated to have been re-transferred to the

said Shamshad Alam from the account of Zaheer Ahmed as per resolution

dated 31.08.2009 and the entire 718854 shares were allegedly reverted back to

Zaheer Ahmed, the father of the present petitioner. However, the most self-

defeating and telling aspect of the matter is that the said Shamshad Alam vide

his statement dated 17.09.2018 recorded U/s. 50(2) and 50(3) of PMLA, 2002

has admitted that he had never purchased any share from M/s. Lemon

Entertainment Ltd. As no share had been transferred in the name of Shamshad

Alam to begin with, thus, the question of retransfer of shares to anyone 10 doesn't arise. The aforementioned statements not only defy common sense but

also points towards the culpability of the parties. If their own version is taken

to be believed, a reversal of the share purchase had taken place, in that event,

the sum of Rs. 2.5 Crores had not been paid back upon such a reversal of the

transaction. Instead, the same have been gleefully retained by the company in

question. The Ld. Counsel also submitted that the Petitioner has indulged in

the offence of "money laundering" which is a distinct and separate offence

compared to the "commission of a scheduled offence"under the PML Act .

Lastly, he contends that in view of Section 44(d) of the PML Act and Section

173(8) of the Cr.P.C, the prosecution was well within its rights to have filed a

subsequent complaint pursuant to further investigation. 12. Heard rival contentions of the parties, perhaps both sides in the argument,

who have probably overstated their cases. Yet, this sort of delinquency about

which society was almost ignorant or perhaps indifferent deserved a proper

factual presentation. It, prima facie, appears from a cursory look on the

evidence on record that dishonesty, untruth and greed has eroded the faith of

common investors. The multiple use of corporate vehicles as mentioned

hereinabove have exerted significant influence on the directors of M/s. Lemon

Entertainment Ltd. and their relatives, who are running Hamra Samay TV

News Network Pvt. Ltd., Ruby Buildwell Pvt. Ltd., Aliff TV Network Pvt.

Ltd., Lemon News Media Pvt. Ltd. and BPL Media Ltd. A close scrutiny of the

statement of bank account of Axis Bank A/c. No.0200010200044907 of M/s.

Lemon Entertainment Ltd. reveals that around Rs.14 crores has been

transferred to the accounts of M/s. Hamra Samay TV News Network Pvt. Ltd,

which in turn has transferred, approximately Rs.11 crores to the bank account 11 of M/s. Ruby Buildwell Pvt. Ltd. Further about Rs.2.75 crores have been

transferred to the bank account of M/s. Pal News Media Pvt. Ltd. Thus, the

amount appears to have been layered further after its placement which

constitutes an important stage of money laundering. 13. The bank account statement of M/s. Ruby Buildwell Pvt. Ltd. further

reveals that a self cheque bearing No.519851 was issued on 17.05.2010 from

A/c No.1579417 of ABN - AMRO Bank (now RBS Bank) and against this

cheque, cash of Rs.1.5 Crores was withdrawn under the signature of the

petitioner herein. Statements of accounts of M/s. Ruby Buildwell Pvt. Ltd. as

well as M/s. Pal News Media Pvt. Ltd also reveals that cash has been

withdrawn on several occasions through self cheques under the signatures of

the petitioner herein. Another telling aspect of the matter is that the petitioner

has stated categorically in a statement that he knew Wali Mohammad since

the last 15 to 20 years and that he was earlier working as an Ola Cab Driver

and subsequently upon joining the company he ascended to the post of a

director. This very statement makes it clear that the offending shell company

was virtually owned by the petitioner and his father who were running the

show and all the other directors were either sham or fictionalized. 14. The Petitioner, thus, prima facie seems to have a direct and active role in

laundering the tainted money generated from the aforestated scheduled

offence. In this context, the contention of the petitioner stating that there is

nothing to show that the accused is involved in either layering or in

integration in the offence of money laundering is completely phony,

gratuitous and a half-baked afterthought. There is specific and enough

evidence as mentioned in the Supplementary Complainant regarding the role 12 of the petitioner in the offence of money laundering. This court has also taken

note of the submission that the above seems to be a tip of the iceberg of

laundering of the tainted money, detected thus far. The matter is under

further investigation to ferret out the details of the trail of funds for

identifying any properties have been acquired out of the "proceeds of crime" 15. The Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 was passed in furtherance

of United Nations resolution (June 1998) to curb and deter economic offences.

The said Act came into force on 1st July, 2005 which is modeled after the

Criminal Justice Act of the United Kingdom, it imposes criminal liability on

those who know or suspect that someone is involved in laundering the

proceeds of crime and fail to report it. The act money laundering involves the

process of placement, layering and integration of "proceeds of crime" as

envisaged under Section 2 (u) of the Act, derived from criminal activity into

mainstream fiscal markets and transmuted into legitimate assets. It has been

realized globally that laundering of tainted money having its origins in large

scale economic crimes pose a solemn threat not only to the economic stability

of nations but also to their integrity and sovereignty. 16. Two types of offences have been contemplated under the PML Act :(a) the

actual commission of a scheduled offence which generates tainted wealth or

proceeds from the scheduled crime and (b) the laundering of the "proceeds of

crime" so generated. The Act , is amply clear, that even though a person may

not have actually committed a scheduled offence as provided under the Act

but upon subsequent participation in the laundering of such monies will 13 nonetheless render him culpable under the Act. Money Laundering is an

independent as well as continuing offence, which can be inferred from its very

definition under Section 2(p) of the Act. The offence is treated as continued

offence as long as accused remains in possession, causes concealment of the

nature of the money or continues to mask the tainted money as untainted.

Enforcement Directorate, is not investigating the Scheduled offences but the

offence of money laundering which is a distinct and separate offence

committed "after the commission" of Scheduled offence and which continues

to be committed as long as the possession, acquisition and the projection of

tainted money as untainted continues. 17. In the instant case, the petitioner has been in possession of the "proceeds of

crime" and it appears that he along with others have attempted to project the

same as untainted money by transferring the same to different bank accounts

in a bid to camouflage it and project it to be genuine transactions. The

contention of the petitioner in so far as the question of being a pre-existing

"knowledge" as per Section 3(b) of the Act and in order to be held culpable

under Section 4 of the Act, the same deserves to be rejected for the simple

reason that the question as to whether the accused had prior knowledge needs

to be culled out from the facts and circumstances of the case. Strong reliance

was placed by the petitioner on Joti Parshad v. State of Haryana2 which

renders a confirmatory view and fails to aid the petitioner. Even otherwise,

the use of the disjunctive "or" in Section 3 makes it clear that presence of

knowledge is not the only criteria making the accused culpable under the Act.

 2(1993) Supp 2 SCC 497. 18. Section 45 of the PML Act makes the offence of money laundering

cognizable and non-bailable and no person accused of an offence under PMLA

shall be released on bail or on his own bond unless the geminated conditions

therein are satisfied viz. (i) that the Public Prosecutor has been given an

opportunity to oppose the application for such release and (ii) where the

Public Prosecutor opposes the application, the court is satisfied that there are

"reasonable grounds for believing" that the accused is not guilty of such

offence and the accused is not likely to commit any offence while on bail. In

the case of Gautam Kundu vs. Manoj Kumar,3 the Supreme Court while

dealing with the issue has held as follows: 19. While deciding a bail application, the provisions of Section 45 read with

Section 24 which reverses the burden of proof and creates presumption of

 3(2015) 16 SCC 1. guilt required to be dislodged by the accused, will mandatorily apply. A

similar view of the matter has been reiterated in Rohit Tandon vs. Directorate

of Enforcement.4 It may further be held that the reliance placed by the

petitioner on Nikesh Tarachand Shah vs. Union of India5 is untenable in view

of the fact that Section 45 has been amended (by the Amendment Act 13 of

2018) whereby the original expression "imprisonment for a term of more than

three years under Part A of the Schedule"(pre-amendment) now stands

substituted by the expression "no person accused of an offence under this Act shall

be released on bail or on his own bond". Thus, the contention raised by the

petitioner with regard to Section 45 of the Act does not hold good. A similar

sentiment has been echoed by the apex court in P. Chidambaram v.

Directorate of Enforcement.6 20. The contention of the petitioner that the prosecution do not have the power

to file Supplementary Complaint does not find favour with this Court for the

reason that the power to conduct "further investigation"as envisaged in Section 173(8) of Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 relates to a police

investigation under Chapter XII of the Code. The said powers would extend to

the investigation of a crime in cases where investigations are conducted under

the special law, by any other agency under a special statute like the PML Act .

The word 'investigation' as defined in Section 2(h) of the Code

unambiguously comprehends to include an investigation conducted by "other

agencies" under other special statutes, has been succinctly held by the

Supreme Court of India in the case of Directorate of Enforcement vs. Deepak 4(2018) 11 SCC 46. 5(2018) 10 SCC 753. 6(2019) 9 SCC 24. Mahajan7 and S.R. Sukumar vs. S. Sunaad Raghuram.8 Thus , just like police

investigation, a supplementary charge-sheet is submitted after further

investigation. Similarly, the investigations under the PML Act , the

Enforcement Directorate will be well within its right to file a supplementary

complaint in case of fresh or for extracting any incriminating materials during

investigation. The power of "investigation" therefore is not limited to the

police under the Cr. PC. It is a fundamental feature of the prosecution as

found in a host of other special statutes like Foreign Exchange Regulation

Act,1973, Customs Act, Prevention of Food Adulteration Act. In the instant

case Enforcement Directorate has been endowed with the said necessary

powers. In fact, to bring a quietus to the issue, the Parliament has amended

Sub- Section 1 of Section 44(1) of the Act by way of an insertion9, the

explanation to the inserted reads as under: 7(1994) 3 SCC 440. 8(2015) 9 SCC 609. 9 Finance (No.2) Act 2019 No. 23 of 2019 dated 1.8.2019. Though this clarificatory explanation has come into force at a subsequent time

but it makes the issue clear and any submission to the contrary by the

Petitioner cannot be countenanced. In view of the judicial pronouncements

and the aforestated amendment to the Act it is clear that this issue is no longer

res intergra. 21. Another material fact which has been suppressed by the Petitioner herein

and which warrants a serious view of the Court is that the he had filed a bail

application before the learned Special Court (PMLA) on 25.11.2019 but the

District and Sessions Judge, Khurda rejected on 4.12.2019 returning a finding

that, materials on record disclose a prima facie case against the Petitioner for

commission of the offence of money laundering. The said order dated

4.12.2019 challenged by way of a Special Leave Petition10 before the Hon'ble

Supreme Court of India and suffered dismissal. Subsequently, the petitioner

filed another bail application before the learned Special Court (PMLA) on

19.12.2019 and an interim bail application on 23.12.2019. The learned Special

Court (PMLA) on 6.01.2020 rejected the interim bail application and on

22.01.2020 rejected the bail application with the finding that the said

successive bail application was filed on the health ground of the mother of the

Petitioner herein and the said ground was considered and rejected by the

learned Special Court (PMLA) in the earlier order dated 6.01.2020. The learned

Special Court (PMLA) also rejected yet another successive bail application

filed by the petitioner herein vide order dated 18.03.2020. This court takes a

serious exception to this and the Petitioner seems to be abusing the process of

law by indulging in forum shopping, without any material change in

 10Mohammad Arif v. Directorate of Enforcement SLP (Crl.) No. 804 of 2020. 18 circumstance, whatsoever, like a lottery ticket. Sometimes, the petitioner takes

the ground of the ill health of his mother and on other occasions, as in the

instant case, the ill health of his wife. 22. The offence of Money Laundering is nothing but an act of financial

terrorism that poses a serious threat not only to the financial system of the

country but also to the integrity and sovereignty of a nation. The International

Monetary Fund estimates that laundered money generates about $590 billion

to $1.5 trillion per year, which constitutes approximately two to five percent of

the world's gross domestic product. The Supreme Court of India has

consistently held that economic offences are sui generis in nature as they stifle

the delicate economic fabric of a society. These offences permeate to human

consciousness posing numerous questions on the very integrity of the

business world. The offences, such as this, are committed with a deliberate

design with an eye on personal profit and often shown to be given scant

regard for a sordid residuum left behind to be borne by the unfortunate

"starry eyed" petty investors. The perpetrators of such deviant "schemes," 23. The abuse of financial system, like in the instant case, has great potential to

negatively impact a country's macro economic performance and may also

adversely impact its cross-border externalities. Further, such actions by the

petitioner can inflict reputational damage of the country in the world of

business and commerce both inside the country and abroad. The act of 19 money laundering is done in an exotic fashion encompassing a series of

actions by the proverbial renting of credibility from the innocent investors.

The offenders often target the unsuspecting, rural and economically distressed

populations of our state who while hoping for a dreamy return, part with their

hard-earned monies. The Apex Court has taken a very serious view in cases

involving large scale white collar economic offences such as State of

Bihar vs. Amit Kumar,11 NimmagaddaPrasad vs. CBI12, CBI vs. Ramendu

Chattopadhyay,13 Seniors Fraud Investigation Office vs. NittinJohari,14 Y.S.

Jagan Mohan Reddy v. CBI,15 State of Gujarat vs. Mohanlal Jitamalji

Porwal,16 CBI vs. V. Vijay Sai Reddy,17 Subrata Chattoraj vs. Union of

India,18 Sanjay Chandra vs. CBI,19 Ram Narayan Popli vs.CBI,20 Manoranjana

Sinh vs. CBI,21 Union of India vs. Hassan Ali Khan22 which are relied upon. 24. The factors adversely affecting Petitioner's claim are that he has not

cooperated with the prosecution and has continuously avoided summons

issued to him by the Investigating officer for recording of his statement under Section 50(2) and 50(3) of the PML Action as many as 10 out of 11 times. The

prosecution is presently in the process of collation of further evidence in the

matter and identification of the proceeds of crime for attachment of the same

including the sum of Rs. 25 crores transferred to M/s Lemon Entertainment

which is it yet to be secured. Considering the past records, the possibility of

 11(2017) 13 SCC 751. 12(2013) 7 SCC 466. 13Crl Appeal. No. 1711 of 2019. 14(2019) 9 SCC 165. 15(2013) 7 SCC 439. 16(1987) 2 SCC 364. 172017 (13) SCC 751. 18(2014)8 SCC 768. 19(2012) 1 SCC 40. 20(2003) 3 SCC 641. 21(2017) 5 SCC 218. 22(2011) 10 SCC 235. the petitioner fleeing from justice, tampering with the evidence or influencing

the other witnesses whose statements are yet to be recorded, cannot be ruled

out. The prosecution is of a prima facie view that there is a strong reason

based upon cogent evidence in its possession to believe that the above-named

petitioner has directly as well as indirectly played a key role in the

process/activity connected with the laundering of the proceeds of crime. The

petitioner herein has not approached the court with clean hands and has

suppressed material facts regarding the rejection of his numerous bail

applications earlier by the courts. The alleged offence of money laundering

committed by the petitioner is serious in nature and the petitioner's role is not

unblemished. Further, the quantum of money involved in this fraud of epic

proportions which is designed to be a neo-mercantile swindling by way of

siphoning of public deposit in a tyrant fashion. 25. The issue of retrospective application of penal laws/scheduled offences

which has been vehemently raised by the petitioner, but for the purposes of

the instant application, the said issue need not be gone into, especially in view

of the materials on record which point towards prima facie involvement of the

petitioner herein and thus at this stage, what is required to be ascertained is

the question of the prima facie involvement of the petitioner in the light of Section 24 of the Act. There is no hard and fast rule regarding grant or refusal to grant bail. Each

case has to be considered on its facts and circumstances and on its own merits.

However, the discretion of the Court has to be exercised judiciously sans any

element of arbitrariness. Even if the "bail is the rule and jail is the exception" 26. Considering the aforesaid discussion, submissions made and taking into

account a holistic view of the facts and circumstances in instant case, this

Court is not inclined to release the accused Petitioner on bail. Accordingly, the

bail petition filed on behalf of the accused/petitioner stands rejected. It is,

however, clarified that the above observations shall not come in the way of a

fair trial before the Ld. Trial Court and it will proceed to decide the matter on

its own merits, uninfluenced by any of the observation made hereinabove.

The Bail Application under Section 439 Cr.P.C. and the connected I.A. are

accordingly dismissed. [S.K. PANIGRAHI,J.]

Orissa High Court, Cuttack. The13th day of July, 2020/AKP.