All these appeals are against a common order dated May 17,

2021 passed by the Adjudicating Officer (hereinafter referred to as

'AO') of Securities and Exchange Board of India (hereinafter referred

to as 'SEBI') imposing penalties on 12 out of 21 noticees. Out of 5 these 12 noticees, 8 of them have filed the present appeals, namely,

noticee nos. 1, 4, 7, 8, 9, 11, 13 and 15. 2. The facts leading to the filing of the present appeal is, that

Kamalakshi Finance Corporation Ltd. now known as Gromo Trade &

Consultancy Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as 'Gromo') is a listed

company since April 26, 1976. The trading was suspended with effect

from December 21, 2004 and the suspension was revoked on April 17,

2012. Thereafter, the company on November 9, 2013 issued

82,90,000 equity shares to 42 entities through preferential allotment at

the rate of Rs. 12/- per share. Again, on February 17, 2014, the

company issued 1,48,50,000 equity shares through preferential

allotment to 49 entities at the rate of Rs. 13/- per share and again on

June 24, 2014, 52,00,000 equity shares were allotted to 46 entities

through preferential allotment at the rate of Rs. 25 per share. Thus, a

total of 2,83,40,000 equity shares were allotted through preferential

allotment to 137 entities. 3. The record indicates that trading in the scrip started on

January 15, 2014 and between January 15, 2014 to December 26,

2014, the price of the scrip rose from Rs. 10.20 per share to Rs. 489/-

i.e. to say that there was an increase by 48 times. This sharp rise in

the price of the scrip was not supported by any fundamental financials. 6 Accordingly, an investigation was conducted which lead to the

issuance of an ex-parte ad-interim order dated February 20, 2015 and

consequently, the preferential allottees could not off-load their shares.

Subsequently, a show cause notice dated May 30, 2018 was issued

alleging that the company Gromo, its directors and promoters i. e.

noticee nos. 1, 2 and 3 were part of the manipulative scheme and were

in connivance with group of entities called the Kamalakshi group

which included the appellants except noticee nos. 15 who together

indulged in price manipulation of the scrip and thereby created false

and misleading appearance of trading. The show cause notice also

alleged that noticee nos. 15 had by himself indulged in price

manipulation by repeatedly placing buy orders at negligible quantities

at a higher price than the Last Traded Price (hereinafter referred to as

'LTP') causing an increase in the price of the scrip and misleading

appearance of trading. The show cause notice alleged that the

Kamalakshi group entities by trading among themselves had

contributed to gross market positive LTP by Rs. 101.35 and such

increase in the price of the scrip was manipulative. The show cause

notice also alleged that Pradeep Dhanuka noticee nos. 4 was the

central figure who was known to the company and who had received

funds from the company and also knew the Kamalakshi group and the

scheme was devised through which Dhanuka was placing orders 7 through other entities, namely, noticee nos. 7 and 8 by placing sell

orders in miniscule quantities which allowed the buyers to buy above

the LTP and, thus, the increase in the price of the scrip was not only

manipulative but also fraudulent. 4. It was also alleged that the company Gromo had not utilized

the proceeds from the preferential allotment of shares either for capital

expenditure or for long-term working capital requirements and had not

submitted the requisite information as required under Clause 43 of the

Listing Agreement. The show cause notice, thus, alleged the violation

of Regulations 3 and 4 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India

(Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices relating to

Securities Market) Regulations, 2003 (hereinafter referred to as

'PFUTP Regulations') and Section 21 of the Securities Contracts

(Regulation) Act, 1956 (hereinafter referred to as 'SCRA') read with

Clause 43 of the Listing Agreement. 5. The AO after considering the material evidence on record

held in paragraph no. 123 that there is insufficient material on record

to hold that noticee nos. 1, 2 and 3 i.e. the company, its directors and

promoters had connived with the Kamalakshi group entities who had

indulged in price manipulation of the scrip or created false and

misleading appearance in the trading of the scrip. The AO further 8 held that 12 noticees including the appellants were guilty in

manipulating the price of the scrip through their trades and had

created false and misleading appearance of trading which was

violative of Regulations 3 and 4 of the PFUTP Regulations read with Section 12A of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992

(hereinafter referred to as ' SEBI Act '). The AO also held that the

company did not make the requisite disclosures under Clause 43 of the

Listing Agreement and, therefore, violated the said provisions. The

AO accordingly imposed penalties of different amounts upon the

noticees. 6. We have heard Mr. Vikas Bengani, Mr. Manoj Kumar Mishra,

 Mr. Anant Upadhyay, Ms. Payal Upadhyay, Mr. Saurabh

 Bhachhawat, Mr. Shantibhushan Nirmal, Ms. Sneha Ramnathan, Mr.

 B. K. Rai, Mr. Dinesh Prakash Guchiya, the learned counsel for the

 appellants and Mr. Sumit Rai, the learned counsel with Mr. Abhiraj

 Arora, Mr. Shourya Tanay, Ms. Misbah Dada, Mr. Deepanshu

 Agarwal, the learned counsel for the respondent. 7. The company Gromo, noticee nos. 1 has been penalized with

 a sum of Rs. 5 lakh under Section 23E of the SCRA for violation of

 Clause 43 of the Listing Agreement. The object of the three

 preferential issues as depicted in the special resolution passed in the 9 Extra-Ordinary General Meeting (hereinafter referred to as 'EGM')

 of the company was to utilize the additional funds for capital

 expenditure including the acquisition of companies / business,

 funding long-term working capital requirements, etc. The company

 disclosed to its shareholders that the purpose of the funds raising

 through preferential allotments would be met for the following

 requirements, namely :- 8. The AO after considering the material evidence of record

came to the conclusion that necessary disclosure was not made and,

therefore, there was violation of Clause 43 of the Listing Agreement. 9. The contention of the company is, that the usage of the funds

was subsequently ratified by the EGM on September 29, 2017 and,

therefore, there has been no material deviation between the purpose

stated in the special resolution and the actual utilization of the funds

pursuant to the ratification. In support of their submission, the learned 10 counsel placed reliance upon a decision of this Tribunal in Terrascope

Ventures Ltd. vs. SEBI decided on June 2, 2022 in Appeal No. 116

of 2021 and other companion appeals wherein this Tribunal held as

under :- 10. In our view, the decision cited by the learned counsel for the

appellant is not applicable. The issue here is with regard to utilization

/ non-utilization which has not been reported under Clause 43 of the

Listing Agreement. The variation in the utilization of the proceeds

through ratification is a different matter which is not the consideration

in issue in as much as, the relevant issue is, whether adequate

disclosure was made under Clause 43 of the Listing Agreement at that

relevant time. We are further of the opinion that SEBI had passed an

ex-parte ad-interim order on February 20, 2015, as a result of which

the preferential allotees could not off-load their shares on the stock

exchange platform and, thus, there was a halt on a pump and dump

scheme so initiated by the company. The ratification made in 2017 11 much after the passing of the ad-interim order was purely an

afterthought. 11. Violation of the Listing Agreement attracts penalty under

Section 23A(a) of the SCRA wherein a penalty from Rs. 1 lakh to

Rs. 1 crore can be imposed. Penalty has been imposed under Section

23E which has no relevance to the violation of the Listing Agreement

as has been held in Suzlon Energy Ltd. & Anr. vs. SEBI Appeal No. 201 of 2018 decided on May 3, 2021. The penalty imposed under

Section 23E could be up to a maximum of Rs. 25 crore. 12. Considering the aforesaid, we are of the opinion that the

penalty under Section 23E of the SCRA could not be imposed and

could only be imposed under Section 23A(a) of the SCRA. In the

given circumstances, penalty of Rs. 5 lakh which has been imposed

under Section 23E should be read as a penalty imposed under Section

23A(a) of the SCRA. The quantum of penalty imposed in the given

circumstances is just and proper and does not require any

modification. 13. Noticee Nos. 4 Pradeep Dhanuka has been found to be a

central figure in the manipulation of the price of the scrip and in

creating artificial volume of trading and thereby misleading the

investors. The charge against Pradeep Dhanuka is, that he was a 12 director in M/s. Rupak Developers P. Ltd. and M/s. VRP Financial

Services P. Ltd. which companies received funds from Gromo and

these companies in which Pradeep Dhanuka was a director has also

transferred funds to the Kamalakshi group entities. It has come on

record that Pradeep Dhanuka was an employer of noticee nos. 7 and 8

and that he was placing orders from their trading accounts. 14. The contention of Pradeep Dhanuka before the AO and before

us is the same that he is not a beneficiary of the trades executed by

him and that he was employed by one Girraj Agrawal and that he was

executing the trades on his behalf. The said noticee denied that he

was connected with the company Gromo, its directors and promoters

and was also not connected with the Kamalakshi group. The said

appellant contended that he was only placing orders and was not

manipulating the price of the scrip. 15. Having heard the learned counsel and upon a perusal of the

impugned order, we find that Gromo transferred funds to companies

in which Pradeep Dhanuka noticee nos. 4 was a director and,

therefore, he was connected to the company. It has also come on

record and which are admitted by the said noticee that he had placed

orders from the demat account of noticee nos. 6, 7 and 8 and that he

was placing sell orders in small quantities. We find it strange as to 13 why sell orders were being placed in small quantities despite the fact

that large buy orders were pending. We also find that the appellant /

noticee nos. 4 was also connected to the Kamalakshi group entities

through off-market transfers and, therefore, it can safely be construed

that funds were received by Pradeep Dhanuka from the company and

also transferred funds to Kamalakshi group entities. The buyers who

were connected to Pradeep Dhanuka were placing orders above LTP

and Pradeep Dhanuka was selling shares in small quantities. This

trading pattern resulted in the increase in the price of the scrip and

created an artificial volume which, in turn, misled the public. Such

trading pattern was manipulative and fraudulent and violative of

Regulations 3 and 4 of the PFUTP Regulations. Thus, no relief can be

granted to noticee nos. 4. 16. The contention of the noticee nos. 7 and 8 is, that they were

employees of Pradeep Dhanuka who took signatures on pieces of

paper and misused their signatures. Whereas noticee nos. 7 has

categorically stated that she was not aware of any demat account being

opened nor was aware of any transaction and submitted that her

signatures were misused and on the other hand, noticee nos. 8 admits

that he was receiving Rs. 2,000/- per month for use of his demat

account. Both the noticees however contended that the trades were 14 negligible and they were only sellers and had no connection with the

company and, therefore, the penalty is excessive and arbitrary. 17. The AO has penalized noticee nos. 7 and 8 on the ground that

they were name lenders. Having perused the record and submissions

made by the counsel, we find that in so far as noticee nos. 8 is

concerned, we find that the finding of the AO that he was the name

lender was correct and justified. In Rahul H. Shah vs. SEBI Appeal

No. 83 of 2012 decided on May 11, 2012, this Tribunal held that name

lending is a fraudulent activity and is required to be curbed in order to

maintain the sanctity of the securities market. Consequently, there

was no error in the imposition of the penalty upon noticee nos. 8.

However, a specific stand was taken by noticee nos. 7 to the effect

that she was an employee of Pradeep Dhanuka who took signatures on

pieces of paper and that the appellant was not aware of any of the

transaction. This statement has not been disbelieved by the AO nor

any finding has been given to the contrary. There is no finding that

she was aware of transaction being carried out in her demat account.

Thus, we are satisfied that in the instant case, the said noticee cannot

be labeled as a name lender, especially in the absence of any evidence

to that effect. Until and unless there is a finding that the appellant was

aware that her demat account was being used or she had knowingly 15 allowed Pradeep Dhanuka to trade from her trading account, the

appellant cannot be penalized. 18. Noticee nos. 9 and 13 are husband and wife and they had

purchased shares of the company. Their contention is that they had no

connection with Dhanuka or with the promoters or with the company

Gromo. Similar is the case of the noticee nos. 11 who contended that

he had no connection with the company directors or the promoters nor

was part of the Kamalakshi group nor was connected to Pradeep

Dhanuka. The said noticee further contended that he was not involved

in any manipulation in the price of the scrip nor colluded with any

entity. 19. These appellants have denied their connection alleging that

they cannot be considered as a part of the Kamalakshi group. We find

that these noticees have been found to be directly or indirectly

connected to a common link, namely, Pradeep Dhanuka. Based on the

trading activity, it leads to an irresistible presumption of meeting of

minds outside the anonymous online screen based trading. Pradeep

Dhanuka was the seller, trading through trading accounts of noticee

nos. 7 and 8. The Kamalakshi group is connected to Pradeep Dhanuka

and its entities by way of off-market transfers in other scrips. 16 20. Vipul Doshi (noticee nos. 11) had off market transfers with

Romy Realty Pvt. Ltd. (of which wife of Mr. Pradeep Dhanuka was a

director). An attempt was made post initiation of investigation to

deny this connection by contending that the off-market transfer was

done "inadvertently". Such contention was rightly rejected as an

afterthought. 21. Mr. Vijay Tibrewal (noticee nos. 9) and Kavita Tibrewal

(noticee nos. 13), being husband and wife were shown to be connected

with Mr. Pradeep Dhanuka indirectly. They were shown to have off-

market transfer with an individual who, in turn, was shown to be

connected with a company which had common directors with

company where Mr. Dhanuka was a director. Mr. and Mrs. Tibrewal

had no explanation to offer in relation to this indirect connection and

concocted an obvious false story of having received the shares from a

stranger in a local train. 22. In Praveen Kurele and Anr. vs. SEBI in Appeal No. 319 of

2020 decided on April 29, 2022, this Tribunal held :- 23. Thus, Pradeep Dhanuka being the central figure was known to

the company and was also connected with these noticees nos. 9, 11

and 13. 24. The evidence clearly indicates that these buyers, namely,

noticee nos. 9, 11 and 13 were placing small quantities above LTP and

Pradeep Dhanuka was matching his trades by selling the resultant

trades increasing the price of the scrip which, in our opinion,

considering the trading pattern was manipulative and fraudulent. On

one hand, Pradeep Dhanuka was selling small quantities repeatedly in

illiquid stocks and executed trades with connected buyers who were

placing orders above LTP. Noticee nos. 9, 11 and 13, on the other

hand, were placing buy orders above LTP with connected sellers,

namely, Pradeep Dhanuka and its entities. 25. Thus, the trading pattern between Pradeep Dhanuka and

noticee nos. 9, 11 and 13 being repetitive established the intention to

manipulate the price and increase the volume. Such trading was

totally fraudulent and violative of Regulations 3 and 4 of the PFUTP

Regulations. 26. Noticee nos. 15, M/s. Ram Bhopal Agarwal Sons HUF has

been charged for manipulating the price of the scrip by placing small

quantities above LTP. The AO found that his trades contributed to

LTP and that he was repeatedly placing buy orders in small quantities. 27. The contention of noticee nos. 15 was that he had no

connection with the company Gromo and with Pradeep Dhanuka and

that he had only purchased 94 shares on the stock exchange platform

and had no connection with any of the counter party. 28. Having heard the learned counsel for the parties, we find

admittedly that noticee nos. 15 was an unconnected buyer and had no

connection with the company, its directors or promoters or with the

central figure Pradeep Dhanuka and its entities. In the absence of any

evidence showing connection with the counter party, we are of the

opinion that merely because the said noticee had placed buy orders

above LTP will not lead to a conclusion that the appellant was

manipulating the price and indulging in fraudulent trades. At best it

can only raise a suspicion. The finding against the appellant that the

said noticee can be penalized on his trading pattern is erroneous in the

absence of no connection with the counter party. The decision in the

case of M/s. Nishith M. Shah HUF vs. SEBI Appeal No. 97 of 2019

dated January 16, 2020 is squarely applicable. 29. In view of the aforesaid, the appeal of noticee nos. 1 Appeal

No. 658 of 2021, appeal of noticee nos. 4 being Appeal No. 87 of

2022, Appeal of noticee Nos. 8 being Appeal No. 481 of 2022, Appeal

No. 518 of 2021 of noticee nos. 9, Appeal No. 496 of 2021 of noticee

Nos. 11, Appeal No. 519 of 2021 of noticee Nos. 13 are dismissed

with no order as to costs. 30. Appeal of noticee nos. 7 being Appeal No. 131 of 2022 and

Appeal No. 580 of 2021 of noticee nos. 15 are allowed. The

impugned orders in so far as it relates to these noticees are quashed. 31. In the circumstances of the case, parties shall bear their own

costs. 32. This order will be digitally signed by the Private Secretary on

behalf of the bench and all concerned parties are directed to act on the

digitally signed copy of this order. Certified copy of this order is also

available from the Registry on payment of usual charges.