The petitioner herein is the director of A2, a registered company in C.C. No.

 554 of 2023, now pending for framing of charges before the Additional Chief

 Metropolitan Magistrate Court, Chennai. He is aged about 35 years and is a

 citizen of Seychelles, an east African country. He is stuck in India following a

 LOC issued by the CBI. 2. The petitioner was barely married for about a year, and was working in

 Singapore when he was implicated in this case. His parents are Indian citizens

 who reside in Malaysia, and his wife is a Malaysian citizen who continues to

 reside there. 2/14 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis W.P.No.24906 of 2024 3. In the present petition, the petitioner seeks the leave of this Court to visit his

 parents between 11.09.2024 and 11.10.2024 in Malaysia. He has pleaded that: He has also given an undertaking that he would return to India and abide by 3/14 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis W.P.No.24906 of 2024 such conditions which this court may impose. 4. The learned Prosecutor for CBI has filed his counter wherein it is alleged: 600 crores to the IDBI bank. He is a nephew of A12, who acted as the

 mastermind behind the diversion of the loan sanctioned by the IDBI

 bank to A1 company. (b) Article 21 of the Constitution cannot be expanded to include cases

 like that of the petitioner especially when the LOC was issued

 pursuant to such a huge economic fraud. If the petitioner is allowed to

 leave the country, there is a good chance that he will not return to

 India to comply with the formalities of investigation and to submit to

 the authority of the Courts, resulting in the loss of Rs. 600 crores to 4/14 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis W.P.No.24906 of 2024 the public at large. Therefore, the petitioner should not be permitted to

 leave the country. 5. Heard both sides. They stuck to their line of pleadings in their arguments.

 Should the petitioner be given the leave to travel abroad? Is it a case of , 'To be

 or not to be', but still not a Shakespearean dilemma, as the Constitution shows

 the way to this court for resolving it. 6. The investigation is now complete and the final report of the investigating

 agency has been laid before the Court. From now onwards, more than the CBI,

 the concern will be that of the Court to ensure that an accused person against

 whom a charge is framed or to be framed, but is allowed to travel abroad,

 returns to India, submit to our law and face the trial. 7. Somewhere in the course of his submissions, the counsel for the CBI

 submitted that there is no extradition treaty between India where the petitioner

 is likely to face trial in the eventuality of the trial court framing any charges

 against him, and Seychelles whose passport the petitioner holds. His

 apprehension cannot be discounted, but it should not be magnified either. After 5/14 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis W.P.No.24906 of 2024 all the petitioner had left the country twice earlier and had returned, and this

 previous conduct of his in complying with the conditions imposed on him by

 this Court cannot be overlooked. 8.1 Is a foreign national facing trial in India entitled to leave India temporarily

 and how far Article 21 secures the said right? The learned prosecutor says that Article 21 cannot be invoked where a foreign national is alleged to have been

 involved in a crime, and if at all any, it ought to be need based. The

 apprehension of the CBI is not complicated enough that it needs a decoding: the

 fear is that a foreign national might escape eternally. But then if a foreign

 national intends to escape, he still can make use of a need-based-leave for travel

 abroad as an opportunity to escape. 8.2 The anxiety of the criminal justice administration is, and at all times can be,

 only to ensure that the person charged with the commission of crime and facing

 trial for the charges in this country, submits to the jurisdiction of our courts and

 participates in the trial. It is, and at all times ought to be, least concerned how

 an accused person lives his life and does his or her business. Our criminal

 justice administration, nay even the criminal justice system developed by law 6/14 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis W.P.No.24906 of 2024 holds right to dignified life of even a convict supreme. In Sunil Batra Vs

 Delhi Administration (II ) [(1980) 3 SCC 488], it was held that a convict only

 loses his freedom of movement, but not his right to live with dignity, which Article 21 of the Constitution recognises as inhering in every human being

 living in this country – both nationals and foreigners alike. The objective to

 secure the presence of an accused for his participation in the trial and to under

 go any penal consequences in the eventuality of the Court upholding the

 charges, may not be construed as a licence to enable any interference with the

 private life of an accused. Criminal law is best administered when the

 inconvenience it leaves on the personal lives of the accused persons is least, lest

 the faith this country has on the Constitutional principles emanating from the

 judicial interpretation of Article 21 will be a rendered farcical. There can never

 be an insult to the Constitution and what it declares. 9. If Article 21 by its very wording applies to non-citizens, then right to

 personal life of any foreign national facing a criminal charge in India must also

 has be recognised as falling within his right to his dignified existence. Anything

 personal is part of one's privacy and unless it is enabled by law, it cannot be

 invaded, even if the accused person is a foreign national. See: K.S.Puttaswamy 7/14 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis W.P.No.24906 of 2024 Vs Union of India [(2017) 10 SCC 1]. 10. It could now be derived that right to travel abroad need not necessarily be

 need based. To reiterate, if the concern of the criminal justice administration is

 only to ensure the participation of the accused in a criminal proceeding, then

 law and its administration should focus only on that, and not on any other

 ancillary issues affecting the personal lives and privacy of accused persons. If

 not, we may end up converting the stay of a foreign national into a kind of

 house arrest in this country. That may not be an ideal way to understand the

 Constitution. Hypothetically, if after a couple of decades, a foreigner, accused

 of committing a crime in India, is acquitted, will the legal system recompense him of

 all that he has lost? More so, when a foreign national is not in judicial custody. 11. Right to travel abroad as forming an integral facet of the fundamental rights

 as declared under the Constitution has engaged the Courts in this country since

 few decades. Way back in 1966, a Full Bench of the Kerala High Court in Francis Manjooran Vs Government of India [AIR 1966 Ker 20] speaking

 through its Chief Justice M.S Menon observed that the freedom to travel has

 been part of the mystique of the freedom of man in the long and discontinuous 8/14 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis W.P.No.24906 of 2024 debate between him and his sovereign or political authority. The learned Chief

 Justice went on to say: 12. There is therefore, a compelling need to convert our ability to expand the

 right to life as a Constitutional theory into plain action. Be it our sense of

 appreciation or respect for application, we have one Constitution, and it must be

 respected. Therefore, more than deliberating on whether this Court should grant

 leave to the petitioner to leave the country temporarily, the question must be

 why this court should not grant the petitioner to travel abroad. 13. Having stated thus, this court is conscious that it shall not be overzealous in

 protecting the personal lives of foreign nationals (which include his or her right

 to travel abroad), without adequate mechanism to ensure his safe return to India

 for participating in the criminal proceedings. This essentially relates to the

 conditions which the court may have to impose, but it is underscored that it

 shall not be onerous and incapable of being complied with. 14. This Court therefore, allows this petition and grants him the leave to travel

 and stay in Malaysia for one month. In his affidavit, the petitioner states that 10/14 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis W.P.No.24906 of 2024 he wants to be away from India between 11.09.2024 and 11.10.2024. But that

 is least likely since this order is pronounced only today (10.09.2024).

 Therefore, the petitioner may have to provide a fresh schedule of his travel to

 Malaysia, and the period of one month will commence from the date on which

 he leaves India as per his revised schedule. The leave herein granted is

 subjected to following conditions: 14. With the above directions, the writ petition stands allowed. No costs. 10.09.2024

 Index : Yes / No
 Citation : Yes / No
 Speaking order / Non-speaking order
 ds
 To: https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis W.P.No.24906 of 2024 N.SESHASAYEE.J.,

 ds

 Pre-delivery order in W.P.No.24906 of 2024 10.09.2024 14/14 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis