Bank to lift the blanket debit freeze which was put on the petitioner's bank

account. According to the respondent Bank, the said action was taken

pursuant to a communication dated 4th March, 2022 from the Cyber Crime

Police, Telengana Police Department. The materials on record show that the

Telengana Police Department/Cyber Crime Hyderabad issued the

communication to the Bank on the basis of an alleged fraudulent transfer of

amount in an account. The letter does not give any particulars of the

alleged fraudulent act or the transfer details. The letter simply gives a table

of 47 account numbers under which the petitioner's account number is one

of such accounts. The materials on record show that one R Jhansirani made a

complaint on 28th February, 2022 to the Additional Chief Metropolitan

Magistrate at Hyderabad stating that the said complainant has been

blackmailed by several apps and rupee wallet companies for repayment of

the amounts taken from the companies failing which morphed photographs

and videos of the complainant would be circulated to the contacts of the

complainant. The complaint makes no reference to the petitioner. It is also

significant that the petitioner had refused a loan application of the

complainant on 20th January, 2022. This document is on record. Hence this Court is of the view that a debit freeze in the

petitioner's account and that too for an indefinite period of time which is not

supported by any evidence of wrongdoing cannot be allowed to continue.

The petitioner has suffered the consequence of a vague and uncorroborated

complaint made in February, 2022 without any corroborating material to

support such action taken against the petitioner. WPO/2898/2022 is accordingly allowed with a direction on the

respondent Bank to forthwith lift the debit freeze of the petitioner's account

as mentioned in paragraph 9 of the writ petition. The Bank shall carry out

the direction within 24 hours from the date of communication of this order. The writ petition is accordingly disposed of. (MOUSHUMI BHATTACHARYA, J.)

sg.