The Criminal Original Petition has been filed, invoking Section 482 Cr.P.C., seeking orders to direct the first respondent or to the appropriate

 agency to conduct investigation in Crime No.5 of 2023, on the file of the

 fourth respondent and complaints pending before the respondents 2, 3, 5

 and 6 on the said case as it involves serious white collar crime involving

 diversion of money as Crypto Currency which involves international

 transactions and affairs. 2. It is not in dispute that initially, District Crime Branch,

 Virudhunagar registered a case in Crime No.2 of 2023 on 15.01.2023 for

 the alleged offences under Sections 120(B) , 406 and 420 IPC and

 subsequently, the said case was transferred to the file of the fourth

 respondent/Economic Offence Wing, Virudhunagar vide proceedings of 3/10 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Crl.O.P.(MD)No.5459 of 2024 the Director General of Police, Chennai dated 19.06.2023 and that after

 receipt of the case file from District Crime Branch, Virudhunagar, the

 fourth respondent registered an FIR in Crime No.5 of 2023 on 11.09.2023. 3. The main contention of the petitioners is that the respondents 7 to

 13 had indulged and formulated a scam on the banner of Future

 Generation Capital Private Limited, in which, they have defrauded several

 public innocents and misappropriated their hard earned money, that the

 respondents 7 to 13 having committed such a big scam and having

 misappropriated such a huge amount from the mass public have

 conveniently converted all the crime proceeds into several immovable

 properties in the name of companies and in their names and in the names

 of their families and also in the name of several known benamis, that

 though case came to be registered by the fourth respondent, there was no

 proper progress in the investigation and that therefore the petitioners were

 constrained to file the above petition seeking direction to conduct the

 investigation by the first respondent or any other appropriate agencies as

 the case involves serious white collar crime involving diversion of money

 as cryptocurrency. 4/10 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Crl.O.P.(MD)No.5459 of 2024 4. The fourth respondent has filed a counter affidavit, wherein, it has

 been stated that originally there were 12 accused in the FIR and during

 investigation, they have added 19 more accused, that they came to know

 that Future Generation Capital Private Limited is a prime company and all

 other companies are the sisters concern of the said company, that they

 have searched 15 various places and offices belonging to the accused, that

 they have recovered 18 immovable properties and 5 movable properties,

 that the accused persons have invested part of the cheated amount in

 cryptocurrency like bitcoin, that since cryptocurrency and bitcoin are not

 regulated in our country, they could not be able to trace the money

 immediately, that they are taking necessary steps to trace the money

 invested in the cryptocurrency, that they are taking effective steps to

 secure the other absconding accused and had sent attachment proposals

 and approval was granted on 24.06.2024 and they will attach the

 properties under the TNPID Act and that since investigation is proceeding

 in proper way, the above petition is liable to be dismissed. 5. When the matter was taken up for hearing earlier, considering the

 submissions made by the learned counsel appearing for the petitioners and

 the learned Additional Public Prosecutor, this Court has directed the 5/10 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Crl.O.P.(MD)No.5459 of 2024 Superintendent of Police, EOW (South Zone) to file a status report. In

 pursuance of the same, the Superintendent of Police, EOW (North Zone),

 who is holding full additional charge of EOW (South Zone), has filed a

 status report. In the status report, it has been stated that their investigation

 reveals that money collected from the public was under various scheme

 which almost assuring higher rate of interest for the money deposited by

 them, that they came to know that 1180 persons have deposited huge

 amount of money which reached to the tune of Rs.122,13,23,823/- as per

 the bonds issued by the accused, which includes the assured higher rate of

 interest, that though there were 12 accused originally, they have added 19

 more accused, totally 31 accused, out of which, 12 accused are companies

 and other 19 accused are Managing Directors and Directors, that they have

 examined all the depositors and recorded their statement under Section

 161(3) Cr.P.C., that they have also sent one more attachment proposal for

 8 immovable properties and movable properties worth of Rs.1,15,57,298/-

 on 12.07.2024 and that they have already put on hold a sum of Rs.

 3,14,899/- by freezing 11 bank accounts of the accused besides identifying

 35 immovable properties to an extent of 152.9 acres of land worth about

 Rs.4,54,83,747/-. 6/10 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Crl.O.P.(MD)No.5459 of 2024 6. As rightly contended by the learned counsel appearing for the

 petitioners, since the reply given by the concerned police was not

 convincing, the Superintendent of Police, EOW (South Zone) was directed

 to appear and hence, the Superintendent of Police, EOW (North Zone),

 who is holding full additional charge for the post of the Superintendent of

 Police, EOW (South Zone), has appeared in person and filed the present

 status report. According to the prosecution, the accused 7 and 8 are the

 master minds but subsequently 8th accused was reported dead and that

 though the death of 8th accused was a setback in their investigation

 progress, the money laundering activities of the 7th accused between the

 inter-state and overseas level is a major setback. In the status report, it has

 been further stated that Financial Intelligence Unit of the Government of

 India has banned the performing of cryptocurrency trading in India in the

 month of September-2024 with a stipulation that the platforms which are

 willing to provide the data of the users to law enforcing agencies can

 perform their cryptocurrency trading, that they have been continuously

 enquiring the 7th accused and upon the disclosure he made, they have

 seized 4 hard disk and sent the same to the Forensic Lab through Court

 and are awaiting report, that they came to know that the 7th accused has 7/10 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Crl.O.P.(MD)No.5459 of 2024 used 4 email accounts for cryptocurrency trading, that they are entering

 into the digital domain of the 7th accused and on the way to crack his

 password which used for the purpose of exchange platform and that they

 are going to approach the cyber crime for conducting Cyber Audit and

 Fund Trail immediately after receiving the forensic report of the hard disk. 7. Considering the status report and the submission made by the

 learned Additional Public Prosecutor, the way in which, investigation is

 proceeding, cannot be found fault with. But at the same time, despite lapse

 of more than 22 months, they have not recovered the cheated and

 misappropriated amount substantially but the Superintendent of Police

 would submit that since fresh depositors are approaching them, they are

 not in a position to conclude the investigation. 8. Considering the above, this Court is of the view that the fourth

 respondent is to be directed to file a preliminary charge sheet within a

 period to be stipulated and to proceed with further investigation. Hence,

 the fourth respondent is directed to file a preliminary charge sheet within a

 period of three months from the date of receipt of a copy of this order and 8/10 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Crl.O.P.(MD)No.5459 of 2024 to proceed with further investigation and to complete the investigation at

 an earlier date. 9. With the above direction, this Criminal Original Petition stands

 disposed of. 29.11.2024
 NCC :yes/No
 Index :yes/No
 Internet:yes/No
 csm

 To 1.The Superintendent of Police,
 Ramanathapuram. 2.The Superintendent of Police,
 Madurai. 3.The Inspector of Police,
 Economic Offence Wing,
 Virudhunagar. 4.The Inspector of Police,
 Economic Offence Wing,
 Madurai. 5.The District Inspector of Police,
 District Crime Branch,
 Ramanathapuram. 6.The Additional Public Prosecutor,
 Madurai Bench of Madras High Court,
 Madurai. 9/10 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Crl.O.P.(MD)No.5459 of 2024 K.MURALI SHANKAR,J. csm

 Pre-Delivery Order made in Crl.O.P.(MD)No.5459 of 2024 Dated : 29.11.2024 10/10 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis