This Criminal Petition, under Sections 480 and 483 of the

Bharatiya 'Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023, has been filed by the

petitioner/A5, seeking bail, in Crime No.10/2025 of C.I.D. Police Station,

A.P. Mangalagiri. Q=- ~`3

 .......` I 2 2. A case has been registered against the petitioner and others for

the offences under Sections 318(4) , 308(2) , 351 (2) of B.N.S. 3. Case of the prosecution, in brief, is that, one Murali Mohan

Kadiyala submitted a report to the A.P CID Police by stating that his

daughter Midhula Kadiyala has been living in Bay Area, USA since

2006. Recently, .she was approached by an I'ndiVidual Via faCebOOk

messenger who started discussing crypto currency Investments. Initially,

she refused to engage, but after her first small investment, she received

a good return in her Bank account. Encouraged by this, she continued

investing larger amounts eventually totaling approximately 1.7 Million US

Dollars. AIong with report, all relevant documents submitted for

investigation. The scammer has been demanding 184000 US Dollars,

for which daughter of defacto complainant agreed to arrange in ongole,

India within a few days and he is able to collect money through his gang

members. Despite initial reluctance, the scammer agreed to accept the

amount in Ongole. The scam.mer has been threatening, blackmailing

and harassing the daughter of the defacto complainant daily warning her

that if she does not pay the amount, he would freeze her funds. The

daughter of the defacto complainant is a single mother and she is

currently very distressed and frightened. since the situation poses like

threatening risk to the daughter of '{he defacto complainant and his

family, he submitted the report to take legal action. Basing on the said

 rgs- - ft|

 I+a 3 report, a case in cr.No-.10/2025 u/ Secs.318(4) , 308(2) , 351(2) of BNS,

 2023 at A.P CID Police Station, Mangalagiri was registered on

 15.5.2025. On 21.5.2025, the Station House Officer of AP CID Police

 arrested Accused Nos.3 to 5 while receiving money from one Rambabu

 at H.P Petrol Bunk, Ongole and produced them before the court

I concerned for judicial remand. Since then the petitioner has been in

 judl'cial custody. 4. Heard Sri Posani Venkateswarlu, learned senior counsel

 appearing on behalf of Sri P.Sai Surya Teja, learned counsel for the

 petitioner and learned Assistant Public Prosecutor. Perused the record. 5. Learned Assistant Public Prosecutor submits that investigation is

 going on and some more witnesses are to be examined and prays to

 dismiss the Criminal Petition. 6. Going by the record, there are transactions between Al and the

 defacto complainant. ln connection with that, they are alleged to have

 met the petitioner herein. Going by the accusation contained in the

 remand report, the entire case rests on the confessional statement of Al

 insofar as the petitioner is concerned. -Absolutely, there is no dispute

 with regard to the fact that the confession of co-accused is not

 admissible in evidence. Learned Assistant Public Prosecutor submits

 that there is an allegation as per the confessional statement, insofar as

 c jfe>r- the petitl-oner is concerned. Except the confessional statement, there is

 no other material. The petitI-Oner Was arrested On 21.5.2025 and since

 then he is in judicial remand. since no accusation has been made

 against the petitioner, except the confessional statement of co-accused,

 this court is inclined to grant bail to the petI'tjOner herein, on the

 followI'ng conditions. 7. Accordingly, the CrimI|naI Petition is allowed. 1. The VI Additional Junior Civil Judge-Gum-Special Court for CID Cases,

 Guntur 2. The Superintendent, District Jail, Guntur / 3. The Station House Officer, CID PS, A.P., Mangalagiri 4. One CC to SRl. P SAI SURYA TEJAAdvocate [OPUC] 5. Two CCs to PUBLIC PROSECUTOR, High Court ofA.P[OUT] 6. One spare copy
 HIGH COURT

SRK,J

DATED:01/07/2025

BAIL ORDER CRLP.No.6214 of 2025 ALLOWED

 _ `.,. -I)``+.- `F¥_-PZRT~kK~pr, ^<u