JUSTICE J. M. MALIK,
PRESIDING MEMBER 1. The complainants Mr. Ram Kishan and his
wife Smt. Kailasho Devi, residents of Charkhi Dadri, opened various Fixed
Deposit Accounts on different dates in the year 1993 onwards. The Branch Manager, State Bank of Patiala,
Charkhi Dadri-OP-4 (in the original complaint) took their signatures on various
forms and other papers on the pretext of renewal of the FDRs. He did not issue the FDRs but issued the
pass book. They were informed that the
rules have since been changed, therefore, pass book was given to them. Thereafter, they approached the Bank to
renew the pass book time and again but it did not produce the desired
result. Then it transpired that their
amount was fraudulently misused by some bank officials by way of converting
their bank account into stock invest account. Moreover, when the OPs failed to
return the money of the complainants, legal notice was sent to them but it did
not ring the bell. Therefore, a
complaint under section 12 of the Consumer Protection Act 1986 was filed before
the District Forum. 2. The District Forum vide its order dated
31.07.2007 allowed the complaint and directed the OPs to pay the maturity value
of the FDRs as per details given in Para No. 2 of the complaint alongwith
interest @9% per annum from the date of maturity of each FDR till the date of
payment. It also awarded costs in the sum of Rs. 2,000/-. 3. Aggrieved by that order, the
petitioner preferred an appeal before the State Commission. The State Commission dismissed the Appeal
vide its order dated 26.07.2012. 4. We have heard the counsel for the
petitioner. He made the following
submissions. He argued that the
complainants had approached the Bank and opened various Fixed Deposit Account
for the purpose of Stock Investment. It
is explained that due to the downfall in the stock market, the investment of
the complainants eroded. It also came
to light that there was a scam in the Bank and FIR was lodged with the police
against Banks own officers on 20.06.1996. Banking Ombudsman examined all the material facts and dismissed the
complaint made by the complainants vide order dated 21.01.2000. The complainants filed a criminal
complaint. 5. Counsel for the petitioner vehemently
argued that the complainants had signed the various documents dated 27.07.1994
under the heading Payment of Stock Invests from my account NO. 286 This
document was signed by Smt. Kailasho Devi in Hindi language. It is apparent
that she could not write Hindi language properly. It was stressed that when the complainants signed the documents
with open eyes, therefore, they should not be permitted to jibe their previous
stand. We have perused the Photostat
copy of the complaint which also bears the signatures of the complainants in
Hindi language. It appears that both the
complainants are not aware of the English language. The learned counsel for the petitioner further laid emphasis on
the fact that this case is barred by time. It was argued that the FDR was opened in the year 1993 but the instant
complaint was filed on 23.11.2000. He
argued that the orders passed by the District Forum and State Commission are
perverse. The complaint should have
been filed within 2 years. 6. The last submission made by the counsel
for the petitioner was that Sh. Ramdhan
Goel, Special Assistant, State Bank of Patiala and Sh. Raghuvardayal Aggarwal,
Assistant Manager, State Bank of Patiala were convicted in a criminal case
under section 408/467/468/471/201 that is for the mis-appropriation of amount
and forgery etc. The counsel for the petitioner
vehemently argued that these persons were not convicted in respect of the case
in hand but they were convicted in the case of other three persons. 7. An attempt was made to louse up the real
issue. It is true that in the order of the Magistrate, there is no mention of
the complainants. Accounts of Sh. Hem
Raj, Smt. Basanti Devi, Sh. Krishan Lal were discussed. However, the judgment states that there were
as many as 47 cases. This is an
admitted fact the complainants also lodged complaint against the bank officials
bearing the same F.I.R. number. The
Magistrate was pleased to observe:- Auditor report in this case Ex. PW 6/A is valuable piece of evidence,
which clearly shows the complicity to both the accused in defrauding the bank
and modus operandi adopted by them to mis-use the public fund. 8. At the foot
of para No. 31 it was further observed:- This argument of ld. defence counsel is simply devoid of any force because
stock invests are to be required to be issued after filing denomination the
signature of the Incharge, who was accused Raghvar Dayal Aggarwal and those
were required to be signed by the account holders as well. 9. Although, the case of complainants was
not discussed in the said judgment, yet, it is clear that accounts of as many
as 47 persons were changed from FDR to stock invest accounts without their
consent. The District Forum observed:- 10. The case of the petitioner hinges upon an
application singed by Kailasho Devi in
Hindi language. The whole of documents are in English language. Same is the position with the signatures of
Ram Kishan. There is no evidence that
they were aware of English language. The other formalities were given the go-bye. The Bank cannot wash its hands of its responsibility. The attitude of Bank adds a shocking
dimension to the situation. The
commission of scam further shows the negligence and dereliction of duty on the
part of the higher authorities. By no
stretch of imagination it can be said that the case is time barred. The complainant has continuous cause of
action till they get their money back. We see no merit in the revision petition
and dismiss the same and impose punitive costs of Rs. 50,000/-, which will be
deposited with the Consumer Welfare Fund established by the Central Government
under Section 12 (3) read with Rule 10(a) of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 ,
of the Central Excise Act, 1944 , by way of demand draft in favour of P.A.O.,
Ministry of Consumer Affairs, payable at New Delhi, within 45 days from today,
otherwise it will carry interest @9% per annum till its realization. Learned Registrar of this Commission shall
see compliance of the order under Section 25 of the Consumer Protection Act,
1986. .. (J. M. MALIK,J.) 

 

 PRES IDING
MEMBER 

 

 

 

. (DR.S.M. KANTIKAR) 

 

MEMBER 

 

Jr/8