This is the first petition under Section 438 of Cr.P.C. for

grant of anticipatory bail to the petitioner in case FIR No.218 dated

24.08.2022, under Sections 406 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 and 120-B IPC,

registered at Police Station Ambala Sadar, District Ambala. 2. Learned counsel for the petitioner has submitted that no

transfer of any money has been made into the account of the present

petitioner. It is further submitted that after the partial investigation having

been done, it has not come on record that any money has been transferred

into the account of the present petitioner. It is also submitted that the

fraud in question has been committed by the Company Crypto World

Trading Company and the present petitioner is not a part of the said

 1 of 8 ::: Downloaded on - 02-10-2022 01:37:16 ::: CRM-M-42076-2022 -2- company. 3. Learned State counsel on the other hand has vehemently

opposed the present petition for anticipatory bail and has submitted that

the present petitioner is specifically named in the FIR being one of the

persons, who along with Tanuj Taneja, Vikas Kalra, Kapil Jaiswal, had

formed an association for the purpose of Crypto World Trade and have

duped innocent persons of an amount of Rs.320,98,86,000/- (Rupees

Three Hundred Twenty Crores, Ninety Eight Lakhs, Eighty Six

Thousands). A reference has been made by learned State counsel to the

status report filed by way of affidavit of Mr.Ramesh Kumar, Deputy

Superintendent of Police, Ambala dated 22.09.2022, in which it has been

stated in para No.16 that during investigation of the case, the complainant

had produced the pamphlet wherein, the petitioner along with other co-

persons, namely, Tarun Taneja, Kapil Jaiswar, Rameshwar and Ramesh

Kumar had been shown as contact persons to collect the money for

deposit in Crypto World Trading Co. It is further stated that the petitioner

was handling the office of Crypto World Trading Co., which had been

opened in the Amba Market, at Ambala Cantt. and as per the said

pamphlet, a promise had been made to the public that by depositing

money, the amount will be returned after doubling the same within 120

days and the responsibility regarding return of the money was also taken.

Further, during investigation even screen shots of photographs of the

present petitioner and other accused were also found showing that the

petitioner and other co-accused used to arrange parties in reputed hotels

for the purpose alluring the public at large for deposits to be made in the

 2 of 8 ::: Downloaded on - 02-10-2022 01:37:16 ::: CRM-M-42076-2022 -3- Crypto World Trading Co. with false assurances and thereby cheated the

complainant and the public at large. Reference has also been made to para

No.17 of the said affidavit, wherein, it has come out in the investigation

that petitioner along with his co-accused Kapil Jaiswar had opened an

office in the name of Janki Associates at Ambala Cantt where they used

to collect cash from the public at large and after the closer of website

"cryptoworld.net", the petitioner fled away after taking crores of rupees

from the complainant as well as from the public. In addition to the present

FIR, there are 50 complaints filed with respect to the fraud committed for

which the petitioner is also responsible and the said applications have

been received by the CIA Staff, Ambala City and the investigation in the

same is also pending. Further, during investigation it has also been found

that the petitioner and co-accused have prepared IDs of 1,10,247 persons

and thereby ended up collecting Rs.320,98,86,000/-. It is submitted that a

perusal of paras No.10 and 11 of the said reply would show that co-

accused Tarun Taneja as well as Rakesh Kumar were arrested and had

specifically named the present petitioner as one of the persons who was

also involved in duping the public at large. Reference has also been made

to the whatsapp chat which has been annexed alongwith the said reply

which clearly shows that the petitioner had invited the public to invest in

the Company and there are specific whatsapp messages from the mobile

phone of the petitioner in which it has been stated that the associated

persons were requested to join the celebrations and have a dinner party

for the achievements which had been achieved by the petitioner in the

Crypto World Trading as on that day. It is submitted that thus, it is prima

 3 of 8 ::: Downloaded on - 02-10-2022 01:37:16 ::: CRM-M-42076-2022 -4- facie apparent that the petitioner is involved in the entire gamut of the

fraud committed and plea of the petitioner that he has nothing to do with

the same, is false and incorrect. It is submitted that the custodial

interrogation of the petitioner is required to unearth the truth and to find

out the entire illegal racket weaved by the accused persons and also to

recover the money which the petitioner had duped from the complainant

and the public at large. 4. This Court has heard learned counsel for the parties and has

gone through the paper-book. 5. The present case is a case, in which, prima facie, a big fraud

has been played on the complainant and the public at large, as a result of

which, an exorbitant amount of Rs.320,98,86,000/- has been duped by the

petitioner along with other co-accused persons as per the preliminary

investigation made by the police. Paragraph No. 16 and 17 of the said

reply filed by the Deputy Superintendent of Police, Ambala are

reproduced herein below: - 6. A perusal of the above would show that it has been found out

during the preliminary investigation that the petitioner along with co-

accused Kapil Jaiswar had opened an office in the name of Janki

Associates at Ambala Cantt where the present petitioner and co-accused

Kapil Jaiwar used to collect the cash from the public at large and after

closer of website 'cryptoworld.net', the petitioner had fled away after

misappropriating the crores of rupees collected from the public at large.

It is stated that 50 complaints have been received by the CIA staff from

the Superintendent of Police, Ambala with respect to the fraud committed

qua investments in Crypto currency and the petitioner along with other

co-accused, had prepared IDs of 1,10,247 persons and thereby ended up

 5 of 8 ::: Downloaded on - 02-10-2022 01:37:16 ::: CRM-M-42076-2022 -6- collecting Rs.320,98,86,000/- by alluring the public at large. It has been

further found that in the pamphlets, the petitioner and other co-accused

Tarun Taneja, Kapil Jaiswar, Rameshwar and Ramesh Kumar have been

shown to be contact persons so as to collect the money for depositing in

Crypto World Trading Company. The petitioner is the contact person with

respect to the office of Crypto World Trading Company opened in the

Amba Market, Ambala Cantt. and an allurement had been given to the

public at large to get returns of about 2½ times within 120 days. A perusal

of the screen shots of the photographs of the petitioner along with other

co-accused, which have been found during preliminary investigation,

would show that they used to arrange parties in reputed hotels for the

purpose of alluring the public at large for depositing money in Crypto

World Trading. In paras No.10 and 11 of the said reply, it has been

specifically stated that co-accused Tarun Taneja as well as Ramesh

Kumar have disclosed that the present petitioner was one of the persons

involved in the commission of the crime in question. Whatsapp chat has

also been annexed along with the present reply and the said whatsapp chat

also prima facie shows the involvement of the petitioner. Some of the

messages sent from the phone of the petitioner are highlighted as under: - Pawan Sir Cheff: Congratulations to *Mr. Jitender Kashyap ji
 from Shahabad for 500$ id done* on the spot of *Great Leader Mr.

 6 of 8 ::: Downloaded on - 02-10-2022 01:37:16 ::: CRM-M-42076-2022 -7- Pawan Kumar ji Ambala Cantt*" 7. The aforesaid facts which have come about during the

preliminary investigation, prima facie, show the involvement of the

present petitioner in the entire fraud committed and the argument of

learned counsel for the petitioner to the effect that he has no link with

Crypto World Trading Company, thus, deserves to be rejected. The

custodial interrogation of the petitioner is necessary so as to unearth the

entire racket and to get information with respect to all the persons who

are involved in the same and to ascertain the modus operandi used by the

accused persons for duping the complainant and the public at large. 8. The petitioner has also been specifically named in the FIR

and even in the FIR, the complainant has specifically stated that one

Tarun Taneja had told the complainant that he had formed Crypto World

Trading Company in association with the present petitioner and other co-

accused. It has further been alleged in the FIR that when the crypto

software was not visible on the net, then, the complainant tried to get in

touch with the present petitioner along with other co-accused and the said

persons kept on lingering the matter. It is the case of the prosecution that

the petitioner has gone underground/in hiding ever since the time, the

scam in question has surfaced. 9. Keeping in view the abovesaid facts and circumstances, the

present petitioner does not deserve the concession of anticipatory bail and

thus, the present petition is dismissed. 7 of 8 ::: Downloaded on - 02-10-2022 01:37:16 ::: CRM-M-42076-2022 -8- 10. However, nothing stated above shall be construed as a final

expression of opinion on the merits of the case and the trial would

proceed independently of the observations made in the present case which

are only for the purpose of adjudicating the present petition.