I.A. 24359/2023 (application filed on behalf of the plaintiff seeking
 permission to place additional documents on record and recalling of
 plaintiff witness-1 ) 1. This is an application under Order XI Rule 1 and 5 read with Order
 XVIII Rule 17 and Section 151 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908
 [‗ CPC '] alongwith Section 138 of Indian Evidence Act, 1872 [‗Act of
 1872'] seeking permission to place additional documents on record and
 recalling of plaintiff witness no.1. 2. At the outset, it is pertinent to have a brief sojourn over the
 controversy involved in the lis. The instant civil suit has been filed by the
 plaintiff company seeking a decree for recovery of a sum of ₹4,46,50,000/-
 along with interest @ 18% p.a. against the defendant-M/s. Standard
 Chartered Bank which is located in London, United Kingdom with its
 branch office in Mumbai. 3. The plaintiff is a company registered under the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 and is dealing in the development, deployment and
 management of mobile and web-based solutions. The plaintiff claims to
 have the requisite skill, knowledge, experience and expertise in the field. 4. As per the plaint, in the year 2012, defendant no.1 through its branch
 office-defendant no.2, approached the plaintiff for the development and Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PRIYA Digitally Signed
Signing Date:13.02.2025 By:PURUSHAINDRA
17:27:57 2 KUMAR KAURAV
 management of a mobile application for catering to the online/M-commerce
 activities to be carried out by the defendants' credit and debit card
 customers. 5. The parties, after the exchange of certain correspondences, appear to
 have entered into an IT Professional Services Agreement dated 19.02.2013,
 whereby, the parties inter alia agreed, that the plaintiff would set up the
 infrastructure, collect data, develop and maintain the mobile application for
 the defendant no.1 on a review share model in accordance with the terms of
 the agreement. The mobile application was initially launched in the year
 2013, however, after two months, the defendants asked the plaintiff to take
 down the application from all application stores. Ever since, certain disputes
 have arisen between the parties entailing them in exchange of various
 communications through e-mails etc. 6. The plaintiff claims to have suffered the loss of capital and resources,
 and a legal notice dated 15.04.2015 was served upon the defendants to pay a
 sum of ₹4,46,50,000/-. The defendants replied to the same on 15.05.2015
 and refuted the claim raised by the plaintiff. The plaintiff, thus, instituted the
 instant civil suit in the year 2015. 7. After the completion of pleadings, the issues were framed on
 16.11.2016 and evidence was commenced. On 07.08.2023, plaintiff witness
 No.1-Shri Sunil Jasuja completed his deposition. Thereafter, on 18.11.2023,
 the instant I.A. 24359/2023 came to be filed by the plaintiff. 8. By way of the instant application, the plaintiff seeks to bring on
 record three sets of documents i.e., (i) e-mails exchanged between the
 plaintiff and defendants, (ii) the copy of the agreements entered between the
 plaintiff company and other vendors and (iii) backend data stored in servers. 9. Mr. Sudhir Nandrajog, learned senior counsel, assisted by Mr.
 Abhimanyu Garg learned counsels, appearing on behalf of the plaintiff,
 submits that the instant application seeks to place on record the documents
 which are necessary in the interest of justice for a fair adjudication of the lis
 between the parties. He submits that additional e-mails that are sought to be
 placed on record as mentioned in Schedule A of the application, are either
 the trail mails of already exhibited e-mails by the plaintiff or the e-mails in
 response to the queries put forth by the defendants during the development
 of the mobile platform. According to him, those documents could not be
 placed on record earlier before this Court due to various reasons, which were
 mostly inadvertent and beyond the control of the plaintiff. The electronic
 records and data have been generated/ created across different platforms
 (email/application, stores, servers) and different formats (excel sheets,
 images/ documents, HTML, code files etc.). Further, it encompasses a wide
 timeline starting from the negotiation stage, prior to execution of the
 contract, to discussions on the scope of work of parties, followed by the
 correspondences between the parties for the execution of the agreement, and
 finally, the communications leading up to the dispute between the parties.
 He further submits that the quantum of e-mails exchanged between the
 parties is voluminous and difficult to keep track of, thus, they could not be
 filed at the time of presentation of the plaint. 10. In order to substantiate his submissions, learned senior counsel
 submits that the plaintiff is not setting up a new case and the Court should be
 lenient in allowing such an application, reserving the rights of the
 defendants to refute the veracity of those documents. He places reliance on a
 decision of this Court in the case of Iffco Tokio General Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Inder Travesls (P) Ltd.1, Roots Cooling System (P) Ltd. v. Bipin Kumar
 Gupta2 and a decision of Andhra Pradesh High Court in Penumatsa Anil
 Kumar v. State of A.P.3 . 11. Learned senior counsel further submits that in the case of Penumatsa
 Anil Kumar of Andhra Pradesh High Court, even after the examination of
 one of the witnesses by the plaintiff, such an application was allowed and,
 thus on the force of the said decision , he submits that the tools of procedure
 which are essentially the handmaiden of justice, should not come in the way
 of achieving the ultimate goal of justice and accordingly, subject to
 conditions, the instant application can be allowed. 12. Per contra, Mr. Ateev Mathur alongwith Mr. Amol Sharma, learned
 counsel appearing for the defendants, while opposing the application,
 submits that the suit itself was filed in the year 2015 and all these e-mails
 which were allegedly exchanged inter se parties were in the possession of
 the plaintiff since inception. On the force of said assertion, he submits that
 no reasonable cause has been established as to why the documents were not
 filed at the time of presentation of the plaint. 13. He further submits that even the issues were framed on 16.11.2016
 and the plaintiff filed its first affidavit of evidence on 18.01.2017. The said
 affidavit was found to be defective and vide order dated 02.08.2017, the
 plaintiff was directed to file a fresh affidavit. 14. He also points out that in interregnum, the plaintiff filed
 I.A.12696/2017 seeking to place additional documents on record which,
 despite opposition, was allowed by the Joint Registrar on 30.01.2018 1 2024 SCC OnLine Del 5192. 2023 SCC OnLine Del 5507. 2024 SCC OnLine AP 5533. permitting those documents to be taken on record subject to the payment of
 a cost of ₹10,000/-. He points out that similar reasons were assigned in the
 said application as well for the non-production of documents along with the
 plaint. 15. He further points out that the plaintiff was examined and cross-
 examined on various dates before the Local Commissioner and finally, the
 cross-examination was concluded on 09.05.2023. He submits that since then,
 the plaintiff has been unable to produce the second witness and realised that
 in the evidence of PW1, there were serious lacunas, therefore, in order to fill
 up those lacunas, the plaintiff has filed the instant application and that too at
 a point, when the defendants have already opened their defence. 16. To buttress his submissions, he has placed reliance on the case of Zee
 Entertainment Enterprises Ltd. v. Saregama India Ltd.4 and has contended
 that the use of the word ‗establishing' conveys that there should be
 something more than a mere explanation for the non-production of
 documents along with the plaint. 17. I have learned counsel appearing on behalf of the parties and have
 perused the record. 18. Before adverting to the merits of the case, at the outset, it deserves to
 be noticed that the instant civil suit was filed in the year 2015 as an ordinary
 civil suit which was governed by the provisions of the CPC . However, with
 the advent of the Commercial Courts Act, 2015 [‗Act of 2015'], which came
 into force on 23.10.2015, the Parliament provided for the constitution of
 Commercial Courts (Commercial Appellate Courts), Commercial Division
 and Commercial Appellate Division in the High Courts for adjudicating 4 2019 SCC OnLine Del 10215. commercial disputes of specified value and matters connected therewith or
 incidental thereto. Driving home the contours of bonafide objective of Act of 2015 19. The purpose for enacting the Act of 2015 finds a place in the 188th
 Report of the Law Commission in 2003, wherein, the Law Commission
 recorded that: 20. In the said report, it was acknowledged that, in order to foster
 confidence among both foreign and domestic investors, there was an urgent
 need for Parliament to establish a mechanism for the swift resolution of
 high-value commercial disputes. This was seen as essential to align India's
 judicial system with that of other developed economies, such as the United
 States, the United Kingdom and Singapore. 21. In its 253rd Report, the Law Commission of India noted that, as of Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PRIYA Digitally Signed
Signing Date:13.02.2025 By:PURUSHAINDRA
17:27:57 7 KUMAR KAURAV
 December 31, 2013, over 32,656 civil disputes were pending in the five
 High Courts with ordinary original jurisdiction--Bombay, Delhi, Madras,
 Calcutta, and Himachal Pradesh. Of these, more than half were commercial
 disputes. The Law Commission expressed concern that such a high volume
 of unresolved cases could discourage both domestic and foreign
 investments, and it recommended the following measures to address this
 issue:- 22. Thus, the primary aim and object of the Act of 2015, as can be
 discerned from its Statement of Objects and Reasons, is to provide for
 speedy disposal of high value commercial disputes in order to reduce the
 pendency of cases as well as to induce greater confidence in the adjudicatory
 process. The relevant portion of the Statement of Objects and Reasons reads
 as under:- Vide separate order pronounced in the open court, I.A No.
 12696/2017 moved by the plaintiff is allowed. The defendants are directed to file their admission/denial affidavits
 in terms of The Commercial Courts, Commercial Division and
 Commercial Appellate Division of High Courts Act, 2015 within two
 weeks from today with copy to the opposite side. Relist for admission/denial of documents on 20.03.2018.‖ 26. Section 15 of the Act of 2015 envisages the procedure qua transfer of
 pending cases, which inter alia provides for the applicability of the
 provisions of the Act of 2015 to all such procedures that were not complete
 at the time of transfer. Effect of the provisions of CPC vis-a-vis the Act of 2015 on pending
 matters 27. At this juncture, it is pertinent to sail through various precedents on
 the transitional interplay of the provisions of CPC vis-a-vis the Act of 2015
 in relation to the conversion of the suits in the interregnum. This Court in the
 case of Dish TV India Ltd. v. Gulf DTH FZ LLC5 , after perusing the
 scheme of the Act of 2015 and CPC , held that after the conversion of the
 suit to a ―commercial suit‖, provisions of the Act of 2015 will apply. The
 relevant extracts of the said decision read as under:- 28. In the case of Nirman Consultants (P) Ltd. v. NNE Ltd.6 , this Court
 analysed the scheme of Section 15 of the Act of 2015 and held that the use
 of the word ‗shall' leaves no room for any doubt that in such a case, the
 provisions of the Act of 2015 will apply to procedures that did not culminate
 at the time of transfer. Furthermore, it was held that in case the application
 in any suit is instituted or an order is passed prior to coming into force of the
 Act of 2015 and more specifically, prior to the suit being converted into a
 commercial suit, Section 13 of the Act of 2015 would not apply. However,
 when the suit has been converted into a commercial suit, any order passed or 6 2019 SCC OnLine Del 11088. any application filed subsequently, would be governed by the Act of 2015.
 The relevant extracts of the said decision read as follows:- 29. The Calcutta High Court as well in the case of Rashmi Metaliks
 Limited v. Soneko Marketing (P) Limited7 has held that once the suit is
 converted to as a commercial suit, then the provisions of the commercial suit
 will apply. The relevant extract of the said case reads as under:- 30. Furthermore, the Supreme Court in Smt. Dayawati v. Inderjit8 ,
 observed that unlike substantive laws, procedural laws are always applied
 retrospectively. Emphasis was thus laid on the language of the new law. It
 was held that if the new law, through its language, displays an intention to
 be applied on even pending matters, then such a law shall be applicable for
 matters pending before the court of trial as well as the court of Appeal. 31. The Supreme Court in the case of Hitendra Vishnu Thakur v. State 7 2013 SCC OnLine Cal 1790. AIR 1966 SC 1423. of Maharashtra9, observed that a procedural statute, which is generally
 applicable in a retrospective manner, would be applied prospectively only
 when the result of its application creates new disabilities, obligations or
 imposes new duties in respect of transactions already accomplished. The law
 relating to forum and limitation was held to be procedural in nature. 32. Thus, it is palpably evident that after the advent of the Act of 2015,
 the steps, which had already culminated before the conversion of the suit
 into a commercial suit, were saved by the operation of law. However,
 subsequent to such conversion, all other proceedings of the commercial suit
 shall be governed by the provisions of the Act of 2015. Even otherwise, the
 timeline and other provisions of the Act of 2015 are procedural aspects and
 thus, they shall govern the pending causes. In view of the aforesaid, it leaves
 no room for doubt that the instant application will be governed by the
 rigours of the Act of 2015 as the same was commenced afresh after the
 operation of the Act of 2015. Nevertheless, it would be apposite to have a
 brief overview of the changes brought about by the Act of 2015 in the CPC ,
 insofar as its provisions related to commercial disputes are concerned. 33. Chapter VI of the Act of 2015 seeks to amend the CPC , in so far as its
 application to commercial disputes is concerned, and in the manner as
 specified in the Schedule to the Act of 2015. 34. Clause 4 of the Schedule of the Act of 2015 amends the First
 Schedule to the CPC . Sub-clause E of Clause 4 of the Schedule to the Act of
 2015 substitutes Order XI of the CPC . Substituted Order XI by way of the
 Act of 2015 provides inter alia for disclosure, discovery and inspection of
 the documents in suits before the Commercial Division of a High Court or a 9 (1994) 4 SCC 602. 35. Order XI Rule 1 of the Act of 2015 contemplates the filing of a list of
 all such documents pertaining to the suit and photocopies thereof by the
 plaintiff which are in its powers, possession, control or custody along with
 the plaint. The provision includes documents referred to and relied on by the
 plaintiff in the plaint and documents relating to any matter in the
 proceedings, which are in the power, possession, control or custody of the
 plaintiff, as on the date of filing of the plaint, irrespective of whether the
 same is in support of or adverse to the plaintiff's case. Furthermore, sub-rule
 3 of Order XI Rule 1 states that the plaint shall contain a declaration on oath
 from the plaintiff that all documents in the power, possession, control or
 custody of the plaintiff, pertaining to the facts and circumstances of the
 proceedings initiated by him, have been disclosed and copies thereof
 annexed with the plaint, and that the plaintiff does not have any other
 documents in its power, possession, control or custody. 36. Sub-rule 4 of Order XI Rule 1 of the Act of 2015, however, provides
 that in case of urgent filings, the plaintiff may seek leave to rely on
 additional documents, as part of the above declaration on oath and subject to
 the grant of such leave by Court, the plaintiff shall file such additional
 documents in Court, within thirty days of filing the suit, along with a
 declaration on oath that the plaintiff has produced all documents in its
 power, possession, control or custody, pertaining to the facts and
 circumstances of the proceedings initiated by the him and he does not have
 any other documents, in its power, possession, control or custody. 37. Sub-rule 5 of Order XI Rule 1 of the Act of 2015, which is of
 fundamental relevance to the present controversy, is a prohibitory provision Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PRIYA Digitally Signed
Signing Date:13.02.2025 By:PURUSHAINDRA
17:27:57 15 KUMAR KAURAV
 that prohibits relying upon documents that were in the plaintiff's power,
 possession, control or custody and not disclosed along with the plaint or
 within the extended period set out in the scheme of Order XI, save and
 except by leave of Court and such leave shall be granted only upon the
 plaintiff establishing reasonable cause for non-disclosure along with the
 plaint. Delineating the ambit of Order XI Rule 1(5) 38. For the sake of convenience, Order XI of the CPC , as applicable to
 commercial disputes, reads as under:- 39. A bare perusal of sub-rule 5 of Order XI Rule 1 of the Act of 2015
 elucidates that additional documents, which were in the plaintiff's power,
 possession, control or custody and not disclosed along with the plaint or
 within the extended period set out in the scheme of Order XI, can be taken
 into consideration only upon the plaintiff establishing reasonable cause for
 non-disclosure along with the plaint. Thus, the same is not a matter of right
 rather it is incumbent upon the conditional requirement of the standard
 culled out in the provision. 40. The Supreme Court in the case of Sudhir Kumar v. Vinay Kumar
 G.B.10 , while analysing the provisions of Order XI CPC , held that for
 additional documents to be taken on record that was in the plaintiff's power,
 possession, control or custody at the time when the plaint was filed, the
 plaintiff has to satisfy and establish a reasonable cause for non-disclosure
 along with plaint. However, at the same time, the requirement of
 establishing the reasonable cause for non-disclosure of the documents along
 with the plaint shall not be applicable if it is the case of the plaintiff that
 those documents have been found subsequently and in fact were not in the
 plaintiff's power, possession, control or custody at the time when the plaint
 was filed. It was further held that at the stage of granting leave to place on
 record additional documents, the Court is not required to consider the
 genuineness of the documents/additional documents, as the concern of
 genuineness of the documents is to be considered during the trial and/or at
 the stage of deciding the application under Order XXXIX Rule 1 that too 10 (2021) 13 SCC 71. while considering prima facie case. The relevant extracts of the said
 decision read as under:- 41. In the case of Nitin Gupta v. Texmaco Infrastructure & Holding
 Ltd.11 , this Court held that unless the Commercial Divisions start enforcing
 the Rules legislated for commercial suits and refuse to entertain applications
 for late filing of documents, especially with respect to documents of
 suspicious character, and continue to show leniency in the name of ―interest
 of justice‖ and ―a litigant ought not to suffer for default of advocate‖, the
 commercial suits would suffer from the same malady with which the
 ordinary suits have come to suffer and owing thereto, the need for the
 implementation of the Act of 2015 in its true letter and spirit was felt
 imminent. It was further held that for a plaintiff to be entitled to leave of the
 Court under Order XI Rule 1(5) of the CPC for belatedly filing a document,
 it is essential for the plaintiff to not only plead but ―establish‖ ―reasonable
 cause for non-disclosure along with the plaint. It is noteworthy that the 11 2019 SCC OnLine Del 8367. provision not only puts a strict burden upon the plaintiff but also encircles
 the discretionary power of the Court and renders it subject to the fulfilment
 of certain conditions, that too on the basis of cogent material revealing
 sufficient cause. 42. In Zee Entertainment Enterprises, this Court noted the embargo
 imposed on the discretionary power of the Court under Order XI Rule 1(5)
 and held that the said embargo placed on the Court can be lifted only upon
 the plaintiff establishing reasonable cause for non-disclosure along with the
 plaint. The use of the word ―establishing‖ conveys that there should be
 something more than a mere explanation for non-production along with
 plaint, amounting to proof of the explanation. Furthermore, the Court also
 noted that the requirement of declaration on oath qua the documents in a
 commercial suit is not an empty formality. It requires detailed tabulation of a
 list of documents and thus, preparation of such a list leaves no room for any
 ‗inadvertent errors'. The relevant extracts of the said decision read as
 under:- 43. In the case of Hassad Food Company Q.S.C. v. Bank of India12 it
 was held that the language used in sub-rule (5) is that the plaintiff is required
 to show ‗a reasonable cause' and not a ‗sufficient cause' as is ordinarily
 provided in other provisions. It was further held that sub-rule (5) of Rule 1
 of Order XI of the Act of 2015 uses the phrase ―reasonable cause‖ which
 would require even a lower degree of proof as compared to ―good cause‖.
 The relevant extracts of the said case read as under:- 44. In the case of Rishi Raj v. Saregama India Ltd.13 , the mere
 inadvertence does not make up a reasonable cause as provided in Order XI
 Rule 1(5). This Court in the case of Bela Creation Pvt. Ltd v. Anuj
 Textiles14 , dealt with the rigours of Order XI Rule 1(10), wherein, a similar
 embargo is placed upon the defendant, whereby, the defendant is allowed to
 rely on documents that were in his power, possession, control or custody and
 not disclosed along with the written statement or counterclaim, save and
 except by leave of Court and such leave shall be granted only upon the
 defendant establishing reasonable cause for non-disclosure along with the
 written statement or counterclaim. The Court while dealing with the ambit
 of the ―reasonable cause‖ held as under:- 45. This Court in the case of TTK Prestige Limited vs. Baghla
 Sanitaryware Private Limited & Ors. in CS(COMM) 281/2021 has
 extensively considered the scheme of the Act of 2015 and has thus held in
 paragraph no.17 thereof, as under:- 46. Furthermore, this Court in the case of Louis Dreyfus Company India
 Pvt. Ltd. v. Nutrilite Agro Products Pvt. Ltd. in CS(COMM) 538/2020 vide Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PRIYA Digitally Signed
Signing Date:13.02.2025 By:PURUSHAINDRA
17:27:57 25 KUMAR KAURAV
 order dated 04.02.2025, while considering the similar application under
 Order XI Rule 1(5) CPC held that the purported reasons like ‗change of
 counsels', ‗advice of Registry' or ‗bona fide belief' that those documents
 were in record of the Court, could not muster up the courage to cross the
 hurdle of ‗reasonable cause' as envisaged under the provisions of Order XI
 Rule 1(5) CPC . The Court further observed that it is high time that
 commercial courts need to understand and realize the bonafide aim and true
 spirit of the legislature and instead of being mired in the web of frivolous
 applications supported by feeble grounds rather they should be a potent
 weapon for the speedy resolution of high-value commercial disputes as
 envisaged by the legislature. 47. Needless to state that the fundamental pre-requisite of establishing
 reasonable cause under Order XI would not be applicable to the documents
 which were not in possession of the plaintiff at the time of the presentation
 of the plaint. For the documents, which were discovered subsequently, the
 test is different and less stringent. The Supreme Court in the case of Sudhir
 Balyan clearly enunciated that the rigour of establishing the reasonable
 cause in non-disclosure of documents along with plaint may not arise in the
 case where the additional documents sought to be produced/relied upon are
 discovered subsequent to the filing of the plaint. 48. Thus, on the edifice of the judicial pronouncements as exposited
 above, the position of law revolving around Order XI as applicable to
 commercial disputes could be summarized as below postulates: 49. Thus, on the anvil of the above postulates of law, this Court shall now
 examine the instant application. 50. No doubt, in the instant case, the suit was filed before coming into
 force of the provision of the Act of 2015, however, the suit stood converted
 as a commercial suit on 30.01.2018 and, thereafter, as already established Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PRIYA Digitally Signed
Signing Date:13.02.2025 By:PURUSHAINDRA
17:27:57 28 KUMAR KAURAV
 above, the plaintiff cannot escape from the rigours of the strict timeline
 envisaged under the Act of 2015. It is equally relevant to point out that this
 is not the first time that the plaintiff has moved such an application. On an
 earlier occasion as well, an application was filed by the plaintiff to introduce
 additional documents. On 30.01.2018, it was allowed by the Joint Registrar
 subject to payment of cost of ₹10,000/-. The order dated 30.01.2018 reads as
 under:- On the other hand, it is stated by the defendant that it had already
 paid the due amount to plaintiff. (ii) The plaintiff has relied upon the judgments, tilted Harnarayan
 Sharma v. Paras Vaid (2015) High Court Cases (Chh) 262 &
 Kapii Kumar Sharma v. Lalit Kumar Sharma & Anr. (2013) 14
 SCC 612. (iii) The defendant has relied upon the judgment titled Asia Pacific
 Breweries v. Superior Industries , 2009 (109) DRJ 497. (iv) As far as the law laid down in these judgements are concerned,
 the superior courts have laid down that if the documents are
 essential for resolution of the disputes before the court, they can be
 taken on record and thus no prejudice is caused to the other party.
 Moreover, when the evidence is yet to commence, the documents
 can be taken on record. 5. From the perusal of the documents relied upon by the plaintiff in the
 present application, it appears that they will throw light to the controversy
 and aid in the proper decision of the matter. In these circumstances, these
 documents can be taken on record and the delay caused to the defendant
 can be compensated by way of cost. Accordingly, the application is
 allowed. The documents of the plaintiff are taken on record subject to cost
 of Rs. 10,000/- which shall be paid to the defendant through Counsel.‖ 51. This Court has perused the contents of the said application as well and
 if the earlier application is compared with the present one, it would manifest
 that both these applications are on a similar footing and reveal the same
 rationale for not placing on record the additional documents. For the sake of
 convenience, the grounds of delay as meticulously drafted in those
 applications are reproduced herein:- than a thousand pages spanning from Furthermore, most of the emails sought to
 the year 2012 to 2015, these said be filed by the Plaintiff are sent by
 additional documents were inadvertently Authorized Representatives of the
 left out. Defendant Bank, which even the Defendant
 Bank was required to disclose along with 7. It is humbly submitted that the present the Written Statement. However, the
 application does not prejudice the rights Defendant did not assist this Hon'ble Court
 and/or opportunities of the Defendants in by providing any information or by placing
 any manner, since the Plaintiff does not any documents on record. The Written
 pray to change any submissions made by Statement filed, has no documents or
 it in the past, but only intends to provide annexures filed with it to provide any
 additional material for the proper assistance to this Hon'ble Court in
 adjudication the present suit. adjudicating this matter. 11. It is submitted that it is the case of the
 Plaintiff that the Defendant had asked the
 Plaintiff Company to develop an e- commerce platform/web-based
 marketplace for the Defendant company. The Plaintiff had set up the requisite
 infrastructure, entered into contracts with
 vendors and made the application ‗live' on
 various online application stores with ‗live
 data' . Plaintiff had a definite profit
 accruable in its favour through launch of
 said Application. However, the Defendant
 willingly breached the terms of the
 contract and did not commercially launch
 the Application as per the terms of the
 contract. The Plaintiff had placed on
 record various documents to prove its
 case. On the other hand, the Defendant, in
 its Written Statement has merely made
 ambiguous denials regarding the scope of
 work of the parties as per the agreement
 and interpretations of the terms of the
 contract. 14. Since the inception of the Suit, the
 Plaintiff had exercised due diligence and
 annexed the relevant documents to Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PRIYA Digitally Signed
Signing Date:13.02.2025 By:PURUSHAINDRA
17:27:57 31 KUMAR KAURAV
 substantiate the claim put forth by it. Subsequently, before the trial began, the
 Plaintiff realised that certain documents
 useful for the adjudication of the Suit had
 been inadvertently left out, and thus, the
 Plaintiff filed an Application under Order
 7, Rule 14(3), CPC . The said Application
 was graciously allowed by this Hon'ble
 Court on 30.01.2018. Later, on
 01.02.2018, the Suit was converted from
 CS(OS) No. 1705/2015 to CS(Comm.) No.
 169/2018, i.e., into a commercial suit. It is
 humbly and respectfully submitted that the
 present Suit was filed before the advent of Commercial Courts Act, 2015 and has
 been later changed to Commercial Suit. The Plaintiff, therefore, humbly requests
 this Hon'ble Court to consider the present
 Application in the context of order 7, Rule
 14(3), CPC read with Order XI as
 stipulated under Commercial Courts Act,
 2015 . 52. A bare perusal of both these applications would raise no clouds of any
 aspersions that the essential and fundamental rationale for not placing the
 additional documents on record, though meticulously couched in a different
 fashion, is one and the same in both the applications i.e., the voluminous
 nature of those documents. 53. Furthermore, it is also not the case that after the earlier application
 was allowed, immediately the present application came to be filed. In the
 present case, the plaintiff had examined PW1 and it is only on the
 completion of his evidence on 09.05.2023 that the present application came
 to be filed on 18.11.2023, which, if perused diligently, is essentially on the
 similar lines as I.A. No.12696/2017, which already stood disposed of on
 30.01.2018. 54. Moreover, the reasons assigned in the instant application and the
 averments made therein would unequivocally establish that all the
 documents were very much in power, possession, control and custody of the
 plaintiff. According to the plaintiff's own showing, the purported e-mails
 and the agreements entered into between other entities are available on their
 servers. 55. The entire castle of reasonable cause is built brick by brick through
 averments made in the application, however, the foundational block of this
 castle rests solely on one factor i.e., due to the voluminous record of the
 data, these documents could not be brought before the Court while
 presenting the plaint. 56. The Supreme Court in Sudhir Balyan and this Court in Hassad Food
 as well, dealt with a similar reason and held that the ―voluminous/bulky‖
 character of the documents does not absolve the plaintiff from placing those
 documents at the earliest opportunity. The duty cast upon the plaintiff, as
 well as on the defendant, in this regard, is the result of a transformative
 legislative intent which is reflected in unequivocal terms in the Act of 2015. 57. In the instant case as well, if an application of this nature is allowed
 and accepted without establishing reasonable cause, then the same would
 completely render the provisions of the Act of 2015 as otiose. It is, thus,
 clearly a case of lack of due diligence rather than a case of reasonable cause. 58. It is equally relevant to bear in mind that the Act of 2015 was
 introduced so that an independent mechanism for the timely resolution of
 high value commercial disputes, that involve complex facts and questions of
 law, can be envisaged. 59. The instant is a suit that came to be filed in the year 2015 and is still Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PRIYA Digitally Signed
Signing Date:13.02.2025 By:PURUSHAINDRA
17:27:57 33 KUMAR KAURAV
 at the stage of the plaintiff's evidence. The plaintiff in all fairness ought to
 have produced all relevant documents which were necessary for a fair
 adjudication of the instant case initially at the time of filing of the plaint or
 at best, at the time of filing of the I.A. No.12696/2017 when similar
 documents were sought to be placed on record and the plaintiff was
 permitted to do so. In any case, these documents should have been placed
 before the deposition of the plaintiff was commenced. The ground of
 inadvertent mistake has been accepted once in I.A. No.12696/2017 and it
 could not be urged time and again to improve the case at every step of the
 journey. The aspect of establishing reasonable cause is not even relevant in
 the instant application as the element of disclosing reasonable cause has not
 been fulfilled. It is, thus, seen that not only the case of the petitioner falls
 outside the purview of sub-rule 5 of Order XI Rule 1 of the Act of 2015 but
 the same also does not fulfill the basic requirement of disclosing and
 establishing reasonable cause. 60. The Court is conscious of the fact that reasonable cause requires a
 lesser degree of proof, whereas, sufficient cause or good cause, as the case
 may be, requires a higher degree of proof as has been held in the case of
 Hassad Foods. However, in the instant case, there is not even a reasonable
 cause shown by the plaintiff in not producing the documents in question on
 an earlier occasion. Moreover, the purported reason of the record being
 bulky is not outside the control of the plaintiff and the plaintiff was very
 well aware about the voluminous character of those documents at the time of
 filing of the suit as those documents were in power and possession of the
 plaintiff. In view of the aforesaid, the rigours of Order XI Rule 1(5) would
 be applicable in the present case in full force and the plaintiff cannot be Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PRIYA Digitally Signed
Signing Date:13.02.2025 By:PURUSHAINDRA
17:27:57 34 KUMAR KAURAV
 absolved from the responsibility of filing of all the documents relating to the
 proceedings at the time of presentation of the plaint. The amended legal
 position places a heavier burden upon the party seeking to place on record
 additional documents and grounds such as the voluminous or bulky nature of
 documents would not suffice. 61. The decisions relied upon by the plaintiff in the case of Iffco Tokio
 General Insurance and Roots Cooling System (P) Ltd. also do not come to
 its rescue as the said decisions are clearly distinguishable. 62. In the case of Iffco Tokio General Insurance, the plaintiff was
 merely seeking to refer to certain clauses of the alleged Travel Agent's
 Handbook, which could even have been referred by the witness without
 filing of a copy of the documents and thus, the Court had allowed for the
 placing of additional documents. Furthermore, in the said case, there was
 another set of documents that were not in the possession of the plaintiff and
 thus, the rigours of Order XI Rule 1 were held to be not applicable therein. 63. The case of Roots Cooling System (P) Ltd. is also clearly
 distinguishable both on facts and law. Firstly, it was a petition under Article
 227 of the Constitution of India, 1950 against an order allowing the
 documents to be taken on record. Secondly , in that case , the Court noted that
 documents therein were already filed by the plaintiff at the time of
 replication and it was only at the stage of the exhibition of those documents
 that the defendants therein raised the objection. Thus, in that peculiar factual
 scenario, the Court upheld the decision of the Trial Court to allow the
 application to place on record the additional documents. 64. The instant is not the case wherein the documents were earlier filed by
 the plaintiff and it was thereafter the plaintiff is seeking the leave of the Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PRIYA Digitally Signed
Signing Date:13.02.2025 By:PURUSHAINDRA
17:27:57 35 KUMAR KAURAV
 Court as mandated under Order XI Rule 1 of the Act of 2015. Thus, the case
 of Iffco Tokio General Insurance, which learned counsel appearing for the
 plaintiff heavily relied upon also did not come to his rescue. 65. The decision of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in the case of
 Penumatsa Anil Kumar is further distinguishable on facts and even
 otherwise, has only persuasive value not binding on this Court. 66. Needless to state, this Court in the case of Zee Entertainment
 Enterprises Ltd. has rightly observed that if leave is granted in a liberal
 manner in the name of interest of justice, the litigants and practitioners of
 commercial suits would never wake up to the changed circumstances in
 which a commercial suit is to be conducted. It is, thus, necessary for the
 Courts to enforce such change and discipline, by ceasing to exercise the
 discretion in this respect. The discretion of the Court must be exercised in
 harmony with the legislative intent behind a provision, especially when the
 legislative intent is expressed in unequivocal and unambiguous terms. 67. Even otherwise, the present case does not provide sufficient cause for
 the exercise of discretionary power, as the facts clearly depict that the
 documents were very much in possession of the plaintiff and were not
 brought on record for reasons best known to the plaintiff. 68. To ascertain the fundamental reasons for the delay in filing the
 documents, the Court fails to understand as to on what basis the delay is
 being explained. There is no reason at all, let aside any cogent reason, for
 filing of the documents at this belated stage and for non-filing at the
 appropriate stage. 69. The plaintiff appears to have slept over the documents for a
 considerable period of time and it is only after the evidence of PW1 was Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PRIYA Digitally Signed
Signing Date:13.02.2025 By:PURUSHAINDRA
17:27:57 36 KUMAR KAURAV
 over, it has woken up from its deep slumber. It appears that the primary
 consideration for filing these documents at this belated stage is to fill-up the
 lacuna in evidence of PW1. This application is yet another example of
 dilatory tactics being resorted to, which ultimately hinders the progression of
 the commercial suit and inhibits taking the civil dispute to its logical end
 with due expedition. It is apposite to note that procedural law cannot be
 applied to permit the parties to twist and turn the case as per changing
 scenarios, by resetting and revisiting the procedural stages in a light-hearted
 manner. 70. Allowing such an application at this belated stage, especially in the
 absence of a reasonable justification, would fundamentally undermine the
 core objectives of the Act of 2015. The purpose of the legislation was to
 establish a clear and structured framework for the speedy resolution of
 commercial matters, and permitting such a recourse now, without a
 justifiable reason, would effectively defeat the legislative intent. Such
 recourse perhaps cannot be countenanced by this Court and stares right in
 the face of the bonafide intention of the legislature behind the Act of 2015. 71. In view of the aforesaid, the instant application stands dismissed. 72. No Costs. CS (COMM)169/2018 & I.A. 24360/2023 73. List this matter before the Joint Registrar on 17.03.2025 to take
 necessary steps in accordance with extant rules and regulations.