% 22.04.2024 1. This application has been preferred on behalf of the applicant
 Prashant Das Gupta S/o Parveen Das Gupta under Section 439 Cr.P.C. for
 grant of regular bail in case FIR No. 354/2023 dated 25.07.2023 registered
 under Sections 376(2)(n) / 506 IPC at PS: Punjabi Bagh. Charge sheet has
 been filed before the Trial Court wherein Section 384 IPC was added. 2. The case of the prosecution is that on 25.07.2023, a complaint was
 received from the prosecutrix stating that she had come in contact with the
 applicant in 2019-2020 through Facebook and soon both exchanged their
 mobile numbers and started talking to each other. However, after one month BAIL APPLN. 3371/2023 Page 1 of 18 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 23/04/2024 at 23:58:31
 the prosecutrix stopped calling the applicant and there was no
 communication between them until June, 2022, when applicant again
 contacted her. In July, 2022 applicant called the prosecutrix and asked her to
 meet him at Club Road, Punjabi Bagh as he lived nearby. Applicant came in
 his red KIA car and after both were seated in the car, applicant asked the
 prosecutrix if she wanted to eat something and soon came back with a cold
 drink, which she drank and started feeling dizzy and fainted. When
 prosecutrix regained consciousness, she realised that applicant had raped her
 and made a video capturing the act. He threatened and blackmailed her to
 viral the video if she informed anyone of the incident and in that fear,
 prosecutrix neither reported the incident to the police nor informed her
 husband and family members. 3. It was alleged by the prosecutrix that in/around September, 2022
 applicant called her and asked her to get her jewellery and cash under a
 threat to post her objectionable pictures and the intimate video on the
 internet as also share the same with her husband. In October, 2022 applicant
 took the prosecutrix to Saffron Gold Hotel, Bhera Enclave and forced her
 into physical relations with him. Over the next few months, applicant's
 demand for money and jewellery increased. It was also alleged that
 applicant would often snatch the mobile phone of the prosecutrix and send
 messages to himself, which she later realised were messages indicating
 consensual relationship between the two, only with a view to create a
 defence for himself, in case of any complaint. 4. It was stated that in mid-November, 2022 there was a function in the
 family of the prosecutrix and her in-laws and husband asked her for the
 jewellery. Prosecutrix asked the applicant to return her jewellery, on which BAIL APPLN. 3371/2023 Page 2 of 18 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 23/04/2024 at 23:58:31
 he got annoyed, hurled abuses and slapped her. On continuous persistence
 by the prosecutrix to return the jewellery, as there was pressure from her
 family, applicant gave her fake imitation jewellery, which the prosecutrix
 gave to her husband, having no other option. However, soon the family
 discovered that the jewellery was not original and prosecutrix revealed
 everything to her husband including the incident of rape. Prosecutrix's
 husband contacted the applicant and demanded the jewellery but applicant
 threatened him also, whereafter a complaint was lodged by her husband with
 the police, but no action was taken. Unable to bear the torture and mental
 harassment, prosecutrix finally lodged a complaint, which led to registration
 of the present FIR. Prosecutrix also learnt subsequently that applicant was
 habitual of blackmailing married women and extorting money and jewellery
 from them under the threat of exposing their intimate photographs and
 videos. 5. Arguing on behalf of the applicant, Mr. Sidharth Aggarwal, learned
 Senior Counsel submits that applicant is innocent and has been falsely
 implicated on a false and fabricated story by the prosecutrix. Applicant was
 remanded to police custody for three days and has been in judicial custody
 since 25.08.2023. He is the sole bread earner of the family comprising of his
 wife, one minor child nearly two years old and aged parents. Incarceration
 of the applicant compelled his wife to shift to her mother's house with the
 child, as his parents shifted to a small rented accommodation at a rent of
 Rs.1,000/- per month. The family is finding it difficult to make both ends
 meet. 6. It is urged that the factual situation is materially different from the one
 portrayed by the prosecutrix or on behalf of the State. The truth and reality is BAIL APPLN. 3371/2023 Page 3 of 18 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 23/04/2024 at 23:58:32
 that in December 2016, family of the prosecutrix visited the house of the
 applicant with a marriage proposal, but at that time applicant was living in a
 small house with his parents and the proposal did not materialise on this
 score. Prosecutrix got married to some other person on 23.04.2017 and there
 was no communication between her and the applicant for some time.
 However, prosecutrix again approached the applicant in and around July,
 2018 and confided in the applicant that she was unhappy in her married life
 and did not receive the same love, affection and care, which she had got
 from the applicant. Thereafter both started meeting frequently and had
 consensual physical relationships. WhatsApp chats exchanged between the
 two, screenshots of which have been filed, will substantiate that this was a
 consensual relationship and ingredients of the offence of rape are not made
 out. Prosecutrix was happy in this relationship, till her husband learnt of the
 same and to save herself, she falsely implicated the applicant, alleging rape
 by him first in the car in July, 2022 and thereafter in a hotel as also demand
 of jewellery and cash, which was wholly untrue and an afterthought. 7. It is contended that there is considerable delay in lodging the FIR. The
 alleged incident of rape in KIA car is of July, 2022 and the next alleged
 incident is of October, 2022, but the FIR was registered on 25.07.2023. This
 is also evidence of the fact that the allegations are false, fabricated and an
 afterthought. Allegation relating to the incident at Saffron Gold Hotel, is
 completely bereft of specifics, since neither the date nor time of the incident
 has been mentioned and a bare perusal of the FIR reveals that there is an
 unsuccessful attempt to make out the ingredients of offence of rape on vague
 and omnibus allegations. Significantly and cautiously, there is no allegation
 of rape on false promise to marry. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 23/04/2024 at 23:58:32 8. It is argued that two elements have been introduced in the FIR to
 falsely incriminate the applicant. The first pertains to administering an
 intoxicated cold drink to the prosecutrix in the car, raping her and recording
 the intimate video and the alleged incidents date back to July, 2022. This
 element is introduced with the objective of getting away with the legal bar of
 consent and to bring in the component of sexual coercion. The second
 element is of taking jewellery and cash under threat of releasing the intimate
 video. WhatsApp chats, however, reveal a different picture and bear
 testimony to the fact that prosecutrix was willingly and happily in a
 consensual relationship with the applicant well before July, 2022. In this
 context, learned Senior counsel took the Court extensively through the
 screenshots of the WhatsApp chats and highlighted not only the dates of the
 messages, which go back to the year 2021, but also the contents thereof.
 Conversation includes "happy birthday" and "good night" messages with
 prefixes such as shonu/shonna, babbu, love, wify, missing you, discussions
 on time and venues of meetings, planning their baby, buying a mangalsutra,
 etc. 9. Mr. Agarwal further argues that the allegation of rape in July, 2022 is
 completely false and stand of applicant is fortified by the fact that the KIA
 car in which the rape allegedly happened, had met with a major accident on
 30.05.2022 and was badly damaged. The car was under repair with the
 workshop from 31.05.2022 to 29.08.2022 and since it was a major accident,
 NCR No.26/2022 dated 30.05.2022 was registered at PS: Keshav Puram,
 which is a verifiable fact, being a matter of police record. Service Bill issued
 by the workshop for an amount of Rs.2,49,943/- has also been placed on
 record for perusal of this Court and will be proved during trial. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 23/04/2024 at 23:58:32 10. It is further contended that the allegation with respect to the demand
 of jewellery and cash under the threat of releasing the intimate video also
 does not hold water as there exists no such video and despite seizure of the
 mobile phone of the applicant during investigation, no such video was
 recovered. Moreover, once the prosecutrix was in a consensual relationship
 over a long period of time, with no force or coercion on the prosecutrix to
 continue the relationship, applicant had no reason or necessity to make any
 such video. Prosecution has erroneously linked the allegations of jewellery
 to one text message received on the mobile phone of the applicant from
 Muthoot Finance and on this sole basis, concluded that applicant mortgaged
 the jewellery of the prosecutrix. Applicant has filed along with the present
 application receipts of gold loan accounts taken by him from Muthoot
 Finance pledging the jewellery of his wife, which along with the
 photographs of the jewellery reveal that these loan accounts have no
 connection with the jewellery of the prosecutrix. Further, all four loan
 accounts pertain to July, 2022, whereas going by the allegation, applicant
 had asked for the jewellery from the prosecutrix in September, 2022.
 Interestingly, while the allegations in the FIR do state that applicant had
 asked for jewellery but there is no date(s) when the prosecutrix handed over
 the same to the applicant. In fact, WhatsApp chats indicate that it was the
 prosecutrix, who was asking the applicant for a Mangalsutra on one
 occasion and a necklace set on the other. There are messages which show
 that she was forwarding designs and details of jewellers and asking the
 applicant to pay for the jewellery. WhatsApp chats further indicate that
 prosecutrix was unhappy in her married life and the applicant and
 prosecutrix not only had consensual physical relations but shared emotional BAIL APPLN. 3371/2023 Page 6 of 18 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 23/04/2024 at 23:58:32
 space and relied on each other for emotional support. 11. It is further contended that much has been said in the Status Report
 about the four cases pending against the applicant to oppose the bail,
 overlooking that the case emanating from FIR No.383/2011 was quashed by
 this Court vide order dated 16.10.2019 in Crl. M.C. No.5270/2019, while in
 case FIR No.111/2013, applicant has been acquitted by the Trial Court vide
 order dated 06.01.2015. In case FIR No.79/2013, applicant was not an
 accused and only FIR No.68/2021 is pending, in which bail was granted by
 the Trial Court vide order dated 18.01.2022. Moreover, it is a settled law
 that the mere pendency of other criminal cases against the accused cannot be
 a sole factor for refusal of the prayer for bail. In this context, reliance is
 placed on the judgment of the Supreme Court in Prabhakar Tewari v. State
 of Uttar Pradesh and Another , (2020) 11 SCC 648. 12. Lastly, it is urged that no incriminating material has been recovered
 from the applicant or from his house or at his instance. The only material
 available is the statement of the prosecutrix, which is clearly contrary to the
 other material on record in the form of WhatsApp chats and other
 documents. There are serious infirmities, flaws and discrepancies in the
 prosecution case, which point to the innocence of the applicant. Paramount
 considerations for grant of bail are the likelihood of the applicant fleeing
 from justice or tampering with evidence or influencing witnesses which do
 not exist in the present case and applicant undertakes not to contact the
 prosecutrix or her family members, in any manner whatsoever and shall
 abide by any other condition, that this Court may impose. It is not the case
 of the State that applicant is a flight risk or has done any act directly or
 indirectly to influence the witnesses during investigation. Investigation is BAIL APPLN. 3371/2023 Page 7 of 18 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 23/04/2024 at 23:58:32
 complete and Charge Sheet has been filed. Allegations of extortion are
 completely false and frivolous as there is no dishonest inducement and in
 any case the offence is punishable with imprisonment for a term, which may
 extend to 3 years and therefore, going by the judgment of the Supreme Court
 in Arnesh Kumar v. State of Bihar and Another , (2014) 8 SCC 273,
 applicant is entitled to be enlarged on bail. 13. Learned senior counsel relies on the following judgments:- State and Another, 2022 SCC OnLine Del 4428: Bails granted in
 similar factual situations. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 23/04/2024 at 23:58:32 14. Per contra, learned APP for State and counsel for the prosecutrix
 strenuously opposed the bail application on the ground that the allegations
 are grave and serious in nature. Applicant initially raped the prosecutrix by
 intoxicating her and thereafter repeatedly raped her under the threat of
 exposing the intimate video, recorded while indulging in the heinous crime,
 taking advantage of the fact that the prosecutrix had fainted due to
 intoxication. Applicant regularly threatened the prosecutrix to post the
 objectionable video on social media platforms as also send the same to her
 husband. Extending threats of sending the video recording to her husband,
 applicant also coerced the prosecutrix to handover her gold jewellery as also
 cash, from time to time. On her demand to return the jewellery back, as her
 family was consistently pressuring for the same, applicant procured and
 gave fake jewellery to her and pledged the original jewellery with Muthoot
 Finance for taking loans and enjoyed the borrowed money. Entire family of
 the prosecutrix is under threat and traumatised and her matrimonial life is on
 the verge of breaking. 15. It is further submitted that applicant is a habitual offender and
 involved in multiple incidents of exhorting and blackmailing women. His
 modus operandi is to target married women, develop intimate relationship
 with them and then use the objectionable material to threaten and demand
 gold jewellery and cash. Four FIRs other than the present one have been
 registered against the applicant and on account of the criminal antecedents
 and the gravity of the offences, applicant does not deserve to be enlarged on
 bail. It is submitted that there are chances of the applicant threatening the
 witnesses, if enlarged on bail as the case before the Trial Court is at the
 initial stages and charges are yet to be framed and the material witnesses BAIL APPLN. 3371/2023 Page 9 of 18 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 23/04/2024 at 23:58:32
 including the prosecutrix, are yet to be examined. 16. It is argued that during the course of investigation, statement of the
 prosecutrix was recorded under 164 Cr.P.C ., wherein she corroborated her
 previous version. In response to notice under Section 91 Cr.P.C., prosecutrix
 produced WhatsApp chats, photographs and bills of the jewellery including
 the duplicate jewellery, allegedly given to her by the applicant. Bills have
 been verified and it is found that the duplicate jewellery was customised
 through a company Thiya. CDRs of mobile numbers of the prosecutrix and
 the applicant were obtained and analysed during further investigation and
 both were found to be connected through the phones. Investigation into a
 message received on the mobile phone of the applicant from Muthoot
 Finance was also conducted which revealed that he had taken a loan and the
 jewellery pledged included the jewellery seen in the photographs submitted
 by the prosecutrix. Mobile phone of the prosecutrix and three phones of the
 applicant were sent for forensic examination and the FSL report is awaited. 17. Heard learned Senior counsel for the applicant and learned APP for
 State as well as learned counsel for prosecutrix. 18. There is no doubt that the allegations against the applicant are
 serious. The Supreme Court has from time to time observed that gravity or
 seriousness of the allegations may not always be a singular factor to deny
 bail to an accused. In Mahipal v. Rajesh Kumar alias Polia and Another,
 (2020) 2 SCC 118, the Supreme Court held that determination of whether a
 case is fit for grant of bail, involves balancing of numerous factors and the
 relevant passage is as follows:- 19. In Kalyan Chandra Sarkar v. Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav and
 Another, (2004) 7 SCC 528, the parameters required to be taken into
 consideration while deciding a bail application were reiterated and re-stated
 by the Supreme Court as follows:- (See Ram Govind Upadhyay v. Sudarshan Singh [(2002) 3 SCC 598 : 20. Keeping the aforesaid principles in mind, this Court has gone through
 the allegations in the FIR, the charge sheet, MLC and other documents on BAIL APPLN. 3371/2023 Page 11 of 18 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 23/04/2024 at 23:58:32
 record for the limited purpose of deciding this bail application. Both the
 applicant and the prosecutrix are nearly 32 years of age. It appears that
 applicant and the prosecutrix have known each other since the year 2016,
 when family of the prosecutrix had visited the house of the applicant with a
 marriage proposal, which did not fructify for some reason. Both are married
 and there is no allegation of rape on false promise to marry in the FIR. 21. Counsel for the prosecutrix did not dispute that applicant and
 prosecutrix knew each other before July, 2022 as this fact is mentioned in
 the FIR itself. Applicant has placed on record screenshots of WhatsApp
 chats exchanged between him and the prosecutrix running into over 100
 pages, which prima facie reflect that the relationship between them was
 consensual and the messages on record, date back to 10.09.2021. Prosecutrix
 was not only incessantly sending WhatsApp messages to the applicant but
 was also responding to his messages, promptly and happily. The messages
 include exchange of birthday greetings, fixing time and venues of meetings,
 discussion about their physical and intimate relationships, including a desire
 to have their own child. Words such as 'babu', 'shonu', 'shona', 'wify',
 'pati' have been frequently used by both, in different contexts. There is a
 demand from the prosecutrix in one of the messages for a mangalsutra for
 daily wear. Messages reveal the desperation and eagerness on both sides to
 meet each other as also an expression of happiness and gratitude that they
 both entered into this beautiful relationship. Several messages have sexual
 overtones, which are not being referred to for the sake of confidentiality.
 Significantly, the messages are of a period prior to July, 2022, when the
 alleged rape took place, as well as post thereto i.e. upto January, 2023. There
 is no clarity in the stand of the prosecutrix with respect to the WhatsApp BAIL APPLN. 3371/2023 Page 12 of 18 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 23/04/2024 at 23:58:32
 chats. There are varied stands on this aspect: screenshots placed on record
 are fabricated; chats are incomplete/edited; or that messages were sent by
 the applicant himself from prosecutrix's phone as he often took away her
 phone, but what is not denied is that most of these WhatsApp messages were
 exchanged between the two. 22. It is a matter of record that the FIR was registered on 25.07.2023
 albeit according to the prosecutrix, applicant had allegedly raped her in his
 car in July, 2022. Nothing has been placed on record which even remotely
 indicates the reason for lodging the complaint after a considerable period of
 approximately one year, save and except, that applicant was threatening the
 prosecutrix not to disclose anything to anyone, failing which he would leak
 the intimate video on social media platforms as also expose her in front of
 her husband. Till date no video has been recovered from the applicant,
 despite his phone having been seized during investigation. The WhatsApp
 messages prima facie do not support the plea of the prosecutrix that she was
 under any kind of threat or was being coerced into a relationship with the
 applicant and instead point to a long term consensual relationship. 23. There are material contradictions in the statements given by the
 prosecutrix under Section 161 Cr.P.C. on different dates as well as in the
 FIR and the MLC with respect to the month, in which the alleged incident of
 rape first occurred. In the FIR and MLC, the version is that applicant
 allegedly raped the prosecutrix in July, 2022, soon after the applicant and
 prosecutrix resumed their communications in June, 2022. However, in the
 second statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C., prosecutrix states that she had
 mentioned the wrong month earlier as the incident of rape was in January-
 February, 2022. This was perhaps an afterthought, as urged on behalf of the BAIL APPLN. 3371/2023 Page 13 of 18 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 23/04/2024 at 23:58:32
 applicant, once the prosecutrix realised that the KIA car had met with a
 major accident and was in the workshop for repairs between 31.05.2022 to
 29.08.2022. Applicant has placed on record the NCR registered on
 30.05.2022 as well as the invoices for the expenditure incurred on repairs,
 which will be tested during trial. 24. Insofar as the jewellery is concerned, the stand of the State and the
 prosecutrix is that after the family of the prosecutrix learnt that the original
 jewellery had been given by her to the applicant, she demanded her
 jewellery back from the applicant and he ordered for a duplicate jewellery,
 which was ultimately manufactured by 'Thiya'. Applicant, on the other
 hand, referred to the WhatsApp chats between September, 2022 to
 November, 2022, to contend that the prosecutrix wanted to buy jewellery
 and was finalising the designs with the jeweller while the applicant was
 finalising the payments and that she was the one, who had forwarded the
 details of Thiya to the applicant for reference. There was also a demand for a
 mangalsutra by the prosecutrix. No doubt that the WhatsApp chats, the
 genuineness or the pledge or the photographs of the jewellery including the
 status of the repair of the car etc. would be a matter of trial, but at this stage
 the Court cannot completely shut its eyes to the material on record, which
 does tilt the scales in favour of the applicant for grant of bail. 25. The judgment of this Court in Mohd. Moiz (supra) is close to the
 facts of this case wherein the applicant had sought regular bail in case where
 FIR was registered under Sections 376 / 506 / 328 IPC and charge sheet had
 been filed. The allegations were that the applicant had raped the prosecutrix
 by putting some substance in her drink on account of which she had become
 drowsy and unconscious. Applicant was stated to have promised to marry BAIL APPLN. 3371/2023 Page 14 of 18 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 23/04/2024 at 23:58:32
 the prosecutrix. WhatsApp chats between the parties were relied upon by
 either side to argue their respective cases. Coming to a prima facie
 conclusion that the WhatsApp communication showed that the applicant and
 the prosecutrix were in a relationship and the rest of the issues were a matter
 of trial, the Court admitted the applicant to bail and it would be useful to
 allude to the following observations:- 26. In somewhat similar facts, where material on record indicated BAIL APPLN. 3371/2023 Page 15 of 18 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 23/04/2024 at 23:58:33
 consensual physical relationships between the accused and the prosecutrix,
 this Court in Ashu Gautam (supra) and the High Court of Bombay in Mr. Pintukumar S. Singh v. The State of Maharashtra , 2016 SCC OnLine
 Bom 12589, granted regular bail. I may also refer to the decisions in Arun (supra) and Rishabh Rawat (supra) in this context. 27. Learned APP for the State has highlighted that the applicant has
 pledged the jewellery of the prosecutrix, which he extorted under the threat
 of leaking the intimate video and this is evident from a message received on
 the phone of the applicant from the said financers. Applicant on the other
 hand refuted the position by stating that he had taken 4 loans prior to the
 alleged extortion by pledging his wife's jewellery. Some photographs have
 been placed on record by the prosecutrix to show that part of the jewellery
 pledged by the applicant belongs to her. In my view, this would also be a
 matter of trial. 28. Insofar as the apprehension of the State and the prosecutrix that the
 applicant may threaten or intimidate the prosecutrix is concerned, the same
 can be taken care of by imposing the condition that the applicant shall not
 come in contact with the prosecutrix and/or any of her family members till
 the material witnesses are examined. It is not the case of the prosecution that
 the Applicant is a flight risk. As far as the antecedents of the Applicant are
 concerned, it was clarified during the course of hearing on behalf of the
 applicant that FIR No. 383/2011 was quashed by this Court on 16.10.2019
 while in FIR No. 111/2013, he has been acquitted by the Trial Court. In FIR
 79/2013, Applicant is not an accused and the only FIR pending against him
 is 68/2021, in which he is on bail granted by the Trial Court on 18.01.2022.
 In any event as observed by the Supreme Court in Prabhakar Tewari BAIL APPLN. 3371/2023 Page 16 of 18 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 23/04/2024 at 23:58:33
 (supra) pendency of another FIR will not be taken as singular factor by this
 Court in rejecting the present bail application, if the Applicant is otherwise
 entitled to be enlarged on bail. The same view was taken by the Co-ordinate
 Bench of this Court in Mumtaz (supra), applying the observations of the
 Supreme Court in Prabhakar Tewari (supra). Applicant is in judicial
 custody since 25.08.2023. Till date even charges have not been framed and
 the trial is not likely to conclude soon. 29. In view of the aforesaid facts and circumstances, in my view,
 applicant has made out a case for grant of bail. Consequently, applicant is
 directed to be released on bail, subject to furnishing a personal bond in the
 sum of Rs. 50,000/- with two sureties of the like amount to the satisfaction
 of the learned Trial Court and further subject to the following conditions: The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 23/04/2024 at 23:58:33
 (6) He shall report to the IO at PS: Punjabi Bagh once in two
 months, with advance intimation to the IO of the date and time. 30. In case of violation of any of the above conditions, it would be open
 to the prosecutrix and the State to approach the Court for cancellation of the
 bail. 31. Needless to state, any observation touching the merits of the case is
 prima facie and only for the purpose of deciding the present application and
 shall not be construed as an expression on merits of the case. 32. Application is allowed and stands disposed of. Pending application
 also stands disposed of. 33. Copy of the order be sent to the Jail Superintendent for information
 and necessary compliance. JYOTI SINGH, J
 APRIL 22, 2024
 B.S. Rohella BAIL APPLN. 3371/2023 Page 18 of 18 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 23/04/2024 at 23:58:33