1. Petitioner, through his brother, Fayaz Ahmad Dar, has assailed his

detention ordered by District Magistrate, Pulwama (the detaining authority)

vide its order No. 37/DMP/PSA-22 dated 19.05.2022 (the impugned order).

In terms of the impugned order aforesaid, the petitioner has been put under

preventive detention with a view to preventing him from acting in any

manner prejudicial to the maintenance of the public order. 2. Before adverting to the grounds of challenge urged by the learned

counsel for the petitioner („the detenue‟) to assail the impugned order, it is

necessary to notice the material facts on the basis of which the detaining

authority has derived its subjective satisfaction for placing the detenue under

the preventive detention. 3. As per the grounds of detention served upon the detenue, which are

framed by the detaining authority on the basis of Police report dated 18-05-

2022, he is alleged to be involved in motivating and provoking the innocent

youth, young and tender-aged boys for resorting to anti-social activities and

that he is an active member of the gang "TRATH GOLA" which is headed

by Abdul Hamid Dar R/O Tujan Pulwama along with some other associates

and is active in many Districts of the Valley. After the information was

received by the police about the illegal activities of the detenue, FIR No.

123/2022 under Sections 420 , 120-B IPC was registered and at the time of

framing the grounds of detention, the detenue was shown to be on Police

Remand. As it reveals from the grounds of detention, the detenue had been

active member of the gang since 2012, which was dishonestly and

fraudulently extorting money worth Crores of rupees from gullible people

on the pretext of paying returns in double and triple under the " TRATH

GOLA" a scam. It is also stated that the detenue had lured the people into

the trap and the amount so collected was used in illegal, illegitimate and

illicit activities. It is further alleged that the detenue along with his other

associates hatched a conspiracy to loot the general masses and persuaded

many to sold their properties to invest in "TRATH GOLA" the scam, and

that, since the detenue had applied for bail in the aforesaid FIR, therefore,

the detaining authority was of the opinion that remaining at large of the

detenue would be detrimental to the maintenance of peace and public order. 4. It is on the basis of these allegations contained in the FIR, the

detaining authority arrived at subjective satisfaction to detain the detenue in 3 WP(Crl) No.325/2022 order to restrain him from acting in any manner prejudicial to the

maintenance of public order. The detaining authority, thus, found it

imperative to detain the detenue by invoking Section 8 of the J&K Public

Safety Act and it is in the aforesaid backdrop, the impugned detention order

has been passed against the detenue and he has been lodged in District Jail

Bhaderwah. 5. Despite opportunity granted, counter affidavit on behalf of the

respondents has not been filed. Mr. Asif Maqbool, Dy. AG, has provided

scanned copy of the detention record. 6. The impugned order of detention has been challenged by the Detenue

on several grounds. Learned counsel for the Detenue, however, laid much

emphasis on the following grounds: existent and, therefore, on the basis thereof, no prudent and

 reasonable man can make an effective and purposeful

 representation. 7. Having heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the record, I

am of the considered view that the detention of the detenue is not

sustainable in law for more than one reason. 8. From perusal of grounds of detention, it clearly transpires that the

petitioner has been put under preventive detention primarily for his

involvement in FIR No.123/2022. The allegations contained in the aforesaid

FIR, which is made basis of the detention order, even if taken to be true on

their face value, do not constitute an act which has the potentiality of

disturbing the public order. The term "law and order" and "Public order" 9. To understand the concept better, here is an example: when two

drunkards quarrel and fight in the public street, there is disorder but not

public disorder. They can be dealt with under powers of maintenance of law

and order but cannot be detained for disturbing public order. However,

where two fighters are of rival communities and one of them tries to raise

communal passions, the problem is still of law and order but raises

apprehension of public disorder. 10. Recently in Banka Sneha Sheela v. State of Telangana and ors ,

(2021) 9 SCC 415, Hon‟ble the Supreme Court was confronted with a case

of preventive detention ordered by the State of Telangana on almost similar

grounds. There were as many as five FIRs all registered against the detenue

therein under Sections 420 , 406 and 506 IPC and in all the FIRs the detenue

was granted anticipatory bail. The detention was ordered primarily on the

ground that remaining at large of the detenue would be detrimental to public

order. The Hon‟ble the Supreme Court, in paragraphs No. 14, 15 and 19 has

held thus:- 11. Earlier Hon‟ble the Supreme Court in the case of Rekha v. State of T.

N, (2011) 5 SCC 244 also discussed the nature and scope of preventive

detention. Paragraphs No. 29 and 30 of the judgment are relevant and,

therefore, set out below:- 12. This case is fully covered by the Banka Sneha Sheela (supra). The

allegations in the FIR registered against the detenue may be a problem of

law and order but would not certainly come within the purview of the term

„public order‟. There is nothing mentioned in the grounds of detention to

demonstrate that the activities of the detenue, on the basis of which the FIR

for cheating and fraud came to be registered against him, had an impact of

disturbing even the tempo of life of the community or had the effect of

affecting the public at large. The offences with which the detenue has been

charged in the FIR are substantive offences and the ordinary law of the land

is sufficient to deal with the detenue, if he is ultimately found guilty of the

allegations leveled against him in the FIR. The apprehension of the

detaining authority that the detenue was likely to get bail and in that event,

his remaining at large would be detrimental to the maintenance of peace and

public order, cannot be basis of putting the detenue under preventive

detention. The detaining authority as also the State machinery is well within

its rights to oppose the bail and, if granted, take remedial measures by way

of approaching the higher forum. The simplicitor case of cheating and fraud, 8 WP(Crl) No.325/2022 without having wider ramifications, cannot be made the basis of issuing the

detention order in the name of maintaining the public order. 13. For the foregoing reasons, this petition is allowed. The impugned

order of detention is set aside and the detenue is directed to be released from

the preventive detention forthwith, unless, of course, not involved in any

other case. (Sanjeev Kumar)
 Judge
Srinagar
20.09.2022
Anil Raina, Addl. Reg/Secy

 Whether the order is speaking: Yes
 Whether the order is reportable: Yes