RANJAN GOGOI,J. 1. I have had the privilege of going

through the very erudite judgment of my

learned brother Ramana, J. I can only 2 agree with the trend of reasoning that my

learned brother has chosen to adopt to

arrive at his ultimate conclusions.

However, I am of the view that the present

case is capable of resolution within a

very narrow spectrum of law and on an

interpretation of the relevant provisions

of the Securities and Exchange Board of

India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and

Unfair Trade Practices Relating to

Securities Market) Regulations 2003

(hereinafter referred to as “2003

Regulations”). I, therefore, propose to

record my own views in the matter. 2. The relevant provisions of the

2003 Regulations which would require

consideration of this Court has been set

out in extenso by my learned brother and,

therefore, I need not burden this order

with a repetition of the same. All that I 3 consider necessary to point out is that it

is the provisions of Regulation 2(c) ,(3)

and (4) of the 2003 Regulations which

would require a consideration from the

limited stand point of whether the actions

attributable to the respondents in Appeal

Nos.2595 of 2013, 2596 of 2013 and 2666 of

2013 and appellants in Appeal Nos.5829 of

2014 and 11195-11196 of 2014 come within

the four corners of fraudulent or unfair

trade practice as contemplated by the

aforesaid provisions of the 2003

Regulations. 3. The gravamen of the allegations

which can be culled out from the facts in

Civil Appeal No.2595 of 2013 is that one

Dipak Patel (respondent in Civil Appeal

No.2596 of 2013), who was holding a

position of trust and confidence in one

M/s Passport India Investment (Mauritius) 4 Limited (hereinafter referred to as “M/s

Passport India”), was privy to

privileged/confidential information that

M/s Passport India would be making

substantial investments in particular

scrips through the stock exchanges.

Dipak Patel is alleged to have parted the

said information to his cousins Kanaiyalal

Baldevbhai Patel [respondent in Civil

Appeal No.2595 of 2013] and Anandkumar

Baldevbhai Patel [respondent in Civil

Appeal No.2594 of 2013 (disposed of on 5th

April, 2017)] who on various dates placed

orders for purchase of scrips a few

minutes before the bulk orders in respect

of the same scrips were placed on behalf

of M/s Passport India by Dipak Patel. The

bulk order/orders, because of the sheer

volume, naturally had the effect of

pushing up the prices of the particular

scrips and no sooner the prices had 5 increased, Kanaiyalal Baldevhai Patel and

Anandkumar Baldevbhai Patel had traded the

said scrips thereby earning substantial

profits. The large volume of the shares

traded in the above manner; the several

number of days on which such trading took

place; and the close proximity of time

between the sale and purchase of the

shares i.e. before and after the bulk

purchases, were alleged by the appellant -

Securities and Exchange Board of India

(“SEBI” for short) to be amounting to

fraudulent or unfair trade practice

warranting imposition of penalty and

visiting the offending individuals with

other penal consequences. 4. The adjudicating authority held the

respondents liable. The Securities

Appellate Tribunal (“Appellate Tribunal”

for short) before whom appeals were filed 6 by the aggrieved persons (respondents

herein) interfered with the orders passed

by the adjudicating authority primarily on

the ground that on a reading of Regulation

2(c) ,(3) and Regulation(4) of the 2003

Regulations it does not transpire that the

acts attributable amount to fraudulent or

unfair trade practice warranting the

findings recorded by the Adjudicating

authority and the imposition of penalty in

question on that basis. 5. If Regulation 2(c) of the 2003 was

to be dissected and analyzed it is clear

that any act, expression, omission or

concealment committed, whether in a

deceitful manner or not, by any person

while dealing in securities to induce

another person to deal in securities would

amount to a fraudulent act. The emphasis

in the definition in Regulation 2(c) of 7 the 2003 Regulations is not, therefore, of

whether the act, expression, omission or

concealment has been committed in a

deceitful manner but whether such act,

expression, omission or concealment

has/had the effect of inducing another

person to deal in securities. 6. The definition of 'fraud', which

is an inclusive definition and, therefore,

has to be understood to be broad and

expansive, contemplates even an action or

omission, as may be committed, even

without any deceit if such act or omission

has the effect of inducing another person

to deal in securities. Certainly, the

definition expands beyond what can be

normally understood to be a 'fraudulent

act' or a conduct amounting to 'fraud'.

The emphasis is on the act of inducement

and the scrutiny must, therefore, be on 8 the meaning that must be attributed to the

word “induce”. 7. The dictionary meaning of the word

“induced” may now be taken note of. BLACK’S LAW DICTIONARY, EIGHTH
 EDITION, defines ‘inducement’ as “the
 act or process of enticing or
 persuading another person to take a
 certain course of action.”
 Merriam-Webster Dictionary
 defines ‘inducement’ as “a motive or
 consideration that leads one to action
 or to additional or more effective
 actions.” 8. A person can be said to have induced

another person to act in a particular way or

not to act in a particular way if on the basis

of facts and statements made by the first

person the second person commits an act or

omits to perform any particular act. The test

to determine whether the second person had

been induced to act in the manner he did or

not to act in the manner that he proposed, is 9 whether but for the representation of the

facts made by the first person, the latter

would not have acted in the manner he did.

This is also how the word inducement is

understood in criminal law. The difference

between inducement in criminal law and the

wider meaning thereof as in the present case,

is that to make inducement an offence the

intention behind the representation or

misrepresentation of facts must be dishonest

whereas in the latter category of cases like

the present the element of dishonesty need not

be present or proved and established to be

present. In the latter category of cases, a

mere inference, rather than proof, that the

person induced would not have acted in the

manner that he did but for the inducement is

sufficient. No element of dishonesty or bad

faith in the making of the inducement would be

required. 9. While Regulation 3(a) of the 2003

Regulations prohibits a person to buy, 10 sell or otherwise deal in securities in a

fraudulent manner, Regulation 4 declares

that no person shall indulge in a

fraudulent or an unfair trade practice in

securities. Sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 4 enumerates different

situations in which dealing in securities

can be deemed to be a fraudulent or an

unfair trade practice. Regulation 4 being

without prejudice to the provisions of Regulation 3 of the 2003 Regulations would

operate on its own without being

circumscribed in any manner by what is

contained in Regulation 3 . 10. Adverting to the facts of the

present case, if the information with

regard to acquisition of shares by M/s

Passport India was parted with by Dipak

Patel to Kanaiyalal Baldevbhai Patel and

Anandkumar Baldevbhai Patel and the latter 11 had transacted in huge volume of shares of

the particular company/scrip mentioned by

Dipak Patel a little while before the bulk

order was placed by M/s. Passport India

and the said persons had sold the same a

short-while later at an increased price,

such increase being a natural consequence

of a huge investment made in the

particular scrip by M/s Passport India,

surely, it can be held that by the conduct

of Dipak Patel, Kanaiyalal Baldevbhai

Patel and Anandkumar Baldevbhai Patel were

induced to deal in securities. A natural

and logical inference that would follow is

that the aforesaid two latter persons

would not have entered into the

transactions in question, had it not been

for the information parted with by Dipak

Patel. The track record of earlier

trading of the concerned two persons does

not indicate trading in such huge volumes 12 in their normal course of business. Such

 an inference would be a permissible mode

 of arriving at a conclusion with regard to

 the liability, as held by this Court in Securities and Exchange Board of India

 Vs. Kishore R. Ajmera1 referred to by my

 learned brother Ramana, J. The volume;

 the nature of the trading and the timing

 of the transactions in question can leave

 no manner of doubt that Kanaiyalal

 Baldevbhai Patel and Anandkumar Baldevbhai

 Patel had acted in connivance with Dipak

 Patel to encash the benefit of the

 information parted with by Dipak Patel to

 them and, therefore, they are parties to

 the 'fraud' committed by Dipak Patel

 having aided and abetted the same. 11. If the parting of information by

 Dipak Patel to Kanaiyalal Baldevbhai Patel 1 (2016) 6 SCC 368 13 and Anandkumar Baldevbhai Patel amounts to

'fraud' within the meaning of Regulation

2(c) of the 2003 Regulations, we do not

see as to how the transactions entered

into by Kanaiyalal Baldevbhai Patel and

M/s Passport India through Dipak Patel

both in regard to purchase and sale of the

shares would not be hit by the provisions

of Regulation 3(a) and Regulation 4(1) of

the 2003 Regulations in question. 12. Coupled with the above, is the

fact, the said conduct can also be

construed to be an act of unfair trade

practice, which though not a defined

expression, has to be understood

comprehensively to include any act beyond

a fair conduct of business including the

business in sale and purchase of

securities. However the said question, as

suggested by my learned Brother, Ramana, 14 J. is being kept open for a decision in a

more appropriate occasion as the

resolution required presently can be made

irrespective of a decision on the said

question. 13. On the conclusions that has been

reached, as indicated above, whether the

deemed provisions contained in Regulation

4(2)(q) of the 2003 Regulations would be

attracted to the facts of the present case

and the scope, effect and contours of the

explanation to Regulation 4 inserted by

Securities and Exchange Board of India

(Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair

Trade Practices relating to Securities

Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2013

would hardly require any specific notice

of the Court. 14. To attract the rigor of

Regulations 3 and 4 of the 2003 15 Regulations, mens rea is not an

indispensable requirement and the correct

test is one of preponderance of

probabilities. Merely because the

operation of the aforesaid two provisions

of the 2003 Regulations invite penal

consequences on the defaulters, proof

beyond reasonable doubt as held by this

Court in Securities and Exchange Board of

India Vs. Kishore R. Ajmera (supra) is not

an indispensable requirement. The

inferential conclusion from the proved and

admitted facts, so long the same are

reasonable and can be legitimately arrived

at on a consideration of the totality of

the materials, would be permissible and

legally justified. Having regard to the

facts of the present cases i.e. the volume

of shares sold and purchased; the

proximity of time between the transactions

of sale and purchase and the repeated 16 nature of transactions on different dates,

in my considered view, would irresistibly

lead to an inference that the conduct of

the respondents in Appeal Nos.2595 of

2013, 2596 of 2013 and 2666 of 2013 and

appellants in Appeal Nos.5829 of 2014 and

11195-11196 of 2014 were in breach of the

code of business integrity in the

securities market. The consequences for

such breach including penal consequences

under the provisions of Section 15HA of

the SEBI Act must visit the concerned

defaulters for which reason the orders

passed by the Appellate Tribunal impugned

in Civil Appeal Nos.2595 of 2013, 2596 of

2013 and 2666 of 2013 are set aside and

the findings recorded and the penalty

imposed by the Adjudicating Officer are

restored. 15. Consequently and in view of the 17 above Civil Appeal Nos. 5829 of 2014 and

11195-11196 of 2014 are dismissed and

Civil Appeal Nos. 2595, 2596 and 2666 of

2013 are allowed. ..............,J. (RANJAN GOGOI)

NEW DELHI
SEPTEMBER 20, 2017