2. Rule. Rule made returnable forthwith. Heard finally

by the consent of learned Counsel for the respective parties. 3. The present Application is preferred by the

Applicant for quashing of the First Information Report in

connection with Crime No.163/2022 registered under Section

306 of the Indian Penal Code and consequent proceeding arising

out of the same bearing R.C.C. No. 325/2025 pending before

the Judicial Magistrate First Class, Chikli, District Buldana. 4. The Informant has lodged the report on 15.04.2022

alleging that the Informant had taken a hand loan of

Rs. 20,000/- from the Applicant for paying premium of Bachat

Gat. The amount of Rs. 20,000/- was lent by the Applicant to

the Informant and his wife and for return of hand loan amount

Rs.700/- per day required to be paid. It is also alleged that, on

12.04.2022 since morning the Applicant was calling the

Informant for payment of the loan amount. Therefore, the

Informant and his wife had gone to their nephew Yogesh

Shevare to seek financial help but they could not get it and
 3 923.APL.972-2022.JUDGMENT.odt

while returning to their village, they received a call from the

Applicant and the Applicant threatened them that if the amount

is not paid, they should not enter Amdapur Village. Being

disturbed, the Informant and his wife came to Chikhli,

purchased rat poison from the market and consumed the same.

In the said incident, the wife succumbed to death. Due to the

said incident, the offence came to be registered against the

Applicant alleging that he has abeted the deceased to commit

suicide. 5. Heard Mr. Sirpurkar, learned Counsel for the

Applicant, who submitted that by no stage of imagination it can

be said that, the Applicant has abeted the deceased to commit

suicide merely because he has demanded the amount which he

has given by lending the same to the Informant, is not sufficient

to say that it was an abetment at the hands of the present

Applicant. He submitted that, the offence of abetment is defined

in Section 306 as well as Sections 107 and 108 of the Indian

Penal Code. 6. Section 306 of the Indian Penal Code talks about

abetment of suicide and states that whoever abets the
 4 923.APL.972-2022.JUDGMENT.odt

commission of suicide of another person, he/she shall be

punished with imprisonment of either description for a term not

exceeding ten years and shall also be liable to fine. 7. The said Sections penalizes abetment of commission

of suicide and a question arises as to when is a person said to

have instigated another. The word "instigate" means to goad or

urge forward provoke, incite or encourage to do "an act" which

the person otherwise would not have done, which is absent in

the present case. In view of that, the Application deserves to be

allowed. 8. Per contra, learned APP and learned Counsel for the

Non-applicant No.2 strongly opposed for the same and

submitted that, considering the allegation levelled against the

present Applicant that he was insisting to pay the amount and

was charging the interest, which is illegal and there was no

alternative before the deceased but to commit the suicide, and

therefore, the present Applicant is responsible for the death of

the deceased. In view of that, the Application deserves to be

rejected. 5 923.APL.972-2022.JUDGMENT.odt 9. On hearing both the sides and on perusal of the

investigation papers and the recitals of the FIR, the allegation

against the present Applicant is that the Informant has taken

hand loan of Rs. 20,000/- from the present Applicant and the

Informant agreed to pay Rs. 700/- per day to the present

Applicant against repayment of the amount. It is further alleged

that, on 12.04.2022 the Informant and his wife were receiving

the consistent calls from the present Applicant, and therefore,

they went to their relative to arrange the amount but could not

arrange and the Applicant has threatened them that if the

amount is not paid he would not allow them to enter into the

village as there was no alternative, therefore the deceased has

committed suicide. 10. Section 306 ( Section 108 of the Bharatiya Nyaya

Sanhita, 2023) of the Indian Penal Code defines abetment of

suicide, which reads thus: 11. Section 107 of the Indian Penal Code ( Section 45 of

the Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita, 2023) defines abetment of a thing,

which reads thus: 7 923.APL.972-2022.JUDGMENT.odt 12. Section 108 of the Indian Penal reads thus: Explanation 3.-- It is not necessary that the person abetted
 should be capable by law of committing an offence, or that he
 should have the same guilty intention or knowledge as that of
 the abettor, or any guilty intention or knowledge.

 Illustrations (a) A, with a guilty intention, abets a child or a lunatic to
 commit an act which would be an offence, if committed by a
 person capable by law of committing an offence, and having
 the same intention as A. Here A, whether the act be
 committed or not, is guilty of abetting an offence. (b) A, with the intention of murdering Z, instigates B, a child
 under seven years of age, to do an act which causes Z's death.
 B, in consequence of the abetment, does the act in the
 absence of A and thereby causes Z's death. Here, though
 was not capable by law of committing an offence, A is liable
 8 923.APL.972-2022.JUDGMENT.odt

to be punished in the same manner as if B had been capable
by law of committing an offence, and had committed murder,
and he is therefore subject to the punishment of death. (c) A instigates B to set fire to a dwelling-house, B, in conse-
quence of the unsoundness of his mind, being incapable of
knowing the nature of the act, or that he is doing what is
wrong or contrary to law, sets fire to the house in
consequence of A's instigation. B has committed no offence,
but A is guilty of abetting the offence of setting fire to a
dwelling-house, and is liable to the punishment, provided for
that offence. (d) A, intending to cause a theft to be committed, instigates
to take property belonging to Z out of Z's possession. A
induces B to believe that the property belongs to A. B takes
the property out of Z's possession, in good faith, believing it
to be A's property. B, acting under this misconception, does
not take dishonestly, and therefore does not commit theft. But
A is guilty of abetting theft, and is liable to the same
punishment as if B had committed theft. Explanation 4.-- The abetment of an offence being an
offence, the abetment of such an abetment is also as offence.

Illustration

A instigates B to instigate C to murder Z. B accordingly insti-
gates C to murder Z, and C commits that offence in
consequence of B's instigation. B is liable to be punished for
his offence with the punishment for murder; and, as A
instigated B to commit the offence, A is also liable to the same
punishment. Explanation 5.-- It is not necessary to the commission of the
offence of abetment by conspiracy that the abettor should
concert the offence with the person who commits it. It is
sufficient if he engages in the conspiracy in pursuance of
which the offence is committed. Illustration

A concerts with B a plan for poisoning Z. It is agreed that A
shall administer the poison. B then explains the plan to
mentioning that a third person is to administer the poison,
but without mentioning A's name. C agrees to procure the
 9 923.APL.972-2022.JUDGMENT.odt

 poison, and procures and delivers it to B for the purpose of its
 being used in the manner explained. A administers the
 poison; Z dies in consequence. Here, though A and C have not
 conspired together, yet C has been engaged in the conspiracy
 in pursuance of which Z has been murdered. C has therefore
 committed the offence defined in this section and is liable to
 the punishment for murder." 13. Section 306 of the Indian Penal Code talks about

abetment of suicide and states that whoever abets the

commission of suicide of another person, he/she shall be

punished with imprisonment of either description for a term not

exceeding ten years and shall also be liable to fine. 14. It is well settled that in order to amount to

abetment, there must be mens rea. Without knowledge or

intention, there cannot be any abetment. The knowledge and

intention must relate to the act said to be abetted which in this

case, is the act of committing suicide. Therefore, in order to

constitute abetment, there must be direct incitement to do

culpable act. 15. In Ramesh Kumar vs. State of Chattisgarh , reported

in AIR 2001 SC 383, this Court has analyzed different meanings

of "instigation". The relevant para of the said judgment is

reproduced herein: Yet a reasonable certainty to incite the consequence must be
 capable of being spelt out. The present one is not a case
 where the accused had by his acts or omission or by a
 continued course of conduct created such circumstances that
 the deceased was left with no other option except to commit
 suicide in which case an instigation may have been inferred.
 A word uttered in the fit of anger or emotion without
 intending the consequences to actually follow cannot be said
 to be instigation." 16. The essentials of Section 306 IPC were elucidated by

this Court in M.Mohan vs. State , AIR 2011 SC 1238, as under: 17. Thus, in order to bring a case within the purview of Section 306 of IPC there must be a case of suicide and in the

commission of the said offence, the person who is said to have
 11 923.APL.972-2022.JUDGMENT.odt

abetted the commission of suicide must have played an active

role by an act of instigation or by doing certain act to facilitate

the commission of suicide. Therefore, the act of abetment by the

person charged with the said offence must be proved and

established by the prosecution before he could be convicted

under Section 306 of the Indian Penal Code. 18. Thus, a direct influence or an oblique impact with

the acts or utterances of the accused caused or created in the

mind of the deceased and which draw him to suicide will not be

sufficient to constitute offence of abetment of suicide. A fetal

impulse or ill-fated thoughts of the suicide, however

unfortunate and touchy it may be, cannot fray the fabric of the

provision contained in Section 306 of the Indian Penal Code. In

order to bring out an offence under Section 306 of the Indian

Penal Code specific abetment as contemplated by Section 306 of

the Indian Penal Code on the part of the accused with an

intention to bring about the suicide of the person concerned as a

result of that abetment is required. The intention of the accused

to aid or to instigate or to abet the deceased to commit suicide
 12 923.APL.972-2022.JUDGMENT.odt

is a must for an offence under Section 306 of the Indian Penal

Code. 19. Thus, combine reading of Sections 306 , 107 , and 108 of the Indian Penal Code, shows the requirement is a

positive act on the part of the accused to instigate or aid in

committing suicide and in the absence of the same, the

conviction cannot be sustained. There has to be a clear

intention to commit the offence for being held liable under Section 306 of the Indian Penal Code. 20. Applying the above principles to the facts of the

present case and even accepting the case as it is, it reveals that

the amount was taken by the Informant from the present

Applicant and there was a demand. There is nothing on record

to show that, the insistence was such a nature that there was no

alternative before the deceased but to commit suicide. 21. While dealing with the situation on the basis of the

facts of this case and on perusal of the entire investigation

papers, admittedly the offence is not made out against the

present Applicant to show that due to the abetment at the hands
 13 923.APL.972-2022.JUDGMENT.odt

 of the present Applicant, the deceased has committed suicide. In

 view of that, the Application deserves to be allowed.

 Accordingly, we proceed to pass the following order. ORDER

 i. Criminal Application is allowed. ii The First Information Report in connection with
 Crime No.163/2022 registered under Section 306 of
 the Indian Penal Code and consequent proceeding
 arising out of the same bearing R.C.C. No. 325/2025
 (now Sessions Case No.92/2025), is hereby quashed
 and set aside against the present Applicant. 22. Rule is made absolute in the above terms. 23. Fees of the learned Appointed Counsel be quantified

 as per rules. 24. Pending application/s, if any, shall stand disposed of

 accordingly. (NANDESH S. DESHPANDE, J.) (URMILA JOSHI PHALKE, J.)

Signed by: Mr.S.D.Bhimte
 S.D.Bhimte
Designation: PA To Honourable Judge
Date: 27/11/2025 19:41:54