C. Bhattacharya, Member 1. The appeals are taken up for final hearing with the consent of all the parties. 2. Briefly stated, the facts of the case are that DSQ Software Ltd., formerly known as Square D Software Ltd., was a company engaged in Software business with its registered office initially in Kolkatta but later shifted to Chennai. Shri Dinesh Dalmia and his group concerns were the main promoters of the company. The Board of directors consisted of the following persons apart from Shri Dinesh Dalmia as on 31/12/2000: ( c ) While 130 lakh shares mentioned above were allotted by the company to various entities associated with or controlled by Shri Dinesh Dalmia, the allottees being allotted the said shares offloaded those shares through the trading system of the exchanges misrepresenting the same as listed shares. This fraudulent act was perpetrated with the assistance of certain persons and entities controlled by Shri Dinesh Dalmia. (d) The company gave false information to the Stock Exchanges vide a letter dated February 26, 2001 that the company received full money due from the applicants towards allotment of 30 lakh shares allotted to New Vision Investment Ltd., The company also gave false information to the Stock Exchanges again by letter dated February 26, 2001 that it had received the entire application money from the allottees on consideration other than cash towards allotment of 1.40 crore Shares allotted on January 12, 2001 to New Vision Investment Ltd., Softec Corporation Ltd., and Technology Trust. The Company also indulged in issuing shares with the same distinctive numbers which were earlier affixed to shares allotted to different entities or were already sold or introduced into the market or the trading system before listing. Due to the company's non disclosure of the allotment of these 1.30 core shares to the various entities during the year 2000, many innocent investors who bought unlisted shares during the year 2000 were defrauded. It was alleged that the act of selling 
 

1.30 crore unlisted demat shares of the company into the market was nothing but a perpetration of fraud on the innocent investors who bought the said shares, from whom all background information and material facts were concealed. 5. In the light of the findings during the investigation, show cause notices were issued by the respondent to the company and its directors. The directors were also given an opportunity for personal hearing first on 22/11/2003 and, thereafter, at their request on another occasion on 27/01/2004. The submissions of Shri Dinesh Dalmia who was the Vice Chairman and Managing Director were considered separately and a separate order has been issued against him which is the subject matter of Appeal No.346/2004 before this Tribunal. Of the other remaining directors, Shri Bhatnagar ceased to be a director as he expired in 2001. The IDBI nominee director enjoyed the protection of Section 30A(2) of the IDBI Act and has not been charged by SEBI. The remaining four directors viz. Brigadier (retd) V. M. Sundaram, B. K. Pal, J. Narayanamurthy, K. M. Venkateswaran were all given a common show cause notices and were all covered by the same personal hearing. A common order has been passed against these four directors of DSQ Software prohibiting them from buying, selling or dealing in securities, in any manner, directly or indirectly for a period of 5 years and also prohibiting them from holding any office of responsibility in a company/entity or other institution associated with the securities market for a period of 5 years. This order has been passed by the Chairman of SEBI under section 11 and 11B of the SEBI Act, 1992. Being aggrieved by this impugned order the appellants have filed these appeals. 6. During the hearing the learned counsels for the appellants submitted that the appellants were not full time directors of the company and were never in overall charge of any operation or the day to day management. As member of the Board their role was confined to participation in the Board Meetings for formulation of policies. Hence decision making in respect of the day to day management of the company's affairs was not within the purview of their duties and responsibilities. They stated that except the 30 lakh shares allotted to New Vision Investment Ltd., UK on 20th May, 2000 they were not aware of any other allotment as well as dematerialization of shares as these matters never came up to the Board of Directors. There was, thus, no consent by the appellants for any irregularities that the company or its Managing Director might have committed nor was there any negligence as is clear from the minutes of the meeting of Allotment Committee as well as minutes of the Board of Directors meeting both held on 20th May, 2000. Both the Allotment Committee and the Board of Directors did scrutinize and take into consideration all relevant factors before agreeing to allot 30 lakh shares to M/s. New Vision Investment Ltd., In any case, the said allotment made to New Vision Investment Ltd., on 20th May, 2000 was subsequently cancelled for non pay ment of call money. In sum, the appellants submitted that: 7. In support of this burden of argument that the above incidents did not in fact constitute any negligence on the part of the Board of Directors, the learned counsel referred to a case law of AIR 1926 Oudh 153 where briefly a pronouncement on the nature of duties of a director of a company were enunciated. The learned counsel also mentioned that the Directors are old people - one of them is 70 years and the others are all above 60 years - and none of them are actively associated with the stock markets. 8. The appellants have not challenged the fact that a number of serious irregularities were indeed committed by the company and its management by way of issuing a large volume of shares for which the company did not receive any or full consideration. These shares were issued with such distinctive numbers which were already used for other shares in circulation. (in other words such shares were issued with duplicate distinctive numbers). These shares though unlisted, were invariably and promptly dematerialized and introduced for trading without any intimation to the exchanges. These shares were allotted to entities which were controlled by Shri Dinesh Dalmia and were sold in the market through brokers and entities who were either controlled by or associated with Shri Dinesh Dalmia. All these were going on from May, 2000 to January, 2001 i.e. for a period of 8-9 months. The Company and the Directors were well aware that there is a prescribed procedure to be followed for issue and allotment of shares, its listing, and all the other connected disciplines enunciated in the Statute. It appears that the Board of Directors had failed to ensure that the rigour of the drill of such prescribed procedure is maintained and the required degree of compliance is adhered to. The failure to observe the prescribed procedure led to a big hole in the internal compliance of the company which allowed certain individuals to resort to the fraudulent activities. The standards of corporate governance are now more pervasive and comprehensive than the brief descriptions of the duties of Board of Directors mentioned in AIR 1926 Oudh 153 supra quoted by the learned counsel. It is also the duty and responsibility of the directors of the board of a company to ensure that proper systems and controls are in place and to monitor the efficacy of such systems and controls. Failure to do so will obviously render them liable to the charge of negligence. 9. In the instant case, the directors have taken the stand that they were aware of only the allotment of 30 lakh shares to New Vision Investment Ltd., which they had allowed after proper application of mind. A reference has been made to a number of other board meetings in SEBI Investigation Report which the directors claim that they were not aware of as they had neither received any notice nor attended those meetings. SEBI also failed to prove that the 4 Directors had indeed participated in those meeting. However, by their failure to establish proper systems and controls in the internal working of the company, particularly in the area of issue of shares, allotment of shares, dematerialization of shares etc. and by their failure to establish a monitoring mechanism to ensure that the company or the persons in charge of day to day running do not deviate from the laid down procedure and system, the directors had definitely shown considerable amount of negligence. Having said that, the fact remains that the charges levelled against DSQ Software and Shri Dinesh Dalmia and his associates and group companies, arose out of allegations of unfair and fraudulent trade practices requiring higher standards of proof. The impugned order mentions that "the directors of DSQ Software, as specified above have failed to exercise due diligence and prevent unlawful and fraudulent activities of the company and its promoters". Admittedly, there is no whisper of allegation that the appellants had in any way aided or abetted with Shri Dinesh Dalmia to indulge in fraudulent activities. SEBI itself has made a distinction between DSQ Software and Shri Dinesh Dalmia and these 4 directors on the one hand and on the other hand by passing separate orders and by imposing a steeper punishment for the former. This by itself shows that SEBI was convinced that these four directors on the board of DSQ Software were rather passive and had no active role or connivance in perpetrating the alleged fraud. Having regard to this distinction made by SEBI itself, which is also the factual position, we are of the view that the ends of justice will be met squarely, if the impugned order of prohibition imposed on the appellants is allowed to run for the limited period it has already run. 10. The impugned order is upheld with this modification as to the period only. No order as to costs. It is the desire of the Tribunal that, taking into account the 
 

facts and circumstances of the case and also taking into account that there is no direct overt act alleged against the appellants either in the show cause notice or in the impugned order, this order passed by us will not be a stigma on the appellants considering their advanced age.