The petitioners are accused in C.C.No.50/2012 on the file of the learned Judicial Magistrate No.VII, Coimbatore. The respondent is the complainant in the case. The respondent has filed the said private complaint alleging that the petitioners have committed an offence punishable under Section 500 of IPC. Seeking to quash the same, the petitioners have come up before this Court with this petition. 2.	The facts of the case would be as follows: 3.	The respondent has further alleged that on account of the above unregistered Will dated 04.05.2005, the petitioners herein have got no right whatsoever over the said property. But, on 15.07.2008, according to the respondent, a false complaint was made by one of the petitioners herein upon which a case was registered by the police and the same was finally closed as 'mistake of fact'. Thereafter, the petitioners have filed a suit in O.S.No.610/2009 before the learned I Additional District Judge, Coimbatore for partition. According to the respondent, in the plaint in O.S.No.610/2009, the petitioners herein have made lot of defamatory imputations making out a clear offence punishable under Section 500 of IPC. With these allegations, the respondent has filed the instant private complaint. After having made appearance before the lower court, the petitioners, who are accused 1 to 4 have come up before this Court seeking to quash the entire proceedings. 4.	The imputations as extracted in the complaint, are reproduced below:- He used to beg money from his mother by troubling her and even sometimes, he used to blackmail and coerce her also towards giving money. Thus, the 1st defendant herein always was causing troubles to everyone of the family and the 1st defendant was also not in any position to help in running the family. He never cared for any family problems or for the betterment of family but often put them in corners. The plaintiff's father always used to advise the 1st defendant to lead a life without spoiling the reputation of the family which the 1st defendant did not at all care for. After his debacle at college, he refused to go to work preferring to live of his parents. He whiled away more time pretending to do post graduation (which he never completed) squandering the parents' money again. The parents, when he demanded money for staring a business lent him a huge amount, nevertheless, he caused all sorts of worries to the family. He continued being irresponsible and indisciplined. Till his retirement the father was leading a demanding career. But when he experienced 1st defendants bad behaviour, his heart broke. In utter dismay, father passed away soon after. Finally, his business had to be wound up. Despite plaintiff's mother asking him to return her money, he refused to do so. After marriage circa 1993, the 1st defendant continued harassing his elders more. Unable to tolerate his ill-treatment, his mother's health took a turn for the worse. She ordered him out threatening to go to the police otherwise. From then on, the plaintiffs alone have been looking after the family by serving their mother and grandmothers. However, even after being thrown out of the house, he continued coming to her for money for expenses. Since her health was fragile and wanting to avoid ugly scene, she continued providing for him. Hence, under these circumstances, the plaintiff's mother thought of executing a WILL so that the plaintiff's interest could be safeguarded. 5.	The learned Senior Counsel appearing for the petitioners would submit that these averments have been made in the complaint only out of good faith which would fall squarely under Exception 5 and 9 to Section 499 of IPC. The learned Senior Counsel would further submit that these averments are absolutely necessary for proving the issues involved in the civil suit because it is necessary for the petitioners to disprove the execution of the Will sought to be used by the complainant in his favour. The learned Senior Counsel would also submit that, as a matter of fact, during her life time, Mrs.Krishnakumari had executed a registered Will and the same has come into force after her demise. Before the civil court, it is submitted by the petitioners that the said Will is the last Will executed by the deceased and the Will which is now made use of by the respondent was not really executed by the deceased. The learned Senior Counsel would further submit that it cannot be stated that these averments, which according to the respondent are defamatory in nature, are absolutely unnecessary for the issues involved in the suit. These averments are necessary and relevant and the petitioners are prepared to prove the same before the civil court. Therefore, according to the learned Senior Counsel for the petitioners, the complaint is liable to be quashed. In order to draw support to the above arguments, the learned Senior Counsel has relied on a judgment of this Court in Geetha vs. A.K.Dhamodharan reported in CDJ 2011 MHC 3809 wherein in similar circumstances, a learned Judge of this Court (Hon'ble Justice R.Mala) has quashed the private complaint of an offence under Section 500 of IPC by making the following observations : 6.	The learned Senior Counsel has nextly relied on a judgment of the High Court of Andhra Pradesh in G.Janardhana Reddy v. A.Narayana Reddy and another reported in 2010 Crl.L.J.2660 wherein also similar view has been taken and complaint has been quashed. In paragraphs 9 and 10 of the judgment, the learned Judge has observed as follows: 7.	The learned Counsel appearing for the respondent would stoutly oppose this petition. According to him, Exception either 5 or 9 to Section 499 of IPC is to be pleaded and proved only at the time of trial. Plea of good faith cannot be presumed as the same requires to be proved. In the case on hand, though it is stated by the petitioners that these averments had been made out of good faith, it is for the criminal court to decide as to whether they have been made, out of good faith or not, on the basis of the evidence to be let in by both the parties. Thus, according to the learned Counsel for the respondent, it is too pre mature, at this stage, to presume good faith and quash the proceedings. 8.	Nextly, the learned Counsel for the respondent would submit that there is no bar at all for an aggrieved to file a private complaint alleging that he had been defamed warranting punishment under Section 500 of IPC for the accused, if defamatory statement has been made in the pleading in a civil suit. It is the contention of the learned Counsel that the pendency of the civil suit has got nothing to do with the criminal case. In other words, according to the learned Counsel for the respondent, there is no bar for filing a prosecution for defamation on the basis of the averments found in a pleading filed before the civil court. For this proposition, the learned Counsel has relied on a judgment of this Court in Thangavelu Chettiar v. Ponnammal reported in AIR 1966 Madras 363 wherein a learned Judge of this Court has held in para 5 of the said judgment as follows: 9.	The learned Counsel for the respondent has nextly relied on yet another judgment of this Court in Dr.J.Sudarshan v. Sankaran reported in 1992 Crl.L.J.2427 in which in para 14, the Honourable Judge has held as follows: 10.	The learned Counsel for the respondent would further contend that there is no need for the respondent to wait for the outcome of the civil suit and therefore, the present prosecution is maintainable. He would also submit that though it is possible for him to approach the civil court for striking out the above averments in the pleadings, that cannot be an impediment to the aggrieved to file the prosecution. Thus, according to the learned Counsel for the respondent, this petition is liable to be dismissed. 11.	I have considered the above submissions and I have also perused the materials available on record. 12.	At the outset, I want to state that as has been held by this Court consistently, there is no legal bar for filing a private complaint alleging that a party to a civil proceeding has made certain imputations in the pleadings before the civil court, which are per se defamatory. I am also clear that the pendency of the said civil suit is not an impediment for the aggrieved to file a private complaint. Without waiting for the final outcome of the suit, he can very well approach the criminal court by way of a private complaint seeking to punish the accused for defamatory statements made in the pleadings, provided the averments in the pleadings are totally unconnected to or unwarranted for the issues involved in the civil suit and they are per se defamatory. In any civil proceeding, it is absolutely necessary for the party concerned to make averments relevant to the issues. If such relevant averments are not made, the civil court may not permit the party to make a plea on that subject orally and also to lead evidence. It is common knowledge that in civil suits, there cannot be any evidence let in without there being relevant pleading. In this case, the petitioners have made averments touching upon the personal conduct and the relationship between the deceased and the respondent. According to the learned Senior Counsel for the petitioners, these averments are very much relevant for the civil court to decide as to whether the unregistered Will of the year 2005, which the respondent is projecting, would have been really executed by the deceased or not. The circumstances like the relationship between the deceased and the party in whose favour now the Will is projected and the love and affection between the parties are all relevant to this core issue as to whether the Will would have been executed by the deceased. Suppose, it is proved that the deceased was not in good terms with the respondent and they were fighting with each other frequently, it may be a circumstance to prove that the Will would not have been executed by the deceased in favour of the individual concerned. In the case on hand, the averments, which are stated to be defamatory, relate to the personal character of the respondent as well as his relationship with the deceased. These are all, in fact, relevant for the civil court to decide the issue as to whether the Will of the year, 2005 was really executed by the deceased or not. If these averments have not been made in the pleadings before the civil court, as I have already stated, the petitioners may not be permitted by the civil court to plead on that subject orally and lead evidence and as a result, they may not be in a position to disprove the Will. Therefore, it cannot be stated that these averments are totally unnecessary. 13. In this regard, it is useful to refer to Order VI Rule 16 of the Code of Civil Procedure which reads as follows: 14.	As per the said rule, if it is the case of the respondent that these averments are either unnecessary or scandalous, frivolous or vexatious or which may tend to prejudice the mind of the court, he could have very well made an application under this provision before the civil court seeking to strike out the above averments in the plaint. If any such petition is filed, certainly, the civil court would give a finding as to whether these averments have got any relevance to the issues involved in the suit and whether these averments are scandalous, frivolous and vexatious or they are in the nature of causing prejudice in the mind of the court. If only such a finding is given by the civil court, then, the respondent would be entitled to approach the criminal court that the statements are defamatory because they are scandalous. In my considered opinion, when the averments are very relevant to the issues involved in the suit and the suit is pending, the respondent is precluded to file a private complaint. 15.	This may also be viewed from a different angle. Let us assume that the present prosecution is allowed to continue further and if the criminal court holds that these statements are scandalous and accordingly punishes the accused and later on, the civil court gives a finding that they are not scandalous, frivolous, vexatious and holds that they are necessary to the issues involved in the suit, then, the said finding of the civil court will be contrary to the findings of the criminal court. Such a situation leading two courts of law to render two conflicting judgments cannot be permitted. Therefore, in my considered opinion, it is for the petitioners either to approach the respective civil court under Order VI Rule 16 or to wait till the final outcome of the civil suit and then to work out his remedies in the manner known to law. 16.	Now coming to the two judgments relied on by the learned Counsel for the respondent, in those two cases, the finding was that the statements were per se defamatory and they had no connection with the issues involved in the suit. I have got no different opinion as to what has been held in the said judgments of this court referred to above . 17.	As has been held by this Court in those two judgments, if the averments made in the pleading have got nothing to do with the issues involved in the suit and they are per se defamatory, certainly, the aggrieved shall have a right to file a private complaint for defamation against the accused who had made the defamatory averments in the pleadings before the civil court without waiting for the final outcome of the suit. As I have already concluded, if the averments in the pleading have got some relevance to the issues involved in the suit, it cannot be said that they are per se defamatory. It is because of this reason, I hold that the present prosecution is not maintainable. 18.	Now coming to the exception pleaded by the learned Senior Counsel for the petitioners, there can be no second opinion that a plea of good faith is a matter to be pleaded and proved. Good faith cannot be readily inferred. The term 'good faith' has been defined in Section 52 of the Indian Penal Code which reads as follows: 19. A close reading of the above definition would make one to clearly understand that if a statement has been made without due care and attention, then, it cannot be said that he acted in good faith. Here in this case, the petitioners have made these averments that are very relevant for the issues, which according to them have been stated with due care and attention. Whether these averments made by the petitioners in the plaint are statements of truth or not is going to be decided by the civil court because there is a relevant issue on the genuineness of the Will of the year, 2005. Therefore, it cannot be said at this stage that the petitioners have made the above averments without due care and attention. 20.	In view of the foregoing discussion, I hold that this is not a case where the statements are per se defamatory so as to disallow the plea of good faith at this stage so as to allow the respondent to go ahead with the prosecution. As I have already narrated, it is for the respondent to approach the civil court under Order VI Rule 16 of CPC . or to wait till the final outcome of the suit and thereafter to work out his remedies in the manner known to law. I only say that the present prosecution is highly premature and it would amount to abuse of process of court and so, the same cannot be allowed to go further. 21.	In view of all the above, this petition is allowed and the case in C.C.No.50/2012 on the file of the learned Judicial Magistrate No.VII, Coimbatore is hereby quashed, however, with liberty to the

respondent to work out his remedy as indicated above Consequently, connected Miscellaneous Petition is closed. 03.08.2012	
Index : Yes
Internet : Yes
tsi
			
	
To 1.The Judicial Magistrate No.VII,
 Coimbatore. 2. The Public Prosecutor,
 High Court, Madras. S.NAGAMUTHU, J. tsi CRL.O.P.No.10481 of 2012 03.08.2012