The petitioner is before this Court seeking a direction by

issuance of a writ in the nature of mandamus to respondents 2 and

3 to consider his representation 19-12-2022. The representation is 3 submitted for recalling of a Look Out Circular ('LOC' for short)

issued against the petitioner. 2. Shorn of unnecessary details, facts in brief that lead the

petitioner to this Court in the subject petition, as borne out from

the pleadings are as follows:- 3. The brother of the petitioner had been embroiled in certain

transactions which have become subject matter of proceedings

before the Enforcement Directorate. In furtherance of the said

proceedings, summons come be issued against the petitioner on

26-11-2021 directing him to appear before the 3rd respondent on

29-11-2021. The petitioner did appear before the 3rd respondent 4 and co-operated with the investigation. Since the petitioner was

working at Netherlands he had to return back to his job and

accordingly, owing to his employment condition, scheduled his

travel to Netherlands on 13-01-2022. The petitioner was issued a

boarding pass as well for such travel. At the time of boarding the

flight, the petitioner was stopped and restrained from proceeding

further. Stamping was made on the Visa of the petitioner as

cancelled. The petitioner then knocks at the doors of this Court in

Writ Petition No.1730 of 2022 on 24.01.2022 seeking to quash the

endorsement issued by the Passport Authorities on the Visa that it

is cancelled. The writ petition comes to be disposed of in terms of

an order dated 20.06.2022 declining to accept the contentions of

the petitioner while directing the petitioner to submit a

representation seeking recall/withdrawal of LOC issued against him,

pursuant to which, the petitioner submitted his representations on

21-09-2022 and 19-12-2022 indicating that he had rendered

complete co-operation to the investigation and, therefore, his need

in the investigation is not required. He also submitted that he is

not an accused in any crime registered under any law in the nation

and, therefore, the LOC should be withdrawn. Non-consideration of 5 the aforesaid representations is what drives the petitioner to this

Court yet again, seeking a mandamus for consideration of the said

representations. 4. Heard Sri Sandesh J.Chouta, learned senior counsel

appearing for the petitioner, Sri Aditya Singh, learned Central

Government Counsel appearing for respondents 1 and 2 and Sri

Madhukar Deshpande, learned counsel appearing for respondent

No.3. 5. The learned senior counsel appearing for the petitioner

would vehemently argue and contend that the petitioner is neither

an accused nor any complaint against him is registered under any

penal law in any of the predicate offences. He has been, without

any rhyme and reason, detained in this Country on account of him

being the brother of one Mr. Srikrishna who is the prime accused in

Crime No.153 of 2020. He would submit that fundamental right of

the petitioner cannot be taken away on any ground whatsoever. 6. The learned counsel Sri.Madhukar Deshapnde representing

the Enforcement Directorate ('ED') would submit that the petitioner 6 is not co-operating with the investigation. He has not divulged the

password of e-mails that are created for the purpose of transaction

of huge amounts between the accounts of the prime accused, his

father and the petitioner. It, therefore, becomes necessary for the

petitioner to be detained until he co-operates in the completion of

investigation. 7. In reply to the said submissions, the learned senior counsel

for the petitioner seeks to place reliance upon a slew of judgments.

He would take this Court to several judgments rendered by several

constitutional Courts. Reference to them would be made in the

course of this order as per their relevance. 8. I have given my anxious consideration to the submissions

made by the respective learned counsel and have perused the

material on record. 9. Before embarking upon merits of the matter, I deem it

appropriate to notice the office memoranda issued by Government

of India in the Ministry of Home Affairs from time to time. It would 7 suffice for the journey to commence from the judgment of the Delhi

High Court in the case of SUMER SINGH SALKAN v. ASSISTANT

DIRECTOR AND OTHERS1 wherein it is observed as follows: 9. It is further clear from the reply that in terms of
 a subsequent O.M. dated 27th December 2000 there is a
 specific proforma in which a request must be made for
 opening of an LOC and this should be issued "with the
 approval of an officer not below the rank of Deputy
 Secretary to the Government of India/Joint Secretary in
 the State Government/ Concerned Superintendent of
 Police at district level." A copy of the Office Memorandum
 dated 27th December 2000 enclosing pro-forma for
 request for opening an LOC has also been enclosed. 16. The question now is only for consequential
 relief that should be granted. The power to suspend, even
 temporarily, a passport of a citizen, the power to issue an
 LOC, the power to 'off-load' a passenger and prevent him
 or her from travelling are all extraordinary powers, vested
 in the criminal law enforcement agencies by the statutory
 law. These are powers that are required under the law, to 9 be exercised with caution and only by the authorities who
are empowered by law to do so and then again only for
valid reasons. Recently, in Suresh Nanda v. Union of
India , 2010 IV AD (Del) 53, this Court, after referring to
the judgment of the Supreme Court in Maneka
Gandhi v. Union of India , (1978) 1 SCC 248, observed: 17. In Bhim Singh v. State of J&K , (1985) 4 SCC
677, a member of the Jammu & Kashmir Legislate
Assembly was detained by the Police while on his way to
attend a session of the assembly. By the time the petition
filed by him challenging his detention was heard, he had
already been released. Nevertheless, the Supreme Court
examined the case and concluded that his detention was
unlawful. It then proceeded to award him compensation
after observing: This High Court concerning the issuance of LOC in Vikram
Sharma (Supra) gave following directions: (Emphasis supplied)

This judgment resulted in an Office Memorandum dated 27.10.2010

being issued by Government of India. The Office Memorandum

insofar as it is germane reads as follows: "".... .... .... "8. in accordance with the order dated 26.07.2010 of
 the High Court of Delhi, the matter has been discussed with the
 concerned agency and the following guidelines are hereby lied
 down regarding the issuance of LOC's in respect of Indian
 citizens and foreigners. a. The request for opening an LOC would be made
 Originating Agency (OA) two Deputy Director,
 Bureau of Immigration (BOI), East Block - VIII,
 R.K.Puram, New Delhi -66 (Telefax:011-2619244)
 Hindi proforma enclosed. b. The request for opening of LOC must invariably be
 issued with the approval of an officer not below the
 rank of - or (ii) Joint Secretary in the State Government; or (iii) District Magistrate of the District concerned; or (iv) Superintendent of Police (SP) of the District
 concerned; or 14 (v) SP in CBI or an officer of equal and level
 working in CBI; or (vi) Zonal Director in Narcotics Control Bureau
 (NCB) or an officer of equivalent level including
 Assistant Director (Ops.) in Headquarters of
 NCB); or (vii) Deputy Commissioner or an officer of equivalent
 level in the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence
 or Central Board of Direct Taxes or Central
 Board of excise and Customs; or (viii) Assistant Director of Intelligence Bureau/Bureau
 of Immigration (BOI); or (ix) Deputy Secretary of Research and Analysis
 Wing (R & AW); or (x) An officer not below the level of Superintendent
 of Police in National Investigation Agency; or (xi) Assistant Director of Enforcement Directorate; or (xii) Protector of emigrants in the office of the
 protector of emigrants are in office or not below
 the rank of deputy Secretary of the
 Government of India; or (xiii) Designated officer of Interpol. Further, LOC's can also be issued as per the direction of any
criminal court in India. c) The name and designation of the officer shining the
 proforma for requesting issuance of an LOC must
 invariably be mentioned without search request for
 issuance of LOC would not be entertained. 15 d) The contact details of the originator must be provided in
 column VI of the enclosed proforma. The contact
 telephone/mobile number of the respective control room
 should also be mentioned to ensure proper
 communication for effective follow-up actions. e) Care must be taken by the originality agency to ensure
 that complete Identifying particulars of a person, in
 respect of whom the LOC is to be opened, or. It should
 be noted that an LOC cannot be opened unless a
 minimum of three identifying parameters, as given in the
 enclosed profile, of set, are available. Have a work, LOC
 can also be issued if name and passport particulars of a
 person concerned are available. It is the responsibility of
 the originator to constantly review the LOC request and
 proactively provide additional parameters to minimise
 harassment to genuine passengers. f) The legal liability of the action taken by the immigration
 authority in pursuance of the LOC rest with originating
 agency. g) Recourse to LOC is to be taken in cognizable offence
 under IPC or other penal laws. The detail in column IV in
 the enclosed Proforma regarding reason for opening LOC
 invariably be provided without which the subject of an
 LOC will not be arrested/detained. h) In case where there is no cognizable offence under IPC or
 other penal laws the LOC subject cannot be detail/
 arrested or prevented from leaving the country. The
 originating agency can only request that they be informed
 about the arrival/ departure of the subject in such case. i) The LOC will be valid for a period of one year from the date
 of issue Name of the subject shall be automatically
 removed from the LOC thereafter unless the concerned
 agency request for its renewal within a period of 1 year.
 With effect from 01.01.2011. All LOC's with more than
 one year validity shall be deemed to have been lapsed
 unless the agency concerned specifically request BOI for
 communication of the person in the LOC. However this 16 provision for automatic deletion after 1 year shall be
 applicable in the following cases. a. Ban-entry LOC's issued for watching arrival of Wanted
 persons (which have a specific duration);

 b. loss of passport LOC's (which ordinarily continuous till
 the validity of the document); c. LOC's regarding impounding of passport;

 d. LOC's issued at behest of courts and interpol j) In exceptional cases LOC's can be issued without
 complete parameters and/ pr case detail against Cl
 suspects, terrorist, anti-national element, etc in larger
 National interest. k) the following procedures will be adopted in case of
 statutory bodies like NCW, the NHRC and national
 commission for protection of children's rights request for
 preventing Indian/ for from. Search our first to be
 brought to the notice of law enforcement Agencies like
 the police. The SP concerned with then makes the request
 for issuance of an LOC upon an assessment of the
 situation. The immigration/ immigration authorities will
 strictly go by the communication received from the officer
 authorised to open LOC's as details in para 8(b) above. 9. It is requested that the contents of this OM may be brought
 to the notice of all concerned for strict compliance. (Emphasis added)

Pursuant to the afore-mentioned judgment and the Office

Memorandum the LOCs were being issued following directions as

was directed in the aforesaid Office Memorandum. This Office

Memorandum has been tinkered and replaced from time to time. 17 The present Office Memorandum that is being operated by the

Government of India is the one issued on 22.02.2021 depicting

consolidated guidelines for issuance of Look Out Circular in respect

of Indian citizens and foreigners. The consolidated guidelines so

issued read as follows: 26192883, email: [email protected] ) in the enclosed
 Proforma. (B) The request for opening of LOC must invariably be
 issued with the approval of an Originating Agency
 that shall be an officer not below the rank of - (i) Deputy Secretary to the Government of India; or (ii) Joint Secretary in the State Government; or (iii) District Magistrate of the District concerned; or (iv) Superintendent of Police (SP) of the District
 concerned; or 18 (v) SP in CBI or an officer of equivalent level working
 in CBI; or (vi) Zonal Director in Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) or
 an officer of equivalent level [including Assistant
 Director (Ops.) in Headquarters of NCB); or (vii) Deputy Commissioner or an officer of
 equivalent level in the Directorate of
 Revenue Intelligence or Central Board of
 Direct Taxes or Central Board of Indirect
 Taxes and Customs; or (viii) Assistant Director of Intelligence
 Bureau/Bureau of Immigration (BOI); or (ix) Deputy Secretary of Research and Analysis
 Wing (R & AW); or (x) An officer not below the level of
 Superintendent of Police in National
 Investigation Agency; or (xi) Assistant Director of Enforcement Directorate; or (xii) Protector of Emigrants in the office of the
 Protectorate of Emigrants or an officer not
 below the rank of Deputy Secretary to the
 Government of India; or (xiii) Designated officer of Interpol; or (xiv) An officer of Serious Fraud Investigation
 Office (SFIO), Ministry of Corporate Affairs
 not below the rank of Additional Director (in
 the rank of Director in the Government of
 India); or (xv) Chairman / Managing Directors / Chief
 Executive of all Public Sector Banks. (C) LOC can also be issued as per directions of any
 Criminal Court in India. In all such cases, request
 for opening of LOC shall be initiated by the local
 police or by any other Law Enforcement Agencies
 concerned so that all parameters for opening LOCs
 are available. (D) The name and designation of the officer signing the
 Proforma for requesting issuance of an LOC must
 invariably be mentioned without which the request
 for issuance of LOC would not be entertained.

(E) The contact details of the Originator must be provided in
 column VI of the enclosed Proforma. The contact
 telephone/mobile number of the respective control room
 should also be mentioned to ensure proper
 communication for effective follow up action. Originator
 shall also provide the following additional information in
 column VI of the enclosed Proforma to ensure proper
 communication for effective follow up action:- (iii) Mobile numbers of at least two officials, one of
 whom shall be the originator

(F) Care must be taken by the Originating Agency to ensure
 that complete Identifying particulars of the person, in
 respect of whom the LOC is to be opened, are indicated in
 the Proforma mentioned above. It should be noted that
 an LOC cannot be opened unless a minimum of three
 identifying parameters viz. name & parentage, passport
 number or Date of Birth are available. However, LOC can
 also be issued if name and passport particulars of the
 person concerned are available. It is the responsibility of
 the originator to constantly review the LOC requests and
 proactively provide additional parameters to minimize
 harazzment to genuine passengers. Details of
 Government identity cards like PAN Card, Driving License, 20 Aadhaar Card, Voter Card etc, may also be included in the
 request for opening LOC. (G) The legal liability of the action taken by the immigration
 authorities in pursuance of the LOC rests with the
 originating agency

(H) Recourse to LOC is to be taken in cognizable
 offences under IPC or other penal laws. The details
 in column IV in the enclosed Proforma regarding
 'reason for opening LOC' must invariably be
 provided without which the subject of an LOC will
 not be arrested/detained. (I) In cases where there is no cognizable offence under IPC and other penal laws, the LOC subject cannot
 be detained/arrested or prevented from leaving the
 country. The Originating Agency can only request
 that they be informed about the arrival /departure
 of the subject in such cases. (J) The LOC opened shall remain in force until and
 unless a deletion request is received by Bol from
 the Originator itself. No LOC shall be deleted
 automatically. Originating Agency must keep
 reviewing the LOCs opened at its behest on
 quarterly and annual basis and submit the
 proposals to delete the LOC. if any, immediately
 after such a review. The BOI should contact the LOC
 Originators through normal channels as well as
 through the online portal. In all cases where the
 person against whom LOC has been opened is no
 longer wanted by the Originating Agency or by
 Competent Court, the LOC deletion request must be
 conveyed in Bol immediately so that liberty of the
 individual is not jeopardized. (K) On many occasions, persons against whom LOCs are
 issued, obtain Orders regarding LOC
 deletion/quashing/suspension from Courts and approach
 ICPs for LOC deletion and seek their departure. Since
 ICPs have no means of verifying genuineness of the Court
 Order, in all such cases, orders for deletion/ 21 quashing/suspension etc. of LOC, must be communicated
 to the Bol through the same Originator who requested for
 opening of LOC. Hon'ble Courts may be requested by the
 Law Enforcement Agency concerned to endorse/convey
 orders regarding LOC suspension/ deletion/quashing etc.
 to the same law enforcement agency through which LOC
 was opened. (L) In exceptional cases, LOCs can be issued even in
 such cases, may not be covered by the guidelines
 above, whereby departure of a person from India
 may be declined at the request of any of the
 authorities mentioned in clause (B) above, if it
 appears to such authority based on inputs received
 that the departure of such person is detrimental to
 the sovereignty or security or integrity of India or
 that the same is detrimental to the bilateral
 relations with any country or to the strategic
 and/or economic interests of India or if such
 person is allowed to leave, he may potentially
 indulge in an act of terrorism or offences against
 the State and/or that such departure ought not be
 permitted in the larger public interest at any given
 point in time. (M) The following procedure will be adopted in case
 statutory bodies like the NCW, the NHRC and the
 National Commission for Protection of Children's
 Rights request for preventing any Indian/ foreigner
 from leaving India. Such requests along with full
 necessary facts shall be brought to the notice of law
 enforcement agencies like the police. The
 Superintendent of Police (S.P.) concerned will then
 make the request for issuance of an LOC upon an
 assessment of the situation, and strictly in terms of
 the procedure outlined for the purpose. The
 immigration/emigration authorities will strictly go
 by the communication received from the officers
 authorized to open LOCs as detailed in Clause (B)
 above. (N) For effective and better interception of LOC subjects,
 following guidelines shall be followed by the Originator:- 22 7. It is requested that the consolidated guidelines as contained in
 this O.M. may be brought to the notice of all concerned for strict
 compliance." (Emphasis added)

In terms of the afore-quoted guidelines pursuant to the judgment of

the Delhi High Court in the case of SUMER SINGH SALKAN and

the one that is now being operated would unmistakably indicate a

slew of procedure that is to be followed for issuance of LOC; a

request for opening an LOC would be made by the originating

agency to the Deputy Director, Bureau of Immigration on a

particular subject i.e., a citizen. Therefore, there are three

protagonists in the episode - (i) the subject, the citizen, (ii) the

originating agency, one who requests issuance of an LOC and (iii) executing agency who executes the request of the originating

agency to execute the LOC and stop the travel of the subject

beyond the shores of this nation. Such an LOC can be sought by the

originating agency in certain cases where cognizable offences under

the IPC or other penal laws are registered against the subject.

Even in cases where there are no cognizable offences registered

under the IPC or any other penal law, the originating agency can 24 only request about the arrival and departure of the subject in such

cases. In exceptional cases, LOC can be issued even in those cases

which are not covered under the guidelines whereby departure of a

person from India could be declined if it appears that the inputs

received on the subject that his departure would be detrimental to

the sovereignty or security or integrity of India or he may

potentially indulge in an act of terrorism. The LOC originating from

Court orders is also one of those species that would result in

issuance of an LOC. This is the broad frame work of the guidelines

under which an LOC can be issued against a subject. On the

bedrock of the aforesaid guidelines, the case of the petitioner will

have to be considered. 10. The petitioner is issued summons on 26-11-2021 after his

arrival and stay in India for more than three months by the ED for

investigation or questioning in a criminal case registered against

one Mr. Srikrishna, brother of the petitioner in Crime No.153 of

2020. On registration of the crime against several persons, the ED

also registers an Enforcement Case Information Report in ECIR

No.1 of 2021 which was registered on 04-01-2021. Therefore, 25 there are two proceedings pending against the brother and father of

the petitioner and several others in the predicate offence or under

the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 ('PMLA" for short). 11. It is the allegation that his brother Mr. Srikrishna is the

prime accused in the aforesaid cases who had hacked poker

websites and bit-coin exchanges and thereby had made high value

transactions within and outside the country. The brother of the

petitioner is said to have converted crypto currencies and traded

them in international platforms and had amassed wealth by such

illegal gains which formed proceeds of crime. Summons was issued

to the brother and father of the petitioner under Section 50 of the

PML Act. Statements were recorded regarding involvement of the

brother of the petitioner in hacking of crypto exchanges and poker

websites in India and overseas from 2013 up to date. 12. It is the case of the ED that the brother of the petitioner

had admitted in those statements that proceeds have been utilized

for illicit activities such as narcotics, travel, parties and stay at 26 luxurious hotels etc. A separate case has also been registered

against the brother of the petitioner for stealing bitcoins and

purchasing narcotics on line through Darkweb in Crime No.91 of

2020. These are the proceedings against the brother of the

petitioner. The proceedings in ECIR 4 of 2020 comes to be

registered on the strength of the FIR in Crime No.9 of 2019

registered by the Crime Investigation Department Police with

regard to hacking of e-procurement portal of Government of

Karnataka and thieving of `11.55 crores from the Government

portal Bank account. It is during investigation of the said hacking,

the name of the brother of the petitioner comes about and the

brother gives a statement of involvement in those alleged crimes.

This is the story about the genesis of the crime. 13. The petitioner claims to have come to India to see his

ailing father on 12-08-2021 and was in India for about 3 months up

to the date on which he was issued summons by the ED. The

allegation is that the petitioner is not co-operating with the

investigation as he has not divulged the passwords that are

necessary for completion of investigation by the ED. It is the case 27 of the ED that there is serious apprehension of the petitioner

escaping the jurisdiction of the investigation and fleeing out of the

country and settle in Netherlands. 14. On the aforesaid grounds, the sword of LOC was kept

hanging on the petitioner. As observed hereinabove, the petitioner

has knocked at the doors of this Court in Writ Petition No.1730 of

2022. All the present contentions were taken up before the co-

ordinate Bench. The co-ordinate Bench in terms of its order dated

20-06-2022, after recording all the submissions disposed of the

petition by the following order: (Emphasis supplied)

The co-ordinate Bench recorded that the petitioner was not

co-operating with the investigation as he is not divulging the

passport or the password of e-mail account and is not divulging

receipt of 50,000 pounds from his brother through Bank transfer

and further transfer from his account to one Mr. Hanish Patel. The

observations of the co-ordinate Bench of this Court in the aforesaid

order is as follows: (Emphasis supplied) 30 Therefore, this Court recorded the submissions of the ED that the

petitioner is not co-operating with the investigation. He is even now

not divulged the fact of receipt of huge amount and further transfer

to third party viz., Sri Hanish Patel, who is a resident of UK, owning

an entity by name GCP UK Limited. This Court declined to issue a

direction to recall the LOC. But, reserved liberty to the petitioner to

submit a request for withdrawal of LOC issued against him.

Therefore, two representations were submitted by the petitioner,

the latest being on 19-12-2022. Noticing certain paragraphs of the

said representation assumes certain significance and is, therefore,

extracted for the purpose of ready reference: 13. I further reiterate that I have no role in any of the
alleged offences and further request your co-operation in 33 permitting me to travel abroad in order to enable me to resume
my employment. 14. More particularly, since 1-06-2022, I have not been
issued any summons by your good office. Suffice to state that, I
have no role in any of the alleged offences as forthcoming in
your investigation. 15. In the event of continued operation of the LOC issued
against me and the subsequent restriction on my travel, I have
been straddled irreparable consequences and shall further face
graver consequences as mentioned below: (C) Due to the above loss of pay, my father is deprived
 of opportune medical care and treatment required
 for his poor and ailing health condition. The same is
 also adversely affecting the day-to-day needs of
 my aged mother and that of my family. (D) Due to my over stay beyond the permissible limit
 outside of the Netherlands, the Immigration
 Authorities in the Netherlands have initiated the
 process to cancel my residence permit. Cancellation
 of my residence permit would automatically compel
 my Employer to permanently terminate my
 employment since the continued operation of the
 resident permit is a pre-requisite for having work
 permit. (E) My Employer has stated that I will face further
 consequences with respect to my employment if I
 do not report back to the Netherlands on or before
 January 2023. I apprehend that if I am unable to 34 travel back to the Netherlands by then, I will face
 termination of my employment. All of the above consequences shall have irreparable
 consequences for the rest of my life and that of my family
 members. In such circumstances, I would once again urge your
 good offices to lift the LOC issued against me. Due to the grave and imminent consequences as
 mentioned above, I kindly request you to consider my
 representation within a period of two weeks from today."

The petitioner submits that his employment will be lost, if he is not

permitted to go and join his duties and his right to livelihood would

be taken away. But, he does not indicate the keys, the password or

any other information that is necessary for completion of

investigation. Any amount of judgments could be quoted to drive

home the point that fundamental right of a person is taken away

but all of them with a rider that one should co-operate with the

investigation. An accused or any other person who is connected

with the proceeds of crime, but may not be accused in the predicate

offence, has a bounden duty to co-operate with the investigation. If

the investigation does not get completed on account of his non-

cooperation which would result against others not being taken to

logical conclusion, it would defeat the delivery of justice as it would

defeat discovery of crime. Therefore, it is for the petitioner to give 35 complete details and desist answering vaguely to the ED, explain as

to why temporary mails were created for transactions and reveal

the password that the ED is asking. Therefore, his travel beyond

the shores of this nation will be subject to such clearance by the

ED. 15. It cannot also be ignored by the ED that the petitioner

cannot be kept on tenterhooks by the sword of LOC hanging on him

for all time to come. The LOC is issued on 13.01.2022 and more

than a year has passed by. The ED shall also bear in mind plethora

of judgments rendered by constitutional Courts from time to time

where emphasize is on the right to travel abroad being a

fundamental right. A positive direction is not rendered in the

peculiar facts of the case at hand. It is the allegation that the

petitioner is not co-operating with the investigation. This cannot be

the swan song for the ED by not summoning the petitioner for

questioning or concluding the investigation. Therefore, I deem it

appropriate to direct the Enforcement Directorate to complete the

investigation insofar as the petitioner is concerned, within an outer

limit of 6 weeks from the date of receipt copy of the order for 36 which, the petitioner shall co-operate and give such information

that is necessary for completion of such investigation. After 6

weeks', the ED shall consider the representation of the petitioner

for withdrawal of LOC issued against him. Therefore, both the

petitioner and the ED would be bound by the conditions stipulated

hereinabove. 16. For the aforesaid reasons, the following: Sd/- JUDGE

bkp
CT:MJ