This criminal petition is filed under Section 528 of Bharatiya

Nyaya Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 by the petitioner/A.14 seeking the

Court to quash the proceedings against him in Cr.No.129 of 2023

of Central Crime Station, Detective Department, Hyderabad and to

set aside the order dated 28.11.2024 passed in Crl.M.P.No.231 of

2024 in Cr.No.129 of 2023 by the Sessions Judge, Hyderabad. The

offences alleged against the petitioner are under Sections 406, 419

and 420 r/w. Section 34 of Indian Penal Code and under Section

66-D of the Information and Technology Act, 2000. 2. The brief facts of the case are that on 06.04.2023 the defacto

complainant lodged a complaint before the police stating that he

was defrauded of Rs.1,86,93,500/- through online trading platform

named Lexatrade. The FIR claims that the transactions were

facilitated by multiple payment gateways including the petitioner

herein Unocoin Technologies Private Limited and the accused

manipulated the complainant in making repeated payments on

various pretexts including stabilizing trade, bank commissions and -2- rolling commissions eventually locking him out of his trading

account. Hence, requested the police to take necessary action

against the accused. Basing on the said complaint, police

registered the case against the accused for the above offences. 3. Heard Ms. Rubaina S Katoon, learned Counsel appearing for

the petitioner, Mrs K. Kishanmayee, learned counsel appearing for

respondent No.2, Sri Sujit Sasidharan, learned counsel appearing

for respondent No.3 and Sri M.Vivekananda Reddy, learned

Assistant Public Prosecutor appearing for the respondent-State. 4. The contention of learned counsel for the petitioner is that

Unocoin Technologies Private Limited i.e., petitioner herein was a

technology-based company incorporated under the Companies Act,

1956 , with Corporate Identification Number (CIN): 5. Learned counsel further contended that the defacto

complainant filed Crl.M.P.No.231 of 2024 before the trial Court to

defreeze the account of accused and to transfer an amount of

Rs.1,86,93,500/- into his account bearing No.10329749259 and -4- that amount was in various gateway companies. The trial Court

without giving notice to this petitioner allowed the said petition

and this petitioner is no way connected with any of the offences

alleged against the petitioner. Hence, as an intermediary platform

they use it for their business purpose. As such, requested the

Court to refund the said amount and also to quash the

proceedings against this petitioner. 6. On the other hand learned Assistant Public Prosecutor

opposed the same stating that there are serious allegations against

this petitioner also. At this stage, it cannot be decided whether the

petitioner herein is only an intermediary platform or it has any role

in the said offence, which can be known only after investigation.

Further, investigation is not yet completed, as such, prayed this

Court to dismiss this petition. 7. The respondent No.2 filed counter stating that there are

specific allegations in the complaint that all the accused have

dishonestly intended to deceive the defacto complainant and all of

them conspired together and fraudulently induced him to deliver a

sum of Rs.1,86,93,500/- for getting wrongful gain to them and

there is no special law governing crypto exchanges in India. The -5- existing norms should not govern the petitioner to do such illegal

activities. The present fraud is done using the platform of

petitioner. As such, petitioner is also liable for prosecution and

requested the Court to dismiss this petition. 8. Respondent No.3 filed counter opposing the petition stating

that they have transferred an amount of Rs.36,58,350/- to

respondent No.2 account basing on the directions of the criminal

Court and also direction given by the ACP, CCS Police. As such,

requested this Court to dismiss this petition. 9. Considering the submissions made by the respective counsel

and the material placed on record, the first contention of petitioner

herein is that without giving any notice, the trial Court disposed of

Crl.M.P.No.231 of 2024 and de-freezed the account of petitioner

herein and transferred the amount from the account of petitioner

company to the defacto complainant. The trial Court passed the

order in Crl.M.P., on 28.11.2024 and this criminal petition is filed

on 24.12.2024, wherein by that time, the amount was already

transferred to the account of defacto complainant. Therefore, now

there is no remedy to remand back the same for hearing the

petitioner herein. 10. The second contention of petitioner herein is that it is an

intermediary platform which is a gateway for business

transactions. Therefore, there is no dishonest intention on the

part of petitioner whereas the transactions are done on the

platform which is only an intermediary and gateway company.

According to the petitioner it is doing the business of crypto

currency in Bitcoin and transferring virtual digital assets such as

Ethereum and USDT and others. Whether petitioner is having

dishonest intention or it is only a gateway company has to be

decided during the course of investigation, now it is only at the FIR

stage and investigation is still pending according to learned

assistant Public Prosecutor. Therefore, at this stage, the petitioner

is not entitled for quashing of the proceedings and the same is

liable to be dismissed. 11. Accordingly, the Criminal Petition is dismissed. Miscellaneous petitions, if any, pending shall stand closed. _______________
 K. SUJANA, J
Date :20.08.2025
Rds