1. Heard learned counsels appearing for the parties. 2. By this writ petition, the petitioner has prayed for the

 following reliefs:- such credit cooperative societies which are either
 registered under Rajasthan Cooperative Societies Act,
 2001 or under The Multi-State Cooperative Societies Act,
 2002 , could be stopped and necessary directions, may
 kindly be issued for refund of money of public, with
 interest, who have invested money with these societies or
 a committee may kindly be directed to be appointed under
 supervision of Reserve Bank of India, to find out the ways
 for solution of the problem. (iii) By an appropriate writ, order or direction, the
 registration certificate of the private respondent credit
 cooperative societies, and others if found doing banking
 activities, may kindly be seized and the properties of such
 societies may kindly be taken over by the Government, by
 appointing administrator so as to protect the public money,
 in larger public interest. (iv) Any other order or direction which the Hon'ble Court
 deems fit and proper may kindly be passed in the matter. 3. On 19.11.2014, this Court passed following order:- 12. Let a reply be filed by the Reserve Bank of India,
Central Registrar of Multi-Cooperative Society as well as
Registrar, Rajasthan Cooperative Society within four
weeks. 13. As an interim measure, until further orders, the
Central Registrar, Multi-State Cooperative Society, New
Delhi, the Registrar, Cooperative Society, Rajasthan,
Jaipur, the District Collectors, Barmer, Jaisalmer and
Jodhpur and Director General of Police, Rajasthan will
ensure that respondents Nos.9 to 12 or any other Multi-
State Cooperative Society or the State Cooperative
Society do not carry on any banking business in the State
of Rajasthan, unless they have a licence under the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 . These cooperative
societies will not be allowed to carry on banking business
namely, to take deposits, opening branches for its
 D.B. CIVIL WRIT PETITION NO.26/2013
 Sajjan Singh Bhati Vs. State of Rajasthan & Ors. 5 banking activities, installation and running of ATMs and
 distributing loans to the depositors. The respondents will
 not allow any banking business by the Multi-State
 Cooperative Society and the District Cooperative Society
 unless they have licence from the Reserve Bank of India
 under the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 . 14. The petitioner is also directed to file audited
 balance-sheet of Mateshwari Credit Cooperative Society
 and the latest income-tax returns filed by it. The
 petitioner will also give details of the settlement of the
 accounts of the claimants including those who has filed
 FIRs. The entire financial statement of Mateshwari Credit
 Cooperative Society may be filed within four weeks. List on 04.02.2015. 4. An application for clarification was made, on which, an

order was passed on 18.03.2015 which is as follows:- D.B. CIVIL WRIT PETITION NO.26/2013
 Sajjan Singh Bhati Vs. State of Rajasthan & Ors. 6 As desired under the order aforesaid, a reply to the
writ petition has already been filed by the Reserve Bank
of India stating therein that "the role of the RBI in the
regulation and supervision of co-operative societies is
limited to those of "co-operative banks". Co-operative
societies that are not accepting deposits from the public
(non-members) do not fall within the regulatory purview
of RBI. However, those co-operative societies that are
carrying on the business of "banking" are required to
obtain a license from RBI. RBI does not have any
information regarding the business carried on by
respondent Nos.9 to 12." Today the matter came up before us on the
applications preferred by some of the cooperative
societies seeking modification of the directions given on
19.11.2014. At the threshold Shri M.S.Singhvi, learned counsel
appearing on behalf of respondent Sanjivani Credit
Cooperative Society Ltd., states that conduct of the
petitioner disentitles him to approach this Court by
claiming this petition for writ in public interest. We are not inclined to entertain the preliminary
objection raised being already considered and decided by
this Court on 19.11.2014. In the order aforesaid this
Court arrived at the conclusion that the petitioner has not
approached the Court with any ulterior motive or ill-will. Shri Ravi Bhansali, learned counsel appearing on
behalf of respondent Union of India submits that the
Registrar, Cooperative Societies, New Delhi has already
initiated inspection of the respondent cooperative
societies except the respondent No.11 to ensure that the
societies may not undertake banking activities or any
activity i.e. not in consonance with the applicable by-laws
and the provisions of Multi State Cooperative Societies
Act, 2002 . Learned counsels appearing on behalf of the
respondents Nos.9 to 13 states that the cooperative
societies are neither involved in banking activities nor
intend to do so. According to them the activities of the
societies are confined to the projects necessary for
achieving aims and objects accepted in their by-laws. On behalf of the respondent No.13, it is stated that
the society is involved purely in socio economic activities
pertaining to its members. The society never issued any
advertisements introducing its activities to public at large.
According to learned counsels the respondents Nos.1 to 8
are not permitting the cooperative societies even to carry
on activities for which they are legally entitled as per
applicable by-laws, the Multi State Cooperative Societies
Act, 2002 and the Rajasthan Cooperative Societies Act,
2001, as the case may be. D.B. CIVIL WRIT PETITION NO.26/2013
 Sajjan Singh Bhati Vs. State of Rajasthan & Ors. 7 We have considered the arguments advanced. The petitioner has approached this Court to stop
banking activities by the respondent cooperative societies
who are not having requisite licence as per provisions of
the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 . Some of the
advertisements published in different news papers on
behalf of respondents Sanjivani Credit Cooperative
Society Ltd. and Navjivan Credit Cooperative Society Ltd.
indicate about involvement of the societies in banking
activities, however, at this stage we do not want to give
any definite finding in this regard but certainly we desire
to record our displeasure about such misleading publicity
undertaken by the societies. We are also of considered
opinion that the respondent societies are not entitled to
undertake any banking activity without having licence
under the Act of 1949. Looking to the factual position noticed above we
deem it appropriate to dispose of the applications with
following directions as interim measures :- to allure public at large to become its member or to
 avail benefit of its scheme without getting such
 advertisement approved by the Registrar, Multi State
 Cooperative Societies or the Registrar, Rajasthan State
 Cooperative Societies, as the case may be; 6. The Directors and other elected/nominated/appointed
 office bearers of the respondent cooperative societies
 shall furnish details of their identity, addresses and
 property (immovable as well as movable) to Deputy
 Registrar (Judicial) of this Court within a period of 15
 days from today; and 7. The Registrar Multi State Cooperative Society, New
 Delhi and the Registrar, Cooperative Societies
 Rajasthan shall ensure compliance of the directions
 given by periodical inspection of the record of the
 respondent cooperative societies falling within their
 jurisdiction and also to report this Court about their
 functioning. Put up on 20.04.2015." 5. It is stated by learned counsel appearing for the

respondent - Cooperative Societies, in which the respondent

No.9 is Multi-State Cooperative Society that they are carrying

on business strictly in accordance with the provisions of the Rajasthan Cooperative Societies Act, 2001 and the Multi-State

Cooperative Societies Act, 2002 , under which, they are entitled

on the registration of the Cooperative Society and a Multi-State

Cooperative Society to accept the deposits from its members.

Reference has been made to the provisions of Section 50 and 51 of the Rajasthan Cooperative Societies Act, 2001 and the

provisions of Section 49(2)(h)(k) and (l) and Section 67 of the

Multi-State Cooperative Societies Act, 2002 as well as the Bye-

laws of the Cooperative Societies registered under the Rajasthan Cooperative Societies Act, 2001 and with the Central

Registrar under the Multi-State Cooperative Societies Act, 2002 D.B. CIVIL WRIT PETITION NO.26/2013
 Sajjan Singh Bhati Vs. State of Rajasthan & Ors. 9 to justify the deposits and borrowings. 6. Learned counsel appearing for the petitioner submits that

respondents Cooperative Societies are not Cooperative Banks

under the State or the Central Act. They are Cooperative

Societies carrying banking business as prescribed under Section

22 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 ('the Act of 1949'). It is

submitted that Section 5(b) of the Act of 1949 defines "banking"

and Section 22 of the Act of 1949 prohibits banking business

unless accepted after obtaining licence. Section 5(b) and Section

22(1) of the Act of 1949 are quoted as follows:- 22. Licensing of banking companies.- (1) Save as
 hereinafter provided, no company shall carry on banking
 business in India unless it holds a licence issued in that
 behalf by the Reserve Bank and any such licence may be
 issued subject to such conditions as the Reserve Bank
 may think fit to impose." 7. It is submitted by learned counsel for the petitioner that

Reserve Bank of India regulates banking business in respect of

all the banking activities carried out by the banks under the Act

of 1949. The Act of 1949 provides for Regulations, under which,

the Reserve Bank of India is under obligation to control the

banking business. In case, Cooperative Societies and the Multi-

State Cooperative Societies are allowed to do banking without a

licence, the Regulations of Reserve Bank of India would cease to

have control over banking business and would give rise to an

anamolous situation effecting the economy of the country. It is

submitted that Sanjivani Credit Cooperative Society - D.B. CIVIL WRIT PETITION NO.26/2013
 Sajjan Singh Bhati Vs. State of Rajasthan & Ors. 10 respondent No.9 is a Multi-State Cooperative Society. It has

transacted banking to the extent of more than 200 crores,

which has been invested in the banks and for giving personal

loans, mortgage and yearly loans, of which, details are not

provided in the balance-sheet. With a paid up share capital of

Rs.504600/-, it has accepted deposits of Rs.2772707754/- in

various schemes of interest rates of 18% to 32% per annum

which is much above the rates permitted by the Reserve Bank of

India. The loans and advances of Rs.2700930526.25 are not

reflected clearly in the balance-sheet nor sufficient securities in

giving such loans and advances are taken. There are several

deposit scheme such as Sanjivani Gullak Yojna, Sanjivani Super

Scheme, Sanjivani Pension Yojana etc., which are widely

advertised in general public is attracted to deposit money on the

attractive prizes of Cell Phone, Motor Cycle, Car etc. These

deposits are not secured. There is no security in terms of RBI

and SEBI guidelines for investors. The Regulations such as Cash

Reserve Ratio and Statutory Liquidity Ratio are not applicable to

Cooperative and Multi State Cooperative Socities leaving

investors' fund at risk. Although it is stated that nominal

members are not given loans, most of the loans are given to the

nominal members for which the complaints have been made and

enquiries are pending with the Registrar, Rajasthan Cooperative

Societies and the Central Registrar, Cooperative Societies, in

which, investigations having not been made. 8. It is submitted by learned counsel appearing for the

Registrar, Cooperative Societies and the Central Registrar,
 D.B. CIVIL WRIT PETITION NO.26/2013
 Sajjan Singh Bhati Vs. State of Rajasthan & Ors. 11 Cooperative Societies that they do not have any machinery to

investigate the complaints and to carry out the investigation.

They hand over these complaints to the machinery of the State

Government with no effective steps taken so far. 9. Learned counsel appearing for the Reserve Bank of India

has categorically stated that no banking as defined under Section

5(b) of the Act of 1949 can be carried out without a licence

under Section 22 of the Act of 1949. In paragraphs 2,4,5,6 & 7

of the reply filed on behalf of Reserve Bank of India, Shri

Shekhar Choudhary, Assistant General Manager, Department of

Cooperative Banking Supervision, Reserve Bank of India -

Officer-incharge has stated as follows:- 10. Learned counsel for the Registrar, Rajasthan Cooperative

Societies also appearing for the Central Registrar under the Multi-State Cooperative Societies Act, 2002 , states that both the

charges are held by the Registrar, Rajasthan Cooperative

Societies and that these societies can carry out business in
 D.B. CIVIL WRIT PETITION NO.26/2013
 Sajjan Singh Bhati Vs. State of Rajasthan & Ors. 13 accordance with the registered bye-laws. He, however, admits

that banking business can only be carried out only in accordance

with the licence under Section 22 of the Act of 1949. 11. The issue involved in this writ petition is whether a

Cooperative Society registered under the Rajasthan Cooperative

Societies Act, 2001 or a Multi-State Cooperative Society

registered under the Multi-State Cooperative Societies Act, 2002 is entitled to carry on banking business without a licence under Section 22 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949? 12. Learned counsel appearing for the respondent No.9

registered under the Multi-State Cooperative Societies Act, 2002 states that respondent No.9, is permitted to carry out the

business other than the banking business in accordance with the

provisions of the Multi-State Cooperative Societies Act, 2002 and the registered bye-laws. It is submitted that after the order

was passed by this Court on 19.11.2014. the respondent No.9

has stopped deposits from nominal members. It has stopped

ATMs which were installed within the premises of the Society,

and that no cheque books are issued. The facility of deposits

and loans are given only to the regular members in accordance

with the provisions of the bye-laws. He submits that activity of

the respondent No.9 in accepting deposit and giving loans is not

a banking activity as deposits are not accepted from public. He

submits that Cooperative Society is formed for the benefits of

members and that a Cooperative Society can carry on its

business within the purview of the provisions of the Rajasthan

Cooperative Societies Act, 2001 and the Multi-State Cooperative
 D.B. CIVIL WRIT PETITION NO.26/2013
 Sajjan Singh Bhati Vs. State of Rajasthan & Ors. 14 Societies Act, 2002 and its registered bye-laws. It does not

require a licence under the Act of 1949. It is submitted that the

petitioner was also running a Cooperative Society in which

deposits were accepted. This Court has directed an enquiry into

the affairs of the petitioner both as Director of the Cooperative

Society and as Advocate and that Superintendent of Police is

carrying out the enquiry. The petitioner has not filed balance-

sheet and the income tax returns despite direction issued by the

Court and thus, he is not entitled to maintain the writ petition. 13. After hearing learned counsels for the parties, we are of

the view that activities carried out by the respondents Nos.9 to

12 as Cooperative Societies may be within the purview of

legitimate business under the Rajasthan Cooperative Societies

Acdt, 2001 and the Multi-State Cooperative Societies Act, 2002 and the registered bye-laws, these activities in accepting for the

purpose of lending and investment, the deposit from the public,

repayment on demand and its withdrawal, fall within the

definition of "banking" under Section 5(b) of the Act of 1949.

The word "public" in the definition of the word "banking" cannot

be restricted to general public. The word "public" will also

include those persons who are nominal members, ordinary

members and the members of any category under the bye-laws

of the Cooperative Society so long as deposits are accepted

without any restriction from such members who may be enrolled

as members on the same day at the time of accepting deposits.

Even the person enrolled as nominal member, does not fall

outside the purview of the word "public" and that any deposits
 D.B. CIVIL WRIT PETITION NO.26/2013
 Sajjan Singh Bhati Vs. State of Rajasthan & Ors. 15 from the members on interest and for which amount is to be

repayable on demand or otherwise, is an activity which amounts

to banking activity. 14. We do not find any material or any assertion that there is

any restriction for enrollment of members for making deposits.

This virtually amounts that any member of general public, who

wants to make deposit, can seek membership, which is readily

granted to him. In this manner, there is no restriction in any of

the member of the general public to become a nominal member

or ordinary member or member of any class of the society and

make deposits in the Cooperative Societies. 15. Even if facility of withdrawal by cheque is not provided,

the words, "and otherwise", for repayment under Section 5(b) will cover the activity of the societies as banking activities, for

which, they are required to take out licence under Section 22 of

the Act of 1949 and to be regulated by the Regulations of

Reserve Bank of India for security of the investors. On

26.03.2014, the Joint Secretary to the Government of India and

Central Registrar of Cooperative Societies has written a letter to

the Registrar, Cooperative Societies of all States informing that

Reserve Bank of India (RBI) is of the view that acceptance of

deposit from nominal members by Multi State Credit

Cooperative Societies may have to be construed as accepting

deposit from Public and carrying out banking activity. The RBI

has instructed that Multi State Credit Cooperative Societies shall,

henceforth, discontinue accepting deposit from nominal

members. The letter dated 26.03.2014 is quoted as under:- 16. We are concerned here with the protection of the general

public which includes members, nominal members, ordinary

members and members of any category under the bye-laws of

Cooperative Societies. A large number of instances have come

to notice and it is admitted by learned counsel appearing for the

Registrar, Rajasthan Cooperative Societies that a number of

Cooperative Societies offering attractive 'Ponzi' schemes have

vanished after accepting the deposits from members leaving

their investments in jeopardy. D.B. CIVIL WRIT PETITION NO.26/2013
 Sajjan Singh Bhati Vs. State of Rajasthan & Ors. 17 17. The activities of the Cooperative Societies in the State of

Rajasthan have clearly demonstrated that the deposits and

investments of general public, who can become nominal

members and ordinary members of the Cooperative Societies,

and for them lucrative schemes are being floated by the

Cooperative Societies are at risk. Their investments are not

covered by any protection. The provisions under the Multi-State

Cooperative Societies Act, 2002 restrict the deposits upto ten

times the paid up capital and the reserve. This condition is not

sufficient to protect the deposits if the reserves can be advanced

as loans without sufficient security. If such a restriction was

sufficient, the entire banking activity could be carried out

without obtaining licence under the Act of 1949. The Reserve

Bank of India circulars and directives are binding on all the banks

which are licensed under the Act of 1949. This protection must

apply to all kind of banking activities which is defined under Section 5(b) of the Act of 1949. We do not agree with the

submission of learned counsel appearing for the respondent

No.9 that under the legislative scheme, Multi-State Cooperative

Society is permitted to carry out banking activity which does not

fall within the meaning of Section 5(b) of the Act of 1949. He

submits that legislative policy provides Multi-State Cooperative

Society to carry out the activities of taking deposits from its

members on interest and that so long legislative scheme permits

such activity, the respondent is not violating the provisions of the

Act of 2002. The argument is devoid of any substance. 18. So far as the allegation against the petitioner is
 D.B. CIVIL WRIT PETITION NO.26/2013
 Sajjan Singh Bhati Vs. State of Rajasthan & Ors. 18 concerned, this Court has already directed the Superintendent of

 Police of the concerned district to enquire about the complaints

 of the investors. In case the petitioner has committed any

 misconduct under the Regulation of Bar Council of India, a

 complaint can be made against him to the Bar Council of

 Rajasthan. These allegations against the petitioner was not

 detain us to decide the writ petition in the larger public interest. 19. The writ petition is partly allowed with a direction that

 respondents Nos.9 to 12 or any other Cooperative Societies or

 the Multi-State Cooperative Societies registered under the Rajasthan State Cooperative Societies Act, 2001 and the Multi-

 State Cooperative Societies Act, 2002 shall not accept deposits

 of any kind and under any scheme from public, including nominal

 members, ordinary members or the members of any category of

 these Societies, except after obtaining licence under Section 22 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. 20. The restriction will, however, not apply for repayment of

 the deposits for a period of three months. If licences are

 obtained within three months under Section 22 of the Banking

 Regulation Act, 1949, the respondents Nos.9 to 12 as well as

 other Cooperative Societies in the State of Rajasthan may be

 allowed to accept the deposits. 21. All the authorities of the State of Rajasthan will strictly

 enforce these aforesaid directions.