1.   By this application under Section 482 of 
 the   Code   of   Criminal   Procedure,   1973,   the Page 1 of 53 R/CR.MA/4033/2012 JUDGMENT

 applicant - original accused seeks to invoke 
 the   inherent   powers   of   this   Court   for 
 quashing   the   order   of   charge   framed   by   the 
 Additional   Chief   Metropolitan   Magistrate, 
 Court   No.14,   Ahmedabad   Ex.2   dated   4.12.2013 
 in the Criminal Case No.388 of 2012. 2.  The facts giving rise to this application 
 may be summarised as under :­  
  
 2.1     The   applicant   herein   was   serving   with 
 the Union Bank of India. After taking VRS, he 
 started   indulging   in   the   activity   of   share 
 trading.   The   complainant   is   also   a 
 businessman   and   is   a   director   of   a   Company 
 running   in   the   name   of   Darshan   Fiscal   Pvt. 
 Ltd. It is the case of the complainant that 
 in the year 2008, the applicant came at his 
 office   and   begged   before   him   to   extend 
 financial   help   or   else   he   would   commit 
 suicide. Having regard to the poor financial 
 condition   of   the   applicant   at   the   relevant 
 point of time, the complainant thought fit to 
 help   him   financially   and   accordingly   gave 
 Rs.27 lac as a loan. It is the case of the 
 complainant   that   the   applicant   at   the 
 relevant point of time had promised that he 
 would return the money with interest within a 
 period of one year. As the applicant failed Page 2 of 53 R/CR.MA/4033/2012 JUDGMENT

to  return  the  money  despite  the  complainant 
making   several   requests   periodically,   the 
complainant   thought   fit   to   lodge   an   FIR   at 
the   Kagdapith   Police   Station,   Ahmedabad, 
bearing   CR   No.I­22   of   2012   for   the   offence 
punishable under Sections 406 , 409 , 417 , 420 , 294B and 506(2) of the Indian Penal Code. The 
FIR lodged by the respondent No.2 herein is 
extracted hereunder :­  

 "Complainant:­ 
 Nileshbhai Rasiklal Pandya,
 Director of Darshan Fiskal Pvt.Ltd.,
 For   and   on   behalf   of   Darshan   Fikal  
 Pvt.Ltd. Address: 108, New Cloth Market 
 (Mob No.) 93752 22992,
 Outside Raipur Darwaja,
 Ahmedabad - 380 002 

 Verus 

 Satishchandra Ratanlal Shah,
 Residing at: During the last week of February 2008, the  
 accused went to the complaninant's office  
 and requested for Rs. 27,00,000/­ as loan  
 assuring to pay back within a year at 13%  
 interest.   The   accused   stated   that   he   is  
 facing   financial   loss/trouble   caused  
 during   recession   period   of   January   2008,  
 and if money was not lend to him, he will  
 remain   with   no   option   but   to   commit  
 suicide. 4. The   complainant­company   having   good  
 terms   with   the   accused's   sons,   agreed   to  
 help   him   by   passing   an   unanimous  
 resolution   and   issued   cheque   of  
 Rs.27,00,000/­   of   H.D.F.C.   Bank   to   the  
 accused. 5. The   amount   of   Rs.27,00,000/­   was  
 given   as   loan   to   the   accused   which   he  
 promised to pay back within a year. Though  
 after   a   year,   whenever   we   contacted   the  
 accsued for recovering the amount, he gave  
 us   frivolous   and   flimsy   excuses   time   and  
 again. 6. The  complainant  upon  inquring  found  
 that the accused is habitual offender and  
 had   fraudulent   intentions   of   not   paying  
 back the loan money   since inception. The  
 accused cheated the Complainant­Company by  
 committing   fraud   and   criminal   breach   of  
 trust   by   cleverly   taking   the   complainant  
 in confidence. 7.   Thereafter,   in   mid   January   2012,   the  

 complainant   was   waiting   for   his   advocate  
 at   City   Civil   Court's   Canteen,   when   the  
 present   accused   came   to   the   complainant  
 and   took   him   to   the   parking   in   front   of  
 the Court compound. On mentioning the loan Page 6 of 53 R/CR.MA/4033/2012 JUDGMENT

 amount,   the   accused   got   annoyed   and  
 started   shouting   and   verbally   abused   me.  
 The   accused   threatened   to   have   huge  
 political   connections   along   with   contacts  
 of   head­strong   persons   and   also  
 connections with Police Officers at higher  
 post and the complainant would not be able  
 to harm or do anything to the accused. The  
 accused   also   stated   that   if   he   spends   1­
 1.5   lakhs   from   the   loan   amount   i.e.   Rs.  
 27,00,000/­,  anybody will agree to murder  
 and   dispose   off   the   body   of   the  
 complainant.   The   accused   threatened   to 
 murder   the   complainant   with   knife   and  
 settle   the   murder   case   by   spending   2­3 
 lakhs from the very same loan amount taken  
 from the complainant. The accused held the  
 complainant's   collar   and   threatened   and  
 verbally abused the complainant. 8. The accused is habitual offender and  
 since inception had fraudulent intentions.  
 The   accused   under   the   pretext   of  
 businessman   fraudulently   cheated   the  
 complainant   and   his   company.   The   present  
 accused   has   committed   aforesaid   offence  
 without regard of law by verbally abusing  
 and   threatening   the   complainant   to  
 publicly murder him with knife. R/CR.MA/4033/2012 JUDGMENT 9. Therefore, I prays that:­

 As   the   present   accused   has   committed  
 serious   offence   under Sections   406 , 409 , 417 , 420 , 294(b) and 506(2) of the Indian  
 Penal Code, Respedcted Sir may be pleased  
 to arrested him and inquire the matter and  
 may be pleased to proceed with appropriate  
 proceedings   and   humbly   request   to   take  
 appropriate steps. Shri Nileshbhai Rasiklal Pandya" 5.     In   the   aforesaid   circumstances,   the 
 applicant   is   before   this   Court   praying   for 
 quashing   of   the   charge   and   the   criminal 
 proceedings   pending   in   the   Court   of 
 Additional   Chief   Metropolitan   Magistrate, 
 Court No.14, Ahmedabad. 6.   Mr.Y.N.Oza,   the   learned   Senior   Counsel 
 appearing   for   the   applicant   vehemently 
 submitted that even if the entire case put up 
 by the prosecution is believed or accepted to 
 be   true,   none   of   the   ingredients   to 
 constitute the offence of cheating punishable 
 under Section 420 of the Indian Penal Code as 
 well   as criminal   breach  of  trust   punishable 
 under Section 406 of the Indian Penal Code, 
 are   spelt   out.   It   is   submitted   that   mere Page 10 of 53 R/CR.MA/4033/2012 JUDGMENT

failure to keep the promise for repayment of 
the   loan   amount   by   itself   would   not 
constitute   an   offence   of   cheating.   The 
submission  is  that  to  constitute   an offence 
of   cheating,   the   complainant   needs   to   show 
that   the   intention   of   the   accused   was   to 
cheat   or   deceive   right   from   the   inception. 
Mr.Oza   would   submit   that   on   account   of 
financial difficulties, his client could not 
repay the loan amount which he had obtained 
from   the   first   informant.   According   to 
Mr.Oza,   before   his   client   could   file   a 
discharge   application,   the   Court   below 
proceeded   to   frame   the   charge   and   in   such 
circumstances   his   client   lost   his   right   to 
pray   for   discharge   from   the   criminal 
prosecution.   It   is   further   submitted   that 
although   the  charge  has  already  been   framed 
by the Trial Court, yet having regard to the 
materials on record, this Court may quash the 
charge as no offence is made out. 7.     Mr.Oza, in support of his submissions, 
has   placed   reliance   on   the   following 
decisions:­   
(1)   Prakash Ramchandra Barot and Ors., vs. 
State   of   Gujarat   &   Anr.,   2012   Part­1   GLR 
page­449   
(2)    Mohammed Ibrahim and Ors. vs. State of Page 11 of 53 R/CR.MA/4033/2012 JUDGMENT

Bihar and Anr., 2010 (1) GLH 184 (SC)  
(3) G. Sagar Suri and Anr., vs. State of U.P. 
And Ors., ( 2000) 2 SCC 636   
(4)  Ashok Chaturvedi and Ors., vs. Shitul H. 
Chanchani and Anr. , ( 1998) 7 SCC 698  
(5)     Baijnath   Jha   vs.   Sita   Ram   and   Anr. , 
( 2008) 8 SCC 77  
(6)       Sanapareddy   Maheedhar   Seshagiri   and 
Anr.   vs.   State   of   Andhra   Pradesh   and   Anr. , 
(2007) 13 SCC 165  
(7)   Manoj Kumar Sharma and Ors., vs. State 
of Chhattisgarh and Anr., ( 2016) 9 SCC  
(8)       Ravinder   Singh   vs.   Sukhbir   Singh   and 
Ors. , (2013) 9 SCC 245  
(9)     Ketanbhai   Popatlal   Patel   and   Anr.   vs. 
State of Gujarat, Criminal Misc. Application 
No.96 of 2017 decided on 22.1.2015. 8.   In such circumstances referred to above, 
Mr.Oza,   learned   Senior   Counsel   prays   that 
there   being   merit   in   this   application,   the 
same   be   allowed   and   the   impugned   charge 
framed by the Court below be quashed. 9.   On the other hand, this application has 
been   vehemently   opposed   by   Mr.I.H.Syed,   the 
learned   Senior   Counsel   appearing   for   the 
respondent   No.2   -   original   first   informant. 
Mr.Syed   would   submit   that   as   the   Court   has Page 12 of 53 R/CR.MA/4033/2012 JUDGMENT

already   framed   the   charge,   the   trial   is 
deemed   to   have   commenced.   According   to 
Mr.Syed, as the charge has been framed by the 
Trial   Court,   this   Court   should   be   loath   to 
quash the charge in exercise of its inherent 
powers   under Section   482 of   the   Criminal 
Procedure   Code.   Mr.Syed   submitted   that   even 
otherwise,   no   error,   not   to   speak   of   any 
error   of   law,   could   be   said   to   have   been 
committed by the Court below in framing the 
charge. The materials on record do disclose a 
prima   facie   case   against   the   applicant   for 
the   purpose   of   putting   him   on   trial.   It   is 
also   submitted  that  the  materials  on  record 
would   indicate   that   the   applicant   had 
fraudulent,   or   to   put   in   other   words, 
dishonest intention at the time of making the 
promise. According to Mr.Syed the case is not 
one   of   mere   failure   to   keep   the   promise. 
Mr.Syed submitted that his client was induced 
to   lend   an   amount   of   Rs.27   lac   as   loan   on 
account   of   deception   and   fraudulent 
inducement practiced by the applicant. It is 
submitted  that  the  charge  cannot   be quashed 
only   on   the   ground   that   the   prosecution 
arises   from   a   normal   loan   transaction. 
Mr.Syed submitted that whether the intention 
was to cheat from the inception or not is a 
question of fact and same can be only decided Page 13 of 53 R/CR.MA/4033/2012 JUDGMENT

by   the   trial   Court   after   appreciating   the 
entire evidence that may be led in the course 
of the trial. 10.  In such circumstances referred to above, 
Mr.Syed   prays   that   there   being   no   merit   in 
this application, the same be rejected. 11.  The learned APP appearing for the State 
has   also   opposed   this   application.   The 
learned   APP   pointed   out   that   although   the 
charge   came   to   be   framed   in   the   year   2013, 
yet   the   applicant   did   not   permit   the   Court 
below to proceed with the trial. It has been 
almost five years that the charge came to be 
framed.   The   learned   APP   pointed   out   that 
charge came to be framed by the Court below 
during  the  pendency  of  this  application.   It 
is   true   that   later,   this   Court   stayed   the 
further proceedings of the criminal case, but 
now the trial should be permitted to proceed 
in accordance with the law. 12.  In such circumstances referred to above, 
the   learned   APP   prays   that   there   being   no 
merit   in   this   application,   the   same   be 
rejected. 13.   Having   heard   the   learned   counsel 
appearing   for   the   parties   and   having Page 14 of 53 R/CR.MA/4033/2012 JUDGMENT

considered the materials on record, the only 
question   that  falls  for  my  consideration   is 
whether  the  Court  below  committed  any  error 
in framing the charge. 14.     I   take   notice   of   the   fact   that   the 
charge   came   to   be   framed   for   the   offence 
punishable   under Section   406 of   the   Indian 
Penal   Code   as   well   as Section   420 of   the 
Indian   Penal   Code.   Having   regard   to   the 
nature  of  the  allegations  and  the  materials 
on record, I am prima facie of the view that 
the case is one of cheating, punishable under Section 420 of the Indian Penal Code and not 
criminal breach of trust. In this regard, I 
would   like   to   explain   the   fine   distinction 
between the two offences. 15.  The offences of criminal breach of trust 
( Section   406 IPC)  and  cheating  ( Section  420 IPC)   have  specific  ingredients.  In  order   to 
constitute   a   criminal   breach   of   trust 
( Section 406 IPC). 1) There must be entrustment with person for  
property or dominion over the property, and 2) The person entrusted : Similarly,   in   respect   of   an   offence   under section   420 IPC,   the   essential   ingredients  
are : 16.     Thus,   it   is   seen   that   for   identifying 
the concept of criminal cheating, as provided 
under Section 415 of the Indian Penal Code, 
the   ingredients   of   fraudulent,   dishonest 
intention has become the basic  sine quo non 
and if it is there or, identified, then it is Page 16 of 53 R/CR.MA/4033/2012 JUDGMENT

to be further ascertained that as a result of 
which the person so represent must be made to 
deliver   any   property   to   the   other   and   that 
the   inducement   must   be   inherent   with   the 
intention to keep the same or to utilise the 
said property for the use and utilisation of 
the person, who made such an inducement with 
such   intention.   Whereas,   in   the   concept   of 
the   criminal   breach   of   trust,   as   defined 
under Section 405 of the Indian Penal Code, 
the   voluntary   entrustment   following   the 
dominion   over   such   property   by   one   to   the 
other   person   has   become   necessary   to   be 
identified  and  that  the  property   has  become 
necessarily   disentitled,   misappropriated   or 
converted   in   such   a   way   as   provided   by   the 
Section.   If   the   ingredients   set   out   in   the 
above   sections   of   law   are   identified,   upon 
the   materials   placed   by   the   prosecution, 
then, Sections   406 and 420 of   the   Indian 
Penal Code respectively being the punishment 
sections come into operation.  However, while 
doing   such   legal   exercises,   it   has   become 
imperative   for   the   Court   to   see   that   the 
criminal   breach   of   trust   and   cheating, 
though,   generally   involves   dishonest 
intention,   but,   both   are   mutually   exclusive 
and   different   in   the   basic   concept,   in   the 
context   that   criminal   breach   of   trust   is Page 17 of 53 R/CR.MA/4033/2012 JUDGMENT

voluntary and cheating is purely on the basis 
of   inducement   with   dishonest   intention.   In 
this regard, in my view, both the concept of 
law  for  the  respective  offences  are  totally 
distinct,   different   in   nature   and 
accordingly, mutually exclusive with each. 17.   Further, in both the sections, mens rea 
i.e.   the   intention   to   defraud   or   the 
dishonest intention must be present from the 
very   beginning   or   inception   without   which 
either of these sections cannot be invoked. 18.    I may only say with a view to clear a 
serious misconception of law in the mind of 
the police as well as the courts below that 
if it is the case of the complainant that an 
offence   of   criminal   breach   of   trust   as 
defined under Section 405 of IPC, punishable 
under Section 406 of IPC, is committed by the 
accused, then in the same breath it could not 
be said that the accused has also committed 
the   offence   of   cheating   as   defined   and 
explained   in Section   415 of   the   IPC, 
punishable under Section 420 of the IPC. 19.   Every act of breach of trust may not be 
resulted   in   a   penal   offence   of   criminal 
breach of trust unless there is evidence of Page 18 of 53 R/CR.MA/4033/2012 JUDGMENT

manipulating   act   of   fraudulent 
misappropriation.  An  act  of breach  of  trust 
involves   a   civil   wrong   in   respect   of   which 
the person may seek his remedy for damages in 
civil courts but any breach of trust with a 
mens rea gives rise to a criminal prosecution 
as well. 20.  It has been held in Hari Prasad Chamaria 
v.   B.K.   Surekha   and   others ,   reported   in 
1973(2) SCC 823 as under : 21.     To put it in other words, in the case 
 of   cheating   the   dishonest   intention   starts 
 with   the  very  inception  of  the  transaction. 
 But in the case of criminal breach of trust, 
 the person who comes into possession of the 
 movable   property   receives   it   legally,   but 
 illegally   retains   it   or   converts   it   to   his 
 own   use   against   the   terms   of   the   contract. 
 Then   the   question   is,   in   a   case   like   this, 
 whether   the   retention   is   with   dishonest 
 intention   or   not.   Whether   the   retention 
 involves the criminal breach of trust or only 
 a civil liability would depend upon the facts 
 of each case. 22.   The distinction between mere breach of 
 contract   and  the  offence   of criminal   breach 
 of trust and cheating are fine one. In case 
 of cheating, it depends upon the intention of 
 the accused at the time of inducement, which 
 may be judged by a subsequent conduct but for 
 this the subsequent conduct is not the sole 
 test but mere breach of contract which cannot 
 give   rise   to   a   criminal   prosecution   for Page 20 of 53 R/CR.MA/4033/2012 JUDGMENT

cheating   unless   fraudulent   or   dishonest 
intention  is  shown  right   from  the  beginning 
of   the   transaction   i.e.   the   time   when   the 
offence   is   said   to   have   been   committed. 
Therefore, it is his intention, which is the 
gist   of   the   offence.   Whereas,   for   the 
criminal   breach  of  trust,  the  property  must 
have been entrusted to the accused or he must 
have   dominion   over   it.   The   property   in 
respect of which the offence after the breach 
of   trust   has   been   committed   must   be   either 
the   property   of   some   person   other   than   the 
accused   or   the   beneficial   interest   in   or 
ownership of it must be of some other person. 
The accused must hold that property on trust 
of such other person. But the offence, i.e. 
the offence of breach of trust and cheating 
involve   dishonest   intention   but   they   are 
mutually   exclusive   and   different   in   basic 
concept.   There  is  a distinction  between  the 
criminal   breach   of   trust   and   cheating.   For 
cheating, criminal intention is necessary at 
the  time   of entrustment.   In criminal   breach 
of   trust,   mere   proof   of   entrustment   is 
sufficient. Thus, in case of criminal breach 
of trust, the offender is lawfully entrusted 
with   the   property   and   he   dishonestly 
misappropriates the same. Whereas, in case of 
cheating,   the   offender   practices   fraud   or Page 21 of 53 R/CR.MA/4033/2012 JUDGMENT

 dishonestly induces another person to deliver 
 the   property.   In   such   situation,   both   the 
 offences cannot co­exist simultaneously. 23.     I may quote with profit a decision of 
 the   Supreme   Court   in   the   case   of  Nageshwar  
 Prasad   Singh   alias Sinha   v.   Narayan   Singh , 
 AIR   1999   SC   1480.   In   the   said   case,   the 
 allegation   of   the   prosecution   was   that   an 
 agreement was signed between the complainant 
 respondent   and   the   appellant   whereby   some 
 land was agreed to be sold by the appellant 
 to   the   complainant   on   a   consideration,   and 
 allegedly a part thereof was paid as earnest 
 money,   the   balance   being   payable   in   the 
 manner   indicated   in   the   deed.   The   most 
 important   term   in   the   deed   was   that   the 
 possession   of   the   plot   would   stand 
 transferred to the complainant and possession 
 in fact was delivered to the complainant over 
 which   they   made   certain   constructions.   The 
 complaint   was   laid   on   the   basis   that   the 
 appellant had cheated the complainant of the 
 sum of money he had paid as earnest money as 
 his subsequent conduct reflected that he was 
 not willing to complete the bargain for which 
 the   complainant   had   to   file   a   suit   for 
 specific performance which was pending in the 
 civil   court.   Held,   that   the   latter   part   of Page 22 of 53 R/CR.MA/4033/2012 JUDGMENT

 the  illustration   (g)  to Section  415 ,   I.P.C. 
 illustrates   that   at   the   time   when   the 
 agreement   for   sale   was   executed,   it   could 
 have, in no event, been termed dishonestly so 
 as to hold that the complainant was cheated 
 of   the   earnest   money,   which   they   passed   to 
 the   appellant   as   part   consideration   and 
 possession   of   the   total   amount   involved   in 
 the   bargain   was   passed   over   to   the 
 complainant/respondent and which remained in 
 their possession. Now it is left to imagine 
 who   would   be   interested   for   delaying   the 
 matter   for   completing   the   bargain   when 
 admittedly   the   complainants   have   not 
 performed   their   part   in   making   the   full 
 payment.   The   matter   was,   therefore,   before 
 the   civil   court   in   this   respect.   The 
 liability,  if  any,  arising  out  by  breaching 
 thereof was civil in nature and not criminal. 
 Accordingly,   the   appeal   was   allowed   and 
 complaint proceedings were quashed. 24.       It   was   further   held   by   the   Supreme 
 Court   in   the   case   of Hridaya   Ranjan   Prasad  
 Verma v. State of Bihar , AIR 2000 SC 2341 at 
 Pp. 2345­46 of para 16) as below : 25. In  the  case  of Binod  Kumar  and  others 
vs. State of Bihar and another [(2014) 10 SCC 
663], the Supreme Court, while drawing a fine 
distinction   between   the   offence   of   criminal 
breach   of   trust   and   cheating,   observed   in 
paras 18 and 19 as under: 26. In B Suresh Yadav (supra), the Supreme 
 Court   took   the   view   that   although   the 
 liability of a person can be, both civil and 
 criminal   at   the   same   time,   yet   the 
 inconsistent   stand   taken   by   the   complainant 
 would   assume   significance.   I   may   quote   the 
 relevant observations as under; R/CR.MA/4033/2012 JUDGMENT 10. The short question which arises for  
 consideration is as to whether a case of 
 cheating   within   the   meaning   of Section  
 415 of   the   Indian   Penal   Code   has   been  
 made out or not. 11. Ingredients of cheating are : 12.   While   executing   the   sale   deed,   the  
 appellant herein did not make any false  
 or   misleading   representation.   There   had  
 also   not   been   any   dishonest   act   of  
 inducement on his part to do or omit to  
 do anything which he could not have done  
 or omitted  to have done if he were not  
 so   deceived.   Admittedly,   the   matter   is  
 pending  before a competent civil court.  
 A   decision   of   a   competent   court   of   law  
 is required to be taken in this behalf.  
 Essentially,   the   dispute   between   the  
 parties is a civil dispute. 13. For the purpose of establishing the  
 offence   of   cheating,   the   complainant   is Page 26 of 53 R/CR.MA/4033/2012 JUDGMENT

 required   to   show   that   the   accused   had  
 fraudulent or dishonest intention at the 
 time   of   making   promise   or 
 representation.   In   a   case   of   this  
 nature,   it   is   permissible   in   law   to  
 consider the stand taken by a party in a 
 pending   civil   litigation.   We   do   not,  
 however, mean to lay down a law that the 
 liability   of   a   person   cannot   be   both  
 civil and criminal at the same time. But  
 when   a   stand   has   been   taken   in   a 
 complaint   petition   which   is   contrary   to  
 or inconsistent with the stand taken by 
 him   in   a   civil   suit,   it   assumes  
 significance.  Had   the   fact   as   purported  
 to have been represented before us that  
 the   appellant   herein   got   the   said   two  
 rooms   demolished   and   concealed   the   said  
 fact   at   the   time   of   execution   of   the  
 deed of sale, the matter might have been  
 different.   As   the   deed   of   sale   was  
 executed   on   30.9.2005   and   the   purported  
 demolition   took   place   on   29.9.2005,   it  
 was   expected   that   the   complainant/first  
 respondent  would come out with her real  
 grievance in the written statement filed 
 by her in the aforementioned suit. She,  
 for   reasons   best   known   to   her,   did   not  
 choose to do so. 14.   In   this   view   of   the   matter,   we   are  
 of   the   opinion   that   in   the   facts   and  
 circumstances   obtaining   herein,   no   case  
 has   been   made   out   for   proceeding   with  
 the criminal case. 15. In G. Sagar Suri & Anr. v. State of  
 U.P.   &   Ors. [(2000)   2   SCC   636],  this  
 Court opined : R/CR.MA/4033/2012 JUDGMENT 8.   Jurisdiction   under Section   482 of  
 the Code has to be exercised with great  
 care.   In   exercise   of   its   jurisdiction  
 the   High   Court   is   not   to   examine   the 
 matter superficially. It is to be seen  
 if a matter, which is essentially of a  
 civil nature, has been given a cloak of  
 criminal   offence.   Criminal   proceedings  
 are not a short cut of other remedies  
 available   in   law.   Before   issuing  
 process   a   criminal   court   has   to  
 exercise   a   great   deal   of   caution.   For  
 the   accused   it   is   a   serious   matter.  
 This Court has laid certain principles  
 on the basis of which the High Court is  
 to   exercise   its   jurisdiction   under Section   482 of   the   Code.   Jurisdiction  
 under this section has to be exercised  
 to prevent abuse of the process of any  
 court   or   otherwise   to   secure   the   ends  
 of justice. Therein, having regard to the fact that  
 a criminal complaint under Section 138 of   the   Negotiable   Instruments   Act   had  
 already   been   pending,   the   criminal  
 complaint   under Section   406 / 420 found  
 to   be   an   abuse   of   the   due   process   of  
 law. 16. In  Anil   Mahajan   v.   Bhor   Industries  
 Ltd.   &   Anr.   [(2005)   10   SCC   228],  this  
 Court held: 17. In Hira Lal Hari Lal Bhagwati v. CBI,  
 New Delhi [(2003) 5 SCC 257], this Court  
 opined : Proceeding further, the Bench observed thus : 28. In Arun Bhandari vs. State of U.P. And 
Ors. ,   2013   (2)   SCC   801  the   Hon'ble   Supreme 
Court observed as under :­ 

 "27.   We   have   referred   to   the   aforesaid  
 decisions in the field to highlight about  
 the   role   of   the   Court   while   dealing   with  
 such issues. In our considered opinion the  
 present   case   falls   in   the   category   which  
 cannot   be   stated   at   this   stage   to   be  
 purely civil in nature on the basis of the 
 admitted documents or the allegations made  
 in   the   FIR   or   what   has   come   out   in   the  
 investigation or for that matter what has  
 been   stated   in   the   protest   petition.   We  
 are   disposed   to   think   that   prima   facie  
 there   is   allegation   that   there   was   a  
 guilty intention to induce the complainant  
 to   part   with   money.   We   may   hasten   to  
 clarify   that   it   is   not   a   case   where   a  
 promise initially made could not lived up  
 to subsequently. It is not a case where it  
 could be said that even if the allegations  
 in entirety are accepted, no case is made Page 31 of 53 R/CR.MA/4033/2012 JUDGMENT

 out.   Needless   to   emphasise,   the   High  
 Court,   while   exercising   power   under Article 226 of the Constitution or Section  
 482 of   the   CrPC,   has   to   adopt   a   very  
 cautious   approach. In Central   Bureau   of  
 Investigation   v.   Ravi   Shankar   Srivastava,  
 IAS   and   another [18],   the   Court,   after  
 referring   to Janata   Dal   v.   H.S. 
 Chowdhary [19]   and Raghubir   Saran   (Dr.)   v.  
 State of Bihar [20], has observed that the  
 powers   possessed   by   the   High   Court   under Section   482 of  the  IPC   are  very   wide   and  
 the very plentitude of the power requires  
 great   caution   in   its   exercise.   The   court  
 must   be   careful   to   see   that   its   decision  
 in   exercise   of   this   power   is   based   on  
 sound   principles   and   such   inherent   powers  
 should   not   be   exercised   to   stifle   a  
 legitimate   prosecution.   This   Court   has  
 further   stated   that   it   is   not   proper   for  
 the High Court to analyse the case of the  
 complainant   in   the   light   of   all  
 probabilities   in   order   to   determine  
 whether  a   conviction   would   be   sustainable  
 and   on   such   premises   arrive   at   a 
 conclusion that the proceedings are to be  
 quashed.   It   has   been   further   pronounced  
 that   it   would   be   erroneous   to   assess   the  
 material   before   it   and   conclude   that   the  
 complaint could not be proceeded with. The  
 Bench   has   opined   that   the   meticulous  
 analysis of the case is not necessary and  
 the   complaint   has   to   be   read   as   a   whole  
 and if it appears that on consideration of  
 the   allegations   in   the   light   of   the  
 statement made on oath of the complainant  
 that   the   ingredients   of   the   offence   or  
 offences   are   disclosed   and   there   is   no  
 material   to   show   that   the   complaint   is  
 mala fide, frivolous or vexatious, in that  
 event there would be no justification for  
 interference by the High Court. R/CR.MA/4033/2012 JUDGMENT 28. In R.   Kalyani   v.   Janak   C.   Mehta   and  
 others 2009 1 scc 516,  after referring to 
 the decisions in Hamida v. Rashid , 2008 1 
 scc 474 and State of Orissa v. Saroj Kumar  
 Sahoo ,   2005   13   SCC   540,   this   Court  
 eventually   culled   out   the   following  
 propositions: ­ 
 "15. Propositions of law which emerge  
 from the said decisions are: etc., [1989] Suppl. 2 SCC 572; (AIR 1990 SC 
 121:   1990  Cri  LJ  668),  in  which  a  bench  of 
 three   learned   Judges   of   the   Supreme   Court 
 referring to the decision in Mohd. Akbar Dar 
 Ors.   v.   State   of   Jammu   and   Kashmir   &   Ors. , 
 [1981] Supp. SCC 80 (AIR 1981 SC 1548: 1981 
 Cri LJ 1135), pointed out that at the stage 
 of   framing   of   charges   meticulous 
 consideration   evidence   and   materials   by   the 
 Court   is   not   required.   The   Supreme   Court 
 further observed: 33. In the case of Minakshi Bala v. Sudhir 
Kumar & Ors. , [1994] 4 SCC 142, the Supreme 
Court considered the question of quashing of 
charge   by   the   High   Court   invoking   its 
inherent   jurisdiction   under Section   482 Cr.P.C. In that context, the Court made the 
following pertinent observations: 34.   The   Supreme   Court,   in   a   very   recent 
pronouncement   in   the   case   of Asian 
Resurfacing of Road Agency Pvt. Ltd. Vs CBI , 
2018   (2)   RCR   (Criminal)   415  has   laid   much 
emphasis on the proposition of law that the 
power   of   the   High   Court   under section   482 Cr.P.C or Article 227 of the Constitution to 
interfere with an order framing charge and to 
grant   stay   should   be   exercised   only   in   an 
exceptional situation. The Supreme Court was 
dealing with a matter under the provisions of 
the Prevention   of   Corruption   Act,   1988 .   In 
the said case, the order framing charge, was 
challenged.  The  Supreme  Court  took  the  view 
that   as   such   there   is   no   bar   to   the 
jurisdiction of the High Court to consider a 
challenge against an order of framing charge, 
but   the   same   should   only   be   in   exceptional 
situation. Exercise of such jurisdiction has 
to be limited to rarest of rare cases. Let me 
quote   the   relevant   observations   of   the 
Supreme Court in this regard. R/CR.MA/4033/2012 JUDGMENT

 "20.   The   principles laid   down   in Madhu  
 Limaye   (supra)   still   hold   the   field   and  
 have   not   been   in   any   manner   diluted   by  
 decision   of   four   Judges   in V.C.   Shukla  
 versus   State through   CBI,   (1980)   Supp. SCC   92   or   by   recent   three   Judge   Bench  
 decision   in Girish   Kumar   Suneja   versus  
 Central   Bureau   of   Investigation ,   (2017)  
 14   SCC   809. Though   in V.C.   Shukla (supra), order framing charge was held to  
 be interlocutory order, judgment in Madhu  
 Limaye (supra) taking a contrary view was  
 distinguished   in   the   context   of   the 
 statute   considered   therein. The   view   in S.Kuppuswami   Rao (supra),   was   held   to  
 have   been   endorsed   in   Mohanlal   Maganlal  
 Thacker (supra) though factually in Madhu  
 Limaye   (supra),   the   said   view   was  
 explained  differently, as already noted. Thus,   in   spite   of   the   fact   that V.C.  
 Shukla (supra) is a judgment by Bench of  
 four  Judges,  it cannot  be held that  the  
 principle   of   Madhu   Limaye   (supra)   does 
 not   hold   the   field. As   regards Girish  
 Kumar Suneja (supra), which is by a Bench  
 of three Judges, the issue considered was  
 whether   order   of   this   Court   directing  
 that no Court other than this Court will  
 stay   investigation/trial   in Manohar   Lal  
 Sharma   versus   Principal   Secretary and  
 ors.,   (2014)   9   SCC   516   [Coal   Block  
 allocation   cases]   violated   right   or  
 remedies of the affected parties against  
 an order framing charge. It was observed  
 that   the   order   framing   charge   being  
 interlocutory   order,   the   same   could   not  
 be   interfered   with   under Section   397(2) nor   under Section   482 Cr.P.C.   (Paras  
 24,25, 27). It was further held that stay  
 of proceedings could not be granted in PC 
 Act cases even under Section 482 Cr.P.C.  
 It was further observed that though power  
 under Article 227 is extremely vast, the Page 38 of 53 R/CR.MA/4033/2012 JUDGMENT

 same cannot be exercised on the drop of a  
 hat   as   held   in Shalini   Shyam   Shetty  
 versus   Rajendra   Shankar   Patil ,   (2010)   8 
 SCC 329 as under : 21.   It   was   observed   that   power   under Section   482 Cr.P.C.   could   be   exercised  
 only   in   rarest   of   rare   cases   and   not  
 otherwise. 38.   The Criminal   Procedure   Code is 
 undoubtedly a complete code in itself. As  
 has   already   been   discussed   by   us,   the  
 discretionary   jurisdiction   under Section  
 397(2) CrPC   is   to   be   exercised   only   in  
 respect of final orders and intermediate  
 orders. The power under Section 482 CrPC  
 is   to   be   exercised   only   in   respect   of  
 interlocutory orders to give effect to an  
 order passed under the Criminal Procedure  
 Code or to prevent abuse of the process  
 of   any   court   or   otherwise   to   serve   the  
 ends of justice. As indicated above, this  
 power   has   to   be   exercised   only   in   the  
 rarest   of  rare   cases   and   not   otherwise.  
 If   that   is   the   position,   and   we   are   of  
 the   view   that   it   is   so,   resort   to Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution  
 would be permissible perhaps only in the Page 39 of 53 R/CR.MA/4033/2012 JUDGMENT

 most   extraordinary   case.   To   invoke   the 
 constitutional   jurisdiction   of   the   High  
 Court   when  the Criminal   Procedure   Code restricts   it   in   the   interest   of   a   fair  
 and expeditious trial for the benefit of  
 the accused person, we find it difficult  
 to   accept   the   proposition   that   since Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution  
 are available to an accused person, these  
 provisions should be resorted to in cases 
 that are not the rarest of rare but for 
 trifling issues. 22. Reliance was also placed on judgment  
 by   seven   Judge   Bench   in Kartar   Singh  
 versus State of Punjab , (1994) 3 SCC 569  
 laying down as follows : 23. It was further observed that no stay 
 could be granted in PC Act cases in view 
 of   bar   contained   in Section   19(3)(c) . R/CR.MA/4033/2012 JUDGMENT

 The relevant observations are : Clause   (c)   additionally   mandates   a 
 prohibition   on   the   exercise   of   revision  
 jurisdiction   in   respect   of   any  
 interlocutory   order   passed   in   any   trial  
 such   as   those   that   we   have   already  
 referred   to.   In   our   opinion,   the  
 provisions   of   clauses   (b)   and   (c)   of Section   19(3) of   the   PC   Act   read  
 together   are   quite   clear   and   do   not  
 admit   of   any   ambiguity   or   the   need   for  
 any further interpretation." 24.   We   may   also   refer   to   the  
 observations   of   the   Constitution   Bench  
 in Ratilal   Bhanji   Mithani   versus   Asstt.  
 Collector   of   Customs,   Bombay   and   Anr. ,  
 [1967]   3   SCR   926   about   the   nature   of  
 inherent power of the High Court: 25.   As   rightly   noted   in   the   impugned  
 judgment,   a   Bench   of   seven   Judges   in  
 L.Chandra  Kumar  (supra)  held  that  power  
 of   the   High   Court   to   exercise  
 jurisdiction   under Article  227 was part  
 of   the   basic   structure   of   the  
 Constitution. R/CR.MA/4033/2012 JUDGMENT 26.   Thus,   even   though   in   dealing   with  
 different   situations,   seemingly  
 conflicting   observations   may   have   been  
 made   while   holding   that   the   order  
 framing   charge   was   interlocutory   order  
 and was not liable to be interfered with  
 under  Section   397(2)  or   even   under Section  482 Cr.P.C.,  the  principle   laid  
 down in Madhu Limaye (supra) still holds  
 the field. Order framing charge may not  
 be   held   to   be   purely   a   interlocutory  
 order   and   can   in   a   given   situation   be  
 interfered   with   under Section   397(2) Cr.P.C. or 482 Cr.P.C . or Article 227 of 
 the   Constitution   which   is   a 
 constitutional   provision   but   the   power  
 of   the   High   Court   to   interfere   with   an  
 order   framing   charge   and   to   grant   stay  
 is   to   be   exercised   only   in   an 
 exceptional situation. 27.   We   have   thus   no   hesitation   in  
 concluding   that   the   High   Court   has 
 jurisdiction   in   appropriate   case   to 
 consider   the challenge  against   an order  
 framing   charge   and   also   to   grant   stay  
 but   how   such   power   is   to   be   exercised  
 and when stay ought to be granted needs  
 to be considered further. 28.   As   observed   in Girish   Kumar   Suneja (supra)   in   the PC   Act cases,   the 
 intention   of   legislature   is   expeditious  
 conclusion of trial on day­to­ day basis  
 without  any  impediment  through   the stay  
 of proceedings and this concern must be  
 respected.   This   Court   also   noted   the  
 proviso  to Section  397(1) Cr.P.C.  added  
 by Section   22(d) of   the   PC   Act   that   a  
 revisional   court   shall   not   ordinarily  
 call   for   the   record   of   proceedings.   If  
 record is called, the Special Judge may  
 not   be   able   to   proceed   with   the   trial Page 43 of 53 R/CR.MA/4033/2012 JUDGMENT

 which  will  stand  indirectly  stayed.  The  
 right   of   the   accused   has   to   be 
 considered   vis­Ã ­vis   the   interest   of  
 the society. As already noted, the bench  
 of seven Judges in Kartar Singh (supra)  
 held   that   even   constitutional   power   of  
 the   High   Court   under Article   226 which  
 was   very   wide   ought   to   be   used   with 
 circumspection   in   accordance   with  
 judicial   consideration   and   well 
 established principles. The power should  
 be   exercised   sparingly   in   rare   and 
 extreme circumstances. 29.   It   is   well   accepted   that   delay   in   a  
 criminal   trial,   particularly   in   the PC 
 Act cases, has deleterious effect on the  
 administration   of   justice   in   which   the  
 society   has   a   vital   interest.   Delay   in  
 trials affects the faith in Rule of Law  
 and   efficacy   of   the   legal   system.   It  
 affects   social   welfare   and   development.  
 Even  in civil  or tax  cases  it has been  
 laid   down   that   power   to   grant   stay   has  
 to   be   exercised   with   restraint.   Mere  
 prima   facie   case   is   not   enough.   Party  
 seeking   stay   must   be   put   to   terms   and  
 stay   should   not   be   incentive   to   delay.  
 The   order   granting   stay   must   show  
 application of mind. The power to grant  
 stay is coupled with accountability." 35.    I am of the view that no case has been 
made   out   to   get   the   charge   quashed   as   a 
whole. Whether the intention of the applicant 
was to cheat or deceive the first informant 
right   from   the   inception   or   not   is 
essentially a question of fact which can be 
decided   by   the   trial   Court   on   the   basis   of Page 44 of 53 R/CR.MA/4033/2012 JUDGMENT

the   evidence   that   may   be   led   by   the 
prosecution as well as the defence both, oral 
as   well   as   documentary.  Mens   rea  has   to   be 
gathered from the facts and the circumstances 
emerging from the record of the case. It has 
been almost 10 years that the applicant has 
failed to pay a single penny of the principal 
amount not to speak of any amount towards the 
interest. I am of the view that I should give 
the  complainant  an  opportunity  to  make  good 
his case of cheating before the trial Court. 36. In the aforesaid context, I may refer to 

and rely upon a decision of this Court in the 
case   of Arvindbhai   Ravjibhai   Patel   vs. 
Dhirubhai   Sambhubhai   Kakadia ,   1998   Criminal 
Law   Journal   463,  wherein   a   learned   Single 
Judge of this Court observed as under :­  

 "4.1.   Now,   it   is   simply   not   possible   to  
 accept   the   above   contention   of   Mr.   Vin.  
 Whether   the   accused   had   an   intention   to  
 cheat   right   from   the   beginning   or   not   is  
 ordinarily and always a matter of evidence  
 either   to   be   adduced   before   the   Court   at  
 the time of trial, or reasonably inferred  
 from the attending facts and circumstances  
 of the case as narrated in the complaint ! 
 Apart   this,   assuming   for   the   sake   of  
 argument   even   that   there   was   indeed   no  
 intention of the accused at the time when  
 Rs. 90,000/­ came to be borrowed and paid  
 in   cash.   But   then,   in   a   given   case,   it  
 cannot   be   ruled   out   that   though   at   the Page 45 of 53 R/CR.MA/4033/2012 JUDGMENT

 initial   stage   there   may   not   be   any   such  
 intention   to   cheat,   yet   with   the   passing  
 of   time,   the   dishonest   intention   not   to  
 pay   the   borrowed   amount   can   certainly  
 develop   !   For   criminal   offence   and 
 consequential punishment what is necessary  
 is the element of "mens­rea" and this in a 
 given   case   can   be   there   right   from   the  
 beginning   or   that   may   as   well   develop  
 subsequently   and   gain   root   making   the  
 person   accused   dishonest   liable   for   the  
 punishment. Not only this, but let us test  
 this   aspect   of   subsequent   development   of  
 dishonesty   from   yet   another   angle.  
 Accordingly, if indeed, the accused had no  
 intention to cheat, and accordingly he was  
 rather   ready   and   willing   to   pay   up   the  
 amount   due,   then   he   should,   in   the   first  
 instance,   pay   up   the   same   and   in   the  
 second   instance,   failing   to   pay   up   prove  
 his   bona   fide   by   showing   that   because   of  
 some   unforeseen   unfortunate   intervening  
 circumstances,   unexpected   loss   or 
 financial   crisis   he   came   to   be   prevented  
 by   the   circumstances   beyond   control   and  
 was   unable   to  pay   ­  in  other   words   there  
 was   no   dishonest   intention   to   honour   the  
 obligation.   If   this   is   not   done   by   the  
 accused,   the   Court   would   be   quite  
 justified   in   drawing   the   legitimate  
 inference   from   the   proved   facts   that   the  
 accused   had   dishonest   intention   of   not 
 paying   the   amount,   may   be   from   beginning  
 or   may   be   subsequently   !   Atleast   before  
 filing  the complaint  under Sections 406 & 420 of the I.P.C. before the Court. The reason  
 is   intention   is   never   writ   large   on   face  
 of   the   accused.   In   fact,   taking   into  
 consideration   unpredictable   changing  
 nature   of   human   beings,   it   can   be 
 reasonably   said   with   certainty   that   a  
 person who was honest at a stage and point 
 of time, may subsequently become dishonest Page 46 of 53 R/CR.MA/4033/2012 JUDGMENT

 with the passage of time. This is the hard 
 fact   and   reality   of   life   !   It   is   a   part  
 and   parcel   of   thinking   process   which   is  
 not   readable   to   ordinary   eyes.   It   can   be  
 read   with   mental   eye   of   just   and   proper  
 inference. Further still, whether a person  
 had   an   intention   to   cheat   right   from   the  
 beginning or not, can certainly be judged  
 from   his   subsequent   and   ultimate   conduct  
 of   not   paying   of.   In   this   view   of   the  
 matter, when a person takes loan, borrows  
 some   amount   and   despite   his   financial  
 capacity   to   pay,   does   not   pay,   then in  
 that case once the evidence of complainant  
 prima facie satisfies the Court about the  
 alleged transaction and proves case to the  
 said   extent   then   ordinary   and   reasonable  
 inference   of   cheating   needs   to   be   drawn,  
 unless   of   course   as   stated   above,   the  
 accused   has   some   material   justifying   his  
 stand   not   to   honour   his   obligation,  
 negativating   dishonest   intention   to  
 cheat ! But there also, this is once again 
 a   matter   of   defence   which   is   required   to  
 be pleaded, tested out and ultimately get  
 convinced to the Court!! Thus, looking to  
 the   nature   of   allegations   in   complaint,  
 and   subsequent   conduct   of   accused   in   not  
 paying   back   loan   amount   it   is   indeed   not  
 possible   for   this   Court   to   say   at   this  
 stage   that   it   does   not   contain   the   germs  
 constituting   prima   facie   offence   of 
 cheating   against   the   petitioner­accused  
 for   taking   the   cognizance   of   the   alleged  
 offence   by   the   learned   Magistrate,   under Sections 406 , 420 , 504 and 506(2) of   I.P.C.   If  
 after   taking   loan,   for   the   considerable  
 period the same is not paid till the date  
 the   complaint   is   filed,   then   from   that  
 point   of   time   it   can   be   prima­facie   said  
 that he had the dishonest intention not to  
 pay   right   from   the   beginning.   If   the   law  
 is   not   interpreted   in   this   manner, Page 47 of 53 R/CR.MA/4033/2012 JUDGMENT

 dishonest   persons   would  schemingly   skip  
 the   law   and   defeat   the   justice.   That   is  
 not   the   way   to   handle   criminal   justice  
 system ! In this view of the matter, there  
 is   no   question   of   quashing   and   setting  
 aside   the   complaint   filed   by   the  
 respondent   and   accordingly,   this   petition  
 deserves to be dismissed." 37.   I may also refer to and rely upon one 
decision   of   the   Calcutta   High   Court   in   the 
case of  Gour Mohan Das vs. State, (Criminal 
Revision Application No.1771 of 2011, decided 
on  6.7.2012)  wherein   a learned  Single  Judge 
of   the   Calcutta   High   Court   observed   as 
under :­  

 "7.   The inherent power of the High Court  
 under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal  
 Procedure   can   be   exercised   I)   to   give  
 effect   to   any   order   under   this   Code,   ii)  
 to   prevent   abuse   of   process   of   any   code  
 and   iii)   to   secure   ends   of   justice.  
 Admittedly,   after   initiation   of   the   case  
 Police   investigated   the   matter   and   after  
 completion   of   investigation,   charge   sheet  
 was submitted meaning thereby that a prima  
 facie   case   was   made   out   during  
 investigation. It further appears that the  
 learned   Magistrate   after   hearing   both 
 sides   and   after   perusal   of   the   materials  
 on   record   was   prima   facie   satisfied   and  
 framed   charges   under Sections   420 / 323 / 504 IPC against the accused person. 8.     It has been alleged that the accused  
 had   an   intention   to   cheat   the   defacto  
 complainant   from   the   very   inception.   But Page 48 of 53 R/CR.MA/4033/2012 JUDGMENT

 such   fact   can  only   be  proved   at  the  time  
 of   trial   after   considering   the   evidence  
 both   oral   and   documentary.   Since   prima  
 facie   case   has   been   established   and  
 charges including Section 420 of the Code  
 of   Criminal   Procedure   have   been   framed  
 against   the   accused   person   without  
 considering   the   merit   of   the   case,   it  
 cannot   be   said,   at   this   stage,   that   the  
 accused   had   no   intention   to   cheat   the  
 defacto complainant from very inception." 38. In Vishal Paper Tech India Limited vs. 
State   of   Andhra   Pradesh ,   2005   Criminal   Law 
Journal, 1838, wherein a learned Single Judge 
of the High Court observed as under :­ 
 
 "So   the   question   whether   there   was  
 intention   on   the   part   of   the   accused   to  
 cheat the complainant, even at the time of  
 inception, will have to be decided by the  
 trial   Court,   depending   on   the   evidence  
 adduced and the facts and circumstances of  
 the case. For that purpose the conduct of  
 the accused would be relevant. It is well  
 known that while deciding a petition under Section   482 ,   CrPC   to   quash   a   complaint,  
 the   allegations   in   the   complaint   have   to  
 be assumed as true." 39.     I   have   gone   through   all   the   judgments 
relied   upon   by   the   learned   Senior   Counsel 
appearing  on  behalf  of  the  applicant.  There 
need   not   be   any   debate   with   regard   to   the 
principles   of   law   explained   in   all   those 
judgments, but in my view, they are in no way Page 49 of 53 R/CR.MA/4033/2012 JUDGMENT

 of any help to the applicant. 40.     In   the   result,   this   application   fails 
 and  is  hereby  rejected.  Rule   is discharged. 
 Interim order earlier granted stands vacated. 
 The   trial   Court   shall   proceed   further   with 
 the recording of the evidence and see to it 
 that the trial is completed within a period 
 of 03 months from the date of receipt of this 
 order. 41.  It is needless to clarify that the trial 
 Court shall decide the guilt or the innocence 
 of the accused strictly on the basis of the 
 evidence that may be led in the course of the 
 trial   and   without   being   influenced   in   any 
 manner   by   any   of   the   observations   made   by 
 this   Court   in   this   judgment.   All   the 
 observations   in   this   judgment   are  prima  
 facie  and are meant only for the purpose of 
 deciding the main question whether the Court 
 below   committed   any   error   in   framing   the 
 charge. 42.      Before   parting   with   this   judgment,   I 
 would   like   to   observe   that   the   Legislature 
 enacts laws to arrest unsocial or undesirable 
 activities which cause harm to the society at 
 large and prescribes deterrent punishments to 
 prevent   such   activities   being   taking   place. R/CR.MA/4033/2012 JUDGMENT

Judicial notice can be taken of the fact that 
there is a sea­change in the human values and 
that   the   human   values,   etc.   of   the   21st 
century  are  different  from  those   which  were 
prevailing   in   the   19th  century.   The   history 
tells us that the people in this country, by 
and large, were honest and law abiding during 
1860,   i.e.   the   19th  century,   when   the IPC came into force on 6th October, 1960. At that 
point of time, a person was able to purchase 
one bag of rice with one rupee. Now a bag of 
rice   cost  more  than  Rs.1000/­. The  salaries 
of many Government servants and officers, at 
that point of time, were in two figure. Now 
even   a   Class­IV   employee   earns   four   figure 
salary.  Obviously,  keeping  in  view  the  said 
fact, the enactments like the Narcotic Drugs 
and   Psychotropic   Substances   Act,   1985 ,   and 
the Information   Technology   Act,   2000 , 
prescribe   fine   in   lakhs   of   rupees   for   the 
offences   committed   under   those   enactments. 
But, the fine prescribed in the IPC , way back 
in   1860,   which   at   that   time   could   be   a 
deterrent,   has   remained   unchanged   till   this 
date, i.e. more than 140 years after the IPC was   enacted.   In   the   present   day   situation, 
the   meager   fine   prescribed   in   several 
sections   of   the IPC ,   can   by   no   stretch   of 
imagination,   be   said   to   be   deterrent   to Page 51 of 53 R/CR.MA/4033/2012 JUDGMENT

prevent   such   offences. Since   the   greed   to 
become rich overnight by any means has become 
the   order   of   the   day,   and   taking   notice   of 
the  fact   that  several  individuals  and  bogus 
institutions, by promising rich returns, are 
alluring innocent people into investing their 
hard earned money with them and are vanishing 
overnight, the Legislature, in an attempt to 
prevent   such   operation,   made   some   laws, 
obviously because such act may not fall under 
"cheating" as defined in Section 415 of the 
IPC. "Cheating" as understood by a common man 
is  different   from  "cheating",  as  defined   by Section 415 IPC, because for "cheating" to be 
an   offence   under   the IPC ,   the   intention   to 
cheat   even   at   the   time   of   entering   into   a 
transaction   has   to   be   established.   In   the 
present   day   situation,   when   honesty   has 
become a very rare commodity and since nobody 
would   make   apparent   his   intention   to   cheat 
even at the time of inception and since the 
persons   resort   to   cheating   only   after 
creating a confidence about his being honest 
in the mind of the man he intends to cheat, 
in   my   considered   opinion,   it   may   be   in   the 
fitness of things and to suit the present day 
need, to cast the burden to establish that he 
had no intention to cheat on the accused, by 
making   suitable   amendments   to   Section   415 Page 52 of 53 R/CR.MA/4033/2012 JUDGMENT IPC . (See Vishal Papter Tech ) (Supra) 43.  What type of circumstances prevented the 
 accused   from   not   fulfilling   the   promise   to 
 repay   the   amount   would   be   something   within 
 the special knowledge of the accused. In such 
 circumstances,  it  is  very  difficult  for  the 
 complainant   to   establish   that   the   intention 
 of the accused was dishonest right from the 
 inception.   If   the   intention   to   cheat   is 
 apparent on the face of the accused, or if he 
 proclaims that he has an intention to cheat 
 even   at   the   time   of   entering   into   the 
 transaction,   there   can   be   no   scope   for   the 
 complainant   to   enter   into   the   transaction, 
 because  no  ordinary  prudent  man  would  enter 
 into   the   transaction   with   another   person 
 fully knowing that the person with whom he is 
 entering   into   the   transaction   has   an 
 intention   to   cheat   him.   Let   this   aspect   be 
 looked into by the Legislature. (J.B.PARDIWALA, J)
K.K. SAIYED Page 53 of 53