06.06.2024 1. Impugned in this petition is an FIR bearing No. 33/2021 dated 02.06.2021

 under Section 376 IPC registered by respondent No. 1 at the instance of

 respondent No. 2. 2. The petitioner, who is serving in the Indian Air Force as Corporal and

 presently posted at 19WG, Guwahati since 07.03.2018, has stated in the

 petition that the respondent No. 2 met him in the year 2012 through a

 common friend once or twice and for the last 8 years, he has not seen

 respondent No. 2 even once, what to say of establishing physical relations

 with her. The petitioner has claimed that he has never ever tried to contact

 the respondent No. 2 telephonically as well for all along these 8 years,

 rather it is the respondent No. 2 who has been trying to establish contact 2 CRM(M) No. 335/2021 c/w Bail App No. 165/2021 with the petitioner by sending messages from her Mobile No.

XXXXXXXXXX. Every time the petitioner blocked the phone number of

respondent No. 2, she used to change her number and again start pursuing

the petitioner and blackmail him by threatening to implicate him in a false

rape case unless the petitioner accepted the demand of the respondent No.

2 for an amount of Rs. 1,00,00,000/- The petitioner has annexed with the

present petition the text and whatsapp messages sent by the respondent

No. 2 to him,to demonstrate that the respondent No. 2 has been

blackmailing the petitioner to pay Rs. 1,00,00,000/-, give half of his land

and half of his salary for the entire period of her life. It is stated by the

petitioner that he faced the harassment at the instance of respondent No. 2

only to ensure that his service record remains unblemished but at the same

time, the petitioner never succumbed to the blackmailing tactics of the

respondent No. 2. It is further stated that the petitioner had cometo his

home on leave in July/August 2019, when the respondent No. 2 who also

lived in the same Village came to his house and created a scene. Due to

intervention of the villagers and Sarpanch, the petitioner was saved. The

villagers told respondent No. 2 that if she had been wronged, she should

lodge a complaint,but she did not choose to do so, as the petitioner had

not done any wrong to her. Again, in the year 2020 when the petitioner

came to his Village on leave, the respondent No. 2 again tried to

blackmail the petitioner on the pretext of filing FIR against him and

finally in the year 2021, the impugned FIR was got registered by

respondent No. 2 when the petitioner again came to his Village after

obtaining the leave. CRM(M) No. 335/2021 c/w Bail App No. 165/2021 3. By pleading these facts, the petitioner has sought the quashing of the FIR

 on the ground that the FIR impugned is vague and the respondent No. 2

 has not even cited a single specific event for implicating the petitioner in

 the commission of offence of rape and even the place of alleged

 occurence is also not forthcoming from the FIR impugned. It is also

 contended by the petitioner that as there was no physical contact with

 respondent No. 2/complainant so, there was no question of petitioner

 extending any promise to her, to solemnize marriage and to seek sexual

 favour under that pretext. It is also urged by the petitioner that the

 whatsapp messages and text messages from the phone number of

 respondent No. 2 make it explicitly clear that she has been pursuing her

 agenda to blackmail the petitioner to extort unjustified money from the

 petitioner. 4. The status report stands filed by respondent No. 1, wherein it has been

 stated that on 02.06.2021, the complainant submitted a written complaint

 with Police Station, Khour to the effect that one person, namely, Vikash

 Singh Manhas S/o Sham Singh R/o Pangali, Khour has been committing

 rape upon her for the last 3-4 years on the pretext of marriage. On receipt

 of this complaint, FIR bearing No. 33/2021 under Section 376 IPC was

 registered with the Police Station, Khour and the investigation of the case

 was entrusted to PSI Akhil Sen. The investigation was conducted, and the

 site plan was prepared. The place of occurrence was an agricultural

 field/plot situated near the temple of Baba Krishan Ji located in the

 Pangali Village Khour. It is further stated that the petitioner used to call

 the victim over the place in the evening hours and was repeatedly 4 CRM(M) No. 335/2021 c/w Bail App No. 165/2021 committing sexual intercourse on the pretext of false promise to marry.

 The first intercourse took place in the year 2017 and thereafter, on each

 occasion when he used to come home on leave from his unit. The medical

 examination of respondent No. 2 was also conducted and as per the

 medical report, the victim was found to be habitual to sexual intercourse.

 Thereafter, the statement of the victim was recorded under Section 164 Cr. P.C. before the learned JMIC, Akhnoor, wherein she stated that the

 petitioner has been sexually exploiting her for the last 3-4 years on the

 pretext of false promise of marriage. It is also stated that during the

 investigation, call detail reports of both the petitioner as well as

 respondent No. 2 were obtained and as per the details, the victim sent the

 text messages to the petitioner from 15.07.2020 to 26.05.2021 which the

 petitioner did not reply but communicated with her from 01.11.2020 to

 26.05.2021 which falsifies the claim of the petitioner that he had never

 communicated with the victim. 5. The respondent No. 2 has also filed the response stating therein that the

 petitioner promised to marry her and forced her to have physical

 relationship with him and threatened her that if she did not maintainthe

 physical relations with the petitioner, the petitioner would commit suicide.

 Under the fear of threat, respondent No. 2 started physical contact/sexual

 relationship with the petitioner. It is further averred that during the year

 2013-2018, the petitioner and respondent No. 2 had physical

 contacts/sexual relations with each other. The petitioner, on the pretext of

 false promise to marry, had maintained sexual relations with the

 respondent No. 2 on each occasion when he would visit the Village from 5 CRM(M) No. 335/2021 c/w Bail App No. 165/2021 the place of his posting.The respondent No. 2 was doing her post-

graduation through distance education from Jammu University and during

the classes, she used to reside in rented accommodation at Jewel, Jammu.

The petitioner used to live with her duringthat time. It is also averred that

in the year 2018-19, when the respondent No. 2 asked the petitioner that

both of them were having relationship since long so, they should

solemnize marriage, the petitioner denied to solemnize marriage and also

threatened to eliminate her. Aggrieved of false promise of marriage and

commission of rape upon her by the petitioner, the respondent No. 2

approached the Police Station, Khour in the year 2019, by submitting an

application for taking legal action against the petitioner but the concerned

Police Station did not take any action. On 30.05.2021, on the application

submitted by respondent No. 2, the petitioner was formally arrested but

Sarpanch of the Village who happened to be uncle of the petitioner called

herat his residence and prepared a false agreement/compromise, whereby

the petitioner undertook to solemnize the marriage with the respondent

No. 2 within a period of two months and with the intervention of

Sarpanch, the concerned SHO let off the petitioner from his custody. On

01.06.2021, she again went to Police Station, Khour and sat there in

protest and then only, the respondent No. 1 registered FIR against the

petitioner. It is also stated that her statement was recorded under Section

164 Cr. P.C. She has annexed a copy of the same along with her

objections. The respondent No. 2 has denied havingsent any message to

the petitioner from her Mobile No. XXXXXXXXXX and she has further

stated the whatsapp messages annexed with the petition are false and 6 CRM(M) No. 335/2021 c/w Bail App No. 165/2021 fabricated.She has also placed on record the document signed by the

 petitioner whereby he sought five months' time to settle the issue and

 hadassured her that he would marry her without any fail. The

 agreement/compromise signed only by the respondent No. 2 has also been

 placed on record. 6. Learned senior counsel for the petitioner has vehemently argued that the

 FIR is vague and from the objections filed by respondent No. 2, it is

 evident that no offence of rape has been committed by the petitioner and

 even if the allegations leveled by the respondent No. 2 in FIR are accepted

 to be true in its entirety, still no offence is made out against the petitioner.

 Learned senior counsel has placed reliance upon the judgmentsin cases

 titled, 'XXXX versus State of Madhya Pradesh 2024( 3) JKJ(SC)0 and

 'Jasmit Singh vs. State of J&K and ors.'2021(6) JKJ(HC)143. 7. Per contra, Mr. Pawan Dev Singh, learned Dy. AG appearing for the

 respondent No. 1 has vehemently argued that the petitioner fraudulently

 obtained the consent of respondent No. 2 and entered into physical

 relationship with the respondent No. 2, therefore, clear case of offence

 under Section 376 IPC is made out against the petitioner. He has further

 argued that the petitioner has not demonstrated any circumstance which

 prevented him from solemnizing the marriage with the respondent No. 2. 8. Heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the record. 9. The allegations leveled against the petitioner in the FIR impugned are

 extracted as under: - 10. In the FIR, the respondent No. 2 has alleged that the petitioner offered to

 marry her and thereafter, he asked for maintaining physical relationship

 and he maintained the physical relations for the first time in the field.

 Thereafter, he maintained physical relations with her at different places. It

 is further alleged that the petitioner continued to indulge in sexual

 relationship with her on the pretext of marriage. The petitioner is right in

 his submission that no date, month or year of alleged sexual exploitation

 has been mentioned by the respondent No. 2 in the FIR. During the

 investigation, the statement of the prosecutrix has been recorded under Section 164 Cr. P.C. before the court of JMIC, Akhnoor, wherein she has

 stated that the petitioner was known to her since 2017. The petitioner

 made a false promise of marriage with her and for the last 3-4 years, he

 had been maintaining physical relations with her. She believed him and

 maintained physical relations with her consent. She further stated that the

 petitioner induced her to enter intophysical relationship by promise of

 marriage. She has further stated that the petitioner had not talked to her

 for the last one year. She lodged the FIR only because the petitioner had

 betrayed and left her. CRM(M) No. 335/2021 c/w Bail App No. 165/2021 11. In the reply filed by respondent No. 2, it is stated by her that the petitioner

 forced her for maintaining physical relationship by threatening that if she

 did not maintain physical relations with him, he would commit suicide.

 This story of alleged threats has neither been projected in the FIR nor

 mentioned in the statement of the prosecutrix recorded under Section 164 Cr. P.C. 12. The following facts are admitted by the prosecutrix: - 13. From the above facts, it is clear that respondent No. 2 was having physical

 relations with the petitioner, though no specific month, date of

 maintaining physical relations with the petitioner has been mentioned

 either in the FIR or in her statement recorded under Section 164 Cr. P.C.

 This Court in case titled, 'Jasmit Singh vs. State of J&K &Ors.'(Supra )

 quashed the FIR by observing as under:- 20. Further the Apex Court in Sonu @ Subhash Kumar vs. State of
Uttar Pradesh and another , reported in 2021 (2) JKJ (SC) 337, has
referred to following three important aspects while quashing the
charge sheet: (emphasis added) 14. Though, neither in the FIR nor in the statement recorded under Section

 164 Cr. P. C, she has deposed with regard to her residing with the

 petitioner while she was residing in rental accommodation at Jewal,

 Jammu during her postgraduation course but in the response filed by the

 respondent No. 2, she has stated that she was doing her postgraduation in

 Jammu University through distance education and while she was staying

 in a rental accommodation at Jewel, Jammu, the petitioner used to live

 with her during that period. It is also evident that the respondent No. 2

 was 26 years of age when her statement under Section 164 Cr. P. C. was

 recorded before the learned Magistrate on 05.06.2021.The respondent No.

 2 is a grown-up and mature lady capable of understanding the

 consequences of the acts in which she had indulged with the petitioner. 15. The Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in a case titled " XXXX Vs. State of

 Madhya Pradesh and another " reported in 2024 (3) JKJ[SC] 0, took

 note of the following facts: and proceeded ahead to quash the FIR impugned by observing as

under: (emphasis added) 16. The Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in case titled" Salib @ Shalu @

 Salim vs. State of UP and ors ". Salib v. State of U.P. , 2023 SCC

 OnLine SC 947 has held as under: Therefore, it will not be just enough for the Court to
 look into the averments made in the FIR/complaint
 alone for the purpose of ascertaining whether the
 necessary ingredients to constitute the alleged offence
 are disclosed or not. In frivolous or vexatious
 proceedings, the Court owes a duty to look into many
 other attending circumstances emerging from the
 record of the case over and above the averments and, if
 need be, with due care and circumspection try to read
 in between the lines. The Court while exercising its 13 CRM(M) No. 335/2021 c/w Bail App No. 165/2021 jurisdiction under Section 482 of the CrPC or Article
 226 of the Constitution need not restrict itself only to
 the stage of a case but is empowered to take into
 account the overall circumstances leading to the
 initiation/registration of the case as well as the
 materials collected in the course of investigation. Take
 for instance the case on hand. Multiple FIRs have been
 registered over a period of time. It is in the background of
 such circumstances the registration of multiple FIRs
 assumes importance, thereby attracting the issue of
 wreaking vengeance out of private or personal grudge as
 alleged." (emphasis added) 17. From the facts as extracted from the FIR, statement of the respondent No.

 2 recorded under Section 164 Cr. P. C. and the objections filed by the

 respondent No. 2, this Court is not having an iota of doubt that the

 respondent No. 2 entered into physical relations with the petitioner with

 her consent and the FIR was lodged only when for one reason or the

 other, the marriage between the petitioner and the respondent No. 2 could

 not be solemnized. 18. For all what has been said and discussed above, this Court is of the

 considered opinion that no offence under Section 376 IPC is made out

 against the petitioner and if the investigation in the FIR impugned is

 allowed to be continued, it would amount to abuse of process of law.

 Accordingly, FIR No. 33/2021 under Section 376 IPC registered with

 Police Station, Khour, is quashed. 19. After perusing the case diary, the same has been returned to Mr. P. D.

 Singh, learned Dy. AG in the open court. 20. Disposed of. Bail App No. 165/2021 14 CRM(M) No. 335/2021 c/w Bail App No. 165/2021 21. With the disposal of the main petitioner bearing CRM(M) No. 335/2021,

 the present bail application has been rendered infructuous. As such, the

 same is dismissed as having been rendered infructuous. (RAJNESH OSWAL)
 JUDGE

 Jammu
 06.06.2024
 Neha-II
 Whether the order is speaking: Yes
 Whether the order is reportable: Yes KARAM CHAND 2024.06.19 11:32 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document