[Per: Dr. Dheeraj Bhatnagar, Technical Member]

 This appeal is directed against the impugned order

dated January 31, 2022 passed by the WTM1 of SEBI2

holding the appellant guilty of 'insider trading' in the scrip of

GGL3 in violation of Sections 12A(d) and 12A(e) of the

SEBI Act4 and Regulation 4(1) of the PIT Regulations5, the 1 WTM - Whole Time Member 2 SEBI- Securities & Exchange Board of India 3 GGL - Gitanjali Gems Ltd. SEBI Act - Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 5 PIT Regulations, 2015 - Securities & Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 3 following directions have been issued in the impugned order

against the appellant under Sections 11(1) , 11(4) , 11(4A) , 11B(1) and 11B(2) of the SEBI Act :- 2. Brief facts of the case are as under :- His main business is trading in diamonds and

 manufacture of jewellery. (ii) GGL, an Indian company is promoted by Mr. Mehul

 Choksi (Noticee No. 1), which is listed on both

 BSE6 and NSE7. (iii) Nirav Modi group and Mehul Choksi group

 including GGL, both were suspected of beneficiary

 of fraudulent issue of Letter of Undertakings

 (LOUs) by Punjab National Bank, Brady House

 branch, Mumbai (also referred as 'PNB'),

 amounting to Rs. 280.70 Crores. (iv) Allegedly, Mr. Gokulnath Shetty an employee of

 the PNB, facilitated issue of fraudulent LOUs. Mr.

 Shetty was scheduled to superannuate on May 31,

 2017. On the same day, certain media reports

 stated that CBI had booked Nirav Modi and

 Noticee No. 1 (Mr. Mehul Choksi) in connection

 with the aforesaid fraud. BSE - BSE Ltd. NSE - National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. 5 (v) In 2015, GGL had issued and allotted 2,38,05,296

 convertible warrants to 5 parties including the

 appellant. Out of this, 68,24,227 warrants were

 issued to the appellant for Rs. 49.4 crores. For this

 purpose, Gitanjali Venture DMCC ("GVDMCC")

 through Eternity Jewels (100% subsidiary of GGL)

 advanced a loan of Rs. 12.35 crore to the appellant.

 The balance amount of Rs. 37 crore was paid by the

 appellant from his own sources. These warrants

 were eventually converted into shares of GGL with

 a lock-in period of 18 months, ending in September

 2017 and December 2017, respectively. (vi) Appellant and Mr. Mehul Choksi had business

 connection and both were shareholders in a Nirav

 Modi Group company, namely, JTPL8. (vii) On February 5, 2018, Punjab National Bank, on the

 basis of its preliminary investigation report made

 an announcement to the exchanges announcing

 suspected fraud of Rs. 280.70 crores in respect of 8 JTPL - Joyce Trading Pvt. Ltd. fraudulent LOUs issued to GGL. Just a day after

 the said announcement by PNB i.e. on February 6,

 2018, the closing price of GGL fell down by 8.4%

 as compared to the previous day. (viii) SEBI conducted an investigation in the scrip of

 GGL for the period starting from May 31, 2017 and

 ending on February 5, 2018 ("Investigation

 Period") to ascertain whether there was any

 violation of the provisions of the PIT Regulations

 and SEBI Act. It was noted that during December

 1, 2017 to December 14, 2017, appellant had sold

 68,24,226 shares of GGL held by him. (vx) As per the impugned order, it is alleged that the

 sale of shares in December 2017 by the appellant

 was based on Unpublished Price Sensitive

 Information ("UPSI") of 'high probability of

 detection of fraud upon retirement of Mr. Shetty'.

 The said UPSI was held to have come into

 existence on May 31, 2017, on the date of

 retirement of Mr. Gokulnath Shetty as his 7 retirement resulted in increased probability that the

 fraud would be discovered. (x) On July 15, 2021, SEBI issued a show cause notice

 to the appellant, to which he filed his reply on

 August 20, 2021. Thereafter, on January 31, 2022,

 the impugned order has been passed by WTM. 3. Before us, Mr. P.N. Modi, learned senior advocate for

the appellant and Mr. Shiraz Rustomjee, learned senior

advocate for the respondent have made detailed submissions. 4. The learned senior advocate for the appellant handed

detailed written submissions. 4.1 Mr. Modi submitted that the information of fraud of

similar nature in other banks was in public domain long

before the trading by the appellants in December 2017. He

referred to the findings in para (vii) at page 5 of the

impugned order, stating that a fraud with similar modus

operandi was earlier found in Indian Overseas Bank (IOB), 8 which was in the public domain since August 2016. He

further submitted that impugned order also states that fraud in

PNB itself was going on since May 17, 2015, and that such

information regarding PNB fraud could also have become

public knowledge any day. Hence, such information

regarding fraudulent LOUs of PNB cannot be held as UPSI.

4.2 He submitted that even if it is assumed that Noticee No.

1 (Mehul Choksi) would have shared UPSI in the nature of

"high probability of the detection of fraud", there is no reason

why he would not have communicated it to the appellant

prior to May 31, 2017, since fraudulent LOUs were issued in

favour of GGL as early as in March 17, 2015, as reported in

the investigation report of PNB. Therefore, there was no

UPSI in the nature of "high probability of the detection of

fraud" that came into existence on May 31, 2017.

4.3 Mr. Modi further submitted that the WTM has erred in

considering the commencement of the UPSI period from May

31, 2017 i.e. when Mr. Gokulnath Shetty, retired. It was not

possible for the Appellant based in Belgium to know about 9 Mr. Shetty and his connivance with Nirav Modi group in

issuance of fraudulent LOUs. 4.3.1 He further submitted that the fraudulent issue of LOUs

came into light only on January 16, 2018 when firms

belonging to Nirav Modi Group approached the PNB for

buyer's credit. Thus, it is incorrect to hold that UPSI started

from May 31, 2017. He contended that it is an admitted fact

that Mr. Nirav Modi had visited PNB's Brady House branch,

Mumbai and it is mentioned in the impugned order that this

information does not fall in any of the categories of UPSI. It

was submitted that UPSI, if any, would have been considered

to be in existence from February, 2018 when LOUs issued to

Nirav Modi Group were about to mature and not from the

date of Mr. Shetty's retirement. 4.3.2 He submitted that the information of Nirav Modi's

visit to the PNB for issuance of fresh LOUs in January 2018,

is of no consequence as the shares were sold in December,

2017. He further contended that the SEBI itself has observed

that officials of Nirav Modi Group periodically visited the 10 PNB, therefore, the same cannot be considered to be a UPSI.

Further, appellant had no knowledge of Mr. Nirav Modi

visiting a PNB branch in near future. He contended that the

impugned order is silent on the correlation and relevance of a

future visit of Mr. Nirav Modi to a particular branch of PNB

to fall in share price of GGL by 8.4% on February 6, 2018

and selling of shares of GGL by the appellant.

4.3.3 He also submitted that there were other investors who

had purchased the convertible warrants and sold the shares

after conversion. However, yet only appellant is held guilty

of violation. 4.4.1 With respect to the findings regarding the connection

between Noticee No. 1 (Mr. Mehul Choksi) and the

appellant, the learned advocate submitted that it was only a

'business connection' based on their shareholdings in JTPL, a

promoter company of GGL. With regard to JTPL, he

submitted that there was a proposal for sale of a real estate

project, which required common directors and shareholders,

due to which the appellant and others were made 11 shareholders and directors of JTPL. The transfer could not

materialize and the property is still in possession of the

appellant/JTPL. 4.4.2 With regard to the other ground for holding a

connection between the appellant with Noticee No. 1 (Mr.

Mehul Choksi) based on the funding of initial payment of

Rs.12.35 crores for acquisition of warrants of GGL, through

its subsidiaries GVDMCC and "Eternity Jewels", the learned

Senior advocate submitted that the amount was received in

2015 as a loan from the "Eternity Jewels", which can be

corroborated from the statement of Shri. Jitendra Mahajan

recorded on June 20, 2018 under Section 50 of Prevention of

Money Laundering Act, 2002 ("PMLA") by the Enforcement

Directorate officials. It was submitted that the said Loan

transaction was a commercial transaction and was not

sufficient to establish "connection" between the appellant and

Noticee No.1 (Mr. Mehul Choksi). The appellant mobilised

significant own funds of Rs. 37 crore towards making full

consideration for acquiring convertible warrants of GGL. 12 4.4.3 Learned advocate further submitted that the appellant

had applied for allotment of warrants in GGL in 2015 due to

its sound financial health and the same is purely a

commercial transaction. He further pointed out that the loan

was advanced to the appellant in January 2015, whereas as

per the impugned order, the alleged UPSI came into existence

on May 31, 2017. He further contended that he received no

preferential treatment from GGL as there were four other

preferential allottees. 4.4.4 He submitted that under Regulation 2(1)(d)(i) of the

PIT Regulations, 2015 the 'connection' has to be in the

previous 6 months. There is no finding with regard to

"frequent communications" during 6 months prior to the sale

of shares and is merely an assumption made by the

adjudicating Authority. Therefore, the appellant was not

'connected to' Noticee No. 1 in terms of PIT Regulations. The learned senior advocate referred to the definition of

"connected persons" under Regulation 2(1)(d)(i) of the PIT 13 Regulations, 2015 and submitted that there has to be a direct

or indirect association with the Company, in the manner

mentioned in the definition i.e. frequent communication with

the officers of the company, etc. He further submitted that

under regulation 2(1)(f) of the PIT Regulations, 2015, mere

existence of relationship is not sufficient to term a person as

an "immediate relative" unless there is financial dependence

and/or consultation in financial matters. Common

directorships and communication is not sufficient to establish

connections. 4.4.5 He also submitted that funds amounting to Rs 12.35

crores received by the appellant as loan was a pure

commercial transaction and that it cannot be a ground for

establishing "Connection" between the appellant and Noticee

No. 1. To support his contentions, he referred to this Hon'ble

Tribunal's order in the matter of Umang Dhanuka and Ors.

Vs SEBI 9 (Appeal No. 102 of 2020). 4.5 Referring to the findings in para 46 of the impugned

order, learned senior advocate submitted that the Ld. WTM

has erred in concluding that Noticee No. 1 (Mr. Choksi) had

passed on the alleged UPSI to the appellant, without any

evidence of such communication. The impugned order 15 incorrectly assumes communication based on the "trading

pattern" of the appellant and trading pattern alone cannot lead

to inference of communication of the alleged UPSI to the

appellant. 4.5.1 The finding that the appellant and Mr. Choksi were

friends is merely based on an e-mail of the Company

Secretary of GGL wherein he made a completely baseless

statement. Moreover, any person perpetrating such a huge

fraud will not communicate it in public. 4.5.2 Mr. Modi also submitted that the impugned order has

not mentioned as to when Mr. Mehul Choksi may have

communicated the alleged UPSI to the appellant. As recorded

in the impugned order, the UPSI came into existence on May

31, 2017 i.e. the expected date of retirement of Mr.

Gokulnath Shetty. If the UPSI was then communicated to the

appellant, obviously he would have immediately sold the

shares as the lock-in period for the first tranche of share

would have expired on September 1, 2017. However, the 16 appellant has made the first sale on December 1, 2017, which

proves that no such UPSI was ever communicated to him.

4.6 The Ld. senior advocate further submitted that the

appellant sold all his shares of GGL within 6 days from

December 1, 2017 to December 14, 2017 as his brother Mr.

Jatin Girdharlal Gajera was in dire need of funds for

expansion of business. Appellant transferred the funds

amounting to Rs. 53 Crores to this brother through RTGS on

December 15, 2017, December 22, 2017 and December 29,

2017, by way of gift. 4.7 Mr. Modi further submitted that the entire matter is

based on the allegation that Noticee No. 1 (Mr. Mehul

Choksi) had passed on information to the appellant that Nirav

Modi had a reason to approach the same Brady House branch

of PNB for fresh issuance of LOUs. He argued that it was not

unusual, as it is observed in Para No. 20 of the impugned

order that Nirav Modi periodically visited the PNB Brady

House branch at Mumbai. He argued that even if it is

assumed that Noticee No. 1 passed information to appellant, 17 this information is of no use for holding or selling the shares

of GGL. 5. In response, Mr. Shiraz Rustomjee, learned senior

advocate made detailed submissions. He submitted that in the

present case, the UPSI is the 'high probability of fraud

relating to fraudulent issue of LOUs to Gitanjali Group

becoming public'. Countering the argument of the appellant

that it would not be possible for the appellant to know when

the employee of PNB Mr. Gokulnath Shetty had to retire, he

submitted that the appellant had close relations and was in

frequent communication with Noticee No. 1 (Mr. Mehul

Choksi). The SCN and the impugned order provide clear

reasons to hold that UPSI arose on May 31, 2017 and refuted

that the UPSI could have arisen only on February 5, 2018.

5.1 Mr. Rustomjee submitted that it is an admitted fact

that both the Nirav Modi Group and Gitanjali Group were

using the same branch of PNB for issuance of fraudulent

LOUs and were assisted by the same employee of the Bank,

i.e., Mr. Gokulnath Shetty. Further, the visit of Nirav Modi 18 Group to Brady House Branch of PNB is relevant as the

LOUs issued to Nirav Modi Group and Gitanjali Group were

due for maturity on January 25, 2018 and February 9, 2018.

Therefore, it was likely that the said group would visit PNB

for renewal of LOUs in January 2018, which was correct, as

they actually visited that branch on January 16, 2018.

5.2 The UPSI was not solely based on the visit of Nirav

Modi Group to PNB bank but it is the identified on the basis

of totality of circumstances that increased the probability of

detection of the fraud and its exposure in the public domain.

5.3 He submitted that in para 40 of the impugned order, it

has been rightly concluded that the other preferential

allottees did not fall within the criteria used to determine

who might have access to the UPSI. 5.4 The learned advocate for the respondent also submitted

that both the Noticee No. 1 (Mr. Choksi) and the appellant

were shareholders in JTPL and most of the directors in JTPL

are relatives of the appellant. He further submitted that as per 19 the financial statements of GGL for FY 2016-17, JTPL is

disclosed as a company under common control of Key

Managerial Person of GGL, which includes Noticee No. 1.

As regards the contention of the appellant regarding proposal

of sale of property, it was submitted that the said transfer

never materialized. He submitted that the arrangement

between the appellant, JTPL and GGL amounts to

contractual/ business relationship. 5.5 Responding to appellant's plea that the funds received

by appellant were in the nature of loan, Mr. Rustomjee

denied that the funds received by appellant from GVDMCC

(100% subsidiary of GGL) through Eternity Jewels was a

loan. In this regard, he submitted that the appellant has failed

to provide any documents such as loan agreements, terms of

loan and purpose of loan in support of his submissions. He

submitted that the appellant has not provided any evidence of

the repayment of interest or loan to Eternity Jewels. He

further submitted that the Eternity Jewels was in the business

of trading in jewellery and was not a loan provider. 20 Moreover, as per the KYC of the bank accounts of Eternity

jewels with ADCB bank, Dubai, this account was meant for

making payment to suppliers and accepting payments from

clients. He also submitted that one Mr. Vipul Chitalia an

employee of GGL who is also a co-accused in PNB case

stated before the Enforcement Directorate that the source of

funds of the investment made by the appellant in GGL was

Noticee No. 1 (Mr. Choksi). 5.6 Learned senior advocate refuted the appellant's

submission that the appellant invested in GGL because of its

sound health. He further submitted that the common

directorship and communication was not the only basis for

concluding that the appellant and Noticee No. 1 were

connected and close associates. He further submitted that the

basis of connection between the appellant and Noticee No. 1

is the shareholding of both the appellant and Noticee No. 1

(Mr. Choksi) in JTPL, which is the promoter company of

GGL. The appellant was in a contractual/Business 21 relationship with GGL through JTPL, both of which are

controlled by Mr. Mehul Choksi. 5.7 With respect to appellant's submission that he sold the

shares of GGL because his brother was in dire need of funds

for his business expansion, the learned advocate for the

respondent submitted that the same is inconsistent with the

rationale provided by the appellant in his e-mail dated

February 24, 2020 to SEBI, wherein he informed that he sold

the shares of GGL to minimize the loses as the price of the

scrip was continuously falling. 5.8 With respect to the co-relation between the visit of Nirav

Modi Group to Brady House branch of PNB and the fall in

the share price of GGL on February 6, 2018, the learned

advocate for the SEBI submitted that as per the Preliminary

Investigation Report of February 12, 2018 provided by PNB,

the LOUs issued to Nirav Modi Group were maturing in

February 2018, and 8 LOUs had already matured on January

25, 2018. Therefore, it was likely that the said group would

have visited PNB for renewal of LOUs in January 2018. The 22 said visit further crystallized the UPSI as GGL was also

availing the services of Brady House branch of PNB for

issuance of fraudulent LOUs. 6. We have carefully considered the facts of the case in

the light of the rival submissions made before us. In order to

decide the appeal, we frame the following questions :- However, in our considered view mere 'probability about any

fact or event' is a subjective notion, which implies that the

information relating to the facts is not absolutely certain,

hence, such an information based on mere probability of

occurrence of an uncertain event cannot be treated as

concrete or credible. 6.4.1 The Cambridge dictionary defines the term Information

as under: The Merrium-Webster dictionary defines the term

Information as under: 6.5 In our considered view, the probability of detection of

fraud on the happening of certain uncertain events, cannot be

treated as a concrete or credible Information for the purpose

of PIT Regulations. We note that the GGL has not made any

entry of such an information as UPSI in the Structured

Digital Data base (SDD) in terms of Regulations 5C and the 27 respondent has not charged the company in this regard.

Further, in terms of Principle-1 of schedule A of PIT

Regulations, such a suspicion of high probability cannot be

held as Credible or concrete Information.

6.6 With regard to commencement of the UPSI period from

May 31, 2017, it cannot be held that the probability of

detection of fraud was high only on or after the date of

retirement of Mr. Shetty. In our view, such a probability was

equally high considering that Mr. Shetty was liable for

transfer from that position, which is likely in a Public Sector

Bank, considering their transfer policy and administrative

grounds. Further, PSBs have their own surveillance

mechanism and checks in the form of annual audit or

vigilance inspections, which could have exposed the fraud

even prior to Mr. Shetty's retirement on May 31, 2017.

Moreover, there is a possibility that like Mr. Shetty, his

successor could also have followed the same path to facilitate

roll over of LOUs for both groups. 6.7. In view of this, the presumption of high probability of

detection of fraud consequent upon certain event

(superannuation of Mr. Shetty) cannot be held as an

Information per se, which could be treated as UPSI under the

PIT regulations. In view of this, we decide this question in

Negative. B. Whether the appellant can be held as a 'connected

person' within the meaning of regulation 2(1)(d)(i) of PIT

with GGL? 7. We note that the Ld. WTM has held the appellant as a

'connected person' with a connection with the company

(GGL) that is expected to put him in possession of/ having

access to UPSI by virtue of,- (i) frequent communication with Noticee No. 1. (ii) due to Noticee No. 1 and. 2 being close associates,

 having association through their shareholding in GGL's

 group company, JTPL and transfer of an amount of

 Rs.12.35 crores by GVDMCC, a subsidiary of GGL 29 through Eternity jewels, an entity controlled by Noticee

 No. 1 to Noticee No. 2 for funding the upfront payment

 for subscribing to GGL warrants in 2015. 7.1 In terms of the PIT Regulations, the term "connected

person" has been defined as under: NOTE : It is intended that a connected
 person is one who has a connection with
 the company that is expected to put him
 in possession of unpublished price
 sensitive information". 7.2 We find that the appellant is a national and resident of

Belgium, while the noticee No. 1 was a resident of India

during the inspection period. No specific evidence of any

communication has been brought on record to suggest their

frequent communication. Secondly, Ld. WTM has questioned the veracity of loan

of Rs 12.5 cr. alleging that there are no documentary

evidence or details of collaterals etc. regarding the loan

carrying 4% interest rate. However, no adverse inference of

this finding was drawn. If the said loan was not treated as

genuine, it implies that the said amount is rather own money

of Noticee No. 1. However, in the impugned order, Noticee

No. 1 has been specifically exonerated with regard to the

allegation made in the show cause notice of having indirectly

traded through the account of appellant, which would have

been the case, since the said amount of Rs. 12.5 cr. was held

to be not a loan from noticee No. 1. Moreover, the Ld. WTM

has not taken note of the fact that the appellant has made the 31 balance payment of Rs 37.03 cr. for subscribing to warrants

of GGL from own sources. 7.3 With regard to the finding of shareholding by both the

noticees in the GGL group company, JTPL, we find that the

appellant is holding 17.2% shares of JTPL (earlier held by his

father) and five of the Gajera family members are directors in

the said company. The explanation of the appellant that this

arrangement was resorted to for executing a deal for sale of

immovable property, was not accepted by the Ld. WTM.

7.4 In our considered view, the fact of two unrelated parties

sitting in different geographies deciding to enter into a real

estate transaction and earlier extending a concessional loan

by Noticee No. 1 to appellant, shows a definite 'business

connection' between the two, albeit limited to these activities.

The two sides are undisputedly not partners in the main

business of GGL of export of diamond/jewelary, for which

the fraudulent LOUs were issued. 7.5 However, here the moot question is whether based on

such limited 'business connection' alone, can it be held that

the connection of the appellant with the company GGL is

such that is expected to put him in possession of UPSI? In our considered view, appellant is not a partner in the

core business of GGL of export of diamond/ Jewellary. The

appellant is only a shareholder with 5.75% stake in GGL and

not a director therein. Under the circumstances, there is no

reason why the Noticee No.1 would have divulged the secret

information relating to the fraud committed on PNB by him

and his nephew regarding issue of LOUs for exports to an

unrelated party based in Belgium, which could have pre-

disposed exposure of the fraud by GGL group and Nirav

Modi group, which was well concealed till then. This could

have rather put them at risk of legal actions by various

Government agencies. 7.6 In view of this, we hold that though the appellant had a

business relationship with the company, the same is not

reasonably expected to allow him access to UPSI. Hence, 33 the appellant cannot be treated as 'connected person' under Regulation 2(1)(g)(i) . In view of this, we decide this

question in negative. C. Whether there was any communication of UPSI by

Noticee No. 1 with Noticee No. 2? 8.1 The Ld. WTM alleges that the noticee No. 1 violated Regulation 3(1) of PIT Regulations, 2015 by sharing UPSI

about high probability of detection of fraud with appellant to

help the latter avoiding losses in future, as and when such

information would have become generally available.

8.2 We note that while putting himself and the entire GGL

and Nirav Modi groups at risk by sharing the hitherto secret

information of fraud committed by them on PNB, the alleged

tipper himself did not dispose of his own significant 26.09%

shareholding in GGL (including 21.42% pledged shares),

while allegedly sharing the information with the appellant

intending to help the tiper avoiding future losses. 34 Moreover, it was not reasonable to furnish this tip to the

appellant, as any off-loading by the appellant of his 5.75%

significant shareholding in GGL could have hampered the

share price of GGL due to huge supply in the market. This

would have been against the financial interests of the noticee

No. 1 and other promoters of GGL, who continued to hold

shares in GGL. 8.3 We also find merit in the submission of Mr. Modi that

the alleged sharing of UPSI to appellant goes beyond human

intelligence since despite the alleged sharing of information

of fraud by the fraudster himself, how could the appellant

allow his group company Lakshmi Infra Development

(LIDL), in which he is a shareholder, to make further

investment in companies of noticee No. 1 in January 2018,

after he came to know about the fraud. In view of the above,

preponderance of probabilities suggests that there is no

reasonable ground to assume that the noticee No. 1 may have

shared UPSI with the appellant. Undisputedly, the Ld. WTM

has not brought on record any evidence which may suggest 35 that the said UPSI was actually communicated, directly or

indirectly, by the noticee No.1 to appellant. Hence, there is

no case for holding appellant as an insider under Regulation

2(1)(g)(ii) either. 8.4 In view of the above, we decide this question in

Negative. D. Whether the trading of GGL shares by the appellant

was guided by the UPSI? 9. Ld. WTM held that since the appellant was a connected

person, he had access to UPSI. Based on these findings, he

held that the trading by the appellant in the shares of GGL in

December 2017 were guided by such UPSI. 9.2 As we have noted that the tipper Noticee No. 1 himself

has not traded in the shares of GGL during the UPSI period

despite holding 26.09% share capital of GGL, which should

have been the case, considering the allegation that the sharing

of UPSI with the appellant was for avoiding losses on such

UPSI becoming public knowledge. Moreover, not acceding 36 with the SCN, Ld. WTM has held that Noticee No. 1 has

traded in the scrip of GGL through the account of Noticee

No. 2 during the UPSI period. Notably, this was when both

the noticees were allegedly in possession of the UPSI.

9.3 The Ld. WTM has relied upon observations made with

regard to the trading behavior, stating that apart from the

trading in GGL in December 2017, the appellant has not

traded in any other scrips during the UPSI period, 3 months

prior to it and 3 months after the UPSI period ended. Further,

the trading account of noticee No. 2 was opened a day before

the sale of GGL shares, allegedly for the purpose of selling

GGL shares during the UPSI Period. However, in our considered view, this observation in

itself has no evidentiary value on the facts of the case, as

evidently the appellant is a Belgium national, who admittedly

got trading account opened prior to impugned sale. There is

no evidence on record to suggest that the appellant was ever

engaged in regular trading of shares in India, even prior to 3 37 months anterior to commencement of UPSI period, that could

allow any meaningful inference to be drawn in the matter.

9.4 The appellant has submitted that trading by appellant

was not exceptional since even other investors of GGL had

sold and purchased shares of GGL during the month of

December 2017 and January 2018. Further, he and other

investors of preferential warrants of GGL, sold the shares

when they found that it was the right moment for selling the

same. We find merit in the plea, since at the time of such

sale, there was rise in market price, as evident by profit of

3.88% earned by the appellant. 9.5 Furthermore, we find sound reasoning in the argument

of the appellant that had he known about the fraud,

subsequent to such information, he would not have signed the

agreement of taking over Tatva Project by one of the

companies in which he was a shareholder i.e. 'LIDL' from

Gitanajali Infra development Co. in the month of January

2018. 9.6 In view of this, we find no merit in the allegation that

the trading by appellant was guided by the access to UPSI. In

view of this, we decide this question too in negative. 10. In view of the above, the following: Justice P. S. Dinesh Kumar
 Presiding Officer

 Ms. Meera Swarup
 Technical Member

 Dr. Dheeraj Bhatnagar
 Technical Member
30.04.2025 MRS Digitally signed by
 MRS PRAMILA

 PRAMILA Date: 2025.05.01
 12:24:26 +05'30'

PTM