1. Application has been preferred for the preservation and conservation of

 Forest area, since illegal and non-forest activities and non compliances of

 EC & FC conditions are being done while execution of the project by

 Respondent Larsen & Toubro Limited (Project Proponent) along with

 Narmada Valley Development Authority, State of MP which is being done

 in the forest land violating norms, conditions of Forest Conservation Act 1980, Bio-Diversity Act 2002 and Environment Protection Act 1986, Air

 (Prevention and Control of Pollution ) Act 1981, Groundwater Rules. The

 PP are in violation of Forest Conservation Act 1980 by disposing off waste

 collected during the excavation property as the same is being dumped in 1 the nearby forest area, without any covering, causing air pollution in the

 vicinity. The PP has laid down pipeline in non-compliance, by reducing

 the depth from the ground level. The PP is also in violation of the

 mentioned FC & EC conditions, including construction of pump house in

 forest area, carrying out the scheme of compensatory afforestation only

 for the namesake, dumping the excavated soil in open without any

 mitigation measures as well as not taking NOC/clearances from the

 affected villages and joint forest management committee. The violations

 and omission by the Respondents have caused significant harm to the

 flora and fauna of the forest area, and has also affected the livelihood

 and sustenance of the indigenous people. The acts/omissions of PP have

 utterly failed in taking care of living animals' habitats, being hazardous

 and inherently dangerous. 2. The main contention of the Learned Counsel for the applicant is

 plantation in the area and its survival of the plants in addition to the non

 compliance of the general condition of EC with regard to the pipeline

 which is required to be laid down 1.5 meter below the ground and as per

 the contention of the Learned Counsel for the applicant these general

 conditions are not being observed by the Project Proponent. 3. The matter was taken up by this Tribunal on 27.02.2024, and a

 Committee was constituted to submit the Factual and Action Taken

 report. 4. In compliance thereof, the member of the Committee visited the site and

 submitted the report as follows: The Forest Clearance (FC) for diversion of 160.055 hectares
(71.784 ha. of Khandwa Forest Division & 88.271 ha. of Dewas
Forest Division) forest land for construction of ISP-Kalisindh Link
Project was granted by the Ministry of Environment, Forest & Climate
Change vide letter dated 28/07/2020 in favour of Executive Engineer,
Narmada Development Division 32, Barwah, District-Khargone. As per
specific condition 3 of FC: The Joint Committee has visited above 03 villages where
Compensatory Aforestation (CA) have been done. Details of plantation
is enclosed as Annexure-8. As per information submitted, details of
CA is as follows: The Joint Committee visited all the 03 sites on 11.04.2024 to verify
the status of CA. As the visit was in autumn season, many plants
were standing without any leaves on them. Few of the plants in which
watering was done within last 1 week or so were flourishing and rest
plants with dried pits with inadequate watering were either without
leaves or died. Such pits in which plants not survived needs to be
replaced by other saplings and watering frequency needs to be
increased. Availability of the water sources (check dam) at Dehriya
village was there but no such water sources is available at Jamli &
Chipiya villages. Here watering is done through water tankers. The Forest Department has maintained the records online in
plantation monitoring system. Copy of the details plantation
conducted and monitoring carried out have been provided by the
Forest Department, which is enclosed as Annexure-9. As per the
information submitted survival rates for Village-Jamli is in range of
86.17 to 94.84%, for Village-Chipiya, survival rate is 85 to 94% and
Village-Dehriya Susner survival rates is 88.22 to 96.80%. Replacement Plantation has also been done year-wise in all above
03 Compensatory Aforestation Areas. 5 2. Violation by conducting illegal and non forest activities on
forest land. With regard to non forest activities on forest land, the Applicant Shri
Gourav Jain has explained during inspection that the project has
established few non-forest activities viz tube-well, pump house, staff
quarters, soil dumping, labour camp on the forest land.

The Joint Committee has visited the project area at Village-Pamakhedi
where approach channel, pump house, pipelines are under
installation. Details are as follows: As per the information submitted by the Executive Engineer
 Narmada Vikas Division-32, Barwah, 5.2 hectares land for pump
 house 1 & 2 and 3.49 hectares land for approach channel have
 actually been acquired. 2. Pump house 1 & 2 were found under installation. Approach
 channel is also under construction. Pipeline is also being laid at
 Pamakhedi. 3. On pump house site, which is demarcated and acquired by the
 executing agency, some of the following activities/constructions on
 diverted and non diverted land are as

On diverted land: On non diverted land: 6 As per the information submitted it has been informed that: 4. The Joint Committee has observed whole area of pump house,
 approach channel etc. and above violations have been found. The
 project had installed RMC for construction of pump house for which
 consent to establish and consent to operate was obtained from 7 MPPCB. The consent was valid upto 25/02/2022, The RMC Plant
 was found not in operation and it was told by the project
 proponent representatives that the RMC is closed for last 02 years
 and it is unusable and it is to be removed from the site. 5. The committee members have visited the Project area to verify the
 allegations raised by the complainant in the petition. This is
 observed that the component wise break up given in the proposal
 which was submitted by the Project Proponent to the Regional Office,
 Bhopal, Ministry of Environment Forest and Climate Change,
 Government of India for approval under the provision of FCA, 1980
 have not been followed. 6. The total area proposed by the Project Proponent for the construction
 of component "Pump House" in the proposal which was submitted to
 the Govt. of India for approval under the provision of FCA, 1980, is
 as follows: 7. This is observed that the area proposed for the construction of Pump
 House(1 and 2) in the proposal, the switch yard, worker rooms,
 cement mixture plant, water tank and tube well have also been
 constructed which were not mentioned in the component wise break
 up. However, construction of all these components except part area
 of water tank (size 9 meter x 5 meter x 1.5 meter already
 dismantled) has taken place within the diverted forest land for the
 project. As per condition no. 3, of the Forest Clearance "The Layout
 plan of the proposal shall not be changed without prior approval of
 Central Government" which is not complied by the Project Proponent
 prior constructing these components other than the pump house in
 the diverted forest area. This is also a violation of condition no. 11,
 of the Forest Clearance by which "The forest land shall not be used
 for any purpose other than that specified in the project proposal" 8 8. Excavation of underground water and utilized against
the rules and conditions incorporated in the FC & EC
Clearances: 9. No field survey by the Officers for Forest Diversion was
conducted to have protection of rare animal species and their
natural habitations including reserved forest of Chandgarh and
Mundi : 10. Not taken necessary NOC/Clearances from affected
Village Panchayat and Joint Forest Management Committee in 13 compliance of Condition No. 26 of the Environmental
Clearance : In compliance of above condition of the EC, it is mentioned here that
Project has obtained Environment Clearance and Forest Clearance.
In process of obtaining EC, there is provision of public hearing,
which was conducted at 04 places i.e. Village- Pamakhedi, Tehsil-
Punasa, District-Khandwa, Village-Daulatpur, Tehsil-Sonkacch,
District-Dewas, Village-Palsawad, District-Sajapur and Village
Mehatwada, Tehsil-Jawar, District-Sehore. Village Panchayats were
already informed regarding public hearing and their
objections/suggestions were considered prior to issue EC. The
condition in EC has also not specified the name of authority to
obtain clearance/NOC. Therefore, objections raised in the
application is far from the facts. 4.0 Conclusion & Suggestions: (iii) Violation /non-compliance of any conditions imposed while
 granting approval under The Van (Sanrakshan Evam
 Samvardhan) Adhiniyam: forest area proportionate to the extent of forest area
 proposed for re diversion; (ii) Railways may require to convert the conventional
 system to the electrification of railway lines, in such
 change of land use cases, if no fresh forest area is
 required and such new component can be taken up
 within already diverted area without violating any
 such norms under others acts / rules, in such cases
 permission from the central government is not required
 and the UA may seek prior permission of the State
 Government in letter form and may make necessary
 changes as required. Details of such approvals
 accorded by the State/ UT may be submitted to the
 concerned ROs. This relaxation will not applicable to
 the projects falling in PAs. Similarly, for conversion of
 over head transmission line to underground lines, the
 above procedure shall be applicable. (iii) In case of transfer with re-diversion proposals, the
 proposed use should be compatible with the primary
 use and should not hinder it. A written consent from
 the primary user agency should be submitted without
 insisting any payment or charges from the new
 agency such written consents. (iv) In case the primary user agency refuses to give its
 consent, and the User Agency seeking re- diversion
 feels that the other use is compatible with and does
 not in any way hinder the primary use, the State / UT
 Nodal Officer who will after hearing the primary user
 giving him advance notice, give his agreement for the
 re-diversion or otherwise giving reasons for his
 decision in the form of a note while forwarding the
 proposal to the MoEF & CC / RO as the case may be
 for decision on re-diversion. (v) While permitting re-diversion, Central Government may
 if considered necessary modify original conditions or
 impose additional conditions to be fulfilled by the
 primary user agency and conditions (including rights
 and responsibilities to be fulfilled by the secondary 17 User Agency along with payment for (i) payment of
 NPV at the applicable rates; and (vi) The State/ UTs Government may consider the
 acceptance of NoCs issued by State PWD/NHAI or
 other similar agencies for setting up of retail outlets
 under Rows at any level on PARIVESH portal. The
 undertaking along with acknowledgment of the
 agencies owning RoW from the user agency stating
 that they have initiated the process of obtaining NOC
 may be considered for initial submission of proposal
 on PARIVESH. It is also to clarify that the process of
 obtaining NOC and its submission must be completed
 before the submission' of such proposals to Regional
 Office, provided that no such proposals in any case
 give rise to a situation of fate accompli or involved in
 violations of Van (Sanrakshan Evam Samvardhan)
 Adhiniyam, 1980 or other related Central or State
 Acts. (vii) Proposals of re-diversion falling in the RoW of roads,
 already put to non-forestry use, shall be dealt as per
 the guidelines given under chapter - 4 of the Hand
 book. 5. The plantations done under compensatory aff.orestation as
per the proposed scheme. The boundary demarcation is in
good condition and the survival percentage is satisfactory
considering the shortage of water for irrigation in the
plantation site. The committee found that there is a critical
problem of water at the plantation site and hence suggested to
the State Government that the solar base bore well system
can be tried on trial basis in such areas for the irrigations.
This is further suggested that state Govt should do some R&D
to create hardy varieties of indigenous tree species for such
water scarcity climatic conditions. 6. Compensatory Aforestation (CA) has been carried out on the
lands allotted for the purpose by the Forest Department 18 Shajapur. The plantation requires regular watering and
 placement plantation on the pits were plants could not
 survived so far. Regular monitoring by the Forest Department
 should be conducted and it is also to be ensured that plants
 survival rates should be increased. 7. Project Authorities has constructed tube-well, water tank,
 staff quarters, switch yard, RMC Plant without due permission
 of Forest Department, the Forest Department should take care
 of it and take necessary action and imposed penalty as per
 rule and project authorities should be directed to do the
 activities with due permission of the concern departments. 8. The Project Authorities improved the dust mitigations
 measures by providing regular water sprinklings over the
 roads and dumped soil/boulders for control of dust and
 ensure compliance of EC conditions. 9. The Project Authorities shall identify the site for
 Construction & Demolition waste processing and disposal in
 compliance of EC conditions. 5. Notices were also issued to the respondents and the respondents no. 4

 and 5 filed reply and submitted that on 05.01.2018, a Notice inviting

 Tender for development of state irrigation infrastructure was floated by

 Narmada Valley Development Department, Government of Madhya

 Pradesh for ISP Kalisindh Phase 1, Micro Lift Irrigation scheme to irrigate

 100000 Ha command areas of Dewas, Shajapur, and Sehore District

 ("Project"), as a solution to address the farmers' issue of water scarcity in

 this area. The said Project was subsequently awarded to Respondent No.

 4 and an Agreement dated 07.05.2018 was executed between

 Respondent No. 4 and Respondent No. 3 for the said purpose. The

 Project is aimed at implementation of an irrigation network for micro lift

 irrigation in the districts of Dewas, Sehore and Shajapur along with its

 intake situated in Khandwa District, in order to provide irrigation

 facilities to the water-scare areas and further improve the living standard

 of farmers. 6. Pursuant thereto, Respondent No. 3 had represented to have procured all

 approvals from the respective authorities related to the Project

 construction including Environmental Clearance ("EC") by M.P. State

 Environment Impact Assessment Authority ("MP-SEIAA") Bhopal on

 24.06.2019 and Forest Clearance C'FC") from Ministry of Environment,

 Forest and Climate Change on 28.07.2020, as well as drawings, for

 carrying out the Project smoothly. The main object of executing an

 irrigation infrastructure project is to improve the ecological balance of

 command area and the Answering Respondents, throughout the

 execution of the Project, have aimed at fulfilling the said object while

 safeguarding the forest and environment and based on the approvals

 obtained by Respondent No. 3, the Answering Respondents commenced

 the execution of the Project and hence, are not in violation of any

 conditions of the EC and FC or any other provisions of law till date. The

 Answering Respondents reaffirm their commitment to safeguard and

 preserve the environment at all costs and emphasize that they have no

 intention of disregarding any regulations or engaging in activities that

 could harm the environment or local communities. 7. The EC and FC clearances have been granted to Respondent No. 3 and

 no condition imposed in the EC or FC has been violated by the

 Answering Respondents, as alleged or otherwise. That in the captioned

 application, the applicant has failed to establish with substantial

 evidence that the conditions of the EC and FC granted to respondent

 no.3 are violated to cause any adverse impact on the environment, much

 less cause any loss or injury to the applicant. 8. Respondent No. 3 had obtained diversion of 160.055 hectares (71.784

 ha. ofK.handwa Forest Division & 88.271ha. of Dewas Forest Division) 20 Forest land for construction of ISP-Kalisindh Link Project in favour of

 Executive Engineer, Narmada Development Division 32, Barwah,

 District-Khargone. As per Condition No. 3 of the FC, Compensatory

 Afforestation was to be done over an area of 170.00 Ha by the Forest

 Department at the cost of the user agency. Accordingly, land for

 Compensatory Afforestation was handed over in Agar-Malwa district in

 the villages of Dehriya, Susner, Jamli and Chipiya and plantation was

 carried out by the Forest Department. Furthermore, the Forest

 Department has also maintained the records of the plantation online in

 plantation monitoring system. 9. The cost for afforestation (Net Present Value of that date) has already

 been deposited by Respondent No. 3, Forest Division Khandwa and

 Dewas under Compensatory Afforestation Fund Management and

 Planning Authority (CAMPA) head. To that end, Respondent No. 3 has

 deposited INR 7,08,81,613/- for Forest Division Dewas and INR

 5,76,42,552/- for Forest Division Khandwa, amounting to a total of INR

 12,85,24,165/-. Additionally, an amount ofINR 89,50,328/- (10% of the

 amount of compensatory afforestation i.e., INR 8,95,03,282/-) has also

 been deposited by Respondent No. 3 towards observation. Furthermore,

 INR 63,60,354/- and INR 1,23,44,436/- have been deposited to Forest

 Division Dewas and Forest Division Khandwa respectively, through the e-

 portal of Madhya Pradesh Government under revenue heads of (0406)

 Forestry and Wildlife, (01) Forestry, (800) Other Receipts and (0229)

 Miscellaneous Receipts. The same is clearly reflected in the Letter No: S.

 No./F-3/88/2018/10-11116/2154 dated 02.07.2019 issued by

 Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forest (Land Management),

 Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh to Forest Divisional Officers of Dewas,

 Khandwa and Shajapur. 21 10. Categorically dealing with the allegations of the Applicant and

 rendering its observations on the same. In respect of the alleged violation

 of Condition No. 3 of the FC, dealing with the issue of Compensatory

 Afforestation, it has been noted by the Joint Committee that the

 plantation has been carried out by the Forest Department. The Joint

 Committee also observed that the boundary demarcation is in good

 condition and the survival percentage is satisfactory, considering the

 shortage of water for irrigation in the plantation site. Hence, no violation

 or deficiencies in Compensatory Afforestation have been found by the

 Joint Committee in its Report, especially on part of the Answering

 Respondents. 11. The excavated soil/boulders generated during construction of

 Pump Houses and Approach Channel have been dumped on diverted

 land of Narmada Valley Development Authority ("NVDA"), Respondent No.

 3 herein, which was diverted by the Department of Environment, Forests

 and Wildlife, Ministry of Environment and Forest, Government of India

 vide letter no. 8-646/84 FC dated 07.10.1987 for the component

 "submergence" in the "Indira Sagar Project". The land has been handed

 over to Respondent No. 3 and is under the control of Narmada Vikas

 Division No. 32 Barwah. In fact, pursuant to directions of Forest

 Divisional Officer, Khandwa vide its letters dated 21.03.2024 and

 26.03.2024, a Joint Committee was constituted to inspect the Project site

 on 27.03.2024, which observed that 4,25,000 cum of excavated soil from

 the Pump Houses and Approach channel is being dumped on the

 abovementioned diverted land, handed over to Respondent No. 3.

 Notably, the aforesaid diversion ofland has also been verified in the Joint

 Committee Report and it has been observed that the soil and boulders,

 which are the property of the forest, are being dumped on diverted forest

 land of submergence area and not the located outside forest, as alleged

 by the Applicant. Furthermore, it is worthwhile to point out that the 22 Forest Range Officer, Chandigarh vide its letter dated 12.11.2020, had

 acknowledged the use of diverted land for dumping purposes by

 Respondent No. 3 for the Project. 12. The Applicant has alleged that the unauthorized dumping of

 soil/boulders is a violation of Condition No. 25 of the EC and is causing

 air pollution in the vicinity. In this regard, it is submitted that since the

 excavated soil is not being dumped in an open area and is being utilized

 for backfilling purposes after the construction of pump houses, there is

 no air pollution caused in the vicinity. Moreover, the backfilled soils are

 also being compacted up to the optimum level. Furthermore, it is stated

 that the Answering Respondents have undertaken several measures for

 proper disposal of hazardous wastes, oils, batteries and other major

 pollutants in order to fully comply with the aforesaid condition. 13. It is further argued that the project proponent is regularly

 sprinkling water to mitigate the dust and further that pipeline has been

 lay out as per approved plan and well within the knowledge of the forest

 department and lay out plan has never been changed. Construction of

 Pump Houses consists of various components including Pump and Motor

 Erection Place, 132 KV switch yard staff quarters and electrical building. 14. It is submitted that the concrete water tank was a temporary

 structure, constructed specifically for mixing concrete and was

 dismantled in the month of August 2020. During this interim period, it

 was suggested by Respondent No. 3, vide its Letter dated 09 .06.2020,

 that the said water tank can be utilized by forest officials to provide

 drinking water for animals and for plantation purposes. The Joint

 Committee constituted by this Hon'ble Tribunal has also observed that

 the water tank has now been dismantled. As such, currently, there is no

 encroachment of the forest land. The aforesaid fact had also been duly 23 noted by Forest Range Officer Chandigarh in the Letter dated

 12.11.2020. 15. The pipeline is being laid out as per approved drawings and norms

 maintaining the specific cover depth contained in the EC and FC. As per

 Condition No. 2 of the FC, "The pipeline shall be laid down 1.5 m below

 the ground and after laying down of the pipeline the ground will be

 leveled". The Answering Respondents have leveled the ground accordingly

 and no open chambers/excavated area is being left out. In fact, pursuant

 to directions of Forest Divisional Officer, Khandwa vide its letter dated

 21.03 .2024, a Joint Inspection was carried out at the Project site on 27

 .03 .2024 wherein it was confirmed that the pipeline has been laid out in

 due compliance of Condition No. 2 of the FC. In compliance of the

 directions issued by Forest Divisional Officer, Khandwa, the Forest

 Range Officer, Chandigarh directed his team to be present for the site

 inspection. 16. No labour camp has been established on the forest land. The

 structure established by the Answering Respondents is temporary and

 built on a Private Land at Pamakhedi Village, which is outside the Forest

 area. Therefore, there is no permanent structure built by the Answering

 Respondents as a labour camp, in violation of General Condition No. 4 of

 the FC. Moreover, the Joint Committee Report also records that no

 labour camp was observed in the forest area during the inspection of the

 site held on 10.04.2024. Pertinently, the structures assumed to be

 labour camp by the Applicant, were, infact, maintenance staff quarters. 17. However, the Joint Committee has observed that such staff

 quarters built on diverted forest land were not added by the Answering

 Respondents in its layout plan submitted earlier for clearance from

 Forest Department and therefore, tantamount to change in the layout

 plan. In this context, it is submitted that staff quarters are in line 24 structures forming part of the Pump House. The same have been

 constructed at a safe distance from the location of pumps, motors &

 heavy electrical items to accommodate the staff during the operation and

 maintenance stage of the Project, who are also required to undertake

 security and preventive measures. It is pertinent to note that, without

 these staff quarters, which provide essential manual control over the

 Pump Houses, there would be an increased risk of safety issues,

 accidents, and potential disasters. 18. Additionally, it is submitted by the Answering Respondents that

 two tubewells, only one of which is operational, have been installed for

 extracting groundwater on the pump house site. It is submitted that the

 extracted water is being utilized solely for drinking purposes for the

 employed staff and workmen/labour during the construction stage of the

 Project and will also be required in future during the Operation Stage, for

 the staff/workmen who will be handling the maintenance and operation

 of project pumps at Intake Complex (i.e., place consisting of Pump House

 1 and Pump House 2). In this regard, it is pertinent to draw reference to

 the Guidelines, which regulate and control ground water extraction in

 India, issued by the Ministry of Jal Shakti on 24.09.2022 (amended on

 29.03.2023). The Guidelines clearly state that, "All Industries/ Mining

 projects I Infrastructure Projects drawing ground water only for

 drinking/domestic purposes upto 5 Cum/day in all assessment units" 23. The particulars of public hearings conducted have been stipulated

 in detail in the Executive Summary dated 19.02.2019 for the

 Environmental Impact Assessment Study conducted in respect of the

 Project. The Executive Summary mentions that the public had

 unanimously asserted that the Project should be implemented at the

 earliest for reaping the irrigation benefits. True Copy of the Executive

 Summary dated 19.02.2019 for the Environmental Impact Assessment

 Study conducted in respect of ISP Kalisindh Micro lift Irrigation Scheme,

 MP is annexed herewith and marked as Annexure R-18. The Final Report

 of the Environmental Impact Assessment Study also contains relevant

 information pertaining to the public hearings including the

 suggestions/comments of various stakeholders, demonstrating that

 proper public hearings were conducted prior to grant of EC. 24. Respondent no.3, Narmada Valley Development Authority has filed

 the reply and learned counsel for the respondent has submitted that

 Respondent hereby affirms and assures that no conditions of

 Environmental Clearance and Forest Clearance have been violated in any

 manner whatsoever. The Respondent underscores its unwavering

 commitment to full compliance with all relevant environmental and forest

 preservation regulations, as stipulated by the appropriate authorities.

 Furthermore, the Respondent emphasizes its utmost regard for the

 preservation of forests and the environment at large, acknowledging the

 critical importance of maintaining ecological balance and protecting 28 natural resources. The Respondent has implemented stringent measures

 and continuous monitoring processes to ensure that all activities

 undertaken are in strict adherence to the stipulated conditions of the

 Environmental Clearance and Forest Clearance. Any deviations or non-

 compliance issues, if identified, are promptly addressed with corrective

 actions to mitigate any potential environmental impact. This affirmation

 is made to convey the Respondent's dedication to sustainable

 development and environmental stewardship, aligning with both legal

 requirements and the broader objective of fostering environmental

 conservation. The Respondent remains committed to transparency and

 accountability in its operations, continually striving to enhance its

 environmental performance and contribute positively to the conservation

 of forests and natural habitats. 25. The implementation of Phase 1 of the Kalisindh Irrigation Project

 was sanctioned by the government under public interest on 19.04.2018,

 wherein approximately 1,00,000 hectares of land for cultivation and

 farming across 288 villages in the districts of Dewas, Sehore, and

 Shajapur will be irrigated. That for this project, a total of 71.780 hectares

 of forest land in the Khandwa Forest Division and 88.271 hectares in

 Dewas have been surveyed, approved and diverted by the Ministry of

 Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Government of India

 (hereinafter referred as ―MoEF&CC‖), vide letters numbered No.6-

 MPA07/2019-BHO/426 dated 28.05.2019 and No.6-MPA07/2019-

 BHO/612 dated 28.07.2020. Furthermore, land for Compensatory

 afforestation has been allocated in Agar Malwa district, comprising 30

 hectares in Gram Jamli Survey No. 1088/2, 55 hectares in Gram Chipiya

 Survey No. 1343/1/1, and 85.70 hectares in Gram Dehariya Susner

 Survey Nos. 1037, 1039, 1041, and 1047, where afforestation has been

 carried out. 29 26. Thereafter, Notice Inviting Tenders were floated for the

 construction of Phase 1 of the Kalisindh Irrigation Project and the same

 was awarded to one Larson & Toubro Limited (Respondent No. 4) and

 thereafter an agreement was executed between the answering respondent

 and Respondent no. 4. area earmarked for the implementation of the

 aforementioned project lies within the reserved forest area of Chandgarh,

 in the Beet Bakapalas compartment number 285. That the demarcation

 of this area has been completed, and trenches have been constructed. 27. That in compliance of Stage -- I Forest Clearance Collector, Agar

 has allotted a total of 170.70 hectares to the Forest Department for

 compensatory afforestation. That for the convenience of this Hon'ble

 Tribunal, detailed tabular representation of land transferred for

 compensatory afforestation is herein below :- 28. For compensatory afforestation in total amount of Rs.

 8,95,03,2821- has been paid in CAMPA head against compensatory

 scheme and 89,50,3281- has been paid to District Forrest Officer

 Shajapur, as supervision Fee and thereafter the same is the scope of

 DFO, Shajapur. 29. All excavated soil obtained from the forest area remains the

 property of the forest itself. This soil has been meticulously kept and

 stored within the boundary limits of the diverted land to ensure proper 30 management and containment. Measures have been implemented to

 prevent dust pollution, including regular watering and rolling of the

 dumped soil, thereby maintaining environmental standards and

 preventing any adverse impacts on air quality. In response to the

 Divisional Forest Officer Khandwa's correspondence, the answering

 respondent has provided comprehensive replies vide letters dated

 09.06.2020 and dated 20.08.2020. These communications include

 detailed information on the demarcation of the diverted forest land and

 demonstrate full compliance with all objections raised by the Divisional

 Forest Officer. The Respondent reiterates its commitment to adhering to

 all regulatory requirements and maintaining transparency in its

 operations, ensuring that all actions are in alignment with environmental

 preservation and legal mandates. 30. The answering respondent has obtained No Objection Certificates

 from affected Gram Panchayats. That Public hearings for the ISP-

 Kalisindh Micro Lift Irrigation Scheme were conducted by the Madhya

 Pradesh Pollution Control Board (MPPCB) and chaired by the Additional

 District Magistrates of the respective districts on the 12th, 13th, 14th,

 and 15th of February 2019. These proceedings are documented in the

 Minutes of the 531st Meeting of SEIAA dated 18.03.2019. The relevant

 extract from Minutes of the 531st Meeting of SEIAA dated 18.03.2019 are

 marked and annexed herewith as Annexure R3/7. 31. A comprehensive field survey was conducted for the project within

 the Chandigarh and Mundi ranges prior to the approval of forest

 clearance. This detailed survey meticulously identified and cataloged all

 trees within the proposed forest land slated for diversion. Each tree was

 counted and classified according to its specific category, ensuring an

 accurate and thorough assessment of the environmental impact. The

 findings from this exhaustive survey were integral to the forest clearance

 process, providing essential data for informed decision-making and

 compliance with relevant environmental regulations. 32. The submission of the learned counsel for respondent no.8,

 Divisional Forest Officer, Khandwa are that the implementation of Phase

 1 of the Kalisindh Irrigation Project was sanctioned by the government

 under public interest on 19.04.2018, wherein approximately 1,00,000

 hectares of land for cultivation and farming across 288 villages in the

 districts of Dewas, Sehore, and Shajapur will be irrigated. That for this

 project, a total of 71.780 hectares of forest land in the Khandwa Forest

 Division and 88.271 hectares in Dewas have been surveyed, approved

 and diverted by the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate

 Change, Government of India (hereinafter referred as ―MoEF&CC‖), vide

 letters numbered No.6-MPA07/2019- BHO/426 dated 28.05.2019 and

 No.6-MPA07/2019-BHO/612 dated 28.07.2020. Furthermore, land for

 Compensatory afforestation has been allocated in Agar Malwa district,

 comprising 30 hectares in Gram Jamli Survey No. 1088/2, 55 hectares

 in Gram Chipiya Survey No. 1343/1/1, and 85.70 hectares in Gram

 Dehariya Susner Survey Nos. 1037, 1039, 1041, and 1047, where

 afforestation has been carried out. 33. Thereafter the area earmarked for the implementation of the

 aforementioned project lies within the reserved forest area of Chandgarh, 32 in the Beet Bakapalas compartment number 285. That the demarcation

 of this area has been completed, and trenches have been constructed.

 The execution agency, Larsen & Toubro Limited (hereinafter referred as

 ―L&T‖) was allocated the tender from Narmada Valley Development

 Authority, Division 32, Badwah, effective from 12.04.2021 and an

 agreement was executed. The Chandgarh survey area spans 51.034

 hectares, with a forested area of 20.95 hectares. 34. It is further submitted that Collector, Agar has allotted a total of

 170.70 hectares to the Forest Department for compensatory

 afforestation. Detailed tabular representation of land transferred for

 compensatory afforestation is herein below :- प.क.35/अ-19(3)/2017-18 Dated 31.08.2018 are marked and annexed

 herewith as Annexure R-5 (Colly.) 35. Thereafter, afforestation was carried out on the aforementioned

 land, and that for the convenience of this Hon'ble Tribunal the details of

 afforestation are reproduced herein below : 36. It is stated that the survival rate of trees planted on the

aforementioned lands have an outstanding survival rate of above 90% in all

the three villages and the same can be verified from internal evaluation

conducted by officials at the level of Sub-Divisional Forest Officers of

various forest divisions, as per the directives of the Divisional Forest

Officer, both before and after monsoon. 37. An application under the Right to Information Act (RTI) was filed by

the applicant on 07.03.2023, received at the Forest Division Office,

Shajapur, on 22.03.2023. Thereafter the Office of the Public Information

Officer, vide letter no./RTI/A./2023/1049 dated 18.04.2023, scheduled an

inspection on 01.05.2023, for which a notice was issued. However, due to

non-appearance of the applicant on the stipulated date and time, the

application was deemed abandoned, vide letter no./RTI.A./2023/1166

dated 02.05.2023. Thereafter the applicant filed an RTI appeal petition

before the First Appellate Authority and the same was received on

01.05.2023 and a letter was dispatched for appearance at the Forest

Division Office, Shajapur, on 02.06.2023. Following the hearing, the

appellant was provided with partial information on points 1 and 2, free of

charge, and subsequently, an order for the dismissal of the case was issued

by the Appellate Officer and the Forest Division Officer, vide order

no./RTI/2023/628 dated 22.06.2023. 38. Furthermore, geo-tagged photographs along with plantation site

KML, of afforestation at 1088/2, Village - Jamli, Survey No. 1343/1/1, 34 Village - Chipiya and Survey No. 1037, 1039, 1041, 1047, Village - Dehriya

Susner are marked and annexed herewith as Annexure R-9. 39. Four blocks measuring 11 by 16 meters each have been

constructed on the diverted forest land for the operation of the pump house

switchboard and for staff residence/quarters for security and maintenance

and one new borewell for project work and drinking water and that the same

was not part of the original project plan and therefore, legal proceedings will

be initiated, and penalties will be imposed in accordance with the rule of

law. 40. The Kalisindh Irrigation Project is for the welfare of the farmers of

 Dewas, Sehore, and Shajapur and will provide much needed irrigation to

 288 villages, thereby supporting the backbone of the Indian Economy,

 and furthermore the land allotted to the forest department in exchange

 for the construction of Phase - I Kalisindh Irrigation Project has

 portrayed exemplary results not just in the number of trees planted, but

 the survivability rate as well. 41. The Madhya Pradesh State Environmental Impact Assessment

 Authority (MPSEIAA) was directed to submit the reply with regard to

 clarification on the point of requirement of EC by the MoEF & CC or the

 SEIAA and in compliance thereof, the respondent MPSEIAA has filed the

 reply and submitted that the Ministry of Environment, Forest and

 Climate Change (hereinafter referred as ―MOEF&CC‖) vide Notification,

 S.O.3067(E) dated 01.12.2009, amended the Environment Impact

 Assessment Notification, 2006, wherein against item 1(c), for the entries

 in column 5 it was added that irrigation projects not involving

 submergence or inter-state domain shall be appraised by SEIAA as

 category ‗B' projects. 35 42. In compliance of aforementioned, Executive Engineer, Office of the

 Executive Engineer, Narmada Development Division No. 32, Barwağa,

 Distt. Khargone, applied for Prior Environment Clearances for ISP -

 Kalisindh Lift Micro Irrigation Scheme Link Project Phase-I, Lifting Point: 43. The standing counsel, Union of India has filed the copy of the reply

 of Show Cause Notice submitted by the Project Proponent and argued

 that pursuant to award of Tender dated 19.04.2018 by Government of

 Madhya Pradesh, Narmada Valley Development Department

 ("Employer"), L&T is executing the work of development of state irrigation

 infrastructure for ISP Kalisindh Phase 1, Micro Lift irrigation scheme to

 irrigate 100000 Ha (in words One Lakh Hectare) command areas of

 Dewas, Shajapur, and Sehore District as a solution to address the

 farmers issue of water scarcity for irrigation in this area ("Project"). The

 Project pertains to implementation of irrigation infrastructure and

 improving the economic conditions of the farmers. L&T had obtained

 requisite environmental clearances, forest clearance and drawing 36 approvals from relevant authorities and commenced the Project on

 07.05.2018. The infrastructure projects such as Kalisindh Irrigation

 Project, as specified by Narmada Water Dispute Tribunal ("NWDT"), are

 designed after seeking due permissions from all the concerned

 authorities/Employer. The extracted water is being utilized for drinking

 water purposes for the employed staff and workmen/labour during the

 construction stage of the Project and will also be required in future

 during the Operation Stage, for the staff/workmen who will be handling

 the maintenance and operation of irrigation project pumps at Intake

 Complex (i.e., place consisting of Pump House 1 and Pump House 2). The

 exemption provided in the Notified Guidelines to regulate and control

 ground water extraction in India dated 24.09.2022, amended on

 29.03.2023, issued by the Ministry of Jal Shakti ("Guidelines"), which

 has a retrospective effect. The Guideline clearly states that, "All

 Industries/ Mining projects / Infrastructure Projects drawing ground

 water only for drinking / domestic purposes upto 5 Cum/ day in all

 assessment units" are exempted from seeking No Objection Certificate. 44. Learned counsel for the MPSEIAA, Parul Bhadoria has submitted

 that River Valley Project involving cultural command area denies the

 general conditions and falls under category ‗B' and have been mentioned

 at serial no. 1 (C) column B of Schedule of EIA notification hence such

 projects are required to obtained prior EC from SEIAA and thus the

 application for EC was forwarded by SEIAA to SEAC for scoping so as to

 determined TOR to carry out EIA and prepare EMP. 45. Learned counsel for the applicant has submitted that the Joint

 Committee has found that without the permission from the Forest

 Department while constructing the Tube well, water tank staff quarter

 switch yard and RMC plant has been constructed by the Project

 Proponent which is in violation of conditions. In reply thereof, learned 37 counsel for the respondent has submitted that the switch yard operator

 room, water tank has now been demolished and cement mixture plant

 was temporary component in project and designated for the construction

 of the component pump house. 46. With regard to dumping of the excavated soil, it has been replied

 by the project proponent that the excavated soil from the pump house

 and the approach channel is being dumped on the diverted land handed

 over to the respondent no.3. construction of the water tank was

 temporarily structure which was later on demolished as reported by the

 Joint Committee and there are sprinkling of water being carried out

 regularly by the respondents and thus there is sufficient compliance of

 the conditions. 47. After perusal of the report and reply submitted by the respondents

 and hearing the arguments, we are of the view that the conditions of

 environmental clearance has been satisfactorily complied by the project

 proponent and further that the main object of the project is executing

 irrigation infrastructure to improve the ecological balance of command

 area and for fulfilling the said object while safeguarding the forest and

 environment, the required steps has been taken by the respondents. 48. Accordingly, no violation has been found, thus no further action is

 required to be taken by this Tribunal. However, we direct that the

 conditions as laid down in the EC should be periodically monitored by

 the State Pollution Control Board and the authorities concerned and the

 respondents are bound to comply the environmental conditions and to

 strictly observe it. State Pollution Control Board is directed to

 periodically monitor it and to ensure the measures which are required to

 be taken for compliance of the environmental conditions. 38 49. With these observations, this application stands disposed of. SHEO KUMAR SINGH, JM

 DR. SENTHIL VEL, EM

27th August, 2024
O.A No. 33/2024 (CZ)
PU 39