1. Justice to all - the accused, the society as well as a fair
 chance to prove to the prosecution - is not only an integral
 part of the criminal justice system but it is its prime
 objective. This finds reiteration by the Supreme Court of
 India in the judgment reported at ( 2012) 8 SCC 263, Dayal
 Singh and Ors. v. State of Uttaranchal when the court
 emphasized thus: 2. In the two trials giving rise to these appeals, these are the
 public duties which the learned Trial Judges have
 endeavoured to discharge. While adjudicating upon these
 appeals, it is these very duties which we have been called
 upon to perform. 3. The appellants in Crl. Appeal nos.741/2008 and 910/2008
 have assailed the judgment dated 28th May, 2008 in SC Case
 No.78/2002 whereby they stand convicted for commission of
 offences under Sections 364 , 302 , 201 of the Indian Penal
 Code and the order on sentence dated 30th May, 2008.
 Whereas the appellant in Crl.Appeal No.145/2012 has laid a
 challenge to the judgment dated 6th of July 2011 whereby he
 stands convicted for commission of the same offence in SC
 Case No.76/2008 and order on sentence dated 12th of July
 2011. By the present judgment, we propose to decide the challenge
 to the judgments dated 28th of May 2008 and 6th July, 2011
 on which detailed arguments have been addressed. The case of the prosecution 4. We may first briefly notice the case of the prosecution. The
 Katara family were residents of 7 Chelmsford Road, New
 Delhi, an official accommodation allotted to Shri Nishit M.
 Katara, government servant. The family consisted of his Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 4 wife Nilam Katara; their elder son Nitish Katara (deceased)
 and a second son Nitin Katara. 5. In the year 1998, Nitish Katara joined the IMT, Ghaziabad in
 order to pursue an MBA (PGDBM) course. In his class, he
 befriended Gaurav Gupta, Bharat Diwakar and Bharti Yadav
 (daughter of Shri D.P. Yadav, Member of Parliament and an
 industrialist). Bharti Yadav's best friend from childhood,
 Shivani Gaur, was also studying at IMT Ghaziabad but
 pursuing a different course at that time, i.e. the PGDEM
 course, specializing in marketing. 6. The course finished in the year 2000 whereafter Bharat
 Diwakar and Gaurav Gupta moved away to their respective
 home towns while Nitish Katara took a job with Reliance
 General Insurance in Delhi itself as his father was ill. Bharti
 continued to reside in the National Capital Region as well.
 In around January, 2001 with passage of time the friendship
 of this young couple blossomed into a love affair. This
 relationship was known to Bharti's family members and
 relatives including her sister Bhawna Yadav, mother Umlesh
 Yadav, brother Vikas Yadav, cousin brother Vishal Yadav as
 well as her maternal aunt (‗mami‟ -mother's brother's
 wife/wife of Bharat Singh) and paternal aunt (‗bua' -father's
 sister). It is the prosecution case that this relationship was not
 palatable to Vikas and Vishal Yadav, and that they were
 opposed to it. This aversion was the motive for the
 abduction and murder of Nitish Katara. 7. An alliance was fixed of Shivani Gaur with one Amit Arora,
 and they got engaged on 4th June, 2001. Their marriage was
 fixed on the night of 16th February, 2002. To this wedding,
 Shivani Gaur invited the family of Bharti Yadav as well as
 the family of Nitish Katara. She also invited her old friends
 Bharat Diwakar and Gaurav Gupta. 8. To attend the wedding and other related ceremonies, Bharat
 Diwakar came to Delhi from Madhya Pradesh and stayed
 with the family of his friend Nitish Katara at 7 Chelmsford
 Road, New Delhi. The two friends attended the sangeet
 ceremony in connection with the marriage on the night of
 15th February, 2002 where Nitish Katara danced with Bharti.
 On 16th February 2002, Nitish Katara and Bharat Diwakar
 went in a hired taxi to participate in Shivani Gaur's wedding
 and they reached the wedding venue around 10:00/10:15 pm
 and greeted the bride. Bharti Yadav was on the dias with the
 bride and they got a picture taken at the wedding with Bharti
 Yadav and the bride (Exh PW 6/2). 9. Vikas and Vishal Yadav also went to Shivani Gaur's
 wedding and the prosecution led evidence that they reached
 there after 11:00 pm. 10. Gaurav Gupta came to attend the wedding from Faizabad on
 the 16th of February, 2002 itself and was picked up from the
 railway station by another friend namely, Yashoman Tomar.
 He was dropped at the wedding venue by Yashoman Tomar
 at about 11:15/11:30 p.m. 11. While Nitish Katara, Bharat Diwakar and Gaurav Gupta
 were eating dinner, a young person approached Nitish Katara
 and took him aside. Bharat Diwakar subsequently learnt that
 the name of this person was Vishal Yadav. 12. As per the prosecution, between midnight and 12:30 a.m.,
 Nitish Katara was thereafter spotted with the three appellants
 in a Tata Safari bearing Punjab registration No.PB-07H-
 0085 outside the venue by security guards; then by Ct.
 Inderjeet Singh and Ct. Satender Pal Singh (police personnel
 on checking duty in gypsy Chetak 13) parked a little distance
 from the Diamond Palace Banquet Hall and finally by Ajay
 Kumar at the Hapur Chungi. Nitish Katara was not seen
 alive thereafter. 13. Bharat Diwakar and Gaurav Gupta finished their meal and
 decided to return to their respective accommodations. Upon
 receipt of a message about Yashoman Tomar's arrival to Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 7 pick up Gaurav, they searched for Nitish Katara at the
 wedding venue but could not find him. Gaurav Gupta also
 made unsuccessful efforts to contact Nitish Katara on his
 mobile. Bharat Diwakar had also unsuccessfully tried to
 contact Nitish Katara on the telephone and thereafter decided
 to return to 7 Chelmsford Road, New Delhi. He left the
 wedding venue and reached the Katara residence alone at
 about 3:00 am in a hired taxi. 14. It appears that in the meantime, Bharti Yadav became frantic
 as her brothers and Sukhdev @ Pehalwan had taken away
 Nitish Katara. She made desperate attempts to reach him on
 his phone. She also tried to track her brothers by calling the
 landline numbers at her residence but was unable to find
 them. By 7:00 am of the 17th of February 2002, Bharti
 Yadav had called up Bharat Diwakar several times out of
 anxiety to know the whereabouts of Nitish Katara. 15. Back at 7 Chelmsford Road, New Delhi, Nilam Katara
 (mother of Nitish Katara) was surprised to see Bharat
 Diwakar returning alone. In answer to the query of Nilam
 Katara as to why he returned alone, he could not give any
 satisfactory answer and went off to sleep. 16. Nilam Katara was also unsuccessful in contacting Nitish
 Katara on his mobile phone. Unable to sleep because of
 anxiety, she saw that all the family cars were parked outside Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 8 her house. She woke Bharat Diwakar up and asked him as to
 how Nitish Katara would return home. Bharat Diwakar
 disclosed to her that they had gone to Ghaziabad by taxi in
 which he alone had returned and that Nitish would come
 with somebody else. Bharat Diwakar also stated to Nilam
 Katara that he had not met Nitish Katara before returning to
 Delhi. He had no answer as to how he derived the
 knowledge that Nitish will come with somebody else. 17. Nilam Katara then took Bharti Yadav's phone number from
 Bharat Diwakar and called her from the landline phone.
 Bharti Yadav disclosed that she was also unsuccessful in
 reaching Nitish Katara. Bharti Yadav also asked Nilam
 Katara as to whether the boys (Bharat Diwakar and Gaurav
 Gupta) had not told her that her brothers Vikas and Vishal
 Yadav had taken Nitish Katara away from the wedding.
 Bharti Yadav also informed Nilam Katara that her brothers
 were not informing her about anything and that Nilam
 Katara should speak to her father. 18. When questioned again, Bharat Diwakar told Nilam Katara
 that he had been told by Rohit Gaur (brother of the bride
 Shivani Gaur) that Vishal Yadav was the person who had
 called away Nitish Katara and who had seen Nitish Katara
 going with Vishal Yadav. 19. Nilam Katara made desperate calls to Shri D.P. Yadav who
 also told her that he had heard something and would call her
 if he got any information. To a second phone call, he told
 her that he was busy in elections and would get back to her. 20. Nilam Katara also rang up Bharti Yadav to tell her that if she
 is not able to get any information about her son, she would
 go to the police station to lodge a complaint and that she
 would be giving Bharti's name as well in the complaint. To
 that Bharti Yadav responded that Nilam Katara should give
 Bharti's name to the police even if it was a slur to her family
 and that Nilam did not know what they were doing to her
 son. 21. On 17th February, 2002 between 11:30 am and 12:00 noon,
 having failed to ascertain the whereabouts of her son, Nilam
 Katara lodged a complaint with the police station Ghaziabad. 22. The handwritten complaint made by PW-30 Nilam Katara
 on 17th February, 2002 was in vernacular which was
 registered as FIR No.192/02 under Section 364 of the IPC
 (Exh.PW-1/A) and the translation thereof reads as follows: Nitish (my son) and Bharti Yadav D/o Sh. D.P.
 Yadav had studied together between 1998 to
 2000 at the IMT and shared a friendship. Possibly (‗sambhavtah') Vishal, Vikas did not
 like this friendship. Therefore, you are
 requested to record this information and kindly
 undertake the necessary action. Nilam Katara
 7, Chelmsford Road
 (Exh.PW-1/A)‖
 In this complaint thus she stated that her son was missing;
 she had briefly written about his relationship with Bharti
 Yadav and made a reference to possible objections thereto
 by her brothers Vikas and Vishal Yadav. SI Anil Somania
 was appointed as the investigating officer in the case. 23. From the police station, Nilam Katara contacted Bharti
 Yadav on her mobile when Bharti informed that she has
 been taken away to Faridabad to her sister's house; that
 nobody was telling her anything and that Nilam Katara
 should search for her son as time was crucial. Nilam Katara Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 11 was unable to get any information from Shri D.P. Yadav's
 house where she met Bharti Yadav's mother Umlesh who
 knew close details of Nilam Katara's family. Bharti Yadav
 was physically spirited away from her residence in
 Ghaziabad and sent to Faridabad on the 17 th of February
 2002 itself. 24. At about 9:00/9:15 am in the morning of 17th February,
 2002, Police Station Khurja received a message from Shri
 Virender Kumar that a badly burnt dead body was lying on
 the Shikharpur Road near Khurja. Inspector Chander Pal
 Singh proceeded to the spot with Constable Mudassar Khan
 and found a dead body which had been burnt beyond
 recognition in a ‗khai' (gorge/pit) near the road. The
 panchnama of the dead body (Exh.PW3/2A) was recorded
 with regard to the recovery of the dead body as well as the
 steps taken by the police to identify the body on that day. 25. A post-mortem was conducted on the corpse on the 18th of
 February 2002 by Dr. Anil Singhal, an Orthopaedic Surgeon
 in the District Hospital, Bulandshahr who opined the cause
 of death as ―death due to coma as a result of ante mortem
 head injury with post mortem burn‖. 26. The doctor had observed a fracture injury about 7 cms above
 the left eyebrow of the dead body. The post mortem report Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 12 (Exh.PW3/3) also shows a lacerated wound measuring 3x2
 cms. 27. A message was received by Police Station Ghaziabad on 19 th
 February, 2002 about the discovery of the dead body which
 was lying in the mortuary. 28. On the 21st of February 2002, S.I. Anil Somania took Smt.
 Nilam Katara for identification of the dead body to the
 mortuary in Khurja. Nilam Katara identified the body as that
 of her son, Nitish Katara by examining his left palm which
 was not burnt and comparing it with her own hand, as Nitish
 Katara had unusually small hands. 29. In order to further confirm the identity of the dead body, the
 police took steps for getting a DNA examination conducted
 on samples drawn from the dead body and compared it with
 samples drawn from Nilam Katara and her husband Nishit
 Katara. These samples were sent for DNA examination to
 Central Forensic Science Laboratory, Calcutta. A report
 dated 7th March, 2002 (Exh.PW17/1) received from the
 laboratory concluded that the dead body belonged to
 biological son of Nilam Katara and Nishit M. Katara. It is in
 evidence that Nitish Katara was cremated only on 12th
 March, 2002. 30. In the meantime, after the registration of the case on 17 th of
 February 2002, the police at Ghaziabad took intensive steps Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 13 to search for Vikas and Vishal Yadav, brothers of Bharti
 Yadav. Despite best efforts, they could not be traced at their
 residence or the known places which they usually visited till
 Anil Somania saw a TV report to the effect that Vikas and
 Vishal Yadav had been arrested that morning by police
 station Dabra in District Gwalior in the early hours on 23rd
 February, 2002. Immediate steps were taken by Anil
 Somania to travel to Dabra so as to arrest the brothers in the
 present case. The two were brought to Ghaziabad and
 produced before the Court of Chief Judicial Magistrate ,
 Ghaziabad on 25th February, 2002 (‗CJM Ghaziabad'
 hereafter). 31. On 25th February, 2002, the investigating officer sought
 police custody remand of the accused persons to record their
 statements under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. The CJM,
 Ghaziabad granted permission and the Investigating Officer
 proceeded to the Ghaziabad Jail to record the statements of
 the two accused. 32. Both Vikas and Vishal Yadav gave disclosure statements on
 the 25th of February 2002 which were recorded by
 Investigating Officer Anil Somania in the case diary as per
 the requirement in U.P. In view of the bar under Section 162 of the Cr.P.C., he did not obtain the signatures of the two
 accused. These statements were confessional in nature
 however, they made disclosure of the following facts: 33. It is noteworthy that on 25th February, 2002, the police also
 made an application to the CJM, Ghaziabad informing the
 court about the inclusion of commission of offence under Sections 302 and 201 of the IPC in the diary. Appropriate
 endorsements were recorded in the records accordingly. 34. According to the police, on the 2nd of March 2002, they were
 permitted to record a statement under Section 161 of the
 Cr.P.C. of Bharti Yadav at her residence in Ghaziabad. At
 the time of recording of the statement of Bharti Yadav by
 Anil Somania accompanied by one police official Anju
 Bhadoria, her father Shri D.P. Yadav remained present. In
 this statement (Exh.PW35/AB), Bharti Yadav had disclosed
 the full particulars of the ‗Pehalwan' (disclosed by Vikas and Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 15 Vishal Yadav) as ‗Sukhdev Pehalwan'. He was also present
 in Shivani Gaur's wedding on the night of 16th February,
 2002 and that ‗Sukhdev Pehalwan' was working in their
 liquor vends in Bulandshahr, U.P. She also stated that Nitish
 Katara had been taken away by these people from the
 wedding of Shivani Gaur itself. Bharti disclosed about her
 relationship with Nitish Katara, exchange of gifts etc. 35. Armed with this information, on 3rd February, 2002 the
 police laid a trap to apprehend Sukhdev @ Pehalwan in
 Bulandshahr area. He could not be physically apprehended
 but the police laid their hands on a guarantee card bearing a
 photograph and his complete address (Exh.PW22/A1 in the
 trial of Sukhdev Yadav). 36. A separate police team was constituted for apprehension and
 arrest of Sukhdev Pehalwan. Raids were conducted in
 several places but he could not be apprehended even at his
 native village. Arrest warrants from the court were also of
 no consequence. On 31st March, 2002, Sukhdev Yadav was
 consequently declared a proclaimed offender, an award was
 declared for information about him and a proclamation for
 the reward was published in a newspaper with a photograph
 and also telecast on T.V. An arms licence for a double barrel
 gun which was held by Sukhdev Yadav from Bulandshahr,
 U.P. was got cancelled in the year, 2002 by the Investigating
 Officer. 37. So far as investigation against Vikas and Vishal Yadav is
 concerned, in view of the disclosures made by them, the
 police made an application to the CJM, Ghaziabad on 26th
 February, 2002 seeking police custody remand so as to effect
 the recoveries pursuant thereto. The court directed
 production of the two accused who were produced in court
 on the 27th of February 2002. In the presence of their
 counsel as well as Vikas and Vishal Yadav, the court granted
 24 hours police custody remand starting from 9:00 am of
 28th February, 2002 to 9:00 am of 1st March, 2002. The
 court had already permitted counsel to be present with the
 accused persons during the police remand. 38. On the 28th of February 2002, the investigating officer took
 custody of Vikas and Vishal Yadav from the Ghaziabad jail
 and got their medical done. Shri Satpal Singh Yadav,
 Advocate accompanied the accused. These appellants first
 pointed out the spot near the Aughwar Railway crossing as
 the site of the crime as well as the spot where the dead body
 was thereafter burnt on the Khurja - Pahasu road. Site plans
 were drawn by the police. Thereafter, Vikas Yadav
 proceeded to a clump of ‗pattel' bushes and, after searching,
 took out a hammer (with blood stains on one end of the
 hammer head) from amongst the bushes. Vishal Yadav
 searched in another clump of ‗pattel‟ bushes and pulled out a
 wrist watch from amongst them which, as per the Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 17 prosecution, was worn by Nitish Katara on that fateful night.
 No mobile phone was recovered. A combined recovery
 memo of the above (Exh.PW34/1) was recorded by the
 police. The recovery memo was signed by Vishal Yadav
 and also dated by him. Vikas Yadav not only signed the
 recovery memo but endorsed receipt of the copy thereof. A
 copy of the same was given at the spot itself to the
 accompanying counsel for the accused Shri Satpal Singh
 Yadav who acknowledged receipt thereof. 39. As per the disclosure statement Vikas and Vishal Yadav then
 led the police party to Alwar, Rajasthan for recovery of the
 Tata Safari vehicle. Three places were searched as pointed
 out by the accused but the Tata Safari vehicle could not be
 traced. For want of time, the police returned to Ghaziabad
 and after medical check-up, they lodged Vikas and Vishal
 Yadav in custody. 40. As the Tata Safari vehicle and the mobile phone of the
 deceased remained to be recovered, the police made another
 application on 1st March, 2002 seeking police custody
 remand for the same. The CJM, Ghaziabad rejected this
 application. The police moved the Sessions Court which by
 an order dated 6th March, 2002 held that the power vested in
 the CJM court which alone had to consider the remand
 prayer. A fresh application was thereafter filed before the
 CJM, who, by an order dated 8th March, 2002, granted two Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 18 days police custody remand from 2:00 pm of 9th March,
 2002 to 2:00 pm of 11th March, 2002 for the purpose of
 recovery. 41. By then Vikas and Vishal Yadav had been taken to police
 station Dabra, District Gwalior in connection with the cases
 registered against them there. They effectively managed to
 delay handing over of their custody to Ghaziabad police.
 While in transit towards Punjab, the accused informed the
 police that the Tata Safari vehicle was at the taxi stand,
 Shamshan Ghat, Panipat. The accused persons were taken to
 this spot. However, nothing was found at this taxi stand.
 The accused then informed the police that the car was pearl
 green in colour and bore registration no. PB-07-H-0085 and
 that the same was at their factory at Karnal. The two
 accused thereafter led the police party to the premises of
 A.B. Coltex at Karnal, a burnt down factory which was lying
 closed. They got the Tata Safari bearing the above
 registration number recovered on 11th March, 2002 from
 these premises. The accused persons refused to sign the
 recovery memo of the Tata Safari vehicle (Exh.PW27/1). 42. The Investigating Officer was continuing with the
 investigation and during the course thereof, recorded
 statements amongst others of Ct. Inderjit Singh and Ct.
 Satender Pal Singh who were police personnel on patrol duty
 in police Gypsy Chetak-13 which was parked a little distance Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 19 away from the Diamond Palace Banquet Hall on the night of
 16th/17th February 2002. The prosecution led evidence to
 show that the three accused persons and Nitish Katara came
 away from the Diamond Palace Banquet Hall in the Tata
 Safari vehicle at around midnight on that night. Though in
 the witness box Ct. Inderjit Singh has attempted to separate
 Vishal and Vikas Yadav from the deceased by stating that
 while the two brothers were in a long car, Nitish Katara was
 seated in a Tata Safari with one other person. However, this
 part of his statement was disbelieved by the trial court. We
 shall discuss this aspect of the evidence in detail in a later
 part of the judgment. However even from Ct. Inderjit
 Singh's evidence, it was established even in his evidence
 that Vikas and Vishal Yadav, Nitish Katara and one more
 person were on the road coming from the Diamond Palace
 Banquet Hall around midnight on 16th February, 2002 and
 travelling in the same direction. In his statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C. Ct. Satendra Pal Singh stated that four
 persons including the three appellants and a fourth in a red
 kurta were in the Tata Safari which came from the said
 banquet hall. He identified the person in the red kurta as
 Nitish Katara from photos. 43. On 18th March, 2002, the Investigating Officer Anil Somania
 recorded the statement under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. of
 Ajay Kumar to the effect that at about 12:00/12:15 in the Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 20 night intervening 16th/17th February, 2002 he had spotted the
 Tata Safari near Hapur Chungi, Ghaziabad. The vehicle was
 being driven by Vikas Yadav, while Nitish Katara
 (deceased) was sitting on the passenger seat next to him;
 Vishal Yadav sat behind the driver while Sukhdev Yadav
 was sitting behind the deceased. 44. The recovered hammer was sent for a forensic examination. By the report dated 6th of March 2002, the serologist
 confirmed presence of human blood on the narrow end of the
 hammer. Trial of Vikas and Vishal Yadav 45. On completion of investigation, the chargesheet was filed
 against Vikas and Vishal Yadav on 6th April, 2002 in the
 court of CJM, Ghaziabad. Thereafter on 6th April, 2002 the
 case was committed to the court of the Sessions Judge,
 Ghaziabad. 46. It is necessary to note that Nilam Katara filed a writ petition
 in the Supreme Court of India being Crl.Writ No. 22/2002
 which was withdrawn on 26th February, 2002 by her in order
 to move the Delhi High Court for appropriate directions.
 Immediately, thereafter she filed Crl.Writ No. 247/2002 in
 this court seeking issuance of writ of habeas corpus and
 other directions to the police. Nilam Katara had impleaded
 Vikas and Vishal Yadav as respondents in this matter. Before the Writ court, the investigating agency had placed
 detailed status reports setting out the several steps taken
 during investigation including the searches, recording of
 statements; disclosures as well as recoveries; etc. During the
 course of hearing before us, parties were called upon to
 inform the court about all previous litigation as well as the
 orders passed by the courts. Unfortunately other than few
 orders placed before us, we have not had the benefit of
 reading the pleadings. 47. Vikas and Vishal Yadav had also approached higher courts
 including the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad.
 Despite our queries, we have not been informed about either
 the content of the petitions filed by them or the orders passed
 thereon. 48. In the meantime, Nilam Katara filed a petition being
 Transfer Petition No. 449/2002 before the Supreme Court of
 India praying for transfer of the trial against Vikas and
 Vishal Yadav to Delhi. The Supreme Court first passed an
 order dated 22nd May, 2002 staying the further proceedings
 before the trial court at Ghaziabad. By a subsequent order
 dated 22nd August, 2002, transferred the trial to the Sessions
 Court at Delhi. Accordingly the trial of Vikas and Vishal
 Yadav was conducted by the trial court in Patiala House,
 New Delhi. 49. By an order dated 23rd November, 2002, the following
 charge was framed against Vikas and Vishal Yadav for
 commission of offences under Section 302 / 201 / 34 of the
 IPC: Pahasu Road and caused evidence of murder
 disappear with th4e intention of screening Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 23 yourself and your co-accused from legal
 punishment and thereby you committed offence
 u/s 201 IPC and cognizance of the offence is
 taken by this court against both of you. And I hereby direct that you both be tried for
 the above-mentioned offences.‖ 50. Vikas and Vishal Yadav pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. During the trial, the prosecution examined 43 witnesses. On
 20thApril, 2007 and 26th April, 2007 the statements of Vishal
 Yadav and Vikas Yadav respectively were recorded under Section 313 of the Cr.P.C. The accused persons opted to
 lead defence and examined 23 witnesses in defence. 51. After detailed consideration of the entire evidence on record,
 the learned trial court passed a judgment dated 28th May,
 2008 whereby Vikas and Vishal Yadav were convicted for
 the offences with which they were charged. By a separate
 order dated 30th May, 2008, Vikas and Vishal Yadav were
 sentenced to undergo life imprisonment and to pay a fine of
 Rs. 1 lakh each under Section 302 / 34 IPC in default each to
 undergo simple imprisonment for 1 year. Both convicts were
 further sentenced to rigorous imprisonment for 10 years and
 fine of Rs. 50,000/- each under Section 364 / 34 IPC in
 default each to undergo simple imprisonment for 6 months.
 The convicts were further sentenced to rigorous
 imprisonment for 5 years and were to pay a fine of Rs. 10,000/- each under Section 201 / 34 IPC in default each to
 undergo simple imprisonment for 3 months. Sukhdev @ Pehalwan 's Trial 52. We now propose to consider the second trial which became
 necessary because of the abscondance of Sukhdev @
 Pehalwan who absconded after the incident during
 investigation and could be arrested only on 23rd February,
 2005. Sukhdev @ Pehalwan was arrested when he shot at
 police party from police station Patcherawa Village, District
 Kushi Nagar, U.P. at the night of 11th February, 2005 at 1:30
 am. Upon his search, in the right hand one country made
 pistol .315 bore was found and from the pocket of his pant
 two live cartridges were recovered. One used cartridge from
 the chamber of the country-made pistol and one used
 cartridge lying on the spot was also found. Sukhdev @
 Pehalwan was arrested by the police station Dewaria and
 FIR No.56/2005 was registered under Section 307 / 7 Criminal Law (Amendment) Act. Another FIR bearing
 no.57/2005 was registered against him under the Arms Act . 53. The prosecution has examined PW-21 retired S.I. Umakant
 Pandey; PW-20 S.I. Ajit Kumar Misra about the arrests and
 the case in District Kushi Nagar against Sukhdev Yadav. 54. Information about the arrests was given to the Ghaziabad
 police by a fax message (Exh.PW22/A2 in Sukhdev's trial) Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 25 as well as telephone on 11th February, 2005. He was
 produced before the court of Chief Judicial Magistrate,
 Ghaziabad. Further investigation was completed by the
 police against Sukhdev @ Pehalwan and a supplementary
 chargesheet against him was filed in the court where the trial
 of Vikas and Vishal Yadav was pending. 55. Vikas and Vishal were already facing trial by SC Case No.
 78/2002. By the 23rd of February 2005. By now 37
 prosecution witnesses stood examined in Vikas and Vishal
 Yadav's case. 56. The case against Sukhdev @ Pehalwan was registered as SC
 No.117A/2006 and was placed before the same Trial Judge
 trying SC Case No.78/2002 against Vikas and Vishal Yadav.
 After pronouncement in SC No.78/2002, this case was
 transferred by the District and Sessions Judge and registered
 as SC Case No.76/08. 57. After hearing the appellant Sukhdev @ Pehalwan on charge,
 by an order dated 13th April, 2006, it was directed that
 charges under Section 364/302/201 read with Section 34 of
 the IPC be framed against him. Accordingly, the following
 charge was framed against Sukhdev @ Pehalwan- ―I, Ravinder Kaur, Additional Sessions Judge,
 New Delhi do hereby charge you Sukhdev @
 Pehlwan as follows: 58. Sukhdev @ Pehalwan assailed the order directing framing
 of the charge as well as charge by way of
 Crl.Rev.No.275/2006 which was dismissed by an order
 passed on 26th April, 2007. 59. It is noteworthy that in the meantime, the two trials were
 being conducted on the same date. The record reflects that
 the common order-sheet was recorded on each date which
 included the presence of all the appellants as well as their
 respective counsels. The case of State v. Vikas Yadav &
 Ors. was treated as the main case. 60. Recording of evidence in Vikas and Vishal Yadav's matter
 was completed and finally the judgment came to be passed
 on the 28th of May 2008, Sukhdev @ Pehalwan's case was
 transferred for completion of trial by an order dated 25 th
 July, 2008 of the District Judge. The remaining prosecution
 evidence and the defence evidence was completed and
 finally judgment was rendered on 6th July, 2011. 61. During this trial, the prosecution examined 23 witnesses
 most of whom had been examined during the trial of Vikas
 and Vishal Yadav. Some of the witnesses examined during
 the previous trial were either not relevant for this trial given
 the allegations against Sukhdev Yadav or were given up as
 having been won over. On 6th July, 2007 the Special Public
 Prosecutor gave up Bharti Yadav and Bharat Diwakar as Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 28 prosecution witnesses. Thereafter on 10th July, 2007 the
 prosecution similarly gave up Gaurav Gupta as a prosecution
 witness. The Special Public Prosecutor adopted the
 statements of Dr.Anil Singhal and Ms. Nilam Katara as well
 as a few other witnesses which had been made in Vikas and
 Vishal Yadav 's case as their statements in Sukhdev @
 Pehalwan 's trial with the consent of the accused who was
 given full opportunity to cross-examine them. 62. The incriminating circumstances which had come in the
 evidence against Sukhdev @ Pehalwan were put to him in
 his statement under Section 313 of the Cr.P.C. in which he
 set up a case of an absolute denial about involvement in the
 crime. Sukhdev @ Pehalwan denied his presence at Shivani
 Gaur's wedding on the night of 16th February, 2002 as well
 as his presence in the Tata Safari vehicle in which the
 deceased was alleged to have been abducted and killed. 63. Sukhdev @ Pehalwan set up a defence that the police had
 wanted him to become a witness against Vikas and Vishal
 Yadav, and, upon his refusal, he was falsely implicated in
 the case. In support of his defence that he was at his native
 village on the fateful night and also thereafter, one Keshwar
 Singh, was examined as DW-1 who testified that from 2002
 till 2005 Sukhdev @ Pehalwan was living in his native
 village Tanuwar, District Khushinagar, UP and that he was
 picked up from his house in the year 2005. Sukhdev @ Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 29 Pehalwan also examined as DW-2 the Nodal Officer of the
 Bharti Airtel Ltd. 64. After a close examination of the entire evidence brought by
 the prosecution, the statement of the appellant under Section
 313 of the Cr.P.C. as well as the defence evidence, the
 learned Trial Judge has passed a considered judgment dated
 6th July, 2011 finding Sukhdev Yadav @ Pehalwan guilty of
 commission of the offence under Section 364/302/201 read
 with Section 34 of the IPC. The learned Trial Judge
 considered the order on sentence separately and by an order
 dated 10th July, 2011 awarded the sentence of imprisonment
 of different periods and fines which shall be considered
 separately. Present appeals 65. As noted above, Vishal Yadav has challenged his conviction
 by the judgment dated 28th of May 2002 by Crl. Appeal
 No.741/2008 while Vikas Yadav has filed Crl. Appeal
 No.910/2008. Sukhdev Yadav has assailed the judgment
 dated 6th July, 2011 by way of Crl.Appeal No. 145/2012.
 The challenge rests primarily on the ground that there was
 no evidence at all to support the guilt of the appellant; that
 the prosecution had failed to establish any motive against the
 appellants; that there was no credible evidence of the
 appellants being in the company of the deceased either at the Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 30 wedding, outside the venue or anywhere else in the Tata
 Safari vehicle. It has been contended that the evidence led
 by the prosecution was shaky and not credible and that the
 appellant has been convicted on sheer conjectures and
 surmises. 66. During the course of the submissions by counsels for the
 three appellants, we have noted that the witnesses and entire
 evidence led by the prosecution in Sukhdev trial is part of
 Vikas and Vishal Yadav's trial. We also find that the
 submissions made on behalf of the three appellants over lap
 and their examination requires a reading of the same oral and
 documentary evidence as well as judicial precedents. We
 have therefore, heard the three appeals together and propose
 to decide these three appeals (Crl.Appeal No 741/2008,
 910/2008, Crl.Appeal No 145/2012,) by a common
 judgment, of course, specifically adverting to separate
 grounds pressed before us on behalf of any of the appellants
 and also noting the manner in the evidence on a particular
 fact or circumstances pointed out by the parties. 67. The trial court record showed that the complainant Nilam
 Katara was represented throughout the two trials. She has
 been throughout appearing in the appeals as well. No
 objection was raised by the appellants to her presence or
 representation on her behalf before us. We also find it in the
 interest of justice to permit her to be represented in the court Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 31 and assist us in the hearing of the present appeals. We have
 consequently heard the submissions on behalf of the
 complainant as well. 68. For the purposes of convenience, we propose to consider the
 above challenge made by Sukhdev @ Pehalwan to his
 conviction under the common heads with the submissions
 made on behalf of the Vikas and Vishal Yadav inasmuch as
 the prosecution is relying on the evidence of the same
 witnesses in both trials. 69. Inasmuch as many of the witnesses examined during the trial
 of Vikas and Vishal Yadav, were also examined during
 Sukhdev @ Pehalwan's trial, so as to give a complete
 overview, we are hereunder extracting the particulars of the
 prosecution witnesses in the two trials hereunder:- 70. In their defence, Vikas and Vishal Yadav examined 26
 witnesses 10 of whom were advocates. So far as Sukhdev
 Yadav was concerned, he examined two witnesses in his
 defence. We shall discuss the testimonies of these defence
 witnesses as we deal with the rival contentions hereafter. 71. In the first trial, out of 43 witnesses, all except for one
 material public witness either had to be declared hostile or
 were won over or influenced. And these included police
 personnel. Witnesses prevaricated on the same issues.
 Material embellishments and improvements were also on the
 same point. Interestingly witnesses resiled from their
 previous statements under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C.
 recorded by the Investigating Officer on identical facts -
 would this be called fate? Or is it too much of a coincidence? 72. The arrest of two of the appellants was clearly stage
 managed with a definite purpose. The third accused who
 was declared a proclaimed offender as he could not be traced
 at his known addresses, surfaced when the examination of 37
 prosecution witnesses in the trial of the other two co-accused Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 36 had already been completed. He made a dramatic entry and
 could be arrested after firing at a police patrol party! 73. Despite the investigation being conducted under judicial
 scrutiny of not only the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Ghaziabad
 but also this court in Crl.Writ No.247/2002, before us police
 action has been subjected to protracted objections. The trials
 bring to fore the manner in which well-placed accused
 persons are able to put pressure on the public witnesses and
 public prosecutors in the very capital of India, in a trial court
 room not even half a kilometer from this court, and barely a
 kilometer from the Supreme Court, as the discussion
 hereafter will amply demonstrate. 74. Mr. Ram Jethmalani, learned senior counsel appearing in
 Crl.Appeal No.741/2008, Vishal Yadav v. State has urged
 with all the vehemence at his command that the conviction
 cannot be sustained because the proceedings which ended in
 the verdict, cannot be called a trial in accordance with the
 procedure prescribed by law within the meaning of Article
 21 of the Constitution of India. It is contended that the
 procedure prescribed in the Code of Criminal Procedure is
 the procedure prescribed by law within the meaning of
 expression in the Constitution. The contention is that the
 case does not disclose just an erroneous decision by the
 learned Trial Judge on one or more debatable point of views
 but is a wholesale violation of the Code of Criminal Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 37 Procedure ( Cr.P.C .), the Evidence Act and the elementary
 principle of criminal justice. Mr. Jethmalani would urge that
 the inevitable consequence of this submission being made
 good is acquittal or retrial and that the appellant Vishal
 Yadav is entitled to the first, failing which to the second.
 These overreaching submissions embrace the arguments
 made on behalf of the other appellants as well. 75. After giving our considered thought to the submissions and
 having closely examined the record, we find that some very
 pertinent questions arise from the record of trial court for
 consideration in the matter. Therefore before examining the
 submissions in the context of the proceedings and evidence
 recorded during the trial, we propose to articulate some of
 these questions as they are of prime importance. 76. Whether the presumption in accordance with law that a
 person is presumed innocent till proven guilty beyond
 reasonable doubt as well as the constitutional right to silence
 of an accused person entitles an accused person to actively
 engage in obstructing trial; subverting due process;
 suborning witnesses and leading false evidence? The
 question which has to be answered is as to whether an
 accused person can orchestrate non-existent or technical
 errors during trial and then assert a mistrial entitling him to
 an acquittal or a retrial? 77. Protracted arguments have been made and piecemeal
 objections pressed to specific facts in prosecution evidence
 before us even though there is not whit of cross examination
 thereon during the two trials nor were such objections urged
 before the trial judges. Is this legally permissible? 78. The question which bodes an immediate answer is can
 defence be permitted to first intimidate witnesses during
 trial, suggest answers to not only defence but prosecution
 witnesses as well, to compel contradictions and omissions on
 the trial court record, then to urge that there were
 inconsistencies in the evidence led by the prosecution?
 What is the effect on the outcome of the trial of the conduct
 of an accused person in setting up false pleas in applications
 as well as in leading false defence evidence? 79. Is it permissible for accused persons to pressurize
 prosecutors in the case and then urge conflict and prejudice? 80. Is the precept that ―justice must not only be done but seem to
 be done‖ applicable only one way, that is towards the
 accused person? Is there no duty or responsibility of and
 upon the defence to ensure that the trial is fair to society,
 victim, complainant and, most importantly, that it is not
 impeded? Is it not high time that the right of a fair trial be
 enforced in favour of the victim as well as the witnesses in Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 39 the trial and their secondary traumatization by aggressive
 and intimidating defence posturing prevented? 81. Can accused persons exercise control over appearance of
 witnesses in court, successfully ensure a witness' avoidance
 from testifying for over three and a half years, be permitted
 to urge prejudice by delays? Do such persons deserve
 indulgence and preferential hearings? 82. Can an accused person abscond, not for days, weeks or a few
 months, but for over three years and then be permitted to set
 up a plea or be believed that he was innocently pursuing
 normal pursuits at his native village, oblivious of the
 coercive process against him including warrants of
 attachment executed at his native village, announcements of
 rewards for information about him; public notices in print
 and electronic media? 83. Are accused persons not answerable for such pressure
 created and demands made on the already stretched police
 force as well as the criminal justice system? Who is to be
 held liable for the colossal wastage of public and judicial
 resources provided at public cost because the investigators
 were misled and protraction of the trial? What is the impact of each, or, all of the above? These are
 some of the issues which also we have attempted to answer. 84. The instant case also manifests the restrictions within which
 many women in this country grow and survive in the Indian
 society. It epitomizes the limitations in choosing a life
 partner, even in the case of an educated, articulate young
 lady from a well-placed family in the National Capital
 Region. Jurisdiction of the appellate court dealing with a criminal
appeal 85. The right to prefer appeal against conviction by the trial
 court and the power of the appellate court are governed by Section 386 of the Cr.P.C. Exercising appellate jurisdiction,
 the High Court is fully empowered to review the entire
 evidence and all relevant circumstances upon which the
 impugned order is founded and to arrive at its own
 conclusion about the guilt or innocence or the accused
 bearing in mind that the initial presumption of innocence as
 well as the burden on the prosecution to prove its case
 beyond reasonable doubt always exists. It has been held that
 the appellate court's jurisdiction is co-extensive with that of
 the trial court in the manner of assessment, appraisal and
 appreciation of evidence and also to determine the disputed
 issues. (Ref. (1974) 4 SCC 603, Khem Karan & Ors. v.
 State of U.P.; (1999) 6 SCC 29, Rajan v. State of M.P.; and
 (1975) 3 SCC 16, Chandrakant Ganpat Soritkar v. State of
 Maharashtra). 86. It is trite that just as a trial court, the appellate court is duty
 bound to test the evidence extrinsically as well as
 intrinsically and to consider all circumstances thoroughly.
 The appellate court is permitted to substitute the finding of
 the trial court by its own only if it arrives at a different
 conclusion on re-assessment of the evidence if the
 conclusion of the trial court is perverse or based on no
 evidence. (Ref. AIR 1995 SC 2265 Lal Mandi v. State of
 Bengal) 87. We are bound by the above principles in consideration of the
 present matter. Evaluation of evidence- proof beyond reasonable doubt 88. Before embarking on the long journey of examination and
 adjudication compelled by the sheer volumes of the records
 as well as written submissions placed before us, the lengthy
 oral arguments on every aspect of the trials as well as law on
 the issues, we would remind ourselves of the principles on
 which the evaluation of evidence has to be effected. The
 doctrine of presumption of innocence casts the burden on the
 prosecution to prove its case against the accused persons
 beyond reasonable doubt. It is trite that doubt to the guilt of
 the accused should be substantial and not flimsy or fanciful.
 This is best stated in the words of the Supreme Court in Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 42 ( 1988) 4 SCC 302, State of U.P. v. Krishna Gopal wherein
 the court had observed as follows: 89. While examining the degree of proof in criminal cases, in
 (1947) 2 All E.R. 372, Miller v. Ministers of Pensions stated - ―that degree is well settled. It need not reach certainty, but
 it must carry a high degree of probability. Proof beyond
 reasonable doubt does not mean proof beyond the shadow of Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 44 a doubt. The law would fail to protect the community if it
 admitted fanciful possibilities to deflect the course of justice.
 If the evidence is so strong against a man as to leave only a
 remote possibility in his favour which can be dismissed with
 the sentence ―of course, it is possible but not in the least
 probable,‖ the case is proved beyond reasonable doubt...‖
 All that the principle enjoins is a reasonable skepticism, not
 an obdurate persistence in disbelief. It does not demand
 from the judge a resolute and impenetrable incredulity. He
 is never required to close his mind to the truth. 90. In ( 1990) 1 SCC 445, Gurbachan Singh v. Satpal Singh , the
 Supreme Court quoted observations of Lord Denning in
 Bater v. Bater in (1950) 2 All.E.R. 458 that the standard
 adopted by the prudent man would vary from case to case,
 circumstances to circumstances. Exaggerated devotion to the
 rule of benefit of doubt must not nurture fanciful doubts or
 lingering suspicions or thereby destroy social defence.
 Justice cannot be made sterile on the plea that it is better to
 let hundred guilty escape than punish an innocent. Letting
 guilty escape is not doing justice, according to law. 91. When would it be held that prosecution had failed to
 establish its case beyond reasonable doubts entitling accused
 to benefit of doubt? In (1990) 3 SCC 190, Vijayee Singh v. State of U.P., the
 court quoted Lord Denning and Lord Du Paraq, J. on the
 concept of the benefit of reasonable doubt in para which is
 reproduced below: 92. The expressions ―proof beyond reasonable doubt‖ and
 entitlement of an accused person to ―benefit of doubt‖ are
 regularly used by us. But what are their contours? A very
 valuable discussion on this issue is to be found in the
 judgment authored by O. Chinnappa Reddy, J. in (1979) 1
 SCC 355 K. Gopal Reddy v. State of AP wherein reiterating
 the fundamental principle of criminal jurisprudence that the
 accused is entitled to the benefit of any reasonable doubt, the
 court placing reliance on the afore noticed enunciation by
 Lord Denning in Miller (Supra), elaborated the principles
 thus: 93. The Supreme Court has stated that the efforts by the criminal
 court should not be to prowl for imaginative doubts. Unless
 the doubt is of a reasonable dimension which a judicially
 conscientious mind entertains with some objectivity, no
 benefit can be claimed by the accused. [( 1999) 3 SCC 507,
 State of Rajasthan v. Teja Ram .] 94. The caution articulated by the Supreme Court in ( 2002) 5
 SCC 234, Devender Pal Singh v. State of NCT of Delhi also
 emphasises that perfection in a case may not be natural when
 it stated thus: ―A Judge does not preside over a criminal
 trial merely to see that no innocent man is
 punished. A Judge also presides to see
 that a guilty man does not escape. ... Both are public duties....‖ (Per Viscount
 Simon in Stirland v. Director of Public
 Prosecution [1944 AC 315 : (1944) 2 All
 ER 13 : 113 LJKB 394] quoted in State
 of U.P. v. Anil Singh [1988 Supp SCC
 686 : 1989 SCC (Cri) 48 : AIR 1988 SC
 1998] , SCC p. 692, para 17.)‖ Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 49 95. In (1978) 4 SCC 161, Inder Singh & Anr. v. State (Delhi
 Administration) V.R. Krishna Iyer, J. wrote that ―credibility
 of testimony, oral and circumstantial, depends considerably
 on a judicial evaluation of the totality, not isolated
 scrutiny... Proof beyond reasonable doubt is a guideline, not
 a fetish and guilty man cannot get away with it because truth
 suffers some infirmity when projected through human
 processes. Judicial quest for perfect proof often accounts for
 police presentation of fool-proof concoction. Why fake up?
 Because the court asks for manufacture to make truth look?
 No, we must be realistic.‖ 96. It is trite that accused persons are entitled to get benefit of
 doubt only when the prosecution fails to prove its case. The
 proof beyond reasonable doubt is a guiding factor and not an
 absolute rule. The evidence in the present case has to be
 scrutinized on these principles. Given the magnitude of the challenge, we have divided our
 consideration under the following headings: 30 Nilam Katara and PW-39 Nitin Katara are
 admissible under section 32(1) of the Indian
 Evidence Act (viii) Testimony of Nilam Katara - whether unreliable? What constitutes „contradictions‟, „improvements‟
 and „significant omissions‟? (ix) Conduct of Bharti Yadav on the 17th of February,
 2002 and thereafter; her reactions, and utterances
 to Nilam Katara and Nitin Katara; conversations
 with Bharat Diwakar after Nitish Katara had been
 abducted and prior to anyone learning that he had
 been murdered (x) Regarding involvement of Vikas and Vishal Yadav - Spontaneous utterances by Bharti Yadav during the
 continuation of the transaction are admissible
 under Section 6 of the Evidence Act Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 54 (xi) E-mails sent by Bharti Yadav to Nitin Katara after
 the 17th of February, 2002 (xii) Bharti Yadav‟s statement under Section 161 of the
 Cr.P.C. 97. So far as motive for commission of the offence is concerned,
 the prosecution placed a definite case before the trial courts.
 The prosecution led evidence to the effect that Bharti Yadav
 (daughter of Shri D.P. Yadav) was romantically involved
 with the deceased Nitish Katara so much so that they were
 looking towards establishing permanency in their
 relationship. 98. Vikas Yadav son of Shri D.P. Yadav is Bharti's brother. Vishal Yadav is the son of Bharti's ‗bua' (father's sister) and
 therefore a first cousin. As socially accepted, a cousin
 brother especially one who is as close as Vishal was to Vikas
 Yadav, is commonly referred to and treated as a brother. 99. The involvement between Bharti and Nitish Katara was not
 acceptable to the family members of Bharti Yadav. Her
 brothers Vishal and Vikas Yadav were averse to the same. 100. Sukhdev @ Pehalwan was an employee of the family of
 Shri D.P. Yadav at their liquor vend in Bulandshahr and
 used to roam around with Vikas Yadav, indicating close
 association certainly more than that a mere employee sharing
 of motive is to be inferred from these incriminating Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 55 circumstances. Therefore, Vikas Yadav, Vishal Yadav and
 Sukhdev @ Pehalwan abducted Nitish Katara and murdered
 him in a pre-meditated manner driven by this specific
 motive. (i) Submissions of the appellants 101. The appellants took the defence that they did not even know
 Nitish Katara and completely denied existence of any
 relationship between Bharti and Nitish Katara. It was the
 defence plea that even if such relationship existed, they were
 completely ignorant about the same. The brothers, Vikas
 and Vishal Yadav took the position that they could not have
 opposed the relationship if they had no knowledge about it. 102. Mr. U.R. Lalit, learned senior counsel appearing for Vikas
 Yadav has contended that there is no evidence at all to
 suggest that the appellants nurtured any motive which could
 lead them to the commission of the crime. As per learned
 senior counsel, the prosecution had failed to lead any
 evidence that the accused persons knew the deceased at all.
 The prosecution had also failed to lead any evidence of the
 relationship between Nitish Katara and Bharti Yadav or their
 marriage being discussed in the family or that any of the
 accused persons had knowledge of any love affair between
 Bharti Yadav and Nitish Katara. It is contended that the
 learned trial judge has erred in placing reliance on the letter Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 56 Exh. PW-30/C-1 and Exh. PW-30/C-4 to hold that the same
 established any motive on the part of accused persons. Mr.
 Lalit would submit that the letter at best shows that Bharti
 Yadav was in love with Nitish Katara. The submission is
 that the words ―sab samjhate hain darate hain‖ in the letter
 does not mean that anybody was threatening Bharti Yadav.
 Learned senior counsel would contend that there is no
 evidence at all that the family of Bharti Yadav was opposed
 to their relationship or alliance. It is submitted that the
 maintenance of the bank account by Bharti Yadav at the
 address of Nitish Katara is of no consequence. There is no
 evidence to show that the accused persons had any
 knowledge about it. It only shows that Bharti kept the same
 secret for some good reason of her own. Learned senior
 counsel would question that if Vikas Yadav did not even
 have knowledge of the affair between Bharti and Nitish
 Katara, where is the question of his opposition to the same? 103. Learned senior counsel has drawn our attention to the
 observations of the trial court in para CXXVIII of the
 judgment where the judge has noticed that Vikas Yadav
 though present in the lockup, chose not to appear in the court
 on the dates when Bharti Yadav had testified. It is also
 contended that the entire case of motive is based on
 inadmissible hearsay statements attributed to the deceased by Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 57 his mother PW-30 Nilam Katara and brother PW-39 Nitin
 Katara. 104. Mr. Ram Jethmalani, learned senior counsel appearing for
 Vishal Yadav has also urged that the entire evidence led by
 the prosecution on motive is inadmissible in law. It is urged
 that even though the trial court refers to the testimony of
 nine witnesses i.e. PW-30, 38, 39, 42, 21, 22, 34, 35 and to
 some extent PW-25, only the testimony of two witnesses on
 this aspect i.e. PW-30 Nilam Katara and PW-39 Nitin Katara
 requires to be seen. 105. Appearing for Vishal Yadav, Mr. Ram Jethmalani, learned
 senior counsel repeatedly submitted that appellant Vishal
 Yadav also does not challenge that there was deep intimacy
 between Bharti Singh and Nitish Katara which was in the
 nature of a healthy love affair with the full potential of
 flowering into a marriage. He submits that this appellant
 only challenges the prosecution case that Vishal Yadav had
 knowledge of the marriage proposal or that he was opposed
 to such an alliance. 106. Mr. Jethmalani, learned senior counsel has submitted at the
 bar that Vishal Yadav also does not dispute the following
 established facts:- 107. Mr. Jethmalani contends that Vishal Yadav is not the son of
 Shri D.P. Yadav; he belongs to a different family and that
 there is no evidence on record to show that Vishal Yadav
 nursed any animosity to an alliance between the deceased
 and Bharti Yadav. The contention is that the evidence led by
 the prosecution is grossly insufficient to prove disapproval
 on his part to any marriage in furtherance of the intimacy or
 of any motive nurtured by Vishal Yadav leading to
 committal of the offence of murder. 108. Learned senior counsel submits that disapproval of the
 marriage leading to murder must be founded on sound overt
 evidence which is not there in this case; that the prosecution
 has led no evidence of any person opposing the alliance
 between Bharti and Nitish Katara. The submission is that
 there is also no evidence that any of her parents, siblings or
 relatives had asked Bharti not to marry Nitish Katara. It has
 been urged that the motive to kill a person must be found on
 the individual acts of the accused persons and that in the case Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 59 at hand there was no direct or indirect communication with
 even the deceased to stop seeing Bharti Yadav. 109. Mr. Ram Jethmalani has pressed that the evidence of PW-30
 Nilam Katara to the extent that Nitish had made the
 statement to her that Bharti Yadav's brothers were opposed
 to their relationship was admissible as a fact by application
 of Section 60 of the Indian Evidence Act, but so far as the
 truthfulness of the statement is concerned, the statement was
 double hearsay as PW-30 had merely testified that Nitish
 repeated to her what Bharti Yadav had told him. It is
 contended that a surviving witness Bharti was available and
 examined by the prosecution who has not supported the
 prosecution. Therefore, the contents of the statement
 attributed to Nitish are inadmissible. Learned senior counsel
 has also drawn our attention to question nos. 11, 12 and 13
 put to Vishal Yadav under Section 313 of the Cr.P.C. in this
 regard. 110. It is urged by Mr. Jethmalani that PW-30 never told the
 police that Nitish Katara had made the statement which she
 has attributed to him in court. It is submitted that even in the
 complaint lodged on 17th February, 2002, PW-30 Nilam
 Katara has merely used the word ―possibly‖ (‗sambhavtah')
 supporting the defence that Vishal Yadav had no opposition
 to the friendship of Nitish and Bharti. Learned senior
 counsel has contended that the case of the prosecution is that Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 60 only Vishal Yadav took Nitish out whereas in Exh.PW 1/A,
 PW-30 had stated that both Vikas and Vishal Yadav took
 him out. 111. Mr.Ravinder Kumar Kapoor, Advocate for Sukhdev Yadav
 in Criminal Appeal No. 145/2012 contends that so far as
 Sukhdev Yadav is concerned, it is a case of no evidence.
 Mr. Kapoor, learned counsel appearing for Sukhdev @
 Pehalwan has contended that Sukhdev was introduced at a
 later stage and was not named in the complaint made by
 Smt. Nilam Katara on which FIR No 192/2002 was
 registered. Therefore, the name of Sukhdev @ Pehalwan
 surfaced at a late stage in the investigation. Learned counsel
 has urged that Sukhdev @ Pehalwan's name surfaces for the
 first time in the disclosure attributed to Vikas and Vishal
 Yadav on 25th of February, 2002; Bharti Yadav's statement
 under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. recorded on 2nd of March,
 2002 and the statement under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. of
 Sh. Ajay Kumar recorded on 18th of March, 2002. Learned
 counsel submits that Sukhdev @ Pehalwan has been
 implicated in the case even though there was no evidence of
 his being present at the Banquet Hall; or his being in the
 Tata Safari vehicle which is alleged to have been used in the
 commission of the offences and that his involvement is
 completely fabricated subsequently. 112. Mr. Kapoor has submitted that the prosecution has not made
 out any motive for commission of the offence on the part of
 Sukhdev Yadav. 113. In the present case, as an alternative to the above submission
 that there is no evidence of motive, learned senior counsels
 would contend that even if it could be held that motive stood
 established, it is urged that there is no admissible evidence of
 the appellants having motive to commit the offences under Sections 364 , 302 and 201 of the IPC and the evidence led
 by the prosecution against the appellants deserves to be
 closely scrutinized. 114. Given the extensive submissions made by all counsels in the
 matter on the issue of motive, it is first necessary to consider
 its relevance so far as establishing the guilt of an accused
 person is concerned. (ii) Judicial precedents 115. We may firstly examine the parameters laid down by judicial
 precedents of the importance of motive in a criminal offence;
 the contours within which it must be examined and the
 nature of the evidence required to establish it. 116. In ( 2000) 4 SCC 515 State of U.P. v. Babu Ram , the
 Supreme Court has stated that ―motive is a relevant factor in
 all criminal cases whether based on the testimony of eye Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 62 witnesses or circumstantial evidence. The question in this
 regard is whether the prosecution must fail because it failed
 to prove the motive or whether inability to prove the motive
 would weaken the prosecution to any perceptible limit.‖ 117. Mr. Dayan Krishnan, learned Additional Standing Counsel
 for the State has drawn our attention in this regard to the
 pronouncement of the Supreme Court reported at (2011) 3
 SCC 654 Sheo Shankar Singh v. State of Jharkhand and
 Anr. In para 15 of this pronouncement, the Supreme Court
 has noticed the difference in the significance of proof of
 motive where prosecution is based upon circumstantial
 evidence and where it relies upon the testimony of eye
 witnesses in following terms: (Emphasis supplied) 118. Mr. Dayan Krishnan, learned additional standing counsel for
 the State and Mr. P.K. Dey appearing for the complainant
 have also placed reliance on the pronouncement of the
 Supreme Court in (2010) 9 SCC 747, Santosh Kumar Singh
 v. State through CBI with regard to the importance of the
 existence of motive in a case resting on circumstantial
 evidence. In Santosh Kumar Singh (supra), the Supreme
 Court had agreed with the petitioner's contention that though Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 64 motive alone cannot form the basis of the conviction "but in
 the light of other circumstances, the motive goes a long way
 in forging the links in the chain‖. 119. On the aspect of importance of motive in a case of
 circumstantial evidence, the judgment of the Supreme Court
 in ( 2011) 12 SCC 554, Amitava Banerjee v. State of West
 Bengal also sheds valuable light. The legal position as laid
 down by Wills in his book ‗Circumstantial Evidence' and in
 prior judicial pronouncements was relied upon by the court
 which may usefully be extracted and reads as follows: See Dhananjoy Chatterjee v. State of W.B. (1994) 2 SCC 220, Surinder Pal Jain v. Delhi
 Admn. 1993 Supp. (3) SCC 91, Tarseem Kumar
 v. Delhi Admn. 1994 Supp. (3) SCC 367,
 Jagdish v. State of M.P. ( 2009) 9 SCC 495,
 Mulakh Raj and Ors. v. Satish Kumar and Ors. (1992) 3 SCC 43." (Emphasis supplied) Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 66 120. Reliance has also been placed on 2011 (5) AD (Delhi) 351,
 Anil Kumar v. State wherein it was held as follows: - 121. Before us, it has been argued by Mr. Ram Jethmalani, ld. senior counsel that motive does not supply a link in the chain
 of incriminating circumstances, but it only makes assurance
 doubly sure. In this regard, reference was made to the
 pronouncement of the Supreme Court on the rule of motive
 in a case of circumstantial evidence in the judgment reported
 at (1972) 4 SCC 142 Udaipal Singh v. State of U.P. wherein
 it has been held as follows:- 122. Mr. Ram Jethmalani, learned senior counsel has urged at
 some length that it is not sufficient merely to establish
 existence of a motive. The prosecution has to establish that
 the motive was of such magnitude as to incite or motivate a
 person to commit murder. The following observations of the
 Supreme Court in ( 1999) 4 SCC 370 State of H.P. v. Jeet
 Singh are material and a complete answer to this untenable
 proposition advanced on behalf of the appellant: 123. Mr. P.K. Dey, ld. counsel for the complainant has placed
 reliance on the pronouncement of the Supreme Court
 reported at (1998) 9 SCC 238 Nathuni Yadav v. State of
 Bihar wherein the court held thus: Motive is the emotion which impels a man to
 do a particular act. Such impelling cause
 need not necessarily be proportionally grave
 to do grave crimes. Many a murders have
 been committed without any known or
 prominent motive. It is quite possible that the
 aforesaid impelling factor would remain
 undiscoverable. Lord Chief Justice Champbell
 struck a note of caution in R. v. Palmer
 (Shorthand Report at p. 308 CCC May 1856; thus: 124. In AIR 2005 SC 418, Ranganayaki v. State by Inspector of
 Police, relied upon by Mr. Jethmalani, the Supreme Court
 reiterated the principle laid down in Nathuni Yadav (supra). 125. It thus stands considered, observed and held in authoritative
 judicial precedents that the extent or death of feeling
 magnitude; weakness or strength; reasonableness or
 unreasonable of motive does not have a bearing on the
 existence or impact of the mental condition of the person
 accused for commission of the offence. The submission of
 ld. senior counsel therefore that the motive propounded by
 the prosecution was insufficient to impel or instigate the
 appellants has no factual or legal basis. 126. We may also examine the principles which would apply
 when the prosecution failed to adequately establish motive
 or when evidence of motive for the offence is absent. It is
 urged before us by the State that even if motive is not
 established in cases based on circumstantial evidence, Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 71 conviction is possible. In this regard reference has been
 made to the pronouncement of the Supreme Court in ( 1992)
 3 SCC 43, Mulakh Raj v. Satish Kumar . It was argued
 before the Supreme Court that the case was based on
 circumstantial evidence and motive being absent, the
 prosecution had failed to establish the important link in the
 chain of circumstances to connect the accused. This
 contention was rejected by the Supreme Court observing as
 follows: In this view of the matter, absence of motive was held to be
 immaterial. In so holding the court placed reliance on the
 earlier pronouncement reported at (2002) 7 SCC 157: 2002 SCC Crl.1637, Mani Kumar Thapa v. State of Sikkim . No
 absolute proposition of law that if motive is absent, a person
 cannot be convicted has been laid down herein. 129. We shall consider the submission as we examine the grounds
 on which the appellants challenge the prosecution evidence. 130. On this issue, in AIR 1955 SC 807, Atley v. State of Uttar
 Pradesh, in para 6, the Supreme Court had held as follows: - 131. The above observations of the Supreme Court thus do not
 militate against the well settled principles on the importance
 of motive in a case of circumstantial evidence. The Supreme
 Court has declared the legal position that while proof of
 motive lends support to the finding of the guilt, its absence
 does not establish innocence. Absent evidence of motive, the
 prosecution evidence has to be strictly examined. 132. It therefore needs no further elaboration that motive is an
 important link in a case resting on circumstantial evidence. It
 is well near impossible for the prosecution to lead evidence
 on the full extent of the mental condition of the accused
 persons towards the deceased. Law does not require the
 prosecution to establish such brimming ill will as would
 motivate a person to kill before the existence of motive
 could be accepted as a circumstance in the chain of
 circumstantial evidence to establish a charge of murder.
 Failure to lead evidence that the person accused was
 nurturing such vengeance or evidence as would naturally Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 74 lead him to commit the offence would not by itself defeat the
 prosecution. (iii) Prosecution evidence on motive 133. Let us now examine the prosecution submissions to establish
 motive. It is urged by Mr. Dayan Krishnan, ld. Additional
 Standing Counsel for the State that the following facts and
 circumstances stand proved on record before this court: - 134. Mr. Krishnan submits that the above facts and circumstances
 stand established by credible evidence and prove that the
 appellants had and shared the motive to commit the offence.
 Mr. P.K. Dey, learned counsel for the complainant Nilam
 Katara has supported the State in the submission. 135. In the trial of Vikas and Vishal Yadav, the prosecution has
 examined six witnesses to establish motive which included
 PW-18 Hemant Narainan - Sr. Executive Jet Airways; PW-
 30 Nilam Katara; PW-38 Bharti Singh; PW-39 Nitin Katara;
 PW-40 Shivendera Tiwari - Asstt. Manager HDFC Bank;
 and PW-42 Bhawna Yadav 136. We may now examine the evidence to establish the above
 facts and circumstances listed by Mr. Krishnan noticed
 hereinabove in seriatim. (i) Vikas Yadav is the brother of Bharti Yadav and Bhawna
 Yadav and they are the children of Shri D.P. Yadav.
 Vishal Yadav is their first cousin (son of Shri D.P. Yadav‟s
 sister „Bua‟) Sukhdev @ Pehalwan was employed at their
 liquor business in Bulandshahr at the relevant fact.
 These facts in evidence are not disputed by the appellants. (ii)&(iii)Nitish Katara, Bharti, PW 26 Gaurav Gupta, PW 25
Bharat Diwakar, PW 11 Shivani Gaur studied at the IMT,
Ghaziabad. 137. The prosecution examined Shri Bhagwan B. Mathur (PW- 13) who was an Executive Coordinator at the IMT,
 Ghaziabad who proved Exh.PW-13/1 to PW-13/5. He has
 established that Nitish Katara, Bharti Singh, Bharat Diwakar
 and Gaurav Gupta had pursued the full time PGDBM Course
 at the institute during 1998-2000 and that Shivani Gaur (a
 close friend of Bharti Yadav) was a student of PGDEM full
 time course from 1999-2000. PW-13 Shri Bhagwan B. Mathur was not cross-examined on
 behalf of any of the accused persons. His evidence is
 corroborated by the testimonies of PW-11 Shivani Gaur;
 PW-25 Bharat Diwakar; PW-26 Gaurav Gupta; PW-30
 Nilam Katara and PW-38 Bharti Singh Yadav. (iv) The involvement of deceased Nitish Katara and Bharti
 Yadav in an intimate romantic relationship and that they
 were contemplating a permanent life long relationship
 culminating in marriage 138. Mr. Ram Jethmalani, learned senior counsel for Vishal
 Yadav has conceded this fact, while Mr. U.R. Lalit, learned
 senior counsel appearing for Vikas Yadav has strongly
 contested existence of any romantic involvement between
 the two. 139. The prosecution has strongly relied upon the testimony of
 (PW-30 in the first trial) Nilam Katara, mother of the
 deceased Nitish Katara. Nilam Katara has testified that her
 elder son Nitish took admission in IMT Ghaziabad in the
 MBA Course in the year 1998 after finishing his graduation
 from Venkateswara College, Delhi. He completed his MBA
 in the year 2000 and joined as a management trainee with the
 Reliance General Insurance. He was confirmed as an
 Assistant Manager with Reliance General Insurance about
 one month before his death and his last office was located in
 the Hans Plaza, Connaught Place, New Delhi. The
 Connaught Place branch of the BNP Paribas Bank was in the
 building adjoining Nitish's office. The witness testified that
 Bharti Singh, Gaurav Gupta, Bharat Diwakar and Shivani
 were close friends of her son Nitish. The first three had also
 studied in the same course as Nitish in the IMT, Ghaziabad.
 She attributes the friendship of Nitish to Bharti to their being
 in the same course as well as in the same project at the IMT,
 Ghaziabad. 140. Nilam Katara has given an explanation for why Bharti used
 the last name ‗Singh' as well and has explained that Bharti's
 family consisted of her father Shri D.P. Yadav, her mother
 (probably Umlesh); an elder sister Bhawna Yadav, and two
 brothers Vikas and Kunal Yadav. 141. PW-30 further stated that after completion of the MBA
 Course, most of the friends of her deceased son moved out
 of Delhi while Nitish was compelled to stay in Delhi because
 of his father's health condition. Bharti also did not move or
 take up any job and the two became close friends. This
 friendship grew into a love affair and both of them used to
 organize get-togethers when other friends visited Delhi. The
 witness testified that she inferred this closeness from the
 increasing size of the flower bouquets being sent by Bharti,
 especially on Nitish's birthday in April, 2001. Nilam Katara
 sensed the growing intimacy from a mother's instinct as
 well. She states that when questioned Nitish would not give
 a clear answer till December, 2001. 142. The above testimony of Nilam Katara stands corroborated by
 the testimony of her son Nitin Katara, the younger brother of
 the deceased. 143. To prove the intimacy between Nitish Katara and Bharti, the
 prosecution has led evidence on the record on the following
 aspects: - 144. We may consider the evidence on record which corroborates
 the oral testimony of Nilam Katara PW-30 and Nitin Katara
 PW-39 with regard to the relationship of the deceased Nitin
 Katara with Bharti. (a) Cards, notes and letters sent by Bharti to Nitish Katara 145. It stands established on record that after the PGDBM course
 got over, while Bharat Diwakar, Gaurav Gupta went away,
 Nitish Katara stayed in Delhi and also continued to remain in
 close proximity with Bharti Singh. As the other friends went
 away, Bharti and Nitish Katara became close to each other. 146. A certificate dated 27th February, 2002 (Ex.PW38/X4)
 issued by the Oswal Sugar Limited with its headquarters at
 B-14, Gulmohar Park, New Delhi is on record certifying that
 Bharti was working as its Manager Coordination. 147. PW-30 Nilam Katara has proved on record numerous cards
 and letters sent to Nitish by Bharti declaring her intense
 feelings for him. The witness was in a position to identify
 Bharti's handwriting as she also had received a number of
 cards from her with her handwriting and signatures. The
 witness gave a graphic description of the signatures and
 handwriting of Bharti to explain its distinctive features. 148. The witness also pointed out that the deceased Nitish was
 also known by the family nickname ‗Chimpu'. Bharti had
 her own nicknames for him which included ‗Pudda‟ etc.
 Nitish similarly used to call Bharti by the nick name
 ‗Ghughu' or ‗Chuha' because of her petite figure. 149. PW-30 had stated that she had shown all the intimate cards
 written by Bharti to Nitish; the album etc. to the
 investigating officer. However, he had chosen only two
 birthday cards out of the lot which were proved on record as
 Exh.PW -30/1 and 30/2. These cards demonstrated beyond
 any doubt the existence of a deeply romantic relationship
 between Bharti Yadav and the deceased. 150. Nilam Katara also produced and proved on record the letters
 and cards written by Bharti to Nitish Katara which are Ex.
 PW 30/C-1 to Ex.PW 30/C-79. Also included a bed sheet as
 Ex PW 30/C-74 and three diaries from Ex PW 30/C-70 to Ex Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 81 PW 30/C-71 and Ex PW 30/C-72 and Ex PW 30/C-79 as a
 Valentine's Day album given by Bharti to the deceased. 151. On 14th February, 2001, celebrated as Valentine's Day,
 Bharti addressed a card in Hindi (Ex PW 30/C-15) to him. 152. In a card dated 17th October, 2001 (Ex PW 30/C-3), while
 referring to Nitish Katara being lodged in her heart, Bharti
 has scribed that ―you stayed for 10 months‖, thereby bearing
 out that the love affair commenced in January, 2001. 153. On his birthday on 20th April, 2001, Bharti has addressed
 thirteen birthday cards to Nitish Katara, each one making
 intensely passionate wishes about the two of them and
 declarations to him. (Ex PW 30/C-9; Ex PW 30/C-10; Ex
 PW 30/C-11; Ex PW 30/C-16; Ex PW 30/C-25; Ex PW
 30/C-26; Ex PW 30/C-27; Ex PW 30/C-31; Ex PW 30/C-33;
 Ex PW 30/C-34; Ex PW 30/C-38; Ex PW 30/C-53 and Ex
 PW 30/C-66). 154. Two deeply romantic cards both dated 17th May, 2001 were
 addressed by Bharti to Nitish Katara. In the cards dated 17 th
 May, 2001 (Ex PW 30/C-29) it was printed that ―now that I
 have found you....I want to spent my life with you‖. A large
 number of cards do not bear a date but reference to the date
 can be discerned from the nature of the card, for instance
 birthday cards which can relate only to the definite event. 155. Our attention has been drawn to the card which was dated
 11th July, 2001 (Ex PW 30/C-4). Another card dated 17th
 October, 2001 (Ex PW 30/C-42) again refers to the romantic
 relationship between the two as well as permanency in their
 relationship and reads thus: - [In print inside the card]

 And I believe because of you. [Handwritten notes in the card]

 "Chimpoo darling.. ...and i also believe that
 my best friend will always remain my best
 friend beside the fact that he‟s my lover
 too.... Coz I wud neva like to loose my best
 friend.... in him i found the most adorable,
 lovable, huggable and the most caring,
 concerned creature of tis planet .... So i
 always wan u 2 b .... Neva change from my
 friend to a lover (only) i wan both.... (ain‟ti
 selfish?) butchaltahai. 4 me seeing is
 believing.... So, if i c a change in u.... i l
 believe it..... Luv ya loads Ghughu" 156. While there is also a card dated 19th October, 2001
 (Ex.PW30/C50), four cards were given by Bharti to Nitish,
 each dated 17th November, 2001,(Ex.PW30/C23;
 Ex.PW30/C43; Ex.PW30/C49 and Ex.PW30/C61) 157. Nitish Katara unfortunately was killed on the night
 intervening 16th - 17th February, 2002. We find on record a
 card dated 25th January, 2002 (Ex PW 30/C-63), barely three
 weeks before he was killed, wherefrom it appears that Nitish
 was not well and Bharti sent flowers along with this card
 which reads as follows: - 158. Bharti Singh also sent a Valentine's Day card dated 14 th
 February, 2002 (Ex PW 30/C-21), i.e., two days before
 Nitish Katara was killed, to him. This card reads as
 follows:- Handwritten: Happy Valentines Sweetheart !

 Love u 2day n always Ghugu." 159. There are more undated cards (Ex.PW30/C30; Ex.PW30/C42 and Ex.PW30/C65) which make unequivocal
 declaration of her deep love, and the desire for a permanent
 and life time relationship-cum-commitment. 160. An undated letter (Exh.PW-30/C-1) written by Bharti to the
 deceased Nitish Katara reflects her extremely agitated state Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 85 of mind about the state of affairs and her regret that she
 could not please everyone. The relevant extracts of the letter
 reads as follows: - 161. As per the photocopy of her passport on the record of the
 trial court, Bharti was born on 20th of July, 1978. After the
 love affair blossomed from January, 2001, Nitish had a
 birthday on 20th April, 2001, while Bharti's birthday fell on
 20th July, 2001. It appears that the two were not able to Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 87 spend this birthday together despite their wishes to be
 together in circumstances apparent from her letter dated 22nd
 July, 2001 (Exh.PW-30/C-4) addressed to Nitish Katara. 162. Mr. Dayan Krishnan has drawn our attention to this letter
 dated 22nd July, 2001 which was written by Bharti who had
 been taken away by her family to Shimla on her birthday in
 which she expressed extreme distress and unhappiness at her
 separation on her special day from the deceased. The ld.
 trial judge has heavily relied on this letter which, apart from
 making unequivocal declarations of her feelings for the
 deceased Nitish Katara (referred to by the nickname
 ‗Chimpu' therein), also states as follows: (Emphasis supplied) 163. This letter dated 22nd July, 2001 (Ex. PW-30/C-4) written at
 2.30 a.m. from the Clark's Hotel, Mall, Shimla-171001
 laments the fact that Bharti Yadav had been taken to Shimla Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 90 and separated from Nitish Katara on her birthday. It reflects
 the deep feelings nurtured by the scribe for Nitish Katara.
 Agonizing over their separation Bharti has stated therein to
 keep everybody happy. This letter clearly refers to her being
 pressurized and put into fear with regard to her relationship
 with Nitish Katara. The writer remorsed that this year would
 never come back; that it was her first birthday (obviously
 after their relationship blossomed in January, 2001) and it
 was not with Nitish Katara when she was not even close to
 him but very far away. It unequivocally declared the depth of
 her love and clearly stated that, ―from next year onwards u‟ll
 always b there‖. Clearly, the writing reflects that Bharti was
 anticipating permanency in their relationship. The letter
 documents the opposition to Bharti's relationship with Nitish
 and the fact that everybody was dissuading her (‗samjhate
 hai‟) as well as trying to instill fear (‗sab mujhe darate hai‟)
 but she remained undaunted as she trusted Nitish. 164. Mr. Krishnan has also drawn our attention to the specific
 question put to Bharti Yadav in the witness box as to
 whether she had intended to marry the deceased Nitish
 Katara. The witness stated at one place that she used to like
 him but there was no proposal for marriage. She has further
 stated that she was very close to him. Even if this statement
 was accepted, when examined against the background of the
 repeated declarations in the contemporaneous writings by Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 91 her, it is established beyond doubt that they shared a deeply
 loving relationship and had every intention of permanency
 (‗lifetime') in their relationship. 165. Mr. Dey has submitted that Bharti Yadav though initially
 avoided admitting her letters, photos, etc. sent to Nitish
 Katara but has ultimately admitted that she had written
 several letters, cards and photographs placed on record. She
 has clearly attempted to deny that there was a proposal for
 marriage as she wanted to save her brothers. 166. The nature of the relationship is manifested by a Valentine's
 Day album made by Bharti Yadav and given to the deceased
 Nitish Katara (Exh.PW-30/C-75), Exh.PW-30/C-80 and PW-
 30/C-83, on the 14th of February. It is noteworthy that
 Valentine's day fell on 14th February, 2002, barely two days
 before Nitish was murdered. In the album prepared by
 Bharti Yadav for the deceased Nitish Katara she calls him by
 his nick name ‗Chimpu' and ‗Pudda' - her own names for
 him, while she has signed it with her nick name ‗Ghughu'. 167. The learned trial judge has discussed this aspect in detail and
 held that the fact that Bharti Yadav has not used the word
 ‗marriage' in the letter is not conclusive of the matter. The
 author has declared her feelings for Nitish openly and clearly
 in the letters. The cards and the letters lead to no other
 conclusion. The trial judge has also not accepted the Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 92 argument of the defence that one sentence in the letter is
 inconsequential. This sentence has to be read in the
 background of the other communications, the conduct of the
 parties and other circumstances. It is a well settled principle
 that evidence has to be considered as a whole and not
 piecemeal. 168. The intensely emotional correspondence and the cards
 written by Bharti reflect the progression of her relationship
 with Nitish Katara from friendship to that of deep romance
 and also clearly manifest their intention of making the
 relationship life-long. 169. It is trite that there will seldom be direct evidence of a
 relationship of the kind brought out by the prosecution, or of
 knowledge of family members of it as well as that of their
 reaction to it. These are matters which have to be inferred
 and deduced from examination of the proven circumstances.
 The few details from the timeline revealed in the evidence on
 record establish not only the depth of the relationship
 between the deceased Nitish Katara and Bharti but also the
 opposition that she was facing to the relationship from her
 family. 170. We may also note that the question before this court is not
 whether there was a relationship which was to culminate in
 marriage or not. The existence of and the depth of the Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 93 relationship has assumed importance because of the
 prosecution case that it was the boiling point which triggered
 the commission of the offence by the accused brothers, the
 reason being their opposition to same. What triggers off a
 negative emotion or violence in the mind of a human being
 has no absolute parameters or gradation or benchmarks.
 Opposition by relatives may be even to mere acquaintance or
 association with a person. 171. The attempt on behalf of Vikas Yadav to dispute closeness
 between his sister and the deceased and distance himself
 from them is thus belied by the extensive documentary
 evidence and the emotional revelations contained therein. (b)Day trip to Mumbai on the 24th of August 2000 to celebrate the
 birthday of sister Bhawna Yadav 172. The prosecution also led evidence in the trial of Vikas and
 Vishal Yadav of their day trip to Mumbai on 24th August,
 2000 to celebrate her sister Bhawna's birthday. These three
 were accompanied by Bhawna's fiance Deepak Yadav and
 Bharti's best friend Shivani Gaur. 173. It is in evidence that Nilam Katara per chance happened to
 be in Mumbai for a business trip on 24th August, 2000 when
 she was compelled to change her travel plans as her meeting
 got delayed and she had decided to travel by Jet Airways
 instead of the Rajdhani train as scheduled. When she called Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 94 up her son Nitish, he disclosed that he was also in Bombay
 for Bhawna's birthday celebrations. Nilam Katara met
 Nitish at the Mumbai Airport and he pointed out these
 friends to her. 174. Bharti first prevaricated that she was not sure about the
 presence of Nitish Katara in the Mumbai trip but, at a later
 stage in her testimony, admitted that she visited Mumbai
 along with Nitish Katara on 24th August, 2000. 175. PW-18 Hemant Narainan, a senior executive of Jet Airways
 proved the passenger manifest in respect of the flight
 no.900332 on 24th August, 2000 from Delhi to Mumbai as
 Exh.PW-18/1 and 18/2 which contains the name of the
 deceased Nitish Katara, Bharti Yadav and the other persons
 who had accompanied them. 176. It is also in the testimony of Bharti as well as Bhawna Yadav
 that on that date, Bhawna was only engaged to Deepak
 Yadav. As per the wedding invitation (Ex. PW 30/ C-76),
 Bhawna Yadav got married to Deepak Yadav only on 29th
 January 2001. A day trip of such nature is certainly not a
 usual happening. It was certainly not so in 2000. A small
 and exclusive group had joined in these celebrations in
 Mumbai. It unequivocally points to the special relationship
 between Bharti Yadav and Nitish Katara. It also establishes Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 95 that her sister Bhawna, her fiancée Deepak Yadav as well as
 best friend Shivani Gaur were aware of the same. (c) & (d) Outstation trips of Bharti and Nitish Katara to
 Fatehpur Sikri, Jim Corbett National Park and other
 places and photographs reflecting intimacy 177. Some photographs Exh.PW-11/1 to 4 of the deceased Nitish
 Katara and Bharti have been proved on record in the
 evidence of their friend Shivani Gaur. It is also in evidence
 and established from the photographs that Bharti Yadav and
 the deceased Nitish Katara had travelled to Fatehpur Sikri,
 Agra (Ex. PW 11/2, 4) and the Jim Corbett National Park
 (Ex. PW-11/1). The photographs also show trips to other
 places outside Delhi (Ex. PW-11/3) made by them. These
 photographs have been admitted by Bharti in her evidence.
 These photographs had been handed over by Nilam Katara to
 the police during the investigation of the murder of her son.
 Other photographs were proved as Exh.PW-30/C-80 and
 Exh.PW-30/C-83. 178. It has been argued by Mr. Krishnan, learned Additional
 Standing Counsel that PW-38 Bharti has testified that she
 was close to the deceased and in reference to the
 photographs had stated that ―the intimacy judged from
 photos is not just to him.‖ It is urged that the same suggest
 that the feelings were mutual and reciprocal. Mr. Dayan
 Krishnan points out that these photographs do not feature Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 96 any other person(s) but only the deceased and Bharti in close
 proximity feature in these photographs. 179. While the trip to Fatehpur Sikri could have been a day trip
 keeping in mind the distance involved, Jim Corbett National
 Park would not have been a day trip. 180. The photos certainly establish not only the fact that they
 made out station trips but also shared a relationship which
 was more than mere friendship. (e) Bharti‟s Bank Account with the BNP Paribas Bank,
 Connaught Place, New Delhi 181. PW-30 Nilam Katara has stated that the last office of the
 deceased was at the Hans Plaza, Connaught Place in New
 Delhi and that the branch office of the BNP Paribas Bank
 was in the adjoining building. 182. Nilam Katara has testified that Bharti was maintaining an
 account with the BNP Paribas Bank, Connaught Place and
 had given Nitish's address (7 Chelmsford Road, New Delhi)
 as her own residential address to this bank. She further
 testified that Bharti Yadav's statement of account used to
 come to her (the Kataras) residence. 183. The witness proved a photocopy of a letter received by the
 bank from Bharti (bearing the signatures of Bharti) which Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 97 was also taken by the investigating officer during
 investigation. 184. In Vikas and Vishal Yadav's trial, PW-40 Shivendra Tiwari
 has proved that the account no. 0031000144111 with the
 HDFC Bank, Suryakiran Branch, Connaught Place, New
 Delhi was the salary account held by Nitish Katara. The
 witness also produced the cheque bearing no.239166
 (Exh.PW-40/B) issued from this account by the deceased
 Nitish Katara on the 15th of September, 2001 in favour of
 Bharti Singh. This cheque was received by the HDFC Bank
 from the BNP Paribas Bank, Barakhamba Road, New Delhi
 for clearance which was effected on 18th September, 2001
 which bore the signatures of the authorized signatory at point
 A (Exh.PW-40/A). 185. The evidence on record establishes that this cheque was
 utilized by Bharti for opening her bank account with the
 BNP Paribas Bank. 186. In the witness box Bharti unequivocally admitted that she
 had given Nitish's residential address as her own with the
 BNP Paribas Bank and that she had submitted the account
 opening form (Exh.PW-38/X-2) containing such address. 187. It is in Bharti's evidence that shortly after the death of Nitish
 Katara, she had moved an application (Exh PW38/X-3) on
 1st March, 2002 to the Branch Manager of the BNP Paribas Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 98 Bank wherein she wrote that ―I have changed my address
 from 7, Chelmsford Road, New Delhi-110001 to B-14,
 Gulmohar Park, New Delhi-14‖. This request dated 1st of
 March 2002 was accompanied by certificate (Ex.PW30/X4)
 issued by Oswal Sugar Limited to the effect that since July,
 2000 she was working as a Manager Coordination at the
 office at B-14, Gulmohar Park. It was further requested in
 this letter dated 1st of March, 2002 that the address be
 changed in the account and all documents and
 correspondence be sent to her new address. 188. It is thus evident that at the time of opening the bank
 account, Bharti Yadav had two addresses in Delhi. The first
 being B-14, Gulmohar Park where from the family company
 Oswal Sugars Limited was operating, which was also a
 residence-cum-office, and where she worked as a Manager
 Coordination. Bharti had available a second address at 15,
 Balwant Rai Lane, New Delhi which was the official
 accommodation of her father Shri D.P. Yadav since he was a
 Member of the Parliament. Despite having these two
 addresses, she gave the address of the deceased Nitish Katara
 as her own for opening the bank account and also used a
 cheque given by him for opening it. 189. In her oral testimony before the trial court, Bharti attempted
 to prevaricate and refused to admit or deny that she had
 sought change of the address in the BNP Paribas Bank to B- 14, Gulmohar Park, New Delhi where her sister Bhawna had
 an office. This conduct of Bharti and her avoidance to make
 any statement in her testimony is itself illustrative of the
 pressure on her to save her brothers at all costs. She stands
 so pressurized that she orally denies even such facts which
 stand established by documentary evidence or which are so
 obvious that oral testimony to the contrary is completely
 unbelievable. 190. We find that the trial court has rightly held these to be
 important pieces of evidence, supporting not only the
 closeness of Bharti with the deceased, but also the fact that
 she had cause to keep it secret from her family. The timing
 of the request to change address is eloquent of the pressures
 on Bharti as well. 191. The fact that she had opened a bank account giving Nitish's
 address using a cheque given by him and was operating it
 thus establishes not only the depth of their involvement but
 also evidences objections of her family to the same, given
 her need to maintain the account surreptitiously. Her
 reluctance and prevarication about giving details about the
 account indubitably establishes the pressure to which she is
 being subjected not to reveal the truth. (f) Expensive gifts 192. Nilam Katara as PW - 30 has testified that in December of
 2001, Bharti had gifted Nitish Katara an expensive watch of
 the ESPRIT make which she bought from the Ansal Plaza.
 It is in evidence that Nitish Katara was wearing this watch
 when he was murdered and that the watch has been also
 recovered at the instance of the Vishal Yadav. 193. Nilam Katara has also testified about Bharti's gift of a
 golden chain with claws to her deceased son. She had
 argued with her son about accepting such expensive presents
 from Bharti Yadav. Her younger son, Nitin Katara (PW-39)
 corroborates the receipt of these gifts by Nitish from Bharti. 194. Bharti has made a bald denial that she gifted the articles to
 Nitish. Her testimony ends up as a tale of prevarications and
 initial denials. The evidence on these gifts of Nilam Katara
 and Nitin Katara (PWs 30 and 39) is clear and unequivocal.
 In fact Nilam Katara - PW 30 states that she had argued with
 her son Nitish about accepting expensive presents from
 Bharti - a very natural reaction of a mother's concern about
 proprieties. 195. The testimony of Nilam and Nitish Katara with regard to the
 gifts is completely unchallenged by the appellants in their
 cross-examination and remains unrebutted which proves the Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 101 veracity of their evidence. It inspires confidence and has to
 be believed. 196. We also find that amongst the cards proved on record Ex PW
 30/C-69 is a tag accompanying a gift. Bharti has endorsed
 the words ―Phor my life Chimpu‖ (‗Phor‟ being ‗for‟) which
 clearly suggests that this little card (Exh.PW30/C-69)
 accompanied a gift. 197. It therefore stands established that Bharti gifted expensive
 items to the deceased Nitish Katara, reinforcing the intensity
 of their relationship. (iv)(g) Call records of phone no.9811283641 being used by Nitish
 Katara and phone no. 9810038469 being used by Bharti
 Yadav established that they were in a relationship 198. One additional factor pointing to the close tie between Bharti
 and Nitish Katara deserves to be noticed. 199. The prosecution also established that Nitish Katara was
 using the cell phone no.9811283641. 200. The prosecution has also examined PW-22 Sh. R.K. Singh
 who is working as a nodal officer with the Bharti Cellular
 Limited to prove the call records relating to the cell
 no.98110038469 which was being used by Bharti Yadav.
 The call records for the telephone no.9810154964 which was
 being used by Bharat Diwakar (subscriber as per Exh.PW-
 22/1). 201. The witness has also established that the cell no.9810038469
 stood registered in the name of Bhawna Singh at R-4/32, Raj
 Nagar, Ghaziabad, U.P. He established the details of the
 calls made and received on this phone between 1st February,
 2002 to 31st March, 2002. He had brought the computer
 printout containing the details of the calls made which was
 proved on record as Exh.PW-22/2. 202. Several prosecution witnesses have testified to the effect that
 Bharti was using the mobile no.9810038469. There is
 considerable evidence that this mobile number stood
 registered in Bhawna Yadav's name (Bharti's elder sister),
 who has admitted this fact in her evidence. (Ex.PW22/1). 203. PW-21 Deepak Gupta who was working as the nodal officer
 working with Hutchison Essar Telecom Limited has
 explained that for reading connections from a cell phone to
 another cell phone or from a cell phone to a landline or vice-
 versa, the cell phone company has installed communication
 tower/cell sites at different places. Each cell phone is given
 a particular cell ID number which indicates location of the
 site/tower. Whenever a call is made/received by a cell phone
 serviced by the company, the data as well as the ID of the
 call is automatically recorded in a central computer installed
 at the head office of the company. 204. The location IDs between the year 2002 to 2004 have been
 proved by PW-41 Gulshan Arora, nodal officer of Hutchison
 Essar as Exh.PW-41/A. 205. Shri Deepak Gupta (PW 21 in Vikas and Vishal Yadav's
 trial) proved the computer printout in respect of phone
 no.9811283641 which was being used by Nitish Katara as
 Exh.PW-21/1 for the period 1/1/2002 to 1/3/2002. The
 witness explained that the Exh.PW-21/1 being the data chart
 relating to this phone number, contains a five digit number in
 which the cell ID is indicated by the three middle digits. The
 first and the last digit relate to the antennas etc. 206. So far as the cell IDs of the Bharti Cellular Ltd. are
 concerned, Shri R.K. Singh has explained that in the call
 record which has been produced by him, the cell ID is
 mentioned in the cell column in four digits. The first three
 digits indicate the cell tower installed by the company. The
 testimony of this witness could not be challenged in the
 cross-examination conducted on behalf of Vikas Yadav
 while Vishal Yadav did not cross examine this witness
 despite opportunity. 207. In the first trial, PW 25 Bharat Diwakar; PW 30 Nilam
 Katara; PW 39 Nitin Katara as well as PW 25 Gaurav Gupta
 have categorically testified that cell number 9810038469
 was being used by Bharti and that they were calling on this Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 104 phone and speaking to her. They also claimed to have
 received phone calls from her using this very cell phone. 208. The prosecution has proved the call records of Nitish
 Katara's cell phone (Exh. PW 21/1) as well as those of
 Bharti (Exh.PW22/2). These call records establish that 47
 phone calls have been exchanged between Bharti (cell
 number 9810038469) and Nitish (9811283641) from 1st of
 January, 2002 till the 16th February, 2002. It further shows
 that between 1st January, 2002 till 16th February, 2002, 33
 phone calls have also been received on Nitish's cell
 no.9811283641 from the STD Code 0120 (for Ghaziabad)
 and the landline numbers 4713790, 4751083 as well as
 4714101. As per the prosecution, these phones were
 installed at the residence of Shri D.P. Yadav at Ghaziabad.
 Additionally, there were 57 calls exchanged between Bharti
 using the same mobile and Nitish Katara from his landline
 number in January, 2002 and 30 calls till 16th February,
 2002. 209. The frequency of these calls coupled with the letters and
 cards lead to only one conclusion, that both of them shared a
 relationship which was more than mere friendship. 210. It is important to note that in her testimony, Bharti Yadav
 admits having written and given the letters, cards as well as
 the Valentine's Day album to Nitish Katara. She has also Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 105 admitted her having used the above noticed nick names of
 the deceased as well as her own nick names. Bharti Yadav
 has specifically admitted that the letters Exh.PW-30/C-2 and
 Exh.PW-30/C-4 are in her handwriting. She has also
 admitted all the letters and cards which have been exhibited
 in the testimony of PW-30 Nilam Katara. She admits their
 photographs as well. Though Bharti orally attempts to
 distance herself from a close relationship with Nitish, her
 oral testimony if disproved by this documentary evidence
 which also corroborates the oral testimonies of PW-30
 Nilam Katara and PW-39 Nitin Katara about the deeply
 romantic relationship which existed between the deceased
 and Bharti. This documentary evidence also establishes the
 opposition of Bharti's family to it. We shall discuss this
 circumstances hereafter. (e) The relationship between Bharti and Nitish Katara was
 disapproved by Vikas Yadav and Vishal Yadav 211. The prosecution led evidence before the trial court that the
 intimacy of the deceased with Bharti Yadav was of such
 extent that they were planning to marry and that this
 intimacy was not palatable to Vikas and Vishal Yadav. The
 opposition to the relationship was for two reasons: firstly,
 that the deceased did not belong to the Yadav caste and
 secondly, that Nitish Katara belonged to a family of
 government servants. It is the case of the prosecution that Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 106 this aversion to the relationship motivated them to get rid of
 the deceased. 212. The accused persons have completely denied knowledge of
 any such intimacy between Bharti and the deceased or of
 their plan to spend their lives together. Premised on this
 ignorance is the submission that therefore the question of
 their opposition does not arise. 213. The mother of the deceased, Nilam Katara, (appearing as
 PW-30 in Vikas and Vishal Yadav's trial) testified that in
 December, 2001, the deceased Nitish told her about his love
 for Bharti and that they were contemplating getting married;
 that he was not in a hurry to marry as he wanted to settle
 down first but Bharti's father was already looking for a
 match for her and that she might have to disclose their love
 to her father. PW 30 Nilam Katara further stated that ―Nitish
 had told me that Bharti was planning to tell her father about
 their intention to marry and that her brothers knew about
 her intentions but they were averse to her marriage with him
 but she would be able to convince her father‖. Nilam Katara
 has stated that Bharti was confident of being able to
 convince her father after her brother left town after the
 elections and his marriage. Bharti was waiting for her
 brother to leave town before telling her father. The witness
 talks about the apprehensions harboured by Bharti about
 disclosing their intentions to her father. 214. The same disclosure was made by Nitish Katara to his
 brother Nitin Katara to whom also he had specifically told
 about the opposition to the relationship by Vikas and Vishal
 Yadav. Nitin Katara also testified that Nitish had told him
 that Bharti's father Shri D.P. Yadav was not in favour of
 their relationship but she was hopeful that Shri D.P. Yadav
 would approve the relationship in the end. 215. Both Mr. U.R. Lalit learned senior counsel for Vikas Yadav,
 Mr. Ram Jethmalani, learned Senior Counsel for Vishal
 Yadav have urged at great length that the only evidence that
 the brothers (appellants) had knowledge of such love affair is
 the inadmissible evidence of a double hearsay to the effect
 that the deceased Nitish Katara had told his mother Nilam
 Katara that Bharti had told him that the appellants were
 opposed to his relationship. 216. It is urged that such hearsay of hearsay has to be excluded
 from consideration. In support of this submission, reliance
 has been placed on the pronouncement of the Madhya
 Pradesh High Court reported at AIR 1959 MP 84
 Chakrapani Jagannath Prasad v. Chandoo Sahadeo and
 Anr. In this case, an appeal was filed before the High Court
 of Madhya Pradesh by Chakrapani Shukla who was the
 returned candidate from the constituency no.164 for the
 Madhya Pradesh Legislative Assembly elections. An
 election petition had been filed by Chandoo Sahadeo and Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 108 Surya Prasad Mishra contesting candidates, challenging his
 election. So far as double hearsay was concerned, reference
 to a statement of the respondent in the election petition has
 been made in para 37 of the judgment in the following
 terms:- Such kind of evidence should have been
 excluded being not only hearsay but hearsay of
 hearsay. It could not have possibly be read and
 it is this evidence which seems to have coloured
 the decision of the Tribunal because it had
 before it such inadmissible evidence.‖ 217. Mr. Jethmalani has submitted at length on the exceptions to
 the rule of hearsay and cited Criminal Evidence (5th
 Edition) of Richard May and Steven Powles in support of
 his submission that while the fact that Nitish Katara made Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 109 the statement attributed to him by his mother and brother
 may be admissible as evidence of the fact that it was made,
 but this admissibility does not prove its truthfulness. The
 rule is explained in this text thus :- 218. Mr. Dayan Krishnan on the other hand has submitted at
 some length that under Section 8 of the Indian Evidence Act,
 1872, any fact which shows or constitutes the motive or the
 preparation for any fact in issue or relevant fact, is a relevant
 fact and admissible as such. It is contended that Sections 6 Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 110 to 8 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 are evidence res gestae
 which are exceptions to the rule of hearsay. 219. Learned Additional Standing Counsel has contended that
 evidence of previous relationship as well as background
 evidence are also admissible under the exception to the
 hearsay evidence rule. Mr. Krishnan has placed the relevant
 extracts from Phipson on Evidence (16th Edition); the Law
 of Evidence by Chief Justice M. Monir (15th Edition); and
 the 69th Report of the Law Commission of India on the
 Indian Evidence Act, 1872 in support of his submissions.
 Mr. Krishnan has also referred to the pronouncements of the
 Supreme Court reported at ( 1972) 1 SCC 107
 Damodarprasad Chandrikaprasad and Ors. v. State of
 Maharashtra ; ( 2005) 11 SCC 600 (para 205) State (NCT of
 Delhi) v. Navjot Sandhu ; (2009) 6 SCC 450 (para 19)
 Javed Alam v. State of Chhattisgarh ; ( 1973) 1 SCC 471
 R.M. Malkani v. State of Maharashtra in support of his
 submissions. Learned Additional Standing Counsel for the
 State has also relied on the Privy Council judgment reported
 at AIR 1947 P.C. 19 Smt. Bibhabati Devi v. R.N. Roy (also
 placed before us by Mr. Ram Jethmalani, learned Senior
 Counsel). 220. In order to decide on the objection raised by learned senior

 counsels on behalf of the appellants, Vikas and Vishal Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 111 Yadav before us that the testimony of Nilam Katara and

 Nitin Katara, to the extent that it relates to information given

 by Nitish Katara to them, is hearsay, it is necessary to

 examine the scheme of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 . 221. Sections 6 to 8 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 are placed

 in Chapter II titled ―Relevancy of facts‖. The relevant

 extracts thereof read as follows:- The conduct of any party, or of any agent to any
 party, or any suit or proceeding, in reference to
 such suit or proceeding, or in reference to any fact
 in issue therein or relevant thereto, and the
 conduct of any person an offence against whom is
 the subject of any proceeding, is relevant, if such
 conduct influences or is influenced by any fact in
 issue or relevant fact, and whether it was previous
 or subsequent thereto. Explanation 1. - The word ―conduct‖ in this
 section does not include statements, unless those
 statements accompany and explain acts other than
 statements; but this explanation is not to affect the
 relevancy of statements under any other section
 of this Act. Explanation 2. - When the conduct of any person
 is relevant, any statement made to him or in his
 presence and hearing, which affects such conduct,
 is relevant. Illustrations (a) A is tried for the murder of B.

 The facts that A murdered C, that B knew that A
 had murdered C, and that B had tried to extort
 money from A by threatening to make his
 knowledge public, are relevant. xxx xxx xxx (e) A is accused of a crime. The facts that, either before or at the time of, or
 after the alleged crime, A provided evidence
 which would tend to give to the facts of the case
 an appearance favorable to himself, on that he
 destroyed or concealed evidence, or prevented the
 presence or procured the absence of persons who
 might have been witnesses, or suborned persons
 to give false evidence respecting it, are relevant. xxx xxx xxx (h) The question is, whether A committed a
 crime. The facts that, A absconded after receiving a
 letter warning him that inquiry was being made
 for the criminal, and the contents of the letter, are
 relevant. (i) A is accused of a crime. The facts that, after the commission of the alleged
 crime, he absconded, or was in possession of
 property or the proceeds of property acquired by
 the crime, or attempted to conceal things which
 were or might have been used in committing it,
 are relevant. (j) The question is, whether A was ravished. The facts that, shortly after the alleged rape, she
 made a complaint relating to the crime, the
 circumstances under which, and the terms in
 which the complaint was made, are relevant.
 The facts that, without making a complaint, she
 said that she had been ravished is not relevant as
 conduct under this section, though it may be
 relevant as a dying declaration under section 32 , Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 114 clause 1, or as corroborative evidence under section 157 . (k) The question is whether A was robbed. The fact that, soon after the alleged robbery, he
 made a complaint, relating to the offence, the
 circumstances under which, and the terms in
 which the complaint was made, are relevant. The fact that he said he had been robbed without
 making any complaint, is not relevant, as conduct
 under this section, though it may be relevant as a
 dying declaration under section 32 , clause 1, or as
 corroborative evidence under section 157 .‖ 222. As to what constitutes ‗previous relationship; reference may
 usefully be made to the commentary on the same in Phipson
 on Evidence (16th Edition). ―(ii) Previous relationship cases
 In Ball, Lord Atkinson suggested, during
 argument, that the prosecution must be entitled
 to prove previous acts or words of the accused
 demonstrating his enmity towards the deceased,
 as being probative of guilt on a murder charge.
 His Lordship saw the evidence as establishing
 motive. Though, in context, these remarks
 might have been seen to say no more than that
 the evidence would, in consequence, come
 within the permissive part of Lord Herschell
 L.C.'s formulation of the similar fact rule in
 Makin v. Attorney-General for New South
 Wales,Kennedy J. had, in an earlier case, treated
 previous relationship cases as comprehended by
 the res gestae idea. In his words, the matters in Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 115 question were ―properly admitted to proof as
 integral parts of the history of the alleged crime
 for which the accused is on his trial‖. In Berry, doubt was cast upon Lord
 Atkinson's remarks in Ball, but that case was
 explained in Williams on the basis that the
 evidence of previous relationship was too
 remote in time from the matters at hand. In
 Williams itself, those remarks were said
 correctly to state the law, though the case is
 itself ambiguous as to whether the principle
 flows from the res gestae idea or from a Makin-
 type exception. The continuing legal force of Ball, and a
 judicial preference for Williams over Berry, has
 recently been confirmed by the Court of Appeal
 in Phillips. Though on the facts of that case, it
 would have been possible to justify admission
 of evidence showing the accused's bad
 relationship with his wife, who he was accused
 of murdering, as rebutting his own claim to
 have had a good relationship with her, the court
 specifically held that evidence was also
 admissible, in its own right, as tending to show
 the accused to have a motive for murdering
 her.‖ 223. There is a second extension to the common law res gestae
 doctrine which is described as ―background evidence cases‖
 by Phipson in paras 19 - 25 which reads as follows: 224. Phipson has noticed in Chapter 31 that ‗res gestae' is a latin
 phrase without an exact English translation. The expression
 is used in the common law to refer to ―the events at issue or
 others contemporaneous with them.‖ 225. Evidence of motive would fall in the category of what is
 known as ‗previous relationship' as also as ‗background
 evidence' which are evidence res gestae and has been treated Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 117 as exceptions to the bar against hearsay evidence, hence
 admissible. 226. Our attention has also been drawn to the 69th Report of the
 Law Commission of India on the Indian Evidence Act. Section 8 of the Indian Evidence Act has been considered in
 para 7.54 of the report. The observations of the Law
 Commission on Section 8 of the Act in para 7.57 and 7.58
 shed light on the questions which have been raised before
 this court which may usefully be extracted and read thus: However, even where Section 5 does not apply,
 motive may be relevant under Section 8 . It has been said that the section embodies, in a
 statutory form, the rule of evidence that the
 testimony of res gestae is always allowable
 when it goes to the root of the matter
 concerning the commission of the crime. 7.59. In a consideration of the cause or
 occasion of a fact, or the state of things under
 which it happened, nothing can be more
 material than to know whether any person had
 an interest in its happening, or took any
 measures calculated to bring it about. For this
 reason, motive and preparation become of the
 utmost importance. If A is found murdered, the
 fact that B had a strong motive for wishing A
 dead is, so far as it goes, a piece of evidence
 against B. So, if A is poisoned with arsenic, the
 fact that B, shortly before, procured arsenic, or
 made arrangements by which he would have
 access to A's food, points, in a measure, to B
 being the poisoner, and would be relevant fact
 at his trial.‖

 (Underlining by us) 227. As per the Law Commission Report, Section 8 is the
 common law rule of evidence in a statutory form that Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 119 testimony of res gestae is admissible when it goes to the root
 of the matter concerning the commission of the crime. 228. Motive is thus not only a relevant fact, is an integral part of
 the fact in issue. 229. Mr. Sumeet Verma, learned counsel appearing for Vikas
 Yadav has placed reliance on a Division Bench
 pronouncement of this court reported at 2009 (3) JCC 2436,
 Sohan Sahai v. State to contend that the evidence on motive
 is hearsay and, therefore, inadmissible. In this case, the
 prosecution has relied on two witnesses PW-3 and PW-4 in
 support of the contention that Mangli Bai (daughter of the
 deceased Surat Ram and accused Asad Bai) was married to
 PW-4 and had returned to her parents from her matrimonial
 house after 15 days of marriage. Whereas the deceased
 Surat Ram wanted her to return to matrimonial house, his
 wife Asad Bai did not wish her to return to PW-4 instead she
 wanted her to marry the appellant Sohan in consideration of
 Rs.1,500/-. This was the motive for which the deceased was
 allegedly murdered. In his cross-examination PW3 was
 unable to state the exact nature of the conversation which
 used to take place between deceased Surat Ram and his wife
 Asad Bai regarding their doubt. He categorically admitted
 that he was never present during such conversation. PW-3
 was also not an eye-witness to any such conversation
 between Asad Bai and her deceased husband. The court held Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 120 that PW-4 being the husband of Mangli Bai was an
 interested witness as it was inferred that he was nursing a
 grouse against Asad Bai for not allowing her daughter to
 return to the witness and her matrimonial home. He was
 unable to give any details as to whom Asad Bai wanted
 Mangali Bai to marry. It was in this background that the
 testimony regarding the motive part was held to be hearsay
 and therefore, inadmissible in evidence. The judgment has
 been rendered purely in the facts and circumstances of the
 case without laying a principle which could prohibit
 admissibility of the statement attributed to Nitish in the
 present case. The facts in the instant case are completely different as
 noticed by us hereinabove. 230. At this stage, we may appropriately also refer to the
 commentary on the rule against hearsay by Chief Justice M.
 Monir in the „Law of Evidence‟ (15th Edition) and
 exceptions to the rule against hearsay. Section 60 of the
 Indian Evidence Act is the statutory provision incorporating
 the rule that oral evidence in all cases, must be direct. There
 are however some exceptions to this general rule. The
 learned author has noted the exceptions :- 231. In the section dealing with statements made by persons not
 examined as witnesses which may in some cases amount to
 ―original‖ as distinguished from ―hearsay‖ or ―derivative‖
 evidence, the text states as follows :- 232. Mr. Krishnan has pointed out that so far as proximity of the
 complaint to the crime and spontaneity is concerned, in the
 very first written complaint made by Nilam Katara in the
 morning of 17th February, 2002 to the police station Kavi
 Nagar itself, the witness had stated that the accused persons
 were averse to Bharti and Nitish's relationship and had
 expressed suspicion about the accused being involved in the
 disappearance of her son. This complaint was registered as
 an FIR on the basis of which the investigation was started. 233. It is pertinent to mention that at the point of time, when the
 complainant Nilam Katara had lodged the police complaint
 on 17th February, 2002 (Exh.PW1/A) she had no knowledge
 as to what had happened to her son and believed that he was
 alive. Nilam Katara has explained as PW 30 that when she
 made the first complaint to the police, she only believed her
 son to be missing. She was aware of the aspirations of her
 son Nitish Katara and his feelings for Bharti Yadav as well
 as their intentions of converting their relationship into a
 permanent relationship of marriage. As mother of a missing
 child who was at that time only concerned about tracing out
 her missing son, she had made the first complaint. She was
 not aware that her son had been murdered. She was only
 interested in finding him. She was also aware that Vikas and
 Vishal Yadav were closely related to Bharti. In the witness
 box she has stated that Bharat Diwakar had told her that
 Nitish had been taken from his company by Vikas and
 Vishal Yadav and she premises her belief that her son could
 be with them. The Yadav's were her son's prospective in-
 laws. At that time the mother was not expecting the worst
 and would not have wanted to sour relations with
 prospective in-laws of her son without anything more. The
 report was only in the nature of a missing person report
 made with the intention that the police search for her son. It
 is natural that she did not want to cause any estrangement in
 a possible relationship between the two families, if her Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 124 apprehensions were found misplaced. It is obvious that
 Nilam Katara has carefully chosen the word ―sambhavta‖
 while making the complaint while referring to the appellants
 and has also suggested their aversion to the relationship in
 these circumstances. Nothing turns upon the fact that Nilam
 Katara has not elaborated or detailed the nature of the
 relationship shared between Nitish Katara and Bharti Yadav
 or that she has not mentioned Nitish's disclosure in her
 police complaint. 234. Our attention has been drawn to the pronouncement reported
 at ( 1972) 1 SCC 107 Damodarprasad Chandrikaprasad and
 Ors. v. State of Maharashtra (para 13) wherein the
 Supreme Court has observed that though the first
 information is not substantive evidence, one of the purposes
 for which it can be used is to show the implication of the
 accused to be not an afterthought or that the information is a
 piece of information res gestae. In certain cases, the First
 Information Report can be used under Section 32(1) of the
 Indian Evidence Act and under Section 8 of the Indian
 Evidence Act as evidence of the cause of the informant's
 death or as part of the informer's conduct. 235. In support of the submission that evidence under Section 8 of the Evidence Act is relevant and admissible, our attention
 has been drawn to the pronouncement of the Supreme Court Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 125 reported at ( 2005) 11 SCC 600 State (NCT of Delhi) v.
 Navjot Sandhu wherein it has been held as follows :- xxx

 The conduct, in order to be admissible, must be
 such that it has close nexus with a fact in issue
 or relevant fact. Explanation 1 makes it clear
 that the mere statements as distinguished from
 acts do not constitute ―conduct‖ unless those
 statements ―accompany and explain acts other
 than statements‖. Such statements
 accompanying the acts are considered to be
 evidence of res gestae.‖ 236. The disclosure by Nitish Katara to his mother Nilam Katara
 and brother Nitin Katara on the subject of his relationship
 with Bharti Yadav and the opposition thereto of her family
 members especially Vikas and Vishal Yadav are relevant as
 evidence of motive which led to commission of the offences
 of Nitish Katara's abduction and murder and admissible as
 evidence res gestae under Section 8 of the Indian Evidence
 Act as an exception to the hearsay rule. 237. Mr. Jethmalani, learned Senior Counsel has not disputed the
 fact that Nitish Katara had made the statement to his mother
 and brother, and that this was a relevant fact and so
 admissible under Section 8 of the Indian Evidence Act,
 1872. Mr. Jethmalani has restricted his challenge to the
 truth of the statement and contended that there was no proof
 of the same. The evidence led by the prosecution has to be
 scrutinized from this perspective. 238. The further question which has been posed is with regard to
 the truth of the statement so admitted and how the same is to
 be established. 239. We may examine section 3 and 60 of the Indian Evidence
 Act which read as follows: - Section 60 -Oral evidence must be direct. Oral evidence must, in all cases whatever, be
 direct; that is to say-- if it refers to a fact which
 could be seen, it must be the evidence of a
 witness who says he saw it; if it refers to a fact
 which could be heard, it must be the evidence of
 a witness who says he heard it; if it refers to a
 fact which could be perceived by any other
 sense or in any other manner, it must be the
 evidence of a witness who says he perceived it
 by that sense or in that manner; if it refers to an
 opinion or to the grounds on which that opinion
 is held, it must be the evidence of the person
 who holds that opinion on those grounds: 240. On this aspect, reference requires to be made to the
 pronouncement of the Privy Council reported at AIR 1947
 P.C. 19 Smt. Bibhabati Devi v. R.N. Roy (also known as the
 ‗Bhowal Sanyasi case'). In this case, a challenge was laid to
 evidence given by four witnesses referred to as the ―Maitra‖
 group whom the trial court accepted as unimpeachable
 witness and whose evidence he accepted as virtually
 conclusive proof of the time of alleged ―death‖ as having
 taken place at dusk between 7 and 8 o' clock. In the case,
 the time of death or apparent death at Darjeeling was crucial.
 If the death took place shortly before midnight and not at
 dusk, the fact would have been fatal to the plaintiff's case.
 The learned judges of the majority in the Calcutta High
 Court placed reliance on this evidence. The evidence of
 these four witnesses as described by the trial judge is noted
 in para 17 of the judgment and reads as follows: 241. The Privy Council noted that the man who so came in the
 common room had not been identified and was not a witness.
 It was further agreed that according to Hindu customs,
 cremation when possible would immediately follow the
 death. The appellants were questioning the admissibility of
 the statements and the above request for help attributed to
 the unidentified man. On this statement, the Privy Council
 had observed as follows:- 242. Mr. Sumeet Verma, learned counsel for the appellant has
 vehemently urged that no presumption can be drawn with
 regard to aversion or opposition of the appellant to the
 sister's relationship with the deceased Nitish Katara. It is
 urged that there is no evidence whatsoever on any instance
 of opposition, resistance or threat/warning by the accused
 brothers to the deceased or to Bharti. 243. Placing reliance on the pronouncement of the Supreme Court
 reported at (2012) 4 SCC 722, Govindaraju @ Govind v.
 State, it is urged that no presumption can be raised against
 the accused, either of fact or in evidence. There can be no
 dispute at all with this well settled principle. The judgment
 in Govindaraju (Supra) was rendered in the facts of the case
 wherein there was no evidence to support the case of the
 prosecution. However, the submission of learned counsel
 for the appellant that the reading of the evidence of the Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 131 prosecution in the present case would require presumption of
 truth of hearsay evidence is misconceived. 244. In this regard, the applicable principles on which the
 evidence has to be scrutinised have been laid down by the
 Privy Council in Bibhabati Devi (Supra). This court is
 required to consider the entire evidence, that is, all the
 proven circumstances on record to reach the conclusion with
 regard to the truth of the statement attributed to the deceased
 Nitish Katara. 245. Bharti's fears of her family and apprehensions because of the
 disapproval are also established from her conduct as well as
 her testimony in the witness box wherein she has done her
 utmost not only distance herself from any association with
 Nitish Katara but has completely denied the close ties which
 she had with him. It is her testimony of denial which has
 compelled the trial court as well as this court to closely
 scrutinize the evidence led by the prosecution on the issue of
 the nature of her relationship with Nitish. 246. Bharti's fear was apparent from her statement in the letter
 dated 21st July, 2002 (Ex.PW30/C4) that ―sab mujhe darate
 hai samjhate hai‖. The expression ―sab‖ has to be read in
 the context of where Bharti was placed when she was
 writing the same. She had been taken away from Delhi even
 though she wanted to spend her birthday on 20 th July, 2001 Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 132 with Nitish Katara and was writing the letter in the dead of
 the night at about 02:00 a.m. Her insecurity is based on this
 ―darana‖ (being put in fear by everybody) when she
 beseeched Nitish never to break her trust. She exhorts him
 in her letter to join her in Shimla while making repeated
 declarations of her feelings. 247. The testimony of PW-30 Nilam Katara on this aspect
 deserves to be carefully examined. There are two aspects to
 the same. The witness has nowhere stated that Nitish was
 narrating something that Bharti had told him. The witness
 has made a categorical statement that Nitish had told her
 about the following facts: - 248. PW-30 Nilam Katara further testified that Nitish had told her
 that Bharti was waiting for an opportune time and that she
 was waiting for her brothers to go out of town after the
 elections. Nitish further told PW-30 that her (Bharti's)
 brother's marriage was fixed for 6th March, 2002 and Bharti
 was hopeful that after marriage, he would go out and she
 would be able to talk to her father and convince him. 249. The above testimony would also show that Nitish had made
 a categorical and positive statement regarding the fact that
 Bharti's brothers had knowledge of their intention to marry
 and their objections to the same. There was also a positive
 statement made by Nitish to his mother Nilam Katara that
 Bharti was confident that she would be able to convince her
 father. Therefore PW-30 Nilam Katara has given evidence
 of what was in Nitish's personal knowledge and was told to
 his mother as a fact. This statement is not mere repetition of
 something Bharti told Nitish which he repeated to his mother
 and she in turn gave oral evidence about it. The statement is
 not double hearsay. It was therefore, a fact within the
 meaning of the expression in Section 3 which could be
 proved by oral evidence in terms of Section 59 of the Indian
 Evidence Act, 1872. 250. A specific question was put to PW-30 Nilam Katara as to
 which brother of Bharti was averse to such an alliance. She
 categorically answered that the two accused persons (Vikas
 and Vishal Yadav) were averse to this alliance. This
 statement is not hearsay, but an assertion of the fact that
 Nitish gave this information to her. 251. PW-39 Nitin Katara (who is Nitish's younger brother)
 testified that Nitish had told him also that Bharti and he were
 madly in love with each other and they wanted to get
 married. PW-39 has also said that Nitish had told him that Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 134 this relationship was not approved by her brothers Vishal
 and Vikas Yadav. This part of his testimony is statement of
 facts by Nitish to his brother Nitin. Nitish is further stated to
 have said that Bharti had told him (Nitish) that her father
 Shri D.P. Yadav was not in favour of the relationship but
 Bharti was hopeful that Shri D.P. Yadav would approve of
 this relationship in the end. 252. Existence of deep feelings between the deceased Nitish
 Katara and Bharti were within their personal knowledge as
 well as their expectations from this relationship. Similarly,
 the knowledge about the objection to this relationship on the
 part of the Bharti's brothers would be something which
 would be known to both of them. 253. The statements attributed to Nitish Katara by Nilam Katara
 and Nitin Katara are in the nature of confidences by Nitish to
 his mother and younger brother of his feelings for and
 relationship with Bharti Yadav and the difficulties in terms
 of opposition from her father and brothers being encountered
 by them. 254. It was natural and normal conduct for a son to disclose his
 relationship as well as apprehensions to his mother Nilam
 Katara as well as his brother Nitin Katara. 255. The only witness who could have appeared in the witness
 box to corroborate this statement was Nitish Katara who was
 no more. 256. It is important to note that in her complaint to the police
 (Exh.PW1/1) registered as FIR Exh.PW-1/2 as well as
 statement under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C., PW 30 Nilam
 Katara refers opposition by the brothers to the relationship of
 Nitish Katara and Bharti. In her statement under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C., Exh.PW-30/DA (recorded on 17th February,
 2002) PW-30 has again specifically stated that Bharti's
 father Shri D.P. Yadav and brothers were averse to their
 relationship. 257. In the instant case, as per the testimony of PW 30, Nilam
 Katara, Nitish had made the above statement to his mother
 Nilam Katara in December, 2001. He was tragically killed
 in the night intervening 16th / 17th February, 2002. The
 statement therefore would have been made only two and a
 half month prior to his death. In the light of the proven
 circumstances, the gap of two and a half months from
 December, 2001 to 16th /17th February, 2002 when the
 statement was made to Nilam Katara that Nitish Katara was
 murdered, would not impact the admissibility of the
 statement. (iv) Effect of failure to cross examine a witness despite
 opportunity 258. Both Mr. Dayan Krishnan, the learned Additional Standing
 counsel as well as Mr. P.K. Dey, learned counsel for the
 complainant have submitted that the testimony of PW 30
 Nilam Katara in respect of Nitish's confidences and the
 statement attributed to him was not challenged at all in
 cross-examination. 259. Our attention has been drawn to the protracted cross- examination of PW-30 Nilam Katara by counsels separately
 on behalf of Vikas Yadav and Vishal Yadav. 260. On behalf of Vikas Yadav the cross-examination of Nilam
 Katara is restricted to confronting her with her statements
 recorded under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. In her cross-
 examination as well, Nilam Katara has made a positive
 statement about the fact that Bharti was planning to tell her
 father about her feelings for Nitish and her intent to marry
 him. 261. In her cross examination by counsel for Vikas Yadav, Bharti
 has also clearly stated that the mother of Nitish Katara was
 aware of her closeness with Nitish. She corroborates PW-30
 Nilam Katara when she testified about Nitish also
 mentioning to her, his own mother's discomfort with their
 relationship also because Bharti belonged to a particular Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 137 family and Nilam Katara had warned him about his
 relationship with her because of her caste and her parentage. 262. Nilam Katara has mentioned that she had considered the pros
 and cons of the alliance and that she also had her own
 objection to the marriage; that she had told her son Nitish
 that it would not be a suitable marriage but her son was
 adamant about it. Nilam has testified that she told Nitish
 about possible interference and that Bharti's brother was
 already facing a criminal case etc. According to Nilam
 Katara, her son was looking at everything through tinted
 glasses and was adamant about marrying Bharti. 263. In the cross-examination by learned counsel appearing for
 appellant Vishal Yadav, PW-30 Nilam Katara had reiterated
 the above statement made by her, she further identified
 Bharti's two brothers as the two accused persons present in
 court who were averse and hostile to the relationship. PW-
 30 reiterates her statement that her own family including
 herself being agreeable to the marriage since Bharti loved
 her son and wanted to marry him. In her cross-examination,
 the witness also repeated her testimony that Bharti was
 waiting for an opportune time to talk to her father and that
 her brother's marriage was fixed for 6th March, 2002 after
 elections and that she was waiting that when her brother
 would go out after his marriage, she would talk to her father
 and convince him about her marriage. 264. Nitin Katara has also attributed a categorical statement to
 Nitish. He has also not been cross-examined at all by any of
 the accused persons on this. Nitin has testified that Bharti
 used to treat him like a little child and was always concerned
 about his well-being. 265. The cross examination of Nilam Katara and Nitin Katara
 shows that not a single question has been put to the
 witnesses challenging either the factum of such statement
 made by Nitish Katara to his mother Nilam Katara and
 brother Nitin Katara or their correctness. No suggestion has
 been put either to Nilam Katara or Nitin Katara that there
 was no permanent relationship being contemplated by the
 two or that the appellants had no knowledge about such
 relationship or that they had no objection to the alliance or
 on any aspect of the case of the appellants which is being set
 up before this court. The impugned judgment also shows
 that no argument to this effect even was laid before the
 learned trial court on this aspect. On application of the well
 settled principles, the only conclusion is that they have
 accepted the evidence as correct and admit the same. 266. It would, therefore, appear that neither Vikas nor Vishal
 Yadav challenged either the factum of the statement
 attributed to Nitish by his mother PW-30 Nilam Katara nor
 the correctness of the contents of the statement before the
 learned trial court. 267. In answer to a query as to the effect of the failure of the
 defence to cross examine PW-30 Nilam Katara or PW-39
 Nitin Katara on the disclosure by the deceased Nitish Katara
 to them, a stand has been taken by learned Senior Counsels
 for the appellants Vikas and Vishal Yadav that the said
 testimony was hearsay and therefore, completely
 inadmissible. It is submitted that, therefore, there was no
 necessity to cross examine any witness on inadmissible
 evidence. No argument to this effect was laid before the trial courts. The submission before this court that the failure to cross
 examine was because the evidence of the witness was
 inadmissible is really in the nature of an afterthought in the
 present appeals inasmuch as the witnesses have not been
 cross-examined on any of the material points with regard to
 which they have testified. This explanation for the failure to
 cross-examine the witness is clearly untenable. 268. The learned Trial Judge has also noted several factual
 assertions by the witness which were not challenged by the
 defence in the cross-examination. We find that neither Nilam
 Katara nor Nitish Katara have been cross-examined on their
 testimony about Nitish's confidences to them. No
 suggestions with regard to the disclosure of Nitish Katara
 about his love affair with Bharti Yadav; their intention to Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 140 marry or the opposition to the marriage were put. Several
 other material facts in the evidence of the witnesses have
 gone completely unchallenged. The learned Trial Judge has
 consequently presumed that the testimony of the witnesses to
 the extent it was not subjected to cross-examination stood
 accepted by the defence and was truthful. 269. The position which emerges from the record of the trial
 courts is that witness after witness has not been cross-
 examined on the substantive testimony but being merely
 confronted with previous statements made under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C., we had put a query to learned counsels as to
 the effect thereof. In this regard, Mr. Dayan Krishnan,
 learned additional standing counsel for the State has assisted
 this court with the position in law as emerges in judicial
 pronouncements. 270. This very issue also fell for consideration before the
 Supreme Court in a judgment reported at ( 1998) 3 SCC 561
 State of U.P. v. Nahar Singh . We find that the principle in
 this behalf was laid down by Lord Herschell L.C. in Browne
 v. Dunn (1893) 6 R 67. The observations of Lord Herschell
 have been cited with approval by the Supreme Court of India
 in this judgment. Para 13 and 14 of the judgment on this
 aspect deserve to be considered in extenso and read as
 follows:- This aspect was unfortunately missed by the
 High Court when it came to the conclusion that
 explanation for the delay is not at all
 convincing. This reason is, therefore, far from
 convincing.‖

 (Emphasis by us) 271. Another pronouncement placed before us on this issue by
 Mr. Krishnan is reported at ( 2001) 7 SCC 69 Rajinder
 Pershad (Dead) by LRs v. Darshana Devi . In this case, an
 issue was raised with regard to validity of service of the
 notice. The tenant had contested that the postman was on
 leave of two days including the date on which he claimed to
 have tendered the notice. The postman was however not
 cross-examined on this aspect. The Supreme Court rejected
 the challenge to the service of the notice on account of the
 failure of the tenant to cross examine the postman. The Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 143 court had placed reliance on the aforenoticed principles laid
 down in Nahar Singh (supra) and observed as follows: 272. So far as the evidence with regard to a conversation is
 concerned on the impact of failure to cross-examine the
 witness who deposed thereto, we may also usefully refer to
 the commentary on the issue in Phipson on Evidence (16th
 Edition) in para 12 - 35 at pg 338A which is to the following
 effect: 273. On the same aspect, reference also deserves to be made to
 the authoritative commentary by Sarkar in the Law of
 Evidence 17th Edition (reprint at pg 211 at pg 2730). The
 relevant extract thereof reads as follows: 274. It is therefore well settled that the accused persons having
 failed to cross examine witnesses on critical aspects in their
 testimony, cannot be permitted to impeach such evidence. If
 the testimony of a witness was being challenged by them, Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 147 they were bound to have given a chance to the witness to
 make any explanation with regard to the same. (v) Testimony of a witness declared hostile: Evidentiary value 275. It is trite that the testimony of a hostile witness cannot be
 treated as completely effaced or washed of the record in its
 totality. To the extent, the version of such witness is found
 dependable on a close scrutiny, it can be accepted by the
 court. In this regard, reference may usefully be made to the
 pronouncement of the Supreme Court reported at (2012) 4
 SCC 327, Bhajju @ Karan Singh v. State of M.P.

 ―35. Now, we shall discuss the effect of
 hostile witnesses as well as the worth of the
 defence put forward on behalf of the appellant-
 accused. Normally, when a witness deposes
 contrary to the stand of the prosecution and his
 own statement recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C., the prosecutor, with the permission of
 the court, can pray to the court for declaring that
 witness hostile and for granting leave to cross-
 examine the said witness. If such a permission
 is granted by the court then the witness is
 subjected to cross-examination by the
 prosecutor as well as an opportunity is provided
 to the defence to cross-examine such witnesses,
 if he so desires. In other words, there is a
 limited examination-in-chief, cross-examination
 by the prosecutor and cross-examination by the
 counsel for the accused. It is admissible to use
 the examination-in-chief as well as the cross-
 examination of the said witness insofar as it
 supports the case of the prosecution. 36. It is settled law that the evidence of
 hostile witnesses can also be relied upon by the
 prosecution to the extent to which it supports
 the prosecution version of the incident. The
 evidence of such witnesses cannot be treated as
 washed off the records, it remains admissible in
 trial and there is no legal bar to base the
 conviction of the accused upon such testimony,
 if corroborated by other reliable evidence. Section 154 of the Act enables the Court, in its
 discretion, to permit the person, who calls a
 witness, to put any question to him which might
 be put in cross-examination by the adverse
 party. 37. The view that the evidence of the witness
 who has been called and cross-examined by the
 party with the leave of the court, cannot be
 believed or disbelieved in part and has to be
 excluded altogether, is not the correct
 exposition of law. The Courts may rely upon so
 much of the testimony which supports the case
 of the prosecution and is corroborated by other
 evidence. It is also now a settled cannon of
 criminal jurisprudence that the part which has
 been allowed to be cross-examined can also be
 relied upon by the prosecution. These principles
 have been encompassed in the judgments of this
 Court in the cases: 277. In Khujji (supra) the evidence of two eye-witnesses was
 challenged by the prosecution. The court agreed with the
 submission of the learned counsel for the State that the
 evidence of these two witnesses with regard to the factum of
 the incident deserves to be scrutinized. PW-4 was found in
 the company of the deceased at the place of occurrence. It
 was observed by the Supreme Court that immediately after
 the incident, within less than an hour thereof, PW 4 went to Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 150 the police station and lodged the first information report. The
 court observed that though the first information report was
 not substantive evidence but the fact remains that
 immediately after the incident, and before there was any
 extraneous intervention, PW 4 went to the police station and
 narrated the incident. The first information report was a
 detailed document and it was not possible to believe that the
 investigating officer imagined those details and prepared the
 document Ex. P-3. The Supreme Court observed that the
 detailed narration about the incident in the first information
 report went to show that the subsequent attempt of PW 4 to
 disown the document, while admitting his signature thereon,
 is a shift for reasons best known to PW 4. The only area
 where the witnesses had not supported the prosecution and
 have resiled from their earlier statements is regarding the
 identity of the assailants. PW-4 had identified the appellant
 in his examination-in-chief but in his cross-examination had
 stated that the accused and the co-accused had their backs
 towards him and he could not see their faces while he could
 identify the remaining persons. The court held that on
 reading of his entire evidence, his statement in cross-
 examination on the question of identity of the appellant and
 his companion was a clear attempt to wriggle out of what he
 had stated earlier in his examination-in-chief and that he had
 ample opportunity to identify the assailants. His evidence Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 151 with regard to the time, place and manner of the incident as
 well as the identity of assailants was found to be acceptable. 278. On the issue of the witnesses turning hostile and the extent to
 which their testimony can be relied upon, we may also refer
 to the observations made in AIR 2012 SC 3539, Shyamal
 Ghosh v. State of West Bengal. The relevant portion reads
 as follow:- 279. In the pronouncement of the Supreme Court reported at
 (2012) 4 SCC 722 titled Govindaraju alias Govinda v. State
 by Sriramapuram P.S. and Anr. , the Supreme Court
 observed that the evidence of hostile witnesses has to be
 dealt with greater caution to ensure that justice is done. ―36. It is also not always necessary that
 wherever the witness turned hostile, the
 prosecution case must fail. Firstly, the part of
 the statement of such hostile witnesses that
 supports the case of the prosecution can always
 be taken into consideration. Secondly, where
 the sole witness is an eyewitness who can give a
 graphic account of the events which he had
 witnessed, with some precision cogently and if
 such a statement is corroborated by other
 evidence, documentary or otherwise, then such
 statement in face of the hostile witness can still
 be a ground for holding the accused guilty of
 the crime that was committed. The court has to
 act with greater caution and accept such
 evidence with greater degree of care in order to
 ensure that justice alone is done. The evidence
 so considered should unequivocally point
 towards the guilt of the accused.‖ 280. The law applicable to cases involving the hostile witness was
 summarized in the pronouncement of the Supreme Court
 reported at (2010) 9 SCC 567 Muniappan v. State of Tamil
 Nadu held as follows:- 281. These principles were reiterated in a later pronouncement
 reported at ( 2011) 11 SCC 111 Rameshbhal Mohanbhai
 Koli & Ors. v. State of Gujarat . The testimony of witnesses
 who have turned hostile in the present case therefore cannot
 be rejected in totality. It has to be examined based on these
 principles. Discussion 282. It is also important to note that so far as the opposition of
 Vikas and Vishal Yadav to the association/relationship of
 Bharti with Nitish Katara is concerned, evidence was given
 thereof in both trials by not only Nilam Katara, but by her
 son Nitin Katara as well. 283. It has been submitted by Mr. Ram Jethmalani that in answer
 to question no. 11 put to Vishal Yadav under Section 313 of
 the Cr.P.C., he has stated that he did not know that deceased
 Nitish Katara had told his mother PW-30 that Bharti Yadav
 wanted to marry him and that Bharti had stated that Vikas,
 Vishal and Shri D.P. Yadav were averse to their marriage
 but she was confident that she would be able to convince her
 father. Vishal had further stated that he had no reason to
 object to the marriage of his cousin sister. 284. So far as Vikas Yadav is concerned, in answer to question
 nos. 12 and 15 put to him in the statement under Section
 313 of the Cr.P.C., he denied knowing Nitish Katara as well
 as having knowledge of any intimacy between Bharti Yadav
 and Nitish Katara. He also denies that there was any
 opposition to the said marriage. He claimed that his family
 was educated and that even his marriage was fixed in a
 middle class family. 285. The accused persons were fully aware of the case of the
 prosecution. They had received all documents including the
 statements which had been recorded under Section 161 of
 the Code of Criminal Procedure by the investigating officer
 during investigation. The accused persons before this court
 were not illiterate or impoverished but were well placed in
 society. They had the best of legal assistance and their
 defence was being conducted by a team of able legal
 professionals. There is no cross-examination of either of the witnesses on
 any material aspect of their evidence. Such portions are
 deemed to be admitted by the appellants. 286. We may also note the caution drawn by courts on the issue
 of the failure of the defence to make suggestions to the
 prosecution witnesses and the extent that this can be used Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 156 only to lend assurance to the prosecution case, but not for
 filling gaps in the prosecution evidence. In such circumstances, in (2007) 4 AD (Crl.) SC (445),
 Subhash v. State of Haryana, the Supreme Court held that
 there was no reason to disbelieve the sequence of events
 narrated by prosecution witness as nothing has been
 suggested to him as to why he should give false evidence
 against the appellant. So far as the prosecution witnesses in the instant case are
 concerned, it is the same position. The aforestated legal
 position shall bind evaluation of their testimonies. If found
 truthful, the evidence of witnesses not subject to cross
 examination, shall bind the appellants. 287. We have examined and rejected the legal objection to the
 admissibility of the statement attributed to Nitish Katara by
 his mother and brother. Therefore having failed to challenge
 the statements, the same shall bind the appellants in
 accordance with law. 288. In the light of the above discussion, we are also unable to
 agree with Mr. U.R. Lalit, ld. senior counsel and Mr. Sumeet
 Verma, ld. counsel for the appellant that the testimony of
 PW-30 Nilam Katara with regard to the statement of the
 deceased was knowledge derived by Nitish Katara from
 Bharti and that the same could not have been within the Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 157 knowledge of Nitish himself. Reading of the statement of
 not only Nilam Katara, but also the statement of her younger
 son Nitin Katara would show that this was not so. We also
 find that no such case was set up by the appellants before the
 trial court. 289. The suggestion therefore, by learned senior counsel for the
 appellants to the effect that it is a double hearsay i.e. to say
 that Nitish Katara was repeating information given by
 somebody else is not borne out from the testimony of his
 mother and brother. Therefore the submission that the same
 was double hearsay is incorrect. 290. The statement made by Nitish Katara to his mother Nilam
 Katara and brother Nitin Katara is relevant as evidence of
 motive, covered as evidence res gestae falling within the
 exception to the hearsay rule under Section 8 of the Indian
 Evidence Act, 1872 and hence admissible in evidence. The
 several facts and documents proved by the prosecution and
 the unchallenged testimony of the witnesses with regard to
 the statements lead to the only possible inference that is of
 the opposition of the appellants to the intimacy between
 Nitish Katara and their sister. The evidence on record
 establishes beyond doubt the truth of the contents of the
 statements made by Nitish Katara to his mother and brother.
 The conclusions arrived at in the impugned judgments, are Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 158 the only possible conclusions from the established facts and
 circumstances. 291. Before parting with this discussion on motive, we must note
 that we have been compelled to dwell hereinabove several
 acts of Bharti conducted clandestinely to conceal knowledge
 about them from third persons, be it letters, cards and
 photographs; a bank account giving Nitish's address; trips
 and outings with Nitish; gifts etc. Why this crime is a
 pertinent question in this case resting on circumstantial
 evidence. 292. Had Bharti stepped into the witness box and truthfully
 acknowledged her relationship with Nitish, this entire
 discussion and analysis of her letters and cards to the
 deceased may have been rendered unnecessary. While
 privacy concerns of a witness deserves every respect,
 however, it cannot be permitted to impede the course of
 criminal justice. If Bharti Yadav had stood by her
 commitment to Nitish Katara, in the witness box, the
 alternative defence about its ignorance (which has been set
 up) was still available to the appellants. But then, it is not
 for this court either to guide the witness or suggest what
 accused persons must do. Bharti Yadav has opted for the
 course she has adopted, obviously guided by legal experts
 and family. A serious crime has taken place. Bharti
 therefore can make no grievance that her letters, cards, Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 159 photographs and phone details are part of record of court
 proceedings and judgments. (vi) Knowledge of Bharti‟s family members about the relationship 293. So far as the knowledge of the other relatives of Bharti
 Yadav of her intention to marry Nitish and opposition to the
 relationship is concerned, the prosecution has led evidence
 on the issue. PW-30 Nilam Katara has categorically testified
 that "the brothers of Bharti Singh were averse and hostile
 and they are the 2 accused persons in court". In answer to a
 specific question by the defence as to which of the brothers
 of Bharti was averse to her marriage to Nitish, the witness
 has categorically stated that the two accused persons present
 in court (i.e. Vikas Yadav and Vishal Yadav) were averse to
 the marriage of Bharti and Nitish. 294. Nitish Katara had told his mother in December 2001 that
 Bharti's brothers were averse to their relationship. This
 shows that they had knowledge of the same. He made the
 same statement to his brother. 295. PW-30 Nilam Katara has also stated that when she visited
 the house of Bharti Yadav on 17th February, 2002 in search
 of her missing son, Bharti's mother Mrs. Umlesh Yadav
 knew all about the Katara family including details of the
 sickness of her husband and his surgery; the weddings in the
 Katara family etc. Again Nilam Katara was not cross- examined on this aspect at all. This testimony establishes
 that Bharti's mother was aware of the proximity between
 Bharti and Nitish Katara. 296. In the statement of Bharti Yadav under Section 161 of
 Cr.P.C. (Ex.PW 35/AB) recorded on 2nd March, 2002,
 Bharti has stated that her ‗bua' (father's sister) and ‗mami'
 (wife of mother's brother) knew about her affair with Nitish
 Katara. This statement is substantiated by the call records of
 Nitish Katara's cell phone no.981128364 (Exh.PW22/2).
 These records reflect incoming calls from telephone nos.
 4721001 and 4720020 which phone lines had been installed
 in Shri Bharat Singh's house. Shri Bharat Singh is Bharti
 Yadav's maternal uncle (‗mama') and even appeared as her
 attorney before the trial court. Several outgoing calls from
 these numbers to Nitish's cell phone are reflected in Nitish
 Katara's cell phone records. Obviously Nitish Katara was
 known to Bharat Singh's household. The only bridge
 between Nitish and them was their relationship to Bharti. 297. PW-38 Bharti has taken a stand that she did not have a close
 relationship with Nitish and her brothers and father were not
 aware about any relationship. However, there were several
 calls to Nitish Katara's cell phone from landline no.
 4713790, 4751083 and 4714101 which stood installed at the
 residence of Shri D.P. Yadav in Ghaziabad manifesting that
 Bharti's statements in her evidence are incorrect testimony. 298. It stands established that on the 24th of August 2000, Bhawna
 Yadav (sister of Bharti) accompanied by her fiancée, Deepak
 Yadav; sister Bharti, as well as Shivani Gaur, Nitish Katara
 went to Mumbai for a day trip to celebrate her birthday.
 Thus an exclusive group of closely attached sisters, friends
 and a fiancée went on this special trip. Bhawna and Bharti
 lived in one house with their parents and brothers including
 Vikas Yadav. It is not possible to believe that the family
 members of Bhawna and Bharti Yadav, which included their
 brothers and parents did not know of Bhawna's birthday on
 24th August, 2000 or about the celebrations taking place in
 Mumbai! Birthdays are family occasions more so in which a
 fiancée was joining. The family would be expected to be
 aware of the participants in the birthday celebrations.
 Bharti's sister Bhawna was certainly aware of the
 relationship. In normal course even Deepak Yadav
 (Bhawna's fiancee)'s family would also be aware of his
 prospective bride's birthday and of the celebrations in
 Mumbai. 299. It stands proved in evidence that Vishal Yadav though
 uninvited attended Shivani Gaur's wedding with Vikas
 Yadav. Vishal Yadav was so close to Vikas Yadav, that, as
 per their defence, they accompanied one another to several
 functions on the fateful night, where one or the other or both
 were invited. It is also established that the two brothers Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 162 roamed together in Ghaziabad. Their houses were located to
 close proximity in the same colony in Ghaziabad. They
 were closely related to each other. These facts point to only
 one conclusion and that is of the closeness of these two
 appellants. 300. Bharti wrote the letter dated 22nd July, 2001 (Exh.PW-30/C- 4) wherein she laments the fact that she has been separated
 from Nitish on her birthday and taken away to Shimla away
 from him on her birthday. The forced separation, clearly a
 conscious act, also points towards the fact that Bharti's
 relatives were aware of her attachment with Nitish and their
 aversion to it. We have also noticed heretofore also the clear
 and unambiguous statement made by Bharti in Exh.PW-
 30/C-4 to Nitish clearly reflecting opposition of persons
 close to her to her relationship with Nitish Katara. 301. The very fact that Bharti Yadav opened a bank account
 surreptitiously giving Nitish's address as her own (despite
 two addresses in Delhi) is a strong circumstance which also
 corroborates the fact that Bharti Yadav's family was
 disapproving of their relationship, so much so that she feared
 from them and took recourse to subterfuge to assert her
 independence and further her aim of cementing her closeness
 to Nitish. 302. Both Vikas Yadav and Vishal Yadav have denied knowledge
 of the relationship as well as their opposition to it in the
 statements recorded under Section 313 of the Cr.P.C. So far
 as Vikas Yadav is concerned, the same was put to him as
 question no.8 and as questions no. 3 and 5 to Vishal Yadav.
 Given the above proven facts and circumstances, this denial
 is inconsequential. 303. In his statement under Section 313 of the Cr.P.C., in answer
 to the question no.16 Vikas Yadav has stated that he had a
 free and frank relationship with his sister. In this
 background, the statement of his sister PW-38 Bharti that the
 information about her friendship with Nitish Katara was
 personal information and so her family did not know about it
 is clearly unbelievable. 304. While witnesses may prevaricate, speak lies or withhold the
 truth, documents and events speak for themselves and cannot
 be altered. None of the cards which were received by Nitish
 Katara were posted by Bharti, they have all been physically
 handed over by her. This fact also manifests the extensive
 number of times that the two might have met. The records of
 Bharti Yadav's bank account in the BNP Paribas Bank; the
 voluminous letters, cards, diaries, album and photographs as
 well as the call records by themselves establish not only the
 depth of the relationship of Bharti with the deceased, but
 also the apprehensions and fears nurtured by PW 38 Bharti Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 164 stemming from the opposition of her relatives to the
 relationship. 305. The extent of the fear nurtured by Bharti because of the
 opposition is apparent from her conduct which has been
 proved on record and noticed by us above. 306. So far as the impact of the knowledge of the relationship and
 aversion to it is concerned, in the factual background
 established in the present case we find no force in the
 submission made on behalf of Vikas Yadav that, mere
 knowledge of the relationship and being averse to it, is
 insufficient to give motive to the appellants to murder. 307. Aversion or opposition to relationship does not necessarily
 require prior assault or actual threat. Bharti is closely related
 to the appellant Vikas Yadav. They were cohabiting in one
 house as part of the same family. There is also no gradation
 of the extent of intimacy or level of two persons' friendship
 or intimacy, which could incite aversion. Similarly, there
 can be no particular point at which the opposition may
 instigate a person to kill another who is perceived to be
 responsible for the cause of the opposition. 308. Having been taken through the trial court record in detail and
 having examined the same, we agree with the learned trial
 judges that there is relevant and admissible evidence on
 record which leads to only one conclusion that Bharti was Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 165 involved in a romantic relationship with Nitish Katara and
 they were looking to permanency therein. The prosecution
 has established amongst other that Bharti's mother
 (Umlesh), her ‗mami‟, her ‗bua‟ (father's sister), her sister
 Bhawna, her brother-in -law Deepak Yadav, her brothers
 Vikas and Vishal, her father Shri D.P. Yadav and family
 members as well as friends Shivani Gaur, Bharat Diwakar,
 Bharat Gupta. During the investigation, Shivani's brother
 Rohit Gaur also gave a statement to the police about Bharti's
 involvement with Nitish Katara. Bharti's family members
 were aware of the same. It also stands established that
 Bharti's brother Vikas Yadav (her real brother), Vishal
 Yadav (her cousin brother) as well as her father Shri D.P.
 Yadav were so averse to her relationship with Nitish Katara
 that she resorted to clandestine in several acts noticed above.
 The evidence on record also proves that Bharti nurtured the
 hope that she could convince her father to accept this
 relationship. 309. There can be no direct evidence with regard to state of mind
 as aversion or a relationship which cannot manifest in
 physical terms. Inference has to be drawn from the
 surrounding circumstances. 310. In Smt. Bibhabati Devi v. R.N. Roy (supra), the Privy
 Council laid down that from the circumstances which stand
 proved on record beyond reasonable doubt before the court, Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 166 the court is adequately empowered to draw a presumption
 about the truth of a statement. The statement attributed to
 the deceased Nitish Katara by his mother PW-30 Nilam
 Katara as well as PW-39 Nitin Katara, has to be examined
 conjointly with the aforenoticed proven facts. 311. In the judgment dated 28th May, 2008, the learned Trial
 Judge has concluded that Bharti's family including Vikas
 Yadav and Vishal Yadav had knowledge of their affair and
 that they had decided and were planning to get married. The
 learned trial judge has also held that Bharti's brothers were
 opposed to the alliance. 312. So far as Sukhdev @ Pehalwan, is concerned, in the
 judgment dated 6th July, 2011, the learned Trial Judge has
 noted the above finding that Vikas Yadav and Vishal Yadav
 had a strong motive to eliminate the deceased Nitish Katara
 which stood established in the trial and that the accused,
 Sukhdev @ Pehalwan being in the employment in the liquor
 shop business of the family of the accused shared in that
 motive which has to be inferred from the incriminating
 circumstance of the three appellants being found and seen
 together in the company of the deceased. (vii) The statements attributed to Nitish Katara by PW-30 Nilam
 Katara and PW-39 Nitin Katara are admissible under
 section 32(1) of the Indian Evidence Act Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 167 313. There is yet another aspect to this issue which has been
 urged by Mr. Dey, learned counsel for the complainant. It is
 submitted that the statements of the deceased about the
 aversion of Vishal Yadav and Vikas Yadav to his
 relationship with Bharti, to his mother Nilam Katara as well
 as brother Nitin Katara are admissible under section 32(1) of
 the Indian Evidence Act. 314. The relevant extract of Section 32(1) of the Indian Evidence
 Act reads as follows: - Such statements are relevant whether the person
 who made them was or was not, at the time
 when they were made, under expectation of
 death, and whatever may be the nature of the Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 168 proceeding in which the cause of his death
 comes into question. xxx xxx xxx‖ 315. This statutory provision thus relates to inter alia statements
 by a person who is dead with regard to following categories
 of statements:- (i) Cause of death, or, (ii) ―......any of the circumstances of the transaction
 which resulted in his death‖, in a case in which the cause
 of that person's death comes into question. 316. We have held that the statement of Nitish Katara about the
 aversion of Bharti's brothers to his relationship with Bharti
 in the mouth of his mother and brother is res gestae under Section 8 of the Indian Evidence Act as evidence of motive. 317. Mr. P.K. Dey, learned counsel for the complainant has urged
 that this statement is also part of the circumstances of the
 transaction which has resulted in his death. The submission
 is that the cause of Nitish Katara's death is in question in the
 present case and such statement would therefore, be
 admissible under Section 32(1) of the Evidence Act. To
 support this submission reliance has been placed on judicial
 pronouncements reported at AIR 1955 TC 87, Thanuvan
 Retnakaran v. State; 1997 (4) SCC 161, Rattan Singh v. State of H.P.; 2002 (1) SCC 22, Patel Hiralal v. State of
 Gujarat; 2010 ( 9) SCC 64, Amar Singh v. State of
 Rajasthan and 1958 SCr 1495, Virsa Singh v. State of
 Punjab. 318. In the judgment reported at AIR 1955 TC 87 Thanuvan
 Retnakaran v. State, the deceased Sumathi, an unmarried
 daughter of PW 1, was seduced by the first accused who was
 her neighbour and a son of a rich man of the locality,
 resulting in her getting pregnant. The first accused with the
 help of the second accused, his neighbour and companion,
 attempted to procure an abortion which failed. The first
 accused had given Sumathi all sorts of hopes and promised
 to accept her as his wife. But when the attempt to bring
 about the abortion failed, he began to back out. By
 Makaram 1128, (corresponding to January 1953) Sumathi
 had advanced to six months pregnancy; this fact began to
 gain currency in the locality. Sumathi herself mentioned this
 to some of her friends and neighbours and also the fact that
 the first accused was responsible for the same. She also
 stated that if the first accused refused to accept her as his
 wife, she would go to his house and commit suicide by
 hanging. News of Sumathi's pregnancy came to the notice of
 her father PW 1. Though Sumathi had denied this to her
 mother, the parents were able to ascertain the fact through
 Sumathi's friends, particularly PW 5, who was her uncle's Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 170 daughter. Out of shame PW 1 left the house and this
 aggravated the feelings of Sumathi. She had disclosed the
 fact of her pregnancy to her friends PW 5 and 6; and to PW 8. She had also mentioned that the 1st accused was
 responsible for the same. 319. The first accused was away from the locality and when he
 was not to be seen for few days, Sumathi began to enquire
 about his whereabouts. She mentioned this fact to PW 10
 who mentioned it to PW 11. When the first accused
 returned, he came to know of the developments and also of
 Sumathi's talk with PW 10. On 25th January, 1953, the first
 accused met Sumathi on his way to Karottu junction. He
 consoled her and promised to take her to a separate house
 which he had arranged for her stay. On 27th January, 1953,
 the first accused again met Sumathi and told her to be ready
 to go to her new house. She left her house in the evening and
 waited for the first accused at the appointed place. At about
 8 p.m. accused number one and two came and took her to the
 forest reserve and murdered her. In para 6 of the
 pronouncement the court held- ―It was the prosecution case
 that the first accused wanted to do away with Sumathi
 because of her pregnancy through him. It was therefore a
 circumstance which had some proximate relation to her
 death.‖ The court held that her statement to the witnesses
 (PWs 5; 6 and 8) of her condition and of the person Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 171 responsible for it ―would be admissible in evidence under Section 32(1) of the Evidence Act as it would be a
 circumstance of the transaction that led to her death.‖ In
 support of this submission that the statement of Sumathi was
 so admissible in evidence, reliance was placed on AIR 1939
 PC 47 titled Narayanaswami v. The Emperor by the court. 320. Reliance has also been placed before us on the principle laid
 down by the Supreme Court in (1997) 4 SCC 161 titled Rattan Singh v. State of H.P. In this case, it was alleged
 that in the night of 6th July, 1982, when all the inmates of
 Kanta Devi's house were sleeping in the courtyard of the
 house, the deceased Kanta Devi cried out that appellant was
 standing there with a gun. During the trial, an issue arose
 with regard to this utterance by Kanta Devi. The
 pronouncement examined the question whether such
 statement is admissible under Section 32(1) or under Section
 6 of the Indian Evidence Act, as substantive evidence which
 can be acted upon with or without corroboration in returning
 a finding of guilt of the accused. The principles governing
 the admissibility of a statement made under Section 32(1) of
 the Indian Evidence Act have been authoritatively laid down
 by the Supreme Court in the following terms:- 13. Section 32(1) of the Evidence Act renders
 a statement relevant which was made by a person
 who is dead in cases in which cause of his death
 comes into question, but its admissibility depends
 upon one of the two conditions : Either such
 statement should relate to the cause of his death
 or it should relate to any of the circumstances of
 transaction which resulted in his death. 14. Three aspects have to be considered
 pertaining to the above item of evidence. First is
 whether the said statement of the deceased would
 fall within Section 32(1) of the Evidence Act so
 as to become admissible in evidence. Second is
 whether what the witnesses have testified in
 Court regarding the utterance of the deceased can
 be believed to be true. If the above two aspects
 are found in the affirmative, the third aspect to be
 considered is whether the deceased would have
 correctly identified the assailant? 15. When Kanta Devi (deceased) made the
 statement that appellant was standing with a gun Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 173 she might or might not have been under the
 expectation of death. But that does not matter.
 The fact spoken by the deceased has
 subsequently turned out to be a circumstance
 which intimately related to the transaction which
 resulted in her death. The collocation of the
 words in Section 32(1) "circumstances of the
 transaction which resulted in his death" is
 apparently of wider amplitude than saying
 "circumstances which cause his death". There
 need not necessarily be a direct nexus between
 "circumstances" and death. It is enough if the
 words spoken by the deceased have reference
 to any circumstance which has connection
 with any of the transactions which ended up in
 the death of the deceased. Such statement
 would also fall within the purview of Section 32(1) of the Evidence Act. In other
 words, it is not necessary that such
 circumstance should be proximate, for, even
 distant circumstances can also become
 admissible under the sub-section, provided it
 has nexus with the transaction which resulted
 in the death. In Sharad Birdhichand Sarda's
 case (cited supra) this Court has stated the above
 principle in the following words: 16. Even apart from Section 32(1) of the
 Evidence Act, the aforesaid statement of Kanta
 Devi can be admitted under Section 6 of the
 Evidence Act on account of its proximity of time
 to the act of murder. Illustration 'A' to Section 6 makes it clear. It reads thus: 17. In either case, whether it is admissible
 under Section 32(1) or under Section 6 of the
 Evidence Act, it is substantive evidence which
 can be acted upon with or without corroboration
 in finding guilt of the accused. 18. But then the court must be assured of the
 remaining two aspects i.e. reliability of the
 evidence and accuracy of the contents of the
 pronouncement...‖ 321. On the same aspect, reliance has been placed on the judicial
 pronouncement reported at ( 2002) 1 SCC 22 Patel Hiralal
 Joitaram v. State of Gujarat . In this case, on 21st October,
 1988, Asha Ben, the deceased was set ablaze at the time and Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 175 place mentioned in her statements. On 21st October, 1988
 itself a FIR was registered on the statement made by the
 deceased to the police officer (PW 10). In the meantime, the
 Executive Magistrate (PW 1) on being informed by the
 doctor who examined the lady, visited the hospital and
 recorded her statement around 11:15 a.m. The prosecution
 relied on the statement made by the deceased for establishing
 the identity of the culprit which included the statement given
 by her to her husband; to the Executive Magistrate and the
 police in the FIR. The defence challenged the identity of the
 assailant. The name of the appellant, his scooter number as
 well as name of his father-in-law were the three
 specifications indicating the identity of the appellant. The
 deceased expired 25 days after the incident on 15 th
 November, 1988. The prosecution placed sufficient material
 to show that the three identification features referred by her
 related only to the appellant. The statement made by the
 deceased woman in the FIR wrongly mentioned the second
 part of the name of the accused. This was clarified by her in
 a clarificatory statement made under Section 161 of the
 Cr.P.C. The Sessions Judge rejected the statements of the
 deceased. However, the High Court came to the conclusion
 that the trial court had grossly erred in rejecting these
 statements and concluded that the identity of the assailant
 had been unmistakably established as against the appellant. 322. The Supreme Court was called upon to consider as to
 whether the clarificatory statement made by the deceased to
 the Investigating Officer was admissible under Section 32 of
 the Evidence Act. It was further urged by the appellant that
 the statement under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. related only
 to the parentage of the accused and was, therefore,
 inadmissible under Section 32 of the Evidence Act. The
 Supreme Court observed that if the statement was held to be
 admissible under Section 32(1) of the Evidence Act, it would
 stand exempted from the prohibition contained in Section
 162 of the Cr.P.C.. So far as its admissibility under Section
 32(1) of the Evidence Act is concerned, the following
 discussion by the Supreme Court sheds light on the issue
 under consideration before us: The appellant had objected to the admissibility of the
 statements made by the deceased to PW 2 (her father); PW 3
 (her mother); and PW 5 (her brother) regarding harassment
 and demand of dowry either under Section 60 or 32 of the Evidence Act . 325. The Supreme Court was called upon to examine the
 statement attributed to the deceased which was made one
 month before her death to her mother. The statement was
 allegedly made by the deceased with regard to the taunts,
 demands for scooter, cash as well as teasing her for not
 meeting the demand of dowry within a couple of months
 before her death. It was held that these statements relate to
 the circumstances of the transaction which resulted in her
 death within the meaning of expression under Section 32(1) of the Indian Evidence Act and are therefore admissible in
 evidence. The discussion by the Supreme Court in paras 18,
 19 and 20 is relevant and reads as follows:- 20. The difference in the English law and the
 Indian law has been reiterated in Rattan
 Singh v. State of H.P. [(1997) 4 SCC 161 : 1997
 SCC (Cri) 525] and it has been held therein that
 even if the deceased was nowhere near
 expectation of death, still her statement would
 become admissible under Section 32(1) of the
 Evidence Act, though not as a dying declaration Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 181 as such, provided it satisfies one of the two
 conditions set forth in this section. The argument
 of Mr Sharma, therefore, that the evidence of PW
 4 and PW 5 regarding the statements made by the
 deceased before them are hearsay and are not
 admissible is misconceived.‖ 326. Mr. Dey, learned counsel for the Complainant has also
 placed reliance on the judgment reported at ILR (2010) MP
 2433, Sulabh Jain v. State of M.P. In this case a statement
 by a complainant made two and a half months before her
 death apprehending death at the hands of the accused was
 held to be admissible under Section 8 as well as Section
 32(1) of the Indian Evidence Act in their trial after she was
 killed. The relevant extract of the judgment deserves to be
 considered in extenso and reads thus:- 327. Reference is to be made to the decision of Fazal Ali, J. in Sharad Birdhichand Sarda v. State of Maharashtra , (1984)
 4 SCC 116 : 1984 SCC (Cri) 487 wherein, after referring to
 the decisions in Hanumant Govind Nargundkar v. State of
 Madhya Pradesh, AIR 1952 SC 343: 1952 SCR 1091; 1953
 CrLJ 129; Ratan Gond v. State of Bihar , AIR 1959 SC 18;
 1959 SCR 1336: 1959 CRLJ 108; Pakala Narayan Swami,
 AIR 1939 PC 47: 40 CR LJ 364; Manohar Lal v. State of
 Punjab , 1981 Cr LJ 1373 (P&H), it was held thus:- It is further submitted that the expression ―circumstances of
 the transaction‖ under Section 32(1) of the Indian Evidence
 Act are not as broad as the analogous use of the expression
 in circumstantial evidence which permits admission of
 evidence of all relevant facts and that it is narrower than res
 gestae. 331. In support of this objection reliance has been placed on the
 pronouncement of the Supreme Court reported at 1966 CAR
 281 (SC), Shiv Kumar and Others v. State of U.P. In this
 case, PW-1 Triveni Prasad has stated that the deceased Mata
 Prasad had told him before the occurrence that he had his
 meal earlier as he was going to Lakhimpur on tractor. This
 statement was held to be inadmissible under Section 32(1) of
 the Indian Evidence Act as a circumstance of the transaction
 which resulted in his death by the Supreme Court holding as
 follows:- (viii) Testimony of Nilam Katara - whether unreliable ? What
 constitutes „contradictions‟, „improvements‟ and
 „significant omissions‟? 341. Before the learned trial judges as well as before this court,
 the appellants have strongly canvassed the submission that
 Nilam Katara, mother of the deceased as well as Nitin
 Katara, brother of the deceased have made improvements in
 the court testimony over their statements recorded under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. which was reason sufficient for
 disbelieving these two witnesses. 342. We find that in the cross-examination of these witnesses they
 have only been confronted with their statements under Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 194 Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. in matters of detail. There is no
 cross-examination on their substantive evidence at all. 343. Before proceeding to examine the contentions laid by ld. senior counsels for Vikas and Vishal Yadav as well as ld.
 counsel for Sukhdev @ Pehalwan , it is essential to consider
 the scope of Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. This statutory
 provision empowers any police officer making an
 investigation under this Chapter, or any police officer not
 below such rank as the State Government to, by general or
 special order, prescribed in this behalf, acting on the
 requisition of such officer, to examine orally any person
 supposed to be acquainted with the facts and circumstances
 of the case. 344. Section 161(2) of the Cr.P.C. mandates that ―such person
 shall be bound to answer truly all questions relating to such
 case put to him by such officer, other than questions the
 answers to which would have a tendency to expose him to a
 criminal charge or to a penalty or forfeiture‖. 345. So far as the purpose for which such statements could be
 utilized, reference has to be made to Section 162 of the
 Cr.P.C. which permits use of statement only for inquiry or
 trial as per the procedure provided in the section. As per the
 explanation to Section 162 of the Cr.P.C. "an omission to
 state a fact or circumstance in the statement referred to in Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 195 sub-section (1) may amount to contradiction if the same
 appears to be significant and otherwise relevant having
 regard to the context in which such omission occurs and
 whether any omission amounts to a contradiction in the
 particular context shall be a question of fact." 346. The principles on this issue are well settled and stand
 reiterated by the Supreme Court in the judgment reported at
 AIR 2012 SC 3539, Shyamal Ghosh v. State of West
 Bengal placed by Ms. Ritu Gauba, APP wherein it has been
 stated as follows: Furthermore, whether such omission, variation
 or discrepancy is a material contradiction or
 not is again a question of fact which is to be
 determined with reference to the facts of a
 given case. The concept of contradiction in
 evidence under criminal jurisprudence, thus,
 cannot be stated in any absolute terms and has
 to be construed liberally so as to leave
 desirable discretion with the court to determine
 whether it is a contradiction or material
 contradiction which renders the entire
 evidence of the witness untrustworthy and
 affects the case of the prosecution materially.‖

 (Underlining by us) 347. Mr. Dey, learned counsel for the Complainant has
 extensively placed reliance on Section 145 of the Evidence
 Act to elaborate the purpose of, as well as the circumstances Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 198 in which, the previous statement of witness under Section
 161 of the Cr.P.C. can be used. It is urged that such
 statement can be used for cross-examining the witness for
 which purpose the witness is not required to be confronted
 with the previous statement. The second purpose for which
 the statement may be used is challenging the testimony of a
 witness as against his previous statement, in which case the
 previous statement must be put to the witness. 348. Mr. Dey has also argued that in order to contradict the
 witness in terms of Section 145 of the Indian Evidence Act,
 the previous statement has to be proved ―in accordance with
 law‖. The statement under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. has to
 be proved by questioning the investigating officer who has
 recorded the same as to what he called upon the witness to
 answer. It is pointed out that in the present case, no question
 at all was put to the investigating officer with regard to the
 statement of witnesses recorded by him under Section 161 of
 the Cr.P.C. The investigating officer was not questioned by
 the appellants as to what queries he put to the witnesses or
 their responses. 349. It has further been urged that the admissibility of the
 statement recorded under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. in
 evidence is prohibited under Section 162 of the Cr.P.C. Only
 such part of the statement with which the witness is
 confronted can be accepted. Learned counsel has urged that Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 199 there is no second part of Section 145 of the Evidence Act
 and therefore, it is not open to the appellant to argue that
 there are any improvements over or contradictions with any
 previous statement. 350. In this regard, Mr. Dayan Krishnan has placed the
 pronouncement of the Supreme Court reported at (2000) 4
 SCC 484, Jaswant Singh v. State of Haryana before us.
 The observations of the Supreme Court in paras 47 to 49
 with regard to the scope of Section 161 and 162 of the
 Cr.P.C. are material and read as follows:- box. 48. Now the Explanation to Section 162 provides that an omission to state a fact in the
 statement may amount to contradiction. However, the explanation makes it clear that the
 omission must be a significant one and Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 200 ―otherwise relevant‖ having regard to the
 context in which such omission occurs and
 whether any omission amounts to a
 contradiction in the particular context shall
 be a question of fact. 49. Reading Section 161(2) of the Criminal
 Procedure Code with the Explanation to Section
 162 , an omission in order to be significant
 must depend upon whether the specific
 question, the answer to which is omitted, was
 asked of the witness. In this case the
 Investigating Officer, PW 13 was not asked
 whether he had put questions to Gurdeep Kaur
 asking for details of the injuries inflicted or of
 the persons who had caused the injuries.‖

 (Emphasis supplied) 351. Given the prescription of Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. and the
 above enunciation of law, if the testimony of a witness is to
 be challenged on the ground that it contains improvements
 over the statement made by him under Section 161 of the
 Cr.P.C., it would be essential to question the investigating
 officers as to whether a question with regard to the same was
 put by him to the witness or not. In other words, the cross-
 examination of the investigating officer as to whether he had
 asked the witness about such matter is essential. In case he
 answers in the affirmative, only thereafter would it be open
 to the opposite party to successfully challenge a witness's
 statement as being an improvement over a statement Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 201 recorded by the investigating officer under Section 161 of
 the Cr.P.C. 352. Nilam Katara has categorically stated that she had answered
 all queries made by the investigating officer of her.
 Wheresoever she has been asked as to whether she told the
 investigating officer about the facts stated in her testimony,
 the witness has categorically stated that she had answered
 only the specific queries made by the investigating officer.
 At other places she has stated that the investigating officer
 did not ask her about a particular aspect and therefore, she
 did not tell him about the same. At several places, the
 witness has stated that she had made a reference to a
 particular event without giving the full details thereof. It
 would, therefore, appear that the witness did not volunteer
 information but has answered the questions put by the
 investigating officer. This is in consonance with the
 requirement of Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. 353. Nilam Katara has testified that she had informed the police
 about the address given by Bharti Yadav for the bank
 account with the BNP Paribas Bank account opened by her.
 Nilam Katara stated that she had told the police that Bharti
 was planning to tell her father about her intention to marry
 Nitish and that her brothers knew about the same, that they
 were averse to the same but she was confident that she
 (Bharti) would be able to convince her father. She also Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 202 stated that she had shown all the cards, letters album,
 bedsheet to the investigating officer but he chose only two. 354. We find that the trial court has noticed that in Nilam
 Katara's statement under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C.
 (Exh.PW-30/DA and DB) also it has been stated that her son
 Nitish was in love with Bharti and wanted to marry her; the
 witness and her family were agreeable to their marriage
 since Bharti loved her son and wanted to marry him; while
 Bharti's father Shri D.P. Yadav and her brothers Vikas and
 Vishal were not agreeable. 355. The testimony of Nitin Katara has been assailed only on
 confrontations with Exh.PW30/DA and DB. However no
 question was put to the investigating officer with regard to
 his queries to the witness while recording their statements
 under Section 161 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. 356. We have also been taken through the cross-examination of
 Anil Somania, the Investigating Officer in the present case
 who has recorded the statements of Nilam Katara and Nitin
 Katara under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. We have not been
 able to find a single question by the appellants to the
 investigating officer as to whether he had put questions to
 them with regard to the facts about which the witnesses
 testified in court, especially such portions of their statements
 under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. with which the witnesses Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 203 were confronted when under cross-examination. The
 statements under Section 161 Cr.P.C. were therefore shown
 to the witnesses by the defence for the purposes of pointing
 out contradictions and improvements without cross
 examining the investigating officer with regard to the queries
 made by him from the witnesses. 357. It is trite that in case the defence seeks to rely on any part of
 the testimony of a witness which is contradictory with a
 previous statement made by him, the witness has to be given
 an opportunity to explain the same. 358. In (2001) 10 SCC 6 titled Majid v. State of Haryana , the
 issue was whether the evidence of PW-6 Hasham could be
 contradicted with the evidence of DW-1 Jamaluddin unless
 at least the attention of PW-6 has been drawn to the fact that
 he had stated such inconsistent version to DW 1 ? The court
 held as follows: 359. It is contended on behalf of the appellants that testimony of
 Nilam Katara in court contains material improvements over
 her statement recorded in the First Information Report as
 well as her two statements (Ex.PW30/DA and
 Ex.PW30/DB). The learned Trial Judge has rejected this
 contention and concluded that the facts which she narrated in
 court are only explanations and elaboration of what she had
 informed to police in the FIR and her statements under
 Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. 360. Some of the precedents which shed valuable light on similar
 objections deserve to be considered and are considered
 hereinafter. So far as the contents of FIR are concerned, in a
 judgment of the Supreme Court reported at ( 2006) 10 SCC
 163 S. Sudershan Reddy and Ors. v. State of Andhra
 Pradesh , the court laid down the following:- State of U.P., which also noted the requirement of details in
 the statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C. in the following
 terms:- by a witness in the judgment reported at ( 2000) 8 SCC 457,
 Narayan Chetanram Chaudhary v. State of Maharashtra ,
 which reads as follows:- With regard to the statement recorded by the police, his
 mother PW 30 Nilam Katara has explained that her
 statement under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. was recorded two
 days after his cremation when she was under tremendous
 emotional pressure and tension. It is also in the statement of
 the witness that Nitish Katara's father was very ill at that
 time. The witness explained that there was certainly more
 clarity of vision in her mind and she could think sensibly
 when she was deposing in the court. 366. Faced with the huge influence of the family of the accused
 persons, she was apprehensive about the fairness of the
 investigation and was compelled to move first, the Supreme Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 208 Court by way of a writ petition and then this court by way of
 W.P.(Crl.) No.247/2002 on 27th of February, 2002 seeking
 court directions with regard to the investigation. This
 mother was not only struggling to ensure that the
 investigation proceeded in the right manner but at the same
 time was compelled to ensure that important evidence is not
 lost and is preserved without the mental space or the time to
 grieve over the tragic murder of her young son and at a time
 when she had not even cremated him. 367. Clearly any variance between the statement made by the
 witnesses to the investigating officer or to any other person
 and the testimony in court cannot be held to be in
 contradiction or an improvement in the eyes of the law
 unless it is shown that the same was put to the investigating
 officer and he rendered an explanation that the same was
 asked of the witness. This was not done by the appellants
 during trial and the testimony of the witnesses including
 Nilam Katara and Nitin Katara remains unchallenged. It is,
 therefore, not possible to hold that there are contradictions or
 improvements by Nilam Katara and Nitin Katara between
 their testimonies in court and their statements recorded under Section 161 of the Cr.PC. which could discredit their
 testimony in court. In our view, the learned Trial Judge has therefore, rightly
 concluded that in her testimony, Nilam Katara has merely Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 209 elaborated the contents of the FIR as well as upon facts
 stated in her statements recorded under Section 161 of the
 Cr.P.C. The evidence of Nitin Katara has also for the above
 reasons, been rightly accepted by the ld. Trial Judge. (ix) Conduct of Bharti Yadav on the 17th of February, 2002 and
 thereafter; her reactions, and utterances to Nilam Katara
 and Nitin Katara; conversations with Bharat Diwakar after
 Nitish Katara had been abducted and prior to anyone
 learning that he had been murdered 368. Mr. Dayan Krishnan, learned Additional Standing Counsel
 for the State as well as Mr. P.K. Dey, learned counsel for the
 complainant place extensive reliance on the evidence of the
 post abduction telephone calls and conversations between
 16th/17th February, 2002 between different persons before the
 body of the Nitish Katara was discovered and the
 admissibility in evidence of these conversations. 369. The phone records tell a story by themselves. They
 corroborate oral testimonies of witnesses and deserve to be
 considered in some detail. 370. The appellants have not challenged the relevance,
 admissibility, authenticity or correctness of the cell call
 records before us. Mr. Dayan Krishnan, learned Additional
 Standing Counsel has placed reliance on paras 150 and 151
 of the pronouncement of the Supreme Court reported at
 (2005) 11 SCC 600 (para 205) State (NCT of Delhi) v. Navjot Sandhu to contend that the requirements under Section 65(b) of the Indian Evidence Act had been complied
 with by the prosecution. 150. According to Section 63 , secondary
 evidence means and includes, among other
 things, ―copies made from the original by
 mechanical processes which in themselves insure
 the accuracy of the copy, and copies compared
 with such copies‖. Section 65 enables secondary
 evidence of the contents of a document to be
 adduced if the original is of such a nature as not
 to be easily movable. It is not in dispute that the
 information contained in the call records is stored
 in huge servers which cannot be easily moved
 and produced in the court. That is what the High
 Court has also observed at para 276. Hence,
 printouts taken from the computers/servers by
 mechanical process and certified by a responsible
 official of the service-providing company can be
 led in evidence through a witness who can
 identify the signatures of the certifying officer or
 otherwise speak of the facts based on his
 personal knowledge. Irrespective of the
 compliance with the requirements of Section 65- B, which is a provision dealing with admissibility
 of electronic records, there is no bar to adducing
 secondary evidence under the other provisions of
 the Evidence Act , namely, Sections 63 and 65 . It
 may be that the certificate containing the details
 in sub-section (4) of Section 65-B is not filed in
 the instant case, but that does not mean that
 secondary evidence cannot be given even if the
 law permits such evidence to be given in the
 circumstances mentioned in the relevant
 provisions, namely, Sections 63 and 65 . 151. The learned Senior Counsel Mr Shanti
 Bhushan then contended that the witnesses
 examined were not technical persons acquainted
 with the functioning of the computers, nor do
 they have personal knowledge of the details
 stored in the servers of the computers. We do not
 find substance in this argument. Both the
 witnesses were responsible officials of the
 companies concerned who deposed to the fact
 that they were the printouts obtained from the
 computer records. In fact the evidence of PW 35
 shows that he is fairly familiar with the computer
 system and its output. If there was some
 questioning vis-à-vis specific details or specific
 suggestion of fabrication of printouts, it would
 have been obligatory on the part of the
 prosecution to call a technical expert directly in
 the know of things. The following observations
 of the House of Lords in the case
 of R. v. Shephard [1993 AC 380 : (1993) 1 All
 ER 225 : (1993) 2 WLR 102 (HL)] are quite
 apposite: (All ER p. 231b-c)
 ―The nature of the evidence to discharge
 the burden of showing that there has
 been no improper use of the computer
 and that it was operating properly will
 inevitably vary from case to case. The
 evidence must be tailored to suit the
 needs of the case. I suspect that it will
 very rarely be necessary to call an
 expert and that in the vast majority of
 cases it will be possible to discharge the
 burden by calling a witness who is
 familiar with the operation of the
 computer in the sense of knowing what
 the computer is required to do and who
 can say that it is doing it properly.‖ Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 212 Such a view was expressed even in the
 face of a more stringent provision in Section 69 of the Police and Criminal
 Act, 1984 in the UK casting a positive
 obligation on the part of the prosecution
 to lead evidence in respect of proof of
 the computer record. We agree with the
 submission of Mr Gopal Subramanium
 that the burden of prosecution under the
 Indian law cannot be said to be higher
 than what was laid down
 in R. v. Shephard [1993 AC 380 : 371. The evidence of the cell phone records in the instant case
 therefore cannot be doubted. 372. The prosecution has proved the cell phone call records by
 examining the employees of the cellular phone service
 providers detailed below:- 373. The prosecution has proved the call records of Nitish
 Katara's cell phone 9811283641 (Exh.PW21/1) as well as
 those of Bharti 9810038469 (Exh.PW22/2). 374. Mr. P.K. Dey, ld. counsel for the complainant has also
 placed before us a tabulation of the calls reflected in
 Exh.PW-22/1, and Exh.PW-22/2. The above statement of
 Bharat Diwakar stands corroborated by the call records of
 Bharti Exh.PW-22/1, which have also been extracted by the
 learned Additional Standing Counsel. As per these
 documents, the extract of calls made on 17th February, 2002
 from and to Bharat Diwakar's mobile number 9810154964
 to and from Bharti Yadav on the cell no.9810038469, reads
 thus: 375. Exh.PW-22/2 reflects a call from the cell phone number
 9810038469 (Bharti's) to PW 25 Bharat Diwakar at the
 above number on 16th Feb-2002 at 17:20:59 hours (about
 05:21 pm) which call lasted for 15 seconds while he called
 up the same number at 19:00:46 hrs (about 07:00 pm), which
 call lasted 51 seconds. These calls were made before Bharat
 Diwakar proceeded to Shivani Gaur's wedding. 376. PW-25 Bharat Diwakar has further categorically testified
 that he had received a call from Bharti using cell phone
 no.9810038469 at about 4.06 a.m. on the 17th of February,
 2002 on his cell phone. Thereafter he received calls from
 Bharti on 17th February, 2002 on his mobile at 6.41 a.m.;
 6.55 a.m.; 7.18 a.m.; 8.08 a.m.; 8.18 a.m. and 8.43 a.m. As
 per the witness, all these calls were made by Bharti from her
 cell phone no. 9810038469. This testimony was not challenged by the defence and the
 witness has not been cross-examined on this statement at all. This documentary evidence proves that on 17th February
 2002, eight phone calls have been exchanged between
 Bharat Diwakar and Bharti Yadav starting as early as at
 4:06:34 hours to 21:37:04 hours lasting between 21 seconds
 to 192 seconds. It amply corroborates the oral testimony of
 the witnesses and demolishes Bharti and Bhawna Yadav's
 testimonies with regard to the cell phone. 377. Let us also examine the evidence of phone calls exchanged
 between Gaurav Gupta and Bharti Yadav as well. It is in the
 testimony of PW 26-Gaurav Gupta that he had come for
 Shivani's wedding from Faizabad and did not have roaming
 facility on his own phone. Gaurav Gupta had stayed with
 another friend Yashoman Tomar (PW 20) in Noida. As
 noted above Yashoman Tomar was using cell number
 9811220691. Gaurav Gupta has testified that he used this
 cell phone to make calls to Bharti on her cell number
 9810038469. This is again corroborated by the call details in
 Exh.PW 22/2 which shows that three calls having been made
 from Yashoman Tomar's cell number 981122691 on 17 th
 February, 2002 between 6:49:29 hours (06:49 am) to
 22:38:37 hours (10:38 pm) lasting 60 seconds; 11 seconds
 and 98 seconds respectively. 378. It is in the testimony of PW-30 Nilam Katara that she was
 using the mobile phone bearing no.9810206291 and that the
 landline nos. 3366629 and 3747555 were installed at her
 residence at 7, Chelmsford Road, New Delhi. This is also
 confirmed by the customer bill Exh.PW-22/1. 379. PW-30 Nilam Katara has testified that when her son did not
 return home, she took Bharti Yadav's cell number from
 Bharat Diwakar and called Bharti twice between 7 and 7.30
 a.m. on the 17th of February, 2002. Her testimony as PW 30
 in Vikas and Vishal Yadav's trial about her actions on the
 17th February, 2002 may be usefully extracted and reads
 thus: 380. Mr. Dey, learned counsel for the complainant has tabulated
 the calls made from or received by Nilam Katara's landline
 numbers 3747555 and 3366629 as well as those from her
 cell number 9810206299 from/to Bharti on the cell no. 9810038469 on the 17th and 18th of February, 2002 from the
 proven call record which shows the following:- Calls made by Incoming and Time and Tower location Call
Nilam Katara Outgoing to Date (Place/ID) Duration in
from her Mobile Bharti's Mobile Seconds
No. and vice versa No.9810038469
9810206299 Incoming 14:08 Hrs 142/Rajnagar 67
 17.2.2002 (GZD)
9810206299 Outgoing 20.11 Hrs 661/Faridabad, 220
 17.2.2002 Sector 15. 9810206299 Incoming 9:11 Hrs 661/Faridabad, 23
 19.2.2002 Sector 15. 9810206299 Outgoing 9:12 Hrs 57/Faridabad, 54
 19.2.2002 Sector 8. 381. PW-30 Nilam Katara has orally testified that PW-38 Bharti
 Yadav and she were constantly in touch with each other and
 that Bharti Yadav was calling her from the telephone
 no.9810038469. There is no cross examination of the
 witness on this testimony. The above testimony is thus
 amply corroborated on record in the trial by the established
 documentary evidence of the call records of the phone
 no.9810038469 for the month of February, 2002 proved on
 record as Exh.PW-22/1 and PW-22/2. The above extract
 establishes that Nilam Katara made the first call to Bharti
 from her landline as early as 6:17 am on the 17th of February,
 2002. Thereafter she has called at 6:40 am, 7:13 am, 7:33
 am, 8:04 am, 8:15 am, 8:18 am, 8:37 am and 8:50 am. The
 calls lasted from 37 seconds to 182 seconds. At 10:03 am
 Nilam Katara's call to Bharti has lasted 105 seconds. She
 has again called at 11:43 am and spoken for 67 seconds. These calls support her testimony about telling Bharti that
 she was going to seek police help. 382. The above tabulation from the call records also reflect the
 call from Nilam Katara's mobile no. 9810216299 to Bharti
 cell no. 9810038469 at 14:08:22(2:08 pm) on the 17th of
 February lasting 67 seconds. This piece of documentary
 evidence supports Nilam Katara's aforenoted oral testimony
 that she was at the PS Kavi Nagar from 11:30 am to 2:45 pm
 and that she had spoken to Bharti on her cell from the police
 station. 383. The call records also establish that after 14:08 hrs, calls were
 received by Bharti at Faridabad. Bharti has also called
 Nilam Katara's mobile number on the 17th February, 2002 at
 20:11 hrs (08:11 pm) and spoken for 220 seconds to her.
 One of the calls on Nilam Katara's landline received from
 Bharti is on the 18th of February, 2002 at 06:57 hrs (6:57 am)
 they have spoken for 597 seconds. They have again spoken
 at 7:30 am for 110 seconds and at 11:40 am for 143 seconds. 384. PW39-Nitin Katara stated in his testimony that ―when I
 called Bharti Yadav on 17.2.02 around 7.30/8 pm she
 appeared to be quite upset and she told me that she had last
 seen Nitish with Vikas Yadav and Vishal Yadav.‖ .....
 ―During the period 18.2.02 till 20.2.02 she called me on my
 mobile and once or twice on land line, at that time I was Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 222 having two land line connections bearing No.23747555 and
 23366629 at my residence. She was worried and she wanted
 me to contact everyone in her family and she stressed upon
 me to contact her father Sh DP Yadav. She also told me that
 I should not give time to DP Yadav otherwise he would made
 it a political gimmick. She cried several times on
 telephone.‖ 385. The prosecution has established that Nitin Katara was based
 in Pune and used two cell phones, one for Pune and another
 used for Delhi. 386. A similar tabulation of the calls made and received by Nitin
 Katara from and on his Pune mobile number 9822288216, to
 and from Bharti (using the cell phone no.9810038469) as per
 the proven call records reads as follows: 387. An extract of calls made and received from and on Nitin
 Katara's Delhi cell number 9811297136, to and from Bharti
 (on the cell phone no.9810038469) reads as follows: 388. Having noted the above, it is necessary to also examine the
 testimony of Bhawna Yadav (PW 42) which was recorded
 on two dates in the trial of Vikas and Vishal Yadav with
 regard to the cell phone no.9810038469. 389. So far as the mobile phone no.9810038469 is concerned,
 Bharti's sister PW-42 Bhawna Yadav has claimed that the Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 224 cell number 9810038469 was registered in her name at the
 address R-4/32, Raj Nagar, Ghaziabad, U.P. She further
 testified that R-4/32 was really the servant's quarter attached
 to the main house which was bearing number R-4/16 in
 Ghaziabad, U.P. and that the main house was owned by her
 father namely Shri D.P. Yadav. She offers no explanation as
 to why she registered the phone against the servant quarter.
 There can really be no reasonable explanation as to why a
 phone connection would be taken at the address of servant's
 quarter unless the intention was to prevent knowledge
 thereof to the property owner. This act itself indicates that
 though permitted to her sister and brothers, Bharti was not
 allowed use of even a cell phone and that, to prevent
 detection her sister had got her one using the servant
 quarter's address. 390. PW-38 Bharti has simply denied knowledge that phone no. 9810038469 was registered in the name of her sister at their
 residential address or she was using the same or any cell
 phone. She completely denied receipt of any phone calls
 from Bharat Diwakar, Nilam Katara, Gaurav Gupta or Nitin
 Katara. She claimed that she could not remember even the
 landline number of the telephone at her residence! 391. At the same time Bhawna Yadav (appearing as PW 42 on the
 9th of March, 2007 in her brother's trial) has stated that till
 16th February, 2002 evening, this cell phone was in her Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 225 exclusive possession and thereafter, while she was attending
 the wedding of Shivani Gaur, she had left the cell phone
 with her driver in the car which she collected from him
 sometime in the evening of 17th February, 2002. She further
 stated that her driver had received a single call from Nilam
 Katara on the phone on that day and she had returned the call
 to Nilam Katara in the evening of 17th February, 2002 from
 Faridabad. She denied making any calls from this mobile to
 Bharat Diwakar on 16/17th February, 2002 between 4 a.m. to
 10.30 p.m. The witness also denied receiving any calls from
 Gaurav Gupta during this period. 392. But Bhawna's lies stand caught out when the marriage video
 (Ex.PW42/1) was played during her testimony. In this video
 she has been filmed with a cell phone in her hand. A second
 cell phone was also handed over to her by her friend Lata in
 the video which has been noted by the trial judge. Bhawna
 Yadav still insisted that she had left her phone (a third
 phone) with her driver. 393. Interestingly Bhawna Yadav made all these categorical
 denials in the first part of her examination-in-chief on 9th of
 March, 2007. The Special Public Prosecutor sought leave to
 put leading questions to this witness with regard to cell
 numbers being used by her father, brother Vikas Yadav,
 husband Deepak Yadav. At this stage when the Special
 Public Prosecutor was putting these questions to her, Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 226 Bhawna Yadav did not let her testimony be concluded on
 this date and sought deferment on the ground that her child
 was unwell. Thereafter, it appears that better sense appears
 to have prevailed over this witness. She appears to have
 realized the fool hardiness of her denials when pitted against
 not only the oral testimony of the several prosecution
 witnesses, but also the documentary evidence of call records
 and the tower locations which identified where the cell
 phone no.9810034689 was located. Consequently in the latter part of her statement on 28th
 March, 2007, Bhawna Yadav changed her stand and, in
 contradiction to her prior evidence, now stated that she could
 not recollect how many times she and Nilam Katara had
 exchanged calls; whether she had called Bharat Diwakar
 from the said cell phone or how many calls have been
 received from Nitin Katara as well as Gaurav Gupta. 394. It is not the case of Bhawna Yadav that she was friends with
 either Bharat Diwakar or Gaurav Gupta. The duration of
 their calls to the cell number 9810038469 reflects that the
 party calling had conversation with the person answering the
 phone. The conversation has even lasted several minutes. 395. If the claim made by PW 42 Bhawna Yadav is accepted,
 then Exh.PW 22/2 reflects several calls having been made or
 received from Bharat Diwakar; Gaurav Gupta; Nilam Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 227 Katara; Nitin Katara when the phone was in the possession
 of Bhawna's driver. There is no reason at all why any of
 these persons would have had such frequent and long
 conversations with Bhawna Yadav's driver! 396. We therefore find from the above narration that as per
 Exhs.PW-21/1 and PW 22/2, after 11:00 PM: of the 16th of
 February, 2002: (ii) Nitin Katara exchanged 14 calls with cell phone
 no.9810038469 between the evening of 17 th February, 2002
 till the evening of 19th February, 2002 lasting between 16
 seconds to 233 seconds; (iii) Nilam Katara from her mobile phone (9810206299)
 exchanged two phone calls on 17th February, 2002 and two
 phone calls on 19th February, 2002 with Bharti on the cell
 phone no.9810038469. (iv) Apart from the above calls on the mobile, between
 6:17 am to 10:03 pm on the 17th of February, 2002, Nilam
 Katara made eleven calls on 17th February, 2002 (including
 five calls from her land line number 3366629 and six calls
 from her land line number 3747555) to cell phone
 no.9810038469 which lasted between 37 seconds to 182
 seconds. Again on 18th February, 2002, Nilam Katara made Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 228 four phone calls from her land line number 3747555 to
 Bharti on the cell phone no.9810038469 which ranged from
 66 seconds to 597 seconds (almost 10 minutes). 397. The only permissible conclusion from the evidence on
 record is that Bhawna does not recollect who or how many
 times calls were received on 9810038469 for the sole reason
 that this cell phone was never used by her but was with her.
 This cell phone was actually being used by her sister Bharti
 as testified by the several witness. 398. A perusal of the call records (Exh.PW-22/2) pertaining to
 9810038469 shows that at 15:42:37 on 16th February, 2002,
 a call was received on this cell phone from the cell
 no.9811283641 which was being used by Nitish Katara. 399. The call records of all the phone numbers of Nitish Katara; Bharti Yadav (cell phone no.9810038469); Bharat Diwakar
 and Yashoman Tomar clearly established that these phones
 were located in Ghaziabad on the night of 16 th/17th of
 February, 2002. 400. The electronic phone records coupled with the testimony of
 the representatives of the phone companies and service
 providers as well as that of the family members and friends
 of Nitish Katara belie the stand taken by Bharti and Bhawna
 Yadav. The unchallenged oral testimony of Bharat Diwakar;
 Gaurav Gupta; Nilam Katara; Nitin Katara and Yashoman Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 229 Tomar to the effect corroborated by the documentary
 evidence with regard to the call details and tower locations
 establishes beyond any doubt that Bharti was using the cell
 phone 9810034689. 401. The above discussion persuades us to hold that there is no
 error in the finding of the learned Trial Judge's that mobile
 phone no.9810038469 was being used by Bharti Yadav and
 she exchanged several calls with Nilam and Nitish Katara,
 Bharat Diwakar, Gaurav Gupta and Yashoman Tomar
 noticed by us hereinabove. (x) Regarding involvement of Vikas and Vishal Yadav - Spontaneous utterances by Bharti Yadav during the
 continuation of the transaction are admissible under
 Section 6 of the Evidence Act 402. It has been contended by Mr. P.K. Dey, learned counsel
 representing the complainant that the case of the prosecution
 was that all the appellants abducted the deceased Nitish
 Katara and murdered him. The case of the prosecution rests
 on circumstantial evidence and that the prosecution has
 proved all the circumstances which form a complete chain. 403. We now propose to examine the submission made by Mr.
 Dayan Krishnan, ld. Additional Standing Counsel for the
 State as well as Mr. P.K. Dey, ld. counsel for the
 complainant based on utterances attributed to Bharti in the Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 230 phone calls made shortly after Nitish Katara was found
 missing from the wedding venue and examine the relevance
 and admissibility of the same. 404. Ld. counsel have placed the evidence of Nilam Katara (who
 testified as PW 30 in Vikas and Vishal Yadav's trial)
 extracted above to the effect that at about 7:30 a.m. on the
 morning of 17th February, 2002 she had called Bharti (on cell
 phone 9810038469). During this conversation Bharti had
 questioned her as to whether the boys (that is, Bharat
 Diwakar (PW 25) and Gaurav Gupta (PW 26) had not told
 her (Nilam Katara) that Nitish had been taken away by her
 brothers. Nilam Katara has testified that Bharti Yadav had
 spontaneously uttered the words, without any kind of
 pressure or inducement. It is argued that this utterance was
 made by the real sister of Vikas Yadav and cousin Vishal
 Yadav who would certainly not falsely implicate her
 brothers. 405. The appellants on the other hand have contended that there is
 delay between Nitish Katara being taken away and Nilam
 Katara's utterance and that the same has to be rejected.
 Delay has to be considered not from the mere fact that a few
 hours may have passed since the time Nitish was taken away
 but the factual situation has to be examined in real terms. 406. Mr. P.K. Dey, learned counsel for the complainant has urged
 that when Bharti Yadav had blurted out that her brothers had
 taken Nitish Katara with them, the transaction of abduction
 was continuing. The transaction ended only upon
 apprehension of the appellants on 23rd February, 2002 at
 Dabra or in the alternative, only on 21st of February, 2002
 when the unknown dead body was identified as possibly that
 being of Nitish Katara by his mother Nilam Katara. The
 submission of learned counsel is that the evidence of the
 spontaneous utterances by Bharti Yadav on 17th February,
 2002 and thereafter were part of the same transaction and
 therefore admissible by virtue of Section 6 of the Indian
 Evidence Act. 407. Given the submission of learned counsel for the
 complainant, it is necessary to examine the provisions of Section 6 of the Indian Evidence Act dealing with relevancy
 of the facts forming part of same transaction as well as
 illustration A thereunder which reads as follows:- 409. In this regard reliance has been placed on the pronouncement
 of the Division Bench reported at AIR (33) 1946 Patna 40,
 Hirday Singh and Ors. v. Emperor wherein the court has
 held that ―it is not the distance nor the proximity of time
 which is so essential in order to consider which is „the same
 transaction‟, as the continuity of action and purpose‖. This
 case related to a dacoity and on the issue under
 consideration, the Division Bench observed that the
 ―carrying out of a successful dacoity, that is to say,
 successful not only in securing the loot but carrying it off,
 inevitably involves previous concert and planning; and
 continuity of action in carrying out the joint purpose can be
 said to continue until the stolen property has been
 successfully got away to the place of concealment. In the
 case before us the dacoits were intercepted while still Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 233 returning home with their booty. Some were arrested with
 the booty, and they were rescued, not by friends or
 sympathizers from their village, but by others of their
 number, who were returning behind them and who also had
 not yet reached home. In my judgment, from the time they set
 out on their expedition until they get safely home with their
 booty, everything done by the dacoits, which is directed,
 towards the successful completion of the crime, the getting
 away of the culprits, and the concealment of the booty, may
 fairly be described as part of the same transaction." 410. This pronouncement was followed by the Kerala High Court
 in the judgment reported at 1994 (2) KLJ 944 titled Ponnappan v. State . In this case, one Sukumara Kurup was
 believed to be the victim of a murder and a body was found
 in flames in a motor car inferno later it was revealed that the
 body was not of Sukumara Kurup, but of one Chacko to
 make a facade that he had been killed. Evidence was led of
 PW - 36 (who was close neighbour of Sukumara Kurup) to
 the effect that second accused had told PW-36 later that
 Sukumarakurup was alive. The appellant had challenged the
 admissibility of this evidence as being only hearsay evidence
 and a statement made by one of the accused. The court
 noted Section 14 of the Evidence Act as making facts,
 showing the existence of a state of mind such as knowledge,
 relevant when the existence of such state of mind is relevant. The said statement made by the second accused indicating
 his knowledge that it was not Sukumarakurup who was in
 flames in the car was undoubtedly relevant and therefore,
 was held to be admissible in evidence. 411. So far as present consideration is concerned, in Ponnappan (Supra), PW - 1 (an approver in the case) also deposed that
 when the deceased got into their car, he had told them of his
 identity as Chacko, a film representative hailing from
 Alleppey. These particulars were disclosed by the deceased
 when PW-1 asked him about it. This statement was also
 challenged on behalf of the appellant on the ground that this
 statement of the deceased would not fall within the ambit of Section 32 of the Evidence Act and would therefore, be
 inadmissible in evidence. The State had relied on Section 6 of the Evidence Act in support of its admissibility. 412. In the judgment authored by K.T. Thomas, J. (as his
 Lordship then was), the court had construed the expression
 ―transaction‖ as appears in Section 6 of the statue and
 observed thus- ―29. The word "transaction" in the section in
 its largest sense can be termed as the group of
 facts so connected together as to be referred to
 the crime itself. Whether a series of acts are so
 connected together as to form the same
 transaction is a question of fact. Proximity of
 time, continuity of action and unity of purpose Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 235 or design are factors governing the same
 question of fact. 30. A similar expression "to form the same
 transaction" was used in Section 235(1) of the
 Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898
 [corresponding to Section 220(1) of the
 present Code]. S.R. Das, J. (as he then was)
 speaking for a Division Bench of the Calcutta
 High Court has interpreted the said expression
 in Becharam Mukherji v. Emperor, A.I.R.
 1944 Cal 224, as purely a question of fact
 "depending on proximity of time and place,
 continuity of action and unity of purpose and
 design." Almost an identical expression can be
 traced in Section 223(a) of the present Code
 (which corresponded to Section 239 of the old
 Code). Jafar Imam, J. (as he then was)
 speaking for a Division Bench of the Patna
 High Court has interpreted it in Hirday Singh
 v. Emperor, A.I.R. 1946 Pat 40, as this: "It is
 not the distance nor the proximity of time
 which is so essential in order to consider
 what is 'the same transaction' as the
 continuity of' action and purpose". Their
 Lordships were considering the facts of a
 dacoity in which transaction took place even
 while carrying off the booty and that was also
 held to be part of the same transaction. We do
 not think that the said wider interpretation
 should not be imported to the expression "part
 of the same transaction" in Section 6 of the
 Evidence Act as well. 31. Statement made by the deceased to the
 culprits while he was taken inside the car
 disclosing his identity is a fact so connected
 with the fact in issue as to form part of the
 same transaction in that larger perspective. So Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 236 we hold that there is evidence to show that
 deceased himself divulged his identity as
 Chacko, the film representative from Alleppey.
 There is no reason to think that the deceased
 would have given a wrong identity as he had
 no cause for impersonating to be someone
 else.‖
 (Emphasis by us) 413. In the pronouncement of the Supreme Court reported at
 (2009) 13 SCC 80 Bhairon Singh v. State of Madhya
 Pradesh, the Supreme Court was considering the
 admissibility of oral evidence of PW-4 and PW -5 about
 what the deceased had said against the accused about the
 treatment meted out to her, so as to sustain the conviction
 under Section 498A of the IPC. 414. In this precedent, the accused persons stood acquitted of
 offences punishable under Section 304 B as well as 306 of
 the IPC . The trial court had held that the death of the wife
 (ten years after the marriage) was neither homicidal nor
 suicidal but accidental. However relying on the oral
 testimony of PW-4 and PW-5, the two brothers of the
 deceased, to the effect that after one year of gauna, she had
 been subjected to torture and harassment for dowry, the trial
 court had held that the accused was guilty of the offence
 punishable under Section 498A of the IPC and 30 of the Dowry Prohibition Act . In their deposition, PW-4 and PW-5 Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 237 stated that their sister told them that the accused was
 torturing him as he wanted her brothers to arrange a job for
 him or house at Ganj Basoda be given to him or Rs.1 lakh
 be given to enable him to do some business. They deposed
 that ―as and when their‖ sister came to the house she told
 them that the accused used to insert cloth in her mouth and
 give beatings for dowry. Apart from this statement, there
 was no other evidence of torture and harassment to the
 deceased. 415. The court therefore considered as to whether the statement
 attributed to the deceased could be used as evidence for
 returning the finding of guilt of the deceased for the
 commission of offence punishable under Section 498A of
 the IPC. The counsel for the State had placed reliance on Section 6 of the Evidence Act to submit that the statement
 would be admissible as res gestae. The court had considered
 the scope of Section 6 of the Evidence Act in the following
 terms:- 416. Learned counsel for the complainant has placed reliance on
 the commentary titled ―The Law of Evidence" (23rd Edition,
 2010) by Ratanlal and Dhirajlal wherein the expression
 ―transaction‖ appearing in Section 6 of the Evidence Act has
 been explained thus: [ Krishna Ram Das v. State , AIR 1964 ASSAM
 53]. Facts leading to the circumstances as to
 the nearness of the place, continuity of the act
 and the purpose or design have been
 considered as a part of the same transaction. [Babu Lal v. W.I.T. Ltd. AIR 1957 Cal 709; Kashmira Singh v. State , 1965 JK 37 ; Kridey
 Singh v. R., AIR 1946 Pat 40]. Where the children of the deceased
 were heard crying and saying that their mother
 was being killed, it was held that such
 statements of the children can be admitted
 under this Section. ( Sawal v. State , AIR 1974
 SCC 778)

 When a witness stated that he was told
 by other witnesses that the accused was
 beating the deceased at about the time of
 occurrence, it was held that such evidence was
 admissible as part of res gestae. [Badruddin v.
 State of Maharashtra 1981 CrLJ 729 (SC)].‖
 (Emphasis by us) 417. Mr. P.K. Dey, learned counsel for the complainant has also
 placed reliance on the American Jurisprudence Vol.29-A
 (2nd Edition) on the portion dealing with hearsay statements
 which are in the nature of excited utterances relating to any
 event or condition which may be admissible as a hearsay
 exception. In this regard in the Section 865 titled ‗Excited
 utterances', this hearsay exception has been explained thus: - W.C.L. v. People (Colo) 685 P2d 176; State v
 Sneed 327 NC 266, 393 SE2d 531.] In this
 regard, the Federal Rules of Evidence contain
 a hearsay exception for excited utterances.
 (FRE. Rule 803(2) Annotations : When is
 hearsay statement an ―excited utterance‖
 admissible under Rule 803(2) of the Federal
 Rules of Evidence, 48 ALR Fed 451). To
 come within the excited utterance exception to
 the hearsay rule, a statement must be a
 spontaneous declaration by a person whose
 mind has been suddenly made subject to an
 overpowering emotion caused by some
 unexpected and shocking occurrence, which
 that person had just participated in or closely
 witnessed, and made in reference to some
 phase of that occurrence which he perceived.
 (Commonwealth v. Blackwell, 343, Pa Super
 201 494 A2d 426)

 The basis for the excited utterance
 exception to the hearsay rule is that the
 perceived event produces nervous excitement,
 making fabrication of statements about that
 event unlikely. Since an excited utterance is
 made under the immediate and uncontrolled
 domination of the senses, rather than reason
 and reflection, and during the brief period
 when consideration of self-interest cannot be Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 242 fully brought to bear, the utterance may be
 taken as expressing the real belief of the
 speaker as to the facts just observed by him4.
 (People v. Fuelner (1st Dist) 104 III App 3d
 340, 60 III Dec. 87 432 NE2d 986). Whether a statement fits within the
 excited utterance exception to the hearsay rule
 is to be determined on the facts of the
 particular case. (Commonwealth v. Blackwell
 343 Pa Super 201 494 A2d 426). The
 exception applies only if (1) a startling event
 or condition occurred; (2) the statement was
 made while the declarant was under the stress
 of excitement caused by the event or condition
 (3) the statement relates to the startling event
 or condition. Generally, the sufficiency of the
 event or occurrence to qualify as the startling
 event is not questioned. The primary consideration for the trial
 court is whether the utterance is, because of
 the circumstances, reliable. However, courts
 have not attempted to confine the application
 of the excited utterance exception solely to
 indisputably reliable statements. Courts look
 primarily to the effect of a particular event
 upon the declarant, and, if satisfied that the
 event was such as to cause adequate
 excitement, the inquiry is ended [W.C.L. v.
 People (Colo) 685 P2d 176]. S. 866 Statements of present mental,
 emotional or physical condition
 Statements that shed light upon the
 declarant's then-existing mental, emotional or
 physical condition typically are admissible as
 an exception to the hearsay rule, and may be Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 243 offered to prove the declarant's condition. The
 subsequent conduct, or his intent, plan, or
 motive at the time the statement was made.‖

 (Emphasis supplied) 418. The excited utterances exception to the hearsay rules
 applicable in the United States of America has been
 explained as being similar to the Common Law res gestae
 exception (Ref: W.C.L. v. People (Colo) 685 P2d 176) 419. Our attention has also been drawn to Blackstone's Criminal
 Practice (1994) wherein also it was explained that res gestae
 or the common law exception to the hearsay rule in which
 admissibility depends on proof of the ‗close and intimate
 connection' between the exciting events in issue and the
 making of the statement, the theory being that the
 spontaneity of the utterance is some guarantee against
 concoction. The authors have relied on the several judicial
 pronouncements placed before us by Mr. Dayan Krishnan,
 learned Additional Standing counsel for the State which we
 have noticed above. 420. John Henry Wigmore in "Evidence in Trials At Common
 Law" (Volume 6) reiterates that for the declaration to be
 admitted as an exception to the hearsay rule, the declaration
 may be admissible even though subsequent to the Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 244 occurrence, provided it is near enough in time to allow the
 assumption that the exciting influence continued‖. 421. Learned counsel for the complainant has also placed reliance
 on the commentary by Archbold in „Criminal Pleading,
 Evidence and Practice - 2009‟ wherein Section 11 - 3 of
 (Chapter II) the author has considered Section 114 of the
 Criminal Justice Act, 2003. 422. We have been called upon to consider whether Section 6 of
 the Indian Evidence Act makes the spontaneous utterances
 by PW - 30 Bharti Yadav to Nilam Katara and Nitin Katara
 admissible in evidence. 423. Reliance has also been placed on Law of Evidence by Chief
 Justice M. Monir (15th Edition Vol 1) wherein it is
 authoritatively stated as follows:- Phipson Evidence, 14th Edn., P. 58). 14. Statements which are Admissible as
 Part of the Transaction are Substantive
 Evidence
 In English law, statements which become
 admissible as part of the transaction are not, in
 general, evidence of the truth of the matter
 stated. [Phipson Evidence, 14th Edn., P. 712]
 It is, however, submitted that, under the Act,
 such statements may be treated as substantive
 evidence, i.e., as evidence of the truth of the
 matter stated, inasmuch as the section does not
 in any way limit their relevancy to any
 particular purpose. 15. Statements which are a Part of the
 Res Gestae may be Admissible under Section 157 or Section 155
 A statement which is admissible under Section
 6 as a part of the transaction may also be used,
 under Section 157 or Section 155 , to
 corroborate or to contradict the testimony of its
 maker in Court. The place where a murder
 was committed was occupied by a number of
 persons besides the deceased and the eye- witnesses. The evidence showed that these
 persons came up immediately after the murder
 and it was alleged that they were informed by
 the eye-witnesses as to who the culprits were.
 It was held, that though those persons did not
 actually see the culprits, their evidence was
 material, not with a view to prove the actual
 fact of murder, which was in `issue', but to Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 247 prove the `relevant fact' that, just after the
 event, the eye-witnesses disclosed the names
 of the culprits to those who came there, this
 relevant fact being so connected with the fact
 in issue as to have necessitated the giving of
 evidence on that relevant fact itself. (Malendra
 Pal v. State, 155 ALL 323)
 Where the witnesses stated that they not only
 saw but also relied on the statements of other
 persons made immediately after the occurrence
 that the accused was the assailant, the Supreme
 Court ruled that even if it were taken that the
 witnesses relied on the statements of other
 persons made at the scene immediately after
 the occurrence, the evidence was admissible as
 that of a `relevant fact'(Jetha Ram v. State of
 Rajasthan, AIR 1979 SC 22 (para 1): (1978) 4
 SCC 425).‖
 (Underlining by us) 424. The commentary by Sarkar in the Law of Evidence extracts
 from judicial pronouncements and notes that the following
 has been held admissible as res gestae under Section 6 of the
 Evidence Act: ( Rameshwar Hembram v. State of W.B. 2002
 Cal CrLR(Cal) 276) Section 6 of the Evidence
 Act pertain to the principle of res-gestae which
 means, as per Law Lexicon, ―Things done, or
 liberally speaking the facts of the transactional
 the facts of a transaction explanatory of an act
 or showing a motive for acting; matters
 incidental to a main fact and explanatory of it;
 including acts and words which are so closely
 connected with a main fact as will constitute a
 part of it, and without a knowledge of which
 the main fact might not be properly
 understood, even speaking for themselves,
 though the instinctive words and acts of
 participants, not the words and acts of
 participants when narrating the events, the
 circumstances, facts and declaration which
 grow out of the main fact, and
 contemporaneous with it and serve to illustrate
 its character or those circumstances which are
 the automic and undersigned incidents of a
 particular litigated act and are admissible when
 illustrative of such act [ Vinod Kumar Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 249 Boderbhai v. State of Gujarat 1999 CriLJ 1650
 (1662) (Guj)]‖ 425. Reliance has also been placed by learned counsel on the
 pronouncement of the US Supreme Court reported at 418 US
 683 titled Richard M. Nixon v. United States. In this case
 subpoenas were issued directing production of tapes which
 were objected on the following grounds:- Conversely, if he considers that the statement
 was made by way of narrative of a detached
 prior event so that the speaker was so
 disengaged from it as to be able to construct or
 adapt his account, he should exclude it. And
 the same must in principle be true of
 statements made before the event. The test
 should be not the uncertain one, whether the
 making of the statement should be regarded as
 part of the event of transaction. This may
 often be difficult to show. But if the drama, Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 251 leading up to the climax has commenced
 and assumed such intensity and pressure
 that the utterance can safely be regarded as
 a true reflection of what was unrolling or
 actually happening, it ought to be received. The expression ‗res gestae' may
 conveniently sum up these criteria, but the
 reality of them must always be kept in
 mind; it is this that lies behind the best
 reasoned of the judge's rulings.‖

 (Emphasis supplied) 427. The pronouncement of the House of Lords reported at (1987)
 1 ALL ER 513 titled R v. Andrews as well as the judgment
 of the Court of Appeal reported at (1991) 1 ALL ER 232
 titled R v. McCay placed before us are in similar terms. 428. There is thus extensive discussion on whether the res gestae
 principle is an exception to the rule of hearsay in criminal
 proceedings. Phipson has considered three situations in
 which the res gestae principle may operate as an exception to
 the hearsay rule in criminal proceedings. The same include
 spontaneous statements made by a person so overpowered
 by an event that the possibility of concoction or distortion
 can be disregarded. 429. The exception to the hearsay rule contained in Section 6 of
 the Indian Evidence Act has fallen for consideration before
 Indian Courts as well. In this regard reliance was placed on
 the Division Bench pronouncement of Calcutta High Court Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 252 reported at AIR 1958 Calcutta 482, Chhotka v. State. In
 this case, two statements made by the two co-accused
 identifying the appellant as the assailant had been admitted
 in evidence. In appeal, the appellant objected that the
 statements of the bystanders and the co-accused were not
 admissible. The Court held as under:- 430. Learned counsel for the complainant has also submitted that
 the prosecution has established the existence of state of
 things. It is contended that the prosecution has fully
 established the fear in the mind of the public so far as the
 power and influence wielded by the accused persons and
 their family. It is urged that this Court is bound to draw an
 inference of the continuity of such influence and fear
 existing within reasonable time. 431. In this regard, reliance has been placed on the judgment of
 the Supreme Court reported at 1966 (I) SCR 758 titled Ambika Prasad Thakur and Ors. v. Maharaj Kumar Kamal
 Singh and Ors . ―...Now, if a thing or a state of things is shown
 to exist, an inference of its continuity within a
 reasonably proximate time both forwards and
 backwards may sometimes be drawn. The
 presumption of future continuance is noticed
 in Illustration (d) to s. 114 of the Indian
 Evidence Act, 1872. In appropriate cases, an
 inference of the continuity of a thing or state of
 things backwards may be drawn under this
 section, though on this point the section does
 not give a separate illustration. The rule that
 the presumption of continuance may operate
 retrospectively has been recognised both in
 India...‖ Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 254 432. To buttress the submission that spontaneous utterances are
 an exception to the hearsay rule. Mr. Dayan Krishnan,
 learned Standing counsel has placed reliance on the
 judgment reported at (1996) 6 SCC 241 titled Gentela
 Vijayavardhan Rao v. State of Andhra Pradesh and (2009)
 6 SCC 450 titled Javed Alam v. State of Chhattisgarh . 433. In (1996) 6 SCC 241 Gentela Vijayavardhan Rao and Anr. v. State of Andhra Pradesh, a judicial magistrate had
 recorded statements of PW-5 and PW-7 who had sustained
 burns in the incident and it was believed that as the others
 who had received burn injuries, they might succumb to the
 burns. These two witnesses had survived. The High Court
 had relied on their statements on the premise that ―it is
 relevant and admissible as res gestae under Section 6 of the
 Evidence Act‖. The question before the Supreme Court was
 whether the statements could be considered as res gestae and
 admissible as relevant under Section 6 of the Evidence Act
 whereby they became substantive evidence. In this regard,
 the court had observed as follows: The essence of the doctrine is that fact which,
 though not in issue, is so connected with the
 fact in issue "as to form part of the same
 transaction" becomes relevant by itself. This
 rule is, roughly speaking, an exception to the Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 255 general rule that hearsay evidence is not
 admissible. The rationale in making certain
 statement or fact admissible under Section 6 of
 the Evidence Act is on account of the
 spontaneity and immediacy of such statement
 or fact in relation to the fact in issue. But it is
 necessary that such fact or statement must be
 part of the same transaction. In other words,
 such statement must have been made
 contemporaneous with the acts which
 constitute the offence or atleast immediately
 thereafter. But if there was an interval,
 however slight it may be, which was sufficient
 enough for fabrication then the statement is not
 part of res gestae. In R. v. Lillyman [(1896) 2
 QB 167 : (1895-99) All ER Rep 586] a
 statement made by a raped woman after the
 ravishment was held to be not part of the res
 gestae on account of some interval of time
 lapsing between making the statement and the
 act of rape. Privy Council while considering
 the extent upto which this rule of res gestae
 can be allowed as an exemption to the
 inhibition against hearsay evidence, has
 observed in Teper v. R [(1952) 2 All ER 447]
 thus : 434. In the facts of the case, the Supreme Court found that there
 was some appreciable interval of time between the acts of
 incendiarism of which the appellants were accused and the
 judicial magistrate recording statements of the victims. The
 court held that the interval blocked the statements from
 acquiring legitimacy under Section 6 of the Evidence Act. 435. In the judgment of the Division Bench of the High Court of
 Chhattisgarh dated 20th March, 2006 passed in Crl.App.
 Nos.594/2000; 716/2000; 1239/2000 and 783/2005, Samar
 Vijay Singh Tomar and Anr. v. State of Chhattisgarh and
 connected appeals filed by co accused Samar Vijay Singh
 Tomar and Raj Kumar Tiwari. Soon after the incident, eye
 witnesses made statements to the doctor and the father of the
 deceased. However, in the witness box, they turned hostile
 on account of fear and threats by the accused. The issue Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 257 before the court was admissible under Section 6 of the
 Evidence Act as evidence res gestae 436. It is necessary to consider some facts in this case. The
 prosecution's case was that on 3rd December, 1998 Kumari
 Preeti Shrivastava, a student of B.A. Final in Government
 Girls College, Ambikapur was sitting with Kumari
 Vijaylaxmi Mishra PW-7, Kumari Seema Mishra PW-8 and
 Kumari Nisha Thakur PW-17 in the campus of the College
 since the second period was free. Her bag and tiffin were
 kept by the side of the road. Other girls were basking in the
 sun inside the campus. At about 10.45 A.M., a jeep driven
 by Samar Vijay Singh entered the college campus and
 crushing the bag and the tiffin of Kumari Preeti Shrivastava
 underneath, went ahead. Other appellants, that is, Rajkumar
 Tiwari, Javed Alam and Ganesh Kashyap were
 accompanying Samar Vijay Singh in the jeep. Seeing her
 tiffin and bag crushed by the jeep, Kumari Preeti Shrivastava
 decided that she would stop the jeep on its return and ask the
 driver to make good the loss and tiffin which had been
 crushed. She consequently stopped the jeep on its return and
 called upon Samar Vijay Singh to repair the tiffin and the
 bag for her. On this, the occupants of the jeep started
 laughing. The girls noticed that the occupants of the jeep
 were calling each other by names and thereby learnt the
 identities of the persons accompanying Samar Vijay Singh. Kumari Preeti refused to get out of his way when being
 asked to do so by Samar Vijay Singh failing which, he
 threatened to crush her under the jeep. The other co-accused
 exhorted him to crush Kumari Preeti if she did not give way.
 Upon this, Samar Vijay moved the jeep ahead and pushed
 Kumari Preeti who fell down. When the girls were about to
 move for picking up Preeti, Samar Vijay Singh reversed and
 then accelerated the jeep ahead, crushing Preeti's head under
 the jeep in the process and ran away with the co-appellants. 437. Kumari Vijaylaxmi PW-7, threw a stone on the jeep, which
 hit the bumper of the jeep. She noted down the number of
 the jeep on her palm. Kumari Lalita Yadav PW-6, attempted
 to hold one of the appellants but she was pushed and fell
 down. Kumari Vijaylaxmi noticed that the jeep had a "Vote
 for the Congress" sticker on its back number plate. The girls
 therefore, informed Assistant Professor Smt. Archana Singh
 PW-9 and Assistant. Professor Smt. Pratibha Singh PW-10
 about the incident who along with Kumari Lalita Yadav
 PW-6, Kumari Vijaylaxmi PW-7, Kumari Kumudini
 Kerkatta PW-4 and Kumari Urmila Paikra PW-5 took the
 injured Kumari Preeti to the District Hospital, Ambikapur. 438. The FIR was lodged by Tarachand Sahu PW-11, the clerk of
 the Girls College. Kumari Preeti was first examined by Dr.
 M.L. Beatrice PW-3, Chief Medical and Surgical
 Superintendent Holy Cross Hospital who was informed by Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 259 Kumari Vijaylaxmi PW-7 and Kumari Lalita Yadav PW-6
 about the incident whereupon in her report Ex.P-4, she wrote
 "Hit by jeep on the head and knocked down and passed over
 by front and back wheel of the jeep". 439. Shri R.L. Shrivatava PW-32, father of Kumari Preeti
 Shrivastava reached the hospital and inquire about the
 incident from the girls who were present there. He was
 informed by the girls about the names of the occupants and
 the driver of the jeep at the hospital as well as about the
 incident. The investigation further revealed that appellant
 Rajkumar had, soon after the occurrence, gone to Abhaydeep
 Singh PW-2 and told him that the Jeep driven by Samar
 Vijay Singh had dashed against a girl. Statement of
 Abhaydeep PW-2 was recorded under Section 164 of Cr.P.C
 which was exhibited on record as Ex.P-3. It appears that
 ASI Hardeep Singh PW-36 on 3rd December, 1998 had
 recorded the statements of Kumari Vijaylaxmi PW-7 and
 Kumari Lalita Yadav PW-6 under Section 161 of Cr.P.C. at
 the District Hospital which also gave an absolutely similar
 description of the incident and the manner in which they
 learnt the name of the driver and the occupants of the jeep. 440. In the witness box before the learned trial court, Kumari
 Vijaylaxmi PW-7 and Kumari Lalita Yadav PW-6
 suppressed the entire truth while Kumari Seema Mishra Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 260 PW-8 blurted out the same when she was declared hostile in
 cross-examination by the prosecutor. 441. Shri R.L. Shrivatava PW-32, in the witness box testified
 about the information received by him from the girls about
 the names of the occupants and the name of the driver of the
 jeep as well as the incident as part of res gestae and
 admissible under Section 6 of the Indian Evidence Act.
 Reliance was also placed on the information given by
 Kumari Vijaylaxmi PW-7 to Dr. M. L. Beatrice PW-3 which
 was recorded by her. Reliance was also placed on the
 statement of the girls recorded under Section 161 of the
 Cr.P.C. 442. The appellant had taken serious objection to the
 admissibility of the statement attributed as having been made
 by PW 6 and PW 7 to Shri R.L. Shrivatava PW-32, with
 regard to the information received by him to the following
 effect: 3 which was recorded in the report Ex.P-4 which
 contained the name of Kumari Vijaylaxmi PW-7 as
 the person giving the history of the incident. 443. The High Court found that Kumari Vijaylaxmi PW-7 was
 under fear while giving the evidence in court and did not
 have the courage to speak the truth. Kumari Seema Mishra
 PW-8 blurted out during cross-examination some traces of
 the truth which was labelled as unfair and dishonest cross-
 examination by the learned senior counsel for the appellants.
 The court held that the conduct of Shri R.L. Shrivastava PW - 32 in asking questions and making the inquiries from the
 girls who were outside the operation theatre was natural
 conduct of an anxious father and their response about the
 details of the incident and the identity of the boys was also
 spontaneous. 444. The High Court therefore, agreed with the view taken by the
 trial court that the statements made by the Kumari Lalita Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 262 Yadav PW-6 and Kumari Vijaylaxmi PW-7 to Shri R.L.
 Shrivastava PW - 32 were admissible under Section 6 of the
 Evidence Act as res gestae despite the fact that the girls
 turned hostile in the witness box since their statements were
 made to Shri R.L. Shrivastava PW - 32 soon after the
 occurrence when the girls were in a state of shock and there
 was not even the remotest possibility or even a thread of a
 chance of falsehood having crept in or their being tutored.
 There was no chance for concoction or improvement by any
 one at that juncture. The court also noted that the statement
 under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. of the girls was recorded at
 the hospital on 3rd December, 1998 itself. It was further
 noted that the utterances made by the above mentioned
 witnesses to Mr. R.L. Srivastava at the hospital was not only
 wholly unrebutted by the appellant in cross-examination but
 also inspired confidence. It was further observed that Shri
 R.L. Shrivastava would not have the slightest motive for
 implicating innocent persons and shielding the real culprits
 responsible for the murder of his daughter. 445. This matter was carried in appeal to the Supreme Court and
 which challenge was rejected by the judgment reported at
 (2009) 6 SCC 450 Javed Alam v. State of Chhattisgarh. The Supreme Court reiterated the principles laid down in its
 earlier pronouncement in ( 1996) 6 SCC 241 Gentela
 Vijayavardhan Rao and Anr. v. State of Andhra Pradesh to Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 263 the effect that Section 6 of the Evidence Act is an exception
 to the rule of evidence that hearsay evidence is not
 admissible. The test for applying the rule of res-gestae is
 that the statement should be spontaneous and should form
 part of the same transaction, ruling out any possibility of
 concoction. The court agreed with the above conclusion of
 the trial court and the Division Bench of the High Court with
 regard to the admissibility of the statements made by PW 6,
 PW 7 and PW 8 to PW 32. 446. The Supreme Court also noted that most of the so called eye- witnesses resiled from their statements made during
 investigation. The witnesses were classmates of the
 deceased who were with her at the time of her murder. The
 court observed in para 15 that it was a classic case of
 deficiency in the criminal justice system to protect the
 witnesses from being threatened by the accused; that
 unfortunately, in cases involving influential people the
 common experience is that witnesses do not come forward
 because of fear and pressure. 447. Reference has also been made to yet another judicial
 precedent reported at ( 1973) 1 SCC 471 R.M. Malkani v.
 State of Maharashtra wherein the court was concerned with
 the admissibility of a tape recorded conversation of a
 telephone call made by one Dr. Motwani to the appellant. In
 para 23, the court had observed as follows: - 448. In the instant case, the evidence of Nilam Katara with regard
 to Bharti's utterance on the 17th of February, 2002 is
 admissible as evidence of the facts relevant to the following
 issues:- 449. It is asserted that Bharti Yadav has also not made any such
 disclosure even in the statement attributed to her under
 Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. 450. In this regard, the Privy Council pronouncement reported at
 (1971) 3 ALL ER 801 at 805, (1972) A.C. 378 Ratten v. R.
 has been referred to which laid down a new approach. The
 appellant was charged with the murder of his wife by
 shooting her with a shotgun. He accepted that he had shot
 her, but his defence was that the gun had gone off
 accidentally, whilst he was cleaning it. There was evidence
 that the deceased was alive and behaving normally at 1:12
 p.m. and less than ten minutes later she had been shot. To
 rebut that defence, the prosecution called evidence from a
 telephone operator as to a telephone call which she had
 received at 1: 15 p.m. from the deceased's home. She said
 the call came from a female who sounded hysterical and who
 said ‗get me the police, please', gave her address, but before
 a connection would be made to the police station, the caller
 hung up. The appellant objected to that evidence on the
 ground that it was hearsay and did not come within any of
 the recognized exceptions to the rule against the admission
 of such evidence. The Judicial Committee held that the
 telephone operator's evidence had been rightly received.
 They concluded that the evidence was not hearsay, but was
 admissible as evidence of facts relevant to the following
 issues. First, as rebutting the defendant's statement that his
 call for the ambulance after he had shot his wife was the
 only call that went out of the house between 1:12 p.m. and
 the 1:20 p.m. by which time his wife was dead. Second, that Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 266 the telephone operator's evidence that the caller was a
 woman speaking in an hysterical voice and capable of
 relating to the state of mind of the deceased and was material
 from which the jury was entitled to infer that Mrs. Ratten
 was suffering from anxiety or fear of an existing or impeding
 emergency. In this judgment, Lord Wilberforce has stated
 the legal position thus: 451. So far as to what tests should be applied before such
 evidence is admitted, the circumstances and the manner in
 which such evidence must be examined was best stated by
 Lord Wilberforce (at page pp390-391 of Ratten) in the
 following terms: 452. After considering Scottish, Australian and United States
 authorities, Lord Wilberforce summarized the principle
 (which has been noticed by Phipson) as follows: 453. It was further emphasized that no general rule could be laid
 down and that it was a matter for the trial judge to decide
 whether such conditions existed that he may take the
 statement into account. 454. Phipson also refers to the judicial pronouncement reported at
 (1978) 66 Crl.App. R 252, R v. Nye and Loan in which Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 269 identification evidence with regard to the defendant was
 admitted as part of the res gestae. The court had asked and
 answered the following questions:- 455. It is trite that res gestae is an established exception to the
 hearsay rule. The question, therefore, which judges would
 pose are whether the evidence was relevant? Whether the
 statement was spontaneous without there being opportunity
 for concoction or distortion and whether there is a real
 possibility of error? We shall first consider the submissions
 of the appellants to the admissibility of the evidence of
 Bharti's utterance before reverting to this discussion. Objections of the appellants to the argument that the utterances of
Bharti Yadav in the morning of 17th February, 2002 were in
continuation of the transaction and admissible under Section 6 456. Mr. Sumeet Verma, learned counsel for the appellant has
 responded contending that the statement attributed to Bharti
 Yadav in the morning of 17th February, 2002 was not a part
 of the statements under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. of either Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 270 Nilam Katara (PW 30) or Ms.Bharti (PW 38). It is
 additionally urged that Bharti, appearing as a prosecution
 witness had categorically denied even having spoken to
 Nilam Katara. 457. It is submitted by Mr. Sumeet Verma, learned counsel for
 the appellant, that the challenge of the appellant to such
 statement is fortified by the fact that Bharti was cross-
 examined by the learned APP. Yet no suggestion was put to
 her that she (Bharti) had made any such statement or
 utterances to Nilam Katara. In the absence of such statement
 in the testimony of Bharti, no such statement can be
 attributed to this witness. 458. We have discussed at length heretofore the bald and absolute
 denial by Bharti of any interaction with Nilam Katara;
 Bharat Diwakar; Gaurav Gupta and Nitin Katara at any point
 of time and have found the denial to be untrue. In view of
 Bharti's denial to any phone contact, there is no question of
 her giving evidence with regard to such statement and the
 objection of learned counsel for the appellant based on
 Bharti's denial is unfounded. 459. So far as the confrontation of Nilam Katara with her
 statements under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. is concerned, we
 have noticed above that Nilam Katara clearly stated that she
 answered all questions which were put by the investigating Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 271 officer to her. She had also explained the circumstances in
 which her two statements under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C.
 were recorded. 460. Our attention has been drawn to the testimony of Nilam
 Katara in which she had stated that she did not remember if
 she had told police as to whether she had a talk with Bharti
 over the phone at about 7/7:30am or that she was very upset
 or that Bharti Yadav had told her that she had also been
 trying to contact Nitish on his cell phone and that she told
 her that Nitish had not come; or that she told her that she had
 also not been able to contact Nitish, except once on his cell. 461. Our attention has also been drawn to the fact that Nilam
 Katara was confronted with the portion of her statement
 under Section 161 (Ex. PW 30/DA-DB) where the facts were
 recorded in a different manner. It was mentioned that the
 witness contacted Bharti on the cell twice and told Bharti
 Yadav about the non-arrival of Nitish at his residence and
 her inability to contact him. It is also recorded that Bharti
 told Nilam Katara she also was unable to contact him and
 that she had no knowledge. The witness had already clarified
 in her examination-in-chief that once contact was made with
 Nitish but it was made by one out of his several friends but
 she did not know who made the contact. 462. We have noticed above the mandate of Sections 161 and 162 of the Cr.P.C. as well as the settled legal position that it is
 necessary to question the investigating officer with regard to
 the inquiry made by him under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C.
 from the witnesses. 463. The appellants in the instant case have not questioned the
 investigating officer who recorded the statements of the
 witnesses under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. at all as to the
 queries put by him to the witness(es). IO Anil Somania was
 not questioned by any of the appellants on what he queried
 from the witnesses. In this background, nothing would turn
 on the fact that any part of the evidence of a witness did not
 feature in the statement recorded under Section 161 of the
 Cr.P.C. Certainly, no finding can be returned that there was
 improvement in her testimony of the witness in this
 background. Nor is it permissible or possible to disbelieve
 Nilam Katara on the ground that this part of her testimony
 did not feature in her statements under Section 161 of the
 Code of Criminal Procedure. 464. So far as the objection of learned counsel for the appellant
 that no suggestion pertaining to the statement attributed to
 Bharti was put to Bharat Diwakar (PW 25) and Gaurav
 Gupta (PW 26) is concerned, the same is so obviously
 misconceived. Nilam Katara was examined as PW 30 when
 she testified about Bharti's utterances. Bharat Diwakar and Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 273 Gaurav Gupta appeared as PW-25 and PW-26 and had
 testified prior to her. There would have been no occasion
 therefore for putting such a statement by Nilam Katara to
 them. Even otherwise Bharti's utterance was in her
 telephonic conversation with Nitish's mother. 465. It has lastly been submitted by Mr. Sumeet Verma, learned
 counsel for the appellant that the transaction of the offence
 had ended with the death of the deceased, which as per the
 prosecution case, was in the early hours of 17th February,
 2002. The submission is that, therefore, the alleged
 utterances of Bharti to Nilam Katara as well as the statement
 attributed by Nitin Katara are at grossly belated stages and,
 therefore, cannot be treated as a res gestae evidence under Section 6 of the Evidence Act. Discussion 466. Bharti made a statement to the police on 2nd March, 2002
 (Exh.PW35/AB) that after Nitish was taken by the appellants
 from the wedding she made several calls to her residence to
 track all of them but was unsuccessful. This statement is
 corroborated by the call records (Exh.PW 22/2) wherein
 several calls have been made to her residential land lines
 from the cell no.9810038469. Bharti would be most
 interested in ensuring the well-being of Nitish whom she
 cared for deeply. Certainly his mother Nilam and brother Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 274 Nitin Katara would be the other persons who would be as
 concerned, if not more, in assuring Nitish's safety. 467. The tabulation of the calls between Bharat Diwakar's mobile
 phone no.9810154964 and mobile phone no.9810038469
 used by Bharti shows that she made phone calls to him in the
 very early hours of the morning of 17th February, 2002. The
 call record also shows that the first of such calls was made
 from Bharti Yadav's mobile at 04:06 hrs which lasted 21
 seconds. Thereafter between 06:41 hrs to 08:43 hrs on the
 17th February, 2002, there were six phone calls which lasted
 from 7 seconds to 123 seconds. 468. The tabulation of the phone calls shows that on the 17 th of
 February, 2002 when Nitish Katara went missing, there were
 eleven calls between Nilam Katara's landline number and
 Bharti Yadav's phone between 06:17 hrs to 11:53 hrs. The
 duration of the calls varied from 37 seconds to 182 seconds.
 Additionally there were calls on the cell phone between
 Nilam Katara and Bharti on the 17th of February, 2002 which
 lasted from 67 seconds to 220 seconds. The call records
 extracted above also show that there were several calls on
 the 18th and 19th of February, 2002 between Nilam Katara's
 phone numbers and the phone number which Bharti Yadav
 was using. 469. Exchange of phone calls at 4.00 am or 6.00 am is not a
 normal event, especially when these calls are being
 exchanged between friends, that too of not the same gender. 470. The timing and frequency of these calls between Bharti on
 the one hand and Nilam Katara as well as Bharat Diwakar on
 the other reflects Bharti as distraught with anxiety and
 extremely agitated about the well-being of Nitish Katara
 after he was taken from the wedding venue by her brothers
 and Sukhdev Pehalwan as she was aware about her brother's
 disapproval of her relationship with him. 471. Bharti had her first conversation with Nilam Katara at 7:30
 a.m. on the 17th February, 2002. At that time Nitish Katara
 was not returned home from the wedding and his mother was
 desperately trying to ascertain his whereabouts. Neither
 Bharti nor Nilam Katara had even begun to suspect that
 something so wrong may have happened to him. 472. We have above considered the evidence in detail and
 rejected Bharti's testimony that she did not use any cell
 phone or that she did not speak to Nilam or Nitin Katara or
 Bharat Diwakar at all on the 17th of February, 2002. 473. Bharti Yadav's outburst when Nilam Katara called her in the
 morning of 17th February, 2002 was a completely
 spontaneous and natural reaction of a person to disclose to
 the mother the truth about Nitish, she deeply cared for, Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 276 having been taken away. Bharti Yadav was by then frantic
 with anxiety as is evident from her unsuccessful efforts to
 locate her missing brothers as well. 474. The prosecution has led evidence agitated of Bharti's state in
 the later part of the 17th February, 2002 as well when Nitish
 was still missing. PW 39- Nitin Katara (brother of Nitish
 Katara) has also testified that on 17th February, 2002 at
 about 7:30/8:00 p.m, he had telephoned Bharti from Pune
 and that Bharti Yadav appeared to be quite upset and told
 him that she had last seen Nitish Katara with the appellants.
 Bharti Yadav was in a distracted state of mind and wanted
 Nitin Katara to contact everyone in the family. Bharti
 emphasized that Nitin should contact her father Shri D.P.
 Yadav and cried several times on the phone. 475. We now examine the question whether the utterance was
 during the continuance of the ‗transaction' is required by Section 6 of the Evidence Act. It is the prosecution case that
 the utterances by Bharti were made to Nilam and Nitin
 Katara when the transaction of abduction was continuing as
 Nitish was believed to be alive and only missing. As per
 Nilam Katara, she finally left her residence for physically
 searching for him at the marriage venue and lodged the
 police complaint at PS Kavi Nagar between 11:30 am and
 12:00 noon. FIR No.192/2002 was registered under Section
 364 of the IPC on 17th February, 2002 at 11:30 a.m. Despite Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 277 the search launched for them by the police neither the
 accused brother's nor the appellant were traceable at all
 known addresses. 476. On 17th February, 2002 an unidentifiably badly burnt corpse
 unknown body was discovered by the police station Khurja.
 PW 35 S.I. Anil Somania received a phone call from SI C.P.
 Singh of the PS Khurja (PW 4) only on 19th February, 2002
 with regard to the recovery of an unknown dead body. This
 body was identified on 21st February, 2002 by the
 complainant Nilam Katara as possibly being that of her son
 Nitish Katara. Therefore, till the 21st of February 2002,
 everybody believed that Nitish Katara was alive and simply
 missing. 477. The appellants Vikas Yadav and Vishal Yadav who were
 arrested in a case under the Arms Act only on 23rd February,
 2002 by police Dabra, District Gwalior, M.P. were
 absconding. 478. PW 25 Bharat Diwarkar was not cross-examined on his
 testimony on the possession of the mobile phone
 no.9810154964; or on his testimony about the phone calls
 made by him or received by him from Bharti. 479. We find that PW 30, Nilam Katara PW 39 Nitin Katara were
 not cross-examined on the issue that there was no phone
 calls between them and Bharti Yadav. There is also no Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 278 cross-examination to the effect that Bharti Yadav did not
 make any statement or that she did not utter the words
 attributed to her. No suggestion was given to them that
 Bharti was not using the mobile number 9810038469. It was
 never put to them that they spoke to Bhawna Yadav and not
 to her sister Bharti. 480. To accept the objections of the appellants that there was
 delay in Bharti's utterance rendering it prompted and not
 spontaneous, would result in a travesty of justice. It would
 be contrary to human conduct and normal unfolding of
 events. 481. The conversation between Nilam Katara and Bharti as well
 as Nitish Katara and Bharti Yadav were proximate to the
 occurrence and a spontaneous reaction to the query about
 Nitish by Nilam Katara from her. Neither Nilam Katara nor
 Bharti Yadav knew that Nitish Katara had been murdered by
 them. These conversations thus took place during the
 continuation of the transaction of abduction of the deceased
 Nitish Katara during which period the appellants were also
 absconding. The above utterances of Bharti Yadav were
 unprompted, contemporaneous and also reflect the state of
 her mind. The evidence of Bharti's spontaneous utterance is
 admissible as evidence res gestae under Section 6 of the
 Indian Evidence Act. (xi) E-mails sent by Bharti Yadav to Nitin Katara after the 17th
 of February, 2002 482. Apart from the utterance by Bharti to Nilam Katara, it is also
 in evidence that Bharti Yadav sent a series of e-mails to
 Nitin Katara between 19th and 24th of February 2002 contents
 whereof reflect her distraught state of mind; tension about
 Nitish's well-being as well as her brother's involvement in
 his not being traceable. 483. Nitin Katara has testified that in February, 2002, he was
 using e-mail i.d.: [email protected] . He
 further stated that between 19th to 24th February, 2002, he
 received five e-mails from Bharti Yadav using her e-mail
 i.d.: [email protected] . These e-mails have been produced
 on record as Exh.PW-9/Mark A-1 to A-5 during his
 testimony. Bharti refers in these mails to Nitish by his pet
 name Chimpu. She refers to Nitin Katara as ‗chottu'. The
 contents of these e-mails reflect the extreme anxiety of the
 sender about Nitish and also the fact that she was
 corresponding secretly with Nitin. 484. These e-mails also manifest that Bharti had been confined at
 some place and not permitted to interact by her family. Even
 on the 20th of February, 2002, Bharti wrote that she hoped to
 see Nitish soon. She did not know even on 24th February,
 2002 that Nitish had been murdered in the morning of the Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 280 17th of February, 2002. These e-mails speak for themselves
 and read thus: 485. Nitin Katara was extensively cross-examined on the e-mails
 Exh.PW-9/A-1 to A-5 but the defence could not shake his
 testimony. 486. Nitin Katara reaffirmed that he had handed over the e-mails
 which were received by him to the police. He denied the
 defence suggestion that the e-mails marked Exh.PW-9/ Mark
 A-1 to A-5 were forged or fabricated or that they were not
 handed over during investigation to the police. The
 investigating officer completely failed to investigate into the Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 285 matter to establish that these mails were actually sent by
 Bharti Yadav. 487. These mails if proved in accordance with law would fortify
 our conclusion that so far as Bharti, Nilam Katara and Nitish
 Katara are concerned, on the 17th of February 2002, Nitish
 stood abducted which transaction, even on had not come to
 an end. (xii) Bharti Yadav‟s statement under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. 488. Before proceeding in the consideration, it is necessary to
 notice the statement of Bharti Yadav recorded by IO Anil
 Somania PW-35 on 2nd March, 2002 under Section 161 of
 the Cr.P.C. i.e. during investigation as it revealed critical
 facts for the first time and enabled the police to make
 headway into the investigation. 489. Bharti appeared as PW-38 in Vikas Yadav's trial. She was
 found resiling from the above statement recorded on 2nd
 March 2002 (Exh. PW-35/AB) under Section 161 of the
 Cr.P.C. by SI Anil Somania during investigation. She was
 permitted to be cross-examined by the Special Public
 Prosecutor. She had quibbled over recording of her
 statement by the police during investigation when, in answer
 to the question by the Special Public Prosecutor as to
 whether she had made a statement to the police, she stated
 that one of the lady police official had a ‗conversation' with Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 286 her but she did not know whether it was reduced to writing.
 In her cross-examination, she testified that after 3/4 days of
 Shivani Gaur's marriage, she was interrogated by the police
 with regard to the present case. She further stated that
 whatever ‗they' asked her, she had replied. She stated that
 she did not ‗know' if it was reduced to writing. This is
 contradicted by her as she volunteered that she had not read
 her statement which clearly shows that her statement had
 been reduced to paper. At a later place, when questioned
 that her statement was recorded by the police on 2 nd March,
 2002, Bharti Yadav replied that ‗I do not know if it was my
 statement to the police but I did have conversation with the
 police but I do not remember the date when this conversation
 took place'. Of course, she insisted that she never had
 conversation with Anil Somania, the Investigating Officer in
 the present case and that she had only a conversation with
 the lady police! 490. While being cross-examined on 29th of November 2006 by
 Shri B.S. Joon, Special Public Prosecutor for the State she
 stated that she must have lodged some complaint with some
 higher authorities that her brothers were being falsely
 implicated. She admits that she had sent these complaints
 through her uncle Bharat Singh to various authorities. Her
 counsel handed over a photocopy of a complaint
 (Ex.PW38/X1). Bharti was unable to produce any proof of Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 287 dispatch of this complaint to any of the authorities
 mentioned thereon, i.e., DGP Police, Headquarter Lucknow
 or the Governor of UP; SSP Ghaziabad or the SO P.S. Kavi
 Nagar, Ghaziabad. 491. The complaint itself bears no date. On the first page of the
 complaint there is receipt of one photocopy of the complaint
 with some initials which are dated 25th March, 2002. This
 receipt of the photocopy does not reflect the authority on
 whose behalf the person has received it. By this
 communication, Bharti had only wanted a copy of her
 statement recorded by the police. 492. The prosecution and learned counsel for the complainant
 have heavily relied upon the admission of the witness in para
 2 of Ex.PW38/X1 as she admits therein that she had made a
 statement to the police on 2nd March, 2002 and she has only
 sought copy of the statement recorded by the police on 2 nd
 March, 2002. 493. The learned Trial Judge has elaborately considered the
 statement made by Bharti Yadav under Section 161 of the
 Cr.P.C. We may note certain essential revelations therein
 which actually triggered off investigation into aspects which
 were not known to the police prior thereto. The several facts
 revealed in Bharti's statement (Exh.35/AB) several them for
 the first time, can be usefully summed up as follows: (xxxiii) She also gave a statement about her contact with
 Nitin Katara (the younger brother of Nitish Katara)
 including their e-mail ids. (xxxiv) Bharti Yadav also disclosed that on 16th February,
 2002, she had received a call from Nitish‟s phone
 no.9811283641 on her mobile no.9810038469 at
 about 3:00 pm when he had said that since they were
 going to meet at the wedding, they would talk there
 and that they would stay together at the wedding.
 (xxxvi) Her „mami‟ (mother‟s brother‟s wife), wife of Shri
 Bharat Yadav knew the facts about her relationship
 with Nitish Katara. (xxxvii) Her „bua‟ (father‟s sister) had also come to know
 about the same. She had told them that she loved
 Nitish. They had all said that after the elections, they Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 292 will place the wedding proposal before Shri D.P.
 Yadav. 494. Prior to her statement on 2nd March, 2002, the police had no
 details about the identity of Pehalwan disclosed by Vikas
 Yadav and Vishal Yadav as their accomplice in the crime. It
 is Bharti Yadav who disclosed that the Pehalwan was named
 ‗Sukhdev'; and that he was a resident of Dewaria and also
 that he was an employee in the liquor business of their
 family at Bulandshahr. It is only because of this revelation
 that the police has effected raids in Bulandshahr on the very
 next day, i.e., the 3rd of March, 2002 and were able to
 recover the guarantee card disclosing his address and
 photograph. All efforts to arrest him proceeded from this
 information. 495. In Exh. PW-35/AB Bharti also corroborated the disclosure of
 the accused persons that they had come to the wedding in a
 Tata Safari vehicle. The phone calls referred to in her
 statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C. (Exh. PW35/AB) are all
 corroborated from the documentary evidence of the call
 record. Several other details noted above have been
 investigated by the police and stands proven during trial
 from the other evidence brought on record. 496. The Investigating Officer Anil Somania has categorically
 stated that he had recorded the statement of Bharti Yadav Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 293 under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. (Ex.PW 35/AB) at her
 residence 4/16, Raj Nagar, Ghaziabad in the presence of a
 lady S.I. Anju Bhadoria as well as Shri D.P. Yadav, father of
 Bharti Yadav. It has been established that the statement
 stands recorded in the case diary. The investigation was
 subjected to contemporaneous judicial scrutiny. The
 material testimony of the Investigating Officer Anil
 Somania, so far as faithfully recording of statement Ex.PW
 35/AB remains unchallenged. The above narration would
 show that Bharti Yadav had actually made the statement
 ExhPW35/AB and resiled therefrom in court only to assist
 her brothers from prosecution. 497. The learned trial jugdes have concluded that Vikas and
 Vishal Yadav were averse to the relationship between their
 sister Bharti Yadav and Nitish Katara and this provided the
 motive leading to the commission of the offence. It has been
 held that Sukhdev @ Pehalwan shared the same motive. In
 the light of the above detailed discussion, we agree with the
 findings of the learned trial judges in the judgment dated 28 th
 May, 2008 and 6th July, 2011. II Disclosures made by Vikas and Vishal Yadav on the 25th
 of February, 2002 to the Investigating Officer - whether
 believable? The discussion on this subject is being considered under the
 following sub-headings: 498. Mr. U.R. Lalit as well as Mr. Ram Jethmalani, ld. senior
 counsel have contended that two separate disclosure
 statements were made by the appellants to the Investigating
 Officer. The first disclosure statement made on 25th
 February, 2002 is attributed to Vikas Yadav (Exhibit PW-
 35/16) which led to the recovery of a hammer at his instance.
 A second disclosure statement (Exhibit PW-35/17) stands
 attributed to Vishal Yadav as having been made on the same
 day about inter alia a wrist watch and mobile, leading to
 recovery of only the wrist watch. The police also rely upon
 the recovery of the Tata Safari. 499. In this regard, Mr. Lalit, learned senior counsel has pointed
 out that PW-35 Sub-Inspector Anil Somania obtained transit
 remand of the accused persons on 24th February, 2002 from
 the court at Dabra (Ex PW 35/13) and brought them to
 Ghaziabad. Mr Lalit's contention is that the statement of Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 295 Anil Somania that he did not talk to the accused persons
 while they were in transit is unbelievable. 500. The accused persons were produced in custody on 25th
 February, 2002 before the Chief Judicial Magistrate in
 Ghaziabad when they were remanded to judicial custody.
 SO Anil Somania thereafter made an application on 25th
 February, 2002 to the court of the Chief Judicial Magistrate,
 Ghaziabad (Exh.PW-35/15) praying for permission to record
 their statements. 501. It is the case of the prosecution that on the 25 th of February,
 2002 SI Anil Somania proceeded to the jail where, first,
 Vikas Yadav made a disclosure statement (Exh.PW-35/16)
 followed by the disclosure statement made by Vishal Yadav
 (Exh.PW-35/17). The statements were recorded in the room
 of the DSP. Neither of the statements was signed by the
 accused person to whom it is attributed. 502. So far as the disclosure statements are concerned, Mr. U.R.
 Lalit senior counsel for Vikas Yadav has further submitted
 that though the disclosure statement was recorded in the
 office of the DSP Jail, his counter signatures were not taken
 which would have established his presence when the
 statements were recorded. 503. It is submitted by the counsel for the accused that the
 contents of the two disclosure statements (Ex PW 35/16 and Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 296 Ex PW 35/17) were identical, except for few cosmetic
 changes. If the disclosures were actually made, the conduct
 of the IO would be different. No steps as per prescribed
 procedure from the stage of recording of disclosures till
 sending recovered articles for a forensic examination have
 been taken. 504. It is urged that the alleged statements were never made by
 the two accused persons. It is further submitted that the
 contents of the statements attributed to these appellants are
 in the nature of confessions which were made while they
 were in police custody and are hence inadmissible in
 evidence given the prohibition under Sections 24 to 27 of the
 Indian Evidence Act. 505. Learned senior counsel have also submitted that these
 statements were completely inadmissible on account of the
 prohibition contained in Sections 161 and 162 of the Cr.P.C.
 Learned senior counsel points out that Section 162 prohibits
 the police from obtaining signatures of the person making a
 statement to the police. Mr. Ram Jethmalani, learned senior
 counsel has urged that Section 162 of the Cr.P.C. has been
 wantonly disobeyed; that statements recorded under Section
 161 of the Cr.P.C. have been exhibited in full and read as
 substantive evidence. The objection is that findings of fact
 in vital areas have been based only on the police statement, Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 297 consideration whereof stood prohibited under Section 162 of
 the Cr.P.C. 506. Mr. Jethmalani, learned senior counsel would contend that
 the first disclosure statement attributed to Vikas Yadav made
 the disclosure about everything and therefore the police had
 discovered all facts therefrom. Learned senior counsel
 submits that both the disclosure statements talk of acts of
 both the accused persons. Learned senior counsel has
 contended that the recoveries were effected three days after
 the making of the disclosure statements, the delay
 manifesting that no disclosures were made and that the
 recovery was not genuine. 507. In support of the same contention, learned senior counsel has
 also relied upon para 14.27 of the CBI (Crime) Manual
 2005 published by the Government of India. This manual of
 the year 2005 frames guidelines applicable to the CBI. 508. Mr. Jethmalani, learned senior counsel has also relied upon
 para 19 of the pronouncement reported at ( 2005) 9 SCC 94
 State of Punjab v. Ajaib Singh in support of his submission
 which reads thus: 509. It is further urged that in the event that there are more than
 one disclosure statements by multiple accused persons which
 have led to one and the same discovery, only the disclosure
 made in the statement which is first in point of time would
 be admissible. In this regard, learned counsel has placed
 reliance on the judgment reported at (1994) 5 SCC 152
 Sukhwinder Singh etc v. State of Punjab. 510. We propose to examine the objections to the disclosure
 statements in seriatim hereafter. (i) There was delay in recording of disclosures - rendering it
 suspect 511. It has been argued on behalf of the appellants that the
 accused persons were arrested on 23rd February, 2002 by the Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 299 Dabra police and were alleged to have made the detailed
 disclosures with regard to the commission of the offence
 only on 25th February, 2002 which was most illogical and
 really impossible. 512. To deal with this submission, it is necessary to examine what
 the Investigating Officer was doing after the 23rd of February
 2002. Answering this objection of delay taken by the
 appellants, Mr. Dayan Krishnan has taken us through the
 testimony of the Investigating Officer Anil Somania (PW- 35) who has explained the several steps which were
 necessitated and taken by the police till the disclosure
 statements made by the appellants were recorded. This
 statement of Anil Somania has not been challenged by the
 appellants by way of cross-examination. 513. Let us examine these steps undertaken by the police. It is in
 evidence that PW-35 Anil Somania received information
 from police station Khurja on 19th February, 2002 of the fact
 that an unidentified dead body had been recovered in its
 jurisdiction on the 17th of February 2002. He therefore
 proceeded to Khurja at 9:00 pm on the 19th of February 2002
 but was unable to meet Inspector C.P. Singh. As the
 deceased as well as Vikas and Vishal Yadav were
 untraceable, he thereafter went to Udyog Vihar, Gurgaon to
 search for them as the accused had an office there. Anil
 Somania also learnt about the sugar mill belonging to the Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 300 accused persons in Mukeria (Punjab) and a farm house in
 Dhanari (UP). In order to search for the appellants, he sent
 his SO, A.P. Bhardwaj to the farm house. 514. On 20th February, 2002, the Investigating Officer went to the
 houses of the accused persons in their search but the houses
 were locked. The Investigating Officer then moved an
 application for issuance of proceedings under Section 82 / 83 of the Cr.P.C. for attachment of their property. He also
 obtained warrants for their arrest and pasted them at the
 houses of the accused persons. On the same day, the
 Investigating Officer recorded statements of Nitin Katara
 and Rohit Gaur under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. 515. On 21st February, 2002, the IO hereafter contacted Nilam
 Katara, Ajay Prasad and Nitin Katara and went to the
 mortuary to identify the dead body. After seeing the body,
 Smt. Nilam Katara identified the body as being that of her
 son from his one hand which had not got burnt. The
 Investigating Officer then made an application to the CJM,
 Bulandshahr to seize the dead body and brought the dead
 body to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). 516. On the 22nd of February, 2002, the Investigating Officer got
 the blood samples of the parents of the deceased taken as
 well as the finger prints of the deceased. These were
 imperative for identification of the dead body and Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 301 confirmation thereof. The I.O. then went to the licensing
 authority to get the said finger prints of the deceased. He
 also went to the SSP, Ghaziabad and to get a copy of the
 wireless message sent to the immigration office. On the
 same day, the Investigating Officer seized some photographs
 and greeting cards which were produced by Nilam Katara. 517. On the 23rd of February, 2002, Vikas Yadav and Vishal
 Yadav were arrested by the police in Dabra at 4.30 a.m.
 Interestingly, the Dabra police produced these two appellants
 before the local magistrate only at about 11.30 p.m. on 23 rd
 February, 2002 and sought their judicial custody. 518. On the 23rd of February, 2002, itself the Investigating Officer
 Anil Somania learnt through television that the accused
 persons Vikas and Vishal have been arrested in Dabra.
 Accordingly on instructions he made a police party and left
 for Dabra. On reaching there, Anil Somania learnt that the
 accused persons had been taken for production before the
 Judicial Magistrate. The Investigating Officer immediately
 moved an application before the Magistrate not to release the
 accused persons on bail.(Ex.PW 35/11). On 24th February, 2002, the Investigating Officer recorded
 the statements of the police officials at Dabra and applied for
 a two day transit remand. Upon the application (Ex.PW
 35/13) being approved, the custody of accused persons could Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 302 be secured by the Investigating Officer only at about 3.30
 pm on 24th February, 2002. The application referred to the
 FIR No.192/2002 registered under Section 364 of the IPC by
 the P.S. Kavi Nagar and abduction (‗apaharan') of Nitish
 Katara against the appellants. A reference has been made to
 Case No. 99/2002 and 192/2002 both under Section 25 of the
 Arms Act, Section 41(1)(4) of the Cr.P.C. registered at
 Dabra. 519. The appellants moved an application before the Dabra Court
 wherein they mention Section 302 of the IPC. As on that
 date, the Police Station at Ghaziabad had registered FIR No.
 192/2002 only under Section 364 of the IPC. Section 302
 was added only on 26th February, 2002. Mr P.K.Dey, learned
 counsel for the complainants has urged that this suggests that
 the appellants, being the authors of the crime, were aware of
 the murder of Nitish Katara, even before the police learnt of
 it. 520. It is further in the testimony of the Investigating Officer that
 he had started from Dabra on 24th February, 2002 at 3.30
 p.m. and reached the O.P. (Outpost) Kachehari on 25th
 February, 2002 at about 5 a.m. 521. Anil Somania has categorically stated that there was no
 opportunity to interrogate the accused persons in Dabra and
 that he did not talk to the accused persons with regard to the Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 303 case or interrogate them as in Uttar Pradesh no statement can
 be recorded without permission of the Magistrate when the
 accused are in custody. This testimony has not been
 challenged in cross-examination by the appellants. It has not
 been disputed before us as well. 522. The accused persons were produced in the court of CJM,
 Ghaziabad on the 25th of February 2002 at about 10 a.m.
 who remanded them to judicial custody. PW-35
 Investigating Officer Anil Somania also moved an
 application on the same day under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C.
 (Ex.PW-35/15) for permission to record the statements of
 Vikas and Vishal Yadav. 523. On getting permission from the CJM for recording the
 statement of the accused persons, the Investigating Officer
 S.O. Anil Somania proceeded to Ghaziabad jail on 25th
 February, 2002 itself and requested the jail authorities to
 produce the appellants before him for the purposes of
 interrogation. The appellants were so produced before the
 Investigating Officer, who recorded the information
 furnished by the appellants one after another in the case
 diary itself. He had first recorded the voluntary disclosure
 statement of Vikas Yadav and thereafter the voluntary
 statement made by Vishal Yadav. 524. It is evident from the above that till such time the accused
 persons were arrested and the dead body recovered by the
 Khurja police identified, the entire effort and energy of the
 Investigating Officer and the police was rightly devoted to
 tracing out Nitish Katara and the appellants. The
 Investigating Officer was required to follow due process.
 The appellants do not dispute the requirement that court
 permission was required to record their statements as they
 were under arrest. The permission was granted on the 25th of
 February 2002 and the statements recorded on the same date.
 There was therefore no delay at all in interrogating the
 accused persons or recording their statements. The above
 narration and discussion also supports the prosecution that
 such statements were actually made by Vikas and Vishal
 Yadav. (ii) Disclosure statements must be disbelieved as they are
 neither signed nor bear thumb impression of the makers 525. Learned Senior Counsels submit that in the present case the
 disclosure statement is not signed by the accused persons nor
 bears their thumb impressions and, therefore, must be
 completely disbelieved. Learned senior counsel submit that
 this is not correct as signature lends acceptability. Once a
 signature is taken, voluntariness is assured. Considering the
 antecedent events, learned Senior Counsels contends that it
 would have been prudent to obtain signatures of the accused. It is contended that therefore there is no satisfactory material
 at all to show that the disclosure statements were voluntarily
 made by the accused persons or that they were genuine. 526. In support of this submission reliance has been placed on
 the pronouncement reported in AIR 1995 SC 2345,
 Jaskaran Singh v. State of Punjab. The narration of the
 relevant portion of the facts contained in para 2 and the
 principles laid down by the Supreme Court in para 8 deserve
 to be considered in extenso and they read as follows:- 527. Before us, reliance has been placed by Mr. U.R. Lalit,
 learned senior counsel also on the Division Bench
 pronouncement of the Karnataka High Court reported at
 1998 Criminal Law Journal 2479, Felix Joannas v. State of
 Karnataka. In this case, apart from the recovery of a shoe
 lace on the voluntary statement of the accused, there was no
 material to connect the accused with the crime. The
 Division Bench placed reliance on the judgment of the
 Supreme Court in Jaskaran Singh (supra) and held that the
 confession of the accused was not signed by him and,
 therefore, could not be relied upon. 528. Mr. Lalit, Advocate has placed the pronouncement of the
 Supreme Court reported at ( 2003) 9 SCC 277, Golakonda
 Venkateswara Rao V. State of Andhra Pradesh before us.
 In this case, neither the disclosure statement nor the recovery
 memo bore the signatures of the accused. The Supreme
 Court observed that the provisions of Section 27 of the
 Indian Evidence Act are based on the view that if a fact is
 actually discovered in consonance with the information
 given, some guarantee follows thereby that the information
 is true and consequently the said information can safely be
 allowed to be given as evidence because if such information
 is further fortified and confirmed by the discovery of articles
 or the instrument of crime and which leads to the belief that
 the information about the confession made is to the articles Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 307 of crime, then it cannot be false. In this case, pursuant to the
 disclosure, the appellant took the party to the well and
 disclosed that the body had been thrown into it. The water
 level in the well was of about 6½ feet. The body was
 recovered with the help of swimmers when plastic bangles
 and a jacket as well as the cement pole piece kept to prevent
 the body from floating was also recovered. Thereafter, the
 accused led the party to a place towards the western side of
 the nearby shed and dug out a spot from where pieces of
 ‗lehenga‟ were recovered. 529. It has been urged by Mr. U.R. Lalit that in a given case the
 prosecution may be able to establish the making of a
 disclosure by evidence other than the signature or by thumb
 impressions of the accused person. It could be by the
 evidence of panchas who were present at the time of the
 making of the disclosure. Placing reliance on Jaskaran
 Singh (supra), learned counsel for the appellant has also
 contended that the disclosure statement inspires no
 confidence because the disclosure statements do not bear the
 signature or the thumb impression of the appellant. 530. At first blush, the judgment rendered in Jaskaran Singh
 (supra) would appear to suggest that it is an absolute
 proposition of law that a disclosure statement has to
 mandatorily contain the signature or thumb impressions of
 the person making it. The entire submissions of learned Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 308 senior counsels for both Vikas and Vishal Yadav rest on
 such reading of the requirement in law. This however, is not
 the correct legal position. Our attention has been drawn by
 Mr. Dayan Krishnan to a suo motu review by the Supreme
 Court of the afore-noticed judgment dated 25th April, 1995 in Jaskaran Singh v. State of Punjab passed in Criminal
 Appeal No. 472/1985. By its order dated 25th April, 1996,
 the Supreme Court reviewed the portion highlighted in the
 extract reproduced in the previous paragraph of the
 Jaskaran Singh (supra) and ordered as follows: - 531. With regard to the same objection that there were no
 signature on the disclosure statement, our attention has been
 drawn to the pronouncement reported at 1996 Cri LJ 350,
 Bhakua Kampa v. State of Orissa wherein it was held as
 follows: 532. We may usefully refer to the judgment in Golakonda
 Venkateswara Rao v. State of A.P. (2003) 9 SCC 277
 wherein these very objections were not accepted by the court
 holding thus:- The observation of this Court was in that
 context. In the instant case, as already noticed,
 the recovery is pursuant to the disclosure
 statement offered by the appellant. The fact
 that the recovery is in consequence of the
 information given is fortified and confirmed
 by the discovery of wearing apparel and
 skeletal remains of the deceased which leads Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 312 to believe that the information and the
 statement cannot be false.‖
 (Emphasis supplied) 533. Law in fact, contains an embargo under Section 162(1) of
 the Cr.P.C. whereby the police is prohibited from obtaining
 the signatures of the person making the disclosure statement.
 Mr. Dayan Krishnan has placed reliance on the Division
 Bench pronouncement of the Madras High Court in 2003
 CrLJ 2372, Natrajan v. UT of Pondicherry. In this case,
 placing reliance on the suo motu review in Jaskaran Singh
 (supra), the court held that the Investigating Officer was not
 required to obtain signatures of the accused persons in any
 statement attributed to him while preparing the seizure
 memo. The Madras High Court also noted that the bar to
 obtaining signatures on statements recorded during
 investigation under Section 162 of the Cr.P.C. would not
 apply to the statement under Section 27 of the Indian
 Evidence Act. Reliance was placed on the judicial
 precedent reported at 1999 Crl. L.J. 2588, State of
 Rajasthan v. Teja Ram . It was therefore held that as a
 result, though there is no requirement to obtain signatures of
 the accused on the disclosure statement, however, if Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 313 signatures have been obtained, there is nothing illegal about
 it. 534. Mr. Dayan Krishnan, learned additional standing counsel for
 the State submits that judicial precedent has held that law
 does not mandate obtaining signatures of the accused even
 on seizure memos. 535. In this regard reliance is made to the ratio of the decision of
 the Supreme Court in paras 29 and 30 of ( 1999) 3 SCC 507,
 State of Rajasthan v. Teja Ram which reads as follows: - memo for the recovery of any article
 covered by Section 27 of the Evidence Act. But if any signature has been obtained by
 an investigating officer, there is nothing
 wrong or illegal about it....‖
 (Underlining by us) Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 314 536. On the same issue, in 2012 ( 8) SCALE 670, Dr.Sunil
 Clifford Daniel v. State of Punjab , the court reiterated the
 principles laid down in the Teja Ram (supra). After
 referring to the earlier pronouncement, the court held as
 follows: - 537. It is urged by Mr. Dayan Krishnan that the objection pressed
 by the appellants is devoid of legal merit as there is no
 requirement also to formally record the disclosure in writing.
 It could be oral as well. On this aspect, in the judgment
 reported at (2011) 13 SCC 621 (para 120), Mohd. Arif v.
 State, the court held as follows: - 538. Such being the position in law, the challenge to the
 disclosure in the instant case on the ground that they are not
 signed has no legal basis. On this issue, in Mohd. Arif v.
 State of NCT (supra), it was held as follows: - (Underlining by us) 539. The objection of the appellants is also no longer res integra
 and stands authoritatively settled by the Supreme Court of
 India in the judgment reported at (2005) 11 SCC 600, State
 v. Navjot Sandhu in para 207, wherein it was held as
 follows: - Inspector Mohan Chand Sharma on
 16th December, 2001. It is marked as
 Ext.PW64/1. In the said disclosure statement,
 all the details of his involvement are given and
 it is almost similar to the confessional
 statement recorded by the DCP. The last
 paragraph of the statement reads thus: This statement has been signed by Mohd. Afzal. In fact it is not required to be signed by
 virtue of the embargo in Section 162 . The fact
 that the signature of the accused Afzal was
 obtained on the statement does not, however,
 detract from its admissibility to the extent it is
 relevant under Section 27 .‖ 540. Of course, recovery of a material fact on the pointing out of
 the accused person premised on the disclosure will lend
 weight to the credibility of the disclosure. 541. Section 162 of the Cr.P.C. specifically stipulates that no
 statement by any person to a police officer in the course of
 investigation, if reduced to writing, shall be signed.
 However, this prohibition does not apply if the statement
 would be covered under Section 27 of the Evidence Act.
 There is no mandatory requirement under Section 27 of the
 Indian Evidence Act that the disclosure must be signed. 542. Therefore there is no absolute proposition that every
 disclosure statement has to be disbelieved if it is unsigned or
 does not bear the thumb impression of an accused. The rule
 requiring procurement of signatures is really a rule of safety,
 prudence and propriety only. The signing of the disclosure
 statement is only one of the indicators of the voluntariness of Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 320 the statement. It is open to the prosecution to show that the
 disclosure was actually and voluntarily made by other
 evidence as well. 543. There is no prescribed mode for recording of the disclosures
 under Section 27 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, as has
 been provided under Section 164 of the Cr.P.C. or even
 under Section 15 of the Terrorist and Disruptive Activities
 (Prevention) Act, 1987. 544. Law permits that a disclosure statement may be oral or in
 writing. It is also unnecessary that at the time of the
 disclosure, there must be formal arrest. It would suffice that
 the movements of the person making the disclosure were
 under control of the police officer recording the disclosure. 545. The truth of the making of a disclosure statement lies in the
 credibility of the investigating officer who enters the witness
 box to prove the fact that such disclosure was voluntary
 made by an accused person while under police custody
 and/or control. 546. It is also lawful that the information furnished by the person
 in custody can be recorded by the investigating officer in the
 case diary. This was the requirement in the State of Uttar
 Pradesh. There is also no requirement to have the same
 signed in the case diary. 547. Let us now examine the facts of the present case in the light
 of the above legal position. It is an admitted position before
 us that in Uttar Pradesh investigating officer had to make an
 application for taking the accused to police custody from
 judicial custody to record their statement. The submission of
 the appellants is that they were in police custody when their
 statements were recorded. 548. In the instant case, the investigating officer was given
 permission to interrogate the accused persons by the court of
 the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Ghaziabad. The investigating
 officer thus recorded their statements on the 25 th of
 February, 2002 which were in the nature of statements under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C., in the case diary. That the
 statements included disclosures of the above facts cannot
 negate requirements of statutory compliances. In view of Section 162 of the Cr.P.C., these statements could not have
 been got signed from the accused persons. 549. We have noted above the fact that the appellants Vikas and
 Vishal Yadav did not challenge the making or voluntariness
 of the disclosure statements during trial. Instead, when the
 investigating officer prayed for police custody remand to
 effect recoveries pursuant thereto, they filed applications
 seeking permission for their advocates to accompany them
 during the proceedings. They nowhere denied the making of
 the disclosures to SO Anil Somania. It was never stated that Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 322 they did not use the Tata Safari vehicle or that the police was
 falsely attributing the disclosure statements to them. The
 objection thus pressed before this court is a clear
 afterthought, which is contrary to record and legally
 untenable. The proceedings of the court, the applications
 filed by these appellants and their conduct amply establish
 the fact that the disclosure statements were actually and
 voluntarily made by Vikas and Vishal Yadav. 550. The investigating officer Anil Somania has been examined
 in the witness box who has testified that he was given
 permission by the C.J.M., Ghaziabad for recording statement
 of the accused persons. The statements were made
 voluntarily without any force, pressure or undue influence in
 the jail itself. He first recorded statement of accused Vikas
 Yadav and then of accused Vishal Yadav. He proved the
 disclosure statement of Vikas Yadav on record as
 Ex.PW35/16 and the statement of Vishal Yadav as
 Ex.PW35/17. He also stated that all statements under Section 161 of Cr.P.C. and all other proceedings have been
 recorded in case diary only and not on a separate sheet as in
 UP police where he is in service all statements are recorded
 in case diary. He stated that all statements have been
 correctly recorded by him. 551. This testimony could not be shaken in cross examination. Nothing has been pointed which would impact the credit Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 323 worthiness of the police witnesses or the prosecution
 evidence. 552. It has come in the evidence of the investigating officer Anil
 Somania that normal practice in Uttar Pradesh was not to
 get signatures of the accused persons on disclosure
 statement. This position is also not disputed. 553. After the transfer of the case to the District Courts in Delhi,
 Vikas Yadav and Vishal Yadav had filed the vakalatnama of
 Shri G.K. Bharti, Advocate in the trial court on record. An
 application dated 11th October, 2002 under Section 295 of
 the Cr.P.C. read with Section 91 of the Cr.P.C. for
 production and admission and denial of documents which
 were allegedly not supplied/relied upon by the
 prosecution/investigating agency was filed by Vishal Yadav
 before the trial court captioning it in the case titled State v.
 Vishal Yadav under the signatures of Shri G.K. Bharti and
 Shri J.P. Jain, Advocates. In this application, the applicant
 had made a reference to certain disclosures recorded by the
 police at Dabra and subsequently by the Ghaziabad Police at
 Ghaziabad stating as follows:- 554. The applicant in para 8 above therefore refers to disclosures
 recorded at Dabra. There is a reference to subsequent
 disclosure recorded by the Ghaziabad Police at Ghaziabad;
 and that these disclosures were obtained forcibly and under
 duress. No details of the same are mentioned. The applicant
 has asserted that UP police had knowledge of facts which
 were to be attributed to Sukhdev @ Pehalwan but were
 planted and fabricated against the applicant and his co-
 accused. 555. It is important to note that in this application, the applicant
 nowhere states that no disclosure was made by him. The
 applicant also did not state that signatures had been obtained
 on blank papers as he does at a later stage when while
 challenging the recoveries, reference is made to the
 disclosures as well. 556. The challenge before us that the disclosure statements have
 to be disbelieved as they were not signed fails to consider the
 possibility of a disclosure statement being made orally. 557. In the instant case, wide publicity was given to the
 commission of offence. Searches and raids were effected to
 locate the appellants, initially for Vikas and Vishal Yadav
 and after 2nd of March 2002 for Sukhdev @ Pehalwan as
 well yet as they were not traceable. Pursuant to disclosure
 statements, Vikas and Vishal Yadav pointed out to the police
 officers the place where the offence was committed as well
 as where the weapon used in the commission of offence and
 the belongings of the deceased were hidden. They also got
 recovered the hammer which was the weapon of offence and
 the wrist watch of the deceased. We find that independent of
 whether the statement made by the accused false within the
 purview of Section 27 , it is admissible as ‗conduct' under Section 8 of the Indian Evidence Act. It has been so held in State v. Navjot Sandhu (supra) placing reliance on (1979) 3
 SCC 90, Prakash Chand v. State (Delhi Administration). 558. The evidence of the investigating officer coupled with the
 conduct of the appellant; their response to the police
 applications for custody remand to effect recoveries
 premised on the disclosure statements as well as the
 recoveries of the hammer, wrist watch and Tata Safari
 vehicle effected on the pointing out of these appellants, Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 326 amply proves the truthfulness of the investigating officer and
 the making of the disclosure statements by Vikas and Vishal
 Yadav. The objection to the genuineness of the disclosure
 statements on the ground that they were unsigned are
 without factual basis and legal merit and hereby rejected. (iii) Contents of disclosure statements 559. It is contended that according to the prosecution, both Vikas
 and Vishal Yadav made confessional statements which were
 recorded by PW-35 Anil Somania and no other statement
 was made. Learned senior counsel has painstakingly taken
 us through the disclosure statements attributed to Vikas and
 Vishal Yadav and urged that the identity of the language
 shows that the same are clearly doctored statements. 560. So far as the contents of the disclosure statement are
 concerned, it is pointed out by Mr. U.R. Lalit, learned senior
 counsel that in the disclosure statement attributed to Vikas
 Yadav (Ex.PW-35/16), the name of a third accomplice
 ‗Pehalwan' is revealed. It has also been stated that Vikas
 Yadav could point out the spot where the deceased was
 murdered; the spot where his dead body was burnt and the
 spot where the hammer was hidden and that he could take
 out the hammer. Mr. Lalit, Advocate would submit that
 these facts are relevant if the prosecution could establish that
 the statement was voluntarily made, and only to that extent Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 327 the disclosure would be admissible under Section 27 of the
 Indian Evidence Act. 561. An objection has been urged before this court also of the fact
 that identical disclosure statements are attributed to both
 Vishal (Exh.PW-35/B) and Vikas Yadav (Exh.PW-35/16).
 It has been argued by Mr. Ram Jethmalani, learned Senior
 Counsel that according to the prosecution, Vikas's disclosure
 statement (Exh.PW-35/16) was first in time. It is urged that
 in view of the disclosure statement attributed to Vikas
 Yadav, it has to be held that recoveries were made pursuant
 to the disclosure which was first in point of time. No
 disclosure can therefore be attributed to Vishal. 562. Both Mr. Lalit as well as Mr. Jethmalani, learned senior
 counsel have placed reliance on the Privy Council
 pronouncement reported at AIR (34) 1947 Privy Council 67,
 Pulukuri Kottaya and ors. v. Emperior. The Privy Council
 clearly laid down the position that the ―fact discovered under Section 27 of the Indian Evidence Act is not equivalent to
 object produced‖. In para 10 of the judgment, it was held
 that :- 563. It is also strongly objected that the entire statement as having
 been made by the appellants to the police is not admissible in
 evidence and that the prosecution could have relied only
 such part of the statement which leads to the discovery of a
 relevant fact would be admissible in evidence. Yet the entire
 disclosure statements have been exhibited in the instant case. 564. Our attention is drawn by Mr. Jethmalani to the questions
 put to Vishal Yadav while recording his statement in
 accordance with the provisions of Section 313 of the Cr.P.C.
 It is urged that the entire disclosure statement was wrongly
 put to him as is manifested from a reading of question
 number 100 and other questions. 565. Mr. Jethamalani has drawn our attention to the
 pronouncement of the Supreme Court in the Parliament
 House attack case reported at ( 2005) 11 SCC 600 State
 (NCT of Delhi) v. Navjot Sandhu . In this case, reliance was
 placed by the prosecution on disclosure statement made to
 the Investigating Officer. The disclosure statement was
 made by the accused Afzal to PW-66 M.C. Sharma on 16th
 December, 2001 which was almost similar to the confession
 statement recorded by the DCP. We have noted para 207 of Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 330 the pronouncement wherein the court has concluded that the
 fact that signatures of the accused Afzal were obtained on
 the statement does not, however, distract from its
 admissibility to the extent it is relevant under Section 27 .
 The principles laid down by the Supreme Court with regard
 to interpretation of Section 27 of the Evidence Act, 1872
 shed valuable light on the issues raised before this court and
 deserve to be considered in extenso. The same reads as
 follows:- ―114. The interpretation of Section 27 of the Evidence Act has loomed
 large in the course of arguments. The
 controversy centered round two aspects:- These issues have arisen especially in the
 context of the disclosure statement (Ex. PW
 66/13) of Gilani to the police. According to the
 prosecution, the information furnished by Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 331 Gilani on certain aspects, for instance, that the
 particular cell phones belonged to the other
 accused - Afzal and Shaukat, that the Christian
 colony room was arranged by Shaukat in order
 to accommodate the slain terrorist
 Mohammad, that police uniforms and
 explosives 'were arranged' and that the names
 of the five deceased terrorists were so and so
 are relevant under Section 27 of the Evidence
 Act as they were confirmed to be true by
 subsequent investigation and they reveal the
 awareness and knowledge of Gilani in
 regard to all these facts, even though no
 material objects were recovered directly at
 his instance. xxx xxx xxx 119. We have noticed above that the
 confessions made to a police officer and a
 confession made by any person while he or she
 is in police custody cannot be proved against
 that person accused of an offence. xxx Section
 27 which unusually starts with a proviso, lifts
 the ban against the admissibility of the
 confession/statement made to the police to a
 limited extent by allowing proof of
 information of specified nature furnished by
 the accused in police custody. In that sense Section 27 is considered to be an exception to
 the rules embodied in Sections 25 and 26 (vide AIR 1962 SC 1116). Section 27 reads as
 follows: Provided that, when any fact is deposed
 to as discovered in consequence of
 information received from a person Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 332 accused of any offence, in the custody
 of a police officer, so much of such
 information, whether it amounts to a
 confession or not, as relates distinctly to
 the fact thereby discovered, may be
 proved. 120. xxx The decision of the Privy Council
 in Kotayya's case, which has been described
 as a locus classicus, had set at rest much of the
 controversy that centered round the
 interpretation of Section 27 . ... 121. The first requisite condition for
 utilizing Section 27 in support of the
 prosecution case is that the investigating
 police officer should depose that he
 discovered a fact in consequence of the
 information received from an accused
 person in police custody. Thus, there must
 be a discovery of fact not within the
 knowledge of police officer as a consequence
 of information received. Of course, it is
 axiomatic that the information or disclosure
 should be free from any element of
 compulsion. The next component of Section
 27 relates to the nature and extent of
 information that can be proved. It is only so
 much of the information as relates distinctly to
 the fact thereby discovered that can be proved
 and nothing more. It is explicitly clarified in
 the Section that there is no taboo against
 receiving such information in evidence merely
 because it amounts to a confession. At the
 same time, the last clause makes it clear that it
 is not the confessional part that is
 admissible but it is only such information or
 part of it, which relates distinctly to the fact
 discovered by means of the information Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 333 furnished. Thus, the information conveyed in
 the statement to police ought to be dissected if
 necessary so as to admit only the information
 of the nature mentioned in the Section. The
 rationale behind this provision is that, if a fact
 is actually discovered in consequence of the
 information supplied, it affords some
 guarantee that the information is true and can
 therefore be safely allowed to be admitted in
 evidence as an incriminating factor against the
 accused. As pointed out by the Privy Council
 in Kotayya's case, "clearly the extent of the
 information admissible must depend on the
 exact nature of the fact discovered and the
 information must distinctly relate to that fact".
 Elucidating the scope of this Section, the Privy
 Council speaking through Sir John Beaumont
 said "normally, the Section is brought into
 operation when a person in police custody
 produces from some place of concealment,
 some object, such as a dead body, a weapon or
 ornaments, said to be connected with the crime
 of which the informant is the accused". We
 have emphasized the word 'normally' because
 the illustrations given by the learned Judge are
 not exhaustive. The next point to be noted is
 that the Privy Council rejected the argument of
 the counsel appearing for the Crown that the
 fact discovered is the physical object produced
 and that any and every information which
 relates distinctly to that object can be proved.
 Upon this view, the information given by a
 person that the weapon produced is the one
 used by him in the commission of the murder
 will be admissible in its entirety. Such
 contention of the Crown's counsel was
 emphatically rejected with the following
 words: Sarkaria, J. analyzed the ingredients of the
 Section and explained the ambit and nuances
 of this particular clause in the following
 words: In the light of the legal position thus clarified,
 this Court excluded a part of the disclosure
 statement to which we have already adverted.‖

 (emphasis supplied) 567. The Supreme Court in Navjot Sandhu (Supra) then cited the
 discussion in Pulukuri Kotayya to the effect that the ‗fact
 discovered' within the Section is not restricted to the object
 produced but includes the knowledge of the place from
 which the object is produced and knowledge of the accused
 as to this, and that the information given must relate
 distinctly to this fact. This position was explained by the
 court as follows: ―125. We are of the view
 that Kotayya's case is an authority for the
 proposition that 'discovery of fact' cannot be
 equated to the object produced or found. It is
 more than that. The discovery of fact arises by
 reason of the fact that the information given by
 the accused exhibited the knowledge or the
 mental awareness of the informant as to its
 existence at a particular place. xxx xxx xxx 142. There is one more point which we
 would like to discuss i.e. whether pointing out
 a material object by the accused furnishing the
 information is a necessary concomitant of Section 27 . We think that the answer should be
 in the negative. Though in most of the cases
 the person who makes the disclosure himself
 leads the Police Officer to the place where an
 object is concealed and points out the same to
 him, however, it is not essential that there
 should be such pointing out in order to make
 the information admissible under Section 27 . It
 could very well be that on the basis of
 information furnished by the accused, the
 Investigating Officer may go to the spot in the
 company of other witnesses and recover the
 material object. By doing so, the Investigating
 Officer will be discovering a fact viz., the
 concealment of an incriminating article and the
 knowledge of the accused furnishing the
 information about it. In other words, where the
 information furnished by the person in custody
 is verified by the Police Officer by going to the
 spot mentioned by the informant and finds it to
 be correct, that amounts to discovery of fact
 within the meaning of Section 27 . Of course, it
 is subject to the rider that the information so
 furnished was the immediate and proximate
 cause of discovery. If the Police Officer
 chooses not to take the informant- accused to
 the spot, it will have no bearing on the point of
 admissibility under Section 27 , though it may
 be one of the aspects that goes into evaluation
 of that particular piece of evidence. (Underlining by us) Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 339 568. In (2007) 2 SCC 310, Amit Singh Bhikham Singh Thakur
 v. State of Maharashtra also the Supreme Court had
 reiterated the principle declared in Pulukuri Kotayya v.
 King Emperor (supra). 569. It has been urged that Section 27 of the Evidence Act does
 not contemplate discovery only of the place but also of the
 fact that certain articles were kept at a particular place which
 facts must relate to commission of an offence. In this regard
 in addition reliance has been placed on the judicial
 pronouncement reported at ( 1969) 2 SCC 872, Jaffar
 Hussain Dastagir v. State of Maharashtra (paras 5 and 7)

 ―5. ... Section 27 is a proviso to Section 26 and makes admissible so much of the
 statement of the accused which leads to the
 discovery of a fact deposed to by him and
 connected with the crime, irrespective of the
 question whether it is confessional or
 otherwise. The essential ingredient of the
 section is that the information given by the
 accused must lead to the discovery of the fact
 which is the direct outcome of such
 information. Secondly, only such portion of
 the information given as is distinctly
 connected with the said recovery is admissible
 against the accused. Thirdly, the discovery of
 the fact must relate to the commission of some
 offence. The embargo on statements of the
 accused before the police will not apply if all
 the above conditions are fulfilled. If an
 accused charged with a theft of articles or
 receiving stolen articles, within the meaning of Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 340 Section 411 IPC states to the police, ―I will
 show you the articles at the place where I have
 kept them‖ and the articles are actually found
 there, there can be no doubt that the
 information given by him led to the discovery
 of a fact i.e. keeping of the articles by the
 accused at the place mentioned. The discovery
 of the fact deposed to in such a case is not the
 discovery of the articles but the discovery of
 the fact that the articles were kept by the
 accused at a particular place. In principle there
 is no difference between the above statement
 and that made by the appellant in this case
 which in effect is that ―I will show you the
 person to whom I have given the diamonds
 exceeding 200 in number‖. The only
 difference between the two statements is that a
 ―named person‖ is substituted for ―the place‖
 where the article is kept. In neither case are the
 articles or the diamonds the fact discovered. xxx xxx xxx 7. This Court had to consider the scope of Section 27 of the Evidence Act in K.
 Chinnaswamy Reddy v. State of Andhra
 Pradesh . [1963-3 SCR 412] There the
 appellant was convicted under Section 411 , of
 the IPC by an Assistant Sessions Judge. He
 was tried along with another person who was
 convicted under Sections 457 and 380 of the
 IPC. A house had been burgled and valuable
 articles stolen. During the course of
 investigation the police recovered 17
 ornaments on the information given by the
 appellant. The other accused had also given
 information on the basis of which another
 stolen ornament was recovered. Overruling the
 interpretation of the Sessions Judge, this Court Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 341 held that the whole of the statement related
 distinctly to the discovery of the ornaments
 and was admissible under Section 27 of the
 Evidence Act. It was said: State. This judicial precedent has not considered binding Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 344 judgments of the Supreme Court including the judgment
 reported in 2012 ( 8) SCALE 670, Dr.Sunil Clifford Daniel
 v. State of Punjab and, therefore, is not binding. So far as
 the objection to the absence of witnesses to the recoveries
 are concerned, we are examining this aspect later. 576. Answering the objection of learned Senior Counsels to the
 disclosures in view of the similarity of their language, Mr.
 Dayan Krishnan, learned Standing Counsel has submitted
 that this does not impact either the making of or the
 voluntariness of the disclosures. It also does not affect the
 admissibility. 577. Mr. Krishnan submits that law prescribes no format for
 recording a disclosure and that courts have accepted even
 joint disclosure statements. Reliance is placed on the
 provisions of Section 13(2) of the General Clauses Act and
 the judicial pronouncement in State (NCT) v. Navjot
 Sandhu (para 145) (supra) in support of this submission. It
 is contended by the State that the recording of joint or
 consecutive disclosures of more than one accused persons is
 also legally permissible. 578. In State (NCT of Delhi) v. Navjot Sandhu (supra), on this
 issue, the Supreme Court had observed as follows:- 579. We may also make reference to para 146 of Navjot Sandhu (supra) wherein the court has considered the earlier
 pronouncement reported at (1983) 1 SCC 143 : 1983 SCC
 Crl. 139 Mohd. Abdul Hafiz v. State of Andhra Pradesh and held as follows: - Then, he took out the ring from the showcase
 and it was seized by the Police Inspector. The
 difficulty in accepting such evidence was
 projected in the following words by D.A.
 Desai, J. speaking for the Court: There is nothing in this judgment which
 suggests that simultaneous disclosures by more
 than one accused do not at all enter into the
 arena of Section 27 , as a proposition of law.‖ 580. In para 147 of State (NCT of Delhi) v. Navjot Sandhu (supra), the Supreme Court further observed as follows :- 581. Before this court protracted arguments laying piecemeal
 challenge to different portions of evidence and the procedure
 followed by the police have been laid. We, however, are
 guided by the well settled principles of law governing
 criminal trials and evaluation of evidence. The court is
 required to evaluate the entire evidence on the issue before
 arriving at its conclusions about the truthfulness of the
 disclosures. 582. Vikas Yadav and Vishal Yadav were investigated on the
 same day one after another by the Investigating Officer Anil
 Somania. They both narrated the unfolding of the same
 events which narration was reduced to writing as their
 separate statement in the police case diary. Both of them
 disclosed their knowledge of the involvement of a third
 accomplice ‗Pehalwan'; place where the crime was
 committed as well as the place where the body was burnt.
 They differ only in knowledge about the physical objects
 they could get recovered (while Vikas refers to the hammer,
 Vishal refers to a mobile phone as well as wrist watch). Is it
 not, but natural, that the statements would be couched in
 similar language? 583. So far as admissibility is concerned, only the following
 portion of Vikas Yadav's statement (Exh.PW-35/15) lead to
 the discovery of relevant facts which are admissible in
 evidence under Section 27 of the Indian Evidence Act: 584. Similarly, in his statement, (Exh.PW-35/17), Vishal Yadav
 also discloses that he also could point out where Nitish was
 murdered and the spot where the dead body was burnt and
 that the Safari vehicle was in Alwar, Rajasthan. Vikas Yadav additionally stated that Vikas and his family
 had been invited to Shivani Gaur's wedding and that he
 could get recovered the mobile phone and wrist watch. He
 reiterated Vikas Yadav's statement that one Pehalwan was
 also involved with Vikas and Vishal Yadav. 585. The involvement in the commission of the offence thus of a
 third person referred to as ‗Pehalwan' has been disclosed for
 the first time in the disclosure statements of the co-accused
 Vikas Yadav and Vishal Yadav. The permissibility and
 legality thereof has been discussed in the judicial
 pronouncement AIR 1946 Sind 43, Ismail v. Emperor. In
 this case, the conviction of Ismail was based, inter alia, upon
 his own confession giving information about Karimdino as
 well as the confession of this co-accused. The police found
 the involvement of Karimdino as a fact discovered as the
 result of Ismail's confession. This rendered the statement of
 Ismail as to the whereabouts of Karimdino admissible under Section 27 of the Evidence Act as evidence against Ismail
 and could not be altogether ignored. 586. In the present case Vikas and Vishal Yadav both disclose
 one after another that Pehalwan was also involved. 587. The investigating officer Anil Somania has testified that on
 25th February, 2002, after receiving permission from the
 CJM, Ghaziabad for recording the statements of the accused
 persons vide order (Exh.PW-35/15), he had proceeded to the
 Ghaziabad jail and recorded the statements in his case diary.
 He first recorded the statement of Vikas Yadav (Exh.PW-
 35/16) and then of the accused Vishal Yadav (Exh.PW-
 35/17). It is explained in court that the entire statements,
 though confessional, made disclosures of relevant facts had
 to be given an exhibit mark as the same was part of the
 police case diary and not on separate sheets. 588. The disclosure statement in the instant case have been made
 one after another by the accused persons. In view of the
 settled legal positions, the objection to their admissibility on
 the ground that they were so made or contains a narration of
 events in similar language would not by itself impact their
 genuineness. These disclosures are admissible under Section
 27 of the Evidence Act in the light of the principles laid
 down in para 145 of Navjot Sandhu (supra). 589. On 26th February, 2002, Anil Somania submitted his report
 in writing to the CJM, Ghaziabad (Ex.PW 35/20) about the Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 353 addition of Section 302 and 201 of the IPC in the FIR
 No.192/2002. 590. On 26th February, 2002 itself, the Investigating Officer filed
 a separate application (Ex.PW 35/21) in the court of the
 CJM, Ghaziabad informing the court that pursuant to the
 permission granted by the court, the statements of accused
 Vikas Yadav and Vishal Yadav were recorded on the 25th
 February, 2002 in the district jail Ghaziabad in which
 statements they made admissions with regard to the crime
 and detailing their disclosures. The Investigating Officer
 therefore, prayed for three days police remand for effecting
 recovery of these articles and also to get full information
 about the site of the occurrence. 591. On both the applications, the Chief Judicial Magistrate
 Ghaziabad passed orders dated 26th February, 2002 for
 summoning the accused Vikas and Vishal Yadav for 27th
 February, 2002 (Ex.PW 35/21A). 592. The learned CJM heard the application on 27th February,
 2002 for remand in the presence of the appellants Vikas and
 Vishal Yadav as well as their counsels. The accused persons
 did not file any application or make objections disputing the
 making of or the correctness of the disclosure statements
 referred to by the police. The court accordingly granted 24
 hours police custody remand starting from 9:00 a.m. of 28 th Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 354 February to 1st of March, 2002 to effect the recoveries. It
 appears that the court also directed that during the remand,
 the accused persons could keep one advocate with them. 593. It is important to note the manner in which the appellants
 proceeded thereafter in the matter. Shri Rajender
 Chaudhary, Advocate (DW 3) along with three other
 counsels Shri Ram Sharan Sharma, Shri Shishu Pal Sharma
 and Shri Suresh Yadav filed an application on behalf of
 Vikas Yadav (Ex.DW 3/A) immediately thereafter referring
 to the police remand ordered by the court and praying that
 the aforementioned advocates remain with the accused
 during the investigation. An identical application was filed
 on behalf of Vishal Yadav by Shri Jai Karan Sharma; Shri
 Sharma; Shri Satpal Yadav and Shri Ram Kumar Yadav,
 Advocate (Ex.DW3/X). On these applications, the court recorded that there was no
 ground for grant of the prayer as the order already stood
 passed for having advocate during the police remand
 (Ex.DW3/C). 594. It is important to note that no submission was made on the
 27th of February, 2002 in their above applications by either
 Vikas or Vishal Yadav to the effect that the disclosure
 statements had not been made by them or that no such
 statement was recorded by the investigating officer. 595. The challenge to the genuiness and admissibility of
 disclosure statement by Vikas and Vishal Yadav premised
 on similarity of contents is therefore devoid of merit and
 rejected. (iv) Disclosures not attested by any jail authority 596. The appellants have lastly argued that the disclosures must
 be disbelieved for the reason that they are not attested by any
 authority from the jail even though it was the case of the
 prosecution that the disclosure statements were recorded in
 the office of Dy. Superintendent of Police Dy. SP in the jail. 597. In this regard, it will be useful to examine the testimony of
 the investigating officer PW-35 Anil Somania. When cross-
 examined on the making of the disclosure statement, he has
 stated that both the accused were in the same District Jail,
 Ghaziabad and they were brought into the office of the Dy
 SP for the purposes of their interrogation. While the
 investigating officer was interrogating them, the Dy SP was
 engaged in some work of his own. Mr. Dayan Krishnan,
 learned Additional Standing Counsel for the State has
 pointed out that in this background, the Dy SP would have
 no knowledge of the proceedings of the interrogation by the
 IO and was, therefore, incompetent to attest the statement. Mr. Krishnan has urged that in case the Dy SP attested the
 statement in these circumstances, the same would have been
 hit by the rule of hearsay which is both written as well as
 oral. 598. No legal requirement for such attestation is pointed out. 599. We deal with these disclosures leading to recoveries of
 physical objects hereafter. However, the fact that is
 important is not that the hammer; watch and Tata Safari
 vehicle were recovered but the knowledge of the accused
 person about the place where they were hidden and to be
 found. 600. The failure to have the disclosures attested by the jail
 authorities is therefore, of no consequence in the present
 case, so far as their credibility is concerned. In the end, it is held that Vikas and Vishal Yadav were
 actually voluntarily made the statements Exh.PW-35/16 and
 Exh.PW-35/17 respectively disclosing relevant facts which
 disclosures are admissible by virtue of Section 27 of the
 Indian Evidence Act. (v) Whether such disclosures possible - given the alleged prior
 conduct of the appellants 601. The submission of the defence is that it was the prosecution
 case that the accused persons were absconding, shifting from Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 357 place to place and it would belie common sense that such
 persons would call upon the police to record disclosure
 statements and rattle off confessional statements after barely
 two days in jail. 602. We may be accused of stereotyping. However, in our quest
 for the answer to the question raised on behalf of appellants
 by Mr. U.R. Lalit as to how somebody who was absconding
 would blurt out confessions and disclosures immediately
 after their arrest, the answer is to be found in the unique style
 of the appellants in everything that they have done in this
 case, their sheer arrogance manifested from their conduct
 during trial and the impunity with which they set up a false
 defence. 603. The same reeks of a sense that they are above the law and
 come what may, the hands of law cannot reach them, no
 matter what they do. Secure in this belief they have
 challenged the police and the course of law with impunity.
 This is why they blurted out their disclosures confident that
 they could successfully challenge them later. The
 submissions made before us manifest this strategy. We shall
 point out the instances which elaborate this aspect in the
 portion of this judgment where we have discussed conduct of
 the appellants hereafter. We are appalled at the stance of the
 appellants and style adopted before and during trial which
 manifests that the appellants have been brazen and reckless Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 358 in their disrespect of all systems especially the investigating
 agency and the trial courts. III Recovery of hammer and wrist watch on the 28th of
 February 2002
 The discussion on this subject is being considered under the
 following sub-headings: (i) Submissions of the appellants (ii) The case of defence - whether believable (iii) Whether search and combing operations carried
 out at the spot by the Khurja police on 17th
 February, 2002? (iv) Whether Ghaziabad Police visited the spot
 between 17th and 28th February, 2002? (v) Recoveries from open place accessible to all (vi) No public witness to recovery examined - effect
 of (vii) Khurja Police not joined in the recoveries 604. Investigation in the matter had thus moved and the
 investigating officer had disclosure statements of the accused
 persons to proceed on 26th February, 2002, PW-35, the
 Investigating Officer gave the report to the Chief Judicial
 Magistrate in respect of the addition of Section 302 and 201 of the IPC to the case. An application was also moved by Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 359 the IO Anil Somania before the CJM, Ghaziabad seeking
 police custody remand (Ex.PW-35/21) of the two accused
 persons. The application stated that as per the disclosure
 statements of the accused recorded on 25th February, 2002,
 the Tata Safari used in the commission of the offence, the
 mobile phone of the deceased and the weapon of offence had
 to be recovered. 605. Learned senior counsels for the appellant have pointed out
 that this application does not make any mention of a wrist
 watch. However, it has been suggested by the prosecution
 that this application, therefore, manifests that the items
 recovered were not planted and that the recoveries were
 made pursuant to the disclosures. 606. On this application, the learned Chief Judicial Magistrate
 passed an order summoning the accused persons on 27 th
 February, 2002. The application of the investigating officer
 was considered on 27th February, 2002 (Exh.PW-3/B) and
 twenty four hours police custody remand from 9:00 am on
 the 28th February, 2002 to 1st March, 2002 was granted in the
 presence of the accused persons and their counsel. As has
 already been noticed by us, no objection was made by the
 accused that no disclosures were made by them to the police
 officials and that no police remand was necessary. Instead
 Vishal Yadav and Vikas Yadav moved applications through
 several counsels for accompanying them while they would Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 360 be in police custody for effecting the recoveries. The
 learned Chief Judicial Magistrate permitted one lawyer to be
 present with them during the period of the police custody. 607. PW-35 Anil Somania has stated that on 28th February, 2002
 he had gone to the jail after recording DD No.11 in the
 General Diary of the Police Station (PW-35/22) and took the
 accused in police custody from the jail at 9.25 a.m. He was
 accompanied by SI J.K. Gangwar, SI Tej Ram and five
 constables. According to the prosecution, DW-22 Satpal
 Singh Yadav, lawyer of the appellants also joined the police
 party. 608. The prosecution had also examined PW-34 J.K. Gangwar
 who accompanied the Investigating Officer Anil Somania
 during the recovery. PW-34, SI J.K. Gangwar has stated that
 after their medical examination on 28th February, 2002, the
 accused persons led the police party from Bulandshahr to
 Khurja road near Agwar Railway Crossing (14 kms) which
 spot they had reached around 12 noon. The accused Vikas
 Yadav first pointed out the place where Nitish Katara was
 killed which was about 25 steps before the railway crossing
 of Agwar. A site plan of the place pointed out was prepared
 by Anil Somania (Ex.PW 35/23). The accused persons then
 led the police party to Khurja Shikharpur road and pointed
 out the place where the body of Nitish Katara was burnt and Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 361 recovered, a place near the fields of Zahir, Advocate. A site
 plan of that place was prepared as well. 609. S.I. J.K. Gangwar stated that thereafter Vikas Yadav had
 searched among ‗pattel' bushes and had taken out the
 hammer. The bushes were 7 steps away from the place
 which was pointed out by him as the spot where the dead
 body was burnt. 610. So far as the wrist watch is concerned, according to SI Anil
 Somania, a little away from there, the accused Vishal Yadav
 went into the field and brought out the wrist watch again
 from the midst of ‗pattel' bushes, about five steps from the
 hammer, and gave it to him. The mobile phone could not be
 recovered. 611. Two public witnesses, Raghu and Aslam were joined as
 panchas in these proceedings. Shri Satpal Singh Yadav,
 Advocate was present at the time of the recoveries on the
 pointing out by the accused persons. PW-35 Anil Somania
 also stated that Shri Satpal Singh Yadav, Advocate was at
 that time the President of the Bar Association and was a
 practicing advocate of the Ghaziabad courts. 612. It is the case of the prosecution that after the pointing out
 and recovery of the hammer by Vikas Yadav and that of the
 wrist watch by Vishal Yadav, a joint recovery memo Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 362 prepared at the spot. This recovery memo has been proved
 on record by PW-34 SI Gangwar as Exh. PW-34/1. 613. The recovery memo was read over to the witnesses after it
 was scribed. The recovery memo was signed by both Vishal
 and Vikas as well as Shri Satpal Singh Yadav, Advocate,
 who has been examined as DW-22. 614. It contains the signature of two panchas as well - Raghu and
 Aslam. Ex.PW-34/1 has also been signed by SI Anil
 Somania, SI J.K. Gangwar, Constable Dinesh Kumar,
 Constable Vinod Kumar Singh. 615. As per the recovery memo Ex.PW-34/1, both the accused
 persons pointed out the place where the dead body was
 burnt. Thereafter, they took 7 steps towards the north-west,
 first Vikas took out a blood stained iron hammer from the
 cluster of ‗pattel' grass in a pit (gaddha). Ex.PW-34/1 further
 records that thereafter Vishal went ahead and took about 5
 steps to the north of the place wherefrom the hammer was
 recovered and took out one wrist watch of Esprit make from
 amongst the bushes. 616. SI J.K. Gangwar was also categorical that Shri Satpal Singh
 Yadav, Advocate was present (who was an advocate of the
 accused persons) when the recoveries were made on their
 insistence. The witness proved the recoveries as well as
 recovery memo as Ex. PW-34/1. SI Gangwar has explained Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 363 that Shri Satpal Singh Yadav, Advocate refused to sign the
 recovery memo as a witness stating that he was the advocate
 of the accused person and would not be able to defend the
 case on his behalf if he becomes a witness. In answer to a
 specific question, PW-34 categorically stated that Shri Satpal
 Singh Yadav, Advocate of the accused persons had taken the
 copy of the memo at the spot and he signed the original
 memo after writing that he has received the copy. The
 advocate's endorsement and signatures were exhibited as Ex.
 PW34/13. 617. A pointed question was put to the witness with regard to the
 nature of the bushes. SI Gangwar stated that the bush was a
 kind of grass which is called ‗pattel' in Uttar Pradesh and is
 used for making straw roofs, that is, thatched roofs. In
 answer to the question as to what was the height of the
 bushes, SI Gangwar stated that the bushes were around 2 ½
 to 3 feet in height at that time. The witness further
 categorically stated that the hammer which was recovered by
 Vikas Yadav from among the bushes, was not visible from
 the road to the police team. SI Anil Somania as PW-35 corroborates the above testimony
 of PW-34 S.I. Gangwar. 618. The hammer was sent for forensic examination on 16 th April,
 2002. As per the crime report received on 17th May, 2002 Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 364 (Exh.PW-3/3), the hammer had human blood on it, though
 there is no report on its grouping. 619. Thereafter, the appellants led the investigating officer to
 Alwar, Rajasthan for effecting the recovery of the Tata
 Safari vehicle. Three separate placed were searched but the
 Tata Safari could not be recovered and the police party
 returned to Ghaziabad around midnight. Upon return to
 Ghaziabad a medical examination was conducted of the two
 appellants on the night of 28th of February 2002. 620. On 1st March, 2002, Anil Somania produced the appellants
 before the CJM, Ghaziabad and the appellants were
 remanded to judicial custody. (i) Submissions of the appellants 621. The appellants have urged that the dead body was recovered
 on 17th February, 2002. Learned senior counsel has urged at
 length that the prosecution has attributed joint acts to the
 accused throughout the investigation. It is submitted by Mr.
 U.R. Lalit, learned Senior Counsel that the prosecution
 claims to have recovered a hammer and wrist watch from the
 same area eleven days thereafter on the 28th of February,
 2002. 622. The investigating officer claims to have prepared the sketch
 of the railway crossing at Aughwarpur where Nitish Katara Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 365 was murdered. (Exh.PW-35/23). Learned senior counsel has
 contended that according to the investigation they recovered
 a hammer on the disclosure of Vikas Yadav and a wrist
 watch on the disclosure of Vishal Yadav. It is further
 submitted that the prosecution claims to have effected the
 recovery in the presence of two public witnesses Raghu and
 Aslam vide the recovery memo Ex. PW-34/1. 623. Learned senior counsel has pointed out that in terms of
 orders passed by the court, the accused was accompanied by
 an advocate. During this search, the Tata Safari vehicle
 could not be recovered. 624. The recovery is challenged on the ground of delays in
 recording the statements under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C.
 PW-35 Inspector Anil Somania has attributed statements to
 panchas Raghu and Aslam on 25th March, 2002 whereas
 recoveries were effected on 28th February, 2002. Statements
 of PW 4 Inspector C.P. Singh, SSI C.P. Singh, PW 5 Ct.
 Mudassar Ali and Ct. Mahender were recorded only on 31 st
 March, 2002. The submission is that these delays in
 recording the statements about recovery proceedings render
 the recovery itself suspicious and unreliable. 625. The challenge to the recoveries is laid inter alia on the
 ground that the Ghaziabad police requested no assistance
 from the Khurja police and that no public witnesses were Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 366 present there. No efforts to join public witnesses were made
 and the names of witnesses have not been mentioned in the
 police diary which only makes a reference to ‗janta ke
 gawah'. It is contended that the investigating officer has not
 mentioned the time of recording the statements of Raghu and
 Aslam. He did not know these persons and has made no
 inquiries qua them. Learned senior counsel has urged at
 length that there has been conscious effort to make out
 ignorance of material details by the police. 626. The claim of the prosecution is challenged by Mr. Lalit,
 learned senior counsel also urging that there are
 contradictions in the testimony of SI Anil Somania (PW-35)
 vis-à-vis the testimony of PW-34 Sub-Inspector J.K.
 Gangwar who accompanied him during the investigation. 627. It is urged that knowledge of the place where the body was
 found, was with the Investigating Officer on 21st February,
 2002 when he met the SHO of the District Khurja. In any
 case, the accused persons are alleged to have made the
 disclosure statements on 25th February, 2002 and, therefore,
 from this date the Investigating Officer Anil Somania (PW- 35) admittedly had knowledge of the place where the
 hammer was allegedly hidden. This being so, the police
 could have proceeded to investigate and search for the
 weapon. It did not have to effect recovery based on the
 alleged disclosures. Any intelligent police officer would not Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 367 wait for a court order of police custody remand etc. but
 would have proceeded immediately to the spot. 628. Learned senior counsel would object that as per the
 disclosures, the reflected recoveries were to be effected from
 another jurisdiction. If this was so, police would have
 arranged for panchas to accompany them. Here the police
 claims that two members of the public, one Raghu and one
 Aslam came along on bikes and immediately became
 amenable to participating in the recovery proceedings. Their
 statements under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. were recorded
 only on 25th March 2002. It is contended that these facts
 show that the panchas were there on pre-arrangement of the
 police and they were not examined in court as the
 prosecution was apprehensive about their ability to withstand
 cross-examination. For this reason, there is reference only to
 ‗janta ke gawa' in the roznamcha, without mentioning the
 names of the witnesses. The sketches of the recovered items
 were also not prepared rendering the recoveries suspected. It
 is submitted that all the above circumstances point to only
 one conclusion that the recovered articles have been planted. 629. Mr Lalit has further urged that it is the prosecution case that
 the body was burnt to render its identification difficult. Such
 persons would not throw the weapon of offence or the
 belongings of the deceased in such close proximity to the Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 368 dead body and the recoveries smack of planting of the
 articles by the police. 630. Learned senior counsel has further submitted that PW 4
 Inspector Chander Pal Singh and PW 5 Constable Mudassar
 Khan from P.S. Khurja who recovered the dead body as well
 as PW 23 Shri Virender Singh (informed the police about the
 body) found nothing at the spot soon after information was
 received that a dead body was lying at the spot. Even the
 panchnama of the dead body recorded that nothing
 incriminating was found. 631. On behalf of the other appellants as well challenge to the
 recoveries is pressed on these very grounds. (ii) The case of defence - whether believable 632. In their defence evidence, the accused set up a case that their
 advocates were working as a defence team and it was their
 joint decision that DW-3 Rajender Chaudhary shall
 accompany the accused persons. In this regard the defence
 has examined two advocates, Shri Rajender Chaudhary,
 Advocate as DW-3 and Shri Satpal Singh Yadav, Advocate
 as DW-22 in support of their aforenoticed plea. 633. Mr. Lalit, ld. senior counsel contends that DW-3 Shri
 Rajinder Chaudhary was present with the appellants on the
 28th of February 2002 and that no recoveries were effected. He has urged that the DW-3 was present at both Khurja and
 Alwar and that the truth of his statement is manifested by the
 application made by him on 1st March, 2002 to the court. 634. Given the above narration of the prosecution case, it would
 be useful to deal with the testimony of these two witnesses. 635. DW-3 Shri Rajender Chaudhary, Advocate has claimed that
 it was he who had accompanied the police and the accused
 persons on the 28th of February, 2002 and that no recoveries
 were effected at the instance of the accused persons. He
 states that they had returned to Ghaziabad from Alwar
 around midnight. 636. But the recovery memo bears receipt and sign of DW-22
 Shri Satpal Singh Yadav, Advocate. In this testimony, DW-
 22 admits receipt of the recovery memo but claims that the
 police had given him the memo at about midnight on 28th
 February, 2002 in his chamber. Shri Satpal Singh Yadav
 suggests that he was in his chamber even at midnight as he
 was busy with bar elections. When cross-examined on this
 aspect he states that elections were only in mid March but he
 does not recollect the exact date. The witness admits that he
 did not inform the CJM that the police had served him the
 memo in the midnight. 637. The State has emphasised the fact that DW-22 does not state
 that Rajender Chaudhary was accompanying the police at Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 370 midnight when they came to serve the recovery memo. If
 the testimony of DW-22 was to be accepted, then DW-3 Shri
 Rajender Choudhary should have accompanied the police
 when they served the recovery memo upon Shri Satpal Singh
 Yadav. He ought to have known about it there and then.
 Neither of them says so. Instead Shri Satpal Singh Yadav
 merely states that he had informed Rajender Chaudhary,
 Advocate about the receipt of such memo, manifesting that
 Shri Rajender Chaudhary did not accompany the appellants
 on the 28th of February 2002. 638. The learned Trial Judge has noted that if the recovery memo
 was served as stated by DW-22 upon him in his chamber at
 midnight, he would have dated his receipt as 1 st March, 2002
 and not 28th February, 2002 as had been done by him. The
 learned Trial Judge has found the testimony of Shri Satpal
 Yadav unbelievable for the reason that he claims that he did
 not go through the contents of the recovery memo especially
 in such a high profile case involving influential clients. 639. Shri Rajinder Choudhary, Advocate and Shri Satpal Yadav,
 Advocate have claimed to be part of one team. In an era of
 mobile phones, if the events had unfolded in the manner
 testified by DW-3 Rajender Chaudhary, DW-22 Satpal
 Yadav would have contemporaneous knowledge of the day's
 events. DW-22 would have certainly known what had
 transpired in Khurja and that recoveries had been effected. DW-22 Advocate Satpal Yadav was the president of the
 Ghaziabad Bar Association and would be wielding
 substantial authority. The police could not have dared to
 effect manipulations or pressure his clients or tried to serve a
 fabricated document upon him. Yet he does not record any
 objection on the recovery memo that its contents reflecting
 recovery of the hammer and wrist watch at the instance of
 Vikas and Vishal Yadav respectively were incorrect or false. 640. DW-3 Shri Rajender Choudhary has claimed that on the 1 st
 of March 2002 he moved the application and affidavit
 (Ex.3/D and Ex.3/E) upon being informed by the court that
 the police had claimed to have effected the recoveries. 641. It is also important to note that even in the application dated
 1st March, 2002, Vikas and Vishal Yadav did not dispute the
 fact that their statements recorded on 25th February, 2002 by
 the Investigating Officer under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C.
 making the aforenoted disclosures. In this application dated 1st March, 2002 (Ex.DW 3/D) DW-
 23, Rajender Chaudhary claimed that he had accompanied
 his clients Vikas and Vishal Yadav from the district jail
 Dhasna while they were in police custody remand on the 28th
 of February 2002. In this application, the applicant stated
 that he remained in a separate car while the accused persons
 were with the police in an another private vehicle. The Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 372 application further stated that no recoveries of watch or
 hammer were effected at the instance of the appellants. The
 application stated that a fabricated (‗farzi') police recovery
 memo had been prepared by the police and that the accused
 persons had told the applicant (Shri Rajender Chaudhary)
 that while on the way, the police had threatened and forcibly
 obtained the signatures of the appellants on 5-6 blank papers.
 When he protested with the SHO Kavi Nagar and the
 Investigating Officer about this, the applicant was told that
 he should address the court and not them. By way of this
 application dated 1st March, 2002, the applicant prayed that
 the application and affidavit be directed to be made a part of
 the case diary of the Investigating Officer. The application was accompanied by an affidavit
 (Exh.DW3/E) of Shri Rajender Chaudhary, Advocate. 642. The authenticity of the recovery memo Exh.PW-34/1 has
 therefore been assailed primarily on the ground that Shri
 Satpal Singh Yadav, Advocate was not present at the spot
 and instead Shri Rajender Chaudhary, Advocate was present
 and that no recovery was affected. 643. We find from the record that DW-3, Rajender Chaudhary has
 made conflicting claims to support his version that he was
 the advocate who accompanied the police party and the
 accused persons on 28th February, 2002. DW-3 firstly stated Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 373 that the court had verbally directed him to go with the police
 and the accused persons. At a subsequent stage of his
 testimony, he stated that he was chosen as the consensus
 candidate from among the group of lawyers who had filed
 the applications. 644. The witness denied any association or acquaintance with
 Shri Satpal Singh Yadav, Advocate - DW-22 expressing his
 inability to recall even whether Shri Satpal Singh Yadav,
 Advocate was the then President of the Bar! 645. DW-22, Shri Satpal Singh Yadav, Advocate has testified that
 he had informed Shri Chaudhary on 1st March 2002 at about
 11 am in the court premises that he had received a copy of
 the recovery memo and shown it to him as well. However,
 DW-3, Shri Rajender Chaudhary, though admits that he met
 DW-22 before he went to the court, does not say that he saw
 the recovery memo. 646. DW-3 states that he was told about the seizure memo in his
 chamber at 10 / 10.30 a.m.). Yet neither the application
 dated 1st March, 2002 (Exh.DW-3/D) nor the affidavit
 Exh.DW3/F filed by DW-3 Rajender Choudhary make any
 reference to the recovery memo which has been received by
 DW-22 Satpal Singh Yadav. It is important to note that
 neither the application nor the supporting affidavit makes
 any mention of either the fact that Shri Satpal Singh Yadav, Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 374 Advocate had informed him about the receipt of the seizure
 memo or the contents thereof. On the contrary, DW-3 has
 testified that he was told by the court that as per the police
 record, recovery of a hammer and watch was affected and he
 filed the application as a result thereof. DW-3 has further
 testified that vide the order (Ex. DW-3/C) the court had
 dismissed his application. 647. In the application (Exh.DW-3/D) filed by DW 3 Rajender
 Chaudhary, for the first time a case was set up that 5 - 6
 blank papers were got signed when the accused were taken
 on the 28th of February, 2002 for recovery. 648. In his statement under Section 313 of the Cr.P.C., Vikas
 Yadav has in blatant contradiction stated that blank papers
 were got signed by him at the Agra Police lines during
 transit from Dabra to Ghaziabad. He has claimed that at one
 go, almost 20 blank sheets were got signed by the police
 from them under coercion. He has specifically alleged that
 the disclosures and recovery memos have been fabricated on
 these sheets. 649. It is important to note that Vishal Yadav does not make any
 such allegation. 650. The appellant, Vishal Yadav has categorically stated that he
 has neither filed any application nor affidavit complaining
 that his signatures were obtained on any blank papers by the Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 375 police or that he did not make any disclosure leading to any
 recoveries. 651. No complaint or application was made by either Vikas
 Yadav or Vishal Yadav on the 28th of February 2002 or
 thereafter to the CJM, Ghaziabad; S.P., Ghaziabad; CMO,
 MMG Hospital when their medical examination was
 conducted that their signatures were taken on blank papers or
 if no recovery was effected pursuant to their pointing out. 652. We also find that the investigating officer, Anil Somania has
 not been cross-examined on the aspect of the signatures of
 the accused persons on the recovery memo being obtained
 on blank papers. It is not open to the appellants to challenge
 the recovery memo on any such ground. 653. Unfortunately protracted submissions compelling a close
 scrutiny of the voluminous trial court record has been
 necessitated because of the testimony of these witnesses
 which is contrary to the record. The submissions of ld.
 counsel also are not supported by the evidence. It is not the
 case of the defence that the two accused persons were made
 to sign on the same blank papers. In the instant case, there is
 a single recovery memo (Ex.PW34/1) recording the recovery
 of both hammer and wrist watch which contains the
 signatures of both the accused persons. 654. The recovery memo Exh.PW-34/1 scripted in vernacular
 contains the signatures of Vikas and Vishal Yadav. Vishal
 Yadav had even put the date of 28th of February, 2002 under
 his signature on receipt of the recovery memo. Vikas Yadav
 has endorsed ―Received Copy‖ in English below his
 signature. The placement of the signature of the appellants
 also shows that they have affixed their signatures just below
 the writing of the police. The recovery memo runs into two
 pages. The signatures are on the second page. The above
 clearly manifests that the signatures of the appellants were
 not obtained on any blank papers and they received the copy
 of the seizure memo after the recoveries were effected and
 the documents were scribed by the police officials. Sh.
 Satpal Singh, Advocate has also endorsed on the recovery
 memo that he has received one copy in vernacular and also
 mentioned the correct date. He has affixed signature in
 English thereon. 655. It is in evidence that the police team returned to Ghaziabad
 only around 11:30 pm whereafter the accused persons had to
 be medically examined. The learned Trial Judge has thus
 rightly questioned the correctness of the defence as to where
 was the time for the police to prepare the recovery memo on
 blank signed papers of the accused persons? 656. Is there a legal requirement of obtaining the signatures of the
 accused persons on a recovery memo? The Supreme Court Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 377 has considered this issue in para 26 of 2012 ( 8) SCALE 670,
 Dr.Sunil Clifford Daniel v. State of Punjab . The Court
 placed reliance on its earlier pronouncement in Golakonda
 Venkateswara Rao v. State of Andhra Pradesh (supra) and
 held as follows: - 657. So far as the cross-examination of PW-34 SI J.K. Gangwar
 is concerned, the witness has stated that he had not told in
 his statement under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. about the
 presence of Shri Satpal Singh Yadav, the advocate of the
 accused. PW-34 however categorically denied the
 suggestion that advocate Shri Satpal Singh Yadav was not on
 the spot or that no recovery memo was handed over to DW
 22 Shri Satpal Yadav, Advocate. 658. We find that no question was put to PW-35 Anil Somania
 (Investigating Officer) who has recorded the statement of SI
 Gangwar under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. as to whether he
 had questioned him on this aspect. On application of the
 principles laid down by the Supreme Court in (2000) 4 SCC
 484, Jaswant Singh v. State of Haryana, it has to be held Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 379 that the failure to mention in his statement under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. by PW-34 SI J.K. Gangwar of the fact that
 Shri Satpal Singh Yadav, Advocate accompanied the
 accused persons when recoveries were effected is not a
 contradiction in any manner so as to impact the evidence on
 this issue. 659. The appellants are educated and well placed in life. They
 were guided, not by single counsel, but had teams of lawyers
 for their defence. The allegation of coercion on the part of
 the Ghaziabad police against the appellants is completely
 vague. The facts militate against the truth of the appellants'
 contention taken for the first time in their statements
 recorded under Section 313 of the Cr.P.C., that their
 signatures were obtained on blank papers by the police. 660. It is also difficult to accept the defence version of the
 recovered articles being planted given the close scrutiny in
 the case of the police action by the media as well as the
 ongoing scrutiny by the courts; the prompt and aggressive
 judicial interventions by the accused persons; the presence of
 the lawyer of the accused during the recovery proceedings
 pursuant to court orders; the wide reach and extent of the
 influence of the accused persons; the status and profile of
 their family. Given all of the above the investigating officers
 would not have dared to plant evidence against the accused
 persons, especially of the kind of physical articles which Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 380 were recovered. The complainant has expressed strong
 reservations about certain critical areas of the investigation
 based on the influence of the accused and their families. We
 separately consider material omissions by the police during
 investigation, their effect and whether any benefit enures as a
 result to the appellants. 661. Who could be accused of planting articles for the recovery
 and why? The family members of the deceased would be
 interested only in ensuring that the real culprits who were
 responsible for the deceased's abduction and murder were
 punished. Nilam Katara, mother of the deceased and Nitin
 Katara, his brother would have no motive at all to falsely
 implicate the accused persons, so as to plant belongings of
 the deceased or a weapon to get false evidence of recovery at
 the instance of the accused persons. 662. The defence has neither attributed any such motive on the
 part of Nilam Katara (the mother) or Nitin Katara (brother of
 the deceased) nor has any suggestion been made by the
 defence to these two persons in the witness box that they
 have falsely implicated the appellants. There is not even a
 remotest suggestion to the witnesses of any previous enmity
 of the witnesses with the accused persons. 663. Till the 28th of February 2002, it was not confirmed to Nilam
 Katara as to whether it was actually her son who had been Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 381 murdered. Nilam Katara was struggling to ensure that
 investigation was properly conducted. By then she had
 already approached the Supreme Court. Thereafter she had
 filed Crl.Writ No.247/2002 which was listed on 28 th
 February, 2002. We have asked the question as to why
 would she falsely implicate any person? She would be the
 person most interested in establishing the truth. 664. For all these reasons we are unable to differ with the finding
 of the learned trial judge that it was DW-22 Satpal Singh
 Yadav who accompanied the police and the accused during
 the police remand on the 28th of February 2002 and not DW-
 3 Shri Rajender Choudhary. 665. Learned defence counsel has contended that Anil Somania
 stands contradicted by PW-34 SI J.K. Gangwar on this
 aspect as according to PW-34 search of their persons or
 vehicles was not given before joining Raghu and Aslam in
 the recovery. PW-35 Anil Somania however stated that
 search of their persons was given before joining the public
 persons in the recovery. At its worst, the statement by Anil
 Somania is an embellishment in the witness box or it is
 equally possible that S.I. J.K. Gangwar overlooked this
 aspect. This contradiction or omission by itself is not
 sufficient to taint the recovery. 666. It is urged that even though, according to the prosecution,
 DW-22, Satpal, Advocate had accompanied the accused
 persons during the recovery proceedings, he was not cited in
 the chargesheet as a witness. The prosecution filed an
 application to examine Shri Satpal Yadav, Adv. which was
 rejected by the trial court by order dated 29 th July, 2006.
 This order was challenged before the Hon'ble High Court
 and vide its order dated 6th August, 2007 allowed
 prosecution to examine the witness. It would appear that the
 prosecution thereafter decided not to examine Shri Satpal
 Singh Yadav, Advocate as a witness. He was then examined
 as a defence witness. It is clearly evident therefrom that the
 witness was not supporting the prosecution case. The
 prosecution was therefore justified in opting not to examine
 Shri Satpal Singh Yadav, Advocate as a prosecution witness. 667. We find that even DW-23 Rajender Chaudhary did not
 pursue this application which establishes that the same was
 filed only to create false evidence and does not negate the
 presence of Shri Satpal Singh Yadav, Advocate with the
 appellants at the spot when recoveries were effected. The
 defence evidence of DW-3 and DW-22 to the contrary is not
 believable. 668. We find that the learned Trial Judge has extensively
 analyzed the testimony of DW-3, Rajender Choudhary and Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 383 DW-22, Satpal Choudhary and disbelieved it noting the
 following:- DW-3 had deposed that ‗he accompanied both the accused
 during police custody remand of three days w.e.f. 28th
 February, 2002 to 1st March, 2002'. The learned Trial Judge
 notes that the witness forgot that there are only 28 days in
 February and that this answer suggested that he was neither
 aware of the court order nor accompanied the accused
 persons. (iii) DW-3 claimed that the court had orally directed him
 to accompany the accused persons. The witness was not
 aware as to whether any application was moved on behalf of
 the accused before the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Ghaziabad
 by any advocate seeking permission to accompany the
 accused during the police custody remand. DW-3 stated that
 there was no written order by the court that they have to
 accompany the accused persons and that the court had
 merely directed him verbally to do so! The learned Trial
 Judge has observed that thereafter in answer to a suggestive
 question by Shri G.K. Bharti, Advocate, he stated that he had
 chosen to accompany the accused persons with the consent
 of lawyers of the two accused. (iv) The witness claimed that he had orally informed the
 court that he was appointed to accompany the accused
 persons and that no recovery was effected in his presence but
 the court told him about the police recovery on hammer and
 watch at the instance of the accused persons. So he moved
 the application on 1st March, 2002 (Ex.DW3/D) with his Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 384 affidavit (Ex.DW3/E) on which the court made the order
 (Ex.DW3/F). (v) In Ex.DW3/D, Shri Rajender Choudhary had written
 that he remained with the police vehicle in his own private
 vehicle no.DL-5CB-4595. In the witness box, DW-3 could
 not give the make of the vehicle and further claimed that it
 was a vehicle arranged by the parokar on behalf of the
 accused persons. 669. The recoveries were effected in the presence of Shri Satpal
 Singh Yadav, Advocate, the counsel for the accused persons.
 The testimony of PW-34, S.I. J.K. Gangwar and PW-35 Anil
 Somania and then categorical statements that Shri Satpal
 Singh Yadav, Advocate accompanied the police party and
 the accused persons at the time of recovery; details of the
 recoveries; preparation of the recovery memo on the spot;
 signatures of the accused persons; the witnesses; the
 endorsement by their lawyer as well as the reason for the
 same remains unassailed and no question was put to the
 witness in this regard. There is no challenge also to
 statement of the investigating officers that copy of the
 recovery memo was received by the advocate at the spot
 itself. No suggestion has been put to the investigating
 officers to the effect that he had made an incorrect statement
 with regard to the presence of Shri Satpal Singh Yadav,
 Advocate. No suggestion was given to the investigating
 officers on the lines of the testimony of DW-3 Rajender
 Chaudhary and DW-22 Satpal Singh Yadav. 670. The application dated 1st March, 2002 filed by Shri Rajender
 Chaudhary (DW 3) did not seek any action against the
 Investigating Officer for recording any false statement. No
 objection was made that false evidence has been created
 even though the same is an extremely serious matter.
 Interestingly, no orders appeared to have been passed on this
 application nor has copy thereof been furnished to the police
 authorities or the prosecution. A bare reference thereto is
 contained in the order dated 1st of March, 2002. 671. The learned Trial Judge has noted the pointed questions with
 regard to the disclosures and recoveries put to both the
 accused persons in their statements recorded under Section
 313 of the Cr.P.C. Question nos. 130, 142, 143 and 144
 made categorical reference to the recoveries and recovery
 memos. In all these questions, it was put to Vikas Yadav
 that advocate Shri Satpal Singh Yadav had accompanied
 them and was present at the time of the recovery; that copy
 of the recovery memo was received by him at the spot and
 he made an endorsement (Ex.PW34/1A) with regard to
 receipt of copy of the recovery memo; that Shri Satpal
 Yadav refused to sign the memo as a witness on the plea that
 he was an advocate of the accused persons and if he signs he
 would become a witness to the recovery and would not be
 able to defend the case on their behalf. Similar questions were put to accused Vishal Yadav as well. 672. In response, the two accused persons merely denied the
 recoveries and presence of Shri Satpal Yadav. However,
 neither of the two accused stated that DW-3, Shri Rajender
 Choudhary, Advocate had accompanied them or was present
 at the spot. 673. The appellants do not deny their signatures on the recovery
 memo. Other than the vague assertions set up by DW-3,
 Shri Rajinder Chaudhary in his application dated 1 st March,
 2002 states that signatures of the appellants were obtained on
 5 or 6 blank papers during the police remand on 28 th
 February, 2002 while the appellants have nowhere stated that
 their signatures were obtained on blank papers during the
 police remand on 28th February, 2002. Instead a
 contradictory and false claim is set up by Vikas Yadav that
 his signatures were obtained on 20 black sheets at the Agra
 police line during police remand from Dabra to Ghazibad.
 Clearly the challenge to the recoveries effected on 28th of
 February 2002 on behalf of the appellants on the grounds
 considered above is untenable and hereby rejected. (iii) Whether search and combing operations carried out at the
 spot by the Khurja police on 17th February, 2002? 674. Learned senior counsels have vehemently urged that the
 genuineness of the alleged recoveries must be disbelieved
 inasmuch as police officials must have visited the site on the
 Shikharpur Road when the body was recovered on 17th Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 387 February, 2002 and must have conducted a proper search
 when nothing was found by the police. 675. It is submitted that the disclosure statements were recorded
 on 25th February, 2002, while the alleged recoveries were
 effected only on 28th February, 2002. It is contended that
 between the 17th and 28th of February 2002 the prosecution
 had ample opportunity for planting the articles which were
 recovered. It is urged that the alleged recoveries on the 28 th
 of February, 2002 of a hammer and watch from the same
 spot, a place which is open and accessible to all also clearly
 shows that the same were planted. 676. Mr. Lalit also questions that if the body had to be burnt to
 destroy its identity, why would the person responsible for
 such a heinous crime throw the hammer as a weapon of
 offence or the watch near the body? It is urged that this
 would be most illogical and that hence the recoveries on 28th
 February, 2002 were clearly fake. 677. The recovery was challenged by Mr. U.R. Lalit, learned
 senior counsel who submitted that when the panchnama for
 the body was prepared (Exh.PW-3/2), it specifically stated
 that nothing incriminating was found. In this regard
 reference is made to the testimony of PW-4 Inspector
 Chander Pal Singh, PW-5 Ct. Mudassar Khan and PW-23
 Shri Virender Singh. 678. Mr. Ram Jethmalani, learned senior counsel has placed
 reliance on the judicial pronouncement reported at ( 1998) 8
 SCC 552 Krishan Mohar Singh Dugal v. State of Goa in
 support of the above objection. In this precedent, on a
 scrutiny of the evidence of the witnesses and the panchnama,
 the Supreme Court found that the police was already
 informed about the place where the narcotic substance was
 kept and held that therefore this was not a case where the
 offending article was taken out by the accused from the place
 of concealment after leading the police to that place which
 the police did not know about earlier. The coconut tree from
 whose stem the charas was allegedly recovered, was
 admittedly standing in an open place accessible to all. 679. Learned Senior Counsels have contended that it has come in
 the evidence of PW-4 Inspector Chander Pal Singh that
 people were coming to see the body on the 17th of February
 2002 and the place was thus known to the whole world. PW-
 4 has testified that he told the place from where the dead
 body was recovered to SO Anil Somania on the 21st of
 February 2002. It is urged that the police already knew of
 the spot and, there was no recovery on 28th of February 2002
 of any article pursuant to the disclosures as the place of
 recovery. It is contended that the recoveries therefore were
 made from an open place known to all and cannot be relied
 upon to support the conviction of the appellants. 680. So far as the wrist watch is concerned, learned senior
 counsel would contend that there is no evidence at all that
 the deceased was wearing the watch alleged to have been
 recovered was the same watch that the deceased was wearing
 when he went to the wedding. In this regard, reliance is
 placed on the pronouncement of the Supreme Court reported
 at (2002) Crl.LJ 925 Kevji and Ors. v. State of Rajasthan.
 The binding principles on evaluation of evidence laid down
 in this case read as follows: 681. Mr. Sumeet Verma, ld. counsel for Vikas Yadav has placed
 reliance on pronouncement of the Supreme Court at (2012) 4
 SCC 722, Govindaraju @ Govinda v. State, wherein the
 recoveries were doubted for the reasons contained in para 51,
 which reads as follows: 682. The recoveries in the instant case have to be tested on these
 principles. 683. In the instant case, the disclosures have been made by Vikas
 and Vishal Yadav on 25th February, 2002 in their statements
 under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. which we have found
 reliable. Pursuant thereto recoveries have been effected on
 the 28th of February 2002. We have noted that the recovery
 memo bears the signatures of the appellants as well as their
 counsel. The making of the disclosure statement as well as
 the recoveries at the instance of the accused persons are
 supported by the oral testimony of the investigating officers. 684. We may advert to the testimony of PW-23 Shri Virender
 Singh, the village pradhan who had first reported the
 discovery of the dead body to the police. Testifying as PW-
 23, Virender Singh stated that he had found the body on the
 17th of February, 2002 at around 9/9.15 am while he was
 passing by on his jeep on the right side of the road and had
 informed the Khurja police. In his cross-examination, the
 witness stated that from the position of the body one could
 see 10-20 feet all around and that the police was searching
 an area of 100-200 metres; that they were roaming in the Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 392 area. To roam in an area is different from a search and
 combing operation carried by the police. 685. The prosecution has also established discovery of the body
 in the testimony of PW-4 Inspector Chander Pal Singh who
 was posted as the Inspector-in-Charge of the P.S. Khurja in
 February, 2002 and investigated the case between 17th and
 26th of February, 2002. PW-4 has stated that at about 9.10
 a.m. on 17th February, 2002 information was received from
 one Shri Virender Singh at the Police Station that one dead
 body was lying on Shikarpur road. This information was
 recorded as DD No.12 (Exh.PW-4/A) alongwith the
 departure of the witness with his staff for the spot. They
 started from the police station at about 9.10 a.m. and reached
 the spot within 10-15 minutes. They remained at the spot
 upto 3 p.m. on 17th February, 2002. 686. The police found a male dead body lying in a ‗khainuma
 gaddha' ‗khaai‟ (gorge/pit) adjoining the kachha portion of
 the road at the spot. No one identified the dead body which
 was photographed (Exhs.PW-4/2 and 3). The panchnama of
 the dead body Exh.PW-3/2A was prepared by Chander Pal
 Singh. The witness categorically stated that as per the
 panchnama, the right hand of the body was burnt with other
 body parts but the left hand and its fingers were not burnt.
 The panchnama was witnessed by public persons, Surender Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 393 Singh, Zamil, Zarif, Devi and Mukesh. Their parentage and
 full addresses are given in the panchnama itself. 687. In his cross-examination Inspector Chander Pal Singh has
 testified that when he reached the spot on the 17th of
 February, 2002, there was a crowd of about 50 persons
 around the dead body; that people had been coming and
 going around the dead body for the purposes of its
 identification thereafter. The body was stated to be lying
 with its head on the west side and feet in the east direction
 about six steps away from the pucca part of the road. The
 witness had also taken the burnt ash and samples near the
 dead body which were sealed and deposited as case property
 at the Police Station Khurja. 688. Inspector Chander Pal Singh was also extensively questioned
 with regard to searching the area around the dead body on
 17th February, 2002. It is in the testimony of the witness that there was a tubewell
 about 50 steps away from the place where the body was
 found. In answer to a specific question as to whether he had
 searched the area around the dead body, the witness had
 stated that he had only ‗seen' the place near the body. In
 answer to another pointed question on the issue, the witness
 stated that he did not go upto the tubewell. The witness also
 stated that the field on the south side was not searched by Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 394 him. There is a categorical answer by the witness that he had
 not given any instructions to his subordinate staff to search
 the area around the dead body. The witness also stated that
 he did not find any weapon or incriminating article near the
 dead body. The witness further stated that though trees were
 shown in the site plan Exh.PW-4/4, he had not shown the
 bushes specifically nor had he marked any pit. 689. On the nature of the search which was effected on 17 th
 February, 2002. Mr. Lalit, senior advocate has also drawn
 our attention to the evidence of PW-5, Constable Mudassar
 Khan who stated that on 17th February, 2002, the police team
 had started by about 09.10 a.m. from the police station and
 reached the spot within 10-15 minutes. The police team had
 stayed at the spot where the dead body had been recovered
 till around 2-3 p.m. He refers to no search or combing
 operations. 690. It is in the testimony of Ct. Mudassar Khan that the dead
 body was in a pit about 3-4 steps from the road. The witness
 stated that he had seen the place surrounding the body (spot)
 but had made no measurement as to how many feet he had
 gone upto. Ex.PW-4/4 shows that the tubewell was at a
 distance of about 50 steps from the dead body. The police
 persons had gone in one or the other direction. The witness
 could not recollect if there was any tubewell. PW-5
 Constable Mudassar Khan had also testified that he had not Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 395 gone into the fields. He further stated that nothing was
 recovered upto 15-20 steps. 691. The appellants contend that nothing was recovered by either
 PW-4 Inspector Chander Pal Singh or PW-5 Constable
 Mudassar Khan around the dead body up to about 15-20
 paces. The appellants have therefore, challenged the
 recovery of the hammer by the accused Vikas Yadav 6 - 7
 steps from the place of burning of the dead body as pointed
 out by him and recovery of the wrist watch about 5 steps by
 Vishal Yadav from the place where the accused Vikas Yadav
 had recovered the hammer. 692. Mr. Dayan Krishnan, the learned Additional Standing
 Counsel for the State has contended that there is no evidence
 at all of a search or combing operation conducted at the time
 of the recovery of the body. The police had not carried out
 any combing operations or intensive search of the place
 where the body was found or around it. 693. Mr. Dayan Krishnan submits that the evidence on record has
 to be read in its entirety having regard to the nature of the
 site where the dead body was recovered. Our attention has
 been drawn to the photographs of the dead body which were
 taken by the police (Ex. PW-4/2). These photographs reflect
 that there was long grass in the area close to the spot where
 the body was found. 694. Mr. Krishnan has submitted that the Khurja police having
 knowledge of the fact that an identified body had been found
 and the place where it had been found can not impact the
 genuineness of either the disclosure statements recorded by
 Ghaziabad police or the recoveries effected pursuant thereto.
 The learned Additional Standing Counsel has urged that this
 issue is no longer res integra and stand settled in the
 pronouncements of the Supreme Court in (2011) 3 SCC 685,
 Ramesh and others v. State of Rajasthan and (1973) 3 SCC
 662 Karan Singh v. State of U.P. 695. First and foremost let us examine what was the position at
 the spot where the body was discovered? Idle bystanders
 curious about the body which had been found would have
 gathered. Light is shed on the prevalent situation by the
 recovery memo prepared by PW 4 at the spot. The relevant
 extract of Panchanama (Ex PW 3/2A) of the unknown dead
 body dated 17th February, 2002 is extracted hereafter: 696. The translation of the relevant extract of the Panchanama
 (Ex PW 3/2A) of the unknown dead body dated 17th
 February, 2002 reads as follows: 697. The learned Trial Judge in the judgment dated 28th May,
 2008 has noted the testimony of Inspector Chander Pal Singh
 that when he reached the spot to recover the dead body, there
 were about 50 persons and thereafter people had been just
 coming and going. PW-4, Inspector Chander Pal Singh has
 stated that he had conducted only inquest proceedings and
 prepared the panchnama (Ex.PW3/2). PW-4, Inspector
 Chander Pal Singh in his cross-examination has admitted
 that he had not shown the pattel bushes specifically in the
 site plan (Ex.PW4/4). The spot from where the dead body
 was recovered is not disputed by the appellants. 698. The learned Trial Judge has adverted to the clear testimony
 of the investigating officers SI J.K. Gangwar (PW-34) and SI
 Anil Somania (PW-35) with regard to the existence of the
 bushes. SI J.K. Gangwar had explained that the bushes were
 called „pattel‟ in U.P. which were used for making thatched
 roofs and were to the height of about 2-3 feet. This oral Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 400 testimony was corroborated by the photographs (Ex.PW4/2
 and Ex.PW4/3) of the dead body. 699. SI J.K. Gangwar has stated that the hammer recovered by
 Vikas Yadav from among these bushes was not visible from
 the road. The witness also stated that they were not able to
 see the earth beneath the bushes as the place was covered by
 the bushes. His testimony has not been challenged in cross
 examination. No suggestion was given to the witness by the
 appellants that there were no bushes at the spot or that the
 hammer and the wrist watch could be seen by the public. 700. Anil Somania (PW-35) was subjected to a protracted cross- examination. He explained that the wrist watch was
 recovered from bushes of small wheat plants/crop and that
 there were many such like bushes in the area. So far as the
 topography is concerned, PW-35 clarified that from the main
 road, first of all there was a kachha rasta, then bushes and
 then fields. It is in evidence that the dead body was
 recovered from a gorge (referred to ‗khainuma gaddha‟ or
 loosely referred to as ‗pit' or ‗gorge'). 701. PW-4, Inspector Chander Pal Singh has testified that he had
 not given any instructions to his subordinate staff to search
 the area around the dead body. PW-4 Inspector Chander Pal
 Singh denied all suggestions by the defence to suggest that Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 401 during his presence on the spot on 17th February, 2002, the
 police had carried out search operations. 702. PW-4 Inspector Chander Pal Singh and PW-5 Ct. Mudassar
 Khan stated that they had only seen and not effected any
 search for any articles. Even if it were to be held to be
 contrary, it stands established that the hammer and wrist
 watch were not in the open and were not visible to all. So
 they could not have been recovered by the police on the 17 th
 of February, 2002. 703. The learned Trial Judge has noted that the photographs of
 the dead body show dense bushes towards the feet of the
 deceased and there were leaves spread all around the ground.
 The photographs Ex.PW4/13 show bushes on the left side of
 the dead body as well. 704. The learned Trial Judge also notes the specific question put
 in cross-examination by counsel for Vikas Yadav to PW-23,
 Virender Singh regarding inspection of the place by the
 police. The witness has testified that he did not know if the
 police were removing the bushes with ‗dandas' (sticks)
 although police was roaming in the surrounding area. It has
 held that the accused persons therefore, admitted the
 presence of dense bushes which were required to be removed
 by dandas to effect the search. 705. When subjected to cross-examination by Shri S.K. Sharma,
 learned counsel for Vishal Yadav, PW-23 Virender Kumar
 claimed that on the 17th of February, 2002, he had not seen
 any drag-marks or tyre-marks or shoe-marks around the dead
 body. When questioned by the court, he admitted that he
 had to remove people in the crowd to see whether there were
 any such marks to ascertain where the dead body had come
 from. No such statement is to be found in his examination-
 in-chief. He has further stated that when he removed the
 crowd, he only got space for putting one step. This clearly
 shows that the crowd at the spot was so heavy that PW-23,
 Virender Singh could not even stand at the spot properly.
 The drag marks or shoe marks, if any, would clearly stand
 obliterated by the foot prints of the crowd. 706. The failure of PW-4 Inspector Chander Pal Singh to reflect
 the existence of these bushes in the site plan (Ex.PW4/4) has
 been termed as faulty investigation by the learned Trial
 Judge who has rightly held that no benefit thereof can be
 given to the accused persons. 707. Pursuant to information about the existence of a dead body
 at the spot, Inspector Chander Pal Singh had proceeded to
 the spot to only conduct inquest proceedings under Section
 174 of the Cr.P.C. It has been noted that Inspector Chander
 Pal Singh had only limited powers under Section 174 of the
 Cr.P.C. which were to ascertain whether the person had died Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 403 an unnatural death under suspicious circumstances and if so,
 the apparent cause of the death. Inspector Chander Pal
 Singh was not required to assume the role of an Investigating
 Officer involved in investigating commission of an offence
 on that date. 708. The appellant submitted that in the inquest form, the police
 mentioned that nothing incriminating had been recorded. It
 is necessary to examine the inquest form. The query which
 the person filling the inquest form was required to answer
 was to furnish a list of property and weapons which was
 found on or near the dead body and method of arrangement
 thereof. It does not refer to articles which required a search.
 The evidence on record establishes the huge crowd collected
 near the body for its identification. The evidence establishes
 no search by the police. The answer in the inquest form
 relates to articles on the body or near to it. It cannot possibly
 refer to articles hidden in bushes which have been recovered
 on the 28th of February 2002 on the pointing out of the
 accused persons. 709. The observations of the Supreme Court in ( 2011) 3 SCC
 685, Ramesh and others v. State of Rajasthan in similar
 circumstances deserve to be considered in extenso and read
 as follows: 710. On this aspect, reference may also be made to (2000) 6 SCC
 269, State of Maharashtra v. Damu and others. In this
 case, the Supreme Court had held as follows: - 711. On the same issue, reference may be made to the
 pronouncement of the Supreme Court in (1973) 3 SCC 662,
 Karan Singh v. State of U.P. The factual aspect and the
 findings of the court in para 3 are as follows - ―xxx There was also the fact that the blood
 stained knife (Ext. 5), with which the murder
 was committed was recovered at the instance
 of the appellant. We have not been impressed
 by the argument on behalf of the appellant that
 this evidence is not admissible under the
 provisions of Section 27 of the Evidence Act
 as the police already knew about the place
 where the knife could be found. This argument
 is wholly without substance. This was based
 on the fact that the appellant first told the
 police that he would show them the knife and
 then took them to the place where the knife
 was hidden. We consider that both the courts
 below were undoubtedly right in holding that
 there was no substance in this contention, and
 the evidence regarding the recovery of the
 knife was admissible. The courts below were
 not impressed by the appellant's denial of the
 various facts proved against him and his
 statement that he was in his own village
 Pachkaura at the time of occurrence. We have
 carefully considered the evidence in this case
 and see no reason to differ from the conclusion
 arrived at by the courts below. xxx xxx.‖

 (Emphasis by us) Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 406 712. From the evidence led by the prosecution on record, it would
 appear that there were no combing operations or proper
 searches carried out by the Khurja police on 17th February,
 2002. There were bushes of grass (pattel) of the height of
 between 2 and 3 feet at the spot. The recovered articles were
 hidden in two separate clumps of bushes, concealed from
 prying eyes. 713. The circumstance therefore that the police from Khurja had
 visited the spot to recover the dead body, without finding
 any of the recovered articles would not by itself vitiate the
 genuineness of the recoveries on the 28th of February 2002
 or the validity and admissibility thereof. (iv) Whether Ghaziabad Police visited the spot between 17 th
 and 28th February, 2002? 714. Mr. U.R. Lalit, learned senior counsel for the appellant has
 contended that from the testimony of PW-23 Virender Singh,
 it is established that shortly after the body was discovered,
 the Ghaziabad police came to the spot on 21st February, 2002
 and no article was recovered. It is submitted that this
 supports the defence contention that there actually no article
 to be recovered. 715. Learned senior counsel refers the statement of PW-4
 Inspector Chander Pal Singh to the effect that he met Anil
 Somania on 21st February, 2002. It is contended that this Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 407 statement establishes, without doubt, the fact that the
 Ghaziabad police had information about the case and would
 not have kept quiet. However, this submission fails to
 consider the fact that it was an unidentified body burnt
 beyond recognition that had been recovered by the Khurja
 Police. At that time no one knew that the body was of Nitish
 Katara. 716. On this aspect, our attention has also been drawn to the
 statement of PW-5, Ct. Mudassar Khan from the Khurja
 district who stated that some police officers from Ghaziabad
 had visited only the mortuary on 20th February, 2002. 717. It is in the testimony of PW-4 Inspector Chander Pal Singh
 of the Khurja police station (Vol.1, 67) that on 21st February,
 2002 he had a telephonic conversation with the SO Kavi
 Nagar and that he also talked to him on 21st February, 2002.
 PW-4 however states that he had not taken the Ghaziabad
 police from the CJM office to the place where the dead body
 was found. 718. In the cross-examination by Shri K.N. Balgopal, Advocate
 on behalf of the accused Vikas Yadav, PW-23 Virender
 Singh vaguely stated that one or two days after the discovery
 of the body, he had seen the Ghaziabad police on the spot
 when he was passing from that road. He stated that he had
 stopped his jeep on seeing the police as well as public and Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 408 enquired as to what was happening. So far as identification
 of the police personnel is concerned, the witness had not
 verified from the police but he stated that he had asked the
 same from the public. The witness did not know the name of
 any of the police personnel who were there on that day. The
 witness also claims to have seen a jeep bearing a Ghaziabad
 number from which he deduced that the police was from
 Ghaziabad. This witness was not only the Pradhan of the
 village but claims to have been a Member of the District
 Board between 1987-1992. 719. The witness was explicit about the time at which he saw the
 dead body as well as the details of when he made the police
 report on 17th of February 2002 about the dead body lying at
 the spot. However, he could not give the date or time on
 which he claims to have seen the Ghaziabad police at the
 spot. PW-23, Shri Virender Singh appears to have been clearly
 influenced by the accused persons. There is nothing to
 support his presence at the spot after one or two days of the
 incident. He did not even notice bushes near the dead body.
 Furthermore, so far as seeing the Ghaziabad police at the
 spot after one or two days is concerned, the witness again
 does not say so in his examination-in-chief and made up the
 statement only in his cross-examination without any
 specifics. In any case, the statement of PW-23 that the Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 409 police he claims to have seen at the spot where from
 Ghaziabad is a conjecture. It is clearly unreliable and cannot
 be believed. 720. The learned Trial Judge has held that the manner in which
 the dead body was brought to the pit is not known. There is
 no eye-witness account of what happened. These factual
 details would be in the special knowledge of the accused
 persons. (v) Recoveries from open place accessible to all 721. We have noted above the submission of learned senior
 counsels that the recoveries on the 28th of February have to
 be rejected on the ground that they were effected from an
 open place, accessible to all. They have contended that the
 recoveries deserve to be disregarded for this reason as well. 722. We have already discussed the topography of the area where
 the body was discovered as well as of the place wherefrom
 the recovery is effected. The body was in a ‗khainuma
 gaddha‟. There were several clumps of ‗pattel' bushes in
 the area standing 2 to 3 feet tall. It is in the evidence of SO
 Anil Somania, the Investigating Officer that the hammer was
 recovered by Vikas Yadav 6-7 paces away from where the
 body was recovered by searching amongst ‗pattel' bushes.
 The wrist watch was recovered by Vishal Yadav again after
 searching from another clump of bushes. Neither the Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 410 hammer nor the wrist watch were visible to the eye. It is
 also established on evidence that the bushes were so thick,
 that it was not possible to see the ground below them. 723. SO Anil Somania also describes the location of the spot. He
 has stated that adjacent to the main road there is a ‗kachcha'
 (unmetalled) road; then bushes and then fields. After
 crossing the bushes they had gone to a wheat field. PW-35
 had stated that the distance between the place of recovery of
 the dead body and the wrist watch was 50-20 paces. PW-34
 S.I. J.K. Gangwar corroborates Anil Somania on all scores.
 The witnesses maintained that the accused persons had
 searched for the recovered items in the bushes and taken
 them out. Despite the search, the mobile phone of the
 deceased could not be recovered. The defence was unable to
 dent this testimony of either PW 34 S.I. J.K. Gangwar or PW
 35 Anil Somania. The prosecution has thus established
 beyond doubt that the recovered articles were concealed by
 the accused persons in the bushes, which places were known
 only to them, even though the bushes were growing on open
 land. 724. It is argued by Mr. Dayan Krishnan, learned counsel for the
 State that even if it could be held that the police had searched
 the place without finding the recovered articles when it
 visited the spot when the body was discovered or visited the
 spot again thereafter is inconsequential so far as the legality, Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 411 validity and admissibility of the recoveries in the present
 case are concerned. In this regard, reliance has been placed
 on the pronouncement of the Supreme Court reported in
 ( 2011) 3 SCC 685, Ramesh and others v. State of
 Rajasthan . In this case, different things were recovered on
 different dates from the same place on information received
 from the accused. These recoveries were challenged by the
 accused persons on the ground that the recoveries were
 effected from the same place which had already been visited
 by the police more than once. The court rejected the
 objections holding as follows: - 725. In the instant case as well it is in evidence that the recovered
 articles were hidden and were not visible. But for the
 disclosures and their searching and bringing them out by the
 accused persons, the articles would not have been recovered.
 The later conduct of the accused persons in leading the
 police to places unknown to it and setting the Tata Safari
 vehicle recovered further lends reliability to both the
 disclosure statements as well as the recoveries. 726. Investigating Officer Anil Somania appearing as PW-35 has
 categorically stated that he had not gone to the Khurja Police
 Station on the 17th, 18th or 19th February, 2002 or to the place
 where the dead body was recovered wherefrom recovery of Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 413 the other articles was effected on 28th February, 2002 at the
 instance of the accused persons. He has categorically stated
 that he had not seen the place of recovery beforehand. The
 Investigating Officer Anil Somania has explained in detail
 what he was doing between 21st and 25th February, 2002.
 His testimony remains unchallenged. We see no reason to
 disbelieve the investigating officer that he had not visited the
 spot where the body was recovered from 17th till 28th
 February, 2002. 727. The absolute proposition pressed before us that recovery
 having been effected from an open place, must be
 mandatorily disbelieved, stands rejected by the Supreme
 Court. In this regard Mr. P.K. Dey, learned counsel for the
 complainant has placed reliance on the pronouncement of the
 Supreme Court reported at ( 1999) 4 SCC 370, State of HP v.
 Jeet Singh - ―26. There is nothing in Section 27 of the
 Evidence Act which renders the statement of
 the accused inadmissible if recovery of the
 articles was made from any place which is
 "open or accessible to others". It is a
 fallacious notion that when recovery of any
 incriminating article was made from a place
 which is open or accessible to others, it
 would vitiate the evidence under Section 27 of the Evidence Act. Any object can be
 concealed in places which are open or
 accessible to others. For example, if the
 article is buried on the main roadside or if it is Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 414 concealed beneath dry leaves lying on public
 places or kept hidden in a public office, the
 article would remain out of the visibility of
 others in normal circumstances. Until such
 article is disinterred its hidden state would
 remain unhampered. The person who hid it
 alone knows where it is until he discloses that
 fact to any other person. Hence the crucial
 question is not whether the place was
 accessible to others or not but whether it was
 ordinarily visible to others. If it is not, then it
 is immaterial that the concealed place is
 accessible to others. xxx xxx xxx 28. In the present case, the fact discovered
 by the police with the help of (1) the disclosure
 statements and (2) the recovery of
 incriminating articles on the strength of such
 statements is that it was the accused who
 concealed those articles at the hidden places. It
 is immaterial that such statement of the
 accused is inculpatory because Section 27 of
 the Evidence Act renders even such
 inculpatory statements given to a police officer
 admissible in evidence by employing the
 words: "Whether it amounts to confession or
 not". (Emphasis by us) 728. This judicial pronouncement was followed by the Supreme
 Court in the judgment reported at (2010) 14 SCC 129, Jon
 Pandian v. State wherein it has been held as follows: - Therefore, the fact that the confessional
 statement was made cannot be disputed nor
 can it be disputed that Kumar (A-9) ultimately
 discovered the veechu aruval from the
 cremation ground. 57. It was then urged by the learned
 Counsel that this was a open place and
 anybody could have planted veechu aruval.
 That appears to be a very remote possibility.
 Nobody can simply produce a veechu aruval
 planted under the thorny bush. The discovery
 appears to be credible. It has been accepted by
 both the Courts below and we find no reason
 to discard it. This is apart from the fact that
 this weapon was sent to the Forensic Science
 Laboratory (FSL) and it has been found
 stained with human blood. Though the blood
 group could not be ascertained, as the results
 were inconclusive, the accused had to give
 some explanation as to how the human blood
 came on this weapon. He gave none. This
 discovery would very positively further the
 prosecution case.‖
 (Underlining by us) 729. In the judgment reported at 2000 (56) DRJ (Suppl) 566
 (DB) Tahir and Ors. v. State relied upon by Vishal Yadav Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 416 before us, this court following Jeet Ram (supra) laid down
 the principle thus: - 730. It may be noted that in Tahir and Ors. v. State (supra), the
 court rejected the recovery because the prosecution evidence
 was silent on the aspect as to the manner of concealment and
 the place of concealment. It is not so in the present case. 731. Mr. Sumeet Verma, Advocate appearing for Vikas Yadav
 has relied upon the pronouncement reported at 2008 (1) JCC
 277, Mani v. State of Tamil Nadu; AIR 1963 SC 1113,
 Prabhoo v. State of Uttar Pradesh and 2008 ( 1) SCALE
 399, Sattatiya @ Satish Rajanna Kartalla v. State of
 Maharashtra in support of the submission that there was no
 disclosure statement admissible under Section 27 of the
 Indian Evidence Act nor any recovery pursuant thereto. 732. In 2008 (1) JCC 277, Mani v. State of Tamil Nadu, the
 material objects said to have been produced by accused Nos.
 1 and 2 were recovered about 300 feet away from the dead
 body of Shiva Kumar. The body was discovered on 25 th
 November, 1996. The witness was not certain even as to
 who made what discovery. The court observed that it would
 be impossible to believe that the inspector did not search the
 nearby spots and that all the articles would remain in an open
 and unguarded area till 6th December, 1996 when the
 recovery has been allegedly made. Further, there was
 contradiction with regard to the investigation which was
 carried out. The articles which were so allegedly recovered
 included a blood stained rose colour full sleeves shirt; blood
 stained green colour sweater; blood stained lungi having
 green, red and black stripes and one blood stained koduval
 with human hair. The court had completely disbelieved the
 case of the prosecution on other circumstances including
 motive; failure of the prosecution to prove that the house
 where the blood stains were found belonged to or was
 possessed exclusively by the appellant; that the clothes
 which were recovered belonged to the appellant. It was on a
 consideration of all these factors that the Supreme Court
 observed that the discovery of the relevant articles alleged to
 have been made in the open ground though under the bush
 more than 10 days from the incident would be without any
 credence. In para 20, it was observed that ―it does not stand Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 418 to any reasons that the concerned Investigating Officer did
 not even bother to look hither and thither when the dead
 body was found. We are, therefore, not prepared to accept
 such kind of farcical discovery which has been relied upon
 by the courts below without even taking into consideration
 all the vital facts‖. 733. As noticed above, the court has disbelieved the recoveries in Mani (supra) from a consideration of the entirety of the
 evidence placed on record and the facts which stand
 established. There is a difference between recovering the
 large number of clothes from under a bush as against a wrist
 watch or a hammer hidden in clumps of bushes as in the
 present case. The evidence in the case in hand shows that it
 was not possible to see the ground below the pattel bushes. 734. In AIR 1963 SC 1113, Prabhoo v. State of Uttar Pradesh,
 the court placed reliance on the principles laid down in the
 Privy Council pronouncement in Pulukuri Kotayya v.
 Emperor and in para 10 the court observed that through
 mere production of blood stained articles of the appellant, it
 cannot be concluded that the appellant had committed the
 murder. Even if somebody else had committed the murder
 and the blood stained articles have been kept in the house,
 the appellant might produce the same when interrogated by
 the police. Therefore, it could not be held that the fact of
 production of the articles was consistent only with the guilt Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 419 of the appellant and inconsistent with his innocence. The
 prosecution in the present case is not relying on the sole
 circumstance of the recoveries at the instance of the accused
 persons. Several other circumstances stand established. The
 evidence has to therefore be comprehensively examined
 which exercise we have undertaken. 735. In AIR 2008 SC 1184, Sattatiya @ Satish Rajanna Kartalla
 v. State of Maharashtra , the court disbelieved the
 prosecution theory regarding recovery of a half blade for the
 reason that the same was recovered from the road side
 beneath a wooden board in front of a building. The court
 also examined the material contradictions in the testimony of
 the witness in the context of the last seen evidence. The
 recovery was allegedly effected from an open place and
 everybody had access to the site where the blade was
 recovered. Therefore, it is not the rejection of the recovery
 alone which has weighed with the court in allowing the
 appeal but other circumstances as well. 736. Mr. Sumeet Verma, learned counsel for Vikas Yadav also
 relied upon the Division Bench pronouncement reported at
 1997 Cri. LJ 3813, Puran Lal v. State of U.P. wherein the
 recovery of the head of the deceased and other articles was
 allegedly about 40 paces away from the place where the dead
 body was found and both places were in the field of
 Harbhajan Singh on the bank of the lake. The recovery Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 420 effected on the alleged statement given by the appellant was
 disbelieved on the ground that there were material
 discrepancies in the evidence of the prosecution witnesses.
 There were discrepancies with regard to the timing of the
 PW-10, the Investigating Officer reaching the spot. The
 court observed that the dead body as well as the head of the
 deceased and other articles were found on the border of the
 field of Harbhajan Singh, a place which was accessible to
 all. There was evidence that 40-50 labourers used to work at
 the farm. In this background, it was observed that the place
 being accessible to all, there was no reason why the head and
 other articles would not have been noticed by those who
 have visited the scene of occurrence. In this case, a thorough
 search was made on 13th and 14th April, 1989 and before the
 making of the recovery on the pointing out of the appellant,
 the Investigating Officer had been at the scene of the
 occurrence for about 1 ½ hours. Therefore, it could not be
 said that nobody knew about the head and other articles
 lying at the spot from where the same were allegedly
 recovered. In this background, the Supreme Court observed
 that exclusive knowledge of the head and other articles lying
 at the place of the alleged recovery could not be attributed to
 the appellant. 737. The learned Trial Judge has noticed a pronouncement of the
 Supreme Court reported at 1998 (1) JCC (SC) : 1998 SCC Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 421 (Crl.) 711 State of Punjab v. Sarup Singh which was relied
 upon by the appellants in support of the plea that the
 recoveries were effected from an open place and therefore
 unreliable. In this case, the recovery was effected by the
 Investigating Officer in the presence of the maternal
 grandfather of the deceased. In this background, it was held
 that the recovery was not in the presence of any independent
 person and consequently it was held to be unsafe to rely
 upon the recovery evidence. 738. It is not so in the instant case. The recoveries have been
 effected on the pointing out of the accused persons in the
 presence of the police personnel; public witnesses as well as
 their Advocate, Satpal Yadav. The recovery of the hammer
 was effected at the instance of Vikas Yadav, while the watch
 was recovered at the instance of Vishal Yadav who had
 taken the wrist watch out of another clump bushes that these
 articles were not visible to the public. It is in evidence that
 they had to search for the articles. 739. In the present case the defence did not cross-examine PW- 35, Investigating Officer also on the aspect of the recovery
 of the hammer and the wrist watch. The exact place where
 these two articles were concealed was in the exclusive
 knowledge of the accused persons. It stands established that
 the investigating officer had no prior knowledge about it. 740. The learned Additional Standing counsel for the State has
 also pointed out that given the nature of the place where the
 articles were hidden, it is not of significance that the place
 was not cordoned off by the police. It was a bushy area and
 only the accused persons knew exactly where the articles
 were hidden. 741. On the same issue, reference may usefully be made also to
 the pronouncement of the Apex Court in (2011) 5 SCC 258
 Kulvinder Singh and Anr. v. State of Haryana. In this case,
 on a disclosure made by one of the accused, a blood stained
 barchha was recovered from a sugar cane field. It had been
 thrown at place where it was not visible to all. Motive stood
 distinctly proved. Both the appellants had been seen
 immediately before the occurrence at the place of the
 occurrence and the deceased had come there shortly
 thereafter. They, therefore, had the opportunity to kill the
 deceased. After the occurrence, they were seen running
 together from the place of occurrence. It was held that
 recovery of the blood stained barcha at the disclosure of the
 co-accused Jasvinder Singh was a circumstance which can
 be safely relied upon for the conviction of the appellant. 742. It is therefore well settled that merely because recovery has
 been affected from the place accessible to the public or an
 open place, it is not sufficient to discredit the recovery as not
 being genuine or authentic. 743. The question which has to be answered is as to whether the
 place was ordinarily visible to others. In the instant case,
 there is no evidence at all that the watch and the hammer
 were visible to the public. Therefore, merely because the
 bushes and the ‗pattel' bushes in which the hammer and
 watch were concealed were in a public place would not
 render the recoveries suspicious. (vi) No public witness to recovery examined - effect of 744. Mr. U.R. Lalit, learned senior counsel has argued at some
 length that panchas should have been kept ready by the
 police and taken by the police to the spot. Learned senior
 counsel submits that the police has claimed that two public
 witnesses, Raghu and Aslam, were available at the spot and
 witnessed the recovery. The submission is that it was
 essential for the police to have produced these two public
 witnesses during trial. This not having been done would
 show the evidence of the police with regard to the recoveries
 as tainted and the recoveries would have to be disregarded. 745. Mr. Dayan Krishnan, learned Additional Standing Counsel
 has urged at some length that while effecting a recovery
 under Section 27 of the Indian Evidence Act, there exists no
 legal requirement for public witnesses to be present on the
 spot. In support of this contention, reliance has been placed
 on the pronouncements of the Supreme Court reported at Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 424 ( 2001) 1 SCC 652, State (Govt. of NCT of Delhi) v. Sunil
 and Anr. and 2012 ( 8) SCALE 670, Dr.Sunil Clifford
 Daniel v. State of Punjab (paras 25 and 26) and (2008) 12
 SCC 173, Ashok Kumar Choudhary v. State of Bihar. 746. In (2001) 1 SCC 652, State v. Sunil, the court pointed out
 the distinction between a search conducted by the police to
 find out a thing or document about which the officer
 effecting the search has no prior idea as to where it is kept as
 against a recovery of an object pursuant to information
 supplied by the accused. The discussion and findings of the
 Supreme Court on this aspect shed valuable light on the
 consideration before this court and deserve to be considered
 in extenso. The court held as follows: - 747. The Supreme Court thus has authoritatively laid down that
 there is no requirement in law of obtaining signatures of
 independent witnesses on the record in which the statement
 of an accused is prescribed or on the recovery memo Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 427 regarding the recovery of an object pursuant to the
 disclosure statement made by the accused person. It has also
 been held that the statement cannot be disbelieved only for
 the reason that no public witnesses have been examined by
 th prosecution in support thereof. 748. The effect of non-examination of a public witness to the
 recovery was also considered by the Supreme Court in the
 pronouncement reported at ( 2012) 8 SCALE 670, Dr. Sunil
 Cliford Daniel v State of Punjab placing reliance on earlier
 pronouncement and considering the provisions of Section
 162(1) of the Cr.P.C. and held as follows: - State of Andhra Pradesh : AIR 2003 SC
 2846, this Court once again reconsidered the
 entire issue, and held that merely because the
 recovery memo was not signed by the
 accused, will not vitiate the recovery itself,
 as every case has to be decided on its own
 facts. In the event that the recoveries are
 made pursuant to the disclosure statement
 of the accused, then, despite the fact that the
 statement has not been signed by him, there is
 certainly some truth in what he said, for the
 reason that, the recovery of the material
 objects was made on the basis of his statement.
 The Court further explained this aspect by way
 of its earlier judgment in Jaskaran
 Singh (supra) as, in this case, there was a Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 429 dispute regarding the ownership of a revolver
 and the cartridge recovered therein. The
 prosecution was unable to lead any evidence to
 show that the crime weapon belonged to the
 said Appellant and observations were made by
 this Court in the said context. The court held
 as under: 749. In Dr.Sunil Clifford Daniel (supra), when the appellant
 made a disclosure statement, a panchnama was prepared and
 recovery panchnamas were also made. The same were duly
 signed by two police officials and one independent panch
 witness who was not examined in the trial. The question
 arose before the court with regard to the effect of non-
 examination of this independent panch witness and the
 sanctity of the evidence in respect of the recovery made only
 by the two police officials. The Supreme Court observed
 that only the investigating officer was a competent person to
 answer such query and that it was quite possible that the
 witness was not alive or traceable. With regard to the
 misplaced notion that actions of the police officers should be
 approached with initial distrust, it was also observed in this Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 430 case that no question had been put to the investigating
 officer in his cross-examination as to why the prosecution
 had withheld the said witness. 750. Mr. Dayan Krishnan has urged at length that the fact that
 Raghu and Aslam were not examined during trial by the
 prosecution does not in any manner affect the case of the
 prosecution. It is urged that given the testimony of the
 police witnesses in support of the disclosures and the
 recoveries and there being no legal requirement to examine
 public witnesses in support of both, it is not necessary to
 examine each and every witness with regard to a particular
 fact. Multiplication of evidence is wholly unnecessary and it
 is open to the prosecution to not examine such person who
 will not depose truthfully in the witness box. Placing
 reliance on Section 231 of the Cr.P.C., it is urged that it is
 the prerogative of the prosecution to lead evidence to
 establish its case. 751. Reference in this regard has to be made to the
 pronouncement of the Supreme Court reported in (1975) 3
 SCC 851, Shanker v. State of UP. In this case, the Supreme
 Court rejected a similar objection as has been raised by the
 appellants before this court for non-examination of cited
 witnesses by the prosecution. Two persons who had been
 cited as eye-witnesses by the prosecution were withheld.
 The appellant argued that these eye-witnesses were withheld Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 431 without any reasons and that an adverse inference should be
 drawn that these independent witnesses, if produced, would
 have falsified the account given by PWs 2, 3 and 4.
 Repelling this contention, the court held as follows:- 752. The court also found force in the contention of the
 prosecution that the witnesses were ―won over‖ by the
 accused in the sense that they were not prepared to give
 evidence in the case for fear of their lives or otherwise. 753. On the issue of non-examination of a public witness on an
 aspect on which the police led evidence, our attention has
 been drawn to the pronouncement reported at (2008) 12 SCC
 173, Ashok Kumar Choudhary and others v. State of Bihar
 where in para 7, the Supreme Court observed that ―it will be
 erroneous to lay down as a receipt of universal application
 that non-examination of a public witness by itself gives rise
 to an adverse inference.‖ 754. On the aspect that the prosecution is not bound to examine
 all witnesses cited by it, reliance has been placed on the
 pronouncement reported at (2000) 7 SCC 490, Hukum
 Singh v. State of Rajasthan, wherein the court held as
 follows: - But if the Public Prosecutor got reliable
 information that any one among that category
 would not support the prosecution version he
 is free to state in Court about that fact and skip
 that witness being examined as a prosecution
 witness. It is open to the defence to cite him
 and examine him as defence witness. The
 decision in this regard has to be taken by the
 Public Prosecutor in a fair manner. He can
 interview the witness before hand to enable
 him to know well in advance the stand which Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 434 that particular person would be adopting when
 examined as a witness in Court. 15. A four Judge Bench of this Court has
 stated the above legal position thirty five years
 ago in Masalti v. State of Uttar Pradesh [1964] 8 SCR 133. It is contextually apposite
 to extract the following observation of the
 Bench: 16. The said decision was followed in Bava
 Hajee v. State of Kerala , 1974 CriLJ 755. In Shivaji Sahabrao Bobade v. State of
 Maharashtra , 1973 CriLJ 1783, Krishna Iyer
 J., speaking for a three Judge Bench had struck
 a note of caution that while a Public
 Prosecutor has the freedom "to pick and
 choose" witnesses he should be fair to the
 Court and to the trust. This Court reiterated the
 same position in Dalbir Kaur v. State of
 Punjab , 1977 CriLJ 273.‖ 755. Our attention has been drawn to the pronouncement of the
 Supreme Court reported at (1978) 4 SCC 435, Madan Singh
 v. State of Rajasthan. In para 9 of this pronouncement, the
 court held as follows:- 756. In this case witnesses to the seizure did not support the
 prosecution version. Despite that, the court did not reject the
 prosecution case, but did not place reliance on this evidence.
 Instead the court evaluated the evidence of the investigating
 officer's evidence and found it reliable and accepted the
 prosecution case in view thereof. 757. Non-examination of the public witnesses or cited witnesses
 by the prosecution therefore, does not automatically lead to
 the presumption that they have been withheld for ulterior
 motive. It is always open to defence to apprise the court
 about the non-examination and to make an application to Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 436 seek summoning of these witnesses as court witnesses under Section 311 of the Cr.P.C. Such objection can be pressed
 only if the defence made efforts to have the witness
 summoned as a court witness. Even then, the court would be
 required to scrutinize the credibility and sufficiency of the
 evidence brought on record by the prosecution de hors the
 evidence of the public witness with regard to the facts sought
 to be established. 758. Let us now consider the factual matrix with regard to the
 appearance of Raghu and Aslam. In the instant case, Anil
 Somania, the investigating officer in his cross-examination
 on behalf of Vishal Yadav has stated that after the recovery,
 the recovery memo was prepared first and thereafter the
 wrist watch was kept in a cloth and sealed. He further stated
 that except the two witnesses, Raghu and Aslam, nobody
 else was present in the fields and there was less traffic on the
 road. 759. The witness further stated that Aslam and Raghu, who were
 the public witnesses to the recoveries, were residents of
 Khurja and that they had met him for the first time at the
 spot. Anil Somania further stated that though he had taken
 all possible steps for their production in the court premises,
 yet they did not appear to give evidence. 760. The Supreme Court has commented on the indifferent
 attitude of members of the public in investigation and crimes
 and their reluctance to come forward to depose before the
 courts. In the judgment reported at (1988) Suppl. SCC 686,
 State of U.P. v. Anil Singh , it has been held that it is not
 proper to reject the case for want of corroboration of
 independent witnesses if the case made out is otherwise true
 and acceptable. 761. The failure to examine Raghu and Aslam, witnesses to the
 recoveries, has to be scrutinized having regard to this course
 of conduct. It is first and foremost necessary to scrutinize
 the evidence brought on record with regard to the recoveries
 and examine its creditworthiness. The court would then
 consider whether there is any need for corroboration of the
 evidence on record and to scrutinize the failure to examine
 independent witnesses from this perspective. 762. In the cross-examination by Sh. K.N. Balgopal, senior
 advocate on behalf of Vikas Yadav, the investigating officer
 Anil Somania has mentioned that Raghu and Aslam had met
 him in the court after filing of the challan. In further cross-
 examination, the witness has stated that on the warrants
 issued to these persons it was mentioned that both the
 witnesses were not traceable but the order dated 7 th August,
 2003 revealed that Raghu was personally served and that the
 order also mentioned in detail regarding the whereabouts of Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 438 the other witness. Anil Somania stated that Raghu and
 Aslam did not meet him in the court. 763. The record of the trial court shows that summons for the
 appearance of these witnesses were issued by the court. The
 learned trial judge was constrained to direct bailable
 warrants of arrest to be issued vide order dated 7th August,
 2003. Therefore, the prosecution took several steps to
 procure the presence of Raghu and Asl5am in court.
 However, their appearance could not be secured. It has been
 argued that these witnesses had been won over by the
 accused persons and did not appear for this reason. 764. The very fact that Raghu and Aslam did not appear in the
 court despite coercive process leads to no other conclusion
 except the fact that they had either been won over or were
 scared to do so. It is sufficiently established that the
 prosecution took adequate steps for securing the attendance
 of these witnesses. No adverse finding can be recorded
 against the State for their non-appearance. 765. So far as these two persons are concerned, it is important to
 note that this aspect of the matter has also not been brought
 to the notice of the court by the defence. Despite the
 evidence of the investigating officer proving the disclosure
 statements and the recovery memo on record by the Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 439 investigating officer, no objection was taken that the public
 witnesses had not been examined. 766. It is trite that it is the quality of the prosecution evidence
 which is required to be examined. PW-34, SI J.K. Gangwar
 as well as PW-35 Anil Somania, investigating officer have
 been examined to prove the recoveries. If their testimony is
 found truthful and accepted, there may not be any need for
 other witnesses (including the public witnesses) whose
 evidence would have been repetitive and burdensome. We
 have noted above the evidence of the prosecution witnesses
 including the investigating officers S.I. Anil Somania and
 S.I. J.K. Gangwar which remains unimpeached. 767. It is suggested by the defence that SI J.K. Gangwar at one
 time was posted as a subordinate with Mr. A.K. Kaul (father
 of Nilam Katara). We may note that Shri Kaul is stated to
 have retired 16 years prior to 2002. Therefore the fact that
 Nilam Katara's father was at sometime SI Gangwar's
 superior is also too remote to establish any influence of the
 said Mr. Kaul over the testimony of the investigating officer. 768. In conclusion, we find that the prosecution took all steps
 necessary to secure the appearance of the two witnesses but
 was not successful. We see no reason to disbelieve the
 recoveries of the hammer and wrist watch on the ground that Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 440 public witnesses thereto did not appear in the witness box to
 atleast the recoveries. (vii) Khurja Police not joined in the recoveries 769. An objection has been raised by learned senior counsel on
 behalf of the appellants that the recoveries must be
 disbelieved for the reason that the same were allegedly
 effected by the Ghaziabad police within the jurisdiction of
 police station Khurja. It is contended that no recovery was
 effected by the police of Khurja. The police at Ghaziabad
 had no jurisdiction to conduct investigations in Khurja. The
 action of the Ghaziabad police in conducting the same
 without joining the Khurja police was illegal and must be so
 rejected. 770. Learned Senior Counsel for the appellants have contended
 that no explanation is forthcoming from the record as to how
 the officials from the Police Station at Ghaziabad carried out
 recoveries and seizures at a place which was admittedly
 beyond their jurisdiction and located within the jurisdiction
 of the PS Khurja. It is urged that the fact that the
 prosecution does not disclose the reason why the Khurja
 Police were not joined in the investigation is a material
 factor which indicates that no recoveries were in fact
 effected at the instance of the accused persons. 771. In this regard, our attention has been drawn to the testimony
 of the Investigating Officer, PW-35 Anil Somania who has
 stated that he did not join the Khurja police in the
 investigations and the recoveries effected on 28th February,
 2002. 772. This objection was answered by the prosecution which has
 pointed out that upon the discovery of the dead body, a case
 being Crime No.216 was registered by PS Khurja. PW-4
 Inspector Chander Pal Singh from the police station Khurja
 was the Investigating Officer in the case from 17th February,
 2002 only upto 26th February, 2002. As per the orders of the
 DIG, the case being Crime No.216 was thereafter transferred
 to police station Ghaziabad for investigation. Therefore,
 there was no requirement of taking assistance of the Khurja
 police for effecting recoveries as, in terms of the order of the
 DIG, the jurisdictional police station for investigation of the
 crime was the police station Ghaziabad. 773. It is also evident from the testimony of Inspector C.P. Singh
 that no investigation was conducted by the Khurja police at
 all into the case. 774. The above narration of facts would show that the case related
 to Ghaziabad police station. There is thus substance for the
 submission of learned Additional Standing Counsel for the
 State that there was, therefore, no need to inform or join the Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 442 police at Khurja in the investigation. The recoveries in any
 case cannot be doubted merely because the Khurja Police
 was not joined. 775. In our view therefore it is not possible to doubt the
 authencity of the recoveries on the grounds pressed by the
 appellants. The view we have taken and findings of the ld.
 Trial Judges are supported by the evidence on record and
 authoritative judicial precedents. IV Recovery of Tata Safari vehicle

 The discussion on this subject is being considered under the
 following sub-headings: 776. Pursuant to the disclosure statements Exh.PW35/16 and
 35/17, the other recovery which the police effected at the
 joint instance of both the appellant brothers that of the Tata
 Safari vehicle recorded in the memo (Ex.PW27/1). 777. The prosecution case was that on the 16th of February, 2002,
 Vikas and Vishal Yadav accompanied by Sukhdev Pehlwan
 came in a Tata Safari bearing registration No.PB-07H-0085 Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 443 to the Diamond Palace, Banquet Hall where the marriage of
 PW-11 Shivani Gaur was being solemnized and after the
 abduction of Nitish Katara, they took him away in this
 vehicle. 778. How did a Tata Safari vehicle surface in the whole matter? The first time information about the use of the Tata Safari
 vehicle by the appellants is revealed in the disclosures
 effected by Vikas and Vishal Yadav in their statements
 (Exh.PW-35/16 and Exh.PW-35/17) recorded by the police
 under Section 161 Cr.P.C. on the 25th of February 2002. As
 per these statements, the Tata Safari vehicle belonging to
 Vikas Yadav was allegedly used in the commission of the
 offence. Based on these disclosures, Investigating Officer
 Anil Somania sought the police custody remand of the two
 accused persons to effect recoveries of inter alia the Tata
 Safari. 779. So far as the recovery of the vehicle is concerned, the
 prosecution has relied on the testimony of SI J.K. Gangwar;
 SI Anil Somania and Shri Sultan Singh examined as PWs 34,
 35 and 27 respectively in Vikas Yadav's trial. The police
 officers were examined as PW19 and PW22 in Sukhdev's
 trial respectively. The prosecution did not examine Sultan
 Singh in Sukhdev's trial. The testimony of PW-34 J.K.
 Gangwar whose testimony is corroborated by the evidence Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 444 of PW-35 Anil Somania and their cross-examination on this
 aspect. 780. As per the police record, Ct. Satender Pal Singh as well as
 Ct. Inderjeet had revealed in their statements under Section
 161 of the Cr.P.C. recorded on 4th March, 2002 that on the
 night of 16th/17th February, 2002 at around 12:15 a.m., a Tata
 Safari was seen coming from Diamond Palace towards
 Hapur Chungi occupied by the appellants and one other
 person having a round face, who was wearing a red kurta,
 was also sitting next to the driver. Prior thereto in her
 statement dated 2nd March, 2002 (Exh.PW35/AB) Bharti
 Yadav (PW 38 in the first trial) also disclosed that the
 appellants used a Tata Safari vehicle on the fateful night. 781. Ct. Satender Pal Singh a driver in the police gypsy Chetak
 13 which was parked near the Diamond Palace Banquet Hall
 had also spotted the appellants in the Tata Safari vehicle in
 the night of the 16th/17th of February 2002. Though he did
 not know the registration number of the Tata Safari vehicle
 but he clearly stated that it was of Punjab. 782. We have noted that by the order dated 27th February, 2002
 police custody was granted by the court to effect the
 recoveries of the articles disclosed which included the Tata
 Safari vehicle. Pursuant to the disclosure made by them,
 Vikas Yadav and Vishal Yadav deliberately misled the Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 445 police to three different places in Alwar on the 28th of
 February, 2002 for recovering the vehicle. The police was
 first led to the Maharaja Building, Alwar where the offices
 of the accused persons were situated. Nothing was
 recovered therefrom. Thereafter they led the police party to
 the Siriska Palace Hotel in Alwar, as according to them the
 vehicle and the mobile phone of the deceased would be
 recovered from there. This again turned out to be a fruitless
 exercise. They lastly led the police party to Shanti Kunj, a
 house in Alwar where also no recovery could be effected
 (search memos in this regard were recorded by the police -
 Exh.PW 35/25, PW 35/46 and PW 35/47). As the period of
 the police remand was coming to an end, the police party
 was compelled to return to Ghaziabad. During this sojourn, it
 was disclosed that vehicle may be at Dhanari (U.P),
 Hoshiarpur (Punjab) or Chandigarh. Thus on the 28th of February, 2002, the Tata Safari vehicle
 used by the accused persons as well as the mobile phone of
 the deceased, both of which were disclosed by the accused,
 could not be recovered during the remand. 783. The accused persons were produced before the CJM,
 Ghaziabad and PW-35 Anil Somania made a further
 application (Ex.PW 35/28) on 1st of March, 2002 seeking
 their ten days police remand for effecting the recovery of the
 vehicle and mobile phone. It was also stated that during the Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 446 police remand, the appellants had provided assurance that
 the Tata Safari vehicle could be recovered from Dhanari
 (Budaun) or Hoshiarpur (Punjab) or Chandigarh and had
 further disclosed that the mobile phone of deceased Nitish
 Katara was also in the same car. 784. In the order dated 1st of March, 2002 passed on this
 application, the CJM noted that the accused Vikas Yadav in
 his statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C. had disclosed that
 he could point out the place where the Tata Safari vehicle
 was hidden in Alwar. However, the same could not be
 recovered when the police visited various places in Alwar.
 The court has also noticed that after recovery of the hammer
 and watch, the appellants were lodged in prison after their
 medical examination and that the police did not use the
 remaining time available with them on the previous occasion
 of police remand. The CJM was of the view that the colour
 and the vehicle number was not available and therefore,
 there was no basis for conducting a search for the vehicle in
 different places. The court also noted that as per the accused
 persons, the mobile phone was also in the vehicle. For these
 reasons, the court was of the view that there was no need for
 any further police remand and the prayer of the police in this
 regard was rejected. 785. It is pertinent to note that by a separate order passed on 1st of
 March, 2002, the CJM Ghaziabad directed that as a matter of Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 447 abundant caution, a photocopy of the case diary [from serial
 no. dated 28th February, 2002 (Saat Vark)] be kept in sealed
 cover and the accused persons be informed. Thus the
 disclosure statements became part of court record. 786. A revision was filed being Crl. Rev. No.73/2002 by the State
 in the court of Sessions Judge, Ghaziabad challenging this
 order dated 1st of March, 2002. This revision was opposed on
 behalf of Vishal and Vikas Yadav who even challenged its
 maintainability. The revision was dismissed by an order
 dated 6th of March, 2002 with the following observations :- Thus the revisional court was of the view that only the
 Magistrate could pass an order in this regard. 787. We have extracted these orders to emphasise that the above
 orders making a reference to the disclosure statements given
 by Vikas and Vishal Yadav were passed in the presence of
 the accused persons. The orders refer to recoveries of the
 hammer and watch pursuant thereto and on the pointing out
 of the accused. No protest was made by either Vikas or
 Vishal Yadav about either the making of the disclosure
 statement or the recovery of the articles pursuant thereto at
 their instance or on their pointing out. This by itself would
 be sufficient to completely reject the objections thereto on
 behalf of the appellants. 788. In the meantime, the appellants Vikas and Vishal Yadav
 were required to be produced in the Dabra Court in cases
 under the Arms Act . Accordingly, after their one day police
 remand was over, they were sent to judicial custody and
 thereafter on 6th March, 2002 they were sent to Dabra along Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 449 with SI J.K. Gangwar pursuant to DD No.36 in this regard
 (Ex.PW 35/36). 789. On the 8th of March, 2002, an application was made by the
 co-investigating officer before the CJM, Ghaziabad for five
 days police custody. However, the Chief Judicial Magistrate
 granted police custody remand w.e.f. 2:00 pm on 9 th March,
 2002 till 2:00 pm on 11th March, 2002 only. 790. After this order, a joint application (Ex. DW-6/5) was moved
 on behalf of Vikas and Vishal Yadav on the 8th of March,
 2002 by Shri Neeraj Gautam, Advocate seeking permission
 from the court that two laywers be allowed to accompany the
 accused persons during the 48 hours police remand. This
 application was allowed by an order of the same date. (Ex.
 DW-6/6). Noteably, again, Vikas and Vishal Yadav did not
 dispute either the disclosure statements or the recoveries
 attributed to them. They also laid no claim that they had not
 gone to Shivani Gaur's wedding in a Tata Safari vehicle or
 that they had used a Mercedes car. 791. It is noteworthy that armed with this order, SI Anil Somania
 accompanied by a police force as well as the S.P.,
 Ghaziabad, proceeded to Dabra, where Vikas Yadav and
 Vishal Yadav were lodged in jail. 792. We may now note the manner in which these appellants
 obstructed the police in obtaining their custody. On the 9th Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 450 of March, 2002, PW-35 Anil Somania handed over to the
 court of Judicial Magistrate-I, Dabra a copy of the order
 dated 8th March, 2002 passed by the Chief Judicial
 Magistrate, Ghaziabad regarding police remand of the
 accused persons. The hearing of this application was fixed
 for 1.00 pm. The application was opposed on behalf of the
 accused persons who contended that the directions by the
 Chief Judicial Magistrate, Ghaziabad were not in the name
 of the court in Dabra. This objection was rejected. 793. The Judicial Magistrate, Dabra was informed on behalf of
 the appellants Vikas and Vishal Yadav that they had
 challenged the order of the Chief Judicial Magistrate,
 Ghaziabad by way of the writ petition which was slated for
 hearing at 3.30 pm in the High Court of Allahabad. The
 matter was listed repeatedly thereafter at the instance of the
 accused persons who contended that at 5.15 pm; then at 5.45
 pm hearing in the writ petition was going on. It was only at
 6.25 pm, the Judicial Magistrate noted that no stay order has
 been received and that the application for postponing the
 remand was void (Ex.PW-35/39). But by now it was already
 late for the jail authorities to hand over custody of these
 appellants to the Ghaziabad police. Thus valuable time out
 of the specific period of the police remand permitted by the
 CJM, Ghaziabad was squandered at the instance of these
 accused. 794. The Ghaziabad police could get custody of Vikas Yadav and
 Vishal Yadav only at about 9:26 am on the 10 th of March,
 2002 and they commenced the journey to Chandigarh for
 recovery of the Tata Safari vehicle. While on the way to
 Chandigarh, when the police party stopped for lunch, the
 accused now disclosed to the investigating officer that the
 Tata Safari Car was either parked at the taxi stand behind the
 Shamshan Ghat, Panipat or at his factory in Karnal. It is in
 evidence that Vikas Yadav disclosed the registration number
 of vehicle as PB-07H-0085 and that it was of pearl green
 colour. The police were taken to the taxi stand where again
 no vehicle could be recovered. 795. The Tata Safari Vehicle was finally recovered on 11th March,
 2002 at 11:00 a.m. at the instance of the accused Vikas
 Yadav and Vishal Yadav jointly from the burnt down factory
 premises of a firm named A.B. Coltex in Karnal. It is in
 evidence that Oswal Sugar Limited of which Shri D.P.
 Yadav (father of Vikas Yadav) was one of the directors
 formed part of the management of AB Coltex. The Tata
 Safari bore registration no.PB-07-H-0085 - A recovery
 memo Exh.PW27/1 was scribed which the accused refused
 to sign. 796. It is in the evidence of PW-12 Ms. Kulwant Kaur that the
 recovered vehicle stood registered in the name of Oswal
 Sugar Ltd., PW-9 and CW-1 Shri M.K. Katara proved the Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 452 fact that Sh. Dharam Pal Singh alias Shri D.P. Yadav (father
 of Vikas Yadav) was a Director in the Oswal Sugar Ltd. 797. The seizure memo of the Tata Safari (Exh PW 27/1) does not
 contain the signatures of the accused persons and has been
 challenged on this ground. The Investigating Officer has
 stated that the accused persons had refused to sign the
 seizure memo of the Tata Safari. If the police actually had in
 their possession blank papers bearing the signatures of the
 accused persons, they would very well have scribed the
 disclosure statements and seizure memos on such papers and
 avoided all objections. 798. Vikas Yadav, Vishal Yadav and their advocate also refused
 to sign recovery memo of the vehicle (Ex.PW27/1). The
 investigating officer has made an endorsement to this effect
 on the recovery memo itself. (i) Introduction of a Mercedes car as used by the appellants in
 the night of 16th February, 2002 799. The accused persons claim to have left Diamond Palace
 Banquet Hall in the night of 16th February, 2002 after
 meeting the bride and bridegroom in Vikas's Mercedes. The
 ‗Mercedes' vehicle was introduced for the first time in the
 case at a grossly belated stage in the cross examination of
 PW-42, Bhawna Yadav (sister of Vikas Yadav) recorded on Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 453 28th March, 2007. DW-12 Ashok Gandhi also makes a
 convoluted reference to a Mercedes. 800. We have considered above the fact that Vikas and Vishal
 Yadav in their disclosure statements recorded on 25th of
 February 2002 disclosed that they were using a Tata Safari
 vehicle in the night of 16th of February 2002. Several other
 witnesses including Ct. Satender Pal singh, Ct. Inderjeet
 Singh and Ajay Kumar have also testified about the use of
 the Tata Safari vehicle on the night of 16th / 17th February,
 2002. 801. The accused accompanied by their counsel led the police on
 an inter state trip on the 28th of February 2002 to Alwar,
 Rajasthan for the recovery of this Tata Safari vehicle.
 Thereafter they disclosed that the vehicle could be in U.P. or
 Punjab. On the 9th of March 2002, they led the police team
 way beyond Ghaziabad to Panipat, Haryana, till it was
 finally recovered from burnt factory premises of Vikas
 Yadav's father in Karnal. The appellants were accompanied
 by counsel. 802. It is in evidence that PW 35 Anil Somania recorded the
 statement of Vikas Yadav's sister Bharti Yadav under Section 161 Cr.P.C. on 2nd of March 2008 in the presence of
 their father Shri D.P. Yadav referring to the use of the Tata
 Safari vehicle by the appellants. By then Vikas and Vishal Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 454 Yadav had already been taken by the police on the 28th of
 February, 2002 to Alwar, Rajasthan to search for the Tata
 Safari vehicle. Neither his father nor sister stated that Vikas
 Yadav had left Diamond Palace Banquet Hall in a Mercedes. 803. For a lay person to refer to the vehicle in which Vikas and
 Vishal Yadav had been seen in the night of 16/17 th February,
 2002 as a ‗long vehicle' nowhere rules out the vehicle as
 being the Tata Safari as its dimensions are larger than that of
 an ordinary car. 804. Given the active participation of the accused and their
 lawyers right from the initial stages of the investigation, it is
 impossible that the relatives, friends and counsels of Vikas
 and Vishal Yadav did not know about the several steps taken
 for the recovery of the Tata Safari vehicle including the
 applications for the police custody remand of the accused for
 its recovery and the revision petition before the Sessions
 Judge. No one objected to the applications nor protested its
 seizure on any ground. They did not inform the CJM,
 Ghaziabad that no Tata Safari car was used by them on 27 th
 February; 1st March or 8th March, 2008 when the orders on
 the police remand application were passed. The Sessions
 Court was also not informed on 6th March, 2002 that on the
 night of the 16th February, 2008, they were using a Mercedes
 car. Instead the appellants filed applications that their
 counsels accompany them during the police remand. 805. Till the end of both trials, or even till date, no details or
 particulars of the Mercedes have come on record in terms of
 its registration number, ownership, etc. It is clearly evident
 that the Mercedes has been introduced merely as a red
 herring to controvert the evidence on record about the
 recovered Tata Safari vehicle was really the vehicle used for
 the commission of the offence. (ii) The defence case - the Tata Safari vehicle was under 806. The defence however sought to establish that the Tata Safari
 vehicle recovered at the instance of the appellants was under 807. Mr. Dayan Krishnan, Ld. Additional Standing Counsel for
 the State has pointed out that the defence evidence led with
 regard to Tata Safari car was not believable and was in fact
 false. 808. The appellants examined DW-2 Madhumohan Nair and DW- 9 Shakti Chand who were both employees of the Nawab
 Motors, C-24, Sector-8, Noida to establish this defence. 809. DW-2 Madhumohan Nair sought to prove that the Tata
 Safari vehicle remained with M/s Nawab Motors from 16th
 February, 2002 till 10th March, 2002. In support thereof,
 reliance was placed on job cards and requisition for different
 parts in respect of the vehicle, as reflected in a computer
 statement Ex.DW-2/A. The trial court had noticed that the
 computerized statement was neither legible nor signed by the
 concerned authorized person of the workshop. The
 exhibition of the documents was subject to furnishing of
 legible and attested copies of the same. This was not done.
 The witness was unable to read even the chasis number or
 the engine number of the vehicle from the document (DW-
 2/A). Payments for parts and the works undertaken were in
 cash. So there were no documents to support payments. The
 witness could not recollect as to whether any service tax had
 been paid. The witness was also unable to support the
 submission of motor parts being requisitioned for the said
 vehicle by any entry in the stock register or the store register.
 No contemporaneous record to establish that the said Tata
 Safari had at all entered the gate of Nawab Motors, as
 claimed, was produced. 810. DW-2, Madhumohan Nair gave evidence that as per the
 practice of the firm, at the time of delivery of a vehicle, a
 gate pass was given to the customer which he delivers to the Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 457 guard at the exit gate of the company in order to take away
 his vehicle. 811. To establish that the vehicle was returned on 10th March,
 2002, the appellants are relying on a gate pass issued by
 Nawab Motors. The defence witnesses failed to produce the
 original gate pass to show that the vehicle was returned only
 on 10th March, 2002 which, if existed, ought to have been
 submitted at the exit gate of the workshop when the vehicle
 exitted. 812. The gate pass (Ex.DW-2/3) which was produced, was not
 accompanied by any contemporaneous records of the
 company; the register in which the entries regarding issuance
 of the gate pass is made. The witness did not produce the
 same despite directions to do so. Neither DW-2 nor DW-7
 were personally concerned with issuing the gate pass with
 regard to the vehicle or with regard to requisitioning the
 spare parts. 813. DW-7, Shaktichand, also sought to produce on record
 certain documents of transactions by the electronic mode
 without compliance of the Section 65-B of the Evidence Act.
 The same is legally impermissible. He was unable to render
 any explanation for the manner in which these records are
 maintained. Other related witnesses were also examined by Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 458 the defence including DW8 Gaurav Aggarwal and DW11
 Om Bir Singh. Their testimony is also not believable. 814. DW2 stated that the vehicle was repaired within 3 to 4 days
 after it was received in the company on 16th February, 2002.
 Yet it was delivered only on 10th March, 2002. No repair
 which was so time consuming is revealed in the evidence. 815. DW2 also categorically stated that payments are accepted by
 the company in cash. There is no explanation as to why the
 payment relied upon by the defence was made by cheque. 816. The ld. Trial Judge has closely scrutinized the record and
 held that there is no credible evidence establishing either that
 the vehicle was sent to Nawab Motors for repairs on the 16 th
 of February 2002 or that it was delivered back only on the
 10th of March 2002. 817. The learned Trial Judge has disbelieved the evidence of
 these defence witnesses for the following additional reasons
 as well:- 818. The learned Trial Judge has pointed out that the premises of
 the company A.B. Coltex had been burnt for several years
 before the arrival of the police and the factory was lying
 closed. A question has been raised as to how and why a
 vehicle would be delivered after repairs to premises in such
 condition? This question could not be answered by the
 appellants before us as well. 819. When on 27th February, 2002 and 1st March, 2002, the
 investigating officer, PW-35 Anil Somania moved the
 application for police custody remand of the appellants for
 recovery of the Tata Safari, Shri Rajinder Chaudhary,
 Advocate purporting to be acting on behalf of Vikas Yadav,
 also made an application to the court of the Chief Judicial
 Magistrate Ghaziabad praying that counsel be permitted to
 accompany them. 820. We find that neither the appellants nor their counsels
 informed the Chief Judicial Magistrate's court either on 27th
 of February, 2002 or on 1st of March, 2002 when they were
 present in the court, either that the Tata Safari was not
 involved in the commission of any offence or that the
 vehicle was with the Nawab Motors since 16th February,
 2002. 821. On the contrary, they permitted the Chief Judicial Magistrate
 to grant custody / remand for the recovery of the Tata Safari
 firstly, by order dated 25th February, 2002 and then again by
 the order dated 8th March, 2002. 822. It is also evident from the above narration that if the vehicle
 was actually with the Nawab Motors, since 16 th February,
 2002, Vikas Yadav and Vishal Yadav would have led the
 police to the premises of Nawab Motors at Noida. Instead,
 the very fact that they took the investigating officer to
 Alwar, on the 28th February, 2002; to Panipat on 10th March,
 2002 and then to Karnal on 11th March, 2002 where it was
 recovered that Tata Safari vehicle was not with M/s Nawab
 Motors. 823. No such question or suggestion was put to the investigating
 officers as well when they appeared in the witness box as
 PW 34 S.I. J.K. Gangwar and PW 35 S.I. Anil Somania and
 testified about the vehicle. No question or suggestion in Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 461 either of the trials was put to any other prosecution witness
 that Tata Safari was with the Nawab Motors since 16 th
 February, 2002 as well. 824. In his statement under Section 313 of the Cr.P.C., Vikas
 Yadav has contradictorily stated that the vehicle was left
 with workshop on the late evening of the 15th of February,
 2002 and not on the 16th of February 2002 as stated by the
 defence witnesses. He gives no particulars of the workshop. 825. It is only five years thereafter, that the defence for the first
 time claimed through the testimony of the defence witnesses,
 DW-2, Madhumohan Nair recorded on 5th July, 2007 as
 well as the testimony of DW-7 Shakti Chand and DW-8
 Gautam Aggarwal that the Tata Safari was with the Nawab
 Motors, Noida since 16th February, 2002. 826. So far as PW27 Sultan Singh is concerned, he was a
 signatory to the recovery memo Ex.PW27/1. However, in
 his testimony in court even though he has admitted that
 recovery was effected in his presence, he stated that he had
 signed on a blank paper. This person was an employee of
 Shri D.P. Yadav who was a Director in M/s A.B. Coltex.
 The Trial Judge has rightly concluded that this witness was
 coming to the support of the defence. 827. We agree with the trial judge that the appellants Vikas and
 Vishal Yadav set up a false plea that they had not gone to the Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 462 wedding of Shivani Gaur on the 16th of February, 2002 in a
 Tata Safari vehicle but in a Mercedes car. 828. It therefore, stands established on record that the Tata Safari
 vehicle bearing registration No.PB-07H-0085 stood
 registered in the name of M/s Oswal Sugar Limited, G.T.
 Road, Mukeria Hoshiarpur and that Shri D.P. Yadav, father
 of Vikas Yadav was one of its Directors. The vehicle was
 recovered at the instance of the accused persons at the
 premises of A.B. Coltex, Karnal, a firm in whose
 management Shri D.P. Yadav, father of Shri Vikas Yadav
 had interest. The defence case that the vehicle was under 829. PW-30 Nilam Katara, mother of Nitish has testified that in
 December, 2001 Bharti Yadav had gifted a wrist watch of
 make Esprit to Nitish Katara. The appellant, Vishal Yadav,
 made a disclosure statement on the 25th of February 2002 to
 the effect that he could get a watch recovered. On 28th of
 February 2002, a wrist watch (make Espirit) was in fact
 recovered at the instance of Vishal Yadav from amidst thick
 bushes of ‗Pattel' near the spot where the dead body was
 recovered. A joint recovery memo (Exh.PW-34/1) of the
 hammer as well as the wrist watch was scribed by the
 investigating officer. 830. In order to establish the correctness of the recovery and the
 statement on this aspect made by PW-30 Nilam Katara, the
 prosecution caused a Test Identification Parade (TIP) of the
 recovered watch to be undertaken. In this regard, the
 testimony of PW-7, Ram Lakhan Singh (Special Executive
 Magistrate, Ghaziabad) is relevant. This witness was
 authorized to conduct TIP of persons as well as of property
 and was posted as the Special Executive Magistrate at the
 relevant time. He was approached by the SHO, PS Kavi
 Nagar on 2nd April, 2002 who made a written request for
 getting the identification of the wrist watch from Smt. Nilam
 Katara. The recovered wrist watch (Exh.PW-7/Article 1)
 was produced before PW-7 in a sealed condition. Five
 similar watches brought by a contractor D.D. Aggarwal and
 were mixed up by contractor with the watch in question
 (Exh.PW-7/Article 1). Nilam Katara correctly identified the
 recovered watch (Ex.PW-7/3) as the watch gifted by Bharti
 to Nitish which he was wearing on the night of the 16 th of
 February 2002. The testimony of this witness could not be
 shaken in his cross-examination. After its identification, the
 wrist watch, was again sealed by him. 831. Appearing in the witness box, Nilam Katara has described
 the apparels as well as the accessories which Nitish Katara
 was wearing when he went to attend Shivani Gaur's wedding
 which included the said Espirit wrist watch and a gold chain Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 464 with tiger claw both of which had been gifted to him by
 Bharti in December. The deceased was also carrying his
 mobile phone bearing no.9811283641. 832. Nilam Katara has testified that on 2nd April, 2002 in
 proceedings conducted in the Kacheri, from amongst similar
 watches, she had identified the Espirit wrist watch (Exh.PW-
 7/Article 1) which Nitish was wearing on 16th February,
 2002 when he had gone to attend the marriage of Shivani
 and that had signed the memo of identification of the wrist
 watch (Exh.PW-7/3). In court the witness identified the
 watch Exh.PW7/A-2 as the one worn by Nitish when he had
 gone to attend Shivani's marriage and identified by her on
 2nd April, 2002 during investigation. 833. Nilam Katara was extensively cross-examined by learned
 counsel appearing for Vishal Yadav on her identification of
 the watch. However, the testimony of the witness could not
 be shaken. A suggestion was put to the witness that when
 Nitish Katara had gone to the marriage, he was wearing a
 round watch with a metallic chain which the witness
 categorically denied. The witness insisted that her son was
 wearing the square watch Exh.PW-7/Art.1 which had been
 recovered. She also denied that he was wearing a round
 watch in the photograph of the marriage Exh.PW-6/D-4. 834. The appellants have challenged the recovery of the wrist
 watch at the instance of Vishal Yadav on the ground that
 there was no evidence that the deceased Nitish Katara was
 wearing a wrist watch when he attended the marriage of
 Shivani Gaur. The appellants also challenged identification
 of the wrist watch conducted by PW-7 Shri Ram Lakhan,
 Special Executive Magistrate on the ground that instead of
 mixing similar watches, watches of different makes and
 shapes were mixed up which enabled the witness to identify
 the watch by reading the brand thereof as the watch had been
 planted by her and the police. The appellants have alleged a
 conspiracy on the part of the complainant and the police
 hatched on 20th February, 2002 resulting in incorporation of
 the existence of the wrist watch in the statement of Smt.
 Nilam Katara. The recovery of the watch was challenged on
 the ground that the bill for purchase thereof was not
 produced by the complainant. We have already noted above
 as to why would Nilam Katara do anything to implicate
 innocent persons for the murder of her son instead of
 insisting that the really guilty be punished? There is no
 answer forthcoming to this query. 835. It is also objected that Nitin Katara, brother of the deceased
 was not called upon to effect the identification of the wrist
 watch. So far as this objection is concerned, before the trial
 court, Nitin Katara had expressed inability to identify the Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 466 same and no purpose would have been served by requiring
 him to participate in a TIP. 836. Before examining the testimony of the witness any further, it
 is necessary to note certain proceedings on the record of the
 Trial Court. The prosecution had examined PW-6, Archana Sharma who
 was running a photo studio in the name of Quality Photo
 Service. On the night intervening 16th/17th February, 2002,
 her employee Vijay Kumar (examined as PW-15) had gone
 to the Diamond Palace Banquet Hall for taking still
 photographs and videography of the marriage of Shivani
 Gaur. Vijay had taken the photographs and prepared the
 video which was handed over to her with negatives of the
 same. PW-6 had prepared an album of the photographs
 which was handed over along with negatives to the
 concerned family. The witness stated that the police had
 taken positives of some of the photographs of the marriage.
 Archana Sharma proved the photographs Exh.PW6/2,
 Exh.PW6/3 and Exh.PW6/4 on record as those taken by
 Vijay and given by her to the appellants. The negatives of
 these photographs were collectively proved as Exh.PW6/5.
 It stood established, therefore, that the photograph
 (Exh.PW6/2) was the original copy prepared from one of the
 negatives which was exhibited collectively as Exh.PW6/5. 837. Surprisingly, during her cross-examination by the defence,
 this witness testified that apart from the photographs
 exhibited in the court, she had brought 3-4 other positive
 prints which were not put in the album as they were not
 considered good. The witnesses produced these photographs
 as Exh.PW6/D1 and Exh.PW6/D4. Importantly, the witness
 did not have the negatives of such photographs. 838. Out of these photographs, we are concerned with one
 photograph (Exh.PW6/D3) which was produced by PW-6
 for the first time while under cross examination Exh.PW-
 6/D3 was pressed as an original photograph while PW6/D4
 was its enlarged copy. The defence sought to establish
 before us as well that PW6/2 is actually the photograph
 Exh.PW6/D3 with amendments having been made (in
 Exh.PW6/2) regarding the wrist of the boy standing in the
 photograph wearing a red kurta. In the photograph Exh.PW-
 6/D3, round watch with a metallic chain has been deviously
 added to the wrist of Nitish Katara who featured in the
 photograph as the person wearing a red kurta. 839. The learned Trial Judge has viewed strictly the conduct of
 this witness who has prepared the photographs
 (Exh.PW6/D1 to Exh.PW6/D4) when no such directions
 were given by the court to produce any photographs from a
 photo studio. There was no explanation as to why Archana
 Sharma did not have the negatives of the photographs. Or Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 468 why, if this photograph existed, she did not hand it over to
 the investigataing officer? Without negatives, the Trial
 Court has rightly doubted the genuineness of these
 photographs. 840. During her re-examination by the Special Public Prosecutor
 , PW-6 Archana Sharma admitted that she had prepared
 Exh.PW6/D1 to Exh.PW6/D4 after the police had taken
 away the three negatives (Exh.PW6/5) and that these
 photographs were prepared from positives. She did not
 disclose at whose instance, the photographs were prepared
 and the manner in which they were produced on record
 without any direction from the court. The learned Trial
 Judge has concluded that PW-6 Archana Sharma was acting
 at the instance of the accused persons and that the
 photographs which were produced were not genuine
 photographs. 841. In the witness box, PW-15, Vijay Kumar tried to favour the
 defence by deposing that he had also taken the photograph -
 Exh.PW6/D3 and Exh.PW6/D4 in the marriage of Shivani
 Gaur. But he was unable to support this statement by
 production of any negatives. In response to a court query,
 the witness could not recollect whether he had taken
 photographs in any marriage before or after 16 th February,
 2002. This witness also admitted that a positive print can be
 prepared from another positive print of the photograph. He Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 469 could not state as to whether the photographs shown to him
 had been made from a negative or prepared using a computer
 from positives. Clearly the witness was under the influence
 of the accused persons and made the unfortunate effort to
 support the dishonest efforts of the defence to prove
 morphed photographs as originals. 842. In an attempt to establish that the photograph (Exh.PW6/2)
 was not an original photograph clicked at the wedding of
 Shivani Gaur, the defence also examined DW-15, Vikram
 Garg and DW-16, Mahender Sharma. DW-15 was shown
 the photographs (Exh.PW6/2, Exh.PW6/D3 and
 Exh.PW6/D4) and was asked to identify the original
 amongst them. He replied that Exh.PW6/D3 was the original
 photograph while Exh.PW6/D4 was its enlargement. This
 witness claimed that in the photograph (Exh.PW6/2), certain
 amendments were made in the wrist of the boy who was
 standing in the photograph wearing a red kurta. 843. In photograph - Exh.PW6/D3, the person in the red kurta
 was wearing a wrist watch in his left hand. No such watch
 was visible in the photograph - Ex.PW6/2. In his cross-
 examination by the prosecution, DW-15, Vikram Garg
 admitted that even with eyes which were intact, he could not
 state as to whether the photographs (Exh.PW6/2, PW6/D3
 and PW6/D4) were prepared from negatives or are digital
 photos. He stated that he had to scan it to prove the same. The witness admitted that neither the photographs were
 taken clicked in his presence nor the enlarged copy
 (Ex.PW6/D4) was prepared in his presence. 844. When shown the three negatives (Exh.PW6/5 colly.), the
 witness admitted that Exh.PW6/2 was prepared from one of
 the negatives which was shown to him. The learned Trial
 Judge has noted the interference and the tutoring of DW-15
 on behalf of the appellants at this stage to overcome the clear
 admission by the defence witness. At this stage, Mr. G.K.
 Bharti, Advocate for Vikas Yadav, whispered something into
 the witness' ear whereupon the witness took a somersault
 and stated that as the negative shown to him was small in
 size and four people were appearing in the photograph, and
 so he could not state as to from which negative the
 photograph - Exh.PW6/2 was prepared. 845. DW-15 Vikram Garg admitted that he was seeing the
 photographs - Exh.PW6/2, Exh.PW6/D3 and Ex.PW6/D4 for
 the first time in the court. The witness also admitted that
 jewellery or anything can be added or deleted from the
 photograph by editing. 846. The fact that Exh.PW6/2 was an original photo prepared
 from proven negatives already stood established in the
 testimony of Archana Sharma during the trial. 847. DW-16, Mahender Sharma had enlarged the photograph
 which had been got produced. He stated that he could
 manipulate the photo in any manner given the softwares
 noted above. Even face expressions can be changed and that
 not only wrist watch, even shackles can be shown on the
 hands on the legs of the person in the photo. 848. It appears that permission was sought by the appellants for
 taking enlarged photographs of the photographs filed in
 court by the prosecution. Instead of calling a photographer
 in court for preparation of the enlarged photograph from the
 negatives which were available on record, the defence called
 a computer expert, who with the help of a scanner, took an
 impression of the positive print of the photograph available
 on record. From such positive print, the defence got
 prepared photographs which were got produced on record in
 the testimony of prosecution witness, PW-6 Archana
 Sharma. The photographer who had come to the court, had
 admitted that he could manipulate a photograph in any
 manner. The Trial Court has noted that the softwares
 namely, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Premier etc. were
 available in the market and with these softwares, any
 manipulation of photo, clothes, colour, etc. was possible, that
 accessories could be added or removed from a person.
 These remarks were noted in the cross-examination of PW-7,
 Shri Ram Lakhan, Special Executive Magistrate when the Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 472 defence sought to cross-examine him with regard to the
 photographs. 849. In fact, Nitish Katara is wearing a full sleeved red kurta in
 the photographs. The complete wrist of Nitish Katara is not
 visible for this reason in the original photograph
 (Ex.PW6/2). 850. It is also noteworthy that no suggestion was given to the
 Investigating Officer or Nilam Katara that the photograph
 (Ex.PW6/2) was a manipulated one or that the recovery of
 the Esprit watch was planted upon the accused Vishal
 Yadav. 851. It stands established from the witnesses' testimony that it is
 possible to digitally introduce wrist watches, jewellery, etc.
 on to scanned images and create altered positive
 photographs. The Trial Court has also noted that the defence
 has fabricated the photograph (Ex.PW6/D3) and thereafter to
 mislead the court, got its enlargement (Ex.PW6/D4)
 prepared. The learned Trial Judge has noted the conduct of
 the defence witness. On a consideration of the evidence on
 record, it has been held that Exh.PW6/2 was not the original
 but only a copy with amendments. In these circumstances,
 the learned Trial Judge has correctly concluded that
 Ex.PW6/D3 and Ex.PW6/D4 were morphed photographs
 and were a dishonest attempt of the defence to show that the Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 473 deceased Nitish Katara was not wearing the recovered Esprit
 watch at the time of the marriage of Shivani Gaur but was
 wearing a round watch with a metallic chain. 852. The recovery of the wrist watch of Espirit make at the
 instance of Vishal Yadav on the 28th of February 2002 stands
 established in the statement of the investigating officers,
 PW-4, S.I. J.K. Gangwar and PW-35 Anil Somania. The
 fact that the Esprit watch owned by Nitish Katara was not
 found in his house on the 17th of February 2002 stands
 established in the testimony of his brother, Nitin Katara.
 Nilam Katara, mother of the deceased, established the facts
 that Bharti Yadav had gifted a wrist watch of the Espirit
 make in December, 2001 and also a gold chain with the tiger
 claw pendant; that Nitish was wearing not only the Esprit
 watch but also the golden chain with the pendant of the tiger
 claw when he had gone to attend Shivani Gaur's wedding on
 the night of 16th February, 2002. The Espirit watch which
 was recovered at the instance of Vishal Yadav was identified
 by Nilam Katara before PW-7, Shri Ram Lakhan, Special
 Executive Magistrate as the watch which was worn by the
 deceased on the unfortunate night. This watch was
 identified by Nilam Katara in the court as well and was
 thereupon exhibited as Exh.PW7/Article 2A. The testimony
 of Nilam Katara could not be shaken in the cross-
 examination and she categorically denied that her son was Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 474 wearing a round wrist watch as shown in the photograph -
 Exh.PW6/D3. 853. It has therefore been rightly held in the impugned judgment
 that the wrist watch (Ex.PW7/Article 2A) which was
 recovered by Vishal Yadav on 28th February, 2002 pursuant
 to the disclosure statement (Ex.PW 35/17) was the wrist
 watch worn by Nitish Katara on the night of 16th February,
 2002 when he had gone to attend the marriage of Shivani
 Gaur. VI Whether the recovered hammer was the weapon of
 offence? The discussion on this subject is being considered under the
 following sub-headings: effect thereof (viii) Burns: Whether ante or post mortem (ix) Whether there exist inconsistencies between
 inquest and the post-mortem report? If so, then
 the effect thereof 854. The appellants have submitted that even if the recovery of
 the hammer was to be believed, the prosecution has
 miserably failed to establish that the recovered hammer was
 the weapon of offence. This submission is premised firstly,
 on the argument that PW-3 Dr.Anil Singhal, the doctor who
 conducted the post-mortem has testified that there is less
 chance and less possibility of the single head injury having
 been caused by the hammer since the dimensions of the
 lacerated wound did not tally with the dimensions of the
 hammer and further that a hammer wound would produce a
 depression type of fracture whereas the deceased had
 suffered a comminuted fracture on his scalp. Secondly, it is
 urged that the prosecution has failed to establish that the
 blood on the hammer was of the blood group of the
 deceased. The third submission on behalf of Vikas Yadav is
 that the prosecution has not traced finger prints of the
 appellant on the hammer. The fourth submission pressed
 before us is that the investigating officer did not prepare a
 sketch of the hammer allegedly recovered and also did not Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 476 seek the doctor's opinion during investigation as to whether
 the fatal injury was possible with the hammer. It is
 submitted that this last circumstance renders suspect the very
 claim of the recovery of the hammer by the prosecution. 855. Mr. Dayan Krishnan, learned Additional Standing Counsel
 for the State has, on the other hand, contended that apart
 from the evidence admissible under Section 27 of the Indian
 Evidence Act with regard to the knowledge of the place and
 consequential recovery of the hammer attributable to Vikas
 Yadav, the fact that the hammer recovered at the instance of
 the accused was the weapon used in the commission of the
 offence is amply corroborated by medical and forensic
 evidence. Mr. P.K. Dey, learned counsel appearing for the
 complainant has supported the prosecution case as well. 856. In order to appreciate the rival contentions, it is necessary to
 first and foremost examine the post-mortem report. On the
 18th of February, 2002 at 03.00 p.m, a post-mortem was
 conducted on the recovered dead body by Dr.Anil K.
 Singhal, an orthopaedic surgeon at the District Hospital,
 Bulandshahr since August, 1997,. A request for conducting
 the post-mortem was made by the police to this doctor vide a
 request letter dated 17th February 2002 (Ex. PW-3/1)
 enclosing some additional papers. In the witness box, the
 doctor has testified that a dead body of an unknown male
 person was brought in by Constable Muddasar and Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 477 Constable Mohinder of PS Kotwali Khurja on 18th February,
 2002 in a sealed condition. 857. In his testimony in court, the doctor proved the post-mortem
 report Ex.PW-3/3 and also testified about his observations
 on external and internal examination as well as ante and post
 mortem injuries. 858. As per the post-mortem report Ex. PW-3/3, the examination
 of the body revealed the following: - 2. Antemortem Injuries

Antemortem Injuries: 3. Membranes - congested brain not liquid 4. Brain - congested and lacerated
correspond left side lacerated wound. Soft and pulpi. 5. Base - NAD 6. Vertebrae - Not open 7. Spinal Cord - Not expound 8. Neck - Haemotoma of about ½ ltr. present from skull cavity.
Thorax (sic thorax)
a. Walls, Ribs, Certilages - Burnt
b. Plura - Burnt
c. Larynx, Trachia.... 4. Buccal cavity, teeth, toungue and pharynx - protruded 5. Oesophegus -NAD 6. Contents - empty 7. Small intestine - NAD 8. Large intestine - NAD 9. Gall bladder - full 10. Pancreas 11. Spleen NAD 12. Kidneys 13. Bladder - empty 14. Genitals - NAD
Reason of death
Death due to coma as a result of ante-mortem head injury and
postmortem burn
Place : Bulandshahr
Date : 18.02.2002 -sd- (Anil Singhal)
 Medical Officer

Dead body and P.M. reports after
P.M. examination handed over to
company constable along with
dead body of the P.M.Exam. -sd/- (Anil Singhal) 859. An important fact which requires to be borne in mind is that
 on 18th February, 2002, PW-3 Dr.Anil Singhal was Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 480 conducting a post-mortem on a dead body of an unknown
 person recovered from a roadside. Not only was there
 serious injury on the body but it was also in a badly burnt
 condition, without any clothes and with no means of its
 identification at all. The following discussion would show
 how the post-mortem report and the testimony of PW-3
 reflect the casualness with which the post-mortem has been
 conducted, perhaps influenced by the fact that its identity
 was not known. 860. In the post mortem report the doctor has thus mentioned the
 existence of a comminuted skull fracture. The doctor has
 opined that the injury on the head was sufficient to cause
 death in the ordinary course of nature. 861. Both parties have dealt at length on the nature of the fracture
 injury which was found on the skull of the deceased. The
 submission of the prosecution is that medical literature
 recognizes a comminuted fracture as a complication of a
 depressed fracture and that the emphasis on there being a
 marked distinction between the two, as is being pressed by
 the defence was inconsequential. 862. Given the contentions of both sides, we may firstly examine
 the medical texts placed by parties before us in support of
 their submissions. In order to understand the impact of
 injury to the skull and nature of resultant fracture, reference Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 481 deserves to be made to the Forensic Pathology by Vincent
 J. Di Maio (2nd Edition) (at Page 148-151) which gives the
 following explanations: 863. Our attention has also been drawn to the authoritative text
 Forensic Medicine and Toxicology by J.B. Mukherjee
 wherein depressed and comminuted fractures are described
 by the learned author thus - ―Depressed Fractures

 When the portion of fractured bone is
 driven inwards, it is known as depressed
 fracture. It is often designated as ―fractures a
 la signature‖, as the pattern or shape of the
 fracture often points towards the shape of the
 offending weapon or agent. This type of
 fracture of skull has got great medicolegal
 significance, as it often suggests the probable
 manner of application of violence and also the
 relative position of the victim and the assailant
 at the material moment. Blow with heavy weapon having small
 striking surface such as hammer, knob of
 stick or lathi, axe, brick bat etc. will cause
 localized depressed fracture of the skull when
 its outer table will be driven into the diploe,
 the inner table usually getting fractured Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 483 irregularly with comminution of fragments,
 which will injure the meninges and the brain
 underneath. When a hammer is used, the
 part of the weapon that strikes the skull first
 i.e. (the base of the striking surface nearest
 the assailant), will be driven more deeper
 than the rest of the striking surface; this edge
 will shelve more downwards to the main
 depression, being bordered by a cliff like
 terrace formed by compression of tables of
 skull at the margin of the fracture. The
 depression will be somewhat circular looking,
 more or less like the shape, diameter or
 radius of the hammer. This type of
 depression of the skull will thus suggest the
 position of the assailant. xxx xxx xxx

 Comminuted Fractures
 In this type, the bone gets broken into
 multiple pieces, occurring often as
 complications of fissured or depressed
 fractures. These are usually caused by fall
 from height, traffic accidents or from blows by
 heavy weapons with a large striking surface;
 alternatively by forcible or repeated blows
 more or less over the same area, by weapons
 having a relatively small striking surface.
 This can also result from a kick by an animal
 or by a bullet. When there is no displacement of the
 comminuted fragments, the area will look like
 a spiders' web or mosaic. Fissured fractures
 usually radiate for varying distances from the
 area of comminution in all directions. When
 the violence applied is forcible, the Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 484 comminuted fragments may get displaced; some of them may be recovered from the brain
 substance. Comminuted fractures occur more frequently,
 when the person is struck with head supported,
 than when it is free to move.‖

 (Emphasis supplied)

 It is therefore stated that a hammer blow will cause a
 localized depressed fracture ―with communication of
 fragments which will injure the meninges and the brain
 underneath‖. It is also clear that comminuted fracture is a
 complication of a depressed fracture. In the instant case,
 also there was a lacerated wound in the brain below the skull
 fracture. 864. The learned author (J.B. Mukherjee) has also discussed the
 variation in the resultant injury being dependant on the
 portion of the head which is hit as well as on the strength of
 the impact in the following terms: 865. Mr. Dayan Krishnan, learned Additional Standing Counsel
 has also placed the exposition in Medical Jurisprudence
 and Toxicology (Law, Practice and Procedure) by Dr. K.S.
 Narayan Reddy (3rd Edition, 2010) before us. This learned
 author has stated thus: 866. The position with regard to a comminuted fracture and
 depressed fracture is made succinctly clear by the exposition
 on the same in Lyon's Medical Jurisprudence and
 Toxicology (11th Edition) (as revised by Professor T.D. Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 488 Dogra and Lt. Col. Abhijeet Rudra) where in the distinction
 between the two fractures it is stated thus: 867. Apart from the medical texts noted above, reference may
 usefully be made to the following extract from Modi‟s
 Medical Jurisprudence and Toxicology which the learned
 trial judge has also relied upon- ―(xxii) As per the Modi's Medical
 Jurisprudence and Toxicology ―depressed
 fractures are those in which portions of
 fractured bones are driven inwards into the
 skull cavity. A depressed fracture when
 caused by a heavy instrument with a small
 striking surface is often localised, the shape
 may give valuable information as to the
 weapon used in inflicting it.‖

 ―In comminuted fracture the bone is broken
 into two or more pieces. In the case of
 comminuted fractures the area of comminution
 is frequently oval or circular in shape, the
 included bone may be broken into several
 pieces and one or more of these fragments are
 depressed. These injuries are almost
 invariably caused by blows with heavy
 instruments.‖ 868. PW-3 Dr. Anil Singhal has endorsed the skull fracture on the
 deceased as a comminuted fracture premised on his view that
 there were no pieces of bone. However, in the testimony of
 the doctor, it is confirmed that there were multiple pieces of
 the skull which he did not count. The literature noticed
 above, also indicates that if the bone is in more than two
 pieces, it is called a comminuted fracture, which is only a
 complication of the depressed fracture. Therefore merely
 because the doctor has endorsed comminuted fracture on the
 post mortem report Exh.PW-3/1, it is not conclusive of the
 matter. 869. The medical authorities support the view that the depressed
 fracture is also possible by a hammer blow. Actually a
 comminuted fracture is merely a complication of the
 depressed fracture A hammer blow will cause a localized
 depressed fracture of the skull when its outer table gets
 driven into the diploe, with the inner table getting fractured
 irregularly with comminution of fragments which will injure
 the meninges and the brain underneath. Thus, if the bone is
 in more than two pieces, it is referred to as a comminuted
 fracture. It would thus appear that the two are not in
 completely separate water tight compartments. 870. The nature of the injury is dependent on the portion of head
 which is struck; the extent of force used; whether the head is
 free to move or not amongst other factors. The nature of the
 fracture would also depend on the hardness, shape, thickness
 of the bone as well as curvature, if any, in the impacted body
 surface. (i) Opinion of the doctor - evidentiary value 871. Learned senior counsels and counsels for the appellants have
 urged at some length that the doctor's opinion with regard to
 the nature of the fracture as well as the impossibility of the
 hammer being the weapon of the offence binds the
 prosecution. We therefore propose to examine judicial
 precedents which have considered the question of the Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 491 evidentiary value which is to be attached to a doctor's
 opinion. 872. On the other hand, Mr. Dayan Krishnan, learned Standing
 Counsel as well as Mr. P.K. Dey, learned counsel for the
 complainant have urged that the doctor was himself not clear
 on the medical principles with regard to the nature of the
 fracture and vaguely referred to medical jurisprudence
 without pointing out any medical treaties based on which he
 rendered his opinion. They also dispute the appellants'
 submission that the doctor has opined that the hammer could
 not be the weapon of the offence. 873. So far as the evidence of a medical witness is concerned, he
 is called in as an expert under Section 45 of the Indian
 Evidence Act to render an opinion upon a medical
 examination conducted by him of a person. 874. What is the value of the opinion evidence of a doctor
 conducting the post-mortem? In ( 1992) 3 SCC 204 Madan
 Gopal Kakkad v. Naval Dubey , the medical officer
 appearing as PW 4 had given the opinion that only an
 attempt to rape had been made. The High Court had rejected
 the oral testimony of witnesses which pointed towards rape
 in view of the medical opinion rendered by PW-4. On the
 basis of this opinion, the respondent was found guilty of the
 offence only under Section 354 of the IPC. The Supreme Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 492 Court considered judicial precedents and the weight to be
 attached to such a medical opinion in paras 34-36 of the Madan Gopal Kakkad (supra) and held as under: 875. Mr. Sumeet Verma appearing on behalf of the appellant has
 contended that in view of the factual differences between the
 present case and Madan Gopal Kakkad (supra), the
 discussion and principles laid down in Madan Gopal
 Kakkad (supra) would have no application to the present
 case. The distinction drawn by Mr. Verma is erroneous
 inasmuch as this court is concerned with evaluation of the
 medical opinion given by the doctor and the principles laid
 down by the Supreme Court on evaluation of medical expert
 testimony has to guide our consideration in the instant case
 as well. 876. This question also fell for consideration before the Supreme
 Court in AIR 1999 SC 2416 Mohd. Zahid v. State of Tamil
 Nadu and the court observed as follows: 877. In the judgment reported at (2006) 1 SCC 283 (para 21),
 Vishnu @ Undra v. State of Maharashtra, the court rejected
 the opinion of the doctor with regard to age of the girl in
 view of the evidence of fact from the mouth of her parents
 which was corroborated by the register of date of birth of the
 Greater Bombay Municipal Corporation and the evidence of
 the doctors where the girl was born. The court in para 20
 held as follows: 878. The above principles would bind this court in evaluating the
 medical opinion vis-à-vis the other evidence which has been
 brought on record. 879. In a recent judgment of the Supreme Court of India reported
 at ( 2012) 8 SCC 263, Dayal Singh v. State of Uttaranchal ,
 how the deceased Pyara Singh suffered death was explained
 by PW-2, 4 and 6 eye witnesses whose presence at the spot
 could not be doubted and who had testified about the assault
 by the accused on the deceased with lathis. The doctor who
 conducted the post-mortem, reflected that he had not noticed
 any injuries upon the person of the deceased externally or
 even after opening him up internally. The investigating
 officer had noticed three apparent injuries on the deceased.
 The court observed that the course of events as recorded in
 the investigation pointed more towards the correctness of the
 prosecution case than otherwise. Dayal Singh and other
 accused persons took a stand of complete denial in their
 statements under Section 313 of the Cr.P.C. as well as
 ignorance about whether Pyara Singh had died as a result of
 injuries. In these facts, the Supreme Court authoritatively
 laid down the principles in evaluating expert evidence and
 the duty of the court in its consideration of the evidence: 880. Placing reliance on the aforenoticed observations of the
 Supreme Court in Madan Gopal Kakkad v. Naval Dubey (supra) in para 30 of Dayal Singh (supra), the court held
 that: [See: Forensic Science in Criminal
 Investigation and Trial (Fourth Edition) by
 B.R. Sharma] 32. xxx xxx xxx 33. ......... The skill and experience of an
 expert is the ethos of his opinion, which
 itself should be reasoned and convincing.
 Not to say that no other view would be
 possible, but if the view of the expert has to
 find due weightage in the mind of the Court, it
 has to be well authored and convincing. Dr.
 C.N. Tewari was expected to prepare the post
 mortem report with appropriate reasoning
 and not leave everything to the imagination
 of the Court. He created a serious doubt as to
 the very cause of death of the deceased. His
 report apparently shows an absence of skill Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 499 and experience and was, in fact, a deliberate
 attempt to disguise the investigation. 34. We really need not reiterate various
 judgments which have taken the view that the
 purpose of an expert opinion is primarily to
 assist the Court in arriving at a final
 conclusion. Such report is not binding upon
 the Court. The Court is expected to analyse
 the report, read it in conjunction with the
 other evidence on record and then form its
 final opinion as to whether such report is
 worthy of reliance or not. Just to illustrate this
 point of view, in a given case, there may be
 two diametrically contradictory opinions of
 handwriting experts and both the opinions may
 be well reasoned. In such case, the Court has
 to critically examine the basis, reasoning,
 approach and experience of the expert to come
 to a conclusion as to which of the two reports
 can be safely relied upon by the Court. The
 assistance and value of expert opinion is
 indisputable, but there can be reports which
 are, ex facie, incorrect or deliberately so
 distorted as to render the entire prosecution
 case unbelievable. But if such eye-witnesses
 and other prosecution evidence are
 trustworthy, have credence and are
 consistent with the eye version given by the
 eye-witnesses, the Court will be well within
 its jurisdiction to discard the expert
 opinion. An expert report, duly proved, has
 its evidentiary value but such appreciation
 has to be within the limitations prescribed
 and with careful examination by the Court.
 A complete contradiction or inconsistency
 between the medical evidence and the ocular
 evidence on the one hand and the statement of
 the prosecution witnesses between themselves Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 500 on the other, may result in seriously denting
 the case of the prosecution in its entirety but
 not otherwise." (Emphasis by us) 881. Mr. P.K. Dey, learned counsel for the complainant has also
 supported the arguments on behalf of the prosecution and
 has further urged that the opinion of the doctor is not
 conclusive of the matter and that this court has to form its
 own opinion on the basis of the available material. In
 support thereof, reliance has been placed on the
 pronouncement of the Supreme Court reported on ( 1999) 5
 SCC 96, State of Haryana v. Bhagirath wherein the court
 held thus: 882. It is well settled therefore that the medical expert merely
 rendering a medical opinion is not a witness of fact. The
 evidence of such expert is really of an advisory character,
 merely an ‗opinion' and does not bind the witness of the
 fact. The medical expert is required to put before the court
 the relevant material, informing the court on the technical
 aspects of the case, including explanation of medical
 terminology. The medical expert must provide reasons to
 support his opinion and the result should be directly
 demonstrable. 883. The evidence of a medical expert rests on his ability acquired
 from his special training and experience which enable him to Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 502 place before the court important facts which may otherwise
 escape the attention of the court. 884. The opinion of the medical expert must be reasoned. The
 reason should be based on certain visible evidence and
 properly placed before the court. It is trite that the worth of
 the expert evidence depends largely on the cogency of the
 reasons on which it is based. 885. Perfunctory reports, bereft of reasoning, failing to note
 important observations on the condition of the person
 medically examined; reports carelessly and negligently
 recorded; which are slipshod, inadequate, cryptic would be
 rejected. Such reports and opinion may be a result of a
 deliberate attempt to misdirect the prosecution. 886. Similarly the testimony of the medical expert may be
 contrary to his written report. It may contain material
 additions and improvements, to assist the defence. A solemn
 duty is cast on the court to carefully scrutinize and analyse
 the evidence of the medical expert and the report given by
 him as against the ocular and other evidence on record, with
 regard to the condition of the person or body examined and
 other relevant facts and circumstances. In all eventualities,
 whether the report requires to be accepted or rejected, the
 court must form its own opinion on the merits of the matter,
 bearing in mind that medical jurisprudence is not an exact Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 503 science. It is not possible for a medical expert to opine with
 precision and exactitude as to the exact time of a crime or
 occurrence. 887. The above narration would show that the absolute
 proposition urged on behalf of the appellants that the doctor
 has mentioned the injury on the skull of the deceased as a
 comminuted fracture or that there is less possibility of it
 having been caused by a hammer blow binds this court is not
 supported by authoritative judicial precedents. 888. The opinion given by Dr.Anil Singhal, PW-3 has to be
 examined on the above binding principles and in the
 background of other circumstances which have been brought
 on record. (ii) Nature, shape and size of hammer 889. Let us first and foremost examine the nature, shape and
 dimensions of the hammer, the recovery memo
 (Exh.PW34/1) dated 28th February, 2002. As per this memo,
 the hammer was made of iron; the hammer head was broad
 on one side and narrow on the other side. The relevant
 extract of the description of the hammer in the memo
 (Exh.PW-34/1) reads as follows:- 890. One ‗valisth' is equivalent to span-distance of stretched out
 palm between the tips of a person's thumb and the little
 finger, about ten inches which was the size of the handle of
 the hammer. The hammer head was thus around two male
 fingers wide (approx. 6 cms) and six male fingers long Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 505 (approx. 18 cms). The base of the hammer was square. The
 other side was narrower and blood stained. The doctor has
 nowhere opined that the injury was not possible with the
 hammer. The recovery memo (Exh.PW-34/1) therefore
 explicitly discribes the hammer which was recovered. (iii) Examination of head injury of the deceased 891. Mr. P.K. Dey, learned counsel for the complainant has
 drawn our attention to the placement of a head injury on the
 deceased. The post-mortem report records that there was an
 ante-mortem lacerated wound of 3 x 2 cms on the left side of
 the head of the deceased seven centimeters above the left
 eyebrow. The impact of the blow can be made out from the
 fact that apart from the fracture on the frontal bone, even the
 brain was congested and lacerated, which laceration
 corresponded with the wound on the skull. 892. It is well established that there are significant differences in
 the densities of different bones in the skull. Furthermore,
 medical research has established that there is variation in
 density even amongst different sites of the same bone in the
 skull, be it the parietal, frontal, temporal, occipital or
 zygomatic bone. [Ref: Material Properties of the Human
 Cranial Vault and Zygoma, by Jill Peterson and Paul C.
 Dechow, Texas A and M University System Health Science
 Center Dallas, Texas]. 893. It needs no further elaboration that the type of skull fracture
 that results from use of force depends on several factors
 which, inter alia, includes the shape of the part of the skull
 which is struck; the mobility of the skull; presence of hair;
 whether any coverings on the head (in the nature of cap, hat,
 turban, etc.); the weight and velocity of the weapon; amount
 of force; and variation in the thickness of the bone. 894. Mr. P. K. Dey has submitted that the frontal bone which was
 involved in the present case, forms the forehead and the
 upper part of the orbital cavities in the skull, is thicker than
 the other bones of the skull, and thus it would offer more
 resistance to the pressure of an injury. He refers to Modi's
 authoritative text "A Textbook of Medical Jurisprudence
 and Toxicology" which states that the cranium varies in
 thickness and varies place to place. We find substance
 therefore, in the submission that hammer blow on the frontal
 bone results in radiation of energy and may result in a
 comminuted fracture as a complication or variation of the
 depressed fracture. 895. Learned senior counsel for the appellants have pressed an
 absolute proposition that a hammer blow cannot result in a
 comminuted fracture. Learned senior counsel for the
 appellants have contended that a hammer blow would result
 in a depressed type of fracture alone. 896. However even PW-3 Dr. Anil Singhal has accepted as
 partially correct that comminuted fracture and depressed
 fracture are both caused by hard objects and the use of blunt
 force and that the nature of the fracture depends upon the
 extent of force used. The doctor at another place stated that
 it was written in medical jurisprudence books that a hammer
 would produce a depressed type of fracture. The medical texts extracted above point out that comminuted
 fractures are caused by blunt force applied with high force
 with large surface area of object and depressed fractures are
 caused by hard objects applied with high force, surface area
 of the object to be small and there is possibility of a bone
 piece being separated and going into the skull. 897. Mr.Dey has pointed out that the nature as well as dimensions
 of the injury would depend not only on the nature of the
 body surface which was struck by the weapon, that is,
 whether it was flat or curved surface, but also upon the shape
 and size of the weapon used. It needs no elaboration that the
 left side of the head is not a flat surface. Therefore, a
 hammer impacting the left side of the head striking a curved
 portion of the head (possibly elliptical) and would be able to
 contact only a small surface area. It also cannot be disputed
 that the hitting with the hammer would result in blunt force
 on the body surface. The recovery memo records that there
 was blood on the narrower side of the hammer head. 898. A specific question was put by the Special Prosecutor to the
 doctor as to whether the possibility of the injury inflicted on
 the skull of the deceased having been caused by the hammer
 could be ruled out. The doctor admitted that such possibility
 could not be ruled out. Though the doctor vacillates in the
 cross-examination, when he states that there is less chance of
 the injury being caused by the hammer, the doctor did not
 rule out the possibility of the injury having been caused by
 the hammer. 899. When further cross-examined on the difference between a
 depressed and a comminuted fracture, PW-3 stated that in a
 comminuted fracture, a fracture is in multiple pieces and in a
 wide area, while in a depressed area the fracture is localized
 and is in the shape of instrument used. Further broken
 pieces of the bone go inside the body organs. Clearly this
 doctor was merely attempting to defend his opinion in
 Exh.PW-3/3, even though it may not confirm to authoritative
 medical texts. 900. In the doctor's testimony, there is also evidence that there
 were multiple pieces of the bone which he had not counted.
 PW-3 Dr. Anil Singhal has also not bothered to mention this
 important fact in the post mortem report. The skull fracture
 was on the frontal bone. In his cross examination, the doctor
 reiterated the position that he did not find any piece of bone
 in the skull. The post-mortem records that even the brain Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 509 was congested and lacerated! Haematoma of half litre is
 noted in the post mortem report. The use of extreme force is
 evident from the nature of the fracture; the laceration of the
 brain as well as the presence of the haematoma of half a litre
 in the left skull cavity. The doctor has not bothered to notice
 and mention three essential facts in the post-mortem report
 or to explain the reasons for the lacerations or the
 haemotoma. 901. Dr. Anil Singhal testified that he opined the age of the
 corpse because the police had so mentioned the age on the
 inquest form! At another place, we find reference to the
 dentures without the doctor giving the dates on which
 particular teeth grow in the human body. The doctor notes
 that the stomach was empty without examining the rest of
 the organs and makes no observations about the status of the
 intestines. 902. Mr. P.K. Dey has argued that there was half litre haematoma
 (blood coagulation) in the brain cavity, and since 91% of
 blood is water, this would mean that there was extensive loss
 of blood. He has referred to the textbook "Anatomy and
 Physiology for Nurses"by Evelyn C. Pearce which states the
 following:- Unfortunately the doctor has recorded no reasons for this
 blood loss from the heart. 904. We may also usefully refer to ( 2003) 6 SCC 380 Thaman
 Kumar v. State of Union Territory of Chandigarh , wherein
 the Supreme Court, inter alia, dealt with inconsistency or
 variation between the size and dimensions of the weapon of
 assault and the injury caused on the deceased. In this case, a
 chadar (sheet) was rolled into the shape of a rope and was
 put around the neck of the deceased and pulled from both
 ends. While the ligature mark on the neck of the deceased
 was 1/2 cm, the thickness of the rope (made by twisting a
 chadar) as stated by eye witnesses came to 6/7 cm. It was Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 511 argued before the Supreme Court that therefore the injury
 found on the deceased could not have been caused in a
 manner deposed to by the eyewitnesses and thus there is a
 conflict between the medical evidence and ocular evidence.
 Although involving eye witnesses, this case is similar to the
 case at hand. While rejecting this contention, the Supreme
 Court held as follows: 905. In the present case, when questioned by the prosecutor, we
 find that even PW-3 Dr. Anil Singhal had answered that it
 was true that if there was an injury with a hard object on the
 skull, it was not necessary that the wound should correspond
 with the dimensions of the object. PW-3 further stated that
 he had only mentioned the dimension of the injury but not its
 shape. The doctor was shown the hammer in the witness
 box. Yet the doctor has also not bothered to correlate the
 injury to the hammer head, which was broad on one side and
 narrow on the other side. There was blood on the
 narrowside. 906. In the case in hand, the post mortem report reveals the
 extensive damage caused to not only the skull, but also to the
 brain by the fatal injury of the deceased. It is in the evidence
 of the doctor that there were multiple pieces of the bone. The possibility of the hammer having caused the injury has
 not been ruled out. 907. It was noteworthy that PW-3 Dr. Anil Singhal was not cross- examined on behalf of Vishal Yadav despite opportunity. 908. So far as the cause of death is concerned, the doctor has
 opined that death resulted due to coma as a result of ante-
 mortem head injury and the burns were post-mortem as well. 909. We note one important factor that the learned trial judge has
 physically examined the hammer and compared the
 dimensions of the injury with the small flat surface of the
 hammer. The impugned judgment records that the small flat
 surface of the hammer was almost similar to the dimension
 of the injury and, therefore, it could not be stated that the
 injury on the left frontal bone of the deceased which was
 sufficient to cause death, has not been caused by the
 hammer. The learned Trial Judge has carefully analysed the
 positioning and nature of the injury on the skull of the
 deceased and also concluded that it was not possible that the
 entire base of the weapon would leave a mark in the shape of
 the weapon at the place where it struck the skull. It has been
 noted that the dimension of the wound would be
 approximate to the striking area of the weapon. 910. The above discussion would show that the absolute
 proposition urged on behalf of the appellants that the doctor Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 514 has mentioned the injury on the skull of the deceased as a
 comminuted fracture, which could not have been caused by a
 hammer blow. The same is contrary to the medical
 jurisprudence noted above and has to be rejected. 911. In fact, the doctor has not stated that the injury was not
 possible by the hammer blow. 912. It is important to note that Dr. Anil Singhal was an
 orthopaedic surgeon. He did not have specialized training in
 forensic science, a highly technical subject to render an
 opinion as an expert on the subject. Dr. Anil Singhal was
 therefore really qualified only to make observations about
 the bones and injuries thereto. It was essential for a forensic
 expert to examine the dead body as well as the hammer and
 give an opinion about the injuries and the cause for it. Dr.
 Anil Singhal did not have the expertise to give an
 authoritative opinion on the issue as to whether the hammer
 was the weapon of offence. 913. The post mortem report is hopelessly incomplete. The
 vacillations by the doctor manifest attempts to create doubts.
 But there is no doubt about the single injury on the head of
 the deceased. In fact, the doctor was shown the hammer and
 he himself has stated that the injury was possible by that
 hammer. Unfortunately in his sketch and incomplete report,
 the doctor has not correlated the injury to the size of the Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 515 hammer which could have very well caused the injury to the
 skull of the deceased. In fact the opinion that the fracture
 was a comminuted fracture is contrary to authoritative
 medical texts and conflicts with the observations of the
 doctor himself. The opinion of the doctor on the nature of
 the fracture and that there is less possibility of the injury
 having been caused by the hammer is incorrect and is
 rejected. 914. The conclusion by the learned trial judge that the recovered
 hammer was the weapon of offence is supported by the
 testimony of the doctor, observations in the post mortem
 report, medical tomes and a physical examination of the
 hammer as well as the dimensions of the hammer. (iv) Whether the head injury was possible by a fall? 915. In answer to a question in the cross examination by the
 defence, the doctor has suggested that a wound of the nature
 on the skull of the deceased could be caused when a person
 falls and hits a hard surface/substance/stone. Mr. U.R. Lalit,
 learned senior counsel for the appellants argues that this
 suggestion by the doctor would also negate the prosecution
 case that the hammer was the weapon of offence. 916. If this proposition were to be accepted, it would mean that a
 wound of this nature could be caused when a moving person
 hits a stationary hard surface. 917. Our attention stands drawn by Mr. Dayan Krishnan, learned
 Additional Standing Counsel for the State to medical
 literature and authorities which abounds on the subject and
 shows that when a moving head hits a flat surface, the same
 results in what is termed as `countrecoup injury' and will
 result in a lesion in an area opposite to the point of impact.
 In this regard, Dr. K.S. Narayan Reddy in the afore-noticed
 text states as follows: - 918. J.B. Mukherjee in the Forensic Medicine and Toxicology
 explains the result of a moving head hitting a stationery
 surface as follows: 919. As per Jai Singh P. Modi in the textbook of Medical
 Jurisprudence and Toxicology (24th Edition, 2011) (pages
 587 - 588), "conter-coup injuries which are caused by
 rotation will not occur, if the head is so well fixed that it
 cannot rotate at all when it receives a blow." 920. Ex. PW-3/1, the post-mortem report does not show existence
 of any countrecoup lesions or injuries which would have
 occurred if the skull injury was caused by a fall. There is no
 doubt in the present case so far as the place of force being
 applied on the brain which is identified by the place of the
 fracture. The laceration in the brain were behind the
 fracture. A countercoup laceration shows up opposite to the
 point of contact on the head. Hence the theory as suggested
 by the defence to the doctor of the deceased having fallen on
 a hard surface/substance/stone and suffered the fracture on
 the skull has to be rejected. 921. As per the post mortem report, the tongue of the dead body
 is protruding. Mr P.K. Dey urges that the tongue protrudes if Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 519 the wind pipe or the neck is pressed to immobilize a person.
 It is urged that the fact that the tongue was protruding shows
 that the neck was pressed, and the defence suggestion that
 the injury is caused by a fall is thus belied by this fact as
 well. (v) Failure to ascertain origin of the blood on the hammer 922. It has been objected on behalf of the appellants that the
 prosecution has failed to ascertain the origin of the blood on
 the hammer. It is urged that there is no evidence that the
 blood of the deceased was found on the hammer which
 renders doubtful that it was the weapon of offence. 923. It is not disputed that the recovered hammer was sent for a
 forensic examination to the Forensic Science Laboratory,
 Malviya Nagar, New Delhi-110012 and the forensic report
 (Exh. PW-35/57) dated 29th April, 2002 was received on the
 17th of May 2002 from the laboratory therefrom. As per the
 forensic report, an iron hammer with a wooden handle
 having brownish stains on the iron part of the hammer was
 sent for a forensic examination. This serological report
 dated 29th April, 2002 Exh.PW-35/57 reports that human
 blood was detected on the iron hammer using serological
 techniques. It is well settled that existence of human blood on a weapon
 is an important circumstance to be taken into consideration. 924. The appellants have urged that the failure to ascertain its
 origin, renders the serological finding of no consequence.
 This issue is not res integra. In the judgment reported at
 (1999) 3 SCC 507, paras 25-27), State of Rajasthan v. Teja
 Ram, on this failure of the serologist, the Supreme Court
 held as follows: - (Underlining by us) 925. This judicial pronouncement was followed by the Supreme
 Court in (1999) 9 SCC 581 (para 27) Molai and another v. State of M.P. and in (2001) 2 SCC 205 (para 20) Gura
 Singh v. State of Rajasthan. 926. In Molai and another (Supra), the prosecution had
 recovered a knife at the instance of the accused. It was
 found that it did have human blood but the blood group
 could not be determined. The Supreme Court considered the
 issue as to whether in the absence of determination of blood
 group, it would be unsafe to connect the recovered knife
 with the crime in the instant case and attribute its use by the
 accused persons. Placing reliance on the principle laid down
 by the Supreme Court in Teja Ram (supra), it was held that
 it would be an incriminating circumstance if the blood was
 found to be of human origin. The FSL report had certified
 that the blood on the knife was of human origin. 927. In para 20 of Gura Singh v. State of Rajasthan (supra), on
 the same aspect the Supreme Court observed as follows: - 928. The issue with regard to the effect of failure to match the
 blood on an article with the blood group of an
 injured/deceased person has been authoritatively considered
 by the Supreme Court in the judgment reported at 2012 ( 8)
 SCALE 670, Dr.Sunil Clifford Daniel v. State of Punjab holding as follows: State of Bombay, AIR 1956 SC 51; Raghav
 Prapanna Tripathi v. State of U.P. , AIR 1963
 SC 74; and Teja Ram (supra) observed that a
 failure by the serologist to detect the origin of
 the blood due to dis-integration of the serum,
 does not mean that the blood stuck on the axe
 would not have been human blood at all. xxx
 xxx. 30. Learned Counsel for the Appellant has
 placed very heavy reliance on the judgment of
 this Court in Sattatiya @ Satish Rajanna
 Kartalla v. State of Maharashtra , AIR 2008
 SC 1184, wherein it was held that in case the
 Forensic Science Laboratory Report/Serologist
 Report is unable to make out a case, that the
 blood found on the weapons/clothes recovered,
 is of the same blood group as that of the
 deceased, the same should be treated as a
 serious lacuna in the case of the prosecution. The Appellant cannot be allowed to take the
 benefit of such an observation in the said
 judgment , for the reason that in the
 aforementioned case, the recovery itself was
 doubted and, in addition thereto, the non-
 matching of blood groups was treated to be a
 lacunae and not an independent factor,
 deciding the case. 31. A similar view has been reiterated in a
 recent judgment of this Court in Criminal
 Appeal No. 67 of 2008, Jagroop Singh v. State
 of Punjab, decided on 20.7.2012, wherein it
 was held that, once the recovery is made in
 pursuance of a disclosure statement made by
 the accused, the matching or non-matching of
 blood group (s) loses significance. 32. In John Pandian v. State represented by
 Inspector of Police, Tamil Nadu, (2010) 14
 SCC 129, this Court held: 33. In view of the above, the Court finds it
 impossible to accept the submission that, in
 the absence of the report regarding the
 origin of the blood, the accused cannot be
 convicted, upon an observation that it is
 only because of lapse of time that the
 classification of the blood cannot be
 determined. Therefore, no advantage can be
 conferred upon the accused, to enable him
 to claim any benefit, and the report of dis-
 integration of blood etc. cannot be termed as a
 missing link, on the basis of which, the chain
 of circumstances may be presumed to be
 broken." (Emphasis supplied) Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 526 929. It is argued by the defence that the Investigating Officer did
 not ask for the blood group on the hammer which would
 have identified the source of the blood. The report of the
 Central Forensic Science Laboratory, Biology Division on
 the blood on the hammer (Ex.PW 35/57) is on a printed
 format. The learned Trial Judge has noted that this printed
 format contains the following three columns:- 930. While the first two columns stand filled-up by the
 laboratory, the third has been left blank by it. No fault can
 be attributed to the investigating agency for the same. The
 ld. Trial Judge has observed that only the laboratory could
 have explained the reason thereof and it was open for the
 defence to call for such evidence but it did not do so. It was
 held that therefore nothing would turn on the failure of the
 laboratory to give the blood group of the blood on the
 hammer. 931. The appellants were unable to challenge the categorical
 finding of the laboratory in Exh.PW-35/37 that the blood on
 the hammer head was human blood. It therefore stands
 established that human blood was detected on the hammer
 which was recovered, which is a material circumstance. The failure to ascertain the blood group or to match it with
 that of the deceased or to explain its origin is not a critical
 factor and the accused cannot claim or derive any benefit
 from the same. (vi) Whether the fact that the hammer was not shown to the
 doctor during investigation impacts its admissibility in
 evidence or evidentiary value? 932. Learned senior counsels for the appellants have contended at
 some length that the prosecution was unable to justify the
 lapse of not sending the recovered hammer to the post-
 mortem doctor for eliciting his opinion on whether it was
 possible to inflict the fatal injury by it. It was contended that
 the same casts doubt on the recovery having been effected,
 as well as suggests that the prosecution was not confident of
 getting a favourable opinion. 933. In this regard, Mr. Dayan Krishnan, ld. Additional Standing
 Counsel for the State has drawn our attention to the fact that
 the body was recovered on 17th February, 2002 and the post-
 mortem was conducted on the 18th of February 2002. The
 hammer was recovered thereafter only on the 28th February,
 2002. In this background, the recovery cannot be doubted
 for the reason that the hammer was not shown to the doctor
 who conducted the post-mortem. 934. Mr. Dayan Krishnan, learned Additional Standing counsel
 for the State has urged that there is no legal requirement that Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 528 a weapon of crime has to be mandatorily shown to the doctor
 during investigation. It is contended that law requires that
 the weapon of crime must be shown and opinion elicited
 during the testimony in court. In this regard, reliance has
 been placed on the pronouncements reported at ( 1976) 1
 SCC 172 Kartarey and Ors. v. State of Uttar Pradesh (para 26) and (2010) 6 SCC 525 (para 14) Niranjan Panja v.
 State of West Bengal . 935. In ( 2010) 6 SCC 525, Niranjan Panja v. State of West
 Bengal , the murder weapon was never produced before the
 court and necessary witnesses were not examined. There
 was hardly any evidence of recovery of the so-called
 weapon. The Supreme Court held that the High Court
 wrongly accepted the evidence of the recovery of the so-
 called murder weapon as the said recovery could not be
 relied upon in the absence of the weapon being produced in
 the court. The doctor's opinion about the injury being
 possible by the weapon was held to be unacceptable as the
 weapon was not shown to the doctor in the court. Consequently in Niranjan Panja (supra), the Supreme Court
 ruled thus: - (Emphasis supplied) 936. In ( 1976) 1 SCC 172, Kartarey and others v. State of Uttar
 Pradesh , the ‗chhura' recovered from one of the co-accused
 was neither shown to the medical witness nor was his
 opinion specifically invited as to whether all or any of the
 injuries caused could be with that weapon. The court Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 530 emphasized the importance of eliciting the opinion of the
 medical witness on the aspect of the possibility of the
 injuries having occurred with the alleged weapon of offence
 in the following terms: - (Emphasis by us) 937. The issue which is pressed by the appellants before us is that
 the failure to obtain an opinion of the doctor with regard to
 the recovered weapon and the fatal injury during
 investigation is critical to the case. There is no statutory Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 531 provision on this aspect. A reading of the judicial
 pronouncements on the subject noticed hereinabove, lends
 support to the view that the failure to seek an opinion of the
 medical expert on alleged weapon during investigation is an
 important circumstance which has been examined in the
 context of the other evidence produced on record. 938. It is however trite that having elicited an opinion during
 investigation would not by itself sufficient and that the
 alleged weapon of offence has to be put to the expert in the
 witness box. The mandate of law is that it is the duty of the
 court as much as that of the prosecution to ensure that an
 alleged weapon of offence is put to the medical expert and
 his opinion elicited as to whether injuries were possible to
 have been inflicted by the weapon or not. 939. A medical witness is only an expert witness who tenders his
 opinion on his evaluation of the facts and circumstances
 proved on record. His testimony is not evidence of fact and,
 therefore, it is open to the court to rely on other forensic and
 ocular evidence to arrive at its own conclusions. 940. In the instant case, the alleged weapon of offence was
 subject to a forensic examination and the report thereof has
 been proved during trial. The hammer was shown to the
 doctor in court as well as his opinion elicited thereon.
 Therefore, the failure to show the hammer to the doctor Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 532 during the course of investigation is not a circumstance on
 which the recovery of the hammer could be doubted or
 would negate the finding that it was the weapon of offence. (vii) Failure to prepare a sketch of the hammer (Exh.P-1) at the
 time of its alleged recovery - effect thereof 941. Mr. U.R. Lalit, learned senior counsel appearing for Vikas
 Yadav has urged that no sketch of the hammer (Exh.P-1)
 was prepared or is available which would have facilitated
 confirmation of its identity at the trial. It is urged that the
 failure to prepare a sketch is yet another important
 circumstance which casts a doubt over the recovery of the
 hammer and authenticity of the hammer which was produced
 in court. 942. To examine this objection, it is essential to refer to the
 recovery memo Exh. PW-34/1 prepared at the time of the
 recovery of the hammer which has been extracted by us. We
 have found that Exh.PW-34/1 contains a detailed description
 of the hammer including its dimensions and shape. All
 details which enable identification of the hammer have been
 recorded in the recovery memo, thereby excluding all
 possibility of doubt as to the identity of the hammer. The
 unshaken testimony of the investigating officer who proved
 the hammer as the one recovered by the accused is also
 reliable and trustworthy. Therefore, failure to prepare the Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 533 sketch could at the most be considered a lapse by the
 investigating officer. (viii) Burns: Whether ante or post mortem 943. This, point though not orally argued, however, Mr. R.K.
 Kapoor, learned counsel for Sukhdev Yadav has placed it in
 his written submission. 944. So far as this issue is concerned, it is again necessary to refer
 to the testimony of PW-3 Dr.Anil Singhal who has
 categorically opined that the death was due to coma as a
 result of ante-mortem head injury and that the burns were
 post-mortem. He has further explained that the coma was a
 result of head injury and that at different levels of coma, the
 person may be alive. The doctor has explained his
 conclusion as to why the burns were post-mortem by the fact
 that there was absence of redness and vesicles. The doctor
 had conceded that he had not checked the trachea for
 existence of carbon or soot which would have been there if
 the burns were ante mortem. The doctor also does not
 describe the kind and degree of the burns, except noting that
 they were present all over the body. 945. The absence of vesicles is not a conclusive test to conclude
 whether the burns were post-mortem or ante-mortem (Ref
 Tailor's Principles and Drugs of Medical Jurisprudence, 12th
 Edition, page 332 J.B. Mukherjee (supra) page 430). Shri Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 534 J.B. Mukherjee in his authoritative (at page 430-432) has
 noted that, in very badly charred bodies, the distinction
 between ante-mortem burns and post-mortem burns is
 difficult. 946. The opinion given by the doctor as regards the coma
 supports his finding that the burns were post-mortem. The
 post-mortem report which was recorded on the examination
 of the dead body also records that the burns were post-
 mortem. This position was not challenged by any of the
 appellants in either trial. No argument was laid before the
 trial court or even before this court on this aspect. 947. A perusal of the third charge framed against the appellant
 also shows that the appellant proceeded to trial on the
 assumption that the burns were post-mortem which has
 never been challenged at any stage. In view thereof, such a
 challenge is not available to the appellant in the present
 proceedings and at this stage. (ix) Whether there exist inconsistencies between inquest and
 the post-mortem report? If so, then the effect thereof 948. A letter requesting the post-mortem (Exh.PW-3/2) of the
 unidentified dead body was prepared by Inspector Chander
 Pal Singh of the Police Station Khurja. The request letter
 with the inquest report (Exh.PW-2/A) and the relevant
 papers were sent with the body for the post-mortem. FIR Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 535 No.216/02 was registered on 19th February, 2002 at the
 Police Station Khurja and the investigation was taken up by
 PW-4 Insp. Chander Pal Singh. After receipt of the report of
 the post-mortem, the case was registered under Section
 302 / 201 of the IPC which was mentioned in DD No. 46 at
 20.30 hours on 19th February, 2002 (Exh.PW-3/2B). 949. The head proficient was called upon to take finger prints of
 the dead body in the mortuary who had reported on the back
 of Exh.PW-3/2 that on account of the burning of the skin of
 the fingers, it was not possible to get any fingerprint of the
 deceased. 950. Mr. Ravinder Kumar Kapoor, learned counsel for the
 appellant, Sukhdev Yadav has raised an argument that there
 was inconsistency between the inquest report and the post-
 mortem report. It was contended that certain injuries
 recorded in the post-mortem report find no mention in the
 inquest report. 951. Mr Kapoor, states that there is no head injury as per the
 inquest report. It is submitted that there was no head injury
 also in the photograph of the dead body (Ex PW 3/2) while
 the post mortem report mentions the existence of the
 ―lacerated injury on the head, 3 cms by 2 cms, left side of
 head about 7 cms above left eye brow, cavity deep‖. 952. On the other hand, placing reliance on the pronouncement of
 the Supreme Court in ( 2009) 6 SCC 600, State of UP v.
 Shobhnath and (2010) 10 SCC 374, Sambhu Das v. State
 of Assam, Mr. Dayan Krishnan has contended that merely
 because there exists a discrepancy between the endorsements
 in an inquest report and those contained in a post-mortem
 report will not cast any doubt on the veracity of the post-
 mortem report. 953. In (2009) 6 SCC 600, State of Uttar Pradesh v. Shobhanath
 and others, the court pointed out the fact that the inquest
 report is prepared by the police who are not experts as
 doctors, and held that the inquest report was not admissible
 in evidence. It was observed by the court thus: (Underlining by us) Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 537 The inquest report being inadmissible in evidence for this
 reason, discrepancies with the post mortem report cannot
 impact the veracity of the prosecution case. 954. In (2010) 10 SCC 374, Sambhu Das alias Bijoy Das and
 another v. State of Assam , the court again had occasion to
 consider the impact of discrepancies between the inquest
 report and a post-mortem report and placing reliance on
 precedents laid down the legal position as follows: 25. This Court has consistently held that
 Inquest Report cannot be treated as substantive
 evidence but may be utilized for contradicting
 the witnesses of the Inquest..." (Underlining by us) 955. In view of the above enunciation of law, it is well-settled
 that an inquest report is prepared by the police who are not
 medical experts. It is not a substantial piece of evidence. No Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 539 weightage can be given to such reports or the errors
 contained therein. 956. Given the afore-noticed legal position so far as the present
 consideration is concerned, nothing also would turn the
 objection on behalf of the appellant-Sukhdev Yadav or the
 other appellants that there were inconsistencies between the
 inquest report and the post-mortem report. 957. The inquest report could at the most have been utilized for
 contradicting the witnesses of the inquest. But it was not
 done so. For this reason as well, the submission of the
 appellant premised on contradictions between the inquest
 report and the post mortem has to be rejected. VII Whether Nitish Katara was last seen alive in the
 company of the appellants? The discussion on this subject is being considered under the
 following sub-headings: 958. The prosecution case of the deceased having been seen alive
 in the company of the three appellants in the Tata Safari
 vehicle driven by Vikas Yadav shortly before his death and
 discovery of his dead body, can be divided into different
 stages - the first being at the wedding venue; secondly, a
 little distance outside the venue by Constables Inderjeet
 Singh and Satender Pal Singh who were part of a police
 patrol car Chetak 13 and thirdly by Ajay Kumar Katara at
 Hapur Chungi around 12:15/12:30 am. The appellants
 submit that there is no credible evidence of any of the above
 as the prosecution evidence on the same has to be discarded. 959. Mr. U.R. Lalit, learned senior counsel has urged that the
 prosecution case is that the deceased Nitish Katara and the
 appellants Vikas and Vishal Yadav left the Diamond
 Banquet Hall between 12-12.20 a.m. The prosecution
 examined PW-19 Jai Prakash Pandey, a Security Guard;
 PW-31 Umesh Sharma, also a Security Guard; PW-28
 Constable Inderjit Singh and PW-32 Ct. Satender Pal Singh
 in this regard. Our attention has also been drawn to the
 statement of Bharat Diwakar athat Nitish Katara was called
 away while he was eating dinner with Gaurav Gupta and
 him, at 11/11:30 pm. PW-26 Gaurav Gupta to the effect that Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 541 the deceased left the place where he was eating dinner at
 about 12/12.15 a.m. 960. As per the prosecution case the appellants and Nitish were
 next spotted a little distance away from the Banquet Hall at
 12/12:15 am by Ct. Inderjeet Singh and Ct. Satender Pal
 Singh who were part of the police patrol team in police
 Gypsy Chetak 13. 961. It is further submitted that PW-33 Ajay Katara has testified
 that around 12.20 a.m./12.30 a.m. on the night intervening
 16/17th February, 2002, he had seen the deceased Nitish
 Katara with Vikas and Vishal Yadav as well as Sukhdev @
 Pehalwan in a Tata Safari vehicle at the Hapur Chungi. 962. As against the above, PW-11 Shivani Gaur, the bride; PW- 42 Bhawna Yadav and PW-32 Bharti Singh/Yadav have
 stated that the deceased was still at the Banquet Hall at
 around 1.30 a.m. 963. Learned senior counsel has also pointed out that PW-19 Jai
 Prakash Pandey and PW-31 Umesh Sharma on the one hand
 and PW-11 Shivani Gaur, PW-38 Bharti Yadav and PW-42
 Bhawna Yadav on the other have been disbelieved by the
 learned Trial Judge in this behalf. 964. Mr. Lalit has submitted that the statement made by PW-11
 Shivani Gaur is corroborated by the testimony of PW-38 Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 542 Bharti who stated that after midnight, at about 1/1.30 a.m.
 after most of the guests had left, she along with her friends
 including Nitish Katara had taken dinner. She had also
 stated that the appellants Vikas Yadav and Vishal Yadav
 had come early and went away without dinner. 965. On the same issue Mr. Lalit relies on the evidence of PW-42
 Bhawna Yadav who stated that Vikas and Vishal Yadav
 reached the wedding venue around 10.30/10.45 p.m. and left
 after 10-15 minutes at around 11 p.m. in a black Mercedes
 car. PW-42 had also stated that when she had dinner around
 1 a.m., Nitish Katara was with them but he did not eat dinner
 with them. Shivani Gaur (examined as PW-11 in the first trial and as
 PW-7 in Sukhdev's trial) has stood by the testimony given
 by her in Vikas and Vishal Yadav's trial and maintained that
 she had seen Nitish Katara around 01.15/01.30 a.m. of 17th
 February, 2002 while she was leaving for her phera
 ceremony. It has been argued by Mr. Ravinder Kumar
 Kapoor that PW-7 Shivani Gaur was the witness who had
 last seen the deceased person alive and not the other
 witnesses examined by the prosecution. 966. It has been argued by Mr. Jethmalani that the one
 circumstance sought to be proved by the prosecution against
 Vishal Yadav is to the effect that he had taken away the Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 543 deceased when he was eating dinner with his friends Bharat
 Diwakar and Gaurav Gupta. It is urged that Bharat Diwakar
 appearing as PW 25 had failed to identify the accused as this
 person in court. Learned senior counsel would contend that
 if two views on a construction of the evidence are possible,
 the view favourable to the accused must be adopted. 967. On behalf of appellant Vishal Yadav it is submitted by Mr.
 Ram Jethmalani, learned senior counsel that the prosecution
 has attempted to establish that the deceased was last seen
 alive in the company of the accused persons firstly outside
 the Diamond Palace Banquet Hall; and then around 12 or
 12.30 a.m. in the night intervening 16/17th February, 2002 by
 Ajay Katara near the Hapur Chungi. The deceased was
 found murdered around 9:30 a.m. on 17th February, 2002. 968. Learned senior counsel has urged that even if the testimony
 of PW-33 Ajay Kumar was to be accepted, there was no
 admissible evidence that from 12.20 a.m. the deceased was
 continuously in the company of Vishal Yadav. 969. Mr. Jethmalani has drawn our attention to the testimony of
 PW-35 Investigating Officer Anil Somania. It is pointed out
 that PW-35 started investigation in the case on 17th and 18th
 February, 2002 and has stated that he searched for Vikas and
 Vishal Yadav but neither the accused nor the deceased were
 traceable. Anil Somania stated that on the 17th of February Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 544 2002, he came to Delhi at Kothi No.15, Balwant Rai Mehta
 Lane which was allotted to Shri D.P. Yadav, father of Vikas
 Yadav who was an M.P. but could not trace the accused
 persons even at this accommodation. However, one Kamal
 Kishore met him at the Balwant Rai Mehta Lane residence
 who was brought to the Police Station Tilak Marg and his
 statement was recorded there (Exh.PW-35/4). The witness
 stated that Kamal Kishore was working as a security guard
 of Shri D.P. Yadav, M.P. at Delhi. 970. Before this court, it has been urged that the exhibited
 statement of Kamal Kishore recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C. showed that at 1:00/1:30 a.m. Vikas Yadav and the
 deceased Nitish Katara had come to the Balwant Rai Mehta
 Lane premises of Shri D.P. Yadav with the driver Anil. It is
 urged that therefore there is evidence that Vishal had parted
 company with Vikas Yadav. Mr. Jethmalani has also
 contended that the statement of Kamal Kishore showed that
 Nitish Katara was alive at 1.30 a.m. and that he was in the
 company of Vikas Yadav only. 971. It is urged that in view of the above, no reliance can be
 placed on the testimony of PW-33 Ajay Kumar to support
 the plea that the deceased was last seen alive in the company
 of both Vikas and Vishal Yadav. It is urged that the
 prosecutor did not examine Kamal Kishore as a witness Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 545 because he wanted to charge Vishal Yadav as the second
 accused. 972. Learned senior counsel would contend that the only evidence
 against Vishal Yadav was that he had been seen at the
 wedding of Shivani Gaur in the company of Vikas Yadav, at
 the gate of the Banquet Hall as well as at the Hapur Chungi
 and there was no evidence at all that Vishal Yadav did not
 part company with Vikas Yadav thereafter. 973. Learned senior counsel has urged at some length that the
 testimony of Ajay Kumar (PW-33) deserves to be
 disbelieved also for the reason that prior to March, 2002,
 witnesses merely referred to a long car. There was no
 reference whatsoever to a Tata Safari vehicle and that a
 reference to a Tata Safari is made only in statements
 recorded after a Tata Safari vehicle was recovered in March,
 2002, clearly manifesting the concerted effort on the part of
 the prosecution to frame Vishal Yadav in a false case after
 setting up the recovery of the vehicle. In this regard, learned
 senior counsel has referred to the evidence of PW-19 Jai
 Prakash Pandey, a security guard at the Banquet Hall who
 was declared hostile and was cross-examined by the
 prosecutor. 974. Mr. Jethmalani has argued that in this background, the
 evidence of the deceased and the accused having been seen Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 546 together at a marriage before getting into a car or thereafter
 is no evidence of the deceased having been last seen alive in
 the company of the accused persons. 975. Learned senior counsel has also placed reliance on the
 pronouncement of the Supreme Court reported at 2002 ( 6)
 SCALE 266 Bodh Raj @ Bodha and Ors. v. State of
 Jammu and Kashmir . In this case, the Supreme Court stated
 as follows: 976. In the pronouncement reported at (2006) 10 SCC 681 titled Trimukh Maroti Kirkan v. State of Maharashtra , the
 Supreme Court stated as follows: 977. This well settled principle was reiterated by the Supreme
 Court in the judgment reported at (2011) 11 SCC 754, Sk.
 Yusuf v. State of West Bengal placing reliance on the earlier Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 548 pronouncement reported at (2008) 15 SCC 449, Mohd. Azad
 alias Samin v. State of West Bengal and (2011) 3 SCC 109,
 State through Central Bureau of Investigation v.
 Mahender Singh Dahiya . 978. In support of the submission that the evidence led by the
 prosecution was wholly insufficient on the issue of the
 deceased having been last seen alive in the company of the
 appellants, reliance has been placed by Mr. U.R. Lalit on the
 pronouncement reported at ( 2007) 3 SCC 755 State of Goa
 v. Sanjay Thakran wherein it was held thus: 979. Reliance was also placed by Mr. Jethmalani, Sr. Advocate
 on a judgment of this court reported at 2000 (56) DRJ
 (Suppl) 566 (DB) Tahir and Ors. v. State. In para 13 of this
 judgment, the court held thus: - 980. On the issue of last seen evidence, Mr. Jethmalani learned
 senior counsel has also placed strong reliance on the
 pronouncement of the Bombay High Court reported at
 (2000) Vol. 102 ( 2) Bom.L.R. 188 Slim Babamiya Sutar
 ALIAS Jamadar v. The State of Maharashtra wherein the
 principle was succinctly laid down in the following terms :- 981. There can be no dispute with the principles laid down in the
 judicial precedents placed before us so far as the last seen
 alive theory is concerned. The evidence led by the
 prosecution has to be tested on these binding principles
 which we commence hereafter. (i) Presence of Nitish Katara as well as the appellants at
 Shivani Gaur‟s wedding at the same time 982. It is the case of the prosecution that the accused Vikas and
 Vishal Yadav were present at the wedding celebrations of
 PW-11 Shivani Gaur from where they abducted the deceased
 Nitish Katara and that the deceased was last seen alive in the
 company of Vikas and Vishal Yadav alongwith Sukhdev
 Pehlwan. 983. The prosecution case rests on the evidence of the deceased
 having been last seen alive at and outside the venue of the
 wedding of Shivani Gaur and Amit Arora in the company of
 the appellants. The evidence in this regard revolves around
 the departure of Nitish Katara from the wedding celebrations
 of PW-11 Shivani Gaur. 984. There is no dispute that Shivani Gaur's wedding was fixed
 for the 16th February, 2002 at the Diamond Palace, Banquet
 Hall, Kavi Nagar, Industrial Area. 985. The bride Shivani Gaur reached the venue at about 9 p.m. 986. Bharat Diwakar was staying with the deceased Nitish Katara
 in his Chelmsford residence in Delhi. On 15 th February,
 2002, Bharat and Nitish had attended the ladies sangeet in
 which Bharti had also participated. 987. On the 16th of February 2002 Bharat Diwakar (PW-25) and
 Nitish Katara left the Katara residence for the wedding
 between 9:30 p.m. to 10: 00 p.m. They reached the venue at
 around 10:15 p.m. The photographs Ex.PW6/2 as well as
 video cassettes Ex.PW 42/1 bear testimony of the fact that
 the "baraat" (bridegroom party) had not arrived at the venue
 by that time. The deceased and Bharat Diwakar did meet the
 bride and also got themselves photographed with Bharti and
 her. The bridegroom does not feature in this picture. 988. So far as Nitish Katara's presence at the wedding is
 concerned, the testimony of Bharat Diwakar (PW-25) as well
 as their friend Gaurav Gupta (PW 26) in Vikas Yadav's trial
 is material. Bharat Diwakar and Nitish Katara reached the
 Diamond Banquet Hall at about 10.15 p.m. in a hired car.
 After wishing the couple, PW-25 has testified that Nitish
 Katara, Gaurav Gupta and he left for the adjoining garden
 where the food arrangement had been made. While they
 were eating dinner at around 11-11.15 p.m., one young male
 came to them and enquired as to which of them was Nitish
 Katara. Nitish identified himself to that person at which they
 moved away from them and were talking. Bharat Diwakar
 and Gaurav Gupta continued with their meal. Thereafter,
 Bharat Diwakar (PW-25) did not meet either Nitish or that
 person and he did not know where they went. 989. A strenuous effort was made before the trial courts and also
 before us on behalf of the appellants to create a doubt with
 regard to the time at which the deceased was last seen at the
 wedding venue. As noticed above, it is in the testimony of
 Bharat Diwakar that the deceased was called away when he
 was eating dinner with his friends. PW-26 Gaurav Gupta is
 confused about the time at which he reached the Banquet
 Hall. It is noteworthy that PW-26 Gaurav Gupta had
 travelled down from Faizabad the very same evening and
 was actually dropped at the venue by another friend PW-20
 Yashoman Tomar. There is, therefore, reasonable possibility
 of the witness being disoriented about the actual time when
 he reached the wedding. However, this witness is also
 categorical that only Bharat, Nitish and he had gone for
 dinner together and there was no one else with them. 990. It is necessary to also examine the testimony of Shivani
 Gaur, Bharti Yadav and Bhawna Yadav on this aspect. PW-
 11 Shivani Gaur states that at her wedding she took her meal
 at 12.30 or 1 a.m. and at that time she saw Nitish Katara on
 one side but did not see him take his meal. 991. Given her testimony, the court has put a specific question to
 PW-11 Shivani Gaur to tell as to which of her friends left the
 wedding venue at what time. She answered that she would
 not know because they came to the stage, got photographs
 clicked, ate food and went away. She also testified that since Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 554 it was very crowded she did not know who came and went
 away when. All that this witness could say was that Swati,
 Puja, Priti and Vipin and Amit were her friends who left last
 at about 12.30 a.m.when she was going for dinner. PW-11
 makes a specific statement that all her other friends left
 before 12.30a.m. She also explained that she was able to
 state that these were the last people who left because, at that
 time, the crowd was not much and they actually came to her
 and said good bye. PW-11 is also categorical that at the time
 of the satpati ceremony which lasted from 1:30 a.m. to 4:30
 a.m., only her close friends Bharti Yadav, her sister Bhawna
 and one Lata were present. She further stated that she had
 lastly seen Nitish Katara at around 1:30 a.m. when after
 taking her meal, she was going for the saptbadi. 992. The learned trial judge has held that PW-11 Shivani Gaur
 has made a tutored and false statement that she saw Nitish
 Katara at about 12:30/01:00 a.m and again at 01:30 a.m. The
 trial judge has held that the witness has so testified only to
 assist the defence in challenging the testimony of PW-33
 Ajay Katara that he had seen Nitish Katara in the company
 of all the appellants at Hapur Chungi around 00:20 hrs or
 00:30 hrs. The learned trial judge has completely
 disbelieved the testimony of this witness. 993. The testimony of PW-11 with regard to the timings at the
 wedding is incredulous and impossible to say the least. In Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 555 her photographs (Exh PW6/1-4, Shivani Gaur, a bride, is not
 wearing a watch. The assessment of her testimony by the
 learned trial court judge is correct and cannot be faulted. 994. We have noted PW-38 Bharti's statement that she was
 merely friendly with Nitish. It is also in her testimony that
 on 16th February, 2002, she had sat with PW-11 Shivani
 Gaur throughout the marriage. She has also testified that she
 remained at the wedding till the ‗vidai ceremony‟ whereas
 others left after wishing the couple. PW-38 has also stated
 that her mother; brother Vikas ; cousin Vishal and sister
 Bhawna had also attended the wedding. Amongst her
 friends, Nitish Katara, Gaurav Gupta, Bharat Diwakar, Lata
 and Vipin also attended the wedding. 995. So far as the departure of Nitish Katara from the wedding
 venue is concerned, Bharti was unable to recollect the exact
 time when her friends including Nitish had left the venue.
 She stated that it was late and only a few guests were left and
 the phera ceremony were about to take place. 996. The evidence on record manifests the pressure to which
 Bharti Yadav was subjected to toe the defence line.
 Immediately after the wedding, she was physically spirited
 away from her residence in Ghaziabad and sent to Faridabad
 on the 17th of February 2002 itself. This stands established Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 556 from call records of the cell phone no.9810038469 which
 she was using. 997. Nitin Katara has placed on record e-mails which he says that
 he received from Bharti Yadav wherein she clearly stated
 that she could not even disclose her whereabouts and was
 writing furtively. These mails till 24th February, 2002 reflect
 the deep anguish and pain the witness was undergoing as
 well as her ignorance of the plight of Nitish Katara,
 admittedly a close friend, if not more, at what she also
 believed and at the hands of her brothers. She beseeched
 Nitin Katara on the cell and e-mails to trace Nitish at the
 earliest and expresses hope to see both of them shortly.
 What is shocking is that this young, educated, articulate
 adult was kept in the dark about recovery of Nitish's dead
 body even till 24th February, 2002. 998. Matters don't end here and towards the end of
 September/October 2002, Bharti Yadav is sent away to U.K.
 ostensibly to pursue an academic course but, as the trial
 court record reflects, it was really a blatant attempt to
 prevent her appearance in court as a witness. 999. PW-38 Bharti Yadav appeared in the witness box on 29 th
 November, 2006. The witness was represented by counsel
 during her testimony. As she was completely resiling from
 her previous statement, the learned Special Public Prosecutor Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 557 for the State was permited to cross-examine her. On the 29th
 of November, 2006 while under cross-examination by the
 Special Public Prosecutor, the witness sought an
 adjournment on the ground that she was unwell prior to the
 lunch recess. 1000. Bharti Yadav's testimony reflects that she has done her
 utmost to resist the pressures. But then Vikas Yadav is her
 brother and Vishal Yadav, a first cousin. So in the previous
 part of her testimony, she only attempts to distance herself
 from Nitish. Finding herself unable to support the false
 defence case, she utilizes the shield of ill health to get an
 adjournment on the 29th of November 2006. On the next day
 she is still not able to make a positive assertion of any false
 fact relating to Nitish Katara in her cross examinations by
 the Special Public Prosecutor or by the Senior Counsel for
 Vikas Yadav or ld. counsel for Vishal Yadav. Clearly
 realizing the reluctance of this witness, the defence then
 adopted an ingenious method of bringing the false statement
 into the evidence. Recourse was taken to putting the false
 assertaion of fact, as a suggestion to the witness. Bharti
 Yadav appears to have finally succumbed to the pressures at
 the final stage when she conceded to the suggestion by Shri
 S.K. Sharma, Ld. counsel for Vishal Yadav to the effect that
 she had dinner with her friends including Nitish Katara
 around 1:00 am. Unfortunately for the prosecution, while Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 558 putting the suggestion, learned counsel for Vishal Yadav had
 completely overlooked Shivani Gaur's categorical statement
 that Nitish did not eat dinner with them. 1001. The appellants also overlooked the fact that Nitish had come
 to the wedding with Bharat Diwakar. Shivani Gaur, Bharti
 and Bhawna Yadav make no reference to Bharat Diwakar's
 presence at 1:30 am. His own evidence is to the contrary. 1002. Bharti's evidence that she ate dinner with Nitish Katara is
 also contrary to the unchallenged evidence of PW 25 Bharat
 Diwakar and PW 26 Gaurav Gupta who stated that the three
 of them were together at dinner and do not mention that
 Bharti presence at that time them. 1003. We may also note that while recording the testimony of PW- 42 Bhawna Yadav, the video cassette, Ex.PW42/1 of the
 marriage ceremony of Shivani Gaur was played in court on
 the 9th of March 2007. The trial court has observed that in
 the video cassette, Bharti is not with the bridal couple when
 it was proceeding towards the dining table. PW 42 Bhawna
 also admitted that Bharti was not at the dining table with the
 couple and the other people. The court observed that the
 complete table had been filmed and that PW 42 Bhawna also
 was not eating when the bridal couple was taking dinner.
 Bharti featured in the video with the bridal couple only at the
 ‗Vedi' for the phera ceremony rendering her testimony about Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 559 eating dinner with Nitish at 1:30 am undubitably false. The
 learned trial judge has therefore, correctly held on this aspect
 that the testimony of PW-38 Bharti on this aspect also does
 not inspire any confidence. 1004. Interestingly during her testimony PW-38 Bharti does not
 categorically deny that Vishal Yadav had sought out Nitish
 Katara when he was with his other friends and taken him out
 of the marriage hall but merely stated that she had no
 knowledge. So was the answer to other similar questions
 with regard to Nitish having been taken by the appellants in
 a Tata Safari vehicle. She also nowhere stated that the
 appellants had not come to the venue in the Tata Safari
 vehicle. 1005. Even more important is the fact that if this testimony was
 true, PW-38 Bharti Yadav would have been anxious to enter
 the witness box as such testimony would have facilitated the
 defence of her brothers and prevented the long incarceration
 for her brother and her first cousin. This fact by itself goes a
 long way to support the findings of the trial judge that the
 witness has been produced after wait of over three and half
 years only when the defence was confident that she could be
 influenced by her family to make a testimony which
 facilitated her brothers' defence. 1006. This discussion would be incomplete without referring to the
 evidence of PW-42 Bhawna Yadav on the duration of Nitish
 Katara's presence at the wedding. It is important to note that
 in PW-42's examination-in-chief on 9th March, 2007, the
 witness is categorical that Bharti and she were throughout
 together in the marriage function at the Diamond Palace. In
 answer to a specific question as to whether Bharti parted
 company from her at any time during the marriage function,
 Bharti Yadav had stated that she could not say ‗if she went
 aside' for a minute or so during the marriage function. This
 statement is contradictory to the statement of PW 11 Shivani
 Gaur as well as PW-38 Bharti. 1007. Bhawna Yadav sought deferremnt of her evidence on 9th
 March, 2007. She resumed on 28th March, 2007. In her cross
 examination on 28th March, 2007 PW 42 Bhawna Yadav
 voluntered that on that date she had dinner about 01:00 a.m
 and Nitish Katara was with ‗us' but he did not have dinner
 with ‗us'. She admitted the suggestions that in the video she
 had been shown at one time at the dining table with Shivani
 Gaur but was not eating food at that time. 1008. The reason for the deferment by Bhawna Yadav is obvious. She had not stated what she was supposed to so as to assist
 her brothers. On the next date Bhawna Yadav, a sister of
 Vikas Yadav, introduced a Mercedes into the case in which
 the two brothers left the wedding venue. Interestingly she Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 561 says while Vikas was driving it, Vishal sat on the rear seat
 which is strange as the passenger seat was vacant! It was
 thus a desperate attempt by the appellants at the last stages of
 Bhawna's cross-examination to establish that Nitish Katara
 was at the wedding long after Vikas and Vishal Yadav left
 the venue in a Mercedes. 1009. The photographs Ex.PW6/1, PW6/2 and PW6/3 as well as
 the wedding cassette show that neither PW 11 Shivani Gaur
 nor PW 38 Bharti are wearing a watch. These witnesses
 would have no manner of knowing the time of the departure
 of any person. It is in any case unbelievable and completely
 unnatural that either a bride, or her accompanying best
 friend, would be keeping tabs on the arrival or departure of
 guests. 1010. These witnesses had no recollection of important events and
 essential circumstances in their daily lives. PW-11, Shivani
 had a selective amnesia. She could not recollect significant
 details while giving her testimony in Vishal and Vikas's
 trial. The information about which the witness stated that she
 cannot remember is information which any person would
 normally be expected to remember. Yet despite passage of
 four years, when she cross-examined on 13th September,
 2006, she had total recollection of date, time and length of
 period of Vikas and Vishal Yadav's visit to her wedding and
 time she claims to have seen Nitish Katara. Bhawna Yadav could not remember as to who accompanied
 her to Mumbai in the extraordinary day trip to celebrate a
 birthday - not an everyday trip. She does not recollect even
 the occupation or phone number of her husband or the
 landline of her house. Bharti's evidence is also replete with what she could not
 recollect, including ordinary details of her residential
 landline numbers and places where the photographs on
 record were taken. 1011. In the judgment dated 28th May, 2008, the learned Trial
 Judge has noted that Bhawna Yadav was not cited as a
 witness and was examined only to prove call records of cell
 phone no.9810038469 and that the accused persons took
 complete benefit of her appearance as a prosecution witness,
 introducing new things in her cross-examination. (ii) Documentary evidence regarding location of Nitsh Katara
 at around 1/1:30 a.m. (Electronic call records of Nitish
 Katara‟s cell phone No. 9811283641 (Exh PW21/1)
1012. The oral evidence given by Shivani Gaur, Bhawna Yadav
 and Bharti on the aspect of presence of Nitish Katara at the
 wedding venue at 01:00 a.m. or thereabouts is contrary to the
 unchallenged evidence of Bharat Diwakar and Gaurav
 Gupta. 1013. This oral testimony of Shivani Gaur, Bharti Yadav and
 Bhawna Yadav is falsified by documentary evidence on
 record which we now propose to examine. 1014. Bharat Diwakar has explained to the court that Nitish's
 friends had noticed at about 12.15 p.m. that Nitish had not
 rejoined them. The witness had also stated that when Nitish
 did not return till 12.45 a.m., he and Gaurav Gupta had
 unsuccessfully searching for Nitish. He could not be found
 at the wedding venue. They tried calling Nitish on his
 cellphone but could not make contact. However, Gaurav
 Gupta succeeded in establishing contact with Nitish on his
 cellphone at about 1 a.m.

1015. The above oral testiomy of witnesses requires to be
 examined in the context of the documentary evidence led by
 the prosecution. That Nitish Katara was in possession of his
 cell phone is undisputed. The location of Nitish Katara's cell
 phone is concerned is established from his electronic call
 record proved by the testimony of PW-21 Deepak Gupta. As
 per Exh.PW-21/1, from 10:00 pm on 16th February, 2002 till
 the last registered call on his phone, the following calls were
 received by or made from Nitish Katara cell phone as well as
 the tower location serving it :- 1017. It stands established that the Diamond Palace Banquet Hall
 was in Kavi Nagar which was served by the cell tower ID
 11581 (Exh.PW-21/1) also located in Kavi Nagar. 1018. Except the first call from Yashoman Tomar's phone which
 shows that Nitish Katara was at or around Kavi Nagar,
 Ghaziabad, all the other phone calls were received when he
 was at or around Raj Nagar in Ghaziabad. 1019. At around 1 a.m., an incoming call was received by Nitish
 Katara's cell phone at location ID 12253 which corresponds
 to Raj Nagar, Ghaziabad. This proves that Nitish Katara was
 not at the wedding venue at 1 a.m. when this call on his cell
 phone was received by him. 1020. The evidence of PW 25 Bharat Diwakar and PW 26 Gaurav
 Gupta coupled with the documentary evidence of electronic Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 566 records proved by PW-21 (Exh.PW-21/1) establishes that
 after midnight Nitish was not at the Diamond Palace
 Banquet Hall. 1021. In his examination-in-chief Bharat Diwakar stated that
 around 12:45 am, after Gaurav Gupta and he finished eating,
 they both tried calling Nitish on his cell phone but could not
 get through to him. He thereafter started inquiring in the
 Diamond Palace Banquet Hall as to whether the person
 wearing a red kurta had been seen by anybody when he was
 told that he was talking with a person named Vishal. It is
 evident from the above that Bharat Diwakar had learnt at the
 wedding itself about the name of the person who had taken
 Nitish as being Vishal. The court questioned Bharat
 Diwakar as to who had told him the name of the person with
 whom Nitish had left the wedding as Vishal. In response
 Bharat Diwakar stated that he could not recollect the name of
 the person who told him so. Bharat Diwakar confirmed that
 he had made inquiries from all those persons who were
 standing on the gate if they had seen any person in a red
 kurta leaving. At that time he was told that the name of the
 person with whom Nitish had gone was Vishal. 1022. When Bharti Yadav appeared as PW-38 in her brother's trial
 and was questioned about Vishal Yadav approaching Bharat
 Diwakar, Gaurav Gupta and Nitish Katara at the marriage
 function and taking Nitish Katara out of the marriage hall, Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 567 Bharti Yadav did not deny this fact categorically but only
 claimed that she had no knowledge. Bharat Diwakar (PW- 25) has stated that Nitish Katara was called away from their
 company at 11/11.15 p.m. So far as the timing, the time at
 which Nitish Katara left the Banquet Hall or evidence about
 his being outside the wedding venue is concerned, we shall
 discuss it hereafter. (iii) Presence of the deceased as well as appellants at the
 wedding at the same time

1023. Let us examine the evidence on the aspect of the presence of
 the accused persons at the wedding. So far as the presence
 of Vikas and Vishal Yadav at the wedding is concerned, the
 bride Shivani Gaur (PW-11). stated that Vikas and Vishal
 came around 11/11.15 p.m. and after greeting the couple
 they went away without taking a meal. Shivani Gaur has
 also stated that the accused Vikas and Vishal Yadav had told
 her husband that they had to go to a polling booth and could
 not stay long for which reason they did not eat their meal. 1024. There is no dispute that Nitish Katara was also present at the
 wedding at that time. 1025. The photographs Ex.PW6/2 (featuring Shivani Gaur with
 Bharat Diwakar, Nitish Katara and Bharti); Exh.PW6/3 as
 well as Exh.PW6/4 (featuring the bridal couple with Vishal
 Yadav in a (black jacket) and Vikas Yadav (in a white shirt) Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 568 have also been proved on record establish the presence of the
 deceased and the accused person respectively at the
 wedding. 1026. Mr. Kapoor has referred to the statement of PW-7 Shivani
 Gaur whose wedding was attended by Vishal and Vikas
 Yadav as well as the deceased Nitish Katara on the night
 intervening 16/17th February, 2002. He submits that the
 witness, who was the bride on that day, stated that she had
 seen Nitish Katara around 1/1.30 a.m. while leaving for the
 phera ceremony and therefore the prosecution case that
 Nitish was abducted by the three appellants must fail. 1027. Before proceeding any further, the question which begs an
 answer is whether it was possible to see the main entrance of
 the Banquet Hall premises from the dias which was located
 insde the hall? To answer this question it is essential to
 visualize the position at the Diamond Palace Banquet Hall. 1028. It is in the evidence of PW-14 Sandeep Goyal, owner of the
 Banquet Hall that the banquet hall has one office block and
 one shed. There are three gates of 13 feet width. The main
 entrance is in the direction of the north east of the plot. It is
 in the testimony of PW-42 Bhawna Yadav that the venue
 was enclosed with the boundary walls of the height of 8 feet
 or more with grill fixed thereon. Inside the banquet hall there Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 569 was open space and then the banquet hall. To access the
 banquet hall, a few steps had to be climbed. 1029. In his cross-examination, Gaurav Gupta further stated that
 the main gate of the venue was on the main road; then on
 both sides there were ‗kanats' (marquees) followed by four
 or six stairs for entering the marriage hall. The garden where
 dinner was laid was on the right side and that more than 500
 to 600 people who were moving around were taking their
 meals. 1030. The sitting arrangement for the bride and groom was made at
 the centre of the hall which had a wall in the centre. PW-14
 Sandeep Goyal has stated that the dinner arrangement on 16 th
 February, 2002 was made in the lawn which, if facing the
 banquet hall, fell on to right side of the banquet hall. 1031. The main gate was around 35 to 40 feet from the main road. The venue had to be accessed by the ramp of 35 feet from
 the main road to the gate of the plot. 1032. So far as the venue is concerned, it has emerged in the
 testimony of Bhawna Yadav that the boundary wall of the
 premises was of the height of about 8 feet or more with grills
 fixed thereon. Inside the boundary wall there was open
 space and then the Banquet Hall which could be accessed by
 a few steps. 1033. It is noteworthy that Shri Sandeep Goel, owner of the
 Diamond Palace Banquet Hall (PW-2 in Sukhdev
 Pehalwan's case). He confirmed that the entire main gate is
 not visible from the dais where the bride and the bridegroom
 are seated and only the upper portion of the main gate is
 visible therefrom. Therefore it was not possible to see from
 the dias as to who was leaving the wedding venue. 1034. Shivani Gaur (PW-11) stated that the wedding on 16th
 February, 2002 was preceded by a sangeet on 15 th February,
 2002 which was attended by her friends Bharti Yadav, Nitish
 Katara and Bharat Diwakar. It is in the testimony of this
 witness that she and her husband were sitting on the dias in
 the Banquet Hall on 16th February, 2002 from 10.20 p.m. till
 12.30 a.m. on 17th February, 2002 and that the meal for the
 baraat started at 10.00 or 10.30 p.m. at a place different
 from the hall. 1035. Shivani Gaur testifying as PW-7 in Sukhdev Pehalwan's
 trial, again in her cross-examination stated that Vikas and
 Vishal Yadav had come to meet her on the dais on the
 wedding site at 10.30 pm and left immediately thereafter. A
 clarification was sought from the witness by the court as to
 what she meant from leaving immediately. The witness
 explained that they left the dais where she was sitting with
 the bridegroom after getting their photographs clicked in a
 hurry. When further querried, the witnesses pleaded Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 571 ignorance about when they left the venue hall as she was
 seated on the dais. It is evident therefrom that the witness
 certainly did not know when Vikas and Vishal Yadav
 actually left the wedding venue as she was on the dais till
 after 12.30 on that night. 1036. PW-38 Bharti Singh corroborates PW-11 in her statement
 that Vikas and Vishal had come together to the marriage
 venue and did not eat dinner. So far as Vikas and Vishal
 Yadav's departure is concerned, Bharti has stated that she
 saw them leaving the place (dias) where the couple was
 sitting between 10.30 p.m. and 11 p.m. She accepts the
 suggestion that she could not state as to what time they left
 the Diamond Palace Banquet Hall after leaving the hall and
 with whom. 1037. Let us examine what the third witness who has attempted to
 assist the defence has to say. PW-42 Bhawna Yadav is also
 a daughter of Shri D.P. Yadav and sister of Vikas and Bharti
 Yadav. It is interesting that at the initial stages of her cross-
 examination, on the 9th of March 2007, Bhawna Yadav
 accepted the suggestion that Vikas Yadav and Vishal Yadav
 were not appearing in any frame of the wedding cassette
 Exh.PW-42/1. She also accepted the suggestion that they
 had attended the marriage for only 10 minutes and had left. 1038. Bhawna Yadav was examined as the second last witness on
 by the prosecution. By this time the accused persons were
 aware of the entire case of the prosecution. Amongst other
 proven facts, the prosecution had proved the disclosure
 statements and recoveries of the Tata Safari which the
 accused had to demolish. There was also evidence of the
 deceased being seen in the company of the appellants which
 had to be displaced. Bhawna Yadav has also stated that she
 was near the stage when the accused had come to the bridal
 couple to wish them. In cross-examination of Bhawna
 Yadav on the 9th of March 2007, the defence tried to
 establish that she was present at the gate of the Banquet Hall
 when the accused persons were leaving alone. Bhawna was
 closely related to Vikas and Vishal Yadav. If her testimony
 to this effect was true, why did she not tell these facts to the
 investigating agency when they were frantically searching
 for her brothers in February, 2002 till she was being cross-
 examined as a witness in 2007? Why did she not come
 forward about the mercedes vehicle for five years? 1039. Unmindful of the excuse attributed by PW-11 Shivani Gaur
 to Vikas Yadav for their early departure from the wedding
 that he had to go for some election work, Bhawna Yadav
 introduced the early exit of Vikas Yadav to the ground that
 he had to reach Karnal to attend some function manifesting
 that by 2007 when prosecution evidence was almost over, Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 573 some shades of the defence case were taking shape. Of
 course the defence blundered even here. It is not the case of
 Vikas and Vishal Yadav that they went to Karnal from the
 wedding. They have put up a case that they had gone to
 attend a function in Ghaziabad itself after attending
 Shivani's wedding. 1040. Despite stating that she never went out of the hall and stayed
 with the bride after her brothers had left the same, Bharti
 wrongly suggests that she saw her brothers leaving the
 marriage venue. 1041. The testimony of Shivani Gaur is also completely contrary to
 any normal conduct, especially given the admitted position
 that there were hundreds of guests (600 - 700) at the
 wedding who were moving around. There would have been
 lot of hustle bustle involving the guests trying to meet the
 bridal couple. It is therefore obvious that neither Shivani
 Gaur nor any other person including Bharti Yadav and
 Bhawna Yadav could have seen from the dias inside the
 Diamond Banquet Hall as to what was transpiring at place
 where the dinner was laid or at the venue gate. 1042. The prosecution had been able to completely demolish the
 defence suggestion that the accused persons were seen
 leaving the marriage venue at 11:00/11:30 pm on 16 th
 February, 2002 unaccompanied by Nitish Katara as it was Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 574 not possible to visualize the main gate of the banquet hall
 from the dias where the witnesses Shivani Gaur and Bharti
 were placed. It is also not possible to accept Bhawna
 Yadav's testimony on this point. Therefore the testimony of
 these three witnesses about the time of departure of Vikas
 and Vishal Yadav has to be rejected. (iv) Outside the wedding venue - evidence of last seen

1043. We may now examine whether the prosecution could
 establish that accused and the deceased were seen together
 outside the wedding venue. Four witnesses were examined in
 support of this submission. Jai Prakash Pandey and Umesh Sharma were examined as
 PW-19 and PW-31 respectively in Vikas Yadav's trial. They
 were posted as security guards at the Diamond Palace
 Banquet hall on 16th February, 2002. 1044. The statement of Jai Prakash Pandey under section 161 of
 the Cr.P.C. was recorded on 17th Feburary 2002 (Ex PW
 19/A) and the statement of Umesh Sharma was recorded on
 17th March 2002 (Ex PW 31/1). In the statements under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C., they had stated that they saw one
 boy wearing a red colour kurta, churidar pajama and white
 colour shawl shaking hands with some boys standing outside
 Diamond Palace and thereafter sitting in a long car/Tata
 Safari which vehicle went towards the west side at a fast Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 575 speed. While Jai Prakash Pandey (Ex.PW19/1) learnt the
 next day that one boy namely, Nitish Katara, whom he did
 not know, was missing from the marriage function, Umesh
 Sharma stated that he learnt the same after 2 - 3 days from
 the newspaper and TV. In his statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C., these witnesses had confirmed that the victim was
 the same boy who was wearing the red kurta and churidar
 pajama who had gone in the Tata Safari vehicle. 1045. The learned Trial Court has recorded observations on the
 conduct of this witness, Jai Prakash Pandey noting that in his
 cross-examination by the Special Public Prosecutor for the
 State, the witness stated that he knew that in this case, the
 accused Vikas Yadav is a son of Shri D.P. Yadav while
 Vishal Yadav is his cousin brother. As against this statement
 during investigation, during his cross-examination by the
 defence counsel in court, the witness stated that he had
 neither seen the accused persons nor did he know them. The
 learned Trial Judge has found the conduct of Umesh Sharma
 (PW-31) also unnatural, suspicious and unbelievable as he
 testified that he was not aware of the present case. Both
 these witnesses resiled from their previous statements, were
 declared hostile and their testimonies have been completely
 rejected by the learned trial judge. Their statements have
 been brought to our attention. We see no reason to disagree
 with the view taken by the learned trial judge. 1046. The learned Trial Judge has also found conduct of Umesh
 Sharma, (PW-31 in Vikas Yadav's trial), who did not
 support the prosecution case, unbelievable. The learned
 Trial Judge has held that the his conduct of this witness
 shows that he had met somebody who had informed him of
 the manner in which he should give his testimony and
 therefore, he did not support the prosecution case. The court
 has also noted on the statement of the witness that he had
 come to the court earlier on summons but was told by some
 advocate that he was late and therefore he had gone back and
 not entered the court room. The trial court has correctly
 rejected the testimony of PW-19, Jai Prakash Pandey and
 PW-31, Umesh Sharma. 1047. On the aspect of proving the presence of Vikas, Vishal
 Yadav, as well as Sukhdev Pehalwan outside the venue, the
 prosecution examined as a witnesses Ct. Inderjeet Singh and
 Ct. Satender Pal Singh in both trials. In Vikas and Vishal
 Yadav's trial, they were examined as PW-28 and PW-32
 respectively, while in Sukhdev Yadav's trial, they were
 examined as PW-12 and PW-10 respectively. 1048. It is in evidence that on the night of the 16th - 17th February,
 2002, a police patrolling car bearing Chetak 13 was
 patrolling in the area covering the area of Chiranjiv, Kavi
 Nagar, Vivekanand Nagar and Shastri Nagar which includes
 the area in which Diamond Palace Banquet Hall is situated. This patrol car was being driven by driver Ct. Satender Pal
 Singh. It was manned by Ct. Inderjeet Singh with two home
 guards. Both these constables have testified that at about
 11:15 p.m. and 11:30 p.m., their patrol car was positioned
 near the Diamond Banquet Hall. Chetak 13 was on the road
 coming from Diamond Palace Banquet Hall and facing it.
 Ct. Satendra Pal Singh testified that the Chetak 13 was
 parked at a distance of 10/15 steps from the Banquet Hall at
 a turning. He testified that at about 12:15/12:30 while
 checking vehicles on the night of 16th February, 2002, they
 stopped a Tata Safari which was being driven by Vikas
 Yadav and there were two - three persons more sitting in the
 vehicle. Though he would not identify the deceased Nitish
 Katara in court when shown the picture, however he
 categorically stated that Vishal Yadav was seated in the rear
 portion of the Tata Safari. 1049. Despite extensive cross-examination on behalf of Vikas and
 Vishal Yadav, Ct. Satender Pal Singh (as PW-32) remained
 steadfast that the police vehicle remained at the location
 from 11.30 pm to about 12.45 am and that they had stopped
 the Tata Safari in which Vikas and Vishal Yadav were
 travelling at around 12:15/12:45 am. with two other persons. 1050. In his evidence, PW-28 Ct. Inderjeet Singh has admitted that
 while performing the patrolling duty he had seen Vikas
 Yadav and Vishal Yadav present in the court, sitting in a Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 578 long car. He also admits that their car was checked between
 12:00 mid night to 12:15 a.m. for arms, ammunition or
 anything objectionable. In answer to the court question PW-
 28 also admitted that he had seen ―Nitish Katara in a Tata
 Safari vehicle when he was on duty on that road‖. The
 witness stated that when this Tata Safari was checked,
 "there were 2 - 3 persons in that Tata Safari - two in the
 front and one in the back and the person whose photograph
 was shown was in the front‖. 1051. The witness was shown photographs of Nitish Katara whom
 he identified as the person on the front in the Tata Safari
 Vehicle 12.30 a.m. in the night of 16/17th February, 2002. At this stage, the prosecutor pointed out that the witness was
 resiling from the statement made by him under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. and he was permitted to cross-examine the
 witness. 1052. It is necessary to notice the obstruction by the defence
 counsel at this stage. The prosecutor asked the witness PW
 28 Ct. Inderjeet Singh if he had told anyone that he had seen
 the accused persons present in court as well as Nitish Katara
 in the same car coming from the Diamond Palace. This
 question was objected to by the defence, and this objection
 was overruled by the court. The observations of the court in
 the proceedings recorded on 25th April, 2003 with regard to Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 579 what transpired in the trial are material and deserve to be
 extracted. The same reads as follows:- 1057. PW 32 Ct. Satender Pal Singh was even able to recollect the
 clothes worn by the accused on that night. He stated that one
 of the accused was in a black jacket and the other one in a
 white shirt. He was shown the wedding photograph
 Ex.PW6/4 and in that photograph Vishal Yadav is wearing a
 black jacket while Vikas Yadav was wearing light colour
 shirt. The witness stated that the accused Vikas Yadav and Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 581 Vishal Yadav were wearing the same clothes in the
 photographs as they were wearing when he saw them on the
 night intervening 16th / 17th February, 2002 in the Tata
 Safari. 1058. The photograph Exh PW6/3 is contextual and corroborates
 the oral testimony of Ct Satender Pal Singh who identifies
 the accused persons by these clothes when he spotted them
 after they left the Diamond Palace Banquet Hall that night. 1059. The witness also testified that the Tata Safari had a Punjab
 registration number. The recovered vehicle bore a Punjab
 registration number. 1060. Even though Ct. Satender Pal Singh had to be declared
 hostile, however, he unequivocally confirms the presence of
 the three appellants as well as a fourth person in a red kurta
 in the Tata Safari vehicle coming from the Diamond Palace
 Banquet Hall on the fateful night. No doubt could be created
 on this part of the testimony in the cross-examination. 1061. The witness tried to create confusion about telling the
 Investigating Officer that one boy wearing red colour kurta
 who was sitting in the passenger seat next to Vikas Yadav in
 the front seat of the Tata Safari vehicle had a round face. He
 had also stated that later on it was learnt by him that the boy
 in the red kurta, who was seen by him in the vehicle of Vikas
 Yadav, had been kidnapped and murdered by them. In cross- examination by the prosecutor, the witness stated that he had
 also not told the Investigating Officer that the windows of
 the vehicle, which was being driven by Vikas Yadav, were
 rolled down and that apart from Vikas Yadav there were
 three more persons in the car. 1062. It is important to note that the witness was confronted with
 the photograph of Nitish Katara Exh.PW11/5. The witness
 stated that he could not say whether the person in the
 photograph was in the Tata Safari driven by the accused
 Vikas Yadav or not. The witness thus does not deny the
 presence of Nitish Katara in the Tata Safari vehicle. 1063. The demeanour of the witness was also observed and noted
 by the court while recording his statement. The learned trial
 judge has noted on 29th of May, 2003 that ―during his
 testimony in between the witness has expressed his desire to
 discontinue as he was getting hopeless‖. The court gave him
 water and gave him assurance so that the witness continued
 thereafter. The sense of hopelessness expressed by the
 witness bears testimony to the pressure upon him with regard
 to his testimony. As his subsequent testimony reflects, even
 the trial court was unable to instill confidence or security in
 the witness to frankly and freely give an open account of
 what he had witnessed that fateful night. Interestingly, his cross-examination was thereafter got
 deferred at the instance of the counsel for the accused
 persons. The witness was then subjected to extensive cross-
 examination with regard to his very presence at the spot; his
 assignments and duties. 1064. We may also consider the evidence of these witnesses in the
 trial of Sukhdev @ Pehalwan (the appellant in the Criminal
 Appeal No.145/2012). 1065. Ct. Satender Pal Singh was examined as PW-10A in
 Sukhdev @ Pehalwan 's trial (who had been examined on
 29th May, 2003 in the first trial) on the 1st December, 2006.
 By and large, he reitereated his earlier testimony. Ct.
 Satender also categorically identified the appellant Sukhdev
 @ Pehalwan present in court as the person also sitting in the
 rear seat of the Tata Safari. 1066. As the witness was resiling from his earlier statement under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. again on the identity of the
 deceased being the person sitting in the front passenger seat,
 Ct. Satender Pal Singh was permitted to be cross-examined
 by the Special Public Prosecutor in Sukhdev's trial as well.
 In this cross-examination, the witness stated that he had
 learnt that Nitish Katara had been kidnapped and murdered
 and taken away by Vikas and Vishal Yadav in the Tata Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 584 Safari along with the accused (Sukhdev Pehalwan) present in
 court. 1067. In Sukhdev's trial also Ct. Inderjeet Singh (who was with Ct. Satender Pal Singh in the police patrol gypsy Chetak 13 in
 the night of 16th / 17th February, 2002) completely resiled
 from his statement recorded under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C.
 Just as in the first trial, he again attempted to create a
 dichotomy and introduced a story of two vehicles, one in
 which the appellants Vikas Yadav and Vishal Yadav were
 travelling and the other in which the deceased Nitish Katara
 was travelling. Ct. Inderjeet Singh was again permitted to be
 cross-examined by the Special Public Prosecutor. 1068. In his cross-examination by the Special Public Prosecutor,
 Ct. Inderjeet Singh stated that a person wearing a red kurta
 was sitting in the Tata Safari vehicle which was stopped by
 him in a patrol car at Chetak 13 in the night of 16 th / 17th
 February, 2002. The witness also admitted that there was
 sufficient light at the T-point where they were stopping the
 vehicles. 1069. The testimonies of (PW-32 and PW-10 respectively) Ct. Satender Pal Singh and (PW-28 and PW-12 respectively) Ct.
 Inderjeet Singh in the two trials is eloquent of the manner in
 which these two police constables have been either won over
 or sufficiently intimidated by the defence so as to resile from Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 585 their statements under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. to prevent
 the truth from coming out. 1070. We have noted the well settled principles applicable to
 witnesses who are declared hostile. The testimony of these
 witnesses has to be scrutinized on those principles. 1071. Despite these witnesses not stating the complete truth,
 certainly crucial facts noted above stand established even
 from such testimony and their cross-examination by the
 prosecutor. 1072. The learned Trial Judges have closely scrutinized the
 testimony of these witnesses and found them trustworthy on
 certain crucial facts. We have been taken through the
 testimonies and also find their evidence supporting the
 prosecution on some critical facts noted above. 1073. Ct. Inderjeet Singh has tried to create a doubt on the
 prosecution case that the accused and the deceased were in
 the same vehicle at around 12:30 a.m on the night
 intervening 16th/17th February, 2002. However, it is evident
 from his testimony that even this hostile witness admits that
 the accused persons and the deceased Nitish Katara had left
 Diamond Palace at the same time. The witness still
 establishes that Nitish Katara as well las one more person
 were in a Tata Safari. It is not even the defence case that
 Nitish Katara owned or had come to the wedding in a Tata Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 586 Safari vehicle that fateful night. On the contrary, it is Vikas
 Yadav father's company which owned the Tata Safari
 vehicle. It was subsequently recovered at the instance of the
 accused persons. Ct. Inderjeet Singh also establishes the fact
 that Nitish Katara was not at Shivani Gaur's wedding at
 1/1:30 a.m. of 17th February, 2002. He thus falsifies the
 testimony to this effect of Shivani Gaur (in both trials) as
 well as that Bharti and Bhawna Yadav (in Vikas and Vishal
 Yadav's trial). Most importantly, the witness established the
 fact that Vikas and Vishal Yadav as well as Nitish Katara
 and one more person were travelling on the same road in the
 same direction towards Hapur Chungi at the same time on
 the said night. It is obvious that the witness has not stated
 the truth in the witness box and has attempted to cloud the
 testimony of Ct. Satender Pal Singh. 1074. From the testimony of PW-32 Ct. Satender Pal Singh, it
 stands established that a Tata Safari being driven by Vikas
 Yadav with Vishal Yadav and two other passengers was
 stopped just outside the Diamond Palace Banquet Hall (10 to
 15 steps away) between 00:15 hours and 00.30 hours
 (referred to as 12.15 a.m. and 12.30 a.m. on the trial court
 record) on 17th February, 2002. Appearing as PW-10 in
 Sukhdev's trial as well, Ct. Satender Pal Singh categorically
 identified Sukhdev @ Pehalwan present in court as seated in
 the back seat of the Tata Safari. He also categorically Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 587 testified that the person who was sitting by the side of the
 driver was wearing a red kurta, though in his statement under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C., he had identified this fourth
 person as the deceased. 1075. The testimony of Ct. Satender Pal Singh as PW 10 in
 Sukhdev's trial which has been challenged by counsel for the
 appellant Sukhdev Yadav Pehalwan on the ground that the
 witness was unreliable and there was delay of two weeks in
 recording his statement during investigation as well as
 contradictions between his testimony qua the testimony of
 PW-12 Ct. Inderjeet Singh. . It is submitted that the
 4th
 statement of Ct. Satendra Pal Singh was recorded only on
 March, 2002 by the Investigating Officer. 1076. Mr.Ravinder Kapoor, counsel for Sukhdev vehemently
 contends that there are several discrepancies in the initial
 testimony of PW-10 Ct. Satender Pal Singh as against his
 testimony when cross-examined by the Special Public
 Prosecutor. 1077. We find that this objection was made in Vikas and Vishal
 Yadav's trial as well. The ld. judge noted that the police
 witness was appearing in the trial in December, 2006, more
 than 4 ½ years after the incident which took place in
 February, 2002. Reliance was placed on the pronouncement
 of the Supreme Court in ( 2000) 12 SCALE 742, Shankara Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 588 Naik v. State of Karnataka to the effect that discrepancies
 are bound to appear in the testimony of the witness whose
 evidence is recorded long after the incident. 1078. We have already dealt with the aspect of delay in recording
 the statement of witnesses under Section 161 of Cr.P.C. and
 considered the explanation for the delay tendered by the
 Investigating Officer. These witnesses were police
 personnel who were present near the Banquet Hall and
 testified about what they had observed during the
 performance of official duty. It is also noteworthy that Ct.
 Inderjeet Singh and Ct. Satender Pal Singh did not witness
 any crime. There was nothing alarming in the fact that a
 Tata Safari was stopped by the police in which four persons
 including the deceased were seated. In fact given the
 publicity attached to the case and the preoccupation of the
 investigating officer with efforts to trace out the appellants
 and the missing person, these two constables should have
 revealed the information about what they had seen. But they
 did not do so. The IO would have no information about the
 events of that night. In these circumstances, the delay in
 recording the statement of these witnesses by the
 investigating officer during investigation cannot impact the
 veracity of their testimony. 1079. It is settled law that evidence on an issue is to be read as a
 whole. The court is not required to conduct a minute Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 589 dissection of details in the evidence of each witness as is
 suggested on behalf of the appellants so as to discard the
 testimony of every witness. A holistic consideration of facts
 and circumstances established on record is to be effected by
 the trial judge bearing in mind human nature; its
 susceptibility to suggestions, influence, fear; oversight on
 account of passage of time between the occurrence and the
 date of testimony; relationship to and position of accused
 persons; normal tendencies of human beings to improvise
 and embellish; as well as the authority, influence,
 connections and outreach of the parties to the litigation
 which could impact the independence of the witnesses. 1080. The evidence of Shivani Gaur, Bharti Yadav and Bhawna
 Yadav that Vikas and Vishal left the wedding venue alone at
 11/11:30 pm, and that they saw Nitish Katara at the wedding
 venue around 1/1:30 am is clearly not worthy of any
 credence. This evidence has been rightly rejected by the
 learned trial judges. 1081. The conjoint reading of the evidence of Bharat Diwakar,
 Gaurav Gupta, Yashoman Tomar, Shivani Gaur, Ct.
 Inderjeet Singh and Ct. Satender Pal Singh establishes that
 the appellants as well as one person wearing a red kurta
 being Nitish Katara remained at the wedding venue at the
 same time and left it together in the Tata Safari vehicle
 bearing a Punjab registration number. The documentary Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 590 evidence of the call records establishes that after midnight,
 Nitish Katara was not at the Diamond Palace Banquet Hall.
 Ct. Inderjeet Singh resiled from his previous statement on
 the identification. However it is established that the Tata
 Safari was travelling towards Hapur Chungi where Ajay
 Kumar saw and identified its inmates. It stands proved
 beyond doubt as discussed in the next part that Ajay Katara
 was sitting in the passenger seat of the said Tata Safari
 vehicle driven by Vikas Yadav. 1082. The evidence of PW-28 Ct. Inderjeet Singh and PW-32 Ct. Satender Pal Singh establishes that the deceased Nitish
 Katara was seen in the company of the appellants in a Tata
 Safari vehicle bearing a Punjab registration number at a turn
 10 to 15 steps from the Diamond Palace Banquet Hall (near
 the Hapur Chungi) at about 12:15/12:30 am (00:00 hrs to
 00:15 hrs) on the night of 16th/17th February 2002. The
 vehicle was being driven by Vikas Yadav. Nitish Katara
 was seated besides him while Vishal Yadav and another
 person were in the rear seat. 1083. The facts proved as above have therefore to be considered
 and evaluated with the other evidence brought on record. VIII Last seen at the Hapur Chungi - evidence of Ajay Kumar
 Katara, a chance witness

1084. The prosecution has lastly placed reliance on the testimony
 of one Ajay Kumar (examined as PW-33 on 31st May, 2003
 in the trial of Vikas and Vishal Yadav and as PW-14 in
 Sukhdev's trial) as a chance witness who has given evidence
 of having last seen the deceased Nitish Katara alive in the
 company of the accused persons at the Hapur Chungi after
 midnight of the 16th of February 2002. In his testimony on
 31st May, 2003, this witness had stated that on 16th February,
 2002, he had gone to Ghaziabad to meet a friend called
 Subhash Chand, an employee of the U.P. Police, on his
 scooter. After meeting Subhash Chand, at about 12.10 am
 on the night intervening 16/17th February, 2012, he started
 from Ghaziabad to return to his residence at Delhi. While
 returning on the road at the Hapur Chungi crossing
 (‗chauraha‟) his scooter had gone out of order and stopped. 1085. Just at the place where his scooter had stopped, a Tata Safari
 vehicle being driven by Vikas Yadav had approached the
 spot from behind. The witness identified Vikas Yadav as
 present in court and stated that Vikas Yadav had told him to
 remove the scooter from the road in a very uncivilized
 manner. This altercation / exchange had taken place
 between 12 / 00.30 am in the night intervening 16th / 17th
 February, 2002. 1086. The witness further stated that he knew Vikas Yadav from
 before. As he had been spoken to rudely, the witness went
 to the Tata Safari vehicle. He knew three out of the four
 persons in the Tata Safari vehicle. The witness identified
 these three as Vikas Yadav S/o Shri D.P. Yadav; Vishal
 Yadav S/o Shri Kamal Nath Yadav (identified as present in
 court) and the third being a stout Pehalwan named Sukhdev.
 So far as the fourth person is concerned, the witness stated
 that he did not know him and that this fourth person was
 wearing a red kurta and a shawl. Ajay Kumar claimed that
 later when he saw his photograph on television, he realized
 that the fourth person in the Tata Safari vehicle was Nitish
 Katara whose identity he confirmed in court from the
 photograph Exh. PW-11/5. 1087. Ajay Kumar further stated that Nitish Katara was sitting in
 the front seat adjoining the driver seat; that Vishal Yadav
 was sitting behind the driver Vikas Yadav, while Sukhdev @
 Pehalwan was sitting behind the deceased. The Tata Safari
 being driven by Vikas Yadav was bearing the registration
 no. PB 07 H 0085 which number he had noted on a slip of
 paper. 1088. Ajay Kumar further stated that after he brought the scooter
 to one side of the road, the vehicle of the accused persons
 passed. On examination, he found that the plug of his
 scooter contained some dust/foreign material which he Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 593 cleaned and thereafter he started his scooter and also went on
 his way. 1089. The witness has stated that he learnt about the involvement
 of Vikas and Vishal Yadav in the present case on 1st March,
 2002 whereupon he went to the police station on 2nd March,
 2002 but he could not meet the Investigating Officer (IO).
 He thereafter again went to the police station Kavi Nagar,
 Ghaziabad on 12th March, 2002 but could not meet the
 investigating officer on this date as well. He thereafter went
 to the police station on 18th March, 2002 when he met the IO
 and gave a statement to him about what he had witnessed. 1090. The witness has identified the Tata Safari seized by the
 police as being the vehicle seen by him on the night of
 16/17th February, 2012 driven by the accused Vikas Yadav
 which was exhibited as Exh.PW 33/P-1. 1091. In the trial against Sukhdev Yadav, the prosecution
 examined Ajay Kumar as PW-14 on 27th July, 2007 who
 reiterated the statement that he made as PW-33 in the trial of
 Vikas and Vishal Yadav. The witness additionally identified
 Sukhdev@Pehalwan present in court as sitting with Vikas
 Yadav on the rear seat. Ajay Kumar thus claimed to be at the spot per chance and
 gave unshaken testimony. 1092. Before examining the several objections urged on behalf of
 the appellants to the credibility of Ajay Kumar's testimony,
 we may firstly refer to settled legal principles for construing
 the evidence of chance witnesses. Mr. Dayan Krishnan,
 learned Additional Standing Counsel for the State has drawn
 our attention to important judicial precedents dealing with
 chance witnesses. In (2012) 5 SCC 216 Hira Lal Pandey v.
 State of U.P., challenge was laid to the testimony of PW-2, a
 chance witness whose evidence was discarded. The
 Supreme Court held that the veracity of PW-2 had been
 tested in cross-examination and his evidence was thus
 reliable. On the issue of chance witnesses, in para 27 of the
 report, the court observed as follows :- No absolute proposition that the testimony of every chance
 witness has to be corroborated has been laid by the Apex
 Court. The judgment has been rendered in the facts of the
 case. It lays down no absolute principle of law as is being
 pressed by learned senior counsel for the appellant. 1097. From the above narration, it cannot be held that merely
 because a witness is a chance witness, his testimony has to
 be viewed with suspicion. The test for reliability, whether
 the witness be a material witness or a chance witness, is the
 trustworthiness and admissibility of his testimony. The
 evidence of Ajay Kumar has to be tested on these principles. Submissions on behalf of Vikas Yadav

1098. It has been urged by Mr. U.R. Lalit, lea rned senior counsel
 for Vikas Yadav that there is no explanation at all for the
 delay between 16th February, 2002 till 18th March, 2002 Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 599 when the statement of Ajay Kumar was recorded under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. by the police. The submission is
 that there is no evidence to support the statement of this
 witness that he had gone to the police station on 2 nd or 12th
 March, 2002. The conduct of the witness in only asking for
 the Investigating Officer Anil Somania at the police station
 and leaving when he was told that he was not there is
 unbelievable. Mr. Lalit has contended that this conduct
 would show that Ajay Kumar is really Somania's man and
 for this reason he did not approach any other police officer at
 the police station. It is contended that the witness could
 have gone to any other senior officer at the police station.
 Moreover, Ajay Kumar was not the witness last seen, it was
 Kamal Kishore who was last seen with the deceased even as
 per the charge sheet. Therefore, the statement of PW-33 to
 the effect that he visited the police station on 2 nd and 12th
 March, 2002 does not inspire any confidence. 1099. Mr. U.R. Lalit, learned senior counsel has pointed out that so
 far as the identity of the accused persons is concerned, Ajay
 Kumar has stated that it was on seeing photographs of Vikas
 and Vishal Yadav in the TV news that he was certain that in
 the night on 16/17th February, 2002 he had seen them in the
 Tata Safari. It is urged that the witness had stated that he
 barely had a two minute interaction in the night time with the Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 600 appellants and it is impossible that he could identify the
 persons in the car in this time. 1100. Learned senior counsel has contended that the information
 about the involvement of the accused persons in commission
 of the offence was in the public domain because they were
 being mentioned on television and press reports. It is urged
 that the photographs of the accused persons were also being
 freely circulated and for all these reasons their belated
 identification by Ajay Kumar is meaningless. 1101. Mr. U.R. Lalit, learned senior counsel has also urged that the
 testimony of PW-33 inspires no confidence when tested
 against the evidence of PW-35 Anil Somania who was the
 investigating officer; that Anil Somania has denied that Ajay
 Kumar gave him any slip mentioning the car number when
 his statement was recorded and also that Ajay Kumar did not
 tear any above mentioned slip in his presence. 1102. Extensive submissions have been made with regard to the
 width of the road to challenge the incident or the spot
 position as testified by the witness. Mr. Lalit urges that Anil
 Somania has also clarified that the width of the road between
 Kavi Nagar and Hapur Chungi after the divider was about 20
 feet and therefore, the testimony of Ajay Kumar about the
 Tata Safari stopping because of the obstruction created by
 his scooter is false. It is further urged that Anil Somania has Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 601 not prepared any site plan of the Hapur Chungi or the
 location where Ajay Kumar's scooter broke down or where
 he accosted the accused persons. It is urged that the
 investigating officer has not cared even to verify the address
 of the witness and that the recording of his statement was
 intentionally not mentioned in the case diary. The
 submission is that for all these reasons, Ajay Kumar is a
 planted witness whose testimony must be rejected outright. 1103. Mr. Sumeet Verma, learned counsel appearing for Vikas
 Yadav has urged that as per the testimony of Ajay Kumar,
 the deceased was seen in the company of the appellants at
 around midnight in the night intervening 16/17th February,
 2002. His body was found in the morning at about 9 a.m.
 i.e. after a time gap of almost nine hours and 60 kms away
 from Hapur Chungi, the place where Ajay Kumar claims to
 have seen them. It is urged that this testimony fails the test
 of proximity of time as well as location test for it to be
 considered a circumstance that the deceased was last seen
 alive in the company of the appellants which could be held
 against them to sustain a conviction for murder of the
 deceased. 1104. Mr. Verma has further urged that according to Ajay Kumar,
 the vehicle in which he had seen the appellants and the
 deceased was proceeding towards Delhi. The body was
 discovered near Khurja which is in the opposite direction. He also draws our attention to the alleged statement of one
 Kamal Kishore brought on record allegedly recorded by the
 Ghaziabad police. In this statement it was stated that around
 1/1.30 a.m. he had seen Vikas Yadav, the driver and a person
 in a red kurta. It is therefore argued that the evidence Ajay
 Kumar was therefore not evidence of last seen. Submissions on behalf of Vishal Yadav

1105. Mr. R. Jethmalani, learned senior counsel on behalf of
 Vishal Yadav, has challenged the veracity of this witness
 submitting that the witness has made a false statement that
 he is residing in Delhi; and that he actually lives with his
 family in Village Bamroli in the District Agra, about three
 hours drive from Delhi and another one hour drive from
 Ghaziabad. It is further urged that the place where Ajay
 Kumar has claimed to have encountered the Tata Safari at
 the Hapur Chungi is at the portion of the road which goes to
 Delhi, a place far away from the witness' usual home and at
 a late hour in the night when persons would normally be in
 their homes with their families. It has further been
 contended that Ajay Kumar has not claimed to have been
 abused by the driver of the car. No description has been
 given of the uncivilized manner in which the driver spoke to
 him. It is unbelievable that any person would note a vehicle
 number in the manner stated by Ajay Kumar. 1106. To support the submission that the plea of Ajay Kumar
 residing at Delhi is false, it is urged that he was unable to
 produce a single document in support of his plea that he was
 residing in tenanted accommodation - he had no rent receipt
 or election card; ration card or any other document at Delhi.
 It is urged that there are too many coincidences in the
 statement of PW-33 Ajay Kumar rendering his story
 implausible and impossible. 1107. It is pointed out that it is in the testimony of PW-33 that he is
 also a Katara, a caste to which the deceased belonged and
 that he also hailed from Village Bamroli which is where the
 Kataras originated from and is therefore an interested
 witness who is to be so disbelieved. 1108. Placing reliance on the statement of the Investigating Officer
 Anil Somania, ld. senior counsel would submit that the
 statement of the witness to the effect that the Tata Safari car
 had to stop because of the broken down scooter is incorrect.
 It was pointed out that the Investigating Officer had stated
 that the width of the road, after the divider, towards Hapur
 towards Delhi is about 20 feet, and that from the main road
 to PCA, the kuchha road was seven feet wide. Therefore
 even if a scooter had broken down, there was enough room
 and no need for the Tata Safari to stop. 1109. It is urged by learned senior counsel that the prosecution had
 attributed disclosure statements to the accused and also
 claimed to have recovered the Tata Safari on 11th March,
 2002. The car number would have been known therefrom.
 The evidence of Ajay Kumar was therefore planted to fill
 lacunas in the prosecution case. 1110. Challenging the identifications of the occupants of the Tata
 Safari by this witness, learned senior counsel has contended
 that this witness was wearing goggles in court and, therefore,
 there was some difficulty with his vision. It is urged that the
 trial court wrongly denied opportunity to the appellants to
 cross examine him with regard to his capacity to see. 1111. Learned senior counsel would contend that by momentarily
 viewing who is inside the car, it is not possible to identify
 four persons, especially when he did not know one of them.
 It is even more implausible that Ajay Kumar could identify a
 red kurta and a white shawl. 1112. Learned senior counsels for the appellants have also
 challenged the testimony of the witness on the ground that
 Ajay Kumar took no legal action against the car driver for
 which purpose claimed to have noted the number on the slip.
 It is pointed out that the investigating officer has stated that
 Ajay Kumar did not give him any slip mentioning the
 number of the car when his statement under Section 161 Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 605 Cr.P.C . was recorded and that he did not tear any slip in the
 IO's presence. It is urged that even his claim that he
 preserved the slip till 18th March, 2002 is absurd. 1113. Ajay Kumar has also been extensively cross-examined on
 the aspect that the detailed statement given by him in his
 examination-in-chief was not part of his statement under
 Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. which was exhibited on record as
 Exh.PW-33/DA. 1114. Placing reliance on the pronouncement of the Supreme Court
 reported at ( 1996) 7 SCC 163 State of Punjab v. Gurdip
 Singh and Ors. , it is urged that the claim of Ajay Kumar
 being a chance witness must be carefully scrutinized and his
 reasons for being at the claimed place must be extremely
 credible and convincing. Submissions on behalf of Sukhdev @ Pehalwan

1115. Learned counsel for Sukhdev @ Pehalwan has also
 submitted that PW-14 Ajay Kumar (who was examined as
 PW-14 in Sukhdev Pehalwan's trial) has made efforts to
 conceal his real identity as a Katara casting doubt on the
 credibility of his testimony. 1116. It is urged by Mr. Kapoor, ld. counsel that no abuses were
 given to Ajay Kumar by Vikas Yadav. The only statement
 attributed to Vikas Yadav is that he told Ajay Kumar to Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 606 remove the scooter. Therefore, there was no occasion for
 Ajay Kumar to go up to the car of the accused. It is urged
 that the allegation that he was abused is an improvement in
 the witness box and a contradiction as the same is not
 reflected in the statement under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C
 made by Ajay Kumar. In this regard, the previous statement
 of the witness recorded under section 161 Cr.P.C., contains a
 mention that ―uncivilized language‖ was used by the accused
 even though abusive language is not specifically mentioned.
 The submission is that Ajay Kumar being a chance witness,
 it was not safe to act upon his statement. It is urged that
 Ajay Kumar must be disbelieved inasmuch as no
 corroborating evidence was led to support his presence at the
 spot, which could have been easily established by evidence
 of Subhash Chander whom he claimed to have visited. This
 according to Mr. Kapoor, by itself is sufficient to reject the
 testimony of the witness. 1117. Mr. Kapoor, learned counsel has submitted that Ajay Katara
 did not state in his statement under Section 161 of the
 Cr.P.C. that Vikas Yadav had spoken to him in an
 uncivilized manner. Our attention was drawn to the
 statement of Ajay Kumar Katara under Section 161 of the
 Cr.P.C. wherein he has attributed the following statement to
 Vikas: 1120. In the cross-examination by counsel for Vishal Yadav, the
 witness revealed his full name as Ajay Kumar Katara and
 stated that he did not use the surname Katara as part of his
 name. The witness denied the suggestion that he was a
 resident of House No.433, Nagla Taal, Village Bamroli
 Katar, P.S. Bhoki, District Agra but admitted his full address
 being village Bamroli, P.S. Bhoki, District Agra. He has
 categorically denied any relationship between his family and
 the family of Nitish Katara. He admitted that he had cast his
 vote once or twice in the village. He has also denied that the
 family of Nishit Katara (father of the deceased) at any point
 of time lived in village Bamroli or that Virender Katara and
 Karan Singh Katara ever lived in the village Bamroli. 1121. Nitin Katara as well as Ajay Katara have, in their respective
 testimonies, made unequivocal denials that they were related
 to each other or knew each other from before. 1122. Both the mother of the deceased Nilam Katara as well as his
 brother Nitin Katara also categorically denied that they ever
 lived in village Bamroli. 1123. Mr. Dayan Krishnan, learned Additional Standing Counsel
 for the State has submitted that Nilam Katara was the most
 natural witness to whom questions ought to have been put
 with regard to her family and relatives. Her testimony was
 recorded for the first time on 30th April, 2003 and then on
 subsequent dates. She was not cross-examined on any such
 aspect at all. Even in the trial of Sukhdev Yadav, where
 Nilam Katara appeared as PW-14, though some questions
 were put to her about the family of Ajay Kumar, no
 suggestion or cross-examination was put to her about
 whether he was related to her or not. 1124. We have heretofore referred to the rule laid down in (1893) 6
 R 67 Browne v. Dunn which was approved by the Supreme
 Court in ( 1998) 3 SCC 561 State of U.P. v. Nahar Singh and also (2001) 7 SCC 69 Rajender Prasad v. Parshana
 Devi about the effect of failure to cross examine a witness.
 The appellants having failed to put any question to Nilam
 Katara in this regard, cannot raise such issue before this
 court. The evidence on record unequivocally shows that
 there was no relationship between Ajay Katara or the family
 of the deceased Nitish Katara which included Nilam Katara
 and Nitin Katara. 1125. Mr. S.K. Sharma, Advocate appearing for Vishal Yadav has
 submitted that a suggestion was put to PW-33 Ajay Kumar
 to the effect that he was connected with Smt. Nilam Katara
 and he had been planted as a witness to make a false
 statement for implicating the accused. The witness has
 denied all suggestions that he was deposing falsely as he
 belonged to the same community as that of the deceased or
 that he had not gone to visit Subhash Chand. 1126. In the trial of Vikas and Vishal Yadav, PW-39 Nitin Katara
 has admitted that he knew some other person named Ajay
 Prasad who belonged to village Bamroli. The defence
 thereafter has extensively put suggestions to Nitin Katara to
 the effect that Ajay Prasad is the same person known as
 Ajay/Ajay Katara/Ajay Kumar all of which were denied by
 him. Nitin Katara explained that Ajay Prasad was one of his
 relatives alongwith others who came in contact with him
 during the investigation of the case. The witness
 categorically denied that he had introduced Ajay Prasad as a
 witness in the case or that Ajay Prasad was accompanying
 him or his mother regularly to the police station at
 Ghaziabad. 1127. This submission of the appellants must fail on another count. Who is an ―interested witness‖? An interested witness is one
 who is interested in securing conviction of a person out of Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 611 vengeance or enmity. (Ref: 2009 (14) SCALE 54 Ram
 Bharosey v. State of U.P.)

1128. In ( 1996) 1 SCC 65 Kartik Malhar v. State of Bihar , the
 court not only defined an interested witness but also
 observed that mere relationship would not taint the
 testimony of a natural witness. The court held as follows :- examination. However, no discrepancy or error
 could be shown in spite of the fact that he was
 nephew of Kailash (deceased). On careful
 scrutiny of his deposition, his statement was
 found trustworthy. The court further held that
 even if the other witnesses on the spot had not
 supported the prosecution case, Anil (PW 11) Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 613 was a natural witness and had seen the
 incident.‖

 (Emphasis supplied)

1130. It is trite that an eye-witness version cannot be discarded by
 the court merely on the ground that such eye witness
 happened to be a relation or a friend of the deceased. In
 ( 2012) 7 SCALE 165, Dayal Singh and Ors. v. State of
 Uttaranchal , the Supreme Court held that "the concept of
 interested witness essentially must carry with it the element
 of unfairness and undue intention to falsely implicate the
 accused. It is only when these elements are present, and
 statement of the witness is unworthy of credence that the
 Court would examine the possibility of discarding such
 statements. But where the presence of the eye-witnesses is
 proved to be natural and their statements are nothing but
 truthful disclosure of actual facts leading to the occurrence
 and the occurrence itself, it will not be permissible for the
 Court to discard the statements of such related or friendly
 witness". 1131. On this very issue, reference can usefully be made to the
 pronouncement of the Supreme Court reported at (2010) 7
 SCC 759 Dharnidhar v. State of Uttar Pradesh wherein the
 court held as follows:- State of U.P., the court held that conviction of an accused Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 615 was possible on the statement of a sole witness, even if he
 was a son of the deceased and thus, an interested party. The
 condition precedent for such a conviction is that the
 statement of such witness should satisfy the legal parameters laid down by the Supreme Court. Once those parameters are
 satisfied and the statement of the witness is trustworthy,
 cogent and corroborated by other evidence produced by the
 prosecution, oral or documentary, then the court would not
 fall in error of law in relying upon the statement of such
 witness. The observations of the Supreme Court in para 24,
 26 and 27 of the pronouncement may be usefully extracted
 and read as follows:- We are unable to uphold the contention. In our judgment, a witness who is a
 relative of the deceased or victim of a
 crime cannot be characterised as
 ‗interested'. The term ‗interested'
 postulates that the witness has some
 direct or indirect ‗interest' in having the
 accused somehow or the other convicted
 due to animus or for some other oblique
 motive.' 27. It will be useful to make a reference of
 another judgment of this Court, in Satbir
 Singh v. State of U.P. [(2009) 13 SCC 790 : If the prosecution case has been
 supported by the witnesses and no cogent
 reason has been shown to discredit their
 statements, a judgment of conviction can
 certainly be based thereupon. Furthermore, as noticed hereinbefore, at
 least Dhum Singh (PW 7) is an
 independent witness. He had no animus
 against the accused. False implication of
 the accused at his hand had not been
 suggested, far less established.‖‖

 (Emphasis supplied)

1133. A similar view was taken by the Supreme Court in the case
 reported at (2009) 13 SCC 790 Satbir Singh and Ors. v.
 State of Uttar Pradesh. 1134. On the necessity of examining relatives or interested persons
 as witnesses, in AIR 2012 SC 3539, Shyamal Ghosh v. State
 of West Bengal which has been placed by Ms. Ritu Gauba,
 learned APP before us, it has been observed thus: 1142. Before us all the appellants have submitted that the dock
 identification of the appellants by Ajay Kumar Katara
 deserves to be outrightly rejected as the police failed to
 conduct a TIP during investigation. 1143. Under Section 9 of the Indian Evidence Act, facts which
 establish the identity of the accused persons are relevant
 facts. 1144. Mr. Dayan Krishnan has drawn our attention to the
 testimony of Ajay Kumar that he recognised the three
 accused persons prior to the night of 16th /17th February, Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 622 2002. It is submitted that the witness truthfully stated that he
 did not recognize the fourth person in the Tata Safari but he
 accurately described his wearing apparel. Therefore, there is
 no reason to doubt his clear evidence with regard to the court
 identification of the accused persons. Learned Additional
 Standing counsel has contended that the challenge by
 learned senior counsels for Vikas and Vishal Yadav as well
 as by Mr. Kapoor on behalf of Sukhdev @ Pehalwan to the
 identification in court of the appellants as the occupants of
 the Tata Safarai vehicle on the ground that the prosecution
 had failed to conduct a test identification parade during
 investigation is of no significance. In support of his
 submissions on this issue, reliance has been placed on (2011)
 3 SCC 654, Sheoshankar Singh v. State of Jharkhand and
 (2002) 7 SCC 295, Dana Yadav v. State of Bihar. 1145. In the present case, it is an admitted position that the police
 did not conduct Test Identification Parades to get the
 appellants identified during the investigation. Before taking
 up the objection, let us first examine the evidence of Ajay
 Kumar Katara on identification. We have noted above the
 witness' testimony to the effect that Vikas Yadav son of Shri
 D.P. Yadav was driving the vehicle; and that Vishal son of
 Shri Kamal Nath Yadav was sitting behind the driver; a third
 person being a stout pehalwan named Sukhdev was sitting
 along side in the rear while a fourth person wearing a red Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 623 kurta and a shawl seated next to the driver were its other
 occupants. The witness correctly identified Vikas and
 Vishal as present in court. He identified Nitish Katara from
 his photographs. The witness stated that he usually kept
 visiting Ghaziabad as several people knew him and he was
 in the profession of preparing horoscopes and selling gems. 1146. Appearing as PW-14 in Sukhdev's trial, Ajay Kumar has
 again reiterated that he knew Vikas Yadav from before since
 he was a known personality being the son of M.P. Shri D.P.
 Yadav and the whole of Ghaziabad knew him. Ajay Kumar
 further stated that he knew Vishal Yadav at that time since
 he used to roam around alongwith Vishal Yadav. 1147. Ajay Kumar in his testimony as PW-33 on 31st May, 2003
 named the three appellants as seated in the Tata Safari
 vehicle and stated that he did know the fourth person with
 them. He identified the three appellants in their respective
 trials and Nitish Katara from a proven photograph. 1148. With regard to identity of this fourth person the testimony of
 the witness in the first trial is as follows: The relevant extract thereof reads as follows: ....But in case either prayer is not
 granted or granted but no test
 identification parade held, the
 same ipso facto cannot be a ground for
 throwing out evidence of identification
 of an accused in court when evidence
 of the witness, on the question of
 identity of the accused from before, is
 found to be credible. The main thrust
 should be on answer to the question as to
 whether evidence of a witness in court
 to the identity of the accused from
 before is trustworthy or not. In case the
 answer is in the affirmative, the fact that
 prayer for holding test identification
 parade was rejected or although granted,
 but no such parade was held, would not
 in any manner affect the evidence
 adduced in court in relation to identity of
 the accused. But if, however, such an
 evidence is not free from doubt, the same
 may be a relevant material while
 appreciating the evidence of
 identification adduced in court. (c) Evidence of identification of an
 accused in court by a witness is
 substantive evidence whereas that of
 identification in test identification
 parade is, though a primary evidence
 but not substantive one, and the same
 can be used only to corroborate
 identification of the accused by a
 witness in court. (d) Identification parades are held during
 the course of investigation ordinarily at
 the instance of investigating agencies and
 should be held with reasonable dispatch
 for the purpose of enabling the witnesses
 to identify either the properties which are
 the subject-matter of alleged offence or
 the accused persons involved in the
 offence so as to provide it with materials
 to assure itself if the investigation is
 proceeding on right lines and the persons
 whom it suspects to have committed the
 offence were the real culprits. (e) Failure to hold test identification
 parade does not make the evidence of
 identification in court inadmissible,
 rather the same is very much
 admissible in law, but ordinarily
 identification of an accused by a
 witness for the first time in court
 should not form the basis of conviction,
 the same being from its very nature
 inherently of a weak character unless it
 is corroborated by his previous
 identification in the test identification
 parade or any other evidence. The
 previous identification in the test
 identification parade is a check valve to
 the evidence of identification in court
 of an accused by a witness and the
 same is a rule of prudence and not law. (f) In exceptional circumstances only,
 as discussed above, evidence of
 identification for the first time in court,
 without the same being corroborated
 by previous identification in the test
 identification parade or any other Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 633 evidence, can form the basis of
 conviction. (g) Ordinarily, if an accused is not named
 in the first information report, his
 identification by witnesses in court,
 should not be relied upon, especially
 when they did not disclose name of the
 accused before the police, but to this
 general rule there may be exceptions as
 enumerated above.‖

 (Emphasis supplied)

 The objection taken by the appellants has to be examined on
 these legal principles. 1159. So far as Sukhdev @ Pehalwan is concerned, other
 suggestions made by the defence counsel to the witness also
 support his presence in the vehicle in question as testified by
 Ajay Kumar (as PW-14 in Sukhdev Pehalwan's trial).
 Probably in order to establish that Nitish Katara was not
 under any fear or threat in the car learned counsel for
 Sukhdev has suggested the following to PW-14 Ajay Kumar
 Katara in the cross-examination recorded on 27th July, 2007: 1167. Though it was also open to them to do so, the accused
 persons made no application at all requesting a test Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 637 identification parade as noted in para 38(b) of Daya Yadav (supra). 1168. Given the circumstances of the present case, the challenge to
 the identification on the sole ground that the investigating
 agency had failed to conduct a test identification parade is
 unwarranted. (C) The delay in recording statement under Section 161 of the
 Cr.P.C. of Ajay Kumar by the investigating officer
 establishes that he was a planted witness rendering his
 testimony suspicious and unbelievable

1169. Before us, Mr. U.R. Lalit, learned senior counsel assails the
 truth of the testimony of Ajay Kumar on the ground that the
 occurrence took place on the night of the 16/17th February,
 2002. However, the statement of PW-33 Ajay Kumar was
 recorded by the investigating officer SI Anil Somania only
 on 18th March, 2002. The submission is that the delay in
 recording the statement in the instant case, clearly suggests
 that the prosecution was aware of the fact that there was no
 evidence to connect the accused persons with the incident
 and consequently PW-33 Ajay Kumar was planted as a
 chance witness to fill in the gaps in the prosecution story. 1170. Mr. Jethmalani, learned senior counsel has contended that
 the statement of PW-33 Ajay Kumar has been recorded for
 the first time only on 18th March, 2002 and that the delay in
 recording his statement is crucial in the instant case and he Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 638 must be disbelieved on this ground alone. In support of this
 contention, reliance is placed on the pronouncement of the
 Supreme Court reported at ( 1978) 4 SCC 371 Ganesh
 Bhavan Patel and Anr. v. State of Maharashtra . 1171. Mr. R.K. Kapoor, Advocate appearing for Sukhdev @
 Pehalwan also supports the challenge to PW-14 Ajay
 Kumar's testimony on the ground that there was unexplained
 delay in recording the statements under Section 161 of the
 Cr.P.C. of Ajay Kumar. 1172. On the other hand, Mr. Dayan Krishnan, learned Additional
 Standing Counsel for the State has urged that the delay has
 to be examined from the stand point of the Investigating
 Officer alone. The submission is that the delay on the part of
 Ajay Kumar in reporting the fact that he had seen the
 accused along with the decased on the fateful night has been
 adequately explained and is therefore not fatal to the
 prosecution case. 1173. We may first examine the legal parameters on which a
 challenge to the testimony of a witness on the ground of
 delay in his examination by the Investigating Officer has to
 be tested. 1174. Mr. U.R. Lalit has drawn our attention to the pronouncement
 reported at (2011) 1 JCC 646 Yogesh v. State on the issue of Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 639 non-recording of a statement u/s 161 of the Cr.P.C. The
 relevant portion reads as follows:- It is clear that if the testimony of PW-2 is taken
 out from the equation, the entire case of
 circumstantial evidence against the appellant
 Yogesh breaks down.‖

1175. On the issue of delay in examination of a witness by the IO,
 reliance has been placed on (2011) 3 SCC 654 Sheoshankar
 Singh v. State of Jharkhand. In this case, the incident
 occurred on 14th April, 2000 while the statement of the eye
 witness came to be recorded on 2nd June, 2000. The
 following observations of the court on the issue under
 consideration make useful reading: 800, para 32)

 ―32. Contention of Mr Sushil Kumar that
 the investigating officer did not examine
 some of the witnesses on 27-1-1997
 cannot be accepted for more than one
 reason; firstly, because the delay in the
 investigation itself may not benefit the
 accused; secondly, because the
 investigating officer (PW 8) in his
 deposition explained the reasons for
 delayed examination of the witnesses.‖
 (Emphasis by us)

1176. On the same aspect, reference can usefully be made to the
 pronouncement reported at ( 2010) 6 SCC 1 Sidharth
 Vashisht @ Manu Sharma v. State (NCT of Delhi ). The
 following observations of the Supreme Court, wherein a
 similar objection by Mr. R. Jethmalani, learned senior
 counsel was considered, are illuminative on the issue before
 this court: Furthermore, the identity of the appellant as a
 suspect in the present case was not the
 consequence of any delay. Thus, the delay, if
 any, in recording the evidence of witnesses in
 the present case cannot be considered as an
 infirmity in the prosecution case.‖

1177. Reference may usefully be made also to the observations of
 the Supreme Court in the pronouncement reported at (2004) Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 643 1 SCC 414 (para 17) Banti alias Guddu v. State of M.P. wherein the court held as follows :- 52. These are the issues which are no more res
 integra. The consistent view of this Court has
 been that if the explanation offered for the
 delayed examination of a particular witness is
 plausible and acceptable and the Court accepts
 the same as plausible, there is no reason to
 interfere with the conclusion arrived at by the
 courts. This is the view expressed
 in Banti [(2004) 1 SCC 414 : 2004 SCC (Cri)
 294]. Furthermore, this Court has also taken the
 view that no doubt when the Court has to
 appreciate the evidence given by the witnesses
 who are closely related to the deceased, it has to
 be very careful in evaluating such evidence but
 the mechanical rejection of the evidence on the
 sole ground that it is that of an interested
 witness would inevitably relate to failure of
 justice (Brathi [(1991) 1 SCC 519 : 1991 SCC
 (Cri) 203] ). In Satish [(2005) 3 SCC 114 : 53. The delay in examination of witnesses is a
 variable factor. It would depend upon a
 number of circumstances. For example, non-
 availability of witnesses, the investigating Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 648 officer being preoccupied in serious matters,
 the investigating officer spending his time in
 arresting the accused who are absconding,
 being occupied in other spheres of investigation
 of the same case which may require his
 attention urgently and importantly, etc. 54. In the present case, it has come in evidence
 that the accused persons were absconding and
 the investigating officer had to make serious
 effort and even go to various places for
 arresting the accused, including coming from
 West Bengal to Delhi. The investigating officer
 has specifically stated, that too voluntarily, that
 he had attempted raiding the houses of the
 accused even after cornering the area, but of no
 avail. He had ensured that the mutilated body
 parts of the deceased reached the hospital and
 also effected recovery of various items at the
 behest of the arrested accused. Furthermore, the
 witnesses whose statements were recorded
 themselves belonged to the poor strata, who
 must be moving from one place to another to
 earn their livelihood. The statement of the
 available witnesses like PW 2, PW 4, PW 6, and
 the doctor, PW 16, another material witness,
 had been recorded at the earliest. The
 investigating officer recorded the statements of
 nearly 28 witnesses. Some delay was bound to
 occur in recording the statements of the
 witnesses whose names came to light after
 certain investigation had been carried out by the
 investigating officer.‖

 (Emphasis by us) Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 649 1182. An absolute proposition has been urged on behalf of the
 appellants that the testimony of Ajay Kumar deserves to be
 rejected on the sole ground that there was gross delay in the
 recording of his statement under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C.
 by the investigating officer. In the pronouncement reported
 at (2004) 13 SCC 279 Prthivi (Minor) v. Mam Raj and Ors.,
 the Supreme Court rejected such proposition in the following
 terms - ―22. The respondents placed reliance on the
 observations of this Court in (1971) 3 SCC 192
 Balakrushna Swain v. State of Orissa, and in
 (1976) 4 SCC 288 State of Orissa v. Brahmananda Nanda, and contend that the
 evidence of appellant Prithvi was not believable
 because of the long delay in recording the
 statement. We are afraid that neither case lays
 down an absolute proposition of law that delay
 per se destroys the credibility of witnesses'
 statements. The judgments merely point out that
 unexplained delay in recording the statement
 gives rise to a doubt that the prosecution might
 have engineered it to rope the accused into the
 case. Delay in recording the statement of the
 witness can occur due to various reasons and
 can have several explanations. It is for the court
 to assess the explanation and if satisfied, accept
 the statement of the witness.‖

 (Underlining by us) Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 650 1183. Mr. Jethmalani had placed ( 1978) 4 SCC 371, Ganesh
 Bhavan Patel and Anr. v. State of Maharashtra before us.
 This case related to an eye witness account of an incident
 given by PWs Welji, Pramila and Kuvarbai. The court
 observed that there was serious doubt about their being eye
 witnesses of the occurrence on account of the undue delay on
 the part of the investigating officer in recording their
 evidence. It was observed that ―one unusual feature which
 projects its shadow on the evidence of PWs Welji, Pramila
 and Kuvarbai and casts a serious doubt about their being
 eyewitnesses of the occurrence, is the undue delay on the
 part of the investigating officer in recording their statements.
 Although these witnesses were or could be available for
 examination when the investigating officer visited the scene
 of occurrence or soon thereafter, their statements under Section 161 Cr.P.C. were recorded on the following day.
 Welji (P.W. 3) was examined at 8 a.m., Pramila at 9.15 or
 9.30 a.m., and Kuvarbai at 1 p.m. delay of a few hours,
 simpliciter, in recording the statements of eyewitnesses may
 not, by itself, amount to a serious infirmity in the prosecution
 case. But it may assume such a character if there are
 concomitant circumstances to suggest that the investigator
 was deliberately marking time with a view to decide about
 the shape to be given to the case and the eyewitnesses to be
 introduced. A catena of circumstances which lend such
 significance to this delay, exists in the instant case"' There Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 651 is, therefore, no absolute proposition that every delay in
 recording statements by the investigating officer has to result
 in discarding the evidence of such witnesses. 1184. We may note that in Ganesh Bhavan Patel (supra) case the
 circumstances which weighed in favour of discarding the
 testimony of these witnesses were that the FIR was belated;
 the order in which the investigating officer recorded the
 statement of witnesses; the excuse set up by the IO that they
 did not want the girls and the women-folk to be present in
 the Police Station at that hour of the night when the offence
 occurred; and the circumstance that the names of the eye-
 witnesses were not mentioned anywhere in the record till the
 morning of 30th November, 2009 even though the incident
 had occurred on 29th November, 1969. It was held that all
 these circumstances went towards casting a cloud of
 suspicion on the credibility of the entire warp and woof of
 the prosecution story. 1185. It has been pointed out by Mr. Dayan Krishnan that the
 Supreme Court has referred to and distinguished the
 pronouncement in Ganesh Bhavan Patel v. State of
 Maharashtra (Supra) in para 152 of Sidharth Vashisth (supra) which has been relied upon on behalf of the
 appellants before this court and extracted above. 1186. It is therefore trite that delay in recording statements of
 witnesses per se would not necessarily be fatal to the
 prosecution case but the lack of explanataion for the delay or
 the nature of the explanation which may be relevant and
 have a bearing thereon. The fact as to whether the
 investigating officer had knowledge of the existence of the
 witness and still did not record his statement is an extremely
 pertinent matter. Preoccupation of the investigating officer
 with urgent aspects of the investigation, say, arrest of
 absconding accused, effecting searches and recoveries, and
 other such matters may be considered valid explanation for
 the delay occasioned in recording the statements. The delay
 may have occurred because the number of witnesses whose
 evidence had to be recorded was large and time consuming.
 The Supreme Court has held that delay in recording the
 statement is material only if it suggests a malpractice by the
 investigating agency to set up a case and cobble together
 some kind of a prosecution to falsely implicate the accused
 persons. The nature of the revelations of the witness whose
 statement was delayed may also be a factor to be considered
 by the court. 1187. We find that it is equally well settled that even if there is
 some delay, unless the investigating officer is specifically
 questioned thereon, no benefit can be derived thereon by the
 accused. A duty is imposed to carefully scrutinize the Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 653 explanation, if any, tendered by the investigating agency, or
 lack of it for the delay and to evaluate whether it impacts the
 credibility of the witness or the prosecution case in any
 manner. 1188. The delay in recording the statement of Ajay Kumar by the
 Investigating Officer Anil Somania has to be scrutinized in
 the light of these guiding principles. The first question
 which arises before this court is as to whether the
 investigating officer knew about the existence of witness and
 did not examine him deliberately. It is to be seen as to
 whether the investigating officer deliberately bid time to
 introduce false evidence to obtain a wrongful conviction of
 the appellants. 1189. Our attention is drawn to the statement of Ajay Kumar who
 in his cross-examination on behalf of Vikas Yadav has stated
 that he was a regular reader of newspapers and that between
 18 to 28th February, 2002, he had read the newspapers once
 or twice. So far as watching television is concerned the
 witness stated that the media was giving news about the
 murder of Nitish Katara between 18th February and the 28th
 February, 2002 as well as information that the accused
 persons were suspected of having committed the murder.
 The witness admitted the suggestion that he had told the
 investigating officer when he finally met him that on the
 television and in newspapers, the photograph of deceased Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 654 Nitish Katara was being shown repeatedly and that he had
 already read the news about the murder in the newspapers. 1190. Appearing as PW 14 in Sukhdev's trial, the witness has
 explained that it was coming on television that Anil Somania
 was investigating the case. He has therefore, sourced his
 knowledge about the name of the investigating officer to
 information he received from television. Anil Kumar
 categorically stated in his cross-examination that he did not
 have the courage to go to the superior officers of the police
 and also that he did not know Anil Somania before he met
 him on 18th March, 2002. 1191. In his testimony in Sukhdev's trial as PW-14, Ajay Kumar
 reiterated his statement in Vikas and Vishal Yadav's trial
 and stated that his conscience had persuaded him to go to the
 police station. 1192. On the issue as to why the witness did not disclose the
 purpose of his wanting to meet Anil Somania to the police in
 his visits to the station on 2nd and 12th March, 2002, the
 witness has explained that he was apprehensive that it would
 be leaked out as he was scared of Shri D.P. Yadav. 1193. In the judgment dated 28th of May 2002, the learned Trial
 Judge has noted that it was only on 25th February, 2002 the
 finger prints of the dead body were matched with the finger
 prints of the deceased from his driving licence record. There Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 655 is no evidence at all on record to show as to when this fact
 was disclosed by the media or as to when the identity of the
 dead body belonging to Nitish Katara came to the knowledge
 of the witness. In this background, the learned Trial Judge
 has held that there was nothing abnormal in the conduct of
 the witness in harnessing courage and approaching the police
 on 2nd March, 2002 despite knowledge of the influence and
 reputation of the accused persons and the family. It has been
 rightly observed that the witness had no personal interest in
 the matter and therefore, no motivation to act in a hurry. 1194. So far as the failure to discuss the incident with anyone till
 18th March, 2002 is concerned, the witness stated that he
 disclosed the episode only to the investigating officer Anil
 Somania who met him on that day as he apprehended that if
 he revealed the information to anyone also, it would be
 leaked and he would be killed. The witness has further
 stated that he was also given security since 24 th April, 2002
 under court orders after he made a complaint to the court and
 senior police officers and that he had security till date. 1195. As far as whether Ajay Kumar was speaking the truth with
 regard to the non-availability of Anil Somania on 2nd and
 12th March, 2002 is concerned, our attention has been drawn
 by Mr. Krishnan, learned Additional Standing Counsel to the
 deposition of the investigating officer Anil Somania as PW- 35. The investigating officer has explained that on 2nd Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 656 March, 2002, he had proceeded for investigation from the
 police station at 9.30 a.m. after recording GD No.14
 (Exh.PW-35/29). The witness has stated that on 2nd March,
 2002, he had returned to the police station only at 23: 25
 hours. In this regard, GD No. 52 recorded in the police
 station was proved before the trial court as Exh.PW-35/30.
 This contemporaneous evidence (documentary as well as
 oral) establishes that the investigating officer was not
 available in the police station between 09:30 hours and 23:35
 hours on the 2nd of March 2002. 1196. Corroboration of Ajay Kumar's testimony that the
 investigating officer was also not available on 12th March,
 2002 when he went to the police station, is to be found in the
 further testimony of the investigating officer SI Anil
 Somania who has stated that on 12th March, 2002, he had left
 the police station at 11.10 a.m. as he was assigned law and
 order duty on the occasion of Shivratri and has proved GD
 No.24 (Exh.PW-35/41) on record. He returned to the police
 station at 21:35 hours and recorded GD No.42 (Exh.PW-
 35/42) in this regard. Ajay Kumar therefore, could not have
 met the investigating officer on the 12th of March, 2012.
 This was also the day when Nitish Kumar's body was finally
 put to rest and he was cremated. 1197. It is in the evidence of Ajay Kumar that he did not know
 Anil Somania from before and he was able to meet the Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 657 investigating officer only on the 18th of March 2002 when
 the investigating officer recorded not only his statement. It
 is noteworthy that the statements of Shivani Gaur and her
 husband Amit Arora, were also recorded on this date. 1198. It is emphasized by Mr. Dayan Krishnan, learned Additional
 Standing Counsel for the State that till the time Ajay Kumar
 actually met the investigating officer and disclosed his
 knowledge of the events stated, the investigating officer had
 no knowledge about the witness or his knowledge of the
 events. It is submitted that in this background, no delay can
 be attributed to the investigating officer in recording the
 statement of the witness. 1199. Our attention has been drawn to the testimony of PW-35
 Anil Somania wherein he had stated that on 18th March,
 2002, Ajay Kumar had also told him (Anil Somania) that he
 had come to give his statements earlier. The investigating
 officer has also clearly stated that he did not know Ajay
 Kumar and that the witness may be knowing his particulars
 because he was the SO of the police station. Anil Somania
 also confirmed that the witness Ajay Kumar had informed
 him that he did not think it proper to inform the aforenoticed
 facts to anybody else or any other police official except the
 investigating officer because they were not trustworthy. The
 investigating officer has clearly stated that no constable told
 him that Ajay Kumar had come to meet him. 1200. The witness further stated that he was unaware that Nishit
 Katara, husband of the complainant Nilam Katara belonged
 to Ajay Kumar's village Bamroli (actually called Bamroli
 Katara). Despite extensive cross-examination on the issue of
 delay, there is no material at all on record to show that the
 investigating officer had the remotest clue about the
 existence of PW-33 Ajay Kumar before the 18th of March,
 2002. No question has been put to the Investigating Officer
 that he knew about Ajay Kumar who was available and that
 he was deliberately marking time despite knowledge that the
 witness was available. The investigating officer cannot,
 therefore, be faulted for recording the statement of PW-33
 Ajay Kumar on 18th March, 2002 when he learnt about his
 existence which was on the very first occasion after getting
 information about his existence. 1201. The appellants have not set up a case that Ajay Kumar was
 inimical or on visiting terms with any of them. It is pertinent
 to note that Ajay Kumar makes no allegation against Shri
 D.P. Yadav for the period before his deposition as well. 1202. So far as delay by Ajay Katara in informing the investigating
 officer is concerned, he was also not witness to any crime
 but had merely seen Vikas, Vishal Yadav, Sukhdev @
 Pehalwan as well as a person wearing a red kurta in the Tata
 Safari vehicle near the Hapur chungi on the night of 16/17 th
 February, 2002. It is from media reports and TV telecasts Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 659 that Ajay Kumar realized that the fourth person whom he
 had seen in the company of the accused persons was Nitish
 Katara in the Tata Safari vehicle on the fateful night. 1203. In ( 2008) 11 SCALE 557, Gunnan v. State of A.P. , it has
 been held that unless the investigating officer was
 categorically asked as to why there was delay in examination
 of the witness, the defence cannot take any advantage
 therefrom. It is therefore trite that mere delay in recording
 the statement of a witness during investigation may not be a
 ground to disbelieve the witness unless the investigating
 officer was categorically asked as to why there was delay in
 examination of the witness. Admittedly, no question was put
 to the investigating officer on behalf of Vikas, Vishal Yadav
 or Sukhdev @ Pehalwan as to why and how the delay
 occurred in recording the statement of any of the witnesses
 during investigation. This reason by itself is sufficient to
 reflect the submission that Ajay Kumar's testimony has to be
 disbelieved because of delay in recording his statement
 during investigation. 1204. Both Ajay Kumar Katara and the IO Anil Somania have
 explained the circumstances in which though Ajay Kumar
 went to the police station on the 2nd and 12th of March 2002,
 but he could not meet the investigating officer. Anil
 Somania has established that he did not know about the
 existence of Ajay Kumar prior to 18th March, 2002 and he Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 660 has recorded his statement on the same date. The appellants
 have been unable to establish any circumstance which would
 enable this court to conclude that Anil Kumar was a planted
 witness at the hands of the complainant or the prosecution.
 We therefore are unable to agree with the appellants that
 there is unexplained delay in recording the statement under Section 161 of Cr.P.C. Ajay Kumar, the prosecution witness
 or that his testimony deserves to be rejected for this reason. 1205. ―Hue and cry‖ notices with photographs are issued in order
 to get members of the general public to give evidence about
 any knowledge that they might have with regard to a
 criminal offence. It is, therefore, expected that members of
 the public would respond to photographs in the print or
 electronic media and to approach the police. The response
 or reaction to such notice varies from person to person. In
 this case as well notices were issued, photographs published. 1206. Ajay Kumar was not a witness to any criminal act and had
 merely seen four persons sitting in a car. In the instant case
 two vehicles - one Ajay Kumar's scooter, the other, a Tata
 Safari vehicle after the brief interlude, move on their
 respective paths. The scooter driver (Ajay Kumar) returns
 home. He subsequently sees news of the murder in
 newspapers and on television. Photographs of the deceased
 and the suspects are being published by the media. He is able
 to connect the two persons being named as the possible Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 661 assailants of the deceased he had seen in the Tata Safari on
 the night of 16/17th February, 2002 at the Hapur Chungi. He
 also learns the name of the investigating officer from the
 television reports and decides that he must tell the police
 about what he had seen on the fateful night. He is also
 unrelated to the deceased and has no reason to be concerned. 1207. Ajay Kumar has testified about his fears about giving
 information about family members of influential persons
 which made him reluctant to approach the police till his
 conscience got the better of him. Even after he approached
 the police, his diffidence is apparent from the manner in
 which he approached the police on the 2 nd and 12th of March,
 2002 when, upon learning about the absence of the
 Investigating Officer, he went away without meeting anyone
 else. This is not unusual. Procrastination about visits to
 doctors, dentists, police etc. are well known when
 apprehension about painful procedures or fear of authority
 discourages many people. 1208. We have noted it in detail the extreme preoccupation of the
 investigating officers during this period. Extensive searches
 in several States to trace the appellants as well as the
 deceased were necessitated. Disclosure by two of the
 accused persons led to recoveries being effected on their
 pointing out. Again to recover the Tata Safari vehicle the
 accused deliberately misled the police to different cities in Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 662 different States. For every step, the Investigating Officer
 had to take the CJM's permission. Vikas and Vishal Yadav
 deliberately complicated the matters for the Ghaziabad
 police by getting themselves implicated in criminal cases in
 Dabra, Distt. Gwalior necessitating permissions from the
 court in Dabra as well as shifting of their custody between
 two places. Identification of the dead body was itself a
 difficult matter requiring a DNA examination. Forensic
 examination of the recovered article was also necessary. The
 parties also approached higher courts which proceedings had
 to be attended by the investigating agency. Till the 18 th of
 March 2002, Investigating Officer Anil Somania had no
 knowledge about the existence of the witness Anil Kumar.
 The investigating officer has explained his actions on every
 day of investigation from the 17th of February 2002 and
 cannot be faulted for not recording the statement of Ajay
 Kumar prior to 18th of March 2002. 1209. The learned trial judge has found no fault with the testimony
 of Ajay Kumar either because of delay in his approaching
 the police or his conduct. The learned trial judge has rightly
 noted that so far as the police was concerned, the identity of
 the dead body was established only on 25th February, 2002
 when the finger prints from the dead body were matched
 with the finger prints of the deceased Nitish from the record
 of his driving license. In the light of the observations of the Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 663 Supreme Court and the facts and circumstances of the case,
 we see no reason to disagree with the findings of the learned
 Trial Judges on this aspect. (D) Challenge to the implausibility of the occurrence on
 account of the width of the road
1210. The appellants challenge the implausibility of the occurrence
 at Hapur Chungi on the ground that the width of the road
 was such that even if the scooter of the witness Ajay Kumar
 had actually broken down, there was more than enough
 passage for another vehicle to pass on its side.
 Consequently, even if Ajay Kumar's scooter had broken
 down as alleged, there was no need at all for the Tata Safari
 vehicle to stop. It is pointed out that the investigating officer
 Anil Somania had stated that the road was 20 feet wide and
 that there was a kuchha road of 7 feet and that even Ajay
 Kumar has stated that the road was 15 feet wide. 1211. In the witness box, Ajay Kumar has explained that the
 scooter had broken down just in the middle of the road and
 was in a slanting position due to which it was causing
 obstruction to the other vehicles at Hapur Chungi. The
 witness states that he had crossed the round-about and was
 on the road leading to Delhi when the vehicle of the accused
 persons came along the road coming from Diamond Palace.
 The witness stayed firm on the aspect that no vehicle could Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 664 have passed without him removing the scooter from the
 place where the scooter had broken down. 1212. Ajay Kumar has been extensively cross-examined on the
 aspect of the width of the road and that despite the scooter
 having stopped on the road, there was sufficient passage for
 another vehicle to pass without having to remove the
 scooter. 1213. In his examination-in-chief, we find that Ajay Kumar did say
 that the scooter had stopped in the middle of the road and on
 its side was a pole, so a vehicle could not pass from there. 1214. Ajay Kumar also could not be shaken on his statement that
 the vehicle of the accused persons had stopped just behind
 him and he had been asked to remove the scooter. 1215. In his testimony, the Investigating Officer, Anil Somania has
 stated that the vehicles could not go on the kuchha road and
 that one heavy vehicle cannot overtake another heavy
 vehicle if the speed is fast. The investigating officer has
 further stated that there was a sign board of the police station
 at the spot. 1216. The site position which emerges therefore is that on the right
 side of the vehicle was a divider while on the left side, the
 main road was flanked by a kuchha road. There was an
 electricity pole as well as a sign board of a police station at Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 665 the spot. Vehicles could not travel on the kuchha area
 flanking the road. 1217. In support of their defence that the road was wide and that
 there was sufficient space for the Tata Safari to pass even if
 the scooter had broken down, the appellants examined as a
 defence witness DW-13 Sarvesh Kumar Harit. He has
 testified with regard to a site plan prepared on 1st August,
 2007 which would obviously not depict the status of the road
 in the year 2002. This witness had no personal knowledge
 about the matter and did not know as to how many times, the
 road had been renovated since 2002. The witness did admit
 that the area had undergone several changes. 1218. It would, therefore, appear that the Tata Safari vehicle was
 compelled to stop not because there was insufficient space
 on the side but because it was right behind the scooter. The
 location of Ajay Kumar's scooter, whether on the
 right/middle or left side of the road is also of no
 consequence. In view of this position, any variation between
 the statement of the width of the road between PW-33 Ajay
 Kumar and PW-35 Anil Somania loses significance. 1219. The appellants also question Ajay Kumar's attribution of
 utterances made by Vikas Yadav, the driver of the vehicle at
 that time. Let us now examine the reason put forth by the
 witness for going up to the vehicle. 1220. So far as the conduct of Vikas Yadav is concerned, Ajay
 Kumar has stated that Vikas Yadav asked him in a very loud
 tone to remove the scooter and that the entire episode of his
 going up to the vehicle and coming back and removing the
 scooter took between 2-3 minutes. 1221. Ajay Kumar (PW-33) has stated in the first trial that Vikas
 Yadav who was driving the Tata Safari, spoke to him in an
 uncivilized manner. In cross-examination, he stated that
 Vikas Yadav spoke in a loud voice and told him to remove
 the scooter. 1222. Mr. Dayan Krishnan, learned Additional Standing Counsel
 has drawn our attention to the testimony of Ajay Katara as
 PW-14 in the trial of Sukhdev @ Pehalwan wherein he
 reiterated his previous statement in the Vikas Yadav trial and
 testified that ―the scooter stopped moving and the moment I
 got down from the scooter a vehicle Tata Safari came from
 the side of Kavi Nagar Police Station at a fast speed from
 behind and accused Vikas Yadav whom I knew before the
 aforesaid incident asked me to remove the scooter from the
 road immediately‖. In answer to a question as to whether
 other vehicles could pass, Ajay Kumar (as PW-14) has stated
 ―however, the vehicle of the accused had stopped just behind
 me, I was asked to remove the scooter‖. In answer to a court
 question in Sukhdev Pehalwan's case, the witness stated that
 the vehicle of the accused stopped behind him immediately Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 667 after half a minute when his scooter had stopped at the spot.
 The time of course has to be an estimation. What the
 witness is conveying is merely that the interval was short. 1223. It needs no elaboration at all that even polite words when
 spoken in a rude manner could incite anger in the person so
 addressed. Civility, or not, in speech would be a matter of
 perception in the mind of the person addressed. It is not the
 content of the utterance or the words used alone which
 would determine a person's reaction or the import. The
 manner of address may assume importance, especially in
 incidents involving outsiders or in public places as on the
 street. 1224. In the instant case, the witness has testified about Vikas
 Yadav telling the witness to move his scooter. Facially the
 demand by Vikas Yadav seems innocuous. It appears that
 Ajay Kumar Katara took umbrage at the manner in which he
 was being told and had, therefore, stepped towards the driver
 of the Tata Safari vehicle. Mere reference by the witness to
 what was uttered by the driver as ‗abuse' in his testimony in
 Sukhdev Yadav's trial would not in any way lead to a
 conclusion that the testimony of the witness was a lie. 1225. More often than not, if a vehicle breaks down in the middle
 of the road, people do not move the broken vehicle to the
 shoulder of the roads. It is often seen that they commence Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 668 repairs to the vehicle in the middle of the road, unmindful of
 and without concern for the traffic behind which has to pass.
 Furthermore, when moving at a fast speed, if the vehicle in
 front stops suddenly, it is difficult to immediately bypass it
 and perforce one would be compelled to initially come to a
 halt, may be swerve or even have to reverse and then pass
 the vehicle which has stopped. This appears to be the
 scenario which emerged when Ajay Kumar's scooter broke
 down compelling the Tata Safari, immediately behind, to
 come to a halt. The demand made by Vikas Yadav to Ajay
 Kumar to move his scooter does not appear to stem from a
 necessity because there was no space, but smacks of
 arrogance and irritation of the car driver at the compulsion to
 unnecessarily stop (or even to break speed). That this was
 necessitated by a mere scooter, would have aggravated the
 irritation. It may have no relation at all to sufficiency or
 insufficiency of free space beyond the scooter. 1226. The reaction of the driver of the Tata Safari vehicle is also
 not uncommon. It is also not unusual for persons in larger
 vehicles to take umbrage upon being compelled to stop
 because somebody's vehicle has broken down in their path,
 compelling them to slow down, or, as in the present case,
 come to a complete halt. Such arrogance is more often than
 not displayed on our roads. That the person who is told to
 move his vehicle which is blocking the way, instead of Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 669 complying with the demand, goes to the person who is
 making the demand to confront or accost him, is also
 something which is not unusual. 1227. In terms of the provisions of Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. and
 the judgment of the Supreme Court in Jaswant Singh v.
 State of U.P. (supra), the defence was required to question
 the investigating officer as to whether he had put questions
 to Ajay Katara with regard to all of the above as well as the
 manner and the tone used by the accused person. No such
 question has been put to SO Anil Somania. In this
 background, it cannot be held that the testimony of Ajay
 Katara in the witness box is either an improvement or a
 contradicition. 1228. We find that the Ld. Trial Judge in the judgment dated 28th
 May, 2008 has analysed the material on record and rejected
 these objections of the appellants. 1229. In Sukhdev Pehalwan‟s trial as well, the learned Trial Judge
 has carefully considered the challenge by the appellants to
 the narration of events by Ajay Kumar Katara based on the
 contention that the road was wide enough to permit the Tata
 Safari to pass, even if Ajay Katara's scooter had broken
 down and rejected the same. In the judgment dated 6th July,
 2011, the learned Trial Judge has observed that the witness's
 testimony that he was compelled to go close to the vehicle of Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 670 the accused persons because of the uncivilised language used
 by Vikas Yadav when he had to halt his Tata Safari
 immediately behind the scooter of the witness, was ―usual
 human behaviour reaction and it could not be described as
 behaviour abnormality‖. 1230. It is also noted by the ld. Judge that no question was put and
 there was no evidence to the effect that the Tata Safari was
 not compelled to come to stop because of the scooter
 obstructing its passage. 1231. We find that the question is not as to whether the vehicle
 could have passed by the scooter or not but whether it was
 forced to come to a halt because of the scooter coming to a
 sudden halt or not. 1232. The incident on the Hapur Chungi is also plausible inasmuch
 as it is in the testimony of Ajay Kumar that the car was
 immediately upon his scooter and stopped just behind the
 broken down scooter. Ajay Kumar has testified that he had
 just stopped when the Tata Safari vehicle came from behind
 on his left side. The testimony of Ajay Katara in this regard
 is quite clear and devoid of any ambiguity. Merely because
 the total width of the road was such that more than one
 vehicle could pass simultaneously could not detract from the
 manner in which the two vehicles have been forced to stop. We are of the considered view that the entire issue about the
 width of the road is irrelevant with regard to the turn of
 events at the Hapur Chungi on the fateful night given the
 established facts on record before us. (E) Whether the variance in testimony of Ajay Kumar and
 Investigating Officer Anil Somania about tearing of slip
 discredits his entire testimony? 1233. Learned senior counsels on behalf of the appellants as well
 as Mr. Kapoor, learned counsel for Sukhdev Yadav have
 dwelt at length on the statement by Ajay Kumar that he
 noted the registration number of the Tata Safari in which he
 had seen the accused and the deceased in the right of the
 16th/17th February of 2002 and that he tore the slip in front of
 the investigating officer PW-35 Anil Somania. This
 statement of Ajay Kumar is not corroborated by the
 testimony of the Investigating Officer Anil Somania. The
 submission is that this is a material contradiction completely
 discrediting Ajay Kumar who deserves to be therefore
 disbelieved. We now propose to consider what is the effect of this
 divergence on the worth of the evidence of Ajay Kumar
 Katara? Is it a contradiction in material terms which would
 persuade us to disbelieve the witness? 1234. Certain essential facts are required to be borne in mind in
 order to appreciate this statement. PW-33 Ajay Kumar is not Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 672 a witness to the recovery of the car. The Tata Safari vehicle
 was recovered on the pointing out of the accused pursuant to
 the disclosure statement. No dispute to this material
 evidence is raised by the appellants. Even if evidence about
 the slip is rejected, it only contained the registration number
 of the vehicle. The witness has remained categorical that the
 vehicle which had stopped was of the Tata Safari make. 1235. On the aspect of the conduct of witnesses, some observations
 made by the Supreme Court on the variations in the manner
 in which people, who may be witnesses to in criminal
 offences, may react deserve to be noticed. The Supreme
 Court has discussed and laid down the law on variations,
 discrepancies, omissions, improvements and contradictions
 between different parts of testimony of the witness as well as
 between narrations of different witnesses about the same fact
 or circumstances in several judgments. In this regard, para
 11 of the judgment reported at (1999) 9 SCC 595 Leela Ram
 (Dead) through Duli chand v. State of Haryana wherein
 reference is made to several judicial precedents, is material
 and read as follows :- 656-57, paras 25-27) 25. It is a common practice in trial courts
 to make out contradictions from the
 previous statement of a witness for
 confronting him during cross- examination. Merely because there is
 inconsistency in evidence it is not
 sufficient to impair the credit of the
 witness. No doubt Section 155 of the
 Evidence Act provides scope for
 impeaching the credit of a witness by
 proof of an inconsistent former statement.
 But a reading of the section would
 indicate that all inconsistent statements
 are not sufficient to impeach the credit of
 the witness. xxx xxx xxx 26. A former statement though seemingly
 inconsistent with the evidence need not
 necessarily be sufficient to amount to
 contradiction. Only such of the
 inconsistent statement which is liable to
 be ‗contradicted' would affect the credit
 of the witness. xxx xxx xxx 27. To contradict a witness, therefore,
 must be to discredit the particular version Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 676 of the witness. Unless the former
 statement has the potency to discredit the
 present statement, even if the latter is at
 variance with the former to some extent it
 would not be helpful to contradict that
 witness (vide Tahsildar Singh v.State of
 U.P. [ AIR 1959 SC 1012 : 1959 Supp (2)
 SCR 875] ).‖

 xxx xxx xxx 11. The Court shall have to bear in mind
 that different witnesses react differently
 under different situations: whereas some
 become speechless, some start wailing while
 some others run away from the scene and yet
 there are some who may come forward with
 courage, conviction and belief that the wrong
 should be remedied. As a matter of fact it
 depends upon individuals and individuals.
 There cannot be any set pattern or uniform rule
 of human reaction and to discard a piece of
 evidence on the ground of his reaction not
 falling within a set pattern is unproductive and a
 pedantic exercise. 12. It is indeed necessary to note that one
 hardly comes across a witness whose
 evidence does not contain some exaggeration
 or embellishment -- sometimes there could
 even be a deliberate attempt to offer
 embellishment and sometimes in their
 overanxiety they may give a slightly
 exaggerated account. The court can sift the
 chaff from the grain and find out the truth
 from the testimony of the witnesses. Total
 repulsion of the evidence is unnecessary. The
 evidence is to be considered from the point of
 view of trustworthiness. If this element is Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 677 satisfied, it ought to inspire confidence in the
 mind of the court to accept the stated evidence
 though not however in the absence of the
 same.‖
 (Emphasis by us)
1236. The judgment of the Supreme Court in Leela Ram (supra)
 was followed in another judgment reported at (2011) 9 SCC
 698, Rakesh & Anr. v. State of M.P.

1237. The following observations of the Supreme Court in the
 judgment reported at 1988 Supp SCC 241 : 1988 SCC (Cri)
 559 : AIR 1988 SC 696 Appabhai v. State of Gujarat in
 para 11 of the report (SCC pp. 245-46) and para 13 (SCC
 page 245-247) on the variation in the reactions of different
 people to the same occurrence and appreciation of evidence
 are also topical and read as follows :- These discrepancies are due to normal
 errors of observation, normal errors of
 memory due to lapse of time, due to
 mental disposition such as shock and
 horror at the time of the occurrence, and
 the like. Material discrepancies are those
 which are not normal, and not expected
 of a normal person.‖ 35. The courts have to label the category to
 which a discrepancy belongs. While normal
 discrepancies do not corrode the credibility of a
 party's case, material discrepancies do so.
 (See Syed Ibrahim v. State of A.P. [(2006) 10 Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 686 SCC 601 : (2007) 1 SCC (Cri) 34 : AIR 2006
 SC 2908] and Arumugam v. State[(2008) 15
 SCC 590 : (2009) 3 SCC (Cri) 1130 : AIR 2009
 SC 331] .) 36. In Bihari Nath Goswami v. Shiv Kumar
 Singh [(2004) 9 SCC 186 : 2004 SCC (Cri)
 1435] this Court examined the issue and held: 37. While deciding such a case, the court has to
 apply the aforesaid tests. Mere marginal
 variations in the statements cannot be dubbed as
 improvements as the same may be elaborations
 of the statement made by the witness earlier.
 The omissions which amount to contradictions
 in material particulars i.e. go to the root of the
 case/materially affect the trial or core of the
 prosecution case, render the testimony of the
 witness liable to be discredited.‖
 (Emphasis supplied)

1246. It is therefore trite that the conduct of a person in the witness
 box various from person to person and a solemn duty is
 attached to the role of the judge in appreciating the evidence
 which has been led. The judicial pronouncements emphasise
 that witness testimony has to be examined keeping in mind Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 687 that exaggerations or embellishments on the part of human
 beings appearing in the witness box are in fact natural. It is
 well settled that it is only contradiction in material
 particulars and not in matters of detail which would render
 the testimony of witnesses unacceptable. 1247. It is equally well settled that embellishments in testimony
 would also by themselves not detract from a truthfulness of
 the testimony of a witness and that the court has to separate
 embellishments from the factual narration. 1248. Variations in testimony in minor details thus are immaterial
 so far as appreciation of evidence is concerned. It is
 contradictions and variations in material particulars which
 would require the court to evaluate the extent of the witness
 to be considered credible. 1249. Mr. P.K. Dey, learned counsel for the complainant has
 drawn out attention to the pronouncement of the Supreme
 Court reported at 1988 (Supp) SCC 686, State of U.P. v.
 Anil Singh wherein also the court considered the aspect of
 rejection of the prosecution version for various reasons
 including improvements in the court testimony. The court
 has again made observations with regard to the conduct of
 persons in the witness box, especially with regard to the
 embellishments to the prosecution story in the witness box. These observations deserve to be considered in extenso and
 read as follows: But that is no ground to throw the case
 overboard, if true, in the main. If there is a ring
 of truth in the main, the case should not be
 rejected. It is the duty of the court to cull out the
 nuggets of truth from the evidence unless there
 is reason to believe that the inconsistencies or
 falsehood are so glaring as utterly to destroy
 confidence in the witnesses. It is necessary to
 remember that a Judge does not preside over a
 criminal trial merely to see that no innocent man
 is punished. A Judge also presides to see that a
 guilty man does not escape. One is as important
 as the other. Both are public duties which the
 Judge has to perform.‖

 (Underlining by us)

1250. In the cross-examination conducted by counsel for Vishal
 Yadav, Ajay Kumar has stated that he noted the number of
 the Tata Safari vehicle on a slip because Vikas Yadav had
 talked to him in an uncivilized manner and humiliated him Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 690 and so he had at that time entertained the intention to report
 the matter. PW-33 explained that he dropped the idea of
 reporting the matter because of the fact that Vikas Yadav
 was the son of an M.P.

1251. It is noteworthy that even Ajay Kumar does not state that he
 had given the slip (on which he noted the number of the
 vehicle) to the investigating officer. He has merely stated
 that he revealed number of the car from the slip and
 thereafter he had torn the same in the police station in
 presence of SO Anil Somania. 1252. The tearing of the slip on which the witness claimed to have
 written the registration number of the Tata Safari vehicle is
 irrelevant to the matters in issue. At its highest, Ajay Kumar
 may have embellished his testimony when he says that he
 tore the slip before the investigating officer. 1253. In his cross-examination, Ajay Kumar stated that he had
 noted down the number of Tata Safari ―as the accused had
 talked to me in uncivilized manner and humiliate me with the
 intention to report but looking at the fact that he was son of
 an MP, I dropped the idea. I after making stt to Mr.
 Somania told number from the slip in which I noted.
 Thereafter I torn it ―. The witness denied the suggestion that
 the Investigating Officer had shown him the Tata Safari
 standing in the police station and that he has also told the Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 691 witness that he was recording the number of the Tata Safari
 in his statement. 1254. The witness has thus explained that he did not take action
 against the driver Vikas Yadav because he was aware of the
 connections of his father as well as the influence (‗terror‟)
 wielded by him. 1255. It is well settled that every discrepancy or variation in the
 evidence does not affect, the adjudication by the court or tilt
 the balance of justice in favour of the accused in every case.
 It has been repeatedly emphasized by the Supreme Court that
 there are only such contradictions and variations in material
 particulars which are of a serious nature and which
 apparently or impliedly are destructive of the substantive
 case sought to be proved by the prosecution, which may
 provide an advantage to the accused. 1256. In view of the above discussion, at its highest if it was to be
 held that there was a contradiction in the testimony of two
 witnesses, the impact of such embellishment would be, to
 that extent such part of the testimony of the witness would
 required to be ignored and nothing more. In view of the
 established facts on record, the same by itself is insufficient
 to reject the testimony of Ajay Kumar as an untruthful
 witness. 1257. It was the appellants Vikas and Vishal Yadav who made the
 disclosures about the use of the Tata Safari vehicle on the
 night of the 16th of February 2002 in the commission of the
 crime. The accused led the police to Alwar (Rajasthan);
 Panipat (Hariyana) and finally to Karnal and pointed out the
 Tata Safari vehicle in the factory of their father. 1258. Even Ct. Satender Pal Singh has testified that the Tata Safari
 in which he had spotted the three appellants and a fourth
 person had a registration number of Punjab. Ajay Kumar
 was not a witness to the recovery of the vehicle. Therefore
 even if his testimony about the slip was ignored, it would not
 impact the truth or veracity of the rest of the prosecution
 case. 1259. The witness stood by his testimony on all material counts
 and could not be shaken in cross examination. His testimony
 that the appellants were in a Tata Safari vehicle has not been
 dented.Other than PW 35 Anil Somania denying the slip
 being torn in his presence, no other contradiction is pointed
 out by the appellants. The Investigating Officer would have
 been more concerned about carefully recording the
 statement, rather than noticing the actions of the witness. It
 is very probable that tearing of the slip escaped his notice.
 Looked at from any angle, this contradiction between the
 testimony of Ajay Kumar and SO Anil Somania is not a
 contradiction which impacts the core of the prosecution case. The testimony of the witness cannot be thrown out for this
 reason. (F) Ajay Kumar was not a resident of Delhi

1260. In both trials, Ajay Kumar disclosed his address as House
 no.D-50/1, Gali No.10, Brahampuri, Shahdara, Delhi where
 he lived from September, 2001 to 2002 as a tenant of Harish
 Chand on the monthly rent of Rs.800/- per month for which
 no receipt was being issued by the landlord and for which
 there was no rent agreement. The witness claimed that the
 landlord of the house in Delhi in Brahmpuri was known to
 him and that he was in the profession of preparing horoscope
 and selling gems, for which he kept visiting people. 1261. The appellants have challenged Ajay Kumar's claim that he
 was a resident of Delhi and submitted that he had no reason
 to be on the road leading to Delhi at the Hapur Chungi on the
 fateful night. 1262. In his cross-examinations Ajay Kumar reitereated the above
 statement made in his examination-in-chief. The statements
 of the witness could not be successfully challenged. The
 witness was extensively cross-examined about his residence
 in Delhi when the witness had explained that his family lived
 in Agra; that he had come to Delhi to start the work of
 preparing horoscopes in Delhi and therefore he was living
 alone in the rented house but since his work of preparing Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 694 horoscopes did not run properly in Delhi, he went back to
 Agra. As he lived for only a short period on rent in Delhi,
 no election card, ration card or any other document was
 prepared bearing his Delhi address. 1263. In case Ajay Kumar had made a false deposition, it was open
 for the appellants to examine Harish Kumar as a defence
 witness. The appellants opted not to call the landlord even
 though they had full details of Ajay Kumar's landlord. The
 appellants have all led evidence in defence. 1264. The investigating officer did not see reason to disbelieve the
 witness. The credibility of the witness on this aspect cannot
 be doubted. The submission on behalf of the appellants to
 the effect that the investigating officer ought to have
 further verified and corroborated this claim of the witness is
 completely misplaced. (G) Whether the trial stands vitiated as the prosecutor was
 permitted to put leading questions to Ajay Kumar?
1265. It has been argued by Mr. U.R. Lalit, learned senior counsel
 that the learned trial court has unfairly permitted leading
 questions to be put by the Special Public Prosecutor to Ajay
 Kumar which clearly suggested the answer and the entire
 trial would stand vitiated for this reason. In support of this
 submission, reliance has been placed upon the Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 695 pronouncement of the Supreme Court reported at (1993)
 Supp. 3 SCC 745 Varkey Joseph v. State of Kerala . 1266. Appearing on behalf of Vishal Yadav, Mr. Ram Jethmalani,
 learned senior counsel also has contended that the learned
 trial Judge repeatedly allowed leading questions to be put to
 the witness on crucial points which was not permissible
 under Sections 141 and 142 of the Evidence Act. It is
 submitted that this action was not justified by any reasoned
 order. 1267. Before us, the following questions which were put to Ajay
 Kumar have been so objected to by learned senior counsel
 for Vikas Yadav and counsel for Vishal Yadav: 1269. Before specifically dealing with the questions to which the
 objection is made, we may consider the applicable legal
 principles on this issue. Our attention is drawn to the
 authoritative text by Phipson on Evidence (16th Edition)
 wherein the author has pointed out three exceptions to the
 prohibition against putting leading questions to a witness and
 has stated as follows (12-21 at pg 1031):- 1404]. It is therefore not only permissible but
 proper to lead on matters introductory or
 undisputed. It saves much time. (2) Identification.--The attention or a witness
 may be directly pointed to some persons or
 things, for the purpose of identifying them. For
 instance, it is usual to ask a witness if the
 accused is the person whom he refers to. This
 form of question is obviously unsatisfactory and
 the testimony does not carry much weight. "In
 the present day it is considered the proper Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 699 method for counsel merely to ask, Do you see
 the person in court? and leave the witness to
 identify the prisoner" [Powell 9th Ed pp. 528-
 29]. It is advisable not to lead under such
 circumstances.Although it would be perfectly
 regular to point to the accused and ask a witness
 if that is the person to whom his evidence
 relates, yet if the witness can, unassisted, single
 out the accused, his testimony will have more
 weight [Best s. 643]. As to identification
 evidence, see ante pg 88-89. (3) Contradictions.--A witness may be asked
 leading questions in order to contradict
 statements made by another witness, e.g. if A
 has said that B told him so and so; B may be
 asked, Did you ever say that to A? xxx xxx xxx
 (4) Helping Memory.--The rule will be
 relaxed where the inability of a witness to
 answer questions put in the regular way
 obviously arises from defective memory [Best s.
 642]. Thus, where a witness has on account of
 illness, illiteracy, old age or failing memory, or
 other cause apparently forgotten a fact or a
 name, and all attempts to recall it to his mind by
 ordinary questions have failed, his attention
 may be drawn to it by a question in leading
 form. The object is to revive or refresh his
 memory by drawing his attention to a particular
 topic without suggesting the answer. Thus,
 where a witness stated that he was unable to
 remember the names of the members of a firm,
 but that he could recognise and identify them if
 they were read to him, LORD
 ELLENBOROUGH allowed it to be done
 [Acerro v. Petroni, 1 Stark 100]. xxx Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 700 (5) Hostile Witness.--If a witness called by a
 party appears to be hostile or interested for the
 other party, and exhibits a desire to suppress the
 truth, the court may in his discretion allow
 leading questions to be put, i.e. allow him to be
 cross-examined (see s. 154 post). (6) Complicated Matter.--The rule will be
 relaxed, where the inability of a witness to
 answer a question put in the regular way arises
 from the complicated nature of the matter as to
 which he is interrogated [Best s. 642]. The above six exceptions must not be taken as
 exhaustive. The court has always a wide
 discretion in the matter, and it will allow
 leading questions to be put wherever it
 considers necessary in the interests of justice.
 Indeed the judge has, says Taylor, a
 discretionary power--Not controllable by the
 court of appeal [see Lawdon v. L, 5 IR CLR
 27]--of relaxing the general rule, whenever,
 and under whatever circumstances and to
 whatever extent, he may think fit, though the
 power should only be exercised so far as the
 purposes of justice plainly require [Tay s.
 1405]. It is the court, and not the counsel for the
 Crown, who can determine whether leading
 questions should be permitted, and the
 responsibility for the permission rests with the
 court [Barindra v R, 37C 467 14 CWN 114].‖

 (Underlining furnished)

1271. Let us now examine the judicial precedent relied upon by the
 appellants. In para 10 and 11 of (1993) Supp.3 SCC 745 Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 701 Varkey Joseph v. State of Kerala on the issue under
 examination, the Supreme Court held as follows:- examination of the witnesses by the adverse
 party even by leading questions to contradict
 answers given by the witnesses or to test the
 veracity or to drag the truth of the statement
 made by him. Therein the adverse party is
 entitled to put leading questions but Section 142 does not give such power to the prosecutor to
 put leading questions on the material part of the
 evidence which the witness intends to speak
 against the accused and the prosecutor shall not
 be allowed to frame questions in such a manner
 to which the witness answer merely ―yes‖ or
 ―no‖; but he shall be directed to give evidence
 which he witnessed. The question shall not be
 put to enable the witness to give evidence which
 the prosecutor wishes to elicit from the witness
 nor the prosecutor shall put into witness's mouth
 the words which he hoped that the witness will
 utter nor in any other way suggest to him the
 answer which it is desired that the witness
 would give. The counsel must leave the witness
 to tell unvarnished tale of his own account. Sample leading questions extracted
 hereinbefore clearly show the fact that the
 prosecutor led the witnesses to what he intended
 that they should say on the material part of the
 prosecution case to prove against the appellant
 which is illegal and obviously unfair to the
 appellant offending his right to fair trial
 enshrined under Article 21 of the Constitution.
 It is not a curable irregularity.‖
 (Underlining by us) Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 704 1272. Mr. Dayan Krishnan has contended that Varkey Joseph (supra) has been explained in (2010) 6 SCC 87 Siddharth
 Vashisht @ Manu Sharma v. State (Govt. Of NCT of
 Delhi):- 1274. The above narration would also show that to the rule that
 leading questions are impermissible, there are recognised
 exceptions which include questions involving introduction or
 undisputed matter; identification; to bring out a Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 706 contradiction; helping the witnesses memory; during cross-
 examination of a hostile witness; and concerning a
 complicated matter. 1275. Let us examine the objection on behalf of the appellant to the
 questions in the present case which have been noticed above.
 So far as the question no.(i) noted above with regard to the
 number of persons in the car is concerned, it does not
 suggest the answer. The question is also not answered by a
 mere ‗yes' or a ‗no'. The foundation of this question has
 already been laid down in the testimony of the witness when
 he stated that Vikas Yadav, present in court, whom he knew
 from before driving Tata Safari told him in a very
 uncivilized manner to remove his scooter from the road. The
 question in the category of ‗identification'. 1276. In his testimony as PW-14 in Sukhdev's trial, Ajay Kumar
 had stated that the Tata Safari vehicle was being driven by
 Vikas Yadav. He identified the other passengers in the
 vehicle as the other accused persons Vishal Yadav and
 Sukhdev Pehalwan, and gave the description of the fourth
 occupant of the vehicle

1277. So far as question no.(ii) is concerned, Mr. Sumeet Verma,
 learned counsel for the appellant Vikas Yadav has
 vehemently urged that if it were not for this leading question,
 there was no evidence at all of the width of the Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 707 road/location/space for a vehicle to overtake the scooter. We
 have discussed above that the width of the road or the
 availability of road space for a vehicle to overtake the
 scooter is not relevant given the manner in which the events
 unfolded at the spot. For the view taken by us, nothing
 would turn on question at S. No.(ii) above or the answer to
 it. 1278. Before us, no real objection has been laid to the aforenoticed
 questions at serial no. (iii), (v), (vi). In any case, it would
 appear that question no. (iii), (v), (vi) are also questions of
 introduction and are strictly not leading questions. The
 witness had referred to the existence of a pole while
 explaning the place where his scooter had broken down
 suggesting existence of a light source at the spot. The
 question at serial no.(iv) was really in the nature of
 identification of the vehicle. 1279. The questions reproduced above are in the nature of
 questions of introduction or identification or questions which
 are helping the memory of the witness which are some of the
 recognised exceptions to the rule that leading questions are
 impermissible in the examination-in-chief. 1280. In the present case, even if it were to be held that these
 questions were leading questions, the same would not ipso
 facto and by itself vitiate the trial. In this regard, Section Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 708 167 of the Evidence Act would have to be applied. This
 statutory provision reads as follows: It appears that he was wearing goggles in the court room
 while testifying. In his cross-examination, the witness had
 stated that the goggles were not powered, but were normal
 glasses and that he used to wear them regularly except in the
 night. Sh.K.N. Balgopal who was appearing on behalf of
 Vikas Yadav submitted that he had seen the right eye of the
 witness and that there was white lining in his right eye, a
 genital defect and that he wanted to question Ajay Kumar
 about this. The trial court had rejected the request to put any
 question on this aspect to the witness and had directed the
 witness not to answer any question on the observation of
 defect in his eye by defence counsel. 1289. It has been urged before us that the refusal by the learned
 trial court to permit the appellants to question the witness Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 712 about the condition of his eyes has caused material prejudice
 to the appellants who have been deprived of an opportunity
 to challenge the ability of the PW-33 Ajay Kumar with
 regard to his eye sight and thereby his material testimony. 1290. Unfortunately the appellants did not place before this court
 the complete facts on this aspect. The above direction by the
 trial court on 31st May, 2003 was separately challenged
 before this court by way of Crl.Misc. (M) 3664/2003 and
 366/2003 by Vikas Yadav and Vishal Yadav which were
 decided by a judgment dated 9th September, 2003 reported at
 2003 (108) DLT 357 : (2004) 1 JCC 43 Vikas Yadav v.
 State of Uttar Pradesh. Our attention is drawn to the
 following observations made by the court in paras 13 and
 14:- Despite the observations of this court in the judgment dated
 9th September, 2003, none of the appellants filed any
 application under Section 311 of the Cr.P.C. for recalling
 Ajay Katara in the witness box at any point of time. Instead
 they proceeded with the remaining trial of the case. Mr.
 Dayan Krishnan, learned Additional Standing Counsel for
 the state has pointed out that several applications were filed
 by the appellants under Section 311 of the Cr.P.C. to Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 714 examine witnesses but no request was ever made to re-
 examine Ajay Kumar so as to question him on his eye sight. 1292. It is submitted that Vikas and Vishal Yadav sought to
 examine two witnesses namely Deepak Aggarwal and Dr.
 Manish Garg in defence to prove the deficiency in the eye
 sight of Ajay Kumar and that he was unable to see clearly in
 one eye. For this purpose, an application was filed for their
 dasti summons. This application was rejected by an order
 passed on 10th August, 2007 which reads as follows : At this stage, Sh.BS Joon, Spl PP for State. Sh.
 Kaushik Dey, counsel for the complainant,
 Accused Vishal Yadav on bail with Sh. S.K.
 Saxena, adv., Accused Vikas Yadav in custody
 with Sh.GK Bharti, adv. have appeared. Adv. Mr. Bharti has submitted that both these
 wistnesses are relevant since through their
 testimony it is to be proved that PW Ajay
 Katara is a false witness. It is submitted that
 these doctors would also prove that Ajay Katara
 has an artificial eye of stone as he concealed
 this fact from the court. It is submitted that
 during his cross-examination the defence
 counsel wanted to question the witness
 regarding the fact that his right eye was having
 a general defect and there was white lining in
 his right eye but he was disallowed to put any
 such question. It is submitted that witness
 concealed this fact that he could not see from
 one eye. On the other hand the Spl.PP has
 submitted that the defence cannot be allowed to
 produce any such evidence since no such
 suggestion was given to the witness that he
 could not see from one eye or had an artificial
 eye. Further that Adv. Mr. Bharti was also
 sitting in the court and was advising Adv. Bajaj,
 counsel for accused Sukhdev Yadav when PW
 Ajay Katara was examined and cross-examined
 against accused Sukhdev but even at that time
 no such suggestion was given to the witness.
 After hearing the submission of both the parties
 and going through the material on record, I find
 that the defence was not allowed to put any
 question to PW 33 Ajay Katara with regard to
 any defect in his right eye and as such no
 evidence has come on record that PW 33 had an
 aritifical eye as claimed by the defence. At the
 same time witness Ajay Katara during his
 testimony has no where claimed that he could
 see with both eyes or could not see with both
 eyes, as such no medical evidence can be
 allowed to be produced by the defence to that
 effect, particularly when PW Ajay Katara would Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 716 not be available to rebut the same. As such both
 the doctors referred above are allowed to be
 summoned in defence only with regard to the
 fact that PW Ajay Katara is an interested
 witness and no such evidence shall be allowed
 through these witnesses that PW Ajay Katara
 has an artificial eye. Moreover it is of no
 consequence even if PW Ajay Katara has one
 artificial eye as it is not the case of the
 prosecution that the accused is totally blind
 and cannot see the happenings around. The defence counsel has submitted that today
 there are no defence witnesses to be examined
 today. He has further submitted that by the
 order of the Hon'ble High Court the defence has
 been given time till 20/9/07 to conclude the
 defence evidence and two witnesses which were
 dropped by this court namely Sandeep Mishra
 and Rambir Singh Bharodia as per the direction
 of Hon'ble High Court are to be examined on
 20/8/07. Now to come up for recording the
 statement of these witnesses on 20/8/07 at 11
 am. The defence is directed to produce DW
 Dayashankar and Jai Singh, adv. on 29/8/07 at
 11 am. Regarding the press clippings the defence
 counsel has submitted that these would be filed
 on 20/8/07.‖

1293. The appellants accepted the correctness of the order dated
 10th August, 2007 and did not challenge it any further. 1294. An application under Section 311 of the Cr.P.C. was filed on
 12th May, 2008. Another application was filed on 26th May, Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 717 2008 regarding an alleged sting operation also under Section
 311 of the Cr.P.C. 1295. The application of Vikas Yadav under Section 311 of the
 Cr.P.C. moved on 12th May, 2008 was disposed of as
 infructuous at the instance of Shri G.K. Bharti, Advocate
 who did not press this application in view of the admission
 of the sting operation by Ajay Katara. Thereafter Vishal
 Yadav moved the second application under Section 311 Cr.P.C. for summoning Subhash Yadav, Mr. Sharma, Ajay
 Katara, his security guards; Tanu Choudhary and her parents
 which was disposed of by an order passed on 27 th May,
 2008. 1296. However no application was filed by the appellants seeking
 the recall of Ajay Katara. In no application, the appellants
 made a prayer for recall of the witness with regard to
 questions which were earlier disallowed about the condition
 of the eyes of the witness. It is evident that the appellants
 had abandoned challenge to the eye sight of the witness. 1297. In the Sukhdev Yadav trial, while being cross-examined,
 Anil Kumar had denied the suggestion that on 31 st May,
 2003 while his statement was being recorded (in the Vikas
 Yadav trial), he was wearing dark glasses and not spectacles.
 The witness further stated that the glasses which he was
 wearing at the time of deposition were plain glasses without Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 718 any number. The witness also explained that since he had
 hurt his right eye during childhood, he had to wear those
 glasses and that he had weak eye sight on the one eye. 1298. The above narration from the record of the two cases shows
 that the appellants do not allege that Ajay Kumar was
 visually impaired and unable to see. They allege deficiency
 in the vision in one eye only and nothing more. Challenge to
 the witness' testimony in cross examination is not based on
 his vision. 1299. In view of the above discussion, there is substance in the
 submission of the State that the appellants had made a
 conscious choice and abandoned all objections to the denial
 by the trial court of the opportunity to cross examine Ajay
 Kumar with regard to his eye sight. No objection on such
 ground can be legally pressed at this stage. (I) Ajay Katara was not asked to identify Tata Safari vehicle at
 the police station - effect thereof

1300. An objection stands pressed before us that Ajay Kumar
 Katara was not asked to identify the Tata Safari vehicle at
 the police station. This objection raised on behalf of the
 appellants is being noticed only for the sake of rejection. 1301. During recording of the examination-in-chief of the witness
 Ajay Kumar in the trial of Vikas and Vishal Yadav, the
 learned Special Public Prosecutor had asked the witness if Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 719 he could identify the recovered vehicle if shown to him and
 requested the court for showing the vehicle to the witness.
 This was objected to. The extract of trial court proceedings
 dated 31st May, 2003 in this regard reads as follows:- 1303. It is not disputed that Ajay Kumar was also not a witness for
 the recovery of the Tata Safari. No question at all was put to
 the Investigating Officer Anil Somania in this regard who
 proved the recovery on the pointing out of the accused. In
 the circumstances, failure to get the vehicle identified cannot
 impact the prosecution case. The trial courts have accepted
 the testimony of Ajay Kumar on this aspect. The evidence Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 720 led by the prosecution would therefore be comprehensively
 examined. 1304. Ajay Kumar's testimony about the identity of the persons in
 the Tata Safari on the fateful night has to be examined in the
 context of the disclosure statements of Vikas and Vishal
 Yadav both of whom had named the Pehalwan as their
 accomplice in the commission of the offence. Bharti Yadav
 in her statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C. (Exh.PW-35/AB)
 recorded on 2nd March, 2002 also stated that Sukhdev
 Pehalwan, an employee in their liquor business was her
 brothers, (Vikas and Vishal Yadav's) companion in the
 crime in the instant case. 1305. The testimony of Ajay Kumar establishes beyond any doubt
 that Vikas Yadav, Vishal Yadav, Sukhdev @ Pehalwan and
 the deceased Nitish Katara were actually travelling in the
 same Tata Safari vehicle at around 12:20/12:30 am
 (0020/0030 hours) on the road from the Diamond Palace
 Banquet Hall. The vehicle was being driven by Vikas
 Yadav. Nitish Katara was seated in the front passenger seat,
 next to Vikas Yadav. Vishal Yadav sat behind the driver in
 the rear of the vehicle while Sukhdev @ Pehalwan sat
 behind Nitish Katara. (J) Failure of the prosecution to verify the address of Subhash
 Chand
1306. In the efforts to establish that Ajay Kumar had made a false
 statement that he visited one Subhash Chand in the PAC
 barracks on the night of 16th of February, 2002 . Vikas and
 Vishal Yadav examined as DW-23, one Inspector Satyavir
 Singh. DW-23 had testified that he was residing in the
 residential complex of the 47th Battalion, Ghaziabad for the
 last about 14 years; that the 47th Battalion was equipped with
 sophisticated weapons to fight terrorism and fundamentalists
 which are stored in the armoury magazine. The residential
 complex was surrounded by a wall which an entry and exit
 point at which points police is posted for all 24 hours. A
 register is maintained to monitor the entry and exit of all
 outsiders to and fro residing in the complex. Particulars of
 date, names, particulars of the person whom they want to
 visit, time and purpose of the visit and whether the person
 was visiting the complex was on a vehicle was maintained in
 the register. The number of the vehicle is also entered in the
 register. 1307. The witness was not asked by the appellants if Subhash
 Chand was residing in this particular complex or if he could
 give information about the visitors to it on 16 th February,
 2002! This witness was unable to give the area of the
 complex of the 47th Battalion. DW-23 does not make any Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 722 disclosure with regard to persons who visited the complex on
 16th February, 2002 when Ajay Kumar claimed to have
 visited Subhash Chand. He does not produce any record of
 the register allegedly maintained at the entry point or record
 of gate passes which would have been issued to a visitor as
 claimed by him. In this background, the oral testimony of
 this witness unsupported by documents which he claims
 existed, does not controvert Ajay Kumar's testimony that he
 had gone to Ghaziabad to to visit Subhash Chand. 1308. The testimony of DW-23 also shows that there is a third gate
 as gate no.3. He testifies that there are about 1000
 residential quarters in the complex and that he was not
 assigned guard duty at the gates. Even if the testimony of
 DW-23 was accepted as a whole, there is nothing in the
 statement with regard to persons who have visited the
 complex on 16th February, 2002. 1309. The accused in both the trials did not dispute the identity of
 Subhash Chand, his occupation or friendship with the
 witness. Anil Kumar Katara was cross-examined on behalf
 of Vishal Yadav when he denied that Subhash Chand was in
 ‗PAS'. The witness stated that he was in the UP police and
 that he lived in police quarters and that the quarters of
 Subhash Chand was situated in the campus of Prantiya
 Suraksha Bal which had four gates. Anil Kumar had denied Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 723 being stopped at the gate at entry or that a register was
 maintained there. 1310. In the trial of Sukhdev, Ajay Kumar Katara stated that
 Subhash Chand was a Hawaldar who was residing in the
 PAC compound, Ghaziabad which had 1500 quarters and
 that he was residing on the ground floor corner house. The
 witness denied knowledge about any register being
 maintained by the security guard and stated that he was
 never stopped while entering the blocks and had never been
 asked to make any entry. The witness statd that he used to
 enter the PAC compound from the side of G Block. 1311. Looked at from any angle, Anil Kumar Katara has remained
 steadfast about his visit to Subhash Chand in Ghaziabad on
 the night of 16th of February, 2002 in his testimony in both
 trials. This testimony could not be challenged by the
 defence. The evidence of DW-23 Inspector Satyavir Singh
 also does not dent the evidence of Ajay Katara at the Hapur
 Chungi on the fateful night at the stated time. Further
 evidence on this aspect would be a surplusage. Requiring
 the prosecution to further verify the address of Subhash
 Chand is unnecessary. The failure of the prosecution to do
 so is of no legal consequence therefore. 1312. So far as Ajay Kumar is concerned, it is perfectly normal for
 a person to visit a fellow villager and friend. No doubt can Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 724 be attached to the presence of the person at the spot for this
 reason. There is no suggestion at all on behalf of any of the
 appellants that the witness was nurturing any ill will or had
 any malafide or enemity against the appellants. There is
 nothing unnatural about the scooter of the witness breaking
 down as well. The learned trial judge has accepted his
 testimony. We see no reason to doubt the same. IX Pinpointing the time of death and its proximity to the
 timing of the deceased being last seen alive with the
 accused
1313. In order to establish the time of death, the prosecution
 examined Dr. Anil Singhal as PW-3 who had conducted the
 post-mortem (Exh.PW-3/3). This report has referred to a
 post-mortem conducted on an unidentified body on 18 th
 February, 2002 at about 3.00 p.m. According to this report,
 the proximate time of the death was around two days prior to
 the conduct of the post-mortem. It is pointed that as per
 Exh.PW-3/3 if computed backwards from the time of
 conduct of the post-mortem, the death of Nitish Katara
 would have occurred at around 3.00 p.m. of the 16 th of
 February 2002. Mr. R.K. Kapoor, ld. counsel for Sukhdev
 @ Pehalwan has relied heavily on this observation of the
 doctor to displace the prosecution case. 1314. Mr. U.R. Lalit, learned senior counsel has also drawn our
 attention to the evidence of PW-3 Dr. Anil Singhal to the Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 725 effect that the stomach of the deceased was empty at the time
 of conducting the post mortem/autopsy; that it was possible
 that the body on which he had conducted the post mortem
 might not have taken food for 24 hours or more but he could
 not say exactly how much. The appellants have heavily
 relied on the medical evidence that the stomach of the
 deceased was empty as a factor which points towards the
 time of death. It is submitted that for this reason as well it is
 not possible to pin point the time of death and therefore, the
 last seen together evidence of the prosecution must fail the
 test of proximity. 1315. So far as emptying of the stomach or presence of semi- digested food in the stomach is considered, it is well settled
 that digestion of food rests on too many variables to be a
 reliable basis to determine the time of death. (Ref: (1993)
 Supp (3) SCC 678 (para 6) Sardul Singh and Ors. v. State
 of Punjab and (2004) 10 SCC 598 Ram Bali v. State of U.P)

1316. In (1993) Supp (3) SCC 678 (para 6) Sardul Singh and Ors. v. State of Punjab, the Supreme Court observed as follows :- The body was badly burnt and that it was the winter season
 which is also a factor which would impact putrefication the
 estimation of death, another important factor considered by Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 730 forensic experts to suggest possible timing by death of a
 person. 1322. PW-3 Dr. Anil Singhal had stated that in the instant case,
 putrefaction of the body had not started completely. The
 witness stated that putrefaction normally starts 1½ days after
 the death. As per the autopsy report, (Exh.PW-3/3) and the
 testimony of PW-3, he conducted the autopsy from 3 p.m. on
 18th February, 2002. This would bring the time of death to
 the intervening night of 16/17th February, 2002. It needs no
 elaboration that the period mentioned by the doctor has to be
 construed as a range of timing. 1323. To support the submission that Dr. Anil Singhal had
 estimated the time of death as the intervening night of
 16/17th February, 2002, Mr. Krishnan, learned Additional
 Standing Counsel has placed the relevant extract from
 Taylor‟s Principles and Practice of Medical Jurisprudence
 (12th Edn.) as well as Modi‟s Medical Jurisprudence and
 Toxicology (23rd Edn.) Reliance has been placed on the
 Chapter on putrefaction or decomposition and autolysis and
 the observations of the learned author on clear changes in the
 body; onset of rigor mortis and the green discoloration of the
 body. 1324. Learned Additional Standing Counsel for the state has also
 placed reliance on the authoritative text of J.B. Mukherjee Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 731 on Forensic Medicine and Toxicology which lays down
 basic guiding principles for estimation of the time of death in
 a simplified manner and reads as follows: 1326. There is evidence that the deceased was seen alive after
 midnight at the Hapur Chungi. The call records (Exh.PW-
 21/1) of the phone of the deceased also establish that he was
 alive at this time. The observation by the doctor that the
 time of death was two days before conducting the post
 mortem is therefore without any basis and is hereby rejected. 1327. We now propose to examine if it is possible to ascertain the
 time of death from other evidence on record. 1328. PW 25 Bharat Diwakar and PW 30 Nilam Katara have
 spoken about their unsuccessful efforts to reach Nitish at his
 mobile phone in the very early hours of the 17 th of February
 2002. 1329. The prosecution has established that Nitish Katara and
 Bharat Diwakar left 7 Chelmsford Road, New Delhi left
 together on the 16th of Feburary, 2012. It is in evidence that
 Bharat Diwakar left the wedding venue alone between 02:00
 a.m. - 02:15 a.m. on the 17th of February, 2002 and that he
 reached 7 Chelmsford Road at around 03:00 a.m. on 17th of
 February 2002 without Nitish Katara. The driver Shri Shadi
 Ram (PW 24) of the vehicle in which he returned proves this
 fact. 1330. As PW 25 Bharat Diwakar did not give any satisfactory
 answer about Nitish Katara to PW 30 Nilam Katara when he
 returned alone from the wedding, Nilam Katara tried to Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 735 contact Nitish on his cell phone (which would be after 3:00
 am.) but was unable to make contact. 1331. We may note that PW 38 Bharti Yadav was confronted with
 the statement (Mark PW35/AB) attributed to her under Section 161 Cr.P.C. which was recorded by the Investigating
 Officer Anil Somania on 2nd March, 2002. She denied the
 portion marked ‗W to W' of this statement where it was
 recorded that at about 0:00-2:00 a.m. when Bharti came to
 know that her brothers Vikas Yadav and Vishal Yadav along
 with Sukhdev Pehlwan had taken away Nitish Katara, she
 tried to contact Nitish Katara on his mobile phone but there
 was no response which increased her tension and thereafter
 she called on the residence number. This part of
 Exh.PW35/AB is corroborated by the documentary evidence
 as these calls by Bharti are duly reflected in the call records
 (Exh.PW 22/2) of her cell phone no.9810038469. 1332. Nitish Katara's call records (Exh.PW21/1) establish that he
 had received two calls from Bharti's cell (9811034829), one
 at 00:35:40 hours (00:35 a.m.) lasting 00:20 seconds and a
 second call at 00:40:44 ; lasting 00:21 seconds

1333. As per Ex PW 22/2, phone calls have been made from
 Bharti's cell phone to Bharat Diwakar's cell phone at 6:41
 a.m., 6:55 a.m., 7:15 a.m., 8:08 a.m., 8:18 a.m. and 8:43 a.m.
 of the 17th of February 2002. 1334. At around 05:30 a.m., PW 30 Nilam Katara woke up PW 25
 Bharat Diwakar and told him that Nitish had still not
 reached home and that his cell phone was also switched off. 1335. It is in the evidence of PW 23 Virender Singh resident of
 village Kalakure that at about 09:00 a.m. / 09:15 a.m. of 17 th
 of February, 2002 he was going to Khurja in his jeep from
 his village and when he was about one kilometer before
 Khurja he saw one naked dead body lying on the right side
 of the road in a burnt condition and that the small crowd had
 gathered at the side of the road. From his cell phone, he
 made a call to the PS Kotwali giving information about the
 presence of the dead body and went on to Khurja. This dead
 body was subsequently identified as that of Nitish Katara. 1336. As per the call records, the last call received on Nitish
 Katara's cell no.9811283641 was at 1:11:58 am from mobile
 no.9810154964 (by PW-26 Gaurav Gupta) showing the
 tower location of Raj Nagar, Ghaziabad. No call was made
 or received on it thereafter. 1337. Mr. Dayan Krishnan, learned Additional Standing Counsel
 for the state has argued that the prosecution has discharged
 its burden of proving the proximity of the last seen evidence
 to the time of death. Reference is made to the
 pronouncement of the Supreme Court in (2007) 3 SCC 755
 (para 31-34) State of Goa v. Sanjay Thakran and Anr. Para 34 of the pronouncement deserves to be extracted in
 extenso and read as follows :- 1340. The above narration clearly shows that it was impossible to
 even get through to Nitish Katara after this last call on his
 cell phone at 01:11:18 hours on 17th of February, 2002.
 Bharti could not reach him around that time or at 02:00 a.m.
 His mother unsuccessfully tried to contact him after 3:00 am.
 All these established facts and circumstances point towards
 the fact that he had been murdered after 01:11:18 hrs.
 Nitish's body was discovered not very long therafter in a
 ‗khai' on an uninhabited piece of land which had only fields
 in the vicinity. 1341. Thus the prosecution has discharged its burden so far as the
 proximity between the time at which the deceased and
 accused were last seen alive together evidence and the time
 of death in the present case is concerned. 1342. Let us examine the objection premised on the proximity of
 the place test. The deceased was last seen alive in the
 company of the accused persons in the middle of the night of
 16/17th February, 2002 in a Tata Safari vehicle driven by
 Vikas Yadav with the other two appellants on the rear seat.
 It has been proved that the Tata Safari vehicle belonged to Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 740 the company in which one of the directors was the father of
 Vikas Yadav, who was uncle of Vishal Yadav and employer
 of Sukhdev @ Pehalwan. The evidence on record
 establishes that the accused persons and the deceased were
 travelling in the vehicle. The conduct of Vikas Yadav
 reflects his resentment at being compelled to stop by Ajay
 Katara's scooter and the anxiety to move on. We have
 discussed above the call records which point towards Nitish
 not being permitted to receive calls. He has not been able to
 make any call from his phone. Undoubtedly, the appellants
 were not only in exclusive possession and control of the
 vehicle but also had Nitish their custody and under their
 absolute control. The possibility of intrusion or intervention
 by any third party is, therefore, ruled out. Information about
 the body was received by the Khurja police at 9.00/9.15 am
 from PW-23 Shri Virender Singh. Therefore the circumstance of last seen together in the
 present case is a relevant fact which has to be taken into
 consideration for assessing the culpability of the appellants. X Challenge to the identity of the recovered dead body by
 Sukhdev @ Pehalwan in Criminal Appeal No.145/2012
1343. It is submitted by Mr.Ravinder Kumar Kapoor, Advocate on
 behalf of the appellant-Sukhdev @ Pehalwan that the
 original documents relied upon by the prosecution in Sukhdev Yadav 's case were on the record of the trial against Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 741 Vikas Yadav and Vishal Yadav. Mr. Kapoor submits that as
 per these documents vis-à-vis the testimony of Nilam Katara,
 the body which was recovered by the police on 17 th
 February, 2002, was not that of Nitish Katara. Learned
 counsel would contend that the record of the trial appears to
 suggest reference to four different human corpses. It is
 contended that the dead body which was recovered on the
 17th of February, 2002 was not of Nitish Katara. 1344. Mr.Kapoor contends that in the statement of PW-10 Nilam
 Katara, she had stated that she had identified the body as that
 of Nitish Katara from his face, left foot and left hand and
 made a statement that his right leg was missing. 1345. Our attention has been drawn to the report dated 21 st
 January, 2003 (Exh.C-1) of the Central Forensic Science
 Laboratory. It is urged that the police had sent a parcel
 containing sealed samples of different parts of the dead body
 as well as blood samples of Nilam Katara and Mr. N.M.
 Katara for DNA examination to be conducted thereon.
 Exh.C-1 shows that as Exh.D, the police had sent a human
 femur bone of the right side of the body. It is, therefore,
 contended by Mr. Kapoor that the samples sent for the DNA
 profiling to the Central Forensic Science Laboratory,
 Calcutta were not that of the body which was recovered by
 the police and identified by Nilam Katara as that of Nitish
 Katara. 1346. We find that apart from the femur bone, the police had
 forwarded samples of various other parts of the body
 including blood stains, tissue samples etc. on which DNA
 profiling was undertaken by the laboratory and it was opined
 that the allele of the samples matched those of N.M. Katara
 as well as that of Nilam Katara. The body was not subjected
 to chemical analysis to ascertain whether any combustible
 material was utilized to burn the dead body. 1347. The photograph (Ex. PW 4/2) of the body recovered by the
 police on 17th February, 2002 shows that the body had both
 the lower limbs. 1348. Mr. Kapoor, learned counsel has pointed out that the post- mortem report (Exh.PW 3/3) does not mention that any leg
 was missing. Learned counsel has also placed reliance on
 the sketch of the body which forms part of inquest report
 Exh.PW 3/2. It is urged that the officer who conducted the
 inquest has carefully shaded the burnt area of the body and
 has shown burns on both legs. 1349. We find that as per the panchnama of the dead body
 (Exh.PW-3/2A) proved by Inspector C.P. Singh, under the
 heading ‗condition of the dead body', it is noted that the
 right leg was bent from the knees while the left leg was
 almost straight. This may be the reason for the confusion
 about the status of the leg. 1350. Nilam Katara had appeared as PW 30 in the trial of Vikas
 Yadav and Vishal Yadav and her statement was first
 recorded on 30th April, 2003 when she had testified that body
 recovered by the police on the 17th was that of her son,
 Nitish Katara. In the trial of Sukhdev Yadav, the evidence
 of Nilam Katara as PW 10 was recorded on 27th November,
 2006 i.e. after a period of more than four years. Passage of
 time could be another cause for the discrepancy. Given the
 clear testimony of this witness, this could be the result of a
 recording error as well. Nothing would thus turn on the
 isolated sentence in Nilam Katara's statement. 1351. Learned counsel has urged that the inquest report shows
 injury on the stomach and the left leg. It pertinently makes
 no mention of a head injury. The post-mortem report,
 however, referred to a skull fracture and a lacerated wound 3
 centimeter by 2 centimeters on left side of the head and
 about 7 centimeter above the left eyebrow which had a deep
 cavity. The submission is that no such wound has been
 noted by the police officer on the inquest form and,
 therefore, the body which was produced for the post-mortem
 was not the same body on which the inquest form was
 recorded. The inquest report notes that the face and head
 were in a burnt condition. 1352. The police official who filled the inquest was not a medical
 expert. The inquest report also makes no mention of any leg Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 744 missing from the corpse. We have discussed at length the
 limited reliance that may be placed on the inquest report.
 Furthermore, no challenge was laid on the omission to notice
 the head injury nor an explanation sought from any witness.
 The post-mortem notes the head injury as an ante-mortem
 injury. The suggestion on behalf of the appellant Sukhdev
 that the injury was caused after recovery of the dead body is
 clearly untenable. 1353. We also find that Sukhdev laid no challenge during trial that
 the post-mortem was not conducted on the body recovered
 by the police. 1354. Mr.Kapoor, learned counsel has contended that the evidence
 in the instant case was being manipulated to bring home a
 finding of guilt of the appellant. He refers to the
 endorsement by the ―report proficient‖ on 18th February,
 2002 which forms part of the inquest proceedings to the
 effect that skin of the fingers was burnt for which reason, it
 was not possible to take the finger prints of the body.
 Learned counsel has contended that as against this clear
 statement, the police has introduced one Shri Chet Ram, a
 finger print expert. 1355. We find that PW-16 Shri Chet Ram was summoned in the
 Sukhdev Yadav trial whence he stated that he adopted his
 previous statement given in Vikas Yadav case. This witness Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 745 was examined as PW 2 in the earlier trial. Sukhdev Yadav
 was granted an opportunity to cross-examine the witness.
 However, he refused to cross-examine the witness and a
 statement was made that the cross-examination of the other
 accused persons was adopted by him as well. 1356. This submission does not need to detain this court inasmuch
 as the trial court has rejected the evidence of PW 16 Chet
 Ram. It was noted that the prosecution had failed to prove
 that Nitish Katara was the holder of a driving licence and
 therefore the statement of Shri Chet Ram to the effect that he
 had identified the finger prints as that of Nitish Katara based
 on alleged comparison with finger prints at the Regional
 Transport Office, was unworthy of credence. This
 submission of learned counsel for the appellant Sukhdev
 therefore has to be noted only to be rejected. 1357. Mr.Ravinder Kumar Kapoor, learned counsel for the
 appellant Sukhdev has urged that the fixation of the age of
 the person whose dead body was found by the police by Dr.
 Anil Singhal would also show that it was not that of Nitish
 Katara. In this regard, it is pointed out that as per the college
 identity card (Exh.PW 13/5), Nitish Katara was born on 20 th
 April, 1978 and, therefore, as on 16/17th February, 2002, he
 would be slightly over 23 years of age. Learned counsel has
 pointed out that in the inquest report, the age of the person
 whose body was recovered, is mentioned as 30 years. The Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 746 post-mortem report also reflects the proximate age of the
 dead person as 30 years. 1358. Learned counsel has relied on the answer of Dr. Anil Singhal
 (examined as PW-18 in Sukhdev's trial) to the query on
 behalf of the defence to the effect as to whether the body
 could be 30 years of age as well as 40 years also? In answer
 to this question, the doctor had stated that it may be. The
 doctor had also stated that his determination showed that the
 body was not of a child nor of an old person; that it would,
 therefore, appear, that the person was over 16 years of age
 and less than 30 years of age. The doctor has clearly stated
 that he had written the age of the deceased as 30 years on the
 post-mortem report because it was so mentioned in the
 police documents. So far as his own assessment is
 concerned, the doctor had stated that the denture of the dead
 body was complete i.e. he had 16x16 teeth and, therefore,
 the proximate age should have been the same. 1359. The post mortem report (Ex. PW 3/3) reports that the age of
 the dead body is 30 years. In Sukhdev's trial, it is urged by
 counsel for the accused Mr Kapoor that since Nitish Katara
 was 23 years of age, the dead body was not that of Nitish
 Katara. The doctor has stated that he mentioned the age of
 the corpse as the police had so mentioned it. The doctor had
 placed reliance on the denture of the deceased as well. 1360. Mr. P.K. Dey on the other hand contends that the dead body
 had 16+ 16 teeth, which falls in the age group of 18-25
 years. He refers to Wheeler‟s Dental Anatomy, Physiology
 and Occlusion (Ninth Edition) by Stanley J. Nelson which
 states that the formation of the roots of the third molars are
 completed in the age category of 18 to 25 years, after the
 formation of the roots of all other teeth is complete. The
 relevant table is reproduced as follows: 1362. Medical science is not a definite science. Assessment of age
 is effected by radiological and denture examination as well Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 748 as by physical appearance. The age estimation given by the
 doctor in the instant case is premised solely on the status of
 his denture. No radiological examination was effected. The
 doctor had clearly stated that he had incorporated the age
 mentioned by the police as the age of the person on whose
 body he had conducted the post-mortem. The body having
 been burnt, no proximation of age at the time of the incident
 or thereafter could have meaningfully effected. Even
 otherwise, we find that on medical examination, the doctors
 can only prescribe the possible range of age and never opine
 a definite age stipulation as in the instant case. Therefore,
 the mentioning by the doctor of a definite age of the person
 by the doctor on the post-mortem form is of no consequence
 as it is based on a statement on the inquest request which
 itself has no factual basis. The identity of the body cannot
 be doubted on such opinion of its age by the doctor. 1363. The mother of the deceased has categorically identified the
 recovered body as that of her son Nitish Katara. 1364. It is important to note that during trial, no challenge at all has
 been laid by or on behalf of Sukhdev @ Pehalwan to the
 statement made by either Nilam Katara, the investigating
 officer, the doctors or to the DNA report to the effect that the
 body which was recovered by the police was not that of
 Nitish Katara and that more than one corpse was used at the
 different stages of the investigation. No question was put to Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 749 any of the witnesses including the police officers or the
 doctors who could have clarified the position. 1365. We also find that there is no challenge or dispute at any
 stage and in any manner that the tissue samples sent to the
 All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) were not of
 the body which had been recovered by the police. Learned
 counsel contests only the identity of the corpse which was
 recovered by the police on the 18th February, 2002. 1366. The unchallenged testimony of the witnesses and the
 documentary evidence supporting it leave no room to doubt
 that the body recovered by the police on 18 th February, 2002
 was of Nitish Katara. This fact is admitted by Vikas and
 Vishal Yadav. 1367. Furthermore, the learned Trial Judge in the trial of Sukhdev
 Yadav @ Pehalwan, in the impugned judgment dated 6th
 July, 2011, clearly records that there was no challenge to the
 identity of the dead body as the issue was not raised by the
 defence counsel and the identity stood established by the
 prosecution witnesses. It has been righlty held that the
 identity of the deceased was ascertained and confirmed
 through DNA and fingerprint testing. For all these reasons
 there is no merit in the challenge before this court on behalf
 of Sukhdev Yadav to the identity of the dead body. XI Reversal of burden of proof

1368. It is contended before us by Mr. Krishnan, ld. Standing
 Counsel that the prosecution has proved beyond reasonable
 doubt that the deceased died shortly after he was last seen
 alive in the company of the accused. Placing reliance on Section 106 of the Evidence Act, Mr. Dayan Krishnan urges
 that therefore the burden to show what happened to the
 deceased while he was in their custody shifts to the accused
 persons. It is urged that upon failure of the accused persons
 to do so, by virtue of Section 114 of the Indian Evidence
 Act, the court would infer the existence of certain facts. 1369. By virtue of Section 101 of the Evidence Act, every person
 alleging a fact has to prove it asserting existence of facts,
 cannot prove those facts exists if he desires any court to give
 judgment as to any legal right or liability depending on such
 facts. 1370. Section 106 is an exception to the above requirement as it
 imposes a burden of proving a fact which is within the
 knowledge of such person irrespective of the onus to do so. 1371. In support of this submission, reliance has been placed on
 the pronouncement of the Supreme Court reported at ( 2000)
 8 SCC 382 State of W.B. v. Mir Mohammad Omar and Ors.
 In this case, a 29 year old young businessman of Kolkata
 was abducted and killed by the accused persons who chased Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 751 the deceased to several places before forcibly dragging him
 away. Thereafter, the deceased was not seen alive by his
 kith or kin. 1372. The Supreme Court had concluded that there was abundant
 evidence to show that the deceased was abducted by the
 accused on the night in question for the purpose of
 murdering him. The circumstance of the abduction by the
 accused; their having taken the deceased out of the sight of
 the witnesses; recovery of the murdered body of the
 deceased a few hours later without his shirt; recovery of the
 shirt which the deceased was wearing at the time of
 abduction concealed by the respondents, were established in
 the evidence led by the prosecution. 1373. The abductors had not given any explanation as to what
 happened to the deceased after he was abducted by them.
 The Session Judge had acquitted the accused persons of
 murder holding that there was a missing link in the chain of
 events after the deceased was last seen together with the
 accused persons and discovery of the dead body. The
 Supreme Court considered this very evidence in ( Mir Mohd.
 Omar (supra) as well as the finding by the learned Sessions
 Judge and held as follows:- When inferring the existence of a fact from
 other set of proved facts, the court exercises a
 process of reasoning and reaches a logical
 conclusion as the most probable position. The
 above principle has gained legislative
 recognition in India when Section 114 is
 incorporated in the Evidence Act . It empowers
 the court to presume the existence of any fact
 which it thinks likely to have happened. In that
 process the court shall have regard to the
 common course of natural events, human
 conduct etc. in relation to the facts of the case. 34. When it is proved to the satisfaction of the
 Court that Mahesh was abducted by the accused
 and they took him out of that area, the accused
 alone knew what happened to him until he was
 with them. If he was found murdered within a
 short time after the abduction the permitted
 reasoning process would enable the Court to
 draw the presumption that the accused have
 murdered him. Such inference can be disrupted
 if the accused would tell the Court what else
 happened to Mahesh at least until he was in
 their custody. 35. During arguments we put a question to
 learned senior counsel for the respondents based
 on a hypothetical illustration. If a boy is
 kidnapped from the lawful custody of his
 guardian in the sight of his people and the
 kidnappers disappeared with the prey, what
 would be the normal inference if the mangled
 dead body of the boy is recovered within a
 couple of hours from elsewhere. The query was
 made whether upon proof of the above facts an
 inference could be drawn that the kidnappers
 would have killed the boy. Learned senior
 counsel finally conceded that in such a case the
 inference is reasonably certain that the boy was
 killed by the kidnappers unless they explain
 otherwise. 36. In this context we may profitably utilise
 the legal principle embodied in Section 106 of
 the Evidence Act which reads as follows: 37. The section is not intended to relieve the
 prosecution of its burden to prove the guilt of
 the accused beyond reasonable doubt. But the Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 754 Section would apply to cases where the
 prosecution has succeeded in proving facts from
 which a reasonable inference can be drawn
 regarding the existence of certain other facts,
 unless the accused by virtue of his special
 knowledge regarding such facts, failed to offer
 any explanation which might drive the court to
 draw a different inference. 38. Vivian Bose, J., had observed that Section 106 of the Evidence Act is designed to
 meet certain exceptional cases in which it would
 be impossible for the prosecution to establish
 certain facts which are particularly within the
 knowledge of the accused. In Shambu Nath
 Mehra v. The State of Ajmer , AIR 1956 SC 404 : Lattora as well as ( 2001) 4 SCC 375 (para 20) Sucha Singh
 v. State of Punjab . 1376. In 2001 (4) SCC 375, Sucha Singh v. State Punjab, two
 persons were taken away by armed assailants from their Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 758 house at night and their dead bodies, studded with gunshot
 injuries, were found next morning lying near their house.
 When the abductors withheld the information which was
 within their knowledge, it was held that a presumption in the
 circumstances of the case can be drawn that the abductors
 were responsible for murder of the deceased on application
 of Section 106 and 114 of the Evidence Act. 1377. Para 17 of the pronouncement in Sucha Singh (supra) notes
 the submission by Mr. U.R. Lalit, Senior Counsel pleading
 for reconsideration by the Supreme Court's prior decision in Mir Mohd Omar (supra) in the following terms:- It is urged that any third person could have intervened at the
 IMT. Learned counsel has also submitted that it was the
 prosecution case that Anil driver was with the deceased
 when the deceased was last seen alive by Kamal Kishore.
 The submission is that prosecution has miserably failed to
 establish the event of the deceased having been last seen
 alive in the company of the accused person which evidence
 stands disproved by Kamal Kishore. Learned counsel would
 submit that in this background, the principles laid down in Mir Mohd. Omar (supra) would not apply to the instant
 case. We have discussed in detail each of the circumstances
 pointed out by Mr. Sumeet Verma, learned counsel as well
 as their impact in detail in the foregoing paras. We have
 disbelieved the truth of the statement attributed to Kamal
 Kishore and doubted the making of the statement attributed
 to Nitish Katara in the phone call at 1:11:18 hourse. We
 have also considered the inadmissibility of the statement
 attributed to Kamal Kishore. It has also been noticed that Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 762 the evidence of the call records of Nitish Katara's cell phone,
 completely destroys the truth of the statement attributed to
 Kamal Kishore. 1380. Mr. Sumeet Verma, learned counsel has contended that in
 any case close proximity in the event of last seen together
 with the time and place of commission of the crime as in the
 instant case, there can be no onus upon the accused to show
 what happened to the deceased when he was in their custody.
 It is submitted that in this background failure to give any
 explanation in their examination under Section 313 Cr.P.C.
 could not be taken to be circumstance pointing towards their
 guilt. 1381. In support of this submission reliance was placed on the
 pronouncement of this court reported at 2012 2 JCC 1092
 Riaz Ali v. State. In this case, there was no credible
 evidence of the deceased having been last seen in the
 company of the accused persons. The court was therefore,
 not called upon to examine the issue of reversal of the
 burden of proof. Other circumstances also favoured the
 hypothesis of innocence of Riaz Ali. The present case is
 entirely different. 1382. We have found the evidence of last seen in the present case
 credible as well as proximate to the time of death. Other
 circumstances pointing towards the guilt of the appellants Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 763 have been separately discussed above. Riaz Ali (supra) have
 no application to the present case and the burden of proof
 clearly shifted to the appellants to explain what had
 happended to the deceased. 1383. We may note the observations of the Supreme Court in the
 pronocement reported at 2003 (8) SCC 93 Amit @ Ammu v.
 State of Maharashtra wherein the court held as follows:- His defence is of complete denial. In our view,
 the conviction for offence under Sections 302
 and 376 has been rightly recorded by the Court
 of Session and affirmed by the High Court.‖

 (Emphasis supplied)

1384. Mr. Sumeet Verma, learned counsel appearing for Vikas
 Yadav has vehemently urged that the judgment in Mir
 Mohd. Omar has been explained in the pronouncement
 reported at (2005) 11 SCC 133 (para 20 and 21) Murlidhar
 and Ors. v. State of Rajasthan. In this case, the prosecution
 led evidence of not only the deceased and the accused being
 last seen together but the prosecution also set up two eye
 witnesses. The court completely disbelieved the testimony
 of eye witnesses. In this factual background, it was held that
 the principles laid down in Mir Mohd. Omar (surpa) could
 not apply. In the present case there are no eye witnesses.
 The prosecution is relying completely on circumstantial
 evidence. Thus the pronouncement in Muralidhar (Supra)
 is of no avail to the appellants in the present case. 1385. Some light on the question of the drawing a presumption is
 thrown by judicial precedents on Sections 114 illustration (a) Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 765 and 106 of the Indian Evidence Act which enable an
 inference to be drawn that in a case involving theft and
 murder a person in possession of stolen articles is guilty of
 the said offences. In the judgment reported at (1995) 3 SCC
 574 Gulab Chand v. State of M.P., the court referred to
 several judicial precedents and held as follows:- 1389. It stands established in the evidence of the prosecution
 witness Ajay Kumar to the effect that he had seen the
 accused and the deceased person together in the Tata Safari
 around 12.30 a.m./1.00 am on 17th February, 2002. 1390. On 25th February, 2002, Vikas and Vishal Yadav made
 disclosure with regard to the place of commission of the
 crime; the spot where the body was burnt; the spot where the
 hammer used in the crime; as well as wrist watch and mobile
 phone of the deceased had been concealed. They disclosed
 that they had used a Tata Safari vehicle. Pursuant thereto, on
 the 28th February, 2002, they pointed out the spot where the
 crime was committed and where the body was burnt. After
 searching amongst separate clumps of bushes (‗pattel' of
 height of 2-3 feet), Vikas Yadav got recovered watch of the
 make Espirit. These recoveries were effected in the presence
 of their counsel Shri Satpal Singh Yadav, Advocate. No
 family member of Nitish Katara (including his mother Nilam
 Katara) was present in these proceedings. 1391. Pursuant to the disclosures on that very day (i.e., the 28 th of
 February, 2002) the brothers deliberately led the police to Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 773 three premises in Alwar, Rajasthan wherefrom the Tata
 Safari vehicles could be recovered. 1392. On the 11th of March 2002 Vikas and Vishal Yadav then led
 the police to different cities in three different states till the
 Tata Safari vehicle used for commission of the crime was
 recovered. The appellants absconded immediately after the
 occurrence. By application of the principles laid down in State of West Bengal v. Mir Mohd. Omar , the defence was
 required to explain as to what happened to the deceased
 while he was in their company. Section 106 of the Evidence
 Act would squarely be applicable and the accused would be
 required to discharge the burden of proving what had
 happened to the deceased after they were last seen together.
 There is no explanation at all from the accused persons in
 this regard. 1393. In the instant case, we have discussed at length the evidence
 brought on record and concluded that there is proximity of
 time between the deceased having been last seen alive in the
 company of the accused persons and the time of his death.
 The defence has not tendered any explanation as to what
 happened to the deceased while he was in their company.
 The only evidence led by the defence is that of total denial.
 The pleas of alibi set up have not been substantiated and
 have been completely disbelieved by us. 1394. Upon considering the evidence led by the prosecution and
 the proven circumstances on record, applying the principles laid down by the Supreme Court in State of West Bengal v.
 Mir Mohd. Omar, (Supra ) the presumption can be drawn
 that the appellants had abducted Nitish Katara and are
 responsible for his murder. 1395. The above facts and circumstances from an unbroken chain
 of circumstances which point only to the guilt of the
 appellants while the individual circumstances by themselves
 would not be sufficient to arrive at the finding of guilt of the
 appellants. However, the linkages of the proved
 circumstances are complete and militate against the
 innocence of the appellants. XII Whether the appellants absconded after the crime - if so,
 effect thereof? 1396. Mr. Jethmalani has urged that the prosecution has attempted
 to bring the circumstance that the accused persons were
 absconding from 17th of February, 2002. Learned senior
 counsel has submitted that to do so, it is not sufficient to say
 that the accused was not at a place where he could normally
 be found for the court to draw the inference that the
 subsequent conduct of the appellants was that of guilty
 persons. The prosecution must also keep a watch over
 places where the accused is to be normally found. Learned
 senior counsel has urged that Vishal Yadav was the father of Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 775 a three year old child in February, 2002 while Vikas Yadav
 was to marry shortly thereafter and there was no question of
 their absconding. The submission is that there is nothing on
 record to show that the police made any inquiries from their
 houses. 1397. The further submission is that there must be clear evidence
 led by the prosecution that the accused persons had the
 knowledge that they were wanted in any case or reasonably
 suspected of commission of any offence. It is urged that the
 prosecution has led no evidence in this case other than their
 names being flashed in the press. 1398. Mr. Jethmalani has urged at great length that the prosecution
 has to give evidence of the actual address to which they had
 proceeded and who they met there. It has been contended
 that the prosecution was required to lead positive evidence
 that the premises to which they had proceeded was actually
 the address of the accused persons. It is submitted by the
 defence that the evidence led by the prosecution is
 hopelessly insufficient in this regard. Learned senior
 counsel has further contended that even the Investigating
 Officer PW-35 Anil Somania has wrongly stated that the
 addresses were available in the FIR and he does not give the
 actual houses to which they had proceeded. 1399. Learned senior counsel has further submitted that to hold
 abscondance against the accused, it is insufficient for the
 prosecution to merely say that the accused persons were
 absconding from a place at a particular time. The police must
 prove an attempt by the accused to hide. The police had to
 keep a watch over the residence and then leave a notice.
 Positive evidence of the address of the accused persons was
 required to be stated in the witness box and that the
 prosecution has failed to lead any evidence on any of the
 aforenoticed circumstances. It is submitted that no question
 was put to the accused persons while recording their
 statements under Section 313 of the Cr.P.C. with regard to
 their address. 1400. In support of these submissions, reliance has been placed on
 the pronouncement reported at AIR 1970 Bombay 438
 Dinkar Bandhu Deshmukh and Anr. v. State. In para 21 of
 this pronouncement, the Bombay High Court has held as
 follows :- State of West Bengal, JT 2010 (7) SC 379. 34. Abscondance by a person against whom
 FIR has been lodged, having an
 apprehension of being apprehended by the
 police, cannot be said to be unnatural. Thus,
 mere abscondance by the appellant after
 commission of the crime and remaining
 untraceable for a period of six days itself cannot
 establish his guilt. Absconding by itself is not
 conclusive proof of either of guilt or of a
 guilty conscience.‖

 (Emphasis supplied)

 Abscondance per se, after commission of a crime is not by
 itself proof of guilt of a person. 1402. It was the case of the prosecution that after committing the
 murder of Nitish Katara on the intervening night of 16/17 th
 February, 2002, the three accused persons, Vikas Yadav,
 Vishal Yadav and Sukhdev @ Pehalwan absconded. It is
 contended that the factum of abscondance of the accused
 immediately after commission of the crime was not conduct
 of innocent persons. It was further urged that the same would
 be an added circumstance which points towards the guilt of
 the accused. 1403. So far as tracking the accused persons after 16th February,
 2002 is concerned, Mr. Dayan Krishnan, learned Additional
 Public Prosecutor for the State has drawn our attention to the
 evidence of PW-34 SI J.K. Gangwar and the Investigating Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 780 Officer PW-35 Anil Somania. Let us examine the steps taken
 by the police to trace the appellants. PW-35 stated that on
 17th February, 2002, in his absence, the FIR No. 192/2002
 was registered under Section 364 of the IPC at Police Station
 Kavi Nagar naming Vishal Yadav and Vikas Yadav. He
 received a copy of the FIR while investigating another case
 and reached the police station at about 2.00 p.m. on 17 th
 February, 2002 and thereafter started investigation in the
 case. The witness has stated that the addresses of the accused
 persons were given in the FIR and that he searched for them
 at their houses in Sector 4 and 5, Ghaziabad. Neither they
 were traceable at their houses nor Nitish Katara was to be
 found there. In his cross-examination, the witness has
 stated that the houses of Vishal Yadav and Vikas Yadav
 were situated at a distance of only 3 kms from police station
 Kavi Nagar. On 18th February, 2002, the witness again went and searched
 for the accused persons at their houses, but without any
 positive result. PW-35 further stated that he was
 accompanied by lady SI Anju Bhadoriya, when he went to
 the houses of the accused persons. Only the mothers of the
 accused persons met him in their resepective houses and that
 they had signed the copy of the search memos in respect of
 these searches (Ex. PW-35/2 and PW-35/3). 1404. PW-35 has also testified about searches made for Vikas and
 Vishal Yadav at the Diamond Palace Banquet Hall as well as
 in other localities in Ghaziabad which were the possible
 hideouts of the accused persons. 1405. The Investigating Officer also visited the official residence
 allotted to Shri D.P. Yadav, father of Vikas Yadav at 15,
 Balwant Rai Lane, Delhi where also neither the accused
 persons nor the deceased could be found. 1406. On 19th February, 2002, PW-35 Anil Somania searched for
 the accused persons at their offices in Udyog Vihar, Gurgaon
 but he could not find them there. PW-35 Anil Somania also
 learnt that the accused persons were involved in a sugar mill
 in Mukeria, Hoshiarpur (Punjab) and also could be at the
 farm house at Dhanari, District Budaun, UP and that he
 should search for the accused persons in these two places.
 On 19th February, 2002, the Investigating Officer sent SI
 A.P. Bhardwaj to search for them at the Dhanari farm house
 owned by the accused. On 19th February, 2002 PW-35
 himself searched for the accused persons again at their
 houses in Ghaziabad but could not find them there. 1407. On 19th February, 2002, PW-35 also received telephonic
 information from Sh.C.P. Singh, PS Khurja that a dead body
 was recovered in his area on 17th February, 2002. SI Anil Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 782 Somania states that at about 9 p.m. on the night of 19th of
 February, 2002, he went to Khurja. 1408. On the next day, that is, 20th February, 2002, PW-35 again
 went to the houses of the accused persons at Raj Nagar but
 this time found them locked. In these circumstances, on 20th
 February, 2002 PW-35 Anil Somania was constrained to
 initiate legal process in court of CJM, Ghaziabad against the
 accused persons and non bailable warrants of arrest were
 obtained against Vikas and Vishal Yadav. PW-35 also made
 an application in the court of Chief Judicial Magistrate,
 Ghaziabad for issuance of process under Section 82 / 83 of the
 Cr.P.C. (Exh.PW-35/8) for attachment of the properties of
 the accused persons. In this application he stated that he
 searched for the accused at their residences B-14 Gulmohar
 Park, New Delhi; R-4/16 Raj Nagar and other possible
 hideouts such as the Oswal Sugar Mill in Mukeria
 Hoshiarpur (Punjab) and an agricultural farm in Dhanari,
 Dist. Bidaun. While recording their statement under Section
 313 of the Cr.P.C., we find that the accused persons have
 given the same Raj Nagar addresses as those mentioned by
 the police. The warrants of arrest also could not be executed
 as the accused persons were not at their house. Thus the submission of learned Senior Counsel that there is
 no evidence of the addresses at which the police searched for
 the appellants is contrary to record. 1409. Our attention is also drawn to the testimony of PW-34 SI
 J.K. Gangwar who joined investigation for the first time on
 19th February, 2002 and participated in the investigation as
 and when required by the investigating officer Anil Somania.
 PW-34 SI J.K. Gangwar has corroborated PW-35 about the
 police search for Vikas and Vishal Yadav on 19 th and 20th
 February, 2002. 1410. PW-35 has clearly stated that he also pasted the notice of
 attachment of the properties at the houses of the accused
 persons. At the same time, the witness took steps for
 recording of the statement of witnesses under Section 161 of
 the Cr.P.C. as well as identification of the body recovered at
 Khurja. However, despite best efforts the witness was
 unsuccessful in arresting the two accused persons. 1411. The categorical statements by the Investigating Officer about
 the searches made by them have been not even remotely
 challenged by the accused persons. There is not a whit of
 cross-examination nor any suggestion that the investigating
 officers were making false statements that they visited the
 residence of the accused persons. 1412. So far as the knowledge of accused persons with regard to
 their being wanted in the present case is concerned, in their
 statement under Section 313 of the Cr.P.C., Vishal Yadav
 has volunteered as the answer to question no.217 to the Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 784 effect that ―I remained in Ghaziabad till 19/2/02 and when I
 came to know that I was being framed in this case, I left for
 Allahabad on 20/2/02 where I had to meet my brother Vikas
 who had also left for Allahabad. We contacted Adv. Sh. A.N.
 Mishra, narrated the circumstances to him and he advised us
 that as we were being harassed, we should go and surrender
 before the local court at Ghaziabad. From Allahabad we
 took the next available train to Delhi to reach Ghaziabad, on
 the way alighted at Dabra for refreshments but were falsely
 implicated as stated above." 1413. Vikas Yadav has stated that at Bisoli on the 19 th of February,
 2002, he learnt about his implication in the case. 1414. Vikas and Vishal Yadav have admitted that they acquired
 knowledge of their being wanted in the case involving Nitish
 Katara's demise in this manner. 1415. These were already times of mobile/cell phones and people
 remained closely connected. The police personnel appear to
 have visited every known address of the two appellants,
 Vikas and Vishal Yadav. It is in evidence that they met their
 mothers on the 18th of February, 2002, went to execute
 warrants of arrest, pasted orders of attachment outside their
 houses. It is impossible to belive that the appellant were not
 informed by their family members (including mothers) on Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 785 17th February, 2002 that the Ghazibad police was searching
 for them. 1416. We are here concerned with literate well placed respectable
 citizens who were guided by able legal experts. Would not
 any law abiding citizen react to attachment notices pasted
 outside his house and take steps in accordance with law? 1417. In the statements recorded by IO Anil Somania under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. of Vikas and Vishal Yadav after
 they were arrested on the 25th of February 2002, there was
 disclosure of a third accomplice named ‗Pehalwan'. Better
 particulars of this ‗Pehalwan' were revealed by PW-35
 Bharti Yadav in her statement recorded on 2nd March, 2002
 under Section 161 Cr.P.C. (Exh.PW-35/AB) when the
 Investigating Officer learnt his full identity as ‗Sukhdev
 Pehalwan', an employee at their liquor business at
 Bulandshahr. The witness also stated that he searched for
 Sukhdev Yadav at Bulandshahr on the 3rd and 4th of March,
 2002 and thereafter made an application for attachment of
 his properties under Section 83 of the Cr.PC as he was also
 evading arrest. We are considering the conduct and arrest of
 Sukhdev @ Pehalwan separately, hereafter. 1418. The case of the prosecution that despite best efforts, Vikas
 and Vishal Yadav were not found at any of their known
 addresses and were absconding is fully proved in the Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 786 testimony of SI Anil Somania and SI J.K. Gangwar. Their
 action of abscondance is a relevant piece of evidence the
 value would be considered upon with the other facts and
 circumstances established by the prosecution. 1419. The accused persons had been arrested by the Dabra Police
 under the Arms Act early that morning but had been taken
 for production before the Judicial Magistrate at his house at
 11 p.m. in the night. On the night of 23rd February, 2002
 itself, SI Anil Somania rushed with a handwritten application
 before the learned Judicial Magistrate, Distt. Dabra, Gwalior,
 MP (Ex. PW-35/11A) to the effect that the accused Vikas
 Yadav and Vishal Yadav were wanted in the present case;
 that because these two persons were being produced in the
 night at 11 p.m. before the judge, therefore, it was not
 possible for the Ghaziabad police to take any other steps and
 therefore, the two accused persons be not released on bail. 1420. On 24th February, 2002, the SO, Anil Somania moved an
 application (Ex. PW 35/13A) before the court of the Judicial
 Magistrate, Dabra stating that the accused persons have been
 named in FIR No. 192/2002 under Section 364 IPC (P.S.
 Kavi Nagar) prayed for two days transit remand of these two
 persons that they could be produced before the Chief Judicial
 Magistrate, Ghaziabad in the present case. 1421. The accused persons kept moving the frivolous applications
 before the Magistrate at Dabra to avoid their custody being
 handed over to the Ghaziabad police.. On the 24th of
 February, 2002 at 4:21 p.m. both Vikas Yadav and Vishal
 Yadav jointly filed an application before the court of Judicial
 Magistrate, First Class stating that the PS Kavi Nagar,
 Ghaziabad had registered a case against them; that the police
 of Ghaziabad wanted to take them away on account of
 political pressure and in collusion with the opposition and
 that they planned to kill the applicants in a fake encounter.
 A prayer was made that the custody of the applicants be not
 handed over to the PS Kavi Nagar at night as they harboured
 apprehensions regarding their security. 1422. Vishal Yadav also filed objections on the 24th of February
 2002 that under Section 79 of the Cr.P.C., the Ghaziabad
 police was required to mandatorily obtain warrants of arrest
 from the concerned magistrate as the police wanted to take
 the applicant from one state to another, which the Ghaziabad
 police was not having. A prayer was made that the Kavi
 Nagar, Ghaziabad police be directed to obtain a warrant from
 the concerned court and to formally arrest only thereafter. 1423. In para 1 of the objections, Vishal Yadav mentions that
 Ghaziabad police wanted to arrest Vishal Yadav in the case
 under Sections 364 , 302 , 201 of IPC. In para 1 of the joint
 application, reference is again made to the case under Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 788 Section 302 of the IPC. It is urged by Mr. P.K. Dey, learned
 counsel for the complainant that at the time of making of this
 application, FIR No.192/2000 registered by PS Kavi Nagar
 was simply under Section 364 IPC. Sections 302 and 201 IPC had not been added therein. Mr. Dey points out that it
 was only on 25th February, 2002 upon receipt of the report of
 the DNA test conducted on the samples from the dead body
 as well as Nilam Katara and her husband that it was
 confirmed to the police that the body recovered at Khurja on
 17th February, 2002 was actually that of Nitish Katara. Therefore, commission of offences under Section 302 / 201 of
 the IPC was added to the FIR only therafter pursuant to the
 order of 27th February, 2002 passed by the Chief Judicial
 Magistrate, Ghaziabad. 1424. Mr. P.K. Dey, learned counsel has urged that Vishal Yadav
 and Vikas Yadav have mentioned Section 302 IPC in the
 applications which were filed by them before the Judicial
 Magistrate at Dabra on 24th February, 2002 as well as 25th
 February, 2002 even though it had not been incorporated in
 the FIR, only because of their complicity in and from their
 knowledge of the murder of Nitish Katara and destruction of
 evidence. 1425. Upon grant of transit remand, Anil Somania took custody of
 the accused persons from the jail at Dabra and finally started Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 789 for Ghaziabad in the evening of 24th February, 2002 after
 recording the departure in the Daily Diary (Exh. PW-36/8)
 of PS Dabra. 1426. The two accused persons were produced before the court of
 Chief Judicial Magistrate on 25th February, 2002. The court
 directed that Vishal and Vikas Yadav be kept for a period of
 14 days, i.e, till 11th March, 2002 in judicial remand and
 directed preparation of the warrants under Section 167 of
 Cr.P.C. 1427. Thereafter, on 27th February, 2002, both Vikas Yadav and
 Vishal Yadav had been produced from jail in the court of the
 Chief Judicial Magistrate pursuant to the order dated 25th of
 February, 2002 passed on the application for police remand.
 The learned Chief Judicial Magistrate perused the report of
 the investigating officer as well as the case diary (‗CD') .
 The investigating officer made a request to the court for
 addition of offences under Section 302 / 201 IPC. The court
 accordingly proceeded under Section 167 of the Cr.P.C. and
 while directing addition of Section 302 / 201 of the IPC, noted
 that the accused had already been directed to be remanded to
 custody till 11th March, 2002. It was directed further that the
 warrant of the accused persons under Section 167 be
 prepared under Sections 364 , 302 and 201 IPC. Explanation of Vikas and Vishal Yadav in their statement under
Section 313 of the Cr.P.C. 1428. This case of the prosecution that the appellants absconded
 after the incident was put to both the accused persons while
 recording their statement under Section 313 of the Cr.P.C. 1429. The question nos. 66 to 70 put to Vikas Yadav under Section
 313 are relevant on this aspect. At the end of the questions
 by the court Vikas Yadav attempted to explain that after he
 left the marriage venue at the Diamond Palace Banquet Hall
 he had gone with Vishal to attend the party of Amit Gandhi
 in Raj Nagar. Thereafter Vishal left for his house while he
 left for Karnal to attend a havan and a ring ceremony. After
 attending these, he went to his factory in Mukeria. In the
 evening of 18th February, 2002, he left for Bisoli and early in
 the morning of 19th February, 2002 reached his constituency.
 In Bisoli, he learnt that he had been implicated in a false
 case. He consequently proceeded to Allahabad which he
 reached in the morning of 20th of October, 2002 and
 contacted Shri Arvind Mishra, Advocate. Vishal also
 reached there the next morning when they met Mr. A.D.
 Giri, Senior Advocate and Mr. Jai Singh, Advocate when it
 was deemed to surrender before the concerned court at
 Ghaziabad. 1430. Questions No. 45, 92, 93 and 94 were put to Vishal Yadav
 were in this regard who also denied the fact that he
 absconded without anything more. He claimed that on the
 19th of February, 2002, he was in his house at Ghaziabad and
 that he had his cousin in Allahabad where they went to take
 legal advice. XIII Whether defence evidence to prove alibi to displace the
 evidence of last seen and explain period of abscondance is
 believable? The discussion on this subject is being considered under the
 following sub-headings: 1432. It is pointed out by Mr. P.K. Dey, learned counsel appearing
 for the complainant that the accused persons opted to lead
 their evidence and examined 26 witnesses ten of whom
 (DW-1 Sh. Ashok Gandhi, DW-3 Rajender Chaudhary, DW-
 4 Pawan Kumar Diwan, DW-5 Adv Sh. Rajkumar Yadav,
 DW 6 Sh. Neeraj Gautam, DW-12 Arvind Mishra, DW-17
 Sandeep Mishra, DW-19 Jai Singh, DW-21 Samar Singh,
 DW-22 Satpal Yadav) were practicing advocates. Mr.Dey
 has assailed the testimony of these witnesses as being false
 and that it failed to demolish the prosecution case. 1433. Proof of alibi to disprove their presence at the alleged place
 is relevant by virtue of Section 11 of the Evidence Act which
 states that facts not otherwise relevant are relevant if they are
 inconsistent with any fact in issue, or relevant fact; or if by
 themselves or in connection with other facts they make the
 existence or non-existence of any fact in issue or relevant
 fact highly probable or improbable. Therefore the question
 as to whether the appellants were at Hapur Chungi at
 12:00/12:30 pm in the night of 17th February, 2002 or on the
 Shikharpur Road where the crime was committed or any
 other place is a relevant fact. 1434. Is there a lesser burden on the accused person to establish the
 plea of alibi? On this question reliance has been placed on
 the pronouncement reported at (1996) 6 SCC 112 Hari
 Chand & Anr. v. State of Delhi , where the accused persons
 set up such a plea of alibi. It has been held by the Supreme
 Court that the defence has to prove the same to the hilt. The
 Court has stated that "that an alibi is not an exception
 (special or general) envisaged in Indian Penal Code or any
 other law. It is only rule of evidence recognized in Section
 11 of the Evidence Act that facts which are inconsistent with
 the facts in issue are relevant." Therefore the accused also
 has to discharge burden of proof beyond reasonable doubt. So far as the nature of evidence to prove a plea of alibi is
 concerned, in ( 1984) 1 SCC 446, State of Maharashtra v.
 Narsingrao, Gangaram Pimple , the Supreme Court has held
 in para 18 that ‗it is well settled that a plea of alibi must be
 proved with absolute certainty to completely exclude the
 possibility of the person concerned at the place of
 occurrence'. 1435. In Crl.App.No.830/2005 decided on 24th March, 2006,
 Mohinder Singh v. State of Punjab, the Supreme Court had
 declared that ―the onus to prove alibi rests heavily on the
 accused‖. 1436. Placing reliance on the pronouncement reported at (1997) 4
 SCC 496, Rajesh Kumar v. Dharamvir and Ors., (para 23),
 it was urged that the appellants having set up a plea of alibi
 were required to prove the same with absolute certainty. In
 Rajesh Kumar (supra) the defence witness claiming to be
 the advocate of the accused in a pending case, had stated that
 at the relevant time the accused was in his office. The court
 disbelieved the testimony of the defence witness as no
 contemporaneous document was produced in support of the
 defence statement or to prove the plea of alibi. In these
 circumstances, the court held as follows: - 1439. Sukhdev @ Pehalwan has set up a plea that he was living in
 his native village on 16th February, 2002 and on all material
 dates thereafter till his arrest in February 2005 and that he
 has nothing to do with the crime. 1440. Mr. Dayan Krishnan has urged that DW-1 Ashok Gandhi,
 DW 4 Pawan Kumar Diwan and DW 14 Manuj Diwan are
 closely associated with the accused persons and their
 families and are false witnesses. It has been urged that the
 very silence all the defence witnesses for a period of five
 years since the occurrence on 16th/17th February, 2002 till
 their testimonies from 3rd July 2007 to 6th August 2007 Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 796 shows that they have been set up to support a false defence
 which was not put to any of the prosecution witnesses. 1441. The question which has to be answered as to whether the
 appellants have been able to establish the defence pleas of
 alibi. 1442. The defence has sought to establish that Vikas and Vishal
 were only very briefly (15 minutes) at the wedding of
 Shivani Gaur on the night of 16th February, 2002 and that
 after attending the wedding of Shivani Gaur, they proceeded
 to the ring ceremony of Sh.Amit Gandhi, son of Shri Ashok
 Gandhi. 1443. The defence examined Sh. Ashok Gandhi, an income tax
 advocate by profession who was a resident of R-2/233, Raj
 Nagar, Ghaziabad as DW-1 to establish the fact that Vikas
 and Vishal Yadav had attended the ring ceremony of his son
 Amit Gandhi at the Gandhi residence. The function started
 at his residence at about 8.30 p.m. of the 16th February, 2002
 and the rituals took 1-2 hours. The witness had testified that
 guests started coming at about 10 p.m. to his residence. The
 prospective parents-in-laws (Vijs) of his son were
 accompanied by Mrs.D.P. Yadav, mother of Vikas Yadav
 and the younger brother of accused Vishal Yadav whose
 name the witness did not know. 1444. DW-1 Ashok Gandhi further stated that Vikas and Vishal
 Yadav reached his residence later on, though he could not
 tell the exact time because he was not wearing a wrist watch.
 He, however, could state that they were there approximately
 around 11/11.30 p.m. As per DW-1, they had told him that
 they had taken their meal at his house; stayed at a party for
 about 1 / 1 ½ hours and left at about 12 / 12.15 midnight.
 Interestingly, as per DW-1, Vikas' mother Mrs.D.P. Yadav,
 who came with the bride-to-be, left at 10 p.m.

1445. DW-1 further stated that the ring ceremony was attended by
 150-200 persons and that he had welcomed and seen off all
 the guests personally while remaining at the gate throughout
 till about 1.30 a.m., by which time all the guests had left. As
 per DW-1, while leaving, the accused persons had touched
 his feet and he had offered a packet of sweets which his
 servant had kept in Vikas's vehicle. Vishal Yadav was
 handed over the packet of sweets as he was residing at a
 walkable distance and that he walked away towards his
 house with the packet of sweets in his hand. The witness
 also stated that the car to which the sweets were sent through
 the servant was an exclusive saloon car and that it must have
 been a Mercedes. 1446. So far as his acquaintance with the family of Sh.D.P. Yadav
 is concerned, DW-1, Sh. Ashok Gandhi stated that his two Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 798 children studied with Vikas and Vishal in the same school
 (Delhi Public School). 1447. DW 1 was clear that Vikas Yadav and Vishal Yadav were
 not invited to the ceremony either by him or by his son, Amit
 Gandhi. DW-1 also stated that his son had invited only his
 friends to his ring ceremony. He stated that Vikas and
 Vishal Yadav were invited to the function by the prospective
 in-laws of his son. This deposition makes it clear that Vikas
 and Vishal Yadav were not friends of Gandhis, certainly not
 of Amit Gandhi. 1448. DW-1 produced an invitation card (Exh.DW-1/D-1 to 5) in
 evidence. It is noted in the impugned judgment that Ex.
 DW-1/D-1 to 5, produced by DW 1 ran into 5 sheets. The
 cards for the functions do not mention celebration of any
 ring ceremony on 16th February, 2002 in the house of DW-1
 Ashok Gandhi. There is a card for a ‗Lagan Ceremony‟ on
 the 16th of February, 2002. In his cross-examination DW-1
 Ashok Gandhi refers to a ‗roka ceremony' as well. DW-1
 Ashok Gandhi has explained that in the lagan ceremony at
 7.00 pm, his daughter-in-law's parents were accompanied by
 a pandit who read out the „lagan‟ stating the date and time
 when the „saptpati‟ (wedding ceremony) was to be
 performed. There is no mention of the presence of the
 daughter-in-law. 1449. As per DW1, the ring ceremony was a small function. This
 function was to be performed at the residence of the groom
 to be. If such a function was actually held, the bride's side
 (the Vij's) would normally take only close relatives and
 friends. The invitation card would then be from the Vij
 family, not the Gandhis, and such invitation ought to be in
 the invitees possession. Vikas or Vishal Yadav were guests
 of Vij. Therefore, the appellants ought to have produced a
 card by which they had been invited by the Vij's family.
 they No such card has been produced or proved in evidence. 1450. The learned Trial Judge has disbelieved the celebration of
 any function at 11.30 pm also for the reason that as per the
 card the lagan ceremony was scheduled at 7.00 pm.

1451. The witness produced no photographs of the function which
 contained any other family member of either of the two
 accused persons, even though DW-1 had claimed that
 Mrs.D.P. Yadav and the younger brother of Vishal Yadav
 (who he wrongly named as Kunal) had attended the ring
 ceremony. While Mrs.D.P. Yadav is the mother of Vikas
 Yadav, we are informed that Kunal is actually the name of
 the younger brother of Vikas Yadav. From this testimony, it
 is evident that DW-1 Ashok Gandhi could not even
 distinguish between Vikas or Vishal Yadav. 1452. DW-1 further testified that Amit Gandhi's wedding was
 performed on 20th February, 2002 at the Le Meridien Hotel.
 There is no evidence that either Vikas, Vishal Yadav or any
 of their family members attended the wedding. The witness
 did not produce the CD or any photograph of the wedding
 ceremony. 1453. In the witness box, DW-1 stated that the function was both
 video-graphed and photographs were also taken. When his
 statement was recorded on 3rd July, 2007, the witness
 produced three photographs without negatives and,
 therefore, they were given the mark DW-1/D1 to D3 by the
 trial court. In his testimony, the witness also described the
 contents of the photographs. He pointed out that in the
 photograph mark DW-1/D1 and DW-1/D2, Vikas and Vishal
 Yadav were dancing with his other relatives and the
 photographs marked DW-1/D3 featured Vikas Yadav with
 the father of Megha Vij, daughter-in-law of DW-1. 1454. The witness did not produce the video cassette / CD of the
 ring ceremony function stating that it was in the custody of
 the father-in-law of his son, whom he had given another set
 as he had wanted the same and that since they were out of
 station and reached home yesterday, he could not collect the
 same. The trial judge deferred the further examination-in-
 chief of this witness for want of negatives. On 4th July,
 2007, DW-1 again stated that he could not bring the Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 801 negatives of the photographs as undertaken the previous day
 since he could not locate them. He stated that he would try to
 locate the negatives from the concerned photographer and
 sought 3-4 days time to do so. It was only on the 9th July,
 2007 that DW-1, Sh.Ashok Gandhi produced three negatives
 which was accepted on recorded as Exhibit DW-1/D4 - 1 to 3. The photographs were consequently also given exhibit
 marks as Exh.DW-1/D1 to D3. 1455. The witness admits that neither he nor his son Amit Gandhi
 is appearing in any of the photographs. DW-1 has also
 admitted that no ring ceremony is being performed in the
 photographs which he had produced. The photographs bear
 neither the date nor time. None of the photographs
 contained the house number or the name plate of the witness
 to enable identification of the place where these photographs
 had been taken. In Ex. DW-1/D3, there is a third person also
 a lady who was identified by DW-1 as being the wife of
 Sh.Rajender Gandhi, his elder brother. 1456. In his cross-examination on 9th July, 2007, the witness stated
 that he brought the negatives from his house which he
 obtained from his ‗samdhi' (son's father-in-law). The
 witness did not know where these negatives were collected
 from. The witness denied the suggestion that the negatives
 have been prepared from the positive photographs which the
 witness had produced. 1457. The oral testimony of the witness shows that after repeated
 adjournments, the witness had produced three single
 negatives. In answer to question as to how many negatives
 were there in one roll of photographs, the witness had stated
 that he had received the negatives in strips containing five
 negatives. The witness was further cross-examined that he
 had produced only three negatives out of strips. In answer,
 the witness stated that the other two negatives were
 pertaining to his son and daughter-in-law and that after
 cutting out those two negatives, he has produced three
 negatives in the court. The witness, therefore, himself stated
 that the negatives had been tampered with. The witness had
 neither brought the other two negatives which he claimed to
 have cut nor did he bring any payment receipt of the
 photographer or the bill. 1458. The witness was unable to give the name of the
 photographer who took the photographs, (Exh.DW-1/D1 -
 D3) when questioned and took the excuse that the
 photographer was engaged by the family of his daughter-in-
 law! This by itself is unbelievable - for a function in his
 house, DW-1 Ashok Gandhi had not engaged any
 photographer. This statement also falsifies his oral testimony
 that he (DW-1) had given the video to the Vij's. Though
 DW-1 does not even know the name of the photographer, he
 would get the negatives from the photographer (that too one Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 803 engaged by the Vij's). Though DW-1 denied the suggestion
 to this effect, we find substance in the objection that the
 photographs were morphed and not genuine. 1459. So far as the photographs Ex. DW-1/1 to 3 are concerned,
 the learned Trial Judge has held that the defence has failed to
 prove that these photographs were clicked in any ring
 ceremony or that they were actually taken on 16 th February,
 2002 between 11.30 pm and around 12.30 of that night. No
 photograph of the actual ring ceremony or the roka
 ceremony was produced on record. Other than three
 photographs, no album or any video cassette of such
 function was produced on record. The learned Trial Judge
 has held that the witness does not state that such documents
 are not available and has, therefore, drawn adverse inference
 for withholding such documents, which are within the
 special knowledge and power and possession of the witness. 1460. Therefore, even if we accept that the photographs relate to a
 function held at the residence of DW1, they do not establish
 that the function was held on 16th February, 2002. For all
 these reasons, the photographs are therefore of no
 evidentiary value so far as the defence claim is concerned. 1461. Apart from the above, there is an even more fundamental
 reason why the testimony of DW-1 Ashok Gandhi inspires
 no confidence and deserves to be rejected. DW 1 Ashok Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 804 Gandhi admits that on 20th, 21st or 22nd February, 2002 he
 came to know through the newspaper about the implication
 of Vikas and Vishal Yadav in the crime committed on the
 night of 16th/17th February, 2002. Despite reading the said
 news, he did not approach the police or any court to inform
 the higher authorities that the accused persons could not
 have committed the offence as they were attending the
 function at his house at the said night. 1462. The learned Special Prosecutor specifically put it to this
 witness that even as an advocate whether he had tried to
 contact the police or any court to inform them that the
 accused persons had been falsely implicated in the case and
 that at the relevant time they were present in his function.
 The witness testified that if a crime like murder was
 committed in his presence then he was definitely required to
 report the matter to the police. The accused persons were
 amongst the 150 people who had come to the function as
 guests; that there were number of cases pending in different
 courts where persons are falsely implicated and as such he
 was not supposed to go to the court in every case. 1463. The witness further stated that he never tried to meet the
 accused persons after they were being produced in court at
 Ghaziabad. He volunteered that unless he was called by
 somebody he had no business to go to a particular place. The
 witness explains that as per his knowledge, higher authorities Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 805 were required to be informed only if somebody committed a
 crime and that he was not required to give information in
 favour of those who had not committed any crime! In
 answer to a court question, DW 1 answered that if somebody
 had been falsely implicated to his knowledge and he was
 aware that the person concerned is innocent, certainly he
 would approach the higher authorities. 1464. When the Special Public Prosecutor put to the witness that
 he had not produced the photographs and the marriage card
 before the police or in any court if Vikas and Vishal Yadav
 were innocent, DW-1 Sh.Ashok Gandhi answered that it was
 to be tested by the court whether the person is innocent or
 not. 1465. The witness answered that after the engagement function on
 16th February, 2002, he met the accused Vishal Yadav on
 30th May, 2007 and the accused Vikas Yadav in the Trial
 Court on 3rd July, 2007. The witness stated that he met Shri
 D.P. Yadav for the first time on 1st July, 2007. Realising that
 he was entering troubled waters, this witness again retracted
 his earlier statement and said Vishal Yadav had approached
 his son and not him. 1466. The Supreme Court discredited the account of defence
 witnesses in ( 2003) 12 SCC 516 Gyasuddin Khan @ Md.
 Gyasuddin v. The State of Bihar on the ground that the Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 806 defence witnesses never appeared before the police to give
 their version and appeared before the court for the first time
 to give their evidence. The Supreme Court disbelieved the
 testimony of the witnesses because they withheld important
 information and held as follows: 1483. It is in evidence that DW-4 Pawan Kumar Diwan was a
 partner of Shri D.P. Yadav in liquor business in Rajasthan,
 Haryana and U.P. and had family relations with him as well. 1484. The witness stated that the „Paryojan‟ function relating to
 the marriage of his son Manuj Diwan (DW-14) was
 organised on 16th February, 2002 in his house in 204-L,
 Model Town, Karnal. The Sagan ceremony was scheduled
 for the morning of 17th Feburary, 2002 following by ring
 ceremony at the Highway Green, Karnal on the Chandigarh
 Road. The witness stated that the family of Shri D.P. Yadav
 was invited in the aforesaid functions. DW-14 mentions the
 presence of Vikas Yadav in the ring ceremony which started
 around 9.30/10 a.m. on 17th February, 2002. 1485. As per DW - 4, the Paryojan ceremony was over by 2:30 am
 of the 17th of February 2002. Vikas Yadav reached his
 house in Karnal at about 3 a.m. on the night intervening
 16/17th February, 2002. On account of the house being
 crowded with guests, DW-4 offered him the alternative of
 accommodation either in the house or in a room booked at
 the Karnal lake. 1486. DW-14 Manuj Diwan has stated Vikas Yadav left after
 taking lunch on the 17th of February 2002 at approximately
 2/2.30 p.m.

1487. The trial court has noted that the witnesses could not
 produce any record of booking of rooms at Karnal Lake
 where the accused was hosted. No invitation card at all for
 the functions allegedly celebrated on 16th or 17th February, Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 814 2002 was produced. There is thus no evidence of the
 claimed arrival of Vikas Yadav at 3 am at Karnal or the
 functions being actually held on the 17th of February 2002 or
 Vikas Yadav's participation therein. 1488. So far as the evidence of DW-4 Pawan Kumar Diwan about
 the date and timing of Vikas Yadav's arrival/departure as
 well as the functions is concerned, it is noteworthy that DW-
 4 Pawan Kumar Diwan was unable to give even the correct
 date of his son's marriage. This fact by itself casts doubt
 about the functions having been actually held on 17 th
 February, 2002 and not on some other date. 1489. As per DW-14 Manuj Diwan the ring ceremony started at
 about 9.30 or 10 am and lasted till about 4 pm. He claimed
 that Vikas Yadav had reached the venue before they reached
 it for attending the function and remained there till around 3
 pm. The learned Trial Judge who saw the CD has stated that
 the CD Ex. DW-4/1 does not show Vikas Yadav presence in
 the function before or at the time of the ring ceremony. It
 does feature Vikas Yadav sitting with Manuj. The same is
 however not dated. 1490. DW-4 also produced two photographs which were initially
 marked as DW-4/A and B and later exhibited as Exh
 DW14/C and D. These photographs bore neither the date
 nor the time at which they were taken. In order to explain the Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 815 failure to approach the police with the evidence of Vikas
 Yadav's visit, DW-4 had set up a story that in his absence
 Ghaziabad police visited his house at Karnal and saw the
 photographs of the ring ceremony. DW-4 has advanced an
 explanation that after 15-20 days of the arrest of the accused
 persons, when he was in Alwar, he received a telephone call
 from his residence at Karnal that ‗some' police officers from
 Ghaziabad had visited his residence and they were shown the
 photographs of the function. By that time, the album was
 not received from the photographer and his children had
 brought the photographs from the photographer and shown
 them to the police. The witness further stated that his
 children disclosed to him that the circle around the face of
 the accused Vikas in the photograph mark Exh.DW-4/B was
 marked by the police. The witness had stated that his
 children also told him that some photographs were taken
 away by police. 1491. DW-14-Manuj Diwan, son of DW-4 states that he was at
 home when the police came. However, DW 14 Manuj Diwan
 contradicts his father and says that he does not know who
 has encircled the photograph. 1492. The witness neither made a complaint nor filed any
 application in the Karnal or Ghaziabad court with regard to
 the alleged visit by the Ghaziabad police to his residence. He
 claimed that since the police had already reached his Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 816 residence at Karnal and verification stood done by it from
 his residence, therefore, he did not inform any court or
 police officials. 1493. The learned Trial Judge has carefully analysed the
 evidentiary value of the photograph Ex. DW-14/A. DW-14
 produced the entire album relating to his ring ceremony Ex.
 DW-14/A is the only photograph in the entire album
 featuring the accused. Though DW-4 Pawan Kumar Diwan
 had produced the photographs Exh.DW-4/A and B (later
 exhibited as Ex. DW-14/C and D). However, neither the
 photographer nor bills relating thereto were produced. The
 learned Trial Judge has noted that Ex. DW-14/A and the
 photographs marked Ex. DW-4/B (later Ex. DW-14/D) are
 one and the same. The net result is that Vikas Yadav
 features in only a single photograph of the ring ceremony. 1494. There is also a contradiction with regard to the photographs
 being given to the police. As per DW-4, when the police
 visited his house, the album had not been received and
 photographs were brought from the photographer. On the
 contrary, his son Manuj Diwan (DW-14) who met the police,
 stated that the album was with him when the police came to
 their house and he had procured copies of Ex. DW-14/C and
 D prepared by the photographer from the negatives, which
 were taken by the police. 1495. As per DW-14, the photographs were taken by Dhingras
 Heena Digital Color Lab, 1st Floor, Mahavir Dal Mandir
 Market, Karnal. The witness was unable to produce the
 negatives of the photographs produced by him and rendered
 the convenient explanation that the negatives were misplaced
 by the photographer since he had shifted his shop. The
 camera man who would have taken the video recording has
 not been examined as a witness. The CD and the
 photographs have therefore not been proved on record in
 accordance with law. 1496. No suggestion was put by the defence to any of the
 prosecution witnesses especially PW-28 Ct. Inderjeet Singh;
 PW-32 Ct. Satender Pal Singh; PW-34 SI J.K. Gangwar and
 PW-35 SI Anil Somania or PW-33 Ajay Katara that Vikas
 Yadav had gone to attend function at Karnal in the early
 hours of the morning of 17th of February, 2002 and was not
 at the spot when they were cited. No suggestion was put to
 the police officials that the Ghaziabad police had visited the
 house of DW-4 and DW-14 and collected the photographs. It
 is clearly evident that till that time, neither the alibi nor had
 explanation been conceived by the defence. 1497. In (2000) 4 SCC 484 Jaswant Singh v. State of Haryana,
 for the first time in the statement recorded under Section 313 of the Cr.P.C., the accused persons had set up a plea of
 defence. In para 52, the court held that the High Court had Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 818 rightly rejected this plea as a after-thought for the reason that
 no such plea was put in cross-examination to any of the
 prosecution witnesses). 1498. In the instant case as well, a suggestion of a possible alibi is
 set up for the first time in the cross-examination of PW 42
 Bhawna Yadav. 1499. In the statement of Vikas Yadav recorded under Section 313 Cr.P.C., Vikas Yadav had stated that he had to attend a
 ‗hawan' in the morning of 17th February, 2002 and thereafter
 a ring ceremony at Karnal. No disclosure was made by the
 Vikas Yadav of the name of the person whose place he was
 to visit in connection with these functions obviously as the
 accused persons had not by then crystallized their defence.
 Also neither DW 4 nor DW 14 refer to any havan. 1500. It is in evidence that DW-4 Mr. Pawan Kumar Diwan was
 Shri D.P. Yadav's business partner as well as close friend.
 The prosecution thus contends that DW-4 and his family
 made a false deposition to provide a defence to the accused
 because of this relationship with Shri D.P. Yadav, father of
 Vikas Yadav. The above narration would show that there is
 substance in this plea. 1501. Most noticeable is the fact that this witness also knew that
 Vikas Yadav was arrested 6-7 days after 17th February, 2002.
 Even though DW - 4 Mr. Pawan Kumar Diwan was a Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 819 business partner of Vikas Yadav's father and had family
 relations, he did not even bother to inform the police about
 the matters which he has deposed in court to help secure
 Vikas Yadav's release or discharge. 1502. DW-4 states that Shri D.P. Yadav attended his son's
 wedding. Yet DW-4 Pawan Kumar Diwan did not discuss
 his son's alibi in the early hours of the morning of 17 th
 February, 2002. He has maintained a stoic and inexplicable
 silence of five years, till he gave his evidence in court. 1503. We have noted above the authority of the Supreme Court in
 (2003) 12 SCC 516, Gyasuddin Khan v. State of Bihar
 wherein in similar circumstances, the defence evidence was
 held to be not trustworthy. The principle laid down squarely
 applies also to the evidence of DW-4 Pawan Kumar Diwan
 and DW-14 Manuj Diwan. 1504. As per Section 106 of the Indian Evidence Act, the burden of
 proving the fact which is especially within the knowledge of
 any person, lies upon him. The accused persons having
 taken the plea of alibi, have to discharge the burden of
 proving the same after the prosecution has discharged its
 burden. 1505. In 1997 Cri LJ 2853, Ambika Prasad v. State, this Court has
 observed that ―burden of proof for such plea lies on the
 person who raises it‖. An argument is raised on behalf of Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 820 the appellants before us that there is a lesser burden of proof
 on the accused to prove their defence and the evidence
 requires to be believed. On this aspect, reference has been
 made to the observations of the Delhi High Court in 1997
 Crl. L J 2853 Ambika Prasad and Anr. v. the State wherein
 it was held that burden of proving the plea of alibi lies on the
 person who raises it. The relevant paragraph has been
 extracted below: 1506. It has been urged by Mr. Dayan Krishnan, learned
 Additional Standing Counsel for the State that given the
 location where the accused persons and the deceased were
 last seen together, it is not impossible that after commission
 of the crime, the accused went to Karnal. The evidence led
 by Vikas and Vishal Yadav about their visit to the Gandhi
 residence and Karnal has been disbelieved. However, in the
 instant case, even if these pleas were accepted, the defence
 evidence does not exclude the possibility of the presence of
 the appellants at the Hapur Chungi at 12/12:30 a.m. and
 proceeding to Karnal as claimed. 1507. The Trial Court has held that the evidence led by Vikas and
 Vishal Yadav does not inspire any credibility and that such
 defence is purely an afterthought. We see no reason to
 disagree and hold that the Vikas and Vishal Yadav have
 failed to discharge the onus placed on them through reliable
 evidence to establish their plea of alibi. 1508. A question was put to DW-14 with regard to the date of his
 son's marriage. He could not recollect the same. This clearly Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 822 casts a serious doubt over his clarity about lesser events as a
 havan or a ring ceremony, their date and timings. The testimony of DW-4 and DW-14 is therefore not
 trustworthy and has been rightly rejected by the trial court. (iii) Vikas Yadav‟s visit to sugar factory at Mukeria at 7:10 pm
 on 17th February, 2002
1509. Vikas Yadav has examined Shri Ombir as DW-11, a
 Director with the Indian Sucrose Ltd. (earlier Oswal Sugars
 Ltd.) to establish that Vikas Yadav had visited the sugar
 factory at Mukeria in Punjab on 17th February, 2002 at 1910
 hours (i.e., 7:10 p.m.) as per an entry in an entry register for
 senior officers and left the factory at 19:40 hours. 1510. Interestingly, the witness also affirmed that as per an entry
 No.6 in the register (Exh.DW-11/D) made on 17th February,
 2002. DW-11 Om Bir himself had left the factory at about
 04.45 p.m. and thereafter entered the factory that day only at
 09.20 p.m., remaining there till 10.00 p.m. He therefore
 would have no knowledge about what transpired in the
 factory between 4:45 pm and 9:20 pm.

1511. In cross-examination, Shri Ombir further improved on his
 testimony and stated that on 18th February, 2002, the accused
 Vikas Yadav had again visited the factory at about 11.00
 a.m. for a meeting which started at about 11.30 a.m. and Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 823 lasted for about two hours. Nothing to this effect was said in
 his examination-in-chief. 1512. It is in evidence that SO Anil Somania, the Investigating
 Officer, visited the residence of both Vikas and Vishal
 Yadav on the 17th and 18th of February, 2002. He was not
 informed that Vikas Yadav was at the sugar factory. No
 suggestion to the effect that Vikas Yadav had visited his
 factory on 17th or 18th February, 2002 was also made in his
 cross-examination by the accused persons. 1513. This register was neither prepared by the witness nor
 certified by him as an officer of the company. It did not
 have the stamp of the company or the signature of any
 officer of the company. It was claimed to have been
 maintained at one of the multiple gates of the factory. DW-
 11 himself doubts the correctness of the register which
 shows that DW-11 had left the factory at 04.45 p.m. (and
 entered again at 09.20 p.m.) when he denies the suggestion
 that he was not present in the factory between this timing. 1514. In answer to a court question, Shri Ombir stated that Vikas
 Yadav was the Managing Director of the sugar factory and
 that there was no other entry in the register produced by him
 recording any other visit of the accused Vikas Yadav to the
 factory prior to 17th February, 2002. Nothing can be more
 suspect than the fact that the register which contains a single Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 824 entry relating to the accused Vikas Yadav and that too on
 17th February, 2002. 1515. The register was not paginated. as noticed by the trial court. The witness confirmed that the endorsement of Vikas's entry
 was also the last entry in the register. It is, therefore, clearly
 evident that a false document in the nature of the entry in the
 register had been created in a dishonest attempt to establish
 the presence of Vikas Yadav in the factory on 17 th February,
 2002. The evidence of DW 11 is unrealiable and certainly
 does not deserve the credence which the defence seeks to
 place on it. (iv) Alibi of Vikas Yadav with regard to the visit on 18th of
 February 2002
1516. So far as the 18th of February 2002 is concerned, other than
 the isolated statement made by DW-11 Om Bir in hind sight,
 that too while under cross-examination, that Vikas Yadav
 had visited the factory on 18th February, 2002 as well, there
 is no other evidence. 1517. The police personnel who appeared in the witness box
 established the concerted efforts from the 17th of February,
 2002 to search out the accused persons at all their known
 addresses including business premises including at the
 factory in Mukeria. No suggestion was made to these Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 825 witnesses that the accused had actually visited the factory on
 the dates in question or was available at any other place. 1518. The isolated statement of Ombir with regard to the
 movement of Vikas Yadav on the 18th of February, 2002,
 when examined against the other proven facts on record, is
 unbelievable. (v) Visit of Vikas Yadav to Bisauli on the 19th and 20th of
 February 2002
1519. We may now examine the defence evidence with regard to
 the movement of Vikas Yadav on the 19th February, 2002. 1520. The defence has attempted to prove that Vikas Yadav was in
 his constituency at Bisauli on 19th February, 2002. 1521. The defence has examined DW-9, Bhairav Prasad Maurya
 and DW-17, Sandeep Mishra to prove that on 19th and 20th
 February, 2002 Vikas Yadav was at his constituency Bisauli. 1522. As per Bhairav Prasad Maurya (DW-9) he was related to one
 of the contestants of BSP party whom he was supporting and
 at the same time, taking care of the election process. Vikas
 Yadav had also contested election from the Bisauli
 constituency in District Budaun voting for which had taken
 place on 14th February, 2002 and counting was scheduled on
 24th February, 2002. 1523. As per DW - 9, the then SDM Mahender had invited the
 candidates on 19th February, 2002 to the SDM office
 complex to furnish the list of their respective agents to be
 present at the time of counting. DW-9 had visited the said
 complex for the purpose when Arvind, a dummy candidate
 of Vikas Yadav was also present. An altercation had taken
 place between the supporters of Vikas Yadav and Gaindalal
 Maurya whom the witness was supporting, because they had
 objected to the provision of an agent to Arvind (Vikas's
 dummy candidate) even though he had withdrawn in favour).
 Vikas Yadav was stated to be present there at that time with
 some others. The dispute was resolved around 02.00 p.m.

1524. In cross-examination, the witness confirmed that a form was
 required to be filled in by the candidate, which was handed
 over to the SDM for appointing of the counting agent and
 that Vikas Yadav had not filled any form in his presence.
 No report was lodged with the police nor message was sent
 to the Election Commission by the witness or any other
 person about the incident. No documentary evidence of the
 altercation or the compromise which is claimed to have been
 reached has been produced. 1525. Interestingly, DW - 9 states that though he reads newspapers
 but he did not read the newspaper or watched television from
 17th to 19th February, 2002 since he was busy in elections. The witness knew Shri D.P. Yadav, father of the accused and
 could identify him. 1526. It is in evidence that prior information had already been sent
 by P.S. Kavi Nagar, Ghaziabad to the P.S. Bisauli that the
 accused Vikas Yadav was involved in the commission of the
 offences in the present case for which he was wanted and
 that on 19th February, 2002, and that the Bisauli police was
 already searching for Vikas Yadav. Therefore, if Vikas
 Yadav had actually visited Bisauli on the 19th, he would have
 been arrested by the P.S. Bisauli. 1527. The defence further examined DW-17, Sandeep Mishra, an
 advocate from village Sirtaul, district Badaun who stated that
 during the elections in 2002 he was Vikas Yadav's legal
 advisor; that Vikas Yadav met him at about 09.00 a.m. on
 19th February, 2002 in the election office at Bisauli as
 counting agents were to be appointed. The meeting in the
 SDM's office for this purpose was scheduled at 1.00 p.m. on
 that date. The witness stated that at around 10.45 a.m.,
 Vikas Yadav had told him that he had lost the bag which
 contained photographs of his agent etc. and that he had
 accompanied Vikas Yadav for lodging a complaint with the
 P.S. Faizganj Behata in this regard. A written complaint
 (Ex. DW-17/A) in this regard written by somebody else but
 signed by Vikas Yadav, was also given. 1528. In cross-examination, the witness stated that there was a
 police station at Bisauli also known as PS Bisauli. The
 complaint Ex. DW 17/A contains signatures in hindi. The
 witness denied the suggestion that Vikas Yadav signed only
 in English or that DW-17/A was not signed by him. No FIR
 was registered based on the complaint. 1529. DW-17 further admitted that he was associated with Sh.A.K.
 Sharma, Senior Advocate in the year 2004 during the Lok
 Sabha elections when Shri D.P. Yadav was involved in 1 or
 2 criminal cases and had represented Shri D.P. Yadav in the
 criminal proceedings. DW-17 denied the suggestion that he
 has given false deposition in favour of the accused as he was
 a lawyer for his father. 1530. DW-17 Sandeep Misra has admitted that there was over- writing in the date in Ex.DW-17/A. There was also over-
 writing as regards the ―month‖ of the receipt of the
 complaint. The court has noted that initially the number ‗1'
 for the month of January was mentioned which has been
 converted into ‗2' for the month of February. The complaint
 is not diarized. DW-17 also admitted that in the complaint
 Ex.DW-17/A, there was no date below the signature
 purporting to be that of Vikas Yadav. He had also not given
 any residential address. 1531. The complaint Ex. DW-17/A bears only a date and does not
 bear any kind of registration number or time. This document
 also sees the light of the day for the first time in the
 testimony of DW-17 recorded on 20th August 2007. It was
 not put to any authority or before any court. 1532. This witness did not give any application in writing to the
 SDM on 19th February, 2002. No attendance of the persons
 who attended the office of the SDM was marked. 1533. The prosecution witnesses including the investigating officer
 have not been cross-examined on this aspect at all and no
 suggestion in terms of the testimony of DW-17 has been put
 to them. 1534. To support his plea of ignorance about the present crime, the
 witness stated that he had not read the newspaper or watched
 the television since 17th February, 2002 nor had knowledge
 about the information given on 19th February, 2002 by PS
 Kavi Nagar to PS Bisauli that Vikas Yadav and Vishal
 Yadav are wanted in a case. 1535. If the complaint had been given to the police, Vikas Yadav
 would have been arrested in Bisauli. Both DW 9 and DW 17
 are known to the father of Vikas Yadav.There is thus
 substance in the challenge to the authenticity of the seal
 appearing on Ex.DW-17/A as well as the presence of Vikas Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 830 Yadav and DW-17 on the 19th either in Bisauli or at the
 SDM's office. 1536. In his statement under Section 313, Vikas Yadav does not
 explain where he spent the night of 17th/18th February, 2002
 or the 18th and 19th of February 2002. Vikas Yadav has
 made no disclosure in his statement recorded under Section
 313 of the Cr.P.C. in terms of the testimony of DW 9 and 17. 1537. Ex.DW17/A did not see the light of the day since 19th
 February, 2002 till the examination of DW 17 on 20th
 August, 2007 in the court. The complaint does not disclose
 any address of Vikas Yadav where the bag, if actually lost
 and recovered could be delivered. 1538. The alleged police complaint has also rightly not been found
 credible by the learned Trial Judge. All these circumstances
 support the prosecution submission that the testimony of
 DW-17 is also an afterthought and not to be relied. (vi) Defence plea that Vikas Yadav reached Allahabad on the
 20th where Vishal joined him on the 21st of February 2002
 to take legal advice

1539. DW-12 Shri Arvind Mishra and DW-19, Shri Jai Singh have
 been examined to establish that on 21st February, 2002 Vikas
 and Vishal Yadav were in Allahabad. The defence has
 thereafter sought to establish a case that Vikas Yadav met
 Shri Arvind Mishra, Advocate DW - 12 on 20th February, Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 831 2002 at Allahabad. On 21st of February, 2002, he took Vikas
 and Vishal Yadav to the house of Shri A.D. Giri Senior
 Advocate. He advised them to surrender before the court.
 DW 19 Shri Jai Singh, Advocate deposes on the same lines
 with regard to the advice of Shri Giri, Senior Advocate. As
 per the defence, Vikas and Vishal Yadav were returning by
 train to Ghaziabad when they were arrested at the Dabra
 Railway Station, Distt. Gwalior at 04:30 a.m. on the 23rd of
 February 2002. 1540. The evidence of DW-12, Sh.Arvind Mishra, an Advocate
 practicing at the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad was
 recorded on 31st July, 2007. DW-12 stated that he already
 knew Vikas Yadav as he had met him in connection with a
 case pending against him in that court. He met the accused
 on the 20th of February 2002 between 8:00 and 9:00 am for
 about 10-20 minutes when leaving for his office in relation
 to the present case. Thereafter on 21st February, 2002 both
 Vikas Yadav and Vishal Yadav met him and told him about
 the case which had been fabricated against them. DW-12
 testified that he had advised them to surrender before the
 concerned court and also to meet Sh. A.D. Giri, Senior
 Advocate of the High Court at Allahabad. In the cross-examination, the witness denied any
 acquaintance with Vikas Yadav prior to February, 2002. He
 stated that he knew Shri D.P. Yadav, that since on TV he had Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 832 seen the news that Vikas Yadav was his son; he recognized
 him. DW-12 also submitted that he had learnt about the
 present case before 20th February, 2002 through the media.
 He also stated that he had not charged any consultation fee.
 The witness had no record of the visit. 1541. On the 21st February, 2002, DW-12 Shri Arvind Mishra
 stated that, Vikas Yadav and Vishal Yadav had come to his
 residence for 10-12 minutes at about 08.00 a.m. where they
 stayed for about 10-12 minutes. They had proceeded to the
 house of Sh.A.D. Giri between 08.30 to 08.40 a.m. when
 Sh.Jai Singh, Advocate had met them on the way. Sh.A.D.
 Giri had met them on 21st February, 2002 who also advised
 them to surrender before the concerned court. The witness
 has also stated that Sh.Jai Singh, Advocate was with him at
 that time. 1542. It is stated that Sh. A. D. Giri also did not charge any
 consultation fee for meeting of about 15-20 minutes. No
 record of this meeting with Sh.A.D. Giri, senior advocate has
 been produced. 1543. We also find reference to proceedings filed by the appellants
 under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C. in the High Court and a bail
 application. It is in the cross-examination of DW-12 Shri
 Arvind Mishra that Sh.Prem Prakash, Advocate, practising Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 833 in Allahabad High Court, was his senior. The witness also
 claimed to be an associate of Sh.J.S. Senger. 1544. DW 12 has stated that his Senior Shri Prem Prakash,
 Advocate had moved proceedings under Section 482 of the
 Cr.P.C. on behalf of the accused persons in the present case
 before the High Court. The bail application of the accused
 persons and the same was moved on their behalf by Sh.J.S.
 Senger, Advocate which was later argued by late Sh.A.D.
 Giri, Senior Advocate. DW 12 was therefore working with
 Shri Prem Prakash, counsel for Vikas and Vishal Yadav. He
 named only counsel conducting their cases. He denied the
 prosecution suggestion that the accused persons did not meet
 him for which reason he was unable to produce any record
 with regard to the meetings. 1545. We may now examine the testimony of DW-19, Jai Singh
 also an advocate practicing at Allahabad. He does not
 disclose as to how he knows Vikas Yadav and Vishal Yadav.
 So far as the 21st of February, 2002 is concerned, he refers to
 it as a chance meeting with them while they were going to
 the house of Sh.A.D. Giri, senior advocate when he was
 coming out of it who had advised them that they would not
 get any relief from the Allahabad High Court and that they
 should surrender before the concerned court. In his cross-examination, the witness admits that he was a
 member of the Legislative Assembly in the year 1989 during
 which period Shri D.P. Yadav, father of Vikas Yadav was
 also a member of the Legislative Assembly. As per DW-19,
 the accused persons were introduced to him by DW-12
 Sh.Arvind Kumar Mishra. The witness denied the
 suggestion that he had given false testimony being a friend
 of Shri D.P. Yadav to save the accused persons. 1546. From their testimony, it is established that DW-12 Shri
 Arvind Kumar Mishra, Advocate and DW-19 Shri Jai Singh,
 Advocate are associated with or known to Shri D.P. Yadav
 and have therefore testified in court. 1547. The appellants Vikas and Vishal Yadav have claimed that
 they were returning to Ghaziabad by train. There would be
 some documentary evidence of their travel to and fro, board
 and lodgings at Allahabad and related documents which
 ought to be in their power and possession. The two
 appellants do not even disclose the names of the train(s) by
 which they travelled, let alone any proof of their having
 undertaken the journeys at all or of their hotel stay and
 related expenditure. Neither of the accused persons disclose
 the mode of their travel from Ghaziabad to Allahabad. No
 documentary proof in the nature of tickets etc. have been
 placed. 1548. The oral testimony of DW-12 Shri Arvind Mishra and DW- 19 Shri Jai Singh is pitched against the documentary
 evidence of two applications filed by the two accused
 persons Vikas and Vishal Yadav before the CJM, Ghaziabad
 during the same period. Our attention is drawn to an
 application dated 21st February, 2002 (Ex. DW-6/1) moved
 by Shri Neeraj Gautam, Advocate (DW 6) in the court of the
 Chief Judicial Magistrate, Ghaziabad. This application was
 filed under the signatures of Vishal Yadav as well as Vikas
 Yadav. A plea was taken therein that the police station Kavi
 Nagar was harassing the two applicants even though they
 had not committed any offence. A prayer was made that a
 report be called by the court as to whether any case had been
 registered against the two applicants. On this application,
 the learned CJM directed that a report be called from the SO,
 Kavi Nagar on 22nd February, 2002. A report dated 22nd
 February, 2002 was submitted by PS Kavi Nagar to the
 effect that the applicants were wanted in Crime No.192/2002
 under Section 364 , IPC (Ex. DW-6/3). 1549. Fully aware of the police case against them, on 22nd
 February, 2002, Vishal Yadav and Vikas Yadav moved a
 second application before the CJM, Ghaziabad (Ex. DW-6/7)
 stating that the applicants were ill for which reason they
 were unable to remain present in the court. In these Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 836 circumstances, the applicants prayed for an adjournment of
 three days. 1550. The above applications were filed jointly by Vikas Yadav
 and Vishal Yadav manifesting that they were together in
 Ghaziabad and unwell. They were certainly not in
 Allahabad. 1551. The defence also examined Sh.Neeraj Gautam as DW-6, an
 advocate practicing in the Ghaziabad courts. He has claimed
 to have moved the applications (DW-6/1) at the instance of
 Shri Rajinder Yadav (a cousin of Vikas Yadav) without
 telling Vikas or Vishal Yadav before moving this
 application. 1552. It is pointed out that the applications are not in the
 handwriting of DW-6 but in the handwriting of one Shailesh
 Sharma, Advocate. The witness admitted that the
 application dated 22nd February, 2002 did not mention any
 intention on the part of the accused persons to surrender. 1553. We find that the applications are signed by Vikas and Vishal
 Yadav who do not deny their signatures on the application
 (DW-6/1 and 6/7). 1554. DW-6 - a practicing advocate was oblivious of the fact that
 by then the proceedings under Section 82 / 83 of the Cr.P.C.
 stood initiated by the same court against the accused Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 837 persons. Warrants of arrest were pending against them. He
 could give neither the date when the accused persons were
 arrested nor when they were produced in court. He never
 met the accused persons before 24th February, 2002. 1555. In his cross-examination, he categorically admitted that he
 could not say where were the accused persons during the
 period between 17th and 24th February, 2002. 1556. Our attention has been drawn to the fact that no suggestion
 was put to the investigating officer that the accused persons
 were not absconding and were in their residences or
 undertaking their regular work or that they were at
 Allahabad. Further the evidence of the investigating officer
 about his repeated visits to the residences of the accused
 persons and other places which they frequently visited and
 their non-availability at these places is unchallenged. 1557. We are informed that Allahabad and Ghaziabad are
 separated by more than 600 kms. It is also impossible for
 one person to be in these two places at the same time. The
 applicants filed two applications under their signatures at
 Ghaziabad on the 21st and 22nd of February 2002. These
 appellants therefore could not have been at Allahabad during
 this period. In the light of the above discussion, we have no
 hesitation in rejecting the case of Vikas and Vishal Yadav
 that they had gone to Allahabad. (vii) Train journey from Allahabad

1558. We may also examine the evidence with regard to the travel
 of the appellants from Allahabad. 1559. So far as the exact geographical positioning of Dabra is
 concerned, as per the rail line map placed by Mr. P.K. Dey,
 learned counsel for the complainant, coming north from Bina
 Jn. towards Agra Cantt. (then on to Delhi), Dabra falls
 between the Jhansi Jn. and Gwalior Jn. 1560. Mr. Dey points out that Gomati Express runs between
 Lucknow and Delhi and not between Allahabad and Delhi.
 It is also pointed out that Allahabad falls on the Delhi-
 Howrah rail route. Dabra however is located between Jhansi
 and Gwalior on the train line between Delhi-Chennai.
 Therefore, Allahabad and Dabra are in completely opposite
 directions in the context of Delhi. 1561. With regard to their movement from Allahabad in his
 statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C. in answer to the
 question No. 217, Vishal Yadav has stated as follows: - 1562. As against this claim made by Vishal Yadav, Vikas Yadav
 makes a completely different claim. At the end of the
 recording of the statement under Section 313 of the Cr.P.C.,
 the court asked Vikas Yadav as to whether he wanted to say
 anything else. With regard to their movement from
 Allahabad is concerned, at point 238, Vikas Yadav has stated
 as follows: - 1569. The prosecution has examined PW-29, Constable Brij
 Mohan Mishra from Police Line, Gwalior, MP who stated
 that in February, 2002 he was posted at PS Dabra. On 23rd
 February, 2002 while on patrolling duty at 03.00 a.m., he
 was asked by Inspector Ashok Singh Bhadoria the town
 Inspector in PS Dabra, to accompany the police team for
 checking at the railway station. While checking near the
 maalgodam adjoining the railway station, the two accused
 persons (Vikas Yadav and Vishal Yadav) present in court
 were apprehended by this police team. Initially these two
 persons gave their names as Raj Kumar and Sushil Kumar to
 the police. In answer to the court question as to why these
 persons were arrested, the witness stated that they were
 arrested because the two persons ran away from the
 maalgodam and the police had suspicion on them. On their
 personal search, six cartridges of .38 bore were recovered
 from the accused Vikas Yadav and four cartridges from the
 accused Vishal Yadav. The accused persons gave their
 correct names whey they were interrogated before recovery.
 The accused persons were apprehended at about 04.20 a.m. Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 842 in the presence of two public witnesses, Lallu @ Hoshiar
 and Shehzad. 1570. Mr. Dey has argued that as per Vishal Yadav, they got down
 from the train to have refreshments. The accused persons
 were not arrested from the railway station but from the
 maalgodam. It is unbelievable that anybody would get
 down at a small railway station as Dabra, that too at 04.00
 a.m., for refreshments. It is even more improbable that
 anybody would get down for refreshments from the train and
 move towards maalgodam which, as per the arresting police,
 was beyond the railway station, if they were to continue on
 any train towards Delhi. 1571. Our attention has been drawn by Mr. Dey to the rail route
 which shows that if the accused persons had really boarded
 the train at Kanpur, the train would have first stopped at
 Jhansi before moving to Dabra. It is pointed out that Jhansi
 is a big junction and any prudent person would take
 refreshment at Jhansi and not wait to reach Dabra, a small
 station. 1572. We find that a suggestion was put to PW-29, Constable Brij
 Mohan Mishra (Dabra) on behalf of the accused persons that
 the Maha Kaushal Express train had reached the railway
 station, which he admitted. Mr. P.K. Dey, learned counsel
 for the complainant has pointed out that Maha Kaushal Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 843 Express runs between Delhi and Jabalpur via Jhansi and
 Gwalior. It is submitted that there was no train running
 between Kanpur and Delhi at the station and that this fact
 goes a long way in demolishing the plea that they were
 arrested when they were returning from Allahabad in the
 manner stated. 1573. Learned counsel has placed before us the Indian Railway
 time table for the year 2001-2002. Anticipating an objection
 with regard to the permissibility of this court looking at the
 railway time table for the relevant period in 2002, Mr. P.K.
 Dey has drawn our attention to Sections 56 and 57 of the
 Indian Evidence Act, 1872. Section 56 mandates that no fact
 on which the court will take judicial notice needs to be
 proved. Section 57 of the Act set out the facts of which the
 court must take judicial notice. As sub-section (1), the court
 is permitted to take judicial notice of "all laws in force in the
 territory of India‖. By virtue of sub-section (13) of Section
 57 , the court is enabled to take judicial notice of ―the rule of
 the road of land or at sea‖. The statute further stipulates that
 in all these cases, the court may resort for its aid to
 appropriate books or documents of reference. It is further
 stipulated that if the court is called upon by any person to
 take judicial notice of any fact, it may refuse to do so, unless
 and until such fact is produced in such book or document as
 it may consider necessary to enable it to do so. 1574. Mr. P.K. Dey has also drawn strength from the 7th Schedule
 of List I of the Constitution of India. It is pointed out that
 under Item 22 of the List I of the Constitution of India, the
 subject of railways has been placed in the Union List.
 Therefore, by virtue of Article 246 (1) of the Constitution of
 India, only the Parliament has exclusive legislative power
 over the railways. It is urged that Article 13 of the
 Constitution renders void all such laws which are
 inconsistent with or in derogation of the fundamental rights
 and that under sub-clause (3a) the expression ―law‖ in Article 13 includes any ordinance, order, by-law, rule,
 regulation, notification, custom or usage having in the
 territory of India the force of law. 1575. So far as the Indian Railways are concerned, it is pointed out
 that the Indian Railways Act, 1890 was the first legislation
 of the kind to govern the law relating to railways which was
 amended from time to time to give effect to the several
 changes in the railway system. As a need was felt by the
 Government of India to replace this Act by a new legislation,
 the Railways Bill was introduced in the Lok Sabha on 25th
 April, 1986 and the motion for reference to the Joint
 Committee Report was made on 5th November, 1986. The
 Railway Bill was passed by both the Houses of the
 Parliament and received the assent of the President of India Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 845 on 3rd June, 1989. It came into force on 1st July, 1990 as the Railways Act, 1989 Act (24 of 1989). 1576. Under Section 49 of the Railways Act, 1989, there is a
 statutory mandate to cause to be pasted in a conspicuous and
 accessible place at every railway station in Hindi and
 English and also in the regional language commonly in use
 in the area where the station situated, the table of times of
 arrival and departure of trains which carry passengers and
 staff at that station. It is further required that at every station
 where tickets are issued to passengers, a copy of the time
 table in force shall be kept in the office of the station master. 1577. Mr. P.K. Dey, learned counsel for the complainant has
 contended that given the mandate of Section 49 of the
 Railways Act, 1989, the railway time table issued by the
 railway authorities is statutory in nature. It is contended that
 this being the position, this court would take judicial notice
 under Section 57(1) and (13), of the train timings, as are
 contained in the railway time table for the year 2002 which
 was issued by the railway administration and has been
 placed on behalf of the complainant before us. 1578. We may point out that the railway time table has been placed
 before this court in support of the submission that the plea of
 alibi set up by the appellants deserve to be disbelieved. It is
 established therefrom that the Gomti Express runs between Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 846 Lucknow and Delhi and not between Allahabad and Delhi.
 Vishal Yadav has therefore made a false statement under Section 313 of the Cr.P.C. that they were travelling on the
 Gomti Express. 1579. The time table also discloses that there was a direct main line
 train route being Delh-Allahabad-Howrah (Kolkata). Dabra
 was on the Delhi-Bhopal-Chennai train route. The
 contention of the appellants, Vishal Yadav and Vikas Yadav
 that they reached Dabra by train from Allahabad in the early
 hours of 23rd February, 2002 is completely falsified in view
 of the schedule of trains which pass through Dabra. 1580. PW-35 SI Anil Somania stated that on 23rd February, 2002
 while he was in PS Kavi Nagar, that he learnt from the TV
 news footage that Vikas and Vishal have been arrested in
 Dabra, MP. He talked to the concerned SSP informing him
 about the news. The SSP telephonically confirmed the news
 of the arrest of the accused persons at Dabra and directed
 PW-35 to proceed to Dabra. PW-35 made DD Entry No.20
 (Exh.PW-35/10) which was signed by him in the General
 Diary dated 23rd February, 2002 at 12.25 p.m. In the police
 party, which proceeded to Dabra, PW-35 had joined SI J.K.
 Gangwar and a few constables. The police party proceeded
 to Dabra by a private vehicle, reaching PS Dabra (District
 Gwalior) at 11 p.m. Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 847 1581. We have noted the manipulation by Vikas and Vishal Yadav
 even thereafter and how they successfully delayed their
 being produced before the court after their arrest in the early
 morning. It is in evidence that though arrested in the early
 hourse of 23rd of February, 2002, they were produced only at
 11:00 pm. The proceedings before the court in Dabra noted
 by us above also show how they delayed their custody being
 handed over to the Ghaziabad police. There can be no doubt
 at all that Vikas and Vishal Yadav effectively utilized the
 shield of the Dabra proceedings to cause impediment and
 delay investigation in the present case. All these point to
 only one inference which is that they wielded influence in
 Dabra and therefore chose Dabra for their arrest. The
 appellants were not arrested from the railway station. We therefore find substance in the submission of the State
 that the accused persons did not travel to Dabra from
 Allahabad and that they stage managed their arrests from
 outside the maalgodown at Dabra. In the light of the above discussion, we see no reason to
 differ with the findings of the learned trial judges that the
 accused persons were actually absconding. XV Abscondance of Sukhdev Yadav @ Pehalwan and his
 arrest on 23rd February, 2005

1582. We may now examine the case of abscondance by the
 appellant Sukhdev Yadav @ Pehalwan. Mr. Kapoor, ld.
 counsel for Sukhdev @ Pehalwan has contended that the
 prosecution case that Sukhdev @ Pehalwan had
 abscondeded after the commission of murder, is false and
 that this appellant has adequately established that he was
 peacefully living in his village and discharging normal
 functions at the time of the crime and thereafter. 1583. The name of Sukhdev Yadav @ Pehalwan as being involved
 in the crime first surfaced in the statements of Vikas Yadav
 and Vishal Yadav recorded under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C.
 recorded on 25th February, 2002 by the Investigating Officer
 Anil Somania. However, they referred to him merely as
 ‗Pehalwan'. 1584. As per Anil Somania, IO, PS Ghaziabad (who testified as
 PW-22 in Sukhdev Pehalwan's trial), the statement of Bharti
 Yadav (Exh.PW-35/AB) was recorded under Section 161 on
 2nd March, 2002 in the presence of her father as well as lady
 officer Anju Bhaduria. In this statement, Bharti Yadav thus
 revealed the real name of Pehalwan (referred to by Vikas and
 Vishal Yadav) who was present with her brothers in the
 wedding on the night intervening 16th / 17th February, 2002. Bharti Yadav explained that she knew Sukhdev @ Pehalwan
 as he had worked in their liquor business at Bulandshahr
 ("humare Bulandsheher sharab karyalaya mein kaam karata
 hai"). 1585. Sukhdev @ Pehalwan was also referred to by Ajay Kumar
 (PW-14 in Sukhdev Yadav's trial) in his statement dated 18th
 March, 2002 recorded under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. by
 IO Anil Somania. 1586. Consequently a trap was laid on 3rd March, 2002 by
 Investigating Officer Anil Somania to apprehend Sukhdev @
 Pehalwan in Bulandshahr. The police were unable to
 apprehend him physically but were able to lay their hands on
 a guarantee card, which bore his photograph as well as
 complete address (Ex. PW-22/A1). This is how the police
 could get the complete particulars of this appellant. 1587. It is in evidence that despite several efforts which include
 formation of a separate police team for apprehension and
 arrest of Sukhdev Pehalwan, the police were unsuccessful.
 Several places including his native village were raided
 despite arrest warrants obtained from the concerned court but
 he could not be apprehended. 1588. The SSP, Ghaziabad on 25th March, 2002 declared a reward
 of Rs.5,000/- for the arrest of Sukhdev @ Pehalwan . The Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 850 reward was enhanced to Rs. 25,000/- by IG/DG, Meerut for
 information about the arrest of Sukhdev Yadav @ Pehalwan. 1589. The proclamation of the reward was published in the
 newspaper with photographs of Sukhdev @ Pehalwan and
 television telecasts were also taken out. All efforts were to
 no avail. 1590. On 4th March, 2002, non-bailable warrants for the arrest of
 Sukhdev @ Pehalwan were issued by the concerned court
 and SI Mukesh Tomar went to his native village to execute
 the same. Yet Sukhdev @ Pehalwan successfully avoided
 arrest. 1591. On 31st March, 2002, the police got Sukhdev @ Pehalwan
 declared a proclaimed offender. He did not surface for three
 years thereafter. 1592. In the year 2002, Anil Somania got Sukhdev Pehalwan's
 double barrel gun licence cancelled. Even this did not secure
 his custody. 1593. The next chronological reference in the record of Sukhdev
 @ Pehalwan is to be found in the evidence of PW-20, SI Ajit
 Kumar Mishra who testified that on 23rd February, 2005
 while posted as SI in PS Patcherawa, District Kushi Nagar,
 UP, he was on patrol duty along with five constables leading
 towards village Vanvera from the side of village Karjaha. At Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 851 about 1.30 am, when the police party was near Rudelpur
 Tiraha, Village Sarai Patti, it spotted a person in the
 headlights of the jeep. The police party stopped him and
 enquired about his particulars but this person suddenly shot
 at the police party and started running towards the west side
 of the tiraha. Despite the police party disclosing its identity
 and calling upon him to surrender, this person did not stop.
 In the meantime, he fired another shot upon the police. The
 police party chased him for about 40-45 paces and could
 overpower him only when this person was trying to re-load
 his pistol. It was after apprehending this person that his
 identity was revealed to the police party as Sukhdev Yadav
 @ Pehalwan, son of Shri Vishawnath Yadav, resident of
 Tarnbagla, Kumeha, PS Patherwa, District Kushi Nagar, UP. 1594. Upon his search, the police recovered from Sukhdev Yadav
 @ Pehalwan one country made pistol of .315 bore from his
 right hand and two live cartridges from the pocket of his
 pants. One unused cartridge was recovered from the country
 made pistol while one used cartridge was found from the
 spot. 1595. PW-20 refers to the disclosure made by this person about his
 implication in the abduction and murder of Nitish Katara in
 the night intervening 16th / 17th February, 2002. It appears
 that with regard to this incident on the 11 th of February 2005,
 FIR No. 56/2005 was registered under Section 307 IPC / 7 of Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 852 the Criminal Law (Amendment) Act and FIR No. 57/2005
 was also registered under the Arms Act in which cases
 Sukhdev @ Pehalwan was arrested. As on 21st April, 2008
 when the testimony of this witness was recorded, the cases
 arising out of these FIR were pending in the concerned court
 at Kushi Nagar, UP. 1596. PW-20 SI Ajit Kumar Mishra identified Sukhdev Yadav @
 Pehalwan present in court as the person whom and the police
 party arrested on 23rd February, 2005 in the above
 circumstances. The witness denied all suggestions that the
 accused person had met him physically several times in the
 village between 2002 and 11th February, 2005. 1597. The prosecution also examined SI Umakant Pandey as PW- 21 in Sukhdev Yadav's trial who has investigated the above
 cases being Crime No.56/2005 and 57/2005. He stated that
 during the course of the investigation he learnt that Sukhdev
 @ Pehalwan was a proclaimed offender of PS Kavi Nagar,
 Ghaziabad and the Ghaziabad police was accordingly
 informed about the accused. This witness denied the
 suggestion that Sukhdev @ Pehalwan was not arrested in the
 manner stated but picked up from his residence in the village
 or that he was available at his residence at all material time. 1598. Inspector Anil Somania, PW-22 corroborates the testimony
 of PW-21 and testified that he had received a FAX message Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 853 (Exh.PW-22/A2) as well as a telephone call from the
 Devariya SO's office that Sukhdev Yadav had been arrested.
 Anil Somania, therefore, took steps to produce him before
 the CJM, Ghaziabad for obtaining the production warrant
 (Exh.PW-22/A3). This witness also denied the suggestion
 that he had not made any effort on 2nd or 3rd March, 2002 to
 arrest Sukhdev Pehalwan. He also categorically denied that
 Sukhdev Pehalwan, since 2002 and until his arrest in 2005,
 was residing in his village in District Devariya. 1599. In his statement under Section 313 of the Cr.P.C., Sukhdev
 @ Pehalwan has stated that on the night intervening 16th /
 17th February, 2002 and thereafter he was in his native
 village and that this fact was known to the police. He simply
 denied all other facts relating to his having absconded. In
 answer to question No.1 relating to whether he was working
 in the liquor vend of Shri D.P. Yadav on or before 16 th
 February, 2002 at Bulandshahr, UP, Sukhdev Yadav
 admitted that it was correct that he was earlier working in a
 liquor vend in Bulandshahr. 1600. We may also note the defence evidence led by Sukhdev
 Pehalwan. He has examined one Shri Keshwar Singh,
 Pradhan of village Tamuwa as DW-1 who has tried to make
 out a case that Sukhdev Yadav @ Pehalwan was a wrestler
 by profession and that from 2002-2005 used to be there in
 the village. In cross-examination, he stated that prior to Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 854 2002, Sukhdev @ Pehalwan was a wrestler in the area and
 not engaged in any avocation. This stand of the witness is
 clearly contrary to the statement of Sukhdev Yadav under Section 313 Cr.P.C. noted above who has stated that he was
 working in a liquor vend prior to 16th February, 2002. 1601. DW-1 Keshwar Singh further contradicts himself in his
 cross-examination when he admits that attachment warrants
 in respect of Sukhdev @ Pehalwan were executed in the
 village in 2002-2003 and he had learnt that they were
 concerning a case from Ghaziabad. The witness also
 submitted that on the day of execution of attachment
 warrant, Sukhdev @ Pehalwan was not present in the house.
 The witness also admitted that on the day of execution of the
 attachment warrants, he came to know that Sukhdev @
 Pehalwan was allegedly involved in the murder of a person
 and that Vikas and Vishal Yadav were the other accused
 involved in the same offence. This witness stated that even
 after the attachment warrant, he never came to Ghaziabad or
 Delhi to contact Sukhdev Yadav nor made any effort to
 inform the SSP, Kushi Nagar or the concerned court in the
 area, that Sukhdev Yadav was available or had been in the
 village. These admissions by DW-1 in his cross-examination
 completely demolish his testimony to the effect that Sukhdev
 @ Pehalwan was residing in the native village between
 2002-2005. 1602. The prosecution on the other hand has established the
 concerted effort made by the police to trace out Sukhdev @
 Pehalwan who was not traceable at all his known addresses
 and despite the wide publicity given to the same. Issuance
 of non-bailable warrants, warrants of attachment,
 announcement of rewards for information about him did not
 result in apprehension of Sukhdev Yadav @ Pehalwan and
 he was finally was declared a proclaimed offender by the
 trial court on 31st March, 2002. For all these reasons, we are
 satisfied that the trial court has rightly concluded that
 Sukhdev @ Pehalwan was absconding till he was arrested. 1603. We also find that this abscondance is part of a design. Having compelled the court to proceed with the trial of
 Vikas and Vishal Yadav in the absence of their accomplice,
 by the 23rd of February 2005 when Sukhdev Yadav was
 arrested, evidence of thirty seven prosecution witnesses (out
 of a total of forty three) stood completed in that trial. Many
 of the witnesses who had been already examined, had to be
 recalled in Sukhdev's trial. It appears that the calculated
 attempt was to pressurise and exhaust witnesses; take
 advantage of memory fading by passage of time and
 resultant omissions and contradictions; orchestrated
 deviations; loss of evidence by non-availability of witnesses
 at the second trial. By his conduct, the appellant has not Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 856 only violated statutory provisions but has obstructed the due
 course of justice and expedition in the trial. 1604. It is trite that mere abscondance per se after commission of
 an offence of which such person may not be the author, may
 not by itself be sufficient to draw an adverse inference
 against him as it would go against the presumption of
 innocence of all persons. It is accepted that people may run
 away upon being suspected of involvement in a crime out of
 fear of police arrest. However, if other incriminating
 circumstances are present, then abscondance would be
 considered, as relevant conduct or circumstance to draw an
 inference of guilt. we shall now consider the legal effect of
 this abscondance in the facts of the present case. XVI What is the legal impact of this abscondance? 1605. Learned counsels for the defence have submitted that the
 appellants were not absconding and that, in any case,
 abscondance is not a relevant circumstance while
 considering as to whether the prosecution had established an
 unbroken chain of evidence which unerringly points towards
 the guilt of the appellants. 1606. Placing reliance on the pronouncement of the Supreme Court
 in (2010) 6 SCC 1, Sidhartha Vashisht alias Manu Sharma
 v. State (NCT of Delhi ), it has been argued by Mr. Dayan
 Krishnan, additional standing counsel that it is a settled legal Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 857 position that abscondance is not merely relevant conduct but
 is also a circumstance which cannot be ignored. In this
 regard, in Siddhartha Vashisht (supra), the Supreme Court
 had observed as follows:- State of Bombay, AIR 1960 SC 500 : 1960 Cri
 LJ 682 (AIR pp. 523 and 526-527, paras 68 and 76) Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 858 ―68. Circumstantial evidence in this
 context means a combination of facts
 creating a network through which there is
 no escape for the accused, because the
 facts taken as a whole do not admit of any
 inference but of his guilt. * * * * 76. ... This conduct of the accused was
 so knit together as to make a network of
 circumstances pointing only to his guilt.
 ...His method was his own undoing; because even the long arm of coincidence
 could not explain the multitude of
 circumstances against him, and they
 destroy the presumption of innocence
 with which law clothed him.‖ 233. Thus, it has been proved beyond
 reasonable doubt that accused Manu Sharma
 absconded after the incident which is a very
 relevant conduct under Section 8 of the
 Evidence Act.‖

 (Emphasis by us)

1607. Our attention has also been drawn to a judgment relied upon
 on behalf of Vishal Yadav reported at (2011) 11 SCC 754,
 S.K. Yusuf v. State of West Bengal where in para 31 it has
 been held as follows: - 1609. The discussion by the Supreme Court and the principles laid
 down in the judgment reported at AIR 2012 Supreme Court Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 860 3539 , Shyamal Ghosh v. State of West Bengal are
 extremely topical and apply with full force to the present
 case. In para 41 of the report, the court held as follows: - 1620. It has also been urged before us that the appellants have
 failed to render any reasonable explanation with regard to
 the incriminating circumstances which were established in
 the evidence against them. In this regard, Mr. P.K. Dey,
 learned counsel for the complainant has placed reliance on
 the pronouncement of the Supreme Court reported at (2010)
 1 SCC 199, Jayabalan v. UT of Pondicherry, wherein the
 failure of the appellant to afford a reasonable explanation for
 the presence of several burnt match sticks in the middle of
 the bathroom was held to ‗fortify' the court‟s conviction that
 ―the match stick was used for the purpose of burning the
 deceased‖. 1621. On the other hand, placing reliance on the judgment reported
 at ( 2010) 11 SCC 423 Nanhar and Ors. v. State of
 Haryana , learned counsel for the appellant has urged that a
 false defence is not a circumstance which can be used by the
 prosecution. This case did raise any question of evaluation of
 defence or the impact of defence found false on a
 prosecution case. The judgment is concerned with the
 principles governing circumstancial evidence and its
 evaluation. There can be no dispute with the principles Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 867 discussed and laid down. We shall assess the proven
 circumstances in light thereof. 1622. The prosecution in the present case rests its case on
 circumstantial evidence. The accused persons have offered
 false answers and explanations in their examination under Section 313 of the Cr.P.C. as against established facts. In
 the light of the above noted well settled legal principle, these
 facts have also to be taken into consideration as a linkage for
 evaluation of the chain of circumstances established by the
 prosecution. 1623. The accused persons have also failed to render any
 reasonable explanation with regard to some of the
 incriminating circumstances which stood established against
 them. Vishal Yadav has not even ventured an explanation
 for his whereabouts between 17th of February, 2002 till 21st
 of February, 2002. This omission would also give strength
 to the case of the prosecution. XVIII Vikas Yadav's interview with the press - whether
 admissible in evidence? 1624. The prosecution also led evidence in the trial of Vikas and
 Vishal Yadav of an interview given by Vikas Yadav to the
 media at Ghaziabad on 25th of February, 2002 in which there
 is evidence that he had a quarrel outside the gate at the
 wedding venue. The prosecution examined Ms. Rewati Lao, Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 868 reporter correspondent of NDTV as PW-36 who had been
 working with NDTV since the 9th of September, 1996. 1625. The witness testified that on the 25 th of February, 2002, she
 had gone to the Ghaziabad court to cover the present case
 accompanied by the NDTV cameraman. Several press
 reporters were also present, one of whom asked questions of
 Vikas Yadav which were recorded by the NDTV cameraman
 in her presence. The tape recording was proved in her
 testimony on record as Ex.PW36/1. The witness testified
 that she was present on the spot when the questions were
 being asked and answers recorded in Exh PW 36/1 were
 given by Vikas Yadav and she had herself heard the
 conversation. The video tape was played in the court and the
 witness confirmed that it was a recording of the said
 conversation on the 25th of February 2002. The portion of
 her deposition setting out the exact questions put to Vikas
 Yadav and his answer may be extracted in extenso and read
 as follows: 15. In the present case, Facts (i), (iv) and (vi)
 have not been established. Firstly, the statement
 in question is not a ―confession‖ within the
 contemplation of Section 24 . It is now well
 settled that a statement in order to amount to a
 ―confession‖ must either admit in terms the
 offence, or at any rate substantially all the facts
 which constitute the offence. An admission of
 an incriminating fact, howsoever grave, is not Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 875 by itself a confession. A statement which
 contains an exculpatory assertion of some fact,
 which if true, would negative the offence
 alleged cannot amount to a confession
 (see Pakala Narayana v. R. [AIR 1939 PC 47 : wherein he unequivocally admitted that the interview was
 given by Vikas Yadav. Admittedly, the CD features Vishal
 Yadav as well. Vishal Yadav makes no complaints of any
 torture by the police. 1637. Mr. Sumeet Verma, learned counsel appearing for Vikas
 Yadav has vehemently urged that the video cassette contains
 only an edited version and not the original recording. It is
 noteworthy that PW - 36 Revati Lau while explaining the
 nature of the editing, reiterated that she has not deleted the
 portion of the tape wherein the interview of the Vikas Yadav
 was recorded. As per Ravati Lau, while editing she has not
 deleted any part of the interview but has only added still
 photographs. Neither Vikas Yadav nor Vishal Yadav
 challenged this testimony in cross-examination. Therefore
 so far as the interview of Vikas Yadav is concerned, it stands
 proved in evidence. 1638. In the press interview, Vikas Yadav had made a statement of
 a skirmish outside the gate which statement was not Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 878 confessional, but a mere admission and is therefore
 admissible in evidence. The interview and questions were
 with regard to the case in hand involving the murder of
 Nitish Katara. He has also suggested the identity of the
 person as Nitish Katara with whom there was a skirmish,
 when he refers to his not having accompanied him (Vikas) in
 the car. 1639. Mr. Dayan Krishnan learned Additional Standing Counsel
 has also urged that the statement under Section 313 of the
 Criminal Procedure Code is of value and utility even if it
 contains inculpatory statements. The principles in this
 regard were laid down in the pronouncement of the Supreme
 Court reported at ( 1998) 4 SCC 336 State of U.P. v. Lakhmi in paras 8 to 11 which read as follows:- Section (4) would amount to a legislative
 guideline for the Court to give due weight to
 such answers, though it does not mean that such
 answers could be made the sole basis of any
 finding. 10. Time and again, this Court has pointed out
 that such answers of the accused can well be
 taken into consideration in deciding whether the
 prosecution evidence can be relied on, and
 whether the accused is liable to be convicted of
 the offences charged against him; vide: Bombay and another (1974) 3 SCC 393 : 11. We make it clear that answers of the
 accused, when they contain admission of
 circumstances against him are not by
 themselves, delinked from the evidence be
 used for arriving at a finding that the
 accused had committed the offence.‖
 (emphasis by us)

1640. Mr. Sumeet Verma, Advocate has urged that the video
 recording was in the teeth of the case of the prosecution as
 the prosecution was relying on the statement of PW 19 Jai
 Prakash and PW - 31 Umesh Kumar with regard to the
 presence of the deceased outside the Diamond Palace
 banquet hall. We have noted above that these witnesses
 turned hostile and their testimony has been completely
 disregarded by the learned trial judge with which we have
 agreed. But even if the altercation outside the venue was to
 be ignored, the admission by Vikas Yadav with regard to the
 presence of the appellant outside the venue as well as Nitish
 Katara at the same time is certainly undisputed. 1641. There can be no dispute with the criticism by the Supreme
 Court to interviews to the media in para 176 of 2005( 11)
 SCC 600, State of (NCT of Delhi) v. Navjot Sandhu in the
 following circumstances: It is, therefore, urged that the learned trial judge has
 completely fallen into error in finding the appellant guilty of
 having committed the offence under Section 362 of the IPC. 1647. Mr. Ram Jethmalani has drawn our attention to Section 359 of the Indian Penal Code to urge that the accused persons
 have been wrongly charged with kidnapping Nitish Katara.
 It is urged that the offence under Section 359 is not made out
 at all. Even if the prosecution was to urge that Nitish Katara
 had been abducted by the accused persons, it was necessary
 for the prosecution to bring home the charge under Section
 362 of the IPC to lead evidence of force or use of deceitful
 means by the accused persons while they were at the
 Diamond Palace. 1648. Learned counsel has drawn our attention to the questions put
 to Vishal Yadav in his examination under Section 313 of the
 Cr.P.C. In particular, reference has been made to question Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 885 no.25, 40 and 168. It has been pointed out that while
 question nos. 25 and 40 referred to abduction, in question
 168, reference has been made to kidnapping. 1649. Mr. U.R. Lalit, learned senior counsel appearing for Vikas
 Yadav has also submitted that there is no evidence to show
 that the person who came to call Nitish while he was taking
 dinner was the accused Vishal Yadav. The reasoning of the
 trial judge is based on the assumption that Vishal Yadav
 stood identified and hence this should be disbelieved. Bharat
 Diwakar did not identify Vishal Yadav. No Test
 Identification Parade (TIP) was conducted. There was a
 gathering of 600-700 persons, none of those persons have
 been examined as a witness to prove that the said person was
 Vishal Yadav. If there is no identification then there is a
 basic flaw in the case of abduction. The burden is therefore
 on the prosecution to show that Nitish Katara was taken by
 the accused by deceitful means. 1650. The charge framed by the Addl. Sessions Judge, New Delhi
 has already been extracted by us. It refers to Nitish Katara
 being kidnapped from Diamond Place, Shastri Nagar on the
 night of 16th and 17th February, 2002 at about 12:30
 (midnight) with the intention to murder him and thereby the
 accused Vikas and Vishal Yadav along with Sukhdev @
 Pehalwan committed the offence punishable under Section
 364 read with Section 34 of the IPC. 1651. It is argued by ld. counsel for the appellants that the
 evidence collected by the prosecution shows that Nitish
 Katara was not forcibily taken into the car by the accused
 persons and that he had gone willingly with the accused
 persons in the car. It was vehemently submitted by the
 defence that since the element of force was missing, no
 offence under Section 364 of the IPC is made out. 1652. Reliance is placed on behalf of Vikas Yadav on the
 pronouncement of the Supreme Court reported at ( 1975) 3
 SCC 822, Kundan Singh v. Delhi Administration . This
 judgment was rendered on the facts of the case and does not
 lay down any absolute binding legal principle. 1653. On behalf of the appellant Sukhdev Yadav, Mr. Kapoor also
 submits that there is also no evidence to prove involvement
 of the appellant Sukhdev in the abduction of Nitish Katara.
 It is contended that the prosecution has failed to prove any
 use of force or use of deceitful means made by Sukhdev
 which are the essential ingredients to bring home the charge
 under Section 362 or Section 364 of the IPC. 1654. So far as the reference to kidnapping in the charge framed
 against the accused persons is concerned, it is necessary to
 note that the prosecution had attempted to prove the offence
 of abduction against the accused persons. A reading of the
 order on charge dated 23rd November 2002, which was Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 887 framed after hearing arguments of the parties on charge
 though uses the expression ―kidnap‖, but it unequivocally
 refers to commission of offences punishable under Section
 364 of the IPC which describes kidnapping or abducting in
 order to murder. 1655. The defence's understanding of the prosecution case against
 the accused persons is evident from their arguments on
 charge which have been noticed in para 4 of the order dated
 23rd November 2002 of the trial court which recorded its
 finding as follows: - There is, therefore, substance in the submission of the State
 that the use of the expression ―kidnapping‖ in the charge is,
 at the highest, merely an error. However use of the correct
 statutory provision for the offence in the charge itself clearly
 indicates the reference to abduction, and not kidnapping. 1660. So far as the effect of errors in the statement of charge are
 concerned, Section 215 of the Cr.P.C. would guide our
 consideration. It is clearly stated in Section 215 of the
 Cr.P.C. that - ―Effect of errors. - No error in stating either
 the offence or the particulars required to be
 stated in the charge, and no omission to state the
 offence or those particulars, shall be regarded at
 any stage of the case as material, unless the Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 891 accused as in fact misled by such error or
 omission, and it has occasioned a failure of
 justice.‖

1661. It is settled legal position that a defect in the frame of the
 charge is a mere irregularity and does not affect the
 conviction unless the accused shows that he has suffered
 substantial prejudice. The observations of the Supreme
 Court in (1955) 2 SCR 1140, Willie (William) Slaney v. The
 State of Madhya Pradesh in this regard may be adverted to- ―First of all, sections 221 to 223 of the Code,
 which undoubtedly envisage a formal written
 charge, set out what a charge must contain. A
 perusal of them reveals the reasons why a
 charge is required. It must set out the offence
 with which the accused is charged and if the
 law which creates the offence does not give it
 any specific name, so much of the definition of
 the offence must be stated ―as to give the
 accused notice of the matter with which he is
 charged‖. The charge must also contain such
 particulars of date, time, place and person "as
 are reasonably sufficient to give the accused
 notice of the matter with which he is charged‖;
 and section 223 says- ―When the nature of the case is such that
 the particulars mentioned in sections 221
 and 222 do not give the accused
 sufficient notice of the matter with which
 he is charged, the charge shall also
 contain such particulars of the manner in Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 892 which the alleged offence was committed
 as will be sufficient for that purpose.‖

 It is clear to us that the object of the charge is
 not to introduce a provision that goes to the root
 of jurisdiction as, for example, the requirement
 of previous sanction under section 197, but to
 enable the accused to have a clear idea of what
 he is being tried for and of the essential facts
 that he has to meet. But there are other ways of
 conveying this information. For example, in
 summons cases no formal charge is required: all
 that is necessary is to tell the accused the
 substance of the accusation made against him
 (section 242). The whole question is whether, in
 warrant cases and in sessions trials, the
 necessary information must be conveyed in one
 way and one way only, namely in a formal
 charge in order that the entire trial may not be
 ipso facto vitiated because of an incurable
 illegality, or whether that can be done in other
 and less formal ways, provided always that it is
 in fact conveyed in a clear and unambiguous
 manner and in circumstances that the court will
 regard as fair and in substantial, as opposed to
 purely technical, compliance with the
 requirements of the Code. The law could have
 provided one way as easily as another, but what
 it has chosen to do is set out in the following
 sections. The marginal note to section 225 is headed
 "Effect of errors" and the section states that - Therefore, when there is a charge and there is
 either error or omission in it or both, and
 whatever its nature, it is not to be regarded as
 material unless two conditions are fulfilled both
 of which are matters of fact : (1) the accused
 has in fact been misled by it and (2) it has
 occasioned a failure of justice. That, in our
 opinion, is reasonably plain language. Next, sections 226 and 227 show that errors in a
 charge, and even the total absence of a charge,
 do not vitiate a trial from the start so as to
 render it no trial at all as would the absence of
 sanction under section 197. This is evident
 because these errors and omissions can be
 remedied at any time during the course of the
 trial in the sessions Court (section 225) or even
 at the very end of the trial (section 227), and
 when this is done the trial need not proceed de
 novo but can go on from the stage at which the
 alteration was made provided neither side is
 prejudiced (section 228). That is conclusive to
 show that no error or omission in the charge,
 and not even a total absence of a charge, cuts at
 the root of the trial. The proceedings up to the
 stage of the alteration, which, as we have seen,
 can be at the very end of the trial, are not
 vitiated unless there is prejudice; they are good
 despite these imperfections. That is impossible
 when the error is so vital as to cut at the root of
 the trial. It follows that errors in the charge, and
 even a total absence of a charge, are not placed
 in the non-curable class. ‖ Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 894 1662. On the same issue in 2012 (8) SCALE 457 Bhimanna v. State of Karnataka reliance was placed on authoritative
 precedents and principles reiterated observing as follows: - While judging the question of prejudice or guilt,
 the court must bear in mind that every accused Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 895 has a right to a fair trial, where he is aware of
 what he is being tried for and where the facts
 sought to be established against him, are
 explained to him fairly and clearly, and further,
 where he is given a full and fair chance to
 defend himself against the said charge (s). 19. This Court in Sanichar Sahni v. State of
 Bihar, AIR 2010 SC 3786, while considering the
 issue placed reliance upon various judgments of
 this Court particularly in Topandas v. State of
 Bombay, AIR 1956 SC 33; Willie (William)
 Slaney v. State of M.P., AIR 1956 SC
 116; Fakhruddin v. State of Madhya
 Pradesh, AIR 1967 SC 1326; State of A.P. v. Thakkidiram Reddy, AIR 1998 SC 2702; Ramji
 Singh and Anr. v. State of Bihar , AIR 2001 SC
 3853; and Gurpreet Singh v. State of Punjab ,
 AIR 2006 SC 191, and came to the following
 conclusion: 15, 25, 33, 34, 40 and 45 along with their answers read as
 follows: - A. It is incorrect. I did not even know Nitish
 Katara. 33. Ques: It is further in evidence against you
 that on 17/02/02 complainant Nilam Katara
 from her cell phone No.9810206299 and
 landline Nos.3747555 and 3366629 called
 several times to your cousin sister Bharti Yadav
 on her cell Phone No.9810038469 to ascertain
 the whereabouts of Nitish Katara upon which
 Bharti Yadav replied that she was also trying to
 contact Nitish on his cell phone, but there was
 no response. What have you to say? A: I do not know. 34. Ques: It is further in evidence against you
 that your cousin sister Bharti Yadav called from
 her cell phone No.9810038469 to Bharat
 Diwakar on his mobile phone No.9810154964
 at 4.06 am. What have you to say? A: I do not know. 40. Ques: It is further in evidence against you
 that on 17/02/02 complainant lodged a
 complaint Ex.PW 1/1 in the PS Kavi Nagar
 Ghaziabad, UP, against you and your co
 accused persons regarding the abduction of
 Nitish Katara, from Diamond Place. What have
 you to say? A: I came to know later on that a false report
 had been lodged against me and my cousin
 Vikas Yadav. 45. Ques: It is further in evidence against you
 that the police searched you and your co
 accused persons Vikas Yadav and Sukhdev
 Pehlwan but you were found missing at the
 given addresses despite efforts made by the IO
 to search you. IO also prepared search memos
 Ex.PW 35/2 and Ex.PW 35/3 respectively. You
 were not found present even at 15, Balwant Rai
 Mehta Lane in Delhi Government
 accommodation allotted to your uncle Mr.DP
 Yadav being an MP. What have you to say? A: It is incorrect.‖ Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 899 1665. So far as the examination of Vishal Yadav under Section 313 of the Cr.P.C. is concerned, Question Nos. 18, 20, 23 to 25
 and 40 also deserve to be noticed and read as follows: - A: It is incorrect. I did not even know Nitish
 Katara. 40. Ques: It is further in evidence against you
 that on 17/02/02 complainant lodged a
 complaint Ex.PW 1/1 in the PS Kavi Nagar
 Ghaziabad, UP, against you and your co
 accused persons regarding the abduction of
 Nitish Katara, from Diamond Palace. What
 have you to say? A: I came to know later on that a false report
 had been lodged against me and my cousin
 Vikas Yadav.‖

1666. In the instant case, the accused persons were fully put to
 notice on the charge against them and the allegations which
 they had to meet. The accused persons understood the same
 rightly and clearly. No argument at all was laid on any
 prejudice resulting to them. 1667. The case of abduction and murder was clearly put to both the
 accused persons under Section 313 of the Cr.P.C., as detailed
 hereinabove. There was no misunderstanding or prejudice Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 901 caused to the accused persons on account of the use of the
 expression ―kidnapping‖ in the charge. The objection on behalf of the appellants premised on defect
 in framing the charge therefore has to be rejected. 1668. It is noteworthy that the evidence on record would show that
 the prosecution had attempted to prove the offence of
 abduction and not kidnapping against the accused persons.
 PW-25, Bharat Diwakar has testified that Nitish Katara was
 taken away from Shivani Gaur's wedding by a young
 person. In his statement, he has stated that he later came to
 know that the person was named Vishal. 1669. PW-36 Revati Lau of NDTV has produced a recording
 wherein Vikas Yadav refers to an altercation ostensibly with
 Nitish Katara immediately outside the marriage venue. PW-
 32, Constable Satender Pal Singh (who was examined as
 PW-10/A in Sukhdev Yadav's trial) establishes that the
 accused persons and a person in a red kurta were together in
 the Tata Safari vehicle around 12.30 a.m. on the night
 intervening 16/17th February, 2002. PW-33 Ajay Katara
 (PW-14 in Sukhdev Yadav's trial) has also testified that the
 accused and Nitish Katara were seen together in a Tata
 Safari vehicle at the Hapur Chungi. When this evidence was
 put to Vishal Yadav in the Section 313 examination as
 Question Nos. 16 to 20, 22 to 26 and to Vikas Yadav as Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 902 Questions Nos. 22 to 28, 30, 32 to 36, they took up a stand
 that they did not even know Nitish Katara and merely denied
 the entire evidence. 1670. In order to displace the prosecution story of Nitish having
 been abducted by the appellants, Mr. Ram Jethmalani has
 heavily relied on a statement attributed to Nitish Katara in a
 phone call on the fateful night. Mr. Jethmalani has
 emphasized that Gaurav Gupta has claimed that at about
 12.58 am, he had established mobile contact with Nitish who
 had informed him that he was at the IMT, Ghaziabad. The
 submission is that this statement falsifies not only the last
 seen evidence of Ajay Katara but also the prosecution case
 that Nitish had been abducted. 1671. It is further urged by Mr. Jethmalani, learned senior counsel
 that the testimony of PW-26 Gaurav Gupta establishes that
 Nitish was alive at 12:58 am at the IMT; that Nitish was
 suffering from no tension at all and was entertaining an
 expectation of soon meeting his friends to whom he had not
 said goodbye. It is further urged that the testimony shows
 that Nitish was nurturing no suspicion or doubt that he
 would be killed by his then companions and his state of mind
 was inconsistent with the murder. Learned senior counsel
 would contend that even if the inadmissible evidence led on
 record was accepted, still there is nothing to support the
 conviction of Vishal Yadav. 1672. It is contended that evidence of the witness who says that he
 heard Nitish's phone call is a relevant fact within the
 meaning of Section 3 of the Evidence Act. In this regard,
 reliance is placed on the pronouncement of the Calcutta High
 Court reported at AIR 1942 Cal 498 Smt. Bibhabati Devi
 W/o Kumar Ramindra Narayan Roy v. Kumar Ramindra
 Narayan Roy and the Privy Council decision rejecting the
 appeal therefrom reported at AIR 1947 P.C. 19 Smt.
 Bibhabati Devi v. R.N. Roy (Paras 16, 17 and 18). 1673. Learned senior counsel has contended that the statement of
 Gaurav Gupta that the deceased told him on the phone that
 he was at the IMT was admissible in evidence as a
 circumstance of making the statement, but it was not proof
 of its contents or truth. 1674. Our attention has been drawn to the evidence of Gaurav
 Gupta (recorded as PW-26 in Vikas and Vishal's trial)
 recorded on 4th of April, 2003 who had also been invited to
 attend the marriage of Shivani Gaur, a batchmate and had
 come for this purpose from Faizabad. This witness states
 that he had arrived on the same night when the marriage was
 to take place. Gaurav Gupta's cell phone did not have
 roaming facility. Accompanied by his friends Bharat
 Diwakar and Nitish Katara, Gaurav Gupta had gone for
 taking the meal around 12/12.15 on that night. 1675. While having dinner together, he had gone to replenish his
 plate and when he returned, Nitish was gone and only Bharat
 was there. The witness further states that at that time, they
 had not finished their meal. We have already noticed in
 detail the prosecution evidence with regard to Nitish Katara
 abruptly leaving the company of his friends at dinner. 1676. The witness also stated that as he did not have roaming
 facility on his mobile phone, he had given the phone number
 of Bharat or Nitish to his friend Yashoman Tomar who had
 informed vide a message about 10/15 minutes after he had
 replenished his plate that he (Yashoman) was waiting for
 him outside the Banquet Hall. Yashoman was using mobile
 phone having no. 9811220691. 1677. Gaurav Gupta has testified that he left the marriage pandal
 around 12.45 a.m. or 1 a.m. in the night with Yashoman
 Tomar. As Nitish had not returned, before leaving Gaurav
 had tried to call Nitish Katara on his mobile from the
 marriage venue. The witness was unable to recollect as to
 whether he had used the cell phone of Yashoman Tomar or
 that of Bharat Diwakar to bid farewell to him. 1678. Before considering the truth of the testimony of Gaurav
 Gupta, it is necessary to consider a few essential facts about
 his evidence. Gaurav Gupta testified that he was able to
 connect with Nitish's cell phone at that time and that he had Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 905 asked Nitish where he was and also told him that he was
 leaving. As per Gaurav Gupta's testimony, Nitish told him
 that he was at the IMT and that he would contact him. This
 was an improvement over his previous statement made under
 Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. 1679. The witness was consequently confronted by the ld. Special
 PP with portion ‗A' to ‗A' of his statement to the police
 recorded on 26th March, 2002, (Exh.PW-26/1) wherein
 Gaurav Gupta had stated that ―maine Yashoman ke mobile
 phone no.981122691 se Nitish Katara ke mobile par baat ki
 aur maine kaha ki tum to bina bataye hi chale gaye to Nitish
 koi sahi jawab nahin de paya tha aur tab tak telephone cut
 gaya tha‖ (which translates as: ―he had told Nitish that he
 (Nitish) had left the marriage pandal without informing; that
 Nitish could not give any correct answer and by that time the
 telephone got disconnected"). Exh.PW-26/1 clearly indicates
 that Nitish Katara was under pressure and unable to respond
 to calls received on his cell phone. 1680. After going through the statement, the witness stated that
 Ex.PW26/1 was the statement made by him to the police
 except that he had contact with Nitish Katara on the cell
 phone. 1681. On the 10th of July, 2003 while recording the evidence of the
 Investigating Officer SI J.K. Gangwar (PW 34), the ld. Trial Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 906 Judge had put court questions to him. In answer to one court
 question, SI J.K. Gangwar has disclosed that Gaurav Gupta
 was the son of a retired High Court Judge who had called
 him to their Gomti Nagar in Lucknow for recording his son's
 statement. SI J.K. Gangwar has stated that Gaurav Gupta's father was
 sitting along his side at the time of recording Exh.PW26/1
 and that the Investigating Officer had correctly recorded
 whatever Gaurav Gupta had told him. 1682. SI J.K. Gangwar has also testified that after Gaurav Gupta's
 statement was recorded, he had read it over to Gaurav Gupta
 in the presence of his father (including the portion ‗A to A'
 with which Gaurav Gupta was confronted in court) and
 neither Gaurav Gupta nor his father told him that he had
 recorded his statement incorrectly. SI J.K. Gangwar also
 testified that nothing was added to or deleted in the
 statement. SI J.K. Gangwar was not cross-examined on this
 testimony. 1683. The statement of Bharat Diwakar under Section 161 of the
 Cr.P.C. was recorded by the investigating officer in the
 presence of his father who was ADG Spl. Operations and
 was at that time posted at Bhopal. In this statement, Bharat
 Diwakar had stated that they were unable to make contact
 with Nitish Katara on his mobile. However, while testifying Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 907 as PW-25 in the first trial on 3rd April, 2003, Bharat Diwakar
 had also attributed a cell phone contact between Gaurav
 Gupta and Nitish. 1684. It is in the evidence of Investigating Officer that the
 statements under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. were recorded in
 the case diary as per the requirement in U.P. They were not
 on any loose paper. We have noted that investigation in the
 present case was throughout subjected to judicial scrutiny. 1685. As against this improved testimony, we have the evidence of
 Ajay Katara who testified that he had seen the accused
 persons with the deceased between 12:20 and 12:30 a.m.
 near Hapur Chungi, Ghaziabad. They were moving in the
 Tata Safari vehicle driven by Vikas Yadav. 1686. In this regard, our attention has been drawn to the call record
 details proved by the prosecution which shows that at around
 12:58 am, Nitish was in the Raj Nagar area. 1687. Though no site plan has been placed on the trial court record
 showing the location of Diamond Palace, Banquet Hall;
 Hapur Chungi and the IMT, all counsels appearing in the
 matter have placed reliance on maps of the area which are in
 the public domain. It is evident from these that Diamond
 Palace, Hapur Chungi and IMT are in the same area and in
 close proximity. The location of Nitish's phone as per the tower details when
 the call at 12.58 a.m. was received on it, thus proves that the
 deceased was present in the Hapur Chungi area at that time.
 Rather than contradicting the testimony of Ajay Katara, this
 call in fact fortifies the testimony of the witness. 1688. Even if we were to accept that Nitish told Gaurav Gupta at
 00:58 hours that he was IMT, this statement does not
 establish that Nitish was comfortably ensconsced in pleasant
 company. IMT is not a hotel or restaurant or a public place
 open to the public all night. It is an educational institute
 which would be opening and closing during regular day light
 hours. It is common experience that colleges and school
 simply empty out gradually after the last bell rings. The
 appellants do not say that the IMT was any different. In the
 middle of the night, there would be little possibility of
 presence of any people. So if he was actually there, what were the appellants and
 Nitish Katara doing in an empty educational institute in the
 middle of the night? If Nitin actually spoke to Gaurav
 Gupta, it was the last conversation anybody had with Nitish.
 In our view, this by itself is an extremely suspicious
 circumstance which points to the culpability of the
 appellants who having abducted Nitish took him to a lonely
 educational institution in the middle of the night. The Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 909 statement attributed to Nitish by Gaurav Gupta therefore
 nowhere suggests the innocence of the appellants. 1689. So far as attempts to reach Nitish on the cell phone are
 concerned, reference also deserves to be made also to the
 testimony of Bharat Diwakar (PW-25 in the first trial) who
 stated that at about 12:00 - 12:15 a.m. (night of 16th /17th
 February, 2002) he had noted that Nitish had not re-joined
 them at dinner and that he was also not at the wedding
 venue. He states that ―we‖ (Gaurav Gupta and Bharat
 Diwakar) called up Nitish around 12:00 - 12:15 a.m. on his
 cell phone but could not get through. 1690. Interestingly, contrary to the evidence of the call records as
 well as his statement under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C.,
 Bharat Diwakar has also attempted to introduce contact
 between Gaurav Gupta and Nitish Katara. He made no
 disclosure of any such information about Nitish‗s location to
 Nilam Katara after he returned alone to her home despite her
 worried queries to him. 1691. It is intriguing that Gaurav Gupta does not even recollect
 whose phone he used to call Nitish, i.e., whether it was
 Yashoman Tomar's cell phone or Bharat Diwakar's cell
 phone. Yet he attributes a definite statement to Nitish.
 Despite being Nitish's friends, Bharat Diwakar and Gaurav Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 910 Gupta did not attend his funeral or visit the family to pay
 their condolences. 1692. It is Gaurav Gupta's evidence that only after he received a
 message from Yashoman Tomar that he had arrived to pick
 Gaurav up, that he made efforts to track Nitish. It is
 therefore evident that Yashoman Tomar would have been
 present when Gaurav Gupta was trying to phone Nitish from
 his (Yashoman's) cell. Yashoman Tomar as PW 20 does not
 refer to any disclosure by Nitish of his whereabouts. 1693. If Gaurav Gupta had actually made contact with the
 deceased, reasonable conduct would have been for Nitish
 Katara to apologize for leaving so suddenly; explain the
 reason for his abrupt departure as well as inform his friend
 about when he was returning to join them. Instead a crude
 statement of a location is attributed as having been made by
 Nitish Katara at that early an hour on the 17th of February,
 2002. This is certainly neither natural nor normal. If Nitish
 had actually told Gaurav Gupta that he was at the IMT,
 would these two, again educated, well connected friends of
 Nitish, have overlooked telling the police of this crucial fact?
 If true, it was a vital fact which required to be investigated. 1694. The ld. trial judge has righlty held that the fact that they
 made improvements in their previous statement over
 identical facts and tried to introduce a conversation with Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 911 Nitish at 00:58 hours is a telling circumstance by itself. So
 far as Bharat Diwakar is concerned, he has not only made
 this improvement but has attempted to conceal the identity of
 Vishal Yadav as the person who had called away Nitish
 Katara clearly manifesting the correctness of the
 observations made by the ld. trial court. 1695. The ld. Trial Judge has rightly held that Gaurav Gupta had
 been influenced by the accused persons and that Bharat
 Diwakar had been won over. 1696. As per Ex.PW21/1, call records relating to Nitish Katara's
 cell phone, after 23:24:28 hrs. (11:24 pm), Nitish's cell
 phone reflects that he also received three phone calls from
 cell phone no.9811009998 (cell number not tracked by the
 police), each lasting 00:01 seconds. In addition, he has
 received two calls from Bharti's identified cell phone
 (no.9811034829), one at 00:35:40 hrs. (00:35 am) lasting
 00:20 seconds and a second call at 00:40:44 lasting 00:21
 seconds. These corroborate Bharti's disclosure to Nilam
 Katara that she also had unsuccessfully tried to contact
 Nitish after she had learnt that he had been taken away by
 her brothers. 1697. Thereafter there are two calls from Yashoman Tomar's cell
 phone to Nitish Katara in close succession. The first call is
 at 00:43:14 hrs which lasted 00:25 seconds while the second Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 912 call at 00:46:27 hrs was for 00:07 seconds. These two calls
 from Gaurav Gupta were followed by a call from Bharat
 Diwakar's cell phone at 00:58:26 hrs which lasted 00:17
 seconds. The last call received from Nitish Katara's cell
 phone was at 01:11:18 hrs which again is from Yashoman
 Tomar's cell phone which lasted 00:20 seconds. The
 frequency of all these calls and the shortness of their
 duration establishes that Nitish was, in fact, prevented from
 using his phone by his abductors. Gaurav Gupta had
 therefore given a truthful account in Exh.PW-26/1 that he
 was unable to speak. The testimony to the contrary in court
 is false. 1698. It is therefore clearly evident that the attribution of the
 statement to Nitish Katara in the call at 12:58 a.m. by
 Gaurav Gupta as well as Bharat Diwakar was an
 embellishment and improvement in material particulars and
 cannot be believed. Clearly Bharat Diwakar and Gaurav
 Gupta have made an unfortunate attempt to dilute the
 prosecution case against their friend Bharti Yadav's
 brothers. 1699. While Gaurav Gupta had been influenced, Bharat Diwakar
 had been won over. So for this reason it appears that their
 examination in Sukhdev's trial was deemed unnecessary. 1700. We do not know what was said to Nitish to take him away
 from his friends. Was it something related to his relationship
 with Bharti? Or was it a matter concerning Bharti which
 would have been of extreme concern? Or relating to their
 alliance? Whatever be it, it was of such imminence and
 urgency that he left his dinner as well as his friends without
 even disclosing where he was going for how long, with
 whom or why! So was he positioned thereafter that he could
 not even inform these friends, or family for that matter, as to
 where he was or what was he doing. This is not conduct that
 is natural, especially when Nitish knew he had to return
 home with Bharat Diwakar in the taxi hired by him which
 was waiting for him at the Diamond Palace Banquet Hall.
 He was not able to take any calls after he left the company of
 his friends. 1701. Let us see if there is any evidence which could enable
 assessment of Nitish's circumstances after he got into the
 Tata Safari vehicle with the appellants. We have discussed
 above that Nitish does not appear to be able to respond to
 incoming calls on his phone after the time he left the
 Banquet Hall. 1702. It is extremely important to note that as per the call record,
 Exh.PW21/1, there is no outgoing call or text message from
 Nitish Katara's cell phone after 11.33 p.m. Even if he left in
 a hurry, Nitish would have certainly wanted to have Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 914 informed about his schedule to his friends whom he had so
 precipitately abandoned midway through dinner. Especially
 Bharat Diwakar with whom he had to return in the hired taxi
 to his home in Delhi. 1703. Nitish Katara was not a friend or associate of the appellants
 who have been found to have aversion to his relationship
 with the sister of two of them. The abrupt manner in which
 he moved away from his friends and left the Shivani Gaur's
 wedding to accompany the appellants and was found
 murdered after being seen in their company required the
 appellants to disclose why Nitish was with them and what
 happened to him. The appellants have given no explanation
 either in the statements under Section 313 of the Cr.P.C. or
 otherwise led evidence to show in this regard. 1704. The defence led no evidence and rendered no explanation at
 all, either in the statements recorded under Section 313 of
 the Cr.P.C. or by discharge of their burden of proof under Section 106 of the Indian Evidence Act to explain as to why
 or how a person, identified as Nitish Katara, who they claim
 that they did not even know was found in their company in
 their Tata Safari vehicle on the fateful night. 1705. Mr. Kapoor has urged at length that evidence of last seen
 cannot be turned into evidence of abduction. This argument
 in the facts and circumstances of the given case is Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 915 completely misconceived. The prosecution has led
 substantial evidence of motive; recoveries pursuant to
 disclosures; abscondance; forensic and medical evidence
 which cannot be disbelieved. 1706. Certainly Nitish Katara would not have accompanied the
 appellants if he was aware of their intentions to inflict the
 violence which they did upon him. 1707. Section 362 of the IPC uses the expressions ―by force
 compels‖ or ―by any deceitful means induces‖ any person to
 go from any place. It is not the prosecution case that force
 was used to compel Nitish to leave the wedding venue. The
 appellants certainly would not have disclosed their real
 reason for making Nitish accompany them in the Tata Safari
 from the wedding venue. He would also not have known
 about their intent to murder him, else Nitish would not have
 accompanied the appellants in the vehicle or been sitting
 without protesting especially when the Tata Safari was
 stopped by the police patrol and then at the Hapur Chungi
 when Ajay Katara came up to it. We have also discussed the
 common intention shared by the appellants in this judgment.
 The established facts prove that the appellants induced
 Nitish Katara by use of deceitful means to go with them
 from the wedding venue and therefore committed the offence
 of abduction. 1708. We have noticed above Bharti's utterances to Nilam Katara
 and Nitish Katara on the17th February, 2002 that Vikas and
 Vishal Yadav had taken away the deceased. We have also
 detailed her conduct and anxiety about his safety at their
 hands. This is a material fact which establishes the
 abduction by the appellants. XX Failure to put incriminating circumstances under
 Section 313

1709. According to Mr. Ram Jethmalani, learned senior counsel,
 the trial court failed to perform its most important yet
 elementary duty under Section 313 of the Cr.P.C. and that a
 large number of circumstances relied upon against the
 accused from pages 1051 to 1074 were never put to the
 accused persons. As such, the accused never had chance to
 explain the circumstances by cross-examination or by
 leading defence. 1710. Mr. Jethmalani, learned senior counsel has placed reliance
 on the pronouncement of the Supreme Court reported at AIR
 1953 SC 468 Hate Singh Bhagat Singh v. State of Madhya
 Bharat (A2/31) and urged that a statement of the accused
 persons under Section 313 of the Cr.P.C. is the most
 important matter to be considered at the trial. In this case,
 the court was concerned with statements of the accused
 persons recorded under Sections 202, 203, 204 of the Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 917 Criminal Procedure Code . In this regard, the court has
 observed as follows :- 1727. We find that in the circumstances put to the accused under Section 313 of the Cr.P.C. questions have been put to Vikas
 Yadav and Vishal Yadav in this regard. So far as Vikas
 Yadav is concerned, question nos.150, 152 and 153 were put
 in this regard whereas to Vishal Yadav question nos.144, Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 928 145 and 146 are relevant. Therefore the objection of the
 appellants in this regard is without basis. 1728. In this background, the submission of learned senior counsel
 with regard to the evidence on this aspect not being put to
 the accused persons to seek their clarification under Section
 313 of the Cr.P.C. is not supported by the record. XXI The Prosecution Failed to Produce Unimpeachable
 Evidence of the Innocence of Vishal Yadav- Failure to
 Examine Kamal Kishore - Effect

 The discussion on this subject is being considered under the
 following sub-headings: As per this statement, Vikas Yadav, driver Anil and another
 man had come to the house of Shri D.P. Yadav in Balwant
 Rai Mehta Lane at 1.00/1:30 am in the night intervening 16 th
 / 17th February, 2002. Anil was driving the vehicle which
 was long with the back portion raised; the colour of the
 vehicle was perhaps green; the third person was fair; clean
 shaved and wearing a red kurta. It is vehemently urged that
 as per this statement, Vishal Yadav had parted company
 from Vikas Yadav and that the deceased was last seen alive
 by Kamal Kishore in the company of Vikas Yadav. 1730. It is urged that Kamal Kishore was cited as a witness at
 serial no.4 in the charge sheet; that the police, therefore, had
 unimpeachable evidence of the innocence of Vishal Yadav
 which they deliberately did not produce. 1731. Mr. Jethmalani contends that in the present case the failure
 to examine Kamal Kishore and the failure of the court to
 exercise its statutory powers to call this person as a witness Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 930 has resulted in failure of justice which is a serious infirmity
 in the trial so far as Vishal Yadav is concerned. Learned
 senior counsel has urged that there was a constitutional and
 professional duty on the prosecution to examine this witness
 failing which it was the duty of the court to have directed his
 examination. However, the trial court was prejudiced
 against the accused rendering the trial a mockery of justice. 1732. Learned senior counsel has placed reliance on the
 pronouncements reported at 1936 P.C. 169 (para 16)
 Stephen Seneviratne v. The King ; AIR 1965 SC 328 Darya
 Singh and Ors. v. State of Punjab, (Headnote B); AIR 1933
 Oudh 265 Ghirrao v. Emperor (Headnote B) AIR 2010 SC
 2352 Sidhartha Vashisht @ Manu Sharma v. State (NCT of
 Delhi ) (para 74 (2399 pg 2403); Rule 16 of Bar Council of
 India Rules (para 82 pg 2404) to elucidate the duty and
 standards of a public prosecutor in a criminal. Learned
 senior counsel has also placed reliance on the guidelines no.
 242 and 243 of the Guidelines framed by the Attorney
 General of the United Kingdom titled as Attorney General's
 Guidelines to buttress his submission that the failure to
 examine Kamal Kishore was a breach of his professional
 duty by the prosecutor. 1733. Mr.R.K. Kapoor, learned counsel appearing for the appellant
 Sukhdev @ Pehalwan has also urged that the prosecution has Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 931 withheld material evidence of Kamal Kishore which
 supported the innocence of this appellant. (i) Standards of professional conduct mandated upon the
 public prosecutor
1734. Mr. Jethmalani has placed the judgment reported at AIR
 1933 Oudh 265 Ghirrao v. Emperor before us. In this case
 it it was observed that the duty of a public prosecutor is not
 merely to secure the conviction of the accused at all costs but
 to place before the court whatever evidence is in the
 possession of the prosecution whether it be in favour of or
 against the accused, and to leave it to the court to decide
 upon all such evidence, whether the accused had or had not
 committed the offence with which he stood charged. There
 can be no dispute at all with this sound principle which
 ensures fairness in trial. In this precedent, the report of the chemical examiner and
 the imperial serologist had not been placed before the court.
 In the present case, it is an admitted position that all
 documents including the statement attributed to Kamal
 Kishore had been filed by the prosecution. The defence had
 also received copies of all statements recorded by the police.
 We shall elaborate on this aspect a little later. 1735. On a similar submission raised before the Supreme Court in Sidhartha Vashisht @ Manu Sharma v. State (NCT of Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 932 Delhi ) (supra), the Supreme Court placed reliance on earlier
 pronouncements in ( 1999) 7 SCC 467 Shiv Kumar v.
 Hukam Chand and Anr. ; ( 1994) 4 SCC 602 Hitendra
 Vishnu Thakur and Others v. State of Maharashtra and
 Others and ( 2004) 4 SCC 158 Zahira Habibulla H. Sheikh
 and Anr. v. State of Gujarat and Ors. and ruled as follows: 1741. We may usefully refer to the pronouncement of the Supreme
 Court reported at AIR 1965 SC 328 Darya Singh and Ors. v.
 State of Punjab wherein the court considered the scope of
 discretion of a prosecutor to decide which witnesses as he
 would examine in order to unfold the case of the
 prosecution. The following observations of the Supreme
 Court in this case relied upon by learned senior counsel shed
 light on the issues arising in the present case and deserve to
 be considered in extenso. The relevant extract reads as
 follows :- 1745. It has further been contended that Kamal Kishore was an
 employee of Shri D.P. Yadav, father of the accused Vikas
 Yadav. He could have been summoned as a court witness or
 even by the defence witness and for this reason as well no
 adverse inference can be drawn against the prosecution. 1746. The record of the lower court reveals that on 3 rd July, 2003,
 the court ordered as follows: 1754. It was put to Mr. Jethmalani that the accused had been put to
 notice about such statement inasmuch as the same was part
 of the record made available to the appellants, and therefore
 what precluded them, especially Vishal Yadav from
 examining Kamal Kishore as a witness in defence? Mr.
 Jethmalani could not dispute the legal position that it was
 open to the appellants to summon Kamal Kishore as a
 witness on their behalf in case his deposition was favourable
 to the defence. A submission was, however, made that in
 case this person was called as a defence witness and he
 resiled from the statement which was allegedly made to the
 police under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C., it was not open to
 the defence to confront him with the previous statement Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 943 made under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. in view of the
 prohibition contained under Section 162 of the Code of
 Criminal Procedure. Learned senior counsel placed reliance
 on the judicial pronouncement reported at AIR 1968 SC
 1390, Laxman Kalu Nikalje v. The State of Maharashtra
 and Ors. v. State (NCT of Delhi) in support of this
 submission. 1755. In Laxman Kalu Nikalje (supra), an issue of permissibility
 of cross-examination of a prosecution witness in respect of
 statement before the police arose. The witness Kamla Bai
 had named her husband as the assailant in court, whereas she
 had never named him in the statement which she had made
 to the police. In para 7 of the pronouncement, the Supreme Court observed
 that our law does not permit cross-examination of such a
 witness in respect of statement made before the trial. It is
 noteworthy that this decision does not prohibit the
 summoning of such a person as a court witness under Section 311 of the Evidence Act. 1756. Under Section 162 of the Cr.P.C., the statement made by any
 person to police officer in course of investigation, if reduced
 to writing shall not be signed by the person making it. Section 162 further interdicts use of such statement or part
 thereof for any purpose at any inquiry or trial in respect of Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 944 any offence under investigation at the time when the
 statement was made, except that the same may be used by
 the accused, and, that with the permission of the court, by
 the prosecution to contradict such witness in the manner
 provided by Section 145 of the Indian Evidence Act. It is
 permissible to use such statement also in the re-examination
 of such witnesses for the limited purpose of explaining any
 matter referred to in his cross-examination. 1757. Under Section 157 of the Evidence Act, any former
 statement made by the witness relating to the fact about
 which he is testifies in court, at or about the time when the
 fact took place, or before any authority legally competent to
 investigate the fact, may be proved in order to corroborate
 testimony of witness. Such statement cannot be put to any
 other use. (Ref: (1999) 5 SCC 30 Ramprasad v. State of
 Maharashtra. (para 15)

1758. It is noteworthy that Section 154 of the Indian Evidence Act,
 1872, which permits the court to declare a witness hostile,
 does not even remotely restrict its applicability only to a
 prosecution witness. The statute contains no prohibition that
 a witness called by the accused in support of its defence,
 cannot be confronted with his previous statement under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. if he resiles therefrom. No such
 prohibition is also to be found under Section 145 of the
 Indian Evidence Act. There is, therefore, no statutory Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 945 prohibition to confronting defence witness by means of a
 previous statement made to the police. 1759. Mr. Jethmalani has submitted that the defence cannot
 confront a defence witness that the statement made under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. For this reason, Kamal Kishore
 was not summoned by the appellant. There was however
 available a third option to the appellants. The trial courts
 could have been requested to examine Kamal Kishore. No
 decision has been placed which, in any manner, prohibits the
 accused persons from making an application to the court for
 summoning this person as a court witness. 1760. In support of this option, our attention has been drawn by
 Mr.Krishnan to the judicial pronouncement reported at
 (1975) 3 SCC 851, para 14, Shanker v. State of UP. In this
 case, two persons who were originally cited as eye-witnesses
 by the prosecution were not examined. Before the Supreme
 Court, it was argued that these eye-witnesses were withheld
 without any reason and secondly, an adverse inference
 should be drawn that these independent witnesses, if
 produced before the court, would have falsified the account
 given by other eye-witnesses before the court. The court
 made a reference to Section 540 of the Cr.P.C. (now Section
 311 of the Cr.P.C.) in its discussion. The findings of the
 court on this issue shed valuable light on submissions made
 before this court and read as follows: 1763. The defence explanation set up before us for non- examination of Kamal Kishore as a defence witness is also
 controverted by the manner in which they have proceeded
 with regard to non-examination of Sh. Satpal Yadav,
 Advocate who was also cited as a prosecution witness in
 support of the recoveries was abandoned by the prosecution
 as having been won over. Vikas and Vishal Yadav examined
 Shri Satyapal Yadav, Advocate as defence witness. 1764. We are compelled to observe that this was part of a
 calculated strategy and careful design on the part of the
 appellants merely to raise such an objection. (iii) The appellants‟ stand on Kamal Kishore before the trial
 court

1765. The contention before us that Kamal Kishore was a vital
 witness and that he was not examined with malafide
 intention has also to be scrutinised in the light of the stand of
 the accused persons before the trial courts. There is no
 dispute at all that Kamal Kishore was an employee of Shri
 D.P. Yadav, the father of Vikas Yadav. In the cross-
 examination on behalf of Vikas Yadav, a suggestion has
 been put to PW-35 Anil Somania that he had taken Kamal
 Kishore along with him to the Police Station Ghaziabad and
 he was discharged from the Police Station Ghaziabad only at
 3 a.m. on 18th February, 2002. It has further been suggested
 to PW-35 that he had falsely recorded the statement of
 Kamal Kishore Sharma under threat and coercion. 1766. Our attention is drawn to the further suggestion by counsel
 for Vikas Yadav to PW-35 Anil Somania in court that Kamal
 Kishore was not intentionally produced in the court because
 PW-35 had wrongly recorded his statement and that he had
 not taken written permission from the SHO of the Police
 Station Tilak Marg for interrogating Kamal Kishore. Vikas
 Yadav thus disputed the very making of the statement. 1767. Let us examine the stand taken by Vishal Yadav on this
 statement before the trial court. We have noted above that
 Vishal Yadav had filed an application dated 11th October, Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 949 2002 under the signatures of his counsel before the learned
 trial judge seeking production of certain documents by the
 police and admission/denial. The assertion made in this
 application on behalf of the applicant so far as the alleged
 statement of Kamal Kishore was concerned, also deserves to
 be noticed and reads as follows:- (iv) Whether prosecution had performed its duty and
 discharged its burden? 1773. The several efforts including coercive process made to cause
 the appearance of Kamal Kishore for recording his statement
 would show that the prosecution had discharged its burden
 by taking steps for his production. 1774. Mr. P.K. Dey, learned counsel for the complainant, has
 argued that the statement purported to have been given by
 Sh.Kamal Kishore to the investigating officer was filed
 along with the chargesheet. It is admitted that copies thereof
 were received by the accused persons. The submission is
 that prosecution has, therefore, made a complete disclosure
 of the entire material in its possession as regards the case, to
 the court as well as to the accused persons. We agree with
 the learned counsel that the prosecution has discharged its
 duty of fair disclosure to the accused as noticed in para 91,
 191 and elsewhere of Sidharth Vashisth @ Manu Sharma (supra). Mr. Dey has placed reliance also on the extract
 from Archbold, First Supplement to the 2003 Edition,
 relied upon by Mr. Ram Jethmalani, senior counsel for this
 purpose. (v) Putting of exhibit mark on the statement - effect thereof

1775. Strong objection has been laid by Mr. Dayan Krishnan on
 behalf of the State with regard to the exhibition of the
 statement attributed to Kamal Kishore. It is also urged that
 the statement was attributed to a third person and could not
 have been exhibited by the investigating officer. There is
 substance in this submission. 1776. Placing reliance on Section 114(g) of the Indian Evidence
 Act, Mr. Dayan Krishnan has also urged that in the given Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 953 facts such exception would not invite any adverse inference
 against the prosecution for non-production of Kamal
 Kishore. 1777. Section 162 of the Cr.P.C. specifically puts a bar on using as
 evidence any statement recorded by the police under Section
 161 of the Cr.P.C. Unfortunately, the trial court in the instant
 case has marked as an exhibit the entire statements recorded
 during investigation under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C.. The
 same is contrary to the mandate of the law and legally
 impermissible. In any case a statement under Section 161 of
 the Cr.P.C. of a person who does not appear as a witness
 before the court is not substantive evidence. Merely
 marking on the statement as an exhibit would in any case not
 render the statement as substantive evidence. 1778. On this issue, Navjot Sandhu (supra), the Supreme Court
 observed as follows: - 1781. As per Ex.PW21/1, Nitish Katara received a call at his cell
 phone at 22:24:05 hrs from the phone of Yashoman Tomar
 which lasted 1:08 seconds when it was in the Ghaziabad
 area. The next call was received by him at 00:35:40 hrs
 when his phone was being covered by the Raj Nagar,
 Ghaziabad cell tower. The five calls thereafter received by
 him up to the last call being at 01:11:18 hrs was received by
 this cell phone when it was being covered by the Raj Nagar,
 Ghaziabad cell tower only. The several calls to his cell
 phone establish that Nitish Katara was within the reach of
 cell towers in Ghaziabad and had not moved to Delhi. This
 documentary evidence shows that the statement attributed to
 Kamal Kishore under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. to the effect
 that Nitish Katara was in New Delhi at around 1:00 am of
 17th February, 2002 was thus factually incorrect. We may
 note that before us Mr. Jethmalani has extensively relied
 upon the call at 1:11:18 hrs and statement attributed by
 Gaurav Gupta to Nitish that he was at the IMT, Ghaziabad at
 that time. 1782. The contents of Exh.PW-35/4 are also in contradiction to the
 testimony of Shivani Gaur, Bharti Yadav as well as Bhawna
 Gupta as they stated that Nitish Katara was at Shivani's
 wedding till 1:30 am. 1783. Clearly Kamal Kishore was not a reliable witness. It was
 suggested that he was really a plant, perhaps intended to
 name somebody else, but erroneously named Vikas Yadav.
 This would be falling in the realm of speculation and our
 consideration must confine itself to record. 1784. As per the principles laid down in (2000) 7 SCC 490,
 Hukum Singh v. State of Rajasthan (para 14) it was open to
 the prosecutor not to examine a person as a prosecution
 witness who is unreliable and may not support the
 prosecution version. The Supreme Court has stated that it is
 open to the defence to request his examination as a court
 witness. The appellants have examined as a defence witness,
 another cited prosecution witness who was not examined as
 a prosecution witness. Nothing precluded the appellants
 from so examining Kamal Kishore as well. In view of the
 above discussion, the prosecution cannot be faulted for the
 non-examination of Kamal Kishore as a prosecution witness.
 Additionally, no benefit enures in favour of the appellants
 from his non-examination inasmuch as the presence of the
 deceased in the Ghaziabad area at that time stands
 established by proven documentary evidence and testimony
 of witnesses noted above. XXII Did the appellants share common intention of
 committing the offences? 1785. In the instant case, the prosecution has led evidence that
 while Vikas and Vishal Yadav had a strong motive against
 the deceased Nitish Katara which stands proved and
 established against them in their trial, the appellant Sukhdev
 @ Pehalwan shared in the motive as he was in the
 employment in the liquor shop business of the family of
 Vikas Yadav. 1786. It is urged by Mr. Ram Jethmalani, learned Senior Counsel
 that the case of the prosecution is that the accused persons
 came to attend the wedding, saw Nitish Katara and
 immediately decided to kill him. The prosecution has not
 alleged planning, pre-meditation or forethought to their
 actions. It is urged that no charge was framed against the
 accused persons under Section 120-B but a charge under Section 34 of the IPC has been framed. It has also been
 contended that common intention, necessary to bring home
 the charge must be a result of prior concert. It was essential
 also for the prosecution to establish previous concert and a
 physical presence when the act/transaction takes place. The
 submission that these elements were hopelessly missing in
 the instant case. 1787. Mr. Jethmalani has further urged that existence of motive to
 kill requires evidence of conspicuous and visible conduct on Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 958 the part of the accused persons. Mere disapproval of a
 particular action does not lead to the inevitable conclusion
 that you will kill any person whose conduct you do not
 approve of. It is urged that the totality of evidence led by the
 prosecution on this aspect, even if accepted as admissible,
 merely showed that Bharti Singh was contemplating
 opposition to her matrimonial alliance only from her father
 and no one else. It is submitted that there is total absence of
 evidence of any motive on the part of Vishal Yadav. Learned
 senior counsel has contended that the trial court has
 completely misguided itself when it observed that ―motive
 plays an important role in order to tilt the scale against the
 accused‖

1788. Learned senior counsel has contended that the evidence of
 motive, even if established, does not supply a link in the
 chain of circumstantial evidence. It is urged that motive is
 often a misleading circumstance and assurance of guilt must
 arise from other evidence. The chain of circumstantial
 evidence in order to bring home a finding of culpability of an
 accused person, must be complete and unbroken independent
 of evidence of the motive. 1789. It is urged that the prosecution had set up a case that the
 accused persons entered into a conspiracy when they saw the
 deceased at the wedding and thought it was a good
 opportunity to get rid of him. The submission is, that as per Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 959 the prosecution case, Vishal's only role was to bring Nitish
 out of the wedding venue. 1790. In the present case, death was by infliction of a blow of the
 hammer and therefore the prosecution must prove by
 unimpeachable evidence that Vishal Yadav was in the car at
 the time when Nitish Katara was hit with the hammer. 1791. Learned senior counsel has urged that in the instant case, the
 prosecution is using only the disclosure statement attributed
 to Vishal Yadav, and other than that, there is no evidence of
 his presence at the time of the crime or his participation
 therein. 1792. Ld. Senior Counsel has placed the pronouncement reported
 at (1999) 8 SCC 555 Ramashish Yadav and Ors. v. State of
 Bihar. In this case, the Supreme Court had laid down the
 principles governing Section 34 and had held as follows :- 1794. Our attention is drawn to Section 114 of the Indian Penal
 Code is a provision which is only brought into operation
 when circumstances amounting to abetment of a particular
 crime have first been proved and then the presence of the
 accused at the commission of that crime is proved in Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 961 addition thereto. Mr. Jethmalani submits that abetment does
 not in itself involve the actual commission of the crime
 abetted. It is a crime apart. It is the presumption raised by Section 114 brings the case within the ambit of Section 34 . 1795. Mr. R.K. Kapur, learned counsel appearing for Sukhdev @
 Pehalwan contends that the sole basis of conviction of
 Sukhdev @ Pehalwan rested on roping in Section 34 of the
 Indian Penal Code even though there was no evidence of
 common intention or of prior concert or meeting of minds of
 the accused persons and that none of the witnesses have
 attributed any motive to him. It is also argued on behalf of
 Sukhdev @ Pehalwan that it is not the case of the
 prosecution that any monetary benefit was received by him. 1796. It is contended by Mr. Kapoor that Sukhdev @ Pehalwan
 was not even named in the FIR lodged at the instance of
 Nilam Katara and that there is neither any evidence to prove
 any abduction by Sukhdev nor is any disclosure statement or
 recovery attributed to Sukhdev @ Pehalwan . It is also not
 the case of the prosecution that any monetary benefit were
 received by him. Learned counsel would contend that
 Sukhdev @ Pehalwan has been convicted by taking the help
 of Section 34 of the IPC but there is no evidence of common
 intention, prior concert or meeting of minds between the
 three appellants. The submission is that Sukhdev @
 Pehalwan was not related to Vikas Yadav and Vishal Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 962 Yadav. In the year 2001-2002, he was employed at the
 factory of Shri D.P. Yadav at Bulandshahr. This connection
 with Shri D.P. Yadav as an employer was too remote to
 establish any closeness or meeting of minds with the other
 co-accused. 1797. Mr. Dayan Krishnan, ld. Additional Standing Counsel for the
 State, has submitted at some length that this proposition
 argued on behalf of Vishal Yadav and Sukhdev @ Pehalwan
 are completely untenable in a case of circumstantial
 evidence. It is contended that for application of Section 34 of the IPC, an overt act is not required. 1798. In the pronouncement of the Supreme Court reported at
 (2000) 4 SCC 110 Surendra Chauhan v. State of M.P.
 relied upon by the appellants the following principles were
 laid down. ―11. Under Section 34 a person must be
 physically present at the actual commission of
 the crime for the purpose of facilitating or
 promoting the offence, the commission of
 which is the aim of the joint criminal venture.
 Such presence of those who in one way or the
 other facilitate the execution of the common
 design is itself tantamount to actual
 participation in the criminal act. The essence of Section 34 is simultaneous consensus of the
 minds of persons participating in the criminal
 action to bring about a particular result. Such
 consensus can be developed at the spot and
 thereby intended by all of them. (Ramaswami Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 963 Ayyangar v.State of T.N. [(1976) 3 SCC 779 : In the judgment reported at ( 2004) 4 SCC 371 Raju
 Pandurang Mahale v. State of Maharashtra and Anr. , it
 has been held as follows: The act need not necessarily be overt, even if it
 is only a covert act it is enough, provided such a
 covert act is proved to have been done by the
 co-accused in furtherance of the common
 intention. Even an omission can, in certain
 circumstances, amount to an act. This is the
 purport of Section 32 IPC. So the act mentioned
 in Section 34 IPC need not be an overt act, even
 an illegal omission to do a certain act in a
 certain situation can amount to an act, e.g. a co-
 accused, standing near the victim face to face
 saw an armed assailant nearing the victim from
 behind with a weapon to inflict a blow. The co-
 accused, who could have alerted the victim to
 move away to escape from the onslaught
 deliberately refrained from doing so with the
 idea that the blow should fall on the victim.
 Such omission can also be termed as an act in a
 given situation. Hence an act, whether overt or
 covert, is indispensable to be done by a co-
 accused to be fastened with the liability under
 the section. But if no such act is done by a
 person, even if he has common intention with
 the others for the accomplishment of the crime, Section 34 IPC cannot be invoked for
 convicting that person. In other words, the
 accused who only keeps the common intention
 in his mind, but does not do any act at the scene,
 cannot be convicted with the aid of Section 34 IPC.‖

 (Emphasis by us) Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 969 The Supreme Court has thus categorically held that Section
 34 of the IPC would be attracted even if no overt act is
 attributed to or proved against the individual concerned.
 Even an omission to do something may in a given case
 amounts to an act to attract Section 34 of the IPC. It is also
 trite that there is seldom direct evidence of common
 intention which would have to be inferred from the facts and
 circumstances of the case. The submission on behalf of the appellants that the
 prosecution must prove overt acts on their part to apply Section 34 of the IPC is not supported by the law on the
 subject. 1803. We may also consider the nuances of the expression
 ―common intention‖ and how it has been developed. In para
 62 of the judgment reported at (2011) 6 SCC 1 Satyavir
 Singh v. The State through CBI, the Supreme Court had
 observed as follows :- 1818. Where was the occasion for him to attend a stranger's
 wedding? Yet he not only accompanied Vikas Yadav to the
 venue but also proceeded to the dias and got himself
 photographed with a bridal couple whom he did not even
 know. It is important to note that Vikas Yadav did not go to
 the wedding with his family members. Instead he goes to
 the wedding in the company of Vishal Yadav and Sukhdev
 Pehlwan neither of whom had been invited to the wedding. 1819. There is evidence on record which would also suggest that
 the two brothers do not appear to have gone to the venue as
 guests at a function. The photographs on record depict the
 guests at the wedding as attired in formal business suits.
 Nitish Katara was dressed in a traditional red kurta with a
 churidar and a shawl. Bharat Diwakar was also dressed in a
 business suit and a tie. (Ex PW 6/2). Ex PW 6/3 and Ex PW
 6/4 depict the bride and groom with four other people,
 namely Sunil (Shivani's brother's friend), Vishal Yadav,
 Vikas Yadav and Rohit Gaur, from left to right. While Sunil
 and Rohit are dressed in business suits with ties, the
 appellants appear to have a style of their own, which is at
 variance with what one would expect guests to be attired in
 at a wedding. It is certainly not the attire of persons who
 claim to be using high-end cars such as a Mercedes, living
 on large estates, owning farm houses, having involvement in Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 978 multiple business, would wear to a formal function such as a
 wedding. 1820. It is the case of the defence that Vikas and Vishal Yadav left
 Shivani Gaur's wedding together and that they had to attend
 some function. The defence has claimed that the two
 together attended a function at the Gandhi residence at Raj
 Nagar, Ghaziabad after attending Shivani Gaur's wedding.
 DW-25 Bharat Diwakar has testified that he received a
 wedding invitation in January, 2002 while PW-26 Gaurav
 Gupta stated that he was living at Faizabad where he had
 received the marriage invitation of his batchmate Shivani. 1821. There is no evidence that Vishal Yadav was invited to attend
 this function. DW - 1 has referred to the Vij's having
 invited the family of Shri D.P. Yadav. It is obvious that the
 two of them were so close that they would accompany each
 other to functions where only one or the other may have
 been invited. They did things together. In order to be close,
 it is not essential that two persons have to be members of the
 same family. 1822. Let us now examine the prosecution case about the
 involvement and implication of Sukhdev @ Pehalwan . The
 police was groping in the dark as to what exactly had
 happened to Nitish Katara till the arrest of Vikas and Vishal
 Yadav in the present case and had no clue of the manner in Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 979 which he had been abducted and murdered. On 25 th
 February, 2002, these two accused persons made disclosures
 revealing the involvement of a third accomplice described by
 them only as ‗Pehalwan'. According to the Investigating
 Officer Anil Somania (PW-35 in Vikas and Vishal Yadav's
 trial and PW-22 in Sukhdev Pehalwan's trial) he also
 recorded the statement under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. of
 Bharti Yadav on the 2nd of March, 2002 (Exh PW 35/AB) in
 the presence of her father Shri D.P. Yadav as well as a lady
 police officer Anju Bhaduria. In this statement Bharti Yadav
 confirmed the involvement of a third person revealing his
 full name as ‗Sukhdev Pehalwan' also present with her
 brothers in the wedding on the night of the incident. Bharti
 Yadav also disclosed the fact that she knew Sukhdev @
 Pehalwan for the reason that he worked in the liquor shop
 run by her father in Bulandshahr, UP. 1823. The fact that this statement was actually given is manifested
 from the evidence of the action taken by the police
 immediately thereafter to trace Sukhdev @ Pehalwan . It is
 necessary to notice the police action premised on
 information revealed in these statements under Section 161 Cr.P.C. in some detail as Bharti Yadav resiled therefrom in
 the witness box and had to be cross examined by the
 prosecution. 1824. Therefore, we find unbelievable the subsequent statement by
 Bharti Yadav that she had not made the statement on the
 lines recorded on Ex. PW-35/AB. We may note that the
 learned Trial Judge has noted that Bharti Yadav turned
 hostile in court to assist the defence of her brothers. 1825. Till 2nd March, 2002, no other person had given the
 particulars of ‗Pehalwan' named on 25th February, 2002 by
 Vikas and Vishal Yadav in their disclosure statements. The
 police had no idea who he was or that he was employed in
 the liquor shop of the family of Vikas Yadav in Bulandshahr.
 This information was gathered by the police from the
 statement (Exh PW 35/AB) given by Bharti Yadav. 1826. No reason or motive is suggested by any of the appellants as
 to why Vikas and Vishal Yadav would make disclosure of
 fact that Sukhdev @ Pehalwan was involved in the
 commission of the offence or why Bharti Yadav or Ajay
 Kumar would take his name in their statements under
 Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. 1827. Anil Somania has revealed that a trap was accordingly laid
 for arrest of Sukhdev @ Pehalwan in Bulandshahr on 3rd
 March, 2002 but he could not be arrested. However the
 police was able to seize a guarantee card (Ex. PW-22/A1)
 bearing the photograph of Sukhdev @ Pehalwan with his
 complete address. 1828. On the next date, i.e., 4th March, 2002 Anil Somania
 recorded the statement under Section 161 of Ct. Satender Pal
 Singh (PW-10 in Sukhdev @ Pehalwan 's trial) wherefrom
 the presence and identity of Sukhdev @ Pehalwan in the
 Tata Safari vehicle with Vikas and Vishal Yadav as well as
 presence of the fourth person (whom in court he identified as
 a person wearing red kurta) on the night of 16/17 th February,
 2002 coming from Diamond Palace Banquet Hall was
 revealed. 1829. Further confirmation of the presence of Sukhdev @
 Pehalwan in the Tata Safari with Vikas and Vishal Yadav as
 well as deceased Nitish Katara on the fateful night is found
 in the evidence of Ajay Kumar Katara (examined as PW-33
 in Vikas and Vishal Yadav's trial and as PW-14 in Sukhdev
 Pehalwan's trial). In his testimony, Ajay Kumar/Katara
 stated that he could identify Sukhdev @ Pehalwan for the
 reasons that he had found Sukhdev @ Pehalwan conducting
 business in the liquor shop run by Shri D.P. Yadav and the
 accused persons in Bulandshahr area and that he was also
 seen in the company of Vikas and Vishal Yadav in the
 Ghaziabad area. 1830. Just as Vishal Yadav, Sukhdev @ Pehalwan was again a
 person not invited to the wedding. He gives no explanation
 for what he was doing with the two brothers at the Diamond
 Palace, Banquet Hall or for why he was there. 1831. The prosecution had led evidence of the spontaneous
 utterance early in the morning of the 17th of February 2002
 of Bharti Yadav to Nilam Katara. The evidence to this effect
 has been held to be admissible by us. The appellants were
 seen in the company of a person wearing red kurta in a Tata
 Safari vehicle coming from the Diamond Palace Banquet
 Hall on the night of 16th/17th February, 2002 at about
 12:00/12:30 a.m. by the police constables who were on
 patrol duty in police gypsy Chetak 13. It is in evidence that
 Nitish Katara had worn a red Kurta to the wedding. There is
 categorical evidence of Ajay Kumar Katara that it was the
 deceased who he had seen in the company of the three
 appellants in the Tata Safari vehicle around the same time at
 the Hapur Chungi. 1832. The deceased was found murdered shortly thereafter and his
 body discovered within a few hours. It has then been proved
 that pursuant to a disclosure statement made by Vishal
 Yadav, he got effected recovery of inter alia, the wrist watch
 of the deceased from the bushes where he had concealed it.
 To support this evidence, the prosecution has lastly relied
 upon forensic and other evidence to prove the case. 1833. Given the evidence on record and application of the principle
 laid down in State of West Bengal v. Mir Mohd. Omar (supra), the appellants and Sukhdev @ Pehalwan had to
 explain what happened to Nitish Katara or, if they parted Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 983 ways, how or when they did so. There is no such explanation
 on the record. The only possible inference therefore is the
 appellants were involved in the crime. 1834. In the instant case, the prosecution has led evidence of
 specific acts attributed to Vishal Yadav rendering him
 culpable under Section 34 of the IPC. 1835. The prosecution has firstly led evidence to establish that he
 is the one who took Nitish Katara away from his companions
 at the wedding. It has thereafter led evidence to prove that
 the deceased was last seen alive in the company of the
 appellants. 1836. The established facts and circumstances show that the
 accused persons shared a common intention to commit the
 offences which were committed in furtherance thereof. 1837. In the instant case which rests on circumstantial evidence
 alone, the existence of motive, actual presence of the
 appellants at the time of commission of the offence stand
 established. Therefore, by application of the principles laid
 down by the Privy Council in Barender Kumar Ghosh
 (supra), participation has to be presumed. The essential
 requirements of intention and in the present case
 participation as well thus stand established negating the
 challenge by the appellants. These findings stand fortified
 by the subsequent conduct of the appellants of abscondance Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 984 and leading false evidence of alibis, which we have
 separately discussed in detail. 1838. On application of the principles laid down in the above
 judgment, to the proved facts and circumstances noted by us
 hereinabove, it has to be held that the appellants were jointly
 responsible for commission of all criminal acts with which
 they were charged. XXIII Ajay Kumar Katara stands discredited in a sting
 operation conducted on him

1839. Mr. Sumeet Verma has further submitted that PW-33 Ajay
 Kumar stands discredited in a sting operation conducted on
 him on 25th March, 2008 and 23rd April, 2008 by the Metro
 Now and broadcast on a television channel. He has urged
 that the Metro newspaper in its 12th May, 2008 edition
 carried a report of such a sting operation. It is urged that an
 application was filed by the appellant Vikas Yadav on 12th of
 May, 2008 under Section 311 of the Cr.P.C. In this
 application, the applicant submitted that the witness had
 stated that he had planted evidence on the accused persons in
 order to rope them in the case and that he wanted to also
 rope in Shri D.P. Yadav in a false case at the instance of the
 complainant, some police officials and other political rivals.
 The applicant prayed that ―disk along with other relevant
 witnesses be called as witness or otherwise for just decision
 of the case". This undated application did not state that on Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 985 whose behalf it was being filed. No particulars or details of
 any witnesses were mentioned. 1840. The application was contested by the prosecution which filed
 a reply dated 22nd May, 2008 inter alia contending that the
 case was required to be decided on the basis of evidence
 recorded during the trial and not on the basis of evidence
 created through the media as the same lacked genuineness
 and authenticity and was not reliable. It was also objected
 that the applicant had failed to specify any particulars of the
 witness or the purpose of the same. No prayer for recall of
 Ajay Kumar was made in the application. The prosecution
 contended that the CD was false, fake and fabricated and
 liable to be discarded. The prosecution has submitted that
 Ajay Kumar had been examined, cross-examined at length in
 both the trials and discharged twice in the case without his
 testimony being shaken in his cross-examination. Detailed
 submissions about the harassment of the witness from the
 date when his statement was recorded on 18th March, 2002
 were pointed out which included pressure, intimidation,
 attempts to win him over, attempts at his life and attempts to
 rope him in false cases were also made. The prosecution
 pointed out that while recording his testimony in the
 Sukhdev trial, Ajay Kumar had stated that the family
 members of the accused persons were putting pressure upon
 him to secure an affidavit in their favour. Reference was Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 986 made to his repeated applications to the court. The
 allegations in the applications were denied as false and the
 application was stated as motive to malign the complainant
 as well as Ajay Kumar. 1841. The court heard arguments on this application and posted the
 matter on 24th May, 2008 for orders on the application. In the
 meantime, Ajay Kumar filed an affidavit on the 23rd of May,
 2008 that he had learnt about the alleged sting operation
 conducted on him as being claimed by a newspaper. He
 rushed to the court to file an affidavit with regard to sting
 operation conducted by the accused persons/ Shri D.P.
 Yadav in collusion with Subhash Yadav but he reached the
 court a little late and the affidavit was not accepted by the
 court reader. On the next date, the reader refused to accept
 the same on the ground that the court was on leave and he
 was asked to return at 3:00 p.m. The court had dispersed
 and the reader expressed inability to accept the affidavit and
 the application. The witness stated that when he came out of
 the court room, two or three persons connected with Shri
 D.P. Yadav stopped him and threatened him with dire
 consequences and told him to leave the court failing which
 his son and family would be liquidated. The witness stated
 that he got scared and left the court premises. 1842. On 17th May, 2008 and 19th May, 2008, the witness claimed
 that he received threats on his cell phones from Subhash Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 987 Yadav who warned him against going to court. A complaint
 was lodged with the Shahibabad Police Station in this
 regard. Because of threats which he was receiving, the
 applicant stated that he could not come to the court as he was
 being threatened that his son, who is in the custody of Shri
 D.P. Yadav, would be killed. The witness referred to the
 several applications and documents made before the court
 about the prevailing threat to him to make him change his
 previous statement in the court. Reference was made to his
 statement on oath on the 27th of July, 2007 in the trial of
 Sukhdev trial wherein the witness had stated that close
 relative and goons of Shri D.P. Yadav were pressurizing and
 threatening him to change his statement. The witness also
 referred to the following police reports filed by him:- - FIR No.639 of 2007 under Section 147 , 307 , 328 , 120B / 506 IPC, dated 18.07.07. that Shri D.P. Yadav through his
 accomplices administered poison to Ajay Kumar. - FIR No.938 of 2007 under Section 467 / 468 / 471 IPC dated
 15.09.07 against Shri D.P. Yadav and Ors. that they falsely
 tried to prove that Ajay Katara and Ajay Prashad/Sharma are
 the same person. - FIR No.115 of 2008 under Section 307 / 120-B IPC dated
 25.01.08 against Shri D.P. Yadav and Ors. that they at the Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 988 instance of Shri D.P. Yadav, attacked him with deadly
 weapon. - Several other complaints and FIR were registered against
 Shri D.P. Yadav and his henchmen. 1843. So far as the alleged sting operation is concerned, the
 witness referred to an incident on 25th March, 2008 when he
 claims that he was with Subhash Yadav with whom he
 consumed liquor. As Subhash Yadav was asking him
 inquisitive questions related to the case, in a bid to confuse
 him, Ajay Kumar claims that he made certain absurd, false
 and unnecessary statements as he knew that Subhash had
 connections with Shri D.P. Yadav and that whatever was
 stated, would reach him. On 23rd April, 2008, Ajay Kumar
 claimed that Subhash again called him as he was interested
 in getting into the property dealing business. The witness
 says that when he reached Subhash Yadav he was offered
 drinks . Under the total influence of liquor, Subhash Yadav
 again asked the witness about the case. In drunken bravado
 and to misguide him, the witness stated that he again made
 some unwarranted, unnecessary and absurd remarks which
 were not true. So far as reasons for doing so is concerned,
 the witness stated that he made these remarks keeping in
 view the welfare and safety of his son as he was being
 threatened that in case he did not help them, his son would Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 989 be killed. The witness submitted that he had not seen his
 wife and son for more than eight months and was terrified
 about his son's safety. The witness stated that Subhash
 Yadav had laced the drink. The witness denied all contents
 of the conversation which was part of the sting operation.
 Ajay Kumar testified that statements were made in extreme
 fear and in an inebriated condition. The witness categorically
 stated that he stood by his previous statements in court made
 on 31st May, 2003 and 27th May, 2007. 1844. The application came up for orders on 24 th May, 2008. The
 trial court noted that from the affidavit dated 23rd May, 2008
 of Ajay Kumar, it was clear that he was admitting the
 contents of the CD. In these circumstances, on the 24th of
 May, 2008, Shri G.K. Bharti, counsel for the appellant
 submits that he did not want to press the application filed
 under Section 311 of the Cr.P.C. as the same had become
 infructuous. 1845. The application was dismissed as such on the 24th of May,
 2008. The main case was thereafter posted for hearing on
 behalf of the prosecution and defence on the 26 th of May,
 2008. The order dated the 24th of May, 2008 of course was
 not challenged before any court. 1846. Thereafter a second application was filed on the 26th of May,
 2008 by Shri G.K. Bharti, Advocate on behalf of Shri Vikas Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 990 Yadav contending that the CD having been admitted by Ajay
 Kumar, the issue arose as to whether he had been given
 threats or administered drinks by Subhash Yadav. To
 establish this fact, the applicant sought examination and
 cross-examination of ―Shri Subhash Yadav and Shri Sharma
 and Ajay Kumar with security guard and other relevant
 witnesses like Smt. Tanu wife of Ajay Kumar and her
 parents‖ Vikas Yadav consequently prayed for summoning
 of Mr. Subhash; Mr. Sharma, Mr. Ajay Kumar with security
 guards and other relevant witnesses and prayed for an
 opportunity to examine and cross-examine the witness. 1847. This application was considered and dismissed by the court
 and by its order dated 27th May, 2008, it was observed that
 the trial stood concluded and that the judgment was to be
 pronounced on the next date. It was further observed that
 the earlier application under Section 311 of the Cr.P.C. was
 dismissed as not pressed on 24th May, 2008 and that the
 second application (which was under consideration) was
 only an attempt to revive the earlier application. 1848. The judgment in the case was pronounced on 28th May, 2008
 finding the appellants guilty for commission of the offences
 with which they were charged and the court further
 proceeded to hear the appellants on the issue of sentence on
 30th May, 2008. 1849. Mr. Dayan Krishnan, learned counsel appearing for the state
 has pointed out that so far as an application seeking
 examination of Tanu Chaudhary as a witness is concerned,
 the same stood already dismissed by an order passed on 14 th
 November, 2007. 1850. The orders dated 24th May, 2008 and 27th May, 2008 were
 not challenged before any court and attained finality. 1851. Before us, Mr. Sumeet Verma, learned counsel for the
 appellants has contended that without giving the appellants
 an opportunity to prove the falsity of the contents of the
 affidavit filed by Ajay Kumar, the trial court has placed
 reliance on the affidavit in the impugned judgment

1852. On the other hand, it is urged by Mr. Dayan Krishnan,
 learned additional counsel for the State that a statement
 made by a witness after the completion of his deposition in
 court is irrelevant and cannot be taken into consideration.
 Reliance is placed on the pronouncements of the Supreme
 Court reported at (2006) 9 SCC 368 Nissar Khan v. State of
 Uttarakhand and (2004) 12 SCC 229 Yaqub Ismail Patel v.
 State of Gujarat. 1853. In ( 2006) 9 SCC 386 Nissar Khan v. State of Uttaranchal ,
 two eye witnesses PW-1 and PW-2 stood cross-examined
 and discharged on 4th January, 2001. They were recalled on
 7th January, 2002 and re-examined by the defence on which Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 992 date all of them turned hostile and resiled from their
 previous statement. Another eye witness PW-4 had filed an
 application before the trial court that he had been threatened
 and intimidated by the accused not to depose against them.
 The court observed that it clearly appeared that the eye
 witnesses were won over by threat or intimidation after more
 than one year of their cross-examination and ultimately
 when the eye witnesses were won over by the accused, they
 were recalled and re-examined on 7th January, 2002. It was,
 however found that even on re-examination they supported
 the genesis of the incident and resiled from their previous
 statements only with regard to the identity of the accused.
 The court observed that the evidence on record showed that
 the accused and prosecution parties were at loggerheads
 because of business rivalry and were known to each other
 from before. By the time the witnesses were recalled, they
 were won over either by money, by muscle, pressure or
 threat or intimidation. With regard to the application for
 recall, the court observed as follows:- examination was recorded after about one year
 of the recording of their examination-in-chief.
 In cross-examination, the witnesses turned
 hostile as PW-1 has turned hostile in this case.
 The Supreme Court observed that the accused
 and the prosecution witnesses were at
 loggerheads and known to each other earlier. It
 was held that by that time the eye witnesses
 were recalled, they were won over either by
 money or by muscle power or by threats or
 intimidation. The testimony of the witnesses in
 examination-in-chief was thus relied upon for
 conviction of the accused.‖

1855. On the same aspect, reference has been made to (2004) 12
 SCC 229 Yaqub Ismail Bhai Patel v. State of Gujarat. In
 this case, PW-1 Munna @ Gheti had testified and
 corroborated the presence of the eye witness PW-2 at the
 spot. He also threw light on the conduct of the accused
 around the time of the incident. His testimony together with
 the testimony of the investigating officer corroborated the
 presence of PW-2 at the spot. PW-1 however subsequently
 filed an affidavit wherein he had sworn to the effect that
 whatever he had deposed before the court as PW-1 was not
 true and it was so done at the instance of the police. 1856. The observations of the court with regard to this affidavit in
 Para 39 of the report are relevant and read as follows:- 1864. The learned Trial Judge has noted several prior complaints
 by Ajay Kumar with regard to the apprehension to the life of
 his own and his son at the instance of Shri D.P. Yadav. Such
 complaints were made even as late as in March, 2008. The Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 998 learned trial judge has noted that the stand of the witness in
 his affidavit dated 23rd May, 2008 was not being taken for
 the first time and was not an after thought. The trial court
 has held that the statement in the sting operation is actually
 misleading. In the sting operation, the witness has allegedly
 stated that the blood on the hammer was that of the mother
 of the deceased and the hammer had been planted. The
 learned Trial Judge has noted that in the entire conversation
 on the CD (i.e., the sting operation), the witness does not say
 that on the night of 16th/17th February, 2002, he was busy in
 election and that he had not seen Nitish Katara in the
 company of the appellants in the Tata Safari bearing no.DB-
 07H-0085 at the Hapur Chungi at midnight. 1865. In his testimony on 27th July, 2007 in Sukhdev's trial, Ajay
 Kumar has deposed that so long as he lived in Delhi, he was
 getting threats from the side of Shri D.P. Yadav that he was
 a false witness and would be killed for making the complaint
 to the SSP Ghaziabad on 19th April, 2002. 1866. It is well settled that the testimony given by the witness
 during the trial which has to stand. In the instant case, the
 witness had testified not once, but has given identical
 testimony in two trials, the first on 31 st May, 2003 (In Vikas
 and Vishal Yadav's trial) and thereafter more than four years
 later, on 27th July, 2007 in Sukhdev's trial. Despite passage
 of four years and extensive cross examination, the witness Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 999 remained unshaken. No contradictions between his two
 statements could be pointed out by the appellants. The
 vehement reliance on the sting operation on behalf of the
 appellants is, therefore, misconceived and has to be rejected. 1867. In this background, even if the affidavit dated 25th May,
 2008 filed by Ajay Kumar/Katara to explain his position in
 the sting operation were to be ignored, the sting operation
 allegedly conducted on him is of no legal consequence and
 effect and deserves to be discarded. 1868. Sukhdev @ Pehalwan also filed an application dated 12th
 May, 2008 to re-examine PW-14 Ajay Katara after the sting
 operation. The trial court passed an order dated 19th
 February, 2009 dismissing this application. Sukhdev @
 Pehalwan assailed the trial court order by way of Crl.M.C.
 No.670/2009 in this court. Crl.M.C. No.670/2009 was
 dismissed by an order dated 6th April, 2009 passed by this
 court. This order has attained finality. So far as Sukhdev @
 Pehalwan is concerned, this issue also has received a quietus.
 In any event, for the very reasons noted above, the sting
 operation cannot be looked at for any purpose. 1869. In this background, we agree with the learned trial judges
 that it is a testimony of the witness in court recorded on 31 st
 May, 2003 and 27th July, 2007 respectively which has to be

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1000
 accepted. The sting operation carried out in 2008 is
 unreliable and does not any evidentiary value. XXIV Defects in investigation if any and impact thereof? Role of courts where investigation is tardy
1870. The learned trial judge in her judgment dated 28th of May,
 2008 has recorded that the IO was under the influence of the
 family of the accused persons. It is pointed out that even
 though Nilam Katara, mother of Nitish Katara has shown 85
 greeting cards, album, etc. to the IO which showed that
 Bharti and Nitish were in a deeply romantic relationship, he
 had taken the two most innocuous cards which too were
 suggestive of a mere casual friendship. The investigating
 officer PW-35 Anil Somania admits that Nilam Katara had
 shown him the cards and the bed sheet. It is observed that the
 intent of the IO clearly being to avoid evidence of motive
 coming on record. 1871. The IO has stated that he did not visit the spot where the
 dead body until 28th of February, 2002 which he visited at
 the instance of the accused. It is submitted that valuable
 evidence may have been destroyed and/or lost as a result. 1872. The investigating officer did not get a report with regard to
 the presence of any inflammable circumstance on the body
 of the deceased. He neither sent any soil lifted from the spot
 where the burnt body was recovered nor black ash which

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1001
 was recovered on 17th February, 2002 for a chemical
 examination. 1873. The testimony of Nilam Katara and other witnesses reflect
 several important facts which have not been recorded by the
 police in the statements under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C.
 made to it. 1874. The lapse of the investigating agency to seek the opinion of
 the doctor with regard to the recovered hammer during
 investigation has also been pressed in arguments. 1875. Mr. P.K. Dey, learned counsel for the complainant has
 submitted that the above omissions by the investigating
 officer were on important facets of the case. He points out
 that the prosecution committed some important mistakes. It
 is firstly urged that the prosecution abruptly dropped Bharti
 Yadav as a witness on 30th March 2005 and closed the
 evidence. It was the complainant who was compelled to
 challenge this order of the court permitting dropping of
 Bharti Yadav by filing Crl.Rev.P.No.315/2005 entitled
 Nilam Katara v. State and Ors. in this court. It was the
 learned Single Judge of this Court who had allowed the
 revision petition by the order dated 3rd October, 2005
 holding that Bharti Yadav was a material witness. 1876. We find that in this revision even the State had contended
 that she was necessary and material witness and asserted that

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1002
 she should be examined as the court witness under Section
 311 of the Cr.P.C. and that her testimony would have an
 important bearing on the outcome of the trial. The learned
 Single Judge has observed that the prosecution wanting to
 drop this witness on account of its not being able to secure
 her presence was an ‗act of despair' knowing fully well that
 its case would suffer and that such act of despair cannot be
 one which advances the ends of justice. 1877. Mr.Dey has pointed out that the revision petition was
 vehemently opposed on behalf of Vikas Yadav and Vishal
 Yadav, who were separately represented by Senior Counsel
 who had contested even the maintainability of the revision. 1878. Another mistake which has been pointed out by Mr. P.K.
 Dey is the action of the prosecution in exhibiting the
 statement of Kamal Kishore under Section 161 of the
 Cr.P.C. It is contended that the same was exhibited despite
 the prohibition under Section 162 of the Cr.P.C. The
 statement was given an exhibit mark in the testimony of PW-
 35 Anil Somania, an investigating officer, even though it
 could not have been proved by him. It is contended that the
 same is completely inadmissible and cannot be looked at for
 any purpose. 1879. Futhermore, on perusal of the call record of Nitish Katara's
 cell number 9811283641 (Exh PW 21/1), it appears that

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1003
 between 1st January, 2002 till 16th February, 2002 around
 1041 calls have been made to the cell phone number
 9811009998. Even on the 16th February, 2002, Nitish Katara
 had made six calls to the number 9811009998 between the
 period starting from 20:42:52 to 23:.33:38 hours (i.e,
 between 8:42 pm to 11:33 pm.)

1880. Similary, the call record of Bharti Yadav's cell number
 9810038469 (Exh PW 22/2), between 1st to 19th February,
 2002 reflects that 204 (two hundred and four) messages have
 been sent to one cell phone number 9810051914. Even on
 17th February, 2002, eleven messages have been sent from
 cell 9810038469 number 9810051914 between 7:32:58 to
 15:19:49 (i.e. from approx 7:33 am to 3:20 pm). Were
 Bharti and Nitish Katara using cell phones other than those
 whose call records stand proved in evidence? Perhaps the
 details of the persons in whose names cell phone number
 9811009998 and 9810051914 stood registered as well as
 locations from where calls made and received may have
 been relevant to the present case. Having obtained the call
 records, the investigating agency has unfortunately failed to
 analyze the documents. 1881. As per Nitin Katara he received five e-mails from Bharti
 Yadav marked Exh.PW-9/ Mark A-1 to A-5 to Nitin Katara
 between 19th and 24th of February 2002 which reflect her
 state of mind hence the contents of these emails were

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1004
 extremely relevant. Bharti Yadav denied having sent these
 mails. In the given circumstances, she could not be expected
 to do anything else. Establishing the correctness of Nitin's
 statement and verification of the e-mails was not a difficult
 matter, advancements in technology rendering it impossible
 to lie about these matters. However, the investigating officer
 completely failed to investigate into the matter to establish
 that these mails were actually sent by Bharti Yadav. These
 mails would manifest that till the 24th of February, 2002,
 Bharti was not aware that Nitish stood murdered on the night
 of the 17th of February, 2002! The e-mails declare her fear of
 her father and family. It is a shocking state of affairs that an
 educated 23 years young lady could be so terrorized and
 physically confined by her immediate family on the borders
 of Delhi, the capital of India and brow beaten into
 submission. The e-mails declare the involvement of Bharti's
 brothers in his abduction. 1882. It has been urged by Mr. P.K. Dey, learned counsel for the
 complainant that so far as the accused are concerned the
 investigation was fair, not tainted. The above omissions are
 important from the perspective of the prosecution. It is
 urged that the lapses in the investigation by themselves
 would not result in vitiating the trial as the rest of the
 evidence must be scrutinized independently. Learned

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1005
 counsel has urged that criminal justice cannot be a casualty
 on account of lapses committed by the investigating officer. 1883. This issue arose before the Supreme Court in 2000 SCC
 (Crl.) 61 State of Karnataka v. K. Yarappa Reddy where
 the court was called upon to consider the question of
 defective investigation as to whether any manipulation in the
 station house diary by the investigating officer could be put
 against the prosecution. In para 19 of the pronouncement,
 the court held thus:- otherwise the designed mischief at the instance
 of biased or interested investigator would be
 perpetuated and justice would be denied to the
 complainant party, and in the process to the
 community at large. 14. As was observed in Ram Bihari
 Yadav v. State of Bihar [(1998) 4 SCC 517 : 1887. Before this court, the appellants have contended that the
 investigating officer failed to make sketch of the hammer
 which was recovered. The investigating officer also failed to
 send the hammer for opinion of the doctor who conducted
 the port-mortem. The appellants have also challenged the

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1009
 testimony of witnesses of last seen together, on the ground
 that no TIP of the appellants was conducted. 1888. In Shyamal Ghosh (supra), these very objections were
 raised. In para 40, the Supreme Court observed that every
 discrepancy in investigation does not weigh with the court to
 the extent that it necessarily results in acquittal of the
 accused. The Supreme Court noted that the discrepancies
 pointed out in the case were lapses of immaterial
 consequence. The failure to prepare a site plan or to send
 gunny bags in which the body was recovered to the FSL was
 held not to be fatal to the case of the prosecution in the
 circumstances of the case. The Supreme Court adverted to
 judicial precedents observing as follows:- 1893. In (2004) 3 SCC 654 Dhanaj Singh @ Shera and Ors. v. State of Punjab, the Supreme Court noticed the possibility
 of the investigation being designedly defective and held
 thus: 1896. In Dayal Singh and Ors. v. State of Uttaranchal (supra), the
 Supreme Court in para 30, observed as follows:- Thus the investigation till 1st of March 2002 (which included
 the disclosure statements dated 25th February, 2002 and
 recoveries effected on 28th March, 2002) was on the record
 of the Chief Judicial Magistrate. (iii) A criminal revision was filed by the police before the
 Sessions Judge, Ghaziabad against rejection of their
 application for remand by the order of 1st of March, 2002 of
 the Chief Judicial Magistrate. This revision was dismissed
 on the 6th of March, 2002. (iv) The complainant Nilam Katara filed a W.P.(Crl.)
 No.22/2002, Nilam Katara v. Union of India which was
 listed before the Supreme Court on 26th February, 2002. (v) Crl.Writ No.247/2002, Nilam Katara v. Union of India and
 Others was filed on 27th February, 2002 in the High Court of
 Delhi seeking inter alia issuance of a writ of habeas corpus
 directing the respondents to produce Nitish Katara forthwith;
 writ of mandamus to establish with certainty and expedition,
 the identity of the charred human body recovered by the
 police. Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1019 (vi) Vikas Yadav and Vishal Yadav challenged the order dated
 8th March, 2002 passed by the Chief Judicial Magistrate,
 Ghaziabad granting police custody remand w.e.f. 2:00 pm on
 9th March, 2002 till 2:00 pm on 11th March, 2002 before the
 Allahabad High Court. Despite our queries, the appellants
 have not placed either the pleadings or the proceedings
 thereon before us. (vii) The appellants filed a writ petition before the High Court of
 Judicature at Allahabad. Though we asked parties for details
 of this case, nothing is forthcoming. (viii) The chargesheet was filed on 6th April, 2002 in the court of
 Chief Judicial Magistrate, Ghaziabad. After completion of
 proceedings under Section 207 of the Cr.P.C., on 16 th April,
 2002, the case was committed to the court of Sessions Judge.
 Thereafter, the case was fixed for 3rd May, 2002 for
 appearance of the accused persons. (ix) Transfer Petition No.449/2002 and Crl.Misc.No.5184/2002
 were filed by Nilam Katara before the Supreme Court
 praying for transfer of the proceedings from the Ghaziabad.
 By an order dated 22nd May, 2002, the Supreme Court stayed
 the proceedings in the Trial Court and finally by an order
 dated 23rd August, 2002 directed transfer of the trial to Delhi. 1899. It is also in evidence that S.K. J.K. Gangwar joined
 investigation as early as on 19th February, 2002 and was

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1020
 closely associated with S.I. Anil Kumar Somania throughout
 the investigation. Keeping in view the intricacies of the case
 on the 7th of March, 2002, S.I. J.K. Gangwar and S.I. Rakam
 Singh were appointed co-investigating officers. S.I. J.K.
 Gangwar was examined as PW34 in the trial of Vikas Yadav
 and Vishal Yadav and as PW19 in Sukhdev Pehlwan's trial
 wherein Anil Kumar Somania was examined as PW 35 in
 the trial of Vikas Yadav and Vishal Yadav and as PW22 in
 Sukhdev Pehlwan's trial. 1900. Learned senior counsel for the appellants as well as Mr.
 Sumeet Verma, Advocate have made extensive submissions
 that S.I. Anil Somania conducted the investigation
 dishonestly. It was contended that he had prior animosity
 and malice against Shri D.P. Yadav, father of Vikas Yadav
 and has therefore, falsely implicated the appellants in the
 present case. 1901. Learned counsels for the appellants have submitted that the
 testimony of Anil Somania has to be doubted for the reason
 that there are court orders against him with regard to the
 mala fide investigation. Reference has been made to a court
 order wherein adverse comments have been made with
 regard to the conduct of investigation by this police official
 in some other case. This fact by itself would not taint every
 official duty and investigation conducted by Shri Anil
 Somania. Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1021
 1902. In this regard, the defence had examined DW21 Advocate
 Samar Singh who adverted to tussles with the Investigating
 Officer when he was posted in District Sambhal which was
 Mr. Yadav's constituency because Shri Yadav had refused to
 supply liquor free of cost to the police. We find that the
 learned Trial Judge has considered the testimony of the
 defence witnesses at length and also carefully scrutinized the
 record with regard to this allegation of mala fide. DW21 had
 produced a certified copy of the judgment in Crl.Writ
 No.21955/2004 (Ex.DW21/A) entitled D.P. Yadav v. State of
 U.P. and Others in this regard. The witness had opined that
 Anil Somania had not investigated the matter fairly for the
 reason that he was not carrying a good reputation in P.S.
 Kavi Nagar which statement was based on no facts. 1903. The testimony of DW25 Jamshed Khan has also found
 unworthy of reliance by the learned Trial Judge. 1904. Before the learned trial court, the accused persons also
 asserted that they had been falsely implicated in the case by
 political rivals. In the given facts and circumstances, it is not
 possible to believe that the complainant, Nilam Katara could
 be influenced by political opponents of Vikas Yadav to
 falsely implicate accused persons for the gruesome murder
 of her elder son. Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1022
 1905. Nothing has been pointed out to us to enable us to take a
 contrary view. We have also noticed heretofore the fact that
 Anil Somania was not the sole investigating officer in the
 present case; that his work was being conducted under the
 supervision of Shri Prashant Kumar, Senior Superintendent
 of Police, Ghaziabad and that the investigation was being
 conducted under strict judicial scrutiny in several
 proceedings initiated not only at the instance of the accused
 persons but the complainant as well. 1906. The other ground urged in support of the challenge to the
 fairness of the investigation conducted by Anil Somania is
 the allegation by the appellants that he was under the
 influence of the complainant whose father was a senior
 police officer for which reason he had manipulated the case
 against the accused persons. In this regard, we find that the
 complainant Nilam Katara has stated that her father had
 retired more than 16 years back from the police. The learned
 Trial Judge has also noted the testimony of S.I. J.K.
 Gangwar who had stated that the complainant's father Shri
 A.N. Kaul was the S.S.P., Moradabad as back as in the year
 1971. The witness had stated that he learnt of Shri Kaul's
 relationship to Nilam Katara only in the witness box. No
 suggestions to the contrary have been given to the witness.
 There could thus be no question of influence of Nilam
 Katara's father over either the investigating officer or the

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1023
 investigation. Even if Shri A.N. Kaul wielded influence
 when in service, passage of seventeen years of retirement
 would have ensured that the same has dissipated. 1907. On a deep consideration of the matter, we are unable to find
 ourselves persuaded that the investigation in this case was a
 result of malicious intent against the accused on the part of
 the Ghaziabad police officials. First and foremost, Inspector
 Anil Somania was not the only Investigating Officer. In
 every step taken during the investigation, right from
 recording of statements of persons under Section 161 of the
 Cr.P.C. (including the examination of the appellants under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C.); arrests of the appellant,
 conducting raids, recording of statements, effecting searches
 and recoveries; pursuing the several petitions and cases filed
 by the complainant as well as the appellants in the Supreme
 Court of India, High Court of Delhi; High Court of
 Judicature of Allahabad; the court of the Chief Judicial
 Magistrate, Ghaziabad and court at Dabra, Distt. Gwalior,
 Inspector Anil Somania was assisted by other police
 officials, and was under scrutiny of higher officials as well. (ii) Submission that actions of the police officer investigating
 the case should not be believed
1908. The above discussion would show that the appellants have
 premised their challenge to the impugned judgments
 primarily on objections to the various steps taken by the

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1024
 investigating agency. Long arguments have been addressed
 with regard to the working of the IO Anil Somania and the
 various steps taken by him. It would appear that the entire
 case of the prosecution was to be rejected on the sole ground
 that the steps taken by the investigating agency as well as the
 testimony of the investigating officer was rendered suspect
 because they were part of the police force and therefore must
 be completely disbelieved. This submission is not warranted
 and the manner in which such suspicion must be treated is
 best stated in the words of the Supreme Court in the
 judgment rendered in (2001) 1 SCC 652 State v. Sunil. The
 court has also dealt with the commonly held perspective on
 the actions of the police officer investigating the case that
 they should be approached with distrust. Rejecting this
 notion, the Supreme Court has observed as follows: - Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1028
 1914. On 14th March, 2002, this court passed the following order in
 the presence of counsel for the appellants and the SSP
 Prashant Kumar, Ghaziabad: 1915. The police filed the status reports pursuant to the order of the
 court. Before the Division Bench hearing Crl.Writ
 No.247/2002, Vikas and Vishal Yadav were jointly
 represented. 1916. The appellants Vikas and Vishal Yadav thus at no point of
 time stated that the accused have not made any disclosure.
 No reference was made to any communication or application
 dated 26th of February, 2002 sent by them to the CJM,

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1031
 Ghaziabad. No dispute was laid to the fact that the
 recoveries were effected by the police at the pointing out of
 the accused. XXVI Conduct of accused persons

1917. A perusal of the impugned judgment would show that after
 considering the case in its entirety, the learned trial judge has
 examined the prosecution submission that in the present case
 of circumstantial evidence, the conduct of the accused
 persons is equally important and admissible in evidence.
 The consideration by the learned trial judge can be divided
 into the following headings: 1918. We now take up each of these above headings hereafter in
 seriatim: while Sukhdev Yadav set up an alibi that he was in his
 native village. and

(B) Vikas Yadav and Vishal Yadav led false evidence to the
 effect that they had gone to attend the marriage of Shivani
 Gaur on 16th February, 2002 in a Mercedes car and not in
 Tata Safari bearing no.PB 07H-0085. These points have been discussed at length earlier in this
 judgment and it is therefore unnecessary to repeat the same.
 We have only noted these here pointing out the conduct of
 the appellant in one place. (C) The appellants Vikas Yadav and Vishal Yadav made every
 possible effort to avoid appearance of Bharti Yadav, a
 material witness before the trial court resulting in
 substantial delay in trial as well as pressurised her into
 withholding material evidence and giving testimony which
 was prevaricatory and false. (i) The learned trial judge in the judgment dated 28th May, 2008
 notes the efforts made to avoid the appearance of Bharti
 Yadav, who finally appeared as PW 38 before the Court.
 The learned Trial Judge has referred to several orders
 wherein the court had noticed the conduct of Bharti Yadav
 and her non - appearance before the Court despite repeated
 summons and coercive process. The Court also noticed the
 intimidation of the witness during the trial. Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1034
 We may note that Bharti Yadav was not examined in
 Sukhdev Yadav's trial. (ii) At this stage, reference requires to be made to certain
 incidents and proceedings which have been highlighted by
 learned counsel for the complainant. It is in evidence that
 soon after Nitish Katara went missing in the night
 intervening 16th/17th February, 2002, Bharti was sent to
 Faridabad in Haryana, i.e., out of Ghaziabad, U.P.
 jurisdiction. Thereafter to avoid her testifying in court, in
 end of September/October, 2002, she was sent to U.K. (iii) The instant case is a prime example of the tyranny of well
 placed accused persons over the criminal justice system and
 how they treat the complainant, the investigation agency, the
 prosecution as well as the trial court. To appreciate the
 complete disrespect with which these two educated as well
 as well to do appellants treated the orders of the court and
 executed their malicious design to prevent Bharti Yadav
 from testifying in court as well as to protract the trial, it is
 essential to set down a summary of some of the court
 proceedings which we do so hereafter. (iv) In the instant case, the appellants Vikas and Vishal Yadav
 are brother and first cousin of Bharti Yadav - the prosecution
 witness who was to provide the evidence of motive. They are
 similarly related to Bharti's sister Bhawna Yadav. Shivani
 Arora was her best friend from childhood and obviously
 close of Bharti's family. If their testimony was true, then
 they would have ensured that such evidence, which belies
 the case of the prosecution, was brought out at the earliest,
 instead conscious efforts were made so that the witness
 stayed away from the trial for the period of almost three and
 a half years. During much of this period the trial came to a
 halt - while the Vikas and Vishal Yadav kept the
 prosecution entangled in applications before the trial court
 and petitions before this court. Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1035 (v) On 29th April, 2003 (C/414), the trial court has noticed that
 the summons issued to witness Bharti Yadav had come back
 with the report that she has gone to England and her mother
 refused to disclose her address. The court had noted that it
 intended to send summons for the appearance of the mother
 and father of Bharti Yadav for disclosing her address, at
 which the counsel for the accused persons stated that the
 address of Bharti Yadav will be informed by them in court.
 Yet the address was not furnished. However, counsel
 promised the court that they would furnish the address the
 very next day. (vi) In her testimony recorded on 3rd March, 2003, Nilam Katara
 as PW-30 had tendered several cards album and bed sheet in
 evidence. These cards were written by Bharti Yadav to
 Nitish Katara as noted above. The counsels for Vikas and
 Vishal Yadav had objected to their production on the ground
 that the witness was not the author of the cards and could not
 accept these cards. The trial court noted that Nilam Katara
 had stated that produced cards had been shown by her to the
 IO which he unfortunately did not seize. The trial court also
 observed that the author of the cards was another witness
 Bharti Singh who was a sister of the accused persons and
 had been cited as a witness. It was further observed that the
 summons had come back with a report that she had been sent
 to London for studies. So far as appearance of Bharti Yadav
 was concerned, the court noted that ―page 161 (A)" The same was accordingly dismissed as withdrawn. The
 matter, however, did not stop here. (xix) In the meantime, the trial court granted last opportunity
 again to the witness Bharti Yadav to appear in the Court on
 27th February, 2004. Shri C.K. Sharma, who was
 representing the witness was directed to inform the witness
 through her maternal uncle Shri Bharat Singh, who had filed
 the application on her behalf about the order and directed
 fresh summon as well. (xx) In the proceedings on the 27th of February, 2004, Bharti
 Yadav still did not appear. Her counsel put forth the excuse
 that she required permission from her university to remain
 absent for the duration of the recording of evidence. The
 learned Single Judge categorically noticed that it was crystal
 clear that the witness wanted to delay the case unnecessarily
 on one pretext or the other. The court observed that despite
 sufficiency of time having been granted and date chosen by
 her counsel, she had not appeared. Shri C.K. Sharma was
 not specifying another date. On submission of learned
 counsel for the State that holidays of Bharti Yadav would
 commence from 5th to 25th April, 2004, the court fixed the
 date as 15th April, 2004. At that stage, counsel for Bharti
 Yadav stated that the date should be towards the end of
 April. The court directed that Bharti Yadav should appear

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1041
 on 21st April, 2004 failing which the court would have to
 issue non-bailable warrants for her appearance. (xxi) On the 21st of April, 2004, Shri C.K. Sharma, counsel for
 Bharti Yadav stated that the Court approach her university.
 The Court noticed that the university had no role with her
 appearance as a witness and she was delaying the case
 unnecessarily on one pretext or the other. (xxii) The court also observed that no reply was being received
 from the Ministry of External Affairs and that there was no
 assistance from the Ministry in this regard. In this
 background, on 21st of April 2004, bailable warrants in the
 sum of Rs.25,000/- were directed to be issued against Bharti
 Yadav. Notice was also ordered to be issued to her under Section 350 of the Cr.P.C. At this stage, it was brought to
 the court's notice that Shri Bharat Singh, maternal uncle of
 Bharti Yadav was present in court and informed the court
 that she was likely to come in the third week of May. Shri
 Bharat Singh undertook to produce the witness in court on
 24th May, 2004. In view of this undertaking, though the
 court deferred issuance of the warrants, however, the
 summons were directed to be issued to her through the
 Secretary, Ministry of External Affairs and failing service,
 the Under Secretary (Legal) of the Ministry of External
 Affairs was directed to report presence in the court and to
 explain the delay. The court also directed Shri Bharat Singh
 to furnish the written undertaking till 4 p.m. of the same
 date. (xxiii) On 24th May, 2004, Bharti Yadav still did not appear despite
 the undertaking by her maternal uncle. An application with
 a copy of her medical certificate was made by Mr.Bharat
 Singh stating that Bharti Yadav had a fall from stairs and
 received injuries on her back and leg. Bharat Singh was
 directed by the trial court to appear on the 27th of May, 2004
 and to furnish the correct address of Bharti's hospital and her
 residence. Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1042
 (xxiv) In the hearing on 27th May, 2004, Shri Bharat Singh,
 maternal uncle of Bharti Yadav moved an application
 furnishing ―communication address‖ of Bharti Yadav, not
 her residential address. A direction was issued to him to
 furnish her residential address and to file the same in court
 within 48 hours. As the doctor in the medical certificate
 filed on behalf of Bharti Yadav, had advised four weeks rest,
 the court directed Shri Bharat Singh to produce her on 21st
 July, 2004. Summons for next date was also given to the
 officers of the Ministry of External Affairs. Shri Bharat
 Singh was also directed to give an undertaking to produce
 her on 21st July, 2004. Despite the clear directions, address
 of Bharti Yadav was furnished by Shri Bharat Singh only on
 5th June, 2004. (xxv) Neither Bharti Yadav nor Shri Bharat Singh appeared before
 the court on 21st July, 2004. The court directed that if Bharti
 Yadav does not appear on 27th September, 2004, non
 bailable warrants would be issued against her on 27th
 October, 2004 but not be executed till 27th September, 2004.
 The court directed Bharti Yadav to contact the Additional
 Public Prosecutor on his phone to show evidence of her
 availability. (xxvi) In yet another attempt to avoid Bharti's appearance and
 despite the rejection of the prayer at Bharti's instance up to
 this court, Vikas Yadav and Vishal Yadav filed a
 Crl.Misc.Case No. 2159/2004 under Section 482 of the
 Cr.P.C. praying for recording the evidence of Bharti Yadav
 through video conferencing or by commission. This petition
 was dismissed by a judgment dated 25th September, 2004 by
 the court, noticing that Bharti Yadav, the real sister of the
 accused, a material prosecution witness, who had gone
 abroad for pursing her studies, was under the control of

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1043
 petitioners (Vikas Yadav and Vishal Yadav) as well as their
 family members; and that the recording of her evidence
 through video conferencing or by commission would be
 highly prejudicial to the prosecution case. The court also
 noticed that such application filed by Bharti Yadav stood
 declined by the trial court by the order dated 23 rd December,
 2003 as well as by this court. The court also observed that despite withdrawing her
 Crl.Rev.Pet. No.43/2004, the witness still did not appear
 before the trial court on 27th February, 2004 on the pretext
 that she had suffered some spinal and foot injuries by fall. It
 is observed by the court that in support of her claim she had
 submitted a medical certificate from a ‗Gynaecologist'
 practicing in UK! The witness had not appeared despite
 undertakings before the trial court and consequently the
 court had additionally directed warrants to be executed only
 in case she did not appear in the hearing on 27th September,
 2004. This Court observed that the witness has not refused to come
 to India, but it appeared that she was evading her appearance
 before the Court for some reason or the other. The petition
 was consequently dismissed. (xxvii)Before the trial court, at this stage, Bharti Yadav filed two
 applications dated 22nd September, 2004 - one seeking
 exemption from personal appearance on the ground that she

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1044
 had been medically examined on 17th September, 2004 and
 advised further rest of four weeks; and the second being
 application for stay of the non-bailable warrants, which was
 directed by the court as back as on 27th July, 2004. (xxviii)Bharti Yadav filed Crl.Misc.Case No.2158/2004 in this
 court against issuance of the non-bailable warrants, which
 was dismissed by this court by an order dated 25th
 September, 2004

(xxix) On 11th October, 2004, the accused persons now filed
 an application for examining Bharti Yadav on commission
 on the ground that the prosecution had not been able to effect
 service upon her. The applicants submitted that they had
 given an undertaking before this court that they were ready
 to bear the expenses of the commission. It was complained
 that the accused persons were ―languishing in jail to the
 lethargy of the prosecution which is causing delay in the
 examination of the said witness through Cr.P.C .‖.
 Interestingly, an application was also filed on behalf of
 Bharti Yadav stating that she had suffered spinal injuries and
 was not permitted to go for a long walk or to take a long
 journey and that she was undergoing treatment through a
 doctor of Harley Street, London; that no official summon
 had been served on the applicant nor communication made
 with the University; that the ―prosecution agency is more
 interested in the harassment and humiliation of the
 applicant/witness and the complainant is harassing the
 witness socially as well as morally through the learned
 prosecutor‖; that she had showed her willingness in the
 month of September, 2003 when no interest was shown by
 the then prosecutor and no steps were taken by the court. A
 prayer was made that she should be examined through
 commission and the warrants issued against her be stayed or
 cancelled. (xxx) Both the applications dated 11th October, 2004 were rejected
 by an order dated 25th October, 2004 by the learned trial
 judge. It was directed that the NBWs already issued be

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1045
 executed. Shri Bharat Singh also furnished an undertaking
 to produce Bharti Yadav. (xxxi) No intimation with regard to appearance of Bharti Yadav
 was received by the court for the hearing on 18 th January,
 2005. (xxxii) It appears that Vikas Yadav moved yet another application
for bail which was rejected by an order passed on 25th October,
2004. (xxxiii) While on the one hand, Bharti Yadav was kept away
from the trial court, yet another application was filed by the Vikas
Yadav being Bail Application No.2070/2004 in this court as well,
which was decided by B.N. Chaturvedi, J by an order passed on 4 th
January, 2005. Vikas Yadav pressed this application urging that
the prosecution had to take effective steps for procuring presence
of Bharti Yadav to record her statement. In this regard, the
observations of the Court in the order dated 4th January, 2005 may
usefully be considered in extenso and read as follows: At the same time, an application was moved by Shri Bharat
 Singh on the same date to produce Bharti Yadav in view of
 the submission of the learned Public Prosecutor that the
 witness has stated that she had given her statement to the
 SSP, Ghaziabad and to the media and that she did not want
 to say anything more. The court granted 9 weeks time to
 execute the warrants already issued and adjourned the matter
 to 30th March, 2005. It was observed by the court that
 Vishal Yadav was admitted in Batra Hospital since January,
 2005. (xxxvi)On 30th March, 2005, the learned trial court noticed the
 receipt of the letter from the Government of India which
 recorded that the non-bailable warrants against Bharti
 Yadav could not be executed. The learned Public
 Prosecutor further stated that by reason of her being the
 real sister of accused Vikas Yadav and cousin sister of
 accused Vishal Yadav, she was not likely to support the
 prosecution case. In view of the fact that the Government of
 UK had refused to execute the non bailable warrants and he
 had no other means to procure her attendance under
 these circumstances, and therefore he had no other
 alternative but to drop her and proceed with the trial. In
 this background, the learned Public Prosecutor closed the
 prosecution evidence. (xxxvii)On 21st April, 2005, at the stage when the matter was fixed
 for recording the statement of accused under Section 313 of
 the Cr.P.C., the complainant Nilam Katara moved an

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1048
 application under Section 311 of the Cr.P.C. on which
 the order dated 21st April, 2005 was passed. (xxxviii) The complainant Nilam Katara also filed Crl. Rev. P.
 No.315/2005 titled Nilam Katara v. State in this court
 assailing the order of the learned Trial Judge dated 30th
 March, 2005 permitting the prosecution to drop Bharti
 Yadav. Crl.Rev.Pet.No.315/2005 was heard and allowed by
 this court by an order passed on 3rd October, 2005
 observing as follows:- In that view of the matter, the prosecution
 wanting to drop this witness on account of
 the prosecution not being able to secure her
 presence, is an act of despair knowing fully
 well that its case would suffer. Surely, an
 act of despair cannot be one which advances
 the ends of justice. The prosecution itself is
 claiming that this witness is necessary and
 material but should be examined as court

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1049
 witness under Section 311 of the Code of
 Criminal procedure since the prosecution is
 unable to secure the presence of this witness.
 This suggestion/argument of the State is best
 noticed and rejected. For if the court is finding
 it difficult to execute its summons and
 warrants on the witness at the instance of the
 prosecution, how will it be any easier for the
 court to summon this witness on its own. The
 procedure of summoning the witness, namely,
 that she is the sister of the accused, is neither
 here nor there as this was known to the
 prosecution at the time when this witness was
 cited in the first instance. The next ground
 that the witness will not support the
 prosecution's case is also not borne out from
 the record which it appears that the witness has
 made it known to the Public Prosecutor that all
 she had to say has already been disclosed to
 the Investigating Officer which is her
 statement under Section 161 of the Code of
 Criminal Procedure. Surely this cannot be said
 to be not supporting the prosecution's case.
 And as regards securing the presence of the
 witness, the court is not without powers and
 can resort to any means available to it in law.‖
 (Emphasis by us)
(xxxix)Three years had passed and sister of the accused
 persons had still not appeared. Before the trial court,
 Bharti Yadav still did not appear on 27th April, 2006. No
 report on the non-bailable warrants issued by the court was
 furnished by the Ministry of Home/External Affairs
 compelling the court to issue notice to the officer in the
 Ministry of Home who was dealing with the matter. Mr.B.S.
 Joon, Spl. PP placed on record a copy of the order dated 7 th
 March, 2006 whereby the High Commission of India had
 revoked the passport of Bharti Yadav. Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1050
 (xl) On 15th July, 2006, the file was taken on an application of
 Vikas Yadav, on which a report was called from the Jail
 Superintendent for 17th July, 2006. At 11.30 a.m., Shri D.P. Yadav, father of the witness Bharti
 Yadav appeared before the court and made a request to take
 up the case again. Sh.B.S. Joon, Spl. PP for the State was
 called. The court records that: It is impossible that Shri D.P. Yadav did not know the

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1051
 address of his daughter (whom he must be supporting) or of
 his friend who he claimed had met her and non-disclosure of
 her address was deliberate and malafide. (xlii) Our attention is then drawn to the order dated 28th
 September, 2006 which records the presence of Sh.S.K.
 Bhuttan, Advocate for Shri Bharat Singh, an attorney of
 Bharti Yadav. The order notices that the proclamation under Section 82 of Cr.P.C. was issued against Bharti Yadav on the
 last date of hearing and that as per the report dated 5th
 September, 2006 from the Ministry of Home Affairs, the
 order had been duly served upon her on 3rd August, 2006.
 Despite service of the proclamation at her address, 33,
 Sutton Way Heston, Middlesex TW-501, UK, she has not
 appeared for recording of evidence. Sh.Bhuttan, Advocate
 submitted that Shri Bharat Singh would produce Bharti
 Yadav before the court during the first week of November
 and he would confirm the date from Bharti Yadav personally
 with the assistance of his client about her visit to India on a
 specific date. A week's adjournment for arranging the exact
 date when Bharti Yadav would be coming to India was
 sought, if all arrangements of her travel, to and fro UK, were
 made by the State and the media was kept away from the
 witness. Upon receipt of an assurance on all counts from the
 Special PP, the case was adjourned to 6th October, 2006 for
 Sh.Bhuttan to provide the information of the date when the
 witness was travelling. In the meanwhile, the order under Section 82 of the Cr.P.C. was kept in abeyance. The State's
 application dated 23rd September, 2006 under Section 83 of
 the Cr.P.C. for attachment of the properties of the witness on
 account of non-appearance in response to Section 82 ,
 Cr.P.C. proclamation was also kept pending for the next date
 of hearing. (xliii) On 6th October, 2006 Sh.Bhuttan filed an application
 intimating the court the intention of Bharti Yadav of
 appearing in court and that she would be in India from 25 th
 to 28th November, 2006. The court consequently fixed the
 matter for her appearance and recording of her evidence on

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1052
 25th November, 2006 keeping the process under Section 83 of the Cr.P.C. in abeyance. (xliv) Finally, on 29th November, 2006 (almost three and a half
 years after her appearance was first required on 29th April,
 2003), Bharti Yadav appeared before the court with her
 counsels and her statement was partly recorded as PW-38 till
 1.30 p.m. The matter was deferred after lunch at which stage
 she requested for an adjournment on the ground that she is
 not feeling well and her statement was deferred to 10.30 a.m.
 on 30th November, 2006. The evidence of this witness was
 recorded in camera and directions were issued by the trial
 court to the court staff from giving any interview to the
 electronic or print media with regard to the court
 proceedings. Vikas Yadav did not attend the court proceedings even
 though he was present in the lock up on 29th and 30th
 November, 2006, when Bharti Yadav was examined as
 witness. We are appalled at the indulgence given to the accused
 persons and this witness and pained at the manner in which
 these accused persons have treated the orders directing
 production of their sister for a period of three and a half
 years. 1919. Bharti Yadav was a highly educated and empowered adult as
 per the material on record. She had travelled to and was
 studying in the UK. It is reasonably expected that she was
 aware of her responsibilities as a citizen of this country,
 more so, when she was in admitted knowledge of the court
 processes against her. Yet she was under the total control of
 her family. Not only were her movements after the night of

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1053
 16th February, 2002 under their control but she was also
 deprived of any means of communication. She was shifted
 out of Ghaziabad on the 17th of February 2002 and then sent
 to U.K. towards the end of September/October, 2002. Her
 statement under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. was permitted to
 be recorded only in the presence of her father Shri D.P.
 Yadav. 1920. From the records of the case, it appears that Bharti Yadav
 was first summoned as a witness on 29th April, 2003. Despite
 repeated assurances as well as undertakings to the court she
 deliberately did not appear for this considerable period.
 Undertakings were given on her behalf as well as several
 assurances that she would appear and give her testimony.
 However, the matter reached such an impasse that the court
 had to issue NBWs, which were duly served; commence
 proceedings in accordance with Section 82 of the Cr.P.C.
 issuing a proclamation which was also served on her and an
 application for attachment of properties in accordance with Section 83 of the Cr.P.C. had been filed by the State to
 secure her presence. Even these court proceedings did not
 persuade Bharti Yadav to appear in the court. The
 brazenness of the accused was to the extent that even though
 she was studying in London, the accused disclosed an
 address in Nottingham, U.K for her. The court thereby was
 compelled to keep issuing process for appearance at this

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1054
 address. No change of address of the witness was informed.
 Even her father who appeared before the court to avoid
 issuance and execution of NBWs, feigned ignorance of the
 address of his daughter. This statement, to say the least, is
 completely unbelievable and reflects a deliberate attempt to
 keep the witness away from the court. The record of the Trial
 Court shows that she appeared in court only after steps for
 revocation of her passport stood taken. 1921. We may be accused of presuming that the appellants
 contributed in any manner to the efforts of the Bharti Yadav
 to stay away from the court and that there is no basis for this
 presumption. Realities cannot be ignored and we would fail
 in our duty if we were to close our eyes to the hard fact that
 Bharti Yadav was the sister of Vikas Yadav and the first
 cousin of Vishal Yadav. Her father and uncle Shri Bharat
 Singh actively engaged on her behalf and appeared several
 times before the court. Most of the defence witnesses
 including witnesses who were advocates, are closely
 associated with Vikas Yadav's father. It is established that
 the Tata Safari vehicle stood registered in the name of M/s
 Oswal Sugar Ltd. and Shri D.P. Yadav, father of Vikas
 Yadav was one of its Directors. The vehicle was recovered
 at the instance of the accused persons at the premises of A.B.
 Coltex, Karnal, a firm in whose management Shri D.P.
 Yadav had interest. Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1055
 1922. Before us, it was suggested that the appellants have nothing
 to do with Bharti Yadav's conduct. An unfortunate stand,
 given the identity of the objective pursued by all of them as
 well as the aim sought to be achieved. Closely related,
 assisted by father and maternal uncle Mr. Bharat Singh
 (from whose phone lines, Nitish Katara had also received
 phone calls), the above narration is a prime example of what
 literate, well to do and politically connected individuals are
 able to do to prevent justice in a criminal trial, and then
 bemoan mistrial and delay. 1923. The influence, reach and sheer arrogance of the accused
 persons is writ large on the face of the record. The impunity
 with which court orders have been flouted and undertakings
 to produce the witness have been repeatedly violated, reflect
 the mindset of the accused persons. Brazenly the parent of
 the witness has avoided providing contact details of his own
 daughter. The court was deliberately misled by providing an
 address in Nottingham when Bharti was studying in London.
 They have acted with the misplaced confidence that nothing,
 even the court, can touch them, an attitude confident that
 their wealth and position places them above other citizens
 who are duty bound to abide by constitutional values, the
 law, and court orders. 1924. The above narration manifests that for the appearance of one
 witness closely related to Vikas and Vishal Yadav, the trial

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1056
 court had to wait for three and a half years. The appellants
 were in custody. It can reasonably be expected that if
 innocent, they would have wanted to get acquitted of the
 charges and be released from prison at the earliest. This
 conduct of and on behalf of the accused points towards guilt
 of these appellants. (D) Intimidation of witness : Ajay Kumar/Katara (a public
 witness to the deceased having been last seen alive in the
 company of the three appellants) has been threatened and
 pressurized by and at the instance of the appellants and
 their family members. 1925. It has been argued before us that in order to pressurize him
 into not giving a statement and, thereafter, withdrawing it,
 the only public witness Ajay Kumar / Katara with regard to
 the deceased having been last seen alive in the company of
 the appellants, was threatened with dire consequences by and
 at the instance of Shri D.P. Yadav father of Vikas Yadav. He
 was also roped into false and frivolous complaints and
 criminal cases initiated at the behest of persons who were
 allegedly either stooges of or related to Shri D.P. Yadav in
 Ghaziabad and elsewhere. 1926. We propose to consider the material on this aspect in detail
 as it is this aspect which is one major cause for the
 reluctuance of members of the public in coming forward to
 give evidence. We summarize the position qua Ajay Kumar
 Katara hereafter: According to Ajay Kumar, the IG gave direction to the SSP,
 Ghaziabad in his presence to provide security to Ajay Kumar
 for going to court. (vi) Even on the 31st of May, 2003, the day the witness Ajay
 Kumar was examined as PW-33, he had moved an
 application before the trial court that he was being

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1058
 pressurized by the accused persons not to appear as witness
 and that there was a threat to his life and property and that he
 was unsecure. It was stated that he has one gunner since
 April, 2002 provided by the UP Police but at least two
 gunners be granted to him; stating that there was tremendous
 pressure on him for not deposing in court. Ajay Katara
 stated that he felt danger to his life and was feeling insecure
 and that the security of one gunner already granted to him
 was insufficient. On this application, the court had observed
 that the fear expressed by the witness Ajay Katara did not
 seem to be unfounded and consequently had directed the
 Director General of Police, Lucknow, UP to do the needful
 for the security of the witness and to see that no harm is
 caused to him. The court specifically directed that if the
 witness suffered physical harm, the court would hold the
 Director General responsible for the same. (vii) The matters did not end with Ajay Kumar's deposition. On
 the 22nd of July, 2003 - another application was made by
 Ajay Katara stating that a conspiracy was being hatched
 against him and that the police of Ghaziabad was trying to
 implicate him in a false case; that some Daroga and
 Inspector of PS Vijay Nagar, Ghaziabad were threatening
 him day and night. The witness stated that on 20 th July,
 2003 he was taken to PS Vijay Nagar and made to sit there
 by the SO of Vijay Nagar; that there he was physically
 tortured and told that he had taken cudgels with a powerful
 man and he would get his face displayed in the TV and
 newspaper so that he could be identified by the goons of that
 powerful man and done away with. The witness also stated
 that a case of eve-teasing would be made against him and he
 would be shown on TV and implicated in this case. It is also
 stated by the witness that he has informed the DIG, Meerut
 Zone of the entire matter and then only the SO, Vijay Nagar
 allowed him to go out of the station. The SO made him sign
 on some blank papers and that SO, Vijay Nagar and mahila
 SI Praveen Saxena have threatened him and, therefore, he
 had come to the court. Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1059 (viii) By the order dated 22nd of July, 2003, the learned Additional
 Sessions Judge, Patiala House, New Delhi had issued the
 following directions:- By the order dated 15th October, 2007 this application of the
 witness was also sent in original to the DIG, Meerut Zone
 for making the necessary investigation of the allegations
 leveled by the witness Ajay Katara against Shri D.P. Yadav
 and to take action as warranted. (xiv) The impugned judgment notices that in the application, Ajay
 Katara had also stated that he was being threatened of being
 crushed under a truck and to be burnt with his family in a
 brick kiln. He alleged that on 1st July, 2007, the goons of
 Shri D.P. Yadav had fired at him with the intention to kill
 him. Thereafter on 11th July, 2007 he was administered
 poison in snack food by the goons of Shri D.P. Yadav
 regarding which a case was registered with PS Sahibabad,
 District Ghaziabad and that three persons were also arrested
 in the case. The witness complained that Shri D.P. Yadav
 was looking for an opportunity to kill his wife, son and his
 parents-in-law and then falsely implicate him in the case.
 The witness alleged that on 10th October, 2007 he had learnt
 that Shri D.P. Yadav had levelled false allegations against
 him in a press conference and that further he was informed
 about the threats to his life from Shri D.P. Yadav by the
 President of Rashtriya Parivartan Dal. (xv) On 29th October, 2007 the file was again taken up by the trial
 judge on yet another application of the witness Ajay Katara
 about the threats to his life and to the members of his family
 at the hands of Shri D.P. Yadav, the father of the accused
 Vikas Yadav. This application was also sent by the trial
 court to the DIG, Meerut Zone with the directions to

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1062
 investigate the matter and to provide him additional security. (xvi) The witness alleged that 8 times attempts have been made on
 his life at the instance of Shri D.P. Yadav. The witness
 alleged that his wife Tanu Chaudhary and son Priyanshu
 Katara were under the influence of Shri D.P. Yadav who had
 threatened to kill them as well as her family members. This
 application was also sent by the trial court to the DIG,
 Meerut zone for investigation and to provide additional
 security to the witness. (xvii) It appears that the matter was investigated and a reply dated
 18th November, 2007 was submitted by the DIG, Meerut
 zone to the Additional Sesions Judge, Patiala House, New
 Delhi reporting that Shri D.P. Yadav was involved in 29
 criminal cases out of which 9 cases were under Section 302 IPC. It was reported that keeping in view the above,
 provisions had been made for the security of the witness. The ld. trial court has considered this deeply distressing
 aspect of the case. Matters did not end even with the above.
 The appellants have referred to an alleged sting operation
 conducted on this witness when the case of Vikas and Vishal
 Yadav was at the stage of hearing of final arguments. The
 trial court has noted the explanation of the witness and
 doubted the operation. We have agreed with the ld. Trial
 Judge. It would seem that despite his testimony having been
 recorded as back as on the 31st of May 2003, Ajay Kumar
 Katara was subjected to threats, continues to be under
 pressure and threat for having appeared as a witness. Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1063
 (E) Witnesses deposed either out of fear, pressure, threat or
 because of the influence of their relationship with the
 accused persons. 1927. The record reflects that the accused persons in the present
 case wielded political influence as well as economic and
 physical power. Vikas Yadav and Vishal Yadav stood
 implicated in another major offence. The variations in the
 evidence of the witnesses between the statements recorded
 by the investigating officers under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C.
 shortly after the incident and the court testimony establishes
 the pressure which has been borne by the witnesses which
 included private guards as well as constables of the
 Ghaziabad police. It has been pointed out by Mr. P.K. Dey,
 learned counsel for the complainant that the testimonies of
 the witnesses lead to an irresistible conclusion that they have
 not deposed freely which is glaring from the face of their
 testimonies. 1928. The trial court records also show that Anil Somania was not
 the sole investigating agency. He was assisted by S.I. J.K.
 Gangwar. Different witnesses have given narrations of
 different aspects of the matter. The facts told to the police in
 the statements under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. contain
 details which would be within the knowledge of a person
 who had made the statements alone and nobody else. It is
 also noteworthy that the statements under Section 161 of the

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1064 Cr.P.C . have been recorded in the case diary as per the
 police. The testimony of the investigating officers with
 regard to the statements under Section 161 Cr.P.C. recorded
 by them has not been challenged by any of the accused
 persons. Taken as a whole, it is not possible to accept that
 the witnesses did not give statements under Section 161 of
 the Cr.P.C. with which they were confronted. 1929. Interestingly, the witnesses have faltered over the same
 aspects of the case. For instance, Shivani Arora nee Gaur,
 Bhawna Yadav and Bharti Yadav have tried to establish that
 Vikas and Vishal Yadav left the wedding venue on the night
 of 16th February, 2002 at 11:30 pm and that the deceased
 Nitish Katara was still at the wedding at 1:00/1:30 am on
 17th February, 2002 i.e. long after the accused persons had
 departed from the function. 1930. Ct. Inderjeet Singh (PW-28 and PW-12 in Vikas and Vishal
 Yadav's and Sukhdev Yadav's trial respectively) attempted
 to put the accused persons and the deceased into separate
 vehicles in court - Vikas and Vishal in a long car, while
 Nitish with one more person were in a Tata Safari. He
 refused to identify the occupants in the Tata Safari in which
 he claimed the deceased was sitting. 1931. The testimony in court was in total contradiction to his
 statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C. (Exh.PW-28/A)

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1065
 recorded on 4th March, 2002. He was confronted with the
 portions of Exh.PW28/A in translations whereof read as
 follows: The Supreme Court observed that there should
 not be any undue anxiety to only protect the
 interest of the accused. That would be unfair
 to the needs of the society. On the contrary,
 efforts should be made to ensure fair trial
 where the accused and the prosecution both
 get a fair deal. Public interest in proper
 administration of justice must be given as
 much importance if not more, as the
 interest of the individual accused. The
 Supreme Court held that the courts have a vital
 role to play.‖
 (Emphasis by us)

1962. The instant case is a classic example of the extreme need for
 witness protection in the criminal justice system and
 empowerment of witnesses, especially those pitched against

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1079
 high profile and well connected influential accused persons.
 What chance does a lowly constable or a common citizen
 stand against not only the wealth, but the political might of
 the accused persons as well? 1963. This case also amply illustrate the helplessness of the trial
 judge who is empowered only able to reassure the witness or
 direct the police to give protection to him or her. Certainly
 that is small solace for the witness who has to coexist in the
 community within the reach and the terror of the accused
 persons. 1964. We feel compelled to note the trauma of the complainant in
 the present case. Nilam Katara got not a moment to grieve
 her uncompensable loss. From seeking a proper DNA
 examination to confirm the identity of her son's body to
 ensuring police investigation and then seeking transfer of the
 trial from the court at Ghaziabad, UP to Delhi, this mother
 has moved heaven and earth to keep the wheels of justice
 rolling. Sitting alone in the courtroom, crowded with
 relatives and well wishers of the accused persons as well as
 their teams of experts, she has made no grievance against the
 pressure she must have faced and influence to which
 witnesses have been subjected. Truly a crusader, she has
 kept her eyes trained on a fair completion of the trial. Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1080
 (F) Vikas and Vishal Yadav deliberately misled the police with
 regard to the recovery of the Tata Safari vehicle. 1965. We have considered the conduct of the appellants with
 regard to the recovery of Tata Safari at length earlier in this
 judgment, especially the manner in which they did their
 utmost to frustrate the police remand for effecting the
 recovery of the vehicle and also the manner in which they
 misled the Investigating Officers and the police team with
 regard to the location of Tata Safari. 1966. Vikas and Vishal Yadav deliberately misled the police on the
 28th of February, 2002 when they took the police to three
 places in Alwar for recovery of Tata Safari even though they
 were aware of the fact that the vehicle was not there, only
 with the intention of wasting the limited 24 hour police
 remand granted by the court for effecting the recovery. They
 thereafter successfully obstructed the Investigating Officer in
 obtaining their custody from Dabra on 23rd February, 2002
 and again manipulated delay in their committal into the
 police remand at 2:00 pm on 9th March, 2002, (when the
 police custody remand was to start) till about 10:30 am on
 10th March, 2002. Thereafter again to waste time, they first
 took the police to a taxi stand behind a cremation ground,
 Panipat and only thereafter led the police party to the A.B.
 Coltex premises in Karnal and got the Tata Safari recovered. Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1081
 (G) Every effort was made to intimidate the Special Public
 Prosecutors to prevent them from discharging functions
 and obligations freely and fairly. 1967. The extent of the reach of the accused persons comes to the
 fore from the intimidation of S.K. Saxena, Public Prosecutor
 and Mr. B.S. Joon, Special Public Prosecutor. Shri S.K.
 Saxena was appointed by the U.P. Government as a Special
 Prosecutor when the case was originally pending before the
 Sessions Court at Ghaziabad. He continued with the trial
 even after the transfer of the case to the Sessions Court in
 Delhi. At this stage, when the sessions trial was almost
 complete, an order dated 28th January, 2004 was passed
 whereby Shri Saxena was removed from the post of the
 Special Prosecutor. This would have certainly adversely
 impacted the prosecution and obviously assisted the defence. 1968. Nilam Katara challenged this order by way of a writ petition
 being W.P.(Crl.)No.25/2004 before the Supreme Court of
 India contending that the removal of the Special Prosecutor
 at the advanced stage of the trial would seriously impact fair
 and proper trial of the case. On the 26th of March, 2004, the
 Supreme Court observed that it seemed that Shri Saxena was
 not willing to continue as Special Prosecutor. 1969. The Delhi Government submitted before the court that as the
 case was being tried by the Sessions Judge at Patiala House,
 New Delhi, a Special Prosecutor could be appointed by the

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1082
 Delhi Government and that the name of Shri K.K. Singh, a
 senior prosecutor was available for conducting the case. The
 accused persons appeared as intervenors before the Supreme
 Court and stated that they would have no objection to such
 an appointment. The Supreme Court directed fixation of the
 remuneration payable to Shri K.K. Singh and directed that
 the same shall be paid by the State of U.P. It was further
 directed that the trial be expedited and completed at the
 earliest. 1970. It appears that after the case was transferred, the complainant
 filed a W.P.(Crl.)No.25/2004 before the Supreme Court
 which was disposed of with the following observations: This complaint sought issuance of summon to respondents
 no.1 to 4 including Shri S.K. Saxena in accordance with Section 499 / 500 IPC. (ii) It appears that a Civil Suit No.255/2004 was also filed
 by Vikas Yadav against Shri S.K. Saxena before the Court of
 Civil Judge (SD) Ghaziabad. (iii) Shri S.K. Saxena filed two transfer petitions before the
 Supreme Court; one being Transfer Petition (C)
 No.355/2004 (seeking transfer of the civil case) and Transfer
 Petition (Crl.)No.137/2004 [seeking the transfer of the
 criminal complaint (Complaint No.3823/2004)]. The
 Supreme Court passed an order dated 5th May, 2004 issuing
 notice to the respondent and in the meantime stayed the
 further proceedings in both the cases. (iv) We may notice the manner in which Shir B.S. Joon
 was treated. A legal notice dated 16th November, 2006 was
 sent on behalf of both Vikas Yadav as well as Vishal Yadav
 by Shri Rajender Chaudhary, Advocate to Mr. B.S. Joon
 alleging that he had given misleading interview to the
 various TV channels and print media and made defamatory
 allegations against the said appellants and required the
 learned Special Public Prosecutor to pay a sum of Rs.20
 crores as damages within three days and publish in
 print/electronic media an unconditional apology failing
 which, action for damages and criminal action could be
 initiated. (v) On the very date of receipt of this notice, Mr. Joon,
 Special Public Prosecutor was compelled to file an
 application dated 18th November, 2006, complaining that the
 notice was an attempt on part of the accused persons to
 overawe and intimidate the Prosecutor so as to hinder and
 obstruct him from conducting the case properly and in a fair

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1085
 manner. He also asserted that the issuance of the notice
 requires appropriate action against the accused person under
 the Contempt of Court Act . (vi) It appears that the complainant Nilam Katara filed
 Crl.M.C.No.7756/2006 in this court as regards the service of
 the said notice. Notice was issued by this Court in the
 petition and by an order dated 4th December, 2006, the Court
 posted the matter for addressing this issue on the next date. (vii) On 18th December, 2006 in Crl.M.C.No.7756/2006,
 the learned senior counsel for Vishal Yadav stated that they
 shall withdraw the notice dated 16th November, 2006 served
 on Shri. B.S. Joon, Special Public Prosecutor and shall not
 take any legal action pursuant thereto. The learned Single
 Judge noticed that as a result, the application filed on 18 th
 November, 2006 by the Special Public Prosecutor and
 Crl.M.C.No.7756/2006 would become infructuous which
 was accordingly dismissed. (viii) We were informed that pursuant to the statement made
 before this Court in Crl.M.C.No.7756/2006, Shri Rajender
 Chaudhary issued a notice dated 20th December, 2006 to Shri
 B.S. Joon, learned Special Public Prosecutor stating that he
 was withdrawing the said notice dated 16th November, 2006
 and that his client would not initiate any legal action or
 proceedings pursuant thereto (Ex.DW3/P2). It is noteworthy
 that Vikas and Vishal - the accused persons were both being
 represented by Shri Rajender Chaudhary (DW - 3) and he
 had issued the legal notice dated 16th November, 2006 on
 their behalf to the Special Public Prosecutor . The letter
 dated 20th November, 2006 withdrawing the same was also
 issued by him on their behalf. 1973. The learned trial judge has noted this conduct and
 commented that the accused Vikas Yadav and Vishal Yadav
 did not even spare the Special Public Prosecutors. Their

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1086
 actions have required the intervention of the Supreme Court
 and this court as noted above. 1974. The learned trial judge has relied upon the pronouncement of
 this court reported in 2007 Crl. LJ 2626 (Delhi High Court)
 entitled H. Syama Sundara Rao v. Union of India and Ors. wherein this court pronounced on the issue of casting of
 aspersions and extending threats by issuing notices to the
 counsel for other side and the duty of the court in the
 following terms:- 1978. Mr. P.K. Dey, learned counsel appearing for the complainant
 has strongly disputed the filing of any such application as
 well as the authenticity of the record relied upon. 1979. It is noteworthy that on the 26th of February, 2002 the
 Investigating Officer filed the application for a 3 day police
 remand of Vikas and Vishal Yadav on which the CJM,
 Ghaziabad had directed that these appellants be summoned
 for the 27th of February, 2002. As noted above, twenty four
 hours police remand was actually granted. Four separate
 sets of advocates filed two applications - one on behalf of
 Vikas Yadav and the second on behalf of Vishal Yadav
 wanting to accompany the accused persons during the police
 investigation while they were on police remand. There was
 not a single word in either the applications or proceedings
 recorded on 27th of February, 2002, either on the order
 passed on the remand application or in the orders passed on
 the applications by the appellants, of any protest to the effect
 that they were being falsely implicated or that they had not
 made any statement to the IO. No reference therein was

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1090
 made to any previous application filed on 26th of February
 2002 by the accused. Thus at no point of time did the appellants oppose the
 applications of the police for remand on the ground that no
 disclosure statements were made by them. On the contrary,
 they, with alacrity, only sought permission of the CJM
 Ghaziabad that their counsel be permitted to accompany
 them while they were on police remand. 1980. Another pertinent question which arises is that, but for the
 disclosure of the Tata Safari by the accused persons, the
 police had no idea about the details of the vehicle which was
 used by them for the commission of the offence or its
 location on the 25th of February, 2002 till 6th of March, 2002
 when the order extending the police remand was passed. 1981. The order of the Sessions Court dated 6th of March, 2002
 extracted by us notices the recoveries pursuant to the
 disclosures and that the Tata Safari vehicle was yet to be
 recovered. But for the appellants taking the police to three
 places in Alwar on 28th February, 2002 and thereafter on
 10th/11th March, 2002 to different places till finally the
 vehicle was recovered on the pointing out of the appellants
 at Karnal, the police would have been groping in the dark
 with regard to the location of the vehicle. Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1091
 1982. Even while arguing the application for police remand, the
 accused persons make no reference to these two applications
 as would be evident from the order dated 6th March, 2002 of
 the Sessions Judge and 8th March, 2002 of the CJM,
 Ghaziabad. 1983. We find that on all applications, filed before it, the CJM has
 called in report from the police and also endorsed orders
 thereon. These two applications came to be addressed to the
 court. No order is endorsed thereon. 1984. On the contrary based on the disclosure statement, the
 applications by the police for remand for effecting recoveries
 of the disclosed articles were accepted by the court as well as
 by the accused persons who merely sought leave that they
 may be accompanied by counsel. 1985. Where is the question of any court permitting police remand
 if allegations of false implication and fabrication of
 statements were received by it? If such applications were
 actually made by the appellants on 26th of February, 2002,
 the accused persons would have objected against the police
 action before not only the CJM but the Sessions Court and
 the High Court as well, which the appellants did approach to
 challenge the second order of police remand. Notice stood
 issued on 28th February, 2002 in Crl.Writ No.247/2002 filed

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1092
 by Nilam Katara in which the two brothers were a party. No
 protest was lodged by the accused. 1986. These applications dated 26th February, 2002 have not been
 placed before the learned Trial Judge in the opening
 statement by the Senior Counsels who have argued at length
 before this court. We find substance in the submissions
 made by learned Additional Standing Counsel for the State
 as well as learned counsel for the complainant to the effect
 that no such application was made. There was also no
 occasion to record a fourth order on 27th of February, 2002
 which, for the first time, is being placed before the court in
 the appellants arguments in rejoinder and is not known to
 either the State or the counsel for the complainant. 1987. The original record shows that while the file is maintained in
 chronological order, inexplicably the above two applications
 have been inserted between the documents dated 10 th March,
 2002 and 15th March, 2002. 1988. Perusal of the trial court proceedings would shows that at no
 point of time have the appellants informed the court about
 the alleged application dated 26th February, 2002. No
 reference was made to it even during the arguments before
 the learned trial judge and no reference thereto is found in
 the impugned judgment dated 28th May, 2008. This suggests

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1093
 that the documents may have been introduced on the record
 of the trial court after the passing of the judgment. 1989. The appellants have rendered themselves liable for
 appropriate proceedings for such actions. However passage
 of time has intervened and the record has been transmitted
 from the lower court to the High Court for hearing in the
 present appeals which has been subjected to preparation of
 paperbooks by photocopying the record as well as scanning
 in the scanning department for the purposes of its
 digitalization. Even if an inquiry was directed, it may not be
 possible to pin point exactly who is responsible for the
 insertion of these documents. However the fact that only the
 respondents would gain therefrom who have relied upon
 these documents even before this court would show that
 none other but one or all of the appellants are responsible for
 this. 1990. To conclude the above discussion on the conduct of the
 accused persons, therefore, without diluting the settled
 principle of criminal law that the burden of proof rests
 wholly on the prosecution, a time has come for courts to
 evaluate the conduct of the accused in obstructing the truth
 being brought out, especially in respect of witnesses over
 whom they have control, or influence, of any kind - mental,
 emotional or physical - be it because of relationship,
 authority, political clout, wealth, or otherwise. Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1094
 1991. The accused has a constitutional protection to remain silent. The cardinal principle of criminal jurisprudence that the
 accused person is presumed innocent till proven guilty
 beyond doubt applies with all force to the criminal trial.
 However neither of these dictates, mitigates from
 constitutional duty and public law obligation including those
 implicated in criminal offences not to obstruct the
 investigating agency as well as to assist expeditious trial and
 adjudication by the court in arriving at the truth and
 delivering justice. It is the solemn responsibility of every
 person including accused persons in criminal trials to ensure
 that witness are not suborned, influenced or pressurized in
 any manner; that vital evidence is not destroyed. Thus while
 the burden of proof with regard to commission of an offence
 rests on the prosecution, however, there is a fundamental
 duty upon the defence to ensure that the trials are not
 protracted or fair trial prevented by any action which could
 be attributed to them. 1992. The above principle stands reiterated by the Supreme Court
 in the pronouncement reported at ( 2009) 6 SCC 767
 National Human Rights Commission v. State of Gujarat when the court ruled thus:- One glaring fact must be noted is that this certainly is not a
 conduct of innocent persons who have been falsely
 implicated for commission of heinous crimes but that of
 persons who after committing the crimes, systematically set
 about destroying evidence and misleading the investigating
 officers as well as creating false defence pleas to defeat their
 prosecution. 2000. One aspect of this conduct of accused persons seldom talked
 about is the huge demand it makes on the investigation
 agency and the criminal justice system both in terms of
 manpower but also from the point of view of public funds
 which are compelled to be expended. Just to visualize the
 expenditure incurred on the 28th February, 10th/11th March is
 mind boggling. The public exchequer has had to provide for
 the Ghaziabad police personnel required to escort two
 accused persons - first to go to Dabra to secure custody;
 proceed with them to Alwar and then again to Panipat - both
 places where nothing was to be recovered - and then to
 Karnal. Not to say the incidental costs of transportation

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1100
 boarding, etc. The already stretched police force can ill
 afford such fruit less exercises. No provision of our
 Constitution of India or the law entitles accused persons to
 abuse the protections afforded to them in this manner and to
 deliberately misguide investigations and the courts. 2001. The prosecution can ensure a fair trial and constitutional
 rights of the accused only if the accused do not impede it
 from discharging its duty. The victim, and when not the
 same person, the complainant as well, have the same
 constitutional and legal rights. 2002. The time has come that an inference needs to be drawn
 against the accused persons who deliberately mislead
 investigators; suborn witnesses; destroy evidence; win over
 crucial witnesses; protract the trial so that crucial evidence is
 lost or forgotten by witnesses. 2003. This case also highlights the unfortunate reality that trial
 courts are faced with. The education, economic status,
 position occupied by the witness is immaterial when accused
 persons go about exercising influence - it is only the nature
 of the influence which may vary - so as to succeed in their
 dishonest designs. 2004. This case has distressed judicial conscience not only because
 of the manner of commission of the crime, but also because
 of the staunch efforts made to obstruct the process of

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1101
 dispensation of justice. What is also of grave concern is the
 manner in which related witnesses are pressurized and
 prevented from rising above their relationships and speak the
 truth to further the cause of justice. 2005. In these circumstances, undoubtedly the learned Trial Judge
 has proceeded undaunted to overcome every hurdle put in its
 way in ensuring the constitutional mandate to it. With
 securing the ends of justice as its only objective, the learned
 Trial Judge has ably and efficiently discharged its statutory
 duty of completion of the trial. XXVII Principles governing probative value of
 circumstantial evidence
2006. Before this court, the challenge by the appellants rests on
 elaborate submissions on examination of individual
 circumstances which have been proved by the prosecution
 on matters of minute details during the two trials. 2007. The principles on which circumstantial evidence and its
 probative value has to be tested, stand authoritatively laid
 down by the Supreme Court in the judgment reported at
 ( 2010) 8 SCC 593, G. Parshwanath v. State of Karnataka wherein the Supreme Court laid down as follows:- Each fact sought to be relied upon must be
 proved individually. However, in applying this
 principle a distinction must be made between
 facts called primary or basic on the one hand
 and inference of facts to be drawn from them on
 the other. In regard to proof of primary facts,
 the court has to judge the evidence and decide
 whether that evidence proves a particular fact
 and if that fact is proved, the question whether
 that fact leads to an inference of guilt of the
 accused person should be considered. In dealing
 with this aspect of the problem, the doctrine of
 benefit of doubt applies. Although there should
 not be any missing links in the case, yet it is not
 essential that each of the links must appear on
 the surface of the evidence adduced and some
 of these links may have to be inferred from the

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1103
 proved facts. In drawing these inferences, the
 court must have regard to the common course of
 natural events and to human conduct and their
 relations to the facts of the particular case. The
 court thereafter has to consider the effect of
 proved facts. 24. In deciding the sufficiency of the
 circumstantial evidence for the purpose of
 conviction, the court has to consider the total
 cumulative effect of all the proved facts, each
 one of which reinforces the conclusion of guilt
 and if the combined effect of all these facts
 taken together is conclusive in establishing the
 guilt of the accused, the conviction would be
 justified even though it may be that one or more
 of these facts by itself or themselves is/are not
 decisive. The facts established should be
 consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt
 of the accused and should exclude every
 hypothesis except the one sought to be proved.
 But this does not mean that before the
 prosecution can succeed in a case resting upon
 circumstantial evidence alone, it must exclude
 each and every hypothesis suggested by the
 accused, howsoever, extravagant and fanciful it
 might be. There must be a chain of evidence so
 complete as not to leave any reasonable ground
 for the conclusion consistent with the innocence
 of the accused and must show that in all human
 probability the act must have been done by the
 accused, where various links in chain are in
 themselves complete, then the false plea or false
 defence may be called into aid only to lend
 assurance to the court.‖

 (Underlining by us)

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1104
 2008. Mr. Ram Jethmalani has objected at length that the learned
 Trial Judge has referred to proof by ‗preponderance of
 evidence'. We find that even though the learned Trial Judge
 in the judgment dated 28th May, 2008 has referred to
 preponderance of evidence however, further discussion is
 clearly referring to proof beyond reasonable doubt. The
 learned Trial Judge has in fact evaluated the cumulative
 effect of all the circumstances proved beyond reasonable
 doubt during the trial while arriving at the finding that the
 circumstances lead to no other hypothesis except
 establishing the guilt of the accused persons. 2009. Mr. R.K. Kapoor, ld. counsel appearing for Sukhdev @
 Pehalwan has placed reliance on the pronouncement of the
 Supreme Court reported at (2006) 10 SCC 172 (paras 27-28)
 Ramreddy Rajesh Khanna Reddy v. State of A.P. in support
 of his submission that in the instant case the prosecution had
 failed to prove an unbroken chain of circumstances which
 leads to only the conclusion of guilt of his client Sukhdev. 2010. In Ram Reddy Rajesh Khanna Reddy (supra), the court has
 reiterated the well settled legal position that with a view to
 base a conviction on circumstantial evidence, the
 prosecution must establish all the incriminating
 circumstances by reliable and clinching evidence and the
 circumstances so proved must form a chain of events as
 would permit no conclusion other than one of the guilt of the

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1105
 accused; that suspicion, however grave it may be; cannot be
 a substitute for proof and the court shall take utmost care in
 finding an accused guilty only on the basis of circumstantial
 evidence. The court also reiterated that the last seen theory
 comes into play where the time gap between the point of
 time when the accused and the deceased were last seen alive
 and the deceased is found dead, is so small that the
 possibility of any person other than the accused being the
 author of the crime becomes impossible. Even in such a
 case, the court should look for some corroboration. 2011. It is trite that the court has to consider if the facts and
 circumstances stand proved beyond reasonable doubt and the
 cumulative effect of such circumstances. The evidence led
 by the prosecution in the instant case has been examined on
 these legal principles. XXVIII Nitish Katara's murder - an ―honour‖ killing? 2012. The present case again brings to the fore a malaise which
 still afflicts Indian society that finds its roots in entrenched
 social structures based on religion, caste and economic
 standing. What is of special concern is that such divisive
 forces exist even on the borders of Delhi - the nation's
 Capital, which is also a cosmopolitan city. Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1106
 2013. It is in evidence that Bharti's family was opposed to her
 association or any kind of alliance with Nitish Katara on the
 ground that he was not from the same caste and that he
 belonged to a service class family. While she was a Yadav,
 Nitish was a Katara. Bharti came from a well placed
 business class family with her father also being a member of
 Parliament. Nitish Katara's father was in government
 service and they lived in official accommodation. Nitish
 Katara was certainly not in the same income bracket of
 Bharti's family. 2014. On behalf of the appellants submissions have been made
 before us as if these stated reasons for the opposition are
 trivial would not incite such violence so as to lead to murder
 of a person. Not only is this submission completely
 misplaced but is contrary to the existing realities in India.
 Several instances of murder on account of opposition of a
 family member or members to an association or alliance with
 a person of a different caste, sub-caste, religion or economic
 strata leading to murder have been documented. Already
 there is a valuable pool of judicial precedents involving
 adjudication in such killings (including those of the Supreme
 Court) which is growing! Such offences motivated by
 abhorrence to inter-caste association or alliances arise from a
 totally misplaced sense of ‗honour' linked with caste

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1107
 structures and have been labelled as ‗honour killing' - truly
 a misnomer. The case of the prosecution squarely brings the murder of
 the Nitish Katara within the meaning of the expression
 honour killing. 2015. In a judgment of this court reported at 176 ( 2011) DLT 630
 Abdus Sabur Khan v. Union of India & Ors. , the petitioner
 sought exemption from her deportation to Bangladesh on the
 ground that she feared for her life if she returned as she had
 got married by her choice to an Indian citizen. While
 accepting this plea, the court had made the following
 comment:- The family members of Bharti Yadav, including Vikas
 and Vishal Yadav, were opposed to this relationship.
 The aversion stemmed from the reason that Nitish
 Katara did not belong to the same caste as Bharti
 Yadav and because his family belonged to the service
 class, therefore, was not in the same economic
 stratification as them. This provided the motive for
 the brothers to commit the offence and Sukhdev @
 Pehalwan shared in this motive. (ii) Nitish Katara and the appellants were present at the
 Diamond Palace Banquet Hall which was the wedding
 venue of Shivani Gaur (friend of Bharti Yadav) at the
 same time on the night of 16/17th February, 2002. (iii) Vishal Yadav and Sukhdev @ Pehalwan had not been
 invited to the wedding and had no reason for being
 there, other than perpetration of the crime. Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1117 (iv) Nitish Katara was abducted from the wedding venue
 by the appellants with the common intention to
 murder him. (v) At around midnight, Nitish Katara was seen with the
 appellants in a Tata Safari vehicle at a short distance
 from the Diamond Palace Banquet Hall (15-20 steps at
 a turn where a police patrol gypsy Chetak 13 was
 parked) where the wedding was being held. (vi) The deceased was last seen alive at around
 12:20/12:30 am at the Hapur Chungi by prosecution
 witness Ajay Kumar Katara in the company of the
 three appellants in the Tata Safari vehicle which was
 being driven by Vikas Yadav. Nitish was seated in the
 front passenger seat next to the driver while the other
 two appellants sat in the rear seat. (vii) In furtherance of their common intention Nitish Katara
 was thereafter murdered by the appellants. (viii) After murdering Nitish Katara, the appellants removed
 his clothes, wrist watch and mobile from his person
 and set aflame his dead body with the intention of
 preventing identification of the body and destroying
 evidence of the commission of the offence. (ix) Immediately after the incident, the three appellants
 absconded. Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1118 (x) The dead body of Nitish Katara was found at 9:30
 a.m. in the morning of 17th February, 2002 in a
 completely burnt, naked and unidentifiable condition
 on the Shikharpur Road which was recovered by the
 Khurja Police. (xi) The time at which the deceased was last seen alive in
 the company of the appellants was proximate to the
 time when he was murdered as well as the subsequent
 discovery of his body. (xii) As Nitish Katara did not reach his residence after the
 wedding, Nilam Katara lodged a police complaint of
 her son being missing with the police station Kavi
 Nagar, Ghaziabad at about 11:30 a.m. on the 17th of
 February, 2002 which was registered as FIR
 No.192/02 under Section 364 of the IPC. (xiii) The post-mortem had been conducted on the
 recovered dead body at 3:30 p.m. on the 18 th of
 February, 2002 by Dr. Anil Singhal, Orthopaedics
 Surgeon at the District Hospital, Bulandshehr. As per
 the post-mortem (Exh.PW3/3) the cause of death was
 death due to coma as a result of ante-mortem head
 injury with post mortem burns. (xiv) The body was having a lacerated wound on the head, a
 fracture in the skull, laceration and hematoma in the
 brain immediately below the fracture. The doctor had

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1119
 opined the head injury to be sufficient to cause death
 in ordinary course of nature. (xv) The intimation of the recovery of the dead body was
 given by the Khurja Police to the Ghaziabad Police on
 the 19th February, 2002. The body was identified by
 Nilam Katara on 21st of February 2002 as that of her
 missing son Nitish Katara from his unburnt left hand.
 The report dated 7th of March, 2002 of the DNA
 examination confirmed the identity of the dead body
 as that of Nitish Katara. (xvi) Vikas and Vishal Yadav stage-managed their arrest at
 Dabra, Madhya Pradesh at 4:00 a.m. on the 23rd of
 February, 2002. They were brought to Ghaziabad
 police under orders of transit remand by the Judicial
 Magistrate, Dabra and produced before the CJM,
 Ghaziabad on the morning of 25th of February 2002.
 (xvii) The investigating officer recorded the statements
 under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. of these appellants in
 the Ghaziabad jail on the night of 25th February, 2002
 in which Vikas and Vishal Yadav made separately
 disclosure statements about knowledge of the place
 where the crime was committed as well as the place
 where the dead body was burnt and the fact that one
 ‗Pehalwan' was their accomplice. Both of them also
 stated that the Tata Safari vehicle which had been used
 on the fateful night could be pointed out by them. Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1120
 Vikas Yadav additionally disclosed that he could point
 out the place where the hammer used in the offence
 had been hidden by him. Vishal Yadav also additionally disclosed in his
 statement that he could get recovered the wrist watch
 and mobile of the deceased which had been hidden by
 him. (xviii) On the 28th February, 2002, Vikas and Vishal Yadav
 accompanied by their counsel Shri Satpal Singh
 Yadav, Advocate pointed out to the police the spot
 near Aughwar Railway Crossing where the crime was
 committed and then the spot where the body was burnt
 and the site plans were prepared. Thereafter after
 searching for the same amongst the clump of ‗pattel'
 bushes, which were two to three feet high, Vikas
 Yadav got recovered an iron hammer with blood
 stains on its narrow end. Vishal Yadav searched in
 another clump of ‗pattel‟ bushes and got recovered
 therefrom a wrist watch of the make Espirit.
 A joint recovery memo of the articles was recorded on
 the spot itself which was signed by Vikas and Vishal
 Yadav and given to the counsel Shri Satpal Singh
 Yadav there and then who acknowledged its receipt on
 the document. (xix) On the 28th of February 2002, Vikas and Vishal Yadav
 thereafter deliberately misled the police and took them

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1121
 to three places in Alwar (Rajasthan) to search for Tata
 Safari vehicle which was obviously not there.
 (xx) On the 11th March, 2002, Vikas and Vishal Yadav
 jointly misled the police to the taxi stand behind
 Shamshan Ghat (cremation ground) in Panipat to
 search for the Tata Safari which was again not there,
 and, enroute to Chandigarh for the same purpose, got
 recovered the Tata Safari vehicle bearing registration
 no.PB-07H 0085 recovered from the burnt down
 factory premises of M/s A.B. Coltex Limited. The
 management of this firm was controlled by Oswal
 Sugar Limited, a company in which Shri D.P. Yadav,
 father of Vikas Yadav was a Director. The recovered
 Tata Safari Vehicle was also owned by the same
 company. (xxi) The serologist report dated 6th March, 2002 confirmed
 that the blood on the narrow end of the hammer head
 was human blood. (xxii) A Test Identification Pararde of the recovered wrist
 watch of ESPIRIT make was conducted on 2nd April,
 2002. This wrist watch was identified by Nilam
 Katara, mother of the deceased as the watch worn by
 the deceased Nitish Katara on 16th February, 2002 to
 the wedding. (xxiii) The appellant Sukhdev @ Pehalwan remained
 absconding for over three and half years despite

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1122
 extensive searches, raids; issuance of coercive
 process; attachment even at his native village. He
 could be arrested only on the 23rd of February, 2005
 after he fired at police patrol party. 2029. We have noted above the submissions of ld. Additional
 Standing Counsel for the State premised on the presumption
 under Section 106 of the Evidence Act and the reversal of
 burden of proof. We have also discussed the explanation of
 the appellants and the evidence led by the defence and that
 the appellants miserably failed to discharge the burden of
 proof upon them to show as to what happened to the
 deceased after he was last seen alive in their company. The
 appellants were required to establish that they parted
 company with each other and/or the deceased, and the
 circumstances in which they had done so as well. The
 appellant have failed to discharge this burden. Applying the
 principles laid down by the Supreme Court in State of West
 Bengal v. Omar Mir Mohd. (supra), presumption would
 follow that the appellants are responsible for commission of
 the crimes. 2030. The appellants set up false defences which have been
 disbelieved by us which provides additional linkage to the
 chain of proven circumstances against the appellants. Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1123
 2031. In ( 2000) 1 SCC 225, C.K.Raveendran v. State of Kerala the Supreme Court stated that ―the prosecution must prove
 each of the circumstances having a definite tendency
 pointing towards the guilt of the accused and though each of
 the circumstances by itself may not be conclusive but the
 cumulative effect of proved circumstances must be so
 complete that it would exclude every other hypothesis and
 unequivocally point to the guilt of the accused". 2032. We find that there is a growing sense of public
 accountability of the criminal justice delivery system. The
 public concerns are best articulated, again in the words of
 V.R. Krishna Iyer, J. when he wrote for the Bench in the
 judgment reported at ( 1973) 2 SCC 793, Shivaji Sahabrao
 Bobade & Anr. v. State of Maharashtra as follows: 11.7 In Mohan Singh v. State of M.P. , (1999) 2 SCC 428
 the Supreme Court held that effort should be made to
 find the truth; this is the very object for which
 Courts are created. To search it out, the Court has to
 remove chaff from the grain. It has to disperse the
 suspicious, cloud and dust out the smear of dust as all
 these things clog the very truth. So long chaff, cloud
 and dust remains, the criminals are clothed with this
 protective layer to receive the benefit of doubt. So it is
 a solemn duty of the Courts, not to merely conclude
 and leave the case the moment suspicions are
 created. It is onerous duty of the Court, within
 permissible limit to find out the truth. It means, on
 one hand no innocent man should be punished but
 on the other hand to see no person committing an
 offence should get scot free. There is no

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1130
 mathematical formula through which the
 truthfulness of a prosecution or a defence case
 could be concretised. It would depend on the
 evidence of each case including the manner of
 deposition and his demeans, clarity, corroboration
 of witnesses and overall, the conscience of a judge
 evoked by the evidence on record. So Courts have
 to proceed further and make genuine efforts within
 judicial sphere to search out the truth and not stop
 at the threshold of creation of doubt to confer
 benefit of doubt. 11.8 In Zahira Habibullah Sheikh v. State of Gujarat ,
 (2006) 3 SCC 374, the Supreme Court observed that
 right from the inception of the judicial system it has
 been accepted that discovery, vindication and
 establishment of truth are the main purposes
 underlying existence of Courts of justice. 11.9 In Himanshu Singh Sabharwal v. State of Madhya
 Pradesh , (2008) 3 SCC 602, the Supreme Court held
 that the trial should be a search for the truth and not a
 bout over technicalities. The Supreme Court's
 observation are as under: That is their mandate, obligation and bounden duty.
 Justice system will acquire credibility only when
 people will be convinced that justice is based on the
 foundation of the truth. xxx xxx xxx 35. What people expect is that the Court should
 discharge its obligation to find out where in fact the
 truth lies. Right from inception of the judicial system it
 has been accepted that discovery, vindication and
 establishment of truth are the main purposes underlying
 the existence of the courts of justice. xxx xxx xxx 52. Truth is the foundation of justice. It must be the
 endeavour of all the judicial officers and judges to
 ascertain truth in every matter and no stone should
 be left unturned in achieving this object. Courts
 must give greater emphasis on the veracity of
 pleadings and documents in order to ascertain the
 truth.‖
 (Emphasis supplied)
 11.12 In A. Shanmugam v. Ariya Kshatriya , (2012) 6
 SCC 430, the Supreme Court held that the entire
 journey of a judge is to discern the truth from
 the pleadings, documents and arguments of the
 parties. Truth is the basis of justice delivery
 system. The Supreme Court laid down the
 following principles: The court must ensure that there is no incentive for
 wrong doer in the temple of justice. Truth is the
 foundation of justice and it has to be the common
 endeavour of all to uphold the truth and no one
 should be permitted to pollute the stream of
 justice. 43.5. It is the bounden obligation of the Court to
 neutralize any unjust and/or undeserved benefit or
 advantage obtained by abusing the judicial process.‖
 (Emphasis supplied)
 11.13 In Ramesh Harijan v. State of Uttar Pradesh ,
 (2012) 5 SCC 777, the Supreme Court emphasized
 that it is the duty of the Court to unravel the truth
 under all circumstances. 11.14 In Bhimanna v. State of Karnataka , (2012) 9 SCC
 650, the Supreme Court again stressed that the
 Court must endeavour to find the truth. The
 observations of the Supreme Court are as under: 11.15 In the recent pronouncement in Kishore Samrite v. State of U.P., MANU/SC/0892/2012, the Supreme
 Court observed that truth should become the ideal to
 inspire the Courts to pursue. This can be achieved
 by statutorily mandating the Courts to become
 active seekers of truth. The observations of
 Supreme Court are as under: 12. What is ‗Truth' and how to discover it
 12.1 The next question which arises for consideration is,
 what is the meaning of Truth and how to discover it.
 The judgments referred to hereinabove do not
 contain the answer to these twin questions.
 12.2 Eminent scholar Prof. G. Mohan Gopal, former
 Director, National Judicial Academy, has done
 remarkable work on the approach of law to truth.
 He has defined the Law's Truth and has also
 explained the method of discovering Law's Truth.
 He has described Law's truth as synonymous with
 facts established in accordance with the procedure
 prescribed by law. The existence of facts have to be
 established strictly on the basis of relevant and
 admissible evidence, judicial notice and legally
 permitted presumptions based on reason, rationality
 and justification. The views of Prof. G. Mohan
 Gopal in his unpublished article -―Courts and
 Truth‖ contain summary of discussions at National
 Judicial Academy which are reproduced hereunder:- The purpose of the judicial process is to determine
 whether, in truth, the prohibited fact pattern actually
 occurred in real life, and if so, to assign
 consequences. In ancient times, evidence could be
 extracted‖ in virtually any manner: ritual, religion,
 ordeal, torture, or confession. Whatever was
 believed to be true by the judge (or "panchs") was
 the truth. Law's truth was traditionally ―subjective
 truth‖, a concept that arbitrarily varied from judge
 to judge and jury to jury, and was fraught with
 uncertainty and unpredictability. A number of factors resulted in the development of
 a new, more objective approach to the judicial idea
 of truth. As industrialization, colonialism and a
 global economy spread in the 19th century, a new
 goal of the judicial system became predictability,

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1139
 consistency and certainty, irrespective of the judge.
 This new goal was articulated some 180 years ago
 by Thomas Macaulay when he told the British
 House of Commons on 10 July, 1833 that ―the
 objective of codification [of criminal law in India]
 is to secure ―uniformity where you can have it,
 diversity where you must have it, but in all cases,
 certainty‖. There was another important factor that favoured a
 more objective and less arbitrary approach to the
 concept of truth - the growth, starting in Europe and
 the US in the late 18th/19th century, of a
 jurisprudence of individual rights. Criminal
 punishment consists of the deprivation of liberty.
 Therefore limiting criminal punishment is one of the
 most essential pre-requisites for broadening
 individual rights and liberty. A system that provides
 for arbitrary criminal punishment based on
 unguided and subjective belief in undefined
 concepts of ―truth‖ is a great threat to individual
 human liberty. Therefore, a new, more objective concept of ―truth‖
 emerged in Indian legislation starting in the 19th
 century, distinct from the ―divine‖ and ―subjective‖
 concepts that had dominated the justice system until
 then. The ―new‖ concept was derived from scientific
 approaches to the discovery of truth. Under this
 ―new‖ concept, truth was to be discovered by
 individual judges not from holy books or an inner
 voice, but from ―things‖ observable and observed
 by the senses whose existence would be ―proved‖ in
 an objective and verifiable manner (using
 approaches borrowed from science). Under this
 approach, ―fact‖, proved or established in
 accordance with the law, became ―truth‖. Through this new approach, ―truth‖ acquired an

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1140
 objective and empirical character that it did not
 have before. This was a revolutionary and
 democratic change in the approach of the legal
 system. The ―new approach‖ is set out in the Evidence Act as follows. Section 3 of the Evidence Act says that
 "fact" means and includes (1) any thing, state of
 things, or relation of things, capable of being
 perceived by the senses; and (2) any mental
 condition of which any person is conscious. In turn,
 a ―thing‖ may be understood as any
 occurrence/entity, material or non-material, that
 exists in human cognition, which is capable of being
 perceived by human senses (directly or by
 deduction, for example, when taking cognition of
 the mental condition of any person). A fact is said to be proved under the Evidence Act ( Section 3 ) ―when, after considering the matters
 before it, the Court either believes it to exist, or
 considers its existence so probable that a prudent
 man ought under the circumstances of the particular
 case, to act upon the supposition that it exists‖.
 The existence of a fact (the ―truth‖) is based on the
 belief of a jury or a judge (now in India, only the
 judge) in its existence. ―Belief‖ means the ―mental
 acceptance of something as true"(i.e., has the
 quality of trustworthiness).Belief may be of two
 kinds: evidence-based or faith-based. Science uses
 evidence-based belief systems. These systems seek
 to nullify bias that arises from faith-based and
 subjective beliefs by following strict procedures of
 demonstration and verification of evidence. On the
 other hand, faith-based belief systems do not rely on
 evidence. They tend to be highly subjective. The Evidence Act brought in a radical change to the
 concept of ―belief‖ as the basis of truth applied by

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1141
 Indian courts from faith-based belief (as was the
 case in traditional judicial systems in India) to
 evidence-based (scientific) belief. This change was
 essential to achieve the then ―new‖ goal of the legal
 system of consistency, uniformity and certainty, and
 to reduce arbitrariness. The plain language of the
 statute clearly supports the view that the nature of
 belief required by law had been radically changed. The Act requires that the belief of the judge must be
 based on objective material (―after considering the
 matters before it‖). This very important change has, unfortunately
 however, received very little attention in judgments
 or academic discourse. As a consequence, many
 judges and academics appear to still labour under
 the misunderstanding that the truth to be determined
 by courts continues to be the subjective belief of
 each judge based on his/her individual conscience
 and ―trained instinct‖, inevitably influenced by
 religious doctrine or traditional belief and varying
 from one judge to another. To satisfy the standard of belief required under
 the Evidence Act , a Court should come to
 evidence-based belief through reasoning and
 rationality. Reasoning is a process of structured
 thinking. Rationality provides a clear objective
 for reasoned thought. The belief must be
 justified. Justification is a process of ensuring
 that the process and content of reasoning meets
 an adequate standard, which is objective and not
 subjective. Reasoning should be based on common principles
 and methods by which the Court considers the
 matters before it. The use of common methods and
 principles for determining the existence of facts is
 required, across all fact-finders. Examples of such
 common approaches are found for example in

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1142
 model instructions given to juries (see, for example,
 model instructions to be given to juries by
 Massachusetts judges). ―Law's Truth‖ is derived from developments in
 scientific reasoning. It is a unique and distinct idea
 of truth, entirely different from ―God's Truth‖ (the
 ―absolute‖ truth), or ―Subjective Truth‖. It is
 anchored in the concept of ―fact‖. It is to be derived
 through well-defined processes of reasoning. Its
 purpose is to establish the existence, non-existence,
 nature or extent of right, liability or disability under
 law, not to establish either ―God's Truth‖ (the
 absolute truth) or ―Subjective Truth‖. This approach of law of equating truth with fact
 established through law is consistent with some of
 the most widely accepted philosophical definitions
 of truth. For example, under the ―correspondence
 theory‖ of truth a proposition is true if it
 corresponds to facts. The identity theory of truth
 says that a true proposition is identical to a fact. It
 has been pointed out that under the correspondence
 theory, ―truth is a content-to-world or word-to-
 world relation: what we say or think is true or false
 depending on the way the world turns out to be‖.
 Another theory of truth that links the idea of truth to
 facts is the ―coherence‖ theory. Aristotle's
 Metaphysics says, ―to say of what is that it is, or of
 what is not that it is not, is true‖. ‗What is' and
 ‗what is not' is a fact. The advantage of the reasoned and rational
 approach to fact finding (as against subjective
 approaches) is that ―judicial error‖ will be limited to
 use and application of accepted methodologies and
 standards (which can be debated and discussed
 objectively). Reversals of finding of fact by superior
 courts can and must be justified on the basis of lack
 of objectivity in the courts below and their failure to

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1143
 follow required methods of reasoning and
 rationality, rather than by the substitution of the
 subjective judgment of judges of lower courts by
 the subjective judgment of judges of higher courts.
 The following conclusions emerge from the
 above: It must be objective and verifiable.‖
 (Emphasis Supplied)" 13.1 Proof : A fact is said to be proved when, after
 considering the matters before it, the Court either believes it
 to exist, or considers its existence so probable that a prudent
 man ought, under the circumstances of the particular case, to
 act upon the supposition that it exists. ―Evidence‖ of a fact
 and ―proof‖ of a fact are not synonymous terms. ―Proof‖, in
 the strict sense, means the effect of evidence.
 13.2 Section 3 defines the expressions ‗proved',
 ‗disproved', and ‗not proved' as under:- Reasons also ensure transparency and fairness in the decision
 making process. The reasons substitute subjectivity by
 objectivity. Recording of reasons also acts as a vital restraint
 on possible arbitrary use of the judicial power. The recording
 of reasons serve the following four purposes:- The cumulative effect of all the circumstances established by
 evidence and the nature of these circumstances has to be
 taken into consideration. 13.8 The rules of evidence may provide tests, the
 value of which has been proved by long experience, by
 which Judges may be satisfied that the quality of the material
 upon which their judgments are to proceed is not open to
 certain obvious objections; but they do not profess to enable
 the Judges to know whether or not a particular witness tells
 the truth or what inference is to be drawn from a particular
 fact. The correctness with which this is done must depend
 upon the natural sagacity, the logical power, and the practical

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1147
 experience of the Judge and not only upon his acquaintance
 with the law of evidence. 13.9 Cross-examination supplies a test to a certain
 extent, but those who have seen most of its application will
 be disposed to trust at least as a proof that a man is not
 shaken by it, ought to be believed. A cool, steady liar who
 happens not to be open to contradiction will baffle the most
 skilful cross-examiner in the absence of accidents, which are
 not so common in practice as persons who take their notions
 on the subject from anecdotes or fiction would suppose.
 13.10 The grounds for believing or disbelieving
 statements made by people can be brought under following
 three heads; namely those which affect the power of the
 witness to speak the truth; those which affect his will to do
 so ; and those which arise from the nature of the statement
 itself and from surrounding circumstances:- His knowledge depends partly on his accuracy in
 observation, partly on his memory, partly on his presence of
 mind; his power of expression depends upon an infinite
 number of circumstances, and varies in relation to the subject
 on which he has to speak. 13.10.2 Will - A man's will to speak the truth depends
 upon his education, his character, his courage, his sense of
 duty, his relation to the particular facts as to which he is to
 testify and a thousand other circumstances, as to the presence
 or absence of which in any particular case it is often difficult
 to form a true opinion. 13.10.3 Probability of Statement - The third set of
 reasons is those which depend upon the probability of the
 statement. 13.11 All events are connected to each other as cause
 and effect. The connection may be traced in either direction,
 from effect to cause or from cause to effect; and if these two
 words were taken in their widest acceptation it would be
 correct to say that when any theory has been formed which

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1148
 alleges the existence of any fact, all facts are relevant which,
 if that theory was true, would stand to the fact alleged to exist
 either in the relation of cause or in the relation of effect.
 13.12 M. Monir, J. in his commentary Principles and
 Digest of the Law of Evidence, 13th Edition, opined that no
 rule of evidence can guide a judge on the fundamental
 question whether the evidence as to the relevant facts should
 be believed or not. He observed that the best guide of a
 judge is to ascertain the truth by his own common sense and
 experience of human nature. The observations of the author
 are reproduced hereunder: 13.13.4 In Vijayee Singh v. State of U.P , (1990) 3 SCC
 190, the Supreme Court explained the principle of Section 3 as under: Who will fail if a fact is not established? Who will fail if the
 presumption is not drawn? Who will suffer if the
 presumption once drawn is not rebutted? These questions
 will certainly have to be considered in the factual scenario in
 each case. The Court summarised the law on this aspect as
 under: ―1.5 Preliminary Instructions -- Evidence
 You should use your common sense in weighing the
 evidence. Consider it in light of your everyday experience
 with people and events, and give it whatever weight you
 believe it deserves. If your experience tells you that certain
 evidence reasonably leads to a conclusion, you are free to
 reach that conclusion.‖

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1155
 xxx xxx xxx
 ―1.11 Preliminary Instructions -- Clear and Convincing
 Evidence
 Clear and convincing evidence is evidence that produces in
 your mind a firm belief or conviction that the allegations
 sought to be proved by the evidence are true. Clear and
 convincing evidence involves a higher degree of persuasion
 than is necessary to meet the preponderance of the evidence
 standard. But it does not require proof beyond a reasonable
 doubt, the standard applied in criminal cases.‖

 13.14.2 Federal Civil Jury Instructions, State of
 Chicago, United States (2013). ―1.11 Weighing the Evidence
 You should use common sense in weighing the evidence and
 consider the evidence in light of your own observations in
 life. In our lives, we often look at one fact and conclude from it
 that another fact exists. In law we call this ―inference.‖ A
 jury is allowed to make reasonable inferences. Any inference
 you make must be reasonable and must be based on the
 evidence in the case.‖
 xxx xxx xxx
 ―1.13 Testimony of Witnesses (Deciding What to Believe)
 You must decide whether the testimony of each of the
 witnesses is truthful and accurate, in part, in whole, or not at
 all. You also must decide what weight, if any, you give to
 the testimony of each witness. In evaluating the testimony of
 any witness, [including any party to the case,] you may
 consider, among other things: ―2.5-1 Credibility of Witnesses
 The credibility of witnesses and the weight to be given to
 their testimony are matters for you as jurors to determine.
 However, there are some principles that you should keep in
 mind. No fact is, of course, to be determined merely by the
 number of witnesses who testify for or against it; it is the
 quality and not the quantity of testimony that controls. In
 weighing the testimony of each witness you should consider
 the witness's appearance on the stand and whether the
 witness has an interest of whatever sort in the outcome of the
 trial. You should consider a witness's opportunity and
 ability to observe facts correctly and to remember them truly
 and accurately, and you should test the evidence each
 witness gives you by your own knowledge of human nature
 and the motives that influence and control human actions.
 You may consider the reasonableness of what the witness
 says and the consistency or inconsistency of (his/her)
 testimony. You may consider (his/her) testimony in relation
 to facts that you find to have been otherwise proven. You
 may believe all of what a witness tells you, some of what a
 witness tells you, or none of what a particular witness tells
 you. You need not believe any particular number of
 witnesses and you may reject uncontradicted testimony if
 you find it reasonable to do so. In short, you are to apply the
 same considerations and use the same sound judgment and
 common sense that you use for questions of truth and
 veracity in your daily life.‖
 13.14.4 Civil Jury Instructions, Canadian Judicial
 Council (2012). Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1157
 ―9.4 Assessment of Evidence
 [1] To make your decision, you should consider carefully,
 and with an open mind, all the evidence presented during the
 trial. It will be up to you to decide how much or little of the
 testimony of any witness you will believe or rely on. You
 may believe some, none or all of the evidence given by a
 witness. [2] When you go to the jury room to consider the case, use
 your collective common sense to decide whether the
 witnesses know what they are talking about and whether
 they are telling the truth. There is no magic formula for
 deciding how much or how little to believe of a witness's
 testimony or how much to rely on it in deciding this case.
 But here are a few questions you might keep in mind during
 your discussions. [3] Did the witness seem honest? Is there any reason why the
 witness would not be telling the truth? [4] Does the witness have any reason to give evidence that is
 more favourable to one side than to the other?
 [5] Was the witness in a position to make accurate and
 complete observations about the event? Did s/he have a good
 opportunity to do so? What were the circumstances in which
 the observation was made? What was the condition of the
 witness? Was the event itself unusual or routine?
 [6] Did the witness seem to have a good memory? Does the
 witness have any reason to remember the things about which
 s/he testified? Did any inability or difficulty that the witness
 had in remembering events seem genuine, or did it seem
 made up as an excuse to avoid answering questions?
 [7] Did the witness seem to be reporting to you what he or
 she saw or heard, or simply putting together an account
 based on information obtained from other sources, rather
 than personal observation? [8] Did the witness's testimony seem reasonable and
 consistent? Is it similar to or different from what other

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1158
 witnesses said about the same events? Did the witness say or
 do something different on an earlier occasion?
 [9] Do any inconsistencies in the witness's evidence make
 the main points of the testimony more or less believable and
 reliable? Is the inconsistency about something important, or
 a minor detail? Does it seem like an honest mistake? Is it a
 deliberate lie? Is the inconsistency because the witness said
 something different, or because s/he failed to mention
 something? Is there any explanation for it? Does the
 explanation make sense? [10] What was the witness's manner when he or she
 testified? Do not jump to conclusions, however, based
 entirely on how a witness has testified. Looks can be
 deceiving. Giving evidence in a trial is not a common
 experience for many witnesses. People react and appear
 differently. Witnesses come from different backgrounds.
 They have different abilities, values and life experiences.
 There are simply too many variables to make the manner in
 which a witness testifies the only or most important factor in
 your decision. [11] These are only some of the factors that you might keep
 in mind when you go to your jury-room to make your
 decision. These factors might help you decide how much or
 little of a witness's evidence you will believe or rely on. You
 may consider other factors as well. [12] In making your decision, do not consider only the
 testimony of the witnesses. Take into account, as well, any
 exhibits that have been filed and decide how much or little
 you will rely on them to help you decide this case. I will be
 telling (or, have already told) you about how you use
 admissions in making your decision.‖ 14. Section 114 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872

 14.1 Section 114 of the Indian Evidence Act deals
 with the rebuttable presumptions. Section 114 recognizes
 the general power of the Court to raise inferences as to the

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1159
 existence or non-existence of unknown facts on proof or
 admission of other facts. The source of such presumptions is
 the common course of natural events, human conduct and
 public or private business, and the Section proceeds on the
 assumption that just as in nature, there prevails a fixed order
 of things, so the volitional acts of men placed in similar
 circumstances exhibits, on the whole, a distinct uniformity
 which is traceable to the impulses of human nature, customs
 and habits of society. 14.2 Section 114 of the Indian Evidence Act is
 reproduced hereunder: Thus, it is for the Court to raise the presumption or not. The
 presumption, even if drawn, is rebuttable. Once a
 presumption is satisfactorily rebutted, it simply vanishes. It
 cannot come back once again. In Mackowik v. Kansas City
 St. James & CBR Co., 94. S.W. 256, 262 = 196 MO. 550,
 Lamm, J. observed that ―presumptions are like bats, flitting
 in the twilight but disappearing in the sunshine of facts‖
 14.7 The word ‗common course' in Section 114 qualifies not only natural events but also the words ‗human
 conduct' and ‗public and private businesses'. As to what is
 ‗common course of natural events, human conduct and
 public and private business' depends upon the common
 sense of the Judge acquired from experience of worldly and
 human affairs. 14.8 The subject of presumptions is closely allied to
 the subject of burden of proof. All rules relating to burden of
 proof may be stated in terms of presumptions, and all
 presumptions may be stated in terms of rules of burden of
 proof. When the burden of proof of a fact is on a party, it
 may be said that there is a presumption as to the non-
 existence of that fact and where there is a presumption as to
 the existence of a fact, the burden of proving the non-
 existence of that fact is on the party who asserts its non-
 existence. When a presumption operates in favour of a
 party, the burden of proof is on the opponent, and when the
 burden of proof is on a party, there is a presumption
 operating in favour of the opponent. In other systems of
 evidence, several rules which occur in the Act as rules of
 burden of proof are stated in the form of presumptions,
 whereas several other rules which are stated in the Act in the
 form of presumptions occur in other systems as rules of
 burden of proof. Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1163
 14.9 The grounds of sources of presumptions of fact
 are obviously innumerable, they are co-extensive with the
 facts, both physical and psychological, which may under any
 circumstances whatever becomes evidentiary in Courts; but,
 in a general view, such presumptions may be said to relate to
 things, persons, and the acts and thoughts of intelligent
 agents. With respect to the first of these it is an established
 principle that conformity with the ordinary course of nature
 ought always to be presumed. Thus, the order and changes of
 the seasons, the rising setting and course of the heavenly
 bodies, and the known properties of matter, give rise to very
 important presumptions relative to physical facts or things.
 The same rule extends to persons. Thus, the absence of
 those natural qualities, power and faculties which are
 incident to the human race in general will never be presumed
 in any individual; such as the impossibility of living long
 without food, the possession of the reasoning faculties, the
 common and ordinary understanding of man etc. To this
 head are reducible the presumptions relating to the duration
 of human life, the time of gestation, etc. Under the third
 class - namely, the acts and thought of intelligent agents -
 come among others, all psychological facts; and the most
 important inference are drawn from the ordinary conduct of
 mankind, and the natural feelings or impulses of human
 nature. Thus, no man will ever be presumed to throw away
 his property, as for instance, by paying money not due; and
 so it is a maxim that everyone must be taken to love his own
 offspring more than that of another person.
 14.10 Presumptions of fact are always rebuttable. In
 other words, the party against which a presumption may
 operate can and must lead evidence to show why the
 presumption should not be given effect to. If, for example,
 the party which initiates a proceeding or comes with a case
 to Court offers no evidence to support it, the presumption is
 that such evidence does not exist. And if some evidence is
 shown to exist on a question in issue, but the party which has
 it within its power, does not produce it, despite notice to it to
 do so, the natural presumption is that it would, if produced,

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1164
 have gone against it. Similarly, a presumption arises from
 failure to discharge a special or particular onus.
 14.11 The Judge has to call in aid not only his training
 and wisdom but also the experience of life to adjudge which
 set of evidence is more probable and which evidence is to be
 believed. The Judge decides who is to be believed and how
 much and if not, why so. He also visualises what, in ordinary
 course, should have been the evidence but was not produced,
 wherefore an adverse inference ought to be drawn.
 14.12 The presentation of evidence and the inferences
 that flow from it are placed by the Judge in his (judicial)
 scales. The task of a Judge is to first assess the weight of the
 evidence including presumptions, and then place it into the
 respective pan (scale) hanging from the two ends of the
 equal arm of judicial balance. 14.13 The relevant judgments relating to Section 114 of the Indian Evidence Act are as under: 14.13.4 Krishna Iyer, J. in Tukaram Ganpat Pandare
 v. State of Maharashtra , (1974) 4 SCC 544 held that Section 114 of the Evidence Act enables the Court to use
 common sense as judicial tool. Section 114 thus is a
 useful device to aid the Court in its quest for truth. While
 care and caution need to be exercised in drawing any
 presumption under Section 114 , its scope is wide and it has
 the potential to lend a helping hand in myriad situations. 14.13.5 In Narayan Govind Gavate v. State of
 Maharashtra , (1977) 1 SCC 133, the Supreme Court held
 that function of a presumption is to fill a gap in evidence. Section 114 of the Evidence Act covers a wide range of
 presumptions of fact which can be used by Courts in the
 course of administration of justice to remove lacunae in
 the chain of direct evidence before it. 14.13.6 In Syad Akbar v. State of Karnataka , (1980) 1
 SCC 30, the Supreme Court held that presumptions are
 inferences of certain fact patterns drawn from the experience
 and observation of the common course of nature, the
 constitution of the human mind, the springs of human action,
 the usages and habits of society and ordinary course of
 human affairs. 14.13.7 In Sodhi Transport Co. v. State of U.P. , (1986)
 2 SCC 486, the Supreme Court held that the rules of
 presumption are deduced from enlightened human
 knowledge and experience and are drawn from the
 connection, relation and coincidence of facts, and
 circumstances. Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1166
 14.13.8 In State of W.B. v. Mir Mohammad Omar ,
 (2000) 8 SCC 382, the Supreme Court held that presumption
 of fact is an inference as to the existence of one fact from the
 existence of some other facts, unless the truth of such
 inference is disproved. Presumption of fact is a rule in law
 of evidence that a fact otherwise doubtful may be
 inferred from certain other proved facts. When inferring
 the existence of a fact from other set of proved facts, the
 Court exercises a process of reasoning and reaches a logical
 conclusion as the most probable position. Section 114 empowers the Court to presume the existence of any fact
 which it thinks likely to have happened. In that process, the
 Court shall have regard to the common course of natural
 events, human conduct etc. in relation to the facts of the
 case. 14.13.9 In M. Narsinga Rao v. State of Andhra
 Pradesh , (2001) 1 SCC 691, the Supreme Court held that
 presumption is an inference of a certain fact drawn from
 other proved facts. While inferring the existence of a fact
 from another, the Court is only applying a process of
 intelligent reasoning which the mind of a prudent man would
 do under similar circumstances. Presumption is not the final
 conclusion to be drawn from other facts. But it could as well
 be final if it remains undisturbed later. Presumption in Law
 of Evidence is a rule indicating the stage of shifting the
 burden of proof. From a certain fact or facts the Court
 can draw an inference and that would remain until such
 inference is either disproved or dispelled. 14.13.10 In Limbaji v. State of Maharashtra , (2001) 10
 SCC 340, the Supreme Court held that a presumption of
 fact is a type of circumstantial evidence which in the
 absence of direct evidence becomes a valuable tool in the
 hands of the Court to reach the truth without unduly
 diluting the presumption in favour of the innocence of the
 accused which is the foundation of our criminal law. It is
 an inference of fact drawn from another proved fact
 taking due note of common experience and common
 course of events. Section 114 of the Evidence Act shows

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1167
 the way to the Court in its endeavour to discern the truth
 and to arrive at a finding with reasonable certainty. The
 Supreme Court further held that having due regard to the
 germane considerations set out in the section, certain
 presumptions which the Court can draw are illustratively set
 out. They are not exhaustive or comprehensive. The
 presumption under Section 114 is, of course, rebuttable.
 When once the presumption is drawn, the duty of producing
 evidence to the contra so as to rebut the presumption is cast
 on the party who is subjected to the rigour of that
 presumption. Before drawing the presumption as to the
 existence of a fact on which there is no direct evidence, the
 facts of the particular case should remain uppermost in the
 mind of the Judge. These facts should be looked into from
 the angle of common sense, common experience of men and
 matters and then a conscious decision has to be arrived at
 whether to draw the presumption or not. 14.13.11 In Hiten P. Dalal v. Bratindranath Banerjee ,
 (2001) 6 SCC 16, the Supreme Court held as under: hundred-pound rail was struck out by the Court as manifestly
 absurd. 14.14.3 Improbable stories - The Court is not bound to
 give credit to a witness who is interested in the result of the
 action, and whose evidence is improbable and discredited by
 circumstances, or is against common experience and
 observation. 14.14.4 Payment without taking receipt - The average
 man would not pay and take no receipt or memorandum to
 insure himself against loss in case of the death of the other
 party, or his forgetfulness, or something even worse. No
 person of ordinary prudence, making payments of principal
 from time to time on a bond and mortgage, would omit to
 take receipts, if the papers were not at hand so that the
 payments could be entered thereon. 14.14.5 Improbable testimony contradicted by
 circumstances - In a case of conviction for murdering a
 woman by cutting her throat with a razor, the theory that the
 killing was the result of an accident, occasioned by the
 defendant supposing that he was drawing the back of the
 razor across the throat of his victim, was so utterly
 preposterous that there could be no rational expectation that
 any Judge would give it the least consideration.
 14.14.6 Numerical equality or preponderance of
 witness testimony to improbabilities -Suppose that a small
 child tells that he saw a large wolf run away with an
 unusually small lamb. As against this, ten adults testified
 that this was not the case at all, but that the real fact was that
 this very small lamb was actually running away with the
 large wolf. It would not take a Judge very long to determine
 where the truth lies, notwithstanding ten against one.
 14.14.7 Relative value of direct and circumstantial
 evidence - In the Webster case, Chief Justice Shaw, speaking
 of direct or positive evidence and circumstantial evidence,

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1170
 said: ―Each of these modes of proof has its advantages and
 disadvantages; it is not easy to compare their relative value.
 The advantage of positive evidence is that it is the direct
 testimony of a witness to the fact to be proved, who, if he
 speaks the truth, saw it done; and the only question is
 whether he is entitled to belief. The disadvantage is that the
 witness may be false and corrupt, and that the case may not
 afford the means of detecting his falsehood. But, in a case of
 circumstantial evidence where no witness can testify directly
 to the fact to be proved, it is arrived at by a series of other
 facts, which by experience have been found so associated
 with the fact in question, that in the relation of cause and
 effect they lead to a satisfactory and certain conclusion; as
 when footprints are discovered after a recent snow, it is
 certain that some animated being has passed over the snow
 since it fell ; and, from the form and number of the
 footprints, it can be determined with equal certainty, whether
 they are those of a man, a bird, or a quadruped.
 Circumstantial evidence, therefore, is founded on experience
 and observed facts and coincidences, establishing a
 connection between the known and proved facts and the fact
 sought to be proved.‖ 5. In Ved Parkash Kharbanda (supra), the principles relating
to the discovery of truth and Sections 3 and 114 of the Indian
Evidence Act, 1872 have been summarized as under: Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1171
  It is the duty of the Judge to discover truth to do complete
 justice. The entire judicial system has been created only to
 discern and find out the real truth.  The justice based on truth would establish peace in the
 society. For the common man truth and justice are
 synonymous. So when truth fails, justice fails. People would
 have faith in Courts when truth alone triumphs.
  Every trial is voyage of discovery in which truth is the quest.
 Truth should be reigning objective of every trial. Judge has
 to play an active role to discover the truth and he should
 explore all avenues open to him in order to discover the truth.
  The Trial Judge is the key-man in the judicial system and
 he is in a unique position to strongly impact the quality of
 a trial to affect system's capacity to produce and
 assimilate truth. The Trial Judge should explore all
 avenues open to him in order to discover the truth. Trial
 Judge has the advantage of looking at the demeanour of
 the witnesses. In spite of the right of appeal, there are
 many cases in which appeals are not filed. It is mostly
 with the Trial Judge rather than with the appellate Judge
 that the members of the general public come in contact,
 whether as parties or as witnesses. 21.2 What is ‗Truth' and how to discover it

  Law's Truth is synonymous with facts established in
 accordance with the procedure prescribed by law.
  The purpose of judicial inquiry is to establish the existence
 of facts in accordance with law.  Facts are proved through lawfully prescribed methods and
 standards.  The belief of Courts about existence of facts must be based
 on reason, rationality and justification, strictly on the basis
 of relevant and admissible evidence, judicial notice or
 legally permitted presumptions. It must be based on a
 prescribed methodology of proof. It must be objective and
 verifiable. Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1172
 21.3 Section 3 of Indian Evidence Act, 1872

  ―Evidence‖ of a fact and ―proof‖ of a fact are not
 synonymous terms. ―Proof‖ in the strict sense means the
 effect of evidence.  A fact is said to be proved when, after considering the
 matters before it, the Court either believes it to exist, or
 considers its existence so probable that a prudent man ought,
 under the circumstances of the particular case, to act upon the
 supposition that it exists.  The term ―after considering the matters before it‖ in Section 3 of the Evidence Act means that for judging whether
 a fact is or not proved, the Court is entitled to take into
 consideration all matters before it which shall include the
 statement of the witnesses, admissions of the parties,
 confession of the accused, documents proved in evidence,
 judicial notice, demeanour of witnesses, local inspections and
 presumptions.  The term ―believes it to exist‖ in the definition of ―proof‖ is
 a ―judicial belief‖ of the Judge based on logical/rational
 thinking and the power of reason, and the Court is required to
 give reasons for the belief. The reasons are live links
 between the mind of the decision maker and the belief
 formed. Reasons convey judicial idea in words and
 sentences. Reasons are rational explanation of the
 conclusion. Reason is the very life of law. It is the heart beat
 of every belief and without it, law becomes lifeless. Reasons
 also ensure transparency and fairness in the decision making
 process. The reasons substitute subjectivity by objectivity.
 Recording of reasons also play as a vital restraint on possible
 arbitrary use of the judicial power. The recording of reasons
 serve the following four purposes:-  Presumption of fact is a rule in law of evidence that a fact
 otherwise doubtful may be inferred from certain other proved
 facts.  The source of presumptions is the common course of natural
 events, human conduct and public or private business, and
 the Section proceeds on the assumption that just as in nature
 there prevails a fixed order of things, so the volitional acts of
 men placed in similar circumstances exhibits, on the whole, a
 distinct uniformity which is traceable to the impulses of
 human nature, customs and habits of society.
  The illustrations though taken from different spheres of
 human activity, are not exhaustive. They are based upon
 human experience and have to be applied in the context of
 the facts of each case. The illustrations are merely examples
 of circumstances in which certain presumptions may be
 made. Other presumptions of a similar kind in similar
 circumstances can be made under the provisions of the
 section itself.  Presumption in law of evidence is a rule indicating the stage
 of shifting the burden of proof. From a certain fact or facts
 the Court can draw an inference and that would remain until
 such inference is either disproved or dispelled.
  Presumptions of fact can be used by the Courts in the course
 of administration of justice to remove lacunae in the chain of
 direct evidence before it. The function of a presumption is to
 fill a gap in evidence.  Section 114 of the Indian Evidence Act applies to both civil
 and criminal proceedings.  Whether or not a presumption can be drawn under the section
 in a particular case depends ultimately upon the facts and
 circumstances of each case. No hard and fast rule can be laid
 down. Human behaviour is so complex and room must be

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1175
 left for play in the joints. It is not possible to formulate a
 series of exact propositions and con-flue human behaviour
 within straitjackets.  No rule of evidence can guide the Judge on the fundamental
 question whether evidence as to a relevant fact should be
 believed or not. Secondly, assuming that the Judge believes
 very few cases, guide him on the question what inference he
 should draw from it as to assist a Judge in the very smallest
 degree in determining the master question of the whole
 subject - whether and how far he ought to believe what the
 witnesses say? The rules of evidence do not guide what
 inference the Judge ought to draw from the facts in which,
 after considering the statements made to him, he believes. In
 every judicial proceeding whatever these two questions - Is
 this true, and, if it is true what then? - ought to be constantly
 present in the mind of the Judge, and the rules of evidence do
 not throw the smallest portion of light upon them. Section 167 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 6. Section 167 of the Indian Evidence Act provides that improper
admission or rejection of evidence shall not be ground of itself for a
new trial or reversal of any decision in any case, if it shall appear to
the Court before which such objection is raised that, independently of
the evidence objected to and admitted, there was sufficient evidence to
justify the decision, or that, if the rejected evidence had been received,
it ought not to have varied the decision. An objection to the proper
admission of evidence is material only if it can be shown that the
exclusion of evidence improperly admitted is fatal to the decision. A
finding will not, therefore, be disturbed if, throwing aside the evidence
which ought not to have been admitted, there, still remains sufficient
evidence to support the finding. Although, my esteemed colleague

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1176
 has discussed Section 167 in paras 1280 to 1283, I would like to add
three more relevant judgments. 7. In Abdul Rahim v. The King Emperor , AIR 1946 PC 82, the
Privy Council examined the scope of Section 167 and held as under: 8. In John v. Sherthalai Municipality, AIR 1959 Ker 323, the
learned Magistrate examined the accused as a court witness, despite
his protest and elicited information belonging to him. The conviction

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1177
 was challenged on the ground that the accused had an immunity
against being called as a witness. The Kerala High Court held that the
learned Magistrate committed a grave error in examining the accused
despite his protest to prove a fact but confirmed the conviction by
invoking Section 167 of the Indian Evidence Act as there was
sufficient evidence to justify the conviction after discarding the
statement recorded by the Magistrate. The relevant portion of the said
judgment is reproduced hereunder: 9. In National Insurance Company Ltd. v. Seems Ramdas
Telhande , (2013) 6 Mah LJ 890, the Bombay High Court examined
the scope of Section 167 of the Indian Evidence Act as under: 10. To summarise, the Court is required to take into consideration
all „the matters before it‟ ( Section 3 of the Indian Evidence Act)
which shall include the statements of the witnesses, disclosures,
recoveries, circumstances, documents proved in evidence, judicial
notice, demeanour of witnesses and presumptions and then apply the
judicial mind (based on logical/rationale thinking and power of
reason). If on such consideration, the Court believes the prosecution
case to exist or considers it existence probable beyond reasonable
doubt, the prosecution case is said to be „proved‟. On the other hand,
if the Court does not believe the prosecution case either to exist or
probable, it is said to be „disproved‟. 11. Applying the aforesaid principles of law to the facts of the
present case and on careful consideration of all „the matters before the

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1179
 Court‟ including the statements of the witnesses, disclosures,
recoveries, circumstances, documents proved in evidence, judicial
notice, demeanour of witnesses and presumptions, I believe the
prosecution case, more particularly the facts mentioned in para 2028
of the judgment of my esteemed colleague, to be true and therefore,
the same are „proved‟ beyond reasonable doubt and are sufficient to
uphold the conviction of the appellants whereas the entire defence set
up by the appellants is not believed to be true and, therefore,
„disproved‟. With respect to the reasons for such belief, I adopt the
detailed reasons given by my esteemed colleague in this regard. 12. With these observations, I agree with the judgment proposed by
my esteemed colleague that the conviction of the appellants should be
upheld. The appeals are accordingly dismissed. (J.R. MIDHA)
 JUDGE
APRIL 02, 2014
dk

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1180
 * IN THE HIGH COURT OF DELHI AT NEW DELHI

% Date of Decision: 2nd April, 2014

 Crl.M.A.Nos.2258/2013, 2266/2013, 20078/2012,
 13408/2008 & 5000/2010 in + CRL.A. 741/2008 VISHAL YADAV ..... Appellant
 Through : Mr. Ram Jethmalani, Sr.
 Adv. with Mr. Sanjay Jain, Mr.
 Vinay Arora, Ms. P.R. Mala, Ms.
 Ruchika Bhan, Mr. Pranav Diesh,
 Mr. Karan Kalia and Mr. Ashish
 Dixit, Advs. Crl.M.A.No.12795/2008 & 12534/2011 in + CRL.A. 910/2008 VIKAS YADAV ..... Appellant
 Through : Mr.U.R. Lalit, Sr. Adv. with Mr. Sumeet Verma and Ms.
 Charu Verma, Advs. Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1181
 versus

 STATE OF U.P. ..... Respondent
 Through : Mr. Dayan Krishnan,
 ASC with Ms. Ritu Gauba, APP,
 Ms.Swati Goswami, , Mr. Nikhil
 A.Menon and Ms. Manvi Priya,
 Advs. Mr. P.K. Dey, Adv. with Mr.
 Kaushik Dey, Adv. for the
 complainant. CORAM: HON'BLE MS. JUSTICE GITA MITTAL
HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE J.R. MIDHA

GITA MITTAL, J. Crl.M.A.No.2258/2012 in Crl.App.No.741/2008 1. This application was filed on behalf of the appellant Vishal
 Yadav through his brother contending that on 12th February,
 2013, he had suffered from facial paralysis complaining that
 insufficient facilities were available in the Deen Dayal
 Upadhyay Hospital when he was being given treatment.
 Directions were sought to the State to provide details of the
 disease as well as treatment to the family of the applicant as
 proper treatment as may be required to the applicant. This
 application came up for hearing on the 25th of February 2013
 when Mr.Dayan Krishnan, learned Additional Standing
 Counsel sought time to take instructions. In the meantime we
 had issued directions for production of the medical record of

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1182
 the appellant as well as details of his treatment from the Jail
 Superintendent, Tihar Jail, Delhi. 2. Pursuant to our orders, a report dated 25 th February, 2013 of
 the Senior Medical Officer of the Central Jail, Tihar as well as
 the Superintendent of Central Jail No.5, Tihar Jail was placed
 before us. By our orders dated 28th February, 2013, we had
 directed that a more detailed report with regard to the
 treatment administered to the appellant as well as
 requirements for treatment of the conditions noted in the
 report submitted be also brought on record. Pursuant to the
 said order, a report dated 6th March, 2013 was received from
 Superintendent, Central Jail No.5 to the effect that the patient
 had already recovered 80% and that his general condition was
 satisfactory. The application has thereafter not been pressed
 before us. 3. No other complaint has been made before us with regard to
 either the health of the appellant or the treatment which he
 may be requiring. No further orders in this application are
 called for. This application is therefore disposed of. 4. Needless to say it is open for the applicant to seek court
 intervention and assistance at any stage by way of appropriate
 proceedings if he is denied medical treatment any time. Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1183
 Crl.M.A.No.2266/2013 in Crl.App.No.741/2008 5. This application has been filed by Vishal Yadav seeking
 permission to lead additional evidence and summoning Kamal
 Kishore as a court witness in Crl.A.No.741/2008. This
 application dated 18th February, 2013 has been filed for
 summoning a person to testify about the events which took
 place in the night intervening 16th/17th February, 2002 i.e.
 eleven years ago. The application was filed at a stage when
 arguments on behalf of all the three appellants; the learned
 Additional Standing Counsel for the State as well as Shri P.K.
 Dey, the learned counsel for the complainant, stood
 concluded. By the order dated 5th February, 2013, the appeal
 was posted for arguments in rejoinder of the appellants on the
 28th of February 2013. 6. The trial court record shows that Kamal Kishore was cited as
 a prosecution witness and extensive steps were taken to
 summon him. During the course of arguments in the appeal, it
 has been argued on behalf of the present applicant that the
 case against Vishal Yadav deserves to be rejected for the
 reason that a material witness who established his defence
 namely Kamal Kishore has not been examined by the
 prosecution. The prayer in the application rests on a statement
 under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. dated 18th February, 2002
 attributed to Kamal Kishore. The prosecution and the
 complainant have answered the appellant's case on the non- Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1184
 production of Kamal Kishore. Several serious anomalies in
 the statement attributed to him have been pointed out. 7. During arguments on the appeal, when this submission was
 pressed before us, we had queried learned senior counsel for
 the applicant as to why Kamal Kishore could not have been
 examined as a defence witness. The applicant opposed the
 same placing judicial precedents in support before us which
 we have considered. The applicant had argued that it was
 legally impermissible for the appellant to summon Kamal
 Kishore as a defence witness. 8. Eleven years since February, 2002 when the crime was
 committed is a long period of time. Human memory fades
 with every passing day. Given the conduct of the appellants
 with regard to influencing witnesses, the present application at
 this stage of the proceedings, is certainly motivated. 9. One more important factor comes in the way of grant of this
 application. Kamal Kishore was an employee of the
 applicant's uncle who did not deliberately respond to court
 process. Given the circumstance that entire prosecution case
 has been examined thread bare, we find that the application is
 neither bonafide nor an attempt to bring such evidence on
 record which would enable the court to arrive at the truth. It
 is also an attempt to delay adjudication further. Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1185 10. We have recorded detailed observations about the statement
 attributed to Kamal Kishore in the main appeal. The reasons
 apply to this application as well. In the judgment on the main
 appeal, we have also opined on the illegality of exhibition of
 the statement under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. (Exh.PW-35/4)
 attributed to Kamal Kishore and also on the falsity of the
 contents of the statement. For the reasons noted above as well as the detailed reasons
 recorded in the judgment on the main appeal, we find no merit
 in the application which is hereby dismissed. Crl.M.A.No.20078/2012 in Crl.App.No.741/2008 11. By this application, the applicant has prayed for directions to
 search for photographs which were exhibited on trial court
 record as Exh.DW-1/1 to Exh.DW-1/3 as these photographs
 were not found in the envelope on the record of the trial court
 which was placed to be containing these photographs. The
 applicant has urged that these are photographs in support of
 Vishal Yadav's stand that after attending Shivani Gaur's
 wedding, Vikas and Vishal Yadav had gone to attend the
 ceremony at the residence of DW-1 Shri Ashok Gandhi. The
 applicant prays that in case the photographs cannot be traced
 out, the CD of the ceremony be taken on record. 12. During the course of hearing on the 3rd of October 2012,
 Mr.Dayan Krishnan, learned Additional Standing Counsel for

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1186
 the State had drawn our attention to the testimony of DW-1
 Shri Ashok Gandhi who had produced the photographs
 Exh.DW-1/2 to Exh.DW-1/3 as well as negatives on record.
 Our attention was drawn to an envelope which was placed at
 page 531 of Vol.13 of LCR on which it was noted as follows:- On the cover page (table) of Vol.13, it was indicated as follows: 13. We had directed that the tape on the envelope be opened. However the envelope was found to be empty. 14. We had passed an order dated 18th December, 2012 on the
 present application directing Ms. R. Kiran Nath, Registrar
 (Vigilance) to take steps to trace out the photographs
 Exh.DW-1/D1 to Exh.DW-1/D3 as well as the negatives
 Exh.01 to 03. Pursuant to our order, the Registrar (Vigilance)
 has filed a detailed report dated 19th January, 2013 after
 recording statements of four persons which included the
 Ahlmad of the learned trial court; concerned Senior Judicial

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1187
 Assistant from this court as well as Project Manager and
 Supervisor in the Scanning Branch of this court where the
 lower court record was digitalized. The operative part of the
 report reads as follows: 15. We may note that the Scanning Branch had attempted to state
 that the sealed documents have not been opened. The
 digitalized record of a card which was also lying in the above
 sealed cover is available on the file. This shows that in the
 scanning branch the sealed envelope was opened and the
 photographs have been mishandled there at that point. 16. The photographs were produced before the learned court and
 had been exhibited by the trial court. In the judgment dated
 28th May, 2008, the learned trial judge has commented on the
 photographs. The learned trial judge has found that the
 photographs neither prove the date nor the nature of the event
 which was photographed and therefore arrived at a conclusion
 of the falsity of the defence set up by the applicant. Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1189 17. After a detailed consideration of the entire evidence on record,
 we have also recorded our findings on these photographs in
 paras 1453 to 1460 of the main judgment in the appeal. 18. A CD if actually existed ought to have been produced before
 the learned trial judge in the first instance. It was not done.
 The learned Trial Judge has commented on the same. With
 advancement of technology, as disclosed by defence
 witnesses, it is possible to fabricate CDs and photographs. In
 fact highly specialized technology which was not available in
 2002, is now in existence. We have found that the appellants
 produced morphed photographs in the defence evidence
 before the trial judge. 19. The loss of documents from court record is undoubtedly a
 serious matter and we propose to refer a report of the
 Registrar (Vigilance) to the Registrar General for placing the
 report before concerned Committee of this court for
 examining the matter and taking action. However, the
 absence of the photographs does not impact the present
 adjudication. For all these reasons including the view taken by us on the
 photographs, it is completely unnecessary to permit the
 appellant to lead further evidence by way of a CD on record. This application is therefore dismissed. Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1190
 The Registry is directed to forward the above report of the
 Registrar (Vigilance) before the Registrar General of this
 court who shall place the same before the Concerned
 Committee of this court for consideration. Crl.M.A.No.13408/2008 in Crl.App.No.741/2008 20. This application was filed by the applicant on 14 th November,
 2008 seeking permission that the medical certificate enclosed
 with the application be considered at the time of hearing his
 bail application being Crl.M.(Bail)no.1155/2008 which was
 rejected by the order passed on 7th August, 2009. This application is therefore rendered infructuous and is
 dismissed as such. Crl.M.A.No.5000/2010 in Crl.App.No.741/2008 21. By way of this application, Vishal Yadav has sought
 exemption from filing certified copy of court orders.
 Inasmuch as the main application with which the present
 application was filed has been rendered infructuous by
 disposal of the main appeal, no orders are required to be
 passed on this application as well. This application is dismissed. Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1191
 Crl.M.A.No.12795/2008 in Crl.App.No.910/2008 22. This application has been filed on 28th July, 2008 under Section 311 and 482 of the Cr.P.C. by the appellant, seeking
 permission to lead additional evidence by examining/re-
 examining/cross-examining the following witnesses; (i) Shri
 Subhash Yadav (ii) Shri P.L. Sharma, allegedly present at the
 time of the alleged sting operation conducted upon a
 prosecution witness; Ajay Katara and his security guards (i)
 Sanjay Kumar (ii) Shiv Kumar (iii) Pankaj Kumar (iv) Tanu
 wife of Ajay Katara and her parents Radhey Shyam and Smt.
 Urmila. 23. We have considered the evidentiary value of the sting
 operation in detail in the judgment passed by us on the main
 appeal and have found the same to be irrelevant. In that view
 thereof, no fruitful purpose would be served by grant of prayer
 made in the application. For the reasons recorded in the main appeal on the aspect of
 the sting operation, this application is dismissed. Crl.M.A.No.12534/2011 in Crl.App.No.910/2008 24. This application was filed on 17th October, 2011 by Nilam
 Katara praying for permission to the complainant to assist this
 court in the bail applications. There is no bail application

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1192
 which is pending. The main appeal itself has been decided by
 a separate judgment. This application is therefore dismissed. GITA MITTAL, J. J.R. MIDHA, J. APRIL 02, 2014
aj/mk/kapil/kr

Crl.A.Nos.741, 910/2008 & 145/2012 1193