IN THE MATTER: 2. ANURAG
R/o House No. C-4D/32,
Janakpuri, New Delhi - 110058 ...Proposed Accused No. 2

Brief Background 1. The complainant, Nitin Tyagi, filed a complaint under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 (hereinafter
"the NI Act ") against the accused, Sumanto Pratik Sen and
Anurag alleging dishonour of three cheques amounting to Rs. 21
lakhs. The complainant claimed the cheques were issued in
discharge of a legal liability arising from an alleged investment
of Rs. 33 lakhs made between 2016 and 2020 in ventures and in
forex platforms like "Hash99," and "Yamarkets." introduced by
the accused. Cognizance of the offence under Section 138 of the
NI Act has been taken only qua Sumanto Pratik Sen and not the
proposed accused Anurag. FACTUAL MATRIX 2. The complainant, Mr. Nitin Tyagi, and the accused Mr.
Sumanto Pratik Sen, were on friendly terms for the past seven
 Digitally
 signed by
 komal
 komal Date: 3. As per directions of accused Nos. 1 and Mr. Anurag, the
complainant transferred approximately Rs.12,82,810/- from his
own account and Rs.2,90,000/- from his wife's account, along
with further cash payments totaling to around Rs.16,30,000/-,
aggregating to a total investment of Rs.33,00,000/-. 4. Initially, the accused repaid a sum of Rs.1,95,000/- in three
instalments as purported profit on the investment. 5. In September 2020, the accused informed the complainant
that they were closing "Hash 99" due to financial difficulties and
sought time to repay the invested amount. They later offered a
new opportunity for investment in a trading venture through a
platform called "YA Market", again representing themselves as
directors. 6. The complainant agreed and invested another
Rs.3,00,000/- in cash through Mr. Anurag in December 2020. A
trading account was opened in his name, and he was shown a
profit of approximately 1,97,750 USD. However, the account
 Digitally
 signed by
 komal
 komal Date: 7. Thereafter, the complainant contacted the accused no.1 on
17.01.2021 and inquired him about closure of the said account,
but it was ignored by the accused. Further, the accused no.1 and
Mr. Anurag refused the complainant to pay the amount invested
and the profit earned thereon. 8. Upon continuous follow-up by the complainant, the
accused issued three cheques bearing numbers 877856, 877857,
and 877859, each for Rs.7,00,000/-, drawn on Axis Bank, Khan
Market Branch, New Delhi, totaling Rs.21,00,000/-. (hereinafter
to be referred as 'the cheque in question'.) The remaining
Rs.12,00,000/- was promised to be paid within one year. 9. The said cheques were presented for encashment on
20.07.2023 but were returned unpaid with the remarks "Account
Closed" vide bank return memo dated 23.07.2023. 10. Despite service of legal notice dated 01.08.2023, duly
received by accused No. 1 on 07.08.2023, no payment was made
within the statutory period of 15 days. Therefore, the accused
committed an offence under Section 138 of Negotiable
Instruments Act, and the complainant has preferred the present
complaint. 11. The cognizance in the present matter was taken by the this
Court vide Order 13.10.2023, and summons were issued against
the accused no. 1 only. Proposed accused no. 2 Mr. Anurag was
not summoned. The accused appeared before this court on
05.02.2024 and was admitted to bail subject to furnishing of
personal bond in the sum of Rs.50,000/- with one surety of like
amount. Thereafter, in complaince with Section 251 of the Code
of Criminal Procedure ( CrPC ), notice was framed upon the
accused. During the framing of notice under Section 251 CrPC,
the accused pleaded not guilty to the offence under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act and claimed trial. In his
defence, the accused stated that the parents of the complainant
were unwell, and he had handed over the cheques in question to
the complainant so that the complainant could show "financial
capacity" to his parents. He categorically denied any outstanding
liability towards the complainant and asserted that the cheques
were not issued for discharge of any legally enforceable debt or
for any consideration. The accused admitted that he knew the
complainant but denied having signed the cheques in question.
He further stated that he did not fill in any particulars on the
cheques, including the date or the name of the payee. He
acknowledged receiving the legal notice from the complainant,
including service via WhatsApp, and confirmed that the address
mentioned on the legal notice was correct. During admission and
denial of documents under Section 294 CrPC, the accused Digitally
 signed by
 komal
 komal Date: EVIDENCE LED BY THE COMPLAINANT: summoning evidence by way of affidavit Ex. CW1/A in his post-
summoning evidence bearing his signatures at Point A and B.
The complainant, in support of his case, relied upon various
documents which have been duly exhibited. The complaint
petition has been marked as Ex. CW1/1, while the three original
cheques in question have been exhibited as Ex. CW1/2 to Ex.
CW1/4. The three return memos issued by the bank are marked
as Ex. CW1/5, Ex. CW1/6, and Ex. CW1/8. The office copy of
the legal notice is exhibited as Ex. CW1/9, the postal receipt as
Ex. CW1/10 (colly), and the tracking report as Ex. CW1/11. A
 Digitally
 signed by
 komal
 komal Date: Harsh Yadav, Ld. Counsels for the accused. During cross-
examination, the complainant deposed that he had known the
accused since 2004 and had worked with him in India Bulls
during 2007-08 for approximately six months. He clarified that
all his financial dealings with the accused were in cash and he
had no formal business relationship with the accused. The
complainant also stated that he had gone to the house of the
accused in Vikas Puri, Delhi, to obtain proof of lending and that
the accused had issued the three cheques in lieu of the said
transaction, which he claimed to have received in December
2022. He confirmed having done trading work briefly during
2006-07 and mentioned that he filed Income Tax Returns (ITR)
from 2010 onward. CW-1 stated that full knowledge about the
operation was possessed by him. He further stated that, as per his
understanding, no trading account could be handled by any
person without proper authorization. He mentioned that he
maintained two trading accounts, but he did not recall the exact
namees under which those accounts were held. He asserted that
 Digitally
 signed by
 komal
 komal Date: read with Section 281 Cr.P.C. STATEMENT OF THE ACCUSED UNDER SECTION 313
CR.P.C. 17. The statement of the accused was recorded on 04.12.2024
under Section 313 of the CrPC, 1973. In response to the
incriminating circumstances appearing in the evidence, admitted
that he had received an amount of Rs.90,000/- from the
 Digitally
 signed by
 komal

CC NI ACT/7630/2023
 komal Page No. 8 of 21 Date: 18. In order to support his defence, the accused examined two
witnesses, including himself. Digitally
 signed by
 komal
 komal Date: 19. The accused Sumanto Pratik Sen stepped into the witness
box as DW-1 in support of his defence. He deposed that he had
made payments to the complainant, and to substantiate the same,
he relied upon his bank statement Ex. DW1/1 (colly). The
document comprises 19 pages and contains details of multiple
transactions, including entries showing transfers and payments
allegedly made to the complainant. He relied upon transactions
from his ICICI Bank account and also mentioned that his wife's
Bandhan Bank account, linked to his mobile number, was used
for receiving and refunding payments. During cross-examination,
the accused denied issuing any notice to the complainant or the
bank to stop payment of the cheques in question. He also denied
liability towards the complainant. He admitted holding an SBI
account opened in 2023 and produced its passbook, asserting that
the complainant's claim of having received any amount through
this account is false. The accused clarified that the cheques were
issued in a personal capacity and not on behalf of any company,
specifically denying any agency or official association with
Hash99 or its promoter, Mr. Gurjeet Singh Mann. He denied the
suggestion that the cheques were issued to discharge any legal
liability and claimed he has not adopted any false defence to
avoid legal consequences. Thereafter, the matter was listed for
final arguments. 20. DW-2, namely Sh. Gaurav, Sales Officer-2 at Axis Bank,
Khan Market, Delhi, appeared in the witness box and stated that
he had brought the summoned record, which included an attested Digitally
 signed by
 komal
 komal Date: ARGUMENTS 21. Final arguments were advanced on behalf of both the
parties. Rival submissions were heard on behalf of both the
parties. 22. Ld. Counsel for the complainant has argued that all the
ingredients of Section 138 of the NI Act have been satisfied in
the present case, and that the complainant has duly proven his
case. It was submitted that the legal liability has been established
through the original cheque, return memo, legal notice, and the
tracking receipt placed on record. Accordingly, it is prayed that
the accused be convicted. Ld. Counsel has further relied upon the
following judgments: Per contra , learned Counsel for the accused has
argued that the accused did not give the cheques in question in
relation to any legally enforceable debt, but merely for the sake
of showing 'financial capacity' by the accused to his family. It
has been further argued that no handwriting expert was called on
behalf of the complainant despite the accused has consistently
denied that the signature on the cheques raises credibility of the
complainant's case, as it is based solely on the exchange of cash,
without any written documentation or witness. It was also argued
that the complainant failed to present any documentary evidence
apart from the cheque in question to support the claim of any
investment on the saying of the accused. Furthermore, it was
submitted that the cheque in question has been misused by the
complainant, and therefore, the accused should be acquitted of
the offence alleged. POINTS OF DETERMINATION: 23. The following points of determination arise in the present
case: b. If yes, whether the accused has been successful in

 raising a probable defence? THE LAW APPLICABLE: 24. I have given my thoughtful consideration to the rival
submissions of the Ld. counsels from both sides and have also
perused the record. Before appreciation of evidence led on behalf
of the parties, at the very outset, I would like to narrate the legal
principles relevant for adjudication of complaint under Section
138 of NI Act. 25. The Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in Basalingappa v.
Mudibasappa , 2019 SCC OnLine SC 491 at page 422 held as
follows : 26. The three-judge bench of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Rangappa v. S. Mohan , (2010) 11 SCC 441 has ruled that
existence of liability itself is a presumption of law. It held as
under: 27. The Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in C.C. Alavi Haji v.
Palapetty Muhammed , (2007) 3 SCC (Cri) 236 at page 565 held
as follows: APPRECIATION OF EVIDENCE AND FINDINGS 28. It is the case of the complainant that he had invested a total
of Rs. 33 lakhs (including through bank transfers, cash, and via
his wife's account) on the assurance of the accused. The accused
initially paid a total of Rs. 1.95 lakhs in returns, but later
defaulted. In discharge of this liability, the accused issued three
post-dated cheques bearing Nos. 877856, 877857, and 877859
 Digitally
 signed by
 komal

CC NI ACT/7630/2023
 komal Page No. 14 of 21 Date: 29. The defence of the Accused at the stage of framing notice
under Section 251 CrPC is that he denied any liability and
claimed the cheques were handed over so the complainant could
show "financial capacity" to his family. In his Section 313 CrPC
statement and Section 315 CrPC testimony, the accused stated
that the accused received Rs. 90,000 from the complainant but
repaid Rs. 4.8 lakhs via digital modes. The cheques were never
issued towards any legal liability, but were blank cheques
misused by the complainant. He denied the signatures on the
cheques and claimed no formal business transaction existed. The
complainant voluntarily invested in crypto and forex ventures
(Gain Bitcoin and YaMarkets), over which the accused had no
official role. He produced his ICICI and SBI account statements
(Ex. DW1/1 colly) to prove repayments. POINT OF DETERMINATION NO. 1: 30. It is not in dispute that cheques in question bearing
Ex.CW1/2 to Ex.CW1/4 were drawn on account maintained by
the accused and the same have been signed by the accused. The
 Digitally
 signed by
 komal
 komal Date: 31. In view of the above-mentioned circumstances, the
presumptions under sections 139 and 118 NI Act that the cheque
in question was for a legally recoverable debt/liability stands
activated. 32. Accordingly, the point of determination no.1 is decided in
affirmative. POINT OF DETERMINATION NO. 2: 33. The burden to disprove the existence of legal liability is
upon the accused. This may be done by poking holes in the case
of the complainant or by leading positive evidence in defence. 34. Repayment claimed by accused: It is submitted by accused
as DW-1 that he had made payments to complainant. He had
relied on bank statement Ex.DW1/1. It is never suggested by
complainant in cross-examination that he had not received
 Digitally
 signed by
 komal
 komal Date: 35. Absence of documentary proof of liability: The
complainant was examined as CW-1, it is stated in the complaint
that he had transferred an amount of Rs.33 lacs to the accused.
There is no agreement between the parties, wherein the said
amount transferred is mentioned. The entire amount transferred is
not to accused but to some other person namely Anurag Sen. This
further fragments the liability and suggests lack of clarity about
who owed what. Moreover, the said person is not examined as
witness before this Court. No written agreement, ledger,
acknowledgment, or receipt corroborates the complainant's
version of having invested Rs. 33 lakhs. The cash transactions are
unaccounted for. In such circumstances it cannot be stated that
said amount was transferred on the saying of accused. It is not
reasonable for a person to transfer such huge amount to a person
without formal documentation. 36. Contradiction on Demat Account Control: While the
complaint alleges the accused closed the complainant's DEMAT
account, during cross-examination the complainant admitted that
no one else had access or control over the account, contradicting
his own averments. Digitally
 signed by
 komal
 komal Date: 37. Unregulated platforms and independent action: The
complainant has placed on record multiple emails (Ex. CW1/12)
purportedly from 'Yamarkets' confirming withdrawal requests
and transaction summaries. Nowhere in these communications is
the accused Sumanto Pratik Sen mentioned as a representative,
agent, or introducer of the said platform and hence do not
indicate any association of the accused with the trading account.
The complainant has not produced any communication (written
or electronic) wherein the accused induced, facilitated, or
misrepresented or advised the complainant to invest via
Yamarkets. The emails show direct communication between the
complainant and the alleged trading platform. This indicates that
the complainant acted independently or at the advice of a third
unknown party. The absence of any mention of the accused in the
emails weakens the allegation of inducement or liability. The
complainant's own documentation raises questions about the
authenticity of the trading platform "yamarkets". The use of
unverifiable contact numbers, generic email IDs, and lack of
regulatory transparency suggests possible online fraud. The
complainant has not submitted any direct evidence such as a
written agreement, communication, message or bank transaction
linking the accused to the operation of Yamarkets. However, the
burden to prove the accused's role in such a scheme has not been
discharged. 38. Admission by complainant: During cross-examination,
the complainant admitted filling in the name and date on the Digitally
 signed by
 komal
 komal Date: 39. No reply to legal notice: While accused's failure to reply
the legal notice is not fatal, it cannot by itself establish liability. 40. Accused's plausible explanation: The accused's consistent
stand that the cheques were handed over for non-commercial
reasons and misused was supported by documentary evidence
and was not shaken in cross-examination. The complainant,
while asserting that the cheques were given against investment
returns, failed to prove the existence of a legal debt or liability
enforceable by law. The transactions, most of which were cash
and related to cryptocurrency or forex schemes, lack
documentary clarity and legality. 41. "In Krishna Janardhan Bhat v. Dattatraya Hegde ," (2008)
4 SCC 54, the Court held that mere issuance and dishonour of
cheque is not sufficient and the complainant must prove a legally
enforceable liability. However, in the pressent case, no
agreement, acknowledgment, receipt, or financial document has
been brought on record that establishes a debtor-creditor
relationship between the complainant and the accused. In the
absence of such a legal relationship, the presumption under Section 139 NI Act stands rebutted . 42. It is well settled that the presumption under Section 139 NI
Act is rebuttable. In " Basalingappa v. Mudibasappa ", (2019) 5
 Digitally
 signed by
 komal
 komal Date: 43. Further, in " K. Subramani v. K. Damodara Naidu ", (2015)
1 SCC 99, it was held that failure to prove the basic ingredients
of the transaction defeats the presumption. 44. The benefit of doubt must go to the accused, especially in
view of the absence of reliable, cogent, and convincing evidence
to establish beyond reasonable doubt that the cheque was issued
in discharge of a legally enforceable debt. 45. In view of the above analysis and the lack of conclusive
evidence substantiating the complainant's claims, the court holds
that the complainant has failed to establish the accused's liability
beyond reasonable doubt or by preponderance of probabilities. 46. Accordingly, in light of the aforesaid discussion, the point
of determination no.2 is decided in affirmative. CONCLUSION: 47. In the present case, given the lack of cogent proof of a Digitally
 signed by
 komal
 komal Date: 48. Considering the overall circumstances, this Court finds that
the accused has successfully rebutted the statutory presumption
of law by establishing his defence on a preponderance of
probabilities. The defence has effectively discredited the
complainant's testimony through cross-examination of CW-1 and
provided a plausible explanation of the circumstances to support
his claim of innocence. 49. In light of the above discussion, this Court is of the
considered view that the accused has rebutted the presumptions
under the provisions of the NI Act . Therefore, accused Sumanto
Pratik Sen is hereby acquitted of the offence punishable under Section 138 of the NI Act in relation to the cheques involved in
the present case. Announced in the Open Court on this 9th May of 2025.
This Judgment consists of 21 pages. Digitally
 signed by
 komal
 komal Date: SAKET COURTS, ND, 09.05.2025 CC NI ACT/7630/2023 Page No. 21 of 21 NITIN TYAGI Vs. SUMANTO PRATIK SEN