SEPTEMBER 06, 2018. P.C. 1. We have perused the orders passed earlier, affidavit filed by

 Mr. Vijay J. Singhal, Additional Municipal Commissioner, the photographs

 annexed with the affidavit. The learned Senior Counsel appearing for the

 Corporation tenders affidavits of Mr. Ajay Chavan, Asst. Engineer, (M&E)

 SWD Project and Mr. S.T. Sonawane, Executive Engineer (SWD) Zone-III,

 which are taken on record. The learned Senior Counsel for the petitioner

 has also brought to our notice certain photographs of Nallah showing the

 construction / hutments which come up across, abutting the Nallah. It is ::: Uploaded on - 11/09/2018 ::: Downloaded on - 11/09/2018 23:52:15 ::: 2 8-wp-743-2001.doc

submitted that some area which was occupied by the slum structures was

removed so that Corporation vehicles reach to the location for cleaning the

garbage dumped in the Nallah and for smooth operation of water pump. 2. The petition filed in the year 2001 is still being considered at

regular intervals by this court on petitioner moving the court for

appropriate reliefs. It seems that the problem reaches alarming proportion

in the rainy season when due to heavy rains the Nallah overflows and due

to garbage dumped in the Nallah, it becomes difficult for the residents to

live day to day normal healthy life. Even during the remaining part of the

year, the residents are facing several inconveniences and hardship due to

dumping of garbage in the Nallah, it seems, mainly by the persons who are

occupying the area abutting Nallah. 3. The State Government, Local Authorities, Corporation need to

formulate a policy in respect of existing structures/hutments occupied by

the persons in the subject area abutting Nallah. A plan is required to be

drawn, which shall be in the larger interest of the residents of the said area. 4. The Corporation too shall formulate a policy having pumping

stations at specific locations. The Corporation needs to constitute special ::: Uploaded on - 11/09/2018 ::: Downloaded on - 11/09/2018 23:52:15 ::: 3 8-wp-743-2001.doc

squad to monitor the Nallahs affected by dumping of garbage. The learned

AGP shall discuss this issue with the learned Advocate General and at the

State level the issue needs to be discussed for forming policy in the larger

benefit of the citizens. An appropriate policy in this regard needs to be

framed by the Corporation. 5. The learned Senior Counsel for the Corporation has presented

two undertakings to the court one signed by Mr. D. P. Varade, Assistant

Engineer (M&E) SWD Projects and another signed by Mr. Hrushikesh

Chaudhari, Assistant Engineer (SWD) W.S. H/West, which shall be part of

this order. Said undertakings are taken on record and marked "X" & "Y"

respectively for identification. Said undertakings are accepted. 6. Stand over to 31/10/2018 for directions.