The petitioners have approached this court praying for

quashing of the proceeding of G.R. Case No. 925 of 2008 under Sections 120B / 420 / 468 / 471 IPC, in connection with Hare Street

Police Station Case No. 180 dated 05.4.2008, pending before the

learned Metropolitan Magistrate, 5th Court, Calcutta. Chronological event leading to this case is that on January

18, 2008, opposite party no. 2 filed a complaint under Section 156(3) of the Cr.P.C. before the learned Chief Metropolitan Magistrate,

Calcutta alleging offences under Sections 420 / 467 / 468 / 471 / 120B IPC against Siemens India Ltd., J. Schubert, Harminder Singh and

Tata Share Registry Ltd. None of the petitioners were named or even referred to in that

complaint and there was not even a single allegation against any of

them to be found therein. Following the complaint, by order dated January 18, 2008 of

the learned Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Calcutta a case being

Hare Street P.S. Case No. 180 dated 05.4.2008 was registered for

investigation. On usual investigation on September 9, 2009, the

Investigating Officer submitted Final Report True (FRT) describing

the case as civil in nature by not charge-sheeting the accused

persons namely, Siemens India Limited, Mr. J. Schburt, Managing

Director of M/s. Siemens India Limited, Mr. Harmindar Singh full

time Director of accused company aforesaid and M/s. Tata Share

Registry Limited now known as TSR Darashaw Ltd. against whom

specific allegation of fraudulent transaction in conspiracy with each

other was alleged with a view to cheat the complainant vide Charge-

sheet No. 96/2009 dated 09.9.2009 under Sections 420 / 467 / 468 / 471 / 120B IPC . On February 17, 2010, the de facto complainant filed a Naraji

petition against Final Report seeking reinvestigation. It is submitted

by Mr. Kapoor that none of the petitioners were named in the Naraji

petition either alleging commission of offence by them. After reinvestigation, the impugned Charge-sheet No.

458/2012 dated 15.12.2012 under Sections 120B / 468 / 420 / 471 IPC was filed against Bimala Devi Banka, wife of Madan Gopal

Banka as first accused and the petitioners. It is submitted that

without specifying even a single ingredient of any of the sections

against any of the petitioners but simply alleging that in the Annual

Report of the year 2007 of Siemens India Limited, the names of the

petitioners appear; and on this basis the petitioners have been

arraigned as accused persons in the Charge-sheet without giving

any data of materials to connect any of the petitioners with any

offences alleged therein. It is submitted that by Mr. S.K. Kapoor, Senior Counsel for the

petitioners that long prior to the filing of the complaint on 17th

August, 2006 the wife of the de facto complainant had filed T.S. No.

319 of 2006 in the City Civil Court, Calcutta against Siemens India

Limited, Tata Share Registry Limited, National Security Depository

Limited and Central Depository Services (India) Limited seeking

reliefs with regard to the shares referred to in the complaint. In the

said suit, written statements had been filed by the defendants
 namely, Siemens India Limited and Tata Share Registry Limited but

the petitioners were not made parties in that suit. There was not a

single allegation in the suit against any of the petitioners on any

account whatsoever. The suit anyway presently stands dismissed for

default. It is submitted by Mr. Himansu Dey, Ld. Counsel for the

opposite party No. 2 that an application under Order 9 Rule 9 of

CPC for restoration of the suit is still pending. It is further submitted

by Mr. Dey that the order of dismissal of the suit was on 22.3.2013

and the application for restoration was filed on 10.4.2013 well

within time. Mr. Kapoor submits that significantly, in the Title Suit Bimla

Banka, accused No. 1 mentioned in the Charge-sheet was

deliberately not added as a defendant. It is also contented that there

is nothing in the Charge-sheet to show that the petitioners or any of

them were with the company in 2005; also there is no specific

function related to any of them connecting them with the alleged

offences and furthermore, the petitioner no. 1 is no longer working

in the company having resigned and quit his employment in 2013;

petitioner No. 2 is an independent Director who is a Solicitor and

partner of a prominent Firm of Advocates in Bombay and does not

perform any executive functions in the company; petitioner No. 3 is

a German ex parties who joined the company in January, 2008 and

the petitioner no. 4 joined the company in July, 2008. It is also submitted that there is no case that any of the

petitioners had anything to do with the registration of shares or

membership of the company. Moreover, the complaint concerns

offences supposed to have occurred in 2005. Mr. Kapoor concludes with the submission that the

implication of the petitioners in the charge-sheet for the alleged

offence, merely because they are presently connected with the

company is absolutely without jurisdiction. Succinctly stated, the prosecution case is that the de facto

complainant who is the authorised representative of his wife Bimala

Devi Banka in complaint alleged that 125 equity shares of Siemens

Ltd., vide share No. 1839026 to 905025878 under certificate Nos.

56328 all under Folio No. SEB00142 total amount Rs. 20,00,000/-

had been fraudulently transacted in the name of one Bimal Devi

Banka by the accused persons named in FIR in collusion with each

other by manufacturing forged documents using the same as

genuine causing wrongful loss to the wife of the de facto

complainant. The incident occurred after 12.11.2005 at Siemens

Ltd. at 130, Pnlddurug Bukker Marg, Worli, Mumbai- 400 018. In the course of investigation I.O. seized documents on being

produced by officials of Siemens India Ltd., officials of CITI Bank's

official of NSDL and by the de facto complainant. It could be learnt
 that one of the accused namely, Schburt had already resigned who

is not an Indian and another accused namely Harmindar Singh had

already expired but on the Annual Report 2007 of Siemens India

Ltd., the accused persons mentioned in column 11(2), 11(3), 11(4)

and 11(5) were holding designation with Siemens at the time of

offence alleged revealing a prima facie case under Sections

120B / 468 / 420 / 471 IPC against them I.O. submitted charge-sheet

showing all of them as absconder. Mr. Kapoor argued that it is settled law that where an offence

is alleged to have been committed by a company before any officer of

the company can be even named as accused, it must be shown that

such person had something to do with the offence. Merely because a

person is a Managing Director or a Director of the company or a

General Manager or Secretary or lawyer engaged by the company it

will not follow that he can be named as an accused. It is further submitted that sections mentioned in the Charge-

sheet being Sections 420/467/468/471/120B of IPC do not provide

for vicarious liability and that it is necessary, before a Director or

officer of the company is named as accused, that the complaint

should show as to how and in what manner the accused was

responsible for the conduct of the business of the company and was

in some way connected with the offences complained of. Mr S.K. Kapoor, relied on, the following decisions wherein the

aforementioned principle has been enunciated by the Hon'ble Apex

Court-- 1. S.K. Alagh versus state of Uttar Pradesh and others (2008) 5 Supreme
 Court cases 662. 2. Maksud Saiyed v. State of Gujarat reported in ( 2008) 5 Supreme Court
 cases 668. 3. Sharon Michael and others v. State of Tamil Nadu and others (2009) 3
 Supreme Court cases 375. 4. Keki Hormusji and others versus Mehervan Rustom Irani and others (2009)6 Supreme Court cases 475. 5. Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited and Another
 Vs. Datar Switchgear Limited and others reported in (2010) 10 Supreme
 Court Cases 479. 6. Asoke Basak Vs. State of Maharashtra and others reported in (2010) 10
 Supreme Court Cases 660. 7. State of NCT of Delhi through Prosecuting Officer, Insecticides,
 Government of NCT, Delhi Vs. Rajiv Khurana reported in (2010) 11
 Supreme Court Cases 469. 8. Thermax Limited and others Vs. K. M. Johny and others reported in
 (2011) 13 Supreme Court Cases 412. 9. GHCL Employee Stock Option Trust Vs. Central Bureau of Investigation
 reported in 2013(4) SCC 609. 10. Sunil Bharti Mittal Vs. Central Bureau of Investigation reported in
 2015(4) SCC 609. In case of S.K. Alagh versus state of Uttar Pradesh and

others (2008) 5 Supreme Court cases 662 the sort question for

consideration was as to whether the complaint petition, even if given

face value and taken to be correct in its entirety, disclosed an

offence as against the appellant under section 406 of the penal code.

This was a case where the complainant wholesale dealer of the

company, after termination of dealership by the company, sent

demand drafts to the company for supply of goods. The proprietor of

the dealer firm filed a complaint before Chief Judicial Magistrate

alleging commission of offence under section 406 IPC by the

company and its MD on the ground that company with mala fide

intention neither supplied the goods nor returned the money. On the

contrary, the stand taken by the company was that bank draft was

returned to the complainant and its payment was received. On the above set of facts the Hon'ble Apex Court held that

complaint petition even assuming to be correct in its entirety, did

not disclose an offence under section 406 against the appellant.

Vicarious liability cannot be cast on appellant MD for alleged offence

committed by the company. If and when a statute contemplates

creation of such a legal fiction, it provides a specifically therefore. In

absence of any provision laid down under the statute, a director of a

company or any employee cannot be held to be vicariously liable for
 any offence committed by the company itself. Relying on a decision

of Maksud Saiyed v. State of Gujarat reported in (2008) 5

Supreme Court cases 668 where in it has been observed that

whereas a person in charge of the affairs of the company and in

control thereof has been made vicariously liable for the offence

committed by the company along with the company but even a case

falling under section 406 of the penal code vicarious liability has

been held to be not extendable to the directors or officers of the

company. In Maksud case (Supra), it was held that allegations contained

in the complaint petition, as noticed by the Magistrate, may give rise

to tortious liability on the part of the Bank. Principal allegations

were made against the Bank. Who had acted on behalf of the Bank

was not disclosed in the complaint. The bank is a body corporate.

Vicarious liability of the Managing Director and Director would arise

provided any provision exists in that behalf in the statute. In Sharon Michael and others v. State of Tamil Nadu and

others (2009) 3 Supreme Court cases 375, indisputably the

complainant was the producer of garments. The buyer is a German

company. Rightly or wrongly, the buyer refused to accept the goods,

inter alia, on the premise that the same were defective and sub-

standard. It is assumed that the appellant company was assured

payment for such supplies. Even if that be so, it would be a del
 credere agent. It's liability is, therefore, a civil liability. The

allegations contained in the FIR did not reveal that any

misrepresentation was made at the time of formation of the contract.

The goods were to be supplied by the complainant. They were

presumably required to meet the requirements of buyer. In this fact

situation, it was held that there is nothing to show that the

appellants who held different positions in the appellant company

made any representation in their personal capacities and, thus, they

cannot be made vicariously liable only because they are employees

of the company. In Keki Hormusji Gharda and others versus Mehervan

Rustom Irani and others (2009) 6 Supreme Court cases 475, the

appellants were Managing Director and Directors of a limited

company which owned a Villa. The villa was acquired by first

respondent. The appellants took decision on behalf of the company

to get the access road leading to Villa repaired through a contractor.

First respondent was opposed to this decision and therefore when

repair work was started by spraying tar on the road, he went to

police with the complaint that appellants and other persons who

were involved in repair of road should be stopped from doing this

Police authorities too instructed appellants to stop work but they did

not stop, and proceeded with repair of access road. First respondent

initiated criminal proceedings against the appellants under sections
 339 and 341 IPC on allegation that first respondent and his family

members were obstructed due to alleged illegal repair of road. In this

fact situation critically analysing the provision of section 339 and 341 IPC, Hon'ble Apex Court held that the facts disclosed does not

connote direct physical restraint. Repair of road might have caused

some inconvenience but does not amount to physical obstruction to

the complainant hence no offence was committed under sections

339 and 341 of the Penal code and further held that office bearers

like Directors of a limited company are not personally liable for

commission of an offence under penal code . The Penal Code, 1860

save and except in some matters does not contemplate any vicarious

liability on the part of a person. Commission of an offence by raising

a legal fiction or by creating a vicarious liability in terms of the

provisions of a statute must be expressly stated. The Managing

Director of the Directors of the company, thus, cannot be said to

have committed an offence only because they are holders of office. In Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company

Limited and Another Vs. Datar Switchgear Limited and others reported in (2010) 10 Supreme Court Cases 479, it has been

observed at paragraph 30 thus-- Adverting to paragraph 36 of the cited decision, Mr. Kapoor

fortified his argument with the submission that the contents of the

application under Section 156 (3) Cr.P.C. forwarded to the Officer-in-

Charge, Harestreet Police Station on the basis of which specific

criminal case was started does not even mention the names of the

present petitioners. There is not even an allegation indicating

participation of the petitioners in the commission of crime as alleged

by the prosecution likewise in the case cited above wherein it has

been observed by the Hon'ble Apex Court that the only averment

made against appellant no. 2 in the complaint was that appellant

no. 1 i.e. MSEB was acting under the control and management of

the appellant no. 2 along with other accused person and appellant

no. 2 happened to be Chairman of the MSEB but it is a settled

proposition of law that one cannot draw a presumption that a

Chairman of a company is responsible for all Acts committed by or

on behalf of the company. I am unable to agree with the contention put forth by Mr.

Kapoor as a whole, because it is equally a settled law that an FIR is
 not an encyclopaedia and none mention of the names of the accused

is not fatal to the prosecution. FIR is not a substantive piece of

evidence it is only for the purpose of corroboration or contradiction

by its matter. In case of Asoke Basak Vs. State of Maharashtra and

others reported in (2010) 10 Supreme Court Cases 660, the

appellant was the Chairman of the MSEB and the respondent no. 2

company had entered into various contracts with MSEB for

installation of low tension load management system. Respondent

nos. 3 & 4 were the senior officials of respondent no. 2 and

respondent no. 1 was the State of Maharashtra whereas respondent

no. 5 was one of the co-accused. The respondent no. 2 has deposited

on amount of Rs.5 lakhs with MSEB as security deposit in lieu of

bank guarantee to be used for tenders to be filed by respondent no.

2 from time to time in the future. The dispute arose between the

electricity board when respondent no. 2 informed MSEB that they

were no longer interested in participating in any tenders and sought

for immediate refund of Rs. 5 lakhs, but the Chief Engineer of the

board informed him that the said deposit amount had been adjusted

by the Board against the dues payable to respondent no. 2 to MSEB.

After such communication a complaint was lodged alleging

commission of offence under Section 405 and 409 read with Section

34 IPC against senior officials including Chairman of MSEB. On this
 facts and circumstances, the Hon'ble Apex Court was pleased to

hold that there was nothing in the complaint which might even

remotely suggest that complainant had entrusted any property to

appellant or that appellant had dominion over said money and

finding no prima facie case of offence punishable under Section 409 read with Section 405 in aid of Section 34 IPC was pleased to quash

the complaint. In State of NCT of Delhi through Prosecuting Officer,

Insecticides, Government of NCT, Delhi Vs. Rajiv Khurana

reported in (2010) 11 Supreme Court Cases 469, it was observed

thus at paragraph 17. Accordingly, it was held that in absence of such clear

averments in respect of the respondent accused being in-charge of

and responsible for conduct of business and no role having been

specifically attributed to the respondent accused in commission of

offence alleged, the accused cannot be compelled to face criminal

trial. In Thermax Limited and others Vs. K. M. Johny and

others reported in (2011) 13 Supreme Court Cases 412, it has

been held thus-- In this context, Mr. Kapoor submitted that prior to lodgement

of the criminal charge against the petitioners, the defacto

complainant opposite party no. 2 had filed T. S. No. 319 of 2006 in

the City Civil Court at Calcutta against Siemens India Ltd., Tata

Share Registry Limited, National Security Depository Limited and

Central Depository Services (India) Limited seeking reliefs with

regard to the shares in which suit the defendants namely Siemens

India Limited and Tata Share Registry Limited had filed written
 statements denying all particular materials made in the plaint which

was dismissed for default as no steps were taken by the opposite

party no. 2. Mr. Himansu Dey, learned Counsel for the de facto

complainant submitted that an application under Order 9, Rule 9 of

Code of Civil Procedure has been filed for restoration of the suit

which is still pending. On the contrary, Mr. Kapoor submitted that

the de facto complainant opposite party has been trying to

circumvent the jurisdiction of the civil Court for the reason that de

facto complainant allowed his suit to be dismissed for default with a

view to settle the dispute by taking recourse to criminal prosecution

of the petitioners. In GHCL Employee Stock Option Trust Vs. Central Bureau

of Investigation reported in 2013(4) SCC 505, It has been

observed in paragraph 12 as follows-- In Sunil Bharti Mittal Vs. Central Bureau of Investigation reported in 2015(4) SCC 609, it has been held that-- Observation as made in paragraph 42 is noteworthy in this

context which is as follows-- In K. V. Kamath V. Pradip Kr. Sureka and others reported

in 2010(2) CHN 681, a Co-ordinate Bench of this Court held that

the offences under Section 384 / 392 / 120B / 427 / 500 / 504 of IPC

cannot be levelled against the company which is juristic entity. The

description of the petitioner as representative of the bank, so as to

compel him to answer the charge is not permissible and neither the

company can be made and accused nor the petitioner who is said to

be the representative of the company by relying on the landmark

decision in S. K. Alagh v. State of UP , 2008(2) SCC 686. Mr. Dey, learned Counsel for the de facto complainant relied

on a decision of Medichl Chemicals & Pharma (P) Ltd. V.

Biological E. Ltd. and others reported in 2000 Supreme Court
 Cases (Cri) 615, wherein the principle postulated is that the

complaint has to be examined as a whole without going into merits

of the allegations made therein. If a prima facie case is made out

disclosing the ingredients of the offence alleged against the accused,

Court should not quash the complaint but if the allegations do not

constitute any offence as alleged and appear to be patently absurd

and improbable, Court should not hesitate to quash the complaint.

Court's approach should, however, be very circumspect, cautious

and careful. Mere fact that the offence was committed during the

course of a commercial transaction by itself not sufficient to quash

the complaint. For quashing the complaint, Court has to see

whether on offence under Section 120B , 418 , 415 and 420 read with Section 34 IPC has been committed by respondent in the course of a

contractual transaction alleged. It was held thus; In the above cited case the Hon'ble Apex Court relying on a

decision in Trisuns Chemical Industry v. Rajesh Agarwal reported in (1999) 8 SCC 686 observed at paragraph 9 in the

following lines-- I have respectfully gone through the decision cited above, ratio

decidendi is not well-nigh within the facts and circumstances of the

instant case because the names of the petitioners is not mentioned

in the complaint itself. I am fully aware of the settled proposition of

law that while exercising the inherent power, this Court is called

upon to see as to whether continuation of the proceeding would be a

total abuse of the process of Court. Mr. Dey, also relied on a decision of Soma Chakravarty v.

State through CBI reported in (2007) 2 Supreme Court Cases

(Cri) 514, wherein the Hon'ble Apex Court held that-- It has also been observed that charge may although be

directed to be framed when there exists a strong suspicion but it is

also trite that the court must come to a prima facie finding that

there exist some materials therefor. Suspicion alone, without

anything more, cannot form the basis therefor or held to be

sufficient for framing charge. This was a case of offence punishable under Sections 420 , 468 , 471 read with Section 120B and under Section 13(1)(d) read

with Section 13(2) of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 for fraud

and misappropriation of huge amount of Government money levelled

against the accused persons for having dishonestly processed and

verified fake bills to cause undue pecuniary advantage to herself,

though the appellant was not assigned any duty to process or sign

the bills in question, which the employee did so in respect of the

bills which were not sanctioned and approved by the competent

authority. The said bills were also not entered in bill register and no

file had been opened in respect thereof and file numbers written on

fictitious bills were fake. In this facts situations the Hon'ble Apex

Court held that there was existence of material on record to show a

prima facie case against the appellant warranting framing of charge

against her. Therefore, I am of the view that though the principle

applies but the decision is distinguishable from the instant case. Mr. Dey also relied on a decision of Indu Jain v. State of

Madhya Pradesh and others reported in (2009) 3 Supreme

Court Cases (Cri) 996, wherein it is held that at the stage of

framing of charge, the court is not required to go into the details of

the investigation but to only arrive at a prima facie finding on the

materials made available as to whether a charge could be sustained
 as recommended in the charge-sheet. The holding of a mini trial at

the time of framing of charge is deprecated. Thus, it reflects that a general guidelines has been enunciated

for the trial Court for its adherence in the matter of faming of charge

in Criminal Case because, the trial only starts with the framing of

charge but the decision cited above is not applicable in the instant

case. In Gunmala Sales Private Ltd. v. Anu Mehta reported in

(2015) 1 C Cr LR (SC) 445, wherein some directors of a company

approached another company for financial assistance which was

given. After due date of repayment, cheques were issued which were

returned by bank for insufficient fund. After statutory notice,

complaints were filed. Cognizance was taken. A revision was filed by

the directors before High Court. Holding that there is no material

evidence that the directors were responsible for conduct and day to

day business of company and having control over fund of company

except the bald assertion in the complaint, High Court quashed the

complaint. The point for consideration before the Hon'ble Apex Court was

whether quashing of complaint under Sections 138 / 141 , Negotiable

Instruments Act by High Court under Section 482 , Criminal

Procedure Code was justified in law. This was answered by holding
 that if a petition is filed under Section 482 of the Code for quashing

of such a complaint by the Director, the High Court may, in the facts

of a particular case, on an overall reading of the complaint, refuse to

quash the complaint because the complaint contains the basic

averment which is sufficient to make out a case against the Director. This decision is also not apposite to the facts and

circumstances of the case and is distinguishable. I have respectfully gone through the above cited decisions

pressed in service by respective parties. I am in respectful

consideration of them and of the view that ratio of decision in some

of the cases relied on by the rival parties are not within the facts and

circumstances of the instant case. Bestowing upon an anxious consideration of the complaint,

the charge-sheet and other materials on lower Court record together

with extenuating circumstances emerging therefrom and also relying

on the principle of law as held in the aforesaid cited decisions, I am

persuaded to agree with the proposition that where there is prima

facie case of offence against the accused emanating from the

materials on record, framing of charges no doubt is permissible, as

the proof of the offence lies with the prosecution to be judged on the

basis of the evidence to be adduced by the prosecution at the trial. I find from the statement of the de facto complainant recorded

under Section 161 Cr.P.C. and material collected under the seizure

list and the complaint petition itself that there are averment to this

effect that the complainant's wife had all along been holding the said

shares of Siemens India Limited for a long time and has not parted

with the possession of the said share certificates. The complainant's

wife forwarded such certificates to the accused no. 4 named in the

complaint through depository participant Union Bank of India for

transformation into electronic form and as such the question on

transferring the shares from complainant's wife folio to such any

other unauthorized persons account by the accused No. 4 does not

and cannot arise at all according to the rules and regulations of

SEBI causing wrongful loss to the complainant's wife for no fault of

her own. The complainant's wife has or had no such Demat Account

with Citi Bank N.A. as wrongfully alleged and during the said illegal

process fraudulently and wrongfully committed forgery of the

signature of the wife of complainant and obtained the benefit by

causing wrongful loss to the complainant's wife. That the accused

no. 4 however has not informed the aforesaid fact of fraud and

forgery straightway to the complainant's wife and thus avoided her

and wrongfully concealed the said fact of illegal transfer of her

shares to the shareholder i.e. the complainant's wife. Nevertheless, in the instant case I find on bare perusal of the

complaint, charge-sheet and materials on record that there appears

no allegation averred therein against the petitioners namely Darius

C. Shroff a Non-Executive Independent Director, Sunil Dass Mathur,

presently the Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer of

Siemens Ltd. but there does appear a prima facie case of offence

having been committed by Mr. Ajai Jain, Ex-employee of Siemens

Limited who allegedly resigned in 2013 to avoid prosecution because

he was the Vice-President legal and company Secretary during the

relevant period in 1992 having full control over the day to day

business of the company and against Dr. Armin Bruck , the then

Accounts Manager of Siemens India Limited in the year 1992 who is

presently Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the said

company in charge of day to day business, although, from series of

decisions, relied on by Mr. Kapoor, it may be concluded that it is

now a clenched position of law that the Managing Director or

Directors or Secretary or officials of a company cannot be said to

have committed an offence only because they are holders of office in

the company as there is no universal rule that a Director of a

company is in charge of its everyday affairs in absence of specific

pleading in the complaint about the role played by a Chairman,

Managing Director, Director, Secretary of the company and its
 officials in charge of day to day affairs of the company and their

responsibilities in the commission of offence alleged therein. Ergo, the charge-sheet No. 458 dated 15.12.2012 under Sections 120B / 420 / 468 / 471 of IPC in connection with Hare Street

Police Station Case No. 180 dated 05.4.2008 in GR case No. 925 of

2008 pending before the learned Metropolitan Magistrate, 5th Court,

Calcutta is liable to be quashed qua the petitioners namely

petitioner No. 2 and petitioner No. 4 only. However, such criminal

proceeding shall continue against the accused namely Bimala Devi

Banka, Ajai Kumar Jain, petitioner No. 1 and Dr. Armin Bruck,

petitioner No. 3 with this rider that the officials of the Siemens India

Limited, Tata Share Registry Limited, National Security Depository

Limited and Central Depository Services (India) Limited and their

concerned departments dealing with transfer of such shares are also

responsible for unearthing the truth about the alleged transfer of

share of rightful shareholder to fictitious person and to produce

relevant documents and registers showing the manner of disposal of

shares in the fake name of one Bimala Devi Banka and to depose

before the trial Court in the hour of need in the interest of justice. In the context above, this revisional application is allowed in

part. Let a copy of this order together with the lower Court record

be sent to the learned Court below to proceed with the trial of the

case. Urgent certified photocopy of this Judgment and order, if

applied for, be supplied to the parties upon compliance with all

requisite formalities. (SHIVAKANT PRASAD, J.)