This Criminal Petition, under Section 438 of the Code of Criminal

Procedure, 1973, is filed by the petitioners/A2 and A3 seeking to grant

anticipatory bail in the event of their arrest in Cr.No.99 of 2021 on the file

of Cyber Crime Police Station, Cyberabad District, registered for the

offences punishable under Sections 420 , 306 , 501 , 504 IPC and under Section 67 of Information Technology Act, 2008. 2. Heard learned counsel for the petitioners/A2 and A3, learned

Assistant Public Prosecutor appearing for the respondent-State and

perused the record. 3. The prosecution case is that the husband of de-facto complainant

has taken few loans through online and that due to the harassment made

by some unknown persons, her husband committed suicide by hanging

himself. 4. Learned counsel for the petitioners/A2 and A3 would submit that

the petitioners are only employees in M/s.Baryonyx Technologies Private

Limited and they are not holding any managerial post in the company. He

would further submit that even as per the complaint, the names of

petitioners were not mentioned. He would also submit that the petitioners

are law abiding citizens and ready to abide by any condition that may be

imposed by this Court in the event of their enlargement on anticipatory

bail. 5. Learned Assistant Public Prosecutor vehemently opposed to grant

anticipatory bail to the petitioners and submits that though the petitioners

were granted anticipatory bail earlier in Cr.No.1164 of 2020, they failed to

comply with the conditions imposed by this Court. 2 6. As per the confessional statement of other accused, the petitioners

being Chief Financial officer and H.R.Manager respectively, were

appointed the team leaders and tele caller workers for the company and

that the modus operandi of the company is that after giving loans to the

customers, for recovery of loan amount, they used different modes

depending upon the bucket by threatening, abusing them and their family

members in filthy language and that they used to morph the photos of

customers and post them in different Whatsapp groups by branding them

to be a fraudsters, cheaters, due to which, the husband of de-facto

complainant has committed suicide. The petitioners have given access to

the team members to adopt such harsh methods, as a result, innocent

persons have lost their lives by committing suicide. Moreover, learned

Assistant Public Prosecutor submits that the petitioners have failed to

comply with the conditions imposed by this Court while granting

anticipatory bail in Cr.No.1164 of 2020. Thus, looking into the nature of

allegations leveled against the petitioners and their involvement in

commission of the crime, I am not inclined to grant anticipatory bail to

petitioners and accordingly, their prayer for anticipatory bail is rejected.

However, the petitioners/A2 and A3 are directed to surrender before the

Court concerned within fifteen days from today, failing which, the police

concerned shall take coercive steps against them in accordance with law. 7. Accordingly, the Criminal Petition is dismissed. 8. Miscellaneous applications, if any pending in this criminal

petition, shall stand dismissed. __________________
 JUSTICE G.SRI DEVI
4th August, 2021

sj