The petitioner prays for grant of pre-arrest bail in a case

registered against him on 6.4.2010 for the offences under Sections 420 , 406 , 463 , 464 , 467 , 468 , 471 and 120-B Indian Penal Code. The FIR in the case has been registered against the petitioner,

against M/s U.B.M. Share Trading, SCO No.7, Ist Floor, Sector 10,

Panchkula and M/s Vivek Financial Focus Ltd., SCO No.7, Ist Floor, Sector

10, Panchkula on the complaint of Anubhav Singla. It has been alleged by

the complainant that fraud and cheating has been committed with him by

constructing false and fabricated documents with a view to cheat him and

grab his entire shares, dividends and bonus money. It has been alleged that

the complainant along with his parents owns various shares of numerous

companies and they had their respective savings as well as Demat accounts
 Cr. Misc. No.M-12933 of 2010 [2] in various banks including the UTI Bank Limited from where the

complainant and his parents were operating their share trading etc. The

sisters of the complainant were operating their shares trading of their own

similar kind of accounts in the said banks. In the year 2002, the accused

Sandeep Singla (petitioner) came in contact with the complainant and his

(complainant's) brother Rohit Singla. The petitioner resided with the

complainant at House No.907, Sector 9, Panchkula. At that time, the

petitioner was posted as Manager of the IndusInd Bank Limited, Sector 11,

Panchkula (`Bank' - for short). Since the petitioner and the complainant

and also the brother of the complainant were residing together in the same

house, they developed cordial relations amongst themselves. The

complainant and his family started treating the petitioner as a family

member in the house. Because of the said relations, the petitioner asked the

complainant and his parents to open a new bank account and to shift all

their shares etc. to the new accounts as he would monitor all these things

(transactions) in the IndusInd Bank as he was Manager there. On the asking

of the petitioner, the entire family of the complainant got their savings and

Demat accounts opened in the IndusInd Bank Branch Sector 11, Panchkula

and started their transactions through the said account. The petitioner some

time in the year 2003 took certain voucher slips of various shares of the

complainant and his family members lying in their house without any

information to the complainant or any of his family members. Thereafter,

since the petitioner was posted on the seat of sales or purchases of shares in

the Bank, he sold the shares of the complainant and his family members in

collusion with the other two other accused, namely, M/s U.B.M. Share
 Cr. Misc. No.M-12933 of 2010 [3] Trading and M/s Vivek Financial Focus Ltd. Thereby he misappropriated

the payments which he received from the sale of shares. During this time,

the complainant and his family members were unaware of these

transactions. They did ask the petitioner to issue statements of the share

holdings in the Demat accounts. Every time the petitioner used to give

fabricated statements of accounts of the complainant and his family

members under his signatures and some times without his signatures. These

statements, it is submitted, were fabricated by the petitioner just to show

that the shares etc. were being transacted from the accounts of the

complainant and his family members only. In this regard certain copies of

the fabricated/false statements issued by the petitioner were attached for

ready reference. In this manner, it is alleged that the petitioner in collusion

with the other accused enjoyed the amounts of the said shares in his account

and even obtained bonus, dividends etc. in his own account without any

information to the complainant. Thereafter, in the year 2006, the

complainant had an apprehension that there was misappropriation in his

accounts as well as in the accounts of his family members. The complainant

and his family members approached the head office of IndusInd Bank

Limited at Mumbai to issue statements of their respective accounts which

were issued by the Mumbai Head Office of the IndusInd Bank in the month

of December 2006. The complainant also got his earlier Savings Bank

Account No.0090781259001 closed and got opened a new account

No.0090781259002. On going through the statement (Annexure-C.3)

which was received in the month of December 2006, the complainant found

that the petitioner had duped him and his family members by
 Cr. Misc. No.M-12933 of 2010 [4] misappropriating `25 to `27 Lacs. On coming to know this, the

complainant and his family members asked the petitioner as to why he

committed such a fraud with the complainant and his family members. The

petitioner, however, stated that he required some money and he would return

the entire amount within some time. Thereafter, the petitioner shifted his

residence from the house of the complainant. The complainant approached

the petitioner on several occasions but he gave lame excuses on one pretext

or the other. The complainant then approached some respectable persons

and in their presence he was assured by the petitioner that he would get all

the shares of the complainant and his family members transferred in their

own names from his account and also return the money relating to bonuses,

dividends etc. which he used illegally. However, till date the money has not

been returned. It is alleged that the petitioner also gave in his own hand-

writing on an ordinary slip in this regard but he has not complied with the

same. The complainant finding no other alternative approached the

Manager of IndusInd Bank Limited, Sector 11, Panchkula in terms of letter

dated 3.5.2007 but the same did not have any effect. In the meantime, the

complainant also gave complaints in this respect to the SHO, Dhuri as well

as SSP Sangrur (Punjab) but no action was taken. The complainant was

advised by the Dhuri Police to file a complaint with the Panchkula Police as

the incident had occurred in Panchkula only. Accordingly, the complaint

was being filed. The petitioner instead of returning back the money of the

complainant and his family members had started threatening the

complainant one way or the other. In this manner, it is alleged that the

petitioner has committed a huge fraud and had cheated the complainant and
 Cr. Misc. No.M-12933 of 2010 [5] his family members and had illegally fabricated and forged certain

documents and accounts. The complainant and his family members are law

abiding and peaceful citizens and, therefore, it was prayed that FIR for the

offences as mentioned may be registered. Learned senior counsel appearing for the petitioner has

submitted that no shares of the complainant were transferred to the account

of the petitioner and no bonuses were ever received by the petitioner. The

complainant in fact sold his shares in the year 2003 to Sumeet Gupta and

later in the year 2006 on the asking of the complainant he purchased certain

shares and transferred them to the account of the complainant. Besides, the

petitioner has joined the investigation with the Police on several occasions. In response, learned counsel for the State and learned senior

counsel appearing for the complainant have submitted that the petitioner has

committed a huge fraud, inasmuch as, he gave Bank statements on his own

and under his signatures. Such statements are not issued by the Bank. In

this regard, the statement of Ms. Monika, Assistant Branch Manager of the

IndusInd Bank, Sector 11, Panchkula has been recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C. Besides, a reference has been made to the statement of account

which is on the Police file wherein he has carried out transactions of about

`20 Crores during the year 2003-04 in his own account. It is submitted that

the petitioner had given forged statements of accounts of the complainant. I have given my thoughtful consideration to the contentions of

the learned counsel appearing for the parties. It may be noticed that during

the course of investigation the statement of Ms. Monika, Assistant Branch

Manager of IndusInd Bank, Sector 11, Panchkula has been recorded. In her
 Cr. Misc. No.M-12933 of 2010 [6] supplementary statement recorded on 13.1.2011 she has stated as under:- A perusal of the above shows that the statement which is signed by

Sandeep Singla (petitioner) had been wrongly prepared by him and the

companies as mentioned do not reflect the actual share but enhanced shares

have been shown. Besides, it may be noticed that in the yearly account

statement of the petitioner from M/s U.B.M. Share Trading, Panchkula

insofar as the account of the petitioner is concerned he has 100 shares which

have been transferred to Federal Bank which has transferred 50 shares in the
 Cr. Misc. No.M-12933 of 2010 [8] account of ICICI Bank and 100 shares of Morgan Stanley have been taken

from the account of the complainant and transferred to the account of the

petitioner. The case involves commission of fraud relating to substantial

amount for which the custodial interrogation of the petitioner would be

required in the evidence collecting process. It is well known that

considerations governing the grant of pre-arrest bail under Section 438 Cr.P.C. are materially different from that seeking post-arrest bail or for that

matter even seeking suspension of sentence pending appeal before a

higher Court. In a case where pre-arrest bail is sought the advantage of

custodial interrogation of eliciting more and useful information and material

is to be kept in view. Besides, the exercise of power to grant pre-arrest bail

is somewhat extra-ordinary in character. In the facts and circumstances of the case, no ground for grant

of pre-arrest bail is made out. The criminal miscellaneous petition is

accordingly dismissed. February 3, 2011. (S.S. Saron)
 Judge
*hsp*