1. As these two petitions, under Section 34 of the Arbitration &

Conciliation Act, 1996 ('Act' for short), involve identical issues with

more or less identical facts, they are being decided by this common

order. OMP 69 & 70 of 2015 Page 1 of 25 Facts 2. It was the case of the respondents that in order to carry out their

investments opened trading accounts with National Stock Exchange

(NSE) through the respondent in July, 2011 and signed the documents

including KYC at Delhi. It was their case before the Arbitral Tribunal

that the petitioner had assured to send copies of KYC documents to them

from its Moradabad office but the same were not sent. The e-mails sent

on November 19, 2011 proved futile. On July 31, 2011, the respondents

along with her husband gave first cheque to the petitioner herein for an

amount of Rs.25 lacs from a bank account jointly operated by them

towards initial deposit. On August 01, 2011, certain trades were

conducted in their account, for which they received contract notes from

Sai Soft Securities. It was their case that they could not make out the

difference between the respondent company and Sai Soft Securities. The

respondents have also averred that in addition to signing KYC and other

documents, they had also executed a written agreement on September

24, 2011 with Sai Soft Securities signed by Dr. Mayank Dubey as its

authorized signatory, wherein they had given specific instructions as to

how the trades in their account were to be conducted. 3. According to them, the petitioner had suggested that the

respondents could enhance the value of the trade by giving securities as OMP 69 & 70 of 2015 Page 2 of 25 margin. On such representation, the respondents transferred securities as

margin to demat account of the persons nominated by the petitioner.

Regular transactions thereafter took place. These transactions were in the

name of Sai Soft Securities. According to the respondents, on November

05, 2012 they had noticed that trades were not verified on the exchange's

portal. When the matter was taken up by the respondents with the NSE,

no response was given, though they had followed up the matter with the

Exchange thereafter. It is noted that in consultation with the respondents,

on July 26, 2013 the petitioner trading member carried out hedging

trades and through e-mail of July 31, 2013 contract notes were

forwarded to the respondents with positions to close on October 31,

2013. It was the case of the respondents that the trading transactions took

place after July 31, 2013 as well. Certain instructions given by the

respondents to the petitioner with regard to trades and return of money to

them were not carried out by the petitioner herein. Their complaints

made to the Investor Grievances Redressal Forum of the Exchange

resulted in an order dated January 09, 2014 whereby amounts of Rs.1.70

Crore and Rs.1.50 Crore became admissible to both the respondents

herein. Meaningfully read, it was the case of the respondents that the

petitioner had carried out unauthorized transactions fraudulently. The

respondents in their claim petition had actually claimed an amount of OMP 69 & 70 of 2015 Page 3 of 25 Rs.1.93 Crore and Rs.1.57 Crore respectively. 4. The petitioner had contested the claims and filed a counter-claim.

The only case set up by the petitioner was primarily against order dated

January 09, 2014 passed by the Investor Grievance Redressal Forum

being illegal and the action of the Exchange whereby amount of the

petitioner has been withheld pursuant to the order of the Forum being

without jurisdiction and had sought the setting aside of the said order and

release of the amount by the Exchange. It was also the case of the

petitioner herein that the Forum or the Arbitral Tribunal had the

jurisdiction to consider any claim against the petitioner because it had

not conducted any trades on behalf of the respondents on the platform of

the exchange. It was also asserted that there was no written agreement

between the parties to refer the dispute to the arbitration as per the bye-

laws of the Exchange. The petitioner would further state that the

agreement dated September 24, 2011 is stated to be of no consequence

because it has not been executed by the petitioner and has never been

acted upon. The said agreement is in relation to portfolio management.

The petitioner also asserted that the contract notes put up by the

respondents have never been issued by the petitioner and are fictitious.

The petitioner however admitted the receipt of cheque of Rs.25 lacs

jointly signed by the respondents. 5. The Tribunal consisting of two Arbitrators and one Presiding

Arbitrator considered the issues which fell for their consideration. The

first question was whether the Arbitral Tribunal had the jurisdiction to

entertain the disputes or not. The Tribunal had referred to the agreement

dated September 24, 2011. It was its conclusion that the said agreement

was signed by Dr. Mayank Dubey on behalf of Sai Soft Securities. He

was one of the Directors of the petitioner herein namely Sai Soft

Securities Ltd. while Mr.Mayur Dubey, the other director of the

respondent had signed it as a witness, which fact was admitted by the

petitioner during the hearing before the Tribunal. The Tribunal was of

the view that Sai Soft Securities was represented to be a body corporate

and Dr. Mayank Dubey is its authorized signatory. It was also noted that

the agreement represented that Sai Soft Securities is registered with

SEBI and the Exchange and specific registration numbers have been

given. It was the conclusion of the Tribunal that the contract notes were

sent to the respondents by Sai Soft Securities. The address of the Sai Soft

Securities Ltd. and Sai Soft Securities is the same. Their e-mail

addresses admittedly are the same. The conclusion of the Arbiration

Tribunal was that there was a representation by the Sai Soft Securities as

a duly incorporated company for trading on the Exchange is nothing but

Sai Soft Securities Ltd. The Tribunal lifted the corporate veil to ascertain OMP 69 & 70 of 2015 Page 5 of 25 the real state of affairs, particularly when there were allegations of fraud

and serious misdemeanor. In para Nos.20 & 21, the Tribunal was of the

following view:- 6. On the issue of jurisdiction, the Tribunal rejected the argument on

behalf of the petitioner by placing reliance on Clause 1 of Chapter 11 of

the bye-laws of the Exchange by holding that the byelaws of the

Exchange clearly provides the claims, disputes or differences with

reference to anything incidental thereto or in pursuance thereto are also

within the jurisdiction of the Tribunal. The plea of the petitioner that no

trading done at the portal of the Exchange was also rejected as it was

held that the contract notes sent to the respondents by Sai Soft Securities

which has been found to be same as Sai Soft Securities Ltd. It was also

held that the contract notes clearly state that disputes are to be referred to OMP 69 & 70 of 2015 Page 8 of 25 the arbitration under the bye-laws of the Exchange. 7. Insofar as the contention that the agreement dated September 24,

2011 relates to portfolio management was also rejected inasmuch as the

petitioner being not registered with SEBI or any other authority under

portfolio management service regulations, it could not provide the

portfolio management services. 8. The petitioner herein challenged the order of the Arbitral Tribunal

before the Appellate Arbitral Tribunal ('AAT' for short) of the National

Stock Exchange of India Limited. The prayers made before the AAT are

as under: 9. The AAT in the impugned order dated 12.12.2014 noted the fact

that the petitioner had received the amount of initial deposit of Rs.25 lacs

paid by the respondents herein for the purpose of trading in their account

with the petitioner. The AAT was of the view that the respondents had

clearly established that they had made payment to the petitioner for the

purpose of trading after they opened trading account with the petitioner.

The transfer of securities to the petitioner and other director and

employee of the petitioner was also pursuant to the opening of the

trading account and was in pursuance of the respondents' intention to

trade with the petitioner. The AAT also holds that the petitioner has not

denied the contention of the respondents that they gave instructions to

the petitioner not to carry forward or roll over the trades and asked the

petitioner to return the money which was admittedly not returned. 10. The AAT justified the lifting of corporate veil to ascertain the real

state of affairs, particularly when the Tribunal found that there are

serious allegations of fraud and serious misdemeanor against the

petitioner. It relied upon the judgment of the Supreme Court in the case

of Madan Mohan Rajgariha vs. Mahender R. Shah & Brothers 2003

(7) SCC 138 that even in the absence of a member constituent OMP 69 & 70 of 2015 Page 10 of 25 agreement, the claims of a stock broker against the client/constituent

would be arbitrable in accordance with the bye-laws of the stock

exchange. The AAT was of the view that since the transactions have

taken place between the petitioner and the respondents, which can fully

be attributable to the transactions between a trading member and a

constituent and hence the bye-laws of NSE are applicable. The AAT had

also held that the two persons namely Dr. Mayank Dubey and Mr.

Mayur Dubey, the directors of the petitioner company who were the

authorized signatory and the witness to the agreement purported to have

been executed by Sai Soft Securities are the persons responsible for the

execution of the agreement with Sai Soft Securities. The AAT agreed

with the stand of the respondents, that some of the securities transferred

by the respondents to the Demat account of Mr. Mayur Dubey along

with some securities transferred to the Demat account of one of the

employees of the petitioner proves that both the entities were under the

control of same set of persons. The AAT relied upon the judgment of the

Supreme Court in case of LIC vs. Escorts Ltd. AIR 1986 SC 1370,

where the Supreme Court approved lifting of corporate veil where a

statute itself contemplate lifting of the veil or fraud or improper conduct

is intended to be prevented or a taxing statute or a beneficial statute is

sought to be evaded or where associated companies are inextricably OMP 69 & 70 of 2015 Page 11 of 25 connected as to be in reality part of one concern. Meaningfully read, it

was the conclusion of AAT that the Arbitral Tribunal was justified in

holding that the petitioner and Sai Soft Securities are the mirror image of

each other. 11. The AAT rejected the plea of the petitioner that the agreement

between Sai Soft Securities and the respondents is a portfolio

management. It also rejected the plea of jurisdiction of the Arbitral

Tribunal to proceed in the matter. 12. The case of the petitioner in the counterclaim was a challenge to

the order dated January 09, 2014 of the Investor Grievance Resolution

Panel, and the action of NSE whereby the NSE had withheld the amount

of the petitioner. 13. Learned counsel for the petitioner even in these proceedings,

under Section 34 of the Act has raised similar pleas as were advanced

before the Arbitral Tribunal and the AAT. The said contention of the

petitioner is primarily by placing reliance on Clause 1 of Chapter 11 of

the bye-laws of the Exchange with respect to matters which can be

referred to arbitration. Clause 1 of Chapter 11 of the byelaws which

relates to arbitration is reproduced as under:- 14. The contention primarily being no contracts or transactions were

entered into by the petitioner under the bye-laws of the Exchange. The

said submission need to be rejected in view of the conclusion arrived at

by the Arbitral Tribunal as well as AAT. Suffice to state, the authorities

were correct in lifting the corporate veil to ascertain the relationship

between the petitioner and the respondents. It is not denied that trading

in the accounts of the respondents had started immediately on the initial

deposit of Rs. 25 lacs by them. It is not in dispute that the said payment

was received by the petitioner herein. Even the transfer of securities by

the respondents to the demat account of Mr. Mayur Dubey and one of

the employees of the petitioner was also pursuant to the opening of the

trading account and as per the desire of the respondents to trade through

the petitioner. Even otherwise, I note that the petitioner herein is OMP 69 & 70 of 2015 Page 13 of 25 estopped from raising such a plea even before the Arbitral Tribunal as

well as before AAT, when the petitioner itself had made a counterclaim

before both the authorities challenging the order dated 09.01.2014 and

also seeking a prayer for setting aside the action taken by the NSE

withholding the deposit of the petitioner in both the cases. The filing of a

counterclaim by the petitioner presupposes the understanding of the

petitioner that the Arbitral Tribunal and the AAT has jurisdiction to

arbitrate the claims and counterclaim of the parties. It is a different issue

that the Arbitral Tribunal as well as AAT has rejected the counterclaim

of the petitioner on the ground that the counterclaim concerns the

Exchange and the petitioner and the reliefs are not within the jurisdiction

of the Arbitral Tribunal. In fact I note, the SEBI had issued circular dated

September 26, 2013 with regard to Investor Grievance Redressal

Mechanism, wherein the following has been decided:- The correspondence with the Member & investor (who is
 client of a Member) may be done on email if the email id of
 the investor is available in the UCC database. The Member
 (Stock Broker, Trading Member and Clearing Member)
 shall provide a dedicated email id to the stock exchange for
 this purpose. b) In case the matter does not get resolved, conciliation
 process of the exchange would start immediately after the
 time lines stated in sub-para (a) above. c) Investor Grievance Redressal Committee (IGRC) shall be
 allowed a time of 15 days to amicably resolve the investor
 complaint. d) IGRC shall adopt a two-fold approach i.e. for
 proceedings leading to direction to the Member to render
 required service in case of service related complaints and
 proceedings leading to an order concluding admissibility of
 the complaint or otherwise in case of trade related
 complaints. OMP 69 & 70 of 2015 Page 15 of 25 e) In case the matter is not resolved through the conciliation
 process, IGRC would ascertain the claim value admissible
 to the investor. f) Upon conclusion of the proceedings of IGRC, i.e. in case
 claim is admissible to the investor, Stock Exchanges shall
 block the admissible claim value from the deposit of the
 Member. g) The Stock Exchange shall give a time of 7days to the
 Member from the date of signing of IGRC directions as
 mentioned under sub-para (d) above to inform the Stock
 Exchange whether the Member intends to pursue the next
 level of resolution i.e. Arbitration. h) In case, the Member does not opt for arbitration, the
 Stock Exchange shall, release the blocked amount to the
 investor after the aforementioned 7 days. i) In case, the Member opts for arbitration and the claim
 value admissible to the investor is not more than Rs. 10 lac,
 the following shall be undertaken by the Stock Exchange

 i. . 50% of the admissible claim value or Rs. 0.75 lac, whichever is less, shall be released to
 the investor from IPF of the Stock Exchange. OMP 69 & 70 of 2015 Page 16 of 25 ii. In case the arbitration award is in favour of
 the investor and the Member opts for appellate
 arbitration then a positive difference of, 50% of
 the amount mentioned in the arbitration award
 or Rs. 1.5 lac, whichever is less and the amount
 already released to the investor at clause (i)
 above, shall be released to the investor from IPF
 of the Stock Exchange. iii. In case the appellate arbitration award is in
 favour of the investor and the Member opts for
 making an application under section 34 of the
 Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 to set
 aside the appellate arbitration award, then a
 positive difference of 75% of the amount
 determined in the appellate arbitration award or
 Rs. 2 lac, whichever is less and the amount
 already released to the investor at clause (i) and (ii) above, shall be released to the investor from
 IPF of the Stock Exchange. iv Before release of the said amounts from the
 IPF to the investor, the Stock Exchange shall
 obtain appropriate undertaking/indemnity from
 the investor against the release of the amount
 from IPF, to ensure return of the amount so OMP 69 & 70 of 2015 Page 17 of 25 released to the investor, in case the proceedings
 are decided against the investor. v If it is observed that there is an attempt by
 investor/client either individually or through
 collusion with Member(s) or with any other
 stakeholders, to misuse the provision of this
 Circular, then without prejudice to the powers
 of the Board to take action, appropriate action
 in this regard shall be taken against any such
 person, by the Stock Exchange, including
 disqualification of the person so involved from
 henceforth accessing the benefits of this
 Circular. vi In case the complaint is decided in favour of
 the investor after conclusion of the proceedings,
 then amount released to the investor shall be
 returned to IPF from the blocked amount of the
 Member by the Stock Exchange and the rest
 shall be paid to the investor. vii Total amount released to the investor
 through the facility of monetary relief from IPF
 in terms of this Circular shall not exceed Rs. 5lac in one financial year." OMP 69 & 70 of 2015 Page 18 of 25 15. From the perusal of the aforesaid circular, it is clear that, the

Trading Member (Petitioner) had an option to pursue the next level of

resolution i.e. the Arbitration. In fact, is seen that after the order dated

09.01.2014 was passed by the Investor Grievance Resolution Panel, the

respondents filed a claim petition before the Arbitral Tribunal which was

responded to by the petitioner by filing a counterclaim. In other words,

the petitioner had actually opted for the arbitration, or to say, submitted

to the jurisdiction of the Arbitral Tribunal in terms of the clause (g) of

circular dated September 26, 2013. If the petitioner had not opted for the

arbitration, the consequences were clearly laid down in Clause 2h of the

circular inasmuch as the stock exchange would have released the blocked

amount to the respondents. The issue decided by the Arbitral Tribunal in

the arbitration was the entitlement of the investor to the claims so made

against the trading member. The Arbitral Tribunal had rightly decided

the claims and had rejected the counterclaim. A favourable decision on

the claims of the respondents, has the effect of upholding the order dated

January 09, 2014 of the Investor Grievance Resolution Panel and a

decision against the petitioner on the counterclaim. It would not be

necessary for this Court to go into the question, whether rejection of the

counter claim, by the Arbitral Tribunal, on the ground that the relief

sought by the petitioner was against NSE, is justified or not, as the effect OMP 69 & 70 of 2015 Page 19 of 25 of allowing the claims of the respondents, has the effect of upholding the

order dated January 09, 2014 of the IGRP and consequently, rejecting

the counterclaim. 16. Having exercised the right under the said circular, the petitioner

could not have challenged the very jurisdiction of the Arbitral Tribunal

to which it has sought recourse. In fact, there is no challenge in the

counterclaim filed before the Arbitral Tribunal or in the appeal before

the AAT to the vires of the said circular. Hence, I am of the view that the

contention of the learned counsel for the petitioner with regard to the

jurisdiction of the Arbitral Tribunal to arbitrate the claims filed by the

respondents need to be rejected. 17. Insofar as the other findings of the Arbitral Tribunal and the AAT

are concerned, the same are finding of facts which this Court in exercise

of its jurisdiction under Section 34 of the Act would not like to interfere.

I note, the AAT has noted the judgment of the Supreme Court in Paradip

Port Trust & Others Vs. Unique Builders, Civil Appeal No. 3683 of

1996 and 4144 of 1996, wherein it was held that generally, an award

passed by the Arbitrator is considered binding and the power to set aside

the award will not be exercised unless there appears to be a mistake on

the face of the award. No mistake of the fact has been pointed out by the

learned counsel for the petitioner. I also note for benefit the judgment of OMP 69 & 70 of 2015 Page 20 of 25 the Division Bench of this Court in the case of State Trading

Corporation of India vs. Toepfer International Asia Pte . Ltd. 2014 (3)

Arb. LR 105 (Delhi) (DB), wherein at pages 112-115, it has been held as

under:- 18. The present appeals are accordingly dismissed with no order as to

costs. (V.KAMESWAR RAO)
 JUDGE
JANUARY 27, 2015
km OMP 69 & 70 of 2015 Page 25 of 25