- . As these Applications are under one Crime and common

submissions are advanced, they are decided by this common order. 2. These are the Applications under Section 482 of the Bharatiya

Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 (for short, 'BNSS') as the Applicants are

apprehending arrest in Crime No.0533/2025 registered with Shirdi 4 Police Station, Dist. Ahilyanagar on 15.05.2025 for the offences

punishable under Sections 420, 406, 419, 465, 468, 464, 471, 120B

r/w. Sec. 34 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (for short, ' I.P.C .') and Section 3 of the Maharashtra Protection of Interests of Depositors (in

Financial Establishments) Act, 1999 (hereinafter referred to as the

' MPID Act '). 3. It is the case of the Prosecution that, Shraddha Saburi Rural

Non-Agricultural Credit Co-operative Society Ltd., Nimgaon (Ko.), Tal.

Rahata, Dist. Ahilyanagar (hereinafter referred to as the 'Society') is the

Society registered under the Maharashtra Co-operative Societies Act,

1960 (for short 'the said Act'). The Audit of the Society was conducted

by the Authorized Auditor pursuant to the provisions of Section

81(1)(b) of the said Act. The said Audit was for the financial year 2023-

2024. The Auditor submitted the Audit Report after completion of the

audit of the Society. The Auditor found several illegalities in the

functioning / business of the Society and defalcation of the funds to the

tune of Rs.41,97,17,040/- (Rs. Forty One Crore Ninety Seven Lakh

Seventeen Thousand Forty). The Auditor submitted the Audit Report to

the concerned Assistant Registrar of the Co-operative Societies and the

Assistant Registrar prima facie found substance in respect of defalcation

of funds of the said Society, therefore, directed the Auditor to lodge the

FIR against the Chairman, Vice-chairman, Directors, Officers and Staff of 5 the Society. Accordingly, the Auditor lodged the FIR against 28 (twenty

eight) persons associated with the Society in different capacities

during the period from 2007 to 2024. 4. The arguments were led by the learned Senior Advocate for the

Applicant in Anticipatory Bail Application No.1158/2025 that, the Audit

was for the Financial Year 2023-24, however the Auditor has, in his

sweep, examined the functioning of the Society for the last

17 (seventeen) years, though his mandate was only for 5 (five) years.

The Auditor had fixed the liabilities on the Directors of the Society

under the said Act. There was no need to convert the Audit Report in

criminal proceedings. The Audit Report does not show culpability

against the Applicant. There is no foundation for the offences, under

which, the Crime is registered. No specific role is attributed to the

Applicant as the Director in the Report. No allegations of forgery are

levelled against the Directors. Much time has gone and the offence

being based on documents, the custodial interrogation of the Applicant

is not warranted and his liberty cannot be curtailed. The Auditor was

statutorily bound to follow the procedure under Section 81 of the said

Act and he lodged the FIR without obtaining sanction from the Registrar.

He submits that, the Applicant is ready to co-operate with the

investigating machinery and the Application be allowed. 6 4.1. It is submitted by the learned Advocate for the Applicant in

Anticipatory Bail Application No.1223 of 2025 that, the Applicant was

not the active Director. The conclusion of the Auditor is that, the

Directors were involved in keeping the tab on day-to-day affairs of the

Society and, therefore, the Applicant cannot be held responsible for the

Crime. The Applicant would be liable for civil law. Most of the amount

is recovered. The Applicant was not the beneficiary of a single rupee.

The case being based on the documents, the Applicant's custody was not

required. The provisions of the Maharashtra Co-operative Societies Act,

1960 would come into play and the only liability will be that of civil

consequences. Though the Applicant has signed the Minutes of

Resolutions passed in the meeting of the Directors, the actual work was

done by the Field Officers and therefore, the Directors cannot be held

responsible. He submits that, the Application be allowed and the

Applicant be protected. 4.2. It is submitted by the learned Advocate for the Applicants in

Anticipatory Bail Application Nos.1260 of 2025, 1265 of 2025, 1339 of

2025, 1341 of 2025 that, the learned Sessions Court rejected all the

Anticipatory Bail Applications by common order without application of

mind. The investigating machinery has seized all the documents and

Charge-sheet is filed and, therefore, the personal interrogation of the

Applicants is not necessary. The Bail is the rule and jail is the exception. 7 It is submitted that, the Applicant in Anticipatory Bail Application

No.1260 of 2025 had deposited his amount in Fixed Deposit to the tune

of Rs.16,50,000/- (Rs. Sixteen Lakh Fifty Thousand) with the Society.

Therefore, he cannot be held responsible for the Crime. It is submitted in

Anticipatory Bail Application No.1265 of 2025 that, the Applicant has

repaid the loan amount, therefore, he cannot be held responsible for the

Crime. He therefore submits that, the Applications be allowed and the

Applicants be protected. 4.3. It is submitted by the learned Advocate for the Applicants in

Anticipatory Bail Application Nos.1267 of 2025 and 1281 of 2025 that

the Chairman, Vice Chairman and the Manager of the Bank accepted the

liability and their mistake and therefore, the Applicants cannot be held

responsible. The FIR was lodged contrary to the provisions of Section

81 (5B) of the said Act without obtaining sanction from the Registrar.

No specific role is attributed to the Applicants. The Applicants are not

the beneficiary of the loan. In fact, the Applicants are one of the

depositors and the victims. The main Accused are behind the bars and

therefore, the Application be allowed and the Applicants be protected.

4.4. It is submitted by the learned Advocate for the Applicant in

Anticipatory Bail Application No.1350 of 2025 that, the Applicant was

the nominal Director and he had not taken any loan. The provisions of 8 Section 3 of the MPID Act are not applicable. The transactions in the

matter was of civil nature and the custody of the Applicant was not

required. He, therefore, submitted that, the Application be allowed and

the Applicant be protected. 5. It is submitted by the learned APP for the State that,

various illegalities were found during the audit of the Society.

Various modus operandi was resorted to by the FIR named Accused

resulting in defalcation of the public money. Though cash was shown in

the register, the actual cash was not found, unsecured loans were

sanctioned by the Directors, loans were disbursed to the persons who

had not even applied for the loans, the repayment of loan was not

ensured, the amounts were withdrawn by depositing the cheque

showing false loan account, etc. As defalcation of crores of rupees was

found, the lodging of the FIR cannot be faulted on the ground that the

procedure prescribed under Section 81 of the said Act was not followed.

He placed reliance on the Judgment in the case of Dhanraj N. Asawani

Vs Amarjeetsingh Mohindersingh Basi and Others , (2023) 20 SCC 13 6

wherein it is observed that, 'Section 81(5B) cannot be interpreted to

mean that any other person who comes to know about the financial

irregularity on the basis the Audit Report is debarred from reporting the

irregularity to the Police'. It is further observed that, 'once the criminal

law is set into motion, it is the duty of the police to investigate into the 9 alleged offence'. It is submitted that, the Applicants were the Directors

and the Body of the Directors was responsible for the affairs of the

Society. The illegal activities cannot be protected under the garb of not

following the procedure. He submitted that, the Applications be

rejected. 6. Perused the papers. First informant is the Chartered Accountant.

The First Informant conducted the Audit of the said Society and

submitted his Report. The Audit Report indicate several irregularities

and illegalities in the functioning of the Society and Auditor noted the

defalcation of the amount mentioned in the FIR and sought the

permission to set the criminal law into the motion. The communication

was made in that regard to the Assistant Registrar and the Assistant

Registrar having agreed with the observations made in the Audit Report

directed the Auditor to lodge the FIR and accordingly, the Auditor

lodged the Report. Therefore, in such circumstances and in view of the

above referred decision cited by the learned APP, the contention of the

learned Senior Advocate for the Applicant that, Application be allowed

on the point of not following the procedure contemplated under the said

Act, is unacceptable. 7. The FIR is based on the Audit Report conducted by the Authorized

Auditors. As per the Informant, during the course of audit, it was found 10 that, the loans were disbursed on the Fixed Deposits though the

depositors had not asked for the loan, the loans were disbursed without

sufficient security, the amounts were withdrawn by cheque from the

amount of the Societies fund deposited with the Nationalized Bank and

after withdrawal the amount was not deposited with the Society,

sanctioning certain loans without obtaining the sanction of the Board of

Directors, not maintaining the register for secured loans, not issuing the

Fixed Deposit Receipts to the customers, not attaching receipts to the

loan documents, granting exemption or concession in the interest on the

loan to the ineligible customers, showing duplicate accounts and

siphoning the funds, following wrong accounting system, not preparing

the vouchers at the appropriate time, not depositing the amount of Fixed

Deposits in the accounts of the depositors on expiry of the deposit

period, not updating software from time to time, etc. 8. On lodging of the Report, the Investigating Officer recorded the

Statement of Witnesses, which indicate that, some of the Witnesses

though had the Fixed Deposit in the Society, never applied for any loan,

however, the loan was shown against their names and amount was

withdrawn. The Statement of some of the Witnesses indicate that,

though they had the account in the Bank, another account was shown in

their name and loan was shown in the second account and the amount

was withdrawn. The documents seized by the Investigating Officer 11 indicate withdrawal of the amount from the Bank of India by way of

cheques bearing the stamp of Chairman and Vice-chairman of the

Society. The other documents collected during the course of

investigation, prima facie corroborate the FIR. 9. Undisputely, the Applicants were the Directors of the Society.

Copy of Model Bye-laws adopted by the Society provides certain powers,

duties and responsibilities of the Directors in Clause No.43. In the light

of the said Clause of the Bye-laws, the contention of the Applicants that,

they were not concerned with the daily affairs of the Society and the

entire daily transactions were carried out under the directions of the

Manager of the Society, who had the Authority to disburse the loan

against the Fixed Deposits, has no substance. Being the Directors of the

Society, the Applicants were the part of the decision making process of

the Society. The Copies of the Affidavits of the Manger and the then

Chairman filed with the Application, stating that, they were only

responsible for the affairs of the Society and no one else should be held

responsible for the affairs of the Society, will not be of any assistance

to the Applicant. The Applicants in these Applications, being the

Directors, cannot shirk their liability and responsibilities as provided

under the law. As the Report is based on detailed audit of the Society,

the communication by the Applicants and others dated 22.04.2024 to

the Police holding the Manger and the Chairman of the Society 12 responsible, will not be of any assistance at this stage. The manner in

 which the amount of Society was dealt with, and the manner in which

 the affairs of the Society were conducted, indicate prima facie case

 against the Applicants. In the facts and circumstances of the case, and

 for proper investigation of the Crime, in my view, these are not the fit

 cases to grant protection and hence, the following order. ORDER (i) The Applications are rejected. ( NEERAJ P. DHOTE, J. )

 GGP

Signed by: Gajanan G. Punde
Designation: PA To Honourable Judge
Date: 07/10/2025 20:19:56