K.S. Radhakrishnan, J. 1. We may, at the outset, point out that, at this stage, we are only
examining the maintainability of this contempt petition, on which arguments
have been advanced by the learned senior counsels on either side. This
contempt petition has been preferred under Article 129 , 142 of the
Constitution of India, read with Section 12 of the Contempt of Courts Act,
1971 (for short ‘the Act’) and Rule 12 of the Rules to Regulate Proceedings
for Contempt of the Supreme Court, 1975. 2. Shri Ram Jethmalani, learned senior counsel appearing for the first
respondent, submitted that this contempt petition is not maintainable since
it has been filed without the consent of the Attorney General of India or
other officer mentioned in Section 15 of the Act. Learned senior counsel
submitted that neither the order of this Court dated 06.05.2011 nor the
notice dated 23.05.2011 gives any indication of the nature of the criminal
contempt to be defended by the respondent. Learned senior counsel further
submitted that even the notice dated 23.05.2011 does not comply with Rule 6
of the Rules to Regulate Proceedings for Contempt of the Supreme Court,
1975. Learned senior counsel also submitted that it does not mention
whether it is a civil contempt or a criminal contempt. Learned senior
counsel also submitted that there is nothing to show that the first
respondent had any knowledge of this Court’s order dated 16.03.2011.
Consequently, it cannot be said that there was any willful disobedience of
that order. Further, such an allegation is not even raised in the notice.
Reliance was placed on the Judgment of this Court in Aligarh Municipal
Board and others v. Ekka Tonga Mazdoor Union and others (1970) 3 SCC 98.
Learned senior counsel submitted that the order, on which disobedience is
alleged to have been committed, is not within the knowledge of the
respondent and he is not expected or bound to know the same from the media
or newspapers. Learned senior counsel also pointed out that the burden to
prove the knowledge is not on the alleged contemnors, as held by this Court
in Bharat Steel Tubes Limited v. IFCI Limited (2010) 14 SCC 77. 3. Shri Rajiv Dhawan, learned senior counsel appearing for the second
respondent, submitted that consent of the Attorney General is a pre-
requisite to initiate contempt of court proceedings, which is not an empty
formality. Learned senior counsel submitted that second respondent is not
a party to any of the orders passed by this Court and he has not violated
any order passed by this court. Further, it was also pointed out that even
the notice is silent in what manner the second respondent has violated the
order passed by this Court. Learned senior counsel submitted that even the
powers conferred on this Court to issue suo motu notice is also limited and
could be exercised only in exceptional circumstances. Learned senior
counsel placed reliance on the Judgments of this Court in J.R. Parashar,
Advocate and others v. Prashant Bhushan, Advocate and others (2001) 6 SCC
735 and Sahdeo alias Sahdeo Singh v. State of Uttar Pradesh and others (2010) 3 SCC 705. 4. Shri Vikas Singh, learned senior counsel appearing for the third
respondent, also refuted all the allegations raised against the third
respondent and submitted that he has nothing to do with the service tenure
in the Enforcement Directorate or the cases relating to 2G Scam. Learned
senior counsel also submitted that the contempt petition itself is not
maintainable. 5. Shir K.K. Venugopal, learned senior counsel appearing for the C.B.I.,
submitted that the contempt alleged is not merely a criminal contempt but
also a civil contempt. Learned senior counsel referred to Section 2(b) of
the Act and submitted that there has been willful disobedience of the
directions of this Court by the respondents jointly and severally. Learned
senior counsel also referred to Section 2(c)(iii) of the Act and submitted
that the attempt of the respondents is to interfere and obstruct the
investigation conducted by the petitioner, which is being supervised and
monitored by this Court. Learned senior counsel further submitted that
this Court under Article 129 read with Article 142 of the Constitution has
the power to see that the investigation which is being supervised/monitored
by this Court is not interfered with by any person or from any quarters.
Learned senior counsel also submitted that no sanction from the Attorney
General is necessary when this Court suo motu initiates the contempt
proceedings in exercise of the powers conferred under Article 129 read with Article 142 of the Constitution, irrespective of the provisions of the Act
and the Rules to Regulate proceedings for Contempt of the Supreme Court,
1975. Learned senior counsel placed considerable reliance on the Judgment
of this Court in Amicus Curiae v. Prashant Bhushan and another (2010) 7 SCC 592. 6. We are, in this case, concerned with the question as to whether there
has been any attempt on the part of the respondents to interfere with an
investigation which is being monitored by this Court. When a court
monitors a criminal investigation it is the responsibility and duty of the
court to see that the investigation is being carried out in the right
direction and the Officers, who are entrusted with the task be not
intimidated or pressured by any person, however high he may be.
Considerable responsibility and duty is cast on the court when it monitors
a criminal investigation. People have trust and confidence when court
monitors a criminal investigation and the court has to live up to that
trust and confidence and any interference from any quarters to scuttle that
investigation, has to be sternly dealt with. 7. Civil Appeal No.10660 of 2010, in which the present contempt petition
has been preferred, was filed under Article 136 of the Constitution of
India praying for a court monitored investigation by the Central Bureau of
Investigation (CBI), what was described as 2G Spectrum Scam and also for a
direction to investigate the role played by A. Raja, the then Union
Minister for DoT, senior officers of DoT, middlemen, businessmen and
others. Before this Court, it was pointed out that the CBI had lodged a
first information report on 21.10.2009 alleging that during the years 2000-
2008 certain officials of the DoT entered into a criminal conspiracy with
certain private companies and misused their official position in the grant
of Unified Access Licenses causing wrongful loss to the nation, which was
estimated to be more than Rs.22,000 crores. CBI, following that,
registered a case No.RC-DAI-2009-A-0045(2G Spectrum Case) on 21.10.2009
under Section 120B IPC, 13(1)(d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 against a former Cabinet Minister and others. 8. The Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) also conducted an inquiry
under Section 8(d) of the Central Vigilance Commission Act, 2003 and
noticed grave irregularities in the grant of licences. The CVC on
12.10.2009 had forwarded the inquiry report to the Director, CBI to
investigate into the matter to establish the criminal conspiracy in the
allocation of 2G Spectrum under UASL policy of DoT and to bring to book all
wrongdoers. This Court after taking into consideration of the report of
the CVC as well as the findings recorded by the CAG agreed for a court
monitored investigation and passed the following order: 13. The petitioner, with reference to Sahara India Commercial Corporation
Limited, has stated as follows: 14. The petitioner, referring to the second Status Report covering the
period from 27.11.2010 to 08.02.2011, has referred to the involvement of
M/s Sahara India Investment Ltd., now known as M/s Sahara Prime City Ltd.
and stated as follows: 15. The petitioner, referring to the Sahara Group of Companies, stated as
under: That further investigation have revealed that M/s. Sahara India
 is operating more than 334 bank accounts and details thereof has been
 sought from all those banks which are yet to be scrutinized. This
 matter is also referred to the Income Tax Department on 29.09.2010 for
 further necessary action at their end. That during the course of enquiries a further information is
 received from a reliable sources that a company having registered
 office opposite Domestic Airport in Mumbai, which is a group company
 of Sahara Group, has given a loan a huge amounts in pounds to a
 company in Mauritius, which is purported to be a short term loan and
 investment in hospitality sector. This amount was transferred under
 an automatic route through a bank in Mumbai and this amount is
 transferred to a foreign country for acquisition of a property of a
 hotel company whose shares were pledged with the Bank and which money
 has been utilized to repay the outstanding of the bank. Summons are
 issued to the concerned bankers of the said companies for 09.05.2011
 for appearance of these bankers for recording of their statements.
 This entire matter is also referred to by the applicant to the Reserve
 Bank of India on 22.03.2011 and 11.04.2011 and response to some
 queries are yet to be received and the investigation in the said
 matter is under progress. That there is yet another investigation which is popularly
 referred is as Madhu Koda Scam case in respect of which the Division
 Bench of High Court of Jharkhand has issued directions, directing the
 Central Bureau of Investigation to conduct an investigation as regards
 the predicate offence and directed the Directorate of Enforcement to
 investigate offence under Foreign Exchange Management Act and
 Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 . These investigations are
 also under progress and are conducted by the applicant as an
 Investigating Officer. In this investigation properties worth Rs.125
 Crores have already been attached in exercise of powers under Prevention of Money Laundering Act and during the course of
 investigation it is suspected that large amount of funds which are
 tainted money which are proceeds of crime have been invested in Sahara
 Group companies by those accused persons with a view to project them
 as untainted money. The investigation of this is also being carried. It is submitted that all these investigations undertaken by the
 petitioner applicant, before your lordship, has irked the Sahara Group
 and more particularly the respondents.” 16. Petitioner submits that he is being personally attacked by the
respondents through various means so that he will not make further headway
in the investigation. The petitioner has explained in Paras 5 to 12 of the
petition, the manner in which he is being intimidated, which read as
follows: That this was forwarded to the Additional Director thorough
 proper channel and it is reliably learnt that the same is in the
 process being sent even to the Director, Central Bureau of
 Investigation, on my request. 7. It is submitted that on 05.05.2011, there has been an attempt to
 intimidate the applicant after hearing of the 2G Spectrum case was
 concluded before this Hon’ble Court. The applicant has received a
 letter purported to be sent by the respondent No.3, Shri Subodh Jain,
 which contain wielded threat to start a campaign against the applicant
 with a view to intimidate and, thus, interfered in the ongoing
 investigations against the Sahara Group companies in the 2G Spectrum
 case. On 05.05.2011, a copy of the said letter has been delivered by
 hand at the office of the applicant and at 15.43, the same is received
 on FAX of the Dy. Director, Directorate of Enforcement, copies thereof
 are annexed herewith and marked as ANNEXURE-F (COLLY). 8. The response to the queries raised is being produced in a sealed
 cover together with documents supporting the same for perusal of this
 Hon’ble Court. The only purpose of producing it in a sealed cover is
 to see such future intimidation to torpedo the ongoing investigation
 does not take place. The applicant respectively declares before this
 Hon’ble Court that he is ready and willing to file an affidavit of
 these disclosures before this Hon’ble Court. 9. The petitioner applicant respectfully submit that it is, thus,
 clear that only with a view to dissuade the petitioner, who is the
 Investigating Officer, to carry the investigation in the right
 direction against the Sahara Group, the respondents, and more
 particularly in the 2G Spectrum case, that the respondents have
 attempted to intimidate which is nothing sort of contempt of this
 Hon’ble Court since not only the investigation is monitored by this
 Hon’ble Court, but, this Hon’ble Court has given directions as
 contained in their lordship’s judgment dated 16.12.2010 and
 16.03.2011, which are being carried out by the applicant in the matter
 of investigation of 2G Spectrum case. 10. It is respectfully submitted that this attempt by the
 respondents to intimidate the applicant, who is the Investigating
 Officer is clearly an attempt to interfere or an attempt which tends
 to interfere with or obstruct or tends to obstruct the administration
 of justice and is thus a criminal contempt within the meaning of Section 2(c) of the Contempt of Court Act, 1971. It is submitted
 that this is an attack on the investigating officer carrying out the
 directions of this Hon’ble Court in his way to obstruct the course of
 justice by preventing the petitioner, who is the Investigating
 Officer, from carrying out the directions of this Hon’ble Court. 11. That this conduct is intended to impeach, embarrass and obstruct
 the applicant in the discharge of his duties and carrying out
 directions of this Hon’ble Court. It is respectfully submitted that
 it is expected out of the applicant that he is able to conduct the
 investigation free from any outside interference and the present
 letter dated 05.05.2011 intending to cause embarrassment to the
 applicant and detract him from the ongoing investigation is clearly an
 act of interference that would jeopardize the ongoing investigation
 and thus hamper the petitioner from carrying out the directions of
 this Hon’ble Court. 12 That this communication is intended to influence the petitioner
 publically and, thus, target him with an intention that the petitioner
 may not carry on the ongoing 2G Spectrum investigation as well as
 other investigations against the Sahara Group.” 17. We are of the view that if the allegations raised against the
contemnors are accepted, then we have to conclude prima facie that there
has been an attempt by the respondents to interfere with an investigation
undertaken by the petitioner which is being monitored by this Court. The
petitioner has stated that he has also filed a complaint of violation under
the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (FEMA) to the extent of Rs.4600
Crores against five more companies including M/s S-Tel and he is in the
process of filing five complaints involving an amount of Rs.1800 Crores
under the FEMA, 1999 and is also in the process of issuing an order of
attachment as contemplated under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act,
2002 . 18. We may point out that the allegations raised by the petitioner in the
contempt petition are of very serious nature and, if proved, would amount
to interference with the administration of justice, especially in a court
monitored investigation. In a court monitored investigation, if the
Officer who is entrusted with the task of carrying on that investigation is
experiencing any threat or pressure from any quarters, he is duty bound to
report the same to the court monitoring the investigation. The Officer
should have the freedom to carry on his duty entrusted, without any fear or
pressure from any quarters. The petitioner has invoked Article 129 and Article 142 to apprise this Court of the difficulties he faces while
carrying on a court monitored investigation. 19. Let us examine the extent of the power conferred on this Court under Article 129 of the Constitution, which reads as follows: 20. We are of the view that the Courts, if they are to serve the purpose
of administering the justice, must have the power to secure obedience to
the orders passed by it to prevent interference with its proceedings. Law
is well settled that the powers of the Supreme Court in contempt matters
are not confined merely to the provisions of the Contempt of Courts Act and
the Rules framed thereunder. Law of Contempt, as is often said, is only
one of the many ways in which the due process of law is prevented from
being perverted, hindered or thwarted to further the cause of justice.
This Court has plenary power to punish any person for contempt of court and
for that purpose it may require any person to be present in Court in the
manner it considers appropriate to the facts of the case. This Court in
Delhi Judicial Service Association, Tis Hazari Court, Delhi v. State of
Gujarat and others (1991) 4 SCC 406, examined at depth the scope of Article
129 of the Constitution and stated as follows: keeping in view the ultimate object of doing complete justice between
parties and the Court’s power to do complete justice is not confined by any
statutory provision. 25. We may indicate that the petitioner has inter alia invoked the
jurisdiction and power conferred on this Court under the above-mentioned
constitutional provisions and hence the consent of the Attorney General is
not necessary. Petitioner is only expected to bring to notice of this
Court the problems he confronts with while carrying on a court monitored
investigation and it is the duty and obligation of this Court to see,
rather than the petitioner, that nobody puts any pressure or threat on an
Officer entrusted with the duty to investigate a court monitored criminal
investigation. Any interference, by anybody, to scuttle a court monitored
investigation would amount to interfering with the administration of
justice. Courts, if they are to serve the cause of justice, must have the
power to secure obedience to its orders to prevent interference with the
proceedings and to protect the reputation of the legal system, its
components and its personnel, who on its behest carry on a court monitored
investigation. The court is duty bound to protect the dignity and
authority of this Court, at any cost, or else, the entire administration of
justice will crumble and law and order would be a casualty. 26. We are, therefore, of the view that the petition filed under the
above mentioned provisions is perfectly maintainable and this Court has got
a constitutional obligation to examine the truth of the allegations as to
whether the respondents are attempting to derail the investigation which is
being monitored by this Court. We, therefore, issue notice to the
respondents to show cause why proceedings be not initiated against them for
interfering with the court monitored criminal investigation. …………………………J.
 (G.S. Singhvi)

 …………………………J.
 (K.S. Radhakrishnan)
New Delhi,
December 9, 2013.