CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Civil Appeal No. 299 of 1961.
Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and decree dated
December 8, 1958 of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Second
Appeal No. 845 of 1953. Alladi Kuppuswami and R. Gopalakrishnan, for the appellants.
N. C.	 Chatterjee, S.G. Patwardhan, S. Balakrishnan, R.
Thiagarajan for N.S. Mani, for respondents Nos. 4, 7 and 8. The Judgment of the Court was delivered by
Mudholkar, J. In this appeal by special leave from a judg-
ment of the High Court of Andhra Pradesh the question which
arises	for consideration is whether	the interest of a
partner in partnership assets comprising of movable as	well
as immovable property	 should be treated as	 movable or
immovable property for the purposes of s. 17(1) of	 the
Registration 'Act, 1908. The question arises in this	way.
Members of two joint Hindu families, to whom we would refer
for convenience as 'the Addanki family and the Bhaskara
family, entered into partnership for the purpose of carrying
on business of hulling rice, decorticating groundnuts	etc.
Each family had half share in that business. The capital of
the partnership consisted, among other things, of some lands
belonging to the families.	During	the course of	 the
business of the partnership some more lands were acquired by
the partnership. The plaintiffs who are two members of	 the
Addanki family instituted a suit in the court of Subordinate
Judge, Chittoor on March 4, 1949 for the following reliefs
	 "(a) for a declaration that	 the	suit
	 properties belong to the plaintiffs	 and
	 defendants IO to 14 and defendants 1 to 9
	 equally for a division of the same into	four
	 equal shares, one share to be delivered to the
	 plaintiffs or for a division of the same	into
	 two equal shares to be delivered to	 the
	 plaintiffs and	the defendants	 10 to	 14
	 jointly; (b) or	in the alternative dissolving	 the
	 partnership between the plaintiffs	 and
	 defendants 10 to 14 on	 the one hand	 and
	 defendants 1 to 9 on the other hand directing
	 accounts to be taken; (c) directing the defendants	1 to 9 to
	 render accounts	of the income of the	suit
	 properties; (d) directing the defendants 1 to 9 to	 pay
	 the costs of the suit to the plaintiffs; (e) and	 pass such further relief as may be
	 deemed fit in the circumstances of the case.
It may be mentioned that in their suit the plaintiffs	made
all the members of the Bhaskara family as defendants	 and
also joined those members of the Addanki family who	 had
not joined as plaintiffs. We are concerned here only	with
the defence of the members of the	 Bhaskara family.
According to them the partnership was dissolved in the	year
1936 and accounts were settled between the two families. In
support of this plea they have relied upon a karar executed
in favour of Bhaskara Gurappa 402 Setty, who was presumably the karta of the Bhaskara family,
by five members of the Addanki family, who presumably
represented all the	members	 of the Addanki family.
Therefore, according	to the	 Bhaskara defendants;	 the
plaintiffs had	 no cause of action.	 Alternatively	they
contended that	 the suit was barred by time' In the	view
which we take it would not be necessary to consider	 the
second defence raised by the Addanki family. The relevant portion of the karar reads thus : This document	on its	 face shows that the	 partnership
business had come to an end and that the Addanki family	 had
given up their share in the "machine etc., in the business" From a perusal of these provisions it would be abundantly
clear that whatever may be the character of the property
which is brought in by the partners when the partnership is
formed	or which may	be acquired in	the course of	 the
business of the partnership it becomes the property of	 the
firm and what	 a partner is entitled to is his share of
profits, if any, accruing, to the partnership from	 the
realisation of this property, and upon dissolution of	 the
partnership to a share in the money representing the value
of the	 property. No doubt, since a	firm has no legal
existence, the	 partnership property will vest in all	 the
partners and in that sense every partner has an interest in
the property of the partnership. During the subsistence of
the partnership, however, no partner can deal with	 any
portion	 of the property as his own. Nor can he assign	 his
interest in a specific item of the partnership property to
anyone.	 His right is to obtain such profits, if any, as
fall to his share from time to time and upon the dissolution
of the	 firm to a share in the assets of the	 firm which
remain	after satisfying the liabilities set out in cl.	 (a)
and sub-cls.. (i), (ii) and (iii) of cl.(b) of s. 48 . It has
been stated in Lindley on Partnership, 12th ed.	 at p. 375
	 "What is meant by the share of a partner is
	 his proportion of the partnership assets after
	 they have been ill realised and converted
	 into money, and all the partner-ship debts and
	 liabilities have' been paid and	 discharged.
	 This it is, and this only which on the death
	 of a partner passes to his representatives, or
	 to a legatee of his share ..........	 and
	 which on his,	bankruptcy passes to	 his
	 trustee." This statement of law is based upon a number of decisions of
the English courts. One of these is Rodriguez v. Speyer
Bros.(1) H where at p. 68 it has been observed
(1) [1919] A.C. 59. No doubt this decision was subsequent to the enactment of
the English Partnership Act of 1890. Even	 in several
earlier cases, as for instance, Darby v. Darby(1) the , same
view has been expressed. That was a case where two Persons
purchased lands on a joint speculation with	their joint
monies	for the purpose of converting	them into building
plots and reselling them at a profit or loss.	It was	held
by Kindersley	V.C. that there was a	 conversion of	 the
property purchased out and out and upon the death of one of
the partners his share in the part of the unrealised estate
passed to his personal representatives.	 After examining the
earlier cases the learned Vice-Chancellor observed at p. 995
	 "The result then of the authorities may be
	 thus stated :-Lord Thurlow was of opinion that
	 a	 special contract was necessary	 to convert
	 the land into personalty : and Sir W. Grant
	 followed	that decision.	Lord Eldon on	more
	 than one occasion strongly "pressed	 his
	 opinion that Lord Thurlow's decision	 was
	 wrong. Sir J. Leach clearly decided in three
	 cases that there was conversion out and out : not apply to all kinds of partnership property
	 ? suppose that partners, for the	 purpose of
	 carrying	on their business, purchase,	 out
	 of the funds of the partnership, leasehold
	 estate, or take a lease of land,	 paying	 the
	 rent out of the partnership funds, can it be
	 doubted that the same rule which	 applies to
	 ordinary	 chattels- would apply to	such
	 leasehold	 property ? I do not think it	 was
	 ever questioned that, on a dissolution,	 the
	 right of each partner to have the	 partnership
	 effects sold applies to	 leasehold property
	 belonging to the partnership as much as to any
	 other stock-in-trade. No one	partner	 can
	 insist on retaining his share unsold.	 Nor
	 would it make any difference in whom the legal
	 estate was vested, whether in	one of	 the
	 partners or in all; this Court would regulate
	 the matter according to the equities. And Sir
	 W. Grant	 so decided in	Featherstonhaugh v.
	 Fenwick.( )" Even in a still earlier case Foster v. Hale(3) a person
:attempted to obtain an account of the profits of a colliery
on the ground that it was partnership property and it	 was
objected that
(1) 17 ves. 298. (3) 5 Ves. 308. (2) [1919] A.C. 59. there was no signed writing, such as the Statute of Frauds
required. Dealing with it the Lord Chancellor observed : It is pointed out by Lindley that this principle is carried
to its extreme limit by Vice-Chancellor Wigram in Dale v.
Hamilton (1).	Even so, it is pointed out that it must be
treated	 as a	binding	 authority in the absence of	 any
decision of the Court of Appeal to the contrary.
It seems to us that looldng to the scheme of the Indian	 Act
no other view can reasonably be taken.	The whole concept of
partnership is to embark upon a joint venture and for	that
purpose	 to bring in as capital money or even property
including immovable property.	Once that is done whatever is	 b
rought in would cease to be the trading asset of the
person who brought it in. It would be the trading asset of
the partnership in which all the partners	 would	have
interest in proportion to their share in the joint venture
of the business of partnership. The person who brought it
in would, therefore, not be able to claim or exercise	 any
exclusive right over any property which he has brought	 in,
much less over any other partnership property.	He would not
be able to exercise his right even to the extent of	 his
share in the	business of the partnership.	 As already
stated, his right during the subsistence of the	 partnership
is to get his share of profits from time to time as may be
agreed upon among the partners and after the dissolution of
the partnership or with his retirement from partnership of
the value of his share in the': net, partnership assets as
on the date of dissolution or retirement after a deduction
of liabilities	 and prior charges. It is true that	even
during	the subsistence of the partnership a	partner	 may
assign his share to another. In that case what the assignee
would get would be only that which is permitted by s. 29(1) ,
that is to say, the right to receive the share of profits of
the assignor and accept the account of profits agreed to by
the partners.	 There are not many decisions of the	High
Courts	on the	 point.	 in the few that there are	 the
preponderating view is
(1) 5 Ha. 369 on appeal 2 Ph. 266. M10Sup./Cl/66-13 408 in support of	 the position which we have	stated.	 In
Joharmal v. Tejrani Jagrup(1) which was decided by Jardine
and Telang JJ., the latter took the view that though a
partner's share does not include any specific part of	 any
specific item	of partnership property, still where	 the
partnership is entitled to immovable property,	 such share
does include an interest in immovable property and, there-
fore, every instrument operating to create or	 transfer a
right to such share requires to be registered under	 the Registration Act . In coming to this conclusion he mainly
purported to rely upon an observation contained in the fifth
edition	 of Lindley on Partnership	at p.	347.	This
observation is	 not to be found in the present	 edition of
Lindley's Partnership nor in the 9th or 10th editions which
were brought to our notice. The 5th edition,	however, is
not available.	 The learned Judge after quoting an earlier
statement which is that the "doctrine merely amounts to this
that on the death of a partner his share in the	 partnership
property is to be treated as money, not as land" says : The view, of Telang J., was not accepted by the Madras High-
Court. in Chitturi Venkataratnam v. Siram Subba Rao (1)., The
learns	Judges there discussed all the English decisions as
also the decisions in Sudarsanam Maistri v.	 Narasimhulu
Maistri ( 2) and Gopala Chetty v. Vijayaraghavachariar (-3) and
the opinion of Jardine J in Joharmal's case(4) held that,
an unregistered deed of release by a: partner of his share
in the, partnership business is admissible in evidence, even
where the partnership owns immovable property.	The learned
Judges	pointed out that though a partner may be a co-owner
in the partnership property he has no lights to ask for a'
share in the	property but;	only that the	 partnership
business should be wound up including, therein the sale of
immovable property and to ask for-	 his share in	 the
resulting assets. This. decisions was not	accepted as
laying down the correct law by a Division Bench of the	same
High Court in Samuvier v. Ramasubbier (5). The learned
Judges there relied upon the decision in Ashworth v.Munn(6)
in addition to the opinion of Telang J., I and also referred
to the decision Gray v. Smith(7) in coming' to a conclusion
contrary to the one in the earlier case. It may be pointed
out that the learned Judges have made no reference to	 the
decision of the Privy Council in Gopla Chetty 's case(3)
though:	 that was: one of the decision relied upon by
Phillips J., in the earlier case. In so far as Ashworth's
case(6)	 is concerned that was a case which turned on	 the
provisions of the Mortmain Acts and is not quite pertinent
for the decision on the point which was before them	 and
Which is now before us. In Gray. v. Smith(7) Kakewich	 J.,
held that an agreement by one of the partners to retire	 and
to assign his share in the partnership assets including, im-
movable	 property, is an agreement to assign an interest in
land, and falls within the statute of Frauds.	The view of
Kekewich J. seems to have received the approval of Cotton
L.J., one of the Judges of the court of Appeal,Though no
argument was raised before it challenging its	correctness. It may, however, be observed that even according to Kekewich
j., the authorities (Foster	v. Hale (8) and dale v.
Hamilton(9) establish	that one may have an agreement of
partnership by parol, notwithstanding that the	 partnership
is to deal with land. He, however, went on to observe: derations. In the one case you prove	 the
	 partnership by parol; you prove	the object,
	 the terms of the partnership, and so on.	 But
	 in the other case it is one of the essential
	 terms of the agreement that the party to be
	 charged shall convey an interest in land,	 and
	 that seems therefore to bring it	 necessarily
	 within the 4th	section of the	 Statute of
	 Frauds". In the	 case before, us also	in Samuvier's	case(1)	 the
document cannot be said to convey any immovable property by
a partner to another expressly or by necessary	implication.
If we	may recall, the document executed by	the Addanki
partners in favour of the Bhaskara partners records the fact
that the partnership business has come to an end and	that
the latter have given up their share in "the machine etc.,
and in the business" and that they have "made over same to
you alone completely by way of adjustment. There is no
express	 reference to any immovable property	herein.	 No
doubt,	the document does recite the fact that the Bhaskara
family	has given to the Addanki family certain property.
however, is merely a recital of a fact which had taken place
,earlier. To	cases of this	 type the observations of
Kekewich J, which we have quoted do not apply. The	view
taken in Samuvier 's case (1) seemed to commend itself to
Varadachariar J., in Thirumalappa v. Ramappa but he	 was
reversed in Ramappa v. Thirumalappa . (2)
 We may also	refer to the decision of a Full Bench in
Ajudhia	 Pershad Ram Pershad v. Sham Sunder &	 Ors.(3) in
which Cornelius J., has discussed most of the decisions we
have earlier referred to in addition to several others a id
reached	 the conclusion that while a	 partnership is in
existence no partner can point to any ,part of the assets of
the partnership as belonging to him alone. After examining
the relevant provisions of the Act,	 the learned judge
observed
	 "These sections	require that the debts	 and
	 liabilities should first be met out of	 the
	 firm property and there. (1) I.L.R. 55 Mad. 72.	 (2)	 A.I.R. 1939
	 Mad. 884. (3) A.I.R. 1947 Lah. 13. after the assets should be applied in rateable
	 payment to each partner of what is due to	 him
	 firstly	 on account	of advances	 as
	 distinguished from capital and,	secondly on
	 amount of capital, the residue, if any, being
	 divided rateably among all the partners.	 It
	 is obvious that the Act contemplates complete
	 liquidation of the assets of the	 partnership
	 as a preliminary to the settlement of accounts
	 between partners upon dissolution of the	firm
	 and it will, therefore, be correct to	 say
	 that, for the	 purposes of	the Indian
	 Partnership Act ,	 and irrespective of	 any
	 mutual agreement	 between the partners,	 the
	 share of	 each partner is, in the words of
	 Lindley : "his proportion of the	 partnership
	 assets after they have been all realised	 and
	 converted into money, and all the	 partnership
	 debts and liabilities have been paid	 and
	 discharged. This indeed is the view which has commended itself to us.
Mr. Kuppuswamy then referred us to two decisions of English
courts	in In re Fuller's Contract(1) and Burdett-Coutts v.
Inland	Revenue Commissioners(2) and on the passage at	 pp.
394 and 395 in Lindley's Partnership under the head "Form of
Transfer' in support of his argument. Both the cases relied
upon deal with contracts with third parties and not	with
agreements between partners inter se concerning retirement
or dissolution.	 The passage from Lindley deals with a	case
where there is an actual transfer of immovable property	 and
is, therefore, not in point. Mr. Chatterjee brought to our notice some English decisions
in addition to those we have adverted to in support, which
agree with the view taken in those cases. He has	also
referred to the decisions in Prem Raj Brahmin v. Bhani	 Ram
Brahmin( 3) and Firm Ram Sahay v. Bishwanath (4). We do	 not
think it necessary to discuss them because they do not	 add
to what we have already said in support of our view.
For these reasons we uphold the decree of the High Court and
dismiss the appeal with costs. Appeal dismissed. (1) [1933] Ch.	 D. 652. (2) [1960] 1 W.L.R. 1027. (3) I.L.R. E [1946] 1 Cal. 191. (4) A.I.R. 1963 Patna 221.