JUDGMENT

WITH
CIVIL APPEAL NOS. 4941-44 of 1998 
Shree Ahimsa Army Manav Kalyan
Jeev Daya Charitable Trust				Appellant

Versus

Mirzapur Moti Kureshi Kassab
Jamat, Ahmedabad & Ors.				Respondents

and
 
CIVIL APPEAL NO. 4945 of 1998
Akhil Bharat Krishi Goseva Sangh			Appellant
Versus
Mirzapur Moti Kureshi Kassab
Jamat, Ahmedabad & Ors.				Respondents

Delivered by
R.C. LAHOTI, CJI
A.K. MATHUR, J

R.C. LAHOTI, CJI Section 2 of the Bombay Animal Preservation (Gujarat 
Amendment) Act, 1994 (Gujarat Act No. 4 of 1994) which 
introduced certain amendments in Section 5 of the Bombay 
Animal Preservation Act, 1954 (as applicable to the State of 
Gujarat) has been struck down as ultra vires the Constitution by 
the High Court of Gujarat. These three sets of appeals by 
special leave have been filed thereagainst. A chain of events, legislative and judicial, lead to the 
impugned enactment. To appreciate the core issue arising for 
decision in these appeals and also the constitutional questions 
arising therein, it will be useful to set out the preceding events in 
their chronological order. PART - I

Backdrop of Events

Legislative history leading to impugned enactment

	With a view to conserve the cattle wealth of the State of 
Bombay, the State Government enacted the Bombay Animal 
Preservation Act, 1948 and prohibited slaughter of animals which 
were useful for milch, breeding or agricultural purposes. This 
Act was substituted by the Bombay Animal Preservation Act of 
1954 (hereinafter referred to as 'the Bombay Act '). The 
provisions relevant for our purpose are contained in Sections 5 and 6 . Sub-sections (1), (2) and (3) of Section 5 and Section 6 are extracted and reproduced hereunder : section (1), if in the opinion of the Competent 
Authority (a) the animal, whether male 
or female, is useful or likely 
to become useful for the 
purpose of draught or any 
kind of agricultural 
operations; (b) the animal, if male, is 
useful or likely to become 
useful for the purpose of 
breeding; (c) the animal, if female, is 
useful or likely to become 
useful for the purpose of 
giving milk or bearing 
offspring. (3) Nothing in this section shall apply to the 
slaughter of any animal above the age of 
fifteen years for bona-fide religious purposes : The Preamble to the Act stated  "WHEREAS it is expedient 
to provide for the preservation of animals suitable for milch, 
breeding or for agricultural purposes; It is hereby enacted as 
follows:-" The State of Gujarat was formed in the year 1960. 
Gujarat Legislature enacted The Bombay Animal Preservation 
(Gujarat Extension and Amendment) Act, 1961 whereby the Bombay Act was extended to the State of Gujarat in order to 
achieve uniformity in law in different parts of the State with 
regard to this subject. The Saurashtra Animal Preservation Act, 
1956 which was applicable to that part of Gujarat which formed 
part of erstwhile State of Saurashtra was repealed. Apart from 
extending the Bombay Act , Section 5 of the Bombay Act, which 
was called 'the principal Act' in the Gujarat Act of 1961, was also 
amended by Section 4 thereof which reads as under: (1)	After sub-section (1), the following sub-
section shall be inserted, namely :- The above Act was assented to by the Governor on the 1st 
May, 1961 which was published in the Gujarat Government 
Gazette, Extraordinary, Part IV, dated May 6, 1961. The objects 
of such extension were mainly two : (i) to achieve uniformity in 
law in different parts of the State; and (ii) to impose a ban on 
cow slaughter. The amendment introduced by Section 4 of the 
Bombay Animal Preservation (Gujarat Extension and 
Amendment) Act, 1961 indicates that slaughter of cow was 
totally banned. In 1979, the Gujarat Legislature enacted the Bombay 
Animal Preservation (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1979 to further 
amend the Bombay Act . Section 2 of this Act is relevant which is 
extracted and reproduced hereunder: (b) the calf of a cow, whether male or female
 and if male, whether castrated or not; (c) a bull below the age of sixteen years; (d) a bullock below the age of sixteen years"; (2) for sub-section (3), the following sub-section shall be 
substituted, namely:__

	"(3) Nothing in this section shall apply to __ (a) the slaughter of any of the following 
animals for such bonafide religious purposes, 
as may be prescribed, namely:__ (i) any animal above the age of fifteen years
	other than a cow, bull or bullock; (ii) a bull above the age of fifteen years; (iii) a bullock above the age of fifteen years; (b) the slaughter of any animal not being a 
cow or a calf of a cow, on such religious days 
as may be prescribed. Provided that a certificate in writing for the 
slaughter referred to in clause (a) or (b) has been 
obtained from the Competent Authority." The Act was preceded by an Ordinance, a reference to 
which is not necessary. The Statement of Objects and Reasons 
of the Act are stated as under: The above-said Act was assented to by the Governor on 
16th October 1979. The Act was given retrospective effect by 
sub-section (2) of Section 1 thereof, which provided that the 
amendment shall be deemed to have come into force on 28th 
November, 1978. Digressing a little from the narration of legislative 
development, here itself we may indicate that the constitutional 
validity of the above amendment introduced by the Gujarat 
Legislature into the Bombay Act was put in issue and came to be 
dealt with initially by the Gujarat High Court and then this Court 
by a Constitution Bench in Haji Usmanbhai Hasanbhai 
Qureshi and Others v. State of Gujarat , (1986) 3 SCC 12. 
The Gujarat High Court turned down the challenge and the 
decision of the Gujarat High Court was upheld by this Court. We 
will revert back to this decision a little later. This was followed by the impugned legislation, the Bombay 
Animal Preservation (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1994 . The 
Bombay Act of 1954 referred to as 'the principal Act' was further 
amended by Section 2 of the amending Act which reads as 
under: (1) in sub-section (1A), for clauses (c) 
and (d), the following clauses shall be 
substituted, namely :- The Act was preceded by an Ordinance, a reference to the 
provisions whereof is unnecessary. The Preamble to the Act 
reads as under: The Statement of Objects and Reasons and the facts set 
out therein are of relevance and significance and hence are 
reproduced hereunder: The Challenge to the Constitutional Validity

 
 	The constitutional validity of the abovesaid legislation, that 
is, the Bombay Animal Preservation (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 
1994 was put in issue by four writ petitions filed in the High 
Court which were heard and disposed of by a common judgment 
dated April 16, 1998. Two of the writ petitions were filed by 
individuals who were butchers by profession, and are known as 
Kureshis. Two writ petitions were filed by the representative 
bodies of Kureshis. Akhil Bharat Krishi Goseva Sangh sought for 
intervention before the High Court and was allowed to be 
impleaded as a party-respondent in the writ petitions. Hinsa 
Virodhak Sangh, Jivan Jagruti Trust and Gujarat Prantiya Arya 
Pratinidhi Sabha also sought for intervention and they were also 
allowed to be impleaded by the High Court as party-respondents 
in the writ petitions. The High Court allowed the writ petitions 
and struck down the impugned legislation as ultra vires the 
Constitution. The High Court held that the Amendment Act 
imposed an unreasonable restriction on the fundamental rights 
and therefore, it was ultra vires the Constitution. The effect of 
the judgment of the High Court as summed up by the learned 
Judges would be that there would not be a total ban on the 
slaughter of bulls or bullocks above the age of 16 years; in other 
words animals could be slaughtered consistently with the 
provisions of the parent Act as it stood prior to the amendment 
brought in by Gujarat Act No. 4 of 1994. Feeling aggrieved by the said decision , the State of Gujarat and Akhil Bharat Krishi 
Goseva Sangh have filed these appeals. Shree Ahimsa Army 
Manav Kalyan Jeev Daya Charitable Trust, a Public Trust has 
filed an appeal by special leave, seeking leave of this Court to 
file the appeal, which has been granted. On 17.2.2005, a three-Judge Bench of this Court, before 
which the appeals came up for hearing directed the matter to be 
placed for hearing before a Constitution Bench in the following 
terms of the order : On 19.7.2005, the Constitution Bench which heard the 
matter referred it to a Bench of seven Judges on an opinion that 
certain prior decisions of this Court by Constitution Benches 
might call for reconsideration. This is how the matter came to 
be heard by this Bench. We have heard Dr. L.M. Singhvi, Shri Soli J. Sorabjee and 
Shri S.K. Dholakia, Senior Advocates who led the submissions 
made on behalf of the appellants in the three sets of appeals. 
We have also heard Shri G.L. Sanghi, Senior Advocate and Shri 
Ramesh P. Bhatt, Senior Advocate, who led the arguments on 
behalf of the respondents (writ petitioners in High Court) in the 
several appeals. Before we notice and deal with the submissions 
made by the learned senior counsel for the appellants and the 
respondents, it will be useful to set out and deal with some of 
the decisions delivered by this Court which have been relied on 
by the High Court in its impugned judgment, and on which 
implicit and forceful reliance was placed by the learned senior 
counsel for the respondents in support of the judgment of the 
High Court. Relevant Decisions of this Court
	The most important and leading decision is Mohd. Hanif 
Quareshi and Ors. v. State of Bihar and Ors. 1959 SCR 629 
(hereinafter referred to as 'Quareshi-I'). We propose to deal 
with this case somewhat in detail. Three legislative enactments banning the slaughter of 
certain animals were passed respectively by the States of Bihar, 
Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. In Bihar, the Bihar 
Preservation and Improvement of Animals Act, 1956 (Bihar Act 
II of 1956) was introduced which imposed a total ban on the 
slaughter of all categories of animals belonging to the species of 
bovine cattle. In Uttar Pradesh, the Uttar Pradesh Prevention of 
Cow Slaughter Act, 1955 (U.P. Act I of 1956) was enacted which 
also imposed a total ban on the slaughter of cows and her 
progeny which included bulls, bullocks, heifers and cows. In the 
State of Madhya Pradesh, it was the C.P. and Berar Animal 
Preservation Act (Act LII of 1949) which was amended and 
applied. It imposed a total ban on the slaughter of cows and 
female calf of a cow. The male calf of a cow, bull, bullock, 
buffalo (male or female, adult or calf) could be slaughtered only 
on obtaining a certificate. The bans, as imposed by the three 
legislations were the subject matter of controversy. The challenge to the constitutional validity of the three 
legislations was founded on the following three grounds, as was 
dealt with in the judgment : (i) that the total ban offended the 
religion of the Muslims as the sacrifice of a cow on a particular 
day is enjoined or sanctioned by Islam; (ii) that such ban 
offended the fundamental right guaranteed to the Kasais 
(Butchers) under Article 19(1)(g) and was not a reasonable and 
valid restriction on their right; and (iii) that a total ban was not 
in the interest of the general public. On behalf of the States, 
heavy reliance was placed on Article 48 of the Constitution to 
which the writ petitioners responded that under Article 37 the 
Directive Principles were not enforceable by any court of law 
and, therefore, Article 48 had no relevance for the purpose of 
determining the constitutional validity of the impugned 
legislations which were alleged to be violative of the fundamental 
rights of the writ petitioners. Dealing with the challenge to the constitutional validity of 
the legislations, their Lordships reiterated the well accepted 
proposition based on several pronouncements of this Court that 
there is always a presumption in favour of the constitutionality of 
an enactment and that the burden lies upon him who attacks it 
to show that there has been a clear violation of the constitutional 
principles. The legislative wisdom as expressed in the impugned 
enactment can be pressed into service to support the 
presumption. Chief Justice S.R. Das spoke for the Constitution 
Bench and held :- (i) that a total ban on the slaughter of cows of 
all ages and calves of cows and calves of she-buffaloes, male or 
female, was quite reasonable and valid and is in consonance with 
the Directive Principles laid down in Article 48; (ii) that a total 
ban on the slaughter of she-buffaloes or breeding bulls or 
working bullocks (cattle as well as buffaloes) as long as they are 
capable of being used as milch or draught cattle was also 
reasonable and valid; and (iii) that a total ban on slaughter of 
she-buffaloes, bulls and bullocks (cattle or buffalo) after they 
ceased to be capable of yielding milk or of breeding or working 
as draught animals could not be supported as reasonable in the 
interests of the general public and was invalid. The first ground of challenge was simply turned down due 
to the meagre materials placed before their Lordships and the 
bald allegations and denials made by the parties. No one 
specially competent to expound the religious tenets of Islam filed 
any affidavit and no reference was made to any particular Surah 
of the Holy Quran which, in terms, requires the sacrifice of a 
cow. It was noticed that many Muslims do not sacrifice cow on 
the BakrI'd day. Their Lordships stated, inter alia :- Sankranti and Gopashtmi. A good number of temples are to be 
found where the statue of 'Nandi' or 'Bull' is regularly 
worshipped. However, we do not propose to delve further into 
the question as we must state, in all fairness to the learned 
counsel for the parties, that no one has tried to build any 
argument either in defence or in opposition to the judgment 
appealed against by placing reliance on religion or Article 25 of 
the Constitution. Dealing with the challenge founded on Article 14 of the 
Constitution, their Lordships reiterated the twin tests on the 
anvil of which the reasonability of classification for the purpose 
of legislation has to be tested, namely, (i) that the classification 
must be founded on an intelligible differentia which distinguishes 
persons or things that are grouped together from others left out 
of the group, and (ii) that such differentia must have a rational 
relation to the object sought to be achieved by the statute in 
question (p.652). Applying the twin tests to the facts of the 
cases before them, their Lordships held that it was quite clear 
that the objects sought to be achieved by the impugned Acts 
were the preservation, protection and improvement of 
livestocks. Cows, bulls, bullocks and calves of cows are no doubt 
the most important cattle for the agricultural economy of this 
country. Female buffaloes yield a large quantity of milk and are, 
therefore, well looked after and do not need as much protection 
as cows yielding a small quantity of milk require. As draught 
cattle, male buffaloes are not half as useful as bullocks. Sheep 
and goat give very little milk compared to the cows and the 
female buffaloes and have practically no utility as draught 
animals. These different categories of animals being susceptible 
of classification into separate groups on the basis of their 
usefulness to society, the butchers who kill each category may 
also be placed in distinct classes according to the effect produced 
on society by the carrying on of their respective occupations (p. 653). Their Lordships added :- Issues in Present Set of Appeals
Though there is no explicit concession given but it became 
clear during the course of prolonged hearing before us that the 
decision of this case hinges much on the answer to the question 
whether the view of this Court in Quareshi-I is to be upheld or 
not. While the submission of the learned senior counsel for the 
appellants has been that, to the extent the Constitution Bench in 
Quareshi-I holds the total ban on slaughter of cow progeny to 
be unconstitutional, it does not lay down good law for various 
reasons, the learned senior counsel for the writ petitioners-
respondents has submitted that Quareshi-I leads a chain of five 
decisions of this Court which in view of the principle of stare 
decisis, this Court should not upset. The learned senior counsel 
for the appellants find following faults with the view taken by 
this Court in Quareshi-I, to the extent to which it goes against 
the appellants:- The learned senior counsel for the appellants further 
submitted that Quareshi-I forms the foundation for subsequent 
decisions and if the very basis of Quareshi-I crumbles, the 
edifice of subsequent decisions which have followed Quareshi-I 
would also collapse. We will examine the validity of each of the 
contentions so advanced and at the end also examine whether 
the principle of stare decisis prevents us from reopening the 
question answered in favour of writ petitioners in Quareshi-I.

PART  II

Question-1. Fundamental Rights and Directive Principles:- (Para 14) (c) No abstract or general pattern 
or fixed principle can be laid down 
so as to be of universal 
application. It will have to vary 
from case to case and having 
regard to the changing conditions, 
the values of human life, social 
philosophy of the Constitution, 
prevailing conditions and the 
surrounding circumstances all of 
which must enter into the judicial 
verdict. (Para 15) (d) The Court is to examine the 
nature and extent, the purport 
and content of the right, the 
nature of the evil sought to be 
remedied by the statute, the ratio 
of harm caused to the citizen and 
the benefit conferred on the 
person or the community for 
whose benefit the legislation is 
passed. (Para 18 ) (e) There must be a direct and 
proximate nexus or a reasonable 
connection between the restriction 
imposed and the object which is 
sought to be achieved. (Para 20) (f) The needs of the prevailing 
social values must be satisfied by 
the restrictions meant to protect 
social welfare. (Para 22) (g) The restriction has to be 
viewed not only from the point of 
view of the citizen but the 
problem before the legislature and 
the object which is sought to be 
achieved by the statute. In other 
words, the Court must see 
whether the social control 
envisaged by Article 19 (1) is 
being effectuated by the 
restrictions imposed on the 
fundamental right. However 
important the right of a citizen or 
an individual may be it has to 
yield to the larger interests of the 
country or the community. (Para 24) (h) The Court is entitled to take 
into consideration matters of 
common report history of the 
times and matters of common 
knowledge and the circumstances 
existing at the time of the 
legislation for this purpose. (Para 25)" The message of Kesavananda Bharati is clear. The 
interest of a citizen or section of a community, howsoever 
important, is secondary to the interest of the country or 
community as a whole. For judging the reasonability of 
restrictions imposed on Fundamental Rights the relevant 
considerations are not only those as stated in Article 19 itself or 
in Part-III of the Constitution; the Directive Principles stated in 
Part-IV are also relevant. Changing factual conditions and State 
policy, including the one reflected in the impugned enactment, 
have to be considered and given weightage to by the courts while 
deciding the constitutional validity of legislative enactments. A 
restriction placed on any Fundamental Right, aimed at securing 
Directive Principles will be held as reasonable and hence intra 
vires subject to two limitations : first, that it does not run in clear 
conflict with the fundamental right, and secondly, that it has 
been enacted within the legislative competence of the enacting 
legislature under Part XI Chapter I of the Constitution. In Municipal Corporation of the City of Ahmedabad & 
Ors. v. Jan Mohammed Usmanbhai & Anr. , (1986) 3 SCC 
20, what was impugned before the High Court was a standing 
order issued by the Municipal Commissioner of the State of 
Ahmedabad, increasing the number of days on which slaughter 
houses should be kept closed to seven, in supersession of the 
earlier standing order which directed the closure for only four 
days. The writ petitioner, a beef dealer, challenged the 
constitutional validity of the impugned standing orders (both, the 
earlier and the subsequent one) as violative of Articles 14 and 19(1)(g) of the Constitution. The challenge based on Articles 14 of the Constitution was turned down both by the High Court and 
the Supreme Court. However, the High Court had struck down 
the seven days closure as not "in the interests of the general 
public" and hence not protected by Clause (6) of Article 19 of the 
Constitution. In appeal preferred by the Municipal Corporation, 
the Constitution Bench reversed the Judgment of the High Court 
and held that the objects sought to be achieved by the impugned 
standing orders were the preservation, protection and 
improvement of live-stock, which is one of the Directive 
Principles. Cows, bulls, bullocks and calves of cows are no doubt 
the most important cattle for our agricultural economy. They 
form a separate class and are entitled to be treated differently 
from other animals such as goats and sheep, which are 
slaughtered. The Constitution Bench ruled that the expression 
"in the interests of general public" is of a wide import covering 
public order, public health, public security, morals, economic 
welfare of the community and the objects mentioned in Part IV 
of the Constitution. In Workmen of Meenakshi Mills Ltd. and Others. v. 
Meenakshi Mills Ltd. and Anr. , (1992) 3 SCC 336, the 
Constitution Bench clearly ruled (vide para 27)  "Ordinarily any 
restriction so imposed which has the effect of promoting or 
effectuating a directive principle can be presumed to be a 
reasonable restriction in public interest." Similar view is taken in Papnasam Labour Union v. Madura Coats Ltd. and Anr. , 
(1995) 1 SCC 501. Directive Principles

Long back in The State of Bombay and anr. v. F.N. 
Balsara, 1951 SCR 682, a Constitution Bench had ruled that in 
judging the reasonableness of the restrictions imposed on the 
Fundamental Rights, one has to bear in mind the Directive 
Principles of State Policy set-forth in Part IV of the Constitution, 
while examining the challenge to the constitutional validity of law 
by reference to Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution. In a comparatively recent decision of this Court in M.R.F. 
Ltd. v. Inspector, Kerala Govt. and Ors. , (1998) 8 SCC 227, 
this Court, on a conspectus of its various prior decisions 
summed up principles as 'clearly discernible', out of which three 
that are relevant for our purpose, are extracted and reproduced 
hereunder. xxx		xxx		xxx		xxx
	
 	(3)	In order to judge the 
reasonableness of the restrictions, no abstract 
or general pattern or a fixed principle can be 
laid down so as to be of universal application 
and the same will vary from case to case as 
also with regard to changing conditions, values 
of human life, social philosophy of the 
Constitution, prevailing conditions and the 
surrounding circumstances. xxx		xxx		xxx		xxx
	
	(6)	There must be a direct and 
proximate nexus or a reasonable connection 
between the restrictions imposed and the 
object sought to be achieved. If there is a 
direct nexus between the restrictions and the 
object of the Act, then a strong presumption in 
favour of the constitutionality of the Act will 
naturally arise. (See: Kavalappara 
Kottarathil Kochuni Vs. State of Madras 
and Kerala , (1960) 3 SCR 887; O.K. Ghosh 
Vs. E.X. Joseph , 1963 Supp. (1) SCR 789)" Articles 48-A and 51-A have been introduced into the body 
of the Constitution by the Constitution (Forty-second 
Amendment) Act, 1976 with effect from 3.1.1977. These 
Articles were not a part of the Constitution when Quareshi-I, 
Quraishi-II and Mohd. Faruk's cases were decided by this 
Court. Further, Article 48 of the Constitution has also been 
assigned a higher weightage and wider expanse by the Supreme 
Court post Quareshi-I. Article 48 consists of two parts. The 
first part enjoins the State to "endeavour to organize agricultural 
and animal husbandry" and that too "on modern and scientific 
lines". The emphasis is not only on 'organization' but also on 
'modern and scientific lines'. The subject is 'agricultural and 
animal husbandry'. India is an agriculture based economy. 
According to 2001 census, 72.2% of the population still lives in 
villages (See- India Vision 2020, p.99) and survives for its 
livelihood on agriculture, animal husbandry and related 
occupations. The second part of Article 48 enjoins the State, 
de hors the generality of the mandate contained in its first part, 
to take steps, in particular, "for preserving and improving the 
breeds and prohibiting the slaughter of cows and calves and 
other milch and draught cattle". Article 48-A deals with "environment, forests and wild life". 
These three subjects have been dealt with in one Article for the 
simple reason that the three are inter-related. Protection and 
improvement of environment is necessary for safeguarding 
forests and wild life, which in turn protects and improves the 
environment. Forests and wild life are clearly inter-related and 
inter-dependent. They protect each other. Cow progeny excreta is scientifically recognized as a 
source of rich organic manure. It enables the farmers avoiding 
the use of chemicals and inorganic manure. This helps in 
improving the quality of earth and the environment. The 
impugned enactment enables the State in its endeavour to 
protect and improve the environment within the meaning of Article 48A of the Constitution. By enacting clause (g) in Article 51-A and giving it the 
status of a fundamental duty, one of the objects sought to be 
achieved by the Parliament is to ensure that the spirit and 
message of Articles 48 and 48A is honoured as a fundamental 
duty of every citizen. The Parliament availed the opportunity 
provided by the Constitution (Forty-second Amendment) Act, 
1976 to improve the manifestation of objects contained in Article 
48 and 48-A. While Article 48-A speaks of "environment", Article 
51-A(g) employs the expression "the natural environment" and 
includes therein "forests, lakes, rivers and wild life". While Article 
48 provides for "cows and calves and other milch and draught 
cattle", Article 51-A(g) enjoins it as a fundamental duty of every 
citizen "to have compassion for living creatures", which in its 
wider fold embraces the category of cattle spoken of specifically 
in Article 48. In AIIMS Students' Union v. AIIMS and Ors., (2002) 
1 SCC 428, a three-Judge Bench of this Court made it clear that 
fundamental duties, though not enforceable by writ of the court, 
yet provide valuable guidance and aid to interpretation and 
resolution of constitutional and legal issues. In case of doubt, 
peoples' wish as expressed through Article 51-A can serve as a 
guide not only for resolving the issue but also for constructing or 
moulding the relief to be given by the courts. The fundamental 
duties must be given their full meaning as expected by the 
enactment of the Forty-second Amendment. The Court further 
held that the State is, in a sense, 'all the citizens placed 
together' and, therefore, though Article 51A does not expressly 
cast any fundamental duty on the State, the fact remains that 
the duty of every citizen of India is, collectively speaking, the 
duty of the State. In Mohan Kumar Singhania & Ors. v. Union of India 
& Ors. , 1992 Supp (1) SCC 594, a governmental decision to 
give utmost importance to the training programme of the Indian 
Administrative Service selectees was upheld by deriving support 
from Article 51-A(j) of the Constitution, holding that the 
governmental decision was in consonance with one of the 
fundamental duties. In State of U.P. v. Yamuna Shanker Misra & Ors. , 
(1997) 4 SCC 7, this Court interpreted the object of writing the 
confidential reports and making entries in the character rolls by 
deriving support from Article 51-A(j) which enjoins upon every 
citizen the primary duty to constantly endeavour to strive 
towards excellence, individually and collectively. In Rural Litigation and Entitlement Kendra & Ors. v. 
State of Uttar Pradesh & Ors. , 1986 (Supp) SCC 517, a 
complete ban and closing of mining operations carried on in the 
Mussoorie hills was held to be sustainable by deriving support 
from the fundamental duty as enshrined in Article 51-A(g) of the 
Constitution. The Court held that preservation of the 
environment and keeping the ecological balance unaffected is a 
task which not only Governments but also every citizen must 
undertake. It is a social obligation of the State as well as of the 
individuals. In T.N. Godavarman Thirumalpad v. Union of India 
& Ors. , (2002) 10 SCC 606, a three-Judge Bench of this Court 
read Article 48-A and Article 51-A together as laying down the 
foundation for a jurisprudence of environmental protection and 
held that "Today, the State and the citizens are under a 
fundamental obligation to protect and improve the environment, 
including forests, lakes, rivers, wild life and to have compassion 
for living creatures". In State of W.B. & Ors. v. Sujit Kumar Rana , (2004) 
4 SCC 129, Articles 48 and 51-A(g) of the Constitution were 
read together and this Court expressed that these provisions 
have to be kept in mind while interpreting statutory provisions. It is thus clear that faced with the question of testing the 
constitutional validity of any statutory provision or an executive 
act, or for testing the reasonableness of any restriction cast by 
law on the exercise of any fundamental right by way of 
regulation, control or prohibition, the Directive Principles of State 
Policy and Fundamental Duties as enshrined in Article 51-A of 
the Constitution play a significant role. The decision in 
Quareshi-I in which the relevant provisions of the three 
impugned legislations was struck down on the singular ground of 
lack of reasonability, would have decided otherwise if only Article 
48 was assigned its full and correct meaning and due weightage 
was given thereto and Articles 48-A and 51-A(g) were available 
in the body of the Constitution. Question  3 : Milch and draught cattle, meaning of, in Article 48 Article 48 employs the expression 'cows and calves and 
other milch and draught cattle'. What meaning is to be assigned 
to the expression 'milch and draught cattle'? The question is whether when Article 48 precludes 
slaughter of cows and calves by description, the words 'milch 
and draught cattle' are described as a like species which should 
not be slaughtered or whether such species are protected only 
till they are 'milch or draught' and the protection ceases 
whenever, they cease to be 'milch or draught', either temporarily 
or permanently? According to their inherent genetic qualities, cattle breeds 
are broadly divided into 3 categories (i) Milch breed (ii) Draught 
breed, and (iii) Dual purpose breed. Milch breeds include all 
cattle breeds which have an inherent potential for milk 
production whereas draught breeds have an inherent potential 
for draught purposes like pulling, traction of loads etc. The dual 
purpose breeds have the potential to perform both the above 
functions. The term draught cattle indicates "the act of moving loads 
by drawing or pulling i.e. pull and traction etc. Chambers 20th 
Century Dictionary defines 'draught animal' as 'one used for 
drawing heavy loads'. Cows are milch cattle. Calves become draught or milch 
cattle on attaining a particular age. Having specifically spoken of 
cows and calves, the latter being a cow progeny, the framers of 
the Constitution chose not to catalogue the list of other milch and 
draught cattle and felt satisfied by employing a general 
expression "other milch and draught cattle" which in their opinion 
any reader of the Constitution would understand in the context of 
the previous words "cows and calves". According to Chambers 20th Century Dictionary, compassion is 
"fellow  feeling, or sorrow for the sufferings of another : pity". 
Compassion is suggestive of sentiments, a soft feeling, emotions 
arising out of sympathy, pity and kindness. The concept of 
compassion for living creatures enshrined in Article 51A (g) is 
based on the background of the rich cultural heritage of India  
the land of Mahatama Gandhi, Vinobha, Mahaveer, Budha, Nanak 
and others. No religion or holy book in any part of the world 
teaches or encourages cruelty. Indian society is a pluralistic 
society. It has unity in diversity. The religions, cultures and 
people may be diverse, yet all speak in one voice that cruelty to 
any living creature must be curbed and ceased. A cattle which 
has served human beings is entitled to compassion in its old age 
when it has ceased to be milch or draught and becomes so-called 
'useless'. It will be an act of reprehensible ingratitude to 
condemn a cattle in its old age as useless and send it to a 
slaughter house taking away the little time from its natural life 
that it would have lived, forgetting its service for the major part 
of its life, for which it had remained milch or draught. We have 
to remember : the weak and meek need more of protection and 
compassion. In our opinion, the expression 'milch or draught cattle' as 
employed in Article 48 of the Constitution is a description of a 
classification or species of cattle as distinct from cattle which by 
their nature are not milch or draught and the said words do not 
include milch or draught cattle, which on account of age or 
disability, cease to be functional for those purposes either 
temporarily or permanently. The said words take colour from the 
preceding words "cows or calves". A specie of cattle which is 
milch or draught for a number of years during its span of life is to 
be included within the said expression. On ceasing to be milch or 
draught it cannot be pulled out from the category of "other milch 
and draught cattle." Question - 4 : Statement of Objects and Reasons - 
Significance and Role thereof

	Reference to the Statement of Objects and Reasons is 
permissible for understanding the background, antecedent state 
of affairs in relation to the statute, and the evil which the 
statute was sought to remedy. (See __ Principles of Statutory 
Interpretation by Justice G.P. Singh, 9th Edition, 2004, at 
p.218). In State of West Bengal v. Subodh Gopal Bose 
and Ors. , 1954 SCR 587, the Constitution Bench was testing 
the constitutional validity of the legislation impugned therein. 
The Statement of Objects and Reasons was used by S.R. 
Das, J. for ascertaining the conditions prevalent at that time 
which led to the introduction of the Bill and the extent and 
urgency of the evil which was sought to be remedied, in 
addition to testing the reasonableness of the restrictions 
imposed by the impugned provision. In his opinion, it was 
indeed very unfortunate that the Statement of Objects and 
Reasons was not placed before the High Court which would 
have assisted the High Court in arriving at the right conclusion 
as to the reasonableness of the restriction imposed. State of 
West Bengal v. Union of India , (1964) 1 SCR 371, 431-32 
approved the use of Statement of Objects and Reasons for the 
purpose of understanding the background and the antecedent 
state of affairs leading upto the legislation. In Quareshi-I itself, which has been very strongly relied 
upon by the learned counsel for the respondents before us, 
Chief Justice S.R. Das has held:- Question - 5 : Article 19(1)(g) : 'Regulation' or 
'Restriction' includes Total Prohibition; Partial Restraint is 
not Total Prohibition

 	Respondents rely on Article 19(1)(g) which deals with the 
fundamental right to 'practise any profession or to carry on any 
occupation, trade or business'. This right is subject to Article 
19(6) which permits reasonable restrictions to be imposed on it 
in the interests of the general public. This raises the question of what is the meaning of the 
word 'restriction'. Three propositions are well settled:- (i) 'restriction' 
includes cases of 'prohibition'; (ii) the standard for judging 
reasonability of restriction or restriction amounting to 
prohibition remains the same, excepting that a total prohibition 
must also satisfy the test that a lesser alternative would be 
inadequate; and (iii) whether a restriction in effect amounts to 
a total prohibition is a question of fact which shall have to be 
determined with regard to the facts and circumstances of each 
case, the ambit of the right and the effect of the restriction 
upon the exercise of that right. Reference may be made to 
Madhya Bharat Cotton Association Ltd. v. Union of India 
(UOI) and Anr., AIR 1954 SC 634, Krishna Kumar v. 
Municipal Committee of Bhatapara, (Petition No.660 of 
1954 decided on 21st February 1957 by Constitution Bench) 
(See __ Compilation of Supreme Court Judgments, 1957 Jan-
May page 33, available in Supreme Court Judges Library), 
Narendra Kumar and Ors. v. Union of India (UOI) and 
Ors., ( 1960) 2 SCR 375, The State of Maharashtra v. 
Himmatbhai Narbheram Rao and Ors. , ( 1969) 2 SCR 392, 
Sushila Saw Mill v. State of Orissa & Ors. , ( 1995) 5 SCC 
615, Pratap Pharma (Pvt.) Ltd. & Anr. v. Union of India & 
Ors. , ( 1997) 5 SCC 87 and Dharam Dutt v. Union of India , 
(2004) 1 SCC 712. In Madhya Bharat Cotton Association Ltd. (supra) a 
large section of traders were completely prohibited from 
carrying on their normal trade in forward contacts. The 
restriction was held to be reasonable as cotton, being a 
commodity essential to the life of the community, and therefore 
such a total prohibition was held to be permissible. In Himmatbhai Narbheram Rao and Ors. (supra) trade in hides 
was completely prohibited and the owners of dead animals 
were required to compulsorily deposit carcasses in an appointed 
place without selling it. The constitutionality of such prohibition, 
though depriving the owner of his property, was upheld. The 
court also held that while striking a balance between rights of 
individuals and rights of citizenry as a whole the financial loss 
caused to individuals becomes insignificant if it serves the 
larger public interest. In Sushila Saw Mill (supra), the 
impugned enactment imposed a total ban on saw mill business 
or sawing operations within reserved or protected forests. The 
ban was held to be justified as it was in public interest to which 
the individual interest must yield. Similar view is taken in the 
other cases referred to hereinabove. In Krishna Kumar (supra), the Constitution Bench held 
that when the prohibition is only with respect to the exercise of 
the right referable only in a particular area of activity or relating 
to a particular matter, there was no total prohibition. In that 
case, the Constitution Bench was dealing with the case of 
Adatiyas operating in a market area. A certain field of activity 
was taken away from them, but they were yet allowed to 
function as Adatiyas. It was held that this amounts to a 
restriction on the exercise of writ petitioners' occupation as an 
Adatiya or a seller of grain but does not amount to a total ban. In the present case, we find the issue relates to a total 
prohibition imposed on the slaughter of cow and her progeny. 
The ban is total with regard to the slaughter of one particular 
class of cattle. The ban is not on the total activity of butchers 
(kasais); they are left free to slaughter cattle other than those 
specified in the Act. It is not that the writ petitioner-respondents 
survive only by slaughtering cow progeny. They can slaughter 
animals other than cow progeny and carry on their business 
activity. In so far as trade in hides, skins and other allied things 
(which are derived from the body of dead animal) are concerned, 
it is not necessary that the animal must be slaughtered to avail 
these things. The animal, whose slaughter has been prohibited, 
would die a natural death even otherwise and in that case their 
hides, skins and other parts of body would be available for trade 
and industrial activity based thereon. We hold that though it is permissible to place a total ban 
amounting to prohibition on any profession, occupation, trade or 
business subject to satisfying the test of being reasonable in the 
interest of the general public, yet, in the present case banning 
slaughter of cow progeny is not a prohibition but only a 
restriction. Question - 6 : Slaughter of cow progeny, if in public 
interest

As we have already indicated, the opinion formed by the 
Constitution Bench of this Court in Quareshi-I is that the 
restriction amounting to total prohibition on slaughter of bulls and 
bullocks was unreasonable and was not in public interest. We, 
therefore, proceed to examine the evidence available on record 
which would enable us to answer questions with regard to the 
'reasonability' of the imposed restriction qua 'public interest'. The facts contained in the Preamble and the Statement of 
Objects and Reasons in the impugned enactment highlight the 
following facts:- Preservation and protection of agricultural animals 
like bulls and bullocks needs emphasis. With the 
growing adoption of non-conventional energy 
sources like biogas plants, even waste material 
have come to assume considerable value. After 
the cattle cease to breed or are too old to work, 
they still continue to give dung for fuel, manure 
and biogas and, therefore, they cannot be said to 
be useless. Apart from the fact that we have to assume the above-
stated facts as to be correct, there is also voluminous evidence 
available on record to support the above said facts. We proceed 
to notice few such documents. Affidavits 

Shri J.S. Parikh, Deputy Secretary, Agriculture Cooperative 
and Rural Development, Department, State of Gujarat, filed three 
affidavits in the High Court of Gujarat in Special Civil Application 
No. 9991 of 1993. The first affidavit was filed on 20th October, 
1993, wherein the following facts are discernible and mentioned 
as under: Over and above agricultural work, 
bullocks are useful for other purposes 
also. They produce dung which is the 
best organic measure and is cheaper 
than chemical manure. It is also useful 
for production of bio-gas. (iv)	It is estimated that daily production of 
manure by bullocks is about 27,300 
tonnes and bio-gas production daily is 
about 13.60 cubic metres. It is also 
estimated that the production of bio-gas 
from bullock dung fulfil the daily 
requirement of 54.78 lakh persons of the 
State if whole dung production is utilized. 
At present, 1,91,467 bio-gas plants are 
in function in the State and about 3-4 
lakhs persons are using bio-gas in the 
State produced by these plants. (v)	The population of farmers in the State is 
31.45 lakhs. Out of which 7.37 lakhs are 
small farmers, 8 lakhs are marginal 
farmers, 3.05 lakhs are agricultural 
labourers and 13.03 lakhs are other 
farmers. The total land of Gujarat State 
is 196 lakh hectares and land under 
cultivation is 104.5 lakh hectares. There 
are 47,800 tractors by which 19.12 lakh 
hectares land is cultivated and the 
remaining 85.38 lakh hectares land is 
cultivated by using bullocks. It may be 
mentioned here that all the agricultural 
operations are not done using tractors. The bullocks are required for some of 
agricultural operations along with 
tractors. There are about 7,28,300 
bullock carts and there are about 
18,35,000 ploughs run by bullocks in the 
State. (vi)	The figure of slaughter of animals done 
in 38 recognised slaughter houses are as 
under: (iii)	the total cultivable land area of Gujarat 
State is about 124 lakh hectares. Considering that a pair of bullocks is 
required for ploughing 10 acres of land the 
bullock requirement for ploughing purpose 
alone is 5.481 million and approximately 
equal number is required for carting. According to the livestock census 1988 of 
Gujarat State, the availability of 
indigenous bullocks is around 2.84 
millions. Thus the availability of bullocks 
as a whole on percentage of requirement 
works out to be about 25 per cent. In this 
situation, the State has to preserve each 
single bull and bullock that is available to 
it; (iv)	it is estimated that bull or bullock at every 
stage of life supplies 3,500 kgs of dung 
and 2,000 litres of urine and whereas this 
quantity of dung can supply 5,000 cubic 
feet of biogas, 80 M.T. of organic fertilizer, 
the urine can supply 2,000 litres of 
pesticides and the use of these products in 
farming increases the yield very 
substantially. The value of above 
contribution can be placed at Rs.20,000/- per year to the owner; (v)	since production of various agricultural 
crops removes plant nutrients from the 
soil, they must be replenished with 
manures to maintain and improve fertility 
of soil. There are two types of manures 
which are (i) Organic manures, i.e. natural 
manures and (ii) Artificial or chemical 
fertilizer. Amongst the organic manures, 
farm yard manures is the most valuable 
organic manure applied to soil. It is the 
most commonly used organic manure in 
India. It consists of a mixture of cattle 
dung, the bedding used in the stable. Its 
crop increasing value has been recognized 
from time immemorial (Ref. Hand Book of 
Agriculture, 1987 by ICAR page 214); (vi)	the importance of organic manure as a 
source of humus and plant nutrients to 
increase the fertility level of soils has been 
well recognised. The organic matter 
content of cultivated soils of the tropics 
and sub-tropics is comparatively low due 
to high temperature and intense microbial 
activity. The crops remove annually large 
quantity of plant nutrients from soil. Moreover, Indian soils are poor in organic 
matter and in major plant nutrients. Therefore, soil humus has to be 
replenished through periodic addition of 
organic manure for maintaining soil 
productivity; (vii)	animals are the source of free availability 
of farmyard manure, which has all the 
three elements, i.e. Nitrogen, Phosphoric 
acid and Potash, needed in fertilizer and at 
the same time which preserve and enrich 
the fertility of the soil. In paucity of dung 
availability, the farmers have to depend 
upon chemical fertilizers. Investment in 
chemical fertilizers imposes heavy burden 
upon the economy. If there is availability 
of alternate source of organic manure from 
animals, it is required to be promoted; (viii)	the recent scenario of ultramodern 
technology of super ovulation, embryo 
transfer and cloning technique will be of 
very much use to propagate further even 
from the incapable or even old animals 
which are not capable of working or 
reproducing. These animals on a large 
scale can be used for research 
programmes as well as for production of 
non-conventional energy sources such as 
biogas and natural fertilizers. At present, 
there are 19,362 biogas plants installed in 
the State during 1995-97. On an average, 
each adult cattle produces 4.00 kg. of 
dung per day. Out of the total cattle 
strength of (1992 Census) 67,85,865, the 
estimated dung produced is 99,07,363 
tonnes; (ix)	India has 74% of rural population, and in 
Gujarat out of 4.13 crores of human 
population, there are 1.40 crores of 
workers which comprises of 47,04,000 
farmers and 32,31,000 workers are 
workers related to livestock and forestry. 
In Gujarat, there are 9.24 lakhs marginal 
farmers and 9.15 lakhs of small farmers, 
according to the 1991-92 census. Animals 
are reared in few numbers per family and 
the feed is obtained from the 
supplementary crop on fodder/agricultural 
by-products or from grazing in the gaucher 
land. In Gujarat 8.48 lakh hectares of land 
is available as permanent pasture and 
grazing land. An individual cattle-owner 
does not consider one or two bullocks as 
an extra burden for his family, even when 
it is incapable of work or production. Sometimes the unproductive animals are 
sent to Panjarapoles and Gosadans. In 
Gujarat, there are 335 Gaushalas and 174 
Panjarapoles which are run by non- governmental oranizations and trusts. Formerly farmers mostly kept few animals 
and, in fact, they are treated as part of 
their family and maintained till death. It 
cannot be treated to be a liability upon 
them or burden on the economy; (x)	butchers are doing their business since 
generations, but they are not doing only 
the slaughter of cow class of animals. They slaughter and trade the meat of other 
animals like buffaloes, sheep, goats, pig 
and even poultry. In Gujarat there are 
only 38 registered slaughter houses 
functioning under various 
Municipalities/Nagar Panchayats. Beef 
(meat of cattle) contributes only 1.3% of 
the total meat groups. Proportion of 
demand for beef is less in the context of 
demand for pig, mutton and poultry meat. Slaughtering of bulls and bullocks for the 
period between 1990-91 and 1993-94 was 
on an average 9,000; (xi)	number of bullocks have decreased in a 
decade from 30,70,339 to 28,93,227 as in 
1992. A statement showing the amount of 
dung production for the year 1983-84 to 
1996-97 and a statement showing the 
nature of economy of the State of Gujarat 
is annexed. The number of bullocks 
slaughtered per day is negligible compared 
to other animals, and the business and/or 
trade of slaughtering bullocks would not 
affect the business of butchers. By 
prohibiting slaughter of bullocks the 
economy is likely to be benefited. The three affidavits are supported by documents, 
statements or tables setting out statistics which we have no 
reason to disbelieve. Neither the High Court has expressed any 
doubt on the contents of the affidavit nor has the veracity of the 
affidavits and correctness of the facts stated therein been 
challenged by the learned counsel for the respondents before us. In this Court Shri D.P. Amin, Joint Director of Animal 
Husbandry, Gujarat State, has filed an affidavit. The salient facts 
stated therein are set out hereunder: agricultural operations like ploughing, sowing, 
hoeing, planking, carting, hauling, water lifting, 
grinding, etc.; Gujarat State has a very rich cattle 
population of Kankrej & Gir breed, of which 
Kankrej bullocks are very well known for its 
draft power called "Savai Chal"; (vi)	considering the utility of aged bullocks above 
16 years as draft power a detailed combined 
study was carried out by Department of Animal 
Husbandry and Gujarat Agricultural University 
(Veterinary Colleges S.K. Nagar & Anand). The 
experiments were carried out within the age 
group of 16 to 25 years. The study covered 
different age groups of 156 (78 pairs) bullocks 
above the age of 16 years. The aged bullocks 
i.e. above 16 years age generated 0.68 horse 
power draft output per bullock while the prime 
bullock generated 0.83 horse power per 
bullock during carting/hauling draft work in a 
summer with about more than 42?C temp. The 
study proves that 93% of aged bullock above 
16 years of age are still useful to farmers to 
perform light & medium draft works. The 
detailed report is on record; (vii)	by the end of year 2004-05 under the Dept. of 
Animal Husbandry, there are 14 Veterinary 
Polyclinics, 515 Vety. Dispensaries, 552 First 
Aid Vety. Centres and 795 Intensive Cattle 
Development Project Sub Centers. In all, 1876 
institutions were made functional to cater 
various health care activities to livestock 
population of State of Gujarat. About two 
crores of livestock and poultry were vaccinated 
against various diseases. As a result, the total 
reported out break of infectious diseases was 
brought down to around 106 as against 222 in 
1992-1993. This shows that State has created 
a healthy livestock and specifically the 
longevity of animals has been increased. This 
has also resulted into the increased milk 
production of the state, draft power and source 
of non-conventional energy in terms of 
increased quantity of dung and urine; (viii)	the value of dung is much more than even the 
famous "Kohinoor" diamond. An old bullock 
gives 5 tonnes of dung and 343 pounds of 
urine in a year which can help in the 
manufacture of 20 carts load of composed 
manure. This would be sufficient for manure 
need of 4 acres of land for crop production. The right to life is a fundamental right and it 
can be basically protected only with proper 
food and feeding and cheap and nutritious food 
grains required for feeding can be grown with 
the help of dung. Thus the most fundamental 
thing to the fundamental right of living for the 
human being is bovine dung. (Ref. Report of 
National Commission on Cattle, Vol.III, Page 
1063-1064); (ix)	the dung cake as well as meat of bullock are 
both commercial commodities. If one bullock 
is slaughtered for its meat (Slaughtering 
activity) can sustain the butchers trade for only 
a day. For the next day's trade another 
bullock is to be slaughtered. But if the bullock 
is not slaughtered, about 5000-6000 dung 
cakes can be made out of its dung per year, 
and by the sale of such dung cake one person 
can be sustained for the whole year. If a 
bullock survives even for five years after 
becoming otherwise useless it can provide 
employment to a person for five years whereas 
to a butcher, bullock can provide employment 
only for a day or two. (x)	Even utility of urine has a great role in the field 
of pharmaceuticals as well as in the 
manufacturing of pesticides. The Goseva Ayog, 
Govt. of Gujarat had commissioned study for 
"Testing insecticides properties of cow urine 
against various insect pests". The study was 
carried out by Dr. G.M. Patel, Principal 
Investigator, Department of Entomology, C.P. 
College of Agriculture, S.D. Agricultural 
University, Sardar Krishi Nagar, Gujarat. The 
study has established that insecticides 
formulations prepared using cow urine 
emerged as the most reliable treatment for 
their effectiveness against sucking pest of 
cotton. The conclusion of study is dung & 
urine of even aged bullocks are also useful and 
have proved major effect of role in the Indian 
economy; (xi) 	it is stated that availability of fodder is not a 
problem in the State or anywhere. During 
drought period deficit is compensated by 
grass-bank, silo and purchase of fodder from 
other States as last resources. The sugarcane 
tops, leaves of banana, baggase, wheat bhoosa 
and industrial byproducts etc. are available in 
plenty. A copy of the letter dated 8.3.2004 
indicting sufficient fodder for the year 2004, 
addressed to Deputy Commissioner, Animal 
Husbandry Government of India is annexed. Report on draughtability of bullocks above 16 years of age
On 20th June, 2001 the State of Gujarat filed I.A. No. 
2/2001 in Civil Appeal Nos. 4937-4940 of 1998, duly supported 
by an affidavit sworn by Shri D.U. Parmar, Deputy Secretary 
(Animal Husbandry) Agriculture and Cooperation Department, 
Government of Gujarat, annexing therewith a report on 
draughtability of aged bullocks above 16 years of age under field 
conditions. The study was conducted by the Gujarat Agricultural 
University Veterinary College, Anand and the Department of 
Animal Husbandry, Gujarat State, Ahmedabad. The study was 
planned with two objectives: Empirical research was carried out under field conditions in 
North Gujarat Region (described as Zone-I) and Saurashtra 
region (described as Zone-II). The average age of aged bullocks 
under the study was 18.75 years. The number of bullocks/pair 
used under the study were sufficient to draw sound conclusions 
from the study. The gist of the findings arrived at, is summed up 
as under: Summer being a stressful season, the aged bullocks exhibited 
distress symptoms earlier than the prime/young bullocks. 
However, they maintained their physiological responses within 
normal range and generated satisfactory draft power. The study report submitted its conclusions as under: With the report, the study group annexed 
album/photographs and cassettes prepared while carrying out the 
study. Several tables and statements setting out relevant 
statistics formed part of the report. A list of 16 authentic 
references originating from eminent authors on the subject under 
study which were referred to by the study group was appended to 
the report. This application (I.A. No. 2/2001) was allowed and the 
affidavit taken on record vide order dated 20.8.2001 passed by 
this Court. No response has been filed by any of the respondents 
controverting the facts stated in the affidavit and the 
accompanying report. We have no reason to doubt the 
correctness of the facts stated therein; more so, when it is 
supported by the affidavit of a responsible officer of the State 
Government. Tenth Five Year Plan (2002-2007) Documents
	In the report of the Working Group on Animal Husbandry 
and Dairy Farming, the Tenth Five Year Plan (2002-2007) dealing 
with 'the draught breed relevance and improvement', published 
by the Government of India, Planning Commission in January, 
2001, facts are stated in great detail pointing out the relevance 
of draught breeds and setting out options for improvement from 
the point of view of the Indian Economy. We extract and 
reproduce a few of the facts therefrom: Planned efforts should be made for improving 
the draught capacity and promoting greater 
uniformity in the type of the cattle population 
in the breeding tracts. There is need to 
intensify investigations to develop yardsticks 
for objective assessment of draught capacity of 
bullocks. 3.6.14	Supplementation of fund-flow 
for cattle and Buffalo development. 3.6.14.2	A number of organizations like 
NABARD, NDDB, NCDC etc. are also likely to 
be interested in funding activities relating to 
cattle and buffalo development in the form of 
term as loan provided timely return is ensured. 
Time has now come for exploring such avenues 
seriously at least on pilot basis in selected 
areas, where better prospects of recovery of 
cost of breeding inputs and services exists." Recognising the fact that the cow and its progeny has a 
significant role to play in the agricultural and rural economy of 
the country, the Government felt that it was necessary to 
formulate measures for their development in all possible ways. 
In view of the persistent demands for action to be taken to 
prevent their slaughter, the Government also felt and expressed 
the need to review the relevant laws of the land relating to 
protection, preservation, development and well-being of cattle 
and to take measures to secure the cattle wealth of India. Yet another document to which we are inclined to make a 
reference is Mid-Term Appraisal of 10th Five Year Plan (2002-
2007) released in June, 2005 by the Government of India 
(Planning Commission). Vide para 5.80 the report recommends 
that efforts should be made to increase the growth of bio-
pesticides production from 2.5 to 5 per cent over the next five 
years. According to the report, Organic farming is a way of farming 
which excludes the use of chemical fertilizers, insecticides, etc. 
and is primarily based on the principles of use of natural organic 
inputs and biological plant protection measures.
	Properly managed organic farming reduces or eliminates 
water pollution and helps conserve water and soil on the farm 
and thereby enhances sustainability and agro-biodiversity. Organic farming has become popular in many western 
countries. There are two major driving forces behind this 
phenomenon; growing global market for organic agricultural 
produce due to increased health consciousness; and the 
premium price of organic produce fetched by the producers. India has a comparative advantage over many other 
countries. The Appraisal Report acknowledged the commencement of 
the biogas programme in India since 1981-82. Some 35,24,000 
household plants have been installed against an assessed 
potential of 120,00,000 units. Biogas has traditionally been produced in India from cow 
dung (gobar gas). However, dung is not adequately and 
equitably available in villages. Technologies have now been 
developed for using tree-based organic substrates such as leaf 
litter, seed starch, seed cakes, vegetable wastes, kitchen wastes 
etc. for production of biogas. Besides cooking, biogas can also 
be used to produce electricity in dual fired diesel engines or in 
hundred per cent gas engines. Ministry of Non-conventional 
Energy Sources (MNES) is taking initiatives to integrate biogas 
programme in its Village Energy Security Program (VESP). Production of pesticides and biogas depend on the 
availability of cow-dung. National Commission on Cattle 
Vide its Resolution dated 2nd August, 2001, the 
Government of India established a National Commission on 
Cattle, comprising of 17 members. The Commission was given the follow terms of reference:- Thus the Commission is of the view that there should be a 
complete prohibition on slaughter of cow progeny. Importance of Bovine Dung

	The Report of the National Commission on Cattle, ibid, 
refers to an authority namely, Shri Vasu in several sub-
paragraphs of para 12. Shri Vasu has highlighted the unique 
and essential role of bovine and bovine dung in our economy and 
has pleaded that slaughter of our precious animals should be 
stopped. He has in extenso dealt with several uses of dung and 
its significance from the point of view of Indian society. Dung is 
a cheap and harmless fertilizer in absence whereof the farmers 
are forced to use costly and harmful chemical fertilizers. Dung 
also has medicinal value in Ayurved, the Indian system of 
medicines. Continuing Utility of Cattle : Even if the utility argument of 
the Quareshi's judgment is accepted, it cannot be accepted that 
bulls and bullocks become useless after the age of 16. It has to 
be said that bulls and bullocks are not useless to the society 
because till the end of their lives they yield excreta in the form 
of urine and dung which are both extremely useful for production 
of bio-gas and manure. Even after their death, they supply hide 
and other accessories. Therefore, to call them 'useless' is totally 
devoid of reality. If the expenditure on their maintenance is 
compared to the return which they give, at the most, it can be 
said that they become 'less useful'.(Report of the National 
Commission on Cattle, July 2002, Volume I, p. 279.) 

The Report of the National Commission on Cattle has 
analyzed the economic viability of cows after they stopped 
yielding milk and it also came to the conclusion that it shall not 
be correct to call such cows 'useless cattle' as they still continue 
to have a great deal of utility. Similar is the case with other cattle 
as well. This is because it is generally believed that 
milk is the only commodity obtained from 
cows, which is useful and can be sold in 
exchange of cash. This notion is totally 
wrong. Cow yields products other than milk, 
which are valuable and saleable. Thus the 
dung as well as the urine of cow can be put to 
use by owner himself or sold to persons or 
organizations to process them. The 
Commission noticed that there are a good 
number of organizations (goshalas) which 
keep the cows rescued while being carried to 
slaughter houses. Very few of such cows are 
milk yielding. Such organizations use the 
urine and dung produced by these cows to 
prepare Vermi-compost or any other form of 
bio manure and urine for preparing pest 
repellents. The money collected by the sale of 
such products is normally sufficient to allow 
maintenance of the cows. In some cases, the 
urine and dung is used to prepare the medical 
formulations also. The organizations, which 
are engaged in such activities, are making 
profits also. 37.2 Commission examined the balance sheet 
of some such organizations. The expenditure 
and income of one such organization is 
displayed here. In order to make accounts 
simple the amounts are calculated as average 
per cow per day. It is obvious that expenditure per cow is 
Rs. 15-25 cow/day. While the income from sale is Rs. 25-35 
cow-day. 37.3 These averages make it clear that the 
belief that cows which do not yield milk are 
unprofitable and burden for the owner is 
totally false. In fact it can be said that 
products of cow are sufficient to maintain 
them even without milk. The milk in such 
cases is only a byproduct. 37.4 It is obvious that all cow owners do not 
engage in productions of fertilizers or insect 
repellents. It can also be understood that 
such activity may not be feasible for owners 
of a single or a few cows. In such cases, the 
cow's urine and dung may be supplied to such 
organizations, which utilize these materials 
for producing finished products required for 
agricultural or medicinal purpose. Commission 
has noticed that some organizations which 
are engaged in production of agricultural and 
medical products from cow dung and urine do 
purchase raw materials from nearby cow 
owner at a price which is sufficient to 
maintain the cow." (Report of National 
Commission on Cattle, July 2002, Vol. II, 
pp.68-69)

 	A host of other documents have been filed originating from 
different sources such as Governmental or Semi-governmental, 
NGOs, individuals or group of individuals, who have carried out 
researches and concluded that world-over there is an awareness 
in favour of organic farming for which cattle are indispensable. 
However, we do not propose to refer to these documents as it 
would only add to the length of the judgment. We have, apart 
from the affidavits, mainly referred to the reports published by 
the Government of India, whose veracity cannot be doubted. We do not find any material brought on record on behalf 
of the respondents which could rebut, much less successfully, 
the correctness of the deductions flowing from the documented 
facts and statistics stated hereinabove. The utility of cow cannot be doubted at all. A total ban on 
cow slaughter has been upheld even in Quareshi-I. The 
controversy in the present case is confined to cow progeny. The 
important role that cow and her progeny play in the Indian 
Economy was acknowledged in Quareshi-I in the following 
words: On the basis of the available material, we are fully satisfied 
to hold that the ban on slaughter of cow progeny as imposed by 
the impugned enactment is in the interests of the general public 
within the meaning of clause (6) of Article 19 of the Constitution. Part - III

Stare Decisis 

	We have dealt with all the submissions and counter 
submissions made on behalf of the parties. What remains to be 
dealt with is the plea, forcefully urged, on behalf of the 
respondents that this Court should have regard to the principle 
of stare decisis and should not upturn the view taken in 
Quareshi-I which has held field ever since 1958 and has been 
followed in subsequent decisions, which we have already dealt 
with hereinabove. Stare decisis is a Latin phrase which means "to stand by 
decided cases; to uphold precedents; to maintain former 
adjudication". This principle is expressed in the maxim "stare 
decisis et non quieta movere" which means to stand by decisions 
and not to disturb what is settled. This was aptly put by Lord 
Coke in his classic English version as "Those things which have 
been so often adjudged ought to rest in peace". However, 
according to Justice Frankfurter, the doctrine of stare decisis is 
not "an imprisonment of reason" (Advanced Law Lexicon, P. 
Ramanatha Aiyer, 3rd Edition 2005, Volume 4, p. 4456). The 
underlying logic of the doctrine is to maintain consistency and 
avoid uncertainty. The guiding philosophy is that a view which 
has held the field for a long time should not be disturbed only 
because another view is possible. The trend of judicial opinion, in our view, is that stare 
decisis is not a dogmatic rule allergic to logic and reason; it is a 
flexible principle of law operating in the province of precedents 
providing room to collaborate with the demands of changing 
times dictated by social needs, State policy and judicial 
conscience. According to Professor Lloyd concepts are good servants 
but bad masters. Rules, which are originally designed to fit 
social needs, develop into concepts, which then proceed to take 
on a life of their own to the detriment of legal development. The 
resulting "jurisprudence of concepts" produces a slot-machine 
approach to law whereby new points posing questions of social 
policy are decided, not by reference to the underlying social 
situation, but by reference to the meaning and definition of the 
legal concepts involved. This formalistic a priori approach 
confines the law in a strait-jacket instead of permitting it to 
expand to meet the new needs and requirements of changing 
society (Salmond on Jurisprudence, Twelfth Edition, at p.187). 
In such cases Courts should examine not only the existing laws 
and legal concepts, but also the broader underlying issues of 
policy. In fact presently, judges are seen to be paying increasing 
attention to the possible effects of their decision one way or the 
other. Such an approach is to be welcomed, but it also warrants 
two comments. First, judicial inquiry into the general effects of a 
proposed decision tends itself to be of a fairly speculative nature. 
Secondly, too much regard for policy and too little for legal 
consistency may result in a confusing and illogical complex of 
contrary decisions. In such a situation it would be difficult to 
identify and respond to generalized and determinable social 
needs. While it is true that "the life of the law has not been 
logic, it has been experience" and that we should not wish it 
otherwise, nevertheless we should remember that "no system of 
law can be workable if it has not got logic at the root of it" These findings were recorded in the judgment delivered on 
23rd April, 1958. Independent India, having got rid of the 
shackles of foreign rule, was not even 11 years old then. Since 
then, the Indian economy has made much headway and gained 
a foothold internationally. Constitutional jurisprudence has 
indeed changed from what it was in 1958, as pointed out earlier. 
Our socio-economic scenario has progressed from being gloomy 
to a shining one, full of hopes and expectations and 
determinations for present and future. Our economy is steadily 
moving towards prosperity in a planned way through five year 
plans, nine of which have been accomplished and tenth is under 
way. We deal with the findings in Quareshi-I seriatim. 
Finding 1 : We cull out a few relevant findings and observations therefrom 
and set out in brief in the succeeding paragraphs. Food 
availability and stability were considered good measures of food 
security till the Seventies and the achievement of self-sufficiency 
was accorded high priority in the food policies. Though India 
was successful in achieving self-sufficiency by increasing its food 
production, it could not solve the problem of chronic household 
food insecurity. This necessitated a change in approach and as a 
result food energy intake at household level is now given 
prominence in assessing food security. India is one of the few 
countries which have experimented with a broad spectrum of 
programmes for improving food security. It has already made 
substantial progress in terms of overcoming transient food 
insecurity by giving priority to self-sufficiency in foodgrains, 
employment programmes, etc. The real problem, facing India, is 
not the availability of food, staple food and protein rich diet; the 
real problem is its unequal distribution. The real challenge 
comes from the slow growth of purchasing power of the people 
and lack of adequate employment opportunities. Another reason 
for lack of food and nutrient intake through cereal consumption 
is attributable to changes in consumer tastes and preferences 
towards superior food items as the incomes of the household 
increases. Empirical evidence tends to suggest a positive 
association between the calorie intake and nutritional status. 
The responsiveness is likely to be affected by the factors relating 
to health and environment. It is unclear as to how much of the 
malnutrition is due to an inadequate diet and how much due to 
the environment. India achieved near self-sufficiency in the availability of 
foodgrains by the mid-Seventies. The trend rate of foodgrain 
production improved 2.3 per cent during the 1960s and 1970s to 
2.9 per cent in the Eighties. The recent economic survey of 
2005 has also pointed out that the per capita availability of the 
milk has doubled since independence from 124 gms/day in the 
year 1950-51 to 229 gms/day in the year 2001-02. (Report of 
National Commission on Cattle. Vol. II, p. 84.) 

A complete reading of the research paper on Food Security 
and Nutrition (Chapter 3 in India Vision 2020) is a clear pointer 
to the fact that desirable diet and nutrition are not necessarily 
associated with non-vegetarian diet and that too originating from 
slaughtering cow progeny. Beef contributes only 1.3% of the 
total meat consumption pattern of the Indian society. 
Consequently a prohibition on the slaughter of cattle would not 
substantially affect the food consumption of the people. To 
quote (ibid. p.209) : "Even though the question of desirable diet 
from nutritional perspective is still controversial, we can make 
certain policy options to overcome the nutritional deficiencies. 
The most important problem to be attended is to increase the 
energy intake of the bottom 30 per cent of the expenditure 
class. The deficiency of energy intake of the bottom 30 per cent 
can be rectified by increasing agricultural productivity in rain fed 
areas, making available food at an affordable price through the 
Public distribution system (PDS), and other poverty alleviation 
programmes. The micro-nutrient deficiency can be cost-
effectively rectified by supplementary nutritional programmes to 
the children and the expectant and lactating mothers." 
	The main source of staple food which is consumed both by 
vegetarians and non-vegetarians is supplied by vegetables. 
Synthetic staple food has also been made available by scientific 
researches. It will, therefore, not be correct to say that poor will 
suffer in availing staple food and nutritional diet only because 
slaughter of cow progeny was prohibited. Finding 4 : Thereafter, Hon'ble Chief Justice has also reviewed all the cases 
bearing on the subject which can be enumerated as under: In Mohd. Hanif Qureshi 's case this Court upheld a total prohibition 
of slaughter of the cows of all ages and calf of buffalows (male and 
female) & she-buffaloes, breeding bulls and working bullocks, without 
prescribing any test of requirement as to their age. But so far as bull & 
bullocks are concerned when they ceased to have draughtability 
prohibition of their slaughter was not upheld in public interest. Hon'ble S.R. 
Das, CJ speaking for the Court exhaustively dealt with all the aspects which 
practically covers all the arguments which have been raised before us, 
especially, the utility of the cow-dung for manure as well as the cow urine 
for its chemical qualities like Nitrogen Phosphates and Potash. His Lordship 
recognized that this enactment was made in discharge of State's obligation 
under Art. 48 of the Constitution to preserve our livestock. His Lordship has discussed the question of reasonable restriction 
under Article 19 (6) and after considering all material placed before the 
Court, and adverting to social, religious, utility point of view in most 
exhaustive manner finally concluded thus : Therefore, their Lordships have summarized the whole concept of 
preservation of the cattle life in India with reservation that those cattle head 
which have lost their utility can be slaughtered specially with regard to 
draught cattle, bulls, bullocks & buffaloes so as to preserve the other 
milching cattle for their better breed and their better produce. Subsequently in another decision, in the case of Abdul Hakim vs. 
State of Bihar reported in AIR 1961 SC 448 the ban was imposed by the 
States of Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and U.P. which came up for consideration 
before this Court and in this context it was observed as under: Their Lordship also emphasized that the legislature is the best Judge 
of what is good for the community, by whose suffrage it comes into 
existence, the ultimate responsibility for determining the validity of the law 
must rest with the Court and the Court must not shirk that solemn duty cast 
on it by the Constitution. It was observed that the unanimous opinion of the experts is that 
after the age of 15, bulls, bullocks and buffaloes are no longer useful for 
breeding, draught and other purpose and whatever little use they may have 
then is greatly off-set by the economic disadvantage of feeding and 
maintaining unserviceable cattle. Section 3 of the Bihar Act in so far as it has increased the age limit 
to 25 in respect of bulls, bullocks and she-buffaloes, for the purpose of 
their slaughter imposes an unreasonable restriction on the fundamental right 
of the butchers to carry on their trade and profession. Moreover the 
restriction cannot be said to be in the interests of the general public, and to 
that extent it is void. Then again in the case of Mohd. Faruk vs. State of Madhya Pradesh 
and Ors. reported in 1969 (1) SCC 853, Constitution Bench was called 
upon to decide the validity of the notification issued by the Madhya Pradesh 
Government under Municipal Corporation Act . Earlier, a notification was 
issued by the Jabalpur Municipality permitting the slaughter of bulls and 
bullocks alongwith the other animals. Later on State Government issued 
notification cancelling the notification permitting the slaughter of bulls and 
bullocks. This came up for a challenge directly under Art. 32 of the 
constitution before this Court, that this restriction amounts to breach of Art. 19(1)(g) of the constitution. In that context, their Lordship observed: Then again in the case of Haji Usmanbhai Hasanbhai Qureshi & Ors. 
vs. State of Gujarat reported in (1986) 3 SCC 12, the insertion of Section 5 (1-A) (c) and (d) was made under the Bombay Animal Preservation 
(Gujarat amendment) act 1979) came up for consideration. By virtue of this 
insertion by the Gujarat State, it was laid down that there will be ban of 
slaughter of bulls, bullocks below the age of 16 years. It was contented that 
this prohibition is unreasonable and violative of Art. 19(1)(g). Their 
Lordships upheld the restriction under Art. 19(6) with reference to Art. 48 of the constitution. Their Lordships upheld the contention of the State of 
Gujarat that with the improvement of scientific methods cattle up to the 
age of 16 years are used for the purpose of breeding and other agricultural 
operation. But by this Act of 1994 this age restriction has now been totally 
taken away by the Act of 1994 (which is subject matter of challenge in these 
petitions). Then again the matter came up before this Court in the case of Hashmattullah vs. State of M.P. and Ors. reported in 1996 (4) SCC 391. 
This time the provisions of the M.P. Agricultural Cattle Preservation Act, 
1959 came up for consideration. This Act was amended by Amending Act of 1991 and a total ban on slaughter of bulls and bullocks came to be 
imposed. And this was challenged being violative of Art. 19 (1)(g) of the 
constitution. Their Lordships after reviewing all earlier cases on the subject and 
taking into consideration the uselessness of these bulls and bullocks after 
they have attained a particular age for agriculture operation like manure as 
well as bio-gas and ecology, observed in para 18 as under: And their Lordships declined to review the ratio laid down in Mohd. Hanif 
Qureshi 's case & reiterated the same. This is a survey of the judicial determination on the subject. And in 
the last case their Lordships frowned on unsuccessful attempt by the State to 
somehow nullify the ratio laid down in Mohd. Hanif Qureshi 's case and 
subsequent decisions following Qureshi 's case. But this time, the State of 
Gujarat has come up to seek the review of earlier decisions. Now I shall 
examine the material which has been placed by the State of Gujarat to 
justify the total prohibition of slaughter of bulls and bullocks. Learned counsel for the appellant has brought to our notice the 
affidavit filed by the State of Gujarat which has been reproduced by the 
Hon'ble Chief Justice on page 56 in his opinion onwards. Therefore, I 
need not reproduce the whole of the affidavit. Mr. J.S.Parikh, Deputy 
Secretary, Agricultural Cooperative and Rural Development Department of 
the State of Gujarat has in his affidavit stated that almost in 50% of the 
agricultural operation by tractor is not possible because of small holdings in 
the State of Gujarat. Therefore, for such small holdings the draught 
animals are best used for cultivation purposes. It was also stated that the 
total cultivated area of Gujarat State is about 124 lakh hectares and a pair 
of bullocks is required for ploughing 10 hectares of land. Therefore, 
5.481million and approximately equal number is required for carting of 
whole land. In accordance with livestock census, the Gujarat State has 
availability of indigenous bullocks around 2.84 millions that means that a 
State has only 25% of their requirement and it is also stated that each bull is 
required for this purpose. He has also stated that bull or bullocks at every 
stage of life supplies 3500 kg. of dung and 2000 ltrs. of urine and this 
quantity of dung can supply 5000 cubic feet of biogas, 80 M.T. of organic 
fertilizer and the urine can supply 2000 ltrs of pesticides and the use of it in 
farming increases the yield very substantially. That in recent advancement 
of technology use of biogas has become very useful source of energy and the 
biogas can be prepared out of the cow dung and other inputs. It was pointed 
out that there are 19362 biogas plants installed in the State during 1995-97. Similarly, an additional affidavit was filed by Mr. D.P. Amin, Joint 
Director of Animal Husbandry, Gujarat State. He has mentioned that the 
number of the slaughter houses have declined during the year 1982-83 to 
1996-97. The average number of animals slaughtered in regulated 
slaughter houses was 4,39,141. It is also stated that there is a reduction in 
slaughter of the bull and bullocks above the age of 16 years. Almost 50 
per cent of the land holdings are less than 2 hectares; tractor operation is not 
affordable to small farmers. For tractors operation one should have large 
holding of land. Such land holders are only around 10 per cent of the total 
land holders. Hence the farmers with small land holdings require bullocks 
for their agricultural operations and transport. There is reduction in 
slaughter of bulls and bullocks above the age of 16 years reported in the 
regulated slaughter houses of Gujarat State. As reported in the years from 
1982-83 to 1996-97, the slaughter of bulls and bullocks above the age of 16 
years was only 2.48% of the total animals of different categories slaughtered 
in the State. This percentage has gone down to the level of only 1.10% 
during last 8 years i.e. 1997-98 to 2004-05 which is very less significant to 
cause or affect the business of butcher communities. He has also stated that 
the bullock above the age of 16 years can generate 0.68 horse power 
draught output while the prime bullock generates 0.83 horse power per 
bullock during carting/hauling draught work. Considering the utility of 
bullocks above 16 years of age as draught power a detailed combined study 
was carried out by Department of Animal Husbandry and Gujarat 
Agricultural University (Veterinary Colleges S.K. Nagar & Anand). The 
study covered different age groups of 156 (78 pairs) bullocks above the age 
of 16 years age generated 0.68 horse power draught output per bullock while 
the prime bullock generated 0.83 horse power per bullock during 
carting/hauling draught work in a summer with about more than 42: F temp. 
The study proves that 93% of aged bullock above 16 years of age are still 
useful to farmers to perform light and medium draught works. The 
importance of organic manure as a source of humus and plant nutrients to 
increase the fertility level of soils has been well recognized. The organic 
matter content of cultivated soils of the tropics and sub-tropics is 
comparatively low due to high temperature and intense microbial activity. 
The crops remove annually large quantity of plant nutrients from soil. 
Moreover, Indian soils are poor in organic matter and in major plant 
nutrients. Therefore, soil humus has to be replenished through periodic 
addition of organic manure for maintaining soil productivity. It was 
mentioned that there is number of bio-gas plants operating in the State of 
Gujarat. Apart from these affidavits many more published documents have 
been placed on record which has been reproduced by the Hon'ble Chief 
Justice of India in his opinion. But all these are general datas which only 
provide the usefulness of cow dung for the purposes of manure as well as for 
biogas and likewise the urine of the cows for pesticides and ayurvedic 
purposes. But all those datas cannot change the reality that such an aged bull 
and bullocks produce huge quantity of the cow dung manure and urine 
which can alter a situation materially so as to reverse the earlier decisions of 
this court. Utility of the cow dung and urine was realized and appreciated in 
the earlier decision of this Court in Mohd. Hanif Qureshi's and Ors. vs State 
of Bihar and Ors. (AIR 1958 SC 731) The then Chief Justice has quoted 
from various scriptures emphasizing the importance of the cattle life. 
Therefore it cannot be said that the earlier decisions rendered by the 
Constitution Bench was oblivious of these facts. However, so far as the affidavits filed on behalf of State of Gujarat 
about the use of biogas and the usefulness of the draught animals has to be 
taken with pinch of salt, in both the affidavits it has been admitted that urine 
and the cow dung of the aged bull and bullocks beyond 16 years is reduced 
considerably and likewise their draughtability. Therefore, it is admitted that 
the bullocks which have crossed the age of 16 years their output for the 
urine, cow dung and draughtability is substantially reduced. Therefore it is 
explicit from their affidavits that the age of 16 years prescribed earlier was 
on a very reasonable basis after proper scientific study but de hors those 
scientific study the State Government brought this amendment removing the 
age limit for slaughtering of the bulls and bullocks and totally prohibited 
slaughtering of the same. This decision of the State Government does not 
advance the public interest. Another significant disclosure in both these affidavits is that 
slaughtering of these bulls and bullocks has considerably reduced in the year 
1997-98 to 2004-2005. The slaughtering of bulls and bullocks beyond the 
age of 16 years was only 2.48 % of the total animals of different categories 
slain in the State prior to this period. This percentage has gone down to the 
level of only 1.10 % during the last 8 years i.e. 1997-98 to 2004-2005. 
These details reveal that in fact the slaughtering of these bulls and bullocks 
beyond the age of 16 years constituted only 1.10% of the total slaughtering 
takes place in the State. If this is the ratio of the slaughtering, I fail to 
understand how this legislation can advance the cause of the public at the 
expense of the denial of Fundamental Right of this class of persons 
(butchers). In view of facts disclosed in the affidavit filed by the two senior 
officer of the State of Gujarat speaks volume that for small percentage of 
1.10% can the fundamental right of this class of persons should be sacrificed 
and earlier decisions be reversed. I fail to understand how it would advance 
the cause of the public at large so as to deprive the handful of persons of 
their rights to profession. On the basis of this material, I am of the opinion 
that the earlier decisions of this Court have not become irrelevant in the 
present context. The tall claim made by State looks attractive in a print but 
in reality it is not so. I fail to understand that how can an animal whose 
average age is said to be 12-16 years can at the age of 16 years reproduce 
the cow-dung or urine which can off set the requirement of the chemical 
fertilizer. In this connection reference be made to text book where average 
age is 12 years. It is a common experience that the use of the chemical 
fertilizer has increased all over the country and the first priority of the 
farmer is the chemical fertilizer, as a result of which the production in food 
grain in the country has gone up and today the country has become 
surplus. This is because of the use of the chemical fertilizer only and not 
the organic manure. It was observed in Mohd. Hanif 's case that India has 
a largest cattle head but a lower in the production of milk. It is only because 
of the scientific methods employed by veterinarian which has increased the 
milk production in the country not because of the poor breed of the bulls. 
It is common experience that aged bulls are not used for purposes of 
covering the cows for better quality of the breed. Only well-built young 
bulls are used for the purpose of improving the breeding and not the aged 
bulls. If the aged and weak bulls are allowed for mating purposes, the off-
spring will be of poor health and that will not be in the interest of the 
country.	So far as the use of biogas is concerned, that has also been 
substantially reduced after the advent of L.P.G.
Therefore in my opinion, in the background of this scenario, I do not 
think that it will be proper to reverse the view which has been held good for 
a long spell of time from 1958 to 1996. There is no material change in 
ground realities warranting reversal of earlier decisions. One of the other reasons which has been advanced for reversal of 
earlier judgments was that at the time when these earlier judgments were 
delivered Article 48(A) and 51(A) were not there and impact of both these 
Articles were not considered. It is true that Article 48(A) which was 
introduced by the 42nd Constitutional Amendment in 1976 with effect from 
3.1.1977 and Article 51(A) i.e. fundamental duties were also brought about 
by the same amendment. Though, these Articles were not in existence at 
that time but the effect of those Articles were indirectly considered in the Mohd. Hanif Qureshi 's case in 1958. It was mentioned that cow dung can be 
used for the purposes of manure as well as for the purpose of fuel that will 
be more echo-friendly. Similarly, in Mohd. Hanif Qureshi 's case their 
Lordships have quoted from the scriptures to show that we should have a 
proper consideration for our cattle wealth and in that context their Lordships 
quoted in para 22 which reads as under: (Translation by Ralph Griffith). Verse 29 of hymn 1 in Book X 
of Atharva Veda forbids cow slaughter in the following words: Hyman 10 in the same book is a rapturous glorification of the 
cow: P.V. Kane argues that in the times of the Rg.Veda only barren 
cows, if at all, were killed for sacrifice or meat and cows 
yielding milk were held to be not fit for being killed. It is only 
in this way, according to him that one can explain and reconcile 
the apparent conflict between the custom of killing cows for 
food and the high praise bestowed on the cow in Rg.Vedic 
times. It would appear that the protest raised against the 
slaughter of cows greatly increased in volume till the custom 
was totally abolished in a later age. The change of climate 
perhaps also make the use of beef as food unnecessary and even 
injurious to health. Gradually cows became indicative of the 
wealth of the owner. The Neolithic Aryans not having been 
acquainted with metals, there were no coins in current use in the 
earlier stages of their civilization, but as they were eminently a 
pastoral people almost every family possessed a sufficient 
number of cattle and some of them exchanged them for the 
necessaries of their life. The value of cattle (Pasu) was, 
therefore, very great with the early Rg.Vedic Aryans. The 
ancient Romans also used the word pecus or pecu (pasu) in the 
sense of wealth or money. The English words, "pecuniary" and 
"impecunious", are derived from the Latin root pecus or pecu, 
originally meaning cattle. The possession of cattle in those 
days denoted wealth and a man was considered rich or poor 
according to the large or small number of cattle that he owned. 
In the Ramayana king Janaka's wealth was described by 
reference to the large number of herds that he owned. It 
appears that the cow was gradually raised to the status of 
divinity. Kautilya's Arthasastra has a special chapter 
(Ch.XXIX) dealing with the "superintendent of cows" and the 
duties of the owner of cows are also referred to in Ch.XI of 
Hindu Law in its sources by Ganga Nath Jha. There can be no 
gainsaying the fact that the Hindus in general hold the cow in 
great reverence and the idea of the slaughter of cows for food is 
repugnant to their notions and this sentiment has in the past 
even led to communal riots. It is also a fact that after the recent 
partition of the country this agitation against the slaughter of 
cows has been further intensified. While we agree that the 
constitutional question before us cannot be decided on grounds 
of mere sentiment, however passionate it may be, we, 
nevertheless, think that it has to be taken into consideration, 
though only as one of many elements, in arriving at a judicial 
verdict as to the reasonableness of the restrictions." Therefore it cannot be said that the Judges were not conscious about 
the usefulness and the sanctity with which the entire cow and its progeny has 
been held in our country. Though Article 48(A) and 51(A) were not there, 
but their Lordships were indirectly conscious of the implication. Articles 
48(A) and 51(A) do not substantially change the ground realities which can 
persuade to change the views which have been held from 1958 to 1996. 
Reference was also made that for protection of top soil, the cow dung will be 
useful. No doubt the utility of the cow dung for protection of the top soil is 
necessary but one has to be pragmatic in its approach that whether the small 
yield of the cow dung and urine from aged bulls and bullocks can 
substantially change the top soil. In my opinion this argument was advanced 
only for the sake of argument but does not advance the case of the 
petitioners/appellants to reverse the decision of the earlier Benches which 
had stood the test of time. In this connection, it will be relevant to refer the principle of stare 
decisis. The expression of 'stare decisis' is a Latin phrase which means "to 
stand by decided cases; to uphold precedents; to maintain former 
adjudications". It is true that law is a dynamic concept and it should change 
with the time. But at the same time it shall not be so fickle that it changes 
with change of guard. If the ground realities have not changed and it has not 
become irrelevant with the time then it should not be reviewed lightly. I 
have discussed above the reasons which have been given by the State of 
Gujarat for reconsideration of the earlier decisions on the subject, in my 
humble opinion the justification so pleaded is not sufficient to change or 
review the decision of the Constitution Bench by the present Bench of seven 
Judges. The principle of stare decisis is based on a public policy. This policy 
is based on the assumption that certainty, predictability and stability in the 
law are the major objectives of the legal system; i.e. that parties should be 
able to regulate their conduct and enter into relationships with reasonable 
assurance of the governing rules of law. If the courts start changing their 
views frequently then there will be a lack of certainty in the law and it is not 
good for the health of the nation. Craies on Statue Law, 7th Edition, it was observed that: In 1919 Lord Buckmaster enunciated the principles on which 
the rule of stare decisis is based. "Firstly, the construction of a 
statute of doubtful meaning once laid down and accepted for a 
long period of time ought not to be altered unless your 
Lordships could say positively that it was wrong and productive 
of inconvenience. Secondly, that the decisions upon which title 
to property depends or which by establishing principles of 
construction otherwise form the basis of contracts ought to 
receive the same protection. Thirdly, decisions affecting the 
general conduct of affairs, so that their alteration would mean 
that taxes had been unlawfully imposed or exemption 
unlawfully obtained, payments needlessly made or the position 
of the public materially affected, ought in the same way to 
continue." Earlier, Lord Westbury had thus stated the rule, "We must bow 
to the uniform interpretation which has been put upon the 
statute of Elizabeth and must not attempt to disturb the 
exposition it has received . If we find a uniform 
interpretation of a statue upon a question materially affecting 
property, and perpetually recurring, and which has been 
adhered to without interruption, it would be impossible for us to 
introduce the precedent of disregarding that interpretation. 
Disagreeing with it would thereby be shaking rights and titles 
which have been founded through so many years upon the 
conviction that that interpretation is the legal and proper one 
and is one which will not be departed from." The rule of stare decisis was followed in Associated 
Newspapers Ltd. vs City of London Corporation, where the 
House of Lords declined to overrule two old cases which 
established the non-ratability of certain property in the City of 
London on the construction of an Act of 1767, and in Morgan 
vs Fear, where the House of Lords refused to disturb a 
construction of the Prescription Act 1832, which had been 
settled and acted on for forty-six years. In Cohen vs Bayley-
Worthington which turned on the construction of the Fines and 
Recoveries Act, 1833, the House of Lords refused to put on that 
Act a new construction, as property had been settled or 
otherwise dealt with for a long period of time on the faith of the 
older cases, and in Close vs Steel Co. of Wales Ltd. Lord 
Morton of Henryton said: "I have always understood that when 
this House clearly expresses a view upon the construction of an 
Act of Parliament and bases its decision on that view, the Act 
must bear that construction unless and until Parliament alters 
the Act." Therefore one of the hallmarks of the law is certainty predictability 
and stability unless the ground realty has completely changed. In the present 
case, as discussed above, in my opinion the ground reality has not changed 
and the law laid down by this court holds good and relevant. Some 
advancement in technology and more and more use of the cow dung and 
urine is not such a substantial factor to change the ground realities so as to 
totally done away with the slaughtering of the aged bulls and bullocks. It is 
true my Lord the Chief Justice has rightly observed that principle of stare 
decisis is not a dogmatic rule allergic to logic and reason; it is a flexible 
principle of law operating in the province of precedents providing room to 
collaborate with the demands of changing times dictated by social needs, 
State policy and judicial conscience. There is no quarrel to this proposition, 
but the only question is whether the earlier decisions are not logical or they 
have become unreasonable with the passage of time. In my humble opinion, 
those decisions still hold good in the present context also. Therefore, I do 
not think that there are compelling reasons for reversal of the earlier 
decisions either on the basis of advancement of technology or reason, or 
logic, or economic consideration. Therefore, in my humble opinion, there is 
no need to reverse the earlier decisions. An argument was raised with regard to role of objects and reasons 
preceding the enactment. There is no two opinion that they are useful and 
for purposes of interpretation of the provisions whenever its validity is 
challenged. This aspect has been dealt with by the Hon'ble Chief Justice 
and I do not wish to add anything more to it. Likewise, the Hon'ble Chief Justice has dealt in detail the relation of 
Fundamental Rights with Directive Principles. His Lordship has very 
exhaustively dealt with all the cases bearing on the subject prior and after 
decision in Keshwanand Bharti's case. The court should guard zealously 
Fundamental Rights guaranteed to the citizens of the society, but at the same 
time strike a balance between the Fundamental Rights and the larger 
interests of the society. But when such right clashes with the larger interest 
of the country it must yield to the latter. Therefore, wherever any enactment 
is made for advancement of Directive Principles and it runs counter to the 
Fundamental Rights an attempt should be made to harmonise the same if it 
promotes larger public interest. Therefore, as a result of above discussion, I am of the view that the 
view taken by the Division Bench of the Gujarat High Court is correct and 
there is no justification for reversing the view taken by the earlier 
Constitution Bench decision of this Court. All appeals are dismissed. No 
order as to costs.