(PER : SMT. VIBHA KANKANWADI, J.)

1 Present application has been filed under Section 482 of the Code

of Criminal Procedure, 1973 for quashing the Charge Sheet No.36/2024 i.e.

the proceedings in Special Case No.16/2024 pending before learned

Additional Sessions Judge, Udgir, Tq. Udgir, Dist. Latur, arising out of First

Information Report vide Crime No.697/2023 dated 22.12.2023 registered

with Rural Police Station, Udgir, for the offence punishable under Section 306 read with Section 34 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860, under Sections 66(C) and 66(E) of the Information Technology Act, 2000 and under Section 3(2)

(5) of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of

Atrocities) Act, 1989. 2 Heard learned Advocate Mr. G.D. Kale for applicants and learned

APP Mrs. P.R. Bharaswadkar for respondent No.1. Learned Advocate for

respondent No.2 remained absent. 3 Learned Advocate appearing for applicants has taken us through

the entire charge sheet including First Information Report. Respondent No.2

is mother of deceased Vikram Rajendra Balande and present applicants are

stated to be the friends or friends' friends. Learned Advocate for applicants

submits that it is stated that deceased was suffering from some physical
 4 28_Cri.Appln_1789_2024

problem and he used to search for some videos on YouTube. Some of the

applicants came to know about the same and they had hacked the WhatsApp

account, Google account, Facebook account and YouTube account of deceased

and they were blackmailing him. It was alleged that applicant No.2 Shailesh

is the leader of applicants and they were mentally harassing deceased

Vikram, however, First Information Report is silent since when the

harassment was going on. It is only stated that since few days prior to First

Information Report when informant found that Vikram was under mental

tension, then she asked as to what has happened ? He then told her that

some friends were giving mental harassment. He appears to have told that

applicants were teasing him on the point of his physical problem (which

appears to be on sexual point). There was operation of the second son of

informant on 19.11.2023 and, therefore, he was taken by the other relatives

i.e. brother-in-law of informant and her elder sister to Hyderabad in Yashoda

Hospital. On the next day i.e. around 10.00 a.m. on 20.11.2023 nephew of

respondent No.2 gave call to brother-in-law of informant stating that

something has happened to Vikram and, therefore, they should go to the

village. Immediately informant and her elder sister reached Udgir around

8.30 p.m., whereupon it was told to informant that they will have to go to

Government Hospital, Udgir. When already people had gathered there,

informant realized that some untoward incident has happened and then it
 5 28_Cri.Appln_1789_2024

was disclosed to her that Vikram has committed suicide in the house. It is

then stated that Vikram had left two chits on the sofa in the house which was

written on 19.11.2023, in which names of nine persons were disclosed

stating that by hacking his accounts they had taken the personal information

of Vikram and blackmailing him. 4 The applicants are not disputing that Vikram died due to

hanging i.e. he committed suicide, but they are disputing that they had

abetted the commission of suicide. It appears that the chits have been sent

for Handwriting Expert's opinion and even if we consider the contents of

chits were written by deceased Vikram; yet the contents do not show when

the Facebook account or Google account or other accounts of deceased

Vikram were hacked. The entire charge sheet would show that absolutely no

scientific investigation in that respect has been carried out, so as to invoke

the ingredients of offences under the Information Technology Act . In the

alleged suicide note it is then stated that Vikram had suspicion that applicant

No.2 was the mastermind and problem was not going to be solved by giving

money. The said things were going on since last many days. He had some

health issue like weakness and for that purpose he used to search for

information on Google. The applicants alleged to have misused the

information and defamed him and, therefore, he has stated that he is
 6 28_Cri.Appln_1789_2024

committing suicide. In respect of applicant No.7 he has used abusive

language and then says that his reports were normal and he was going to be

cleared from health issue. He says that he came to know about the plan of

applicants to make search of history of his search for Google and Facebook,

but before that he has committed suicide. The second chit was addressed to

younger brother that he should take care of himself and their sister. The

charge sheet also contains message given on WhatsApp to husband of sister

of deceased, wherein Vikram had informed that he would be committing

suicide and he has stated that sister should take revenge. It appears that

police have taken search of the history of accounts of deceased, but that is

not sufficient to prove that account was hacked. There appears to be some

financial transactions through electronic mode between deceased and

applicants, but if we consider the amount, then it can be said to be friendly

advances. The amount that has been shared is not even more than

Rs.10,000/- at a single transaction. Amounts like 500, 700 and 300 have

been repeatedly given. The documents showing the WhatsApp chat with one

Ramdas Rathod would show that the deceased had asked him as to how

much amount is due towards him (Paise kiti ahet tuze Ramdas). But the

further conversation has no link and it was asked that the amount should be

given on PhonePe. Possibility of hand loan cannot be ruled out. Further, it

appears that there is money transaction between applicant No.7 and
 7 28_Cri.Appln_1789_2024

deceased, but that does not mean that it was the outcome of blackmailing

and why she should then blackmail the deceased. None of the applicants had

any reason to think that deceased should commit suicide. Therefore, even

prima facie the ingredients of offence are not getting attracted. Applicant

No.8 himself is also a member of Scheduled Caste and, therefore, the

provisions of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of

Atrocities) Act will not get attracted against him and for even others caste of

deceased what was not an issue. 5 Per contra, learned APP has strongly opposed the application.

He submitted that it appears that deceased had some sexual problem and he

was making search on the point on the social platform. The medical reports

of deceased appeared to be normal. But it appears that present applicants

had hacked the social media accounts of deceased and from the history of his

search they used to blackmail him. There is evidence regarding transfer of

money by deceased to some of the applicants and most importantly the

deceased has left the suicide note, in which clearly he has blamed present

applicants. The statements of witnesses, especially the sister of deceased,

wherein she has stated that on 19.11.2023 Vikram had given her call from

the mobile phone of brother Suraj and had informed as to how present

applicants used to tease him and give mental stress to him. She has stated
 8 28_Cri.Appln_1789_2024

that he was on talking terms with applicant No.7 and she knew about

physical problem of Vikram. But she was then demanding money from

deceased. Vikram has then given amount on Phonepe account of her

husband Arvind and brother-in-law Sachin. Applicant No.7 was blackmailing

him. He had told that applicant No.8 Amol had created Facebook account

and Instagram account of deceased Vikram in his mobile and for that purpose

he had the E-mail ID of deceased. He has then as it appears that had given

ID of deceased to others and also the password, whereupon they were

hacking the mobile of deceased and watching the history of searches made by

Vikram. Upon the said history they used to then teasing him. Even brother

Suraj has also given the same story and, therefore, this is supporting to

suicide note. Deceased appears to have consulted Dr. Rajesh Rathi of Apex

Clinic, who is Psychiatry, Sexologist and De-addiction Specialist from Nagpur.

The bank account details have also been taken and, therefore, there is

sufficient evidence to take cognizance of offence and, therefore, this is not a

fit case where this Court should interfere. 6 Before turning to the facts of the case, we would like to consider

the legal position. In recent decision in Abhinav Mohan Delkar vs. the State

of Maharashtra and others , Criminal Appeal Nos.2177-2185 of 2024, decided

on 18th August 2025, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has considered many
 9 28_Cri.Appln_1789_2024

leading cases, i.e., the decision in Ude Singh and Others. vs. State of Haryana

[(2019) 17 SCC 301], Pawan Kumar vs. State of Himachal Pradesh [( 2017)

7 SCC 78], Amalendu Pal vs. State of West Bengal [( 2010) 1 SCC 707], S.S.

Chheena vs. Vijay Kumar Mahajan [(2010) 12 SCC 190], Chitresh Kumar

Chopra vs. State (NCT Of Delhi) [(2009) 16 SCC 605], Madan Mohan Singh

vs. State of Gujarat [(2010) 8 SCC 628], Prakash and others vs. State of

Maharashtra and another [2024 SCC OnLine 3835], State of West Bengal vs.

Orilal Jaiswal [(1994) 1 SCC 73]. After taking into consideration all these

cases, the Hon'ble Supreme Court, in Abhinav Mohan Delkar (supra),

observed thus : Thus, taking note of the legal requirements now we will turn

towards facts of the case. Most of the facts are already forming part of

submissions. We do not want to repeat them, unless we feel that the

repetition is necessary. 7 The first and the foremost fact that is required to be noted is that

the applicants are not from the same age group or there is less possibility that

they were the classmates. How they were knowing each other has not been

explained either in First Information Report or in statements of witnesses. In

order to call a person as a friend they should know each other. Since when

these applicants and deceased Vikram knowing each other has also not been

stated. If at all Vikram was suffering from any physical problem, then

whether instead of sharing that with mother or brother or any other family

member, whether he would share it with the friends and, that too, especially

applicant No.7 Mamta, who is a married lady. The said physical problem is

stated to be related to sexual act. Of course, there is a certificate of Dr.

Rajesh Rathi dated 07.03.2024 stating that deceased Vikram had visited his

Clinic on 03.02.2022 for problem of erectile dysfunction (ed) and the

medical information regarding this is inability to get or maintain and erection
 12 28_Cri.Appln_1789_2024

long enough to have sexual intercourse. The certificate also states that after

that visit i.e. 03.02.2022 Vikram had not visited the said Clinic and the

treatment that was prescribed was for one month. So whatever appears to be

the treatment or problem was of the year 2022 and the suicide has been

committed on 19.11.2023. So there appears to be no proximity as such,

taking into consideration these dates. Now, there is not a single document on

record showing the scientific investigation to show that how the mobile of

deceased was hacked. It appears that Investigating Officer has not taken help

of a cyber expert. His statement under Section 161 of the Code of Criminal

Procedure has not been recorded. In the statement of sister taken on

29.12.2023 i.e. after a period of about seven days of First Information Report

she has stated about the role played by applicant No.8 Amol regarding

helping deceased in opening deceased's account on Instagram and Facebook.

Now, there is no document to show that when this Instagram and Facebook

account was created. Hacking is possible only thereafter and not otherwise.

Now, it is her statement that deceased had told her that accused Amol has

given the ID and password to other applicants and then there used to be

hacking of deceased's mobile by all of them. The questions are again - As to

whether they were watching the search history of deceased at the same time

and from whose mobile number or they were individually hacking it from

different mobile numbers ? When was the last hacking that was done ? 13 28_Cri.Appln_1789_2024

Since when the applicants were allegedly blackmailing the deceased ? The

answer of these questions is not in the entire charge sheet. It is hard to

believe that for the said physical problem of erectile dysfunction (ed) the

deceased would have told it to applicant No.7, the married lady. Again, at

the cost of repetition, we would say that since when applicant No.7 was

knowing deceased is not coming forward. There is absolutely no evidence

regarding transfer of any amount directly to her but then it is stated that

amount was given to her husband and brother-in-law. If that amount was

demanded as blackmailing, then why it was not told to the family members.

He had opportunity to lodge a report regarding the blackmail. Small amount

like 500, 300 or even 3000 cannot be said to be the blackmailing amount

unless a substantial amount is then shown. Further, the Investigating Officer

as well as now prosecution are not coming with a case that, that transfer of

amount was an extortion and necessary sections have not been added. They

are trying to project that since there was blackmailing and transfer of money,

the deceased was forced to commit suicide. But, as aforesaid, in order to

prove the abetment the active part in respect of each of the accused persons

is necessary and there has to be a proximity. If such acts were going on since

long and there is no evidence regarding the last transaction or last incident of

encountering of all the applicants and deceased, it will not amount to an

abetment as contemplated under Section 107 as well as Section 306 of the
 14 28_Cri.Appln_1789_2024 Indian Penal Code . 8 We take the alleged suicide note as it is and at this stage presume

that it has been left by deceased on 19.11.2023; yet it lacks all those details.

In the suicide note he has not stated about the role of applicant No.8 Amol as

stated by sister in her statement under Section 161 of the Code of Criminal

Procedure. Rather in the suicide note he makes accused No.2 as mastermind

and he has used the word 'hang' (ought to have been 'hacked'). Hacking of

the mobile is a different concept, which will not include knowledge about

password and ID. Therefore, at one breath the prosecution intends to state

that Amol had knowledge about password and ID of deceased, who had then

allegedly shared it to the other accused persons. But then in the suicide note

where it is stated to be hacked, then question of sharing or knowledge about

password and ID will not arise. As regards applicant No.7, he has tried to

give a different colour about his relationship with her and if that was the

issue, then question of hacking by her together with other applicants

including her own husband also will not arise. He has also used the word

that he has been defamed, because of his health problem. But, neither First

Information Report nor statements of brother, sister gives an indication that

there was a defamation of deceased on that count. The defamation has to be

made public and when even the family members were not knowing as to
 15 28_Cri.Appln_1789_2024

what has been alleged against the deceased's health by these applicants, it

cannot amount to defamation at all. Thus, perusal of entire material

including First Information Report in charge sheet would show that the

ingredients of offence were not getting attracted even prima facie and under

such circumstance, it would be an abuse of process of law if the applicants

are asked to face the trial. This is a fit case where the powers under Section

482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure should be exercised. Hence, following

order. No.16/2024 pending before learned Additional Sessions Judge, Udgir, Tq.

Udgir, Dist. Latur, arising out of First Information Report vide Crime

No.697/2023 dated 22.12.2023 registered with Rural Police Station, Udgir,

for the offence punishable under Section 306 read with Section 34 of the

Indian Penal Code, 1860, under Sections 66(C) and 66(E) of the Information

Technology Act, 2000 and under Section 3(2)(5) of the Scheduled Castes and

the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, stands quashed

and set aside as against applicants viz. 1) Prasad Kalidas More, 2) Shailesh
 16 28_Cri.Appln_1789_2024

Shivshankar Marwade, 3) Kaustubh Venkatrao Pawar, 4) Abhishek Shrikant

Satale, 5) Arvind Gajanan Kholgadage, 6) Sachin Gajanan Kholgadage, 7)

Mamta w/o Arvind Kholgadage, 8) Amol Ashok Kachare and Ranveer

Ramchandra Natkare. ( SUSHIL M. GHODESWAR, J. ) ( SMT. VIBHA KANKANWADI, J. )

agd