BEFORE
 HON'BLE THE CHIEF JUSTICE MR. KEMPAIAH SOMASHEKAR
 HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE A. GUNESHWAR SHARMA

 (ORDER)

 (K. SOMASHEKAR, C.J.)

 16.06.2025. [1] This PIL has been initiated by the petitioner keeping in view Article 226 of the Constitution of India, and whereby in this writ petition

 seeking for intervention and also seeking some sort of reliefs as follows: [2] Heard the learned counsel for the petitioner, Mr. L. Shyam

and also learned AG, Lenin Hijam, assisted by Mr. I. Amri for the State in

this matter. [3] Whereas, the learned counsel for the petitioner in this matter

submitted that the petitioner is an association namely Meeyam Amata

Oina Punsinba Lup (MAPUL) being registered No. 494/ID of 1988(M)

dated 04-08-1988 represented by its secretary namely Kshetrimayum

Ratan Meitei, aged about 45 years, but the said Association has been

established with the main objective to promote the persons who are

socially or economically disability, economically disadvantageous position

and for the protection of the environment. It is stated that the petitioner

has no personal interest in the litigation and the petition is not guided by

self-gain or for gain for any other persons/ institutions/ body and there is

no motive other than of Public Interest for filing the Public Interest

Litigation petition. In support of all his contentions, the petitioner has

facilitated the documents as Annexures A/1, A/2, A/3, A/4, A/5 and A/6.

[4] In para 12 of this Public Interest Litigation and wherein it has

taken contention that it is also important to mention that the purpose of 3 the present Rejuvenation Project is in the interest of the environment and

to overcome the damage already caused to the environment due to the

deposition of clays and muds coming from the Langol Hills which are

deposited in the Waterbody in every rainy season, the same has been

stated in para 12. [5] Whereas in para 13, it stated as that regarding the flood in

the rainy season the entire rain water are required to be discharged

through the water canal from Lamphelpat through Samushang and

discharged to the Nambul River, the same has been stated in para 13.

[6] Whereas in para 14, it is indicated that another aspect which

required the Rejuvenation of Lamphelpat waterbody are erosion takes

place at various places due to more velocity during the rainy season

whereas in the prayer column of this Public Interest Litigation indicating

that to direct the respondent authority more particularly Commissioner,

Water Resource Department Government of Manipur for causing

remedial action under section 24 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005

preventing against the flash flood due to the dumping of large quantity of

muds and clays in and around Lamphelpat waterbody, deposited at the

time of the construction of the work rejuvenation of Lamphalpat waterbody

to alleviate urban flooding providing sustainable water resources for

Imphal city and promoting Eco-Tourism. Keeping in view all the aforesaid

prayers as sought for by the petitioner in the nature of Public Interest

Litigation are concerned, it is deemed appropriate to refer the Site

Inspection Report, wherein the said Site Inspection Report consisting of 4 paras No. 1(1.1,1.2); 2(2.1,2.2,2.3, 2.4. 2.5,2.6), 3(3.1,3.2,3.3,3.4); 4; 5

and 6 inclusive of other vital documents with the signatures of the

concerned officials have been produced before the court by the

respondents for perusal. The Site Inspection Report is reproduced as

under: The State of Manipur & Ors) filed by Meeyam Amata Oina Punsiba Lup (MAPUL),
 challenging the illegal executive of the construction of work related to Lamphelpat
 Waterbody Rejuvenation Project. The Hon'ble High Court of Manipur directed The
 Chief Engineer, Water Resources Department, Manipur, to inspect the subject
 matter of execution of work and file a report before the Hon'ble Court regarding
 the allegation made in the representation dated 22-03-2025.
 1.2 In compliance to the Hon'ble High Court directions, the Water Resources
 Department vide order No. 8, dated 30-04-2025 (Copy enclosed as Annexure-I),
 have conducted an extensive site inspection of the works being executed under
 Lamphelpat Waterbody Project on 02-05-2025. 2. Details of the dredging work being executed under the project
 2.1 The Lamphelpat waterbody project has been framed with the main objective to
 mitigate flood through Integrated Flood Risk Management and at the same time to
 address the water security of Imphal city. One of the major activities under the
 project is the development of waterbody for an area of around 300 acres. The work
 involves dredging of the area at the same time pumping the dredge earth at the
 designated location for settlement. 2.2 For the execution of these work, work contract was awarded to the frim M/s Reach
 Dredging Ltd vide work order no. EE/EMD/WB-WO/2023-24 dated 09-11-2023.
 The contract period is 2 years. 2.3 The dredging of work is being executed by using a specialized equipment i.e., Cutter
 Suction Dredging Machine (CSD 450). The equipment through its cutter head
 loosens the soil, suck it up in the form of slurry and transport it to the designated 5 disposal site via pipelines. The execution of the dredging work has the following
 stages: 2.6 For effective monitoring of the project execution, a third party project monitoring
 & Supervision Consultant, WAPCOS Ltd, a PSU owned by Ministry of Jal Shakti is
 being deployed by Water Resources Department under the Project. 3. Observation and Finding during the site visit 6 3.1 Officials of Water Resources Department Headed by Chief Engineer along with
 official of WAPCOS Pvt. Lt. and M/s Reach Dredging Ltd visited the project site on
 02-05-2025. 3.2 The team inspected the following 12 (twelve) numbers of disposal dyke sites where
 ongoing disposal works are in progress. 3.3 The following observations were recorded during the site visit. (a) The firm have constructed all peripheral drain network as shown in the map
 enclosed as Annexure-B. (b) All the disposal area dykes have been constructed with adequate width and
 height, protection of dykes with bamboo mats and geo - HDPE geo-membrane
 sheet are found in most of the dykes. (Enclosed photo no.1/1,1/2) (c) Proper excess drain outlets are provided for all the dykes. (Enclosed photo no. 2) 7 (d) Peripheral drains constructed around the dyke area were checked. Re-
 sectioning and cleaning of the drains have been completed by the firm.
 (Enclosed photo no.3) (e) Peripheral drains in the Northern side of dyke 3 inside the NIT Campus are
 constructed and maintained at appropriate depth, as of now these drain carries
 all the runoff water from the surrounding local population situated in the
 Northern side of the dyke. (Enclosed photo no.4/1,4/2,4/3,4/4) (f) The Chief Engineer (WRD) have instructed the firm to continue monitoring of
 the drains for any blockage during the monsoon season so that immediate
 remedial measures can be addressed. 3.4 During the site visit all the water, soil & ambient air & noise testing report collected
 for the work were checked. As per the reports the following observation are
 concluded. (a) Testing were conducted through 3 (three) different ISO certified Agencies viz., a) SRIC, Manipur Technical University, Manipur; Prodcontrol (India) Private
 Limited, Kolkata; Envirocon, Assam (copy enclosed as Annexure C). (b) As per testing report, there is no case of soil contamination. (c) The Turbidity of the soil is on the higher side; this is expected as the dredging
 work is in progress and it involves cutting of earth. 4. Further, provision for pumping of flood water from the Lamphel pat water body to
 the Nambul River through Shamushang Nalla during high flood season is currently
 in active at shamushang station. 5. This year populations of migratory birds have increased as recorded by official
 teams of forest and wildlife department who have visited the Lamphel pat water body
 area for the census of the birds. The reason has been credited due to the increase of
 water spread area of Lamphelpat waterbody as a result of the project and the report
 was published in national newspaper. (copy enclosed as Annexure- D/1,D/2). 6. Disposal Dyke 1, 4, 5, 11, 12 & 14 are already solidified and cattle grazing inside
 the filled up area was visible during the site visit (Enclosed photo no. 5/1,5/2).

[7] Therefore, keeping in view the aforesaid report in detail as

submitted by the authorities in this Public Interest Litigation are

concerned, it is deemed appropriate to refer to the Article 14 of the

Constitution of India i.e. equality before law. The concept of equality is a 8 positive concept. Court can command the State to give equal treatment to

similarly situated persons but cannot issue a mandate that the State

should commit illegality or pass wrong order because in another case

such an illegality has been committed or wrong order has been passed. Article 14 cannot be invoked for perpetuating irregularities or illegalities,

the same has been in detail rendered in the case of Usha Mehta v.

Government of Andhra Pradesh , 2012. [8] Whereas Article 21 of the Constitution of India, it revealed as

protection of life and personal liberty. No person shall be deprived of his

life or personal liberty except according to procedure established by law. Article 21 of the Constitution in its expansive meaning encompasses

various rights of elderly persons/ senior citizens such as right to dignity,

right to health, right to adequate pension and right to shelter. There is

need to continuously monitor implementation of rights of elderly persons/

senior citizens. Extensively addressed the issue by the Hon'ble Supreme

Court of India in judgement of Ashwani Kumar v. Union of India Writ

Petition (C) No. 193 of 2018, decided on 18.12.2018. [9] Whereas Article 226 of Constitution of India relating to the

writs, the jurisdiction of High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution,

which is essentially an equity jurisdiction, should not be exercised in

favour of a person who approaches the Court after long laps of time and

no cogent explanation is given for the delay. However, no hard and fast

rule can be laid down or a straight-jacket formula can be adopted for

deciding whether or not the High Court should entertain a belated petition 9 filed under Article 226 of the Constitution and each case must be decided

on its own facts and this issue has been addressed by the Hon. Supreme

Court of India in judgment of Bangalore City Co-operative Housing Society

Ltd. v. State of Karnataka , 2012 AIR (SC) 1395 whereas Public Interest

Litigation is a proceeding in which an individual or group seeks relief in

the interest of the general public and not for its own purpose; S.P. Gupta

v. Union of India , reported in AIR 1982 SC 149; D.C. Wadhwa v. State of

Bihar , reported in AIR 1987 SC 579; Ratlam Municipality v. Vardichand,

reported in AIR 1980 SC 1622. [10] Therefore, keeping in view the reliance which has been

rendered by the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India as well as the Site

Inspection Report in detail which is stated supra and also keeping in view

the aforesaid Articles of the Constitution are concerned, it is deemed

appropriate to state that there is no substance in the contentions made by

the learned counsel for the petitioner for seeking intervention by filing the

instant writ petition in the nature of PIL and hence, this PIL does not

survive for consideration of all the prayers sought for by the petitioner.

[11] In view of the above reasons and findings, this PIL is

disposed of.