1 3 23 passed since 1872. dealing with such problems as the
protection of workers, the regulation of motor vehicle
trafﬁc, the regulation of selling of securities and of
merchandise and the enforcement of liquor prohibition
laws. . . ." in my opinion, 'wherovelzi ﬁnd so far as it is possible; i '
thﬁy ought to iiarrndnize with, and support, and " i
ot er.". 45. Sometimes, notwithstanding that an act is immoral, 
it may be necessary to put it outside the _criminal law ,_hin_
because it is difficult to enforce a law punishing it. The
observations of an eminent Judge' are of 1nterest:-- 46. The same eminent Judge? has made the point about Function of
the proper function of the criminal law, as compared with Cmmﬁallﬁw
the moral law, in these Words: ---- $33321'?!

pared. 47. In the course of our deliberations, we tried to analyse A"'.'1Y'i'.°' V
the common characteristics of the offences in question'. ?c"'°°°"°m,n:e, ; ==
Many of the offences seem to have the following features in ' " But all these features are not shared by' each of the
offences (e.g. theft of public property and oﬁences relating
to taxes). Moreover, some of the offences--e.g. theft of
public property--are, even now, punishable under the Indian
Penal Code . '

ANALYSIS or SPECIAL ENACTMENTS 48. What we would like to emphasise is, that most of the
special enactments dealing with 'these oﬂfencesl possess
some special features, and we proceed to state some of
these special features. -- These special features are brieﬂy, special penal
sions, provisions modifying mens rea, provisions relating to
liability of officers of companies, vicarious liability, special
rules of evidence, penalties by rules, special powers, special
provisions as to sanction, provisions for publicity, and
similar provisions which illustrate the special character of
the enactments? 49. We begin with one feature found in many of the
enactments, namely, the existence of special penal provi-
sions. These seem to take various shapes- nuing offences'-6, provisibnsenhancin the powers of
Magistrates in respect of fines' (for o ences under the
special enactments), and provisions for enhanced

'Para. 2, supra. -- 'See paragraphs 49 to 81, infra. ,
3C6'f. F. N. Roy, v. Collector of Customs, A.I.R. I957 S.C. 648, 650,
para. . _
4See section 24 (I) (:'v), Industries (Development and Regulation) Act,
1951 (65 of 1951). p » _ 7
'As no continuing pire:5¢es,i'_s[ut at' jims in Mutu'c1'p5aICour'uciIv.
Rawat Ram, A.I.R. 1965 Ray rabs - gt? it . . '»
" nndkesnﬁationynm, it

uses section 29A, Ixtdus es 
3 § i' 

(65 of 1931). .5

provi- punishment in gegpg-ct of subsequent offences, e.g. section 16 , Prevention of Food Adulteration Act'-2. (d) Then, revocation or amendment of licences
may be provided for. An example is section 12(1) of
the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act?
1951. (e) Lastly, penalties may be provided for, not in
the enactment. but in the rules made thereunder. Thus,
rules made under the Central Excises and Salt Act,
1944 , contain extensive penal provision'-5-3. In our
opinion, if certain penal provisions of special enact-
ments are removed while other provisions are allowed
to continue in the special enactments, then the inte-
grated scheme of the special enactments would be des-
troyed without any compensating advantage. 50. It should also be noted, that the enactments relating Mm.-ea
to some of the offences under consideration modify the re- m0diﬁtd-
quirements of mens Tea. thus standing in contrast with the Indian Penal Code . \ 51. Forthe present purpose, it is not necessary to ana- Analysis of
lyse in detail the various special Acts in order to show how kind' 01'
the mens rea, i.e. "some blameworthy conditions of mind"" """' "'"'
has been modiﬁed. But some broad points may be
indicated. While dealing with mens Tea, it would be convenient
'to group" the various crimes into four classes--- . (i) Crimes in _wln'ch the mens tea' is found in an
intention to commlt 'in illegal act. (General intention). _ (ii) Crimes in which 'a particular intention" is re-
quired (e.g. in Enghsh Law, burglary is house-.breaking
by night with intent to commit a- felony) .11. 'Prevention of Adultezution Act, 1954 (37 of 1954). 'See State v. Badri, A.I.R. 1965 Raj. 152, para.1r2.
3 The Industries (Development and Regulation) Act , I95! (65 of 1951)

40f. :11 ct' o (3 d 'th ' p ' Ind ' _
ment and 1%:gSiilatli(<'>Ii11)3 Act? £69291 '(E5 c§§c?9°sn£).24(IXw)' mm" ( Develop

'Cf. A. A. Beeravoo v. Collector , ac.,_ (1965) 2 Cr. L. J'. 279 (Kerala).
'See also para 77 infra. management of vehicles in public streets); (iv) Crimes in which the requirement of mens red
is reduced to a minimum (i.e. abducting a girl under 16
from her parents, 'though the girl is believed to be above 16) 2. , ' 52. But, beyond these examples3, lie the cases where the
legislature has absolutely forbidden the commission of cer-
tain acts under penalty of ﬁne (or imprisonment in default
of payment of ﬁne), apart. altogether from the question of
mens Tea'. That the liability so created is of a quality
different from that attaching to ordinary offences requiring
mens Tea is now well-recognised by the case-law and ex-
tensive literature that has grown around these offences. It
is not necessary to deal with these offences of "strict liabi-
lity" at length. As has been said, strict responsibility "has
been with us so long that it has become accepted as a
necessary evil''''. At the same time, a brief discussion is
not out of place. 53. In this connection, we may quote the 'following
observations of the Privy Council in a recent case":- tively prevented. So a publican may be made respon-
sible for observing the condition of his customerszg". In other words, these are cases in which--"Intention to
commit a breach of the statute need not be shown. The

breach in fact is enough"-'.". 54. The passages quoted above' have been discussed at Knowledge
length in a recent decision of the Supreme Court of India''-'' ofhlllesahtv
which also deals with the question, how far mens rea in xlfggi
the sense of actual knowledge that the act done by the '
accused Was contrary to the law, may be requisite. It was
pointed out there, that "starting with an initial presumption
in favour of the need for mens rea, we have to ascertain
whether the presumption is overborne by the language oi
the enactment, read in the light of the objects and purposes
of the Act, and, particularly, whether the enforcement of
the law and the attainment of its purpose would not be
rendered futile in the event of such an ingredient being con-
sidered necessary". On the other hand, where it cannot be said that the
object of the Act would be defeated if mens rea is read as
an ingredient, courts would be slow to dispense with it'. 55. Examples of reduction or elimination of mens rea English case
are abundant in the case law in England regarding the Food 011 "WIS 1'00

and Drugs Act,3--°-1°-11 and the Weights and Measures Acts" :'ﬁ';';"sfa"t:ti;_

'Hobbs, v. Winchester Corporation,' (1910) 2 K.B. 471. 'Candy v. Le Cocq, (1884) L.R. 13 Q.B.D. 207. 56. In India, a

a prosecution for an offence pertaining to the sale of any

adulterated or misbranded article of food, to allege merely '

that the vendor was ignorant of the nature, substance or
quality of the food sold by him, or that the purchaser, hav-
ing purchased any article for analysis, was not prejudiced
by the sale'. It has been held", that under this Act even

the sale of any article to a particular customer on the undeI!- _
standing that the customer is to use it only for animals, it '_ - .
In England also, provisions of the correspond» 1' - punishable. ing statutes are given a wide interpretation'. 57. Another example of a provision dispensing with
mens rea is section 167(12A) read with section 52A of the
(old) Sea Customs Act'. The net result of these two provi-
sions Was, that if a vessel constructed, adapted, etc., for the

purpose of concealing goods, under section '52A, 'entered; '

etc., within the limits of India, the vessel would be liable
to conﬁscation. The master of the ship was also liable to
a penalty not exceeding rupees 1,000. It has been held';
that having regard ,to the fact that this sub-section, as con.»

trasted with other sub-sections, did not use the word . . Page 42- 58. A recent decision of the Supreme Court' virtually Qgcnce,
establishes the same position in respect of offences under gder the
the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 19472. N133 39

change Act. 59. Of course, the question whether the liability under
a statute is absolute, is ultimately one of construction of
the particular statute, and the answer will depend On the
language employed in the statute', the policy behind it',
and how far 'enforcement of the statute would suffer by
adherence to the doctrine of mens rea5. The examples cited above are merely intended to show
that in relation to some of the enactments relating to the
olfences in question, it would be proper to say, that they
ﬁx their attention on the acts themselves, irrespective of
the knowledge or intention". 60. The above discussion' will show, that it cannot be cnassiﬁcationi
asserted that all the eight classes of offences with which pfoﬁenqes
we are concerned in this Report" stand on the same footing '""l"f:;'°'
with reference to mens rea. In fact, the offences seem to woe to e" 61. We may, in this connection, also refer to certain Companies.
special provisions concerning companies. The subject of

{ State v. M. H. George , A.I.l§. 1965 Sl.C. 722, para. 40, 41 (May)
(Reviews case-law). ' The Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1947 (7 of 1947). The question has recently been discussed in a Bombay
case". 62. But the provisions that deserve especially to be men- tioned in the present context are those which (subject to

certain qualiﬁcations), treat directors and oﬁicers of the
company as liable for the offences committed by the
company. . " 63. An example of such a provision is section 17(1) oi
the Prevention of Food Adulteration Act "-11, quoted below: 'Sec Halsbury, 3rd Edn., Vol. Io, page 281, pa_ra._ 521 _; and Vol. 6, pages
440 to 442, paras. 853 and 854, dealing wih the criminal liability of the com-
panies and also with the criminal liability of officers, particularly page 441,
footnote (f). . 'See also Gower, Modern Company Law, (1957) '(I963 Impression),
pages 137 to 138. 'In England, the leading cme is «R. v. I. C. R. Haulage, (I944) K.B. 55! s(I944) .1 A11 Eng. Rep. 691, 693, (C-C_._A-)- (Prosecution of company for common law conspiracy to defraud). 'Welsh, "Criminal Liability of Corporation" (1946) 62 L.Q.R. 345. 'Russell on Crime, (1964), Vol. 1, page 96. 'Kenny, Outlines of Criminal Law, (1962), page 70, para. 50. 'Glanvi1le Williams, Criminal Law, The General Part, (1961), page 853,
et seq. 'Motipur Zamindari Co. v. State of Bihar , (1953) S.C.R. 72o ; A.I.R.
1953 S.C. 320, 323, para. 9. 65. The practice of inserting such provisions' has not
escaped criticism. The comment "of Upjohn J. in one case
may be referred to. There the statutory provision in issue
was'~" as fo1lov.'s:---- -A

. . . . .Where an offence'under this Act has been.
committed by a body corporate (other than a local
authority), every person who at the time of commission
of the offence was a director, general manager, secre-
tary or other similar ofﬁcer of the body corporate, or
was purporting to act in any such capacity, shall be
deemed to be guilty of that offence, unless he proves
that the offence was committed without his consent or
connivance and that he exercised all such diligence to »-
prevent the commission of the offence as he ought to
have exercised having regard to the nature of his func-
tions in that capacity and to all the circumstances". The following observations were made on this .
provision5 ; -- 66. The question of vicarious penal responsibility also
Y' falls to be considered, in this context. The rule at common
law is that (subject to certain exceptions), a master is not

vicariously responsible for the crimes of his servants'-''-". 67. This common law rule' may undergo a modiﬁcation
' Y ' in relation to special enactments. The liability so imposed
may be vicarious either in relation to the actus reus. or in
relation to the mcns re-oz. ' The method by which such modi-
ﬁcation is achieved is two--fold. There may be statutory
provisions creating vicarious responsibility, by using words
' such as "no person shall eiﬂierby himself or by anyiservant
or agent" do some act~"~'-'. 68. Besides such statutory modiﬁcations"',_ there may be
a modiﬁcation as a result of judicial construction. ' A statute
may be so construedas to 'render a person criminally liable
for the acts of his servants; and, such a construction might
49 'Kenny,' Outlines of Criminal Law (1962), pages 38, 42, 43, 48 and

'See discussion in Glanville Wfiﬂiants, Criminal Law---The General
Part, (1961), pags 267 to 269, para. 92. welfare offences"-5. Vicarious liability for statutory offences is, in many
cases, justiﬁed on the principle, that if a master chooses to-
delegate the conduct of his business to a servant, then, if
the servant in the course of conducting the business, does an
act which is absolutely p'roh1'.uited. the master is liable".
On the other hand, where intent is a necessary element_ as
in attempt, the doctrine of vicarious liability may be nega-
tiveds. The link between vicarious liability and absolute
prohibition can be seen in the following observations:--- The following observations of Channell J. with refer-
ence to a case under the Weights and Measures Act, 1878",
illustrate this aspect" :-- pages 27o--285. - 2For the position in Australia, see---- _
(1') Proudman v. Dayman and the judgement of Dixon J. therein,.
(I953) 67 Commonwealth Law Reports, 536, 540 ; ( ii) Thomas V. R. (1937) 59 Commonwealth Law Reports 279,
300, 305 (D1xonyJ.); (iii) Note by Colin Howard in 67 L.Q.R. 547; and (iv) Colin Howard, Strict Responsibility (1963): Chapter 7. 72. Really speaking, vicarious liability in this context is
an aspect of strict liability. As has been observed', "By

the general principles of criminal law, if any matter is made '5

a criminal offence, there is imported into it that there must
be something in the nature of mens rea. Therefore, in

offender or not. Vi 'ous
lllb 

pact of
strid liability . ordinary cases a corporation cannot be guilty of a criminal . offence, nor can a master be liable criminally for an offence
committed by his servant. But there are exceptions to this
rule in the case of quasi-criminal oﬁences, as they may be
termed-----acts forbidden by law under a penalty, possibly
even under the penalty of imprisonment, at any rate in
default of payment of a ﬁne--because the legislature thought
it so important to prevent the act being committed that it
forbade it absolutely to be done in any case. It seems to
me that exactly the same principles apply to a corporation
doing such a thing. If it does an act which is absolutely
forbidden it is liable for a penalty.". 73. The above analysis of mens Tea', and vicarious crimi-
nal liability-3, is not intended to imply that all the enact-
ments dealing with the eight categories of the oﬂfences

'Peark:, Gumton and Tee Ltd. v. Ward, (I902) 2 K.B. I, II ; (I902)
A.E.R. Reprint 228, 232 (per Channel], J.). The analysis is only intended to bring out the position, that
at least in respect of some of them, there has been a modi- ﬁcation of mens rea. The analysis is also intended to demonstrate, that sta-
tutes creating new crimes represent the attempts of the
Legislature to give eﬁect to the criminal policy of the
moment. "The Legislature is therefore primarily concerned
to ﬁnd the best method of dealing with the particular mis-
chief which it is, at that moment, seeking to repress, and
its decisions, aimed _at a narrow target, are not as a rule
reached by any careful regard for general principles of an
abstract kind". Further, it will also show, that "as things are, the sta-
tutory crimes, as a whole mass, cannot be brought under a
simple schemes of general principles of criminal liability". Representing, as they do, eﬁorts of the Legislature to
repress anti-social conduct of a particular variety prevalent
at the particular moment when the Legislature is confront-
ed with the problem, these enactments, therefore, may not
fit in with the Scheme of the Pe'na1'Code. A synthesis of
the principles on which most of the crimes in the Penal
Code are based (on the one hand), and the principles on

which some of the crimes dealt with by these special enact- '

ments are based (on the other hand), would be difficult to
achieve. In so far as mens rea is eliminated or modiﬁed,
these special offences are "quasi-criminal" rather than
criminal. Special rules 74. Besides provisions modifying mens rea5, and similar

°f°V'd°n°°- provisions there are special rules of evidence laid down in
respect of many of the pffences in question. An example
is section 14 of the Essential Clorrimodities Act''', which pro-
vides that where a person is prosecuted for contravening
any order made under section 3 (ot_ the Act), being an order
which prohibits him from doi_ ' any act or being in posses-
sion of a thing, without lawfu authority or without a per-
mit, licence or other document, the burden of proving that
he had such authority, permit, licence, or other document
shall be on him7. i

'Para. 2, supra. 2See para. 60, supra. Provisions are left to statutory rules and orders, because

varied and recurring action by way of subordinate legisla-
tion is required, particularly in connection with essential

commodities. The following points seem to be worthy of
notice:-- nection with control _of sugar'-''-'. These were issued under the Essential Com-
modities Act. In 1963, an order on the subject' was
issued under the Defence of India Rules, 1962.
Reference may also be made to orders issued under
the Sugar (Regi1lation'of'Production) Act'. 'The Sugar (Control) ';Ordct,_,1955. ,(S.R.O. I862-Ess. Com., Sugar,

dated the 27th August, I955). See Divan Sugar etc. Mill: v. Union of

India, (X959) 2 S.C.R. (Supp) 123 ; Af.I.R. 1959 S.AC.' 626. 'The Sugarcane (Control) Order,' 1955, (S.R.O. 1863fEss.' Com. Sugarcane, dated the 27th August, V1955). 'The Sugarcane Prcssmud Control Order, 1959 :(G.S.R. 551/Eta.- Com/Press-mud, the zgtlr April, {959). 1963). Particulars of the amendments are given in the foot-
'note-5. 'See, for example- (t') the Sugar (Regulation of Production) Act, 1961 (55 of 1961); (ii) the Sugar Export Promotion Act, 1958 (93 of 1958); (iii) the Sugarcane Control (Additional Powers) Act, 1962 (39 of h

1962) ; 4 (iv) the Sugarcane Act, 1934 (15 of 1934), which has been repealed
in some States by local Acts ; (1)) section 4 , Sugar (Special Excise Duty) Act, 1959 (58 of 1959). 'For history of some of the laws regarding sugar, see Tika Ramji V_
'State, (r956) S.C.R. 393 ; A.I.R. 1956 S.C. 676. 5The notiﬁcations amending the orders were- SRQ. 2464, 27th July, 1957. SRO. 2630, 14th August, 1957. SRO. 4043, 14th December, 1957 (published on 21-12-1957 ).
SRO. 399, 25th January, 1958 (published on r-2-58). 'GSR. 346, 5th May,_1958 (published on 10-5-58). GSR. 242, 15th April, 1958. GSR. 609, 12th July, 1958. 'GSR. 625,'12th July, 1958 (published on 19-7-58). 'GSR. 171, 7th February, 1959. GSR. 347, r8th March, 1959. -GSR. 641, 27th May, 1959. -GSR. 925, 29th July, 1959 (published on 8-8-59). GSR. 121, 21st January, 1960 (published on 30-1-60). GSR. III7, 20th September, 1960 (published on 24-9-60).
GSR. I407, 24th November, 1960. I A
GSR. 2, 3rd January,-196%. V7 : Thus, under clause 14(b)(2) of the Cotton Control
Order, 1955, more than 4,000 orders were issued in

1958"'. (f) Again, it may become necessary to __add to the
very list of essential co'q1.modi_ttes in' the Essential
Commodities Act '. ' ' '

This has been done in respect of several com-
modities, by notiﬁed orders-'{--°-7-3-9-1°. The above illustrations .v_vi1l show, that a degree of ﬂexi-
bi1ity'is required in" regard to' control over commodities,
which cannot be had 2under the Indian Penal Code . 37. In connection with delegated legislation", it may be
pointed out, that it may be' neressary to frame rules im-
posing different requirements for different situations. An
example is a rule mad under 1 . Prevention of Food ct",
whereby the speciﬁed i0.IifS' 759 iph "Gh_,ee". must co_n grm
were laid down differently for diﬁerent areas, having re-
gard to the fact that the "Reichert" value of pure gheeis
not constant, but is dependent on several factors, such
as------what is the breed of 'the cattle in an area, Whether the
cattle are fed on pasture or on stall, and so on"-1'. 78. Another special feature to be noted is the conferment
of special powers. An example is section 10 of the Preven- Sixth Report of the Committee on Subordinate

'See, for example A _
l: Sabha) (9th September, 1959), page 2, para. 7. Legislation (Second L0

' The Essential Commodities Act, 1955 (to of 1955). '
'See Committee on Subordinate Legislation, Sixth" Report (Second Lok
Sabha) (9th September, 1959), patch -2<_)+2r(Appeni_:lix 3), 4th column.
4Sec section 2 (a) (1'), Essential Ccﬂmodities Act, 1955 (10. of r955).
'SD. 2232, dated the 13th Septeni~b_e'1-,r96o. (Cinema carbons).
°s.o. 2395, dated the 8th sep:en'£%'e}, 1962. (Non-ferrous' metals). d)7N0tiﬁcation No. GSR/Ess. Comm. dated the 15th April, 1959. (Press-
mu . '
°S.R.0. 828, dated the 9tl1April,' I956. (drugs).
°s.o. 3594, dated' the 24'n:"N9v'm'.ber, 'I962. (Cement). ' i ii.' 5- i
1 ! 43 tion of Food Actl, whereunder, a food inspector has power
"to take" samples of any article of food from certain persons.
As has been pointed out2, without such a provision, the
inspectors cannot carry out the duties assigned to them,
and the section, thus, is a "pivotal" 'section. 79. Another type of special provision is a requirement special pro-
relating to sanction of a particular authority before prose- "$101,133 *0
cution can be instituted. An example is section 107 of the '°'3"°t'°°' Insurance Act ', under which the sanction of the Advocate- General is required before proceedings could be instituted
against insurers or against any director, etc., under the
Act'. There is a similar provision requiring sanction of the
speciﬁed authority for prosecutions under the Prevention
of Food Adulteration Act5, the Drugs' Act", the Income-tax
Act7, the Customs Act", and other special enactments. 80. Special enactments sometimes "contain special provi- Provisio_n§

sions intended to add to their deterrent effect. The most f°' P""1'°"Y'
apt illustration in this context is a provision for publicity.
'Thus, the Australian Act regarding black-marketing',
makes elaborate provisions for, giving publicity to convic-
tions for black-marketing. _When 3 person has been con-
victed of the offence of black-marketing, then, under' the
Act,-- (i) the court shall require the person convicted to
exhibit, outside his place of business, a notice, contain-*
ing particulars relating to the conviction and to keep
it exhibited continuously for not less than three
months; (-272) the court 'mtg require hi"rh to print on the
invoices, accounts and letter-heads to be used' by such
person in business, during a period of not less' than
three months, a notice regarding his conviction', con-
taining such particulars as the court determine; (iii) the Attorney-General may direct that the ' I
particulars regardingthe conviction may be broadcast; 'The Prevention of Food A£iultcr'a'tion 1954 (37 of 1954). 'Narasz'inharaa v. State of Andhra' Pradesh, A.I.R. 1964 Andhra '
:Pradesh 501, 503, para. 14. Attorney-General, also in a newspaper. Somewhat similar provisions are found in the Act that
was in force on the subject in West Bengal'. Provisions for publicity are found in some Central Acts.
also?-3-4. SP°°i31<=ha- 81. The features enumerated above" amply show, that

'"'°a'ft'm°f tthe the enactments in question are of a special character, and

en en S' stand apart from the general criminal law of the country
embodied in the Indian Penal Code . P°55ib'g"Y °f 82. While taking a decision about transferring the
fgﬂfmmm provisions of special enactments to the Indian Penal Code ,
' we should bear in mind a practical aspect, namely, that.
with the passage of time, new and fresh offences under
the' head "anti-social offences" will come into existence,
and those new offences may, in the light of practical needs,
necessitate their own special rules of evidence and proce-
dure, as well as special provisions as to maximum anch
minimum punishment. The manifestations of human
ingenuity cannot be predicted, and special provisions may
become necessary to tackle them. On the other hand, it.
may be that several of the offences dealt with in the special'
enactments now in force may, in course of time, become-
obsolete or lose their importance. In view of these consi-
derations, it would-be' more practicable to keep provisions,
relating. to such oﬁences in special enactments, as they;
are at present. In this connection, we may also point out, that besides-
the offences listed by the Santhanam Cornmitteeb, there
are several other offences which could be regarded of an»
anti-social character, and that these are all dealt with in.
special laws'. Like1ih00d_ 83. We' would also point out, that with the passage of'
:¢fs':;';ﬁ"°"" time, new and fresh devices to evade the existing taxation
into em?' or economic laws might come into being, and the more
v.-nee. convenient course would, therefore, be to deal with thenr

in the relevant special enactments rather than in the- Indian Penal Code . ' Sections 20 and 21 , West Berna! Black-marketing Act (32 of 1948)
(repealed by West Bengal At: 33 of 1954). )'Sec section 16 (2) , Prevention of Food Adultcration Act, I954 (37 of
1954 - 'See also section 287 of the Income-tax Act, I961 (43 of 1961), and
the recommendation made in the Report of the Direct Taxes, ctc., Com---
lnlttee, (I958-59), pages 186-187, para 7-87, 7-88. 'See also section 35 , Drug: and Cosmetics Act , r940 (23 of 1940). 'Paras. 48 to 8o,supra. ' 'Paragraph 2, supra,

'See Appendix 10. ' 45 84. As has been statedl, "The _race between the
evaders of the law and the authorities who enforce the
law may, in some ﬁelds (like techniques and methods),
be one (continuous process, in which each tries to get the
better of the other. In such circumstances, the Legislature
and the Government may try to equip the enforcers of the
law at any time with powers required at that time, consi-
dering the prevailing circumstances, the nature and
extent of actvities of evaders and extent of power requi-
site for the ofﬁcers enforcing the law, including rules and
notiﬁcations to deal with the evaders." 85. We also made an attempt to study the genesis of Genesis of
some of the special enactments, and the study bears out Spggtalents
what we are endeavouring to emphasise, namely thee" m '
"special" character" of the relevant enactments. Thus,
the Prevention of Food Adulteration Bill was introduced,
for the following reasons":- Notwithstanding the existence in the Indian Penal Code of certain sections punishing adulteration', the enactment
of a separate law was proposed, because that Was consider-
ed the only adequate Way of dealing with the problem. 86. Similarly, the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947 Was passed5, because the opportunities for bribery and
corruption had been enormously increased by war condi-
tions, and because it was anticipated that post-war recons~
truction would involve disbursements of very large sums
of Government money. The enactment of a special_provi-
sion whereunder, possession of a sudden accretion of
wealth should constitute an offence was (apart from proce-
dural changes) the main innovation introduced by the
Act. The section creating the offence was framed in the
terms in which it is now found ( section 5 ), because it was

felt that the correct legal course was to create a new
offence of "criminal misconduct". 'Shreeram Durgaprasad (Private) Ltd. v. D. C. Customs Department,
A.I.R. I965 A.P. 294, 302, para. 33 (per Anantanarayana Ayyar I.) (August).
2Para. 81, supra. 87. Again, the Railway Stores Act1 was passed in 195_5
to replace the Railway Stores (Unlawful Possession) OI'd1-
nancez, and to extend its provisions to Part B States". The
Ordinance itself was promulgated on the 13th May, 1944,
with a view to preventing persons from having unlawful
possession of articles of railway stores, a thing, of frequent
occurrence towards the end of the last 'wa7'- Th_€ Act
creates a new offence of "unlawful possession of railway
stores"". The offence is more drastic than theft and alhed
offences, inasmuch as, under the Act,---- ' (t) it is enough if there is a reasonable suspicion

that the stores are stolen or unlawfully obtained, and
(it) it is for the accused to account satisfactorily

how he came by such stores. 88. The Telegraph Wires Act.' was enacted5, because
thefts of copper wires used in telegraph lines had been so
rampant, that tele--communications in several parts of the
country were considerably dislocated during the two years
preceding the passing of the Act'. Many offenders had
escaped only due to the failure to prove in court that the
wires found in their possession had been stolen from the
Posts and Telegraphs Department. Since copper wires
used in telegraph lines were of distinctive gauges, it was
felt that it would not be unreasonable to presume that any
person found in possession of wires of these gauges came
into their possession unlawfully (except in the case of
persons who purchased them from the Disposal stock).
Later, by an amendment in 19537, sale or purchase of any
quantity of telegraph wire [as deﬁned in section 2(b) ]
was prohibited except with the permission of the prescrib- ed authority. 89. Similarly, the Imports Act" was enacted, because
it was considered" that the measures of control imposed
under rule 84 of the Defence of India Rules and subse-
quently extended under the Emergency Provisions (Con-
tinuance) Ordinance, 1946 (20 of 1946) would have to be
continued for some time longer, in order to avoid any dis-
turbance to the economy of the country during the transi-
tion from war time to peace time conditions. At the same

'The Railway Stores (Unlawful Possession) Act, 1955 (51 of 1955).
2The Railway Stores (Unlawful Possession) Ordinance, 1944 (19 of

1944)- 3See the Statement of Objects and Reasons, Gazette of India, (1954),

Part II, section 4 , page 374. 4Section 3. 4
" The Telegraph Wires (Unlawful Possession) Act, 1950 (74 of 195o)_
'Gazette of India, (1950), Part II, section 2 , page 402.
7566 Section 4A; Telegraph Wires (Unlawful Possession) Act, 1950 (74 of 1950)- ° The Imports and Exports (Control) Act , I947 (I8 of 1947). Part €,S'e;at'l:e 8S6tatement of Objects and Reasons, Gazette of India-, (1947),- time, penalties had been "considerably reduced to Suit
peace conditions". 90. In this connection, it may be noted,_ that some of .«=i1teraci'oéi_s
the sections of the Indian Penal Code dealing with offences II§::m1lf<"-égdlean
relating to trade marks, were repealed or amended by by Special
special legislation which dealtcomprehensively with the enactments.
subject. Thus, section 478 , Indian Penal Code (Deﬁnition
of trade--rnark) and section 480 , Indian Penal Code (Using
a false trade-mark), were repealed by, and sections 482,

483, 485 and 486 were amended by, the Trade and Merchan- dise Marks Act, 19581. 91. The study of the genesis of many of the special enact- 59.36331 en-
ments'-', thus. shows, that they were either enacted to deal actmlents and
with problems which arose temporarily -but survived $23-ff'i1:,31
longer than expected, or with problems that were conﬁned bythem
to particular trades or industries or particular kinds of
public properties, or otherwise to deal with particular
species of acts regarded as harmful. These laws are, tnus,
properly described as "special". Even though some of the
acts proposed to be penalised by them" were already
punishable under the Indian Penal Code , Yet 3 Special law
had to be passed. CATEGORY l~-'C3F'FENCF-S PREVENTING ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT 92. We now proceed to consider, in detail, the various Oﬂ'encgspfe_
categories of offences mentioned in the Report of the San- venting eco-
thanam Committee'. The ﬁrst of these is the followinegz--- nmnic

development
"Offences calculated to prevent or obstruct the (CategOl'Y 1)-
economic development of the country and endanger its
economic health". This appears to be a very wide and all-embracing
category. The test being the economic development of
the country and its economic health, enactments relating
to public ﬁnance, control in trade, control on industry,
control of power and resources and the like, would all fall
under that category. It_fact, it is wide enough to cover
many of the offences mentioned in the other categories
listed by the Committee, for example, evasion of taxes,
and proﬁteering. But, as the other categories have been
separately mentioned, the present one would have to be
Confined to what is not covered by them. We have listed separately some of the existing laws
that seem to have some bearing on such oi'fences5, that

1Thc Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958 (43 of 1958).
'Paras. 85-90, supra. 3E.g. theft. 4Paia. 2, supra. 'See Appendix I.

Other econo- mic crimes
mentioned by
Santhanam
Committee. list being illustrative only and not intended to be exhaus-
tive. So far as transferring the penal provisions of these
laws to the Indian Penal Code is concerned, we think that
it would not be a feasible proposition. It would, in the
ﬁrst place, tremendously increase the bulk of the Code.
Secondly, the penal provisions in these enactments are in-
extricably woven with the other provisions or with the
statutory rules issued thereunder. By way of example, we
may cite the Industries (Development and Regulation)
Actl. The penal section in that Act is section 24, which
punishes a contravention etc., (i) of the provisions of
several sections mentioned therein, or (ii) of directions or
orders issued under the sections mentioned therein, or (iii) of any rule the contravention whereof is made
punishable. The Act also contains provisions regarding
burden of proof ( section 28 ), and procedure and jurisdic-
tion ( sections 27 , 29 , etc.). All these provisions would
become incomplete if the penal sections are transferred to
the Indian Penal Code . The same can be said of many
other Acts, like the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act,
1947 and the Imports and Exports (Control) Act, 1947 . 93. We next come to the question whether addition of
any new provisions is called for under this category. At
another place in the Report', the Santhanarn Committee
gave an indication of the white-collar and economic crimes
which it had in mind. After observing that such crimes
rendered the enforcement of the laws more diﬂicult, and
that this type of crime was more dangerous not only
because the ﬁnancial stakes were higher but also because
irreparable damage to public morals was done, the Com-
mittee stated, that tax evasion and avoidance, share-
pushing, mal-practices in the share market and administra-
tion of companies, monopolistic controls, usury, under-
invoicing or over-invoicing', hoarding, proﬁteering, sub-
standard performance of contracts of construction and
supply, evasion of economic laws, bribery and corruption,
election offences and mal-practices, were some examples of
white-collar crimes. Now, of the examples so given by the Committee, most,
if not all, would be covered by the existing enactments on
the subjects in question', which include certain provi-
sions relating to economic offences also5. Monopolistic
controls and sub-standard performance of contracts are, of
course, important items. But the former has already been

; The Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951 (65 of
1951 . 'Reports of the Santhanam Committee, page 11, para. 2-I3. 'As to under-invoicing, etc., see also Report of the Santhanam Com- mittee, page 253, item (xxii). 4See Appendices I to 8. 'See Appendix 1. the subject-matter of consideration by a separate Commis-
sion', whose report has been submitted recently, and it is
unnecessary to discuss it in detail. The latter will be dealt
with separately'. 94. Economic crimes have received elaborate treatment Whether
in countries in Eastern Europe"--'. But certain observations adopti°P °f-
in relation to the laws in force in those countries penalis- ggﬁﬁgufiomp
ing such crimes may not be out of place. First, they seem Eastern '
to incarnate the economic and social philosophy of the Europe
group of countries concerned. Secondly, they include feasible-
some activities which are, as a rule, not punishable else-
where5, e.g. spe-:ulations'»'. Thirdly, many of the formula-
tions of the offences are of a sweeping character. The lan-
guage employed is general7, so that the provisions may
lead to varying interpretations at different times and
places. 95. For the reasons given below, we do not think that
provisions of the general and sweeping character found in
the laws of countries of Eastern Europe8 can be incorporat-
ed into the Indian Penal Code :-- cepted, putting such provisions in the criminal law
might lead to "bad judicial legislation'', in view of
their generality. In a country like India, with
numerous High Courts, such provisions are likely to
lead to conflicting interpretations and consequent un»
certainty in the law,--a risk which should be under-
taken only where compelling reasons exist. (c) Even if such provisions are to be enacted as a
part of the Criminal law, they would appear to be of
a special or temporary character. It is doubtful if they
can be properly put into the Indian Penal Code , which
is the basic penal law of the country. 96. One of the comments received by us suggest, that Points sug-
under the llI'St category", the following offences should be gestedin ---- _.__;____ .__,__ COIIlIn€ﬂtS.. 'The Monopolies Commission. dards,

and over-invoicing 97. We are not able to accept the suggestion. Some of
the offences, e.g. smuggling. and trafﬁcking in foreign cur-
rency, are already covered by special enactments'. A few.
like "any move to obstruct any foreign aid" or "any move to
incite the peasant to abstain from cultivation" appear to
be too wide. Assuming that such provisions would be
constitutional----a point on which we do not express any
opinion,---they might cover many innocent activities. For
example, a person who expresses an honest difference of
opinion in regard to the policy followed as to foreign aid
may ﬁnd himself within the four corners of the suggested
oﬂfence of "any move to obstruct an foreign aid". The rest,
such as inciting strikes, etc., can be more appropriately
dealt with in legislation relating to industrial disputes. CATEGORY 2.----EVASION AND AVOIDANCE or TAX 98. The second category of offences mentioned by the
Santhanam Committee is---- At another place in the Report", the Committee dis-
cussed in detail the topic of evasion and avoidance of
i-ncome--tax, and enumerated certain sections "of the Income-tax Act, 1961 , which appeared to the Committee
to offer scope for avoidance and evasion". The Committee
observed, that the Department itself should examine and
take suitable steps to plug loopholes on these matters; it
suggested certain administrative measures, as Well as two

'See Appendix I.
'*'Report' of the Santhanam Committee, page 271 and page 272, items (vii)
and (viii). 99. It is unnecessary to elaborate here the distinction
ordinarily understood between "evasion" and "avoidance".
The former denotes a defect in the enforcement of the
laws, while the latter denotes a defect in the law itself.
The latter has to be tackled by a detailed study of the
provisions of the relevant enactments. 100. The following extract from the Report of the
Income-tax Investigation Commission', which was pre-
sided over by Sir S. Varadachariar, former Judge of the
Federal Court, lucidly explains the distinction between

the two : -- 'It remains to add a few observations relevant to
the problem of avoidance and evasion. According to
well-established usage, the term "avoidance" denotes
the utilisation of loopholes to effect tax saving, Within
the letter though perhaps contrary to the spirit of the
law. It is rendered possible by defects in the framing
of the law or in its drafting, as a result of which cases
within the intendmem of the law have not been brought
in by clear or apt words, or cases which ought to be
fairly comprised within the policy of the law have
been omitted by oversight or for other reasons. Leak-
age of tax in this way has to be prevented by making
the law clearer or wider; but there will never be an
end to attempts at income-tax avoidance. Though a
Lord Chancellor some years ago referred in terms of
disapprobation to the efforts of tax dodgers and to "the
professional gentlemen who assisted them in the
matter" (Ldtilla V. Inland Revenue Commtss-ioner"--
Law Reports 1943 Appeal Cases at page 381), popular
or professional opinion does not seem to share that
view but is prepared to regard such attempts as a
"commendable exercise of ingenuity". As courts are-
slow to construe tax laws according to their "intent"
(as distinguished from the letter of the law), occasional

281 'Report of the Santhanam Committee, page 19, para. 3-15 and page

alfeport of the Income-tax Investigation Commission, (1949), page 7,. .8. i'I-Willa V- Inland Revémw Cotpmissigrierti (19413) I All Eng. Rgpqm 255,. at page 256 (House of 'I§ords'). ' ' Evasion" .Attitude to- wards tax
avoidance in

England. modiﬁcations of the statute Will be necessary 'I0 01055
loopholes that "judicial construction cannot plug". 101. Two varying attitudes seem to have been shown
towards tax avoidance in England. The traditional at-
titude of the judiciary was, that a tax--payer is entitled to
avoid the payment of tax so long as he could do so by
legal means. There is no rule of law against the subject's
making genuine and lawful arrangements to reduce
tax'-2. 102. This t.'a1itional attitude is represented by
following view expressed by Lord Quickswood"-':---- the

"Taxation is prima facie a wrong, for it consists in
taking from the taxpayer what belongs to him; and
that is prima facie wrong. Taxation is justiﬁed only
by the authority of the State, which is expressed in
the law. The taxpayer is morally bound to obey the
law, but is not bound beyond the law; for, apart from
the law, taxation would be blackmail or racketeering,
There is not, behind taxing laws, as there is behind
laws against crime, an independent moral obligation.
When therefore the taxpayer has obeyed the law, he
has done all that morality requires. 'Cf. I.R.C. v. _Duke of Westm1'nster, (1936) A.C.r, I9 ; (1935) All
Eng. Reports Reprint 259, 267 (H.L.). 'For a detailed discussion on " evasion ", " shifting " and "minimising"
of tax, see Encylopaedia of Social Sciences (September 1951 Reprint), Vol.
14, page 535 under "Taxation" (Robert Murray Haig). 'Lord Quickwood, Letter to the Times, February 20, 1943, cited in
Mannheim, Criminal Justice and Social Reconstruction (1946), page 146. 'See also Lord Tomlin in I.R.C. v. Westminster, (I936) A.C.I , at
page i9; (r935)Al1 E.R. Rep., 259, 267. '

law--we ' 53 It is said, that by avoiding a tax he throws a load On
to some other taxpayer. But this is not quite accurate; for
the deﬁciency might be met by reducing expenditure. . ..
is it not a good thing that there should be this last lawful
remedy against oppressive taxation by a majority, that
human ingenuity can always ﬁnd a Way by Whlch the
minority can escape from tyrannical imposts?". 103. Lord Tomlin's observations may also be cited1:--- 'Apart, however, from the question of contract
with which I have dealt, it is said that in revenue cases
there is a doctrine that the court may ignore the legal
position and regard what is called "the substance of
the matter", and that here the substance of the matter
is that the annuitant was serving the Duke for some-
thing equal to his former salary or wages and that,
therefore, while he is so serving the annuity must be
treated as salary or wages. This supposed doctrine
(upon which the commissioners apparently acted)
seems to rest for its support upon a misunderstanding
of language used in some earlier cases. The sooner
this misunderstanding is dispelled and the supposed
doctrine given its quietus the better it will be for all
concerned, for the doctrine seems to involve substi-
tuting "the uncertain and crooked cord of discertion" 104. The following observations of Viscount Simoni,
L.C., however, illustrate a change of attitude";_

'My Lords, of recent years much ingenuity has
been expended in certain quarters in attempting to

RepC:I{t.SRi§'§,vé6I;:1I:%80{HI«l7E.t§t1zinster, (1936) A.C. 1, 19; (1935) All Eng,
?Lazilla v. Inland Revenue Commissioners, (I943) A.C. 377, 381;
(1943) I All Eng. Reports, 265, 266 ; 25 Tax Cases 107, 117 (H.L.). ing the equivalent of such income, without sharing in
the appropriate burden of British taxation. Judicial
dicta may be cited which point out that, however
elaborate and artiﬁcial such methods may be, those
who adopt them are "entitled" to do so. There is, of
course, no doubt that they are within their legal
rights, but that is no reason why their efforts, or those

of the professional gentlemen who assist them in the '

matter, should be regarded as a commendable exercise
of ingenuity or as a discharge of the duties of good
citizenship. On the contrary, one result of such
methods, if they succeed, is, of course, to increase pro
tanto the load of tax on the shoulders of the great body
of good citizens who do not desire, or do not know how,
to adopt these manoeuvres. Another consequence is-
that the legislature has made amendments to our
income-tax code which aim at nullifying the effective-
ness of such schemes.' 105. But it would appear, that there has, again, been a
trend in the reverse direction'-'-»--'-'. 106. The following observations of Lord Simonds would
be of interest in this conn(-)ction5:- Reference may be made to the 0bS€I'Vati0I1S Of Lord
Norrnandlz--- :07. We may also refer to the principles adopted _re- I."'°'"P"~'"': 108. Other decisions on the subject are collected in a
recent case Of the Andhra Pradesh High Court'. The
following observations of the Supreme Court may also be
referred to:--- 'Vestey's (Lard) Executor: v. I.R.C., (1949), I All Eng. Reports 1108,
1120 (H.L.). 2Partz'ngt0n'V. Attorney General, (1869) Law Reports 4 H.L. I00, I22. 109. Legislation passed in England during and after the
Second World War illustrates the increasing efforts made
by the legislature to check avoidance of taxi. 110. As regards tax avoidance, it has been recognised in
the U.S.A._, that every transaction which results in tax
avoidance is not always entered into with the sole Object
of avoidance of tax. As an example, we may cite the
American institution of "foundation". An individual. a
family or a corporation may donate a proportion of his
or its assets to a permanent institution "established for
officially recognised charitable purposes", the donor
usually being the controller of an industrial or business
empire'. Such donations are exempt from gift tax, and are
deductable for purposes of estate tax. So far as the donee
organisations are concerned, they would ordinarily be
exempt from income-tax, property tax and other taxes.
Further. the donor gets a deduction in taxes in respect of
the charitable gift inter vivos (within certain limits). By
transferring the capital and annual income from his per~
sonal estate, the donor thus reduces his liability to tax.
At the same time, the donor sanctiﬁes his name and gives
a public proof oﬁ his social responsibility through the
establishment of a charitable institution'. 111. In many Indian decisions5-5-7-8--°--1°--" it has been
pointed out, that legal avoidance cannot be regarded as
reprehensible. 'State of Bombay v. Automobile arid Agricultural Industries Corpn.,
(I961) 12 S.T.C. 122 (S.C.) (Kapur, Hidayatullah and Shah JJ.). 'See, for example, section 35 (1), Excess Proﬁts Tax Act, 1941 (U.K.). 'See Friedmann, Law in a Changing Society, (1959), pages 86, 290 to 293.

'See also Report of the Select Committee to investigate foundations
(Hotase of Representatives, Reports No. 2514, 82nd Congress, 2nd ':Session
1953 - 'In re Bai Sakinabao, A.I.R. 1932 Bom. 116, 117 (Beaumont C.]. and
Rangnekar J.). 112. It may also be noted, that besides the imposition of
penalities and institution of prosecutions, there are many
other methods of preventing illegal evasion of taxes, par-
ticularly, strengthening the administrative machinery
and streamlining the procedure. We need not repeat what
has been said in the valuable reports of the various Com-
mittees" that had occasion to go into the subject'. M3. The existing provisions relating to tax evasion
have been listed separately'. Broadly speaking, provisions
against evasion can be classiﬁed into-- (i) provisiors which enable the taxing authority to
assess income, etc., which has escaped assessment; (ii) provisions which empower such authority itself
to impose a penalty; and (iii) provisions which create offences for which
a prosecution can be instituted in the criminal courts. An example of the ﬁrst5 is section 34 of the Income-Tax
Act, 1922, (now sections 147 to 153 of the Income--'tax Act,
1961)". An example of the second is section 273 of the
Income-tax Act, 19617. Strictly spealdng, We are concerned
here only with the third class. But it will be necessary to
refer to provisions of the second class, for purposes of
comparison. 1 Provident Investment Co., v. I. T. Commissioner, A.I.R. 1954 Born. 95, 97,
para. 3 (Chag1a C.J.). contained Code. In the ﬁrst place, these Ptovisions con-
tain minute and detailed references to the other Sections
of the enactment of which they form part--e.g. the section
under which a return is to be ﬁled, or a stamp is to be ﬁxed.
or the like. They cannot be divorced from those sections.
Secondly, if they are to be transferred to the Penal Code,
then, whenever laws imposing new kinds of taxes are
passed in the future, it may become necessary to amend Indian Penal Code also, and that might prove to be an in-
convenient process. Thirdly, there are special procedural
provisions2, which require the sanction of a particular
authority for instituting a prosecution for an offence under
the particular enactment, or which authorise the com-
pounding of offences, and so on. If the penal provisions of
the taxing enactments are transferred to the Indian Penal
Code , then the relevant procedural provisions of the tax-
ing enactments----which will then lose their justiﬁcation
for being retained in the taxing enactments will have to
be transfered to the Code of Criminal Procedure , and that
process also would be inconvenient. 115. So far as we could ascertain, there is hardly any
country governed by the common law system where the
offence of evasion of taxes has been incorporated in the
Penal Code. The provisions are found to exist either in
the enactments relating to the particular taxes', or in a
general Taxation Law'. 116. Further, the administration of these laws requires
specialised knowledge and experience, including, par-
ticularly, a knowledge of the various classes of income or
transactions that are taxable, the various deductions, ex- emptions and concessions that are permissible, and
the departmental practice. Even if these provisions are
transferred to the Penal Code,--assuming that such

transfer is feasible.-----the need for this special knowledge
and experience will always remain. There will be no
practical improvement as the police will not possess this
special knowledge and experience. 117. So far as we could gather, none of the various
Committees or Commissions5 that have gone into the ques-
tion of taxation structure or Taxation Laws or the adminis-
tration of Taxation Laws, has found fault with the placing
of the penal provisions in the taxation enactments. ' Para. I13 , supra. * E.g., section 279 , Income-tax Act, I961 (43 of 1961). 3 For example, section 198 of the Tasmania (Australia) Criminal Code
Act, (1924), reproduced in Appendix 28. 4 For example, section 201 , Internal Revenue Code of the U.S.A., dis-
cussed in Appendix 22. ' See Appendices 12, 13, 14 and I5. 118. We also considered at length the question whether Question off
it would be desirable to insert a general provision in The ';';:';tr';'1°";rg_ Indian Penal Code , punishing the evasion of taxes. The Vision as to
arguments for and against the adoption of such a course tax evasion

are summarised below 2 ---- consi dered. Arguments for and against including in the Indian Penal Code of the oﬂence of
lax-e'vasz'o7z

For Against

(1) A provision in the Indian Penal Code (I) The abhorrence is already

will reflect the society's abhorrence indicated by the Incomc--tax

of the crime in question and the Act. It IS not necessary to

importance which it attaches to it. put it in the Indian Penal
Code . (2) A comprehensive provision applicable (2) The purpose is adequately

to all taxes would be desirable. served by existing provision
in the law relating to each
tax. (3) Evasion of taxes is a major problem, (3) The defect is not in the law
and should be dealt with criminally. but in its enforcement. Even
the existing penal provisions

are not enforced. (4) Acts like keeping false accounts, mal<- (4) In practice, filing a false
ing false entries, keeping unaccounted return is the usual type of
money, should be covered. evasion. This is suﬂiciently

provided for by existing laws. (5) Prosecution for tax-evasion should be (5) Tax evasion is a technical
allowed at the instance of any person. subject, requiring special
knowledge. Only the De- partmental Oﬂicers are in a
position to understand the
technicalities. I

(6) A sweeping provision may,
in practice, turn out to
be vague, and thus cause
hardship. For Against

 

(7) In particular, the word
"evade" is vague, and may
be interpreted so as to em- brace even legitimate avoid- ance. (8) Any widening of the penal
provisions regarding taxation
laws should be undertaken
with caution, as it may bring
into being a weapon which has
great potentialities for abuse. (9) Prosecution is not the only
method of checking evasion. The real remedy lies in various
other non-penal measures,
such as a proper tax structure,
adequate strength of officers,
increased civic conscious- ness, creation of cordial
relations with assessees, and
prompt action under the
existing laws. (10) None of the various Com- mittees that have gone into
the subject of taxation in
India have recommended
such a change. After a careful consideration of all the issues involved, we have
come to the conclusion that the inclusion of a general penal provi.
sion of the nature referred to above would not prove to be an
improvement in practice, and may even cause hardship by reason of
its vagueness. In considering the question of inserting such a penal
provision, regard must be had not only to those who are guilty, but
also to those who are innocent. . '($1 119. As to the question of insertion of new p1"0ViSi0I13 Addition of
relating to evasion of tax, we do not think it proper to dis- nsw Pto-
cuss that question in the abstract. Any speciﬁc recom- "'"°"'
mendation must await speciﬁc proposals for amendment. 120. In one of the comments received by us, a SuggeS"Poin[3 gas-
tion has been made that the suppression of income, or gested in
suppression of information relating to sale and purchase, °°"'"'°'"" 121. Regarding "avoidance", it is obvious that the Avoidance
changes, if any, will have to be made not in the penal law {'°':h'° 5'
but in the taxing enactmentsl. That is outside the scope ac 3'
of this Report. CATEGORY 3.--MISUSE or PUBLIC PosrrIoN BY PUBLIC

SERVANTS 122. The third category of offences mentioned by the Misuse or
Santhanarn Committee is the following:-- I,heirbP0si-
tion y

"Misuse of their position by public servants in public ser-
making of contracts and disposal of public property, 3°" )
issue of licences and permits and similar other 'cg Y 3'
matters",

The Committee observed", that where there was power
and discretion, there was always the possibility of abuse,
more so when the power and discretion had been exercised
in the context of scarcity and controls and pressure to
spend public money. It also referred' to dishonest prac-
tices like the system of "speed money" (money paid to
speed up the process of movement of ﬁles, etc.) and to the
corruption prevalent in contracts of construction, pur-
chases, sales, etc.5. 123. There are numerous provisions regarding misuse Exist_ix_1a
of position by public servants in various enactments? Mis- P"°"'-°"°"'
use of such position in the making of contracts or disposal '
of property is not separately dealt with in any of these
enactments. If by such misuse the public servant con-
cerned obtains any valuable thing or pecuniary advantage,
the offence would be covered by section 5(1) (cl) read with

' See Appendix 2. 2 Cf. Para. 99-I00 , supra. 3 Report of the Santhanam Committee, page 9, para 2-9. ' Report of the Santhanarn Committee, page 9, para. 2-Io. 5 Report of the Santhanam Oo1mu'ttec,.psge IO, pan 2-xx. agﬁgsst 124. What remains is the misuse of such position with-
beneﬁt_ out obtaining any such beneﬁt. Such cases would be rare,

and if they do happen, it would be difﬁcult to ascribe a
criminal intention to the person concerned in such cases. fa°i'S';3'in 125 It has been suggested in one of the comments re- comments. ceived by us, that a new section-- section 164A ---should be
inserted in the Indian Penal Code to penalise the misuse
of position by public servants in the making of contracts,
etc. The matter, however, seems to be sufﬁciently cover-
ed by section 5 of the Prevention of Corruption Act". CATEGORY 4.--DELIvERY or GOODS NOT IN ACCORDANCE WITH
CONTRACT

D€1iVe1"Y,etC- 126. The fourth category of the offences listed by the

:1: fc%g°:§_"°' Santhanam Committee is the fol1owing:-- ' For a detailed analysis, see Appendix 23. 3 The Prevention of Corruption Act 1947 (2 of 1947). ' Report of the Santhanam Committee, page IO, para 2-11. (3. ' Report of the Santhanam Committee, Annexurc VII, page 236, i:e.n 63 goods which were not strictly in accordance with the
speciﬁcations laid down in the accepted tenders, or by not
applying the penalty clause in respect of rejected goods,
or by not strictly applying all the terms of the contract, or
by giving wrong certiﬁcates about completion of inspection
or actual despatch of goods. 127. We have listed separately1 some of the existing Existilag
provisions which have a bearing on the mal-practice in $323" Expl,anat*ion.--A dishonest concealment of facts is
a deception within the meaning of this section.'. 128. We considered carefully the question whether the "Cheati_n8"
offence in question is covered by section 415-420, Indian agd dfihV°'7
Penal Code. "Cheating", as deﬁned in section 415, 0 gm s'etc'
requires- (a) deception of a person, plus

(1)) fraudulently or dishonestly inducing the person
so deceived to deliver any property etc.

OR (a) deception of a person, plus (b) intentionally inducing the person so deceived
*0 d0 01" Omit any thing which he would not do or omit
if he were not deceived, and which act or omission
causes, etc., damage or harm to that person in body,
mind, reputation or property. 'See Appendix 4. 'Para. I27 , supra. Meaning of
" deception". The section, thus, falls into two partsl. Under the first
part, the act must be done fraudulently, etc., and must re-
sult in delivery, etc. Under the second part, there must be
intentional inducement, etc., and the act or omission in-
duced must cause damage or harm. Deception, is, how-
ever, common to both the parts- 129. Deception generally is "to lead into error by caus-
ing to believe what is false or to disbelieve what is true"'. The following observations of Buckley J." as to the
meaning of "deceive" are interesting:---- (The aspect of likelihood of injury, as an ingredient
of "intent to defraud", is not relevant for the present
purpose)'. 130. The ﬁrst ingredient of cheating is, thus, "deception' .
The point whiéh requires consideration is, whether there is
"deception" when a person delivers sub-standard goods,
without making any express representation that the goods
are in accordance with the contract. The argument that
may be advanced is, that the contractor does not deceive
any person, where he makes no representation that the
goods are in accordance with the contract. We are not
inclined to accept this argument. Though decided cases
dealing with this specific point are few5, it would appear,
that in such case a representation to the above effect could
be implied. It may be pointed out. that, as provided by
the E;z:pZanation to section 415 , Indian Penal Codez-", a
dishonest concealment of facts is "deception". Illustrations (h) and (i) to section 415 also emphasise the same aspect. 'Cf. Ramji v. Harshadrai, A.I.R. 1960 Born. 268. I) 'See P. P. v. Vedantam, A.I.R. 1952 Mad. I839 para. 4 (Subba Rao

'Re London an_d Globe Finance Corporation Ltd. (1903) I Ch. 728,
732-733 approved in R. v. Wines, (I953) 2 A11 Eng. Reports 1497, 1498
(Court of Criminal Appeal). 4As to this, see- (i) R. N. Gooderson, "Prejudice as a test of Intent to defraud ",
(1960) Camb. Law Journal 199: 201. (i0Q. E. v. Abbas, I.L.R. 25 Cal. 512 (F. B.). (i:'z)Q. E. v. Sushi Bhushan, (1898) I.L.R. 15 All. 210, 217
'See Appendix 24. 'See also para. 127, supra. 'Surendra v. Bat' Narmada, A.I.R. I963 Gui . 239.. 131. As has been observed', "The practice of deceptlon
implies the practice of fraud and falsehood. For, there can
be no deception without fraud, and falsehood 1s a Specles of
fraud implied in deceit. Now, fraud 1S hydra-headed, and
its ways of attack are insidious and innumerable. It may
consist of words, acts or conduct, or all combined.". 132. In practice, the point? may often be academic, as egfw
in respect of huge contracts where detailed bills are to be prgsemaﬁon
submitted, the bills will have to describe the goods SUP' academic.
plied in great detail, So that the contractor cannot avoid

making an express representation at some stage or other". 133. Where the defect in the goods is discovered before Attempt to
payment, it would be an attempt to cheat'-5-5. Cheat- 134. Another point which we had to consider was, whe- Cfomplicity
ther cases Where the officer receiving delivery and the :m§'f§§:§'_
offender are acting in complicity, are covered by sections dew
415-420, Indian Penal Code . We think that they would be
covered. In fact, this seems to have been assumed in a
recent decision of the Supreme Court', and in cases of cer-
tain High Courtss-9. 135. In England, at common law, short delivery was held Position in
not to be "cheating" (in the absence of use of false mea- English 1"-
sures, etc, as a general course of dealing, or to many cus-
tomers, or unless there is a conspiracy to cheat)"-11. The act
was regarded only as an unfair dealing. It was stated, that
fraud, to be the object of a criminal prosecution, must be
calculated to defraud numbers. 1 Gour, Penal Law of India, (1962), Vol. 3, page 2225. Z Para. 130, supra. 3 (If. Billinghurst v. Emp. A.I.R. 1924 Cal. 18, 41, 43 (Sanderson C. J.
and Richardson J.). and 4R Emp. A.I.R. 1924 Cal. 18, 41, 43 (Sanderson C. J. (C.C5.§.).v. Light, (1915) 84 L.J.K.B. 865 ,- (1914-15) A1l.E.R. Rep. 659

' Halsbury's Laws of England, (3rd Edn.), Vol. 10, page 828, footnote (h)
and page 931, para. 1602. 'Cf. Bzmwari Lal v. The Union of India, A.I.R. I963 S.C. I620 .
8 See in re 9'. S. Dhas, A.I.R. 1940 Mad. 155, 157. ' The decision in Sh . S B'
228, 229, para. 11 (S. K.e%:ga%'3nczlIn beazc:lis(:fi11guz}izsa}:«;dp:irI1'Iihelgffctiat. 225; 1°R.v.Whetl, 6 B , ' ' -~
leadmgs, cm (136; I'g(I1Zl.)I,>p2ara}1r2r°oIIf2s. 1127. cited In Archbold, Criminal

" See also Russel on Crime (1964), Vol. 2, pages 1163 and H54_ 66 This rule of the common law was altered, to some ex-
tent, by section 32, Larceny Actlr'. The relevant portion
of the section runs as follows'.- son any chattel, money, or valuable security, or causes
or procures any money to be paid, or any chattel or
valuable security to be delivered, to himself or to any
other person for the use or beneﬁt or on account of
himself or any other person; . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . -V

shall be tgujliy of a misdemeanour and on conviction
thereof liable to imprisonment for any term not exceed-
ing five years". The G.'-fp".'f_.'5SlOI] "false pretence" includes a pre-
tence by 3131 01- conduct without words spoken". Kinds of 136. In one of the c:::mnents*' received by us, it has been
ma]?-"""<'"'5' stated that there air: three kinds of rnalpractices that have
Corrie to notices»- {a) The contractor, in collusion with the inspectors
of Cvoverninent, committed illegal acts in getting stores
of an inferior quality passed as if they were of the
speciﬁcations speciﬁed in the contract, and supplied the
same and induced the Government to part with the
value thereof. (b) The contractor, after getting the stores passed
by the inspectors, despatched unpassed stores in place
of passed stores, and thus defrauded the GOVe1'nment
by inducing it to part with the value of the passed
stores. (C) The contractor, by furnishing false particulan
and quoting fictitious numbers of Railway Receipts,
cheated the Government and obtained 90 per cent. price
of the goods without supplying them. West Bengal
Act. 1=_16. As regards the addition of new provisions con- Addition of
cerning the oﬁences of hoarding, black-marketing and new Dro-
proﬁteering, an amendment of the Indian Penal Code '"5'°"s'
would not be convenient. The details of the' stock which

1The Essential Commodities Ordinance, 1955 (I of 1955). ' The Essential Commodities Act, 1955 (10 of 1955). 'KhoshedAl1'v. The King, A.I.R. 1950 Cal. 202. 4Ramananda v. The State, A.I.R. 1951 Cal. I20. 'State v. Hira Lal, A.I.R. I951 Bom . 369. I9;'éI)'11(e';l ovvzeiép 12:lIei(gja)1l Black-marketing Act, I948 (Wen Bengal Act 32of 70 can be lawfully possessed (-hoarding), the conditions sub-
ject to which transactions may be entered into (black-
marketing), and the maximum prices that could be charg-
ed (profiteering), would vary in respect of each com-
modity, and, therefore, a general and sweeping provision
cannot conveniently be incorporated in the Indian Penal
Code . We may also point out, that in respect of matters
on which the existing provisions are found to be inad-
equate, it is open to Government to initiate amendments
thereto or to introduce further special legislation, when-
ever necessary? CATEGORY 6.----AnULrE.nAr1oN V

Adulteration 147. The sixth category of offences mentioned by the
(c'"°8°1'Y 6)- Santhanam Committee is----"Adulteration of food-stuffs
and drugs". EXi5'.",'g 148. The existing provisions as to these oﬁences are

p'°"S'°nS' listed separately". Some provisions on the subject are

contained in sections 272 to 276 , Indian Penal Code. But

special enactments on the subject that are now in force, - are much more important, and prosecutions are usually
ﬁled under the special enactments. Transfer not 149. The Prevention of Food Adulteration Act ' contains

f°3'"°"" elaborate provisions of a substantive, procedural and evi-
denciary character, which cannot possibly be transferred
to the Indian Penal Code . Section 2(1) of the Act contains an elaborate deﬁnition
of the expression "adulterated", and clauses (j), (k) and
(1') of that deﬁnition refer to the "prescribed" extent of
colouring matter or preservative, or the "prescribed"
standard of quality or purity, etc. The standard of quality
and purity and limits of colouring matter can thus be
ascertained only "from the rules made under the' Act. Section 19 bars the raising of certain defences by the
vendor to the effect that he was ignorant of the nature,
substance or quality of the food sold by him (except in
certain cases). Section 16(2) empowers the Court to
cause the oﬁender's name, etc., to be published where the
offender is a second or subsequent offender. Again, sec-
tion 13(5) contains a rule of evidence as to the report of
the public analyst. Section 21 confers higher powers upon
Magistrates of the First Class in relation to the sentences
that they can pass for oﬂences under the Act. It would,
obviously, be impracticable to transfer all these sections
to the Indian Penal Code . It would not be convenient to

léce, for ex:rhp1e, the Supply and Prices of Goods Act, I950 (70 of 1950)
which was repealed by the Repealing and Amending Act, 1957 . 'See Appendix 6. 'The Prevention tof Food Adulteration Act, 1954 (37 of 1954). in

split them also, that is, to transfer the substantive provi-
sions to the Penal Code, and to leave the remaining proce-
dural provisions in the Act, as that is bound to create
confusion. 150. A study of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act1 will also
show, that its penal provisions cannot be transferred to
the Indian Penal Code . There are vast rule-making
powers under sections 12, 16(2) and 33 of the Act, and
breach of the rules may attract penalty under sections 13
and 27(a) read with sections 17(e), 17A(e) 18(a)(i'ii), 18(a) (vi), 18(b), etc. Then, there are special rules of evidence in sections 19 and 25(3) . There are special provisions as to
jurisdiction and procedure in sections 15 , 32 and 36 . There
are provisions for enhanced punishment on second or
subsequent conviction, in sections 13(2) and 30 , and also a
provision regarding offences by companies in section 34 .
Finally, there is provision for publication of particulars
relating to sentences in section 35 . To transfer the penal
provisions to the Indian Penal Code Would, in View of
these special provisons, mean a virtual disintegration of
the Act. 151. As regards the addition of new provisions, that is Additi°119f
a matter concerning amendment of the relevant Acts. :'i'3;s}"°"' 152. The fact that we are not recommending transfer A<_1uIter9t_i0n

to the Indian Penal Code of the provisions as to adultera- 3"'? P'."_'1'°
tion" does not, of course, mean that we under-rate the

gravity of the offence of adulteration. In fact, public

opinion on the subject appears to be strong. A comment

signed by several citizens residing. in West Bengal has
suggested, that persons guilty of adulteration of medicines

should be punished with the death sentence along with
conﬁscation of property, that persons guilty of adultera- tion of food should be punished with life imprisonment

along with conﬁscation of property, and that in» all cases

of conviction, wide publicity through the Press, the cinema

and the radio should' be given. Another comment has
suggested, that the relevant Acts may be amended so as

to provide compulsory rigorous imprisonment and also

fine, to be imposed on the convicted persons. One com'- ment suggests, that sections 272 and 274 of the Indian Penal

Code should be suitably amended, and that the maximum
punishment for adulteration should be hanging, as such
adulteration may sometimes cause death, and that the

offence should be made cognizable. If any amendments pertaining to sentence are requir-
ed, those will have to be made to the relevant enactments
relating to food and drugs. 1The Drugs and Gosmetics Act; 1941: (23 of 1940); 'Para. I49-I50 , supra. 47 Law--6. Faﬂu,e'°f 153. The failure of prosecutions under the Prevention

prosecutions of Food Adulteration Act is often put forth as a matter
deserving serious consideration. And no doubt it is so.
But such failures are not due to a defect in the' penal
provisions or in their being dealt with in special laws.
The causes are to be found elsewhere. 154. Thus, prosecutions may fail because of defective
reports of the Public Analystl or delay in the examination
of samplesi Sometimes, the rules as in force up-to-date
are not brought to the notice of the court? Complications
may also arise Where the procedure prescribed by the Act
for taking samples is not followed''. The' same diﬁiculty
may arise if the provisions of the Act requiring complaint
by a particular person are not complied With5. 155. In this connection, it must also be pointed out, that
higher courts have not failed to impress upon the" magis-
tracy the importance of legislation relating to adulteration
of food, and the need for ensuring that mere technicalities
do not hamper or defeat the cause of justice? CATEGORY 7.---THEFT AND MISAPPROPRIATION or PUBLIC PRO-
FERTY AND FUNDS. Theft and 156. The seventh category of the offences mentioned by
misappro- the Santhanam Committee is--"Theft and misappropria- Priation of tion of public property and funds".
public pro- Eggs and The existng provisions as to these oﬁences are listed

(Category 7). separately7. The offences are mainly dealt with-- (i) in the Indian Penal Code ; (ii) in the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947; and (iii) in special enactments relating to particular
subjects. Transfer to the Indian Penal Code of the provisions
contained in the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947 , is not
practicable, as the Act contains its own rules of evidence
and procedure". 1Cf. the cases cited in State v. Gunjlal, A.I.R. 1964 Pun. 475, 476, 477,
paras. 2 and 6. 157. Transfer to the Indian Penal Code of the provisions Transfer not
of other special enactments under this category does not feasible-
appear to be feasible, as the provisions are a part of the
integrated schemes of the particular enactments. 158. The addition of new offences under this category Addition of
is a matter which need not be considered until any deﬁ- new pro-
ciency in the existing provisions is brought to notice. "'51°"5- 159. We, however, think that the punishment for the I'f°V1S1°c'l'f
theft of public property should be enhanced, so as to PI'O- $2302? or
vide a more stringent check on such thefts. We propose public pm-
an amendment to the Indian Penal Code on the subject1.pertY-
Theft is punishable under the Indian Penal Code (section 379), and aggravated forms thereof have also been dealt
with in the same Code (sections 380, 381). It would not,
therefore, be against the scheme of that Code to place the

proposed provision in that Codez. 160. As regards misappropriation of public property,
the offence, if committed by a public servant, would, in
most cases, fall under section 409 , Indian Penal Code
(Criminal breach of trust by a public servant, or by banker,
merchant or agent). The maximum punishment for that
offence is imprisonment for life or imprisonment of either
description upto ten years, and also ﬁne, which seems to
be sufficiently deterrent. We do not, therefore, propose
any increase in the punishment. 161. One of the comments received by us also states, P°imS ?"8'
that the offence of theft (or misappropriation) of public Egﬁgefm
property is much graver than the same offence in respect '
of property of an individual or company, and should be

adequately punished. CATEGORY 8.---TRAFFICKING IN LICENCES 162. We now come to the eighth category of the offences Traﬂickine
mentioned by the Santhanam Committee, namely, "Traﬁick- g' 1'°°"°°s: 163. The subject has been dealt with in the Report of
the Committee at various places. The Committee has d1s-
cussed the procedure for the scrutiny of applications receiv-
ed under the Industries (Development and Regulation)
Act, 1951 ', and illustrated the unfair practices that may
arise in the absence of ﬁeld veriﬁcation of progress reports,
e.g., the licensee utilising the services of sub-contractors
instead of setting up the factory himself2. The Committee
has made certain recommendations"' regarding import and
export control also. It has observed, that corruption in
that sphere arose from (i) issue of licences or quota certi-
ﬁcates in ﬁctitious names, (ii) issue of licences to actual
users on forged certiﬁcate and without proper scrutiny of
documents, (iii) issue of licences to prospective exporters
on the basis of false or forged orders of foreign suppliers, (iv) theft of blank licences, etc. by the staff and supply of
the same to parties for value, (12) theft of issued licences
by the staff at the time' of the despatch or when returned
by parties for revalidation, etc., and sale to other parties, (vi) applying for licences even after changes in the cons-
titution or ownership of the importer's business, (vii)
trafﬁcking in licences, (viii) applying for licences in the
name of ﬁctitious ﬁrms, (ix) soliciting of licences, etc*.
As regards import licences granted as export incentives,
the Committee was told, that they were transferable and
this caused serious damage to the domestic market and
foreign exchange resources5. (It also referred" to the' mal-
practice of material allowed to be imported for use' in
manufacturing exportable goods being sold for huge pro-
ﬁts, and recommended that such offences should be
punishable with imprisonment of at least 3 years and a
ﬁne which would be twice the market price of the import-
ed goods). 164. The Committee has not suggested any deﬁnition
of traﬁicking. A deﬁnition of "trafficking" suggested in

suggested in one of the comments is, "the outright sale of licenses and

COITIIHCIJIS. permits and allowing any other person besides 'the one
intended, to enjoy the' fruits of such licences and permits". Another comment states, that "trafﬁcking" takes place
when a licence is transferred without the permission of the
competent authority, though such transfers are prohibited
_by law, or when a premium is charged on such transfers
in spite of a prohibition under the law. 'Report of the Santhanam Committee, pages 243 and 245.
'Report of the Santhanam Committee, page 247.
'Report of the Santhanam Committee, pages 247 and 249. __ 4Report of the Santhanam Committee pages 252 t . ' (m), cm), co), (vii), (win, (xv), (xx). <.m'n-9 and (m§I~.§54' "am 7' "°"" 165 It seems to us that the matter can be more con- ;I'ra)f:ic§iql1ﬂgt - _ I , . . . 0
veniently dealt with by a Suitable P1'°V151°n lnfthe 13)" with by
under which the licenses are issued. When fa} 11CeI1S€b1.S Spgcial
issued, a condition can be insertedthat it S1§.lbI10t de enactments-
transferable. Breach of the condition cou e ma e

punishable under the relevant enactment. 166. So far as licenses for importing or exporting goods
are concerned, contravention of a C0ndi'Ci0n in the 11091159
authorising the import or export is an offence under section 5 of the Imports Actl-2-5. And it would appeal',
that under clause 5(2) of the Export (Control) Order, 1962,
it is deemed to be a condition of every licence that the
licensee shall not (except with permission of the licensing
authority, etc.) transfer the license, and that the goods
for the export of which the licence is granted sha1l_be
the licensee's property at the time of export. Similar
provision has been made by clause 5 of the Import (Con-
trol) Order, 1955. This being the position, an unauthorised transfer of
the license ("trafficking") would seem to be already cover-
ed, so far as import and export licenses are concerned'. 167. If there are any practical difficulties in the en-
forcement of the relevant condition in the licence, those
difficulties would not be solved by making a provision in
the Indian Penal Code . 168. We may also state here that, as has been pointed
out in one of the comments received on the proposals
under consideration, the magnitude of the mal-practice of
trafficking may vary with the particular enactment (Le.
the enactment which requires that the activity or opera-
tion or transaction in question should be licensed). For
that reason also, it will be more appropriate to deal with
the matter by a suitable provision in the special enact- 'ment concerned, rather than by a general provision in the Indian Penal Code . If a general provision (prohibiting
traﬂicking) applicable to all licenses and permits is insert-
ed, it might cover even a license or permit which is trans-
ferable under the enactment under which it is issued,
and thus lead to inconsistency in the law. We do not,
therefore, feel inclined to recommend a provision in the Indian Penal Code on the subject. _ 1ThgO§mports and Exports (Control) Act, I947 (18 of 1947) (as amended
in 19 . 2See Best & Co. v. Additional Collector, A.I.R. I965 Cal. 478. 169. In the end, we should emphasise that the problem
of checking crime in general, and of white-collar crimes
in particularl, is a complex one. It is much Wider than
the form and content of the penal law, or the placing of
its provisions. The inhibitions which prevent a person
from committing crime generally may have their origin
in various factors Which contribute to the emergence of
conscience and the creation of a sense of guilta. The
sanctions imposed by the penal law constitute only one
species of those inhibitions. 170. Crime is not a legal problem; it is a social and
economic one. The sanctions which can eﬂfectively operate
to check crime are not legal only. As has been observed"--- 171. When we consider the question of preventing the
commission of a particular class of crimes, the matter
becomes still more complex, because then one has to con-
sider not only the criminal instinct in general, but the
more detailed question as to why the desire' to commit the
crimes of that particular class arises. 172. The Appendices to this Report are intended to fur-
nish information regarding provisions of existing laws
relevant to the subject-matter of this Report, provisions of
the laws of certain other countries which maybe of in-
terest, and similar other material. Some of the Appendices
also seek to analyse, in detail, the scope of certain provi-
sions of existing laws, in order to show how far they cover

'Para. 7, et. seq. supra. 'Cf. Barbara Wooten, Crime and the Criminal Law (The Hamlyn

Lectures, 15th series), (1963), page 23. 'Taft and England, Criminology,' (f96'4) page 275. the offences which, according to the Santhanam Commit-
tee's Report, ought to be covered. It should be stated, that
the Appendices relating to existing laws are illustrative
only, and are not intended to be exhaustive. A tentative draft of the amendments which we propose
in the Indian Penal Code and in the Code of Criminal Pro-
cedure, 1398 is given in two of the Appendices'. 1. J. L. KAPUR----Chairman. 1 2. K. G. DATAR 1 3. s. K. HIRANANDANI L
In Members' 4. T. K. TOPE I 5. RAMA PRASAD MOOKERJEE J

P. M. BAKSHI,

Joint Secretary and Draftsm-an. NEW DELHI; The 11th February, 1966. 'Appendices 31 and 32. 'The post of Special Secretary, Legislative Department and Member
Law Commission has not been ﬁlled up. APPENDIX 1

EXISTING STATUTORY PROVISICNS REGARDING OFFENCES CAL-
CULATED TO PREVENT OR OBSTRUCT THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
OF THE COUNTRY AND ENDANGER ITS ECONOMIC HEALTH_

Acts listed inside---- (1) The Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962).
(3) The Atomic Energy Act, 1962 (33 of 1962).
(3) The Coffee Act, 1942 (7 of 1942). (4) The Imports and Exports (Control) Act, 1947 (18 of 1947). (5) The Essential Commodities Act, 1955 (10 of 1955). (6) The Indian Standards Institution (Certiﬁcation
Marks) Act, 1952 (36 of 1952). (7) The Industries (Development 8: Regulation) Act,
1951 (65 of 1951). (8) The Tea Act, 1953 (9) The Coir Industry Act, 1953 . (10) The Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1947 . (11) The Oilﬁelds (Regulation & Development) Act,
1948 (53 of 1948). (12) The Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 . (13) The Forward Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1952 (14 of 1952). (14) The Mines & Minerals etc. Act, 1957 (67 of
1957)

(15) The Securities Contracts etc. Act, 1956 (42 of
1956). APPENDIX I

 

Name of the Act Section Gist of the Section - Number
(I) (2) (3) 1. The Customs Act, 1962 (52 Without prejudice to any action that may be taken under this Act, if any per- of PI 962).. '

(As to conﬁscation and penal- ties, see sections III and 112
et seq. As to false declaration
see section 132 . son-- (a) is in relation to any goods in any way knowingly concerned in any fraudulent (b)

evasion or attempt at evasion of any duty chargeable thereon or of any
prohibition for the time being imposed under this Act or any other law
for the time being in force with respect to such goods, or

acquires possession of or is in any way concerned in carrying, removing: (As to offences under the Act being regarded as "economic crimes", and
the need for punishing severely such offences, see State v.Kumari
Dhrupati Bhawnani, A.I.R. I965 Bombay 6.) 2. The Atomic Energy Act, 1962 24 The section makes contravention of orders made under sections 14 , 17 and 18 (33 of 1962). punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to 5 years. Section 14 , inter alia, provides that the Central Government may, by order,
prohibit, except under a licence, the production, possession, use, disposal,
export or import of prescribed substances or other minerals, or of any plant
designed for development of atomic energy etc. 3. The Coffee Act, 1942 20 Section 20 provides that no coffee shall be exported from India otherwise than
(7 of 1942). by the Board or under an authorisation granted by the Board, and the pro-
visions of the Sea Customs Act have been made applicable to any violation
of this provision. The Board is constituted under section 4 . Section 21 deals with import of exported coffee. 4. The Imports and Exports 5 Section 5 makes the contravention or attempts at contravention of any order
(Control) Act, 1947 made under the Act punishable with imprisonment for a term which may
(18 of 1947). extend to one year. If any person contravenes or attempts to contravene, or abets a contravention
of, any order made or deemed to have been made under this Act, or any
condition of. a licence granted under any such order, he shall, without pre-
judice to any conﬁscation or penalty to which he may be liable under the

The Essential Commodities 7
Act, 1955 (I0 of 1955) I

The Indian Standards Insti- 13
tution (Certiﬁcation Marks)
Act, 1952 (36 of 1952)- Industries (Development & 24
Regulation) Act, 1951
(65 of 1951)- provisions of the Sea Customs Act, 1878, as applied by sub-section (2) of section 3 , be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to
one year, or with ﬁne, or with both. (As to the need for punishing such offences severely, see State v. Kumari Dhrupati,

A.I.R. I965 Bombay 6). The section makes contravention of orders made under section 3 as punishable

with imprisonment which varies from one year to three years in certain
speciﬁed circumstances and also gives discretion to the court to make an
order imposing a sentence of ﬁne alone. Section 3 gives powers to the
Central Government to control production, supply and distribution of
essential commodities. The section provides penalty for contravention of the provisions of section 5 and section 6 of the Act. Section 5 prohibits improper use of the standard
mark or any colourable imitation thereof. Section 6 prohibits the use
without previous permission of the Institution, of any name resembling the
name of the Indian Standards Institution, etc.

This section makes contravention or attempts at contravention of provisions

of sections IO, 11, 11A, 13(1), 18B and 18G and 29B(2) or direction or order
made thereunder punishable with imprisonment which may extend to 6
months or with ﬁne. Section 3 makes it obligatory for every owner of existing
industrial undertaking to have it registered in the prescribed manner. Section
10 requires registration. Section II prohibits every person from establishing
a new industrial undertaking except under a licence issued by the Central
Government. Section IIA makes it obligatory on every owner of industrial
undertaking to obtain a licence for producing or manufacturing a new article,
Similar provisions are contained in section 13 . Section 24A punishes false statements. _ 'APP'.ENDIX 1 (concld.)

(I) (2) (3)
Industries _(DevelOpment and 18G Section 18G gives powers to the Central Government to control supply,
RegU13U0I1) Act, 1951 (contd.) distribution and prices of certain articles. 8- The Tea; Act, 1953. 3 The section makes the breach of the provision of section 18(i) & (ii) punishable
as if it were an offence under the Customs Act . Section 18 provides that
no consignment of tea shall be exported except under a licence by the Central
Government or the Tea Board. 9. The Coir Industry Act, 1953 . 20 The section makescontravention of the provision of section 12 punishable with
ﬁne which may extend to Rs. 500/-. Section 12 prohibits the export of coir
ﬁbre, coir yarn and coir products except under a licence issued by or on
behalf of the Coir Board. I0. Foreign Exchange Regulation 23 The section makes a person contravening the provisions of' sections 4, 5, 9 or -- Act, 1947. sub--section (2) of section 12 or of any rule, order, direction made therein,
liable to penalty not exceeding three times the value of the foreign exchange
in respect of which contravention has taken place, or Rs. 5,ooo/- whichever
is more, as also punishable upon conviction with imprisonment for a term
which may extend to two years, or with ﬁne, or with both. Contravention
of provisions of section I9 is also punishable with imprisonment for a term
which may extend to two years, or with ﬁne, or with both. Section 4 places
restrictions on persons resident in India on dealing in foreign exchange. Section 5 , inter alia, places restrictions on persons resident in India from mak-
ing any payment to or for the credit of any person resident outside India. Section 9 empowers the Central Government to purchase any foreign exchange

in the 'possession of any person resident in India at a price ﬁxed by the Govern-
ment itself. '

II. The Oilﬁelds (Regulation &
Development) Act, 1948. 12. The Reserve Bank of India Act,
1934 - 32 Section 19 empowers the Central Government to direct owners of foreign ex-
change or foreign securities to make a return thereof to the Reserve Bank
within such a period as may be speciﬁed. The Central Government or the
Reserve Bank may also require any such person to furnish to the Government
or the Bank any information, book or other document as may be required by
the order to be so produced or furnished. Section 9 provides, that the contravention of any rule made under the provisions
of the Act, shall be punishable with imprisonment which may extend to six
months, or with ﬁne which may extend to one thousand rupees, or with both. Section 5 empowers the Central Government to make rules for regulating the

grant of mining leases, or for prohibiting the grant of such leases, in respect
of any mineral oil or any area. Section 6 empowers the Central Government to make rules for the conservation
and development of mineral oils, and, inter alia, for regulating drilling, re-
drilling, deepening, plugging and abandoning of oil wells, and for the limitation

or prohibition of such operations, and for taking of remedial measures to
prevent waste of or damage to oil. The section makes contravention of provision of section 3I as punishable with
ﬁne which may extend to the amount of the bill, hundi, pronote or
engagement in respect whereof the offence is committed. Section 31 prohibits any person in India from drawing, accepting or making or
issuing any bill of exchange in the promissory note or engagement for the
payment of money, payable to bearer on demand. (I) (2)

APPENDIX 1 (ConCld) (3) 13. Forward Contracts (Regulation) 20
Act, 1953

I4. Mines & Minerals ( Regulation & 21 Development) Act, 1957. 15. Security Contracts (Regulation) 23
Act, I956. The section, inter alia, penalises the person who is a member of any
association, other than a recognised association to which a certiﬁcate of
registration has not been granted under the Act. The penalty pro-
vided for the offence is with imprisonment which may extend to one
year, or with ﬁne of not less than Rs. I,ooo/-, or with both. This section makes contravention of provisions of sub-section (1) of section 4 punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend
to six months, or with ﬁne which may extend to one thousand
rupees, or with both. Section 4(1) prohibits any person from undertaking any prospecting or min-
ing operation in any area, except under or in accordance with the terms
and conditions of a prospecting licence, or a mining licence [granted
under the Act. The section makes it an offence for a person to own or keep a place
other than a recognised stock exchange for use for the purposes of
entering into any contracts in contravention of the provisions of the
Act. It further provides penalties for entering into any contract
in contravention or the provisions of sections 13 , 16 , I7 and I9, and
alfor canvassing or advertising for any business connected with con-
tracts without being a member of a recognized stock exchange. 13 Section 13 empowers the Central Government to notify that contracts
other than between members of a recognized stock exchange, shall be illegal
in any area to which the said notiﬁcation may apply. Section 16 empowers
the Government to prohibit contracts to prevent undesirable speculation
in speciﬁed securities. Section 17 empowers the Government to
make it obligatory on persons in areas that may be speciﬁed to take a
licence for dealing in securities. 19 Section 19 prohibits persons from being members of any stock exchange
other than a recognised one for the purposes of assisting in, entering into/or
performing contracts in securities. _, . 33
APPENDIX 2

EXISTING STATUTORY PROVISIONS _REGARDING EVASION OR
AVOIDANCE OF TAX OR DUTY AND THE CONSEQUENT PENALTY
THEREOF. 1. The Indian Penal Code s. 177, 181, 191, 192, 198, 199
read with s. 136 , Income Tax Act, 1961 etc. 2. Indian Stamp Act, 1899 (2 of 1899) ( Section 62 ). 3. The Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944 (I of 1944).
( Section 9 , 17 & 24 ). 4. The Estate Duty Act, 1953 (34 of 1953) Sections 59 and 60 . 5. The Terminal Tax on Railway Passengers Act, 1956 (69 of 1956) (No provision). 6. The Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 (74 of 1956) Sec-
t1ons 9(3), 10, 13(5). 7. The Wealth Tax Act, 1957 (27 of 1957) Sections 17 , 18 , 36 . 8. '11'lée11%'xp§nditure Tax Act, 1957 (29 of 1957) Sections
7 7 3 ' 9. The Gift Tax Act, 1953 (13 of 1953) Sections 16 , 17 , 35. 10. The Income Tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961) Sections 276 , 277 , 273 , 231 . 11. The Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962) Section 135 (This
Act repeals the Sea Customs Act, 1878 and the Land
Customs Act, 1924). 12. Super Proﬁts Tax Act, 1963 (14 of 1963) Sections 10 , 11 , 19 and 22 . 13. The Companies (Proﬁts) Surtax Act, 1964 (7 of 1964) Sections 8 , 20 , 21 , 22 . 1. THE INDIAN PENAL CODE (45 or 1860)

The following sections of the Indian Penal Code are
relevant in connection with evasion of taxes- Section 177

Section 181
[' Read with section
136 , Income Tax- Section 191 , 192 , Act, 1961, and simi-
199 lar provisions in

relating to tax

K other enactments
ation. APPENDIX 2 (contd.) 2. THE INDIAN STAMP ACT, 1899 (2 or 1899) Section 62 .-- Penaity for executing, etc., instrument not
duly stamped. (1) Any person- (a) drawing, making, issuing, endorsing or trans-
ferring or signing otherwise than as a Witness, or pre-
senting for acceptance or payment, or accepting, pay-
ing or receiving payment of, or in any manner nego-
tiating, any bill of exchange payable otherwise than
on demand, or promissory note without the same being
duly stamped; or (b) executing or signing otherwise than as a wit-
ness any other instrument chargeable with duty with-
out the same being duly stamped; or (c) voting or attempting to vote under any proxy
not duly stamped,

shall for every such offence be punishable with ﬁne which
may extend to ﬁve hundred rupees: Provided that, when
any penalty has been paid in respect of any instrument
under section 35 , section 40 or section 61 , the amount of
such penalty shall be allowed in reduction of the ﬁne (if
any) subsequently imposed under this section in respect
of the same instrument upon the person who paid such
penalty; (2) If a share-warrant is issued without being duly
stamped, the company issuing the same, and also every
person who, at the time when it is issued is the managing
director or secretary or other principal officer of the com-
pany, shall be punishably with ﬁne which may extend to
ﬁve hundred rupees. 3. THE CENTRAL EXCISES AND SALT ACT, 1944 (1 OF 1944) Section 9 .--Whoever commits any of the following offen-
ces, namely:--- (b) evades the payment of any duty payable under
this Act, shall for every such oﬁence be punishable
with imprisonment for a term which may extend to
six months and with ﬁne which may extend to two
thousand rupees or with both. Section 17 .--Any owner or occupier of land or any
agent of such owner or occupier in charge of the man-
agement of that land, who wilfully connives at any offence
against the provisions of this Act or of any rules made
thereunder shall for every' such offence be punishable with

'Imprisonment for a term Which may extend to six months,

or with ﬁne which may extend to five hundred rupees, or
with both. 2

47 Law--7. APPENDIX 2 (c0ntd.) Section 24 --When any excisable goods are carried bli-
sea in any vessel other than a vessel of the burden of three;
hundred tons and upwards, the owner and master of Such»
vessel shall each be punishable with imprisonment for 3
term which may extend to six months, or with ﬁne which
may extend to one thousand rupees, or with both. 4. THE ESTATE DUTY ACT. 1953 (34 OF 1953} Section 56 deals with grant of representation. Section 59 .~--P'rope'rty escaping assessment: If the Con-
troller,-- (a) has reason to believe that by reason of the
omission or failure on the part of the person account-
able to submit an account of the estate of the deceased
under section 53 or section 56 or to disclose fully and
truly ail material facts necessary for assessment, any
property chargeable to estate duty has escaped assess-
ment by reason of undervaluation of the property in-
cluded in the account or of omission to include therein
any property which ought to have been included or of
assessment at too low a rate or otherwise, or (b) has, in consequence of any information in his
possession, reason to believe notwithtanding that there
has not been such omission or failure as is referred to
in clause (a) that any property chargeable to estate
duty has escaped assessment, whether by reason of
undervaluation of the property included in the account
or of omission to include therein any property which
ought to have been included, in the or of assessment at
too low a rate or otherwise,

he may at any 'uric, subject to the provisions of section 73A,
require the person accountable to submit an account as
required under section 53 and may proceed to assess or re-
assess such property as if the provisions of section 58 applied thereto. . Section 60 .--Penal'.ty for default or concealment: tion of the Controller under section 55 or section 59 or
has without reasonable cause failed to deliver or sub- mit any of the accounts or statements required under- any of the sections aforesaid within the time allowed'
and in the manner required; or , ,

.<_ 89 APPENDIX 2 (contd.) (b) has without reasonable cause failed to comply
with a notice under sub-section (2) of section 58; or (c) has concealed the particulars of the property
of the deceased or deliberately furnished inaccurate
particulars thereof; or (d) being a company referred to in section 20A
fails without reasonable cause, to pay the amount of
estate duty due from the company under that section
within the time speciﬁed in this behalf,

he or it may, by order in writing, direct that--such person
shall pay by way of pe72al1;y---- (i) in the case referred to in clause (a) or clause (d), in addition to the amount of the estate duty pay-
able by him; a sum not exceeding twice the amount of
such duty, and (ii) in the case referred to in clause (b) or clause
, (cl in addition to the amount of estate duty payable
by him, a sum not exceeding twice the amount of the
estate duty, if any, which would hiive been avoided if
the principal value shown in the account of such person
had been accepted as correct. (2) No order shall be made under sub--section (1) un-
less the person concerned has been given a reasonable
opportunity of being heard. 5. THE TERMINAL TAX ON RAILWAY PASSENGERS ACT. 1956
(ACT 69 or 1956) This Act contains no provision as to evasion or avoid-
ance of Tax. . 6. THE CENTRAL SAI.l~'..S TAX ACT, 1956 (74 or 1956)
Sectzon 9--Levy and collection of tax and penalties; (3) The authorities for the time being empowered to
assess, Collect and enforce payment of any tax under the
general sales tax law of the appropriate State shall, on
behalf of the Government of India and subject to any
rules made under this Act, assess, collect and enforce pay-
ment of any tax, including" any penalty, payable by a
dealer under this Act in the same manner as the tax on
the sale or purchase of goods under the general sales tax
law of the State is assessed, paid and collected; and for
this purpose they may exercise all or any of the powers
they have under the general sales tax law of the State; and
the provisions of such law, including provisions relating
to returns. appeals, reviews, revisions, references, penal-
ties and compounding of offences, shall apply accordingly: when purchasing any class of goods that goods of such
class are covered by his certiﬁcate of registration; or (c) not being a registered dealer, falsely repre-
sents when purchasing goods in the course of inter-
State trade or commerce that he is a registered dealer;
01' (d) after purchasing any goods for any of the
purposes specified in clause _(b) of sub-section (3) of section 8 fails without reasonable excuse. to make
use of the goods for any such purpose; (e) has in his possessio any form prescribed for
the purpose of sub-section T4) of section 8 which has
not been obtained by him or by his principal or by
his agent in accordance with the provisions of this
Act or any rules made thereunder; (f) collects any amount by way of tax in contra-
vention of the provisions contained in section 9A,'

he shall be punishable with simple imprisonment which
may extend to six months, or with ﬁne, or with both; and
when the offence is a continuing oﬁence, with a daily ﬁne
which may extend to fifty rupees for every day during
which the offence continues. Section 13 ,----Pow¢*rs to make rules: 7. THE WEALTH-TAX ACT, 1957 (27 or 1957) Section 17 .----Wealth escaping assessment: If the Wealth
Tax Ofﬁcer -- _(q) has reason ta believe that by 'reason, of the
omission or failure on the part of the assessee to make 91 APPENDIX 2 (contd.)

a return of his net wealth under section 14 for any
assessment year or to disclose fully and truly all
material facts necessary for his assessment for that
year, the net wealth chargeable to tax has escaped
assessment for that year, whether by reason of under-
assessment or assessment at too low a rate or other-
wise; or (b) has, ;n consequence of any information in his
possession, reason to believe, notwithstanding that
there has been no such omission or failure as is re-
ferred to in clause (a), that net wealth chargeable to
tax has escaped qssessment for that year, whether by
reason of under-assessment or assessment at too low a
rate or otherwise he may, in cases falling under clause (a) at any time Within eight years and in cases falling
under clause (b) at any time within four years of the
end of that assessment year, serve on the assessee a
notice containing all or any of the requirements which
may be included in a notice under sub-section (2) of section 14 , and may proceed to assess or reassess such
net wealth, and the provisions of this Act shall, so
far as may be, apply as if the notice had issued under
that sub-section. Section l8.--Penalty for concealment: missioner, Commissioner or Appellate Tribunal in the
course of any proceedings under this Act is satisﬁed that
any person -- (:1) has without reasonable cause failed to furnish
the return of his net weal-th which he is required to
furnish under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) of
section 14 or section 17 or has without reasonable cause
failed to furnish it Within the time allowed and in the
manner required; or (b) has without reasonable cause failed to comply
with a notice under sub-section (2) or sub-section (4)
of section 16; or (c) has concealed the particulars of his 'assets or
deliberately furnished inaccurate particulars of his
assets or debts, '

he or it may, by order in writing direct that such person
shall pay by way of penalty- _(i) in the case referred to in clause (a), in addition
to the amount of Wea'1'th--tax payable by him, a sum not
exgeeding one-and-a-half tiines the amount of such tax,
an

(it) in the case referfed to in clause (b) or clause
(0) in addition to the' amount of Wealth-tax payable
by him, a sum not exceeding one:-and-a-half timesihthe
amount of the tax, if any, which would have been 92 APPENDIX 2 (contd.)

avoided if the net wealth returned by such person had
oeen accepted as correct. (2) No order shall be made under sub-section (1) unless
the person concerned has been given reasonable opportu-
nity of being heard. (3) No prosecution for an offence under this Act shall
be instituted in respect of the same facts in relation to
which a penalty has been imposed under this section. (4) The Wealth-tax Officer shall not impose any penalty
under this section without the previous approval of the
Inspecting Assistant Commissioner of Wealth-tax. Section 36- -Pmsecuti0ns: section (2) or sub-section (4) of section 16 such
accounts, records and documents as are referred to

in the notice; (c) to furnish within the time specified any
statement or information which such person is
bound to furnish to the Wealth-tax Officer under section 38 ; he shall, on conviction before a magistrate, be punish-
able with ﬁne which may extend to ten rupees for every
day during which the default continues. (2) If a person makes a statement in a veriﬁcation
mentioned in section 14 or section 23 or section 24 or sec-
tion 26 which is false, and which he either knows or
believes to be false, or does not believe to be true, he
shall bepunishable with simple imprisonment which
may extend to one year, or with fine which may extend
to one thousand rupees, or with both. (3) A person shall not be proceeded against for an
offence under this section except at the instance of the

Commissioner. (4) The Commissioner may either before or after the
institution of proceedings compound any such oﬁence. Ea3planatéon.----For the purposes of this section, "Magis-
trate" means a Presidency Magistrate, a Magistrate of
the ﬁrst class or a Magistrate of the second class specially
empowered by the Central Government to try offences
under this Act. ' 93 APPENDIX 2 (contd.) 8. THE EXPENDITURE TAX ACT, 1957 (29 or 1957) Section 16 .--E3cpendi.tu're escaping assessment: assessment or assessment at too low a rate or other-
wise; or (b) has in consequence of any information in his
possession reason to believe, notwithstanding that
there has been no such omission or failure as is refer-
red to in clause (a), that the expenditure chargeable
to tax has escaped assessment for any assessment year,
whether by reason of under-assessment or assessment
at too low a rate or otherwise,
he may, in cases falling under clause (a) at any time
within eight years and in cases falling under clause (b) at
any time within four years of the end of that assessment
year, serve on the assessee a notice containing all or any of
the requirements which may be included in a notice under
sub-section (2) of section 13 , and may proceed to assess or
reassess such expenditure, and the provisions of this Act
shall, so far as may be, apply as if the notice had issued
under that sub-section. Section 17 .--Penalty for concealment: ture or deliberately furnished inaccurate particulars
thereof, he, may by order in writing direct that such
person shall pay by way of penalty. . .. Section 32 .-Prosecutions: APPENDIX 2 (contd.) (b) to produce, or cause to be produced on or
before the date mentioned in any notice under sub-
section (2) or sub-section (4) of section 15 such
accounts, records and documents as are referred to

in the notice; (c) to furnish within the time speciﬁed any states
ment or information which such person is bound to
furnish to the Expenditure-tax Oiﬁcer under section
34 ; he shall, on conviction before a Magistrate, be punishable
with ﬁne which may extend to ten rupees for every day
during which the default continues. (2) If a person makes a statement in a veriﬁcation
mentioned in section 13 , section 21 , section 22 , or section
24 , which is false, and which he either knows or believes
to be false, or does not believe to be true, he shall be
punishable with simple imprisonment which may extend
to one year or with ﬁne which may extend to one thousand
rupees or with both. (3) A person shall not be proceeded against for an
offence under this section except at the instance of the
Commissioner. (4) The Commissioner may either before or after the
institution of proceedings compound any such oﬁence. Eacpla/nation.--For_the purposes of this section "Magis-
trate" means a Presidency Magistrate, a Magistrate of the
ﬁrst class, or a Magistrate of the second class specially em-
plowezed by the Central Government to try offences under

IS ic . 9. THE GIFT-TAX Aer, 1958 (1.8 or 1958) Section 16 .--Gift escaping assessment: . (a) has reason to believe. that by reason of omis-
sion or failure on the part of an assessee to make a
return under section 13 ' for any assessment year or'to
disclose fully and truly all. material facts necessary
for his assessment for that year, any taxable gift has
escaped assessment for than year', whether by reason
of under-assessment or assessment at too Low 3 rate or
otherwise; or » (b), has, in consequence of any information in his
possession, reason to_bb1ieize, notwithstanding that
there has been no such omission or failure as is refer_-
red to in clause (a), that any taxable gift has escaped
assessment for any year,-_vWhet_her by reason of under- 3.S._S.e.55ment 01' assessrqent at too low a. rate or other-- wise; APPENDIX 2 (contd.)

he may, in cases falling under clause (a) at any time
within eight years and in cases falling under clause (b) at
any time within four years of the end of that assessment
year, serve on the assessee a notice containing all or any of
the requirements which may be included in a notice under
sub-section (2) of section 13 , and may proceed to assess or
reassess any taxable gift which has escaped assessment,
and the provisions of this Act shall, so far as may be,
apply as if the notice had issued under that sub-section. (2) Nothing containing in this section limiting the time
within which any proceedings for assessment or re-assess-
ment may be commenced shall apply to an assessment or
re-assessment to be made on the assessee or any person in
consequence of or to give effect to any ﬁnding or direction
contained in an order under section 22 , section 23 , section
24 , section 26 or section 28 . Section l7.--Penalty for default and Concealment. (1) If the Gift-tax Officer, Appellate Assistant Com-
missioner, Commissioner or Appellate Tribunal, in the

course of any proceedings under this Act, is satisﬁed that
any person-- (a) has without reasonable cause failed to furnish
the return which he is required to furnish under sub-
section (1) or sub-section (2) of section 13, or section
16 or has without reasonable cause failed to furnish it

within the time allowed and in the manner required;
or (b) has without reasonable cause failed to comply
with a notice under sub-section (2) or sub-section (4)
of section 15; or

(C) has concealed the particulars of any gift or- deliberately furnished inaccurate particulars thereof,
he or It may, by order in writing, direct that such person
shall pay by way of penalty--- (11) in the case referred to in clause ((1'), in addi-
tion to the amount of gift-tax payable by him, a sum

not exceeding one and a half times the amount of such
tax, and V (ii) in the case referred to in clause (b) or clause (c), in addition to the amount of gift-tax payable by
him, a sum not exceeding one and a half times the
amount of the tax, if any, which would have been
avoided if the return made by such person under sec-
t10n 1,3, S€C'€i0n 14'. or section 16 , as the case' may be,
had been accepted as correct. (2) No order shall be made under sub-section (1) unless

the person co'ncerned has been given a reasonable oppor- - tunity of being' heard. APPENDIX 2 (contd.)

(3) No prosecution for an offence under this Act shall
be instituted in respect of the same facts in relation to
which a penalty has been imposed under this section. (4) The Gift-tax Oﬂicer shall not impose any penalty
under this section without the previous approval of the
Inspecting Assistant Commissioner of Gift-tax. Sectirm 35.-----Pr0secution. (1) If any person fails without reasonable cause-- (a) to furnish in due time any return of gifts
under this Act; (b) to produce, or cause to be produced. on or
before the date mentioned in any notice under sub-
section (2) or sub-section (4) of section 15 , such
accounts, records and documents as are referred to in
the notice; (c) to furnish within the time specified any state-
ment or information which such person is bound to
furnish to the Gift--tax Officer under section 37 ,

he shall, on conviction before a Magistrate, be punishable
with ﬁne which may extend to rupees ten for every day
during which the default continues. (2) If a person makes a statement in a veriﬁcation in
any return of gifts furnished under this Act or in a veriﬁ-
cation mentioned in sections 22 , 23 or 25 which is false, and
which he either knows or believes to be false, or does not
believe to be true, he shall onconviction before a Magis-
trate, be punishable with simple imprisonment which may
extend to one year, or With ﬁne which may extend to
rupees one thousand or with both,

(3) A person shall not be proceeded against for an
offence under this section except at the instance of the
Commissioner. Explanation

For the purposes of this section "Magistrate" means a
Presidency Magistrate; a Magistrate of the first class or a
Magistrate of the second class specially empowered by the
Central Government to try offences under this Act. 10. THE INCOME-TAX ACT, 1961 (43 or 1961)

Section 276.--Failure to make payments or deliver returns
or statements or allow inspection: APPENDIX 2 (contd.) (b) to furnish in due time any of the returns or
statements mentioned in section 133 , sub-section (2) of section 139 , section 206, section 285 or section 286; (c) to produce, or cause to be produced, On Or
before the date mentioned in any notice under sub-
section (1) of section 142 ,. such accounts and docu-
ments as are referred to in the notice; (d) to deduct and pay tax as required by the pro-
visions of Chapter XVII-B or under sub-section (2) of
section 226; or (e) to furnish a certiﬁcate required by section 203,
he shall be punishable with ﬁne which may extend to
ten rupees for every day during which the default
continues. As to penalties imposable by Income Tax Officers, see Sections 270 to 274 Income Tax Act, 1961. Section 2 '77.----False statement in declaration, (As amended
by section 41 of the, Finance Act, 1964--Act
5 of 1964): ingly concerned in any fraudulent evasion" or attempt
at evasion of any duty chargeable thereon or of any
prohibition for the time being imposed under this Act
or any other law for the time being in force with res-
pect to such goods, or (b) acquires possession of or is in any way con-
cerned in carrying, removing, depositing, harbouring,
keeping, concealing, selling or purchasing or in any
other manner dealing with any goods which he knows
or has reason to believe are liable to conﬁscation
under section 111 ,

he shall be punishable- (i) in the case of an offence relating to any of
the goods to which section 123 applies and the market
price whereof exceeds one lakh of rupees, with im-
prisonment for a term which may extend to ﬁve years
and with ﬁne: 12. SUPER PROFITS TAX ACT, 1963 (14 or 1963) Sections 10 , 19 , 21 and 22 may be seen. 13. THE COMPANIES (PROFITS) SURTAX ACT, 1964 (7 or 1964) Section 8 .---Proﬁts escaping assessment: quence of information in his possession reason to
believe that chargeable proﬁts assessable for any
assessment year have escaped assessment or have been
under-assessed or assessed at too low a rate or have
been the subject of excessive relief under this Act,

he may, in cases falling under clause (at at any time, and
in cases falling under clause (b) at any time within four
years of the end of that assessment year, serve on the
assessee a notice containing all or any of the requirements
which may be included in a notice under section 5 , and
may proceed to assess or re-assess the amount chargeable
to surtax, and the provisions of this Act, shall, so far as
may be, apply as if the notice were a notice issued under
that section. Section g'0t--Failure to deliver returns etc.

If any person fails without reasonable cause to furnish
in due time any return under sub-section (2) of section 5 ,
or to produce, or cause to be produced, any accounts or
documents required to be produced under section 6 , he
shall be punishable with fine which may extend to ﬁve
hundred rupees. and with a further ﬁne which may ex-
tend to ten rupees for every day during which the default
continues. Section 2l.--False statements : tains for himself or for any other person, any valu-
able or any other pecuniary advantage, he shall be
deemed to have committed the offence of "criminal mis-
conduct in the discharge of his duties" as deﬁned in section 5(I)(d) and shall be punishable under section
5(2) with imprisonment for a term which
shall not be less than one year, but which may extend
to 7 years, and shall also be liable to ﬁne; provided
that the court may, for any special. reasons recorded
in writing, impose a sentence of imprisonment of less
than one year. Public servant unlawfully engaging in trade. Public servant unlawfully buying or bidding for pro~
perty. Public servant disobeying directions of the law with intent
to save person from punishment or property from
forfeiture, is liable to imprisonment which may
extend to two years, or with ﬁne, or with both. Public servant framing incorrect record or writing with
intent to save person from punishment or property
from forfeiture. OOI 3. The Indian Post Otﬁce Act, 1898 (6 of

1898). M219 (vi)22o (vii)221 (viii)222

( ix)22 5A (i)54(c) (iv)56

Public servant in judicial proceeding corruptly making
report, order, verdict or decision which he knows is
contrary to law. Whoever, having legal authority to commit persons for
trial or to conﬁnement, or to keep persons for con-
ﬁnement, corruptly or maliciously commits any person
for trial or conﬁnement or keeps any person in confine-
ment in the exercise of that authority, knowing that in
so doing, he is acting contrary to law, is punishable
with imprisonment which may extend to seven years,
or with ﬁne, or with both. Intentional omission to apprehend on the part of public
servant bound to apprehend. Intentional omission to apprehend on the part of the
public servant, bound to apprehend person under
sentence or lawfully committed. Omission to apprehend, or sufferance of escape on part
of public servant, in cases not otherwise provided for
in the Indian Penal Code . Whoever, being an oﬂicer of the Post Oﬂice, being en-
trusted with the delivery of any postal article, know-
ingly demands or receives any sum of money in
respect of the postage thereto which is not chargeable
under this Act, shall be punishable with imprisonment
for a term which may extend to two years, and shall
also be punishable with ﬁne. An Officer of the Post Oﬂice, who sends by post, or
puts into any mail bag, any postal article"'upon'jwhich
postage has not been paid or '.'charged in the manner
prescribed by this Act, intending thereby to defraud

I01

APPENDIX 3 (contd.)

I 2

Thandian Post Office Act, 1898 (6 of 1898)» i'ii)56 ---c0ntd. (iii)6o 4. I' he Prison Act, 1894 (9 of 1894) 42 (later part)

the Government of the postage on such postal article,
is made punishable with imprisonment for a term
which may extend to two years, and is also made
punishable with ﬁne. Whoever, being appointed to sell postage stamps -- (:2) takes from any purchaser for any postage stamp or
quantity of postage stamps, a price higher than
that ﬁxed by any rule made under section 16(3)(a),
shall be punishable with imprisonment for
a term which may extend to six months, or with
ﬁne which may extend to Rs. 200/-, or with both;
or (b) commits a breach of any other rule made under sec-
tion 16 (such as regarding ﬁxation of price of
postage stamps, regulating the custody, supply
and sale of postage stamps and prescribing the
duties and remunerations of persons selling pos-
tage stamps etc. etc.), shall be punishable with
ﬁne which may extend to Rs. 200/-. An oﬂicer of a prison who, contrary to any rule under section 5940f the Prisons Act, knowingly suﬂers any
prohibited article to be introduced into or remove
from any prison, to be possessed by any prisoner, or
to be supplied to any person outside the limits of
the prison, or communicates or attempts to commu-
nicate with any person or abets in such an offence,
is made liable to imprisonment for a term not ex-
ceeding six months, or to ﬁne not exceeding rupees
zoo/-, or to both. '

Z01

'3'-MVI Li? 5. The Reformatory Schools Act, 1897 (8 of 1897). 6. The Income-Tax Act, 1961 (43 of 196i)

.7. The Customs Ac_t,_ i962 (52.of 1962);, _ ,-'3 Section 27 (later
part). Section 280 read with A section 137(2) . (1) 1332(1) If

an 139(2) (iii) 136(3),

Any oﬂicer or person incharge of a reformatory school

who, contrary to any rule made under section 26 01
this Act, knowingly suifers any prohibited article' 'to
be introduced into or removed from any reformatory
school or contrary to any such rule, communicates
or attempts to communicate with any youthful
offender outside the limits of the reformatory'sch_ool
or abets in such offence; is made liable to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding six months,-or with'ﬁne?I.1ot
exceeding Rs. 220/--, or to both. public servant who discloses any particulars, the
disclosure of which is prohibited by section 1137,' is'
made punishable with imprisonmentwhich _' may iex-'3
tend to six months, and also to ﬁne. ' 
any oﬂicer of Customs enters into or acquiescesyifi
any agreement to do, abstain from doing, permits,
conceals or connives at any act or thing whereby any
duty of customs leviable on any goods or things' pro-
hibited for the time being, enforced under this Act,'
may be evaded, he is made punishable with imprison'-
ment for a term which may extend to two years', or
with ﬁne or with both. * 

if any officer of Customs corruptly requires any 'person: I4. The Gift Tax Act, 1958 (18 of 1958)

The provisions of section 54 of the old 'Indian Income-
tax Act, 1922 which made penal the disclosure by
any public servant of any particulars contained in
any statement made or return furnished or accounts
or documents produced under the provisions of that
Act or in any evidence given or aﬂidavit or deposition
made in the course of any such proceeding under
that Act or in any record of any assessment proceed-
ing or any proceeding relating to the recovery on
demand prepared for the purposes of that Act, had
been made applicable to the Estate Duty Act , I
1953-

42(t) This is similar to section 80 of the Estate Duty
Act and makes the provisions of section 54 of the (old) Indian Income-tax Act, 13922 applicable
to this Act. 38(1) This is similar to section 80 of the Estate Duty
Act and makes the provisions cf section 54 of the old Indian Income-tax Act , n922 applicable
to this Act. »4l,(&'7) This is similar to section 80 of the Estate Duty

Act and makes the provisions of section 54 of the old Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 applicable
to this Act. ' S 7 APPENDIX 4

EXISTING STATUTORY PROVISIONS REGARDING OFFENCES IN THE NATURE 
BREACHES OF CONTRACTS RESULTING IN DELIVERY OF GOODS NOT ACCORDING

TO SPECIFICATIONS. There are no direct provisions penalising such breaches of contracts for
delivery. But these may be noted:---- Section 420, Penal Code ---- Punishes "cheating". Rule 125(3)(dd), Defence of Authorises the making by the Govern-
India Rules, 1962. ment of an order for securing the pro-
duction, manufacture, supply or sale,
according to the prescribed standards
and speciﬁcations of any article or
thing which appears to the Govern- ment as essential to any of the pur- poses spcciﬁed in Rule 125(2). The various enactments relating These would be relevant for the use of
to weights and measures (listed false weights or measures.
in the Second Schedule to the
Standards of Weights and Mea- sures Act, I966). Section 5 , Indian _ Standards This would be relevant for goods falsely

Institution Act, 1952 read with bearing the standard mark. Iection 13. See also the Agri- cultural Produce (Grading and

Marketing) Act, 1937 and the Drugs Act, 1940 . '. Sn B1nwariLal-v.Staze A.'I.R. I963 S.C. 162. at é" v .. m w. A .: cences, permits or otherwise the distribu-
tjon, transport, disposal, possession of
any such article; for prohibiting the with-
Vrayygal from sale of any such article or
class thereof ordinarily kept for sale ; for
requiring any person manufacturing, pro-
ducing or holding in stock any such article
to sell the whole or part of the article to
such persons as may be speciﬁed in the
.or.dcr;_ for requiring ex.h.ib_i_I.i9.I! of Q35
P|'iC.€t11§t etc- 3950 (26 of 1959). 9 1934 Section 4 empowers the Chief Commissioner
to ﬁx, in respect of any drug, the maxi-
mum price or rate to be charged by a dealer
or a producer; the maximum quantity
which may, at any time, be possessed by
a dealer or a producer. Section 5 prohibits sale of such drugs at a
price higher than the ﬁxed rate or to hold
more than the quantity of the drugs ex-
ceeding the maximum quantity ﬁxed by
the Chief Commissioner under section 4 . Section 7 requires that excess stocks
should be reported to the Chief Com-
missioner. Section 8 prohibits the refusal to sell within
the quantity prescribed. Section 3 empowers the State Government
to declare any area to be controlled area,
ﬁx a minimum or maximum price of su- 85:11.' 03."? etc- Section I3(t) prescribes that if

any one V{.1018.I§a the provision
of the Acts shall. be punlahe
able with imprisonment for a
term which may extend to 3
years, or with ﬁne, or with
both. Section 13(2) further empowers

the competent Court to order
the forfeiture. Section 5 states that whoemg

pu_rcha§és su/ cane atpa knot
price than t_ 'I: one. prescribed. shall be punished with ﬁne
which may extend to R: APPENDIX 6

EXISTING STATUTORY PROVISIONS RELATING TO ADULTERATION OF
FOOD AND DRUGS 1. Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860)

Section Marginal note Relevant text

272 Adulteration of food or Whoever adulterates any article of food
drink intended for sale. or drink, so as to make such article
noxious as food or drink, intending
to sell such article as food or drink,
or knowing it to be likely that the
same will be sold as food or drink,
shall be punished with imprisonment
of either description for a term which
may extend to six months, or with
ﬁne which may extend to one thou- sand rupees, or with both. 273 Sale of noxious food or Whoever sells, or offers or exposes for
drink. sale, as food or drink, any article which

has been rendered or «has become

noxious, or is in' a state unﬁt for

food or drink, 'knowing or having

reason to be1_ieve,,thatathe~asame is

noxious as fo6d-- or drink,'shall~be

punished with imprisonment of either

description for a term which may

extend to 6 months or with ﬁne which
may _extend to one thousand rupees,
or with both. - 274 Adulteration of drugs. Whoever adulterates any drug or ma-
dical preparation in such a man' r
as to lessen" the efficacy or cha e
the operation of such durg or mediggl
preparation, or to make it noxioﬁs,
intending that it shall be sold 751'
used for, any medicinal purposeﬁgs;-if
it had not undergone such ad§_té"r-
ation, shall 'be punished with~i1§--
prisonment - of either descriﬁiii
for a term which may extend to:§§
months, or with ﬁne which ;;m'ay
extend to one thousand rupeeg7"_§r
with both. i - 4. e: Whether by himself or by any
person on his behalf imports
into India or manufactures for
sale, or stores, sell: or distribute: ful for the court before which the
second or subsequent conviction
takes place to cause the offender's
name and lace of residence, the
oﬁence and the penalty imposed to be
published at the offender's expense

in such newspapers or in such other A

manner as the court may direct. The expenses of such publication
shall be deemed to be part of the cost
attending the conviction and shall
be recoverable in the 'same manner
as a ﬁne. (I) Wherever an offence under this Act

has been committed by a company
every person who at the time the
offence was committed was in charge
of, and was responsible to the
company for the conduct of 111:. bnsineesofthe company,-in

'APPENDIX <§€(E£>£§tii."}

Section Marginal note Relevant text
17 Offences by " as the company,' shall be deemed
'(contd.) companies to be guilty of the offence and
(comd.) _. shall be liable to be proceeded

against and punished accordingly: tained in sub--section (1) where an
offence under this Act has been
committed by a company and it is
proved that the offence has been
committed with the consent or
connivance of, or is attributable
to any neglect on the part of, any
director, manager, secretary or
other oﬂicer of the company, such
director, manager, secretary or
other oﬂicer shall be liable to be
proceeded against and punished

.~ . accordingly. Explanation--For the
 purposes of this section---- (a) "Company" means any body
corporate, and includes
a ﬁrm or other association
of individuals ; and (b) "director" in relation to
' a ﬁrm means a partner in
the ﬁrm. 1'8 Forfeiture of property. Where any person has been convicted
underthis Act for the contravention of
any of the provisions of this Act or
of any rule thereunder, the article of
food in respect of which the contra-
vention has been committed may be

 1"': _'.i 4 . Z7." : forfeited to the Government. APPENDIX 6 _-(contd.) 3. Dangerous Drugs Act, 1930
(2 of 1930)

Section Marginal note

Relevant text

6 Control of Central Govem-- (I) No one shall manufacture any manu- ment over manufacture
of manufactured drugs. 12 Punishment for contra- vention of section 6 . 16 Enhanced punishment
for certain offences af- ter previous conviction. 47 LaW--9. (2) The

factured drug, other than prepared
opium, save in accordance with rules
made under sub-section (2) and with
the conditions of any licence for
that purpose which he may be re- quired to obtain under those rules. Central Government may
make rules permitting and regula~
ting the manufacture of manufac- tured drugs, other than prepared
opium, and such rules may prescribe
the form and conditions of licences
for such manufacture, the autho- rities, by which such licences may
be granted and the fees that may be
charged therefor, and any other
matter requisite to render effective
the control of the Central Govem- ment over such manufacture. (3) Nothing in this section shall apply

to the» manufacture of medicinal
opium.or of preparations containing
.m0fPhlI1€, diacetylmorphine or co-
caine from materials which the
maker is lawfully entitled to possess. Whoever, in contravention of section

6 , or any rule made under that section,
or any condition of a licence granted
thereunder, manufactures any manu-
factured drug, shall be punishable
with imprisonment which may extend
to three years, with or without ﬁne. Whoever, having been convicted of an

offence punishable under section Io,
section 12, section 13, or section 14,
is guilty of any offence punishable
under any of those sections, shall be
subject for every such' subsequent
olfence to imprisonment which may
efitend to four years, with or without
e. APP'ENbrx '6 '(cdntd.) 4. Act, £857
(13 of 1857)

Section Marginal note Rielevant text

fit Conﬁscation of adulterated When opium delivered by a cultivator
opium. either to a receiving oﬂicer, or at
the sadar factory, is suspected of
being adulterated with any foreign
substance it shall be immediately
sealed up pending examination by
the Opium Examiner, and notice
of such intended examination shall
be given to the cultivator. If upon such examination the opium
shall be found to be so adulterated
the Agent on the report of the Exa- miner may order that it be conﬁscat-
ed, and the order of the Agent shall
be ﬁnal and not open to question
in any Court. 5. Drugs (Control) Act, 1950 (26 of 1950)
None. 6. Poisons Act, 1919 (12 of 1919)

None. 7. Drugs Act, 1940 (23 of 194°) -:2 Power of Central Govern- (I) The Central Government may, after
ment to make rules. consultation with the Board and

after previous publication by notiﬁca- tion in the Official Gazette, make

rules for the purpose of giving effect

to the provisions of this Chapter : , 121 .. APPENDIX B (c'o'ntd'.)

Section mal note Relevant text
52' Power of Central Govern- (c) xxx xxx xxx
(contd.) ment to make rules (contd.) (d) xxx xxx xxx (e) xxx xxx xxx (f) xxx xxx xxx

'/ (g) xxx xxx xxx (h) xxx xxx xxx

(1') xxx xxx xxx (j) xxx xxx xxx

13 Offences . (k) prescribe the conditions to be
observed in the packing in bot- tles, packages or other contai- ners, of imported drugs; (1) xxx xxx xxx

(74) prescribe the maximum propor-
tion of any poisonous substance
which may be added to or contain- ed in any imported drugs, prohibit
the import of any drug in which
that proportion is exceeded, and
specify substances which shall
be deemed to be poisonous for
the purposes of this Chapter and
the rules made thereunder; (n) xxx xxx xxx
(0) xxx xxx xxx

(1) Whoever contravenes any of the

provisions of this Chapter or of any
rule made thereunder shall, in ad- dition to any penalty to which he
may be liable under the provision of
section II, be punishable with im- prisonment which may extend to
one year, or with ﬁne which may
extend to ﬁve hundred rupees, or
with both. (2) Whoever, having been convicted

under sub-section (1), is again con-
victed under that sub-section shall,
in addition to any penalty as afore-
said, be punishable with imprison-
ment which may extend to two years,
or with ﬁne which may extend to
one thousand rupees, or with both. (NOTE :--Section- II relates to powers

of Customs Oﬂicers under
Sea Customs Act, 1978). «

I22

APPENDHIFE 6 (contd.)

K 
's

\
Section Marginal note Relevant text '~~.,'
I4 Conﬁscation . . Where any olfence punishable under section 13 has been Committed, the
consignment of the drugs in respect
of which the offence has been com- mitted shall be liable to conﬁsca- tion. 17 Misbranded drugs . For the purposes of this Chapter 21 drug
shall be deemed to be misbranded-- (a) if it is an imitation of, or substi--
tute for, or resembles in a manner
likely to deceive, another drug
or bears upon it or upon its label
or container the name of another
drug, unless it is plainly and con- spicuously markcd so as to re veal
its true character and its lack
of identity with such other drug; or (b) if it purports to be the product of a
place or country of which it is
not truly a product ; or (c) if it is sold, or offered or exposed
for sale, under a name which be- longs to another drug ; or (d) if it is so coloured, coated, powdered
or polished that damage is con- cealed, or if it is made to appear
of better or greater therapeutic
value than it really is ; or (e) if it is not labelled in the pres-
cribed manner 5 or (f) if its label or container or anything
accompanying the drug bears any
statement, design or device which
makes any false claim for the drug
or which is false or misleading in
any particular ; or (g) if the label or container bears the
name of an individual or company
purporting to be the manufacturer
or producer of the drug which
individual or company is ﬁcti- tious or does not exist. APPENDIX 6 (contd.)

Section Marginal note Relevant text

18 Prohibition of manufac- From such date as may be ﬁxed by the
ture and sale of certain State Government by notiﬁcation in
drugs. the Oﬂicial Gazette in this be- half, no person shall himself or by
any other person on his behalf- (a) manufacture for sale, or sell, or
stock or Cxhlblt for sale, or dis- tribute---- (2') any drug which is not of stan- dard quality; (ii) any misbranded drug; (iii) any patent or proprietary medi-
cine unless there is displayed in
the prescribed manner on the
label or container thereof the
true formula or list of ingre- dients contained in it in a
manner readily intelligible to
the members of the medical
profession; (iv) any drug which by means of any
statement, design or device ac- companying it or by any other
means, purports or claims to
prevent, cure or mitigate any
such disease or ailment, or to
have any such other effect as
may be prescribed; (12) any drug, in contravention of any
of the provisions of this Chap- ter or any rule made there- under; (b) sell, or stock, or exhibit for sale, or
distribute any drug which has
been imported or manufactured
in contravention of any of the pro- visions of this Act or any rule made
thereunder; (C) It at it at 1: Relevant text

Whoever himself or by any other person
on his behalf manufactures for sale,
sells, stocks or exhibits for sale or dis- tributes any drug- (a) deemed to be misbranded under
clause (a), clause (12), clause (c),
clause (d), clause (f) or clause (g)
of section 17 shall be punishable
with imprisonment for a term
which shall not be less than' one
year, but which may extend to three
years and shall also be liable to
ﬁne: ltjeng to ﬁve hundred rupees, or with

Ot . (2) Whoever applies or permits to be
i applied to any drug sold, or stocked
or exhibited for sale, by him, whether
on the container or label or in any
other manner, a warranty given in
respect of any other drug, shall be pu-
nishable with imprisonment which
may extend to one year, or with ﬁne
which may extend to ﬁve hundred
rupees, or with both. APPENDIX 6 (contd.)

S ection Marginal note R61€V3ﬂt text
30 Penalty for subsequent (I);Whoever, having been convicted of an
offences. offence--- (a) under clause (a) of section 27 is
again convicted of an offence under
that clause, shall be punishable
with imprisonment for a term
which shall not be less than two
years but which may extend to
ﬁve years and shall also be liable
to ﬁne. Provided that the Court may, for any
special reasons to be recorded in
writing, impose a sentence of less
than two years; (b) under clase (12) of section 27 , is
again convicted of an offence under
that clause shall be punishable
with imprisonment for a term
which may extend to ﬁve years, or
with ﬁne, or with both. (2) Whoever, having been convicted
_of an offence under section 28 or sec-
tion 29 is again convicted of an
offence under the same section shall
be punishable with imprisonment
which may extend to two years, or
with ﬁne, or with both. (NoT1=..---- Section 29 deals with penalty
for use of Govt. analysis report
for advertising). 31 Conﬁscation (I) Where any person has been con-
victed under this Chapter for con- travening any such provision of this
Chapter or any rule made thereunder
as may be speciﬁed by rule made in
this behalf, the stock of the drug in
respect of which the contravention has
been made shall be liable to con- ﬁscation. (2) Without prejudice to the provisions
contained in sub--section (1), any
drug in respect of which the Court is
satisﬁed, on the application of an
Inspector or otherwise and after such
inquiry as may be necessary, that
the drug is not of standard quality
or is a misbranded drug, shall be
liable to conﬁscation. APPENDIX 6 (contd.)

Section Marginal note Relevant text

32 Cognizance of oﬁences (I) No prosecution under this Chapter
shall be instituted except by an Ins-
pector. (2) No Court inferior to that of a Pre-
sidency Magistrate or of a Magistrate
of the ﬁrst class shall try an offence
punishable under this Chapter. (3) Nothing contained in this Chapter
shall be deemed to prevent any per- son from being prosecuted under any
other law for any act or omission
which constitutes an offence against
this Chapter. '

34 Offences by companies Same as section 17 of Food Adulteration
Act, 1964. 35 Publication of sentence (I) If any person is convicted of an
passed under this Act. offence under this Act, it shall be
lawful for the Court before which the
conviction takes place to cause the-
oﬂ"ender's name, place of residence,
the offence of which he has been
convicted and the penalty which has
been inﬂicted upon him, to be pub- lished at the expense of such person
in such newspapers or in such other
manner as the Court may direct. (2) The expenses of such publication
shall be deemed to form part of the
costs relating to the conviction and
shall be recoverable in the same
manner as those costs are recover- able. APPENDIX

EXISTING STATUTORY PROVISIONS AS TO THEFT AND MISAPPROPRIATION OF PUBLIC PROPERTY AND FUNDS

The Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947

Name of the Act Section Gist of the section Penalty
number
(I) (2) (3) (4)
I. The Prevention of Corruption 5 Section 5(I)(c) provides that a public ser-- Section 5(2) punishes such a

V Act, 1947 (2 of 1947). vant will be considered to have com- mitted the offence or criminal misconduct
if he dishonestly or fraudulently mis-
appropriates or otherwise converts for
his own use any property entrusted to
him or under his control or allowing any
other person so to do. person with imprisonment for
a term not less than one year

but it may extend to seven- years and shall also be liable
to ﬁne. A discretion is, how- ever, given to the court to
award a sentence less than one
year for any special reason to
be recorded in writing. Accord- ing to section 5(2) A, the amount
involved in such a misappro- priation, will have to be taken
into consideration in ﬁxing
the ﬁne. ~..._-u-...'... r V on

up ..i-..\.»-:~-~.-..- my I... LZI

(I) (2)

The Prevention of Corruption Act, 5(3)
1947 (conzd.) 2.. The Criminal Law (Atne'nd~ 61
ment) Act, 1962. 3. 'The Indian Post Oﬂice "Act, 52
1898 (6 of 1898). Ditto - t 56

APPENDIX 7 (contd.) (3) Section 5(3) introduces a presumption that
where an accused or any person on his
behalf is in possession of pecuniary re-
sources or property disproportionate to
his known source of income, he will be
deemed to be guilty of misconduct unless
he has satisfactorily explained. Section 61 empowers the State Govern--
ment to appoint special judges to try cor-
ruption and misappropriation cases under sections 161-165 and 165A , Indian Penal
Code and section 5(2) of the Prevention
of Corruption Act, 1947. - Section 52 states that any oﬂicer who com- mits theft or dishonestly misappropriates
any postal article shall be punished with
imprisonment for a term which may ex-
tend to seven years and shall also be
punishable with ﬁne. Postal article is
deﬁned in s. 2(1) . Section 56 makes it an offence for those
postal employees who post or put into
any postal article without paying the re-
quired charges, intending thereby to de-
fraud the Government of the postage. The punishment may extend to
imprisonment upto two years
or with ﬁne or with both. 4. The Railway Stores (Unlawful
Possession) Act, 1955 (51 of

1955)- 5. The Navy Act, 1957 (62 of 1957). 6. The Air Force Act, 1950 (45
of 1950). 36B 52 Section 3 provides that if any person is
found in possession of any article of rail-
way stores, reasonably suspected of being
stolen or unlawfully obtained and cannot
account satisfactorily for the same, shall
be punished with imprisonment for a
term which may extend to ﬁve years or
with ﬁne or with both. Section 67 prescribes that any person sub-
ject to naval law, who breaks bulk on
board any vessel taken as a prize, with
intent dishonesty to misappropriate any-
thing therein, shall be punished with im-
prisonment for a term which may extend
to two years. Section 36B states that any person, subject
to this act, breaks into any house etc. in
search of a plunder, shall be punished
with imprisonment for a term which
may extend to 14 years or such less pun-
ishment as is otherwise provided in this
Act. If the offence is committed while
not in active service, the maximum pun-
ishment that can be awarded is seven
years. Section 52 provides that any person subject
to this Act, who commits any of the follow-
ing offences, that is to say--- (a) commits theft of any property be-
longing to the Government or to any
Military, Naval or Air Force mess; «or

sit

(I) (2) The Air Force Act, 1950 (45 of 1950)
(conta'.)

Ditto 67 7. The Army Act, 1950 (46 of
I950). APPENDIX 7 (contd.) (3) (b) dishonestly misappropriates or con-
verts to his own use any such pro- perty; or (c) commits criminal breach of trust in
respect of any such property; or (d) dishonestly receives or retains any
such property in respect of which any
of the offences referred to above ,
knowing or having reason to believe
the commission of such o1Tence.. ..
shall be punished with imprisonment
extending upto ten years or such less
punishment as in this Act is men- tionéd. Section 67 makes an attempt to commit any

such offence punishable for a term which
may extend to one half of the longest term
provided for that offence or such less
punishment as is mentioned in this Act.
But for an attempt to become an offence,
some act should be done towards the
commission of the offence. The Army Act contains almost similar pro- visions as in the Air Force Act, 1950 . See section _36B, section 52 and section 66 , (4) 081.. 8. The Assam Riﬂes Act,
1941 (5 of I941)- 9. The Central Reserve Police

Force Act, 1949 (66 of 1949). I0. The Indian Forest Act, 1927 (16 of 1927). 11. The Indian Reserve Force
Act, 1888 (4 of 1888). 7 "Q" 9]

I4

33(1) Section 7 "Q" makes it an offence if a riﬂe

man plunders, destroys or damages any
property of any kind. Section 9 ] provides, inter alia, that every

member of the force on active duty, who
breaks into any house or other place for
plunder or plunders, destroys or damages
property of any kind, shall be punishable
with transportation for life etc.

Section I4 provides that whenever any wea- pon, part of the weapon or ammunition is
lost or stolen, the Commandant may im-
pose a collective ﬁne upon subordinate
oﬂicers and men of such unit whom he
considers to be responsible for such a loss
or theft. - Section 33(1) provides for certain offences

some of which partake of the character of
theft and misappropriation of public pro-
perty. The punishment may extend to
six months' imprisonment or ﬁne up to
Rs. 5oo or With both. Section 6 states that if a person belonging to

the Reserve Forces, fraudulently obtains
any pay or other sum,[contrary to any rule

or order, shall, onﬁconviction by Court- The punishment may extend to
one year or with ﬁne up to
Rs. 200 or with both. Martial, be punishablqasithe court under

APPENDIX 7 (contd--.)

(I) (2) (3) (4) The Indian Reserve Force Act,
I888 (conzd.) 12. Administration of Evacuee
Property Act, 1950 . .13. The Indian Electricity Act,
1910 (9 of 1910). :4. The Indian Penal Code (45
of 1860). 32' 39 49 389 the Army Act can award. But this
punishment shall be short of death,
transportation. or imprisonment exceeding
one year. Section 32 states that any person who un-
lawfully converts to his own use any
evacuee property, shall be punishable
with imprisonment for a term which may
extcltlnd to three years or with ﬁne or with
bot . Section 39 states that whoever dishonestly
abstracts, consumes or uses any energy,
shall be deemed to have committed theft
within the! meaning 'of the Indian Penal
Code and the existence of artiﬁcial means
for such an abstraction shall be presumed
to be evidence of such an abstraction. Section 49 extends the application of section
39 to cases where the energy is supplied
to works belonging to Central or State
Governments. Section 389 provides that whoever, being a
clerk or servant, commits theft in respect
of any property in the possession of his
master or employer, shall be punished with

imprisonment of either description for a
term which may extend to 7 years and
shall also be liable to ﬁne. 405 Section 405 provides that whoever, entrust-- Section 406 prescribes punish-
ed with property, dishonestly misappro- ment for criminal breach of
priates or converts to his own use that pro trust: imprisonment of either
perty or dishonestly uses or disposes of descri'ption for a term which
the property in violation of any direction may extend to 3 years, or with
of the law etC., he will be deemed to have ﬁne, or with both.
committed criminal breach of trust. One
of the illustrations given under this secticn
is: "A, a revenue officer, is entrusted
with public money and he is directed by
law, or bound by a contract, expressed or
implied, with a Govermnent to pay into
certain treasury all the public money which
he holds. A dishonestly appropriates the
money. A has committed criminal breach
of trust." 407 Section 407 provides that whoever, being
entrusted with a property as a carrier,
wharﬁnger or warehouse-keeper, commits
criminal breach of trust in respect of such
property, shall be punished with impri-
sonment of either description for a term
which may extend to seven years and shall
also be liable to ﬁne. 408 Section 408 states that whoever, being a
clerk or servant, entrusted in such capacity
with property commits criminal breach 0t

APPENDIX 7 (concld.)

(I) (2) (3) (4) The Indian Penal Code (45 of
1860) (contd.)

I 5. The Indian Telegraph Act,
1885 (13 of 1885). 25A 27 trust in respect of that property, shall be

punished with imprisonment of either

description for a term which may extend

go seven years and shall also be liable to
ne. Section 409 provides that whoever, being in
any manner entrusted with property in his
capacity of a public servant etc., commits
criminal breach of trust in respect of that
property, shall be punished with impri-
sonment for life or imprisonment of
either description for a term which may
Extend to ten years, shall also be liable to

ne. If any person intending, inter alia, to commit Punishment may extend to im- mischief, damages, removes, tampers with
or touches any battery, machinery tele-
graph lmes etc., it is an offence. Section 25A makes provision for punishment
and ﬁne against those who wilfully or
negligently damage any telegraph mater-
ial. Section 27 punishes telegraph officers who,
with an intention to defraud Government,
send messages without paying the required
charges. prisonment upto three years,
or with ﬁne, or with both. The punishment may extend to
imprisonment upto three years,
or with ﬁne, or with both. vet

33 Section 33 makes provision for appointment
of additional police force in those areas
where wrongful damage to telegraph
property is repeatedly and maliciously
committed. The expenses involved in _the
employment of such police force are to be
borne by the inhabitants of such place. Section 5 provides that whosoever is in
possession of any quantity of telegraph
wires shall be punishable, unless he proves
that they are in possession lawfully. 16. The Telegraph Wires (Unlaw- 5
ful Possession) Act, 1950
(74 of 1950)- The punishment may extend to
imprisonment upto 5 years, or
with ﬁne, or with both1. ' The oﬁence is regarded as graver
than theft. See Banchhanidhi v. State A.I.R. 1959 Orissa
para IO. 177: 179; APPENDIX 8

Exrsrmc STATUTORY PROVISIONS RELATING TO TRAFFICKING IN
LICENCES, PERMITS, ETC. There are no direct provisions on the subject of traﬂicking in licenses,
The provisions of the following enactments, however, may be noted. Industries etc. Act, 1951 Sections 11 , 11 (a) , 12 (2'), 13, 18 (G) (I)(b), read with section 24 which
is the general penalty section, and section 24A, which is the penal section or
false statements. See also section 30 (1) , (1'), (j), (k), (I), (m) and (n). The Imports and Exports (Control) Contravention, etc., of an order made: NOTE :--Some_times such offences may fall under sections 420, 467, 457 I.I'.C-
also, if permit books have been tampered with3. 1A.I.R. 1957 Cal. 83. 'A.I.R. 1957 Cal. 606. I25

Certain "prejudicial acts". Sabotage. Receiving of sabotage property. Prohibition of prejudicial acts, publi-
cations and communications (punish-
ment is imprisonment) upto ﬁve
years or ﬁne, or both. . General control of industry. Under
sub--rule (9), penalty for contravention
of an order under thi imprson
ment upto three years or ﬁne or both-
If the contravention is made by re- sorting to any corrupt practice or
other rnalaﬁde action or by inducing
any person to abuse his authority,
then imprisonment may extend to
seven years. Forfeiture to Govern-
ment of the property in respect of
which an order passed under the rule
is contravened, is allowed for if the
order so provides. Defence of India Rules

I26A to I26Z

I32 133 Gold Control Rules. Prohibition regarding coins and notes.
This is to be read with s. 13 , Indian
Coinage Act, 1906 (3 of 1906). Regulation of dealings in security.
(Government securities are deﬁned
in section 2 of the Public Debt Act,

I944)» 137 APPENDIX 10

LIST or CENTRAL Acrs PERTAINING TO ANTI-SOCIAL OFFENCES,
OTHER THAN OFFENCES LISTED BY THE SANTHANAM COMMITTEE

. Child Marriage Restraint Act, 1929 (19 of 1929). . The Children (Pledging of Labour) Act, 1933 (2 of 1933), and other
Acts regarding labour. . The Drugs and Magic Remedies (Objectionable Advertisemens)
Act , I954 (21 of I954)- . The Untouchability (Offences) Act, 1955 (22 of 1955). . The Spiritous Preparations (Intcr--State Trade and Commerce) Con- trol Act, 1955 (39 of 1955). . The Prize Competitions Actl, I955 (42 of 1955). . The Young Persons (Harmful Publications) Act, 1956 (93 of 1956). . The Orphanages and other Charitable Homes (Supervisions and
Control) Act, 1960 (10 of 1960). . The Dowry Prohibition Act , I961 (28 of 1961). ' See State V. Bermet Coleman 59' Co. A.I.R. 1954 Born. 213. APPENDIX I I

PROVISIONS or THE INCOME-TAX ACT, 1961 (43 OF 1961) REFERRED TO IN
REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON PREVENTION OF CORR'UPTION----PAGE
271 (MIDDLE) AS OFFERING SCOPE FOR EVASION

Section Number Gist of the Section
(I) (2)
10(3) Excludes from total income receipts of

casual and non--recurring nature (un-
less they are capital gains or receipts
arising from business or exercise of
a profession or receipts by way of
addition to the remuneration of an
employee). 10(4) Excludes from total income in the case
of non--residents income from interest
etc. on bonds issued by the Central
Government under a loan agreement
with the international bank etc. or
bonds similarly issued by a Financial
Corporation etc.

11 Excludes from total income (subject to
the provisions of sections 60 to 63 )
income from property held for chari-
table or religious purposes. 13 Excludes the application of section
II in certain cases (roughly speaking
in respect of property held for a
private religious purpose, where
the trust does not ensure for the bene-
ﬁt of the public, and trust or charitable
institution created for the beneﬁt
of any particular religious community
or caste or for the author of trust or
his relative). 37 Allows expenditure (subject to certain
exceptions) laid out or expended
wholly and exclusively for the pur-
poses of the business or profession. I3 140 APPENDIX 11 (contd.) (2) 52 54 57 68 69 73 74 92 93 94.

m4

Deals with acquisition of capital asset
from an assessee, where the person
acquiring is directly or indirectly
connected with the object of avoidance
or reduction of the liability of the
assessee under section 45 . Section 45 provides for charge of income-tax or
capital gains. Provides that all income--arising by

virtue of a transfer whether revo- - cable or not, shall be chargeable to

income-tax as the transferor's income

where there is no transfer of the assets

(as to the meaning of "transfer",
see section 63 ). Provides that in computing the total
income of any individual, there
shall be included all such income as
arises directly or indirectly to the
spouse or minor child of such in- dividual through membership of a
ﬁrm or from assets transfered to
the spouse or minor child. Deals with method of computing a
partner's share in the income of the
ﬁrm. Deals with cash credits. Deals with unexplained investments.
Deals with losses in speculation business. Deals with losses under capital gains. Contain special provisions relating to
avoidance of tax, mainly in relation to
non-residents and in relation to sale
or purchase back of securities, and
other transactions involving securi-
ties. Deals with super tax on undistributed
mcome. APPENDIX 12
SUMMARY or CERTAIN POINTS AS TO TAX EVASION EIc., DISCUSSED IN THE

REPORT or INCOME-TAX INVESTIGATION COMMISSION, 1949 PRESIDED OVER

BY SHR1 VARDACHARIAR

he Incomc--tax Investigation Commission, constituted under the Taxation on Income (Investigation Commission) Act (30 of 1947);
was required to investigate and report on all matters relating to taxa-
tion on income, with particular reference to the extent to which the
existing law etc.. was adequate to prevent the evasion thereof. Ques-
tions 33 to 37 of the Questionnaire issued by the Commission (pages
269 and 270 of the Report) speciﬁcally dealt with certain matters
concerning evasion. In its Report the Commission dealt with evasion
and avoidance at various places. The important points are sum- marised below: Avoidance, though legal, wasregarded,
as anti--sOcial. It was suggested, that
the Department should keep a vigi- lant eye on inroads into revenue
by avoidance, so that prompt reme- dial action by legislation is taken by
Government. As regards evasion, it was stated that
it could be tackled effectively only
by improving and strengthening the
enforcement machinery, the existing
arrangements were reviewed under
the following heads :-- ing assessees, by (a) external survey; (17) exchange of information collected
from the records of existing
assessees available in the In- come-tax Department; (c) Collection and collation of in-
formation obtaining from out- side sources (including infor----
mers); APPENDIX 13 (contd)

(I) (2) Report, V01. 11, Pages 189 and 190, (ii) Special arrangernems for dealing

paras. 1 to 6--(comd.)

with cases of substantial eva- sion; ,

(iz'z') legal provisions for enforcing 'back
duty', z.c., section 34 of the
Income-tax Act, etc; (iv) public censure as a remedy for
evasion; (22) proper representation in income-
tax proceedings; (vi) strict enforcement of collections;
and

(m'z')vo1untary disclosure of conceal-
ments. Report, Vol. II, page 202, paras. 36 Recommendations were made to in- and 37 (Income-tax.)

crease the maximum limit of penalty
to three times the amount of tax. evaded and to provide that abetment
or instigation to evasion should be
made an offence punishable as the
main offence. It was also observed,
that prosecutions under sections 51 and 52 of the Income-tax Act, 1922

were seldom resorted to in actual'
practice. Report, Vol. II, page 320, para. II 'Certain recommendations were made

(Customs duties). Report, Vol. II, pages 353-361,

paras. 142 to 197. I as to the law relating to smug- gling. Summarises the various recommenda-
tions relating to evasion and avoid-
dance. Most of these concern ad- ministrative matters or topics. Report, Vol. III, pages 72, 73, 7 , Discusses the reasons for evasion and

paras. I9, 20, 21 (Sales Tax). avoidance of sales-tax. (See also
pages 49 and 65, para. 5). At page

72, para. I9, the practice of show- ing the sales--tax separately in the

cash memo is also discussed as a

source of evasion. At page 74,

the following categories of methods'

of evasion are listed:-- sion of some of the taxable.- sales from books and records; suppression of' other transactions'

Report, Vol. III, page 99, para. I2 144 APPENDIX

13 (concld.)

(I)

Report, Vol. III, pages 72, 73, 74,

paras. 19, 20, 21 (sales Tax) (comd.) (2) (Stamp duties). (e.g. purchases) in the light of
which the sales can be veriﬁed; under--estimation of production,
imports and sales by manufac- turers and importers ; falsiﬁed,
entries in declaration forms and
certiﬁcates; showing separately
sales of bullion and sales of ser- vices even when ready--made
gold and silver ornaments are
sold; and

Carrying on business without re- gistration; splitting up of business
so that the turnover may
be below the taxable limit; changing place of business, name
of ﬁrm, etc., when assessment
becomes due, or disappearing
altogether from the jurisdiction
of the particular State. Observes that since stamp duty is

levied on the instrument, it is theore-
tically possible that the party may
refrain from executing the instrument,
but the scope of such evasion is very
limited, as an instrument would later
be required as legal proof. But
under-valuing the transaction is a com-
mon method of evasion. Another
common method was to show a
type of instrument which was not
in conformity with actual facts (e.g.
pro--note instead of a bond). Prac-
tice of blank transfers was mentioned
as an example of "avoidance". APPENDIX 14

SUMMARY or THE POINTS MADE IN "INDIAN TAX Rr:roRM" BY
MR. KALDOR, DEPARTMENT or ECONOMIC AFFAIRS, MINIS-
TRY or FINANCE, GOVERNMENT or INDIA (1956)

One of the problems dealt with in the Report of Mr.
Kaldor was the problem of tax evasion. The matter' vvas
dealt with at pages 103 to 115 of his Report. The possible
remedies, considered by him are summarised below:--- (i)_ his proposals or resubmission of a single" per-
sonal tax, with a number of diﬁerent taxes which were
bound to reduce the "incentive to evade". (Page 106, para. 189 of the Report). (ii) Proposal for the submission of a comprehen-
sive return concerning the personal income of each
tax-payer and the introduction of a reporting system
on all capital transactions by means of tax vouchers. (Page 109, para. 194 of the Report). (riii) Compulsory auditing of accounts of tax-
payers whose income exceeds a certain minimum. (Page 107, para. 197 of the Report). (iv) Status and obligations of auditors.
(Page 111, para. 198 of the Report). Mr. Kaldor'-s Report

(72) Scrutiny of accounts by the Department.
(Page 112, para. 201 of the Report). (vi) Prevention through deterrents. (Page 113, para. 202 of the Report).
. (mt) Improvement of standards of administra-
tion in the Department

(Page 114, para. 205 oi the Report).
(viiii) Gold hoarding and taxation.
(Pages 115 to 120, paragraphs 206 to 218 of the
Report). '
APPENDIX 15

T41: §vets.Io.1~1----m1os.::cU":I.oN_-°- In; yon-Egmcgs mm
REPORT OF? T138 DIRECT TAXES ADJVIINISTRATION ENQUIRY
COMMHTEE (1958-59.),

(Pages 150 and 169-170, para. 7.12 and 7.63, 7.64). _ ''7-12- 009 i1I1P.01.'tant reason for the prevalence of evasion
15 stated to be that in actual actioe no deterrent punish- d
ment like imprisonment is bemg. meted out to tax evadérs P

14.5: APPENDIX 16

Exnmcrs FROM THE CRIMINAL Com: or THE HUNGARIAN
Proprrjs REPUBLIC, 1962 Section 124

(1) Whoever causes considerable prejudice by his acti-
vity in the province of his office, service or public charge
in order to undermine or Weaken the state, social or econo-
mic order of the Hungarian People's Republic or does so by
omission in his duty or by not doing it properly, shall be
punished with loss of liberty ranging from ﬁve to twelve
years. (2) Punishment shall be loss of liberty ranging} from
ten years to ﬁfteen years, or death, if--- (a) the crime has caused particularly grave pre-
judice; , (b) the crime has been committed in times of war. (3) Whoever carries out a preparatory act for sabotage,
shall be punished with loss of liberty ranging from six
months to ﬁve years and in times of War with loss of liberty
ranging from two years to eight years. Section 125

(1) Whoever destroys, renders useless or damages a
public facility, plant, production unit, general trafﬁc, tele-
communication plant or equipment, public building or
structure, stock of products or produce, war material or
other property of similar importance by its purpose, and
does so with the aim of weakening the state, social or
economic order of the Hungarian People's Republic, shall
be punished with loss of liberty ranging from ﬁve years to
twelve years. (2) Punishment shall be loss of liberty ranging from
ten years to ﬁfteen years or death, if- (cz) the crime has caused particularly grave pre-
judice; (b) the crime has been committed
causing public danger or

in a manner

(C) in time: of war. (3) Whoever carries out a preparatory act for destruc-
tion, shall be punished with loss of liberty ranging from
six months to ﬁve years and intimes of war with loss of
liberty ranging from two years to eight years. Sabotage. Destruction. Abuse of
Oﬂicial

Power. Trading in

'inﬂuence. Crime
committed
with harmful
articles of
general
consumption. Traﬂic in
drugs. APPENDIX 16 (contd.) Section 144 An ofﬁcial person who infringes his official duty, ex- cf,
ceeds his power or abuse his ofﬁcial position in any Way 5 (I)(_ f
in order to cause unlawful prejudice or to procure an un- IC":r';upu.°';°
lawful advantage for himself or for another, shall be Act, 194;,
punished with loss of liberty not exceeding three years. '

and Secuon Section 153 166 , Indian
Penal Code. (1) Whoever demands, asks or accepts for himself or for
another an advantage for using his real or pretended inﬂu-
ence with an oﬂicial person shall be punished with loss of
liberty not exceeding three years. (2) Punishment shall be loss of liberty ranging from six
months to ﬁve years if the person trading in such inﬂuence---~ (a) has alleged or pretended that he will bribe an
official person or accord an advantage to him; (b) when committing the act or using his inﬂuence
has pretended to be an official person. Cf. Sections
1637164,

Penal Code. (3) Punishment shall be loss of liberty ranging from two
years to eight years if the crime has been committed

professionally. Section 196

(1) Whoever makes or stores with the aim of putting 67- Section
into circulation an article for general consumption injurious lﬁﬁfllfclgan
to health, shall be punished with loss of liberty not exceed- of Food,

ing one year. etc. Act,
1954-

(2) Whoever puts into circulation the article deﬁned in
para. (1) shall be punished with loss of liberty not exceeding
three years. (3) Whoever Commits by negligence the crime deﬁned in
para. (2) shall be punished with loss of liberty or correc-
tional-educational work not exceeding one year. Section 198

(1) Whoever makes, procures, keeps or puts into circula-
tion a drug suitable for pathological enjoyment by infring-
ing or evading the prescription of the authorities, shall be
punished with loss of libel ty not exceeding one year. (2) Punishment shall be loss of liberty not exceeding
three years, if the crime was commi.tted-- (a) professionally, (b) by a recidivist, or (c) in criminal partnership. Cf. Section
(35)(5Xi),
Defence 0
India Rules
191?}. APPENDIX 16 (contd.) Section 224

(1) Whoever infringes his duty based on law or on a d1s- , .
position issued on the strength of law, which duty 11313193 to §§,§',§§;§,-30$
the production, utilization, Cll'CUl8.l'.10I],.d€Cl8.I'3.l210I1, putting with the
at disposal, keeping on stock. or handling' of products 01' economy.
produce and by doing so causes considerable economic pre-
judice, shall be punished with loss of liberty not exceeding
three years. (2) Punishment shall be loss of liberty ranging f1"0m Six

f months to ﬁve years if the crime- (a) was committed by a recidivist, (b) in respect of a, considerable quantity of products
or produce or of products and produce of considerable
value. (3) Punishment shall be loss of liberty ranging from two
years to eight years, if the interests of the people's economy
were gravely prejudiced by the crime. (4) Whoever committed the crime by negligence shall be
punished with a ﬁne and if the interests of the people's eco-
nomy were gravely prejudiced with loss of liberty or correc-
tional-educational work not exceeding one year. Section 225

(1) A worker, authorized to take dispositions indepen-
dently, of a state organ, social organization or co-operative,
who gravely or systematically infringes the requirements
of rational economy, displays an economic activity involving
considerable waste of money, material, power or labour,
shall be punished with loss of liberty not exceeding three
years. Wasteful
Husbandry. . (2) Punishment shall be loss of liberty ranging from two
years to eight years, if the interests of the people's economy
were gravely prejudiced by the crime. (3) Whoever commits the crime by negligence, shall be
punished with loss of liberty or correctional-educational
work not exceeding one year and, if the interests of the
people's economy were gravely prejudiced. with loss of
liberty not exceeding three years. Section 226

(1) Whoever misleads the competent organ of the peo-
ple's economy by supplying untrue data, concealing data,
Or in 811$' other mé'~nT1€I', in order to obtain the granting of
an investment or credit or the approval of the economic
plan, or to inﬂuence the distribution of ﬁxed and circulating
funds, the ﬁxing of a price 'or to obtain permission of the
foreign exchange authority, shall be punished with loss of
liberty not exceeding three years. Misl eading-;,
the organs
of the
people's
economy- Infringement,

Obstructing

«economic

control and
collection of
economic
data. Misuse of
inventions. 'Crime

discipline in
vinvestments
and ﬁnance. APPENDIX 16 (contd.)
(2) Punishment shall be loss of liberty ranging from six

'months to live years if considerable economic prejudice was

caused by the crime. (3) Punishment shall be loss of liberty ranging from two
years to eight years, if the interests of the people's economy
were gravely prejudiced by the crime. Section 227

(1) Whoever misleads the organ entitled to carry out '

economic control or to collect economic data by supplying
untrue data on the management, by concealing data or in
any other way, or refuses to comply with the obligatory
supply of data or of reports, systematically fails to keep the
prescribed accounts and registers or presents in them the
prescribed data systematically falsiﬁed, or attempts in any
other way to frustrate control, shall be punished with loss
of liberty or correctional-educational work not exceeding
one year. '

(2) The same punishment shall be inflicted on a person,
who takes a hostile measure against a worker for having
supplied correct data to the organ mentioned in para. (1). Section 228

(1) Whoever sends abroad or publishes in Hungary
without the permission prescribed by law an invention, or
other exploitable technical idea, shall be punished with
loss of liberty not exceeding three years, if no graver
crime was committed. (2) Punishment shall be loss of liberty ranging from
two years to eight years, if the interests of the people's
economy were gravely prejudiced by the crime. Section 229

(1) Loss of "liberty not exceeding one year shall be in-
flicted on '

a person who infringes or evades a duty or prohibition
deﬁned in the statutory provisions on the credit system,
money circulation and on investment and renewals by-- (a) granting directly or indirectly an unautho-
rized credit or making use of such credit, (b) using for another purpose a credit granted
for a deﬁnite purpose or the funds granted for a deﬁ- -nite investment or renewal, (c) realizing an investment without permission,
'an investment or renewal with funds from a not per-
mitted source or a renewal with funds to be used for
:-another purpose, ' 151 APPENDIX 16 (contd.)

(0!) diverting totally or partly the cover of the
credit, preventing enforcement of the securities of the
credit (lien, mortgage, statutory priority to satisfac-
tion, assignment, suretyship, etc.) or frustrating in
another way satisfaction of the creditor from the

cover, . (e) arranging that wages be paid not to the debit
of the wage fund, or that some other payment than
wages be made to the debit of the wage fund. (2) Punishment shall be loss of liberty not exceeding
three years. if interests involved in the order _of_ invest-
ments and nioney economy were gravely prejudiced by
the crime. ! Section 230

(1) A worker in a managerial position or responsible
for quality control of an industrial or commercial enter-
prise or co-operative, who acts in such a manner that an
industrial product of bad quality be put into circulation
as a good quality product or does not prevent the putting
into circulation of such product in this manner, though
obliged so to do by his sphere of activity, shall be punished
with loss of liberty not exceeding one year, if no graver
crime was committed. (2) Punishment shall be loss of liberty not exceeding
three years, if the crime was committed in respect of a
considerable quantity of industrial products or industrial
products of considerable value. (3) Punishment shall be loss of liberty ranging from
 months to ﬁve years, if the interests of people's economy
were gravely prejudiced by the crime. (4) Whoever commits such a crime by negligence,
shall be punished in the case defined in para. (2) with loss
of liberty or correctional-educational work not exceeding
one year and in the case deﬁned in para. (3) with loss of
liberty not exceeding three years. ' "' Section 231

(1) Whoever infringes the rules relating to the ﬁxing
of the quality of industrial products, shall be punished with
loss of liberty or correctional-educational work not exceed-
ing one year, if, as a consequence, a considerable quantity
of industrial products or industrial products of consider-
able value had been put into circulation included in a
higher quality category than laid down by a standard of -the Hungarian People's Republic or by another binding
prescription. '."'; iv

(2) Punishment shall be loss of liberty not exceeding
three years, if the interests of the people's economy were
gravely 'p'i"ejudiced byvthe crime. P

47 Law--11. Putting into
circulation
an industrial
product of
bad quality. Putting
into cir- culation an
industrial
product of
bad quality. APPENDIX 16 (contd.) Section 232 """'"8i"'° (1) An industrial product, for which quality require- Sici;11l?1E:3ia1 ments are ﬁxed by a standard of the Hungarian Peop1e's

Product of Republic, shall be deemed to be of bad quality, if it does
bad q"3"'Y' not comply even with the lowest quality requirements

deﬁned in the standard. (2) If the quality of an industrial product is not ﬁxed
by a standard of the Hungarian People's 'Republic, it shall
be deemed to be of bad quality if it does not even comply
with the lowest quality requirements deﬁned in the tech-
nical speciﬁcation approved by the superior organ or organ
otherwise competent for such approval. (3) If in foreign trade the quality of the industrial pro-
duct is ﬁxed not on the basis of the standard of the Hunga-
rian People's Republic, such product shall be deemed to
be of bad quality if it does not comply with the contrac-
tual stipulations, provided that it is for this reason com-
pletely unsuitable for performing the conditions of the
contract or made suitable only by causing considerable

economic prejudice. (4) In addition to the cases referred to in the above
paragraphs such an industrial product shall be deemed to
be of bad quality, which cannot be used for its proper
purpose or whose usefulness is considerably reduced. Section 233 False.at- (1) Whoever attests in a quality certiﬁcate or in an-
t¢Sta_t10n Of other document guaranteeing quality untrue data on the
q""1"Y- quality of products or produce. shall be punished with loss

of liberty not exceeding three years. (2) Whoever commits the crime by negligence shall be
punished with loss of liberty or correctional-educational
work not exceeding one year. Section 234 P"'ﬁ"8 ""0 Whoever puts into circulation products or produce with Cf. 8. 5,6

1'§i,0d'°"1auctti;'" a quality mark, standard mark or other mark, with which 13
(produce) the product or produce does not comply or puts into cir- smﬁaﬁnmds,

Pr_<t>l'1'id¢<f1al culation or causes to be put into circulation the product or etc. Act, 36
'gaﬁa 3' produce provided not with the mark of the real producer, of 1962- -
' but with that of another, shall be punished with loss of

liberty or correctional-educational work not exceeding
one year, if no graver crime was committed. Section 235 Bribersh (1) Whoever asks, demands or accepts an advantage
for infringing his duty in his sphere of activity with a state
enterprise, other state economic organ or co-operative,
shall be punished' with loss 0: libert_y"not exceeding three _
>'ears- , ; ' . - , ' 153 APPENDIX 16 (contd.)

(2) Punishment shall be loss of liberty ranging from
six months to ﬁve years if---- (a) the perpetrator is a recidivist; (b) considerable economic prejudice was caused
by the crime. (cl the provisions of section 154 shall also be
applied to bribery. ' Section 236 Whoever': Sp6Cl1lRtiOD. (a) carried on commercial activity or maintains
an industrial enterprise without a proper licence,

(1)) carried on unjustiﬁed intermediate trade with
goods or speculates with them in any manner leading
to proﬁteering,

shall be punished with loss of liberty not exceeding three
years. 'L

(2) Punishment shall be loss of liberty ranging from
six months to ﬁve years, if speculation was committed- (a) professionally, (b) by a recidivist, (c) in criminal partnership, (d) in respect of a considerable quantity of goods
or of goods of considerable value, (e) was camouﬂaged to give the impression that
the economic activity involved by it had been carried
on by a state enterprise, other state economic organ or
co-operative within the scope of its regular activity. (3) Punishment shall be loss of liberty ranging from
two years to eight years, if the interests of the people's
economy were gravely prejudiced by the speculation and
if in this case the crime also falls under para (2), punish-
ment shall be loss of liberty ranging from ﬁve years to
ﬁfteen years. . (4) In the cases deﬁned in para (2) and para (3) conﬁs-
cation of property may also be applied as supplementary
punishment and a recidivist may also be punished with
expulsion from certain places of the country. Section 23 7

(1) Whoever carries on foreign trading activity with- Unauthorised
out being properly authorized so to do, shall be punished f°"?'$" mde
with loss of liberty not exceeding three years. a°t""ty'

(2) Punishment shall be loss of liberty ranging from
two years to eight years, if the inerests of the people's
economy were gravely préjudiééd b flié crime. Proﬁteering

Defrauding
the custo- mers. APPENDIX 16 (contd.)
(3) Whoever commits the crime by negligence shall
be punished with a ﬁne and_, if_the interests of the people s
economy were gravely prejudiced, with loss of liberty or
correctional--educational work not exceeding one year. Section 238

(1) Wh0ever,---- (a) demands, stipulates or accepts for goods at
price higher than that fixed by the authority, or (b) in the absence of a price ﬁxed by the authori- g
ty demands, stipulates or accepts a price including Cf. section

proﬁts in excess of an equitable gain, 30X? 3 - 9

. . I04
shall be punished with loss of llberty not exceeding three ;,7(;)§ )%,
years. E'I¢n¢ﬂ1_ '
Commodities
(2) Punishment shall be loss of liberty ranging from 8'§§.§9I69%5)_
six months to ﬁve years if proﬁteering was committed----
(UL) professionaly, (b) by a recidivst, (c) in criminal partnership, (d) in respect of a considerable quantity of goods
or goods of considerable value. (3) Punishment shall be loss of liberty ranging from
two years to eight years, if the interests of people's econo-
my were gravely prejudiced by the crime. (4) In the cases falling under paragraphs (2) and (3)
conﬁscation of property may also be inflicted as supple-
mentary punishment and if proﬁteering is committed pro-
fessionally by a recidivist, he may also be expelled from
certain parts of the country. (5) A person committing the crime by negligence shall
be punished with a ﬁne. (6) The act of a person, who does not exceed the guid-
ing price ﬁxed by the authority, shall not be subject to -para (1) clause (b). . Section 239

(1) Whoever defrauds the customers in reta-il trade
by false weighing, counting or by injuring the quality of
goods, shall be punished with loss of liberty not exceeding
one year. I

(2) Punishment shall be loss of liberty not exceeding
three years, if the crime was committed---- (a) professionaly, (b)_ by a recidivist or P » (c) if the crime involved considerable loss to the

purchaser. ' 155 APPENDIX 16 (contd.) Section 240

(1) Whoever, to the prejudice of public supplies (a) destroys, makes useless, hides, conceals or
utilizes the stock of products or produce at his disposal
despite a prohibition by law or by violating the rules
of proper economy. (b) stores, in Felation to his requirements, an
excessive quantity of products or produce and there-
by creates difficulties for others in obtaining them. (c) obtains by misleading conduct a licence for
the acquisition, putting into circulation or transport of
products or produce or speculates with such licence,

shall be punished with loss of liberty not exceeding three
years. (2) Punishment shall be loss of liberty ranging from
six months to ﬁve years, if the crime was committed--- (a) by a recidivist, (b) in respect of a considerable quantity or pro-
ducts or produce or products or produce of consider-
able value. (3) In the cases falling under para (2) conﬁscation of
property may also be applied as supplementary punish-
ment. (4) VVhoever commits the crime by negligence shall be
punished with a ﬁne. Section 241

(1) Whoever,---- (a) counterfeits or_forges money in current tender
for the purpose of putting it into circulation, (b) acquires money counterfeited or forged by an-
other for putting it into circulation, or (c) puts into circulation false or forged money,

shall be punished with loss of liberty ranging from two
years to eight years. (2) Punishment shall be loss of liberty ranging from
ﬁve years to twelve years, if money forging was committed (a) in criminal partnership, (b) in respect of a great quantity of money or
money of great value. (3)Punishment shall be loss of liberty ranging from six
months to ﬁve years, if coins were counterfeited or if the
quantity or value of the false or forged money is not con-
siderable. 9

Crimes
relating to
public sup- plies. Licences. Money forg- ing. Money forg- mg. Money
forging. Money
forging. S tamp
forging. APPENDIX 16 (Contd.)

(4') For money forging, conﬁscation of property may
also be inﬂicted as a supplementary punishment. Section 242

(1) If in the case falling under clause (c), para (1), section 241 the perpetrator had lawfully acquired the false
or forged money in the belief that it was genuine, and
subsequently recognized that the money was false or
forged, punishment shall be loss of liberty or correctional-
educational work not exceeding one year. (2) Punishment shall 'be loss of liberty not exceeding
three years, if the crime was committed in respect of a
great quantity of money or money of great value. Section 243 Whoever carries out an act of preparation for money
forging, shall be punished with loss of liberty or correc-
tional-educational work not exceeding one year. Section 244
(1) For the application of section 241 such alteration
of money withdrawn from circulation, that it should have
the appearance of money in circulation, shall be consider-
ed counterfeiting of money in circulation,

application or removal of a mark serving to show that
the money is only valid in a certain country shall be con-
sidered money forging, reduction for the precious metal
content of money shall also be considered as forging. (2) In applying sections 241 to 243 money shall mean
metal or paper money and bank notes. (3) Securities issued by the State and other bearer's
securities--if in general circulation--shal1 be adjudged in
the same way as paper money. (4) Foreign money and securities shall be granted the
same protection, as Hungarian money and securities. Section 245

(1) Whoever counterfeits or forges stamps with the aim
of putting them into, circulation or for use, or acquires
stamps counterfeited o_r forged by another person. for the
same purpose, shall be punished with loss of liberty not
exceeding three years. (2) The same punishment shall be inﬂicted on a person
who puts into circulation or uses false, forged or already
used stamps as genuine or unused ones. (3) Punishment shall be loss of liberty ranging from six
months to ﬁve years if stamp forging was committed- 1 F1.) in criminal partnership, 157 APPENDIX 16 (contd.) (b) in respect of a great quantity of stamps or
stamps of great value. (4) Punishment shall be loss of liberty not exceeding

one year, if the quantity or value of the stamps utilized or
put into circulation is not considerable. Secﬂion 246

(1) In applying section 245 the word stamps shall
comprise: Eation, or not yet put into circulation, intended for use
in any ﬁeld of activity of the post, postal meter
cancellation impressions, special and other overprints,
international reply coupons, postal receipts, further
any inscription of mark applied by the post in connec-
tion with postage, . (c) state administration prints under strict con-
trol, both with stamp impressions and without such
impressions,

(cl) oiﬁcial marks or seals, serving for taxation,
to prove the nature and content of metal, acceptance,
quality or quantity of material, or applied by a ﬁnan-
cial authority or organ, (e) sta-mps and seals, used by the office of weights
and measures for certifying, gauging, and examination
of measuring devices and for marking the volume of
barrels. (2) In applying section 245 putting into circulation
shall also mean putting into circulation for stamp collec-
tion, and forging shall mean any unauthorized alteration
of stamps for collection. (3) Foreign stamps shall be granted the same protec-
tion as Hungarian stamps. Section 247

(1) Whoever infringes or evades a duty or prohibition
deﬁned in statutory provisions on foreign exchange control
and in statutory provisions regulating possession and cir-
culation of precious metals and objects made from precious
metals, shall be punished with loss of liberty not exceeding
three years. _ (2) Punishment shall be loss_ of liberty ranging from
SIX months to five years, if the crime was committed. (a) professionally, (b) by ac recidivist, (c) in connection with considerable value. Stamp
forging. Crimes
violating
foreign
exchange
control. Tax
Fraud. Tax evasion. Custorn_s
duty crimes. APPENDIX 16 (contd.)

(3) Punishment shall be loss oi liberty ranging from
two years to eight years, if foreign exchange control-
interests were gravely pI'8]l1dlC€d by the crime. (4) In the case falling under paragraphs (3) _'c11'1d (3)
conﬁscation of property and expulsion from certain parts
of the country may also be applied as supplementary
punishment. (5) Whoever commits the crime by negligence in con-
nection with considerable value shall be punished with a
ﬁne. Section 248
(1) Whoever,---- (a) presents untruly or conceals before the autho-
rity a fact (data) of importance in determining his
liability to tax and thereby or by any other type 0}'
conduct reduces (b) by deceiving the authority takes advantage of

exemption from taxation or tax allowance, to which
he is not entitled, (c) in the absence of the condition ﬁxed by law,

or without official permission, diverts from inland'
revenue control, a product or produce reserved to in-
land revenue or acquires, hides or helps' to alienate
for pecuniary proﬁt a product or produce diverted by
another shall be punished with loss of liberty not
exceeding three years. (2) Punishment of the crime shall be loss of liberty
ranging from six months to ﬁve years, if committed by a
recidivist. (3) In applying this section, it shall be deemed to in-
clude duties. Section 249
(1) Whoever,---- N (a) diverts dutiable goods from customs duty
control or makes to the authority a false declaration
relating to circumstances essential for customs of the
dutiable goods (smuggling), (b) acquires, or hides for pecuniary proﬁt smug-
gled dutiable goods or co-operates with the same
purpose in alienating smuggled dutiable goods (receiv-
ing smuggled goods) shall be punished with loss of
liberty not exceeding three years. _ (2) Punishment shall be loss of liberty ranging from
six months to five years if the perpetrator is a recidivtst. APPENDIX 16 (coiitd) Section 250
(1) In cases of infringement of duties in connection Conﬁscation.
with economy, speculation, proﬁteering, crimes relating to
public supplies, crimes violating foreign exchange control
and of tax fraud as deﬁned in clause (c), para. (1), Section
248 , money or other objects with which the crime was
committed and belonging to the perpetrator, shall be con-
ﬁscated. (2) Conﬁscation may also be applied, if the money or
other object is not the property or the perpetrator, but
the proprietor had previously known that the crime would
be committed. (3) In cases of a customs duty crime the goods in res-
pect of which the crime was committed shall be conﬁscated;
goods being the property of a state organ or of a co-opera-
tive cannot be conﬁscated. (4) »If the money or other object, in respect of which
the crime was committed, cannot be conﬁscated, the perpe-
trator shall be obliged to pay the value of the object
subject to conﬁscation. (5) The Court may omit conﬁscation or the obligation
on the perpetrator to pay the value subject to conﬁscation.
if that would mean for the perpetrator an inequitable
prejudice not in proportion with the nature of the crime. Section 251 Criminal proceedings for the crimes enumerated below Infon:nan'orr..
may only be instituted on information lodged by the organ
deﬁned in a statutory provision: infringement of duties in
connection with the economy ( section 224 ), wasteful
husbandry ( section 225 ), misleading the organs of the
people's economy ( section 226 ), obstructing economic
control and collection of economic data ( section 227 ),
misuse of inventions ( section 228 ), crimes infringing disci-
pline in investment and ﬁnance ( section 229 ), putting into
circulation and industrial product of bad quality( sections
230 to 232 ) unauthorized foreign trade activity (section 237), tax fraud ( section 248 ) and customs duty crime
( section 249 ). Section 252 In applying this chapter---- Explmamry 1. Price ﬁxed by theauthority shall mean the price Provisions.
prescribed by the authority or to be applied by virture of
a disposition of the authority. 2. Goods shall be deemed also be include industrial or
other services of an economic character and price shall be
deemed also to include the equivalent (fee) of such
services and in general also any valuable consideration of
pecuniary value due for the, goods (performance). Theft

Embezzle- ment. Fraud

Malversation

Punishment
of theft,
embezzle- ment, fraud
and malver-- sation to the
prejudice

of social
property. Commission
to ICDOH a
crime to the
prejudice
of social
property. APPENDIX 16 (contd.) Section 291 Whoever removes the property of another with an un-
lawful intent commits a theft. Section 292 Whoever unlawfully appropriates the property of

'another entrusted to him or disposes of it as if it were his

own commits an embezzlement. Section 293 Whoever for unlawful gain induces or keeps another
in error or ignorance of the facts and causes thereby

prejudice commits a fraud. Section 294 Whoever being entrusted with the management of
another's property causes, violating his duty under such a
commission, damaged in such property, commits a malver-
sation. Section 295 ( 1) Whoever commits theft, embezzlement, fraud or
malversation to the prejudice of social property shall be
punished with loss of liberty ranging from six months to
ﬁve years. (2) Punishment shall be loss of liberty ranging from
two years to eight years if the crime was committed (a) by a recidivist, (b) in criminal partnership, (c) in a place where it caused public danger. - Punishment shall be,- (a) loss of liberty ranging from ﬁve years to
twelve years if particularly grave prejudice was caused
by the crime; (b) loss of liberty ranging from ten years to
ﬁfteen years or death if particularly grave prejudice
was caused by a crime committed in criminal partner-
ship or by a recidivist. Section 308

(1) Whoever obtains credible knowledge that the com-
mission Qf a wilful crime to the prejudice of social property
is under preparation or that such crime not yet detected
has been committed and does not report this to the autho-
rities as soon as possible, shall be punished with loss of
liberty not exceeding' one year. ' 161 APPENDIX 16 (conc1d.)

(2) Under para. (1) a relative of the perpetrator cannot
be punished. Section 298

(1) Whoever, being entrusted with the management §d 

or supervision of social property infringes or neglects the
duty ensuing .f.rom_this commission and thereby causes
damage and prejudice to such property, shall be punished
with loss of liberty not exceeding one year. (2) Punishment shall be loss of liberty not exceeding
three years, if particularly grave preJud1ce was caused by
the crime. '

(3) Whoever manages the property of another by virtue
of an ofﬁcial commission or approval (guardian, curator)
and while doing so, infringes his duty by negligence,
thereby causing a loss in the value of the property, shall
be punished with loss of liberty or correctional-educational
work not exceeding one year..,

APPENDIX 17

EXTRACT or CERTAIN SECTIONS or THE PENAL CoDE or NORWAY
("NORWAGIAN PENAI. Coi)E", 1961) PUBLISHED IN THE
AMERICAN SERIES or FOREIGN PENAL CODES. 88. Anybody who, in time of war, fails to fulﬁl a con-
tract relating to th-e supplies or the transport of the
military forces or a matter of importance to military or
civil defence, or is accessory thereto, shall be punished by
imprisonment up to ten years. If the act has caused heavy
damage to the defence of the country, or the death or serious
injury to body or health of another, a maximum of life
imprisonment may be imposed. If the breach of contract results from negligence, the
perpetrator shall be punished by ﬁne, or jailing or im-
prisonment up to six months. Anybody who commits such an act against a state allied
with Norway, or at war with a- common enemy, shall be
similarly punished'. (12-15-1960). 123. If a civil servant misuses his office to violate some-
body's rights by undertaking or omitting an official act,
he shall be punished by ﬁnes or loss of oﬂice or by
imprisonment up to one year. If he has acted for the purpose of obtaining an unlaw-
ful gain for himself or another, or if the felony has pur-
posely caused serious injury or a violation of rights,
imprisonment up to ﬁve years may be imposed. 'For a study of " White Collar Crime in Norway," see Aubert, " White
Collar Crime and Social Structure ". American Journal of Sociology (I952-53),
page 265, cited in Reckless, The Crime Problem (1965), page 224. cm. APPENDIX 17 (contd.) 153. Anybody W ho by breach of assumed obligations or
by spreading of false rumours, brings about famine or
scarcity of necessities, or is accessory thereto, shall be
punished by imprisonment up to eight years. 273. Anybody who spreads incorrect or misleading
information in order to influence the prices of goods,
securities or other objects, or is accessory thereto, shall be
punished by imprisonment up to four years. Fines may
be imposed together with imprisonment. Under extreme
ly extenuating circumstances, ﬁnes alone may be imposed
(5--1l--l95l)

APPENDIX 18

EXTRACTS or CERTAIN SECTIONS or THE ARGENTINA PENAI. Coon: lishment, who publishes or authorizes a false or incomplete
balance or report regardless of the purpose he had to
publish it. APPENDIX 19

ENGLISH LAW RELATING TO SPREADING FALSE RUMOURS ro
AITECT pnrcxs, arc. At common law, every practice or device by act, cons-
piracy, words or news to enhance the price of victuals or
other merchandise was held to be unlawful. These prac-
tices came under "forestalling" (practices to enhance

rices) including ingrossing (buying up standing corn,
etc.) for regrating i.e. selling at monopoly prices and 163 APPENDIX 19 (contd.)

similar oﬁences. Spreading false rumours was also one
example of such practices. The bare ingrossing of a whole
commodity in order to sel.l it at an unreasonable price was
also an offencel. By a statute of 18443, the several oﬁences
of badgering (buying up corn, etc., and carrying them
elsewhere for re-sale), ingrossing, forestalling and regrat-
ing were abolished. But section 4 of that Act preserved
the common law offence of spreading false rumours to
enhance or abate the prices of vendible commodities. The
section is quoted below :- APPENDIX 20
POSITION AT ENGLISH LAW REGARDING CERTAIN OFFENCES

Bribery and corrupt-,ion.---It is a misdemeanor at com-
mon law for an oiﬁcer who has a duty to do something
in which the public are interested, to receive a bribe
either to act in a manner contrary to his duty or to show
favour in the discharge of his functions3. The offence is
punishable by fine and imprisonment, whether the bribe
is accepted or not. The matter is now provided for in
greater detail by several enactments', inc1uding-- . (i) The Public Bodies Corrupt Practices Act, 188
(52 and 53 Vic., c. '63). (it) The Prevention of Corruption Act, 1906
(6 Edw. c. 37). (iii) The Prevention of Corruption Act, 1916
(6 & 7 Geo. 5, c. 64). (iv) Section 9 , Customs and Excise Act, 1952
(15 & 16 Geo. 6, c. 44). ('0) Section 123(2) ', Local Government Act, 1933
(23 & 24 Geo. 5, c. 51). (vi) Sections 171 and 99 , Representation of the
People Act, 1949 (12. 13 & 14 Geo. 6, C. 68). zusscn on crimc"{$§é), Vol. 2, page 1688. orcstalling, regrating, ctc., Act, or Conspiracy Act, 1944 (7 & 8, 24) (now repealed). chbold (1962), para. 3483. . . .. V
=hbold (1962), para 3483, 3484, 3996 and 3953- 164 APPENDIX 20 (contd.)

C0nspiracy.--A person may be convicted of "criminal
conspiracy" even where the act conspired to be committed
would not be an offence if committed by a single person.
It is from this point of View that the offence of criminal
conspiracy assumes some importance. The generally
accepted deﬁnition of conspiracy is that given by Justice
Wilkes on behalf of all the Judges, is one case', namely,
an agreement of two or more to do an unlawful act or to
do a lawful act by unlawful means? The case-law that
has developed on this subject has brought out the wide
scope of this offence. Of interest for the present purpose
are the following conspiracies held to be criminal-- (1') conspiracy to injure the public health, as by
selling unwholesome food3; (ii) conspiracy to combine to violate the provisions.
of a statute or statutory rule, etc., where the violation
of such statute or statutory rule would be a mis-
demeanour at common law or criminally punishable in
some speciﬁed manner'. (iii) conspiracy to do acts contrary to the public
amorals. The latest case on the subject is that of
Shawi. Conspiracy to cheat and defraud.--It is stated, that it is
really criminal to conspire to commit frauds in trade or
public cheats, whether the fraud or cheat, if done by an
individual without conspiracy would give only a ground
for civil remedies at law or in equity, or would be crimi- nally punishable. Examples of this conspiracy are combi-- nation of bankers or officers of companies to deceive and
defraud their shareholders by publishing false balance-
sheets, or'by concealing the insolvency of the bank, and
agreements to take part in deceptive schemes in order to
raise' the price of stocks and shares above their true value,
or to raise the price of commodities by ﬁctious sale'-7. Conspiracy to prevent, obstruct, pervert or defeat
justice.--This falls under three classes: ' (t) conspiracy to make false accusations of C1 imes
or unfounded civil claims; (it) conspiracy to threaten to make false accusa-
tions or claims; and

1Mucahy v. R., Law Reports (1868), 3 H.L. 306, 317. Of particular interest is a recent case" where the alleged
conspiracy by certain police officers to take rewards to
hinder prosecutions by not bringing the offenders before
the courts or by warning persons concerned of intended
prosecutions was in issue. Conspiracy or combination affecting trade.--These have
been the subject--matter of legislation particularly in rela~
tion to trade disputes. Subject to such legislation, a
criminal conspiracy in restraint of trade which has been
deﬁned as an agreement between two or more persons to
do or procure to be done any unlawful act in restraint of
trade (e.g. violence, threats, fraud, or coercion3-4) is punish-
able. How far combinations to monopolise or divert trade
would fall within this deﬁnition is a moot question.
Criminal prosecutions do not seem to have been under-
taken in England in respect of such combinations as being
conspiracies in restraint of trade''. Cheating.--This is an offence at common law in many
cases". It is unnecessary to enumerate the various cate-
gories. Akin to this offence is an offence of obtaining
goods by false pretences governed by section 32 of the

zlrceny Act, 19167.. (6 and 7 Geo. 5 c. 50). Conspiracy.~~See above. Embezzlement.----Sec section 17 of the Larceny Act, 19163
(fli and 7 Geo. 5, c. 50). These are several other special Acts
a so. -- False pretences.--See under cheating. Food.--At common law it is a misdemeanour to sell
food or drink with the knowledge that it is dangerous
or -unﬁt for human consumption". The Law on the
subject is now contained in Food and Drugs Act, 1955
(4 & 5 Eliz. 2 ch. 16), which consolidates the previous Acts

'Russell on Crimes (1958), Vol. 2, page 1707. Misconduct by judicial oiﬁcers in the nature of malfeasance
or culpable non-feasance has ﬁgured in several cases'. Abuses in respect of honours are speciﬁcally dealt with
by the Honours (Prevention of Abuses) Act, 19259 (15 & 16
Geo. 5 c. 72). E'roﬁteering.----Cee Prices of Goods Act (1939) section 1 ,
later Goods and Services (Price Control) Act, 1941 (4 8: 5
Geo. 6 c. 31). Public mischief.----The offence of conspiracy to commit
a public mischief is an offence which has a very wide scope
and its deﬁnition is not laid' down by statute. Its exact
scope is indeﬁnite, but until the decision in Newland, it was
understood that many acts such as dissemination of
rumours calculated to cause widespread alarm, and» building

'Russell on Crime, (1958), \lol. 2, pages 1606, 1589, I322.
'ArChb0ld (1962), para. 2166. Share pushing.------See section 13 of the Prevention of
Fraud (Investments) Act, 1958 (6 & 7 E112. 2 ch. 45).
Roughl stated, it punishes a person who, by publishing a
mislead}i'ng statement, promise or forecast or by any dis-
honest concealment of facts or by reckless statement, etc.
induces another person to enter into an agreement for
acquiring or subscribing for securities, etc}. Smuggling.--See the Customs and Excise Act 1952, sec- tion (45) (1) and section 3044. Tax.--As various enactments relating to taxation con-
tain penal provisions, it would not be possible to summarise
them here. But apart from statute, the making of false
statements relating to income-tax with intent to defraud
the Revenue has been held to amount to a common law
misdemeanourt"-'-7. Section 5 of the Perjury Act, 1911
(1 & 2 Geo. 5 c. 6) which is quoted below, is also of
interest:------ 'R. v. Newland (I953), 2 A.E.R. I067 (C.C.A.). 'Sec Report on Share pushing (1982, Cmd. 5539 and (1941) Annual; Of
?JfnCSI'iCan Academy of Political and Social Science, Vol. 217, Crime in the

 

'See Archbold (I962), paras. 3341-3342.
'R. v. Huon (1966), I A.E.R. 814 (1956), 2 QB. :52, dson_
'Archbold (1962), para. 3547. . he shall be guilty of misdcmeanour and shall be liable
on conviction thereof on indictment to imprison-
ment. . . .for any term not exceeding two years, or to
a ﬁne or to both such imprisonment and ﬁnef'. A false statement on oath before an income--tax Appeal
Tribunal consisting of two Commission amounts to per»-
jurv. such a tribunal falls within section 1(2), Perjury

Act, 1911'. The provisions of the lncom

affect any criminal proceedings for felony,
demeanour, under section 503 of the Income

(15 & 16 Geo. 6 c. 10). The following criminal remedies are open against a
person for frauds on the taxation law'3:---- (5) Fraud at common law, under the decision in

R. v. Hudson", (ii) Offences under the Perjury Act, 1911 [ section
1(1) for false statement on oath at the appellate hear-
ing before the Special Commissioner and section 5(h) for false statement not on oath knowingly and wilfully
made in a return etc. required by Act of Parliament'.] (iii) Offence under the Forgery Act, 1913 (3 & 4,
Geo. 5, c. 275); (iv) Conspiracy to defraud': stances. In addition. there are penal provisions in the Income-
tax Act, 1952, section 43(3) and section 505. As to proﬁt tax,
see section 28 of the Finance Act, 1943, and section 44 of
the Finance Act, 1946". Under section 468 of the Income-tax Act, 1952, a person
who is knowingly a party to the doing of any act amount-
ing to something which is unlawful under the provisions
against avoidance of income--t.ax or proﬁt tax liability by a
body corporate taking certain steps as to residence in the
United Kingdom is punishable with imprisonment up to

e-tax Act in U.K. do not
etc., or for mis- -tax Act, 1952

1 R. v. Hood-Bars (1943) K. B. 455, (I943) 1 A.E.R. 665. 1 Cf. Halsbury, 31-d Edn., Vol. 20, page 720, para. I448.
5 R. v. Hudson (1956), 2oB,'|'252 ; A.I.R. 814. ' See also Halsbury, 3rd Edn., Vol. 10, page 623. ' Halsbury, 3rd Edn., Vol. IO, page 840. ' See Halsbury, 3rd Edn., Vol. 10, pages 834-835. Bulgaria

The Criminal Code of 1951 (Bulgaria), Chapter 4, deals
with the crimes against the national economy. Important
provisions are quoted below':- Czechoslovakia Sections 85 , 135- and 136 of the Criminal Code for Courts
(as amended in 1956), are quoted below':- _vity of a public authority or other agent, national-
ized enterprise, people's co-operative, or any other
organization of the socialist sector shall be
punished by conﬁnement for from 3 to 10 years. Section 135 .---- (1) Whoever, by negligence, frustrates
or obstructs the operation or the development of the
government, national, communal or other public enter-
prise or of a people's co-operative, particularly by failing
to discharge or by violating the 'duty of his profession,
occupation, or his service by evading the fulﬁlment of
such a duty shall be punished by conﬁnement not to

'Based on,G. 8: G, Government Law, etc. in-Soviet Union, ctc., pages
1017 and 1019'. ' ' 171 APPENDIX 21 (contd.)

exceed 1 year and by ﬁne or (under aggravating.circum-
stances) by conﬁnement for from 3 months to 3 years and

by a ﬁne. Section 136 .--If a private businessman or other person
who is responsible for the management of his enterprise
fails---even through negligence--to discharge an obliga-
tion resulting from the uniform economic plan or from
required public deliveries or public works, he shall be
punished by conﬁnement not to exceed 6 months.". Poland'

Economic crimes in Poland are dealt with in the "Small
Criminal Code" of 1946, Chapter III ( Articles 39----45 ) and
other special laws? A brief summary of important provi-
sions is given below:--- (I) (2) Article 39 . . . . Adversely affecting the level of pro-
duction, or lowering the prc ducti:-."'
vity of an individual's own work
or that of subordinate personnel, or
for dereliction of duty either in
taking proper care of the technical
equipment of the enterprise, of its
raw materials, or produced goods
or causing deterioration of equip-
ment or wattage of raw materials
for goods. (Punishment up to 15
years' imprisonment). Under the amendment of Decree of
4th March, 1953 (penalties for Mar-
keting of Goods of defective quality),
penalties for introducing into dis-
tribution goods unﬁt for consump- tion or of inferior quality compared
with oﬂicial standards have been - enhanced. Article 40 . . . . Diverting to a free marke of goods
assigned for distribution through
Government stores. (Punishment up
to 15 years' imprisonment). 'The position as in 1960 has been stated here. Th aft th t
for reform, but material about that could not be obtained.erc er' cm W" movgnen

' - . . ~ I _ _ _ ﬁn ' '7
 f'°*" me & G, eovsmmenr I-w, swan-.a.. . I
I

1'72

APPENDIX 21 (eontds)

(I)

\rtic1e 41 . . . 'lrticl: 42

Decree of March 4, I953

(Decree for Protection of Buyers'
Interest in Trade). Wilful or (2) Unintentional transgression by failure

to exercise proper control and super-
vision is a lesser offence. (Pumsh-
ment up to 5 years' Imprisonment)- Offences against the planned distri- bution of goods, whether committed
with criminal intent or without in-
tent. (Punishment up to 15 years'
imprisonment). constant failure by the
manager of an enterprise to take
proper care of the welfare of
subordinate personnel, thus adversely
affecting their interests. (Punish-
ment up to 5 years' imprisonment). Section 1 of Article I of the Decree

is quoted below :-- ment up to ﬁve years and ﬁne." (Under Article 1, section 2 of this
decree, Punishment for habitually
engaging in speculation for re- peated conviction is imprison- ment from 2 to IO years and
ﬁne.)

I, 1 I301." C335 dxided 011 14th _M8Dd}, 19350 on the =previous aection--Arti¢;-le :0
sec Ion 1» Law of June.4. _lL9S7*01t High P.rices,_.etc., th¢ zsinseme Court explained that
1 person buying up or hoarding goods in excess of his normal needs was guilty. APPENDIX -21 (contd.)

_. _._ i_.._..:..., .._. __

(I) (2)

Two decrees of March 4, 1953, Under Article 1 , section I of the first
concerning strengthening of the Decree, stealing, appropriating, ob-
protection of socialist property taining without intent to pay or in
and concerning the protection of any way seizing socialist goods is
socialist property against petty punishable by imprisonment up to
theft (b-o.'h a_iieiiJed by the De-- 5 years. On a second conviction,

cree ofDecember 23, I954). imprisonment up to 10 years can
be awarded under section 2 . In

aggravating circumstances, the theft
of socialist property is punishable
by imprisonment up to 10 years
and not less than 2 years, under section 3 . If the offender has caused
major damage to the economic in- terest or the defence of the State,
the punishment cannot be less than
5 years' imprisonment and even im- prisonment for life can be awarded. Offences against foreign currency regu-
lations can be punished with imprison-
ment up to I 5 years or even for life,
and there are provisions for a mini-
mum sentence of 2 or 5 years' im- prisonment. Decree of March 28, 1952

Abuse of power. (This has been now
widely interpreted as covering not
only cases of dishonesty, but as also -including negligence and lack of
foresight.) ' Article 286 , Penal Code of 1932

For several offences, including many economic crimes, "Summary
Criminal Proceedings" are permissible under the Polish law, and
these offences include crimes committed to the detriment of the State,
public authorities, institutions of a public character, co-operatives,
enterprises owned or managed by the State or public authorities,
and other criminal acts which endanger the economic interests 0!
the People's Republic or expose it to considerable losses. For these
offences, death sentence or imprisonment for life can be awarded',
(irrespective of the punishment prescribed in the statute relating to
the particular crime'). 1 See G & G, Government Law, etc., in the Soviet Union, pages 1073, item ((9)
and 1074, middle. _ f Law of November 16, I956 (amended in 1949) on summary ~prouedlnp In
criminal courts. ' 174 APPENDIX 21 (contd.)

Rumania

The main articles in the Criminal Code of Rumania
relating to economic crimes are articles 268 , 242 and 385 of
the Criminal Code (No. 927). Economic crimes are re-
gulated under the title of "Offences against the Economic
System" and under the sub-title of "offences affecting the

public administration". The main economic crimes are':- rty or to the general interests of the citizens
( article 242 ); (i) failure to deliver agricultural goods reserved
for Government stores; (3') hoarding of goods; (k) breach of collective labour contracts; (1) infringement of regulations concerning ration
cards. (m) counterfeiting currency and bonds (article 383). Punishment upto 25 years' imprisonment can
be awarded for counterfeiting; and' if the act has caused
or would have caused considerable damage to the ﬁnan--
cial system, total conﬁscation of property can be
ordered; (n) Article 536 contains detailed provisions for
offences affecting collective property. _ 'Suxmnarised from material -in G & G, Government Law, etc., in Soviet
Union, vases 1093-1096. APPENDIX 21 (concld.)

Yugoslavia
In Yugoslavia the Criminal _ Code of 1951, sections 213 to 248 (Criminal Offences against the National Economy)
deal with economic crimes. The important p1'0VlSl0l'l5

are:---- ((1) sellers giving special favours to individual

buyers ( section 228 ); (b) barter ( section 229 ); (c) failure to fulﬁl the contractual duty of delivery
of a, ﬁxed quality of products to Government (section 236); (do) owner of land failing to cultivate the land or
reducing his livestock ( section 238 ); (e) members of agricultural cooperatives opposing
the management of the affairs of the cooperatives (sec- tion 240); (f) illegally carrying on a trade as a professional
practice, or illegally selling, purchasing or bartering
goods or articles the traffic in which is forbidden or
limited; or illegally keeping such goods or articles for
commerce or producing or processing goods the produc-
tion or processing of which is forbidden ( section 226 ): 'Summarised from G & G, Government Law, etc., in Soviet Union,
pages' 1120 to I122. The taxes covered by the various sub-titles of the Internal Revenue
Code are- A. Income Taxes ; B. Estate & Gift Taxes; C. Employment Taxes; D. Miscellaneous Excise Taxes; E. Alcohol, Tobacco and certain other Excise Taxes. Section
7201,
Internal
Revenue
Code. Attempt to
evade or
defeat
taxes . APPENDIX 22 (contd.)

There is another section dealing with wilful failure_ to
ﬁle return, but we are not concerned with that section

here.'

This section has replaced section 145 (b) of the In-
ternal Revenue Code, 1939, which in its turn had replaced
section l017(b), Revenue Act, 1924. The old section was
regarded as the "capstone of a system of sanctions which
singly or in combination were calculated to induce prompt
and forthright fulﬁlment of every duty" under the income
tax law? The important words in the section are
"wilfully attempts in any manner to evade or defeat any
tax". The constitutional validity of the section (with refe-
rence to the due process clause) appears to have been

upheld'. Prosecutions under the section have been instituted
mainly in the following situations (if the requisite
intent is proved) :-- ((1) lawyers and accountants participating in tax
frauds; (e) ofﬁcials of corporations attempting evasion of
the tax payable by the corporation concerned; (f) false claims to exemption. 'Section 7203 of the Internal Revenue C' de is quoted below :- ' Spies v. United States (1943), 317 U. S. 492, 497. ' U.S. v. Skidmore, 123 F. 2d, 604 cert. denied (I942) 315 U.S.
Soo. ' A husband and wife can ﬁle a joint return. Tax is computed on half
the combined income and multiplied by two. - Sections 2(a) and 6oI3(a),
Interenal Revenue Code. I * _

by the United States Supreme Court in the Spies case',

.17'? APPENDIX- 22 (coa1td.)

We may first take up the word "wilful" in the section.
This requires proof beyond reasonable doubt of a speciﬁc
intention to evade or defeat the tax or .1125 payment.
bona ﬁcle belief in a particular legal position would take
awav the case out of "wilful"1. Intent

The intent must be speciﬁc, that is to say, a mere
general intention to perform an illegal act is not sufﬁcient. Many of the "aiﬁrmative" acts have been enumerated :T"n|tiV'

C 8. though the court took care to observe that what it enun-
ciated was merely by way of illustration, and pointed out
that Congress had not deﬁned or limited the methods by
which a wilful attempt to defeat and evade might be
accomplished and, that perhaps the Congress did not deﬁne
lest its effort to do so result in "some unexpected limita-
tion". The illustrations given by the Supreme Court in the
Spies case are quoted below. fully ﬁling a false claim in order to defeat the tax supports
a charge under this section'. The question, however,
cannot be regarded as absolutely settled. Mere understatement of income does not support an
inference of wilfulness, -etc., but a consistent pattern of
under-reporting large amounts of income may support it'. As regards the expression "attempt" to evade tax, it has
been decided7 that the attempt need not consist of conduct
which would have culminated in a more serious crime but
for some impossibility etc. The prosecution can only be
for the attempt. The attempt itself is an independent
crime. Nothing is added to its criminality by success or
consumation. . ylschuermann v. United States, (1949) 174 F 2d 3975 certiorari denied'

338 U.S. 831. 'Ibid. 'Ibt'd. 'Holland v. U.S. , (1954) 348 U. S. 121 , 137 & I39. 'Achili v. United States. (1957) 358 U.S. 373.
'Holland v. U.S. (I954) 348 U.S. p 121. 224 Federal, 2d 225, cert. and "dcfmt". Failure to
ﬁle a
return. Taxes
avoided. Principle
followed . Administra- (IVE
machinery. APPENDIX 22 (contd.)

guilty beyond reasonable doubt, and (ii) there is a reason-
able probability of securing a conviction. "Civil" penal-
ties charging extra tax can also be imposed, and in most
cases only the civil penalty is applied. The distinction

between civil and criminal
ﬂagrancy of the offence, the available evidence and the

Government's burden of proof'. Administrative Machinery

The' Internal Revenue Service (an Agency of the
Treasury Department) collects the taxes imposed by the
Internal Revenue Code. Its headquarters are in Washing-
ton, and it has 9 regional offices, 64 district offices and

over 1,200 sub-offices'. So far as the question of investigation of frauds is
concerned, its hierarchy is as follows3:----
(1) National oﬂice Washington
Division-- ((1) Tax Fraud Branch; (b) Special Investigations Branch.
(2) Oﬂice of the Chief Counsel-- Assistant Chief Counsel (Enforcement). (3) Office of the Regional Commissioner-
Regional Commissioner. Regional Counsel. (Chief Counsel's Oﬂice). at Intelligence

Assistant Regional Commissioner (Intelli-
gence). (4) District Director's Office- (a) District Director; (b) Assistant District Director, Intelligence

Division-- (a) Tax Fraud Branch; (b) Special Investigation Branch. Criminal cases relating to tax evasion are investigated
by the officers of the' Internal Revenue Service, scrutinis-
ed by the Enforcement Division of the Regional Counsel
and prosecuted by the Tax Division of the Department of
Justice. That Department has a full-ﬂedged Criminal Tax
Section, having several Attorneys. 1 Crockett, Federal Tax System of United States, (1955), Page 136.
' Crockett, Federal Tax System of U.S., (1955), page I36. ' Based on information given in Cnockett, Federal Tax System of U.S.,
(I955). vases 243. 246- ' ' ' - fraud may depend on the. APPENDIX 22 (contd.)

In each district, there is a District Director of Internal
Revenue, controlled by the Assistant Regional Commis-
sioner, Intelligence. Ordinarily speaking, the District
Director, acting through the Chief, Intelligence Division,
is in charge of investigation of criminal violations of the
Revenue laws. Special oﬂicers of the Intelligence Divi-
sion (called "Special Agents") investigate cases of frauds,
and the District Director, with the concurrence of the
Chief, Intelligence' Division, recommends prosecution and
sends the recommendations to the Assistant Regional
Commissioner (Intelligence). If the latter agrees with
the recommendations, he transmits the papers to the
Regional Counsel, and the case is assigned in the latter's
office to an Attorney in the Enforcement Division_ who
determines whether the evidence shows guilt beyond
reasonable doubt and a reasonable probability of convic-
tion. He then sends the case to the Criminal Tax Section

. of the Department of Justice. Important cases are scrutinised by the Chief Counsel,
Enforcement Division at Washington. The Tax Division of the Department of Justice, through
its Criminal Tax section, is the ﬁnal authority to decide
whether to proceed with the prosecution or not': Its
attorneys are highly specialised in tax frauds work. If a
tax-payer asks for discussion at a conference, the request
is granted. The object of this conference is not settle-
ment; it is intended to give the tax-payer an opportunity
to explain suspicious circumstances. Tax-payers are
allowed to appear through Counsel in such conferences. Actual prosecution is conducted by a United States
Attorney5. Where there is no intent to defeat a tax, a compromise
might be entered into; otherwise it is not entered into. The
civil liability is discussed only after the criminal case is
disposed of, unless the court directs otherwise. The judi-
cial determination of the amount of the proposed civil
liability is supplied to the tax payer. but settlement of
the civil liability is not discussed until the penal case is
decided". This course is adopted in order to render futile
any attempt to offer to pay the civil tax liability and get
the criminal case dropped. It is also believed. that since
prosecution is a graver, penalty, it must be disposed of
ﬁrst. Lastly, a Drosecution in order to achieve its deter-
rent object, must occur at a time close to the date of the

offence. Zrgasey, Federal Tax Practice, (1955), Vol. 4, Paragraph 
and 15-4. ' Casey, Federal Tax Practice, (1955), Vol. 4, para. I5-5.
3 Casey, Federal Tax Practice, (1955), V01. 4: Data 15'5-

Othcf
sections . APPENDIX 21 (concld.)

Apar-t from section 7201 of the Internal Revenue Code,
there are certain other sections in the Internal Revenue
Code which deal with wilful failure to collect etc. tax or
to ﬁle a return or to pay tax or to keep records etc.

Further, section 287 (false claims for refund), section
371 (conspiracy to defraud), section 1001 (false statement)
and section 1621 (perjury) of the Criminal Code (U.S.
Code 18) can also be used for punishing various types of
offences relating to tax. It is not, however, necessary to

quote' them here. APPENDIX 23

THE PENAL, Com: AND THE PREVENTION or CORRUPTION,
ETC., ACT

The Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947 creates only
one substantive offence, namely, "criminal misconduct",
which is deﬁned in section 5(1) : The main object of the
Act was to deal with the kind of "misdemeanour in which
Government servants or public ofﬁcers with no ostensible
means of support or inadequate support are living ob-
viously above their income and are" in a position to invest
in property, which it appears on the face of it to be im-
possible that they should have had the money to acquire
or at any rate that they should have got those resources
honestly"1. It was felt that it was difficult to pin down,
because in such cases all that the Government or the police
could ﬁnd was that the Government servant could have
no ostensible source, which could be accounted for as the
basis of extravagant expenditure. No speciﬁc action
could be alleged against him or proved in the way of
accepting a bribe or obtaining the money by corrupt
means. The object of section 5 was to make it possible
to detect and punish officers who had "managed to evade
detection in that way"!

The proposal for enacting the Act arose out of the
recommendation made by a Committee appointed in
Bengal in 1944, which suggested that legislation was
necessary to tighten up the law relating to bribery and
corruption. The Provincial Government of Bengal referred
the matter to the Central Government, suggesting Central
legislation'. The recommendation was, that a new offence should
be created to provide, that if a public servant was in
possession of accretion of wealth, he should be deemed
guilty of the offence of criminal misconduct, etc., unless

'Speech of Mr. Porter, Home Sccreta C '1 f S D b
dated 25th Feburary, I947, Vol. I, No. 5, pagenffio ocltmcsleqf) mm C at",

'Ibid. 1947 Vol. I, No. 5, page 180 at scq. 'Speech of Mr. 'Porter, Council. of Static Debates, 25:1: FebruIry'~ 183 APPENDIX -23 (contd.)

he could prove that the accretion was honestly obtained.
Now, it was not possible to frame a substantive clause
creating such an offence. The only way in which the
object (of making the unaccountable possession of more
money than a public servant ought to have an oifence)
could be achieved, was the enactment of the presumption
in section 5(3) . Clause (c) was put to make it clear, that
of the various ways by which a public servant could im-
properly acquire wealth, this was one'. It may not be
possible to pin a public servant down that he has received
a money as a bribe or by misappropriation or by abuse.
All that could be proved was, that the public servant had
been buying property or acquiring a ﬂeet of motor cars,
etc, beyond his means. That explains the form of section 5.

While bribery is a form of curruption, the long title of
the Act makes it clear that other forms of curruption are
also sought to be checked by the Act. As it is a socially
useful measure conceived in the public interest, it is to be
liberally construed so as to bring about the desired object
of preventing corruption among public servants and at
the same time, harassment of the honest among themi. Though four classes of misconduct are mentioned in section 5(1) (:1) to (d), apparently a charge merely under section 5(2) would suﬁices. The ingredients of the offence are described in section
5(1) , and the penal provision is in section 5(2) '. It would be useful to note the points of difference
between the Indian Penal Code and the Prevention etc.
Act. The latter Act contains various special rules of
evidence, investigation and procedure which show how
the provisions of the Act diﬂfer from the Indian Penal
Code . The most important provision of the Act is section
5(3) , under which possession of pecuniary resources or
property disproportionate to the known sources of income
raises a rebuttable presumption that the accused is guilty
of "criminal misconduct"5. Another presumption is that
enacted in section 4 about motive, etc."-7. 1 Ibid. APPENDIX 23 (c0ntd.) CHART No. 3 (Nlzsappropriation, etc.) Section 405 , Indian Penal
Code. Section 5 (I)(c) Prevention,
etc. Act. There must be dishonest "ais- appropriation or conversion
for own use or use or dis- posal in violation oflaw, etc.,
under section 405. Regarding use or disposal, it
must be in violation of a
direction of law or legal con- tract. The public servant must be
" entrusted " with property
or with any " dominion " any other person to do. Punishment is imprisonment
upto 10 years and also ﬁne. It is enough if there is

"dis- honest " or "fraudulent " The expression abuse of position is not deﬁned, but
"dishonesty", it has been held," is implicit in the word
"abuse". As regards the end to be obtained, it is provided that
the public servant must have obtained- (a) for himself, or (b) for any other person, a valuable thing or
pecuniary advantage. It is not necessary that the public servant must do
something in connection with his duty.'-" ed 260 "dokras" largely composed of cotton-seed, kapas
and rubbish, carefully packed into the middle of the
dokras, while all around the sides was placed good ginned
cotton. The admixture of inferior stuﬂ? was found in all
the "dokras", and it varied from 6 to 15 per cent against
the quantity of § or 1% which might be expected ordinarily
to be found in dokras. It was held, that the accused was
guilty of the offence of cheating under section 420 of the
Penal Code. (

(2) Of course, the general rule is2 that a mere breach
of contract cannot give rise to a criminal prosecution.
The distinction between a case of mere breach of contract
and one of cheating depends upon the intention of the
accused at the time of the alleged inducement, which
may be judged by subsequent acts; but the subsequent
act is not the sole criterion of this intention". Where
there is no clear and conclusive evidence of the criminal
intention of the accused at the time the offence is said to
.ave been committed and where the party said to be
aggrieved has an altematiive remedy in a civil court, the

matter should not be allowed to be fought in the criminal
courts". (3) As has been held', the representation can be implied
from conduct5. 'Emp. V. Kauji Sbévaji (1912), I4 Bom. L.R. 137, 14 Indian

559 (Chandavarkar and Bntchclor 15). "*8 I 'Sbeosqgar V. Em_9., (I936 ) 37 Cr. L]. 38, (Patna High C I) F 1. Ah J.) (Money taken for arransinsmar-riage). our ( 32
"SecA.I.R. 1959 Txipun 8. _

W v. Babsya A£.da1,I.L.R. 32 Ca. 941 947 (Paging; and

C . . 50!. tbs has in M.A.Ko1uh v. Em. A.I.R. 1927 Mad. 544. APPENDIX 25

F HINDU LAW REGARDING HIGH PRICES
AND ADULTERATION

SOME PROVISIONS 0

Provisions penalising adulteration and high prices
were known to ancient Hindu law-givers. By way of ex-
ample one may refer to certain texts of "Yajnava1kya1"-- False weights

He who abstracts one-eighth share (of an article sold)
by a (false) measure or balance, shall be ﬁned two
hundred (panas). Where a greater or lower (share is
abstracted), a proportionately (higher or lower ﬁne
should be imposed). Adulteration

He who adulterates with inferior (articles) vendible
medicines, oils, salt, perfumes, corn, coarse sugar and the
like, shall be made to pay sixteen panas. When (by some operation) inferior earth, hide, gem,
yarn, iron, wood, bark, or cloth is made (to appear to be
of) a superior kind, the ﬁne is eight-fold of the (commo- dity) to be sold. Palming 01)'

He who pledges or sells a sealed casket (fraudulently)
substituted (for a superior casket shewn) or the counter-
feit of a natural vessel shall be ﬁned (in the following

manner) . Prices

For those knowing whether (the price set by them)
is higher or lower (than the maximum rates ﬁxed by the
kind) unite in ﬁxing a price too heavy for Karus
(workmen) and Siplins (artisans) the ﬁne is the highest. For those traders who conspire to obstruct (the sale
of a commodity by demanding it), or selling it at an im-
proper price, the highest ﬁne is laid down. The sale or purchase (of articles) should every day be
made at the rates ﬁxed by the king, the proﬁt derived in

this manner is declared (to be) propitious for traders. 'Sen-Gupta, Evolution of Ancient Indian Law, (1953), page 316. { 189 APPENDIX 25 (concld.)

A trader shall make ﬁve per cent as proﬁt on commo-
dities of the same country, and ten (per cent) on the
foreign, if the purchase and sale take place immediately,
(i.e. on the same day as that of the purchase). The rates should be so ﬁxed (by the king) as to be
advantageous both to the buyer and the seller after add-
ing to be (cost) value of the commodity, the expenses in-
curred." APPENDIX 26
F001) ADULTERATION LAvJs¥?bF SOME COUNTRIES

A list of the laws relating to adulteration of food (food
legislation) in some of the countries of the world is given
below:-- Ceylon
A Food and Drugs Act, 1949 is the main law. 'Note prepared mainly on the basis of information contained in (a) Food
and Agriculture Organization (United Nations) pamphlets relating to "Food
Additive Control" in Canada Denmark, Germany, U.K. and France, and (b)
in the Report of the F.A.O. Regional Seminar on Food Legislation for Asia
and Far East (27th August to 3rd September, 1962), F.A.O. Report No.
1582 (Rome 1962). mi
APPENDIX 26 (contd.)

drugs. The general penal sections are sections 106 . and 107
in the 1955 Act. There are certain special punishments
provided for in sections 5(3) , 18(4) , 22(1) , 23(1) . (3),
27(1), 52(4), 55(1), 57(1), (3), 59, _60, 69(2), 100(5) 'and
105(1), (3). Certain additional punishments are provided
for in sections 8(4) , 12 (2) , 68(3) , and Schedule II, para-
graph 5. (There are separate Acts for Scotland etc.)

Duties of administering and enforcing the Act are en-
trusted to the local "Food and Drugs authorities" i.e. the
Common Council of the City of London, the Councils of
many larger boroughs and urban districts and the country
councils. Each food and drug authority has to appoint a
duly qualiﬁed public analyst with the approval of the
appropriate Minister. Sampling ofﬁcers are also appointed
by these authorities. In matters of general interests of
consumers, the Minister of Agriculture and Food may
also direct a departmental officer to procure samples.
Samples are divided into three parts, one part being given
to the seller, the other part being given to the Public
Analyst and the third retained for possible future com-
parison. The Public Analyst analyses with all due expe-
dition the samples, and gives to the sampling oﬁicers a
certiﬁcate showing the result of the analysis. The seller
is entitled to a copy of the certiﬁcate on nominal fee. A
certiﬁcate showing that the sample does not comply with
the law does not necessarily lead to a prosecution, as the
public health inspector (under whose instructions the
sampling oﬂicer usually acts) may ask the seller or manu-
facturer for observations on an adverse report, and the

explanation offered may be considered before a prosecu-
tion is undertaken. The decision to take proceedings usually lies with the
public health committee or the medical officer of health
of the local authority. On the request of a party, the
court may cause the retained part of the sample to be

sent to the Government Chemist for analysis and his
certiﬁcate can be used in evidence. Besides the Act of 1955, the Therapeutic Substances
Act, 1956 is also of interest. France

The basic law in France is the law of 1st August, 1905
for the prevention of fraudulent practices. The purpose
of this law is to check frauds perpetrated in connection
with all merchandise, i.e., all deception or attempt at
deception intended to mislead the buyer as to essentials.
It also provides for checking adulteration of foods, drinks
and drugs etc. As early as the year 1268, a Code was
drawn up by the trade guilds of Paris containing regula- tions applicable to producers and dealers. of foods. The- APPENDIX 26 (contd.)

Code was approved by Provost Etiennee Boileau. Addi-
tion of unauthorised seeds injurious to the human body to
spices from the East was also prohibited. Fines, conﬁsca-
tion, whipping, pillorying of a vendor of rotten eggs and
of the seller of adulterated butter was ordered. A person
who sold watered milk was to have a funnel placed in his
throat, and the watered milk was to be poured down until
a doctor or a barber declared that the man could not
rsvialloxv any more without danger. Articles 423 , 318 and 475 of the French Penal Code of
1810 contain somewhat scanty provisions regarding adul-
teration. But, towards the middle of 19th Century, adul-
{oration and falsiﬁcation of food became increasingly
frequent, as fraudulent operators learnt to exploit skil-
full;/' the progress made by chemistry to cover their un-
lawful activities. Numerous international congresses on
public health, medicine etc. discussed the question of
adulteration of foodstuffs. Ultimately in 1905, it Was
decided to intensify and centralise the controls of foods,
which had been left for long to the mercies of insufficient-
ly skilled municipal officials. Enforcement of the law is mainly under the charge of
the Technical Activities Division of the Ministry of Agri-
culture whose Inspectors carry out inspection- There are
speciﬁed contingents whose jurisdiction is nation-wide.
They exercise special and very strict control over certain
products, such as fruits and vegetables for export, wines,
ﬂour. textiles etc. Laboratory service is extensive, con-
sisting of three Government laboratories and about 100
other approved laboratories, the latter doing part-time
work for prevention of fraud. There are specialised labo-
ratories for dairy products, wines, fertilizers, seeds, etc.
The inspection branch has 270 officials and 110 agents, and
about 200 scientiﬁc personnel. In addition, in Paris, the
Police Department has the Inspection Corps (70 persons)
and there is the Paris Municipal Laboratory (25 persons).
Control of medicine and drugs is exercised by the phar-
macy inspectors; military supplies are checked by special
staff; wholesomeness of water is checked by departmental
inspectors of public health and so on. The perfects are responsible for transmitting to the
Public Prosecutor ﬁles containing reports of violations and
ofﬁcial laboratory results indicating frauds, adulteration, or
a breach of regulation. The Public Prosecutor may- (i) ﬁle the matter, if there is no offence; or (ii) place it before the court, if the evidence is
sufﬁcient, or (iii) send it to the Examining Magistrate if further

information is necessary or if the party concerned
claims the right to submit expert counter-evidence. APPENDIX 26 (c0ntd.)

Fraud and adulteration are punishablenwith imprison-
ment (three months to 2 years) or by ﬁnes. Where
adulteration is injurious to health, imprisonment is
mandatory. Germany

In the Federal Republic of Germany, the Food Act of
1927 and the Colour Act of 1887 are the two main laws;
the former has been extensively amended by the Food Act of 21st December, 1958. Various rules (called Ordinances)
under the two Acts deal with matters of detail. Apart from
the Federal Health Department, the German Research
Association (through its Food Additive Commissions) and
the Federation of Food Law and Food Science do useful
work in preparation of relevant legislation. The German
Research Association has done considerable Work on Food
colouring and food preservatives. The Federation for Food
Law and Food Science consists of members of major food
producing and food trading corporations, and holds a
"mediatory" position between the "stringent demands" of
the Government and the interests of the food industry. The Amendment of 1955, section 4(b) , sub- section 4 speciﬁcally prohibits sale of foods in which there are resi-
dues of insecticide, pesticides, herbicides etc. exceeding the
maximum permissible amount. There are institutes ﬁnanced by the Federal Ministry of
Food which analyse food and determine food additives.
There are such separate institutes for grain, ﬁsh, food pro-
ducts, dairy fat, etc.

Honglcong

Public Health and Urban Service Ordinance, 1960 is the
main law. 7
India. In addition to the Prevention of Food Adulteration Act,
1954 , reference may be made to the Agricultural Products
(Grading and Marketing) Act, 1937 . The Fruit Products
Order of 1955 and Vegetable Oil Products Control Order
also regulate the concerned products. i

Japan

Main laws are Farm Products Inspection Law, Agricul-
tural Standard Law and Export Inspection Law; Law for
the Control of Food and other Articles, 1900; Food Sanita-
tion Law, 1947. Food legislation is administered by the
Ministry of Health and Welfare. Fraudulent sale in any
commodity, including foodstuffs, is dealt with by the Fair
Trade Commission under the Anti-Monopoly Law, -1947. APPENDIX 26 (concld.)

Korea
Food Sanitation Law (20th January, 1962), is the main
law. Malaya

Sale of Food and Drugs Ordinance, 1952 is the main
law. APPENDIX 27
BASIC pnmcrpms non runs roon uws

The two main objectives of food legislation are---- (i) to check adulteration; and (ii) to prevent frauds. in the minds of the public, "pure food" means food that
is wholesome and free from anything that is in any way
harmful to health and free from the addition or substrac-
tion of anything which might impair wholesomeness, and
present to the public in a forthright and factual mannerl.
The consumer has to be safeguarded against dangers to his
health as well as against commercial frauds. Foods are by their very nature products of many differ-
ent varieties, composition and degrees of purity, and are
subject, with respect to production, transportation and
distribution, to many diﬁerent nutritional, hygienic and
labelling requirements. Therefore, the basic law can only
lay down broad general principles, while regulations must
contain detailed provisions governing different categories
of products? In modern times, the minimum standards below which
food should not be sold have also been emphasised, as these

grade standards are important in featuring the produce of
a country and thus gaining a reputation for it. Thus pure food laws deal with (1') health, (ii) frauds, (iii) marketing. At the Regional Seminar on Food Legislation', the
important requirements for facilitating enforcement were
thus described:-- 'F.A.O. Regional Seminar on Food etc. Report, (1962), pagg 7,
"Ibid, page 7. _
3F.A.O. Regional Seminar on Food etc. Report, (x962), page 8- 195 APPENDIX 27 (contd.)

(C) powers of inspection and the procedures to be
followed; (d) penalties; (e) Warranties and guarantees; (f) prohibition of the importation of articles not
complying with the law.". The Seminar recommended 1 that each country should
have same law on the basis of basic principles
given in its Report, that maximum and minimum
penalties be prescribed depending on the nature
and gravity of the offence; that detailed standards
for new, traditional and processed foods may be
prescribed; and that each Government should set up
a Statutory Co-ordinating Committee on Food Control,
consisting of representatives of the various Government
Departments responsible for the many aspects of food legis-
lation (Agriculture, Industry, Trade, Health etc.) and of
trade and manufacturing interests. The Seminar also
stressed the need for immediate steps in establishing appro-
priate training programmes for the ﬁeld staff, laboratory
technicians and other personnel. As regards enforcement, its recommendations may be
quoted in detail":-- The variety and complexity of food legislation justify
these observations:---- Of these ﬁelds, three are of outstanding importance-
the agricultural and veterinary sciences concerned with
raw materials, the chemical sciences concerned with prepa-
ratory measures, and the biological sciences concerned with
the effects of food.'

It should be realised, that "the price of pure food is,
eternal vigilance on the part of the Food Chemists in indus-
try and the Public Analyst"? APPENDIX 28

PROVISIONS IN TASMANIA (AUSTRALIA) VREGARDING ANTI-
SOCIAL, ETC., OFFENCES

I 2

Evasion and avoidance of (1) Stamp Duties Act, 1931
taxes lawfully imposed. Section 23 , subascction. (5) (<1), (6) and (f)- (2) Deceased Persons' Estates
Duties Act, r9311 Section 38 . (3) Land and Income Taxation
Act, 1910. Sections 195 , 197 and 198- (Extracts attached). Adulteration of foodstuffs Public Health Act, 1962.
and drugs. Sections 90 to 98 , and 100 (Not copied). Theft, etc. Sections 226 to 234 Criminat
Code Act 1924. Misuse of their position by Criminal 'Code Act, 1924.
public servants in making of Sections 83 to 87 , I00, 115,.
contracts and disposal of 265, 266 and 297.
public property, issue of (Extracts attached).
licences and permits and
similar other matters. 1A.C. Frazer in "Pure Food and Pure Food Laws" (Edited by Amos)
I53, 155- 2 - . ~ V D

"_[.H. I,-Iamence, in "Pure Food and:Pure- Food Laws" etc. (Edited by
Amos), 5, at page 20. - APPENDIX 28 (contd.)

Copy of sections 195 , 197 and 198 from the Land and InCOme
Taxation Act, 1910. ed by the Commissioner or any officer duly authorised
by him, or to truly and fully answer any questions put
to him, or to produce any book or papers required oi
him by the Commissioner or any such officer; (c) makes or delivers a return which is false in
any particular, or makes any false answer, whether
verbally or in writing; or (d) aids or assists any other person in any manner
whatsoever to commit an offence against paragraph (c)
of this sub--section,

shall be guilty of an offence. Penalty.---Not less than two pounds nor more than one
hundred pounds. (2) A prosecution in respect of an offence against para-
graphs (a), (c), or (d) of sub--section (1) of this section may
be commenced at any time. (3) Any person who, after conviction for an offence
against this section, continues to fail to comply with the
requirements of this Act, or of the Commissioner, in respect
of which he was convicted, shall be guilty of an offence and
p.ur}11i+shable as provided in section one hundred and ninety.
eig .. (4) It shall be a defence to a prosecution for an offence
against paragraph (c) of sub--section (1) of this section if
the defendant proves that the false particulars were given,
or the false statement was made, through ignorance or
inadvertence. 197. If, in any prosecution under paragraph (c) of sub-
section (1) of section 195 , it is proved that the tax-payer has
wilfully made or delivered a false return with intent to
defraud. the amount by which his actual income for the
year in respect of which such return was made. exceeds the
amount of income shown in such return, shall be deemed
to be income tax payable by the tax-payer; and may be
recovered accordingly. '

O ﬂence 5-,

Under- stat ement
of income. . 198. Any person who, by any wilful act, default, or
neglect, or by any fraud, art, or contrivance whatever,
avoids. or attempts to avoid, assessment or taxation, shall
be guilty of an offence. Penaltgt/.----Not less than ﬁfty pounds nor more than ﬁve
hundred pounds, and in addition an amount not exceeding
double the amount of tax payment whereof he has avoided
or attempted to avoid." Copy of sections 83 to 87, 110, 115, 265, 266 and 297 of the
Criminal Code Act, 1924. ceives, or obtains, or agrees to receive or obtain, any
property or beneﬁt of any kind for himself or any other
person on account of anything done or omitted, or to
be done or omitted, by him in or about the discharge
of the duties of his office; or (b) corruptly gives, confers, or procures, or pro-
mises or offers to give, confer, or procure, or attempt
to procure, to, upon, or for any public officer, or any
other person, any property or beneﬁt of any kind on
account of anything done or omitted, or to be done or
omitted, by such ofiicer in or about the discharge of
the duties of his office,

is guilty of a crime. Charge:-- Charge:----Extortion as a public officer. (2) Any public officer who, in the exercise or under
colour of exercising his office, wilfully and unlawfully in-
flicts upon any person any bodily harm, imprisonment, 0
other injury is guilty of a crime. A

Charge : --Oppression. 85. (1) Any public officer who knowingly holds.
directly or indirectly, any personal interest in any con- tract made by or on behalf of the Government of this
State concerning any public matter is guilty of a crime. APPENDIX 28 (Contd.)

Charge:~ «Being interested in a contract as a public
officer. (2) A person is not deemed to be interested in any
such contract as aforesaid because he is a shareholder in
a company of more than twenty members Which IS a
party thereto, unless he is a director of such company. 86. Any person appointed to act as a Valuator or a1"bi- o(§(§$§:,°:_1

trator to determine the Value of any land, or of any in-
jury done to any property Wh0---- (a) having to his knowledge any substantial in-
terest in such property acts as such Valuator or arbi-
trator "without disclosing the fact that he holds such
interest to the person appointing him; or (b) acts corruptly or dishonestly as such Valuator
or arbitrator, {

is guilty of a crime. Charge:---Dishonest dealing as a valuator or as an arbi-
trator. A 1 87. Where by any statute any person is authorised or Iialtfft
required to certify to any fact, any such person who gives ieam-.0" Chm-ge:--Omitting to perform duty as a public oﬂicer. 265. Any public ofﬁcer charged with the receipt, cus- False

idy, or management of any part of the public revenue accou ng
property who knowingly furnishes any false state- 133' Pub C
't or return of any money or property received by him °m°°'
entrusted to his care, or of any balance of money in
possession or under his control, is guilty of a crime. ;'harge:--Falsely accounting as a public oiﬁcer. ,5

, 200

APPENDIX 28 (contd.l
S°°"' , 266. (1) Any person who-- communi- °aﬁGﬂ5' (ca) corruptly gives or agrees to give, or offers to

an agent, or to any other person on his behalf; or (b) being an agent, corruptly solicits, receives,
obtains, or agrees to accept for himself or any person
other than his principal,

any gift or consideration as an inducement or reward for
'1'' ~-_,, doing or iorbearing to do, or for having done or forborne
. I to do, any act in relation to the principal's affairs or busi-
ness, or for showing or forbearing to show favour or dis-
favour to any person in relation to the same, is guilty of

a crime. C'h.a.rge:--Corruption in relation to business. (2) Any person who knowingly gives to an agent, or
any agent who knowingly receives or uses with intent to
deceive his principal, any receipt, account, or other do-
cument in respect of which his principal is interested or
which relates t.o any dealing, transaction, or matter in
which his principal is interested, and which contains any
statement which is false or erroneous, or defective in any
material particular, is guilty of a crime. Cho'.rge:=~Corruptly using a false document.
(3) For the purposes of this section- (cz) "agent" includes any person employed by
or acting for another, and' any person serving under
the Crown or under any corporation or public body; (1)) "consideration" means any kind of valuable
consideration; (c) "principal" includes any employer. (4) In any proceedings under this section, where it is
proved that any consideration has been solicited or re-
ceived by an agent from, or given or offered to an agent
by, any person having business relations with the prin-
cipal, the burden of proving that such consideration was
not solicited, received, given, or offered in contravention
of the provisions of this section shall be on the accused.
In any such proceedings as aforesaid it shall be a defence
to prove that the consideration was solicited, received,
given, or offered with the principal's knowledge, and Eat
he was aware of all factsmaterial to the transaction. Canspiract? 297. (1) Any person who conspires with another--- (c) to kill any person, whether a subject of ' His
Majesty or not, and whether he is in this State .01'
elsewhere, under circumstances which, if he were
killed in this State, would constitute murder; APPENDIX 23 {(:onc:1d.j

(F3) to obstruct. prevent, pervert, or defeat the
due course of justice, or the adrninistrati-on of the law,
whether such purpose is to he eﬁected in this State

or elsewhere; (C) to commit any crime; (ti) to cheat or defraud the public, or any porti-
oulor person, or class -of persons; (2) to extort, by any means, any property what.-
ever from any person; (f) to inﬂict by any unlawful means any injury

or harm upon the public, or any particular person or
class of persons; (9) to facilitate the seduction of a woman; U2.) to do any act involving, and known to he
likely to involve, public mischief; or (i) to do any act Without lawful justification or
excuse with intent thereby to injure any person,

is guilty of a crime. Charge: --Conspiracy. (2} A husband and wife are not criminally resppnsible
for any conspiracy between themselves only. {3} Nothing in this section shall affect the provisions
of the Trades Unions Act, 1839, or of the Conspiracy and
Protection of Property Act, 1389." APPENDIX 29
Cananian Laws as T0 Ania-sociat, me. oneness

(1) Economic Crimes

(17; Revised Statutes of Canada, 1952, Ch. 314, The
Combines Investigation Act. (3) Evasion of Taxes

(if) Revised Statutes of Canada, 1952, Ch. 53, The
Customs Act . ' (ii) Revised Statutes of Canada, 1952, Ch. 6!}, The
Customs Tariff Act . (iii) Revised Statutes of Canada, 195-2, Ch. 99, The
Excise Act . (in) Revised Statutes of Canada, 1952, Ch. 148. Income-tax Act . (3) Misuse of position by public servants (i) Canadian Criminal Code---Sections '-103'
(extracts attao-bed) - - I,
)(
/
/'

21.32

APPENDIX 29 (contd.J

(4) Delivery of sub-standard goods
(71) Canadian Criminal Code--se-ction 2, sub-
section (36), sections 36El----363. (extracts attached]
(5) P-rofiteeri-rig etc.
Not cognizable as offences in Canada. (6) Adultemtion of food etc. (i) Revised Statutes of Canada, 1952, Ch. 123, Food
and Drugs Act. (ii) Revised Statutes of Canada, 1952, Ch. '[26,
Fruit, Vegetables and Honey Act. (iii) Revised Statutes of Canada, 1952, Ch. 177,
The Meat and Canned Goods Act. (These Statutes deal with the processing, packaging,
inspection and control of sanitary conditions as well as
purity of the products concerned). (3?) Theft, etc.
Canadian Criminal Code-- section 269 , 280 , 283 .
(8) Trafficking in licences, etc.

No speciﬁc provision exists except general provi-
sions as to misuse of position by public servants. Exmscrs FROM CANADIAN CRIMINAL Cons, 1955
Sections 99-103 99. In this Part,

(:1) "Evidence" means an assertion of fact, opinion,
belief or knowledge Whether material or not and
whether admissible or not; (to) "Government" means (i) the Government of Canada, (ii) the Government of a province, or (iii) Her Majesty in right of Canada or in
right of a province; (c) "Judicial proceeding" means a proceeding (i) in or under the authority of a court oi
justice or before a grand jury, (ii) before the Senate or House of Commons
of Canada or a Committee of the Senate or House
of Commons, or before a legislative council, legis-
lative assembly or house of assembly or a com- . mittee thereof that is authorized by law to admi-
bister an oath,
of-{iii} before a court, judge, justice, rriaglstrate

VQPEY, , l
'\

'x .4 293 APPENDIX 29 lcontdfl (iv) before an arbitrator or umpire, or a
person or bodv of persons authorised by law to
make an inquiry and take evidence therein under
oath, or ' l

to) before a tribunal by which a legal right
or legal liability may be established, whether or
not the proceeding is invalid for want of jurisdic-
tion or for any other reason; (cl) "Ofﬁce" includes (i) an oﬁice or appointment under the govern-
ment,

(iii a civil or military commission, and (iii) a position or employment in at public
department; 5 (e) "Ofﬁcial" means a- person who
(71) holds an oﬂice, or (ii) is appointed to discharge a public duty: 100. (1) Bribery of Judicial Oﬂicers, etc.--Every one
who l
(ct) being the holder of a judicial oiﬁce, or being
a member of the Parliament of Canada or of a legis-
lature, corruptly (i) accepts or obtains,
(it) agrees to accept, or (iii) attempts to obtain, any money, valuable
consideration, oﬁice, place or employment for him-
self or another person in respect of anything done
or omitted or to' be done or omitted by him in his
official capacity; or (b) gives or offers corruptly to a person who holds
a judicial office, or is a member of the Parliament of
Canada or of a legislature, any money, valuable con-
sideration, oﬂice, place or employment in respect of
anything done or omitted or to be done or omitted by
him in his official capacity for himself or another
person,
is guilty of an indictable offence and is liable to irnprison
ment for fourteen years. (2) Consent of Attorney Genera].--.N0 procernggs
against a person who holds a judicial oﬁice shall {in 1" 101. Every one who . . (aft B'rii:~e:y of O_ﬁicers--bein_g a justice, police
commissioner, peace officer, public officer, or officer
of a juvenile court, or being employed in the adminis-
tration of criminal law, corruptly (i) accepts or obtains,

(it) agrees to accept, or (iii) attempts to obtain, for himself _ or any
other person any money, valuable consideration.
office, place or employment with intent

I

(in) to interfere with the administration of. justice, , t
(15) to procure or facilitate the commission of

r

an oﬁence, or , . (vi) to protect from detection or punishment
a person who has committed or who intends to
commit an oﬁence; or (ii) Icle-m----gives or offers, corruptly, to a person
mentioned in paragraph (a) any money, valua-ble con-
sideration, oﬁice, place or employment with intent that
the person should do anything mentioned in sub-para-
graph (in), [11] or (vi) of paragraph (ct),

is guilty of an indictable oifence and is liable to imprison.
ment for fourteen years. 102. (1) Frauds upon the Gooemment--Every one com-
mits an offence who
(ct) Offer or gift to inﬂuence oﬂicia.l»--directl3* or
indirectly
{i} gives, offers, or agrees to give or offer to
an oiiicial or to any member of his family, or to
any one for the beneﬁt of an oflicial, or
ﬂit) being an official, demands, accepts or
oﬁers or agrees to accept from any person for him-
self or another -person, a loan, reward, advantage
or beneﬁt of any kind as consideration for co-
operation, assistan-::e,~ exercise of inﬂuence or an
act or omission in connection with (iii) the transaction of business with or any
matter of business relating to the government, or
(iv] a claim against Her Majesty or any bene-
ﬁt that Her Majesty is authorised or is entitled to
bestow, whether or not, in fact, the official is able
to co-operate, render assistance, exercise inﬂuence
or do or omit to do What is proposed, as the case
may be; _

Dufig) Giving reward oi-acommission to oﬂicial with-
'sent-----hav1ng-dealmgs of any kind -with thg 205 APPENDIX 29 (C01'1'Ld.)

government, pays a commission or reward to or con-
fers an advantage or beneﬁt of any kind upon an em-
ployee or official of the government with which he
deals, or to any member of his family, or to any one
for the beneﬁt of the employee or ofﬁcial, with respect
to those dealings, unless he has the consent in writing
of the head of the branch of government with which he
deals, the proof of which lies upon him; (c) Acceptance of Commission or Gift without
co:rtsent----beiI1g an ofﬁcial or employee of the govern-
ment, demands, accepts or offers or agrees to accept
from a person who has dealings with the govern-
ment a commission, reward, advantage or beneﬁt of
any kind directly or indirectly, by himself or through
a member of his family or through any one for his bene-
ﬁt, unless he has the consent in writin of the head of
the branch of government that emp oys him or of
which he is an oﬁicial, the proof of which lies upon
him; _ (d)_ Compensation for procuring settlement of
claim, etc.--ha-ving or pretending to have influence
with the government or with a minister of the gov-
ernment or an official, demands, accepts or offers or
agrees to accept for himself or another person a re-
ward, advantage or beneﬁt? ofany kind as consider-
ation for co-operation, assistance, exercise of inﬂu-
ence or an act or omission in connection with (i) anything mentioned in sub-paragraph (iii) or (to) of paragraph (a),

_ (ii) the appointment of any person, including
himself, to an ofﬁce; or

'52) Offer of reward for-cppointment---offers, gives
or agrees to offer or give to a- minister of the govern-
ment or an official a reward, advantage or beneﬁt of
any kind as consideration for co-operation, assistance,
exercise of inﬂuence or a-n act or omission in connec-
tion with (i) anything mentionedin sub-para-graph (iii)
or (in) of paragraph (:1), or

I (ii) the appointment of any person, including
himself, to an oﬂice; or

if} Reward for Iwithdmwal of tender----having
made a tender to obtain a contract with the government

ti) gives, offers or agrees to give to another
person who has made a tender, or to a member In
his f«'iIT1i1?}r'. 01' f0 another person for the bene L
that person, a reward, advantage or beneﬁt 0%,': {2} Contractor subscribing to election fimd.--Every
one commits an oﬁence who, in order to obtain
or retain a contract with the government or as a term of
any such contract, azhether express or implied, directly or
indirectly subscribes, gives, or agrees to subscribe or give,
to any person any valuable consideration (a) for the purpose of promoting the election of a
candidate or a class or party of candidates to the Par-
liament of Canada or legislature, or

[b) with intent to inﬂuence or affect in any way
the result of an election conducted for the purpose of
electing persons to serve in the Parliament of Canada
or a legislature. (3) Pun.ishment.---Every one who commits an oﬁence
under this section is guilty of an indictable offence and is
liable to imprisonment for ﬁve years. 103. Breach of Trust cry Public 0ﬁicer.--Every official
who, in connection with the duties of his oﬂice, commits
fraud or a breach of trust is guilty of an indictable oﬁence
and IS liable to imprisonment for ﬁve years, whether or
not the fraud or breach of trust would be an oiience if it
were committed in relation to a private person. EXTRACTS FROM CANADIAN CRIMINAL CODE Section 2(36) and sections 360-363. 2. (36) "Public stores" includes any movable property
that is under the care, supervision, administration or con-
trol of a public department or of any person in the service
of a public department; 360. (1) Applying or removing marks without autho-
?'ify.------Every one who, (a) 'without lawful authority, the proof of which
lies upon him, applies a distinguishing mark to any
thing. or e (b) with intent to conceal the property' of Her
Majesty in public stores, removes, destroys or obli-
terates, in whole or in part, -a distinguishing mark,

is guilty of an indictable offence and is liable to" imprison-
ment for two years. _ _
Wig} Unlawful tra-nsactions in public stores.+--Every one
himwithout lawful authority, the proof of which lies upon
Stofesseives, possesses, keeps, sells or delivers public
of '-t' he knows bear a distinguishing mark is guilty

29'? APPENDIX 253] (contd.) (a) an indictable oitence and is liable to imprison-
ment for two Years, or

(5) an .;_:ﬁ«__=]f1_Ce punishable on summary conviction. (3) "Distinguishing trnm-lc".--Fo1~ the purposes of this
section, "distinguishing mark" means a distinguishing mark
that is appropriated for use on public stores pursuant to
section 359. 361. {1} Selling defective stores to Her Majesty.----Every
one who knowingly sells or delivers defective stores to Her
Majesty or commits fraud in connection with the sale, lease
or delivery of stores to Her 1'-Iajest:-V or the manufacture of
stores for Her Majesty is guilty of an indictable offence and
is liable to imprisonment for fourteen years. (2) Oﬁences by officers and employees of corporations.--
Every one who being a director, oﬂicer, agent or employee
of a corporation that commits, 'off fraud, an offence under
sub-section (1),

(ct) knowingly takes part in the fraud, or

{b} knows or has reason to suspect that the fraud
is being committed or has been or is about to be com-
mitted and does not in;Eorm the responsible government
or a department thereof, of Her Majesty,

is guilty of an indictable oﬂence and is liable to imprison-
ment for fourteen years. 362-. Unlawful use of military uniforms or cer1:iﬁcates.~--
Every one who without lawful authority, the proof of
which lies upon him,

to) wears a uniforrn of the Canadian Forces or any
other naval, army or air tome or a unﬁorm that is so
similar to the uniform of anyof those forces that it is
likely to be mistaken therefor. {hi wears a distinctive mark relating to wounds re-
ceived or service performed in war, or a military medal,
ribbon, badge, chevron or any decoration or order that
is awarded for war services, or any imitation thereof_
or any mark or device or thing that is likely to be mis-
taken for any such mark, medal, ribbon, badge, chevron,
decoration or order,

(Cl has in his possessiﬁn a certiﬁcate of discharge,
certiﬁcate of release, statement of service or identity
card from the Canadian Forces or any other naval, army
or air force that has not been issued to and does nr
belong to him, or m

.41 (d) has in his possession arommission or ,)a:at¢.-.--
or a certiﬁcate of discharge, certi ate of releizcer or
ment of service or identity card ssued to 39/

/
/

/. APPE NDIX 29 [concld.)

person in or who has been in the Canadian Forces or
any other naval, army or air force, that contains any
alteration that is not veriﬁed by the initials of the oiﬁcer
thereto lawfully authorised,

is guilty of an offence punishable on summary conviction. 363. (I) Mﬂitary sto'res.--Every one who buys, receives
or detains from a member of the Canadian Forces or a
deserter or absentee Without leave from those forces any
military stores that are owned by Her Majesty or for which
the member, deserter or absentee without leave is account-
able to Her Majesty' is guilt)' of

(05) an indictable offence and is liable to imprison-
ment for ﬁve years, or (b) an olience punishable on summary conviction. (2) E:cception.--No person shall be convicted of an
offence under this section where he establishes that he did
not know and had no reason" to suspect that the military
stores in respect of which the offence was committed
were owned by Her Majesty or were military stores for
which the member, deserter or absentee without leave was
accountable to Her Majesty. APPENDIX 30

CONSPIRACY -ro COMMIT PUBLIC MISCHIEF'--ENGLISH LAW'. 1. A brief discussion of the offence of conspiracy as
known to English law appears to be useful, first, because
it has been used often to punish a conspiracy to defraud, and
secondly, because its wide scone is illustrated by certain
recent decisions'. 2. The following statement in one text-book" seems to
sum up the law neatly: -- is a common law niisdemeanour punishable with .a ﬁne
and imprisonment.''. 3. The offence covers not only a conspiracy to commit a
breach of statute, but also an agreement to contravene a
law, whether statute-made or otherwise'-2. 4. That the offence has not become obsolete, will be
shown by the charges of conspiracy framed in connection
with the recent Great Train Robberjﬁ, and the charges of
"conspiracy to pervert the course of justice" framed against
Detective Sergeant Challenor' (later found to be insane and
unﬁt to plead), and the case-law relating to conspiracy to
commit summary offences'. 5. Certain species of the offence of conspiracy in crimi-
nal law have become controversial". Of these, the cons-
piracy "to corrupt the public morals" and to commit a pub-
lic mischief is one'. The recent decision of the House of Lords'?-9 leaves no
doubt that the law recognises such a conspir'aoy1"-'1, 6. Some important instance of conspiracy to defraud"?
may be noted. Agreements to do the following things
have been regarded as punishable as conspiracy to de-
fraud- 1See R. v. Jacobs. 1944 I All Eng. Rep. 435- (:9 ) K.B, » 33 S 1' _
citors' Journal, 188; and discussion thereof in .éabu.l:14V. King4.IE?rr.;p., Aflli.
I945 Nag. 218, 221 (Vivian Bose ].). S "'Fo-r earlier cases, see Stallybrass, 'Public lvﬁschicf' (I933) 49 L.Q.R
3, 191. l1For earlier cases see Stallybrass "Public Mischief" (1933), 4:" (iv) to make and publish a false balance-sheet,
misrepresenting the ﬁnancial condition of Company'. (v) to defraud a railway by obtaining non-trans-
ferable excursion tickets and selling them to other'? 7. The common law olfence of conspiracy can be used -'.;'or frauds in relation to passports, it seems". 8. As to conspiracies and strikes, see discussion in the

* under--rnentioned study'. - 9. In New Zealand3-", the offence of conspiracy has
been narrowed down to speciﬁc classes of conspiracy. An important feature of the crime of conspiracy to
defraud is that it does not require "false pretence". As
has been pointed out", the crime of obtaining by false
pretences requires a false pretence, but conspiracy to de-
fraud does not. '

Another feature worth noting is that the obtaining

i of property or the "execution: of some kind of document,

which is necessary 'for the offence" obtaining by false
pretences in English law, is not necessary for conspiracy". ' Thus, where the buyer of a mare entered into plan with

another person to deceive the seller into supposing that
the mate was unsound (so that the seller agreed to
accept less than the price originally; ﬁxed), the plan was
held to be punishable as conspiracy to defraud the seller
of the balance of price, though no property was obtained". De Bmmger (1814), 3 M 5: S. 67 . See Turner and Armitagc; - Cages on Criminal Law (1964), page 161 (as explained in R. v. Aspinal,
_. in a.). = R. v. Aspimzzi (1876), 2 Q.a.n. 43, 'so (C. EL). In a recent case". an agreement by a debtor (entering
into a scheme of arrangement) to confer a fraudulent
preference upon one creditor was regarded as punishable
as conspiracy. Though the actual decision does not go to
the length of holding that it was a conspiracy to def-rauol,
the cases cited in the arguments for the Crown" throw
a good deal of light on the subject, and also show that
ultimately such agreements are "bottomed in fraud, which
is a species of irnmora]ity""'. ..--.._4. APPENDIX 31

Pnoeo-sass AS snows IN THE FORM or DRAFT AI\'IE1'-1D1\u1EN'l.'S
to THE INDIAN PENAL Conn

(This is a tentative draft only} 1. After section 3TB of the lntlien Penal Code (herein-
after called "the Code"), the following section shall be
inserted, naInely:-- (c] :1 local authority." 2. After section 420 of the Code, the following section
shall be inserted, nan1el{r:_--- H "4.-2.{lA. Whoetver, int pursuance
for the delivery of any goods, the construction of any
huzldmg or eacec-utéon of other work, cheats the Goo-
ernment or other public outhori.ty-- . {9} in the case of a contract for the delivery m'"')
0f 90945, by Supplying goods which are less in
q'u~tmftt*y than, or *mfen'm~ in quoiity to, those be
contracted to deliver, or which are otherwise -not
in accordance with the contract, or

of any contract Section

sung
public

'R~V- W7u'rr=Fi='r (19143. 3 KJ3. I233 {C.('_.'.[-1.}. Bﬁalsburgr, std Edn. Vol. 10, page 313, para 579. 3R. v Potter, (1953), I All Eng. Reports, 295,

'See the :a.rg-urne;nts of Veale, Q. C. for the C,mw_n_ ,

'Cf. Cockshott v. Banner: (1733), 2. Term Re, 755,- me English 3,. ports 4 I1. 7 /" tion of a building or execution of other work, by
using goods which are less in quantity than, or
inferior in quality to, those he contracted to use,
or -which are otherwise not in accordance with the

contract, - shall be punished with imprisonment of either des-
Cf. _ cription for a term which may extend to seven years,
Sﬁctlﬁnd. and shalt be also liable to ﬁne.
Iﬁjggilgoﬁf E:-tplanatic-n.----In this section, '''public authority" CJ'- Section section 617 of the Companies Act, 1955; and '
::1,Tweifth,
clause (c) a local authority. Indian
Penal '
Code: as APPENDIX 32
amended
5, 4 PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO THE Coma OF CHIMINAI
b Act o A
of 1964. PROCEDURE, 1898. [This is a tentative draft only)

In the Second Schedule to the Code of Criminal Pro« 5 °'5'139~3=
cedure, 18981,- (i) after the entry relating to section 379, the
following entry shall be inserted, namely:---- I 2 3 4 5 6 . 7 3
3799; Theft of May Warrant No! Not com- Irnprison- 2-'£113.'
public arrest hail- p0und- ment of Magis-
property without able able either des- tratc
warrant cription for
7 '_l'EE.l'5
and line (ii) a-fter theentryr relating to section 420, the
following entry shall be inserted, nan.'1e1y:-- 1Thcse-u-nzetldments are consequential on those proposed in the Indian
Penal Code . GMG11=ND--T.s.s ,_.4-,r M. of Law---3--I-6B--1,85o.