Comments: (Spirit of Islam by Syed Ameer Ali at p.288-89) 107 5. The Sacred Compilation Hadith Sahih Muslim (Vol.-I) 142

 & 142R1 reveal that the Holy Prophet commanded that ruler

 must be honest in his dealing with those over whom he rules

 otherwise the ruler is cheater. Commentator explains that

 the Hadiths says that it is duty of the ruler to see that the life

 and honour of the subject people are protected and to ensure

 just social, political and economic system. Said Hadith as

 well as comments thereon read as follows: 6. The Sacred Compilation Hadith Sahih Muslim (Vol.-III)

 1827-1829 reveal that Holy Prophet said that the ruler is a

 shepherd over the people and shall be questioned about his

 subjects as to how he conducted their affairs and if he is

 hard upon them, the Almighty will be hard upon him. Said

 Hadiths read as follows: 7. The Sacred Compilation Hadith Sahih Muslim (Vol.-III)

 1839, 1840R1 reveal that Holy Prophet commanded the

 Muslims not to do a sin and if he is ordered to do a sinful

 act by the commander, a Muslim should neither listen to

 him nor should he obey his orders. The said Hadiths read as

 follows: 8. The Sacred Compilation Hadith Sahih Muslim (Vol.-III)

 1854 & 1854R1 reveal that the Holy Prophet has

 commanded that Muslims should not approve bad deed of

 the Amirs i.e. the rulers. Said Hadith reads as follows: 9. The Sacred Compilation Hadith Sahih Muslim (Vol.-III)

 1855R1 reveals that the Holy Prophet has commanded the 110 Muslims to condemn such act of their rulers which is an act

 of disobedience to God i.e. the Holy ordinances of the Allah

 and his Holy Messenger. Said Hadith reads as follows: 10.The Sacred Compilation Jami' At-Tirmidhi (Vol.-4) Hadith

 2174 reveals that the Holy Prophet said that making a just

 statement before tyrannical ruler is a greatest type of Jihad.

 Said Hadith reads as follows: (Hasan)

 From the said Hadith it is crystal clear that greatest Jihad

 would be to curse action of a tyrant ruler converting a

 temple into mosque in flagrant violation of Divine

 commands of Shar. 11.The Sacred Compilation Hadith Sahih Bukhari 3.627-629

 reveal that the Holy Prophet has strictly commanded to

 avoid oppression. Said Hadiths read as follows: 12. The Sacred Compilation Jami' At-Tirmidhi (Vol.-4) Hadith

 2030 reveals that the Holy Prophet has cursed oppression. Said

 Hadith reads as follows; 13.The Sacred Compilation Jami' At-Tirmidhi (Vol.-4) Hadith

 2324 reveals that the Holy Prophet has said that this world is

 a prison for Muslims and as the prisoner is not free to lead

 the life of his choice and is bound by the law of the prison

 and the whims of its officers in the similar manner Muslims

 are also not free to lead life of their choice and they are

 bound by the law of Shar. Said Hadith as well as the 112 comment thereto read as follows: 14.The Sacred Compilation Jami' At-Tirmidhi (Vol.-5) Hadith

 2683 reveals that the Holy Prophet has directed the Muslims

 to refrain from any kind of major and minor sins. Said

 Hadith and comment thereto read as follows: 15.The Sacred Compilation Jami' At-Tirmidhi (Vol.-5) Hadith

 2687 reveals that the Holy Prophet has commanded the 113 Muslims to accept everything that is good and perfect

 setting aside the worldly benefits, objectives and lusts. Said

 Hadith and comments thereto read as follows: 16.The Sacred Compilation Jami' At-Tirmidhi (Vol.-5) Hadith

 2826 reveals that if there is anyone to whom the Holy

 Prophet has made a promise it must be complied by the

 Rulers. Said Hadith read as follows: (Sahih) 17.The Muwatta' Imam Malik 959 and 960 reveal that the

 Muslims should neither break vows nor kill disbelievers

 breaking promise of protection given to him. Said Muwatta

 nos. 959 & 960 read as follows: 18.The Sacred Compilation Jami' At-Tirmidhi (Vol.-4) Hadith

 2305 reveals that the Holy Prophet has said that a person

 who acts as guard against the unlawful, is kind to his

 neighbour and loves the people as he loves himself is

 Muslim, otherwise not. The said Hadith reads as follows: 19.The Sacred Compilation Jami' At-Tirmidhi (Vol.-4) Hadith

 1987 reveals that the Holy Prophet has commanded the

 Muslims to follow an evil deed with a good one to wipe it

 out and treat the people with good behavior . Said Hadith

 reads as follows: ( Spirit of Islam by Syed Ameer Ali at p.272) 6. The 'Spirit of Islam' (at p.273) records the facts that the

 Holy Prophet gave guarantee of freedom of religion to the

 Christians of Najram and the neighboring territories, inter

 alia, stating that there would be no interference with the

 practice of their faith, monks would not be removed from

 their Monastery and no image would be destroyed. Relevant

 extract from the said book reads as follows: 121 (Spirit of Islam by Syed Ameer Ali at p.273) 7. The 'Spirit of Islam' (at p.273-74) records the facts that

 during the reign of Caliphs, the people of other faith i.e.

 Zimmis were allowed to carry out processions, observe

 festivals, beat drums, erect places of worship. Relevant

 extract of the said book reads as follows: ... (Spirit of Islam by Syed Ameer Ali at p.273-74)

 It is further submitted that according to the Holy Prophet in

one land there cannot be two Qibalahs or Idgah & mosque, as such

Sri Ramjanmasthan Temple and a mosque cannot co-exists in

disputed site. His submissions are as under:- 7. The Sacred Compilation Jami' At-Tirmidhi (Vol.-5) Hadith

 2684 reveals that two things will not be together in a

 hypocrite that is to say good manners and fiqh in the

 religion. Said Hadiths and comments thereto read as

 follows: (Da'if) 8. The Sacred Compilation Jami' At-Tirmidhi (Vol.1) Hadith

 321 reveals that Masjid cannot be used as a home nor a

 place for gossiping. Relevant portion of said Hadith reads

 as follows: In view of the fact that during the ASI's excavation at suit

 premises a chulha (an oven) has been found. It leaves no

 doubt that said structure was being used as home of Hindu

 deity and chulha was being used for preparing food for the 127 deity as such said structure cannot be inferred to be a

 Masjid. 9. The Sacred Compilation Jami' At-Tirmidhi (Vol.1) Hadith

 229 reveals that the Holy Prophet had commanded the

 Muslims not to pray between two columns. Said Hadith

 reads as follows: Mahommedan Law by Syed Ameer Ali, 5th Edn. Reprint 2009, published by Hind Publishing
 House,Allahabad, p.418 & 419)

 "Every ground set apart for prayers is not necessarily
 a musallah and subject to the rules governing a
 mosque. A musalla is a place where funeral prayers
 or the prayers of the two Ids are usually offered. In
 such cases only the place where the congregation
 gather and the worship is performed that is governed
 by the rules governing a mosque. (Ibid. p.420)
 Sri P.N. Mishra, Advocate has further argued that Hindus

were recognized as Zimmis by the Great Iman Abu Haneef as such

Emperor Babar being follower of said Imam's school had no right

to errect mosque over Hindu Shrine. His submissions are as

under:- IDOLATOR HINDUS WERE RECOGNIZED AS 129 ZIMMIS BY THE GREAT IMAM ABU HANEEF AS SUCH

EMPEROR BABAR BEING FOLLOWER OF SAID IMAM'S

SCHOOL HAD NO RIGHT TO ERECT MOSQUE OVER

HINDU SHRINE: Relevant extract from page 198 of the English Translation of

 the said book ["History of the rise of the Mahomedan Power

 in India till the year AD 1612" translated by John Briggs

 first published in 1829 reprinted in 2006 by Low Price

 Publications, Delhi] reads as follows: From the said Hadith it can be inferred that superiority to the

 learned jurist has been given only for the purpose to tell the

 people what is right or wrong according to religion. Said

 Hadiths read as follows: (Hadith Sahih Bukhari 4.386 at p.837) 3. The Sacred Compilation Hadith Sahih Bukhari 4.404 p.843-

 844 reveals that asylum to non-Muslims living in Muslim

 territory was granted by Allah and His Holy Apostle.

 Relevant extract of the said Hadith reads as follows: (Hadith Sahih Bukhari 4.404 at p.844) 4. Sacred Compilation Hadith Sahih Muslim (Vol. III) Hadith

 1731R1 p.180-181 reveals that when Holy Prophet

 appointed anyone as commander of an army he specially

 commanded them to invite the enemies who are polytheists

 to three course of action and if they respond anyone of these

 the commander must accept it and keep from doing them

 any harm. Out of three options one was to demand Jizya

 from the people who refused to accept Islam and if they

 agree to pay no harm should be done to them. The said

 Hadith reads as follows: 5. Sacred Compilation Hadith Sahih Muslim (Vol. III) Hadith

 1732 and 1733 p.182 reveal that when Holy Prophet deputed 135 anyone of his Companions on a mission he always directed

 him to show leniency and not to create aversion towards

 religion. The said Hadiths read as follows: 6. Sacred Compilation Hadith Sahih Bukhari 2.559 p.381,

 4.387 p.837, and 5.351 p.1103-1104 reveal that Holy

 Prophet allowed the King of Aila as well as Bahrain who

 were non-Muslims to remain and rule over their respective

 countries subject to payment of Jizya. Relevant extract from

 the Hadith 2.559 and 5.351 as well as full text of Hadith

 4.387 read as follows: (Hadith Sahih Bukhari 2.559 at p.381)

 "Narrated Abu Humaid As-Saidi: We accompanied
 the Prophet in the Ghazwa of Tabuk and the king of
 Aila presented a white mule and a cloak as a gift to
 the Prophet. And the Prophet wrote to him a peace
 treaty allowing him to keep authority over his
 country." (Hadith Sahih Bukhari 4.387 at p.837)

 "...Allah's Apostle sent Abu 'Ubaida bin Al-Jarrah to 136 Baharain to bring the Jizya taxation from its people,
 for Allah's Apostle had made a peace treaty with the
 people of Baharain and appointed Al-'Ala' bin Al-
 Hadrami as their ruler. So, Abu 'Ubaida arrived with
 the money from Baharain...." (Hadith Sahih Bukhari 5.351 at p.1104) 7. Sacred Compilation of Jami' At-Tirmidhi (Vol. 3) Hadith

 1587 and 1588 p.355 reveal that Holy Prophet took Jizya

 from the Zoroastrians of Hazar & Bahrain, Caliph Umar and

 Caliph Uthman took it in Persia from Persians. The said

 Hadiths read as follows: Jami' At-Tirmidhi (Vol. 3) Hadith 1587 and 1588 at p.355 8. Sacred Compilation Hadith Sahih Bukhari 2.475, 4.287,

 4.388 and 5.50 reveal the recommendation of Caliph Umar

 to his successor to abide by the rules and regulations

 concerning the Jimmis/Dhimmis (protectees). Relevant

 portion of the said Hadiths read as follows: (Hadith Sahih Bukhari 2.475 at p.355)

 "... Narrated 'Amr bin Maimun: Umar (after he was 137 stabbed), instructed (his would-be-successor) saying,
 "I urge him (i.e. the new Caliph) to take care of those
 non-Muslims who are under the protection of Allah
 and His Apostle in that he should observe the
 convention agreed upon with them, and fight on their
 behalf (to secure their safety) and he should not over-
 tax them beyond their capability." (Hadith Sahih Bukhari 4.287at p.798)

 "... Narrated Juwairiya bin Qudama at-tamimi: We
 said to 'Umar bin Al-Khattqab, O Chief of the
 believers! Advise us." He said, "I advise you to fulfill
 Allah's Convention (made with the Dhimmis) as it is
 the convention of your prophet and the source of the
 livelihood of our dependents (i.e. the taxes from the
 Dhimmis.)". (Hadith Sahih Bukhari 4.388 at p.837)

 "... I also recommend him concerning Allah's and His
 Apostle's protectees (i.e. Dhimmis) to fulfill their
 contracts and to fight for them and not to overburden
 them with what is beyond their ability." (Hadith Sahih Bukhari 5.50 at p.1004) 9. The Sacred Compilation Hadith Sahih Bukhari 4.657 reveals

 that the Holy Prophet said that incarnation of Jesus would

 abolish Jizyah from non-Muslims. The said hadith reads as

 follows: 10.The Sacred Compilation Hadith Sahih Bukhari 8.809 and

 8.825 reveal that the Holy Prophet administered justice to a

 Jew according to his scripture Torah. The said Hadith reads

 as follows: fbx8.825: Again it is submitted that since Babur was not the owner of

Hindu Shrine of Shri Ramjanamsthan, he or his subordinates had

no right to erect mosque and any building erected contrary to

religious mandate of Islam cannot acquire the character of

Mosque, as such the disputed structure was all along a Hindu

temple and a sacred shrine. His submissions are as under:- According to the Divine Law of Shar a Muslim can erect 140 Masjid only on such land of which he is lawful owner and

 he can create Wakf only of his own lawful property. Unless

 the first prayer was offered with permission of the lawful

 owner even dedication of Masjid and Wakf by user can not

 be claimed. Shar does not permit conversion of a Temple

 into a Mosque and says that even if a mansion was given by

 a Jimmi to Muslims for their using it as Masjid, after death

 of such Jimmi his said mansion goes back to his heirs.

 Suffice to say that according to Shar the Wakif must be

 owner of the property at the time of its dedication otherwise

 Wakf is invalid. As Emperor Babur was not owner of the

 Suit-land, alleged creation of Wakf for Masjid and

 Graveyard was ab initio void and the Plaintiffs are not

 entitled for the reliefs as prayed for in the instant Suit. 2. The Sacred Compilation Hadith Sahih Bukhari 3.92 as well

 as Sacred Compilation Hadith Sahih Muslim (Vol.-I) 524

 reveal that the first Mosque in Madina was built by the Holy

 Prophet on the land which was gifted to the Holy Prophet by

 its owners, wherefrom it becomes crystal clear that a

 Mosque can be built by the Wakif only on the land

 acquired/procured lawfully. Said Hadiths read as follows: 3.92: The relevant extract of the 'Spirit of Islam' reads as follows: 4. The Sacred Compilation Hadith Sahih Bukhari 3.895 reveals

 that the Ist wakf in the history of Islam was created by

 Caliph Umar of the land owned by him in Khaibar after

 obtaining permission of the Holy Prophet, wherefrom it 142 becomes crystal clear that wakif must be owner of the land.

 Said Hadith reads as follows: 5. In the book 'Ibn Battuta Ki Bharat Yatra' Ibn Battuta writes

 that he was given fund and permission by Sultan Muhamad

 bin Tughlaq for purchasing 20 villages for the purpose of

 increasing income of the endowment of Mausoleum of

 Sultan Kutubuddin. From said fact it becomes crystal clear

 that the Sultan was not owner of the land of the subject

 people and he had to purchase land for accretion of said

 wakf property. In other words private proprietorship of land

 was in existence during the Sultanate period. Relevant

 extract from page 158 of the the book 'Ibn Battuta Ki Bharat

 Yatra' (translated by Madan Gopal published by National

 Book Trust of India first published in 1933 reprinted in

 1997) reads as follows: 6. From the Farman of Emperor Shah Jahan of 1633-34 AD. it

 becomes clear that the right of private proprietorship was in

 existence during the Mughal period and for the purpose of

 creation wakf of Taj Mahal the Emperor had to acquire land

 of Raja Jai Singh by giving him other land in lieu of the

 acquired land. The extract of the Farman taken from page

 53 and 54 the book Mughal Documents AD.1628-59,

 Volume-II compiled and translated by S.A.I. Tirmizi and

 published by Manohar Publishers, Delhi, 1995 Edn., reads

 as follows: The extract of the Farman taken from page 89 of the book

 Mughal Documents AD.1628-59, Volume-II compiled and

 translated by S.A.I. Tirmizi and published by Manohar

 Publishers, Delhi, 1995 Edn. , reads as follows: Relevant portions of the said book from page 557, 558, 561

 & 562 read as follows: (Digest of Moohummudan Law, by Neil B.E. Baillie
 ,Second Edn., 1875 published by Smith Elder & Co.,
 London p.557)

"According to the two deciples, wukf is the detention
of a thing in the implied ownership of Almighty God,
in such a manner that its profits may revert to or be
applied fof the benefit of mankind, and the
appropriation is obligatory, so that the thing
appropriated can neither be sold, nor given nor
inherited." (Ibid. p.558)

"But if a zimmee should give his mansion as a musjid,
or place of worship, for Mussulmans, and construct it
as they are accustomed to do, and permit them to pray
in it, and they should pray in it, and he should then
die, it would become the inheritance of his heirs,
according to all opinions." (Ibid. p.561)

"It is also a condition that the thing appropriated be
the appropriator's property at the time of the
appropriation; so that, if one were to usurp a piece of
land, appropriate, and then purchase it from the
owner, and pay the price, or compound with him for
other property, which is actually delivered up, it
would not be a wukf." (Ibid. p.562)

"And if a donee of land should make an appropriation
of it before taking possession, and should then take
possession, the wukf would not be valid." (Ibid. p.562)

"If the appropriation were made before taking
possession, it would not be lawful." (Ibid. p.562) 146 9. Great jurist Syed Ameer Ali in his book 'Commentaries on

 Mahommedan Law' extracting the authority writes that the

 wakif must be lawful owner of the property at the time of

 creation of wakf. Otherwise a wakf is invalid. Relevant

 extract from page 225 of the said book reads as follows: (Mahommedan Law by Syed Ameer Ali, 5th Edn. Reprint
 2009,published by Hind Publishing House,Allahabad, p.225) 10.In his book 'Principles of Mahomeddan Law' D.F. Mullah

 writes that wakif must be owner at the time of dedication.

 Relevant extract from page 149 of the said book reads as

 follows: (Principles of Mahomedan Law by D.F. Mullah, 11th Edn.,
 1938, published by Eastern Law House Publication p.149) 11.In the United Provinces Muslim Waqfs Act, 1936 (Act

 No.XIII of 1936) in Section 3(1) the wakf has been defined

 and in the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the said Act 147 it has been stated that the Muslim Law is full and explicit on

 the powers, duties and liabilities of Mutawallies in relation

 to their office. As such the said Act was not aimed to

 legislate in the matter of personal law. Relevant extract

 from the Statement of Objects and Reasons as well as Section 3(1) of the said Act are reproduced as follows: 3. In this Act, unless there is anything repugnant in
 the subject or context-- (1) "Waqf" means the permanent dedication or grant of any
 property for any purposes recognized by the Musalman law
 or usage as religious, pious or charitable and, where no deed
 of waqf is traceable, includes waqf by user, and a waqif
 means any person who makes such dedication or grant." 12.The Uttar Pradesh Muslim Wakfs Act, 1960 (U.P. Act No.

 XVI of 1960) in Section 3(11) defines the wakf as follows: It is further submitted that emperor Babur was also subject

to law of Shar and his action of erection of alleged mosque, if any 148 done in transgression of said law is void. Shri P.N. Misra,

Advocate has relied over following case laws, which are as under:- into mill and void and such building does not comes within the

 definition of a mosque. Paragraph nos. 527, 532-534 and 571 of

 the aforesaid judgment read as follows: According to the theory embodied in this saying,
spiritual and temporal powers and authorities had to
operate in different orbits of power altogether.
Another theory, however, was that the messages of
God had been given the sovereign will of God
Almighty Which governed all matters and this could
not be departed from by any human authority or ruler.
In the practical administration of justice, we are
informed, Muslim caliphs acknowledged and upheld
the jurisdiction of their Qazis to give judgment
against them personally. There is an account of how
the Caliph Omar, being a defendant in a claim brought
by a jew for some money borrowed by him for
purposes of State, appeared in person in the Court of
his own Kazi to answer the claim. The Kazi rose from
his seat out of respect for the Caliph who was so
displeased with this unbecoming conduct that he
dismissed him from office. (See: Sir A. Rahim's
"Muhammadan Jurisprudence", (1958) p. 21). 571. I find that the doctrine of the supremacy or
sovereignty of the Constitution was adopted by a
Bench of seven learned Judges of this Court in
Special Reference No, 1 of 1964, (1965) 1 SCR 413 = 151 (AIR 1965 SC 745) where Gajendragadkar, C. J.,
 speaking for six learned Judges of this Court said (at p
 .446) (of SCR) = (at pp. 762-763 of AIR) : 2. In AIR 1994 SC 2663 ( N. Nagendra Rao & Co. v. State of

 Andhra Pradesh ) the Hon'ble Apex Court has held when the

 law provides for compensation against confiscation, he must be

 compensated and confiscation cannot effect the right of owner

 to claim return of the goods. Relying on said judgment it is

 submitted that when the Law of Shar says that no one can

 acquire ownership of the property of others by virtue of adverse

 position but it can be only by purchase, alleged erection of

 alleged mosque over a Sacred shrine of the Hindus by virtue of

 forceful occupation makes such building only ordinary private

 building not the Mosque. Relevant paragraph 8 of the said

 judgment reads as follows: (a) an order under S. 6A is modified or annulled by
the State Government; (b) where the goods were confiscated in consequence
of prosecution of the person and he is acquitted; (c) and in all these cases where it is not possible for
any reason to return the essential commodity seized.
This provision cuts across the argument of the State
that where even part is confiscated the person whose
goods are seized is not liable to be compensated for
the remaining. The section is clear that if only part of
the goods are confiscated then the remaining has to be
returned. The very first part of the sub-section
indicates that where the order of confiscation, is
modified in appeal meaning thereby if confiscation is
confined to part only the Government is bound to
release or return the remaining or pay the value
thereof. But what is more significant of this sub-
section which widens its reach is the expression, 'and
in either case it is not possible for any reason to return
the essential commodity seized' then, the State shall
be liable to pay the market price of the value with
interest. The expression, 'for any reason' should be
understood in broader and larger sense as it appears
from the context in which it has been used. The
inability to return, giving rise to the statutory
obligation of deeming it as sale to the Government
may arise for variety of reasons and extends to any
failure on the part of the Government. For instance,
the goods might have been sold in pursuance of
interim arrangement under S. 6A(2) . Or it might have
been lost or stolen from the place of storage. The
goods might have deteriorated or rusted in quality or
quantity. The liability to return the goods seized does
not stand discharged by offering them in whatever
condition it was. Confiscation of part of the goods
thus could not affect the right of owner to claim return
of the remaining goods. Nor the owner is bound to
accept the goods in whatever condition they are. The
claim of the respondent, therefore, that the appellant
was bound to accept the goods in whatever condition
they were is liable to be rejected. 3. In AIR 1971 SC 1594 (Union of India. v. Sudhangshu

 Mazumdar) the Hon'ble Apex Court has quoted an extract

 from the United States v. Juan Prechman, (1831-34) L.Ed. 604

 with approval wherein it has been stated that the modern usage

 of nations would be outraged if private properties are

 confiscated or private rights annulled. Relevant paragraph 7 of

 the said judgment reads as follows: The rule set forth in the Perchman case, (1831-34) 8
 L. ed 604 has been followed in over forty American
 cases and has been accepted as the rule of
 International law in English, French, German and
 Italian law*
 * Extracts from the Law of Nations (2nd Edn. 1953),
 p. 237, Cf. F. B. Sayre, "Change of Sovereignty and
 Private Ownership of Land," 12 XII A. J. L L (1918),
 475, 481, 495-497" 4. In 1999 (4) SCC 663 ( R.E.M.S. Abdul Hameed v. Govindaraju )

 the Hon'ble Apex Court has held that under the Ancient Hindu 154 Law there were two beneficial interests in land: (1) that of the

sovereign or his representative, and (2) that of the cultivator or

Ryot holding the land. The Ryot's right arose from occupation

of the land, thus the grant of an Inam do not and could not have

touched the cultivator's right in the land, except in rare cases

where the grantor also hold the cultivator's interest at the time

of the grant. Relying on Said judgment it is submitted that in

our country since inception subjects were proprietor of their

private properties and the Kings were only entitled for land

revenue, Sri Ramajanamasthan was all along and is being

owned by the Deity Sri Ramalala as such the right of private

property of the Deity cannot be extinguished. Relevant

paragraph 4 of the said judgment reads as follows: 5. In AIR 1962 SC 342 (Sunka Villi Suranna. v. Goli Sathiraju)

 the Hon'ble Apex Court has held that where there was no

 evidence to show that the occupation of the lands by the Ryot

 commence under the Zamindar and there was no evidence as to

 the terms at which the Ryots or his predecessors were inducted

 in land. Commencement of the tenancy and the terms thereof

 were lost in antiquity but the Ryot's rights and his descendants

 were proved to have continued in possession of the land

 uninterruptedly till the enactment of the Madras States Land

 Act, 1908 . In the light of the presumption that the Zamindar

 was, unless the contrary was proved, the owner of the

 melvaram and Ryot the owner of the kudivaram the interference

 was irresistible that the Ryot was the holder of the occupancy

 rights in the land and thus rights developed upon his successors

 and the occupancy right in the land were not acquired by virtue

 of the provisions of Madras States Land Act, 1908 . It appears

 that prior to declaring the land as nazul land by the Governor-

 General in 1959 the Hindus were worshipping in the suit

 property as such the occupancy rights remained in the hands of

 the Hindus. Relevant paragraph 17 of the said judgment reads 156 as follows: 6. In (2001) 4 SCC 713 (Syndicate Bank. v. Prabha D. Naik) the

 Hon'ble Apex Court has held that the Muslim jurisprudence

 neither recognised prescription nor limitation. Relying on said

 judgment it is Submitted that as Hindu Endowment was

 existing prior to acquisition of Kingship by the Emperor Babur

 and said ownership of the Deity existed till the day of

 confiscation of the rights of the proprietors in land in the year

 1959 by the British government which right of the Deity again

 revived when the State of Uttar Pradesh gave up its said right

 by filing written statement in the instant Suit. As such the said

 sacred shrine of the Hindus is not liable to be declared as a

 mosque it is most respectfully Submitted. Relevant paragraph 6

 of the said judgment reads as follows: 7. In AIR 1968 SC 683 (V. D. Dhanwatey. v. Commissioner of

 Income Tax, M. P., Nagpur & Bhandara) the Hon'ble Supreme

 Court held that while interpreting an ancient text, the Courts

 must give them a liberal construction to further the interest of

 the society by wisely interpreting the original texts in such a

 way as to bring them in harmony with the prevailing

 conditions. Relying on said judgment it is submitted that the

 Sthandil i.e. Sri Ramjanmasthan which has been recognized by

 the scriptures a means of conferring merit upon the devotees

 and granting salvation to them be recognized as Juridical entity

 and not mere property in crude sense to do justice in the greater

 interest of the citizens of India in general and the Hindu and

 Muslim community in particular to pave the way of permanent

 peace it is with due respect submitted. Relevant paragraph 31

 of the said judgment reads as follows: 8. In AIR 2008 SCW 1224 (Dist. Basic Education Officer & Anr.

 v. Dhananjay Kumar Sukla & Anr.) the Hon'ble Supreme Court

 has held that the rules of pleadings do not apply to question of

 law and new plea on question of law can be raised before the

 Supreme Court even it was not raised before the High Court.

 Relying on said judgment it is humbly submitted that the

 questions of law which has been raised during the argument are

 sustainable in the eye of law and needed to be decided for

 doing complete justice between the parties who are

 representing two major community of India. Relevant

 paragraph 14 of the said judgment reads as follows: Lastly, Mr. Misra has submitted that according to the

Farman of Shah Jahan there cannot be a valid mosque over a land

of a temple and the owner of the temple is entitled for the 159 restoration of the possession with liberty to worship. FARMAN OF THE EMPEROR SHAHJAHAN HELD

THAT THE BUILDING OVER THE LAND OF A TEMPLE

IS NOT A MOSQUE AND OWNER OF THE TEMPLE IS

ENTITLED FOR RESTORATION OF POSSESSION WITH

LIBERTY TO WORSHIP THEREIN ACCORDING TO HIS

OWN RELIGION HAS FORCE OF LAW: 2. In AIR 1961 SC 298 (Madha Rao Phalke. v. Land of 161 Madhya Bharat & Anr.) a Bench comprised of Hon'ble five-

Judges the Hon'ble Apex Court has held that the orders issued

by absolute Monarch ruler of Guwalior State at force of law

and would amount to existing law. Relevant paragraphs 11, 12,

14 and 18 of the said judgment reads as follows: 3. In AIR 1955 SUPREME COURT 352 " Ameer-un-Nissa

Begum v. Mahboob Begum " the Hon'ble Supreme Copurt held

that the firmans were expressions of the sovereign will of the

Ruler and they were binding in the same way as any other law;

nay, they would override all other laws which were in conflict

with them. So long as a particular firman held the field, that

alone would govern or regulate the rights of the parties

concerned, though it could be annulled or modified by a later 163 Firman at any time. Relevant paragraph 15 of the said judgment reads as follows: Shri P.N. Mishra, Advocate has further argued that alleged

inscriptions found on the disputed structure are false, fabricated,

forged on the so-called Babri Mosque, which is virtually a

Ramjanamsthan Temple under the law. His submissions are as

under:- mentioned by the Ld. District Judge in 1886. From Josef

 Tiffenthaler's description it appears that at that time also

 Hindus were worshipping inside the Ramjanmsthan Temple

 alleged to be converted into mosque either by Aurangzeb or

 by Babar. As he was not only a Missionary but an excellent

 Historian, Geographer and great linguistic having mastery

 over several languages including Arabic, Persian and

 Sanskrit, there was no possibility of overlooking the alleged

 Inscriptions by him as it would have enabled him to tell the

 people with certainty the name of the Tyrant Emperor who

 attempted to convert Sri Ramajanmasthan Temple into

 Mosque. English translation of a portion of his book

 "Descriptio Indiae" being description of Oude including

 the Sri Ramajanmasthan has been published on pages 312

 to 317 in the " Modern Traveller, a Popular Description,

 Geographical, Historical, and Topographical of the Various

 Countries of the Globe- India. Vol. III" ; London Edn.1828

 published by James Duncan and has been digitalised by

 Google. Relevant extracts thereof read as follows: immediately on the left as the platform or Chabootra of

 masonary occupied by the Hindus. His said finding is

 recorded in Judgment and Order dated 18th March 1889

 passed in Civil Appeal No.27 of 1886 Mahanta

 Raghubardass, Mahant Janam Asthan City Oudh VS.

 Secretary of State of India, Court of Council and Mohd.

 Asghar by the said Judicial Officer Mr. F.E.A. Chamier,

 District Judge Faizabad which constitute pages 87 to 91 of

 the volume 10 of the Documents of O.O.S. No. 4 of 1989

 being Volume I of the plaintiffs' documents. Relevant

 portion from page 89 of the said Volume being an extract

 of the said judgment reads as follows: immediately on the left as the platform or
 Chabootra of masonary occupied by the Hindus. On
 this is a small superstructure of wood in the form of
 a tent. This "Chabootra" is said to indicate the
 birthplace of Ram Chan deer. Infront of the
 gateway in the entry to masonary Platform of the
 Musjid. A wall pierced (illegible) and therewith
 railings divides the platform of the Musjid from the
 enclosure in which stands the "Chabootra"."
 Be it mentioned herein that said judgment is Judgment per

 Incuriam as it has been passed in ignoratum of law. Prior to

 annexation of Oudh to British Rule the Law of Shar was law

 in force which law neither had rule of Limitation nor did

 recognise adverse possession. Apart from this Hindu law in

 respect of Debutter property also did not recognise adverse

 possession. This principle of Law had already been laid

 down by the Indian Courts of Record as well as Privy

 Council, London as such said judgment passed in ignoratum

 of those judicial pronouncement has no force of law.

 Moreover in the said Suit the Disputed Structure was not

 subject matter of that suit nor was declaration of title in

 respect thereof prayed for. 8. In the aforesaid judgment recording of the Ld. Judge the

 entrance had the superscription "Allah" leaves no doubt

 that he had inspected the disputed premises and Structure

 very minutely and it is needless to say that if there would

 have been alleged Inscriptions that would not have gone 173 unnoticed by him. Be it mentioned herein that according to

Hindus' sacred book "Allopanisad" "Allah" is one of the

several names of the almighty. Be it mentioned herein that

the "Allopanishad" has been reproduced by the

founder of Arya Samaj Maharshi Dayanand Saraswati in his

book "Satyarthaprakash" 2nd revised edition published in

Vikram Samvat 1939 i.e. 1882 A.D.. According to him it

was written during the reign of Emperor Akbar. The text of

"Allopanishad" as published on pages 556-67 of

'Satyarthaprakash' in "Dayanand-Granthmala published by

Srimati Paropakarini Sabha, Ajmer 1983 Edn. reads as

follows: 9. A. Fuhrer was the first archaeologist who read and

 translated and got published three inscriptions alleged to be

 fixed on Babari Masjid which was alleged to be built under

 command of Emperor Babur at the site of Sri

 Ramjanmasthan. A. Fuhrer's book "The Sharqi

 Architecture of Jaunpur, with notes on Zafarabade, Sahet-

 Mahet and other Places in the North-Western Provinces and

 Oudh" containing those three Inscriptions was first

 published by the Archeological Survey of India in 1989.

 A. Fuhere's translations and introductory notes thereto read

 as follows: Inscription no.XLI is written in Persian poetry,
the meter being Ramal, in six lines on the
member, right-hand side of the masjid. Inscription No.XLII is written in Persian poetry
,the metre being Ramal, in ten lines, above the
entrance door of the masjid. A few characters of
the second and whole third lines are completely
defaced. The old temple of Ramachandra at Janamasthan
 must have been a very fine one, for many of its
 columns have been used by the Musalmans in
 the construction of Babar's masjid. These are of
 strong, close-grained, dark- coloured or black
 stone, called by the natives Kasauti, "touch-
 stone slate," and carved with different devices.
 They are from seven to eight feet long, square
 at the base,centre and capital, and round or
 octagonal intermediately. ( The Sharqi Architecture of Jaunpur by A.Fuherer
 Ph.D. P 67-68)
Annexure-IV
Babur Nama by
A.S. Beveridge 10.Annette Susannah Beveridge was the second british scholar

 who in 1921 published texts of two Inscriptions purported to

 be of alleged Babri Mosque which were supplied by the

 Deputy-Commissioner of Fyzabad alongwith English

 Translation and Transliteration thereof done by a Muslim.

 Said Inscriptions are Appendix "U" of Babur-Nama

 (Memoires of Babur) translated by her. In her said book

 A.S. Beveridge before giving Text and Translation of the

 alleged two Inscriptions writes as follows: After giving text and transliteration of an Inscription he

 gives Translation with her exaggerating value thereof as

 follows: After giving its Text and Transliteration she translates the

alleged First Inscription as follows: After giving its Text and Transliteration she translates the

 alleged Second Inscription as follows: (Babur-Nama Appendices U Page Ixxvii -lxxix) 11.The Texts and Translations of the alleged inscriptions

 supplied to and published by S.A. Beveridge in 1921 are

 quite different from that the Texts and Translations of the

 alleged three inscriptions supplied to and translated by A.

 Fuhrer and published in 1889 by the Archaeological survey

 of India. Her statement that those Inscriptions were ' still

 existing on 'Babur's Mosque" is not trust worthy as it

 appears from her own admission that those inscriptions were

 supplied to her husband by the Deputy-Commissioner of

 Fyzabad and he had no occasion to see and examine the

 existence of the real Inscriptions. 12.In Waqf Commissioner's report dated Feb. 8 1941, it has

 been recorded that the Emperor Babur built the alleged

 Babri Mosque and appointed one Abdul Baqi its Mutawalli.

 No Papers related to grants in respect of alleged mosque

 were available. In this report one Abdul Baqi has been stated

 to be Mutwalli of the Janam Asthan Mosque at Ajudhya

 built by Emperor Babur. If inscriptions would have been

 there then he would have mentioned the same and in that

 event he would have mentioned the name of either Mir 179 Khan or Mir (and) Khan Baqi or Mir Baqi instead of Abdul

 Baqi. A copy of the said report is on pages 44 to 48 of the

 Vol.6 of the documents filed in the instant Suit by the

 plaintiffs: Relevant extract from the said report reads as

 follows: (Ibid p.45) 13.Ld. Civil Judge Faizabad, Mr. A. Akhtar Ahasan caused

 Judicial Inspection of the Disputed Structure on 26th March

 1946 in R. Suit No. 29 of 1945 Shia Central Board of Waqf

 U. P. Vs. Sunni Central Board of Waqf U.P. Said 'Inspection

 Note' of the Ld. Judge as well as Persian Text of Two

 Inscriptions alleged to be found on Disputed Structure are

 on pages 355 to 360 of the Volume 12 of the Documents i.e.

 Volume III of the Plaintiffs' documents filed in 0.5. No. 4 of

 1989.1st Inscription is on page 356 while 2nd Inscription is on

 page 357. Notes are on pages355 & 357. Inspection Notes read as follows: 14.In his judgment and Order dated 30-02-1946 passed in R.

 Suit No. 29 of 1945 Shia Central Board of Waqf U. P. Vs.

 Sunni Central Board of Waqf U.P. , the Ld. Civil Judge

 Faizabad, has incorporated translation of the inscription

 N0. 1 in its entirety and, gist of the inscription N0.2.

 (Relevant portion of the said judgment containing

 translation of the inscription No.1 and gist of the inscription

 N0.2 extracted from page 113 of the Documents' Volume

 10 being volume I of the Documents of the plaintiffs in

 0.0.S. No. 4 of 1989 reads as follows: The 2nd inscription is more elaborate and contains
 usual high flown language on eulogy of Babar &
 describe Mir Baqi of Isphahan as his adviser and
 the builder of the mosque. This inscription no doubt
 supports the plff's case, because it does not say that
 it was by the order of Babar shah & it only refers to
 the reign of Babar but the 1st couplet in the 1st
 inscription near the pulpit, clearly supports the
 theory that Babar had ordered the building of the as
 stated in the Gazettes and the settlement report.' 15.From the above mentioned Notes and Judgment of the Ld.

 Civil Judge Faizabad it becomes crystal clear that the

 Inscriptions were destroyed in communal riot in 1934 and

 were subsequently restored by the contractor Tehwoor khan.

 Alleged two inscriptions records two different dates of

 erection of the building. In one it is given 923 Hijri

 corresponding to 1516-17 A.D. while in other Inscription it

 has been given 935 A.D. corresponding to 1528-29 A.D. In

 this Inscription Mir Baqi of Isphahan has been described as

 Babur's adviser and the builder of the mosque. As Esfahan

 and Taskend are part of two different Nations i.e. Iran and

 Uzbekistan respectively these two Baqi are to be construed

 two different persons. While in A. Fuhere's Inscription 182 structure in question has been mentioned as lofty firmament

 building ; in the contractor Tehwoor khan's restored

 Inscription it has been purposely mentioned as resting place

 of angels. 16.In 1964-65 Dr. Z.A. Desai, Superintendent, Persian and

 Arabic Inscription Nagpur published Texts and Translations

 of three Inscriptions alleged to be fixed on Babari Mosque.

 Dr. Desai gives reason for his said publication of the Texts

 and Transalations of the said Inscriptions as follows: (Epigraphia Indica Arabic
 & Persian Supplement
 1964 and 1965 p. 58-59)

 Dr. Desai's footnotes 1 & 4 reads as follows: (Ibid.p.59)

In fact Dr. Desai's this statement purported to prove his

hollow claim is also wrong as no such Appendix as

mentioned is available. For the sake of argument only if for a

moment it is assumed that in 1906-07 Maulavi M Shua'ib had

appended such Inscription even then it does not prove that it

was in existence in 1889 when Fuhrer published Inscriptions

otherwise it would have been necessarily transmitted to A.

Fuherer. Dr. Z.A. Desai's Translation of the first inscription being

Plate XVII (a) reads as follows:- (Ibid.p.59)

Dr. Desai deciphering the numerical value and hidden

meanings of the chronogram of the First Inscription writes

as follows: (Ibid.p.59-60)

Dr. Z.A. Desai's before publishing Text and Translation of

the second inscription being Plate XVII (b) informs about

its non-existence as follows:- (Ibid.p.60)

Dr. Z.A. Desai's Translation of the second inscription being

Plate XVII (b) reads as follows:- (Ibid.p.60)

Dr. Z.A. Desai's before publishing Text and Translation of

the third inscription being Plate XVII (c) says that Fuhrer

must have been mis- informed about the same which means

in fact A. Fuherer had not seen the third inscription himself

but had relied on other's wrong information. His said

statements read as follows:- (Ibid.p.60)

Dr. Z.A. Desai's Translation of the third inscription being

Plate XVII (c) reads as follows:- (Ibid.p.60-61) 17.Dr. Z.A. Desai informs that Fuhrer's reading does not appear

 to be free from mistakes. But he does not specify the

 mistakes committed by Fuhrer in his reading of the texts and

 translations thereof. From the scrutiny of Dr Desai's

 translation it appears that Dr. Desai in 4th line has added

 "and" between 'Mir' and 'Khan' and "Baqi" after 'Khan'.

 So he has converted 'Mir Khan' into 'Mir Khan Baqi'. And

 in the 3rd line he has added "of God" after 'this lasting

 house' to make it a mosque. He has neither given any

 rational explanation for his said conversion of 'Mir Khan'

 into 'Mir Baqi' nor He has exhibited as to how the

 Fuhrer's translation is different from the original text. 18.Dr. Z.A. Desai In his detailed discussion on all inscriptions

 of Babur's regime writes an introduction that a rough draft

 of an article of his predecessor Maulivi M. Asuraf Hussain 187 who retired in 1953 was found amongst sundry papers in his

 office with a note that it might be published after revision by

 his successor. Consequently, he claims, that he has published

 these inscriptions with translation after extensive revision

 and editing, but nowhere has he mentioned that which

 portions of the reading of these inscriptions are his own

 revision and editing and on what ground these revisions

 have been made. About inscriptions at Ayodhya he writes

 that there are three inscriptions in the Babari Mosque out of

 which the two were completely destroyed by the Hindu

 rioters in 1934 A.D. However, he managed to secure an ink-

 stampage of one of them from Sayyid Badru'l - Hasan of

 Fyzabad. He writes that the present inscription restored by

 the Muslims Community "is also slightly different from the

 original owing perhaps to the incompetence of restorers in

 deciphering it properly." When Dr. Desai himself admits that

 the restored inscription is slightly different from the original,

 then his claim that the restored inscription fixed on Baburi

 mosque in or after 1934 is the dextrously rebuilt of the

 original one alleged to be fixed on since the days of Babur

 becomes meaningless and un-trustworthy. . In fact, none of

 the Inscriptions was fixed on the Disputed Structure which

 has all along been sacred place of the Hindus known as Sri

 Ramajanmasthan Temple. 19.Dr. Desai informs that he has based his translation on the 188 inscription of Fuhrer, although he says that Fuhrer must

have been misinformed to affirm that; "few corrections of

the second and the whole third line completely defaced".

Even if it is supposed that some words in the 2nd line and

the whole third line are defaced, there is not much impact in

the meaning of the text of the inscription. But here we do

find that Dr. Desai has extensively changed the meaning of

the translated passage. It is quite different from what Fuhrer

had translated. Fuhrer had written that it is in ten lines,

above the entrance door of the Masjid. He has made its

translation in ten separate lines. Dr. Desai has considerably

changed the meaning of the text without pinpointing how

Fuhrer's translation was wrong. Since beginning and the end

of the text are the same and the inscription is said to be the

same and there is no major variance in Fuhrer's English

translation from the Persian text, Dr. Desai's translation

appears to be arbitrary. He has changed the date of the

inscription 930 H. (1523 A.D.) to 935A.H. without assigning

any reason. In Dr. Desai's translation the name of Mir Baqi

the second Asfaq appears where as in the original Persian

text Mir Baqi's name does not appear at all. Then Babar is

called a Qalandar in this inscription which is not found in

Fuhrer's translation. After 4th line Dr. Desai does not follow

the line system and at the end he mentions Fathu'llah

Muhammad Ghori as the humble writer of this inscription. 189 His name figures in the Fuhrer's translation too. He goes on

 expanding how Babar was called Qalandar but he does not

 explain how the changes have taken place in the inscription

 which was not in the text read by Fuhrer. 20.In the above mentioned Inscriptions the Emperor's name

 Zahiru'd-Din Muhammad Babur Badshah Ghazi which has

 been recorded almost in all other available Inscription of his

 period, is missing from which it appears that the forgers of

 later days were not familiar with the correct name of the said

 Emperor. In the Inscription, dated A.H. 933 i.e. 1526-27 A.D. found
 on the wall of a well from Fatehpur Sikri being Plate No.
 XV(a) in its 1st line his name has been recorded as follows: (Epigraphia Indica Arabic
 & Persian Supplement
 1964 and 1965 at page-51)

 In the Inscription of A.H. 934 i.e. 1527-28 A.D. found on a
 mosque from Panipat being Plate No. XVI(b) in its 1st line
 his name has been recorded as follows: (Ibid.p. 55)
 In the Inscription dated A.H. 934 i.e. 1527-28 A.D. found
 on a mosque from Rohatak being Plate No. XVI(a) in its
 2nd line his name has been recorded as follows: (Ibid.p. 56-7)

 In the Inscription dated A.H. 934 i.e. 1528 A.D. found on a
 mosque from Rohtak being Plate No. XVII(a) in its 1st line
 his name has been recorded as follows: (Ibid.p. 57)
 In the Inscription of A.H. 935 i.e. 1528-29 A.D. found on a 190 mosque from Palam(Delhi) being Plate No. XVIII(a) in its
 1st and 2nd lines his name has been recorded as follows: (Ibid.p. 62)
 In the Inscription of A.H. 935 i.e. 1528-29 A.D. found on a
 mosque from Pilakhna being Plate No. XVIII(c) in its 3rd
 line his name has been recorded as follows: (Ibid.p. 64)

 In the Inscription dated A.H. 936 i.e. 1529 A.D. found on a
 mosque from Maham being Plate No. XIX(a) in its 1st and
 2nd lines his name has been recorded as follows: (Ibid.p. 65) 21.It is not uncommon for ruffians to fix old Inscriptions on

 newly built and / or converted mosques. 'Epigraphia Indica

 Arabic & Persian Supplement 1964 and 1965' at its pages

 55 and 56 records that two Inscriptions dated 1934 fixed on

 two mosques at Rohtak did not belong to those mosques but

 have been fixed thereon. relevant extracts from said book

 read as follows: (Ibid.p.56) 191 "The other epigraph of Babur in Rohtak is from the
 Rajputon-ki-Masjid. Fixed over its central arch, the
 tablet, measuring 1.1 m. By 21 cm., does not
 belong to the mosque, but it was rather intended as
 the tombstone of Masnad-i-'Ali Firuz Khan. It is
 inscribed with two lines of Persian which are
 slightly affected by the weathering of the stone.
 The text records A.H. 934 (1528 A.D.) as the date
 of the construction of the tomb of Masnad-i-Ali
 Firuz Khan, son of Masnad-i-Ali Ahmed Khan and
 grandson of Masnad-i-Ali Jamal Khan and refers
 itself to the reign of Babur. The style of writing is
 ordinary Naskh. I have read it as follows:- (Ibid. P. 57) 22. In Epigraphia Indica Arabic & Persian Supplement 1964

 and 1965' at its pages 19 and 20 S.A. Rahim reports that at

 Fathabad near Chanderi in Guna district of Madhya Pradesh,

 stands the partially ruined palace known as Kushk-Mahal

 and Inscrption fixed thereon are not dated back to its

 construction but have been affixed thereon from time to time

 either by the visitors or by the Governors thereof. Relevant

 extracts from his said reprt read as follows: (Ibid. P.19-20)

 In view of the submissions of Shri P.N. Mishra, it

transpires that even after the conquest, the Ramjanamsthan

Temple could not be demolished, even if demolished, the

erection of Babri Mosque is illegal and against the tenets of

Islam. Accordingly, the disputed site cannot be deemed to be a

mosque. He has further submitted that there is no reliable

evidence that it was constructed by Babur or Mir Baqi.

Accordingly Ramjanamsthan Temple even under the Islamic

law shall retain its existence, which is not vanished by any

illegal action of Aurangzeb, Babur or any ruler. No valid waqf

can also be created. It is further submitted that since there

was no Islamic Mosque, accordingly question of offering

prayers does not arise and even if the prayer was offered, it is

immaterial. Thus in view of the arguments of Shri P.N. Mishra, the

building cannot be deemed to almighty. It cannot be used for

offering prayers. It has no status of a mosque and the old status of

RamJanamsthan Temple cannot be vanished by the rulers. It is

unwarranted under the Mohammedan law as Hindus were paying 194 Jazia. Sri Hari Shanker Jain, Advocate, appearing on behalf of

 Hindu Maha Sabha, defendant no.10 has made following

 submissions:- 13- The Hon'ble Court directed Archeological Survey of India

 to excavate and to submit a report by virtue of powers vested under 197 Order 26 Rule 10 A of CPC . Report has been submitted by ASI and

 Hon'ble Court has not directed to call for another report, and as

 such said Report has become the part of record as scientific

 evidence for placing reliance thereon. 14- The report of ASI clearly established that the disputed

 structure was raised on the existing wall of temple and no new

 foundation had been raised. A large material showing the existence

 of temple has been found and that there existed a big structure. In

 this regard, the conclusion derived by the ASI is referred to.

15- There is another clinching evidence to establish that the

 structure in question (partly) was raised destroying a Hindu

 Temple largely employing the materials of the demolished

 structure. It is evident from 14 black Kasauti Pillars pictures which

 are available in the album of white and Black photographs

 submitted by Director, UP State Archeology in two albums who

 was directed to take photographs and get videography of the

 existing structure. 16- Those albums contain the pictures of Kasauti Pillars where

 Hindu God and Goddess were engraved and those pillars cannot be

 found in any Mosque. Apart from these pillars the Varah Devta is

 clearly seen in the outer wall of the structure. In the southern side

 Singh Dwar is visible. These photos have been pointed out to the

 Hon'ble Court during course of arguments and in video film

 displayed before the Hon'ble Court on 27th July 2010.

17- In different Gazetteers the facts have been mentioned by 198 Authors on the basis of the clinching evidence and story of damage

 / demolition of a Temple at the site of Janamsthan and construction

 of the disputed structure as narrated by the public on the basis of

 information derived by them from their ancestors and that the said

 place i.e. the Asthan is believed sacred by Hindus who have been

 worshiping the temple and place from ages. (Paper No. 132 - C1

 to 62 Vol. 29 Page 43-167)

18- It is remarkable to mention that plaintiffs have relied upon

 the facts mentioned in EPIGRAPHIA INDICA published under the

 authority of Archeological Survey of India in 1965 edited by

 Superintendent Dr. Z. A. Desai, wherein it has been clearly

 mentioned that a mosque was constructed at the birth place of in

 question, during the reign of Babur and that alleged inscription at

 the structure was misplaced during 1934 riots and its copy was

 obtain from Maullavi M. Ashraf Hussain while the one again

 placed in the structure is a different inscription. (Paper no. 198 C 2

 to 123 volume 30 page 107 to 117. Annexure-IV
William Finch
Page-13

19- It is relevant to point out that from the travelers account of

 William Finch and Trifen Thaler, the description of Ayodhya

 relating to Pooja at the birthplace written by Abul Fazl in Ain-I-

 Akbari Volume 2 and 3. The Gazateer of 1854 and subsequent

 gazateers as well as the report A. Fuhrer 1891, marked as ex- j - 24

 volume 35 at page 341 to 351. There is a clear mention that there

 existed Rama temple at the place in question. From the Gazateers 199 report as well as from the Judgment of Civil Judge in Suit no. 61/

 280 of 1885 it is clear that Hindus were performing Pujas in the

 inner courtyard and after riot in 1855 a railing was put, and

 Muslims were allowed to perform Namaz as well. But there is no

 evidence that the Hindus did not continue to worship the idols

 inside the inner courtyard. The Muslims tried to enter upon the

 inner courtyard in the year 1934 and riot took place in which the

 Domes were damaged and were rebuilt by the Britishers giving

 outlook of a Mosque. There is no evidence that after riots, the

 structure was handed over to Muslims by the Government. The

 Hindus continued in possession and pooja was being performed in

 the inner courtyard and also on chabutara. The pilgrims and

 devotees continued to worship and perform ritual of all the sacred

 places at the Asthan. 20- It is remarkable to mention that the building in question

 cannot be termed as mosque in any way. On the pillars, images of

 Hindu God and Goddess are visible, at the entrance small 'aala' for

 worship of the deity was there, in the northern side Singh Dwar

 was there and the outer was the image of Varah is very much

 visible. Apart from all these evidences, one more remarkable thing

 is that there is parikrama marg round the structure which is found

 in a Temple. After Darshan of the 'Idol', the 'Charans' and Sita

 Rasoi', devotees were taking parikrama of the Temple

 continuously much before the rule of Babur. The Panchkosi and

 Chaudah Kosi parikrama of the Asthan are being performed from

 ages. On Ram Naumi day, the birth place of Lord Ram devotees in

 lacs were collecting to perform Pooja and other rituals much 200 before from Babur invaded and continued till date.

21- It is noteworthy that in all the Government and Revenue

 Record Janamsathan or Temple have been mentioned. Even the

 Muslims in their applications have referred the place as Janam

 asthan. In 1858, Mohd. Asgar, the alleged Mutwalli had confirmed

 that Hindus collect and perform puja there from ages. 22- It is remarkable that all the Muslim historian, writers,

 intellectuals etc have continuously maintained that Babur

 constructed a Mosque after demolishing the birthplace temple at

 the site in question. For the first time, Mohd. Ayub Advocate, in

 his statement under Order 10 CPC asserted that Mosque was

 constructed under the orders of Babur at a barren land.

23- It is noteworthy that Mohd. Ayub Advocate could not give

 said statement on the basis of his knowledge as he had not seen the

 events of 1528 and he has not disclosed his source of knowledge.

24- In Suit No. 29 of 1945, UP Shia Wakf Board Vs. U.P. Sunni

 Wakf Board which is being relied upon by the plaintiffs, there is a

 finding that the Mosque in question was constructed after

 demolishing a Temple at the Birthplace of Lord Ram. The Muslims

 have also not filed any appeal against the said finding. Therefore,

 there is estoppels against the Muslims on the issue and they cannot

 assert that the alleged Mosque in question after demolishing the

 Temple at the Ram Janam Asthan was constructed on a barren

 land. 25- From a reading of Babur Nama, it is crystal clear that he

 hated Hindus and Idol worshippers and he took a vow to break

 their Idols in pieces. 26- Therefore, a clear mens rea is established and Babur's hatred

 came true when under his order temple at the place in question was

 destroyed partly to humiliate the Idol Worshippers and show the

 victory of Army of Islam over Pagans( Kafirs).

27- It is relevant to point out that Muslim Plaintiffs have

 asserted that from the time of Babur till British Rule they were

 being paid Nankar grant. In this regard it is to point out that there

 was no proof that any grant was ever given by any ruler before

 1860 in the name of alleged Baburi Mosque. It is for the first time

 that Britishers allured the Muslim by financial grant of Rupees 302

 and 6 annas on the condition that they will be loyal to the

 Britishers and give military service whenever required. The grant

 was given for a Mosque existed at Mauja Sehenava and not for any

 Mosque at Mauja Kot Ramchandar. Mauja Sehenava is 5

 kilometers away from Mauja Kot Ramchandar.

 There is no proof that any Wakf was ever created or the Mosque

 was on a Wakf property. No Wakf can be created over the site of a

 Hindu temple or Hindu place or at the Asthan of Hindu worship. It

 is immaterial as to whether Muslim law permits such a

 construction of a Mosque and the defendant Hindu Maha Sabha

 does not rely on Muslim law at all. In regard to Hindu places of

 worship, Muslim law cannot be applied and Hindu Law will apply 202 and prevail, which lays down that once deity's property, if always

a deity's property and even King cannot take it. Even if under

Muslim law the construction in question could be recognized as

mosque, the defendant does not place reliance on that analogy to

take benefit of foreign law which would be shameful and

derogatory. He has further submitted that on the basis of archaeological

evidence and remains which were found after the demolition of the

old structure suggests that after demolition of the temple the

mosque was constructed by the debris of the old temple. 1. The most clinching evidence is epigraphical, i.e.,

documents inscribed on stone. It is the inscription of that

very king in whose reign the Hindu temple at Rama

Janmabhumi was built, King Govinda Chandra. It is,

therefore, contemporary documentary evidence which is

incontrovertible hence it should be fully relied upon in

establishing the historical fact of the existence of a pre-

Babari Masjid Hindu temple at Rama Janmabhumi. 2. It is a 20-line lekha (inscription or document)

engraved on a rectangular phalaka (slab or tablet) of buff

sandstone (Shila) . It measures about 5 fts. In length and

2.25 fts. In width. The language of the inscription is

Sanskrit. The text is largely composed in beautiful verses; 203 only some portions are in prose. The script is Nagari

written in the 11 t h -12thcentury A.D. style. This is fully

established by palaeography or "the science of old

writings'. 3. That inscription, in the absence of proper

professional estampages, which the court must

immediately arrange from the Archaeological Survey of

India, has understandably as yet not been fully deciphered

by palaeographists and epigraphists. Nevertheless,

substantial portions have been deciphered from the

available estampages, photographs, colour slides and a

video-film prepared by Dr. S.P. Gupta jointly with Dr.

Sudha Malaiyya on 13 t h Dece. 1992, which prove beyond

an iota of doubt that here at Rama Janmabhumi there did

exist from at least the early 12 th century A.D. a Hindu

temple. The inscription and its deciphered portions are

given in Appendix -I. Here we are quoting only the

relevant portions to bring home the single point that as

early as the first half of the 12 t h century A.D. a

magnificent and imposing Hindu temple,dedicated to Lord

Vishnu-Hari, was constructed here during the reign of the

most powerfull ruler of this region, King Chandra Deva

of the Gahadval Dynasty ruling from Kannauj, an ancient

city of the R. Ganga, from where even the king Harsha

had ruled in the 7 t h century A.D. 204 4. The inscription has not been read fully due to the

non-availability of good impressions, but what has so far

been deciphered in more than enough to conclude the

erection of a Vaishnava shrine there during this period.

The record was evidently put up on a wall of the shrine to

mark its completion and installation of the divine image.

Line 15 of this inscription tells us that a beautiful temple

of Vishnu-Hari built with heaps of stone (sila-samphati-

grahais) and beautified with a golden spire (hiranya-

kalasa- sri-sundaram) unparalleled by any other temple

erected by earlier kings (purvvair-apy-akritam kritam

nripatibhir ) was constructed. This wonderful temple (aty-

adbhutam )was built in the temple-city (vibudh-alayani ) of

Ayodhya and Saketa were closely connected, Saketa being

the district wherein Ayodhya was located. The two names

are used as synonymous in classical Sanskrit literature,

and it is likely that they represent the twin cities of

Ayodhya and Faizabad. Towards the end it also refers to

God Vishnu as destroying kind Bali (in Vamana

incarnation) and the ten headed (Dasanana, i.e. Ravapa)

and alludes to the serious fear from the west (paschatya-

bhiti ). It also contains the expression Janmabhumi. It

was composed by the poet Ayushyachandra, son of

Alhana. Perhaps he was also a ruling chief and as royal

poet he was said to have excelled even Sahasanka and 205 Sudraka and is credited with the excavation of tanks,

wells as well as stepped wells. We come across a

reference to king Govindachandra, who appears to be

identical with the homonymous Gahadavala king, as well

as to strong ruling chief named Sallakshana twice. This

Sallakshana cannot be dfinitely identified as the whole

inscription has not yet been deciphered. He could have

been a Gahadavala feudatory or the well-known

Chandella king of that name who ruled towards the close

of the eleventh and the beginning of the twelfth century

A.D. while certain points in connection with the

interpretation of the inscription are yet to be settled, and

can only be settled when good impressions are made

available, the fact is finally established that at the

disputed site there existed an eleventh-twelfth century

Vaishnava temple before the erection of the 'Babari

masque.' 5. In this prashasti (citation) the king says that he

came to Ayodhya, which is located in the Saket Mandala

(District), and built a sundara mandiram (most beautiful

temple) of shila (stone). It was possibly done in place of

an old temple which had by then become weathered. He

topped the Shikhara (spire) of the temple with kalasha

(pinnacle) made of hiranya (Gold). He dedicated the 206 temple to Lord Vishnu-Hari who was none else but the

one who had humbled the pride of Bali-raja (the

trivikram form of Vishnu) and also dushta Dashanana

(wicked Ravana). This he did when the foreigners (the

Muslims) were avalanching from the West (Paschchatya )

and creating fear (bhiti ) but he had successfully thwarted

it with the valour of his own arm (Bahudalanama ). 6. The date of the reigning king Govinda Chandra of

the Gahadval dynasty of Kannauj is bracketed between

1114 A.D. and 1154 A.D. 7. It is most significant to note that the king not only

built the temple but also completed it because the kalasha

or pinnacle is established on the top of the Shikhara or

spire only when the temple is finally ready in all respects

and the kumbhabhisheka performed. Then only the deity

in the garbhagriha (sanctum sanctorum) gets consecrated

and is ready to receive daily offering and worship. In this

case the main deity was Lord Vishnu -Hari. Evidently, the

inscribed tablet was fixed in the walls of the temple of

Vishnu- Hari at the time of the consecration of the deity

and the inaugural worship held to commemorate the

event. 8. No, greater proof is required to establish the fact

that here at Rama Janmabhumi a magnificient Vaishnava

temple was in fact built sometime between 1114 AD. And 207 1154 A.D., i.e. during the first half of the 12 t h century

A.D. and dedicated to Lord Vishnu-Hari who had humbled

the pride of many, including Ravana. (Incidently, Rama

and Rama alone had humbled the pride of Ravana; hence

in a sense it was not only a Vishnu temple but also Rama

temple, as Rama was one of the various incarnations of

Vishnu.)The event of erecting the temple had taken place

around 400 years prior to the building of the 'Babari

Masjid': the temple was built in early 12 t h century while

the 'mosque' was built in early 16 t h century. For the

historians the evidence of the inscription is full, final and

incontrovertible. 9. It may also be noted that even earlier to it there

existed a temple at this very site which had become

dilapidated due to the ravages of time which had

weathered the stones of the temple. This is borne out from

the details of the inscription as well as the actual art and

architectural remains discovered on 6 t h Dec. 199: Hence,

the building of the 12 t h Century Hindu temple was not a

one-time act but an act in an on-going process.

(Reference: Rama Janmabhumi, Ayodhya: New

Archaeological Discoveries, Historians Forum, New

Delhi, 1992). 10. Fortunately, this contemporary documentary

evidence, in the form of Hari-Vishnu temple inscription, 208 engraved on a stone tablet, is further supported by two

more inscriptions engraved on a stone pillar found within

the debris of the Babari Masjid on the 6 t h Dec. 12992 .

One of these stone inscriptions (Shila-lekha ), the upper

one, is in eight lines, while the other, the lower one, is in

two lines. Though the inscriptions are so very

fragmentary that no coherent account could so far be

made out from their reading. Still two things are

absolutely clear: one , that the inscriptions relate to

Hindu Gods and Hindu Kings ( there is a genealogical

reference) and second, that palaeographically the script is

to be placed in 12 th century A.D., may be in the mid to

lat 12 th Century A.D. Thus, these inscriptions are

around 50 years later in date than the Vishnu-Hari temple

inscription. 11. It, therefore, follows, that the activities connected

with the structures did not cease by the middle of the 12 t h

century A.D, these were continuing beyond it. 12. This otherwise most clinching evidence of

epigraphical records is also fully supported by the actual

remains of the temples, rightly claimed to have been built

here by the kings during the 12 t h century A.D. and also

earlier to it, possibly 10 t h and 11 t h centuries A.D., and

may be even earlier to this 'earlier' date for which also 209 there is some solid evidence in the form of objects of art

and ions of the Kushana Period, 1 s t -3 r d century A.D.

 THE ARCHITECTURAL REMAINS OF THE PRE- 1. There are several pieces of architectural members of

the pre-1528-29 A.D. Hindu temples which once stood at

Rama Janmabhumi. We may start with the internal

evidence of the structure of the so-called Babari Masjid

which stood at the site from 1528-29 A.D. till the

afternoon of the 6 t h Dec. 1992. The evidence is in the

form of a number of beautifully carved monolithic pillars

of black colour with bluish hue. These were at the ends of

the piers of the domes and also on the entrance of the

'masjid'. On all counts, these are non-Islamic because

they show images of Hindu gods and goddesses. Thus,

these pillars must have formed part of a temple of the

pre-Babari Masjid period. The relevant details are as

follows: (i) Within the then disputed structure of the

so-called Babari Masjid there were as many as 14 pillars

of black stone popularly called'kasauti' but geologically

speaking, schistose of the slate varity, a sedimentary

rock, the nearest deposits of which are located in hilly

tracts of Garhwal- Kumaonregion of Uttar Pradesh. All of 210 them were used a architectural members in the body

fabric of the 'Babari Mosque". (ii)

 One of the black stone pillars, fixed on the northern

side of the main entrance, carved under the central dome,

was found inscribed with the letter "Si ", written

prominently in typical Nagari script which is stylistically

datable to 11-12 t h century A.D., sdme as the script of the

Vishnu-Hari temple inscription mentioned in Section-I. (iii) There are two similar pillars found fixed

upside down in a grave-yard located nearly a furlong

away from Janmabhumi. The grave near which these are

still found existing is alleged to be of the Muslim saint,

Musa Ashikan who is supposed to be patron of Mir Baqi. There are a couple of similar other black stone

pillars, still standing in the cantonment area at Faizabad,

some 8 to 10 Km. away from Ayodhya. (iv) Each pillar, which nearly 11 to 12 inches

square at the base, but eight faceted in the centre and four

faceted below it, is shown emerging out of a sacred

water-pitcher, called purna-kumbha or purna-ghata , or

simply kalasha. It is exclusively a Hindu sacred motif

since it relates to the Vedic concept of Water Cosmology.

(Reference: "'Ashokan' Pillar: A Reassessment of the 211 Evidence" pt.IV Symbolism, Burlington Magazine 1976,

by John Irwin). (v) Each purna-ghata is shown carried on the

shoulders of four yakshas, sitting on knees and pressing

the hands on the ground in the front. Each one is located

at one of the four corners of the square base of the pillar,

representing one cardinal direction. According to

Sadhanamala , an old Sanskrit text on Hindu

Inconography, each human settlement had at least one

yaksha, as the guardian deity; he had a consort also,

called yakshi, Reference: yaksha by Ananda K.

Coomaraswami) (vi) The pillars are further

embellished with male (Ganas ), female (deva-kanyas ),

floral ( kamala ), faunal (hamsa ) and geometric motifs

( diamond), typical of the Hindu iconography, repeatedly

found in all Hindu temples. (Reference: Art of India and

Indonesia Ananda Kentish Coomaraswami). PILLAR-BASES ; The Remains In The Excavated

Trenches 2. From 1975 through 1980 professor B.B. Lal, a

former Director General, Archaeological Survey of India,

excavated at fourteen different places in ayodhya on

behalf of the Archaeological Survey of India. In one of

his trenches, laid immediately on the south of the 212 boundary wall of the then disputed structure, he found six

of the several pillar-bases arranged in two parallel rows.

These were built of burnt-bricks mixed with blocks of

stone. It was logically surmised by the excavators that

these may have been those very 'bases' on which some of

the block stone pillars of the original temple stood while

in situ. 3. After a close examination of the plans and sections

of this site, it may further be noted, even three other

eminent archaeologists--Prof. K.V. Raman, Head of the

Ancient History and Archaeology Department, Madras

University, Dr. Y.D. Sharma and Dr. K.M. Srivastava--

formerly Directors, Archaeological Survey of India, have

come to the same conclusion. The have observed that the

foundation-trenches of the pillars, the layers found

against the pillar-bases, the various lime-floors, the

debris, and the floor sealing the pillar-bases as well as the

material found in the debris overlying the sealin-floor

establish beyond any doubt that the pillar-bases were

raised in the 11 t h -12 t h century A.D. Incidentally, as noted

earlier, one of the pillars on the main entrance of the

disputed structure also bears an inscription in Nagari

characters of the 11 t h -12 century A.D. Thus, the pillar-

bases belonged to the period 11 t h -12 t h century A.D.

further, the dating of the destruction of the temple, early 213 16 t h century, is based upon two unquestionable pieces of

evidence: (i) the material found in the deposit lying

buried in a pit immediately below the sealing floor and in

the debris lying immediately above the sealing floor.

There are a number of glazed ware pieces in both the

deposits. DOOR-JAMB OF BLACK STONE 4. There is a door-jamb or dvara - shakha of black

stone kept in the court-yard of a comparatively new

building called now 'janmasthana. The door- jamb may

have been fixed at the entrance of the garbha-griha of the

original Hindu temple. It shows two parallel mouldings,

one of which is purely decorative as it consists of

meandering creepers. The second mouldings is very

significant because it is divided into several rectangular

panels, set one above the other, each depicting a Hindu

deity. The lower -most depicts the image of Dvarapala , or

door-keeper, standing in tribhanga poses under a arched

canopy. The devarapala is wearing a karanda mukuta on

the head and a vanamala in the neck. In Hindu

inconography, when both of them occur together on the

body of a deity, the deity is necessarily to be Vaishnavite

in origin. The entrance of the canopy is like a trefoiled 214 arch with three semi-circular mouldings based on the

principle of oversailing courses, named "corbelied arch".

This ornamental arch rests on two pillars, emerging out of

purna-ghatas and beautifully decorated with a number of

mouldings on the top. The panel above the devarapala

shows a female deity standing in an arched gateway. Her

posture is also in tribhanga . The panel above this also

shows a female deity standing in tribhanga pose. The next

panel shows the mother goddess standing in the forntal

pose under a canopy. The 4 t h panel depicts a gana or a

young dwarfish male dancing under a canopy. The top-

most shows the beautiful image of salabhanjika, holding

a branch of the blossoming tree. It may be mentioned in

this context that the dvarapala is holding a shula, or a

spear, in his left hand. It establishes the fact that he is a

guardian deity, holding a weapon to protect the main

deity of the garbha-griha from all evil-doera. The right

hand, on the other hand, is held in vyakhyana mudra, i.e.

in a pose which is adopted by a deity when he delivers a

sermon to the visitors. It should be borne in mind that the

deity is standing on a full blown lotus, as was customary

with all the deities during this period. It is, therefore,

absolutely clear that the temple to which the dvara-shakha

originally belonged was dedicated to Vishnu or an

incarnation of Vishnu, most probably Rama, both are 215 essentially one and the same. MORE ARCHAEOLOGICAL DISCOVERIES OF ART
AND ARCHITECTURAL OBJECTS FROM A 12 TH
CENTUR A.D. HINDU TEMPLE--JUNE 1992 5. We are now on almost sure grounds that the 12 t h

century Hari-Vishnu temple constructed here during the

reign of King Govinda Chandra was destroyed, according

to the tradition recorded in various Indian and foreign

accounts, in the early 16 t h century, in all probability by

Babur's men. The parts of this temple which could be

gainfully re-used in the structure of the 'Baburi Masque'

were in fact re-used, such as the black stone pillars in the

piers, some carved blocks of stone in the walls and at

least one long piece of stone with lotus carvings in the

vitana , i.e., as a lintel. However, the parts which could not

be used, because of their unmanageable shapes, such as

the crescent shaped amalakas with corrugated periphery,

or otherwise, were cast-away and dumped in a pit nearby.

These details of the discovery and some of the

anitiquarian remains may be recounted as under. 6. ON THE 18 T H OF JUNE 1992, when the ground near

the Rama Janmabhumi was being leveled, a most startling

archaeological discovery was made at Ayodhya. At a depth

of about 12 feet from the ground level near the

Ramajanma Bhumi temple, towards the south and beyond 216 the fencing, a big hoard of beautifully carved buff

sandstone pieces was located in a large pit dug down

below the old top level. The location of the pit is shown in

Appendix II & III. 7. A careful study by a group of eight eminent

archaeologists and historians found that all these objects

are architectural members of a Hindu temple- complex of

the 12 t h century A.D. 8. The group comprised Dr. Y.D Sharma, former

Deputy Director General, Archaeological Survey of India,

Dr. K.M. Srivastava, former Director, Archaeological

Survey of India, Dr. S.P Gupta, former Director,

Allahabad Museum, PROF. K.P. Nautiyal, Vice-

Chancellor, Avadh University and former Head of the

Ancient History and Archeology Department, Garhwal

University, Prof. B.R. Grover, former Director, Indian

Council of Historical Research, Shri Devenra Swarup

Agrawal and Dr. Sardindu Mukherji of the Delhi

University and Dr. (Mrs.) Sudha Malaiya of Bhopal. 9. The temple: The experts, who visited the site on

behalf of the academic organization, "The Historians'

Forum", on the 2 n d and 3 rd of July 1992, are unanimously

of the view that the temple, to which these fragments 217 belong, is of the developed Nagara style of ancient temple

architecture which was current in northern India during

the later part of the early medieval period, i.e. the period

after 900 A.D. and before 1200 A.D. The temples of this

style are characterized by a distinctly imposing shikhara ,

which is a tall and tapering spire over the garbha-griha, or

sanctum sanctorum , which houses the main deity. 10. The Shikhara Amalaka: The developed Shikhara is like

a mountain with several tiers of subsidiary Shikharas , rising

one above the other and projecting partially from the main

Shikhara. The Shikharas are crowned with a very distinctive

circular piece of stone, called amalaka, which is shaped like a

cogged wheel, with bead-like mouldings along the periphery.

It is so very typical of the temples of northern India that no

one in the world who knows even a little about the Hindu

temples can cast any doubt about its position in the temple

structure. There are two examples of half- amalakas, in the

present hoard of objects, evidently used on the top of the

subsidiary Shikharas, called Shikhara of karmas , i.e. fring

spires. 11. The Shikhara Jala : The second most significant find is

the curvilinear part of the jala mouldings present on the

Shikharas. It is beautifully decorated with scrolls. It also 218 belongs exclusively to the north Indian temples of the period

after 900 A.D. since the technique of its carving involves the

method of scooping out the areas around the floral elements

so that the art-motifs are formed with surface absolutely

plain. It is called 'Stencil' technique. 12. The Capital: The third most noteworthy sculptured

piece of stone in this collection is a rectangular capital of a

pillar with beautiful mouldings in the form of highly stylized

lotus petals arranged as narrow parallel strips carved in low

relief around the capital. 13. The Cornice : The fourth example of stone sculptures

belongs to the most characteristic members of the Nagara

style of temples - it is called Chhadya, and in Hindi Chhajja,

sun-shade, where the straight wall over the high plinth meets

the base of the Shikhara. It is carved and shaped like

rectangular Mangalore tiles to serve not only as a sun-shade

but also allow the rain water to run off quickly and protect the

structure. It is a corner-stone of the cornice. 14. Floral freize : There is one frieze of continuous leaf-

molding which decorates one of the top lines of the high

plinth of the temple. 15. Door-jamb : There is one example of a door-jamb or 219 dvara-shakha of the main entrance of the temple. It is

decorated with a meandering floral design, carved in 'Stencil'

style. 16. Images of Vihnu's Incarnations : There is also a

fragment of a steel embellished with the most significant

sculptures of a number of Vaishnavite gods, viz. a

Chakrapurusha , i.e. a youthful male figure standing gracefully

at an angle (tribhanga ) and holding vertically in the palm of

the right hand the characteristic wheel or chakra of Vishnu. 17. Another image is that of Parashurama, sitting cross-

legged and holding a battle-axe in the left hand. Below him is

the image of Balarama, the elder brother of Krishna, with a

canopy of serpent-hoods and having a wine-cup in his hand.

Still below him is the image of mother Goddess (matri-devi ),

the bestower of all good luck. 18. Shiva-Parvati : Besides the above, there are several other

images. One is of Shiva -Parvati, also called Uma-

Maheshvara. It was found from a shallow mound called Nala,

located some 200 metres away from the site of the above

hoard of art and architectural pieces. Though Shiva's head is

now lost, his hand holding a trishula , trident, is fully intact.

Similarly, although Parvati's face is not extant, her hand from

behind Shiva's neck is found resting on his right shoulder in 220 an embracing position. Stylistically, it is also datable to the

11 th century. 19. Terracotta Figurines: Art objects of burnt clay belonging

to the earlier periods, such as the Kushana ( Ist-erd century)

have also found. These images to various Hindu gods and

goddesses. SOME ANTIQUITIES DISCOVERED ON 6 TH Dec. 1992 20. It is gathered, that more than 250 objects, many of them

belonging to ancient temples, were collected by the Kar

Sevaks from the debris of Rama Janmabhumi-Babari Masjid

Complex on the 6 th Dec. 1992 and bodily shifted to a place

called Rama Katha Kunj, hardly 200 mts. from the complex.

The Rama Katha Kunj has a small semi-permanent building

with about half-a-dozen rooms constructed by the VHP for

their own use. Some of these rooms were just the store-

rooms, practically closed quarters with very poor light and

ventilation. These objects of stone and metal were locked by

the U.P. Govt. in a couple of these 'store rooms', sometime in

the third or fourth week of December 1992, where they are

still lying threatened in terms of their physical condition--we

apprehend that unless these are immediately shifted to the

properly ventilated and lighted galleries of a public museum,

where constant vigil is generally kept on the preservation and 221 Conservation of the Exhibits, these invaluable objects of our

national heritage may get damaged sooner than we can

imagine. It is proposed that these objects are shifted, housed

and displayed along with forty and odd number of objects

collected in June 1992 and presented at the Ram katha

Museum, Ayodhya, functioning under the direct control of the

dept. of Culture, Govt. of Uttar Pradesh. But this is

besides the point, even though in a sense very vital for

the nation. Inscriptions

(1) A stone-tablet Vishnu-Hari Temple Inscription of

 20 line text composed in Sanskrit language and

 written in Nagari Script of 11qth -12 t h century style.

 It is securely dated in the first half of the 12 t h

 century A.D.

(2) An eight line fragmentary inscription on a stone

 pillar, composed in Sanskrit language and written in

 Nagari script of 11 t h -12 t h century A.D. It is datable

 to mid-to late 12 t h century A.D.

(3) A two -line fragmentary Sanskrit inscription

 engraved on a stone pillar in Nagari Script. It is

 datable to mid-12 t h century A.D.

 Images 222 (4) A standing image of Vishnu wearing a long

 vanamala. Highly weathered. Engraved on dvara-

 shakha or door-jamb. Datable to 10 t h century A.D.

(5) A head of Shiva Bhairava with tall jata-juta hair- do. Covering the head, wide open eyes and two

 protruding teeth. Datable to the early 12 t h century

 A.D.

(6) A severely damaged image of standing deity

 intribhanga pose, possibly Ganesha with a rishi (?),

 seen from the back, under a narrative panel raised

 and supported by the yaksha. Datable to early 12 t h

 century. (7) A long frieze of garland-bearer couples

 (vidyadharas). Datable to early 12 t h Century.

(8) A fragmentary frieze of vidyadharas . Datable to

 early 12 t h Century. Architectural Pieces

(9) Another dvara-shakha (door-Jamb)with four

 parallel vertical friezes showing floral motifs.

 Datable to 10 t h century Vishnu image. (10) A top-stone of the Jala decoration of the

 Shikhara . Showing floral designs. Cut in stencil 223 technique. Datable to 12 t h century. (11) A large fragment of the ceiling, bluish dark stone,

 showing meandering creepers with two human

 figures, arranged in concentric rectangles. Datable

 to 12 t h century. (12) A section of frieze showing flowers and leaves

 interconnected roundels, with upper and lower

 borders of closely placed beads, the bottom has

 running us. The deeply cut crevices are found: Datable to 11 t h -12 t h century. Persian Inscription

(15) There is a large fragment of the Persian

 inscription which was once fixed on the top of the

 main entrance of the central domed chamber.

 Datable to early 16 t h century. (16) Central piece of the ceiling of the dome 224 decorated with fully opened flower and iron chain.

 Datable to 16 t h century. (17) Avitana stone or lintel, once found fixed on the

 main entrance of the 'mosque'. It bears lotus motifs

 of Hindu sacred symbols. Datable to 11 t h -12 t h

 century. PIECES OF ARCHAEOLOGICAL EVIDENCE IN
FAVOUR OF HINDU TEMPLE EXISTING AT RAMA
JANMA-BHUMI PRIOR TO THE CONSTRUCTION
'BABARI MASJID'
 Like various other sources of history, archeology

 may also play a very important role in decision-

 making process aimed at solving the question

 whether: a Hindu Temple, or else, a Hindu religious

 structure, - existed at the place called ' Rama

 Janmabhumi- Babari Masjid complex' prior to the

 building of the so-called Babari Masjid. Archeology

 has to offer at least 43 pieces of evidence to prove

 that yes, there did exist at Rama Janmabhumi a

 magnificent Hindu temple since at least the 12 t h

 century A.D., i.e. around 400 years prior to the

 construction of the so-called Babari Masjid in the

 16 t h century A.D.

 THE INSCRIPTIONS 1) The Vishnu-Hari Temple stone inscription

 composed. In Sanskrit and written in 11-12 t h century 225 Nagari script. It clearly mentions the construction of

a Hindu temple at Ayodhya during the reign of

Govind Chandra Deva (1114-1154 A.D) of the

Gahadval dynasty. 2) Two fragmentary inscriptions on a pillar--

Sanskrit Language and also 11 t h -12 t h century A.D.

script. 3) Letter 'Si', of the Nagari script of 11 t h -12 t h

century engraved on a black stone pillar. 4) There were 14 black stone pillars fixed in the

body-structure of the so-called 'Babari Masjid',

each bearing images of Hindu gods and goddesses

besides various sacred faunal, floral and geometric

motifs which are absolutely non-Islamic. There are

two more similar black stone pillars, fixed upside. 5) The Kamlaa flower on the pillars as well the

lintel stone and the chhadya stones. 6) The Kalpadruma or meandering creeper on the

door -jamb and on lata moulding of the shikhara of

the temple. 10) The Yajnopavita on the body of Chakrapursha. 226 28) The Adhisthana stone of a Hindu temple on which ran

 below the eastern boundary wall of the so-called 'Babari 227 Mosque'. Sri Jain submitted that the evidence on revenue record

belies the version of the plaintiffs that the mosque was not

constructed after demolition of the temple. Thus, according to Sri

Jain even from revenue record and other materials, it can be

presumed that certain interpolations were made in the record and

the place was known as Janma Sthan for the reasons that Lord

Rama took birth and the temple was erected but the same was

demolished and Babri Mosque was erected over it. In this regard

his submissions are as under: nama). 2. As the settlement Report as a book of reference is

 admissible under the law, i.e., under the Evidence Act , its

 validity is unreliable. In the Regular Suit No.29 of 1945

 over the Waqf issue between the Shia Central Board of

 Waqf, U.P. Versus Sunni Central Board of Waqf, U.P., in his

 judgment dated 30.03.1946, Akhtar Ahsan Naqvi, Civil

 Judge, Faizabad maintained that the Gazetteer of the District

 or the Settlement Report as books of reference were

 admissible under Section 57 of the Evidence Act. 3. The revenue records relating to village Ramkot, Haveli

 Awadh, District Faizabad, are extremely significant and

 clarify the factual proprietary position of Janmastahan Vs.

 Baburi Masjid. As per land revenue procedure, they offer

 details of the numbered plots ( Khasras) of entire village

 Ramkot in respect of nature of land rights, their

 topographical position, the nature of the soil along with the

 area of each plot with compete further details, whether

 inhabited with abadi (population) or a graveyard or arable

 land growing particular crops along with fruit bearing trees,

 if any, and paying land rent or treated as Muafi ( exempted

 from rent payment), the wells, tanks, gardens, paths (roads), 229 Shiwalas (temples) graveyards and mosques, etc. In fact, the

 records comprise various categories of revenue documents,

 i.e., survey, bandobust (settlement), kishtwar khasra, khasra

 abadi, misl hadbast, khewats, Khasra Khataunis and mps,

 etc., right from 1861 AD. Till 1991092 A.D. All these

 records are available at the District record Office (Mahafaz

 Khana/ Tehsil Office/Nazul Office, Faizabad. 4. The plots of land traditionally associated with

 Janmastahan complex is shown mostly as settled with abadi

 (population) and constructions thereupon. 5. The first Regular Settlement Report (1861 ) of Kot Ram

 Chandra, appended by two maps, is the most comprehensive

 document relating to the Janmastahan is covered under

 khasra No. 163 with 9 sub-plots ( goshas, from alf to sin

 , i.e., 'a' to 'I') with total area of 5 bighas and 4 biswas.

 However, under column No.16 of kaifiyat, it is stated that in

 the area of Janmastahan there is one pacca well, trees whose

 number is recorded in khasra abadi and some graveyard

 (gabaristan). 6. For each of the 9 sub-plots, the area has been recorded. Of the total 5 bighas, 4 biswas area of Janmastahan (vide

 khasra No.163 ) complex, 4 bighas, 13 biswas are owned by

 the Nazul Department (Sarkar Bahadur Nazul) as superior 230 malik and Hindus Mahants as subordinate proprietors

(malikan-i-matahi), whereas 11 biswas owned by Hindu

mahand are put under the Mahal of Azhar Hussain, etc. ( the

lambardars). Unlike the detailed description of the sub-plots

of the other khasra Nos., the 1861 settlement does not show

any specific sub-plot/sub-plots which were under mahal

azhar Hussain and muafi (exempted from payment of the

revenue)have been put only at the top in the relevant

columns along with Sarkar Nazul, which is misleading and

apparently an interpolation effected at a later stage.

However, the position is partly clarified by Khatauni

No.1(attested by Mohammad Akbar, darogha nazul dated

25th September, 1878) which under the heading of column

2(name of thok patti) puts khasra no. 163 M in muafi (taraf

haqiqat muafi), the habitated (abadi) area of 11 biswas under 7. To the north of the present Ram Janmabhoomi-erstwhile

 'Baburi Masjid' and the walled compound (ahata), lay the

 inhabited (abadi) area covered by a structure still known as

 Janmasthan. In fact, all through the centuries, right till the

 late 19th century, the latter structure comprised only a couple

 of sub-plots of Janmasthan and formed a part and parcel of

 the entire Janmasthan complex and the road dividing the

 two structures, i.e., Ram Janmabhoomi /

 erstwhile "Baburi Mosque" and the present day

 misnumbered Janmasthan was constructed in the late 19th

 century during the British rule. This is well established by

 the revenue records. A careful study and comparison of the 232 1861 settlement map of the mauza (village)Ram Chandar

with the 1893 settlement map of the said village fully bears

out this fact whereas in the 1861 settlement map, the sub-

plots of the northern portion of the Janmasthan complex

(denoted by the present day so-called Janmasthan ) are

contiquous to the southern plots comprising the Ram

Janmabhoomi/erstwhile 'Mosque' structure alongwith the

walled boundary, in the 1893 settlement map, the former

northern portion of Janmasthan (vide khasra no. 163/5, also

named abadi Sita Rasoi) is distinctly separated from the

latter portion of Ram Janmabhoomi/ erstwhile 'mosque'

structure, etc., (vide khasra nos. 163/1 and 163/2) by a

regular road (khasra no.163/X) which runs from the border

of the Ayodhya city and Hanuman Garhi temple in the east

of the village towards the Janmasthan and after dividing the

latter complex proceeds towards the Jalanpur village in the

west. As this has become a permanent topographical feature,

this is equally reflected in the 1936-37 settlement map,

operative till date, wherein the road comprising (khasra

no.158) divides the Ram Janmbhoomi /erstwhile 'Baburi

Masjid' vide (khasra nos. 159 and 160) from the present

day misnomered Janmasthan (vide Khasra No.146). As a

matter of fact, the khasra kishtwar data of the 1861

settlement gives specific area as well as digical geographical

directions for each sub-plot in the Janmasthan complex 233 which comprised the areas of both the portions, i.e., The

 Ram Janmabhoomi/erstwhile 'Baburi Masjid' and the

 present day misnomered Janmasthan. 8. As district from the Khasra Kishtwar in the Khasra abadi

 parts of Nos. 431-456, Makan ( complex) Nos. 92 -93 ( as

 recorded corresponding tono163 of the former) show abadi

 (population) in this area. The khasra hadbast of 1861

 settlement (No.152) also mentions only makan Janmasthan

 (mansion of Janmasthan). Apart from it, the khasra abadi

 shows that the inhabitants of Janmasthan (sakna Janmasthan)

 also owned other plots/sub-plots (vide khasra Nos. 203,

 206,214) or owned musli (taproot) and imli (tamarind) trees

 in the other plots (vide khasra Nos. 451-52)of the village.

 This shows that the Janmasthan complex was fairly

 inhabited and that the mahants/bairagis of Janmasthan, with

 a network of land-ownership in the village, had a sound

 financial and social status. None of the khasra abadi Nos., as

 mentioned above, parallel to the abadi Janmasthan of Khasra

 kishtwar No.163, does mention the existence of any

 'mosque', though in the kaifiyat, they do mention the

 prevalence of pacca graveyard (qabarqah pukhta), a few imli

 (tamarind), musli (taproot) trees and makana (houses), etc.,

 on the campus. Even khasra abadi No. 444, conjectured and

 identified by the amended khasra Nazul record of 1931 234 being an equivalent to a sub-plot of khasra kishtwar No.163

 M of 1861 settlement comprising the Janmasthan, in its

 kaifiyat describes only ahata pukhta (pacca campus) and

 two trees (neem and ghauz)in possession of a Thakur of the

 Village. It no where mentions the existence of a 'mosque'. 9. Quit significantly, the hadbast map appended to the

 Settlement Report (1861) as well as the abadi map of Kot

 Ram Chander (1866) show only Janmasthan in the abadi

 Janmasthan complex plot no.163. They do not indicate any

 'mosque' therein. 10. Later on at the back of a duplicate of Khasra Kiehtwar map,

 Muhamad Akbar, darogha of nazul lands, dealing with

 heissue of rights of the land owners (Malikan) vis-à-vis

 tenants (muzarian)of the village and also the question

 whether there was nazul waqf attached to the pacca mosque

 built by the Emperor Babur and situated on Janmasthan,

 recorded on 25th September, 1878 A.D. categorically that (in

 the village Ramkot) there was no nazul land/house/garden

 assigned to Mir Mhammad Asghar (Khattib/Muazzan) for an

 expenditure on the said mosque. However, he further

 records, that the latter (Muhammad Asghar) had been

 granted some cultivable land/garden worth Rupees three

 hundred and two only (Rs.302/) in the villages of Bhuaipur

 and Sholepur. Apparently, this noting was done by the 235 darogha nazul in 1878 A.D. as Muhammad Asghar, etc., had

 already been given conditional land grant by the British

 Government in 1870, along with malkiyat( Proprietary)

 rights in land, subject to the rendering of the police and

 military service. 11. It may be observed that in the absence of the original 1861

 settlement hadbast, the recording of a 'mosque' at the back

 of a duplicate settlement map as late as 1878A.D. by a

 darogha of the Nazul lands is of peripheral nature, especially

 when the map itself does not comprise any indication of a

 'mosque' there upon. Even though the physical existence of

 an extraneous structure believed to be 'mosque' built by the

 Mughal Emperor Babur at the Janmasthan site was

 undeniable, most significantly, the revenue settlement maps

 of 1861, 1893 and 1936-37 A.D. do not bear any indicate

 only the Janmasthan at the site. 12. In the original document of the settlement report of 1861

 AD. Available at the District Record Office (Muhafaz

 Khana)/Tehsil Office, Faizabad, interpolations/additions

 have been effected in certain columns of the Khasra

 Kishtwar folios. In the District Record Office document,

 under column No.2 to the original reading of abadi

 Janmasthan, the words 'and juma masjid' have been added

 so as to read 'abadi Janmasthan and juma masjid' under 236 column No.3, to the words 'taraf nazul' , the words 'and

 muafi' have been added so as to read and under column

 No.4, to the words Sarkar Bahadur, ' and Azhar Hussain'

 have been added. 13. The above alterations' additions are confirmed by the fact

 that in the Tehsil Office copy of 1861 settlement, though

 under column No.2, the words'and jama masjid'have been

 added to the original words 'abadi janmasthan'in a very

 crude manner, the Tehsil copy does not carry any

 interpolation of 'and muafi'/'and Azhar Hussain' under

 column Nos. 3 & 4 respectively as done in the case of the

 District Record Office copy Moreover, the second settlement

 report of Ramkot dated 1301 F / 1893 -94 even though for

 Janmasthan, carries the same khasra kishtwar No.163 which

 due to clubbing of the sub-plots is divided into 5 sub-plots

 instead of 9 as earlier in the case of 1861 settlement, it does

 not record the name of 'jama masjid', nor does it put

 'muafti, under the relevant column nos., which have been

 shown only under Sarkar Bahadur Nazul. However, in su-

 plot no.1 163 /3 with an area of 11 biswas, Azhar Hussain

 and Tahir Hussain have been put as mahaldars wereas Mehta

 Balram Das has been recorded as subordinate owner (malik

 matahit), All the same, the word 'muafi' does not occur even

 in this column no. 14. In the 1301 F/1893 AD. settlement, the khasra No. of 237 Janmasthan, i.e., 163 remains the same as earlier in the 1861

settlement, though due to clubbing, the number of the sub-

plots is reduced from 9 to 5. In the Khasra kishtwar (vide

Basta No.132), further endorsed by the Khatauni (vide Form 15), the area of each sub-plot is recorded. As earlier in the

1861 settlement, the total area of the Janmasthan complex is

5 bighas and 4 biswas, of which 4 bighas and 13 biswas is

under nazul whereas 11 biswas (vide 163/3) are shown in the

mahal of Nazar Hussain and Tahir Hussain (the lambardars).

But unlike the 1878 Khatauni (as noted earlier0, the 1893

settlement records do not show it in muafi. As per Khasra

bandobast and Khatauni documents, the portion of the

Janmasthan area i.e., (the proper 'Ram Janmabhoomi'/

'Babari Masjid' land ) being under mahal nazul Sarkar,

comprises two khasra Nos., i.e, 163/1 and 163/2, with an

area of 2 bighas -14 biswas and 2 biswas respectively. These

are shown under habitation (abadi) and are vested in the

subordinate ownership and occupation of the Hindu Mahants

Raghuar Das, Gopal Das and Thaurdwara Sita Ram. Khasra

No.163/4 with an area of 7 biswas covers the road which

separates the Khasra Nos. 163/1-2, i.e., ('Ram

Janmabhoomi'/ 'Baburi Majid') of the Janmasthan area from

the northern portion of the complex with Khasra No.163/5,

named as abadi Stia Rasoi. The latter portion with an area of

1 bigha-10biswas, also being under nazul is vested in the 238 subordinate ownership of Mahant Kalyan Das. The detailed

 lists provided in the 1893 settlement records in respect of

 mosques, waqf, graveyards (qabaristan) and mutations, etc.,

 do not put any of the sub-plots, i.e., 163/1 to 1635 of the

 Janmasthan complex with either of these categories. 15. The kishtwar map of Kot Ram Chander, Pargana Haveli

 Awadh, Tehsil and District Faizabad, dated 1894-95 A.D.

 prepared after the 1893 settlement slightly varies in respect

 of the division of the janmasthan khasra No.163. It shows all

 the sub-plots 163/1-5 under habitation (abadi). The road

 which divides the Khasra Nos. 163/1-2 of Janmasthan from

 the northern wing with khasra No.163/5 (abadi Sita Rasoi) is

 shown as Khasra No. nill, i.e., 163/X, whereas khasra no.

 163/4 of the 1893 settlement has been shown as a sub-plot

 with habitation (abadi) to the east of khasra No.163/3. It

 seems that this redistribution of the Janmasthan sub-plots

 was effect in the aftermath of the 893 settlement. 16. The above map is significant in many a respect. In its list of

 depicted symbols, it does not cover the symbol of a Shiwala

 (temple ) or a mosque. But it does denote the symbols of

 abadi, road, graveyards (qabaristan), pacca well, nature of

 land (i.e., parti qadim ) and non-payment of lagan, etc. As

 such, it shows khasra no.163/1 (i.e., the site of 'Ram

 Janamabhoomi'/ 'Baburi Masjid') with habitation (abadi) 239 and a pacca well in then north-eastern direction. The sub-

 plot no.163/4 has shown with symbols of abadi, orchard

 (bagh) without the payment of rent (lagan). The sub-plot No.

 163/5 (abadi Sita Rasoi) to the north of the dividing road

 comprises the symbols of abadi along with 3 pacca wells and

 a portion of self - cultivated land (khud kasht). 17. Above all, most significantly, there is no symbol of a

 graveyard (Qabaristan) in any of the sub-plots of Khasra No.

 163 of the Janmasthan complex, though, there are symbols

 of graveyards in the neighbouring plots, i.e., Khasra Nos.

 161,158, 56-57, etc. Even though earlier in the Khasra

 kishtwar No.163 of the 1861 settlement relating to

 Janmasthan, the column(No.16) of the general remarks

 (kaifiyat) as well as the khasra abadi Nos. 444, 452 of the

 same settlement do mention about the existence of graveyard

 (gabargah) in the complex of Janmasthan, it is well

 confirmed by the above map that by 1894-95 A.d., there is

 no graveyard inany of the sub-plots of Janmasthan complex,

 Later on, this position is reiterated by the 1344 F/1936-37

 AD. Settlement report and the map appended to it. 18. As distinct for above revenue records, the Nazu department

 of the District Faizabad d(U.P.) also prepared its own

 amended Khasra records of the abadi settlements, (tarmimi 240 khasra abadi)in 1931 A.D. In these revised Khasras of

 village Ramkot, both 'masjid' and chbutra indicating the

 temple at Janmasthan have been recorded in Khasra No.583.

 The 'mosque' has been shown in waqf under column 'Name

 of the present possessor' (Nam Hal Qabiz). At the same time

 Mahant Charan Das in 1931 and thereafter Mahant

 Raghunath Das (1941) have been declared under -proprietor

 (Malik Matahit) of the entire plot. Moreover, in these Khasra

 records, Arazi No.586 with an area of 11 biswas, 16

 biswanis and 16 kachwanis (11-16-16) being in abadi is

 shown as graveyard (a pacca qabaristan known as Ganj

 Shahid)and assigned in waqf (waqf ahad Shahi ). 19. A note of caution is necessary with regard to the alleged

 Khasra and map maintained by the Nazul department in the

 Faizabad Collect-orate which is relied upon by the plaintiffs

 of Suit No.12 of 1961 (now O.O. S. 4 of 1989 before the

 Lucknow Bench of the Allahabad High Court), Sunni

 Central Board of Waqf and others Vs Gopal Singh Visharad

 and others. The map maintained by the Nazul Department is

 not authenticated, nor prepared under any law, nor is it

 according to any ascertainable scale. The survey made on the

 basis of the Khasra abadi and that map of the Nazul

 department at the instance of the Plaintiffs in that Suit has

 been rejected by the High Court's Full Bench which is trying 241 the case and a fresh survey has been ordered on the basis of

 revenue records in order to ascertain the exact situation of

 the land involved in that Suit. It is noticeable that the plot

 numbers given in the plaint of that Suit are based on the said

 khasra abadi of the Nazul department. There is no Fard

 Mutabigat comparative table between the plot numbers

 given in the khasra abadi of the Nazul department and the

 Khasra abadi maintained by the revenue Department of the

 Government. 20. In fact, the purpose of the Nazul (Municipal) survey and the

 map prepared in 1931 A.D. was to identify the

 encroachments made on the Nazul property. Such a survey

 may cannot take precedence over the regularly conducted

 revenue settlement operations and the maps prepared

 thereupon, especially when the title to land is involved. In its

 order dated 10.1.1990, the High Court directed the Board of

 Revenue, U.P. Sate, to survey the site and submit report

 accordingly with the assistance of the Municipal records and

 such other records which it considered to be useful and in its

 further order dated 23.5.1990 directed it to execute the

 commission and locate the plots with reference to documents

 on record only. The commissioner, Shri J.P. Srivastava,

 appointed by the Board of Revenue for the purpose,

 submitted his report on 25.07.1990 wherein he had located 242 the disputed property with reference to the Nazul map of

 1931, even though he conceded that the Nazul map and the

 settlement maps were on different scales and that it was not

 possible to juxtapose the two maps and prepare Fard

 Mutabiqat and correspond the Nazul. Khasra numbers with

 the settlement khasra numbers. Thereupon, the Hon'ble court

 passed another order directing the commissioner to submit

 supplementary report surveying and locating the property

 with reference to settlement maps of 1861 and 1937 A.D.

 The commissioner submitted his supplementary report dated

 8.2.1991. 21. In fact, the Commissioner instead of surveying the land of

 his own had just accepted the fresh map supplied by the

 Plaintiff, which in matters of details offered a completely

 inaccurate position in respect of Janmasthan/'Baburi

 Mosque', graveyards, the shilanyas site and various other

 plots. Such an act on the part of the commissioner for having

 accepted the Plaintiff's map and adopting it as his own

 official map for submission to the court was characterized by

 the latter as "wholly unwarranted". 22. Having gone through the pros and cons of the entire case,

 the Hon'ble Court in its Judgment on B.B.91, even though it

 refrained from calling the commissioner's report as

 'motivated', described it as "absurd". It refused to accept the 243 commissioner's view that correct map and report about kot

 Ram Chandra were possible only in reference to Nazul map

 and that the settlement maps were not correctly prepared. In

 its judgment, it refused to keep the report of the

 commissioner on record in the pending case. 23. As per procedure of the revenue settlement, the khasra

 Numbers in respect of kishtwar, khewat and khata khataunis

 often undergo a change due to alteration, addition and

 clubbing for adjustment with the neighboring plots from one

 revenue settlement to another. At times, a change in Numbers

 is effected even during the interregnum of the two settlement

 operations. However, they are all duly recorded in the

 Comparative tables of the Khasra Numbers (Fard Mutabiqat)

 appended in the ensuring settlement report as well as in the

 relevant Khewat and Khata Khatuani numbers. The khasra

 kishtwar, khewat and khata khataunis adopted in the 1344

 F/1936-37 A.D. continue to be in vogue in the latest revenue

 operations 1989 -92 A.D. However, the mutations effected

 during the interregnum have been recorded in the relevant

 revenue documents. 24. According to the 1344F/1936-37A.D. settlement the

 Janmasthan complex plots have been recorded in the khasra

 kishtwar under nos.159, some portions of 160, 158 (road),

 146 and 147 R [i.e., R( ) portion of 147] and the area in 244 respect of each plot/sub-plot has been provided. The major

 portion of the Janmasthan complex falls under khasra nos.

 159 (declared banjar - the site of Ram Janmabhoomi /

 'Baburi masjid'), 146 and 147 R(Abadi Sita Rasoi, across the

 road in the North), while some portion is included in Khasra

 no.160. The Khasra no.158, also forming a part of the area of

 the Janmasthan complex is recorded as a road (which divides

 the Khasra Nos. 159 and 160 in the south from 146 and 147

 R in the north respectively). 25.As per khewat record the khasra no.159 with an area of 13

 biswas is declared banjar land under Nazul vide Khata no.1;

 no. Khewat Matahitdaran (5a) 20 and Khata Khatauni 58/2.

 While the superior ownership rests with the Nazul, the

 subordinate ownership (matahitdar) is vested with 'Shri

 Dhanush Dhari Ji Bhagwan Virajman Mandir Bara Astah,

 Mohalla Ramkot, Shahar Ayodhya' through the basarbkari of

 Mehta Raghubar Prasad, disciple of ram Manohar Sahu,

 Bairagi, resident of the above temple. The khasra no.146

 with an ara of 1 bigha, 6 biswas, 7 biswanis (1-6-7) vide

 khata No.I, No. Khewat (5a) 32, no. Khata Khatauni 70/1 is

 under abadi. Here too, the superior ownership is with Nazul

 and subordinate ownership is vested with Har Har Das, Ram

 Sarn Das, Matahitdar, the resident of jamasthan. The Khewat

 No.160 (a) with an area of 3 biswas, 13 biswanis (0-3-13) 245 being under Nazul vide Nazul Khata No.1, No. Khewat

 51(21), No. Khata Khatauni 59/1 is vested in the subordinate

 ownership of the Hindu mahants /bairagis. 26.As regards the Khatauni documents the position of the khasra

 nos. 159 and 160 (a) is reiterated as already noted in the

 khasra kishtwar and khata Khatauni. Khasra No.159 vide

 khata no.1, khata Khatauni no.58/2, being under mahal Nazul

 with an area of 13 biswas of banjar is put under the

 subordinate ownership (malik matahit ) of who besides

 khasra no.159 also owns other Plots (i.e. , and 199 which are

 not a part of Janmasthan). The Khasra no. 160 (b) is also

 under mahal Nazul with an area of 1 bigha, 12 biswas. 27.In the Khatauni documents, the jurisdiction of Mahal Azhar

 Hussain has been shown separately. Of the Janmasthan

 complex, Khasra No.158 vide Khata Khewat No.2, khata

 Khatauni no.15 comprising an area of 4 biswas has been

 shown as a Path (road which divides khasra No.159 in the

 south from khasra No.160 in the north). To this Path, 3

 biswas and 9 biswansi (0-3-9) have been added from non-

 Janmasthan complex khasra no. 155/2 vide khata No.1,

 Khata Khatauni No.4, making a total of 7 biswas and 9

 biswansi ( 0-7-9) for the Path which has been put under

 mahal Azhar Hussain. At the same time, some portions of the

 Janmasthan complex under abadi without rent (lagan) under 246 khasra no.160 vide Nos. 160 (Jim), khata khewat no.2 ,

 Khata Khatauni no.19/1 with an area of 7 biswas, 3 biswansi

 (0-7-3) in the subordinate ownership of Rameshwar Das,

 disciple Gopal Das; Khasra No.160(d) vide khata khewat

 No.1, Khata Khatauni No.8/1 under abadi with an area of 3

 biswas, 17 biswanis (0-3-17)under the subordinate ownership

 of Raghubar Das exempted from rent (lagan) and No.160 M

 vide Khata No.2, Khata Khatauni No.14 under abadi and an

 area of kaacha village bigha, i.e. , 1 bigha, 6 biswas and 7

 biswansi (1-6-7). 28.In the 1344 F/1936-37A.D. settlement report, of the khasra

 nos. of kishtwar, khewat and khata Khatauni associated with

 the Janmasthan complex in the mahals of Nazul and Azhar

 Hussain as detailed above, there is no area in any of the

 plots/sub-plots, which has been shown as graveyard

 (qabaristan) or in waqf. 29.The map of khasra kishtwar of the village Ramkot dated

 1344-F/1937 AD of the settlement depicts the territorial

 boundaries of the khasra plots of the village alongwith

 symbols of various categories, viz., banjar, abadi, roads,

 temple (mandir), graveyards (qabaristan ) and pacca wells,

 etc. Of the khasra plot nos. of the Janmasthan complex,

 No.159 has a symbol of banjar land; no.160 has symbols of

 abadi and a temple in the north-east of the plot (shaksi 247 temple) along with a well to its east; no.158, a pacca road;

 no.146 (abadi Sita Rasoi), abadi along with a temple in the

 north-west and two wells ; no.147 (R) , mostly with a symbol

 of banjar land In none of the plots /sub-plots of the

 Janmasthan complex, there is any symbol of a graveyard

 (qabaristan), even though symbols of graveyards have been

 shown in the other and neighborly khasra plot nos., i.e.,

 172,173,168, and 169, etc. 30.In view of the position as available from the above

 mentioned original records of the 1344 F/1936-37 settlement

 of the village Ramkot, the Nazul record s of 1931 AD which

 have altogether different khasra Nos. of the Plots,

 unaccompanied by any table of equivalent khasra Nos. (Fard

 utabigat) are absolutely unauthentic with regard to waqf

 land vide khasra no. 583 and qabristan land vide khasra

 no.586 and other khasra nos. which have been considered to

 be a part of the Janmasthan complex. As already noted, even

 the second revised Report of the Survey Commissioner was

 rejected by the Hon'ble High Court of Allahabad, Lucknow

 Bench on 8.8.1991. 31. In view of the position as available from the above

 mentioned original records of the 1344 F/1936-37 settlement

 of village Ramkot, the Nazul records of 1931 AD which

 have altogether different khasara Nos. of the plots, 248 unaccompanied by any table of equivalent khasara Nos.

 (Fard Mutabiqat) are absolutely unauthentic with regard to

 waqf land vide khasra no. 583 and qabristan land vide

 khasara no. 586 and other khasara Nos. which have been

 considered to be a part of the janmasthan complex. As

 already noted, even the second revised Report of the Survey

 Commissioner was rejected by the Hon'ble High Court of

 Allahabad, Lucknow Bench on 8.8.1991. 32. Since the 1344F/1936-37 settlement, the annual revenue

 records of the village Ramkot pertaining to khewat and

 jamabandi, i.e. khata Khatauni have been maintained in the

 Tehsil Office/ District Record Office, Faizabad for all the

 years till date. For all the khasara plots of the janamasthan

 complex, the position stand the sane as in the last settlement,

 excepting that the entries of the names of the succeeding

 mahants as subordinate owners have been made in the

 relevant documents. The site on which the shilanyas was

 performed in November / December, 1989 falls under khasra

 no. 160, the major portion of which is under mahal Nazul

 Sarkar Ala. The khasara No. 160 being a large part

 measuring 5 bighas and 13 biswas, covers both Janmasthan

 and non - janamasthan areas and falls both under mahal

 Nazul and mahal Azahar Hussain. In this khasara no. related

 khata khewat and khata Khatauni Nos., apart from Nazul 249 (government) owning 3 bighas and 13 biswas,

 There are three other subordinate owners (malikan-i-

 mayahit) i.e., Sita Ram Sharan owning 3 biswas and 13

 biswanis , Awadh Behari owning 11 biswas, 7 biswanis (1-6- 7) respectively. The sub -plot of Sita Ram Sharan vide khata

 khewat no. 23 and khata Khatauni no. 54/1 falls under mahal

 Nazul. The sub plot of Ishtiaq Hussain vide khasra no.160 R

 and khata Khatauni no. 9 is under mahal Azahar Hussain.

 Here too, the subordinate ownership is vested with Ishtiaq

 Hussain and no part of his sub- plot has been shown with any

 grave yard or muafi or waqf . UNAUTHORISED INTERPOLATIONS IN REVENUE
RECORDS 33. In the settlement report of 1861 Ad, interpolations / additions
 have been effected in certain columns of the khata Kishtwar
 folios. In village Ramkot the total number of the khata
 Kishtwar is 167 and as per performa, there are 16 coloumns
 for each khasra. The first four columns records (i) the serial
 number, (11) Name of field (abadi, etc.), (iii) Name of thok/
 patti (nature of subordinate agency for revenue collection), (iv) name, lineage and caste of the owner (Nam Wa Waldiyat
 Zat Malik) respectively. The serial number of Janmasthan is
 163 with specific description under the columns followed by
 9 sub-plots with required description under each column in
 the copy of the 1861 settlement report available at the
 District Record Office (muhafaz khana), Faizabad under
 column No. 2, to the original recording of abadi Janmasthan
 ; and 'juma masjid' 250 Have been added. Under Column No.3, to the words
 taraf Nazul, and Muafi have been added so as to read
 and under column No.4, to the wards Sarkar Baharur, ' and
 Azhar Hussain' have been added

Evidence for interpolations : plots instead of 9 sub-plots as earlier in the 1861 settlement
 report. But it does not record the name of 'jama masjid', nor 251 does it put 'muafi' under the relevant columns, which have
been shown only under Sarkar Bahadur Nazul. However, in
sub- plots No. 163/3 with an area of 11 biswas, Azahar
Hussaqin and Tahir Hussain have been put as mahaldars
where as Mehta Balram Das has been recorded as
subordinate owner (malik matahit). (5) In many a other khasra kishtwar Nos. of the
1861 settlement record of the District Record Office, e.g.,
16,21,25,29,32 and 167 , there are clear instances of
tampering, rubbing off the original entries and overwriting
them with others. Ordinarily, such changes are never made
in the official revenue records and even when any change
has to be effected for the correction of an error, if any, the
original words are distinctly struck off to be substituted by
other words above it. But rubbing off is never done.

(6) Another evidence for determining the fact as to whether
it is a correction of an error by the scribe himself or a later
interpolation/ alteration is the ink whether thick or medium
or thin, as well as the variation in the handwriting of the
letters / words, if any, In the 1986 settlement document of
the District record Office, for Khasra Kishtwar No.163, for
all the columns, quite thick black ink has been used and the
handwriting is also uniform with the use of the same qualm
(read pen) The thickness of the ink, words and style of
writing is uniform. But for the words 'wa Azhar Hussin'
(and Azhar Hussain) put below the words of 'Sarkar
Bahadur' in column No.4 are absolutely dim in ink.
Thereafter the description about all the other sub-plots
(goshas ) is again writtenin thick black ink. At the same
time, for all the foios/ Khasra Nos. following khasra No.163
are written in equally black thick ink and uniform
handwriting excepting Khasra No.167 wherein again under 252 column No.3, the words taraf Nazul are in thick ink board
 handwriting here as the additional words wa muafi (and
 muafi) are written in rather thin and dim ink. Similarly,
 under column No.4, the original words 'Sarkar Bahadur' are
 written in thick black ink but the words 'wa Azhar Hussain'
 have been added in dim ink. It is very clear that the words
 'wa muafi' and 'wa Azhar Hussain' under column No.3 and
 4 of the both the khasra Nos. 163 and 167 are later
 additions. All the same, the handwriting of the scribe who
 made these additions both the Nos. is the same, even though
 it is apparently quite different from that of the original
 writing. He has further submitted that there was no Waqf associated
with the Babri mosque. Accordingly, on the basis of waqf no right
can accrue to the plaintiffs. His submissions are reproduced as
under:- 302/3/6 as nankar and muafi from the revenues of the
village Shahanwa for its own maintenance and out of this
income, they had been spending only a part of the amount
for looking after some of the essential needs of the so-called
'Baburi Mosque' situated at Janmasthan, kot Ram Chander,
Pargana Awadh, District Faizabad. After the first war of
Independence in 1857 (mentioned as 'Mutiny' in the Report
of the District Waqf Commissioner, Faizabad, dated
16.09.38), the British Government, apparently on political 254 grounds because of the loyalty and services rendered by the
land lord / pattidari family of the village Shahanwa,
continued the above mentioned amount in cash but from
1863 -64 A.D. onwards, the British Government considered
it expedient to commute this cash payment into a conditional
(mashrut) muafi land grant-a process which was completed
by 1870 A.D. when, as explained further, the revenue-free
land grant along with superior proprietor rights was
bestowed on Mohammad Asghar and Mohammad Afzal Ali
in the villages of Sholapur and Bhaharanpur but not in kot
Ram Chander were the Janmasthan 'Mosque' stood. As
such, all previous orders regarding the family grant to
Muhammad Asghar/ Muhamad Afzal Ali were superseded
by the final order passed in 1870 under the authority of the
Governor General in council, whereby a sanad for revenue -
free land grant was issued by the Chief Commissioner
Awadh. On representation from the family, a decree to this
effect was also given by the revenue authorities and entries
were made in the revenue records accordingly during the
same year (1870). Later on when in 1938 A. D., controversy arose about
the nature of the title to the land granted by the British
Government for the maintenance of the 'Mosque', Pir Mir
Taqi, the khattib and muazzan while tracing the genealogy
of his family claimed that the Mugal King Babur built this
'Mosque' situated on the site of Janmasthan and granted an
annual amount of Rs. 60/- and some arable land in madad-i-
maash in the village Shahanwa to Sayed Abdul Baqi
appointed as khattib and muazzan for his subsistence and the
maintenance of the 'Mosque'. Later on, after the fall of the
Mughal Empire, during the Nawabi period, Nawab Saadat
Ali Khan, king of Awadh increased the annual grant to Rs. 255 302/3 as /6 pies. But as commented by the Waqf
Commissioner, District Faizabad on 16.09.38, in this regard,
no written accounts wee submitted by the khattib and
muazzan family to the British Government for the
continuation or bestowal of fresh grant for the same
purpose. It has already been observed that although
Muhammad Asghar and Rajab Ali claimed to be direct
descendants of Sayed Abdul Baqui, the first khattib and
muazzan supposed to have been appointed by Babur, no
reference of cash assignment or madad-imaash land on
hereditary basis can be traced in the first regular Settlement
of the Village Shahanwa in 1861 A.D. All the same, on
repeated representations to the British Government by
Muhammad Asghar and Rajab Ali, the British Government
having discontinued the annual cash grant, granted afresh
land in muafi in the village of Bhuraipur and Sholapur in
1870 A.D. Later on the sanad issued by the Chief
Commissioner clarifies that the cash nankar of Rs. 302/3as/6
pies received by Rajab Ali and Muhammad Asghar as rent-
free tenure in Village Shahanwa under the former
Government (Nawabi Rule) was being maintained ( as
muafi land in the village of Bhuraipur and Sholapur) under
the authority of the Governor General-in- Council so long as
the object for which the grant had been made was kept up on
the conditions that the assignees would surrender all the
(previous) sanads, title deeds, and other documents relative
to the grant in question and above all, they and their
successors would " strictly perform all the duties of land
holders in matters of Police and any Military or Political
Service that may be required of them by the Authorities ...
If any one of these conditions was broken by Rajub Ally or 256 Mohammad Usgar or their successors the grant will be
immediately resumed". A serious controversy about the nature of the land
grant in the village of Bhuraipur and Sholapur earlier given
by the British Government to the assignees (khattib /
muazzan) which was also in a way connected with the '
Baburi Mosque' at kot Ram Chander, Ajodhya arose in 938
A.D. The District Waqf Commissioner, Faizabad (Eligible-
S.M.Omais) vide his decision dated 16.09.38 while
interpreting the sanad earlier given by the British
Government to the assigness (khattib / muazzan) maintained
that even though the grant was conditional on the
performance of duties of land holders in the matter of
Police, Military or Political Service, etc., the object for
which the grant was made was the maintenance of the
'Mosque'. He also stressed that the original object of the
state grant of Emperor Babur and Nawab Saadat Ali Khan
was also continued in the sanad by the British Government
after the 'Mutiny', i.e., for the maintenance of the 'Mosque'
and further that the nankar was to be enjoyed by the grantee
for so long as the object of the grant, i.e., the 'Mosque', was
in existence. In view of this, the Commissioner gave a ruling
to the effect 'clearly then the grant to Mohd. Zaki must be
regarded as waqf, the purpose of which is the maintenance
of the religious building known as the 'Baburi Mosque'. Muhammad Zaki, the (khattib /muazzan) ( also
mutawalli in case of waqf) raised serious objections to the
decision of the Commissioner, waqf Board. He maintained
that the particular grant of land in Sholapur and Bhuraipur
had been made by the British Government which was a non-
Muslim body and hence the grant could not be taken as a
muslim waqf. Moreover, as per sanad, it was conditional 257 grant subject to the performance of military, police and other
duties, etc., and in case of non-fulfillment of the latter
services, the grant could not be regarded as a Kuslim waqf.
He contended that after the annexation of Awadh, the British
Government in lieu of cash nankar and madad-i-maash (as
inherited from the Nawabi period ) granted land to
Muhammad Asghar and Muhammad Afzal and in the first
Regular Settlement (1861), it was entered in the latter's
malkiyat (ownership). Thereafter, on February 03, 1870
AD., Muhammad Asghar and Muhammad Afzal got a
decree in their favour whereby they were entered in the
revenue records as superior proprietors and possessors in
possession of the property ( malik-i-ala qabiz wa mutsarif
jadaid) and since then, their descendants have continued
with the same status. As such, the property falling in the
category of superior proprietorship ( malkiyat-i-ala) did not
fall in the definition of the Muslim waqf. He further
contended even though, the descendants of Muhammad
asghar, etc., had been bearing the expenses for the essential
items of expenditure for the maintenance of the 'masjid
Baburi', the family property was outside the jurisdiction of
the Muslim waqf Act, No.12,1936 as the major amount of
the income had been spent by them on their own
subsistence as madad-i-maash, etc This had always been
recorded in the khewat records as such. Apart from the above arguments, Muhammad Zaki
always maintained that Sayed Abdul Baqui, the First
muazzan/khattib of the 'Mosque' appointed by Babur was a
Shia and his descendants all through the ages, till date
belong to the Shia sect and could not be coerced to accept
the spurious contention that the 'Baburi Mosque' might be
put under the control of the Sunni Waqf Board. This position 258 was taken by the (khattib/muazzan) family before the
District Waqf Commissioner, Faizabad (1941). However, the
latter's Report (dated February 08,1941) simply reproduced
and reiterated the position earlier taken by the District Waqf
Commissioner in 1938 A.D. on the contrary, Muhammad
Zaki and Malik Hussain, etc., the (khattib/muazzan) vide
their Application dated 26th September, 1943 AD serial
no.26, submitted to the Sunni Central Board of Waqf, U.P.,
Lucknow, took a clear stand that there was no waqf for their
properties in the villages of Buharanpur and Sholepur with
total annual income of Rs. 528/14 as (Rupees Five hundred
Twenty Eight and Annas Forteen only, i.e., Rupees Three-
hundred-fifty-one and Annas six (Rs. 351/6 as ) from the
village of Bahoranpur and Rs. 177/8as (Rupees One-
hundred, Seventy -Seven and annas eight) from Sholepur.
They contended that earlier they had been bestowed grant
(atiya) by Shahenshah Babur and Nawab Saadat Ali Khan
and in the present case ( i.e. land/income from
Baharanpur/Sholepur) they were strictly governed by the
sanad nankar granted by the British Government. They
further maintained that the khewatdara (i.e., the revenue
authorities/ records) did not recognize this as waqf and that
it had been recorded in the revenue records only as nankar
muafi. Of course, in the past they had been looking after the
white washing, lighting arrangements of the 'Mosque' and
as well making payment of the salaries of the
Muazzans/Imams, etc., Malik Hussain, s/o Syed Muhammad
Zaki in his detailed letter No.5607 dated 20.11.43/22.11.43
in response to the Secretary, sunni Waqf Board 's
communication vide no. 5272 dated 27 October, 1943,
clarified his relation with the 'Baburi Masjid'. He
categorically maintained (vide para 5) that there was neither
any waqf for the 'masjid', nor there had ever been a 259 Mutawalli for it. Further, that his family has had muafi land
(in the villages of Buharanpur and Sholepur) and being the
lambardar ( head ) of the property and being ( good)
Muslims, it had been looking after the repair etc. of the same
and that he, too, as lambardar had been discharging this
obligation since 17 February, 1943 . He stated that the
expenditure incurred in this regad was from his family
property which was in muafi nankar and not in waqf (Vide
paras 8-9 ) . In this letter, he also gave some details about
the items of white washing , repair and floor carpet etc
relating to the 'Masjid' and some expenditure incurred in
this regard since October, 1941. ( Vide paras 2-3, 10-11).
Not with standing all this, the legal tussle continued and in
1945 A.D. it was considered that the muazzan/khattib
family ( At this time kalab Hussain, the brother of the
deceased Muhammad Zaki)had been all through Shias, even
though the prayers in the past had been offered both by the
Shias and the Sunnis. It is equally important to note that during the 1930's
 of the 20th century, as per statement of Muhammad Zaki,
 the Muazzan / Khattib even though he was looking after
 some of the essential items of the maintenance of the
 'Mosque'(i.e., whitewashing, lighting and flooring, etc.),
 from the income of the nankar /muafi grant held as
 malkiyat in perpetuity, he did not spend any money on the
 repairs of the 'Mosque'in the aftermath of the riot in
 Ayodhya in 1934 A.D. The Collectorate and the P.W.D.
 records of the District Faizabad bear out the fact that the
 entire expenditure for the repairs of the 'Mosque'was met
 by the District administration/PWD. Significantly, in the
 waqf records of the Sunni/ Shia Boards of waqf or the
 Collectorate/UP. Government Records, there is no mention 260 of any Mutawalli or waqf from the income of which the
 structure of the ' Baburi Mosque'might have been rebuil
 valuable revenue free grant of land held by Muhammad
 Zaki etc. in the villages Burhanpur and Sholepur allegedly
 a attached for the maintenance and upkeep of the same. An elementary knowledge of the Mugal agrarian
system/ Nawahi phase and the British administration in
India as we as well as as understanding of the nature of
various categories of land grants for administrative purpose
or to the religious institutions would clearly show that there
has always been a basic difference between nankar (for
personal maintenance) and waqf. In this regards, the
contentions of the grantees, i.e. Muhammad Asghar, etc. 19th
Century) and Mohd. Azkil Kalab Hussain/Malik Hussain,
etc. have been absolutely correct and tenable that their
properties in Shahanwa/Burhanpur/Sholepur could not be
categorized as waqf. As such, they do not show any waqf
relating to the alleged 'Baburi Masjid. Even in the Judicial
records of the various suits pending before the Lucknow
Bench of Allahabad High Court, there is no registration of
any waqf having any connection with the alleged 'Baburi
Masjid' as per records of the Sunni Central Waqf Board. After the above mentioned enquiry by the District
Waqf Commissioner, his report as prescribed under the U.P.
Muslims Waqfs Act, 1936 along with the lists of the Shia
Waqfs and Sunni Waqfs was forwarded by the U.P.
Government to both the Shia Central Board of Waqfs and
Sunni Central Board of Waqfs as each of the two Waqf
Boards were to publish the report along with their respective
lists in Official Gazette, under sub-section (1) of Section 5 of the Act. In the Shia -Sunni legal Tussle that followed, the
Sunni Central Board of Waqf claimed that it was published 261 as a Sunni 'Mosque' in the U.P. Gazette dated 26.02.1994,
even though in reality, the particulars of the ' Baburi
Mosque' or the qabaristan ( qraveyard) attached to it, do not
find any. Place in the list of Waqfs published in the
Government Gazette dated 26.02.1944. As the Shia Board Claimed it to be Shia Waqf, it filed
a suit to get over the effect of the Waqf Commissioner report
on the assumption that the ' Baburi Masjid' had been
notified to be a Sunni Waqf in the above mentioned Gazette
notification dated 26.02.1944 under Section 5 (1) of the
U.P.Muslim Waqf Act, 1936. Thus confronted with a faith accompli of the Baburi
Masjid having been included in the list of the Sunni Central
Board of Waqf by the Chief Commissioner of Waqfs under section 4 of the U.P. Muslims waqf Act ( XIII of 1925 ) as
well as by the Sunni Central Board of Waqf, U.P. and also
assuming the fact that the same had been published in the
Government Gazette dated 26.02.1944, the Shia Central
Board of Waqf U.P., as Plaintiffs in the Regular Civil Suit
No.29 of 1945, sought a declaration that the 'Mosque' was a
Shia Waqf together with the idgah attached to it at Jaipa
Nala, Ayodhya, and village Behrampur, Pargana Haveli and
20bighas odd land, known as sholepuri grove, in mahal
Bharanapur, in Tehsil and District Faizabad. As a matter of
fact, when face to face with the issue that under the law, the
'Mosque' had to be essentially attached with either of the
Waqf Boards, i.e. Sunny/Shia, the Waqf Board in the plaint
came upwith the contention that Sayid Abdul Baqt ( Mir
Bagi), the builder of the mosque', in 1528 AD, during the
reign of the Mughal Empror Babur, was a Shia and that
being the founder-waqf as well the first Mutawalli of the
'Mosque', followed since then by a lineage of successive 262 Mutawallias till date (1945)with kalab Husain as the
Mutawali in 1945 after the death (1944) of his brother
Mohammad Zaki and as such, the 'Mosque' was a Shia waqf
. Even though, as already stated, earlier Mohammad
Zki/Kalab Husain in the official documents submitted to the
office of the District / Commissioner of Waqf, had always
maintained that there had been no Mutawalli shince the
building of the mosque as they were mearly khatibs and
muezzins looking after the 'Mosque' by meeting some of the
incidental charges from the income of their personal
proprietary lands in the village of Sholapuri and Behrampur
which were not in waqf now under the compelling
circumstances, with a view to tide over the technical, legal
difficulty and to get the 'Mosque'legally declared as a Shia
Waqf, it was contended for the first time that the cash nankar
(Rs. 302/3 as /6 paisa) bestowed during the Nawabi period
and the properties in Sholepur and Behranpur granted by the
British Government , as revenue- free grants , confirmed by
a decree in proprietary rights, revenue free now passed in
favour of hereditary mutawallies who since then had been
observing the terms of the grant and filing accounts before
the S.D.O.

 It was also claimed by the plaintiffs i.e. the Shia
Central Board of Waqf, that its mutawalli was entitled to the
supervision of the 'Mosque' as it was Shia Waqf and that the
Chief Commissioner of Waqf had not sent the list of Sunni
Waqf to them even though the latter had included the
'Mosque' in its list supposed to have been based on the
publication in the Gazette. The Sunni Central Board of Waqf, in its defence
statement asserted that the 'Mosque' was founded by
Emperor Babur who was a Sunni and that its pheshhawar 263 khatibs and muezzins had been of the same sect until much
later on, one of the phes hawars / mutawallis in the pedigree
list i.e. Mohamad Afzal became a convert to Shia during the
closing peiod of the reign of the kings of Awadh, who were
Shias. It was also asserted that the 'Mosque' had always
been used by the sunnis of Ayodhya for saying their Friday
prayer and the Idgah as noted above, was quite independent
of the 'Mosque' and was similarly used by the Sunnis for
their Id and Baqrid prayers. In the continued litigation between the above two
parties, the Court of the Civil Judge, Faizabad, which tried
thecase as a preliminary issue, vide-judgment dated
21.04.1966 held that " no valid notification under Section
5(1) of U.P. Muslim Waqf Act No.XIII of 1936 was ever
made" relating to the specific disputed property. As such, the
judge made it clear that the allege notification of in
26.02.1994 did not specify the property in suit as waqf
property and that it was of no legal effect. This finding
became final between the two parties. Later on, in the case
of Gulam Abbas V. State of U.P. ( vide AIR 1981 S C. 2196,
pp. 2217-18, Paragraph 17,) in the case between the Shia
and the Sunni Muslims, the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India
also found the above mentioned notification of the U.P.
Government dated 26.02.1944 to be " of doubtful validity
and probative value," and held, it to be of no legal effect. As
such, in view of the judgment of the Supreme Court, the said
notification dated 26.02. 1944 was involved and that the suit
No.29 of 1944 could not have been filed under Section 5(2) of the Waqf Act, with the result that the judgment in that
case Date 30.03.1944 IN THAT SUIT IS WITHOUT
JURISDICTION and the findings recorded therein with
regard to the waqf issue are of no legal effect. 264 The earliest regular Settlement of 1861 A.D. as well
as the later reports confirm the fact that these had been
prepared taking into consideration the past records of the
Nawabi period as well. As a matter of fact, as per the
original documents, the entire complex of Janmasthan is
covered under khasra No.163 with 9 Plots, with total area of
5 bighas and 4 biswas. However, under column No.16 of
Kaifiyat, it is stated that in the area of Janamasthan, there is
one pacca well, three whose number is recorded in Kahasra
abadi and Khana grave yard ( qabristhan). As district from
the khasra kishtwar, in khasra abadi Nos. 431-456, (as
recorded corresponding to No.163 of the former) shows
abadi (Population) in this area. They do not mention the
existence of any 'Mosque', though, in the kaifiyat they
mention the prevalence of pacca graveyards imli threes and
makans (houses ) etc. in the campus. For 4 bighas and 13
biswas, the superior ownership of the land has been declared
in the name of Sarkar Bahadur Nazul ( Government), and
vide Khatauni No. I, 1878 11 biswas have been shown a
muafi under mahal Azahar Hussain. In the settlement of
1301 Fasli/1893 A.D, in the khasra kishtwar, the same
khasra number (163) remains, though the entire area is
shown under 5 plots instead of 9 as previously in the 1861
settlement report Both in the khata Khatauni/khewat the
Hindu Mahants of Janmasthan have been shown with
subordinate proprietay rights as malikan-i- matehit along
with their respective shares. But later on these nos. undergo
a change during the Fasli 1344/45 /1936-37 AD Settlement
Report but the position of1861 persists even in later
Settlements effected from time to time during the 19th and
20th centuries. It is also clear that the area on which the
structure of the ' Baburi Masjid' stood is a part of the
Janmasthan and under the subordinate ownership (malik 265 mataiht ) of a Hindu Mahant. This position was inherited by the early British
administration from the earlier records of the Nawabi and
the Mugal periods. However, in the Settlement Record of
1861 of the Mahafazkhana, certain later alternations have
been made wherein the name of Jama Masjid and the word
muafi has been inserted. In Plot No.163/1 the words
JamaiMasjid , uafi and Azhar Hussain under coloumns
No.2,3 and 4 respectively have been added. But the copies
of the same document prepared during the same year
available at the Tehsil office wherein only the word Jamai
masjid has been added in column No.2 but not muafi and
Azhar Hussain in column nos. 3 and 4 as against Muhafaz
Khanna Report clearly prove that the later additions are
interpolations, done perhaps during the past few decades of
the controversy. This is also confirmed by the fact that the
Khasra Kishtwar records of the second Revenue Settlement
effected in the year 1301 Fasli (1893 A.D.) do not carry out
such alternations or additions. These records still show the
area on which 'Baburi Masjid' had been earlier constructed
as forming a part of the Janmasthan complex and there is no
mention of any 'Mosque' nor any land assigned to it in
muafi. It is evident that interpolations in the settlement
Report of 1861 of the District Record Office ( Muhafz
Khanna), Faizabad have been done for a few other khasra
kishtwar nos. as well. All this needs a through probe on
scientific basis. As already stated, according to the revenue Settlement
effected in 1861 AD, the total area covered by khasra no.163
relating to Janmasthan has 9 distinct plots. There have been
two more settlement operations since then. However, in the
revenue settlements effected from time to time, the 266 khasra/khewat/khata Khatauni Number as well as the nos. of
plots undergo a change and there are also adjustments with
the neighboring plots. But the table of equivalent past
numbers and parts thereof along with the current (ha 1)
numbers Fard Mutabaqat )is always appended and forms a
part of the Settlement Report. In the latest revenue records
of 1397-99 Fasli/1989-92, the erstwhile Janmasthan
complex has been shown in four khasra Nos. , i.e.,
159,160-,146, and 147. The major portion of the Janmasthan
complex comprising Ram Janmabhoomi, the so-called
Baburi Masjid as well as the new Janmasthan falls under
Khasra Nos. 159,146 (vide khata Khewat No.35) and 147 R
wherein the names of the Mahants alongwith the areas in
their ownership have been recorded. Only some portion of
the complex falls under No.160 which too is shown under
mahal Nazul Sarkar. In brief , Janmabhoomi/ ' Baburi
Masjid' have been recorded under No.159 and 160. The
entire khasra No.159 has been entred in the ownership of '
Shri Danesh Dhari Bhagwan Bara Asthan, Ajodhya' whereas
some portion falling in khasra no.160 has been recorded in
the ownership of Sarkar Nazul. There is no muafi/waqf of
any type associated with the 'Mosque'. The entire Revenue records dating from the first
Settlement (1861 A.D.) have been examined. There is no
record of any of 'Baburi Masjid' any where in the
documents maintained by the Revenue Department of the
Government of U.P. at the Collectorate and the Tahsil at
Faizabad. The entire Revenue Records dating from the first
Settlement (1861 A.D.) have been examined. There is no
record of any of 'Baburi Masjid', any where in the
documents maintained by the Revenue Department of the 267 Government of U.P. at the Collectorate and the Tehsil at
Faizabad. As distinct from the above mentioned revenue
records, the Nazul Department of the District Faizabad,
(U.P.)also prepared its own amended Khasra records of the
abadi settlements. ( tarmimi khasra abadi ) in 1931 AD. In
these revise khasras of village Ramkot, both 'masjid' and
chabutra indicating the temple aqt Janmasthan have been
recorded in khasra no.583. The 'Mosque' has been shown in
waqf under colun 'name of the present possessior' ( Nam
Hal Qabij). At the same time, Mahant Charn Das in 1931
and thereafter Mahant Raghu Nath Das in 1941 have been
declared under-proprietors (Telir mataht) of the entire plot.
Moreover in these khasra records, arazi No.586 with an area
of 11 biswas, 16 bishwansi and 16 Kachwanis ( 11-16-16)
being in abadi is shown as grave yard ( a pecca qabaristan
known as Gang Shahid ) and assigned inwaqf (waqf shad
Shahi). A note of caution is necessary with regard to the
alleged khasra and map maintained by the Nazul department
in the Faizabad Collectorate which is relied upon by the
plaintiffs. The map maintained by the Nazul Department
is not authenticated, nor prepard under any lay, department
is not authenticated, nor prepared under any law, nor is it
according to any ascertainable scale. The survey made on
the basis of the khasra abadi and that map of the Nazul
department at the instance of the Plaintiffs in that suit has
beenrejected by the High Court's Full Bench which is trying
the case and a fresh survey has been ordered on the basis of
revenue records in order to ascertain the exact situation of
the land involved in that suit. It is noticeable that the plot
numbers given in the plaint of that suit are based on the said 268 khasra abadi of the Nazul department. There no Fard
Mutabigat comparative table between the plot numbers
given in the khasra abadi of the Nazul department and the
khasra abadi maintained by the Revenue Department of the
Government. In fact, the purpose of the Nazul (Municipal)survey
and the map prepared in 1931 AD was to identify the
encroachments made on the Nazul property. Such a survey
map cannot take precedence over the regularly conducted
revenue settlement operations and the maps prepared
thereupon, especially when the title to land is involved. In
its order dated 10.01.1990, the High Court directed the
Board of Revenue, U.P. State, to survey the site and make
report with the assistance of the municipal records and such
other records which it considered to be useful and in its
further order dated 23.5.1990 directed it to execute the
commission and locate the plots with reference to
documents on records only. The commissioner , Shri J.P.
Srivastava, appointed by the board of revenue for the
purpose, submitted his report on 25.07.1990 wherein he had
located the disputed property with reference to the Nazul
map of 1931, even though he conceded that the Nazul map
and the settlement maps were on different scales and that it
was not possible to juxtapose the two maps and prepared
fard Mutabiqat and corresponde the Nazul khasra numbers
with the settlement khasra numbers. Thereupon, the Hon'ble
court passed another order directing the commissioner to
submit supplementary report surveying and locating the
property with reference to settlement maps of 1861 and
1937 A.D. The commissioner submitted his supplementary
report dated 8.2.1991 appended by 14 Annexures, to which
serious objections were made by the Defendants. 269 In fact, the commissioner instead of surveying the
 land of his own had ' Baburi Mosque' , grave yards, the
 shilanyas site and various other plots, Such an act on the
 part of the Commissioner for having accepted the Plaintiff's
 map and adopting it as his own official map for submission
 to the court was characterized by the latter as 'wholly
 unwarranted". Having gone through the pros and cons of the entire
 case, Hon'ble court in its judgment on 8.8.91, even though it
 refrained from calling the commissioner's report as
 'motivate', described it as "absurd". It refused to accept the
 commissioner's view that correct map and report about kot
 Ram Chandra were possible only in reference to Nazul map
 and that the Settlement maps were not correctly prepared. In
 its judgment, it refused to keep the report of the
 commissioner on record in the pending case.

 Shri H.S. Jain, Advocate has further argued that on the basis

of material available on record, it can safely be presumed that there

was construction prior to the erection of Babri Mosque. The

Temple Janam Sthan was destroyed and it was converted into a

mosque. It is further submitted that plaintiffs cannot take any

advantage of two inscriptions found inside the mosque to establish

that the mosque was not constructed at the site of Ram Janam

Bhoomi temple after its demolition. His submissions are as

under:- Well, the order constricted or reconstructed inscription reads
 as under: worship must not continue publicly, nor must the sound of
bell reach Muslim ears.¹ It would be pertinent to point out
that, as will be borne out by others, too, in the sequel, the
mosque became better known as Sita Ki Rasoi mosque,
Mirza Jan does not mention the name of Bahadurshah's
daughter (Bahadurshah 'Alamgir ki beti ), nor does he
indicate the date of composition of her work. The king did
have a daughter, Dahr Afroz Banu 1. IBARATI NASIT. AT-I BISTO-O PANJUM AZ
 SAHIFAH-I CHIHAL NASA'IH-I
 BAHADURSHAHI KI BA-TARIKH-I
 PANZADAHAM SHA'BAN 1231 HIJRI NAQI. SHUDAH DAR KUTUBKHANAH-I MIRZA
 HAYDAR SHUKOH IBN MIRZA SULAYMAN
 SHUKOH DAKHIL SHUD AZ KITAB-I
 MADHKURAH NAQL KARDAH SHUD: ' Badshahan ulu 'I ,-azm ra iazim ki ...ghalabah-I
 aim-o Islam Malhaz dashtahhamahmushrikanra ma(i-I
 Islam daran , wa az akhdh-I jizyah ki bar kuffar-I
 fujjar ijra yaftah ast dar nah guzaran, wa jami' rajgan
 ra az hukm-i-ihqar-I roz-I idayanwa piyadahistadah
 Mandan bairun-I masajid ki dar ma' mutah-I khud-ha
 ba-farman-I badshahi sakhrah and ta inqida-i namaz-
 o khutbah mu 'af nah darand. Wa mu'ahid -ha-i
 Munud waqi-i Mathura wa Bandras wa Awadh
 waghyrah ra ki kuffar-i nabakar ba-I khud-ha jai ia
 mawaldgah-I Kanhaiya wa maqam-i Sita wa makan-I
 ra gardrgarh-i Hanuan gardr dadah and wa mi -
 guyand ki bad fath-i Lanka Ramchandra Hanuman ra
 dar an ja nishanidsh ast mismar gashtah bara'i
 taqwiyyat-I islam dar zn ham ja masjid ta 'mir shudah
 and, zn masjidiz az jum 'ah -o jama'atkyui nah
 darand, chunan-ki qadghan ast ki rasm-I buipatasfi
 ba-i' tan nah shawad wa sada-i naquas ba gosh-iaht-i 273 Islam nah rasad." Sahifah-I Chihal Nasa'ih-I Bahadushahi, quoted in
 Mirzaq Jan , Hadiquah-I Shuhada, p. 6 2. Kamalu'd Din Haydar Hasaniyy-u 'i Husayniyy, Qaysaru'i -
 Tawarikh, otherwise known as Tawarikh-i Awadh, Vol, II,
 p.117

 Begum, who died at the age of forty at Kabul on January 25,
1703, But she is not likely to be the writer of the book, for the
simple reason that the date of its composition cannot be supposed
to be prior to 1707, when Aurangzib died and was succeeded by
his son Bahadurshah. Had it been during Aurangzib's reign, the
book would have been titled after the name of Aurangzib rather
than of Bahadurshah. According to the Foreign Department
Political Consultations, December 28, 1855, No. 450, the Prime
Minister of Wajid 'Ali Shah 'referred to a book which existed in
the King's library written in the reign of Bahadurshah about the
year 1707 A.D. which contained an account of the masajid at
Hanumangarhi¹. The Persian text under examination des contain,
inter alia, an account of the mosque built at Hanuman's abode
(later named Hanumangadhi). In fact, while quoting the above
passage from the work, Mirza Jan prefaces it with a special
mention of that mosque thus; In short, these four mosques [Babari
mosque, Ram Darbar mosque, fort mosque, and Hanumangadhi
mosque] built by the rulers of the past were situated at Ayodhya
like four pillars of the faith. And there is clear description thereof
in the books of history, particularly (existence of) the
Hanumangadhi mosque is established by a passage of the Shifah-I
Shahi ( i.e. Sahifah-iChihal Nasa"ih-I Bahadurshahi), which
Bahadurshah' Alamgir's daughter has written ( comprising ) forty
sermons... ² This creates a strong presumption in four of the view
that it this book which the prime Minister had in mind. Thus, the
date of composition of the work transpires to be 1707 A.D. It
means that Bahadurshah had an elder daughter, too. Now, Mirza
Jan is not the only medieval writer to refer to the work under 274 consideration. While relating the tale of destruction of the Rama
Temple, Mirza 1. G.D. Batnagar, Awadh under Wajid 'Ali Shah, pp. 136-137 2. "Gharad yeh charoh masjiden banwaihu in sala ( in-i-
 madiyyah ki char arkan-i Imam ki (arah-Awadh meih waqi'
 thin our kutub-I tawarikh mein taseih hai,khususan
 Hanuman Gadhi Ki Masjid Barat-I Sahifah-I Shahi se ki
 BahadurShah Alamgir ki beti ne chihal nasaa ih likhi hai.
 Mirza jan, P.6
 Raja 'Ali Beg Surur, whom we shall have occasion to notice
in the sequel, hints at his sources including this work thus: 'It has
been dealt with in the books of history. And in the Sahifah-I
Bahadurshahi it has come to be described in detail with reference
to year and date. Whoever may choose may look into it. ¹ The
concluding sentence of the excerpt seems to suggest that the work
referred to therein under a shortened title was easily available
during the first half of the last century, may be in print.

 If the sahifah-I Chihal Nasaih-I Bahadurshahi is extant any
 where in print or in manuscript, it needs to be traced out and
 salvaged without loss of time. My personal attempt in this
 behalf, with the meager resources at my disposal, has not yet
 borne fruit and I had to make do with furnishing to VHP and
 through them to AIBMAC only the passage quoted from it by
 Mirza Jan. Mirza Hayda Shukoh's library must have come into
 the hands of the British after the 1857turmoil and transferred to
 some other institution by them. It should not be so difficult for
 VHP to track it down. There are over a dozen Urdu sources shedding light on the
 existence and demolition of the Rama Janmabhumi (Sita Rasoi)
 temple and erection of the disputed mosque on its site by Babar.
 Out of these I could lay my hands upon eleven, which are dealt 275 with below: Worship without a proper temple at such a sacred place and
 for such a long time. 10. Lachhmi Narain Sadr Qanungo, assisted by Munshi
 Mawlawiyy Hashim, Asrar-I Haqiqat, Lucknow, 1923, gives
 details about the replacement of the temple by the mosque. 276 11. Muhammad Najmu 'I-Ghani Khan Rampuri, Tarikh-I
Awadh, Lucknow, 1919, Vol, V, says: 'At Ajodhya, where there
stood the temple of Rachandra Ji's Janmasthan, there is Sita Ji ki
Rasoi adjacent to it, King Babar got a magnificent mosque built
there, which is the Jami 'Masjid, in 933 A.H. under the patronage
of Sayyid Musa' Ashiqan, the date of which is Khayr Baqi (923).
Till date the mosque is called Masjid -I Sita Ki Rasoi. And that
temple is extant by the side.... Babar got the mosque built after
demolishing the Janmasthan, and used in his mosque the stone of
the same Janmasthan, which was richly engraved, precious kasauft
stone, and which survives even today.' ² 12. Sayyid Kamalu 'd-din Haydar Hasani-u 'I-Husayni-I 'I-
Mashhadi, Qaysar-u 't-Tawarikh, otherwise known as Tawarikh-I
Awadh, Lucknow, 1896, Vol. II, locates the mosque in question in
Sita Ki Rasoi Temple (jami' masjid jo Sita ki Rasoi mein hai)
(p.111) as well as ' in the Janmasthan, namely the birthplace of
Rama son of Rajah Dasaratha, adjacent to the house of the Rasoi
of Sita wife of the said Rama '(masjid-I jami' bina-i Babar
Badshah waqu' Janmasthan ya'ni Masqat-I ras-I Rama pisar-I
rajah Dasraatha Mullasi-I makan-I Rasoi-I Sita wife of Ram -i
madhkur ) and acknowledges that all the temples of Ayodhya were
turned into mosques by the Sultan-s of the past (badshahan-I salf
ne tqmami mu abid-I Hunud shahr-I Awadh mein jahan bade
butkhane the masjid-I jami ' baja-I butkhanahi mukhtasar banwa
kar mudhdhin our jarub-kash muqarrar farmaya). (p.117) ³ 1. Lachmi Narain, assisted by Munshi Mawlawiyy
 Hashim, Asrar-i Haqatt. 2. Allamah Muhammad Najmu 'I -Ghani Khan
 Rampuri, Tarikh-I Awadh, Vol. V., pp. 200-201. 3. Sayyid Kamalu'd -Dins, II, pp.110 ff. Here, it appears, some words are missing in print between
 'Jami', and baja-i. Obviously, what is meant to be said is
 that the Sultan-s replaced big temples by jami' masjid-s and
 small by samal mosques. And this all is from a lega
 document dated July 1855 given by the author. 13. Haji Muhammad Hasan, Diya-I Akhtar, Lucknow, 1878,
says: Sayyid Musa 'Ashiqan built a mosque after leveling down
Rajah Ramachandra's palace and Sita's kitchen by order of Zhiru'd -Din Babar, king of Dihli, in 923 A.H., and king Mihiyy-u'd-Din
Aurangzib 'Alamgir built another mosque at the same place. ¹ 277 14. Munshi Ram Sahai Tamanna, Afgalu't-Tawarikh, being the
2nd volume of his Ahsanu 't-Tawadrikh in three volumes, Lucknow,
1879, describes Babar's mosque as 'masjid-I Janmasthan' ( Baqi-
mandgan ne masjid-I Awadh, Janmasthan mein panah ti). (p-110) ² 15. Muraqqahi- Khusrawi, otherwise know as Tawarikh-i
Awadh, by Shykh 'Azamat' Ali Kakorawi nami (1811-93), who
happened to be an eye-witness to much that passed during kind
Wajid 'Ali Shah's regime. The work was completed in 1869 but
could see the light of day as late as 1986, short, however, of its
section published separately and later, in 1987, under the title Amir
'Ali Shahid aur Ma'rakah-i Hanumangadhi, which alone is
germane to our enquiry, and the opening paragraph of which is
reproduced here in translation, omitting very few details: Ashiqan in the Janmasthan temple (butkhane Janmasthan
mein) in Faizabad-Awadh which was great place [of idol-worship]
and the capital of Rama's father.' ¹ Again: "Among the Hindus it
was known as Sita Ki Rasoi.' ² 16. Fasanah-I Ibrat, written by Mirza Raja'All Beg Surur (1787-
1867) in 1860 circa but published first in 1884. It says that a
glorious sky-high mosque was built up during king Babar's regime
on the spot where Sita ki Rasoi tomb (?) is situated, in Awadh.
During this Babri (dispensation0 the Hindus had noguts to be a
match for the Muslims. [The mosque] was built in 923 A.H. under
the patronage of Sayyid Mir-Ashiqan...There [on the
Hanumangadhi ] Aurangzib constructed a mosque ...The Bairagi-s 278 effacted the mosqueand erected a temple in its place. Then they
intruded into the 'Masjid-I Babari' where the Sita ki Rasoi' was
situated.- ³ The author adds that 'formerly, its is shaykh' Ali
Hazin's observation which held good' and quotes his Persian
couplet: 17.A work in Persian, written presumably in early last century,
 by a Muslim saint Mawalayiyy " Abdu i-karim, who
 belonged to the line of Sayyid Mir Musa Ashiqan at whose
 instance/under whose patrongage Babar is said to have
 ordered replacement of the temple by the mosque. It was
 translated into Urdu and probably enlarged by Mawalayiyy'
 Abdu'I-Ghaffar 1. Shaykh Muhammad 'A Zamat 'Ali Kakorawi Nami, Amir
 'Ali Shahid aur Ma'rakah-I Hanumangadhi , pp.9-10 2. Ibid, p. 10 3. Mirza Rajab'Ali Beg Surur, Fasanah-I Iorat, pp.121-122 4. Ibid. p. 122

 Under the title Gumashta Hatat-I Ajodhya Ya 'ni
 Tarikh- Parinah-I Madinatu 'I -Awaliya, which saw the 279 light of day at Ayodhya before 1932. ¹ It was later
published by the Nami Press, Lucknow in 1979 and
1981. The first edition -and I have not seen the 1979
edition -carried an account of how Babar decided and
proceeded to demolish the Rama Temple and build the
mosque on its site under the influence of Sayyid Musa
'Ashiqan. But the entire account is conspicuous by its
absence in at least the 1981 edition. I possess a Xerox
copy of the last, 1981 edition as well as page 40onlyof an
earlier edition. This page contains a reference to the
'Koji-I Rajah Rama Chandra Ji ( Ramkot), 'makan-
ipaida'ish' (birth-site), and bawarchikhanah rajah-
imawsuf ka ( the said Raja's Kitchen), and adds: And
now they call it Janmasthan and Rasoi-I Sita ji. Having
demolished these structures, king Babar got a majestic
mosque constructed. The reason for the construction of
this mosque will follow in the sequel,' ² The tragic tale of
vandalism and its subsequent details promised here have
been totally excluded from the 1981 edition. If not from
the 1979 edition also, which, we have not been able to
lay our hands on. The 1981 edition, too, however,
contains certain relevant indications.According to it, for
example, Babar came all the way from Kabul to Awadh
in disguise, donning the garb of a faquir, Qalandar to be
precise. Here he met Shah Jalal and Sayyid Musa
'Ashiqan and took some pledge before these saints in lieu
of their blessings to conquer Hindustan. The pledge has
not been spelled out here, but it has been made plain that
it is in pursuance of this pledge (iqrar) that he got the
mosque raised after conquering this country. ³ It is
obvious that construction of just a mosque of normal size
and shape is nothing compared with the conquest of India
to secure which Babar had to undertake the arduous 280 journey from Kabul to Ayodhya in disguise. We may, 1. Cp Avadh-Vasi Lala Sita Ram, Ayodhya ka Itihasa,
 p.3 2. Mawalwiyy'Abdu'I-Ghaffar, Gumgashtah Hatat-i-
 Ajodhya Ya ni-Tarikh-i Parinah-I madinatu ' I-Aliya,
 some older edition . 3. Ibid, Lucknow, 1981, pp. 61-62. Therefore, take it for granted that demolition of the
 Rama temple did form part of the pledge. The information contained in Mawlawiyy" Abdu 'I-Karim's
book is so germane to our enquiry and so pregnant with
implications that I consider it necessary to discuss its relevant text
in full. The author says: 'when a boy, Sultan Babar, who belong
the family of Timur, came from Kabul to the town of Awadh in
disguise, donning the garb of an ascetic. Those days, the town of
Awadh was under the Sutanate of Sikandar Lodi and the place was
a (Second) Capital of the Sultanate. Sultan Babar paid a reverential
visit to His Holiness Shah Jalal and Sire Musa' Ashiqan and
solicited occult favour from them, so that the ancestral Sultanate of
Hindustan might come into his hands thanks to the blessings of
those saints. Prince Babnar took leave of those personages, went to
Kabul, mustered an army, brought it to Hindustan, and fought with
Sultan Sikandar Lodhi (sic) at the (battle) field of Panipat¹. A little
later the author adds: 'Accordingly, in fulfillment of the pledge
kind Babar had taken before those saints, Babar appointed Mir
Baqi to it and got a magnificent mosque constructed... ² Here the
pledge taken by Babar has not been specified. Avadh-Vasi Lala
Sita Ram uses the original edition of the work, from which it
appears that the latest, edition leaves out the saints' reaction to
Babar's request, which is to this effect: Gumgashtah Hatat-I Ajodhya Ya ni Tarkh-I Patnah-I
 Madinatu ''I Awaliya(Lucknow, 1981), p.61 2. Chunanche Babar badshah ne jo iqqrae un buzurgon ke rub
 a-ru kiya tha Mir Baqi ko us kam parmuqarrar farma kar ek
 alishan masjid...ta'mirkarai." ibid.p.62
 The Faqir-s answered that they would bless him if he
promised to build a mosque after demolishing the Janmasthan
temple. Babar accepted the faqirs' offer and returned to his
homeland.¹

 This anecdote lights up an unsuspected corner of Babar's
career, not reflected in his memoirs. Yet it receives confirmation
from 'Abdu 'llah's Tarikh-I Da'udi which contains a remarkable
account of 'Babar Qalandar's meeting with Sultan Sikandar Lodi.
Writes Abdu'Hah: In one of the histories it has come to notice that
in those very days Babar Badshah, whose name was Babar
Aalandar, came to Delhi adorning himself with the garb of an
ascetic and entered the royal palace. One of the courtiers brought it
to the royal ears that a qalandar from among sages is standing in
the court feasting on the elegance of the sultan. Sultan Sikandar
bade some of his courtiers bring him in. When Babar Qalandar
emerged from the door, he immediately shook hands with the
Sultan, by the Sultan taking his hand into his inferred the greatness
of fortune in the Sultan's hand, and felt in his heart that the
affluence of his Sutlanate was stillabundant. Sultan Sikandar asked
him, "with what are faqir-s exalted?" Babar Qalandar said, "with
Qalandar -hood." The Sultan uttered this couplet extempore
(rather sardonically) : muqarraban-iChand hukm farmudand ki ba-durun
 aqrand, Chun babar Qalandar az dar dar-qnad, fi 'I-
 hal ba Sultan musafahah kard, ba mujarrad dast
 giriftan girant-I iqbal dar dast -I Sultan
 Sikandarpursid, 'Daewishan ba cheh musharraf and?" Mirza Jan writes: From old records and the tradition it is gathered
... that, after the triumph of Salar Mas'ud Ghazi, wherever in the
territory of heaven -like Hindustan they found magnificent Hindu
temples, the Muslim rulers of the pass constructed mosques,
monasteries, and inns, greatly spread Mahammadanism by
appointing mu'adhdhin-s (callers), teachers, care-takers,
devastated the paraphernalia of idolatry and bell -ringing, gave
grace and glamour to Islam, and vanquished the army of infidels.
And this to such an extent that all over Hindustan no trace of
infidelity was left besides Islam and no practice of idol-worship
survived besides worship of God. And the few Hindus who
remained safe from the hands of the Muslims became the slaves of
Islam, began to pay kharaj, became sudbdued and dross of
infidelity, they cleared up Faizabad and Awadh also from the filth
of false belief, inasmuch as it is a great place of worship and was
the capital of Rama's father. Here they broke the temples and left
no stone-hearted idol intact. Where there was a big temple, there
they got a big mosque constructed, and, where there was a small
pavilion, there they erected a plain camp mosque/enclosure
Accordingly, what a majestic mosque Babar Shah has got
constructed in 923 AH. Under the patronage of Sayyid
MusaAshiqan ! its date is " Khayr Baqi". ² It is still known far and
wide as the Sita ki Rasoi mosque. ³ 1. J.G.A. Baird, Private Letters of the Marquis of Dalhousir,
 Edinburgh, 1911. pa.357. 2. Mirza Jan, pp. 4-5 3. Ibid., p. 5 286 Sri Jain has further submitted that there is historical

backgrounds of continuous attack on temples of the Hindus and

the Court can take judicial notice of this fact under Section 57 Rule 13. These are notorious facts of the history and they have to

be admitted in toto. Apex Court in AIR 1977 SC p. 1108 Onkar

Nath and others Vs. The Delhi Administration para no.6 held

as under: 3-12; Wigmore Section 2571 footnote; Stephen's Digest, notes to Article 58; Whitley Stokes' Anglo-Indian Codes Vol. II p. 887).

Shutting the judicial eye to the existence of such facts and matters

is in a sense an insult to commonsense and would tend to reduce

the judicial process to a meaningless and wasteful ritual. No Court

therefore insists on formal proof, by evidence, of notorious facts

of history, past or present. The date of poll, the passing away of a

man of eminence and events that have rocked the nation need no

proof and are judicially noticed. Judicial notice, in such matters,

takes the place of proof and is of equal force. In fact, as a means

of establishing notorious and widely known facts it is superior to

formal means of proof. Accordingly, the Courts below were

justified in assuming, without formal evidence, that the Railway

strike was imminent on May 5, 1974 and that a strike paralyse the

civic life of the Nation was undertaken by a section of workers on

May 8, 1974." Attack demolition and construction of Mosques and

Madrsas in place of Temples and Religious Institutions had taken

place for the last about 1100 years and is a part of Indian History

from 712 A.D. In 712 A.D. Mohd. Bin Qasim an Invador from

Iraq attacked Sindh. King Dahir was defeated and forceful

conversion of Hindus into Muslims took place and various Hindu

religious institutions were demolished. History makes it clear that

foreign Muslim invaders demolished thousands of Hindu Temples. 288 In 1000 A.D. Mahmood Gazanavi attacked India and defeated

Raja Jaipal. In 1008 A.D., he won Kangra, in 1011 A.D.,

Thaneshwar and demolished a number of Hindu Temples

including Chakra Swami Temple and a large number of Hindu

idols were broken. In 1013 A.D. he also damaged Nandana, in

1016 A.D., Bulandshahr, Mathura and Kannuaj and demolished a

number of Hindu Temples. He also demolished Som Nath Temple

in 1025 A.D., and broken main idol in pieces and sent those pieces

of Temple to be placed in foot stairs of Jama Maszid at Gazni.

After Mahmood Gazni, Mohd. Gori also destructed Hindu

Temples and Idols at Azmer and constructed Mosques and

Madrsas in place of Hindu Temples. At Benaras, he demolished a

large number of Temples and constructed Mosques in place of

Temples. In 1194 A.D., Quttubuddin Aibak attacked Delhi. He

demolished 27 Jain Temples at Delhi and constructed Qubbatul

Islam Mosque. In 1196 A.D., he attacked Gujrat and in 1202 A.D.,

Kalinjar where he demolished a large number of Hindu Temples.

Mohd. Bakhtiyar Khilji attacked Bihar in 1200 A.D. and

demolished a large number of Buddhist Temples at Udantpur and

Nadia (Bengal) in 1202 A.D. and demolished a large number of

Buddhist Temples and constructed Mosques and other religious

places of Muslims in places of Hindu Temples. After Qutubuddin

Aibak, Shamsuddin Iltutmish attacked Malva in 1234 A.D. and

Vidisha. He demolished a old Hindu Temple of Mahakal,

destroyed statute of Vikrmajeet and took away Brass Idols of 289 Hindu Gods and placed at the foot step of stairs of a Mosque at

Old Delhi and asked the people to pass through these Idols of

Hindu Gods. After Iltutmish, Balban ruled parts of India. He also

attacked Hindus and Hindu Temples in 1254 A.D. In 1321 A.D.

Jalaluddin Khilji attacked Fort of Ran Thambore and enroute he

damaged and demolished several Hindu Temples. In 1292 A.D.,

his nephew Allauddin Khilji attacked Bhelsa and he too

demolished a large number of Hindu Temples and thrown idols of

Hindu Gods. He also proposed to make a Minar taller than the

Qutubminar by using materials of demolished Hindu Temples. He

also ordered his cousin Ulugh Khan to demolish reconstructed

Somnath Temple of Gujrat, who also damaged and demolished a

number of Hindu Temples. He also attacked Ujjain and

demolished several Hindu Temples at Ujjain. Like wise, he

attacked Malva and Chittaur (Rajasthan) where he demolished a

large number of Hindu Temples. In 1360 A.D. Firozshah Tughlak

another Muslim Sultan attacked and damaged Jagannathpuri

Temple (Orissa) by broking idol of Bhagwan Jagannath and

thrown at the foot stairs of Muslim Mosques and demolished

Jwalamukhi Temple at Nagarkot, Kangra and damaged Temple's

idol. Taimur attacked India in 1399 A.D. and started war against

Hindus on religious basis. He demolished a large number of

Hindu Temples. In 1392 A.D., Muzaffarshah, Governor of Gujrat

demolished reconstructed Somnath Temple again and constructed

a Mosque within the Temple, but after some time Hindus 290 reconstructed same Temple. In 1401 A.D., Ahmad, grand son of

Muzaffarshah, who took over as Governor of Gujrat appointed a

Daroga (Inspector) for demolishing all Hindu Temples of Gujrat.

In 1415 A.D., Ahmad attacked and demolished Sidhpur Temple

(Rudra Mahalaya) and in its place he constructed a Mosque. From

1389 A.D. to 1431 A.D., Sikandar (Boot Shikan) attacked and

demolished a large number of Hindu Temples and idols, who was

known for his pleasure by breaking Idols of Hindus. Between

1389 A.D. to 1431 A.D., he demolished Temples of Martand,

Vishnu, Ishan, Chakrvarti and Tripureshwar. There were no places

in his Empire where his Mantri Suha had not demolished Hindu

Temples. Babar, who established Moghul Empire, attacked India

and demolished Ram Janma Bhumi Temple at Ayodhya and

constructed a Mosque on the same place. After Babar, Humiaun

ruled India. It is described in history that Chchatri Temple at

Zehanabad was demolished by Humaun and in place of Temple a

Mosque was constructed. During the period of Jehangir Sikh Guru

Sri Arjun Singhjee was killed, Hindu Durg Temple of Kangra and

cows were slaughtered in the Temple. Shahjehan got demolished

about 76 Temples of Benaras in 1633 A.D. by ordering to

demolish all the newly constructed Hindu Temples. Demolition of

Hindu Temples by Aurangjeb is also well known to everyone.

When he was only Prince, he demolished Chintamani Temple at

Gujrat and in place of Temple he constructed Qubbatul Islam

Mosque in 1645 A.D. In 1648 A.D., he sent Mir Jumla to Kooch 291 Bihar, who demolished several Hindu Temples there and

constructed Mosaues in place of Hindu Temples. In 1670 A.D., In

Mathura, Krishna Janma Bhoomi Temple was demolished by

Aurangjeb and a Mosque was constructed in place of Temple.

Idols of Temple were placed at the stairs of Janhaara Mosque,

Agra. Temple Ram Chandra in Soron, Devi Patan Temple of

Gonda, Temples of Ujjain and all the Hindu Temples of Mednipur,

Bengal Temples and Idols of Jodhpur were also broken and

broken parts of Idols and the Temples were taken away to Delhi.

He also demolished Hindu Temples and Idols at Udaipur in 1680

A.D., 62 Temples of Chittaurgarh, 66 Temples of Amber,

Someshwar Temple of Mewar, Khanderao Temple of Satara. In

1690 A.D., he demolished Temples of Elora, Trayambakeshwar,

Narsingpur, Pandarpur and Bijapur. In 1669 A.D. He also

demolished several Hindu Temples at Tattha, Multan and Benaras

including famous Kashi Vishwanath Temple at Benaras.

Aurangjeb crossed all the limits of communalism and re-imposed

Zazia Tax on Hindus if wanted to live as Hindus. Tipu Sultan also

got converted Hindus and Christians into Muslims and

demolished several Hindu Temples and other religious

institutions. Above facts have been taken from the Books of various

Muslim Historians including Book "Tarikhen Yamini" written by

Utabi, Historian and Secretary of Mahmood Gaznavi, from the

Asarul Bilad of Muslim Historian of Zakaria Al-Qazwani, Muslim 292 Historian Nizami and Muslim Historian Ibn Assar at the time of

Mohd. Gori, Muslim Historian Hasan Nizami, from book

Mutkhatat Tavarikh of Muslim Historian Budauini, Book written

by Muslim invador Imad Jan Tuzuk Taimuri of Taimur, from the

Auto Biography of Babar "Tuzuke Babri", from Zuvadutul-

Tavarikh of Muslim Historian Shekh Nurul Haq, from Book

Atharuye Sanadid written by Sir Syed Ahmad, from the Book

Heroes of Islam of Prof. Fazal Ahmad, from the Book

Badshahname of Muslim Historian Abdul Hamid Lahori, from the

Book Voice to East Indies written by Barithailomeo, from the

Book Bhasha Poshani of Historian Sardar K.M. Panikkar, from

the Book of Bil Durent, from the Book Story of 'Islamic

Imperialism in India' written by Historian Sri Sitaram Goyal,

published by Voice of India. All aforesaid Historical Books are

relied upon by Sri Purshottam in his Book 'Muslim Rajnitik

Chintan Aur Akanchayen, published by Sumit Prakashan,

Maushambagh, Sitapur Road, Lucknow and from other Books of

History. Thus, on the basis of the aforesaid submissions Mr Jain

has pointed out that it was not for the first time that Babri Mosque

was constructed after demolition of Ram Janm Sthan temple but

prior to it thousands of Hindu temples were destroyed . He has

referred the history from 712 A.D. and onwards to show that the

temples were destroyed prior and afterwards of Ram Janmsthan 293 temples by Muslims . FUNCTIONS OF THE RULES OF EVIDENCE

 According to WHARTON the main function of the rules of

evidence is to narrow down the matter which comes before the

Court to the facts relating to those matters which have a logical

probative value in determining the fact and to prevent giving

judgments based on illogical conclusions or prejudice, and as an

aid to the administration of justice. CLASSIFICATION OF EVIDENE
 Broadly speaking, Evidence can be classified into (1) Direct

and Indirect or circumstantial evidence. (2) Primary and Secondary Evidence

(3) Oral and Documentary Evidence

(4) Real Evidence

(5) Original and Hearsay Evidence

(6) Presumptive Evidence. (a) Direct Evidence.- "By direct evidence is meant that the

existence of a given thing or fact is proved either by its actual

production, or by the testimony or admissible declaration of

someone who has humself perceived it." [(vide Cement

Corporation of India Vs. Purya , (2004) 8 SCC 270]. Direct evidence consists either of the testimony of the

witness who perceived the fact or the production of the documents

which constitute the fact which is in question. This direct evidence

is sometimes called original evidence which arises from the

personal knowledge of the witness. Direct evidence, if believed,

proves the existence of a fact in issue without any inference of

presumption. Pericipient Evidence.- "The term direct evidence has a second

meaning in the usage of many writers. The alternative term

pericipient evidence not ony avoids any possibility of confusion,

but is also more appropriate to describe the opposite of hearsay

evidence.. Pericipent evidence is evidence of facts which a witness

personally perceives using any of his senses." (b) Indirect or Circumstantial Evidence.- Indirect Evidence

otherwise known as circumstantial evidence is evidence that gives

rise to a logical inference that such a fact does exist.

Circumstantial evidence may be either conclusive or presumptive.

It is conclusive when there is a connection between the principal

fact and the evidentiary fact. It is presumptive where the fact rests

on a greater or a less degree of probability. The effect of

circumstantial evidence on consideration must be such as not to

admit more than one solution, and must be inconsistent with any 295 explanation that the fact is not true. 'Circumstantial evidence'..... may be defined as any fact

(sometimes called an 'evidentiary fact', 'factum probans' or 'fact

relevant to the issue') from the existence of which the judge or jury

may infer the existence of a fact in issue (sometimes called a

'principal fact' or 'factum probandum'). It is well to remember that in cases where evidence is of

circumstantial nature, the circumstances from which the

conclusion of the fact is to be drawn should in first instance be

fully established, and all the facts so established should be

consistent only with hypothesis of the guilt of the wrongdoer.

Again, the circumstances should be of conclusive nature and

tendency and they should be such as to exclude every hypothesis

but the one proposed to be proved. In other words, there must be a

chain of evidence so far complete as not to leave any reasonable 296 ground for a conclusion consistent with the fact and must be such

as to show that within all human probability the act must have

been done by the person." ESSENTIAL INGREDIENTS TO PROVE A FACT BY

CIRCUMSTANTIAL EVIDENCE ARE: Again, the circumstances should be of a conclusive nature

and tendency and they should be such as to exclude every 297 circumstances should be of a conclusive nature and tendency and

they should be such as to exclude every hypothesis but the one

proposed to be proved. In other words, there must be chain of

evidence so far complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for

a conclusion consistent with the innocence of the person and it

must be such as to show that within all human probability, the act

must have been done by him. Alfred Wills' "Wills' Circumstantial Evidence" (Chapter VI)

certain rules as to evaluation of Circumstantial Evidence as under : The circumstances from which an inference as to the guilt of

the accused is drawn have to be proved beyond reasonable doubt 298 and have to be shown to be closely connected with the principal

fact sought to be inferred from those circumstances (vide AIR

2003 SC 3601, State of Rajasthan V. Rajaram). There is no difference between civil and criminal cases in

the application of circumstantial evidence and their admissibility.

Regarding the appreciation of circumstantial evidence in civil case,

preponderance of probabilities should be looked at in deciding the

cases. It is function of the court to separate the grain from the chaff

and accept what appears to be true and reject the rest. In cases where only circumstantial evidence is available at

the outset, one considers the motive and opportunity to commit the

act. If the evidence shows that he had a strong enough motive and

opportunity to commit the act and the established circumstances on

the record considered along with the explanation, if any, of the

person exclude the reasonable possibility of anyone else being the

real person then the chain of evidence can be considered to be so

complete as to show that within all human probability, the act must

have been committed by the person. Parties have placed reliance over Gazetteers and certain

other books. They can be admitted in evidence in view of Section

57 of Indian Evidence Act. Section 57- Facts of which court must take judicial notice. 2. Judicial notice: facts of which Courts may take judicial

notice

 Judicial notice is the cognizance taken by the Court itself for

certain matters which are so notorious or clearly established that

evidence of their existence is deemed unnecessary. The Court is

duty bound to find out the law and apply it to the facts of the case.

(vide Mazhar Ali V. Hakimuddin , AIR 1965 Patna 489. In the words of the Supreme Court in Onkar Nath v. Delhi

Administration , AIR 1977 SC 1108, " Section 56 of the Evidence

Act provides that no fact of which the Court will take judicial

notice need be proved. Section 57 enumerate facts of which the

Court 'shall' take judicial notice and states that on all matters of

public history, literature, science or art the Court may resort for its

aid to appropriate books or documents of reference. The list of

facts mentioned in section 57 of which the Court can take judicial

notice is not exhaustive and indeed the purpose of the section is to

provide that the court shall take judicial notice of certain facts

rather than judicial notice. Recognition of facts without formal

proof is a matter of expediency and no one has ever questioned the 300 need and wisdom of accepting the existence of matters which are

unquestionably within public knowledge. Shutting the judicial eye to the existence of such facts and

matters is in a sense an insult to commonsense and would tend to

reduce the judicial process to a meaningless and wasteful ritual.

No Court therefore insists on formal proof, by evidence, of

notorious facts of history, past or present. The date of poll, the

passing away of a man of eminence and events that have

rocked the nation need no proof and are judicially noticed.

Judicial notice, in such matters, takes the place of proof and is

of equal force. In fact, as a means of establishing notorious and

widely known facts it is superior to formal means of proof. The list of facts mentioned in section 57 of the Evidence Act

of which the Court can take judicial notice is not exhaustive and

the purpose of the section is to provide that the Court shall take

judicial notice of certain facts rather than exhaust the category of

facts of which the Court may in appropriate cases take judicial

notice. Recognition of facts without formal proof is matter of

expediency and no one has ever questioned the need and wisdom

of accepting the existence of matters which are unquestionably

within public knowledge. Rules of Hindu Law, Mohammadan Law, or custom to

be judicially noticed. Where the Legislature has declared that the parties will be

governed in certain matters by Hindu Law or Mohammadan Law, 301 as the case may be, the rules of Hindu Law or Mohammadan Law

on those matters will be judicially noticed by the Courts. The personal law will be ascertained by reference to

authoritative text books, judicial decisions and the opinions of

persons well vested in those systems of law. These authorities are

sufficient proof of the general Hindu Law prevailing over large

tracts of country and populous communities. Any body living

among them must be taken to fall under those general rules of

law, unless he can show some valid local, tribal or family custom

to the contrary. In order to bring a case under any rule of law laid

down by recognized authority for Hindus generally, it is not

necessary to give evidence of actual events to show that in point of

fact the people subject to that general law regulate their lives by

it. Special custom may be pleaded by way of exception, which it is

proper to prove by evidence of what actually is done. There is one

essential feature in the operation of customs which necessarily

differentiates them from the operation of Acts of Legislature. In

the case of laws enacted by the Legislature, Courts have to take

judicial notice not only of the rules but also of those facts which

are necessary for showing that they have the force of law, such

facts consisting of the proceedings of the legislative body. In the

case of customs, the facts showing that they have the force of law

and that they govern the parties or the properties concerned

include the fact that the alleged rules of conduct have been

uniformly followed by the parties concerned of the community to 302 which the parties belong. This fact is one of which the Courts

cannot take judicial notice, unless it has been so often proved in

the Courts as to make further proof unnecessary. Thus, the Courts

may take judicial notice of a custom if it is generally prevalent

among a certain class of people or is well established by long

usage, e.g. a customary right of privacy prevailing in Oudh. When

the existence of a custom is generally known and judicially

recognized it is necessary to prove it by specific evidence. Where

a custom is repeatedly brought to the notice of the Courts of a

country, the Courts may hold that custom to be introduced into the

law without the necessity of proof. The privy Council in Raja Rajendra Narainv. Kumar

Gangananda, AIR 1925 PC 213: 1925 MWN 549: 89 IC 737, held

that after the existence of a custom for some years has been proved

by direct evidence, it can only, as a rule, be shown to be

immemorial by hearsay evidence and it is for this reason that such

an evidence is allowable as an explanation to the general rule. In

D.C. Bara Banki v. Receiver of the Estate of Choudhry, AIR 1928

PC 202: 32 CWN 1120: 53 IA 303, it has been held that breach of

a custom in a particular instance need not destroy it for all times.

In Effuah Amissahv. Effuah Krabah, AIR 1936 PC 147: 162 IC

461: 44 MLW 73, it was held that material customs must be proved

in the first instance by calling witness acquainted with them until a

particular custom has, by frequent proof in the court, become so

notorious that the courts take judicial notice of it. A custom cannot 303 be extended by logical process. In Saraswativ. Jagadambalal, AIR

1953 SC 201, it has been held that oral evidence as to instances,

which can be proved by documentary evidence, cannot be fairly

relied upon to establish custom when no satisfactory explanation

for withholding the best evidence is given. Custom cannot be

established by analogy and it cannot be established by a

priorimethod. Uzagar Singhv. Mst. Jeo, AIR 1959 SC 1041, laid

down that the ordinary rule is that a custom, general or otherwise,

has to be proved under section 57 of the Evidence Act. However,

nothing need be proved of which the courts can take judicial

notice. When a custom has been judicially recognised by the court

then it passes into the law of the land as proof of it becomes

unnecessary under section 57(1) of the Evidence Act. List of facts enumerated in section 57 not exhaustive of

the facts of which Courts may take judicial notice : Thus, the Court may take judicial notice of any fact which,

though not mentioned in section 57 , is judicially notified by the

English Courts, and of other facts which are notorious-e.g., the

ordinary course of nature, the standards of weight and measure, the

public coin and currency, and its difference of value in early and

modern times. That Ramayana is sacrosanct to Hindus, that Rama,

Krishna, Brahma, Mahatma Gandhi, to wit only a few, are held in

the highest esteem by them are matters of common knowledge and

courts can take judicial notice thereof under clause 13 of section

57 of the Evidence Act. Judicial notice may properly be taken of current events and

notorious facts, e.g., like a world-wide economic depression or a 306 political movement e.g., the "Quit India" campaign and the

accompanying disturbances of August, 1942. Courts can take

judicial notice of the anti-corruption propaganda carried on by a

State Government. A Court can take judicial notice of facts

transpiring in Court. A record of custom purporting to be prepared

by a public officer is admissible under section 57 without proof

that it was prepared by the officer by whom it purports to have

been prepared. The extent to which, and the pictorial delineation of

a scene are not matters of common knowledge but are matters for

experts. Judicial notice may be taken of the fact that original

telegrams are destroyed by the Telegraph Department after three

months. The Court may take judicial notice of the rules of

executive business of the Government. It may also take judicial

notice of the fact that the Courts of Wards is much concerned with

the welfare of its wards. A Court Martial may take judicial notice

of any matter within the general Military knowledge of its

members. The Court is justified in taking judicial notice of the

practice with the banks of charging interest on the overdrawn

amount. Court can take judicial notice of the fact there is a

flourishing colony of satsangisat Agra and there are centres in

most of the big cities in U.P.

 Facts of which judicial notice may be taken are not limited

to those of the nature specifically mentioned in clauses (1) to (13) 307 of this section. These are mentioned because, as regards them, the

Court is given no discretion. They must be recognised by the

Courts. As to others the Courts have a wide discretion and may

notice many facts which they cannot be required to notice. Thus a

Court can take judicial notice of "notorious fact," but the question

whether a particular fact is a "notorious fact" may be a matter of

opinion and somewhat controversial. The Court cannot smuggle

into the evidence its own opinion of controversial situation

distinguished as notorious facts. The Court must determine in each

case, whether the fact is of such well-known and established

character as to the proper subject of judicial notice. A proclamation

of emergency is a matter of general information of which a Court

can take Judicial notice. A matter of public history may be such a

fact. Consequently, the rule of exclusion should not be applied in

construing statutes, when the application of the rule is likely to

lead to injustice. The list of facts mentioned in the Section 57 , of which the

Court can take judicial notice, is not exhaustive. Indeed, the

purpose of the section is to provide that the Court shall take

judicial notice of certain facts, rather than exhaust the category of

facts of which the Court may, in appropriate cases, take judicial

notice. Recognition of facts, without formal proof, is a matter of

expediency, and no one has ever questioned the need and vision of

accepting the existence of matters which are unquestionably within

public knowledge (vide Onkarnath v. Delhi Administration , AIR 308 1977 SC 1108). STEPHEN in his DIGEST (7th Ed., Notes to XXVI to Article

58 at p. 179) has observed: "It may be doubted whether an

absolutely complete list could be framed, as it is practically

impossible to enumerate everything which is so notorious in itself,

or so distinctly recorded by public authority that it would be

superfluous to prove it". The following are some instances where the court took

judicial notice of facts which do not fall within clauses 1 to 13:- Section 45 of the Indian Evidence Act

 As a general rule, the opinion of a witness on a question

whether of fact or of law, is irrelevant. A witness has to state the

facts which he has seen, heard or perceived, and not the

conclusions which he has formed on observing or perceiving them.

The function of drawing inferences from facts is judicial function

and must be performed by the court. If a witness is permitted to

state not only the facts which he has perceived but also the opinion 314 which he has formed on perceiving them, it would amount to

delegation of judicial functions to him and investing him with the

attributes of a judge. To this general rule, however, there are some important

exceptions, which are enacted in this set of sections. When "the

subject-matter of inquiry is such that inexperienced persons are

unlikely to prove capable of forming a correct judgment upon it",

or when "it so far partakes of the character of a science or art as to

require a course of previous habit or study", the opinions of

persons having special knowledge of the subject-matter of inquiry

become relevant; for it is very difficult for the Court to form a

correct opinion on a matter of this kind, without the assistance of

such persons. Matters for expert testimony; competency to depose as

an expert

 Opinions of experts become relevant only when the Court

has to form an opinion upon a point of foreign law, or of science or

art, or as to identity of handwriting or finger impressions. This

section is, therefore, exhaustive of the matters on which expert

testimony can be given, though the expression "science or art" Annexure-IV
Gazetteers
Pages 34 to 128

 Gazetteers : Certain gazetteers have been relied upon by the

 parties. A gazetteer is a geographical dictionary or directory which

 provides important reference for information about places and

 place names including the map or a full atlas. This information is

 divided into various topics. Gazetteers of ancient Greece, China, 320 Europe are also available. Of late in this country after arrival of the

Britishers the gazetteers were introduced. In this context it is necessary to mention that certain official

gazetteers were published by East India Company and after

independence by the Government of India. The official gazette is a

Government Book and a publication in the official organ for the

publication of Royal proclamation, Government orders,

Regulations while the gazetteers is a geographical dictionary or the

historic account or the general description of any place or the

province, district and provincial gazetteers are quasi Government

gazetteers giving important particulars respecting the district or

province concerned. In this case parties have relied over gazetting

official gazetteers. I have tried to explain the scope of all the 3

publications of the Government. Gazette generally means the official gazette published under

the authority of Government. It is a publication of an official

character which contains Government Notifications,list of public

appointments and honours, legal notices etc. Official gazetteer is a

Government Book. It is the official organ for the publication of

royal proclamations, Government orders and regulations,

Government circulars, rules bylaws and other public notices. Needless to say that the Court can take judicial notice u/s 57 of the Gazette, official gazetteers, district and provincial

gazetteers. District and Provincial gazetteers provides certain 321 historic account also. The Court can take judicial notice of historic

events vide AIR 1977 SC 1708. Plaint averments have also to be appreciated while deciding

the controversy. The plaintiffs have come out with a case that in

the Town of Ayodhya Babri masjid was built by emperor Babur for

the use of Muslims in general. As a place of worship and for

performance of religious ceremonies and the land adjoining the

mosque is the ancient graveyard of the Muslims who fought and

died in the battle of Ayodhya between Babur and the previous ruler

which are shown in the attached sketch map. Learned counsel for the plaintiff has relied over certain

extract of the books regarding nature of the building. Plaintiffs

have filed Ext.82, extract of Memoirs of Babur by F.G.Talbot.

Further reliance has been placed on on Ext.85 extract of

Mughalkalin Bharat-Babur by S.Athar Abbas Rizvi. Further

reliance has been placed on Ext.90, extract of Moghukalin Bharat.

Plaintiffs have also relied upon extract of Memoirs of Babur by

John Leyden, extract of Baburnama by John Leyden and John

Erskine and extract of Baburnama by A.S.Beveridge. The plaintiffs

have placed these documents to establish that Babur had camped

near Ayodhya, but had not given any order for demolition of any

temple and even on his return from the East, when he had called

Mir Baqi at a place near Ayodhya, no such mention was made by

Mir Baqi that any temple was demolished at Ayodhya or any 322 mosque was constructed at the site of any such Temple while there

is specific mention of the desecration of the nude parts of the idols

of Urwa in Babarnama. Thus on the basis of these extracts the

plaintiffs have pointed out that Babar never visited Ayodhya and

the temple was not demolished at Ayodhya nor any mosque was

constructed on the site of any such temple. Needless to say that the

plaint averment is contrary to it where it has been specifically said

that there was a battle between the then Ruler of Ayodhya and

Babur and graves of Muslims who lost lives in the battle were

buried in the adjoining graveyard. Thus the mosque has since the

time of its construction been used by Muslims for offering prayers

and graveyard has been used as a burial ground. Learned counsel for the plaintiffs has further relied over the

extract of Epigraphia Indica, extract of Aine Akbari and extract of

William Finch from the book Early Travels in India to show that

there is no mention about the construction of Babri Mosque on the

alleged site of temple by Babur and Mir Baqi. Further reliance has been placed on Moghal India to show

that there is nothing in the book to establish that the moque was

constructed after demolition of any Hindu temple. On behalf of the plaintiffs following papers were also filed

to indicate that upto middle of 19th Century there was no such

belief that Babri Masjid was constructed after demolition of any

Hindu Temple and there was no mention of any such Ram Janam 323 Bhumi temple in the books of history. 198C-2/1-89(Ext.63/D-26) Book on "Ayodhya

Archaeology After Demolition" by D.Mandal." Plaintiffs have also placed reliance on serial nos. 40,41 and

42 to show that Babri Masjid was not constructed after demolition

of Ram Temple. The explanation has also been furnished about

"Ayodhya" by Hains Baker book in which it has been mentioned

that Babri Masjid was constructed after demolition of Ram Temple

only on account of the fact that author was influenced by the belief

of local people prevalent in Ayodhya in 1986 and has relied over

gazetteers written after 1865. It has further been urged that Ram

Janambhoomi by Dr.Radhey Shyam Shukla and extract of Amir

Ali book have no relevance because authors of these books were

not at all Historians and these books are also not based on any

source of history. As such their description is valueless. Learned counsel for the plaintiffs has further relied over

extract of certain gazetteers. Gazetteers of Walter Hamilton,

1815/1828 does not mention Ram Janam Bhoomi temple or

destruction of a temple and erection of mosque by Aurangzeb after

demolishing a temple and pillars in the Babri mosque were taken

from Hindu building and probably these pillers were taken from

the ruins of the palace. Edward Thorntone says that falsehood of 324 the tradition is that the temple was constructed by Vikramaditya

and it was demolished by Babar was proved by the inscription on

the wall of the mosque, attributing the work to the conqueror

Baber. Carnegi in his gazetteer for the first time evolve a theory of

Janam Asthan temple and construction of Babri Masjid that too

was based on no source of History and rather was based only on

local belief. He himself admitted that it was locally affirmed that

Emperor Babur built the mosque by demolishing Janan Asthan

temple. In two places in Babri mosque the year it was built 935 H.,

corresponding with 1528 A.D. is carved in stone with inscription.

This assertion goes to show that the Babri Masjid was constructed

in the year 1528. It is further urged that Babri Masjid being

constructed on the site of a temple after its demolition started from

the gazetteer of 1870. The assertions in gazetteers of Carnegy were

repeated in the reports of Millet, A.Fuhrer and H.R.Nevill. They

are referred as Ext. 5 to 7, Ext.7,8,9,11, Ext.10,12 and 13. In Ayodhya Ka Itihas writer mentions that on the basis of

inscriptions Mir Baqi constructed the mosque. Ayodhya Ka Itihas

Evam Puratatva Ext.O.O.S 5-3 is not a fare account but it deals

with certain extract with surcharged atmosphere as he is deeply

interested and involved in this case to support the claim of Hindus. RELEVANT FACTS CONTAINED IN GAZETTEERS

ARE ADMISSIBLE EVIDENCE UNDER THE PROVISIONS

OF THE INDIAN EVIDENCE ACT, 1872 AS SUCH THE 325 FACTS RELIED ON FROM THE GAZETTEERS

REFERRED EARLIER ARE ADMISSIBLE EVIDENCE: 2. In AIR 1995 SC 167 (Bala Shankar-Maha Shankar

Bhattajee. v. Charity Commissioner, Gujrat ) the Hon'ble

Supreme Court has held 'gazette' (SIC) 'gazetteer' is

admissible under Section 35 read with Section 81 of the Indian

Evidence Act, 1872 for being official record evidencing public

affairs and the Court may presume their contents as genuine.

The statements contained therein can be taken into account to

discover the historical materials contained therein and facts

stated therein is evidence under Section 45 and the Court may

in conjunction with other evidence and circumstances take into

consideration in adjudging the dispute in question. Relevant

paragraph 22 of the said judgment reads as follows: It is seen that it was lost in antiquity and no
documentary evidence in that behalf is available.
Therefore, from the treatment meted out to the temple
and aforesaid evidence in our considered view an
irresistible inference would be drawn that the temple
was dedicated to the Hindu public or a section thereof
and the public treat the temple as public temple and
worship thereat as of right. It is true that there is
evidence on record to show that there was a board
with inscription thereon that "no entry without
permission" and that only Darshan was being had and
inside pooja was not permitted. But that is only
internal regulation arranged for the orderly Darshan
and that is not a circumstance to go against the
conclusion that it is a public temple. Enjoyment of the
properties and non-interference by the public in the
management are not sufficient to conclude that the
temple is a private temple. It is found by the District
Court and the High Court that the appellants are
heredity priests and when the public found that they
are in the management of the properties they
obviously felt it not expedient to interfere with the
management of the temples. It is seen that the High
Court considered the evidence placed on record and
has drawn the necessary conclusions and inferences
from the proved facts that Kalika Mataji temple is a
public temple. It is a finding of fact . As regard the 329 oral evidence the High Court rightly appreciated the
 evidence and it being a question of fact, we find no
 error in the assessment of the evidence by the High
 Court." 3. Be it mentioned herein that the 'gazette' is an official

publication which contains government notifications, list of

public appointments and honours legal notices etc. which are

presumed to be genuine. While 'gazetteer' is a publication of

official guarantee which contains geographical, historical,

political, custom etc. of a particular District, State or Nation.

The dictionary meaning of 'gazette' and 'gazetteer' as given in

Mitra's Legal and Commercial Dictionary, 6th Edition, 2006

published by Eastern Law House on page 383 as follows: 4. In AIR 1986 SC 1272 (Umaji Keshao Mishram. v.

radhika Bai) the Hon'ble Apex Court has held that 'gazetteer 330 of Bombay Province' in 28 volumes published in 1982-84

under government orders; the 'gazetteer of Bombay city and

island' in 3 volumes compiled under government orders and

published in 1909; have been found source of much useful

information. Relevant extract from paragraph 35 of the said

judgment reads as follows: 5. In AIR 1966 SC 1119 (Shastri Yajnapurushdaji. v. Muldas

Bhundardas Vaishya) in respect of ceremony of initiation of the

sect of Satsangis the Hon'ble High Court has quoted an extract

from Gazetteer of the Bombay Province to judge their custom.

Relevant paragraph 49 of the said judgment reads as follows: 6. In AIR 1968 SC 1413 (Gopal Krishnaji Ketkar. v.

Mohamed Haji Latif) the Hon'ble Apex Court has quoted an

extract from Gazetteer of Bombay Province in respect of tomb

of a Muslim saint and Hindu Prince for its consideration of

facts. Relevant paragraph 4 of the said judgment reads as

follows: 7. Be it mentioned herein that as it appears from the above

referred three judgments being AIR 1986 SC 1272; AIR 1966

SC 1119 and AIR 1968 SC 1413; the Hon'ble Court in place

and stead of 'Gazetteer of Bombay Province' has mentioned

'Gazette of Bombay Province'. 8. In AIR 1967 SC 256 (Mahant Shrinivas Ramanuj Das. v.

Surjanarayn Das) in paragraph 25 of the said judgment, the

Hon'ble Supreme Court quoting with approval the facts from

'Puri Gazetteer' has held that the gazetteers can be consulted in

matters of public history and statement in such gazetteer can be

relied on as providing historical material, practice followed by

Math and its head. Relevant paragraph Nos.25 and 26 of the

said judgment read as follows: 26. It is urged for the appellant that what is stated in
the Gazetteer cannot be treated as evidence. These
statements in the Gazetteer are not relied on as
evidence of title but as providing historical material
and the practice followed by the Math and its head.
The Gazetteer can be consulted on matters of public
history." 9. In AIR 1975 SC 706 (State of Rajasthan. v. Sajjanlal

Panjawat) the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India has quoted with

approval an extract from the Imperial Gazetteer of India in

respect of famous giant temple. Relevant paragraph 12 of the

said judgment reads as follows: 10. In AIR 1960 SC 148 (Shubnath Deogam. v. Ram Narain

Prasad) the Hon'ble Apex Court has quoted with approval an

extract from the District Gazetteer in respect of religious

practices and sentiments of the Adibasis. Relevant paragraph

14 of the said judgment reads as follows: The facts stated in the District Gazetteer have been
 accepted by the Courts below as setting out correctly
 the religious practices and sentiments of the
 Adibasis." 11. In AIR 1959 SC 1073 (State of Bihar. v. Bhabapritananda

Ojha) the Hon'ble Apex Court has extracted facts from the

Bihar District Gazetteer placing the history of Shri Baidyanath

temple. Relevant paragraphs 2 and 3 of the said judgment read

as follows: XIV, p. 323). But these materials afford no evidence
as to when and by whom the idol was established or
the temple was built. 3. The temple sheltering the "lingam" and dedicated
to Mahadeva stands in a stone-paved quadrangular
courtyard. The courtyard contains eleven other
temples, smaller in size and of less importance than
that of Baidyanath. Pilgrims visit the temples in large
numbers and make offerings of flowers and money in
silver or gold; rich people offer horses, cattle,
palaquins, gold ornaments and other valuables and
sometimes, rent-free land in support of the daily
worship. There is a high or chief priest (Sardar Panda)
who it appears used to day a fixed rent to the Rajas of
Birbhum during the Muhammadan regime, and the
administration of the temple was then left entirely in
the hands of the high priest. It may be here stated that
about 300 families of "pandas", who belong to a
branch of Maithil Brahmins, were attached to the
temple and earned their livelihood by assisting
pilgrims in performing the various ceremonies
connected with the worship of the God. When the
British rule began, it was decided to take over the
management of the temple, and with this object an
establishment of priests, collectors and watchmen was
organised in 1787 at Government expense. The
revenue soon fell off, as the chief priest beset the
avenues to the temples with emissaries, who induced
the pilgrims to make their offerings before
approaching the shrine. (See the District Gazetteer,
ibid, p. 383). In 1791 Government relinquished its
claim to a share of the offerings and entrusted the
management of the temple to the head priest on his 339 executing an agreement to keep the temples in repair
 and to perform all the usual ceremonies. This
 agreement was entered into by Ram Dutt the (ancestor
 of the present respondent), then high priest of the
 temple, and Mr. Keating who was then Collector of
 the district. According to Mr. Keating the income of
 the temple in 1791 consisted of the offerings of the
 proceeds of 32 villages and 108 bighas of land which
 he estimated at Rs. 2,000 a year; some years later the
 total income was estimated at Rs. 25,000 a year.
 Under the system introduced by the agreement of
 1791, the mismanagement of the temple was a source
 of constant complaint; the temple and "ghats" were
 frequently out of repair and the high priest was
 charged with alienating villages from the temple and
 treating his situation as a means of enriching himself
 and his family. On the death of the high priest in 1820
 a dispute over the succession arose between an uncle
 and a nephew. The nephew Nityanand was eventually
 appointed, but neglected to carry out the terms of his
 appointment. Finally, Nityanand was charged with
 malversation of the funds and the uncle Sarbanand
 was appointed in his stead in 1823. There was a
 faction which was opposed to Sarbanand's retention in
 office and asked for Government interference in the
 internal management of the temple. In 1835
 Government declined all interference in the matter
 and the parties were left to have recourse to the
 established Courts of law. Sarbanand died in 1837 and
 Iswaranund Ojha, son of Sarbanand Ojha, was
 subsequently elected Sardar Panda. Iswaranund was
 succeeded by his grand-son, Sailajanund Ojha." 9. In AIR 1954 SC 575 (Choote Khan. v. Mal Khan) the Hon'ble

 Apex Court has relied and quoted facts from Gazetteer of

 Gurgaon District. Relevant paragraphs 4 and 6 of the said

 judgment reads as follows: 10.In AIR 1969 All 43 (G.S. Chooramoni. v. State of Uttar

 Pradesh) the Hon'ble Uttar Pradesh High Court has relied on a

 district gazetteer in respect of proprietary rights of the

 government lessees. Relevant paragraph 12 of the said 341 judgment reads as follows: 11. In AIR 1983 MP 75 (Ramdas. v. Vaishnudas) the Hon'ble

 Madhya Pradesh High Court has relied on and quoted relevant

 facts from Madhya Pradesh District Gazetteer of Bilaspur

 District in respect of historicity and practices followed by

 Sheorinarayana Math. Relevant paragraph 5 of the said

 judgment reads as follows: 12.In AIR 1996 Himachal Pradesh 102 (Kashmiru. v. Sh. Doud)

 the Hon'ble Himachal Pradesh High Court has quoted and

 relied on the gazetteer of dthe Chamba State in respect of

 customary form of marriage "Jhanjrara marriage". Relevant

 paragraph 11 of the said judgment reads as follows: 344 13. Section 35 of the Evidence Act, 1872 says, inter alia, that an

 entry in any public or other official book stating a fact in issue

 or relevant fact and made by a public servant in discharge of his

 official duty is itself a relevant fact. As such, the facts that the

 Hindus were continuously worshipping in the alleged Babri

 mosque which was erected over the Ramjanamsthan temple is

 itself a relevant evidence as recorded in the gazetteers relied by

 this defendant. The said Section 35 of the Evidence Act, 1872

 reads as follows. 14.That Section 45 of the Evidence Act, 1872 makes opinions of

 the experts, inter alia, in assistance or law are in question as of

 entity of hand writings or finger impression are relevant facts

 and admissible evidence. The opinions of experts as to the symptoms
 produced by the poison by which A is supposed to
 have died, are relevant. (b) The question is, whether A, at the time of doing
 a certain act, was, by reason of unsoundness of mind,
 incapable of knowing the nature of the act, or that he
 was doing what was either wrong or contrary to law.
 The opinions of experts upon the question whether
 the symptoms exhibited by A commonly show
 unsoundness of mind, and whether such unsoundness
 of mind usually renders persons incapable of knowing
 the nature of the acts which they do, or of knowing
 that what they do is either wrong or contrary to law,
 are relevant. (c) The question is, whether a certain document
 was written by A. Another document is produced
 which is proved or admitted to have been written by
 A.
 The opinions of experts on the question whether
 the two documents were written by the same person
 or by different persons, are relevant." 15. Section 57 of the Evidence Act, 1872, inter alia, says that the
 Court shall take judicial notice of all laws, public acts, public
 festivals, fasts and holidays notified in the official gazette as
 also on all matters of public history, literature, science or arts,
 the Court may resort for its aid to appropriate books or
 documents of reference if the Court is called upon by any 346 person to take judicial notice of any fact. As this defendant has
already prayed for taking judicial notices of the books
containing present laws of the Hindus and Muslims, others
books, historical books, gazetteers etc. and this Hon'ble High
Court has allowed the said prayer, the facts stated in those
books are admissible as evidence under the relevant provisions
of the aforesaid Section. Section 57 of the Evidence Act, 1872
reads as follows: 6[(4) The course of proceeding of Parliament of the
 United Kingdom, of the Constituent Assembly of
 India, of Parliament and of the legislatures established
 under any laws for the time being in force in a
 Province or in the State;]
 (5) The accession and the sign manual of the
 Sovereign for the time being of the United Kingdom
 of Great Britain and Ireland; (6) All seals of which English Courts take judicial
 notice: the seals of all the 7[Courts in 8[India]] and of
 all Courts out of 9[India] established by the authority
 of 10[the Central Government or the Crown
 Representative]: the seals of Courts of Admiralty and
 Maritime Jurisdiction and of Notaries Public, and all
 seals which any person is authorised to use by 11[the
 Constitution or an Act of Parliament of the United
 Kingdom or an] Act or Regulation having the force of
 law in 12[India]; (7) The accession to office, names, titles, functions
 and signatures of the persons filling for the time being
 any public office in any 13[State], if the fact of their 347 appointment to such office is notified in 14[any
 official Gazette]; (8) The existence, title, and national flag of every
 State or Sovereign recognized by 15[the Government
 of India]: In all these cases, and also on all matters of public
 history, literature, science or art, the Court may resort
 for its aid to appropriate books or documents of
 reference.If the Court is called upon by any person to
 take judicial notice of any fact, it may refuse to do so
 unless and until such person produces any such book
 or document as it may consider necessary to enable it
 to do so."` 16. Section 81 of the Evidence Act, 1872, inter alia, says that the

 Court shall presume the genuineness of any official gazette, or

 the government gazette and of every document purporting to be

 a document directed by any law. Said Section 81 of the

 Evidence Act, 1872 reads as follows: 17.In AIR 1931 PC 212 (Devasthanam Madura. v. Ali Khan Sahib)

 on its page 215, the Privy Council extracted the facts from

 Madura Gazetteer in respect of Tirupparankundram temple and

 also held that though there is a general presumption that waste

 land are the property of the crown, but it is not applicable

 where alleged waste is, at all found, physically within a temple.

 Relevant extracts from pages 214 to 216 of the said judgment

 read as follows: Besides this there are other inscriptions engraved on stones.

They are related to 12th century A.D. The clinching evidence of

epigraphical record prepared by Rakesh Tewari OPW-14 contains

a list of 265 artifacts. After seeing the list it transpires that remains

of old Hindu temple were used in construction of mosque. Sri

Rakesh Tewari was cross examined. There is not even an iota of

evidence to suggest that he had not collected the remains of the

disputed structure and prepared inventory containing 265 artifacts.

Consequently on the basis of epigraphical evidence it transpires

that ornamental pictures, images, parts of the old temple and other

religious articles used in the temple were found from the debris of

the demolished structure. In view of the inscription referred to 357 above it is established that there was temple prior to the

 construction of Babri Mosque. The beautiful verses in Sanskrit

 leave no room for doubt that the script was prepared in 11th and

 12th century A.D. It is covered in the old writings. It establishes the

 historical fact of existence of pre-Babri Masjid Hindu temple.

 There is nothing on record to contradict the same.

Annexure-IV
Gazetteers
Page 34 to 128

 At the cost of repetition I may refer that Carnegy at volume

 20 in O.O.S.5-49 in the year 1870 mentioned that after demolition

 of Janam Sthan Temple Babri Mosque was constructed in the year

 1528. Thereafter Millet, H.R.Nevil. E.B.Joshi in gazetteers at Ext.

 O.O. S.5-7 , 5-8 , 5-9 ,5-11 & 5-13 acknowledged the view taken by

 Carnegy and took a view that after the demolition of the temple at

 Janam Asthan, Babri Mosque was constructed. Alexandar

 Connigham in O.O. S.5-6 has also mentioned that very heart of the

 city stand Janam Asthan or birth place temple of Ram. The

 Encyclopedia of India of Eastern and Southern Asia by Surgeon

 General Edward Balfour (1885) at page 56 also refers about the

Annexure-IV
Ayodhya by Hans Bakker
Pages 14 to 33

 moque. Lastly Hans Bakker in the celebrity book of Ayodhya at

 page 46 took view that the original location of Janam Asthan is 358 comparatively certain since it seems to be attested by the location

of the mosque built by Babur, in the building of which materials of

a previous Hindu temple were used and are still visible. The

mosque is built by general consciousness to occupy the site of the

Janam Asthan. In this context it may be clarified that gazetteers are

official documents and the Hon'ble Apex Court has relied upon

them. They are admissible u/ss.35, 45 and 81 of the Indian

Evidence Act . The statement contained in the gazetteers can be

taken into account to discover the historical matter contained

therein and the facts stated there is evidence u/s 45 and the Court

may in continuation with another evidence and circumstance take

into consideration the material referred in the gazetteer vide AIR

1995 SC 167 Bala Shanker Bhattjjee & Others Versus Charity

Commissioner, Gujrat State. I have already referred the submissions of other Advocates

who claim that alleged inscription is false, fabricated and forged

and it should not be relied upon. In this context I would like to

refer Baburnama by A.S.Beweridge who has dealt this inscription

at appendix U at page 27. He has obtained the inscription from

Deputy Commissioner, Faizabad. The inscription inside the

mosque reveals that "By the command of the Emperor Babur, Mir

Baqi built this alighting-place of angels". After considering the

entire inscription Beweridge took the view and concluded that

"inscription is incomplete"