The PSI of Pulakeshi Nagara Police Station,

Bengaluru, has filed charge-sheet against the accused

person for the offence punishable under Section 9 of 3 Spl.C.No.513/2015 Karnataka Protection of Interest of Depositors in

Financial Establishments Act, 2004 (hereinafter referred

for short as ' KPIDFE Act ') and under Sec.420 of IPC. 2. The criminal law was set into motion on the

basis of the written complaint filed by PW.1 Uma Shankar

before the Jurisdictional Police on 15.05.2014, wherein

he has stated that he knew accused Thangappan for

many days and as he had returned back from UAE, he

had intended to set up his own business. At that time,

the accused Thangappan had requested him to invest in

his Medical Pharmacy business as he was already

running a Medical Shop by that time. He had also

induced the complainant to part with a sum of Rs.20.00

lakhs for the said business under the pretext that he

would obtain high returns. By believing his version, the

complainant Sri Uma Shankar had made an investment

of Rs.20.00 lakhs with the accused person and in

pursuance of the same the accused had issued him two

cheques of Rs.10.00 lakhs each drawn on Canara Bank.

It was also mutually agreed between the parties that on 4 Spl.C.No.513/2015 establishment of a new Medical Shop, the profits would

be shared between them and in the event of incurring any

loss the accused had assured him to make good of the

losses and further he had executed On Demand

Promissory Note and also the Loan Agreement in this

regard. Subsequently, the complainant did not get his

share/ returns as promised by the accused person and

hence he had intended to present the cheque and went in

search of accused person. To his shock and surprise, he

found that the accused had already sold his earlier

medical shop i.e., Medinova Medicals at Hutchins Road,

Cooke Town, Bengaluru. It is further narrated in the

complaint that the cheques which were issued by the

accused came to be dishonoured for insufficient funds

and he had made sufficient efforts to trace the

whereabouts of accused person and finally he came to

know that the accused was residing at Chennai. Apart

from that it is also narrated in the complaint that the

accused had allured various people i.e., Mr. S.C.Prakash,

Mr. Babu, Slavorson, Veronica Leena, Vijayalakshmi, 5 Spl.C.No.513/2015 Elizabeh D'souza, RSM Pharma and Distributors, and Mr.

K.Reddy and others for a hefty sum of amount, which

they had invested believing his words. As such, the

written information came to be filed and also along with

the complaint, he had handed over the Agreement which

was executed by accused to run the medical shop. 3. Based on the complaint, FIR came to be

registered against accused person and Investigating

Agency had commenced the recording of statements and

collected necessary materials. During the course of

investigation, the statement of the witnesses came to be

recorded and also it was noticed that the accused had

made several persons to invest with him under the

pretext of making an investment in pharmacy industry

and also he had borrowed about Rs.7.50 lakhs towards

furnishing of the medical shop and another hand loan of

Rs.5.00 lakhs from PW4 Prakash, who was running a

hardware store business and also he had collected a sum

of Rs.5.00 lakhs from PW.2 to Elizabeth D'souza and

some amount from PW3 Venkatesh Babu and also from 6 Spl.C.No.513/2015 PW5-N Natarajan. On collecting all the necessary

materials and the available records, the Investigating

Officer had come to the conclusion that the ingredients of

the provisions of Section 9 of KPIDFE Act was attracted

and also as the accused had induced the witnesses to

believe his version and part with their valuable property

that is in the manner of cash and had committed an

offence punishable under section 420 of IPC. Since the

accused could not be traced, an absconding charge sheet

came to be filed against him. The order sheet reflects that

subsequently, after the filing of the charge sheet, the

accused was arrested and was produced before the court

on 24.6.2018. It is pertinent to note that, charge sheet

was filed on 4.11.2015 and after lapse of about three

years; the accused was arrested and produced before this

court. 4. On appearance of the accused he had filed

bail application and subsequently he was admitted to bail

by imposing certain conditions. It is relevant to note at

this juncture that the accused had pleaded not guilty and 7 Spl.C.No.513/2015 claimed to be tried and as such, necessary charges

against him came to be framed. As such, the prosecution

has examined total six witnesses as PW.1 to 6 and Ex.P1

to 13 were marked on their behalf. 5. On completion of the prosecution evidence,

the statement of the accused came to be recorded under Section 313 of Cr.P.C, wherein the accused had denied all

the incriminating materials put against him. At the time

of recording his statement, the accused has submitted

that he was solely running Medical Stores from 1995 and

later on, as per the request of PW1 Uma Shankar, he had

opened another medical shop at OMBR Layout by

investing huge amount. Since they had incurred loss, he

had closed down the shop and he had repaid the loan

which he had obtained from Sri Uma Shankar. The

accused had preferred to lead the defence evidence and

got him examined as DW1 and in fact, during the course

of his cross examination itself documents at Ex.D1 and

D2 were marked. The accused was subjected to cross

examination by the learned Special Public Prosecutor. 8 Spl.C.No.513/2015 6. Heard the learned Special Public prosecutor

in the above case, and it has been vehemently argued by

her that the ingredients of Section 9 of KPIFE Act is

squarely applicable to the case on hand. It has been

argued by the learned Special Public Prosecutor that,

though it indicates that an individual person had made

the complainant and other persons to part with their

amount under the pretext of running a pharmacy

business, the Court is required to consider the entire

averments made in the complaint to ascertain whether

the provisions of KPIDFE Act is attracted. In order to

substantiate her submission, the learned Special Public

Prosecutor has pointed out that the definition of

Financial Establishment, as defined under section 2(4) (Financial Establishments) would clearly indicate that the

'Financial Establishment' includes a person or group of

individuals accepting deposit under any scheme or

arrangement. It is her submission that the word 'scheme'

or 'arrangement' cannot be considered in a restrictive

manner and has to be considered by giving wide 9 Spl.C.No.513/2015 connotation to the said words and by considering total

facts and circumstances of the case, it is clear that the

accused had induced the complainant and other persons

to part with huge extent of amount on the pretext of

investing in a pharmacy business. 7. In order to point out the same, she has taken

this Court to the entire depositions and also the evidence

which were recorded by this Court. By pointing out the

same, she has argued that the complainant had

specifically deposed in his evidence that he had lent a

huge amount of Rs.20.00 lakhs towards pharmacy

business. Further, she has also pointed out that the

document which was material on their behalf i.e., Ex.P2

Loan Agreement and also the Promissory Note enclosed

along with the Loan Agreement and the Receipt at Ex.P3

only fortify their contention wherein, it indicates that the

accused had agreed to return back the amount with a

specific fixed interest, bonus or profit. The terminology

used in the Loan Agreement, coupled with the evidence

recorded before this Court would fortify the case of 10 Spl.C.No.513/2015 prosecution. That part, she has also argued that the

provisions of section 420 of IPC were clearly proved by

prosecution since all the witnesses have deposed before

the Court in unequivocally of parting with huge extent of

money on the inducement by the accused person. 8. In order to substantiate the same, she has

pointed out to the evidence of PW2-Elizabeth D'souza,

PW3-Venkatesh Babu, PW5-N Nataraj and also evidence

of PW4-Prakash, which would indicate that he was

running a hardware shop and supplied materials worth

Rs.7.50 lakhs to the accused person and the fact of

furnishing the same was forthcoming in the bills which

were produced at Ex.P.11. Though the bills were attested

copies, it is her submission that the original bills were

issued in favour of accused person and since the bills

which were maintained during the ordinary course of

business were being produced before the court, the case

of the prosecution was proved. 9. Lastly, she has also pointed out to the

defence evidence, which was led before the court where in 11 Spl.C.No.513/2015 the contentions which were urged by the accused and his

defence were all shattered during the course of his cross

examination. In fact, she has pointed out that the specific

defence of the accused was misusing of the signed blank

cheques by complainant-PW1 Uma Shankar and it was

also stated that the signed blank cheques issued in

favour of Elizabeth D'souza, PW-4 Prakash PW5-N

Natarajan. However, during the course of cross

examination, the truth was elucidated, which would

indicate that he had intentionally issued the cheques in

favour of the witnesses which were subsequently

transferred. Under the circumstances, she has argued at

length that the motive and intention of the accused was

established beyond reasonable doubt. 10. Lastly, the statement of the accused recorded

under Section 313 of Cr.P.C., would also fortify the case

of the prosecution wherein he has admitted the parting of

amount by the complainant and also he had admitted of

returning the same. By pointing out the said aspects, she 12 Spl.C.No.513/2015 has requested the Court to convict the accused person for

the aforesaid offences. 11. Per contra, the learned Counsel appearing for

the accused has vehemently argued that the prosecution

has utterly failed to prove the case. It is the submission of

the learned counsel for the accused that when a specific

allegation is leveled against the accused person, it

requires to be proved beyond reasonable doubt. The

burden of proof will never be shifted upon the accused

person to prove his innocence and rather, it would be

always with the prosecution to establish that he had

committed the offence. It is also been argued that the

provisions of KPIDFE Act , could not be attracted in the

above case since it was pertaining to a private crime as

alleged in the complaint. By looking into the bare

provisions of KPIDFE Act itself, it would indicate that the

prosecution has to establish that there should be a

Financial Establishment, which unfortunately has not

been proved or established in the above case. That apart,

mere parting of an amount without prejudice to the rights 13 Spl.C.No.513/2015 of the accused person would indicate that no such

scheme or investment or arrangement was made by the

accused person or by any Financial Establishment.

Further, the words which are used in Section 2(4) would

indicate that the 'Financial Establishment' would mean

'any person or number of individuals accepting deposit

under any scheme or arrangement'. However, in the

instant case, the complainant himself has specifically

narrated that he had intended to do business with the

accused person and also he had asked a huge sum of

money. However, his evidence would only indicate that

the same was not disclosed in his income tax returns nor

the complainant being an educated person had not

transferred such a huge amount through cheque or

through RTGS and in fact, the fact of transferring an

amount by way of cash itself would raise a cloud of doubt

over the transaction. 12. Lastly, it is argued that the complainant had

admitted during the course of his cross examination

regarding entering into an Agreement, which was more 14 Spl.C.No.513/2015 fully produced and marked as Ex.D1 by way of

confrontation. If the said document is produced, it would

indicate that the transaction which was allegedly entered

between the parties was purely a commercial transaction

of running a Medical Shop through a Partnership Firm,

wherein the name of another person was also

forthcoming. It is further submitted that no material has

been produced in order to indicate that the accused had

borrowed huge amount from PW.2 Elizabeth D'souza,

PW3 Venkatesh Babu and PW5 N. Natarajan. It is also

been argued at length that the documents produced by

PW.4 Prakash at Ex.P1 would not indicate any over act

against the accused person and hence he has submitted

that the allegation leveled by the prosecution was not

proved in accordance with law. By pointing out the said

infirmities, the learned counsel for the accused has

requested to acquit the accused person. 13. Heard the arguments of both parties and the
materials on record. 14. The points that would arise for my
consideration are: 15. My answer to the above points are as under; Point No.1 : In the Affirmative
 Point No.2 : In the Affirmative
 Point No.3 : In the Affirmative
 Point No.4 : As per Final Order,
 for the following; REASONS 16. POINT Nos.1 TO 3: Before adumbrating to

the facts of the case, the evidence which is led before the

Court requires to be recapitulated for the purpose of

convenience. 17. PW.1-Uma Shankar, who is the complainant,

has deposed that he had returned back from Dubai UAE

after working there for a period of 20 years and he was

looking for a business to invest. At that point of time, he 17 Spl.C.No.513/2015 had come in contact with the accused who had assured

him to make an investment in medical pharmacy

business and allured him to invest Rs.20.00 lakhs under

the pretext of paying a huge returns. Further, the

accused had agreed to pay the profit from the business

and had issued three cheques and subsequently, he

came to know that the medical shop which accused was

running earlier was also sold without his knowledge and

later on, the cheques issued by the accused also came to

be returned for insufficient funds. Accordingly, he had

lodged the complaint as per Ex.P.1. He has stated that

he came to know that accused had also cheated and

defrauded other persons by name S.C.Prakash,

Slavarasan, Veronica Leena, Babu and others. He had

also produced the Loan Agreement as per Ex.P.2, receipt

as per Ex.P.3, cheque as per Ex.P.5 and 6. During the

course of cross-examination, he has deposed that he

came to know the accused through a common friend and

the accused had requested him to invest in his medical

business and he had paid a sum of Rs.20.00 lakhs. It is 18 Spl.C.No.513/2015 his evidence that he was the partner of the medical

business and accused had executed Promissory note. It

was also suggested to him that no documentation was

prepared for being a partner of Madonna Pharma.

Subsequently, the witness was once again recalled and

was subjected to cross-examination. It was specifically

suggested to him that since the pharmacy business was

getting good profits, he had intended to join the accused

person, for which, the witness has deposed that, at the

behest of accused, he had joined him. It is also been

admitted by him that for the purpose of license before

the Drugs Controller Department, they had entered the

name of one more member i.e., Mr. Ganesh. At the time

of cross-examination, he was confronted with the licence,

which was issued by the Drugs Controller Department

and was marked as Ex.D.1 and Partnership Deed was

marked as Ex.D.2. However, it was suggested to him that

he had invested only Rs.40,000/- to the business, which

was denied by him. He has admitted the suggestion that

as per the Agreement at Ex.D.2, a recital was made with 19 Spl.C.No.513/2015 respect to sharing of profit or loss being divided equally

between the parties. Apart from that, nothing has been

elicited from him. 18. PW.2-Elizabeth D'souza has deposed that,

she knew the accused person from a long period of time

and in the month of October, 2014, he had requested her

for hand loan of Rs.5.00 lakhs and had assured to repay

Rs.2.00 lakhs within 20 days and remaining Rs.3.00

lakhs within 3 months. Since she knew him for more

than 25 years and since accused had also assured of

paying excess amount at the time of repaying the

amount, she has paid Rs.5.00 lakhs by borrowing the

amount from Teachers' Association. However, in the

month of December, 2014, when she went near the

Medical Shop she came to know that the accused had

sold the medical shop to one Aasif and had cheated her

and other persons. She has identified the true copies of

the cheques which were issued to her by the accused as

per Ex.P.9 and P.10. She was not subjected to cross-

examination. 19. PW.3 Venkatesh Babu, has deposed that the

accused had requested him to make investment in

pharmacy business by assuring him to pay profit of

Rs.5,000/- per month on the deposit of Rs.5.00 lakhs.

By believing his version, he had deposited the said

amount and towards the same, the accused had issued

the cheque as security. It is his evidence that the

accused had paid Rs.1,000/- for a period of one year and

later on, when he requested him to increase his profit, he

had refused and accordingly, he had requested him to

return back his deposit for which, the accused had not

abided. Later on, he came to know that the accused had

closed his medical shop and was absconding.

Accordingly, he has given his statement. During the

course of his cross-examination, he has deposed that

there was no material to indicate investing Rs.5.00 lakhs

with the accused person. However, by believing his

verbal assurances, he had made the deposit. It is his

evidence that he had given the cheque which were issued

by the accused before the concerned Police. 21 Spl.C.No.513/2015 20. PW.4-Prakash, has deposed that he was

doing Glass and Plywood business at Hennur Main

Road, Bengaluru and on the request of the accused, he

had supplied the material, furniture, glass and fittings

worth Rs.7.50 lakhs and also the accused had obtained

hand loan of Rs.5.00 lakhs from him and as a security to

the same, he had issued cheques. Further, the accused

had cheated him to an extent of Rs.12.50 lakhs by not

repaying the entire amount. 21. During the course of cross-examination, he

has feigned his ignorance about the date of his supply of

materials to him and also his substantial evidence

indicates that he had deposed of supplying the materials

on credit basis to the accused person on his assurances.

He has admitted that he had not indicated of lending

amount in his I.T. Returns. It is his evidence that

cheques issued by the accused were dishonoured for the

reason of insufficient funds. He has further denied the

suggestion that he knew the accused for a long time and

also with respect to original bills he had clarified that it 22 Spl.C.No.513/2015 was issued to the accused person and only a copy of the

original bill was produced before the Court. 22. PW.5-N. Natarajan has deposed that he came

to know about the accused person through Mr.Ganesh,

who had requested him to invest some amount in his

new medical shop on the promises of providing higher

returns. It is his evidence that initially he had invested

Rs.3.00 lakhs as sought by the accused in the month of

May, 2014 wherein the accused had assured that he

would repay the amount by December, 2014. However,

the accused had not returned back the amount and he

came to know that a complaint was lodged against the

accused person. The witness has identified the cheque

issued by the accused for a sum of Rs.3.00 lakhs at

Ex.P.12. 23. During the course of cross-examination the

witness has deposed that he came in contact with

accused through one Ganapathi as he was visiting his

hotel. He has specifically deposed that the accused had

opened a new Medical shop at huge premises similar to 23 Spl.C.No.513/2015 that of a Super Market. He has specifically deposed that

accused had borrowed money from him by stating that

he was required to clear the bill of his workers. Apart

from that, nothing much has been elucidated from him. 24. PW.6 Narayanaswamy G. - Investigating

Officer, has deposed of receiving the complaint on

15.05.2015 as per Ex.P.1 and on the basis of the same

he had registered FIR as per Ex.P.13. Further, he has

deposed of recording the statement of witnesses and also

collecting the materials i.e., cheques, bills and other

documents. Since the allegations leveled against the

accused were proved, he had filed the charge sheet

against him. During the course of cross-examination,

apart from denial, nothing much was elucidated from

him. 25. On completion of the prosecution witnesses,

the accused had got himself examined as DW.1 and has

deposed that in the month of May, 2014, he was

approached by complainant Sri. Uma Shankar with

respect to opening a new Medical Shop which was 24 Spl.C.No.513/2015 agreeable to him and as such, they had started a Medical

Shop which they had run about 6 months. Since it was

not profitable, they had agreed to close the medical shop

and accused used to keep his signed blank cheques in

his new Outlet itself for the purpose of developing the

business and also to hand over the same to the

distributors. After 6 months they had decided to part

ways by closing their business and at that time he had

given the share which was belonging to PW.1 Uma

Shankar. It is his evidence that later on, he came to

know that the complainant had mis-used his cheques

and has handed over the same to other witnesses who

used to visit his shop. 26. During the course of his cross-examination

he has admitted that in order to run a Pharmacy

business, it was required to have a Diploma or Bachelors

Degree in Pharmacy and they were required to be

present at the shop at all point of time. It has also been

admitted that he was having 18 years of experience in

running a Medical Shop and he has been running a 25 Spl.C.No.513/2015 Pharmacy shop with PW.1. He has also admitted that as

per law, the presence of Pharmacist with proper degree

was mandatory and also he used to converse with the

medical representatives who used to visit his shop to

promote their products and also he used to purchase the

products from the Distributors if satisfied. Further, he

has admitted that he used to fill up the contents of the

cheque which were to be issued to the distributors. He

has also admitted that he had intended to furnish the

medical shop in an attractive manner and he was

responsible for its furnishing. However, he had denied

the suggestion of obtaining materials from PW.4 Prakash

to an extent of Rs.7.50 lakhs. But when a specific

question was put by the learned Special Public

Prosecutor, that from whom he had purchased the

materials for furnishing the medical shop, he has

deposed of handing over its furnishing to an architect

whose name he has forgotten. He has also admitted that

PW.1 Uma Shankar was his customer and also PW.5

N.Natarajan was his customer and since he had intended 26 Spl.C.No.513/2015 to make investment in his Madonna Medical Store, he

had requested the help of PW.1 Umashankar. Further he

has categorically admitted that he was having financial

constraints to make new investment for his existing

Madonna Medical Stores. Apart from that, nothing much

has been elucidated from him. However, the witness has

deposed that he is not in the habit of signing on the

blank stamp papers or blank cheques. Analysis and Appreciation of Evidence: 27. In the instant case, the prosecution has

contended that the accused had induced the

complainant and other persons to make an investment

with him and in furtherance of the same, he had assured

them to pay a huge profit/ income or dividend towards

the said amount which he had collected. Under the

circumstances, firstly, it will be appropriate to examine

whether the provision of the KPIDFE Act would be

attracted. 28. In order to better appreciate the same, the

definition of 'deposit' which has been made under 27 Spl.C.No.513/2015 Section 2 of the Act, is required to be considered. As per Section 2 of the KPIDFE Act, the term "deposit" has been

defined as under; (2) "Deposit" includes and shall be deemed
 always to have included any receipt of money
 or acceptance of any valuable commodity by
 any Financial Establishment to be returned
 after a specified period or otherwise, either in
 cash or in kind or in the form of a specified
 service with or without any benefit in the form
 of interest, bonus, profit or in any other form,
 but does not include,- (i) amount raised by way of share capital or by
 way of debenture, bond or any other
 instrument covered under the guidelines given
 and regulations made, by the Security Board of
 India, established under the Securities and
 Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 ; (ii) amounts contributed as capital by partners
 of a firm; (iii) amounts received from a scheduled bank
 or a co-operative bank or any other banking
 company as defined in clause (c) of section 5 of
 the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (Central Act
 15 of 1992) ; (iv) any amount received from,- (a) the Industrial Development Bank of India, 28 Spl.C.No.513/2015 (b) a State Financial Corporation, (c) any financial institution specified in or
under section 4A of the Companies Act,
1956(Central Act 1 of 1956) or (d) any other institution that may be
specified by the Government in this behalf; (v) amounts received in the ordinary course
of business by way of,- (a) security deposit, (b) dealership deposit, (c) earnest money, (d) advanced against order for goods or
services; (vi) any amount received from an individual
or a firm or an association of individuals,
registered under any enactment relating to
money lending which is for the time being
in force in the State: and (vii) any amount received by way of
subscriptions in respect of a Chit. Explanation I. - "Chit" has the meaning as
assigned to it in clause (b) of section 2 of
the Chit Funds Act, 1982 (Central Act 40 of
1982); Explanation II. - Any credit given by a seller
to a buyer on the sale of any property
(whether movable or immovable) shall not
be deemed to be deposit for the purposes of
this clause; (4) "Financial Establishment" means any
 person or a group of individuals
 accepting deposit under any scheme or
 arrangement or in any other manner
 but does not include a corporation or a
 co-operative society owned or controlled
 by any State Government or the Central
 Government or a banking company as
 defined under clause (c) of section 5 of
 the Banking Regulation Act, 1949
 (Central Act X of 1949); 29. As per the words which have been used, the

'word' deposit includes and shall even otherwise to have

included any receipt of money or expenses of a valuable

commodity. In the above case, the term 'Financial

Establishment' has also been defined as any person or

group of individuals accepting deposit under any scheme

or arrangement. By conjointly reading the word deposit

and also the Financial Establishment, it would indicate

that, if an amount has been received by any person or a

group of individuals under any scheme or under an 30 Spl.C.No.513/2015 arrangement, the same would amount to accepting of

deposit. That apart, the terminology used in the

aforesaid Section with respect to Financial

Establishment also indicates that, if a deposit has been

received by a person under any scheme or under any

arrangement, the same would attract the rigors of KPIDFE Act . 30. At the first instance, the allegation which has

been leveled by the Complainant in his complaint at

Ex.P.1 is to be carefully appreciated. The complainant

has contended that earlier to making such an

investment, he was working at UAE and returned back

to India and was in search of making an investment in

the business. It is also been noticed from the averments

of the complaint that he knew the accused person and at

that point of time, the accused had suggested him to

make necessary investment in Pharma business. The

word 'investment' at this juncture assumes much

relevance. That apart, it is also noticed from the tenor of

the complaint that the accused had assured him of 31 Spl.C.No.513/2015 providing profits. Once again, at the cost of repetition, if

the words used in Sec.2 of KPIDFE Act are revisited, it

would indicate that an investment made in any Financial

Establishment (Financial Establishment includes a

person or group of persons accepting deposit under any

scheme or under any arrangement) either in cash or in

kind for a specific service with or without benefit in the

form of interest, bonus, profit or any other form. This

would clearly indicate that the accused had allured the

complainant to make investment in the Pharma business

with him and had also assured him to give good returns/

profit to him. Further, in the complaint itself, it has been

narrated that the complainant had given Rs.20.00 lakhs

to the accused and as security towards the same, he had

issued two cheques drawn on Canara Bank. The Learned

Special Public Prosecutor, by pointing out the same has

argued at length that the provisions of Sec.9 of the

KPIDFE Act would be attracted. 31. However, it is the specific submission made

by the Learned Counsel for the accused that there are no 32 Spl.C.No.513/2015 ingredient to attract the provisions of Sec.9 of KPIDFE

Act, since the investment which was allegedly made by

the complainant was towards an individual Partnership

Firm which could not be construed as a 'deposit' under

the Act. For the sake of convenience, once again, the

provision of Sec.2 is required to be appreciated, wherein,

it has been specifically held that, any amount received in

the ordinary course of business by way of: which came to be transferred as per Ex.P.6 memo.

During the course of cross-examination of the

complainant, it was elucidated from him that he knew

the accused for the last 15 years and he has specifically

deposed that on the request of the accused he had made

payment to invest in the medical Pharma business. It

was also suggested to him that in the year 2014 itself, he 34 Spl.C.No.513/2015 had entered into an Agreement with the accused to do a

Medical Pharma business, which was denied by the

witness. Subsequently, the witness was recalled and it

was elucidated from him that the accused along with the

complainant and one Mr.Ganesh applied for licence with

the competent authority of Drugs Control Department to

obtain the licence which on admission of complainant

was marked as Ex.D1 and also the Partnership Deed was

marked as Ex.D2. By pointing out the same the learned

counsel for the accused has vehemently argued that the

complainant had not explained about execution of the

Partnership Deed at all and infact, it was suppressed by

the complainant which was elucidated from him during

the course of his cross-examination. It is relevant to note

at this juncture that as per the contention of the

complainant, an investment was made by him to an

extent of Rs.20.00 lakhs and if the "Investment" is to be

accepted then obviously KPIDFE Act , would be attracted. 32. I have already carefully appreciated the

documents which were marked as Ex.D1 and D2, which 35 Spl.C.No.513/2015 were confronted to the complainant. Ex.D1 is the license

which was issued by the competent authority and it

indicates that the license was granted in favour of

Mr.Ganesh, Mr.Thangappan and Mr.Uma Shankar and

also in the accompanying document along with the

license it was specifically mentioned that they were the

Partners of Maddona Pharma. Ex.D.2 is the Partnership

Deed which would indicate that the aforesaid three

persons i.e., the complainant, the accused and

Mr.Ganesh had entered into a Partnership Deed on

28.02.2014. Whereas, as per the contention of the

complainant he had lent a sum of Rs.20.00 lakhs on

01.03.2014. Further the loan document which is marked

as Ex.P2 also indicate that the Loan Agreement was

made on 01.03.2014 i.e., on the next day of entering into

the Partnership Agreement. It is pertaining to note that

the Partnership Agreement indicate all investments being

made by the partners i.e., the first party who is none

other than the accused person, the second party who is

the complainant have both made investment of 36 Spl.C.No.513/2015 Rs.40,000/- each towards the Partnership Firm and a

sum of Rs.20,000/- has been invested by Mr.Ganesh.

The meticulous reading of Ex.D2 Partnership Deed with

that of the Loan Agreement at Ex.P2 would clarify the

factual position of the case. If only it is elucidated that

an investment was made as security deposit, dealership

deposit, earnest money or advanced against any goods or

services, the same would not have attracted the

provisions of KPIDFE Act . It is relevant to note at this

juncture that as per the case of the prosecution and also

that of the complainant, an investment was made for

running the Pharma Store, which came to be invested by

the complainant. Under the circumstances the provision

of Sec.2(5) which beholdsthatthe amount received in the

ordinary course of business is not applicable to the case

on hand. Whereas, the Loan Agreement came to be

executed on 01.03.2014 which would indicate that the

accused had agreed to return the loan amount along

with profit/ interest or bonus to him. In this regard the

Promissory Note, which is also enclosed along with the 37 Spl.C.No.513/2015 Loan Agreement, is required to be considered and on

appreciation of the same, it indicates that, an interest

amounting to Rs.30,000/- from April-2014 to

September-2014 was agreed to be paid in cash on or

before 3rd of every month. At this juncture, it is

appropriate to consider the contentions urged by the

Learned Counsel for the accused, wherein she had

argued at length that, Loan Agreement at Ex.P2 itself

clearly casts serious doubt. It is her submission that,

when huge amount is advanced, the same requires to be

compulsorily registered. Further on specific question

being raised by this court about the specific provision of

law which mandates for compulsory registration of the

document, the Learned Counsel for accused was unable

to make her submission and further has submitted that

in the normal parlance the transactions involving huge

amount would be registered. Be that as it may, with this

aspect, the other contentions urged by PW.2 are also

required to be considered, wherein she has deposed that

she has handed over a sum of Rs.5.00 lakhs to the 38 Spl.C.No.513/2015 accused person which he had assured to repay in part

i.e., Rs.2.00 lakhs within 3 months and remaining

Rs.3.00 lakhs in another 3 months along with a F.D.

interest. Once again, the evidence fortifies the case of the

prosecution of the accused receiving a huge amount of

money from complainant and other witnesses in the

above case was to induce them to make an investment in

his Pharma business. 33. During the course of evidence of accused

person who was examined as DW.1, he has specifically

deposed that the complainant had misused the signed

cheques belonging to him and had distributed to other

witnesses in the above case. Further, the accused was

confronted with the document i.e., cheques at Ex.P.9

and 10, for which, he had admitted his signature. That

apart, he has also identified his signature on Ex.P.2

Loan Agreement. All this would indicate that a

Partnership Agreement was entered between the parties

on 28.02.2014 between the accused, complainant and

Ganesh and if the prosecution, on the basis of the same 39 Spl.C.No.513/2015 had requested the Court to invoke the provisions of KPIDFE Act , the same would not have been proper.

However, an investment was being made by the

complainant on 1.3.2014 to an extent of Rs.20.00 lakhs

which is evidenced from the Loan Agreement at Ex.P.2,

would indicate that the accused has received amount.

The evidence of PW.2 Elizabeth, PW.3 Venkatesh Babu

and PW.4 Prakash also fortify the case of the prosecution

wherein the accused had received a huge amount from

them by assuring them to return with a hefty sum of

interest/ profit. At this juncture it is clarified that a

distinction is required to be drawn with respect to simple

loan agreement wherein the parties have agreed to pay

necessary interest and also the transaction which cannot

be termed as private contractual act amount to civil

remedies but a transaction which was based on some

scheme or things wherein the parties are requested to

make investment in lieu of certain agreed profit or

interest. In short it would be appropriately stated that a

very thin line separate the act of simple money lending 40 Spl.C.No.513/2015 activity from making investment under guise of obtaining

high dividend, profit or interest. From time immemorial,

allurement of general public under the pretext of

providing higher rate of dividend, interest or profit would

lead them to make necessary investment with various

schemes or things. Hence, such schemes or things

promoted to allure general public in normal parlance is

termed as 'Ponzi' Schemes. In simple terms such Ponzi

schemes is appropriately explained by Walsh James

(1999) in his How Ponzi schemes, pyramid frauds

work." Consumers' Research, June: 10-14, wherein it

is defined as

 "What's remarkable about Ponzi's legacy
 is that, no matter how many times
 investors lose money, new schemes keep
 coming forward. And greedy, naïve people
 of all sorts line up to throw good money
 after bad (Walsh, 1999:14). 34. True to the said words, new scheme of things

will be flouted by persons to allure the gullible general

public to make investments and based on such

assurances given; gullible general public would make 41 Spl.C.No.513/2015 investments in a fond hope of getting higher returns,

profit or incentives. Even in the above case,

PW1-Umashankar though had entered into an

partnership agreement with Accused had preferred to

make investment of Rs 20,00,000/- in the pharmacy

business of Accused and the document executed at Ex P

2 would only fortify the case of the prosecution. Further

the evidence of PW 3 would also indicate that he was

assured of Rs5,000/- as profit every month and later on

when he had demanded higher rate of profits, the

Accused had denied the same. All the aforesaid acts

would only indicate that the investment are the money

which was given by PW.1, PW.2, PW.3 and PW.5 in the

form of deposit and at the cost of repetition, it is hereby

clarified that even an individual person is empowered to

receive any amount. That apart, it is also noticed that

the said amount was not given in a ordinary course of

business. Even for the sake of arguments, if it is to be

accepted that the PW.1 Umashankar had made an

investment in the Medical Pharma business, the 42 Spl.C.No.513/2015 evidence of PW 2 Elizebeth D'souza would indicate that

she had paid the amount to accused persons, since she

knew him from many years for almost 25 years, which is

not at all disputed by the Accused person. Further the

evidence of PW.3 Venkatesh Babu, PW.5 N. Natarajan,

would be appropriate to consider that whether it would

be construed as a transaction that has been taken place

in a ordinary course of business. However, by looking

into the facts and circumstances of the case, it is noticed

that there was no privity of contract between PW.2

Elizabeth, PW.3 Venkatesh Babu and PW.5 Natarajan.

For the sake of arguments, if it is accepted that an

amount was received by accused from them, then, it

would indicate that the same would have been received

with an allurement of making an investment, the

provisions of Sec.2(4) and also the explanation Financial

Establishment would be attracted and as such, the

invocation of Sec.9 of the KPIDFE Act, is fit and

appropriate and accordingly, Point No.1 is answered in

the Affirmative. 35. In the instant case, as already discussed,

PW.1 had made investment in the Medical Pharma

business to an extent of Rs.20.00 lakhs. Though it has

been seriously argued and disputed that at no point of

time he had made such a huge investment, it is relevant

to note at this juncture that, admittedly a Partnership

Agreement was prevailing between the complainant and

accused person, which they had entered into on

28.2.2014. Admittedly, the Agreement was entered a day

prior to execution of Loan Agreement i.e., on 1.3.2014. 36. Though it is seriously disputed that Ex.P.2

was not drawn in accordance with law, no material has

been produced in order to substantiate the contention of

the accused person. The accused, during the course of

cross-examination, though denied that no such

agreement was entered, nothing much has been

elucidated from him to disbelieve the contentions urged

by the complainant. It is well settled principles of law

that, the burden of proving the case entirely rests upon

the prosecution. At the same time, the production of 44 Spl.C.No.513/2015 materials by the prosecution and the undisputed facts

also is required to be considered by the Court. The court

has taken into note of the evidence of PW.2 Elizabeth

D'souza who has deposed before the Court that she knew

the accused person for the last 25 years and on the

request of the 0accused person she had made an

investment of Rs.5.00 lakhs by borrowing the amount at

Teachers' Association. In order to substantiate her

contention, she had produced two cheques at Ex.P.9 and

P.10. It is vehemently canvassed by the Learned Counsel

for the accused that the impugned cheques were not

produced or recovered by the Investigating Officer at the

earlier stage, but it was produced before the Court

during the course of trial. At this juncture, it is relevant

to note that application came to be filed by the Ld. Spl.

Public Prosecutor U/ Sec.242(2) of Cr.P.C., requesting the

Court to take on record the additional documents. It is

also noticed from the evidence of the Investigating Officer

who was examined as PW.6 Narayanaswamy G, that he

had verified the original records and had handed over 45 Spl.C.No.513/2015 the same to the witnesses themselves with a request to

produce them at the later stage. The provisions of Sec.242 Cr.P.C., is very clear wherein the Magistrate

may, on the application of prosecution, issue summons

to any of the witnesses to attend or to produce any

document or other thing. In this regard, the court has

been relied on the judgment of the Hon'ble High Court

reported in (2018) 5 Karnt. LJ 622 ( B.L.Uday Kumar

and others Vs. State of Karnataka ) which reads as

under:- 13. Thus it is clear that sub-section (3) of
section 242 casts a mandatory duty on the
Magistrate to take all such evidence as may be
produced in support of the prosecution. The
word "produced" in sub-section (3) also cannot
be given a restrictive meaning to hold that only
the materials collected during investigation
could be permitted to be produced in evidence.
Such a construction would defeat the very
purpose of trial. If the main object of criminal 47 Spl.C.No.513/2015 trial is to discover truth, necessarily all and
every piece of evidence while could help the
court to arrive at a just decision should be
allowed to come on record. Therefore, it is
immaterial whether the "evidence" sought to be
produced during trial was either collected in
the course of investigation or subsequent
thereto. Section 91 Cr.P.C. no doubt empowers
the court or the officer in charge of the Police
Station to ensure the production of any
'document or other thing''necessary or
desirable' for the purpose of any investigation,
enquiry or other proceedings by issuing
summons or written order to the person in
whose possession or power such document or
thing is; but section 242(3) Cr.P.C. requires the
court to take all such evidence which the
prosecution desires to produce including the
documents which are not mentioned in sub-
section (5) of section 173 Cr.P.C. subject of
course furnishing to the accused a copy
thereof and providing him a reasonable
opportunity to meet the same. The only
safeguard or restriction that could be thought
of in view of the provisions of the Evidence Act is that such evidence must relate to the 48 Spl.C.No.513/2015 matters of fact in enquiry. In other words, as
 long as the proposed evidence, either oral or
 documentary, is relevant and in support of the
 prosecution case, the Magistrate cannot refuse
 to receive it." 37. As per the said dictum, when the document

is summoned from a witness to be produced before the

Court, the same can be received on record. Even

otherwise, the right of the accused was not prejudiced

with the production of said document since he had

ample opportunity to cross-examine the witnesses. In

the instant case, the PW.2 Elizabeth D'souza was not

subjected to cross-examination at all. The Learned

Counsel for the accused has submitted that PW.2 had

not appeared before the court for the purpose of cross-

examination at all even though the application for

recalling was allowed. The said submission is not proper

and on perusal of the deposition itself, it indicates that,

throughout the cross-examination of the witness, the

accused and his counsel, on one or the other reasons

had not cross-examined the witness and on each and 49 Spl.C.No.513/2015 every time necessary application came to be filed to

recall the witness for the purpose of cross examination.

With respect to the same it is noticed that in all the

instances, an application was filed to recall the witnesses

and subsequently, he had preferred to conduct cross-

examination. However, it is noticed that PW.2 was cross-

examined on 04.11.2022 and even on that day, the

Learned Counsel for the accused had not appeared

before the Court and later on, the cross-examination was

taken as NIL. Though it is submitted that the necessary

application to recall PW.2 came to be filed, the order

sheet indicates that, no such application were filed, in

fact, the application was filed by the Learned Counsel for

the accused on 17.12.2022 to recall PW.1 Umashankar

for the purpose of cross-examination, which was allowed

on payment of cost of Rs.3,000/-. Subsequently, the cost

was paid and cross-examination of PW.1 was conducted

and even on that day, they had sought for adjournment

and accordingly, once again, cross-examination of PW.1

deferred by imposing further cost of Rs.4,000/-. Hence, 50 Spl.C.No.513/2015 the order sheet would clearly indicate that the accused

had never filed necessary application to recall PW.2

Elizebeth D'souza for the purpose of cross-examination.

At this juncture the evidentiary value of the witness who

was not subjected to cross-examination is required to be

appreciated. That apart, from the evidence of PW.3

Venkatesh Babu, indicates that, he had also made an

investment of Rs.5.00 lakhs with the accused and the

accused had paid profit of Rs.5,000/- per month for a

period of One Year. Subsequently, he refused to make

payment, when PW.3 requested for more profit. By

considering all these facts, it is limpid that the positive

investments were made by the witnesses on the

allurement given by accused to make investment in his

medical Pharma business. Even otherwise, if the

contention of the Learned Counsel for the accused, that

PW.2 was not available for the purpose of cross-

examination is to be appreciated, the provision U/ Sec.33 of Indian Evidence Act, is required to be looked into. For 51 Spl.C.No.513/2015 the purpose of convenience, the provision U/Sec.33 is

culled out, which reads as follows; Sec.33 : Evidence given by a witness in a
 judicial proceeding, or before any person
 authorized by law to take it, is relevant for the
 purpose of proving, in a subsequent judicial
 proceeding, or in a later stage of the same
 judicial proceeding, the truth of the facts
 which it states, when the witness is dead, or
 cannot be found, or is incapable of giving
 evidence, or is kept out of the way by the
 adverse party, or if his presence cannot be
 obtained without an amount of delay or
 expense which under the circumstances of the
 case, the Court considers unreasonable: tion of the incident of putting threat to him by
 accused Nos.1 and 2 for the purpose of ob-
 taining sale deed, his evidence cannot be ac-
 cepted by applying Section 33 of the Indian
 Evidence Act. Section 33 reads as below: DELHI ADMINISTRATION supra, the Hon'ble
Supreme Court has held in paragraph No.20
as below: 26. No doubt Section 33 of the Evidence Act
states that if a witness is dead or cannot be
found or is incapable of giving evidence or is
kept out of the way by adverse party or his
presence cannot be obtained without an
amount of delay or expense, his evidence in a
judicial proceeding or before any person au-
thorized by law to take it, can be considered
relevant in a subsequent judicial proceeding
or at a later stage of the same judicial pro-
ceeding to prove the truth of the facts. But it is
to be stated that such kind of evidence is only 55 Spl.C.No.513/2015 relevant, not that it can be relied upon without
 looking for corroboration. According to Section
 158 of the Indian Evidence Act, all matters ei-
 ther to contradict or corroborate the state-
 ments under Section 32 or 33 may be proved
 in order to impeach or confirm the credit of the
 person who made such statement. The ex- pression, "for the purpose of proving the facts
 which it states" in Section 33 does not imply a
 meaning that absolute reliance can be placed
 on the previous evidence given by a witness
 whose presence cannot be secured at a later
 stage of the proceedings. In the aforesaid judgment the Hon'ble High court has

clearly held that in the event of non-appearance of the

witness would not considered as conclusive one but the

same will be considered as relevant based on the other

materials available. In the case on hand, as already

discussed, it is noticed that the witness had indeed

appeared before the court to tender her evidence and she

was not subjected to cross examination and event at

later stage, for reasons known to the Accused had not 56 Spl.C.No.513/2015 preferred to recall her. Under the circumstances, the

evidence tendered by PW-2 Elizebeth D'souza would

become relevant and has to be considered with the

evidence led by other witnesses. It is contended by the

prosecution that Accused had allured other witness also

and had obtained investment from them in his pharmacy

business and later on he had declined to return the

profit and the investments made by them. The evidence

of PW-2 also would fortify the case of prosecution and

since she was not subjected to cross examination the

evidentiary value of her evidence would be on higher

pedestal than that of the other witness or in short it can

be considered for the purpose of corroboration with other

witness. 39. When the said postulate is considered, once

again it indicates that no proper efforts were made by

accused to secure PW.2 and even otherwise, when PW.2

Elizabeth D'souza was very much present before the

Court, she was not subjected to cross-examination by

the accused person. Subsequently, only PW.1 Uma 57 Spl.C.No.513/2015 Shankar came to be recalled by the accused person,

which would indicate that the accused was not inclined

to cross-examine PW.2. 40. I have also bestowed my anxious attention to

the evidence lead by PW.3. It is vehemently argued by

the Learned Counsel for the accused that no proper

materials have been produced to indicate that he had

paid a sum of Rs.5.00 lakhs to the accused person,

which was by way of investment in the medical

pharmacy business. During the course of his chief-

examination, he has deposed that, a sum of Rs.5,000/-

was being paid every month by accused person for a

period of one year and later on, he had refused to pay

the amount along with profit. 41. During the course of cross-examination, he

has deposed that, he has lent the said amount through

cash and even the profit was being paid by accused by

way of cash. However, no proper materials have been

produced in this regard to substantiate his contention.

It is noticed from the evidence that a suggestion was 58 Spl.C.No.513/2015 made and an answer was elucidated from the witness

that he was not aware of the fact that accused was

required to make a payment of Rs.20.00 lakhs to the

complainant from the beginning. If the said aspect is

once again considered with the evidence rendered by

PW.1, the undisputed fact which would emerge is only to

fortify the contention of the prosecution rather than that

of the accused that he had obtained the investment from

PW-1 Umashankar to an extent of Rs20,00,000/-. It is

settled principle of law that a fact which has been alleged

by a witness if is against the tenor of the defence of the

accused, the same requires to be denied. Unless the

same is specifically and emphatically denied, the

contention from the evidence led before the Court

assumes the character of admission. Though the

provision of Sec.17 of Indian Evidence Act, clearly

indicates that a stray admission cannot be looked into,

until and even at the time of obtaining necessary

admission, necessary warning to the person deposing is

required to be given, it indicates that in the instant case, 59 Spl.C.No.513/2015 the witness was aware of the said suggestion being put

forth and also the entire tenor of his cross-examination

would justify the said aspect. That apart, I have also

appreciated the evidence of PW.5 N.Natarajan. PW.5 has

specifically deposed that he had invested Rs.3.00 lakhs

as sought by the accused. It is relevant to note at this

juncture, that the evidence which is tendered by all the

witnesses would clearly indicate that an investment was

being made and not an agreement was entered into

between the parties or the money which was lent was not

for a private business purpose. At the cost of repetition,

the provision of Sec.2 of KPIDFE Act, would clearly

indicate that, if any agreement is entered between the

parties which can be construed as a private contract

under the various provisions of the Act or if an

investment is made towards a chit transaction, the same

cannot be construed as coming within the rigors of KPIDFE Act . Further, all the witnesses who have

deposed before the Court have unequivocally deposed of

making an investment for a medical pharmacy business 60 Spl.C.No.513/2015 with the accused. It is also not in dispute that accused

was running a medical pharmacy business for the last

20 to 25 years, which is specifically admitted by him in

the cross-examination, as well as in his defense evidence

led before the Court as DW.1. In that event, if the

contention of the witnesses i.e., PW.5 N.Natarajan

coupled with the evidence of PW.3 Venkatesh Babu and

PW.1 Uma Shankar along with PW.2 Elizabeth D'souza is

taken into consideration, it would indicate that some

investment was solicited by the accused person towards

the Pharmacy Business and in that he had given several

assurances of profit or interest to be paid to the

witnesses. 42. The categorical and specific admission by

PW.3 Venkatesh Babu, that he used to receive

Rs.5,000/- per month for a period of one year as profit

from the accused would indicate the fact of attracting the

provision of Sec.2 of KPIDFE Act. The evidence of PW.5

N.Natarajan also indicates that he had made an

investment in the month of May, 2014 wherein, the 61 Spl.C.No.513/2015 accused had agreed to repay the same before December,

2014. He has specifically stated that, in the month of

December, 2014, he came to know that the accused has

closed down his shop. During the course of his cross-

examination, he has specifically deposed that he knew

accused person from the year 2010 and he was running

a Medical Shop at Lingarajapuram at Bengaluru.

Further, it has also been deposed during his cross-

examination that accused had opened a posh Medical

Shop at OMBR Layout, Bengaluru, which was like a

super market. The said aspect only fortifies the

contention of PW.1 that he had made an investment of

Rs.20.00 lakhs in the Pharmacy business of accused

person. For the sake of convenience, at this juncture

itself, the evidence of DW.1 is also required to be

appreciated, wherein; he has deposed that he indeed

opened a Medical Pharmacy business with PW.1 Uma

Shankar. However, it is his contention that he was not

the person who had requested the complainant to make

investment, but in fact, it was the complainant himself 62 Spl.C.No.513/2015 who had made a request. It will not make much

difference, as to whether the complainant had made the

request or the accused, unless it is established that the

amount of Rs.20,00,000/- was made towards the

Partnership Firm. If only the contention of accused is to

be accepted, he has produced an agreement i.e., Ex.D.2

Partnership Deed, which indicates that an initial

investment was made by the Partners i.e., the first party

and the second party for a sum of Rs.40,000/- each and

third party had made an investment of Rs.20,000/-. At

the cost of repetition, the accused and complainant were

named as first and second party respectively as per the

Partnership Deed. If for the purpose of convenience it is

to be accepted that a Partnership Deed was indeed

executed by the parties, then there was no necessity for

the accused to execute separate document with respect

to receiving a sum of Rs.20.00 lakhs from the

complainant as per Ex.P.2 and also issuing of a

Promissory Note along with the said document. The

witness has also identified his signature as Ex.P.2(b) on 63 Spl.C.No.513/2015 the Loan Agreement. It is relevant to note that a specific

defense has been taken up by the accused that he used

to keep signed blank cheques in his new medical shop so

as to issue the same to the Distributors. However, during

the course of cross-examination of accused by the

Learned Special Public Prosecutor, it has been elucidated

from him that the accused himself used to make

necessary negotiations with the Medical Representatives

who used to visit his Medical Shop to promote the

distribution of medicines of their companies and accused

himself would make necessary payment to them through

cheque. If the said submission is to be accepted, then,

the evidence which has been tendered in the chief-

examination amounts to farrago. In his chief-

examination, he has deposed of misusing the signed

cheques which he used to keep in the shop itself for

making necessary payment to the medical

representatives, however in his cross-examination, he

has admitted that he himself was issuing the cheque and

that apart, he has also identified his signature on the 64 Spl.C.No.513/2015 Loan Agreement and has categorically deposed that the

same was affixed by him for security which he had kept

in his shop. It is also deposed by the accused that he

does not know PW.2 Elizabeth D'souza, PW.3 Venkatesh

Babu, PW.4 Prakash and PW.5 N.Natarajan. However,

during the course of his cross-examination, he

hasadmitted of knowing PW.2 Elizabeth D'souza for

about more than 20 years and also Prakash as material

supplier. It is relevant to note at this juncture that,

accused had stumbled upon during the course of his

cross-examination with respect to borrowing the

materials from PW.4 Prakash who was the material

supplier, who had furnished necessary materials for

furnishing the medical shop. The accused has

specifically admitted during the cross-examination made

by Learned Special Public Prosecutor that he himself has

got the medical shop furnished, by which, he had

incurred huge expenditure and also it is his specific

contention that he had purchased materials through an

architect. However, when a specific question was put to 65 Spl.C.No.513/2015 him that who was the said architect entrusted with

furnishing of medical shop; once again, the accused was

unable to answer the said question and has feigned his

ignorance with respect to his name. All these aspects

when compared with the evidence of PW.1 Uma Shankar,

PW.2 Elizabeth D'souza, PW.3 Venkatesh Babu, PW.4

Prakash and PW.5 N.Natarajan would only led to

unequivocal inference that indeed a medical shop was

opened, wherein PW.1 Uma Shankar was the partner of

accused person and also it is undisputed fact that the

said pharmacy shop was opened in a posh manner

which was looking like a super market. Further,

PW.1 Uma Shankar was the partner by investing an

amount of Rs.40,000/-in the Partnership Firm and also

it is undisputed fact that subsequently, a cheque for

Rs.30,000/- was issued by the accused to PW.1 Uma

Shankar when the business had incurred loss. It is also

established that PW-1 Umashankar had invested a sum

of Rs20,00,000/- into the medical pharmacy business as

evidenced from the document at EX P2 which is in the 66 Spl.C.No.513/2015 form of agreement. All these aspects would only indicate

that the prosecution has proved their case beyond

reasonable doubt that an investment was being made by

aforesaid witnesses towards pharmacy business. At the

cost of repetition, the explanation which has been given

u/ Sec.2 of the KPIDFE Act, clearly indicates that if an

investment is being made towards any arrangement or

scheme by things, the same would attract the rigors of

the KPIDFE Act . In the case on hand, it is clear that the

investments were being made by all the witnesses

towards pharmacy Business wherein it was assured of

sharing the profit or paying dividend/ interest in various

forms. For instance, it was assured to PW.3 that he

would be receiving a sum of Rs.5,000/- every month

which is also been admitted by the witness that he has

received the said amount for a period of one year. All the

above said facts would only fortify the contention of the

prosecution rather than that of the accused herein.

Accordingly, the act of the accused person in receiving

the amount from the aforesaid witnesses amount to 67 Spl.C.No.513/2015 receiving of an investment from the witnesses with an

assurance to share a profit/ interest or dividend to them.

It is also not in dispute that the amount was not at all

returned back to the witnesses and accordingly, the

provisions of Sec.9 of the KPIDFE Act, would be attracted

and hence, the prosecution has proved their case beyond

reasonable doubt. 43. With respect to the allegations of Sec.420 of

IPC, the entire evidence which is led by before the court

is required to be recapitulated for the purpose of

ascertaining the existence of the materials. Sec.420 of

IPC consists of two parts, wherein, in the first part

speaks that if a person is cheated and dishonestly

induces the other person deceived to deliver any property

to any other person, which is capable of being converted

into a valuable security the rigors of Sec.420 of IPC

would be attracted. In the above case, the prosecution

has contended that the accused had made an allurement

and had induced the aforesaid witnesses to part with

their valuable property i.e., in the form of cash and when 68 Spl.C.No.513/2015 it was delivered to the accused person, he had

subsequently refused to return back to the witnesses the

same would attract the rigors of Sec.420 of IPC. The

court is not intentionally discussing about the entire

materials on hand once again, since in the earlier part of

the judgment the overt act pertaining to the accused

person and also the evidence tendered by the witness is

discussed in detail. However at this juncture an exercise

is being made to ascertain whether there are materials to

attract the provisions of section 420 of IPC. 44. The Learned Counsel for the accused has also

contended that the Loan Agreement at Ex.P.2 itself could

not be looked into by the court, for the reason that is not

executed on a high denomination stamp paper which is

not supported by any provisions of law. Even otherwise,

if the Accused contends that the alleged loan agreement

is executed on stamp paper wherein proper stamp duty

is not paid, the same should have been pointed out at

the time of leading the evidence and also at the time

when the document was sought to be marked. In the 69 Spl.C.No.513/2015 instant case, no objections were raised by the Advocate

for the accused at the time of marking of the said

document and when the said documents were admitted,

at the fag end of the trial, the aforesaid contention is

being raised, which is not permissible under the eye of

law. With respect to the manner in which the

inducement and allurement is made, it has been held by

the Hon'ble Apex Court that the prosecution should

prove the fact of dishonest intention on the part of the

accused person from inception and also it is required to

prove that he had entertained an act to induce the other

person to part with the property or the valuable thing

which is capable of being converted into a valuable

security. The basic ingredients to prove the provisions of section 420 of IPC has been laid down by the Hon'ble

Apex court in the judgment reported in (2005)9 SCC 15

(Devender Kumar Singla V Baldev Krishan Singla)

wherein it is held as: missions, it would be necessary to consider 70 Spl.C.No.513/2015 on the background of the factual position as to
whether offence punishable under Section
420 IPC is made out. Section 420 deals with
certain specified classes of cheating. It deals
with the cases whereby the deceived person
is dishonestly induced to deliver any property
to any person or to make, alter or destroy, the
whole or any part of a valuable security or
anything which is signed or sealed and which
is capable of being converted into a valuable
security. Section 415 defines "cheating". The
said provision requires : (i) deception of any
person, (ii) whereby fraudulently or dishon-
estly inducing that person to deliver any prop-
erty to any person or to consent that any per-
son shall retain any property, or (iii) intention-
ally inducing that person to do or omit to do
anything which he would not do or omit if he
were not so deceived, and which act or omis-
sion causes or is likely to cause damage or
harm to that person in body, mind, reputation
or property. Deception of any person is com-
mon to the second and third requirements of
the provision. The said requirements are alter-
native to each other and this is made signifi-
cantly clear by use of disjunctive conjunction 71 Spl.C.No.513/2015 "or". The definition of the offence of cheating
embraces some cases in which no transfer of
property is occasioned by the deception and
some in which such a transfer occurs. Decep-
tion is the quintessence of the offence. The es-
sential ingredients to attract Section 420 are : liver property or to make, alter or destroy any
valuable security or anything which is sealed
or signed or is capable of being converted into
a valuable security; and (iii) the mens rea of
the accused at the time of making the induce-
ment. The making of a false representation is
one of the ingredients for the offence of cheat-
ing under Section 420. (See Bashirbhai Mo-
hamedbhai v. State of Bombay [AIR 1960 SC
979 : 1960 Cri LJ 1383] .) 8. As was observed by this Court
in Shivanarayan Kabra v. State of
Madras [AIR 1967 SC 986 : 1967 Cri LJ 946]
it is not necessary that a false pretence
should be made in express words by the ac-
cused. It may be inferred from all the circum-
stances including the conduct of the accused
in obtaining the property. In the true nature of
things, it is not always possible to prove dis- 72 Spl.C.No.513/2015 honest intention by any direct evidence. It can
 be proved by a number of circumstances from
 which a reasonable inference can be drawn.

In the aforesaid case it has been held that the court may

draw necessary inference with respect to entertaining of

dishonest intention on part of the accused. It is the

settled principles of law that the accused should have

entertained dishonest intention right from the inception

of the case. However, in the instant case as noticed from

the records and evidence led, at the cost of repetition, it

is noticed that the Accused had induced PW-1

Umashankar to make an investment of Rs20,00,000/-

with him. Though it is specifically denied, the

circumstances in the above case would indicate that he

had invested in the pharmacy business of the accused.

Further it is relevant to note that the accused had also

induced other persons to make an investment in his

pharmacy business and had even noticed from the

evidence of PW-3 that he had made investment in the

pharmacy business and had also collected Rs5,000/- 73 Spl.C.No.513/2015 every month. The evidence only corroborates with the

allegations which is leveled by the prosecution. Further

with respect to investments and also allurement being

given by the financial institution, the Hon'ble Apex court

has held in the judgment rendered in (2008)8 SCC 708

( Kuriachan Chacko V State of Kerala) wherein it is

held as: ise of being paid interest at a rate higher than
the agreed rate of interest cannot, without
more, be a 'money circulation scheme' within
the meaning of Section 2(c) of the Act, howso-
ever high the promised rate of interest may be
in comparison with the agreed rate. What that
section requires is that such reciprocal prom-
ises, express or implied, must depend for their
performance on the happening of an event or
contingency relative or applicable to the enrol-
ment of members into the scheme. In other
words, there has to be a community of inter-
est in the happening of such event or contin-
gency." (emphasis supplied) 46. Mere reading of the section makes it clear
that it requires the following ingredients to be
satisfied: age or harm to that person in body, mind, rep-
utation or property." ( Vide Ram Jas [Ram Jas v. State of U.P. ,
(1970) 2 SCC 740 : 1970 SCC (Cri) 516] ; Hri-
daya Ranjan Prasad Verma v. State of Bi- har [(2000) 4 SCC 168 : 2000 SCC (Cri) 786] ,
SCC p. 176, para 13; S.W. Palanitkar v. State
of Bihar [(2000) 1 SCC 241 : 2000 SCC (Cri)
129].) 47. The trial court as well as the High Court
considered the facts of the case and held that
there is an element of cheating inasmuch as a
representation was made by the accused that
every unit-holder will get double the amount
invested by him; the representation was false,
the maker of the representation was aware
that the representation was not true and by
such representation, he deceived the victim to
believe the representation to be true and actu-
ated him to act on such representation. The
promoters induced common public to part with
money on the lure of doubling the amount. 76 Spl.C.No.513/2015 Prima facie, the courts were satisfied that but
 for such representation and the benefit sought
 to be given under the Scheme, the victims
 would not have acted on such representation.
 It was, therefore, a case of application of Sec-
 tion 415 IPC . Prima facie case had been made
 out in absence of better explanation by the ac-
 cused. If it is so, it could be said to be a case
 for application of Section 420 read with Sec-
 tion 34 IPC , of course, at this stage. 45. The Hon'ble Apex court was discussing the

above case with respect to allegation of money

circulation schemes and also on the question of validity

of Prize Chits scheme. In the said judgment it was held

by the Hon'ble Apex court that when a promise is being

made without an intention to act upon it or when it is

impossible to implement, the ingredients of section 420 of IPC would be attracted. In the said judgment , the

Hon'ble Apex court had held that entertaining of guilty

intention is required to be appreciated. When once again

the said dictum is applied to the facts of the case, it is

noticed at the cost of repetition that the accused who 77 Spl.C.No.513/2015 was in pharmacy business had induced PW-1

Umashankar to deliver a sum of Rs20,00,000/- in the

said business though it was running under a

partnership deed. If for the sake of arguments all the

contentions of the accused is to be appreciated, it

requires explanation that why the partnership deed

didn't indicate of the investments being made. For the

sake of clarification it is to be recalled that as per the

partnership deed which was produced by Accused

himself at EX D2 indicated that the complainant had

invested only Rs40,000/- in the said business. There is

no dispute to the fact that he business was run under a

partnership deed and also the accused admits that he

was in need of money as he was also running another

medical shop by name Madona Medicals. As such the

conduct of the accused could be ascertained from the

evidence led before the court by the complainant coupled

with the evidence of other witnesses. 46. Last but not the least; the court has

appreciated the legality of recording of statement 78 Spl.C.No.513/2015 u/ Sec.313 of Cr.P.C. It has been held in umpteen

number of judgments by the superior courts that

recording of statement under section 313 of Cr.P.C is not

bald formality, but in fact, it is a stage, wherein the

accused is provided with an opportunity to explain the

materials which are within his special knowledge. Even

for the sake of arguments, it is contended that the

material bills have been raised in the name of Madonna

Medicals, it is to be noted that the accused was required

to offer an explanation in this regard. That apart the

defense taken by the accused is also required to be

considered, wherein he has deposed that he doesn't

know any of the witness in the above case and it is

relevant to note that they were all in possession of the

cheques issued by the Accused person. The accused

during the course of his defence evidence has contended

that he used to keep signed blank cheques in his

medical shops for business purposes, which was

misused by complainant and had got it issued to other

witness. However, during the course of cross 79 Spl.C.No.513/2015 examination of Accused he had admitted that he knew

PW-2 Eliezebeth D'souza for the last 25 years and

though he has denied having any acquaintance with PW-

4 Prakash who was the material supplier, it is noticed

from the further cross examination that he had

categorically admitted that he had got the shop

furnished according to his knowledge. However to the

specific suggestion that he had purchased the materials

from PW-4 he had denied and has deposed of handing

over the furnishing work to an architect and later on

feigned his ignorance about the name of the architect

who was entrusted with the work. The infirmities in his

evidence would clearly indicate that he had entertained

an intention to cheat and also his evidence of keeping

signed blank cheques is falsified during the course of his

cross examination, wherein he has specifically admitted

that he was the one who was doing transaction with

medical representatives and also he was issuing

cheques. In that event, there was no necessity for him to

keep allegedly signed blank cheques in his shop. The 80 Spl.C.No.513/2015 factum of disclosures to be made during the course of

recording the statement under section 313 of Cr.P.C is

succinctly discussed by the Hon'ble Apex Court with

regard to the admissibility and relevancy of the

statement is rendered in (2023)5 SCC 522 ( Premchand

V State of Maharastra) wherein it is held as: liament amended Section 313 in 2009 and
 inserted sub-section (5), thereby enabling the
 court to take the assistance of the Public
 Prosecutor and defence counsel in preparing
 such questions [the first part of sub-section
 (5)]. Ideally, with such assistance (which has
 to be real and not sham to make the effort
 effective and meaningful), one would tend to
 believe that the courts probably are now bet-
 ter equipped to diligently prepare the relevant
 questions, lest there be any infirmity. How-
 ever, judicial experience has shown that
 more often than not, the time and effort be-
 hind such an exercise put in by the trial court
 does not achieve the desired result. This is 81 Spl.C.No.513/2015 because either the accused elects to come for-
ward with evasive denials or answers ques-
tions with stereotypes like "false", "I don't
know", "incorrect", etc. Many a time, this
does more harm than good to the cause of
the accused. 18. For instance, if facts within the spe-
cial knowledge of the accused are not satis-
factorily explained, that could be a factor
against the accused. Though such factor by
itself is not conclusive of guilt, it becomes rel-
evant while considering the totality of the cir-
cumstances. A proper explanation of one's
conduct or a version different from the prose-
cution version, without being obliged to face
cross-examination, could provide the neces-
sary hint or clue for the court to have a differ-
ent perspective and solve the problem before
it. The exercise under Section 313 instead of
being ritualistic ought to be realistic in the
sense that it should be the means for secur-
ing the ends of justice; instead of an aimless
effort, the means towards the end should be
purposeful. Indeed, it is optional for the ac-
cused to explain the circumstances put to him 82 Spl.C.No.513/2015 under Section 313, but the safeguard pro-
 vided by it and the valuable right that it envi-
 sions, if availed of or exercised, could prove
 decisive and have an effect on the final out-
 come, which would in effect promote utility of
 the exercise rather than its futility. 47. When the said judgment of the Apex Court is

applied to the case on hand and appreciated with the

statement of the accused recorded U/ Sec.313 of Cr.P.C.,

it indicates that a specific question was posed to him

that PW.4 has supplied the materials worth Rs.7.50

lakhs at question No.11, for which he had simple denied

the same. No doubt, the court cannot rely solely upon

the statement of the accused recorded U/ Sec.313 of

Cr.P.C. to arrive at a conclusion of the guilt of the

accused. However, at the same time, the Court can draw

an adverse inference if no explanation is offered and

non-explanation being given by the accused will add as a

circumstance against him. By looking into the only

unequivocal observations which could be made by this 83 Spl.C.No.513/2015 court is that the prosecution has proved their case

beyond reasonable doubt. SUMMATION 48. In the instant case, the accused who was

running Medical Shop in the name of Madonna Medicals

since 02.01.1996 had befriended with PW-1 Uma

Shankar who had returned back from UAE and had

induced him to enter into a Partnership Agreement on

01.03.2014 and made him to invest Rs.20.00 lakhs in

his Medical Pharma Business with an assurance to

return the same with high profit/ dividend. On the

receipt of the said investment, he started to furnish the

Medical shop by obtaining necessary materials from

PW.4 which he had never returned back and also the

receipts which have been produced before the Court at

Ex.P.11 would indicate of receiving the materials to an

extent of Rs.7.50 lakhs. It is relevant to note that the

bills were raised in the name of Madonna Medicals on

26.12.2013, 23.01.2014, 06.03.2014, 30.01.2014,

27.02.2014 respectively totally amounting to Rs.7.50 84 Spl.C.No.513/2015 lakhs would indicate that he had received huge materials

for furnishing of the shop which is not denied by the

witness specifically and also the evidence of PW.2

Elizabeth D'souza which has remained unchallenged

would indicate that he had allured and induced her to

make an investment of Rs.5.00 lakhsfor the Pharma

Business and likewise, the evidence of PW.3 Venkatesh

Babu, PW.5 N.Natarajan is also indicate that they had

made necessary investments in his Pharma Business

and further the evidence of PW 3 Venkatesh Babu would

indicate that the accused had received the investment

and had even paid a sum of Rs5000/- every month and

later on he had refused to return the amount when he

had demanded for higher profit. All these aspects would

prove that the prosecution has proved their case beyond

reasonable doubt. In the entire case, an amount which

has been handed over by the witnesses have been under

the terminology and guise of investment and not as a

simple loan transaction, though it is submitted that the

Loan Agreement at Ex.P.2 cannot be accepted, or relied 85 Spl.C.No.513/2015 upon, when the said Loan Agreement is appreciated with

the document which is produced at Ex.P.2 which is

Partnership Deed, would only indicate and fortify the fact

that a sum of Rs.20.00 lakhs was received as investment

by accused from PW.1 Uma Shankar. 49. Lastly, the evidence of accused himself, which

was led before the Court as DW.1 would only fortify the

case of the prosecution rather than that of accused. By

considering all these aspects, the prosecution has proved

its case beyond reasonable doubt. Accordingly, I answer

Point Nos.2 and 3 in the Affirmative. 50. Point No.4 : In view of the observations made
on Point Nos.1 to 3, I proceed to pass the following; ORDER

 Acting u/ Sec.235(2) of Cr.P.C., the

 accused Thangappan, is hereby convicted for

 the offence punishable U/ Sec.420 of Indian

 Penal Code and Sec.9 of the Karnataka 86 Spl.C.No.513/2015 Protection of Interest of Depositors in

 Financial Establishment Act, 2004. Bail bond and surety bond of accused

 stands cancelled. For hearing regarding sentence. (Dictated to Stenographer Grade-I, transcribed by
her, revised and corrected by me and then pronounced
in open court on 27th February, 2024)

 (Santhosh Gajanan Bhat)
 LXXXI Addl. City Civil & Sessions Judge,
 Bengaluru City (CCH-82)
 (Special Court exclusively to deal with criminal cases
 related to elected former and sitting MPs/ MLAs in
 the State of Karnataka)
 C/c of XLVII Addl. City Civil and Sessions Judge and
 Judge forCBI Cases, Bengaluru (CCH-48)

 ORDER REGARDING SENTENCE

 In the instant case, the accused is hereby convicted

for the offence punishable under Sec.9 of KPIDFE Act

and also under Section 420 of IPC. The accused is secured from judicial custody and

is present before the Court. The Learned Special Public Prosecutor Smt. K.

Anupama has vehemently argued that the offences

against the accused for the provisions of law have been

proved beyond reasonable doubt. It has been submitted

that the accused had induced complainant PW.1 Uma

Shankar, who had lent a sum of Rs.20.00 lakhs by way

of investment in the Pharmacy Business and whereas,

PW.2 Elizabeth D'souza had invested Rs.5.00 lakhs and

likewise, PW.3 Venkatesh Babu had invested a sum of

Rs.5.00 lakhs and PW.5 N. Natarajan had invested a

sum of Rs.3.00 lakhs and whereas, PW.4 Prakash is said

to have invested Rs.7.50 lakhs towards furnishing of the

Medical pharmacy shop and Rs.5.00 lakhs towards his

Pharmacy Business. By pointing out all the said aspects,

it is her submission that the economic offences are to be

viewed very seriously and a stringent view is required to

be taken into account. It is also been submitted that the

intention of enacting KPIDFE Act was with a sole

intention to punish snollygoster persons who are in the

habit of cheating and defrauding the general gullible 88 Spl.C.No.513/2015 public. Accordingly, she has sought for imposing

maximum punishment as provided under the aforesaid

provision of law. The Learned Counsel for the accused is present

before the Court and has submitted that accused is the

sole bread earner in his family and his wife is also

suffering from medical ailments and for that reason she

has even resigned from her job. That apart, it is

submitted that the accused is having three children, of

whom, the youngest is suffering from heart ailment and

also the second son is taking up the Board Exams.

Accordingly, she has submitted that the Court may take

into account of the aforesaid aspects and a lenient view

can be taken in imposing punishment to the accused. The Court has also heard the accused, who has

also reiterated the submissions made by his counsel. Heard the parties and the point that requires to be

considered is what would be the appropriate sentence

that could be imposed on the accused person. 89 Spl.C.No.513/2015 The Hon'ble Apex Court has time and again

reiterated that, in matters of awarding sentence, the

court should be cautious and has to consider all the

relevant factors to arrive at a just conclusion. It is a

cardinal principle of law that the nature and gravity of

crime is to be appreciated and not the criminal which are

germane for consideration to impose suitable

punishment. Further, the Hon'ble Apex Court has

directed the trial courts to precisely consider the

aggravating and mitigating factors at the time of

awarding sentence. If the aggravating and mitigating

factors are appreciated, the same can be culled out as

follows; Aggravating Factors: Mitigating Factors: