The present two appeals are directed at the instance of
assessee against the order of Ld. CIT(A) dated 31.12.2014 and
19.11.2015 passed in A.Y. 2010-11. ITA No. 47/Rjt/2015 arose
against the proceedings taken under section 144 of the Income tax
Act in other words it is a quantum appeal. Whereas ITA No.
25/Rjt/2016 arose against the levy of penalty u/s. 271B of the Act for
not getting the account audited u/s. 44AB of the Income tax Act. A.Y. 2009-10 2 First we take quantum appeal i.e ITA No. 47/Rjt/2015 2. Ground No. 1 is a general ground of appeal hence does not call
for recording of any specific finding. 3. In ground No. 2 assessee has pleaded that Ld. CIT(A) has erred
on facts as also in law in rejecting the contention of assessee that
order passed by the Assessing Officer u/s. 144 of the Income tax Act
deserves to be quashed. No doubt Assessing Officer has issued
number of notices and thereafter passed an ex-party assessment
order according to his best of judgment u/s. 144 of the Income tax
Act. But Ld. CIT(A) has taken into consideration all the evidences and
thereafter passed an order on merit. We do not see any error in the
order of the Ld. CIT(A) on this issue. This ground of appeal is
rejected. 4. Both the grounds are inter connected with each other, in brief
issue involved in these grounds relates to addition on account of
unexplained deposit in the bank account held with Rajkot Commercial
Co-operative Bank Ltd. There were cash deposit of Rs. 15,30,000/-
and cheque deposit of Rs. 15,81,000/-. Ld. CIT(A) confirmed the
addition of Rs. 15,30,000/- out of cash deposit in this cash account
and 3,00,000/- out of cheque deposits. 5. The grievance of the assessee is that Ld. CIT(A) erred in
confirming the addition of Rs. 18,30,000/- on account of unexplained
deposits (cash + cheque) in this bank account. A.Y. 2009-10 3 6. The brief facts of the case are that assessee has filed her return
of income on 07.07.2010 declaring total income of Rs. 2,05,208/-.
The case of the assessee was selected for scrutiny assessment and a
notice u/s. 143(2) was issued and served upon the assessee. Ld.
Assessing Officer has issued number of notices u/s. 142(1) but these
were not replied. The Ld. Assessing Officer thereafter passed an ex-
party assessment order. He found that Rs. 15,81,000/- were credited
in the bank account of the assessee with Rajkot Commercial
Cooperative Bank Ltd. through clearance of cheque. Similarly he
found a cash deposit of Rs. 15,30,000/- according to the Assessing
Officer assessee fail to give any plausible explanation indicating the
source of deposit in this account. Hence he made an addition of Rs.
31,11,000/-. 7. Dissatisfied with the assessment order assessee carried the
matter in appeal before the Ld. CIT(A). She submitted a detail reply
which has been reproduced by the Ld. CIT(A). For appreciating the
controversy in more scientific and convenient manner, we deem it
appropriate to take note relevant part of this explanation which read
as under:- cooperative but the non-attendance was due to the fact that the appellant did not
know what to do. All these facts came to surface with the issue of the first notice by
the income tax department. In fact, during the course of assessment proceedings, the
appellant had communicated with the banks, asking them to furnish the details of
the alleged deposits, so that necessary explanation can be submitted to the AO. (f) With this background, the appellant now submit the detailed clarification /
submission against the additions made since all the additions and grounds of appeal
are interlinked. (i) As far as finalization of assessment u/s 144 of the Act is concerned, your
 honour's kind attention is invited to para 2 of the assessment order wherein ITA No.47/Rjt/2015 & 25/Rjt/2016 A.Y. 2009-10 5 the AO has categorically stated that Shri Jatin Ravani, the AR and Shri
 Ashokbhai Chhatra husband of the appellant attended and furnished the
 data in respect of loans received from four persons. Copy of cash book,
 death certificate of Jayshreeben Atulbhai (a creditor for Rs. 2,97,000/-),
 confirmation of Shri Bharatbhai P. Vachhani and source of deposit being
 withdrawal from Provident fund by Ashokbhai Chhatra. Thus finalization of
 assessment u/s 144 of the Act is not justified. (ii) As regards the cash deposits of Rs.l5,30,000/- in the bank account is
 concerned appellant respectfully submits that she is a primary school
 teacher and maintains her regular bank account with SBI. However, her son
 has opened a joint bank account with Rajkot Commercial Co-op Bank Ltd
 and carried out the transaction in shares without her knowledge. Later it
 was transpired that, he obtained funds from various persons and credited in
 various names including that of the appellant. This fact is evident from the
 cash book filed during the course of assessment proceedings a copy thereof
 is attached. The appellant prays that, the appellant is not at all aware of
 these transactions and hence, the same may be treated as the transactions of
 the appellant's son and whatever recourse may be taken under the Income
 tax Act, may kindly be taken in his case. But the appellant may not be
 penalized of the actions of her children. (iii) So far as credit of Rs. 15,81,000/- in bank account by clearing / transfer is ,
 the AO vide para 2 of the assessment order stated the appellant had
 furnished confirmations etc. in respect of four creditors as stated in
 para (b) above. The details of these creditors are once again furnished as
 under:- extent of Rs.15,14,000/-. As regards the balance amount of Rs. 67,0007-are
 miscellaneous entries including the dividend income etc. (v) Without prejudice to the above, the entire cash and the cheques deposited in
 the bank account were used in the share transaction with Anugrah Stock and
 Broking Pvt. Ltd and M/s Vibrant Equities. As stated above all the transactions were
 carried out by the son of the appellant and appellant has no knowledge about the
 same. Further, it is the AO who had collected the data and supplied to the appellant
 as appellant was not at all aware above ABCD of the share dealing / F & O
 transactions. Further the AO in the course of assessment Proceedings, from the
 collected data of M/s Anugrah Stock and Broking Pvt. Ltd worked loss of Rs.
 22,22,494/- suffered by the appellant. However, neither the appellant nor the AO
 was in possession of statement of transactions with vibrant equities, even though the
 AO estimated a profit of Rs.25,000/- in the transactions through Vibrant Equities. In
 this regard appellant submits that the entire transactions in the stock market were
 made through banking channel by her sons and as such the question of any
 estimation of profit from the transactions with Vibrant equities does not arises. (vi) From the facts narrated above, assuming but not admitting that the cash of
 Rs.15.30 lakhs deposited in the bank account if held to be unexplained and held as
 belonging to the appellant, then the loss of Rs. 22.22 lakhs suffered in the stock
 transaction carried out through this account which is not reflected in the books of
 account gets set off as both the sides are unrecorded in the books of account. Hence
 net loss would be Rs. (22.22 - 15.30 ) lakhs to be carried forward to the next year.
 However, the AO though verified all the transactions made through this bank
 account and the account of the appellant with registered broker but did not give set
 off of business loss incurred in the intra head of account as provided in section
 70(1) of the Act. In order to appreciate the facts on hand provisions of section 70 is
 reproduced below: (2) Where the result of the computation made for any assessment year under
sections 48 to 55 in respect of any short-term capital asset is a loss, the assessee
shall be entitled to have the amount of such loss set off against the income, if any, as
arrived at under a similar computation made for the assessment year in respect of
any other capital asset. (3) Where the result of the computation made for any assessment year under
sections 48 to 55 in respect of any capital asset (other than a short-term capital
asset) is a loss, the assessee shall be entitled to have the amount of such loss set off
against the income, if any, as arrived at under a similar computation made for the
assessment year in respect of any other capital asset not being a short-term capital
asset.] (vii) Thus, while giving the treatment of cash and sundry deposits by cheque as
unexplained investment u/s 69 A, as per provisions of section 70(1) of the Act, the
AO was required to give set off of trading loss in shares / F & O of Rs. 22.22 lakhs
resulting in net loss of Rs. 6.92 lakhs. Hon'ble High Court of Gujarat has in the case
of Glass Lines Equipments Co. Ltd. vs. CIT 253 ITR 454 (Guj) held that; It is well
settled canon of interpretation that a document has to be read as a whole: it is not
permissible to accept apart and ignore the rest of the document. Reliance is also
placed on the following decisions: vs. ACIT [2"Since, income declared in survey falls under one of the heads of
 income, current year losses can be set off against such undisclosed income ". ii) Hon'ble 012] 19 taxmann.com 90 (Ahd) has held that: There may be situation where a particular method, if adopted, it may be
more • advantageous to the assessee than any other method and where
two view or methods are possible the view or method which is beneficial
to the tax payer shall be adopted in the absence of any specific provision
to the contrary. (x) The above view has further been supported by CBDT's circular
No. 26 dated 07.07.1955 and No. 721 dated 13,09.1995. (xi) Under the circumstances, the appellant relies on the decision of
Gujarat High Court in the case of CIT vs. Shilpa Dyeing Printing Mills
(P ) ltd, [2013] 39 taxmann.com 3 (Gujarat) and Hon'ble ITAT,
Ahmedabad Bench 'B' in the case of Bharat Resins Ltd, vs. ACIT [2012]
19 taxmann.com 90 (Ahd) which are binding in nature. In view of the
facts narrated above, the appeal may kindly be decided on merits. 3.0 Ground of appeal related to disallowance of deduction u/s 80 of
the Act amounting to Rs. 1,00,000/-. (a) The AO vide para 13 of the assessment order did not allow the
 deduction u/s 80C on the ground that the appellant did not provide
 any proof thereof. A.Y. 2009-10 9 (b) As submitted supra appellant derives income from salary from Maa
 Anandmayi Kanya Vidyalaya. She derived gross salary income of Rs.
 4,80,435/-from the school. The school authority have deducted
 General Provident Fund (GPF) of Rs.1,23,351/- from the salary. The
 salary certificate is already on record. However a copy of salary
 certificate issued by the School authority is attached. It may be
 observed from the salary certificate that a deduction of Rs.
 1,23,351/-towards GPF have been made from the salary payment. In
 view of the above, disallowance is unjustified and deserves to be
 deleted. (c) Finally, the appellant prays that, if the above income is treated as
 belonging to the appellant and if measures to recover the tax thereon is
 imposed, then the appellant will have no alternative but to dispose all
 that she has in order to meet the tax obligations. Further, this tax would
 be without enjoying the income, on which the tax is being sought.
 Hon'ble Supreme Court has held that, the 'Right to live ' supersedes all
 other rights and it is the basic constitutional right of a citizen. It is
 secured only when a citizen is assured of all facilities to develop herself
 and is freed from restrictions which inhibit her growth. All human rights
 are designed to achieve this object. The word 'life' is employed by Article
 21 and it takes in its sweep not only the concept of mere physical
 existence but also all finer values of life including the right to work and
 right to livelihood. This right is a fundamental right guaranteed to all
 persons residing in India. This right to life as guaranteed by Article 21 is
 not reduced to a mere paper platitude but is kept alive, vibrant and
 pulsating so that the country can effectively march towards the affirmed
 goal of establishment of an egalitarian society as envisaged by the
 founding fathers while enacting the constitution of India. If the tax for
 which the appellant has not earned income, is imposed, then the
 appellant will not just loose the savings made thus far, but will also loose
 all her future income. Further, the appellant has already reached the age
 of 56 and only 2 years of service remains. With the appellant's present
 income, the appellant would hardly be able to meet the tax obligations.
 Therefore, by virtue of the impugned order, the department is seizing the
 appellant's right of 'Right to Live', The appellant is not violating any law. 8. The Ld. CIT(A) has gone through this explanation and was
satisfied with the explanation of the assessee to the extent of Rs. A.Y. 2009-10 10 12,14,000/- credited in her account through account payee cheques.
He directed the Assessing Officer to delete this addition. He confirmed
the addition of Rs. 3,00,000/-. However he was not satisfied with the
explanation of assessee qua cash deposit of Rs. 15,30,000/-. He
confirmed the addition. The finding of the Ld. CIT(A) read as under:- A.Y. 2009-10 11 8.1 On going through the report of the of the AO it is seen that out of total
 deposits made by cheque, one cheque of Rs 2,50,000/- was deposited from the
 account of the husband of the appellant, which was from his GPF proceeds.
 Necessary evidences have been produced before me. Therefore, the deposit to
 the extent of Rs 2,50,000/- is acceptable and the addition made is directed to be
 deleted. Then there are cheques of Rs.4,00,000/- received from Bharat
 Vachhani, Rs 2,67,000/- from Vikram Sejpal and Rs.2,97,000/- received from
 Vikram Sejpal. In support of the same, the AR has produced copy of
 confirmation and bank account of the depositors. The AO has also verified the
 transaction and found in 9rder. Therefore in In light of the evidences, the same
 are accepted and these three additions are also directed to be deleted. Then
 there is one deposit of Rs 3,00,000/- and the depositor is unknown. In support of
 this, the AR has produced appellant's application made to RCC Bank, seeking
 details of the depositor. The appellant also produced a copy of the letter issued
 by RCC bank to the BOB, requesting them to furnish the details of the depositor
 who had issued the cheque. However, nothing more is on record. Since the
 depositor is unknown, I have no alternative but to treat the same as unexplained,
 within the meaning of section 68 of the I.T. Act. Hence, out of the addition of Rs
 15,81,000/-, additions to the tune of Rs. 12,14,000/- is directed to be deleted and
 the remaining additions of Rs 3,00,000/- gets sustained. Therefore, this ground
 is partly allowed. 9. Before us Ld. counsel for the assessee reiterated his submission
as were raised before the Ld. CIT(A). He contended that Ld. First
Appellate Authority in principal agreed with the contention of the
assessee that an enquiry in the hands of Co-owner is required to be
made and therefore in paragraph No. 7 of the impugned order. Ld.
First Appellate Authority has given specific direction to the Assessing
Officer so that justice may be done to the assessee as well as interest
of the Revenue could be safeguarded. 10. On the other hand Ld. D.R relied upon the order of Assessing
Officer. A.Y. 2009-10 12 11. We have duly considered the rival contention and gone through
the record carefully. The assessee has pointed out that she is a
salaried employee working as a teacher in Maa Anandmayi Kanya
Vidyalaya Rajkot. Her husband is a retired employee of Gujarat
Government (Police Department). Thus both the husband and wife
were not having any other independent source of income. It was
pointed out to the Assessing Officer as well as to the Ld. CIT(A) that
without her knowledge, her son has carried out these activities after
opening a joint account. The Ld. CIT(A) on an analysis of the
submission of the assessee agreed to the extent that these
transactions in this bank account were carried out by her son. The
case of the assessee was that her son had deposited the cash
collected from various persons while enrolling them into the ponzi
scheme run by Deven Malaviya. Criminal case of fraud etc were
registered against Shri Deven Malaviya and he was declared as a
proclaimed offender. The news item published in the newspaper were
placed on the record. She has shunted out her son from the residence
because, daily there were dispute from the public from whom her son
has collected the money. In this situation her plea is that cash
deposit in this account cannot be assessed in the hands of assessee
rather it should be investigated in the hands of her son Shri Ashish
Chhatrra as observed by the Ld. CIT(A) in paragraph number 7. 12. Apart from the above the assessee has pointed out that Ld.
Assessing Officer has conducted the enquiry from share trading
business carried out by her son through M/s Anugrah Stock and
Broking Pvt. Ltd in paragraph number 10. Ld. Assessing Officer has
calculated the loss suffered in share transactions through this broker
at Rs. 22,22,940/-. Thus even if the addition is being confirmed in ITA No.47/Rjt/2015 & 25/Rjt/2016 A.Y. 2009-10 13 her hand then it is to be set off against this loss. On due
consideration of the above, we are of the view that Assessing Officer
has not conducted the proper enquiry for ascertaining the details of
depositor. The Ld. Assessing Officer could call for deposit application
form from the bank. He could verify them on test cheque basis that
would have disclosed, whether assessee has deposited the amount in
the bank account or her son. Even if some stranger has deposited,
then, it could be located on whose behalf, he has deposited. After
ascertaining this detail, Ld. Assessing Officer should have confronted
either the assessee or her son, but he assumed certain things against
the assessee and proceed to make the addition. It is also pertinent to
observe that if transactions are assumed to be related to the
assessee then why losses of Rs. 22.22 lakh suffered by the assessee
could not be set off. No finding has been recorded either by the
Assessing Officer or by the Ld. CIT(A). In this situation we deemed it
appropriate to set aside this issue to the file of Assessing Officer with
the direction that Ld. Assessing Officer shall first ascertain the details
of deposits made with bank on the basis of deposits application form,
thereafter he would decide whether action in the hands of assessee is
to be taken or not. In case it emerges out that deposits were made
by the assessee then as to why losses in the share business is to be
set of against this income or not. This issue is to be decided in
accordance with the law by recording specific finding. 13. With the above directions appeal of the assessee is allowed for
statistical purpose. Both the additions i.e. addition of Rs. 15,13,000/-
and Rs. 3,00,000/- made with the aid section 68 are set aside to the
file of the Assessing Officer for re-adjudication. Ld. Assessing Officer
shall carried out this exercise after providing due opportunity of
hearing to the assessee. A.Y. 2009-10 14 Now we take ITA No. 25/Rjt/2016 14. The grievance of the assessee is that the Ld. CIT(A) has erred
in confirming the penalty of Rs. 1,00,000/-. The brief facts of the
case are that Assessing Officer was of the opinion that assessee
should have audited her books of account u/s. 44AB of the Act since
she fail to get her account audited therefore, he initiated penalty
proceedings u/s. 271B of the Income tax Act. The Ld. Assessing
Officer has observed that share transactions were carried out through
Anugrah Stock and Broking Pvt. Ltd. by using the bank account of the
assessee. Hence she was required to get her account audited because
turnover in these transactions was more than Rs. 16.96 crores. The
stand of the assessee is that she is a salaried employee. She has filed
her return under the category of salaried employee, whatever
transactions attributed to her are concerned, these are related to her
son who has alone used joint account with the bank. She came to
know only when Assessing Officer has pointed out the short comings
and sought the explanation of assessee about the cash deposits in
the bank. The Ld. Assessing Officer did not accept the contention of
the assessee and imposed the penalty of Rs.1,00,000/-. 15. Appeal to the CIT(A) did not bring any relief to the assessee. 16. With the assistance of Ld. Representatives, we have gone
through the record carefully. We have taken cognizance of assessee
submissions given in the quantum appeal. She has submitted that
she is a school teacher does not indulge any share trading. After
examining the conduct of assessee, it could easily be ascertained,
that a person with this background could not be indulged in day to
day share trading business of Rs. 16.96 crores. Therefore Ld. ITA No.47/Rjt/2015 & 25/Rjt/2016 A.Y. 2009-10 15 Revenue authority ought to have visualized her explanation in light of
her background and a mechanical approach ought not to have been
adopted. The Ld. Assessing Officer failed to bring conclusive evidence
proving assessee's explanation as false. Therefore, he was not
required to get her account audited and no penalty deserves to be
imposed upon her. We allow this appeal of the assessee and delete
the penalty. 17. In the result ITA No. 47/Rjt/2015 is partly allowed whereas ITA
No. 25/Rjt/2016 is allowed.