ITA.No.3326/Ahd/2009 and ITA No.3440/Ahd/2009 are at the end
of the assessee and Revenue against the common order of the
ld.CIT(A)-III, Ahmedabad dated 15.10.2009 arising from the
assessment order dated 29.8.2008 passed under section 143(3) of the
Income Tax Act. IT(SS)A.No.3/Ahd/2012 is an appeal filed by the
Revenue against the order of the ld.CIT(A) dated 5.10.2011. This
appeal has arisen out of penalty order passed under section 271(1)(c) of the Act on 16.3.2011. 2. The assessee on receipt of notice in this appeal has filed CO
bearing No.70/Ahd/2012. We have heard all these appeals together
and deem it appropriate to dispose of them by this common order. 3. First we take quantum appeals i.e. ITA No.3326/Ahd/2009 and ITA No.3440/Ahd/2009. 4. Common issue involved in both the appeals is whether receipts
received by the assessee on sale of shares is to be assessed under the
head "Short Term Capital Gain" or "Long Term Capital Gain" or under
the head "Business Income". 5. Brief facts of the case are that assessee-company was
incorporated on 14.7.1997 and it was registered with the Registrar of
Companies. It has filed its return of income for the Asstt.Year 2006-07
on 26.12.2006 declaring total income at Rs.7,68,57,350/- which
included profit and gains of business or profession of Rs.4,05,293/- and
short term capital gain of Rs.7,64,52,057/-. The case of the assessee
 ITA No.3326 and 3440/Ahd/2009
 With 2 Others 3 was selected for scrutiny assessment and notice under section 143(2) of
the Act on 16.11.2007 was issued and served upon the assessee. On
scrutiny of the accounts, it revealed to the AO that the assessee has
claimed itself as investment in shares and securities, and therefore, on
sale of shares it has disclosed short term capital gain. The ld.AO was
of the opinion that this claim of the assessee requires to be investigated
keeping in view various facts which determine the status of the portfolio
i.e. investor or trader. The ld.AO appraised himself with CBDT circular
bearing no.4/2007 dated 15.6.2007. He, thereafter, made a detailed
analysis of the transactions conducted by the assessee in purchase and
sale of shares. According to the AO, the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the
case of CIT Vs. H. Holck Larson , 160 ITR 67 has discussed this issue in
detail. According to him, the Hon'ble Court has propounded six broader
tests under which the transactions of purchase and sale of shares ought
to be looked into. Thereafter, the ld.AO has examined the transactions
of the assessee under these six tests propounded by the Hon'ble
Supreme Court. He further observed that one Smt.Rupal Naresh
Panchal and Sugandh Estate and Investment Pvt.Ltd. had indulged in an
IPO scam whereby these persons have cornered shares reserved for
retail customers for IPOs. by fraudulent method. The assessee-
company has financed more than Rs.29 crores in such activity,
therefore, this financial activity of the assessee is sufficient to construe
that investment in shares, which were purchased from these two
concerns was with an intention of business. Accordingly, the ld.AO has
held that the assessee was trading in shares. He declined the claim of
the assessee for taxing it on the proceeds received from sales of shares
under the head "short term capital gain". The ld.CIT(A) while
appreciating this controversy, has summarized the reasons assigned by
the AO in arriving on the conclusions that the assessee is to be treated
as a trader in the shares. These reasons read as under: "6.1 The appellant had provided submissions dated 26-8-2008
which are produced in para 2.3 of the assessment order. The said
submissions are not accepted by the A.O. It is stated by him that
the issue about taxing of the surplus arising out of transactions
considering it as trading transactions or capital gains was
considered in various decisions. He has referred to the decision of
the Supreme Court in the case of CIT vs. H. Hoick Larson 160 ITR
67 and stated that the appellants case is to be discussed with
reference to the test laid down in the said case. He has thereafter
discussed the issue with reference to such tests which are
summarized as under: ii) The second criteria referred to by the A.O. is length of
 holding/ownership. He has stated that the assessee had
 sold shares within short time. He has given details of
 purchase and sale of shares and stated that period of
 holding was short.. iii) Next test referred to by the A.O. is that of frequency
 and number of transactions and it is stated that on the basis
 of details of transactions the same were frequent and that it
 was the main source of income which was capital gain on
 sale of shares. It is stated that similar trend was noticed in
 earlier year and subsequent year. The shares were acquired
 from the persons involved in IPO Scam. It is stated that the
 appellant had advanced funds to the persons involved in
 ITA No.3326 and 3440/Ahd/2009
 With 2 Others 5 IPO Scam and had acquired shares against such advance
 with a view to get maximum number of shares. On the basis
 of that he has stated that the appellant was a trader in
 shares. iv) It is stated that as per fourth criteria no supplementary
 work in respect of shares is found to have been carried out
 by the assessee. v) It is stated that when the prices of the shares and mutual
 fund reached targeted price the same were sold. There was
 no emergency to have ready money. vi) The next criteria stated by the A.O. is motive to earn
 maximum profit and not to have investment. The intention
 of holding the shares for a longer period and ensuring the
 benefit of ownership are missing. vii) The assessing officer has referred to the case of H.
 Mohamed & Co. , supra, and stated that the commodity may
 in the case of one assessee be stock in trade whereas in
 case of other it may be capital asset. It is stated that in the
 case of an assessee who carry on business of buying and
 selling of land the land may be stock in trade and in the
 case of a person who has invested in land he gets the
 income therefrom which is from capital asset. Thus
 according to him the criteria is whether it was stock in trade
 of the assessee buying or selling commodity or it was a
 mere investment. It is stated that applying the above tests to the case of the
 appellant the surplus arising on sale of shares is nothing but
 business income. He has also referred to the CBDT instruction
 No.1827 dated 31-8-1989 and circular No.4 of 2007. With this
 discussion the profit of Rs.7,64,52,057/- on sale of shares is
 taxed as business income." 6. The ld.CIT(A) has re-appreciated the contentions of the assessee,
and partly accepted that the assessee has made investment in the
shares. However, to the extent of shares were purchased by the
assessee through Smt.Rupal Naresh Panchal and Sugandh Estate and
Investment Pvt.Ltd., the ld.CIT(A) has upheld the conclusions of the AO
to treat the assessee as trader. In this way, the ld.CIT(A) has
 ITA No.3326 and 3440/Ahd/2009
 With 2 Others 6 bifurcated the transactions in two parts. The receipts received on sale
of shares purchased from Smt.Rupal Naresh Panchal and Sugandh
Estate and Investment Pvt.Ltd. amounting to Rs.4,16,74,781/- was
directed to be examined under the head "profit from business". As far
as the balance surplus amount of Rs.3,47,77,276/- shown by the
assessee from sale of shares purchased other than from Smt.Rupal
Naresh Panchal and Sugandh Estate and Investment Pvt.Ltd., was
allowed to be treated as investment in the shares. The Revenue is
aggrieved with regard to this finding of the CIT(A) in its appeal,
whereas, the assessee is aggrieved with regard to first part of the order
of the CIT(A). The relevant finding recorded by the CIT(A) on this issue
is worth to note. It reads as under: ITA No.3326 and 3440/Ahd/2009
 With 2 Others 7 8.1 In the present case, the appellant company has financed more
than Rs.29.00 Crores to Rupal Panchal and "Sugandh" group with
the intention that these groups would make multiple applications
in the IPOs of certain companies. No security of any kind has been
taken by the appellant before advancing such a huge funds to
"Panchal" and "Sugandh" Groups. In other words, the appellant
company was aware that Rupal Panchal and "Sugandh" group are
engaged in making large number of applications in the IPO of
different companies in fictitious names with the intention to
corner large number of shares reserved for retail investors. The
appellant was also aware that a part of shares so allotted, shall
also be shared by these "groups" with the appellant. Such an
activity has to be termed as an organized and systematic activity,
carried on continuously with a view to earn profits. The sole
intention at the time of acquisition of shares through such mode
was to immediately sell these shares at a profit. Such an
organized and systematic activity has to be construed as
adventure in the nature of trade. In such situation, the surplus of
Rs.4,16,74,781/- has to be taxed as gain from the adventure in
the nature of trade and same has to be taxed as business income.
The Assessing Officer is directed to tax the gain of
Rs.4,16,74,781/- at the rates applicable in the case of business. 8.2 As regards to balance surplus amount of Rs.3,47,77,276/-,
this surplus has arisen as the appellant company had invested in
shares it's own funds. The company is not having any object
clause as per the memorandum of association which authorizes it
trading in shares. However, the appellant is authorized to invest
funds in shares and securities and immovable properties as a
supplementary object. It is also noticed that investment in shares
is shown by the appellant in the account under the head
Investment and not stock in trade. Similar investment in share
and purchase and sale of shares was shown in the earlier year as
capital gain and was accepted by the Assessing Officer while
passing the assessment order on 31-12-2007 u/s. 143(3) of the
I.T. Act for the assessment year 2005-06. Thus the appellant's
intention of making investment was clear. The appellant has not
incurred any interest on borrowings for such investment. Thus
borrowed funds are not applied. There is no motive of trading in
shares established by the Assessing Officer except referring to the
volume and number of transactions. I also appreciate the
arguments that the A.O's contention about period of holding are
not correct particularly in view of the fact that definition of short
term capital asset in respect of shares and securities itself
specifically provides that the period of holding would be less than
one year. This itself suggest that the short period of holding is not
 ITA No.3326 and 3440/Ahd/2009
 With 2 Others 8 the criteria to be considered as trading transactions. Apart from
 this, the section 111A also provides for specific treatment of tax in
 respect of short term capital asset, particularly when STT has
 been paid. In appellant's case, the transactions are subjected to
 STT and such STT has not been claimed or allowed in the
 computation of income. I also appreciate the reference made to
 the Bombay decision in the case of Gopal Purohit 29 SOT 117,
 which supports the appellant's explanation. The other judicial
 decisions relied upon by the A.R. are also supporting its
 explanation. In the circumstances, merely because the appellant
 has sold the shares which were purchased in the booming period
 and it earned surplus by way of capital gain, the A.O. was not
 justified in holding it as a business profit. He is directed to tax
 such surplus of Rs.3,47,77,276/- as short term capital gains as
 per provisions of section 111A ." 6. While impugning the orders of the Revenue authorities below, the
ld.counsel for the assessee took us through the record and contended
that in the memorandum of association, main objects to be pursued by
the assessee-company on its incorporation is; to carry on and
undertake as its principal business the business of finance and to
finance lease operations of all kinds, purchasing, selling, hiring or letting
on hire all kind of plants and machinery and equipment that the
company may think fit and to assist in financing of all and every kind
and description of hire purchase or deferred payment of similar
transactions and to subsidies, finance or assists in subsiding or
financing the sale and maintenance of any goods, articles or
commodities of all and every kind and description upon any terms
whatsoever and to purchase all forms of immovable and moveable
property including lands and buildings, plant and machinery,
equipments, ships, aircraft, automobiles, computers and all consumer,
commercial and industrial items and to lease them in any manner
whatsoever including release thereof, regardless of whether the
property purchase and leased be new and or used and from India or
from any part of the world. ITA No.3326 and 3440/Ahd/2009
 With 2 Others 9 8. In its incidental or ancillary objects, the assessee was to invest in
securities and shares. The ld. counsel for the assessee, while taking us
through the clauses from the memorandum of association reproduced in
the statement of facts emphasized that the assessee was never allowed
to do business in the shares. In the past, it has been treated as
investor. As an investor, the shares have been transferred in the name
of assessee. It has paid security transaction tax on sale of shares. It
has not used borrowed funds. The ld.CIT(A) has accepted the
contentions of the assessee, that it was an investor in the past. It has
made investment in the present year. Only circumstances, which has
been considered by the ld.CIT(A) for creating a distinction between one
portfolio of the assessee is that of mode of acquisition of shares from
Smt.Rupal Naresh Panchal and Sugandh Estate and Investment Pvt.Ltd.
According to the ld.counsel for the assessee, Smt.Rupal Naresh Panchal
and Sugandh Estate and Investment Pvt.Ltd. might have involved in an
IPO scam. But, how it affects the investment of the assessee ? By this
mode, the assessee might have got more shares. But the attempt to
get shares should not be construed that it was a business. Test is not
mode of acquisition shares, but the object of investment is the test.
Mode of acquisition will not change the nature of asset acquired by the
assessee. In his next fold of submission, he submitted that Smt.Rupal
Naresh Panchal and Sugandh Estate and Investment Pvt.Ltd. had
involved in the IPO scam. The assessee has purchased five scrip viz.
FCS Software Ltd., Nandan Exim, Shoppers Stop and Yes Bank. If the
size of shares purchased by the assessee through these two concerns,
of these companies is taken into consideration with the size of public
issue, then it would reveal that the total acquisition of shares by the
assessee is less than 1%. He pointed out that IDFC has issued 40.36
crores shares. The assessee has purchased only 6,64,500 shares,
which in terms of percentage comes to 0.16% of the total shares issued
in the public. Similar is the positions with regard to other scrips. He
 ITA No.3326 and 3440/Ahd/2009
 With 2 Others 10 further contended that the ld.CIT(A) ought to have adopted principle of
consistency. There are no specific changes in the facts from earlier
years to this year. For buttressing this contention, he relied upon the
judgment of Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of, Director of Income
Tax (Exemptions) vs. Escorts Cardiac Diseases Hospital Society , 300 ITR 75, Radhasoami Satsang Vs C.I.T , 193 ITR 321(SC), Taraben
Ramanbhai Patel Vs. ITO , 215 ITR 323 (Guj). 9. On the other hand, the ld.DR relied upon the order of the AO. He
took us through page no.15 of the assessment order and pointed out
that there was frequency in transactions by the assessee. He also
pointed out that the assessee has purchased shares from the persons
who are involved in IPO scam. Such purchases were large in number
which has given rise a surplus of Rs.4,16,74,781/-. This activity was
carried out simply keeping in view the profit motive in an organized
manner. The SEBI has debarred Smt.Rupal Naresh Panchal and
Sugandh Estate and Investment Pvt.Ltd. from conducting the share
trading business at National Stock Exchange. He placed on record copy
of a letter dated 13.1.2006 written by National Stock Exchange of India
Ltd. It is a letter to the members whereby the members were informed
that SEBI has debarred Smt.Rupal Naresh Panchal and Sugandh Estate
and Investment Pvt.Ltd. to buy and sell or deal in the security market
directly or indirect till further directions. The assessee has been
prohibited to deal in shares of IDFC Ltd. 10. Before we embark upon an inquiry on the facts of present case so
as to find out, whether assessee is to be termed as involving in the
trading of shares or is to be treated as a simplicitor investor. We would
like to refer certain broad principle culled out by ITAT Lucknow Bench in
the case of Sarnath Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. reported in 120 TTJ 216.
These tests read as under:- Whether it is treated stock-in-trade or investment. Whether
shown in opening/closing stock or shown separately as
investment or nontrading asset. (2) Whether assessee has borrowed money to purchase and paid
interest thereon? Normally, money is borrowed to purchase goods
for the purpose of trade and not for investing in an asset for
retaining. (3) What is the frequency of such purchase and disposal in that
particular item? If purchase and sale are frequent, or there are
substantial transaction in that item, if would indicate trade.
Habitual dealing in that particular item is indicative of intention of
trade. Similarly, ratio between the purchases and sales and the
holdings may show whether the assessee is trading or investing
(high transactions and low holdings indicate trade whereas low
transactions and high holdings indicate investment). (4) Whether purchase and sale is for realizing profit or purchases
are made for retention and appreciation its value? Former will
indicate intention of trades and latter, an investment. In the case
of shares whether intention was to enjoy dividend and not merely
earn profit on sale and purchase of shares. A commercial motive
is an essential ingredient of trade. (5) How the value of the items has been taken in the balance
sheet? If the items in question are valued at cost, it would
indicate that they are investments or where they are valued at
cost or market value or net realizable value (whichever is less), it
will indicate that items in question are treated as stock-in-trade. (6) How the company (assessee) is authorized in memorandum of
association/articles of association? Whether for trade or for
investment? If authorized only for trade, then whether there are
separate resolutions of the board of directors to carry out
investments in that commodity? And vice verse. ITA No.3326 and 3440/Ahd/2009
 With 2 Others 12 7. It is for the assessee to adduce evidence to show that his
 holding is for investment or for trading and what distinction he
 has kept in the records or otherwise, between two types of
 holdings. If the assessee is able to discharge the primary onus
 and could prima facie show that particular item is held as
 investment (or say, stockin-trade) then onus would shift to
 Revenue to prove that apparent is not real. 8. The mere fact of credit of sale proceeds of shares ( or for that
 matter any other item in question) in a particular account or not
 so much frequency of sale and purchase will alone will not be
 sufficient to say that assessee was holding the shares (or the
 items in question) for investment. 9. One has to find out what are the legal requisites for dealing as
 a trader in the items in question and whether the assessee is
 complying with them. Whether it is the argument of the assessee
 that it is violating those legal requirements, if it is claimed that it
 is dealing as a trader in that item? Whether it had such an
 intention (to carry on illegal business in that item) since beginning
 or when purchases were made? 10. It is permissible as per CBDT's Circular No. 4 of 2007 of 15th
 June, 2007 that an assessee can have both portfolios, one for
 trading and other for investment provided it is maintaining
 separate account for each type, there are distinctive features for
 both and there is no intermingling of holdings in the two
 portfolios. 11. Not one or two factors out of above alone will be sufficient to
 come to a definite conclusion but the cumulative effect of several
 factors has to be seen." 11. The Hon'ble Gujarat High Court had also an occasion to consider
this issue in the case of Commissioner of Income Tax vs. Riva Sharkar A
Kothari reported in 283 ITR 338. Hon'ble court has made reference to
the test laid by it in its earlier decision rendered in the case of Pari
Mangaldas Girdhardas vs. CIT reported in 1977 CTR 647. These tests
read as under: matter of transaction was with the intention of dealing in the
 item, or with a view to finding an investment. If the transaction,
 since the inception, appears to be impressed with the character of
 a commercial transaction entered into with a view to earn profit, it
 would furnish a valuable guideline. (b) The second test that is often applied is as to why and how and
 for what purpose the sale was effected subsequently. (c) The third test, which is frequently applied, is as to how the
 assessee dealt with the subject-matter of transaction during the
 time the asset was the assessee. Has it been treated as stockin-
 trade, or has it been shown in the books of account and balance
 sheet as an investment. This inquiry, though relevant, is not
 conclusive. (d) The fourth test is as to how the assessee himself has returned
 the income from such activities and how the Department has
 dealt with the same in the course of preceding and succeeding
 assessments. This factor, though not conclusive, can afford good
 and cogent evidence to judge the nature of the transaction and
 would be a relevant circumstance to be considered in the absence
 of any satisfactory explanation. (e) The fifth test, normally applied in case of partnership firms
 and companies, is whether the deed of partnership or the
 memorandum of association, as the case may be, authorizes such
 an activity. (f) The last but not the least, rather the most important test, is as
 to the volume, frequency, continuity and regularity of transaction
 of purchase and sale of the goods concerned. In a case where
 there is repetition and continuity, coupled with the magnitude of
 the transaction, bearing reasonable proposition to the strength of
 holding then an inference can readily be drawn that the activity is
 in the nature of business. 12. In the light of the above tests, let us examine the facts of the
present case. It is not disputed that the assessee has borrowed funds
for making investment in shares. In other words, the assessee has its
own fund for purchase of shares. No doubt, there is a frequency of
transactions during the year, but, such frequency was there in the past
 ITA No.3326 and 3440/Ahd/2009
 With 2 Others 14 also when the assessee was treated as investor by the AO himself. In
the present year also, the CIT(A) has accepted the contentions of the
assessee with regard to the investment, which were not made through
Smt.Rupal Naresh Panchal and Sugandh Estate and Investment Pvt.Ltd.
In the accounts, the assessee has accounted investment in shares
under the head "investment" and not "stock-in-trade". Similarly, at the
end of the year, it has not valued the shares in the manner stock is
being valued i.e. at the cost or market price whichever is lower. It has
valued at cost. For the Asstt.Year 2005-06, the AO has accepted the
assessee as investor and assessed the surplus on sale of shares as
capital gain. The assessee had paid security transaction tax. In the
case of Sarnath Infrastructure Pvt.Ltd., 120 TTJ 216 as well as in the
case of Gopal Purohit, 35 DTR 52 (Bom), the Tribunal has observed that
if on purchase of shares they are transferred in the name of assessee,
then it would indicate that the assessee has no intention to deal in
shares. In the present case also, shares have been registered in the
name of assessee before sale. If the transactions are settled without
delivery, it can be presumed that it was a business activity of trading in
shares. That is not factum in the present case. Therefore, it emerges
out that there is no major variation in the facts and circumstances,
except, one considered by the ld.CIT(A) in para 8 and 8.1 of the
impugned order extracted supra. The ld.CIT(A) has recorded a finding
that the assessee-company has financed more than Rs.29 crores to
Smt.Rupal Naresh Panchal and Sugandh Estate and Investment Pvt.Ltd.
group with intention that this group would make multiple application in
the IPOs. of certain companies. The second reason assigned by the
CIT(A) is that the assessee did not take any kind of security from these
persons. We confronted the ld.DR to show any material possessed by
the AO for buttressing this reasoning. We failed to find out the basis of
recording this finding. If during the investigation carried out by the
SEBI or the Income Tax Department it emerges out that there is a
 ITA No.3326 and 3440/Ahd/2009
 With 2 Others 15 conspiracy between the assessee and Smt.Rupal Naresh Panchal and
Sugandh Estate and Investment Pvt.Ltd. for acquiring the shares in this
manner, then one can say that modus operandi was of a business
nature. During the course of hearing, we have confronted the ld.DR to
show us any evidence which can establish nexus between the assessee
and Smt.Rupal Naresh Panchal and Sugandh Estate and Investment
Pvt.Ltd. for acquiring the shares of five companies with this modus
operandi. The ld.counsel for the assessee has emphasized that mode
of acquisition would not be a factor to decide the nature of transaction.
Under this alleged modus operandi, at the most, the assessee could
procure large number of shares, but can that would change the
character of transaction from investment to trader. There is no
evidence with the Revenue to establish the nexus. The moment a cartel
is being formed by number of persons to carry out an activity in an
organized manner with profit motive and the activity is akin to business
or trade as defined in section 2(13) of the Income Tax Act, then the
arguments raised by the ld.counsel for the assessee would not stand.
But the AO has neither recorded statement of the assessee nor
collected any material which can demonstrate that the assessee has
colluded with Smt.Rupal Naresh Panchal and Sugandh Estate and
Investment Pvt.Ltd. in a manner that would indicate that shares were
acquired for the purpose of trade. Such nexus has not been
established. The observation of the CIT(A) is only inferential without
any concrete material in the possession of the AO. Therefore, in our
opinion, the activity of the assessee by virtue of mode of acquisition of
shares cannot be segregated into two parts. The ld.CIT(A) has erred in
creating an artificial distinction only on the basis of mode of acquisition.
We allow the appeal of the assessee and direct the AO to tax the
surplus on sale of shares under the head "short term capital/long term
capital instead of "business income" treated by him. Consequently, the
appeal of the Revenue is dismissed. ITA No.3326 and 3440/Ahd/2009
 With 2 Others 16 IT(SS)A.No.3/Ahd/2012 13. The facts have been discussed in the quantum appeal. The ld.AO
has initiated penalty proceedings under section 271(1)(c) of the Act.
He issued a show cause notice under section 274 r.w.s. section
271(1)(c) of the Act on 29.8.2008. The AO has observed that there
were three additions made to the income of the assessee, viz. short
term capital gain of Rs.7,64,52,057/- on sale of shares shown by the
assessee has been assessed as business income; (b) the assessee did
not add a sum of Rs.85,500/- which represented dividend stripping
amount, and (c) an addition of Rs.39,974/- was being made by the AO
on the ground that penalty on this amount was imposed by the National
Stock Exchange on the appellant and it was confirmed by the first
appellate authority. 14. The ld.CIT(A) has deleted the penalty by observing as under: 764,52,057. This income was assessed by the AO under the head
 of business income. The CIT (Appeal) after following the decision
 of ITAT, Ahmedabad in the Case of Sugamchand, held that if the
 shares are sold within 30 days from the date of its purchase, then
 the same should be taxed under the head of business income and
 if the shares are sold beyond 30 days from the date of its
 purchase, then it is to be taxed under the head of capital gains.
 The CIT (Appeal) also held that the shares purchased and sold to
 Rupal Panchal would also amount to business income. While
 giving the effect to the order of CIT(A) the AO computed the
 income under the Business head at Rs.416,74,781/-. In my
 considered view, the issue regarding the treatment of income
 from sale of shares is a highly debatable issue. In some cases,
 the income is held to be-assessable under the head of business,
 income whereas in some other cases it is assessable under the
 head of capital gains. Therefore, on such debatable issues,
 penalty under section 271(l)(c) cannot be levied, I therefore
 direct the AO to delete the penalty on the treatment of the income
 from the purchase and sale of shares." 15. As far as first issue is concerned, we have already upheld that
surplus on sale of shares is to be assessed as short term capital gain.
Therefore, there cannot be any question to visit the assessee with
penalty. Apart from above, we are of the view that the assessee has
disclosed all the facts fully and completely. There is no change in the
ultimate taxable income of the assessee. The AO has only changed the
head of income, i.e. the assessee has claimed the surplus on sale of
shares to be assessed under the head of capital gain. The AO has
assessed it under the head "Business Income". There cannot be any
allegation against the assessee for concealment of income or furnishing
inaccurate particulars to this extent. Thus, otherwise also no penalty on
the first is issue is imposable. 16. As far as rests of two amounts are concerned, we find that
ld.CIT(A) has assigned a plausible reasoning for deleting the penalty.
The assessee had made huge investment in shares. Some of the shares
might have been sold, and it failed to keep track that dividend might
 ITA No.3326 and 3440/Ahd/2009
 With 2 Others 18 have been declared. The CIT(A) has rightly observed that there was a
bona fide human error in non-inclusion of dividend stripping amounts.
As far as other ground is concerned, it is always a debatable issue
whether levy imposed by the National Stock Exchange was penalty in
nature or compensatory in nature. It was disallowed and not disputed
by the assessee, but that would not goad the AO to visit the assessee
with penalty. We do not find any merit in this appeal of the Revenue.
It is rejected. 17. As far as CO is concerned, the assessee did not press the CO,
hence, dismissed. 18. In the result, appeal of the assessee i.e. ITA No.3326/Ahd/2009 is
allowed. Rest of the appeals and CO are dismissed. Order pronounced in the Court on 17th March, 2015 at Ahmedabad.