G. Anantharaman
 

1.0 Background
 

1.1 Jermyn Capital LLC (hereinafter referred to as 'Jermyn LLC'), having its office at 111, Oud Metha Offices, P.O Box No. 103709, Dubai, is a limited liability company incorporated in the Emirate of Dubai under the provisions of the United Arab Emirates Federal Law. Jermyn LLC is registered with SEBI under SEBI (Foreign Institutional Investors) Regulations, 1995 (hereinafter referred to as 'FII Regulations') as foreign corporate sub-account (bearing sub-account code No. 2004859) of SEBI registered Foreign Institutional Investor Taib Bank E.C. (bearing FII Registration No. IN-UE-FA-0119-93-hereinafter referred to as 'Taib Bank'). The above sub-account had been granted registration by SEBI on July 2, 2004 under the Foreign Corporate category. 1.2 As per information available, at present Jermyn LLC has the following directors: 2.0 SEBI vide FII Division's communication dated November 30, 2005 addressed to Taib Bank had directed it to stop trading in the Indian securities market on behalf of its sub-account Jermyn LLC with immediate effect and until further notice. In the said communication, it was informed that SEBI was in receipt of credible information which indicated that Jermyn LLC did not meet the criteria for 'Fit and Proper person' which all registrants have to adhere to mandatorily through out the period of validity of their registration under the FII Regulations. Further, SEBI also sought certain information from Taib Bank as specified in the said communication. Taib Bank vide its letter dated December 6, 2005 and also Jermyn LLC vide its letter dated December 8, 2005 have furnished their reply to SEBI. Jermyn LLC in its said letter dated December 8, 2005 also requested SEBI to withdraw the 'stop trading order'. Simultaneously, Jermyn LLC also filed an appeal before the Hon'ble Securities Appellate Tribunal on December 13, 2005. The Hon'ble Securities Appellate tribunal vide order dated December 21, 2005 have directed SEBI to examine the material and information supplied by the appellant and pass a final order in the matter in accordance with law and place a copy of the said order on record on or before January 13, 2006. 3.0 SHOW CAUSE NOTICE
 

3.1 Pursuant to the above, a show-cause notice dated January 5, 2005 was issued to Jermyn LLC. 3.2 The show cause notice based on the facts and material narrated therein, inter-alia, alleges and sets out that: 4.1 Jermyn LLC was been given an opportunity of being heard by me which was communicated to it vide the aforesaid show cause notice. The said hearing was held on January 10, 2006 at 3.00 p.m. in SEBI office, Mittal Court, B-Wing, Nariman Point, Mumbai-400 021. Shri Pesi Modi, Advocate alongwith Shri Shuva Mandal, Shri Rohal Rajadhyaksha and Shri Jaitra Jani of AZB & Partners, Solicitors and Advocates appeared before me on behalf of Jermyn LLC. They handed over a copy of reply dated January 10, 2005 and made oral submission on behalf of Jermyn LLC reiterating the said reply. 5.0 Submissions of Jermyn LLC
 

5.1 The submissions made by Jermyn LLC in its reply dated January 10, 2006 and during the personal hearing held before me on January 10, 2006 are as under: 6.1 I have carefully considered the materials available on record, show cause notice issued to Jermyn LLC, the reply of Jermyn LLC and oral submissions made by their Advocates during the personal hearing held on January 10, 2006. 6.2 At the outset, before dealing with the objections raised by Jermyn LLC, it is to be highlighted that the putative averments made by Jermyn LLC with insuppressible volubility of self assertion in their submission and during hearing peters out to mere ipse dixit without any corroboration in material particulars on the strength of authentic proof, whereas SEBI's Show Cause Notice is based upon official verifiable data. 6.3 It is an admitted fact that Jermyn LLC is an associate of Jermyn Plc. Jermyn Plc is a corporate entity based in United Kingdom having its registered office at Devlin House, 36 St. George Street, Mayfair, London, WIS 2FW. Jermyn Plc is a limited liability company registered with Financial Services Authority, UK (FSA). Jermyn Plc is also a member of the London Stock Exchange since the year 2002. I have noted that Jermyn Plc is presently 100% owned by Mr. Hugh Hamilton Andrews. 6.4 Jermyn Plc was formerly known as Triumph Securities UK Plc which was ultimately a 100% subsidiary of Triumph International Finance (India) Ltd. (TIFIL). TIFIL had held 100% stake in Triumph Securities UK Plc through its Mauritius based subsidiary viz. International Holdings (Triumph) Ltd. TIFIL was a SEBI registered member of National Stock Exchange India Ltd. The board of the directors of TIFIL comprises of the following persons: Provided that the Board may for reasons to be recorded in writing, allow the applicant or the intermediary, to seek registration before the lapse of three years as specified in Clauses (d), (e) and (f). (g) the applicant or the intermediary, is financially not sound; (h) any other reason, to be recorded in writing by the Board, which in the opinion of the Board, renders such applicant or the intermediary, or its whole time director or managing partner unfit to operate in the capital market." 6.20 Jermyn LLC submitted that the Show Cause Notice was issued under Regulation 21 of FII Regulations, which prescribes the liability for action in case of default under SEBI (Procedure for Holding Enquiry by Enquiry Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002. Therefore, Jermyn LLC contented that the aforesaid Regulations shall be invoked and the violation has to be dealt under the said Regulations. I find no infirmity in proceeding under Section 11(4) and 11 B of SEBI Act, 1992 as Enquiry Regulations can be invoked, if necessary on the completion of a detailed investigation in the matter. There cannot be any doubt about the availability of such powers with SEBI in view of the series of judgements passed by the Hon'ble High Courts. A regulatory agency like SEBI, entrusted with the duty to protect the interest of its investors must have the capacity to move quickly to curb further mischief and to take action that, in its opinion, is necessary to instill and maintain public confidence in the integrity of capital markets. The proposed direction is not by way of punishment or penalty but only by way of emergency measure, pending detailed investigation into the whole matter. 6.21 Urgency of the matter or public interest at times require flexibility in application of the rule as the circumstances of the case and the nature of the matter require to be dealt may serve the interests of justice by putting temporary restrictions on the rights of market participants in the overall interest of the market and the investors. It has to be kept in mind that SEBI is vested with statutory powers to regulate securities market with the object of ensuring investors protection, orderly and healthy growth of securities market so as to make SEBI's regulatory function over the capital market effective and meaningful. Further, in view of clear provisions of Section 11(4) read with Section 11B of SEBI Act and in light of series of judgments of various High Courts, there can be no doubt that SEBI, in view of the exigencies of the matter has power to pass appropriate orders. For a prima facie case, it is necessary that the information which is available with the authority is more than a mere rumor, gossip or hunch and should be specific information, rather than vague information. The opinion has to be formed in a subjective manner on which a reasonable and prudent person would act. Further, in this case the requisite information has come to the notice of SEBI only recently. 6.22 In view of the above I am of the view that the case laws presented by the learned counsel has no application in the context of the instant matter and finds that this is a fit case to invoke Section 11(4) and 11B of the SEBI Act, 1992 and pass the following order in view of the exigencies of the matter in the facts and circumstances set forth above. 6.23 The purpose of this order as directed by SAT is to determine whether Jermyn LLC is a fit and proper person on the basis of details furnished by them. Definitely such a determination becomes very vital and imperative lest the Indian securities market should be exposed to the shenanigans of persons/ entities tainted in the market scam and the fall out thereafter which is being probed by various agencies in India. It is the felt concern of the regulator to ring_fence and insulate the Indian securities market from such entities whose bonafides are suspect in this country, though they might have misrepresented the factual position to the foreign regulator for getting certain approvals. As would be evident from the precursor developments leading to the present order, SEBI was directed to pass the present order within a short span of time. Though every effort has been made to collect information and give opportunity, the nature of enquiry by itself is vast, not confined within the domain of SEBI, but encompassing other enforcement agencies who are simultaneously probing the conduct of Shri Dharmesh Doshi and related entities during the market scam and thereafter. In that view of the matter, SEBI has endeavored to collect all material details that are available and relevant for the purpose of finalizing this order, in deference to SAT directions within a short span of time. However, it needs to be mentioned that investigations by other agencies are still progressing and it may take some time before further material facts and other incriminating details bearing upon the case are unraveled for necessary action. Having regard to the complex nature of the case wherein the dominant players are outside India beyond the jurisdiction of SEBI and also taking into account the ongoing investigation by various agencies in co-ordination with related foreign copuunterparts, SEBI is in constant liaison with these agencies to update the case for appropriate action. Pending that, which is likely to take time and for the purpose of this order, SEBI is taking a prima facie view of the material developments bearing upon the case, keenly alive to the sensitivities of the market environment, so that the integrity of the market is in no way impaired by any entity of doubtful and dubious antecedents. 6.24 Regulation 3 of SEBI (Criteria For Fit And Proper Person) Regulations 2004 in Clauses (1) and (2) enumerates the various attributes which would render a person fit and proper. The criteria as spelt out in Regulation 3(1) is an inclusive one and not limited to whatever that has been enumerated therein. Similarly under 3(2) which defines negatively as to who will not be considered as fit and proper person for the purpose of grant/ renewal of certificate to act as intermediary covers a number of negative qualifications including a residuary Sub-clause (h) which leaves the judgment to the Board to be recorded in writing on the basis of any other reason not specifically mentioned earlier. 6.25 In the course of hearing, the learned counsel contended that the attributes mentioned under Regulation 3(1) would not be relevant in the context of Regulation 3(2) which is for renewal. I find such a distinction to be a case of pure petti-foggery. If a person does not have any of the qualities as mentioned in the inclusive definition of 3(1) at the time of renewal, then it would make a travesty of those requirements which in my view are applicable in all circumstances. Everybody would agree that good reputation and character, competence etc would be required for registration and thereafter and therefore to suggest that they would be one_time requirement at the entry level makes a mockery of what is expected of a fit and proper person, at all times. 6.26 The residual clause in (h) prescribing any other reason to deem an intermediary as not fit to operate in capital market is really of an omnibus nature, but has to be definitely hedged in within the representative range of qualities that are expected under Regulation 3(1) and the disqualification cited in Regulation 3(2) including the omnibus Clause (h). Further it is not to be lost sight of that Regulation 3(1) contains an inclusive definition and accordingly it empowers the Board to prescribe all other qualities/ requirements that would make the person fit and proper. Accordingly the determination of fit and proper person would be guided by 3(1) and 3(2) and would not be limited to what is sought to be canvassed by the learned counsel, so long as the parameters applied are in line with the inclusive definition and disqualification as appearing in Regulation 3 . 6.27 The determination of fit and proper person so evaluated on a scale as above, definitely involves subjectivity; for example good reputation and character depends upon the standing of person in society and his associations as well. It is also an acknowledged fact that reputational risk may be direct as well as in direct arising from a conduct with the related party but having a bearing on the person concerned. Several such instances can be multiplied but suffice it to say that the entire exercise would depend upon an over-all appraisal of the material circumstances bearing upon the entity directly or indirectly. 6.28 In the instant case there is an overwhelming burden of material evidence to strongly indicate that Jermyn LLC being an associate of Jermyn PLC under the common Chairman is very much under the control of Jermyn PLC. Further in a case like this, the decision would rest only on what is probable in the materiality of circumstances, rather than on strict proof. For instance in the case of smuggling, no direct evidence of illicit importation of the goods can be adduced, as the same would be impossible, but there would be several circumstances of probable character which coupled with the inference arising from the conduct of the parties which could lead to the conclusion that the seized articles are smuggled goods. In this connection attention is invited to Supreme Court decision in Collector of Customs v. D. Bhoormull , wherein the Hon'ble Supreme Court (AIR 1974 SC 859) held that : This order shall come into force with immediate effect.