V.K. Chopra, Member 1. Shalibhadra Infosec Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as "SIL") was incorporated on April 25, 1994 as a private limited company. It became a public limited company in January 1995. The Directors of SIL as on June 12, 2002 were Raju B. Shah (Chairman), Jitendra R. Doshi, Santosh Gayakwad and Mukesh Vadecha. On January 16, 2002 the company acquired 10,00,000 shares of M/s. Jaisha Holdings Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as "JHL") and in return issued 3,00,00,000 equity shares of Rs. 10 each of SIL at par on preferential basis to the shareholders of JHL (swap ratio - 30:1). 2. While the issued capital of SIL is 3,50,00,500 shares, only 50,00,500 shares of SIL are listed on the Stock Exchange, Mumbai ("BSE"), Ahmedabad and Vadodara Stock Exchanges. The shares issued on a preferential basis to shareholders of JHL were not listed. Since SIL did not respond to the various Show Cause Notices issued by the BSE on January 9, 2003 it's application for listing 3,00,00,000 shares issued on a preferential basis was rejected by the BSE. Nevertheless, SIL proceeded to dematerialize the 3,00,00,000 unlisted shares issued on a preferential basis, without obtaining in-principle approval from the stock exchange. NSDL vide its letter dated December 17, 2002 informed BSE that the company had dematerialized unlisted shares without taking in-principle approval from the Exchange. The scrip had been transferred to trading and settlement on a trade-to-trade basis w.e.f. July 15, 2002 and finally trading in the scrip was suspended by the BSE with effect from January 13, 2003 since SIL had dematerialized unlisted shares without obtaining approval from the Exchange. 3. SIL published a series of advertisements regarding a proposed buyback of 10% of the share capital (3.5 million shares) of SIL at Rs. 10 per share which were published in Business Standard (on 19.6.02), Financial Express (on 19.6.02), Business Line (on 20.6.02), The Economic Times (on 19.6.02 & 24.6.02) and Bombay Samachar (on 20.6.02). The advertisement stated that the Board of Directors of SIL would meet on July 1, 2002 to consider the abovementioned buyback. The Board of Directors met on July 1, 2002 and decided not to go for the buyback without assigning any reasons whatsoever. However, no advertisement with respect to discarding the buyback proposal was issued. 4. SIL, along with its Chairman, Directors and Manager, is charged with having issued misleading and unsubstantiated advertisements regarding buyback of shares, when the company was not performing well with a view to create investor interest in the scrip. The results for the quarter ended June 2002 showed a net profit of as less as Rs. 0.48 million on sales of only Rs. 1.22 million. Having regard to the financial performance of the company, SIL just did not have sufficient resources to meet the buyback obligations. Besides the Rs. 35 million required for the buyback it would have had to spend a considerable amount on merchant banking charges, printing and distribution of offer documents etc. As discussed subsequently in para. 21 of this Order, the Board of Directors itself admitted that SIL did not have adequate reserves to carry out the buyback and that the Articles of Association do not provide for the same. Even the findings of the independent Chartered Accountant appointed by the BSE (discussed in para. 7 of this Order) lead to the conclusion that SIL had no funds for the buyback. The SCN alleges that SIL violated Regulation 5(1) of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices Relating to Securities Market) Regulations, 1995 (hereinafter referred to as the 'FUTP Regulations') by issuing a misguiding advertisement about proposed buy-back of shares by the company, although the company did not fulfil the statutory requirements regarding buyback of shares. 5. While declaring results for the Quarter ended March 31, 2002 SIL stated, inter alia, the following: 6. The aforesaid "confirmed" export order was not executed. The cancellation of the order and reasons for non-payment of dividend were not adequately disclosed in the Annual Report or information given to the BSE. Although much hype was created on announcements relating to the company's diversification into media and biotechnology sectors, it did not materialize. This is what is also seen in the case of the buyback announcements mentioned earlier. No efforts were made to disclose to the stock exchanges or investors at large the fact that these announcements had not materialized. 7. For valuation of JHL, SIL valued goodwill at Rs. 30 crores. The valuation report was prepared by Chartered Accountants M/s. Ingit C. Modi and Associates. BSE did not allow listing of the 3 crore preferential shares as it found from JHL's balance sheet that there was no justification for such valuation. The BSE appointed independent Chartered Accountants to verify the fairness of the valuation of JHL. The Chartered Accountants appointed by the BSE reported that the sales estimates made by JHL for the next five years were not feasible since JHL had not generated any revenues during 2001-02, income from operations was nil and software products on whose strength the projections were made were under development as on the date of valuation. It reported that there was no justification for the projected values and it was not possible to assign any value to the goodwill of JHL. 8. During April 2002 (before the issuance of the advertisements on the proposed buyback of shares in June and after the company had issued an additional 3 crore equity shares on preferential basis in January 2002) the Chairman of SIL (Shri Raju B. Shah) and the Manager of SIL (Shri Atul B. Shah) who is also the brother of Raju Shah acquired more than 94 lakh shares of SIL in off-market deals, at a time when only around 50 lakh shares of SIL were listed. The shares of SIL were offloaded in the market by promoters and entities related to promoters, in the process creating artificial volumes in the scrip of SIL. Raju Shah and his brother Atul Shah and other promoter-associated entities have allegedly off-loaded more than one crore unlisted shares of SIL through the entities M/s. Parshwa Finance, Shri Tushar Jhaveri, Ms. Harsha Jhaveri, Shri Pankaj Patel, Shri Vinod Desai, Shri Mahesh Shah, Shri Ashit Vora, Shri Maulik Patwa and Shri Mukesh Vadecha in the secondary market to the gullible and unsuspecting public. 9. Details of off-market transactions of Raju Shah and Atul Shah show that during April 2002 these two brothers acquired 94,45,000 shares (26.99% of voting capital) from 11 different entities including Vinod Ambalal Shah, who was allotted 270,000 shares in the preferential allotment in January 2002, and transferred all the allotted shares on April 6, 2002 to Atul Shah. The demat accounts of Raju Shah and Atul Shah were credited indirectly with the preferential allotment shares routed through various other entities such as Tushar Jhaveri, Orbit, Jay Shah, Jagdish Savaji etc. For instance, Orbit Securities was transferred 24,93,000 shares of SIL on April 12, 2002 from Kirit Mehta and Mehul Panchighar and it transferred all these shares to the joint account of Tushar Jhaveri /Maulik Patwa the next day. Tushar Jhaveri/Maulik Patwa transferred 21,18,000 SIL shares to Raju Shah and Atul Shah in separate transactions on June 12, 2002. From the off-market transactions of Tushar Jhaveri and related entities it was known that Jay Shah bought 15,50,000 shares of SIL from Mukesh Vadecha (a Director of SIL and noticee in the instant case) on April 12, 2002 and transferred 45,86,000 of these shares to the joint account of Tushar Jhaveri/Vinod Desai on April 15, 2002. Chauhan Jagdish Savaji transferred 34,60,000 shares of SIL to Raju B. Shah/Tushar Jhaveri on April 13, 2002. On June 12, 2002 Rajesh Bachubhai Shah/Tushar Jhaveri transferred all these shares in separate transactions to Atul Shah (14,60,000 shares), Vinod Desai (10,00,000 shares) and Raju Shah (10,00,000 shares). 10. Large quantities of shares were then transferred by Atul Shah and Raju Shah to their other joint demat accounts with certain other entities and to other persons acting in concert like Piyush Jhaveri and Maheshbhai Shah. The latter offloaded these unlisted shares into the secondary market through brokers. During May 2002 Raju Shah and Atul Shah transferred 5.45 lakh shares to Piyush Jhaveri and 5 lakh shares to Shah Maheshbhai M. Piyush Jhaveri in turn, off-loaded these shares through 2 brokers viz., P Suryakant Share & Stock Brokers Pvt. Ltd. & FMS Securities Ltd, as settlement obligations for Settlement Nos. 28, 32, 36, 38, 39 & 43. Shah Maheshbhai M, in turn transferred the aforesaid 5 lakh shares to Parklight Invt. Pvt. Ltd, as part of its settlement obligations for settlement nos. 33 & 36 (noticed from demat account no. 10006362 of Mahesh Shah). The brokers delivered these shares in the market on behalf of entities like Vinod Desai, Shah Maheshbhai, Pankaj C Patel and Mukesh Gajjar. The persons acting in concert include - Tushar Jhaveri, Atulbhai Bachubhai Shah, Rajesh Bachubhai Shah, Vinodbhai N Desai, Maulik Prafulchandra Patva & Mukesh Bachubhai Vadecha. 11. A diagrammatic representation of the flow of securities through Raju Shah, Atul Shah and others as discussed above is as under: 12. The price of the scrip of SIL fell from Rs. 1.20 (opening price on June 3, 2002) to Rs. 0.50 (closing price on August 30, 2002). High percentages of traded volumes to total listed shares were also observed during the said period, with high variation in the volume of shares traded on certain days as compared to other days. SEBI initiated a formal investigation vide order dated September 11, 2002 for the period May 1, 2002 to July 31, 2002. 13. Show Cause Notices (hereinafter referred to as SCNs) dated February 9, 2005 were issued to SIL, Shri Raju Shah, Shri Santosh Gayakwad, Shri Mukesh Vadecha, Shri Atul Shah, Shri Vinod Desai, Harsha Jhaveri, Pankaj Patel, Mahesh Shah, Ashit Vora, Tushar Jhaveri and Maulik Patwa (hereinafter collectively referred to as the 'Noticees'). Santosh Gayakwad, Mukesh Vadecha, Ashit Vora, Pankaj Patel and Maulik Patwa submitted interim replies and sought inspection of documents. Vide letter dated June 7, 2006 the Noticees were given an opportunity for inspection of documents on June 21, 2006 but none of them availed the same. Further opportunities for inspection were given vide letters dated June 30, 2006 and September 14, 2006 but these were also not availed despite a reminder dated October 20, 2006. Opportunity for hearing was granted to Mukesh Vadecha, Santosh Gayakwad, Pankaj Patel, Ashit Vora and Maulik Patwa on March 29, 2007 , April 23, 2007 and May 9, 2007. On May 9, 2007 all entities except Pankaj Patel appeared. 14. Mahesh Shah, Tushar Jhaveri, and Vinod Desai did not reply to the SCN despite reminders. Opportunity of hearing was afforded to these persons on August 8, 2007 but none of them availed the same. 15. Atul Shah, Raju Shah, Shalibhadra Infosec Ltd. and Harsha Jhaveri have applied for consent (in terms of SEBI Circular EFD/ED/Circular 1/2007 dated 20.04.2007) vide Application Nos. 39/2007 (dated July 17, 2007), 34/2007, 168/2007 and 124/2007 respectively for the SCN dated February 9, 2005. 16. In the instant case SIL along with its Chairman, Directors and its Manager Atul Shah (who is the brother of the Chairman of SIL, Raju Shah) is alleged to have disseminated false and misleading information with a view to induce and sustain artificial demand in the scrip of the company, such that they would be able to off-load their shares in the company to the unsuspecting public which is further supplemented by irregular allotment and dematerialization of unlisted shares of SIL. 17. The Directors of SIL namely Shri Mukesh Vadecha and Santosh Gayakwad, were charged for violation of the following Regulations/Circulars: 18. The relevant provisions are reproduced below: Regulation 6 (a) of SEBI (FUTP) Regulations, 1995: 19. SIL and its Directors issued an advertisement proclaiming that the company would consider a proposal to buyback 10% of the share capital of the company at Rs. 10 per share, and informed the stock exchanges to disseminate through their notice boards, information which is misleading in several material particulars. The terms used in the advertisements such as "Development, Achievement & Growth" are grossly misleading and the graph depicted in the advertisement exhibiting a consistent record of profits by the company is false. Such an advertisement is likely to induce purchase of securities of the company by gullible investors especially since the market price at the time of advertisement was Re. 1 and the proposed buyback price was Rs. 10. The hype created in the media with advertisements released in different leading newspapers and the announcements regarding huge export orders and diversification plans etc. had provided the much needed trigger to the otherwise dormant scrip which was languishing at Re. 1/level. As expected there was immense activity in the scrip pursuant to these advertisements in terms of number of shares traded and the prices. 20. The company had a total staff strength of thirteen, of which one only one staff is stated to be a software engineer, yet claims were made by SIL and its Directors that SIL is to diversify into technology-intensive areas like software. 21. The buy back proposal was claimed to have been rejected by the Board of Directors of SIL based on a legal opinion by their in-house legal counsel that the Articles of Association of the company did not provide for the same and that SIL did not have adequate reserves for the same. This is basic information which ought to be verified by the Directors before it decides to go for a buyback of shares to ensure that the company has the necessary financial strength to meet the obligations that would arise on account of the proposal and as to whether the company complies with Section 77A of the Companies Act, 1956 to meet its requirements. Despite this a series of advertisements was published luring the gullible public. 22. Apart from the provisions discussed above which have allegedly been violated by Santosh Gayakwad and Mukesh Bachubhai Vadecha (Directors of SIL during the relevant period) Mukesh Bachubhai Vadecha has also been charged for violation of Regulations 3 and 4(b) of the SEBI (FUTP) Regulations, 1995, Regulation 10 of the Takeover Regulations, and Regulation 13 (3) of the SEBI (Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 as amended in 2003. 23. These additional charges are discussed and the provisions are reproduced below: (b) indulge in any act, which is calculated to create a false or misleading ppearance of trading on the securities market; Regulation 10 of Takeover Regulations, 1997 states as follows: 24. Mukesh Vadecha vide letter dated dated July 5, 2005 submitted his reply to the Show Cause Notice. Santosh Gayakwad submitted his reply vide letter dated June 29, 2005. 25. The off-market transfers of shares of SIL of Mukesh Bachubhai Vadecha in the scrip of SIL during the relevant period are as under: 26. Mukesh Bachubhai Vadecha met the delivery obligations of Harsha Jhaveri, Pankaj C Patel and Shah Maheshbhai through sub-brokers Piyush Jhaveri and Jyotish Bhogilal. By virtue of being a director of SIL, he is reasonably expected to know about the unlisted nature of the shares and yet introduced these unlisted shares through Piyush Jhaveri & Jyotish Bhogilal into the market. Mukesh Vadecha being the Director of SIL alongwith the Chairman, Manager and other promoter-related entities offloaded unlisted shares of SIL in the secondary market to unsuspecting investors in violation of Regulations 3, 4(b), 5(1) and 6(a) of the SEBI (FUTP) Regulations, 1995. 27. The phone number provided by Mukesh Vadecha for his demat account as observed from his NSDL records is registered in the name of Chauhan Ashokbhai Chinubhai and is in common with Raju B. Shah (Chairman of SIL). In the instant case, it was found that Mukesh Vadecha along with persons acting in concert with him (namely, Shri Raju Shah - Chairman of SIL, Shri Atul Shah - brother of Raju Shah, Shri Tushar Jhaveri, Shri Maulik Patwa and Shri Vinod Desai) acquired the shares of the company in excess of the stipulated limits (as detailed subsequently in paras. 41 -44 of this Order) without disclosing to the company and the stock exchanges and without making a public offer in accordance with the Takeover Regulations. 28. Santosh Gayakwad and Mukesh Vadecha (Directors of SIL) in their replies dated June 29, 2005 and July 5, 2005 contend that an independent Chartered Accountant prepared the valuation report and recommended the swap ratio. They argued that if SIL itself cannot be held guilty of fraud, no Director or Manager of SIL can be found guilty. As already discussed earlier the swap ratio of 30:1 based on valuation of goodwill at 30 crores of a company which had no creditable track record is irrelevant as found subsequently by BSE appointed Auditors. However, it maybe noted that action was initiated separately against SIL vide SCN's dated February 9, 2005 and June 12, 2006, and the Directors of the company. In response to the charge of violating SEBI Circular SMDRP/POLICY/CIR-15/2001 dated 08.03.2001 on obtaining in-principle approval of exchanges for listing before issuing any further shares it was submitted that SIL had obtained listing permission from VSE on 22.01.2002 and from ASE on 22.03.2002 and that it had admittedly made the allotments while the application with the BSE was still pending. Mere submission of Application to the BSE is not sufficient. Obtaining in-principle approval from the stock exchange is a condition precedent before issuance of any further shares. Clearly this has not been complied with which is a serious violation. The problem is further compounded because the dematerialised shares are fungible in electronic form and cannot be differentiated. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in Rishyashringa Jewellery Ltd. v. The Stock Exchange, Bombay and Others held that where a company claims in its prospectus that applications for listing have been made in more than one stock exchange, allotment made in pursuance of the prospectus would be valid only if permission from all such exchanges has been obtained within the prescribed period. There is no reason to deviate from this principle laid down by the Supreme Court merely because it is a case of further issue of shares and not an Initial Public Offer (IPO). 29. It has been admitted by both Mukesh Vadecha and Santosh Gayakwad (Directors of SIL) that there was a delay in communicating the decision of the Board of Directors to the Stock Exchanges, in violation of Clause 20 (c) of the Listing Agreement incorporating amendments brought about by SEBI Circular SMD/POLICY/CIR-1/02 dated 02.01.2002 on the issue of informing Stock Exchanges with respect to the decision of the Board of Directors not to proceed with buyback. 30. It is thus found that SIL and its Directors have fraudulently disseminated false and misleading information regarding the proposal to consider buyback of shares of SIL at a price of Rs. 10 per share as against the then market price of Re. 1 per share to generate investor interest and later did not disseminate the information regarding rejection of the proposal. The Directors of the company cannot claim to be ignorant of such an elementary matter as the need for the Articles of Association of the company to allow buyback of shares by the company, especially when their actions have the potential to mislead several thousand genuine investors. Various claims made in the advertisement regarding the richness of its intellectual capital ("fuelled with brain") and technological prowess are patently false. The advertisement and other information disseminated by the company regarding its performance and profits have been examined by an independent Chartered Accountant and found to be false and misleading and BSE did not grant approval for further listing but the company dematerialized these shares. 31. Santosh Gayakwad and Mukesh Vadecha have violated the provisions of the SEBI (FUTP) Regulations and the SEBI Circulars mentioned and discussed in the preceding paragraphs. In addition, Mukesh Vadecha has violated Regulations 3 and 4 (b) of the FUTP Regulations, Regulation 10 of the Takeover Regulations by acquiring shares (alongwith persons acting in concert) of SIL in excess of 15% without making any public announcement in accordance with the Takeover Regulations, and Regulation 13 (3) of the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 as amended in 2003 by not disclosing changes in shareholding in excess of 5% of the shares of SIL and changes in his shareholding in excess of 2% of the total shareholding/voting rights of SIL 32. I now proceed to discuss the charges leveled against Maulik Patwa, Tushar Jhaveri, Vinod Desai, Pankaj Patel, Mahesh Shah and Ashit Vora who have allegedly acted in concert to acquire and offload unlisted shares of SIL in the secondary market. Maulik Patwa has allegedly acted in concert with persons associated with the Chairman and Manager of SIL, namely the brothers Raju Shah and Atul Shah to offload unlisted shares of SIL in the secondary market to the unsuspecting investors. Vide SCN dated February 9, 2005 Shri Maulik Patwa has been charged with violation of:- (1) Regulations 3 and 6(a) of the SEBI (FUTP) Regulations, 1995, (2) Regulation 10 of the SEBI Takeover Regulations, 1997 and (3) Regulation 13 (3) of the SEBI (Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002. 33. Maulik Prafulchandra Patwa has a joint demat account (IN 301485 - 10039709) with Tushar S. Jhaveri. The address on this joint demat account also appears on the joint demat account of Tushar Jhaveri with Raju B.Shah (the Chairman of SIL). Maulik Patwa has a common phone number in the joint demat account with Pankaj C. Patel (another Noticee). There are joint demat accounts connecting Tushar Jhaveri , Raju Shah, Atul Shah, Vinod Desai and Maulik Patwa. From a perusal of the securities flow between Maulik Patwa and others it is clear that the former dealt in huge quantities of shares of SIL between April 12, 2002 and June 12, 2002, buying and selling a substantial quantity of shares of SIL in association with related entities, through joint demat accounts with the other Noticees as detailed earlier. 34. The movement of shares of SIL in the account of Maulik Patwa is as below: ORDER 
 

Now, therefore, in exercise of powers under Section 11B read with Section 11(4) of the SEBI Act, 1992 and Regulation 11 of the SEBI (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade practices relating to securities market) Regulations, 2003 I hereby restrain Ashit Vora (PAN No. ACJPV1280C), Mahesh Shah and Pankaj Patel from accessing the securities market, buying, selling or dealing in securities or associating with the securities market in any manner whatsoever for a period of one year. Since Ashit Vora has already been restrained from accessing the securities market and prohibited from buying, selling or otherwise dealing or associating with the securities market in any manner for a period of two years, vide SEBI Order dated February 18, 2008, the present Order restraining Ashit Vora from buying, selling or dealing in securities for a period of one year will run concurrently. Vinod Desai, Tushar Jhaveri (PAN No. AACPZ7827J) and Maulik Patwa (PAN No. AGAPP4919R) are also hereby restrained from accessing the securities market, buying, selling or dealing in securities or associating with the securities market in any manner whatsoever for a period of one year. Since Tushar Jhaveri and Maulik Patwa were earlier restrained from accessing the securities market and prohibited from buying, selling or otherwise dealing or associating with the securities market in any manner for a period of two years, vide SEBI Orders dated February 19, 2008 and February 18, 2008 respectively, the present Order restraining Tushar Jhaveri and Maulik Patwa from buying, selling or dealing in securities for a period of one year will run concurrently. Santosh Gayakwad and Mukesh Bachubhai Vadecha are hereby restrained from accessing the securities market buying, selling or dealing in securities or associating with the securities market in any manner whatsoever for a period of two years since being Directors of Shalibhadra Infosec Ltd. they have acted in breach of their obligations to the company and its shareholders, besides violating SEBI (Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 as discussed, the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997 and non-compliance with the SEBI Circulars SMD/POLICY/CIR-1/02 dated 02.01.2002 and SMDRP/POLICY/CIR-15/2001 dated 08.03.2001. Since Mukesh Bachubhai Vadecha had already been restrained from accessing the securities market and prohibited from buying, selling or otherwise dealing or associating with the securities market in any manner for a period of two years vide SEBI Order dated February 18, 2008, the present Order restraining Mukesh Vadecha from buying, selling or dealing in securities for a period of two years will run concurrently. This Order will come into force with immediate effect. 1 Atulbhai Bachubhai Shah, Rajesh Bachubhai Shah, Vinodbhai N Desai, Maulik Prafulchandra Patva & Mukesh Bachubhai Vadecha are the Persons Acting in Concert ('PAC's) since they are connected through a series of Joint Demat Accounts.