1. This is a suit filed by plaintiff against the
 defendants for injunction and recovery of
 Rs.7,90,000/-. 2. The brief facts as per plaint are that the plaintiff
 is the mother of the deceased Sh. Himanshu
 Dhankard, who unfortunately expired at a young age
 of 24 years in the intervening night of 25-26/10/2016
 at Kalga, Distt Kullu, Himachal Pradesh. 3. It is further averred that the son of the plaintiff
 namely, Sh. Himanshu Dhankard, had purchased a
 Maruti Swift car bearing registration no. DL 3CCK
 1621 on 19.10.2015 from M/s. T. R. Sawhney
 Motors Pvt. Ltd. for a total sale consideration of
 Rs.6,01,273/-, out of which amount a sum of
 Rs.5,24,251/- was got financed from the defendant
 No.1 Bank and the said car was also got insured
 from the defendant No. 2, vide cover note bearing
 No. 006600967305 dated 19.10.2015. 4. It is further averred that while availing the
 finance facility from the defendant No. 1, the
 officials of the defendant No. 1 Bank as well as the
 defendant No. 2 insurance company also proposed Geeta Devi Vs. HDFC Bank . Page: 2/54
 another General Insurance Policy to the son of the
 Plaintiff by the name of Sarv Suraksha Plus and
 represented to the son of the plaintiff that the said
 policy shall cover any outstanding liability in respect
 of the auto loan facility availed by him in the event
 of his unfortunate demise during the tenure of the
 loan facility. It is further averred that it was also
 represented that under the said General Insurance
 Policy, apart from the aforestated benefits, his
 nominee shall also be paid a sum of Rs.5,00,000/- in
 the event of death of insured apart from some other
 benefits and that it was further represented that the
 premium towards the said policy shall also be added
 and adjusted in the loan amount being availed by
 him from the defendant No. 1 Bank. 5. It is further averred that on such representations
 of the officials of the defendant No. 1 Bank and the
 defendant No.2 insurance company, the son of the
 plaintiff agreed to purchase the said policy and was
 issued the Policy Schedule, certificate of Sarv
 Suraksha Plus Policy bearing policy No. 2950 2012
 1268 1200 000 by the defendant No. 2 Insurance
 company which was valid from midnight of
 23.10.2015 to 22.10.2020 and received the same by
 post. It is further averred that alongwith the said
 policy schedule, no other annexure or any terms and Geeta Devi Vs. HDFC Bank . Page: 3/54
 conditions of the said policy were sent by the
 defendant No. 2 company to the son of the plaintiff. 6. It is further averred that during the subsistence
 of the aforestated loan tenure being availed from the
 defendant No. 1 Bank and during the subsistence of
 the aforesaid Sarv Suraksha Plus insurance policy
 issued by the defendant No. 2, the son of the plaintiff
 alongwith one of his friends namely Sh. Deepak
 Pawar on 23.10.2016 went for trekking in the hill
 station of Parvati Valley, Himachal Pradesh. 7. It is further averred that in the early morning of
 26.10.2016, the husband of the plaintiff received a
 phone call from Sh. Deepak Pawar i.e. the friend of
 the son of the Plaintiff, informing that their son Sh.
 Himanshu Dhankard had unfortunately died in the
 night on account of heart attack / cardiac arrest /
 heart failure and was not given even primary
 medical assistance as it was a remote area of Kalga
 Village of the Parvati Valley in Himachal Pradesh. 8. It is further averred that the husband of the
 plaintiff Sh. Lalit Dhankard alongwith his brother
 Sh. Amit Dhankard immediately left and upon
 reaching, expressed their displeasure with the local Geeta Devi Vs. HDFC Bank . Page: 4/54
 authorities including the police officials about the
 lack of basic and emergency medical facilities in the
 area, which if available could have prevented the
 untimely demise of their child Sh. Himanshu
 Dhankard and that after expressing their grievances,
 the husband of the plaintiff received the dead body
 of their deceased son from the local police officials
 and brought his dead body and performed his last
 rites at Delhi on 27.10.2016. 9. It is further averred that the husband of the
 plaintiff vide letter dated 01.11.2016 informed the
 defendant No. 1 Bank about the unfortunate demise
 of Sh. Himanshu Dhankard. 10. It is further averred that the defendant No. 2
 thereafter, registered the claim as claim No.
 C295016007365 and issued their letter dated
 03.11.2016 calling upon the plaintiff to submit the
 documents for the processing of the claim, which
 was also followed up by another letter dated
 21.11.2016. 11. It is further averred that the plaintiff thereafter
 collected all the relevant documents such as police
 report, postmortem report, death certificate of late
 Sh. Himanshu Dhankard from the local police from Geeta Devi Vs. HDFC Bank . Page: 5/54
 PS Kullu and submitted the same with the surveyor /
 investigator of the defendant No. 2 company
 alongwith claim and copy of the insurance policy
 and other ID proofs. 12. It is further averred that the defendant No. 2 vide
 its letter dated 09.12.2016 repudiated the insurance
 claim of the plaintiff, under the policy bearing no.
 2950201212681200000 under the heading critical
 illness by stating that Late Sh. Himanshu Dhankard
 died due to alcoholic liver disease, and same was
 allegedly not covered under the critical illness
 section of the policy. 13. It is further averred that from the bare perusal of
 the repudiation letter dated 09.12.2016 it is apparent
 that the same has been got issued by the defendant
 No. 2 company without any due application of mind
 as the plaintiff or her husband had never preferred
 any claim under the policy in question towards the
 alleged treatment of their son Late Sh. Himanshu
 Dhankard under any critical illness cover and it is
 therefore apparent that the alleged repudiation of the
 claim was manipulated by the officials of the
 defendants with the malafide intentions of not
 honoring the death claim submitted with the
 defendant No. 2 on account of the unfortunate Geeta Devi Vs. HDFC Bank . Page: 6/54
 demise of their son. 14. It is further averred that the son of the plaintiff
 namely Sh. Himanshu Dhankard was neither
 suffered from alleged alcohol liver disease nor was
 suffering from any internal bleeding and the
 postmortem report dated 26.10.2016 of Late Sh.
 Himanshu Dhankard also did not conclusively state
 that his death had occurred on account of the alleged
 alcohol liver disease. It is further averred that the son
 of the plaintiff was only 24 year of age and was hale
 and hearty and was not an alcoholic and therefore,
 there was no occasion for him to be suffering from
 the alleged alcoholic liver disease. 15. It is further averred that since there is a history of
 heart disease in the entire family, therefore in
 abundant caution the plaintiff had been getting her
 son medically examined on regular basis and the last
 examination was got conducted on 16.06.2016 and
 all his tests results except cholesterol levels were
 within the prescribed parameters and the results of
 the tests i.e. LFT, KFT which specifically relate to
 the liver were also within normal parameters. It is
 further averred that even the earlier reports of late
 Sh. Himanshu Dhankard were showing high
 cholesterol levels. Geeta Devi Vs. HDFC Bank . Page: 7/54 16. It is further averred that all the previous reports
 of Late Sh. Himanshu Dhankard clearly suggest that
 he was not suffering from any liver disease and
 therefore must have died only on account of cardiac
 arrest / heart failure which may have occurred due to
 stress and exertion undertaken while doing the
 trekking in the extremely cold weather of higher
 reaches of mountains where the oxygen levels are
 also very low and which is an accidental death. It is
 further averred that in the death summary dated
 26.10.2016 issued by the police officials, the cause
 of death has been stated to be unknown whereas
 from the perusal of postmortem report, it is apparent
 that the opinion is not conclusive and no definite
 cause of death has been opined in the entire
 postmortem report. 17. It is further averred that repudiation of claim has
 been done by defendant no.2 without due application
 of mind and with the malafide intentions of causing
 unjust enrichment to themselves at the cost and
 expenses of the plaintiff. It is further averred that
 despite the fact that any pending liability in respect
 of loan facility for purchase of aforestated car
 availed by son of plaintiff from defendant no.1 bank
 was duly covered in the event of his unfortunate Geeta Devi Vs. HDFC Bank . Page: 8/54
 demise under Sarv Suraksha Plus Policy issued by
 defendant no.2, the officials and representatives of
 defendant no.1 have sent demand notice dated
 12.12.2016 in the name of deceased / insured
 threatening to prosecute the deceased / insured under Section 138 of Negotiable Instruments Act and other
 relevant provisions. It is further claimed that the
 officials of defendant no.1 were also making regular
 threatening calls to plaintiff as well as her husband
 thereby giving filthy abuses and are further
 threatening to take forcible possession of car in
 question left behind by deceased / insured with the
 threats of selling it in open market for recovering the
 alleged outstanding loan amount at throw away
 prices. It is further averred that one Mr. Abhishek,
 representing himself as recovery officer of defendant
 no.1 has been repeatedly making threatening and
 abusive calls from his mobile number 9899199240
 and defendant no.1 has also sent their demand notice
 dated 14.12.2016 in the name of deceased son of
 plaintiff to take possession of the car in question. 18. It is further averred that the plaintiff and her
 husband, who were already suffering from immense
 grief and sorrow due to unfortunate and untimely
 demise of their only son were put to further
 harassment and immense pressure and tension due to Geeta Devi Vs. HDFC Bank . Page: 9/54
 daily threatening and abusive calls from the
 officials / recovery agents of defendant no.1 for
 alleged recovery of alleged outstanding which was
 neither due nor payable by the plaintiff as the same
 is duly covered under the insurance policy / cover
 issued by defendant no.2 and is therefore, the
 liability of defendant no.2 company. 19. It is further averred that by concealing about the
 pendency of present suit, the defendant no.1 filed a
 petition under Section 9 of the Arbitration and
 Conciliation Act in the District Courts, Dwarka and
 secured ex-parte orders dated 31.08.2017 for seizing
 the subject vehicle by falsely alleging that the
 deceased son of plaintiff and plaintiff have
 committed default in repayment of the auto loan. It
 is further averred that pursuant to said ex-parte
 orders, the officials / recovery agents of defendant
 no.1 reached the house of plaintiff in the early hours
 of 15.09.2017, harassed and humiliated the plaintiff
 and her husband in public view and forced them to
 pay Rs.1,90,000/- to save the car from being taken
 away despite the fact that the plaintiff was not liable
 to pay it in view of the insurance policy taken by
 their deceased son. It is further averred that the said
 amount of Rs.1,90,000/- has been taken and
 recovered by defendant no.1 in the name of Geeta Devi Vs. HDFC Bank . Page: 10/54
 settlement of auto loan under force, threat and
 coercion, hence defendants are jointly and severely
 liable to pay the said amount to plaintiff alongwith
 interest @ 12% per annum w.e.f. 15.09.2017. It is
 further averred that the officials / recovery agents
 reached the house of plaintiff in the early hours of
 15.09.2017 and started threatening the plaintiff of
 taking away the car left behind by her deceased son
 and started using abusive language against the
 plaintiff and her husband in full public view, hence
 defendant no.1 is liable to compensate the plaintiff
 by way of token damages @ Rs.1,00,000/-. 20. It is further averred that since the death of son of
 plaintiff, Late Sh. Himanshu Dhankard occurred on
 account of cardiac arrest / heart failure / heart attack
 due to exertion and stress suffered while trekking in
 the mountains in extreme cold conditions, therefore
 the same is an accidental death as such defendant
 no.2 is liable to pay to the plaintiff, a sum of
 Rs.5,00,000/- under the claim head accidental death.
 It is further averred that since the plaintiff had been
 named as a nominee in the policy in question issued
 by defendant no.2, she is entitled to submit her claim
 in respect of accidental death claim and also entitled
 to maintain the present suit for recovery of the said
 claim which defendant no.2 has illegally and Geeta Devi Vs. HDFC Bank . Page: 11/54
 unlawfully refused to pay to the plaintiff. 21. Summons to defendants no.1 and 2 were served
 and they put their appearance and also filed their
 written statements. 22. In the Written statement filed by defendant no.1
 it claimed that the present suit is vexatious and filed
 by plaintiff with malafide intention by levelling false
 averments and incorrect facts. It is further claimed
 that at the time of entering into the Loan Agreement
 bearing no.35817083 dated 21.10.2015 qua vehicle
 Swift Dzire LDI bearing registration no.DL 3C CK
 1621, the son of plaintiff was made well aware about
 the different terms and conditions of auto loan
 including processing fees, Insurance Premium and
 other charges and he signed the same after
 understanding the same. It is further claimed that the
 role and responsibility of defendant no.1 was to
 sanction and disburse the loan, which was
 admittedly done and instead of paying the loan
 amount, the plaintiff has falsely initiated the suit
 against them for wrongful gains. It is further claimed
 that the present suit is barred as the contract /
 agreement entered between the parties for auto loan
 to be sanctioned and disbursed by defendant no.1 to Geeta Devi Vs. HDFC Bank . Page: 12/54
 the plaintiff's son has a clause i.e. Clause 26 for
 arbitration and appointment of Arbitrator and in view
 of the said clause, the present suit is not
 maintainable and deserves to be dismissed. It is
 further claimed since the EMI's were not received by
 the bank against the loan disbursed to the deceased,
 defendant no.1 had issued the demand notice in due
 course to the son of plaintiff and the defendant no.1
 has the legal right to recover the outstanding amount
 from the plaintiff. 23. Defendant no.2 in their written statement
 claimed that the plaintiff has no right, title or interest
 to file the present suit as the plaintiff has not come
 with clean hands and has filed the present plaint with
 malafide intentions just to extract money by
 adopting illegal means. It is further claimed that
 there is no privity of contract between the plaintiff
 and defendant no.2. It is further claimed that the
 present complaint has been filed in respect of Sarv
 Suraksha Plus Insurance Policy bearing
 no.2950201212681200000 was valid from
 23.10.2015 to 22.10.2020 covering the risk of
 Himanshu Dhankard, the terms and conditions of
 which were never disputed by the insured till his
 demise and it was issued as per the information and
 declarations given by the insured. It is further Geeta Devi Vs. HDFC Bank . Page: 13/54
 claimed that the plaintiff is claiming benefit under
 the said policy qua which a letter dated 03.11.2016
 was sent to her to submit the documents, also
 reminder letters dated 10.11.2016, 21.11.2016 and
 30.11.2016 and after scrutinizing the documents, it
 was observed that the insured Sh. Himanshu
 Dhankard died due to alcoholic liver disease, as
 mentioned in the postmortem report. It is further
 claimed that the insurance police issued to the
 insured deceased is a peril based policy and all the
 perils / cause of loss are specified in the policy
 document and that the death of the insured deceased
 does not fall under the purview of insurance covers
 as listed in the policy documents and thus claim is
 not admissible under the policy terms and conditions
 and it was rightly rejected by defendant no.2. It is
 further claimed that the said disease i.e. Alcoholic
 Liver Disease does not fall under the category of
 Critical Illness as defined in the critical illness
 section of the policy, It is claimed that the death of
 son of the plaintiff had caused in the night and not
 during trekking or due to stress of trekking, as
 alleged. It is further claimed that it is nowhere
 mentioned in the postmortem report that the death
 was caused due to heart attack. It is prayed that the
 suit of the plaintiff be dismissed with heavy costs. Geeta Devi Vs. HDFC Bank . Page: 14/54 24. Replication was not filed by the plaintiff, hence
 right to file replication was closed vide order dated
 04.07.2017. 25. From the pleadings of the parties, following
 issues were framed on 04.07.2017: 26. While the matter was fixed for plaintiff evidence,
 an application under Order VI Rule 17 CPC was
 filed on 22.11.2017 which was allowed on
 21.02.2018 and in view of the amendment of the
 plaint, the issues were re-framed as under : 1/5 are retain invoice dated 19.10.2015 and the
 payment details dated 19.10.2015, Ex.PW-1/6 is
 Insurance Cover note bearing no.006600967305
 dated 19.10.2015, Ex.PW-1/7 and Ex.PW-1/8 are
 letter dated 23.10.2015 and policy schedule issued
 by the defendant no.2 company, Ex.PW-1/9 is local
 newspaper report, Ex.PW-1/10 is death certificate of
 Late Himanshu Dhankard, Ex.PW-1/11 is copy of Geeta Devi Vs. HDFC Bank . Page: 16/54
 letter dated 01.11.2016, Ex.PW-1/12 and Ex.PW-
 1/13 are the letter dated 03.11.2016 and 21.11.2016,
 Ex.PW-1/14 is Repudiation letter dated 09.12.2016,
 Ex.PW-1/5 and Ex.PW-1/15 to Ex.PW-1/18 are
 pathology reports dated 11.09.2008, 12.12.2009,
 19.07.2013 and 16.06.2016, Ex.PW-1/19 is the death
 summary dated 26.10.2016, Ex.PW-1/20 is
 postmortem report, Ex.PW-1/21 and Ex.PW-1/22 are
 the photographs of the son of plaintiff posted on
 instagram and also sent on whatsapp, Ex.PW-1/23 is
 the letter dated 14.12.2016, Ex.PW-1/24 is the
 complaint dated 04.05.2017, Ex.PW-1/25 is the copy
 of receipt dated 15.09.2017 for Rs.1,90,000/- and
 certified copy of Forensic Report dated 28.12.2016
 of deceased Sh. Himanshu Dhankard alongwith
 original covering letter dated 18.05.2022 received
 under RTI from Assistant Director-cum-PIO,
 Regional Forensic Science Laboratory, Central
 Range, Biuli, Mandi, Himachal Pradesh as Ex.PW-
 1/26. During cross examination by Ld. Counsel for
 defendant no.1, she stated that she had studied uptill
 10th and is presently working at Maulana Azad
 Dental Hospital, New Delhi as a Nurse. She stated
 that she is aware about the contents of her affidavit
 Ex.PW-1/A and that her son had availed an auto loan
 for a sum of Rs.5,55,932/- from defendant no.1 Geeta Devi Vs. HDFC Bank . Page: 17/54
 which was sanctioned and disbursed by defendant
 no.1 in favour of her son for Rs.5,24,251/-. She
 further admitted that as on date, the loan in question
 is closed and defendant no.1 has given the NOC. She
 denied the suggestion that the loan amount was
 cleared by her under a settlement. She volunteered
 that the officials of the defendant no.1 bank had
 threatened them of seizing the vehicle and they were
 taken to Police Station where they were forced to
 pay the loan amount to the defendant no.1 bank. She
 admitted that she has not filed any police complaint
 for forcible settlement by defendant no.1. She stated
 that she does not know whether a notice was issued
 on case filed by the bank for seizure of the vehicle.
 She again stated that in a case filed against her son,
 they had received the notice of the application from
 the Court in Arbitration and Conciliation Act ,
 however, she had not attended the said hearing. She
 denied that the official of defendant no.1 never
 threatened her and her family over phone. She
 admitted that no police complaint was filed
 regarding the threats received over phone and that
 the vehicle in question remained in her possession
 from the date of purchase till date. She volunteered
 that she was supposed to pay Rs.1,90,000/- in cash
 in the police station then only the bank official
 released the vehicle which was seized from their Geeta Devi Vs. HDFC Bank . Page: 18/54
 premises, which was arranged from their known
 persons. She denied the suggestion that she is co-
 borrower of the loan in question. She volunteered
 that she was a nominee. PW-1 was shown loan application Form Ex.PW-
 1/D1(3 pages), stamp paper of Rs.210/- Ex.PW-1/D2
 and stamp paper of Rs.50/- Ex.PW-1/D3 and she
 admitted her signatures at point A on each exhibit.
 She admitted that there was EMI default of the
 loan amount after the death of her son. She stated
 that she is not aware whether bank officials
 alongwith police had came to her place for seizure of
 the vehicle on the directions of the Hon'ble Court.
 She denied that defendant no.1 was only responsible
 for sanction and disbursal of the loan and had no role
 in the insurance of the loan. On being cross examined by Ld. Counsel for
 defendant no.2, she stated that she does not recall the
 outstanding amount of loan on the date of death of
 her son, however, as per her knowledge, the loan
 was taken by her son for five years and the EMI
 amount was Rs.12,000/­ approx. She further stated
 that the car was taken in September / October, 2015
 by her son and EMI started one month thereafter.
 She further stated that she does not know out of
 Rs.1,90,000/­ which they had paid towards
 settlement to the defendant no. 1 bank, what was the Geeta Devi Vs. HDFC Bank . Page: 19/54
 ratio of the loan amount and interest. She further
 stated that her son was 12th passed and could read
 and write English language. She further stated that
 the Insurance Policy in question must have been read
 by her deceased son, however, she had not read the
 same. She further stated that she does not know
 whether the policy was received by post or it was
 received by hand and whether the insurance policy
 received by her son contains policy schedule and
 policy terms and conditions (wording). She further
 stated that she does not know whether her son wrote
 any letter to defendant no.2 informing that he has not
 received the policy schedule or policy wordings.
 She further stated that she had never seen her son
 drinking liquor as his son never returned home being
 under the influence of liquor. She denied the
 suggestion that her son died due to alcohol liver
 disease. She admitted that in Ex.PW-1/26, the
 viscera report mentions the traces of alcohol in the
 blood of her son. She admitted that she had not
 challenged the postmortem report and that no
 accident took place with her son as he had come
 back from trekking and his vehicle parked at the
 time of his death and he was in his hotel room. She
 further stated that she lastly spoke to her son at about
 3.00 PM when he was coming back from trekking. Geeta Devi Vs. HDFC Bank . Page: 20/54
 She volunteered that his son was in good health as
 he had also undertaken Dak Kanwar Yatra about
 three months back which was done by running and
 that she also had video of the same. She denied the
 suggestion that the claim of the plaintiff was rightly
 rejected by the defendant no.2 as it did not cover
 under the policy terms and conditions. 28. Plaintiff also examined PW-2 Sh. Deepak Pawar,
 who stated that deceased Himanshu was his friend
 for 3-4 years before his death as he met him through
 a common friend and used to gym with him in Delhi
 on daily basis. He further stated that on 23.10.2016,
 he alongwith Himanshu were going to Kasol for site
 seeing in his car bearing no. 1621 Maruti Swift
 White Color and left Delhi at about 9.00/10.00 PM
 and reached Kasol in the morning at about 6.00/7.00
 AM. He further stated that on 25.10.2022 after
 checking out from the hotel and parking his car in
 the alloted parking, they started the trekking as
 suggested by locals. He further stated that Himanshu
 started complaining of chest pain, however they
 continued the trekking and reached the designated
 trek point at about 3.00/4.00 pm. He further stated
 that while he was ordering snacks for both of them,
 he started shivering and complained that he is having
 acute chest pain. He further stated that they had Geeta Devi Vs. HDFC Bank . Page: 21/54
 shifted him to the room and tried to arrange for
 ambulance which reached after 2-3 hours and after
 bringing him down from the trek point, they shifted
 him to the hospital at Kalka and while he was shifted
 to the ambulance he was unconscious and was
 declared brought dead to the hospital. He stated that,
 however, doctors had not declared the cause of death
 and his body was kept for postmortem. He further
 stated that he also informed the doctors that
 Himanshu was complaining of chest pain and also
 informed his family member about the tragic death
 of Himanshu. He further stated that the police
 officials were also present in the hospital. He further
 stated that neither he nor Himanshu had taken any
 drugs/alcohol on that day or any day before and
 Himanshu was fit and active and had participated in
 Dak Kawar Yatra (running Kawar Yatra) two months
 ago. He further stated that as per his knowledge,
 Himanshu occasionally used to take liquor in some
 party/function. On being cross examined by Ld. counsel for
 defendant no. 2, he stated that he had only informed
 the parents of Himanshu about his death and how
 they had shifted him to hospital. He stated that
 neither he nor Himanshu had contacted anyone
 during their trekking over phone. He further stated
 that he came back to Delhi separately after Geeta Devi Vs. HDFC Bank . Page: 22/54
 postmortem of body of Himanshu and his family had
 taken his body. He further stated that as per his
 knowledge postmortem was conducted on
 26.10.2016 and he was in Kalka only. He further
 stated that he had not enquired about the cause of
 death. He volunteered that he was traumatized. He
 admitted that postmortem report was prepared by the
 doctor on his own. It is denied the suggestion that
 the cause of death of deceased was "death after
 consumption of smoking of abusive drug". He
 further stated that he had not told doctor about any
 consumption of any drug by him or Himanshu. He
 volunteered that he had told the doctor about the
 chest pain. He further stated that in the ambulance
 there were three persons including him and local
 persons, however, he does not recall whether the
 locals were also enquired by the doctor. He admitted
 that he had never seen the postmortem report or
 viscra report and had never enquired from the family
 of Himanshu about the postmortem report or viscra
 report. He further stated that he had met family of
 Himanshu 2/3 times wherein they enquired about the
 circumstances of which he died. He denied the
 suggestion that Himanshu was under the influence of
 liquor/drugs on that day while trekking or that due to
 consumption of liquor and drugs, his liver was
 already affected and he died due to alcohol liver Geeta Devi Vs. HDFC Bank . Page: 23/54
 disease. On being cross examined by Ld. Counsel for
 defendant no.1, he denied the suggestion that he was
 deposing falsely at instance of plaintiff. 29. Thereafter, plaintiff also examined PW-3 Sh. Lalit Kumar, who tendered his evidence by way of
 affidavit Ex.PW-3/A. He also relied upon documents
 i.e. his ID proof as Ex.PW-3/1, documents already
 Ex.PW-1/4 to Ex.PW-1/24, Mark A and Mark B.
 During cross examination by Ld. Counsel for
 defendant no.2, he stated that he is intermediate pass
 and can understand English language but cannot
 write it fluently and also that he can read and write
 Hindi language. He further stated that he is aware of
 the contents of the affidavit Ex.PW-3/A. He admitted
 that his deceased son, Himanshu Dhankar had taken
 auto loan of Rs.5,55,932/- in front of him and the
 same was disbursed to him and also that presently
 said auto loan has been closed by HDFC Bank and
 NOC has been issued. He further admitted that he
 had not made any police complaint against forcible
 settlement of the auto loan. He volunteered that he
 had made police complaint against HDFC Bank qua
 harassment prior to settlement. He admitted that he
 had received notice from the HDFC Bank qua
 repayment of the loan / seizure of the vehicle and Geeta Devi Vs. HDFC Bank . Page: 24/54
 that they have not received any notice of Arbitration
 proceedings and had also not attended any
 arbitration proceedings. He further stated that the
 vehicle was repossessed by HDFC Bank and
 deposited at PS Sarojini Nagar. He admitted that
 that he received the possession of the vehicle again
 on the same day from PS Sarojini Nagar and the
 bank officials alongwith Delhi Police had visited
 their house on 15.09.2017 and shown the ex-parte
 order of the arbitration proceedings. He admitted
 that when bank officials with police visited at their
 house, neighbours gathered. He further stated that no
 neighbour is cited as a witness in the present case.
 He denied that no neighbours gathered during the
 visit of bank officials and police and that he is
 deposing falsely in this regard. He denied the
 suggestion that bank officials have never harassed
 them. He admitted that any loan taken from bank or
 any person should be repaid in stipulated time. He
 admitted that his wife is a co-borrower in the auto
 loan. He admitted that auto loan agreement Ex.PW-
 1/D3 was executed between his son and wife being
 borrower and co-borrower respectively and HDFC
 Bank as lender and that name of HDFC Ergo
 General Insurance Co. Ltd. is not mentioned in the
 auto loan agreement. He further admitted that after Geeta Devi Vs. HDFC Bank . Page: 25/54
 the death of his son there was default of EMI of auto
 loan and that present suit is filed after rejection of
 their claim by defendant no.2 and that there was an
 arbitration clause in the agreement. He further denied the suggestion that HDFC
 Bank had strictly acted in accordance with the rules
 and regulations and as per the terms and conditions
 of the auto loan agreement or that the role and
 responsibility of HDFC Bank is limited to the extent
 of sanctioning and disbursing the loan subject to
 loan formalities and the same was done by the
 HDFC Bank. He further denied the suggestion that
 the grievance with regard to the repudiation of the
 claim of the plaintiff due to the death of her son is
 not within the domain of the HDFC Bank and as
 such cannot be held liable for the same. He further
 denied the suggestion that the present suit is without
 any cause of action against HDFC Bank or that the
 present suit filed by plaintiff is false, frivolous and is
 nothing but an attempt to harass and damage the
 name and reputation of HDFC bank and further to
 extract money from HDFC Bank. He further denied
 the suggestion that HDFC bank has rightly filed an
 arbitration petition before Dwarka Court against
 Himanshu Dhankar and PW-1 as per the clause 26 of
 the auto loan agreement. On being cross examined by Ld. Counsel for Geeta Devi Vs. HDFC Bank . Page: 26/54
 defendant no.1, he stated that his son was 12th pass
 and was working in Call Center for about 5/6 months
 and earning about Rs. 25,000/- approx. He further
 stated that his son joined Call center after passing
 12th and in the meantime he had joined his business
 of Travel Agency. He further stated that the down
 payment of vehicle was done by his wife and part of
 it was also paid by his son. He further stated that the
 officials of HDFC Bank and HDFC Ergo General
 Insurance got the papers signed at their residence for
 the insurance of vehicle in question and he himself
 had gone for taking delivery of the vehicle. He
 further stated that the insurance officials got signed
 the Suraksha Insurance policy papers from his wife
 as well as from his son and they have not given any
 copy of the same. He admitted that he cannot say
 exact number of document signed by his wife and
 son as he was not present at that time and came to
 know about the insurance policy after death of his
 son which was lying in the car. He further stated
 that he does not recall whether the policy was
 received through post. He volunteered that same
 might have been received by his wife and that he had
 not received the policy by himself and therefore he
 cannot tell the documents received with the policy. He further stated that he does not know whether
 alongwith the policy document, the policy schedule Geeta Devi Vs. HDFC Bank . Page: 27/54
 and terms and conditions of the police were also
 delivered to his son. He denied the suggestion that
 contents of para 5 of his affidavit are incorrect. He
 further stated that he does not recall out of Rs. 1.90
 lacs what was the principal amount and what was the
 interest portion towards settlement of the loan
 He further stated that he had never seen his son
 drinking liquor as he never returned home being
 under the influence of liquor. He denied the
 suggestion that his son died due to alcohol liver
 disease. He admitted that in Ex.PW-1/26, the viscera
 report mentions the traces of alcohol in the blood of
 my son and that he had not challenged the
 postmortem report. He further admitted that no
 accident took place with his son as he had come
 back from trekking and his vehicle parked at the
 time of his death and he was in his hotel room. He
 further stated that he lastly spoke to his son at about
 3.00 PM when he was coming back from trekking.
 He volunteered that his son was in good health as he
 had also undertaken Dak Kanwar Yatra about three
 months back which was done by running and also
 also had video of the same. He denied the
 suggestion that the claim of the plaintiff was rightly
 rejected by the defendant no.2 as it did not cover
 under the policy terms and conditions and that he
 was deposing falsely. Geeta Devi Vs. HDFC Bank . Page: 28/54 30. No other witness was examined by plaintiff and
 therefore, vide separate statement of plaintiff, the
 plaintiff evidence was closed and the matter was
 posted for defence evidence. 31. In defence evidence, defendant no. 1 examined
 D1W-1 Ms. Bharti Thakur, Authorised Officer of
 HDFC Bank, who tendered her examination-in-chief
 by way of affidavit Ex.D1W-1/X and also relied
 upon the documents i.e. Board Resolution dated
 16.04.2022 as Ex.D1W1/A, copy of Loan
 Application Form and Loan Agreement dated
 20.10.2015 of Loan Account No.35817083
 alongwith schedule are Mark A and Mark B. She
 stated that at the time of entering into the loan
 agreement, the terms and conditions were explained
 to son of plaintiff who after understanding signed the
 Auto Loan Agreement and therefore, was aware
 about the terms / tenure of the loan. She also claimed
 that son of plaintiff was not regular in paying EMIs
 and five EMIs have been dishonoured. She has also
 mentioned the Ex.D1W1/D i.e. the copy of loan
 account statement in her affidavit but has not relied
 upon the same in her examination-in-chief.
 During cross examination by Ld. counsel for
 plaintiff, she stated that she had tried to trace the Geeta Devi Vs. HDFC Bank . Page: 29/54
 original record of the Arbitration proceedings and
 had placed on record the computer generated copies
 of order dated 31.08.2017 for appointment of
 Receiver in Arbitration proceedings no.2837/17 by
 the Hon'ble Court of Sh. Sanjay Khanagwal, the
 then Ld. ADJ-03, South West, Dwarka Courts, Delhi,
 which was exhibited as Ex.D1W-1/P1 and stated that
 the original record of the Arbitration proceedings
 must be lying with Warehouse of the bank at
 Mumbai / Gurgaon. She admitted that before filing the Arbitration
 proceedings no.2837/17, the defendant No 1 was
 aware that Himanshu Dhankar had already expired.
 She further admitted that as per the memo of parties
 of Arbitration proceedings no.2837/17, Himanshu
 Dhankar was made one of the respondent but
 volunteered that the said petition might have been
 filed through Legal Heirs. She admitted that she had
 no document to show that the said petition was filed
 against Himanshu Dhankar through his Legal Heirs
 She stated that she does not know when the bank
 officials went for re-possession of the vehicle
 alongwith the Receiver. She further admitted
 Arbitration proceedings no.2837/17 was listed
 before the Hon'ble Court on 31.08.2017. She further
 admitted that as per record, the present civil suit was
 filed on 16.01.2017 and summons were issued Geeta Devi Vs. HDFC Bank . Page: 30/54
 against the defendant bank and that on 01.03.2017,
 when Ld. Counsel for defendant bank has made
 submissions that the bank will not re-possess the
 vehicle without due process of law and application
 of plaintiff under Order 39 Rule 1 and 2 CPC was
 disposed off. She volunteered that the defendant has
 attempted to re-possess the vehicle by following the
 due process of law. She stated that she cannot say
 whether the defendant has disclosed in the petition
 under Section 9 of Arbitration Act that civil suit of
 plaintiff is pending wherein the defendant bank has
 undertook not to re-possess the vehicle without
 following the due process of law. She denied the
 suggestion that the defendant has not disclosed in the
 petition under Section 9 of Arbitration Act that civil
 suit of plaintiff is pending wherein the defendant
 bank has undertook not to re-possess the vehicle
 without following the due process of law or that
 order dated 31.08.2017 was obtained by the
 defendant bank by concealing the pendency of
 present suit as well as by concealing the order dated
 01.03.2017 in the present suit before the Dwarka
 Court. She further stated that she does not know
 whether the officials of defendant bank had
 attempted the re-possession of the vehicle in the
 early hours on 15.09.2017. She further denied the
 suggestion that the plaintiff and other family Geeta Devi Vs. HDFC Bank . Page: 31/54
 members of deceased Himanshu Dhankar were
 humiliated in public view while attempting to re-
 possess the vehicle or that the plaintiff and other
 family members of deceased Himanshu Dhankar
 were humiliated in public view despite the fact that
 the vehicle loan was covered under the insurance
 and plaintiff was coerced to pay Rs.1,90,000/-
 towards settlement of the auto loan. She admitted
 that Rs.1,90,000/- were received by defendant from
 the plaintiff. She further admitted that as per Ex.PW-
 1/25, the date of payment is 15.09.2017. She further
 admitted that defendant no.1 has not filed any
 insurance claim with respect to outstanding amount
 of the auto loan in question with defendant no.2 and
 that the auto loan was covered under the insurance
 with defendant no.2. She further denied the
 suggestion that the premium of Insurance Policy was
 directly paid by defendant no.1. She volunteered that
 the defendant no.1 only facilitates the premium of
 insurance out of the loan amount sanctioned. She
 further admitted that amount of premium paid
 towards insurance is added to the loan amount and
 that premium amount is debited from the total loan
 sanctioned and credited to the insurance company.
 She volunteered that the same is done with the
 consent of the borrower. She admitted that defendant
 no.1 was aware about the details of policy taken. She

Geeta Devi Vs. HDFC Bank . Page: 32/54
 denied the suggestion that in view of the insurance
 policy taken, plaintiff was not having liability to pay
 any outstanding amount of auto loan after the death
 of Himanshu Dhankar. She further stated that she
 does not know whether if the insurance claim is
 presented by defendant no.1 with defendant no.2, all
 outstanding on the auto loan would be satisfied by
 the insurance claim. She admitted that defendant
 no.1 has not preferred any claim with defendant no.2
 for the auto loan in question and therefore, there is
 no occasion for rejection of any insurance claim in
 respect of present auto loan. She denied the
 suggestion that since defendant no.1 is at default in
 not preferring the insurance claim, therefore, it is not
 entitled to recover / receive Rs.1,90,000/- from the
 plaintiff or that bank is liable to pay back the amount
 of Rs.1,90,000/- to the plaintiff with interest apart
 from damages. She further denied the suggestion
 that the actions of the defendant no.1 bank caused
 humiliation and trauma to the plaintiff and her
 family or that bank is liable to pay damages to the
 plaintiff for such humiliation and trauma @ of Rs.1
 lakh as has been claimed by the plaintiff. On being cross examined by Ld. Counsel for
 defendant no.2, she stated that the total outstanding
 in the auto loan after the death of Himanshu Dhankar
 was Rs.5,14,992/- as on 16.06.2017, however she Geeta Devi Vs. HDFC Bank . Page: 33/54
 does not know what was the applicable rate of
 interest on the outstanding loan amount. 32. No other witness was examined by defendant
 no.1 and therefore, vide separate statement of AR of
 defendant no.1, the defendant evidence on behalf of
 defendant no.1 was closed. 33. Defendant no.2 examined Ms. Shweta Pokhriyal
 as D2W-1 who tendered her evidence by way of
 affidavit Ex.D2W-1/X and also relied upon the
 document i.e. copy of policy alongwith terms and
 conditions as Ex.DW-1/1. She claimed that the
 claim, if any, was always subject to terms and
 condition of the policy and the said policy was
 issued as per the information and declarations given
 by the insured. She further claimed that the Shri
 Himanshu Dhankard died due to alcoholic liver
 disease, as mentioned in the postmortem and viscera
 report. She further claimed that the insurance policy
 issued to the insured deceased is a peril based policy
 and all the perils / cause of loss are specified in the
 policy document and that the death of the insured
 deceased does not fall under the purview of the
 insurance covers as listed in the policy documents
 and thus claim of the complainant is not admissible
 under the policy terms and conditions and same Geeta Devi Vs. HDFC Bank . Page: 34/54
 rejected by the defendant and informed vide letter
 dated 09.12.2016. She further claimed that as per the
 postmortem report, it is prima facie evident that
 death happened due to consumption of smoking of
 abusive drug. She further claimed that the petitioner
 under para 6 of the petition is claiming that the
 insured expired due to heart attack / cardiac arrest /
 heart failure, however, the petitioner has not produce
 even a single document to back her defence and if
 the contention of the petitioner is believed even then
 the claim is not payable as the policy is question
 only covers "First heart attack of specified severity".
 She further claimed that the said disease i.e.
 Alcoholic Liver Disease does not fall under the
 category of Critical Illness as defined in the critical
 illness section of the policy. She further claimed that
 the claim of the complainant under the head of credit
 shield or personal accident was also not payable, as
 per the terms and condition laid down under Section
 5 for credit shield insurance policy. She further
 claimed that the benefits under the credit shield
 policy is payable only in circumstances were the
 death of the insured is due to accident or there is
 Permanent Total Disability but in the present case no
 accident ever took place rather the insured died due
 to ailment i.e. alcoholic liver disease. She further
 claimed that claim under Personal Accident is also Geeta Devi Vs. HDFC Bank . Page: 35/54
 not payable for the reason that the death of the
 deceased insured is not attributed to any accident.
 During cross examination by Ld. counsel for
 plaintiff, she stated that she was working in the legal
 claims section. She stated that she had not processed
 the insurance claim in question and that she does not
 know the name of the official who has processed the
 said claim and that she had never interacted with the
 person who has processed the claim in question. She
 further stated that she does not know the exact
 educational qualification of the person who
 processed the claim in question. She volunteered that
 all such claims are processed by all qualified MBBS
 doctors. She admitted that no document has been
 filed by the defendant to show that the claim in
 question was processed by qualified MBBS doctor.
 She further admitted that Ex. PW-1/8 is the policy
 schedule issued to the deceased policyholder
 Himanshu Dhankard and that terms and conditions
 of the policy are not annexed with Ex. PW-1/8 but
 the said terms and conditions are already on record
 Ex. DW-1/1. She further admitted that no proof of
 dispatch/receiving of the policy document including
 terms and conditions are filed on record. She
 volunteered that the same is done by Operational
 Branch. She further stated that Ex. DW-1/1 was
 received in our section from Operational Branch

Geeta Devi Vs. HDFC Bank . Page: 36/54
 which must have been retrieved from the computer
 system of the company. She further stated that the
 Operational Branch has sent the copy of policy also
 with the terms and conditions. She further stated that
 as per her understanding the words "Policy
 wordings" at point A on Ex. PW-1/8 means policy
 terms and conditions. She admitted that the policy
 document has not been separated by them. She
 volunteered that the same is already filed by the
 plaintiff herself. She further stated that as per
 standard practice the cover note of the policy is
 issued first and the policy schedule alongwith terms
 & conditions are issued later on. She denied the
 suggestion that cover note was not issued separately
 to Himanshu Dhankard or that for this reason only
 the cover note has not been filed by them in the
 present case. He further stated that he does not know
 whether any prior medical test of Himanshu
 Dhankard was conducted before issuance of the
 policy. She volunteered that for the policy in
 question prior medical test is normally not
 suggested. She further stated that she does not know
 whether the premium towards the insurance policy
 was remitted by HDFC bank or by Himanshu
 Dhankard. She denied the suggestion that HDFC
 bank has remitted Rs. 6532/- towards insurance Geeta Devi Vs. HDFC Bank . Page: 37/54
 premium to defendant no. 2 for the issuance of
 policy in question. She further stated that she does
 not know whether defendant no. 1 has filed any
 claim with defendant no.2 for settlement of the loan
 in question as the loan was insured by them. She
 further stated that till date defendant no. 2 has not
 issued any letter of rejection of insurance claim to
 defendant no.1. She volunteered that the same is
 issued to the plaintiff. She admitted that the policy in
 question was issued on 23.10.2015. She admitted
 that defendant no. 2 was aware that Himanshu
 Dhandkard had died on 26.10.2016 and the claim
 was rejected after considering postmortem and
 viscra report. She further admitted that during the
 processing of the claim in question they have not
 sought any previous medical history of deceased
 Himanshu Dhankard during the period after issuance
 of policy and before his death and that claim
 rejection letter Ex. PW-1/14 is dated 09.12.2016 and
 viscra report Ex. PW-1/26 is dated 23.12.2016. She
 further stated that she is aware of the time duration
 during which a person can be diagnosed with
 alcoholic liver disease and it takes time to diagnose
 alcoholic liver disease. She further stated that as per
 her knowledge it is diagnosed within one year of
 starting consumption of alcohol. She admitted that
 she is not medically qualified to identify and analyse Geeta Devi Vs. HDFC Bank . Page: 38/54
 the conclusions of postmortem and viscra report.
 She further admitted that before rejecting the
 claim no communication/verification was sought
 from the concerned doctor who has prepared the
 postmortem or the viscra report. She also stated that
 the opinion of the concerned medically qualified
 persons who had recommended for rejection of
 claim was not filed and was not aware as to whether
 the postmortem report was considered for rejection
 of the claim. She volunteered that the same must be
 in the computer system of the company. She
 admitted that they have not verified/checked the
 validity and correctness of documents Ex. PW-1/15
 to PW-1/18 and PW-1/18A and PW-1/18B. She
 further admitted that she cannot say whether the
 person who is having alcoholic disease will not have
 his health parameters as depicted in Ex. PW-1/15 to
 Ex. PW-1/18B. She denied the suggestion that
 deceased Himanshu Dhankard was hale and hearty
 and was not suffering from any disease related to
 abuse of alcohol or any other psychotropic
 substance. She admitted that they have not issued
 any letter to the plaintiff asking about the severity of
 the heart attack of deceased Himanshu and that the
 details of severity of the heart attack is mentioned
 Ex. DW-1/1 at point A to A. She admitted that the
 claim was not rejected after considering that the Geeta Devi Vs. HDFC Bank . Page: 39/54
 deceased had not suffered any heart attack as
 specified in the policy document. She stated that she
 is not aware whether the plaintiff has filed death
 claim. She admitted that the claim was rejected on
 the ground of critical illness. She further stated that
 she is not aware whether the plaintiff has not filed
 any claim on the ground of critical illness. She
 denied the suggestion that the claim was rejected on
 flimsy grounds and not on due application of mind.
 She admitted that they did not have any document
 that the deceased Himanshu Dhankard was suffering
 from alcoholic liver disease. She further denied the
 suggestion that the claim of the plaintiff is covered
 under the policy or that the claimant was entitled to
 the claim amount. She further denied the suggestion
 that claim was rejected dishonestly or that the
 claimant is entitled to the claim amount as prayed. 34. No other witness was examined in defence and
 hence, defence evidence was closed. 35. I have gone through the arguments and also
 perused the material evidence available on record. 36. Ld. Counsel for the plaintiff had argued that
 defendant no. 2 had wrongly rejected the claim of
 the plaintiff and defendant no, 1 had illegally Geeta Devi Vs. HDFC Bank . Page: 40/54
 coerced her to pay Rs.1,90,000 /- towards the
 outstanding loan amount despite same being covered
 under the insurance policy. He further argued that
 deceased Himanshu was hale and hearty as reflected
 in the police report and also in the post mortem
 report. He pointed out that no definite opinion was
 given by the doctor who conducted the postmortem
 and defendant no 2 had rejected the claim
 09.12.2016 without considering the viscra report as
 it was prepared only on 26.12.2016. He also argued
 that officials of defendant no 1 had caused immense
 trauma and mental agony as they humiliated the
 plaintiff and her family members in the presence of
 the public and took Rs.1,90,000 forcefully and
 therefore liable to pay damages. He also pointed out
 that defendant no.1 had filed petition u/s 9 of the
 Arbitration and Conciliation Act in the District
 Courts, Dwarka and secured ex-parte orders dated
 31.08.2017 against the deceased son of plaintiff
 without disclosing the Hon'ble Court that Himanshu
 had already died on 26.10.2016. He prays that suit of
 the plaintiff be decreed and cost be also awarded in
 her favour. Ld. counsel for plaintiff has relied upon
 the judgment in the matter of Som Dutt Builders Ltd
 Vs. Phool Kumari . 2004 (74) DRJ 626. 37. On the other hand, Ld. counsel for defendant Geeta Devi Vs. HDFC Bank . Page: 41/54
 no.1 argued that the role and responsibility of
 defendant no.1 was to sanction and disburse the
 loan, which was admittedly done and instead of
 paying the loan amount, the plaintiff has falsely
 initiated the suit against them for wrongful gains. He
 further argued that the defendant no.1 has the legal
 right to recover the outstanding amount from the
 plaintiff. 38. Similarly, Ld. counsel for defendant no.2 argued
 that Himanshu Dhankard died due to alcoholic liver
 disease, as mentioned in the postmortem report and
 the insurance policy was a peril based policy and all
 the perils / cause of loss are specified and that the
 death of the insured deceased does not fall under the
 purview of insurance covers as listed in the policy
 documents and therefore, claim is not admissible. He
 further argued that the disease i.e. Alcoholic Liver
 Disease does not fall under the category of Critical
 Illness as defined in the critical illness section of the
 policy and therefore, the claim was rightly rejected.
 Defendant no. 2 has relied upon the judgement in the
 matter of United India Insurance Co Ltd. Vs. M/s
 Harchand Rai Chandan Lal, Appeal (Civil) 6277 of
 2004 decided on 24.09.2004 and Venkat Reddy Vs.
 HDFC Bank & Anr., Revision petition no. 455/2018
 decided on 25.10.2018 and Gas Ghar vs. Oriental

Geeta Devi Vs. HDFC Bank . Page: 42/54
 Insurance Co. Ltd III (2006) CPJ 377 NC 39. My issue-wise findings is as follows : Firstly
 Issue No 3 is taken up for decision. 40. Issue NO.3. Whether the plaintiff is entitled for
 decree for a sum of Rs.5 lacs, as prayed for? OPP.
 The onus to prove this issue is upon the plaintiff. It is
 not in dispute that deceased had taken Insurance
 Policy from defendant no. 2 which covers not only
 auto loan under Credit Shield Policy in question but
 also provides additional coverage in the event of
 death of insured due to critical illness and accidental
 death. The Credit Shield cover provides that
 insurance Company will pay the balance outstanding
 loan amount to the legal heirs of the Insured or the
 Named Insured subject to the maximum Sum
 Insured specified in the Schedule. The critical illness
 cover provides coverage against specified critical
 illnesses. The policy also covered accidental death of
 the insured. Ld. Counsel for plaintiff had argued that
 since the deceased suffered unexpected illness and
 died while being taken to hospital, therefore his
 death should be covered under the heading
 'Accidental Death'. As per postmortem report the
 cause of death is mentioned as 'because of increased Geeta Devi Vs. HDFC Bank . Page: 43/54
 tendency of bleeding internally'. The concerned
 doctor had noted the 'possibility of alcohol liver
 disease can't be ruled out' but also mentions that
 'final report after viscera report'. No external p/o
 blunt or sharp trauma or HI is also noted by the
 doctor. To sustain the claim under Accidental Death
 category, the plaintiff must have shown that the
 death was due to a bodily injury resulting from an
 accident caused by outward, violent and visible
 means; and the injury was proximately caused by the
 accident. An occurrence/event which is unforeseen
 and startles one when it takes place but does not
 startle one when it does not take place. It is the
 happening of the unexpected, not the happening of
 the expected, which is called an accident. P Ramanatha Aiyar's Law Lexicon, defines the
 expression 'accident' as: 41. The expression 'accident' in the context of an
 accident insurance policy has been explained in
 MacGillivray on Insurance Law

 "In the context of an accidental insurance policy the Geeta Devi Vs. HDFC Bank . Page: 44/54
 word is usually contained in phrases such as "injury
 by accident", "accidental injury", "injury caused
 by or resulting from an accident" or "injury caused
 by accidental means" and in each of these phrases
 it has the connotation of an unexpected occurrence
 outside the normal course of events." It is not the case of plaintiff that the deceased had
 suffered any accidental bodily injury by blunt force
 impact due to fall or he was attacked by any external
 object including any vehicle or any boulder while
 trekking which resulted in his death. The claim that
 since family of deceased had history of heart disease
 and Himanshu had also reported elevated
 Cholesterol level in the medical tests conducted few
 months before, therefore Himanshu must have died
 due cardiac arrest is not supported either by
 symptoms reported in the post mortem report or in
 the cause of death as reported by the doctor. It is not
 the case of plaintiff that the doctor who had
 conducted the post mortem was either not qualified
 or had deliberately not reported the correct
 symptoms and cause of death of the deceased. Even
 the Viscra report Ex. PW1/26 doesn't disclose the
 cause of death as heart failure or any other accidental
 injury. PW1 also admitted that in Ex.PW-1/26, the
 viscera report mentions the traces of alcohol in the
 blood of her son. PW1 admitted that she had not Geeta Devi Vs. HDFC Bank . Page: 45/54
 challenged the postmortem report and that no
 accident took place with her son as he had come
 back from trekking and his vehicle parked at the
 time of his death and he was in his hotel room 42. With regard to coverage under the Credit Shield,
 it is payable only in case of accidental death or per-
 manent disability of the insured as provided in the
 terms and conditions of the policy. As discussed
 above, the proximate cause of death of deceased was
 neither any accident nor he suffered any permanent
 disability. I find force in the argument of Ld. Coun-
 sel for defendant no. 2 that terms of the policy must
 be strictly construed and his reliance on the judg-
 ment United India Insurance (supra). The credit
 shield cover is available only when the insured suf-
 fers accidental death or permanent disability due to
 accident. The reliance upon judgement in the matter
 of Som Dutt Builders (supra) is of no help to the
 plaintiff has she has failed to prove firstly that her
 son died due to heart attack and secondly in the
 judgment quoted the heart attack was considered as
 accident in circumstances where the deceased was
 under strain due to working conditions etc., but no
 such strain is pleaded in the present case. PW2, who
 had accompanied deceased on the trekking had not
 stated that Himanshu was under severe strain due to Geeta Devi Vs. HDFC Bank . Page: 46/54
 trekking. On the contrary, PW1, PW2 and PW3 all
 claimed that deceased was hail and hearty and was
 not having any underlying disease as he had took
 part in Kanwar Yatra and used to go to Gym for ex-
 ercise. Hence, the death of deceased Himanshu
 Dhankard cannot be attributed as an accidental death
 and claim of plaintiff could not be considered by de­
 fendant no. 2 under the Credit Shield or Accidental
 Death cover of the insurance policy. 43. As regards, coverage of claim under critical ill­
 ness, defendant no. 2 had rejected the claim on the
 ground that deceased was suffering from alcoholic
 liver disease and which is not a listed critical illness
 in the insurance policy. As per policy terms the in­
 surer pays the full sum insured on first diagnosis of
 any one of the 10 critical illnesses covered under the
 policy after the first 90 days of commencement of
 the policy provided that the insured person survives
 a period of 30 days from the date of the first diagno­
 sis. The plaintiff has claimed that alongwith the pol-
 icy schedule, no other annexure or any terms and
 conditions of the policy were sent by the defendant
 No. 2 company to the son of the plaintiff. However,
 PW1 in her cross examination stated that the Insur­
 ance Policy in question must have been read by her Geeta Devi Vs. HDFC Bank . Page: 47/54
 deceased son. PW1 failed to explain whether the pol­
 icy was received by post or it was received by hand
 and whether the insurance policy received by her son
 contains policy schedule and policy terms and condi­
 tions (wording). PW1 also showed her ignorance as
 to whether her son wrote any letter to defendant no.2
 informing that he has not received the policy sched­
 ule or policy wordings. 44. Witness of defendant no. 2, D2W-1 during cross
 examination stated that the claim was rejected after
 considering postmortem and viscra report. But she
 admitted that during the processing of the claim they
 have not sought any previous medical history of de-
 ceased Himanshu Dhankard and that claim rejection
 letter Ex. PW-1/14 is dated 09.12.2016 and viscera
 report Ex. PW-1/26 is dated 23.12.2016. D2W1 fur-
 ther admitted she is not medically qualified to iden-
 tify and analyse the conclusions of postmortem and
 viscera report. She also admitted that before reject-
 ing the claim no communication/verification was
 sought from the concerned doctor who has prepared
 the postmortem report or the viscera report. She also
 admitted that the opinion of the concerned medically
 qualified persons who had recommended for rejec-
 tion of claim was not filed and she was also not
 aware as to whether the postmortem report was con- Geeta Devi Vs. HDFC Bank . Page: 48/54
 sidered for rejection of the claim. She also admitted
 that they have not verified/checked the validity and
 correctness of documents Ex. PW-1/15 to PW-1/18
 and PW-1/18A and PW-1/18B. She further admitted
 that she cannot say whether the person who is having
 alcoholic disease will not have his health parameters
 as depicted in Ex. PW-1/15 to Ex. PW-1/18B. She
 admitted that the claim was not rejected after consid-
 ering that the deceased had not suffered any heart at-
 tack as specified in the policy document. She stated
 that she is not aware whether the plaintiff has filed
 death claim. She admitted that the claim was rejected
 on the ground of critical illness. 45. However, the onus is upon the plaintiff to show
 that cause of death is covered under any of the criti­
 cal illnesses enumerated in the policy documents. It
 is not in dispute that the claim was repudiated by de­
 fendant no. 2 without even waiting for the viscera re­
 port and as admitted by D2W1, they did not have
 any document that the deceased Himanshu Dhankard
 was suffering from alcoholic liver disease. The pre-
 liminary opinion of the doctor who conducted the
 post mortem was not definite and he had only sus-
 pected the possibility of alcohol liver disease, and
 mentioned that final opinion will be given after the
 viscera report. The hastiness shown by defendant no. Geeta Devi Vs. HDFC Bank . Page: 49/54
 2 in repudiating the claim of the plaintiff is unwar-
 ranted as admittedly they have neither examined the
 doctor before rejecting the claim nor waited for his
 final opinion after the viscera report to decide the ad-
 missibility of the claim of the plaintiff. The claim
 was rejected merely on the basis of the preliminary
 report and therefore, the proper course for the plain-
 tiff was to make a representation either before defen-
 dant no. 2 or before the Insurance Ombudsman as
 appointed by IRDA seeking direction to defendant
 no. 2 for reconsidering the claim. However, instead
 of adopting the said course of action, the plaintiff has
 filed the present suit which in the present circum-
 stances is not maintainable against defendant no. 2
 as no material is before this court to establish that
 the deceased with either not suffering from Alcohol
 liver disease or died due to any of the other critical
 illnesses mentioned in the policy. Hence, Issue no. 3 is decided against the plain-
 tiff. 46. Now , I will take up issue no 4 and 5 together as
 in both the issue relief is sought against defendant
 no. 1
 Issue No. 4. Whether the plaintiff is entitled for
 decree for a sum of Rs.1,90,000/-, as prayed for in
 Clause 5 of the suit? OPP. Geeta Devi Vs. HDFC Bank . Page: 50/54
 Issue No. 5. Whether the plaintiff is entitled for
 damages to the tune of Rs.1 lakh, as prayed for?
 OPP. The plaintiff is claiming that she and her husband
 were forced to pay Rs.1,90,000/­ to defendant no. 1
 when its official reached their house on 15.09.2017
 eventhough the loan amount was covered under the
 insurance policy. However, as discussed above, the
 credit shield cover is not applicable to the facts of
 the case as it is payable only in case of accidental
 death or permanent disability of the insured. The
 defendant no. 1 was entitled to recover the
 outstanding loan amount from plaintiff as she is not
 only co-borrower of the loan but also the legal heir
 of deceased Himanshu. However, the manner in
 which the recovery proceedings were initiated by
 Defendant No.1 is left with much to be spoken about
 as admittedly defendant no.1 was aware about the
 death of Himanshu Dhankard vide letter dated
 01.11.2016 which is Ex.PW1/11 and despite that
 they sent demand notice dated 12.12.2016 in the
 name of deceased / insured threatening to prosecute
 the deceased / insured under Section 138 of
 Negotiable Instruments Act. Not only this defendant
 no.1 had filed petition u/s 9 of the Arbitration and
 Conciliation Act in the District Courts, Dwarka and
 secured ex-parte orders dated 31.08.2017 against the Geeta Devi Vs. HDFC Bank . Page: 51/54
 deceased son of plaintiff without disclosing to the
 Hon'ble Court that Himanshu had already died on
 26.10.2016 and they are aware about that fact. On
 01.03.2017, defendant no. 1 had undertook before
 this Court that they will not repossess the car without
 following the due process of law. But, defendant no.
 1 had not disclosed the pendency of present suit as
 well as the order dated 01.03.2017 before the
 Dwarka Court while obtaining the ex-parte order for
 seizure of the vehicle and went ahead for execution
 of order dated 31.08.2017 of Ld. Dwarka Court by
 reaching the house of plaintiff in the early hours of
 the day and indeed repossess the car which was
 ultimately released to plaintiff from the police
 station when she paid Rs.1,90,000/- towards full and
 final payment of the outstanding loan amount. I find
 force in the argument of Ld. Counsel for Plaintiff
 that action of defendant no. 1 not only smack of
 malafide intention but also borders to the violation
 of the directions passed on 01.03.2017 which may
 warrant appropriate action for such violation. The
 plea of plaintiff that she and her family was harassed
 and humiliated in the locality is apparent on the face
 of the conduct of the officials of defendant no. 1 and
 she is entitled for damages for such conduct of
 officials of defendant No. 1. Hence, Issue no. 4 is
 decided against the plaintiff, but Issue No. 5 is Geeta Devi Vs. HDFC Bank . Page: 52/54
 decided in favour of the plaintiff. 47. Now I shall deal with Issue No. 1 and 2. Issue No.1. Whether the plaintiff is entitled for the
 decree of permanent injunctions as prayed for? And
 Issue No.2. Whether the plaintiff is entitled for the
 decree of mandatory injunction as prayed for? OPP.
 Admittedly, as on date there is no outstanding
 liability of the auto loan as plaintiff had already paid
 Rs.1,90,000/- towards final settlement and car is in
 possession of plaintiff and no fresh effort have been
 made by defendant no.1 to repossess the same.
 Hence, no futher directions are required to be passed
 restraining defendant no 1 qua the car in question.
 However, as a matter of abundant caution, defendant
 no. 1 is directed not to make any attempt to interfere
 in the use and possession of car in question of the
 plaintiff. Hence, Issue No. 1 and 2 are decided in
 favour of the plaintiff. 48. In view of the above discussion and evidence on
 record, the suit of the plaintiff is decreed and
 Defendant No. 1 is directed to pay Rs.1,00,000/- as
 token damages for the harassment caused to plaintiff
 and not to make any attempt to interfere in the use
 and possession of car in question of the plaintiff. Geeta Devi Vs. HDFC Bank . Page: 53/54 49. Decree-sheet be prepared accordingly. File be
 consigned to record room after due compliance. PAWAN Digitally
 by PAWAN
 signed

 SINGH SINGH RAJAWAT
 Date: 2023.08.04
 RAJAWAT 20:48:59 +0530
Announced in (PAWAN SINGH RAJAWAT)
the Open Court ADJ-08 (West)
on 03rd August, 2023. Tis Hazari Court Geeta Devi Vs. HDFC Bank . Page: 54/54