Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:7728 )

 IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH, SHIMLA

 Cr.MP(M) No.188 of 2025
 Reserved on: 20.03.2025
 Date of Decision: 25th March, 2025

 Ajay Kumar ...Petitioner
 Versus

 State of Himachal Pradesh ...Respondent

 Coram
 Hon'ble Mr Justice Rakesh Kainthla, Judge.
 Whether approved for reporting?1 No

 For the Petitioner : Mr. Hemant Kumar Thakur,
 Advocate, vice Mr. T.K. Verma,
 Advocate. For the Respondent : Mr. Lokender Kutlehria, Additional
 Advocate General. Rakesh Kainthla, Judge

 The petitioner has filed the present petition for

 seeking regular bail. It has been asserted that the petitioner was

 arrested vide FIR No. 55 of 2023 dated 04.04.2023 registered at

 Police Station Kangra, District Kangra for the commission of an

 offence punishable under Section 20 read with Section 29 of the

 Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (in short ND& PS

 Act ). As per the prosecution, the petitioner was found in 1 Whether reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the judgment? Yes. Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:7728 )

possession of 1.530 kgs of charas. The petitioner has been behind

the bars for the last 21 months. The matter is listed for

prosecution evidence. His right to a speedy trial is being violated. The petitioner would abide by all the terms and conditions, which

the Court may impose; hence, the petition. 2. The petition is opposed by filing a status report

asserting that the police party was on patrolling duty on

03.04.2023 when a secret information was received that two

persons were moving around New Model Senior Secondary

School, New Kangra, who were intending to sell the charas. The

information was reduced into writing. The police completed the

formalities and reached Botua at about 9:10 pm with the

witnesses where two persons were found sitting on the Atiala

(platform). They revealed their names as Ravi Kumar and Ajay

Kumar (the present petitioner). The petitioner had a backpack,

which was searched and was found to be containing 1.530 kgs of

charas. The police seized the charas and arrested Ravi Kumar and

the petitioner. The petitioner revealed on inquiry that he had

purchased charas from Sohan Singh @ Tiger. Police subsequently

arrested Sohan Singh. The call detail record shows that the

petitioner and Ravi Kumar were talking to each other before the 3 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:7728 )

incident and Ravi Kumar was also in touch with Sohan Singh. The

result of the analysis confirmed the substance to be charas. The

investigation is complete and the matter is pending before

learned Additional Sessions Judge-I, Dharamshala for recording

the statements of remaining witnesses on 22.04.2025. 14

witnesses have been examined in the present case. The petitioner

is the main accused. He was found in possession of a commercial

quantity of charas; hence, the report. 3. I have heard Mr. Hemat Kumar Thakur, learned

counsel for the petitioner and Mr. Lokender Kutlehria, Additional

Advocate General for the respondent State. 4. Mr. Hemant Thakur, learned counsel for the

petitioner submitted that the petitioner is innocent and he was

falsely implicated. There is a delay in the progress of the trial and

the petitioner is entitled to bail on this ground; hence, he prayed

that the present petition be allowed and the petitioner be

released on bail. 5. Mr. Lokender Kutlehria, learned Additional Advocate

General for the respondent/State submitted that the petitioner

was found in possession of a commercial quantity of charas. The 4 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:7728 )

rigours of Section 37 of the NDPS Act apply to the present case

and the petitioner has not satisfied the twin conditions laid down

under Section 37 of the NDPS Act. The petitioner would indulge in

the commission of similar offences, in case of his release on bail; hence, he prayed that the present petition be dismissed. 6. I have given considerable thought to the submissions

made at the bar and have gone through the records carefully. 7. The parameters for granting bail were considered by

the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Ajwar v. Waseem (2024) 10 SCC 768: 8. This position was reiterated in Ramratan v. State of

M.P. , 2024 SCC OnLine SC 3068, wherein it was observed as

under:- 9. This position was reiterated in Shabeen Ahmed versus

State of U.P , 2025 SCC Online SC 479. 10. The present petition has to be decided as per the

parameters laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court. 11. The status report shows that the petitioner was found

in possession of 1.530 kgs of charas, which is a commercial

quantity. 12. Section 37 of the ND& PS Act provides that in an

offence involving commercial quantity, the Court should be

satisfied that the accused is not guilty of the commission of an

offence and is not likely to commit any offence while on bail. Section 37 of the NDPS Act reads as follows: Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:7728 ) (b) no person accused of an offence punishable for
 offences under section 19 , section 24 , or section
 27A and also for offences involving commercial
 quantity shall be released on bail or his bond
 unless- (i) the Public Prosecutor has been allowed to
 oppose the application for such release, and (ii) where the Public Prosecutor opposes the
 application, the court is satisfied that there
 are reasonable grounds for believing that he
 is not guilty of such an offence and that he is
 not likely to commit any offence while on
 bail. (2) The limitations on granting of bail specified in
 clause (b) of sub-section (1) are in addition to the
 limitations under the Code of Criminal Procedure ,
 1973 (2 of 1974) or any other law for the time being
 in force, on granting of bail." 13. This Section was interpreted by the Hon'ble Supreme

Court in Union of India Versus Niyazuddin & Another (2018) 13 SCC

738, and it was held that in the absence of the satisfaction that the

accused is not guilty of an offence and he is not likely to commit

an offence while on bail, he cannot be released. It was observed: Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:7728 ) 8. The accusation in the present case is about the fourth
 factor, namely, commercial quantity. Be that as it may,
 once the Public Prosecutor opposes the application for bail
 to a person accused of the enumerated offences under Section 37 of the NDPS Act, in case the court proposes to
 grant bail to such a person, two conditions are to be
 mandatorily satisfied in addition to the normal
 requirements under the provisions of the Cr.P.C . or any
 other enactment. (1) The court must be satisfied that there are
 reasonable grounds for believing that the person is
 not guilty of such offence; (2) that person is not likely to commit any offence
 while on bail." 14. This position was reiterated in State of Kerala Versus

Rajesh AIR 2020 SC 721, wherein it was held: 20. The scheme of Section 37 reveals that the exercise of
 power to grant bail is not only subject to the limitations
 contained under Section 439 of the CrPC but is also subject
 to the limitation placed by Section 37 , which commences
 with the non-obstante clause. The operative part of the
 said section is in the negative form prescribing the
 enlargement of bail to any person accused of commission
 of an offence under the Act unless twin conditions are
 satisfied. The first condition is that the prosecution must
 be given an opportunity to oppose the application, and the
 second is that the Court must be satisfied that there are
 reasonable grounds for believing that he is not guilty of
 such an offence. If either of these two conditions is not
 satisfied, the ban for granting bail operates. 21. The expression "reasonable grounds" means
 something more than prima facie grounds. It contemplates
 substantial probable causes for believing that the accused
 is not guilty of the alleged offence. The reasonable belief
 contemplated in the provision requires the existence of
 such facts and circumstances as are sufficient in
 themselves to justify satisfaction that the accused is not
 guilty of the alleged offence. In the case on hand, the High
 Court seems to have completely overlooked the underlying
 object of Section 37 that in addition to the limitations
 provided under the CrPC , or any other law for the time
 being in force, regulating the grant of bail, its liberal
 approach in the matter of bail under the NDPS Act is
 indeed uncalled for." 15. A similar view was taken in Union of India v. Mohd . Nawaz Khan, (2021) 10 SCC 100: (2021) 3 SCC (Cri) 721: 2021 SCC

OnLine SC 1237 wherein it was observed at page 110: 22. The standard prescribed for the grant of bail is
"reasonable ground to believe" that the person
is not guilty of the offence. Interpreting the standard of
"reasonable grounds to believe", a two-judge Bench of
this Court in Shiv Shanker Kesari [Union of India v. Shiv
Shanker Kesari , (2007) 7 SCC 798: (2007) 3 SCC (Cri) 505],
held that : (SCC pp. 801-02, paras 7-8 & 10-11)
 "7. The expression used in Section 37(1)(b)(ii) is
 "reasonable grounds". The expression means
 something more than prima facie grounds. It connotes
 substantial probable causes for believing that the
 accused is not guilty of the offence charged, and this
 reasonable belief contemplated, in turn, points to the
 existence of such facts and circumstances as are
 sufficient in themselves to justify the recording of
 satisfaction that the accused is not guilty of the offence
 charged. 8. The word "reasonable" has in law the prima facie
 meaning of reasonable in regard to those
 circumstances of which the actor, called on to act
 reasonably, knows or ought to know. It is difficult to
 give an exact definition of the word "reasonable".
 '7. ... Stroud's Judicial Dictionary, 4th Edn., p. 2258
 states that it would be unreasonable to expect an
 exact definition of the word "reasonable". Reason
 varies in its conclusions according to the
 idiosyncrasy of the individual and the times and 13 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:7728 )

 circumstances in which he thinks. The reasoning
 which built up the old scholastic logic sounds now
 like the jingling of a child's toy.'
 [See MCD v. Jagan Nath Ashok Kumar [MCD v. Jagan
 Nath Ashok Kumar, (1987) 4 SCC 497], SCC p. 504, para
 7 and Gujarat Water Supply & Sewerage
 Board v. Unique Erectors (Gujarat) (P) Ltd. [Gujarat
 Water Supply & Sewerage Board v. Unique Erectors
 (Gujarat) (P) Ltd., (1989) 1 SCC 532] ]
 *** 10. The word "reasonable" signifies "in accordance
 with reason". In the ultimate analysis, it is a
 question of fact, whether a particular act is
 reasonable or not depends on the circumstances in a
 given situation. (See Municipal Corpn. of Greater
 Mumbai v. Kamla Mills Ltd. [Municipal Corpn. of
 Greater Mumbai v. Kamla Mills Ltd. (2003) 6 SCC 315] 11. The court, while considering the application for
 bail with reference to Section 37 of the Act, is not
 called upon to record a finding of not guilty. It is for
 the limited purpose essentially confined to the
 question of releasing the accused on bail that the
 court is called upon to see if there are reasonable
 grounds for believing that the accused is not guilty
 and records its satisfaction about the existence of
 such grounds. But the court has not to consider the
 matter as if it is pronouncing a judgment of acquittal
 and recording a finding of not guilty." (emphasis supplied) 23. Based on the above precedent, the test which the High
Court and this Court are required to apply while granting
bail is whether there are reasonable grounds to believe
that the accused has not committed an offence and
whether he is likely to commit any offence while on bail.
Given the seriousness of offences punishable under the NDPS Act and in order to curb the menace of drug 14 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:7728 )

 trafficking in the country, stringent parameters for the
 grant of bail under the NDPS Act have been prescribed." 16. It was held in Union of India v. Ajay Kumar Singh , 2023

SCC OnLine SC 346 that the bail cannot be granted without

complying with the requirements of Section 37 of the NDPS Act. It

was observed: and (ii) the court is satisfied that there are reasonable
 grounds for believing that he is not guilty of such an
 offence and that he is not likely to commit any such
 offence while on bail. 15. For the sake of convenience Section 37(1) is reproduced
 hereinbelow:-- 16. In view of the above provisions, it is implicit that no
 person accused of an offence involving trade in a
 commercial quantity of narcotics is liable to be released on
 bail unless the court is satisfied that there are reasonable
 grounds for believing that he is not guilty of such an
 offence and that he is not likely to commit any offence
 while on bail. 17. It was held in State of Meghalaya v. Lalrintluanga Sailo,

2024 SCC OnLine SC 1751 that the grant of bail without

considering Section 37 of the NDPS Act is impermissible. It was

observed: 6. While considering the cases under the NDPS Act , one
 cannot be oblivious of the objects and reasons for bringing
 the said enactment after repealing the then existing laws
 relating to Narcotic drugs. The object and reasons given in
 the acts itself reads thus:-- 7. In the decision in State of Kerala v. Rajesh (2020) 12 SCC
122, after reiterating the broad parameters laid down by this Court to be followed while considering a bail
application moved by an accused involved in offences
under the NDPS Act , in paragraph 18 thereof this Court
held that the scheme of Section 37 of the NDPS Act would
reveal that the exercise of power to grant bail in such cases 17 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:7728 )

 is not only subject to the limitations contained under Section 439 of the Code of Criminal Procedure but also
 subject to the limitation placed by Section 37(1)(b) (ii), NDPS Act . Further, it was held that in case one of the
 two conditions thereunder is not satisfied, the ban for
 granting bail would operate. 8. Thus, the provisions under Section 37(1)(b)(ii) of
 the NDPS Act and the decisions referred supra reveal the
 consistent view of this Court that while considering the bail
 application made by an accused involved in an offence
 under NDPS Act a liberal approach ignoring the mandate
 under Section 37 of the NDPS Act is impermissible.
 Recording a finding mandated under Section 37 of
 the NDPS Act, which is a sine qua non for granting bail to an
 accused under the NDPS Act , cannot be avoided while
 passing orders on such applications.". 18. In the present case, there is sufficient material on

record to show the involvement of the petitioner in the

commission of the crime. 19. There is no material on record to show that the

petitioner would not commit a similar offence in case of his

release on bail. Therefore, the twin conditions laid down in Section 37 of the NDPS Act are not satisfied in the present case. 20. It was submitted that there is a delay in the progress

of the trial. This is not acceptable. The status report shows that 14

witnesses have been examined. The copies of the order sheets

filed by the petitioner show that the charges were framed on

05.01.2024. Statements of two witnesses each were recorded on 18 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:7728 )

18.04.2024 and 19.04.2024, and the statement of one witness

each was recorded on 15.07.2025 and 19.02.2025. The matter is

listed for recording the statements of prosecution witnesses on

22.04.2025. These order sheets do not show any delay in the

progress of the trial, therefore, the plea that the petitioner is

entitled to bail on the ground of delay is not acceptable. 21. In view of the above, the petitioner is not entitled to

bail; hence, the present petition fails and the same is dismissed. 22. The observations made hereinabove are regarding the

disposal of this petition and will have no bearing, whatsoever, on

the case's merits. (Rakesh Kainthla)
 Judge
 25th March, 2025
 (saurav pathania)