This is a charge sheet filed by the PSI of Sanjay Nagara

PS against the accused for the offences Punishable U/Sec.

341, 323, 504, 506 and 354 of IPC . 2. The prosecution case in brief is as follows: 3. After filing of charge sheet accused appeared before this

Court he was enlarged on bail. Charges were framed for which

they have claimed to be tried. 4. In order to prove its case the prosecution got examined

only one witness. It has relied upon Ex.P1 and P2 documents

on its behalf. The statement of the accused under Section 313 Cr.P.C was dispensed with as there were no incriminatory

materials against them. The accused has not preferred to lead

their evidence. 5. Heard both sides. 6. The following point would arise for my determination: 7. My findings on the above points are as under: 8. Point No.1 to 4:­ Since these points are inter connected

with each other, and to avoid repetition of facts, they are taken

up together for discussion. 9. The prosecution in order to prove its case, got examined

the injured first informant as PW­1. During his chief­

examination PW­1 has completely turned hostile to the case of

prosecution. He was thoroughly cross­examined by Ld. Sr.

APP but nothing material is elicitated from his mouth. Since

absolutely there were no incriminatory materials against the

accused the prayer of learned Sr. APP to issue summons to

remaining witnesses was turned down by this Court. 7 C.C.No.2385/2019 10. The first informant PW­1 during his chief examination

has completely disowned his Ex.P­1 first information

statement given before the police. He has refused to admit that

the accused filthily abused and assaulted him with hands and

iron punch. He further refused to admit that the accused

criminally restrained him and held out life threat. He has also

refused to admit the drawing up of mahazar as per Ex.P.2. He

has admitted that his relationship with accused is

compromised, but he refuses to admit that due to the said

compromise he is deposing falsely before this Court. Merely

because the accused and injured have compromised their

strained relationship, does not mean that the parties have

compounded the offence. The manner in which he has

completely turned hostile to the prosecution case would create

a strong doubt with regard to the happening of the alleged

incident. 11. It is to be noted here that accused and PW­1 had civil

dispute with regard to loan transaction. But the said dispute

is now sorted out. May be the present case is foisted at that

point of dispute time by exaggerating the facts. As PW­1 had

fully turned hostile, there was no purpose to examine

remaining witnesses. Their examination would be futile to get

the order of conviction by the prosecution. Moreover the

valuable time of this Court would be saved for disposal of

other matters. In this regard it is necessary to refer to the

decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Sathish

Mehra v. Delhi Administration and another reported in 1996(9)

SCC 766. In the said case it is held at Para­15 that when

there is no prospect of the case ending in conviction the

valuable time of the court should not be wasted for holding a

trial only for the purpose of formally completing the procedure

to pronounce the conclusion on a future date. No doubt the 9 C.C.No.2385/2019 said decision was in respect of an application seeking

discharge, but the observation made therein is very much

applicable to the case in hand. As such this Court declined the

prayer of Learned Sr. APP to issue summons to remaining

witnesses. 12. It is an accepted principle of law that the burden of

proving the guilt of the accused beyond reasonable doubt is

solely rested on the shoulders of the prosecution. A small

doubt created against the prosecution case is sufficient to

acquit the accused. As PW­1 who is the material witness has

completely turned hostile to the case of prosecution, more

than a reasonable doubt is created against prosecution case.

Thus the prosecution has failed to prove the ingredients of the

alleged offences beyond reasonable doubt. Accordingly, point

No.1 to 4 are answered in Negative. 13. Point No.5:­ For the findings stated above this Court

deems fit to pass the following: