DATED : 7TH JANUARY, 2019
 P.C. : According to the applicant, the rival contentions are whether the

assets/properties of partnership firms are that of individual partners to

extent of their respective shares or whether the assets/properties are

partnership assets and they form stock in trade. Mr.Vashi submitted that a

partnership firm not being an independent legal entity, the real owners of the 2/41 ::: Uploaded on - 09/01/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 11/01/2019 06:25:43 ::: nmt172.18.odt

assets of the partnership firm are partners and the assets of the partnership

belong to and are owned by partners and each partner is owner of the assets

to extent of his share in the partnership. It is contended that unlike a

company registered under the Companies Act , a partnership firm is not a

separate legal entity. According to Mr.Vashi, it is not disputed that some

properties forming part of the partnership firms were personal assets of the

deceased and the said properties were bequeathed to the grandson Siddharth,

who was not a partner in the firms and was a minor at the material time.

According to the applicant, the Will mandated that these properties be put in

a Trust for benefit of the minor and appointed continuing partners as the

Executors of Will of the deceased. Mr.Vashi submitted that the plaintiff was

"entrusted" by the deceased with the properties and the plaintiff was

responsible to ensure that the properties were protected and preserved for

benefit of his son and the plaintiff was to expeditiously seek probate of the

Will for the sake of the beneficiaries including his son and to formally

establish a trust for his son. The plaintiff was required to establish a trust

after obtaining orders of the Competent Court, maintain accounts of the trust

and seek opinion, advice or direction of the Court in respect of management

of the trust and also pay for education of the minor, his maintenance and

advancement in life. He submitted that nothing adverse to the interest of

beneficiaries could be done and trust properties certainly could not be used

for benefit of the plaintiff. According to the applicant if the plaintiff was 3/41 ::: Uploaded on - 09/01/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 11/01/2019 06:25:43 ::: nmt172.18.odt

desirous of selling properties from the estate, it can only be dealt with after

obtaining probate, forming a trust and upon seeking further permission and

consent of the appropriate Court, whereas the plaintiff in breach of trust and

by manipulation had diverted and dealt with 140 valuable properties. 4. Mr.Vashi submitted that although the partnership deeds provided

for the effect of demise of a partner and allowed the partnerships to continue

it does not exempt the plaintiff from complying with laws governing Trusts

and because the deceased bequeathed the properties to a minor and mandated

formation of a trust. He submitted that at the end of 2013 after making

enquiries and obtaining certified copies of Index II in relation to some of the

sale deeds, the applicant was able to ascertain that there has been gross

mismanagement, conversion and diversion from the estate of deceased

resulting in an immense fraud on the estate. He contended that in the

partnership firm known as M/s.S.R. Corporation, there were only two

partners and upon death of the testator, the firm stood dissolved but the

plaintiff formed another partnership with same name and dealt with and

disposed of properties of the original partnership firm. Siddharth was a

minor and one of the properties of M/s.S.R. Corporation was under valued to

Rs.15 lakhs and purchased by the plaintiff. The plaintiff allegedly took

advantage of the fact that Siddharth was minor and the properties of other

firms were also disposed of. All partnership firms were dissolved, six weeks

prior to Siddharth attaining majority by executing dissolution deeds. The 4/41 ::: Uploaded on - 09/01/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 11/01/2019 06:25:43 ::: nmt172.18.odt

implied authority of the partnership has been abused and rents in excess of

Rs.33 lakhs per month were being collected by the plaintiff in parallel firms. 5. It is the case of the applicant that apart from these properties

agricultural income accrues from about 100 acres of land for 14 years and

are required to be collected. Valuable property of 61 acres had been fenced

and the plaintiff's wife has managed to include her name as part owner of

this property. A penthouse situated at Valsad has been usurped by the

plaintiff. It is further contended that the Will has conflicting provisions in

respect of the property described in clause 5(b)(v) and by virtue of Section 88 of the Indian Succession Act the property is legally owned by the applicant's

son, yet that very property has been let out in the name of widow of deceased.

Although the applicant and Siddharth have not pursued legal action against

the mother and this property must be handed over to the applicant's son, who

is the rightful owner. 6. Mr.Vashi also submitted that he has filed testamentary petition

No.1868 of 2016 wherein the appointment of the executors have been

challenged and their removal has been sought and in anticipation of such

removal, the applicant has sought grant of Letters of Administration. That

petition has since been converted into suit being Testamentary Suit No.19 of

2017. He submitted that pending litigation between parties it is necessary

to preserve and safeguard the property. The probate petitioner is named as

"trustee", the two other executors have filed caveats in order to convert the 5/41 ::: Uploaded on - 09/01/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 11/01/2019 06:25:43 ::: nmt172.18.odt

litigation into contentious one and the executors in collusion with one

another have no intention of seeking probate but have merely filed caveats

and supporting affidavits within days of each other having filed their

affidavits inter alia challenging their own appointment as the executors.

He submitted that a criminal complaint has been filed in the Magistrate's

Court and process has been issued. 7. Mr.Vashi relied upon a decision of the Supreme Court in Sharad

Subramanyan vs. Soumi Mazumdar & Ors. 1 according to the applicant the

Will being only evidence of the executor's title pursuant to section 211 and

since under section 213 the executor cannot exercise right except after

grant of probate, since the probate petition is now converted to suit, there is

no occasion for the plaintiff to deal with the estate in manner he has.

According to Mr.Vashi there is no proper person to receive the assets. He

further relied upon decision in a case of Pandurang Shyamrao Laud and

Others vs. Dwarkadas Kalliandas and Others 2 to contend that appointment of

the administrator is justified since neither of contesting parties is said to be

in lawful and undisputed possession of the property. He further submitted

that the Will grants substantial benefit to grandson of the deceased and

a case has been made out for an appointment of the receiver. It is

contended that the plaintiff has suppressed existence of applicant's son

Siddharth in the probate petition although he was a direct beneficiary under

1 AIR 2006 SC 1993
2 1932 SCC Online Bom. 154 6/41 ::: Uploaded on - 09/01/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 11/01/2019 06:25:43 ::: nmt172.18.odt

the Will. He submitted that a plain reading of the Will establishes this fact

and suppression of the names of Siddharth and other grand children is an

attempt to obtain a probate through fraud. It is submitted that the properties

will have to be ascertained and legal proceedings will have to be adopted

for recovery of properties lost to the estate, including by the actions of the

executors and trustees. After ascertaining the properties, rents and license

fees will have to be collected, tax will have to be paid, investment made and

maintenance will have to be undertaken. According to Mr.Vashi, conduct of

the plaintiff would justify appointment of the administrator. According to

Mr.Vashi he has no quarrel with contents of the Will i.e. properties

bequeathed but has serious objections against the executors appointed. 8. Mr.Vashi further submitted that in order to protect the party, who

ultimately succeeds in the above petition and Testamentary Suit No.19 of

2017 it is appropriate that an administrator be appointed and not

appointing the administrator would amount to pre-judging the issues raised

in this petition and exposing the estate to risk of loss and damage in face of

serious allegations by and against parties and it is for that reason the

applicant has sought Letter of Administration and in the meantime sought

to protect the right to administer the estate. In the case of Manek Dara

Sukhadwalla vs. Shernaz Faroukh Lawyer 3 an administrator came to be

appointed and in the facts of the present case an appointment of the

administrator was justified. He further submitted that the Supreme Court in
3 Appeal (L) 7/2014 dt.8.8.2014 7/41 ::: Uploaded on - 09/01/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 11/01/2019 06:25:43 ::: nmt172.18.odt

the case of Shambhu Prasad Agarwal vs Bhola Ram Agarwal 4 had concluded

that the appeal ought not to be dismissed on technical grounds and that even

after 14 years having elapsed after demise of testator, the beneficiaries are

still awaiting to administer the estate. According to Mr.Vashi

notwithstanding dispute between parties it is necessary to protect the estate

and therefore appoint an administrator pendente lite. 9. Opposing the application, Mr.Purohit relied upon written

submissions on behalf of his clients and submitted that in 1984, the plaintiff

completed Bachelor of Mechanical Engineering and in the year 1986 he

commenced work in the partnership by the name of K. Sameer and

Associates. The firm was engaged in construction business and consisted of

the plaintiff one Mr.Hasmukh Ruparelia and Mr.Mukesh Mehta as the

partners. The firm was dissolved in or about year 1985/1986. Thereafter six

other firms were set up in the name of : submitted that the firm was set up in the year 1987 by four partners and

after the deceased testator retired from the Central Bureau of Investigation

(CBI), Hindu Undivided Family (HUF) was set up by the deceased and the

deceased was inducted as partner in M/s.Samrock Construction and he had

25% share. After death of the deceased. M/s.Samrock Construction was

dissolved in 2010 and as provided in the Will 25% share of Mr.R.P. Vashi

was bequeathed to Mr.Sameer Vashi and Mr.Siddharth Vashi equally

resulting in share of the plaintiff going up to 37.5%. As provided in the

partnership deed, remaining partners continued to carry on business of

the firm since balance stock in trade had to be disposed and remaining

partners were ready to provide the share of Mr.Siddharth Vashi after 9/41 ::: Uploaded on - 09/01/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 11/01/2019 06:25:43 ::: nmt172.18.odt

accounts were made up. It is further contended that the accounts were

maintained in electronic form. 11. As far as the second firm is concerned, 50% share held by the

deceased was bequeathed in favour of the plaintiff and Mr.Siddharth Vashi

equally. The share of the plaintiff has therefore risen to 40% and as per the

partnership deed, the firm continued to be in business in disposing of balance

stock in trade and remaining partners were ready and willing to provide

Mr.Siddharth Vashi his share. The third firm M/s.S.R. Construction consisted

of two partners. The funds required by M/s.S.R. Construction were

reportedly brought in by Mr.Sameer Vashi and Mr.Vinod Shah in ratio of

75% and 25% and the deceased was inducted in the firm in the year 1989

after his retirement from CBI. The share of deceased was 37.5% and was

provided by the plaintiff from his share of 75%. In the year 2000, Mr.Vinod

Shah retired and that left the plaintiff and his late father with 50% share

each. The firm stood dissolved on demise of the testator and this legal

position would prevail and the executor is now ready and willing to

handover the share of deceased to Mr.Siddharth Vashi as on death and subject

to accounts being drawn up. It is submitted that the firm was reconstituted

with the plaintiff holding share of 75% and the plaintiff's wife holding

25%. Mr.Purohit submitted that Mr.Siddharth Vashi being a beneficiary

in the Will has no right in the reconstituted firm. 12. M/s.Samrock Developers is not a partnership firm but a 10/41 ::: Uploaded on - 09/01/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 11/01/2019 06:25:43 ::: nmt172.18.odt

proprietary concern of the plaintiff and as such the deceased has no share or

interest in the firm. There is no mention of the said firm in the Will. The

other entity known as M/s.R. Sameer and Associates is a partnership firm

but the deceased was not partner of the said firm and had no interest therein.

According to Mr.Purohit, the Will incorrectly mentions that the deceased

was a partner and it does not mention the share in partnership firm, if any,

held by the deceased. Mr.Purohit submitted that the applicant's son

Mr.Siddharth Vashi will have share only in some of the partnership firms and

in which the deceased had a share. In this respect Mr.Siddharth Vashi has

already filed a suit for administration of being Suit No.181 of 2014 claiming

a share in the properties left by the deceased since said Siddharth is only

beneficiary and not the applicant, Siddharth's exact share will be ascertained

in the course of time and the present applicant has no cause of action to seek

any relief on account of alleged failure to pay the share of said Siddharth.

He submitted that the testamentary Court could only decide whether the

executor proves execution of the Will and if so whether probate should be

granted. In absence of a Will, a testamentary Court can grant the letter of

administration and in testamentary petition which is converted into suit, no

interim relief could be granted. Even otherwise, the applicant is not entitled

to relief since he has filed a caveat challenging the Will. Since it is contended

that Mr.Siddharth Vashi was deprived of the share by Mr.Sameer Vashi and

other executors and in order to obtain any relief, the applicant would have 11/41 ::: Uploaded on - 09/01/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 11/01/2019 06:25:43 ::: nmt172.18.odt

to withdraw the caveat. According to Mr.Purohit, cause of action to claim

the share in the partnership firm arose upon demise on 6th November, 2003

and any proceedings claiming such share should have been filed within three

year from the date of demise. In the present case the beneficiary Mr.Siddharth

Vashi, has not filed caveat but has filed an administration suit. According to

Mr.Purohit since Siddharth was minor at the time of demise of the testator,

the period of limitation would commence on the said Siddharth attaining

majority and therefore, would have commenced in the year 2010. In such

case even the suit would be barred by law of limitation and, therefore, an

administrator cannot be appointed in the facts and circumstances of the

case. 13. Mr.Purohit submitted that the motion proceeds on erroneous basis

that the partner has a right in the assets of the partnership firm when a

partner only has a right to dissolution and accounts. The firm cannot be

dissolved on account of demise of the testator since these firms provided for

continuation of business. The firm which provides for continuation of

business cannot be dissolved on demise of the testator and the applicant is

claiming on behalf of his son and therefore, cannot claim a right higher than

the deceased. According to Mr.Purohit the deceased has no independent

right in the assets of firm. He relied upon judgment of the Calcutta High

Court in a case of Sudhirendra Nath Mitter vs. Arunendra Nath Mitter 5

5 AIR 1952 Cal 418 12/41 ::: Uploaded on - 09/01/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 11/01/2019 06:25:43 ::: nmt172.18.odt

wherein well known judgment of English case Horrell vs. Witts was

referred which sets out that where the deceased at the time of his death was

in partnership with another person, an administrator "pendente lite" should

usually be appointed. It is submitted that Testamentary Petition No.1560 of

2013 was filed by the present applicant and was converted into a

testamentary suit No.16 of 2014, but the applicant has not joined his

mother, who is widow of the testator and his two sisters as party defendants

and it appears that the applicant is treating litigation as one between him

and his brother. Furthermore, the widow of the deceased and one of the

sister of the applicant, namely, Sonali Chetan Shah (nee Sonali Ramesh

Vashi) were the partners of various firms and, therefore, they are necessary

for taking accounts of different partnership firms, yet the applicant has not

joined them as parties to the testamentary suit. 14. Mr.Purohit submitted that apropos the partners' interest in the

assets of firm it is well known that concept of partnership is one of joint

venture. All properties including immovable properties brought into the

joint venture ceased to be exclusive property of the person who brought it

in. These properties are treated as the assets of firm and the partners have

interest in proportion to their share in joint venture of the business

partnership. In joint venture business, there is no exclusive right of the

property brought in or over any other property of the partnership. The

partners are only entitled to get a share of profits from time to time and 13/41 ::: Uploaded on - 09/01/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 11/01/2019 06:25:43 ::: nmt172.18.odt

upon retirement or death to get value of the share in the net partnership,

asset as on date of dissolution or retirement after adjusting liabilities. He

submitted that if individual partners are only entitled to share of profits

accruing to partnership, there was no occasion to claim a share and that the

partnership firm not being legal entity has no separate existence. The

partners of the firm could not treat any property of the firm as his or her

personal property and only right is to receive profits that may accrue.

Mr.Purohit further contended that a partner has direct interest in property of

the partnership firm to extent of his/her share is contrary to basic concept

of partnership since the right of a partner is only a right to share in the

profits. When a firm is dissolved its partner has right to share value of the

assets after discharging all liabilities and where the partnership firm

continues the outgoing partner or his estate is entitled at the option of such

outgoing partner or his representatives to such share of profits made since

he ceased to be a partner and as may be attributable to use of his share of the

property of the firm or to interest at the rate of 6% per annum. He submitted

that when immovable property is stock in trade of a partnership firm the

same could not be converted into capital asset except by the agreement of

the parties upon dissolution of the firm. Thus, even upon dissolution, an

erstwhile partner is only entitled to the money value of his share in the

assets of firm after discharging all liabilities. Thus, for accounting and

taxation purposes, an immovable property that is a trading asset of the firm 14/41 ::: Uploaded on - 09/01/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 11/01/2019 06:25:43 ::: nmt172.18.odt

is treated as stock in trade of the firm and not as a capital of individual

partner and upon dissolution, it does not convert itself into a capital asset

except if the partners so agree. 15. Mr.Purohit submitted that in case of the firms that continue, no

administrator pendent lite could be appointed. The heirs of the deceased

cannot get a higher right than one granted under the Partnership Act, 1932 and in the instant case, the applicant has no right vesting in him to interfere

with the partnership business and if partnership is continued in law. In that

view of the matter, he submitted that the partnership could continue.

Mr.Purohit submitted that the application lacks bonafides. He submitted that

the applicant allegedly referred to fraudulent transaction, last of which

pertain to the year 2013 makes it evident that there has been unexplained

delay in seeking relief in this application. The Motion is taken out in

August 2018. The applicant has not filed any suit or other proceedings

challenging alleged acts which were fraudulent. None of the transactions

entered into have been assailed in other legal proceedings. 136 transactions

referred to are with third parties who are since put in possession of these

premises and in any case third party purchasers, who are not parties to the

present application cannot be made to suffer. Furthermore, the applicant's

son Siddharth Vashi has filed a suit and the applicant as a party defendant

has supported applicant's son's case. The relief sought in the suit deals with

very issues which are now highlighted. Issues have been framed in the suit 15/41 ::: Uploaded on - 09/01/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 11/01/2019 06:25:43 ::: nmt172.18.odt

and the applicant's son Siddharth proposes to lead evidence. The applicant

can always rely upon on all evidence that he has at the trial of suit. 16. Mr.Purohit submitted that there is no bonafide dispute relating to

validity of the Will and hence section 247 of the Indian Succession Act will

not be attracted. The appointment of Sameer Vashi as an executor is not

disputed. He submitted that Sameer Vashi was not required to establish any

family trust for benefit of the applicant's son and since the partnership

business could continue, there was no question of requiring any prior

approval of the Court while dealing with assets of partnership. He submitted

that the accounts have been maintained in digital form and are available.

That each partner and partnership firm had also filed their tax returns and

that grievance is made by the applicant. In beneficiary Siddharth Vashi's

suit, an application was made for the appointment of the Court Receiver

which has been declined and in the fact and circumstances of the case, an

administrator cannot be appointed merely because the applicant has filed

caveat in respect of documents which the applicant claims to be forged. 17. Mr.Purohit denied that Sameer Vashi was liable for education and

maintenance of the applicant's son. The plaintiff has not benefited personally

by partnership assets in discharge of his functions as an executor. He has

only entitled to his share. As far as the applicant's son's share is concerned,

accounts have been maintained and there is no ground made out to alleged

violation to any of the provisions. As far as various properties are 16/41 ::: Uploaded on - 09/01/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 11/01/2019 06:25:43 ::: nmt172.18.odt

concerned, Mr.Purohit sets out in tabulated form as to how 140 properties

have been dealt with. 44 properties have been sold by Sameer Vashi as a

proprietor of M/s.Samrock Developers in which the deceased had no

interest. 2 properties at Serial No.66 and 72 has been purchased by the

plaintiff as proprietor of M/s.Samrock Developers. Those have not been sold

and have no connection with the estate of deceased. 34 properties belonging

to M/s.Samrock Constructions wherein deceased's HUF had 25% share is

part of business of the firm which continues. 20 properties belong to

M/s.Siddharth Builders and Developers in which deceased had 20% share

and HUF has 20%. The said firm business also continues. 6 other properties

belong to M/s.S.R. Corporation which firm stands dissolved and 50% share of

the deceased is distributed equally between the plaintiff and Siddharth

Vashi. The stock in trade of firm is disposed and after taking accounts, the

plaintiff is ready to pay over 25% share to said Siddharth. The properties at

Item Nos.56 and 112 belong to M/s.S.R.Corporation and new partnership

firm, wherein the plaintiff and his wife are partners. The premises at Serial

No.82 has been purchased by the plaintiff in his individual capacity and

has been erroneously mentioned in the Will. Mr.Purohit submitted that in

paragraph 11(c) in the applicant's submission an averment has been made

pertaining to a duplex property which is purchased for Rs.15 lakhs,

although it was purchased for Rs.50 lakhs to the applicant's knowledge. He

submitted that difference in cost if at all attributed to under valuation could 17/41 ::: Uploaded on - 09/01/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 11/01/2019 06:25:43 ::: nmt172.18.odt

be Rs.7.5 lakhs. This in any event has not been challenged in any suit or

other legal proceedings. With regard to property at Serial Nos.112, 113 and

114, it is submitted that the deceased has no interest in the same.

Furthermore, some other properties such as those at Item Nos.115 and 116

stand in the name of M/s.S.R. Corporation and Ayesha Vashi respectively. 18. M/s.S.R.Corporation is a partnership firm consisting of the plaintiff

and his wife Ayesha Vashi and the deceased had no interest in these

properties. As far as property at Item Nos.117, 118 and 119 are

concerned the properties in question belongs to M/s.R.Sameer and

Associates. The deceased never had interest in these properties. The

property at Item No.120 consists of four plots of land, two of which belong

to the plaintiff and one to the deceased and one plot has been bequeathed to

Ayesha Vashi. He, therefore, submitted that none of the allegations hold

water and some of the properties in Gujarat particularly those referred in

paragraph 5(b)(i) and 5(b)(ii) were sold with consent of heirs of the

deceased including the applicant. The sale proceeds of which were

distributed including to said Siddharth Vashi, whose share was paid over to

the applicant. It was submitted that the applicant has also executed a Power

of Attorney in favour of the plaintiff to complete the transaction in question.

He submitted that the applicant was a beneficiary of one shop premises

under the Will which was sold with help of the plaintiff and the applicant is

under guise of seeking to protect his son's share is trying to control over the 18/41 ::: Uploaded on - 09/01/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 11/01/2019 06:25:43 ::: nmt172.18.odt

assets of deceased. 19. Apropos to allegations that M/s.Samrock Construction ought not to

have commenced business as a proprietary concern, Mr.Purohit submitted

that there is no requirement in law that new agreements to develop properties

should be carried out with existing partnership or proprietary concern and

grievance, if any, can be made only by existing partners and that at the

material time, the partners had no such grievance. Making specific reference

to allegation in paragraph 17 of the written submissions filed by the

applicant to the effect that Mrs.Ayesha Vashi had managed to include her

name as part owner of land admeasuring 61 acres, Mr.Purohit submitted

that this allegation is baseless. It is submitted that the plaintiff and deceased

had purchased farmland in their respective names as well as in the name of

other family members. The deceased was co-owner with other family

members and it is not appropriate to appoint an Administrator or Receiver in

view of the fact that the deceased only had undivided share in that property

which will be accounted for. In the meanwhile a plot of land has been

purchased by the plaintiff and his wife in their personal name in which the

deceased had no share and it is in respect of this plot that the allegations are

sought to be made. He submitted that there is no basis for such

complaints/allegations. 20. In respect of allegations that Mrs.Padmaben Vashi and the plaintiff

are illegally collecting rent in respect of shop premises which the applicant 19/41 ::: Uploaded on - 09/01/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 11/01/2019 06:25:43 ::: nmt172.18.odt

claims to be handed over to Siddharth Vashi, it is submitted that

Mrs.Padmaben is not a party to the Testamentary Suit or Notice of Motion

taken out by the applicant and, therefore, there was no question of passing

any order in that respect. Moreover the Will contains a bequest in respect of

shop premises at Viral Apartment in favour of Mrs.Padmaben during her

lifetime and after her death the shop premises would go to Mr.Siddarth

Vashi. During her lifetime Mrs.Padmaben is entitled to all benefits of the said

property and hence there is no substance in the contention. 21. In rejoinder, the applicant submitted that the estate has been

interfered with and the plaintiff has acquired his own properties out of the

estate. Inconvenient aspects when pointed out are sought to explained as

mistakes in the Will and the plaintiff has misused his authority. It is

submitted that there are no errors in the Will and it is the plaintiff, who has

misused his authority to manipulate and usurp certain properties. The

contention of the plaintiff that there are errors in the Will merely indicate

his malafide intention. That under Sections 180 and 181 of the Indian

Succession Act whether or not the testator's believes certain property to be

of his ownership is immaterial. No benefit can be derived under the Will if

the executor has denied the title of deceased. The applicant submitted that

there are no errors in the Will and he has no objections to bequests and has

no objection to the testator's wishes being carried out. However, in the instant

case, he states that the plaintiff is not a fit and proper person. He submitted 20/41 ::: Uploaded on - 09/01/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 11/01/2019 06:25:43 ::: nmt172.18.odt

that although reliance was placed on a decision of the Single Judge of this

Court in case of Rupali Mehta (supra), that was a case in which injunction

and receiver of the property was sought under the Code of Civil Procedure and that is not consistent with the Indian Succession Act since the probate

Court was not concerned with the title. In the instant case, appointment of

the Administrator pendente lite was imperative since the deceased had

acquired properties from his own earnings and this fact has been clearly

stated in the Will. The plaintiff, therefore, could not deny the title of

deceased, either he relinquishes his post as an executor of the Will or an

administrator must be appointed since other two executors being sisters of

the applicant and the plaintiff have also filed caveats and they are also

interested in frustrating administration of the estate of deceased. That the

three executors have made efforts to usurp estate of the deceased and this

fact is evident from the amended probate petition. He submitted that

amendments have resulted in under valuation of the estate and that the

name of Siddharth Vashi has now been struck of. 22. The applicant contested value of the estate referred to in Schedule I

and submitted that the deceased had additional stake in M/s.Siddharth

Builders and Developers, a partnership firm, being Karta of HUF. According to

the applicant, the executor dealt with property without his consent and

that the Power of Attorney granted to executor has been fabricated and

misused. The applicant further submitted that as regards the property 21/41 ::: Uploaded on - 09/01/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 11/01/2019 06:25:43 ::: nmt172.18.odt

bearing Survey No.439 which has been bequeathed to him will have to be

recovered, however, since this property had admittedly been disposed of and

the applicant has 1/5th share in the property, he submits that the Power of

Attorney granted in 2005 was in respect of property bearing Survey

No.435 which remains unsold. It is further contended that the plaintiff has

refused to provide partnership details of certain firms. This aspect, however

may not survive since during the hearing at suggestion of Court, the plaintiff

had agreed to handover the copies of the partnership deeds which had thus

far being handed over to the applicant. Mr.Vashi submitted that Schedule I

of amended probate petition grossly under values the property and the real

market value is far higher. I do not consider it necessary to deal with each

of the properties, save and except that from submissions made by the

applicant, it is clear that explanation offered on behalf of the plaintiff has

been disputed. In substance, he submits that the properties of deceased

have been mismanaged by the plaintiff to usurp the properties and to

plunder entire estate of the deceased. 23. The applicant reiterates that his application is not for replacing the

plaintiff as a partner of the firm but to replace him as an executor due to

gross misconduct. He submitted that the plaintiff ought to have filed a civil

suit after recusing himself from an executorship. The plaintiff has allegedly

failed to comply with wishes of the testator and has misappropriated the

properties, manipulated the estate and inter alia engaged in falsification of 22/41 ::: Uploaded on - 09/01/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 11/01/2019 06:25:43 ::: nmt172.18.odt

accounts. The applicant submitted that if an executor acts in derogation of

the Will and in manner prejudicial to interest of the estate, beneficiaries are

not helpless and they can assert their rights under the Will without filing

probate petition and by filing a suit. The applicant has no quarrel with the

Will. The thrust of this argument is that bequest made in favour of his son

must be safe guarded and trust should have been formed. This argument

overlooks the fact that the applicant's son had filed a suit for administration

of the property. Although the applicant is not directly affected, he contends

that the plaintiff has questioned the testator's bonafides, capabilities and

contribution to the family. That the testator had affinity for landed and

agricultural properties and had acquired large properties in or around

Valsad in Gujarat. The applicant claims to hold undivided interest in the

properties from his father via family arrangement and that these properties

have been purchased many years ago and are much more valuable today. He

submitted that although Late father (testator) was a CBI officer, he had

retired pre-maturely in 1989 and took charge of all the partnership firms.

That the deceased had qualified as a lawyer but rarely practiced. The testator

took over control from the plaintiff and all the firms flourished for next 14

years and till time of his demise. The deceased was the brain behind the

partnership firms and has therefore, commenced business in the name of

his son (plaintiff) and it was not correct that the deceased was inducted in

the partnership business after his retirement. He submitted that upon 23/41 ::: Uploaded on - 09/01/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 11/01/2019 06:25:43 ::: nmt172.18.odt

retirement from service, the deceased took over all affairs and was at helm of

business. He controlled the firms with help of his wife Padmaben and the

daughter Sonali. 24. According to the applicant, the plaintiff was not given any

importance and out of vengeance, the plaintiff has now proceeded to take

charge of entire assets and his actions were directed against the deceased's

intention as a result of which other beneficiaries are now victims of such

vendetta. He submitted that the plaintiff had secreted the Will and when

family members asked him about its contents, he finally filed the Petition for

probate. That numerous emails right from the year 2004 revealed his

"destructive" attitude that the plaintiff maintained a facade of innocence and

the probate petition was not filed until December 2013 and only when the

suit was filed by Siddharth Vashi. He submitted that the decision in Rupali

Mehta (supra) and Ishwardeo Narain Singh (supra) did not support the

plaintiff's case. The applicant repeated that he has no quarrel with contents

of the Will but has serious objections to the executor acting and disposing

the properties as such intention of the plaintiff is evident from the fact that

the applicant's son Siddharth's share has been admitted, but the plaintiff now

claims albeit invincibly that the suit filed by Siddharth is time barred. In any

event this Court has exclusive jurisdiction to replace the executor. He

submitted that the plaintiff and other executors are in possession of the trust

properties. The trustees are disputing the rights of Siddharth Vashi who is a 24/41 ::: Uploaded on - 09/01/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 11/01/2019 06:25:43 ::: nmt172.18.odt

beneficiary and the plaintiff as an executor is not carrying out his duties

including consolidation of the properties. The plaintiff is duty bound to

administer the estate and handover properties to all beneficiaries including

the trust properties. 25. I have heard both sides at length. As a part of written submissions,

the applicant has filed a statement dealing with individual properties,

however, prior to dealing with the same, it is appropriate that the contents of

Will are perused. The contents of Will are being undisputed. It would be

appropriate that the same is scrutinised. The Will is in English and records

the fact that previous Will dated 11th May, 2002 has been revoked. Sameer

Vashi, Seema Desai and Sonali Shah are appointed as the executors and

trustees of the estate. Clause (3) of the Will sets out that the testator is

possessed of movable and immovable property described in the annexures.

The properties are required to be disposed of as per testator's directions.

Clause 5(b)(iv) sets out that the applicant had declared that he would not

enter testator's house during the lifetime. Clause 5(b)(v) bequeaths Shop

No.11 at Viral Apartment to the widow during her lifetime and thereafter to

Siddharth Vashi, after he attains majority. Clause 5(b)(vii) bequeaths shop in

the building known as "Madhukunj" to the applicant. Clause 5(b)(c) list

out 4 partnership firms and bequeaths all benefits accruing from the said

firms to the plaintiff and the applicant's son Siddharth in equal proportion.

Siddharth Vashi is entitled to his part of the estate on attaining age of 25/41 ::: Uploaded on - 09/01/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 11/01/2019 06:25:43 ::: nmt172.18.odt

majority and till such time the assets are to be held by the plaintiff and his

wife Ayesha jointly. As far as the bank accounts are concerned, the Will

provides that the widow of deceased and the plaintiff will have right to

operate all accounts after his demise. Siddharth Vashi was permitted to

operate after he attains the age of majority. If the widow pre-deceased the

deponent, her right will go to Siddharth Vashi after he attains majority,

however, this is not now relevant. 26. Apropos fixed deposits and funds invested, clause (6) provides that

all monies will be divided equally between widow of the plaintiff, Sameer

Vashi and Siddharth Vashi upon attaining the age of majority. Provision is

made for dealing with funds in the event widow predeceased the testator,

however, that is not now relevant. Further bequest of Rs.5,00,000/- is made

to each of grand children and the widow Mrs.Padmaben is entrusted with

this task. Vide clause (9) the shares held in public limited companies are

required to be given to the plaintiff and Siddharth Vashi in equal proportion.

A valuable wrist watch has been bequeathed to the applicant. This being

position, upon examining whether the application was justified, it is

necessary to bear in mind that the applicant had not disputed the contents

of Will. In that view of the matter one must take note of the fact that

Siddharth Vashi is now a major and has filed Suit No.181 of 2014. In that

suit he has arrayed the plaintiff and his wife, his grand-mother (widow of

the deceased), present applicant and two daughters of the deceased as the 26/41 ::: Uploaded on - 09/01/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 11/01/2019 06:25:43 ::: nmt172.18.odt

defendants. Siddharth Vashi filed Notice of Motion No.301 of 2014 in the

suit filed by him in which an application was made for removal of Sameer

Vashi as an executor of deceased's Will. Apart from request for removal of

Sameer Vashi as an executor, the applicant sought appointment of an

administrator and interim relief restraining defendant nos.1 and 2

therein, Sameer Vashi and his wife Ayesha from dealing with and disposing of

any property. A statement has been recorded on behalf of the said defendant

that without prejudice to the rights and contentions they would not create

any third party rights in respect of property referred therein. Certain other

statements in respect of partnership firms have also been recorded. 27. Thus, as far as the applicant is concerned, the bequest in his favour

is limited to one shop premises in the building known as "Madhukunj" and

one wrist watch. It is not in dispute that in respect of the shop premises if the

applicant had granted a Power of Attorney in favour of the plaintiff herein

and that Power of Attorney has been acted upon. The applicant having

accepted the contents of Will, the basis of the challenge cannot be

appreciated inasmuch as his grievance is to manner in which his brother

Sameer Vashi, an executor has conducted himself. Admittedly, the applicant

has no other stake in the estate, save and except the interest of his son

Siddharth, who has since attained majority and is a beneficiary in his own

right. Siddharth Vashi has also filed a suit as noted above. The suit is

pending disposal in this Court and interim application is still awaiting 27/41 ::: Uploaded on - 09/01/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 11/01/2019 06:25:43 ::: nmt172.18.odt

disposal. The present application for appointment of the administrator in my

view does not make out any case, given the fact that interest of the

applicant as a beneficiary has already been taken care of and in relation to

which he has no grievance. Assuming that action has been taken at the

instance of his son Siddharth Vashi, no ground has been made for grant of

relief. It will however be open for Siddharth Vashi to urge all aspects of his

case. 28. The respondent has resisted attempts to let the applicant peek into

partnership deeds but pursuant to a suggestion of this Court, Mr.Purohit

has on instructions agreed to provide the copies of all partnership deeds and

this would have been done by now. Such a disclosure is the least that the

executor must honour. It is settled law that probate Court is not concerned

with the title of the partnership properties. These are not matters that could

be gone into in this application since the applicant is not beneficiary of any

of the benefits of partnership and it is his son Siddharth Vashi, who is one of

the beneficiaries who has taken steps for administration of the estate and this

will take its own course unaffected by the application. 29. Apropos contentions of the applicant relating to the properties and

as set out in his written submissions, it is his case that ancestral property

referred to in paragraph 5(a) of the Will is in all likelihood still undivided.

His contention relating to properties in Annexure "A" to the Will is that they

are probably bequeathed to the applicant also in addition to Sameer Vashi, 28/41 ::: Uploaded on - 09/01/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 11/01/2019 06:25:43 ::: nmt172.18.odt

widow of deceased Mrs.Padmaben and two sisters Seema and Sonali.

Similarly in relation to the Orchard property at Valsad railway yard, plot of

land at Valsad and another plot known as "Dhedawala-Wado" admeasuring

4 acres, it is his contention that these properties are also probably

bequeathed to him. Thus, it is merely the applicant's suggestion that it may

be "possibly" be bequeathed to him. Once having affirmed the contents of

Will, it is difficult to appreciate the contention of the applicant that he has

share in immovable properties in Valsad and Mumbai as well. The grievance

of the applicant is that in relation to these four properties the accounts have

not been provided and the probate petitioner has incorrectly contended that

he is not a beneficiary of property at "Tekra". The ancestral properties of

which particulars are listed is at Annexure "A" is seen to be bequeathed to

the deceased's two sons and two daughters and his wife, all of whom will

have equal share and therefore, the applicant is likely to have 1/5th share in

these properties. 30. As regards property at Annexure "B" to the Will, the applicant states

that these are self acquired properties of the deceased and son Siddharth has

rights in all properties except the plot of land admeasuring 29 gunthas

forming Item No.2 of Annexure "B" and the plot described at Item No.10

and the plot of land at Item No.12 and shop at Item No.13 being bequeathed

to the applicant and which has already been dealt with. The applicant has

contended that the properties are being undervalued by the plaintiff 29/41 ::: Uploaded on - 09/01/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 11/01/2019 06:25:43 ::: nmt172.18.odt

Considering the fact that Siddharth Vashi has already filed a suit wherein

he seeks relief, in my view the value of the properties as canvassed by the

applicant before me will not be of relevance in this application. 31. As regards Annexure "D", they deal with bank accounts wherein

the applicant has no stake but his son Siddharth has a stake. It is only the

applicant's son Siddharth who will benefit from the bequest and the

applicant's contention is that there are false claims being made. The

applicant's contention that misappropriation as to extent of the deceased's

share is not relevant considering the fact that there is no other bequest in

favour of the applicant. In respect of the other items in the Will in

paragraph 6, 7, 8, 9, 11 and 12, no bequest is made in favour of the

applicant. As far as the wrist watch is concerned, the applicant admits that

he is in possession of the same and there is no dispute in relation to that. In

my view, mere submission that there are bonafide disputes in relation to the

estate and that there is misconduct on the part of the plaintiff and others who

are named as the executors in the facts of the present case do not justify grant

of relief in this application. As far as the applicant's interest in the bequest is

concerned, since the shop and wrist watch have been dealt with, all that

remains is his share in the ancestral property in relation to which reference is

to be found in paragraph 5(a) of the Will. 32. Mr.Vashi has relied on two compilations of judgments of various High

Courts and one of the Supreme Court which are as follows and I propose to 30/41 ::: Uploaded on - 09/01/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 11/01/2019 06:25:43 ::: nmt172.18.odt

deal with the said judgments as under : Petition No.54/2012 dt. 11th October, 2013; (xiv) Mukesh R. Gokal and Anr. vs. Ashok Jagjivan Gokal and Ors. Misc.

Petition No.66 of 2013 dt. 11th October, 2013; 31/41 ::: Uploaded on - 09/01/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 11/01/2019 06:25:43 ::: nmt172.18.odt ( xv) Radhika Bhargava and Ors. vs. Arjun Sahgal and Ors. 2017(3)

Mh.L.J.212; ( xvi) F.C.S. Amalnathan and Ors. vs. J.S. Victor Basco AIR 1995. Kant. 258;

( xvii) Sharad Subramanyan vs. Soumi Mazumdar & Ors. AIR 2006 SC 1993;

(xviii) Watkins vs. Brent 1 Mylne & Craig 97; ( xix) Manek Dara Sukhadwalla vs. Shernaz Faroukh Lawyer & Ors. Appea

(L) No.7 of 2014 dt. 8th August, 2014; (xx) N. Khadervali Saheb (Decd.) & Ors. vs. N.Gudu Sahib (Decd) & Ors. AIR

2003 SC 1524; ( xxi) V.Subramaniam vs. Rajesh Raghuvandra Rao AIR 2009 SC 1858; 33. In Shambu Prasad Agarwal (supra) the Supreme Court was

considering dismissal by the High Court of the Revision Petition of the heirs

of Appellant. By the said order, the High Court confirmed an order of

dismissal passed by the trial Court of an application for substitution and

amendment of the legatee's probate petition, even though the Appellant could

have filed for issue of letters of administration. The Supreme Court held that

the appeal of the Appellant should not have been dismissed on such a

technical ground and the matter was remanded to the trial Court after

substitution and amendment. 34. In Dhanabakkiyammal (supra) the High Court of Madras set aside

the order of dismissal of application under section 301 of the Indian 32/41 ::: Uploaded on - 09/01/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 11/01/2019 06:25:43 ::: nmt172.18.odt Succession Act to remove an executor. The Court found that if the character

of the Executor has ceased and he merely becomes a trustee he might be

removed from his position as a trustee but if he continued to be executor, he

could not be removed. That was the law prior to the Succession Act coming

into force and that by virtue of section 301 the executor can be removed. Smt. Karam Devi (supra) relied upon Dhanabakkiyammal (supra) holding

that the High Court alone was empowered to remove the executor In Jadeja

Pravinsinhji (supra) the Gujarat High Court considered a Civil Revision

Application against the order passed by the Civil Judge, Senior Division

allowing an amendment of a prayer by the substituted applicant in a probate

case. The substituted applicant was not an executor and was not entitled to

probate but could only be entitled to letters of administration with the Will

annexed. It is in these circumstances, that the prayer in the original probate

petition was sought to be amended. The Revision Application was directed

against the order, allowing the amendment. It was contended before the

High Court that the Revision Application is supported on the ground that the

right to probate is a personal right to the executor and this right does not

survive on death of the executor and therefore abated. This aspect was

considered by the High Court which held that action for probate is

representative action and the object of the executor was to get adjudication

not of any dispute in which he is personally interested but the object is to

propound the Will of the deceased for the benefit of those who have interest 33/41 ::: Uploaded on - 09/01/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 11/01/2019 06:25:43 ::: nmt172.18.odt

under the Will. The Gujarat High Court found that the maxim actio

personalis moritur cum persona cannot apply to such a case since it is not a

personal action. It is possible to carry on probate proceedings after demise

of the executor that the prayer must be then for letters of administration with

the will annexed. 35. The same view was taken by the earlier bench of the Madras High

Court in the case of Rama Naidu vs. Rangayya Naidu (AIR 1933 Madras 114). A different view was, however, been taken by the Calcutta High Court

in Sharat Chandra Banerjee vs. Nani MohanBanerjee (ILR 36 Cal.799) in

which the Court observed that upon demise of the executor an application

on behalf of his widow be substituted in its place was rejected. This view,

however, does not find agreement with the learned Single Judge of the

Gujarat High Court and it was held that the substitution of the opponent was

proper. I do not see how this judgment is relevant in the facts of the present

case. 36. In Govind Asrani (supra) the Madras High Court had occasion to

consider inherent power of the Court and to take note of subsequent events

and to mould reliefs. This once again is a case where the executor of Will

has expired. In case of P.B. Srinivasan (supra) the Madras High Court

considered the question whether two Petitioners, the second son and wife of a

predeceased son of the testator are entitled to have the Respondent removed

from executorship and entitled to possession of some equipment. The 34/41 ::: Uploaded on - 09/01/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 11/01/2019 06:25:43 ::: nmt172.18.odt

leasehold rights in respect of equipment were in issue and the Court found

that the facts of the case warranted exercise of discretion vested in section

301 of the Succession Act and considering the conduct, the Court held

against the Respondent and allowed the Petition, removing the Respondent

from the office as an executor. In Satidas Mukherjee (supra) a Single

Judge of the Calcutta High Court had an occasion to consider the issue

whether the Court had inherent power to mould reliefs on basis of altered

conditions to ensure that justice is done and in the facts of that case the

Court allowed the application permitting conversion of proceedings for

grant of letters of administration. It follows the decision in Shambu Prasad

Agarwal (supra). 37. In Smt.Shanti Devi (supra), the Punjab and Haryana High Court

considered an application for removal of the executor on the basis that the

respondents are misappropriating the properties of the trust and the purpose

of the trust was not being fulfilled. The facts revealed that the deceased

executed a trust deed and a supplementary trust deed and later bequeathed

his properties in favour of the trust. The dispute arose between the

claimants. It was contended that the Court could not determine the issues of

title. The Court held that it was not deciding the issue of title and had

exercised power to remove the executor. The trustees were quarreling over

whether or not the properties were owned by the trust or not. Considering

the multifarious duties of the executor, the Court appointed an executor, 35/41 ::: Uploaded on - 09/01/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 11/01/2019 06:25:43 ::: nmt172.18.odt

who was also the Managing Trustee. Additionally the Respondents were also

accounted and the Board of Trustees were to govern the properties.

However, the Court retained control over sale of the properties in hand. In Ramjee Pandit (supra) the Patna High Court considered the case where the

original applicants/plaintiffs have filed the probate case as an executor

when, in fact, they were legatees and had interest in the Will. The case was

one where the executor had expired and the heirs could not be

substituted in place. The case of Shambu Prasad Agarwal (supra) was

followed in that case as well. In Tara Chand Sharma (supra) the Court

considered the question of removal of trustees. 38. In Vatsala Srinivasan (supra) this Court considered whether sole

beneficiary under Will can seek substitution instead and in place of

executor who has died during pendency of testamentary proceedings. The

issue was similar to one raised in Shambu Prasad Agarwal (supra) and in

the facts of that case, this Court followed the decision in Shambu Prasad

Agarwal (supra) and also expressed approval of decisions of the Division

Bench of Madras High Court in Rama Naidu (supra) and Govind Asrani (supra). The Court observed that under the Succession Act , the proceedings

for grant of probate and for grant of letters of administration with the will

annexed is initiated for protecting the interest of legatees under the will. Both

the proceedings were same relating to genuineness and authenticity of the

will and there is no conceivable reason as to why the law must be regarded as 36/41 ::: Uploaded on - 09/01/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 11/01/2019 06:25:43 ::: nmt172.18.odt

prohibiting a beneficiary from seeking to continue the proceedings upon

death of the sole executor and as incidental thereto for seeking formal

conversion of the proceedings from one for the grant of probate to one for

the issuance of letters of administration. Reliance is also placed to the case of Ramchandra Ganpatrao Hande (supra) in which the Division Bench of this

Court held that the probate Court cannot go into the issue of title. It can

only be decided by the Civil Court. I do not see how these decisions are of

any assistance to the applicant. 39. In Mukesh R. Gokal (supra) a Single Judge of this Court had an

occasion to consider the order of Prothonotary and Senior Master of this

Court permitting the Respondent to amend probate granted by this Court.

The petition was filed to correct mis-description of the property. The

challenge was to grant of amendment. The Court considered the fact that

probate has already been granted on the basis of the original application and

held that the Additional Prothonotary ought not have granted the

amendment without notice to all other beneficiaries and in the facts and

circumstances of that case was to protect the applicants against certain

action against the applicants and the order came to be set aside. I do not

see how this judgment is of any assistance to the applicant. 40. in Mukesh Gokal (supra) wherein the Petitioners sought removal of

Respondents as the Executors and Trustees, the Court placed reliance upon

numerous decisions cited earlier including Tarachand Sharma (supra) and 37/41 ::: Uploaded on - 09/01/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 11/01/2019 06:25:43 ::: nmt172.18.odt Shanti Devi (supra) and on the facts found that executors were liable to be

removed. In yet another case of Radhika Bhargava (supra) a Single Judge of

this Court while deciding an application for removal of the respondents as

the executors of Will of one Malati Srivastava who died unmarried with no

lineal descendants, the Court observed that section 301 contains a twin

provision. The provision is not simpliciter for removal of an executor but it

is coupled with a power to make provision for a successor. The Court

considered two questions, whether the petitioner seeking probate, a person

who has filed a caveat, as the applicants have, can at all seek the removal of

a probate petitioner as an executor and whether in a probate petition, a

caveator can in addition seek to supplant the named executor by some

other person. The Court while upholding that application was misconceived

and that they were at liberty to take such steps culled out propositions to

the effect that an application under section 301 of the Succession Act could

only be made to the High Court, that it can be made at any time during

pendency of a probate petition or one for Letters of Administration with or

without Will annexed. The grant of probate or letters of administration is not

a pre-condition. The application under section 301 can be made only by a

beneficiary or legatee who accepts the Will and not by one who seeks to

dislodge the Will and contests the application for probate. 41. In F.C.S. Amalnathan (supra) the Karnataka High Court rejected a

petition for removal of the Respondent as an executor and dismissed the 38/41 ::: Uploaded on - 09/01/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 11/01/2019 06:25:43 ::: nmt172.18.odt

petition under Section 301 since on facts the Court found that removal of the

Respondent as an executor was not warranted. I do not see how this

decision is of any assistance to the applicant. In Watkins vs. Brent (supra),

the Court found that in a suit filed in the Ecclesiastical Court for recalling

the probate could not be ground to interfere to restrain the executor from

receiving the assets. The Court considered the facts and held that there is no

ground for interference. 42. In Manek Sukhadwalla (supra) on facts the Court found it proper to

appoint an Administrator. The factual matrix in that case was compelling

and I do not see how in the present case the decision in Manek

Sukhadwalla (supra) is of any assistance to the applicant. Finally, in the case

of N.Khadervali Saheb (supra) the Supreme Court considered a pure question

of law viz. whether an award by which residue assets of the partnership

firm were distributed amongst the partners on dissolution of the firm,

requires registration. The Court held that the award did not require

registration and objections to the award were rejected and the award was

made an order of the Court with decree to follow. I do not see how this

decision is of any assistance to the applicant. 43. In V. Subramaniam (supra) the Supreme Court considered the effect

of non registration of partnership firm inter alia holding that in view of

Sub-section 2A to Section 69 a partner in an unregistered firm cannot file

suit for dissolution or for accounts of dissolved firm unless duration of the 39/41 ::: Uploaded on - 09/01/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 11/01/2019 06:25:44 ::: nmt172.18.odt

firm was only six months or its capital is upto Rs.2000/- only. So firm is not

separate legal entity and the property of the firm belongs to its partners. 44. Mr.Vashi would submit that applying the said principle in the instant

case, the property of firm belongs to its partners and hence benefits of estate

have been denied to beneficiaries. That the properties of firm would have

vested in his father as well, who was partner of the firm and was therefore

entitled to be dealt with accordingly. Having considered all the above, I am

of the view that the various judgments cited do not assist in the facts of this

case. The Applicant has stated that he has no quarrel with the contents of the

will and has also benefited from a couple of bequests. 45. In conclusion, I may observe that it is the applicant's case that vide

family agreement dated 30th June, 1969 these properties were divided

amongst six brothers including the deceased out of which four properties

came into hands of the deceased and all his brothers have been dealing with

the partitioned properties as their own. The applicant has relied upon a

copy of family arrangement and contends that in probate petition, the

plaintiff has not bothered to ascertain this fact and continues to be under

impression that these properties are still undivided. In any event it is for the

plaintiff to ascertain this. Although the written submissions refers to

Annexure "A" being a copy of family agreement it does not appear to be

annexed. Annexure "A" to the written submissions is a copy of the additional

affidavit of Sameer Vashi. Be that as it may, in the event that the applicant is 40/41 ::: Uploaded on - 09/01/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 11/01/2019 06:25:44 ::: nmt172.18.odt

entitled to a part of the said undivided property, the parawise response deals

with individual properties and the plaintiff is bound to ensure that 1/5th

share of the family members are duly safeguarded. As far as interest of the

applicant's son is concerned, Mr.Purohit has already submitted that son's

share will be provided for. In any event this is subject matter of the suit. For

all the aforesaid reasons, I am of the view that the applicant has not made out

a case for grant of any relief in this motion. In this view of the matter no

further directions are called for. Needless to mention the order passed in this

motion shall not in any manner affect the right of the Applicant's son

Siddharth Vashi in proceedings pending and any that he may adopt. 46. I therefore pass the following order : (A.K. MENON,J.) 41/41 ::: Uploaded on - 09/01/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 11/01/2019 06:25:44 :::