1 Leave granted. 2 This appeal is against an order dated 11 September 2019 passed by the High

 Court granting anticipatory bail to the appellant, subject to the condition of

 deposit of Rs 41 lakhs in court and upon his furnishing personal bond in the

 sum of Rs 50,000 with one solvent surety in the like amount to the

 satisfaction of the arresting officer. It was directed that the order would be

 governed by condition Nos 1 to 3 of sub-Section 2 of Section 438 of the Code

 of Criminal Procedure. The trial court was directed to deposit the amount so

 deposited by the appellant with any nationalized bank.

 3 Ex facie, the disputes in the instant case are civil in nature. It is the

 contention of the complainant that despite having paid Rs 41 lakhs to the

 appellant pursuant to an agreement for purchase of agricultural land, the Signature Not Verified appellant has not executed the deed of sale in respect of the same. It Digitally signed by appears that the complainant has also filed a civil suit for specific
Chetan Kumar
Date: 2021.01.20
16:08:52 IST
Reason: 4 By imposing the condition of deposit of Rs. 41 lakhs, the High Court has, in

 an application for pre-arrest bail under Section 438 of the Criminal Procedure

 Code, virtually issued directions in the nature of recovery in a civil suit. 5. It is well settled by a plethora of decisions of this Court that criminal

 proceedings are not for realization of disputed dues. It is open to a Court to

 grant or refuse the prayer for anticipatory bail, depending on the facts and

 circumstances of the particular case. The factors to be taken into

 consideration, while considering an application for bail are the nature of

 accusation and the severity of the punishment in the case of conviction and

 the nature of the materials relied upon by the prosecution; reasonable

 apprehension of tampering with the witnesses or apprehension of threat to

 the complainant or the witnesses; reasonable possibility of securing the

 presence of the accused at the time of trial or the likelihood of his

 abscondence; character behaviour and standing of the accused; and the

 circumstances which are peculiar or the accused and larger interest of the

 public or the State and similar other considerations. A criminal court,

 exercising jurisdiction to grant bail/anticipatory bail, is not expected to act as

 a recovery agent to realise the dues of the complainant, and that too,

 without any trial. 6 We accordingly modify the order impugned before us by deleting the

 direction to deposit Rs 41 lakhs as directed by the High Court. Needless to

 mention, the grant of anticipatory bail shall be governed by the conditions in Section 438(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure.
SLP(Crl) 10484/2019 3 7 The appeal is accordingly disposed of. 8 Pending applications, if any, stand disposed of. ….....…...….......………………........J.
 [Indira Banerjee]

 ..…....…........……………….…........J.
 [Sanjiv Khanna]

 New Delhi; Petition(s) for Special Leave to Appeal (Crl.) No.10484/2019

(Arising out of impugned final judgment and order dated 11-09-2019
in MCRC No.36553/2019 passed by the High Court of M.P. at Indore)

DILIP SINGH Petitioner(s)

 VERSUS

THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH & ANR. Respondent(s)

(With appln.(s) for IA No.175761/2019 - EXEMPTION FROM FILING O.T.)

Date : 19-01-2021 These matters were called on for hearing today.

CORAM :