Claiming to be an investor in the ponzi scheme run by financial

 establishment C.U. Marketing, a firm, the petitioner has filed the present Special

 Leave Petition challenging the order dated 15.02.2023 passed by the High Court

 of Judicature at Bombay, which is between entirely different parties and the

 present petitioner in this Special Leave Petition has no concern with the same. As

 such, the petition is accompanied by an application seeking permission to file Signature Not Verified Special Leave Petition. Digitally signed by GEETA AHUJA Date: 2023.03.22 14:12:23 IST Reason: 1 2. From the pleadings it appears that the main grievance of the petitioner is

that the Bombay High Court ought to have considered the plight of investors who

have been waiting for decades to receive the deposits and ought to have directed

attachment of properties of all the concerned persons referred to in Section 4 of

the Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors Act in Financial

Establishments Act, 1999 (hereinafter referred to as ‘ MPID Act ’). 3. Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the properties of all the

persons concerned with the C.U. Marketing firm ought to have been attached by

the State, even if the amount of investor’s deposit with the firm was not

transferred to many of such persons referred to in Section 4 . According to him, the

properties of the financial establishment alone was not sufficient to repay the

deposits. Hence, such directions ought to have been passed. 4. It is pertinent to note at this stage that the Special Leave Petition does not

disclose any details against any of the Directors or other officers of the marketing

firm who may have received any amount out of the deposits made by the investor

with the financial establishment. In other words, there are no allegations to

demonstrate the existence of financial trail to the persons whose property the

petitioner seeks to be attached by the State. 5. Learned counsel for the petitioner further submits that the law in this regard

stands settled by authoritative pronouncement in the case of K.K. Baskaran Vs. 2 State,1 which has been subsequently followed in the case of State of

Maharashtra Vs. 63 Moons Technologies Ltd., 2. He further submitted that the

judgment of the Bombay High Court in the matter of Chandraprakash

Wadhwani Vs State of Maharashtra, Criminal Writ Petition No. 849/2018

decided on 29.08.2018 does not lay down the correct law and has taken an

erroneous view by restricting the scope of Section 4 for attachment of properties

in the hands of only such persons to whom any money out of deposits is actually

traced or reasonably suspected. It is also submitted that the impugned order

dated 15.02.2023 passed by Bombay High Court is patently erroneous in failing to

take into account the fact that properties of all such connected persons, even if no

amount was transferred to them out of the deposits received by the financial

establishment was liable to be attached and has committed a manifest error of

law failing to issue such directions to the state. 6. We have considered the argument. 7. MPID Act , provides for measures of attachment of the properties of the

financial establishment as well as mala fide transferees and to bring these

properties to sale for realisation of dues payable to the depositors speedily. All

mala fide transferees, whether a promoter, director, partner, manager, member or

any other person can also be sought to be covered under the scope of MPID Act for attachment and sale for realisation of the dues of investors.

1(2011) 3 SCC 793
2(2022) 9 SCC 457 3 8. In the case of K.K. Baskaran Vs. State (Supra ), this court while considering

the validity of the Tamil Nadu Protection of Interests of depositors (in Financial

Establishment) Act, 1997 disagreed with the view of the Bombay High Court

declaring the MPID Act as unconstitutional. This court further observed that

though there are some differences between Tamil Nadu Act and the Maharashtra

Act but there are very minor differences, hence, the view being taken will also

apply in relation to Maharashtra Act . 9. It may be relevant to reproduce the following observations made by this

court:- 10. The aforesaid judgment in the case of K.K. Baskaran Vs. State (Supra ),

has also been followed by this court in 63 Moon Technologies (Supra), while

deciding the question whether NSEL is a financial establishment and on the

issue of constitutionality of MPID Act after referring to the relevant bye-laws of

NSEL, came to the conclusion that NSEL receives “deposits” and defined by 5 Section 2(c) of the MPID Act and was therefore a “financial establishment” and

upheld the constitutional validity of the said act. 11. It may be relevant to extract the following observations from the

judgment in the case of 63 Moons Technologies Ltd. (Supra) :- State of Maharashtra, (2012) 10 SCC 601], [State of
Maharashtra v. Vijay C. Pulijal, (2012) 10 SCC 599], so
that there is now a parity between the judgments
relating to the Maharashtra Act and the Tamil Nadu Act. 59. […] The objects of the Tamil Nadu Act, the
Maharashtra Act and the Pondicherry Act being the same
and/or similar in nature, and since the validity of the
Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra Act have been upheld the
decision of the Madras High Court in upholding the
validity of the Pondicherry Act must be affirmed. We
have to keep in mind, the beneficial nature of the three
legislations which is to protect the interests of all 7 depositors, who invest their life’s earnings and savings
 in schemes for making profit floated by unscrupulous
 individuals and companies, both incorporated and
 unincorporated.”

 Following the decision in Bhaskaran (supra), the challenge to the
 Pondicherry enactment on the ground of legislative competence was
 repelled. 56. The validity of the MPID Act was specifically dealt with in two
 decisions of this Court in State of Maharashtra v. Vijay C. Pulijal and Sonal Hemant Joshi v. State of Maharashtra . In both the decisions,
 this Court upheld the constitutional validity of the MPID Act in view
 of the earlier decision in Bhaskaran (supra). In Soma Suresh Kumar
 v. Government of Andhra Pradesh , a two judge Bench of this Court
 upheld the provisions of the Andhra Pradesh Protection of
 Depositors of Financial Establishments Act, 1999 following the
 earlier decisioins in Bhaskaran (supra) and New Horizons Sugar Mills
 Limited (supra). 57. Having discussed the judgments of this Court on the
 constitutional validity of the state legislations governing financial
 establishments offering deposit schemes, including the MPID Act ,
 there is no reason for us to reopen the question. This Court has held
 that the MPID Act is constitutionally valid on the grounds of
 legislative competence and when tested against the provisions of
 Part III of the Constitution.” 12. The Judgment of the Bombay High Court in the case of 8 Chandraprakash Wadhwani Vs State of Maharashtra (Supra), also depicts

the same ratio of providing an attachment of the properties of financial

establishment and all mala fide transferees as held in K.K. Bhaskaran (Supra) and affirmed by 63 Moon Technologies (Supra). It may be relevant

to extract the following observations from the judgment in K.K. Bhaskaran:- 13. It is also to be taken note of that the aforesaid observations made in the

case of Chandraprakash Wadhwani Vs State of Maharashtra (Supra), has been

affirmed by this court in IA No. 193395/2022 in WP (Civil) No. 995/2019-NSEL Vs

Union of India & Ors vide order dated 23.01.2023 by observing as under :- 14. The view taken by the Bombay High Court in the case of Chandraprakash 10 Wadhwani Vs State of Maharashtra (Supra), is in consonance with the view taken

by a Nine Judges Constitutional Bench of this court in the case of Attorney

General Vs Amratalal Prajivandas 3. In the said case, while considering the

constitutional validity of the provisions of SAFEMA, this Court observed as

follows:- We may proceed to explain what we say. ……………. It would
thus be clear that the connecting link or the nexus, as it may
be called, is the holding of property or assets of the
convict/detenu or traceable to such detenu/convict. Section 4 is equally relevant in this context. It declares that “as from the
commencement of this Act, it shall not be lawful for any person
to whom this Act applies to hold any illegally acquired property
either by himself or through any other person on his behalf”.
All such property is liable to be forfeited. The language of this
section is indicative of the ambit of the Act. Clauses (c) and (d)
in Section 2(2) and the Explanations (2) and (3) occurring
therein shall have to be construed and understood in the light
of the overall scheme and purpose of the enactment. The idea
is to forfeit the illegally acquired properties of the
convict/detenu irrespective of the fact that such properties are
held by or kept in the name of or screened in the name of any 12 relative or associate as defined in the said two Explanations.
The idea is not to forfeit the independent properties of such
relatives or associates which they may have acquired illegally
but only to reach the properties of the convict/detenu or
properties traceable to him, wherever they are, ignoring all the
transactions with respect to those properties. ……...In this
view of the matter, there is no basis for the apprehension that
the independently acquired properties of such relatives and
associates will also be forfeited even if they are in no way
connected with the convict/detenu. …. It is equally necessary
to reiterate that the burden of establishing that the properties
mentioned in the show-cause notice issued under Section 6 ,
and which are held on that date by a relative or an associate of
the convict/detenu, are not the illegally acquired properties of
the convict/detenu, lies upon such relative/associate. He must
establish that the said property has not been acquired with the
monies or assets provided by the detenu/convict or that they in
fact did not or do not belong to such detenu/convict. We do not
think that Parliament ever intended to say that the properties
of all the relatives and associates, may be illegally acquired,
will be forfeited just because they happen to be the relatives or
associates of the convict/detenu. There ought to be the
connecting link between those properties and the
convict/detenu, the burden of disproving which, as mentioned
above, is upon the relative/associate. In this view of the
matter, the apprehension and contention of the petitioners in
this behalf must be held to be based upon a mistaken premise.
The bringing in of the relatives and associates or of the persons
mentioned in clause (e) of Section 2(2) is thus neither
discriminatory nor incompetent apart from the protection of
Article 31-B.” (emphasis supplied by us) 13 15. Thus, the judgment of the Bombay High Court in Chandraprakash

Wadhwani Vs State of Maharashtra cannot said to have taken erroneous view in

contradiction to the judgments of this court rendered in the K.K. Baskaran Vs.

State (Supra ) or 63 Moon Technologies (Supra). On the contrary, the said

judgment is in consonance with the principles laid down in the case Attorney

General Vs Amratalal Prajivandas (Supra). 16. In view of the above facts and discussions, we do not find any force in the

contention of the petitioner that while passing the impugned order, the Bombay

High Court ought to have issued a direction to the State to attach the properties

of all concern persons connected with financial establishment C.U. Marketing. 17. Though, it is a matter of great concern for us also that investors have not

received the deposit back even after decades but that cannot constitute a

ground to accept the argument that untainted properties of other persons who

have not received any amount from or out of deposits made by the investors

ought to be attached and liquidated. 18. Apart from the above, even though the petitioner claims to be an investor

but that does not entitles him to challenge any interregnum order passed by the

High Court in an independent proceeding between two different persons totally

unconnected to him. 14 19. Thus, permission sought by the petitioner seeking leave to file Special

Leave Petition is refused, as a consequence the Special Leave Petition is

dismissed. …...................J.
 (KRISHNA MURARI)

 .....................J.
 (SANJAY KAROL)

NEW DELHI; SPECIAL LEAVE PETITION (CRIMINAL) Diary No(s). 10560/2023

(Arising out of impugned final judgment and order dated 15-02-2023
in CRLA No. 1127/2018 passed by the High Court Of Judicature At
Bombay)

RAVINDRA SHAH Petitioner(s)

 VERSUS

STATE OF MAHARASHTRA & ORS. Respondent(s)

(IA No.53042/2023-EXEMPTION FROM FILING C/C OF THE IMPUGNED JUDGMENT
and IA No.53044/2023-PERMISSION TO FILE PETITION)

Date : 17-03-2023 This petition was called on for hearing today.

CORAM :