K.K. Balu, Vice-Chairman 1. The Central Government has filed this company petition under Section 408 of the Companies Act, 1956 ("the Act") seeking for appointment of Government directors on the Board of M/s. DSQ Software Limited (" the Company"), following the contraventions and non-compliances and the financial irregularities under the various provisions of the Act, noticed during the course of inspection in March and October 2000, of the books of account and other records of the Company under Section 209A and as borne out by the qualifications made by the auditors in their report dated 17.01.2001, forming part of the balance sheet of the Company as at 31-12-2000. 2. The various statutory contraventions and irregularities in the affairs of the Company enumerated by the learned Additional Solicitor General and . replies thereof of Shri Arvind P. Datar, learned Senior Counsel made at the time of oral submissions are as under: 3. The learned Additional Solicitor General, while concluding his arguments pin pointed the various offences wilfully committed by the Company establishing the fact that the affairs of the Company are being conducted in a manner prejudicial to the interests of the Company and its shareholders. The Company and its directors could be saved from penal provisions by compounding the various offences, which cannot operate as res judicata for appointment of Government directors on the Board of the Company invoking Section 408 . The Managing Director is absconding. There are no responsible directors to pursue the prudent financial management protecting the interests of the Company and its shareholders. The Company has not declared dividend since the year 2001. The irregularities set out in the company petition are either not disputed or satisfactorily explained. SEBI by an order dated 27.02.2003 on the basis of the findings of an investigation carried out under the provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 debarred the Company from dealing in securities market for a period of five years, which has been affirmed by the Securities Appellate Tribunal in its order dated 15.10.2004. The current status of the Company on record showing losses with least number of employees and not being able to meet the statutory obligations of any kind, justifies the plea of the Central Government to supersede the present board of directors and appoint Government directors on the Board of the Company. The learned Additional Solicitor General relied on the following decisions: 4. Shri Datar, learned Senior Counsel in his reply submitted that the entire case of the Central Government is based on the qualifications made by the auditors in their report forming part of the balance sheet of the Company for the year ended 31-12-2000. It is not established whether the affairs of the Company are being conducted in a manner prejudicial to the Company or its shareholders, who are one lakh in number or the public interest. There has been no complaint from either the shareholders or the public. The Central Government has not satisfied the requirements of Section 408 , which shall rarely be invoked. Mere reliance on the auditors' report cannot be adequate and there are no grounds to invoke the provisions of Section 408 . The Central Government neither conducted any investigation of its own nor furnished any material justifying invocation of the power under Section 408 . The Appropriate Authority is at liberty to take any action including penal proceeding for the alleged irregularities pointed out in the auditors' report. The Central Government initiated the present proceedings pursuant to the stock market scam on account of Ketan Parekh group. The various violations have been compounded to avoid litigation(s) and the compounding of offences does not amount to any admission of guilt. Consequently, the Company and its directors stand absolved from the charges and the same cannot be the ground for invoking Section 408 . The Company has been served with a warning letter from the Regional Director. The Company is functioning with 45 employees and its associate company at Bangalore with 400 employees and call centre with more than 1000 people are doing extremely well. The Company is operating prudently and economically utilising the available resources to its maximum benefit. At present, the shares of Rs. 10/- each is priced at Rs. 9.80 per share. In these circumstances, the company petition is liable to be dismissed. 5. After considering the pleadings and elaborate arguments, the issue that arises for my consideration is whether the ingredients of Section 408 are satisfied for authorizing the Central Government to appoint Government directors on the Board of the Company? Section 408(1) dealing with powers of the Central Government to prevent oppression and mismanagement in the affairs of the company reads thus: