- 1. By this appeal, the appellant/accused prays for quashing

 and setting aside the judgment and order of conviction and sentence

 dated 03/03/2007, passed by the learned Special Judge, Jalna, Dist.

 Jalna in Special Case No.10/2004 (PCA), convicting him for the

 offence punishable under Sections 7 and 13(1)(d) read with Section

 13(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 (for short 'the said

 Act'). 91.07apeal (2) 2. The prosecution case in brief is as under :- (b) Since complainant Trimbak was not willing to pay such

amount to accused, he approached the Anti Corruption Bureau office

at Jalna on 05/03/2004 and informed the above incident to P.I.

Dhananjay Yerule, who reduced the complaint of Trimbak at Exh.25

and decided to lay a trap. Hence, he called two panchas, namely,

Pralhad Devgundhe PW-1 and Azizkhan Pathan [not examined], both

serving in the Office of the Superintendent, Agriculture Office at Jalna,

to his office and directed them to come on the next day as panch

witnesses during the trap. Accordingly, both panchas and complainant

Trimbak all again went to the Anti Corruption Bureau at Jalna in the
 91.07apeal (4) morning of 06/03/2004. P.I. Dhananjay Yerule then introduced

complainant and both panchas with each other and told them that

anthracene powder and ultra violate rays would be used during the

trap. He also explained to both panchas and complainant the

properties of anthracene powder and ultra violate rays. Complainant

produced 15 currency notes of Rs.100/- each before P.I. Dhananjay

Yerule PW.4 for being used as a bribe amount during the trap. The

printed numbers of those notes were noted down and anthracene

powder was applied to all of them and those notes were wrapped in a

paper and also handkerchief and put in the left chest pocket of shirt of

complainant with a direction to handover the amount to accused only,

if the accused would demand them as a bribe amount for the above

work. If the accused would accept the above amount as a bribe, the

complainant was directed to pass signal to police. The amount was to

be handed over on demand in presence of panch Pralhad PW.1.

Pralhad PW.1 was also directed to accompany the complainant to the

office of accused and supervise the talks would take place between

them and to reproduce them before the police when asked. Another

panch Azizkhan was also directed to accompany the trapping party and

see what would happen. A detailed pre-trap panchnama was

accordingly held at Exh.19. 91.07apeal (5) (c) In the afternoon, P.I. Dhananjay Yerule PW.4 carried

complainant and both panchas near the office of accused and directed

the complainant and panch Pralhad PW.1 to proceed to the office of

accused. Accordingly, complainant and panch Pralhad went to the

office of accused at about 11.50 noon, whereas another panch and

police party waited near that building. (d) When complainant met accused in that office in presence

of panch Pralhad and asked about his work, the accused asked the

complainant whether the he had brought the amount of Rs.1500/- as

asked by appellant. The complainant then told that he would pay the

amount on receiving his GPF advance amount. Thereafter, the

complainant received the GPF advance amount after a while, which he

put in the backside of his pant pocket. The accused again demanded

the amount of Rs.1500/-for him for the work of complainant. The

complainant took out the above tainted notes from his left chest pocket

of shirt and handed over the notes by taking out them from wrapped

paper and accepted-handkerchief. Accused accepted the said tainted

notes, counted them and took some currency notes from his pocket and

put these tainted notes in his right pant pocket, in presence of panch

Pralhad. The complainant then passed the pre-determined signal
 91.07apeal (6) regarding acceptance of the tainted notes as bribe by accused to

raiding police, which immediately rushed to the spot and caught

accused on the spot. Police introduced themselves with accused and

also introduced both panchas and complainant and directed accused to

disclose his name and address. On the direction of PI Dhananjay

Yerule PW.4. the another panch Azizkhan took out all the articles from

the backside pocket of pant of accused. Then the necessary test for

anthracene powder under the ultra violate lamp was carried out on the

fingers of trapping party, panchas, complainant and accused one after

another and so also on the currency notes found with the possession of

accused and taken out by another panch, and the inner part of the back

pocket of pant of accused. The fingers of both hands of accused as

well as on the right hand of complainant and inner part of back pocket

of pant of accused were found shining of anthracene powder. So also,

printed numbers of the notes taken out from the pocket of pant of

accused tallied with the printed numbers noted down in the pre-trap

panchnama. Those notes also gave shining of anthracene powder under

the flash of ultra violate lamp. Some documents from the possession of

accused were verified and the xerox copies of those documents were

taken by P.I. Dhananjay Yerule. Seizure panchnama of all the articles

and post trap panchnama were held. 91.07apeal (7) (e) Accordingly, P.I. Dhananjay Yerule carried accused and

both panchas and his companions to Sadar Bazaar Police Station at

Jalna, where he lodged complaint at Exh.41 for the above incident

against appellant, which was registered under crime bearing C.R.

No.3055/2004. P.I. Dhananjay Yerule held the investigation of the

crime and then forwarded the papers to his superior i.e. the

Superintendent of Police, Anti Corruption Bureau at Aurangabad for

obtaining necessary sanction for prosecuting the accused. 3. On completion of investigation, P.I. Yerule filed charge-

sheet against appellant/accused in the Court. Thereafter, the charge

came to be framed against appellant/accused at Exhibit 3 for the

offence punishable under sections 7 , 13(1) (d) read with section 13(2) of the said Act. Appellant pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

The defence of the accused is that of total denial to the case of

prosecution. Accordingly, his plea was recorded at Exh.4. The

defence of the accused is that of total denial to the case of prosecution.

The specific defence of the accused from his statement under section

313 of the Code of Criminal Procedure is that complainant had

obtained hand loan from him and when he started demanding the said

amount, the complainant did not like it and falsely involved him in this

crime, and, therefore, he accepted that amount. 91.07apeal (8) 4. In order to bring home guilt against accused, the

prosecution had examined in all four witnesses. Panch witness

No.1/Pralhad Maruti Devgundhe (PW-1) was examined at Exhibit 11;

complainant Trimbak Pandurang Ghode (PW-2) was examined at Exh.

24; Sanctioning Authority/Ravindra Raghunath Kedge (PW-3) was

examined at 27 and Investigating Officer, P.I. Dhananjay Mahadeo

Yerule (PW 4) was examined at 33. Besides this oral evidence, the

prosecution had relied on the documentary evidence viz. Complaint,

spot panchnama, service book of complainant, pre-trap panchnama

(Exh.19), arrest panchnama of the accused (Exh.20), panchnama of

unsealing (Exh.21), sanction order (Exh.28) and complaint of P.I.

Yerule (Exh. 41). 5. After recording the evidence and hearing the Advocates

for the parties at length, learned Special Judge, Jalna vide the

judgment and order dated 03/03/2007 in Special Case No.10/2004

convicted appellant/accused for the offence punishable under Section 7 of the said Act and sentenced to suffer rigorous imprisonment for one

years and to pay fine of Rs.1,000/-, in default to pay fine, to suffer

further rigorous imprisonment for one month. He was further

convicted for the offence punishable under Section 13(1)(d) read with Section 13(1)(2) the said Act and sentenced to suffer rigorous
 91.07apeal (9) imprisonment for one years and to pay fine of Rs.2,000/-, in default to

pay fine, to suffer further rigorous imprisonment for one month. Both

the sentences of imprisonment were directed to be run concurrently.

Being aggrieved by the said impugned judgment and order of

conviction, the appellant has approached this Court in the present

appeal praying for quashing and setting aside the same. 6. Heard learned Advocate Mr Chatterji for appellant and

learned APP Ms Mantri for respondent/State. 7. Mr Chatterji, learned Advocate for the appellant submits

that the learned Sessions Court miserably failed to consider the

evidence brought by the prosecution in proper perspective and

therefore, the conviction of the appellant is illegal and liable to be set

aside. He then submits that the prosecution has failed to prove that the

appellant had taken a bribe and also failed to procure the valid

sanction as contemplated under the Act. In support of these

submissions, Mr. Chatterji relied upon the following judgments :- 91.07apeal (10) ( iii) Kishan Irbhaji Waghmare Vs. State of Maharashtra and another (Criminal Appeal No.322/2007 delivered on 03/03/2022). ( iv) Ramdas Waman Tadge Vs. State of Maharashtra , 2019 ALL MR

(Cri.) 1833. 8. Mr. Chatterji further submits that even otherwise the

prosecution also miserably failed to prove that appellant/accused has

demanded bribe/ illegal gratification to perform the public duty. If the

testimony of PW-2 is perused it reveals that he had approached the

appellant/accused to carry out certain entries in his service book. The

appellant accused was entrusted with the said work of taking entry in

service book in the public Department. The complainant when

approached to him on 04/03/2004, he requested him to carry out the

entries in his service book, however, the appellant asked him to pay

Rs.1500/-. Instead of paying, he directly approached to the Anti

Corruption Bureau, Jalna. PW-4 Dhananjay Yerule, recorded his

complaint as per Exhibit 25 and asked him to come on next date i.e on

06/03/2004. On 06/03/2004, two persons namely, Devgundhe and

Pathan were called and accordingly, after completing the formalities,

they decide to lay trap on the appellant. Accordingly they went to

PWD office, Jalna at about 10:15 to 10:30 a.m. There is serious

omission in the testimony of the prime witness PW-2/complainant. 91.07apeal (11) According to him, when he went to the office and met accused, he

saluted him, but in return the appellant accused asked him whether he

had brought the amount. The said witness PW-2 in his cross

examination has stated that he had told the Police that appellant had

asked him whether he had brought amount when he saluted him, but

the same is not recorded by the police. Thus, the basic contention as

regards demanding the bribe amount is itself not coming in the form of

strong evidence. Moreover, PW-2 states that he had paid amount to

appellant on 06/03/2004 in presence of Munde, however, the said

Munde has not been examined by the prosecution. PW-1 Pralhad

Devgundhe, who is shadow panch had admitted in his evidence that

the accused had given the statement to the police after the trap. The

accused had stated therein that complainant had obtained hand loan of

Rs.1500/- from him and the said amount had been returned to him. 9. Learned Advocate for the appellant also invited attention

of this Court to the question No.52 recorded under the provisions of Section 313 of the Code of Criminal Procedure in which, the present

appellant answered that the complainant had obtained hand loan from

him and many others, and when he started demanding back the said

amount, the complainant did not like it and falsely involved him in this

crime. Thus, the defence tried to claim that the amount of bribe was
 91.07apeal (12) not illegal gratification, on the contrary, it was repayment of hand loan.

The evidence of panch witness Devgundhe PW-1 is also challenged on

the ground that, on various aspects he has failed to corroborate with

the other witness. The learned advocate for the appellant, therefore,

prays for allowing the appeal and setting aside the impugned

conviction. 10. On the other hand, the learned APP has strenuously

supported the impugned judgment and submitted that the learned

Special Judge has rightly convicted the appellant. In view of strong

evidence on record, no interference is called for in the impugned

judgment. The appeal is liable to be dismissed. 11. After hearing the learned advocates for the respective

sides at length, I have perused the record minutely. As far as sanction

accorded in this case is concerned, Mr Chatterji has rightly pointed out

that PW-3 /Ravindra Kedge, who is the sanctioning authority, had

admitted in cross examination that the sanction order is prepared as per

the draft of sanction order forwarded to him by the Police. This clear

admission itself is sufficient to hold that the sanction order is illegal

and therefore, on account of not procuring valid sanction, the

conviction of the appellant is required to be set aside. PW-3 while
 91.07apeal (13) issuing the sanction order has not applied his mind. The said PW-3

again admitted that he could not say whether the copies of original

service book were included in police investigation papers or not? If

the testimony of PW-3 Ravindra is minutely scrutinized, in the year

2004 he was serving as Superintending Engineer in the Public Works

Department. He had received all the investigation papers of the crime

registered against the appellant from the office of Anti Corruption

Bureau, Jalna. In one line, he had stated that he studied all those

documents and came to the conclusion that it was necessary to accord

sanction for prosecution of the accused. What is material to state here

is that in his cross examination, he had admitted that he cannot say

even after seeing the papers before the Trial Court as to whether or not

the copies of the original service book and its copies were included in

the police investigation papers for his perusal. He also admitted that

whether or not entry in service book and its copies pertaining to

complainant were updated till date of trap. Before the Trial Court,

after verifying the record, PW-3 stated that entries pertaining to the

increment in pay dated 01/03/2002 were taken in the service book

prior to the trap. He further stated that the police had sent him a draft

of the sanction order and he candidly admitted that he prepared the

said sanction order as per that draft. What is missing in the said
 91.07apeal (14) sanction order is an application of mind by this very witness P.W.-3

which is the sanctioning authority. Mr Chatterji has rightly relied upon

the pronouncements wherein it has been observed that according the

sanction to prosecute a particular public service is not an empty

formality and it should be passed after perusing the complete record

and after having been satisfied that the concerned employee has

committed offence under Section 7 or 13(i)(d) of the said Act, the said

authorities are required to pass the sanction order. Therefore, in the

instant case, since there is no proper sanction order by the sanctioning

authority, hence the prosecution has virtually failed to obtain the valid

sanction order against the appellant. 12. As far as the demand and acceptance of bribe is

concerned, the omissions in the evidence of PW-1 Devgundhe have

been duly proved by the defence in view of the evidence of PW-4, who

stated that panch Devgundhe had not stated during the panchnama of

scene of offence that the accused went to the Cashier twice or thrice

while that panchnama was being recorded. So also, the panch

Devgundhe had also not stated before PW-4 that he was near when the

accused called the complainant and the accused asked the complainant

to pay the amount as told by him and get the service book. Panch

Devgundhe had also not stated before PW-4 that the accused put the
 91.07apeal (15) accepted notes mixed with the notes with him. Thus, the testimony of

PW-1 panch witness not found to be trustworthy and on account of

demand, he is not supporting the prosecution case. 13. PW-4 Dhananjay Yerule, Investigating Officer had

admitted in his cross examination that the complainant had not told

him in his complaint that accused had called him on 05/03/2004. He

had also not stated that during the spot panchnama that he saluted the

accused and accused asked him as to whether he had brought the

amount. Thus, there being no appropriate corroboration from the

witnesses as regards his demand is concerned and therefore, the

conviction of the present appellant cannot be sustained. 14. The basic requirement of demand is required to be proved

beyond all reasonable doubt. In order to prove the charges for the

offence punishable under Section 13(1)(d) r/w Section 13(2) of the PC

Act, the proof of demand of illegal gratification is absolutely necessary

as it is sine qua non of the offence. If the prosecution fails to prove

this demand of illegal gratification, the charge against the appellant

therefore, for the aforesaid offences would fail. It is clearly

established in several judgments delivered by the Hon'ble Supreme

Court including the judgment in Neeraj Dutta vs. State (Govt. of NCT 91.07apeal (16) of Delhi) reported in (2023) 18 SCC 251, that mere possession and

recovery of currency notes from the possession of the accused without

proof of demand would not establish the offence under under Section

13(1)(d) r/w Section 13(2) of the P.C. Act. In absence of proof of

demand and illegal gratification and use of corrupt or illegal means to

obtain any valuable or pecuniary advantage, it cannot be said that the

offence of taking bribe is proved. Thus, the proof of demand has been

held to be indispensable ingredient. Therefore, failure on the part of

prosecution to prove demand and illegal gratification, would be fatal

and mere recovery of the amount from the appellant/accused would

not entail his conviction for the said offences. 15. It is settled law that the statutory presumption under Section 20 of the said Act can arise only after the prosecution proves

the foundational fact of 'demand'. In the present case, as the

testimonies of prosecution witnesses do not establish any demand of

illegal gratification by the accused, the presumption under Section 20 cannot be invoked. This legal position is laid down in B. Jayaraj v.

State of A.P. (2014) 13 SCC 55, P. Satyanarayana Murthy v. D.I.G.

of Police (2015) 10 SCC 152, N. Vijayakumar v. State of T.N. (2021)

3 SCC 687 and recently in Neeraj Dutta v. State (2023) 18 SCC 251. 91.07apeal (17) Therefore, mere recovery of tainted currency notes is insufficient to

sustain conviction. 16. In view of the foregoing discussion, I am of the view that

the prosecution has failed to establish the ingredients of offences

charged against appellant beyond reasonable doubt. Consequently,

this Criminal Appeal is allowed and the judgment and order of

conviction and sentence dated 03/03/2007, passed by the learned

Special Judge, Jalna, Dist. Jalna in Special Case No.10/2004 (PCA), is

quashed and set aside. The appellant/accused is acquitted of the said

offence. The bail bond stands cancelled. Surety, if any, stands

discharged. Fine amount, if deposited, be refunded to appellant. The

record and proceedings be sent back to the concerned Court. [SUSHIL M. GHODESWAR, J.]

sjk