Per S.V.Mehrotra(AM)

 The present Special Bench has been constituted u/s.255 (3) of the Income tax Act,
1961. 2. The Special Bench was constituted under the following circumstances: After considering the detailed reference u/s.255(3) made by the Tribunal vide order dated

20.8.2009, the Hon'ble President vide his order dated 14.10.2009 constituted a Special

Bench for disposal of entire appeal. We, accordingly, proceed to decide the appeal. 3. Brief facts of the case are that during the course of search, 12 CD Roms from the

computers and servers were found on the premises which contained accounting and

trading data of Triumph Securities. On the basis of the data and on the basis of further

evidence gathered by the AO, the AO noted that in some of the transactions, the client

code as shown in the Stock Exchange record at the time of striking the trade was different

from the client code shown in the books of account of the assessee. Thus, the identity of

client, who allegedly had undertaken the transaction, became subject matter of further

investigation and, therefore, the matter was also referred for audit u/s.142(2A) of the

I.T.Act, 1961. AO noted the following observations of the auditors as reproduced in para

12.3 of his order : The AO required the assessee to furnish the following information for financial years

1998-99(AY 1999-2000), F.Y. 1999-2000 (AY 2000-2001) and for the period 1.4.2000 to

23.3.2001: The assessee filed confirmations of certain clients but did not furnish any other details.

The AO, therefore, gave a show cause notice to the assessee requiring him to explain as

to why the undisclosed income should not be computed on the basis of details available 5 ITA No.444/Mum/2004 M/s. Triumph Securities Ltd
on record regarding mis-match of clients ID codes. The assessee filed its reply dated

22.9.2003, 23.9.2003, 24.9.2003 & 25.9.2003, in which, primarily the assessee explained

the modus operandi of executing trades on The Stock Exchange, Mumbai and the reasons

for mismatch of client ID. It was, inter-alia, pointed out that at that relevant time, it was

not obligatory to punch client ID for executing trades. Further, it was pointed out that

the punching of client ID pre -August, 2001was not mandatory and, therefore, in Post-

August, 2001 when it became mandatory, the Stock Exchange had started, after trade

hours, a 15 minutes session called Post-closing session in which the brokers were allowed

to alter the client ID. 3.1 The AO elaborately considered the provisions of Section 158BB , which defines

undisclosed income and observed that same includes any income based on any entry in

the books of account or other documents or transactions where such entry in the books of

account or other documents or transactions represented wholly or partly income or

property, which has not been or would not have been disclosed for the purposes of this

Act. He pointed out that the statements recorded in the books of account, in the form of

transaction, do not alone constitute sufficient evidence to prove that the transactions are

disclosed unless the income embedded in the said transaction is also disclosed.

3.2 The AO further observed that the word "evidence" is derived from latin word

evidens or evidere, which means to show clearly, to make clear to the side, to discover

clearly, to make plainly certain, to ascertain, to prove. M/s. Triumph Securities Ltd
3.3 After considering the meaning of term 'disclosed' and 'evidence' in the context of section 158BB , he pointed out that mere entry in the books of account is not sufficient

and if in course of search, evidence is found, which, on the basis of enquiries, establishes

the omission or failure on the part of the assessee to make full and true disclosure of

income in such entries, then it will tantamount to lack of disclosure.

3.4 The AO pointed out that the question of benami transaction, the nature of trading

and like matters may not appear even from the evidences found at the time of the search

but it is a question of interpretation of the evidences and if the AO is able to find out what

is embedded in that evidence, which assessee should have uncovered but does not, will,

also tantamount to un-disclosure. Thus, in sum and substance, the AO observed that in

the course of assessment proceedings when the AO, on the basis of evidence found and

enquiries made, finds out the real nature of transaction and finds that the same had not

been recorded in books, then it falls within the definition of undisclosed income.

3.5 After elaborately considering the various provisions of the Act, as noted above,

the AO proceeded to examine the factual aspect of the matter in order to quantify the

undisclosed income. A notice dated 24.7.2003 for this purpose was issued to the

assessee to furnish the followings for F.Ys. 1998-99, 1999-2000 and 1.4.2000 to

23.3.2001: M/s. Triumph Securities Ltd iii) Identification of transaction where there is client ID mis-match but
 confirmations from the clients as appearing in your books are available for
 the said transactions. iv) Identification of transaction where there is a client ID mis-match and
 confirmations are not available but delivery of shares to the client or from
 the client and payment of money received from client or made to the client
 can be proven

3.6 AO observed that no details were furnished as per the details required in the

aforesaid notice. Therefore, again notice was issued on 12.9.2003 and the assessee was

required to explain as to why their undisclosed income should not be computed on the

basis of details available on record regarding mismatch of client ID code. The assessee

in its reply, inter-alia, accepted in principle that there was client ID mismatch and,

therefore, furnished the necessary confirmations. It was pointed out that wherever

confirmations were not available, circumstantial evidences in the form of agreement with

clients, acknowledgement of contracts, receipt/giving of delivery of shares and

receipt/payment of money were furnished to establish that clients were existing and the

trades belong to them. The assessee had also furnished a list of clients in respect of

whom confirmations could not be furnished but ledger accounts and other circumstantial

evidences were furnished. 3.7 The AO examined the modus operandi with reference to various circulars issued

by SEBI and after considering the detailed guidelines concluded that the assessee's

explanation that punching of name was not mandatory in the given period, was not

correct because it was necessary to have the same name and client ID entered in his sauda 8 ITA No.444/Mum/2004 M/s. Triumph Securities Ltd
book and other primary documents alongwith contract notes, written consent of clients in

respect of contracts entered as principal etc.

3.8 The AO also considered the Joint Parliamentary Committee's Report, which

investigated the stock market scam and matter relating thereto, which was published on

December 12, 2002 i.e. prior to the date of search. He pointed out that it is a public

record and the JPC had, inter alia, concluded that there were large scale manipulations

like the diversions of the funds, fraudulent use of bank funds, use of public funds,

violation of rules formed on the stock exchanges and banks and use of funds coming

through overseas corporate bodies to transfer stock holdings and stock market profits out

of the country. The AO has elaborately considered the JPC report from which, following

points emerge:- 3.9 The AO observed that in the course of assessment, it was noticed that

assessee's transactions recorded in books were mainly in those scrips, wherein, client ID

mismatch was noticed. M/s. Triumph Securities Ltd

3.10 The AO further pointed out that the assessee had not filed confirmations of parties

in respect of clients where client ID mismatch was noticed. He further pointed out that

similar discrepancy was noticed in the case of M/s. N.H. Securities ltd., and M/s. Classic

Share and Stock Broking Services Ltd., where a request was made to issue summons

u/s.131 to parties, who were not providing confirmations but no such request was made in

the case of the assessee. He further noted that the assessee was also engaged in the

proprietory trade in addition to the share broking activities. The AO did not accept the

assessee's contention that the circumstantial evidence is to be accepted. He pointed out

that the burden to prove is on the assessee which he failed to discharge.

3.11 On the basis aforementioned discussion, the AO computed the undisclosed

income of the assessee in para 13 of his order as under: M/s. Triumph Securities Ltd 5. Ld CIT (A) concurred with the findings of the AO that it is not enough that

entries in the books or the expenses as per the books are disclosed but what is material is

that the true import of such entries or such expenses having bearing on the income should

have been disclosed for the purposes of the Act and if it is not so then the same would be

undisclosed for the purpose of Chapter XIV-B provided of course that such occurrence

was as a result of search. He also concurred with the findings of the AO that in case of

transactions like benami transactions, the evidence and material found during the search

may not apparently indicate anything irregular but interpreting such material and

evidences in harmonious fashion in conjunction with the totality of material found may

show its true import that income relating to the same was not disclosed and that would be

covered within the ambit of Chapter XIV-B. Thus, he held that on the basis of evidence

and material found during the course of search or the follow up enquiries, if it is found

that real nature of transaction was not disclosed, even though entry per se had been

disclosed, the income implication relating to the same would be part of undisclosed

income under Chapter XIV-B. 6. Ld CIT (A) referred to CBDT Circular No.2002 dated 27.8.2002, wherein, it is

clarified as under:- 7. Ld CIT (A) considered the definition of income u/s.2 (24) with reference to

various case laws and observed that it has been held that the definition is inclusive

definition so that the meaning is not limited but widens its net. The word "income" is of

widest amplitude and it must be given its natural and grammatical meaning. Drawing

parity with the definition of 'income', ld CIT (A) observed that since the definition of

undisclosed income is also inclusive, the concept laid down in various case laws will

apply mutatis-mutandis. Therefore, the income, which would not have come to the notice

of the department but for the search, should be included as undisclosed income of the

block period. Ld CIT (A) examined the ingredients of undisclosed income and observed

that in the first category, reference to disclosure is not to the entire transaction/entry but

to the income or property which had been embedded therein. He pointed out that

legislature has not restricted the determination of undisclosed income to the entries but

has included the transaction also. Even if any entry is not indicative of undisclosed 12 ITA No.444/Mum/2004 M/s. Triumph Securities Ltd
income, the entire transaction which would complete those entries in a logical manner has

to be considered so as to determine the undisclosed income. He pointed out that the

undisclosed income is not limited to positive evidence gathered during search but shall

include the issues emanating therefrom. He observed that once it was established that the

relevant information was emanating as a result of search, whether it is recorded in the

regular books of account or otherwise, leading to detection of income, it becomes part

and parcel of the 'undisclosed income'. Keeping in view the above interpretation, he

observed that the AO found during the course of search lot of cases where the client ID

shown by the assessee in its own record was at variance with those shown in the stock

exchange record. He further pointed out that the assessee group and certain other entities

were jointly investigated/raided by the Income tax Department and many other

investigating agencies like SEBI, CBI, etc. In this related search action, it was, inter alia,

found that the assessee in collaboration and connivance with certain bankers, financial

institutions and other fellow brokers was manipulating share markets, particularly the

share prices of selected group. He also referred to JPC report in this regard. Ld CIT (A),

inter alia, finally concluded as under: Coming to the quantum aspect of the additions, relating to unexplained purchases
 and profit on both delivery based and speculative transactions, during the course
 of appellate proceedings the appellant was asked in specific to furnish the details
 of turnover (both delivery based and speculative) as also the profit arising out of
 delivery based as well as speculative transactions. Apart from the same, the
 appellant was asked to provide client wise confirmation in respect of delivery
 based transactions and in case of profit in delivery based/speculative transactions
 and was also asked to produce the confirmations from the respective clients.
 Excepting for producing some sketchy details on the turnover which it had
 procured from the stock exchange no further detail or confirmations as asked for
 could be produced. In fact the turnover could not be reconciled with the book
 figure. Consequently there is no other option but to sustain the order of the AO
 on the issue. The appellant's plea as per grounds of appeal No.2 & 3 are
 rejected." Aggrieved, the assessee has taken the following grounds of appeal:- 8. Shri A.V.Sonde, ld Counsel for the assessee, at the outset, did not press Ground

Nos.1 & 2, therefore, the same are dismissed as not pressed. 9. With regard to Ground No.3, Ld Counsel for the assessee narrated the facts of the

case and pointed out that the search in the case of the assessee was carried out on

23.3.2001. He submitted that the additions made in the block assessment for A.Y. 2000-

2001 and previous year from 1.4.2001 to 23.3.2001 were made in the block assessment

and similar additions were made for A.Y. 1999-2000 in the regular assessment. He

pointed out that the AO has made three types of additions. Firstly, u/s.69 as unexplained

investment, secondly, profit on speculation and thirdly, profit on delivery based

transaction. He pointed out that in the course of search only 12 CD Roms were seized

which are mentioned in the regular books of account and details of transaction recorded

in the regular course of business. He pointed out that the assessee is a stock broker only.

Ld Counsel pointed out that no transactions were undertaken at National Stock Exchange

since the assessee was only the broker of Bombay Stock Exchange. Ld counsel submitted

that AO in para 12.2 has observed "on the basis of the data and on the basis of further

evidence gathered". He submitted that it is not correct because apart from 12 CDs, no

further evidence was found at the time of search. He further submitted that there is no

dispute regarding mismatch between the client ID as per assessee's book vis-à-vis stock

exchange. He submitted that the main issue to be decided in the present appeal is what is 15 ITA No.444/Mum/2004 M/s. Triumph Securities Ltd
the actual consequence of this mismatch. He pointed out that the client code mismatch

had actually prompted the enquiry. Ld Counsel for the assessee further submitted that

confirmations were required by Special Auditors u/s.142(2A) and the assessee produced

the confirmations in about 98% of the case. Ld Counsel submitted that in 12 CDs

trading data for F.Y. 1999-2000 and 2000-2001 and further for F.Y. 1.3.2001 to

23.3.2001 was found The AO has made regular assessment for A.Y. 2000-20001 but

resorted to the block assessment for A.Y. 2001-02 and A.Y. 2002-03 (part). Ld Counsel

further pointed out that wherever confirmations were produced, no additions were made.

Thus, in case, there was client mismatch + lack of confirmation then only additions were

made. He submitted that in those cases where confirmations could not be obtained, the

assessee produced circumstantial evidence in the form of agreement, receipt/giving of

delivery of shares and receipt/payment of money, bank statement showing client name,

which were not accepted by the AO. 10. Ld counsel for the assessee pointed out that the AO has proceeded on

presumption that punching of client ID was obligatory in the relevant financial year.

However, punching of client code as per SEBI had become obligatory only from August

2001 onwards. In this regard, he referred to page 63 of PB, wherein, the modus operandi

of screen based trade system of BSE and Explanation for the so called mismatch of the

client codes as per the assessee's books and those as per the BSE's record is contained.

Ld Counsel referred to page 66 of PB to point out that it was only w.e.f. 1.8.2001, the use

of unique client code was made mandatory by the SEBI. In this regard, ld Counsel

referred to SEBI Circular No. SMDRP/Policy/Cir.39/2001 dated 18th July, 2001 and NSE 16 ITA No.444/Mum/2004 M/s. Triumph Securities Ltd
Circular No.NSE/CMO/0022/2001 dated 24th July, 2001, wherein, it was, inter alia, noted

that "the above requirement shall be applicable for clients having order value of Rs.1

lakh or more and shall be enforced w.e.f. August -1, 2001. He pointed out that at the

relevant time, the assessee assigned particular client ID and reported to BSE but

mentioning of the client ID was not compulsory during the relevant assessment year,

therefore, it could not be the basis of addition. In this regard, ld Counsel for the assessee

referred to para 12.14 of the assessment order and pointed out that the AO has observed

that the auditors pointed out the mismatches pertaining to name of the client, quantity of

shares and rate of shares whereas the mismatch was only with regard to identification of

the parties. He referred to page 3 of the assessment order and pointed out that the AO has

observed that the reconciliation of client ID code could not be made. He further referred

to page 21 of the assessment order to point out that it was at the instance of auditors that

the confirmations were filed but the AO says that the assessee undertook the exercise of

filing the confirmation letters based on ledger account of the assessee. He referred to

para 12.17 of the assessment order and pointed out that in the stock exchange records,

nothing was beyond the books. Ld counsel submitted that for finding out the real

transaction, circumstantial evidence should also have been considered. 11. As regards the quantification of profit, Ld. Counsel submitted that the AO

ignored the speculation loss but took into consideration the speculation profit for which,

there is no basis. Ld Counsel submitted that the basis of addition is contained from pages

76 to 91 of PB, which primarily contain the following lists: Ld Counsel pointed out that it is an undisputed fact that all the transactions have been

executed on BSE and thus, the amount had been paid/received from BSE and, therefore,

there can not be any question regarding identity of the party from whom the amounts

have been received. 12. With reference to above factual position, ld Counsel for the assessee advanced his

legal proposition which are as under:- In order to buttrace his arguments, ld Counsel referred to AO's order para 12.01, 12.02,

12.16, 12.17 and 12.19. M/s. Triumph Securities Ltd 13. Ld counsel pointed out that the basis of addition is books of account only on the

ground of mismatch of client code. Ld Counsel submitted that under these

circumstances, resort to section 158BC is not justified because of the following reasons:- 14. In this regard, ld Counsel referred to assessment order u/s.143 (3) dated

31.10.2002 (i.e. after the date of search) for A.Y. 1999-2000 contained at page 295 of PB.

He, therefore, submitted that the addition should have been made in regular assessment

and not in block assessment. In support of his contention, ld Counsel relied on the

following decisions: 15. Ld. Counsel for the assessee submitted that the AO has not rejected the books of

account and the special auditors also say that the accounts reflect the true and fair view. 19 ITA No.444/Mum/2004 M/s. Triumph Securities Ltd 16. Ld. Counsel pointed out that discrepancy may be there but what is the

consequence of the same is to be examined. In this regard, he relied on the decision of

ITAT Delhi Bench in the case of Dang & Co. (P) Ltd v. DCIT , 94 ITD 29 (Third

Member) and reported in 94 ITD 1. 17. Ld. Counsel submitted that the AO himself says that the addition had been made

on the basis of regular books of account. 18. The second proposition advanced by ld Counsel for the assessee was with

reference to scope of sections 68 to 69C . He submitted that none of the sections apply in

the present case for the reason that section 69 cannot be invoked in such circumstances

where investments are recorded in the books of account. He pointed out that all are de-

mat accounts and, therefore, there is no question of non-recording of these investments in

the books of account. In this regard, ld Counsel referred to para 12 of the decision dated

20.6.2007 of the Mumbai Tribunal in the case of ACIT v. Nabheram Harakchand (ITA

No.4286/M/2004) contained at pages 121 to 130 of PB, wherein, against the appeal filed

by the revenue, the Tribunal upheld the decision of ld CIT (A) in deleting the addition

made u/s.69 on the ground that transactions were reflected in the accounts and the

payments were made from the cash available in the accounts itself. He also referred to

para 23 of the said order, wherein, the Tribunal reversed the findings of ld CIT (A)

confirming the addition as unexplained investments of loan accounts as the loans were

recorded in the books of account. Ld Counsel for the assessee thereafter referred to the

decision dated 18.10.2007 of the Tribunal in ACIT v. M/s. N.H. Securities Ltd in IT(SS) 20 ITA No.444/Mum/2004 M/s. Triumph Securities Ltd
a No.372/Mum/2004 for the block period ended 23.3.2001 contained at pages 131 to 135

of PB, wherein, the Tribunal in para 6 held that once the transaction was recorded in the

books of account, section 69 could not be invoked. He further referred to the decision

dated 3.10.2007 of the Mumbai Tribunal in the case of N.H. Securities Ltd v. DCIT in ITA No.3717/Mum/2004 for the assessment year 1999-2000 contained at pages 147 to 167 of PB, wherein, in para 31, the Tribunal, inter alia, observed as under:- 19. In the final leg of his arguments, ld Counsel submitted that if at all the addition is

to be made then the issue would be as to what amount should be added. In this regard, he

referred to pages 92 to 98 of PB, wherein, the list of clients whose confirmations have

been obtained subsequent to addition made by the AO, is contained. He pointed out that

these confirmations were filed before the ld CIT(A) but he has not at all referred to these

confirmations. Ld Counsel for the assessee further submitted that collateral evidences

were filed before the AO. In this regard, he referred to certain examples to demonstrate

that names were appearing in the bank statement as that in the books of account. He

referred to page 76 of PB, wherein, the list of clients whose confirmations were not

available till the assessment and for which addition of Rs.162.95 crores has been made in

the order. He referred to Sl No.78 at page No.78 of PB, wherein, the name of client is

DAKSHA P. MODI . He pointed out that in the bank statement of Global Trust Bank on 21 ITA No.444/Mum/2004 M/s. Triumph Securities Ltd
9.9.1999, the name of DAKSHA P MODI showing a debit of Rs.2,008.38 is appearing.

Thereafter, ld Counsel for the assessee referred to Sl No.15 of page 76 of PB, wherein,

the name of client is SUSHMA KAPUR and pointed out that the agreement with the

party alongwith photograph, PAN and declaration was filed before the AO. Ld Counsel

in order to demonstrate the fallacies in the additions made referred to few instances of

additions made by the AO as under:- (2) The assessee has received the amount from client and has made the payment to BSE

(3) The AO has made the following addition

 Unexplained investment 13977

 Delivery profit - 13977
 Total: 0
(4) So there is no addition made in such cases. Case II: Only sales made by client
Sr.No. Name of client Bought Sold speculation Total Delivery No. Brokerage
 Speculation Delivery Total Specu. Del. Total Profit turnover profit % 15. Sushma Kapur 58303513 58303513 0 58303513 58303513 0.06 87553

(1) In the above the client has only made sale transation

(2) The assessee has received the amount from BSE and has made the payment to client

(3) The AO has made the following addition Unexplained investment 0 Delivery profit - 58303513
 Total: 58303513

(4) So what AO has added is entire sale consideration 22 ITA No.444/Mum/2004 M/s. Triumph Securities Ltd Case III Only sales made by client
Sr.No. Name of client Bought Sold speculation Total Delivery No. Brokerage
 Speculation Delivery Total Specu. Del. Total Profit turnover profit %

16 Anil Dharker 446359 446359 275044 275044 0 721403 -171315 0.00 5016

 446359 446359 275044 275044 0 721403 -171315 0.00 5016

(1) In the above case the client has made purchase as well as sale transaction

(2) The assessee has received the amount from the client to purchase and has made the payment to client against his sale. (4) So what AO has made both purchases and sales w2here sale is more than purchases

Case IV: Client has made both purchases and sales where sale is more than
purchase
Sr.No. Name of client Bought Sold speculation Total Delivery No. Brokerage
 Speculation Delivery Total Specu. Del. Total Profit turnover profit % 4. Inves.Trust of India 145900 145900 29128458 29128458 0 29274358 28982558 0.03 151259

(1) In the above case the client has made purchase as well as sale transaction

(2) The assessee has received the amount from the client to purchase and has made the payment to client against his sale. (4) So what AO has actually added is entire sale consideration.

 Ld counsel submitted that if all these aspects are considered, then the position of addition

would be as under: 24. Ld Counsel for the assessee referred to pages 20 to 31 of PB, wherein, order of

approval under section 142(2A) dated 23.3.2001 is contained and pointed out that on the

basis of report of Deputy Commissioner of Income tax, Circle 5(2), Mumbai (AO) dated

7.3.2001, mismatches in regard to client ID was noticed as is evident from the following:- He submitted that the date of search is 23.3.2001 and thus, the AO knew about this

mismatch. Ld Counsel summing up his arguments submitted that implication and

inference can never be a basis of addition in the block assessment. This can be resorted

to only if it is coupled with some material. He pointed out that it is a fact that no material

has been found but as per the AO, it is the implication of the entry which is material in

this case. He submitted that inference can be drawn on the basis of some other material

found. Ld Counsel in this regard referred to the decision of the Hon'ble Delhi High court

in the case of CIT v. Bansal High Carbons (P)Ltd. , (2009) 223 CTR (Del) 179, wherein,

it was held that statement recorded subsequent to the search and also retracted

subsequently from earlier statement of VP with a view to correctness of the books

without there being any incrementing material could not be used in the proceedings under

Chapter XIV-B. ld Counsel submitted that the knowledge of the transaction is one thing

and implication is other thing. He pointed out that though detailed submissions were

made explaining client ID mismatch, the same have not at all been referred. 25. Ld Counsel for the assessee lastly relied on the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme

Court in the case of Anis Ahmad and Sons v. CIT ,(2008) 297 ITR 441 (SC), wherein, it

has been held that merely because five traders appeared in pursuance to the summons

given could not lead to any adverse inference against the assessee. Relying on this

decision, ld Counsel submitted that substantial compliance has been made by filing

confirmations in most of the cases. M/s. Triumph Securities Ltd 26. As regards Ground Nos. 3 to 4, ld counsel submitted that arguments have already

been made for these grounds. As regards Ground No.5, ld Counsel fairly conceded that

this issue is to be decided against the assessee. As regards Ground No.6, ld Counsel

submitted that the return was filed on 17.8.2001 and hence, there was no delay.

Accordingly, no interest under section 158BFA could be charged. We find that notice

u/s.158BC was issued on 6.7.2001 and the assessee had filed return on 17.8.2001 i.e.

within 45 days of the issue of notice and, therefore, no interest is chargeable u/s.158BFA .

Accordingly, Ground No.5 is rejected and Ground No.6 is allowed. 27. Per contra, Dr. P. Daniel, Ld. Special Counsel appearing for the revenue

submitted that there was security scam in 2001 and consequently, assessee's business was

searched on 23.3.2001. He pointed out that in the security scam, it had been detected that

only one person, Shri Ketan Parekh, was indulging in large scale manipulation of stock

exchange by utilizing financial institutions and bank, etc. Therefore, Joint Parliamentary

Committee was appointed and the statement of Shri Ketan Parekh was recorded by the

JPC. The assessee was carrying on the proprietory business alongwith share broking. He

acted more as an operator than broker. The assessee utilized the settlement period of two

weeks in order to manipulate the transactions. Dr. Daniel pointed out that client code

mismatch was found particularly in those shares in which stock exchange scam took

place. He pointed out that earlier a scam popularly known as 'Harshad Mehta Scam'

was there in 1992 and, consequently, SEBI had issued Circular in 1993. He referred to

pages 9 to 13 of the assessment order, wherein, the code of conduct of Stock broker has

been given. He pointed out that this circular is dated 18.11.1993. Dr. Daniel pointed out 28 ITA No.444/Mum/2004 M/s. Triumph Securities Ltd
that it was in consultation with the assessee that the AO agreed that wherever

confirmations were available, no addition was called for. Otherwise, he treated the

transactions as assessee's own transaction. 28. In reply to assessee's submission regarding filing of the confirmations before ld

CIT (A), Dr. Daniel submitted that there is no such mention in the Ld. CIT (A)'s order.

However, since the assessee filed affidavit to this effect, he did not dispute the same. In

regard to circumstantial evidence relied upon by the assessee, Dr. Daniel pointed out that

merely filing an account opening form does not mean that SUSHMA KAPUR actually

dealt in the share transaction. In regard to SUNIL TANEJA, in whose case, copy of

arbitration award has been filed, Dr. Daniel submitted that it does not amount to

confirmation of particular transaction. The memorandum of understanding filed in the

case of Ashok Mittal and Co. was not produced before the AO and ld CIT(A). However,

in any case, it does not refer to any special dealings. Dr. Daniel further pointed out that

reference to case of DAKSHA P. MODI does not prove that it is the same transaction

which was doubted by AO. 29. We have considered the detailed submissions advanced by both the sides and have

given our careful thought to the same. The main issues to be decided in the present appeal

are as under:- 30. In order to decide these issues, it is necessary to first refer to the scheme of Act
regarding block assessment. Chapter XIV-B lays down special procedure for assessment
of search cases. Section 158B(b) deals with definition of undisclosed income which
reads as under:- 31. Section 158BA deals with the assessment of undisclosed income as a result of
search and sub-sections (2) & (3) of the said section reads as under: 32. Section 158 BB deals with the computation of undisclosed income of the block
period and reads as under: section (1) of section 139 has not expired, on the basis of entries relating to such income or
 transactions as recorded in the books of account and other documents maintained in the normal
 course on or before the date of the search or requisition relating to such previous years; (e) Where any order of settlement has been made under sub-section (4) of section 245D , on the
 basis of such order; M/s. Triumph Securities Ltd (f) Where an assessment of undisclosed income had been made earlier under clause (c) of section
 158BC , on the basis of such assessment. Explanation : For the purposes of determination of undisclosed income, - (a) the total income or
 loss of each previous year shall, for the purpose of aggregation, be taken as the total income or
 loss computed in accordance with the provisions of Chapter IV without giving effect to set off of
 brought forward losses under Chapter VI or unabsorbed depreciation under sub-section (2) of section 32 ; (b) Of a firm, returned income and total income assessed for each of the previous years falling
 within the block period shall be the income determined before allowing deduction of salary,
 interest, commission, bonus or remuneration by whatever name called to any partner not being a
 working partner: section (1B) of section143 . (2) In computing the undisclosed income of the block period, the provisions of sections 68 , 69 , 69A , 69B and 69C shall, so far as may be, apply and references to "financial year" in those
 sections shall be construed as references to the relevant previous year falling in the block period
 including the previous year ending with the date of search or of the requisition.

 (3) The burden of proving to the satisfaction of the Assessing Officer that any undisclosed income
 had already been disclosed in any return of income filed by the assessee before the
 commencement of search or of the requisition, as the case may be, shall be on the assessee.

 (4) For the purpose of assessment under this Chapter, losses brought forward from the previous
 year under Chapter VI or unabsorbed depreciation under sub-section (2) of section 32 shall not be
 set off against the undisclosed income determined in the block assessment under this Chapter, but
 may be carried forward for being set off in the regular assessments 33. From the bare reading of Section 158B(b) it is evident that the undisclosed

income is to be worked out on the basis of (a) Discovery of assets; (b) Discovery of

transactions; (c) Discovery of entries in the books of account or outside the books; or (d)

Discovery of any other material to show that the income was not disclosed. As per the

requirements of this section, it is not sufficient that the assessee has disclosed the asset,

transaction or entry but it is essential that income attributable to the transaction has also

disclosed. If the assessee has not disclosed any income then he will not get any

deduction under the provisions of Section 158BB(1) in the computation of undisclosed

income. It is evident that the definition of undisclosed income is inclusive definition and 32 ITA No.444/Mum/2004 M/s. Triumph Securities Ltd
not exhaustive definition, which includes entry in the books of account or other

documents which actually represented the assessee's income but has not been disclosed

for the purposes of the Act. Any income based on any entry in the books of account or

other documents, which represent wholly or partly concealed income or property, would

also be included in undisclosed income. If a transaction is already in the books of

account but the true nature of entry is detected on the basis of material found during the

course of search, then it will come within the purview of undisclosed income. If the fact

of ownership of the transaction has come to the notice of the department for the first time

as a result of search and seizure operation then it will come within the ambit of

undisclosed income. In the case of benami transactions, the ownership of the transaction

is always represented in the name of other person and not in the name of the person to

whom, the transaction actually belongs. If some material is found during the course of

search from which, it can be inferred that the recording of transaction has been done in

the name of other person then, it will come within the purview of undisclosed income.

The term 'undisclosed income' has primarily been used in section 132(1)(c) . It is

pertinent to note at this juncture that section 132(1) (c) does not refer to a transaction in

the books of account and, therefore, to cover the income which is embedded in the

transaction, the definition of undisclosed income includes the transaction recorded in the

books of account also. The extent of income embedded in the transaction has to be

determined on basis of material found during the course of search depending upon the

facts and circumstances of each case. The expression used in section 158B(b) is 'has not

been or would not have been disclosed'. It implies that as far as the income which has not

been disclosed by the assessee, there would be no difficulty in finding out the same. 33 ITA No.444/Mum/2004 M/s. Triumph Securities Ltd
However, where the issue comes regarding 'would not have been disclosed', the

subjective satisfaction of the AO creeps in. In order to obviate the subjective conclusion

being creeping into the assessment of income under block assessment, it becomes

essential that the material has been found during the course of search relatable to

evidence on the basis of which, the AO reaches the conclusion that income would not

have been disclosed. The material found during the course of search brings objectivity to

the AO's satisfaction and ensures that the AO's conclusion is not based on conjectures or

surmises. If no material is found during the course of search operation, either in the form

of undisclosed asset or unaccounted entries or transactions, no undisclosed income can be

assessed because there may not be any edifice for the structure. However, if some

material has been found during the course of search, the AO would not be prevented from

making enquiries on the basis of such material or information under the provisions of

section 1432(2A) or 143(2). Thus, all the provisions ensure that subjective information

of the AO is substituted by material and information gathered either during the course of

search or post search enquiry. In order to arrive at whether a particular item constitutes

assessee's undisclosed income or not, the intention of the assessee assumes importance

and it has to be gathered from the conduct and has to be inferred from the material found

during the course of search, which will depend on facts and circumstances of each case. 34. Section 158BA which is a charging section, makes it clear that the AO is to assess

the undisclosed income in accordance with the provisions of Chapter XIV-B and the

undisclosed income is to be computed irrespective of the fact whether the regular

assessment for all the relevant assessment years is pending or not. It has been clarified in

the Explanation that the assessment made under this Chapter shall be in addition to 34 ITA No.444/Mum/2004 M/s. Triumph Securities Ltd
the regular assessment in respect of each previous year included in the block period

and necessary adjustments have to be made while computing the undisclosed income.

Thus, it is clear that only undisclosed income can be the subject matter of assessment

under Chapter XIV-B and not the income which has to be assessed under the regular

assessment. Now the question arises as to how to determine which income will come

within the ambit of undisclosed income. For that purpose we have to refer to the

provisions contained under section 158BB , which deals with the computation of

undisclosed income of the block period. The first part of section 158BB(1) makes it clear

that the total income of the block period has to be determined afresh and from that items

contemplated from clause (a) to clause (f) have to be excluded. As per clause (a), if the

assessment has already been made u/s.143 , 144 or 147, then the undisclosed income is to

be reduced by aggregate of the total income and increased by the aggregate of the losses

as determined on the basis of assessment made under those sections. As per clause (b), if

the assessments are pending in respect of returns filed u/s.139 and 147 , the same is to be

determined on the basis of such returns. The term 'determined" makes it clear that the

regular assessment has to be made simultaneously with Block Assessment on the basis of

the income disclosed in such returns. This will ensure a clear demarcation between

undisclosed income to be assessed in the block assessment and the income which is to be

assessed in regular assessment. This is also clear from the opening phrase of sub-

section(1) of section 158BB , which requires that the total income of the block period is

to be determined including the undisclosed income and then in order to find out the

undisclosed income, various deductions are contemplated from clauses (a) to (f).This

computation mode has specifically been laid down because undisclosed income is to be 35 ITA No.444/Mum/2004 M/s. Triumph Securities Ltd
determined on the basis of evidence found during the course of search and such other

material or information available with the AO and relatable to such evidence. 35. Now, we will consider the case laws relied upon by both the sides. a) CIT v. Bansal High Carbons (P)Ltd. , (2009) 223 CTR (Del) 179

 In this case, search was conducted on 11.9.2001 at various residential and
 business premises of a group of assesses, including the assessee,
 collectively called the Bansal Group. Nothing incriminating was found
 during the course of search except the books of account of the assessee
 and in order to verify the correctness of the books of account on
 25.9.2001, the Dy. Director of Income Tax recorded the statement of one
 V.P.Jain, in which, he stated that purchases of Rs.25 crores were made
 from Bansal Group out of which, delivery was made only to the extent of
 about Rs.2 or Rs.3 crores. In respect of balance of Rs.22 or Rs.23 crores,
 no material or steel wires were purchased and only bills were issued. The
 assessee on its part showed sales having been made in cash. The
 department's allegation was that V.P.Jain received a commission for
 giving these bills. However, subsequently, V.P. Jain retracted his
 statement. In the backdrop of these facts, it was held that in the absence
 of recovery of any incriminating material found during the search
 conducted in the premises of the assessee group, the statement of third
 party could not be used against the assessee in proceedings under Chapter
 XIV-B. It was held that in respect of block assessment, undisclosed
 income is required to be computed on the basis of evidence found during
 the course of search or being directly relatable to evidence found during
 the course of search. Subsequent enquiries in order to verify the
 correctness of books of account, cannot form the basis for computing the
 undisclosed income. This decision is clearly distinguishable on facts
 inasmuch as the statement of VP was recorded after the date of search and 36 ITA No.444/Mum/2004 M/s. Triumph Securities Ltd
 retracted subsequently. Thus, the vary basis of addition was disputed.
 However, in the present case, admittedly client ID mismatch was there. b) CIT v Shamlal Balram Gurbani [2000) 249 ITR 501 (Bom)

 In this case also, the Hon'ble Bombay High court upheld the findings of
 the Tribunal, where the Tribunal had recorded a finding that since
 assessee's income from interest, salary and rent was reflected in the
 audited balance sheet of the respective assessment years of the firm,
 therefore, no addition was called for in block assessment. Thus, income
 had already been recorded in the books, therefore, there was no question
 of any undisclosed income. c) CIT v. Jupiter Builders P.Ltd [2006) 287 ITR 287 (Delhi)

 In this case, a search was conducted at the residential and business
 premises of the assessee on February 21, 1997. The assessee was in the
 business of dealing in real estate. Different additions were made, which
 were deleted on the ground that search did not reveal any unexplained
 investment. It was held that without any material or basis, no estimates
 could be made particularly since the Assessing Officer was not an expert.
 These findings of the Tribunal were upheld by the Hon'ble Delhi High
 Court after taking note of clarification in the Memorandum explaining the
 provisions of the Finance (No.2) Bill, 1998, which states as under:- M/s. Triumph Securities Ltd
 The Hon'ble Delhi High court also noted the following observations of the
 Hon'ble Gauhati High court in the case of Dr Mrs Alaka Goswami and Dr
 Anil Kumar Goswami v CIT [2004] 268 ITR 178: Thus, in sum and substance, it was held that if no incriminating material
 was found during the course of search, then impugned amounts could not
 be subject matter of block assessment. d) CIT v. Vikram A Doshi [2002) 256 ITR 129(Bom)

 In this case, it was held that the transactions which were already disclosed
 in the returns could not be the subject matter of block assessment.
 However, effect of amended definition of undisclosed income under 38 ITA No.444/Mum/2004 M/s. Triumph Securities Ltd section 158B(b) by Finance Act, 2001 , w.e.f.1-6-2001 was not under
 consideration. e) Bhagawati Prasad Kedia v CIT , [2001) 248 ITR 562 (Bom)

 In this case the issue was whether the genuineness of the loan in question
 could be considered under the block assessment when the loan in question
 had duly been accounted for in the regular books of account found during
 the course of search. It was held that the AO was not entitled to question
 in block assessment the loan which was a subject mater of the regular
 assessment. In this case no incriminating material was found during the
 course of search to question the genuiness of loan. f) CIT v. P.K.Ganeshwar , [2009] 308 ITR 124 (Mad)

 In this case, a search took place on 10th September, 1997. Thereafter, in
 an investigation after the search, it was found that the assessee had made
 fixed deposits in fictitious names. It was held that the fixed deposit
 amounts could not be included in the undisclosed income of the block
 period because they were not detected as a result of the search but by the
 investigation which followed the search. After taking note of the decision
 of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of CIT v Ravi Kant
 Jain [2006) 250 ITR 141 (Delhi), wherein, it was held that block
 assessment is not intended to be a substitute for regular assessment and its
 scope and ambit is limited in that sense to materials unearthed during
 search and it is in addition to the regular assessment already done or to be
 done, the Hon'ble Madras High Court held that since the information
 relating to the fixed deposits in fictitious names was not found during the
 course of search, it could not be used to arrive at the undisclosed income
 under the block assessment under section 158BB . Here also no
 incriminating material was found to question the genuiness of fixed
 deposits. In this case, a search was conducted on 30th November, 1996. The
 assessee in its return filed in pursuance to notice u/s.158BC stated that
 there was no undisclosed income for the block period. However, since the
 seized material and the books of account were of complex nature in the
 block assessment proceedings, the Assessing Officer, with the approval of
 the Commissioner of Income tax, appointed special auditors. On the basis
 of the report of the special auditors and the seized material, the Assessing
 officer was of the view that the income was to be taxed as business income
 and not as capital gains and, accordingly, made a block assessment. It was
 held that since undisclosed income was not determined on the basis of any
 search material, it was found during the course of search, section 158BA had no application to the facts of the case. Here also no material was
 found during the course of search to suggest that assessee had not
 disclosed its income. h) Dang & Co. (P)Ltd v DCIT , [2005) 94 ITD 29 (Delhi)(TM)

 In this case, the assessee was an Estate Agent. An amount of Rs.55 lakhs was
 standing as balance to the credit of one 'C" and it was shown in the balance sheet
 filed by the assessee alongwith the regular returns of income for the assessment
 year 1994-95. The learned Third Member held that the genuineness of the
 amount could have been gone into only in the case of regular assessment when the
 assessee had duly disclosed the amount in its balance sheet. The assessee had
 discharged its part of the obligation by disclosing the amount in the balance sheet
 and by filing the return. It was not the assessee's fault that no assessment was
 made. Thus, it was held that the assessee could not resort to block assessment
 proceeding to go into the genuineness of the loan. Here also no material was
 found during the course of search to question the genuiness of loan. 40 ITA No.444/Mum/2004 M/s. Triumph Securities Ltd i) Morarjee Goculdas Spg & Wvg. Co. Ltd v. DCIT[2005] 95 ITD 1(Mum)
 (TM). In this case, a search was conducted u/s.132 as a sequel to all India
 investigations in respect of the lease transactions entered into by a large
 number of assesses who claimed 100 per cent depreciation on leased
 assets. Consequent to return filed u/s.158BC , an assessment was made by
 the Assessing officer under section 158BC(c) disallowing the assessee's
 claim for 100 per cent depreciation on leased assets on the ground that the
 lease transactions claimed by the assessee were only on paper and the
 assessee had falsely claimed 100 per cent depreciation allowance and that
 the amount of depreciation allowance claimed by the assessee represented
 assessee's undisclosed income. The said disallowance was disputed by
 the assessee on the ground that no material was found in the search which
 could lead to an inference that assessee's claim for depreciation was
 disallowed. The learned Third member, inter alia, held as under: 36. Now we will consider the reliance placed by ld D.R. i) CIT v Ajay Kumar Sharma [2002) 259 ITR 240(Raj)

 In this case, it was held that merely because some entries were shown in
 the books of account that did not prohibit the Assessing Officer from 42 ITA No.444/Mum/2004 M/s. Triumph Securities Ltd
 taxing that amount in the block period, if that amount had not been taxed
 in the regular assessment. It was held that if the cash credits were not
 taxed in the relevant assessment years, they can be treated as undisclosed
 income and can be taxed after search in block period. Thus, it was held
 that on the basis of search, enquiries can be conducted in order to find out
 the genuineness of the cash credits. At this juncture, we may point out
 that ld Counsel for the assessee has distinguished this decision by pointing
 out that in this case also during the course of search , incriminating and
 loose papers pertaining to the assessee were found. The Hon'ble High
 court reversed the decision of the Tribunal, wherein, it was held that once
 the cash deposits have been shown in the books of account maintained by
 the assessee in the regular course of business, then addition is not
 warranted in block assessment. The Hon'ble Rajasthan High Court has,
 inter alia, observed as under:- ii) Triumph International Finance India Ltd v. DCIT (IT (SS)330/2004
 for the block period 1.4.90 to 23.3.2001. In this case, the Tribunal under identical circumstances has held as under: 37. From the above decisions, following principles can be discerned: In the backdrop of above discussion, let us now examine the specific issues, as noted

earlier. a) Whether books of account maintained in regular course of business found
 during the course of search constitute 'evidence' as contemplated u/s.158BB of the Act or not? M/s. Triumph Securities Ltd 38. Section 132 deals with the provisions relating to search and seizure and if the

authorities mentioned in the said section have reason to believe that any person to whom

summon has been issued to produce any books of account or other documents omitted or

failed to produce the same or the authority has reason to believe that the person to whom

summon or notice has been issued but the said person would not produce the books of

account or documents, then search can be carried out. Section 158 BB clearly states that

undisclosed income is to be computed, inter alia, on the basis of books of account or

requisition of such books. 39. Section 3 of the Evidence Act defines following words as under: As per the first illustration given in section 3 , there are certain objects arranged in a certain order in a
certain place, is a fact. The term "document" as defined in section 3 means any matter, expressed or described, upon any
substance, by means of letter, figures or marks, or by more than one of those means, intended to be used, or
which may be used, for the purpose of recording that matter. The meaning of evidence, inter alia, includes
documents including writing pad produced for the inspection of the Court. The term "relevant" has been defined, as under:- Section 34 of the Evidence Act reads as under:- 40. The term "Document" has been defined in Blacks Law Dictionary as under: 41. Therefore, the regular books of account which record the relevant facts in

documentary form have to be treated as evidence in terms of section 158BB. b) Whether the transactions recorded in the regular books of account
 can be subject matter of addition in block assessment or not? 42. As per section 158B(b), if an entry or transaction in the books of account

represents wholly or partly income or property which has not been or would not have

been disclosed then same comes within the purview of undisclosed income. The term 'Entry' has been defined in Black's Law Dictionary as under: The term "transaction" has been defined in Black's Law Dictionary as under:- It is pertinent to note that definition uses both the terms viz. Entry and Trasaction. The

object is to cover all facts stated in the books of account. Mere recording of transaction 46 ITA No.444/Mum/2004 M/s. Triumph Securities Ltd
in the books of account is of no consequence unless the true income has been disclosed.

If in the course of search any material is found, which, prima-facie shows that the

transaction recorded in the books of account does not disclose the assessee's income

then on the basis of material found, inference is to be drawn about the true nature of the

transaction, for determination of undisclosed income in block assessment. The material

found during the course of search leads to a contrary inference than as contemplated

u/s.132(4A) regarding the correctness of the entry in the books of account. However, if

no material is found during the course of search then transactions in regular books cannot

be the subject matter of block assessment. 43. Therefore, we conclude that if the material has been found during the course of

search from which, it can be concluded that the transactions recorded in the books of

account do not disclose the assessee's true income then such transactions are to be

considered in the block assessment. c) Whether the client ID mismatch found during the course of search
 constitute 'material' as contemplated u/s.158BB(1) or not particularly
 when punching of client ID was not mandatory pre-August 2001? 44. In para 12.2 of the assessment order, the AO observed that on the basis of data
and on the basis of further evidences gathered, it has been observed that in some of the
transactions there are difference as regards the identity of the party/client on whose
behalf the transaction is undertaken as found in the books of the assessee and what is
recorded in the records of Stock Exchange. Thus, it had been observed that there are
certain discrepancies as to the client code as per the Stock Exchange record vis-a-vis
regularly maintained books of account of the assessee. 45. Ld CIT (A) in para 4.6 of his order has, inter alia, observed as under:- 47 ITA No.444/Mum/2004 46. The undisclosed income is to be computed on the basis of evidence found as a

result of search and such other material or information as are available with the AO and

relatable to such evidence. Thus, on the date of passing the block assessment order, the

AO has to take into consideration the information relatable to the evidence found during

the course of search, which is available with him. The block assessment is a complete

procedure of assessment as contemplated for regular assessment and he has to comply

with all the conditions which are there in the regular assessment. He has to scrutinize in

detail the evidence and material found during the course of search and also to take into

consideration the information available with him to find out whether the income which

should have been disclosed in the books of account has actually been disclosed or not.

The AO has to examine the material found during the course of search in order to find out

the real element of undisclosed income embedded in the material found and for that

purposes inferences have to be drawn from the material found. A complete scrutiny of

the material found during the course of search has to be carried out. However, if after 50 ITA No.444/Mum/2004 M/s. Triumph Securities Ltd
complete scrutiny of all the materials found during the course of search, he reaches a

conclusion that no part of the undisclosed income is embedded in the transaction

recorded in the books of account, then no addition is called for and whatever has been

disclosed in the regular return of income is to be taken into consideration while

aggregating the total income. 47. Section 158BC(d) makes the provisions of sections 142 , 143(2) , 143(3) and 144 also are applicable to the assessment to be made under this Chapter. Therefore, the AO

will be entitled to make the enquiries u/s.143(2) during the proceedings u/s.158BC as

well and the words "such other material or information as are available with the AO and

relatable to such evidence" shall be construed, inter alia, to include all such information

which is collected in post search enquiries, if they are relatable to the evidence collected.

Since all the provisions of section 142 are applicable to assessment under this Chapter, it

is always open to the AO to resort to the provisions of section 142(2A) which deals with

the compulsory audit and the findings of compulsory audit have to be taken into

consideration while determining the undisclosed income. Thus, it is clear from the bare

reading of provisions of section 158BB that subsequent information which is relatable to

the evidence gathered can be taken into consideration. e) Whether any addition could be made in respect of the

 transactions resulting into client ID mismatch for non- furnishing of confirmation, when the assessee had furnished

 more than 98% of the confirmations from the clients for the 51 ITA No.444/Mum/2004 M/s. Triumph Securities Ltd
 transactions done on their behalf as a stock broker and

 accepted by the department? 48. We have noted that in Chapter XIV-B, the undisclosed income has to be

separately computed in accordance with the provisions of section 258BB. In the present

case, the assessee had offered explanation regarding client ID mismatch and when

auditors required the assessee to furnish the confirmations from the parties, the assessee

was not able to furnish the confirmations in respect of all the transactions. The AO

accepted the ownership of the transactions being belonging to the third parties on the

basis of confirmations filed. However, the fact remains that the client ID mismatch was

there and to the extent the onus, which lay completely on the assessee, remains un-

rebutted, the adverse conclusion had to be drawn from the said mismatch. The assessee

has relied on the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Anis Ahmad and

Sons v CITG, [2008]297 ITR 441(SC). In this case, the dispute was whether the assessee

was a trader or commission agent. The assessee's claim was that he was a commission

agent and this was accepted for the assessment year 1983-84. However, for A.Y. 1984-

85, the AO assessed the assessee as a trader and not as commission agent. The ITAT had

remanded the matter to the AO for providing the assessee an opportunity to file evidence

in support of its claim. The AO summoned 10 traders u/s.131(1) , out of which, 5 traders

appeared and gave evidence in favour of the assessee and other five who were outside the

State, did not appear as the summons could not be served on them. In the backdrop of

these facts, it was held that the assessee could not be held responsible for the non

appearance of five traders who were outside the State and from their non-appearance, no

adverse inference could be drawn by the authorities against the assessee. However, this 52 ITA No.444/Mum/2004 M/s. Triumph Securities Ltd
case is of little help to the assessee inasmuch as in the present case, the client ID

mismatch was found in respect of specific transactions which were put to scrutiny. This

fact is to be taken into consideration in the backdrop of proceedings which were taken up

by JPC. Therefore, merely by filing confirmation in respect of 98% of its clients, it

cannot be said that the assessee had discharged its burden in respect of the transactions.

Further, wherever the transactions have been confirmed, the same could not be taken as

benami transations belonging to the assessee. Thus, we conclude that merely by

furnishing 98% confirmations , it cannot be held that the assessee had fully discharged its

burden that the transactions did not belong to him. The balance transactions, if not duly

confirmed, have to be considered as undisclosed income of the assessee. f) Whether any addition could be made as unexplained investment
 applying the provisions of section 69 of the Act when the transactions
 are recorded in the regular books of account? 49. As per section 158BB(2) in computing the undisclosed income of the block

period, the provisions of sections 68 , 69 , 69A, 69B and 69C shall, so far as may be, apply

and references to 'financial year' in those sections shall be construed as references to the

relevant previous year falling in the block period including the previous year ending with

the date of search or of the requisition. Sub-section(3) puts the burden on the assessee to

establish that any undisclosed income had already been disclosed in any return of income

filed by the assessee before the commencement of search or of the requisition, as the

case may be. These sections make it clear that the assessee has to establish that when and

how the disclosure was made and whether or not a particular asset, entry or transaction 53 ITA No.444/Mum/2004 M/s. Triumph Securities Ltd
constituted income or how the asset was acquired or what the nature of entry or

transaction. Therefore, to the extent income has not been disclosed by the assessee,

which is embedded wholly or partly in the asset found during the course of search or in

the transaction noticed in the books of account, to that extent the provision of sections

68 to 69 C will be applicable. Once these sections have specifically been made

applicable to the provisions of block assessment, therefore, Chapter XIV-B being a

specific code, the provisions have to be considered in the context of the provisions of this

Chapter. It is in the context of undisclosed income that these sections have specifically

been incorporated in sub-section(2) of Section 158BB. Therefore, once it is established

that there is concealed undisclosed income in the entries recorded in the books of

account, to that extent the provisions of section 68 would be applicable and merely

because the entire transactions have been recorded in the books of account, the

applicability of section 69 cannot be ruled out. We, accordingly, hold that the provisions

of section 69 would be applicable to the extent of the income not disclosed in the

transactions recorded in the books of account. It is pertinent to note that in section 69 ,

unexplained investment has been defined with reference to the entire value of the

investments not recorded in the books of account which is being treated as the income of

the assessee of such financial year. Thus, it is primarily the income which has not been

recorded in the books of account is of real consideration and the same, as noted earlier,

has to be considered in the light of the provisions of block assessment. 50. From the above discussion, the following aspects can be summarized as under: 54 ITA No.444/Mum/2004 51. In the light of above discussion, we conclude that undisclosed income embedded

in various transactions recorded in books of account found on the basis of client ID

mismatch constituted subject matter of Block Assessment. This issue is, therefore,

decided against the assessee. 52. Now coming to the merits of additions, we find that the department itself has not

treated those transactions as benami, wherein, the assessee has filed confirmations. Ld

counsel for the assessee has submitted that before ld CIT (A) confirmations were filed,

which could not be obtained till the conclusion of block assessment, therefore, in the

interest of justice, matter be restored back to the file of the Assessing Officer to examine

the confirmations which were filed before ld CIT (A) and to decide the issue in 56 ITA No.444/Mum/2004 M/s. Triumph Securities Ltd
conformity with the findings of those cases where confirmations have been accepted. Ld

counsel for the assessee has pointed out the fallacies in the additions made by the AO,

which we have noted in his arguments, therefore, the same have to be taken into

consideration by the AO before arriving at any conclusion. 53. The next point which ld counsel for the assessee emphasized is that in case the

addition is being made on the basis of transactions recorded in the books of account then

no addition is to be made for the brokerage amount. We find considerable force in this

contention of the assessee because if brokerage is not reduced then it will lead to double

taxation. With these observations, we restore the matter back to the file of the Assessing

officer. 54. While parting with, we may place on record our deep appreciation for the

extensive arguments advanced by both the sides, which helped us to decide this issue. 55. In the result, appeal filed by the assessee is treated as partly allowed for statistical
purposes.