The sole accused (appellant herein) has preferred

this appeal against the judgment of conviction and order

of sentence dated 04-12-2014 passed by the I Additional

District and Sessions Judge, Mandya, in S.C.No.41/2013

(hereinafter referred to as "Trial Court" for short)

convicting the appellant/accused for the offence

punishable under Section 302 of I.P.C. and sentencing him

to undergo Imprisonment for life and to pay fine of

`20,000/-, in default, to undergo six months'

imprisonment for the offence under Section 302 I.P.C. 2. We have heard the arguments of the learned

counsel for the appellant/accused, Sri.A.H. Bhagawan and

also the learned SPP-II, Sri. I.S. Pramod Chandra, for the

respondent State. We have carefully re-evaluated the

evidence on record and also perused the judgment of the

Trial Court. 3. Before adverting to the submissions made by the

learned counsel for the appellant/accused and the learned

SPP-II, for the respondent state we would like to have the

brief factual matrix of this case. 4. It is the case of the prosecution that, the accused

was the resident of Banduru Village in Malavalli Taluk,

Mandya District. He was residing in a pump set shed,

situated in Bandur Village, on the road leading to

Hittanakoppalu along with his wife and their two children.

The first child-Nirmala aged 8 years, was both mentally

and physically challenged girl and another girl was a small

child. It is further case of the prosecution that the accused

was addicted to alcohol and used to quarrel with his wife

in demand of money for the purpose of his vice habits. In

this context, it is alleged that on 10-11-2012, in the

evening at about 5:00 'O' clock, the accused started

quarrelling with his wife, and in fact the accused assaulted

his wife with a club, and she sustained injury which was

seen by PWs. 1 and 2, who have resolved the dispute

between the husband and wife. 5. Thereafter, on the same day at about 5.30

p.m., the accused brought the kerosene can, poured

kerosene on a heap of firewood dumped near pump set

shed, which was by the side of the road and lit fire and

thereafter, he went inside his shed and dragged his

physically and mentally challenged 8 year old daughter-

Nirmala and threw her into the burning fire. The child

started crying, but in spite of that the accused did not

mind to extinguish the fire and rescue the child and in

fact he was declaring that he himself has done that act

and he would go to jail. PW.1 ( complainant), though has

seen this particular act, he could not go to rescue the

child, because he was scared by the attitude of the

accused, who was standing by the side of the fire holding

a club in his hand. Everybody in the lane of shed knew

about the wicked behaviour of the accused, therefore, no

one has attempted to extinguish the fire and rescue the

child. Thereafter, PW.1 lodged a complaint before the

police which was registered in Crime No. 180/2012 for the

offence punishable under Section 302 of IPC. The police 5 after thorough investigation, laid the charge sheet against

the accused. 6. The prosecution has examined as many as 17

witnesses viz., PWs. 1 to 17 and got marked Exs. P1 to

P35 and also the material objects as per MOs. 1 to 3.

During the course of cross-examination of PW.1, Ex.D1 to

D4 (Photographs) were got marked. 7. Sri. A.H. Bhagavan, learned counsel for the

appellant, though at the initial stages argued that the trial

Court has not properly appreciated the oral and

documentary evidence and it erroneously convicted the

accused on the interested testimony of PWs. 1 & 2 and

though the other similar witnesses have turned hostile to

the prosecution case. But, ultimately he concentrated his

arguments with reference to the conduct of the accused

and further submitted that, even if the entire evidence of

the prosecution is accepted, the accused was a drunkard

and he used to come home everyday in drunken state and

demanding money from his wife and when she refused to

pay money, he used to assault her. Therefore, in that 6 context, on the date of incident also he might have come

to the house fully drunk and he was not able to balance

himself and without foreseeing the consequences of his

act, he might have done that particular act. Therefore, at

the most, his act may fall under Section 304-II of IPC.

Therefore, the learned counsel requested the court to

modify the judgment of conviction and sentence passed by

the trial Court. 8. Per contra, Sri. I.S. Pramod Chandra, learned

SPP-II strenuously submitted before the court that, it is

one of the classic cases of barbaric act. The accused killed

his own daughter in demand of money from his wife that

too the pension amount granted in favour of the physically

and mentally challenged child, which was received by his

wife (PW.6) on that day. When the accused demanded for

that money, his wife refused to give the same, therefore,

he assaulted her and made her to run away from the

spot, and thereafter, he killed his own child. The learned

SPP has contended that, there are two eye-witnesses to

the incident and all the circumstances also go to show

that the accused has intentionally and deliberately killed 7 his own daughter, therefore, there is absolutely no room

for this court to interfere with the impugned judgment of

conviction and sentence passed by the trial Court, and he

prayed for dismissal of this appeal. 9. After hearing the learned counsel on both

sides and on careful evaluation of the material available on

record, we would like to have a cursory look at the

evidence of the witnesses, as under: examination, Ex.D1 to D3 were got marked. 9.2 PW2-Gowramma is another eye-witness, who

is no other than the wife of PW.1. Both PW.1 and PW.2

being neighbourers of the accused, have spoken about the

conduct of the accused and his family story. 8 9.3 PW.3-Chandrashekaraiah is another panch

witness to Ex.P2. Both PWs.1 and 3 have identified the

photographs Exs. P3 and P4. 9.4 PW.4-Ningaiah is the person, who telephoned

to the police with regard to the incident. Though he has

not fully supported the case of the prosecution, but he

has supported the case to the extent of informing the

police about the information received by him with regard

to the incident. 9.5 PW.5-Puttaraj is a relative of the wife of the

accused and he is a panch witness to Ex.P6-Spot Mahazar

of the place where the accused assaulted his wife and also

recovery of MO.3-Club, with which the accused assaulted

his wife. 9.6 PW.6-Manjula is no other than the wife of the

accused. She also stated about the circumstances

prevailing in her house prior to and on the date of the

incident. She has also spoken about the conduct of the

accused and also assault on her by the accused on the

date of the incident. She has also identified MO-3-Club 9 with which the accused assaulted her. Her evidence was

also corroborated with the evidence of PWs. 1, 2 and

others. 9.7 PW.7-Yogendrakumar S. is the doctor, who

treated PW.6 on the history of assault by the accused

and issued wound certificate as per Ex.P1 and also he

gave opinion that, the injuries found on PW.6 could be

caused by assault on a person with the weapon like MO.3.

He also corroborated the evidence of PWs. 1 & 2 and 6. 9.8 PW.8-Doddaiah and PW.9-Gendaiah are also

witnesses to the prosecution case. It is their statement

before police that, after they came to know about the

incident, they came to the spot and saw the accused

declaring that, he himself has committed murder of his

daughter. But these two witnesses have not supported

the case of the prosecution and they turned hostile. Their

statements are marked atExs. P22 and P23. 9.9 PW.10-D.S. Nagaraju is an agriculturist,

before whom, the accused had told that he has committed

the murder of his own daughter. He also turned hostile. 10 9.10 PW.11-Dr. Sangeetha is the Doctor who

conducted post-mortem examination on the dead body of

the deceased child Nirmala and issued post-mortem report

as per Ex.P25. She has also stated that the deceased

sustained burn injuries all over the body and the organs

were completely charred from head to midleg. Body is in

pugilistic attitude. Exposal of bones was the result of

internal burns. Heat crack on the left parietal bone in a

circular fasion around 4 cms. Left pluara cavity was

exposed due to heat crack measuring 6x10 cms. Larynx

and trachea charred sooth particles in the larynx present.

She has given her opinion that, the death was due to

shock as a result of 95% to 100% deep burns. She has

not been cross-examined by the defence. 9.11 PW.12-M.P. Nandeesha is the manager of

Corporation Bank, who deposed with regard to release of a

sum of Rs.1,000/- towards the physically handicapped

pension awarded to the deceased child Nirmala and the

said amount was given to PW.6-Manjula and he issued

certificate to that effect, as per Ex.P26. The evidence of

this witness is also corroborated by the evidence of PW.6. 11 8.12 PW.13-Anasuya and PW.14-Radhamani are

the women conciliators of GnanaSindhu Institution and

Santwana Women Institution respectively and they have

told about the dispute between the husband (accused) and

wife (PW.6) and resolution of dispute between them etc.

 9.13 PW.15-L. Sampath Kumar is the ASI. After

receipt of the information, he went with CPI to the spot

and saw the child burning in fire and they extinguished

the fire and took out the child from fire and shifted the

dead body of the child to the hospital. They also

conducted inquest as per Ex.P18. 9.14 PW.16-Santhosh is the PSI of Bindiganavile

Police Station, Nagamangala. After receipt of the

information, he also went to the spot and he in fact saw

the accused aggravating fire and also declaring that he

has actually committed the murder of his own daughter.

He has also deposed that, he witnessed the incident and

saw the dead body of the child. Exs. D2 and D3 are the

photographs and thereafter he received the complaint as

per Ex.P1 from PW.1 and registered a case in Crime No. 12 180/2012 and dispatched the FIR (Ex.P29) to the Court

and he gave report to PW.17 and handed over the further

investigation to PW.17. 9.15 PW.17-Pratap Reddy has apprehended the

accused, arrested him and after completion of

investigation, submitted the charge sheet against him. 10. The evidence of PWs. 1 & 2 in our opinion, is

totally deserving to be considered sofar as this case is

concerned. They are the eye-witnesses to the incident.

There is absolutely no dispute with regard to the factum of

the relationship between the accused and PW.6 and they

were blessed with two children, one is deceased Nirmala,

a physically and mentally challenged girl and another child

was aged about three years as on the date of the incident.

It is not in dispute that, the accused along with his wife

(PW.6) and two children viz., the deceased Nirmala and

another small child, were living in a pumpset shed, which

is situated near the house of PWs. 1 & 2. It is virtually

admitted in the course of cross-examination of PW.2 by

suggesting that, the deceased child was not protected in 13 the house and there was accidental fire in front the of the

house of the accused and the child itself crawled towards

the burning fire and accidentally fell into the fire and lost

its life. This suggestion clearly goes to show that, there

cannot be any dispute by the accused with regard to the

child sustaining burn injuries and died due to burn injuries.

In this background and with this admitted facts, we have

to examine the evidence of PWs. 1 & 2. 11. Both PWs. 1 & 2 have stated in their evidence

that, they were often witnessing the accused and the

deceased quarrelling with each other in their house and

the accused was often use to assault his wife and

quarrelling with her in demand of money in order to meet

his vice habits like smoking, consuming alcohol, etc. In

this background, it is stated by them that, on 10.11.2012,

PW.6-Manjula, the wife of the accused had been to

Channarayapatna for the purpose of receiving the

monthly pension of her physically handicapped child. It is

further stated by them that, nearby the shed of the

accused, there was a heap of fire wood and in fact, the

accused brought a kerosene can from the shed and poured 14 kerosene on that heap of fire wood and lit fire and

thereafter, he went inside the shed and dragged his

physically and mentally challenged 8 year old child and

threw her into the burning fire. The child started crying

and in spite of that, the accused did not try to rescue the

child or he allowed anybody to rescue the child and the

said child lost its life by sustaining severe burn injuries.

PWs.1 & 2 also stated that, the accused was holding a

club and standing by the side of the burning fire to which

he threw the child. Thereafter, PW.1 says that, he went to

the police and lodged a complaint as per Ex.P1. The police

came to the spot and took out the child from fire,

extinguished the fire, and shifted the burnt dead body of

the child to the hospital. He has also identified the

remains of the firewood marked as MOs. 1 & 2 and also

identified the place of incident as per photographs -Exs.

P3 and P4. He has also categorically deposed that, often

the accused was demanding his wife for money in order to

consume the alcohol. 11.1 Though lengthy cross-examination has been

adverted to PW.1 and to some extent on PW.2 also, but 15 the core of the prosecution case with regard to the death

of the deceased due to burn injuries, is not disputed.

Some questions have been put to PWs. 1 & 2 with regard

to the topography of the house of the accused as per

Exs. D1 to D3 (Photos). These witnesses have

categorically admitted the existence of a shed of the

accused and also the house of these witnesses, and other

circumstances which are available, on seeing the

photographs. This also clearly discloses that, these

witnesses are not interested witnesses and they stated

before the court what they have actually seen unmindfully,

whether it goes in favour of the prosecution or in favour

of the accused. It is also elicited in the course of cross-

examination that, on the next day of the incident, PW.1

has not seen PW.6-Manjula in Banduru village, which is

the place of incident and she was not present in the said

village on the date of incident. It is also elicited that, the

child-Nirmala was so incapable of moving around and it

used to crawl to move out from one place to another. He

has also stated that, when the accused was doing the said

cruel act, some people were also walking around the 16 place of incident, but no one attempted to rescue the

child because, they are scared of the accused and it is

reiterated that the accused was standing by the side

where the fire was burning and he was also abusing the

surrounding people and also saying that he himself has

committed such an act. Except elucidation of these facts,

nothing worth has been elicited so as to disbelieve the

evidence of these witnesses. 12. As we have already narrated, according to the

defence of the accused, it was accidental fire and due to

which the child has sustained burn injuries. But, absolutely

there is no foundation sofar as this aspect is concerned, on

other hand the admitted fact is that the child was unable

to move around on its own and it was virtually crawling.

In the course of evidence of PW.2, she further stated that,

she (PW.2) asked the accused just prior to the incident

that, why he assaulted his wife (PW.6) and for that, he

told that, it is his family affair and PW.2 should not poke

her nose to the same. Except that nothing worth is

available to disbelieve the evidence of these two

witnesses. 13. Apart from the evidence of PWs. 1 & 2, the

evidence of PW.3 also clearly indicates that, the police had

come to the spot for the purpose of conducting spot

mahazar at the initial stages. PW.1 has shown the spot

and has explained to the police as to how the incident

happened and the police have drawn mahazar as per

Ex.P2. In the course of cross-examination, it is elicited

that, this witness is related to PW.6 (wife of the accused).

But, in our opinion, it is not sufficient to doubt this witness

on the ground of any interestedness because, the

evidence of this witness is fully supported by the evidence

of PWs. 1 & 2with regard to happening of the incident,

police coming to the spot, drawing up of mahazar, shifting

the dead body of the deceased child -Nirmala to the

hospital for post-mortem examination etc.. 14. PW.4-Ningaiah, turned hostile to the

prosecution, but according to the prosecution, he received

information with regard to the incident to his mobile by

somebody. At that time, he was talking with one MLA

regarding the process of a Layout work, and he informed

the police over phone with regard to somebody litting fire 18 near Malavalli Canteen and thereafter the police came to

the spot in a jeep. Though he has not meticulously stated

about the involvement of the accused and other things,

but the intimation given to the police by this witness is

nevertheless admitted. PW.5 -Puttaraju is another

witness to Ex.P6 (Spot Mahazar) which was drawn in

respect of the case of assault by the accused on his wife.

In fact, PW.6 (wife of accused) shown the place where the

accused assaulted her and police drew a mahazar as per

Ex.P6 and recovered MO.3- a Club which was used by the

accused to assault his wife. The evidence of this witness

is worthless because the trial Court has acquitted the

accused for the offences punishable under Sections 323 and 324 of IPC sofar as assault on PW.6 is concerned and

even the Respondent-State has also not preferred any

appeal sofar as this aspect is concerned. 15. PW.6- Manjula, the wife of the accused is a

very unfortunate mother since she lost her child due to

ghastly act of her husband. She has categorically stated

about the conduct of the accused and in spite of such

conduct of the accused, she has been living with him. It is 19 stated by her that, initially she could not bear the torture

of the accused therefore, she went to Bengaluru for the

purpose of working in a Garment Factory, but, even there

also the accused started torturing, ill-treating and

harassing her; After some time, though some complaints

were lodged before the Mahila Santwana Institution and

Gnanasindhu Institution for resolution of their disputes,

but in spite of resolution of their dispute, the accused did

not heed to the advice of anybody. It is further deposed

PW.6, that she had two female children, out of them, the

elder daughter was physically handicapped and mentally

unsound. PW.6 has also stated that the sister of the

accused was also a physically handicapped lady. 16. Further, speaking on the incident, P.W.6 has

stated that, on that particular day, she had been to

Channarayapatna for the purpose of receiving the pension

amount allocated to her handicapped daughter and she

came back along with money. Then the accused

demanded PW.6 for the said money, but she did not

accede to his request, therefore, the accused assaulted

her with a club. Immediately, she grabbed her small child 20 and escaped from the clutches of the accused and while

escaping she fell down and sustained some injuries and

she went to Mandya Hospital and admitted there. But

another child was in the shed at that particular point of

time and she came to know in the night hours of the date

of incident that the accused has burnt her first child by

throwing her into fire and committed her murder. On the

next day morning she came to know that her the child

was shifted to the hospital and the child was already dead. 17. In the course of cross-examination, of course

some contradictions as per Ex.P20 are elicited with regard

to the accused declaring that, if she do not pay any

amount, he would kill the child, but the remaining portion

of the evidence is not disturbed. In the course of cross-

examination though some facts are elicited with regard

topography of the house of the accused and PW.1 & 2, but

nothing worth has been elicited from the mouth of this

witness with regard to earlier dispute or quarrel between

the husband and wife. Therefore, there is no reason to

disbelieve the evidence of this witness. 21 18. Further added to the above, the Court can

visualize that the wife of the accused so courageously

coming to the court deposing against her own husband

knowing fully well the consequences of such deposition

before the court. If her deposition and the evidence of the

prosecution is accepted, she knew that the accused would

go behind the bars. But the other factum also to be

looked into is that, she lost her daughter, particularly a

child which was in need of help from its parents.

Therefore, she has courageously and rightly deposed

before the court to implicate the accused person into the

crime. 19. As we have already discussed, PW7-

Yogendrakumar, the Medical Officer, MIMS Hospital,

Mandya, has issued the injury certificate in respect of

PW.6-Manjula . However, there is no need to discuss

much in that regard, because the accused has already

been acquitted of the offence under Section 324 of IPC.

The other witness PW.11-Dr.Sangeetha has not been

cross-examined and the nature of the injuries sustained by 22 the deceased Nirmala has been very well spoken to by

PW.11-Dr. Sangeetha and she has stated that the body of

the deceased child was completely charred and she

sustained 95% to 100% burns, due to which, she

succumbed to injuries. 20. The other witnesses, in our opinion, are not so

relevant as we have already to some extent discussed the

evidence of those witnesses. The Investigating Officer,

particularly PSI has in fact stated that, after receiving the

information, he went to the spot along with his staff and

he saw the accused aggravating the fire with the help of a

club and declaring that he himself has put the child into

flames. After extinguishing the fire with the help of his

staff, this witness removed the dead body of the child and

they found the major portion of the body was already

burnt and he shifted the dead body of the child to the

hospital. He was not much cross-examined. 21. Again we find absolutely no acceptable evidence

in the cross-examination of any witnesses which in fact in

any manner defend the accused either to acquit him or to 23 reduce the sentence. If the act of the accused is

visualized, it was not committed at the instance of

anybody. The fact projected that he had consumed

alcohol on that particular date and time, and there is no

evidence to show that he drank so much of alcohol so

that he was unable to foresee the consequences of his act

or incident and he was so imbalanced to act upon, so that

the court can come to the conclusion that he lost the

balance on his mind and his mental capacity was so

deteriorated, therefore, under such circumstances he

might have committed the offence. It is not that the

accused has simply committed such an offence of

dragging his own handicapped child up to fire and threw

her into fire, which was lit by him by the side of his shed.

Even he has not realized or repented about his acts and he

has not made any efforts to extinguish the fire and tried to

rescue the child. Even after the incident he has not

repented himself for his act. It is evident from records

that, absolutely there was no repentance on the part of

the accused, instead of that, he was declaring himself

that, he killed his daughter and he will go to jail and even 24 he had not allowed anybody to extinguish the fire and

rescue the child. He was so barbaric and cruel towards

his own small child, which was not even able to walk and

virtually it was crawling and he mercilessly threw that

child into the fire, even the said child was not mentally

sound to understand the situation and it was totally

dependent on its parents. Therefore, we find height of

cruelty on the part of the accused, which no ordinary man

can imagine at all whether a father can commit such an

act on his own child. Therefore, in the above

circumstances, the aforesaid offence of the accused does

not fall either under Part -I or Part-II of Section 304 of

IPC. Rather at the initial stages we asked the prosecutor,

whether any appeal has been preferred with reference to

inadequacy of the sentence imposed by the trial Court

against the accused and it stated that no such appeal has

been filed. Therefore, in the absence of any appeal being

filed by the Respondent-State, in this appeal, we cannot

enhance the sentence or aggravate the sentence in any

manner, though the court on the facts and circumstances

inclined to do so. 22. In the above facts and circumstances of this

case, with heavy and painful heart towards departed

child we are of the opinion that, in this case, the trial

Court has properly appreciated the evidence of the

prosecution witnesses and convicted and sentenced the

accused for the offence under Section 302 of IPC.

Absolutely we find no reason to interfere with the

impugned judgment of conviction and sentence passed by

the trial Court. Hence, the appeal is devoid of merit and

the same is liable to be dismissed. Accordingly, the appeal is dismissed. Sd/- JUDGE

 Sd/- JUDGE

BMV/KGR*