The present appeal has been preferred by the assessee
against the order dated 31.12.2018 of the Commissioner of
Income Tax (Appeals) [hereinafter referred to as the CIT(A)]
relevant to assessment year 1992-93. 2. The facts in brief are that this is a second round of
litigation before the Tribunal. In the first round, the AO passed
assessment order under section 144 of the Act dated 28.02.1995
determining the total income at Rs.100,98,25,483/-. The said
additions were upheld by the Ld. CIT(A) vide order dated
03.01.1996. The assessee challenged the said order before the
Tribunal and the Tribunal vide its order dated 26.07.2007 set 2 ITA No.1414/M/2019 M/s. Cascade Holdings Pvt. Ltd. aside the matter to the file of Ld. CIT(A) for deciding the issues
afresh. In the second round of litigation, the additions and
disallowances were substantially confirmed by Ld. CIT(A) vide
his impugned order dated 31.12.2018 and the aggrieved
assessee is in appeal before us. The various grounds raised by
the assessee are as under: 97,29,79,373/- on account of the alleged speculative profit arising on shares held
 which were presumed to be carried forward and squared up on or before
 31.03,1992. The Appellant prays that the AO be directed to delete the said
 impugned addition. 6) On the facts and the circumstances of the case, the Hon'ble CIT(A) erred in
 holding that in
 In an eventuality of the additions made on the basis of incriminating seized material
 are finally
 deleted or restricted to an amount which is less than Rs.33,60,000/-, then addition
 of Rs. 33,60,000/- made on the basis of aggregate disclosure by the Harshad Mehta
 Group would survive. 7) On the facts and the circumstances of the case, the Hon'ble C!T(A) erred in
 upholding the action of the AO in allowing only Rs. 1.82.028/- as expenditure out of
 total expenditure of Rs. 3,49,042/- claimed by the Appellant. The Appellant
 respectfully requests for deletion of the said impugned addition. 8) On the facts and the circumstances of the case, the Hon'ble CIT(A) erred in
 upholding the action of the AO of disallowing short-term capital loss on sale of 9% 3 ITA No.1414/M/2019 M/s. Cascade Holdings Pvt. Ltd. IRFC bonds amounting to Rs. 48,93,466/- by invoking Section 94(4) of the Act. The
 Appellant respectfully requests for deletion of the said impugned addition. 9) On the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Hon'ble CIT(A) erred in
 upholding the action of AO in levying interest under Section 234A , 234B and 234C of the Income Tax Act, 1961. The Appellant craves leave to add, alter, vary, omit, substitute or amend the above
 grounds of appeal, at any time before or at the time of hearing of the appeal, so as
 to enable the Honorable Members to decide this appeal according to the law." 3. Ground Nos.1, 2 & 3 are general in nature and need no
adjudication. 4. The issue raised in ground No.4 is against the order of Ld.
CIT(A) upholding the addition of Rs.81,15,850/- made by the AO
towards profit in money market operations. 5. The assessee has also filed an additional ground vide letter
dated 03.03.2020 a part whereof is connected to ground no. 4
and is required to be adjudicated together. The additional
ground is reproduced as under: 6. The said additional ground is being taken up at this stage
because the security trading loss of Rs.76,76,455/- has a
bearing on ground No.4 as the assessee has submitted before
the Bench that this loss may kindly be allowed to be set off
against the addition made of Rs.81,15,850/-. The assessee has
also raised the issue of depreciation of Rs.4,72,678/- with the
prayers that the same may kindly be allowed as the same has
been provided in the assets used in the business of the assessee.
The Ld. A.R. submitted before the Bench that in the first round
of litigation the Tribunal vide its order dated 26.06.2007 passed
in ITA No.2222/M/1996 has set aside the matter to the file of 4 ITA No.1414/M/2019 M/s. Cascade Holdings Pvt. Ltd. Ld. CIT(A) with the direction to examine the books of accounts
which were filed as additional evidence before the tribunal. The
Ld. A.R. submitted that even in the set aside proceedings the Ld.
CIT(A) has not accepted the books of accounts and has not
granted certain allowances/deductions as per the books of
accounts. The assessee submitted that the additional ground is
being raised as the same was not taken inadvertently at the time
of filing the appeal against the order of Ld. CIT(A). The Ld. A.R.
submitted that the issue raised in the additional ground of
appeal is emanating out of the records before the authorities
below and new facts are required to be brought on record or
verified. The Ld. A.R. therefore requested that the same may
kindly be admitted and decided in the interest of justice and
equity. In defence of his argument, the Ld. A.R. relied on the
following three decisions: 7. The Ld. D.R., on the other hand, strongly opposed the
admission of additional grounds raised at this stage by raising
doubts about the intention of the assessee. The Ld. D.R.
submitted that the assessee has neither raised this ground in
the first round of litigation nor at the time of filing this appeal
before the Tribunal. The Ld. D.R. submitted that only the legal
issue can be allowed to be raised at this stage and not the 5 ITA No.1414/M/2019 M/s. Cascade Holdings Pvt. Ltd. factual issue as has been sought to be raised and racked up by
the assessee. Therefore, the Ld. D.R. submitted that the
additional ground may kindly be dismissed. 8. Having heard the rival submissions and perusing the
material on record, we find that the issue raised by the assessee
are arising out of the assessment records before the authorities
below and does not require any verification of facts or any fresh
material being brought on record. The assessee is very well
within its right to raise these issues before the Tribunal and
accordingly we are inclined to admit the additional ground for
adjudication before us. 9. The facts in brief are that the AO, on the basis of contract
notes related to money market transactions issued by M/s.
Harshad S. Mehta to the assessee, observed that assessee has
earned an aggregate of Rs.81,15,850/- from seven money
market transactions and accordingly added the same to the
income of the assessee. In the first round of litigation, the Ld.
CIT(A) noted that assessee has entered into money market
transactions resulting into a profit of Rs.81,15,850/- which even
the assessee has not disputed. The Ld. CIT(A) also noted in the
first round that only grievance of the assessee was that it had
also entered into similar transactions resulting into losses which
have not been allowed to be set off against the profit from money
market transactions. 10. In the second round of litigation, the assessee submitted
before the Ld. CIT(A) that it has earned a net income of
Rs.4,39,395/- after claiming a set off of trading losses of 6 ITA No.1414/M/2019 M/s. Cascade Holdings Pvt. Ltd. Rs.76,76,455/- and offered the same as income from
speculation business in its books of accounts. It was submitted
that the said books of accounts have been duly audited by the
auditors and their genuineness can not be doubted or
questioned in absence of any contrary evidences being brought
on records , however, the Ld. CIT(A) dismissed the arguments of
the assessee by observing and holding as under: 11. The Ld. A.R. submitted before the Bench that Ld. CIT(A)
has failed to appreciate the facts as available on record. The Ld.
A.R. submitted that profit from money market transactions of
Rs.81,15,850/- is a speculative profit and eligible to be set off
against the loss from share transactions which were of
speculative in nature on which the assessee has incurred an 7 ITA No.1414/M/2019 M/s. Cascade Holdings Pvt. Ltd. aggregate loss of Rs.76,76,455/-. The Ld. A.R. referred to the
page No.70 of the paper book which is a share trading account
and contains entries in respect of the aforesaid money market
transactions and submitted that in the said account only the
difference is credited as profit without taking total value of
transactions of purchase and sale for the reason that assessee
has not taken delivery of securities as the same was not
intended. The Ld. A.R. submitted that these transactions were
in fact settled without taking and giving any delivery and
therefore assessee was entitled to only the difference between
purchase and sale price of transactions. The Ld. A.R. submitted
that had the assessee carried out these transactions by taking
physical delivery it would have accounted for the purchase and
sale of securities instead of difference amount. The Ld. A.R.
submitted that these accounting entries have not been disputed
or doubted by the AO. The Ld. A.R. submitted that the AO
worked out the amount of addition only on the basis of the
amounts of difference credited in the books of accounts which
shows profit on account of net difference of purchase and sale
prices and is of speculative in nature. The Ld. A.R. also referred
to copies of contract notes and bills as submitted before the AO
and dealt with by him at page No.6 para 5 of the assessment
order and only after doing necessary analysis he has tabulated
the profits under the head "Amount of difference" on page No.7
of the order. The Ld. A.R., therefore, prayed that the profit from
money market transactions are in the nature of speculative
profit and hence eligible for set off against loss from speculative
transactions in shares. The Ld. A.R. also submitted that issue
as to whether the money market transactions are speculative or 8 ITA No.1414/M/2019 M/s. Cascade Holdings Pvt. Ltd. not has come up before the co-ordinate bench of the Tribunal in
the case of Growmore Research & Assets Management Ltd. vs.
DCIT ITA No.1785/M/2015 A.Y. 1990-91 wherein the co-
ordinate bench of the Tribunal vide order dated 28.02.2017 has
held that transaction of sale and purchase of units and
government securities without taking actual delivery would fall
within the ambit of speculative transactions as defined under section 43(5) of the Act and therefore are eligible for setting off
against the losses from share market transactions. The Ld. A.R.
finally prayed before the Bench that loss from share
transactions of Rs.76,76,455/- may kindly be allowed to be set
off and adjusted against the profit from money market
transactions by setting aside the order of ld CIT(A) and AO may
be directed to take the net difference 4,39,395/- as income. 12. We have heard the rival submissions of both the parties
and perused the material on record as placed before us
including the order of AO and Ld. CIT(A). We find that AO has
made an addition of Rs.81,15,850/- as profit from trading in
money market securities on the basis of contract notes from
seven money market transactions. We have examined and
analysed facts and opine that profit from money market
transactions is a speculative profit and eligible to be set off
against the losses incurred on the share transactions of
speculative nature. The Ld. CIT(A) has given a finding that
transaction of money market are always backed by bank
receipts or actual bonds and thus profit or loss arising from
money market transactions are non speculative in nature,
however, after examining the records before us we find that in
this case the physical delivery has not taken place and therefore 9 ITA No.1414/M/2019 M/s. Cascade Holdings Pvt. Ltd. the transactions of sale and purchase of securities are
speculative transactions and so is the profit resulting from those
transactions. The speculative transactions are defined under section 43(5) of the Act and are eligible to be set off against the
loss of share transactions. Accordingly, we hold that the
speculative loss from share market transactions of
Rs.76,76,455/- is eligible to be set off against the profit from
trading in money market securities at Rs.81,15,850/-. The case
of the assessee is also covered by the decision of the co-ordinate
bench of the Tribunal in the case of Growmore Research and
Assets Management Ltd. vs. DCIT (supra) wherein the co-
ordinate bench of the Tribunal has held as under: 5.6 Thus, the Special Court has held that forward transactions in
Government securities are not illegal. 5.7 The case of the assessee has to be considered in the light of the above
judgment of the Special Court. The claim of loss made by the assessee was
rejected by the Assessing Authority on the ground that the transactions
entered into by the assessee were illegal, and therefore, expenses 'or losses
relating to illegal business cannot be allowed as deductions. The assessee
was in fact dealing in forward transactions of Government securities. The
transactions were entered through brokers. The assessee enters into
agreement for forward delivery of Government securities with one set of
parties through the broker. Immediately, the assessee also enters into
forward purchase of Government securities from other set parties through
the broker. Delivery of the instruments is never taken place. The
transactions are finally settled off by paying the differential amount. The
transactions are speculative transactions. The assessee has also shown
income out of same-set of transactions, which is more than the loss
declared by the assessee. The Assessing officer has assessed the profit as income. But he declined to
allow the loss as deduction on the ground of illegality. M/s. Cascade Holdings Pvt. Ltd. 5.8. In the light of the judgment of the Special Court, as mentioned above, it
 is to be held that the forward transactions entered into by the assessee
 were not illegal. Therefore, the loss cannot be disallowed on that ground." 3.8. Thus, from the above order it is clear that special court has held that the
 forward transactions in Government securities were not illegal. It was further held
 that these transactions were speculative transactions. As far as reliance placed by
 Ld. special counsel upon the judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of
 M/s. Appollo Tyres Ltd. (supra) is concerned, it is noted that the said judgment merely analysed the scope of section 73 wherein expression used by the legislature
 was 'shares'. On the other hand, the expression used in section 43(5) is not only
 'shares' but 'securities' as well'. This distinction has been very well analysed by the
 Delhi Bench of the Tribunal in the case of ANZ Grindlays Bank v. DCIT (supra)
 wherein it has been held after considering aforesaid judgment of Hon'ble Supreme
 Court in the case of Appollo Tyres Ltd. (supra) that transactions of sale and
 purchase of units and government securities by the assessee through a broker
 without exchange of actual delivery would fall within the scope of speculative
 transactions as defined in section 43(5) . Therefore, loss/profit from shares market
 transactions can very well be set off/adjusted against loss/profit of money market
 transactions. This issue has already been decided in favour of the assessee by the
 Tribunal in the case of group company of the assessee namely M/s. Growmore
 Leasing Investment (supra) as discussed above also. No distinction has been
 pointed out on facts or legal position by the Ld. Special Counsel of the Revenue,
 therefore respectfully following the order of the Tribunal in the case of M/s.
 Growmore Leasing Investment (supra) as well as ANZ Grindlays Bank v. DCIT
 (supra), we find that the claim of the assessee is allowable. Therefore disallowance
 made by the AO is directed to be deleted. Thus, ground no.2 is allowed." 13. In view of the above facts and circumstances and also the
decision of the co-ordinate bench of the Tribunal we are inclined
to set aside the order of Ld. CIT(A) and direct the AO to assess
the net income of Rs.4,39,395/- which is the difference between
the profit from trading in money market securities of
Rs.81,15,850/- and losses from share market transactions of
Rs.76,76,455/- as both being of speculative nature. 14. The issue raised in ground No.5 is against the additions
confirmed by Ld. CIT(A) as made by the AO (i) Rs.1,92,05,630/-
towards speculative profit on trading in shares and (ii)
Rs.97,29,79,373/- towards speculative profit arising on shares 12 ITA No.1414/M/2019 M/s. Cascade Holdings Pvt. Ltd. held by the assessee on 24.01.1992 which were presumed to be
carried forward and squared up on or before 31.03.1992. 15. The facts in brief are that in the assessment framed by the
AO, he observed that certain loose papers were found and seized
during the course of search relating to the assessee which
contained some share market position in the name of the
assessee on 24.01.1992. The copies of said papers are filed by
the assessee at page No.21 to 35 of the paper book. Based on
the said sheets/papers, the AO calculated the profit on sale of
shares which is attached as annexure 'B' to the assessment
order and filed at page No.36 to 44 of the paper book. The AO
also calculated the carry forward position as on 24.01.1992. In
respect of sale transactions reflected on these papers, the AO
computed the profit in respect of each scrip aggregating to
Rs.1,92,05,630/- and added the same to the income of the
assessee. 16. The AO also observed from certain daily position sheets
which were found and seized at the time of search from the
premises of brokerage firm M/s. J.H. Mehta that assessee also
held positions in various scripts. These sheets were containing
details of positions on various dates such as
24.1.1992,12.02.1992, 18.02.1992 & 27.02.1992. On the said
sheets several figures were noted against the names of various
shares and scrips. On the basis of said papers, the AO came to
conclusion that said notings reflected the position held by the
assessee in the shares of various companies as on the date when
these sheets were prepared. In some cases, the name of the
assessee was also mentioned. The AO prepared the statement 13 ITA No.1414/M/2019 M/s. Cascade Holdings Pvt. Ltd. showing the position on 4 different dates namely 24.01.1992,
12.02.1992, 18.02.1992 & 27.02.1992 in respect of scrips which
were appearing on the seized papers. The AO observed that the
position of various scrips shown in the name of the assessee on
various dates has either to result in delivery or has to be
squared up by sale of shares. Since the detail pertaining to
squaring up of position was not available on record, the same is
considered as squared up on 31.03.1992 or wherever
information of change in position is available on the day when
the position is changed. Based on this conclusion, the AO
calculated the profit on squaring up of positions by presuming
that on each day subsequent to the date of the sheet the
position originally held in the name of the assessee was squared
off calculation whereof are as under: Rs.97,29,79,373/- on account of speculative income by squaring
up of positions in various scrips. 18. In the first round of litigation before Ld. CIT(A) these
additions were confirmed by Ld. CIT(A). In the set aside
proceedings before the Ld. CIT(A) also these additions were
confirmed by the ld CIT(A) by holding and observing as under: in respect of the shares purchased / sold on behalf of its various clients till the
sauda book was validated / corrected and only thereafter the said transactions of
the clients were posted in their respective ledgers and contract notes issued. It was
submitted that the initial entries were being made by the junior staff of M/s. J.H.
Mehta and therefore were prone to mistakes. The assessee contends that only few
of the transactions as per the said seized documents relate to it and they have been
duly recorded in its regular books and the bulk of the transactions relate to the
other entities of its group namely M/s Growmore Leasing, M/s Growmore
Research, M/s Harsh Estates, Jyoti H Mehta -investments, Jyoti H Mehta - trading,
M/s Mazda Industries, Deepika Mehta, Harshad Mehta, Hitesh Mehta, Pratima
Mehta, Rasila Mehta, Sudhir Mehta & Rina Mehta. In support of this claim, the
assessee also submitted an affidavit of M/s J H Mehta confirming the same. 14.13 On the above contentions, it is noted that the reliance placed by the assessee
on the affidavit submitted by M/s J H Mehta, confirming that only some of the 15 ITA No.1414/M/2019 M/s. Cascade Holdings Pvt. Ltd. transactions as per the said seized documents pertain to the assessee, is misplaced
since M/s J H Mehta is a part of Harshad Mehta group which together have been
implicated in the stock market scam. Therefore, the said affidavit is held to be only
self-serving in nature. Further, some glaring contradictions have been noted in the
contents of the said affidavit of M/s J H Mehta and the contentions made by the
assessee in the course of the present appellate proceedings, which are highlighted
in the subsequent paras. 14.14 In the said affidavit of M/s J H Mehta, it was stated that during the relevant
period some programming development was being undertaken for which certain
test data was required and the said seized documents are actually printout of such
test data. Accordingly, it was contended in the said affidavit that no reliance can be
placed on the said seized documents for the purpose of computing the income of
the assessee. The relevant portion of the affidavit of M/s J H Mehta is reproduced
as under: 12. In respect of the contents of Annexure 'A' enclosed with the above
 referred assessment order, I state that during the relevant period some
 programming development was being undertaken particularly for
 organizing networking of programs and the programs were needing certain
 test data. I say that the seized list i.e. 30 pages as enclosed with the
 assessment order is actually a print out of such test data. I say that the
 same is not the list of actual transactions undertaken by me on behalf of
 M/s. Cascade Holdings P. Ltd. as concluded by the Assessing Officer in the
 order. In support of the same, I state as follows:- 14.15 However, in the present appellate proceedings, it has been contended that
the said transactions as per the seized documents have actually taken place but 16 ITA No.1414/M/2019 M/s. Cascade Holdings Pvt. Ltd. only some of them relate to the assessee and the balance relate to the other
entities of the Harshad Mehta Group, etc. This itself shows that the claim made by
M/s J H Mehta in her affidavit as well as the contentions now being made that the
entire transactions do 'not pertain to the assessee but bulk of them pertain to other
entities of the Harshad Mehta Group, is only an afterthought. Similarly, the other
contention that the initial entries of the transactions carried out for the clients
were being made by junior staff which were prone to mistakes, is also held to be an
afterthought. 14.16 In the appellate proceedings it was contended that M/s J H Mehta was using
the dummy name "CASCADE HOLDING/CASCADE" in respect of the various
transactions undertaken for its clients prior to validation / correction. It was
claimed that only after necessary validation / correction, the transactions entered
by M/s J H Mehta on behalf of the clients were posted in their ledger accounts and
thereafter contract notes were issued. This claim of the assessee as well as M/s J H
Mehta cannot be accepted since from the client-wise break-up submitted, it is
observed that it also includes the name of M/s J H Mehta itself as one of the clients.
For example, as per the said client-wise break-up submitted, the position of ACC
shares in respect of M/s J H Mehta as on 12.02.1992 is of 72080 shares. By no
stretch of imagination, can the transactions carried out by M/s J H Mehta in the
capacity of principal be included in the transactions carried out on behalf of the
clients. There is a clear distinction between the transactions which are being carried
out by the broker in the capacity of the principal and the transactions which are
being carried out by the broker on behalf of the clients. Even in the mandatory
reportings to the Stock Exchange by the broker, the transactions are segregated
into (i) the transactions carried out in the capacity of principal and (ii) transactions
carried out on behalf of the clients. Thus, the claim of the assessee that it was using
a dummy name "CASCADE HOLDINGS /CASCADE" in respect of the various
transactions undertaken for its clients prior to validation / correction is rejected.
Moreover, no sensible person will use the name of its own related entity as a
dummy name when the said related entity also happen to be its client. Therefore,
the contention of the assessee that M/s. J.H. Mehta was using dummy name
"CASCADE HOLDINGS /CASCADE" for noting the transactions undertaken for its
clients prior to correction/validation, is rejected. 14.17 To ascertain the genuineness of the claim of the assessee that the said
transactions as per the seized documents are in respect of the other entities of the
Harshad Mehta Group, the ledger accounts of the said other entities in the books of
M/s J H Mehta were examined. From the ledger accounts, it was observed that
there is no actual payment / receipt by way of cash / cheque and there are only
adjustments by way of Journal entries. Therefore, the assessee vide order sheet
noting dated 08,10.2018 was asked to submit details of actual payments made
other than the adjustments made by way of journal entry in respect of the shares
purchased by the said other entities of the Harshad Mehta Group and details of
actual receipts other than adjustments by way of journal entry for the shares sold
by the said other entities. Moreover, the assessee was also asked to submit the
proof of delivery with distinctive numbers since it was the claim of the assessee
that the conclusion of the AO that the said transactions are forward transactions
without delivery, is not correct. However, till the passing of the appellate order, the 17 ITA No.1414/M/2019 M/s. Cascade Holdings Pvt. Ltd. desired information was not submitted. In respect of genuine share trading
transactions carried out by a client through a broker, the features which are
routinely found include features like (i) for a purchase transaction, at the end of the
settlement period, either delivery of shares is taken or the same is carried over by
doing badla (ii) For a purchase transaction which is not carried over, payment is
made by the client to the broker and delivery of shares is taken by the broker from
the Stock Exchange and which in turn is delivered to the client, (iii) for a sale
transaction, at the end of the settlement period, either delivery of shares is given or
the same is carried over by doing badla, and (iv) for a sale transaction which is not
carried over, payment is received by the client from the broker and delivery of
shares is given to the broker which in turn is delivered to the Stock Exchange.
However, these critical features of actual payments / receipts as well as delivery of
shares are found to be absent in the said transactions for which additions have
been made by the AO and for which the assessee contends that the same have
been undertaken primarily by the other entities of the Harshad Mehta Group. 14.18 In the instant case, it is noted that the AO on the basis of the notings on the
said seized documents concluded that the assessee had a certain stock position in
various scrips on different dates and since, the assessee could not provide any
details of the ultimate fate of the said stock of shares and/or proof of delivery etc.,
he presumed that the same was carried forward and the position was squared up
on or before 31.03.1992. On the other hand, the assessee in the present appellate
proceedings contends that bulk of the said stock of shares comprised of shares of
ACC, which were purchased by M/s. J.H. Mehta from certain 4 brokers of Calcutta
Stock Exchange not only for the assessee but also for the other notified entities of
Harshad Mehta Group. It is also claimed by the assessee that these shares have
been subsequently registered in the hands of the assessee and the other notified
entities of Harshad Mehta Group by the Custodian as per the order of the Hon'ble
Special Court. However, it is noted that there is no evidence available with the
assessee of proof of delivery with distinctive numbers for transfer of the said
alleged shares by the said 4 brokers of Calcutta Stock Exchange to M/s. J.H. Mehta
and thereafter to the said other notified entities of Harshad Mehta Group. It is
pertinent to mention that most of the shares subsequently registered by the
Custodian in the hands of the various entities of Harshad Mehta Group are
tainted/benami shares seized by the various investigative agencies for which even
Shri Harshad Mehta himself could not identify the owners for a substantial period
of time and even now a large number of such tainted/benami shares are lying in a
common pool created by the Custodian since, the owners have still not been
identified. It is also noted that even while informing the Custodian about the
ownership of the said tainted/benami shares, no proof of delivery was provided.
Thus, the action of the AO of presuming that the said stock of shares as per the
seized documents belong to the assessee which was carried forward and squared
up on or before 31.03.1992, cannot be faulted. 14.19 The assessee has further contended that the total quantum of forward
transactions undertaken by M/s J H Mehta on the various Stock Exchanges for all its
clients is much less than the forward transactions carried out by the assessee alone
as per the working of the AO and therefore the presumption of the AO that the said
shares were carried forward and subsequently squared up by not taking delivery, is 18 ITA No.1414/M/2019 M/s. Cascade Holdings Pvt. Ltd. not correct. In respect of this contention, it is relevant to note that other than the
floor of Stock Exchange, the trading in shares can also be carried out between
brokers in the capacity of principal to principal or client and principal, which need
not be reported to the Stock Exchange . Therefore, the total transactions of a
broker necessarily does not mean the transactions carried out on all the Stock
Exchanges. Further, it is noted that the AO has made this presumption of carry
forward and squared up only because the assessee could not furnish any details
about the ultimate fate of the said shares and no proof of delivery was submitted.
Even in the appellate proceedings, the assessee despite reminders has not
furnished details with evidences of delivery in respect of the said shares. Further, as
regards the contention of the assessee that as per the books of M/s. J.H. Mehta,
the delivery based transactions of the assessee are of only 20,850 shares of ACC as
against more than 3,00,000 shares as per the AO, it is noted that the claim of the
assessee that the said transactions were carried out by M/s. J.H. Mehta on behalf of
the other entities of the Harshad Mehta Group itself has been rejected earlier and
therefore, this contention of the assessee cannot help its cause. 14.20 The assessee contends that the AO has made a number of presumptions
which include (i) that the entire stock position was carried forward and
squared up on 31.03.1992, (ii) though there was no noting in the said seized
documents in respect of sale of the said stock position, it was presumed that the
same were sold and the rates as on 31.03.1992 were applied only because the rates
of various scrips as on 31.03.1992 were at its peak, (iii) deliberately it was
presumed that the said shares were carried forward and squared up since if it
would have been held that delivery of those shares was taken, the profits could
have been taxed only on their actual sale. On these contentions of the assessee, it
is noted that the AO had called for details of the said share transactions along with
supporting evidences of delivery to verify whether the said transactions are of the
nature of "speculative" or "non-speculative". However, this information was not
submitted despite several reminders. Even in the present appellate proceedings, no
evidences have been placed of delivery of the said shares. Therefore, the action of
the AO of presuming that the said shares were transacted on carry forward basis
and sold on 31.03.1992, cannot be faulted. 14.21 Further, the assessee contends that in Calcutta Stock Exchange, carry over
was not allowed and therefore the conclusion drawn by the AO and the resultant
additions after presuming sale on squaring up, is not correct. Moreover, the
assessee also contended that if it had actually earned such huge profits, it would
have received payments from the said 4 broker firms of Calcutta. On these
contentions, it is observed that it is not the case of the AO that the said
purchase/sale transactions in respect of the stock noted in the said seized
documents were carried out at Calcutta Stock Exchange. The notings on the said
seized documents suggested purchases at various stock exchanges and also outside
the floor of Stock Exchange. However, there were no notings on the said seized
documents related to the sale of the said stock and the assessee also could not
even provide necessary evidences in respect of the ultimate fate, proof of delivery,
etc. Thus the said contentions of the assessee are rejected. M/s. Cascade Holdings Pvt. Ltd. 14.22 The assessee further submitted that as per the order of the Hon'ble Special
Court, the stock of shares noted in the said documents have been duly registered in
the hands of the said other entities of the Harshad Mehta Group and the profits
arising on their subsequent sale have also been considered for taxation in the
hands of the said other entities. Accordingly, it was contended that making the
same addition again in the hands of the assessee will lead to double taxation. On
this contention, it is noted that solely on the basis of the information provided by
Shri Harshad Mehta about the ownership of shares, etc subsequently unearthed by
the investigating agencies and handed over to the Custodian, the Hon'ble Special
Court has passed the said order in respect of registration. However, this cannot be
treated as a certificate issued by the Custodian or the Hon'ble Special Court about
the ownership over the said shares. In any case, in absence of distinctive numbers
and proof of delivery of shares, it is not possible to show that said shares registered
in the names of the said other entities of the Harshad Mehta Group are the same as
the shares for which the said additions were made in the hands of the assessee.
This issue has also been adjudicated against the assessee by my Learned
Predecessor in the case of Harshad Mehta for AY 1992-93 in IT 59/95-96 dated
24.03.2010. The relevant portion of the said appellate order on this issue is
reproduced as under :- On this application, vide order dated 12.11.2003, the Hon'ble Special
 Court had the occasion to order that the companies shall transfer the shares
 in the favour of the Custodian and importantly, the company shall also
 transfer to the Custodian any accruals on those shares. In similar vein, vide
 its order dated 08.04.3002, the Hon'ble Special Court had the occasion to
 pass similar orders in respect of benami shares. While passing this order, the
 Hon'ble Special Court had the occasion to observe that despite repeated
 reminders, the appellant did not name the entities in whose favour, and the
 benami shares were to be transferred. The Hon'ble Special Court in this
 order, had the occasion to direct that the shares are to be dematerialized
 into the Depository Account of the Custodian. As I find, the appellant has
 not been able to give the names of the owner of these shares despite being
 given several opportunities by the Custodian. ............................. 14.23 The assessee, in the present appellate proceedings, has also submitted that
the Hon'ble ITAT in the cases of Topaz Holdings P Ltd (supra) & Pallavi Holdings P
Ltd. (supra), has held that the AO cannot presume sale of shares on 31.03.1993 and
therefore, had deleted the addition. Accordingly, it was contended that the action
of the AO of presuming that the said shares were squared up on 31.03.1992 and
thereby determining its profits to be of Rs 97.3 crores, should also be deleted. In
the instant case, it is noticed that the said documents seized had notings of the
scrip-wise position of the shares held by the assessee on various dates. The
assessee in course of the assessment proceedings was specifically asked by the AO
to furnish the necessary details including the ultimate fate of the said shares along
with evidences of delivery, etc. In the show cause notice issued, the assessee was
specifically informed that on failure to furnish the requisite information along with
evidences, it will be presumed that the said shares have been carried forward and
squared up on 31.03.1992. However, there was no compliance by the assessee.
Even in the present appellate proceedings, the assessee has neither furnished the
requisite details of the ultimate fate of the said shares nor the proof of delivery of
shares with details of distinctive numbers. Therefore, the action of the AO of
presuming that the said shares were sold on 31.03,1992, cannot be faulted.
Further, this issue has also been adjudicated by my Ld predecessor in the case of
Harshad Mehta for AY 1992-93 in order dated 24.03.2010 in IT. 59/95-96 and the
said case laws relied upon by the assessee have been distinguished. The relevant
portion of the order on this issue is reproduced as under:- 19. The Ld. A.R. submitted before us that the addition made by
the AO as well as its subsequent confirmation by Ld. CIT(A) even
in the second round of litigation is factually and legally
incorrect. The Ld. A.R. submitted that admittedly the some
loose sheets were found and seized at the time of search action
which showed rough notings and contained some references to 22 ITA No.1414/M/2019 M/s. Cascade Holdings Pvt. Ltd. dates like 27.1.1992, 12.02.1992, 18.02.1992 & 27.02.1992,
however, no other evidence was found during the course of
search which either confirms or corroborates any of these rough
notings or the purchase of shares by the assessee. The Ld. A.R.
submitted that the said rough sheets seized from the office of
brokerage firm M/s. J.H. Mehta can not be accepted to be
outstanding shares position of the assessee and thus it can not
be presumed that shares were purchased by the assessee and
assessee was holding these shares of various companies. The
Ld. A.R. submitted that such sheets were regularly prepared by
the brokerage firms before undertaking and accounting for the
transactions and no presumptions can be made on the basis of
such rough sheets as made by the AO. Since the broker, M/s.
J.H. Mehta alongwith other family brokerage firms, were
conducting the business operations from various locations like
Bombay, Calcutta, Delhi and Madras etc. on all leading stock
exchanges and from several offices in Bombay itself, such
multiple locations were likely to create gaps in the flow of
information relating to transactions undertaken or required to
be undertaken in the market by the broker at the relevant point
of time and their subsequent allocation amongst its several
clients. In order to properly collate the information pertaining to
the transactions, such 'Daily Position' rough sheets were
prepared by the staff of the broker M/s J H Mehta to keep
notings of the transactions as undertaken or required to be
undertaken by the broker daily. This is evident from the fact
that the sheet shows the notings which are unsystematic in
nature, written in a very rough and haphazard manner and also
does not bear any reference to the figures written nor signed by 23 ITA No.1414/M/2019 M/s. Cascade Holdings Pvt. Ltd. any employee or the broker. The ld AR admitted that the noting
'Cascade' ' is also written without any correlation to any figure
and that it cannot be deciphered whether the figures written
across the said noting 'Cascade' are relevant or the figures
written below. Moreover, the statement of position as on
24.01.1992 in the name of 'Cascade" also does not bear any
reference to the Contract Notes and the details reflected in the
column 'Contract No.' consists of dummy nos. [Ref, last Column
of seized page enclosed at Page 21-35 of PB]. This proves that
the notings are rough notings and jottings before the issue of
Contract Notes in favour of actual clients and the same cannot
be considered to be final, authenticated and reliable record of
any actual and concluded transactions of purchase and sale of
shares. Such notings on the sheets cannot be considered to be
actual and final position in shares and further that the same is
of the appellant. It is submitted that the brokerage firms,
including M/s. J. H Mehta, follow a practice of issuing, the
Contract Notes only after ascertaining all the facts of the orders
and execution of transactions based on the final and correct
transactions carried out for various clients at numerous Stock
Exchanges. It is submitted that the said "modus operandi" dated 25,01,1995 copy of which is filed at Page no. 47-54 of PB,
the appellant was also informed that enquiries were conducted
by the AC, with other brokers pertaining to the share
transactions of the assessee. The details of the share
transactions are also reflected in the said notice issued to the
appellant. The Annexure attached to the said notice gives
complete details of the transactions carried out by the appellant
in the shares of several companies through various brokers. The
extensive enquiries conducted by the AO clearly prove that all
efforts were made by him to ascertain complete details of
purchase and sale of shares made by the appellant during the
year. In spite of these extensive inquiries, no corroboration to
the seized documents has been brought on record by the AO. It
may be important to note that no addition has been made in
respect of information obtained from the enquiries caused with
the several brokers thereby establishing the fact that all the
transactions pertaining to the assessee were correctly and
properly recorded by the assessee and that none of the
information reflected any unexplained investments in the hands
of the appellant. 19.6. The ld AR further submits that the accounts of the
assessee were duly audited which proves that all the
transactions have been taken into account while finalising the
accounts and getting them audited. All the transactions
undertaken by the assessee on its own account have been duly
recorded in the audited books and the profit has been
determined therefrom. The appellant refers to and relies upon
the following ledger accounts which reflect and record all the
transactions undertaken by the appellant: 20. The Ld. D.R., on the other hand, relied heavily on the
orders of authorities below and submits that the addition made
by the AO is based upon the materials/papers seized during the
course of search from the premises of share brokerage firm M/s. M/s. Cascade Holdings Pvt. Ltd. J.H. Mehta. The said papers contain the outstanding share
position and have the assessee's name mentioned in front of
various scrips. The Ld. D.R. submits that the assessee has been
given various opportunities to explain the said entries, however,
assessee, despite several opportunities, fails to furnish any
evidences to negate the notings in the said documents. The Ld.
D.R. submits that since the additions were made on the basis of
incriminating documents seized during the course of search and
there was no way than to presume that assessee might have
squared off these position at the year end. The Ld. D.R.,
therefore, prayed before the Bench that the order of Ld. CIT(A)
may kindly be confirmed. 21. We have heard the rival submissions of both the parties
and perused the material on record. The undisputed facts are
that certain papers were found during the course of search from
the premises of brokerage firm M/s. J.H. Mehta which contains
the notings reflecting market position in the name of the
assessee on 24.01.1992. Accordingly , the AO calculated the
profit on the transactions of shares reflected in these papers and
made an addition of Rs.1,92,05,630/-. Similarly, some daily
position sheets were found and seized from the premises of M/s.
J.H. Mehta which contained various dates like 24.01.1992,
12.02.1992, 18.02.1992 & 27.02.1992 and these daily position
sheets contained several notings of various scrips against the
name of the assessee. The AO presumed on the basis of said
daily position sheets that assessee held the shares on these
respective dates and in absence of any evidences furnished by
the assessee , the AO came to conclusion that assessee might
have squared off the position by the year end and accordingly 33 ITA No.1414/M/2019 M/s. Cascade Holdings Pvt. Ltd. calculated the profit which aggregated to Rs.97,29,79,373/-
details whereof has been given hereinabove. The assessee's
main contention is that apart from these daily position sheets
which contained the rough notings and entries, no incriminating
evidences have been found during the course of search which
confirmed or corroborated the purchase and sale of shares by
the assessee. Moreover, these sheets were recovered from the
office of share brokerage firm M/s. J.H. Mehta and can not be
taken as outstanding position of holding of the assessee of
various scrips and shares. We note that the brokerage firm
M/s. J.H. Mehta along with others connected brokerage entities
were conducting various operations from various locations like
Bombay, Kolkata, Delhi and Madras on all stock exchanges and
also operating from several offices, in such a scenario the loose
sheets which contained the rough notings as to the some shares
against the name of the assessee can not be held to be the
outstanding position of the shares in the hands of the assessee
when there is no corroborating or substantive evidences
brought on record by the AO despite having enquired from
various brokers about the transactions of the assessee. We have
examined the sheets and found that in some cases the name of
the assessee appeared without any correlation to the figure. We
find that these sheets are not signed by any employee of the
brokerage firm and therefore in absence of any corroborative
evidences, the addition made on the basis of these sheets can
not be sustained. These are dumb documents consisting of
rough notings about the trading transactions carried out or to
be carried out by the broker. We also find merit in the
arguments of the Ld. A.R. that search was conducted on the 34 ITA No.1414/M/2019 M/s. Cascade Holdings Pvt. Ltd. assessee which is part of Harshad Mehta Group on 28.02.1992
and how it could be possible that the assessee has sold the
shares between February 1992 and March 1992 of such
magnitude. We also note that despite seized material containing
transactions carried out by share brokerage firm M/s. J.H.
Mehta, no statement was recorded of any employee or official of
M/s. J.H. Mehta at the time of search or during the course of
assessment proceedings and therefore the AO has not taken any
steps to bring on record any material to corroborate the rough
bottings on these sheets and merely proceeded on the basis of
surmises and conjuncture. The case of the assessee is also
squarely covered by the decision of a related company in the
case of Topaz Holding Company Pvt. Ltd. vs. DCIT in ITA
No.2828/M/2001 A.Y. 1992-93 and DCIT vs. M/s. Pallavi
Holdings Pvt. Ltd. in ITA No.1912/M/2000 wherein the co-
ordinate bench of the Tribunal had held that income can not be
determined by presuming the sale of shares without no
evidences have been found to establish that shares were sold by
the appellant. The DR could not bring any decision to the
contrary. In view of the above facts and circumstances and the ratio laid down in the two decisions of the co-ordinate bench of
the Tribunal, we are not in agreement with the conclusion
drawn by the Ld. CIT(A) on this issue. Accordingly, we set aside
the order of Ld. CIT(A) and direct the AO to delete the addition of
Rs.1,92,05,630/- and Rs.97,29,79,373/- made on the basis of
notings in the papers/ daily position sheets. The ground No.5 is
allowed. 22. The issue raised in ground No.6 is against the confirmation
of addition of Rs.33,60,000/- by Ld. CIT(A) as made by the AO 35 ITA No.1414/M/2019 M/s. Cascade Holdings Pvt. Ltd. on account proportionate share pertaining to the assessee out of
disclosure made by Shri Harshad S. Mehta of Rs.100 crores for
the entire Harshad Mehta Group. 23. The facts in brief are that after this search and seizure
action on Harshad Mehta Group, Mr Harshad Mehta made a
composite disclosure of Rs.100 crores in the hands of various
group entities, the break up whereof was not submitted before
the AO. The AO calculated the proportionate share of the
assessee in the consolidated disclosure of Rs.100 crores at
Rs.33,60,000/- and added the same to the income of the
assessee. 24. In the first round of litigation, the Ld. CIT(A) confirmed the
addition on the ground that books of accounts were not
produced before the AO. The Ld. CIT(A) noted that now the
books of accounts have been allowed as additional evidence by
the Tribunal, therefore addition sustained by the Ld. CIT(A) in
the first round is not applicable. The Ld. CIT(A) observed that in
the first round in the case of Shri Ashwin S. Mehta for A.Y.
1992-93 has adjudicated the issue in favour of the assessee by
following his own decision in the case of Smt. Deepika A. Mehta
for A.Y. 1991-92. The Ld. CIT(A) in the second round deleted the
addition by following the decision in the case of Smt. Deepika A.
Mehta for A.Y. 1991-92 and Shri Ashwin S. Mehta for A.Y. 1992-
93, however, put a rider that in the eventuality of addition made
on the basis of incriminating seized material are finally deleted
then the addition made of Rs.33,60,000/- in the hands of the
assessee on the basis of consolidated disclosure of Rs.100
crores for the entire Harshad Mehta Group would survive. The 36 ITA No.1414/M/2019 M/s. Cascade Holdings Pvt. Ltd. Ld. CIT(A) also held that in case the addition made on the basis
of incriminating material is of lesser amount of Rs.33,60,000/-
then the balance addition would survive. 25. The Ld. A.R. submits before the Bench that the
observations of Ld. CIT(A) on this ground are contrary to facts
on record. The Ld. A.R. submits that the disclosure letter dated
02.06.1992 before DDIT (Inv.) the assessee has made a
disclosure of Rs.100 crores because Shri Harshad Mehta was
not in a position to determine the exact income earned from
dividend, share trading, profit, capital gain etc. The Ld. A.R.
submits that the said disclosure was made in absence of
complete books of accounts and was purely passed on
estimation basis but now the income has been assessed on the
basis of entries in the books of accounts and there is no
undisclosed income in the hands of the assessee as the income
has been assessed on the basis of bank statements and the
books of accounts. The Ld. A.R. submitted that once the income
of the assessee has been assessed on the basis of accounting
records, the estimate made in the disclosure can not be
separately added in the hands of the assessee. In defence of his
arguments, the Ld. A.R. relied on the decision of co-ordinate
bench of the Tribunal in the case of M/s. Orion Travels Pvt. Ltd.
vs. ACIT ITA No.939/M/2019 A.Y. 1991-92 a related group
entity wherein the identical addition based on the declaration
was deleted by the Tribunal. The Ld. A.R. prayed before the
Bench that following the said decision of the co-ordinate bench
of the Tribunal, the addition may kindly be deleted. M/s. Cascade Holdings Pvt. Ltd. 26. We have heard the rival submissions of both the parties
and perused the material on record. The undisputed facts are
that Shri Harshad Mehta made a composite disclosure of Rs.100
crores for the entire group consequent to search action. We note
that the breakup of the said disclosure was not available before
the AO and he proportionately calculated the amount relating to
the assessee at Rs.33,60,000/-. Now we note that the co-
ordinate bench of the Tribunal in the first round of litigation has
admitted the books of accounts as an additional evidence and
restored the matter back to the file of the Ld. CIT(A) to decide the
issues on the basis of books of accounts. We find merit in the
contentions and arguments of the Ld. A.R. that the disclosure
was made at a stage when the complete books of accounts were
not available and it was not possible for the group to determine
its correct income from share trading profit, dividend and capital
gain etc. and the disclosure was purely on estimation basis. But
now since the books of accounts are before the Revenue
Authorities and contains all the information qua the income of
the assessee by way of profit on share trading, dividend and
capital gain etc and the actual income of the assessee has been
assessed by the Revenue Authorities based on the bank
statements and other accounting records, therefore the income
as offered by way of composite disclosure by Shri Harshad
Mehta can not be added to the income of the assessee. The case
of the assessee also is squarely covered by the decision of the co-
ordinate bench of the Tribunal in the related concern case of
M/s. Orion Travels Pvt. Ltd. vs. ACIT (supra) wherein identical
issue has been decided in favour of the assessee. We, therefore,
respectfully, following the decision of the co-ordinate bench of 38 ITA No.1414/M/2019 M/s. Cascade Holdings Pvt. Ltd. the Tribunal, set aside the finding of the Ld. CIT(A) and direct
the AO to delete the addition. The ground no. 6 is allowed. 27. The issue raised in ground No.7 is against the confirmation
of disallowance of Rs.1,67,014/- by Ld. CIT(A) as made by the
AO towards the various expenses provided by the assessee in
respect of services not rendered till the year end. 28. The facts in brief are that the AO observed that assessee
has claimed Rs.3,49,042/- in the profit and loss account which
includes expenses in the nature of provisions and also expenses
which are not supported by any documentary evidences.
Therefore, AO disallowed a sum of Rs.1,67,014/- in respect of
various items of expenses which was upheld by the Ld. CIT(A) in
the first round of litigation.Again the AO disallowed the same
amount added to the income of the assessee. 29. The Ld. CIT(A) in the second round again dismissed the
appeal of the assessee on this issue by observing and holding as
under: 30. The Ld. A.R. submits before the Bench that the expenses
disallowed by the AO include bonus of Rs.57,498/-, staff welfare
expenses of Rs.24,116/-, ex-gratia payment of Rs.6000, audit
fees of Rs.30,000/-, professional fees of Rs.35,000/- and 39 ITA No.1414/M/2019 M/s. Cascade Holdings Pvt. Ltd. preliminary expenses of Rs.14,400/-. The Ld. A.R. submits that
most of these expenses are to be mandatorily incurred and have
to be provided at the year end. The Ld. A.R. submitted that
audit fee has to be provided at the year end. Similarly, the
professional fee for the two chartered accountants and advocates
have also to be provided who have provided their services during
the year. Similarly, the assessee has provided a bonus and ex-
gratia payment as the same was payable to the employees
relating to F.Y. 1991-92. The Ld. A.R. submitted that the
preliminary expenses to the extent not allowable during the year
were added back to the income of the assessee in the
computation of income itself suo motto. The Ld. A.R., therefore,
prayed that considering all these facts the disallowance may
kindly be deleted. 31. The Ld. D.R., on the other hand, relied heavily on the order
of authorities below by submitting that books of accounts were
not available in the first round of litigation and only compiled
later and furnished before the tribunal for the first time and
therefore it would be unfair on the part of the assessee to claim
these expenses when there are no evidences to that effect that
these expenses were actually incurred in relation to the current
financial year. The ld DR prayed that the order of ld CIT(A)
deserved to be affirmed. 32. Having heard the rival submissions and perusing the
material on record, we observe that the expenses of audit fees,
professional fees, staff welfare have to be allowed on the basis of
services availed by the assessee during the year whereas the
admissibility of bonus and ex-gratia payment depends on the 40 ITA No.1414/M/2019 M/s. Cascade Holdings Pvt. Ltd. date of payment by the assessee before the due date of filing the
return. Therefore, we are not in agreement with the conclusion
drawn by the Ld. CIT(A) that disallowance of Rs.1,67,014/- is
not allowable. In our considered view, the expenses incurred by
the assessee on account of staff welfare expenses of Rs.24,116/,
audit fee of Rs.30,000/-, professional fee of Rs.35,000/- and
preliminary expenses as claimed by the assessee are allowable
expenses and AO is directed to allow the same. The remaining
expenses in respect of bonus and ex-gratia need verification at
the level of the AO and accordingly restored to the file of the AO
with the direction verify the date of payment of bonus and ex-
gratia payment and in case they are paid before due date of
filing the return, needless to say that same are to be allowed.
Otherwise the same may be allowed on payment basis in the
subsequent years. The ground is partly allowed for statistical
purposes. 33. Vide ground No.8 the assessee has challenged the
confirmation of short term capital loss by Ld. CIT(A) on sale of
9% of IRFC bonds amounting to Rs.48,93,466/- by invoking section 94(4) of the Act. 34. The facts in brief are that the assessee received tax free
interest income of Rs.45 lakhs on 9% of IRFC bonds purchased
on 26.09.1991 for Rs.10,06,39,041/-. These bonds were sold on
11.10.1991 for a consideration of Rs.9,57,46,575/- resulting
into a short term capital loss of Rs.48,93,466/-. The AO
invoked the provision of section 94(4) and disallowed the short
term capital loss of Rs.48,93,466/- claimed by the assessee. In
the first round of litigation, the Ld. CIT(A) confirmed the addition 41 ITA No.1414/M/2019 M/s. Cascade Holdings Pvt. Ltd. by holding that provisions of section 94(4) of the Act are
applicable to the assessee as assessee is engaged in the
business of trading and money market and shares and therefore
the assessee could not be treated as investment company. It
was also held that even if the assessee has assumed to be an
investment company, it will be entitled to short term capital loss
of Rs.39,346/- which is the difference between the loss resulting
from sale of 9% of IRFC bonds and amount of interest received
on such bonds. 35. In the second round also, the Ld. CIT(A) affirmed the order
of AO by dismissing the ground raised by the assessee by
holding that the short term capital loss of Rs.48,93,466/- can
not be allowed. 36. The Ld. A.R. submitted before the Bench that the said
short term capital loss was disallowed on the ground that bonds
were purchased prior to the record date and after receiving tax
free interest by the assessee, the same were sold at a loss
resulting into earning of exempt income and therefore in terms
of section 94(4) of the Act, the loss to the extent of exempt
income was not allowable as deduction. The Ld. A.R. submits
that the Ld. CIT(A) has not construed the provisions of section
94(4) in correct perspective. The Ld. A.R. submits that the
provisions of section 94(4) of the Act are applicable in case of
transactions carried out under the head "Business income".
Since the transactions in question were on capital account the
provisions of section 94(4) are not applicable. The Ld. A.R.
submits that in any case provisions of section 94(4) of the Act
can not be invoked unless and until in terms of section 94(4) of 42 ITA No.1414/M/2019 M/s. Cascade Holdings Pvt. Ltd. the Act the relevant income is brought to tax in the hands of
counter party. In other words unless the interest income arising
from securities deemed to be income of the owner, transferring
the security to the appellant in terms of section 94(1) of the Act
,loss can not be disallowed in the hands of the appellant. In
defence of his argument, the Ld. A.R. relied on the decision of
the co-ordinate bench of the Tribunal in the case of related
entity M/s. Growmore Leasing and Investment Ltd. vs. DCIT ITA
No.2192/M/2015 A.Y. 1992-93 wherein the Hon'ble Tribunal
vide its order dated 17.11.2017 has held that disallowance can
not be made unless the effect of provisions of section 94(4) of the
Act is given in the hands of Shri Harshad Mehta for A.Y. 1992- 93. The Ld. A.R., therefore, prayed that since no disallowance
has been made in the case of Harshad S. Mehta, hence the pre-
requisites of section 94(4) has not been satisfied and therefore
prayed that disallowance made by the AO may kindly be deleted
by setting aside the order of Ld. CIT(A). 37. The Ld. D.R., on the other hand, relied on the order of the
AO and Ld. CIT(A). 38. We have heard the rival submissions of both the parties
and perused the material on record. The short issue involved in
the present ground is against the confirmation of disallowance
by Ld. CIT(A) of Rs.48,93,466/- which has resulted from sale of
9% of IRFC bonds. The AO has invoked provisions of section
94(4) of the Act on the ground that the assessee has purchased
the bonds before the record date and after receiving the tax free
interest of Rs.45 lakhs, these investments were sold after the
record date resulting into short term capital loss of 43 ITA No.1414/M/2019 M/s. Cascade Holdings Pvt. Ltd. Rs.48,93,466/-. The primary contentions of the Ld. A.R. of the
assessee is that the provisions of section 94(4) of the Act can not
be invoked unless and until the relevant income is brought to
tax in the hands of the counter party under section 94(4) of the
Act meaning thereby that unless the interest arising and
accruing from the security is deemed to be the income of the
owner who is Shri Harshad S. Mehta in the present case who
transferred the securities to the assessee in terms of section
94(1) of the Act, the loss can not be disallowed in the hands of
the assessee. We find that the issue is squarely covered by the
decision of co-ordinate bench of the Tribunal in the case of
related entities M/s. Growmore Leasing & Investment Ltd.
(supra) wherein the co-ordinate bench of the Tribunal has
decided the issue in favour of the assessee by holding as under: (1) Where the owner of any securities (in this sub- section and in subsection
 (2) referred to as" the owner") sells or transfers those securities, and buys
 back or reacquires the securities, then, if the result of the transaction is that
 any interest becoming payable in respect of the securities is receivable
 otherwise than by the owner, the interest payable as aforesaid shall,
 whether it would or would not have been chargeable to income- tax apart
 from the provisions of this sub- section, be deemed, for all the purposes of
 this Act, to be the income of the owner and not to be the income of any
 other person. Explanation.- The references in this subsection to buying back or reacquiring
 the securities shall be deemed to include references to buying or acquiring
 similar securities, so however, that where similar securities are bought or 44 ITA No.1414/M/2019 M/s. Cascade Holdings Pvt. Ltd. acquired, the owner shall be under no greater liability to income- tax than
 he would have been under if the original securities had been bought back or
 reacquired. (2) ----------------------------------- (3) ----------------------------------- (4) Where any person carrying on a business which consists wholly or partly
 in dealing in securities, buys or acquires any securities and sells back or
 retransfers the securities, then, if the result of the transaction is that
 interest becoming payable in respect of the securities is receivable by him
 but is not deemed to be his income by reason of the provisions contained in
 sub- section (1), no account shall be taken of the transaction in computing
 for any of the purposes of this Act the profits arising from or loss sustained
 in the business. (5)------------------------------------------- 7. From the above provision, it is clear that where the honour of any securities sales
or transfers those securities and buys back or reacquire the securities, then, if the
result of the transaction is that any interest becoming payable in respect of
securities is receivable otherwise then by the owner, the interest payable thereof
shall be deemed to be the income of the owner for the purposes of chargeable to
income tax under this Act. It means that, in the present case before us, the IRFC
bonds was owned by Harshad S Mehta and assessee purchase the same for a total
consideration of Rs.50,31,95,205/- on 26-09-1991 and sells the same back to
Harshad S Mehta within a short period of 15 days on 11-10-1991 for a total
consideration of Rs. 47,87,32,877/-. In this process the assessee claimed loss of Rs.
2,44,62,328/- and also received tax free interest from these IRFC bonds at Rs.
1,84,50,000/-. By virtue of sub section (1) of section 94 of the Act, this interest will
be income of Harshad S Mehta and not of the assessee. Similarly, in respect to loss
sustained on account of this transaction has been clarified by sub section of section
94 of the Act, which states that any person carrying on a business consists wholly or
partly in dealing in securities, buys or acquires any securities and sell back or re-
transfer the securities then, if the result of the transaction is that, interest become
payable in respect of securities is receivable by him but is not deemed to be his
income in view of the provisions of sub section (1). Further, no account shall be
taken of the transaction in computing for any of the purposes of this act, the profit
arises from or loss sustained in the business. 7. We are of the view that the provisions of section 94(4) can be invoked only in
case the provision of section 94(1) was applicable to the counter party. The loss on
sale of securities can be disallowed only if the assessee in the course of business,
bought and sold any securities and as a result of the transaction, interest was
receivable by him which was not deemed to be his income by reason of Sec. 94(1) of the Act. The provisions of Sec. 94(4) would come into operation only if:- M/s. Cascade Holdings Pvt. Ltd. (iii) The result of the transaction is that interest becoming payable in respect
 of the securities is receivable by him; and (iv) Such interest is not deemed to be his income by reason of the provisions
 contained in sub-section (1)

 According to us, it is a pre-requisite that the provisions of Sec.94(1) of the Act ought
 to be applied in the case of the actual owner of the securities from whom the same
 were bought by the assessee. However, the AO had failed to examine as to whether
 the provisions of Sec.94(1) of the Act had been applied in the case of the party from
 whom the shares in question were purchased and to whom the same were sold by
 the assessee. The bonds in question were purchased and re-sold to Harshad S.
 Mehta, but the provisions of Sec.94(1) of the Act had not been invoked in the said
 case, and, therefore, the provisions of Sec.94(4) of the Act could not be invoked in
 the case of the assessee. Going by the intent, we are of the view that the provisions
 of Sec.94(4) of the Act had been introduced with a view to levy tax on the interest
 income, which was being sought to be avoided by certain persons by carrying on
 transactions in shares and securities. The intention of the Legislature was to tax the
 interest income in the right hands, which had been avoided by transferring the
 shares and then repurchasing the some after the interest was received by the other
 persons. Therefore, it was necessary for the AO to prove that the assessee had
 attempted to avoid payment of tax. Since the interest income on 9% IREC Bonds
 was exempt from tax, there was no question of the assessee or Harshad S. Mehta
 adopting any such methods to avoid tax on the income. Further, we are of the view
 that the provisions of Sec.94(4) of the Act would apply only in cases where the
 assessee had carried on the transactions of purchase and sale of securities during
 the course of business and since the purchase and sale of the bonds in question
 was not a business activity, the provisions of Sec.94(4) of the Act was not applicable
 to the transaction. Accordingly, We direct the AO to allow the claim of set off of
 loss of Rs.2,44,62,328/- suffered from 9% IRFC Bonds, against profit from sale of
 shares." 39. We, therefore, respectfully following the decision of the co-
ordinate bench of the Tribunal set aside the order of Ld. CIT(A)
and direct the AO to allow the set off of loss of Rs.48,93,466/-
to the assessee as suffered by it from 9% of IRFC bonds against
the profit on sale of shares. The ground no. 8 is allowed. 40. In the ground No.9, the assessee has challenged the levy of
interest under section 234A , 234B & 234C of the Act. 41. After hearing both the parties and perusing the relevant
provisions of the Act and also the various decisions of the co-
ordinate benches of the Tribunal, we hold that interest charged 46 ITA No.1414/M/2019 M/s. Cascade Holdings Pvt. Ltd. under section 234A, 234B & 234C is inevitable and is leviable in
any case but same needs to be recomputed by the AO in terms
of the decision of the co-ordinate bench of the Tribunal in the
case of related entities M/s. Growmore Research and Assets
Management Ltd. ITA No.1807 & 2192/M/2015 A.Y. 1992-93.
The operative part whereof is reproduced as under: On this aspect, pleas of the assessee are two fold. First, the plea is to
 the effect that the provisions of section 234A, 234B and 234C are not
 applicable to notified entity. This aspect of the matter is required to
 be held against the assessee following the judgment of the Hon'ble
 Bombay High Court in the case of Divine Holdings Pvt. Ltd( ITA
 No.3334 of 2010 dated 7/3/2012), as decided by our Co-ordinate
 Bench in the case Eminent Holdings Pvt. Ltd. in ITA
 NO.2139/Mum/2013 dated 18/6/2014, which also was a case of
 notified entity under the Special Court (Trial of Offences relating to
 transactions in Securities) Act, 1992. At the time of hearing this
 aspect of the matter was fairly conceded by the Ld. Representative
 of the assessee. 6.1 The second plea of the assessee is with regard to
 the quantum of interest chargeable under section 234A , 234B & 234C of the Act which is to the effect that the interest should be
 charged after considering the amount of tax deductible at source on
 the income assessed. Similar plea of the assessee was upheld by our
 Co-ordinate Bench in the case of Eminent Holdings Pvt. Ltd. (supra).
 Following the same, we deem it fit and proper to restore the matter
 back to the file of AO who shall recompute the interest chargeable
 under section 234A , 234B & 234C of the Act after considering the
 amount of tax deductible at source on the income assessed.
 Needless to mention, the AO shall allow the assessee a reasonable
 opportunity of being heard and thereafter, recompute the interest 47 ITA No.1414/M/2019 M/s. Cascade Holdings Pvt. Ltd. chargeable under section 234A , 234B & 234C of the Act, as per law.
 Thus, on this aspect, the assessee partly succeeds." 5. Respectfully following the decision of the Co-ordinate Bench of the
 Tribunal in assessee's own case, we restore the issue to the file of the AO
 with a direction to recompute the interest u/s 234A, 234B and 234C after
 taking into account the tax deductible on total income of the assessee by
 affording fair and reasonable opportunity of being heard to the assessee." 25. In view of the above, we direct the AO to recompute the interest under section
 234A , 234B , 234C and 220 of the Act as held by Tribunal in the case of Harshad S
 Mehta (supra). This issue of assessee's appeal is allowed for statistical purposes." 42. Since the facts of the instant issue before us is identical
vis-à-vis the coordinate bench decision supra, we accordingly,
direct the AO to recompute the interest in terms of the above
decision after taking into account the amount of tax deductible
at source on the assessed income. Ground is allowed for
statistical purposes. 43. The assessee has also raised additional grounds which
have been admitted by us challenging therein rejection of
audited books of accounts of the assessee. Since we have
decided the other issues in the foregoing paras in favour of the
assessee and against the Revenue, therefore this ground
becomes academic. 44. The next issue raised by the assessee in the additional
ground is in respect of and against the rejection of claim of
depreciation of Rs.4,72,678/- on various assets acquired and
used for the purpose of business of the assessee during the year. 45. The Ld. A.R. submitted before the Bench that there is no
doubt as to business activities being carried on by the assessee
during the year under consideration and AO has neither
doubted the purchase of the assets nor use thereof in the 48 ITA No.1414/M/2019 M/s. Cascade Holdings Pvt. Ltd. business of the assessee. The ld AR submits that, therefore, the
depreciation on these assets may kindly be allowed. The
assessee has also filed a working of depreciation at page No.55 &
56 of the paper book and submits that Rs.4,72,678/- may
kindly be allowed against the business income of the assessee. 46. The Ld. D.R., on the other hand, strongly opposed the
prayer of the Ld. A.R. by submitting that the issue was never
raised before the Ld. CIT(A) in the first round of litigation and
also in the second round of litigation and therefore should not
be entertained at all. 47. We have examined the facts of the case including the
statement of computation of depreciation filed by the Ld. A.R. at
page No.55 & 56. In our opinion, since the carrying on of
business by the assessee and use of these assets for the
purpose of business of the assessee are undisputed, therefore
the assessee is entitled to claim depreciation on these assets in
terms of the explanation 5 to section 32 of the Act. As brought
to our notice that this issue has not been examined by the AO,
therefore, we are restoring this issue for the limited purpose to
the file of the AO to examine and verify the same and allow
accordingly. The ground is allowed for statistical purposes. 48. In the result, the appeal of the assessee is allowed for
statistical purposes. Order pronounced in the open court on 09.04.2021.