1. Present petition has been filed praying for the grant of

anticipatory bail to the petitioner in case bearing FIR No.11, dated

20.08.2025, under Sections 318(4) and 61(2) of BNS, 2023, registered at

Police Station Nodal Cyber Crime, District Panchkula. 2. Succinctly the facts of the case are that FIR in the present

case was got registered on receipt of the information from the Cyber

Intelligence Team, Tamil Nadu. It was informed that some account

holders from the State of Haryana were transferring funds from their

Kotak Mahindra Bank accounts to the suspected bank account in Yes

Bank. On the analysis of their bank statements, it was found that the

pattern seems to be a commonly observed in Investment Scams Victim

Behaviour. On the basis of the information, it was found that account No.

71561900002216 in Yes Bank was registered as a current account in the

name of Bhagwati Trading Company, Chandikotala, Ward No.18,

 1 of 7 ::: Downloaded on - 09-11-2025 06:16:22 ::: CRM-M No.57018 of 2025 -2- Panchkula, Haryana. The proprietor of the company was found to be

Himanshu, son of Ajaypal. In that account, a transaction of crores of

rupees was found, which was highly suspicious. On registration of the

FIR, the investigation commenced. During the investigation, complicity

of the petitioner had surfaced and thus, he was arrayed as an accused in

the present case. Apprehending his arrest, the petitioner approached the

Court of learned Additional Sessions Judge, Panchkula praying for the

grant of anticipatory bail. However, after hearing both the sides and

finding no merit in the same, the learned Additional Sessions Judge,

Panchkula declined the bail application filed by the petitioner vide order

dated 16.09.2025. Hence, being aggrieved, the petitioner is before this

Court by way of filing the present petition praying for the grant of

anticipatory bail. 3. Learned counsel for the petitioner has submitted that the

petitioner has been falsely and frivolously implicated in the present case.

He has submitted that neither the petitioner is named in the FIR nor there

is any evidence of his complicity in the alleged offence. He has submitted

that the petitioner is a mechanic by profession. He has submitted that the

petitioner was introduced by his uncle, namely, Sumit Kumar with one

Himanshu, who was seeking the employment. He has submitted that the

petitioner had no knowledge about the nature of business conducted by

those individuals and he simply introduced Himanshu with one Happy.

He has submitted that thereafter, the co-accused, namely, Happy

approached him to provide assistance in finding and renting an office for

his business. He has submitted that the petitioner has been arrayed as an

 2 of 7 ::: Downloaded on - 09-11-2025 06:16:23 ::: CRM-M No.57018 of 2025 -3- accused on the basis of disclosure statement of co-accused on the

allegation that his mobile number has been used to make the call,

however, there is no independent witness to prove the same. He has

submitted that the petitioner has been implicated in the present case

without there being any evidence against him. He has thus submitted that

keeping in view the facts and circumstances of the case, the petitioner

deserves to be granted anticipatory bail. 4. Notice of motion. 5. Mr. Tanuj Sharma, AAG, Haryana, appears and accepts

notice on behalf of the respondent-State. He, however, has opposed the

submissions made by learned counsel for the petitioner. He has submitted

that complicity of the petitioner has been prima facie established during

the investigation conducted so far. He has submitted that during the

investigation conducted so far, it has been found that the account number

bearing 071561900002216 was opened in the name of M/s Bhagwati

Traders and transactions of Rs.3,79,82,543/- were found in the account

from 03.05.2025 to 16.07.2025. He has submitted that there are 23

different complaints received regarding this account from different states.

He has submitted that the proprietor of the said account was found to be

the co-accused, namely, Himanshu and he was arrested on 21.07.2025

and it is during his interrogation, complicity of the petitioner has been

surfaced. He has submitted that the shop, which was opened in

Chandikotla in the name of M/s Bhagwati Traders and Shyam Traders

Company was taken on rent by Mohit, i.e. the petitioner. He has thus

submitted that the petitioner is the master mind, who in connivance with

 3 of 7 ::: Downloaded on - 09-11-2025 06:16:23 ::: CRM-M No.57018 of 2025 -4- the co-accused, managed to get five fake accounts, in which different

money transactions have been made, by committing cyber fraud to the

tune of Rs.3,79,82,543/-. He has submitted that the case is under

investigation and thus, no case for the grant of anticipatory bail to the

petitioner is made out and the present petition deserves to be dismissed. 6. The Court has heard learned counsel for the parties and

perused the record with their able assistance. 7. It has been transpired that complicity of the petitioner has

been prima facie established. The petitioner is found to be the master

mind of the whole offence. Needless to say that such like offences are on

rise. 8. For the consideration of anticipatory bail, the statutory

parameters are given under Section 482 (1) & (2) BNSS which reads as

under:- (iii) a condition that the person shall not leave India without the
 previous permission of the Court; (iv) such other condition as may be imposed under sub-section (3) of
 section 480, as if the bail were granted under that section." 9. As per the law settled by the Hon'ble Supreme Court, in Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia Vs. State of Punjab , AIR 1980 SC 1632, while

granting anticipatory bail, the Court is to maintain a balance between the

individual liberty and the interest of society. However, the interest of the

society would always prevail upon the right of personal liberty. The

relevant part of the judgment is as follows:- are some of the considerations which the court has to keep
 in mind while deciding an application for anticipatory
 bail. The relevance of these considerations was pointed
 out in State v. Captain Jagjit Singh (1962) 3 SCR 622,
 which, though, was a case under the old Section 498
 which corresponds to the present Section 439 of the Code.
 It is of paramount consideration to remember that the
 freedom of the individual is as necessary for the survival
 of the society as it is for the egoistic purposes of the
 individual. A person seeking anticipatory bail is still a free
 man entitled to the presumption of innocence. He is
 willing to submit to restraints on his freedom, by the
 acceptance of conditions which the court may think fit to
 impose, in consideration of the assurance that if arrested,
 he shall be enlarged on bail." 10. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in State Vs. Anil Sharma ,

(1997) 7SCC 187, held as under:- 11. Weighing the facts of the case on the anvil of the law settled,

it is apparent that the case is under investigation and the complicity of the

petitioner has been prima facie found. Needless to say, in the facts and

circumstances, custodial interrogation of the petitioner would be essential

and granting anticipatory bail to the petitioner at this stage would scuttle

the ongoing investigation. 12. In view of the overall facts and circumstances of the case,

the petitioner does not qualify for the grant of anticipatory bail and the

same is hereby dismissed. Nothing said herein shall be treated as an

expression of opinion on the merits of the case.