1. Rule, by consent returnable forthwith. With the consent 

 of Counsel and at their request the Petition is taken up for hearing 

 and final disposal. 2. The Whole Time Member of the Securities and Exchange ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:20 ::: VBC 2 wp213.11

 Board of India has rejected an application filed by the Petitioner 

 
 for permission to undertake business as a Stock Exchange, other 

 
 than for the Currency Derivatives Segment. The order is under Section 4 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 

 
 (SCRA) and Sections 11(1) and 19 of the Securities and Exchange 

 Board of India Act, 1992. The Petition challenges the legality of 

 
 the order. 3. For convenience of exposition, this judgment is divided 
 
 into Parts, which are as follows: 4. The Fourth Respondent, Multi Commodity Exchange of 

 India Limited, who is a promoter of the Petitioner made an 
 

 application on 12 August 2008 for recognition of the Petitioner as 
 

 a Stock Exchange. The Petitioner was incorporated on 14 August 

 2008 and received a certificate for commencement of business on 

 19 August 2008. The Petitioner has two promoters, Financial 

 Technologies (India) Limited (FTIL) and Multi Commodities 

 Exchange of India (MCX), the Third and the Fourth Respondents. 8 Paragraphs 58-62
 9 paragraphs 63-66
 10 Paragraphs 67-69
 11 Paragraphs 70-81
 12 Paragraphs 82-93
 13 Paragraphs 94-103
 14 Paragraph 104 ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:20 ::: VBC 4 wp213.11

 On 22 August 2008, the Petitioner applied to SEBI for the grant of 

 
 recognition as a Stock Exchange under the provisions of Section 3 of the SCRA. On 23 August 2008, SEBI granted an in-principle 

 approval to the Petitioner to set up a Stock Exchange initially in the 

 
 Currency Derivatives Segment in accordance with the SCRA and its 

 Regulations. On 18 September 2008, SEBI addressed a letter to the 

 
 Petitioner granting recognition under Section 4 of the SCRA for 
 
 operating a Stock Exchange for a period of one year commencing 

 on 16 September 2008 and ending on 15 September 2009. The 
 
 approval was subject to various conditions, among them being the 

 following: The acronym MMIPS Regulations will be utilised in this judgment 

 for those Regulations. 5. The Petitioner commenced operations in the Currency 

 Derivatives Segment on 7 October 2008. The MIMPS Regulations 

 have a background. In August 2002, a Committee headed by ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:20 ::: VBC 5 wp213.11

 Mr.Justice M.H.Kania, former Chief Justice of India recommended 

 
 that (i) Stock Exchanges should be corporatised and demutualised; and (ii) Ownership of Stock Exchanges should not be concentrated 

 in the hands of a single entity or groups of related entities. Parliament introduced Sections 4A and 4B into the SCRA to foster 

 the separation of ownership and control of stock exchanges from 

 
 their trading members by implementing a scheme of 
 
 corporatisation and demutualisation. When the MIMPS 

 Regulations were issued in 2006, they were intended to provide for 
 
 corporatisation and demutualisation of old Stock Exchanges and 

 diversification of the ownership of Stock Exchanges. Full 
 

 compliance with the provisions of MIMPS Regulations was 
 

 mandated by SEBI in this background on 18 September 2008 when 

 it granted recognition to the Petitioner for a period of one year 

 under Section 4 of the SCRA. The MIMPS Regulations have 

 introduced a cap of 5% on the holding of any resident in the equity 

 capital of a recognised stock exchange. The cap applies to direct 

 and indirect shareholding and the holding of "persons acting in 

 concert". VBC 6 wp213.11 6. On 5 November 2008, SEBI issued a framework for 

 
 introducing trading of securities of Small and Medium Enterprises, 

 
 following which on 8 December 2008, the Petitioner furnished a 

 proposal for commencement of operations in that Segment. On 

 
 22 December 2008, the Petitioner applied to SEBI for permission to 

 commence business in the Equities and Derivative segment on the 

 
 Exchange platform in addition to the Small and Medium Enterprise 

 Segment. 7. On 31 March 2009, the Petitioner offered to issue shares 

 on a preferential basis to Punjab National Bank (PNB) together 
 

 with an exit option. The exit option stipulated that (i) PNB would 
 

 be entitled to a simple rate of return at the rate of 16% per annum 

 after completion of three years from the date of investment on the 

 total amount invested; (ii) FTIL or its nominees would have a right 

 to buy back shares from PNB at any time after the expiry of a 

 period of one year from the date of investment; and (iii) If PNB 

 retained the shares inspite of the buy back offer, it would not be 

 entitled to an assured rate of return and FTIL would have no 

 liability to buy back the shares in future. VBC 7 wp213.11 8. On 21 May 2009, the Petitioner addressed a letter to 

 
 SEBI seeking an extension of one year to ensure full compliance 

 with the MIMPS Regulations. 9. Between May and November 2009, in order to comply 

 
 with the MIMPS Regulations, the Petitioner in the first stage made 
 
 a series of primary allotments of shares on a preferential basis to 

 eighteen Banks. As a result, the paid up capital of the Petitioner 
 
 increased from Rs.135 crores to Rs.173.45 crores. On 15 June 

 2009, the Petitioner applied for renewal of its existing recognition 
 

 in the field of currency derivatives. 10, On 17 June 2009, the RBI-SEBI Standing Technical 

 Committee introduced a regulatory framework for trading on 

 Interest Rate Futures. Following this, on 19 June 2009, the 

 Petitioner made an application to SEBI for permission to launch 

 trading in Interest Rate Futures. VBC 8 wp213.11 11. On 18 July 2009, FTIL sold 7.18 crore shares of the 

 
 Petitioner amounting to 4.91 per cent of its paid up share capital 

 
 to IFCI Limited. On 20 July 2009, PNB addressed a letter to the 

 Petitioner setting out the terms and conditions on which its Board 

 
 had approved its investment in the shares of the Petitioner. The 

 letter stipulated that (i) PNB would be entitled to a simple rate of 

 
 return at 16% per annum on the completion of three years from 
 
 the date of investment; (ii) FTIL or its nominees would have a right 

 to buy back shares from PNB at any time after the expiry of one 
 
 year from the date of investment; and (iii) In the event that PNB 

 desired to retain the shares in spite of the buy back offer by FTIL, 
 

 PNB would not be entitled to the assured rate of return and FTIL 
 

 would have no liability to buy back the shares in future. On 12 

 August 2009, FTIL accepted the terms and conditions stipulated by 

 PNB, but expressed its inability to execute a share purchase 

 agreement. 12. On 20 August 2009, the Petitioner entered into a Share 

 Purchase Agreement (SPA) with IL& FS Financial Services Limited 

 (IL&FS) and the Fourth Respondent under which IL&FS agreed to ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:20 ::: VBC 9 wp213.11

 purchase shares of the Petitioner worth Rs.159.12 crores from the 

 
 Fourth Respondent. On the same date, as the execution of the 

 
 SPA, a company by the name of La-Fin Financial Services Pvt. Ltd. (La-Fin) addressed a letter to IL&FS offering an exit option. La-Fin, 

 
 which is a promoter of FTIL, furnished an undertaking accepting 

 the obligation to purchase in its sole discretion during the agreed 

 
 period all the shares purchased by IL&FS under the share purchase 
 
 agreement at any time after the completion of one year from the 

 date of investment, but no later than three years from the date of 
 
 investment after which the right of IL&FS would lapse. The 

 undertaking furnished by La-Fin to IL&FS inter alia contained the 
 

 following stipulation: Further, in the event MCX-SX plans an IPO within the 
 Agreed Period we undertake that the IPO price will not 
 
 be less than the Buy Back Price and you would be 
 provided the right to completely exit in such an IPO by 
 way of an offer for sale or else we shall provide the buy 
 
 back offer as per point 1 above at the Buy Back Price 
 before the listing of the shares. ... 5. We as promoters of MCX-SX shall ensure that, 
 

 save and except issuance of shares of MCX-SX to (a) 
 banks as listed in annexure to this letter to enhance its 
 

 share capital to Rs.180 crores, and (b) to the employees 
 of MCX-SX in terms of the employees' stock options 
 plans/schemes formulated by MCX-SX, MCX-SX shall not 

 issue any shares to any person at a price below Rs.35/- 
 per equity share, without the prior written consent of 
 IL&FS Financial Services Limited, which consent shall 
 not be unreasonably withheld or delayed or denied by 
 IL&FS Financial Services Limited. 6. We agree that pursuant to purchase of the 
 MCX-SX shares from you as per point 1, we undertake 
 for and on our behalf and on behalf of FTIL, MCX and 
 our group companies, not to sell/issue any equity shares 
 of MCX-SX for a period of three months commencing 
 from the date of purchase as per point 1 above, for a 
 price exceeding the Buy Back Price." VBC 11 wp213.11

 
 The sale of shares to IL&FS was effected on 21 August 2009. 13. The recognition granted to the Petitioner as a Stock 

 
 Exchange was renewed by SEBI for a further period of one year 

 ending on 15 September 2010 by a notification dated 31 August 

 
 2009, subject to the following conditions: (i) The Petitioner shall 
 
 ensure full compliance with the relevant provisions of the MIMPS 

 Regulations within a period of one year; (ii) The Petitioner would 
 
 permit trading only in securities in which trading was earlier 

 permitted and shall not be eligible for introduction of any class of 
 

 contracts in securities till such time as compliance in (i) above was 
 

 ensured; and (iii) The Petitioner shall comply with such other 

 conditions as may be imposed by SEBI from time to time. The 

 renewal was without prejudice to the rights of SEBI to decide the 

 application of the Petitioner dated 7 April 2010. 14. On 22 October 2009, the Petitioner submitted a report to 

 SEBI under Regulation 11(2) of the MIMPS Regulations. The report 

 included a statement of top ten shareholders of the Petitioner as on ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:20 ::: VBC 12 wp213.11

 30 September 2009. Among those shareholders were the Third 

 
 Respondent with a shareholding of 35.05%, the Fourth Respondent 

 
 with a shareholding of 38.31% and IFCI Ltd. with a shareholding of 

 4.27%. Hence, the shareholding pattern reflected that the 

 
 Promoter Companies had a shareholding of 73.36%. 15. On 31 October 2009, the Petitioner's Board of Directors 
 
 called upon the initial promoters, the Third and Fourth 

 Respondents, to reduce their shareholding by cancelling their 
 
 shares in excess of the prescribed limit, by a scheme of reduction- cum-arrangement under Sections 391 to 393 of the Companies' 
 

 Act, 1956 read with Sections 100 to 104. On 14 December 2009, 
 

 the Fourth Respondent addressed a letter to IL&FS referring to the 

 Share Purchase Agreement dated 20 August 2009 and La-Fin's 

 letter of the same date and requested IL&FS to approve the scheme 

 of reduction-cum-arrangement proposed to be considered at an 

 Extra-ordinary General Meeting to be held on 15 December 2009. 16. The scheme for reduction of the equity shareholding of 

 the promoters was approved by the shareholders of the Petitioner ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:20 ::: VBC 13 wp213.11

 at an Extra-ordinary General Meeting on 15 December 2009. The 

 
 scheme explained in paragraph 2.4 that the conventional method 

 
 of bringing down the existing stake of promoters by selling shares 

 to investors may substantially delay regulatory compliance. This, it 

 
 was stated, was because while on the one hand, investors were 

 willing to invest only after the Company received approvals for 

 
 selling other segments, the regulator wanted the process of 
 
 disinvestment to be completed before giving such approvals. Hence, it was stated that in order to expedite regulatory 
 
 compliance, it was proposed to reduce the excess shareholding of 

 the reducing shareholders and "compensate them by way of issue 
 

 of transferable warrants to them; which may be exercised by the 
 

 holder after six months of the issue without entailing any cash 

 outflow from the Company". The exercise of warrants, it was 

 clarified, "would always be subject to the SCR Regulations". The 

 objective of the scheme, it was stated, was to reduce the 

 shareholding of FTIL and MCX, the Third and Fourth Respondents, 

 each to 5%, as a result of which their combined equity 

 shareholding in the Company would be 10% of the total subscribed 

 share capital. The manner in which the scheme was to be worked ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:20 ::: VBC 14 wp213.11

 out was as follows: In the Petition that was filed before this Court, it was stated that 

 
 though the reducing shareholders had a right to transfer the

 warrants to other investors or to exercise the option under the

 
 warrants, the Petitioner would ensure compliance with the MIMPS 
 
 Regulations as well as the regulatory regime: 18. On 21 December 2009, the Petitioner addressed a letter 

 to SEBI highlighting the main features of the Scheme of Reduction. The letter accepted that the scheme "will be in contrast to the 

 normal practice of reducing holding by selling shares and realising 

 value". Among the main features of the Scheme which were ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:20 ::: VBC 16 wp213.11

 highlighted were as follows: ... d) MCX, FTIL and the other shareholder whose 
 equity shares are extinguished as above shall be allotted 
 an equal number of warrants as a part of the Scheme. e) Promoters once having reduced their 
 
 shareholding to 5% shall not be permitted to increase 
 their holding beyond limits specified under MIMPS 
 Regulation, thereafter." 19. The Scheme of Reduction-cum-Arrangement was 
 

 approved by the Company Judge of this Court on 12 March 2010 
 

 and the Scheme took effect from 19 March 2010. The order of the 

 Company Judge dated 12 March 2010 notes that the Regional 

 Director had filed an affidavit stating that the Scheme does not 

 appear to be prejudicial to the interests of the shareholders and 

 public except as stated in paragraphs 6(a) and 6(b). In paragraph 

 6(a) it was stated by the Regional Director that since the Company 

 was recognized as a stock exchange by SEBI, it was required to 

 inform the regulator about the proposed Scheme of Reduction. VBC 17 wp213.11

 The Petitioner by its letter dated 21 December 2009 was recorded 

 
 as having informed SEBI and of having obtained an 

 
 acknowledgment. The second objection of the Regional Director 

 was that there was no enabling provision in the Articles of 

 
 Association to issue warrants in lieu of a reduction of share capital 

 to which it was submitted on behalf of the Petitioner that the 

 
 warrants are securities convertible into shares and hence, the 
 
 issuance of warrants was enabled under the Articles of Association. On 19 March 2010, the Registrar of Companies issued a certificate 
 
 registering the order of this Court consequent upon which the 

 reduction of capital and the scheme stood implemented. 20. On 7 April 2010, the Petitioner informed SEBI of having 

 complied with the MIMPS Regulations and sought its approval to 

 deal in interest rate derivative markets, equities, futures and 

 options on equity and wholesale debt segments and in all segments 

 which are permitted to the Bombay Stock Exchange and National 

 Stock Exchange. On 13 April 2010, a copy of the order of the 

 Company Judge sanctioning the Scheme together with the Scheme 

 which was sanctioned was furnished by the Petitioner to SEBI. VBC 18 wp213.11

 SEBI had conducted an inspection of the Petitioner in July and 

 
 August 2009 in respect of which an inspection report was 

 
 forwarded on 16 April 2010. 21. On 4 June 2010, the Petitioner applied for renewal of its 

 recognition valid until 15 September 2010 to trade in the existing 

 
 securities. The Petitioner also sought an expeditious grant of
 
 permission to commence operation in other segments. 22. On 16 July 2010, the Petitioner instituted a writ 

 proceeding under Article 226 of the Constitution before this Court 
 

 aggrieved by the delay on the part of SEBI in deciding upon the 
 

 application for approval for commencing trading in other segments 

 in addition to exchange credit currency derivatives. 23. On 21 July 2010, SEBI addressed a letter to the 

 Petitioner stating that it had been brought to its notice that the 

 Petitioner had entered into buy back arrangements with a Bank 

 which was a shareholder of the Petitioner. This, it was stated, was 

 observed from a news article published on 19 July 2010. On 2 ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:20 ::: VBC 19 wp213.11

 August 2010, the Petitioner in a reply to SEBI's letter enclosed a 

 
 copy of the "comfort letter" which was issued to PNB by FTIL, its 

 
 promoter and the Third Respondent. 24. On 10 August 2010, a Division Bench of this Court 

 disposed of the Writ Petition by directing SEBI to take a final 

 
 decision on the application submitted by the Petitioner by 30 
 
 September 2010. The Court recorded the statement of the Third 

 and Fourth Respondents that they would convey to SEBI, Board 
 
 resolutions indicating their resolve to comply with the requirement 

 of the statutory regulations regarding the shareholding not 
 

 exceeding the prescribed percentage. Pursuant to the statement 
 

 made before the Division Bench, both FTIL and MCX, the two 

 Promoters of the Petitioner, passed and submitted Board 

 resolutions to SEBI to the effect that they shall not increase their 

 equity shareholding by acquiring equity shares under any buy back 

 or other arrangements which would result in the limits prescribed 

 under the MIMPS Regulations being exceeded and that they shall 

 at all times continue to comply with the Regulations. VBC 20 wp213.11 25. On 11 August 2010, IL&FS addressed a letter to SEBI in 

 
 order to explain the background of the investment made in the 

 
 Petitioner. The letter stated that a Share Purchase Agreement had 

 been executed in August 2009 for the purchase of 44.2 million 

 
 shares of the Petitioner from MCX. Another Share Purchase 

 Agreement was executed by a private equity fund managed by an 

 
 IL&FS Group Company with respect to 27.8 million shares. Under 
 
 an exit arrangement it was agreed that La-Fin Financial Services 

 which held a 26% equity stake in FTIL was obligated to offer to 
 
 purchase the shares held by the IL&FS Group on the completion of 

 one year and within a period of three years at a stipulated rate. The letter stated that on 10 August 2010, IL&FS Financial Services 
 

 Ltd. had, in a meeting of its Board, resolved to explore an exit from 

 the investment made in the shares of the Petitioner, including by 

 expediting the right to sell the investment in accordance with exit 

 terms to the promoters of the Petitioner. 26. On 19 August 2010, PNB addressed a letter to SEBI 

 regarding the buy back arrangement stating that in view of the 

 Scheme sanctioned by this Court for reduction of capital, there ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:20 ::: VBC 21 wp213.11

 would be an inference that PNB's arrangement with regard to buy 

 
 back of shares has "implicitly been extinguished". 27. On 30 August 2010, SEBI renewed the recognition of the 

 
 Petitioner for a period of one year with effect from16 September 

 2010 without prejudice to its right to decide upon the application 

 
 submitted by the Petitioner on 7 April 2010. II : The Notice by SEBI and the impugned order: 28. A notice was issued by SEBI to the Petitioner on 30 

 August 2010 under Sections 4(4) and 12A of the SCRA read with Sections 11(1) and 11B of the SEBI Act to show cause why the 
 

 application dated 7 April 2010 should not be rejected. Five 

 grounds were set out in support of the notice to show cause: (i) 

 Concentration of the promoters' interest in the Petitioner as a stock 

 exchange : the case being that both the Third and Fourth 

 Respondents continue to retain the same percentage share (38.01% 

 and 33.89%) of the issued equity shares and warrants taken 

 together as they did when both the promoters were holding only 

 equity shares of the Petitioner; (ii) The manner of compliance with ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:20 ::: VBC 22 wp213.11 Regulation 8(1) of the MIMPS Regulations did not accord with the 

 
 modes set out in Regulation 4 . All other Stock Exchanges had 

 
 adopted one of the modes explicitly recognised in Regulation 4 , 

 whereas the Petitioner had merely substituted the holding of equity 

 
 by a right to acquire equity; (iii) Neither the Petitioner nor its 

 promoters, the Third and Fourth Respondents, could be regarded 

 
 as fit and proper persons since inter alia the details of the buy back 
 
 arrangement had been concealed from SEBI. Prior to the letter 

 dated 21 December 2009, the Petitioner had not furnished any 
 
 information to SEBI in regard to the proposed Scheme of Reduction 

 and even at the time of filing of the application on 7 April 2010, 
 

 the Scheme was not shared with SEBI; (iv) The promoters of the 
 

 Petitioner are persons acting in concert within the meaning of 

 Explanation IV to Regulation 8(1) ; and (v) The Petitioner and its 

 promoters, the Third and Fourth Respondents, were in violation of 

 the SCRA inasmuch as the buy back agreements were forward 

 contracts which were in contravention of the provisions of the Act. The Petitioner submitted a reply to the notice to show cause on 16 

 September 2010. VBC 23 wp213.11 29. The Whole Time Member of the SEBI passed the 

 
 impugned order on 23 September 2010, rejecting the application of 

 
 the Petitioner dated 7 April 2010. The findings which have been 

 arrived at in the impugned order, may be broadly summarised 

 
 thus: in contrast to the Takeover Regulations which use the expression 

 "acquire". This would mean that a common objective attaches 

 itself to the holding of shares and not acquiring a target company. A person holding shares in a recognized Stock Exchange with a ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:21 ::: VBC 26 wp213.11

 common objective would be a person acting in concert for the 

 
 purposes of Regulation 8 ; (xi) FTIL and MCX are de jure, persons acting in concert for 

 
 the purpose of Regulation 8 . Section 370 of the Companies' Act, 

 1956 defines when two bodies corporate shall be deemed to be 

 
 under the same management. Reliance has been placed on two 
 
 letters dated 14 December 2009 and 20 August 2009 addressed by 

 MCX to IL&FS Financial Services Limited and by La-Fin to the same 
 
 Company (stated to be addressed by Jignesh P.Shah), Jignesh 

 Shah is the Chairman and Group Chief Executive Officer of FTIL 
 

 and Vice Chairman of MCX, both promoters of the Petitioner. He 
 

 has also been non-executive Vice Chairman of the Petitioner. He 

 has issued undertakings on behalf of the promoters and other 

 Group Companies that the Petitioner shall not issue shares except 

 as provided for. MCX is listed on the website of FTIL as a Group 

 Company and Jignesh Shah, CEO. He is, therefore, a de facto 

 Manager for both the promoter Companies. He is in effective 

 control and the driving force for the affairs of both FTIL and MCX. Consequently, the holding of both FTIL and of MCX exceeds the ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:21 ::: VBC 27 wp213.11

 permissible limit of five percent in a Stock Exchange. MCX and 

 
 FTIL are persons acting in concert for the purposes of Regulation 8 ; (xii) The buy back arrangements constitute forward contracts 

 
 and are contrary to the provisions of the SCRA; (xiii) The Petitioner is not a fit and proper person and it would 
 
 not be in public interest to allow the application. The Petitioner 

 had knowledge of the buy back arrangements and failed to 
 
 discharge its obligation to SEBI as a regulatory body to disclose 

 these transactions. In none of the quarterly reports submitted 
 

 under Regulation 11(5) were the arrangements disclosed. The 
 

 buy back arrangements were material to a determination of 

 whether the sale and transfer of ownership by promoters or 

 shareholders whose holding was in excess of permissible limits is in 

 full compliance with Regulation 8(1) . There was a failure on the 

 part of the Petitioner to fulfill its fiduciary responsibilities under Regulation 11 for making a full disclosure. The proposed Scheme 

 ought to have been submitted to SEBI and a confirmation should 

 have been sought as to whether it was in compliance with the ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:21 ::: VBC 28 wp213.11

 MIMPS Regulations; (xiv) There is a concentration of economic interest in the 

 Petitioner in the hands of the two promoters. The conclusions which have been arrived at by the Whole Time 

 
 Member are as follows: 30. Before we deal with the rival submissions, it must be 

 
 noted at the outset that the application dated 7 April 2010 was 

 filed by the Petitioner. SEBI issued a notice to show cause to the 

 
 Petitioner on 30 August 2010 to explain why the application should 
 
 not be rejected. The Third and Fourth Respondents, who are 
 
 promoters of the Petitioner, were not heard by SEBI. No Petition 

 independently has been filed by them. During the course of the 
 

 hearing, Counsel appearing on behalf of the Third and Fourth 
 

 Respondents submitted before the Court that in support of the 

 Petitioner, they would urge submissions on merits about the 

 legality of the order passed by SEBI on 23 September 2010 and 

 would, therefore, not be urging that there is a breach of the 

 principles of natural justice. III : SUBMISSIONS : 31. The Petitioner has submitted before the Court that the 

 
 principal findings against it are that: Consequently, the means adopted by other Stock Exchanges cannot 
 

 apply to the Petitioner; (v) The submission of concentration of economic interest has not 

 been pressed by SEBI before the Court. Concentration of economic 

 interest is not contemplated as a ground in any Regulation, 

 statutory provision or in the permission granted to the Petitioner; (vi) The Petitioner has complied with the MIMPS Regulations to 

 the extent to which they can be applied to it; VBC 33 wp213.11 (vii) The right to convert warrants into equity shares has 

 
 erroneously been equated by SEBI with equity shares. In any 

 event, undertakings have been filed before this Court and before 

 
 SEBI to the effect that at no point will the MIMPS Regulations be 

 violated or the limit of shareholding crossed. B.
 
 On the issue as to whether the Petitioner is a fit and 

 proper person, it has been urged that the order passed by SEBI is 
 
 based on the non-disclosure of the buy back arrangements by the 

 Petitioner and its promoters. In this regard, it has been urged that: b. The Third Respondent's submissions 32. On behalf of the Third Respondent, which has supported 
 
 the Petitioner as its promoter, it has been urged that SEBI has 

 advanced the following grounds in regard to the buy back 
 

 arrangements between the promoters on the one hand and PNB 
 

 and IL&FS on the other hand: A. The submissions which have been urged by the Third 
 
 Respondent on the legality of the buy back arrangement are as 

 follows: B. The alternative submission of SEBI is that even if the 

 buy back is not a forward contract, it amounts to an option in 

 securities which is a contract in derivatives not traded or settled on 

 any recognised Stock Exchange or with the permission of SEBI. VBC 38 wp213.11

 Consequently, the buy back arrangement would be in violation of 

 
 Section 18A of the SCRA. On this submission of SEBI, it has been 

 
 urged that: C. As regards the second contention of SEBI that the 

 
 exercise of the option under the buy back arrangement will result 
 
 in a contract coming into existence and which upon being 

 performed by the promoters will result in their exceeding the limit 
 
 of five percent under the MIMPS Regulations, it has been urged 

 that: More over, even if the promoters were to acquire shares on the 
 
 exercise of the option under the buy back arrangement by PNB or 

 IL&FS, the promoters could lawfully comply with the Regulations 
 
 by increasing the authorised share capital of the Petitioner to such 

 an extent that the acquisition of shares pursuant to the buy back 
 

 arrangement would not result in the promoters exceeding the 
 

 shareholding of five percent. Alternatively, the promoters could 

 arrange for the acquisition of the shares by some other 

 independent persons so that no one would cross the limit of five 

 percent. In any event, the effect of the exercise of the buy back 

 option would have to be considered only at that stage in the light 

 of the situation as it would emerge. Allowing SEBI to take into 

 consideration hypothetical future possibilities would result in an 

 arbitrary exercise of powers contrary to Article 14; VBC 41 wp213.11 (iii) Since the order passed by SEBI is based on specific grounds, no 

 
 generalities can be used to sustain the order if it is otherwise not 

 sustainable. Public interest does not include mere future 

 
 possibilities being taken into account. As a matter of fact, SEBI has 

 acted against public interest, by perpetuating, the monopoly of one 

 
 Stock Exchange which alone at present has permission to deal in 
 
 the segments. The Petitioner is ready and willing to provide such 

 safeguards as may be required by the Court; (iv) The only reason furnished by SEBI for holding that the 
 

 promoters are not fit and proper persons is that they were parties 
 

 to a buy back arrangement which is alleged to be illegal. This 

 ground being misconceived, since the buy back arrangement is not 

 illegal, there is no basis to hold that the promoters are not fit and 

 proper persons; (v) Even though SEBI is a statutory regulator, it cannot claim 

 immunity from judicial review though in a restricted field. If 

 within the restricted area where judicial review is permissible, it is ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:21 ::: VBC 42 wp213.11

 demonstrated that the order is arbitrary, based on irrelevant 

 
 considerations and contrary to law, the Court ought to exercise its 

 
 jurisdiction to set aside the order. c. The Fourth Respondent's submissions 33. On behalf of the Fourth Respondent, the following 

 
 submissions have been urged: (iii) SEBI has erred in ignoring the factual position on the date of 
 
 the consideration of the application. On that date, the promoters' 

 shareholding stood reduced to five percent and the mere possibility 
 

 of the promoters increasing their shareholding beyond five percent 
 

 in future could not justify the order. SEBI's conclusion would have 

 been correct if the warrants provided for automatic conversion into 

 shares and if the warrants were not transferable at all. That is not 

 the case; (iv) If SEBI were to act on the basis of a mere possibility of a future 

 breach, the action would be rendered arbitrary and unreasonable; VBC 44 wp213.11 (v) The warrant holder does not become a shareholder and his 

 
 name is not borne on the register of members until the option is 

 
 exercised; (vi) The existence of the buy back arrangement is an irrelevant 

 factor as in the case of warrants. Non-disclosure of the buy back 

 
 arrangement has no effect on the decision. What was required to 
 
 be disclosed were facts pertaining to the shareholding of the 

 promoters on the date of the consideration of the application and 
 
 not the possibility of an event happening in future which could 

 result in a breach; (vii) The possibility of the buy back arrangement increasing the 

 shareholding of promoters to beyond five percent is not a relevant 

 consideration. In spite of the exercise of the option under the buy 

 back arrangement, the promoters' shareholding can still be within 

 the limit of five percent by the promoters (a) disposing of their 

 other existing shareholding so that the total shareholding does not 

 exceed five percent; (b) increasing the share capital so that the 

 increased holding of the promoters does not exceed five percent; VBC 45 wp213.11

 and (c) performing the buy back arrangement by nominating a 

 
 third party to buy back the shares; (viii) The MIMPS Regulations do not upon their terms apply to the 

 
 Petitioner, but they have been made applicable by notifications 

 dated 18 September 2008 and 31 August 2009. Under the later 

 
 notification, only the relevant Regulations are made applicable. This notification was issued to get over an impasse created by the 

 earlier notification. If a limited Company already in existence 
 
 applied for permission, such permission could not be granted 

 because all promoters taken together would ordinarily hold more 
 

 than five percent shares. In such an event, there would be no 
 

 application made by an existing Company and all the provisions 

 would be rendered useless. Hence, that regulation has no 

 application to the facts of the present case and there can be no 

 occasion to commit a breach thereof; (ix) Alternatively, even if the combined shareholding of two 

 promoters is to be considered, even then, unless it is established 

 that they were acting in concert, there would be no violation of ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:21 ::: VBC 46 wp213.11 Regulation 8 . Acting in concert pre-supposes a requirement of an 

 
 overt act. Acting in concert in promoting a Company cannot be 

 
 regarded as acting in concert while considering an application for 

 permission unless an overt act post promotion is established; (x) The issue as to whether two promoters by holding more than 

 
 five percent of the shares are acting in concert is a question of fact 
 
 to be determined after considering the entire material. An 

 inference of promoters acting in concert is negated by the fact that (a) The promoters have made efforts to bring down their 

 shareholding from 49% and 51% respectively to five percent each; and (b) They have furnished an undertaking to keep their holding 
 

 within limits; (xi) The essential requirement of acting in concert is a common 

 objective as held by the Supreme Court. Explanation IV to Regulation 8(1) refers to Regulation 2(1)(e) of the Takeover 

 Regulations indicating a legislative intent to adopt the definition. An explanation is an integral part of the statute and has to be 

 construed harmoniously with the main provision. The expression ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:22 ::: VBC 47 wp213.11

 "derived from" is a narrow expression and the essential features of 

 
 the definition of a person acting in concert in the Takeover 

 
 Regulations cannot be destroyed. Since the definition of "person 

 acting in concert" is incorporated from the Takeover Regulations, 

 
 the expression has to be interpreted in the sense in which it 

 appears in those Regulations. Even if the definition is applied 

 
 mutatis mutandis, it cannot destroy the essential features of the 

 MIMPS; (xii) The contention that Mr.Jignesh Shah controls the promoters 

 and the Petitioner and that hence, in view of Regulation 2(e)(2)(i) , 
 
 

 the promoters are acting in concert is not sustainable. The only 

 material alleged is that Mr.Jignesh Shah had addressed two letters. One of the two letters was in fact, not signed by Mr.Shah. He 

 cannot be considered as a "Manager" within the meaning of Section 2(24) of the Companies' Act, 1956 merely on the basis of 

 addressing one letter. In view of the provisions of Regulation 2(2) of the Takeover Regulations, the expression "Companies under the 

 same management" shall have the meaning given in Section 

 370(1B) of the Companies' Act, 1956; VBC 48 wp213.11 (xiii) SEBI at all material times, was aware of the position of 

 
 Mr.Jignesh Shah and that at no point of time was a grievance 

 made; (xiv) The only basis on which the Petitioner has been held not to be 

 
 a fit and proper person is that there was an option to convert the 
 
 warrants and there was a buy back arrangement. Both are 

 irrelevant. Even if an option is exercised, that would not 
 
 necessarily result in increasing the shareholding beyond five 

 percent. Moreover, the buy back arrangement is not going to be 
 

 operated since the undertaking given is that the shareholding 
 

 would not be increased; (xv) In any event, the findings which have been made against the 

 promoters cannot be permitted to be used in any other 

 proceedings, since the promoters are not parties to the proceedings 

 in which the order was passed. 34. On behalf of the First Respondent, the following 

 
 submissions have been urged by the Additional Solicitor General of 

 
 India: (iii) Between 2008 and 2010, the Petitioner adopted a 

 number of steps to achieve compliance with the MIMPS 

 Regulations including the sale of shares coupled with an obligation 

 of the promoters to buy back shares and the Scheme of Reduction- cum-Arrangement to convert some of the equity shares into ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:22 ::: VBC 50 wp213.11

 warrants. On scrutiny, SEBI discovered that the Petitioner has 

 
 failed to comply with the MIMPS Regulations for the following 

 
 reasons: Consequently, the provisions of the Regulations must be read 
 

 contextually; (v) The finding in the impugned order that FTIL and MCX 

 are persons acting in concert for the purposes of Regulation 8 and 

 that their combined holding of ten percent of the equity capital of 

 the Petitioner is in breach of Regulation 8 , is a finding of fact; Companies are deemed to be under the same management if inter 

 
 alia they have a common Manager. FTIL and MCX have a common 

 
 Manager (Jignesh Shah) and are, therefore, deemed to be persons 

 acting in concert for the purposes of the MIMPS Regulations. This 

 
 finding is based on certain letters addressed by Jignesh Shah, 

 Director of La-Fin and the promoter of FTIL. He is a Chairman and 

 
 Group Executive Officer of FTIL (a promoter of the Petitioner) and 
 
 the Vice Chairman of MCX (the Second promoter of the Petitioner). He is also a non-executive Vice Chairman of the Petitioner. He 
 
 issued an undertaking on behalf of MCX and FTIL and other group 

 Companies that the Petitioner will not issue shares except as 
 

 provided for. This shows that he was not only in a position to issue 
 

 an undertaking for FTIL of which he is Managing Director, but also 

 for MCX of which he is designated as non-executive Vice Chairman. MCX is listed as a Group Company of FTIL. The two promoters are, 

 therefore, under a common management; (vii) The expression "persons in concert" as it is used in the 

 Takeover Regulations must apply mutatis mutandis to the MIMPS 

 Regulations and hence, there is no requirement of a common ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:22 ::: VBC 53 wp213.11

 objective of acquisition for the purposes of the MIMPS Regulations. This is buttressed by the use of the word "derived" in Explanation 4. Prior to its amendment in 2008, Regulation 8 provided that no 

 person shall directly or indirectly acquire or hold more than five 

 
 percent in the paid up equity capital of a recognized Stock 

 Exchange. After the amendment, the reference to acquire has been 

 
 deleted indicating that a common purpose of acquiring shares is 
 
 not relevant to the MIMPS Regulations; (viii) Even the Takeover Regulations use the expression 

 "persons acting in concert" in the context of a mere holding of 
 

 shares without acquisition; (ix) FTIL and MCX continue to act in unison with a common 

 object of continuing to hold equity shares of the Petitioner in excess 

 of the limit specified in Regulation 8 : (a) In response to a letter of 

 PNB offering to purchase shares of the Petitioner if a buy back was 

 provided, FTIL wrote to PNB offering a buy back; (b) MCX sold 

 shares of the Petitioner to IL&FS for which a buy back was entered 

 into between IL&FS and La-Fin. However, on 26 March 2010 when ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:22 ::: VBC 54 wp213.11

 IL&FS exercised its right under the buy back arrangements, the 

 
 warrants were purchased by MCX instead of La-Fin. FTIL controls 

 
 MCX. Control has a wide meaning and means effective control; (x) The shareholding pattern of the promoters of the 

 Petitioner is also in breach of Regulation 8 . La-Fin Financial 

 
 Services Pvt. Ltd. is a Company owned and controlled by Jignesh 
 
 Shah and his wife and as a promoter of FTIL and MCX. The shares 

 of the Petitioner held by FTIL and MCX are indirectly held by La- Fin/Jignesh Shah breaching the five percent limit; (xi) La-Fin, FTIL and MCX constitute one group which is 
 

 evident from the following circumstances: (a) Jignesh Shah and his 

 wife hold hundred percent of the equity capital of La-Fin as 

 admitted at the hearing by the Petitioner and by the Third and 

 Fourth Respondents; (b) La-Fin together with Jignesh Shah and his 

 family hold 45.53% of the equity share capital of FTIL; (c) FTIL 

 holds 31.18% of the equity capital of MCX; (d) The website of FTIL 

 shows the Petitioner and MCX as part of the FTIL Group; and (e) 

 La-Fin's letter dated 20 August 2009 and MCX's letter dated 14 ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:22 ::: VBC 55 wp213.11

 December 2009 corroborates the position; (xii) As regards the buy back arrangements, the submissions 

 are as follows: (a) Though the buy back agreements were entered 

 
 into to comply with the MIMPS Regulations, these arrangements 

 were not disclosed to SEBI, thereby withholding relevant 

 
 information; (b) The entering into the buy back agreements and 
 
 the conduct of the group are relevant factors that SEBI can take 

 into account while deciding as to whether to recognize a Stock 
 
 Exchange; (c) The buy back agreements are illegal, albeit for 

 reasons different from those set out in the impugned order and in 
 

 the show cause notice dated 30 August 2010. Hence, if a member 
 

 of the Stock Exchange enters into an illegal contract, it is rendered 

 unfit to run a Stock Exchange. SEBI should be allowed to plead the 

 illegality of the agreements in these proceedings on grounds other 

 than those contained in the show cause notice and the impugned 

 order; agreement by MCX in respect of warrants that were issued to it

 
 pursuant to the Scheme of Reduction. IL&FS exercised that right on

 26 March 2010 by requiring MCX to procure the purchase of some

 
 warrants. In fact, IL&FS in a letter to SEBI asserted that the buy 

 back agreement is a valid contract; (xiv) The buy back agreements are valid contracts in praesenti 

 
 though there is no obligation in praesenti. The enforceability of the 
 
 contract is dependent on the volition of one of the parties and not 
 
 on a contingent event; (xv) The SCRA applies equally to listed and unlisted 
 

 companies and would apply to the shares of the Petitioner; (xvi) The impugned order proceeds on the basis that the buy 

 back agreements are forward contracts and, therefore, illegal under Sections 13 and 16 of the SCRA. However, on a close scrutiny, it 

 appears that the buy back agreements are actually option contracts 

 and are, therefore, illegal under Section 18A and of the SCRA. A 

 buy back agreement envisages that the institutional investor has a ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:22 ::: VBC 57 wp213.11

 right, but not an obligation to sell shares to the promoters of the 

 
 Petitioner and constitutes an option in securities under Section 

 
 2(1)(d) . Option contracts are derivatives under Section 2(ac) . Under Section 18A, contracts in derivatives are lawful only if 

 
 traded on a recognized Stock Exchange and settled on its clearing 

 house. Neither were the buy back agreements entered into on a 

 
 recognized Stock Exchange, nor was SEBI's permission obtained as 
 
 required by the notification dated 1 March 2000. The buy back 

 agreements are, therefore, unlawful; (xvii) As regards the issuance of warrants as a mode for 
 

 compliance with the MIMPS Regulations, Regulation 8 unlike Regulation 4 does not specify the manner in which shareholding 

 should be reduced to below the specified threshold. The modes 

 specified in Regulation 4 are not required to be followed 

 mandatorily for the purposes of Regulation 8 . Reducing 

 shareholding by the issuance of warrants, however, leaves an 

 escape-hatch open to the promoters to increase their shareholding 

 whenever they so desire. The submission of the Petitioner that the 

 Scheme sanctioned by the Company Court operates in rem and ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:22 ::: VBC 58 wp213.11

 would bind SEBI is erroneous. A Scheme under Section 391 binds 

 
 the creditors and shareholders and cannot bind SEBI which does 

 
 not in any event have locus in a Section 391 Petition. SEBI is not a 

 creditor and the Scheme does not bind it under Section 391(2) ; (xviii) In the event that the Third and Fourth Respondents 

 
 could not have complied with the shareholding limit prescribed in Regulation 8 , they could have made an application under Regulation 9 for permission to exceed the shareholding limit. No 
 
 such application was made; (xix) The doctrine of contemporanea exposito applied in the 
 

 context of ancient statutes has no applicability to the interpretation 

 of modern statutes. The mere silence of SEBI in the face of certain 

 Red Herring Prospectuses mentioning the existence of the buy back 

 agreements is not sufficient and some manifestation of a conscious 

 act or clarification on the part of SEBI was necessary even 

 assuming that the doctrine is attracted; not sit in judgment over the decision of the regulator as an 

 
 Appellate Forum, but will interfere only when the decision is so 

 
 unreasonable that no reasonable authority could have come to that 

 decision. When dealing with orders of the expert bodies, the 

 
 interference of the Court is confined to those cases where an 

 order is perverse, based on no evidence or on a misreading of 

 
 evidence. On these grounds, it has been urged that the 
 
 interference of the Court is not warranted in the exercise of the 

 jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution. 35. These submissions now fall for determination. 36. The adjudication in the present case is by the Whole 

 Time Member of SEBI, which is an expert statutory body. While 

 assessing the challenge to those findings, the Court must bear in 

 mind that the interference of the Court under Article 226 of the 

 Constitution is confined to certain well settled, if restricted, 

 parameters. The view of the expert should not be disturbed unless 

 it is perverse or not based on evidence or is based on a misreading 

 of evidence. This principle was laid down by the Supreme Court ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:22 ::: VBC 60 wp213.11

 even in the context of the appellate power of the High Court over a 

 
 determination made by the Electricity Regulatory Commission. ( West Bengal Electricity Regulatory Commission vs. C.E.S.C. 

 Ltd. )15 The High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution would 

 
 not be justified in substituting the view of an expert adjudicator for 

 another view merely because it commends itself to the Court. 16 

 
 
 IV : The provisions of the SCRA : 37. Section 4 of the SCRA empowers the Central 
 
 Government to grant recognition to a Stock Exchange if it is 

 satisfied, after making an enquiry as may be required: ( Haryana Financial Corporation vs. Jagdamba Oil Mills ), (2002) 3 SCC 496. 16 [See also the judgment of Mr.Justice Moses in the Queens Bench Division
 Administrative Court in the U.K. in The Queen On the application of London and
 Continental Stations and Property Limited vs. The Rail Regulator, 2003 EWHC
 2607.] ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:22 ::: VBC 61 wp213.11

 carrying out the objects of this Act; and (c) that it would be in the interest of the trade and also 
 in the public interest to grant recognition to the stock 

 
 exchange." Under sub-section (2) of Section 4 , the Central Government may 

 prescribe by way of Rules, conditions for the grant of recognition 

 
 relating to (i) the qualifications for membership of the stock 
 
 exchange; (ii) the manner in which contracts shall be entered into; (iii) the representation of the Central Government; and (iv) 
 
 maintenance and audit of accounts. 38. Historically, Stock Exchanges were owned and 
 

 controlled by persons who were also trading members of the 

 Exchange. In August 2002, an Expert Committee headed by 

 Mr.Justice M.H.Kania examined the ownership structures of Stock 

 Exchanges and recommended that : (a) Stock Exchanges should be 

 corporatised and demutualised; and (b) Ownership of Stock 

 Exchanges should not be concentrated in the hands of a single 

 entity or groups of related entities. In paragraph 9.30 of its 

 report, the Committee stated that demutualisation demands that ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:22 ::: VBC 62 wp213.11

 shareholding in a stock exchange should not remain exclusively 

 
 with the brokers on the stock exchange. The Committee opined 

 
 that dispersal of membership can be achieved in one of two ways: 39. Following the report of the Kania Committee, Sections 

 4A and 4B were introduced with effect from 12 October 2004 by ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:22 ::: VBC 63 wp213.11

 the Securities Laws (Amendment) Act, 2004 into the SCRA. Section 4A stipulates that on and from the appointed date, all 

 
 recognized stock exchanges if not corporatised and demutualised 

 before the appointed date, shall be corporatised and demutualised 

 
 in accordance with the provisions of Section 4B. Section 4B lays 

 down the procedure for corporatisation and demutualisation. Under sub-section (1) all recognised stock exchanges referred to in Section 4A , were mandated to submit a scheme for corporatisation 

 and demutualisation to SEBI for its approval within such time as 
 
 may be stipulated. SEBI is empowered to approve a scheme 

 submitted upon being satisfied that it would be in the interest of 
 

 trade and in public interest. SEBI is empowered in sub-section (6) 
 

 while approving the scheme to restrict the voting rights of the 

 shareholders who are also stock brokers of the exchange; the right 

 of shareholders or stock brokers to appoint representatives on the 

 governing board and to provide that the maximum number of 

 representatives of the stock brokers on the governing board shall 

 not exceed one-fourth of the total strength of the board. Sub- section (8) of Section 4B stipulates that every recognised stock 

 exchange in respect of which a scheme for corporatisation or ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:22 ::: VBC 64 wp213.11

 demutualisation has been approved under sub-section (2), shall, 

 
 either by fresh issue of equity shares to the public or in any other 

 
 manner as may be specified by the regulations made by SEBI, 

 ensure that at least fifty-one per cent of its equity share capital is 

 
 held, within twelve months of the publication of the order under 

 sub-section (7) notifying the scheme by the public other than 

 
 shareholders having trading rights. 40. Section 12A of the SCRA empowers SEBI to issue 
 
 directions in the interests of investors and the securities market 

 where it is satisfied that it is necessary: MIMPS Regulations ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:22 ::: VBC 65 wp213.11 41. In exercise of the powers inter alia conferred by Section 

 
 31 read with sub-section (8) of Section 4B, SEBI notified the 

 
 Securities Contracts (Regulation)(Manner of Increasing and 

 Maintaining Public Shareholding in Recognized Stock Exchanges) 

 
 Regulations, 2006. 42. Regulation 2 contains definitions. The expression 
 
 "control" is defined in Regulation 2(e) to have the meaning 

 assigned to it, in Regulation 2(1)(c) of the SEBI (Substantial 
 
 Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997. The 

 expression "public" is defined in Regulation 2(h) to include any 
 

 member or section of the public, but not to include any 
 

 shareholder of a recognized stock exchange having trading rights 

 or any associate of such shareholder. The expression "associate" is 

 defined in Regulation 2(b) . In Regulation 2(j) a shareholder 

 having trading rights means a shareholder, who has a trading 

 interest in the stock exchange, whether directly or indirectly. 43. Regulation 3 provides that the MIMPS Regulations shall 

 be applicable to all recognized stock exchanges in respect of which ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:22 ::: VBC 66 wp213.11

 a scheme for corporatisation or demutualisation has been approved 

 
 by the Board under Section 4B. Regulation 3 indicates that the 

 
 MIMPS Regulations were to apply only to old mutualised stock 

 exchanges for which a scheme is approved by SEBI. The 

 
 application of the Regulations to the Petitioner was brought about 

 initially by SEBI's approval on 18 September 2008 to set up a stock 

 
 exchange which was subject to the condition that the Petitioner 
 
 would ensure full compliance with the MIMPS Regulations. The 

 approval being valid initially for a period of one year, it was 
 
 renewed subsequently. In the course of the renewal dated 31 

 August 2009, the Petitioner was called upon to comply fully with 
 

 the relevant provisions of the MIMPS Regulations. The 
 

 modification in the terminology effected on 31 August 2009 by 

 requiring full compliance with the relevant provisions of the 

 MIMPS Regulations is an aspect which would have to be borne in 

 mind. The Petitioner was as such, not a stock exchange in respect 

 of which a scheme was approved by SEBI under Section 4B. There 

 can be no manner of doubt that even so, as a condition attaching to 

 the grant of recognition, SEBI was entitled to impose stipulations. Among those in Sub-section (2) of Section 4 , is a stipulation for ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:22 ::: VBC 67 wp213.11

 qualification for membership of the stock exchange. Sub-section 

 
 (2) of Section 4 contemplates that Rules can be framed for the 

 
 grant of recognition to stock exchanges to include among other 

 matters, conditions relating to those specified in clauses (1), (2), 

 
 (3) and (4). SEBI also has a broad power, which is conferred upon 

 it in Section 12A, to issue directions to secure the interest of the 

 
 investors, the orderly development of the securities market, to 
 
 prevent the affairs of a recognised stock exchange being conducted 

 in a manner detrimental to the interest of investors or the securities 
 
 market and to secure the proper management of any stock 

 exchange. SEBI has the power to require compliance with the 
 

 MIMPS Regulations as a condition for the grant of recognition even 
 

 to an exchange such as the Petitioner. As a matter of fact, these 

 proceedings have been conducted by Counsel on the basis that it 

 was as a result of SEBI's notification that the provisions of the 

 MIMPS Regulations were attracted. 44. Regulation 4 provides that a stock exchange shall ensure 

 that at least 51% of its equity share capital is held by the public 

 either by a fresh issue of equity shares to the public through the ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:22 ::: VBC 68 wp213.11

 issue of a prospectus or in the following manner: Regulation 4 forms part of Chapter II of the MIMPS Regulations 
 

 which deals with the manner of increasing public shareholding. Regulation 8 forms part of Chapter III which deals with 

 shareholding restrictions. Regulation 8(1) provides that no person 

 resident in India shall, at any time, directly or indirectly, either 

 individually or together with persons acting in concert hold more 

 than five per cent of the equity share capital in a recognized stock 

 exchange. Under the first proviso, the restriction of five per cent is 

 enhanced upto fifteen per cent of the paid up equity share capital 

 of a recognized stock exchange in the case of a stock exchange, a ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:22 ::: VBC 69 wp213.11

 depository, a clearing corporation, a banking or an insurance 

 
 company and a public financial institution. Explanation (IV) to Regulation 8 states that the expression "persons acting in concert" 45. Regulation 8(1) , in its present form, was substituted by 

 an amendment which was with effect from 23 December 2008. Prior to its substitution, Regulation 8(1) contained a stipulation 

 prohibiting a person from acquiring or holding more than five per 
 
 

 cent in the paid up equity share capital in a recognized stock 

 exchange. The reference to acquisition has been deleted in the 

 Regulation as it has been recast after amendment. The prohibition 

 in Regulation 8(1) brings within its purview a holding whether 

 directly or indirectly or either individually or together with persons 

 acting in concert of more than five per cent of the equity share 

 capital. Regulation 9(1) stipulates that no person shall, directly or 

 indirectly, either individually or together with persons acting in 

 concert with him, acquire and/or hold more than five per cent of ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:23 ::: VBC 70 wp213.11

 the paid up equity share capital unless he is a fit and proper person 

 
 and has taken prior approval of the Board for doing so. Hence, if 

 
 the stipulation restricting the holding to five per cent is to be 

 exceeded after the commencement of the Regulations, this can only 

 
 take place with the prior approval of the Board and subject to the 

 fitness of the person. Who is to be regarded as a fit and proper 

 
 person is defined in Regulation 9(2) . 46. Regulation 11 deals with the obligations of a recognized 
 
 stock exchange. Such an exchange under sub-regulation (1) has to 

 ensure that : At the end of every quarter, every recognized stock exchange is 

 required to submit a report to the Board on: (a) The names of ten ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:23 ::: VBC 71 wp213.11

 largest shareholders together with the number and percentage of 

 
 the shares held; (b) The names of the shareholders falling under Regulation 8 , who had acquired shares in that quarter; and (c) The 

 shareholding pattern in the stock exchange. An undertaking 

 
 confirming compliance of the provisions of sub-regulation (1) has 

 to be submitted to the Board on a quarterly basis within fifteen 

 
 days from the end of each quarter. Regulation 11(4) confers an 
 
 overriding power on SEBI to call for any information inter alia 

 from a recognized stock exchange. Every exchange is required by Regulation 11(5) to maintain and preserve books, registers and 

 documents and records relating to the issue or sale of equity shares 
 

 under the Regulations for a period of ten years. The Board has the 
 

 power under Regulation 12 to undertake inspection and conduct 

 enquiries and audit of a recognized stock exchange or any 

 shareholder having trading rights in the exchange. V : Role of Stock Exchanges 47. Stock Exchanges traditionally were constituted by 

 brokers and dealers, who were in management. This position has 

 undergone a radical change in several countries. Andreas M ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:23 ::: VBC 72 wp213.11

 Fleckner in a seminal article titled "Stock Exchanges at the 

 
 Crossroads"17 notes that with increased competition caused by 

 
 deregulation, technological advances and globalization, the 

 organisation of stock exchanges was at crossroads. The 

 
 organization of stock exchanges was altered with the onset of 

 demutualization: 48. Stock exchanges, as the author notes, bring together 

 sellers and buyers, investors and issuers and through information 

 distribution, informed and uninformed market participants. What 

 makes stock exchanges institutions with a distinctive character is 

 17 Fordham Law Review- April, 2006 ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:23 ::: VBC 73 wp213.11

 that they are both regulators and regulated entities. They are 

 
 regulators because they oversee the market which they organize. They are regulated because they are subject to the control and 

 supervision of a regulator (SEBI in India). 49. Fleckner identifies five functions of stock exchanges: Stock markets serve the economy and the public by bringing 

 together those who demand capital (corporations) and those who 
 

 supply capital (investors). Investors can reduce risk by spreading 
 

 their investments. Stock exchanges make those investments liquid 

 enough to invest and divest without significant price changes by 

 providing liquidity. Traditionally, this function was performed on 

 the floor of the stock exchange where brokers met, negotiated and 

 agreed upon the price for stock transfers executed for their 

 principals. In an electronic age, the trading floor of the stock 

 exchange is becoming increasingly obsolescent with stock 

 exchanges maintaining electronic systems world wide that can ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:23 ::: VBC 74 wp213.11

 match orders for the buying and selling of shares automatically; (ii) Stock exchanges are information distributors. This 

 function consists of the trades executed, the volume, price, and 

 
 parties involved. This function has a considerable economic value 

 in providing financial services such as market reports and analysis 

 
 of stocks. Information about previous trades is of material 
 
 significance in the market for derivatives which are financial 

 instruments whose value is derived from an underlying asset such 
 
 as stocks. Information about settled trades has a regulatory 

 function since it is the basis of market surveillance and helps in 
 

 detecting securities fraud such as insider trading or market 
 

 manipulation; (iii) Stock exchanges are regulators of the market which they 

 organize. This ranges from compliance surveillance to 

 enforcement. The broker-dealers who trade on the market are 

 subject to rules of the stock exchanges. Stock exchanges also 

 monitor compliance by participants with the regulatory regime 

 including that directed by the statutory regulator. Stock exchanges ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:23 ::: VBC 75 wp213.11

 perform an important role to ensure fair trading and accurate price 

 
 discovery both of which are critical in creating investor confidence; (iv) Stock exchanges set standards of corporate governance 

 
 through their listing rules; (v) Finally, while fulfilling this function, stock exchanges 
 
 carry on business enterprises. As business enterprises (though the 

 business of running a stock exchange may not necessarily be 
 
 commercial), the performance of the stock exchange has a bearing 

 on its competitive position in relation to its own competitors. 50. Commencing with the Stockholm Stock Exchange in 

 1993 stock exchanges worldwide transformed themselves from 

 member-owned companies into publicly held companies, a 

 development known as demutualisation. Consequently, the right 

 to trade at the stock exchange came to be separated from 

 ownership. Among the factors that fostered competition among 

 stock exchanges worldwide, were deregulation, technological 

 progress and globalization. Capital and investors seamlessly cross ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:23 ::: VBC 76 wp213.11

 borders in a globalised world, brought together by modern 

 
 technology. The consequence of demutualisation was to provide 

 
 stock exchanges with access to capital suppliers, high end 

 technology and state of the art information systems. Demutualisation also resulted in changes in the management 

 structure of stock exchanges. Under the traditional structure 

 
 broker dealers were key decision makers. With demutualisation 
 
 there was a separation of ownership and the control. If the 

 shareholding is dispersed, the role of management ought to stand 
 
 transferred, at least in theory, to senior management. 51. Stock exchanges provide what is described as "the first 
 

 layer of oversight". In many areas, stock exchanges are self 

 regulators. As self regulatory organizations, stock exchanges have 

 a front-line responsibility for regulation of their markets and for 

 controlling compliance by members of rules to which they are 

 subject. They ensure in that capacity, compliance of the 

 requirements established the statutory regulator. Apart from the 

 regulation of members, market surveillance carried on by stock 

 exchanges in certain jurisdictions regulates issuers. They do so by ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:23 ::: VBC 77 wp213.11

 ensuring that the stocks of issuers are reliably traded and that 

 
 issuers meet standards of corporate governance. In exercising 

 
 these powers, stock exchanges may face issues involving a conflict 

 of interest. Such conflicts of interest have to be handled and 

 
 addressed effectively within the regulatory framework. 52. Stock exchanges as institutional mechanisms have an 
 
 important role to play in ensuring the stability of the financial and 

 economic system. The orderly functioning of the market for 
 
 securities is no longer a matter of a private concern, for those who 

 transact on the market. The market for securities can be volatile. Transactions in the securities' market and the transparency of 
 

 institutional mechanisms have a significant bearing on the wealth 

 of investors. Inflows and outflows of capital from the stock market 

 have an immediate and, often serious, impact on financial stability 

 in the country. The orderly functioning of stock exchanges as 

 institutions through which transactions in securities take place is a 

 matter of public interest. The regulatory powers which have been 

 conferred upon SEBI to recognise stock exchanges must be 

 understood in the context of ensuring the protection of investors on ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:23 ::: VBC 78 wp213.11

 one hand and the public interest that is involved on the other. SEBI is an expert regulatory body which is vested with the power to 

 
 direct and regulate the functioning of stock exchanges. SEBI, as a 

 regulatory authority, is vested with wide powers to ensure the 

 
 protection of the interest of investors and the orderly development 

 of the securities market. Ensuring the proper management of 

 
 stock exchanges is a matter which falls within the regulatory 
 
 framework which SEBI directs. Where the affairs of a recognized 

 stock exchange are conducted in a manner detrimental to the 
 
 interest of the investors or the securities market, it has 

 consequences not just for the stock holders in the market, but for 
 

 the financial stability of the nation. Stock exchanges are the first 
 

 frontiers of regulation, for it is their duty to ensure, in the first 

 instance, that transactions are conducted in a transparent manner 

 and in accordance with the rules and regulations and bye laws that 

 have been approved. Their duty to report to SEBI is an adjunct of 

 the power conferred upon SEBI to regulate. 53. Historically, stock exchanges were controlled by trading 

 members. It was the report of the Kania Committee which brought ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:23 ::: VBC 79 wp213.11

 to bear public focus upon the need to corporatise and demutualise 

 
 stock exchanges and to ensure that their ownership is not 

 
 concentrated in the hands of a single entity or groups of related 

 entities. Sections 4A and 4B of the SCRA enabled SEBI to put into 

 
 place a mechanism of separation of ownership and control of stock 

 exchanges from trading members by implementing a scheme for 

 
 corporatisation and demutualisation. Conflicts of interest of 
 
 trading members were sought to be obviated by ensuring a 

 disassociation between members who trade on the exchange and 
 
 control over the ownership of the exchange. The MIMPS 

 Regulations were made applicable to recognised stock exchanges in 
 

 respect of which such a scheme has been approved under Section 
 

 4B by SEBI. A stock exchange, such as the Petitioner, had no 

 trading members as such, but SEBI considered it appropriate as an 

 expert body to avoid discrimination against old stock exchanges 

 which were established prior to the enforcement of the Regulations 

 by importing a requirement of compliance with the Regulations as 

 a condition for the recognition of the Petitioner. VBC 80 wp213.11

 VI : Regulation 4 and Regulation 8 54. Regulation 8 provides a restriction against the holding of 

 
 more than five per cent of the equity share capital in a recognized 

 stock exchange by a person resident in India directly or indirectly 

 
 either individually or together with persons acting in concert. Regulation 4 also provides for the manner of increasing the public 

 
 shareholding so as to ensure that at least 51% of the equity share 
 
 capital is held by the public. Regulation 8 which contains a 

 restriction on the holding of shares does not expressly incorporate 
 
 the provisions of Regulation 4 in regard to the manner in which a 

 reduction of the shareholding has to be brought about to ensure 
 

 compliance with the five per cent norm. The order passed by the 
 

 Whole Time Member proceeds on the basis that compliance with 

 one of the modes specified in Regulation 4 is the only acceptable 

 method for bringing about conformity with Regulation 8 . SEBI in 

 the course of its oral and written submissions also accedes to the 

 position that Regulation 8 , unlike Regulation 4 , does not specify 

 the manner in which shareholding should be reduced to below the 

 specified threshold. VBC 81 wp213.11 55. SEBI, however, suggests that one would ordinarily expect 

 
 the modes specified in Regulation 4 to be followed for the purposes 

 
 of Regulation 8 , even though they are not mandatory. Now, all the 

 modes which are provided for in Regulation 4 may not be 

 
 applicable to a situation involved such as in the case of the 

 Petitioner. Among the modes which are specified, are an offer for 

 
 sale of shares held by shareholders having trading rights; the 
 
 placement of shares held by shareholders having trading rights to 

 such persons or institutions as may be shortlisted by the exchange 
 
 with the approval of SEBI. The third mode is the issue of equity 

 shares on private placement basis by a stock exchange to any 
 
 

 person or group of persons not being shareholders having trading 

 rights or their associates. In a stock exchange having no 

 shareholders with trading rights, the modes specified in clauses (a) 

 and (b) of Regulation 4 would have no application. Hence, the 

 issue as to whether there is compliance with the provisions of Regulation 8 must be determined on the basis of whether there is, 

 in fact, a genuine divestment of shares held in excess of five per 

 cent by a person resident, directly or indirectly or together with 

 persons acting in concert. VBC 82 wp213.11

 
 VII : The process of dilution 56. Now, in the present case, on 12 August 2008, the 

 shareholding structure of the Petitioner at the time of the 

 
 application for recognition was one where MCX held 51%, while 

 FTIL held 49%. The two promoters of the Petitioner, MCX and FTIL 

 
 respectively held the entire equity capital. As on 30 September 
 
 2009, the shareholding structure of the Petitioner after the sale 

 (accompanied by the buy back agreements) to PNB, IL&FS and IFCI 
 
 reflected a shareholding of MCX at 38.31% and of FTIL at 35.05%. The holding of IFCI was 4.27%, that of PNB at 2.97% and of IL&FS 
 

 at 2.63%. The rest of the share capital was held by the Banks. On 
 

 30 November 2009, the shareholding pattern of the Petitioner, 

 prior to the scheme of reduction reflected the holding of MCX at 

 37.03% and of FTIL at 33.89%. On 31 March 2010, the 

 shareholding structure of the Petitioner after the scheme of 

 reduction-cum-arrangement was such that the shareholding of 

 MCX and FTIL was reduced to five per cent each. In addition, MCX 

 was allotted 63.41 crore warrants and FTIL was alloted 56.24 crore 

 warrants. VBC 83 wp213.11 57. The Whole Time Member of SEBI in his impugned order 

 
 has held that: VIII : Issuance of Share Warrants 58. The Petition which was filed before the Company Judge 

 under Sections 391 to 394 read with Sections 100 to 103 of the 

 Companies' Act, 1956 on 18 December 2009, envisaged that in 

 order to comply with the provisions of Regulation 8(1) , the 

 Petitioner was implementing a scheme of capital restructuring so 

 that the voting rights of the promoters and their equity stake would 

 be brought down to five per cent each. The scheme envisages that 

 warrants would be issued to the shareholders, who are subject to ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:23 ::: VBC 84 wp213.11

 the scheme of capital reduction, namely, MCX, FTIL and IL&FS. Each warrant would entitle the holder to subscribe to one equity 

 
 share at any time after six months from the date of issue and an 

 option to that effect could be exercised after six months from the 

 
 date of allotment. The warrants were, however, not to carry any 

 voting rights. Clause 2.4 of the scheme provided that the exercise 

 
 of the warrant would be subject to the Regulations. 59. By a letter dated 21 December 2009, SEBI was informed 
 
 of the Scheme. The letter intimated SEBI that (i) Post reduction, 

 the shareholding of the two promoters would not be in excess of 
 

 five per cent; (ii) The two promoters and another shareholder, a 
 

 financial institution whose equity shares were being extinguished 

 would to the extent of equity capital being extinguished be allotted 

 an equal number of warrants; and (iii) The promoters once having 

 reduced their shareholding to five per cent shall not be permitted 

 to increase their shareholding beyond the limit specified in the 

 MIMPS Regulations. 60. During the pendency of the earlier Writ Petition before 

 this Court, a statement was made on behalf of the two promoters ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:23 ::: VBC 85 wp213.11

 before the Division Bench on 10 August 2010 that Board 

 
 resolutions would be passed to ensure that the promoters would 

 
 not increase their shareholding beyond the limit specified in the 

 MIMPS Regulations. Following this, Board resolutions were passed 

 
 of both the promoters on 11 August 2010 and 17 August 2010. Copies of the Board's resolutions were furnished to SEBI on 20 

 
 August 2010. Both the resolutions were before SEBI much prior to 
 
 the passing of the impugned order dated 23 September 2010. 61. The position on the record, therefore, is that as a result 

 of the scheme of reduction which was put into place, the 
 

 shareholding of the two promoters was brought down to five per 
 

 cent each. Each of the two promoters was allotted warrants in lieu 

 of the share capital which was reduced. The warrants were not to 

 carry any voting rights. Under the warrants, the promoters were 

 conferred with an option to obtain the allotment of equity shares 

 after the expiry of six months. The promoters, by the resolutions 

 passed by their Board of Directors, resolved that the exercise of the 

 option under the warrants shall not be carried out to exceed the 

 limit prescribed in the MIMPS Regulations. In pursuance of the ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:23 ::: VBC 86 wp213.11

 statement which was made before the Division Bench of this Court 

 
 that the promoters would pass Board resolutions to ensure that 

 
 they would not increase their shareholding beyond the limit 

 prescribed in the MIMPS Regulations, resolutions were, in fact, 

 
 passed and intimated to SEBI. Having regard to this undisputed 

 background, it is not possible to accept the finding of the Whole 

 
 Time Member that the issuance of warrants to the two promoters is 
 
 a device which would result in a restoration of their holding 

 beyond the limit prescribed by the MIMPS Regulations. A mere 
 
 possibility of what may happen is hypothetical, as the Supreme 

 Court has held and cannot result in the invalidation of a 
 

 transaction which is otherwise lawful. ( Hindustan Lever 
 

 Employees' Union vs. Hindustan Lever Ltd. ).18 The aspect as to 

 whether the promoters can be regarded as persons acting in 

 concert, will be dealt with separately. 62. Having regard to this finding, the submission which has 

 been urged on behalf of the Fourth Respondent by Counsel, to the 

 effect that the scheme when sanctioned, became binding on SEBI 

 18 (1995) Suppl. 1 SCC 499 ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:23 ::: VBC 87 wp213.11

 and would be res judicata of all issues involved in the Petition 

 
 assumes subsidiary significance. A scheme under Section 391 of 

 
 the Companies' Act, 1956 has statutory force and binds the 

 creditors and shareholders of the Company. SEBI is not a creditor 

 
 of the Company. SEBI, as a matter of fact, was not heard in the 

 Company Petition. There can be no dispute about the principle of 

 
 law that the powers of the Company Court, when it sanctions a 
 
 scheme under Sections 391 to 393 of the Companies' Act, 1956, are 

 wide. Before sanctioning a scheme, though approved by a majority 
 
 of the creditors or members, the Court has to be satisfied that the 

 Company or any other person moving the application for sanction, 
 
 

 has disclosed all the relevant matters. The Court has to determine 

 whether the scheme is fair, just and reasonable and is not contrary 

 to the provisions of law or of public policy. The Court would not 

 countenance a scheme which is unconscionable or illegal or which 

 is otherwise unfair and unjust to the class of shareholders or 

 creditors for whom it is meant. ( Mihir H.Mafatlal vs. Mafatlal 

 Industries Ltd. )19 Once the scheme is sanctioned, it would bind 

 even the dissenting minority shareholders or creditors. (S.K. Gupta 

 19 (1997) 1 SCC 579 ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:23 ::: VBC 88 wp213.11

 vs. K.P. Jain,20 and N.A.P. Allagiri Raja vs. N.Guruswamy.21 

 
 Consequently, when the Company Court sanctions the scheme, the 

 
 fairness of the scheme qua them has also to be borne in mind. The 

 point, however, to note is that SEBI as a regulatory authority is 

 
 entitled in law to determine as to whether the provisions of the 

 MIMPS Regulations as a condition subject to which recognition 

 
 has been granted, have been complied with. The power of SEBI to 
 
 do so as an expert regulatory body acting within the domain of its 

 own statutory functions is not abrogated by the sanction which was 
 
 granted by the Company Court. The scheme of arrangement-cum- reduction was also a scheme under Section 100 . Such a scheme, 
 

 as well, will not dilute or abrogate the statutory powers of SEBI to 
 

 exact compliance with the statutory provisions, the enforcement of 

 which SEBI can oversee. IX : Buy back arrangements 63. The next aspect of the case which is required to be 

 considered relates to the buy back agreements. PNB by its letter 

 dated 20 July 2009 recorded the terms of the buy back agreements. Under the agreement, FTIL or its nominees was conferred with the 

 
 right to buy back shares of PNB at any time after the expiry of one 

 
 year from the date of investment. By a letter dated 19 August 2010 

 addressed to SEBI by PNB, it was stated that after the scheme was 

 
 sanctioned by the Company Court, and keeping in mind the MIMPS 

 Regulations, PNB's arrangement with regard to the buy back stood 

 
 "implicitly extinguished" since the promoter could not hold more 
 
 than five per cent of the equity shares. 64. On 20 August 2009, a Share Purchase Agreement was 

 entered into between the Petitioner and MCX on the one hand and 
 

 IL&FS Financial Services Ltd. (IL & FS) on the other for the sale of 
 

 4.42 crore shares of MCX for a consideration of Rs. 159.12 crores 

 with a further option to purchase an additional 1.80 crore shares. Prior to the Scheme of Reduction, the shareholding of IL&FS in the 

 Petitioner was 2.54% of the equity capital. As a result of the 

 Scheme of Reduction, the holding of IL&FS would have increased 

 to 8.13% of the equity capital of the Petitioner. Consequently, 

 under the Scheme of reduction IL&FS was to be allotted 1.70 crore 

 warrants. Upon the Scheme of Arrangement-cum-Reduction, the ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:23 ::: VBC 90 wp213.11

 shareholding of IL&FS was brought down to five per cent, in 

 
 addition to which, IL&FS held 1.70 crore warrants. 65. On 20 August 2009, IL&FS entered into a buy back 

 
 agreement with La-Fin Financial Services Pvt. Ltd. (La Fin). The 

 terms of the buy back agreement stipulated that La-Fin or its 

 
 nominees would be under an obligation to purchase back the 
 
 shares at any time after the completion of one year from the date 

 of investment and no later than three years. On 14 December 
 
 2009, MCX addressed a letter to IL&FS seeking approval of the 

 Scheme of Reduction, but confirmed that this would not be 
 

 construed as a dilution of the terms of the Share Purchase 
 

 Agreement and of the letter issued by La-Fin. On 11 August 2010, 

 IL&FS addressed a communication to SEBI reaffirming that the buy 

 back agreement was alive and was intended to be enforced. 66. There are two aspects in relation to the buy back 

 agreement upon which there is a dispute. The first relates to the 

 non-disclosure of the buy back agreement. The second relates to 

 whether the buy back agreement is a forward contract in violation ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:23 ::: VBC 91 wp213.11

 of the provisions of the SCRA. X : Duty of disclosure 67. The fact that the buy back agreement was not initially 

 
 disclosed to SEBI is not in dispute. The submission which has been 

 urged on behalf of the Fourth Respondent is that the non- disclosure of the buy back arrangement had no effect on the 
 
 decision and the existence of such an arrangement was an 

 irrelevant factor in the determination. 68. We are unable to accept the submission that a fair, 
 

 candid and complete disclosure to SEBI would not require a 
 

 disclosure in respect of the buy back arrangement. The object and 

 purpose of the divestment of shares of the promoters was to ensure 

 compliance with Regulation 8 of the MIMPS Regulations. If in the 

 process of divestment, the promoters were under an obligation to 

 offer to buy back the shares on the completion of a period 

 stipulated, that is a matter which ought to have been brought to 

 the notice of SEBI. The submission which has been urged on 

 behalf of the promoters is that the buy back would not necessarily ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:24 ::: VBC 92 wp213.11

 result in the promoters exceeding the shareholding limit of five per 

 
 cent in the equity capital of the Petitioner. It was submitted that, 

 
 for instance, it would be open to the promoters to ensure 

 continued compliance with the MIMPS Regulations despite the 

 
 exercise of the option under the buy back agreements by (i) 

 increasing the equity capital; or (ii) causing the purchase of shares 

 
 to be effected by an independent nominee. Hence, it was urged 
 
 that the buy back agreements would not foreclose the possibility of 

 MIMPS compliance in the future despite the exercise of the buy 
 
 back option. That, in our view, did not absolve the Petitioner to 

 make a full disclosure before SEBI that while compliance with Regulation 8 was being fulfilled by a divestment of shares, yet buy 
 

 back agreements were entered into. The basic purpose underlying Regulation 8 is to ensure that no resident should own whether 

 directly or indirectly with any other persons acting in concert, more 

 than five per cent of the equity capital of a recognised stock 

 exchange. Where the promoters hold more than five per cent of the 

 equity capital, the divestment of their excess holding, so as to bring 

 them in compliance with Regulation 8 , must be genuine. The fact 

 that the divestment of the shares held by a promoter in a stock ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:24 ::: VBC 93 wp213.11

 exchange is accompanied by a buy back agreement is a material 

 
 circumstance which must be disclosed to SEBI. On 21 July 2010, 

 
 SEBI addressed a letter to the Petitioner adverting to a news article 

 published on 19 July 2010, stating that the promoters of the 

 
 Petitioner had entered into buy back agreements with the Banks 

 who are shareholders of the Petitioner. In a reply dated 2 August 

 
 2010, the Petitioner informed SEBI that FTIL, as its promoter, had 
 
 issued a letter of comfort dated 12 August 2009 to PNB without 

 entering into a formal binding buy back agreement or shareholding 
 
 agreement. It was stated that once the Scheme of Reduction was 

 approved, the letter addressed by FTIL to PNB became infructuous 
 

 and irrelevant. The Petitioner stated that it has complied with the 
 

 MIMPS Regulations by virtue of the Scheme as approved and the 

 shareholding of FTIL and MCX stood reduced to five per cent with 

 no right to acquire even a single share in violation of limit 

 prescribed by MIMPS Regulations. Even at that stage, there was no 

 reference to the buy back agreement which was entered into with 

 IL&FS. On this aspect of the matter, we are unable to accept the 

 contention of the Petitioner and of the Third and Fourth 

 Respondents that the existence of the buy back agreements was a ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:24 ::: VBC 94 wp213.11

 circumstance which was irrelevant and was not required to be 

 
 disclosed to SEBI. 69. The relationship between a Stock Exchange and SEBI 

 
 must be founded in trust and good faith. Both constitute important 

 limbs of the regulatory framework, SEBI is the cornerstone in 

 
 ensuring regulatory compliance. Mandating full disclosure of 
 
 compliance requirements is necessary in order to ensure 

 transparent and accountable governance. Stock Exchanges cannot 
 
 maintain a cloak of secrecy over their affairs and management, 

 particularly when they are required to conform to regulatory 
 

 standards. Allowing a regime of secrecy and permitting Exchanges 
 

 to suppress information from SEBI will encourage a culture of 

 nepotism. The MIMPS Regulations subserve an important objective 

 based on the public interest in protecting investors and in an 

 orderly market for securities. Full disclosure of compliance actions 

 is a necessary element in that process. XI : Legality of the Buy back agreements: 70. The order passed by the Whole Time Member of SEBI ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:24 ::: VBC 95 wp213.11

 holds that the buy back agreements are forward contracts and are 

 
 not lawful arrangements under the SCRA. 71. Section 13 of the SCRA provides that if the Central 

 
 Government is satisfied, having regard to the nature or the volume 

 of transactions in securities in any State or area, that it is necessary 

 
 so to do, it may, by a notification, declare the section to apply to 
 
 such State or area and "thereupon every contract ... which is 

 entered after the date of the notification otherwise than between 
 
 the members of a recognized stock exchange ... shall be illegal". Section 2(h) defines the expression "securities" to include shares, 
 

 scrips, stocks, bonds, debentures, debenture stock, or other 
 

 marketable securities of a like nature in or of any incorporated 

 company or other body corporate. Section 16 empowers the 

 Central Government to declare, where it is of opinion that it is 

 necessary to prevent undesirable speculation in specified securities, 

 that no person in the State or area specified shall, save with the 

 permission of the Central Government, enter into any contract for 

 the sale or purchase of any security specified in the notification 

 except to the extent and in the manner specified therein. Sub- VBC 96 wp213.11

 section (2) provides that all contracts entered into in contravention 

 
 of the provisions of sub-section (1) shall be illegal. 72. In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-section (1) of Section 16 , the Central Government by a notification dated 27 

 June 1969 declared that save with its permission, no person shall 

 
 enter into any contract for the sale or purchase of any security 
 
 other than such spot delivery contract or a contract for cash or 

 hand delivery or special delivery in any security as is permissible 
 
 under the Act and the Rules, Bye-laws and Regulations of a 

 recognized stock exchange. On 1 March 2000, the earlier 
 

 notification was rescinded and a fresh notification was issued by 
 

 which it has been declared that no person shall save with the 

 permission of SEBI enter into any contract for the sale or purchase 

 of securities other than a spot delivery contract or a contract for 

 cash or hand delivery or special delivery or a contract in derivatives 

 as is permissible under the SCRA or the SEBI Act, 1992 ; and the 

 Rules and Regulations made under those Acts and the Rules and 

 Regulations and Bye-laws of a recognized stock exchange. A spot 

 delivery contract is defined in Section 2(i) of the SCRA to mean a ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:24 ::: VBC 97 wp213.11

 contract which provides for actual delivery of securities and the 

 
 payment of the price either on the same day as the date of the 

 
 contract or on the next day, the actual period taken for the 

 dispatch of the securities or the remittance of money through post 

 
 being excluded if the parties do not reside in the same town or 

 locality. The definition also covers a transfer of securities by a 

 
 depository from the account of a beneficial owner to the account of 
 
 another beneficial owner when securities are dealt with by a 

 depository. 73. The impugned order proceeds on the basis that the buy 
 

 back agreement is a forward contract and, is therefore, illegal. Now, before we deal with the question of law, it must be noted at 

 the outset that in the course of the submission, the Additional 

 Solicitor General of India has not supported the ground that the 

 buy back agreements constitute forward contracts. An alternate 

 submission was sought to be urged that the buy back agreements 

 were actually option contracts or derivatives and were, therefore, 

 illegal under Section 18A of the SCRA. The finding as to illegality 

 was sought to be sustained on the basis of a ground which was ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:24 ::: VBC 98 wp213.11

 neither raised in the notice to show cause, nor in the impugned 

 
 order of the Whole Time Member. Whether such a submission 

 
 should be permitted to be urged at this stage would be considered 

 separately. But, it merits emphasis that the basis and foundation 

 
 on which the buy back agreements were construed as being illegal - on the ground of these being forward contracts - does not find 

 
 support in the oral submissions urged by the Learned Additional 
 
 Solicitor General or in the written submissions. 74. Now, it is in this background that the finding of illegality 

 in the impugned order must be assessed. The buy back agreements 
 

 furnish to PNB and IL&FS an option. The option constitutes a 
 

 privilege, the exercise of which depends upon their unilateral 

 volition. In the case of PNB, the buy back agreements 

 contemplated a buy back by FTIL after the expiry of a stipulated 

 period. But, in the event that PNB still asserted that it would 

 continue to hold the shares, despite the buy back offer, FTIL or its 

 nominees would have no liability for buying back the shares in 

 future. In the case of IL&FS, La-Fin assumed an obligation to offer 

 to purchase either through itself or its nominee the shares which ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:24 ::: VBC 99 wp213.11

 were sold to IL&FS after the expiry of a stipulated period. In both 

 
 cases, the option to sell rested in the unilateral decision of PNB 

 
 and IL&FS, as the case may be. 75. In a buy back agreement of the nature involved in the 

 present case, the promissor who makes an offer to buy back shares 

 
 cannot compel the exercise of the option by the promisee to sell the 
 
 shares at a future point in time. If the promisee declines to 

 exercise the option, the promissor cannot compel performance. A 
 
 concluded contract for the sale and purchase of shares comes into 

 existence only when the promisee upon whom an option is 
 

 conferred, exercises the option to sell the shares. Hence, an option 
 

 to purchase or repurchase is regarded as being in the nature of a 

 privilege. 76. In V.Pechimuthu vs. Gowrammal,22 Mrs.Justice Ruma 

 Pal, speaking for a Bench of the Supreme Court explained the 

 nature of an option or privilege thus: (Halsbury's Laws of England, 3rd Edn., Vol.3, Art.281, p. 165) 13. An agreement for sale and purchase 
 

 simpliciter, on the other hand, is a reciprocal 
 arrangement imposing obligations and benefits on both 
 

 parties and is enforceable at the instance of either." 77. The distinction between an option to purchase or 

 repurchase and an agreement for sale and purchase simpliciter lies 

 in the fact that the former is by its nature dependent on the 

 discretion of the person who is granted the option whereas the 

 latter is a reciprocal arrangement imposing obligations and benefits 

 on the promissor and the promisee. The performance of an option ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:24 ::: VBC 101 wp213.11

 cannot be compelled by the person who has granted the option. Contrariwise in the case of an agreement, performance can be 

 
 elicited at the behest of either of the parties. In the case of an 

 option, a concluded contract for purchase or repurchase arises only 

 
 if the option is exercised and upon the exercise of the option. Under the notification that has been issued under the SCRA, a 

 
 contract for the sale or purchase of securities has to be a spot 
 
 delivery contract or a contract for cash or hand delivery or special 

 delivery. In the present case, the contract for sale or purchase of 
 
 the securities would fructify only upon the exercise of the option by 

 PNB or, as the case may be, IL&FS in future. If the option were not 
 

 to be exercised by them, no contract for sale or purchase of 
 

 securities would come into existence. Moreover, if the option were 

 to be exercised, there is nothing to indicate that the performance of 

 the contract would be by anything other than by a spot delivery, 

 cash or special delivery. Where securities are dealt with by a 

 depository, the transfer of securities by a depository from the 

 account of a beneficial owner to another beneficial owner is within 

 the ambit of spot delivery. VBC 102 wp213.11 78. Reliance is sought to be placed by the Additional 

 
 Solicitor General on a decision of Chief Justice M.C.Chagla, 

 
 speaking for a Division Bench in Jethalal P.Thakkar vs. R.N. 

 Kapur.23 In that case, an undertaking was furnished by the 

 
 Defendant to the Plaintiff to sell off for the Plaintiff a stipulated 

 quantity of shares of a Bank at a specified price within twelve 

 
 months from the date on which the Bank was converted into a 
 
 Financial Corporation and if at the end of twelve months, the 

 Defendant was not able to sell off the shares for the Plaintiff, the 
 
 Defendant accepted the obligation to take delivery of those shares 

 against the payment of a stipulated amount to the Plaintiff without 
 

 interest. The Defendant failed to sell off the shares within the time 
 

 stipulated upon which the Plaintiff sued for damages on the 

 strength of the contract. In that case, the provisions of the Bombay 

 Securities Control Contract Act, 1925 came up for consideration. The Act defined a ready delivery contract as a contract for the 

 purchase or sale of securities for the performance of which no time 

 is specified and which is to be performed immediately or within a 

 reasonable time. The contention of the Plaintiff was that this was a 

 23 AIR 1956 Bombay 74 ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:24 ::: VBC 103 wp213.11

 ready delivery contract and, therefore, was lawful. If the contract 

 
 was not a ready delivery contract, it would be void under Section 

 
 6 of the Act of 1925. Chief Justice Chagla held that on a plain 

 reading of the contract, it was clear that no obligation attached 

 
 with regard to the purchase of the shares on the part of the 

 Defendant until the contingency contemplated occurred after a 

 
 lapse of twelve months. The Learned Chief Justice held that: The contract in that case was held to fall in the second category 

 and it was held that this was not a case where a present obligation 

 was created but parties had agreed to postpone the performance. If on the date when the contract was entered into, there was no 

 contract for sale or purchase of the shares, it was impossible to 

 suggest that on that date the contract was void because it came 

 within the mischief of the Act. The Court held that the intention 

 of the parties was that there would be a contract for the purchase ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:24 ::: VBC 104 wp213.11

 or sale on the occurring of a contingency and as soon as the 

 
 obligation ripened and a contract subsisted between them that 

 
 contract was to be performed immediately or within a reasonable 

 time. The suit filed by the Plaintiff was, therefore, held not to be 

 
 rendered bad by reason of the provisions of the Bombay Act . The 

 judgment of a Learned Single Judge in Niskalp Investments and 

 
 Trading Company Ltd. vs. Hinduja TMT Ltd.,24 has been 
 
 rendered on a Summons for Judgment in a Summary Suit in which 

 the Learned Judge granted unconditional leave to defend, and does 
 
 not advance the discourse. 79. The ambit of the expression "securities" in Section 2(h) of the SCRA has fallen for determination in several judgments of 

 this Court. Would the expression cover listed and unlisted 

 securities? The issue, as would be noted hereinafter, has been 

 settled in a judgment of the Supreme Court. In Dahiben 

 Umedbhai Patel vs. Norman James Hamilton,25 a Division Bench 

 of this Court held that the definition of 'securities' requires 

 marketability which the shares of a private Company do not 

 24 (2008) 143 Com.Cases 204 Bom. possess and hence, that expression will only take in shares of a 

 
 public limited company. In Brooke Bond India Ltd. vs. U.B.Ltd.,26 a Learned Single Judge of this Court held prima facie at the 

 hearing of a motion for interlocutory relief that a transaction of 

 
 shares of a public limited Company unlisted on the stock exchange 

 is not intended to be governed by the SCRA. In Mysore Fruit 

 
 Products Ltd. vs. The Custodian,27 another Learned Single Judge 
 
 held that the forward sale of shares even of public limited 

 Companies which are not listed on the stock exchange are 
 
 prohibited by the SCRA. This aspect of the controversy is now 

 resolved by the decision of the Supreme Court in Naresh 
 

 K.Aggarwalla & Co. vs. Canbank Financial Services Ltd.28 The Supreme Court observed that the definition of the expression 

 "securities" in Section 2(h)(i) does not make any distinction 

 between listed securities and unlisted securities and the notification 

 dated 27 June 1969 issued under Section 16 of the SCRA will also 

 apply to the securities which are not listed on the stock exchange. Finally, it will be necessary to advert to the decision of the 

 26 (1994) 3 Comp.LJ. 279 (Bom.)
 27 (2005) 107 Bom.L.R. 955
 28 (2010) 6 SCC 178 ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:24 ::: VBC 106 wp213.11

 Supreme Court in Bank of India Finance Ltd. vs. The 

 
 Custodian.29 In that case, the Appellant Bank had entered into a 

 
 contract with different brokers for the purchase and sale of certain 

 securities which were not listed on any stock exchange. The 

 
 transaction consisted of two legs. The first or the ready leg 

 consisted of purchase or sale of certain securities at a specified 

 
 price and the second or forward leg consisted of the sale or 
 
 purchase of the same or similar securities at a later date at a price 

 determined on the first date. The ready leg of the transaction was 
 
 completed with the Appellant paying the agreed price and 

 receiving delivery of the securities which were agreed to be 
 

 purchased. Before the forward leg of the transaction would be 
 

 completed, the Special Court Ordinance was issued on 6 June 1992 

 which was replaced by an Act. The Custodian filed an application 

 before the Special Court contending that such ready forward 

 transactions were illegal inter alia under the SCRA and the 

 securities which were sold to the Appellant in the ready leg 

 continued to be in law the properties of the notified persons on the 

 date when they were notified under the Act. The Supreme Court 

 29 AIR 1997 SC 1952 ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:24 ::: VBC 107 wp213.11

 held that the valid part or the ready leg of the transaction has been 

 
 completed while the invalid part of the forward leg has to be 

 
 ignored. What the notification under Section 16 was held to 

 prohibit is the entering into of a forward contract that is a sale at a 

 
 future date for a fixed price. This latter part of the agreement 

 could not have been entered into, but was clearly severable and 

 
 would not affect the transaction which has already taken place at 
 
 the time of the execution of the ready leg. The decision of the 

 Supreme Court in Bank of India Finance therefore, dealt with a 
 
 situation where the ready leg of the contract had been duly fulfilled 

 while the forward leg had remained to be performed. The latter, 
 

 involving a contract for the purchase and sale of shares in future at 
 

 a specified price was a ready forward contract and was unlawful. 80. In the present case, there is no contract for the sale and 

 purchase of shares. A contract for the purchase or sale of the 

 shares would come into being only at a future point of time in the 

 eventuality of the party which is granted an option exercising the 

 option in future. Once such an option is exercised, the contract 

 would be completed only by means of spot delivery or by a mode ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:24 ::: VBC 108 wp213.11

 which is considered lawful. Hence, the basis and foundation of 

 
 the order which is that there was a forward contract which is 

 
 unlawful at its inception is lacking in substance. 81. The Learned Additional Solicitor General, however, 

 sought to sustain the finding of illegality by submitting that the buy 

 
 back agreements constitute an option in securities within the 
 
 meaning of Section 2(1)(d) and derivatives under Section 2(ac) of 

 the SCRA and are violative of the provisions of Section 18A. Section 18A stipulates that notwithstanding anything contained in 

 any other law for the time being in force, contracts in derivatives 
 

 shall be legal and valid if such contracts are traded in a recognised 
 

 stock exchange in accordance with the rules and bye laws of such 

 exchange. It has been urged that as the buy back agreements were 

 not entered into on a recognized stock exchange, they are illegal. Moreover, no permission was obtained from SEBI in respect of such 

 option (derivative) as required by the notification dated 1 March 

 2000. On this aspect, we find merit in the submission urged on 

 behalf of the Petitioner and by Counsel for the Third and Fourth 

 Respondents that this contention which is urged on behalf of SEBI ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:24 ::: VBC 109 wp213.11

 has been raised for the first time during the course of the oral 

 
 arguments in Court. The contention was not a part of the notice 

 
 to show cause, nor was it the basis of the order that was passed by 

 the Whole Time Member. Moreover, on 13 September 2011, SEBI 

 
 has issued a notice to show cause to the Petitioner stating that in 

 the alternative to the findings recorded in paragraphs 66 and 67 of 

 
 the order dated 23 September 2010 (those relating to the buy back 
 
 agreements being forward contracts and, therefore, unlawful) and 

 assuming that the buy back agreements are not in the nature of 
 
 forward contracts, they would amount to an option in securities 

 and, therefore, derivatives which were neither traded nor settled at 
 

 any recognized stock exchange nor with the permission of SEBI. They are consequently, stated to be in breach of the provisions of 

 Section 18A of the SCRA read with the notification dated 1 March 

 2000. The Petitioner has been called upon to show cause as to 

 why its application dated 13 June 2011 for the renewal of 

 recognition should not be rejected. Having regard to the fact that 

 SEBI has issued a notice to show cause to the Petitioner raising the 

 very ground which was sought to be urged in the alternative by the 

 Learned Additional Solicitor General, we are of the view that it is ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:24 ::: VBC 110 wp213.11

 manifestly inappropriate for this Court to render an adjudication 

 
 on the issue at this stage. That is even more so, because a violation 

 
 of the provisions of Section 18A on the basis that the buy back 

 agreements constitute options in securities or derivatives was not a 

 
 ground taken in the show cause notice which resulted in the 

 impugned order of the Whole Time Member, nor for that matter, 

 
 is it a ground in the impugned order itself. XII : Persons Acting in concert. 82. The impugned order contains a finding that MCX and 

 FTIL are persons acting in concert and consequently their 
 

 combined equity shareholding of ten per cent of the total equity 
 

 capital of the Petitioner is not in compliance with Regulation 8 of 

 the MIMPS Regulations. These findings have been challenged on 

 behalf of the Petitioner and a substantial area of submission has 

 covered the ambit and purview of Explanation (IV) to Regulation 8 . 83. Regulation 8 contains a bar on a person resident holding 

 directly or indirectly either individually or together with persons 

 acting in concert, more than five per cent of the equity share ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:24 ::: VBC 111 wp213.11

 capital of a recognized stock exchange. The expression "person 

 
 acting in concert" is defined in Explanation (IV) to have the 

 
 meaning "derived from" Regulation 2(1)(e) of the SEBI 

 (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 

 
 1997. Regulation 2(1)(e) of the Takeover Regulations defines the 

 expression "person acting in concert" as follows : Regulation 2(2) specifies that all other expressions unless defined 

 therein shall have the meaning assigned to them under the SEBI 

 Act, 1992 , the SCRA or the Companies' Act, 1956 . The expression ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:24 ::: VBC 112 wp213.11

 "control" is defined in Regulation 2(1)(c) as follows : 84. For the purpose of computing the ceiling on the holding 
 
 of equity share capital in a recognized stock exchange which is 

 fixed at five per cent, Regulation 8(1) requires the holding of the 
 
 person resident in India to be taken into account, whether held 

 directly or indirectly either individually or together with persons 
 

 acting in concert. While interpreting Regulation 8 a prefatory 
 

 point is that the ambit of the regulation has quite intentionally 

 been cast in wide terms. The object of the provision is to ensure 

 that a person or group of persons or related entities cannot control 

 voting rights in a stock exchange. In order to effectuate that 

 purpose an outside limit of five per cent on the equity holding of a 

 person resident has been imposed. The regulation seeks to ensure 

 that its provisions should not be diluted through an indirect 

 holding of shares and the use of the expression "directly or ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:24 ::: VBC 113 wp213.11

 indirectly" are indicative of the fact that the net of Regulation 8 is 

 
 set in wide terms. 85. The expression "persons acting in concert" is to have the 

 
 meaning derived from Regulation 2(1)(e) of the Takeover 

 Regulations. The expression "derive" means "to draw or receive, or 

 
 obtain as from a source or origin".30 The process of derivation is 
 
 to trace or show the origin. The act of deriving, it has been stated, 

 is immediate and direct and is perhaps distinguishable from an act 
 
 of tracing which may be a some what more gradual process. To 

 derive a meaning is to obtain that meaning from a source or origin. The source indicated in Explanation (IV) is Regulation 2(1)(e) of 
 

 the Takeover Regulations. 86. In construing the words of an explanation in a statute, it 

 must be borne in mind that while traditionally, the function of an 

 explanation is to explain the meaning of a word used in a statutory 

 provision or to clear up any doubt, ultimately the issue is one of 

 legislative intent. The position has been elucidated in the 

 30 P.Ramanatha Aiyar's The Law Lexicon, Second Edition, Reprint 2007 page 530 ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:24 ::: VBC 114 wp213.11

 judgment of the Supreme Court in Dattatraya Govind Mahajan 

 
 vs. State of Maharashtra,31 thus: 31 (1977) 2 SCC 548
 32 See in this context G.P.Singh's Principles of Statutory Interpretation pages 204 & 205 33 (1985) 1 SCC 591 at page 613 ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:24 ::: VBC 115 wp213.11 (d) an Explanation cannot in any way interfere with or 

 
 change the enactment or any part thereof but where 
 some gap is left which is relevant for the purpose of the 

 
 Explanation, in order to suppress the mischief and 
 advance the object of the Act it can help or assist the 
 Court in interpreting the true purport and intendment of 
 the enactment, and (e) it cannot, however, take away a statutory right with 
 which any person under a statute has been clothed or set 
 at naught the working of an Act by becoming an 

 
 hindrance in the interpretation of the same." Justice G.P.Singh in his seminal work on the Principles of Statutory 
 
 Interpretation observes that the meaning to be given to the 

 explanation will really depend upon its terms and not on any 
 

 theory as to its purpose.34 Indeed, as the Supreme Court has 
 

 observed in Mahajan (supra), the essential task in construing an 

 explanation is to deduce the legislative intent from the words used. 87. Prior to its amendment in 2008, Regulation 8(1) contained a reference both to the acquisition or holding of more 

 than five per cent in the paid up equity capital in a recognized 

 stock exchange. Following the amendment and the recasting of 

 34 Tenth Edition 2006 pg 205 ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:25 ::: VBC 116 wp213.11 Regulation 8 , the reference now is to the holding of not more than 

 
 five per cent of the equity share capital. In the Takeover 

 
 Regulations, Regulation 2(1)(e) defines the expression "person 

 acting in concert" in two parts. Clause (1) of Regulation 2(1)(e) refers to a situation where persons who, for a common objective or 

 purpose of substantial acquisition of shares or voting rights or 

 
 gaining control over the target Company, pursuant to an 
 
 agreement or understanding, formal or informal, directly or 

 indirectly cooperate by acquiring or agreeing to acquire shares or 
 
 voting rights in the target Company or control over the target 

 Company. The elements which go to comprise clause (1) of Regulation 2(1)(e) are: (i) A group of persons who share a 
 

 common object or purpose; (ii) The object or purpose is the 

 substantial acquisition of shares or voting rights or gaining control; (iii) The object or purpose must be referable to a target Company; (iv) Such persons must act in pursuance of an agreement or 

 understanding, though the agreement or understanding may be 

 formal or informal; (v) Pursuant to the agreement or 

 understanding, there must be cooperation between those persons 

 directly or indirectly by acquiring or agreeing to acquire shares or ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:25 ::: VBC 117 wp213.11

 voting rights in the target Company or control over the target 

 
 Company. 88. The existence of a common object or purpose is an 

 
 essential requirement of Regulation 2(1)(e)(1) . In Daichi Sankyo 

 Company Limited vs. Jayaram Chigurupati,35 a Bench of three 

 
 Learned Judges of the Supreme Court while interpreting the 
 
 provisions of Regulation 2(1)(e)(1) emphasised the requirement 

 that there must exist a target Company on the one hand, and the 
 
 coming together of two or more persons with a shared common 

 objective or purpose on the other hand. This emerges from the 
 

 following observations: 49. The other limb of the concept requires two or 
 more persons joining together with the shared common 
 objective and purpose of substantial acquisition of shares 
 etc. of a certain target company. There can be no 

 
 "persons acting in concert" unless there is a shared 
 common objective or purpose between two or more 
 persons of substantial acquisition of shares etc. of the 
 target company. For, dehors the element of the shared 

 
 common objective or purpose the idea of "person acting 
 in concert" is as meaningless as criminal conspiracy 
 
 without any agreement to commit a criminal offence. 
 The idea of "persons acting in concert" is not about a 
 fortuitous relationship coming into existence by accident 
 
 or chance. The relationship can come into being only by 
 design, by meeting of minds between two or more 
 persons leading to the shared common objective or 
 purpose of acquisition of substantial acquisition of shares 
 

 etc. of the target company. It is another matter that the 
 common objective or purpose may be in pursuance of an 
 

 agreement or an understanding, formal or informal; the 
 acquisition of shares etc. may be direct or indirect or the 
 persons acting in concert may cooperate in actual 

 acquisition of shares etc. or they may agree to cooperate 
 in such acquisition. Nonetheless, the element of the 
 shared common objective or purpose is the sine qua non 
 for the relationship of "persons acting in concert" to come 
 into being." Hence, it is now a settled principle of law that the relationship 

 which the words "persons acting in concert" encompasses is one 

 which comes into being by design. The existence of this design ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:25 ::: VBC 119 wp213.11

 postulates a meeting of minds, the holding of a shared common 

 
 object or purpose, the existence of an understanding and the 

 
 implementation of that understanding in fulfilling the shared 

 purpose of acquiring shares or voting rights or gaining control over 

 
 the target Company. 89. A similar view has been taken in a judgment of a Division 
 
 Bench of this Court in K.K. Modi vs. Securities Appellate 

 Tribunal,36 where it has been held that "the mere fact that a 
 
 person is a promoter does not make him an acquirer, unless it is 

 shown that he either intends to acquire or is acting in concert with 
 

 the acquirer for the acquisition of shares of the target Company." In order to establish that a person is acting in concert, a common 

 objective or purpose must be shown to exist. 90. Clause (2) of Regulation 2(1)(e) raises a presumption in 

 which certain persons will be deemed to be persons acting in 

 concert with other persons in the same category unless the contrary 

 is established. The presumption in clause (2) is, rebuttable. Sub- clause (i) of Clause (2) refers to a Company, a holding Company or 

 
 subsidiary or such Company or Companies under the same 

 
 management either individually or together with each other. Regulation 2(2) stipulates that all other expressions unless defined 

 
 shall have the same meaning assigned to them inter alia under the Companies' Act, 1956 . Section 370(1B) of the Companies' Act, 

 
 1956 contains a deeming definition of when two bodies corporate 
 
 shall be deemed to be under the same management, those 

 situations being as follows: 91. The Additional Solicitor General submitted that since the 

 
 provisions of the Takeover Regulations have been incorporated by 

 reference into the MIMPS Regulations, the Court may make due 

 
 alterations in the details of Regulation 2(1)(e) based on the 
 
 context of the incorporating regulations. In Paresh Chandra 

 Chatterjee vs. The State of Assam,37 the Supreme Court held 
 
 while construing the provisions of the Assam Land (Requisition and 

 Acquisition) Act, 1948 , that the legislature having provided that 
 

 the provisions of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 , shall apply 
 

 mutatis mutandis in respect of a reference made to the Court under 

 the State Act, appropriate changes in the phraseology used in 

 Section 23 of the Central Act may have to be made to apply the 

 principles underlying those provisions to the state legislation. The 

 Additional Solicitor General urged that there is a difference in the 

 context and setting of the expression "persons acting in concert" 92. Now, it must be emphasized that Explanation (IV) to Regulation 8 provides that the expression "persons acting in 
 
 concert" shall have the meaning derived from Regulation 2(1)(e) of the Takeover Regulations. The meaning ascribed to the 
 
 expression "persons acting in concert" in Regulation 2(1)(e) is 

 unless the context otherwise requires. But, Explanation IV of Regulation 8 incorporates specifically the definition from Regulation 2(1)(e) of the Takeover Regulations. In deriving the 

 meaning of the expression "persons acting in concert" from the 

 Takeover Regulations and applying it in the context of the MIMPS 

 Regulations, it will be necessary for the Court to render the 

 expression workable having regard to the context in which the 

 term is used in the MIMPS Regulations. Regulation 8 of the 

 MIMPS Regulations, as it now stands, regulates the holding of 

 equity share capital of a recognized stock exchange. Though ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:25 ::: VBC 123 wp213.11 Regulation 8 prior to its amendment in 2008 regulated both the 

 
 acquisition and holding of paid up equity capital, the reference to 

 
 acquisition was deleted by the amendment. This is indicative of 

 the fact that the common purpose of the acquisition of shares may 

 
 not be relevant for the purposes of the MIMPS Regulations. Moreover, even the Takeover Regulations themselves contemplate 

 
 the use of the expression "persons acting in concert" in connection 
 
 with the holding of shares, such as in the provisions of Section 

 6(3) . At the same time, while the definition of the expression 
 
 "persons acting in concert" in the Takeover Regulations is to be 

 applied in a meaningful sense for the purpose of the MIMPS 
 

 Regulations, the essential ingredient of the expression is the 
 

 existence of a common objective. SEBI as a delegate of Parliament, 

 when it made the MIMPS Regulations, incorporated the definition 

 of the expression from the Takeover Regulations. SEBI would be 

 presumed to have known the ambit of that expression as used and 

 interpreted in the Takeover Regulations. When the meaning of the 

 expression "persons acting in concert" is derived from the Takeover 

 Regulations, the latter constitute the source of the meaning. The 

 essential attributes of the expression are those which are to be ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:25 ::: VBC 124 wp213.11

 found in the Takeover Regulations. In extrapolating the meaning 

 
 contained in the Takeover Regulations to the MIMPS Regulations, 

 
 the essential features of the meaning cannot be destroyed. The 

 process of extrapolation may legitimately involve necessary 

 
 changes in points of detail. To incorporate the meaning mutatis 

 mutandis may be permissible so as to adapt matters of detail to 

 
 impart effective content to the expression when it is used in the 
 
 context of the MIMPS Regulations. But that process must 

 necessarily adopt the heart and soul of the meaning and the 
 
 existence of a common object and purpose constitutes the essence 

 of the meaning of the expression "persons acting in concert". Regulation 8 is being applied to a situation where the promoters of 

 a stock exchange held the entire equity capital before the process of 

 divestment commenced. The mere fact that they are promoters is 

 not sufficient to hold that they are acting in concert for the purpose 

 of Regulation 8 . If such an extreme position of interpretation were 

 to be adopted, compliance with Regulation 8 norms would be 

 illusory in a situation where the original position is that the entire 

 share capital is held by promoters. Hence, the law requires 

 something more to establish a case of persons acting in concert. VBC 125 wp213.11

 The essential ingredients of the definition in Regulation 2(1)(e) must be fulfilled. 93. In Commissioner of Income Tax vs. East Coast 

 Commercial Co. Ltd.,38 the Supreme Court construed the 

 
 provisions of Section 23A of the Income Tax Act, 1922, while 
 
 analysing as to when it could be said that a Company is one in 

 which the public are substantially interested. By the Explanation to 
 
 Section 23A(1), it was enacted inter alia that a company shall be 

 deemed to be a company in which the public are substantially 
 

 interested if shares carrying not less than twenty-five per cent of 
 

 the voting power have been allotted to or acquired unconditionally 

 or are beneficially held by the public. Under Section 23A, the 

 Assessing Officer was required, if satisfied that the profits and gains 

 distributed as dividends by any company were less than sixty per 

 cent of the assessable income of that previous year, as reduced by 

 the income tax and super tax payable, to make an order that the 

 undistributed portion of the assessable income of the company 

 38 AIR 1967 SC 768 ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:25 ::: VBC 126 wp213.11

 shall be deemed to have been distributed as dividends among the 

 
 shareholders as at the date of the general meeting. This power 

 
 could not be exercised in respect of a company in which the public 

 are generally interested. The Supreme Court noted that the 

 
 Tribunal had to decide, in the first instance, whether there was a 

 group of persons acting in concert holding a sufficient number of 

 
 shares which may control the voting as a block. But the existence 
 
 of a block was held not to be decisive. The Supreme Court 

 adverted to its earlier decision in Commissioner of Income Tax 
 
 vs. Jubilee Mills Ltd.,39 where it was held that no direct evidence 

 and overt act of concert between the members of the group having 
 

 control over voting was necessary to prove that the Company is not 
 

 one in which the public is substantially interested. In Jubilee 

 Mills, the Supreme Court held that: While following this principle in East Coast Commercial (supra), 

 the Supreme Court applying this principle, held as follows: "It is the holding in the aggregate of a majority of the 
 shares issued by a person or persons acting in concert in 

 
 relation to the affairs of the Company which establishes 
 the existence of a block. It is sufficient, if having regard 

 
 to their relation etc., their conduct, and their common 
 interest, that it may be inferred that they must be acting 
 together; evidence of actual concerted acting is normally 
 difficult to obtain, and is not insisted upon." XIII : The validity of the impugned order. 94. In the notice to show cause that was issued to the 
 
 Petitioner, FTIl and MCX were regarded as persons acting in 
 
 concert on the basis of a letter dated 14 December 2009 addressed 

 by MCX to IL&FS and a letter dated 20 August 2009 addressed by 
 

 La-Fin to IL&FS Financial Services. Moreover, it was alleged that 
 

 FTIL and MCX are under the same management in terms of Regulation 2(1)(e)(2)(i) of the Takeover Regulations read with Section 370(1B) of the Companies' Act, 1956. Moreover, it was 

 alleged that FTIL as on 31 March 2010, held 31.18% of the equity 

 share capital of MCX and that by its dominant holding, FTIL is in 

 control of MCX. 95. There are two limbs to the finding which has been ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:25 ::: VBC 128 wp213.11

 arrived at by the Whole Time Member on the issue. First, the 

 
 impugned order adverts to the letters dated 20 August 2009, 

 
 addressed by La-Fin to IL&FS and to the letter dated 14 December 

 2009, addressed by MCX to IL&FS. The letter dated 20 August 

 
 2009, was addressed by La-Fin to IL&FS, following on a Share 

 Purchase Agreement signed between MCX, IL&FS and the 

 
 Petitioner on the same date. By the letter, La-Fin furnished an 
 
 undertaking to offer to purchase all the shares which under the 

 SPA were sold by MCX to IL&FS within a stipulated period. The 
 
 price at which the shares would be offered to be purchased would 

 be (i) a price providing an internal rate of return of 15% on 
 

 investment or the price at which the most recent transactions of the 
 

 equity shares of the Petitioner was carried out by the Petitioner or 

 by MCX or the FTIL group. Moreover, it was assured that in the 

 event that the Petitioner plans an initial public offering within one 

 year from the date of the investment, La-Fin covenanted that it 

 shall not proceed with the IPO in case the price at the IPO is less 

 than the buy back price. As promoter of the Petitioner, La-Fin 

 further assured that save and except for the issuance of the shares 

 of the Petitioner to some Banks and in terms of employees stock ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:25 ::: VBC 129 wp213.11

 option plans, the Petitioner shall not issue any share to any person 

 
 at a price below Rs.35/- per equity share without the prior written 

 
 consent of IL&FS. La-Fin also stated that pursuant to the purchase 

 of the shares of the Petitioner, it undertook not to sell or issue any 

 
 equity shares in the Petitioner on behalf of FTIL, MCX and "our 

 group Companies" for a stipulated period from the date of purchase 

 
 for a price exceeding the buy back price. The letter was signed on 
 
 behalf of La-Fin by Jignesh Shah, its Director. The second letter 

 dated 14 December 2009 was issued by MCX to IL&FS referring to 
 
 the Share Purchase Agreement and to the letter dated 20 August 

 2009 from La-Fin. MCX by its letter sought the approval of IL&FS 
 

 to the proposed Scheme of Reduction which was to be discussed in 
 

 an extraordinary General Meeting of the Petitioner. The letter 

 contained an assurance that it was not in dilution of the terms of 

 the SPA. Similarly, MCX furnished an undertaking for and on its 

 behalf and on behalf of FTIL, La-Fin and "our group companies" 96. During the course of the hearing, certain factors have 

 been set out to on behalf of SEBI to indicate that the three 

 
 companies, the Petitioner, MCX and FTIL form part of one group. These are: (i) Jignesh Shah and his wife held 100% of the equity 

 
 share capital of La-Fin as admitted during the course of the hearing 
 
 by the Petitioner and by the Third and Fourth Respondents; (ii) La- Fin together with Jignesh Shah and his family hold 45.53% of the 
 
 equity share capital of FTIL; (iii) FTIL holds 31.18% of the equity 

 share capital of MCX; and (iv) The website of FTIL shows the 
 

 Petitioner and MCX as part of the FTIL group. In paragraph 52 of 
 

 his impugned order, the Whole Time Member has concluded that 

 FTIL and MCX are Companies under the same management under Section 370(1B)(i) of the Companies' Act, 1956 on the ground 

 that they have a common manager, Mr.Jignesh Shah, and are, 

 therefore, deemed to be persons acting in concert for the purpose 

 of MIMPS Regulations. This finding in the impugned order is as 

 follows : 97. The finding which is contained in the extract quoted 

 above proceeds on the basis that both the letters were addressed by 

 Mr.Jignesh Shah. As a matter of fact, only one of the two letters, 

 that dated 20 August 2009 addressed by La-Fin to IL&FS has been ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:25 ::: VBC 132 wp213.11

 signed by Jignesh Shah. The other letter dated 14 December 2009 

 
 addressed by MCX to IL&FS has not been signed by him. That 

 
 apart, under Section 370(1B) of the Companies' Act, 1956 two 

 bodies corporate are deemed to be under the same management if 

 
 the Manager of one body is the Manager of the other. Section 

 2(24) defines the expression "manager' to mean an individual who 

 
 is subject to the superintendence, control and direction of the 
 
 Board of Directors and has the management of the whole or 

 substantially the whole of the affairs of the Company. The test that 
 
 must be applied in determining as to whether a person must be 

 regarded as a 'manager' in Section 2(24) was elucidated in the 
 

 judgment of the Supreme Court in Commissioner of Income Tax, 
 

 Kerala vs. Alagappa Textile (Cochin) Ltd,40 Mr.Justice V.D. 

 Tulzapurkar , speaking for the Bench of the Supreme Court held as 

 follows: In this definition three conditions are required to be 
 satisfied: (a) the manager must be an 
 individual, which means that a firm or a body 
 corporate or an association is excluded and cannot be a 
 manager (a fact which is expressly made clear in s. 384 ), (b) he should have the management of the whole or 
 substantially the whole affairs of the company and (c) he 
 should be subject to the superintendence, control and ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:25 ::: VBC 134 wp213.11

 directions of the Board of Directors in the matter of 
 managing the affairs of the company. Subject to the 

 
 changes made in the aspects covered by (a) and (b), in 
 both the definitions the aspect that a manager has to 

 
 work or exercise his powers under the control and 
 directions of the Board of Directors is common and 
 essential. In fact it is this aspect which distinguishes 
 'Manager' from 'Managing Agent'. If the definition of 

 
 'Manager' as given in s. 2(24) is compared 
 with that of 'Managing Agent' as given in s. 2(25) it 
 will appear clear that though there is an overlapping of 
 the functions of the manager as well as the managing 

 
 agent of the company the essential distinction seems to
 be that whereas the manager has to be 
 
 subject to the superintendence, control and direction of 
 the Board of directors the managing agent is not so 
 subject." There is merit in the contention which has been urged on behalf of 
 

 the Petitioner and the Third and Fourth Respondents that the 
 

 impugned order proceeds to hold that Jignesh Shah is a Manager 

 of both FTIL and MCX primarily on the basis of one letter and the 

 undertaking contained therein. The test which has been adverted 

 to in the judgment of the Supreme Court in Alagappa Textile (supra) has not been considered while assessing the applicability of Regulation 2(2)(e)(2) . Moreover, several of the circumstances 

 which have been adverted to during the course of the submissions 

 by the Learned Additional Solicitor General of India do not form ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:25 ::: VBC 135 wp213.11

 the basis of the impugned order. This is apart from the fact that in 

 
 deciding the issue as to whether FTIL and MCX are persons acting 

 
 in concert, the Whole Time Member of SEBI has not dealt with 

 whether the principal requirement of a common objective or 

 
 purpose has been fulfilled. The impugned order is, therefore, 

 rendered vulnerable on account of its failure to apply the requisite 

 
 legal standard that must determine whether the promoters were 
 
 acting in concert within the meaning of Regulation 2(1)(e) . 98. During the course of the hearing, a joint statement has 

 been tendered to the Court on behalf of the Third and Fourth 
 

 Respondents in the form of an undertaking signed by their 
 

 Advocates in the following terms: 99. The Third and Fourth Respondents have now 

 
 unequivocally stated before the Court that they would undertake 

 together not to exceed five per cent in the shareholding of the 

 
 Petitioner or such limit as may be prescribed under the MIMPS 
 
 Regulations from time to time. A further undertaking has been 
 
 tendered that even if the option under the buy back or under the 

 warrants are exercised, the holding of the Third and Fourth 
 

 Respondents jointly or severally shall not exceed five per cent. This 
 

 is an aspect which SEBI must be required to reconsider upon the 

 final order that we propose to pass in the case. Concentration of Economic Interest: 100. The finding by SEBI to the effect that there would be a 

 concentration of economic interest has fairly not been canvassed 

 by the Learned Additional Solicitor General during the course of 

 the submissions. None of the Regulations contains an independent ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:25 ::: VBC 137 wp213.11

 statutory norm in regard to the concentration of economic interest. This ground in the impugned order is, therefore, extraneous to the 

 
 MIMPS Regulations. If the requirements of the MIMPS Regulations 

 are fulfilled, then independent of them, there would be no further 

 
 norm referable to the concentration of economic interest on which 

 the Petitioner would fail in its application. Fit and proper person: 101. In holding that it would not be in the public interest and 
 
 the interest of the trade to grant the application, SEBI has 

 concluded in its impugned order that the Petitioner is not a fit and 
 

 proper person. This finding is primarily based on the following 
 

 premises: 102. In the earlier part of this judgment, the issue of 
 

 disclosure has been elaborated upon at length. The relationship of 
 

 a stock exchange with SEBI must be founded on utmost good faith. Material and relevant facts which have a bearing on compliance 

 with the Act and the Regulations which SEBI enforces must be 

 disclosed. When SEBI, as a condition for the recognition of a stock 

 exchange imposes a stipulation of compliance with the provisions 

 of the MIMPS Regulations - and it may be compliance of the 

 relevant provisions as the subsequent notification imposes - there 

 has to be a genuine and honest compliance with the requirements ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:26 ::: VBC 139 wp213.11

 of the Regulations. The Petitioner and its promoters may be 

 
 correct in asserting that the existence of the buy back agreements 

 
 does not ipso facto result in a violation of the MIMPS Regulations, 

 in the present, once the shareholding of the promoters is brought 

 
 within the permissible limit. The buy back involves an option 

 which may or may not be exercised in the future. The promoters 

 
 submit that they have several courses of action open to ensure that 
 
 their shareholding does not exceed the statutory limit if the option 

 is exercised. New capital can be infused by increasing the 
 
 authorised capital; or the promoters may find an independent third 

 party to purchase the shares on the exercise of the buy back option. But these are evidently matters which SEBI as regulator must be 
 

 informed about. The buy back casts an obligation on the promissor 

 to purchase though an option is given to the promisee to sell in 

 future. The regulator is entitled to be in the know of full facts and 

 the existence of a buy back agreement is a relevant fact. Even 

 assuming that the promoters would make legitimate arrangements 

 in future upon the exercise of the buy back option to ensure that 

 their shareholding continues to be within the limit prescribed, SEBI 

 would be within its statutory powers to demand assurances that ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:26 ::: VBC 140 wp213.11

 those conditions would be fulfilled. We are, therefore, unable to 

 
 accept the submission which was urged on behalf of the promoters 

 
 that the non-disclosure of the buy back agreements is of no 

 consequence because the buy back agreements were, according to 

 
 them, a wholly irrelevant consideration. The divestment of shares 

 held by the promoters in excess of the limit prescribed by Regulation 8 was to ensure MIMPS compliance. If as in this case, a 
 
 divestment of shares was also accompanied by a buy back 

 obligation assumed by the promoters, disclosure of the buy back is 
 
 a relevant consideration. The existence of the buy back agreements 

 is a relevant consideration in enabling SEBI to determine as to 
 

 whether there was a genuine divesting of shares held by the 
 

 promoters in exeess of the limit. Compliance with the provisions of 

 the MIMPS Regulations by the promoters of the stock exchange 

 cannot be cloaked in secrecy qua SEBI as a regulator. 103. But having said this, we are of the view that it would not 

 be justifiable in the facts of the present case to reject the 

 application merely on that ground. From the perspective of the 

 Whole Time Member who made the impugned order, the non- VBC 141 wp213.11

 disclosure of the buy back agreements is coupled with his finding 

 
 that the buy back is a forward contract and, is therefore, illegal. This aspect of the finding of the adjudicating officer has been held 

 to be erroneous in the earlier part of the judgment. Once the buy 

 
 back agreement is held not to be a forward contract, then the 

 alleged illegality of the agreement as a ground for holding that the 

 
 Petitioner is not a fit and proper person necessarily ceases to exist. Another circumstance which must be borne in mind is that during 

 the course of the proceedings before SEBI, an undertaking has been 
 
 tendered on behalf of the promoters that the statutory limit which 

 has been prescribed under the MIMPS Regulations would not be 
 

 exceeded. Moreover, during the course of the proceedings before 
 

 this Court, the undertaking which has been tendered by the 

 promoters is even more specific and stringent: that 

 notwithstanding the exercise of the option under the buy back or 

 the warrants, the shareholding of both the promoters together 

 jointly or severally will not exceed five per cent. There has, hence, 

 been a bona fide effort on the part of the Petitioner and its two 

 promoters to ensure that they do not breach the provisions of the 

 MIMPS Regulations by undertaking to the Court that the ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:26 ::: VBC 142 wp213.11

 shareholding of the promoters together shall not exceed the limit of 

 
 five per cent prescribed under the MIMPS Regulations for a 

 
 resident. XIV : Conclusion: 104. In this view of the matter, the conclusions which have 

 
 been arrived at in the course of the judgment may now be revisited 
 
 in determining the appropriate final order to be passed in the case: (vi) During the course of the proceedings before SEBI as well 

 as before this Court, undertakings have been filed by the promoters 

 to the effect that the provisions of the MIMPS Regulations 

 including the ceiling on the holding of the shares would be ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:26 ::: VBC 145 wp213.11

 complied with notwithstanding the exercise of the option under the 

 
 buy back agreement and the warrants for the allotment of shares. Both the promoters have now held themselves down to hold 

 together, jointly and severally no more than five per cent of the 

 
 equity capital. There is no reasonable basis to reject the 

 undertakings which have been filed; (vii)
 
 The buy back agreements cannot be held to be illegal as 

 found in the impugned order of the Whole Time Member of SEBI 
 
 on the ground that they constitute forward contracts. A buy back 

 confers an option on the promisee and no contract for the purchase 
 

 and sale of shares is made until the option is exercised. The 
 

 promissor cannot compel the exercise of the option and if the 

 promisee were not to exercise the option in future, there would be 

 no contract for the sale and purchase of shares. Once a contract is 

 arrived at upon the option being exercised, the contract would be 

 fulfilled by spot delivery and would, therefore, not be unlawful. (viii) The alternate submission which has been urged on behalf 

 of SEBI at the hearing that the buy back agreements constitute an ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:26 ::: VBC 146 wp213.11

 option in securities and being derivatives violate the provisions of 

 
 Section 18A of the SCRA is not the basis either of the notice to 

 
 show cause that was issued to the Petitioner or of the order passed 

 by the Whole Time Member of SEBI. SEBI has in fact, issued a 

 
 notice to show cause to the Petitioner subsequent to the order 

 asserting that as a ground. In that view of the matter, it will not be 

 
 appropriate or proper for this Court to render any finding on that 
 
 aspect, particularly when it did not find a place either in the notice 

 to show cause or in the order passed thereon; (ix) The definition of the expression "persons acting in 
 

 concert" is for the purpose of the MIMPS Regulations derived from 
 

 the Takeover Regulations, by Explanation (IV) to Regulation 8 of 

 the MIMPS Regulations. Regulation 8 after its amendment in 

 2008, refers only to the holding of shares and not to the acquisition 

 and holding of the shares as earlier. In applying the provisions of Regulation 2(1)(e) of the Takeover Regulations (which defines 

 "persons acting in concert") to the MIMPS Regulations, it would be 

 permissible following well settled principles in that regard to make 

 some alteration in detail to render the regulations meaningful and ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:26 ::: VBC 147 wp213.11

 effective. However, the essential ingredients of the expression 

 
 "persons acting in concert" in the Takeover Regulations cannot be 

 
 abrogated. SEBI when it incorporated the definition of "persons 

 acting in concert" from the Takeover Regulations was conscious of 

 
 the definition in those Regulations and must be attributed with the 

 knowledge of the manner in which it has been interpreted. The 

 
 Supreme Court has held that the existence of a common objective 
 
 or purpose is a necessary requirement of the expression which must 

 be fulfilled by an agreement, formal or informal; (x) The impugned order passed by the Whole Time Member 
 

 has failed to apply the principal test enunciated by the judgment of 
 

 the Supreme Court in Daichi Sankyo (supra) in determining as to 

 whether certain persons may be held to be acting in concert. The 

 mere fact that two persons have come together in promoting a 

 Company does not lead to the inference that they are acting in 

 concert for the purposes of the Takeover Regulations. The further 

 finding of the Whole Time Member of SEBI that the two promoters 

 of the Petitioner had a common Manager is based primarily on the 

 execution of one letter. The finding does not take into account the ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:26 ::: VBC 148 wp213.11

 test spelt out by the Supreme Court in Alagappa Textile (supra) 

 
 that a person in order to be a manager within the meaning of Section 2(24) of the Companies' Act, 1956 must have the 

 management of the whole or substantially the whole of the affairs 

 
 of the Company and be subject to the superintendence, control and 

 directions of the Board of Directors. The findings which have been 

 
 arrived at in the impugned order are contrary to law since they 
 
 ignore the relevant legal tests which have been laid down by the 

 Supreme Court; (xi) In any event, both the promoters of the Petitioner have, 
 

 during the course of the hearing of these proceedings, tendered 
 

 undertakings to the Court to the effect that notwithstanding the 

 exercise of the option conferred by the warrants and by the buy 

 back agreements, their shareholding jointly and severally in the 

 petitioner shall not exceed five per cent as prescribed in Regulation 

 8 of the MIMPS Regulations; (xii) On the aspect as to whether the Petitioner is a fit and 

 proper person for the grant of recognition, the finding which has ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:26 ::: VBC 149 wp213.11

 been arrived at in the impugned order is inter alia based on a 

 
 conclusion as to the illegality of the buy back agreements on the 

 
 ground that they are forward contracts, which is found to be 

 erroneous in the present judgment. The effect of the non- disclosure of the buy back agreements to SEBI should be 

 considered having regard to the fact that a genuine attempt has 

 
 been made by the promoters by tendering an undertaking to the 
 
 Court that their shareholding together shall not exceed five per 

 cent of the equity capital, notwithstanding the exercise of the 
 
 options. 105. In view of these conclusions and for the reasons that we 
 

 have indicated above, we are of the view that the impugned order 

 passed by the Whole Time Member of SEBI on 23 September 2010 

 would have to be set aside. We direct accordingly. We direct, in 

 consequence, that the application filed by the Petitioner on 7 April 

 2010 shall be reconsidered afresh in terms of the observations 

 contained in this judgment. Upon remand, a fresh decision shall be 

 arrived at after furnishing the Petitioner an opportunity of being 

 heard within a period of one month from today. Rule is made ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:26 ::: VBC 150 wp213.11

 absolute in the aforesaid terms. There shall be no order as to costs. ( Dr.D.Y.Chandrachud, J.)

 
 ( Anoop V.Mohta, J. ) ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:17:26 :::