These are the cross appeals filed against the order of the CIT (A)-38, Mumbai
 dated 6.9.2013 for the assessment year 2009-2010. The issues involved in both the
 appeals are inter-connected and therefore, they are clubbed for the sake of
 convenience, heard combinedly and disposed of in this consolidated order. Appeal
 wise and ground wise adjudication is given in the following paragraphs. 1. Assessee‟s appeal ITA No.5811/M/2013 2. Firstly, we shall take up the assessee's appeal ITA No.5811/M/2013 for the
 assessment year 2009-2010. This is the appeal, where the stay was rejected and
 early hearing was granted. Accordingly, since the case was transferred to G
 Bench by the order of the Hon‟ble President, the appeal came up for hearing 2 for the first time on 26.11.2013. Considering the large number of grounds in the
appeals of both the parties and the voluminous paper books and the requirement of
material facts, the case was adjourned at the request of both the parties and heard
on 2nd, 3rd, 10th, 30th and 31st of December, 2013 and 4th, 6th, 11th & 14th of
February, 2014. The case is finally heard on 19th February, 2014. 3. Grounds Dismissed as not pressed, general or repetitive: As seen from
the Grounds of Appeal, Assessee raised 19 grounds in this case. Ld Counsel brought
our attention to the grounds nos. 1, 2, 10, 13 to 16 were not pressed.
Accordingly, after considering the views of the Ld DR, the said grounds are
dismissed as not pressed. Grounds No.17 and 18 are either general or repetitive in
nature. Accordingly, the said grounds are dismissed as general or repetitive. 4. The rest of grounds relevant for adjudication are extracted as under: Accordingly, AO made the addition. In the process, he ignored the fact that similar
exemption was claimed in earlier years, namely, AYs 2005-06 to 2009-10 and no
such addition was made despite scrutiny assessments u/s 153A r w s 143(3) of the
Act. Therefore, the assessee disputed the said denial of exemption and filed appeal
before the first appellate authority (paragraphs 12 to 15 of the impugned order is
relevant in this regard). 8. Before the CIT(A): During the first appellate proceedings, assessee filed
written submissions which are discussed in para 14 of the impugned order.
Eventually, CIT (A) came to the conclusion that the (a) ACs are used in all the
months; and (b) explanation of the assessee in matters of the discrepancies qua the
labour charges invoices of M/s. S.L. Industries were found unacceptable. He also
opined that keeping the whole SEZ unit ideal for 365 working days is not prudent.
Physical demonstration before the special auditors is only with reference to the
current year of auditing and not the relevant Financial Year 2008-2009.Therefore,
the explanation is not acceptable. CIT (A) was of the opinion that importer of the
gold medallions being M/s. Al Khayal Al Dhahabi Jellery LLC, is owned with a
Managing Director. Further, he has also opined that with two days of manufacturing
activity, asseessee earned profit of Rs. 6.43 Crs, which is beyond comprehension.
Assessee's explanation relying on the customs authorities of the medallions is not
accepted by the CIT (A) as the customs authorities never do the physical verification
of the goods imported and exported out of SEZ. He, accordingly, held that assessee
is not entitled for exemption u/s 10A of the Act. 9. Without prejudice to the above, the CIT (A) examined the discrepancy with
regard to the valuation based on the FIFO method. After analyzing the issue it
was held that the he was under valuation of the stock and the assessee transferred
200 kgs of gold bars @ Rs. 11,500/- per 10 gms instead of existing rate of Rs.
13,063.57/- per 10 gms. As per the stock available on that date, the under
valuation worked out to Rs. 3,12,71,400/-. To this extent, the profits are inflated.
This amount represents the difference between the ―value of inward stock of gold
bars into the SEZ units as shown by the assessee and the actual value of the stock
determined on FIFO basis‖. This amount of Rs. 3,12,71,400/- is confirmed without
prejudice to the denial of deduction u/s 10A of the Act. Aggrieved with the above,
the assessee raised the above grounds before the Tribunal. 10. During the proceedings before us, Shri Chetan A Karia, Ld Counsel for the
assessee explained the above relevant facts of the issue and reiterated the
contentions made before the lower authorities. Ld Counsel was critical of the
discrepancies remarked by the special auditors. He repeatedly mentioned about the
fact of assessee's efforts in physical demonstration before the special auditors of the
company's ability to manufacture the said amount of gold medallions in two days
time with the minimum use of electricity. He also described that the process of
making medallions is a simple process involving consumption of minimum units of
electricity. He heavily relied on the export invoices, ship bills (page 413 to 427 of
the paper book no.3); bill entry of UAE for movement of goods exported. He also
mentioned about the security agency's note for movement of gold bars from
Ahmadabad office to Surat, SEZ (428 to 435 of the PB 3). He also relied on the
labour charges bill of M/s. S.L. Industries (Page 436 of PB 3). He further brought
our attention to the fact that the labour contractor was summoned u/s 131 and the
relevant books of accounts of the labour contractor were also examined. The fact of
accounting of the higher wastage / loss in the process was also accounted for in the
books of accounts (page 1110 of PB 6). On the electricity consumption issue, it was
argued that the assessee's total block of assets is worth Rs. 16,13,797/- only and it
does not involve very heavy electricity consumption. No high voltage apparatus was
necessary for making the said medallions. As per the assessee, on production of 8 7 hrs shift to manufacture gold medallions, the power consumption required is only
65.60 units @ 8.2 units per hour. On the issue of the under valuation qua the
FIFO method, it is the contention of the assessee that the gold was purchased @ Rs.
11,500/- per 10 gms based on the date of the export order and not the date of
transfer of the gold to the SEZ. However, Ld Counsel was not very particular against
the use of FIFO method to the impugned transfers of Gold bars of 200kgs. 11. Per contra, Ld DR for the Revenue heavily relied on the order of the AO and
the CIT (A). In this regard, Ld DR submitted a working paper giving the brief
synopsis on the conclusions of the AO and the CIT (A). It is the case of the Ld DR
that there is a lot of suspicion in the whole claim of the assessee and the claim of
the assessee against the ‗human probability'. The claim of the assessee is not
allowable on the ground of impossibilities as well as amounts to the inflated income.
He also mentioned that the burden of proof is on the assessee when exemption is
claimed and the assessee failed to demonstrate the same. 12. Decision of the Tribunal - Claim of Exemption u/s 10A of the Act: We
have heard both the parties on the issue of bona fide of the manufacturing activity
at SEZ, Surat for earning exempt income of Rs. 6.43 Crs as well as the under
valuation of the purchase of gold bars while brining into SEZ, Surat. In this regard,
prominent issues for adjudication are the assessee's ability to earn the Exempt
income of Rs 6.43 cr with manufacturing activity of two days at SEZ, Surat,
discrepancy with regard to consumption of minimum units of electricity and non
claiming of labour charges involving M/s. S.L. Industries to the extent of 110 kgs of
gold medallions. So far as electricity consumption is concerned, it is the claim of the
assessee that for use of plant and machinery worth Rs. 16.14 lakhs, around
65.60 units @ 8.2 units per 8 hrs, is enough. The books of accounts supports the
same in favour of the claim of the assessee and the consumption is only around 130
units, which is reported in the electricity meters. All other discussions on this issue
is debatable and the same is inconclusive. It is a fact that the total units consumed
in those two months of September, 2008 (943 units) and October, 2008 (870 units)
explains the consumption of electricity in those two months. Therefore, this 8 discrepancy in electricity consumption is inconclusive and it cannot be stated that
the machinery was not put to use. It is not the case of the Revenue that the
process of making gold medallions involves high voltage plant and machinery
requiring huge amount of electricity. AO has not brought any incriminating material
to suggest that the assessee suppressed any electricity consumption outside the
books. Similar claims u/s 10A of the Act are made in earlier AYs since 205-06 and
the same are not denied too. Therefore, on this issue, considering the absence any
incriminating evidences against the assessee, we approve the contention of the
assessee. 13. Further, on the argument relating to non-payment of „labour charges‟
with regard to making of 109 Kgs of Medallions by SL Industries, we find that there
are some disturbing facts involving M/s. S.L. Industries who commonly rendered the
labour services in respect of the total medallions worth 310 kgs gold and proper bill
is only available in respect of 201 kgs as against the total claim of 310 kgs. For the
difference of 109 kgs, no bills have been raised by M/s. S.L. Industries. Assessee
also not claimed any expenditure on this account. Though there are whispers about
the incurring of heavy wastage in respect of 109 kgs of gold medallions, the
evidence is only in terms of book entries and not otherwise. On these facts, it is
difficult to infer that M/s. S.L. Industries rendered services in respect of 109 kgs of
gold medallions. When the exemption is claimed by the assessee, the onus is
heavily on the assessee to prove the same with evidence. In our opinion, the
onus is not fully discharged by the assessee on this limited issue. Therefore, we are
of the view that the profits attributable to 109 kgs of gold medallions is required to
be quantified and denied for exemption u/s 10A of the Act. AO should make sure
that there is no double denial of deduction qua the transfer of 200 Kgs of gold-bars,
which is subject matter of denial of exemption involving the FIFO method discussed
in the immediate subsequent paragraph. 14. Further also, CIT(A) confirmed addition to the tune of Rs. 3,12,71,400/- on
the grounds of FIFO method. It is the claim of the assessee that the 200 kgs of
gold bar were transferred to SEZ for making of medallions and valued the same as 9 per the rates applicable to gold on the date of export order. AO made out the case
of undervaluation following the FIFO method to be adopted by the assessee.
Regarding under valuation qua applicability of the FIFO method, considering the
entries in the books of accounts and the rate applicable on the dates of transfer, as
fairly admitted by the ld Counsel before us, we are of the opinion that the FIFO
method has to be applied. Accordingly, the profits for the under valuation of Rs
3,12,71,400/- is required to be disallowed. In this regard, the findings of the CIT
(A) given in para 15 of the impugned order are relevant which read as under: 15. Considering the above, we are of the opinion that the decision given by the
CIT (A) in thrusting on the assessee the FIFO method on the transfer of 200kgs of
gold bars is fair and reasonable and it does not call for any interference. However,
considering the low value plant and machinery worth of only Rs 16 lakhs, the extent
of the electricity consumption noted in the books of accounts, in the absence of any
adverse material in possession of the revenue to conclusively prove about the
absence of manufacturing activity of medallions, presence of documents to support
of fact of export activity of the medallions, we do not approve the argument of the
revenue that the assessee has not manufactured the medallions. Eventually, there is
need for denying the exemption to the extent of Rs 3,12,71,400/-. Regarding the
allowing of exemption in respect of the profits attributable to the export of the 109
kgs of the gold medallions, the same needs to be disallowed for want of discharge of
onus by the assessee. It is to clarify that this part of the disallowance is no way
connected to the alleged absence/doubting of manufacturing activity of
making of medallions. AO is directed to quantify the proportionate disallowance 10 after granting opportunity of being heard to the assessee. Accordingly, ground
no.3, 4.1 and 4.2 are adjudicated pro-tanto. 16. Ground no.5 of the assessee's appeal relates to confirming of the addition to
the extent of Rs 2.33 crores u/s 69C / 68 of the Act out of the total addition of Rs
4,23,56,727/-. As per the assessment order, the AO also made addition of Rs 2.33cr
(ie the cash transported by road from branches outside Ahmedabad) without
prejudice to the addition of Rs 4,23,56,727/-. CIT(A) confirmed the addition of Rs
2.33 cr and deleted the other addition. The said relief is contested by the Revenue in
their appeal vide ground 1 of their appeal. The issue involved in these two grounds
relates to the cash transferred from distantly located branches of the assessee and
the cash entries in the books. Considering the intermixing of the facts, ground 5 of
the assessee‟s appeal and ground 1 of the revenue‟s appeal are adjudicated
here for the sake of convenience. It is the submissions of the assessee that the
payments towards Customs duty at SEZ, Gandhidham need to be paid in cash only.
For this purpose, the assessee transferred cash from the branches from Coimbatore,
Chennai, Mumbai etc. This issue was subject matter before the Special Auditors too. 17. Relevant facts in this are that during the year, the assessee purchased
plastic from M/s. Lucky Star International Pvt. Ltd, M/s. vazir Polymers and M/s.
Shreeji Polymers located at SEZ at Kandla. In this connection, assessee was under Eventually, CIT (A) granted relief in respect of addition of Rs 4,23,56,727/-.
However, he confirmed the addition of Rs. 2.33 Crs made u/s 68 of the Act. Para 18
and 20 of the impugned order are relevant here and for the sake of completeness of
this order, the same are reproduced here under: Rs. 2,23,00,000/- is transferred from Coimbatore, Madras, Mumbai and Rs 1.94 cr is
the sale proceeds of cash at Ahmadabad. Further, in support of the claim of transfer
of cash from branches, Ld Counsel brought out attention to the evidences filed in PB
at pages 512-575/PB 3 - bus tickets, copy cash book, cash in transit account etc. He
also mentioned that common practice in bullion trade as well as in State of Gujarat
to transfer cash by road transport - private cars as well as transport buses. Further,
it is also the submission of the assessee that mere suspicion cannot be basis for
assessment. For this proposition assessee relied on the judgment of the Hon'ble
Supreme Court judgment in the case of Dhakeshwari Cotton Mills, 26 ITR 775 (SC)
and another judgment in the case of Lalchand Bhagat Ambica Ram, 37 ITR 288 14 (SC). Further, Ld Counsel mentioned that addition u/s 68 / 69A cannot be made on
mere suspicion without bringing on record evidence to disprove. In this regard,
assessee relied on the judgment of Hon'ble High Court of Delhi in the case of CIT of
Income-tax-II v. Kamdhenu Steel & Alloys Ltd [2012] 19 taxmann.com 26 (Delhi). 23. Per contra, Ld DR heavily relied on the order of the CIT (A) so far as the
confirming of the addition of Rs. 2.33 Crs is concerned. Further, in the context of
the Revenue's ground qua the deletion of addition of Rs. 4,23,56,727/-, Ld DR
heavily relied on the order of the AO and filed written submissions, gist of the same
reads as under: 24. We have heard both the parties on the issue of addition u/s 68 of the Act.
AO made addition of Rs. 4,23,56,727/- in toto, the total cash paid towards customs
duty at Kandla u/s 69C of the Act. This cash has two segments namely, (i) the cash
of Rs 2.33 cr emanating from the branches and (ii) the cash said to have been 15 transported from Ahmedabad (HO). CIT (A) deleted the same considering the
availability of cash in the books of accounts of both the branches and the Head
Office. Further, as part of the above addition and without prejudice, AO also made
the addition of Rs. 2.33 Crs. The reason of this addition is due to the impossibility of
the said cash reaching Kandla via Ahmedabad in one day time. According to the
Revenue the assessee failed to demonstrate conclusively that such cash of Rs 2.33
cr, emanated from the branches, can be transported by road crossing all the barriers
and there is no evidence relating to the bona fide of the claim. CIT (A) is of the
opinion that in a day's time, the cash cannot reach Ahmedabad by road from places
like Coimbatore and Chennai. Accordingly, CIT (A) confirmed the said addition of Rs
2.33 cr, the cash transported from the branches. On considering the arguments of
the parties and the papers available before us, we find the documents filed before us
are not adequate enough to hold that the assessee has discharged the onus
successfully. Travel distance between Mumbai and Coimbatore is over 1352 km
approximately (2200 km -sic) and it is not an easy task to cover such a distance in a
day's time. There are number of check posts and the carrying of cash in lakhs is not
an easy or casual act to be believed without conclusive evidences. As such, the
assessee has not produced the concerned drivers in person before the AO for
examination. In our opinion, though there is adequate cash balance in the books of
the branches and the cash payments are actually made towards the customs duty,
the onus is strictly on the assessee to demonstrate the transportation of cash
physically by road from all the outstations. We do not understand why cash should
be transported when the assessee has bank accounts in Ahmedabad at least, if not
Kandla. Why the assessee has not opened bank accounts in SBI in Kanda when
there is regular banking needs to the assessee? Needless to say further that the
assessee does not have appropriate or convincing answers. In so far as the cash
transported from Ahmadabad is concerned, the facts are different and it is possible
that cash can reach Kanda in a day's time as the distance is around 250 km
approximately. Considering the constant checks at the interstate checkposts and
complexity of transportation of cash physically, we cannot extend the same
concession to the cash transported across the states ie Mumbai-Ahmedabad-Kandla 16 route. Thus, it is not only the distance factor that the assessee failed to explain
but also the other logical issues relating to mode and method of transportation
of cash physically across the interstate borders. On examination of the facts and the
arguments placed before us, we are of the opinion that the order of the CIT (A) is
fair and reasonable and it does not call for any interference. Accordingly, ground
no.5 of the assessee's appeal and ground no 1 of the Revenue's appeal are
dismissed. 25. Ground no.6 relates to the addition of Rs 141,24,75,896/- u/s 68 of the Income Tax Act, 1961 . Relevant facts in this regard are explained by the AO in para
4 of his order. The summary of the findings of the special auditors' report, details of
the show cause notice issued by the AO and the reply thereof from the assessee
were also therein. At the end, the AO came to the conclusions that there is a need
for making addition of the said amount u/s 68 of the Act considering the explanation
offered by the assessee, being not satisfactory. AO is of the opinion, that the
sources for the same were remained unexplained. Otherwise, the relevant facts are
that the assessee sold 4350.175 kgs of gold jewelry during the year. Out of them,
the following quantities were sold for the amounts mentioned against each party. 26. On going through the relevant ledgers of the above referred parties, the
accounts of the said three parties are settled through the journal entries passed in
the account of JBGJPL and the assessee received the outstanding dues from JBGJPL.
Relevant payment details received by the assessee are given as under: 27. Thus, the above amount of Rs. 1,41,24,75,896/- was finally received by
the assessee from M/s. Joshi Bullion Gems and Jewelry Pvt. Ltd (JBGJPL)
headed by Mr Jayesh Desai under certain circumstances instead of directly from the
said three parties. The assessee and JBGJPL has entered into the ‗assignment
agreements‟ to that extent. M/s Bond Gems P. Ltd (BGPL) (refer table above) and
JBGJPL are related parties. However, the AO dishonoured the said agreements
mentioning that the same are not signed by the concerned parties and parties have
not consented to the same. This issue was referred to the special auditors and their
relevant observations in this regard are as under: 28. During the assessment proceedings, AO issued a show cause notice to the
assessee proposing to make addition of Rs 141.25 crores. However, the assessee
replied vide its letter dated 4.8.2008 strongly opposing the move of the AO. It is the
contention of the assessee that M/s Joshi Bullion Gems and Jewelry Pvt. Ltd -
JBGJPL introduced the said 3 parties in connection with scheme of export of the gold
jewellery involving MSTC and JBGJPL stood as a guarantor. There is no written
document to this extent. Therefore, as part of the guarantee, M/s JBGJPL is
required to clear the outstanding balances of the said three parties. Actually, JBGJPL
is also one of the purchasers along with the said three parties and the same is
headed by Mr. Jayesh Desai. As part of the investigation, Sri Desai was examined on
oath by the Assessing Officer u/s 131 of the Act on 17.7.2012 before the assessment
was made. During the said examination and recording of the statement, there was
investigation into the background factors leading to assessee's sales of gold
jewellery to the said four parties including JBGJPL for export abroad involving MSTC,
non clearance of outstanding balances by the said three parties, involvement of Sri 18 Desai and his business obligation leading to payment of outstanding arrears of Rs
141.25 crores (rounded of) pertaining to the said three parties, justification for the
assessee to collect the said arrears from JBGJPL considering oral guarantee given by
Desai, sources of the funds for the JBGJPL to pay the sum of Rs 141.25 cr etc.
Further, it is the submission of the assessee, in case the arrears would have become
debts and that case, the provisions of section 36(1)(vii) r.w.s. 36(2) of the Act would
have become applicable and the said amounts become bad debts which are
allowable under the said provisions. 29. M/s K A Malle Pharmaceuticals P Ltd : Meanwhile, the AO examined one
of the parties K A Malle Pharmaceuticals P Ltd (KAMPPL) by issuing summons u/s
131 of the Act, wherein KAMPPL confirmed the purchases from the assessee.
KAMPPL confirmed payability of the outstanding balances to the assessee as per the
books. It has come to know of the investigation of the CBI into the MSTC-scam
and the same is the debtor to the assessee. He is not a party to the said assignment
deeds. However, he is aware of the fact of payment by JBGJPL to the assessee and
the relevant letter is reproduced on page 22 of the assessment order. When the
above information was brought to the notice of the assessee, assessee replied with
the said parties introduced by the JBGJPL, which has undertaken to make the
payment of those parties in case the said parties did not comply with the payment
schedules. Further, it was ascertained that the assessee shall repay the amount to
JBGJPL as and when KAMPPL clears their liabilities (of Rs. 27,67,69,687/-) with the
assessee. Ideally, the KAMPPL should pay the said arrears to JBGJPL. There was
some discussion of assessee filing of suit on KAMPPL. Further, it was submitted that
there is no case of cash credits addition u/s 68 of the Act. In this regard, assessee
sought from AO an opportunity to cross examine the parties either singly or jointly.
AO summed up his inferences in connection with the KAMPPL and they are as under: 1,41,24,75,896/- paid on behalf of the parties. However, Shri Jayesh Desai 21 promised to return with certain answers and certain details and for this, he
requested for some time. However, although the said details were filed in tapals on
14.2.2013, Mr.Desai never appeared before the AO. Explaining this lapse of Mr
Desai, AO inferred that the assessee failed to explain the source of payments.
Further, AO is also of the opinion that there is no document to support the claim
that that the JGBJPL is a guarantor. AO also discussed about the suppliers of the
KAMPPL, who categorically stated that he has never authorized JBGJPL to make their
payment on their behalf. The absence of the tripartite agreement was also
discussed. AO did not believe that the JBGJPL with the turnover of Rs. 193.22 Crs is
capable of guarantying for liabilities of others worth Rs. 200 Crs. Further, assessee
also relied on the judgment in the case of Ashwani Oberoi vs. CIT [2013] 29
Taxmann.com 224 (P & H) for the proposition that the transaction was not genuine
as the amount was received from the account of ghe third party and held that
assessee routed undisclosed income. AO also commented about the assessee's
failure to explain the source of deposits and the validity of making addition u/s 68 of
the Act. In response to the copy of the remand report made available to the
assessee, a letter dated 4.3.2013 was furnished by the asessee contesting each and
every issue raised by the Revenue in the remand report. Para 24 of the impugned
order of the CIT (A) is relevant in this regard. Briefly speaking the reply contains
details explanation about the sources of the funds and the ability of the JBGJPL to
make the payment and the responsibility of the JBGJPL to clear the arrears to set in
the business were discussed. Eventually, CIT (A) concluded by confirming the said
addition of Rs. 1,41,24,75,896/-. 35. Relevant discussion in this regard is given in para 25 to 25.4 of the
impugned order which reads as under: K.M. Malle Pharmaceuticals P. Ltd. and M/s Space Mercantile Co. P. Ltd. have also
never confirmed the case of the appellant. The only person who confirmed the
payment on its behalf is M/s Bond Gem P. Ltd. but the assessing officer has 23 established that the confirmation is cannot be relied upon because the address M/s
Joshi Bullion Gems and Jeweller' Pvt. Ltd. and M/s Bond Gems P. Ltd one and the
same and the confirmation is not supported by the corresponding written agreements
etc. and even the quantum of transaction involved with M/s Bond Gems P. Ltd. is
insignificant compared to the other two parties. Among the bigger two parties one
party K.M.Malle Pharmaceuticals P. Ltd. denied the knowledge of such transaction
between the appellant and M/s Joshi Bullion Gems and Jewellery Pvt. Ltd., and the
other party Space Mercantile Co. P. Ltd. never confirmed the arrangement between
the appellant and Space Mercantile Co. P. Ltd. Not only M/s K.M.Malle
Pharmaceuticals P. Ltd. was not aware of the transaction but it still shows the
appellant as the creditor in its books of account and it has to honour its commitments
to the appellant as per its own books of account. The appellant never made attempts
to prove his case from the side of Space Mercantile Co. P. Ltd. the biggest party to
the said transaction. Therefore it is held that the money has been paid for some
other reasons unknown the department. 25.2 During the course of remand proceedings the assessing officer summoned the
principle officer of M/s Joshi Bullion & Jewellery Pvt. Ltd. in response to which Shri
Jayesh Desai, director of the company appeared and his statement was recorded.
The assessing officer further stated that Shri Jayesh Desai undertook to explain the
sources for the huge deposits appearing in the bank account and as promised he
never appeared later and furnished evidences in support of the genuineness of the
deposits in the bank account. The assessing officer also submits that there is a
pattern of deposits coming into the account just before the date of making payment.
Though the appellant has stated in his submissions reproduced in pare 24.6 above
that a copy of the acknowledgement of the return of income for the assessment year
2009-10 has been filed by M/s Joshi Bullion & Jewellery Pvt. Ltd., the independent
confirmation obtained from the assessing officer confirms that M/s Joshi Bullion &
Jewellery Pvt. Ltd. have not filed the return of income for the assessment year 2009-
10 till date. 25.3 The appellant also contended that no opportunity was granted to cross exam
the parties to whom the summons were issued. It is stated in the assessment order
that the assessing did not provide the cross examination on the ground that it would
not serve any purpose. In this regard, it may be stated that the Income tax
proceedings are civil proceedings and the strict rules of evidence law are not
applicable to the Income tax proceedings and therefore the assessment is not
annulled merely on the ground that no opportunity was granted to cross examine the
parties. Further the decision of the Hon'ble Punjab and Haryana High Court in the
case of CIT vs. Ashwani Oberoi (2013) 29 taxman.com 224 cited by the assessing
officer is more relevant to the facts of the case than the case laws cited by the
appellant. 25.4 The fact that emerges in the whole situation is that the sum of Rs. 141 crores
has been received by the appellant from M/s Joshi Bullion Gems and Jewellery Pvt.
Ltd; the reasons for such payment has not been supported by necessary evidences
as discussed above; there is no confirmation from the biggest party M/s Space
Mercantile Co. P. Ltd. in support of the case of the appellant, the source for the
payment in the of M/s Joshi Bullion Gems and Jewellery Pvt. Ltd. has not been 24 substantively proved and the enquiries made with Mis K.M.Malle Pharmaceuticals P.
 Ltd. disproves the contention of the appellant and all such factors lead to the natural
 conclusion that the money has been paid for some other unknown reasons and the
 assessing officer having not been satisfied with the explanation of the appellant
 brought to tax the sums deposited in the books of account as the unexplained cash
 credit in terms of the provisions of section 68 of the Act and the same is hereby
 confirmed.‖ 36. From the above, it is evident that while confirming the addition CIT (A)
believed the fact that there is no tripartite agreement and therefore, there is
absence of consent by the debtors. He ignored certain confirmation letters filed by
the BGPL and also ignored the demand for cross examination requested by the
KAMPPL. Aggrieved with the above, the assessee raised the ground no.6 before the
Tribunal. 37. Before the Tribunal: During the proceedings before us, Shri Chetan A
Karia, Ld Counsel for the assessee explained the above facts of the case and
mentioned that Maharashtra State Trading Corporation (MSTC) is engaged in the
export of gold jewellery. Explaining the same, Ld Counsel mentioned that the
assessee is a supplier of gold jewellery and SMPL, KAMPPL, BGPL and JBGJPL are
the purchasers of the same. These purchases sold the goods in the name of the
MSTC and exported the same abroad. As per the terms of agreement, MSTC
releases 80% of the invoice value to SMPL, KAMPPL, BGPL and JBGJPL on exporting
the same and additionally, the balance of 20% would be realized on completion of
export activity on realization of export proceeds thereto. However, what seems to
have happened is different and these parties namely SMPL, KAMPPL, BGPL and
JBGJPL have not only received 80% of the invoice value from MSTC but also 100%
of the export proceeds. In fact, these suppliers were enriched 80% of the export
value of the gold jewellery. However, the assessee is the sufferer and the said
parties have not cleared the arrears to the assessee. CBI is engaged in investigation
involving MSTC and many other entities including SMPL, KAMPPL, BGPL and JBGJPL.
Being the co-sufferer, the assessee is out of the scam. These are the brief details of
the scheme uncovered by the investigative agency and cases are filed by the CBI in
this regard. 38. In this context, ld Counsel mentioned that the assessee is the sufferer in
the process and the liabilities were not claimed by the purchasers of the gold
jewellery despite the 180% of the sale proceeds earned by them. In this regard, Ld
Counsel referred to the attempts of the Department to obtain the data from the CBI
unsuccessfully. So far as the assessee's role is concerned, Ld Counsel submitted
that being seller of the gold jewelry to these three parties through the MSTC, never
received funds to the extent of impugned sum of Rs. 1,41,24,75,896/-. He, further,
mentioned that it is Mr. Jayesh Desai, who is the main person of JBGJPL and the
guarantor for the consideration of sales by the assessee to the said three parties. 39. Referring to the fact that the additions are made by the AO under section
68 of the Act, Ld Counsel mentioned that this is the case where the said amount of
Rs. 1,41,24,75,896/- was paid by JBGJPL and the same is identifiable considering the
plenty of reasons such as incorporation of the company under the Company Act ,
service of the notices for the Department, appearance of Mr. Jayesh Desai in
response to the notices to the filing of return etc. Regarding the creditworthiness of
the same, Ld Counsel submitted that assessee is in existence for many years and
the AO ignored the fact that the present company is renamed in the year. It is also
brought to our notice that in response to the summons u/s 131 of the Act, Mr.
Jayesh Desai appeared and furnished all the relevant information, bank statements
to brief the creditworthiness and the source of the income. Ld Counsel brought our
attention to the said statement taken on oath by Mr. Jayesh Desai to demonstrate
that the Assessing Officer did not ask any further details regarding the sources of
the payments in the accounts of JBGJPL, who squared up the liabilities of SMPL,
KAMPPL and BGPL. Reacting to the action of the AO on each of the case, Ld Counsel
made various submissions and the same are discussed in the succeeding paras. 40. (1) KAMPPL: The absence of tripartite agreement and the absence of
consent by the parties to the assignment deeds is the core objection of the AO in
this regard. Absence of confirmation letter and the insistence of the parties to make
the payment to the assessee are the objection relied upon by the AO for making
additions. It is also a fact that the Assessing Officer denied the request for cross 26 examination of KAMPPL mentioning that it is not required. The absence of business
sense is another side of the argument of the Revenue for making addition involving
KAMPPL. In this regard, Ld Counsel vehemently argued stating that KAMPPL not
only failed to clear the liabilities appearing in the assessee's books of accounts and it
is obvious for the assessee to bring pressure on the JBGJPL, who is the guarantor for
the sale consideration. JBGJPL is also one of the purchaser of the assessee's goods
directed and the connection between the JBGJPL and the rest of the three parties
commercially connected to the assessee. In that sense of the matter, there is a
commercial sense which is not really appreciated by the Revenue Authorities.
Referring to the denial of cross examination of KAMPPL, Ld Counsel mentioned that
it is but the principles of natural justice that the statements made by the advisors
should be allowed for cross examination. By denying the said opportunity, the
assessment proceedings suffer from dents. Regarding the absence of tripartite
agreement, Ld Counsel mentioned that the assignment deeds are self-contained and
the same are legally valued since they are signed by the transferor and the
transferee in writing which is duly registered. It is not the requirement of the law
that debtor should also be a party to such assignment deeds. Referring to the
provisions of section 130 and 131 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882, Ld Counsel
mentioned that it is not the case of novation and the assignment deeds are legally
valued. As per the law, such debtors are obliged to make payments to the
transferee of ―actionable claim‖. In this context, assessee brought our attention to
the part payment by another supplier SMPL to the extent of Rs. 1.72 Crs to the
assessee which was duly transferred to JBGJPL in accordance with the provisions of section 130 of Transfer of Property Act, 1882 (T.P. Act ). In these kind of situations,
in accordance with the provisions of sub-section(2) of section 130 of T.P. Act, the
transferee can also resort to take a legal action on the debtors for recovery of such
debts. The consent of the debtor is not required in such case of transfer of
―actionable claim‖. Assessee submitted the reasons why the said payments were
made by the JBGJPL on behalf of the three parties and the explanations are given in
answer to question no.10 and 11 of the statement taken on oath from Mr. Jayesh
Desai (page 605 to 607 of PB 4). In this regard, ld Counsel brought our attention to 27 the fact of explaining the sources of payment, the fact of JBGJPL filing the return of
income for the AY 2009-2010 was also mentioned (Page 610 of the PB). The
statement showing sources of deposits into the books of accounts of JBGJPL, which
is the source of payment of Rs. 1,41,24,75,896/- was also brought to our notice
(page 611 of the PB). Relevant ledger extracts and confirmations, copy of
assignment deeds, the copy of suits filed against KAMPPL and recoveries were also
mentioned (pages 612, 626, 627 to 633, 665 to 675, 732 of the PB are relevant).
He also brought our attention to the letter requesting for cross examination of
KAMPPL was also mentioned (page 23 of the assessment order). (2) SMPL: Regarding Space Mercantile Co P Ltd (SMPL), Ld Counsel
for the assessee mentioned that the notice could not be served on the said party for
the reasons best known to the SMPL. It is a commercial sense that the assessee
should somehow recover legally the liabilities of SMPL and accordingly the pressure
was kept on Mr. Jayesh Desai and realized the same by virtue of assignment deed.
It is a fact that the SMPL did not recognize the said assignment deed and paid a sum
of Rs. 1.72 crs to the assessee instead of JBGJPL in accordance with the provisions
of section 130 of the T.P. Act, 1882, which is legally incorrect. (3) BGPL: Regarding Bond Gems Pvt Ltd (BGPL), it is the case of
the Revenue that despite the confirmation letters furnished by the said party before
the AO, Assessing Officer denied the same and proceeded to make addition illegally,
merely stating that the address of BGPL shares is common with that of the JBGJPL.
In fact, JBGJPL and BGPL are sister concerns, wherein Mr. Jayesh Desai is the
common shareholder. Thus, Ld Counsel summed up by stating that the assessee
being seller of the gold jewelry collected its dues from JBGJPL, who is a guarantor
and whose identity is established beyond doubt and who has creditworthiness to
make the payment of the same. So far as assessee and his transactions with JBGJPL
and other three parties are concerned, it is a commercial transaction of trade and
realization of the proceeds and it is nothing to do with the messy exports made by
four parties involving MSTC. The fact that CBI has not booked any case against the
assessee confirms the same. In these circumstances, when the conditions of section
68 are made, there is no case for making addition u/s 68 of the Income Tax Act, 28 1961. Further, he also mentioned that the Revenue's demand for explaining the
sources of the funds deposited in the accounts of JBGJPL will amount to sources of
source which is not permissible under the law in the case of the present assessee. In
this regard, he relied on various decisions to support the same. 41. On the other hand, Ld DR relied heavily on the order of the AO as well as
the CIT (A). He strongly argued stating that the absence of tripartite agreement
exposes the assessee's contention about the genuineness of the payments made by
the JBGJPL. As per the Revenue, the consent of the debtors is the requirement for
such transactions. In support, the denial of the consent by KAMPPL and supported
by the expenses of the liabilities to the assessee in their books was cited. Further,
the failure of the service of notice on SMPL and the non-genuineness of the address
was also cited. He also brought our attention to the fact that the Revenue wrote a
letter to the CBI on 19.7.2012 for want of information from their records and non-
submission of the reply to the said letter was also discussed. Further, referring to
the assessee's contention that JBGJPL is a guarantor for the said three parties, Ld
DR mentioned that there is no document to suggest the said argument therefore, it
is the argument of the CIT-DR that the JBGJPL is not required to clear the arrears of
the three parties namely KAMPPL, SMPL ad BGPL. Referring to the assessee's
request for cross examination of KAMPPL, it is submitted that what purpose does it
serve by acceding to the said request. Referring to the confirmation letter by BGPL,
Ld DR relied on the order of the AO. When the Bench has brought to the notice of
the CIT-DR about the common letter of JBGJPL and BGPL, Ld DR relied on the
orders of the Revenue. On the applicability of provisions of section 68 to the
impugned transactions i.e., the transactions of repayment of Rs. 141,24,75,896/- by
JBGJPL by to the assessee, Ld DR mentioned that the failure of Mr. Jayesh to report
back to the AO in continuation of the proceedings u/s 131 of the Act, confirms the
absence of identity of the JBGJPL. As per Mr. Jayesh, the JBGJPL only filed the
return of income technically but not validly. On the allegation of business sense,
Jayesh explained the rationale of impugned payments and justified the same by
relying on the fact of obtaining the FD receipt of Rs 43 cr from Pen Cooperative
Bank Ltd as a security. Answer to Q. no 10 of the statement dated 12.2.2013 is 29 relevant. Referring to the Ld Counsel's argument that all the information explaining
the sources of payments and the creditworthiness of the JBGJPL regarding the
payment made on behalf of the three parties, Ld DR mentioned that the said details
were not fully examined by the AO. He also mentioned that Mr. Jayesh promised to
appear but never appeared before the AO. However, there is no dispute on the fact
that the requisite information was filed belatedly by Mr. Jayesh. Further, Ld DR
mentioned that the oral agreements regarding the guarantee are not to be bonafide.
Referring to the invoking of the provisions of section 68 of the Act, Ld DR mentioned
that the identity was particularly proved. Creditworthiness and genuineness are not
established by the assessee. It is the argument of the CIT-DR that no prudent
business men will ever accept third party liabilities to the tune of Rs.
141,24,75,896/- without written agreements. Ld DR has also mentioned that with a
turnover of Rs. 168 Crs, JBGJPL, which is non filer of Return, is not in a position to
give guarantee for Rs. 200 Crs. 42. During the rebuttal time, Ld Counsel for the assessee brought our
attention to the statement recorded u/s 131 from Mr. Jayesh and demonstrated from
the answers that the assessee has replied to all the questions relating to the sources
of funds of Rs. 141,24,75,896/- with the company (JBGJPL). Further, he brought
our attention to the tables reflecting the deposits and pay outs of the company's
account evidencing the sources of the same. Further details required to explain the
sources of the deposits into the accounts of the company, JBGJPL, the said company
can be put to test otherwise it may amount to examine the sources of the sources or
origin of origin, which is not permitted in law and the Ld. counsel relied on various
decisions in support of the same. They brought our attention to certain judgments
of the Hon'ble Supreme Court and also the judgment of the Hon'ble High Court of
Delhi in the case of Yadu Hari Dalmia vs. CIT [1980] 4 Taxman 525 (Delhi).
Otherwise, as per the Ld Counsel, the question of evidencing the part identity of the
assessee is not legally valid proposition as the assessee not only evidenced the
genuineness of JBGJPL and Mr. Jayesh, but also the concerned person of the
company. With the filing of confirmations and relevant details for evidencing the
source of Rs. 141,24,75,896/-, assessee has successfully evidenced the 30 creditworthiness and genuineness of the transactions. The Assessing Officer does
not have any evidence whatsoever to establish that the JBGJPL cum Mr. Jayesh do
not exist and the also the Revenue has failed to establish that the creditworthiness
and genuineness of the transactions suffer from any credibility. In such
circumstances, the explanation of the assessee cannot be rejected while invoking the
provisions of section 68 of the Act. Ld Counsel reiterated the assessee's criticism on
the AO's demand for tripartite agreement, which according to the Ld. Counsel shows
the lack of basic knowledge about the provisions of section 130 of the Transfer of
Property Act (T.P. Act) and transfer of ―actionable claim‖ and it is not the legal
requirement that the debtor should be party to the assignment agreement. The
assignee - JBGJPL, being a transferee is protected by the provisions of section 132 of the T.P. Act and he can claim recovery of debts directly from the debtors. In this
case, KAMPPL-BGPL, on the KAMPPL-BGPL, on the aspect of the genuineness of
transactions, ld Counsel relied on the Delhi High Court judgment in the case of M/s
Oyasis Hospitalities Pvt Ltd and the judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the
case of Mohan Kala. 43. Decision of the Tribunal: We have heard both the parties and perused
the orders of the Revenue Authorities and the paper books filed before us. K A MALE PHARMA- CEAUTICAL P LTD - Rs 27.68cr

 SPACE
 MARCHANTILE
 Co P LTD - Rs
 111.68 cr Sold
 Riddi
 Siddhi thru
 Sales to Jayesh Desai MSTC
 Bullion Ltd
 4 parties FOR - Assessee
 EXPORT
 BOND Gems TO UAE
 P LTD -Rs 1.89
 cr
 JPGJPL
 PAID
 Joshi Bullion
 Gems and Jew P
 Ltd - Paid Rs
 141.25 cr to RSBL 31 Flow Chart showing the sales of jewellery/debts - Repayments by JBGJPL 44. The above pictorial representation suggests the transactions of sales by
the assessee to four parties namely KAMCPL, SMCPL, BGPL AND JBGJPL. BGPL is the
sister concern of the JBGJPL and both are controlled by Jayesh Desai. The said
parties needs to pay trade debts to the assessee and figures are mentioned in the
picture above. JBGJPL also purchased gold jewellary from the assessee to the tune
of Rs 134,03,14,876/-. Otherwise, assessee had gross sales made to these four
parties to the tune Rs 329.51 cr as per the details here as under: 45. Sri Jayesh Desai of Joshi Bullion Gems & Jewelry P.Ltd and Bond Gems P
Ltd is claimed to be the main person in these transactions. Understandably,
assessee attempted successfully the recoveries of the said debts of rest of the two
other parties namely KAMPPL and SMCPL too. Assignment agreements are drawn
between the assessee and the JBGJPL and assessee recovered Rs 141.25 cr from
JBGJPL as per the said agreements. Consequently, assessee passed JV entries in its
books squaring up the accounts with the said parties' accounts. Assessee transferred
the ‗actionable claims‟ to JBGJPL in accordance with the provisions of section 130 of the Transfer of Property Act. 46. With the said background facts, the case of the revenue is that the
process of assignment of the debts to JBGJPL is invalid and therefore, the said
recovery constitutes ‗cash credits' within the meaning of section 68 of the Act. As a
part, AO reasons why JBGJPL needs to pay on behalf of the rest of the parties ie
KAMPPL and SMCPL. Of course, with regard to Bond Gems P Ltd, AO has different
objections. Auxiliary to the above, AO raised various other minor objections and they
are: (a). JBGJPL is not a guarantor for the said parties; (b). being new company with
little turn over, it does not have capacity to guarantee the transaction; (c). JBGJPL
does not have proper identity; (d). there is no business sense for the JBGJPL to clear 32 such a huge debts of others; (e). the assignment deeds are not reliable as they are
not tripartite and the debtors are not signatories to the agreements - hence no
consent is given for this arrangement; (f). other party - specific objections are: (i).
KAMPPL did not recognize the arrangement/assignment agreement and started
payment of the debts to the assessee instead of paying the same to the JBGJPL and
no confirmation is filed by this party; (ii). Space Marchantile does not exist at the
given address - notice u/s 131 is returned unserved; (iii). Confirmation letter filed by
the Bond Gems P Ltd is not acceptable as this company belongs to JBGJPL sharing
the same address belongs to JBGJPL. 47. On the other hand, the case of the assessee is that genuineness of the
sales to the said parties is not in dispute and therefore, the outstanding liabilities
from them are undisputed. This is for the reason that the assessee made sales much
higher than the existing liabilities and paid most of the sale consideration leaving
only Rs 141.25 cr all put gather. It is the contention of the assessee form the
beginning before the revenue and us that Sri Jayesh Desai is the main person not
only as the guarantor for the impugned sales but also for the defaults in payments if
any. Further it is the stand of the assessee that JBGJPL is under obligation to clear
the outstanding payments from these parties if he has to be in this line of business,
where the jewelers' community is very small and otherwise, well-knitted with one
another. If JBGJPL were not to pay the said liabilities, the same would not have been
in this jewelery industry due to the factors of credibility, reliability and dependability
which is required in this industry. Thus, the ‗word of mouth' assumes great
significance rather than the documentation or signatures. On the issues relating to
‗tripartite consignment agreements' cum absence of consent of the debtors in the
said agreements, the stand of the assessee is that the same is uncalled for in view
of the settled legal proposition qua the provisions of section 130 of the Transfer of
Property Act. Regarding the non cooperative stand of KAMPPL and Space Mercantile
Co P Ltd qua this assignment arrangement involving JBGJPL as the assignee, it the
case of the assessee that the parties very much exist and the same is evident from
the fact (i) they are assessed to tax, (ii) they purchased gold jewellery from the 33 assessee and others, (iii) they hold bank accounts and transacted with the assessee
using the banking channels, (iv) they are covered by the investigation by the CBI,
Mumbai, (v) they are duly incorporated in the records of Registrar of the companies
etc. Mere absence of failure to service the notice u/s 131 of the Act, no adverse
inference needs to be taken against the assessee. Assessee also displayed strong
objection to the decision of the AO in denying the demand for cross examination of
the KAMPPL, who earlier stated against the assessee in the statement. The said
debtors are aware of the assignment arrangement and despite the same, one of the
party paid a sum of Rs 1.72 cr to the Assessee after recovery of Rs 141.25 cr from
JBGJPL and the same was duly transferred to the assignee-JBGJPL. Assessee further
stated that the debtors have not legally challenged the said arrangement of JBGJPL
paying the debts to the assessee on behalf of the said parties. Referring to the
invoking of the provisions of section 68 of the Act, the assessee assailed the same
and submitted the said JBGJPL has the credit entry in the books of the assessee.
Therefore, if the payment of Rs 141.25 cr is carefully analysed, Sri JBGJPL has
become the creditor by virtue of the taking over of the impugned liabilities of the
parties. The said liabilities are paid to the assessee by JBGJPL during the year.
JBGJPL is identifiable. He has adequate sources of income to justify the claim.
Unconnected to the mess, the impugned parties are into qua the MSTC scam, the
transaction of payment of Rs 141.25 cr to the assessee JBGJPL is clean and there is
suspicious circumstance attached to the said transaction. Considering the above, it is
the case of the assessee that the provisions of section 68 of the Act are invalidly
invoked for making addition of Rs 141.25 cr by the AO and confirmed by the CIT(A). 48. With the divergent stands narrated above, we shall now concise the issues
to be addressed here and shall take up the same for adjudication. They are: (i)
General objections of the Revenue and (ii) Specific Objections. First, we shall deal
with the general objections; namely Business sense and validity of the Consignment
agreements. Thus, regarding the Business Sense: Whether there is any business
sense in JBGJPL paying outstanding arrears of Rs 141.25 cr to the assessee on
behalf of the said three parties. Regarding the deficiency in the assignment 34 Agreements - Whether the absence of consent by the debtors and the bipartite
nature of the assignment agreements involving only the assessee and the JBGJPL,
renders them invalid. We shall take these issue in the succeeding paragraphs. 49. Business Sense: JBGJPL is the company in this industry for many years.
There is some confusion in the mind of the AO about its position in the market. AO is
of the wrong opinion that the same is a new company with little turnover. But the
fact is that the same changed its name. Further, this company is one such
company, which made purchases from the assessee independently along with other
three companies namely KAMPPL, SMCPL and Bond Gems P Ltd (sister concern of
JBGJPL). All these companies were engaged by the MSTC for supply of the gold
jewellery and for exporting them in the name of the MSTC, a public sector company.
That makes one thing clear they are not unknown parties to one another during
their favourable times. From the facts placed before us, we find all these four
companies together are party to the scam unearthed by the CBI and the same is in
the public knowledge through the print media too. The Ld. Counsel for the assessee
made a statement at BAR to the same effect based on the copy of the ‗charge sheet'
in their possession filed by the CBI. Further also, the facts of assessee's sales to
these four parties and consequent ‗receivables of the trade liabilities' and their
genuineness are undisputed. All these parties paid the liabilities on their own
directly to the assessee leaving the said gross outstanding liabilities of Rs 141.25 cr.
Resultantly, by all means, the attempts of the assessee for effecting recoveries from
them individually or from JBGJPL on behalf of the others, is a commercial decision of
the assessee. Therefore, from the assessee's point of view, receiving the said
amount from JPGJPL makes a business sense. Now coming to the JBGJPL, if it makes the same, we find the JPGJPL is
headed by Jayesh Desai and he is the core person in the whole scheme of the scam.
While Mr Desai holds the control and management of M/s Bond Gems P Ltd, we find
he, as the controller of JBGJPL and in the status of the ‗co-beneficiary -cum- co-
accuser', assumes significance qua the impugned three parties. Certainly, M/s
JBGJPL cannot be held unconnected and non responsible entity in the scheme and 35 peculiar circumstances of this case. Along with other three concerns, JBGJPL is the
co-accused in the scam and all of them are alleged to be beneficiaries of the scam
funds too. Further, it is the fact that while the JBGJPL has paid all the outstanding
liabilities to the assessee, rest of the three parties including Bond Gems P Ltd, who
are the alleged beneficiaries of the scam money still standing in their books as well
as the books of the assessee as its debtors. In such circumstances, in our opinion, it
is the prudence of the assessee, to enter into ‗assignment agreement' with the
JBGJPL, who is the co-accused by the CBI along with Bond Gems P Ltd and two
others. On these reasoning, we need to examine if the addition in the hands of the
assessee on the ground of the ‗business prudence' and invoking of the provisions of section 68 of the Act are justified. We have already held that the assessee is justified
in effecting recoveries even from the third parties ie JBGJPL, the co-accused and co-
beneficiary in the MSTC's scam. At the same time, from the other angle, if the
JPGJPL is justified in entering into ‗assignment agreement' or not, in our opinion,
needs to examined in the assessment of JBGJPL, which is under scrutiny u/s 147 r w
sectin 143(2) of the Act. As stated in the statement taken on oath from Jayesh
Desai, it is his submission, which is not controverted with the evidence by the AO
that it is the commercial decision for JBGJPL-Jayesh Desai to make the payment of
Rs 141.25 cr on behalf of the MKPPL, SMCPL and Bond Gems p Ltd. When the
assignee considers the ‗business prudence' to make the payments, certainly on the
strength of his ability to recover the same from the actual debtors on the strength of
the actionable claims transferred by the assessee to JBGJPL, we find no reason for
the authorities below to reject the said explanation of the assessee on flimsy
grounds such as (i) no consent of the debtors; (ii) assignment agreements are not
properly made etc. Now we shall deal with assignment agreement dt 1.3.2009 and
analyze here as under: 50. Questionability of the Assignment Agreement: page 667 - 668/PB6): The following is the scanned copy of the said Assignment Agreement.
For the sake of the completeness of this order, the same is inserted here as under:- 51. In continuation of the above extracted assignment agreement, we have
perused the confirmation of the debts by the debtors. For example, the extract from
the ‗Copy of the confirmation dt 31.3.2010 by the KA Malle to the Assignee: (pp 815)' reads as under: 52. Thus, we have perused the (i) copies of the confirmations of the assigned
amounts between the assessee and the JBGJPL/BGPL (pages 664 to 666of the PB)
and also between the assessee and KA Malle P P Ltd (page 815), (ii) copy of the
letters and reminders from the assessee demanding the debtors to clear arrears
(page 774 relevant for Space and page 776 relevant for KA Malle) before the
assignment agreements (pages 667-670 of the PB) with regard to both debtors
which are signed on 1.3.2009;(iii). Copies of the said assignment deed dt 1 st March
2009 and assigning the sums of Rs 111,67,70,622/- involving Space MCPL and Rs
27,67,69,687/-involving KA Male PPL. According to the said agreements, the
assignee-JBGJPL is known to both the assessee and the Space and KA Malle and it
was mutually decided that hereafter, the dues are receivable by the assessee-
assignor from the assignee-JBGJPL. The assignor obtained the confirmation from the
debtors (para (iv) of the assignment deed and they bear the signature of the agreed
parties, if not signed by the witnesses. Giving effect to the same, the assignee
started the recovery proceeding after intimating them of the assignment of
actionable claims and filed civil suits against both Space MCPL (page 676-715 of
the paper book) and KA Malle (pages 783-858 of the paper book). The perusal of
these suits clearly indicates the assignee's total reliance on the said assignment
deeds, confirmations, above said correspondence among the asssessee, assignee
and the defaulted debtors. As per the civil suit, the defaults debtors approached the
JBGJPL to clear the dues to the assessee and narrated the spoiled relationships with
the assessee and referred to loss of goodwill, bad image/reputation built up in the
Industry about them and, in reply JBGJPL signed the assignment deeds and paid the
arrears to the assessee. However, the debtors failed to pay the same to the assignee
(page 684 of the PB). Space MCPL confirmed the dues payable to the assignee vide
letter dated 31.3.2010 too. Thus, the documents cited above suggest that the existence of the
undisputed debts payable by the defaulted debtors on the one side and the
undisputed fact of assignment of the actionable claims on the other. Confirmations
from all the involved parties are on record. In such circumstances, the AO's decision
to reject such valuable evidence and proceed to make addition of the said debts are
completely contrary to set procedure of assessment. 52. Legal Provisions upholding the validity of the Assignment
Agreements: Now we shall also attend to the assessee's argument touching upon
the applicability of the provisions of section 130 of the Transfer of Property Act,
1882 and section 2(d) of the Contract Act, 1872, which are extracted as under:- Exception.-- Nothing in this section applies to the transfer of a marine or fire policy of
 insurance 2[ or affects the provisions of section 38 of the Insurance Act, 1938 (4 of 1938 )‖ Section 2(d) in The Indian Contract Act, 1872 ―(d) When, at the desire of the promisor, the promisee or any other person has done or
 abstained from doing, or does or abstains from doing, or promises to do or to abstain from
 doing, something, such Act or abstinence or promise is called a consideration for the
 promise:‖ 53. Referring to the above provisions of Ld AR for the assessee mentioned
that the ‗debts' involved constitutes actionable claims and the same were transferred
by the assessee-transferor by virtue of the assignment deed to the assignee-JBGJPL,
who got the authority to recover the same. The transferee is in the process of
recovery and civil suits/legal notices filed or issued by the assignee evidences the
same. In such circumstances, the payments made by the JBGJPL to the assessee are 39 legally sustainable and valid. On the facts of this case with legal background brought
out by the Ld Counsel for the assessee, we find the argument of the assessee is
valid. Therefore, we find no mistake in process of assignment of the actionable
rights. As regards, the absence of signature of the witness on the assignment deed,
it is pertinent to mention that it is the parties in the assignor and the assignee of the
deed to dispute the effectiveness of the deed in the absence of the same being
witnessed. Once the obligations undertaken under the deed are duly acted upon by
the parties it is not the prerogative of the Revenue to dispute the validity of the deed
on the basis that the same is not witnessed. It is needless to further emphasis that
transfer of actionable claim does not require the consent of the debtor nor the
assignment deed requires the debtor also to be party to the said deed. Also,
according to the provisions of section 2(d) of the Indian Contract Act, consideration
may be paid by any person at the desire of the provision, in the instant case, the
assessee in relation to the delivery of goods to the buyers. It is also a relevant fact to mention that one of the defaulted debtor namely Space
Marchantile Co P Ltd paid a sum of Rs 1.72 cr (page 661of the paper book) on
6.3.2009 to the assignor after the assignment deed dt 1.3.2009 was signed and the
said sum was duly transferred to the assignee immediately. This transaction also
suggests the compliance of the parties to the consignment deeds. Therefore, we find
no reason to question the explanation of the assessee relating to the assignment
deeds and other related documentation. Now we shall take up other important legal issue raised by the assessee relating to
the applicability of the provisions of section 68 of the Act. 54. Applicability of the provisions of section 68 of the Act: It is the
claim of the revenue that the invoking of the provisions of section 68 of the Act is
validly done by the Act. Per contra, it is the case of the assessee that there is no
case for invoking the same. Details are already discussed in the preceding
paragraphs. We shall analyse the same. The said provisions read as follows: 55. The provisions suggests the identity, credit worthiness, genuineness of the
transaction and satisfaction of the AO are various ingredients and the assessee is
under obligation to demonstrate the same, when a cash credit is found in the books
of the assessee. Once the preliminary onus is discharged by the assessee, it is for
the AO to rebut the same before making addition under these provisions. As such,
these are anti tax-evasion oriented provisions and onus is greatly on the AO. We
shall now examine the application of the provisions to the facts of present case. a. Identity of the creditor ie JBGJPL

JBGJPL, bearing the PAN AACCJ 0316R, is a company engaged in the business of
trading of the precious metal, studded diamond and diamond jewellery. The same is
incorporated as company in July 2008. Otherwise, the assessee was in existence in
different status over decades. Prior to corporatisation, the JBGJPL was a partnership
firm in the name of Joshi Bullion Gems and Jewellery from AY 2005-06 onwards. In
that AY, the firm registered the sales nearly 304 crores. (page 1321 of the PB),
293.40 cr in AY 2006-07 (page 1322), 436.50 cr in AY 2007-08 (page 1323), 330.41
cr in the AY 2008-09 (page 1324) etc. Technically, the Assessee filed its first return
in the status of company for the AY 2009-10 (634) with some problems attached.
Assessee reported to the department the sales turnover of Rs 193.21 cr for the said 41 AY. Accounts of the assessee are audited by the statutory auditors namely Kaushik
Kr Shah and Associates and they impugned debts are duly reflected in the books of
the assignee under the schedule sundry debtors (copy placed at page 651 of the
PB). The said company is headed by Sri Jayesh R Desai s/o Ramanlal Desai
(45years) as a Director apart from other two directors namely Rupesh Desaid and
Dhaivat H Vikharia. (page 604 of PB). Further, Bond Gems P Ltd is the sister concern
of the JBGJPL. Jayesh Desai responded to the notice dt 5.2.13 u/s 131 of the Act on
behalf of the JBGJPL and deposed statement on oath on 12.2.2013 at 3 pm in
accordance with the terms and conditions of the said notice. Mr Desai responded to
32 long questions and statement is placed at page 604 to 611 of the paper book. As
a follow up, Mr desai also furnished promised information in the tapals to the AO. AO
has in fact did not doubt the ‗identity' of the creditor. In fact, it is the CIT(A), who
raised the issue of identity. Otherwise, the AO is rightly satisified about the same.
With so much of information available on records about the JPGJPL, it is unfortunate
that the revenue held that the identity is only partly proved. In our opinion, CIT(A) is
proper in coming to the said conclusion and therefore, we confirm the argument of
the assessee's counsel on this issue of ‗identity' and decide in favour of the
assessee. b. Creditworthiness of the creditor ie JBGJPL

Revenue holds that the JBGJPL is not credit worth to provide oral guarantee to Rs
141.25 crores. But the AO/ CIT(A) adopted a short-signed approach with pre-
mediated mind to somehow make addition u/s 68 of the Act and they have not
appreciated all the facts and background of the assessee. They have not considered
the fact that the assessee was in existence before corporatization. Prior to the same,
the assessee existed as Partnership Firm and registered multiple 100's to cr of
turnover of sales. Prior to corporatization, the JBGJPL was a partnership firm in the
name of Joshi Bullion Gems and Jewellary from AY 2005-06 onwards. In that AY, the
firm registered the sales nearly 304 crores. (page 1321 of the PB), 293.40 cr in AY
2006-07 (page no. 1322 of the PB), 436.50 cr in AY 2007-08 (page 1323), 330.41 cr
in the AY 2008-09 (page 1324) etc. During the deposition of Sri Desai on 12.2.2013 42 at 3 pm, in response to the questions on the sources of funds to clear the earlier, it
was mentioned that he has credit worthiness and filed number of statements/bank
extracts to evidence the ability to pay the sum of Rs 141.25 cr (page 671 to 675 of
the PB). These papers were filed before the AO undisputedly and there were no
further enquiries conducted or intended to be conducted by the AO. In that sense,
the assessee discharged the onus and the onus of rebutting the same shifted to the
revenue. Therefore, the conclusions of the CIT(A) on this limb of section 68 of the
Act are not based on sound reasoning. c. Genuineness of the transaction of the creditor ie JBGJPL

Genuineness of the transaction of impugned cash credit needs to be examined from
the angle of the parties involved in the impugned transaction. The sum of Rs 131.25
cr was paid by the Josh Bullion Gems and Jewellery P Ltd (JBGJPL) and the same
was received by the assessee. In the preceding paragraphs, we have discussed how
the two parties are genuine and their identity is beyond doubt. We have also
analysed and held that m/s JBGJPL has the ability to pay the said amount to
asssessee. Valid transfer of the ‗actionable claims' qua the assignment deeds are
also upheld. In such circumstances, we find no reason to invoke the provisions of section 68 of the Act. Yes, there is a problem of MSTC scam and resultant filing of the cases by
the CBI on the assignee one side and other debtors on the other. Close reading of
the transactions of payment of the sum of Rs 141.25 cr to the assessee, suggests
that the assessee is the co-sufferor (exporters have not paid their debts to the
assessee) along with the MSTC and we should distinguish the same from the
other mess revolving around the MSTC scam. This appears to be the reason that the
CBI has not included the assessee while booking the scamsters. We find no fault
with the assessee in effecting recoveries of the eligible debts from the debtors by all
means, either direct as well as the indirect methods. In that sense of the matter,
the transaction of payment of Rs 141.25 cr should be considered as genuine
transaction for the purpose of section 68 of the Act. d. Satisfaction of the AO

From the perusal of the orders of the revenue, we find that the AO made additions
by rejecting assessee's arguments based on the assignment agreements and failed
to find the ‗business sense' in the payments made by the M/s JBGJPL. Other
deficiencies include absence of consent of the debtors to the scheme of assignment,
the absence of signatures of the witnesses on the documents, failure to serve the
notices u/s 131 on a debtor and the express derecognistion of the debtors to the
said scheme of assignment. In the preceding paragraphs of this order, we have dealt
with each of the issues and upheld the validity of the ‗scheme of assignment'
considering the express legal provisions under various Acts. Considering the same,
we are of the opinion that the dissatisfaction of the AO is misplaced. e. Sources of the Sources/Origin of the origin

We are now dealing with the provisions of section 68 of the Act to the transactions
of payments of Rs 141.25 cr by JBGJPL to the assessee and the entries in the books
of accounts of the assessee, the seller of the goods. Creditworthiness of the creditor
has already been discussed above. As part of the same, it is one of the arguments of
the Ld DR that the sources of the funds of JBGJPL are unexplained. In this regard
we have examined both the statement of Sri Jayesh R Desai given on behalf of the
JBGJPL and also the documents filed by him (page 671 to 675 of the PB) providing
the details of funds flow for the year under consideration. The said documents
provide for day-to-day deposits and payment made to the assessee by JBGJPL, as
guarantor-turned-assignee, amounting to Rs 141.25 cr. It is undisputed fact they are
filed before the AO/CIT(A) before September 2013, the date of the impugned order.
Questions no 13, 23 etc of the statement dt 12.2.13, supra and corresponding
answers are relevant here. Per contra, it is the case of the assessee's AR that the
assessee answered to all the queries on this issue of sources of funds to pay the
sum amounting to Rs 141.25 cr with the documentary evidences. As per LD AR,
considering the period prior to corporatization, the high trade turnovers narrated
supra of the JBGJPL, its imposing standing in the industry, providing guarantee to 44 the assessee for the trade liabilities of the impugned three parties are justified. So
far as the sources of the funds in the books of the JBGJPL to account for the payouts
of Rs 141.25 cr, it is the case of assessee that the sources are explained already and
the primary onus is discharged by the creditor successfully. Thus, the attempts of
the Ld CIT-DR is to justify the addition based on the argument that the assessee
failed to explain the sources of the creditor constitutes ‗sources of sources‟ or
„origin of origin‟ which is not permitted in law and to support the proposition, the
Ld. A.R. relied on various binding judgments. As per Ld Counsel, in case of any
suspicion or doubt in the minds of the authorities, they should examine the same in
the case of the JBGJPL, which is the subject matter of criminal proceedings by the
CBI. It is also brought to our notice that the revenue already reopened the
assessment of JBGJPL for the relevant AY 2009-10. In support, the assessee filed
the copy of the letter to the AO dt 5.12.13 referring to issuance of notice u/s 148 of
the Act (pages1328 of the PB). Concerned AO of the assessees confirmed the same
during the proceedings before us. Thus, considering the discharge of onus by the
assessee, we are of the opinion, it is the case of revenue attempting to area of
„sources of sources‟ or „origin of origin‟ which is not permitted in law. So far as
this assessee is concerned, we are of the consideration opinion that the impugned
addition is not justified u/s 68 of the Act. 56. Debtor Specific Objections: AO raised and relied on a couple of
issues for making the said addition of Rs 141.25 cr. referring to the statement of M/s
KAMPPL. The AO mentioned that this debtor refused to give consent to the bipartite
‗scheme of assignment'. Referring to the other debtor namely, M/s Space PPL, AO
holds the said party is not available for service of the notice u/s 131 of the Act.
Regarding the third debtor namely, M/s Bond Gems Pvt. Ltd, AO's objection relates
sharing of the common address of the assignee. 57. In our opinion, these issues do not anyway become relevant once the
‗scheme of assignment' is valid legally. We have already held that the bipartite
agreement constitutes a valid one considering the provisions of section 130 of the
TP Act. Further, the service of notice on M/s Space PPL cannot alone be the ground 45 to come to the inference adverse to the assessee. AO ought to have seen the fact
that the debtor has made lots of purchases, exports, banking transactions,
investigation and finalizing charge sheet by the CBI on the said debtor etc.
Regarding M/s Bond Gems Pvt. Ltd, the AO's objection is not sustainable legally. 58. Therefore, considering the above detailed discussion and analysis, we are
of the view that the objections of the AO or CIT(A) are not sustainable. Accordingly,
the ground 6 of the assessee's appeal is allowed. 59. Ground no.7 relates to the addition of Rs. 9,43,68,687/- made on
account of sale of gold jewellery to K.A. Malle Pharmaceuticals P. Ltd. (KAMPPL). In
connection with the transaction, the special auditors commented that the assessee
delivered relevant goods on 24.10.2008, whereas the sale took place on 31.10.2008.
The stock register of the assessee does not indicate the outward movement of the
said jewelry on 24.10.008. AO noted that the date in the books is mentioned as
23.10.2008 wrongly. It is the claim of the assessee that the goods were transferred
on 24.10.2008 and the relevant invoice was actually raised on the party on
31.10.2008. AO did not accept the explanation of the assessee that such delivery is
possible between the familiar parties. As per the assessee, the delivering the goods
in advance and the invoice is raised subsequently is part of the business of this kind.
Otherwise, it is a fact found in the books that there are no entries in the stock
registers from 24th to 31st October, 2008. AO rejected the explanation of the
assessee and made the impugned addition. Otherwise, there is no incriminating
evidence with the AO about the alleged unaccounted sales of the goods. During the
first appellate proceeding, the CIT (A) noticed that the stock register does not
indicate reduction of stock on 24.10.2008 and the same was reduced only on
31.10.2008 on the basis of invoice raised. It is the logic of the CIT(A) that when
there is delivery of goods on 24th October, the stock register should have reflected
reduction to that extent. But the fact that there is no delivery/transfer of goods
thereafter till 31st October when the goods are actually sold by raising the invoice dt
31st October. The inaccuracy is with reference to the said delivery of goods on 24 th
October. Is such inaccuracy good enough to make additions without having any 46 further corroborative evidences in possession of the AO against the assessee?
Should not have the AO made addition considering the fact it amounts double
addition as the said sum of Rs 9,43,68,687/- is part of the outstanding balances of
Rs 27,67,69,687 involving KAMPPL u/s 68 of the Act. However, CIT (A) confirmed
the addition made by the AO vide para 28 of his order. The reasons for confirming
the same are that ‗ But the case of the Department is that sum paid by M/s Joshi
Bullion is for reasons unknown to the Department and therefore, brought o tax as
unexplained income u/s 68 of the Act which view was already upheld vide ground no
‗d' above. In view of this it is hereby held that there is no double taxation. Since the
stock position as on 24.10.2008 does not reflect the sale as on that date, the
addition of Rs 9,43,68,687/- made by the AO is here by upheld.‖ (part of the para 28). Aggrieved with the decision of the CIT (A), assessee is in appeal before
Tribunal by raising the above mentioned ground no.7. 60. During the proceedings before us, assessee submitted the copy of the
delivery challan dt 24.10.2008 in support of the book entry and also the copy of
invoice dt 31.10.2008 and it is noted that the same were furnished to the special
auditors too. As such, there are no adverse comments on the bona fides of the said
delivery challan and the raising of invoices at later time were justified. Yes, there is
some problem with the stock register and the way they are maintained such as
corresponding reduction of goods is not reflected. Relying on the page 576 of the
paper book no.3, Ld Counsel argued to evidence that the material sold to KAMPPL
was received from labour job worker on 24.10.2008. He also relied on the labour
charges bill copy, which is placed at 579 to 580 of the PB 3. He also furnished the
copy of the security agency delivery note and the copy of invoice dated 31.10.2008.
It is the argument of the assessee that the delivery notice is dated 24.10.2008 and
the invoice dated 31.10.2008. There is no discrepancy in the stock register so far as
the stock quantity is concerned. In such circumstances, without rejecting the books
of account no addition can be made validly. 61. On the other hand, Ld DR relied on the order of the AO and the CIT (A). 62. We have heard both the parties and perused the orders of the Revenue
Authorities and the relevant papers placed before us. It is the case of the Assessing
Officer that the sale invoice is later in time in the process he ignored the fact about
the labour charges bill, delivery of the relevant material by labourers of the
assessee, entry in the books of accounts on 24.10.2008, the date on which material
was delivered to KAMPPL invoice bill was dated 31.10.2008. It is a fact that there
are no transactions from 24.10.2008 to 31.10.2008. It is also a fact that there is no
discrepancy so far as the quantum of stock is concerned as on 31.3.2009. The
Assessing Officer does not have any incriminating material to suggest that the
assessee has sold the material received from the labourers on 24.10.2008. Further,
in our opinion, the arguments of the assessee about the double addition are
dismissed by the CIT(A) giving flimsy reasons. Relevant parts from his order are
already extracted above. Considering the tallying of the stock register in the
absence of the discrepancies, we are of the opinion that the decision of the CIT (A)
in this regard is required to be reversed. Accordingly, ground no. 7 raised by the
assessee is allowed. 63. Ground no.8 relates to the disallowance of commission paid of
Rs.1,28,75,553/-. This ground has two segments namely Rs. 1,26,94,987 and Rs.
1,80,566/-. Relevant basic details are discussed by the AO in para 6 of his order.
The said para starts with the fact that assessee claimed commission expenses of Rs.
4,98,20,829/- in the profit and loss account. This issue was referred to the special
auditors. The said commission is claimed to have been incurred for obtaining ― buyer
credit facility from banks‖. After establishing the nexus and other relevant details,
the special auditors held a sum of Rs. 1,26,94,987/- was found not eligible for want
of nexus related details. Further, regarding another payment of commission of Rs.
1,80,566/- incurred for client introduction, the special auditors held that no
documentary evidence was available in support of the claim. During the assessment
proceedings, Assessing Officer granted opportunity to the assessee to establish the
nexus vide its letter 19.7.2012. Assessee furnished reply dated 4.8.2012 along with
confirmation letters from third parties. AO did not accept the same mentioning that 48 filing the confirmation without establishing the nexus of the expenses of the
business to the assessee, the claim is not allowable. Accordingly, the AO invoked
the provisions of section 37 of the Act and made addition of Rs. 1,26,94,987/-. With
regard to the commission expenses paid of Rs. 1,80,566/-, incurred for client
introduction, assessee submitted that the said amount was paid for clientage in the
RSBL Spot i.e., Online trading platform for (i) marketing executive / agents; (ii)
brokers for bullion deals and (iii) remissory commission in case of MCX and furnished
relevant correspondences. It is the claim of the assessee that this expenditure was
incurred wholly and exclusively for the purpose of the assessee's business and
therefore, it is an allowable expenditure u/s 37 of the Act. However, AO did not
consider the same as a satisfactory explanation and disallowed the same holding
that (i) no evidence was furnished establishing the genuineness of expenses and (ii)
mere filing of the confirmation letters from the alleged parties does not establish the
genuineness of expenses. Accordingly, AO made addition of Rs. 1,80,566/-. Matter
travelled to the CIT (A). Para 29 to 31 of the impugned order are relevant here. 64. During the proceedings before the CIT (A), assessee made written
submissions which are extracted at para 30 of the impugned order. On considering
the said reply, CIT (A) confirmed the addition made by the AO with regard to the
sum of Rs. 1,26,94,987/-. The AO, however, did not deal with the sum of Rs.
1,80,566/-. Regarding the addition of Rs. 1,26,94,987/-, the decision of the CIT (A)
is given as under: 65. During the proceedings before us, Ld Counsel for the assessee mentioned
that the Revenue Officers were completely prejudiced against the assessee and they 49 have mechanically confirmed the addition without considering the evidence furnished
by him. Another addition of Rs. 1,80,566/- is concerned, there is no whisper about
the same by the CIT (A). Ld Counsel further mentioned that the special auditors
have analyzed the nexus of certain transactions on sample basis and the
transactions (buyer credit facility) with the bank are not examined excessively. If a
chance is given, the assessee shall be happy to furnish all the transactions and
established the transactions' nexus excessively. 66. On the other hand, Ld DR does not have any objection if the matter is
remanded to the file of the AO for executing the above statement of the Ld
Counsel made at Bar. 67. On hearing both the parties, we find it necessary to remand this issue
to the file of the AO. AO is directed to examine all the transactions involving ‗buyer
credit facility' qua the commission payments to the banks as well as the genuineness
of the commission payment of Rs. 1,80,566/- and re-adjudicate the issue afresh
after granting a reasonable opportunity of being heard to the assessee. Accordingly,
ground no. 8 is allowed for statistical purposes. 68. Ground no. 9 relates to the confirming of disallowance of loss of Rs.
49,73,46,618/- incurred in diamond trade. Relevant facts in this regard are given in
para 7 of the assessment order and para 32 of the impugned order. As per the
assessment order, it is mentioned that assessee made local purchases of diamonds
amounting to Rs. 39.24 Crs for export purpose. Assessee exported the same to M/s.
Leo Diamonds LLC for Rs. 40.73 Crs. Assessee earned gross trading profit of Rs.
1,48,66,374/-. Further, assessee also imported diamonds from UAE based 5 parties
amounting to Rs. 2819.20 Crs and exported the same to another 5 parties for a sum
of Rs. 2769.46 Crs. These import and export related activity resulted in earning of
gross trading loss of Rs. 49,73,46,618/-. During the special audit proceedings, after
hearing the assessee, the special auditors submitted their observations on the
allowability of this claim for the assessee. According to the special auditors, it is an
undisputed fact that the assessee imported the diamonds and the same were 50 exported for lower price than their import cost. These transactions were not
supported by the purchase orders. The suppliers as well as the purchasers of the
imports and exports are not related to the assessee. Export activity took few days
from the date of import of diamonds. 69. During the assessment proceedings, in response to the AO's show cause
notice, proposing the disallowance amounting to Rs. 48,88,49,587/- (Rs.
49,73,46,618 - Rs. 1,48,66,374), dated 19.7.2012, the assessee replied vide its
letter dated 4.8.2008. In the said letter, the core statement revolves around the fact
that the loss quantified above is not proper considering the fact that the overall
import and export activity of the assessee over a couple of years has resulted an
earning of the overall gross profit of Rs. 15.23 Crs, if the mercantile system of
accounting is not considered. Otherwise, loss so disallowed by the AO falls within
the previous year under consideration is undisputed to the extent of
Rs.4,20,05,587/-. AO considered the above submissions of the assesssee and
rejected the same. There was a discussion about the details of the 10 parties which
includes 5 suppliers and 5 purchasers of the diamonds. There are total of around
250 transactions. Out of the purchases of the diamonds from the assessee, one of
the companies is headed by Mr. Rajesh Kothari, Managing Director of M/s. AL
Khayal Al Dhahabi Jewellery LLC, Dubai. He happened to be the nephew of the
directors of the company. This is contrary to the assessee's submissions that none of
the parties connected to the assessee. As per the assessee, Shri Rajesh Kothari is
not connected to the business transactions. Further, it was submitted that exports
and imports are genuine as they are done involving customs clearance with support
documents. As per the assessee, the diamonds were sold at loss to bring in the
fresh customers into the business operations. Further, there are always positive
figures if ―interest earned on the margins in the form of fixed deposits kept with the
banks for securing the buyers credit and the interest charges paid on such credit
coupled with expenses like Forward Rate agreement and other charges on the
borrowed sums are considered‖. As per the Revenue, it is a pre-determined loss
and therefore, it questions the genuine business transaction. The stock register
does not indicate the quality and size of the diamonds when examined by the AO. AO also mentioned that one Mr. Visal Jain supposed to be the employee of the
assessee, who is aware of the intricacies of these transactions, to represent before
the AO and did not turn up on that day scheduled in the notice u/s 131 of the Act.
It was duly certified by him. When further enquiries were conducted by the AO, the
assessee submitted that he was unaware of the whereabouts of Mr. Vishal Jain as
was not in touch with him since 2009. AO further discussed the necessity of lifting
of the corporate veil and relied on various decisions in this regard. At the end, AO
took objection to the fact of earning trading loss of Rs. 49,73,46,618/- from export
made out of imports when local trading earned profit of Rs. 1,48,66,374/-,
mentioning that the said imports and exports are not supported by purchase orders.
Considering the non-compliance of Mr. Vishal Jain and relationship of the
transactions with Mr Rajesh Kothari, AO came to the conclusion that the entire
transactions are entered into only to avail ‗buyer credit facility' in India which
provides low interest rates and pass on a part of the profits to the imports.
Eventually, AO made addition by holding the following. ―In view of the above discussion, it becomes reasonably clear that the main intention
 of the assessee was to set off the arbitrage income earned from the interest
 difference between the interest on buyer's credit and that on margins in the form of
 fixed deposits kept with the banks against such credits by creating artificial and non-
 genuine business losses. Therefore, the loss amounting to Rs. 49,73,46,618/- is
 hereby disallowed and added back to the total income of the assessee. Penalty
 proceedings u/s 271(1)(c) are hereby separately initiated for furnishing inaccurate
 particulars of income and concealment of income.‖

Aggrieved with the above addition of Rs. 49,73,46,618/-, the assessee filed an
appeal before the CIT (A). 70. During the proceedings before the first appellate authority, assessee filed
written submissions which are detailed in para 33 of the impugned order. On
perusal of the said submissions, CIT (A) upheld the addition made by the AO as per
the discussion given in para 34 of the impugned order. However, there is no
analysis as to how Rs. 15.23 Crs of profit was earned in this line of business over the
years. The absence of purchase orders connectivity of Mr. Mr Rajesh Kothari to the
imports and exports and unusual transaction of exporting what is imported with a
time gap of few days added to the suspicion of the authorities. The round tripping 52 transactions was also cited by the AO in his remand report dated 18.4.2013. The
circumstantial evidences indicate what is claimed by the assessee is not real. Finally,
CIT (A) confirmed the disallowance of loss in diamond trade added by the AO.
Aggrieved by the impugned decision, the assessee has raised this ground in the
appeal before us. 71. Having heard both the sides and perused the material on record, it is
pertinent to mention that the study of the transactions reveal that the real intention
of the assessee was to earn the interest arbitrage difference in rates of
interest. The moment the export sales are received, assessee deposited the same
with the bank and earned the bank interest @ 8 to 9%. The same appears to be
profitable to the assessee even after payment of guarantee commission and other
incidental charges paid to the bank. Using the Fixed Deposits helps the assessee to
avail the ‗buyers credit facility' with the banks, which is profitable to the assessee.
The transaction as a whole involves purchase and export diamonds, advance or
immediate realizations of the export realizations, investment in FDs, availing buyer's
credit against FDRs, interest rates and commission rates, Forex gains/losses. It is
relevant to state that no law is violated by the assessee by these arbitrage
transactions and the same is a common practice. It is also relevant to note that the
special auditors, on the issue of diamond trading and profit, have found no infirmity
in transaction except that there are no purchase orders for purchases. It is further
relevant to mention that the special auditors have analyzed around 50 transactions
and has not given any adverse comments. It is noted that the assessee has not
availed any export benefit in the business of diamond trading. The manner in which
the assessee has carried out the diamond trade is a means of raising finance, which
is not illegal. Assessee is aware how to run the business and AO cannot step in the
judgment over the same. The said proposition is supported by the decision of the
Allahabad High Court in the case of Abbas Wazir (P.) Ltd. v. Commissioner of
Income-tax , 265 ITR 77. Further, the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the
case of Commissioner of Income-tax Vs Dr. T.A. Qureshi (MP ) 275 ITR 352 relied
on by the Ld. further supports the claim of the assessee that that ‗moral issues
cannot override the legal issues'. 72. As regards the contention of the Ld DR that the identity of parties to
whom sales have been made is unknown, absence of purchase orders, one of the
sales parties is a related concern, we are of the considered view that the said
contention cannot be the basis for sustain the disallowance in view of the fact that
the transaction is genuine as the same have been done to earn arbitrage income
and the export/import has been done through due customs clearance. Regarding the
further contention that the imported materials are exported immediately within a
period of one to two days does not have any impact as the same is not prohibited by
law and in the light of earning the arbitrage income. 73. In view of the aforementioned discussion, we are of the considered view
that the authorities below are not justified in making/confirming the impugned
disallowance/addition on this count and the same is deleted. Resultantly, ground 9
is allowed. 74. Ground no 10 is not pressed as aforementioned. 75. Ground no.11 relates to the issue of short deduction of TDS and invoking
of the provisions of section 40(a)(ia) of the Act. It is not disputed fact that the
assessee made payments on accounts of services charges, transportation charges,
professional fees rent, computers and software expenses, hall marking charges,
courier expense and subscription expenses. However, assessee made short
deduction of TDS on the said payments. AO invoked the provisions of section
40(a)(ia) of the Act. In this regard, at the very outset, Ld Representatives of both the parties
brought our attention to the fact that this issue is now settled and the same has to
be decided in the light of the judgment of the Calcutta High Court in the case of
CIT vs. M/s. S.K. Tikeriwal, ITA No.183 of 2012 dated 3.12.2012. In fact , the
said judgment was used in the order of the Tribunal - Mumbai Bench in the case of
m/s Highlight Pictures (India) Pvt. Ltd vs. ACIT vide ITA No.5826/M/2011 (AY
2008-2009) dated 30.8.2013 and the issue was decided in favour of the assessee. In
any case, CIT(A) granted relief in respect of the rent paid considering the Board's
circular. It is the prayer of the assessee that the assessee made short TDS in respect 54 of the other payments applying the provisions of different sections of the Act and in
such case, the provisions of section 40(a) (ia) of the Act have no application. 76. We heard the parties and perused the orders of the revenue in general and
the above cited judgments in particular. Para 5 & 5.1 of the decision of the Tribunal
in the case of Highlight Pictures (supra) are relevant in this regard and the same is
reproduced here under: . . . (ia) any interest, commission or brokerage, rent, royalty, fees for
 professional services or fees for technical services payable to a
 resident, or amounts payable to a contractor or sub-contractor, being
 resident, for carrying out any work (including supply of labour for
 carrying out any work), on which tax is deductible at source
 under Chapter XVII-B and such tax has not been deducted or,
 after deduction, has not been paid on or before the due date
 specified in sub-section (1) of section 139." (Emphasis
 supplied.)

 5.1 As can be seen from the above provision, this can be invoked only when tax has
 not been deducted or has not been paid as per the provisions. In this case the
 assessee has already deducted tax if not under section 194I or 194J but under 194C.
 It is not a case of non deduction of tax or no-deduction of tax as per the import of section 40(a)(ia) of the Act. We are of the opinion that when tax was deducted
 by the assessee, even under bona fide impression under wrong provisions
 of TDS, the provisions of section 40(a)(ia) cannot be invoked. This principle
 is being followed uniformly by various co-ordinate Benches and has the approval of
 Calcutta High Court in the case of CIT vs. M/s. S.K. Tekriwal (supra) relied on by the
 assessee. Therefore, we are of the opinion that disallowance under section 40(a)(ia) does not arise in this case. The other contentions raised by the ld. Counsel need not
 be adjudicated as provisions of section 40(a)(ia) cannot be invoked in a case of
 shortfall of TDS. Moreover, the revenue has also not taken any steps u/s. 201
 wherein the issue whether the deduction has to be made u/s. 194I or 194J or 194C
 can be considered/ examined. The ground 1 to 4 and additional ground raised are
 considered as allowed.‖ 77. In this case, it is undisputed fact that the assessee factually deducted the TDS
in principle but deficiency is that it was done on the net payments but not on the 55 gross payments. Thus it is the case of the short deduction. No malafide is
demonstrated by the AO. As such, the CIT(A) granted relief to the assessee in
respect of the rental payments and not others relying on the Circular of the Board.
CIT(A) did not follow the coordinate bench decisions in the case of S R Brothers
29 TM.COM 168 (Mum) and Eggs Survey P Ltd (mum) mentioning that they
are distinguishable on facts. In the process, the legal proposition enshrined in those
orders are ignored by the CIT(A) and thereby missed the legal point that the
making TDS u/s 195 constitutes a vicarious liability. Calcutta High Court in the
case of CIT vs. M/s. S.K. Tikeriwal (supra dated 3.12.2012) and the Mumbai
Bench decision in the case of m/s Highlight Pictures (India) Pvt. Ltd supra,
support the claim of the assessee and in its favour. 78. Considering the above and also the concurrence of both the parties on the
issue that the items mentioned in the table given in the ground no.11 are the case
of short deduction, we are of the opinion that the said ground is covered in favour of
the assessee as per the above extracted portion of the order of the ITAT dated
30.8.2013 (supra). Accordingly, ground no.11 is allowed. 79. Ground no.12 relates to the confirming of the disallowance of Rs.
57,56,233/- u/s 40A(2) out of the interest payments made to RSBL Commodities P.
Ltd., which is the sister concern of the assessee. This issue was also referred to the
special auditors. Their observations on this issue are extracted in para 14 of the
assessment order. The said para reads as under: 80. From the above, on finding that the special auditors quantified excessive
and unreasonable payment made to RSBL of Rs. 57,56,233/-, AO issued show cause
notice dated 19.7.2012 and proposed to invoke the provisions of section 40A(2) of
the Act. In reply, the assessee filed a letter dated 4.8.2012 contesting against the
said proposal. The summary of the assessee's reply reads as under: Accordingly, interest income earned was passed on to M/s. RSBL Commodities P. Ltd.
 and M/s. Venkatesh Associates P. Ltd. on their specific demand as otherwise, the
 said clients may have approached another brokers giving such benefits. (ii) HNI clients were of utmost importance, the reason being they helped us in achieving
 huge turnovers of our business which resulted in the benefit of reduction in
 transaction charges levied by the MCX. (iii) Also, the company has utilised the margin money for creating fixed deposits from which
 it earned interest rate higher than what was paid to M/s. RSBL Commodities P. Ltd.
 and hence, in that regard, the interest payment made to them was reasonable and
 not excessive. (iv) Circuar no. 6-P dated 6th July, 1968 -- pg.no.370, which states that no disallowance is to
 be made under section 40A(2) in respect of the payments made to the relatives and
 sister concerns where there is no attempt to evade tax.‖ 81. Eventually, the AO held that the assessee failed to substantiate the nexus
between margin money received from RSBL and the FD credited in the banks for
earning of the interest income. AO distinguished the Circular 6th July, 1968 and
relied heavily on the provisions of section 40A(2)(b) of the Act for effecting the
disallowance. AO also commented on the assessee's argument that in case the
interest is not paid, the client being HNI moved to other brokers. Eventually, AO
held that assessee made the payment to the sister concern and the same constitutes
excessive and unreasonable to the expenditure of Rs. 57,56,233/-. He accordingly
made addition. Aggrieved with the same, assessee filed appeal before the CIT (A). 82. During the proceedings before the CIT (A), assessee furnished detailed
written submissions which are extracted in page 87 and 88 of the impugned order.
Basically, the said paras are the repetition of the submissions made before the AO.
On considering the said submissions, CIT (A) held that the assessee failed to
establish the nexus between the interest earned margin money and the Fixed
Deposits kept in the banks. He also discussed the fact that the sister concern, RSBL,
offered the same to tax at their end therefore, there is no loss to the Revenue. The
CIT (A) distinguished the judgment of the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Munjal
Sales Corporation reported in 168 TAXMAN 43, wherein the issue is regarding claim
of deduction u/s 30 to 38 of the Act and no the case of 40A(2)(b) of the Act.
Eventually, he confirmed the addition made by the AO. 83. During the proceedings before us, Ld Counsel narrated the above stated
facts and mentioned that the sister concern, RSBL, kept the excess margin money
with the assessee and the interest was paid by the assessee to the tune of Rs.
57,56,233/-. He fairly submitted that the assessee received such excess margin 58 money from other customers also. But assessee paid interest only to two parties
i.e., M/s. Venkatesh Associates P. Ltd and sister concern RSBL. While M/s.
Venkatesh Associates P. Ltd paid the interest @ 4%, the sister concern paid the
interest at the rate varying from 6% to 7%. AO disallowed the said interest for want
of nexus between the excess margin money taken from the sister concern and the
fixed deposit made by the assessee in the bank. Before us, Ld Counsel for the
assessee argued stating that making disallowance of the entire payment, made to
the sister concern, is nor fair considering the provisions of the Act. When M/s.
Venkatesh Associates P. Ltd paid 4% rate of interest, the fact of requirement of
payment is undisputed. The sister concern of the assessee, which is independently
assessed to tax and offered the interest receipts to tax in their returns of income,
causing no loss of revenue. 84. On the other hand, Ld DR relied heavily on the orders of the AO and the
CIT (A). He mentioned that the assessee paid interest on the excess margin money
at the highest rate of interest of 6-7%, when nothing is paid to rest of the customers
who also kept excess margin money with the assessee. So far as the difference in
rate of income is concerned i.e., rate of interest paid to the clients and the rate of
interest calculated from the bank on the FD made out of such margin money,
assessee failed to establish the nexus between two. In such circumstances, the
Assessing Officer is justified in making additions disallowing the entire payment of
interest to the sister concern. Referring to the fairness of the assessment order, Ld
DR mentioned that Assessing Officer did not make any disallowance with regard to
the interest paid to M/s. Venkatesh Associates P. Ltd. 85. We have heard both the parties on this issue and perused the orders of
the Revenue Authorities and the relevant data furnished before us. It is an
undisputed fact that the assessee paid interest on the excess margin money to a
couple of its clients i.e., M/s. Venkatesh Associates P. Ltd and the assessee's sister
concern, RSBL Commodities Pvt Ltd. While the assessee paid interest @ 4% to M/s.
Venkatesh Associates P. Ltd, the rate of interest paid to the sister concern is @ 6-
7%, which is on the higher side. This differentiation clearly attracts the provisions of 59 section 40(A)(2)(b) of the Act. Therefore, it is obvious that assessee paid excessive
interest and the excessiveness is quantified as the one over and above 4%. We
have inferred the above, based on the unrelated comparables i.e., M/s. Venkatesh
Associates P. Ltd. Now the other side of the argument i.e., the excess margin
money received from RSBL is also earned interest income when kept as FD in the
banks, it is the responsibility of the assessee to demonstrate that the case of M/s.
Venkatesh Associates P. Ltd is a different from that of the sister concern. If the
excess margin money given by M/s. Venkatesh Associates P. Ltd has also found re-
entered FD along with the bank, the argument of the Ld Counsel should fail. No
relevant facts are brought to our notice, therefore, we cannot comment on this
aspect. This is a commonsensical approach that if the excess margin money of both
the parties have found the way into the FDs of the banks, the disallowance to the
extent of amount exceeding 4% should be considered as excessive and
unreasonable. The explanation given by the assessee that the sister concern is a
HNI is not to be considered favourable to the assessee considering the provisions of section 40A(2)(b) of the Act, which does not provide for any exemption, as
attempted to be made out by the assessee. Therefore, in our opinion, the AO
should calculate the excess interest over and above 4% and that should be treated
as unreasonable and excessive. Accordingly, ground no.12 raised by the
assessee is partly allowed. 86. Ground nos 13 to 16 are not pressed as stated above. 87. Grounds No.17 and 18 are either general or repetitive in nature.
Accordingly, the said grounds are dismissed as general or repetitive. 88. In the result, the appeal of the assessee is allowed partly. 89. This appeal filed by the Revenue on 14.11.2013 is against the order of the
CIT (A)-38, Mumbai dated 6.9.2013 for the assessment year 2009-2010. In this appeal, Revenue raised the following grounds which read as under: 90. Ground 1 relating to addition on account of cash transfer was already
adjudicated while dealing with the assessee's ground 5 of its appeal. On this issue,
we upheld the conclusions of the CIT(A). Accordingly, the ground raised by the
raised by the revenue is dismissed. 91. Ground no.2 relates to the disallowance of interest expenses amounting
to Rs. 93,19,850/-. This issue was referred to the special auditors. Auditors noted
that the assessee received huge interest free loans and advances. Further, assessee
claimed the interest expenditure of Rs. 1,50,76,083/-. It is commented by the
special auditors that the assessee should have wisely cleared or repaid the interest
bearing funds instead of giving interest free loans to the sister concerns. When this
issue was put to the assessee vide letter date 19.7.2012, assessee relied vide letter
dated 4.8.2012 has accepted the fact that the assessee received interest free loans
and advances and has also paid the interest on other loans and advances. In reply,
the assessee also mentioned that the assessee is placed with interest free funds of
Rs. 38.56 Crs as on 31.3.2009, whereas the interest free loans advanced during the
year is 23,36,65,000/- and the interest free loans received during the year above Rs.
2,29,36,08,880/-. By that Ld Counsel argued that the assessee is having excess
interest free funds available for giving interest free loans. Therefore, the allegation 61 to excess cost of Rs.1,50,76,083/- is not a valid one. In this regard, he relied on the
binding judgment of the jurisdictional High Court in the case of Reliance Utilities &
Power (Bom). Assessing Officer attempted to establish the nexus between the
interest free and interest bearing funds and the assesee before making the addition
of Rs. 93,19,850/- i.e., the difference between Rs. 1,50,76,083/- and Rs.
57,56,233/-, which was separately added u/s 40A(2)(b) of the Act. It involves
RSBL Commodities Pvt Ltd. This issue was discussed separately while
dealing with the ground no.12 of the assessee‟s appeal. 92. During the proceedings before the CIT (A), assessee made written
submissions which are reproduced in para 48 of the impugned order. CIT (A)
deleted the addition made the AO by relying on the binding judgment of the Hon'ble
Bombay High Court in the case of Reliance Utilities & Power (Bom) 313 ITR 340 as
per the contents of para 48 of his order, which reads as under: 93. Ground no.3 relates to the deletion of forward contract loss of Rs.
7,96,32,697/-. While there are many parties involved in these contracts and
settlements, the AO specifically picked up the ones involving M/s Rajmal Lakhichand
and Amrish L Jain. Genuineness of these transactions and allowabiity of the loss was
referred by the revenue to the special auditors. The special Auditors concluded
holding the following,- ―in respect of direct hedging, it is seen that the assessee has made
 profits almost equal to that of losses incurred as explained .. and 62 therefore, the intent of the assessee for entering into the said
 transactions is not clear‖. In this connection, AO issued show cause notice seeking the explanation of the
assessee in matters of the reasonability and business nexus of the losses incurred
on forward contracting parties. In reply, the assessee attempted to explain that the
assessee had the intention of delivery and however, due to huge volumes, he could
not stand by the same. Consequently, both parties of the forward contracts have
decided to cancel the contracts and avoid delivery. However, it is the claim of the
assessee that these contracts are linked to the business transactions of the assessee
and therefore, the loss earned on cancelling the contracts constitutes business loss.
AO analysed the meanings of the expressions ie ‗forward contracts' and spot
contracts and short positions etc. on the one side and the provisions of section
43(5)(a) of the Act and some judicial pronouncements relating to the ‗derivatives' on
the other side. Further, the AO applied the guidelines of the AAO in the case of M/s
Sopropha S A 138 TM 75 and held that the assessee failed to fulfill the
conditions/guidelines specified in the said order of the AAR. Finally, AO held that the
loss in question constitutes the ‗derivative loss' and it is not the ‗hedging loss'. He
further opined that the assessee has not provided any evidence to indicate that the
impugned contracts are linked to the transactions involving trading of gold and
bullion. AO is also critical of the finding of the Special Auditors qua the assessee's
trading activity of the gold and bullion and linkage of the forward contracts to the
said trading activity. AO finally held that the loss in question constitutes ‗speculation
loss' and not ‗hedging loss' within the meaning of section 43(5) of the Act. 94. Relevant paragraphs from page 60 of the assessment order are
reproduced as under: 95. During the proceedings before the CIT(A), assessee made written
submissions and the same is incorporated in para 50 of the impugned order.
Eventually, the CIT(A) deleted the addition relying on the judgment in the case of M
R Dhawan 119 ITR412 (Delhi) which deals with the definition of ‗speculation'.
Contents of para 51 is relevant here and the same is reproduced as under: 96. Before us, Ld DR for the revenue is critical of the finding of the CIT(A)
that the AO failed to discharge the onus. It is the submission of the DR that the
assessee failed to establish the nexus of the impugned transactions of forward
contracts with that of the regular business transactions of trading of gold and
bullion, which are to be hedged. Relevant facts relating to when the forward
contracts are cancelled and dates thereof are not brought onto the records. Ld CIT-
DR mentioned that the conclusions of the CIT(A) needs to be reversed or
alternately, the same should be remanded to the file of the AO for want of facts on
various facets on the allowability of the said loss. In this regard, on the legal
principles relavant to the connected issues, he relied on the coordinate bench
decision in the case of M/s London Star Diamond Company (I) P Ltd (ITA no
6169/M/2012 dt 11.10.2013) where one of us is an author of the order. 97. On the other hand, Ld Counsel for the assessee mentioned that the
assessee filed relevant details and facts and further stated that the AO did not give
any adverse comments of the said facts. On the legal principles relating to the issue
of allowability of the impugned losses, Ld Counsel for the assessee stated that the 64 impugned forward contracts constitute integral and incidental to the activity of the
trading activity of the gold and bullion. Forward contracts constitutes ‗commodity'
within the meaning of section 43(5) of the Act. The impugned loss constitutes
‗hedging loss' and therefore, it constitutes the business loss. In this regard, he relied
on the binding judgment in the case of Badridas Gauridu P Ltd 261 ITR 256
(Bom), Sooraj Mull Nagarmull 129 ITR 169 (Cal) etc. Ld AR also relied on the
said order of the Tribunal in the case of London Star Diamond Company (I) P
Ltd , supra and filed a copy of the same. 98. We have heard both the parties and perused the orders of the revenue.
The perusal of the orders of the authorities below indicates that the assessee has
filed relevant details and facts. The summary of the details of the hedging loss are
stated in the assessment order at pages 54-55 and the AO has not given any
adverse comments of the said facts as claimed by the assessee. It is pertinent to
mention that in the summary and findings of the special auditor on the said issue
available at page no 356 of the paper book, it has been accepted that transactions
are hedged with trade contracts partly directly and partly on overall basis but every
contract is hedged with trade transactions. The AO has not brought anything on
record to establish that the trading transactions are hedged only selectively.
Considering the facts in toto, the case of the assessee is squarely covered by the
decisions in the cases of Badridas Gauridu P Ltd 261 ITR 256 (Bom), Sooraj Mull
Nagarmull 129 ITR 169 (Cal) etc. and London Star Diamond Company (I) P Ltd (supra) and therefore we are of the considered view that the impugned loss
amounts to ‗hedging loss' and constitutes ‗business loss'. Moreover, the CIT(A) has
analysed the issue from the perspective of speculation loss and has rightly held that
the impugned loss amounts to hedging loss and a speculation loss. In view of that
matter, we do not find any justifiable reason to interfere with the decision of the
CIT(A) on this count and hence the same is upheld. Resultantly, the benefits of section 43(5) of the Act are to be granted to the assessee. Accordingly, ground 3 of
the revenue's appeal is dismissed. 99. In the result, the appeals of the assessee is partly allowed and that
 of the revenue is partly allowed for statistical purpose. Order is pronounced in the open court on this 12th day of May, 2014

 Sd/- Sd/-