The application has been filed under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal

 Procedure, presently under 528 of BNSS 2023 for quashing the proceedings in

 connection with Patuli Police Station case no. 437 of 2024, dated November Page 1 of 12 2026:CHC-AS:167
 22, 2024, under Sections 318(4) / 61(2) of BNSS, 2023 pending before the

 learned Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, 24 Parganas South.

 Fact of the case 2. The instant case was initiated on the complaint of Shankar Aditya alleging that

 in between April 11, 2024 to June 23, 2024, the unknown accused persons

 entered into a criminal conspiracy and pursuant to such conspiracy induced

 the petitioner to invest money in bitcoin trading in name of Yotemo currency

 Services Company with a false assurance of high return. The complainant sent

 an amount of ₹85.80 lakhs to the accused person through online transaction

 but did not allow to full withdrawal of his accumulated verified account

 balance and accordingly had applied for withdrawal. He was asked to pay

 verification fund towards cross border fee and government mandate tax to get

 back his account balance with Yotemo exchange, which he did not pay and he

 did not get any return. 3. The petitioner has filed the instant application stating to be an innocent

 person who came to learn about the genesis of the present complicated

 situation arising out of the written complaint dated November 22, 2024 by

 Shankar Aditya. The petitioner became aware about the present case through

 his bank, Punjab National Bank, Jangra Hattira, where he holds an account.

 He apprehended that he may be unjustly, implicated or drawn into the

 proceedings and could be wrongly summoned by the investigating agency in

 connection with the matter. Submissions 4. The learned Senior Advocate Mr. Rajdeep Majumdar argued that the

 proceedings are mala fide and vexatious which have been instituted against Page 2 of 12 2026:CHC-AS:167
 the petitioner with an ulterior motive. On bare reading of the written

 complaint, it becomes evident that the petitioner is not named therein . The

 allegations are absolutely vague and baseless. This revisional application was

 filed on 30 January 2025 and during pendency of the proceeding the

 investigating authority submitted FRT on February 2025 due to lack of

 materials to prove the charges. On 6th September 2025, the prayer made by

 the investigating officer before the learned court of Magistrate for further

 investigation was allowed and the investigation was reopened. 5. It is submitted by the learned Senior Advocate that after filing FRT, the date

 was fixed on June 3, 2025 and notice was issued upon the de-facto

 complainant on June 3, 2026 fixing the next date on February 9, 2026 for S/R

 and appearance. Meantime on the prayer made by the investigating authority

 the prayer for further investigation was allowed. 6. The learned Senior Advocate submitted that the prayer for further

 investigation dated September 5, 2025, was allowed on September 6, 2025

 before passing any order to either accept or reject the FRT when the date was

 fixed on February 9, 26 for service return and appearance with regard to the

 notice issued on o/c and hence this is not permissible in the eye of law. It is

 further assailed that after filing of FRT in absence of cogent materials suddenly

 the investigating agency became prompt and application was filed for passing

 necessary direction to transfer the claim amount of ₹1, 58, 638.01 from the

 beneficiary account, which was at IndusInd Bank Barakhamba Branch on

 September 8, 2025. The branch manager was requested to release such

 amount freezed in the account of IndusInd Bank to the account of the de-facto

 complainant at ICICI Bank, Garia Branch, subject to de-facto complainant Page 3 of 12 2026:CHC-AS:167
 furnishing a bond of equivalent amount with usual conditions. It is submitted

 that the petitioner is highly prejudiced because of the order of further

 investigation before the date fixed for appearance of the de-facto complainant.

 Mr. Mazumdar the learned Senior Advocate relied upon the decisions reported

 in Vinu Bhai Hari Bhai Malviya, and others versus state of Gujarat1 and

 another in order to substantiate that the power of the learned Magistrate to

 order for further investigate the offence continues till the stage the trial

 commences and the power can be exercised suo motu by the Magistrate

 himself depending on the facts and circumstances of each case but the

 discretion must be exercised in accordance with law and if fresh facts comes

 into light for doing substantial justice. 7. Further put reliance on the case of Vikash Ranjan Raut versus State through the Secretary (Home) government of NCT, Delhi2. Where the the

 distinction between the powers to be exercised by magistrate with respect to

 further investigation at pre-cognizance stage and post cognizance stage was

 discussed . The decision relied upon reported in, Anand Kumar Mohatta and

 another versus State (NCT of Delhi, Department of Home and Another ) 3 8. The prosecution on the other hand submits that the case was taken out for

 further investigation under order of superior on September 22, 2025, and it

 was found that the amount was transferred by the de-facto complainant from

 his ICICI bank account, Garia branch to the different accounts as per

 instructions of the miscreants during the period from April 11, 2024 to June

 23, 2024. The fund was transferred to SBI, PNB, RBL, ICICI, I OB, Jana Small 1 (2019) 17 SCC 1 2 (2019) 5 SCC 542 3 (2019) 11 SCC 706 Page 4 of 12 2026:CHC-AS:167
 Finance Bank, AU Bank, Saraswat cooperative Bank. It was further detected in

 course of investigation that 15 mobile numbers were registered in the name of

 the present petitioner and sent three notices in three different communicating

 address, but all the letters returned except one letter, but the petitioner did

 not come to this investigating agency for examination and it denotes that he is

 absconding and is evading the process of law. Therefore fact that investigation

 is required to enquire the fact and to know the flow of misappropriated fund

 and to book the culprit in the instant case for the purpose of investigation.

 Analysis 9. Heard the submissions and perused the materials on record. In a recent decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in State through Central

 Bureau of Investigation versus Hemendra Reddy and Anr.4 the issue

 considered is that whether the High Court was justified in quashing the entire

 prosecution instituted by the CBI against the accused persons for alleged

 offences on the ground that the CBI could not have undertaken further

 investigation under subsection Section (8) of Section 173 of the Code of

 Criminal Procedure, 1973 and filed a charge sheet having once already

 submitted a final report under Sub Section (2) of Section 173 of the

 Code. Another ,whether the High Court was right in taking the view that the

 special court could not have taken cognizance upon the charge sheet filed by

 the CBI based on the investigation having once already filed a closure report in

 the past and the same having been accepted by the court, concerned at the

 relevant point of time. 4 (2023) SCC Online SC 515 Page 5 of 12 2026:CHC-AS:167 10. In the said case, the CBI filed an application before the principal special

 judge for CBI cases, Chennai with prayer to close the proceedings and return

 the documents for the purpose of regular departmental action against the

 accused no. 1. It was further prayed that the seized documents during the

 course of investigation be returned so that the same could be used in the

 regular departmental action that may be initiated against the accused NO.1 .

 The said application was taken up by the Special Court and the final report

 was accepted, and the FIR was closed and permitted to return the documents

 collected during the investigation for further use. This order was passed on

 January 29, 2009 .On June 26, 2013 the CBI filed an application under Section 173(8) of the Cr.P.C seeking to reopen and undertake further

 investigation of the case on the ground of new evidence emerges to prove the

 allegations levelled against the accused persons. The said petition was allowed

 considering the ground taken and it would be just proper to order for

 reopening the case. Accordingly, the letter/summons was issued to the Deputy

 Commissioner of custom. Challenging the same, the revisional application was

 filed and the CBI in their reply relied upon the decision of Vinay Tyagi versus

 Irshad Ali @ Deepak, and others 5 that a Police Officer can carry on further

 investigation even after a report under Section 173(2) of the Cr.PC is submitted

 with the only rider being that the police should seek formal permission from

 the court. The Hon'ble Supreme Court discussed that since there were

 inconsistencies in the judicial views taken by the various courts regarding the

 power of police to investigate into an offence came to an end and the

 magistrate's cognizance of the offence started and in 41st report of law 5 (2013) 5 SCC 762 Page 6 of 12 2026:CHC-AS:167
 commission, it was recommended that the right of the police to make further

 investigation should be statutorily affirmed. Accordingly, the provision section

 173 (8) Cr.PC came to be introduced, which statutorily empowered the police

 to undertake further investigation after submission of the final report under Section 173(2) of the Cr.PC. The Hon'ble Apex Court further discussed that Section 173(8) of CrPC may be fragmented or dissected as, further

 investigation can be done in respect of an offence where report under Section

 173(2) has been forwarded to the magistrate during further investigation, the

 Office- in-Charge has power a) to obtain further evidence, or documentary b) To forward to the magistrate, if further report or reports
 regarding such evidence in the prescribed. c) the provisions of sub section(2) to(6) shall, as far as may
 be, apply in relation to such for the report or reports. 11. The decision of Rama Choudhury versus State of Bihar reported in6 was

 discussed where it was held 'further investigation within the meaning of

 provision of Section 173(8) Cr.PC is additional; more; or supplemental.' further

 investigation', therefore, is the continuation of the earlier investigation and not a

 fresh investigation or re-investigation to be started wiping out the earlier

 investigation all together." When final report forwarded by the investigating

 officer to a magistrate under Section 173(2) (i) of the Cr.PC is placed before

 him, several situations may arise. In case the report conclude that an offence

 has been committed, the Magistrate. 6 (2009) 6 SCC 346 Page 7 of 12 2026:CHC-AS:167 i) may either accept the report and take cognizance of
 an offence and issue process or ii) may disagree with the report and drop the
 proceedings or may take cognizance on the basis of the
 report/material submitted by the investigation officer and iii) may direct further investigation under Section 156(3) and required police to make a report as per Section 173(8) of the Cr.PC, iv) may treat the protest petition as a complaint and
 proceed under Section 202 of Cr.PC. The Hon'ble Apex Court also took note of the decision of Hasan Bhai Valibhai

 Qureshi versus State of Gujarat and others (Supra) where it was held that

 the mere fact that there may have the delay in concluding the trial should not

 stand in the way of further investigation, if that would help the Court in

 arriving at the truth and do real and substantial and effective justice. 12. After discussing the series of decisions over the issue observed that "when Section 156(3) states that a magistrate empowered under Section 190 may

 order" such an investigation ', such Magistrate may also order further

 investigation under Section 173(8) regard being had to the definition of

 investigation contained in section 2(h) '. It was however held that when a final

 report of the police is submitted to the magistrate the concerned magistrate is

 having unfettered right of granting further investigation, as per sub-clause (S)

 of Section 173 of the said Code. Further held in the said decision that for

 granting permission to conduct further investigation an investigation must be

 pending or some proceeding must be pending before the concerned court. It is Page 8 of 12 2026:CHC-AS:167
 a settled principle of law that after filing a final report under clause (2) of Section 173 of the Code while the matter is pending, the Investigating Officer

 can collect some more materials so as to strengthen the accusation made

 against the concerned accused. 13. In the light of the above judicial pronouncement it can be seen in the instant

 case, after the final report was submitted before the magistrate, the direction

 was given to issue notice, keeping the matter pending for appearance of the de-

 facto complainant. Meantime, the application was taken out by the

 investigating authority for further investigation. Admittedly, in the petition,

 initially, re-investigation was mentioned, however, that was subsequently

 corrected by putting further investigation and the learned Court accepted the

 same and directed for further investigation. 14. In the case of Vinubhai Haribhai (supra) it was held: 15. The facts and circumstances of the decision relied upon by the Learned

 Senior Advocate in Bikash Rout (Supra) is distinguishable in view of different

 facts and circumstances where the Magistrate accepted the Report and

 discharged the accused which was set aside .In the case of Anand Kumar

 Mohata Vs State (NCT of Delhi) (Supra ) the Court did not find merit in the

 submission that once the charge sheet is filed, petition for quashing FIR is

 untenable. Where the Hon'ble Apex Court discussed the scope of exercise of

 power under Section 482 when the charge-sheet was filed by the police during

 pendency of such application. The Hon'ble Court relied upon the decision

 of Joseph Salvaraj A versus State of Gujarat,7 , where in paragraph 16, it

 was held; 16 ; that, from the general conspectus of the various
 sections under which the appellant is being charged and is
 to be prosecuted would show that the same are not made
 out, even prime facie from the complaint's, FIR . Even if the
 charge-sheet has been submitted, the learned Single
 Judge Josheph Saivaraj A vs State of Gujarat ,2007 SCC 7 (2011)7 SCC 59 Page 10 of 12 2026:CHC-AS:167
 Online Guj. 365,could have still examined whether the
 offences alleged to have been committed by the appellant
 were Prima Facie made out from the complainants's FIR,
 charge sheet, documents etc. or not .' 16. In the decision of Jakia Nasim Ahesan and Anr (supra) the SIT submitted

 the final report and hence direction was given to forward the final report to the

 court which had taken cognizance. It was further directed that in the event of

 not having sufficient materials the court before taking final decision of the

 closure report shall issue notice to the complainant and if the court found

 there exists no sufficient grounds for proceeding against some of the persons

 named in the FIR, the Magistrate must give the notice to the informant and

 provide him an opportunity to be heard at the time of consideration of report.

 So the contention off the Learned Senior Advocate is that since the notice was

 issued to the informant /complainant, the acceptance of the same was and

 pending and in between the further investigation order was passed without

 waiting for the final outcome of the case. Conclusion 17. In view of the thread bare discussion of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India

 on this issue, there remains no room for further discussion that by passing

 such order for further investigation, the learned Magistrate has not committed

 any illegality. That apart the petitioner filed the petition for quashing the

 complaint who was not an FIR named person and therefore, at this stage

 question of quashing the proceeding does not arise since direction has been

 given for further investigation. However it is contended that the account of the

 petitioner was kept as freeze even after the FRT was filed .In the fore corner of Page 11 of 12 2026:CHC-AS:167
 this application no such statement on affidavit was mentioned excepting that

 he apprehended that he may be unjustly implicated or drawn into the

 proceeding and could be wrongfully summoned by the investigating agency in

 connection with this matter. Only on the basis of apprehension a case

 involving more than 80 lakhs cannot be quashed specially when the

 investigation is still going on by the Anti-Fraud section and the petitioner is

 not an FIR named accused. 18. Hence, this court is not inclined to allow the prayer of the petitioner. 19. The instant criminal revisional application is hence stands dismissed. 20. No order as to cost. 21. Urgent certified copy if applied by any of the parties to be supplied subject

 to observance of all formalities. (CHAITALI CHATTERJEE DAS, J.) Page 12 of 12