Umang Dhanuka
 131 Maker Tower 'B'
 Cuffe Parade,
 Mumbai - 400 005. 2. Madan Mohan Dhanuka
 131 Maker Tower 'B'
 Cuffe Parade,
 Mumbai - 400 005. 3. Mayank Dhanuka
 401, Raheja Centre,
 214, Nariman Point,
 Mumbai - 400 021. 4. Neha Dhanuka
 131 Maker Tower 'B'
 Cuffe Parade,
 Mumbai - 400 005. 5. Nikunj Dhanuka
 401/404, Raheja Centre,
 214, Nariman Point,
 Mumbai - 400 021. 6. Rajkumari Dhanuka
 401/404, Raheja Centre,
 214, Nariman Point,
 Mumbai - 400 021. 7. Bina Devi Dhanuka
 401/404, Raheja Centre,
 214, Nariman Point,
 Mumbai - 400 021. ..... Appellants 2 Versus

Securities and Exchange Board of India
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C-4A, G-Block,
Bandra-Kurla Complex, Bandra (East),
Mumbai - 400 051. ... Respondent

Mr. P.N. Modi, Senior Advocate with Mr. Sumit Agrawal,
Mr. Amit Agrawal, Ms. Kalpana Desai and Ms. G.S.
Sreenidhi, Advocate i/b. Regstreet Law Advisors for
Appellants. Mr. Shyam Mehta, Senior Advocate with Mr. Abhiraj Arora,
Ms. Rashi Dalmia and Mr. Karthik Narayan, Advocates i/b.
ELP for the Respondent. Securities and Exchange Board of India
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C-4A, G-Block,
Bandra-Kurla Complex, Bandra (East),
Mumbai - 400 051. ... Respondent

Mr. P.N. Modi, Senior Advocate with Mr. Kunal Katariya,
Mr. Ravi Vijay Ramaiya, Chartered Accountants and
Mr. Sahebrao Wamanrao Buktare, Advocates i/b. Shah &
Ramaiya Chartered Accountants for the Appellant. 3 Mr. Shyam Mehta, Senior Advocate with Mr. Abhiraj Arora,
Ms. Rashi Dalmia and Mr. Karthik Narayan, Advocates i/b.
ELP for the Respondent. WITH Appeal No. 85 of 2020 Devesh Valecha
Valecha's, AH-27, Bapat Square,
Sukhliya,
Indore - 452 010. ..... Appellant

Versus

Securities and Exchange Board of India
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C-4A, G-Block,
Bandra-Kurla Complex, Bandra (East),
Mumbai - 400 051. ... Respondent

Mr. Ravi Vijay Ramaiya, Chartered Accountant and
Mr. Sahebrao Wamanrao Buktare, Advocate i/b. Shah &
Ramaiya Chartered Accountants for the Appellant.

Mr. Abhiraj Arora, Advocate with Ms. Rashi Dalmia and
Mr. Karthik Narayan, Advocates i/b. ELP for the Respondent. WITH Appeal No. 178 of 2020 1. Hitesh N. Kawa
 1801, Heena Elegance,
 Opp. Bhatia High School,
 Sai Bab Nagar, Borivali (West),
 Mumbai - 400 092. 2. Roopal H. Kawa
 1801, Heena Elegance,
 Opp. Bhatia High School,
 Sai Bab Nagar, Borivali (West),
 Mumbai - 400 092. ..... Appellants 4 Versus

Securities and Exchange Board of India
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C-4A, G-Block,
Bandra-Kurla Complex, Bandra (East),
Mumbai - 400 051. ... Respondent

Mr. Kunal Katariya, Advocate with Mr. Ravi Vijay Ramaiya,
Chartered Accountant and Mr. Sahebrao Wamanrao Buktare,
Advocate i/b. Shah & Ramaiya Chartered Accountants for the
Appellant. Mr. Shyam Mehta, Senior Advocate with Mr. Abhiraj Arora,
Ms. Rashi Dalmia and Mr. Karthik Narayan, Advocates i/b.
ELP for the Respondent

 WITH Appeal No. 179 of 2020 Gajakarna Trading Private Limited
A-503, Vrajdham, Ram Baug Lane,
Poiser, Borivali (West),
Mumbai - 400 092. ..... Appellant

Versus

Securities and Exchange Board of India
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C-4A, G-Block,
Bandra-Kurla Complex, Bandra (East),
Mumbai - 400 051. ... Respondent

Mr. Ravi Vijay Ramaiya, Chartered Accountant and
Mr. Sahebrao Wamanrao Buktare, Advocate i/b. Shah &
Ramaiya Chartered Accountants for the Appellant.

Mr. Abhiraj Arora, Advocate with Ms. Rashi Dalmia and
Mr. Karthik Narayan, Advocates i/b. ELP for the Respondent. 5 WITH Appeal No. 180 of 2020 1. Nimesh S. Joshi
 B-1204, Vrindavan CHSL,
 Rambaug Lane,
 Off S.V. Road, Borivali (West),
 Mumbai - 400 092. 2. Rashmi N. Joshi
 B-1204, Vrindavan CHSL,
 Rambaug Lane,
 Off S.V. Road, Borivali (West),
 Mumbai - 400 092. ..... Appellants

Versus

Securities and Exchange Board of India
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C-4A, G-Block,
Bandra-Kurla Complex, Bandra (East),
Mumbai - 400 051. ... Respondent

Mr. Ravi Vijay Ramaiya, Chartered Accountant and
Mr. Sahebrao Wamanrao Buktare, Advocate i/b. Shah &
Ramaiya Chartered Accountants for the Appellants.

Mr. Abhiraj Arora, Advocate with Ms. Rashi Dalmia and
Mr. Karthik Narayan, Advocates i/b. ELP for the Respondent. WITH Appeal No. 181 of 2020 Mahaganapati Financial Services Pvt. Ltd.
B/63, Pushpa Park,
56, S.V. Road,
Borivali (West),
Mumbai - 400 092. ..... Appellant 6 Versus

Securities and Exchange Board of India
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C-4A, G-Block,
Bandra-Kurla Complex, Bandra (East),
Mumbai - 400 051. ... Respondent

Mr. Ravi Vijay Ramaiya, Chartered Accountant and
Mr. Sahebrao Wamanrao Buktare, Advocate i/b. Shah &
Ramaiya Chartered Accountants for the Appellant.

Mr. Abhiraj Arora, Advocate with Ms. Rashi Dalmia and
Mr. Karthik Narayan, Advocates i/b. ELP for the Respondent. WITH Appeal No. 235 of 2020 Poonam P. Jain
C-09, Solus, No. 2, 9th Floor,
JC Road, 1st Cross,
Bangalore - 560 027. ..... Appellant

Versus

Securities and Exchange Board of India
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C-4A, G-Block,
Bandra-Kurla Complex, Bandra (East),
Mumbai - 400 051. ... Respondent

Ms. Aishwarya Shubhangi, Advocate for the Appellant.

Mr. Shyam Mehta, Senior Advocate with Mr. Abhiraj Arora,
Ms. Rashi Dalmia and Mr. Karthik Narayan, Advocates i/b.
ELP for the Respondent. WITH Appeal No. 246 of 2020 Ganesh Laxman Wagh
Samruddhi, P.No. 130,
Gandhi Nagar,
Aurangabad - 431 001. ..... Appellant

Versus

Securities and Exchange Board of India
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C-4A, G-Block,
Bandra-Kurla Complex, Bandra (East),
Mumbai - 400 051. ... Respondent

Mr. Ravi Vijay Ramaiya, Chartered Accountant and
Mr. Sahebrao Wamanrao Buktare, Advocate i/b. Shah &
Ramaiya Chartered Accountants for the Appellant.

Mr. Abhiraj Arora, Advocate with Ms. Rashi Dalmia and
Mr. Karthik Narayan, Advocates i/b. ELP for the Respondent. WITH Appeal No. 247 of 2020 Seema Ganesh Wagh
Samruddhi, P.No. 130,
Gandhi Nagar,
Aurangabad - 431 001. ..... Appellant

Versus

Securities and Exchange Board of India
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C-4A, G-Block,
Bandra-Kurla Complex, Bandra (East),
Mumbai - 400 051. ... Respondent 8 Mr. Ravi Vijay Ramaiya, Chartered Accountant and
Mr. Sahebrao Wamanrao Buktare, Advocate i/b. Shah &
Ramaiya Chartered Accountants for the Appellant.

Mr. Abhiraj Arora, Advocate with Ms. Rashi Dalmia and
Mr. Karthik Narayan, Advocates i/b. ELP for the Respondent. WITH
 Misc. Application No. 263 of 2020
 And Appeal No. 571 of 2020 Madanlal Jain
63, Narpat Nagar, Pal Road,
Jodhpur,
Rajasthan - 342 008. ..... Appellant

Versus

Securities and Exchange Board of India
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C-4A, G-Block,
Bandra-Kurla Complex, Bandra (East),
Mumbai - 400 051. ... Respondent

Mr. Vinay Chauhan, Advocate with Mr. K.C. Jacob,
Advocate i/b. Corporate Law Chambers India for the
Appellant

Mr. Shyam Mehta, Senior Advocate with Mr. Abhiraj Arora,
Ms. Rashi Dalmia and Mr. Karthik Narayan, Advocates i/b.
ELP for the Respondent. WITH
 Misc. Application No. 264 of 2020
 And Appeal No. 572 of 2020 Moolchand Jain
63, Narpat Nagar, Pal Road,
Jodhpur,
Rajasthan - 342 008. ..... Appellant 9 Versus

Securities and Exchange Board of India
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C-4A, G-Block,
Bandra-Kurla Complex, Bandra (East),
Mumbai - 400 051. ... Respondent

Mr. Vinay Chauhan, Advocate with Mr. K.C. Jacob,
Advocate i/b. Corporate Law Chambers India for the
Appellant. Mr. Shyam Mehta, Senior Advocate with Mr. Abhiraj Arora,
Ms. Rashi Dalmia and Mr. Karthik Narayan, Advocates i/b.
ELP for the Respondent. WITH
 Misc. Application No. 265 of 2020
 And Appeal No. 573 of 2020 Mukeshkumar Jain
63, Narpat Nagar, Pal Road,
Jodhpur,
Rajasthan - 342 008. ..... Appellant

Versus

Securities and Exchange Board of India
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C-4A, G-Block,
Bandra-Kurla Complex, Bandra (East),
Mumbai - 400 051. ... Respondent

Mr. Vinay Chauhan, Advocate with Mr. K.C. Jacob,
Advocate i/b. Corporate Law Chambers India for the
Appellant. Mr. Shyam Mehta, Senior Advocate with Mr. Abhiraj Arora,
Ms. Rashi Dalmia and Mr. Karthik Narayan, Advocates i/b.
ELP for the Respondent. WITH
 Misc. Application No. 267 of 2020
 And Appeal No. 575 of 2020 Vikas Jain
63, Narpat Nagar, Pal Road,
Jodhpur,
Rajasthan - 342 008. ..... Appellant

Versus

Securities and Exchange Board of India
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C-4A, G-Block,
Bandra-Kurla Complex, Bandra (East),
Mumbai - 400 051. ... Respondent

Mr. Vinay Chauhan, Advocate with Mr. K.C. Jacob,
Advocate i/b. Corporate Law Chambers India for the
Appellant. Mr. Shyam Mehta, Senior Advocate with Mr. Abhiraj Arora,
Ms. Rashi Dalmia and Mr. Karthik Narayan, Advocates i/b.
ELP for the Respondent. AND Appeal No. 581 of 2020 Narayan Balkrishan Toshniwal
302, Janki Niwas, Modi Patel Road,
Bhayander West,
Thane - 401 101. ..... Appellant

Versus

Securities and Exchange Board of India
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C-4A, G-Block,
Bandra-Kurla Complex, Bandra (East),
Mumbai - 400 051. ... Respondent 11 Mr. Jaikishan Lakhwani, Advocate i/b. J. L. Legal Advisors
for the Appellant. Shyam Mehta, Senior Advocate with Mr. Abhiraj Arora,
Ms. Rashi Dalmia and Mr. Karthik Narayan, Advocates i/b.
ELP for the Respondent

CORAM : Justice Tarun Agarwala, Presiding Officer
 Justice M.T. Joshi, Judicial Member

Per : Justice Tarun Agarwala, Presiding Officer 1. This group of appeals is against a common order dated

November 18, 2019 passed by the Whole Time Member

('WTM' for short) of Securities and Exchange Board of India

('SEBI' for short) restraining the appellants and the six

entities from accessing the securities market for a period of

five years and further freezing the shares and mutual funds

units lying in their demat accounts for the same period. For

facility, the facts in the appeal of Umang Dhanuka & Ors.(

Dhanuka Family), Appeal No. 102 of 2020 is being taken into

consideration. In some of the appeals there is a delay in the

filing of the appeals and, accordingly, separate applications

for condoning the delay have been filed. For the reasons

stated in the applications, the delay in the filing of the 12 appeals are condoned. Miscellaneous Applications are

allowed. 2. In this group of appeals, we have divided the appeals in

two categories. The entities in the first set of appeals being,

Appeals Nos. 102, 44, 85, 235, 246, 247, 571, 572, 573, 575

and 581 of 2020 are herein called the 'appellants'. The

entities in the second set of appeals being, Appeals Nos. 178,

179, 180 and 181are herein called 'six entities'. 3. The facts leading to the filing of the present appeals are,

that the trading in the scrip of Pine Animation Limited

('PAL' or 'the Company' for short) was suspended by the

Bombay Stock Exchange Limited ('BSE' for short) on

November 9, 1998. It was revoked on June 22, 2012. On

December 13, 2012, the Company made a preferential

allotment of 1,50,00,000 shares of Rs. 10/- each to 49 entities

with a lock in period of one year. The Company made a

second preferential allotment of 97,00,000 shares at the rate

of Rs. 10/- per share to 49 entities on March 15, 2013. In

December 2012, the appellant Umang Dhanuka purchased

96,000 shares for Rs. 6 lakh at the rate of Rs. 6.25 per share

through off market from one entity known as Gajakarna

Trading Private Limited (hereinafter referred to as 'six 13 entities'). On March 28, 2013 trading in the shares of the

Company resumed on the BSE platform on a new discovered

price of Rs. 441/- per share. On May 17, 2013, the shares of

the Company was split in the ratio of 1:10. Thus, the appellant

Umang Dhanuka's 96,000 shares having a face value of

Rs. 10/- per share became 9,60,000 shares of face value of

Rs. 1/- each. The paid up capital of the Company stood at

Rs. 27.70 crores. Between March 2014 to October 2014, the

appellants sold off their holdings in the market by selling

them on the BSE platform. 4. In the same fashion, the other appellants in Appeal No.

102, 44, 85, 235, 246, 247, 571, 572, 573, 575 and 581 of

2020 also purchased shares through off market from the six

entities upon a consideration and thereafter sold the same and

made profits. 5. During the period March 28, 2013 to January 30, 2015

the price of the shares rose from Rs. 441/- to Rs. 1006/- and

eventually came down to Rs. 38.85 per share on January 30,

2015. Between March 22, 2013 to June 19, 2013 the price

increased from Rs. 472/- to Rs. 1000/-. Between June 20,

2013 to December 16, 2013 the price hovered from Rs. 1006/- 14 to Rs. 910/- per share and from July 10, 2014 to January 2,

2015 the price went down from Rs. 707.50 to Rs. 388.50 and

as on January 30, 2015 the prices came down to Rs. 38. 85/-. 6. Noticing the sharp rise in the trading volume and price

in the scrip of the Company, SEBI conducted an investigation

in the trading in the scrip of the Company and, based on the

investigation, SEBI passed an ex parte ad interim order dated

May 8, 2015 against 178 entities. The 178 entities were

categorized as under:- (i) The Company; (ii) The directors and promoters of the Company; (iii) The promoter related entities. (iv) The preferential allottees; (v) The exit providers; (vi) The LTP contributors; 7. It was observed in the ex parte ad interim order that the

modus operandi was first to allot preferential shares, then

stock split, then pump up the price, then provide an exit to the

preferential allottees at a higher price. It was observed that

after the second preferential allotment on March 15, 2013

there was a sharp increase in the price of the shares of the 15 Company and that prior to the preferential allotment there was

no trading activity. It was found on the basis of investigation

that the increase in the trading volume occurred after lock in

period expired of the preferential allottees. It was further

found that there were two sets of entities; one group was

primarily involved in pushing up the price when the shares

were under the lock in period and the second group was

acting as buyers in patch-2 in order to provide an exit

opportunity to the preferential allottees. 8. The WTM prima facie found that the entire modus

operandi of allotting shares on a preferential basis was a

scheme devised to provide ill gotten gains to the preferential

allottees and promoter related entities. Further, the modus

operandi of pumping the shares artificially and then dumping

the shares demonstrate the mala fide intention of the

Company and this mechanism was used to deceive the

authorities by laundering black money and making it tax free.

The WTM further found that it can reasonably be inferred that

the preferential allottees along with promoter related entities

were acting in concert with the exit providers who have

misused the Stock Exchange to generate a fictitious Long 16 Term Capitan Gains (LTCG) so as to convert their

unaccounted income into accounted one with no payment of

taxes as LTCG was exempt from payment of tax. 9. The WTM prima facie found all the appellants to be

promoter related entities as they had bought the shares from

the six entities, ie, noticees nos. 20 to 25 who in turn had

bought the shares from the promoters and therefore they were

connected with the Company. In addition to the aforesaid,

insofar as the appellants Dhanuka Family is concerned it was

prima facie found that the appellants were connected with the

Company as the Company had given a loan to one entity

Bihariji Constructions (India) Limited ('Bihariji' for short)

which is non-banking financing company (NBFC) and is one

of the six entities. The connection was drawn from the fact

that the Company had given a loan to this entity Bihariji in

which some of the Dhanuka Family members were directors,

namely, noticee nos. 59, 46 and 70. 10. The ex parte ad interim order consequently restrained

178 entities from accessing the securities market as it prima

facie found that noticees acted in concert to generate LTCG in

order to convert unaccounted income into accounted income 17 with nil payment of tax as LTCG was exempt from tax. The

appellants in the interim order was categorized as "promoter

related entities" as they had bought the shares from the six

entities who in turn had bought the shares from the original

promoters. 11. The WTM thereafter passed a confirmatory order dated

August 22, 2016 against 122 entities including the appellants

confirming the directions passed in the ex parte ad interim

order with certain relaxations. Separate orders against other

entities were passed by the WTM on June 2, 2016, July 5,

2016 and January 26, 2017. In the confirmatory order, the

WTM held that the Company was involved in the modus

operandi for the benefit of the preferential allottees, exit

providers and promoter related entities and it seems that the

transfer of the shares of the promoters to the promoter related

entities was under a prior arrangement. The WTM, however,

found that Bihariji and its directors (who were the appellants

in appeal no. 102 of 2020) have not been classified as

promoters related entities on the basis of the loan transactions

between the Company and the Bihariji Constructions. 18 12. Thereafter, the WTM passed a revocation order dated

September 19, 2017 against 114 entities. These 114 entities

were identified as preferential allottees, exit providers and

LTP contributors. The WTM discharged these noticees from

the ad interim orders on the ground that these preferential

allottees had no connection with the Company or its

promoters or promoter related entities nor had any role in the

price manipulation and therefore there was no violation

committed by these entities with regard to the Securities and

Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (' SEBI Act ' for short), Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 ('SCRA' for

short) and SEBI (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade

Practices relating to Securities Market) Regulations, 2003

('PFUTP Regulations' for short). 13. Eventually, a show cause notice dated December 6,

2017 was issued to 80 noticees. These noticees were

categorized as under:- 14. The show cause notice alleged that the appellants were

party to the alleged fraudulent scheme; that the appellants

purchased the shares despite weak fundamentals of the

company and that the appellants sold the shares when the

price had been manipulated thereby reaped huge profits. It

was further alleged that on March 31, 2013, the original

promoters were not holding the shares and had off loaded its

holdings to the six entities and, as per the forensic auditor's

report, the Company was being operated by noticee no. 9,

Shri Jagdish Prasad Purohit who was the main person to

discover the price at Rs. 441/- per share on the BSE platform.

It was alleged that the Company and its directors were part of

the manipulative scheme and that all the appellants had

violated Section 12A(a) ,(b) and (c) of the SEBI Act read with

regulation 3 and 4 PFUTP Regulations. Insofar as the 21 appellants Dhanuka Family are concerned, the additional

ground was that they were party to the alleged fraudulent

scheme on account of loan transfer. It was contended that the

Dhanuka Family had purchased the shares from Gajakarna,

who is one of the six entities, who in turn had purchased the

same from the original promoters of the Company (notice no.

15to 19) and therefore the Dhanuka Family were connected to

the Company on account of the loan transaction between the

Company and the Bihariji Constructions in which some of the

Dhanuka Family members were the directors. 15. The WTM after considering the replies of all the

noticees and, after considering the material evidence on

record, found that the trading in the shares of the Company

had been suspended by the BSE for many years and that the

Company's performance and prospectus were very poor. The

WTM held that even though the suspension of the shares was

revoked no legitimate investor would ever think of investing

in the shares of the Company on account of weak

fundamentals. It was further found that the Company made

two large fraudulent preferential allotment of shares to the

preferential allottees and thereafter the market price was 22 manipulated and the price was increased by LTP contributors.

Further, purchasers, namely, the exit providers were then set

up to give the preferential allottees an exit opportunity of

huge profits. The WTM further gave a finding that the annual

reports / accounts of the Company had been falsified by the

Company and its directors in order to show fictitious shares

and profits in order to portray exponential increase in the

revenue. The WTM came to a conclusion that this was done

deliberately to justify the market increase by the LTP

contributors and to attract or induce the investors. The WTM

further found that the promoters of the Company had off

loaded their own shareholdings off market to the six entities

who then sold the shares to 62 entities including the

appellants who were located in all parts of the country and

that 49 of these 62 entities had sold off their shares or part

thereof when prices were inflated and thus made huge profits.

The WTM on this basis concluded that the appellants had

violated the PFUTP Regulations. 16. The WTM further found that noticee no. 9 was de facto

controlling the Company and was part of the manipulation in

the price of the scrip along with the Company and its 23 directors. The WTM also found that noticee no. 9 was

instrumental in determining the opening price at Rs. 441/- per

share and that the proceeds of the preferential allotments were

transferred to notice no, 9 and to Companies managed by him.

The WTM further found that noticee nos. 15 to 19 who were

the promoter entities who had transferred their holdings to the

six noticees between January 5, 2013 to February 9, 2013.

The WTM exonerated these entities holding that there was no

nexus with the other entities and that they had no nexus with

the price manipulation of the scrip and that their role was

limited to the extent of transferring their shares to the six

entities. 17. The WTM further found that there was a nexus between

noticee no. 2 who was a promoter and director of the

Company with the six entities. It was found that the Company

was operating from a flat which belonged to one of the six

entities (notice no. 23) in Mumbai. The WTM found that

acquisition of shares by the six entities on the basis of a loan

taken by noticee nos. 15 to 19 was not based on any cogent

evidence and was thus disbelieved. The WTM held that loan

given to strangers with whom six entities had no business 24 activities without taking any collateral security was not a

bona fide transaction. 18. The WTM further came to a conclusion that the six

entities acted as conduits in the scheme of manipulation in the

price of the scrip and indulged in a pre-designed plan to

manipulate the share price in order to benefit the ultimate

buyers, namely, the appellants. The WTM came to a

conclusion that the complicity of the appellants in the

fraudulent scheme could be judged by the fact that in spite of

the fundamentals of the Company being poor the appellants

purchased the shares at a low price knowing with the

understanding that the shares could be sold at a later point of

time at a relatively higher price. The WTM came to a

conclusion that the purchase decision by the appellants could

not be called a prudent decision of a genuine investor and that

the onwards transfer of shares by the six entities was part of a

scheme / pre-planned arrangement with a definite assurance

to the appellants that they would be able to sell the shares at a

higher rate. Insofar as appellants Dhanuka Family was

concerned the WTM found that on account of loan taken by

Bihariji there was a direct connection and close proximity

with the Company. 19. On the aforesaid basis the impugned order passed by the

WTM restraining the appellants and the six entities from

accessing the securities market. 20. We have heard Shri P.N. Modi, the learned senior

counsel, Shri Ravi Ramaiya, Chartered Accountant,

Shri Kunal Katariya, Shri Vinay Chauhan, Shri Jaikishan

Lakhwani and Ms. Aishwarya Shubhangi, the learned counsel

for the appellants and Shri Shyam Mehta, the learned senior

counsel and Shri Abhiraj Arora, the learned counsel for the

respondent at length. 21. The contention of the appellants was that the Company

and its directors were the master mind / price manipulator

along with noticee nos. 9, 10, 11, 75, 77 to 80 and the

intermediary entities, ie, the six notices ( notices no. 20 to 25).

The modus operandi was first to allot the shares to the

preferential allottees then split the shares, then pump up the

price and then provide an exit to the preferential allottees

when the prices are high. The appellants do not fit in this

category. Further, based on the said modus operandi, the

preferential allottees made huge profits which is not disputed 26 but these preferential allottees, LTP contributors and exit

providers have been let off. It was thus contended that the

main perpetrators to the alleged fraud, scheme, artifice, device

was for the benefit of the preferential allottees who have been

let off and, on the other hand, on the same charge, the

appellants have been penalized which is wholly

discriminatory. It was, thus, urged that since the preferential

allottees and others had been exonerated by the revocation

order of September 19, 2017, the proceedings against the

appellant should have been dropped. It was further contended

that in an identical matter in the case of Mishka Finance and

Trading Limited, the role of the entities in the said case was

identical to the role of the appellants, namely, that parties had

bought shares off market and sold the same at a high price

were exonerated on the ground that there was no evidence to

prove that they had manipulated the price. It was urged that

the case of Mishka Finance and Trading Limited which was

decided by the WTM by its order of December 5, 2017, being

identical, the appellants should have been given the similar

relief. 22. It was further contended that the appellants had no links

with the Company or promoters or directors of the Company

and that the appellants were bona fide purchasers. It was

urged that the foundation of the impugned order is, that the

trading in the shares of the Company had been suspended by

BSE for many years whose performance and prospectus were

so poor that no legitimate investor would even invest in the

shares and therefore the appellants must have been assured

fraudulent profits. It was urged that this finding is patently

erroneous and is based on surmises and conjectures. The

finding that the appellants have violated regulations 3 and 4

of the PFUTP Regulations merely on the basis of

preponderance of probabilities is erroneous. It was further

urged that the manipulation of price was done by noticee nos.

9, 10 and 11 in connivance with Company and its directors

and other promoter related entities. In the absence of any

charge of collusion, the appellants would not be booked for

violation under regulations 3 & 4 of the PFUTP Regulations. 23. The appellants urged that the finding that the

investments made by the appellants cannot be termed as a

regular investment made in the ordinary course of business on 28 the ground that the Company had weak fundamentals and the

trading had been suspended for 14 years is purely conjectural

and cannot be a ground for implicating the appellants nor can

it lead to a conclusion that the purchase of shares by the

appellants was pursuant to a pre-decided scheme with

assurance of a profitable exit. It was also urged that the

finding that the appellants have close proximity with the

Company on the ground that the appellants (Dhanuka Family)

were directors of Bihariji (one of the six entities) is incorrect.

It was contended that Bihariji Constructions is a non-banking

financial company and in its usual course of business took

loans from the Company on a high rate of interest which was

paid back to the Company along with interest after deducting

TDS. These transactions were looked into by the forensic

auditor appointed by SEBI who found that the transactions

between Bihariji and the Company were in the usual course of

business. Thus, it was urged that the business connection of

Bihariji with the Company cannot be stretched to prove that

the appellants (Dhanuka Family) was part of the manipulative

scheme in order to gain benefit by selling the shares at a

higher price. It was urged that in the absence of any direct

connection between the appellants and the Company and its 29 promoters and directors the WTM committed an error in

charging the appellants on the basis of preponderance of

probabilities and surrounding circumstances. 24. On the other hand, the stand of the respondent was that

the appellants, namely, noticee nos. 26 to 74 were

beneficiaries of a fraudulent scheme and that they were not

bona fide purchasers of the shares of the Company. It was

urged that the appellants had acquired the shares knowing

fully well that they would be earning profits on their

investments on the basis of a fraudulent scheme which

involved manipulation in the price of the scrip of the

Company. It was contended that the appellants bought shares

from the six entities who were closely associated with the

Company and that these six entities were also de facto

controlling and managing the Company. It was contended that

these six entities acquired the shares from the promoters

entities in physical form through off market transaction and

thereafter sold it to the appellants which can only happen if

the appellants knew these six entities. It was also urged that

the appellants had close proximity with the six entities

because they purchased the physical shares at a lower price 30 than the face value. It was also contended that the appellants

had an advantage over the preferential allottees as there was

no lock in period of the shares which they have purchased. It

was urged that since the Company was making losses and had

weak financial fundamentals, a well known investor would

not have purchased the shares and the fact that the appellants

had purchased the shares gives rise to a preponderance of

probabilities that the appellants knew that they would earn

huge profits from the purchase of these shares. It was

contended that insofar as the Dhanuka family is concerned

there was a direct connection with the Company through an

NBFC which is controlled by the Dhanuka family, namely,

Bihariji wherein it has come on record that the Company had

advanced loans to Bihariji and therefore the link / close

proximity with the Company stands established. 25. Having heard the learned senior counsel for the parties

at some length we find that the entire basis for holding the

appellants guilty of Section 12A(a) ,(b) and (c) of the SEBI

Act read with Regulation 3 and 4 PFUTP Regulations is, that

a prudent investor would not have purchased the shares of a

Company which had weak fundamentals and financials and 31 that no one in their right mind would buy the shares unless

there was a pre-existing arrangement of reaping in huge

profits. In our view, this reasoning is patently erroneous and

cannot be sustained for the following reasons. 26. In the first instance we must not forget that the entire

investigation, the interim orders, confirmatory orders,

revocation orders that led to the issuance of the show cause

notice against the appellants was based on the modus

operandi initiated by the Company, its promoters, promoter

related entities, directors and noticee nos. 9 to 11 and the six

entities, was first to allot the shares to the preferential

allottees then split the shares and thereafter pump the price

and then provide an exit to the preferential allottees at a

higher price. The record indicates that the discovered price

was Rs. 441/- per share of a Company which had weak

fundamentals. No eyebrows has been raised by the

respondent and this price was found to be perfectly valid. The

record also indicates that the prices started rising after trading

resumed and from Rs. 441/- it rose to Rs. 100/- to Rs. 1000/-

per share. Then the stocks was split in the ratio 1:10.

Thereafter, the LTP contributors came in patch-2 where they 32 started manipulating the price by buying at a higher price and

then the exit providers came in to provide an exit to the

preferential allottees at a higher price. We find from a perusal

of the record that the preferential allottees gained the most of

more than Rs. 430 crore but what we find is that the WTM

has exonerated, by a cryptic order, the preferential allottees,

exit providers and the LTP contributors from the charge of Section 12A(a) ,(b) and (c) of the SEBI Act read with Regulation 3 and 4 PFUTP Regulations on the ground that

they had no role to play in the price manipulation. We are of

the opinion that the appellants stands on a better footing than

that of the preferential allottees and if the preferential allottees

have been let off on the ground that they have not

manipulated the price nor had any role to play in the price

manipulation, then all the more reasons to hold for the

appellants that they had no role to play in the manipulation of

the price and are therefore liable to be exonerated. 27. If the preferential allottees who have made huge profits

have been let off there is no reason why the appellants should

not be let off. The WTM however, has taken an exception on

the fact that the appellants had made huge profits. We are of 33 the opinion that it is not a crime to make huge profits unless

you show that the profits were made by manipulating the

price in collusion and with fraudulent intent with other

entities such as the Company and its directors and promoter

related entities which in the instant case is lacking. 28. We are of the opinion that the role of the preferential

allottees, exit providers and LTP contributors were far more

serious than the role of the appellants. The role of the

appellants in the instant case is, that they had purchased the

shares off market from the six entities who in turn have

purchased it from the promoter Company. Whereas, the

preferential allottees have been let off, the appellants have

been penalized only on the ground of being in proximity with

the Company and its directors which finding is perverse in as

much as we find that there is no direct connection of the

appellants with the Company, its promoters, promoter

company or noticees nos. 9 to 11, 75, 77 to 80 who were the

main manipulators and the kingpin in the entire scheme. 29. The six entities are not promoter related entities. They

have acquired the shares from the promoter Company but

they do not become the promoters. The fact that they were de 34 facto controlling the Company is not a relevant issue as it still

does not make them promoters of the Company. Thus, merely

because the appellants had purchased the shares through off

market from the six entities does not and cannot lead to a

conclusion that the appellants are connected with the

Company or with noticee no. 9 or with promoter related

entities or its directors. The finding that appellants were in

close proximity or had a connection with the Company,

directors etc. is patently erroneous. 30. There is another aspect. The six entities had purchased

the shares from a promoter Company, namely, noticees 15 to

19 and thereafter the six entities sold it to the appellants.

Whereas the notices no. 15 to 19 have been exonerated by the

impugned order, the appellants have been booked for having a

close proximity with the Company. We find that the

appellants have not purchased the shares from the Company. 31. The basic charge and investigation was one of LTCG.

This charge has been dropped altogether which was part of

the modus operandi of the whole scheme. The initial charge

against the appellants was that they were "promoter related

entities" and this charge has also been dropped. The 35 appellants have been restrained from accessing the securities

market on the ground that the Company had weak

fundamentals and on the ground that no one in their right

mind would invest in the shares of the Company and since the

appellants invested less than the face value of the shares it led

to an irresistible inference based on the preponderance of

probabilities that the appellants had purchased the shares with

this pre-arranged scheme that they would reap in huge profits

when the price of the scrip rises. In our opinion this finding is

perverse. We are of the opinion that the respondent are

adopting dual standards. The issue of weak fundamentals

would equally apply to the preferential allottees who were

allotted the shares at rate of Rs. 10/- per share but these

preferential allottes have been let off. Therefore the standard

of weak fundamentals cannot be applied in the case of the

appellants especially when on the same footing the

preferential allottees have been let off. We are of the opinion

that it is business prudence to purchase at a lesser price and

sell it at a higher price when the market is up thereby earning

profits. Making profits in our opinion cannot be termed illegal

or manipulative or fraudulent or violative of the PFUTP

Regulations. 32. We also are of the confirmed opinion that the appellants

are not connected with the Company or its promoters through

the six entities. The appellants are located in all parts of the

country and the appellants had purchased the shares through

agents and brokers. There is no evidence of any direct

connection with the six entities and, in any case, there is not

even an iota of evidence of the appellants being connected

with the Company, its directors, promoter related entities and

noticee nos. 9 to 11, etc. The finding that the appellants are

closely associated with the Company is patently erroneous. 33. On the other hand, the preferential allotments are given

to a chosen few by the Company and its directors especially

to their preferred persons who are known and closely

associated with the Company or its directors. Such

preferential allottees who are not strangers and who are

closely associated with the Company because of the

preferential allotment have been let off and, on the other

hand, the appellants who were strangers and who have no

direct connection with the Company and its promoter entities

etc have been unnecessarily charged. 34. We are also find that the WTM has given a categorical

finding that noticee no. 9 was the master mind who

manipulated the price with Company and its directors and

intermediaries for the benefit of the preferential allottees.

These preferential allottees have been let off. We find that

there is no direct connection of the appellants with noticee no. 9. There is no involvement of collusion or price manipulation

of the appellants and thus there cannot be any violation of

regulations 3 & 4 of the PFUTP Regulations. 35. We also find that in an identical matter in the case of

Mishka Finance and Trading Limited, the parties in that case

were exonerated who had bought the shares off market and

sold the same at a high price. These parties were exonerated

on the ground that there was no evidence that they had

manipulated the prices. We had perused the order of the

WTM dated October 5, 2017 in the case of Mishka Finance

and Trading Limited and we find that the facts and the pattern

are identical to the facts of the present case. Whereas the

noticees in Mishka Finance and Trading Limited have been

let off the appellants having an identical role in the trading

pattern have been wrongly booked. 36. The finding that the investments made by the appellants

cannot be termed as a regular investment made in the ordinary

course of business or trading as the Company had weak

fundamentals and financials is based on surmises and

conjectures and cannot be a ground to charge the appellants.

The finding that the appellants had purchased the shares

pursuant to a pre-decided scheme with an assurance of a

profitable exit at a manipulated price is purely based on

surmises and conjectures without any corroborative evidence.

This finding cannot be based on a preponderance of

probabilities especially in the absence of reasonable

explanation as to why would anyone give the appellants an

assurance of a profitable exit at manipulated price. Further,

there is nothing on record to suggest as to who had given such

an assurance to the appellants. Nothing has come on record to

indicate that the six entities had sold the shares for some

ulterior purpose. The six entities did not know these

appellants directly and unless there was some intention of

parting with the profits the charge of selling the shares with

huge profits under a pre-decided scheme is farfetched. 39 37. Insofar as the Dhanuka Family is concerned we are

satisfied that the finding that the said appellants were in close

proximity with the Company is based on surmises and

conjectures. It has come on record that there was business

dealings between the Company and one of the six entities,

namely, Bihariji in which loans were taken from the

Company at a higher rate of interest. The forensic auditor's

report appointed by SEBI has clearly given a finding that the

loans taken by Bihariji was in the usual course of business

and that there was nothing wrong in the said transactions.

Based on this forensic auditor's report the charge of the

Dhanuka family being promoter related entities was dropped.

Further, having a business connection with the Company does

not mean that there were part of the scheme of manipulating

the price or they were part of some collusion which in any

case is not the finding given by the WTM. The only charge is

that being connected through this loan transaction the

Dhanuka family is guilty of violation of regulations 3 & 4 of

the PFUTP Regulations which is perverse. 38. We are of the view that there is no connection between

the appellants and the Company, or its promoters, directors or 40 promoter entities. The appellants invested their own funds and

were not funded by anyone else nor there is any finding that

the profits earned by the appellants were shared with anyone

else either with the Company or its directors or with noticee

no. 9 or with the six entities. We further find that there is no

connection rather there is not even a thread of evidence to

show any connection between the appellants and the counter

party who bought the shares from the appellants. 39. The six entities have also filed Appeal Nos. 178, 179,

180 and 181 of 2020. The contention of these six entities are

that they bona fide purchasers of the shares from the promoter

Company. It was contended that they had given a loan to the

promoter Company and since the promoter Company failed to

repay the loan, the shares of the Company was given by the

promoter Company to the appellants towards the loan amount.

It was, thus, contended that since the promoter Company was

unable to pay the loan, the shares of the Company was

transferred to them in lieu of the loan and thereafter they

engaged one broker who sold these shares to the beneficiaries.

It was contended that the six entities had no connection with 41 the Company, its directors, promoters or the noticee nos. 9 to

11, 75, 77, 79 & 80. No other submission was raised by them. 40. Considering the matter that has been brought on record

we find that the WTM rejected the contention of these

appellants that the shares were transferred to them by the

erstwhile promoter Company against the outstanding loan.

We are in complete agreement with the findings given by the

WTM in as much as, other than this statement, there is no

other evidence to show that the loans were given to the

promoter Company. If there is no business connection with

the promoter Company and they are strangers then it is but

natural that when a loan is given, then collateral security is

taken. In the instant case neither there is any loan agreement

nor there is any collateral security to show that some loan was

given to the promoter Company. On the other hand, we find

that the promoter Company has given evidence to the effect

that they had sold the shares to these appellants on payment of

consideration which is reflected in their books of accounts.

This fact, when these six entities were accosted by the WTM,

was not disputed nor any other explanation has been offered.

We are further of the opinion that the shares transferred by 42 each of the noticee nos. 20 to 25 were not proportionate to the

alleged outstanding loans, if any. Thus, the stand of these six

entities that the shares were transferred to them by the

erstwhile promoter Company against the outstanding loans

cannot be accepted. 41. We also find that these six entities had acquired 30.91%

shares of the Company from the erstwhile promoters and paid

the sale consideration for the same in February / March-2012.

This finding is based on the bank statements and other

documentary evidence produced by noticee nos. 15 to 19.

Though the share transfer forms are executed on February 9,

2013 but we find that various appellants were given the

physical shares from December 2012 onwards. However, we

find that from February / March-2012 onwards the six entities

were basically controlling the affairs of the Company. The

Corporate Office of the Company was changed from Chennai

to Mumbai to a premise owned by one of the six entities,

namely, noticee no. 23 in and around April 2012. The

evidence on record which has come is that the Company was

paying rent to noticee no. 23. 42. We further find that two of the six entities, namely,

noticee nos. 22 and 23 were parties to emails /

correspondence in connection with the appointments of the

new directors of the Company and were involved in payment

to the RTA and the depository and was involved in the

revocation of the suspension and resumption of listing of the

shares of the Company and were also involved in the signing

of the transfer forms. The evidence also shows that the six

entities were also using the email id of the Company for

sending mails. All this indicates that the six entities had an

active role to play in the management of the affairs of the

Company from February / March - 2012 onwards. A direct

connection has been established between the six entities and

the Company and noticee no. 2. The six entities had also

acquired the preferential shares of the promoters and therefore

we are also of the opinion that the six entities were closely

associated with the Company from February / March - 2012

onwards and throughout the period when the preferential

allotments were made. We are, thus, of the opinion that the

six entities were closely connected with the Company and its

directors and had a role to play in the formulation of the

scheme of issuance of preferential allotment, pumping of the 44 price through LTP contributors and providing an exit

mechanism for the preferential allottee. Consequently, in our

opinion, the order of the WTM insofar as the six entities are

concerned does not suffer from any manifest error of law 43. For the reasons stated aforesaid, Appeal Nos. 102, 44,

85, 235, 246, 247, 571, 572, 573, 575 and 581 of 2020 are

allowed. The impugned order insofar as it relates to these

appellants is quashed. Appeal Nos. 178, 179, 180 and 181 of 2020 are

dismissed. In the circumstances of the case, there shall be no

order as to costs. 44. The present matter was heard through video conference

due to Covid-19 pandemic. At this stage it is not possible to

sign a copy of this order nor a certified copy of this order

could be issued by the registry. In these circumstances, this

order will be digitally signed by the Private Secretary on

behalf of the bench and all concerned parties are directed to

act on the digitally signed copy of this order. Parties will act

on production of a digitally signed copy sent by fax and/or

email. Justice Tarun Agarwala
 Presiding Officer

 Justice M.T. Joshi
 Judicial Member
08.06.2021 RAJALA Digitally signed
 by

msb KSHMI NAIR
 RAJALAKSHMI H

 Date: 2021.06.12
 H NAIR 18:23:43 +05'30'