Mr. Partha Pratim Roy,
 Mr. Saunak Sengupta,
 Mr. Soumyadeb Sinha,
 Ms. Suranjana Chatterjee

Heard on : 09.06.2025 & 10.06.2025

Hearing concluded on : 10.06.2025

Judgment on : 16.06.2025

Sabyasachi Bhattacharyya, J.:- interest of the defendant no.1/appellant, is a second sale of the

 scheduled property and therefore a void document and the same is not

 binding on the plaintiff as well as declaration that a sale certificate

 dated September 20, 2023 is also consequentially void and not binding

 upon the plaintiff. Since no relief has been sought for cancellation of

 the said deeds but the relief has been couched in declaratory form, the

 suit is governed by Article 58 of the Limitation Act and thus, the

 starting point of limitation is when the right to sue first accrued.

 Learned senior counsel for the appellant places reliance on Section 3 of

 the Transfer of Property Act, 1882, in terms of which a person

 acquiring a property is deemed to have notice of an instrument from

 the date of registration of the said instrument. Hence, it is argued that

 the limitation period for challenging the 2012 deed started from the

 year 2012 whereas the suit has been filed 12 years thereafter in 2024

 and, as such, is palpably time-barred. 3. Learned senior counsel also places reliance on Section 3 of the

 Limitation Act, which mandates the court to dismiss a suit if barred by

 limitation, although limitation has not been set up as a defence.

 Learned senior counsel cites Dahiben v. Arvindbhai Kalyanji Bhanusali 3 2025:CHC-AS:1031-DB

 (Gajra) (D) Thr LRs and Ors., reported at (2020) 7 SCC 366, where the

 Supreme Court considered the difference between Articles 58 and 59 of

 the Limitation Act and held that in case of the former, the limitation

 begins from when the right to sue "first" accrues, as opposed to the

 latter, where the knowledge of the facts entitling the plaintiff to have

 the instrument cancelled is the starting point. 4. Learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant next cites Shakti

 Bhog Food Industries Ltd. v. Central Bank of India and another , reported

 at (2020) 17 SCC 260, where the Supreme Court examined the

 distinctions between the Articles 58 and 113 of the Limitation Act . It

 was held that Article 113 stipulates that in case of successive arising of

 causes of action, the date when the right to sue accrues on any of such

 instances would be the starting point of limitation, as opposed to Article

 58 , where the first accrual of the right to sue is the starting point. 5. Learned senior counsel further cites Asma Lateef and Another v. Shabbir Ahmad and Others, reported at (2024) 4 SCC 696, for the

 proposition that it is the duty of the court, before granting any interim

 relief, to record its prima facie satisfaction on the question of

 maintainability. 6. Learned senior counsel also places reliance on an unreported judgment

 of a learned Single Judge of this Court in C.O. No. 622 of 2018 [GPT

 Healthcare Pvt. Ltd. v. Soorajmull Nagarmull & Ors. ], where the court

 held that when a deed is executed by an alleged stranger to the

 property affecting the title of the actual owner, the right to sue of the 4 2025:CHC-AS:1031-DB

 real owner accrues immediately and the starting point of limitation has

 to be fixed on the date of registration of the transfer deed. 7. Learned senior counsel for the appellant further argues that the

 conduct of the plaintiff/respondent no.1 in suppressing material facts

 to obtain the injunction order disentitled the plaintiff to have the favour

 of such order. 8. It is submitted that it is open to the appellant to argue such

 suppression of material facts even before the appellate court for the

 first time. It is contended that the certificate of delivery of possession of

 the suit property in favour of the appellant by virtue of a court sale,

 preceded by a sale certificate being issued, was suppressed by the

 respondent no.1 while obtaining the injunction order before the court

 below. By relying on Page 84 of the stay application filed in connection

 with the present appeal, which is a photocopy of the said certificate of

 delivery of possession, it is argued that the said document was

 disclosed in connection with a Ponzi Scheme matter before a Co-

 ordinate Bench of this Court which ultimately directed the sale of the

 property under the aegis of a one-man committee. Despite having

 knowledge of the same and having unsuccessfully filed a review

 application in respect of the order of the said Division Bench, the

 plaintiff/respondent no.1 suppressed such facts before the Trial Court.

 It is submitted that to obtain the equitable relief of injunction, one as to

 come with clean hands, which was absent in the present case. Learned

 senior counsel cites Mandali Ranganna and Others v. T. Ramachandra

 and others , reported at (2008) 11 SCC 1 for the proposition that the 5 2025:CHC-AS:1031-DB

 conduct of the parties must be taken into consideration while granting

 injunction apart from the basic elements such as existence of prima

 facie case, balance of convenience and irreparable injury, etc. A

 person, who had kept quiet for a long time and allowed another to deal

 with the properties exclusively, ordinarily would not be entitled to an

 order of injunction. 9. Learned senior counsel next cites Nair Service Society v. K.C. Alexander ,

 reported at AIR 1968 SC 1165, where the Supreme Court re-affirmed

 the principle that a person in possession of land in the assumed

 character of owner and exercising peaceably the ordinary rights of

 ownership has a perfectly good title against all the world but the

 rightful owner. If the rightful owner does not come forward and assert

 his title by the process of law within the period prescribed by the

 provisions of the statute of limitation applicable to the case, his right is

 forever extinguished and the possessory owner acquires an absolute

 title. 10. It is next contended by the appellant that the vendors of the plaintiff

 did not challenge the 2012 deed at any point of time and as such, the

 plaintiff, who stepped into the shoes of the said vendors, is precluded

 from challenging the same. 11. Learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant next argues that

 insofar as the second injunction application of the plaintiff, which was

 also disposed of by the impugned order, is concerned, no opportunity of

 filing written objection was given to the defendant no.1/appellant with 6 2025:CHC-AS:1031-DB

 regard to the same. Thus, the order is bad for violation of the

 established principle of natural justice, Audi Alteram Partem. 12. Lastly, it is submitted that with regard to the second injunction

 application, the requirements of Order XXXIX Rules 3(a) and 3(b) of the

 Code of Civil Procedure were not satisfied, which will be evident from

 the orders passed in the suit. 13. Thus, it is argued that the impugned order of injunction ought to be set

 aside. 14. Learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the plaintiff/respondent

 no.1 argues that in prayers (f) and (g) of the plaint, delivery up and

 cancellation of the impugned deed of 2012 and sale certificate of 2023

 was also claimed, thus, bringing the suit within the fold of Article 59 ,

 as opposed to Article 58 , of the Limitation Act . 15. It is submitted that even in Asma Lateef‟s case (supra), the Supreme

 Court observed that if the point of maintainability and bar of law is

 raised at the time of grant of interim relief, the court is duty-bound to

 record its satisfaction in respect of the maintainability of the suit. In

 the present case, the defendant no.1/appellant neither filed any written

 objection nor raised the question of maintainability and/or limitation at

 any point of time in the Trial Court. 16. It is argued that the general notice contemplated under Section 3 of the

 Transfer of Property Act cannot be construed to give rise to a cause of

 action within the contemplation of Article 58 of the Limitation Act . It is

 impractical to impute knowledge of registration, which happens within

 the confines of the registration office, to the world at large, at the 7 2025:CHC-AS:1031-DB

 juncture when such registration takes place. The right of the plaintiff to

 challenge the impugned deeds first accrued, as per the plaint case,

 when attempts to develop the property were undertaken and the

 auction sale notice and subsequent sale certificate first came to the

 knowledge of the plaintiff. Thus, the suit has been filed well within the

 statutory limitation period and is accordingly maintainable. 17. It is further pointed out that even in the auction notice annexed to the

 plaint, the property was to be sold on „as is where is‟ basis and the

 principle of „caveat emptor‟ was stressed, thus, casting the burden on

 the defendant no.1/purchaser to ascertain the actual title in respect of

 the suit property. Having purchased the property despite the same, the

 defendant no.1/appellant is subject to the prior rights and title of the

 vendor of the plaintiff as well as the plaintiff. The appellant, thus,

 cannot take advantage of his own negligence and lack of diligence in

 failing to carry out proper search before purchasing the suit property. 18. Regarding possession, it is submitted that the consistent plaint case

 has been that the plaintiff and its predecessors-in-title have been in

 possession of the suit property all along. 19. Documents of grant of permission issued by the local Panchayat to the

 predecessors of the plaintiff and subsequently the plaintiff to build

 boundary wall around the suit property have been annexed to the

 plaint. Further, a field enquiry report in respect of a proceeding

 initiated by the defendant no.1/appellant under Section 144 of the

 Code of Criminal Procedure, also annexed to the plaint, goes on to show

 that the defendant no.1 was never in possession of the suit property. 8 2025:CHC-AS:1031-DB

 Thus, there is no question of suppression of any material fact before

 the Trial Court. 20. The purported certificate of delivery of possession annexed at Page 84

 of the stay application was not disclosed by the defendant no.1 in the

 court below, despite having ample opportunity to do so. In any event,

 the same does not show convincingly that actual physical possession

 was handed over to the defendant no.1/appellant at any point of time. 21. Learned senior counsel for the plaintiff/respondent no.1 further argues

 that there is nothing on record to show that MPS Greenery, the

 predecessor-in-interest of the defendant no.1/appellant, ever obtained

 possession of the property. Thus, there was no occasion for the

 vendors of the plaintiff or the plaintiff, before coming to know of the

 court sale, to challenge the 2012 deed or the sale certificate of 2023. 22. It is submitted that the defendant no.1/appellant lost his right to file a

 written objection to the first injunction application since he failed the

 timeline stipulated for so filing by a co-ordinate Bench of this Court in

 an appeal against the ad interim refusal of injunction. The High Court

 granted injunction in the said appeal. 23. The prayers made in the second injunction application already found

 place in the first injunction application. The second injunction

 application was, in fact, prompted due to further cause of action having

 arisen. Hence, there could not arise any occasion to grant further

 opportunity to the defendant to file written objection thereto. The

 injunction application was initially fixed on February 26, 2025, which

 was declared as a holiday subsequently in the Trial Court, due to which 9 2025:CHC-AS:1031-DB

 a put-up petition had to be filed on February 27, 2025 for fixation of a

 date for hearing of the injunction application. It is submitted that the

 defendant no.1, who was all along participating in the suit, ought to

 have been more diligent in filing his written objection. 24. Thus, it is argued that no illegality was perpetrated by the learned Trial

 Judge in passing the impugned order of temporary injunction. 25. Having heard learned counsel for the parties, we find that the following

 issues have arisen for consideration in the present case: 26. The first germane question which arises for consideration is whether

 the learned Trial Judge ought to have refused injunction in view of the

 suit not being maintainable, being barred by limitation. 10 2025:CHC-AS:1031-DB 27. The appellant has argued that the suit is covered by Article 58 of the Limitation Act whereas the plaintiff/respondent no.1 insists that Article

 59 is the relevant provision governing the suit. 28. There cannot be any manner of doubt that the principal reliefs sought

 in the suit are the dual challenge to the registered deed of 2012 in

 favour of MPS Greenery, the predecessor-in-interest of the defendant

 no.1/appellant, and to the registered sale certificate dated September

 20, 2023 executed in favour of the defendant no. 1/ appellant. Relief (c) and Relief (d) of the plaint respectively seek declaration regarding the

 2012 Deed and the 2023 Sale Certificate to the effect that such

 documents are void documents and not binding on the plaintiff in any

 manner. However, the reliefs sought in the plaint directly in respect of

 the said documents do not stop there. In logical extension of relief (c),

 relief (f) of the plaint seeks delivery up and cancellation of the 2012

 Deed. Similarly, the prayer (g) is a logical continuation of prayer (d),

 seeking delivery up and cancellation of the Sale Certificate of 2023. 29. Article 58 of the Limitation Act can only be invoked as a residuary

 provision, if the suit is for any declaration other than those provided for

 in Part-III of the Schedule to the Limitation Act, which deals with suits

 relating to declarations. 30. However, Article 59 specifically deals with suits inter alia to cancel or

 set aside an instrument. Prayers (c) and (f) on the one hand and

 Prayers (d) and (g) on the other, read in conjunction, leave no manner

 of doubt that the suit is primarily one for cancellation of the deed of 11 2025:CHC-AS:1031-DB

 2012 and the sale certificate of 2023. Thus, it is Article 59 of the Limitation Act , as opposed to Article 58 , which is applicable. 31. Article 59 stipulates the starting point of limitation to be when the facts

 entitling the plaintiff to have the instrument cancelled or set aside first

 become known to him. The plaint case in that regard can be culled out

 in particular from paragraphs 6, 7 and 30 of the plaint. As per the said

 provisions, the plaintiff sought to exploit the suit property commercially

 in November, 2023 and intended to enter into a development

 agreement. The developer, while conducting searches, unearthed the

 sale certificate dated September 20, 2023, upon which appropriate

 enquiries were made and the plaintiff learnt about the purported sale in

 favour of the defendant no.1/appellant. The sale certificate itself

 discloses the 2012 Deed, and as such, as per the plaint case, the cause

 of action arose first on November 18, 2023 and the suit was filed duly

 within the limitation period on October 7, 2024. 32. Even if we were to proceed on the premise that Article 58 is applicable,

 the said provision, being residuary in nature, applies to all suits for

 declaration of any other nature than those provided for in Part-III of the

 Schedule to the Limitation Act. Hence, by its very nature, it partakes

 the character and derives colour from the nature of the declaration

 sought. If the suit challenges a deed, such a challenge can only be

 within the contemplation of Section 31 of the Specific Relief Act, 1963

 (for short, "the 1963 Act"). Section 31(1) of the 1963 Act provides that

 any person against whom a written instrument is void or voidable, and

 who has reasonable apprehension that such instrument, if left 12 2025:CHC-AS:1031-DB

 outstanding, my cause him serious injury, may sue to have it adjudged

 void or voidable; and the court may, in its discretion, so adjudge it and

 order it to be delivered up and cancelled. 33. Thus, even if a suit is filed to have a written instrument adjudged void

 or voidable, the court, if it chooses to so adjudge, has necessarily to

 order it to be delivered up and cancelled. In fact, Chapter-V of the 1963

 Act, under which Section 31 is arrayed, itself is captioned "Cancellation

 of Instruments". 34. Thus, conspicuously, even if a suit is filed under Section 31 of the 1963

 Act for adjudication of a written instrument to be void or voidable, the

 relief granted in the said suit would be delivery up and cancellation of

 the deeds. Read in such context, even if a prayer is made in the plaint

 simpliciter for adjudication that a deed is void or voidable, the suit is

 necessarily one for cancellation or setting aside such instrument, since

 that is the relief which the court can grant under Section 31 if it allows

 the declaration sought by the plaintiff and adjudicates the deed to be

 void or voidable. Thus, even a suit for declaration of a deed to be void

 or voidable ultimately partakes the character of a suit for cancellation

 or setting aside of such instrument and comes within the ambit of Article 59 of the Limitation Act . Thus, Article 58 cannot be attracted in

 any event and even if it was, the starting point of limitation would be

 when the right to sue first accrues, which would borrow its hue from Article 59 and it has to be deemed that such first accrual would be on

 the date when the facts entitling the plaintiff to have the instrument

 cancelled first becomes known to him. 2025:CHC-AS:1031-DB 35. The reliance of the appellant on GPT Healthcare Pvt. Ltd. (supra) is

 misplaced. Apart from the fact that the same was rendered by one of

 us (namely, Bhattacharyya,J.) sitting singly and not being binding per

 se on a Division Bench , the said judgment has also to be read in proper

 context. In the said case, there are recurring findings of the court that

 the plaintiff was aware of the possession of the defendant. Read in such

 context, coupled with the fact that the challenged deed was registered,

 it was held that the right to sue accrued on the date of registration. 36. As opposed thereto, in the present case, Article 59 is attracted and the

 entitlement of the plaintiff to have the instrument cancelled has to be

 read in the context of the first infringement of the legal rights of the

 plaintiff. 37. The Supreme Court, in Dahiben (supra), held that the right to sue

 accrues only when the cause of action arises and the suit must be

 instituted when the right asserted in the suit is infringed, or when there

 is a clear and unequivocal threat to infringe such right by the

 defendant. 38. In the present case, the legal right, title and interest of the plaintiff was

 infringed only by virtue of the execution of the sale certificate in favour

 of the defendant no.1/appellant and the knowledge of the plaintiff of

 such infringement, which substantially constituted such infringement

 itself, regarding the 2012 deed also accrued in the year 2023 from the

 sale certificate and the connected proceedings. Thus, even in terms of

 the ratio laid down in Dahiben (supra), the present suit is not ex facie

 barred by limitation. 2025:CHC-AS:1031-DB 39. Shakti Bhog Food Industries Ltd.‟s case is not germane in the present

 context, since there the Supreme Court was distinguishing between the

 provisions of Articles 58 and 113 of the Limitation Act , both of which

 were in the nature of residuary provisions, since none of the said

 provisions is applicable to the present case. 40. Insofar as Asma Lateef's (supra) case is concerned, the Supreme Court

 held in the said case that where interim relief is claimed, the court has

 to record its satisfaction on the question of maintainability when the

 other party to the suit raises a point of maintainability or the objection

 that the suit is barred by law. In the present case, despite getting

 ample opportunity, the defendant no.1 failed to raise any such

 objection. 41. The reliance of the appellant on Section 3 of the Limitation Act is also

 misconceived, since the suit is not ex facie barred by limitation as per

 the averments of the plaint and the injunction application. Limitation,

 at best, can be a mixed question of fact and law in the present case,

 which is to be decided at the stage of trial of the suit. It is well-settled

 that at the injunction stage, the court shall not conduct a mini-trial

 and the concept of "triable issue" and "prima facie case" cannot be

 confused with an adjudication on title. The plaintiff claims possession

 all along, by itself and through its predecessors-in-interest, and pleads

 knowledge of the infringement of such right and title only in the year

 2023 and as such, there was no occasion for the learned Trial Judge to

 hold at the injunction stage that the suit is not maintainable, being

 barred by limitation. 2025:CHC-AS:1031-DB 42. Insofar as Section 3 of the Transfer of Property Act is concerned, the

 Section commences with the words "in this Act, unless there is

 something repugnant in the subject or context...". The Section then

 proceeds to stipulate that a person is said to have notice of a fact when

 he actually knows the fact or but for wilful abstention from an enquiry

 or search which he ought to have made, or gross negligence, he would

 have known it. None of the said yardsticks are applicable in the

 present case. 43. Explanation I of the said provision stipulates the notice of a registered

 instrument from the date of registration. However, as observed earlier,

 the said notice operates only within the four corners of the Transfer of

 Property Act and cannot be superimposed on any other statute,

 including the Limitation Act . Since Section 3 comprises of the

 interpretation clause in the context of the Transfer of Property Act itself, unless repugnant to the context, the concept of „notice‟ under the

 said Act cannot be confused with the commencement of „knowledge‟ as

 contemplated in the Limitation Act . 44. In fact, several Sections of the Transfer of Property Act itself, such as

 Sections 39 and 40, speak about „notice‟ and, as such, the

 interpretation of notice under Section 3 of the said Act has to be

 applied in such context alone and cannot be transposed to a different

 statute. Hence, the argument that "notice" under Section 3 of the

 Transfer of Property Act is equivalent to "knowledge" for the purpose of

 starting point of limitation under the Limitation Act is entirely

 misconceived. 2025:CHC-AS:1031-DB 45. The reliance of the appellant on Mandali Ranganna (supra) is also

 rather misplaced since, unlike the facts of the said case, the

 plaintiff/respondent no. 1 herein instituted the suit and moved the

 injunction application soon after learning of the Sale Certificate of 2023

 and, therefrom, about the 2012 deed. So, there arose no question of the

 plaintiff sitting tight over the infringement of its right and permitting

 such infraction of its right to continue without taking any steps. 46. Accordingly, this issue is held in the negative and it cannot be said that

 the suit is barred by limitation or non-maintainable on such count. (ii) Whether the plaintiff/respondent no.1 suppressed material

 facts, thus, disentitling it to injunction 47. A question arises as to whether the non-disclosure of the „certificate of

 delivery of possession‟ annexed at Page 84 of the stay application filed

 by the appellant in the present appeal in the Trial Court tantamounted

 to suppression of a material fact. 48. While deciding such issue, we cannot lose sight of the fact that no

 injunction was granted by the learned Trial Judge in respect of

 possession of the suit property, nor was such prayer made in the

 second injunction application filed by the plaintiff/respondent no.1 in

 the Trial Court. Thus, possession was not a determinant in the

 impugned order. 2025:CHC-AS:1031-DB 49. Moreover, the plaintiff has all along asserted its possession in respect of

 the suit property and denies that the defendant is in occupation

 thereof. The plaintiff, with its plaint and injunction application,

 annexed documents to evidence prima facie that permission was

 granted to the predecessor-in-interest of the plaintiff as well as to the

 plaintiff to construct boundary wall around the suit property.

 Moreover, a document in the nature of an enquiry report, filed in

 connection with a proceeding under Section 144 of the Criminal

 Procedure Code initiated by the defendant no.1/appellant, showing that

 the appellant is not in possession of the property, was also produced by

 the plaintiff/respondent no. 1 in the trial Court. 50. In such context, it is arguable as to whether the certificate of delivery of

 possession assumes much importance, since it is debatable as to

 whether the same indicates notional/symbolic possession or actual

 physical possession being handed over to the appellant. In fact, the

 said document does not specifically contain anything to indicate as to

 whether actual physical possession was handed over; if so, how it was

 handed over, who were present at the spot, whether there were any

 witnesses and if so, what were their antecedents, and also from whom

 the possession was purportedly taken. 51. That apart, the defendant no.1/appellant failed to avail of the

 opportunity to file written objection as granted by the co-ordinate

 Bench in appeal against the previous refusal of ad interim injunction,

 by virtue of which it could very well have produced the said document. 18 2025:CHC-AS:1031-DB 52. In such context, we do not find that non-disclosure of the said

 document by the plaintiff, particularly since the defendant no.1 took no

 initiative to do so, vitiates the impugned order for suppression of a fact

 so material as to possibly alter the adjudication in the Trial Court. (iii) Whether the plaintiff/respondent no.1 is entitled to

 challenge the deed of 2012 since its vendors did not

 challenge the same 53. Neither the plaintiff nor its vendors had any occasion to challenge the

 deed of 2012, since no rights were asserted at any point of time by MPS

 Greenery on the basis of such deed at any point of time. There is

 nothing on record to indicate that the legal right enuring in favour of

 the plaintiff and its predecessors by virtue of the transfers in their

 favour, which could be traced back to the year 1964, was ever infringed

 and/or the deed of 2012 was every disclosed or acted upon. 54. As per our above discussion, the concept of "a person having notice" 55. Another aspect cannot be overlooked here, being that the auction notice

 by dint of which the defendant no.1/appellant purchased the property

 clearly gave out disclaimers to the effect that the rule of „caveat emptor‟

 applied and that the purchase would be on "as is where is basis",

 thereby casting liability entirely on the purchaser to ascertain whether

 proper title would be derived by it through such purchase. Thus, the

 auction notice did not make any pretentions to transfer unencumbered

 and valid title as such. Hence, even without a challenge to the 2012

 deed, it was the incumbent duty of the auction purchaser to ascertain

 by proper search as to the antecedent title in respect of the suit

 property. As such, the fact that the vendors of the plaintiff did not

 challenge the 2012 deed is not germane in the present context, as there

 arose no occasion for the said vendors to challenge the same at any

 given point of time. In the plaint and the injunction application, it is

 clearly disclosed that the cause of action for challenging the said deed

 was revealed to the plaintiff only upon the plaintiff coming across the

 sale certificate in the year 2023 for the first time. 56. The appellant relies on Nair Service Society (supra), where the Supreme

 Court held that if a person exercises possession in respect of a property 20 2025:CHC-AS:1031-DB

 peaceably, he acquires title against the whole world but against the

 true owner. If the true owner does not assert title within the limitation

 period, his right is forever extinguished. 57. However, the ratio of the said report is not apt in the facts of the

 instant case. There is precious nothing on record to show even prima

 facie that MPS Greenery asserted its ownership or ever was in

 possession of the suit property pursuant to the purported sale deed of

 2012 which, in any event, did not confer any title on MPS Greenery in

 view of its vendors themselves having no title. Thus, the

 plaintiff/respondent no. 1 and its predecessors, being the true owners

 as per their chain deeds, never had any occasion or cause of action to

 challenge the deed of 2012 before it came to the fore in 2023. 58. Hence, the plaintiff is very much entitled to challenge the 2012 deed

 upon first coming to know of it in the year 2023, irrespective of its

 predecessors-in-title having not done so. (iv) Whether the impugned order is vitiated by violation of the

 principle of Audi Alteram Partem 59. A co-ordinate Bench of this Court, in the appeal preferred against the

 refusal of ad interim injunction at the initial stage, clearly stipulated

 the time-limit for filing written objection to the first injunction

 application. The defendant no.1/appellant, having failed to file such

 objection within the said time, lost its opportunity to do so. Thus, it is 21 2025:CHC-AS:1031-DB

 an incorrect submission that no opportunity was given to the appellant

 to contest the first injunction application by filing a written objection

 thereto. 60. The second injunction application was merely prompted by further

 cause of action and can be read as a supplementary pleading to the

 first injunction application, more so since the prayers contained in the

 second injunction application were already made in the first such

 application and were subsumed by the prayers made in the first

 injunction application. 61. In fact, in the second injunction application, the prayers of the first

 were curtailed insofar as the possession of the plaintiff is concerned. 62. Thus, it is immaterial as to whether any further opportunity could be

 given to the appellant to file written objection to the second injunction

 application. Rather, having lost its opportunity to deal with the self-

 same facts as pleaded the first injunction application, such right of

 filing of written objection could not be reopened in the garb of granting

 such opportunity in respect of the second injunction application. 63. The contents of the first and the second injunction application were

 substantially the same insofar as the germane facts are concerned.

 Hence, even without the second injunction application, the prayers of

 the first injunction application would cover that of the second and the

 learned Trial Judge acted well within her jurisdiction in granting the

 same. 64. Thus, this issue is also decided against the appellant. 22 2025:CHC-AS:1031-DB

 CONCLUSION 65. In view of the above discussions, we find that there was no infirmity or

 illegality committed by the learned Trial Judge in passing the impugned

 order of injunction and all the relevant factors were adverted to duly in

 the impugned order. As such, there is no scope of interference with the

 impugned order. 66. Accordingly, F.M.A. No.555 of 2025 is dismissed on contest against the

 plaintiff/respondent no.1, thereby affirming the impugned order dated

 March 1, 2025 passed by the learned Civil Judge (Senior Division),

 Seventh Court at Alipore, District - South 24 Parganas in Title Suit

 No.1424 of 2024. 67. Consequentially, CAN 1 of 2025 is disposed of as well. 68. There will be no order as to costs. (Sabyasachi Bhattacharyya, J.)

 I agree. (Uday Kumar, J.)