1. By way of this petition under Section 397 CrPC, the revisionist has
assailed order dated 04.02.2019 of the learned Magistrate whereby application
under Section 156(3) CrPC of the revisionist/complainant was dismissed, granting
her an opportunity to substantiate her allegations by leading evidence. The private
respondents herein are officers of a bank, sought to be summoned for trial as
accused. I heard learned counsel for the revisionist and the private respondents as
well as learned prosecutor for the State, who all took me through records. 2. Briefly stated, the circumstances leading to the impugned order are
as follows. 2.1 The revisionist, a practicing lady advocate holds, since the year 2011
an account and a credit card issued by the respondent bank. On 22.08.2018, the
revisionist got a call from the respondent bank, demanding certain payments
outstanding against the said credit card, to which the revisionist politely assured
to pay within two weeks. 2.2 But again on 24.08.2018, the revisionist received another phone call
from the specified phone number at 09:00pm and the caller identified himself to
be from the respondent bank. The caller started hurling abuses without any reason
or provocation and said "tu paise de rahi hai ya nahi? Mujhe pata hai tu kahan
rehti hai aur wo bhi akeli, agar seedhi tarah se paise nahi diye toh hume aur bhi
tarike aate hain". The revisionist got scared on hearing the said call.
2.3 Thereafter on 27.08.2018, three persons from the respondent bank
came to the chamber of the revisionist in Civil Wing, Tis Hazari Courts and in the
presence of her clients and staff, again started hurling abuses, saying "paisa tere
baap ka hai jo nahi de rahi hai. Agar tune paisa nahi diya toh tujhe pata nahi ki Cr. Revision No.366/2019 Priya Darshini Arora vs State & Ors. Page 2 of pages 12 3 hum kya kar sekte hain". On account of shouting by the said persons outside the
chamber of the revisionist, her image was tarnished amongst her neighbors.
2.4 On 10.09.2018, again the revisionist received a call and the caller
asked, "Priya bol rahi hai, main Axis Bank se bol raha hoon". The revisionist
immediately conveyed her refusal to speak with said person or anybody from Axis
Bank and handed over the telephone to a colleague after which the caller
disconnected the call. 2.5 The revisionist tried calling up the respondent bank to enquire about
the identity of the callers but the bank did not disclose the same.
2.6 On 10.10.2018 at about 05:56pm, the revisionist received another
phone call in which the caller asked "tu Priya bol rahi hai?" When the revisionist
affirmed her identity, the caller said "tu seedhi tarah se paise de rahi hai ya hum
koi aur tarika apnaye". When the revisionist asked the caller to speak properly
and politely, the caller shouted back "Mujhe tameez sikhane wali tu hoti kaun
hain. Khud toh paise de nahi rahi aur mujhe tameez sikhane chali hai". Hearing
this, the revisionist disconnected the call and blocked the said phone number.
2.7 The revisionist believes that all those illegal threatening calls were
made by the anti-social elements and goons engaged by the private respondents
in order to illegally extort money from her. According to the revisionist, even if
she owed some money to the respondent bank, procedure laid down by law ought
to have been adopted instead of making such phone calls to her. Since the local
police of PS Sabzi Mandi did not take any action on the complaint filed by her,
the revisionist filed an application under Section 156(3) CrPC in the magisterial
court, which culminated into the impugned order. Hence, the present revision
petition. Priya Darshini Arora vs State & Ors. Page 3 of pages 12 4 3. In the impugned order, the learned magistrate took a view that
apparently some outstanding payments against the credit card were not made by
the revisionist so the officials of the recovery wing of the respondent bank were
repeatedly calling her up and she has specified some selected portions of her
conversation with those officials. The learned magistrate further observed in the
impugned order that no doubt the language used is harsh and may be offensive
for any educated woman, but the same would not bring her case within the
parameters of any cognizable offence. Therefore, the application under Section
156(3) CrPC was dismissed granting opportunity to the revisionist to substantiate
her allegations by leading evidence. 4. On behalf of the revisionist, it was argued that her complaint prima
facie establishes offences under Section 506 IPC and under Section 509 IPC,
insofar as the utterances made by the agents of the accused persons intimidated
the revisionist and she got scared. Further, according to the revisionist, the
utterances of the agents of the accused persons also amount to offence under Section 509 IPC. So far as the offence alleged under Section 506 IPC is
concerned, for present purposes, it was fairly admitted on behalf of the revisionist
that the offence under Section 506 IPC being a non-cognizable offence, the police
could not have registered a case and even the learned magistrate could not have
directed investigation under Section 156(3) CrPC. But since the offence under Section 506 IPC was committed in the same transaction as with the offence under Section 509 IPC, the latter offence being a cognizable offence, according to the
revisionist, the learned magistrate ought to have directed the registration of FIR
and investigation. According to the revisionist, the learned magistrate erred in
holding that no cognizable offence is made out. Priya Darshini Arora vs State & Ors. Page 4 of pages 12 5 6. Learned counsel for the revisionist referred to the utterances of the
recovery agents, as detailed in the complaint of the revisionist as well as in the
present revision petition, and contended that the words uttered by the recovery
agents of the accused persons clearly amount to outraging the modesty of the
revisionist since she is living alone, so offence under Section 509 IPC is made
out. In support of his arguments, learned counsel for revisionist placed reliance
on the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Rupam Deol Bajaj
vs Kanwar Pal Singh Gill, MANU/SC/0080/1996 and of the Hon'ble Gauhati
High Court in the case of Swapna Barman vs Subir Dass,
MANU/GH/0277/2003 . 7. Learned counsel for private respondents argued that there is no
evidence brought by the revisionist in support of her allegation that she received
late night phone calls, as she could have placed on record screen shots of her call
logs. It was also argued by learned counsel for private respondents that merely
on the oral statements of the revisionist, FIR could not registered by police. As
regards the offence under Section 509 IPC, learned counsel for private
respondents argued that offence under Section 509 IPC is not made out insofar as
the 'modesty' referred to in Section 509 IPC implies the sexuality of a woman
and unless the utterances shock decency of the lady concerned, offence under Section 509 IPC is not made out. In support of her arguments, learned counsel
for private respondents placed reliance on the judgment of Hon'ble Bombay High
Court in the case of Sau. Anuradha R. Kshirsagar vs State of Maharashtra &
Ors , 1991 CriLJ 410. 8. Learned prosecutor supported the impugned order contending that
the alleged utterances of the recovery agents of the private respondents do not Cr. Revision No.366/2019 Priya Darshini Arora vs State & Ors. Page 5 of pages 12 6 amount to invasion of privacy and at the most only an offence of intimidation is
prima facie made out under Section 506 IPC which is a non-cognizable offence,
so the FIR cannot be registered in this case. 9. The core question accordingly is as to whether the complaint filed
by the revisionist prima facie makes out an offence under Section 509 IPC. If so,
the offence under Section 509 IPC being a cognizable offence, the view taken by
the learned magistrate in the impugned order cannot be upheld. 10. At the outset, it would be apposite to traverse through the relevant
legal position. 10.1 The provision under section 509 IPC lays down thus: 10.2 In the case of Rupan Deol Bajaj (supra), relied upon by learned
counsel for the revisionist, the act of the accused, tested on the anvil of Section
509 IPC was the accused slapping the complainant lady on her posterior. The
Hon'ble Supreme Court held that the ultimate test for ascertaining whether
modesty has been outraged is: whether the action of the offender such, as could
be perceived as one which is capable of shocking the sense of decency of a
woman; and the act of slapping the lady on her posterior certainly amounted to
outraging her modesty, because it was not only an affront to the normal sense of
feminine decency, but also an affront to the dignity of the lady - "sexual
overtones" or not, notwithstanding. Priya Darshini Arora vs State & Ors. Page 6 of pages 12 7 10.3 In the case of Swapna Barman (supra), relied upon by learned
counsel for the revisionist, the impugned act was that for past 7-8 months, the
accused, coupling his name with the complainant used to call her up, inflicting
abusive language, and on the fateful night at about 11:30pm, the accused entered
verandah of her house and knocked at the door calling her names, uttering that her
life would not be happy with Dhiresh (husband of complainant) and that it is he
(the accused) who is her husband. The Hon'ble Gauhati High Court held that if a
prudent man goes through these statements, he will definitely come to a
conclusion that there was evil intention on the part of that person using the
language depending on the manner in which it was spoken, the odd hours and
place where it was spoken. The Hon'ble High Court also held that coupling the
name with the name of a woman is sufficient to insult her modesty. 10.4 In the case of Sau.Anuradha (supra), relied upon by learned counsel
for private respondents, the impugned act was the utterances of the accused,
exhorting to catch the ladies by their hair, kick them on the waist, pull them out
and see as to how those lady teachers, who did not leave the hall, stay at Akola.
The Hon'ble Bombay High Court held thus: in State of Punjab v. Major Singh , observed in paragraph 13
 : Bachawat, J. in paragraph 16 observed : 6A. Sarkar, J. dissented with the majority decision, but the
 dissent was on other point with which we are not concerned
 in the present case. The dissent was on the point whether the
 woman must necessarily be conscious of the assault on her Cr. Revision No.366/2019 Priya Darshini Arora vs State & Ors. Page 8 of pages 12 9 modesty. As far as the other position is concerned, there is
 unanimity of opinion. The concept of 'modesty' concerns
 with feminity including sex. Wherever there is an assault or
 insult to this feminity or the like qualities accompanying it,
 the offence under Section 509 of the Indian Penal Code will
 be made out. 7. From this point of view, the utterances with which we are
 concerned in the present case, do not violate the concept of
 feminity. Catching the woman by hair, kicking on her waist,
 pulling her out or giving threats has nothing to do with the
 feminity and consequently it has nothing to do with the
 modesty of the woman. These are the common offences vis-
 a-vis a female or a male. This is altogether different category.
 In my opinion, therefore, the learned Additional Sessions
 Judge was quite right in coming to the conclusion that the
 offence under Section 509 of the Indian Penal Code is not
 made out." (emphasis supplied)

10.5 In the case of S.K.Bhalla vs State, Crl.M.C. No. 2727/2009, decided
by the Hon'ble Single Judge of the Delhi High Court on 13.05.2011, the factual
matrix on test was that the respondents, neighbours of petitioner demolished the
existing structure of their property and raised new construction with two windows
at the first floor of the construction, which overlooked the courtyard of the
property of the petitioner; that petitioner protested against opening of the windows
so, respondent No. 2 converted one of those windows into a ventilator, but the
petitioner was not satisfied and insisted on closing of the window as well as the
ventilator; that when the respondents refused to oblige, petitioner filed a criminal
complaint under Section 509 / 109 IPC. The Hon'ble Delhi High Court held thus: