(31.03.2022) 1. The issues under consideration arising out of the second appeal dated 07.07.2019
include non-receipt of the following information raised by the appellant through the RTI
application dated 14.01.2019 and first appeal dated 04.03.2019:- recording of the rejection of defense documents, threatening the proposed defense
 witnesses by Mr. Anvesh at the instance of the then inquiry authority, and several
 other omission and commissions taken place during inquiry proceedings against the
 RTI Applicant and against Mr. J Pardha Saradhi in respect of the account of M/s Shri
 Hari Hara Cold Storage. CPIO in his previous reply had clearly mentioned that Quote: SERP is
 extracting eligible SHGs data from Data filed and directly credited to the SHG
 Accounts without intervention of the Bank for crediting in to beneficiaries.
 Based on your reply provide the following information? (i) Whether the Bank has given access to SERP to cull out the data from Bank's
 FINACLE menu? If yes provide the relevant branch Circular. (ii) If No, Provide the information that who will file the DATA to SERP and
 procedure to file the Data as per Bank and SERP guidelines? (iii) Provide the names of the officials who had filed the DATA with SERP between
 2015 & 2018 (iv) Provide the information about who had provided the SB Account numbers and
 copies of SB account pass books to AP Mahila Sadhikara Samstha (APMSS)
 for direct credit of Capital Infusion funds. Whether the consent of the SHG
 members or SB Account holders was obtained? If not is not an invasion in to
 Customers secrecy? So, please provide your Bank's guidelines to share such
 information to others. The allegations leveled in the charge sheet issued to Mr.
 K Koteswara Rao indicate that these account holders were not aware of the
 opening of accounts in their names and pass books were not delivered to them?
 Please provide the photo copy of the delivery of pass books to the respective
 account holders, duly acknowledged by them as documentary evidence. (v) Please provide the date of reporting of the above modus operandi to the
 officials of MEPMA and APMSS and also provide copy of the communications
 with MEPMA and APMSS (vi) Provide the period in which these SB Accounts were opened at Arundalpet
 Branch and who had authorized opening of accounts which contains the cell
 number of Mrs. Sarala instead of account holder? (vii) GO MS NO 62 dated 30-05-2015 page No 6 para 4 under the head Quantum of
 Capital Infusion Quote: In the first instance, each group will receive three
 thousand Rupees (Rs 3000) per eligible member, which entails a group with ten
 members will receive Thirty Thousand Rupees (Rs 30,000) during Janma
 Bhoomi Programme between June 02 and 8, 2015. Please provide the amount
 of capital infusion received from APMSS in 88 (eighty eight) SHG accounts
 mentioned in the charge sheet issued to Mr. K Koteswara Rao between 2015 to
 2018 for each year in each account with full details. (viii) Provide the capital infusion funds received in 19 bogus SHG loan accounts
 financed by the successor of Mr. K Koteswara Rao after 22-09-2017 (ix) GO MS No 62 dated 30-05-2015 Page NO 7 under the head Flow of Funds
 para No 7 Quote: The AP MSS will in turn transfer the amount deposited in its
 PD Account for the purpose of capital infusion to the Group Savings Account
 of all eligible SHGs as per the guidelines through NEFT/RTGS. Unquote. The
 Bank had issued charge sheet about the irregular finance to SHG accounts
 under Article I and Article II and proved the charges against Mr. K Koteswara
 Rao and inflicted capital punishment,. It proves that the Bank had accepted
 that the said SHG finance was fraudulent. Hence, the said SHG Group
 accounts are not eligible for CAPITAL INFUSION funds OR PASUPU
 KUMKUMA or interest reimbursement. Provide the details of the amount
 received from AP Government UNDER VARIOUS HEADS and the amount
 returned to them and date of return. (List of accounts available in the AOC and
 daily order sheet which recorded the Management Exhibits and the inquiry
 report of Mr. M Udaya Bhaskar and K N Murthy). (x) GO MS No 62 dated 30-05-2015 Page NO 7 para 9 under the head Public
 information; Quote: To ensure that all the members become fully aware of the
 opportunities for economic development launched by the Government through Page 4 of 11 Capital infusion Scheme. Unquote. The said para had clearly indicated that
 providing capital infusion funds is not a confidential matter and it should be
 widely publicized. Since the competent authority had issued the charge sheet
 about sanction of SHG loans to not the real members of SHGs and also they
 were brought to the bank by paying the paltry amounts and proved the charges
 and inflicted capital punishment provide the steps taken by Bank to refund the
 amount to the respective organization APMSS and or MEPMA. (xi) The present Branch Head of Arundalpet Branch was the lone Management
 Witness and presented the Management Exhibits to prove the charges. Provide
 the steps taken by him for refund of the Government funds which were provided
 to bank by APMSS due to the fraudulent information and or data filed with
 them by Bank of India, Arundalpet Branch in the SHG accounts mentioned in
 the charge sheet issued to Shri K Koteswara Rao and by his successor. (xii) Provide the steps taken by the Bank to find out the veracity of the members of
 the remaining SHG Groups financed by Bank which was not reflected in the
 departmental inquiry proceedings as the SHG Groups deposited Rs 50000 as
 their savings in each group. (xiii) Provide the steps taken by Bank to escalate the fraud to the respective
 Departments authorities to bring into light the fraud committed by the officials
 of APMSS and MEPMA officials, to distance bank , from the fraud committed
 by Shri K Koteswara Rao and his collusive partners. (xiv) Shri K Koteswara Rao in his reply to memorandum calling for explanation for
 Point No 2 Quote: In view of the reasons cited in point No 1, we have not
 insisted for NOCs. Each group has maintained Rs 50,000/= in their SHG SB
 Account prior to sanction of loan. However, the loan was considered to
 individual groups based on their activity. Unquote. Provide the number of SHG
 Accounts in which Rs 50,000/= was deposited and maintained out of the 250 Page 5 of 11 SHG accounts financed by Mr. K Koteswara Rao to find out the actual number
 of fraudulent accounts. Maintaining Rs 50,000/= in each SHG account
 indicates that these amount is not savings of the groups and no entitlement of
 the SHG loan quantum amount. (xv) Shri K Koteswara Rao after reporting as head of CPC Guntur continued his
 irregular lending and ensured sanction of several loans at Guntur Branch and
 reported to other branches. Please provide the information of irregular lending
 at Guntur Branch (Number of accounts and aggregate sanction limits) at the
 instance of Mr. K Koteswara Rao. (xvi) Provide the actual existence of the unit Gouthami Enterprises (sister concern of
 M/s Sri Sahiti Spinning Mills Ltd), which was sanctioned a limit of Rs 50 lakhs
 and an accommodative finance
(xvii) Provide the details of netting of creditors while arriving at the drawing power
 in M/s Sahithi Spinning Mills Ltd.,
(xviii) GO MS No 62 dated 30-05-2013 Page NO 7 under the head Flow of Funds
 para No 8 Quote The APMSS will place the list of all Groups eligible for
 capital infusion along with the details of its members on the website of SERP
 and MEPMA. The MSS will ensure that the Bank account number of the group,
 IFSC, MICR is validated and kept in the data base of the SERP/MEPMA. The
 SHGs identified for revitalization will receive capital infusion after six month
 period upon demonstration of group dynamism and economic vibrancy.
 Unquote. One of the charges leveled against Mr. K Koteswara Rao was
 incorporation of Mrs. Sarala Cell number in SB accounts and SHG Group
 Accounts. In view of the above fact: 2. Succinctly facts of the case are that the appellant filed an application dated
14.01.2019 under the Right to Information Act, 2005 (RTI Act ) before the Central
Public Information Officer (CPIO), Bank of India, Mumbai, seeking aforesaid
information. The CPIO vide letter dated 25.01.2019 replied to the appellant. Dissatisfied
with the same, the appellant filed first appeal dated 04.03.2019. The First Appellate
Authority (FAA) vide order dated 08.04.2019 disposed of the first appeal. Aggrieved by
the same, the appellant filed a second appeal dated 07.07.2019 before the Commission
which is under consideration. 3. The appellant has filed the instant appeal dated 07.07.2019 inter alia on the
grounds that reply given by the CPIO was not satisfactory. The appellant requested the
Commission to direct the CPIO to provide complete information and take necessary
action as per Section 20 (1) of the RTI Act. 4. The CPIO replied vide letter dated 25.01.2019 that the appellant used to raise
several issues from the replies given and uses them as basis for further RTI applications
and sought related documents without any reasons and logic. He further stated that the
appellant had again sought more or less similar information hence they expressed their
inability to provide the information. The CPIO also relied on the observations made by
the Commission in File No. CIC/AD/A/2013/001326-SA, CIC/SG/C/2011/000760,
CIC/SM/A/2011/00926/SG etc. The FAA vide order dated 08.04.2019 agreed with the
views taken by the CPIO. 5. The appellant and on behalf of the respondent Shri N. Jejeswara Rao, CPIO & Shri
Venkata Kaleshwar Rao, Chief Manager (Law), Bank of India, Vishakhapatnam attended
the hearing through video conference. 5.1. The appellant inter alia submitted that information sought was not provided by the
respondent till the date of hearing. He further submitted that he was dealt with
departmentally and subsequently dismissed from the service of the bank. He stated that
complete information/documents were not provided by the bank hence he could not
defend the case properly. 5.2. The respondent while defending their case inter alia submitted that the appellant
filed RTI application on more than 20 points wherein he had sought the information
relating to SHG account and the account of M/s Hari Hara Cold Storage of Chenchupeta
Branch presently falling under Vijayawada Zone. They further submitted that the
appellant sought supplementary information based on the CPIO reply vide letter ref No.
APZO/CPIO/2O18-19/49 dated 14.11.2018 to his RTI request No
BKOIN/R/2O18/51037 dated 15.10.2018 for lodging complaint with State investigating
authority. They stated that the appellant had filed multiple RTI applications/requests
before several authorities of the bank on the same subject matter and the then CPIO had
replied all his RTI queries within the stipulated time. They stated that as on the date of
RTI application in question, the appellant herein sought more or less similar information
from the respondent bank by submission of 30 RTI applications and the same were
replied by the then CPIO of Visakhapatnam Zone in terms of the provisions of the Right Page 8 of 11 to Information Act . They further submitted that the then CPIO had informed the
appellant in the reply that no public interest was involved and RTI applications were
repetitive on similar subject, hence his RTI request was rejected. The respondent
informed that the applicant was an ex-employee of the respondent Bank who was
dismissed from service for the misconduct committed by him during his tenure from
25.07.2011 to 11.06.2014 as Business Development Manager of bank at Guntur center,
Andhra Pradesh Zone. During the appellant's tenure, he had dealt with account of M/s
Sri Hari Hara Cold Storage and he had acted in manner grossly inimical to the interest of
bank. However, the appellant's punishment was subsequently modified to compulsory
retirement from service. Furthermore, they stated that based on the compulsory
retirement as per the rules, the RTI appellant Mr. V V Subba Rao was awarded with
terminal benefits and "two third" pension. The appellant had accepted the order as well
as the terminal benefits as per the review order dated 30.12.2017 and had not preferred
any appeal or exercised any other legal remedy. It was contended that the appellant after
accepting the terminal benefits and without filing any appeal or exercising other
remedies available to him, had filed 30 RTI applications containing multiple queries
relating to several accounts including the account of M/s Sri Hari Hara Cold Storage,
different offices and officials of the respondent Bank resulting into diversion of
unproductive work resources and loss of precious time of Bank. Details of list of the
applications and appeals filed were placed on record. 5.3. The respondent further submitted that the information sought by the appellant was
more in the form of allegations against the bank which could not fall within the
definition of "information" as defined under section 2 (f) of the RTI Act. It was
submitted that all the above RTI applications were of identical or similar in nature. They
informed that these RTI applications were on same issues, with slightly altered
words/requests pertaining to the account of M/s Sri Hari Hara cord Storage and also
sought irrelevant information which is not at all involved any public interest. The queries
of the RTI request were more like of cross-examination and full of irrelevant, false and
baseless allegations. In addition to the above, the respondent stated that information
sought was not available in the manner it was sought and disclosure of which would Page 9 of 11 disproportionately divert the Bank's useful resources as per section 7(9) of the RTI Act.
Further, they stated that information sought was related to third party, held by the bank in
fiduciary capacity and it was also related to commercial confidence of the bank,
disclosure of which had no relationship to any public activity or interest. Accordingly,
they claimed exemptions under section 8 (1) (d) , (e) & (j) of the RTI Act . 6. The Commission after adverting to the facts and circumstances of the case, hearing
both the parties and perusal of records, observed that the appellant sought information on
more than 20 points regarding several accounts including the account of M/s Hari Hara
Cold Storage and other related information. Perusal of the record reveals that the
appellant had filed multiple RTI applications seeking similar information on the same
subject matter which had already been replied. Moreover, most of the queries raised by
the appellant in his RTI application did not fall within the definition of "information" as
defined under section 2 (f) of the RTI Act. The respondent during the course of hearing
submitted that information sought by the appellant was voluminous in nature and the
same was not maintained in the ordinary course of business and compilation of the same
would have disproportionately diverted the Bank's resources and therefore claimed
exemption under section 7(9) of the RTI Act. Besides, they also claimed exemptions
under section 8 (1) (d) , (e) & (j) of the RTI Act . Perusal of the records further reveals
that the appellant was dealt with departmentally and dismissed from the service of the
bank. Subsequently, the appellant's punishment was modified to compulsory retirement
from service. It was also brought to the notice of the Commission that the appellant had
accepted the order as well as the terminal benefits as per the review order dated
30.12.2017 and had not preferred any appeal or exercised any other legal remedy. The
appellant during the course of hearing submitted that he was not provided the complete
documents so he could not defend the case properly. It may not be out of place to
mention that the procedures of disciplinary proceedings have adequate safeguards to
protect the interest of charged official and whenever disciplinary action is initiated, the
appellant was free to raise all those points in the departmental inquiry or was free to
challenge the same in the forum/court of competent jurisdiction. The Commission is of
the view that there is no infirmity in the reply given by the respondent and no public Page 10 of 11 purpose would be served in further prolonging the matter. Accordingly, the appeal is
dismissed. Copy of the decision be provided free of cost to the parties. Sd/-