SURESH KUMAR KAIT, J 1. The present appeal is preferred by the appellant-husband under Section 19 of the Family Courts Act, 1984 against the judgment dated
 09.01.2018 passed by the learned Family Court, Delhi in HMA
 No.61514/2016 whereby his petition under Section 13(1) (ia) of the Hindu
 Marriage Act, 1955 (hereinafter referred to as „HMA‟) was dismissed. 2. The brief facts as narrated by the appellant in the present appeal are
 that the parties met each other through the sister of the respondent who was
 his classmate. The respondent was attracted towards appellant and proposed
 him to get married with her, however, since elder sisters of appellant were MAT.APP.(F.C.) 120/2018 Page 1 of 23 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ROHIT KUMAR Signing Date:22.02.2024 16:53 unmarried, the appellant held back and did not allow the relationship to
 develop, however, the respondent was ready to abandon her family and even
 threatened appellant of suicide. According to appellant, the respondent,
 between the years 1985 to 1990, regularly wrote letters to him and even
 visited him at Delhi along with her father. The appellant has claimed that he
 had completely denied the state of affairs and told the respondent that he
 was not interested in the marriage, however, due to his long standing
 relationship with respondent‟s family as a consequence of his friendship
 with the respondent‟s sister, the parties got married on 19.09.1990 in Arya
 Samaj Mandir, Patna, Bihar. 3. The respondent averred that his family was not interested in this
 marriage, however, a public wedding ceremony on 28.09.1990 at the
 Constitutional Club, Rafi Marg, New Delhi was arranged by them. A child
 was born out of this wedlock on 06.09.1991. 4. According to appellant, respondent, who is a well-educated woman
 with professional experience, demonstrated resilience by vocalizing her
 wants and desires and advocating for their fulfilment. On 15.05.1991,
 respondent/wife and one distinguished and respected citizen of Bihar, a
 Senior Legislator and former Minister, got into a quarrel during the
 appellant/husband's birthday celebration. As a result, respondent/wife started
 hurling insults and threw crockery. Also, during Teej celebrations in August,
 1991, the respondent flung her wedding ring and mangalsutra at the
 appellant/husband. In another incident, she threw a remote at the television,
 shattering the screen. 5. In the year 2000, the respondent‟s uncle and aunt visited from UK MAT.APP.(F.C.) 120/2018 Page 2 of 23 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ROHIT KUMAR Signing Date:22.02.2024 16:53 who offered to give them a job and a place to stay if the parties agreed to
 migrate to UK. The appellant flatly refused to this proposal, however,
 respondent was extremely keen and in order to pressurise the appellant to
 change his decision, she left the matrimonial home in April, 2000 with their
 minor son. The appellant further alleged that the respondent returned to
 matrimonial home only after he assured that he would seek posting or
 transfer in UK to ascertain whether they can settle or not. 6. The appellant claims to have applied for a posting in London in
 August/September, 2002 and was given four-year work permit from the
 Office of the British High Commission. The respondent also applied for
 two-year study leave and the parties shifted to UK in September, 2002. The
 appellant alleged that the respondent was keen to permanently settle,
 therefore, she started exploring avenues for obtaining permanent
 residency/immigration in UK by improving her English, legal advice from
 an NGO and taking up school job so as to qualify for permanent residency. 7. Realizing that her income might prevent her from being eligible for
 immigration or permanent citizenship, she sought legal help from
 SANGAM, an NGO, on January 2, 2003, with questions pertaining to: - 8. After moving to London, the respondent looked for and got a full- time job, which infuriated the appellant since she neglected to get the
 necessary prior approval from the Government of India and failed to take
 their little son's epilepsy needs into consideration. However, respondent was
 adamant and appellant eventually gave into her wishes. 9. With the exception of the unsupported claims made by the
 respondent, the couple lived a peaceful life until 27.07.2004, when the
 domestic abuse event was documented after their marriage. 10. On 27.07.2004, the mother of the appellant-husband came to visit the
 family. On that day, the appellant/husband and respondent/wife entertained
 some guests at their home, and after the guests left, they had to chastise their
 young son for acting inappropriately in front of the guests. Due to the
 aforementioned issue, an argument between the respondent-wife and
 appellant-husband occurred, prompting the police to be called and appellant
 was arrested but released by police officials after some time. 11. The respondent thereafter, deserted the appellant and their son and left
 for CARDIFF. Thereafter, she filed an assault case against the appellant in
 Barnet County Court, U.K. and also obtained a Restraint and Residency
 Order against the appellant precluding contact with the respondent and their
 minor child or seeking of any information regarding their whereabouts. 12. However, the learned Metropolitan Magistrate, Hendon Magistrate
 Court, U.K. dismissed all the charges against the appellant on 15.09.2004.
 Thereafter, the appellant filed a petition seeking custody of his minor son in
 August, 2004 and also an application seeking visitation right of his son on
 his birthday on 06.09.2004. His application for visitation rights was MAT.APP.(F.C.) 120/2018 Page 4 of 23 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ROHIT KUMAR Signing Date:22.02.2024 16:53 dismissed on the basis of a letter written by the minor son, which according
 to the appellant was not written in the presence of any CAFCASS officer of
 any other Judge. 13. The respondent‟s study leave expired on 05.04.2004 and in August,
 2005, she gave a statement before the Barnet County Court that she would
 leave UK as soon as the case is disposed of. The Barnet County Court
 disposed of the custody petition on 22.09.2005 and also the application filed
 by the appellant seeking psychiatric evaluation of their child on the
 undertaking of the respondent that she would litigate the case in India. 14. The appellant claimed to have lost his father on 12.12.2006 and sent
 money through his friend to the respondent to buy ticket for herself and her
 son to attend the funeral. However, she did not come. Thereafter, the
 appellant permanently left UK and being the only son, he returned to India
 to take care of his aging mother, in the absence of his father. However, the
 respondent continued to live in UK as illegal immigrant till November, 2007
 and thereafter, she and their son were deported to India by the UK
 authorities. 15. The respondent filed an application under Section 24A of the Hindu
 Marriage Act, 1955 before the learned Tis Hazari Court, Delhi, however, the
 said application was dismissed with direction to both the parties to maintain
 their son equally till he attains the age of eighteen years. According to
 appellant even though their son attained majority on 06.09.2011, however,
 he continued to give Rs.5,000 per month as pocket money to his son. The
 respondent-wife thereafter, filed petition seeking maintenance under Section
 125 Cr.P.C. in favour of major son of the parties wherein a settlement was MAT.APP.(F.C.) 120/2018 Page 5 of 23 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ROHIT KUMAR Signing Date:22.02.2024 16:53 arrived at and respondent was paid Rs.14.30 lakhs towards the maintenance
 of the major son of the parties. 16. In the year 2018, the appellant filed a petition under Section 13 (1)
 (ia) of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 wherein he asserted cruelty at the
 hands of the respondent-wife. 17. During the course of hearing in the present appeal, in support of
 appellant‟s claims, learned counsel placed reliance upon decisions in
 Vishwanath Agarwal Vs. Sarla Vishwanath Agarwal (2012) 7 SCC 288; Samar Ghosh Vs. Jaya Ghosh (2007) 4 SCC 511; N.G. Dastane Vs. S.
 Dastane ( 1975) 2 SCC 326 and A. Jayachandra Vs. Aneel Kaur (2005)2
 SCC 2022. 18. In the said petition, the respondent-wife by filing her written
 statement, took the preliminary objection that she was abused, infiltrated
 and harassed by the appellant, her mother and his sister, for bringing
 insufficient dowry. 19. Respondent alleged that at the time of marriage of the parties, both
 were minor and even then, appellant‟s father, who was an active politician
 and Member of Parliament, committed a crime by arranging marriage of the
 parties. The respondent alleged that it was the appellant who was keen to
 marry her and had forced her to marry him in Arya Samaj Mandir, without
 informing anyone. 20. The respondent denied that she ever visited parents of the appellant in
 Delhi, however, stated that the appellant who was working in State Bank of
 Bikaner and Jaipur, had got his job transferred from New Delhi to Jaipur, MAT.APP.(F.C.) 120/2018 Page 6 of 23 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ROHIT KUMAR Signing Date:22.02.2024 16:53 Rajasthan so that he could force the respondent to marry him. The
 respondent also denied that she ever threatened the appellant of committing
 suicide if he did not marry her, instead alleged that the appellant always
 emotionally blackmailed her. The respondent alleged that the story put forth
 by the appellant was false, fabricated and misrepresented. 21. The respondent further alleged that after her marriage with the
 appellant, the respondent went home and within a few hours, the father of
 the appellant threatened that he would publish the photographs of the
 marriage so that her sister would never get married. By organizing a
 wedding reception, the appellant and his parents had actually prepared a
 drama in front of public for acceptance of their marriage. The respondent
 denied having made any contact with the resources of appellant‟s father in
 order to procure a job in Delhi. The respondent claimed to have got a job in
 the year 1991 and she was working as Assistant Director in Nehru Yuva
 Kendra Sangathan, Delhi which is an autonomous body of Ministry of
 Youth Affairs and Sports and she obtained this job because of her
 qualifications and after qualifying the requisite exam and not because of
 political contacts of appellant‟s father. 22. The respondent averred that her first posting was in Rajasthan. The
 respondent-wife pointed out contradictions in the petition filed by the
 appellant before the learned trial Court by stating that on one hand the
 appellant had alleged that their marriage was solemnized on 28.09.1990 at
 Delhi and, therefore, the respondent was enjoying high life in Delhi being
 daughter-in-law of sitting Member of Parliament, on the other hand, he had
 claimed that once the session of Parliament came to an end, the respondent MAT.APP.(F.C.) 120/2018 Page 7 of 23 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ROHIT KUMAR Signing Date:22.02.2024 16:53 reluctantly came to Patna with her parents. The respondent claimed that the
 allegation of the appellant that respondent was enjoying high life of Delhi
 was wrong and malicious and was meant to defame her. 23. The respondent also alleged that appellant‟s mother was extremely
 arrogant and headstrong being the wife of a Member of Parliament and she
 used to control the house and fight with the respondent on one pretext or the
 other. On one occasion, she threw plate full of fruits and asked the
 respondent to clean it. The respondent denied that she never threw her
 marriage ring and mangalsutra on the face of the appellant but it was her
 mother-in-law who took the marriage ring and mangalsutra from her in the
 name of keeping them in locker. 24. The respondent with regard to the allegation of the appellant that she
 was in the habit of leaving the matrimonial home along with the child,
 asserted that it had happened only on two occasions, i.e. once it was school
 holidays and she had decided to visit her family and secondly, when
 appellant had gone to her home town at Patna, Bihar. 25. The respondent blatantly denied that she was ever interested in
 settling in UK. It was not the respondent and minor son who had forced the
 appellant to get a foreign posting but the appellant himself was keen to shift
 to UK. 26. The respondent averred that it was she who had been managing the
 home affairs and taking care of all financial responsibilities for herself and
 also for son of the parties. 27. The respondent further averred that the appellant was earning salary
 of Rs.22,000/- per month out of which a huge portion was deducted towards MAT.APP.(F.C.) 120/2018 Page 8 of 23 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ROHIT KUMAR Signing Date:22.02.2024 16:53 outstanding loan and he was left with a meagre amount of Rs.8,000/- per
 month in his hand, and so, the appellant cannot not be heard to say that he
 was managing the financial affairs of family. The respondent alleged that the
 appellant had a lavish lifestyle and whatever money he had in his hand, he
 used to spend on himself and was irresponsible towards her requirements
 and that of their son. 28. The respondent alleged that it was the appellant who sought transfer
 from his bank to a Branch in UK Bank as he was keen to settle over there.
 The respondent also alleged that she tolerated physical and mental torture at
 the hands of appellant and his mother but never lodged a complaint fearing
 no action would be taken on her complaint as appellant‟s father was an
 influential man. The appellant used to come back home late at nights and
 used to shout upon the respondent and their son. He never cared about the
 study of their son. Even the grand-parents of their child did not love him and
 whatever gifts their son received on his birthday, were passed on to the
 children of appellant‟s sister. 29. With regard to the unfortunate incident of 28.07.2004, the respondent
 averred that in the evening of 27.07.2004, a few guests had come to their
 home and their son was playing in the garden when appellant‟s mother, i.e.
 child‟s grand-mother, started shouting and screaming and became angry on
 the child. The respondent did not like it, however, the appellant intervened
 and hysterically scolded the child and hit the respondent and dragged her
 into the bedroom. The respondent claimed that the appellant twisted his arm
 at least 2-3 times, kicked her with his legs on her feet, pulled her hair and MAT.APP.(F.C.) 120/2018 Page 9 of 23 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ROHIT KUMAR Signing Date:22.02.2024 16:53 pushed her on the floor and upon seeing this, the child of the parties called
 the police and appellant was detained in Police Station. 30. The respondent averred that the appellant belonged to a high profile
 family and so whenever he beat her in India, her complaints were never got
 registered by the police in India, however, in UK prompt action was taken. 31. The respondent denied the allegations that she ever used her minor
 child as a pawn in her scheme of things but it was the appellant‟s aggressive,
 abusive and cruel temperament towards the child and in such circumstances,
 the learned Cardiff Family Court, U.K. had given a restraint order in favour
 of the respondent. The respondent averred before the learned Family Court
 that it was the appellant who had misbehaved with her and because he was
 arrested in London, he was hurt and wanted to take revenge from the
 respondent. She prayed for permanent alimony and maintenance for herself
 and for her minor child and also prayed for return of her jewellery and
 educational certificates back to her. 32. The learned Family Court on the pleading of the parties framed the
 following Issues: - 33. In support of his case, the appellant examined himself as PW-1 and
 got examined his childhood friend and colleague as Kamaljeet Khanna as
 PW-2; Shri Anand Kumar, Personal Secretary of his late father as PW-3.
 The respondent-wife got herself examined as RW-1 and one of her
 colleagues, Ms. Anita Bhartiya as RW-2. In addition, she got examined
 Mr.Sanjay Kumar Srivastava, her brother as RW-4 and her sister-in-law,
 Ms. Neeta Srivastava, as RW-5. The respondent had also filed affidavit of
 her sister Ms. Kamini Srivastava, Advocate in evidence, however, her sister
 was not examined. 34. Based upon the testimony of the witnesses recorded and the material
 on record, the learned trial court held that issue Nos.1 and 3 were decided
 against the appellant-husband and in favour of the respondent-wife. 35. Being aggrieved against the impugned judgment, present appeal has
 been filed by the appellant-husband. 36. The submissions advanced by learned counsel for the parties were
 heard at length and the impugned judgment, decisions relied upon and the
 other material placed has been carefully perused. 37. The learned Family Court with regard to the misbehaving allegations
 of appellant against the respondent of smashing TV, throwing away
 wedding ring or mangalsutra, had observed that these are little skirmish in
 the early part of settling into matrimonial relationship. The learned Family
 Court has observed that PW-2 & PW-3 were hearsay witnesses and also no
 questions were put to RW1 in her cross-examination in respect of her
 arrogant behaviour. The Family Court has also relied upon Letter dated
 06.10.1991 Mark-X written by the elder sister of the appellant to the MAT.APP.(F.C.) 120/2018 Page 11 of 23 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ROHIT KUMAR Signing Date:22.02.2024 16:53 respondent to observe that appellant also had blames to share. However, the
 Family Court has in very clear words stated that the misbehaviour of
 respondent with senior politician on appellant‟s birthday is very well
 supported by the testimony of PW-2 and PW-3. Further held that this was
 definitely not appreciable, and highly condemnable, and must have resulted
 in loss of face, pride and quite agonizing for the petitioner husband and his
 family members. However, thereafter the learned Family Court observed that
 appellant has miserably failed to lead any specific instances of cruelty on the
 part of his wife from the year 1992 till about the time of filing of the
 petition, to substantiate his claims that respondent was an arrogant,
 intemperate or abusive woman. 38. The learned Family Court also observed that the respondent wife has
 not elected to institute any civil or criminal proceedings which exhibits that
 she is not a vindictive person and not aggravating the marital discord and the
 larger picture is that the appellant-husband comes out as a person primarily
 responsible for destroying the sanctity of his marriage by perpetuating
 mental and physical cruelty upon the respondent wife. 39. The learned trial court further observed that from the photographs of
 the year 2003 when the parties with their child had gone for trip to Australia,
 Bangkok and Singapore; it cannot be said in the year 2005 that the appellant
 was under tremendous physical or psychological torture at the hands of his
 wife. The trial court further observed that immediately after the incident of
 28.07.2004, the appellant rushed to India and instituted the case in February,
 2005 ignoring the medical problem of the child and never tried for a patch
 up. The Court did take note of the photographs produced by the respondent MAT.APP.(F.C.) 120/2018 Page 12 of 23 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ROHIT KUMAR Signing Date:22.02.2024 16:53 to allege that appellant was in relationship with another woman and
 observed that those photographs were admitted by the appellant during his
 cross-examination on 30.11.2017 but held that there was no iota of
 allegation of adultery by the respondent against her husband, but it shows
 that he did not want to resume marital ties with the respondent and so, no
 mileage could be taken by them that respondent did not participate in the
 mediation proceedings or that she admitted during her cross-examination
 that she was unwilling to reside with appellant. With the afore-noted
 observations, the learned trial court held that appellant had not been able to
 establish cruelty committed upon him within the ambit of Section 13(1) (ia) of the Act and so the marriage cannot be dissolved. 40. Having gone through the chain of events of married life of the parties,
 this Court finds that the undisputed facts of the present case are that parties
 to the present appeal got married on 19.09.1990 in Arya Samaj Mandir,
 Patna, Bihar and appellant‟s family gave a reception on 28.09.1990 in
 honour of the parties. A son was born from this wedlock on 06.09.1991,
 who has been suffering from epilepsy since 2000-01. 41. It is trite to note that even though parties who married each other by
 choice and love, without even waiting for consent of their families, have by
 this petition raised counter allegations of chasing and persuading the other
 for marriage. Not only this, the parties shifted to UK, the appellant took
 official transfer-posting and the respondent took study leave from her
 Government job, to explore their livelihood in U.K. It is undisputed that
 appellant applied for a posting in London in August/September, 2002 and
 was given four-year work permit from the Office of the British High MAT.APP.(F.C.) 120/2018 Page 13 of 23 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ROHIT KUMAR Signing Date:22.02.2024 16:53 Commission and respondent had also applied for two-year study leave and
 the parties shifted to UK in September, 2002. However, both raised counter
 allegations of being forced to shift to UK on the asking of the other. But the
 fact remains that both sides had willingly chosen to explore a life in U.K.
 and had moved together. 42. Also, both sides have raised allegations of not respecting and ill-
 treating the other, thereby committing cruelty, since the day of their
 marriage. 43. What is cruelty, has been enunciated by the Hon‟ble Supreme Court
 in Savitri Pandey Vs. Prem Chandra Pandey (2002) 2 SCC 73 has recited
 "Cruelty" in married life in the following words:- 44. The Hon‟ble Supreme Court in Roopa Soni Vs. Kamalnarayan Soni 2023 SCC OnLine SC 1127 has observed "the word „cruelty
 under Section 13(1)(ia) of the Act of 1955 has got no fixed meaning, and
 therefore, gives a very wide discretion to the Court to apply it liberally and
 contextually. What is cruelty in one case may not be the same for another.
 As stated, it has to be applied from person to person while taking note of the
 attending circumstances." The Hon‟ble Supreme Court further held "on the
 question of burden in a petition for divorce, burden of proof lies on the
 petitioner. However, the degree of probability is not one beyond reasonable
 doubt, but of preponderance." 45. The respondent has alleged that she tolerated physical and mental
 torture at the hands of appellant and his mother but never lodged a
 complaint fearing no action would be taken on her complaint as appellant‟s
 father was an influential man. Even though respondent has asserted that
 appellant‟s father was an influential Member of Parliament but nothing had
 stopped her to recourse to law if any grievance persisted during the period
 she stayed in India. The learned Family Court has observed that by not filing
 a complaint she has asserted that she was willing to make the marriage
 work. In our considered opinion, raising a voice against alleged cruelty in
 any matrimonial relationship, does not in any way indicate that the MAT.APP.(F.C.) 120/2018 Page 15 of 23 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ROHIT KUMAR Signing Date:22.02.2024 16:53 complainant is not interested in continuing with the matrimonial bond or is
 not ready to adjust. What is important is, whether the allegations levelled are
 premised upon facts or concocted. 46. Pertinently, the letter dated 06.10.1991 Mark-X written by the elder
 sister of the appellant to the respondent, relied upon by the learned Family
 Court to observe that appellant also had blames to share, also shows that the
 elder sister of the appellant has played a good role in making married life of
 his brother and Bhabhi getting settled. Not only she had asked her brother to
 mend his ways but also told the respondent to be responsible. This makes
 manifestly clear that appellant‟s family had in no way, tried to disturb
 married life of the parties but made effort to settle them gracefully and so,
 the allegation of respondent that there were disputes since the day of their
 marriage due to interference of the family of the appellant, do not borne out
 from the record. 47. With regard to allegation of misbehaviour, on one hand the learned
 Family Court has discarded the testimony of PW-1 and PW-2 being hearsay,
 but has also in later part of the judgment criticized respondent‟s
 misbehaviour with Senior Politician on appellant‟s birthday. There is no
 doubt that there can be regular fights between the couple which are normal
 wear and tear of the married life, but certainly there is fine thin line which
 has to be taken care of so that parties not only respect each other socially but
 also do not misbehave with the near and dear ones of the spouses. 48. In the present case, PW-2 in his examination has stated that he was a
 witness to the unfortunate incident that occurred in the birthday party of
 appellant in the year 1990 when respondent had misbehaved with the Senior MAT.APP.(F.C.) 120/2018 Page 16 of 23 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ROHIT KUMAR Signing Date:22.02.2024 16:53 Politician, who was a very respected citizen of Patna and Ex-Industries
 Minister and record time MLA, who had enquired about wellbeing of her
 father, who was facing charges in fodder scam. This witness has stated that
 respondent had without any provocation, called names and threw plates and
 dishes and criticized every one.PW-2, a childhood friend and neighbour of
 appellant, stated that the appellant was very disturbed when he showed
 statement of respondent before the Court in UK alleging that his father was
 coming to UK to abduct her son and fraudulently obtained Restraint Order
 against appellant and his family, depriving them of meeting their son. The
 learned Family Court has though observed that the testimony of PW-2 and
 PW-3 have supported the allegation of appellant in respect of alleged
 incident but has erroneously held that no specific instance of respondent‟s
 misbehaviour has been narrated by the appellant and that it cannot be said
 that respondent committed cruelty upon the appellant. 49. The Supreme Court in the case of Ravi Kumar Vs. Julmidevi (2010)
 4 SCC 476 has categorically held that "reckless, false and defamatory
 allegations against the husband and family members would have an effect of
 lowering their reputation in the eyes of the society" and it amounts to
 „cruelty‟. Similar observations were made by the Coordinate Bench of this
 Court in the case of Rita Vs. Jai Solanki (2017) SCC OnLine Del 907. 45. Further, in the case of K. Srinivas Vs. K. Sunita (2014) SLT 126 the
 Hon'ble Supreme Court held that filing of the false complaint against the
 husband and his family members also constitutes mental cruelty for the
 purpose of Section 13 (1) (ia) of the Hindu Marriage Act. 46. In totality, the
 respondent, having completely failed in substantiating her allegations and MAT.APP.(F.C.) 120/2018 Page 17 of 23 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ROHIT KUMAR Signing Date:22.02.2024 16:53 has left no stone unturned to cause disgrace to the appellant and his family 50. The unfortunate incident of 28.07.2004 shook the foundation of the
 marriage between the parties. The brawl caused mental agony and anguish
 to the child of the parties, who called for police assistance. A perusal of
 copy of statement of Stacy Hinchuffe, Police Officer recorded on
 28.07.20004 shows that respondent raised allegations of physical and mental
 assault against the appellant, who was there and then arrested and detained
 in police custody. On the very next day i.e. 29.07.2004, the appellant was
 released on bail but the respondent, along with child of the parties, left the
 matrimonial home and shifted to Cardiff. She also preferred an assault case
 against the appellant on 29.07.2004 and obtained Restraint Order against the
 appellant, which precluded him to meet his child or to seek any information
 about them. The appellant preferred a Custody Petition on 27.08.2004 in
 U.K. but the petition was dismissed. However, thereafter, the Metropolitan
 Magistrate, Hendon Magistrate Court, U.K. dismissed all the charges against
 the appellant on 15.09.2004. 51. At this juncture, this Court is taking note of the contents of Order
 dated 22.09.2005 passed by the learned Court at U.K. which heavily took
 upon the appellant for his behaviour towards the respondent during his
 cross-examination. This Court cannot lose sight of the fact that just prior to
 the relevant time, the appellant had been under arrest in U.K. and was also
 filled with anguish and hurt. In such circumstances, his focus was probably
 to disprove respondent‟s allegations before the Court instead of focusing on
 child‟s custody. 52. It is not in dispute that the respondent before the Court at U.K., stated MAT.APP.(F.C.) 120/2018 Page 18 of 23 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ROHIT KUMAR Signing Date:22.02.2024 16:53 that she wanted to follow up legal recourse in India but even thereafter,
 chose to stay in U.K. as illegal immigrant and was deported to India only in
 2007. During all this period, the respondent has enjoyed the Restraint Order
 against appellant, disallowing him to meet his child and enjoy his
 fatherhood. To obtain a Restraint Order against the father of the appellant,
 who had come to meet the child, on the false allegations and ground of his
 ill intention to abduct the child, is clearly a mental cruelty committed upon
 the appellant and his family. 53. When the legal battle between the parties was pending in court at UK,
 the appellant chose to file the petition seeking divorce under the provisions
 of Section 13 (ia) of the Act alleging cruelty at the hand of the respondent.
 But even after her return from U.K. in the year 2007, the respondent did not
 file petition under Section 9 of the Act seeking restitution of Conjugal
 Rights. In her cross-examination dated 21.08.2010, the respondent has stated
 "I donot want to live my husband now". She also acceded in her cross-
 examination that she has not spoken with her husband for the last six years
 after she walked away from her matrimonial home in July, 2004 and also
 never written any e-mail or SMS. In the reconciliation proceedings by the
 learned Family Court, the respondent categorically stated that "we cannot
 stay together". This amply shows that the respondent has deliberately and
 willing chosen to live away from appellant-husband. 54. During the course of hearing, the appellant placed reliance upon decision in Vishwanath Agarwal (Supra). In the said case, the Hon‟ble
 Supreme Court in an appeal preferred by the husband against the decisions
 of the trial Court and the High Court, whereby his petition under Section 13 MAT.APP.(F.C.) 120/2018 Page 19 of 23 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ROHIT KUMAR Signing Date:22.02.2024 16:53 i(ia) of the Act, was dismissed, had allowed the Appeal while observing that
 the wife had initiated proceedings under Section 498 A IPC against the
 husband and his family, who were acquitted by the court; had published in
 the newspaper that her husband was a womanizer and a man of poor
 character, which had demolished his personal and public life and that the
 witnesses examined by the husband could not be called interested witnesses.
 In the present case, even though there is no complaint by the respondent
 alleging dowry demand while she was living with appellant in India,
 however, in the divorce proceedings she has raised allegations of dowry
 demand but has failed to establish the same. 55. In Samar Ghosh (Supra), the wife was already a divorcee, who had
 custody of her daughter from first marriage. When the husband from first
 marriage filed Appeal against the divorce awarded by the trial court, she
 persuaded the appellant therein to marry her under the Special Marriage Act .
 The appellant had alleged that soon after the marriage, the respondent asked
 the appellant not to interfere with her career. She had also unilaterally
 declared her decision not to give birth to a child for two years and the
 appellant should not be inquisitive about her child and he should try to keep
 himself aloof from her as far as possible. According to the appellant, there
 was imposition of rationing in emotions in the arena of love, affection,
 future planning and normal human relations; however, he tried hard to
 reconcile himself to the situation created by the respondent-wife.
 Appellant‟s Appeal was allowed by the learned trial court, which was
 reversed by the High Court and the husband thus reached the Hon‟ble
 Supreme Court. The Supreme Court held that "the concept of mental cruelty MAT.APP.(F.C.) 120/2018 Page 20 of 23 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ROHIT KUMAR Signing Date:22.02.2024 16:53 cannot remain static; it is bound to change with the passage of time, impact
 of modern culture through print and electronic media and value system etc.
 etc. What may be mental cruelty now may not remain a mental cruelty after
 a passage of time or vice versa. There can never be any strait-jacket
 formula or fixed parameters for determining mental cruelty in matrimonial
 matters. The prudent and appropriate way to adjudicate the case would be
 to evaluate it on its peculiar facts and circumstances while taking
 aforementioned factors in consideration." The Hon‟ble Supreme Court, in
 the facts of the said case that parties had been living separately, allowed the
 appeal in the year 2007 holding that parties were living separately since
 1990 and there was a complete breakdown of marriage. 56. In N.G. Dastane (Supra), the husband had filed a petition seeking
 divorce from his wife under sec. 12 (1)(c) of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955,
 alleging that the respondent had been treated at a Mental Hospital for
 schizophrenia, and that the respondent‟s father had fraudulently made him
 believe the fit state of mind of the respondent. Additionally, the husband
 filed for Divorce under sec. 13(1)(iii) and for Judicial separation under sec.
 10(1)(b) on the ground that the respondent treated him cruelty and his life‟s
 safety was at risk. In the facts of the said case, the Hon‟ble Supreme Court
 held that when a spouse makes a complaint of cruelty, the court should not
 search for standard of life. Further held that "when a spouse makes
 complaint about the treatment of cruelty by the partner in life or relations,
 the court should not search for standard in life. We the judges and lawyers,
 therefore, should not import our own notions of life. We may not go in
 parallel with them. There may be a generation gap between us and the MAT.APP.(F.C.) 120/2018 Page 21 of 23 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ROHIT KUMAR Signing Date:22.02.2024 16:53 parties. It would be better if we keep aside our customs and manners. It
 would be also better if we less depend upon precedents." 57. It is worthy to note that in the impugned judgment, it has been
 observed that the respondent, at the fag-end of the trial had sought
 permission of the Court to lead additional evidence to bring on record
 certain photographs of the appellant to show that appellant wanted to leave
 India and to settle himself in UK with another woman. However, during trial
 respondent-wife did not raise any objection that appellant was living in
 adultery. 58. The learned Family Court after going through the photographs
 observed that appellant seemed friendly and intimate to another lady, which
 shows his proximity with other woman out of his marriage. However, since
 those photographs were not contested by the wife in evidence, without going
 into this aspect, we have deliberated upon the material relied upon by the
 learned Family Court in the impugned judgment. Even if it is assumed that
 appellant is in relationship with another woman, it cannot be ignored that
 parties to the present Appeal have been living separately since the year 2004
 and respondent has not made any effort to reconcile the dispute or shown
 any willingness to resume her matrimonial relationship. 59. In light of the above discussion, this Court finds that even though the
 incidents narrated by the appellant do not implicate the respondent if viewed
 in isolation, but altogether demonstrate her non adjusting attitude, due to
 which appellant had to suffer public humiliation and thereby, suffered
 mental cruelty. The testimony of PW-2 and PW-3 strengthens the
 allegations of appellant and this Court finds that the discord between the MAT.APP.(F.C.) 120/2018 Page 22 of 23 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ROHIT KUMAR Signing Date:22.02.2024 16:53 parties was not a mere normal wear and tear of marriage but the acts of
 cruelty, which discouraged the appellant to continue his matrimonial
 relationship with the respondent. 60. We, therefore, conclude that the appellant has been subjected to
 cruelty during his matrimonial life and therefore, set aside the impugned
 judgment and grant divorce to the appellant on the ground of cruelty under Section 13(1)(ia) of Hindu Marriage Act, 1955. 61. The appeal is allowed. Decree sheet be prepared accordingly. 62. Pending application is disposed of as infructuous. (SURESH KUMAR KAIT)
 JUDGE

 (NEENA BANSAL KRISHNA)
 JUDGE
 FEBRUARY 22, 2024
 r MAT.APP.(F.C.) 120/2018 Page 23 of 23 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ROHIT KUMAR Signing Date:22.02.2024 16:53