M.B. Shah, J. (President)
 

I. In the aforesaid complaint and revision petition, the questions, which require consideration are: At this stage itself, it needs to be noted that, on the one hand, the rapid expansion of banking facilities and of access to credit facilities and on the other hand, it has led, as a result of the aggressive marketing practices adopted, especially, by the banks, which induce the unsuspecting customers to take loans, in one form or the other, for purchasing consumer goods and durables even when they are not quite needed. This makes these consumers debtors forever. Such indebtedness results in constant tension to repay the loans and the "EMIs" at times well beyond the borrowers'/debtors' repaying capacity. The ill effects of unaffordable EMIs are now being highlighted in the print and other media almost daily. In the case of motor vehicle loans, for example, the debtor/borrower is under constant tension that if he fails to pay one or two instalments, he would receive threats from the so-called recovery agents of the banks. The RBI has permitted the banks to appoint recovery agents on contract, without perhaps fully appreciating the implications that these recovery agents are usually musclemen, employing whom increases nothing but goondaism. (2)(a) Whether banks can charge the credit card users interest at rates ranging from 36 per cent to 49 per cent per annum if there is any delay or default in payment within the time specified? (b) Whether interest at the above-stated rates amounts to charging usurious rates of interest? In our view, prima facie, charging of interest at rates ranging from 36 per cent to 49 per cent per annum is exorbitant and amounts to exploitation of the borrowers/debtors and is usurious. Oral Submissions
 

Whether the RBI can issue any directions? (a) Ms. Indu Malhotra, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the Complainants as amicus curiae, has submitted that charging the credit card holders interest at the rates of 36 per cent to 49 per cent per annum for their default in payment is, on the face of it, usurious. She has referred to various circulars issued by the RBI wherein it is acknowledged that the RBI has been receiving many complaints with regard to banks charging excessive rates of interest and that by these circulars the RBI has directed the banks not to charge such high rates of interest. She has further submitted that considering the prime lending rates fixed by various banks, it is the duty of the RBI to issue a circular directing that interest should not be charged at rates far beyond a reasonable limit. (b) As against this, Mr. Jaideep Gupta, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the RBI has submitted that the RBI has already directed the banks not to charge excessive rates of interest. He has, however, clarified that at present the policy of the RBI is not to directly regulate the rates of interest charged by the banks and, therefore, the RBI has left this matter, subject to the aforesaid advisory, to the Boards of Directors of the banks. Hence, the RBI cannot be directed to issue any further instruction as it is a discretionary power conferred under the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 . (c) Mr. Altaf Ahmed, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the Citibank (Opposite Party No. 4) has submitted that it is the function of the RBI to prescribe the maximum rate of interest by exercising its powers under Section 35A of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. If there is failure on the part of the RBI to do so, banks cannot be held liable. He has further submitted that if the RBI is satisfied that in public interest or in the interest of banking policy or to prevent the affairs of the banking companies being conducted in a manner detrimental to the interest of the depositors it is necessary to do so, it can issue such directions. If that is not done, the Citibank, Opposite Party No. 4 cannot be held responsible for charging allegedly excessive rate of interest. He has also submitted that the rate of interest on defaulted or partial payments of credit card dues is determined by taking into consideration various factors, including the risks of default, and, therefore, this Commission may not determine the issue, as to whether the interest at the rates of 36 per cent to 49 per cent per annum is excessive. It is his contention that as the RBI has prescribed no standards, the market forces would generate the standards for the rates of interest and that is the stand of the RBI. He has further submitted that the RBI is the monetary and banking policy watchdog, and hence it has to check whether the interest charged by the banks is excessive or not. If any standard is prescribed, then there would not be any difficulty in enforcing the same because the RBI, as a delegate of Parliament, can issue directions, which are like subordinate legislation. Written Submissions
 

In addition to the oral submissions, the RBI as well as some banks have furnished their exhaustive written submissions, which are as under: Written Submissions of the HSBC
 

(1) The Complainants have no locus standi to file this complaint. Complainants No. 1 and 2 are not voluntary consumer organizations registered under the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 . (2) By virtue of Section 21A of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, this complaint is not maintainable because the rates of interest charged by the banking companies cannot be subjected to scrutiny by the Courts. [Re: State Bank of Hyderabad v. Advath Sakru and Anr. ; Syndicate Bank 's case; Central Bank of India v. Ravindra and Ors. ]. (3) The Circulars issued by the RBI have the sanctity of being statutory circulars for all banking and non-banking companies. But the question whether a particular rate of interest is excessive or not depends or is to be determined on the basis of evidence and materials placed before the Court in that particular dispute. (4) The RBI, as the regulator and supervisor of the financial system of the country, has the authority to deal with interest rates fixed by credit card issuers. In the event a credit card issuer fails to comply with the requirements of the RBI, the same may be brought to the notice of the RBI for taking appropriate action. (5) But the deregulation by the regulator which holds the domain of the interest rate as a matter of economic policy clearly recognizes that the setting of interest rates is governed by an array of factors that have moving parts and an artificial ceiling on interest rates cannot be justified as charging of interest rate depends upon various factors. (6) HBSC has further referred to Circular DBOD. Dir. BC. 5/13.03.00/2007-08 dated 1th July, 2007, in particular paragraphs 2.4 and 2.4.1, and contended that the HSBC is complying with the aforesaid directions. (7) HSBC has also submitted A General Note on Pricing of Credit Cards to show how and to what extent interest is charged by the banks on credit cards. This is summarised below. General Note on Pricing of Credit Cards
 

Credit cards generally carry interest rate, which is quoted both on a monthly basis and on an annualized basis (Annual Interest Rate APR). Who and what gets an Interest Rate Billed? The interest due is calculated only on unpaid balances. A customer who pays in full is not charged any interest. A credit card customer who undertakes transactions on his credit in a month and pays the entire amount being the value of those transaction within the payment due date in the succeeding month, pays no interest and no late payment charges, and has between 18 and 52 days to make the payment. Determining factors for the setting of an interest rate
 

Banks seek to obtain a reasonable and fair return for the credit provided by them to credit card customers. The costs that a bank takes into account in providing such credit card are, briefly, the following: Written Submissions of the American Express Bank
 

(1) Under the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 , the Consumer Fora have no jurisdiction to determine the fixing of rates of interest on credit cards by the banks contrary to the directives of the RBI under the statutory provisions. (2) The Consumer Protection Act, 1986 does not provide for interference by the National Commission in the functioning of the regulator (RBI). (3) In any case, appropriate remedy for the consumers would be to approach the High Court under Article 226. (4) As long as the banks are functioning within the four corners of the statutory guidelines under the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 , there is no cause of action available to even assert a plea of unfair trade practice or any deficiency in service. (5) The credit card operations are in the nature of high risk unsecured lending and hence there is justification of a higher rate of interest. (6) It is incorrect to state that by virtue of the Credit Bureau the credit card operations have now become safe. In fact the credit history of customers is not easily identifiable or assessable thus the risk from non-performing assets is higher. The market in India is still at a developing stage and there are slim chances of recovery against defaulters in view of the legal complexities involved. Emerging markets like India also have a high cost of acquisition and high cost of servicing an account as compared to other mature markets. The Written Submissions of the Citibank, N.A. and the Standard Chartered Bank are on the same lines as those of the HSBC. Findings
 

I. Whether a complaint under the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 , alleging deficiency in service as contemplated under the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 , is maintainable against the RBI? (1) At the outset it is made clear that a complaint under the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 to curb unfair trade practice(s) adopted by the banks is maintainable. One of the objects and reasons of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 is, the right to be informed about the quality, quantity, potency, purity, standard and price of goods to protect the consumer against unfair trade practice. Similarly, Section 6(b) of this Act provides that functions of the Central Council shall be, inter alia, to promote and protect the rights of the consumers against unfair trade practice. Thereafter, Section 14(1)(f) , inter alia, empowers the Consumer Fora to direct traders or service providers to discontinue an unfair or restrictive trade practice or not to repeat them. Further, unfair trade practice is defined very widely under Section 2(1)(r) , which reads as under: Similarly, the word complaint as defined under Section 2(1)(c) reads as under: xxx xxx xxx
 

xxx xxx xxx
 

In this connection, the meaning of the word deficiency as defined in Section 2(1)(g) is also relevant: II. Whether interest at rates ranging from 36 per cent to 49 per cent per annum amounts to usurious rate of interest? (1) Article in the Financial Express. At this stage, we would quote a lead editorial published on 14th May, 2008 in the Financial Express wherein it has been stated as under: Hong Kong SAR, which is also considered a mature market. The Hong Kong SAR credit card market today operates on a fixed rate basis. Typical rates currently vary from 24 per cent to 32 per cent to 36 per cent to 40 per cent. Australia, which is a mature market
 

The Australian credit card market today operates on a fixed rate basis. Typical rates currently vary from 18 per cent to 24 per cent (Annualised Percentage Rate -APR). The Philippines, Indonesia, Mexico, all of which are emerging markets
 

The credit card market today operates on a fixed rate basis. Typical rates currently vary from 36 per cent to 50 per cent (APR). India, which is an emerging market
 

In India, the credit card market operates on a fixed rate basis. Typically, rates currently vary from 35 per cent to 42 per cent annualized (APR). India faces most of the same challenges as mentioned in the above emerging market scenario examples of the Philippines, Indonesia, and Mexico. In this background, the Respondent No. 2 in India has adopted a dynamic interest rate programme whereby its credit card customers are charged interest by it, in line with the risk profile, the repayment record, and vintage of the customer. For the first 12 months, customers are charged a fixed rate of interest. Subsequent thereto, the customer interest rate can either increase or reduce depending on the risk the Respondent No. 2 has experienced, and how long the customer has been a credit card customer of the Respondent No. 2. Accordingly, a customer may initially (illustratively) pay a rate of 5 per cent on balances if he opts for the minimum amount due payment or roll-overs otherwise, and in the event of defaults, the rate of interest may increase to 3.2 per cent p.m. (38.4 per cent per annum) over a period of time, and in the event of no defaults or subsequent regularization of defaults, the rate of interest may reduce. It would, therefore, be erroneous to assume that at all times, and all the time, the Respondent No. 2 charges, or can afford to charge, it customers a set rate of interest on credit card dues. Further, interest on credit card dues, and late payment charges, are levied only after a customer fails to pay the dues, or opts to pay only a certain amount of his dues, within the stipulated, interest free credit, period. Again based on the customers usage pattern, history of defaults (or otherwise) and the period of time for which he has been a credit card customer, the rate of interest applicable would vary. Thus a complaint customer stands on a far better footing than does a defaulter and also has the option, in any event, of availing of the interest free period by paying the entire amount due within the stipulated time frame. It would be further erroneous to assume that the rate of interest levied by the Respondent No. 2 is profit in the hands of the Respondent No. 2. at the expense of credit card customers. As illustrated above, the rate of interest is dependent upon several factors, including the cost of funds to the credit card issuer, and the risks to the credit card issuer and the costs associated with the business of credit cards and the stage at which a particular market is. The element of profit in the interest rate at present, on average, ranges between 2 per cent to 3 per cent, which, it is submitted, is by no stretch of imagination either usurious, excessive or constitutes an unfair trade practice. The Respondent No. 2 further submits that as a matter of fact, on an average, merely 30-35 per cent of its credit card customers pay into on dues. A brief illustrative snap-shot of the key components of the interest rate in relation to the credit card business, is provided below: An indicative synopsis of the elements of the supporting infrastructure and associated costs that the Respondent No. 2 as a prudential banking company bears with regard to its credit cards business, is as follows: The HSBC has also hinted at the application of lower rates of interest to compliant credit card users. It is, however, of interest to note that there is not even a whisper of any specific lower rates of interest charged from such compliant credit card users. Secondly, there is no mechanism available in the public domain of enforcing disclosure by any bank as to what its best-case scenario of the credit card interest rates is. Had there been an indication of such rates as well as of the broad outlines of any mechanism set up by a bank like the HSBC for determining such good behaviour and had these details been available in the public domain, some evaluation of the tortuously lengthy justifications given by the HSBC for the excessive rates of interest charged by the banks in most cases may have been feasible. In short, even from these detailed contentions, purporting to be discerning, global and fair, in the face of comparative immaturity of the Indian credit card market, there is no way of assuring ourselves (or, any independent observer) as to whether the debtor/borrower is, in the ultimate analysis, left at the mercy of the bank/money lenders. The important question, therefore, is: whether the consumer - customer (credit card borrower/debtor) requires any protection? (4) Further, till the credit card market becomes competitive and mature, banks cannot be permitted to exploit the situation. If this contention is accepted, then no law for protection against unfair trade practice is required. It is to be stated in this context that a free market economy is not an unregulated economy in fact, the freer the economy, the stronger is the institutional regulatory framework and prompter and more effective the enforcement of the independently administered regulatory practices by the regulator(s). De-regulation in the context of a so-called emerging market economy like India essentially means withdrawal of the State and its instrumentalities from directly prescribing the market regulations and also their enforcement by the same State and its instrumentalities. If the credit card market in India is not mature it is so because this market has so far been mostly created, driven and operated by the banks and for the banks with unsolicited and alluring offers of credit card facilities at the marketing front-end and undisclosed, fine-printed sets of one-sided conditions of credit at the back-end, couched in jargon and phraseology which even erudite scholars of the English language, law and finance would find rather obtuse and opaque. Whether Consumer debtors should be left at the mercy of the bank indulging in money lending business. From the aforesaid contentions, the question to be considered by this Commission is whether the debtor/borrower should be left at the mercy of the money lender/Bank? Or, Whether he requires any protection? Firstly, as noted above, even in any free economy/deregulated economy exploitation of the borrower/debtor is prohibited and is considered to be unfair trade practice. Free economy would not mean licence to exploit the borrowers/debtors by taking advantage of their basic needs for their livelihood. This cannot be permitted in any civilized society maybe a de-regulated free market economy. Even in a de-regulated free market economy, such as America, the maximum rate of interest charged on credit cards is 13 per cent per annum Is there any justification to exploit the situation in India? Secondly, the Benchmark Prime Lending Rate (BPLR) declared by various banks even in after de-regulation in India, varies from 10 per cent per annum to 15.50 per cent per annum In that set of circumstances, to contend that banks can charge interest at the rate of 36 per cent to 49 per cent cannot be justified. Thirdly, is there any justification in treating moneylenders differently from the banks or non-banking financial institutions, which are also doing the business of money lending? Prima facie, there cannot be much distinction between money lending business carried out by the banks or the non-banking financial institutions or the moneylenders. Undisputedly, in this country, various money lending Acts are in existence and moneylenders are prohibited from charging interest beyond a particular limit. Further, the learned Counsel for the parties were not in a position to point out that they are permitted by any money lending Act to charge interest beyond 20 per cent per annum
 

Fourthly, the Consumer Protection Act, 1986, inter alia, provides that the Consumer Fora would have jurisdiction to direct a service provider or trader not to indulge in unfair trade practice. The phrase, any unfair trade practice as used in Section 2(1)(r) is very wide to include such trade practices adopted by the banks. (6) Unfair trade practice as considered in the U.K. (a) To some extent, unfair trade practice has been codified in the U.K. This has been dealt with in Halsburys Laws of England, Vol.9(1), page 547, para 793, 4th Edition (Reissue), which reads as under: In determining whether a term satisfies the requirement of good faith, regard must be had in particular to the following matters: The 1994 regulations contain an indicative list of unfair terms. In so far, however, as it is in plain, intelligible language, no assessment is to be made of the fairness of any term which defines the main subject matter of the contract or concerns the adequacy of the price or remuneration, as against the goods or services sold or supplied. Thereafter, para. 794 of the said Volume deals with Indicative and illustrative list of terms which may be regarded as unfair are given. One of the unfair terms, as given in sub-para. (5), is: requiring any consumer who fails to fulfill his obligation to pay a disproportionately high sum in compensation. (b) It is to be stated that even in the free market, mature economy of the U.K., the Director General of Fair Trading considers every year what would be considered to be unfair trade practice and prepares a list for disseminating in such form and such manner, as he considers appropriate. Unfortunately, in our country, the regulator who is empowered under Section 35A of the Banking Regulation Act has left it to the absolute discretion of the banks. 7. Role of the RBI
 

For this purpose, it is pertinent to refer to Section 35A of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 which provides as under: The aforesaid provision has been interpreted by the Apex Court and the learned Counsel for the parties have relied upon the decision of the Apex Court in the case of Central Bank of India v. Ravindra and Ors. . For the purpose of deciding the question involved, we would refer to a few notes of caution sounded by the Apex Court in paragraphs 50 and 51, which are as under: And, thereafter, in para 55, it is held as under: In the following sub-paragraphs of para. 55, the Court has further observed: In our view, de-regulation is one thing but permitting the banks to charge excessive/usurious rates of interest would be quite different and it would be in clear violation of public policy. If the RBI is considered to be one of the watchdogs of finance and economy of the nation and the prevailing credit conditions are such as should invite its policy intervention, then, in our view, there is no justifiable ground for not controlling the banks which exploit the borrowers by charging exorbitant rates of interest varying from 36 per cent to 49 per cent per annum, in case of default by the credit card holders to pay amount before the due date. It is also to be stated that the RBI itself has issued various circulars that banks should not charge usurious rate of interest. However, it has failed to specify what would be termed by it as usurious rate of interest. The aforesaid stand of the RBI is required to be considered in the context of observation made in Lucknow Development Authority v. M.K. Gupta , one of the leading Judgments on Consumer Protection Act, 1986 . The Apex Court observed: An ordinary citizen or a common man is hardly equipped to match the might of the State or its instrumentalities. The Court further observed: In fact, to meet the long felt necessity of protecting the common man from such wrongs for which the remedy under ordinary law for various reasons has become illusory; the importance of the Act lies in promoting the welfare of the society which enable the consumer to participate directly in the market economy. Imagine, how aptly the above quoted observations of the Apex Court would apply to the present case, when the RBI refuses to define what is usurious/excessive rate of interest, despite various circulars issued by it directing the banks not to charge usurious rate of interest. III. (1) Considering the aforesaid aspects we have to find out whether charging of interest between 36 per cent per annum to 50 per cent per annum from the credit card holders is usurious/excessive rate of interest. For determining whether charging of interest rates from 36 per cent to 49 per cent is unfair trade practice, we have to also take into consideration the bargaining position of the parties, namely, banks and credit card holders. Credit card holders have no bargaining capacity except not to accept the facility of credit card. Secondly, for having credit card there is all throughout inducement by the banks by various marketing tactics. And, thirdly, if a condition requires a consumer to pay disproportionately high sum as compensation if he fails to fulfill his obligation, it would amount to unfair trade practice. (2) As stated by the HSBC in its written submission, in the United States of America and the United Kingdom the interest rate for the credit card ranges from 9.99 per cent to 17.99 per cent. However, it is contended that both the countries have a 50-year history of development and building of the credit card business and the markets are mature markets. In Australia also rate of interest varies from 18 per cent to 24 per cent. In Hong Kong SAR credit card interest varies from 24 per cent to 32 per cent. In the Philippines, Indonesia and Mexico, which are emerging markets, the credit card interest rate varies from 36 per cent to 50 per cent. (3) In our view, there is no justifiable ground for adopting the highest rate of interest prevailing in smaller economies. Further, there is no justifiable ground in not even attempting to follow what is prevailing in developed countries, namely, the rate of interest at 9.99 per cent to 17.99 (USA and UK) or 18 per cent to 24 per cent (in Australia). (4) For this purpose, we would refer to bank-wise lending rates for the advances for the quarter ending 2008, published on the website of the RBI: Conclusion
 

For the foregoing reasons, it is directed as under: The complaint is allowed and the revision petition is disposed of accordingly. There shall be no order as to costs. We would like to place on record our appreciation of the valuable assistance given to this Commission by Ms. Indu Malhotra, Senior Advocate, with Mr. Abhinav Agnihotri, Advocate as amicus curiae and also Mr. J. K. Mittal, Advocate, also an amicus curiae.