by learned Judicial Commissioner at Ranchi in A.B.P. No. 1987 of 2019,
 arising out of Lower Bazaar Police Station Case No. 411 of 2018, the
 petitioners have approached this Court, by filing this criminal miscellaneous
 petition, by invoking jurisdiction under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal
 Procedure (hereinafter referred to as 'the Code'). 2. The petitioners herein are accused of Lower Bazar Police Station Case
 No.411 of 2018 registered under Sections 406 and 420 of the Indian Penal
 Code. These accused persons approached the Court of learned Judicial
 Commissioner, Ranchi praying for grant of anticipatory bail. Learned Judicial
 Commissioner, in A.B.P. No. 1987 of 2019, heard the petitioners and granted
 the privilege of anticipatory bail to them. While granting anticipatory bail,
 learned Judicial Commissioner, Ranchi, directed the petitioners to pay a sum
 of Rs.1 lakh collectively, in favour of the informant/victim, as ad-interim victim
 compensation. The petitioners are aggrieved by this part of the order which
 directs them to pay the victim compensation. 3. The informant/victim was noticed in this criminal miscellaneous petition.
 The victim/informant has appeared through their lawyer. All the parties agreed 2 for final disposal of this case at this stage itself, thus they argued at length to
their satisfaction. SUBMISSION OF THE PETITIONERS 4. The counsel, appearing on behalf of the petitioners, submits that learned
Judicial Commissioner has committed a grave error in granting victim
compensation at the stage of grant of bail by directing the petitioners to pay
the said amount. He submits that at the stage of bail, these petitioners are
merely an accused. As there is a presumption of innocence in their favour, the
petitioners could not have been directed to compensate the informant/victim. It
is his submission that without giving a concrete finding that the petitioners are
guilty of the offence, no order could have been passed against them to
compensate the informant/victim. As per the petitioners this finding of guilt can
only be arrived at, after completion of the trial and not before that. Thus, he
contends that without holding the petitioners guilty (after conclusion of a proper
trial), the Court could not have ordered, nor could have directed the petitioners
to compensate the victim/informant. He submits that as per section 357A of
the Code the Court does not have any power to direct payment of victim
compensation. As per his submission, the Court is only a recommending
authority, and could not have fixed the quantum of compensation. According to
the petitioners, learned Judicial Commissioner has gone beyond the scope of
section 357A of the Code by fixing the quantum of compensation and also
directing the petitioners to pay the said amount. He further submits that the
State of Jharkhand has formulated a scheme for grant of victim compensation
and as per the said scheme, there is a schedule and only the victims, who
suffer the nature of injuries prescribed as per the schedule, is entitled to
receive victim compensation. According to him this case does not fall within
the categorised injuries or loss as mentioned in the schedules, thus, the
impugned order directing payment of compensation is bad. He further submits
that the Court could not have directed to make the payment of victim
compensation as a condition of bail also. He submits that it is well settled
principle that the Court, while granting bail, cannot impose any irrelevant
condition. He submits that directing the petitioner to pay the amount as
compensation, at the time of grant of bail, is an irrelevant condition, that too
without considering the effect of future acquittal. He further submits that
though in the impugned order it has been mentioned that the petitioners have
volunteered to compensate the victim/informant, but legally speaking this 3 submission could not have been taken into consideration while granting bail.
According to him if the impugned order is read in its entirety, it will be quite
clear that the said concession was not at all a ground to grant bail, rather the
anticipatory bail was granted on merits. He submits that when the Court, after
finding merits in the case, had granted the privilege of anticipatory bail to the
petitioners, then there was no occasion for the Court to direct the petitioners to
pay victim compensation. He further submits that a submission, which is
against the law, cannot be a basis for the Court to pass an order. The
petitioners in support of all their contentions, made hereinabove, relied upon
the following decisions: - SUBMISSIONS OF THE INFORMANT 5. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the informant submitted that
from the perusal of the impugned order dated 20.01.2020 in A.B.P. No.1987 of
2019, it would appear that the petitioners have voluntarily made a submission
before the Court of learned Judicial Commissioner, Ranchi that they are ready
to compensate the informant and, therefore, learned Court below has, as a 4 condition for grant of anticipatory bail, had directed the petitioners to deposit a
sum of Rs.1,00,000/- (Rupees One Lakh) collectively in favour of the
informant/ victim as ad-interim victim compensation without being prejudiced to
their defence. He submits that as prima facie, from the perusal of the First
Information Report, it appears that inspite of receipt of sale proceeds from the
informant, due to the illegal acts of the petitioners, the informant/victim had to
suffer monetary loss due to non-supply of the No Objection Certificate within
time. The informant, as a result of which, could not get the insurance claim,
due to which he could not even get the car repaired. The said illegal act of the
petitioners has caused further loss of income to the informant, which amounts
to cheating. So, as per him, the Court below has rightly directed the petitioners
to pay victim compensation to the informant/victim. SUBMISSIONS OF THE STATE 6. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the State submits that the Court
below has got jurisdiction to direct payment of victim compensation at any
stage of a criminal proceeding. He submits that even independent of Section
357A of the Code, the Court has power to grant any relief and pass any order
as a condition of bail. He submits that, in fact, the petitioners volunteered to
compensate the victim/informant, thus, now they cannot backtrack and
challenge the part of the order by which the Court has directed payment of
victim compensation. ISSUES FOR CONSIDERATION 7. After hearing the counsel for the parties I find that the main issues which
fall for consideration in this criminal miscellaneous petition are:- FACTS GIVING RISE TO THIS APPLICATION 8. Before entering the aforesaid questions, it is necessary to give brief
facts, which gave rise to this criminal miscellaneous petition, filed under Section 482 of the Code. a. The informant / OP No. 2 lodged a FIR being Lower Bazar
 Police Station Case No. 411 of 2018 dated 27.10.2018
 alleging therein that informant had purchased a vehicle (Car
 having registration no. WB-06G 1050) worth Rs.3,35,000/-
 from Kolkata Car Bazar and paid Rs.50,000/- in cash and
 rest balance amount of Rs.2,85,000/- has been paid
 through bank transfer. Further case of the informant is that
 it was agreed between the parties that entire paperwork
 including transfer of name and issuance of NOC will be
 completed and sent to the informant but even after lapse of
 9 months no documents related with the Car having
 registration No. WB-06G 1050 was received by the
 informant. In the meantime, said vehicle met with an
 accident and due to lack of documents including NOC,
 informant could not get benefit of insurance claim, thus he
 was cheated. b. The petitioners on coming to know about the institution of
 the FIR, approached the Learned Court of Judicial
 Commissioner, Ranchi by filing an application under section
 438 of the Code praying for grant of Anticipatory Bail, which
 was registered as A.B.P. No. 1987 of 2019. c. The application for grant of anticipatory bail was taken up
 on 20.01.2020 and the petitioners were granted the
 privilege of anticipatory bail on amongst other, an additional
 condition to the effect that they would pay a sum of
 Rs.1,00,000/- collectively to the informant as ad-interim
 victim compensation. d. It may be pertinent to mention herein that learned Judicial
 Commissioner, Ranchi while passing the above order has,
 interalia, recorded that the petitioners are ready to
 compensate the informant. e. Aggrieved by the part of the order, by which the Court
 directed these petitioners to pay victim compensation, the
 petitioners filed this criminal miscellaneous petition under Section 482 of the Code, challenging that part of the order. FINDINGS 9. By the impugned order, Court has directed the petitioners to pay ad-
interim victim compensation. Though the order does not specify that by
invoking which section of the Code, the payment was directed to be made, yet
from the expression "victim compensation" it can be understood that the same
was passed by invoking section 357A of the Code. 10. The Criminal Procedure Code 1973 did not provide much in favour of
the victims. Only in the year 2009, by virtue of an amendment, some rights
were conferred upon the victim of a crime. 11. Section 357A was inserted in the Code by the Code of Criminal
Procedure (Amendment) Act, 2008 (Act 5 of 2009), and this section came into
effect on and from 31.12.2009. The Statement of Objects and Reasons as
appearing in prefatory note to the Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment)
Bill, 2006 interalia noted that the victims are the worst sufferers in a crime and
they don't have much role in the court proceedings and they need to be given
certain rights and compensation, so that there is no distortion of the criminal
justice system. 12. Since rights of victim were sought to be recognised by this Amendment
Act, hence it can be said that the Amending Act is an instance of a rights-
based approach and it guarantees certain rights to the victims of crime,
including the right to receive compensation and it also provides for an inclusive
approach which builds up on the idea of access to justice for all. The provision
is victim centric and has nothing to do with the offender. The spotlight is on the
victim only. This is made clear by the provision itself as it entitles an eligible
victim to receive compensation thereunder even in cases where the offender is
not identified, or even if the accused is acquitted or discharged. The object of 7 victim compensation is also to create mechanisms for rehabilitation measures
by way of medical and financial aid to certain victims. 13. To appreciate the issue under consideration, the provisions of section
357-A of the Code is reproduced hereinbelow:- (4) Where the offender is not traced or identified, but the
 victim is identified, and where no trial takes place, the
 victim or his dependents may make an application to the
 State or the District Legal Services Authority for award of
 compensation. (5) On receipt of such recommendations or on the
 application under sub-section (4), the State or the District
 Legal Services Authority shall, after due enquiry award
 adequate compensation by completing the enquiry within
 two months. (6) The State or the District Legal Services Authority, as
 the case may be, to alleviate the suffering of the victim,
 may order for immediate first-aid facility or medical
 benefits to be made available free of cost on the
 certificate of the police officer not below the rank of the
 officer in charge of the police station or a Magistrate of 8 the area concerned, or any other interim relief as the
 appropriate authority deems fit. 14. From perusal of Section 357A of the Code, I find that Sub Section 1 therein provides that the State, in coordination with the Central Government,
has to prepare a scheme to provide fund for compensation to the victim or the
dependent, who suffered loss or injury and would require rehabilitation. Sub Section 2 provides that the District Legal Services Authority or the State Legal
Services Authority shall decide the quantum of compensation to be awarded
under the scheme on the recommendation of the Court. As per Sub Section 3 ,
at the conclusion of trial, if the court feels that the compensation in terms of
Section 357 of the Code is not adequate for rehabilitation, or in the case where
the accused is discharged or acquitted, but the victim has to be rehabilitated,
the Court may make recommendation for compensation. Sub Section 4 caters
the situation when the offender is not traced or identified but the victim is
identified. In a situation when no trial takes place, the victim or his/her
dependent may make an application to the Legal Services Authority for
awarding compensation. Sub Section 5 provides for a due enquiry before
awarding compensation either on recommendation or on application. Sub
Section 6 gives power to the Legal Services Authority to provide for immediate
relief by way of interim measure. 15. Thus, if Section 357A of the Code is analysed, the following important
features can be culled out: 16. From the provision of law i.e. Section 357A of the Code it is clear that
there has to be a fund, so created for the purpose of paying compensation.
The fund is created to enable payment of compensation from the said fund.
The intention of the legislature is clear that the amount of compensation to be
paid to the victim or the dependent of the victim has to be from the fund itself.
No alternative source has been provided by the statute to make payment of
victim compensation in terms of Section 357A of the Code. Further analysis of
Sub Section 1 of Section 357A of the Code, I find that the victim or the
dependent of the victim, whom the victim compensation has to be paid under
the aforesaid section, must suffer loss or injury as a result of the crime and
should require rehabilitation. From simple reading of the aforesaid provision, it
is clear that not only the victim has to suffer loss or injury as a result of the
crime, but, must also require rehabilitation. The word 'and' is used with a
purpose. This conjunctive word joins the two conditions, i.e., (i) suffering loss
or injury; and (ii) requires rehabilitation. Both these two conditions must co-
exist, to qualify for grant of compensation. So the requirement of rehabilitation
of victim is an important factor in granting victim compensation under Section
357A of the Code. Thus, merely suffering a loss, by itself, will not attract
payment of compensation in terms of Section 357A of the Code, simultaneous
requirement of rehabilitation is also necessary. Similarly, if no loss or injury is
caused, there is no question of rehabilitation. This view is fortified by the
schedule framed and appended to the notification dated 3rd August, 2012 and
subsequent notifications, amending the Scheme, issued by the State of
Jharkhand (the scheme framed under Section 357A of the Code). The
schedule provides for payment of compensation to the victim, whose injuries
relates to the life and limb of the person. If the nature of the injuries mentioned
in the Schedule is seen, then it can be deduced that if a person suffers those
injuries he/she definitely needs rehabilitation. In case of death, his/her
dependents need to be rehabilitated. Thus, as observed earlier, necessity to
rehabilitate is a ground for consideration of payment of victim compensation. 17. Further the role of the Court is defined in the aforesaid Section. As per
the provision, the role of the Court is only to recommend payment of victim
compensation. The Court, here is not limited to Trial Court only. In Sub Section
2 of Section 357A of the Code, the term 'Court' is used, whereas in Sub Section 3 , the legislature uses the word "Trial Court". Thus, as per the
provision of the Code, both the Trial court and the Superior Court is vested
with the power to recommend payment of victim compensation. As per the
statute, the recommendation has to be made to the District Legal Services
Authority or the State Legal Services Authority. As per Sub Section 2 of
Section 357A of the Code, whenever recommendation is received by the Legal
Services Authority, either the State or the District, it is the said Authority, who
shall decide the quantum of compensation to be awarded under the scheme.
The same is the position as per Sub Section 5 of Section 357A of the Code.
As per the said provision also it is the District or the State Legal Services
Authority, who after due enquiry, award adequate compensation. Thus, in
every scenario either the quantum of compensation or the adequacy of the
compensation, is to be adjudged and decided by the State or District Legal
Services Authority. The Court is not vested with the power under Section 357A
of the Code to quantify the amount of compensation, rather that power is
vested with the Legal Services Authority. This is because the provision
provides for holding an enquiry to assess and ascertain the loss sustained,
injury caused and the extent and nature of rehabilitation required. This enquiry
cannot be done by the Court, as per the Code. Thus, in my view, a Court
cannot fix or determine the quantum of victim compensation under Section
357A of the Code. 18. The State of Jharkhand, in exercise of powers conferred under Section
357A of the Code, have framed a scheme for providing funds for the purpose
of compensation to the victim or to his/her dependents, who have suffered loss
or injury as a result of crime and who requires rehabilitation. Clause 3 of the
said scheme provides for creation of a fund. Sub Clause 'd' constitutes the
fund from which the amount of victim compensation has to be paid. As per the
said scheme, it is the State Government, who shall allot a separate budget
every year for the purpose of the scheme. The Director Prosecution is the
Chairman of the State Committee, who will control the fund. The procedure for
grant of compensation has been laid down in Clause 5 of the scheme. As per
the said Clause also, the Court has to give its recommendation for payment of
victim compensation. The recommendation has to be made to the State or 11 District Legal Services Authority. The said Authority has to verify the claim with
regard to the loss or injury caused to the victim arising out of the criminal
activity. The genuineness of the claim has to be verified by the authority. After
verifying the claim, so put forth, the District or State Legal Services Authority
shall award the compensation in terms of Sub Clause 'x' of Clause 5. It is the
District Legal Services Authority, who is vested with the power to decide the
quantum of compensation. The compensation may vary from case to case,
depending on facts of each case. As per the said scheme, the quantum of
compensation cannot exceed the maximum limit, nor can be lower than the
limit as prescribed in the schedule of the scheme. Sub clause 'M+' of Clause 5,
specifically provides that the amount of compensation under the scheme shall
be paid from the fund. A provision of appeal is also provided in the said
scheme. 19. If schedules of the Scheme are perused, I find that it provides therein,
that a person sustaining the specified categories of injuries are entitled to
receive victim compensation in terms of Section 357A of the Code. By notification dated 29.09.2016, Victim Compensation (Amendment)
Scheme, 2016 was introduced wherein at Schedule 1 the following amount of
minimum compensation has been specified against each category of injuries.
The probable English translation of the Schedule 1 is quoted hereinbelow:- 20. The Scheme, which was framed on 3rd August 2012, was amended by
notification dated 29.09.2016 and 30.07,2019, by which the types of loss and
injury, in the schedule provided, has been added but the basic structure of the
scheme remained the same. Thus, Section 357A of the Code read with the
scheme framed by the state of Jharkhand is self-contained, wherein the
procedure is also prescribed. 21. It is well settled that where the statute provides for a thing to be done in
a particular manner, then it has to be done in that manner and in no other
manner. This proposition of law laid down in Taylor Vs. Taylor (1875) 1 Ch D
426,431 was first adopted in Nazir Ahmed Vs. King Emperor reported in AIR
1936 PC 253 and then followed by a bench of three Judges of the Hon'ble
Supreme Court in Rao Shiv Bahadur Singh Vs. State of Vindhya Pradesh 13 reported in AIR 1954 SC 322. This proposition was further explained in
paragraph 8 of State of U.P. Vs. Singhara Singh by a bench of three Judges
reported in AIR 1964 SC 358 in the following words:- In Chandra Kishore Jha vs. Mahavir Prasad , reported in (1999) 8
SCC 266, the Supreme Court has held that it is a well-settled salutary principle
that if a statute provides for a thing to be done in a particular manner, then it
has to be done in that manner and in no other manner. In Dhananjaya Reddy
vs. State of Karnataka , reported in (2001) 4 SCC 9, the Hon'ble Supreme
Court has reiterated the said principle of law that where a power is given to do
a certain thing in a certain manner, the thing must be done in that way or not at
all. 22. Thus, it is now well settled that a procedure that has been laid down in a
Statute has to be strictly followed and if a statute provides for performing a
particular act in a particular way, the same has to be performed in a way or in
the manner as prescribed in the statute itself. There cannot be any deviation. 23. As discussed above, from Section 357A of the Code and the scheme
framed by the State of Jharkhand in exercise of the powers under Section
357A of the Code, the power to determine and fix the quantum of
compensation is only vested with the State or District Legal Services Authority
and a Court can only recommend payment of victim compensation, quantum
of which has to be ascertained and determined by the State or the District
Legal Services Authority. 24. Section 357 of the Code and Section 357A of the Code are the two
provisions, relying on which compensation and victim compensation is
granted. In terms of Section 357, the Court has been vested with the power to
award compensation and fix the quantum of compensation too. To fix the
quantum of compensation, many factors have to be looked into, like the nature 14 of injuries and loss suffered, the capacity of the accused to pay the said
compensation etc. Section 357 comes to play at the time of awarding sentence
after conclusion of the trial, when the guilt of the accused is proved and the
accused no longer remains an accused, rather becomes a convict. The Court
can grant or refuse compensation under Section 357 of the Code, but, while
doing so, the Court must apply its mind to the question of compensation, in
each criminal case. The Hon'ble Supreme Court, in the case of Ankush
Shivaji Gaikwad versus State of Maharashtra reported in (2013) 6 SCC 770
(at paragraph 66) has held that it is also beyond dispute that the occasion to
consider the question of award of compensation would logically arise only after
the Court records conviction of the accused. Capacity of the accused to pay,
which constitutes an important aspect of any order under Section 357 of the
Code would involve a certain inquiry, albeit summary, unless of course, the
facts, as emerging in the course of the trial are so clear that the Court
considers it unnecessary to do so. Such an inquiry can precede an order on
sentence to enable the Court to take a view both on the question of sentence
and compensation, that it may in its wisdom, decide to award to the victim or
his/her family. This judgment was delivered by the Hon'ble Supreme Court, considering
Section 357 of the Code. 25. From the aforesaid interpretation, it is quite clear that before granting
compensation, there has to be some inquiry. When Section 357A of the Code
is read, it is seen that Sub Section 5 of Section 357A also provides for some
inquiry for awarding adequate compensation. So, what would be adequate
compensation depends upon the result of enquiry. If any Court, under Section
357A of the Code, quantifies the amount of compensation, the same cannot be
without an inquiry as to whether the compensation is adequate or not. Thus,
legislature, in its wisdom, has vested the power of inquiry, as envisaged in
Section 357A (5), with the State or District Legal Services Authority and the
Court has only been vested with a power to recommend payment of victim
compensation. This recommendation should be without quantifying the
amount. 26. As held above, the procedure of making payment of victim
compensation has already been laid down in Section 357A of the Code. The
process starts after (i) recommendation made by the Court; and (ii) on
application made by the victim. When either of the two is received by the State 15 or District Legal Services Authority, in terms of Sub Section 5 of Section 357A
of the Code, an enquiry has to be made by the said Authority and thereafter
only an award for payment of adequate compensation has to be made. This
procedure has to be followed as the procedure is enshrined in the statute
itself. 27. Further, I find that as per the Scheme formulated by the State, there is a
provision of appeal against denial of compensation by the aggrieved victim.
Clause 9 is the provision of appeal, which says that any victim aggrieved by
the denial of compensation by the District Legal Service Authority may file an
appeal before the State Committee within a period of six months. "Denial of
compensation" does not mean and cannot be limited to a case where the
entire amount is denied. Schedule I of the Scheme though provides the lower
limit, but, there is no upper limit prescribed for payment of compensation.
Schedule II of the Scheme provides for minimum and maximum amount of
compensation, which can be paid. This means that if the District Legal
Services Authority awards compensation, which is less than the maximum
amount, and/or the victim is aggrieved by the quantum so fixed, he/she can file
an appeal before the State Committee. Keeping this provision in mind, if, in a
situation, the Court directly quantifies the compensation in terms of Section
357A of the Code and the District Legal Services Authority pays the said
amount and the victim is aggrieved by the said quantum, though the victim has
a statutory appellate remedy, but, the forum of the said appeal being the State
Committee, will not be competent to decide the appeal as the quantification
has been done by the Court. In simple words, there may be an anomalous
situation as the order of the Court on the quantum of compensation, as per the
appellate provision, will be heard by the State Committee, which is an inferior
forum to that of a Court. So, keeping in view the interpretation made above, I
am of the view that quantification of compensation cannot be done by the
Court. Further, a direction of the Court to make payment of victim
compensation, quantifying the amount, may in certain cases result in payment
of inadequate compensation also, as the same would be without an
appropriate enquiry. It is needless to say that the provision of the Act provides
for conducting an enquiry before payment of victim compensation. 28. Directly quantifying the amount by a Court and giving direction to make
payment of victim compensation, according to me, will go against the provision
of Section 357A itself. This means the statutory provision of enquiry is being 16 done away with. Now, the question is whether the Court can pass any order,
which amounts to doing away with any of the procedure prescribed by a
statute. A Five Judges Bench of the Hon'ble Supreme Court, in the case of Central Bureau of Investigation & Others versus Keshub Mahindra and
Others reported in (2011) 6 SCC 216 (at paragraph 11) has held that no
decision by any Court, nor even that of a Supreme Court, can be read in a
manner as to nullify the express provisions of an Act or a Code. This also
means that there cannot be any order or judgment passed by the Court, which
nullifies an express provision of law. In this case, there is an express provision
of law to hold an enquiry before fixing the quantum thus passing any order
fixing quantum of compensation will mean bypassing the statutory provision of
holding enquiry, which, I feel, is not permissible. 29. Further, the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Union of India
versus Hansoli Devi reported in (2002) 7 SCC 273 (at paragraph 9), has
held:- 30. Further, in Gurudevdatta VKSSS Maryadit and Others versus State
of Maharashtra and Others reported in (2001) 4 SCC 534 at paragraph 26
thereof, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held as under: - 31. Further, the aforesaid principle has been reiterated by the Hon'ble
Supreme Court, after considering and relying upon several judgments, in the
case of B. Premanand and Others versus Mohan Koikal and Others reported in (2011) 4 SCC 266. It is necessary to quote paragraph 24 of the
aforesaid judgment: - 32. The wordings of Section 357A are already simple, plain and
unambiguous. Construction of the same does not lead to any absurdity. Thus,
the words used therein should be construed according to its grammatical
meaning and should be given their ordinary meaning. Plain and simple reading
of the provision provides that the Court is a recommending authority and the 18 quantification has to be done by the Legal Services Authority, after proper
enquiry. If the provision is interpreted that the Court has the power to quantify
the victim compensation and also has the power to direct making of such
payment, then there will be conflict with the provisions of the law. 33. Thus, in view of what has been held above and as per interpretation of
Section 357A of the Code, I hold that while exercising jurisdiction under
Section 357A of the Code, the role of the Court is recommendatory in nature
and the Court cannot fix any quantum of victim compensation nor can direct
the authority to make payment of the same to the victim. The Court has the
power only to recommend to the District or State Legal Service Authority to
pay compensation, without quantifying the amount, which has to be quantified
and assessed adequately by the State or District Legal Services Authority after
an enquiry. 34. Now, the second issue, which falls for consideration is, as to whether
the Court can direct an accused to pay compensation or victim compensation
at the time of granting bail or at any stage prior to conclusion of the trial. 35. The term 'compensation' has not been defined in the Code. The word
'compensation' is not uncommon to legal proceedings. Black's Law
Dictionary (7th Edition), inter alia, defines compensation to mean "Payment of
Damages, or any other act that a Court orders to be done by a person who
has caused injury to another and must therefore make the other whole. 36. A person, who has perpetrated the crime, is also liable to compensate
the victim of the crime. When a First Information Report is lodged with an
allegation made against any person, to have committed the crime, the said
allegation is a mere accusation. Making accusation against a person does not
make him guilty of an offence. The accusation against the said person has to
be established beyond all reasonable doubts. Till the accusation/allegation is
not established beyond all reasonable doubts, the person remains as an
accused. The presumption remains in favour of the accused that he is
innocent. Only when the Court holds the accused guilty of the crime, then only
there is confirmation that the accused is guilty of the offence. This is done only
after conclusion of the trial, when the judgment is pronounced. Immediately
when the accused is found to be guilty of the offence, his status changes to
that of a 'convict' from an 'accused', as the Court convicts him of the offence. 37. The above foundational principle has been recently reiterated by the
Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Pradeep Kumar Sonthalia versus
Dhiraj Prasad Sahu @ Dhiraj Sahu and Another reported in 2020 SCC
Online SC 1039, while deciding as to from when a person can be termed as a
convict, has held as follows: - In the aforesaid case, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held that since
the conviction took place at 14.30 p.m., till 14.30 p.m. he is presumed to be
innocent. 38. Thus, only after conviction, it is proved that he is the person, who has
perpetrated the crime against the victim. Thus, when it is proved that the said
accused has committed a crime against the victim, the victim is also entitled to
be compensated by the said convict. When a person is an accused and the
Court is not sure as to whether he has committed the offence or not, in that
situation, when there is uncertainty, the accused cannot be saddled with the
liability to pay compensation. A person, who has not committed the crime, by
no stretch of imagination, can be directed to pay compensation. At a stage of
hearing of bail plea, the guilt of the accused is not proved or established. What
is established at that stage, is the identity of the victim and the fact that the
said victim has suffered some loss and needs rehabilitation. Thus, at that
stage, the victim qualifies to be compensated, but, the said compensation
cannot be from the accused, whose guilt is yet to be proved. 39. As per Section 357A of the Code and the Scheme, even if the accused
is not identified or he is discharged or acquitted, the victim is entitled to get
compensation from the fund, which is created by the State. In other words, it is
the State, who has to compensate the victim. The State being the paramount
protector of the life and liberty of each and every citizen, has some
responsibility towards them. Even if the accused is acquitted or discharged or
even if the accused is not identified, it is the duty of the State to protect its
citizens and to rehabilitate them if they suffer loss and injury arising out of a
crime. When these crimes are heinous and affects the social fabric, and victim
is downtrodden and belongs from the lower strata of the society, the
responsibility of the State increases manifolds. Thus, it is the State who has to
compensate the victim of these type of crimes, irrespective of the fact whether
the accused has been identified or not or whether the accused has been
discharged/acquitted. This is the reason as to why, in terms of Section 357A of
the Code, the State is saddled with the liability to compensate and rehabilitate
the victim and not the accused, whose guilt is yet to be proved. 40. In a situation, if at the stage of grant of bail or at any stage prior to
pronouncement of judgment, the Court directs the accused to pay
compensation to the victim, then, ultimately, if the accused is acquitted holding
him to be innocent, then, by virtue of the order of the Court, an innocent
person, who has not committed the offence will be forced to pay the
compensation. This is not what the law provides for. A person, who has got no
connection with the offence or has got nothing to do with the offence or is 21 innocent, cannot be directed to compensate any one. If ultimately, the accused
is declared innocent and is acquitted, he will have a right to recover the
amount he has paid as compensation pursuant to the order passed by the
Court. This will not only give rise to unnecessary litigation, but, will also cause
undue and uncalled for harassment and hardship to the victim, who by that
time, may have utilized the entire money. 41. I find that as per Section 357A(1) of the Code, a scheme has to be
prepared for providing fund for payment of compensation to the victim. The
State of Jharkhand has framed the scheme. 42. Neither Section 357A of the Code nor the Scheme formulated by the
State of Jharkhand provides that an accused has to make payment of
compensation. The entire scheme provides that the compensation has to be
paid from a fund, which is so created by the State. So far as the State of
Jharkhand is concerned, a fund has been created by the State with a yearly
budgetary allocation. 43. Compensation under Section 357A of the Code is directed to be paid to
a victim when the victim suffers some loss and injury and needs rehabilitation.
The point that the victim is entitled to receive a compensation has nothing to
do with the accused or with the trial, which is evident from perusal of Section
357A of the Code or the Scheme formulated under the said provision.
Similarly, if Section 357 of the Code is read, I find that in terms of the said
provision, it is only the convict (perpetrator of the crime), who has to pay
compensation. 44. A conjoint reading of Section 357 and 357A(3), would clarify that if the
convict is not in a position to compensate the victim adequately and the Court
feels so, may recommend payment of further compensation, by invoking
Section 357A(3) of the Code. The "Inadquate Compensation", which the
convict pays in terms of Section 357 of the Code is made "adequate" by
payment of additional compensation, which has to be paid by the State in
terms of Section 357A(3) of the Code. Thus, the intent of the legislature is
quite clear that the victim compensation, which has to be paid in terms of
Section 357A of the Code has to be paid by the State from the fund, so
created, and not by the accused. It is only by invoking Section 357 of the
Code, after conclusion of trial, holding the guilt of the accused, the convict
should be directed to pay compensation. 45. Compensation is ordered to be paid by a Court only after a finding is
arrived that the person, directed to pay compensation, has caused any injury
by committing a wrong or has committed a breach of a legal obligation, be it
statutory or contractual. Thus, to direct an accused to pay any compensation
or victim compensation under Section 357A of the Code at the stage of bail by
terming it as a condition of bail also may amount to prejudging the guilt of an
accused and such a course of action runs completely contrary to the basic
principle of criminal jurisprudence, i.e., presumption of innocence until proven
guilty. 46. Further, as held earlier, the Court cannot direct to make payment of
victim compensation, rather, can only recommend. 47. So far as the question as to whether at the stage of grant of bail, the
Court can direct payment or recommend victim compensation, is concerned,
as discussed, earlier, the Court being a recommending authority, as per
Section 357A, can only recommend. In view of Section 357A(6), any interim
relief can be granted to the victim. This interim relief can also be by way of
interim victim compensation. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Suresh & Another versus State of Haryana reported in (2015) 2 SCC 227
has held that at any stage of the trial victim compensation can be paid. Once
the victim is identified, there is no embargo in paying victim compensation
even at the stage of consideration of bail of the accused, which is an
interlocutory phase. If the Court feels that the victim needs interim relief, the
Court can very well recommend for payment of victim compensation in terms
of Section 357A of the Code. There is no embargo upon the Court to make
such recommendation. Thus, I hold that at any stage of the proceeding,
including at the stage of considering bail application, the Court can
recommend payment of victim compensation by way of interim measure, to the
victim. 48. Thus, on issue No.2, it is held that before conclusively holding the
accused guilty of committing the crime, even at the stage of bail, he cannot be
saddled with the liability of making payment of any compensation under
Section 357A of the Code to the victim. The Court has power to recommend
payment of victim compensation under Section 357A of the Code at any stage
of the trial, even after conviction, and any compensation recommended to be
paid by invoking Section 357A of the Code, has to be paid from the fund, so
created. 49. The last question, which falls for consideration is whether the
submission made by the accused persons in course of argument before the
leaned Judicial Commissioner, Ranchi, while hearing the anticipatory bail
application to the effect that, they are ready to pay victim compensation can be
a ground / relevant consideration to grant the relief. 50. A bail is a rule and jail is an exception. This principle has been reiterated
by the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in many of its pronouncements. Very
recently, in the case of Arnab Manoranjan Goswami versus State of
Maharashtra and others reported in 2020 SCC OnLine SC 964, the Hon'ble
Supreme Court reiterated the aforesaid principle that bail is rule and refusal is
exception. In paragraph 78, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has observed as
follows: - 51. After noticing the principles that the Supreme Court of India has evolved
over a period of time and after taking note of the judgments rendered in the
cases of Prahlad Singh Bhati versus NCT, Delhi [(2001) 4 SCC 280]; Ram
Govind Upadhyay versus Sudarshan Singh [(2002) 3 SCC 598]; State of
UP through CBI versus Amarmani Tripathi [(2005) 8 SCC 21]; Prasanta
Kumar Sarkar versus Ashis Chatterjee [(2010) 14 SCC 496]; Sanjay
Chandra versus CBI [(2012) 1 SCC 40]; and P. Chidambaram versus
Central Bureau of Investigation [(2019) SCC OnLine SC 1380], the Hon'ble
Supreme Court in the case of Arnab Manoranjan Goswami (supra)
summarized the factors for grant of bail to be as follows:- 52. More recently on 19.01.2021, in the case of Dalip Singh versus State
of Madhya Pradesh and Another [Criminal Appeal No.53 of 2021] the
Hon'ble Supreme Court, while reiterating the above factors for grant of bail /
anticipatory bail also observed at paragraph 5 as follows: - 53. Thus, what can be culled out from the aforesaid decision is that while
considering bail or anticipatory bail, prime consideration would be nature of the
alleged offence and the accusation and the severity of the punishment in case
of conviction. Whether prima facie the ingredients of the offence are made out
or not also needs to be evaluated. It is also to be seen whether there exists
any reasonable apprehension of the accused tampering with the witnesses or
being a threat to the witness. Further, whether the accused will face trial or not
or there is any possibility of accused being fleeing from trial is also to be
considered. Antecedents of the accused and the circumstances, which are
peculiar, related to the accused, should also be considered by the Court. Thus,
I am of the opinion that payment of compensation or victim compensation
cannot be a consideration or a ground for grant of bail. Even if an accused
volunteers to pay compensation, the same cannot be of any consideration at
all. The said submission would be a submission not related to the 26 consideration on which a bail is granted. An accused, who is in custody or who
is apprehending arrest, and is praying for bail, can make any submission
before the Court, as for him his only concern is that he should be granted bail,
whatever may be the conditions imposed. The Court should not be swayed by
those submissions made by the parties, rather should evaluate and base his
order on correct perspective. It is the Court, who has to decide, whether those
submissions are within the parameters defined by law. If payment of
compensation becomes a consideration for grant of bail, not only the same will
be against the provision of law, but will also have a catastrophic effect upon
the criminal justice administration. In that event, there will be persons with
criminal intent in their mind, who will be roaming in the society with a knife in
one hand and a purse full of money in another. Thus, any submission on
behalf of the accused volunteering to pay compensation to the victim, in lieu of
grant of bail, should not, at all, be considered by the Court. 54. In the instant case, while going through the impugned order, I find that
bail was not granted solely on the aforesaid submission made by the accused
persons. The bail was granted on merits after considering the relevant
considerations, which is necessary to consider for grant of bail. Just because
there is some submission made at the time of hearing, that the accused are
ready to pay victim compensation, the Court has imposed a condition that the
accused jointly will pay Rs.1,00,000/- as victim compensation to the
complainant / informant. As held earlier, in this judgment, that an accused
cannot be saddled with payment of victim compensation, as the same is not in
consonance with Section 357A nor with the Scheme, the Court could not have
directed the petitioners to pay the said amount as victim compensation. Any
such submission also by the accused is also not in consonance with the
provision of law, which cannot be legalised by the Court by accepting such
submission. Thus, the direction given by the Court / the condition imposed
upon the petitioners, to pay Rs.1,00,000/- jointly to the complainant / informant
is not in consonance with Section 357A. Further, the Court could not have also
quantified the amount of victim compensation, as held in this judgment. On the
facts of the complaint, the case is allegedly of cheating. The offence alleged
therein and the nature of injury, if any, caused to the victim is not covered by
the schedules of Victim Compensation Scheme framed by the State of
Jharkhand. Thus, when the loss or injury so allegedly caused, is not expressly
covered under the Schedules of the Scheme, there cannot be any
recommendation far less a direction to pay victim compensation. Directing the 27 accused to pay victim compensation as a condition of bail will be against the
provision of law. 55. Thus, the part of the order dated 20th January 2020 passed by the
Judicial Commissioner, Ranchi in A.B.P. No. 1987 of 2019, directing the
petitioners to make payment of victim compensation to the tune of
Rs.1,00,000/-, being bad in law, is quashed and set aside. Interim order dated
12.11.2020 passed in this case is made absolute. 56. As a result of what has been discussed and held above, it is held that a
Court cannot quantify and fix the amount of victim compensation under
Section 357A of the Code. As per the aforesaid provision of law, the Court can
only recommend payment of compensation, which has to be quantified after
adjudging the adequacy of the same, by the State or District Legal Services
Authority after a proper enquiry. Further, it is held that a Court, at any stage of
trial, even at the stage of grant of bail, or even after conclusion of trial, can
recommend payment of victim compensation under Section 357A of the Code.
Further, I hold that the amount of victim compensation under Section 357A of
the Code has to be paid from the fund, so created in terms of the Scheme, by
the State only and an accused cannot be directed to pay victim compensation. 57. Thus, this criminal miscellaneous petition stands allowed. (Ananda Sen, J.)
Kumar/Cp-03