-B of IPC . He has also examined some witnesses but he has

not been cross-examined at all. Of course, it is not material whether cross-

examination is completed or not in view of the decision of the aforesaid

Constitution Bench but the question arises whether the evidence of past IO

and informant is enough to put the petitioner to face trial while after

investigation, charge-sheet was not submitted against him. Apart from

this, the registration of the FIR for the offences, are not the offences for

which the present petitioner is asked to face trial by the learned trial Court. 17. In this case, it further appears that the present petitioner and

two other accused against whom the cognizance has been taken to face

trial have been arrayed as witnesses in the original charge-sheet. So,

learned Court below, instead of being moved with the evidence of P.W.6,

should have examined more witnesses to find out whether there is a prima

facie material made out in the FIR or not to invoke the jurisdiction of the

Court under Section 319 of the Code. On the other hand, P.W.5 has clearly

stated that after he visited the spot and ascertained about the feasibility of

the nature, gave his report and then the present petitioner, being the

Manager of the OSFC, made visit for disbursement of the loan amount.

There is no witness examined to implicate the petitioner till examination of - 11 - P.W.6. Apart from this, Sections 420 / 477-A of IPC has got following

ingredients: The essential ingredients to attract Section 477-A of IPC are: by deceiving him; (ii)(a) the person so deceived should be inducted to deliver any
 property to any person, or to consent that any person shall retain
 any property; or (b) the person so deceived should be intentionally induced to do or
 omit to do anything which he would not do or omit if he were not so
 deceived; and (iii) in cases covered by (ii)(b), the act of omission should be one
 which causes or is likely to cause damage or harm to the person
 induced in body, mind, reputation of property." 18. The impugned order does not disclose how the ingredients of

the aforesaid offences are prima facie available to issue process against the

present petitioner under Section 319 of the Code even if he relied on the

FIR made by the P.W.6, who admittedly did not disclose such offences. 19. In terms of the above discussion, it appears that the learned

Magistrate has exercised his jurisdiction without the material, which is - 12 - necessary for framing of charge because the cognizance of offences had

been taken at the time of purportedly exercising power under Section 319

of the Code, as above. This view is taken relying upon the decision of the

Hon‟ble Supreme Court in the case of Hardeep Singh (Supra). As per the

decision of the Hon‟ble Supreme Court in the case of Prakash Singh

Badal and another (Supra), the Hon‟ble Supreme Court, at paragraph-

57, have observed in the following manner: 20. With due regard to the aforesaid decision, it appears that

Section 197 of the Code will not protect the officials who are involved with

the aforesaid offences even if committed during discharge of duty. So, the

petitioner is not protected under Section 197 of the Code for the offence

alleged against him under Sections 477-A / 420 IPC. 21. Learned Standing Counsel for the Vigilance, relying upon the

decision of the Hon‟ble Supreme Court in the case of Mohit @ Sonu and

another (Supra), submitted that in order to defeat the provisions for

revision, the present petition has been filed. The decision of the Hon‟ble

Supreme Court relates to the case where the petition was filed to summon

additional accused under Section 319 of the Code and it was rejected. In

that case, the Additional Sessions Judge rejected the revision against which

a petition under Section 482 of the Code has filed before the High Court of

Judicature at Allahabad to circumvent the sub-section 2 of section 397 of - 13 - the Code. Here, the case is not on the same fact. Here section 482 of the

Code has been invoked to challenge the order passed under Section 319 of

the Code where the cognizance has been taken against the present

petitioner. No doubt, he could have filed the revision before the Sessions

Court or this Court but that does not debar him to file the present CRLMC

under Section 482 of the Code. It is well settled in law that a party can

seek remedy of revision under Section 397 or the inherent jurisdiction

under Section 482 of Code. Although the jurisdiction of the High Court

under Section 397 of the Code is limited but the jurisdiction of the High

Court under Section 482 of the Code is wide enough where the elements

are to be gone through. For exercising jurisdiction under Section 482 of the

Code, the Court is to find out if there is abuse of process of Court or for the

ends of justice, the impugned order is to be interfered. Therefore, the

submissions of the learned Standing Counsel Vigilance sans merit in this

respect. 22. In terms of the above discussions, the Court is of the opinion

that the order passed by the learned trial Court under Section 319 of the

Code, being abuse of process of Court, cannot be allowed to stand. Adding

to this, it appears that even if the case is remanded to the Court below to

pass fresh order by considering the further material after 24 years of

passing such order, it will be further abuse of process of Court. Hence, the

order dated 23.4.1994 passed by the learned J.M.F.C., Kamakhyanagar in

G.R. Case No.8/86 is quashed under Section 482 of the Code in so far as

the petitioner is concerned. - 14 - The CRLMC is disposed of accordingly. The interim order dated

14.01.2005 stands vacated and the learned trial Court is directed to

conclude the trial of the case and dispose of the same by the end of July,

2018. A copy of this judgment along with LCR be immediately sent

back to the concerned Court by Special Messenger. ................................. Dr.D.P.Choudhury,J. Orissa High Court, Cuttack
The 17th May,2018/Nayak