1. The appellant seeks setting aside of the judgment of conviction dated
 06.07.2023 and order on sentence dated 30.04.2024 passed by the Trial
 Court in proceedings arising out of FIR No. 362/2017 registered under Sections 376 / 354D / 342 / 506 IPC and Sections 6 / 12 POCSO at P.S. S.P.
 Badli. 2. Vide the aforesaid judgment, the appellant was convicted under Sections 376(2) / 342 / 506(II) IPC and Section 6 POCSO; and by way of the
 impugned order on sentence, he was sentenced to undergo RI for 6 months
 and pay a fine of Rs.1,000/-, in default thereof to undergo RI for 15 days, for Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PREM CRL.A. 603/2024 Page 1 of 10 MOHAN CHOUDHARY Signing Date:16.12.2025 23:02:36 the offence under Section 342 IPC; undergo RI for 4 years and pay a fine of
 Rs.2,000/-, in default thereof to undergo RI for 1 month, under Section
 506(II) IPC; and undergo RI for 20 years and pay a fine of Rs.2,000/-, in
 default thereof to undergo RI for 1 month, under Section 376(2) IPC. All the
 sentences were directed to run concurrently and the benefit under Section
 428 Cr.P.C. was granted to the appellant. 3. The background facts, as noted by the Trial Court, are as under:- 4. The medical examination of the child victim was conducted, and her
 statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C. was recorded. The I.O. also seized the
 DVR of the CCTV camera which was installed in the street where the room
 of the appellant was situated and the same was sent to FSL. The exhibits
 seized during the medical examination of the child victim, too, were sent to
 the FSL. On completion of investigation, the chargesheet came to be filed
 and charges were framed, to which the appellant pleaded not guilty and
 claimed trial. 5. While assailing the impugned judgment, the learned counsel for the
 appellant contended that the child victim is tutored, as there are various
 contradictions as to the occurrence of events and its reporting. Further, the
 victim's deposition also does not find support in her MLC or the forensic
 examination. The allegation of rape is also falsified by the CCTV footage,
 which does not show the victim even entering the appellant's premises. It is
 also contended that the appellant is falsely implicated in the case as the
 victim's family had taken loan of Rs.15,000/- from him, which they did not
 want to repay. 6. The contentions have been opposed by the learned APP for the State,
 as well as the learned counsel representing the victim, who jointly defended
 the impugned judgment. It is stated that the identity of the appellant is not in
 dispute, and the victim has consistently stated on the aspect of confinement, Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PREM CRL.A. 603/2024 Page 3 of 10 MOHAN CHOUDHARY Signing Date:16.12.2025 23:02:36 rape and the threats given by the appellant. 7. The child victim was examined as PW-1. She deposed that while her
 mother along with her siblings was living in Delhi, she used to reside with
 her maternal grandmother at their native village, and in the month of April
 2017, she had come to Delhi to stay with her mother, who got her admitted
 into a private school. She stated that four days prior to the arrest of the
 appellant, the appellant had met her, and on the pretext that her mother was
 calling her, he had taken her to his room and after removing her as well as
 his own clothes, committed the act of rape upon her. She further stated that
 as the appellant had put his hand on her mouth, she could not even scream.
 The appellant also inserted his finger in her vagina. He also threatened her
 not to disclose the incident; else she will be killed. She stated that as she was
 scared, she did not inform anyone about the incident. In this manner, the
 appellant continuously took her to his room for four days and committed the
 offence of rape. On 28.04.2017, after he had taken her to his room for the
 fourth day and committed the offence, while she was returning to her house,
 the appellant followed her. As she was scared, she stopped at a Govt. school
 and told one madam about the conduct of the appellant. The said madam
 called the child victim's mother, and the child victim thereafter went with
 her mother and pointed out the place where the appellant used to commit
 rape upon her. The appellant was at home. Her mother caught hold of the
 appellant and called the police. The child victim also exhibited her statement
 recorded under Section 164 Cr.P.C. and the photographs of the place of
 incident. She also exhibited her shirt and pajami as Ex. P-1 (collectively),
 panty as Ex. P-2, the bedsheet as Ex. P-3, and the clothes as Ex. P-4. In cross-examination on behalf of the accused/appellant, she answered
 that the appellant was already known to her as he used to live in the
 neighbourhood and frequent their house. A suggestion was given regarding
 the appellant having a dispute with the child victim's parents, and the same
 was denied. She stated that she goes to school alone and that it takes her half
 an hour to reach the school. When the appellant was taking her to his room,
 she did not raise any hue and cry. She also stated that there was no camera
 installed inside the room, however, outside there was a camera. Considering the tender age of the child victim, no further cross-
 examination was allowed; however, it was noted that in case there are any
 contradictions in her testimony, the same will be looked into at the time of
 the final arguments. 8. The child victim's mother, namely 'P', was examined as PW-2. She
 deposed that the child victim had come from the village about 10 days prior
 to the incident in question and that the witness had got her admitted in a
 private school. She used to drop her daughter to school as the child was not
 aware of the way. Once the child became aware of the route, the witness
 stopped accompanying her to school. She stated that victim did not go to
 school for 4 days as she was taken away by the appellant. On the fourth day,
 when her daughter came home crying, she inquired about her, upon which
 the child disclosed the incident to her. She stated that she also received a call
 from the school. In cross-examination, she stated that it takes about 10 minutes to go
 from her house to her daughter's school. The street where the appellant's
 room is located has a CCTV camera installed. She denied the suggestion that Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PREM CRL.A. 603/2024 Page 5 of 10 MOHAN CHOUDHARY Signing Date:16.12.2025 23:02:36 she knew the appellant prior to the incident. She also denied that the
 appellant used to come to her house often and that when she could not repay
 the loan of Rs.15,000/- she had taken from the appellant, a quarrel took
 place between her and the appellant, resulting in false implication. 9. The prosecution had examined the principal of the school where the
 child victim was studying, and accordingly, the documents relating to the
 date of birth of the child victim were brought on record, which disclosed the
 child to be a minor at the time of the incident. Even otherwise, the child
 victim's age is not in dispute. 10. The teacher, purportedly informed about the incident by the child
 victim, was examined as PW-6. She disclosed that on 28.04.2017, she was
 present in school when she observed that the victim was weeping. On being
 asked, the victim continued to cry, and then her mother was called. 11. The victim's MLC was exhibited through the testimony of Dr. Aastha,
 who was examined as PW-8. The MLC notes redness on the inner side of
 the victim's labia majora. The MLC does not record any fresh injury;
 however, it notes hymen torn, but no bleeding. 12. The prosecution also examined one Amit Kumar as PW-11. He
 deposed that on 28.04.2017 at about 12.30 PM, he saw the victim's mother,
 who was known to him, taking the victim somewhere. As the victim was
 crying, he inquired as to the reason, and the victim told him about the
 incident of rape committed by the appellant. The victim informed him that
 the appellant was living on the same street as where they were, and the
 witness accompanied them to the appellant's room. The police were called
 thereafter and the appellant was arrested. In cross-examination, he admitted that he never saw the victim going
 to the house of the appellant. He further admitted that he was not a witness
 to the incidents in question. 13. The owner of the house where the CCTV camera was installed was
 examined as PW-16. He deposed that he handed over the DVR, camera,
 power supply, and mouse to the I.O. He identified the equipment in Court.
 In cross-examination, he stated that he had shown the video clips of the
 previous three to four days to the I.O.; however, in none of the video clips
 could the appellant be seen taking the victim to his house. 14. The remaining witnesses are police officials who deposed as to
 various aspects of the investigation. 15. The appellant, at the time of recording his statement under Section
 313 Cr.P.C., denied the prosecution case and stated that the entire case was
 planted as the victim's mother did not want to return the sum of Rs.15,000/-
 that she had borrowed from him. He stated that he had asked the victim's
 mother to return his money, and a quarrel had transpired between them on
 the day of the incident. He examined one defence witness, a neighbour. DW-
 1 stated that in the month of April 2017, he had seen the appellant
 quarrelling with some lady who was residing as a tenant in Amit's house.
 The quarrel was on account of some money issue. He tried to pacify both the
 parties. He further stated that he had never seen the victim child coming to
 the house of the appellant. He stated that he was also shown the CCTV
 footage of 15 days from the date of the incident and at no point did he notice
 the victim coming into or going out of the house of the appellant. He further
 admitted that the appellant was residing on the same floor as him. 16. The FSL Report regarding the seized DVR opined that the recordings
 were continuous and also included the date and time. 17. The Trial Court, while finding the testimony of the child victim to be
 consistent, discarded the CCTV footage by observing that the possibility of
 the time and date being fed into the DVR manually cannot be ruled out. The
 Trial Court further relied on the medical examination report of the accused,
 wherein, upon local examination, smegma was found absent. 18. Learned counsel for the appellant, while pointing out the various
 contradictions in the statements of the child victim, has referred to her initial
 statement recorded under Section 164 Cr.P.C., as well as the Court
 deposition of the child victim. It is worthwhile to note that initially, the child
 victim stated that the accused had taken her to his house on the pretext that
 her mother was calling her. In her statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C.,
 however, she stated that she was dragged and blind-folded. There is also
 variation as to how the mother became aware about the alleged incident.
 While the child victim states that she had informed the Govt. school teacher,
 who then called the mother; the victim's mother stated that the child came
 home crying and on the mother inquiring, disclosed the incident. The school
 teacher rather stated that the child victim was seen crying and was not
 saying anything, whereafter somebody called her mother, and then the child
 left along with her mother. The teacher does not say anything about being
 informed of any wrong committed against the child victim by the appellant. 19. At this stage, it is also worthwhile to note that the exhibits seized
 during the medical examinations of the victim and the appellant were sent to
 the FSL, and the FSL report has remained inconclusive. 20. I find strength in the submission of learned counsel for the appellant
 that the Trial Court, without any basis, discarded the evidence of CCTV
 footage. The reasoning given by the Trial Court for the same appears to not
 be borne out from the record, but only from self-induced doubt about the
 date and time of the footage. The Trial Court failed to appreciate that there
 was an FSL Report which categorically opined that there was continuity in
 the recording and that there was no indication of alteration in the continuous
 footage of the CCTV recording as per the frame-by-frame analysis
 conducted by the FSL using Video Analyst System. The CCTV footage
 rather showed that at no point in time was the victim seen being taken by the
 appellant to his room or exiting therefrom. 21. The Trial Court further relied on medical examination report of the
 appellant wherein smegma was found to be absent. The same is also
 misplaced as the last act in question was allegedly committed in the
 forenoon of 28.04.2017, whereas the appellant was medially examined the
 next day on 29.04.2017. In this regard, a gainful reference may be made to
 the observation of the Supreme Court in Aman Kumar and Ors. Vs. State of
 Haryana1 , wherein it reiterated its observations made in Dr. S. P. Kohli,
 Civil Surgeon, Ferozpur Vs. High Court of Punjab and Haryana thr.
 Registrar as under: Decision dated 10.02.2004 in Criminal Appeal No. 1016 of 1997. 22. The medical examination of the child victim, despite revealing the
 hymen to be torn, does not note any fresh bleeding or injuries, which also
 creates a doubt on the allegations that victim was raped continuously for
 four days. 23. On the aforesaid aspect, the cross-examination of the neighbours,
 Amit Kumar and Udaiveer, is relevant, as they have admitted that they did
 not see the victim ever brought to the appellant's room. 24. In the considered opinion of this Court, the Trial Court has committed
 an error in convicting the appellant, who is entitled to the benefit of doubt.
 Accordingly, the present appeal succeeds and the impugned judgment of
 conviction and order on sentence are set aside. The appellant is directed to
 be set free unless required in any other case. 25. A copy of this judgment be sent to the concerned Jail Superintendent
 for information and necessary compliance. 26. A copy of this judgment also be communicated to the Trial Court for
 records. MANOJ KUMAR OHRI
 (JUDGE)
 DECEMBER 16, 2025
 ga Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PREM CRL.A. 603/2024 Page 10 of 10 MOHAN CHOUDHARY Signing Date:16.12.2025 23:02:36