A.K. SIKRI, J. This group of thirteen appeals was heard together and is being

 disposed of by this common judgment as an identical issue is involved

 therein. 2) At the outset, we may mention that the dispute between the parties Signature Not Verified Digitally signed by ASHWANI KUMAR Date: 2018.11.26 14:03:17 IST pertain to the shares of Respondent No.1, Star Health Insurance
Reason: Respondent nos. 4,6,and 7 filed Memos supporting these applications.

 The learned Single Judge of the High Court dismissed these

 applications holding that High Court had the jurisdiction to entertain the 3 suit. Appeals against this order were filed by Respondent nos. 1 to 9.

 The Division Bench has allowed these appeals by the common

 judgment dated August 03, 2018, thereby rejecting the plaint on the

 ground that suit in the High Court of Madras was not maintainable due to

 lack of territorial jurisdiction. This order is impugned in the instant

 appeals. 4) The brief facts leading to the case may be stated at this stage. It may

 be mentioned that only those facts which are essential to decide the

 controversy regarding jurisdictional issue are taken note of. Also, for the

 sake of clarity and convenience, the parties are addressed as plaintiffs

 and defendants, on the basis of memo of the parties in the suit. Since there are multiple parties to the litigations—contesting as

 well as proforma – we start with the description of these parties, which is

 as under: 2.98% of shares in Defendant no. 1/Indian Company. Defendant nos. 5

 to 7, sons of Defendant no. 3 and Mr. Arif Buhary respectively, all

 national and residents of Dubai, UAE hold 0.002% share each in the

 Indian Company. 8) Defendant no. 4, Mr. Essa Abdulla Ahmed Al Ghurair, a resident of

 Dubai, UAE, and the brother of the plaintiffs, holds a 3.18% share in

 Defendant no. 1/Indian Company. 9) Consequently, Defendant nos. 3 to 7 (i.e. the Buhary Family) along with

 Defendant no. 4 (who is the brother of the plaintiffs and all resident

 nationals of Dubai) jointly own 6.16% shares in the Indian Company. 10) All the share certificates regarding these 6.16% shares are held

 with the Proforma Defendant no. 11, viz., ETA Star Holding LLC, having 5 its registered office in Dubai, UAE, which is a limited liability company

 incorporated in the Emirates of Dubai, UAE under UAE Federal Law No.

 8 and is the 100% beneficial owner of the Indian Company. 11) The Contesting Defendant no. 8, Mr. V. Jagannathan, a resident of

 Chennai, Tamil Nadu India was the Manging Director of Defendant no.

 1/Indian Company at the time of institution of the Suit. 12) The Contesting Defendant no. 9, Mr. V.P. Nagarajan, a resident of

 Chennai, Tamil Nadu India was the Managing Personnel of Defendant

 no. 2 (incorporated in Dubai) at the time of institution of the Suit. 13) The Contesting Defendant no. 10, Mr. C.M. Kannan Unni, a

 resident of Chennai, Tamil Nadu India was the Joint Executive director

 and Company Secretary of Defendant no. 1 at the time of institution of

 the Suit. 14) The Proforma Defendant no. 12, Emirates Trading Agency is

 having its registered office in Dubai, UAE. It has 52% share held by the

 plaintiffs and 48% share held by the Defendant nos. 3 and 5 to 7. It had

 provided funds for and on behalf of the Defendant no. 2 towards the

 shares held by the Defendant nos. 3 to 7 in the Indian Company. 15) It is the case of the plaintiffs that the Defendant nos. 3 to 7 had

 made declarations that the shares of the Indian Company in their name 6 were actually held by them for and on behalf of Defendant no. 2.

 Conversely, they acknowledged that Defendant no. 2 had a beneficial

 interest in the shares of the Indian Company, though the shares were in

 their names. Since the Defendant no. 2 had a beneficial interest in the

 shares in the names of Defendant nos. 3 to 7, the actual share

 certificates were in the possession of Defendant no. 11, ETA Star

 Holding LLC, who in turn had a 100% beneficial holding over the

 Respondent No. 2. This declaration by Defendant nos. 3 to 7 was

 discontinued after the de-consolidation of accounts between Defendant

 nos. 2 and 11. 16) The case of the plaintiffs was that the majority group of

 shareholders of Defendant no. 2 should have taken some steps in order

 to assert that it was having a beneficial interest in the shares of the

 Indian Company, though allotted in the names of Defendant nos. 3 to 7.

 However, the majority shareholders, namely, Defendant nos. 3 to 7, who

 held 66% of the shares of the Indian Company, did not take any steps,

 thereby causing prejudice to the Indian Company. 17) In these circumstances, the minority shareholders, namely, the

 plaintiffs, who together hold 34% in the shares of the Indian Company,

 initiated the Suit, i.e., C.S. No. 33 of 2018 in the High Court of Judicature

 at Madras, in the nature of derivative action on behalf of the Indian 7 Company seeking protection and declaration of its beneficial interest in

 the shares available with the Indian Company standing in the names of

 Defendant nos. 3 to 7. 18) It is the claim of the plaintiffs that even the pre-incorporation

 expenses of the Indian Company were met by the funds remitted by

 Defendant no. 12. Defendant nos. 11 and 12 are further, part of the ETA

 Group of Companies in Dubai, UAE. According to the plaintiffs,

 Defendant no. 12 had remitted a total sum of Rs.1,43,00,000/- towards

 pre-incorporation expenses of the Indian Company between April 2005

 and October 2005. The same have been recorded in the books of

 account of Defendant no. 2. The plaintiffs have further claimed that four

 share certificates for a total of 33,200 shares were issued on July 11,

 2005 in favour of Defendant nos. 3, 5 and 7, who are shown as

 subscribers to the Memorandum of Association of Indian Company. The

 outstanding call amounts on these shares were satisfied from the

 remittance made in March 2006 by Defendant no. 12. These share

 certificates are in the custody of Defendant no. 11 in its capacity as

 beneficial interest holder of Defendant no. 2. Defendant nos. 3, 5 and 7

 have also made declarations acknowledging the beneficial interest of

 Defendant no. 2 in these shares. 19) It was further stated that on December 21, 2005 a sum of Rs.50/-

 lakhs was remitted by the Defendant no. 12 through bank transfer from 8 Mashreq Bank in Dubai to the Bank Account of the Indian Company in

 Andhra Bank, Chennai, Main Branch and share certificates were issued

 in favour of the Defendant no. 3, which has also been recorded in the

 books of accounts of the Indian Company. 20) Thereafter, on January 16, 2006, the Indian Company issued

 payment instructions to HSBC Bank, Dubai, for an amount of

 Rs.16,25,00,000/- to be deposited in the account of the Defendant no. 1

 in Andhra Bank, Chennai. According to the plaintiffs, contribution was

 towards equity share capital held by Defendant nos. 3 ad 4. Share

 certificates were also issued and recorded as having beneficial interest

 by the ETA Group. 21) Later, on March 06, 2006 the Indian Company received further

 investment through four demand drafts amounting to Rs.3,32,000/- from

 Defendant no. 12, which was recorded as beneficial interest of the

 Defendant no. 2. Defendant no. 11 is in possession of these shares as

 well. It has been further stated that between December, 2005 and

 March, 2006, a total sum of Rs.16,78,32,000/- had been received by the

 Indian Company from Defendant nos. 12 and 2 towards issue/allotment

 of shares. On June 25, 2009, Defendant no. 3, issued a personal

 cheque of Rs.2,13,00,000/- which was honoured on July 07, 2009 in the

 accounts of Defendant no. 2, and reflected that the investment was 9 made in the Indian Company. On June 28, 2009, a further investment

 was made in the Indian Company by Defendant no. 12 to the tune of

 Rs.2,14,00,000/- through payment instructions to Emirates Bank to debit

 the same, which was actually credited on July 01, 2009. In 2011, two

 investments were made on December 26, 2011 to the tune of

 Rs.17,70,00,000/- by payment instructions to Bank of Baroda, debiting

 the account of Defendant no. 12 and crediting the account of the Indian

 Company. Thereafter, share certificates in the names of the Defendant

 nos. 3 and 4 were issued by the Defendant no. 1 around February 10,

 2012. 22) The plaintiffs also stated that Defendant nos. 3 to 7 admitted and

 acknowledged that Defendant no. 2 had a beneficial interest in the share

 certificates of the India Company issued in their names. Defendant nos.

 3 to 7, however, do not have physical possession of these 2,72,20,448

 shares, the same being held by Defendant no. 11. It was also

 contended in the Plaint that Defendant nos. 3, 4, 5 and 7 had signed

 blank share transfer forms with respect to the shares of the Indian

 Company in favour of the Defendant nos. 2 and 11. Accordingly, it was

 urged that Defendant no. 2 has a beneficial interest over the shares of

 the Defendant no. 1 but held in the names of Defendant nos. 3 to 7. 10 23) It was further urged in the plaint that deconsolidation of the

 accounts and businesses of Defendant no. 2 with that of Defendant no.

 11 was effected in 2016 with retrospective effect from 2014. The same

 was on account of Defendant nos. 3, 4 and 7 to sign the financial

 statements of Defendant no. 2. It was also urged that till the time the

 Indian Company had requirements for funds, the interest of Defendant

 no. 2 was acknowledged and it was stopped subsequently. It was further

 urged that the entire remittance towards the suit shares of 6.16% of the

 Indian Company, were by the funds provided by Defendant no. 12 or

 Defendant no. 2 and no part of the funds came from the personal

 accounts of Defendant nos. 3 to 7. It was further urged by the plaintiffs

 that Defendant nos. 8 to 10 had direct knowledge of these facts. 24) It is pertinent to mention here that there is no dispute regarding the

 fact that the decision of the Board of Directors of the Group General

 Body followed by Defendant no. 11 through the draft financial statement

 would impact the beneficial interest of Defendant no. 2 in the shares

 held by in the names of Defendant nos. 3 to 7, which was the subject

 matter of the suit. 25) Plaintiff no. 2, under these circumstances, wrote the letter dated

 June 01, 2017 to Defendant no. 8 — the Managing Director of the Indian

 Company, protesting that the investments made by Defendant no. 2 11 were denied. Defendant no. 1, through its letter dated June 07, 2017

 refused to take notice of the claim asserted by the ETA Group. Plaintiff

 no. 2, thereafter, sent another letter dated June 12, 2017 to the Indian

 Company, addressed to the Managing Director of the Indian Company,

 giving details in support of the claim of the ETA Group. He also called for

 a meeting in person. However, Defendant nos. 8 and 9 along with other

 Directors of the Indian Company failed to attend the meeting proposed

 by Plaintiff no. 2. However, they sent a letter dated June 27, 2017 stating

 that they had earlier replied on June 07, 2017 itself and had nothing

 further to state. Plaintiff no. 2 sent another letter dated July 09, 2017

 reiterating his original stand. The Indian Company responded through

 letter dated July 27, 2017, stating that they were not obliged to offer any

 clarification to the same. 26) It was under these circumstances that the plaintiffs filed the Suit,

 C.S. No. 33 of 2018 at the High Court of Judicature at Madras. 27) The plaintiffs claim that the Indian Defendant no. 2 Company is

 under the control of wrong doers. They further claim that Defendant nos.

 8 to 10 were in active collusion with Defendant nos. 3 to 7 and that they

 have joined hands to deprive Defendant no. 2 of its beneficial interest in

 the suit shares, namely, 6.16% of shares of the Indian Company. 12 28) The plaintiffs have further stated that they came to know from

 Newspaper reports that the equity of Defendant no. 1 was to be sold to

 private equity investors through a bidding process and that Defendant

 nos. 3 to 7 along with Defendant nos. 8 to 9 were attempting to sell their

 investments in the Indian Company. 29) It was urged that in case such a sale was to happen, Defendant

 no. 2, which had financed the purchase of such shares would be put to

 loss if its beneficial interest was not recorded in the books of the Indian

 Company. 30) While filing the suit, the plaintiffs had filed application no. 292 of

 2018 seeking leave to institute the suit within the jurisdiction of the High

 Court of Judicature at Madras. In the affidavit filed in support of that

 application, the plaintiffs had stated that they had sought a declaration

 that Defendant no. 2 had a beneficial interest over 6.16% of shares of

 the Indian Company. However, the shares might be alienated. It was

 further stated that substantial part of cause of action arose within the

 jurisdiction of the Court where the registered office of the first defendant

 was located and where it carried on business. Further, the entire subject

 matter of the suit was the shares of the Indian Company, which are held

 by Defendant nos. 3 to 7 and that Defendant nos. 3, 5, 6 and 7 normally

 reside in Chennai. It was further stated that the correspondences 13 between the Plaintiff no. 2 and the Indian Company through Defendant

 no. 10 also took place in Chennai. Claiming on this basis that substantial

 part of cause of action arose within the jurisdiction of the High Court,

 leave to institute the suit was sought. The Single Judge Court granted

 leave. 31) As noted above, the contested defendants filed applications for

 revocation of the order granting leave to the plaintiffs. The Indian

 Company in the affidavit filed in support of A. No. 1387 of 2018, stated

 that Defendant no. 2 is a body corporate situated in Dubai and any

 dispute regarding the same could not be adjudicated by Courts in India.

 It was urged that order granting leave should be revoked on this ground

 itself. It was further stated that there are no disputes with respect to the

 ownership or management or shareholding of the Indian Company. It

 also took the stand that the plaintiffs are neither the shareholders nor the

 Directors of the Indian Company, and, therefore, they had no right to sue

 and consequently, the suit itself is not maintainable. It also averred that

 the disputes between the plaintiffs and Defendant nos. 3 to 7 arose

 around 2013 and the suit had only been filed in the year 2018 and

 consequently, the suit was barred by limitation. Another objection was

 that the plaintiffs had filed the suit when private equity investors had

 shown interest in purchasing shares of the Indian Company and the

 same was an abuse of process of law. Maintainability of the suit was 14 also questioned on the ground that it was barred by Section 89 of the

 Companies Act 2013 and Section 187(C) of the Companies Act 1956. 32) Somewhat similar stand was taken by other contesting defendants

 in support of the prayer for revoking the leave and to rejecting the plaint

 in C.S. No. 33 of 2018. Defendant no. 2 also took the plea that it was

 not interested in seeking the relief claimed in the plaint, viz., Defendant

 no. 2 is the beneficial interest holder of 6.16% of shares of the Indian

 Company. 33) Counter affidavits were filed by the plaintiffs with respect to these

 applications reiterating that they had the locus; that the suit is within the

 period of limitation; that the Court had jurisdiction to adjudicate the

 issues; and that the suit had been filed with bona fide intent. 34) The learned Single Judge dismissed the applications filed by the

 defendants seeking to revoke the leave granted to institute the suit and

 to reject the plaint inter alia holding that the allegations pertaining to

 fraud would have to be decided in the suit. He further observed that

 there were factual issues that were to be gone into and Sections 187C and 89 of the Companies Act, 1956/2013 which may bar the reliefs but

 would not bar the suit. 35) The aforesaid order of the learned Single Judge has been

 reversed by the Division Bench vide common judgment dated August 15 03, 2018. It has allowed the appeals filed by the contesting defendants

 and set aside the common order of the Single Judge, thereby revoking

 the leave granted by the Single Judge. 36) To recapitulate in brief the controversy, the suit filed by the plaintiffs

 was in the nature of a derivative action on behalf of defendant No.2 to

 protect and declare its beneficial interest (i.e. beneficial interest of

 defendant No.2) in the shares available with the Indian company, which

 stand in the name of defendant Nos. 3 to 7. According to the plaintiffs,

 defendant No.2 is the beneficial owner and defendant Nos. 3 to 7, in

 collusion with defendant Nos. 1, 8 and 9, are acting against the interests

 of defendant No.2. In the plaint the averments regarding cause of action

 and Chennai having territorial jurisdiction were mentioned in paragraph

 Nos. 54 and 55, which are as under: Thus on 31.12.2016 it became manifested that the recordal
 of declaration of beneficial interest of the Defendant No.2
 would no longer be caused to be made by those in control of
 Defendant No.2 and its affairs namely Defendant Nos. 3, 4
 and 7 and which hostile action led to not only the denial of
 the recording of beneficial interest of Defendant No.2 but also 16 to deconsolidation with retrospective effect of its accounts
 with Defendant No.11. With the deconsolidation of accounts
 it became clear that a hostile action denying the beneficial
 interest of Defendant No.2 stood taken by Defendant Nos. 3,
 4 and 7. The cause of action further arose on 07.06.2017
 when Defendant No.1 refused to acknowledge the beneficial
 interest in the suit shares. The cause of action further arose
 when Defendant No.1 through Defendant No.10 on
 27.06.2017 once again refused to acknowledge the beneficial
 interest in the suit shares. The cause of action further arose
 on 12.11.2017 and 24.11.2017 when newspaper articles,
 being in public knowledge suggested that the equity of the
 Defendant No.1 is being sold to private equity investors
 through a bidding process and the present investors including
 the Defendant Nos. 3 to 7 along with Defendant Nos. 8 and 9
 are attempting to sell their investments in the Defendant No.1
 and exit the health insurer. The cause of action further arose
 on 21.12.2017 when newspaper articles of the Economic
 Times, being in public knowledge suggested that the five (5)
 companies have been shortlisted to purchase the Defendant
 No.1 and that the floor price if INR 5,500 crore has been put
 for the sale. The article further suggested that the sale of the
 Defendant No.2 will help ETA Trading to exit the Defendant
 No.1, as the beneficial interest of Defendant No.2 has been
 negated and continues to be negated the cause of action has
 and is continuing to arise. 55. Since the registered office of Defendant No.1 is in
 Chennai, the investments made by Defendant No.2 were also
 made in Defendant No.1 in Chennai, this Hon’ble Court will
 exercise jurisdiction over the present dispute. Furthermore,
 the recent correspondence/letters were also exchanged
 between the Plaintiff No.2 and Defendant No.1 and 10 in
 Chennai. Therefore, it is clear that a substantial part of the
 cause of action has arisen within the territorial jurisdiction of
 this Hon’ble Court. Leave is being craved to sue the
 Defendants who are outside the jurisdiction of this Hon’ble
 Court.” 37) The plaintiffs, thus, wanted a declaration to the effect that shares in

 the Indian company which are held by defendant Nos. 3 to 7 in fact 17 belong to defendant No.2 company. Since defendant No.2 did not come

 forward to make the said claim, derivative action was filed by the

 plaintiffs on its behalf to the aforesaid effect. As per the plaintiffs, the

 High Court of Madras, at Chennai, had the jurisdiction to entertain the

 same inasmuch as: (a) Registered Office of the Indian company is in

 Chennai; (b) the investments made by defendant No.2 were made in the

 Indian company in Chennai; and (c) substantial part of cause of action,

 as reflected in the correspondence/letters exchanged between plaintiff

 No.2 and defendant Nos. 1 and 10 arose in Chennai. 38) The contesting defendants questioned the territorial jurisdiction of

 the Madras High Court to entertain the said suit on the ground that no

 cause of action available to the plaintiffs to maintain the suit arose within

 the jurisdiction of the said Court. In substance, the plaintiffs were

 attempting to resolve the dispute between the shareholders of the

 company though all these shareholders are residents and nationals of

 Dubai. Moreover, they are claiming that though shares are in the names

 of defendants Nos. 3 to 7, it is defendant No.2 which has the beneficial

 interest therein and even defendant No.2 is a foreign entity which is

 covered by the foreign law. Likewise, the inter se relationship between

 defendant No.2 and the plaintiffs is also covered by the foreign law. It

 was additionally contended that the claims made by the plaintiffs are not

 enforceable even under the Companies Act, 1956 or the Companies Act, 18 2013. As far as inter se disputes between the plaintiffs and the

 contesting defendants, who are all shareholders of defendant No.2, are

 concerned, they have arisen in Dubai which is outside the territorial

 jurisdiction of Chennai. 39) M/s. C.A. Sundaram, Neeraj Kishan Kaul, V. Giri and C.U. Singh,

 learned senior counsel appeared for the plaintiffs. In substance, their

 argument was that the learned Single Judge of the Madras High Court

 had rightly allowed the application for leave to file the suit after satisfying

 that the Court at Chennai had the territorial jurisdiction to entertain such

 a suit which was a derivative action taken out by the plaintiffs on behalf

 of defendant No.2. It was highlighted that even if defendant No.2 was a

 Dubai company, of which plaintiffs and defendant Nos. 3 to 7 were the

 shareholders, dispute was in respect of shares in defendant No.1 which

 was an Indian company having its Registered Office in Chennai.

 Moreover, defendant Nos. 3 to 7 were also having their residence in

 Chennai even though they are NRIs residing in Dubai. Attention of this

 Court was specifically drawn to the following discussion in the order of

 the learned Single Judge, which was adopted as their arguments in

 support of the plea that the suit was validly instituted in Chennai: Whether the third, fourth and seventh defendants on the one
hand and the second defendant on the other hand have
made declarations in accordance with the provisions of either Section 187C or Section 89 of the Companies Act 1956 or
2013 are facts to the exclusive knowledge of the first,
second, third, fourth and seventh defendants and also the
eighth defendant. The plaintiffs could never have had access
to the records of the first defendant. The queries raised in
the pre-suit notices have not been answered. Consequently,
they have sought a declaration only against the first
defendant. This declaration is sought because in Dubai, the
third, fourth and seventh defendants had made similar
declarations and in the plaint, the plaintiffs have stated that
they believed that similar declarations had been made in the
books of the first defendant. This statement of the plaintiffs
has to be tested further through oral and documentary
evidence. Consequently, I am not in agreement with this
contention raised by the defendants. Trial is the answer to
settle facts. At this stage, the plaint averments hold the sway
and a reading makes it obvious that the first defendant has to
open up its records for scrutiny, and that can be done only
during trial. xx xx xx 139. To sum up, the allegations raised in the plaint have to
be examined at Chennai since, the first defendant is
registered in Chennai. During its pre-incorporation,
incorporation and post corporation stages, substantial
amounts of money had flowed to it. It is only with
examination of the books of the first defendant that the
source of the funds can be determined. This is because the
third to seventh defendants, who are said to have benefited
by allotment of shares in view of the flow of funds have
denied the contention of the plaintiffs. The eighth, ninth and
tenth defendants, who were in management have not filed
any affidavit disclosing facts to their knowledge. The
eleventh and twelth defendants have chosen not to
participate in these proceedings. The first, third, eighth, ninth
and tenth defendants are in Chennai. They are privity to the
relevant records and to the facts in issue in this case. I hold
that since the plaint discloses cause of action, and
substantial cause of action had arisen in Chennai, and since
the suit is nor barred by any statute, the issues raised in the
suit can be determined in this Court and by this Court. 140. Moreover, the eighth, ninth and tenth defendants, who
were in management of the first and second defendants are
residents at Chennai and it would be to their convenience if
the suit is litigated in Chennai. Their evidence would be
crucial. In the plaint, fraud has been alleged against them
and they will have to withstand cross examination on such
specific aspects. 141. The third defendant, who appears to fight his own
cause and also the cause of the second defendant, has his
residence at Chennai. xx xx xx 143. The fifth and sixth defendants are the sons of the third
defendant. They have residence in Chennai, and if required
to tender evidence, they would not be inconvenienced. The
seventh defendant is also a resident of Chennai. These
defendants also appear to tag the line of the third defendant,
and consequently they would never be prejudiced by the suit
being continued in Chennai. 144. The main evidence on behalf of the defendants would
 be on behalf of the first defendant and by the third defendant
 and by the eighth, ninth and tenth defendants. The records
 of the first defendant are in Chennai. These defendants are
 all in Chennai. The cause of action arose within Chennai. In
 view of all these reasons, I hold that the applications seeking
 revocation of the leave have to be dismissed.” 40) Attention of this Court was also drawn to the averments made in

 various paragraphs of the plaint as well as documents annexed with the

 plaint which, according to them, were taken note of by the learned

 Single Judge in forming the opinion about the jurisdiction. It was

 submitted that the Division Bench has misdirected itself by ignoring the

 aforesaid vital discussion by the Single Judge and committed an error in

 treating it to be a dispute between the shareholders of defendant No.2.

 It was specifically argued that paragraph 54 of the plaint would reflect

 that the dispute raised by the plaintiffs pertained to the shares in

 defendant No.1/Indian company, which would mean that situs of the

 shares, namely, the place where company is located, would be the

 determinative factor, as held in Vodafone International Holdings BV v.

 Union of India and Another1 in the following words: Jagrati Trade Services P. Ltd. and Others2

 "38. The plaintiffs as shareholders of the proforma defendant
 neither could have initiated an arbitration proceeding in their
 own name, nor the said plaintiffs would be entitled to initiate
 arbitration proceedings and claim any relief on behalf of the
 company. No shareholder can say that because the
 company is a party to the arbitration agreement, he should be

2 (2016) 195 Comp Cas 434 (Cal) 24 allowed to initiate arbitration proceedings and claim any relief
 in the said proceeding. It is the company who alone can
 initiate and/or defend such proceeding. A third party is no
 way concerned with the inter se disputes between the
 shareholders of the company. However if the said third party
 is a party to a fraud in an action in which a decree or an
 award is passed affecting the valuable right of the company
 and is prejudicial to the interest of the company, the
 shareholder can sue the miscreant directors and the persons
 and/or entities connected with the fraud on behalf of himself
 and other shareholders and in the name of the company to
 prevent any wrong being perpetrated on the company. In
 such a situation, the complainant-shareholder would be
 seeking to enforce a cause of action which is available and
 belongs to the company and not to the shareholder
 personally. The essential purpose of such an action is to
 remedy a wrong done to the company and if the suit
 ultimately succeeds, the judgment is given in favour of the
 company, so that the complainant-shareholder obtains no
 direct personal benefit therefrom.” (ii) Nirad Amilal Mehta v. Genelec Limited & Others3

 "Regarding derivative action by a shareholder. 6. The sale of the suit property was effected in the name of
 defendant No.1 company by defendant Nos. 2, 3 and 4 in the
 capacity as its directors. It is alleged that the sale being
 contrary to the provisions to section 293 of the Companies
 Act is void. If the said is void, the person aggrieved is the
 company. The suit should therefore normally be filed by the
 company for setting aside the alienation. The plaintiff who is
 only a shareholder of the company would not normally have a
 right to file a suit on behalf of the company as the person
 aggrieved is the company and not a shareholder. More than
 one and a half century ago, in (Foss v. Harbottle), (1843) 2
 Hare 461, the Court laid down the rule that normally an
 individual shareholder would not be entitled to bring an action
 for a wrong allegedly done to the company. It is the company
 who alone can bring an action for a wrong done to it. The
 rule however has been subjected to more than one
 exceptions. In ( B.B.N. (UK) Limited v. Janardan Mohandas 3 (2008) 6 Bom CR 499 25 Rajan Pillai), 1993 (3) Bom. C.R. 228, this Court while
 upholding the rule that it is the company who is entitled to
 maintain an action for wrong allegedly done to it and a
 shareholder has no locus standi to maintain the suit, affirmed
 one of the exceptions to the aforesaid rule that where a
 shareholder can show that the wrong doers are in control of
 the defendant company and hence the company would be
 unable to maintain the action, he can maintain an action.”

 It was submitted that the present case is covered by the exception

 carved out by the Calcutta and Bombay High Courts in the aforesaid

 judgments. 42) M/s. Gopal Subramanium, Mukul Rohatgi, Dr. Abhishek Manu

 Singhvi and Shyam Divan, learned senior counsel appeared for

 defendant Nos.1, 2, 3 and 4 respectively. They strongly refuted the

 aforesaid submissions of the appellants/plaintiffs and submitted that the

 approach of the Division Bench of the High Court was without any

 blemish which warranted imprimatur by this Court as well. They

 paraphrased their submissions in the following manner: Section 89(1) and (2) are as under: Defendant Nos. 3,4 and 7 are also share holders in Defendant No. 2 31 Company. They hold 66% shares in Defendant no. 2 Company. In this

 way, plaintiffs on the one hand hold 34% of the shares in Defendant No.

 2 Company, whereas Defendant Nos. 3, 4 and 7 have share holding of

 66%. There are certain disputes between these two groups of share

 holders insofar as affairs of Defendant No. 2 are concerned. 45) Defendant Nos. 3 to 7 are also subscribers to the share capital of

 Defendant No. 1/Indian Company. It is to the extent of approximately

 6.16% of the share holding of the Indian Company when all the shares

 held by Defendant Nos. 3 to 7 are put together. According to the

 plaintiffs, these shares actually belonged to Defendant No. 2 which has

 the beneficial interest therein. It is for this reason, the plaintiffs filed suit

 for declaration, as a derivative action on behalf of Defendant No. 2,

 purportedly to protect and declare the beneficial interest in the shares

 available to Defendant no. 1 standing in the name of Defendant Nos. 3

 to 7. 46) Since Defendant No. 1 is an Indian Company incorporated in the

 Indian laws having its registered office at Chennai, in the first blush,

 arguments of the plaintiff may appear to be sound that for such a

 declaration the suit can be filed in Chennai. However, on going through

 the real dispute between the parties, which emerges out of the plaintiff

 as well, it would become manifest that the dispute between the plaintiffs 32 on the one hand and Defendant Nos. 3 to 7 on the other hand pertains

 to the affairs of the Defendant no. 2 Company and in respect of which

 cause of action has not arisen in Chennai and such a dispute has to be

 sorted out by the parties between themselves by filing appropriate

 proceedings in Dubai, UAE only. 47) From the material facts in this behalf, as mentioned in the plaint

 itself, specifically in paragraphs 54 and 55 of the plaint, while making the

 averments qua the cause of action and territorial jurisdiction, it becomes

 apparent that the plaintiffs got aggrieved by the draft Consolidated

 Financial Statement of Defendant No. 11 (which is again a Dubai

 company and a parent company) and this statement records

 deconsolidation of its account with those of Defendant No. 2. The real

 dispute, thus, is whether Defendant Nos. 3 to 7 in whose name shares

 to the extent of 6.16% of Indian Company stand, are the real owners or

 it is Defendant no. 2 Company which has the beneficial interest in the

 said shares. Though, the plaintiffs claim beneficial interest of Defendant

 No. 2, Defendant Nos. 3 to 7 deny the same. Interestingly, even

 Defendant No. 2 Company, whose beneficial interest in these shares is

 claimed by the plaintiffs, refutes such a claim of the plaintiffs. Thus, in

 reality, it is the dispute between the plaintiffs and Defendant nos. 3 to 7

 who are all residents of Dubai. Even Defendant No. 2 whose beneficial

 interest is claimed by the plaintiffs is a Company incorporated in Dubai, 33 UAE. Merely, because the dispute is about those shares which are

 issued by Indian Company would not lead to the conclusion that cause

 of action has arisen in India. It is obvious that insofar as Defendant No.

 1/Indian Company is concerned it has nothing to do with the dispute.

 The relief of declaration which is sought is that Defendant Nos. 3 to 7

 are not the real owners of such shares and its actual/beneficial owner is

 Defendant No. 2. Such a dispute would not bring jurisdiction of Chennai

 courts simply because Defendant No. 1/Indian Company has its

 registered office in Chennai. Even if it is presumed that the plaintiffs

 ultimately succeed in their action, when brought in a competent court in

 Dubai, and a declaration of the aforesaid nature is given by the said

 court, Defendant No. 1 can always act thereupon. 48) Mr. Gopal Subramanium, had referred to the provisions of Section

 89(1) and (8) of the Companies Act, 2013 . As per sub-section (1) of Section 89 , a person whose name is entered in the register of Members

 of the Company as the holders of shares in that Company but does not

 hold beneficial interest in such shares, he shall make declaration within

 the prescribed time to the Company specifying the name and address of

 the person who hold the beneficial interest. Sub-section (8) provides

 that if such a declaration is not made right in this behalf cannot be

 enforced by other person claiming through the beneficial owner. Prima

 facie, it appears that court in India on the application of the aforesaid 34 provision would not be in a position to give any relief to the plaintiffs in

 the instant suit. The High Court has discussed in detail the nature of

 derivative action as well as the meaning that is to be ascribed to the

 term ‘beneficial interest’. It is rightly pointed out that the suit for

 derivative action is an exception to the general principle of locus. It can

 be claimed only in a particular situation. Such a situation has to be seen

 contextually from the point of view of the entity, on whose behalf the suit

 is filed. Incidentally, the inter se relationship between the plaintiffs and

 the beneficial owner, which may be a company is also of relevance. It

 may involve a case of deceit, fraud, inability or incapacity. However, the

 fundamental factor to be considered is the relationship between the

 plaintiff and the party, which the plaintiff seeks to represent. 49) The term ‘Beneficial interest’ is defined under Section 3 of the

 Indian Trust Act, 1882 which is reproduced hereunder: 4 (1990) 1 FC 199 36 53) While considering the territorial jurisdiction over a suit initiated to

 protect the beneficial interest, the issue qua the existence of such an

 interest can only be decided on the condition that the same is amenable

 to such a jurisdiction. Defendant no. 2 is admittedly not amenable to the

 jurisdiction of Madras High Court. 54) The High Court in the impugned judgment has also discussed in

 detail the meaning and scope of ‘cause of action’ by referring to various

 judgments including A.B.C. Laminart (Pvt.) Ltd. and Another vs. A.P.

 Agencies, Salem . It has also considered the scope of Clause 12 of the

 Letters Patent which is peculiar to Madras High Court, where a leave is

 required to be obtained when part of cause of action arises within the

 territorial jurisdiction of the said court. In such a situation, as rightly

 contended by Mr. Mukul Rohatgi, the principles of forum convenience

 would become applicable as laid down in the case of Kusum Ingots

 and Alloys Ltd. vs. Union of India and Another5 . We find that court in

 Dubai would be more convenient forum to decide the dispute between

 the parties who are residents of Dubai and which revolves around

 Defendant no. 2, again a Company registered and situate in Dubai. 55) The High Court also appears to be right in holding that the relief

 sought for against Indian Company, at best, is a consequential one and

 cannot give a cause of action. Even Defendant no. 2 cannot seek such

5 (2004) 6 SCC 254 37 a relief without resolving its dispute as against Defendant nos. 3 to 7.

 Such a dispute can only be dealt with by competent forum in Dubai as

 per the law prevailing in Dubai, UAE. 56) We would also like to reproduce the following discussion from the

 impugned judgment, with which we concur: "6.11 When a dispute arose against the company, which
 issued the shares, then the situs would be its registered
 office. However, when the dispute is between the
 shareholder and the company with respect to the shares held
 in another, the mere existence of registered office of the
 subsequent company is not a factor to clothe jurisdiction. In
 this connection, it is apposite to refer the following
 paragraphs of the judgment of the Apex Court in R.
 Viswanathan and others v. Rukn-Ul-Mulk Syed Abdul Wajid
 Since Deceased and others (Air 1963 Supreme Court 1).

 “Per J.C. Shah, J. (Majority) : The situs of the shares in
 any question between the Company and the holders
 thereof was the registered office of the Company in
 Bellary (outside the State of Mysore), but the share
 certificates must, on the case of the plaintiffs as set out
 in the plaint, be deemed to be with the executors and
 compliance with the decree, if any, passed against the
 executors for an order of retransfer could be obtained
 under the Code of Civil Procedure (see Order 21, Rules
 31 and 32 Mysore Civil Procedure Code). There is no
 rule of private international law recognised by the courts
 in India which renders the Bangalore Court incompetent
 to grant a decree directing retransfer of the shares
 merely because the shares have a situs in a dispute
 between the Company and the shareholders outside the
 jurisdiction of the foreign court: Counsel for the plaintiffs
 submitted that the Mysore Court was incompetent to
 deliver an effective judgment in respect of the shares.
 But by personal compliance with an order for retransfer
 judgment in favour of the plaintiffs could be rendered
 effective. Per Hidayatullah, J (Minority) : It only remains to
 consider the argument in relation to the shares of the
 Indian Sugars and Refineries Ltd. It was contended that
 the shares must be deemed to be situated where they
 could be effectively dealt with and that was Madras,
 where the Head Office of the Company was situated.
 Learned counsel relied upon some English cases in
 support of his contention. It is not necessary to refer to
 those cases. The situs of shares between the Company
 and the shareholders is undoubtedly in the country
 where the business is situated. But in a dispute between
 rival claimants both within the jurisdiction of a court over
 shares the court has jurisdiction over the parties and the
 share scrips which are before the court. The Mysore
 court was in this position. Between the rival claimants
 the Mysore High Court could order the share scrips to
 be handed over to the successful party and if necessary
 could order transfer of the shares between them and
 enforce that order by the coercive process of the law. It
 would be a different matter if the Company refused to
 register the transfer and a different question might then
 have arisen; but we are told that the Company has
 obeyed the decision and accepted the executors as the
 shareholders. The judgment of the Mysore courts on the
 ownership of the shares is ancillary to the main
 decision. It is therefore not necessary for me to consider
 the argument of Mr Desai that jurisdiction attaches on
 the principle of effectiveness propounded by Dicey, but
 which has been criticised by the present editors of his
 book and by Cheshire. In my opinion, this controversy
 does not arise in this case, which must be decided on
 the plain words of Section 13 of the Code of Civil
 Procedure.”

6.12 Keeping in view of the abovesaid principles of law,let us
consider the issues raised before us. Admittedly, the
defendant no. 2 is a foreign entity governed by the laws of
Dubai. The Plaintiffs are its shareholders. Therefore, any
dispute between them will have to be resolved under the laws
of Dubai. Hence, the contention of the learned Senior
Counsel appearing for the plaintiffs that they are stepping into
the shoes of the defendant no. 2 seeking a relief against the
defendant no. 1 cannot be countenanced. This is also for the 39 reason that there must be declaration in clear terms qua the
status of a beneficial interest holder before seeking a relief
against the defendant no. 1. More so, when defendant no. 2
itself denies it. 6.13 In the case on hand, the fundamental and core facts
are not in dispute. They are with respect to the consolidation
and deconsolidation of defendant No. 2 by the defendant No. 11. Similarly a decision of the general body of a ETA Group,
the Board of Directors and the participation of the plaintiffs in
that are also not in dispute. These undisputed happenings
lead to the draft financial statement of the defendant No. 11.
This draft financial statement confirms two things. One is
with respect to the deconsolidation and the other is removal
of status over the shares held by the individuals. The
decision was to implement it with retrospective effect from
10.01.2014. It is an admitted case that the decision of the
ETA Group and the draft financial statement of defendant No.
11 would make the trustees of the holders f the respective
shares involving beneficial interest as absolute owners. The
plaintiffs may have grievance over this, but their remedy will
lie elsewhere. That is the reason why one of the plaintiffs
after issuing notice on behalf of the defendant No. 11 to
defendant No. 1, has chosen to file the suit along with the
other in the status of shareholders. May be it is also for the
reason that the defendant No. 11 cannot wriggle out of the
decision of ETA Group followed by its draft financial
statement. If we see the cause of action as recorded above,
it is abundantly clear that what has triggered the present suit
is the aforesaid facts. 6.14 The decision of the ETA Group, which consists of
numerous entities, applies to every shareholder of the Group.
Accordingly, the status of a registered owner would get
transferred into one of absolute ownership. Therefore, even
if we go by the averments in the plaint while eschewing the
defence of the defendant No. 2, no relief can be claimed
before this Court. It is an indirect way of challenging the
decision of the ETA Group, in which, the plaintiffs were also
parties. Any adjudication on this though indirectly, will have a
serious spiralling effect, as settled things would get unsettled
for the reason that it might have an adverse impact on other
shareholders of other entities coming under the umbrella of
the ETA Group. The logic and rationale behind the decision 40 of a foreign entity cannot be adjudicated here. Be that as it
 may, certainly the remedy lies elsewhere. We should also
 keep in mind the defendants 2 and 11 are admittedly situated
 outside the jurisdiction of the Court though the plaintiffs
 contend that defendants 3 to 7, despite being non resident
 Indians are permanent residents of Chennai. This is nothing
 but an attempt to review the decision made already by the
 ETA Group as acknowledged by the defendant No. 11 in the
 draft financial statement. After all, the relief that is sought
 against the defendant No. 1 is a mere consequential one.
 When once the plaintiffs succeed against defendant Nos. 2 to
 7 then defendant No. 1 is bound to give effect to it. For doing
 so, the remedy for the plaintiffs against defendants Nos. 2 to
 7 lies elsewhere.” 57) As a consequence, we do not find any merit in these appeals

 which are, accordingly, dismissed. .............................................J.
 (A.K. SIKRI)

 .............................................J.
 (ASHOK BHUSHAN)
NEW DELHI; NOVEMBER 26, 2018.