Per 
Mr.P.N.Kashalkar,Honble Presiding Judicial Member 1)       Heard Mr.V.X.Dsilva, Adv. for the complainant and Mr.S.B.Prabhavalkar, Adv. for the O.P. The complainant 
has filed this complaint alleging deficiency in service on the part of Saraswat 
Bank in respect of DEMAT account he had opened with it. According to the 
complainant, the O.P. did not verify signatures on delivery instruction slips 
and released the shares. He had not given instructions to the bank to accept 
delivery instructions slips singed by anybody and to release the shares. The 
delivery instruction slips tendered in the bank were forged and fabricated. The 
telephone number appearing on those slips did not belong to him or to his 
attorney. So, it is the grievance of the complainant that without any lawful 
authority from the complainant, the O.P. bank released the shares from the DEMAT 
account. The bank had not taken reasonable diligence and had not shown ordinary 
prudence while releasing shares of the complainant. Hence, bank is guilty of 
deficiency in service. The complainant or his attorney had not signed delivery 
instruction slips for releasing shares. So, bank had clearly committed 
deficiency in service and thereby he suffered loss of Rs.28,12,876/- and claimed 
interest at the rate of 18% per annum besides that amount from 20/4/2004. 2)       Before admission notice 
was issued and we heard Mr.S.B.Prabhavalkar, Adv. for the O.P./Bank. According 
to Mr.Prabhavalkar, there is delay of 9 months and 29 days in filing the 
complaint. The delay is not liable to be condoned easily. In the condonation of 
delay application filed subsequently (M.A.No.2247/2008) Ramchandra Monappa 
Nayak, C.A. filed affidavit and stated that complainant was Non Resident Indian 
and he was required to go to U.S.A. in connection with his employment. He could 
not follow up matter with the O.P. personally hence he had instructed C.A. to 
file consumer complaint. Because of hectic activities of the complainant, the 
delay occurred and it should be condoned. However, according to Adv. 
Prabhavalkar, this ground is a sweeping statement made by complainant when 
complaint is filed through C.A. Ramchandra Nayak. According to Mr.Prabhavalkar, 
the excuse put forth by the complainant seeking condonation of delay is lame 
excuse and on the basis of simple affidavit of Mr.Ramchandra Nayak, delay should 
not be condoned. Moreover, Shri Prabhavalkar also brought to our notice the fact 
that complainant Shri Ninad Lokre had opened DEMAT account with the Saraswat 
Bank in 2001 and since he was N.R.I. he has subsequently given P.A.O to his 
brother Mr.Sameer Lokre authorizing him to operate his DEMAT account. The power 
of attorney is registered with the O.P./Bank at registration No.437 and said 
Sameer Lokre has transferred and sold 4260 shares of I-Flex solutions between 
July-2003 to April-2004. Copies of all delivery instruction slips were duly 
signed by Mr.Sameer Lokre on behalf of the complainant. Therefore, the Bank 
pleaded that there was no substance in the complaint and complaint should be 
dismissed summarily. 3)       We are finding that delay 
of 9 months and 29 days is not properly explained by the complainant though at 
our instance he had filed M.A.No.2247/2008 for condonation of delay. Virtually, 
there is no just and sufficient cause made out by the complainant to induce us 
to condone the delay. The complaint as well as M.A. for condonation of delay has 
been filed by C.A. of the complainant by name Ramchandra M.Nayak. When authority 
was given by the complainant to Mr.Nayak to file consumer complaint, it doesnt 
stand to reason that he should file consumer complaint so belatedly. Thus, we 
are not inclined to condone the delay. Consequently, we reject M.A.No.2247/2008 
seeking condonation of delay. 4)       Even on merits, Mr.Ninad 
Lokre complainant had given power of attorney to operate his DEMAT account 
maintained in Saraswat Bank in favour of his brother Mr.Sameer Anil Lokre of 
Goregaon (West) Mumbai. That power of attorney was registered with the Saraswat 
Bank and acting upon with this power of attorney Mr.Sameer Lokre was operating 
the DEMAT account and he ultimately committed fraud and forgery to deceive his 
brother. It has come in the complaint itself that he found that in the year 
March-2005 DEMAT showed that there was nil balance of shares. He had already 
filed prosecution against his brother and criminal cases are pending in the 
Court of Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate against one Mandar Kayande and 
his wife who were associates of Mr.Sameer Lokre and others. It would mean that 
the fraud and forgery was committed by Mr.Sameer Lokre and his associates taking 
the advantage of the fact that complainant was Non Resident Indian and not 
available in India and he had authorised Mr.Sameer Lokre to operate DEMAT 
account by giving power of attorney.  In the circumstances, even on merit ex 
facie the complainant had no case against Saraswat Bank. Hence, there is no 
deficiency in service on the part of Saraswat Bank/O.P. ex facie to admit the 
complaint. Hence, we are inclined to pass following order. O R D E R 1)                

M.A.No.2247/2008 which for condonation of delay is rejected. 2)                
Complaint 
stands summarily dismissed. 3)                
No order as 
to costs. 4)                
Copies of 
this order be sent to the parties free of cost. ( Smt.S.P.Lale )                   
       (P.N.Kashalkar )             
 

          Member      
               Presiding Judicial Member             
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Malve/-