% 24.04.2023 1. Pursuant to the previous order dated 13th February, 2023, this Court
has been informed that the testimony of the complainant has not been
recorded as yet considering the co-accused Bunty Kumar is absconding and
the matter has now been listed on 01st July, 2023 for outcome of proceedings
under Section 82 Cr.P.C. 2. Notwithstanding the same, learned counsel for the petitioner seeks to
contend that they have been falsely implicated in the matter and he has
nothing to do with Bunty, his brother who allegedly had some transactions
with the complainant. 3. He has drawn attention to the allegations made in the FIR by the
complainant stating that she had given some monies to both the petitioners
and Bunty in relation to potential land transactions. However, he has drawn
attention to a notice under Section 91 Cr.P.C dated 19th February, 2020,
where on a request by the IO to the complainant to provide original
agreement papers for which this money had been given and any other
relevant documents, the complainant has merely stated that she doesn't want Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ANISH DAYAL to produce them but she will produce them before the Court. This according
to the petitioner supports their contention that there was no land transaction
between the complainant and the Bunty. Instead due to some other money
transaction between petitioner and Bunty, this false complaint has been filed
and the petitioner has been roped in considering that the Bunty was not
traceable. He has further drawn attention to the statement recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C. of one Dilip Kumar, the only independent witness who
has stated that there was an agreement between the complainant and Bunty
relating to money transaction of which he was a witness but he did not know
where Bunty is and he has no news of him. 4. Further, he has also adverted to the issue raised by the State regarding
alleged threats to the complainant as recorded in the said FIR, and drawn
attention to the Status Report filed by the IO. It is stated therein, upon
inquires at the house where such incident was alleged to have happened, that
it was found that the petitioner resides on rent and that whereabouts of Bunty
was not known. Also local inquires revealed nothing since the neighbours
denied any incident of alleged confinement or assault. Further, no call had
been made to the police or any MLC recorded in regard to that incident as
alleged by the complainant. 5. Learned APP has refuted these allegations and states that since the
complainant is a senior citizen and her testimony is yet to be recorded and
their allegations of threat and intimidation earlier, bail cannot be granted at
this stage. Moreover, the fact that the petitioner and the Bunty are both daily
wagers and there is no question of loan being taken from them and that
Bunty is absconding. 6. Be that as it may, the petitioner has been in custody since September,
2022 and the matter relates to allegations under Section 420 IPC. This issue
is essentially at the stage of trial. As regards allegations made by the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ANISH DAYAL complainant, these aspects would have to be proved during trial. 7. Learned counsel for the petitioner states that the petitioner is not
aware where the Bunty is and he is not traceable since the complaint was
filed. 8. In light of the above, and that the trial in the matter is likely to take
some time, and it would not be prudent to keep the petitioner behind bars for
an indefinite period, this Court finds it to be a fit case for grant of bail to the
petitioner in FIR 115/2020 PS Ranhola. Consequently, the petitioner is
directed to be released on bail on furnishing a personal bond in the sum of
Rs. 25,000/- with one surety of the like amount subject to the satisfaction of
the Ld. Trial Court, further subject to the following conditions: 9. Needless to state, but any observation touching the merits of the case
is purely for the purposes of deciding the question of grant of bail and shall
not be construed as an expression on merits of the matter. 10. Copy of the order be sent to the Jail Superintendent for information
and necessary compliance. 11. Accordingly, the petition is disposed of. Pending applications (if any)
are disposed of as infructuous. 12. Copy of the order be given dasti under the Signature of the Court
Master. 13. Order be uploaded on the website of this Court. ANISH DAYAL, J
APRIL 24, 2023/RK Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ANISH DAYAL