1. This application has been filed under section 439 of the
Code of Criminal Procedure for regular bail in connection with
the FIR being I C.R. No. 11191015211324 of 2021 registered
with Nikol Police Station, Ahmedabad, for offences punishable
under sections 306 , 384 , 387 , 114 of Indian Penal Code and
under sections 5 , 33(2) , 42 of the Gujarat Money Lenders Act,
2011. 2. Mr. Rahul Dholakia, learned advocate for the petitioner
submitted that the allegation against the present petitioner is
of demanding the repayment of the loan amount alongwith
interest, and thus stated that, such kind of demanding the
money would not amount to extortion. Learned advocate for
the petitioner submitted that it was a contractual agreement
which the deceased was bound to follow and thus stated that
it could not be a case of any instigation. It was, therefore,
prayed that the present application may be allowed and the
petitioner herein may be released on regular bail. R/CR.MA/3275/2022 ORDER DATED: 02/03/2022 3. Mr. Zabuawala, learned advocate states that he has
instructions to appear for the original complainant; let his
vakalatnama be accepted. He has filed the affidavit of the
complainant to object the bail application stating that the
complaint was drafted by the deceased which should be
considered as dying declaration and addressing the Nikol
Police Station wherein it is stated that the accused had asked
the deceased to sign the blank cheques and thus noted in the
complaint that because of threat of the accused of kidnapping
him and the family members and to do away with him and
under such apprehension he states that the situation was
created for him to forcefully leave the place and then decided
to leave for Surat. 4. Learned APP alongwith Mr. Zabuawala, learned advocate
submitted that the wife of the deceased had also stated before
the police that the accused was forcing her husband to
execute the document of the property in their favour, and
because of the constant atrocious corceive approach of the
accused the deceased had committed suicide by hanging
himself at the hook of ceiling fan, and therefore, it was urged
that no discretion may be exercised in favour of the petitioner. 5. Heard learned advocates on both the sides and perused
the material on record. The case appears, that the deceased
had taken loan against the payment of interest. The allegation
is that the accused were demanding money, the complaint
which the deceased proposed to give before the Nikol Police
Station, which, learned advocate Mr. Zabuawala relied on as
dying declaration also reflects the fact that the accused had Page 2 of 4 Downloaded on : Wed Mar 02 23:01:40 IST 2022 R/CR.MA/3275/2022 ORDER DATED: 02/03/2022

asked for cheque from the deceased. Merely demanding the
repayment of the loan amount alongwith interest would not
amount to any illegal act to term it as an harassment, and it
appears that, as the deceased failed to repay the loan amount
alongwith interest, he took the last step, but, as shown that he
had even got the complaint drafted to be lodged before Nikol
Police Station, and therefore, the deceased had an option to
file case against the accused. Considering the fact that the
allegation against the petitioner is of demanding the loan
money which was their legitimate claim and when the
deceased had recourse to file the complaint against the
alleged person, prima facie, considering the allegation and the
circumstances as brought to the notice of the court, it was not
a case of constant harassment or threat or instigation to
consider it as abetment for committing the suicide. In view of
the aforesaid facts and circumstances of the case, this Court is
of the opinion that the discretion could be exercised in favour
of the petitioner to enlarge him on bail. 6. Hence, the present application is allowed. The petitioner
is ordered to be released on regular bail in connection with FIR
being I C.R. No. 11191015211324 of 2021 registered with
Nikol Police Station, Ahmedabad, on executing a personal
bond of Rs.15,000/- (Rupees Fifteen Thousand only) with one
surety of the like amount to the satisfaction of the trial Court
and subject to the conditions that he shall; [a] not take undue advantage of liberty or misuse liberty;
[b] not act in a manner injurious to the interest of the
prosecution; [c] surrender passport, if any, to the lower court within a Page 3 of 4 Downloaded on : Wed Mar 02 23:01:40 IST 2022 R/CR.MA/3275/2022 ORDER DATED: 02/03/2022

week; [d] not leave India without prior permission of the concerned
trial court; [e] furnish the present address of residence to the
Investigating Officer and also to the Court at the time of
execution of the bond and shall not change the residence
without prior permission of the concerned trial court; 7. The authorities shall adhere to its own Circular relating to
COVID-19 and, thereafter, will release the petitioner only if he
is not required in connection with any other offence for the
time being. If breach of any of the above conditions is
committed, the Sessions Judge concerned will be free to issue
warrant or take appropriate action in the matter. Bail bond to
be executed before the lower Court having jurisdiction to try
the case. 8. Rule is made absolute to the aforesaid extent. Direct
service is permitted. Registry to communicate this order to the
concerned Court/authority by Fax or Email forthwith. (GITA GOPI,J)
A.M.A. SAIYED Page 4 of 4 Downloaded on : Wed Mar 02 23:01:40 IST 2022