PER S. RIFAUR RAHMAN (AM) 1. This appeal is filed by the revenue against order of the Learned

 Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals), National Faceless Appeal Centre,

 Delhi [hereinafter in short "Ld.CIT(A)"] dated 22.05.2022 for the

 A.Y.2015-16. ITA NO.1846/MUM/2022 (A.Y: 2015-16)
 Gauri Tandon 2. Brief facts of the case are, assessee filed her return of income on

07.01.2016 declaring total income at ₹.22,57,43,956/-. The case was

selected for limited scrutiny under CASS for the Large Deduction u/s.54B,

54C, 54D, 54G, 54GA, Large Value Transactions, Large Value of

Commodity Exchange transactions, Large long term capital gains and High

ratio of refund to TDS. Accordingly, notices 143(2) and 142(1) of Income- tax Act, 1961 (in short "Act") were issued and served on the assessee. In

response, authorised representative of the assessee attended and filed

relevant information as called for. 3. Further, a reference was made u/s 90 of the Act under Indo

Singapore DTAA to the FT & TR on 21.12.2017. In response, several

clarifications in regard to the information sought were sent by the FT &

TR on various dates as mentioned in the Assessment Order and major

informations are not received by the Assessing Officer till completion of

the Assessment Order. Assessing Officer also collected third party

information u/s. 133(6) of the Act from Jasper Infotech Ltd, HDFC Bank

and Bombay Stock Exchange. All the parties responded and the

informations were taken on record. ITA NO.1846/MUM/2022 (A.Y: 2015-16)
 Gauri Tandon 4. The assessee is an individual with high volume of investments in

shares. During the assessment proceedings, Assessing Officer observed

that the assessee purchased 8400 ordinary shares of M/s Accelyst PTE

Limited (Singapore Company) in F.Y 2011-12 at the cost of $1 per share. Subsequently, on 11.02.2014 the 8400 shares were further sub-divided

into 8400000 ordinary shares in the F.Y 2013-14. As per share certificate

No. 15 dated 11.02.2014 the share valuation of each share was $4.17 as

per the valuation report by Corporate Professionals dated 22.12.2017. These shares were then sold to Jasper Infotech Ltd. at $3,49,72,754 as

per the Share Purchase Agreement dated 11.03.2015. Accordingly,

assessee calculated a long term capital gain of ₹.218,55,80,721. 5. The Assessing Officer observed that assessee purchased 6,26,125

shares of Tech Mahindra Ltd. [TML] and 7,34,875 shares of HCL

technology [HCLT] on 17th and 18th March, 2015. The shares of TML

underwent a split in a ratio of 1:2 and thus, the total shares of TML in the

assessee's possession as on 18th March were 12,52,250. The shares of

HCLT and TML further issued a bonus in the ratio 1:1. Accordingly,

assessee received 7,34,875 more shares of HCLT as bonus and 12,52,250

more shares of TML. The total shares in the possession of the assessee

are as per below table: - 6. The assesse sold the original shares of HCLT and TML on the

19.03.2015, 20.03.2015 and 23.03.2015 by adopting the value of shares

of original shares held by the assessee and retained the bonus shares at

NIL value. Therefore, assessee declared loss in these transactions. Assessing Officer observed that the loss of ₹.171.68 crores was set off by

the assessee with long term capital gain of ₹.218 crores and after taking

deduction of ₹.25 crores u/s. 54 of the Act and declared the capital gain

of ₹.22.1 crores. 7. The Assessing Officer is of the opinion that the transactions in the

shares are to be treated as business income not as under the head

"capital gain". In this regard he is of the opinion that assessee has

purchased shares of M/s Accelyst PTE Limited. in the F.Y 2011-12 and

sold the same in this particular Assessment Year and earned a capital gain

of ₹.218 crores which should have been offered to tax at 20% under Income-tax Act . However, in order to reduce this tax liability of capital

gain, the assesse entered into the purchase of only two shares i.e HCLT 5 ITA NO.1846/MUM/2022 (A.Y: 2015-16)
 Gauri Tandon

and TML on the 17.03.2015 and 18.03.2015. Further, he observed that

the securities of HCLT were to be issued a bonus was an information

available in the public domain. Similarly, the informations of split and

issue of bonuses shares of TML were also available in the public domain. He observed that it is fact that when the split and bonus shares are issued

the value of shares will decline. Therefore, assessee has taken an

advantage of the above facts and accordingly, claimed the loss. Therefore, the intention of the assessee was not in the nature of capital

asset but rather an "adventure in the nature of trade" as specified

u/s.2(13) in the definition of "business". He relied on the CBDT Circular

No. 6/2016 dated 29.02.2016 and other case laws. 8. The Assessing Officer asked the authorised representative of the

assessee as to how the exact calculation in terms of treating the original

shares as well as bonus shares as stock in trade of the assessee. In this

regard they filed a submissions vide letter dated 24.12.2018, for the sake

of clarity it is reproduced below: - 9. After considering the submissions of the assessee, Assessing Officer

observed that the cost of the bonus shares as well as the original shares

is equalized instead of the treatment by the assesse of treating the cost

of original shares at the original price and treating the cost of bonus

shares at zero and thus, the loss of ₹.171.62 crore which is not an actual

loss borne by the assesse but a mere change in the accounting treatment

of the shares of TML and HCLT is not incurred with the above mentioned

treatment and accordingly, he disallowed the loss claimed by the

assessee. 10. Further, he is of the opinion that the loss claimed by the assessee

is bogus by relying on the various share transactions carried by the

assessee during the year and also relying on the report of BSE and NSE 7 ITA NO.1846/MUM/2022 (A.Y: 2015-16)
 Gauri Tandon

data. Finally, he is of the opinion that the assessee has entered into a

premeditated share transaction with malafide intentions to book the loss

and possibly connived with the broker and the counter parties to colour

the same as a genuine transaction. By relying on the analyses made by

him in his order and reached to the conclusion that the assessee executed

premeditated and synchronized trades with an intention to fraudulently

effect the buy and sell which ultimately resulted into the huge loss. Accordingly, he disallowed loss claimed by the assessee of

₹.171,67,95,741/-. 11. Aggrieved assessee preferred an appeal before the Ld.CIT(A) and

filed detailed submissions on the issue of transfer of shares of HCLT and

TML, Assessing Officer by gathering the information from BSE and NSE

came to the conclusion that these transactions entered by the assessee

in violation of the provisions of SEBI (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair

Trade Practices relating to Securities Market) Regulations, 2003. After

considering the submissions of the assessee Ld.CIT(A) gave a detailed

finding in favour of the assessee as under: - In the case of the appellant all the conditions are fulfilled. There are
no red blinkers that indicate that the transaction is bogus. Further,
the shares transacted are very reputed company shares and not any
penny stock company shares. The stock broker engaged by the
appellant is also a reputed one with no known history of any fraud
or involvement in bogus transactions. 7.6. The Ld. AO has alleged that the appellant has indulged in
reversal trade. Here it becomes important to examine whether there
is any reversal trade. As per the definition, reversal of trade implies
that for a buying transaction initially entered upon by a broker for a
particular client for a specific quantity, there is a corresponding sale
transaction that takes place during the day for the same quantity
between the same set of broker/clients and vice versa. In reversal
trade there is no actual transfer of ownership of the shares. In the
facts of the appellant, nothing is brought on record by the Ld. A.O.
to prove that the ownership of shares is not transferred. Moreover
in none of the parties, the number of shares purchased is equivalent
to the number of shares sold to the same parties. Hence, the
statement of the Ld. AO of reversal trading is found to be incorrect. 7.7 The Ld. AO has not brought anything on record to prove that
the appellant along with the brokers/counter parties has indulged in
manipulated transaction. There are no documents/evidences to
justify that broker, counterparties and appellant were involved
together in these transactions. The Ld. AO has not provided any
statement recorded on oath wherein any of the parties have stated
that the arrangement was made for booking of loss. The entire
allegation is based on the working made by the Ld. AO which fails to
prove that transactions are not genuine. ITA NO.1846/MUM/2022 (A.Y: 2015-16)
 Gauri Tandon

7.8 The broker of the appellant is M/s. IIFL whereas broker of the
counter parties is M/s. Edelweiss Ltd. Accordingly, the brokers who
are involved in the transactions are recognized brokers in the market
with no history of fraud or bad reputation. The appellant and the
counter parties have different brokers. In stock market, the person
who is buying the shares are not aware who is selling the shares
since the trading is computerized and there are millions of investors
who are investing/selling every minute. Thus, without any
corroborative evidence on record that the appellant has colluded with
the stock brokers and the counterparties, it cannot be alleged that
appellant has manipulated the transaction on the stock exchange. 7.9 The observation of the Ld. AO that beneficial ownership was
not transferred is also found to be incorrect since on perusal of the
transaction statement, it is evident that the shares were transferred
and the same were held by the appellant in her own name. 7.10 Further, the most prominent point which the appellant has
brought to my notice is that bonus shares of the same companies
i.e. HCL & TML are sold in the next assessment year i.e. AY 2016- 17. The appellant had offered an income of Rs.147,87,39,819/- on
the sale of the said shares and the same was accepted by the
Learned AO at the time of passing the assessment order of A.Y.
2016-17 u/s. 143(3) of the Act dated 29.12.2018. The appellant has
submitted computation of income and the assessment order of AY
2016-17 from page no. 12 to 19 of the Paper Book. On perusal of
the same, I am of the view that the Ld. AO has failed to take a
consistent view by not allowing the losses in AY 2015-16 but by
taxing the said gain of Rs.147,87,39,819/- in A.Y. 2016-17, wherein
apart from declaration of loss in one year and gain in another, all
other circumstances have been exactly same. Hence, it is seen that
when there was a loss, the Ld. AO treated the loss as bogus loss
whereas when there was a gain, the same was accepted by the Ld.
AO. The treatment given by the Ld. AO is inconsistent. The approach
of the Ld. AO is not found to be correct. 7.11 The stock traded by the appellant is the stock of reputed
company. It is not a penny stock. The genuineness of the transaction
was not doubted by the Ld. AO at the time of sale of bonus shares
in next assessment years. 7.12 As far as statement of the Ld. AO is concerned that the
appellant has violated the provisions of SEBI (P FUT P) Regulations,
2003, the Ld. AO has not brought anything on record how the said
provisions are applicable to the facts of the case. The appellant was
asked to bring on record if SEBI has issued any notices to the
appellant or her broker. It was submitted that SEBI has not issued
any notices to the appellant or to her broker regarding the violation 10 ITA NO.1846/MUM/2022 (A.Y: 2015-16)
 Gauri Tandon

 of the said regulations. Neither any such evidence regarding violation
 of provisions of SEBI has been brought on record by the Ld. AO. I
 also tried to find any such notices/objections raised by SEBI on the
 appellant or her broker which might be present online or in public
 domain. But no such records against the appellant or her broker are
 found. Further, as per the submission of the appellant, till date also
 the appellant has not received any notice from the SEBI. If the
 prescribed authority itself is not alleging that a particular person has
 made any violation of the regulation, than the allegation made by
 the Ld. A.O. are merely surmises without backed by any evidence. 7.12. Further it is seen that the show cause notice wherein it is
 alleged that the appellant has violated the provisions of SEBI was
 also issued for A.Y. 2016-17, However, for AY 2016-17, the income
 offered by the appellant was accepted by the Ld. A.O. without any
 adverse findings. This is contradictory given that the same AO has
 passed orders for both the years under exactly same facts and
 circumstances. There are no proved bogus transactions. But the
 differential treatment as visible from examination of records available
 before me is only due to booking of profits in one year while losses
 in another. 7.13 However, in the face of circumstances and evidences present
 it cannot be denied that the appellant has sold the shares at a time
 which was effectively planned in a manner to give rise to losses.
 However, it is not mentioned anywhere that any party involved in
 share trading cannot make sale giving rise to losses. In fact, as a
 general principle no one likes to make losses. However, there is also
 no denying that the sale is planned by the appellant at a time when
 she could book losses. However, this planning has been legitimately
 done, without violation of any rules and regulations within the four
 walls of law. However, the same can be only categorized under tax
 planning and not a case of tax evasion. It is pertinent to note that
 tax planning is a completely legitimate instrument the benefit of
 which cannot be denied to any assessee. 7.15 Based on the above facts, I am of the view that the Ld. AO
 has erroneously treated the short term capital loss of Rs.171.62
 crores as bogus loss." 12. With regard to observation of Assessing Officer that loss claimed by

the assessee ought to be business loss and not a short term capital loss; ITA NO.1846/MUM/2022 (A.Y: 2015-16)
 Gauri Tandon

in this regard, after considering the detailed submissions of the assessee,

Ld.CIT(A) decided the issue in favour of the assessee as under: - ITA NO.1846/MUM/2022 (A.Y: 2015-16)
 Gauri Tandon 13. Aggrieved revenue preferred appeal before us raising following

grounds in its appeal: - 14. At the time of hearing, Ld. DR brought to our notice Page No. 3 of

the Assessment Order wherein Assessing Officer has brought on record

details of sales made by the assessee to Jasper Infotech Ltd, wherein

assessee has sold the M/s Accelyst PTE Limited shares and brought on

record clearly that the transactions carried by the assessee is nothing but 14 ITA NO.1846/MUM/2022 (A.Y: 2015-16)
 Gauri Tandon

adventure in the nature of trade and not investment as claimed by the

assessee. Therefore, as per the facts brought on record by the Assessing

Officer it is only a business loss. Further, he submitted that the loss

disallowed by the Assessing Officer is proper based on the facts brought

on record by the Assessing Officer that this is nothing but a sham loss

claimed by the assessee in order to avoid the capital gain payable by the

assessee. Further, he brought to our notice Page No. 24 of the Ld.CIT(A)

order wherein Ld.CIT(A) has observed that based on the circumstances

and facts present, it cannot be denied that the appellant has sold the

shares at a time which was effectively planned in a manner to give rise to

losses. However, it is not mentioned anywhere that any party involved in

share trading cannot make sale giving rise to losses. Further, he observed

that, there is also no denying that the sale is planned by the appellant at

a time when she could book losses and this planning has been legitimately

done, without violation of any rules and regulations. He submitted that it

is fact on record that he has acknowledged that assessee has planned to

book losses. Further, he brought to our notice CBDT Circular No. 4 of

2007 and circular No. 6 of 2016 and he stressed on the point (iii) where

it was highlighted that ordinarily the purchase and sale of shares with the

motive of earning a profit, would result in the transaction being in the 15 ITA NO.1846/MUM/2022 (A.Y: 2015-16)
 Gauri Tandon

nature of trade/adventure in the nature of trade; but where the object of

the investment in shares of a company is to derive income by way of

dividend, etc., then the profits accruing by change in such investment will

yield capital gain and not revenue receipt." By highlighting the above he

submitted that the transaction carried by the assessee is in the nature of

business and even otherwise the assessee has planned and booked the

transactions in such a way it can take the benefit of booking the losses. 15. On the other hand, Ld. AR brought to our notice Page No. 4 of the

Assessment Order and brought to our notice the investment of shares by

the assessee in HCLT and TML and he submitted that the assessee has

only made the investment. However, due to split of shares and issue of

bonus shares which the respective companies has declared, in that

process he brought to our notice Page No. 1 of the Paper Book which is

143(3) notice and he also brought to our notice Page No. 6 of the Paper

Book which is also notice issued u/s. 143(3) of the Act for the

A.Y. 2016-17. The same and similar issues were raised by the Assessing

Officer for the next assessment year also. Further, he brought to our

notice Page No. 11 of the Paper Book which is a common letter submitted

by the assessee for both the A.Ys. 2015-16 and 2016-17. He brought to

our notice Assessment Order for the A.Y. 2016-17, wherein Assessing 16 ITA NO.1846/MUM/2022 (A.Y: 2015-16)
 Gauri Tandon

Officer has accepted the submissions made by the assessee and the

assessee has sold the bonus shares by adopting the cost of acquisition at

NIL. The facts in both the Assessment Years are exactly same and is no

change in the method of accounting. He has also brought to our notice section 94(8) of the Act wherein the section is clearly supports the

transactions carried on by the assessee, in this regard he brought to our

notice decision of the ITAT, Pune Bench, in the case of Adar Poonawala

v. Addl. CIT in ITA.No. 764/PN/2012 dated 30.01.2015. He submitted

that the facts in the case of Adar Poonawala v. Addl. CIT (supra) is exactly

similar to the facts in the present case under consideration. He brought

to our notice Para No. 7 of the order wherein the assessee has earned the

long term capital gain of ₹.17.32 crores and at the same time claimed the

setoff of short term capital loss of ₹.14.95 crores wherein the ITAT has

addressed both issues of trading the shares transactions is chargeable

under the head capital gain not under the head profit and gains of

business and also nature of quantification of loss incurred by the assessee

on sale of shares. He brought to our notice the findings of the ITAT in

detail wherein the concerns of Assessing Officer are rightly addressed by

the Tribunal. Therefore, he submitted that the fact in the present appeal

is exactly similar to the fact in the above mentioned case. He prayed that 17 ITA NO.1846/MUM/2022 (A.Y: 2015-16)
 Gauri Tandon

the ratio of the decision may be considered for deciding the present

appeal. 16. Considered the rival submissions and material placed on record, we

observe from the record that no doubt assessee has sold the shares of

M/s Accelyst PTE Limited to Jasper Infotech Ltd, under a share purchase

agreement dated 11.03.2015 and earned a long term capital gain of

₹.218.55 crores and notice that in the same assessment year assessee

has purchased from TML and HCLT shares on 17th and 18th March 2015. The respective companies have announced the split-up of shares as well

as issued bonus shares to the assessee. In that process assessee acquired

a split shares 1252250 shares and on issue of bonus shares 1987125

shares. During the same assessment year assessee has sold original

shares acquired by the assessee of HCLT and TML and booked the loss. However, it retained the additional shares of split and bonus shares and

sold the same in the next assessment year declaring the cost of purchase

at NIL. However, the Assessing Officer reviewed the above transactions

and came to the conclusion that the transactions entered by the assessee

is sham as well as these transactions should be treated as adventure in

the nature of trade and disallowed the same. ITA NO.1846/MUM/2022 (A.Y: 2015-16)
 Gauri Tandon 17. Ld.AR brought to our notice facts in the case of Adar Poonawala v. Addl. CIT (supra) wherein ITAT Pune Bench has considered a similar issue

and decided the issue in favour of the assessee. In order to appreciate

the facts in the case of Adar Poonawala v. Addl. CIT (supra) the facts in

the above case and the relevant decision are reproduced below: - 18. On this aspect, we may also refer to the discussion by the
CIT(A) in para 5.1.3 of his order wherein he has referred to the
CBDT Circular dated 15.06.2007. As per the CIT(A), following the
criteria laid down in the CBDT Circular, the shares in question are
to be understood as 'investment' thereby giving rise to capital
gain on its sale. The aforesaid finding of the CIT(A) has not been
negated by the Revenue before us and is accordingly affirmed. 19. Another aspect raised by the Assessing Officer was that
assessee or his father were not merely passive investors in City
Park Pvt. Ltd. but were actively involved in the business
operations of the company and therefore the shares held by them
in City Park Pvt. Ltd. attain the character of stock-intrade. In our
considered opinion, whether a shareholder is an active or a
passive investor in an investee company is of no consequence to
examine the nature of the shares held by him. In our view, the
CIT(A) was justified in negating the aforesaid plea of the
Assessing Officer in the process of determining the nature of the
share holding of assessee in City Park Pvt. Ltd. 20. Before parting, we may also refer to a plea of the Assessing
Officer that assessee had adopted a colourable device to avoid
tax and in this context reliance was placed on the judgement of
the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of McDowell and Co. Ltd.
vs. CTO, 154 ITR 148 (SC). This objection of the Assessing
Officer has been dealt with by the CIT(A) in para 5.1.5 of his
order, which reads as under :- 21. In our view, the aforesaid discussion by the CIT(A) is fair
and apt, having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case
and we find no reason to interfere with the same. In any case,
there is no material to suggest that any colourable device has
been adopted by the assessee to avoid tax while carrying on the
transaction of sale of shares of City Park Pvt. Ltd. to Peninsula
Land Ltd.. 22. In view of the aforesaid discussion, we hereby affirm the
order of the CIT(A) holding that the surplus arising on the sale of
shares in City Park Pvt. Ltd. is assessable as capital gain and not
as profits and gains of business. Thus, on this aspect, Revenue
fails. 23. Now, we may take-up the appeal of the assessee which
relates to the 1 nature and quantification of loss incurred by the
assessee on sale of shares of HCL Technologies Ltd.. 24. To recapitulate, the background of the dispute in
assessee's appeal can be summarized as follows. The assessee 22 ITA NO.1846/MUM/2022 (A.Y: 2015-16)
 Gauri Tandon

before us is an individual, who is Executive Director of Serum
Institute of India Ltd.. In the period from 28.02.2007 to
13.03.2007, assessee purchased 4,71,517 equity shares of HCL
Technologies Ltd. for a total consideration of Rs.29,36,28,768/-
(inclusive of brokerage, etc.). The average purchase price of
above purchase was Rs.622 per share. On 12.02.2007, HCL
Technologies Ltd. announced bonus issue of shares in the ratio
of one share for every one share held and the record date was
fixed as 16.03.2007. Consequently, on account of his purchase
of 4,71,517 equity shares, assessee received 4,71,517 bonus
shares also. Subsequently, between 15.03.2007 to 28.03.2007
assessee sold 4,71,500 shares of HCL Technologies Ltd. out of
the original 4,71,517 shares acquired by him. Such shares were
sold for a consideration of Rs.14,28,67,804/- which reflected an
average sale price of Rs.303 per share. Assessee declared a short
term capital loss on sale of such shares of Rs.15,01,80,424/-. 25. The Assessing Officer has differed with the assessee on
the treatment of the aforesaid transaction. As per the Assessing
Officer, the aforesaid transaction reflected active involvement of
the assessee as a 'trader', rather than as an investor. As per the
Assessing Officer, assessee regularly dealt in the shares of HCL
Technologies Ltd. which reflected a trading intention. Secondly,
the stand of the Assessing Officer was that the motive for carrying
out the aforesaid set of transactions in the shares of HCL
Technologies Ltd. was to incur loss on account of bonus striping
and then set-off such loss against the long term capital gain
accruing to the assessee on sale of shares of City Park Pvt. Ltd..
As per the Assessing Officer, the motive of the assessee in dealing
in the shares of HCL Technologies Ltd. was tax avoidance and a
dubious tax planning. Ultimately, the Assessing Officer disagreed
with the assessee with nature and the quantification of loss on
the sale of 4,71,500 equity shares of HCL Technologies Ltd.. The
Assessing Officer computed the loss at Rs.39,41,287/- as per the
Tabulation which we have reproduced earlier in this order. The
point of difference on this aspect between the assessee and the
Assessing Officer was with regard to the cost of the shares sold.
The Assessing Officer followed the methodology of spreading the
cost of original shares to total shares i.e. the original shares plus
bonus shares. In other words, the total shares held by the
assessee (i.e. original shares 4,71,517 + bonus shares 4,71,517) 23 ITA NO.1846/MUM/2022 (A.Y: 2015-16)
 Gauri Tandon

were considered to have been acquired for an amount of
Rs.29,36,28,768/-, i.e. the price originally incurred by the
assessee. The Assessing Officer treated the shares of HCL
Technologies Ltd. as stock-in-trade and therefore the loss of
Rs.39,41,287/- treated as a business loss. The CIT(A) has
affirmed both the stands of the Assessing Officer, namely, that
the transaction in the shares of HCL Technologies Ltd. was a
business transaction, and, secondly that the methodology of loss
computed by the Assessing Officer was correct. 26. Before us, the Ld. Representative for the assessee
vehemently argued that the lower authorities have erred in
treating the activity of dealing in the shares of HCL Technologies
Ltd. as a business activity. According to the Ld. Representative,
assessee was whole-time involved as Executive Director of Serum
Institute of India Ltd.; and, that there was neither an organized
activity of trading in shares and nor was there any organizational
support in this regard. With regard to the profit motive, it has
been contended by the Ld. Representative that be it be a business
transaction or an investment transaction, profit maximization is
an element which is always present. It has also been contended
that the lower authorities have erred in confirming that bonus
shares received formed part of the stock-in-trade and taking the
cost of shares sold on average basis was also wrong. In this
context, reliance has been placed on the judgement of Hon'ble
Supreme Court in the case of CIT vs. Madan Gopal Radhyey Lal ,
73 ITR 652 wherein the Supreme Court held that in the hands of
the dealer of shares, any bonus shares received constitute a
'capital asset' unless specifically converted into stock-in-trade.
Based on the aforesaid judgement, it is contended that the
assessee received the bonus shares as a 'capital asset' and never
converted the bonus shares into stock-intrade. It is submitted
that in the subsequent assessment years, the sale proceeds in
respect of bonus shares sold were offered to tax under the head
'capital gain' after considering their cost of acquisition as Nil and
such a treatment has been accepted by the Assessing officer in
scrutiny assessments. It was therefore contended that the
quantity of bonus shares could not be considered while
determining the cost of the original shares sold during the year
under consideration. According to the Ld. Representative, this is
also on par with section 55(2)(aa)(iiia) of the Act wherein the cost 24 ITA NO.1846/MUM/2022 (A.Y: 2015-16)
 Gauri Tandon

of bonus shares is to be taken as Nil and the entire cost is liable
to be adjusted on the original shares. 27. At the time of hearing, it has also been pointed out that
during the year under consideration, assessee had sold other
shares and units of mutual funds, and profit arising from such
transactions have been accepted by the Assessing Officer to be
assessable as 'capital gains'. Furthermore, it was pointed out that
in the preceding assessment years as well as in the subsequent
assessment years, the Assessing Officer has assessed the gain on
sale of shares as an income assessable under the head capital
gains, even in the course of scrutiny assessment. For all the
aforesaid reasons, it has been canvassed that there was no scope
for treating the impugned transaction as business transactions.
It was also vehemently argued that there was no material to
impeach the genuineness of the transactions and that at best the
transaction can be termed as a 'use of the provisions of law' and
it cannot be said to be 'a abuse of law', as was observed by the
Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of CIT vs. Walfort Share &
Stock Brokers (P .) Ltd., 326 ITR 1 (SC) in a somewhat similar
situation. 28. On the other hand, the Ld. Departmental Representative
appearing for the Revenue has reiterated that the magnitude and
frequency of the transactions in the HCL Technologies Ltd. shares
was quite substantial which reflects that the intention of the
assessee was to trade in such shares. With regard to assessee's
intention, it was pointed out that at the time of undertaking
transactions in HCL Technologies Ltd. shares, assessee was
aware that he was considering the sale of shares of City Park Pvt.
Ltd., which was to yield him substantial amount of capital gain
and therefore he undertook the impugned transaction in shares
of HCL Technologies Ltd. in order to incur a loss. According to
the Ld. Departmental Representative, it is a common knowledge
that share prices come down after the issue of the bonus shares,
since the bonus shares are allotted after capitalizing the free
reserves of a company. Therefore, assessee bought the shares
of HCL Technologies Ltd. on cum bonus basis and after having
received the bonus shares, the original shares were sold in the
market at the reduced prices. According to the Ld. Departmental
Representative, sequence of events clearly indicate that the 25 ITA NO.1846/MUM/2022 (A.Y: 2015-16)
 Gauri Tandon

purchase and sale of shares was undertaken with the sole
intention of booking a loss so as to set-off the same against the
gain from sale of shares of City Park Pvt. Ltd. and take the benefit
of provisions of section 10(38) of the Act, thereby claiming the
capital gain on sale of bonus shares as exempt on a later date. 29. We have carefully considered the rival submissions. In the
present case, the fundamental aspect which is permeating
through the entire exercise carried out by the Assessing Officer is
that the short term capital loss incurred by the assessee on sale
of 4,71,500 shares of HCL Technologies Ltd. has been set-off
against the long term capital gain earned by the assessee on the
sale of shares of City Park Pvt. Ltd.. The appellant purchased
4,71,517 equity shares of HCL Technologies Ltd. at an average
price of Rs.622 per share between 28.02.207 to 13.02.2007.
After receipt of 4,71,517 bonus shares, assessee sold 4,71,500
shares out of original shares between 16.03.2007 to 28.02.2007
at an average selling price of Rs.303 per share. Ostensibly, after
the issue of bonus shares, the price of HCL Technologies Ltd.
declined in the market and therefore the sale price realized by the
assessee was only Rs.303 per share as against as the purchase
price of cum-bonus shares of Rs.622 per share. The resultant
loss was canvassed to be a short capital loss. In the subsequent
years, assessee sold the balance shares remaining with him i.e.
bonus shares of 471517 and the 17 out of the original 471517
shares. As the period of holding that was in excess of 12 months,
in subsequent years the gain on sale of such shares has been
accepted by the Assessing Officer as long term capital gain, which
was exempt u/s 10(38) of the Act. Notably, while computing such
capital gain, the cost of acquisition of the bonus shares was taken
as 'Nil' by application of the provisions of section 55(2)(aa)(iia) of
the Act. The aforesaid position has been accepted by the
Assessing Officer in scrutiny assessment, as asserted by the
assessee in the course of the hearing before us, and this material
has not been repudiated from the side of the Revenue. 30. In the current year, assessee computed the loss on sale of
4,71,500 original shares by considering the average acquisition
cost of Rs.622 per share. Ostensibly, it resulted in a loss because
the sale price realized was only Rs.303 per share. First of all, the
Assessing Officer viewed the whole transaction as a dubious tax 26 ITA NO.1846/MUM/2022 (A.Y: 2015-16)
 Gauri Tandon

planning. In this context, a reference has been made to the
judgement of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Walfort
Share & Stock Brokers (P.) Ltd. (supra). In the case before the
Hon'ble Supreme Court, assessee purchased mutual fund units on
24.03.2000 and became entitled to dividend on the units @ Rs.4
per unit and earned a dividend of Rs.1,82,12,862/-. As a result
of the dividend payout the value of the units reduced from
Rs.17.23 to Rs.13.23 per unit on March 27, 2000, when assessee
sold all the units and collected an amount of Rs.5,90,55,207/- as
well as other incentives of Rs.23,76,778/-. In all, assessee
received back Rs.7,96,44,847/- as against initial payout of
Rs.8,00,00,000/-. In the return of income, assessee claimed
dividend of Rs.1,82,12,862/- as exempt u/s 10(33) of the Act and
also claimed a set-off Rs.2,09,44,793/- as loss incurred on sale of
units. The Revenue disallowed the set-off of loss claimed which
was negated by the Tribunal and thereafter the Hon'ble Supreme
Court. As per the Hon'ble Supreme Court, it stood established
that there was a sale and that assessee received a dividend,
which was tax-free. In this context, the Hon'ble Supreme Court
noted that the entire transaction could not be seen as 'abuse of
law' but the assessee had made use of the "provisions of section
10(33) ". The Hon'ble Supreme Court observed that even if it was
to be assumed that there was a pre-planned action yet there was
nothing to impeach the genuineness of the transaction. Adverting
to the provisions of section 94(7) of the Act, the Hon'ble Supreme
Court noted that in the case of assessment, before 01.04.2002
i.e. before insertion of section 94(7) of the Act, losses pertaining
to the exempted income could not be disallowed. The
assessment year before the Hon'ble Supreme Court was before
the insertion of section 94(7) of the Act. It has also been
observed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court that even after applying section 94(7) to cases for assessment years after 01.04.2002, the
loss to be ignored would be only to the extent of the dividend
received and not the entire loss. In other words, the losses over
and above the dividend received would still be allowed to be set-
off. Considering the aforesaid scheme of the Act, the Hon'ble
Supreme Court held that the Parliament has not treated the
dividend stripping transaction as sham or bogus. 31. In our considered opinion, the parity of reasoning laid
down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Walfort Share 27 ITA NO.1846/MUM/2022 (A.Y: 2015-16)
 Gauri Tandon

& Stock Brokers (P.) Ltd. (supra) is definitely attracted in the
present case too. In the present case, even if it is taken that the
transaction in the shares of HCL Technologies Ltd. was pre-
planned, but the inference drawn by the Assessing Officer that it
was a dubious tax planning cannot be upheld because there is
nothing to impeach the genuineness of the transaction carried out
by the assessee. In the case before the Hon'ble Supreme Court
also, similar situation prevailed and the Revenue had cast doubt
on the transaction because of pre-planned nature of the
transaction. The Hon'ble Supreme Court negated the stand of
the Revenue, as noted by us earlier. Applying the similar parity
of reasoning in the present case, the stand of the Assessing
Officer that the transaction was pre-meditated with the intention
of incurring loss and setting-off against capital gains income is an
"abuse of law" cannot be affirmed. 32. We may also refer to section 94(8) of the Act, which has
been inserted by the Finance (No.2) w.e.f. 01.04.2005, and it
provides that loss arising on bonus stripping of units is to be
ignored after 01.04.2005. The phraseology of section 94(8) of
the Act itself reveals that the Parliament in its wisdom restricted
the scope of bonus stripping u/s 94(8) of the Act only to the units
and did not extend it to the shares while the scope of the dividend
stripping contained in section 94(7) of the Act applied both to
shares/securities as well as units. Therefore, on the strength of section 94(8) of the Act also and having regard to the parity of
reasoning laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case
Walfort Share & Stock Brokers (P.) Ltd. (supra), the transactions
of purchase and sale of shares of HCL Technologies Ltd. are to
be understood as a genuine transaction and are not covered by
the provisions of section 94(8) of the Act. 33. Now, with regard to the stand of the assessee that he has
acted as an investor and not as a trader while carrying out the
aforesaid transaction in the shares of HCL Technologies Ltd. In
this context, the sum and substance of the case made out by the
Revenue is that within a short period of time assessee has carried
out substantial purchase/sale transactions in the shares of HCL
Technologies Ltd. As per the Assessing Officer, the transaction
has been carried out in a systematic and organized manner and
the intent was to incur a loss, which could be set-off against the 28 ITA NO.1846/MUM/2022 (A.Y: 2015-16)
 Gauri Tandon

capital gains income. Therefore, according to the Revenue, the
transactions have to understood as a 'business activity'. 34. It is trite law that whether a particular transaction is an
adventure in the nature of trade or is an investment simplicitor is
a mixed question of law and facts. It is also evident that there is
a plethora of judicial rulings on this aspect. Nevertheless, a
common thread which emerges from various judicial rulings is
that no single test is conclusive but the entire conspectus of facts
and circumstances of a given case have to be cumulatively
appreciated in order to determine as to whether the transaction
in question is an adventure in the nature of trade or is an
investment simplicitor. In this background, we may examine the
factual matrix of the present case. At the outset, the Ld.
Representative pointed out that the gain derived on sale of other
shares and mutual funds in this year has been accepted by the
Assessing Officer to be assessable under the head 'capital gains'.
It has also been pointed out that in the scrutiny assessment for
the preceding assessment years as well as for the subsequent
assessment years the profit on sale of shares earned by the
assessee has been accepted as assessable under the head 'capital
gains'. Notably, even with regard to the gain on sale of bonus
shares of HCL Technologies Ltd., it was stated at Bar that in
subsequent assessment years it has been accepted by the
Assessing Officer as an income assessable under the head 'capital
gains'. On all these aspects, the Revenue has not controverted
the factual matrix brought out by the assessee. In this
background, in our considered opinion, the onus was on the
Revenue to establish that the transaction in the shares of HCL
Technologies Ltd. was not assessable under the head 'capital
gains', as declared by the assessee in the return of income. The
moot point is as to whether or not, having regard to the discussion
in the orders of the authorities below, such an onus has been
discharged by the Revenue. 35. The only point made by the Revenue is that magnitude and
frequency of the transaction in HCL Technologies Ltd. is
substantial. In our considered opinion, in the present case, the
nature of the assessee's dealing in shares as an investor stands
established in past as well as also in future years. The assessee
is full time involved in other activity of being Executive Director 29 ITA NO.1846/MUM/2022 (A.Y: 2015-16)
 Gauri Tandon

 of Serum Institute of India Ltd.. There is no material to suggest
 that any organizational structure or infrastructure is possessed by
 the assessee to undertake trading in shares as a business activity.
 There is no material to say that assessee acted as a frequent
 dealer in shares over an extended period of time. No doubt, for
 a short spell of time in the months of February and March,
 assessee has undertaken transactions in the shares of HCL
 Technologies Ltd.. But the same by itself cannot be categorized
 as a business activity, as it is not a continuous activity. Moreover,
 we also find weight in the plea setup by the Ld. Representative
 before us that if the intention was to incur loss, as canvassed by
 the Assessing Officer, then obviously such an activity cannot be
 categorized as 'business'. It is well understood that no business
 is carried out with an intention of making a loss, rather the
 intention is always to make profits. Therefore, by taking an
 overall view of the facts and circumstances of the present case,
 we are unable to uphold the stand of the lower authorities that
 the transaction in the shares of HCL Technologies Ltd. is a
 business transaction. We hereby set-aside the order of the
 CIT(A) on this aspect and direct the Assessing Officer to re-
 compute the capital gain/loss on the sale of shares of HCL
 Technologies Ltd. considering it to be assessable under the 20
 head capital gains as per law. Thus, on this aspect assessee
 succeeds. 36. Resultantly, whereas the appeal of the Revenue is
 dismissed that of the assessee is allowed." 18. Respectfully following the above said decision, we observe that even

in the present case assessee has claimed the losses by booking the cost

of purchase of the original shares and retain the cost of additional shares

due to split and bonus shares at ₹.NIL. The assessee has sold the above

additional shares in the subsequent assessment year and declared the

profit by considering the cost of purchase as Nil. As such, there is no loss 30 ITA NO.1846/MUM/2022 (A.Y: 2015-16)
 Gauri Tandon

to the revenue. Therefore, the ratio and the facts are exactly similar to

the facts in the present case. Respectfully following the above decision,

we are inclined to dismiss the grounds raised by the revenue. Accordingly,

appeal filed by the Revenue is dismissed. 19. In the result, appeal filed by the Revenue is dismissed. Order pronounced in the open court on 18th January, 2023

 Sd/- Sd/-