This petition is filed seeking bail in Crime No.49/2012

of Annigeri Police Station registered on 18.05.2012 for the

offences punishable under Sections 302 and 201 of IPC r/w. Section 34 of IPC. 2. It is the case of the prosecution that on 16.05.2012,

at about 8 a.m., deceased Sharif Fakirappa Devaramani and

the sons of his brother were returning from KIMS Hospital,

Hubli, after seeing his sister-in-law who was admitted for

delivery. At about 8.30 p.m., when they came back and

alighted at Bhadrapur bus stand, accused No.1 - Dyamanna

took the deceased along with him stating that they have some

other work. Deceased Sharif did not return to the house till

late in the evening and thereafter, it was informed that

complainant's husband was killed and the dead body was

dumped near the pump house on Yerihalla bridge. She

identified the dead body and thereafter the complaint came to

the lodged. During investigation the petitioner and three

others were arrested and they confessed the conspiracy for

committing murder of the deceased. It is stated that accused -3- No.1 has obtained a loan of Rs.2,00,000/- and the deceased

was insisting accused No.1 for the repayment of the said loan

and to avoid the repayment, all the accused have hatched the

conspiracy of committing murder of the deceased. One

Andanayya Hatalageri and Chambanna Sunkad are the

eyewitnesses to the incident. They have stated about the

overt acts of the petitioner that this petitioner was holding

both the hands of the deceased and one Gautham was

holding legs of the deceased and accused Nos.1 and 2 have

tied the cable wire to the neck of the deceased and pulled

from both sides and caused the death of the deceased. 3. Learned Counsel for the petitioner submitted that the

police have filed a charge sheet and that there are no

eyewitnesses to the incident and hence, he prays that the

petitioner may be enlarged on bail. 4. Learned High Court Government Pleader for the State

has filed statement of objections. 5. From the statement of the eyewitnesses, it is clear

that the deceased has been done to death by four persons -4- including the petitioner. There are specific overt acts alleged

against the petitioner and the petitioner along with others

have motive to commit murder of the deceased. In that view

of the matter, I am of the considered view that the petitioner

is not entitled for bail. The petition is dismissed. Sd/- JUDGE

nvj