Dt.08.07.2022

 The applicant has preferred this application under Section 11(4) & 11(6) of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (for short, "the Act of

1996") seeking to appoint an arbitrator in terms of the Manual for

Procurement of Goods, 2017, to adjudicate the claims and settle the

disputes between the parties arising out of the agreement dated

04.11.2015. 2. The Andhra Pradesh Medical Services Infrastructure Development

Corporation issued tender No.7.1/APMSIDC/2015-16 dated 25.07.2015 for

service and maintenance of biomedical assets and equipment within the

State, followed by a Request for Proposal (RFP). The applicant being a
 2 HCJ Arb.Appl.No.26 of 2020 successful bidder, an agreement dated 04.11.2015 was entered between

the applicant and the respondent for providing biomedical equipment

maintenance, repair and other connected services in Andhra Pradesh.

According to the applicant, RFP was duly signed, stamped and was

intended to be the agreement, which listed various terms, conditions and

obligations for both the parties. The applicant started providing services

from November 2015 itself. However, in April 2018, the respondent

started withholding payment of applicant's invoices and, thereafter, a

public interest litigation being W.P. (PIL) No.126 of 2018 was filed before

this Court, due to which payments were withheld, compelling the

applicant to prefer W.P.No.33672 of 2018, wherein interim order was

passed in its favour. When the interim order was not complied with, the

applicant filed another writ petition, i.e. W.P.No.44442 of 2018, seeking

compliance of the interim order dated 26.09.2018, in which an interim

order was again passed on 14.03.2019. The respondent again failed to

comply the order and issued notice dated 13.09.2019 for termination of

agreement, against which applicant filed another writ petition, i.e.

W.P.No.15939 of 2019. 3. It is the case of the applicant that the respondent, in its counter-

affidavit filed in the above writ petition, stated that since the agreement

between the parties did not have a provision for early termination of the

agreement, they had relied upon the guidelines issued by the

Government of India, i.e. Manual for Procurement of Goods, 2017 (for

short, "the Manual"). This Court recorded the respondent's contention

and in its interim order dated 13.12.2019, observed that there is no

dispute with regard to the application of the Manual for procurement of
 3 HCJ Arb.Appl.No.26 of 2020 goods to the contract, as the same is admitted in the counter-affidavit. It

was also stated by the respondent that due to certain allegations against

the applicant, an enquiry is being conducted by the Anti-Corruption

Bureau. 4. The applicant issued a communication dated 24.12.2019 in terms

of Clause 9.9 of the Manual for a meeting to amicably resolve the dispute

between the parties, which remained unanswered. On 09.01.2020, the

respondent again issued a show-cause notice as to why the agreement

should not be terminated. Thereafter, the applicant invoked Clause 9.9 of

the Manual vide its communication dated 18.01.2020 captioned as "notice

of arbitration". After eight months, i.e. on 21.09.2020, the respondent

issued an interim reply couched as "Termination Order", terminating the

agreement, at the same time rejecting the proposal for appointment of an

arbitrator. 5. In the above background, the applicant contended that the

respondent, having admitted in its counter-affidavit filed in the writ

petition stated above, that Manual is applicable, it is bound by the

arbitration clause contained in Clause 9.9 thereof and since there exists

dispute and refusal on the part of the respondent for arbitration,

application is preferred for appointment of an arbitrator. 6. Per contra, stand of the respondent in the counter-affidavit to the

application is that the agreement was proposed to be for a period of five

years together with performance bank guarantee for the same time

period. Instead of submitting performance bank guarantee for a period

of five years at Rs.11.47 crores, which is a mandatory requirement to
 4 HCJ Arb.Appl.No.26 of 2020 treat the agreement for a period of five years as contemplated in the RFP,

the applicant paid bank guarantee of Rs.1.91 crore treating the

agreement for one year only. The Government of Andhra Pradesh vide

G.O.Rt.No.660 HM&FW(E2) Department dated 04.11.2015 issued

permission for entering into agreement for a period of one year and there

is no Government Order in existence for extending the period of

agreement for one year to five years, as claimed by the applicant. It is

also stated that criminal case is registered by the CID in FIR No.07 of

2021 into the affairs of the programme. 7. It is further stated in the counter-affidavit that Section 2 of RFP

clearly provides that RFP is not an agreement and the parties to the RFP

have to provide necessary information to the interested parties and that

detailed terms specified in the draft agreement shall have overriding

effect, to which the applicant has agreed that it will enter into an

agreement in accordance with the draft provided to it. In substance, it

has been stated that the so-called agreement dated 04.11.2015 is

nothing but a judicial stamp receipt annexed to it bearing the signature of

the then Commissioner and the service provider. However, the document

is not in sync with the standard format used for agreement purposes as

communicated by the APMSIDC to the Commissioner's Office dated

18.10.2015. In the official records, there is no document, which can be

treated as agreement between the parties. 8. In respect of applicability of the Manual, it is stated that the same

has been issued by the Government of India for procurement of goods

generically, which is broad in nature and States have been given liberty to
 5 HCJ Arb.Appl.No.26 of 2020 design standard bidding documents and standard agreements depending

upon their suitability. 9. For termination of agreement and invocation of jurisdiction under Section 11 of the Act of 1996 with the aid of the provisions in the Manual,

it has been stated that in the absence of specified and agreed procedure

for termination of agreement, aid of the provisions in the Manual has

been taken, but that would not make the Manual as binding agreement

between the parties. It is further stated that there was no consensus ad

idem between the parties to introduce Clause 9.9 to form part of

agreement (or) a new arbitration agreement, as such, there is no

concluded agreement between the parties containing arbitration clause;

neither there is any specific mention of Clause 9.9 of the Manual to be

part of the agreement. Referring to the rejoinder filed by the applicant in

W.P.No.15939 of 2019, it is stated in the counter-affidavit filed to the

present application that the applicant itself has refused to treat the

Manual as a tool to invoke termination clause. Therefore, the applicant

cannot aprobate and reprobate. In its rejoinder in the writ petition, the

applicant has clearly stated that the respondent (State of A.P.) is bound

to adhere to the terms of agreement and cannot take aid of other

document to suit its convenience and justify their act of termination of

agreement. 10. It is highlighted in the counter-affidavit that the High Court in its

order passed in W.P.No.15939 of 2019, has clearly held that the

argument of Additional Advocate General with regard to invocation of

arbitration clause need not be taken for discussion, as it is not within the

scope of this application (writ petition) and there is no argument
 6 HCJ Arb.Appl.No.26 of 2020 extended by the petitioner's counsel regarding invocation of arbitration

clause. Thus, it is submitted that the order passed in W.P.No.15939 of

2019 is not binding, because invocation of arbitration clause was not an

issue before the writ court. 11. It is next contended that clause 9.9 of the Manual, does not satisfy

the mandate of Sections 10 and 11 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 and,

as such, it cannot be treated as an arbitration agreement under Section 7 of the Act of 1996. 12. The respondent would contend that ACB enquiry ordered by the

High Court in W.P. (PIL) No.126 of 2018 and registration of consequential

FIR No.07 of 2021, prima facie, establishes commission of fraud by the

applicant. Therefore, it is not a case where the matter should be referred

to arbitration. Moreover, there being no arbitration clause in the

agreement, provisions in the Manual cannot be resorted to for invoking

arbitration. It is highlighted that High Court in W.P. (PIL) No.126 of 2018

observed in its order dated 31.07.2019 that the averments in the report,

prima facie, disclose commission of cognizable offence, having regard to

the nature of allegations made on reply of 12th respondent and in view of

the law laid down by this Court, ACB authorities were directed to enquire

into the allegations made in the complaint and proceed in accordance

with law. This Court also observed that in the report submitted by the

Director General, ACB, various irregularities have been mentioned, based

on which the crime has been registered. 13. Mr. Anish Dayal, learned senior counsel appearing for the

applicant, has strenuously urged that in the writ proceedings before this

Court, the respondent has placed reliance on the provisions of the Manual
 7 HCJ Arb.Appl.No.26 of 2020 to justify the termination of the agreement; therefore, having admitted

the applicability of the Manual which contains an arbitration clause, as

such, the respondent cannot be allowed to aprobate and reprobate. The

respondent cannot cherry-pick terms of the Manual by applying the

provisions which suit it and deny those containing arbitration clause.

According to him, pendency of a criminal case does not arrest the

jurisdiction of the Court to appoint an arbitrator. It is also submitted that

at this stage, the Court is only required to examine whether there exists

an arbitration clause or not. After amendment in the Arbitration and

Conciliation Act, 1996 by Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Act,

2015 , exercise of jurisdiction under sub-section (4), (5) or (6) of Section

11 would confine to the examination of existence of an arbitration

agreement and nothing more, nothing less. 14. Learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant has referred to

the following judgments rendered by the Hon'ble Supreme Court: 15. Per Contra, Mr. P. Sudhakara Reddy, learned Additional Advocate

General, would argue that agreement pressed into service, itself, is

shrouded in controversy and is almost non-existent and significantly the

agreement having no arbitration clause, applicant's prayer for

appointment of an arbitrator deserves to be dismissed at the threshold.

According to him, provisions of the Manual cannot be relied upon to read

an arbitration clause when there is none in the agreement between the

parties. He would submit that when this Court has taken cognizance of 7 (2014) 6 SCC 677 8 2019 SCC OnLine SC 1091 9 (2020) 15 SCC 706 10 (2018) 15 SCC 678 11 (2021) 4 SCC 713 12 (2016) 10 SCC 386 13 (2019) 8 SCC 710 14 2020 SCC OnLine TS 893 15 (2013) 5 SCC 470 16 (1981) 1 SCC 537
 9 HCJ Arb.Appl.No.26 of 2020 the serious fraud and irregularities committed by the applicant in

executing the agreement and directed investigation by ACB based on

which FIR has been lodged, an arbitrator cannot be appointed to resolve

the dispute. Learned Additional Advocate General has referred to the law laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in PSA Mumbai Investments

PTE. Limited v. Board of Trustees of the Jawaharlal Nehru

Port Trust and Anr. 17 , National Highways & Infrastructure

Development Corpn. Ltd. v. BSCPL Infrastructure Ltd. 18 and Uttarakhand Purv Sainik Kalyan Nigam Limited v. Northern Coal

Field Limited19 . 16. Although number of judgments have been cited to support the

submission that at the stage of Section 11 proceedings, the Court is only

required to look into the existence of an arbitration agreement before

making reference, the law having been settled in this regard,

I would refer to one of the latest judgments of the Hon'ble

Supreme Court, i.e. Secunderabad Cantonment Board v. B.

Ramachandraiah and Sons20 , in which the Hon'ble Supreme Court has

observed with reference to Duro Felguera (supra) that in an application

under Section 11 of the Act of 1996, the Court should only look into

existence of an arbitration agreement before making reference and that

the earlier judgments of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in SBP & Co. v.

Patel Engineering Ltd. and Anr.21 and National Insurance Co. Ltd.

v. Boghara Polyfab (P) Ltd. 22 continued till the amendment was

brought about in 2015 and the legislative policy under the Arbitration and 17 (2018) 10 SCC 525 18 (2019) 15 SCC 25 19 (2020) 2 SCC 455 20 2021 SCC OnLine SC 219 21 (2005) 8 SCC 618 22 (2009) 1 SCC 267
 10 HCJ Arb.Appl.No.26 of 2020 Conciliation (Amendment) Act, 2015 is for the purpose of minimizing the

Court's intervention at the state of appointing the arbitrator and this

intention is incorporated in Section 11 (6-A). The Hon'ble Supreme Court

has held thus in paragraph 19: 11 HCJ Arb.Appl.No.26 of 2020 arbitrator. Mayavati Trading (P) Ltd. in our humble opinion,
rightly holds that Patel Engg. Ltd. has been legislatively
overruled and hence would not apply even post omission of
sub-section (6-A) to Section 11 of the Arbitration
Act. Mayavati Trading (P) Ltd. has elaborated upon the
object and purposes and history of the amendment to Section 11 , with reference to sub-section (6-A) to elucidate
that the section, as originally enacted, was facsimile with Article 11 of the Uncitral Model of law of arbitration on
which the Arbitration Act was drafted and enacted."

 While exercising jurisdiction under Section 11 as the
judicial forum, the court may exercise the prima facie test to
screen and knockdown ex facie meritless, frivolous, and
dishonest litigation. Limited jurisdiction of the courts would
ensure expeditious and efficient disposal at the referral
stage. At the referral stage, the court can interfere "only"
when it is "manifest" that the claims are ex facie time-barred
and dead, or there is no subsisting dispute. Para 148 of the judgment reads as follows: 12 HCJ Arb.Appl.No.26 of 2020 Premium Nafta Products Ltd., (Fili Shipping Co.
Ltd. v. Premium Nafta Products Ltd.,) [2007 UKHL 40] , it
is not to be expected that commercial men while entering
transactions inter se would knowingly create a system
which would require that the court should first decide
whether the contract should be rectified or avoided or
rescinded, as the case may be, and then if the contract is
held to be valid, it would require the arbitrator to resolve
the issues that have arisen." In para 154.4, it has been concluded that
"154.4. Rarely as a demurrer the court may interfere at Section 8 or 11 stage when it is manifestly and ex facie
certain that the arbitration agreement is non-existent,
invalid or the disputes are non-arbitrable, though the
nature and facet of non-arbitrability would, to some
extent, determine the level and nature of judicial
scrutiny. The restricted and limited review is to check and
protect parties from being forced to arbitrate when the
matter is demonstrably "non-arbitrable" and to cut off the
deadwood. The court by default would refer the matter
when contentions relating to non-arbitrability are plainly
arguable; when consideration in summary proceedings
would be insufficient and inconclusive; when facts are
contested; when the party opposing arbitration adopts
delaying tactics or impairs conduct of arbitration
proceedings. This is not the stage for the court to enter
into a mini trial or elaborate review so as to usurp the
jurisdiction of the Arbitral Tribunal but to affirm and
uphold integrity and efficacy of arbitration as an
alternative dispute resolution mechanism." In para 244.4 it was concluded that: 17. In Secunderabad Cantonment Board (supra), relevant part of

which has been extracted above, the Hon'ble Supreme Court eventually

dismissed the application under Section 11 of the Act of 1996, having

found that the same is hopelessly barred by limitation. 18. In Vidya Drolia (supra), which has been referred in Secunderabad Cantonment Board (supra), the Hon'ble Supreme

Court examined the issue as to exercise of jurisdiction under Section 11 of the Act of 1996, where arbitration clause is not in existence or the

agreement itself is invalid or unenforceable. The Hon'ble Supreme Court

held thus in paragraphs 146 and 153: requires understanding the context, the purpose and the relevant
legal norms applicable for a binding and enforceable arbitration
agreement. An agreement evidenced in writing has no meaning
unless the parties can be compelled to adhere and abide by the
terms. A party cannot sue and claim rights based on an
unenforceable document. Thus, there are good reasons to hold
that an arbitration agreement exists only when it is valid and
legal. A void and unenforceable understanding is no agreement to
do anything. Existence of an arbitration agreement means an
arbitration agreement that meets and satisfies the statutory
requirements of both the Arbitration Act and the Contract Act and
when it is enforceable in law." 19. In Garware Wall Ropes Ltd. (supra), the Hon'ble Supreme Court

referred to its earlier judgment in the matter of United India

Insurance Company Limited and Anr. v. Hyundai Engineering and

Construction Company Limited and Ors. , [(2018) 17 SCC 607], to

hold thus in paragraph 29: (emphasis supplied) 20. The law is thus fairly settled that, to invoke Section 11 of the Act

of 1996, there should exist an agreement containing arbitration clause to

mean arbitration agreement, which, itself, as is now settled, is a separate

agreement and secondly arbitration agreement should be valid and legal
 16 HCJ Arb.Appl.No.26 of 2020 and more importantly an arbitration clause that is contained in a sub-

contract would not exist as a matter of law until the sub-contract is duly

stamped, meaning thereby that the sub-contract is duly executed. 21. In the case at hand, admittedly, there is no arbitration clause in

the agreement signed between the parties. The RFP, which has been

made part of the agreement as claimed by the applicant, clearly provides

in Section 2 thereof that RFP is not an agreement and the parties to the

RFP document have to provide necessary information to the interested

parties. The RFP proposes a draft agreement to be signed by the parties

with clear mention in Section 8 of the RFP that the parties have agreed to

enter into an agreement in accordance with the draft that has been

provided to the successful bidder with an undertaking not to seek any

change in the draft. The RFP also provides in Section 3 .3.1.8 that the

contracting Authority will enter into an agreement with the Special

Purpose Vehicle (SPV) incorporated by the selected bidder and the

selected bidder shall be confirming party in the aforesaid agreement.

However, the applicant who is the selected bidder has not formed any

SPV and no agreement with the selected entity, i.e. SPV has ever been

executed. In this view of the matter, there is force in the submission of

the learned Additional Advocate General for the respondent that the

present applicant has no locus to invoke Section 11 of the Act of 1996.

In Section 3 .4.3.5 of the RFP, it is again mentioned that agreement shall

be executed with the SPV. Same clause finds place in the Appendices

referring to Section 8 duly signed by the applicant, undertaking that it is

understood that the selected bidder shall incorporate a Company under

the Companies Act, 1956 (SPV) prior to execution of the agreement,
 17 HCJ Arb.Appl.No.26 of 2020 without seeking any changes in the draft agreement provided by the

respondent. 22. Insofar as the applicability of the Manual is concerned, it is clearly

provided in the Manual that the same is issued by the Central

Government as generic guidelines, which have to be necessarily broad in

nature. The Ministries/Departments are advised to supplement these

manuals to suit local/specialized needs by issuing their own detailed

Manuals (including customized formats); Standard Bidding Documents;

Schedule of Procurement Powers and Checklists to serve practical

instructions for their officers. Clause 1.3 of the Manual speaks about its

applicability, which is reproduced hereunder for ready reference: Ministries/Departments are advised to supplement these
manuals to suit local/specialized needs, by issuing their own
detailed Manuals (including customized formats); Standard
Bidding Documents; Schedule of Procurement Powers and
Checklists to serve as practical instructions for their officers
 19 HCJ Arb.Appl.No.26 of 2020 and to ensure completeness of examination of cases. Major
 Goods procuring Ministries/Departments like the Ministry of
 Defence, Ministry of Railways, Director General Supplies and
 Disposal (DGS&D) etc. have their own detailed guidelines
 tailored to unique individual requirements, e.g. Manuals or
 Procedure Orders. Many other Ministries/Departments as
 well as CPSEs also have their own Procurement Manuals.
 For these Procuring Entities, this Manual would serve as a
 generic reference." "For procurements financed by Loans/Grants
 extended by International Agencies: The Articles of
 Agreement with the International Agencies, like the World
 Bank, Asian Development Bank etc. stipulate specific
 procurement procedures to be followed by the borrowers.
 The procurement procedures, as finalized and incorporated
 in the Agreements after consideration and approval of the
 Ministry of Finance are to be followed accordingly." 23. Clause 9.8 of the Manual prescribes guidelines for breach of

contract, remedies and termination. Clause 9.9 and Clause 9.9.1, which

provide for Dispute Resolution and Arbitration Clause, respectively, are

reproduced hereunder: 24. A bare reading of the clause 9.9 of the Manual would make it clear

that it is only a suggestion in the Manual that the conditions governing

the contract should contain suitable provisions for settlement of such

disputes or differences binding on both the parties and the mode of

settlement of such disputes should be through arbitration. However, this,

by itself, shall not amount to an arbitration clause. Since the law is well

settled that an arbitration clause by itself is a separate agreement

different than the main agreement between the parties, there cannot be

an implied arbitration agreement in some other document, which is not

signed by the parties. Apart from the fact that the Manual is only a

guideline framed by the Central Government, it remains a fact that this

document has never been executed as an agreement between the
 21 HCJ Arb.Appl.No.26 of 2020 parties. Therefore, clause 9.9 in the Manual suggesting settlement of

dispute by arbitration would not amount to execution of arbitration

agreement between the parties. Since in Garware Wall Ropes Ltd. (supra), it has been held that arbitration clause that is contained in the

sub-contract would not exist as a matter of law until the sub-contract is

duly stamped, it is also to be held logically that an arbitration clause in a

sub-contract or in a separate document, which the parties have placed

reliance subsequently in judicial proceedings, shall not exist as a matter

of law or as a matter of fact until the sub-contract or the separate

document is duly executed between the parties. This Court, thus, finds

that there is no agreement between the parties so as to construe that an

arbitration agreement exists between the parties in terms of Section 7 of

the Act of 1996. Therefore, this application under Section 11(4) & 11(6) preferred by the applicant for appointment of an arbitrator, deserves to

be, and is hereby, dismissed. No costs. Pending miscellaneous

applications, if any, shall stand closed. Sd/- PRASHANT KUMAR MISHRA, CJ

 MRR