Date : 26.11.2024

 Heard Mr. A.M. Bora, learned Senior counsel assisted by Mr. D. K. Baidya,
 learned counsel for the petitioner. Also heard Mr. M. Haloi, learned Standing
 counsel, CBI. Page No.# 2/21 2. By filing this application u/s 483 of BNSS, 2023, the petitioner, Bishal
Phukan, has sought for bail in connection with Dibrugarh P.S. Case No.
352/2024 u/s 316(2)/ 318(4) of BNS, 2023, read with section 21(1),(2),(3)/ 23
of Banning of Unregulated Deposit Scheme Act, 2019 (herein after referred as BUDS Act ), re-registered as RC2212024E0017 of CBI, EO-III, New Delhi. 3. On 02/09/2024 an FIR has been lodged by a police personnel alleging that
one news channel broadcasted a news vide its face book handle surfaced a
video clip portraying the present petitioner of Dibrugarh, a businessman by
profession, was actively indulged in financial scam outside the guidelines laid
down by RBI/SEBI. As reported the petitioner induced the individual to enter
into a notarised agreement with the assurance of high return on investments
and deposited their money into his own demat account against the guidelines
of SEBI. Further, he utilised the fund collected from the public to fulfil his
desire of a lavish lifestyle and that of others associated with him. Thus,
fraudulently betraying his clients who are the general public and fell prey to his
scam. Also it has been alleged that the petitioner induced people to invest in
his unregulated deposit schemes and has fraudulently misappropriated the
depositor's huge sum of money amounting to Rs. 50-60 crores for his personal
gain along with others. Accordingly, a case was registered vide Dibrugarh P.S.
Case No. 352/2024 and subsequently re-registered as RC2212024E0017 of
CBI, EO-III New Delhi. 4. Learned Senior counsel for the petitioner has submitted that the case was
registered u/s 316 (2), 318(4) of BNS read with section 21 / 23 of BUDS Act,
wherein mandatory period of custody is 60 days. The accused/ petitioner has
been languishing in Judicial custody for last 84 days since his arrest on
 Page No.# 3/21

04/09/2024. His mandatory period was expired on 02/11/2024. The bail
application of the present petitioner was filed on 07/11/2024 and on
11/11/2024, the CBI filed a petition before the trial court to add section 316(5)
of BNS, 2023 and accordingly the said section was added. 5. According to learned Senior counsel for the petitioner, as the petitioner
has completed the mandatory period of sixty days in custody on 02/11/2024,
and, thereafter, section 316(5) BNS was added on 11/11/2024, the petitioner is
entitled for default bail. 6. It is further submitted that the allegations made against the accused/
petitioner are frivolous and baseless. The accused has not engaged in any
activity that would constitute the violation of the provisions of the BUDS Act .
There is no credible evidence linking the accused/ petitioner to any
unregulated deposit schemes or fraud as alleged in the FIR. 7. Learned Senior counsel for the petitioner has also raised the point
regarding notification dated 09/10/2024 and 11/10/2024 to accord consent to
the extension of powers and jurisdiction of the members of the Delhi Special
Police Establishment throughout the State of Assam for the investigation of
offences under relevant sections of IPC and BNS and other Acts as mentioned
in the FIR. According to learned Senior counsel, as per section 3 of Delhi Police
Act, the Central Government may by notification in the official gazette specify
the offences or classes of offences which are to be investigated by the Delhi
Police Establishment which is not done in this case, as such CBI has no power
to investigate the same. The learned counsel has also referred a case law - Page No.# 4/21 Kanwal Tanuj vs. State of Bihar and others , reported in
 (2020) 20 SCC 531. 8. Another contention raised by the learned Senior counsel for the petitioner
that all the documents pertaining to the alleged financial scams were seized
and the bank accounts of the petitioner were frozen. The CBI has not
interrogated the accused/petitioner since 02/11/2024 till date. It is also pointed
out that before passing any order by the trial court to add any section, it is
mandatory in law to hear the accused, which has not been done in this case. 9. Learned Senior counsel for the petitioner has also contended that section
30 of BUDS Act, requires reference to be made by competent authority i.e., in
this case by the Commissioner and Secretary, Finance Department Government
of Assam, which is also missing in this case. Learned counsel has also
submitted that Section 35 of BUDS Act is to be applied along with other laws
for the time being in force. Hence, learned Senior counsel for the petitioner
submitted that as there are lots of irregularities found in investigation of the
case and considering the length of detention, the accused/ petitioner may be
enlarged on bail. 10. In response, learned Standing counsel CBI, has vehemently opposed in
granting bail to the petitioner by stating that it is an economic offence and
large amount of public money is involved in the instant case. The accused/
petitioner in collusion with others had been operating an unregulated deposit
scheme, soliciting deposits from investors under the pretext of high returns. He
has executed notarised agreements promising 30% returns on deposits within
60 working days but has defaulted after accepting the deposits. His actions
were found to be in contravention of the statutory provisions of the BUDS Act . Page No.# 5/21

The investigation further reveals that he has also committed a criminal breach
of trust as an agent/broker in respect of the deposits entrusted to him by the
depositors and he misappropriated the sums for his personal gain and
defaulted on the repayments. It is further submitted that his actions as
individual businessman and as proprietor of his firm M/S Percelia Consultancy
in course of business, where prima facie found involving offence u/s 409 IPC
and section 316(5) of BNS, 2023. 11. It is also the submission of learned standing counsel CBI that the
maximum punishment u/s 409 IPC and section 316(5) of BNS is life
imprisonment which provides for a mandatory period of 90 days of judicial
custody. Section 409 IPC was added to the case on 30/10/2024, well before
the completion of 60 days of the accused/ petitioner's arrest. Additionally, the
learned special judge CBI, allowed the custody of the accused petitioner on
30/10/2024 beyond 40 days and 60 days. This is applicable only in cases
where the detention period is 90 days u/s 187(2) of BNSS. Learned Standing
counsel, CBI also pointed out that the accused petitioner did not challenge the
said order of the learned Special Judge, CBI, thereby acknowledging the legal
position emanating from the invocation of section 409 IPC and now has no
locus standi to oppose the same at this stage before the conclusion of the 90
days period. 12. The last limb of argument submitted by learned standing counsel CBI that
the accused/ petitioner has collected Rs. 60 crores, hard earned money from
the common people and till date Rs. 45 crores of rupees are outstanding. The
accused/ petitioner has no plan to return the money to the innocent public.
During custodial interrogation, the accused/ petitioner has failed to justify the
 Page No.# 6/21

expenses made by him for the purposes other than which the funds were
collected from the innocent people. If the accused with such clear cut intention
to cheat the people is released on bail at this stage of investigation, he may
hinder the collection of remaining evidences in the case. 13. Having heard the learned counsel for the parties and on perusal of the
case diary, it is not in dispute that the accused/ petitioner is apparently
involved in large scale financial scam. It is also not in dispute that the accused/
petitioner has been languishing in custody for last 83 days since his arrest on
04/09/2024. It is also an admitted fact that the CBI has filed a petition before
the CBI court to add section 409 IPC and accordingly, the section 409 was
added on 30/10/2024, two days prior to completion of 60 days mandatory
period. As it appears that FIR has been lodged on 02/09/2024 and the case
was registered under the provisions of BNS, 2023 which was introduced since
01/07/2024. But the CBI has preferred to add section 409 IPC by filing a
petition before the CBI court which has already been repealed by that time.
There is no explanation in the petition filed by the CBI before the CBI court to
add the repealed provision in the instant case instead of the similar provision
of BNS under section 316(5). Subsequently, another petition was filed by the
CBI before the CBI court to add section 316(5) of BNS and section 316(5) was
added on 11/11/2024 and by that time the petitioner has completed the
mandatory period of 60 days in judicial custody. The accused/ petitioner then
filed a petition on 07/11/2024 seeking default bail. 14. Keeping in view of the fact that this matter relates to bail application
seeking bail on the ground of default bail, this court is not going to discuss
about the alleged inherent defects like notification under Delhi Police Act or
 Page No.# 7/21

maintainability of BUDS Act etc. Hence, the point in issue to be discussed in
this bail application whether the petitioner is entitled for default bail! 15. Before going to discuss the issue in question, it is apt to mention the
provision of section 167 Cr.PC (Section 187 of BNSS, 2023) which is reproduced
as follows - founded, the officer-in-charge of the police station or the police
 officer making the investigation, if he is not below the rank of sub-
 inspector, shall forthwith transmit to the nearest Judicial Magistrate
 a copy of the entries in the diary hereinafter prescribed relating to
 the case, and shall at the same time forward the accused to such
 Magistrate. (2)The Magistrate to whom an accused person is forwarded under
 this section may, whether he has or has not jurisdiction to try the
 case, from time to time authorise the detention of the accused in
 such custody as such Magistrate thinks fit, for a term not exceeding
 fifteen days in the whole; and if he has no jurisdiction to try the
 case or commit it for trial, and considers further detention
 unnecessary, he may order the accused to be forwarded to a
 Page No.# 8/21

Magistrate having such jurisdiction :Provided that - (a)[ the Magistrate may authorise the detention of the accused
person, otherwise than in the custody of the police, beyond the
period of fifteen days, if he is satisfied that adequate grounds exist
for doing so, but no Magistrate shall authorise the detention of the
accused person in custody under this paragraph for a total period
exceeding, - [Substituted by Act 45 of 1978, Section 13 , for
paragraph (a) (w.e.f. 18-12-1978).] (i)ninety days, where the investigation relates to an offence
punishable with death, imprisonment for life or imprisonment for a
term of not less than ten years; (ii)sixty days, where the investigation relates to any other offence,
and, on the expiry of the said period of ninety days, or sixty days, as
the case may be, the accused person shall be released on bail if he
is prepared to and does furnish bail, and every person released on
bail under this sub-section shall be deemed to be so released under
the provisions of Chapter XXXIII for the purposes of that Chapter;] (b)[ no Magistrate shall authorise detention of the accused in
custody of the police under this Section unless the accused is
produced before him in person for the first time and subsequently
every time till the accused remains in the custody of the police, but
the Magistrate may extend further detention in judicial custody on
production of the accused either in person or through the medium
of electronic video linkage.] [Substituted by the Code of Criminal
 Page No.# 9/21

Procedure (Amendment) Act, 2008 (5 of 2009), Section 14 (a) (i) ,
for Cl. (b). Prior to its substitution, Cl (b) read as under.-[(b) no
Magistrate shall authorise detention in any custody under this
Section unless the accused is produced before him;].] (c)no Magistrate of the second class, not specially empowered in
this behalf by the High Court, shall authorise detention in the
custody of the police. [Explanation I - For the avoidance of doubts, it is hereby declared
that, notwithstanding the expiry of the period specified in paragraph (a), the accused shall be detained in custody so long as he does not
furnish bail.] [Original Explanation numbered as Explanation II
thereof and Explanation I inserted by Act 45 of 1978, Section 13 (w.e.f. 18-12-1978).]

[Explanation II. - If any question arises whether an accused person
was produced before the Magistrate as required under clause (b),
the production of the accused person may be proved by his
signature on the order authorising detention or by the order certified
by the Magistrate as to production of the accused person through
the medium of electronic video linkage, as the case may
be:] [Substituted by the Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment)
Act, 2008 (5 of 2009), Section 14 (a) (ii) , for Explanation II. Prior to
its substitution, Explanation II read as under :- [Explanation II. - If
any question arises whether an accused persons was produced
before the Magistrate as required under paragraph (b), the
 Page No.# 10/21

production of the accused person may be proved by his signature on
the order authorising detention].]

[Provided further that in case of woman under eighteen years of is,
the detention shall be authorised to be in the custody of a remand
home or recognized social institution.] [Inserted by the Code of
Criminal Procedure (Amendment) Act, 2008 (5 of 2009), Section 14 (b).]

[(2-A) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section or (1) sub-
section (2), the officer-in-charge of the police station or the police
officer making the investigation, if he is not below the rank of a sub-
inspector, may, where a Judicial Magistrate is not available, transmit
to the nearest Executive Magistrate, on whom the powers of a
Judicial Magistrate, or Metropolitan Magistrate have been conferred,
a copy of the entry in the diary, hereinafter prescribed relating to
the case, and shall, at the same time, forward the accused to such
Executive Magistrate, and thereupon such Executive Magistrate,
may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, authorise the detention
of the accused person in such custody as he may think fit for a term
not exceeding seven days in the aggregate; and, on the expiry of
the period of detention so authorised, the accused person shall be
released on bail except where an order for further detention of the
accused person has been made by a Magistrate competent to make
such order, and where an order for such further detention is made,
the period during which the accused person was detained in custody
under the orders made by an Executive Magistrate under this sub- Page No.# 11/21

section, shall be taken into account in computing the period
specified in paragraph (a) of the proviso to sub-section (2) : 16. On a bare look at the provision, as per section 167(2) of Cr.PC, if a person
who was arrested and remanded to judicial custody, is entitled to be released
on bail if the investigation is not completed within the prescribed time period
and the final report has not been filed. 17. In the case of Uday Mohanlal Acharaya vs. State of Maharashtra ,
reported in (2001) 5 SCC 453, the Hon'ble Supreme Court reiterated the
legal proposition that on the expiry of the prescribed time period for
investigation, an indefeasible right accrues in favour of the accused to be
released on bail. Similar view was taken by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the
case of Sanjay Dutt vs. State of Maharashtra , reported in (1995) 0
Supreme (SC) 1028. 18. In the case of Sushila Agarwal vs. State(NCT of Delhi) and another ,
reported in (2020) 1 KHC 663, the Hon'ble Supreme Court held that the
investigating officer can investigate the matter and effect recoveries on the
information, if any, given by the accused even while the accused is on bail. 19. In the case of Saravanan vs. State represented by the inspector of
police, reported in (2020) 6 Supreme 665, it was held that only
requirement for getting default/ statutory bail u/s 167(2) Cr.PC is that accused
is in jail for more than 60 or 90 days and within 60 or 90 days, investigation is

not completed and no charge sheet is filed by 60 th or 90th day and accused
 Page No.# 13/21

applies for default bail and is prepared to furnish bail bond. 20. In the case of Sayantan Chatterjee vs. State of West Bengal and
another , reported in (2016) SCC Online Calcutta 4573, it has been held
that the magistrate is not precluded from looking into the facts and material
collected whether the offence is ex-facie made out or not. In sum and
substance, it was the ratio of the said order that merely producing the remand
for extension of detention is not sufficient. The magistrate/ court has to look in
the facts, circumstances and material collected and satisfy whether the section
applied by the investigating officer is supported with material and makes out
the same offence. 21. The police custody or judicial remand is not a bare formality. Suppose the
investigating officer brings new material constituting a new offence under a
particular section during the judicial custody of the accused before the charge
sheet. In that case, the police must bring it to the notice of the accused by
submitting fresh remand papers before the Court. So the accused may have an
opportunity to oppose the further extension of the judicial custody for the new
offence on the basis of the material brought during his judicial custody. 22. The Division Bench of the Bombay High Court in the case of Rajkumar
Bhagchand Jain Vs. Union of India and another , reported in (2019)
ABR (Cri) NOC 93 (BOM), has observed thus; In view of the above observations, the Bombay High Court held that the
 detention beyond the period of 60 days is in clear violation of Section
 167(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. 23. In the case of Ritu Chhabaria vs. Union of India & Ors . reported in
(2023) 4 Supreme 525, it was observed by the Hon'ble Supreme court that - 24. Further, this legal position was again reiterated in Satendar Kumar Antil
v. CBI & Anr. reported in (2021) 10 SCC 773, wherein it was held that Section 167(2) of the Cr.PC is a limb of Article 21 of the Constitution of India,
and as such, the investigating authority is under a constitutional duty to
expedite the process of investigation within the stipulated time, failing which,
the accused is entitled to be released on default bail. The relevant observations
made in the said judgment are as under:- 25. Further, in the case of Ashok Munilal Jain & Anr. v. Assistant
Director, Directorate of Enforcement, reported in (2018) 16 SCC 158 ,
it was held that the right of default bail under section 167(2) Cr.PC was held to
be an indefeasible right of the accused even in matters under PMLA. 26. Considering the facts of the case at hand, it is assumed that the court has
examined the material produced before it at the time of first remand and
based on it, the police custody was granted, and then the accused were taken
in judicial custody. However, in the absence of submitting the remand papers
without knowledge of the accused, the prosecution cannot by a bare filing of
petition addressed to the court, seek the extension of remand more than the
period prescribed under Section 167 of the Cr.PC. As discussed above, the
extension of remand, particularly after adding new sections constituting the
 Page No.# 17/21

serious offence, is not a bare formality. The court extending the detention of
the accused for a period more than prescribed under the law has to pass a
speaking order after hearing both sides, which was not done in this case. The
prosecution did not produce before this court material to believe that the
accused fall under any of the seven categories mentioned in Section 409 of the
Indian Penal Code that the accused are public servants, bankers etc. In view of
that matter, the investigating officer cannot seek an extension of time to file a
charge sheet, as the period of filing the charge sheet has to be determined
from the material and papers produced before the Magistrate/Judge. 27. It is not in dispute that no remand papers were produced before the
learned CBI Judge, Guwahati, for adding section 409 of the Indian Penal Code
and subsequently 316(5) of BNS, 2023. In the petition addressed to the court
for adding the above sections, the court did not pass a speaking order
extending further judicial remand as required under Section 167 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure. 28. Section 167 of the Cr.PC provides that when the investigation cannot be
completed within 24 hours from the arrest of the accused, the investigating
officer, believing that the information or accusation is well-founded, shall
produce the accused before the competent court for the extension of the police
custody of the accused for further investigation. Thereupon the Magistrate or
the competent Court, after considering the necessity of further custody, may
grant police custody. However, the court cannot extend such police custody
exceeding 15 days in whole. 29. Reading the above section carefully, it is clear that granting police custody
after 24 hours of the arrest of the accused is not a bare formality. The
 Page No.# 18/21

investigating officer has to satisfy the court that the accusation and information
are well-founded. The standard practice of remand is well known that soon
after producing the accused before the court, the court hears the accused on
his further detention to police custody. The court examines the papers of
accusation and information and then decides whether further detention of the
accused in police custody is essential. We have an adversarial justice system.
The accused has a right to know what has been alleged against him, and the
court must hear him. Sub- Section 2(a) (i) and (ii) of Section 167 of Cr.P.C. has
prescribed the period of imprisonment that determines the time limit for
submitting the charge sheet to the court and the power of the court to extend
the detention of the accused. It has been provided that the Magistrate or the
Court may extend judicial custody not for a total period exceeding ninety days
where the investigation relates to an offence punishable with death,
imprisonment for life or imprisonment for a term of not less than ten years and
sixty days where the investigation relates to any other offence. On the expiry
of the said period of ninety days or sixty days as the case may be, the accused
person shall be released on bail if he is prepared to and does furnish bail if the
charge sheet has not been filed between the said period. 30. In view of the aforesaid rival contentions, the question is whether barely
addressing a letter to the court and adding further sections for which the
punishment is death/imprisonment for life or imprisonment for a term of not
less than ten years is sufficient to believe that the period of judicial custody
has been automatically extended? 31. The Bombay High Court has dealt with a similar issue in the case of Alnesh Akil Somji vs. The State of Maharashtra , reported in (2022) 3
 Page No.# 19/21

Criminal court cases 198, in that application also, the default bail was
claimed. The Special Judge rejected it on the ground that section 409 of IPC is
applicable, and the prosecution had filed an application invoking section 409 of
the Indian Penal Code. The Special Judge held that the period for filing the
charge sheet was ninety days, not sixty days. In the said case, the applicants
were in the Magistrate custody remand till 11.11.2021 after their arrest on
03.11.2021. The investigating officer, by remand application dated 31st
December 2021 (filed on 3.1.2022) intimated to the Special Judge about
adding/invocation of section 409 of the Indian Penal Code. The Special Court
had passed an order "Seen, note be taken". Considering these facts, the
Bombay High Court held as follows :- 32. In view of the above, this Court is of the view that the ratio laid down in the above cases of Alnesh Akil Somji (supra) and Rajkumar Bhagchand Jain (supra), is squarely applicable to the case in hand. As far as other case laws
are concerned, there is no dispute about the ratio. Once the right to claim the
default bail arises, the accused is entitled to release on bail, and no subterfuge
should have resorted to defeat the indefeasible right. 33. In the result, the bail application is allowed, the accused/ petitioner is
released on bail on furnishing a bond of Rs. 1,00,000/- (Rupees One Lakh)
with two suitable sureties of like amount to the satisfaction of Special Judge,
CBI, Guwahati, Assam, on the conditions that - (i) The petitioner shall attend the concerned investigating agency as
 and when required on till filing of charge sheet. Page No.# 21/21 (ii) The petitioner shall submit his passports, if any, to the trial court. (iii) The petitioner shall not directly or indirectly make any
 inducement, threat or promise to any person acquainted with the facts
 of the case so as to dissuade them from disclosing such facts to the
 court or to any police officer or tamper with the evidence of the case
 in any manner whatsoever. (iv) The petitioner shall not commit any offence, while he is on bail.
 In case of violation of any of the above conditions, the CBI court shall
 be empowered to consider the application for cancellation of bail, if
 any, filed and pass orders on the same, in accordance with law. (v) Needless to mention, it would be well within the powers of the
 investigating agency to investigate the matter and if necessary, to
 effect recoveries on the information, if any, given by the petitioner,
 even while the petitioner is on bail, as laid down by the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court in the case of Sushila Agarwal (Supra). 34.With the above observations, the bail application is disposed of. JUDGE

Comparing Assistant