1. The petitioner, incarcerating upon his arrest in the FIR captioned above, has come
up before this Court under Section 439 of Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 ( CrPC )
seeking bail. 2. As per para 22 of the bail petition, the petitioner has no criminal antecedents. 3. Petitioner's counsel prays for bail by imposing any stringent conditions. The
petitioner contends that the pre-trial incarceration would cause an irreversible injustice
to the petitioner and family. 4. While opposing the bail, the State contends the accused is likely to indulge in
crime once released on bail. REASONING: 5. The allegations are that the accused was running a racket through mobile app
Hugo Loan . They would entice needy people for easy loans and when the app would be
downloaded, it would seek access to the contacts and gallery. Thereon, the app would 1 1 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 22-05-2023 01:19:02 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2023:PHHC:071852 2 CRM-M-18946-2023
how them eligible for meagre amounts of loan and after realising the eligibility, the
persons would not continue with the loan application .However, in the meantime, the
application downloaded all contacts and photographs to find intimate ones and then
blackmail the persons by threatening to share the same with all their contacts , whose
phone details have already been downloaded. 6. As per custody certificate, the petitioner is in custody since 26.09.2022. Even a
prima facie perusal of paragraph 5 of the bail petition needs consideration for bail. A
prima facie perusal of the victim's statement and her conduct points towards various
connotations, and there would be no justification for pre-trial incarceration. While
deciding bail petitions, the courts neither indict nor absolve the accused and just
confine to the justification for pre-trial incarceration when the allegations are one-
sided without any opportunity for the accused for rebuttal. 7. The possibility of the accused influencing the investigation, tampering with
evidence, intimidating witnesses, and the likelihood of fleeing justice, can be taken care
of by imposing elaborative and stringent conditions. In Sushila Aggarwal, (2020) 5 SCC 1,
Para 92, the Constitutional Bench held that unusually, subject to the evidence
produced, the Courts can impose restrictive conditions. 8. Without commenting on the case's merits, in the facts and circumstances peculiar
to this case, and for the reasons mentioned above, the petitioner makes a case for bail,
subject to the following terms and conditions, which shall be over and above and
irrespective of the contents of the form of bail bonds in chapter XXXIII of CrPC , 1973. 9. In Mahidul Sheikh v. State of Haryana, Neutral Citation No: 2022:PHHC:003277,
[Para 53], [Law Finder Doc Id # 1933969], this Court observed,

 [53]. The pragmatic approach is that while granting bail with
 sureties, the "Court" and the "Arresting Officer" should give a choice
 to the accused to either furnish surety bonds or to handover a fixed
 deposit, or direct electronic money transfer where such facility is
 available, or creating a lien over his bank account. The accused
 should also have a further option to switch between the modes. The
 option lies with the accused to choose between the sureties and
 deposits and not with the Court or the arresting officer. 10. Given above, provided the petitioner is not required in any other case, the
petitioner shall be released on bail in the FIR captioned above, in the following terms: OR (b) Petitioner to hand over to the concerned court a fixed deposit for Rs. Ten Thousand
only (INR 10,000/-) , with the clause of automatic renewal of the principal and the
interest reverting to the linked account, made in favor of the 'Chief Judicial Magistrate'
of the concerned district. Said fixed deposit may be made from any of the banks where
the stake of the State is more than 50% or any of the well-established and stable
private sector banks. The fixed deposit need not necessarily be made from the
petitioner's account. (c). Such court shall have a lien over the deposit until the case's closure or discharged
by substitution, or up to the expiry of the period mentioned under S. 437-A CrPC, 1973,
and at that stage, subject to the proceedings under S. 446 CrPC, the entire amount of
fixed deposit, less taxes if any, shall be endorsed/returned to the depositor. (d). It shall be the total discretion of the petitioner to choose between surety bond and
fixed deposit. It shall also be open for the petitioner to apply to the Investigator or the
concerned court to substitute the fixed deposit with surety bonds and vice-versa. (e). On the reverse page of personal bond, the petitioner shall mention her/his
permanent address along with the phone number, preferably that number which is
linked with the AADHAR, and e-mail (if any). In case of any change in the above
particulars, the petitioner shall immediately and not later than 30 days from such
modification, intimate about the change to the concerned police station and the
concerned court. (f). The petitioner is to also execute a bond for attendance in the concerned court(s) as
and when asked to do so. The presentation of the personal bond shall be deemed
acceptance of the declarations made in the bail petition and all other stipulations,
terms, and conditions of section 438(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, and
also of this bail order. 11. The petitioner shall not influence, browbeat, pressurize, make any inducement,
threat, or promise, directly or indirectly, to the witnesses, the Police officials, or any
other person acquainted with the facts and the circumstances of the case, to dissuade
them from disclosing such facts to the Police, or the Court, or to tamper with the
evidence. 12. Within fifteen days from release from the prison, the petitioners shall forward on
separate notarized affidavits, to the Investigator/SHO and the complainant/victim(s) the
complete details of bank account numbers with addresses, fixed deposits, DEMAT
account numbers, the current market value of jewelry, sovereign metals, all precious
articles, held either individually or jointly, and cash-in-hand. If the petitioner fails to
comply with this condition, then on this ground alone, the bail might be canceled, and
the complainant may file any such application for the cancellation of bail, and State
shall file the said application. 3 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 22-05-2023 01:19:02 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2023:PHHC:071852 4 CRM-M-18946-2023 13. Within fifteen days of release from prison, the petitioner shall procure a
smartphone and inform its IMEI number and other details to the SHO/I.O. of the Police
station mentioned above. The petitioner shall always keep the phone location/GPS on
the "ON" mode. Whenever the Investigating officer asks to share the location, the
petitioner shall immediately do so. The petitioner shall neither clear the location
history, WhatsApp chats, call logs nor format the phone without permission of the
concerned SHO/I.O. This condition shall continue till the completion of the trial or
closure of case, whichever is earlier. 14. During the trial's pendency, if the petitioner repeats or commits any offence
where the sentence prescribed is more than seven years or violates any condition as
stipulated in this order, it shall always be permissible to the respondent to apply for
cancellation of this bail. It shall further be open for any investigating agency to bring it
to the notice of the Court seized of the subsequent application that the accused was
earlier cautioned not to indulge in criminal activities. Otherwise, the bail bonds shall
remain in force throughout the trial and after that in Section 437-A of the Cr.P.C., if not
canceled due to non-appearance or breach of conditions. 15. The conditions mentioned above imposed by this Court are to endeavour that the
accused tries to reform, does not repeat the offence and to provide an opportunity to
the victim to consider legal remedies for recovery of the amount. In Mohammed Zubair
v. State of NCT of Delhi, Writ Petition (Criminal) No 279 of 2022, Para 29, decided on
July 20, 2022, A Three-Judge bench of Hon'ble Supreme Court holds that "The bail
conditions imposed by the Court must not only have a nexus to the purpose that they
seek to serve but must also be proportional to the purpose of imposing them. The
courts while imposing bail conditions must balance the liberty of the accused and the
necessity of a fair trial. While doing so, conditions that would result in the deprivation
of rights and liberties must be eschewed.". In Mohammed Zubair v. State of NCT of
Delhi, Writ Petition (Criminal) No 279 of 2022, Para 29, decided on July 20, 2022, A
Three-Judge bench of Hon'ble Supreme Court holds that "The bail conditions imposed
by the Court must not only have a nexus to the purpose that they seek to serve but
must also be proportional to the purpose of imposing them. The courts while imposing
bail conditions must balance the liberty of the accused and the necessity of a fair trial.
While doing so, conditions that would result in the deprivation of rights and liberties
must be eschewed." 16. Any Advocate for the petitioner and the Officer in whose presence the petitioner
puts signatures on personal bonds shall explain all conditions of this bail order in any
language that the petitioner understands. 4 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 22-05-2023 01:19:02 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2023:PHHC:071852 5 CRM-M-18946-2023 17. If the petitioner finds bail condition(s) as violating fundamental, human, or other
rights, or causing difficulty due to any situation, then for modification of such term(s),
the petitioner may file a reasoned application before this Court, and after taking
cognizance, even to the Court taking cognizance or the trial Court, as the case may be,
and such Court shall also be competent to modify or delete any condition. 18. Any observation made hereinabove is neither an expression of opinion on the
merits of the case nor shall the trial Court advert to these comments. 19. In return for the protection from incarceration, the Court believes that the
accused shall also reciprocate through desirable behavior. 20. The SHO of the concerned police station or the investigating officer shall arrange
to send a copy of this order, preferably a soft copy, to the complainant and the victim,
without any delay. If the victim(s) notice any violation of this order, they may inform the
SHO of the concerned police station, the trial court, or even this court. 21. There would be no need for a certified copy of this order for furnishing bonds, and
any Advocate for the Petitioner can download this order along with case status from the
official web page of this Court and attest it to be a true copy. In case the attesting officer
wants to verify the authenticity, such an officer can also verify its authenticity and may
download and use the downloaded copy for attesting bonds. Petitions are allowed in aforesaid terms. All pending applications, if any, stand
disposed.