1. Rajani Bachu Bhai @ Rajani Bhai Bachu Bhai Hirani 2. Lalit Patel @ Lalit Bhai Praveen Bhai Nabadia
 .... .... .... Petitioners
 Versus
The State of Jharkhand .... .... .... Opposite Party

CORAM: HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE GAUTAM KUMAR CHOUDHARY

For the Petitioners : Mr. Vishal Kumar Trivedi, Advocate
For the State : Mr. Shiv Shankar Kumar, A.P.P.

Oral Order
06/ Dated :22.06.2022

 The anticipatory bail application filed on behalf of petitioners- Rajani
Bachu Bhai @ Rajani Bhai Bachu Bhai Hirani and Lalit Patel @ Lalit Bhai Praveen
Bhai Nabadia, who are apprehending their arrest in connection with Chakradharpur
P.S. Case No.90 of 2019 for the offence registered under Sections 406 , 420 , 34 of
the Indian Penal Code pending in the Court of learned S.D.J.M., Porahat, Chaibasa,
is pressed into motion. The prosecution case in brief as disclosed in the complaint filed by one
Harish Chandra Laguri, is that the informant along with other investors participated
in a meeting held in Sagar Hotel, Tata, Jamshedpur in which the promoter Shankar
Akela of Best Business Crypto Currency Company and its Director, Hirani Rajani
Bachu Bhai @ Rajani Bhai Bachu Bhai Hirani briefed the investor about investment
in the company. In this meeting, the petitioners disclosed their website and address
of the company. The informant collected Rs.55-60 lacs from different investors and
deposited the same in different bank account. The details of account in which the
amount had been deposited, has been set out in the F.I.R. During meeting, it was
assured by the promoters investment in Bitcoin will yield high return. Later on he
came to know that no business transaction had taken place and they were cheated of
the sum invested. In this background, the matter was tried to be settled but there was
an outstanding dues of Rs.44 lakhs till March, 2019 which was promised to be
returned regarding which written undertaking was also given, but was not returned. It is submitted by the learned counsel that the petitioners have no concern
with the offence and they were also investors and had no concern with Sanjay Singh
and Shankar Akela. It is submitted by the learned counsel that only Rs.2,40,000/-
has been deposited in the account of petitioner no.1 and Rs.11,53,000/- was
deposited in the account of Company Yadgar Enterprise to petitioner no.2. Out of
deposited amount, Rs.2,36,000/- has been returned by both the petitioners to the
investors. It is further submitted that two Bitcoins worth Rs.11,42,120/- have been
 given to the informant. In support of it, bank statement has been annexed as
 Annexure-2. Photocopy of the same has been annexed and marked as Annexure-4.
 On 28.06.2018, the value of each Bitcoin was $ 16,316.56. It is further submitted
 that the informant has already spent Rs.12 lacs in his travelling and other expenses
 from the investment made by different investors and only to save his skin, the
 present case has been filed. It is argued that as per account details of petitioner no.1,
 it will be evident that the averment made regarding receipt of only Rs.2,40,000/- to
 petitioner no.1, is supported by Annexure-2 which is bank statement of the account
 as referred to in the F.I.R. Apart from this, he had not received any amount from any
 investors.. Learned A.P.P. has opposed the prayer for bail. It is submitted that
 investment was taken by Yadgar Enterprise in which petitioner no.2 was C.M.D. and
 petitioner no.1 was M.D. The matter involves duping the investors by offer of heavy
 return in the investment in Bitcoins. The petitioners are named in the F.I.R. and there
 is direct and specific allegation that amounts were deposited in their account by the
 investors. The fraud in the name of investment was committed jointly by the accused
 persons and part of the sum was deposited in the account of these petitioners who
 acted in cohort with other accused person. Considering the facts and circumstance of the case, I do not find this case
 fit to grant anticipatory bail. Accordingly, the prayer for anticipatory bail of the
 petitioners, is hereby, rejected. Petitioners are directed to surrender before the Court below within two
 weeks. (Gautam Kumar Choudhary, J.)
Anit