W.P.No.10258 of 2020: 2. The petitioners claim to be Directors of M/s.Mantri

Developers Pvt. Ltd., a builder and a land development Company. It is the averment in the petition that the petitioners have delivered

scores of projects all over the country. The 2nd respondent is the

complainant. The 2nd respondent and few other members - investment based purchasers approached the petitioners/Company

seeking purchase of flats in the project "Mantri Serenity" and

accordingly applied for allotment of flats. Pursuant to the offer, the

complainant and other members execute certain agreements for

sale of undivided share of land and construction agreement inter

alia. The project does not get completed in time, there is delay. Due to the said delay, the complainant flags certain dishonest

intentions and the averment in the petition is that he began to

register threats and several complaints before various fora. It is

the claim in the petition that due to intervening circumstances of

recessions, complaints to the Karnataka State Pollution Control

Board and other irregularities had resulted in delay of the project. The project gets completed and occupancy certificate is also

received by the Authorities. The complainant moves the Real

Estate Regulatory Authority ('RERA' for short) on several grievances

and seeks to register a complaint before the jurisdictional police for

the afore-quoted offences. 3. The complaint was that they are the unfortunate

homebuyers in 'Mantri Serenity' promoted by Mantri Castles Pvt. Ltd., an associate and subsidiary of Mantri Developers Pvt. Ltd.,

The complaint narrates that he has paid more than Rs.69 lakhs as

per construction link plan and other homebuyers have paid Rs.60-

70 lakhs on an average or higher. The complaint alleges

misrepresentation, money laundering and fraud against the

homebuyers on the ground that the homes have not been given at 7 the appropriate time and the funds collected from all the

homebuyers have been utilized, diverted or misutilised for several

other purposes. It further claims that the property that the

homebuyers should get have already been mortgaged to several

Banks for the purpose of securing loan and the loan secured have

been invested to some other purpose. Based upon the said

complaint, a crime comes to be registered in Crime No.163 of 2020

for offences punishable under Sections as afore-quoted. After

registration of the crime, the petitioners knock at the doors of this

Court in the subject petition. This Court grants an interim order of

stay of further investigation against the petitioners. The said

interim order of stay is in subsistence even as on date. 4. Heard the learned senior counsel Sri.C.V.Nagesh appearing

for the petitioners, learned High Court Government Pleader

appearing for respondent No.1 and Sri.Dhananjaya, 2nd

respondent/party-in- person. 5. The learned senior counsel by taking Court through the

documents appended to the petition and several other documents 8 either by the petitioners or by the 2nd respondent-complainant

would seek to demonstrate that the entire issue arises out of a

contract between the developers and builders of "Mantri Serenity" MANU/SC/0470/2023 (iii) RAMESH CHANDRA GUPTA V. STATE OF U.P. - 2022(4)

 CRIMES 573 (SC) - MANU/SC/1551/2022 (iv) SMART OWNERS SERVICES INDIA PVT. LTD., V. STATE OF

 KARNATAKA - CRLP.6199 OF 2020 (v) GOVINDARAJA V. STATE OF KARNATAKA - W.P.NO.101203

 OF 2021 - MANU/KA/0703/2022. 6. On the other hand, the complainant/2nd respondent-in- person by elaborating the complaint and plethora documents placed 10 before this Court seeks to contend that the Directors of the

Company have indulged in money laundering, they have invested

the funds received by the homebuyers in several Banks by

mortgaging the property that the homebuyers is entitled to hold on

to. He would seek to contend that if this is not cheating, nothing

else can be termed to be cheating at the hands of the developers

qua the poor homebuyers. He would submit that the matter is still

at the stage of investigation and even the Enforcement Directorate

has initiated several proceedings against the petitioners, therefore,

the proceedings must be permitted to be continued against these

petitioners, as there are several issues that would spring up if

investigation is permitted. The respondent-in-person would seek to

rely on several interlocutory orders passed by the co-ordinate

benches of this Court seeking to contend that this Court had

directed to resolve the issue amicably by executing sale deeds in

favour of every aggrieved homebuyer, but the petitioners have not

adhered to it and have thus committed contempt. 7. In reply, the learned senior counsel would submit that

every aggrieved homebuyer today has come forward and a sale 11 deed is executed in their favour, nobody has grievance whatsoever,

it is only the complainant who wants to project himself as messiah

of the homebuyers, wanting to continue litigation and not come

forward to execute the sale deed. He would submit that the

demand of the complainant is something that 800 homebuyers

have not demanded and all the 800 homebuyers have come

forward to get the sale deeds registered in terms of the agreements

entered into between the developer and the homebuyers. It is only

the complainant who is wanting to throw a spanner in the spoke. W.P.No.7855 of 2023: 8. The subject petition calls in question proceedings instituted

by the Enforcement Directorate. The facts that led to registration

of an Enforcement Case Information Report (ECIR) is the same as is

found in the companion petition. The Enforcement Directorate

takes queue from crime No.163 of 2020 registered on 30-08-2020. Therefore, the offence in the ECIR is an offshoot of the complaint so

registered by the respondent-in-person in the companion petition,

so to say, that the predicate offence for the offence under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act is the FIR in Crime No.163 of 12 2020. Therefore, the right of the Enforcement Directorate to

continue against the petitioners would be subject to the result of

the proceedings in W.P.No.10258 of 2020 wherein Crime No.163 of

2020 registered against the petitioners is called in question. Therefore, I deem it appropriate to notice the facts and contentions

after arriving at a decision on the challenge to the crime in Crime

No.163 of 2020. 9. I have given my anxious consideration to the submissions

made by the respective learned counsel and have perused the

material available on record. 10. The afore-narrated facts are not in dispute. The 2nd

respondent is the complainant and his status of being the

homebuyer is not in dispute. He along with others claims to have

invested money as a homebuyer to the tune of Rs.69 lakhs and

there is delay in the project of the petitioners. Since the entire

issue has sprung from the complaint so registered under Section

154 of the Cr.P.C., I deem it appropriate to notice the complaint in

its entirety. The complaint reads as follows: I am/we are one/some of unfortunate Home buyers in
Mantri Serenity promoted by Mantri Castles Pvt Ltd (formerly
known as Land Masters Realtors Pvt Ltd), which is an
associate company and or subsidiary of Mantri Developers
Private Ltd (MDPL) (Holding Company). I myself paid more
than Rs 69 Lakhs so far as per construction linked plan.
Many of Home buyer have paid Rs 60-70 Lakhs on an
average or higher (Including Bank Borrowed in an existing
Mantri Serenity project at Kanakapura Road. As per our
rough estimate, there are other home buyers of over 1200
families together invested Rs 1350 Crores approximately
(Home buyers and Bank/NBFCs (Piramal Finance). 4. Launching various Ponzi schemes and in collusion
with the arrangement with Various banks known and in
known including PNB Housing, ICICI, HDFC and such other
banks and Non banking financial companies (NBFC), window
dressing and rosily painted schemes induced many home
buyers showing misleading brochures, falsification of delivery
time lines under various subvention schemes. Flats are not
delivered even after seven to ten years after taking Home
buyer deposits. We are ordinary common middle-class
citizens and Project is stalled for the last two years. We
suspect a big scam of financial bungling, fraud, cheating.
funds diversion and money laundering etc. All these are acts
of cheating punishable under Section 420 of the Indian Penal
Code, 1860-

 Some of Misrepresentation, Money laundering, Fraud
against Home buyers

 Misrepresentation of Varying timelines in the
 same tower and in the same floor

 Advance money for 50% flats received in 2013
 to 2015 itself even before migrating to RERA
 when the project is 2-5 years old Booking on
 15th at 2013

 Window dressing and rosily painted schemes
 with incentives never honoured as of date 17 Unilateral and arbitrary documentation with no
 exit clause except with huge penalty. Some of flats are registered even before
 completion from 2012-2018 in violation of BBMP
 norms and not completed even today

 Swapping of non-existent flats from other
 apartments from developers and within Serenity
 transfer to other flats at new rates 5. Complaint against the Promoters, founders,
directors of Mantri Developers Pvt Ltd and or Mantri Castles
Pvt Ltd and such other associate group companies and
entities and against their key managerial personnel we allege
that the Accused no.1, Mr. Sushil Pandurang Mantri, Accused
no. 2, Mr. Pratik Sushil Mantri & Accused No. 3. Mrs Snehal
Mantri, the erstwhile executive director of MDPL and such
other Director(s) of Mantri Developers Pvt. Ltd and known
business associates, partners associated with the Project
serenity and also unknown Key Managerial personnel who
have indulged in cheating, criminal breach of trust with
regards to the Home buyers deposits for the project named - 6. There is a suspected case of money laundering,
diversion of funds and collusion Cheating and diverted our
money for their own personal usage or such other fraudulent
purposes and thereby depriving the funds for Construction
and hence stalled the project for the last two years since
2018-19. Govts and courts to help us to save our money give
us our dream homes and investigate Mantri Developer Group
misdeeds before they escape to foreign shores (An article
published in Jayakirana news paper on 28th August 2020) 7. Due to the behaviour and collusive nature of the
business transactions with their associates of the Accused,
the Complainant has suffered financial loss to the tune of
(mention the amount in Rupees). Home buyers are incurring
huge EMI costs of Rs 40 000 pm (minimum) and rent on
leased homes for stay Rs 20000 (minimum) together coming
to Rs 60000 pm or Say 720000 per annum and lost 18 approximately 25 Lakhs on my opportune cost of additional
interest and rents even with out delivery of our homes
Interest and rent home buyers are all forced to pay due to
delayed delivery of homes due to their negligence,
inefficiency and failure to do fiduciary responsibility in taking
care of public money by Mantri group of companies. 8. Many middle class, senior citizens, Housewives have
invested their hard-earned life savings and including bank
borrowable in spite facing a lot of hardships. Being ordinary
citizens, we are not familiar with the detailed verification of
their financial dealings and agreements. We sincerely pray to
do justice to deliver our homes and also reasonable
compensation for the delay period as per the guidelines from
Supreme court or consumer forums etc whatever be deemed
fit after the detailed investigation of cheating, fraud and
collusion. 9. Date or period when the offence took place: During
2010-2017 for group. (Vide remittances were made for Rs 70
lakhs to Rs One crore for each flat at varying periods). 10. The Complainant has requested the accused
several times to reimburse the amount of loss suffered by
him/her, in some cases honouring the agreements
commitments but to no avail 11. We have heard bad news in paper this month
related to Mantri Developers which is making us worried and
concerned about our home and our invested money: - https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/in
 dia- business/icici-bank-takes-possession-of-
 mantri-corporate- office/articleshow/77457894.cms

 • An article came in news paper "Jayakirana" on
 28th August 2020 which is little scary for us.
 The article questions, if Mantri founders
 planning to escape from the country!! The 19 printed copy of the PDF we received is attached
 with this complaint. 12. That the Complainant submits that no suit has
 been filed by the following before any other court in territory
 of India in relation to this complaint. 13.The complainant, therefore, prays that- (a) appropriate proceeding be initiated against the
 accused under Section 415 and 420 of the Cr.P.C.. (b) A detailed investigation of the usage of Home
 buyers deposit funds for the project and on such
 investigation a proper follow up action by the police. (c) the accused be convicted of the offence under Section 420 of the IPC. (d) the accused be ordered to deliver our homes with
 in next 6 months along with for delay as per Supreme Court
 directions or refund of all moneys with bank rate of interest
 and pay compensation for monetary loss suffered by
 complainant to the tune of Rs 25,00,000 for each home
 buyer or flat towards damages and unspecified damages to
 defray he financial hardships and sufferings. (e) any other relief/(s) or settlement be granted as it
 may deem fit and proper in the said circumstances." What can be gathered from the complaint is, the complainant

describes himself to be an unfortunate homebuyer and seeks to

demonstrate various aspects of misrepresentation on the part of the

petitioners. The crux lies in the 4th paragraph. It is alleged that

several ponzi schemes are launched in collusion and arrangements 20 with various Banks and other non-banking financial Companies. Brochures notified by them are misleading, flats are not delivered

even after 7-10 years after taking deposits from the homebuyers. A case of suspected money laundering was also sought to be made

out by the complainant. A little history to the complaint is required

to be noticed. 11. The Mantri Senenity notified calling for expressions of

interest from various citizens who were interested to buy homes. The complainant also applied for an allotment. The application for

allotment of the complainant is dated 10.10.2013. The details of

unit applied for allotment and the other demand of the complainant

is depicted in the application for allotment. A sum of Rs.7,18,540/- was deposited towards the booking amount. An agreement is

entered into between the parties. The agreement is between one

Gokulam Shelters and Mantri Castles Pvt. Ltd., Certain clauses of

the agreement which are germane are required to be noticed. Clauses 8 and 1 of the agreement reads as follows: Clause 11.1 reads as follows: What is depicted in the agreement is seen and accepted by the

complainant, as the complainant has also signed the document. Next comes the agreement for construction. These conditions are 22 also accepted and the complainant signs on the document. Though

6-7 years have passed by, the apartments are not delivered. It is

then the complainant seeks to knock at the doors of RERA and

several other fora and then registers the aforesaid crime. After

registration of the crime, the petitioners have preferred the subject

petition and this Court has interdicted further investigation. A slew

of orders are passed by this Court from time to time. One such

order assumes significance and is required to be noticed and the

order is dated 01.06.2023 which reads as follows: Interim order granted earlier is extended till the next date
 of hearing. List these petitions on 06.04.2023." In terms of the said orders, the learned Senior Counsel
submits that out of seventeen home buyers who had complained
of non-registration of sale deeds, fourteen sale deeds have been
registered; two of them are abroad and therefore those sale
deeds are not registered and the one that remains is the
respondent party-in-person. The learned Senior Counsel would
submit that insofar as the sale deeds that have not been
registered of the remaining complainants, those sale deeds
would also be executed forthwith subject to the condition that
they would fulfill the criteria of payment as is observed by this
Court in the aforesaid order dated 20th March, 2023.
Respondent party-in-person would contend that the sale deeds
have been executed but without undivided share, which is
contrary to law. If that be so, it is contrary to the order passed
by this Court. Learned Senior Counsel would submit that the sale deeds
have been executed with undivided share and that same would
be executed in favour of the respondent party-in-person.
Learned Senior Counsel would further submit that in cases
where sale deeds are executed, possession is not handed over
and it shall be delivered forthwith on the condition that they
would clear all the dues of payment, as the case would be. The
submission is placed on record. The respondent shall be at the office of the petitioners at
 10.30 pm on 05th June, 2023 and without any hindrance, if all
 payment is made by the respondent party-in-person, the sale
 deed shall be executed at 3.00 pm on the said date and the
 same shall be produced before this Court on the next date of
 hearing. List the matter on 06th June, 2023 at 2.30 p.m. for further
 hearing. Interim order subsisting as on the date, stands extended
 till the next date of hearing." This Court recorded the earlier orders passed by the co-ordinate

Bench and while observing that the petitioners have expressed their

desire to settle the dispute amicably, the Court considers it

appropriate to direct the petitioners to hold a meeting with the

complainant. Therefore, this Court had passed the afore-quoted

order that the sale deed would be executed forthwith without any

hindrance. Every other aggrieved person like the complainant has

come forward and the sale deed is executed, but the complainant

refuses to accede to the execution of sale deed. The reason the

complainant projects is that they have been not given the undivided

share as is necessary in law. 12. The learned senior counsel for the petitioners, on the

strength of the documents, has sought to demonstrate that in case

of every other person sale deed is already executed. If 1800

homebuyers have executed a sale deed of a particular nature, the

complainant, prima facie, cannot seem to ask something beyond

what the agreement says or beyond what this Court has indicated

on 29-03-2023, be those as they may. The question that requires

consideration is, whether on these issues can the criminal law that

is set into motion be permitted to be continued? Therefore, I deem

it appropriate to notice the offences alleged against the petitioners,

they are Sections 406 , 420 , 417 of the IPC. Section 406 of the IPC

deals with criminal breach of trust, ingredients of which are found in Section 405 of the IPC and it reads as follows: Explanation 1 -- A person, being an employer 3 of an
 establishment whether exempted under section 17 of the
 Employees' Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act,
 1952 (19 of 1952) or not who deducts the employee's 27 contribution from the wages payable to the employee for credit
 to a Provident Fund or Family Pension Fund established by any
 law for the time being in force, shall be deemed to have been
 entrusted with the amount of the contribution so deducted by
 him and if he makes default in the payment of such contribution
 to the said Fund in violation of the said law, shall be deemed to
 have dishonestly used the amount of the said contribution in
 violation of a direction of law as aforesaid. Explanation 2.-- A person, being an employer, who
 deducts the employees' contribution from the wages payable to
 the employee for credit to the Employees' State Insurance Fund
 held and administered by the Employees' State Insurance
 Corporation established under the Employees' State Insurance
 Act, 1948 (34 of 1948), shall be deemed to have been entrusted
 with the amount of the contribution so deducted by him and if
 he makes default in the payment of such contribution to the said
 Fund in violation of the said Act, shall be deemed to have
 dishonestly used the amount of the said contribution in violation
 of a direction of law as aforesaid." Section 405 of the IPC mandates that whoever entrusted with the

property, dishonestly misappropriates or converts it to his own use,

would become punishable under Section 406 of the IPC for criminal

breach of trust. The other allegation is cheating under Section 420 of the IPC. To drive home the offence of cheating under Section 420 of the IPC, the ingredients of Section 415 of the IPC will have to be

satisfied. Section 415 of the IPC reads as follows: Explanation.--A dishonest concealment of facts is a
 deception within the meaning of this section." Whoever by deceiving any person fraudulently or dishonestly

induces the person to deliver any property to the accused, the

victim is said to have cheated. Therefore, the soul of the provision

is dishonest intention from the inception of the transaction. 13. Beyond Sections 406 and 420 of the IPC, what is alleged

is Section 417 of the IPC as well. Section 417 deals with

punishment for cheating. Therefore, it need not be separately dealt

with, as the ingredients of Section 415 of the IPC are necessary to

be present even in an offence alleged under Section 417 of the IPC. Section 415 is the definition and not the offence, therefore, it is

wrongly laid in the crime. 14. The complaint is as extracted hereinabove. The allegation

is that the petitioners are not adhering to grant of an undivided 29 share in the property in terms of the agreement. Wherefrom

criminal breach of trust or cheating would emerge is

ununderstandable. The complainant is also a homebuyer like every

other homebuyer. All other homebuyers have got their properties

registered on execution of the sale deed. If the execution of the

sale deed is not accepted by the complainant, it cannot mean that it

would become a criminal breach of trust or cheating, as the case

would be, as there is no dishonest intention right from the inception

of the transaction by the petitioners. 15. The Apex Court, in plethora of judgments, has considered

the aspect of breach of contract and has clearly held that a criminal

law cannot be set into motion on mere breach of contract. The

Apex Court in the case of SUSHIL SETHI v. STATE OF

ARUNACHAL PRADESH1 holds as follows:- The appellants purchased the turbines for the project
 from another manufacturer. The company used the said
 turbines in the power project. The contract was in the
 year 1993. Thereafter in the year 1996 the project was
 commissioned. In the year 1997, the Department of
 Power issued a certificate certifying satisfaction over the
 execution of the project. Even the defect liability period
 ended/expired in January 1998. In the year 2000, there
 was some defect found with respect to three turbines.
 Immediately, the turbines were replaced. The power
 project started functioning right from the very
 beginning--1996 onwards. If the intention of the
 company/appellants was to cheat the Government of
 Arunachal Pradesh, they would not have replaced the
 turbines which were found to be defective. In any case,
 there are no specific allegations and averments in the
 complaint that the accused had fraudulent or dishonest
 intention at the time of entering into the contract.
 Therefore, applying the law laid down by this Court in the
 aforesaid decisions, it cannot be said that even a prima
 facie case for the offence under Section 420 IPC has been
 made out." (Emphasis supplied)

 Later, the Apex Court in the case of MITESH KUMAR J.SHA

V. STATE OF KARNATAKA2 holds as follows: (Emphasis supplied)

 The Apex Court in the case of VIJAY KUMAR GHAI v. STATE OF WEST BENGAL3 has held as follows: 48. At the outset, Respondent No. 2/Complainant
alleged that the Appellants were responsible for the
offence punishable under Section 420 , 405 , 406 , 120B IPC. Therefore, it is also imperative to examine the
ingredients of the said offences and whether the
allegations made in the complaint, read on their face,
attract those offences under the Penal Code. 49. Section 405 of IPC defines Criminal Breach of Trust
which reads as under:-- 50. The essential ingredients of the offense of criminal
breach of trust are:-- 51. "Entrustment" of property under Section 405 of
the Penal Code, 1860 is pivotal to constitute an offence
under this. The words used are, 'in any manner entrusted
with property'. So, it extends to entrustments of all kinds
whether to clerks, servants, business partners or other
persons, provided they are holding a position of 'trust'. A
person who dishonestly misappropriates property
entrusted to them contrary to the terms of an obligation
imposed is liable for a criminal breach of trust and is
punished under Section 406 of the Penal Code. 52. The definition in the section does not restrict the
property to movables or immoveable alone. This Court in R K
Dalmia v. Delhi Administration22 held that the word 'property' is
used in the Code in a much wider sense than the expression
'moveable property'. There is no good reason to restrict the
meaning of the word 'property' to moveable property only when
it is used without any qualification in Section 405. 53. In Sudhir Shantilal Mehta v. CBI23 it was observed
that the act of criminal breach of trust would, Interalia mean
using or disposing of the property by a person who is entrusted
with or has otherwise dominion thereover. Such an act must not
only be done dishonestly but also in violation of any direction of
law or any contract express or implied relating to carrying out
the trust. 54. Section 415 of IPC define cheating which reads
as under:-- 55. The essential ingredients of the offense of cheating
are: 56. A fraudulent or dishonest inducement is an essential
ingredient of the offence. A person who dishonestly induces
another person to deliver any property is liable for the offence of
cheating. 57. Section 420 IPC defines cheating and dishonestly
inducing delivery of property which reads as under:-- 58. Section 420 IPC is a serious form of cheating that
includes inducement (to lead or move someone to happen) in
terms of delivery of property as well as valuable securities. This
section is also applicable to matters where the destruction of the
property is caused by the way of cheating or inducement. Punishment for cheating is provided under this section which
may extend to 7 years and also makes the person liable to fine. 59. To establish the offence of Cheating in inducing
the delivery of property, the following ingredients need to
be proved:-- 64. Having gone through the complaint/FIR and
even the chargesheet, it cannot be said that the
averments in the FIR and the allegations in the complaint
against the appellant constitute an offence under Section
405 & 420 Penal Code, 1860. Even in a case where
allegations are made in regard to failure on the part of
the accused to keep his promise, in the absence of a
culpable intention at the time of making promise being
absent, no offence under Section 420 IPC can be said to
have been made out. In the instant case, there is no
material to indicate that Appellants had any malafide
intention against the Respondent which is clearly
deductible from the MOU dated 20.08.2009 arrived
between the parties. ... ... ... ... 72. The order of the High Court is seriously flawed
due to the fact that in its interim order dated 24.03.2017,
it was observed that the contentions put forth by the
Appellant vis-à-vis two complaints being filed on the
same cause of action at different places but the impugned
order overlooks the said aspect and there was no finding
on that issue. At the same time, in order to attract the
ingredients of Section of 406 and 420 IPC it is imperative
on the part of the complainant to prima facie establish
that there was an intention on part of the petitioner 38 and/or others to cheat and/or to defraud the
 complainant right from the inception. Furthermore it has
 to be prima facie established that due to such alleged act
 of cheating the complainant (Respondent No. 2 herein)
 had suffered a wrongful loss and the same had resulted
 in wrongful gain for the accused(appellant herein). In
 absence of these elements, no proceeding is permissible
 in the eyes of law with regard to the commission of the
 offence punishable u/s 420 IPC. It is apparent that the
 complaint was lodged at a very belated stage (as the
 entire transaction took place from January 2008 to
 August 2009, yet the complaint has been filed in March
 2013 i.e., after a delay of almost 4 years) with the
 objective of causing harassment to the petitioner and is
 bereft of any truth whatsoever." (Emphasis supplied)

The Apex Court in the case of VIJAY KUMAR GHAI (supra) after

considering the entire spectrum of law with regard to inter-play

between breach of an agreement and criminal breach of trust or

cheating and holds that breach of an agreement or recovery of

money on such breach of agreement, the criminal law cannot be set

into motion, as it would be giving predominantly civil proceeding, a

colour of crime. Subsequent to the aforesaid judgment, the Apex

Court in the case of SARABJIT KAUR V. STATE OF PUNJAB4 has

held as follows: The Apex Court again in the case of R.NAGENDER YADAV V.

STATE OF TELANGANA5 has held as follows: NOW THIS DEED OF SALE WITNESSETH AS UNDER: And the receipt of which sum the Vendor do hereby admit
and acknowledge." (emphasis supplied) 18. It appears prima facie from the aforesaid that the
purchaser (Vendee) might have obtained finance from Axis Bank
Ltd. for the purpose of purchasing the plot in question. The
police should have investigated whether the amount of Rs
24,08,000 (Rupees twenty-four lakhs eight thousand only) was
paid by Axis Bank Ltd. directly to the original complainant
(Respondent 2 herein). There is no clarity even in this regard.
This aspect shall also be looked into while deciding the civil suit
between the parties. 19. While exercising its jurisdiction under Section
482CrPC, the High Court has to be conscious that this power is
to be exercised sparingly and only for the purpose of prevention
of abuse of the process of the court or otherwise to secure the
ends of justice. Whether a complaint discloses a criminal offence
or not, depends upon the nature of the act alleged thereunder.
Whether the essential ingredients of a criminal offence are
present or not, has to be judged by the High Court. A complaint
disclosing civil transaction may also have a criminal texture. But
the High Court must see whether the dispute which is in
substance of a civil nature is given a cloak of a criminal offence.
In such a situation, if civil remedy is available and is in fact
adopted, as has happened in the case on hand, the High Court
should have quashed the criminal proceeding to prevent abuse
of process of court. 20. We therefore allow this appeal, set aside the
impugned order [ R. Nagender Yadav v. State of Telangana ,
2021 SCC OnLine TS 3598] of the High Court and quash the
criminal proceedings of Criminal Complaint No. 1029 of 2015.
We clarify that this will not come in the way of instituting 43 appropriate proceedings in future in case the civil court comes
 to the conclusion that the disputed sale deed dated 29-12-2010
 is forged. We refrain ourselves from expressing any opinion as
 regards the genuineness or otherwise of the sale deed in
 question as this question is wide open before the civil court. The
 civil court shall decide the civil suit pending between the parties
 on its own merits and on the basis of the evidence that may be
 led by both the sides. It shall be open to the civil court to take
 the opinion of the handwritings expert as regards the signature
 of the complainant on the disputed sale deed. 21. We clarify that we have passed the aforesaid order in
 the facts and circumstances of the present case and the same
 shall not be cited as a precedent." A little earlier to the aforesaid judgment, the Apex Court in

the case of RAMESH CHANDRA GUPTA V. STATE OF U.P.6 has

held as follows: "22. Before we enter into the facts of the present case it
 is necessary to consider the ambit and scope of jurisdiction
 under Section 482 CrPC vested in the High Court. Section 482 CrPC saves the inherent power of the High Court to make such
 orders as may be necessary to give effect to any order under
 this Code, or to prevent abuse of the process of any court or
 otherwise to secure the ends of justice. 23. This Court time and again has examined the scope of
 jurisdiction of the High Court under Section 482 CrPC and laid
 down several principles which govern the exercise of jurisdiction
 of the High Court under Section 482 CrPC. A three-Judge Bench
 of this Court in State of Karnataka v. L. Muniswamy , (1977) 2 6 (2022) SCC Online SC 1634 44 SCC 699 held that the High Court is entitled to quash a
proceeding if it comes to the conclusion that allowing the
proceeding to continue would be an abuse of the process of the
Court or that the ends of justice require that the proceeding
ought to be quashed. In para 7 of the judgment, the following
has been stated: This Court has held in para 102 in State of Haryana v. Bhajan
Lal2 as under: 17. The principles culled out by this Court have
consistently been followed in the recent judgment of this Court
in Neeharika Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. v. State of Maharashtra3 . 18. The present case is fully covered by categories (1)
and (3), as enumerated in State of Haryana v. Bhajan 47 Lal (supra). A bare perusal of the complaint on the basis of
which FIR came to be registered at the instance of the de-facto
complainant/second respondent does not disclose any act of the
present appellants or their participation in the commission of
crime. They are neither concerned with the registered sale deed
dated 4th May, 1977 nor the later sale deed executed in favour
of the de-facto complainant by Shravan Kumar Gupta dated
22nd December, 2018, nor in possession of the subject property
nor are parties to the civil proceedings and it is not the case of
the complainant that either the appellants have played any
active/passive role either in scribing the document or are
facilitators or witness to the document in reference to which the
complaint has been made for cheating and committing forgery
or have played any role in delivery of possession of the subject
property in question. 19. What it appears is that the de-facto complainant has
implicated the present appellants being members of the family
to put pressure for obtaining possession of the subject property
and to settle the civil dispute which is pending between Vinod
Kumar Gupta, Shravan Kumar Gupta and the de-facto
complainant in Original Suit No. 91 of 2015. 20. We are of the view that in the present facts and
circumstances, the High Court ought to have exercised its power
under Section 482 CrPC for quashing of the criminal complaint
and proceedings in consequence thereof qua the present
appellants. 21. Before parting with the order, we further like to
observe that the observations which has been made are
restricted to the three appellants, namely, Ramesh Chandra
Gupta, Ashish Gupta and Rinky Sarna before this Court and the
learned trial Judge may not be influenced by the observations
made above and may proceed with the Criminal Case No. 2200
of 2019 qua the other accused persons independently on its own
merits in accordance with law. 22. Needless to say that the Court which is seized of the
 Original Suit No. 91 of 2015 may decide the same independently
 on its own merits in accordance with law. 23. In the result, the appeals are allowed. The judgment
 impugned of the High Court dated 3rd February, 2021 is set
 aside and FIR numbered as Criminal Case No. 2200 of 2019
 registered at PS Navabad, District Jhansi and all the
 consequential proceedings qua the present appellants stand
 quashed." 16. On a coalesce of the afore-quoted law elucidated by the

Apex Court what would unmistakably emerge is, that breach of

contract may have several hues and forms. Every breach of

contract, unless it is shrouded with dishonest intention at the

outset, cannot become an offence under Sections 406 or 420 of the IPC . If the facts obtaining in the case at hand are considered on

the bedrock of the elucidation by the Apex Court in the afore- quoted judgments, what would unmistakably emerge is, the

criminal law that is set in motion on the breach of contract is

unsustainable, more so, in the light of the fact that the complainant

has knocked at the doors of every fora or the remedy for non- delivery of flats within the stipulated time could be agitated before

any other fora specifically created for the purpose. Criminal law 49 cannot be set into motion on the said delay in delivery of flats, as

those facts arise out of agreements entered into between the

parties, at best, it can be breach of agreement. If it is breach of

agreement, it cannot be cheating or criminal breach of trust. Therefore, the FIR in Crime No.163 of 2020 is still in the stage of

investigation. I do not find any warrant to permit the investigation

to continue, as there is no investigation conducted in the case at

hand in the light of the interim order granted by this Court. 17. The complainant is at liberty to move any fora, on the

grievance that he is seeking to vent out in terms of the agreement. The findings or observations made herein will not come in the way

of the complainant knocking at the doors of any other fora, or if he

has already knocked at any other fora, the observations in the

course of the order will not influence or bind such proceedings. 18. In the light of the preceding analysis, the crime in Crime

No.163 of 2020 is rendered unsustainable and its unsustainability

would lead to its obliteration. If it is to be obliterated, whether the

proceedings instituted by the Enforcement Directorate in 50 W.P.No.7855 of 2023 for alleged violation of the Prevention of

Money Laundering Act ('PMLA' for short), could be permitted to be

continued or not, also requires an answer. It is trite law that the

offence under the PMLA cannot independently stand. It has to be

foundationed on a crime being registered under any penal law. In

the case at hand, the penal law is the registration of the impugned

crime in Crime No.163 of 2020. It is based upon the said crime,

the ECIR was registered and attachments orders have been passed. The ECIR would not stand as the predicate offence is now held to be

unsustainable. 19. This Court, while disposing the petition between the

parties i.e., the petitioners and the Enforcement Directorate in

W.P.No.20713 of 2022 had observed as follows: "20. In the result, I pass the following: This Court while disposing the petition had clearly observed that in

the event the interim order in the subject petition would get

vacated, the PMLA proceedings would automatically continue. The

interim order is not getting vacated, but the crime itself is held to

be unsustainable. If the crime is held to be unsustainable and

results in quashment of the proceedings, what would happen to the

proceedings under the PMLA again need not detain this Court for

long or delve deep into the matter. The Apex Court in the case of VIJAY MADANLAL CHOUDHARY v. UNION OF INDIA7 has held

as follows: The Authorities under the 2002 Act cannot
 prosecute any person on notional basis or on
 the assumption that a scheduled offence has
 been committed, unless it is so registered with
 the jurisdictional police and/or pending
 enquiry/trial including by way of criminal
 complaint before the competent forum. If the
 person is finally discharged/acquitted of the
 scheduled offence or the criminal case against
 him is quashed by the Court of competent
 jurisdiction, there can be no offence of money-
 laundering against him or any one claiming
 such property being the property linked to
 stated scheduled offence through him. (vi) Section 5 of the 2002 Act is constitutionally
 valid. It provides for a balancing arrangement
 to secure the interests of the person as also 54 ensures that the proceeds of crime remain
 available to be dealt with in the manner
 provided by the 2002 Act. The procedural
 safeguards as delineated by us hereinabove are
 effective measures to protect the interests of
 person concerned. (vii) The challenge to the validity of sub-section (4) of Section 8 of the 2002 Act is also rejected subject to Section 8 being invoked and operated in accordance
 with the meaning assigned to it hereinabove. (viii) The challenge to deletion of proviso to sub-section
 (1) of Section 17 of the 2002 Act stands rejected.
 There are stringent safeguards provided in Section
 17 and Rules framed thereunder. Moreover, the pre-
 condition in the proviso to Rule 3(2) of the 2005
 Rules cannot be read into Section 17 after its
 amendment. The Central Government may take
 necessary corrective steps to obviate confusion
 caused in that regard. (ix) The challenge to deletion of proviso to sub-section
 (1) of Section 18 of the 2002 Act also stands
 rejected. There are similar safeguards provided in Section 18 . We hold that the amended provision
 does not suffer from the vice of arbitrariness. (x) The challenge to the constitutional validity of Section
 19 of the 2002 Act is also rejected. There are
 stringent safeguards provided in Section 19 . The
 provision does not suffer from the vice of
 arbitrariness. (xi) Section 24 of the 2002 Act has reasonable nexus
 with the purposes and objects sought to be achieved
 by the 2002 Act and cannot be regarded as
 manifestly arbitrary or unconstitutional. (xii)(a) The proviso in Clause (a) of sub-section (1) of Section 44 of the 2002 Act is to be regarded as
 directory in nature and this provision is also read 55 down to mean that the Special Court may exercise
 judicial discretion on case-to-case basis. (b) We do not find merit in the challenge to Section 44 being arbitrary or unconstitutional. However, the
 eventualities referred to in this section shall be dealt
 with by the Court concerned and by the Authority
 concerned in accordance with the interpretation
 given in this judgment. (xiii)(a) The reasons which weighed with this Court in Nikesh
 Tarachand Shah for declaring the twin conditions in Section 45(1) of the 2002 Act, as it stood at the
 relevant time, as unconstitutional in no way
 obliterated the provision from the statute book; and
 it was open to the Parliament to cure the defect
 noted by this Court so as to revive the same
 provision in the existing form. (b) We are unable to agree with the observations
 in Nikesh Tarachand Shah distinguishing the
 enunciation of the Constitution Bench decision
 in Kartar Singh; and other observations suggestive
 of doubting the perception of Parliament in regard to
 the seriousness of the offence of money-laundering,
 including about it posing serious threat to the
 sovereignty and integrity of the country. (c) The provision in the form of Section 45 of the 2002
 Act, as applicable post amendment of 2018, is
 reasonable and has direct nexus with the purposes
 and objects sought to be achieved by the 2002 Act
 and does not suffer from the vice of arbitrariness or
 unreasonableness. (d) As regards the prayer for grant of bail, irrespective
 of the nature of proceedings, including those under
 Section 438 of the 1973 Code or even upon invoking
 the jurisdiction of Constitutional Courts, the
 underlying principles and rigours of Section 45 may
 apply. (xiv) The beneficial provision of Section 436A of the 1973
 Code could be invoked by the accused arrested for
 offence punishable under the 2002 Act. (xv)(a) The process envisaged by Section 50 of the 2002 Act
 is in the nature of an inquiry against the proceeds of
 crime and is not "investigation" in strict sense of the
 term for initiating prosecution; and the Authorities
 under the 2002 Act (referred to in Section 48 ), are
 not police officers as such. (b) The statements recorded by the Authorities under
 the 2002 Act are not hit by Article 20(3) or Article 21 of the Constitution of India. (xvi) Section 63 of the 2002 Act providing for punishment
 regarding false information or failure to give
 information does not suffer from any vice of
 arbitrariness. (xvii) The inclusion or exclusion of any particular offence in
 the Schedule to the 2002 Act is a matter of
 legislative policy; and the nature or class of any
 predicate offence has no bearing on the validity of
 the Schedule or any prescription thereunder. (xviii)(a) In view of special mechanism envisaged by the
 2002 Act, ECIR cannot be equated with an FIR under
 the 1973 Code. ECIR is an internal document of the
 ED and the fact that FIR in respect of scheduled
 offence has not been recorded does not come in the
 way of the Authorities referred to in Section 48 to
 commence inquiry/investigation for initiating "civil
 action" of "provisional attachment" of property being
 proceeds of crime. (b) Supply of a copy of ECIR in every case to the person
 concerned is not mandatory, it is enough if ED at the
 time of arrest, discloses the grounds of such arrest. (c) However, when the arrested person is produced
 before the Special Court, it is open to the Special
 Court to look into the relevant records presented by 57 the authorised representative of ED for answering
 the issue of need for his/her continued detention in
 connection with the offence of money-laundering. (xix) Even when ED manual is not to be published being
 an internal departmental document issued for the
 guidance of the Authorities (ED officials), the
 department ought to explore the desirability of
 placing information on its website which may broadly
 outline the scope of the authority of the functionaries
 under the Act and measures to be adopted by them
 as also the options/remedies available to the person
 concerned before the Authority and before the
 Special Court. (xx) The petitioners are justified in expressing serious
 concern bordering on causing injustice owing to the
 vacancies in the Appellate Tribunal. We deem it
 necessary to impress upon the executive to take
 corrective measures in this regard expeditiously. (xxi) The argument about proportionality of punishment
 with reference to the nature of scheduled offence is
 wholly unfounded and stands rejected." (Emphasis supplied)

Clause (d) of the aforesaid conclusion the Apex Court considers Section 3 of the Act and later upholds the constitutional validity of Section 5 of the Act in terms of clause (vi) supra. Section 5 of the

Act is what deals with the attachment of the properties. Clause (v)(d) of paragraph 467 (supra) establishes the link between the

two. The Apex Court holds that in the event the accused in the

PMLA or whose allegations are linked to any persons in the 58 predicate offence such accused in the predicate offence gets a clean

chit on three circumstances - one by acquittal after a full blown

trial; two on discharge by the competent Court and three on the

proceedings being quashed by the High Court in exercise of its

jurisdiction under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C. In all these cases,

there can be no offence of money laundering against the accused. The predicate offence in the case at hand is, Crime No.163 of 2020. Crime No.163 of 2020 is held to be unsustainable. If crime No.163

of 2020 is the foundation, and the proceedings under the PMLA are

the super structure, the foundation having been obliterated, the

super structure would tumble down, so to say, that the proceedings

under the PMLA will vanish owing to its sustenance only on the

predicate offence. 20. In the light of the judgment of the Apex Court in the case

of VIJAY MADANLAL CHOUDHARY, the obliteration of the

proceedings under the PMLA becomes axiomatic the moment the

predicate offence gets obliterated. 21. For the aforesaid reasons, the following: Pending applications, if any, also stand disposed as a

consequence. Sd/- JUDGE

bkp
CT:SS