% 15.01.2021
 The hearing has been conducted through video conferencing. 1. The present petition has been filed by petitioner under Section 439
Cr.P.C. for grant of bail in case FIR No.369/2019, registered at Police
Station Jyoti Nagar for the offences punishable under Sections under
Section 376/506 IPC and 67A IT Act 2. FIR in the present case has been registered on the complaint of
Vanshika Sharma @ Pooja who was married at the time when she met
petitioner and has children out of the wedlock . Her husband is
physically handicap, so for livelihood she runs a parlour. She became
friend with petitioner who deceitfully made physical relations with her
time and again and took videos and pictures of the sexual acts. Petitioner
blackmailed her to make her video viral and took Rs 4-5 lacs along with
her gold ornaments. Petitioner's brother also took Rs. 5 lacs as loan from
her. 3. Learned APP appearing on behalf of State submits that petitioner
has exploited the complainant on the basis of some photographs and
videos . He has not only sent obscene photos and videos to the victim but Page 1 of 3 also to several other number of persons due to which her husband has
taken divorce from her . Thus, there are serious allegations against the
petitioner, therefore petition deserves to be dismissed. 4. Pursuant to the directions passed by this Court, petitioner joined
investigation and disclosed that he had sent few general photos of himself
with victim to one lady namely Renu at her request only who was a
resident of Meerut and was somehow related to one Ruby Chaudhary.
She had requested for those photographs as proof of affair between the
accused/applicant and the victim because the victim had recently
developed an affair with husband of Ruby Chaudhary namely Prashant
Chaudhary. In fact, his wife Ruby Chaudhary needed those photographs
from Renu. The photographs exchanged among Amit Sharma @ Noni,
the accused/applicant, Renu, Ruby and Prashant Chaudhary and back to
the complainant have only two photos in which the complainant and the
accused are seen kissing each other and that too in full clothes. 5. Renu was examined who stated that she received some
photographs from the accused/applicant through WhatsApp. She further
stated that she had herself contacted the accused/applicant and that she
had sent 2 photos of victim along-with accused/applicant to her Bhabhi
namely Ruby W/o Prashant R/o Budana U.P. and one photo to victim.
She provided those photographs (soft and hard copy) which were sent, to
her by accused/applicant on WhatsApp. All the 3 photos were found to be
same as provided by the victim. 6. Prashant Chaudhary in his examination stated that the two photos
which he sent to victim was sent by his wife Ruby and his wife received
them from her known Renu . It further clarified that the victim was Page 2 of 3 known to Prashant Chaudhary as they worked together in a private
company. Renu somehow obtained the phone number of the
accused/applicant and had conversation with him. Accused/applicant
informed her about his relationship with victim and sent some
photographs. 7. This Court has perused photographs which are part of the status
report . In my considered opinion , the photographs annexed , are not
obscene nor ribald in any way . Apparently , Petitioner and victim are
seen posing and loving each other in those selfies . 8. Keeping in view aforesaid facts and the relationship of victim with
the petitioner from 5-6 years and without commenting on the merits of
the prosecution case, I am of the view that petitioner deserves bail. 9. Accordingly, he shall be released on bail on his furnishing a
personal bond of Rs.25,000/- with one surety of the like amount to the
satisfaction of Trial Court. 10. Petitioner shall not directly or indirectly influence any witness or
tamper with the evidence. 11. The Trial Court shall not get influenced by the observation made
by this Court while passing the order. 12. The petition is, accordingly, allowed and disposed of. 13. Copy of this order be transmitted to the Jail Superintendent
concerned and Trial Court for information and necessary compliance. 14. The order be uploaded on the website of this Court forthwith. SURESH KUMAR KAIT, J
JANUARY 15, 2021/ab Page 3 of 3