CRL M.A. No. 20701/2024 1. Application herein is under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C., filed by
 complainant/informant of the FIR, seeking directions for release of an amount
 of Rs. 1,50,00,000/- along with the interest. Said amount was deposited by the
 non- applicant/accused, in course of the anticipatory bail proceedings disposed
 of vide an order dated 28.03.2024 passed by co-ordinate bench of this court.
 The genesis of the proceedings is an FIR No. 627/2019 dated 06.12.2019 u/s
 420 / 34 IPC registered at Rani Bagh, Delhi. 2. Relevant extract of the application seeking release of money reads as
 under: "3. That it is pertinent to mention herein that the accused
 persons showed their interest to settle the matter and deposited
 Rs 1,00,00,000/- (One Crore) in the compliance of the order of
 this Hon‟ble Court vide order dated 19.10.2020 and because of
 which, the accused persons were granted interim protection and
 the same was continuously extended. It is further pertinent to
 mention herein that this Hon‟ble Court vide order dated
 28.03.2024 had granted Anticipatory bail to the petitioners on a
 condition that the petitioners will further deposit a sum of Rs
 50,00,000/- (Fifty Lakhs) in the in the High Court registry and in
 the compliance of the said order the petitioners deposited a sum
 of Rs 50,00,000/- (Fifty Lakhs) in the High Court registry. The
 copy of the order dated 19.10.2020 and 28.03.2024 is annexed
 herein as Annexure-A(Colly). 4. That now the above said matter is disposed of, so, the
 applicant/complainant requests to release the said amount. 5. That it is respectfully submitted that in view of the
 consideration of the aforementioned circumstances and of
 prolonged delay of more than 4 years, this Hon‟ble Court may
 pass order/directions to the registry to release the amount of Rs
 1,00,00,000/- (One Crore) and Rs 50,00,000/- ( Fifty Lakhs)
 amounting to a total of Rs 1,50,00,000/- (One Crore Fifty
 Lakhs), along with the accrued interest deposited by the
 petitioners in compliance of the order dated 19.10.2020 and
 order dated 28.03.2024 respectively, in favour of the present
 applicant/complainant in view of the heavy loss suffered by
 him." 3. In course of the arguments on the above application and upon perusal of
 the FIR by this court, what has transpired is rather peculiar and glaring. At the
 very outset, I was constrained to observe that it appeared to be a case of
 complete abuse of police powers. In as much as, the FIR was registered in
 2019, that too qua a dispute which seemingly is outright civil in nature. And Signature Not Verified Signed By:RENUKA BAIL APPLN. 3183/2020 Page 2 of 35 NEGI Signing Date:18.08.2025 14:17:58 yet, it has been given the color of criminal culpability, where none exists. Let
 us see how. 4. Two questions arise that warrant a decision i.e. one relates to
 jurisprudence and the other to jurisdiction. To put the matter with precision, the
 following questions of law arise for consideration which require adjudication
 by this Court: 5. In addition, there is yet another aspect of the matter which warrants
 immediate attention i.e. delay in filing of charge sheet. In fact, it was in this
 premise that, at the very threshold, on account of the inordinate delay in filing
 of the charge sheet, this Court posed a query as to why the FIR itself should not
 be quashed. This issue also merits examination. More of it later. 6. Taking the two questions, ibid, in reverse order seems more logical.
 Whether this Court lacks jurisdiction, a foundational issue, ought to be
 addressed first, as any deliberation on jurisprudence would otherwise be moot. 7. The objection raised by the learned counsel for the
 complainant/informant is that the FIR in question is not under challenge before
 this Court. It is contended that only a bail application filed by the accused had
 earlier been considered, which now stands disposed of. The present matter has
 been taken up on an application filed by the complainant in the already Signature Not Verified Signed By:RENUKA BAIL APPLN. 3183/2020 Page 3 of 35 NEGI Signing Date:18.08.2025 14:17:58 disposed-of bail application. Therefore, it is argued that this Court is barred
 from exercising its jurisdiction in the matter i.e. question ‗B' ibid. 8. To resolve this, let us first examine Section 528 of the Bharatiya Nagarik
 Suraksha Sanhita (BNSS), which is as under [Section 528 of the BNSS
 corresponds to Section 482 CrPC] :- No doubt, the power is extraordinary and residuary in nature. It is
 envisaged to be invoked only in cases where no specific provision provides
 relief or failure to act would result in miscarriage of justice or perpetuation of
 illegality. 9. In the light of above position of law, reverting now to jurisdictional
 objection raised. The objection of the learned counsel for the complainant is
 that the FIR is not under challenge before this Court. The bail application (filed
 by the accused) has already been disposed of. The present matter has been put
 up before the court on an application by the complainant in the disposed-of bail
 application. Therefore, this Court lacks jurisdiction to entertain any question Signature Not Verified Signed By:RENUKA BAIL APPLN. 3183/2020 Page 4 of 35 NEGI Signing Date:18.08.2025 14:17:58 qua legality of the FIR. Essentially, the argument is that the High Court cannot
 reopen validity of FIR or exercise any power in a disposed of proceeding,
 unless there is a fresh, valid proceeding before it assailing the FIR explicitly.
 9.1. Elaborating further, it is contended that once a bail application has been
 disposed of, the Court becomes functus officio in respect of that proceeding.
 There is no statutory provision enabling the reopening or recalling of a
 disposed-of bail matter, except by way of appeal or cancellation of bail under
 appropriate procedure. Inherent powers under Section 528 cannot be used as a
 substitute for review or appeal, nor to revive a concluded matter. Entertaining
 and going into such a question raised in present proceedings in a disposed-of
 file would erode procedural discipline and open the door to uncertain litigation. 10. Now, how does Section 528 affect this? As noted above, ordinary Rule
 is Courts cannot exercise jurisdiction in a disposed-of matter unless a statutory
 provision allows review/recall (which a criminal court clearly lacks). However,
 under Section 528, the High Court retains inherent powers to pass orders to
 prevent abuse of the process of Court or secure justice, even in circumstances
 not covered by the express provisions of the BNSS. This includes situations
 where- continuing the criminal proceedings in a particular matter would
 frustrate the administration of justice and/or there is an attempt to misuse the
 Court's process through technicalities. Clearly, this power cannot be used to
 rehear a matter or reopen a concluded adjudication under the guise of inherent
 jurisdiction. Moreover, trite law it is that inherent power is to be used
 sparingly, with caution, and in rare cases. It cannot override statutory
 prohibitions or create a new remedy. 11. Inherent powers are not controlled by the procedural character of the
 original proceeding, provided the intervention sought is necessary to secure
 justice. Section 528 BNSS--enables the High Court to step in, to prevent abuse Signature Not Verified Signed By:RENUKA BAIL APPLN. 3183/2020 Page 5 of 35 NEGI Signing Date:18.08.2025 14:17:58 of law or to ensure justice, irrespective of the stage, including after disposal of
 a matter, if the action is necessary to neutralize misuse of the court's process.
 The fact that the present application has been moved only within the disposed-
 of bail proceeding cannot be treated as a bar where the substance of the matter
 relates to preventing abuse of the law or protecting the integrity of the judicial
 process. 12. This Court cannot fold its hands merely because the bail file has been
 formally closed. A narrow view of jurisdiction would defeat the very purpose
 of Section 528, which is designed as a constitutional safety valve for the
 administration of criminal justice. In the present case, this Court is satisfied that
 to refuse examination of FIR on a mere technicality of the bail matter being
 ―disposed of‖ would result in gross injustice. The High Court's inherent
 powers extend to moulding relief to prevent abuse, regardless of the procedural
 posture of the earlier matter. Section 528 BNSS embodies the extraordinary
 jurisdiction of the High Court to act ex debito justitiae--wherever necessary to
 prevent abuse of process or secure the ends of justice. This power is not
 shackled by the procedural posture of a matter. If subsequent developments
 reveal abuse of law or threat to the fairness of trial, the High Court cannot
 decline intervention on a mere technicality. A hyper-technical view would
 defeat the very object of Section 528, which is to preserve judicial control
 against abuse of process of law. 13. The exercise of inherent powers is undoubtedly to be sparing and
 exceptional. However, the present matter warrants examination because the
 FIR allegations, if not acceptable to reflect any criminality, may strike at the
 root of a fair investigation and trial. A refusal to entertain the plea on a
 technical ground would virtually render the Court powerless to check a Signature Not Verified Signed By:RENUKA BAIL APPLN. 3183/2020 Page 6 of 35 NEGI Signing Date:18.08.2025 14:17:58 continuing abuse of its own process. The preliminary objection is thus
 overruled. 14. In the present case, it is merely the bail order which has attained finality,
 but this Court's inherent jurisdiction is not exhausted. Provided of course, if it
 is found necessary to prevent an abuse of process, which is the essential test
 and a sine qua non. For example, if the accused is trying to misuse the bail
 order in a way that affects the investigation, the High Court ought to intervene
 under Section 528 -- not as a continuation of the bail proceeding, but under its
 inherent jurisdiction in a fresh cause, as, in my opinion, there is no bar then. At
 the same time, if the bail applicant is merely seeking to reargue bail or reopen
 the disposed bail application, that would be barred, because inherent power is
 not a substitute for appeal or review. 15. To conclude, jurisdiction under Section 528 exists independently of the
 disposed-of bail application. However, to exercise the same, all that is required
 to be seen is whether the situation covered by Section 528, ibid exists, not
 necessarily as a fresh or separate proceeding so as to invoke inherent powers.
 The Court must be satisfied and record reasons that intervention is essential to
 prevent abuse of process or secure justice. If this test is not met, the objection
 by the complainant/respondent no.2 would stand, and this Court would be
 barred from exercising jurisdiction. Conversely, if the Court is satisfied that its
 intervention is necessary to prevent abuse of the process of the Court or
 otherwise to secure the ends of justice, the objection against this Court's
 jurisdiction under Section 528 will not be acceptable. Question of law at ‗B' as
 framed above is thus answered accordingly. 16. Adverting now to jurisprudential issue i.e. question of law at ‗A', ibid.
 First and foremost, obviously, despite 6 long years of investigation, there is
 either no material or insufficient material unearthed to prosecute the accused in Signature Not Verified Signed By:RENUKA BAIL APPLN. 3183/2020 Page 7 of 35 NEGI Signing Date:18.08.2025 14:17:58 the FIR. This is borne out from the very fact that the charge-sheet, let alone
 being filed, is not even ready as on today i.e. 13.08.2025. The I.O. is present in
 person in court along with the learned APP. On being put to a query, he
 initially said that the draft charge sheet is ready and stated that to establish the
 same if matter is passed over, he can arrange for it to be sent to him on email or
 WhatsApp from the office/police station. This court then passed over the matter
 and gave liberty to show the soft copy of draft charge-sheet, by requisitioning it
 on WhatsApp or on email. However, when matter was called up in the second
 round, no soft copy was shown to the court. Position thus remained the same.
 Be that as it may, let us proceed on the premise that draft charge sheet is ready,
 but the fact remains it is yet to be filed in the trial court after 6 years of
 investigation. 17. Adverting now to the case set up by the prosecution/complainant. As per
 the FIR, in June 2016, Mr. Soni was introduced by one Mr. Devki Nandan and
 one Mr. Kailash Kumar to one Mr. Krishan Kumar, who in turn introduced him
 to one Mr. Narender Singh, his wife one Mrs. Krishna Singh, and their sons;
 non-applicant/accused Mr. Yogesh Singh and one Mr. Kunal Singh. The
 accused persons represented that the family of Mr. Narender Singh owned two
 highly profitable stone mines located at villages Ramal Vas and Manka Vas,
 District Dadri, Haryana, through their company M/s Kayden Infra Engineering
 Pvt. Ltd. They assured the complainants that upon payment of Rs.1.5 crores,
 they would pay monthly interest at 24% p.a. for six months, return the principal
 thereafter, and further pay 1% of the mines' profits per month. Believing these
 representations, the complainants paid Rs.1.5 crores by RTGS on 08.11.2016 to
 Mr. Yogesh Singh from accounts of Mr. Kapil Soni, Mrs. Raj Bala, and Mr.
 Radhey Shyam Soni. 17.1. Subsequently, the accused persons persuaded the complainants to
 purchase 1.25% shareholding in M/s Kayden Infra Engineering Pvt. Ltd. for
 Rs.43,66,000/-, directing that the amounts be paid in the names of Mrs. Krishna
 Singh and M/s Ashali Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd., another family company of Mr.
 Narender Singh. Between 18.01.2017 and 19.01.2017, multiple complainants
 made payments via RTGS, NEFT, and demand drafts, aggregating
 Rs.43,66,000/. Thus, a total sum of Rs.1,93,66,000/- was paid to the accused
 persons. 17.2. It is alleged that the accused neither paid the agreed interest nor returned
 the principal amount, and instead issued purported share allotment details in
 M/s Ashali Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd., contrary to the promise of allotment in M/s
 Kayden Infra Engineering Pvt. Ltd. Despite repeated demands, neither share
 certificates in M/s Ashali Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. nor the promised shares in
 M/s Kayden Infra Engineering Pvt. Ltd. were provided. The accused allegedly
 avoided the complainants, failed to repay the amounts, and continued to make
 excuses. 17.3. The complainants later learnt that the accused had similarly taken money
 from others under false pretences. A Panchayat convened on 11.07.2018 at the
 mines' office in Village Manka Vas, saw an assurance from accused Devki
 Nandan to repay, but no payment ensued. It is alleged that the accused, acting
 in conspiracy, dishonestly induced the complainants to part with
 Rs.1,93,66,000/-, thereby causing wrongful loss to them and wrongful gain to
 themselves. 18. It was in the aforesaid factual backdrop, that this court expressed its
 preliminary opinion that ex facie it does not appear to be a case of commission
 of any crime. And, thus why should the FIR itself be not quashed exercising Signature Not Verified Signed By:RENUKA BAIL APPLN. 3183/2020 Page 9 of 35 NEGI Signing Date:18.08.2025 14:17:58 inherent powers under Section 528 of BNSS, as it appeared to have been
 registered in complete abuse of the process of law. 19. FIR is appended with the disposed of bail application as Annexure A/1.
 Before adverting to the merits thereof, it is deemed appropriate that it be seen.
 A disclaimer though, it is rather long, perhaps the distinction between drafting
 a civil suit and an FIR got blurred at the time of its registration. The FIR, shorn
 of other unnecessary details, in verbatim, is as below: 1,50,00,000/- (Rupees One Crore Fifty Lakhs only)( to the family of
 Mr. Narender Singh as per the table below: Sr. Mode of amount
 paid by amount Amount No. Payment RTGS 8/11/2016 Kapil Soni
 S/o Radhey Shyam Soni amount paid to Mr. Yogesh Singh
 53,10,000 (2) RTGS 8/11/2016 Mrs. Raj Bala W/o Radhey Shyam
 Soni S/o mr. Prashad Soni Amount paid to Mr. Yogesh 53,10,000/-
 (3)RTGS 8/11/2016 Mr. Radhey Shyam Soni S/o Mr. Ram Prashad
 Soni amount paid to Mr. Yogesh 43,80,000/-. The Bank Statements
 of Mr. Kapil Soni, Mrs. Raj Bala and Mr. Radhey Shyam Soni duly
 reflected the above payments of Rs. 1.5 Crores made in favour of
 Yogesh Singh. (vi) After sometime, the said accused persons, once again made
 representations to the complainant that they wish to sell the shares
 of their company ie. M/s Kayden Infra Engineering Pvt.Ltd. to the
 extent of 5%. The accused persons represented that there are other
 persons namely Mr. Nishant Berwal, Mr. Devki Nandan (one of the
 accused). Mr. Mohit Malik and one Mr. Pawan Panchal are also
 interested in buying the share holding in the said company because
 profits int he said two stone mines is very high, which is owned by
 M/s Kayden Infra Engineering Pvt. Ltd. it was represented by the
 accused persons that the complainants must buy shareholding int
 he said company and they will earn very high profits and even Mr.
 Devki Nandan (who is one of the accused) is also buying the
 shareholding i.e. M/s Kayden Infra Engineering Pvt. Ltd.. The
 complainants were also lured by the accused persons by
 representing that the complainants will earn very high profits if
 they buy the said shareholding in the said company. Believing the
 representations and promises made by the said accused persons,
 the complainant and his family members (the other victim complain
 ants) became ready to buy the shareholding in the said company. After that the accused persons told the complainant to pay a sum of
 Rs. 43,66,000/- (Rupees Forty Three Lakhs Sixty Six thousand only)
 for purchase of shareholding to the extent of 1.25% in M/s Kayden
 Infra Engineering Pvt. Ltd.. However, the accused persons told the
 complainant to pay the said amount int he name of Mrs. Krishna
 w/o Mr. Narender Singh and int he name of M/s Ashali
 Infrastructure Pvt.Ltd. which is another family company of Mr.
 Narender Singh and in the name of M/s Ashali Infrastructure Pvt.
 Ltd. which is another family company of Mr. Narender Singh.
 Believing the aforesaid representations and false promises made by
 the accused persons, the complainants paid the following amount to
 the accused persons as under: 2,00,000/- in the above manner, all the complainants have paid a sum of Rs.
 43,66,000/- (Rupees Forty Three Lakhs Sixty Six thousand only) to
 the accused persons. In addition to the said amount of Rs. 43,66,000/- (Rupees Forty
 Three Lakhs Sixty Six thousand only), the complainants have
 already paid another sum of Rs. 1,50,00,000/- as mentioned
 hereinabove. In the above manner, a total sum of Rs. 1,93,66,000/-
 (Rupees One Core ninety three lakhs sixty six thousand only) has
 been paid by the complainants to the accused persons on their
 representations and false promises made by them a mentioned
 hereinabove. (3) It is stated that the accused persons have received the said
 amount in their personal name/individual account and in their
 company namely M/s Ashali Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd., the accused
 persons have not paid back any interest on the amount of Rs. 1.5
 crores as agreed and also not returned the said amount to the
 complainant as same was promised to be returned within a period
 of 6 months. (4) Further, in lieu of amount of Rs. 43,66,000/- (Rupees Forty
 Three Lakhs Sixty Six thousand only) the accused persons have not
 issued/allotted the share of M/s Kayden Infra Engineering Pvt. Ltd.
 And instead one of the accused persons namely, Mr. Kunal Singh
 S/o Mr. Narender Singh sent a Whatsapp from his mobile No.
 9910270009 to Mr. Radhey Shyam Soni on his mobile No.
 9654808477 on 29.8.2017 giving the details of issuance of shares in
 their company, namely M/s Ashali Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. Which is
 against the promise made by the accused persons. (5) It is stated that when the complainant confronted the accused
 persons that the shares were to be allowed in M/s Kayden Infra
 Engineering Pvt. Ltd. And not in M/s Ashali Infrastructure Pvt.
 Ltd., the accused persons told the complainant that because of some
 accounting reasons, presently they are issuing/allotting shares in
 M/s Ashali Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. And later they shall issue shares
 of M/s Kayden Infra Engineering Pvt. Ltd. (6) The Complainants has many a time requested the accused
 persons to pay the interest at the agreed rate of 24% on the sum of
 Rs. 1.5 Crores and also to retum the said amount to the
 complainant, however, the accused persons are making lame
 excuses and now they have started avodign the complainant and not
 even picking the phone of Mr. Radhey Shyam Soni. (7) Further, even the alleged share certificates alleged to have been
 issued in favour of the complainants of the complainant M/s Ashali
 Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. Has not been given to the complainant and
 further the share in the company, namely M/s Kayden Infra
 Engineering Pvt. Ltd. Has not been issued as promised.
 (8) It is stated that the complainant has made the accused persons
 various times and requested the accused persons to pay back the
 entire amount of Rs. 1,93,66,000/- (Rupees One Crore ninety three
 lakhs sixty six thousand only) alongwith the interest, however, on
 the one pretext or the other, the accused persons are deferring the
 payment. (9) it is stated that the complainants have become aware that the
 accused persons have also taken money by making false promises
 from other persons also and not returning their amount also. It is
 stated that after much persuasions the accused persons called the
 Panchayat on 11.7.2018 which was held in the office of the mines
 situated at Village Manka Vas, Dadri, Haryana wherein one of the
 accused Mr. Devki Nandan promised that he shall pay the amount Signature Not Verified Signed By:RENUKA BAIL APPLN. 3183/2020 Page 14 of 35 NEGI Signing Date:18.08.2025 14:17:58 of the complainant and also other persons, however, even after that
 no amount was paid by the accused either by Devki Nandan or by
 any other accused persons to the Complainant. (10) It is stated that the accused persons have caused the huge
 monetary loss of Rs. 1,93,66,000/-(Rupees One Crore ninety three
 lakhs sixty six thousand only) to the complainants by making
 representations and false promises. It is stated that the accused
 persons in a pre-planned manner hatched the criminal conspiracy
 in active collusion with each other and made false representations
 and promises to the complainants and on the basis of said
 representations and false promises took the huge amount of Rs.
 1,93,66,000/- (Rupees One Crore Ninety Three Lakhs Sixty Six
 thousand only) from the complainants and caused a wrongful loss
 to the complainants and wrongful gain to themselves accused
 persons. (11) It is stated that complainant also became aware that there is
 another FIR is registered against the a accused persons being FIR
 No. 130/16 dt. 21.12.2016 with P.S. Shivdi, Distt. Mumbai,
 Maharashtraq U/s 406/420/ IPC on the complaint of one Ms. Seema
 Saharan. (12) It is stated that the accused persons have committed the
 offences of cheating, fraud, criminal breach of trust,
 misappropriation of money etc. And they are liable to be punished
 for the same. The undersigned request and pray to the police
 authorities to register an FIR against all the accused." DEFENCE OF THE ACCUSED 20. The defence of the accused qua the FIR supra, may be noted from the
 bail application (in which the application in hand has been filed), wherein it is,
 inter alia, stated as under :- Folio Name of No. of Date of Distinctive No. of As on
 No. Shareholder shares Transfer No. shares 31.3.2
 allot transfer 016 1. Yogesh 50000 2000 to 4500 -2500 52500
 Singh 2. Narender 750000 7001 to 9500 -2500 75250 Singh S/0 0 Des Raj 3. Ashali 800000 24.2.2016 2000 to 4500 5000 5000
 Infrastructur 7001 to 9500
 e Private Ltd 4. Amarjeet 2000 to 4500 5000 5000
 Dhillon 7001 to 9500 (b)It is submitted that as per the above details it clearly shows that
 in M/s Kayden Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. only 4 persons were having
 the shares on 31.03.2016 and M/s Ashali Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd.,
 was having 8,00,000 shares 16 of M/s Kayden and the owner of M/s
 Ashali Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. Mr. Amarjeet Dhillon was having
 5,000 shares of M/s Kayden Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. (c) It is submitted that in October, Nov. 2016, Mr. Narender Singh
 and Yogesh Singh decided to separate their business with Mr.
 Amarjeet Dhillon and M/s Ashali Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. and it was
 agreed by M/s Ashali and Mr. Amarjeet that they will sell the entire
 shareholding of 8,05,000 shares sold to Mr. Narender and Mr.
 Yogesh or any persons through them for a sum of Rs. 108 per
 share. The value of 805000/ comes to 86940000/- which was later
 on given to Ashali and Mr Amarjeet for transfer of their Kayden's
 shares. (d) That thereafter, it is submitted that during that time Mr. Radhey
 Shyam Soni came into the contact with accused persons and
 requested Mr. Narender Singh for giving them the shares of M/s
 Kayden and it was agreed that they will sell the share at the rate of
 Rs. 125 per share from Mr. Yogesh and Mrs. Krishna Singh who Signature Not Verified Signed By:RENUKA BAIL APPLN. 3183/2020 Page 16 of 35 NEGI Signing Date:18.08.2025 14:17:58 was purchasing from M/s Ashali will transfer the same to the family
 members of Mr. Radhey Shyam Soni. (е) It was further submitted that thereafter in lieu of agreement in
 order to purchase the share of M/s Kayden @ 125 per share sum of
 Rs. 1.50 Crores was transferred by way of three transactions in the
 following manner-1. Kapil Soni paid Yogesh Singh Rs. 53,10,000/-
 on 08.11.2016 by RTGS 2. Rajbala paid Rs. 53,10,000/- to Mr.
 Yogesh Singh on by way of RTGS on 8.11.2016 (3) Mr. Radhey
 Shyam Soni paid to Mr. Yogesh vide RTGS 8.11.2016 Rs.
 43,80,000/-. (f) It is submitted that the last amount was transferred on 8.11.2016
 and on the same day, the Hon'ble Prime Minister announced
 demonetization and therefore, the entire deal has to be stopped for
 almost about two months. It is submitted that originally it was
 agreed that Mr. Radhey Shyam Soni and his family will purchase
 total share 1,60,000 shares @ 125 per share. It is submitted that
 due to demonetization it was suggested to the complainant to make
 direct payment to M/s Ashali Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. for purchase
 of their share and the complainant and his family members made a
 direct payment to M/s Ashali Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. and similarly,
 several other persons also purchased the shares of M/s Ashali on
 the same rate @ Rs. 108 per share and in this way all the 8,05,000
 shares of M/s Kayden Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. held by M/s Ashali
 Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. were transferred in the following manner: were duly transferred on 5.2.2017 itself and the 20 transferred
 shares of M/s Kayden Infra Engineering Pvt. Ltd. was also
 transferred in the name of all the transferee including the
 Complainant and his family members. It is submitted that all the
 complainant as well as the applicant and his family members or
 other persons who purchase the share of M/s Kayden Infra
 Engineering Pvt. Ltd. from M/s Ashali Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd.
 purchased the said shares @ 108 and the receipt in this regard are
 jointly attached. It is submitted that by this way the shares for the
 entire amount of Rs. 43,66,000/- were transferred and issued to the
 complainant and his family members and the same are duly
 reflected in the records of ROC also.. (h) It is submitted that in the same manner on 6.2.2017 Mr. Yogesh
 Singh also issued the receipt and deposit the share transfer form for
 the purpose of transferring the shares to Mr. Kapil Soni, Mrs.
 Rajbala and Mr. Radhey Shyam Soni for an amount of Rs.
 1,50,00,000 however the complainant at this stage, started asking
 for issuance of shares @108 per share instead of Rs. 125/-and
 refused to come to company for transfer due to that the shares
 could not be transferred earlier. However, the receipt of that money
 and all the necessary documents for transfer of shares were
 deposited by Mr. Yogesh and Mrs. Krishna Singh in the company
 and the distinctive share folio number were also informed to the
 company by Mr. Yogesh and Mrs. Krishna Singh which will be
 transferred in the name of the complainant as and when they will
 come to company to complete the formalities. Copy of the receipts
 issued by Mr. Yogesh Singh and Mrs. Krishna Singh are attached
 herewith. (i) It is submitted that the Complainant has falsely stated that the
 shares of M/s Kayden Infra Ltd. has not been issued to them
 whereas it is matter of fact that only the shares of M/s Kayden Infra
 Engineering Pvt. Ltd. which were held by M/s Ashali Infrastructure
 Pvt. Ltd. were issued to the complainant and the same are also
 reflected since 2017 before the Registrar of Companies. The copies
 of the transferred shares of M/s Kayden Infrastructure earlier held
 by M/s Ashali Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. now transferred in the name
 of complainant and his family members are jointly attached
 herewith. (j) It is submitted that the above facts clearly shows that all the
 shares were duly issued to the complainant and there was no
 cheating whatsoever. However, it seems that now the complainant
 want money back instead of share and has trying to convert the
 simple civil transaction into criminal one. (k) It is submitted that the intention of application/accused can be
 checked from the very facts that in the present FIR the complainant
 have alleged that the accused persons have cheated them for a sum
 of Rs.1,93,66,000/- whereas as per the records maintained by M/s
 Kayden Infra Engineering Pvt. Ltd. a sum of Rs. 2,18,60,000/- was
 given instead of 22 1,93,66,000/- which shows the entire amount is
 accounted for and not a single entry or amounts are denied which
 shows the clear intention of the applicant. That the said amount
 was given in Nov. 2016 and in Feb. 2017 and the shares were
 issued in 2017 itself and whereas the complainant has registered
 the FIR in Dec. 2019 after highly belated time of almost 3 years by
 falsely alleging cheating which cannot be accepted. (l) It is submitted that the entire amount was given either to Mr.
 Yogesh (1.5Crores), Mrs. Krishna Singh(Rs 2500000/-) and M/s
 Ashali Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd.(Rs 4360000) which was given
 against the transfer of shares and the said amount was duly
 admitted by them and therefore, no other person can be liable in
 the entire allegations and the allegations of cheating and fraud
 does not hold good. (m) It is submitted that Mr. Kunal Singh was not even present in
 India in June, 2016 and was out of India which can be proved by
 his passport copy and the same is attached herewith. (n) It is further submitted that Mr. Narender Singh, Mr. Kunal
 Singh, Mr. Devki Nandan and Mr. Kailash Kumar and Mr. Krishan
 Kumar have nothing to do with the present case as they have not
 received any money from the the complainant and have nothing to
 do with the present case. It is submitted that they have also
 purchased the shares of Kayden on the same rate as purchased by
 Complainant group. That now the 23 complainant is trying to rigor
 out from the agreement of purchasing shares and is trying to get his
 money back instead of shares by tying to give a normal civil
 transaction into criminal transaction. " Following the registration of the FIR bearing No. 627/2019 PS
 Rani Bagh u/s 420 / 34 IPC, accused persons approached the Ld.
 Sessions Court seeking anticipatory bail, however the bail
 applications of accused Yogesh Singh, Narender Singh, Krishan
 Kumar and Kunal Singh and Devki Nandan were dismissed.
 Thereafter, the accused persons approached this Hon‟ble Court in
 Bail Applications bearing no. 3168/2020, 3171/2020, 3173/2020,
 3180/2020 and 3183/2020.The matter was sent to mediation vide
 order dated 19.10.2020 subject to accused persons depositing a Signature Not Verified Signed By:RENUKA BAIL APPLN. 3183/2020 Page 21 of 35 NEGI Signing Date:18.08.2025 14:17:58 sum of Rs. 1 Crore with the Registrar General of this Hon‟ble
 Court and on this condition this Hon‟ble Court granted interim
 protection to the accused. 2. That mediation failed to bring any result and the
 abovementioned bail applications was finally disposed on
 28.03.2024 wherein this Hon‟ble Court was pleased to make
 absolute the interim protection granted vide order dated
 19.10.2020 subject to further deposit of Rs. 50 Lacs. It is further
 pertinent to mention herein that the matter could not be taken for
 arguments, initially due to COVID 19 and later due to repeated
 adjournments taken by the counsel for the accused and could only
 be disposed of in 2024. Thereafter, the present
 applicant/complainant moved to Delhi. An application bearing no.
 CRL.M.A. NO. 20701 of 2024 seeking release of the
 aforementioned amount of Rs. 1.5 Crores along with the accrued
 interest in his favour. The matter was again referred to mediation
 where it was again returned „not settled‟ and the matter was listed
 for arguments on the Crl. MA 20701 of 2024 on 13.08.2025 but no
 opportunity has been granted to present complainant to address his
 arguments. 3. That no application u/s 528 of BNSS or article 226 of the
 Indian Constitution was ever filed by the accused persons and thus
 there is no reason to quash the FIR and subsequent proceedings by
 invoking the inherent power 528 BNSS without there being a just
 cause or giving appropriate opportunity to the complainant to
 address his arguments in the present matter. It is pertinent to
 mention herein that the date was fixed for limited purpose of
 seeking release of the amount deposited with the Hon‟ble High
 Court. It is pertinent to mention herein that this Hon‟ble Court has
 only accorded the opportunity to the counsel for the complainant to
 file his written submission which is against the principles of
 natural justice. 4. That it is essential to mention herein that the bail
 application had already been disposed of and no opportunity has
 been accorded to prosecution to address the arguments on
 quashing of the FIR, which is against the principles of natural
 justice. 5. That it is further essential to mention herein that no
 opportunity has been granted to bring appropriate documents
 before this Hon'ble Court either by the prosecution or the Signature Not Verified Signed By:RENUKA BAIL APPLN. 3183/2020 Page 22 of 35 NEGI Signing Date:18.08.2025 14:17:58 complainant and the quashing is being decided in undue haste. It is
 further underlined that no arguments on merits of the case were
 ever addressed by either parties on the point of quashing. Perusal
 of the status report in the disposed bail applications will show that
 the present complainant has been cheated for a sum of amount of
 Rs 1,93,66,000/-(One crore Ninety three lakhs sixty six thousand
 only) by the accused persons in a pre-planned manner. 6. That it is pertinent to mention herein that the Chargesheet
 is ready to be filed as on 13.08.2025 and the said submission was
 also made by the I.O who was present in the court. It is also
 pertinent to mention herein that since the registration of FIR on
 06.12.2019, about 5 yrs and 8 months have elapsed, however the
 same is not hit by section 468 of Cr.P.C as the punishment for
 offence as mention in the FIR is seven years. It is apposite to
 mention herein that on enquiries made by the complainant, the
 charge sheet stood filed. 7. That it is the submission of the I.O that delay was caused
 due to the delay in procuring the result of the voice recording sent
 to the FSL wherein the accused has admitted his guilt. Right to
 speedy trial, although an essential fundament right of the accused,
 has to be balanced with the interests of the complainant who has
 been cheated of a huge amount by the way of a preplanned
 conspiracy by the accused persons. It is pertinent to mention herein
 that it is settled proposition that the power under 528 BNSS (482 Cr.P.C ) has to be used sparingly and only to meet the ends of
 justice. However, the quashing of the present FIR has been taken
 up Suo moto without a just cause and without taking into account
 the irreparable loss caused to the complainant." ANALYSIS AND DISCUSSION 23. Before proceeding further, at this stage, final order dated 28.03.2024,
 vide which anticipatory bail was granted to the applicant, be seen, relevant part
 of which is as under: 24. Having given my thought to all of above, at the outset, I must observe
 herein that I am fully conscious that the instant application is under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C. seeking release of money deposited by accused as part of the bail
 condition as per the final order dated 28.03.2024, ibid. However, as per the
 guidelines laid down in State of Haryana v. Bhajan Lal1 , what has to be seen
 is whether contents of the FIR, ex facie, disclose the commission of a crime.
 Therefore, the assertion of the learned counsel for the applicant that additional
 material ought to have been allowed to be placed on record for Court's
 assistance by granting opportunity doesn't hold any ground if the FIR itself
 suffices for deciding the question. Furthermore, the arguments raised that in the
 absence to challenge to the FIR in the present application or otherwise, it
 amounts to suo motu exercise of power is also being noted only to be rejected.
 For, not only the FIR is on record, but even the complainant, accused and the Signature Not Verified Signed By:RENUKA BAIL APPLN. 3183/2020 Page 24 of 35 NEGI Signing Date:18.08.2025 14:17:58 State (prosecution) are also before this court and duly represented by their
 respective learned counsels. The term ―suo motu‖ is a latin term and means ―on
 its own motion‖. It thus refers to the power of a court to initiate proceedings on
 its own, without any proceedings initiated by any party which is not the case
 here. 24.1. Before moving further, it may also be noted that, in fact, dehors above
 position, there is no restriction on the High Court in exercising its inherent
 powers under Section 528, ibid. In any event, the present proceedings can, at
 most, be characterized as a concurrent exercise of jurisdiction--both to
 adjudicate the application for release of money and to invoke inherent
 powers--but certainly not as a suo motu action, as has already been opined,
 supra. 25. Adverting now to the fundamental question--why should the FIR be not
 quashed? This case, in my considered view, reveals glaring facts that speak for
 themselves, requiring no further embellishment or explanation. Let us delve
 into FIR by treating it gospel and proceed on that premise and break it down
 qua inconsistencies and contradictions in sub paras here after. 25.1. LODGING OF FIR AND ALLEGATIONS
 i. The FIR in question was lodged on 06.12.2019. It is alleged that the
 complainant, Radhey Shyam, had been acquainted with accused Devki
 Nandan and Kailash Kumar--both brothers--for approximately 25 years
 prior to the lodging of the FIR. These two accused allegedly introduced
 the complainant to the other accused persons, namely Narinder Singh,
 his wife Krishna Singh, and their two sons, Yogesh Singh (accused
 herein) and Kunal Singh, in June 2016. 1992 Supp (1) SCC 335. ii. Pertinent here to note that first tranche of remittance was in November,
 2016 and last in January, 2017 and yet complainant sat over it for almost
 3 years and lodged a belated FIR in 06.12.2019. iii. It is further alleged that the accused represented to the complainants that
 Narinder Singh's family owned two stone mines under their family
 company, M/s Kayden Engineering Private Ltd. They purportedly
 assured the complainants that if a sum of Rs. 1.5 crore was paid to
 Narinder Singh and his family members, they would: Pay interest at the
 rate of 24% per annum on a monthly basis; Return the principal amount
 of Rs. 1.5 crore after six months; and Thereafter, pay an additional sum
 equivalent to 1% of the monthly profits from the two mines.
 iv. Pursuant to this alleged assurance, on 08.11.2016, the complainants paid
 an aggregate sum of Rs. 1.5 crore to accused Yogesh Singh in the
 following manner: 25.2. ALLEGED INVESTMENT IN SHARES
 i. It is further alleged that subsequently, the accused represented their
 intention to sell shares of M/s Kayden Engineering Private Ltd., stating
 that purchasers would earn substantial profits. Acting on this
 representation, the complainants allegedly paid an aggregate sum of Rs.
 43,66,000/- in favour of Krishna (wife of Narinder Singh) and M/s
 Ashali Infrastructure Private Ltd., another family concern of Narinder
 Singh. ii. The promise was for issuance of share certificates in M/s Kayden
 Engineering Private Ltd., not of M/s Ashali Infrastructure Private Ltd. However, even the share certificates of M/s Ashali Infrastructure Private
 Ltd., which were allegedly issued, were not delivered to the
 complainants. Deliver the share certificates of M/s Kayden Engineering Private Ltd.
 against the payment of Rs. 43,66,000/-. 25.3. OFFENCES INVOKED
 i. On 06.12.2019, the complainants approached the police, alleging that the
 accused, by making false representations and promises, caused them a
 monetary loss of Rs. 1,93,66,000/-. It was alleged that the accused acted
 in collusion, hatched a criminal conspiracy, and induced the
 complainants to part with their money, thereby causing wrongful loss to
 the complainants and wrongful gain to themselves.
 ii. The FIR was registered under Section 420 IPC (cheating). Although the
 complainants also alleged fraud, criminal breach of trust, and
 misappropriation of money, the investigating agency invoked only Section 420 IPC, as the remaining offences could not co-exist with the
 one under Section 420 IPC. 25.4. ANALYSIS OF ALLEGATIONS
 i. Cheating under Section 415 IPC is defined as an act where a person, by
 deceiving another, fraudulently or dishonestly induces the person so
 deceived to deliver any property. Section 420 IPC prescribes punishment
 for such cheating where the inducement results in the delivery of
 property. False and dishonest representation, coupled with inducement at Signature Not Verified Signed By:RENUKA BAIL APPLN. 3183/2020 Page 27 of 35 NEGI Signing Date:18.08.2025 14:17:58 the inception of the transaction, are sine qua non for the offence under Section 420 IPC. ii. On a plain reading of the FIR, it is evident that there is no material to
 indicate that at the time of the alleged inducement--on 08.11.2016--the
 accused had no intention to perform their promise or that the
 representations were false and dishonest ab initio. The subsequent
 failure to fulfill a promise does not ipso facto establish a dishonest
 intention at inception. 25.5. NATURE OF DISPUTE
 The allegations, taken at face value, suggest that with respect to the sum
 of Rs. 1.5 crore paid on 08.11.2016, the complainants stand as unpaid
 creditors seeking recovery of principal and interest. The dispute appears
 to arise from the non-performance of contractual obligations, which has
 been given the colour of a criminal offence. 25.6. ALLEGATIONS REGARDING SHARES
 i. It is alleged that for the amount of Rs. 43,66,000/-, the accused promised
 to issue share certificates of M/s Kayden Engineering Private Ltd. and
 not of M/s Ashali Infrastructure Private Ltd. However, the complainants
 admittedly made the payments in favour of Krishna in her personal name
 and M/s Ashali Infrastructure Private Ltd. Had the promise genuinely
 been for shares of M/s Kayden Engineering Private Ltd., the payments
 would logically have been made in that company's name.
 ii. The FIR itself thus states that share certificates of M/s Ashali
 Infrastructure Private Ltd. were allegedly issued, though not delivered.
 When the complainants knowingly made payments to parties other than
 M/s Kayden Engineering Private Ltd., they cannot claim to have been Signature Not Verified Signed By:RENUKA BAIL APPLN. 3183/2020 Page 28 of 35 NEGI Signing Date:18.08.2025 14:17:58 deceived into believing that they would receive shares of that company.
 The alleged misrepresentation is inherently implausible.
 25.7. ROLE OF DEVKI NANDAN AND KAILASH KUMAR
 The complainant, Radhey Shyam, had known accused Devki Nandan
 and Kailash Kumar for over two decades. Their role appears limited to
 introducing the complainant to the other accused. There is no allegation
 in the FIR that they handled any payments or derived any benefit. Their
 implication in the FIR appears to be without substantive allegations and
 motivated by extraneous considerations. 25.8. ABUSE OF PROCESS AND EXERCISE OF INHERENT POWERS
 The registration of this FIR constitutes an abuse of the process of law.
 Permitting the continuation of the proceedings would amount to
 perpetuating the hardships, harassment and humiliation of the accused.
 To secure the ends of justice, this is a fit case for the exercise of inherent
 powers of this Court under Section 528 of BNSS to quash the FIR. This
 Court is neither denuded of its inherent powers nor precluded from
 exercising them merely because the accused have not moved a petition
 for quashing. 25.9. CONCLUSION
 Having perused and considered the FIR, this Court finds that the
 allegations in the FIR lack the essential ingredients of the offence under Section 420 IPC. What is essentially a civil dispute concerning
 repayment of money and transfer of shares has been camouflaged as a
 criminal case. CHARGE-SHEET 26. It is abundantly clear that even after an inordinate delay of nearly six Signature Not Verified Signed By:RENUKA BAIL APPLN. 3183/2020 Page 29 of 35 NEGI Signing Date:18.08.2025 14:17:58 years, the investigation remains incomplete. If any incriminating material
 against the accused had truly been unearthed, the charge sheet would have been
 filed long ago. No plausible explanation has been offered for this delay, which
 strongly indicates that either evidence against the accused is lacking or is being
 artificially manufactured. 27. Furthermore, by sheer lapse of time, the prosecution now seeks to
 exploit the inevitable fading of human memory. Hereafter, subjecting witnesses
 to cross-examination would only result in evasive and uncertain answers,
 reducing the process to a travesty of justice. Continuing with such proceedings
 would constitute an abuse of the criminal process and a futile exercise, placing
 an unnecessary burden on an already overstrained judiciary. 28. The prolonged and unexplained delay in completing the investigation
 and filing the charge sheet amounts to a clear infringement of the accused's
 fundamental right to a speedy trial as guaranteed under Article 21 of the
 Constitution of India. Supreme Court in Pankaj Kumar v. State of
 Maharashtra2 categorically held that the right to speedy trial is an essential
 part of the right to life and personal liberty. Unwarranted prolonged
 investigation causing inordinate delay in the case in hand is thus a contributory
 factor. 29. Continuing the proceedings after such an inordinate and unexplained
 delay would amount to nothing short of an abuse of the process of law, as
 recognized in Bhajan Lal , (Supra) wherein the Court laid down that where the
 continuation of proceedings amounts to harassment without any legal
 justification, inherent powers under Section 482 CrPC (analogous to Section
 528 BNSS) must be exercised to quash the same. 30. The sheer delay severely prejudices the right of the accused to defend Signature Not Verified Signed By:RENUKA BAIL APPLN. 3183/2020 Page 30 of 35 NEGI Signing Date:18.08.2025 14:17:58 themselves effectively. Material witnesses may be untraceable, and their
 memory may fade or even fail. This prejudice is a legitimate ground for
 quashing proceedings, 31. The conduct of the investigating agency clearly reflects gross negligence
 and lack of due diligence. No satisfactory explanation has been offered for the
 six-year delay, which vitiates the sanctity of the entire process and raises
 serious doubts about the bona fides of the prosecution. 32. Despite repeated opportunities for investigation, the investigating agency
 has failed to make any progress sufficient to justify failure to file a charge
 sheet. This demonstrates the absence of substantive evidence, which by itself
 warrants quashing to prevent futile prosecution. 33. The continuation of such proceedings serves no legitimate purpose and
 only adds to the burden on the judiciary, and would be a misuse of the State's
 machinery of criminal law to arm twist the opponent to succumb on the dotted
 lines. 34. Having noticed the various infirmities in the FIR, ibid, and as a
 cumulative effect of the above discussion, I am of the considered opinion that
 the allegations in the FIR seem to lack the essential ingredients to attract the
 offence of cheating ascribed to the accused. To my mind, in reality it was/is
 civil dispute arising out of non-performance of the alleged promise to pay
 interest and refund the principal amount and for the sale/purchase of company
 shares which has been camouflaged and given the colour of a criminal offence
 leading to the registration of the FIR. 35. Resultantly, I am of the opinion that the registration of the FIR was/is an
 abuse of the process of law; that allowing further continuance of consequential
 proceedings amount to perpetuating the long suffered hardships, harassment 2 (2008) 16 SCC 177. and humiliation of the accused and that in order to secure the ends of justice, it
 is fit case for the exercise of inherent powers of this court under section 528 of
 BNSS [482 Cr.PC ] for quashing the same. 36. I may also hasten to add here, though at the cost of repetition, that this
 Court is not prevented from performing it's duty or denuded of it's inherent
 powers under the law merely because the accused have not moved a formal
 petition for quashing of the FIR, as long as this court is otherwise alive to the
 entirety of the matter. In light of the foregoing, given that charge sheet has not
 been filed and as an upshot of the preceding discussion qua merits of the FIR,
 this a fit case for the Court to exercise its inherent powers under Section 528 of
 the BNSS and quash the FIR. 37. Accordingly, FIR no. 627/2019 dated 06.12.2019 u/s 420 / 34 IPC
 registered at P.S. Rani Bagh, Delhi is quashed with consequences to follow. As
 sequel thereto, the complainant's application for release of money deposited by
 the accused in bail proceedings is rejected with liberty to seek appropriate
 remedy, in civil law. 38. Before parting, though I have finished my judgment as above and
 quashed the FIR in the preceding part, but there is another aspect of the matter
 which, invariably is causa causans leading to undesirable criminal
 consequences and not necessarily due to the mens rea and, that is - excessive
 greed. This court deems it appropriate to red flag this issue in the succeeding
 part, more as an obiter dictum rather than ration decidendi.
 38.1. In the FIR it is stated that the non applicant promised to give assured
 interest @24 % per annum which he failed and thus induced the gullible
 complainants to lend money and/or invest in the mines, as the case may be.
 Assured high interest/return was also flagged as an issue in an order/judgment Signature Not Verified Signed By:RENUKA BAIL APPLN. 3183/2020 Page 32 of 35 NEGI Signing Date:18.08.2025 14:17:58 rendered by me in Anil Jindal v. State of Haryana3 (when I was a Judge in that
 Court). I intend to elaborate on the same opinion, as rendered therein, i.e. those
 who gamble with impractical promises must own their risks. People, lured by
 unrealistic returns, first willingly dive into financial traps and later cry foul
 running to seek State help. But what shakes the foundation of blind victimhood
 is, the excessive greed which comes with a price. The promise of 24 percent
 annual return on a loan, when bank deposits offer barely 1/3rd or 1/4th of that,
 should raise suspicion, not confidence. Yet, such offers continue to attract
 people like moths to a flame. Why? Because in their race for windfall gains,
 these investors conveniently ignore the basic principle of finance: higher
 returns mean higher risk. Is non servicing of debt ipso facto a crime? Accepting
 an answer in the affirmative would be fraught with danger. In a country where
 debt recovery tribunals are already inundated with cases, every debtor would,
 by extension, also be branded a criminal. This is not to deny that some debtors
 may engage in acts of financial misconduct/siphoning off etc. that can amount
 to criminal offenses. However, when a person consciously lends at high interest
 or acquires a debt, the fundamental principle of ‗buyer beware‖ should apply,
 rather than raising an outcry afterward. Proper due diligence is imperative.
 38.2. The debate thus is, more for law makers of the country to take note of,
 whether the recipient of such investments alone should carry the cross of
 criminal liability when things go south ? Indubitably, the law must hold
 accountable those who deceive. What about the conscious choice of investors
 who ignored the warning bells in pursuit of quick wealth? An uncomfortable,
 but necessary reality is if you choose to chase extraordinary gains, you must be
 prepared for extraordinary losses. Greed is not just a personal flaw; it creates
 ripple effects. When investors pump money into unsustainable ventures, they 3 2020 SCC OnLine P&H 830. inflate bubbles that harm genuine end-users and distort market equilibrium.
 And when the bubble bursts, they expect the law to paint them as victims,
 absolving them of all responsibility. The allure of easy money is a dangerous
 illusion. A responsible society cannot endorse a culture where greed
 masquerades as innocence. Investors who ignore prudence and succumb to
 unrealistic promises must understand that their choices carry consequences.
 The law must punish fraud, but it cannot shield people from the fallout of their
 own avarice. 38.3. Adding further to the debate, when you invest in fantasy, don't expect
 reality to show you mercy. Are these investors really as gullible as they claim?
 May be not. It could then rather be a façade of innocence worn by investors
 crying foul after losing money in schemes that promised them the moon. They
 knew exactly what they were signing up for i.e. unbelievably high returns of
 24% annually or 2% every month. These are not returns; these are temptations.
 Like the complainants herein fell for. Let us call it what it is: a hunger for
 unearned wealth. When someone promises riches far beyond what the market
 offers, common sense should scream ―scam.‖ But greed silences reason.
 38.4. And, there is another irony i.e. if the recipient had paid them these sky-
 high returns, he was a hero, a genius, a financial wizard. The moment the
 business crashed, either under the weight of impossible debts or otherwise, he
 became a criminal in their eyes. Overnight, their celebration turned into
 litigation. When you give unsecured loans for such outrageous returns, are you
 then as innocent an investor ? Nay, perhaps a part gambler. And every gambler
 knows the rule of the game: when you win, you cheer; when you lose, you pay.
 You cannot bet your money on wild promises and then run to the law crying
 ―victim‖ when the bet goes bad. If you had the courage to take the risk, you
 must have the spine to face the consequences. Greed is a silent crime against Signature Not Verified Signed By:RENUKA BAIL APPLN. 3183/2020 Page 34 of 35 NEGI Signing Date:18.08.2025 14:17:58 wisdom. It blinds people to the obvious, drives them into risky ventures, and
 then makes them demand sympathy when the tide turns. Fraudsters must be
 punished, yes--but should Courts become shelters for reckless risk-takers. The
 investor who demands 24% annual returns without security is not a saint
 wronged; he is a speculator who rolled the dice and lost. 39. To sum up, it may sound brutal but seems fair: if you choose greed, you
 choose risk; and if you choose risk, you choose consequences. But such victims
 ought not to pretend they were duped by magic when they walked willingly
 into the illusion. So, to every dreamer chasing quick riches--it is a wake up
 call. Easy money is a trap. If the returns sound unbelievable, believe this
 instead: you are next in line to pay the price. 40. Disposed of with these additional observations. ARUN MONGA, J
 AUGUST 13, 2025/SV Signature Not Verified Signed By:RENUKA BAIL APPLN. 3183/2020 Page 35 of 35 NEGI Signing Date:18.08.2025 14:17:58