petitioner is a transporters' organisation. The goods coming from

other states and bound for other north-eastern states have to pass

through Assam. The entry check-posts in Assam are insisting production

of the documents as contemplated in section 75(3) of the Assam Value

Added Tax Act, 2003(AVAT Act). Rule 41(9)(iv)(a) of the Assam Value

Added Tax Rules(AVAT Rules), 2005 declares that at every entry check-

post, invoice, consignment-note manifesto of the transporter and the

statutory documents of the importing state, if the goods are taxable in

that state, transit pass of other relevant states and an application for

transit pass have to be produced. 2. It is the contention of the petitioner that the insistence of statutory

documents of the importing states as envisaged in Rule 41(9)(iv)(a) AVAT

Rules is contrary to the provisions of section 76 of the AVAT Act. 12 3. It is submitted by the counsel for the petitioner Sri KN

Choudhury, Sr Advocate that section 76 is an exhaustive provision that

incorporates all the checks and balances to prevent evasion of tax in the

state of Assam in the event the goods are not really intended to be

transported to other states and surreptitiously later sold in Assam. There

is a provision in section 76 that after the issuance of transit pass at the

entry check-post if the endorsement of the exit check-post is not

produced within thirty days the authorities will have every right to levy

penalty and initiate all such necessary processes for recovery of tax,

including the penalty. It is therefore submitted that when section 76 does

not provide for production of statutory documents of the importing state

the insistence on such production by Rule 41(9)(iv)(a) is contrary to the

provisions of section 76 . 4. It is further argued that Article 286 of the Constitution of India

does not permit levy of tax by the state where the goods are transported

for the purpose of carrying to other states. Article 301 of the Constitution

of India declares that the inter-state commerce is free to all the territories

of India. In the present provision(Rule 41(9)(iv)(a)) which insists on

statutory documents of the importing state the albeit insisting security or

the payment of tax in advance in the form of demand draft or bank

guarantee is the violation of constitutional provisions and contrary to the

provisions of section 76 of the AVAT Act. 5. The counsel further submits that the insistence on statutory

documents was never invoked in the state of Assam where the Assam

General Sales Tax Act was in operation. The provision if any in the state 13 was in "desuetude" in the light of the decision of the Supreme Court in

Municipal Corporation for City of Pune and another v. Bharat Forge Co.

Ltd and others , reported in (1995) 3 SCC 434. It is argued that when a

provision of a statute is in desuetude it is not permissible to give effect to

such desuetude provision at a belated length of time, therefore it is

submitted that the insistence of statutory documents ~ alternatively the

bank guarantee, or the payment of tax in advance by demand draft ~ is

illegal, hence prayed for grant of interim order. 6. Per contra, Sri N Dutta, the senior counsel, submitted that the

provision of section 75 of the AVAT Act envisaged production of

necessary documents at the entry check-post for their verification

whether it was a bona fide inter-state transport passing through the

state of Assam. In that regard Rule 41 of the AVAT Rules envisaged

production of the statutory documents of the importing states. 7. It is said that with the advent of Internet in all the states the

access to the statutory documents online is available. The dealer who is

importing goods would have to inform the tax authorities and such

information is available online, therefore there is no difficulty for a

genuine transporter whose goods are in transit and passing through the

state of Assam for producing statutory document. 8. The argument that the provision for production of statutory

documents was never informed and was in desuetude is also stoutly

contested. The counsel relied on the judgment of the Supreme Court in Monnet Ispat and Engery Ltd v. Union of India and others reported in 14 (2012) 11 SCC 1. In para 201 and 202 of the said judgment the Supreme

Court laid down that the doctrine of desuetude cannot be invoked merely

because the provision was not enforced for a period of thirty years is not

a ground to invoke the doctrine of desuetude. 9. Para 201 and 202 of the judgment in Monnet Ispat (supra) is

quoted herein below for ready reference. Whether doctrine of desuetude attracted in respect of 1962 and 1969
 Notifications 202. Insofar as 1962 and 1969 Notifications are concerned, I am of the
 view that doctrine of desuetude is not attracted for more than one reason.
 In the first place, the Notifications are of 1962 and 1969 and non-
 implementation of such Notifications for 30-35 years is not that long a
 period which may satisfy the first requirement of the doctrine of
 desuetude, namely, that the statute or legislation has not been in operation
 for a very considerable period. Moreover, State of Jharkhand came into
 existence on November 15, 2000 and it can hardly be said that 1962 and
 1969 Notifications remained neglected by the State Government for a very
 considerable period. As a matter of fact, in 2006, the State Government
 issued a Notification mentioning therein about the reservation made by
 1962 and 1969 Notifications. Thus, the first ingredient necessary for
 invocation of doctrine of desuetude is not satisfied. Secondly, and more
 importantly, even if it is assumed in favour of the appellants that 1962
 and 1969 Notifications remained in disuse for a considerable period
 having not been implemented for more than 30-35 years, the second
 necessary ingredient that a practice contrary to the above Notifications has
 been followed for a considerable long period and such contrary practice
 has been firmly established is totally absent. As a matter of fact, except 15 stray grant of mining lease for a very small portion of the reserved area to
 one or two parties there is nothing to suggest much less establish the
 contrary usage or contrary practice that the reservation made in the two
 Notifications has been given a complete go by". 10. It is said that the provisions of section 76 do provide for collection

of tax, levy or penalty, if the endorsement of the exit check-post is not

produced; but, however as a preventive measure, Rule 41(9)(iv)(a)

envisaged production of the statutory documents, which are available

online. 11. With reference to the statistical data it is said that around one

thousand vehicles come through the entry check-posts daily ~ which

may come to Assam or go to other states. For the past fifteen days

around 15,000 trucks would have passed through the entry check-posts.

Around 250-300 trucks are stranded daily for want of statutory

documents from the importing states. When others are complying there

should be no good reason for the petitioners to seek exemption. In this

regard Sri KN Choudhury insisted that the department should file an

affidavit to corroborate the said statement. 12. Keeping in view the above submission we find that at this stage

there is serious challenge to the validity of Rule 41 of the Assam Value

Added Tax Rules, 2005, which insists production of the statutory

documents of the importing states. There is always a presumpton about

the validity of the statute unless it is rebutted. At this stage after hearing

on the interim prayer we do not find any prima facie material to hold

Rule 41 of the Assam Value Added Tax Rules, 2005 ultra vires the Assam

Value Added Tax Act, 2003 and the Constitution of India. The contention 16 that the insistence on security or payment of advance tax by way of

demand draft is a tax-collection-in-disguise violates Article 286 of the

Constitution of India is not a tenable argument. Demand drafts are

insisted only as a security to ensure that there is no misuse and violation

of the provisions of the AVAT Act, in Assam. If a transporter is able to

produce the endorsement of the exit check-post within one month, he

would be entitled to refund. There is no hardship. The amounts would be

refunded. Therefore it does not amount to collection of tax per se; it is

only a preventive measure against the misuse. In that view of the matter

we are not inclined to grant interim order at this stage. Accordingly the

interim prayer is rejected.