I.A. 647/2018 (Application on behalf of the defendant under Order
 XIII-A of the CPC , 1908) 1. The present suit has been filed by Kamdhenu Limited ("the
 plaintiff") against Aashiana Rolling Mills Limited ("the defendant"),
 seeking an injunction against the defendant's alleged infringement of
 its registered design in respect of steel bars. By way of an
 interlocutory application [I.A. 647/2018], the defendant seeks
 dismissal of the suit in exercise of the Court's jurisdiction under Order
 XIII-A of the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 [" CPC "]. I. Factual background 2. The plaintiff and the defendant both manufacture steel bars.
 The plaintiff claims to have created and developed a unique design in
 the period 2012-2013. The plaintiff's design, claiming new and
 original features in the form of surface pattern of double ribs, was
 registered under No.250968 in Class-25-01 with effect from
 14.01.2013. The Controller General of Patents, Designs & Trade
 Marks ("the Controller") issued a certificate dated 29.08.2014 to this
 effect in favour of the plaintiff. Two 'representation sheets' were
 annexed with the certificate, which included pictorial representations
 of the front and back view of the goods in question, as follows: 4. The plaintiff claims that its registered design is new, novel and
 original, and that after registration, it took steps for use and
 publication thereof, including application of the design on its best
 quality steel bars [Kamdhenu SS10000 TMT], which were launched
 on 18.06.2013. The case made out in the plaint is that the plaintiff has
 achieved considerable commercial success in the sale of steel bars of
 the aforementioned design. The monthly sales figures disclosed in the
 plaint reveal sales worth approximately ₹60 crores in FY 2013-2014,
 over ₹100 crores in 2014-2015 & 2015-2016 and approximately
 ₹83 crores in the year 2016-2017. 5. The plaintiff claims to have discovered, in June 2017, that the
 defendant is selling steel bars of an identical design under the name
 "Friends 500 HD TMT Bars". The plaintiff alleges fraudulent
 imitation of the double ribbed design popularized by it, and
 consequent infringement of the registered design in which it has a
 statutory right to exclusivity under the Designs Act, 2000 ["the Act"]. 6. The plaintiff therefore filed the present suit on 13.06.2017 in the
 District Court, Saket, which was subsequently transferred to this
 Court. The District Court granted an ex parte order of injunction on
 15.06.2017, and also appointed a local commissioner to inspect the
 defendant's premises and seize the infringing goods, packaging
 material and equipment used in manufacturing alongwith the
 defendant's business records. The application for injunction was
 ultimately heard on contest after the transfer of the suit to this Court Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHITU NAGPAL Signing Date:13.05.2021 11:02:34 I.A.647/2018 in CS(COMM) 90/2018 Page 3 of 51 and the ex parte ad interim order dated 15.06.2017 was confirmed by
 a learned Single Judge vide order dated 03.11.2017. 7. The defendant challenged the said order before the Division
 Bench in FAO(OS) 309/2017. The Division Bench considered the
 defendant's contention that the registration itself is invalid on account
 of numerous prior publications and, by its judgment dated 23.08.2018,
 set aside the order of injunction. In coming to this conclusion, the
 Division Bench held inter alia as follows: 20. During the submission, it was pointed out by
 Aashiana that the bars necessarily had to be diagonal by
 at least 45o or more else that would end up as parallel rib Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHITU NAGPAL Signing Date:13.05.2021 11:02:34 I.A.647/2018 in CS(COMM) 90/2018 Page 4 of 51 patterns and not serve the purpose intended. If that is
 taken into account, the standard indicates a limited range
 of possibilities for ribbing of the bars. For instance, if a
 ribbing at one surface is at 50o, the other would have to
 be at least at 60o. In this range, thus, there are limited
 options available to the manufacturer. Furthermore,
 these ribs would necessarily have to reflect a familiar
 pattern that the customers would choose, having regard
 to the peculiarity of the product. In these circumstances,
 the arguments that its adoption of 48o and 65o for the two
 transverse ribbing patterns, were unique and cannot be
 accepted. They merely reflected common standards -
 available in the public domain and applicable to the
 concerned product i.e. bars. As regards the contention
 that even though the products conformed to a known
 standard, they satisfied the test of novelty and
 uniqueness, is concerned, prima facie, this court is
 unpersuaded by the plaintiff's contention. The design
 (i.e. set of transverse ribs) is a part of known standards
 that are applicable and accepted by the industry and the
 manufacturers are familiar with this. Moreover, the
 range of possibilities, i.e. the limits of angularity of the
 ribs (given they are to be transverse and at least 10o
 apart) restrict the choices to an even greater extent. In
 these circumstances, this court holds that despite
 functionality, no distinct feature than can claim novelty
 was revealed, deserving design registration. This
 observation is prima facie and meant for the purpose of
 this judgment; all rights of parties to deal with it in the
 suit, are kept open. 21. The learned Single Judge, with respect to this,
 completely overlooked these salient aspects. In other
 words, a commonly applicable standard available in the
 public domain, used by the plaintiff - Kamdhenu to claim
 monopoly registration right, could not have been
 suppressed from the court or from the Controller. The
 registration of the design thus was suspect. This court
 does not wish to say anything further given that Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHITU NAGPAL Signing Date:13.05.2021 11:02:34 I.A.647/2018 in CS(COMM) 90/2018 Page 5 of 51 proceedings for cancellation of the registration are said
 to have been taken out." 8. The plaintiff approached the Supreme Court by way of
 SLP(Civil) No. 32594/2018, but the Supreme Court, by its order dated
 11.02.2019, declined special leave to appeal. 9. In the meanwhile, the defendant filed its written statement on
 16.07.2017, in which it was alleged that the plaintiff's registered
 design was not new or novel, but was itself copied from prior
 published standards, most significantly British Standard (BS
 44449:2005, category B500C). It was further alleged that the plaintiff
 had suppressed the prior published designs both from the Controller
 and from this Court. The defendant placed on record the British
 Standard 2005 as well as several other internationally published
 standards to demonstrate that the plaintiff's design was in fact one that
 was well known and published since 1984. The defendant also alleged
 that the double ribbed pattern on the steel bars is in fact a functional
 element, used to create a strong mechanical lock between concrete and
 the reinforcement bars, thus making the concrete structures in which
 they are used stronger and more durable. On this basis, the case made
 out by the defendant was that the plaintiff's design was incapable of
 registration by virtue of Section 4(b) of the Act and was liable to be
 cancelled under Section 19 of the Act. 10. During the pendency of the appeal before the Division Bench,
 the defendant also filed the present application under Order XIII-A of
 the CPC . The contents of the application are substantially similar to
 the defence taken by the defendant. On this basis, the contention of the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHITU NAGPAL Signing Date:13.05.2021 11:02:34 I.A.647/2018 in CS(COMM) 90/2018 Page 6 of 51 defendant in the application is that the suit as constituted has no real
 prospect of success, and is therefore liable to be dismissed summarily
 under Order XIII-A of the CPC . The plaintiff has resisted the
 application contending that its design was different and distinct from
 the designs relied upon by the defendant. 11. In response to the present application, the case laid out by the
 plaintiff is that the specific angles of the double ribs in the plaintiff's
 design (viz. 48o and 65o) are not evident or revealed in any of the
 Standards relied upon by the defendant, whereas the defendant has, in
 fact, copied the very same angles. The argument in this context is that
 conformity or compliance with a published standard does not by itself
 denude the design of all novelty. The Standards contemplate a vast
 range of dimensions of angles which would fulfill the requirements
 thereof, and the choice of any particular pair of angles would render
 the design novel. II. Statutory provisions 12. The relevant extracts of Order XIII-A of the CPC and the Act are reproduced hereinbelow. Order XIII-A of the CPC [inserted by the Commercial Courts
 Act, 2015 ]: 2. Stage for application for summary judgment.-- An
 applicant may apply for summary judgment at any time
 after summons has been served on the defendant: 3. Grounds for summary judgment.-- The Court may
 give a summary judgment against a plaintiff or defendant
 on a claim if it considers that-- (a) the plaintiff has no real prospect of succeeding on the
 claim or the defendant has no real prospect of
 successfully defending the claim, as the case may be; and (b) there is no other compelling reason why the claim
 should not be disposed of before recording of oral
 evidence. 4. Procedure.-- (1) An application for summary
 judgment to a Court shall, in addition to any other
 matters the applicant may deem relevant, include the
 matters set forth in sub-clauses (a) to (f) mentioned
 hereunder:-- 5. Evidence for hearing of summary judgment.-- xxx xxx xxx 6. Orders that may be made by Court.--(1) On an
 application made under this Order, the Court may make
 such orders that it may deem fit in its discretion including
 the following:-- 7. Conditional order.--(1) Where it appears to the Court
 that it is possible that a claim or defence may succeed but
 it is improbable that it shall do so, the Court may make a
 conditional order as set forth in Rule 6 (1) (b). (2) Where the Court makes a conditional order, it may:-- 8. Power to impose costs.--The Court may make an order
 for payment of costs in an application for summary
 judgment in accordance with the provisions of sections
 35 and 35A of the Code.]" section (2), it shall send a copy of the decree to the
 Controller, who shall cause an entry thereof to be made
 in the register of designs." III. Submissions on behalf of the applicant/defendant 13. The principal argument of Mr. Rajshekhar Rao, learned counsel
 for the defendant/applicant, was that the plaintiff's assertion of novelty
 and originality in paragraph 7 of the plaint, which is also a necessary
 element of a registered design, is belied by reference to various
 international standards for steel bars which are substantially similar to
 the design of the plaintiff's product. Mr. Rao referred to Sections 2(d) and 4 of the Act to submit that a design has to be original to entitle it
 to registration, and that its prior disclosure would render it non-
 registrable. He further submitted that a prior published design is
 vulnerable to cancellation by virtue of Section 19 of the Act, which
 point can also be taken in defence to an infringement suit as provided
 under Section 22(3) of the Act. According to Mr. Rao, the plaintiff's
 website (printouts of the relevant portion having been placed on
 record) itself claims that the plaintiff's design is equivalent to the
 British Standard B500C. Mr. Rao referred to the British Standard
 publication to show that the surface features, which form the basis of
 the plaintiff's claim of novelty, are based entirely upon the aforesaid
 Standards. In addition to the British Standard, which was published in
 2005, Mr. Rao also relied upon the German Standard of 1984, Polish
 Standard of 2006, International Standard 6935-2 of 2007, the Turkish
 Standard of 2010 and the Colombian Standard of 2012. His Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHITU NAGPAL Signing Date:13.05.2021 11:02:34 I.A.647/2018 in CS(COMM) 90/2018 Page 14 of 51 submission, based on these materials, was that the double ribbed
 surface pattern of the plaintiff's product did not demonstrate novelty
 or originality, and the plaintiff was, in fact, not entitled to registration
 of the design at all. 14. With regard to the plaintiff's assertion (as disclosed in the reply
 to this application) that the particular angles at which the ribs are
 placed on the plaintiff's product (48o & 65o) do not find place in any
 of the published standards, Mr. Rao submitted that the novelty claimed
 by the plaintiffs did not rest upon the specific angles of the ribs, but
 upon the placement of the double ribbed surface pattern consisting of
 longitudinal and transverse ribs. In any event, Mr. Rao submitted that
 the claim, if confined to the specific angles in question, would neither
 demonstrate significant difference from known designs, nor be
 discernable to the eye, and would thus fall foul of Sections 4(c) and 2(d) of the Act respectively. 15. Mr. Rao further submitted, in the alternative, that the novel
 feature relied upon by the plaintiff is in any event functional, as it is
 required for better grip of concrete on the rod and for identification of
 the grade of steel. He contended that the plaintiff's website and
 publications themselves refer to the transverse rib pattern as a "quality
 standard". 16. In support of his arguments, Mr. Rao cited the judgments of this
 Court in Carlsberg Breweries A/S vs. Som Distilleries and Breweries
 Limited 2017 (70) PTC 413 (Del), M/s B. Chawla and Sons vs. M/s
 Bright Auto Industries AIR 1981 Del 95, Crocs Inc. USA vs. Liberty
 Shoes Ltd. & Ors. 2018 SCC OnLine Del 7107 [CS(COMM) Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHITU NAGPAL Signing Date:13.05.2021 11:02:34 I.A.647/2018 in CS(COMM) 90/2018 Page 15 of 51 772/2016, decided on 08.02.2018], and Crocs Inc. vs. Bata India Ltd
 & Ors. 2019 (78) PTC 1 (Del). Mr. Rao also referred me to
 paragraphs 3-97, 3-100, 3-104 and 3-129 of Russell-Clarke and Howe
 on Industrial Designs (9th ed.) (2005). London: Sweet & Maxwell. 17. On the basis of these arguments, Mr. Rao urged that the plaintiff
 has no real prospect of success in the present suit, and that the suit is
 therefore liable to be dismissed under Order XIII-A of the CPC . He
 submitted that the insertion of Order XIII-A by the Commercial
 Courts Act, 2015 ["the 2015 Act"], subserves the legislative intent of
 expeditious disposal of commercial disputes. For this purpose, he also
 emphasized the preamble to the 2015 Act and the Statement of
 Objects and Reasons thereof. Mr. Rao pointed out that, despite the
 existence of several other provisions which permit the court to dispose
 of a suit without trial, the legislature considered it necessary to insert a
 specific provision for summary disposal of commercial suits. He drew
 my attention to several judgments of coordinate benches with regard
 to the scope of the provision, including Jindal Saw Ltd. & Ors. vs.
 Aperam Stainless Services and Solutions Precision SAS & Ors. , 263
 ( 2019) DLT 235, Venezia Mobili (India) Pvt. Ltd. vs. Ramprastha
 Promoters and Developers Pvt. Ltd. , 259 ( 2019) DLT 13, Mallcom
 (India) Ltd. & Ors. vs. Rakesh Kumar and Ors. , 2019 (78) PTC 201
 (Del), K.R. Impex vs. Punj Lloyd Ltd., 2019 SCC OnLine Del 6667
 [CS(COMM) 646/2016, decided on 08.01.2019], and Su-kam Power
 Systems Ltd. vs. Kunwer Sachdev & Anr. 264 (2019) DLT 326.
 According to Mr. Rao, the present case falls squarely within the
 provisions of Order XIII-A Rule 3 of the CPC , and its summary Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHITU NAGPAL Signing Date:13.05.2021 11:02:34 I.A.647/2018 in CS(COMM) 90/2018 Page 16 of 51 disposal would lead not just to the disposal of this litigation, but also
 dissuade the plaintiff from similar litigation against other parties,
 pursuant to its misguided design registration. 18. Mr. Rao also cited the judgment of a coordinate bench in Elder
 Projects Ltd. & Anr. vs. Elder Pharmacia LLP & Ors. (2019) 259
 DLT 485 as an example of a decision in which a suit ( in that case , for
 infringement of trademark and passing off) was dismissed under Order
 XIII-A holding that the plaintiff had no real prospect of success. He
 also pointed out that the Court in that case awarded costs against the
 plaintiff therein. IV. Submissions on behalf of the plaintiff 19. Opposing the application, Mr. S. K. Bansal, learned counsel for
 the plaintiff, claimed that the assertion of novelty in the plaintiff's
 product was not inconsistent with adherence to a published quality
 standard. The innovation in the plaintiff's product, according to Mr.
 Bansal, lies in the specific angles chosen out of the range of
 possibilities contemplated by the Standards. Mr. Bansal argued that
 the adoption of different specific angles or placement of the ribs
 sufficiently distinguishes the plaintiff's product and lends it novelty
 capable of registration under the Act. 20. Mr. Bansal cited the judgment of the Supreme Court in Bharat
 Glass Tube Ltd. vs. Gopal Glass Works Ltd. (2008) 10 SCC 657 to
 submit that the plaintiff's claim cannot be rejected under Order XIII-A of the CPC and that determination of the dispute requires adjudication
 upon evidence. He also cited the judgment of the High Court of Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHITU NAGPAL Signing Date:13.05.2021 11:02:34 I.A.647/2018 in CS(COMM) 90/2018 Page 17 of 51 Justice (Chancery Division) in The Matter of Wingate's Registered
 Design No. 768,611 (1935) 52 RPC 126 to urge that the Court has to
 examine the designs in question with an instructed eye to establish any
 difference between the prior and subsequent designs. Mr. Bansal also
 referred to the judgments of the Chancery Division in A. Fulton Co.
 Ltd. vs. Grant Barnett & Co. Ltd. (2001) 16 RPC 257 and Kent and
 Thanet Casinos Ltd. vs. Bailey's School of Dancing Ltd. (1965) RPC 482. He emphasized that there is no evidence in the present case of
 similar designs being commonplace or in widespread use, and that
 conformity with the Standard does not negate the novelty of a design.
 He argued that there was insufficient material in the present case to
 come to a summary conclusion that the suit was doomed to failure. 21. Mr. Bansal also cited the judgment of the Lahore High Court
 in Kartar Singh Giani vs. Ladha Singh AIR 1934 Lah 777 and of this
 Court in The Chancellor of Masters and Scholars of the University of
 Oxford vs. Narendra Publishing House & Ors. (2008) 38 PTC 385 to
 contend that publication of the British Standard ought not to foreclose
 the registration of the plaintiff's design. 22. Mr. Bansal relied upon the judgment of the Division Bench in
 Clues Network Pvt. Ltd. Vs. L'oreal 2019 (78) PTC 251 (Del) to
 submit that the plaintiff's claim cannot be rejected under Order XIII-A of the CPC and that determination of the dispute requires adjudication
 upon evidence. He argued that the power under Order XIII-A Rule 3
 of the CPC is discretionary, and would arise only if the twin tests
 specified in Rules 3(a) and 3(b) are satisfied, the burden whereof rests
 upon the applicant. He reminded the Court of the note of caution Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHITU NAGPAL Signing Date:13.05.2021 11:02:34 I.A.647/2018 in CS(COMM) 90/2018 Page 18 of 51 struck by the Division Bench in this regard in Bright Enterprises Pvt.
 Ltd. & Ors. vs. MJ Bizcraft LLP & Ors. , 2017 (69) PTC 596 (Del)
 [followed by a learned Single Judge in Rockwool International vs.
 Thermocare Rockwool India Pvt. Ltd. : CS (COMM) 884/2017,
 decided on 16.10.2018]. 23. Mr. Bansal further submitted that the dismissal of the
 plaintiff's application for interlocutory injunction ought not to
 prejudice the Court while deciding whether the plaintiff is entitled to
 proceed to trial. He drew my attention in this context to the recent
 judgment in CFA Institute vs. Brickwork Finance [CS(COMM )
 619/2018, decided on 06.10.2020] whereby, in a suit for infringement
 of trademark, passing off, etc., a coordinate bench has dismissed the
 plaintiff's application for injunction under Order XXXIX Rules 1 and
 2 of CPC , and also declined the oral prayer for summary judgment
 made on behalf of the defendant. He submitted that Order XIII-A does
 not dispense with the process of framing of issues, and that dispensing
 of recording of evidence can only be done strictly in accordance with
 the procedure specified under Order XIII-A. 24. On the issue of functionality, Mr. Bansal relied upon the
 judgment of the Bombay High Court in Whirlpool vs. Videocon (2014)
 5 AIR Bom R 396 to submit that the defence of functionality requires
 that the function can be achieved only by the particular design in
 question. He submitted that the fact that a function may be performed
 by the element in which the plaintiff claims novelty is not sufficient to
 decline registration. The registration would be declined only if the
 design element is such that it per se lends functionality to the product. V. Submissions of parties in rejoinder: 25. Mr. Rao, in his submissions in rejoinder, reiterated the scope of
 an application under Order XIII-A as laid down in Su-kam (supra) and Mehra Cosmetics vs. Ram Kumar Gulati & Ors 265 (2019) DLT 348. He distinguished the judgment of the Supreme Court in Bharat Glass (supra) on the ground that the defendant in that case had failed to
 produce any evidence to show the use of the design upon the material
 upon which the plaintiff employed its registered design. According to
 Mr. Rao, the decision of the Supreme Court turns on its reasoning that
 the material upon which the design is used is also an element of the
 registered design. Mr. Rao countered the submission of Mr. Bansal
 regarding widespread public use of the design in question by reference
 to various documents showing third party manufacture of the product. 26. Mr. Rao further submitted that, in the facts and circumstances
 of the present case, there is no necessity for trial or for a physical
 comparison of the products of the plaintiff and the defendant, unlike in
 the case of Bharat Glass (supra) decided by the Supreme Court.
 According to Mr. Rao, the documents pertaining to the registration of
 the design, upon which the suit is based, themselves make the scope of
 the registration amply clear. He also submitted that the plaintiff's
 arguments in this regard are belied by the fact that the plaintiff has not
 placed samples of physical products of either party on record with the
 plaint. The provisions of Order XI of the CPC , as applicable to
 commercial cases, according to Mr. Rao, required the plaintiff, if it
 sought physical comparison of the products, to file them alongwith the
 plaint. 27. In response to Mr. Rao's submission in rejoinder regarding the
 scope of Order XI of the CPC , Mr. Bansal submitted that the
 production of the articles in question alongwith the plaint was not
 mandatory, as these articles are, in fact, required to answer the case set
 up by the defendant, and subsequent filing is therefore permissible
 under Order XI Rule 1(1)(c). He contended, in the alternative, that the
 plaintiff would also be entitled to make an application for taking
 additional evidence on record under Order XI Rule 1(5). 28. Before dealing with the arguments of the parties on merits, it is
 necessary to appreciate the principles applicable to adjudication of an
 application under Order XIII-A of the CPC . 29. This Court has had occasion to deal with this in several
 judgments. Mr. Rao referred me to the decisions of coordinate benches
 in Jindal Saw Ltd. (supra), Venezia Mobili (supra), Mallcom (India )
 (supra), K.R. Impex (supra), Su-kam (supra) and Elder Projects Ltd (supra). Mr. Bansal, on the other hand, relied upon the Division Bench
 decision in Bright Enterprises (supra), Clues Network (supra), Rockwool (supra), and CFA Institute (supra). 30. In Bright Enterprises, the Division Bench allowed the plaintiff's
 appeal against dismissal in limine of a suit for injunction against
 infringement of trademark, passing off, etc. The Division Bench held
 that, upon the institution of a suit, the issuance of summons to the
 defendant is mandatory, and that the power under Order XIII-A can be Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHITU NAGPAL Signing Date:13.05.2021 11:02:34 I.A.647/2018 in CS(COMM) 90/2018 Page 21 of 51 exercised only upon an application being made after the service of
 summons and prior to framing of issues. In Rockwool, the learned
 Single Judge applied the judgment in Bright Enterprises and came to
 the conclusion that several of the issues arising in that case could not
 be decided without trial. 31. After the publication of the Delhi High Court (Original Side)
 Rules, 2018 ["the Rules"], a view has been taken in K.R. Impex
 (supra), Mallcom (India ) (supra) and Jindal Saw Ltd. (supra), that
 Chapter XV-A of the Rules (which would override the provisions of
 the CPC by virtue of Section 129 thereof) permits disposal of a suit by
 summary judgment on any date of hearing. However, it is not
 necessary in the facts of the present case to enter into this controversy,
 as summons have indeed been issued in the present suit, and a formal
 application invoking the provisions of Order XIII-A has been filed by
 the defendant prior to framing of issues. 32. Mr. Bansal relied upon the judgment in Clues Network (supra),
 wherein the Division Bench cited the judgment in Bright Enterprises (supra), to hold that the procedure laid down therein has to be
 followed. In Clues Network, earlier applications filed under Order
 XIII-A of CPC had already been dismissed and there was no pending
 application for this purpose. It is in these circumstances that the
 Division Bench set aside an order of the learned Single Judge
 disposing of the suit under Order XIII-A, albeit after recording that
 counsel for the parties had consented to such disposal. The
 circumstances of the present application are entirely different. It has
 been instituted in writing after service of summons and prior to Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHITU NAGPAL Signing Date:13.05.2021 11:02:34 I.A.647/2018 in CS(COMM) 90/2018 Page 22 of 51 framing of issues, as contemplated by Order XIII-A Rule 2. No
 argument has been raised by Mr. Bansal regarding the proper
 constitution or presentation of the present application, and the
 judgment in Clues Network is, in my view, of no assistance to him. 33. The circumstances in which an application under Order XIII-A
 ought to be allowed have been dealt with in Su-Kam (supra). The
 Court considered the English Law pertaining to Rule 24 of Civil
 Procedure Rules, which is in pari materia to Order XIII-A of the CPC . 34. Rule 3 of Order XIII-A lays down the tests which must be
 satisfied in order to enter judgment under the said provision. With
 regard to the 'real prospect of success' limb of the test, the judgment
 of the Chancery Division in Easyair Ltd vs. Opal Telecom Ltd. , [2009]
 EWHC 339 (Ch) was cited before the Court in Su-Kam. In Easyair,
 the Chancery Court distilled the principles thus: (Emphasis supplied.) 35. With regard to the second limb of the test, [corresponding to
 Order XIII-A Rule 3(b) of the CPC ], this Court in Su-kam has
 recorded the submission based upon the following observations in
 Blackstone's Civil Practice: The Commentary with regard to
 'compelling reasons', thus: 36. After a consideration of the Statement of Objects and Reasons
 of the 2015 Act and the English and Canadian judgments relating to
 similar provisions for summary judgment, this Court has held as
 follows: Fred Mauldin, 2014 SCC OnLine Can SC 53 has also
 held that trial should not be the default procedure. In the
 said case, which was an action for civil fraud against the
 appellant and a corporate lawyer, who acted for the
 appellant, the allegation was that the appellant, through
 that company, had transferred more than US $10 million
 to an offshore bank following which he claimed that the
 money had been stolen. That money had initially been
 transferred to the appellant's company, by the
 respondents therein, in respect of an investment
 opportunity. xxxx xxxx xxxx 47. The Supreme Court of Canada, despite allegation of
 fraud, did not exercise the power to record oral evidence.
 Instead, the Court granted summary judgment in favour
 of the respondents/plaintiff on the basis of the
 material/pleadings already available with it. The Court Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHITU NAGPAL Signing Date:13.05.2021 11:02:34 I.A.647/2018 in CS(COMM) 90/2018 Page 26 of 51 held that there is no genuine issue requiring a trial when
 the judge is able to reach a fair and just determination on
 the merits on a motion for summary judgment. The Court
 further held that that is the case when the process allows
 the judge to make necessary findings of fact, allows the
 judge to apply the law to such facts and when such a
 process is proportionate, more expeditious and a less
 expensive means of achieving a just result. Consequently,
 when a summary judgment motion allows the judge to
 find the necessary facts and resolve the dispute, it would
 not be necessary to proceed to trial. In this regard the
 standard for fairness is whether or not the procedure
 involved in a summary judgment would give the judge the
 confidence to find necessary facts and apply the relevant
 legal principles to resolve the dispute... xxxx xxxx xxxx 49. Consequently, this Court is of the view that when a
 summary judgment application allows the Court to find
 the necessary facts and resolve the dispute, proceeding
 to trial would generally not be proportionate, timely or
 cost effective. It bears reiteration that the standard for
 fairness is not whether the procedure is as exhaustive as
 a trial, but whether it gives the Court the confidence
 that it can find the necessary facts and apply the
 relevant legal principles so as to resolve the dispute as
 held in Robert Hryniak (supra). 50. In fact, the legislative intent behind introducing
 summary judgment under Order XIIIA of CPC is to
 provide a remedy independent, separate and distinct from
 judgment on admissions and summary judgment under Order XXXVII of CPC . xxxx xxxx xxxx 52. Consequently, this Court is of the opinion that there
 will be 'no real prospect of successfully defending the
 claim' when the Court is able to reach a fair and just
 determination on the merits of the application for
 summary judgment. This will be the case when the
 process allows the court to make the necessary finding of
 fact, apply the law to the facts, and the same is a Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHITU NAGPAL Signing Date:13.05.2021 11:02:34 I.A.647/2018 in CS(COMM) 90/2018 Page 27 of 51 proportionate, more expeditious and less expensive
 means to achieve a fair and just result." (Emphasis supplied.) 37. In Su-Kam, the Court also explained an earlier judgment of the
 learned Single Judge in Venezia (supra), wherein it was held that the
 principles under Order XII Rule 6 and Order XIII-A are similar,
 inasmuch as the Court is required to consider whether the defences
 raised by the defendants are a moonshine and sham. Under both
 provisions, judgment may be entered without trial, if the Court comes
 to the conclusion that the suit raises no genuine triable issues. This
 was clarified in Su-Kam to the extent that the remedies are
 independent, separate and distinct, but were considered in a composite
 manner in Venezia as the plaintiffs therein had filed separate
 applications under the two provisions. 38. Although the judgment of the learned Single Judge in Su-Kam (supra) has been carried in appeal [RFA(OS)(COMM) 1/2020], the
 Division Bench has not stayed the operation of the judgment. 39. The judgment of a coordinate bench in Mehra Cosmetics (supra) is also instructive as to the approach to be applied. The Court
 noticed that under the 2015 Act, a suit is supposed to be disposed of
 without trial, in the absence of any real prospect of success of either of
 the parties. In the context of a suit alleging infringement of trademark
 and design, the Court held as follows: 40. In view of the aforesaid judgments, I am required to consider
 whether a fair and just determination of the dispute is possible without
 trial, where the necessary facts can be determined without trial and
 legal principles applied to those facts, summary judgment would be
 available, rather than requiring the parties to incur the expenditure of
 time and resources required for a trial. 41. I may also note, in this context, Mr. Bansal's submission that
 the judgment of the Division Bench dated 23.08.2018, rejecting the
 plaintiff's application for injunction, is not conclusive of this issue.
 Mr. Bansal relied upon CFA Institute (supra) to demonstrate that the
 Court can take the view that an interlocutory injunction is unmerited,
 while also rejecting the defendant's application for summary
 judgment. In view of the fact that the determination of an injunction
 application turns only upon a prima facie assessment of merits, I
 accept Mr. Bansal's submission that the dismissal of the injunction
 application does not per se lead to a conclusion that the plaintiff does
 not have any real prospect of success for the purposes of summary
 judgment. B. Authorities regarding novelty and prior publication 42. With regard to the principles of novelty in a registrable design,
 three of the judgments cited require somewhat detailed consideration. 43. The judgment in Carlsberg Breweries (supra), relied upon by
 Mr. Rao, is a detailed judgment dealing with infringement of design.
 The Court considered the statement of novelty in respect of a
 registered design of a glass bottle and came to the conclusion that the
 shape of the bottle is in fact similar to most other bottles. With respect
 to various indentations/grooves found on the plaintiff's bottle, the
 Court returned the following findings regarding the question as to
 whether the plaintiff's bottle stands out, i.e., appeals to the eye: (Emphasis supplied.)
 While undertaking a comparison of the bottles of the plaintiff and the
 defendant, the Court observed that the indentations/grooves do not Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHITU NAGPAL Signing Date:13.05.2021 11:02:34 I.A.647/2018 in CS(COMM) 90/2018 Page 31 of 51 prima facie form an essential part of the novelty in the plaintiff's
 design. 44. To demonstrate that the question of originality of the design of
 the plaintiff would be relevant to a determination of a suit for
 infringement, Mr. Rao cited the judgment of the learned Single Judge
 in Crocs Inc. (2018) (supra) (paragraphs 19 and 20), which was
 carried in appeal, and decided by the Division Bench in Crocs Inc.
 (2019) (supra). The Division Bench, on the question of prior
 publication, held as follows: (Emphasis supplied.) 45. In the decision of B. Chawla (supra), after a consideration of
 the applicable precedents, the Division Bench held as follows: (Emphasis supplied.) 46. The question of prior publication has also been dealt with in
 Russell-Clark and Howe on Industrial Designs (9th edition, 2016), as
 follows: 3-123 On the same point Romer LJ said: 3-124 It is not permissible to make a mosaic of a number
 of prior documents for the purpose of attacking novelty.
 If the attack on novelty is to succeed, the design must be
 disclosed in the single prior document. If, however, one
 document contains a reference to another document, the
 two may be read together." 47. The defendant has, in support of this application, relied upon
 several international standards, including the British Standard B500C,
 the German Standard of 1984, the Polish Standard of 2006,
 International Standard 6935-2 of 2007, the Turkish Standard of 2010
 and the Colombian Standard of 2012. These Standards are pressed into
 service to contend that the plaintiff's design is not an original design,
 but one which had been disclosed by publication prior to the date of
 the plaintiff's application for registration, contrary to Section 4 of the
 Act. 48. The plaintiff's design registration dated 14.01.2013 has been
 placed on record. The certificate of registration is in respect of the
 application of the design for 'rod for construction'. Attached with the
 certificate are two representation sheets containing the 'front view'
 and the 'back view' of the product: 49. Beneath both these images, there is an 'endorsement of novelty'
 in the following terms: (It appears from copies placed on record that the endorsement of
 novelty, as originally printed/typed, referred to the "shape,
 configuration and surface pattern" of the "steel beams", but was
 amended in hand to read as quoted above.) 50. The British Standard upon which the defendant relies, is entitled
 "Steel for the reinforcement of concrete - Weldable reinforcing steel -
 Bar, coil and decoiled product - Specification" (BS4449-2005)
 published in 2005. The version of the British Standard placed on
 record by the defendant incorporates amendments until 30.04.2007,
 well before the plaintiff's application for registration. Clause 1 of the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHITU NAGPAL Signing Date:13.05.2021 11:02:34 I.A.647/2018 in CS(COMM) 90/2018 Page 39 of 51 aforesaid document makes it clear that it applies to ribbed weldable
 reinforcing steel used for the reinforcement of concrete structures,
 which will be delivered in the form of bars, coils or de-coiled
 products. Different standards are prescribed for three grades of steel,
 B500A, B500B and B500C. The terms longitudinal rib and transverse
 rib are defined in clauses 3.3 and 3.4 of the British Standard as
 follows: 51. The defendant's claim is based upon the Standard of B500C
 bars which reads as follows: 52. In addition to the aforementioned British Standard, the
 defendant has also placed on record the standards adopted in several
 other jurisdictions which, according to it, reveal similar prior
 publication of the design in question, and its application to steel bars.
 One of those was published by the International Standards
 Organization ["ISO"] in 2007 (ISO 69035-2) and is entitled 'Steel for
 the reinforcement of concrete - Part 2: Ribbed Bars'. This was
 apparently circulated to all the members of the ISO. The foreword to
 this document mentions the Draft International Standards, adopted by
 its technical committee and circulated to its member bodies for voting,
 and that their publication as an International Standard requires
 approval of at least 75% of its voting members. The document lays
 down various specifications for ribbed bars to the plaintiff's design. 53. Although the defendant has also relied upon the German
 Standard of 1984, the Polish Standard of 2006, the Turkish Standard
 of 2010, and the Colombian Standard of 2012, none of those
 documents are in the English language. I therefore do not propose, for
 the purposes of deciding this application, to rely upon them. Suffice it
 to say that Mr. Rao pointed out the images contained in these
 documents which, according to him, represented the design found in
 the plaintiff's steel bars: 54. In addition to relying upon the aforementioned Standards, Mr.
 Rao has also drawn my attention to paragraph 10 of the plaint, in
 which the plaintiff had itself asserted that its product conforms to the
 "quality standard at par with British Standard B500C". The relevant
 assertion in paragraph 10 of the plaint is as follows: (Emphasis supplied.) 55. The defendant has also placed on record screenshots of the
 website of the plaintiff (www.kamdhenulimited.com). The following
 two statements on the plaintiff's website are of relevance for the
 present purposes: (Emphasis supplied.) 56. As noted above, Mr. Bansal urged that conformity with
 published standards cannot render a design prior published. He
 submitted that such a finding would denude many registered designs
 of protection, by reason merely of compliance with acceptable
 standards for production of goods. His further response to the
 aforementioned Standards was to assert that the particular combination
 of angles employed in the plaintiff's design confer upon it sufficient
 novelty as to enable its registration under the Act. 57. I am unable to accept Mr. Bansal's contention that compliance
 with published standards can never be sufficient to constitute prior
 publication of a design. This would have to be determined upon a
 consideration of the particular design and the published standards. The
 significant factor to be noted in the present case is that the Standards
 cited by the defendant are in fact standards of the design itself. It is the
 surface pattern comprising of transverse and longitudinal ribs at an
 angle to each other that constitutes the standard in question. These are
 not generic stipulations, but give a detailed enumeration of the
 elements of the design. The product can be produced by reference to
 the design in question. The situation would have been different if the
 standard had been of a characteristic which was not related to the
 design but to some other feature of the product, for example, the
 length of the rod, its weight, etc. Where the novelty claimed by the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHITU NAGPAL Signing Date:13.05.2021 11:02:34 I.A.647/2018 in CS(COMM) 90/2018 Page 43 of 51 owner of the registered design resides in the very element which is
 described in the standard with a reasonable degree of specificity, the
 design cannot be said to be novel or original. 58. The adoption of a particular combination of angles is also not
 determinative. It may be noted at the outset that the plaintiff's
 registered design does not mention the particular angles of 48o and 65o
 at all. In fact, as noted above, it is in the 'surface pattern' marked in
 the images at A and B, that novelty is claimed to reside. Significantly,
 the word "configuration", which originally found place in the
 endorsement of novelty, was struck out prior to registration of the
 design. Further, the combination of angles available to a manufacturer
 is limited by the stipulation of BS500C that "(t)he difference between
 the angles of the different ribs and the bar axis shall be at least 10o".
 In any event, I am of the view that the plaintiff cannot claim the
 benefit of the specific angles in view of the definition of design in Section 2(d) of the Act and the prohibition contained in Section 4(c) thereof. The particular angles in the plaintiff's design, are not
 discernible by the eye alone, as required in Section 2(d) and are not
 significantly distinguishable from the published standard, contrary to Section 4(c) . 59. To my mind, the case argued on behalf of the plaintiff, in fact,
 goes beyond the registered design of which the plaintiff seeks
 protection, and is in excess of the plaint filed in the suit. The
 certificate of registration, as mentioned above, does not refer to the
 angles in question, and neither does the plaint. In fact, in paragraph 10
 of the plaint (set out in paragraph 54 hereinabove), the plaintiff itself Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHITU NAGPAL Signing Date:13.05.2021 11:02:34 I.A.647/2018 in CS(COMM) 90/2018 Page 44 of 51 asserts its compliance with the Standards. The undisputed assertion on
 the plaintiff's website is even more categorical when it refers to the
 "double ribbed pattern design equivalent to British Standard B500C" 60. The above conclusion is also supported by the decisions cited
 above. Applying the judgment in Carlsberg (supra) to the facts of the
 present case, it is clear that the idea of longitudinal and transverse ribs
 at a given angle to each other is not new in itself, and the particular
 angles in the plaintiff's product are but a "different combination of
 familiar contrivances". In B. Chawla (supra), a conclusion of this
 nature was reached, relying inter alia upon various standard models of
 bicycle mirrors published in Japan's Bicycle Guide. This is an
 authority therefore to suggest that publication of the design in a
 standard publication can constitute prior publication for the purposes
 of the Act. In the same judgment, the Court also noticed that the
 plaintiff's claim of originality was not borne out from the endorsement
 of novelty in the registered design. Drawing upon the judgment in Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHITU NAGPAL Signing Date:13.05.2021 11:02:34 I.A.647/2018 in CS(COMM) 90/2018 Page 45 of 51 Crocs (2019) (supra), I am satisfied that an instructed reader of the
 Standards would have been able to imagine the design without
 recourse to his/ her own originality. The Standards contain
 illustrations of the design in question, as well as clear instructions for
 the reader. 61. The judgments cited by Mr. Bansal in this context do not
 persuade me to a contrary conclusion. 62. The principal judgment relied upon by Mr. Bansal is that of the
 Supreme Court in Bharat Glass. In that case, the prior published
 design was of a roller which could be used to produce the same pattern
 on various materials like plastic, rexine, glass, etc. The design of the
 roller was registered with the UK Patent Office and available on their
 website. The design registered under the Act in India applied the same
 pattern on glass sheets. The Supreme Court came to the conclusion
 that the UK registration of the roller was insufficient to render the
 design prior published. Coming to this conclusion, the Court observed
 inter alia as follows: 63. The Court cautioned that the simultaneous production of the
 two articles would be necessary for the Court to appreciate the
 similarity in the designs. Although it was contended that the same
 design had been applied upon glass sheets prior to registration in
 India, those glass sheets had not been produced. In fact, the Court
 noticed that the manufacture of the design on glass was not supported
 by any evidence at all (Paragraphs 41 and 45 of Bharat Glass). In the
 present case, the question of a difference in materials upon which the
 design is applied does not arise. The British Standard is for ribbed
 steel bars alone, and the plaintiff itself claims adherence to that
 standard. The judgment of the Supreme Court does not require that, in
 every case, the products must be physically produced for comparison.
 The purpose of physical production of the articles in question is to
 enable satisfactory comparison. In the present case, the question of
 comparison does not arise - the plaintiff's argument is not that the
 registered design is different from the British Standard, but that
 adherence to the Standard does not make the design non-registrable.
 This question does not turn on a comparison of the two products, i.e.
 the plaintiff's product and the product alleged to constitute prior
 publication. 64. Mr. Bansal also relied upon the judgment of the Chancery
 Division in A. Fulton Co. (supra) (paragraphs 54, 58 and 60). At the
 outset, it may be noted that the observations of the Chancery Division Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHITU NAGPAL Signing Date:13.05.2021 11:02:34 I.A.647/2018 in CS(COMM) 90/2018 Page 47 of 51 in the aforesaid paragraphs concern the construction of the term
 'commonplace' in Section 213(4) of the English Copyright Design
 and Patent Act, 1988. The Act does not use the same terminology. Mr.
 Bansal relied upon this judgment to emphasise the distinction between
 an article being commonplace (which does not render the design
 unprotected) and the design itself being commonplace (which does
 render it non-registrable). It was noted in A. Fulton Co. that even
 where the broad parameters of size and shape of an article may be
 commonplace, there is considerable scope for detailed design works to
 be undertaken within those parameters and for the creation of a shape
 or configuration which has its own special qualities. The Court also
 emphasised that differences which are relatively small in quantitative
 terms, and therefore not easily estimable without design expertise,
 may make a significant difference to the design itself. I am of the view
 that these questions do not arise in the facts of the present case. As
 mentioned hereinabove, neither the plaintiff's registered design nor
 the plaint itself relies upon a particular combination of angles chosen.
 The registration is in respect of the double ribbed surface pattern per
 se, which was clearly disclosed in the Standard. This is not a case of
 broad parameters which would be applicable to every steel bar, within
 which the plaintiff has developed a particular design. The disclosed
 parameters included specifications of a range of angles and the
 plaintiff has adhered to those. There is no claim of variance from the
 disclosed design which might require expert evidence to discern. 65. Similarly, in Kent & Thanet (supra), which was a case of
 infringement, the defendant argued that the registered design was Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHITU NAGPAL Signing Date:13.05.2021 11:02:34 I.A.647/2018 in CS(COMM) 90/2018 Page 48 of 51 nothing more than a modification of a known design, and that too for
 functional purposes. The Chancery Division referred to the statement
 of novelty attached to the plaintiff's certificate of registration and
 rejected the contention that the generality of the statement would
 cover substantial variations from the illustrated design. The Court
 cautioned against a generalised reading of the statement of novelty. I
 am of the view that this judgment does not take the plaintiff's case any
 further. The plaintiff, in effect, seeks an interpretation of the statement
 of novelty, which includes the particular angles employed by it. This
 is not permissible on the plain terms of the endorsement of novelty;
 the question of an excessively generalized reading does not arise. 66. Mr. Bansal's reliance upon Kartar Singh Giani (supra) is also
 misplaced. The High Court of Lahore in that case, while dismissing an
 action of infringement of copyright, observed as follows: 67. Mr. Bansal's reliance upon this judgment was to contend that
 the publication of the British Standard ought not to foreclose the
 registration of the plaintiff's design. However, the observations of the
 Lahore High Court are to exactly the opposite effect. It is the plaintiff,
 in an action for infringement such as the present one, which seeks to
 inhibit the defendant's production of the article in question. The
 matter therefore turns on the question of prior disclosure and the
 observations of the Lahore High Court do not provide any guidance on Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHITU NAGPAL Signing Date:13.05.2021 11:02:34 I.A.647/2018 in CS(COMM) 90/2018 Page 49 of 51 that aspect. For similar reasons, I do not consider the judgment in Chancellor of Masters and Scholars (supra) to be of any relevance in
 deciding the present dispute. 68. In Wingates (supra), the Court emphasised that the comparison
 between two designs would require the assistance of expert witnesses.
 However, as stated hereinabove, the present case does not require any
 such comparison as the scope of similarity and difference, between the
 plaintiff's product and the alleged prior publication, is undisputed. 69. In the light of the above discussion, I am of the view that the
 plaintiff's registered design was, in fact, not registrable in terms of Section 4 of the Act, and that this conclusion does not require
 evidence to be led. D. Functionality of the plaintiff's design 70. The second ground upon which the defendant assails the
 plaintiff's registered design is that the design is, in fact, functional
 and, therefore, does not fall within the definition in Section 2(d) of the
 Act. In view of my conclusion on the point of prior disclosure, it is not
 necessary to decide this question at this stage. VII. Conclusion: 71. In the facts and circumstances aforesaid, I hold that the
 defendant has established that the plaintiff's registered design was, in
 fact, a prior published design, and the registration is therefore contrary
 to Section 4 of the Act. I am further satisfied that the present case is a
 fit one for exercise of power under Order XIII-A of the CPC . The
 material upon which I have reached the above conclusion is Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHITU NAGPAL Signing Date:13.05.2021 11:02:34 I.A.647/2018 in CS(COMM) 90/2018 Page 50 of 51 undisputed material which is already placed before the Court, and no
 further trial on this account is required. I therefore find that the
 plaintiff has no real prospect of success in the suit. There is also no
 other compelling reason to record oral evidence in the present case. 72. For the reasons aforesaid, I.A. 647/2018 is allowed, and
 summary judgment is entered, dismissing the suit. The application is
 disposed of in these terms. CS (COMM) 90/2018 73. In view of the aforesaid judgment in I.A. 647/2018, the suit
 stands dismissed. Decree sheet be drawn accordingly. PRATEEK JALAN, J. MAY 12, 2021
 'hkaur' Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHITU NAGPAL Signing Date:13.05.2021 11:02:34 I.A.647/2018 in CS(COMM) 90/2018 Page 51 of 51