1. The petitioner is a statewide Association. It is registered and established under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 with the object of safeguarding the rights of the persons belonging to Scheduled Tribes and espouse their cause in regard to their employment. Complaining fraud and misrepresentation the association filed this writ petition praying for a writ of or in the nature of Mandamus, holding that the appointment of the first respondent herein to the post of District and Sessions Judge, is void, unconstitutional, and also for a prayer to set aside the same. 2. When the writ petition was listed before this Full Bench on 27-3-2001, it was brought to our notice that the first respondent filed W.P No. 18031 of 1999 questioning a show cause notice dated 16-8-1999, issued by the Mandal Revenue Officer, Parvathipuram (MRO), calling upon him to show cause as to why his application for

issuance of Caste Certificate to his children and other family members as belonging to "Konda Dhora", (Scheduled Tribe) should not be rejected for the reasons mentioned therein, In view of this, while ordering notice before admission in the present case, we directed the matter to be listed along with other writ petition. On 17-4-2001 both writ petitions were listed before us. We issued Rule Nisi in the present writ petition. The learned counsel for the first respondent, however, sought permission of the Court to withdraw W.P. No. 18031 of 1999 to enable his client to approach the revenue authorities by filing explanation to the show cause notice. The said writ petition was accordingly dismissed as withdrawn. This writ petition was heard elaborately on six different days over a period of about two months. The learned Senior Counsel, who appeared on behalf of the petitioner and the first respondent, placed before us entire material in support of their respective contentions. The material documents include various sale deeds, executed by father and grandfather of first respondent, official documents, extracts of school admission registers, judgment of the Civil Court as well as the judgment passed by this Court. PLEADINGS: 3. In the affidavit filed in support of the writ petition, the President of the petitioner-Association, has made the following allegations: The petitioner-Association is espousing the cause of the members of the Scheduled Tribes who are poor, illiterate and uninformed, by taking up issues relating to atrocities committed on them and fight with those who produce false Social Status Certificates to obtain admission in educational institutions and public employment in State and Central Government. The first respondent is holding the post of District and Sessions Judge under the A.P. State Higher Judicial Service. He obtained employment by producing false Social Status Certificate as belonging to

Konda Dhora, a Scheduled Tribe, and enjoying the benefit of reservation provided for the STs under the Constitution. The tribals being poor are not in a position to fight with the first respondent, and therefore, the petitioner-Association, which is espousing their cause, has locus standi to file the writ petition. 4. The first respondent was appointed as District and Sessions Judge in the year 1986 in a post reserved, for STs. The family of first respondent hails from "Sodaka" village, Aska Sub-Division, Ganjam District, now in the State of Orissa. They migrated to Salur town in Vizianagaram District. They belong to KSHATRIYA caste. In-several registered documents executed by the grandfather and father of the first respondent, they were described as belonging to KSHATRIYA. In school admission register, the caste of first respondent was described as ORIYA KSHATRIYA. The younger brother of first respondent was admitted in Pedakomatipeta Municipal High School, and in the school admission register, his caste was described as ORIYA KSHATRIYA. Till 1979, the first respondent described his caste as KSHATRIYA only. 5. The first respondent applied for the post of District Munsif in the year 1981 in the quota reserved for STs. For the said purpose, he obtained a false Social Status Certificate claiming himself to be belonging to Konda Dhora. Though he was selected in ST quota, the A.P. Public Service Commission did not appoint him on the ground mat Social Status Certificate produced by him, was a false one, and accordingly cancelled his selection. Aggrieved by the said order of cancellation, the first respondent filed W.P. No. 559 of 1981 before this Court. The said writ petition, however, was dismissed as withdrawn. Later, the first respondent filed suit being O.S. No. 8 of 1985 on the file of the Subordinate Judge, Parvathipuram (for short 'the Sub-Court') for a declaration that he belongs to Konda Dhora Tribe. The said suit was decreed on

26-4-1985. The Court of the District Judge, Vizianagaram, dismissed the appeal preferred by the State in A.S. No. 45 of 1985. The second appeal being S.A. No. 722 of 1986, preferred before this Court, was also dismissed by order dated 12-9-1988. However, during the pendency of the second appeal, the first respondent applied to the post of District and Sessions Judge Grade-11 in the year 1986, in the quota reserved for Scheduled Tribes. The first respondent was selected. He was given order of appointment with a rider that his appointment will be subject to the orders that may be passed in the second appeal. The second appeal was dismissed, and by reason of which first respondent has been working as District and Sessions Judge. The petitioner came to know about the fraud when the District Unit of the petitioner-Association placed several documents before it. 6. It was brought to the notice of the petitioner that one Ambati Vincent, Vice President of Adivasi Vikhas Parishat, filed W.P. No. 30827 of 1998 before this Court for issuance of a Writ of Quo Warranto against the first respondent, which was dismissed on 16-6-2000 at the stage of admission holding that Writ of Quo Warranto does not lie. The petitioner was further informed that special leave petition being S.LP. No. 14473 of 2000, filed before the Supreme Court against the said judgment, was also dismissed at the stage of admission. 7. The Government of Andhra Pradesh conducted an enquiry into the social status of the first respondent and his family members. The enquiry appears to have revealed that first respondent does not belong to Konda Dhora, a Scheduled Tribe, but belongs to KSHATRIYA caste. In the enquiry, the social status of the father, brothers and nephews of the first respondent was ascertained, and it was found that they do not belong to ST. Based on the enquiry report the Revenue Divisional Officer (RDO),

Parvathipuram, issued notice to the first respondent and other members of his family to show cause as to why their application for issuance of Social Status Certificate as belonging to Konda Dhora, a ST should not be cancelled. Further the first respondent and his family members appear to have filed applications before the RDO for issuance of fresh Social Status Certificate in terms of the provisions of the A. P. (Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Backward Classes) Regulation of Issue of Community Certificates Act, 1993 (A.P. Act 16 of 1993; hereinafter referred to as 'the Act'). When on enquiry it was established that the first respondent does not belong to ST, the RDO issued notice to the first respondent directing him to show cause as to why his request for issuance of Social Status Certificate, should not be rejected. Challenging the said show cause notice, the first respondent filed W.P. No. 18031 of 1999, and this Court by order dated 26-8-1999 passed in W.P. M.P. No. 22488 of 1999 suspended the show cause notice. 8. The first respondent does not belong to any of the tribes mentioned in the Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order, 1950. He, therefore, played fraud on the Constitution and obtained decree from Sub-Court. The case of the first respondent before the Sub-Court was that he belongs to Konda Raju, which is equivalent to Konda Dhora. The decree of Sub-Court is void ab initio, as it has no jurisdiction to declare a particular community as equal to any other tribe, listed in the Schedule under Article 342 of the Constitution of India. The appointment of the first respondent to the post of District & Sessions Judge is based solely on the judgment of the Sub-Court, as confirmed by the High Court in second appeal, which is void ab initio. The Social Status Certificate obtained from the Tahslidar, Salur in the year 1979, is not valid. Now under the new Act, the first respondent applied for issuance of Social Status Certificate to the RDO,

who is the competent authority under the Act, and who after thorough enquiry found that first respondent does not belong to Konda Dhora, but belongs to KSHATRIYA caste. Since first respondent has played fraud on the Constitution, he should not be permitted to hold a post under the Constitution. 9. The fourth respondent-Government of Andhra Pradesh through its Deputy Secretary has filed a brief counter-affidavit inter alia stating that the enquiries conducted by the RDO revealed that B.S. Bhanj Dev, the grandfather of A.P. Bhanj Dev migrated from Orissa State long back and settled in Salur. He has no relationship with the local hill tribes. Alekh Narayana Purshottam Bhanj Dev s/o. Braja Sundar Bhanj Dev has three sons namely, Aditya Pratap Bhanj Dev (first respondent), R.P. Bhanj Dev and G.P. Bhanj Dev. Their date of births and particulars of caste are not traced in Salur Municipality records. The first respondent was born in a place other than in the State of Andhra Pradesh. The caste of the first respondent could not be found. However, the caste of the brothers of first respondent was entered in the records of MUP School, Pedakomatipeta, Salur, as ORIYA KSHATRIYA. The RDO issued a show cause notice on 29-4-1999 to the first respondent to show cause as to why his application for issuance of Social Status Certificate as Konda Dhora, should not be rejected as per the enquiry report available with him. The necessity of causing enquiry arose because the first respondent and his brothers applied for Social Status Certificate as belonging to Konda Dhora, for their children. As the enquiry in relation to cancellation of Caste Certificate issued to first respondent and his family members is pending before the competent authority, the writ petition is premature. 10. The first respondent filed a lengthy counter-affidavit, affirmed by him on 15-4-2001. He states that the petitioner is

not entitled to invoke extraordinary jurisdiction of this Court under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, as there is no infringement of any fundamental or statutory right. He states that he was appointed in the year 1987 vide GO Ms. No. 3, General Admn. (S.C.F) Deptt, dated 5-1-1987 and that the petitioner has not explained as to why it waited for 14 long years to file the writ petition. There is no public interest involved in the writ petition. He states that persons inimical to him have set up the petitioner-Association to file the writ petition. Earlier, writ petition being W.P. No. 30827 of 1987, filed against the first respondent for issuance of Writ of Quo Warranto was dismissed, and the SLP there against also stood dismissed, and hence, present writ petition is barred by principles of res judicata. 11. While denying various allegations made in the writ petition the first respondent avers that his forefathers have been permanent residents of Satur village ever since 1890. After obtaining degree in Law, he started law practice in Salur in the year 1976. He applied to A.P.P.S.C. for the post of District Munsif in the quota reserved for Scheduled Tribes, by annexing Community Certificate dated 9-7-1979 issued by the Tahsildar, Salur showing that he belongs to Konda Dhora. The Joint Collector, Vizianagaram, issued a notice dated 22-6-1980 for conducting enquiry with regard to his community. He appeared before the Joint Collector and submitted both oral and documentary evidence in support of his claim that he belongs to Konda Dhora, a Scheduled Tribe. The documentary proof consists of various statutory proceedings from 1903 onwards. He did not receive any communication from the Joint Collector after the enquiry. However, A.P.P.S.C. communicated a Memo dated 21-1-1981 stating that his candidature did not come up for selection for the post of District Munsif as "he does not belong to ST". He, therefore, filed W.P. No. 559 of 1981 challenging the said Memo. At the time of final hearing of

the writ petition, it was felt that the proper remedy was to file suit under that provisions of the Specific Relief Act as it involved taking of evidence on the issue whether he belonged to Konda Dhora community or not. Therefore, on 9-8-1981, the writ petition was dismissed as withdrawn. He filed a suit being OS No. 35 of 1982 on the file of the District Munsif, Salur, for declaration that he belongs to Konda Dhora. The same was transferred to the Court of the District Munsif, Gajapathinagaram, as O S No. 138 of 1983, and again from there it was transferred to the Court of Subordinate Judge, Parvathipuram, as OS No. 8 of 1985. 12. The trial Court decreed the suit on 28-4-1985. The appeal being A.S. No. 45 of 1985 filed by the defendants on the file of the Additional District Judge's Court, Vizianagaram, was dismissed on 20-2-1986. The second appeal being S.A. No. 722 of 1986, was also dismissed on 12-9-1988. During the pendency of the second appeal, he was selected as District & Sessions Judge Grade-11 under ST quota. He was appointed vide GO Ms. No. 3, dated 5-1-1987 with a clause that his appointment would be subject to the result of second appeal. While applying to the post of District & Sessions Judge, he appended the certificate dated 9-7-1979 issued by the Tahsildar, Salur, stating that he belongs to Konda Dhora community, which is a notified ST. After dismissal of the second appeal, the Government issued GO Rt. No. 1700, General Administration (SC.F) Department, dated 30-4-1990 to the effect that first respondent shall be deemed to have been appointed as District & Sessions Judge in the vacancy reserved for ST. Subsequently, he was promoted to the category of District & Sessions Judge Grade-1 in the year 1995. 13. The petitioner-Association has no locus standi to file the writ petition for none of the members of the petitioner-Association are candidates aspiring for appointment to judicial officers posts. As he is working

under the control of High Court of Andhra Pradesh, the said authority only can raise the issue. When the proceedings attained finality, parties are bound by the judgment, and applying the principle of 'estoppel of cause of action', the writ petitioner' is estopped from filing the writ petition. He also states that he did not claim any benefits like scholarship or other financial benefits, as he is ineligible. But as he is eligible for reservation in employment, he claimed reservation as ST, and his children were issued Social Status Certificates as ST by the competent authority on different occasions. He applied for issuance of Social Status Certificates to his children to the MRO in the prescribed form under Act 16 of 1993. The same has not been disposed of till now. The Sub-Collector, Parvathipuram, however, sent copy of the show cause notice dated 16-8-1999 addressed to his brother Sri. Rajender Pratap Bhanj Deo. He sent a reply dated 24-8-1999 to the Sub-Collector, in view of the applications filed by him on behalf of his children, and also because the show cause notice was also served on him. He states that Konda Dhoras reside on the high lands and are known as Pedda Kondalu and those who reside on the plains are known as Chinna Kondalu. He also stated that not a single registered document existed in his name or in the name of his children showing his caste as KSHATRIYA in registered documents in the Sub-Registrar's Office. He also denies that in his school records, and those of his children, caste was noted as ORIYA KSHATRIYA. 14. The first respondent further states that there is no caste as "Konda Raju" in existence, but some Konda Dhoras call themselves as Konda Rajus or KSHATRIYA due to their elevated position as Zamindars and landlords. He denies the allegation that he played fraud on the Constitution. The allegation that he obtained decree to the effect that he should be treated as Konda Dhora is incorrect and baseless. The

earlier certificates issued by MRO and JMFC are still in force, and he did not obtain the said certificate on the basis of the judgment of the Civil Court. He further states that he did not obtain appointment to the post of District Judge with the help of false Social Status Certificate, and that only to create hurdles in his way, representations/writ petitions are being filed by certain interested persons by using the petitioner-Association. RIVAL CONTENTIONS: 15. Sri. B. Tarakam, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner submits that admittedly the forefathers of first respondent migrated from Orissa where there is no caste by name Konda Raju and that the first respondent obtained ST certificate from the Tahsildar, Salur by misrepresentation and fraud. When the said Certificate was not accepted by APPSC at the time of the first respondent's attempt to get appointed as District Munsif, he filed OS No. 8 of 1985 on the file of the Sub-Court for a declaration that the hill tribe community known as Konda Raju is no other than Konda Dhora, a Scheduled Tribe, and accordingly obtained a declaratory decree which itself is a nullity. The first respondent obtained appointment as District Judge by producing false community certificate and decree, which is a nullity. The learned Senior Counsel for the petitioner submits that first respondent committed fraud on the Constitution. The petitioner, which is espousing the cause of ST people has locus standi to file writ petition and seek a writ of mandamus against the first respondent. The learned Senior Counsel in support of his submissions, placed reliance on various judgments of the Supreme Court as well as various documents, which are on record. Sri E. Manohar, learned Senior Counsel for the first respondent submits that as none of the members of the petitioner-Association is a candidate for any judicial office, a PIL cannot be entertained, and that the petitioner

has no locus standi to file this writ petition. He further submits that as long as the certificate issued by the Tahsildar, Salur dated 7-7-1979 is in force, the social status of the petitioner cannot be doubted, and his appointment cannot be set aside. He nextly contends that the conduct of first respondent in describing himself as Konda Raju and obtaining a decree as equivalent to Konda Dhora, does not amount to fraud in law. At the relevant time, according to the learned counsel, the law was not well settled, and therefore, the Civil Court was competent to declare a community, which is not included in the list of Scheduled Tribes as equivalent to a community in the notified list, and therefore, the decree is not a nullity. In any event, it is submitted that a Division Bench of this Court dismissed W.P. No. 30827 of 1999 filed by Ambati Vincent holding that the Social Status Certificate was not obtained by playing any fraud, and that the first respondent did not play any fraud, and in view of this, the question cannot be reopened at the instance of a stranger. He also submits that there are adequate provisions under Act 16 of 1993, and this Court should leave it open to the authorities to enquire about the truth or validity of the community certificate obtained by the first respondent showing that he belongs to Konda Dhora. 16. Sri Naushad Ali learned Government Pleader for Social Welfare reiterated the submissions in the counter-affidavit. POINTS FOR CONSIDERATION: In Re Point No. 1: 17. The preliminary objection of the first respondent to this Writ Petition is two-fold; (i) None of the members of the petitioner-association is claiming a judicial post and hence they cannot have any grievance; and (ii) that the issue involved does not have elements of public interest. On this point we are afraid we cannot agree with the learned Senior Counsel for the first respondent. 18. There cannot be any denial that the Constitution ensures due representation to SCs and STs in Legislative bodies as well as in public employment. These provisions are intended to achieve egalitarian social order. While speaking in a Constituent Assembly Sri K.M. Munshi observed: 19. The saga of uplifting of STs started in right earnest. The State action in resorting to positive discrimination in their favour by policy of reservation in public service has not yielded desired results. Many problems and many hurdles did not allow the reservation policy for STs to proceed smoothly. The problem of fake and false claims in the name of STs is resulting in adverse effects on the working of the policy. In KUMARI MADHURI PATIL v. ADDL . COMMISSIONER, and DIRECTOR OF TRIBAL WELFARE v. LAVETI GIRI , AIR 1995 SC 1506, the Hon'ble Supreme Court denounced the practice of persons claiming benefits conferred on STs by producing fake, false and fraudulent certificates, and observed thus: 20. In VASANTH RAO v. GOVERNMENT OF A.P. , 1995 (1) ALD 801, this Court described indifferent attitude of the nation towards tribals as follows: 21. By reason of geography, economic backwardness, illiteracy and ignorance, most of the STs are not even aware of the benefits available to them. More often than not, Constitutional bodies like UPSC, APPSC etc., are not able to fill up the posts reserved for STs only because there are no qualified candidates available. When such is the case, who can successfully abort fake and false claims? The associations like the petitioner are only the answer. It is not denied before us that the petitioner is a registered association since 1960s and that it is interested in the welfare of STs in general and ST employees in particular. Further, the complaint made is that a fraud is played on the Constitution by first respondent, whereby another ST candidate was denied the benefit, which was guaranteed to him under the Constitution. When we consider the question of locus standi and

the question whether the petitioner is 'aggrieved' or not these factors should be kept in mind. 22. In referring to precedents on the law of PIL, we need not go beyond 1982 when the Supreme Court in S.P.GUPTA v. UNION OF INDIA , , laid down principles of law. The decisions of the Supreme Court and other High Courts on the subject are galore. Instead of referring to these decisions, we may summarise the principles of Public Interest Litigation as would emerge from various judgments of the Supreme Court and other Courts. 23. The Supreme Court in a recent judgment rendered in VINOY KUMAR v. STATE OF U.P. , , held as under: 24. The above principles of PIL jurisdiction are well-settled. It is not necessary to quote from those judgments. We may, however, quote a passage from H.S. CHOWDHARY'S case (supra), which is relevant. In the said judgment , the Supreme Court explained scope and object of the 'new chapter in justice delivery system' PIL thus: 25. In WADHWA'S case (supra), fraud on the Constitution was alleged against State of Bihar in promulgating and repromulgating Ordinances. The Supreme Court observed that every citizen has a right to be governed by validly made laws and when fraud on the Constitution is committed every citizen can complain to a Constitutional Court. In view of this, it is futile to contend in a matter of this nature that a ST. Welfare Association has no locus standi to approach this Court. We should not lose sight of the constitutional scheme whereunder the role of protecting the citizens including SCs and STs from invasion of their rights is assigned to the Courts. Accordingly, we hold that the case involves public interest and the petitioner-association has locus standi to file this Writ Petition. Point No. 1 is answered accordingly. Whether the decree of the Civil Court in OS No. 8 of 1995 declaring first respondent as belonging to Konda Dhora community is not nullity as one without jurisdiction? 26. The facts in relation to this issue are admitted. First respondent after passing his LL.B course enrolled as an Advocate on the rolls of the Bar Council of Andhra Pradesh in 1976. He appeared for the post of District Munsif, (now designated as Junior Civil Judge) in A.P. State Judicial Service in response to an advertisement given try the A.P.P.S.C. In seeking such employment, he produced a community certificate issued by MRO. Though he was selected, he was not appointed, as A.P.P.S.C. doubted the genuineness of the community certificate produced by him. The matter was referred to the District Collector, and on the basis of the report submitted by revenue

officials, his selection was cancelled. The Government issued Lr. No. 3249/F9-280-11, dated 9-12-1980 (See para 3 of the judgment in OS No. 8 of 1985) informing all concerned that first respondent cannot be treated as belonging to ST. As per the said Memo, first respondent claimed to belong to Konda Dhora community, based on his relationship with Sri. L.N. Sanyas Raju and Sri S.J. Narayan Jana Dev, who were themselves found not to belong to Konda Dhora community. Based on the said Memo, the A.P.P.S.C. by Memo No. 174/DM/079, dated 21-10-1981 informed first respondent accordingly. This gave cause of action to first respondent to file a suit for declaration that he belongs to Konda Dhora community, which ultimately was numbered as OS No. 8 of 1985 on the file of the Court of Subordinate Judge, Parvathipuram. 27. There cannot be any doubt that the suit was under Section 34 of the Specific Relief Act, 1963. It is rather doubtful as to how the suit for mere declaration without any consequential relief was maintainable. Be that as it may whether jurisdiction of the Civil Court to issue a declaration that a person belongs to a particular caste, which comes under Scheduled Tribe, is ousted by reason of Section 9 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908? Section 9 of the CPC lays down that a Civil Court shall have jurisdiction to try all suits of a civil nature "excepting suits of which cognizance is either expressly or impliedly barred". The law is well settled that unless the suit is expressly or impliedly barred, the doctrine of ubi jus ibi remedium (where there is a right there is a remedy) is attracted, (see Most Rev. PMA METROPOLITAN v. MORAN MAR MARTHOMA , ). 28. We need to address the question as to whether the Civil Court is competent to declare a particular tribe is equivalent to ST in the Presidential Order and/or whether the Civil Court is competent to declare a

citizen as belonging to ST, though such a person does not belong to ST, but claims to
belong to ST? 29. A person shall be held to be a member of ST, if he belongs to a tribe which under the Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order, 1950 has been declared to be a Scheduled Tribe for the area of which such person is a resident. The Constitution provides for special treatment to backward classes notwithstanding Articles 15(1) and 16(1) of the Constitution. The more backward classes like SCs and STs are given constitutional protection by Articles 335 , 341 read with V & VI Schedules to the Constitution of India. Reservation to SCs and STs is available "for the purpose of the Constitution"; that is to say for attainment of the constitutional goals of equality, liberty and justice. Article 341 empowers the President of India to specify by notification various castes, races, groups etc. "for the purpose of the Constitution" to be deemed to be SCs in relation to each State or Union Territory as the case may be. Article 342 reads as follows: 30. Article 366(25) defines 'Scheduled Tribe' as to mean such tribes or tribal communities or parts of or groups within such tribes or tribal communities as are deemed under Article 342 to be Scheduled Tribes for the purposes of this Constitution. 31. Therefore, the tribes or tribal communities, which are specified in the notification issued by the President of India under Article 342(1) alone are deemed to be STs for claiming benefits under the Constitution of India. The President of India in exercise of powers under Article 342(1) notified Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order, 1950, which was amended by Parliament under Article 342(2) by SCs & STs Order (Amendment) Act, 1976. As per the Constitution (ST) Order in relation to the State of Andhra Pradesh, Konda Dhora community, is ST vide item No. 13 of the said Order. No person who does not belong to Konda Dhora can claim to belong to Konda Dhora either by a process of comparison, or can by a process of equalization, and/or by reason of residence hill/tribal areas, can claim to belong to Konda Dhoras. This is because Article 342 creates legal fiction, which has to be given its fullest effect. By reason thereof, any caste or tribe or tribal community, which does not come within the purview of Constitution (STs) Order, cannot be treated or claimed to be as belonging to ST as per Article 366(25). Further, where a person migrates from a State in respect of which his community is Scheduled Tribe to another State in respect of which his community is not Scheduled Tribe, he will continue to be a member of the Scheduled Tribe only in relation to the State in respect of which his community is Scheduled Tribe. This Constitutional principle is well-settled. (See RAJESHARJUN BHAIYA v. STATE OF MAHARASHTRA, and PALGHAT JILLA THANDAN SAMUDHAYA SAMRAKSHANA SAMITHI v. STATE OF KERALA , ). In BHAIYA LAL v. HARIKISHAN SINGH, 

and PARSRAM v. SHIVCHAND , , the apex Court declared the law to the effect that it is not permissible for the Courts to issue directions for exclusion or inclusion of any caste or tribe from the Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes Order, 1950, and that Parliament alone has power to alter the lists of STs under Article 342(2) of the Constitution. 32. The question of jurisdiction of the Civil Courts to pass decree of declaration that a person belongs to ST and/or that a community/tribe claimed by a person is equivalent to a Scheduled Tribe, is no more res integra. There are catena of decisions on this point. We may briefly refer to some of these binding precedents. 33. In Basavaungappa v. Munichinnappa , , a Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court considered the scope of Article 341(1) and (2) [ which is in pari materia with Article 342(1) and (2)] , and held that it is not open to any person to lead evidence to establish that the caste to which he belongs to is the same as and/or part of another caste, which is included in the Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Order. It was observed: 34. In BHAIYA LAL'S case (supra), another Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court considered similar issue and after referring to BASAVALINGAPPA'S case (supra) held: 35. In PARSRAM'S case (supra), the Supreme Court followed BASAVALINGAPPA'S case and BHAIYA LAL'S case and held that Court cannot give any. declaration that a person belongs to Scheduled Caste. In SIRSH KUMAR CHAUDHURY v. STATE OF TRIPURA, , a three Judge Bench of the Apex Court reiterated that Court to add to or subtract any caste from the Presidential Order. The above principle was again reiterated in KUMARI MADHURI PATIL'S case (supra). 36. In S. SWVIGARDOSS v. ZONAL MANAGER, FCI , , the Supreme Court observed: 37. In NITYANAND SHARMA v. STATE OF BIHAR , , the Supreme Court considered the question as to whether a person who does no belong to or fails to prove that he is a tribe, can claim -to have included in the STs Order on the ground that the community to which he belongs is none other than ST. The question was answered in the negative, holding that: 38. In STATE OF TAMIL NADU v. A. GURUSAMY , , the facts are these: Respondent was described a member of 'Thotti' while he was studying in the school. As per the Constitution (Scheduled Caste) Order, 'Thotti' was notified as Scheduled Caste at item No. 67. Subsequently, in 1970, the respondent obtained a certificate from RDO indicating him to be 'Kattunaicken' as item No. 9 of the list of STs in the State of Tamil Nadu, issued by the President under Article 342(1) read with Article 366(25) of the Constitution. When he applied for permanent certificate, an enquiry was conducted, and it was found that respondent was not a ST, and accordingly the certificate was cancelled. A suit was filed for declaration that he is 'Kattunaicken'. The trial court granted the decree of declaration, which was affirmed by the appellate Court. The second appeal to the High Court was also dismissed. The State carried the matter in appeal to the Supreme Court. The apex Court allowed the appeal reversing the judgment and decrees of the trial, appellate and second appellate Courts holding that the declaration issued by the Courts below is unconstitutional and without jurisdiction. The apex Court further held : 39. In a latest decision of the apex Court in STATE OF MAHARASHTRA v. MILIND , AIR 2001 SC 393, a Constitution Bench again inter alia considered the question whether it is permissible to hold enquiry and let in evidence to decide or declare that any tribe or tribal community is included in the general name even though it is not Specifically mentioned in the concerned entry in the Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order? After referring to BASAVAUNGAPPA, BHAIYA LAL, NITYANAND SHARMA, PARSRAM and other cases, the Supreme Court laid down the following principles governing this branch of Indian Law: 40. In MILIND'S case, the facts are as follows: The respondent therein had a certificate showing that he belongs to 'Halba' Scheduled Tribe, and based on the same he applied for MBBS degree course in 1985-86 in the reserved category. He was included in the merit list of ST candidates. As per the procedure, the certificate was sent for verification to the scrutiny committee in the Directorate of Social Welfare, Pune. After

conducting enquiry, the Directorate concluded that respondent did not belong to 'Halba' ST community, and hence certificate issued to him was rejected. The administrative appeal filed by him was dismissed recording that respondent belongs to 'Kosti' caste and that he does not belong to 'Halba/halbi' Scheduled Tribe. The respondent filed writ petition at the Nagpur Bench of Bombay High Court to set aside the orders passed by the Director-of Social Welfare and Additional Tribal Commissioner, which invalidated the community certificate given to him as belonging to ST. The High Court allowed the writ petition holding that 'Halba Kosti' is sub-tribe of Halba/halbi. Aggrieved by the same, the State of Maharashtra filed appeal before the Supreme Court. A reading of the judgment shows that there were interim orders at the stage of granting special leave permitting respondent to continue the course. By the time, civil appeal was decided on 28-11-2000, the respondent; completed the course and was practising as a doctor. Therefore, the Supreme Court did not annul the admission and observed that the admissions and appointments shall remain unaffected by the judgment. The observations made in Para 37 of reported judgment cannot be taken to be of general application in all the States and in all cases. Those observations are made in the context of that case so as to give respondent the benefit of the MBBS degree. The same cannot be taken to save all the community certificates obtained fraudulently and/or through Civil court declarations. We are making these observations as the learned Senior counsel for first respondent repeatedly drew our attention to para 37 of the judgment to drive home the point that after long lapse of time the Court may not be inclined to annul the appointment. 41. There cannot be any iota of doubt that a suit for declaration of Scheduled Tribe and/or a suit for declaration that an unincluded community be declared as

equivalent to a tribe in the Scheduled Tribe Order, is expressly and impliedly barred. The Civil Court has no jurisdiction to pass such a decree. 42. It is axiomatic that a decree passed by a Court without jurisdiction is nullity. The same does not operate as res judicata nor does it bind the parties thereto or parties claiming through such a suit. A decree, which is nullity, does not confer any enforceable right. In KIRAN SINGH v. CHAMAN PASWAN , , the apex Court observed: 43. The above judgment was referred in M.C. SETHI v. R.P. KAPOOR, and A.R. ANULAY v. R.S. NAYAK, . 44. An halfhearted submission is made before us that when the Civil Court decree OS No. 8 of 1985 was passed on 28-4-1985, the law is not welt settled as is now declared in MILIND'S case, and therefore, the decree passed at the relevant time was not without inherent lack of jurisdiction. Reliance was placed on the judgments of the apex Court in BHAIYA RAM MUNDA and ANIRUDH

PARAR (supra), which are to the effect that it is permissible to let in evidence, and decide/declare that a tribe is equivalent to another tribe included in the notified list. We are afraid, we cannot accept the submission for reasons more than one. Firstly, the judgment in ANIRUDH'S case was specifically over-ruled in MILIND'S case. Secondly, before the first appellate Court in A.S. No. 45 of 1985, the decision of the Constitution Bench of the apex Court in BHAIYA LAL'S case was cited and the same was not applied on the ground that "it has no application to the facts of the case". Thirdly, even by the date the trial Court, the appellate Court and second appellate court decided the matter, the two Constitution Bench judgments in BASAVAUNGAPPA'S case and BHAIYA LAL'S case declared the law, which was binding on all the Courts. Indeed, as noticed by the Division Bench of this Court in W.P. No. 30287 of 1998 dated 16-6-2000, in the Second Appeal filed by APPSC, and State of AP against the judgment in A.S. No. 45 of 1985, a substantial question of law was formulated as to 'whether the Courts below have jurisdiction to give finding that Konda Raju community, Which is known as 'Konda Dhora community, which is not included in the Presidential Order'? 45. Sri B. Tarakam, learned senior counsel has placed before us copy of the judgment in OS No. 8 of 1985 on the file of the Subordinate Judge, Parvathipuram. Therein first respondent alleged that he belongs to hill tribe community known as Konda Raju that he is related to L.N. Sanyasi Raju who belongs to Konda Raju by community, and therefore, Konda Raju community of the plaintiff comes under ST. He also alleged that he and his ancestors belong to class of hill rulers who call themselves Konda Rajus, which is same as Konda Dhora living in the Districts of Vizianagaram, Srikakulam and Visakapatnam, who were declared as STs. After narrating the litigation from 1979 when he applied for the post of District Munsif, and the reasons why he was not selected, he asked for declaration that he belongs to caste of Konda Dhoras. It is not denied before us that by reason of being Konda Raju he sought for declaration that the same is equivalent to Konda Dhora, which is included in the Scheduled Tribes Order. We have no manner of doubt to record that the suit as laid was not maintainable, and the Civil Court had no jurisdiction to entertain the suit for it suffered from inherent lack of jurisdiction. Further the judgment of the appellate Court is also void being per incurium as the same ignored the law laid down by the Supreme Court in BHAIYA LAL'S case (supra). 46. Aggrieved by the judgment of the first appellate Court in A.S. No. 45 of 1985, as noticed above, APPSC and State of A.P. filed SA No. 722 of 1996 in which a substantial question of law of general importance as noticed above was formulated, as required under Sub-section (4) of Section 100 CPC. The second appeal was dismissed by brief order dated 12-9-1988, which reads: 47. We have already referred that the decree of Civil Court declaring first respondent - admittedly belonging to Konda Raju as equivalent to Konda Dhora is nullity. We may also observe that as per Sub-section (5) of Section 100 CPC, the second-appeal shall be heard on the substantial question of law as formulated under Section 100(4) of CPC. Therefore, the decree of the Civil Court, as affirmed by the Additional District Judge as well as this Court in second appeal is nullity and the same has to be ignored by

all the authorities concerned. We answer point No. 2 accordingly. Whether the appointment of first respondent as District & Sessions Judge in A.P. State Higher Judicial Service is not liable to be declared as void, illegal, and unconstitutional on the ground that first respondent obtained appointment by fraud, and such appointment is vitiated by fraud on the Constitution of India? 48. The consideration of this point requires examination of the following questions (i) whether the acts and conduct of first respondent as well as his declaration in plaint may be taken as proof of fraud, and whether there are circumstances which lead to an inference that fraud was played in claiming appointment as ST. (ii) whether the judgment of the Division Bench in W.P. No. 30827 of 1998 has attained finality, and in that background in the absence of any order canceling the community certificate dated 9-7-1979 issued by the Tahsildar, Salur, and the certificate dated 9-11-1979, issued by the Judicial First Class Magistrate, Salur, this Court is precluded from issuing mandamus by declaring that first respondent played fraud in obtaining appointment as District Judge, and (iii) having regard to Act 16 of 1993 and the Rules made thereunder, whether the authorities must be allowed to conduct enquiry under Section 5 of the said Act, or whether this Court itself can examine the material available on record and give relief to the petitioner as prayed for. 3(i) Whether on admitted facts and circumstances, fraud can be inferred: 49. While examining the above issues, it is appropriate to notice various legal aspects of fraud and misrepresentation, and the effect of fraud on Court proceedings and other administrative decisions. What is fraud and misrepresentation? 50. Fraud is not capable of precise definition. It can be more perceived than explained. The broad contours of the element of legal fraud are, however, well settled. Fraud is a conduct either by letter or words, which induces the other person, or authority to take a definite determinative stand as a response to the conduct of former either by word or letter. Bigelow on 'Fraud' gives the following definition See KERR on the Law of Fraud and Mistake (First Indian Reprint by ULP) : 51. The expression 'fraud' is different from 'negligence'. Negligence is not fraud, but negligence may be evidence of fraud as held by House of Lords in DERRY v. PEEK, (1889) 14 AC 337. Every dishonest act is not fraud, but every act of fraud involves dishonesty and an intention to deceive. Whether deception or deceit practiced by one on the other requires intention of deception depends on circumstances of each case, but as we presently see, in private law/ common law, mere fraud without proof of intention to act mala fide or not to act bona fide and/or without intention to deceive does not vitiate the action nor does it act as stigma on the actor. Such an action is voidable. But in public law, fraud on public authorities, fraud on administrative authorities acting by or under the law fraud on statute or the Constitution does not require proof of bad intention or mala fide. Fraus et jus nunquam cohabitant (fraud and justice

never dwell together) and fraus et dolus nemini patrocinari debent (fraud and deceit defend or excuse no man), are two well known legal maxims which are universally accepted. In a particular situation, without anything else, fraud can be conclusively inferred if a person tries to approbate and reprobate and/or blows hot and cold. 52. It is also well settled that misrepresentation itself amounts to fraud. Indeed, innocent misrepresentation may also give reason to claim relief against fraud. A fraudulent misrepresentation is called deceit and consists in leading a man into damage by willfully or recklessly causing him to believe and act on falsehood. "It is a fraud in law I if a party makes representations which he knows to be false, and injury ensues although the motive from which the representations proceeded may not have been bad". (See Kerr on Fraud). 53. In DERRY'S case (supra), the House of Lords considered a case where plaintiff took shares in the defendant company believing in the prospectus issued by the plaintiff-company that it has the right to use steam power instead of horses for pulling their tram carriages. When the Board of Trade refused permission to the company to use steam, the plaintiff sued for action of deceit against the Directors alleging fraud. The trial Judge held that defendants were not liable as the statement as to steam power was made in honest belief that it was true. The Court of Appeal reversed, but the House of Lords upheld the decision of the trial Judge. A distinction was drawn between a statement which was made knowing fully well that it was false in a reckless and negligent manner and between a statement which was made believing and having faith that such statement is true. In the leading judgment by Lord Herschell, the law was stated thus: 54. Apart from the principles as to proof of fraud laid down in DERRY'S case (supra), fraud can also be inferred. Proof of substantial part of misrepresentation is sufficient, and it is not necessary in order to establish fraud that direct affirmative or positive proof of fraud is to be given. In many cases circumstantial evidence is not only sufficient, and it is only proof that can be adduced. (See Kerr on Fraud). The burden of proof in such cases is on the person who demurs fraud and who has to prove that he has not made any misrepresentation and/or that such misrepresentation was made under a bona fide belief that it was true. 55. In precedents dealing with the principles of fraud and mis-representation, we have already referred to DERRY'S case (supra). Yet another celebrated authority is LAZARUS ESTATE v. BERLY, (1956) 1 All. ER 341. 56. In the said case, Lazarus Estates enhanced the rent in respect of their flat occupied by the defendant on the ground that they are entitled for such increase "as they had done work of repair so as to qualify them for increase" and "the conditions justifying an increase were fulfilled". The tenant opposed the increase on the ground that the declaration of Lazarus Estates of carrying out repairs was false and fraudulent since to the knowledge of the landlords, repair had not been carried out. When certain documents were sought to be marked in the County Court, objections were raised as to the, validity of the documents by the tenant on the ground that they are false and fraudulent. The question before the Court of appeal was whether-the documents/ declarations by Lazarus Estates can be challenged on the ground of false and fraudulent or the defendant has to challenge them in criminal Courts. Repelling the contention Of Lazarus Estates that they should be challenged in Criminal Court, the Court of appeal ruled: 57. The Constitution of India made special provisions for STs and also laid down procedure for specifying communities as STs "for the purposes of the Constitution". This is intended to subserve a constitutional purpose of achieving 'de facto equality' among those people who have been for ages ignored by those who govern. Any attempt by all concerned either to deny the benefits under the Constitution to STs or to allow those people not belonging to STs, the benefits against their disentitlement would amount to mockery of the policy of reservation. It subverts the constitutional philosophy, and therefore, it is a fraud on the Constitution 58. Any action by the authorities or by the people calming under the Constitution which subverts the constitutional purpose must be treated as a fraud on the Constitution for the Constitution did not intend to confer special benefits on those who do not belong to STs. When the Constitutional reservations are implemented, the underlining theme is that unequals cannot be treated as equals, and therefore, the former require steps to remove handicaps. Any attempts to make dents into such purposeful State action must be considered as fraud on the Constitution. 59. In D.C. WADHWA v. STATE OF BIHAR , , PANKAJ BHARGAVA v. MOHINDER NATH , and SHRISHT DHAWAN v. SHAW BROTHERS , , the Supreme Court considered the effect of fraud in public law and fraud on the statute. 60. In WADHWA'S case (supra), a Professor of Political Science and two others challenged the validity of the practice of the State of Bihar in promulgating and repromulgating ordinances on a massive scale. An objection was raised that the petitioners had no locus standi to maintain the writ petition. The objection was overruled by the Supreme Court holding that it is the right of every citizen to insist that he should be governed bylaws made in accordance with the Constitution and not laws made by the executive in violation of constitutional provisions. Following the judgment in GAJAPATINARAYAN DEO v. STATE OF ORISSA , , the Supreme Court observed that 'a constitutional authority cannot do indirectly what it is not permitted to do directly'. If there is a constitutional provision inhibiting the constitutional authority from doing an act, such provision cannot be allowed to be defeated by adoption of any subterfuge, and that would be 'clearly a fraud on the constitutional provision'. 61. In PANKAJ BHARGAVA'S case (supra), the permission of the Rent Controller under Section 21 of the Delhi Rent Control Act; which enables the landlord to let out the premises to a tenant, was held by the High Court as marred by fraudulent suppression of facts as the same was merely unspecified sanction of a subsisting tenancy, which had earlier come into existence. It was contended to be 'fraud on the statute'. While accepting that fraud on statutes vitiates the permission, the following observations were made by the Supreme Court: 62. In SHRISHT DHAWAN'S case (supra), the question was whether permission under Section 21 of Delhi Rent Control Act applied by the landlady was vitiated by fraud and mis-representation. In the main judgment, Sahai, J, referred to DERRY'S case (supra), and observed that fraud in public law is different from fraud in private law, and that the ingredients which established fraud in commercial transactions are of no assistance in determining fraud in Administrative Law. It was also observed that in public law the duty is not to deceive though the colour of fraud in public law assumes different shades in action. It was observed that disclosure of incorrect facts knowingly and deliberately amounts to fraud when the same is used to invoke the exercise of power and procure an order from an authority. It was held: 63. In S.P. CHENGALVARAYA NAIDU v. JAGANNATH , , the Supreme Court while quoting Edward Coke that "Fraud avoids all judicial acts, ecclesiastical or temporal" - reiterated that a judgment or decree obtained by playing fraud on the Court is nullity and nonest in the eye of law, and that such a judgment/decree - by the first Court or by the highest Court - has be treated as nullity by every Court, whether superior or inferior. It was also held that it can he challenged in and Court even in collateral proceedings. [See Para 1 in ]. It was further observed that the principle of "finality of litigation" is not available when fraud is alleged. It is apposite to quote the following: 64. In INDIAN BANK v. SATYAM FIBRES (INDIA) PVT. LTD. , (, the Supreme Court after referring to Lazarus Estates and other cases observed that 'since fraud affects the solemnity, regularity and orderliness of the proceedings of the Court it also amounts to an abuse of the process of the Court, that the Courts have inherent power to set aside an order obtained by practising fraud upon the Court, and that where the Court is misled by a party or the Court itself commits a mistake which prejudices a party, the Court has the inherent power to recall its order". While so observing, it was further held that- The judiciary in India also possesses inherent power, specially under Section 151 CPC, to recall its judgment or order if it is obtained by fraud on Court. In the case of fraud on a party to the suit or proceedings, the Court may direct the affected party to file a separate suit for setting aside the decree obtained by fraud. Inherent powers are powers, which are resident in all Courts, especially of superior jurisdiction. These powers spring not from legislation but from the nature and the constitution of the tribunals or Courts themselves so as to enable them

to maintain their dignity, secure obedience to its process and rules, protect its officers from indignity and wrong and to punish' unseemly behaviour. This power is necessary for the orderly administration of the Court's business, 65. The Court further observed that fraud could be proved as a fact by direct evidence or by inference drawn from proved facts. The following passage from the decision in. SATISH CHANDRA CHATTERJI v. KUMAR SATISH KANTHA ROY, AIR 1923 PC 73, was quoted with approval: 66. In VASANTKUMAR RADHAKISAN VORA v. BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE PORT OF BOMBAY ,, the apex Court held that person not belonging to SC/ST/BC claims benefits under Articles 15(4) of the Constitution of India in educational institutions or public employment, it would amount to playing fraud on the Constitution. It was observed that reservations for SCs/STs/BCs are not by virtue of any statute, but by virtue of the Constitution, and therefore, every policy of reservation flows from the constitutional scheme. It is opposite to excerpt the following: 67. In GURUSAMY'S case (supra), a contention was raised that when a person was given right to enjoy the status of ST, the principle of estoppel applies to him. This was repelled by the Supreme Court as under: 68. In UNION OF INDIA v. M. BHASKARAN, 1955 Supp. (4) SCC 100, the respondents produced bogus and forged 'casual labour service cards' and obtained employment in railway service. The Supreme Court observed that they were guilty of misrepresentation and fraud perpetrated on the employer while getting employment in railway service, and that once fraud was detected, it was open for the employer to remove those who obtained employment by playing fraud. It is necessary to excerpt the following: 69. In DIST. COLLECTOR & CHAIRMAN, VIZIANAGARAM v. M. TRIPURA SUNDARIDEVIS, , persons who were not having qualifications as per the employment notification/advertisement were appointed ignoring the claims of those who were qualified. A contention was raised that the appointing authority can disregard the qualifications in the advertisement and make appointment. While rejecting the same, the Supreme Court observed that appointing of an unqualified person amounts to fraud on public, and the Court should not be a party to the perpetuation of fraudulent practice. It was observed: 70. We may also briefly indicate the meaning of the expression 'fraud on public authorities'. We may refer in this context to a judgment in PALANIAPPA CHETTIAR v. ARUNASALAM CHETTIAR, 1962 AC 294, wherein Privy Council considered the effect of 'deceit and fraud' on public administration on the claims made by a person. In the said case the facts are these: Malaya Rubber Regulations, 1934 provided that holdings of rubber growing land of more than Acs. 100-00 be assessed by an Assessment Committee whereas the holding of less than Acs. 100-00 be assessed by local District Officer. Arunasalam Chettiar, who owned Acs. 139-00 or rubber growing land, transferred Acs. 40-00 of land to his son. Palaniappa Chettiar for a purported consideration, which was not in fact paid. This was done to get over the Rubber Regulations and to be assessed by local District Officers. The transfer was duly registered and certificate of title was issued to son. Thereafter, father, having agreed to sell Acs. 40-00 to a third party, asked his son to execute a Power of Attorney so as to enable him to transfer the land to the prospective purchaser. The son refused to

do so and the father brought an action before the High Court of the Federation for a declaration that the son is holding Acs. 40-00 rubber land in trust for him. The learned trial Judge upheld the claim of the father and held that son was holding the land on trust for his father. The Court of Appeal of the Federation dismissed son's appeal. Before the Privy Council it was contended that the father had practiced a deceit on public administration in order to avoid the procedure for assessment as laid down by the Legislation and therefore he is not entitled for declaration because the father resorted to colourable device by which he gave right, title and interest in the property to avoid statutory obligation under the Rubber Regulations. The Privy Council accepted this and Lord Denning speaking for unanimous Judicial Committee held: 71. While we notice the principles of fraud, it is necessary to refer to Section 44 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, which reads: 72. On many occasions, a question arose as to whether a decree obtained by fraud can be challenged in collateral proceedings. Section 44 of Evidence Act makes it clear that either of the parties to a suit or proceedings can establish that any judgment or decree which is relevant for deciding any issue in the suit under Sections 40 , 41 or 42 of the Evidence Act , and which stands proved by the adverse party, is nullity being one by a Court not competent, to deliver the judgment and/or judgment was obtained by fraud or collusion. 73. In ASHARFI LAL v. KOILI , , the Supreme Court considered the scope of Section 44 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 and laid down the principles as under: 74. We may now summarize the principles of law in relation to fraud and misrepresentation. 1. In judicial proceedings, fraud renders a judgment of a Court a nullity and void. Either superior or inferior Court is bound to treat a judgment obtained by playing fraud on the Court a nullity. 2. In proceedings other than judicial, an order obtained by fraud and misrepresentation and/or a determination as a result of fraud cannot be allowed to stand. Fraud unravels everything, and no person can keep an advantage or benefit or privilege obtained by playing fraud. 3. In the field of private law, mere misrepresentation without proof of deceit or intention to deceit cannot vitiate the contract or render the contract void; it is only voidable. In the field of public law, however, fraud on public authorities is a special species of fraud, which without anything further must deny the person the benefit obtained by fraud. Whether intention or no intention, whether mala fide or bona fide, public law does not permit a person to retain the advantage obtained by fraud. 4. The concept of fraud on the statute and fraud on the constitution has similarities more than one. Any action, which subverts the objects and purposes of the Constitution, amounts to fraud on the Constitution. 5. A person who does not belong to SC/ ST/BC secures appointment to an office or post under the State or public employment by producing fake certificate must be held guilty of playing fraud on the Constitution, and such person shall not be entitled to plead doctrine of promissory estoppel or equitable estoppel. 6. The principle of "finality of litigation" cannot be pressed when fraud is alleged to be the basis for the decision/ determination. 7. Fraud, can be challenged in any Court even in collateral proceedings. The principle of estoppel and doctrine of res judicata have no application when fraud is the basis of judgment sought to be nullified under which right or privilege is claimed. 8. Fraud can either be proved by established facts or inference can be drawn from admitted and/or undisputed facts. When fraud is inferred under Section 44 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, the Court as well as the authority alleging fraud can ignore a decision obtained by fraud. 75. We have to keep the above principles in mind when we examine the issue relating to fraud. Acts and conduct of first respondent: 76. The first respondent was appointed as District Judge in a vacancy reserved for ST, and such reservation was with reference to the Constitution (Scheduled Tribe) Order, 1950 which itself forms part of the Constitution, and since fraud alleged is with reference to Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order, 1950, not only deceptive assertions and false representations, but also admitted facts, incidents and circumstances become decisive to infer fraud in a case of this nature. 77. The learned counsel for the petitioner has placed reliance on various registered documents to which the ancestors as well as the father of first respondent were parties. Reliance has also been placed on

the attested copies of 'school admission registers' showing the relevant entries in relation to first respondent, his two brothers and sister. The two community certificates issued by the Tahsildar, Salur and JFCM, Salur, in the year 1979 as well as the averments of first respondent in the plaint in OS No. 8 of 1985 are also before us. The deposition on oath of first respondent as PW 1 in the suit is also placed before us. In the said deposition, first respondent admitted that he and his family originally - belonged to Orissa State, that his great grandfather late Jagan Mohan Bhanj Samanth Thatraj came as illattom son-in law (See Ramnath

Iyer's LAW LEXICON (1997 Edn.) Page 869: In Andhra Area, illatom son-in-law is a boy brought into family with a view to give a daughter in marriage and is customarily recognized as an heir in the absence of natural born son.) of Zamindar of Salur, and that he is claiming to belong to Konda Dhora community only by virtue of his relationship with Zamindar of Salur and that from 9th class to University level his caste was not mentioned in the school registers. So as to avoid elaborate discussion of the documents, we have tabulated various details, from the documents from 1903 to 1988. THE STATEMENT SHOWING THE
 CASTE/COMMUNITY DESCRIBED BY HIS ANCESTORS & FIRST RESPONDENT IN VARIOUS
 DOCUMENTS
 
 
 
 
 
 S.No.
 
 
 Year/Date
 
 
 Description
 of the document
 
 
 Vendee/Vendor
 Lessee/lessor
 
 
 Relationship
 with R-1
 
 
 Community
 Described/claimed
 
 
 Remarks 1. 1903 Reg. Broja
 Sunder Bhanj DeoS/o. Late Jagannatha Bhanj Samthu Thataraju
 
 
 Grandfather
 
 
 Kshatriya 2. 1933 Reg. Broja
 Sunder Bhanj Deo S/o Late Jagannatha Bhanj Samthu Thataraju
 
 
 Grandfather
 
 
 Kshatriya 3. 1943 Reg. Suryamani
 Jana Devamma W/o Broja Sunder Bhanj Deo
 
 
 Grandmother
 
 
 Kshatriya 4. 1950 Reg. A.N.
 P. Bhanjdeo S/o Broja Sunder Bhanj Deo
 
 
 Father
 
 
 Kshatriya 5. 1958 Reg. A.N.P.
 Bhanjdeo S/o Broja Sunder Bhanj Deo
 
 
 Father
 
 
 Kshatriya
 
 
 
 
 A
 
 
 29-6-1960
 
 
 Admn. Register Govt. Jr. College, Salur
 
 
 A.P.
 Bhanjdeo S/o A.N.P. Bhanjdeo
 
 
 Self
 
 
 Oriya
 Kshatriya
 
 

 As
 per true copy of Admn. Register given on 20-7-86 oy Principal Government
 College (earlier school) 7.
 
 
 28-6-1961
 
 
 Admn. Register M.U.P. School. Salur
 
 
 Rajendra
 Pratap Bhanj Deo S/o. A.N.P. Bhanjdeo
 
 
 Brother
 
 
 Oriya
 Kshatriya
 
 

 As
 per true extract of Admn. Register given by Head Master of MUP School on
 5-3-1999. Pedakomatipeta 8.
 
 
 28-6-1961
 
 
 Admn. Register M.U.P. School, Salur
 
 
 Geeta
 Sri Jamma Bhanj Deo D/o A.N.P. Bhanjdeo
 
 
 Sister
 
 
 Oriya
 Kshatriya -do- 9. 
 
 
 13-7-1961
 
 
 Admn. Register M.U.P.
 School, Salur
 
 
 Jetendra Pratap Bhanj
 Deo S/o A.N.P. Bhanjdeo
 
 
 Brother
 
 
 Oriya Kshatriay -do- 10. 
 
 
 9-7-1979
 
 
 Caste Certificate by
 Tahsildar, Salur
 
 
 A.P. Bhanjdeo S/o A.N.P.
 Bhanjdeo
 
 
 Self
 
 
 Konda Dhora
 
 

 The certificate was
 issued as per the information furnished by first respondent 11. 
 
 
 9-11-1979
 
 
 Caste Certificate
 J.M.F.C., Salur
 
 
 A.P. Bhanjdeo S/o A.N.P.
 Bhanjdeo
 
 
 Self
 
 
 Konda Dhora
 
 
 On what basis this
 certificate was issued is not clear. 12. 
 
 
 6-4-1982
 
 
 Plaint in OS 35/82 on
 the file of Dist. Munsif, Salur
 
 
 A.P. Bhanjdeo S/o A.N.P.
 Bhanjdno
 
 
 Self
 
 
 Konda Raju (i) Later suit was
 transformed to Court of Subordinate Judge, Parvathipuram. First respondent
 claimed that Konda Raju is equivalent to konda Ohota
 

A) The plaint
 allegations are summarised in the judgment of Subordinate Court,
 Parvathipuram 78. The table shows that in all the registered documents, the grandfather and father of first respondent were described as KSHATRIYA'. In I960, in Zilla Parishad School, Salur, (in 6th class), in the admission 'register, first respondent was described as ORIYA KSHATRIYA. In the two certificates, dated 9-7-1979 and 7-11-1979, issued by the Tahsildar and JMFC, Salur respectively for the first time, the petitioner was certified to belong to 'Konda Dhora'. 79. It is well settled that in the matter of date of birth of a person, and such other things, the entries in the school registers, and other documents are relevant. It is also appropriate to take judicial notice that in pre-independent India, and indeed even now in rural India, it is customary to describe a person with caste, father's name and sometimes by the name of the village in which he resides. The various documents to which a reference is made in the table, are relevant for deciding the status as to community/caste/tribe of a person. In

KUMARI MADHURI PATIL'S case (supra), the Supreme Court emphasized the importance of entries in school registers as under: 80. Be that as it may, when the petitioner applied for the post of District Munsif, the certificate issued and relied on by first respondent dated 9-7-1979 issued by the Tahsildar was doubled. After conducting enquiry, the District Collector reported to the Government, and the Government in Memo No. 3249/F-280-11, dated 9-12-1980 held that first respondent cannot be treated as ST. Based on the same, the APPSC informed that first respondent has not come up for selection and that he cannot be considered in the vacancy reserved for STs. At that stage, the fact that first respondent does not belong to Konda Dhora became final by reason of decision of Government as well as the Service Commission. 81. Be it noted that even according to first respondent from 9th class to University level, his caste was not recorded anywhere in the school records, and for the first time the Tahsildar, Salur issued certificate dated 9-7-1979, which was doubted by the Government as well as the APPSC. At that stage, first respondent who admittedly had earlier appeared before the Joint Collector, Vizianagaram, pursuant to show cause notice dated 22-6-1980 claimed that he belonged to Konda Dhora, filed suit so as to sustain the community certificate dated 9-7-1979. In the plaint, he did not claim himself to be Konda Dhora. He specifically alleged that he belongs to Konda Raja community, and that the said community is equivalent to Konda Dhora community. He also claimed relationship with Zamindar of Salur. Even according to first respondent's sworn deposition before the Civil Court, the Zamindar of Salur was himself found not belonging to Konda Dhora community. 82. Before the Civil court, the entire case of first respondent was that he migrated from Orissa State, that he belongs to Konda Raju community, and that the said Konda Raju is none other than Konda Dhora community. The Civil Court has no jurisdiction to declare Konda Raju as Konda Dhora, but a decree was passed. We have already dealt with this aspect of the matter earlier, and therefore, it is not necessary to consider the same again. In this part of the judgment we are concerned with the acts and conduct of first respondent as well as the incidents to know whether misrepresentation amounting to was made. 83. It is reasonable to infer that first respondent knew all along that his grandfather and his father belong of KSHATRIYA. [See observations of Supreme Court in para 10 in KUMARI MADHURI PATIL'S case (supra)] But still by placing some undisclosed material before the Tahsildar, Salur and JMFC, Salur, he obtained Konda Dhora ST certificate. After conducting enquiry into the issue of certificate, when the Government as well as the APPSC were informed that first respondent cannot be treated as ST, he filed suit claiming himself to belong to Konda Raju. Though the two community certificates obtained by him in 1979 are marked as Exs. A1 and A2 in the suit, they lost their probative value as first respondent claimed himself to belong to Konda Raju. Further, various registered documents in the name of the ancestors were not placed before the Civil Court. Having approached

the Civil Court for declaration that he belonged to Konda Dhora,' it was his duly to place all the material before the Civil Court. [See CHENGALVARAYA NAIDU'S case (supra)]. Though in the school admission register, he was described as belonging to ORIYA KSHATRIYA, he deposed that his caste was not mentioned in the school register the said that he cannot say whether caste was recorded or not). We have perused the record placed before us by the learned Standing Counsel for the High Court, including the application of the first respondent for the post of District Judge. His SSLC certificate mentions that he belongs to 'Hindu' religion and does not mention that he belongs to ST. Before the Civil Court, Ex.A. 17, in Hindi, purported to be SSLC certificate was produced; whereas when he applied for the post of District Judge, he produced HSSLC certificate showing him as Hindu. We fail to understand when he admittedly studied 6th to University level in Andhra Pradesh (see deposition) why he produced SSLC certificate, Ex.A. 17, which is in Hindi. Be that as it may, the HSSLC certificate produced before the High Court at the time of making application for the post of District Judge was withheld from the Civil Court. It was done so presumably because "STs are not considered as Hindus". (See Section 2 of Hindu Marriage Act, 1955, Section 2 of Hindu Adoption and Maintenance Act, 1956, Section 2 of Hindu Succession Act, 1956, and Section 3 of Hindu Minority and Guardianship Act, 1956). 84. The family of first respondent till the coming into force of the Constitution of India and till 1979 never claimed any status as belonging to ST. Indeed, the attested copy of the school register shows that two brothers and one sister of first respondent were described as ORIYA KSHATRIYA. For the first time first respondent in 1979 obtained Konda Dhora ST certificate. These are clear pointers to show that first respondent did not belong to Konda

Dhora, and fraud and misrepresentation played primary role in the issue of Social Status Certificate and passing of decree. 85. At this stage, we may also point out the stand of first respondent in these proceedings before this Court. In the counter, filed by first respondent in these proceedings, presumably to get over various documents placed before us by the petitioner, first respondent avers that there is no single registered document existing in his name or in the name of his children noting KSHATRIYA in the registered documents. He also states that there is no caste as Konda Raju in existence and that some Konda Dhoras call themselves as Konda Rajus or KSHATRIYAS due to their elevated position. These averments on oath are quite contrary to the solemnly verified averments made in the plaint as extracted by the learned trial Judge in the judgment in OS No. 8 of 1985. In para 14 of the counter-affidavit, he even denies the allegation that he obtained decree to the effect that he should be treated as Konda Dhora. This is contrary to record and cannot be countenanced, nor can be appreciated by this Court! 86. A person whose grandfather and father belong to KSHATRIYA and/or ORIYA KSHATRIYA claim to belong to Konda Dhora and when his claim was rejected by the Government as well as the APPSC, he called himself Konda Raju and obtained a decree that he belongs to Konda Dhora. These facts speak for themselves and without any further proof, they must be held as amounting to fraud and misrepresentation. Needless to say that these acts of fraud were motivated only to get the benefits under Article 16(4) of the Constitution of India, which are available to STs as notified by Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order, 1950. 87. The question as to whether this Court in exercise of its jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India has

the power to correct an error caused by fraud is no more res integra. The Supreme Court in UNITED INDIA INSURANCE CO. v. RAJENDRA SINGH , , decided this question. In the said case, a father and son claimed compensation before the Motor Accidents claims Tribunal alleging that in an accident caused by an Ambassador car, insured with United India Insurance Company, they suffered injuries. Finding the driver guilty of negligent driving, the Tribunal awarded a sum of Rs. 3,55,000/-to father and a sum of Rs. 1,52,000/- to the son with interest at the rate of 12% per annum. The awards became final, and the owner of the car and/or Insurance Company did not file appeal. Four months after the award, the Insurance Company was informed by an informant that father and son, the claimants in the earlier proceedings before the Motor Accidents Claims Tribunal suffered injuries while operating their tractor, and to that effect they gave statement before the police. Immediately, the Insurance Company made enquiries and moved the Tribunal under Sections 151 , 152 and 153 CPC praying to recall the awards passed by the Tribunal. The petition was dismissed by the Tribunal holding that the Tribunal has no power to recall the awards. The Insurance Company then moved the Allahabad High Court for quashing the awards. A learned single Judge dismissed the writ petition holding that there is no power of review in the Motor Vehicles Act , and that writ jurisdiction is not attracted. The Insurance Company moved the Supreme Court. While allowing the appeals of the Insurance Company, after referring to the cases in LAZARUS ESTATES, CHENGALRAYA NAIDU and SATYAM FIBRES (supra), the Supreme Court addressed a question as to what is the legal remedy when a party to a judgment or order of the Court, which later is discovered to have been obtained by fraud? The Supreme Court held that in a given case where fraud is alleged, the High Court can correct the errors caused by fraud

even in exercise of power under Article 226 of the Constitution. It is useful to extract the following: 88. We have repeatedly asked the learned Senior Counsel Sri. E. Manohar whether the acts and conduct of first respondent on the admitted facts do not amount to fraud. The answer is that even the averments in the plaint are correct the same do not amount to fraud as great

grandfather of first respondent belong to Konda Dhora. We are afraid, we cannot agree with the learned Senior Counsel. Even in his deposition before the Civil Court, first respondent did not claim that his great grandfather Jagan Mohan Bhanj Deo belonged to Konda Dhora. It is also admitted that there is no community called Konda Dhora in Orissa State from where first respondent's family migrated to Salur 100 years ago. First respondent made attempts to get public employment as District Munsif in 1979-80 by producing certificate from Tahsildar, Salur, and when the same was enquired into, and found to be not valid, first respondent again made attempts by approaching the Civil Court and got decree, which is nullity. Therefore, on the admitted facts, we must hold that first respondent resorted to fraud and misrepresentation in procuring public employment as District Judge by fraudulently claiming Constitutional reservation claiming as ST as belonging to Konda Dhora, a Scheduled Tribe. 3(ii) Judgment of the Division Bench in W. P. No. 30827 of 1998: 89. The learned Senior Counsel for first respondent has invited our attention to the judgment of the Division Bench of this Court in W.P. No. 30827 of 1998, dated 16-6-2000 in AMBATI VINCENT v. BHANJ DEO, (hereinafter referred to as VINCENT case), to submit that the judgment of the Civil Court declaring that first respondent belongs to Konda Dhora community was accepted as valid, and that this Court in VINCENT case did not accept the allegation of fraud. The teamed Senior Counsel for the petitioner refuted this contention. According to him, the writ petition was filed for writ of quo warranto, and therefore, the Court was not concerned with the acts and conduct of first respondent in procuring a community certificate from the Tahsildar, and was also not concerned with the question of fraud. In any event, the

learned counsel submits that the judgment of the Division Bench in VINCENT case was rendered sub silentio and that it is per incurium being contrary to large number of decisions of the Supreme Court on the point that a Civil Court is not competent to declare a particular community as ST. 90. Ambati Vincent, a member belonging to ST, filed the aforementioned writ petition seeking a writ in the nature of writ of quo warranto against first respondent as he procured appointment staling that he is a ST. The Division Bench of this Court noticed that no argument was addressed in Second Appeal on the question framed. After referring to BASAVALINGAPPA, BHAIYA LAL, MADHURI PATIL, and NITYANAND SHARMA, the Division Bench, however, did not decide the question whether or not the Civil Court decree is nullity. The main question adverted to was whether in the facts and circumstances of that case a writ of quo warranto could be issued. It was held that appointment of first respondent was made in accordance with the constitutional requirement envisaged by Article 233 , writ of quo warranto would not lie. It was observed: 91. We are unable to, with great respect, agree with two observations made hereinabove. The first observation that the certificate was not cancelled may not be correct. The Civil Court in the judgment dated 26-4-1985 referred to a Memo issued by the Government of Andhra Pradesh in Social Welfare Department being Lr. No. 3249/F-28-11, dated 9-12-1980, which was extracted in the written statement filed by the APPSC (see para 3 of the judgment of the learned Subordinate Judge, Parvathipuram). The said letter as extracted in the judgment reads: 92. Basing on the above letter, the APPSC issued Memo dated 21-1-1981 informing first respondent that he cannot be

treated as ST. In our opinion, the certificate issued by Tahsildar, Salur on 9-7-1979 stood cancelled, which was the basis for the JMFC, Salur to issue a community certificate dated 9-11-1979. 93. Further, as mentioned earlier, by reason of Rule Nisi, the learned Standing Counsel for High Court has placed before us the entire record, including his application for the post, relating to the appointment of first respondent. On perusing the record, we find that first respondent did not produce the certificate issued by Tahsildar, Salur, dated 9-7-1979 or the certificate dated 9-11-1979 issued by the JMFC, Salur. The assertion made by first respondent in para 7(a) of his counter-affidavit that he appended the certificate issued by the Tahsildar, Salur dated 9-7-1979 is an incorrect statement. When he applied for the post of District Judge Grade-II, he produced a copy of Higher Secondary and Multipurpose School leaving Certificate and also ST certificate dated 22-3-1980 purportedly issued by JMFC, Salur. First respondent did not state anything in the application about the pendency of the appeal against the decree in the suit. Be that as it may, as found from the file, the ST certificate produced along with the application form for the post was issued by JMFC and the same does not disclose any basis for the same. All the same, the appointment of first respondent was not based on the certificate dated 9-7-1979 issued by the Tahsildar, Salur. 94. The appointment was not made on the basis of the certificate, issued by the MRO, which was cancelled by the Government; but it was made on the basis of the Civil Court decree. Indeed, in GO Ms. No. 3, GAD, dated 5-1-1987, while appointing first respondent, it was made clear that the appointment is subject to result of second appeal filed by the Government in the High Court of A. P. against the decree in OS No. 8 of 1985 relating to his status as

ST. After second appeal was dismissed on 12-9-1988, first respondent himself addressed a letter on 29-7-1988 to the Chief Secretary of the Government of A. P. through the Registrar (Admn.) of the High Court of A.P. informing that the second appeal was dismissed on 12-9-1988, and requesting Government to make necessary entries in the relevant records as his appointment as District Judge, Grade-11 was made subject to the result of the second appeal. First respondent did not even refer to certificate issued by Tahsildar, Salur, and indeed, if appointment was made based on certificate issued by Tahsildar, there was no necessity for the Government to make provisional appointment in GO. Ms. No. 3, nor was it necessary for first respondent to address a letter to the Government to regularize his appointment. Therefore, there cannot be any doubt that the first respondent abandoned his claim based on the certificate issued by MRO, Salur, and appointment of first respondent was not based on the community certificate issued by the Tahsildar, Salur and JMFC, Salur. But it was based on the decree in OS No. 8 of 1985. First respondent himself never claimed appointment in ST vacancy placing reliance on the certificate issued by the Tahsildar, Salur, and his claim was made only on the Court decree, as admitted by him in the letter dated 27-9-1988 addressed to the Chief Secretary to the Government of A.P. 95. Further more, the holding of this Court in VINCENT case that Civil Court did not lack initial or inherent jurisdiction was rendered per incurium. While considering point No. 2, we have referred to various precedents on the point, and hence, in the light of those authorities, the observations made by the Division Bench are per incurium. In support of this, we may refer to two authorities. 96. In STATE OF U.P. v. SYNTHETICS AND CHEMICALS LTD , , the Supreme Court

explained the doctrines of per incurium and sub silentio. The question before the apex Court was whether the seven-judge Bench judgment in SYNTHETIC AND CHEMICALS LTD v. STATE OF U.P. , , was concerned with the legislative competence of the State Legislature to levy taxes on sale or purchase of goods with reference to Entry 54 of List II of VII Schedule to the Constitution of India. The Allahabad High Court placing reliance on the seven-judge Bench decision in SYNTHETIC AND CHEMICALS LTD (supra) struck down the levy of tax on sales of alcohol. A two judge-bench held that the conclusion of law by the Constitution Bench that no sales or purchase tax could be levied on industrial alcohol was per incurium, and not a binding precedent. The Supreme Court also held that the conclusion of the Constitution Bench was a precedent sub silentio and without argument, and therefore, it cannot be characterized as a binding precedent. It was also held that the principles of res judicata are not applicable. Sahai, J, who wrote a separate concurrent opinion observed: 97. While observing that a Court is not bound by earlier decision when it is rendered without any argument, without any reference to crucial words of the rule, and without any citation of authority, it was opined: 98. In a recent judgment in ARNITH DAS v. STATE OF BIHAR , , a two-judge Bench of the apex Court while referring to SYNTHETICS case (supra) held: 99. In view of the above authorities, with great respect we hold that the observations of the Division Bench in VINCENT case to the effect that Civil Court did not lack initial or inherent jurisdiction in granting decree of declaration is per incurium, and is not correct law. The Division Bench was mainly concerned with the factum as to whether first respondent placed material before the appointing authority (Government of A. P.). Having regard to the fact that it was brought to the notice of the Court an appeal is pending against the judgment and decree in Civil suit, which was even mentioned in the provisional appointment order in GO. Ms. No. 3 that first respondent's appointment is subject to result of Second appeal, the Division Bench came to the conclusion that as the material facts were disclosed, fraud cannot be inferred. In view of this, we can agree with the submission that VINCENT case has attained finality. 100. In these proceedings, the situation is altogether, different. We have already shown in tabular form that community of first respondent and his ancestors went on changing from 1903 till 1976. Till 1979, first respondent never claimed any reservation as ST. It may be a coincidence, but the fact remains that for the first time in the appointments of District Judges, reservation was provided in the relevant special rules only in 1976. We cannot lose sight of this when we consider the acts, omissions and conduct of first respondent. The SLP being SLP (C) No. 14473 of 2000, filed against the judgment of this Court in VINCENT case was dismissed on

27-9-2000. What is its effect on these proceedings? 101. In STATE OF MANIPUR v. THINGUJAM BROJEN MEETEI , , the apex Court considered the effect of dismissal of SLP in limini and held: 102. In a recent judgment in KUNHAYAMMED v. STATE OF

KERALA , , a three-Judge Bench of the Supreme Court elaborately considered the legal implications and the impact of an order rejecting the SLP under Article 136 of the Constitution of India, and laid down the law as under: 103. The apex Court also reiterated that when SLP is dismissed, the same does not amount to confirmation by the Supreme Court against the order in which leave was sought for. 104. The submission that principles of res judicata apply is without any substance. When the decree of Civil Court is nullity and when the acts and conduct of first respondent amount to fraud on the Constitution, it is futile to contend that by reason of principles of res judicata and estoppel, the petitioner should be non-suited. 105. In this context, we may also refer to the decision of the Supreme Court in A.R. ANTULAY'S case. In the said case, by a judgment dated 16-2-1994 in R.S. NAYAK v. A.R. ANTULAY , , a constitution Bench of the Supreme Court withdrew special cases against Antulay and transferred the same to Bombay High Court with a request to the learned Chief Justice to assign the cases to a silting Judge of the High Court for holding trial on day to day basis. This was challenged before a seven-Judge Bench in A.R. ANTULAY'S case (supra). One of the submissions was that a wrong decision or direction by the Court inter parties cannot be challenged subsequently. This argument was repelled by the Supreme Court - both the on the principle of jurisdiction as well as per incurium. It was held: 106. Sri. E. Manohar, learned Senior Counsel for first respondent vehemently contended that as long as the community certificate dated 9-7-1979 is not cancelled, mandamus as prayed for cannot be issued. Indeed, in the counter-affidavit filed by first respondent he stated as follows: 107. The above averment, however, establishes fraud played by first respondent. When certificate issued by Tahsildar, Salur in 1979 was genuine, and the same was not cancelled, we really are not able to understand as to why first respondent again approached the Civil Court by filing suit in which he claimed to belong to Konda Raju community, and which according to him is synonymous to Konda Dhora community. As already seen, the Government issued Memo dated 9-12-1980 declaring that first respondent cannot be treated as ST. The said order of the Government was not challenged, and therefore, the submission of the learned Senior Counsel cannot be countenanced. As already noticed, first respondent did not enclose certificate dated 9-7-1979 issued by Tahsildar, when he applied for the post of District Judge. 3(iii) Whether High Court should leave the matter to the authorities to take action under Act 16 of 1993 108. At the outset we may refer to the provisions of the Act and Rules. Till recently,

the procedure for issue of Community Certificates to SCs, STs and BCs was governed by various executive instructions, issued by the Government from time to time. The Government realised that in large number of cases, candidates for employment in government departments and in public sector undertakings produced false caste certificate and secured appointments against vacancies reserved for SCs and STs. From time to time, the competent authority for issuance of community certificates to SCs, STs or BCs or to allot them was changed. The procedure become unwieldy as the practice of producing fake and false certificates by Unscrupulous candidates became rampant totally denying the benefits to genuine SC and ST candidates. Therefore, the Government came forward with a legislation, and enacted Act 16 of 1993. 109. The Act regulates issue of Community Certificates to persons belonging to SCs., STs., and BCs. In exercise of the power under Sub-section (1) of Section 20 of the Act, the Governor had made Rules in G.O. Ms. No. 58, Social Welfare, dated 12-8-1997 known as A.P. Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Backward Classes -Issue of Community, Nativity and Date of Birth Certificates Rules, 1997. The competent authority shall issue community certificate on receipt of applications. Section 4 of the Act provides for issue of certificates by the competent authority. Rule 5 of the Rules provides for elaborate enquiry/ verification before an integrated community certificate is issued under Section 4 of the Act. When any authority has a reason to believe either suo motu or on a written complaint that any community certificate was obtained fraudulently, it is only the District Collector who can initiate enquiry under the Act. Such enquiry shall be conducted in accordance with Rules 8 and 9 of the Rules. Section 21 of the Act provides that unless a community certificate is cancelled in accordance with the provisions

of the Act, the community certificate issued by any authority shall be valid and the same shall be deemed to have been issued under the provisions of the Act. 110. Rule 19 of the Rules is to the effect that if there is likely to be delay in finalizing the enquiry either for issue of integrated community certificate or for cancellation of such certificate duly following the procedure contemplated under Section 5 read with Rules 8 and 9, the competent authority may inform the Principal or the educational institution to admit the candidate (in the case of educational institutions) on the basis of the declaration given by the candidate and that such admission shall be provisional for a period of three months from the date of communication from the competent authority. There is no such rule, which enables the person to continue in employment when it is discovered that he got employment by using a fraudulent ST certificate. 111. As already noticed, first respondent opposes the writ petition on the grounds that ST Community Certificate issued by the Tahsildar, Salur, has not been cancelled, that the decree passed by the Civil Court is not nullity, that in view of the judgment of the Division Bench of this Court, the issue cannot be reopened, and that in view of statutory alternative remedy available under Act 16 of 1993, the writ petition must be dismissed. 112. We have already examined the issues in relation to all the defences, except the last one. The examination of the question of alternative remedy in this case is not a simple one for the reasons to be noticed hereinafter. First respondent is holding high judicial office of District Judge Grade-I in A. P. State Higher Judicial Service. Is it possible for the authorities under the Act to conduct an impartial enquiry when first respondent holds an high office of District

Judge Grade-I? There is a Civil Court decree as well as the judgment of the Division Bench of this Court which may not enable the authorities under the Act like the District Collector, Joint Collector and other members of the Scrutiny Committee to consider the various documents, which we have considered hereinabove and arrived at a finding that first respondent obtained employment claiming to be ST by playing fraud. Having regard to the nature of judicial office, first respondent is holding, can this Court ignore the allegations of fraud and misrepresentation made against him in obtaining appointment as District Judge? It is well settled that having regard to Articles 233 , 234 and 235 of the Constitution of India, under which "the control" of District and Subordinate Judiciary absolutely vests in the High Court. In the background of this constitutional position, can this Court ignore the constitutional provisions and allow the revenue authorities to conduct enquiry into the allegations made against first respondent. These are the factors, which have a bearing upon the issue. 113. We have analyzed the provisions of the Act and the Rules to show that the District Collector may either suo motu or on written complaint by any person after enquiry cancel a community certificate obtained fraudulently before or after commencement of this Act. Any order passed by the Collector is appealable under Section 7(1) of the Act. Pursuant to a show cause notice, if a person who obtained fraudulent community certificate discharges his initial burden cast on him under Section 6 of the Act, the District Collector under Section 9 has to refer the matter to Scrutiny Committee, which at District Level consists of five members with Joint Collector as Chairman. The Scrutiny/Review Committee at the State Level consists of six members with Principal Secretary to Government in Social Welfare Department as Chairman. The State Level Committee monitors the functioning of the

District Level Committee and also renders necessary advice to the Government on various policy decisions to be taken for streamlining the procedure in relation to issuing of community certificate. Be that as it may, under Rule 9, the District Collector is required to refer any case of fraudulent community certificate to the Chairman of District Level Scrutiny Committee if the person discharges initial burden. If the person fails to produce any material to the satisfaction of the District Collector, the Collector without referring to Scrutiny Committee can even cancel the community certificate obtained fraudulently before or after coming into force of the Act after considering the explanation to the show cause notice issued. A reading of Section 5 with Rules 8 and 9 makes this very clear. 114. In a case of this nature, in our considered opinion, it is not necessary to refer the matter or relegate the petitioner to alternative remedy available under the Act. Indeed, we may notice that in the field of Public Law, the scope of mandamus is wide, and the Court can use it freely to prevent injustice or breach of duty (See Administrative Law by HWR Wade and C.F. Forsyth, 8th Edition). The availability of effective alternative remedy is not always a bar for exercise of jurisdiction to issue a mandamus. As observed by Prof. H.W.R. Wade "the Courts have grown accustomed to awarding mandamus more freely, even where some other remedy exists". 115. In WHIRLPOOL CORPORATION v. REGISTRAR OF TRADE MARKS, MUMBAI , , the apex Court held: 116. The apex Court after referring to its earlier judgments rendered during the evolutionary era of the Constitutional Law starting from RASHID AHMAD v. MUNICIPAL BOARD , KAIRANA, , K.S. RASHID & SON v. THE INCOME TAX INVESTIGATION COMMISSIONER , , STATE OF U.P. v. MOH. NOOH, AIR 1958 SC 86, A.V. VENKATESWARAN, COLLECTOR OF CUSTOMS, BOMBAY v. RAMCHAND SOBHRAJ WADHWANI , AIR 1961 SC 3506 and CALCUTTA DISCOUNT CO. LTD. v. INCOME-TAX OFFICER, COMPANIES DISTTI. , , held: 117. A submission was made that first respondent was appointed as District Judge

more than a decade and a half ago, and therefore, the writ petition, filed by the petitioner to set aside the appointment of first respondent is not maintainable. For reasons more than one we cannot agree with this contention. Firstly, the allegations of fraud and misrepresentation have been made against first respondent, to which we have already adverted. In such an event, a decision, which is obtained by fraud, and an appointment, which is obtained by fraud, cannot be allowed to be enjoyed. In Re P. SHYAM RAO, 1984 (2) ALT 386, a learned Judge of this Court (PA. Choudhary, J) observed: 118. In KAZI LHENDUP DORJI v. CENTRAL BUREAU OF
INVESTIGATION, 1994 Supp. (2) SCC
116, a writ petition under Article 32 of the
Constitution of India as Public Interest
Litigation by a former Chief Minister of
Sikkim to quash a notification issued by the
Government of Sikkim withdrawing the
consent of the Government issued to CBI
under Section 5 , was challenged. It was
inter alia opposed on the ground that the
writ petition is barred by. delay, in that the
notification was issued in 1987 and the writ
petition was filed in 1993. This submission
was rejected by the Supreme Court holding: 119. In BHASKARAN'S case (supra), the respondents who obtained employment in Indian Railways by fraud contended that as they were continuing in service for a considerable time, their appointments may not be disturbed. The Supreme Court did not agree with the submission, and held: 120. We may also refer to judgment of the Supreme Court in TRIPURA SUNDARI'S case (supra), wherein the apex Court held that no Court should be a party to the perpetuation of fraudulent practice. We must, therefore, hold that when fraud and misrepresentation are alleged, delay and laches in filing the writ petition are not

a bar for this Court to entertain a writ petition. 121. As already observed, this matter has been placed before this Full Bench for obvious reasons - that the second appeal filed by the State against the judgment of the District Judge, confirming the judgment of the District Munsif, was dismissed, and that the writ petition filed by Ambat Vincent against the first respondent was also dismissed. Further, we have already admitted the writ petition and heard it finally, and in such a case, the first respondent cannot be permitted to raise the ground of alternative remedy. In HIRDAY NARAIN v. I.T. OFFICER, BAREILLY , , the Supreme Court laid down that: 122. Therefore, the availability of alternative remedy under Act 16 of 1993 does not debar the remedy under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. Further, as already observed by us, there is decree of Civil Court as well as judgment of the Division Bench of this Court, We fail to understand as to how the remedy available under the Act could be effective in the

background of the allegations of fraud and misrepresentation as well as the judgment of the Civil Court and the judgment of the Division Bench of this Court. Therefore, we arc convinced that any order relegating the petitioner to avail remedies under Section 5 of the Act would occasion failure of justice, and it would be improper for us to do so. We have yet another reason to reject the contention of Sri. E. Manohar, the learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the first respondent that there is effective alternative remedy. 123. Any allegation that a District Judge resorted to fraud in getting employment amounts to serious misconduct. When such serious misconduct is alleged against a District Judge, does the Constitutional scheme permit the executive or other authorities to took into the matter? In DAYA SHANKAR v. HIGH COURT OF ALLAHABAD, , a District Munsif was found copying while appearing for LL.M. examination. After conducting enquiry, the High Court of Allahabad recommended to the State Government to remove the petitioner from service. Accordingly, the State Government removed the petitioner from service as District Munsif. The same was challenged in a petition under Article 32 of the Constitution of India. The Supreme Court while dismissing the writ petition observed as under: 124. In ALL INDIA JUDGES' ASSOCIATION v. UNION OF INDIA , , dealing with the nature of judicial office especially the office of a

Judge at District and Subordinate level, the Supreme Court observed: 125. In RAMCHANDRAN IYER v. A.M. BHATTACHARJEE , , the petitioner sought for a direction restraining the Bar Council of Maharashtra and Bombay Bar Association from coercing first respondent therein to resign from the office of the Judge. A prayer was also made seeking directions to CBI to conduct investigation into the allegations made against him, and if the allegations are found to be true, to direct the Speaker of Lok Sabha to initiate impeachment proceedings against first respondent. It was contended that accusations against first respondent without proper investigation by an independent agency would seriously damage the image of the Judiciary, and that Judges are not to be judged by the bar. While observing that independence of judiciary is not limited only to independence from the executive pressure

or influence, and that within its sweep it takes independence from any other pressure or prejudices, the Supreme Court observed: 126. The removal of District Judge, is regulated by the Rules made by the Governor under proviso to Article 309 read with relevant Discipline Rules. In the matter of disciplinary action against District Judges, the position is very stringent. The scope of the power of control of High Court under Articles 233 , 234 and 235 of the Constitution of India is subject-matter of catena of judgments of the apex Court. In STATE OF WEST BENGAL v. NARENDRANATH BAGCHI , AIR 1996

SC 447, SHAMSHEER SINGH v. STATE OF PUNJAB, , BALDEV RAJ v. PUNJAB & HARYANA HIGH COURT, , RANJIT PRASAD SINHA v. STATE OF BIHAR , . In T. LAKSHMI NARASIMHA CHARI v. HIGH COURT OF A.P., , the apex Court categorically held that the disciplinary control over the District Judiciary including initiation and conduct of enquiry into allegations of misconduct absolutely vests in the High Court, and that having regard to Articles 233 , 234 and 235 of the Constitution of India and the relevant Rules, the Governor/ Government can only pass the order of removal, dismissal etc., as recommended by the High Court. The following observations demand excerption: 127. Further, we may notice that in the matter of (i) appointment and recruitment, (ii) confirmation, deputation and promotion, (iii) transfer, disciplinary proceedings, (iv) compulsory retirement, (v) extension of age of superannuation as per All India Judges case (supra), (vi) conferment of selection grade/super time scale, and (vii) correction of date of birth, it is only the High Court
which has the ultimate say. We are not referring to various authorities in this regard. However, we may refer to one area where the constitution requires a consultative and coordinated approach by the High Court as well as the Government in making Rules and Articles 233 and/or 234/235 read with proviso to Article 309. 128. In PRADYUT v. CHIEF JUSTICE, , GURUNATH v. ACCOUNTANT GENERAL, AIR 1971 SC 889, STATE OF ASSAM v. SHUBAN, AIR 1975 SC 889, STATE OF A.P. v. GOPALAKRISHNAN, , CHIEF JUSTICE OF HIGH COURT OF A.P. v. DIKSHITHULU, , B.S.YADAV v. STATE OF HARYANA , and STATE OF BIHAR v. BAL MUKUND SAH , , the apex Court categorically held that power of the Governor to make Rules under proviso to Articles 309 of the Constitution of India or the power of the State to make legislation under Article 309 is circumscribed by the constitutional provisions like Articles 233 and 234 of the Constitution of India. In BAL MUKUND SAH (supra) Majmudar, J, speaking for the majority held: 129. We have briefly adverted to this branch of Indian Constitutional Law because if the enquiry (if at all it is necessary and required) ultimately has to result in the action

as contemplated under Section 11 of Act 16 of 1993, it is only the High Court, which can take action and not any other authority. Section 11 of the Act reads: (2) Any amount paid to such person by the Government or any other agency by way of scholarship, grant, allowance or other financial benefit shall be recovered as an arrear of land revenue. (3) Any degree, diploma or any other educational qualification acquired by such person after securing admission in any educational institution on the basis of a false community certificate shall also stand cancelled on cancellation of the community certificate obtained by him. (4) Whoever not being a person belonging to any of the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes or Backward Classes secures any benefit reserved for Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes or Backward Classes other than those mentioned in Section 12 by producing a false community certificate shall on conviction be punishable with rigorous imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than one thousand rupees but which may extend up to five thousand rupees: 130. Therefore, under Section 11 , the result of obtaining a false and fraudulent community certificate and securing admission and/or employment/appointment in any Government or Government controlled company would be (i) discharge from service forthwith, (ii) recovery of the amount paid by the Government by way of scholarship or financial benefit, (iii) cancellation of degree, diploma or any other educational qualification acquired, and (iv) penal action attracting rigorous imprisonment for not less than six months which may extend to two years with fine up to Rs. 5,000/-. Section 11 , we must say, recognizes the common law principle that any decision of a Court or a public authority is nullity, and a person, who is beneficiary of fraud cannot be allowed to retain such benefit, and that deceit and misrepresentation is a common law offence, which is now recognized under Section 11 . 131. Therefore, there cannot be any doubt that any action against first respondent will have to be by the Government/Governor, and such action shall be in strict compliance with the recommendation made by the High Court. In effect, the ultimate decision will be that of High Court which makes recommendation to the Governor either to appoint a person as District Judge or to remove or dismiss/discharge a person holding office of District Judge. 132. In these circumstances, it would also be embarrassing and agonizing for a

District Judge like first respondent to face enquiry before the District Collector or the Scrutiny Committee. In any event, as we have summarized by way of tabular column, there are admitted facts before us, and therefore, it would be futile for relegating the petitioner to alternative remedy. 133. For these reasons, we must hold that the allegations made by the petitioner in the affidavit accompanying the writ petition and the various averments made by first respondent in the counter-affidavit would lead to an irresistible conclusion that on admitted facts, first respondent failed to place the entire material before the Tahsildar, Salur, before obtaining community certificate in 1979. We must hold that, as observed in CHENGALVARAYA NAIDU (supra), that it was incumbent and it was the duty of first respondent to place all the materials before obtaining a decision/determination that he belongs to Konda Dhora, and having regard to the fact that though he allegedly obtained certificate as Konda Dhora, he went to Civil Court alleging to be Konda Raju, which is equivalent to Konda Dhora, and therefore, first respondent played fraud. In such an event, the question of bona fide or the intention to deceive are irrelevant. As already observed by us, in the field of Public Law, the intention of the person, even if it is bonafide, if he makes a misrepresentation knowing fully well, the same amounts to fraud. Any claim to reservation as ST by any person is only with reference to the Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Order, 1950, which is the organic law (lois organiques) under the Constitution (See Modern Constitutions by K.C. Wheare. (First Indian Reprint 1984 - Oxford - pp 3-4)). Therefore, it is fraud on the Constitution, as observed by the Supreme Court in VASANT KUMAR VORA'S case (supra). What is the relief to be given in the writ petition? 134. The petitioner prayed for a writ in the nature of mandamus declaring that the appointment of first respondent to the post of District and Sessions Judge is void, illegal and unconstitutional, and to set aside the same by passing necessary appropriate orders. We have considered Section 11 of the Act, which results in various consequences noticed hereinabove, including discharge from service forthwith. Though Act 16 was passed in 1993, it came into force w.e.f. 16-5-1997. By reason of Section 11 of the Act, the position is very clear as to what could be the relief that can be given in the writ petition. In this context, we may also refer to various judgments of the Supreme Court, especially with reference to the relief granted when fraud was the basis for obtaining SC/ST community certificate to get appointment or seat in educational institutions. We may also passingly make a reference to the general principles about the effect of fraud. As seen above in LAZARUS ESTATES, Lord Denning observed that "fraud unravels everything, and no judgment of a Court, no order of a Minister can be allowed to stand if it has been obtained by fraud, and a person cannot be allowed to keep an advantage obtained by fraud. This principle has been followed in catena of decisions including in judgments of the Supreme Court in CHANGALVARAYA NAIDU and SATYAM FIBRES (supra). 135. In K.R. SHENOY v. UDIPI MUNICIPALITY , , the apex Court held that a statute cannot be allowed to be used as an instrument of fraud. The following observations are apposite; An excess of statutory power cannot be validated by acquiescence in or by the operation of an estoppel. The Court declines to interfere for the assistance of persons who seek its aid to relieve them against express statutory provisions. Lord Selbome in MADDISON v. ALDERSON,

(1883) 8 App. Cases 467, said that Courts of equity would not permit the statute to be made an instrument of fraud. 136. As already observed by us, the Constitution (Scheduled Tribe) Order, 1950 promulgated by the President under Article 342(1) , which was later amended by Parliament under Article 342(2) , being organic law, is part of the Constitution, and no Court of equity can allow the Constitution to be used as an instrument of fraud. Keeping this in view, we may now examine the relief granted by Court in cases where fraud was alleged in obtaining appointment or admission in educational institutions. 137. In MADHURI PATIL'S case (supra), the appellant and her sister wrongly and fraudulently claimed and obtained admission into BDS and MBBS course in 1992 on the basis of a community certificate that they belong to Mahadev Kholi, a Scheduled Tribe. The Verification Committee conducted an enquiry and rejected their claim as belonging to ST, as a result of which, the certificates issued by the Executive Magistrate were cancelled and confiscated. The appellant challenged the same before the High Court and the same was dismissed. Referring to the entries in the school registers as well as other documents the Supreme Court came to the conclusion that appellant's father was shown in the school register as belonging to Hindu Kholi and not Mahadev Kholi, and that she claimed admission wrongly, it was observed: 138. By the time the Supreme Court decided the case, Madhuri Patil had completed two years of BDS course, and her sister had almost completed MBBS course. Therefore, the Supreme Court allowed the second appellant to complete her course in MBBS, and held that she will not be entitled to any future benefits on the basis of fraudulent social status. In regard to appellant No. 1, the apex Court declared that she cannot continue her studies with her social status as ST, and that she cannot be given any concession, which she might have got on that account, and that she be continued as general candidate if she was eligible for obtaining admission as general candidate. 139. In LAVETI GIRTS case (supra), the apex Court reiterated the principles in MADHURI PATIL (supra), and noticing fraud played on the Constitution by plainsman to wear the mask of false status to corner the constitutional benefits of reservation, declared that respondent shall not be entitled to any employment or any other advantage on the basis of his false status as ST, as the respondent completed his engineering course by depriving a real tribal of the benefit of education as an engineer. The Supreme Court observed: 140. In MILIND'S case, the Constitution Bench of the apex court held that notification issued by President under Article 342 is final, and cannot be modified or amended by any authority. However, having regard to the fact that respondent had prosecuted his studies during the pendency of the writ proceedings, declared that the judgment shall not affect the MBBS degree obtained by him, and it was made clear that respondent cannot take advantage of Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order, 1950 any further or for any constitutional purpose. 141. Therefore, even before Act 16 of 1993 came into force, we have law laid down by the apex Court that all cases of fraudulent ST claims should be scrutinized at the earliest with utmost expedition and promptitude and the persons who wore SC/ ST mask though they did not belong to those reserved classes, must be denied the benefits by withdrawing the same forthwith. Indeed, in our considered opinion, in these proceedings under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, this Court cannot allow any fraud on the Constitution to perpetrate itself any longer. 142. As we have already observed, by virtue of Articles 233 , 234 and 235 , as interpreted by the Supreme Court in various judgments arising under these Articles, the ultimate authority is the High Court in all 

matters concerning conditions of service of all District Judges and Subordinate Judges. Indeed, first respondent in para 10 of his counter-affidavit admits that after joining as Judicial Officer he is working under the control of High Court of A.P., and it is only the High Court, the controlling authority that can raise the issue relating to his working as Judicial Officer and nobody else. 143. We have already recorded our conclusions and findings on various issues, which are raised before us. It is, therefore, only appropriate that the High Court of Andhra Pradesh must consider the case of the first respondent as to whether the decree obtained by the first respondent for getting appointment as District Judge is valid and legal and as to whether any action should be taken against him, including action as contemplated under Section 11 of the Andhra Pradesh (SC, ST and BCs) Regulation of Issue of Community Certificates Act, 1993 in the light of our judgment. 144. In the result, for the aforesaid reasons and in the light of our conclusions and findings, we dispose of the writ petition accordingly. There shall be no order as to costs. Bilal Nazki, J. 145. I have gone through the draft judgment prepared by my brother Justice V.V.S. Rao. With utmost respect I have not been able to persuade myself to agree with some of the conclusions drawn by V.V.S. Rao. J, therefore the necessity of writing a separate judgment. 146. The facts have been dealt with in detail by Justice V.V.S. Rao in his judgment, therefore, I will refer to only those facts which are necessary for pronouncing my views. The Writ petition has been filed for the following reliefs; 147. This Writ petition has been filed by Andhra Pradesh Scheduled Tribes Employees Association represented by one E. Anjaneyulu who claims to be the President of the Association. He also claims that the Association is a registered association. During the hearing of the matter it was stated by the learned counsel for the petitioner that the association had been formed in the year 1964. Now, in the light of the prayer made by the petitioner the other facts will have to be appreciated. 148. The respondent No. 1 was appointed as District and Sessions Judge in the year 1986. He was appointed against a vacancy reserved for Scheduled Tribes. The case of the petitioner is that the respondent No. 1 did not belong to Scheduled Tribe, he obtained appointment on wrong representation of being a member of Scheduled tribe, therefore Writ petition should be allowed. There was some controversy about the caste of the respondent No. 1 before his appointment and he filed a suit being O.S. No. 8/85 in the Court of Subordinate Judge, Parvathipuram. The suit was filed for a declaration that the plaintiff (respondent No. 1 herein) belongs to hill tribe community known as 'Konda Raju'. It was 

stated in the plaint that, Ex-Zamindar of Salur Sri L.N. Sanyasiraju was a Konda Raju by community and the plaintiff was related to said zamindar of Salur and therefore he is a member of the scheduled tribe Konda Raju. The filing of the suit had been necessitated by the fact that the petitioner who had obtained a certificate being D.Dis. No. 2223/79, dated 9-7-79 had applied for the post of District Munsiff. He applied for this post on the strength of the certificate issued to him, but he received a notice on 22-6-80 from the Joint Collector, Vizianagaram calling upon him to appear for an enquiry in respect of the fact whether he belongs to scheduled tribe or not. He appeared before the Joint Collector, Vizianagaram and according to him submitted his evidence. The Joint Collector did not pass any order. But, he received a memo No. 174/DM/0/79, dated 21-1-81 from the A.P. Public Service Commission intimating him that his candidature for the post of District Munsiff was not considered as against scheduled tribe vacancy as he did not belong to schedule tribe and he was considered under open category and he was not able to get selected. The plaintiff submitted that, no enquiry was conducted therefore he filed the suit. Before filing the suit he had filed a Writ petition being W.P. No. 559/81 seeking quashing of the proceedings of the A.P. Public Service Commission. While hearing the Writ petition the High Court observed that the plaintiff should file a suit for declaration before the Civil Court in respect of the caste of the plaintiff therefore he withdrew the Writ petition with liberty to file a suit for declaration with respect to his caste. The High Court passed the following order : After this Writ petition, the plaintiff in the suit i.e, respondent No. 1 in this Writ petition gave a notice under Section 80 C.P.C to the Government and eventually filed the suit. The State of Andhra Pradesh, A.P. Public Service Commission and the Tahsildar concerned were made defendants in the suit. On the basis of the pleadings the following issues were framed by the trial court; 1. Whether the plaintiff belongs to Kondadora community? 2. Whether the plaintiff is entitled to the declaration as he prayed for? 3. To what relief? The trial court issued the decree in favour of the plaintiff and an appeal was preferred by the defendants being A.S. No. 45/85 on the file of Additional District Judge, Vizianagaram. The appeal was dismissed on 20th February, 1986. Then the matter was taken to the High Court in Second Appeal being S.A. No. 722/86. It was also dismissed on 12-9-88. During the pendency of these proceedings, applications were invited for the posts of District & Sessions Judges Grade-II. The respondent No. 1 applied and he was appointed by the Government of Andhra Pradesh by an order dated 5-1-87. When the appointment order was issued the Government was in know of the fact that the status of the respondent No. 1 with regard to his caste was in dispute, therefore the order of appointment was made subject to the result of the Second Appeal filed by the Government. After the dismissal of the Second Appeal the Government passed the order G.O.Rt. No. 1700, dated 30th April, 1990 stating therein that the respondent No. 1 shall be deemed to have been appointed as District & Sessions Judge Grade-II in the vacancy reserved for the Scheduled Tribes. 149. So, in a way the controversy got settled. But, in between one Sri Maheswara

Rao, Legal Adviser, Scheduled Tribe Employees Association submitted a petition to the A.P. State Legal Services Authority on 18-9-98. This petition was sought to be treated as Public interest litigation petition. In this petition also it was stated that respondent No. 1 was not a member of the Konda dora community. The Legal Services Authority called remarks of the respondent No. 1. He submitted his points of view and the Chairman, Legal Services Authority wrote the following; After this order by the Legal Services Authority another Writ petition came to be filed against the respondent No. 1 being W.P. No. 30827/98. It was also a public interest litigation and it sought a writ of quo-warranto. In this Writ petition it was contended that the respondent No. 1 belongs to 'Ksharriya' caste which was not notified as scheduled tribe and that the respondent No. 1 did not belong to "Konda dora" community. Fraud was also alleged to have been committed by respondent No. 1. The present Writ petition is basically revolving around the allegation that though the respondent No. 1 knew that he did not belong to 'Konda dora' community he obtained a decree from the Court and as such played fraud, therefore all the judgments passed in favour of respondent No. 1 would not stand in the way of the court to declare the selection of respondent No. 1 as District & Sessions Judge way back in 1986 as illegal. 150. My brother Justice V.V.S. Rao framed three points for consideration. I have no dispute with the points so framed and as a matter of fact these were the points which were argued at the Bar. But, I do not agree

with the conclusions arrived at by Justice V.V.S. Rao on point Nos. 2 and 3. The first question is, whether the decree of the Civil Court in O.S. No. 8/95 was a nullity and without jurisdiction. In my view, this question is not for a debate. I agree that this question could be reopened if fraud was proved. On first principles let me examine whether in this case fraud was proved. 151. The Tahsildar concerned gave a certificate to respondent No. 1 that he belongs to a particular community. The respondent No. 1 applied for the post of District Munsiff? He was not considered against the reserved category as the Public Service Commission was of the view that he was not a member of reserved community. He filed a Writ petition. In the Writ petition itself he was given liberty by the High Court to file a suit. When he filed the plaint he did not at all submit to the Court that he was a member of Konda dora community. His case was that, he was member of 'Konda Raju' community which was synonymous to the 'Konda dora' community. On the basis of evidence, this was found correct by the trial court, upheld by the appellate Court and this High Court dismissed the Second Appeal. Now, whether the Court was right in passing a decree or not is a matter, in my view, which cannot be gone into particularly after almost after two decades of the filing of the suit. 152. I am not going to refer to all the judgments which were referred to by my learned brother. There is no dispute with regard to the principles laid down by those judgments, but those judgments are relevant if fraud is proved. I fail to understand at what stage the respondent No. 1 played fraud with Court. He has come with clean hands to the Court. A certificate had been issued in his favour which was not taken into consideration by the Public Service Commission. He filed a Writ petition and then he filed a suit staring all the facts which were necessary for the adjudication

of the dispute. The judgments have become final. I am also of the view that even the question relating to fraud has also become final. After disposal of the suit, first appeal and the second appeal another Writ petition seeking writ of quo-warranto was filed which was decided by a Division Bench of this Court. The Division Bench dismissed the Writ and an appeal was taken to the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court dismissed the appeal in limini. It is true that by dismissing the appeal in limini the Supreme Court has not put a seal of approval on the judgment of Division Bench but if the Division Bench has come to a finding that there was no fraud, I am afraid, we cannot reopen that question again. The Division Bench was of the view; In view of this clear finding of Division Bench of this Court, what is sought to be achieved in this Writ petition is to nullify the judgment of the Division Bench. Since the petitioners who filed earlier Writ petition failed in Supreme Court, they want to convert this High Court into an appellate Court which cannot be and should not be permitted. Judgments have finality. As has been stated herein above, I have not been able to convince myself that the respondent No. 1 has at any stage even tried to play fraud with the Court. Therefore, it is not open for us to reopen the issue after two decades. It is curious to note that the petitioner association has been formed in the year 1964 and it claims to be the champion of the interests of scheduled tribes. It did not know for two decades that a person who did not belong to their community has been appointed as District Judge under scheduled tribe category. This cannot be believed. They have been in know of it all through and they have been trying to get the respondent No. 1 out of service and filing petition after petition. Once the earlier petition was dismissed, once the Supreme

Court did not entertain the S.L.P, by another name same reliefs are sought from this Court. If one sees the reliefs claimed in the Writ petition the intention of the petitioner becomes clear. 153. It appears that this is another face of Mr. Ambati Vincent who filed earlier Writ petition because the pleadings are similar. Not only the pleadings are similar but the petitioner in this Writ petition knows about every detail of the earlier cases, but still the petitioner did not come to this Court because Mr. Vincent was fighting it out. The petitioner in this Writ petition even knows that Mr. Ambati Vincent had also made a representation to the President of India. One can understand that a person comes to know about the cases pending in a Court but I wonder how the petitioner also knows that Mr. Vincent had filed a representation before the President of India. Having failed up to the Apex. Court they devised this method of trying to reopen the whole controversy. The Writ petitioner wants that the respondent No. 1 should not be considered for appointment as a Judge of the High Court. Can such a direction be given by us. Whether we can direct constitutional authorities like the President of India, Chief Justice of India and the Chief Justice of High Court not to consider respondent No. 1 for appointment as Judge of the High Court. 154. Now, I will only refer to one fact before closing my judgment. That, a certificate bad been issued in favour of the respondent No. 1 in the year 1979. The finding of the Division Bench of this Court is that this certificate is still operative. This certificate has not been challenged even now. The certificate issued in the year 1979 was issued on the basis of enquiry. I do not want to go into the correctness of the judgment of the trial court in the suit or the appellate court. I do not also want to go into the correctness of the judgment of the Division Bench. I have only applied my mind to the

fact that whether at any stage the plaintiff was responsible for any fraud on the Court. With respects and humility, I reiterate, if it was proved that the respondent No. 1 had played fraud on the Court it would be sufficient to nullity the decree. Fraud is a question of fact and if fraud is not proved all the judgments relied upon by the learned counsel for the petitioner would not help him. On facts, let us examine what is the evidence for fraud. The evidence, if any, has to be seen and examined in the light of the pleadings. I have gone through the whole of the Writ petition. The petitioner did not allege fraud having been committed by respondent No. 1 at all. In para-11 while referring to pronouncements of the Supreme Court the petitioner said, "It is further stated that parsons who played fraud on Constitution should not be permitted to hold a post under the Constitution" Nowhere fraud is pleaded at all in the Writ petition. There are no facts shown to the Court on the basis of which one can come to a conclusion that there was fraud. In the same paragraph again it has been stated that it was the admitted case that respondent No. 1 belonged to the Kshatriya caste but claimed as Konda Raju and obtained equality with Konda Dora. Reference was made by the learned counsel for the petitioner to a photostat copy of a school certificate in which the respondent No. 1 had been described as 'Oriya Kshatriya. This certificate was Ex.A7 in the suit. It has not even been placed as a material paper in the Writ petition. It was not even pleaded in the Writ petition. The difficulty in this case is that the documents which have been referred to are not strictly speaking even the material on record. They have never been pleaded in the Writ petition. There was no chance to the respondent No. 1 to give a response to that material. Even it was brought to our notice at the time of hearing. But, what would be the effect even if the respondent No. 1 had claimed at one stage that he was a Kshatriya. Would it still amount to fraud. The answer lies in a Constitution Bench judgment of Supreme Court reported in V.V. Giri v. D.S. Dora , . The controversy before the Supreme Court was whether the 1st respondent in that petition had ceased to be a member of Scheduled tribe at the material time because he had become a Kshatriya. The Supreme Court said; So, the Supreme Court in a way found that, once the social, educational, economical status of a person belonging to a deprived class got raised it was not unusual for such persons to profess that they were Kshatriya. I do not see any fraud in such a thing. I have already held that I am not going to deal with the evidence or correctness or incorrectness of the earlier judgments but I have adverted to this aspect of the case only to analyse as to what has been pleaded to show to this Court that respondent No. 1 has committed fraud. 155. Since there is no evidence to come to a conclusion that any fraud has been played it is unnecessary to go into the question whether the fraud is a fraud simplicitor, fraud against the statute, fraud against the constitution or fraud against the people. It is well settled that even if a bonafide wrong judgment has become final it cannot be reopened. 156. On the scope and ambit of Article 342 of the Constitution vis-a-vis the jurisdiction of the Civil Court my brother Justice V.V.S. Rao referred to a latest judgment of Supreme Court in State of Maharashtra v. Milind , AIR 2001 SC 393. This judgment was by a Constitutional Bench. The judgment starts with framing of two questions which are: In para-2 of the judgment the Court noted; The order of reference made by the Bench of Supreme Court to the Constitution Bench itself shows that the law was not settled till Milind 's case (supra). Even after settling the law, in the Milind 's case they did not disturb the respondent No. 1. The respondent No. 1 (before the Supreme Court) in this case had obtained a certificate of being a member of Scheduled Tribe and had joined the medical college. It would be interesting to note para-37 of the judgment. In the light of this legal position I do not consider it necessary to go through the evolutionary process with regard to interpretation of Article 342 of the Constitution of India. 157. For these reasons, I do not find merit in this Writ petition which is accordingly dismissed. R.M. Bapat, J. 158. I have perused the draft judgments prepared by my esteemed brothers, Bilal Nazki, J. and V.V.S. Rao. J. In fact, having regard to the importance of the matter, I have had discussed the case with my brother judges informally as well as formally on two occasions. After having given my anxious consideration, I am not able to agree with the view taken by my learned brother, Bilal Nazki, J. I am in full agreement with all the conclusions on facts and questions of law reached by my learned brother. V.V.S. Rao, J. I also agree with the ultimate order and direction proposed by my learned brother, V.V.S. Rao, J. The writ petition is accordingly disposed of. There shall be no order as to costs.