% 03.05.2024 1. This application has been filed by the applicant under Section 438 Cr.P.C. seeking anticipatory bail in case FIR No.992/2022 dated 12.09.2022
 registered under Sections 448 / 452 / 34 IPC at PS: Subhash Place. 2. Status report has been filed on behalf of the State. It is the case of the
 prosecution that present FIR was registered in compliance with the order of
 the Court under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C. pursuant to a complaint filed by
 Vikram Singh Tanwar, Authorized Representative of Assets Reconstruction
 Company (India) Limited (ARCIL) alleging that Bajaj Finance Limited
 sanctioned a loan for a sum of Rs.2,97,00,000/- in favour of BR Associate
 Private Limited against mortgage of property bearing No. 312-313, 3rd floor,
 Neta Ji Subhash Place, New Delhi. BR Associate failed to adhere to the
 agreed terms and conditions of the loan and the loan was declared NPA.
 Proceedings were initiated under Securitisation and Reconstruction of
 Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002 (SARFAESI Act ) against the accused company, which failed to make good
 the payment despite service of notice under Section 13(2) of the SARFAESI BAIL APPLN. 1505/2023 Page 1 of 7 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 07/05/2024 at 02:38:00
 Act. Accordingly, an application was filed under Section 14 of the said Act
 before the learned CMM and a Court Receiver was appointed to take
 physical possession of the mortgaged property. As per the allegations in the
 FIR, in compliance of the Court order, Court Receiver took physical
 possession of the property on 19.07.2022 and property was sealed. 3. It is further stated that on 23.07.2022, complainant received a call
 from the Security Supervisor of PP Tower that some persons had forcibly
 entered into the property after breaking open the lock put by the Receiver
 and present case was registered under Sections 448 / 452 / 34 IPC. During
 course of investigation, alleged eye witness Aditya Choudhary, who was the
 first informer of the alleged trespassing, was examined and in his statement,
 he corroborated the allegations in the complaint. Notice under Section 160 Cr.P.C. was served on the applicant to join investigation but it was only after
 repeated notices that she joined investigation. 4. It is stated that the anticipatory bail of the applicant was dismissed by
 the learned Sessions Judge on the ground that applicant forcibly entered the
 property by breaking the lock in defiance of the Court order and neither
 honoured her financial obligations nor the Court order and continues to be in
 illegal possession of the property, which is under the symbolic custody of
 the Court through the Court Receiver. During further investigation, Section
 454 IPC has been added in place of Section 452 IPC. 5. Learned APP for the State, relying on the status report, urges that the
 allegations against the applicant are serious as she has failed to fulfil her
 financial obligations towards repayment of the loan and has also violated the
 Court's directive by breaking open the lock placed by a Court Receiver and
 is thus not deserving of anticipatory bail. Applicant joined investigation on BAIL APPLN. 1505/2023 Page 2 of 7 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 07/05/2024 at 02:38:00
 31.12.2023 and 04.02.2024, after interim protection was granted to her by
 this Court and was interrogated in the presence of a lady police officer.
 Interrogation report has been prepared. The applicant is not co-operating and
 is in total denial of the fact that she trespassed into the property, which is in
 the symbolic possession of the Court, by breaking open the lock and the seal
 placed on the property by the Receiver. 6. Counsel for the applicant, per contra, submits that applicant is a
 senior citizen and the only lady in the house looking after her husband, who
 is immobilized and almost on death bed. On account of the domestic
 responsibilities, applicant has sacrificed her professional life. Applicant's
 husband was initially running a company called Magnum Steels Limited,
 which had availed a secured loan from Bajaj Finance Limited and the
 immovable property in question was mortgaged for availing the loan. The
 loan was assigned to a securitisation company by the lender, who recalled
 the loan and filed a recovery application before the Debt Recovery Tribunal
 (DRT-III), Delhi being OA No. 116/2022, which is pending. During the
 pendency, the alleged assignee invoked the provisions of SARFAESI Act and orders were passed by the learned CMM for taking over physical
 possession of the secured asset and a Court Receiver was appointed. 7. Learned counsel submits that physical possession of the secured asset
 i.e. the mortgaged property was not taken on 12.07.2022, the date notified
 by the Receiver. On learning of the order, a statutory appeal was filed under
 the SARFAESI Act before DRT-III and vide order dated 25.07.2022, the
 lender was restrained from taking over the possession, copy of which has
 been filed along with this application. In the interregnum, however, the
 lender made a false complaint leading to registration of the present FIR. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 07/05/2024 at 02:38:01
 Applicant has no role in the entire issue. She is not the borrower of the loan
 and has not trespassed into the property since the possession was never
 taken over. The medical condition of the applicant's husband and her own
 age and medical issues do not physically permit the applicant to break open
 the locks and forcibly trespass into the property. Applicant has clean
 antecedents and deep roots in the society and is willing to abide by any
 condition imposed by this Court for grant of bail. Applicant is willing to join
 further investigation as and when called by the IO. It is strenuously
 contended that non-cooperation cannot be alleged against the applicant on
 the ground that she is not confessing to the alleged offence. Reliance is
 placed on the order of the Supreme Court in Hemant Kumar v. State of
 Haryana, Special Leave to Appeal (Crl.) No.232/2024 decided on
 06.03.2024, wherein the Supreme Court held that for the purpose of
 investigation, accused cannot be called upon to confess to the commission of
 the offence and/or make self-incriminating statements. 8. Heard learned counsel for the applicant and learned APP for the State. 9. On 08.05.2023, this Court had granted interim protection to the
 applicant against coercive actions, subject to her joining the investigation, as
 and when directed by the IO and fully co-operating in the same. Applicant
 has joined investigation and there are no allegations that she has misused the
 liberty granted by the Court and/or tampered with evidence or
 threatened/intimidated any witness. It is also not the case of the State that
 custodial interrogation of the applicant is required. Opposition to the present
 application is primarily on the ground that applicant is denying the
 allegation of trespassing in the property in question after breaking the lock
 and the seal put by the Court Receiver pursuant to an order passed by the BAIL APPLN. 1505/2023 Page 4 of 7 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 07/05/2024 at 02:38:01
 learned CMM in proceedings under Section 14 of the SARFAESI Act. This
 Court is unable to subscribe to the arguments of the State that applicant is
 not co-operating in the investigation as she is in denial of the allegations. No
 doubt, the objective and purpose of investigation is to elicit the truth and
 recover documents, weapons of offence etc. in a given case. However, it is
 equally settled that process of investigation cannot be used by the
 investigating agency to elicit confession from the accused. No accused can
 be called upon to make self-incriminating statements or give or furnish self-
 incriminating evidence. The allegation against the applicant is of trespassing
 into the subject property and she cannot be denied anticipatory bail on the
 ground that applicant is not admitting the allegations. 10. The Supreme Court in Santosh s/o Dwarkadas Fafat v. State of
 Maharashtra , (2017) 9 SCC 714, while relying on one of its earlier
 decisions in Selvi and Others v. State of Karnataka , (2010) 7 SCC 263 held
 as under:- This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 07/05/2024 at 02:38:01 11. In Bijender v. State of Haryana, Special Leave to Appeal (Crl.)
 No. 1079/2024, decided on 06.03.2024, the Supreme Court observed that an
 accused, while joining investigation as a condition for remaining enlarged
 on bail, is not expected to make self-incriminating statements under the
 threat that the State shall seek withdrawal of such interim protection.
 Recently, the Supreme Court in Hemant (supra), reiterated the said
 proposition of law. Certainly, this cannot be understood to mean that the
 accused will not render co-operation for completion of the investigation.
 Once granted interim protection, applicant is always expected to join
 investigation and co-operate therein and cannot be heard to defend any
 hindrance caused to an ongoing investigation. In the present case, the
 applicant is joining investigation and has undergone detailed interrogation,
 however, she cannot be expected to confess to the allegations made. It
 would be a matter of trial whether the applicant had forcefully broken the
 lock/seal placed by the Receiver and trespassed into the property in
 question, as alleged. At this stage, it is neither proper nor possible for this
 Court to come to a conclusion on this aspect, one way or the other. 12. Applicant is a senior citizen and the only member of the family, who
 is looking after her husband who is stated to be immobilized and is on death
 bed. State does not claim that the applicant is a flight risk or there are
 chances of her fleeing from justice. 13. Considering the totality of facts and circumstances, it is directed that
 in the event of arrest, applicant shall be released on bail upon her furnishing
 a personal bond in the sum of Rs.30,000/- with two sureties of the like
 amount to the satisfaction of the concerned IO and further subject to the
 following conditions: - 14. It is, however, made clear that the observations made in the present
 order will not be construed as an expression of opinion on the merits of the
 case. It is also made clear that this order or any observation(s) in this order
 will not come in the way of the lender initiating or continuing proceedings
 against the applicant in relation to the recovery of loan including
 proceedings for recovery of possession of the property, by due process of
 law. 15. Bail application stands disposed of in the aforesaid terms along with
 pending application. JYOTI SINGH, J
 MAY 3, 2024
 B.S. Rohella/shivam BAIL APPLN. 1505/2023 Page 7 of 7 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 07/05/2024 at 02:38:01