The Appellant- Mr. Shobhnath filed an application under Section 7

of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 ("I&B Code", for short)

against 'Prism Industrial Complex Limited'- ('Corporate Debtor'). The

Adjudicating Authority (National Company Law Tribunal), by detailed

judgment dated 5th July, 2018 rejected the application under Section 7

with following reasons: "Whether insolvency application can be

 entertained in a case where financial fraud exists? 2 Admittedly the corporate debtor company had

 raised deposits from retail investors, by instruments

 purporting to be debentures. The debentures were issued

 to more than 3000 investors. In accordance with the provisions of sec. 67 of the

 Companies Act, 1956, these debentures were deemed to

 have been issued to public. - - - - The debentures were issued in breach of the public

 issue norms, and therefore, the debentures must be

 redeemed immediately. Additionally, some of the debentures were

 regarded to be "deposits", being unsecured

 debentures, and orders have been passed by the

 NCLT for immediate repayment of the said

 debentures. Even while the said orders of NCLT are pending for

 execution, and have not been acted upon application

 has been made by some of the financial creditors for

 insolvency of the Corporate Debtor under sec. 7 of the IBC. There are two essential reasons why such

 an application for declaration of insolvency and

 moratorium under sec. 7 cannot be granted. Company Appeal (AT) (Insolvency) No. 557 of 2018 3 First reason is purely a question of bonafide

 reasons for making the application, and the implications

 of the insolvency declaration and ensuing moratorium. There is no doubt that the enactment of the

 insolvency resolution process under the IBC is a step

 towards resolution or rectification of an insolvency. There

 is a company which had run into financial problems; the

 creditors are proposing to collectively bail the company

 out. These provisions are intended for repairing a broken

 house that still can be repaired, and can avoid demolition.

 The intent of Insolvency resolution process cannot be to

 interfere in cases where there are financial irregularities,

 illegalities or indications of a financial fraud. The present case is one where interests of a large

 number of retail investors, from whom money has been

 raised in the guise of debentures or deposits, is involved.

 None of these retail investors, who have been deprived of

 their life's savings, could be intending to be benevolent to

 think of resolution or revival of such a company. It is also

 evident that having raised money from numerous

 investors, the promoters/directors have siphoned the

 funds out into various affiliated companies. This is evident

 from a study of the balance sheet of the company.

Company Appeal (AT) (Insolvency) No. 557 of 2018 4 Where the situation is reflective of a financial

 fraud, and orders of NCLT for immediate repayment of

 the debentures/deposits have remained unexecuted,

 what the ends of justice require is effective

 implementation of orders already issued, and sternest

 prosecution of an offender responsible for

 financial fraud. The benevolent scheme of IBC for a

 resolution of a company under distress is not meant for a

 case of a financial fraud or irregularity, where the

 directors/promoters have deliberately engaged in a

 scheme having striking similarity with the Infamous "chit

 funds" or Ponzi schemes. The promoters/directors face

 serious criminal implication for breach of the orders of SEBI

 as well noncompliance of provisions of sec. 73 / 74 of the

 Companies Act 1956. It is also notable that section 75 of

 the Companies Act provides that raising of deposits, or

 non-payment thereof, amounts to a serious corporate

 fraud, punishable under sec. 447 of the Companies Act.

 It can be no one's case that in such a murky

 scenario of corporate fraud, section 7 , which is

 intended for a holistic collective healing process,

 could be rightly deployed. Company Appeal (AT) (Insolvency) No. 557 of 2018 5 The second reason why CIRP process cannot

 be initiated in a case such as the one in hand, is a

 combined reading of sec. 3(17) and sec. 3 (16) (a) of the

 Code. As per sec. 3(16) (a) , the business of accepting

 deposits is included in the definition of "financial services".

 A financial services provider, as per sec. (17) is one who is

 engaged in the business of providing financial services, in

 accordance with authorization or registration granted

 under the law. Where an authorization or registration is

 required by statute, not obtaining the same cannot grant

 the entity the right to get out of the provisions which are

 intended to apply to an entity engaged in similar services. It is notable that sec.3 (7) excludes a financial

 services provider from the ambit of the Code The intent of

 the exclusion is simple if an entity is engaged in financial

 services business, it has a systemic significance. It

 involves money belonging to public. If such a company is

 put into a situation of moratorium, and the payments

 made by such entity are halted, the financial system

 could get into a tail spin. Such a serious implication to the

 fact, keeping such entities outside a benevolent, remedial

 law such as IBC, is all the more important for such a truant

Company Appeal (AT) (Insolvency) No. 557 of 2018 6 entity, which is sitting with public money, and that too,

 without any authorization. The consequential impact of the commencement of

 CIRP will be moratorium. This will actually mean the

 orders made by SEBI or NCLT for immediate refund of the

 money, raised from retail investors will not be

 implemented during the moratorium period. Also, the

 constitution of the Committee of Creditors and the system

 of voting there at, goes on the basis of majority by value. It

 is quite possible that the corporate person may have

 created creditors with high value, who may care feast for

 the interests of retail investors, from whom money has

 been. Hence, the so-called resolution plan may harm the

 interests of such investors. Considering the Intent of the CIRP provisions,

 public interest involved and the ends of justice, we are of

 the view that in the present case, the application for CIRP

 deserves to be rejected. The learned counsel for the financial creditor has

 emphasised on admitting the petition, for initiation of CIRP.

 Corporate debtor itself has filed its no objections in the

 form of affidavit, claiming that CIRP process will be in the

 interest of the debenture holders/ depositors and the

Company Appeal (AT) (Insolvency) No. 557 of 2018 7 corporate debtor. The petition filed in the insolvency and

 bankruptcy code cannot be admitted only on the ground

 that corporate debtor has not opposed the petition Section

 65 of The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code 2O16

 provides that

 "if any person initiates the insolvency

 resolution process or liquidation proceedings

 fraudulently with malicious intent for any

 purpose other than for resolution of insolvency,

 or liquidation, as the case may be, the

 adjudicating authority may impose upon such

 person a penalty which shall not be less than

 Rs. 1 lakh, but we may extend to one crore

 rupees." Thus it is clear that while a petition is filed under

 Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code 2016, fraudulently

 with malicious intention for initiation of CIRP, then in

 that case the petition cannot be admitted not be

 admitted and actions should be initiated under section

 65 of the Code. This is a fit case where we find that this

 petition has been filed fraudulently for initiation of

 corporate, insolvency process, therefore petition

 deserves to be dismissed. Company Appeal (AT) (Insolvency) No. 557 of 2018 8 Order

 The petition filed by the financial creditor under section 7 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy code is

 dismissed for the reasons assigned in the body of the

 judgment. We further order that show cause notices under section 65 of The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code

 against the petitioner/ financial creditors be issued. Reply

 against the notices may be filed within three weeks from

 today. A copy of this order be communicated to the SEBI

 and to the Central Government through RD(NR). List on dated 7th August, 2018 of further

 proceeding." 2. The Adjudicating Authority by impugned Judgment also directed

for issuance of show-cause notice under Section 65 of the 'I&B Code'

against the Appellants/ 'Financial Creditors' for further decision. 3. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the Appellants submitted

that the Adjudicating Authority is required to take into consideration the

relevant facts as recorded in Form-1 to find out whether debt is payable

Company Appeal (AT) (Insolvency) No. 557 of 2018 9 and the application is complete or not. If the debt is payable and default

is of more than Rs.1 lakh and record is complete, the Adjudicating

Authority is bound to admit the application. 4. In spite of service of notice and publication of advertisement in two

Newspapers one in English- 'Times of India, Allahabad Edition' and

another is Hindi- 'Hindustan, Allahabad Edition', the 'Corporate Debtor'

has not appeared. 5. From the impugned order, we find that the Adjudicating Authority

has allowed intervention applications filed by different creditors, which is

not the requirement of the 'I&B Code'/ law. 6. In "Innoventive Industries Ltd. v. ICICI Bank & Anr.─ Company

Appeal (AT) (Insolvency) Nos. 1 & 2 of 2017", this Appellate Tribunal

held that before admitting an application under Sections 7 or 9, a limited

notice is required to be given to the 'Corporate Debtor' by the Adjudicating

Authority. 7. The matter subsequently fell for consideration before the Hon'ble

Supreme Court in " Innoventive Industries Ltd. v. ICICI Bank and

Anr.─ (2018) 1 SCC 407" wherein dealing with the provisions of Sections

7 or 9, the Hon'ble Apex Court observed and held as follows: 8. In " Innoventive Industries Ltd. v. ICICI Bank and Anr." (Supra ),

it is made clear that the 'debt' means a liability of obligation in respect of

a 'claim' and a 'claim' means a right to payment even if it is disputed.

The Code gets triggered the moment default is of rupees one lakh or more. 9. The Hon'ble Supreme Court specifically held that when it comes to

a 'Financial Creditor' triggering the process, Section 7 becomes relevant.

The application is made by a 'Financial Creditor' in Form 1 accompanied

by documents and records required therein. Form 1 is a detailed form in

5 parts, which requires particulars of the applicant in Part I, particulars

of the 'Corporate Debtor' in Part II, particulars of the proposed 'Interim

Resolution Professional' in Part III, particulars of the 'Financial Debt' in

Part IV and documents, records and evidence of default in Part V.

Company Appeal (AT) (Insolvency) No. 557 of 2018 15 10. Thus, it is clear that once the record is complete, Code is to be

triggered if there is a default of more than Rs. 1 lakh. The 'Corporate

Debtor' can only point out that the debt may not be due in a sense it is

not payable in law or in fact. 11. This Appellate Tribunal in numerous cases has stated that notice

is to be given only to the 'Corporate Debtor' in an application under Sections 7 or 9 of the 'I&B Code'. The question of intervention by a third

party before the admission of the application under Sections 7 or 9 does

not arise. 12. It is a settled law that the Adjudicating Authority is only required

to ensure whether there is a debt and default on the basis of record (Form 1). It cannot take into consideration any other facts which are irrelevant.

The 'Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process' not being a litigation much

less adversarial litigation or a recovery proceeding or a money suit, has

been held by this Appellate Tribunal in "Binani Industries Limited vs.

Bank of Baroda & Anr.─ Company Appeal (AT) (Insolvency) No. 82 of

2018 etc.". For the said reason, we hold that the Adjudicating Authority

cannot notice to hold that owing to the financial fraud the amount was

not paid by the 'Corporate Debtor'. 13. Section 65 of the 'I&B Code' provides "Fraudulent or malicious

initiation of proceedings" which reads as follows: (2) If, any person initiates voluntary liquidation

 proceedings with the intent to defraud any person, the

 Adjudicating Authority may impose upon such person

 a penalty which shall not be less than one lakh rupees

 but may extend to one crore rupees." 14. From the aforesaid provision, it is clear that if, any person initiates

the Insolvency Resolution Process or Liquidation Proceedings

fraudulently or with malicious intent for any purpose other than for the

resolution of insolvency, or liquidation, the Adjudicating Authority has

power to impose upon such person penalty which shall not be less than

one lakh rupees, and may extend to one crore rupees. 15. In the present case, the Adjudicating Authority has failed to show

that the present proceeding under Section 7 was filed by the Appellant

fraudulently or with malicious intention for initiation of the 'Corporate

Company Appeal (AT) (Insolvency) No. 557 of 2018 17 Insolvency Resolution Process' against the 'Corporate Debtor'. Whatever

the grounds shown for not entertaining the application are not related

and beyond Form 1 and were not to be pleaded. In fact, nothing on the

record to suggest that the Appellant filed application fraudulently with

malicious intention for initiation of the 'Corporate Insolvency Resolution

Process' against the 'Corporate Debtor'. 16. Prima facie no case was made out before the Adjudicating Authority

for passing any observation under Section 65 of the 'I&B Code' merely on

the ground that the Directors and Promoters have engaged in Scheme

having striking similarity with the infamous chit funds or Ponzi Schemes.

The Promoters/ Directors may face serious criminal implication for

breach of the orders of SEBI, but that cannot be ground to reject the

application under Section 7 against the 'Corporate Debtor', or to initiate

any proceeding under Section 65 against the Appellants, who have no

connection with the Directors or Promoters of the 'Corporate Debtor'. 17. For the reasons aforesaid, we set aside the impugned judgment

dated 5th July, 2018 and remit the case to the Adjudicating Authority to

admit the application after notice to the 'Corporate Debtor' so as to enable

the 'Corporate Debtor' to settle the claim. No intervention application can

be entertained by the Adjudicating Authority before admission of the

application. Company Appeal (AT) (Insolvency) No. 557 of 2018 18 The appeal is allowed with aforesaid observations and direction. No

costs. (Justice S.J. Mukhopadhaya)
 Chairperson

 (Justice A.I.S. Cheema)
 Member(Judicial)

 (Kanthi Narahari)
 Member(Technical)
NEW DELHI
6th August, 2019

AR

Company Appeal (AT) (Insolvency) No. 557 of 2018