The Inspector of Police, CBI/ACB/Bengaluru has filed

charge sheet against the accused Nos.1 to 3, on the basis of

Source Information for the offences punishable under Sections

120-B r/w.420 IPC and Sec.13(2) r/w.13 (1)(d) of Prevention of

Corruption Act, 1988 . 2. The brief facts of the case of prosecution are as

under:- 3. Prosecution further alleged that, accused No.1 with

dishonest intention, placed one of the candidate Gungi Ankamma

Rao of OBC category as General category, even though he had

produced original OBC certificate in the Central Format, for the

reasons that the said candidate refused to pay bribe demanded

by accused No.1. Further, accused No.1 as public servant

abused his official position and with dishonest intention shown

favour to his candidate T.Venkatasudarshan, who had not

produced SC certificate along with application. Inspite of that he

was given the benefit of reserved category and had selected for

the post of JO. Accused No.1 further abused his official position

to do undue favour to candidate of his choice given more marks

despite not having any mining degree or knowledge on the

subject and given more marks than marks given by S.K.Verma, 8 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 GM (Production) and Vipin Kumar, Senior Manager

(Mining). He had benefited some of the candidates by

qualifying in the interview and getting selected for the post of JO,

in spite of better candidates were attended interview. He had

shown favour to the candidates namely Asit Kumar

Behera, Avijit Roy, Anadi Mahapatra, T.Venkatasudarshan,

Khajababu Sheik and P.Thanesh Kumar. 4. Further, accused No.1 manipulated the work experience

of above said Gungi Ankamma Rao only to cause disadvantage

by showing less experience of 5 years 9 months, though, he had

actual experience of 6 year 2 months. He was eligible candidate

deprived of selection by fraudulent and dishonest acts of accused

No.1, who had abused his official position intentionally and

changed his category from OBC to General. Further, accused

No.1 during the interview initially gave Zero marks to the

experience of Gungi Ankamma Rao though he had more than 5

years experience. Later it was objected by one of the interview

board members V.B.Vipin Kumar, therefore, accused No.1 gave

two marks to the said candidate. However, Gungi Ankamma Rao

had scored 66 marks in written examination and 14.42 marks in 9 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 personal interview, which was highest among the OBC

candidates. But accused No.1 shown him as General candidate

and disqualified from being appointed as JO. 5. Further alleged that, accused No.1 being member of

interview committee, with dishonest and fraudulent intention did

not compile the interview marks on 21.7.2013 on the date of

interview itself and it was done after one week, on 29.7.2013

only for the purpose of manipulating marks and he did not keep

the assessment sheets of the six members interview committee

in a sealed cover and not obtained the signatures of all of them

on the said cover. Further accused No.1 in view of criminal

conspiracy with accused Nos.2 and 3 has not complied with some

of the important guidelines and violated recruitment policy and

procedure of NMDC while recruiting JO by showing undue favour

to candidate of his choice. 6. Further accused No.2 with dishonest and fraudulent

intention collected the mobile numbers of candidates who have

appeared for the written examination contacted them over

phone and also met them personally stating that he would get 10 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 them selected for the post of JO, if they pay amount of Rs.3-5

lakhs to the NMDC Management. Further made allegation

against accused No.2 that he being one of the candidates said to

be acted as a conduit between the candidates and the

Management for collecting bribe from many aspirant candidates

to get selected them by influencing the officials of NMDC Limited.

Accused No.2 from his Mobile phone called Gungi Ankamma Rao

and informed that Management had asked him to arrange five

candidates, who will pay a sum of Rs.3 to 4 lakhs to get select

for the post of JO by showing undue favour for gratification.

Further he had contacted Gungi Ankamma Rao for 87 times

during the period from 1.6.2013 to 26.12.2013, from the date of

written examination till final selection to the post of JO. He had

demanded money to get selected for the said post and since

Gungi Ankamma Rao did not pay money he was not selected.

Accused No.2 in furtherance of Criminal Conspiracy had with

accused Nos.1 and 3, contacted from his mobile phone to

another candidate Sengamsetti Ramakrishna and asked him to

pay Rs.5 lakhs for his selection for the post of JO. Since both

Gungi Ankamma Rao and Sengamsetti Ramakrishna were

refused to pay bribe, accused No.1 awarded lesser marks in the 11 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 interview and both of them have not been selected for the post of

JO. Apart from that, accused No.2 had also contacted other

candidates from his mobile phone to collect the bribe and get

them selected to the post of JO. 7. It is further alleged that accused No.2 had collected

Rs.3,00,400/- from accused No.3 Khaja Babu Sheik on 15.7.2013

and got selected by dishonest and fraudulent means by

depriving genuine and eligible candidates in the selection

process. Accused No.3 had fraudulently and dishonestly paid the

above said amount to accused No.2 to get select for the post of

JO and instructed one Sheik Samraj Ahmed, brother-in-law of

his brother Khader Sharief to deposit amount of Rs.1.00 lakh. In

turn, he had deposited an amount of Rs.1 lakh to his S.B.

account maintained with State Bank of India, Nododavale Branch

on 15.7.2013. Subsequently the said amount transferred to the

S.B. account held in the name of accused No.2 at SBI, Sandur

Branch, on different dates. 8. Further alleged that accused No.3, visited State Bank

of India, Eluru Bazaar Branch, West Godavari District, Andhra 12 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 Pradesh and deposited an amount of Rs.49,900/- into the SB

account No.31553895853 held in the name of Anwar Pasha got

transferred the same to the S.B. account of accused No.2

No.31147478026 held with SBI, Sandur Branch on 15.7.2013.

On the same day, accused No.3 visited Axis Bank, Eluru Branch,

Andhra Pradesh and deposited an amount of Rs.49,000/-,

Rs.48,000/-, Rs.44,000/-, Rs.7,600/- and Rs.1,500/- respectively

through BNA machine installed in the Branch transferred the said

amount to the SB account No.911010035645348 of accused No.2

maintained with Axis Bank, Sandur Branch. Accused No.3 had

dishonestly and fraudulently got selected as JO by paying

Rs.3,00,400/- to accused-No.2 as bribe. 9. The Investigating Officer on the basis of source

information of the above alleged facts registered the case in

R.C.19(A)/2013 on 23.12.2013 for the offence punishable under

Section 120(B) read with 420 Indian Penal Code Section and Section 8 , 13(2) read with 13(1) (d) of Prevention of Corruption

Act, 1988 for criminal conspiracy, cheating, taking illegal

gratification by corrupt or illegal means to influence public

servant and criminal misconduct. 10. On 2.1.2014, the Investigating Officer filed

application under Section 93 Cr.P.C. and prayed for search

warrant against accused No.1 to 3. After considering the said

application, a search warrant issued against accused persons.

On 12.7.2014, the Investigating Officer has produced the

accused No.2 with remand application and prayed for police

custody for three days. After going through the reasons made

out in the application, the Court has given accused No.2 for

police custody for three days as prayed by the Investigating

Officer. After three days, on 15.11.2014, accused No.2 produced

from police custody and he was remanded to J.C. Subsequently,

accused No.2 was granted bail on 19.12.2014. 11. The Investigating Officer on 29.12.2014, filed a sealed

cover containing certified copies of the statements of Gungi

Ankamma Rao and Singamasetty Ramakrishna recorded under Section.164 (5) of Cr.P.C. by 17th ACMM, Bengaluru and the

same ordered to be kept in safe custody. Thereafter, the

concerned Sheristedar of copying Branch was directed to open 14 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 the sealed cover and certified copies of the above statements

provided to Investigating Officer as prayed for. 12. Subsequently, the Investigating Officer, during the

investigation has collected documents from the Bank Officials,

independent witnesses and recorded their statements. After

completion of investigation, since the materials collected against

accused Nos.1 to 3 are sufficient to prosecute them, had filed the

charge sheet for the offences punishable under Sections 120-B

r/w.420 IPC and Sec.13(2) r/w.13 (1)(d) of Prevention of

Corruption Act, 1988 . 13. After filing charge sheet, the then learned Presiding

Officer took cognizance of the offences punishable under Sections

120-B r/w. Section 420 of Indian Penal Code 1860 and Section

420 of Indian Penal Code, against accused Nos.1 to 3, for the

offence under Section 8 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, took

cognizance against accused No.2 and cognizance of offences

under Sections 13(2) read with 13(1) (c) of Prevention of

Corruption Act, 1988 took against accused No.1. After taking 15 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 cognizance of the offences, Special Criminal Case ordered to be

registered against the accused Nos.1 to 3. 14. Subsequent to registering Special Criminal Case

against accused Nos.1 to 3, summons issued to them.

Afterwards, accused Nos.1 to 3 appeared before the Court

through different Counsel and accused Nos.1 and 3 were

enlarged on bail, since the accused No.2 was already granted bail

on 19.12.2014. The Copies of the charge sheet furnished to

the accused Nos.1 to 3 as provided under Section 207 of Cr.P.C. 15. The then learned Presiding Officer of this

Court has heard arguments of learned Counsels for accused

Nos.1 to 3 and learned Public Prosecutor on Hearing Before

Charge and also Interim Applications Nos.5 to 7 filed by the

accused under Section 227 Criminal Procedure Code, 1988.

Afterwards, dismissed the said applications and charges framed

against accused Nos.1 to 3 for the offence punishable under

Sections 120-B r/w.420 Indian Penal Code , Charge under Section

8 of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 framed only against

accused No.2 and Charge for the offence punishable under 16 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 Section 13(2) read with 13(c) of Prevention of Corruption Act,

1988 framed only against accused No.1. The charges read

over and explained to the accused Nos.1 to 3 in language known

to them, they pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried. 16. The prosecution has examined 65 witnesses as PWs.1

to 65, out of CWs.1 to 95. CWs.15 to 19, 21 to 24, 28, 57 to 70,

72, 74, 80, 87 to 89, 91 and 93 were not examined by the

prosecution. The documents in support of the prosecution case

are marked as Exs.P1 to P255, the documents for the defence of

the accused marked as Ex.D1 to D17. The Court witnesses being

Advocate and Bench Clerk, who knew Telugu and Kannada

language examined as CWs.1 and 2. Thereafter, the learned

Public Prosecutor closed the evidence of prosecution. 17. The incriminating circumstances in the evidence of

prosecution witnesses read over and explained to the accused

Nos.1 to 3 under Section 313 Criminal Procedure Code,1988.

They have denied the entire prosecution evidence and filed

written statement 313 (5) of Cr.P.C ., Accused No.2 in support of

his defence has filed Xerox copies of the documents. All the 17 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 accused have not chosen to lead any defence evidence on their

behalf. 18. Heard arguments of learned Public Prosecutor and

learned Counsel for accused Nos.1 to 3. 19. Perused the oral and documentary evidence placed by

the prosecution. 20. The points that would arise for my consideration are:- accused No.1 - Dharmendra Acharya is proper

 and in accordance with law? 2) Whether the prosecution is able to

 prove that the accused No.1, being a public

 servant as Assistant General Manager, in NMDC,

 Donimalai while entrusted the work of selection

 of candidates for the post of Junior Officers

 (Mining), entered into criminal conspiracy with 18 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 accused No.2 Appanna Boine Ramanjaneyulu

and accused No.3 Khajababu Sheik in the

matter of selection of candidates for the post of

JO (Mining) in the year 2013 and cheated the

N.M.D.C. and also some of the eligible candidates

applied for the post of Junior Officers (Mining)? 3) Whether the prosecution is able to

prove that the accused No.2 along accused No.3

acted as conduit between the candidates and

management for collecting bribe from many

candidates with a promise them to get selected

for the post of JO by influencing the officials of

NMDC and induced accused No.1? 4) Whether the prosecution is able to

prove that the accused No.2 dishonestly induced

accused No.3 and received illegal gratification

for himself and for accused No.1? dishonestly allowed accused Nos.2 and 3 and

some other candidates by way of make use of

the process of selection of candidates to the post

of Junior Officers (Mining) and abused his

position as a public servant and committed

criminal misconduct? Sections 120-B r/w.420 Indian Penal Code , 420

of Indian Penal Code committed by accused

Nos.1 to 3 and accused No.1 being a public

servant has also committed the offence

punishable and Section 13(2) read with Section

13(1)(c) of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988? 20 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 7) Whether the prosecution is able to

prove that the accused No.2 had agreed to

accept or attempted to obtain any gratification

from accused No.3 as a motive or reward for

inducing by corrupt or illegal means to any

public servant of NMDC to do or forbear to do

any official act and committed the offence

punishable under Section 8 of the Prevention of

Corruption Act, 1988? 8) What Order? 21. My findings on the above points are as follows:- 22. Point No.1:- The prosecution made allegation

against the accused No.1 - Dharmendra Acharya

(hereinafter referred as accused No.1), working as Assistant

General Manager, N.M.D.C. Limited, Donimalai is that, he

entered into Criminal Conspiracy with accused Nos.2 and 3 in the

recruitment process of selection of candidates for the post of JO

at N.M.D.C., Donimalai. The Sanction Order obtained against

accused No.1 is marked as Ex.P255. In support of the said

document, the witness Mr.Narendra Kothari, the then

Chairman and Managing Director of NMDC Limited is examined as

P.W.64. According to his evidence, he was the competent

authority for appointment and removal of employees, including

AGM and DGM in N.M.D.C. Limited. He has deposed that

information got about the alleged irregularities and illegalities

taken place after going through the report filed through CBI. The

Chief Vigilance Officer of NMDC, Hyderabad has placed the same

report of CBI before him for according Sanction to prosecute

accused No.1, the then AGM at NMDC, Donimalai. After receiving

the report, he had gone through the entire records and discussed

with Chief Vigilance Officer - Smt.Usha Chandrashekar, NMDC, 22 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 Hyderabad and accorded the Sanction to prosecute against

accused No.1. The said Sanction Order marked as Ex.P255 bears

his signature on all the pages, his signature at the last page

marked as Ex.P255(c). 23. In the cross-examination he has specifically stated

that after going through all the records accorded the Sanction.

However, he being responsible officer said to be gone through

the documents before according Sanction order, do not

remember to say the nature of all documents produced by CBI,

except call data records and statements of account of accused,

on the basis of which, accorded Sanction. But, the said call data

records produced before the Court marked as Exs.P208, 210 and

212 relates to the conversation between accused No.2 and other

candidates, which does not disclose the name and mobile number

of accused No.1. Likewise, the statement of accounts of accused

referred by PW64 also not relating to accused No.1, but they

are related to accused No.2 marked as Exs.P82 and 84 . Though

he has denied for the suggestion that put signature to the draft

Sanction produced by CBI Officer and no materials to prosecute

against accused No.1 and accorded Sanction at the instance of 23 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 CBI, the entire Sanction Order reveals about only investigation

conducted by the Investigating Officer and not opinion formed by

him before Sanction accorded to prosecute accused No.1. 24. It is true, PW64 was retired officer of NMDC, aged

about 61 years as on the date of his examination and he was not

ready to look into the documents, in spite of permission given by

the Court, which was noted in the deposition. Because, he might

have forgot to say nature of all the documents which were

perused by him before issuance of Sanction Order. But, he

should have looked into the documents and deposed regarding

Sanction Order, that too, when Court was permitted him to see

into the documents. However, he has referred relevant pages of

Sanction Order at Page No.15 of Ex.P255 related to monetary

transaction between accused No.1 with other accused Nos.2 and 3. He has also admitted that pages 13 and 14 does not reveal

call details of accused No.1 and pages 14 and 15 also does not

reveal about monetary transaction between accused No.1 and

other accused 2 and 3. 25. I have perused the relevant pages 13 to 15 of Ex.P255

as pointed out by PW64. It is relevant to point out that at page

No.13, the names of candidates, from whom mobile numbers

said to be collected by the accused No.2 and contacted them

from his mobile number 9449647614 and 9538877105

mentioned as follows: 14) A.Diwakar,Dy.Manager(Personnel) 9449249258 25 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 26. At page No.14 mentioned that accused No.3 being one

of the candidate paid an amount of Rs.3,00,400/- to accused

No.2 on 15.7.2013. The details of the said amount paid by him

mentioned as Rs.1,00,000/- deposited by brother-in-law of

accused No.3 namely Sheik Shamraj Ahmed to his SB Account

No.10925010583 with State Bank of India and transferred to the

SB account No.3114748026 of accused No.2 maintained at SBI

Sandur Branch. The amount of Rs.49,900/- deposited by

accused No.3 to the SB account of his father bearing

No.31553895853 and the same amount transferred to the

above-mentioned SB account of accused No.2. Again amount of

Rs.49,000/- Rs.48,000/-, 44,000/-, 7,600/-, 1,500/- deposited

by accused No.3 through BNA machine installed by Axis Bank,

Eluru Branch and transferred to the account of accused No.2. 27. It is made out from page No.15 that, brother-in-law of

accused No.3 Khadar Shariff deposited amount of Rs.1-lakh to

the SB Account of father of accused No.3 and subsequently the

same amount transferred to the SB Account of accused No.2.

The amount of Rs.40,000/- each on two occasions, Rs.20,000/-

deposited in cash to the account of accused No.2 through POS 26 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 machine, and Rs.1-lakh shown as online transfer to the account

of accused No.2 which was submitted by way of withdrawal form

by the account holder Sheik Shamraj Ahmed. All the above

mentioned different deposits made on 15.7.2013. 28. After perusal of above relevant pages, it is made out

that there is no mention regarding monetary transaction took

between accused No.1 with accused Nos.2 and 3. Further the

call details of accused No.1 also not mentioned in the Sanction

Order, though deposed by PW64. The above mentioned names

and mobile numbers of different candidates do not include either

the name or mobile number of accused No.1. The transaction

referred at the relevant pages mentioned above related to only

accused No.2 and 3 with others and not concerned to accused

No.1. Therefore, the prosecution ought to have established on

what basis, Sanction accorded by PW64 to prosecute against

accused No.1. Because the materials said to be produced before

the Sanctioning Authority, will not disclose anything against

accused No.1 to prosecute relating to the alleged irregularities

taken place during the recruitment process of JO at NMDC,

Donimalai. PW64 though has stated that the documents were 27 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 perused by him before according Sanction, the allegations made

against the accused No.1 shown in the Sanction Order are

nothing but replica of charge sheet without any supporting prima

facie materials against accused No.1. 29. The learned Public Prosecutor has submitted that

irregularity or non-application of mind by authority while granting

Sanction will not vitiate the prosecution case and fatal to the

case, if prosecution is able to produce the relevant proof of the

case made out in the charge sheet. Therefore, according to the

prosecution, Sanction is required under Section 196 Cr.P.C. and

19 of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 only to take cognizance

of the offence. However, submitted that any irregularity in

according sanction will not vitiate the proceedings under Section 19(4) of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 which

reads as follows: In relevant para it is discussed as, Where
 the public servant had abused the office which
 he held in the check period but had ceased to
 hold "that office" or was holding a different
 office, then a sanction would not be necessary.
 Where the alleged misconduct is in some
 different capacity than the one which is held at
 the time of taking cognizance, there will be no
 necessity to take the sanction. 31. The learned Counsel for accused No.1 has submitted

that Ex.P255 Sanction Order accorded by competent authority

does not say anything about allegations made against him in

proof of the offences alleged in the charge sheet. The Sanction

accorded by PW64 is without any application of mind, therefore, 29 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 the case instituted without any proper sanction must fail. In

support of the arguments relied on following citations:- "Sanctioning Authority must be shown to have
 applied its mind and no presumption
 regarding the satisfaction arising on facts.
 In absence of any valid sanction, the whole
 prosecution, held, invalid." The ratio laid down in the relevant para
 that the Sanction Order must contain any ground
 on which the satisfaction of the Sanctioning
 Authority was based and its mind applied. Further, it is incumbent on the prosecution to
 prove that a valid sanction has been granted
 by the Sanctioning Authority after it was satisfied
 that a case for sanction has been made out
 constituting the offence. This should be done in
 two ways : either 1) by producing the original
 sanction which itself contains the facts
 constituting the offence and the grounds of
 satisfaction, or 2) by adducing evidence aliunde
 to show the facts were placed before the
 Sanctioning Authority and the satisfaction arrived
 at by it. It is further discussed that any case instituted
 without a proper sanction must fail because
 this being a manifest difficulty in the
 prosecution, the entire proceedings are rendered
 void ab initio. (ii) 1991 SCC Online Bom 416: (1994) 1
 Bom CR 168 : 1992 Cri LJ 3064 Bombay High Court
 (Nagpur Bench) in the case of Anand S/o.Gopal Gurve Vs. State of Maharashtra . prosecution is to prove valid sanction granted by
 the Sanctioning Authority after it was satisfied
 for granting sanction has been made out
 constituting the offence. 32. After going through the dictum of law rendered by

Hon'ble Supreme Court on valid Sanction, I am of the view that

PW64 though said to be the Competent Authority, has not at all

applied his mind while according Sanction under Ex.P255, as it

will not contain any satisfactory reasons to prosecute against 31 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 accused No.1. Therefore, it can be fairly said that without

applying his mind accorded Sanction as per Ex.P255, in absence

of any valid and satisfactory reasons to prosecute against

accused No.1 for the alleged offences punishable under Sections

120-B read with 420 Indian Penal Code and Section 13(2) read

with 13(1) (c) or (d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act . Hence,

I am of the opinion that, the prosecution has failed to prove that

Sanction obtained to prosecute against accused No.1 is in

accordance with law and I answer this point in the 'Negative.' 33. Point Nos.2 to 7 :- All these points are interlinked

with each other, therefore are taken together for common

discussion and consideration, to avoid repetition of facts. 34. The case alleged against the accused No.1 who was

AGM, Personnel, has abused his official position, dishonestly and

got recruited accused Nos.2 and 3 for the post of JO at NMDC

and shown undue advantage to both of them. In order to

prove the allegation made against accused No.1, the prosecution

has produced both oral and documentary evidence which

requires to be discussed in detail. 35. The prosecution made allegation against the accused

Nos.1 to 3 that they conspired and entered into an illegal

agreement to do an unlawful act, for which alleged the offence

committed punishable under Section 120(B) Indian Penal Code.

Therefore, when the Criminal Conspiracy alleged against all the

accused, prosecution must prove the ingredients required under Section 120(A) of Indian Penal Code. The specific allegation

made against accused No.1 that he being a public servant

working as Assistant General Manager at N.M.D.C. along with

accused Nos.2 and 3 made some irregularities while selecting

candidates of JO for N.M.D.C. by receiving illegal gratification

from them for selection of the said post and selected both

accused Nos.2 and 3 for the said post and all the accused

cheated N.M.D.C., Donimalai. 36. At the first instance, it is relevant to point out the

recruitment process of JO, taken at N.M.D.C., Donimalai, during

2012-13. The files relating to recruitment process identified by

P.W.1 - Bijaya Kumar Khamari, marked as Exs.P1 and 2. He

was the Manager (Personnel) at N.M.D.C., Donimalai, Bellary 33 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 District during 2012, was associated with the recruitment process

for the post of JO, at the same time, accused No.1 Dharmendra

Acharya was the HOD of Personnel Department. He has stated

that Sanction Letter was received for recruitment of 31 posts of

JO from the Head Office, Executive Director - Mr.L.N.Mathur and

he had marked the said letter to accused No.1 for the purpose of

processing recruitment procedure, which is not disputed by

accused No.1. 37. The evidence deposed by PW1 that as instructed by

accused No.1, he along with P.W.29-Diwakar were prepared note

sheets, which was to be corrected by accused No.1 himself

before its finalization. Further, he has stated about the question

paper blank format sent through e-mail message by Mr.Amith

Singh, the Deputy Manager of Mining who was said to be asked

him to discuss with accused No.1 regarding provision of

additional sheets in the answer booklet and the e-mail message

received by him marked as Ex.P3. After getting e-mail message

with attachments, he has handed over the same to accused No.1

for further needful action. Though he was not aware of further

action taken in that regard, was present inside the hall during the 34 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 interview as directed by asked by S.K.Verma, General Manager,

(Production) and accused No.1. He has also deposed about the

procedure followed by each committee member who were given

individual assessment sheets for each candidate and they were

required to give marks for each of them. P.W.1 used to collect

the assessment sheets from each of the committee members and

put them in six separate folders. After completing interview he

had kept assessment sheets in envelopes and handed over to the

custody of accused No.1. The envelope in which assessment

sheets were put by him identified before the Court as Ex.P4 and

assessment sheet marked as Ex.P5. 38. He further deposed about the original documents of

the candidates verified by two of the Officers of NMDC prior to

interview and they prepared check list of each candidate and

forwarded with Photostat copies of documents to the interview

committee. He has further deposed that in few cases, accused

No.1 asked him to add experience in checklist as per documents

after scrutiny of the documents by two of the Officers. The Office

Memorandum marked as Ex.P6 and seizure memo under which

the documents seized by CBI marked as Ex.P7. The letter 35 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 addressed to Kendriya Vidyalaya, Donimalai identified by him and

marked as Ex.P8. 39. PW1 has further stated that after written examination,

the candidates who were passed called for interview which was

fixed on 21.7.2013. He has identified 43 checklists shown to him

marked as Exs.P9 to 51 and deposed that as per the instruction

given by accused No.1, he has added experience in the checklists

relating to the candidates, namely accused No.3 Khaja Babu

Sheik, Asit Kumar Behra, Gungi Ankamma Rao, Bijay Kumar

Munda, Ghanashyam Patel, Prabeen Kumar Das, P.Thanesh

Kumar and Anadi Mahapatra. The check list relating to said

candidates were marked as Exs.P15, 21 to 23, 33, 37, 39 and 40

respectively. However, in the experience column, common

marks of two printed in the checklist, the same or lesser than

that was to be given by each member of Interview Committee. 40. In the cross-examination he has identified the

documents confronted to him are Office Order of NMDC dated

9.7.2009 and Recruitment Policy and Procedures(Revised) by

NMDC are marked as Exs.D1 and D2. The said Office Order 36 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 Ex.D1, in which, referred the Board Meeting held on 29.5.2009

approved the revised NMDC recruitment policy and procedure for

direct recruitment in the Company signed by Executive Director

(Personnel), copies of the same sent to different sections

including General Manager, Donimalai. The document Ex.D2

reveals about Rules and Procedures with policy objectives of

NMDC recruitment process contains the powers given to the

appointing authorities for the recruitment of different posts

classified under different category. It is also contained the

details of classification of post, mode of recruitment and

procedure. 41. The copy of Notification issued by N.M.D.C.,

Donimalai, called for the post of JO also identified by him marked

as Ex.D3. Under the said Notification, the Educational

Qualification and other requirements noted for the post of JO

(Mining) are as follows: The important general condition mentioned
under Sl.No.4 that the reservation of posts for
S.C./S.T./O.B.C. will be as per the
Government of India directives. The OBC 38 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 certificate submitted by the candidate should
 have been obtained within six months before
 the closing date of receiving of application. The specific instructions given under Sl.No.13
 that, the candidates must attach a self-attested
 copy of valid II class Mines Manager Certificate
 of Competency/Foreman Certificate of
 Competency restricted to Open Cast
 Metalliferrous Mines, otherwise applications will
 not be considered. 42. Further, the separate Committee constituted to

prepare shortlist of the eligible candidates also admitted by him.

However, the said Shortlist Committee constituted by

Executive Director of N.M.D.C., along with Mr.C.P.Sinha,

Vinaykumar and Mr.S.Chatterjee as its members. He has

admitted no objections raised by any of the members of

committee while correction effected in some of the above

mentioned checklists. According to him, the checklists were put

in the envelopes in the presence of committee members and he

is not having any knowledge about entire process of recruitment

was in accordance with the procedure of N.M.D.C., Donimalai. 39 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 The important evidence deposed by him that the accused No.1

was only a part of the interview committee for recruitment of

candidates and there were five other members in the committee

along with him, out of them, some of them were seniors to

accused No.1. The said evidence infers that no major part took

by accused No.1 in the recruitment of Junior Officer (Mining) at

N.M.D.C. Though he has admitted each member of the

committee were to be given marks to each of the candidate,

independently, he do not know anything about giving of marks

by each of the member. However, his entire evidence will

establish that the procedure as per Rules of the N.M.D.C.

followed while recruiting JO. 43. The process of verification of documents after

receiving the applications for the post of Junior Officer (Mining)

made by officials PW2 and PW29 being members of Document

Verification Committee. P.W.2 - G.Ramakrishnan who

served as Manager (Personnel) Industrial Relations at N.M.D.C.,

Donimalai from 2008 to 2015 has deposed that accused No.1

was the H.O.D. of Personnel Department. This witness also

associated with the recruitment process during 2013 for the post 40 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 of JO. Though he was one of the invigilators during written test,

also given work of comparing original documents with the copies

enclosed with the applications during the interview process along

with P.W.29 - A.Diwakar. He has deposed about the procedure

followed while verifying original documents with the copies

enclosed to the applications and afterwards they have to make

entries in the checklists provided by PW.1. After verifying the

documents and making entries they were handed over to one of

the assistants of PW1. He had also gone through all the original

documents furnished by the candidates and checklists identified

as Exs.P9 to 51. He is not able to say who were all prepared

those checklists, but some of the checklists were prepared by

him and others were prepared by his colleague PW29. He has

identified the checklists prepared by him under Ex.P22 in respect

of candidates Sri Gungi Ankamma Rao and Ex.P32 relates to

another candidate Sri Ramakrishna Singham Shetty. Further he

has found some changes were effected with regard to experience

in the checklists without his knowledge and the same are

identified as Exs.P21, 22, 23, 37 and 40. Those checklists are

relating to candidates Asif Kumar Behra, Gungi Ankamma Rao, 41 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 Bijay Kumar Munda, Praveen Kumar Doss and Anadi Mahapatra,

respectively. 44. PW29 - A.Diwakar, working as Deputy Manager

(Personnel) NMDC, has given the work of comparing the

documents along with PW2. He has deposed about Notification

issued for recruitment of JO in the month of December-2012 and

the applications received by the Manager (Personnel) of NMDC.

According to him, the procedure followed after receiving 300

applications for the said post note drafted and instructed him to

initiate the proposals. The files relating to above recruitment

process identified as Exs.P1 and 2. Afterwards, the Scrutiny

Committee has scrutinized applications and prepared short list

of the candidates. The report submitted by Scrutiny Committee

to the Executive Director - L.N.Mathur, who has forwarded the

report to accused No.1 - the then AGM (Personnel), thereafter

accused No.1 forwarded the report to PW1 Bijay Kumar Khamari,

the Manager (Personnel). Afterwards draft proposal was

prepared and given to this witness relating to the proposal to

conduct written examination for the post of JO. After approval

of report, the call letters were sent to the short listed candidates 42 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 and written test was fixed on 23.6.2013 at Kendriya Vidyalaya,

Donimalai. The written test was conducted by the Evaluation

Committee and another short list of eligible candidates was

prepared for the interview. He has further stated about

interview fixed on 21.7.2013 and 25 candidates were selected for

the interview. 45. He has further deposed about Interview Committee

formed consisting of six members, out of them, accused No.1

was one of the members. He along with his colleague PW2 were

entrusted the work of verifying documents of the candidates.

Accordingly, both of them verified documents and handed over

the checklist for verification of documents. After verifying

original documents, put the tick mark, if find the particulars are

genuine. They were also noted the remarks in the checklist of the

candidates who have failed to furnish particulars prescribed by

the Department. Both of them verified the documents and

entered the period of experience in the relevant column of

experience of candidates. 46. PW29 has identified checklist relating to accused No.3 - Khaja Babu Shaik, marked as Ex.P15,in which, the remarks

made as "Diploma year wise mark sheet and experience original

certificate for the period from 5.11.2011 to 11.7.2002, 1.4.2003

to 1.12.2003 were not produced." The said remarks identified

and marked as Ex.P15(a). The cross verification made by

Personnel Manager in Ex.P15 as original experience certificate

not produced for one year 9 months, experience of 8 years 8

months marked as Ex.P15(b). The checklist Ex.P23 contains the

experience of one Bijay Kumar Munda shown as 5 years and it

was verified by the Personnel Manager, who has shown the

experience of the concerned candidate as 7 years 3 months 9

days in blue ink. The remarks entered by him in Ex.P39

checklist relating to P.Thanesh Kumar shown as "original

experience certificate not produced, but shown in application for

the period 7.2.2011 to 13.6.2013 on which produced true copy" 47. In the cross-examination he has admitted that the

note sheets in Ex.P2 forwarded by him and reference made

relating to note sheets were prepared by the Manager

(Personnel). Admittedly, the said note sheets were placed before

Executive Director and approved by him subsequently. It is also

admitted that entire process of selection of candidates has been

shown in the document Ex.P2 contains the notes of all the

committees constituted in selection of candidates. He has further

admitted that the verification of original documents with the

documents furnished by the candidates along with application

verified by him and PW2. Admittedly during verification of

documents, if any discrepancy found, the same was to be noted

in the checklist. 48. He has further admitted that the service certificate of

one G.Ahil Rao S/o.Koteswar Rao annexed to Ex.P52 marked as

Ex.D11 is not relating to PW3 Gungi Ankamma Rao. The

correction made in the category column of Ex.P9 where word 45 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 'OBC' removed and word 'General' inserted by one

Ramakrishnan, is admitted and said remarks marked as Ex.D-12.

Admittedly, checklist Ex.P9 pertains to the candidate Standly

Kanikraj, who had furnished copy of income and caste certificate

issued by Tahsildar, Sandur Taluk, which is confronted to this

witness and marked as Ex.D.13. The remark noted by official

Ramakrishnan in Ex.P37 in respect of experience for 1 year 8

months 7 days is marked as Ex.D-14. Likewise, the experience

certificate issued by Government of India in favour of candidate

Prabeen Kumar Das is admitted and marked as Ex.D-15,

another certificate issued in favour of the same candidate

marked as Ex.D-16. PW.29 has admitted that during the

interview he did not enter into interview hall and no personal

knowledge about interview process regarding selection of

candidates. He has denied for the suggestion that no documents

verified either by himself or by another official Ramakrishnan. 49. The evidence deposed by P.W.29 in chief-examination

itself shows that after Notification accused No.2 Appanna Boine

Ramanjaneyulu contacted him through his colleague Rajkumar

Manda, in connection with submitting documents along with 46 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 application for the post of Junior Officer (Mining). However, he

has deposed the attempts made by accused No.2 to contact this

witness later, for which, he had refused infers that accused No.2

tried to contact the officials to get job of JO at NMDC, Donimalai. 50. During the process for recruitment of Junior Officer

(Mining), many different committees were formed and the work

entrusted to him to look after various stages of the recruitment.

One of the committees formed to scrutiny and short listing of

the applications namely Scrutiny and Short Listing Committee

consisting of three officers of NMDC worked in different capacity

namely CBP Sinha, Vinaykumar and S.Chatterji, the officers of

NMDC examined as PWs.13, 11 and 7 respectively. Their

evidence is to be considered in order to make out whether the

documents were properly scrutinized and short list of candidates

made in accordance with the procedure. Therefore, the evidence

of above witnesses discussed in brief. 51. One of the member of above said Committee

Subhasihis Chatterjee, Assistant General Manager (Personnel),

Donimalai Complex, NMDC, examined as PW7. He has 47 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 deposed that the Scrutiny Committee was approved by Executive

Director and the accused No.1 was heading the Personnel

Department. The Report of Scrutiny Committee identified by him

marked as Ex.P1(a) and his signature marked as Ex.P1(b). He

has stated that some discrepancies found when the file was

shown by CBI and deposed about the nature of the answer

sheets, the first page of which contains two parts, the first part

filled with name and roll number and in the second part only the

number. The first part was to be torn out after completion of

written examination and remaining answer script will be given to

the evaluator to avoid any biasness. According to him, the said

procedure was not followed by Personnel Department and one of

the answer scripts shown to him marked as Ex.P53. It is further

deposed about no separate committee was formulated for setting

up the question papers and Selection Committee did not disclose

about the place where the question papers kept before

examination. He has produced documents relating to

recruitment process seized under seizure memo marked as

Ex.P64. 52. In the cross-examination he has admitted that same

designation as to that of accused No.1 held by him during the

relevant point of time. He has referred the name of Gungi

Ankamma Rao at Sl.No.95, who did not produce OBC Certificate

in Central Format and he was short listed, in the relevant

column, his age also mentioned below 35 years. According to

him, the recruitment rules provided to produce OBC certificate, at

later stage only for the candidates comes under OBC category,

when the copy of the same is not enclosed along with the

application. He is aware of the said procedure as frequently

working in connection with recruitment process. He has admitted

that the candidates shown at Sl.Nos.62, 112, 174, 211, 269, 292

and 329 are not short listed as they did not furnish OBC

certificates in Central Format and also crossed the age of 35

years. 53. However, he had no personal knowledge about what

was happened in recruitment process and his signature identified

in Ex.P1 marked as Ex.D6. He has denied for the suggestion that

his involvement in bribery case in collusion with PW3 and favour

shown to him and other candidates. The noting found on the 49 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 application form of PW3 Ex.P52 confronted to him and marked as

Ex.D7. He had no knowledge about what was transpired in

recruitment process and also not received any instructions from

Executive Director with regard to written examination. 54. Another member of Scrutiny Committee is PW.11 -

Vinay Kumar worked in different capacity at NMDC, Donimalai

from 2002 to 2016 served as Assistant General Manager till

December-2013. He was associated with recruitment process for

the post of JO and deposed that he being Mining Engineer had

seen the technical part relating to Degree, Diploma and Statutory

experience in the applications. He has identified the document

Ex.P1(a) list of candidates prepared by the Scrutiny Committee

and his signature marked as Ex.P1(c). The documents which

are not in the Statutory Format found in Ex.P52, confronted to

him in the cross-examination and marked as Ex.D-8, D-8(a)

and D-8(b). Ex.D8 is Xerox copy of the Service Certificate

issued by the Managing Director of S.A.P. Granites and Stones

Crushers, Raichur, in the name of PW3 - Gungi Ankamma Rao,

who worked as Site in-charge in the said Company from

3.12.2009 till 30.1.2012. Ex.D8(a) the Xerox copy of the Service 50 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 Certificate issued to him by the Personnel Manager for

Hindustan Construction Company Ltd., Udupi District,

Karnataka and mentioned the total period of employment as

Senior Supervisor(Mining) from 22.2.2012 to 25.6.2012.

Ex.D8(b) is the appointment letter issued to G.A.Rao for the post

of Sales Engineer in Keltech Energies Ltd., Bengaluru. The

said documents proves the experience of PW3 in Mining and as

Sales Engineer who had lesser experience for the post of JO

(Mining) at NMDC as per the requirement of Notification.

Further he has denied undue favour shown to PW3 Gungi

Ankamma Rao while scrutinizing the documents. 55. Another member of same committee is PW.13 -

C.B.P.Sinha, worked as General Manager at NMDC, Donimalai

Complex was associated with the recruitment process for the

post of JO. He was also one of the member for both Overseeing

Examination Committee consisting of three members and

Evaluation Committee for evaluation of answer sheets, has

identified the scrutiny report Ex.P1(a) and his signature marked

as Ex.P1(d). He had scrutinized documents on technical aspect

along with PW11 Mr.Vinay Kumar. In the cross-examination he 51 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 has deposed about no specific instructions issued to the members

of Scrutiny Committee to look after particular part in the

applications and also no instructions for relaxation of the

conditions of the notification. He has identified handwriting of

PW11 marked as Ex.D7. 56. Apart from the Scrutiny and Short listing committee

formed during the recruitment process for the post of Junior

Officer (Mining), the important Interview Committee formed

consisting of six members, including accused No.1. Vipin

Kumar M.B. one of the members, examined as PW10 worked

as Manager, Mining, at Donimalai during 2012 and subsequently

worked as Senior Manager in HRD Department during 2013. He

was also associated with the recruitment process for the post of

JO, N.M.D.C, Donimalai as one of the Interview Committee

members. He has deposed that accused No.1 used to tell

members of interview committee consisting of six members to

give marks to the candidates regarding their experience,

accordingly, the committee members used to give marks to the

candidates towards their experience. However, it is already

pointed out in the column of experience the fixed marks 'two' 52 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 printed, therefore, the alleged instructions given by accused

No.1 to give marks towards experience is not acceptable. 57. Further he has identified 41 assessment sheets

marked as Ex.P67. The assessment sheet of the candidate PW3 - Gungi Ankamma Rao, marked as Ex.P67(a). He has deposed

that accused No.1 has particularly instructed him not to give

any marks to PW.3 towards his experience as lack of sufficient

experience in the field. The lesser experience rather than

required under Notification noted on the application of PW3

implies that he had no experience of five years in Mining field,

which was also admitted by PW3 in the evidence. The

Compilation found in the file Ex.P2 marked as Ex.P2(a). 58. He has further deposed about the interview process,

in which, initially assessment sheets were given to them by one

of the officials of Personnel Department and they were asked to

give marks only after asking maximum questions to the

candidates. PW.10 being Mining Engineer, was asked to put

maximum questions to candidates. He along with one S.K.Verma

used to ask few questions to the candidates regarding subject 53 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 and all the interview committee members to give equal marks

with regard to experience of the candidates. He has clearly

stated that since they were not access to the documents

pertaining to the qualification and experience of the candidates,

accused No.1 used to tell them marks to be given about

experience of the candidates. Therefore, the committee

members used to give marks to the experience of the candidates

on the information given by accused No.1, who was head of

Personnel Department. 59. In the cross-examination he has stated about no

knowledge about contents of Notification for the post of JO and

required experience was Open Cost Metalliferrous Mining.

Though he did not go through the documents of Gungi

Ankamma Rao to make out his experience, has clearly stated

that he did not show undue favour to him and treated all the

candidates equally, while giving marks to their experience.

He is aware of the fact that assessment made by each of the

committee members during the interview should be kept in

secret till the declaration of results. The undue favour shown

to Gungi Ankamma Rao, who was known to him since both of 54 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 them working as Sales Representative of a Explosive Company

by this witness is denied. However, he knew him since he was

working in the Plastic section of the said company. He being

one of the members of interview committee deposed about

procedure followed in the interview. 60. PW.12 - Laxmi Narayan Mathur, who was served

as Executive Director at NMDC, Donimalai being head of project

has deposed about the files processed for recruitment of JO

entrusted to HOD, Personnel Department headed by accused

No.1 during the relevant period in the year 2013. Admittedly, the

files Exs.P1 and P2 are pertains to said recruitment process and

the written test was fixed on 23.6.2013. He has deposed that

he, along with his personal assistant Veeranna were prepared

question paper one day prior to written test. Admittedly,

accused No.1 was one of the members of Overseeing Committee

along with one C.B.P.Sinha and others. 61. He has clearly stated did not approve any proposal

for obtaining the mobile phone numbers of candidates on the

answer sheets. But the document Ex.P1 at page 13/N - N-59 55 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 reveals that it was proposed to intimate the selected candidates

for interview by SMS through the website with the mobile

number 9481161595 of PW1 D.K.Khamari, Manager Personnel,

and it was approved by him on 25.6.2013. He has identified his

signature put after approval of the proposal marked as Ex.D9, in

the file Ex.P1 which clearly implies that he himself had approved

the proposal placed before him as follows: Therefore he cannot show ignorance of the said proposal

approved by him and also intimation to the passed candidates to

attend oral interview sent through SMS, for which the names and

mobile numbers of candidates required. Therefore, accused No.1

being head of Personnel Department might have informed to get 56 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 the mobile numbers of each candidate who were attended written

examination. 62. In the cross-examination he has admitted that the

entire process for the post of JO was conducted in accordance

with the recruitment policy and procedure. Though he has denied

the recruitment process not entrusted to any of the particular

officer, the different Committees formed to look after different

stages of recruitment, proves that no official of NMDC, was

entrusted with recruitment process. He has clearly stated that

no complaint against any of the members of the committee

received by him, which implies that the work entrusted to them

has been done properly and they have followed the procedure of

NMDC. Therefore, he might not have interfere in the recruitment

process headed by different committees. 63. He has also identified the file Ex.P2 relating to

recruitment process of JO which was entrusted to HOD,

Personnel Department. The said file contains the details of the

25 candidates who were called for pre-employment medical

examination for consideration for appointment as JO (Mining). 57 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 The names of 19 candidates mentioned in unreserved category

consisting of General, OBC and SC category. The names of two

persons shown in SC category and one of the persons shown

under ST category, three candidates mentioned under OBC

category. The said proposal put up before him on 5.9.2013 by

accused No.1 as Manager Personnel and it was approved on the

same day. The file Ex.P2 contains the correspondence letters

sent to the selected candidates with terms and conditions, which

is not disputed in any manner. 64. PW.15 - Rajkumar, Assistant General Manager

(Mechanic) NMDC, has deposed about recruitment process for

the post of JO took during 2013 at Donimalai Complex. He was

one of the interview committee members containing six members

along with Accused No.1 was present on 21.7.2013 with other

members in the interview hall. At that time, accused No.1 was

briefed them as to the method of giving marks to each of the

candidates. The assessment sheets were given to all the

members, afterwards committee members awarded marks

individually based on the performance of each candidate. He has 58 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 identified assessment sheets Exs.P5 and 67. He has specifically

deposed that as per the instructions given by accused No.1, he

along with other committee members awarded marks towards

experience of each candidate and afterwards handed over the

assessment sheets to Personnel Department. But after one

week, as informed by the Personnel Department, they gathered

at VTC Hall, where the assessment sheets were taken out from

the envelope and instructions were given to each members for

Compilation. One of the committee members Vipin Kumar,

objected as to why the assessment sheets were not sealed soon

after interview. However, he has stated about the Compilation

was done without any objections and all the members put their

signatures on the Compilation sheet marked as Ex.P2(a). 65. In the cross-examination has admitted all the

committee members given guidelines as to awarding of marks

towards experience of each candidate. He has also admitted that

the Compilation was done after all the committee members

confirmed about marks awarded towards experience of the

candidates. Therefore, it infers that all the members were 59 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 consented and signed for the Compilation in presence of each

other without raising any objection. 66. PW16 - S.K.Verma, General Manager (Production)

NMDC was aware of the recruitment process of JO as he was with

the Chairman of interview committee. He has deposed about

procedure followed while giving marks to the candidates in the

interview based on their performance. He took help of accused

No.1 while giving marks for experience. He has identified

assessment sheets Exs.P5 and 67. He has also deposed that

after completion of the interview, he along with accused No.1 put

all the assessment sheets in an envelope and sealed and signed

it. He has identified envelope Ex.P4 bears his signature and

signature of accused No.1 marked as Ex.P4(a) and 4(b)

respectively. In the cross-examination he has admitted that

statement given before CBI, in which stated that experience

certificate should be in the format of DGMS and same format

approved, but he is not aware whether experience certificate of

DGMS format alone was considered by competent authority prior

to interview. 67. P.W.39 - D.C.S.Murthy, worked as DGM (Finance)

MNDC, Donimalai is also one of the members of the Interview

Committee has deposed that accused No.1 explained all of them

about the procedure of the interview and awarding of marks

based on the earlier experience of each candidate. Therefore, as

per his direction, this witness along with other committee

members awarded marks in respect of experience of the

candidates. The assessment sheets given to the committee

members on which they awarded marks to each candidate

marked as Ex.P67 were handed over to accused No.1 and PW1 -

Bijay Khamari. He has also stated that after one week from the

date of interview, all the members including accused No.1

gathered in the VTC Conference hall for the purpose of

compilation of marks of each candidate. Though he has deposed

that at the same time, one of the members, Vipin Kumar has

raised objection regarding no knowledge about sealed envelope

and signatures put by accused No.1 and S.K.Verma,

subsequently the Compilation was made with the consent of all

the members. In the cross-examination he has denied that

statement given before CBI that accused No.1 alone has awarded

marks for the category of earlier experience of each candidate. 61 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 However, the assessment sheets marked as EX.P67 discloses

each member of the Interview Committee had given separate

marks towards separate skills of candidates attended for

interview. He has admitted the procedure of giving marks

towards previous relevant experience shown at Sl.No.4 of the

assessment sheets of each candidate. However, this witness has

deposed that after applying mind he gave marks to candidates

relating to their experience infers that no marks given by him on

the information of accused No.1. 68. The name of Mark Lobo, Sr. Manager (Mechanic)

also shown as another member of Interview Committee, but he is

not made as witness in the charge sheet. Therefore, the

evidence deposed by other members of interview committee,

apart from accused No.1, whose evidence discussed above has

clearly establish the procedure followed by all of them as per

rules of N.M.D.C. during interview of the candidates, who were

called for interview after passed the written examination. 69. PW.14 - C.Veeranna, Personal Assistant to the

Executive Director, has deposed about typed the matter given in 62 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 manuscript and handed over the same to Executive Director,

thereafter took out printout and handed over pen drive to

C.B.P.Sinha. 70. PW.33 - B.K.Madhav, Assistant General Manager,

NMDC Limited, Bacheli District, Dantewada has deposed that as

per the direction of General Manager, Chief Vigilance Officer,

Hyderabad and General Manager, NMDC Ltd., Bacheli, he had

visited CBI office at Bengaluru and produced the documents: 1) True copy of recruitment of

 Jr.Officer (Mining) Trainee of Bailadila Iron Ore

 Mines, Bacheli Complex, NMDC file captioned as

 File No.57 D5/Per/R&P/JO(Min)Tr/2013,

 containing 289 sheets and note sheets 1 to 11. 2) True copy of written test marks dated

 15.9.2013, interview marks and merit list

 containing 22 sheets. 71. He has identified the said documents marked as

Ex.P111 and his signature marked as Ex.P111(a). The written 63 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 test marks shown at Sl.No.2 in seizure memo marked as

Ex.P112. He has deposed about the procedure of Employment

Notification published as per approval of Head Office, Hyderabad

in official website NMDC Ltd. After receiving applications in

prescribed format they were scrutinized, thereafter written test

conducted by the concerned committee constituted by Appointing

Authority. The said Authority itself decided the cut off marks of

written test, thereafter eligible candidates were called for

interview. The merit list prepared on the basis of written test

marks and interview marks, roaster system also followed while

preparing merit list. Thereafter, pre-employment letter issued to

the concerned candidates. In the cross-examination he has

admitted the appointing authority shall have the power to control

and module the entire process of recruitment under relevant

provisions of recruitment and promotion rules. 72. The witness Sudhanshu Verma, examined as PW.34

was working as Deputy Manager (Personnel) NMDC Ltd., Kirandul

deputed to attend CBI Office at Bengaluru. Accordingly, he has

visited the said office on 19.9.2014, and produced the file 64 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 containing documents marked as Ex.P113, his signature marked

as Ex.P113(a). He is aware of the procedure adopted in

appointment of JO in NMDC Ltd., Kirandul, Dantewada District.

He has also deposed about Notification issued as per procedure

and process followed to scrutiny the applications received from

eligible candidates and thereafter written test was fixed. He has

further stated that the first sheet of question-cum-answer sheet

contains two parts, upper portion contains roll number of the

candidate, question booklet number, signature of invigilator and

code number box. The lower portion contains instructions to the

candidates, invigilators signature and code number box. After

written examination, the answer sheets were identified on the

basis of code numbers. And upper portion of each question-cum-

answer booklet were to be separated and placed in a sealed

cover. After valuation of the written test papers, coded marks

given to the evaluators, thereafter obtained their signatures on

answer sheets. However, according to him, no such procedure

of taking signature of NMDC Officials in answer sheets followed in

any of the recruitment for the appointment of JO. He has

admitted the Appointing Authority has control over the

recruitment process and further admitted that the question 65 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 papers for written test prepared by the competent authority and

independent committees will discharge their duties as per the

rules and regulations. 73. The question papers for the written test conducted on

23.6.2013 were prepared by Amit Kumar Singh, Manager,

NMDC, Donimalai, as directed by Executive Director and

General Manager (Production) NMDC Limited, Donimalai is

examined as PW38. According to his evidence, he has

prepared draft questions and handed over to Executive Director,

thereafter, he was called by him and instructed to prepare draft

layout format of question papers in the presence of accused

No.1. Accordingly, he prepared draft question paper and e-

mailed to the Manager - Bijay Khamari. He was again called in

the office of Executive Director prior to one day of examination,

asked to prepare two sets of question paper. Therefore, he had

prepared two sets of question paper in his own handwriting and

handed over to Executive Director, Mr.L.N.Mathur. Afterwards,

the question paper got typed with the assistance of one Veeranna

and he had checked the final question paper in computer system.

At the same time, accused No.1 came with Mr.Patnayak and 66 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 Mr.C.B.P.Sinha and took question paper from computer system

in pen drive. 74. He has further deposed that on the next day of

examination, he was called by Executive Director and when he

went to his office Sri M.N.Singh and Sourabh Chandra were also

present. They asked him to evaluate question papers in the

conference hall of the Executive Director, NMDC Ltd., Donimalai

in the presence of officers of Personnel Department. The

accused No.1 and Bijay Khamari were handed over the sealed

box containing question cum answer sheets. Thereafter, this

witness along with others evaluated all the papers and they were

asked to fill the marks in the list given by him, accordingly they

filled the marks of each candidate and signed on the list. The

members were called in the office of Executive Director and box

taken out of locker of Finance Department and it was handed

over to accused No.1. The key answer sheets containing 10

pages identified by him marked as Ex.P.117. The documents

handed over by him under the seizure memo dated 8.12.2014

marked as Ex.P118. The certificate issued under Section 65(B) of Indian Evidence Act is marked as Ex.P119 and his signature 67 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 marked as Ex.P119(a). He has denied for the suggestion that

no statement given to CBI stating that accused No.1 and

C.B.P.Sinha have taken question papers from computer to the

pen drive. 75. It is admitted fact that candidates who were applied

for the post of JO called for written test on 23.6.2013, thereafter,

the eligible candidates were called for interview. The checklist

also prepared as per Exs.P9 to 51 reveal about the category

under which each of candidates appeared for written

examination. Admittedly, prior to the written examination,

Notification was issued calling for the eligible candidates for the

post of Junior Officer (Mining), which is already mentioned

above. 76. Further, it is made out from the evidence of

prosecution witnesses that the teachers of Kendriya Vidyalaya

also deputed as invigilators during the written examination on

23.6.2013 took for the post of Junior Officer (Mining) at NMDC.

Prior to that the NMDC authority requested the Principal of

Kendriya Vidyalaya, Donimalai through letter, to provide 68 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 accommodation and to depute invigilators for conducting

examination at Kendriya Vidyalaya building. The said letter is

marked as Ex.P63. It is made out from the evidence of PW6

Nirmala Kumari M., the Principal of Kendriya Vidyalaya that as

per the request of NMDC, Donimalai, in total, 12 invigilators and

two staff were deputed by her under Ex.P8. She has deposed

that they were in-charge of the said examination and instructions

given to NMDC officials to act as invigilators to sign on the covers

and question-cum-answer sheets. She has further deposed

about instructions given to them to obtain names and mobile

numbers of the candidates. In the cross-examination she has

admitted that she was not part of the examination conducted and

said that there were two invigilators in each room, one from

NMDC and another from Kendriya Vidyalaya. 77. The NMDC officials acted as invigilators were asked

to put their signatures on all the question-cum-answer sheets

and they were examined as PWs.36, 37, 49 and 50 respectively.

PW.36 - Mohammed Nijas, who was promoted as Dy.Manager

(Finance) at NMDC, Donimalai, acted as invigilator on 23.6.2013

for written examination conducted for the post of JO at Kendriya 69 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 Vidyalaya. He had deposed that received sealed covers

containing question papers-cum-answer sheets from Overseeing

Committee. After distributed the question papers to the

candidates, he had noticed in the answer sheet there is space for

roll number, name of the candidate, father's name and also

signature of the candidate as well as invigilators. He has

specifically deposed, out of both invigilators from NMDC Ltd. and

school teacher of Kendriya Vidyalaya, the invigilators of NMDC

only were instructed to put signature on the answer sheet. He

has further stated that accused No.1 had explained the

procedure and to put signature in the answer sheet only by the

NMDC invigilators. According to him, during examination,

Mr.V.M.Basha, one of the members of Overseeing Examination

Committee came to room No.7, where this witness was

invigilator and instructed to get the signatures and mobile

numbers of candidates on the attendance sheet who were

present in the said room. Accordingly, he had taken mobile

number and signatures of candidates on the attendance sheet,

which is marked as Ex.P56 his signature marked as Ex.P56(c).

In the cross-examination he has admitted that among three

members of Overseeing Examination Committee, Mr.C.B.P.Sinha 70 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 was the senior member. Further deposed that all the members

of said committee given instructions to follow the procedure of

written examination and admitted that accused No.1 alone did

not instruct to take signature of NMDC invigilator only on the

answer sheet. 78. P.W.37 - Rahul Kundurthi, Manager (Electrical)

NMDC, is another invigilator appointed from NMDC for the written

test conducted on 23.6.2013 for the post of JO. He has deposed

that all the committee members, C.B.P.Sinha, accused No.1 and

one Mehboob Basha explained about procedure to be followed in

the examination hall and as per the instructions given by said

Mehboob Basha, while he was invigilator at room No.10, took

signature and mobile number of the candidates in the attendance

sheet in the file Ex.P56, and his signature marked as Ex.P56(d).

He has also deposed about two invigilators in the examination

hall are, one is from NMDC and another from Kendriya Vidyalaya.

However, he has identified written examination paper relating to

Roll No.158 of one Dasharatha R., which is marked as Ex.P116

and his signature is marked as Ex.P116(a). 79. PW49 - Koteshwara Rao, Deputy Manager

(Finance) NMDC Ltd., was acted as invigilator in the written

examination of JO, held on 23.6.2013. He has deposed that in

the examination hall, the accused No.1 instructed all the

invigilators to follow procedure of conducting examination and

also instructed the invigilators of NMDC only to put their

signatures on question-cum-answer sheet and admit card of the

candidates. This witness as invigilator present in room No.6

along with one Rajashekar who was from Kendriya Vidyalaya.

During the examination, one of the Overseeing Committee

member Basha came and instructed them to take mobile number

of each of candidate on attendance sheet. Therefore, as per his

instructions, he had taken the mobile number of the candidates

on the answer sheet. The attendance sheet of room No.6 along

with other rooms identified as Ex.P56, which contain his

signature marked as Ex.P56(f). The attendance sheet of NMDC

invigilators marked as Ex.P206 bears his signature marked as

Ex.P206(b). In the cross-examination he has admitted that not

seen any document to show that accused No.1 was head of the

Overseeing Committee and only on assumption stated that he

was head of the said Committee. 80. PW50 - Ranjit Dhiware, Assistant Manager, was

instructed by Mr.Diwakar of Personnel Department to act as

invigilator in written examination conducted on 23.6.2013.

Accordingly, as per the instructions he was reported and accused

No.1 explained the procedure of examination. However, this

witness has stated that during the examination, both accused

No.1 and Basha came to his room No.12 and said Basha

instructed to take signature of each candidate along with their

mobile numbers on the answer sheets. His signature in

attendance sheet Ex.P56 marked as Ex.P56(g). The attendance

sheet Ex.P206 bears his signature marked Ex.P206(c). In the

cross-examination he has admitted, no statement given before

CBI stating that instructions given by accused No.1 to take

signatures of invigilators of Kendriya Vidyalaya on question-cum-

answer sheet and admit card. 81. One G.Rajashekar who was deputed as invigilator

from Kendriya Vidyalaya is examined as PW47 and he is the only

invigilator from the said institution examined before the Court as

other invigilators are not examined by prosecution as their 73 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 evidence will be repetition of the similar aspect. He has deposed

that on 23.6.2013, as per the instructions of their Principal,

worked as invigilator for written examination of JO in room No.6

along with another invigilator from NMDC, Donimalai. He has

further deposed that instructions given to him not to put

signature on the admit card and answer sheets of each

candidate. However, the invigilator from NMDC instructed to

put signature on the admit card and answer sheet. When he

along with one Koteswara Rao, as invigilators in room No.6,

some of the NMDC officials came and instructed said Koeteswara

Rao to take mobile number of each candidate on attendance

sheet. Accordingly he had instructed the candidates in the room

to write their mobile numbers on attendance sheet and received

the answer book of the candidates. He has identified his

signature in Ex.P56 marked as Ex.P56(g). The attendance sheet

of Kendriya Vidyalaya employees who worked as invigilators

marked as Ex.P206 and his signature at Sl.No.9 identified and

marked as Ex.P206(a). 82. In the cross-examination he has admitted that not

personally acquainted with any of the officials of NMDC, except 74 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 accused No.1, who used to visit the Kendriya Vidyalaya as his

children were studying in the High School. He do not know

whether accused No.1 was head of the team of NMDC officials. 83. The prosecution has alleged that the accused No.1 in

furtherance of criminal conspiracy with accused No.2 and

accused No.3 has shown favour to some candidates and

disfavour to others, particularly PW3, who was not selected for

the post of Junior Officer (Mining) though he was the top scorer

in the written examination. Therefore, it is necessary to point

out the evidence of candidates who were not selected and

selected for the post of JO, Donimalai. All the candidates

deposed about the submission of their applications with the

necessary documents as enclosures. The important candidate is

one Gungi Ankamma Rao, against whom accused No.1 shown

disfavour is examined as PW3. He has deposed complaint given

to the Vigilance Officer through e-mail as per Ex.P54 alleged

about irregularities said to be taken during the recruitment of

post of JO at Donimalai. Admittedly, he has also applied for the

post JO in the month of December-2012 and said that produced

all the requisite certificates including OBC certificate along with 75 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 application. His application with annexure in 17 pages including

envelope identified and marked as Ex.P52. He has deposed that

after receiving call letter from NMDC, he attended for written test

on 23.6.2013. The question and answer sheet pertaining to him

identified and marked as Ex.P53. According to him, the results

were announced within three days from the date of written test

which was sent through SMS to his mobile. On the same day of

receiving results, accused No.2, being his friend called over his

mobile No.9916256550 and informed about bribe amount

demanded by the NMDC officials. Though he is not able to say

mobile number of accused No.2, remember to say his mobile

number ends with numbers 614. He has disclosed about the

information given by accused No.2 regarding demand of bribe by

some of the officials of NMDC to get the post of JO. However,

after three days from the said date, accused No.2 again called

him and repeatedly asked about giving of bribe amount to the

NMDC officials. However, PW3 was not intended to give bribe

for getting appointment for the post of JO and has attended

interview on 21.7.2013. Prior to attending interview his OBC

certificate in Central Format and original documents were verified

by two of the officers of the NMDC. After verifying documents, 76 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 the OBC certificates, in both formats were taken by them along

with xerox copy. 84. Further he has deposed about procedure of interview

conducted in the hall, where six committee members were

present, among them, three were questioned regarding his

personal matters and others on the subjects. Accused No.1 was

also one of the members of the interview committee checked his

OBC certificate and clarified with the matter since it was in

Telugu and English language. All the committee members asked

about his experience and later discussed the same in his

presence. According to him, he had experience of 2½ years in

mining field and three years in construction field. The committee

members after getting clarifying about his experience completed

the interview process by asking 9 questions, out of which, he had

answered 8 questions. 85. PW3 has further deposed that after one week from the

date of interview, accused No.2 again called him over phone and

asked about giving bribe for getting appointment. He had also 77 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 informed that the bribe has to be given to the department

officials at NMDC and not disclosed the names of the officials

when he had particularly asked names of the persons who

demanded bribe. However, PW3 has decided not to give any

bribe on the ground having confidence of getting selected as he

was one among the top 10 candidates passed in the written

examination. 86. The important aspect deposed by him that subsequent

to the interview, he had received a phone call from DGM's

S.K.Jain's chamber, NMDC and asked him to meet Vigilance

officer - Srinivas at administration office, Donimalai. When he

met vigilance officer, made known about the letter received as

to he had paid Rs.12-lakhs to the officials of NMDC for getting

appointment for the post of Junior Officer (Mining) and he has

denied the said allegation. Thereafter, results were announced

and information sent through SMS in the month of September-

2013. After enquiring with the Vigilance Officer, he was made

known not selected in view of said bribery allegation. Therefore,

he gave complaint to CEO, NMDC denying bribery allegations

leveled against him and the said complaint is marked as Ex.P54 78 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 and his signature as Ex.P54(a). The OBC certificate seized under

seizure memo identified by him marked as Ex.P55 and signature

as Ex.P55(a). His statement also recorded by the 17th ACMM,

marked as Ex.P58 and his signature found at the last page

marked as Ex.P58(a). He has further stated that at the time of

written test, he has put his signature and furnished his e-mail ID

and phone number. Likewise, each candidate were also asked to

furnish e-mail ID and phone number, the same procedure was

adopted at the time of interview also. The attendance sheet

pertaining to all the candidates and the attendance sheet

obtained by NMDC officials marked as Exs.P56 and 57

respectively bears his signature marked as Ex.P56(a) and 57(a).

He has further stated that after attending interview, he met one

of the Interview Committee members namely Vipin Kumar and

disclosed about irregularities taken place during selection of JO. 87. In the cross-examination he has admitted that his

experience shown in the certificate annexed to the application

was about 5 ½ years, but in the checklist, his experience shown

as 6 years 2 months, later it was changed as 5 years 11 months,

as could be seen from Ex.P22. He has admitted that the OBC 79 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 certificate in the Central Format found in the file Ex.P52 has not

been annexed along with his application, which is marked as

Ex.D4. However, subsequently he had admitted that said Ex.D4

handed over to the person who had prepared checklist at the

time of interview. Admittedly the OBC certificate enclosed along

with application was in the State Format, which is found in the

file Ex.P52 marked as Ex.D5. He was aware that OBC certificate

in Central Format was to be produced along with application, but

not produced the same. However, he gave explanation that he

was not in possession of OBC certificate in Central Format at the

time of submitting application, subsequently after obtaining the

same produced at the time of interview. However, non

production of OBC Certificate in the Central Format along with

application is violation of one of the conditions of Notification. 88. PW3 has further admitted that the first complaint

given by him before Vigilance Officer as per Ex.P54, in which he

did not mention the names of any of the accused and also details

of phone calls received from them. However, he knew one

Pradeep working in Blasting Section since he was supplying raw

materials to NMDC and admitted the allegation made against him 80 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 that in collusion with said Pradeep he has paid Rs.12-lakhs for

getting appointment of JO, but clearly stated that false allegation

made against him. However, he is aware of the reason for not

selected as JO, made known from the Vigilance Officer - Srinivas

on allegation of bribe paid to the NMDC officials. He has

admitted the enquiry initiated by the Vigilance Officer in

connection with the same matter against him and above said

Pradeep. 89. In further cross-examination he has admitted that

accused No.2 and he was working in same company, therefore

knew each other since 2005 and talking to each other on several

occasions. He has clearly stated that accused No.2 did not

disclose either the quantum of amount to be paid as bribe to the

NMDC officials, or name of the person whom to be paid.

However, the entire evidence of PW3 infers that attempt made by

accused No.2 who gave assurance of selection of post of Junior

Officer (Mining) on the payment of bribe amount to the NMDC

officials. 90. Another candidate who was not selected for the post

of JO - Ramakrishna Singamsetti is examined as PW4. He

has identified the application submitted by him with necessary

documents marked as Ex.P59. The attendance sheets of the

candidates appeared for the written test identified as Ex.P56 and

his signature with mobile number and other details found on the

same document marked as Ex.P56(b). He has clearly stated

that the invigilator told him to write mobile number, name and

put signature on the attendance sheet. He has mentioned his

mobile No.9704095043 and said the mobile number of the

accused No.2 as 9449647614. 91. He has further deposed that message received after

one week from the date of written examination that he would

have called for interview of the post of JO. After receiving the

said message, accused No.2 called him over phone and disclosed

about he was also qualified for the interview and asked him to

pay Rs.5-lakhs to NMDC people for selection to the post of JO.

However, PW4 was confident about getting the post of JO,

informed accused No.2 that he is not interested to pay the

money to NMDC people. Afterwards, when he was attended the 82 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 interview in the month of July-2013, his documents were

verified by the NMDC officials. He has further deposed about 6-7

members were present in the interview hall, out of them, 3 to 4

members asked 5 to 6 questions. He had answered all the

questions correctly, therefore confident that he will be selected

for the post called for interview. He has identified signature and

other particulars found on the attendance sheet Ex.P57 and his

signature marked as Ex.P57(b). According to him, accused No.2

again called over phone and asked him whether he had received

message from NMDC for medical test. However, he did not

receive any message for medical test, therefore asked other

friends whether they have received any intimation from the

NMDC. Later, he was made known from accused No.2 that he

was called for medical test. Subsequently, PW3 called him over

phone informed that he is going to meet Chief Vigilance Officer,

Hyderabad for enquiring about non-selection for the post of JO

and asked him to join, if he is interested. 92. Afterwards, in the month of November-2013, PW4

also approached Chief Vigilance Officer and gave complaint as

per Ex.P61. After one year from the date of giving complaint, he 83 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 was called by CBI, Bangalore and gave his statement. Apart

from that, he had also given statement before 17th ACMM at

Bangalore, which is identified as Ex.P62 and his signature as

Ex.P62(a). In the cross-examination he has admitted that he

knew accused No.2 since 2006 as both of them working at

Bellary and Hospet, but denied that frequently calling accused

No.2 during the said period. Further he has specifically

stated about the demand for money made by accused No.2 for

getting selection to the post of JO through phone calls, but not

able to say the exact date of demand made by him for bribe,

though has stated the phone calls received from accused No.2

on 26.6.2013. He has denied for the suggestion that accused

No.2 never demanded for any money from him to get selection

for the post of JO at NMDC, Donimalai. 93. The candidate K.Bharathi Pandian, also not selected

for the post of JO, though attended written test at Kendriya

Vidyalaya held on 23.6.2013 is examined as PW35. He has

identified the application given by him with his signature marked

as Ex.P114 and P.114(a). He had also stated that necessary

documents produced along with the application, the question 84 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 paper with answer sheet relates to him marked as Ex.P.115. He

has stated about oral interview attended by him, in which, said to

be answered all the questions. But after announcing of result,

accused No.2 contacted him over mobile phone and verified

about whether he was selected or not for the post of JO. 94. The candidates selected for the post of JO are

examined as PWs.32, 53, 54, 58 and 65. PW32 Poli Naveen Kumar has deposed that after

seeing Notification issued by NMDC for the post of JO, he had

applied for the said post and his application marked as Ex.P103.

He had attended the written test at Kendriya Vidyalaya at

Donimalai and identified the attendance sheet Ex.P56 stated his

roll number was JM-083. The question paper with answer sheet

relating to him marked as Exs.P104 and P105. He was also

college mate of accused No.2 and known each other while they

were studying together in Polytechnic course at Gudur. However,

he has stated that prior to the written test on 23.6.2013, he had

no contact with accused No.2, after written test both of them

made known each other and exchanged their mobile numbers. 85 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 He was called for oral interview on 21.7.2013 and attended the

same. Further, accused No.2 made known him during first week

of July-2013, he was called for interview and asked him whether

interested to join the post of JO, if he is ready to pay Rs.3-4

lakhs for officials of NMDC, he will facilitate for the said job.

However, at that time since he was working in Birla Group

Company and getting good salary, told accused No.2 that not

interested to pay bribe to the officials of NMDC. The list of

documents produced by him before CBI identified as Exs.P106 to 110. In the cross-examination he has denied that accused No.2

never informed over mobile phone to pay Rs.3 to 4 lakhs to

facilitate job of JO on payment of Rs.3 to 4 lakhs and has

admitted that accused No.2 was also selected for the post of

Junior Officer (Mining). 95. PW53 - Asif Sardar Khan, also applied for the post

of JO and attended written test on 23.6.2013 at Kendriya

Vidyalaya, Donimalai. Thereafter, he had received message on

27.6.2013 and called for interview on 21.7.2013. He was

selected for the post of JO and received message on 2.8.2013 to 86 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 attend medical test. After medical test, on 5.9.2013, he had

received e-mail to join service of JO on or before 4.10.2013. 96. PW54 - Venkatasudarshan, also applied for the

post of JO and his application marked as Ex.P146. The

attendance sheet relating to him marked as Ex.P56 and his

signature marked as Ex.P56(h). The question-cum-answer sheet

relating to him marked as Ex.P186. According to him, he did not

write his mobile number on Ex.P56 and admitted mobile phone

number shown in Ex.P56 bearing No.9000988029 belongs to

him. He was passed in the written examination and is called for

oral interview, after interview he was selected for the post and

joined the service of post of JO in the month of October-2013.

The Xerox copy of the caste certificate produced along with

application marked as Ex.P218. The attested copy of the caste

and birth certificate produced at the time of interview marked as

Ex.P219. Therefore, the allegation made against accused No.1

that in absence of caste certificate he was selected for the post

of Junior Officer (Mining) is false. Further, he has also produced

the Xerox copies of the experience certificate along with

application marked as Exs.P220 to 222. The online caste 87 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 certificate produced under Ex.P219 proves his selection was

under the reserved category. 97. Another candidate selected for the post of JO is

PW.58 - M.Joseph Raj also attended for written test and his

application marked as Ex.P150. He has also deposed about OBC

Certificate in State Format and other supporting documents

produced by him along with application. The question-cum-

answer sheet marked as Ex.P190 and he was qualified for the

post of JO after attending interview. He has stated that selected

in GM category, though he had produced OBC certificate in State

Format, which was not considered by the concerned officials. 98. PW65 - Anadhi Mahapatra, selected for the post of

JO, after attending written test examination. The application

submitted by him along with documents marked as Ex.P144 and

his signature is Ex.P144(a). He has identified question-cum-

answer sheet marked as Ex.P185. He was also passed in written

examination attended interview on 21.7.2013 and the interview

committee contained 6-8 members. Before interview, the

documents produced were verified by one Krishna Dutt and the 88 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 checklist prepared as per Ex.P40. Though the caste certificate

produced by him was expired, since there was one month

validity, he was qualified for medical examination and joined as

JO on 13.10.2013. The seizure memo under which documents

seized by CBI marked as Ex.P236 and his signature is marked as

Ex.P236(a). He has also identified the documents produced

before CBI marked as Ex.P237. 99. The selected candidates did not say anything

regarding bribe amount demanded either by accused no.1 or

accused No.2 or accused No.3 before interview. Further, the

evidence of witnesses who were not selected were also deposed

about the bribe demanded by accused No.2 for selection for

Junior Officer (Mining). PWs.3 and 4 who were not selected for

the said post, challenged the selection process as it was not

proper on the ground that some irregularities had taken place

during recruitment process. However, the documents reveal that

both of them have not complied the conditions of Notification

while applied for the post of Junior Officer (Mining). The note

made by the Scrutiny Committee on their checklist reveal about

grounds for rejection of their applications at the initial stage 89 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 itself. However, both of them were given opportunity to attend

the written examination showing some leniency by the NMDC. 100. It is admitted that different committees formed were

comprising of members to look after the process of appointing JO

in NMDC. The Scrutiny and Short listing of the applications

committee was headed by three officials, namely C.B.P.Sinha,

Vinay Kumar and Subhasihis Chatterjee, they were examined as

PWs.13, 11 and 7 and their evidence is already discussed above

infers that no participation of accused No.1 while the work

entrusted to different committees from initial stage till the end of

interview. 101. The witnesses who had stated about the statement of

accounts maintained in the name of father of accused No.3 Sheik

Anwar Pasha, brother-in-law of one Khadar Shariff Sheik namely

Sheik Samraj Ahmed who knew accused No.3 and different

accounts opened by accused No.2 in banks examined as PWs.17,

18, 20 and 46 respectively. 102. PW17 - K.V.Ramana Rao, the Manager, SBI, Eluru

Bazar Branch in A.P. has submitted documents to CBI marked as

Exs.P69 to 72. Original account opening form of S.B. Account

No.31553895853 in the name of Sheik Anwar Pasha, the father

of accused No.3, along with enclosures marked as Ex.P68. The

statement of account in respect of said account number for the

period from 25.4.2011 to 31.12.2013 marked as Ex.P69. Six

original SBI credit vouchers for an amount of Rs.4,500/- dated

5.2.2013, withdrawal slip for Rs.49,900/- dated 15.7.2013, pay-

in-slip for Rs.11,807/- dated 15.2.2013, credit voucher for

Rs.2,25,200/- and SBI withdrawal slip for Rs.3,00,000/- dated

7.1.2013 identified before the Court. Out of which, credit

voucher for Rs.4,900/-, pay-in-slip for Rs.11,807/-, credit

voucher for Rs.2,25,200/- and withdrawal slip for Rs.3,00,000/-

are not available on record. However, list of documents

produced before the IO marked as Ex.P72 and his signature as

Ex.P72(a). 103. PW18 - G.Durga Prasad, Chief Manager in SBI,

Nidadavole Branch, West Godavari District, Andhra Pradesh also

produced documents relating to Sheik Samraj Ahmed, brother- 91 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 in-law of one Khadar Shariff Sheik who knew accused No.3. The

original account opening form and statement of account

No.10925010583 stood in the name of said Sheik Samraj Ahmed

along with other documents marked as Ex.P73 and 74. The

original SBI withdrawal form dated 15.7.2013 for Rs.1,00,000/-

marked as Ex.P76. The letter received to produce the documents

before I.O. is marked as Ex.P77. 104. PW.20 - Veeranna Gowda, Manager in Axis

Bank, Sandur Branch, has produced the statement of account of

S.B. Account No.911010035645348 of accused No.2 for the

period from 14.7.2011 to 20.1.2014. The original account

opening form in respect of said account given by accused No.2

along with annexure marked as Ex.P80. Another original account

opening form in respect of S.B. Account No.912010061406376 in

the name of accused No.2 along with true copies of PAN card,

Driving Licence etc. marked as Ex.P81. The statement of

accounts in respect of said both S.B. accounts maintained by

accused No.2 marked as Exs.P82 to 84. The original Axis Bank

cheque for Rs.2,00,000/- dated 6.2.2013 though referred in his 92 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 evidence is not available on record. However, the original Axis

Bank cheque dated 28.6.2013 for Rs.4,65,000/- drawn in favour

of self marked as Ex.P85. Further he has deposed about other

original cash credit voucher for Rs.1,500/- and Rs.54,620/- which

are not available before the Court. The self cheque said to be

drawn on 28.6.2012 for Rs.1,00,000/- also not available before

the Court. The Original Axis Bank cheques drawn for self each

for Rs.60,000/- and in favour of N.Srinivas, the cheques drawn

for Rs.1,30,000/- and Rs.30,000/- in favour of Srinivas and

cheque drawn for self for Rs.55,000/- are not produced before

the Court. However, original demand draft voucher dated

1.10.2013 for Rs.50,000/- in favour of Max Life Insurance

Company Limited is marked as Ex.P86. The important 5 relevant

entries in proof of deposit of amount in cash deposit machine

CBM dated 15.7.2013 in Ex.P82 marked as Ex.P82(a). However,

the evidence of this witness proves two different S.B. accounts

opened by accused No.2 in different banks and receipt of

cheques for different amount on different dates. 105. PW46 - Nandan Kumar, Branch Manager in

State Bank of India, Sandur Branch has furnished details of SB 93 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 A/c.No.31147478026. The account opening form of accused

No.2 and statement of his account marked as Ex.P202 and 203. 106. The Service particulars of accused Nos.1 to 3

produced by Joint General Manger (Personnel) NMDC, T.Raja

examined as PW.24 has identified the same marked as Exs.P88

to 90. He was instructed by Assistant General Manager

Mr.Chatterji to furnish 112 original admit cards out of which, he

has furnished 45 original admit cards of the candidates appeared

for written examination marked as Ex.P-91. He has deposed

about procedure of selection of OBC candidates as to produce

relevant caste certificate in the format prescribed by the

Government of India. According to him the candidates who were

not produced the said certificate along with their applications,

time was provided them to produce the caste certificate at later

stage. Even afterwards if any candidate failed to comply the

same, then also sufficient time granted to them. Even otherwise,

if any candidate failed to produce the prescribed format issued by

Government of India, the Selection Committee ought to have

rejected the claim of candidates of OBC category. However,

they were authorized to consider the caste certificate issued by 94 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 Revenue Authorities of concerned State Government. After

considering those candidates under OBC category, they were

selected for the post of JO as per rules. 107. Admittedly, though PW24 was not present at the

time of recruitment process of JO at NMDC, he has gone through

the Notification issued for the selection of said post and the same

identified in the cross-examination, which is marked as Ex.D3.

He has denied for the suggestion that no such

Notification/Circular issued as to selection of candidates on the

basis of the caste certificates issued by the Revenue Authorities

of concerned state. 108. The preliminary investigation conducted by one of

the officials of NMDC, Donimalai, namely Murali Krishna is

examined as P.W.8. He was working as Assistant General

Manager, Vigilance Department, NMDC and deposed about

complaint made with regard to recruitment of JO, received by the

Chief Vigilance Officer in the month of August or September-

2013. He along with two others have conducted preliminary

investigation as per the instructions given by Chief Vigilance 95 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 Officer - Smt.Usha Chandrashekar, and the Preliminary

Investigation Report was submitted marked as Ex.P65. 109. PW8 has deposed the allegation made by the

Complainant - PW3, Gungi Ankamma Rao who was said to be

belongs to OBC category, not selected for the post of JO.

However, after verification of the records he found that some of

the candidates of OBC were treated in General category. He is

particular about only after going through the records the

preliminary investigation report was prepared as per Ex.P65 and

submitted to Chief Vigilance Officer. 110. In the cross-examination admitted that the entire

process of recruitment was handled by separate committees at

different stages. He has also admitted that only after approval

from Executive Director - L.N.Mathur, admission tickets were

issued to the eligible candidates, thereafter, who have passed the

written examination, called for interview as per their category.

He does not know anything about specific instructions given by

any member of the committee to give marks to the candidates 96 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 on particular subject and also towards their experience. He has

further admitted that according to the Notification Ex.D3, no

scope for furnishing additional documents at later stage.

However, his evidence is contrary as the certificate of date of

birth which was not produced by PW4 at the time of submitting

application was collected and attached at the time of scrutiny of

documents as could be seen from the note made in the check list

Ex.P32. Likewise, the check list of candidate Venugopal D.G.

marked at Ex.P48 also it was noted that SC certificate dated

21.8.2012 submitted with application original not shown, another

SC certificate dtd.11.7.2013 produced and submitted. Therefore,

when the specific direction given to candidates applied for JO to

produce the copies of certificates along with applications,

prescribed under the above-mentioned Notification Ex.D3, the

certificates from PW4 and another candidate Venugopal,

received at later stage during interview is against the rules

prescribed under Notification. 111. PW9 - Mohammed Vahidoddin, working as

Senior Manager, NMDC, Hyderabad has deposed the documents

seized by CBI as per seizure memo dated 14.2.2014 is marked 97 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 as Ex.P66. Admittedly, the said documents are relating to

recruitment process of JO were in the custody of Vigilance

Department. 112. PW40 - K.Dhananjayan, Assistant General

Manager, (Vigilance) NMDC, Hyderabad has deposed about

original documents collected from the General Manager, NMDC

Limited, Donimalai and the same identified before the Court

marked as Exs.P120 to 195. They are the original applications

with enclosures submitted by different candidates which were

said to be handed over by accused No.1. 113. The prosecution has relied on the evidence of PW41

and PW42 in proof of conversation between accused No.2 and

other candidates from whom bribe amount demanded to give to

the officials of NMDC. PW41 - P.Ratnakar Nayak, the then

Divisional Engineer, BSNL has produced the call details pertaining

to Mobile No.9449647614 alleged to be belonging to accused

No.2 for the period from 1.6.2013 to 31.12.2013 marked as

Ex.P196 and his signature as Ex.P196(a). The details of calls 98 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 outgoing and incoming are mentioned from mobile number

9449647614 to different mobile numbers (9482812750,

9449703371, 9448146246, 9449871003, 9449871008,

9449871010, 9552517110, 9822043317, 9552517101,

9552517102, 9552517106, 9449871003, 9480694343,

9448754989, 94481715552, 9480932338, 9481717741,

9449201377, 9480135209, 9482145412, 9449173371,

9480694343, 9986118121, 9448146246). The outgoing calls

mentioned through Sandur Exchange from 1.6.2013 at different

timings. 114. PW42 - H.S.C.Rao, Assistant General Manager

(Customer Application Form) in BSNL has furnished particulars of

mobile No.9449647614 standing in the name of customer Prabha

W/o.Gangadhar. The certified copy of the customer application

with covering letter marked as Ex.P197. The call detail produced

by PW41 also reveals the number 9449647614 from which

outgoing calls to many different mobile numbers mentioned in

Ex.P196. The said mobile number admittedly belongs to accused

No.2 who made calls to PWs.3 and 4 in connection with alleged

bribe amount to be paid to NMDC officials. However, as per 99 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 Ex.P197, the letter of BSNL, enclosed with application given by

one Prabha and the SIM card 8991712100411558611 was

activated on 28.10.2005. But the above-said mobile number of

accused No.2 mentioned on the application will not give scope for

any doubts as the same number might have changed and taken

by accused No.2 subsequently. 115. However, the above-said K.L.Prabha, examined

as PW43 has deposed that no application given by her to

BSNL to get SIM card in the year 2005. She has denied the

signature in the customer application form enclosed to covering

letter Ex.P197 and has clearly stated not furnished copy of

election ID card to BSNL along with the said application. She has

further stated that never used the mobile No.9449647614 at any

point of time. Though in the cross-examination she has admitted

that the photo annexed to the customer application form

enclosed to Ex.P197 belongs to her, her specific denial regarding

customer application filed by her with ID card annexed to it

proves the above mobile number not used by her. 100 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 116. The prosecution in proof of arrest of accused No.2 by

the CBI, examined PW44 - Krishna K., the Assistant

Manager, Vijaya Bank, who has deposed that when he went to

the office of CBI, Bangalore, accused No.2 was arrested and he

has put signature to the arrest memo Ex.P198 and it is marked

as Ex.P198(a). The Personal search memo marked as Ex.P.199,

under which, police have seized mobile with SIM card and other

things from accused No.2. Though he do not know the contents

of Ex.P199, admitted his signature marked as Ex.P199(a). The

suggestion put in the cross-examination that CBI officer has

written the contents and particulars of Ex.P199, is however

proves personal search of accused No.2 while he was arrested in

the presence of this witness. 117. PW45 - N.Balasingh, Sub-Divisional Engineer,

BSNL, Hyderabad has deposed about certified copy of CDRs and

CAF pertaining to mobile No.7382072338 furnished by him with

covering letter, the same marked as Ex.P200 and signature as

Ex.P200(a). The customer application with ID card marked as

Ex.P201. 118. PW48 - S.N.Murthy, Nodal Officer of Vodafone,

furnished customer application form with documents and call

data records relating to mobile Nos.9916976520,

9916256550 and 9966555125. Accordingly, he has produced

the details of calls made through those numbers from 16.7.2013

to 31.12.2013 with covering letter Ex.P207. But he is not able to

say the details of call records marked under Exs.P208, 210 and

212, from whose mobile numbers calls were made during the

relevant period. Though the certificates issued under Section

65(B) of Indian Evidence Act marked as Exs.P213 to 215 along

with the call details, the important fact relating to who were all

used the said mobile numbers to make calls either to accused

No.1 or accused No.2 is not produced before the Court.

Moreover, he has admitted that not personally verified call data

records and application form submitted by the customers.

However, he is not able to say the call data record in respect of

above-said three mobile numbers, though he has identified the

customer application forms submitted by one Sudesh Kumar and

Gungi Ankamma Rao. Therefore, the Court cannot make the

names of customers in whose favour the above three numbers 102 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 were given from which the calls were made in connection with

alleged demand of illegal gratification. 119. Another Nodal Officer, Bharti Airtel Limited,

Bengaluru Standly Angelo, examined as PW57 deposed about

customer application form relating to one Veerabhadrappa

furnished is marked as Ex.P224. The copy of the PAN card

relating to him marked as Ex.P225. The list of mobile numbers

allotted to said Veeradrappa, Sangappa and others in total 40

produced by him along with covering letter marked as Ex.P223.

Likewise, the covering letter dtd.17.11.2014 sent to Investigating

Officer CBI relating to mobile No. 7795571256 marked as

Ex.P226 and his signature marked as Ex.P226(a). The xerox

copy of the customer application of one James Anthony Raj

produced by him along with copy of the ID card marked as

Ex.P227. However, the call details with customer applications

of different persons produced by above witnesses will not

disclose anything the conversation between accused No.1 with

accused No.2 and accused No.3. 120. The prosecution has produced the evidence of Chief

Vigilance Officer, Smt.Usha Chandrashekar examined as

PW.52, has deposed in respect of irregularities alleged to be

taken place in the recruitment process during selection of JO in

NMDC, in the year 2013, which was brought to her notice by one

of the candidates, PW3 - Gungi Ankamma Rao, who had applied

for the said post. She had received the information over phone,

when she was in training at Paris, in the month of July-August

2013. After receiving the said information, she asked him to give

written complaint regarding irregularities through post or e-mail

by providing her official e-mail ID. After receiving the complaint

through e-mail sent by P.W.3, she gave direction to Vigilance

Officer, NMDC to conduct internal investigation and submit the

report. The complaint sent through e-mail by PW3 marked as

Ex.P54 and his signature as Ex.P54(a). 121. She has further deposed about other 5-6 complaints

received from different candidates regarding the same

irregularities taken in the recruitment process of JO at NMDC.

But, the details of those complaints given by different candidates

are not produced before the Court. The complaint given by PW4 - 104 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 S.Ramakrishna Singamsetty, has identified and marked as

Ex.P61. Final investigation report submitted by Vigilance

Department identified as Ex.P65. She has deposed about the

internal investigation report submitted to Investigating Officer

with covering letter is marked as Ex.P217 and her signature

marked as Ex.P217(a). 122. In the cross-examination she has admitted that no

personal knowledge about allegation made in the complaint, also

the name of officer of NMDC not mentioned in the complaint and

no allegation made against accused No.1. However, she has

specifically pointed out page No.76 of internal investigation

report Ex.P65, where the irregularities committed by all the

officers of NMDC ,including accused No.1 are mentioned. 123. I have perused page No.76 of Ex.P65 and found that

the recommendations made to take disciplinary action against

the following officials under NMDC CDA Rules 1978 for the

lapses mentioned as under Rule 5.5: Acting in a manner

prejudicial to the interest of the company and Rule 5.9 : Neglect

of work or negligence in the performance of the duty. 105 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 1) A.Diwakar, Dy.Manager (Personnel) R&P 2) Ramakrishna Manager Personnel 3) Bijay Kumar Khamari, Manager (IR) and R & P 4) K.Srinivas, Manager, (Personnel)/Vigilance 5) D.Acharya, AGM, Personnel 6) L.N.Mathur, Executive Director

 However, the CBI made allegations against accused No.1

only, on the basis of Source Information, though it is alleged

that other officials also involved in the lapses mentioned in the

Investigation Report. 124. The Prosecution further alleged that accused No.1

not put proposal for preparing question papers for written

examination. However, PW55 - G.K.Patnayak, Deputy Manger

(Secretariat), NMDC, Donimalai has deposed about assistance

given to accused No.1 and C.B.P.Sinha for doing xerox copies of

question papers for the post of JO on the direction given by

Executive Director. According to him, the xerox copies of

question papers were collected by accused No.1, and he went

along with C.B.P.Sinha to the Chamber of Executive Director. 106 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 Thereafter the question papers were put in the envelope and

kept in the sealed cartoon box as directed by Executive Direcotr,

later it was taken by accused No.1 with C.B.P.Sinha to the house

of Executive Director. 125. P.W.59 - Thippeswamy, working as Junior

Assistant in NMDC, Donimalai has deposed that his duties are

feeding/updating employees' details in the system, clerical job,

opening service books of the employees and any other works

entrusted by his supervisors. He along with one Sri Gururaja

Rao, assisted PW1 - Assistant Manager (Personnel) in feeding

the data, like name, father's name, date of birth, age,

qualification, experience etc. The data entered by him relating to

recruitment of JO in the year 2013 identified as Ex.P1(a) to 1(d). 126. PW63 - Priyadarshini G., DGM (Personnel) in

NMDC, Donimalai has furnished documents sought by CBI officer,

and Sanction Order identified as Ex.P255 and her signature as

Ex.P255(b). The documents produced along with Sanction

identified as Ex.P255(a). 127. The prosecution has produced the evidence of other

official and independent witnesses in proof of the seizure of

documents by CBI. The witness for seizure mahazar Assistant

Manager of Pragathi Krishna Grameena Bank, Hospet

S.Siddappa examined as PW19. His evidence reveal about CBI

officials summoned him and took him to Sandoor along with

women constable of Sandoor Police Station, they proceeded

towards Donimalai and went to the house of accused No.1 and

seized the documents after making due search in the house. The

search list prepared by the Inspector identified as Ex.P78 and his

signatures marked as Exs.P78(a) and (b), under which, only one

document mentioned in the column No.2, was seized, which is

the copy of the acknowledgement of AGM, Vigilance, NMDC,

Hyderabad dated 5.12.2013 for being collected 392 applications

along with enclosures connected to the employment Notification

No.1/12 is mentioned. The said document contains answer

sheets of the written test for the Junior Officer (Mining). 128. PW19 has further deposed about the safe locker

opened by Investigating Officer and materials were seized as per

the list marked as Ex.P79 and his signatures marked as 108 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 Exs.P79(a) to (c). The said document is Locker Operation

Proceedings prepared by Investigating Officer in connection with

the Locker No.88 operated by accused No.1 and his wife,

operated on 3.1.2014 at 12.30 p.m. P.W.19 being independent

witness of the both Exs.P78 and 79 stated about documents and

materials seized in his presence under the said seizure memos. 129. The witness K.Mohan, who was aware of

recruitment process examined as PW51. He was working as

Deputy General Manager (Personnel), NMDC Limited, Hyderabad

was looking after the recruitment and promotion matters and

familiar those matter enquired by Inspector of Police, CBI on

22.10.2014. He has produced the documents seized under

Ex.P216 and identified his signature as Ex.P216(a). He has also

identified the copy of the Publication of Employment Notification

No.1/12 dtd.4.12.2012 kept in Ex.P1 marked as Ex.P1(a). 130. According to PW51, the appointment was provisional

and would be terminated in case, the caste or OBC certificates

produced by the candidates found to be false. The appointing

authority had given powers to consider OBC certificates issued by 109 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 the concerned authorities not produced in prescribed format at

the time of applications given by them though same produced at

later stage. However, in the cross-examination he has admitted

that if no prescribed format submitted by the OBC candidates

that they will be given opportunity to produce the OBC certificate

at later stage in proper format. 131. In the cross-examination he has admitted that

not gone through all the applications given by the candidates and

he had seen the documents pertaining to PW3. He has admitted

that in Ex.D7 it is endorsed on the application of the said

candidate that he belongs to General. He has admitted that file

Ex.P1 consisting of report of committee constituted for the

purpose of scrutiny and short listing of applications submitted by

the candidates mentioned at Sl.Nos.62, 105, 112, 174, 199, 211,

269, 292, 322 and 329 who were not short listed on the ground

that OBC certificate not in central format. However, no enquiry

made by CBI officials in connection with those candidates who

were not short listed but enquiry made only in respect of PW3,

who is not admittedly failed to produce the OBC certificate along

with the application. He being official witness working as Deputy 110 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 General Manager (Personnel), NMDC Limited, Hyderabad has

admitted that there was no uniform procedure while recruiting

Junior Officer (Mining) at relevant point of time. 132. The independent witness Kona Durga Rajalakshmi

examined as PW56 has deposed about vacant site purchased by

her for Rs.4,00,000/-, thereafter sold the same property to

accused No.3 and his brother Khader Basha. The certified copies

of the sale deeds executed in their favour identified under

Exs.P93 and 94, which are the Xerox copies of the sale deeds

dtd.3.7.2013 in respect of two different portion of land bearing

Sy.No.433/1 sold for Rs.2,19,000/- each. 133. The official witnesses are examined as CWs.60 to 62.

PW60 - Vivekananda Swamy, Inspector of Police, CBI, ACB,

Bengaluru has conducted part investigation at different places in

Eluru, Vuyyur, Guntur and Nidadavole and collected the

documents as well as recorded statements of different witnesses.

He has identified the certified copies of the documents collected

from Sub-Registrar Smt.R.Lakshmi, Proprietor of Shakthi

Jewellery V.N.M.Shekar, P.Sharada, Sub-Registrar, Vatlur and 111 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 recorded their statements. One Smt.Mohammed Ameeda Begum

and Smt.S.Ramakrishna also enquired by him along with

G.N.R.Sathish. The documents collected by him identified as

Exs.P92, 94, 95, 97 and P-98. After collecting those documents

and recording statements of above witnesses the file handed

over to Investigating Officer, who is examined as PW62. 134. The Inspector of Police, CBI/ACB at Hyderabad -

N.Raghavendra Kumar examined as PW61. He was also

conducted part investigation as per the direction given by Deputy

Inspector of General, CBI, Hyderabad. During his part

investigation collected Customer Application Form and Call Data

Records from BSNL, Hyderabad, forwarded the same to

CBI/Bengaluru. He has identified letter addressed by Sub-

Divisional Engineer, Hyderabad to IPS, CBI/ACB, Bengaluru

under Ex.P200. The Customer Application Form identified as

Ex.P201. Afterwards, he has examined Muralikrishna, AGM,

Vigilance, NMDC and recorded his statement. The said

Muralikrishna is examined before the court as PW8. 112 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 135. The I.O. who has conducted further investigation is

T.Rajashekara examined as PW62. He has deposed about

FIR registered on 26.12.2013 by Dr.A.Subramanyeshwara Rao

against accused Nos.1 and 2 and unknown persons for the

offences mentioned in the charge sheet and entrusted the file for

further investigation. The FIR registered is identified as

Ex.P228. After receiving case file, he had filed application under Section 93 of Cr.P.C. and obtained search warrant, after due

search in the residential premises of accused No.2, he had visited

residence and office premises of accused No.1, search list

prepared by him in the presence of witnesses marked as

Ex.P229. 136. Further during his investigation he has obtained call

details and Customer Application Form in respect of Mobile

Nos.9966555125, 9916256550 and 9525438035. Statements of

independent witnesses who were present at the time of search

list also recorded. The documents relating to account opening

form and statement of account held in the name of accused No.2

also received from SBI and Axis Bank of Sandur. He has

identified the statements of witnesses recorded by him are 113 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 Veeranna Gowda, Nandan Kumar and K.Ramana Rao who are

examined as PWs.20, 46 and 17 respectively. 137. Further he has also visited the NMDC office,

Hyderabad and collected documents as per Exs.P1, 4, 5, 52, 53,

59, 66, 67, 103, 104, 114 to 116, 120 to 195 under the seizure

memo dated 14.2.2014 produced by the witness Mohammed

Vahidoddin. PW3 also produced documents before him seized

under the seizure memo dated 24.2.2014, marked as Ex.P55 and

his statement also recorded. Further the documents collected

from the witness Durgaprasad identified as Exs.P73 to 76. He

has further seized documents from AGM, NMDC, relating to

written test held for the post of Junior Officer (Mining). He has

examined the witness Bharathi Pandian and recorded the

statement after seizing the documents. He has deposed about

other documents seized from the witnesses whose evidence

already discussed above and recorded their statements on

different dates. 138. He has identified the document Ex.P65 seized from

PW52, apart from other documents seized from Jayanth Kumar 114 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 Sahoo under seizure memo dated 21.5.2014. He has also

collected documents from selected candidates under different

seizure memos and recorded their statements. The officials of

Kendriya Vidyalaya namely Rajashekar, Abdul Gafar, Mallikarjuna

Dyama, G.Bharata Chandra Raju, Duggappa, M.Malik Saab and

Y.T.Ramamurthy who were the invigilators for written

examination for the post of Junior Officer (Mining) also examined

and recorded their statements. The documents collected from

PWs.6, 24, 33, 34 and 39 and others also identified before the

Court. Further the documents produced by accused No.1

identified as Ex.P231. He has stated about documents collected

from PW57 - Standly Agnelo, whose statement also recorded

along with PW14 - Veeranna and PW55 - G.K.Patnayak. The

documents seized from PW7 under seizure memo dated

4.12.2014 marked as Exs.P64, 91, 193 to 237. Further, he has

examined other witnesses namely Amit Kumar Singh, Vipin

Kumar, Shashikanth Verma and Vinay Kumar, who are examined

as PWs.38, 10, 16 and 11. 139. Thereafter, on 19.12.2014, S.P., CBI/Bengaluru

entrusted part investigation to Raghavendra, Inspector, 115 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 CBI/ACB/Hyderabad. On 22.12.2014, he has visited BSNL Office,

Bengaluru and collected documents from PW42, afterwards

recorded his statement. The statements of PWs.3 and 4

recorded before 17th ACMM, Bengaluru under Section 164 Cr.P.C. identified as Exs.P58 and 62. He has further identified

documents seized by him marked as Exs.P232 to 225. In further

chief-examination he has identified the original application form

of one Prabeen Kumar Das with enclosures marked as

Ex.P141(a) for the sake of convenience. 140. In the cross-examination for accused No.1 he has

admitted that the witness Mohammed Nijas, who is examined as

PW36 has not stated anything against said accused No.1 who

was explained the procedure at the time of written examination

as on 23.6.2013 and also only NMDC invigilators put their

signatures on the answer sheet. Further admitted that PW38

Amit Kumar Singh has not given any statement stating that

accused No.1 with Mr.Patnayak and C.B.P.Sinha came and took

the question paper from computer system in pen drive for

printing. Likewise, PW50 - Ranjit Diware has not stated that

accused No.1 has explained as to the procedure of conducting 116 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 written examination and instructed not to take signature of

invigilators the teachers of Kendriya Vidyalaya. 141. The Clear admission made by PW62 that PW49 -

Koteshwara Rao has not stated that accused No.1 instructed the

procedure of conducting examination and only invigilators of

NMDC shall put their signatures on question-cum-answer sheet

and admit card. Likewise, no instructions given by accused No.1

to the invigilators of Kendriya Vidyalaya shall not put their

signatures on admit card and question-cum-answer sheets. He

has also admitted that no witnesses stated anything against

accused No.1 relating to instruction given by him, particularly,

not to take signatures of invigilators of Kendriya Vidyalaya and to

take signatures of only NMDC Officials, acted as invigilators in

the written examination. Therefore, statements of the witnesses

said to be recorded by him are contrary to the case of CBI, in

connection with allegations made against accused No.1.

Because one of the allegations made that specific instruction

given by accused No.1 to the officials of NMDC acted as

invigilators only to put their signatures on the question-cum-

answer sheet and admit card, specific instruction given to the 117 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 teachers of Kendriya Vidyalaya acted as invigilators not to put

their signatures in the answer sheet, falsifies in view of

admissions made by the witnesses that no such statement given

by them relating to the said instructions given by accused No.1. 142. Further important admission made by him that

PW12 - L.N.Mathur was Executive Director and Project in-charge

of Donimalai NMDC who has constituted different committees at

different stages of appointment of Junior Officer (Mining). He

has further admitted the important aspect relating to

participation of members of each committee at different stages

while recruiting the candidates for the post of Junior Officer

(Mining). Therefore, the clear and important admission made by

Investigating Officer reveals about no sole participation of

accused No.1 in the recruitment process of Junior Officer (Mining)

from the stage of scrutiny of applications till the interview as

contended in the charge sheet. 143. Though PW62 has denied that no documents relating

to criminal conspiracy and illegal gratification received by

accused No.1 by way of abusing his official position are 118 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 produced, he has not pointed out any specific document relating

to the criminal conspiracy by accused No.1, received with other

accused and also illegal gratification received by him way of

abusing his official position as AGM (Personnel) while recruiting

candidates for the post of Junior Officer (Mining). Though he

has denied for the suggestion that the statements of witnesses

not recorded during his investigation, but the statements of

witnesses pointed out in the cross-examination are inconsistent

to the evidence deposed by them before the Court. 144. In further cross-examination on behalf of accused

No.2, he has admitted that accused No.2 joined NMDC as Junior

Officer (Mining) on 29.5.2013 and the case registered against

him on 23.12.2013, afterwards charge sheet submitted on

31.12.2014. He has also admitted that since accused No.2 was

not working as public servant in NMDC during the relevant point

of time, no Sanction was obtained to prosecute against him.

However, he has voluntarily stated that as on the date of

commission of offence, accused No.2 was not a public servant,

therefore, no Sanction obtained from the competent authority.

In further cross-examination he has admitted that accused No.3 119 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 has deposited an amount of Rs.3,00,400/- on 15.7.2013 to the

account of accused No.2 and the same amount available in his

account till the date of his cross-examination as on 17.3.2017.

However, the said amount has not been seized by him during the

investigation. He has denied the documents produced by

accused No.2 relating to loan borrowed by accused No.3,

returned by him after considering the same during the

investigation. Though he has denied return of the documents

of loan, not offered any explanation as to why not seized those

documents during his investigation. 145. PW62 in further cross-examination has admitted the

documents verified by him from time-to-time assigned by

accused No.1. He is particular about the noting put by accused

No.1 himself as Head of Personnel Branch during the course of

written examination, conducting interviews, verification of

documents as noted in Exs.P1 and 2. In support of said evidence

he has referred the first page of Ex.P1, in which, it is made out

that the matter relating to recruitment for the post of Junior

Officer (Mining) from the date of initial stage, notification venue

for conducting written examination, interview and verification of 120 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 documents submitted for approval by the accused No.1 and it

was approved by Executive Director, who is examined as PW12

who was the head of Project. 146. He has clearly admitted that no mention in Ex.P1 as

accused No.1 alone made note in connection with recruitment

process and forwarded everything as stated by him. However, it

can be said that accused No.1 being Assistant General Manager

of Personnel Department might have given entire responsibility of

getting recruitment for the post of Junior Officer (Mining) relating

to conducting written examination, oral interview and verification

of documents. Therefore, he might have submitted the same

before Executive Director for approval, as could be seen from

Ex.P1. Because, it is not in dispute that accused No.1 was the

head of Personnel Department entrusted with the work of

recruitment process for the post of Junior Officer (Mining). 147. The Investigating Officer has further admitted that

no document produced to show the nexus between accused No.1

and 2. Therefore, it implies no conversation between them to

enter into an agreement and also criminal conspiracy between 121 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 accused No.1 with accused Nos.2 and 3 to do an illegal act.

Though Investigating Officer has denied that the documents

produced before the Court not reveal about independent role

played by accused No.1 in the recruitment process, the

documents relied on by CBI will not establish the sole

participation taken by accused No.1 in the recruitment process as

alleged in the charge sheet. Because PW12 being head of

Project has formed different committees comprising different

officers who were looked after different stages of the recruitment

process. 148. Though the specific allegation made against accused

No.3 that he has paid amount of Rs.3,00,400/- to accused No.2

and selected for the post of Junior Officer (Mining), there was no

impediment for the Investigating Officer to seize the said

amount if it was really paid towards the bribe as alleged by

prosecution. However, the evidence of PW62 who is responsible

officer has conducted part investigation and identified many

documents seized by him, has stated that the statements of

witnesses recorded by him are inconsistent to the oral evidence

deposed by the witnesses. 149. Accused No.1 has filed written statement under Section 313(5) of Cr.P.C. and stated that the entire process

recruitment was being monitored and done under the authority of

Executive Director Sri L.N.Mathur examined as PW12 and no

individual officer was assigned with any particular job or work

with regard to recruitment process taken for the post of Junior

Officer (Mining) at NMDC. He has further stated that PW12 is the

project head and PW3 - Gungi Ankamma Rao not furnished OBC

certificate in Central Format at the time of interview, therefore he

was not selected for the reason that not furnished the required

certificate for the above post as per the Notification issued under

Ex.D3. The defence of the accused No.1 is that there was no

nexus with other accused Nos.2 and 3 or any of the persons in

connection with the above recruitment process. He has stated

that no candidate treated as General who has to be treated as

OBC category. The entire process of recruitment was being dealt

with by independent committees constituted by head of the

project PW12 and he was only a member of committees formed

by Executive Director. 150. The defence taken by the accused No.2 in the

written statement filed under Section 313(5) of Cr.P.C. is that

allegation made against him he had conspired with officers of

NMDC Limited, in furtherance of conspiracy cheated the NMDC

and other eligible candidates by illegal acts in the matter of

selection of candidates for the post of Junior Officer (Mining) is

false. Further the allegation made against him that he

dishonestly induced accused No.1 to pay illegal gratification for

himself and accused No.1. However, he has stated that he was

top 7 candidates in the selection list and has selected for the post

of Junior Officer (Mining). Subsequently, he was kept under

suspension from 13.11.2014 to 7.2.2017, thereafter on the same

day on 7.2.2012 terminated from the service. Further stated

that the amount deposited by accused No.3 on 15.7.2013 of his

account maintained in SBI and Axis Bank was towards the

amount borrowed from him on 29.6.2013 to purchase the flat.

In connection with the said loan, copy of the promissory note

said to be executed by accused No.3 dated 29.6.2013 along with

other copies of documents are produced. He has further stated

that the amount has been withdrawn by him from the Axis Bank

on 28.6.2013 to pay the loan of Rs.3,00,000/- to the accused 124 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 No.3 for purchasing flat. He has also stated that PWs.3 to 5 are

friends, therefore he had casual talk with them on certain

occasions. The amount deposited by accused No.3 towards loan

was in his account till filing of the charge sheet, but Investigating

Officer has not seized the said amount. According to him, if it

was a bribe amount, it would have been given to accused No.1.

In support of his defence has produced the copies of letters

issued by NMDC dated 27.5.2013, 25.6.2013, 1.8.2013, Merit list

of candidates in the written test, letter of appointment dated

5.9.2013, letter of his discharge dated 7.2.2017 with copies of

statements of account maintained in Axis Bank & State Bank of

India and Promissory note executed by accused No.3 dated

29.6.2013 for Rs.3,00,000/-. 151. The defence taken by the accused No.3 that he was

selected for the post of Junior Officer (Mining) as per the

recruitment policy and procedure of NMDC Limited, Donimalai.

He had no contacts or communication with any public servants

and a false allegation made against him that he paid bribe to the

accused No.2 to get select for the post of Junior Officer (Mining).

The amount paid to the accused No.2 is relating the loan 125 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 borrowed by him to purchase land and not for any other purpose.

He has not cheated the NMDC, Donimalai, in recruitment process

of Junior Officer (Mining). He has fulfilled the requirements of

recruitment process and he was not given benefit at any stage of

the selection for the post of Junior Officer (Mining). He will not

come in any reserve category of OBC/SC/ST, he was selected on

the basis of merit in open category. The marks awarded to him

during the interview was as per the policy and procedure of

NMDC, Donimalai, which was approved by competent authority

and he got selected for the post of Junior Officer (Mining). He

has not manipulated any of the records as alleged by the

prosecution. 152. The learned Public Prosecutor has submitted that

the accused No.1 with fraudulent intention entered into criminal

conspiracy with accused Nos.2 and 3 for selection of the

candidates for the post of Junior Officer (Mining). The

submission made by the learned Public Prosecutor that accused

No.1 purposefully and willfully not received the OBC certificate

from the candidates particularly from PW3 on the ground that he

has refused to pay bribe. The case of prosecution is based on 126 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 circumstantial evidence as no direct evidence is available relating

to criminal conspiracy entered between accused Nos.1 to 3. In

connection with the criminal conspiracy submitted that no

necessity to each person know each other and meet each other

while they entered to do some illegal act with some dishonest

intention. According to the arguments accused No.1, paved way

for accused 2 and 3 to get selection for the post of Junior Officer

(Mining) by collecting bribe in view of criminal conspiracy

between them. Further submitted that they need not be directly

participate even if a person paves way to act and object of

conspiracy is even if no active participation of each of them. In

this regard, relied on the ruling reported in (2017) 6 Supreme

Court Cases 1, in the case of Mukesh and another Vs.

State (NCT of Delhi) and Others . The observation made in the relevant
 paras, that the criminal thoughts in the mind
 when take concrete shape of an agreement to
 do or cause to be done an illegal act or an act
 which is not illegal by illegal means then if
 nothing further is done an agreement is
 designated as a criminal conspiracy. The
 proviso to Section 120-A engrafts a limitation
 that no agreement except an agreement to 127 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 commit an offence shall amount to a criminal
conspiracy unless some act besides the
agreement is done by one or more parties to
such agreement in pursuance thereof. Further the illegal act may or may not be done
in pursuance of an agreement but the mere
formation of an agreement is an offence and is
punishable. If acts done by two persons on the same
object, one performing one part of an act, and
the other another part of the same act, so as to
complete it. The reference of observation made in the case
of Noor Mohammad Mohd. Yusuf Momin Vs.
State of Maharashtra in which stated, a
criminal conspiracy from its very nature is
generally hatched in secrete, therefore, it can be
proved by circumstantial evidence. Further referred case of E.G.Barsay Vs.
State of Bombay wherein discussed, it is not
an ingredient of the offence that all the parties
should agree to do a single illegal act. It may
comprise the commission of a number of acts. Further the reference made about Kehar
Singh case in which discussed as the illegal act
may or may not be done in pursuance of
agreement, but the very agreement is an
offence and is punishable. With reference to 128 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 Section 120-A and 120-B Indian Penal Code
would make these aspects clear beyond doubt.
 Further, Generally, a conspiracy is hatched in
secrecy and it may be difficult to adduce direct
evidence of the same. Therefore, the acts of
various parties to infer that they were done in
reference to their common intention to be relied
on. It is sufficient that there was "a tacit
understanding between conspirators as to what
should be done" The various facts of criminal conspiracy
discussed in the case of Mir Nagvi Askari Vs.
CBI discussed and pointed out the ingredients
of criminal conspiracy. Further made an observation that whether the
two persons are independently pursuing the
same end or they have come together to pursue
the unlawful object as referred in the cases of
Damodara Vs. State of Rajasthan, Kehar
Singh Vs. State (Delhi Admn .) and State of
Mahrashtra Vs. Som Nath Thapa. The essence of a criminal conspiracy is the
unlawful combination and ordinarily the offence
is complete when the combination is framed. ...
no overt act need be done in furtherance of the
conspiracy, and that the object of the
combination need not be accomplished. The
agreement may be proved by necessary
implication. illegal means is the first and primary condition
 and it is not necessary that all the conspirators
 must know each and every detail of the
 conspiracy. Neither is it necessary that every
 one of the conspirators takes active part in the
 commission of each and every conspiratorial
 acts." Further held that what part each conspirator
 is to play may not be known to everyone or the
 fact as to when a conspirator joined the
 conspiracy and when he left. If two or more persons enter into a
 conspiracy, any act done by any of them
 pursuant to the agreement is, in contemplation
 of law, the act of each of them and they are
 jointly responsible therefor. An agreement of criminal conspiracy must be
 inferred from the circumstantial evidence of
 cooperation between the accused. 153. The learned Public Prosecutor submitted the factual

aspects that the case of CBI based on assumption, but it is not

for non-selection of PWs.3 and 4 for the post of Junior Officer 130 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 (Mining) who gave complaints to Chief Vigilance Officer, but no

other non-selected candidates given any complaint regarding

irregularities taken in the recruitment process of Junior Officer

(Mining). Further, even no Sanction obtained to prosecute

against accused Nos.2 and 3 who are shown as public servants in

the charge sheet, it is a technical aspect will not vitiate the

proceedings under Section 19(4) of Prevention of Corruption Act,

1988 to convict under Section 8 of Prevention of Corruption Act,

1988. 154. The points submitted relating to non-selection of

PW3 even though he was belonged to OBC category and

produced the OBC certificate in Central Format as per Ex.D4.

Therefore alleged disfavour shown to him by accused No.1.

Further pointed out the favour shown by accused No.1 to accused

No.2 and accused No.3 to select for the post of Junior Officer

(Mining) who would not have come into service. Therefore,

according to prosecution accused No.1 has misused his official

position and committed misconduct by way of receiving

pecuniary advantage in the form of making accused 2 and 3 to

get salary and other emoluments from the post of Junior Officer 131 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 (Mining). According to the learned Public Prosecutor, the chain of

circumstance elicited in the evidence of prosecution will complete

the alleged illegal act done by accused Nos.1 to 3 with dishonest

and fraudulent intention. Further accused No.2 induced accused

No.3 and other candidates to pay the bribe for get selection of

the post of Junior Officer (Mining). Therefore, submitted that

the offence under Section 8 of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988

attracts against accused No.2 and 3 on the basis of attempt

made by accused No.2 to get the bribe from different

candidates. 155. It is also pointed out by the learned Public

Prosecutor that OBC certificate not to be produced at later stage,

but the benefit of producing such certificate given to one of the

candidates, infers some favoursim shown by accused No.1 as no

opportunity given to PW3 to produce the same who has scored

highest marks in the written examination, who was not selected

for the above post. Therefore, on all the said grounds which

will amount cheating of PWs.3 and 4 who were not selected

candidates. Further submission made that the source

information received by CBI applies to any person can set law 132 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 into motion as per Section 39 (iii) of Cr.P.C. The investigation

report Ex.P65 also referred, which is corroborating document of

CBI and ancillary part of investigation. Further submitted that in

absence of no document to show money transferred to the

account of accused No.1 he cannot be exonerated. 156. It is pointed out that since accused 2 and 3 were

not public servants during the cause of action dtd.3.11.2012

which ends on 21.7.2013, no Sanction order obtained against

them. Moreover, Sanction is required against the person who

has committed misconduct to do an official act during discharge

of the official duty. Therefore, as the Sanction is required for

protection of official act required under Section 19 of Prevention

of Corruption Act, 1988 will not apply to accused No.2 and

accused No.3 as they were not public servants at the relevant

point of time. 157. The contention taken by accused 2 and 3 regarding

loan transaction of Rs.3,00,400/- to purchase the flat by accused

No.3 is denied by prosecution on the ground that the parents of

accused No.3 spent money for purchasing property in the name 133 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 of accused No.3 and his brother. In this regard pointed out the

PF accumulation amount of Rs.2,25,000/- borrowed as loan by

the father of accused No.3 on 26.12.2012 shown in Ex.P69 (a).

Likewise the mother of accused No.3 sold the property for

Rs.2,40,000/- on 18.5.2013 as per Ex.P96. Father of accused

No.3 also obtained loan by pledging gold as per the receipts

Ex.P99 to 102. Subsequently on 3.7.2013, the property

purchased in the name of accused No.3 and his brother for

Rs.2,19,000/- each as per the sale deeds Ex.P93 and 94.

Therefore, submitted that the evidence of parents of accused

No.3 and the vendor produced before the Court only to prove

that the funds generated from PPF loan, Gold Loan and the

property sold by the mother of accused No.3, to purchase the

property, which will not prove the case of accused No.3 as loan

borrowed from accused No.2 to purchase the flat. It is also

submitted that the copy of DPN produced by accused No.2

cannot be considered in proof of the genuine loan borrowed by

accused No.3 which was not repaid with interest. Further argued

that the date and purpose of loan not elicited in the cross-

examination of witnesses, though they have admitted the loan

borrowed by accused No.3 from accused No.2. 158. The learned Counsel for accused No.1 has

submitted that the prosecution has failed to prove the alleged

criminal conspiracy by accused No.1 with accused Nos.2 and 3

and other allegations made against him in the charge sheet. The

evidence of all the prosecution witnesses brought to the notice

of the Court and particularly P.W.7 who has deposed that at

initial stage itself PW3 was considered as General as not

produced the OBC certificate in the Central Format. Therefore,

on the ground of non-production of said document, he was

shown in General category at later stage during interview he has

produced the OBC certificate in Central Format and since he was

aged less than 35 years and not having sufficient experience in

the Mining filed, not considered as OBC candidate and also not

selected for the post of Junior Officer (Mining). 159. The learned Counsel submitted that the Ruling relied

by learned Public Prosecutor is not applicable to the facts of the

case as distinction made with nature of the case. Because, in the

said Ruling, the accused entered in to a criminal conspiracy to kill

others by way of employing persons and involved in the murder 135 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 case in which, all of them need not know each other. But in the

case on hand, allegation made against accused No.1 who is a

public officer said to be induced accused No.2 to demand and

collect bribe from accused No.3 and other candidates, in turn, at

the instance of accused No.1, accused No.2 collected the bribe

amount. However, the allegation made in charge sheet

regarding bribe amount paid to accused No.1 is not corroborated

by any document. Moreover, for criminal conspiracy, all the

conspirators must know each other to do some illegal act,

because meeting of minds of accused persons is important, which

is not proved before the Court. 160. Further submitted the agreement entered between

accused Nos.1 and 2 at any point of time to do an illegal act and

there was meeting of minds between accused Nos.1 and 2 is not

proved by prosecution. Because accused No.2 never took the

name of accused No.1 at any point of time. The chain of

circumstances to prove the allegation made against accused

Nos.1 to 3 as to criminal conspiracy entered between them,

accused No.1 induced accused No.2 to collect bribe and accused

No.3 paid bribe and selected for the post of Junior Officer 136 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 (Mining) are not completed in the case of prosecution. The name

of accused No.1 is taken who is alleged to be responsible for the

offence under Section.120-B Indian Penal Code on the ground

that induced accused Nos.2 and 3 to collect the bribe by way of

paving the path is also not proved. 161. In support of arguments submitted on behalf of

accused No.1, the learned Counsel has relied on the following

Rulings:- (i) (2005) 12 Supreme Court Cases 631 in the
 case of K.R.Purushothaman Vs. State of Kerala . The Hon'ble Supreme Court has
 observed in relevant paras 13 to 15 regarding
 "to constitute a conspiracy meeting of minds of
 two or more persons for doing an illegal act or
 an act by illegal means is the first and primary
 condition and it is not necessary that all the
 conspirators must know each and every detail of
 conspiracy."----- The agreement amongst
 conspirators can be inferred by necessary
 implication.------The conspiracies are proved by
 the circumstantial evidence as the conspiracy is
 seldom an open affair. The existence of
 conspiracy and its objects are usually deduced
 from the circumstances of the case and the 137 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 conduct of the accused involved in the
conspiracy. While appreciating the evidence of
the conspiracy, it is incumbent on the court to
keep in mind the well known rule governing
circumstantial evidence viz, each and every
incriminating circumstance must be clearly
established by reliable evidence and be
circumstances proved must form a chain of
events from which the only irresistible
conclusion about the guilt of the accused can be
safely drawn, and no other hypothesis against
the guilty is possible. ---- Conspiracy consists of
the scheme or adjustment between two or more
persons which may be express or implied or
partly express and partly implied. Mere
knowledge, even discussion, of the plan would
not per se constitute conspiracy. Suspicion cannot take legal proof and
prosecution would be required to prove each and
every circumstance in the chain of
circumstances as to complete the chain. Further observed that it is cumulative effect of
the proved circumstances which should be taken
into account in determining the guilt of the
accused. Of course, each one of the
circumstances should be proved beyond
reasonable doubt. The acts or conduct of the 138 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 parties must be conscious and clear enough to
 infer their concurrence as to the common design
 and its execution. (ii) (2009) 8 Supreme Court Cases 617 - State of

Madhya Pradesh Vs. Sheetla Sahai and others .

 The Hon'ble Supreme Court discussed on Section 13 (1) (d) (ii) and (iii) read with Section 13 (2) and Section

 120-A Indian Penal Code regarding criminal misconduct.

 The observation made in the relevant paras as follows:- Further in the case of fraud and criminal
 conspiracy alleged against accused the question
 with regard to doctrine of parity should be
 considered by Special Judge. Only on the
 ground an accused similarly situated has not
 been proceeded against only because, the
 departmental proceedings ended in his favour.
 Whether an accused before him although stands
 on a similar footing despite he having not been
 departmentally proceeded against or had not
 been completely exonerated also required to be
 considered. Whether the exonerated officer in
 the departmental proceeding also faced same
 charges including the charge of being a party to
 the larger conspiracy. essential ingredients of offences under section
 7 and 13 (1) (d) read with Section 13(2) of
 Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. In the
 relevant para 15 referred the ruling reported in C.K.Damoodaran Nair Vs. Government of
 India to consider the word "obtained" the
 valuable thing or pecuniary advantage by
 corrupt or illegal means or by otherwise abusing
 his position as a public servant is to be proved
 by the prosecution. The legal position is no more res integra that
 primary requisite of an offence under Section
 13(1) (d) of the Act is proof of a demand or
 request of a valuable thing or pecuniary
 advantage from the public servant. In the
 absence of proof of demand or request from the
 public servant for a valuable thing or a
 pecuniary advantage, the offence under Section
 13(1) (d) cannot be held to be established. (iv) 2002 (5) Supreme Court Cases 86 in the case of Subash Parbat Sonvane Vs. State of Gujarat . The Hon'ble Supreme Court discussed on
 obtaining pecuniary advantage contemplates an
 element of effort or initiative on the part of the
 receiver of the advantage. Mere acceptance of
 money without their being any other evidence
 would not be sufficient for convicting the
 accused under Section.13 (1) (d) of Prevention
 of Corruption Act, 1988. For convicting the person under the said
 section there must be evidence on record that
 the accused "obtained" for himself or for any
 other person, any valuable thing or pecuniary
 advantage by either corrupt or illegal means or
 by abusing his position as a public servant or he
 obtained for any person valuable thing or
 pecuniary advantage without any public interest.

 Further discussed the statutory presumption
 under Section 20 of the Prevention of
 Corruption Act, 1988 and is available for the
 offence punishable under Section 11 or clause (a) or clause (b) of sub-section (1) of Section 13. (v) ILR 2001 KAR 5687 in the case of Mahesh Joshi
IB (P) Vs. State by Central Bureau of Investigation/SPE,
Bengaluru. The Hon'ble High Court of Karnataka held
that Case of conspiracy under Section 120B Indian Penal Code alleged cannot be interfered
even faintly as there could not have been any
agreement between the first accused and the
other accused as they were in charge of the post
of Director at different points of time and none
of them worked together. And the facts alleged
also do not fit-in into any of the "acts or
omissions: which constitute offences under Section 13 of Prevention of Corruption Act
particularly when admittedly there is no
allegation against the subsequent Director A4-
Petitioner that he had taken any undue favour or
illegal gratification for continuing Telecast of the
disputed sponsored programme." The Hon'ble High Court in relevant
paras discussed that it cannot be inferred even
faintly that there has been agreement between
accused No.1 to accused No.4 and the other
accused inter se, to do any alleged illegal act. The discussions made that the
provisions of law and the facts put forth by the
CBI in the said ruling does not anywhere
indicate that the acts alleged can fit into any of
the defined acts or omissions which constitute
offence under Section 13 of the Act. The
petitioner caused loss to the organization by his
inaction of the said case held as not proved. Likewise, the material facts of the said case
 opined as it would not fit into any acts and
 omissions which are defined as an offence under Section.13 of the Act as there is no allegation
 against the petitioner that he had taken any
 undue favour or illegal gratification for allowing
 disputed telecast. Further observed that there might be a
 technical flaw in allowing the telecast for about
 three days before the modified rates came to be
 effective. Therefore held there is no faintest
 prima facie material to hold the petitioner guilty
 of the offence under Section 13 of the Act and
 for an offence of criminal conspiracy. 162. The learned Counsel for accused No.2 submitted

that the prosecution has not obtained sanction to prosecute

accused No.2 and 3 and also no ingredients in proof of the

offence committed by them under Section 120B of Indian Penal

Code 420 Indian Penal Code Section 8 of Prevention of

Corruption Act, 1988. The learned Counsel pointed out a specific

allegation made against accused No.2 as a public servant

working as Junior Officer (Mining) and no Sanction Order

obtained to prosecute against him. Therefore, under Section 196

(2) Cr.P.C. in absence of sanction or consent entire proceedings 145 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 vitiated. Further submitted no witness has deposed that accused

No.2 talked with accused No.1 and he has induced by him to

collect the bribe to attract the offence under Section 8 of

Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. No documents produced to

show the bribe amount paid by accused No.2 to the accused

No.1. The amount deposited by accused No.3 relating to the

loan borrowed by him for purchase of flat. Further submitted

that PW3 has admitted that accused No.2 is his friend and he

never demanded bribe over phone. The call details produced

before the Court will not prove the demand of bribe by the

accused No.2 from accused No.3 and others. The OBC certificate

produced by PW3 is of the year 2000 which was valid only for six

months. Since both accused 2 and 3 were friends they called

over phone. Further the conversation between accused No.2 and

3 will not amount demand of bribe. Moreover, PW4 was called by

accused No.2 on 26.6.2013 which will not amount demand of

bribe made by him. Because prior to that, PW4 himself made

two calls to the mobile of accused No.2, the reason of the same

not explained before the Court. The amount deposited by

accused No.3 on 15.7.2013 to the account of accused No.2

admittedly towards the loan borrowed by him from accused No.2 146 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 as admitted in the cross-examination of PW21. The learned

Counsel further relied on the documents produced along with the

written statement and submitted that no nexus between accused

No.1 and 2 and no talks between them. There were six members

in the Interview Committee to award the marks since accused

Nos.2 and 3 were eligible candidates selected by the said

committee. Further the accused No.2 is not a competent

authority to select the candidates for the post of Junior Officer

(Mining), therefore no occasion for him to act at the instance of

accused No.1 to collect the bribe from accused No.3 and other

candidates. 163. In support of the arguments the learned counsel for

accused No.2 has relied on the following Rulings: The Hon'ble Supreme Court held that mere
 circumstance that accused in spite of being the
 dealing person in the office, referred the
 complainant to co-accused for being appraised
 of as to what the complainant had to do in
 regard to his work, held, does not lead to a 147 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 definite and unerring inference of criminal
 conspiracy between two accused to obtain bribe - Other circumstances having material
 contradictions and not firmly established - Since
 circumstantial evidence did not definitely point
 towards the guilt of offence under Section 120B Indian Penal Code and Section 5(1)(d) of
 Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 held,
 conviction of the appellate not justified. (ii) AIR 2006 SC 35 in the case of K.R.Purushothaman Vs. State of Kerala . The observation made by the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court that for the offence under Section 120B Indian Penal Code - No evidence
 on record to show agreement between
 conspirators to misappropriate gold - accused
 not held guilty of conspiracy. Further accused could not be convicted under Section 13 (1) (c) and (d) of Prevention of
 Corruption Act, 1988 - If the property in
 question neither entrusted nor was under control
 of accused who has not obtained for himself or
 for any other person any valuable thing or
 pecuniary advantage. (iii) 1995 (1) Supreme Court Cases 142 in the
case of P.K.Narayanan Vs. State of Kerala . The Hon'le Supreme Court held that an
 offence of criminal conspiracy cannot be deemed
 to have been established on mere suspicion and
 surmises or inferences which are not supported
 by cogent evidence. The ingredients of the
 offence of criminal conspiracy are that there
 should be an agreement between the persons
 who are alleged to conspire and the said
 agreement should be for doing of an illegal act
 or for doing by illegal means an act which by
 itself may not be illegal. The essence of
 criminal conspiracy is an agreement to do an
 illegal act and such an agreement can be proved
 either by direct evidence or by circumstantial
 evidencse or by both and it is a matter of
 common experience that direct evidence to
 prove conspiracy is rarely available.---- Even if
 some facts are proved to have been committed
 it must be clear that they were so committed in
 pursuance of an agreement made between the
 accused who were parties to the alleged
 conspiracy. Inferences from such proved
 circumstances regarding guilt may be drawn
 only when such circumstances are incapable of
 any other reasonable explanation. (vi) 2015(7) Supreme Court Cases 178 in the case
of Tomaso Bruno and another Vs. State of Uttar
Pradesh . creates serious doubts about prosecution case.
 The contents of document can be proved by
 secondary evidence as provided under Section
 65-B of Evidence Act. 164. The learned Counsel for accused No.3 has adopted

the submission made on behalf of accused No.1 and accused

No.2. Further in-continuation has submitted that the

Investigating Officer has not seized the amount of Rs.3,00,400/-

alleged to be bribe amount paid by accused No.3 to accused No.2

for selection of post of Junior Officer (Mining), though the said

amount was kept in the account of accused No.2 till the filing of

charge sheet on 31.12.2014. Further submitted the allegation

made against accused No.3 in the charge sheet relating to the

above amount deposited to the account of accused No.2 on

15.7.2013 and selected by dishonest and fraudulent means.

However, accused No.2 has withdrawn the amount of 150 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 Rs.4,65,000/- on 28.6.2013 from Axis Bank as per self-cheque

Ex.P85 and out of which, paid a sum of Rs.3,00,000/- as a loan

to accused No.3 to purchase two properties. After borrowing the

said loan accused No.3 had purchased the property on 3.7.2013

under the sale deed Ex.P93. Further since the accused No.2

insisted for the repayment of said loan accused No.3 made

arrangement to deposit the amount of Rs.3,00,000/- on

15.7.2013 to the account of accused No.2. It is also pointed out

since the accused No.2 and 3 are friends and as the loan amount

deposited within a month, accused No.2 did not insist for any

interest on the loan amount. Further the gold loan amount

borrowed by father of accused No.3 on 13.7.2013 as seen from

Ex.P99 also credited to the account of accused No.2. The

learned Counsel further pointed out that though the charge for

the offence under Section 120-B and 420 Indian Penal Code

alleged against the accused No.3, the prosecution has not

produced any illegal agreement entered by him with accused

No.1 and accused No.2 as well as cheated the NMDC. 165. Further submitted no proof placed by prosecution

relating to, when the accused No.3 met accused No.1 and 151 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 accused No.2 and where they have conspired and entered into

illegal agreement. No circumstantial evidence placed to complete

the chain of offence relating to criminal conspiracy. Further the

name of accused No.3 not mentioned in the FIR and later in

charge sheet his name mentioned on the false grounds. The

charge under Section 420 Indian Penal Code also not proved as

manner of cheating committed by accused No.3 produced before

the court. The evidence of Investigating Officer PW62 brought to

the notice of Court with documents relating to the account of

accused No.2, in whose account the sufficient balance amount

was shown as on 31.12.2013 which is supported by the evidence

of PW46. Further, no proof produced by prosecution whether any

amount withdrawn from the account of accused No.2 and paid to

accused No.1. Moreover, the amount deposited by the accused

No.3 through Bank cannot be said bribe. The termination of

accused No.3 and he was directed to be reinstated as per the

orders passed by Hon'ble High Court of Karnataka in Writ Petition

No.1058/2015 also brought to the notice of Court. 166. I have perused the case of prosecution alleged

against accused 1 to 3 in the charge sheet with oral documentary 152 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 evidence placed before the Court with the defence taken by the

accused Nos.1 to 3 in the written statements filed under Section

313(5) of Cr.P.C. It is important to point out that, in the charge

sheet the accused No.1 shown as Assistant General Manager

(Personnel), accused Nos.2 and 3 shown as Junior Officer

(Mining) of NMDC, Donimalai and all of them have alleged to be

committed the offence punishable under Section 120-B read with

420 Indian Penal Code and Section 13(2) read with 13(1)(d) of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 . However, the Investigating

Officer, who has filed the charge sheet has clearly mentioned

that the Sanction Order against accused No.1 was await from the

Competent Authority and it will be filed after its receipt. 167. However, no clarification given as to Sanction Order

not obtained to prosecute against accused No.2 and accused

No.3, though they were specifically shown as Junior Officer

(Mining), NMDC, Donimalai. The learned Public Prosecutor has

submitted that since accused Nos.2 and 3 were not public

servants as on the date of commencement of offence, Sanction

not obtained against them. However, even if it is considered that

allegation made relating to criminal conspiracy with accused 153 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 No.1, taking illegal gratification to pay to public servants of

NMDC by accused Nos.2 and 3 started from December-2012 prior

to the written examination conducted on 23.6.2013 and oral

interview on 21.7.2013, accused Nos.2 and 3 were shown as

public servants by mentioning Junior Officer (Mining) while filing

charge sheet. Moreover, the date of commencement of alleged

offence by accused Nos.1 and 2 as submitted is not specifically

stated in the FIR marked as Ex.P228. It is important to point out

the period of commencement of offence mentioned in the FIR at

Serial No.3(b) under which Day, Date and Time as during the

year 2012-2013. The date of information received at police

station mentioned under Column(c) is 10.12.2013. Therefore,

it is very clear that the date of information received on

10.12.2013, on which date, the accused No.2 and 3 were public

servants as Junior Officer (Mining) at NMDC. 168. However, the court cannot presume the exact Day,

Date and Time of commencement of offence from December

2012 ends on 21.7.2013, only on the submission made before

the Court by learned Public Prosecutor, when the details of which

are not specifically mentioned in the relevant column. There was 154 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 no difficulty or reason for the Investigating Officer not to mention

the exact date of commencement of the offence in the month of

December 2012, when the relevant columns provided in the FIR.

Further it is not explained as to the exact date of information

received at the police station, but it is noted in the FIR as on

10.12.2013, without mentioning exact date of offence in the year

2012. 169. However, even if the case of the prosecution alleged

in the charge sheet is considered, then accused Nos.2 and 3 were

not the public servants, against whom no Sanction obtained by

prosecution. However, the charges alleged against accused

Nos.1 to 3 who are shown as public servants in the capacity of

Assistant General Manager (Personnel) and Junior Officers

(Mining) respectively of NMDC, Donimalai. Therefore, the

prosecution should have clarified the aspect relating to whether

any attempt made to get the Sanction to prosecute against

accused Nos.2 and 3 when they were specifically shown as Junior

Officer (Mining) of NMDC. Because as on the date of filing of

charge sheet, that is, on 31.12.2014, all the accused Nos.1 to 3

shown as public servants, but Sanction obtained only against 155 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 accused No.1 under Ex.P255, which cannot be considered as

issued by the Competent Authority after application of mind.

However, the submission made by the learned Public Prosecutor

since no official work discharged by the accused Nos.2 and 3 and

no criminal misconduct alleged against them, sanction not

necessary is against the provision of Law as no satisfactory

materials placed in proof of the alleged offence. 170. The learned Public Prosecutor has submitted that

based on circumstantial evidence case of prosecution is proved

against accused Nos.1 to 3, who were entered into criminal

conspiracy and cheated NMDC. However, in view of observation

made by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the Rulings cited for

the accused No.1, the ingredients of Section 120-B Indian

Penal Code should be agreement entered between the parties

and meeting of minds to do an illegal act with dishonest

intention. The alleged criminal conspiracy by accused Nos.1 to

3 is not proved by the prosecution, though learned Public

Prosecutor submitted in proof of the said offence circumstantial

evidence has been placed before the Court, for the reason no

direct evidence is able to produce, is however, not acceptable as 156 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 no corroboration in the evidence of prosecution witnesses.

Because the oral evidence of witnesses with documents discussed

above will no way establish or prove the ingredients of Criminal

Conspiracy punishable under Section 120-B Indian Penal

Code as defined under Section 120-A of Indian Penal Code,

reads as follows, - When two or more persons agree to do,

or cause to be done,- (1) an illegal act, or

 (2) an act which is not illegal by illegal
 means, such an agreement is designated a
 criminal conspiracy: Prosecution has failed to prove that the conspiracy between

accused No.1 with accused Nos.2 and 3 to do the alleged act of

collecting bribe which was accepted by accused No.1 to do favour

to his candidates and disfavour to candidate PW3 who was not

paid the bribe for the selection for post of Junior Officer (Mining).

Further the evidence of official witnesses disclosed that accused

No.1 is also one of the member of interview and another 158 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 committee constituted during recruitment process of Junior

Officer (Mining) at NMDC, Donimalai. The admission made by

PW12 Executive Director infers that no single officer entrusted

with the recruitment process, particularly accused No.1 who was

head of Personnel Department. Therefore, the prosecution ought

to have establish the manner of which adopted by accused No.1

to cheat the NMDC. Though the learned Public Prosecutor has

submitted that mere selection of accused No.2 and accused No.3

for the post of Junior Officer (Mining), who were not eligible for

the said post, itself amounts cheating is not supported by any

corroboration of oral and documentary evidence. Because, both

accused No.2 and 3 were selected as per the rules of NMDC. The

prosecution has failed to establish the ingredients of either Section 13(1) (c) or (d) of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 ,

which reads as follows: 13(2) Any public servant who commits
 criminal misconduct shall be punishable
 with imprisonment for a term which shall be
 not less than four years but which may
 extend to ten years and shall also be liable to
 fine. 172. Though the prosecution alleged the charge under Section 13(1) (d) of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, this

Court took cognizance of offence 13(1)(c) of said Act, the

prosecution has failed to prove the ingredients of either Section

13(1)(c) or (d) of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 against

accused No.1. Because, the evidence of prosecution witnesses 160 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 will not prove the accused No.1 dishonestly or fraudulently

misappropriated or converted for his own use any property

entrusted to him, which was under his control as a public servant

or allows any other person to do so. Likewise, no proof relating

to by corrupt or illegal means obtained for himself or any other

person any valuable thing or pecuniary advantage without any

public interest. In the absence said important proof of

misappropriation of property or obtaining any valuable thing or

pecuniary advantage obtained for himself or for any other

person, there cannot be any criminal misconduct committed by

him. Moreover, no evidence placed by prosecution in proof of

accused No.1 being public servant in view of criminal conspiracy

entrusted accused No.2 and accused No.3 to do an illegal act for

himself. Another important aspect is that there is no proof

placed before the Court relating to entrustment of entire

recruitment process for the post of Junior Officer (Mining) to the

accused No.1 and he was alone responsible for the selection of

candidates for the said post. Therefore, the allegation made

against accused No.1 either alleged misappropriation of property

entrusted to him or allowing accused No.2 and accused No.3 to 161 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 obtain pecuniary advantage for himself or others can be said

false. 173. Further, charge under Section 8 of Prevention of

Corruption Act, 1988 framed against accused No.2, who was also

said to be attempted to get bribe from accused No.3 and other

candidates to induce accused No.1 a public servant to do an

illegal act. It is true the evidence of PWs.3, 4 and 32 placed

before the Court reveal that accused No.2 called them over

phone and disclosed about bribe amount to be paid for selection

of post of Junior Officer (Mining) to the officials of NMDC. Though

the prosecution evidence is silent about who are those officials

demanded the bribe through accused No.2, whether accused

No.1 or other officials of NMDC, the above said witnesses are

clearly stated that accused No.2 did not mention names of any of

the official of NDMC, including accused No.1. Further the

evidence of official witnesses PW5 and PW29 disclose that

accused No.2 approached them and made known his intention to

pay bribe amount for getting post of Junior Officer (Mining) after

giving application for the said post, which will establish that the

accused No.2 made an attempt to pay the bribe to get his 162 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 selection as Junior Officer (Mining). Though the documents

produced before the Court shows that he was seventh in the

Merit list of candidates in the written test held on 23.6.2013 and

interview held on 21.7.2013 for Junior Officer (Mining), the

evidence deposed by PW5 and PW29, being officials of NMDC

certainly proves the attempt made by accused No.2 to get the

post of Junior Officer (Mining) by way of illegal method. No

explanation offered by accused No.2 as to the reason why PW5

and PW29 deposed against him regarding approach made with an

intention to pay bribe to get the selection for the above post. It

is true his roll number given JN-096 categorized under General

category secured 62 marks out of 100 in the written test and in

the oral interview secured 18.17 out of 30 marks and aggregate

of marks shown at 61.57 out of 100 secured by him and he was

also shown as OBC candidate in the admit card issued under

Ex.P91. However, the checklist Ex.P30 shows though category

claimed OBC, he was shown General category for non-production

certificate as per the norms. The accused No.1 gave marks 16

for 30 in the oral interview as on 21.7.2013, when other

members of Interview Committee given more marks like 22 and

20 out of 30 marks. Therefore, even though, no favour shown by 163 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 accused No.1 to accused No.2 while giving marks in the oral

interview, the attitude of accused No.2 who had called the

candidates PWs.3, 4 and 32 and made known them to pay bribe

to get selection of Junior Officer (Mining), certainly proves the

attempt made by him to get the post of Junior Officer (Mining)

for himself and induced them to pay bribe on the assurance that

he will get their selection for the said post. However, he has

been selected for the said post and subsequently removed by

the NMDC. But the prosecution has not placed any supporting

and corroborating evidence that only after paying the bribe

amount he was selected for the above post. 174. Further, the above merit list mentioned that

accused No.3 stood at No.17 given No.JM-025 under General

category secured 55 marks in the written test and 18 marks in

the oral interview. The assessment sheet relating to him marked

under Ex.P67 reveal that accused No.1 gave marks 18 for 30 in

the oral interview as on 21.7.2013, whereas other Interview

Committee members gave marks more than that as 23 and 19

apart from 14, 16 and 18 for total marks of 30. Therefore, it can

be said that accused No.3 might not have paid bribe to accused 164 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 No.2 to get the post of Junior Officer (Mining). Subsequently he

got selected for the said post without paying any bribe. Because,

if the amount said to be paid towards repayment of loan was a

bribe amount as alleged by prosecution, the same amount would

have been given to accused No.1 or any other officials of NMDC

before his appointment as Junior Officer (Mining). 175. For the candidate Venkatasudarshan against whom,

accused No.1 alleged to be shown favour in awarding marks in

the oral interview is contrary to the document produced by the

prosecution. Because the oral interview accused No.1 awarded

18 marks whereas, other members awarded him more than that

as 22, 19 ½ apart from 15 and 16 for marks of 30. The

selected candidate PW32 also awarded sufficient marks by other

committee members apart from accused No.1. 176. Further the allegation made against accused No.1

that lesser marks awarded to PWs.3 and 4 though seen from the

records that both of the witnesses awarded 11.5 each for 30

marks, other committee members awarded more marks to both

of them in the oral interview. However, the selection of other 165 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 candidates PWs.32, 53, 54, 58 and 65 did not say anything

about the demand of bribe made by accused No.2 or they were

paid bribe to the accused No.1 or any other officials of NMDC to

get selection for the post of Junior Officer (Mining). Therefore,

on what basis the prosecution alleged against accused No.1 that

he has shown disfavour to PW3 and favour to other candidates is

not explained before the Court. Moreover, it can be said that PW3

though not complied the requirement of production of OBC

certificate in the Central Format along with application, he was

called for interview as scored highest marks in the written test.

However, the OBC certificate produced in the Central Format

during the interview not considered by the scrutiny committee as

he was already categorized under General candidate. Because,

the important condition of the OBC certificate in the Central

Format annexed to application is not complied by PW3 at the

time of filing the application for the post of Junior Officer

(Mining). Moreover, the OBC certificate said to be produced

under Ex.D4 is dated 10.7.2013 produced at the time of

interview not considered by the Interview Committee as the

same was not produced along with the application in compliance

of condition that, the OBC certificate ought to have been 166 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 obtained prior to six months as on the date of submitting the

application. Therefore, the OBC certificate produced in Central

Format as per Ex.D4 is not proper. Further, the document

Ex.D11 is a Service Certificate of one G.Ahil Rao S/o.Koteswa

Rao, who worked as Mines Engineer from 20.4.2004 to

21.6.2005 in Indus Projects Pvt.Ltd., Hyderabad. 177. Therefore, for the above said reason since PW3 has

not complied the conditions of Notification Ex.D3, it can be said

he might not have selected for post of Junior Officer (Mining).

Moreover, the prosecution has failed to prove any ill-will between

accused No.1 and PW3 to show disfavour against him as alleged

in the charge sheet. The important aspect is the Vigilance Officer

made known the reason of bribery allegation against PW3 for not

selecting him for the post Junior Officer (Mining), when PW3 met

him subsequent to pronouncement of result of the said post. It

is also important to point out that only after coming to know

about his non-selection for the reason of bribery allegation he

gave complaint to the Chief Vigilance Officer alleging about the

irregularities in the recruitment process of Junior Officer (Mining)

at NMDC. But nothing stated about bribe or demand for bribe 167 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 made by accused No.1 or accused No.2 or accused No.3 in the

complaint given under Ex.P54. 178. Likewise, PW4, another non selected candidate gave

complaint under Ex.P61 to Chief Vigilance Officer, alleging about

phone call demanding some amount for selection of post of

Junior Officer (Mining) before oral interview as on 28.6.2013

requested to enquiry about the recruitment as he was not

selected though attended oral interview on 21.7.2013. In the

said complaint also he has not stated anything about demand of

bribe by accused No.1 or accused No.2 or accused No.3. The

statement given before 17th ACCM Bangalore as per Ex.P62, is

about demand made by accused No.2 for payment of Rs.3 to 5

lakhs as bribe, to select for the post of Junior Officer (Mining),

but the same is not stated in the complaint. However, he has

disclosed about approach made to CVO and complaint given

under Ex.P61. He did not mention the name of accused No.1

either in the complaint or in the statement given under Ex.P62.

From the said documents, which does not disclose the name of

accused No.1, who was being public servant as AGM in NMDC

alleged to be obtained valuable thing or pecuniary advantage by 168 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 corrupt or illegal means without any public interest as provided

under Section 13 (1)(d) of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988.

However, the ingredients of offence under Section 13(1) (c) of

Prevention of Corruption Act, for which, this Court has taken

cognizance against accused No.1 also not placed before the

Court. 179. The prosecution alleged that accused No.2 at the

instigation of accused No.1 has demanded bribe from accused

No.3 and collected Rs.3,00,400/- to pay to accused No.1. In

support of the same, prosecution relied on the statements of

account relating to accused No.2, in which the total amount of

Rs.3,00,400/- deposited as on 15.7.2013 by the accused No.3.

It is true, the document Ex.P82(a) statement of account of A-2 in

Axis Bank reveal that the total amount of Rs.1,50,500/- credited

and the amount of Rs.1,49,900/- credited to his another account

maintained in SBI. It is alleged that the amount of Rs.3,00,400/-

said to be paid by accused No.3 through his brother-in-law and

others towards the bribe for getting post of Junior Officer

(Mining), which will not prove the allegation made against him.

Because according to the defence of accused No.2, he has paid 169 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 loan amount of Rs.3,00,000/- to accused No.3 for purchasing flat

after withdrawing the amount of Rs.4,65,000/- on 28.6.2013 as

could been from his self Cheque marked as Ex.P85. Since

accused No.2 demanded the repayment of the said amount,

accused No.3 made arrangement to pay the amount without

interest through his brother and his brother-in-law who were also

examined before the Court. 180. The defence taken by accused No.3 is supported by

the evidence of PWs.21 to 23 who were clearly stated that the

amount of Rs.1,00,000/- deposited to the account of accused

No.2 as could been from Ex.P74. Likewise, the brother of

accused No.3 requested PW21 to deposit amount of

Rs.1,00,000/- as requested by him. In the cross-examination

clear admission made by them that the amount mentioned in

Ex.P74 is relating to the loan availed by accused No.3 from

accused No.2. Further property purchased by accused No.3

under Ex.P93 and his brother under Ex.P94, the certified copies

of the said sale deeds dated 4.7.2013 identified by respective

Sub-Registrar examined as PW.27 - Srilakshmi, who is the

Sub-Registrar of Vatluru, West Godavari District has identified 170 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 the certified copies of document Nos.2510 and 2511/13 dated

4.7.2013, which were registered in the same office marked as

per Exs.P93 and 94, handed over to CBI with covering letter

Ex.P95. 181. However, the arguments submitted by learned Public

Prosecutor that there was no necessity for accused No.3 to

borrow loan of Rs.3,00,000/- from accused No.2 to purchase the

property. Because the sale consideration of the property

purchased under Ex.P93 in the name of accused No.3 was paid

by his parents from the funds generated through PPF loan, Gold

loan and sale consideration from sale of the property under

Ex.P96 by the mother of accused No.3. However, the same is

not proved by prosecution by supporting oral and documentary

evidence. Because in the oral evidence the witnesses clearly

admitted that the amount deposited to the account of accused

No.2 is with respect to the loan borrowed by accused No.3.

Moreover, there was no necessity for the parents of accused No.3

to purchase the property after accumulating the funds from

various sources, that too, in the names of their sons accused

No.3 and his brother. 182. Further, balance amount of Rs.1,06,469.23 found in

the account of accused No.2 maintained in Axis Bank as on

28.12.2013. It is also made out that amount of Rs.1,83,233.52

was in State Bank of India as on 31.10.2013 and Rs.1,96,354.88

as on 5.9.2014. Likewise, the total amount of Rs.3 to 4 lakhs

was kept in his account at Axis Bank, not withdrawn during the

period after completion of written examination and oral interview

as well as subsequently as on the date 5.9.2013 when he was

appointed for the post of Junior Officer (Mining). It is important

to point out that accused No.2 did not withdraw the amount

deposited by accused No.3 during the recruitment process taken

from 23.6.2013 date of written examination till 5.9.2013 when

his selection as Junior Officer (Mining) in NMDC. If really the

amount of Rs.3,00,400/- deposited in the account of accused

No.2 was bribe amount, the same would have been withdrawn

and given to the accused No.1 for getting selection as Junior

Officer (Mining) in NMDC. But no such proof placed by

prosecution either by direct evidence or by circumstantial

evidence. Because, as admitted by the learned Public Prosecutor

there is no direct evidence placed in proof of the allegations of 172 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 cheating or bribe demanded and accepted either by accused No.1

or by accused No.2 or bribe paid by accused No.3. However,

even the circumstantial evidence placed through official and

other independent witnesses placed by the prosecution is taken

into consideration, the same will not prove the criminal

conspiracy and cheating by accused Nos.1 to 3. 183. However, the documents reveal that accused No.1

gave lesser marks to accused No.2 during the interview and he

along with accused No.3 were got selected on the basis of

procedure followed in the NMDC. The important aspect is

complaint given by PW3 and PW4 will not disclose criminal

conspiracy between accused Nos.1 to 3. The important fact to be

noted that PW3 himself was undergoing bribery allegation of

attempted to give bribe to NMDC officials to get the post of

Junior Officer (Mining). 184. The evidence of all the official witnesses and

independent witnesses will not prove the entire allegation made

against accused Nos.1 to 3. The documents relied by the

prosecution, which are statements of account relating to accused 173 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 No.2, will not disclose anything about the amount deposited by

accused No.3 was towards bribe, which was subsequently paid to

accused No.1 and got selected for the post of Junior Officer

(Mining). Further, the call details produced by the Nodal Officers

PW48 and PW57 can be considered as the proof of attempt made

by accused No.2 with PW3 and other candidates who were

applied for the post of Junior Officer (Mining) to pay bribe for

getting post of Junior Officer (Mining). The evidence of PWs.3, 4,

5 and 32, is sufficient to come to conclusion about the attempt

made by the accused No.2 for demand of bribe amount to pay to

any officials of NMDC or may be for himself. 185. Further, the allegation made regarding accused No.1

dishonestly and fraudulently in order to show favour to the

candidates of his choice, not accepted the OBC certificate of

eligible candidates. In connection with said allegation, referred

the application given by PW3 Gungi Ankamma Rao, marked as

Ex.P52. The said candidate given roll number JM-55 and after

scrutiny he was categorized as OBC candidate, who was said to

be shown under General category, has not produced OBC

certificate in Central Format. Further, allegation made that 174 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 though PW3 had actual experience of 6 years 2 months only the

experience of 5 years 9 months shown. But the evidence of PW3

which is already discussed above, infers that the necessary

requirement of production of OBC certificate in the Central

Format not complied, though it was produced at later stage

during interview, which was not considered by the recruitment

authority. Therefore, the accused No.1 cannot be blamed for

decision taken by the competent authority during the recruitment

process. However, on the application given by PW3, marked

under Ex.P52 a note made OBC certificate not produced at the

time of scrutiny of documents. Therefore, he was considered as

candidate of General Category. Further, the service certificate

annexed to his application marked as Ex.D11, relates to one

G.Ahil.Rao, who is not PW3. It shows giving false information by

PW3, which is nothing but, cheating the NMDC by producing

service certificate of another person. Moreover, admittedly he

had experience of only two and half years in the Mining field and

three years in the Construction Field. But as per the Notification

five years experience was to be required in the mining field.

Apart from that, he was aged below 35 years and had lesser 175 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 experience. Therefore, it can be said that PW3 has not complied

the mandatory requirements of Notification for the post of JO. 186. Hence, for all the above mentioned reasons the

NMDC authority constituted by various committees formed

during the recruitment process for the post of Junior Officer

(Mining) might not have selected PW3 for the said post, though

he got highest marks in the written test. Therefore, the allegation

made by PW3 that since he was refused to pay bribe, accused

No.1 manipulated the work experience and caused disadvantage

by showing less experience are false. 187. Further it is made out from the evidence of PW12,

the Executive Director - L.N.Mathur that he had completed the

recruitment process for the post of JO, after entrusted the said

work to the HOD of Personnel department. He himself has stated

about preparation of question papers for the written test fixed

on 23.6.2013, prior to one day, with the help of his P.A.

Veeranna, who is examined as PW14. The evidence deposed by

PW12 is clear about the question papers were prepared well

within the time prior to written examination and the same were 176 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 taken to his home in sealed bags kept in the presence of other

committee members. Therefore, the allegation made against

accused No.1 that no steps taken by him to put up proposal

before the competent authority for constituting a committee to

prepare question papers, is false. 188. One of the allegations made against accused No.1

that he with malafide intention instructed the NMDC Officials who

perform duties as invigilators only to sign on the question-cum-

answer sheets and not other teachers as invigilators appointed

from the Kendriya Vidyalaya. But the evidence of invigilators

discussed above establish that accused No.1 did not give any

such type of instructions, though they stated on his behalf

another official namely V.Mehaboob Basha, AGM (M&S) a

member of Overseeing Committee, instructed them to do so. But

the CBI has not made the said important official as prosecution

witness to prove the specific instructions alleged to be given by

accused No.1. 189. Further, the allegation made that all the OBC

candidates namely Standly Kanikraj, Gungi Ankamma Rao, 177 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 A.Ramanjineyalu, Sharada Prasad Sahoo, Gunde Boyina

Yadagiri and M.Joseph Raj shown in General Merit category,

the applications given by the said candidates marked as Ex.P9,

Ex.P22, Ex.P30, Ex.P35, Ex.P38 and Ex.P46. The assessment

sheet Ex.P5 relates to the candidate Standly Kanikraj reveal that

the all the members of interview committee given separate

marks in total 26 for 30 towards communication skills, subject

knowledge, general behaviour and appearance, previous

relevant experience, attitude and aptitude. However, accused

No.1 given him three marks each out of six marks except two

marks given to the previous relevant experience. The income

and caste certificate issued by Revenue Authority of Sandur

Taluk, relating to him marked as Ex.D13. However, he has been

selected for the post of Junior Officer (Mining). Though

prosecution made him as CW61 in the charge sheet, he is not

examined before the Court. 190. The candidate Sharada Prasad Saho made as CW60,

for whom the marks given by accused No.1 in the oral interview

is 26 for 30. It is true other members of Interview Committee

given lesser marks to said candidate who was not selected for 178 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 the post. Only more marks given by accused No.1 will not lead

to favour shown to him as alleged in the charge sheet. 191. Further, another candidate M.Joseph Raj categorized

under OBC examined as PW58. The accused No.1 gave 23 out of

30 marks, whereas, another member S.K.Verma also gave 23

marks to him. However, he was selected for the post of Junior

Officer (Mining) subsequently. 192. The selected candidate T.Venkatasudarshan had

been given benefit of reservation though he has not produced

caste certificate as belonged to SC. Therefore, it is alleged that

accused No.1 shown favour to him and selected for the post of JO

even though caste certificate not produced, depriving the

genuine candidate. But in the checklist of this witness Ex.P42,

the note made as 'produce another SC certificate' who had

experience for six years and nine months though mentioned in

the relevant column as eight years three months. 193. The allegation made regarding benefit given to the

candidates qualifying them in the interview and fraudulently 179 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 selected for the post of JO are namely Asit Kumar Behra, Avijith

Rai, Anadi Mahapatra, T.Venkatasudarshan, Khaja Babu Sheik,

P.Thanesh Kumar. But prosecution has failed to prove that the

manner in which they were shown favour by the accused No.1,

when other committees also constituted during the recruitment

process for selection of said post. 194. However, the prosecution has not produced any

oral or documentary proof in support of the allegation regarding

Compilation of interview marks on the same day on 21.7.2013

and it was done after one week on 29.7.2013 for the purpose of

manipulating the marks. Because the numbers given to each of

the candidate who are attended interview shown in the separate

assessment sheets marked as Ex.P5 to P.58. Only on the

ground that assessment sheets of marks list of all the six

member of Interview Committee not kept in the sealed cover and

their signatures not obtained will not give any scope for

manipulation of the marks by the accused No.1 subsequently.

Admittedly, signatures of all the Interview Committee members

had been obtained subsequently in the presence of all of them

without any objections of members of said Committee. 180 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 195. The specific allegation made against accused No.2 is

that in furtherance of criminal conspiracy dishonestly and

fraudulently collected mobile number and other particulars of

candidates and contacted them over phone and he acted as

conduit between candidate and management for collecting bribe

from many candidates. The assurance given by him to get the

selection for the post of Junior Officer (Mining) deposed by

candidates PWs.3 and 4 is already discussed above. However,

the witness PW5 - Jagadishwar Singh, served as Master

Mechanic in NMDC from 2009 to 2015 was also in-charge of

Kumarswamy Iron Ore Mine, knew accused No.2 who was in-

charge of B CPC Mines and also his friend during tenure of in-

charge. He has deposed that Accused No.2 had approached him

and sought for help in the matter of appointment of JO when

application called for at NMDC during 2013. However, he made

known him that he had no role in said appointment and informed

him to approach Executive Director Sri L.M.Mathur at Donimalai.

At the same time, accused No.2 informed him that he was ready

to pay anything if he is appointed as JO. In the cross-

examination he has stated that while working at B CPC Mines, he 181 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 had causal contact with accused No.2 only with regard to their

work. It is admitted that accused No.2 did not disclose anything

about his willingness to pay bribe towards the appointment.

However, the evidence deposed by this witness reveals that

accused No.2 known to him prior to the Notification called for the

post of JO at NMDC as both of them were working in another

Company. But the evidence of this witness infers about the

intention of accused No.2 who was disclosed that ready to pay

bribe for getting the job of Junior Officer (Mining), which is one of

the ingredient of Section 8 of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988,

for which, attempt to obtain illegal gratification either for

himself or any other person as a motive or reward for

inducing, by corrupt or illegal means, any public servant,

whether named or otherwise, to do or to forbear to do any

official act is sufficient. 196. It is relevant to point out that accused No.2 before

interview called upon mobile number of PW3, which is shown as

9916256550 and informed about demand made by some of the

NMDC officials to pay money for appointment to the post of JO.

But PW3 who was said to be refused to give money, after 182 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 interview he was again called him and asked about giving money

for getting appointment, but did not name any of the officials.

However, PW3 was very much confident about his selection for

the post of JO as he was one among the top of 10 candidates but

not selected on the bribery allegation. Further evidence of

prosecution placed that accused No.2 called PW4 on the same

day of receiving message after one week from the date of written

examination and asked him to pay Rs.5 lakhs to NMDC officials.

Admittedly, the Cell number of PW4 is 9704095043 who has

clearly stated the Cell number of accused No.2 as 9449647614,

which is not denied by him. In support of their conversation, the

prosecution has relied on the call details which are discussed

above, but no specific details of customers of the relevant mobile

numbers are produced. However, PW4 was also stated that

since he was confident of getting job, not interested to give bribe

and same was disclosed with accused No.2. 197. It is made out from the evidence of prosecution

witnesses that accused No.2 made attempts to get employment

and approached his friend PW5, the then Master Mechanic, who

was informed about he had no role in appointment of JO and 183 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 asked him to approach Executive Director - L.N.Mathur. PW5

deposed that about accused No.2 expressed his intention to pay

money to get the post of JO which is denied in the cross-

examination. 198. However, the selected candidate PW32 - Poli Naveen

Kumar also deposed about he was called over phone by accused

No.2 after one week from the date of written examination. It is

alleged that, after written examination in the month of July-

2013, he was called him and asked if PW32 is ready to join

NMDC, has to pay Rs.3 to 4 lakhs, for which, accused No.2 will

facilitate job. Though no materials placed by prosecution as to

the amount paid by accused No.3 was towards bribe to get the

post of Junior Officer (Mining) and no proof placed with regard to

the bribe amount received from above said witnesses and paid to

either to accused No.1 or other officials of NMDC, the attempt

made by accused No.2 cannot be ignored. It is made out from

the evidence of selected candidates that they did not pay any

bribe amount to accused No.1 or accused No.2 or any other

officials of NMDC. However, the allegation made against accused

No.2 regarding attempt made by him to receive the illegal 184 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 gratification to induce the public servant to do an illegal act is

proved by prosecution by reliable evidence of above mentioned

witnesses. No explanation offered by accused No.2 as to why the

above-said witnesses deposed about call made by him for paying

bribe to the NMDC officials, if he was not called them and

disclosed about intention of paying bribe amount for getting the

post of Junior Officer (Mining). Even if accused No.2 is friend of

those witnesses, there was no necessity for them to depose

about the fact of bribe to be paid for getting the said post as

disclosed by him. Therefore, their evidence leniently viewed by

this Court. 199. The prosecution has relied on the evidence of PWs.21

to 23, 25 to 28 and 30 in support of allegation made against

accused No.3, who was said to be fraudulently and dishonestly

paid bribe amount of Rs.3,00,400/- to accused No.2 for inducing

public servant to get select for the post of JO and selected for the

said post. The said payment made by accused No.3 to the

account of accused No.2 on 15.7.2013 through PWs.21 to 23.

Therefore, it has become necessary to discuss their evidence in

brief whether it establish the case of prosecution. 185 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 200. PW.21 - Shaik Shamraj Ahmad, is brother-in-

law of Khadar Sharif Shaik is known accused No.3 Khaja Babu

Shaik, has identified the account opening form given to open

the account at State Bank of India, Nidadavole Branch, marked

as Ex.P73. The statement of account is marked as Ex.P74. He

has identified the withdrawal form of SBI Ex.P76 and his

signature Ex.P76(a). He has deposed that, according to

instruction given by his brother-in-law Khadar Sharif Shaik, he

has transferred amount of Rs.1,00,000/- from his account to the

SB Account No.0031147478026 which is entered in the

statement of account from 19.9.2006 to 19.2.2014. The relevant

entry dated 15.7.2013 marked as Ex.P74(a), which is admitted

as pertaining to repayment of loan availed by accused No.3 from

accused No.2. 201. PW.22 - Khadar Sharif Shaik, is the younger

brother of accused No.3 and brother-in-law of PW.21. He has

deposed about the request made by accused No.3 to remit

amount of Rs.1,00,000/- to the account of accused No.2. Since

he had no money, requested his brother-in-law to pay 186 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 Rs.1,00,000/- and to remit the same to the account of accused

No.2. However, he has colleted money from one Sathish,

afterwards his brother-in-law remitted the same amount to the

account of accused No.2. He is also personally known accused

No.2 since both of them were studying Polytechnic course, but he

was not having any money transaction with him during said

period. 202. Shaik Anwar Pasha, father of accused No.3

examined as P.W.23. He has identified account opening form

Ex.P68 and mentioned the account No.31553895853. According

to him, his son accused No.3 used to remit the amount to his SB

Account. He has identified the entry made in respect of amount

of Rs.49,900/- deposited to the account of accused No.2. In the

cross-examination he has admitted that his son accused No.3

had borrowed loan of Rs.3,00,000/- from accused No.2.

Therefore, he has remitted the amount of Rs.49,900/- to the

account of accused No.2 on the request made by his son accused

No.3. He has also admitted that the said amount paid towards

part payment of loan availed by his son from the accused No.2. 187 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 203. PW.25, Avatapalli Kanakadurga Prasad,

Accounts Manager of East India Commercial Company Ltd., has

deposed about father of accused No.3 Sheik Anwar Pasha was

working in Finishing Department in the same Company and

produced the relevant document to CBI officials. He has stated

that the loan of Rs.2,25,000/- obtained by said Sheik Anwar

Pasha from his P.F. Account for the purpose of purchase of

house. The said amount paid through cheque and the statement

of account of said Sheik Anwar Pasha marked as Ex.P69, his

signature in the document marked as Ex.P69(a). The documents

produced by him relating to father of accused No.3 marked as

Ex.P92. 204. PW.26 - Ganta Naga Ravindra Satish is known

person to Shamraj Ahmed and his brother-in-law Khader Shariff,

who had paid Rs.1,00,000/- to him for purchasing of house site

and stated the same before the CBI officials. 205. PW.30 - Vuram Naga Venkata Somashekar,

deposed about the loan took by Shaik Anwar Pasha by pledging

jewels on few occasions. The document produced by him relating 188 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 to said transaction marked as Exs.P98 to 101. The ledger extract

relating to the said transaction of loan marked as Ex.P102. All

the documents are marked subject to objection as they were in

Telugu language. 206. PW31 - Smt.Ameeda Begum is the younger

sister of one Noor Jahan W/o.Shaik Anwar Pasha has deposed

that site situated at Vuyyur had purchased from her elder sister

Noor Jahan, mother of accused No.3, in the year 2013 for

consideration of more than Rs.2,00,000/-. The document

No.2742/2013 mentioned in the original sale deed, certified copy

of the same produced before CBI identified as Ex.P96. In proof

of the said sale deed prosecution examined the Sub-registrar

of Vayur, Krishna District Patangadi Sharada deposed as

PW28 has identified the certified copy of document No.2742/13

dtd.18.5.2013 marked as Ex.P96 and covering letter marked as

Ex.P97. 207. However, according to prosecution the father of

accused No.3 had purchased two flats in Eluru for Rs.2,19,000/-

each and got registered the sale deeds in the name of accused 189 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 No.3 and his brother as per sale deeds Ex.P93 and 94. Further,

case alleged by prosecution that the mother of accused No.3

Smt. Mohammed Ameeda Begum examined as PW31 also sold

property for Rs.2,40,000/- under registered Sale deed Ex.P96.

However, the prosecution has contended that funds accumulated

by the father of accused No.3 from non-refundable loan of

Rs.2,25,200/ from his P.F. account for the purpose of purchasing

house from Co-operative Society and relied on evidence of PW25,

the Accounts Manager of East India Commercial Company Ltd.

Eluru, who has identified the statement of account of PW21,

marked as Ex.P69 and relevant entry marked as Ex.P69(a),

which was produced before CBI under Production Memo marked

as Ex.P92. Further, relied on the Gold Loan obtained by father

of accused No.3 in a sum of Rs.2,70,000/- as per receipts

Ex.P99 to 101. 208. However, the arguments relating to funds

accumulated by parents of accused No.3 to purchase the

property cannot be accepted in absence of reliable oral and

documentary evidence. Because, the prosecution witnesses

PWs.21 to 23 have categorically admitted the loan borrowed by 190 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 accused No.3 in a sum of Rs.3,00,000/- from accused No.3 for

purchase of property. 209. Admittedly, accused No.3 was one of the selected

candidates under General category who was alleged to be

favoured by accused No.1. But, the case of accused No.3 stated

in the statement filed under Section 313 Cr.P.C. is that he was

selected as per recruitment policy and procedure of NMDC Ltd.,

Donimalai. He had no contact or communication with any of the

public servants in connection with recruitment process for the

post of Junior Officer (Mining). The Investigating Officer has not

involved him at the time of filing FIR, but later he was included in

the charge sheet. Further, details of loan transaction of

Rs.3,00,400/- with the accused No.2 to purchase the land was

made known to Investigating Officer during the investigation. He

had fulfilled all the requirements of recruitment process

conducted by different committees constituted individually. He

was awarded marks by the Interview Committee members as per

the policy and procedures of NMDC which was approved by

competent authority and selected to the post of Junior Officer

(Mining). 210. However, the case of prosecution relating to father

of accused No.3 generated funds by different modes as stated

above and his mother also invested money for purchasing the

property under Ex.P93 and 94 is not proved by any reliable

evidence. Because, the evidence of PWs.21 to 23 proves the

loan of Rs.3,00,400/- borrowed by the accused No.3 from

accused No.2,. Moreover, when the prosecution has alleged that

the said amount was paid towards bribe to accused No.2, in turn

it was paid to accused No.1 for selection of post of Junior Officer

(Mining), it ought to have proved the same beyond reasonable

doubt. Only on the basis of evidence deposed by PWs.21 to 23,

25 to 31, the prosecution cannot allege that the accused No.3

has paid bribe of Rs.3,00,400/- to the accused No.2 and got

selected for the post of Junior Officer (Mining). Moreover,

accused No.2 is also one of the candidate was not a competent

authority to appoint him for the said post as himself was also

applied for the same post and selected subsequently. Therefore,

the above discussed evidence of PWs.21 to 23, 25 to 28, 30 and

31 supports the case of Accused No.3, which is corroborated

with the relevant documents discussed above. 192 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 211. After detail and careful perusal of entire oral and

documentary evidence placed by the prosecution, I come to

conclusion that the prosecution has utterly failed to prove that

accused No.1 being public servant as Assistant General Manager

(Personnel), NMDC, Donimalai, entered into criminal conspiracy

with accused Nos.2 and 3, in recruitment process for selection of

post of Junior Officer (Mining) in the year 2013 and cheated the

NMDC and deprived eligible candidates applied for the said post.

The prosecution has further failed to produce any corroborating

evidence of witnesses in proof of the alleged criminal conspiracy

as required under Section 120-A of Indian Penal Code. Under the

said Section the mandatory requirement is meeting of minds of

all the conspirators to do an illegal act, as discussed above.

Further, the manner of cheating NMDC by accused No.1 also not

produced before the Court. 212. However, the arguments of Public Prosecutor that

getting selection of accused No.2 and accused No.3 for the post

of Junior Officer (Mining) itself cheating NMDC, on the ground

some eligible candidates were deprived of said post. But as 193 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 pointed out earlier, both accused No.2 and accused No.3 were

selected by the Competent Authority which was not headed by

accused No.1 alone on the basis of Merit list. 213. Further, the important aspect is that the recruitment

process for the post of Junior Officer (Mining), NMDC conducted

by constituting different committees by Executive Director who

was the head of project. It is not in dispute that though the

accused No.1 was head of Personnel Department and one of the

member of Interview Committee, other committees formed

consisting of different officials as members looked after different

stages of recruitment process. Only on the ground that accused

No.1 was head of Personnel Department and said to be given

instructions to the invigilators of NMDC to sign on the

assessment sheets as well as secured the mobile numbers of

each candidate, it cannot be alleged that he alone responsible for

entire recruitment process. Because, the recruitment process was

finalized after duties performed by members of Shortlist

Committee, Scrutiny Committee and Overseeing Committee. The

duty entrusted to Shortlist Committee to enquire the documents

furnished along with application to categorize each of the 194 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 candidate applied for the post of Junior Officer (Mining).

Likewise, the documents were scrutinized by another Committee

and made note on the applications. Admittedly accused No.1

was not member of those Committees who were short listed PW3

as he was not produced OBC certificate in Central Format. 214. The documents reveal that accused No.1 did not take

or played any important role in the recruitment process as it was

conducted on the basis of report given by members of different

Committees discussed above. However, the prosecution not

proved nexus between accused No.1 with accused Nos.2 and 3

and also no evidence placed in proof of all the three accused met

together for planning to do some illegal act. Therefore, there

cannot be any criminal conspiracy by accused No.1 with accused

No.2 and accused No.3 as well as no cheating as contended by

prosecution. Further the evidence of prosecution discussed

above with supporting documents will not prove the favour

shown by accused No.1 to some of the candidates who were

subsequently selected for the above post and disfavour shown to

PW3 for non-selection for the said post. However, the

documents placed by prosecution proves that PW3 not complied 195 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 the conditions of Notification and categorized under General

category, therefore even after he has produced OBC certificate at

the time of interview, he was not considered as OBC candidate

and not selected for the above post. The said decision taken by

the recruitment authority and accused No.1 had no independent

role in that decision taken by the Committee. Therefore, it can

be said that accused No.1 being public servant has not

committed criminal misconduct during the course of recruitment

process for the post of Junior Officer (Mining) at NMDC. 215. It is true, many lapses alleged to be taken by the

officials of NMDC during recruitment process for the post of

Junior Officer (Mining) and same has been clearly mentioned in

the investigation report filed by Vigilance Department marked

under Ex.P65, which is already discussed above in detail.

However, except accused No.1, no other officials who were also

responsible for irregularities in the recruitment process were not

made as accused, for which, no explanation offered by CBI.

Therefore, the doubt will certainly arose as to why CBI made

allegations only against accused No.1 when other officials of

NMDC also involved in the recruitment process entrusted with 196 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 different work and responsible for irregularities, if any, took

during the said period, all the other officials are not made as

accused persons. The irregularities taken at NMDC during the

recruitment process for the post of Junior Officer (Mining) are

made out by the evidence of witnesses and also preliminary

investigation report filed under Ex.P65. It is already pointed out

that though accused No.1 made responsible for some of the

irregularities, other officials of NMDC, whose names are

mentioned above also responsible for the irregularities.

However, the irregularities cannot be considered as offences

committed by them. Moreover, there is a separate appropriate

authority in NMDC to conduct departmental enquiry against

those officials, if any irregularities committed during the

recruitment process. Therefore, the Court cannot consider the

irregularities occurred at NMDC during the recruitment process of

Junior Officer (Mining), which was brought to the notice of Chief

Vigilance Officer by PWs.3 and 4 by filing separate complaints

alleging about irregularities. 216. Further, the documents reveal that accused Nos.2

and 3, are selected candidates on the basis of merit and also 197 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 category wise, classified by the NMDC officials while scrutiny of

documents. Further, from the oral and documentary evidence, it

is made out that the eligible candidates also selected for the

same post, without paying any bribe to NMDC officials. Some of

the selected candidates were examined before the Court did not

say anything about bribe paid by them for getting the post of

Junior Officer (Mining) at NMDC. The important aspect of

alleged bribe paid by accused No.3 to accused No.2 also not

proved before the Court. However, the prosecution has proved

only the attempt made by accused No.2, who was made calls to

his friends, PWs.3, 4 and 32 to pay bribe for the selection of

above post and insisted them repeatedly, which is nothing but

illegal attempt made by him. It is true, prosecution has not

placed any proof regarding bribe amount paid to him, in turn it

was paid to any of the officials of NMDC. But, at initial stage

itself he had contacted official witness PW5 with whom made

known his intention to pay bribe for getting post of Junior Officer

(Mining). But, the prosecution has not placed any proof that

accused No.2 acted as conduit between candidates and

Management for collecting bribe to get selection for the post

Junior Officer (Mining) and influenced accused No.1 and other 198 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 officials of NMDC. The evidence of prosecution certainly establish

that the attempt made by accused No.2 that the bribe amount

to be paid to the officials of NMDC, and he did not mention

names of either accused No.1 or any of the officials of NMDC.

Therefore, the evidence of prosecution witnesses corroborates

the attempt made by accused No.2 to get the selection of post of

Junior Officer (Mining) and not stated anything about bribe

received by him or bribe paid to accused No.1. Therefore, even

in absence of any bribe amount collected by accused No.2 on

behalf of candidates or paid to officials of NMDC or to accused

No.1, the Court cannot ignore the corroborative evidence

deposed against him regarding attempt made by him by calling

above mentioned witnesses to pay bribe for the selection of post,

which attracts the offence under Section 8 of the Prevention of

Corruption Act, 1988. 217. However, the prosecution has not proved that

accused No.1 being public servant had misused his official

powers and committed criminal misconduct as provided under Section 13 (2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. I have

already discussed how the prosecution has not placed any oral or 199 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 documentary evidence against accused No.1 to attract the

offence punishable under Section 13(1) (c) or (d) and Section

13(2) of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. Therefore, though

Court took cognizance of the offence against accused No.1

under Clause (c) of Section 13(1) of Prevention of Corruption Act,

1988, no proof placed before the Court. 218. However, though the accused No.3 alleged to be

paid bribe for getting the selection for post of Junior Officer

(Mining), he was not shown as accused at the initial stage while

registering the FIR. But, he was shown one of the accused in the

charge sheet on the allegations of selected for the post of Junior

Officer (Mining) after paying bribe to accused No.2. Admittedly,

accused No.2 is not the competent authority to select accused

No.3 for the said post. The prosecution though made allegations

of bribe paid by accused No.3 has not produced any oral or

documentary evidence regarding bribe paid by accused No.3 to

accused No.2, in turn, which was alleged to be paid to accused

No.1 and subsequently both of them selected for the post of

Junior Officer (Mining). In absence of important proof for the

alleged offences mentioned in the charge sheet, I am of the view 200 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 that the prosecution has utterly failed to prove that accused

Nos.1 to 3 have committed offence punishable under Section

120-B read with Section 420 Indian Penal Code and Section 420 Indian Penal Code. Further, no proof of charge for the offence

punishable under Section 13(1)(c) or (d) and Section 13(2) of

Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 against accused No.1.

However, prosecution has partly proved the offence under Section 8 of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 committed by the

accused No.2. Therefore, I answer point Nos.2, 4, 5 and 6 in

Negative and point Nos.3 and 7 partly in affirmative only

against accused No.2. 219. Point No.7 :- For the above discussed reasons, I

proceed to pass the following:- If the Court take lenient view while imposing sentence, the

offence of attempt of inducing public servant to do an illegal act, 203 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 it will give wrong message to the Society. It is found from the

order sheet that he has already undergone Police Custody for

three days and Judicial Custody for 44 days. Therefore, taking

into consideration that he has already lost his job and the proof

placed against him only with respect to the attempt made to

induce the public servant, I am of the opinion that if he is

sentenced to undergo imprisonment for three years prescribed

for the offence punishable under Section 8 of Prevention of

Corruption Act, 1988 Substituted by Act 1 of 2014 and to

pay fine of Rs.2,00,000/-, then it will meet the ends of

justice. Hence, I proceed to pass the following:- Ex.P.204(a) Signature of P.W.46
Ex.P.205 Cheque No.746076
Ex.P.206 Attendance of Invigilators
Ex.P.206(a) Signature of P.W.47
Ex.P.206(b) Signature of P.W.49
Ex.P.206(c) Signature of P.W.50
Ex.P.207 Covering letter dated 17.11.2014
Ex.P.208 Call details of 9916976520
Ex.P.209 Customer application form of Sudesh Kumar
Ex.P.210 Call data records of 9916256550
Ex.P.211 Customer application form of Ankammma
Ex.P.212 Call data records of 9966555125
Ex.P.213 Certificate u/S.65-B of Indian Evidence Act
Ex.P.213(a) Signature of P.W.48
Ex.P.214 Certificate u/S.65-B of Indian Evidence Act
Ex.P.214(a) Signature of P.W.48
Ex.P.215 Certificate u/S.65-B of Indian Evidence Act
Ex.P.215(a) Signature of P.W.48
Ex.P.216 Seizure memo with documents
Ex.P.216(a) Signature of P.W.51
Ex.P.217 Covering letter
Ex.P.217(a) Signature of P.W.52
Ex.P.218 Copy of caste certificate
Ex.P.219 Attested copy of caste and birth certificate
Ex.P.220 to Xerox copies of experience certificates of P.W.54
222
Ex.P.223 Covering letter
Ex.P.223(a) Signature of P.W.55
Ex.P.224 Certified copy of customer application form of
 Veerabhadrappa
Ex.P.225 Copy of PAN card of Veerabhadrappa
Ex.P.226 Covering letter dated 17.11.2014
Ex.P.226(a) Signature of P.W.57
Ex.P.227 Xerox copy of customer application form of James
 Anthony Raj along with copy of ID card
Ex.P.228 F.I.R. 3) LIST OF EXHIBITS MARKED THROUGH DEFENCE SIDE:- EXHIBITS PARTICULARS
Ex.D.1 & NMDC recruitment, policy, procedures along with
D.2 office order
Ex.D.3 Notification copy 215 Spl.C.C. No.204/2015 Ex.D.4 OBC certificate
Ex.D.5 OBC certificate in state format
Ex.D.6 Signature of P.W.7 in Ex.P.1
Ex.D.7 Relevant entry in Ex.P.52
Ex.D.8 Experience certificates annexed in Ex.P.52
Ex.D.8(a) -do- Ex.D.8(b) -do- XLVI Additional City Civil and Sessions Judge
 and Special Judge for CBI Cases,
 Bengaluru.