% 01.05.2023
 The order of the Court dated 06 March 2023 has not been
 complied with. Learned counsel who has entered appearance on behalf
 of the judgment debtor prays for time to enable him to take
 appropriate steps in light of the directions issued earlier. Acceding to the same, this matter shall stand adjourned to be
 called again on 04.08.2023. It is further clarified that in case no Affidavit of Assets in terms
 of and in the format(s) as appended to this order is filed on or before
 the next date, the judgment debtor shall appear in person. YASHWANT VARMA, J. MAY 01, 2023
 neha Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:02.05.2023 15:15:49 ANNEXURE A
 FORMAT OF AFFIDAVIT OF ASSETS AND INCOME OF THE
 JUDGMENT-DEBTOR1

 I _______________________, son of / daughter of / wife of /
 ___________________, aged about ____ years, resident of
 ___________________________, do hereby solemnly declare and affirm as under: the income in the last five years 9. Whether you are assessed to Income tax? 10. Marital Status 1 Note 1 - If the judgment-debtor is a proprietor/partner of a Firm/member of HUF/
 Director or Promoter in a company/member of trust/society, an additional affidavit in
 respect of the assets and income of the Firm/HUF/Company/Trust shall be filed by
 thejudgment-debtor in the format of Annexure B.
 Note 2 - All the documents attached to this affidavit have to be self-attested by the
Signaturedeponent. Not Verified
Digitally Signed
By:NEHA
Signing Date:02.05.2023
15:15:49 11. Addresses: 12. (i) Immovable properties

 Particulars of the
 immovable properties
 including joint properties,
 built up properties, lease
 hold properties, land/
 agricultural land and
 investment in real estate
 such as booking of plots,
 flats, etc. in the name of
 judgment-debtor or in joint
 names with the judgment-
 debtor (ii) Possession
 Whether the possession of
 the above properties is
 with the judgment-debtor? If no, give status of the
 possession Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:02.05.2023 15:15:49 (iii) Title documents
 Whether the title
 documents of the above
 properties are with the
 judgment-debtor? If no,
 give status of the
 possession of the title
 documents (iv) Litigation
 Whether any litigation is
 pending in respect of the
 above properties. If so,
 give particulars 13. Financial Assets/Debts S.No. Account Name of Bank Current
 Number Balance (i) Particulars of all bank
 accounts including Current and 1. Savings Accounts in the name
 of judgment-debtor or in joint
 names with judgment- 2. debtorpresently maintained. Note : If any bank account(s) 3.
 has/have been classified by the
 banks as willful defaulter under
 the Master Circular on 'Wilful 4.
 Defaulters' dated 01.07.2015
 [RBI/2015- 16/100DBR.No.CID. BC 5. .22/20.16. 003/2015-16] or
 Reserve Bank of India (Frauds
 classification and reporting by
 commercial banks and select 6.
 Financial Institutions)
 directions 2016 under Master
 Circular dated 01.07.2016(RBI 7.
 /DBS/2016-17/28 DBS. CO.
 CFM C. BC. No.1/23.04.001
 /2016-17), give particulars of
 such bank accounts. Value of (ii) Particulars of DEMAT Shares
 accounts held by judgment-
 debtor and which are
 presently maintained. (iii) Cash in hand (iv) Particulars of the safety
 deposit lockers in the name
 of the judgment-debtor or
 in joint names with the
 judgment-debtor (v) Particulars of the debts/
 liabilities of the judgment-
 debtor (vi) Particulars of the overdraft
 facility along with name
 and address of the bank,
 branch, account No., type
 and particulars of the
 security given to secure the
 overdraft 14. Investments Particulars Current
 Value (i) FDR(s), NSC, IVP, KVP,
 Post Office schemes etc. (ii) Deposits with
 Government and Non- Government entities (iii) Stocks, shares,
 debentures, bonds, units
 and mutual funds, etc. (iv) Insurance policies and
 theirsurrender value (v) Loan given to friends,
 relatives and others (vi) Details of the foreign
 investments made
 including those made in Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:02.05.2023 15:15:49 last ten years or from the
 date of beginning of
 cause of action,
 whichever is later (vii) Other investments not
 covered by above items 15. Moveable Assets Particulars Cost of
 Acquisit (i) Motor Vehicles (List of ion
 cars, motorcycles,
 scooters etc. along with
 their brand and
 registration number) (ii) Livestock (iii) Plant &Equipments (iv) Quantity of gold, silver
 and diamond jewellery (v) Quantity of silver utensils (vi) List anything else of
 value that the judgment- debtor owns, including
 precious metals,
 collections, works of art,
 jewellery or household
 items of which the cost of
 acquisition is more than
 Rs.25,000/- each 16. Intangible assets

 Intangible assets including
 patents, trademark, copyright,
 design, goodwill and their
 value 17. Garnishee(s)/Trade receivables (i) Name(s) and addresses of
 Garnishee(s) and the
 particulars of the debt, share
 and other properties
 recoverable from the
 Garnishee(s) with complete
 details of the transactions (ii) Trade receivables along Signature Not Verifiedwith name, address and amount Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:02.05.2023 15:15:49 due from each Garnishee(s) 18. Corporate/Business Interests

 Particulars of the interest/
 position/ association of the
 judgment-debtor, directly or
 indirectly, in any corporation,
 unincorporated business,
 company, partnership, trust,
 joint venture and Association
 of Persons, Society etc.
 presently held. 19. Disposal and parting away of
 properties (i) Particulars of all
 properties transferred/agreed to
 be transferred or parted with
 the possession by any mode
 including sale, gift,
 relinquishment, General power
 of attorney, Special power of
 attorney, exchange, agreement,
 family settlement, lease,
 transfer of
 shareholding/investment
 etc.from the date of beginning
 of cause of action; name/address of the transferee
 and the consideration received
 from the transferee(s) (ii) Partition/severance of
 status/ change of status of your
 assets and/or business entities
 such as partnership/HUF or
 MOUs/ agreements etc. 20. Properties acquired by the
 family members of the
 judgment-debtors Signature Not Verified(i) Particulars of the Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:02.05.2023 15:15:49 properties (movable/
 immovable) acquired by
 immediate family members of
 judgment-debtor from the date
 of beginning of the cause of
 action (ii) Whether the judgment-
 debtor contributed any amount
 in the above acquisition. If so,
 give particulars of contribution (iii) Details of the funds
 transferred by the judgment-
 debtor in the name of
 immediate family members
 from the date of beginning of
 the cause of action (iv) Details and particulars of
 shares purchased/investments
 made by the judgment-debtor
 in the name of immediate
 family members from the date
 of beginning of the cause of
 action

 Note: In case it is asserted that
 properties were acquired by
 family members from their own
 funds then requisite details be
 furnished. 21. Inheritance

 Particulars of the estate in
 which the judgment-debtor is a
 beneficiary of inheritance
 along with market value of the
 property inherited 22. Existing charges on the assets (i) Particulars of all existing
 charges on the assets including
 mortgage, charge, pledge on Signature Not Verifiedthe assets Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:02.05.2023 15:15:49 (ii) Whether the charges are
 registered, and the present
 status of the same (iii) Whether any of the assets
 are subject to attachment
 proceedings under any Act
 including Prevention of Money
 Laundering Act, 2002 ; Income
 Tax Act, 1961 ; Benami
 Transactions (Prohibition) Act,
 1988 and Black Money
 (Undisclosed Foreign Income
 and Assets) and Imposition of
 Tax Act , 2015 23. List of other assets not itemized
 above

 STATEMENT OF INCOME

 S. Description On the date On the date of Present
 No of the cause the decree/award
 of action 24. If the judgment-debtor is a salaried
 person: length of last employment; period of Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:02.05.2023 15:15:49 last employment; name and address
 of last employer; last drawn monthly
 salary, perquisites and other benefits
 provided by the employer and last
 drawn annual salary 25. If2 the judgment-debtor is self- employed: active, give the date of closure,
 assets on the date of closure, present Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:02.05.2023 15:15:49 status of the assets and if the assets
 have been transferred, the
 particulars of the transfer and
 consideration received. 26. In3 case of a self-employed person
 /proprietorship firm: 27. In. case of a Company, partnership,
 HUF, joint family business or any
 other form (i) Details of registration and
 incorporation (ii) Registered Office and the
 branch offices, if any, of the
 judgment-debtor including all
 addresses from the date of
 beginning of cause of action
 till the date of filing of the
 present affidavit (iii) Details of shareholding of the
 partners, directors, promoters (iv) Details of all subsidiary
 Companies and sister concerns (v) Net worth of the Company Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:02.05.2023 15:15:49 /firm /HUF (vi) Number of employees (vii) Annual turnover/gross receipts (viii) Gross Profit (ix) Income Tax (x) Net Income (xi) Amount of regular monthly
 withdrawal or drawings from
 the business (xii) Location of your business
 assets (xiii) Location of the statutory
 records and books of account
 of the firm (xiv) Whether any partner/ Director/
 member has taken loan/
 overdrawn/ taken credit? If so,
 give particulars 28. Income from other sources (i) Agricultural Income (ii) Rent (iii) Interest on bank deposits and
 FDRs (iv) Interest on investments
 including deposits, NSC, IVP,
 KVP, Post Office schemes,
 PPF, loans etc. (v) Dividends (vi) Income from machinery, plant
 or furniture let on hire (vii) Gifts (viii) Profit on sale of movable/
 immovable assets (ix) Mutual Funds (x) Annuities (xi) Any other source of income
 not covered above
 Note: - If you are expecting to
 receive a lump sum payment in the
 future, give further details including
 the amount and expected date of
 receipt of the payment Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:02.05.2023 15:15:49 29. Any
 6 other income not covered above

 TOTAL INCOME Annual Rs. Monthly Rs. OTHER RELEVANT INFORMATION OF THE JUDGMENT-DEBTOR 30. Particulars of all the unsatisfied decrees/awards 31. Particulars of place of residence where you have resided during the preceding five years

 Period Address in full with Police Station & Distt. Whether
 along with area (in sq. ft.) of the residential owner/tenant? 32. Statement of Account of all bank accounts including
 current, savings and DEMAT accounts of the
 judgment-debtor for last three years Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:02.05.2023 15:15:49 33. In case of salaried persons (i) Income Tax Return(s) along with the balance
 sheets, statement of income and Annexures for
 last five years (ii) Appointment Letter along with salary structure
 at time of appointment (iii) Salary slip (iv) Forms 16, 16A & 12BA (v) Cost to Company Certificate (vi) Copies of TDS certificates 34. In case of self-employed persons (i) If the judgment-debtor carries on business in
 the name of a sole proprietorship concern -
 Income Tax Return(s) along with the balance
 sheets, Profit & Loss Account, statement of
 income and Annexures of the proprietorship
 firm for last five years (ii) If the judgment-debtor is a partner in a firm - Income Tax Return(s) along with the balance
 sheets, Profit & Loss Account, statement of
 income and Annexures of the partnership
 firm, along with the Schedule showing the
 distribution of partners' remuneration and
 share of profits/losses of the partnership firm
 and the copy of the partnership deed, for last
 five years (iii) If the judgment-debtor is a Director of the
 Company - Income Tax Return(s) along with
 the balance sheets, Profit & Loss Account,
 statement of income and Annexures of the
 Company for last five years (iv) If the judgment-debtor has a share in
 Association of Persons, HUF, Joint Family
 business or Trust - Income Tax Return(s)
 along with the balance sheets, Profit & Loss
 Account, statement of income and Annexures
 of the Association of Persons, HUF, Joint
 Family business or Trust for last five years (v) Account of the judgment-debtor in the books Signature Not Verified of the business Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:02.05.2023 15:15:49 (vi) GST/ VAT/ Excise/ Sales Tax registration,
 returns in last five years (vii) TDS certificates 35. In case of Income from other sources: 36.
 judgment-debtor

 Documents relating to the debt, shares and other 37.
 properties of the judgment-debtor recoverable from
 the Garnishee(s)

 Documents relating to the properties transferred, 38.
 alienated or parted with or agreed to be transferred
 between the date of beginning of cause of action
 upto the date of filing of this affidavit

 Documents pertaining to any pre-existing charge on 39.
 the assets, or orders pertaining to attachment of
 assets by authorities including but not limited under Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 ; Income Tax Act, 1961 ; Benami Transactions
 (Prohibition) Act,1988 ; and Black Money
 (Undisclosed Foreign Income and Assets) and
 Imposition of Tax Act, 2015 . Documents relating to the unsatisfied 40.
 decrees/awards

 Other relevant documents relating to assets and 41.
 income

 Declaration: DEPONENT
 Verification: debtor and inter-se relationship of shareholders 5. Particulars of the Partners/Directors/Promoters
 and other key managerial staff with their name,
 age, designation, length of employment, past
 employment details of past ten years, complete
 residence address, their shareholding in the
 Company, its subsidiaries, its joint ventures and
 other associated entities 2 Note 1 - If the judgment debtor is a company, this affidavit has to be executed by all
 any Director/Promoter duly authorized in this behalf (other than independent/non-
 executive/nominee directors); If the judgment debtor is a partnership firm, this
 affidavit has to be executed by any of its partners duly authorized in this behalf; If the
 judgment debtor is a proprietorship firm, this affidavit has to be executed, by its
 proprietor and in case of a trust, by its Managing Trustee. Note 2 - All the documents attached to this affidavit have to be self-attested by the Signature Not Verified deponent. 6. Name and addresses of the Partners/Directors/
 Promoters on the date of the incorporation 7. Name and addresses of the Partners/Directors/
 Promoters on the date of the beginning of the
 cause of action 8. Name and addresses of the Partners/Directors/
 Promoters on the date of the decree/ award was
 passed 9. Name and addresses of the Partners/Directors/
 Promoters on date of the affidavit 10. Particulars of all related parties including
 subsidiary companies, sister concerns, agencies,
 distributors etc. 11. Net worth of the Business/Firm/Company 12. Number of employees 13. Location of the statutory records and books of
 account of the judgment-debtor 14. Location of assets of the judgment-debtor 15. Particulars of the transactions with the related
 parties whether in the form of expenses, loans or
 otherwise from the date of the beginning of
 cause of action upto the date of the affidavit 16. Has the judgment-debtor transferred any assets
 to any Directors /Promoters /Partners /Proprietor/
 Trustee? If so, give particulars

 STATEMENT OF ASSETS

 S.No. Assets List of Assets Present
 Estimated
 On the date of On the Present Market
 the cause of date of the Value
 action decree
 /award 17. (i) Immovable properties
 Particulars of the
 immovable properties Signature Not Verified including joint properties, Digitally Signed built up properties, lease
By:NEHA
Signing Date:02.05.2023
15:15:49
 hold properties, land
 /agricultural land and
 investment in real estate
 such as booking of plots,
 flats, etc. of the judgment-
 debtor (ii) Possession
 Whether the possession of
 the above properties is with
 the judgment-debtor? If no,
 give status of the possession (iii) Title documents
 Whether the title documents
 of the above properties are
 with the judgment-debtor?
 If no, give status of the
 possession of the title
 documents (iv) Litigation
 Whether any litigation is
 pending in respect of the
 above properties. If so, give
 particulars 18. Financial Assets/Debts: Name of Bank Curren
 S.No. Account t (i) Particulars of all bank Number Balanc
 accounts including Current and e
 Savings Accounts in judgment-
 debtors' name or joint names 1.
 with the judgment-debtor
 presently maintained. Note : If any bank account(s)
 has/have been classified by the
 banks as willful defaulter under 3.
 the Master Circular on 'Wilful
 Defaulters' dated 01.07.2015
 [RBI/2015-16/100DBR.No.CID. 4.
 BC. 22/20.16.003/2015-16] or
 Reserve Bank of India (Frauds 5. classification and reporting by
 commercial banks and select
 Financial Institutions) directions 6.
 2016 under Master Circular
 dated 01.07.2016 (RBI /DBS/ 7. Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:02.05.2023 15:15:49 2016-17/28 DBS. CO. CFMC. BC. No.1/23.04.001
 /2016-17), give particulars of 8.
 such bank accounts. accounts held by judgment- (iv) Particulars of the safety
 deposit of lockers in the
 name of the judgment-debtor
 or in joint names with the
 judgment-debtor (v) Particulars of the debts/
 liabilities of the judgment-
 debtor (vi) Particulars of the overdraft
 facility along with name and
 address of the bank, branch,
 account No., type and
 particulars of the security
 given to secure the overdraft 19. Investments Particulars Curren
 t Value (i) FDR(s), NSC, IVP, KVP,
 Post Office schemes,
 Provident Fund(s) etc. (ii) Deposits with Government
 and Non-Government
 entities (iii) Stocks, shares, debentures, Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:02.05.2023 15:15:49 bonds, units and mutual
 funds, etc. (iv) Insurance policies (v) Loan given (vi) Details of the foreign
 investments made
 including those made in
 last ten years or from the
 date of beginning of cause
 of action, whichever is later (vii) Other investments not
 covered by above items 20. Movable Assets Particulars Cost of
 Acquisi (i) Motor Vehicles (List of tion
 cars, motorcycles, scooters
 etc. along with their brand
 and registration number) (ii) Livestock (iii) Plant &Equipments 21. Intangible assets

 Intangible assets including
 patents, trademark, copyright,
 design, goodwill and their value 22. Garnishee(s)/Trade receivables (i) Name(s) and addresses of
 Garnishee(s) and the particulars
 of the debt, share and other
 properties recoverable from the
 Garnishee(s) with complete
 details of the transactions (ii) Trade receivables along
 with name, address and amount
 due from each Garnishee(s) Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:02.05.2023 15:15:49 23. About disposal of properties (i) Particulars of properties
 transferred/agreed to be
 transferred or parted with the
 possession by any mode
 including sale, gift,
 relinquishment, General Power
 of Attorney, Special Power of
 Attorney, exchange, agreement,
 family settlement, lease, transfer
 of share holding/investment etc.
 from the date of beginning of
 cause of action, whichever is
 later; name/address of the
 transferee and the sale
 consideration received from the
 transferee(s) (ii) List of properties that
 have ever been in judgment-
 debtors' name or in which
 judgment-debtor had any right/
 interest 24. Existing charges on the assets (i) Particulars of existing
 charges on the assets of the
 judgment-debtor including
 mortgage, charge, pledge on the
 assets (ii) Whether the charges are
 registered, and the present status
 of the same (iii) Whether any of the assets
 are subject to attachment
 proceedings under any Act
 including Prevention of Money
 Laundering Act, 2002 ; Income
 Tax Act, 1961 ; Benami
 Transactions (Prohibition)
 Act,1988 and Black Money
 (Undisclosed Foreign Income
 and Assets) and Imposition of Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:02.05.2023 15:15:49 Tax Act, 2015 25. List of other assets not itemized
 above

 STATEMENT OF INCOME

 S. No Description On the date of On the date of Present
 the cause of the award/decree
 action 26. Income from business/profession (i) Annual turnover / gross
 receipts (ii) Gross Profit (iii) Income Tax (iv) Net Income
 Note: If the business is closed/non-
 active, give the date of closure,
 assets on the date of closure,
 present status of the assets and if
 the assets have been transferred,
 the particulars of the transfer and
 consideration received 27. Income from Other Sources (i) Agricultural Income (ii) Rent (iii) Interest on bank deposits and
 FDRs (iv) Interest on investments
 including deposits, NSC,
 IVP, KVP, Post Office
 schemes, PPF, loans etc. (v) Dividends (vi) Income from machinery,
 plant or furniture let on hire (vii) Profit on sale of movable/
 immovable assets (viii) Any other sources of income Signature Not Verified not covered above Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:02.05.2023 15:15:49 Note: - If the judgment-debtor is
 expecting to receive a lump sum
 payment in the future, give further
 details including the amount and
 expected date of receipt of the
 payment 28. Any other income not covered
 above

 OTHER RELEVANT INFORMATION 29. Particulars of the unsatisfied decrees/awards against the
 judgment-debtor 30. Details of loan/credit facility(s) taken from banks and
 other financial institutions in the last five years and the
 present status 31. Name and address of the auditors and date of last audit of
 accounts

 DOCUMENTS

 S. No. Document Description of Document

 Description Please Tick

 Attached NA To
 follow 32. Statement of Account of all bank accounts including current,
 savings and DEMAT accounts of the judgment-debtor for
 last three years 33. (i) If the judgment-debtor is a sole proprietorship concern - Income Tax Return(s) along with the balance sheets,
 Profit & Loss Account, statement of income and
 Annexures of the proprietorship firm for last five years (ii) If the judgment-debtor is a partnership firm - Income
 Tax Return(s) along with the balance sheets, Profit &
 Loss Account, statement of income and Annexures of
 the partnership firm, along with the Schedule showing
 the distribution of partners' remuneration and share of Signature Not Verified profits/losses of the partnership firm and the copy of Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:02.05.2023 15:15:49 the partnership deed, for last five years (iii) If the judgment-debtor is a Company - Income Tax
 Return(s) along with the balance sheets, Profit & Loss
 Account, statement of income and Annexures of the
 Company for last five years (iv) If the judgment-debtor in an Association of Persons,
 HUF, Joint Family business or Trust - Income Tax
 Return(s) along with the balance sheets, Profit & Loss
 Account, statement of income and Annexures of the
 Association of Persons, HUF, Joint Family business or
 Trust for last five years (v) GST/ VAT/ Excise/ Sales Tax registration, returns in
 last five years (vi) TDS certificates 34. In case of Income from other sources: 35. Title deeds of the immovable properties of the judgment- debtor 36. Documents relating to the debt, shares and other properties
 of the judgment-debtor recoverable from the Garnishee(s) 37. Documents relating to the properties transferred, alienated or
 parted with person or agreed to be transferred by the
 judgment-debtor 38. Documents pertaining to any pre-existing charge on the
 assets, or orders pertaining to attachment of assets by
 authorities including but not limited under Prevention of
 Money Laundering Act, 2002 ; Income Tax Act, 1961 ; Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 ; and Black
 Money (Undisclosed Foreign Income and Assets)and
 Imposition of Tax Act, 2015 39. Form 26AS downloaded from the website of Income Tax
 Department for the last five financial years 40. Forms 3CA/3CB and 3CD, as applicable, pursuant to Signature Not VerifiedSection 44AB of the Income Tax Act, 1961 filed for the last Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:02.05.2023 15:15:49 five years 41. Documents relating to the unsatisfied decrees/awards 42. Other relevant documents relating to assets and income

 Declaration: DEPONENT Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Signing Date:02.05.2023 15:15:49 Verification: