SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, CHIEF JUSTICE: (Oral) 1. The greed and lure to make quick money disproportionate to

 any known business system made people invest in Ponzi Schemes. This

 petition is filed by such investors who now fear that all their money is lost

 and the money laundered away. 2. Learned counsel for the petitioners fairly states that kind of

 return which was being promised even up to 210% upward in ten

 months' time could hardly have been realised and the people were not

 prudent enough to give a second thought to such a scheme. He, Chand Parkash 2013.08.14 11:16 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP-14795-2011 -2- however, submits that not only in India but countries abroad have faced

 situations where people have lost their money in such Ponzi Schemes. It

 is his submission that these Schemes are in the nature of Pyramid

 Scheme which is a non-sustainable business model, promising

 participants payment, services or deals, primarily, for enrolling other

 people into the scheme or training them to take part rather than

 supplying any real investment or sale of products or services to the public

 and this amounts to a form of fraud. It is his say that these schemes

 have been declared illegal in many countries. 3. Insofar as the present matter is concerned, there is a two-

 pronged solution suggested by learned counsel for the petitioners. The

 first suggestion is in a larger frame, i.e., there should be an appropriate

 legislation brought to curtail such Ponzi Schemes. Learned counsel for the

 Union of India states that the Ministry of Corporate Affairs has been

 issuing advisories through different media to make people aware of the

 risks in participating in such ill-conceived schemes, but, possibly, the

 greed of people gets the better of them. However, he is not averse to the

 department looking into the matter to see if there could be any legislation

 which may assist in curtailing such incidents or make the floating of such

 Ponzi Schemes more onerous to protect the interest of the public at

 large. He, thus, assures that a necessary exercise would be carried out

 within a period of three months in this direction. 4. Second aspect - more specific to the problem at hand, is to

 continue investigation of the FIRs already lodged. We are informed that

 out of the 3 FIRs lodged in Haryana, one stands compromised while in

 two cases prosecution evidence is being led. In Punjab also, there are Chand Parkash 2013.08.14 11:16 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP-14795-2011 -3- FIRs registered but the status of these are not known to the learned

 Additional Advocate General, Punjab. In Chandigarh, there is one FIR in

 which investigation is in progress. 5. The difficulty is that most of the connected people seem to

 have vanished and left the country as the schemes appear to have been

 formulated and implemented in Malaysia. 6. The third status-report of the Enforcement Directorate has

 been filed under the signatures of its Assistant Director dated 1.7.2013.

 This status-report shows that some FIRs are being investigated. It

 appears that the figures of investments in the Scheme quoted in the

 petition are much larger than the actual investment amounts which have

 surfaced on investigation, at least on record the figures are much less.

 Learned counsel for the Enforcement Directorate states that when called

 upon, some investors are quoting much lower figures while others are not

 responding. 140 investors have replied during investigation according to

 which a sum of `2,07,14,750/- was invested. The amounts which have

 been attached so far are to the tune of approximately `1.63 crores. The

 concerned people have left the shores of India a couple of years back and

 have never come to India, though their present whereabouts are being

 traced through Interpol. The Directors of the Companies are absconding.

 Learned counsel for the Enforcement Directorate assures and undertakes

 to this Court that there would be no laxity in the endeavours of the

 Enforcement Directorate to pursue the investigation to its logical end for

 which six months more time has been sought to conclude the

 investigation. Chand Parkash 2013.08.14 11:16 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP-14795-2011 -4- 7. We are, thus, of the view that no purpose would be served

 by further continuing these writ proceedings and dispose of the same in

 the aforesaid terms. 8. List for the final report of the Ministry of Corporate Affairs

 and Enforcement Directorate on 30.01.2014. The report be filed at least 3

 days prior to that date.