Proceedings dated 12.08.2016 of the 3rd respondent

whereby and whereunder petitioner was dismissed from service

with a demand to remit loan amount of Rs.4,16,492.05 ps.

through letter dated 22.09.2016, was challenged in this Writ

Petition. Consequently, a direction is sought to the 2nd

respondent to reinstate petitioner into service forthwith and pay

salary and all attendant benefits. 2. Petitioner's case is that he joined the services of the

2nd respondent in 1991 and got promotion in 2001 to the post of

Trade Assistant and lastly, worked in computer wing. It is

stated that as per the directions of H.R. Department, all the

employees, except Respondents 4 and 5 submitted their date of

birth certificates. It is the complaint of petitioner that at the

instigation of the 6th respondent, they have been avoiding to

submit the certificates, since they were in employment on

compassionate ground by producing fake date of birth

certificates. It seems, Respondents 4 and 5 made a complaint

against some persons who harassed them and trying to assault 2 them by intimidating and also issued legal notice dated

07.11.2009 warning one union leader namely K. Yadaiah and

others and later complained to police that their photographs

were uploaded in the website and the said case was closed as

wrong complaint wherein Respondents 4 and 5 offered apology

in inducting them into false crime. It is stated that petitioner

was made scapegoat in the complaint made by Respondents 4

and 5 by ignoring the actual culprits. It is the grievance of

petitioner that Respondents 4 and 5 became habitual of making

complaints on one person or the other to extract money under

the influence of the 6th respondent. Police also for statistical

purposes, have filed the charge sheet hurriedly simply referring

his name coercively to safeguard actual culprits and based on

the said charge sheet, Respondents 2 and 3 placed petitioner

under suspension without considering his explanation. Though

the proceedings are pending consideration, Respondents 2 and

3 referred the matter to the Chairman, Women's Complaints

Committee though there is no provision / authority to do so

during the pendency of enquiry for extraneous reasons and

later, he was dismissed from service. 3. The General Manager of Telangana Foods - 3rd

respondent filed the counter stating that as per the orders of the 3 2nd respondent, the Women's Complaints Committee including

member of an NGO 'Boomika Womens Collective' Kondaveeti

Satyavathi conducted enquiry on the charges levelled against

petitioner. It is stated that Respondents 4 and 5 working with

the Telangana Foods gave their passport size photographs in the

computer wing to petitioner for the purpose of preparation of

I.D. cards. After some days, Respondents 4 and 5 lodged a

complaint with Cyber Crime Police Station, Hyderabad stating

that some of the employees created face book accounts on their

names and placed their passport size photographs and

uploaded their faces with some defamatory lady postures and

created face book accounts with derogatory titles; based on their

complaint, FIR No. 194 of 2004 was registered for the offence

under Section 509 IPC. and Section 67(A) of the IT Act wherein

petitioner was arrested. The Organisation initiated departmental

enquiry on the ground of misconduct in official duty, hence,

petitioner was placed under suspension on 16.12.2014 and

charges were framed. Not satisfied with the explanation

submitted by him on 02.01.2015 and 03.03.2015, as morphing

and uploading photos of Respondents 4 and 5 in Face Book

account comes under Sexual harassment at work place

(Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act 2013, the matter 4 was referred to Women's Complaints Committee. Based on the

report submitted by the said Committee, petitioner was removed

from service on 12.08.2016. This respondent denied the

allegation that Respondents 4 and 5 submitted fake date of

birth certificates. It is stated that after thorough verification of

all required certificates, the authorities of Organization

appointed them on compassionate ground due to death of their

husbands. It is further stated that the organisation sanctioned

housing loan to petitioner, therefore notices were issued to

petitioner as per terms and conditions. Afterwards, petitioner

paid loan amount and all documents in respect of house were

also returned to him, hence the loan matter was closed.

Therefore harassment of the petitioner does not arise. It is also stated that petitioner was issued warn

memo on 29.07.1993 for the absence from work place and wilful

disobedience of orders of superiors, two increments with

cumulative effect were withheld on 03.09.1995 for his wrong

declaration of date of birth at the time of joining and earlier

also, petitioner was suspended on 06.10.2004 due to Criminal

Case No. 87 of 2004 registered for the offences under Sections

420 , 494 , 498-A IPC. based on the complaint of K. Naga Laxmi

and he was arrested, hence placed under suspension and 5 subsequently, he was reinstated into service. It is further stated

that Women's Complaint Committee also in the enquiry report

stated that petitioner had low esteem towards women and

earlier also, he cheated a woman, therefore the organisation

suspended him from service for his misconduct and later he was

reinstated into service upon court order which depicts that he

did not change his attitude. The additional affidavit dated

26.06.2019 of petitioner stating that he is not even being

allowed to draw PF amount standing to his credit in view of

dismissal order is baseless and false. As petitioner did not make

any representation to the official respondents to withdraw the

PF amount, permitting him to withdraw PF amount does not

arise. 4. Respondents 4 to 6 filed counter stating that

petitioner made them as parties unnecessarily in service matter

and on the said reason, Writ Petition is liable to be dismissed

with exemplary costs. The proceedings impugned pertains to

petitioner and his employer i.e. Respondents 2 and 3. Petitioner,

in his affidavit stated that Respondents 4 and 5 issued legal

notice on 07.11.2009, is correct. The said legal notice was in

2009, but petitioner cleverly linked-up the same to the police

complaint, dated 19.09.2014 to escape from the criminal action. 6 Police established during investigation that petitioner was

responsible for creation of fake profile in the Face Book Account,

but to escape from the criminal action, made false allegation

that Respondents 4 and 5 are hand-in-glove with the 6th

respondent. Petitioner suppressed the actual facts in the

affidavit as is evident from the version of LWs.1 & 2, Reports of

BSNL, Hyderabad and investigation, it is clearly established that

accused committed offences which are punishable as per Section 509 IPC & 67 (a) of the IT Act . 5. Heard Sri R. Giri Kumar, learned counsel for

petitioner and learned Additional Advocate General on behalf of

the official respondents. He placed on record a copy of the

judgment in Writ Appeal No. 248 of 2024 and submits that it is

well-settled legal proposition that the question of choice of

quantum of punishment is within the jurisdiction and discretion

of the disciplinary authority. The Court, while undertaking

judicial review of the matter, is not supposed to substitute its

own opinion on reappraisal of facts. In exercise of judicial

review, the Court can interfere with the punishment imposed,

when it is found to be totally irrational or is outrageous in

defiance of logic. This limited scope of judicial review is

permissible and interference is available only when the 7 punishment is shockingly disproportionate, suggesting lack of

good faith. Otherwise, merely because in the opinion of the

Court, lesser punishment would have been more appropriate,

cannot be a ground to interfere with the discretion of the

departmental authority. 6. The gist of the charges alleged against petitioner is

that while performing his duties in Finance & Accounts Section,

during September, 2014, he created fake profiles in the face

book with passport size photographs of Smt. S. Bharathi, Smt.

G. Indiramma - Respondents 4 and 5, who were working in the

Organisation as Material Movement works which caused severe

pain to them and it damaged the reputation of concerned and

Organisation also. A perusal of the proceedings No.

TF/HRD/E/352/1991-16, dated Nil.06.2016 of the 2nd

respondent would go to show that since the Enquiry Officer did

not give a clear verdict, the matter was handed over to the

Women's Complaints Committee for Prevention of Sexual

Harassment of Women at Workplace, which committee,

submitted its report observing that petitioner has very low

esteem of women in general and it is noticed by the Committee

from records that earlier also, he had cheated another woman

and was also suspended from service and later was re-instated 8 on court orders. The Committee further felt that petitioner with

his deliberate act of morphing and uploading the photos of

complainants who were appointed on compassionate grounds

caused damage to dignity and decency of these women, hence,

he was dismissed from service with immediate effect as per the

penalty for major misconduct provided under Certified Standing

Order No. 18.1.7 with a further warning that if any other

instances of morphing of images of women working in

Telangana Foods or outside is brought to the notice of the

officers, strict criminal proceedings would be initiated against

him as per the procedure. The prime contention of petitioner in

this regard is that Respondents 4 and 5 with the instigation of

the 6th respondent, implicated him with the subject allegations. 7. Here it is to be noted that Respondents 4 and 5

during the hearing had taken out I.A.No. 1 of 2023 to take on

record the documents i.e. FIR No. 194 of 2014, copy of charge

sheet and judgment in C.C.No. 46 of 2017, copies of letter dated

20.10.2017, list of property sent to Magistrate, BSNL Bill,

statements of Respondents 4 and 5 recorded by Cybercrime

Police and confession-cum-seizure panchnama. Those

documents were taken on record by order dated 03.04.2024.

The said documents would show that based on the complaint 9 lodged by Smt. S. Bharathi, Assistant Commissioner of Police,

Cyber Crime Police Station, Cyberabad registered Crime No. 194

of 2014 for the offences under Sections 509 IPC. and 67 (A) of IT

Act . During the course of investigation, he examined

Smt. Siddam Bharathi and Smt. Giri Indira and recorded their

detailed statements; IP logs during various logins into fake

profile created by the accused were obtained from Facebook

authorities; from the analysis of IP address, it was found that

they belong to the mobile / internet service provider - BSNL,

addressed a requisition to BSNL, Hyderabad through the office

of the Deputy Commissioner of Police, Crimes, Cyberabad for

procuring details of IP addresses. From the report furnished by

BSNL, it was found that internet was accessed from M/s A.P.

Foods, IDA, Nacharam and from the internet/phone connection

taken on the name of Mr. Ravi Kumar Kamalla, R/o Bibinagar,

Nalgonda, phone number of BSNL land line is 08685-278066;

on his apprehension, petitioner admitted his guilt and he along

with a copy of BSNL landline bill, CPU of his personal computer

and router through which he accessed internet at his house

were produced before the investigating agency where his

confession was recorded. In the said confession, petitioner

admitted that in June 2014, using the scanned passport size 10 photographs of two women, he created two facebook profiles in

the names of 'Bharathi Siddam' and 'Bharathi Bharatamma'

using two user Ids.: ' [email protected] ' and

' [email protected] ' created previously respectively, he

uploaded obscene pictures obtained from internet on these two

profiles, also sent 'Add/Friend requests' to his other company's

colleagues who have facebook accounts; he did this as he could

not bear their active role in HMS union as they cannot know

about the fake profiles created on them as they are not

computer or internet savvy; he used to login to these profiles

from his computer in Accounts Section of the company and also

from his personal computer at his house using BSNL phone-

cum-internet connection using a router. In the last week of

October, when he tried to login, he could not do so. From the

above, it can clearly be held that petitioner is responsible for the

offence alleged against him. 8. Petitioner had also taken out I.A.No.1 of 2019 which

was allowed by order dated 31.07.2023, stating that he was

acquitted by the competent criminal Court on the charges as

neither complainants nor any other witnesses gave evidence in

support of the charges framed against him, hence, he prayed

that he may be reinstated into service. Admittedly, in the 11 criminal case, petitioner was acquitted of the charges as the

prosecution failed to prove his guilt beyond reasonable doubt,

by examining the witnesses. However, it is well settled that 'the

nature of proceedings being wholly separate and distinct,

acquittal in criminal proceedings does not entitle the delinquent

employee for any benefit in the latter or automatic discharge in

departmental proceedings'. In view of the same, it can be said

that acquittal of petitioner in criminal case does not enure to his

benefit. 9. Further, as is evident from the report submitted by

Bhumika Women's Collective, on 23.05.2016, when they

enquired about reason behind committal of alleged charge,

petitioner did not respond to any of the queries. Ultimately, for

the question that 'why he did morph the photos of Respondents

4 and 5, petitioner replied that they are illiterate and he thought

that they could not access the Apps. The Committee therefore,

taking into consideration the earlier incidents where he cheated

a married woman for which he was suspended, recommended

for his dismissal from service. If at all petitioner is not guilty of

the charges, he ought to have endeavoured to establish the said

fact by producing the evidence in support thereof. In the

absence of same and in view of the observations made by the 12 Women's Collective, the other contentions made by learned

counsel for petitioner pales into insignificance. 10. Taking the totality of circumstances into account

and in view of the legal position quoted supra, this Court is not

inclined to grant the relief sought by petitioner, hence, the Writ

Petition is liable to be dismissed. 11. The Writ Petition is accordingly, dismissed. No

costs. 12 Consequently, the miscellaneous Applications, if

any shall stand closed. -------------------------------------- NAGESH BHEEMAPAKA, J
09th September 2024

ksld