% 30.04.2024 1. By way of present application filed under Section 438 read with Section 482 Cr.P.C., the petitioner/applicant seeks anticipatory bail in FIR
 No.272/2023 registered under Sections 306 / 34 IPC at P.S. Dwarka, Sector-
 23, New Delhi. 2. Learned counsel for the applicants submits that the deceased had
 taken cash loans from the applicant, which also had been partly paid from
 time to time. He submits that a perusal of the material placed on record
 would show that the deceased was in the habit of taking loans not only from
 the applicant but also from various other persons, however, it is only the
 applicant who has been arrayed as an accused in the present case. He further
 submits that though the Investigating Officer has collected the suicide note
 as well as the video clip, the same in no manner would show that the

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 04/05/2024 at 00:22:13
 applicant had instigated or abetted the deceased to commit suicide. Lastly, it
 is submitted that the applicant has already joined the investigation. 3. Learned APP for the State, duly assisted by learned counsel for the
 complainant, on the other hand, has vehemently opposed the bail
 application. He submits that in the suicide note, the deceased has alleged
 that the applicant was putting pressure on him. In the suicide note, it was
 alleged that he had taken loan from bank and had also withdrawn amounts
 from GPF to pay the interests on the principal loan amount. The deceased
 has stated that the interest charged by the applicant was exorbitant as the
 deceased had already paid amounts equivalent to 1 ½ times of the principal
 towards the interest, however, the principal remained as it is. It is also stated
 that the video clipping of the deceased has also been recovered from his
 mobile phone in which he has stated that he had paid Rs.1.5 crores towards
 interest. It is also stated that a perusal of the CDR of the deceased and the
 applicant would show that there were multiple calls exchanged between
 them including some which were one day prior to the date of the incident.
 He also submits that the applicant has extended threats to the wife of the
 deceased. 4. I have heard learned counsels for the parties as well as learned APP
 for the State and have also gone through the material placed on record. A perusal of the suicide note as well as transcript of the video clipping
 shot by the deceased would show that the deceased had taken loans not only
 from the applicant but also from the various other persons including from
 banks. On a prima facie reading of the same, it appears that the deceased
 was stuck in a debt trap wherein he had taken one loan in order to repay

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 04/05/2024 at 00:22:13
 another. The call detail records placed on record also show that a day prior
 to the incident, it was the deceased who had reached out to the applicant. 5. Keeping in view the aforesaid facts and circumstances and the fact
 that the applicant has already joined the investigation, the interim protection
 granted to the applicant vide order dated 08.01.2024 is made absolute and it
 is directed that in the event of arrest, the applicant be released on bail subject
 to his furnishing a personal bond in the sum of ₹25,000/- with one surety of
 the like amount to the satisfaction of the Arresting Officer/Investigating
 Officer/SHO of the concerned Police Station and also subject to the
 following further conditions:- This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 04/05/2024 at 00:22:14 (vii) The applicant would not get in touch with the family of
 the deceased directly or indirectly. 6. The application is disposed of in the above terms. MANOJ KUMAR OHRI, J
 APRIL 30, 2024
 na

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 04/05/2024 at 00:22:14