2025:HHC:12652

 IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH, SHIMLA

 Cr. MP(M) No. 2836 of 2024
 Reserved on: 28.04.2025
 Date of Decision: 06.05.2025. Hon'ble Mr Justice Rakesh Kainthla, Judge.
 Whether approved for reporting?1 Yes. For the Petitioner : Mr. Bhupinder Singh Ahuja,
 Advocate. For the Respondent : Mr. Jitender Sharma, Additional
 Advocate General. Rakesh Kainthla, Judge

 The petitioner has filed the present petition for

 seeking regular bail. It has been asserted that the petitioner was

 arrested vide FIR No. 83 of 2023, dated 25.9.2023, registered for

 the commission of offences punishable under Sections 20 , 25 and 29 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances, Act (in

 short "the ND& PS Act ') at Police Station Panchrukhi, District

 Kangra, H.P. As per the prosecution case, 1.056 kilograms of 1 Whether reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the judgment? Yes. 2025:HHC:12652

contraband was recovered from the petitioner. The prosecution's

case is false. The petitioner has been in judicial custody since

25.9.2023. There is a huge difference in the quantity recovered

and the quantity received in SFSL, and the whole case has become

suspect. The petitioner would abide by the terms and conditions

which the Court may impose. Hence, the petition. 2. The petition is opposed by filing a status report

asserting that the police party was on patrolling duty on

25.9.2023, when they received a secret information at 1.40 AM

that vehicles bearing registration No. HP-37F-7813 and HP-37G- 3170 were transporting charas. The police reduced the

information to writing and sent it to the Supervisory Officer. The

police intercepted the vehicles and associated two independent

witnesses. The police recovered a carry bag from the dashboard of

the vehicle bearing registration No. HP-37F-7813, which

contained 1.056 kilograms of charas. The police arrested the

occupants of the vehicle and seized the charas. The charas was

sent to FSL, and it was confirmed to be an extract of cannabis and

a sample of charas containing 26.46 w/w resin. The police filed a

charge sheet before the Court. Five witnesses out of nineteen

cited by the prosecution have been examined till 3.1.2025. The 3 2025:HHC:12652

petitioner would indulge in the commission of a similar offence

in case of his release on bail. He would influence the witnesses. Hence, the status report. 3. I have heard Mr. Bhupinder Singh Ahuja, learned

counsel for the petitioner and Mr. Jitender Sharma, learned

Additional Advocate General, for the respondent-State. 4. Mr. Bhupinder Singh Ahuja, learned counsel for the

petitioner, submitted that the petitioner is innocent and he was

falsely implicated. As per the prosecution's case, 1.056 kilograms

of charas was recovered from the dashboard of the vehicle. The

case property was produced before the learned Additional Chief

Judicial Magistrate, Palampur. Three samples of 40 grams each

were taken, and 940 grams of charas was packed in the parcel. The result of the analysis shows that the actual weight of the

cannabis was 38.711 grams, therefore, it is highly doubtful that

the police had recovered 1.056 kilograms of charas. The benefit of

the discrepancy in the weight is to be given to the accused. The

rigours of Section 37 of ND&PS do not apply to the present case,

and the petitioner is entitled to bail. 2025:HHC:12652 5. Mr. Jitender Sharma, learned Additional Advocate

General, for the respondent-State, submitted that this Court has

to see a prima facie case while deciding the bail petition. The

status report prima facie shows that the petitioner was found in

possession of a commercial quantity of charas. The rigours of Section 37 of the ND& PS Act apply to the present case. Therefore,

it was prayed that the present petition be dismissed. 6. I have given considerable thought to the submissions

made at the bar and have gone through the records carefully. 7. The parameters for granting bail were considered by

the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Ramratan v. State of M.P. , 2024 SCC

OnLine SC 3068, wherein it was observed as follows: - 8. The present petition has to be decided as per the

parameters laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court. 9. The status report shows that the police intercepted a

vehicle bearing registration No. HP-37F-7813 and recovered a

carry bag containing 1.056 kilograms of charas from its

dashboard. The driver of the vehicle identified himself as Avikash

Minhas (present petitioner). The petitioner was present in the

vehicle from which the recovery was made. In Madan Lal versus

State of H.P. (2003) 7 SCC 465: 2003 SCC (Cri) 1664: 2003 SCC

OnLineSC 874, the contraband was recovered from a vehicle, and it 7 2025:HHC:12652

was held that all the occupants of the vehicle would be in

conscious possession of the contraband. It was observed: It has not been shown by the accused-appellants that the
 possession was not conscious in the logical background of Sections 35 and 54 of the Act." 10. Therefore, in view of the binding precedent of the

Hon'ble Supreme Court, the petitioner has to be treated to be in

possession of the charas. 11. The weight of charas was found to be 1.056 grams on

the spot. Learned Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate found the

weight of the charas to be 1.038 kilograms, and three samples of

40 grams were separated of the recovered contraband. 2025:HHC:12652 12. It was laid down by this Court in a case titled Sohan Lal

alias Bhau and others Vs. State of H.P. and others , 2019 STPL 3203

HP, that if there is a variation in the report of analysis and the

certificate issued under Section 52-A of the ND& PS Act , the

certificate will prevail. It was observed: - 13. Therefore, as per the judgment, the certificate issued

by the learned Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate stating that

the quantity of charas was found to be 1.038 kilograms, which is a

commercial quantity, has to be accepted as correct. Hence, the

rigours of Section 37 of the ND& PS Act will apply to it. 14. Section 37 of the ND& PS Act provides that in an

offence involving commercial quantity, the court should be

satisfied that the accused is not guilty of the commission of an

offence and is not likely to commit any offence while on bail. Section 37 of the NDPS Act reads as follows: 15. This section was interpreted by the Hon'ble Supreme

Court in Union of India Versus Niyazuddin & Another (2018) 13 SCC

738, and it was held that in the absence of the satisfaction that the

accused is not guilty of an offence and he is not likely to commit

an offence while on bail, he cannot be released on bail. It was

observed: 8. The accusation in the present case is about the fourth
 factor, namely, commercial quantity. Be that as it may,
 once the Public Prosecutor opposes the application for bail
 to a person accused of the enumerated offences under Section 37 of the NDPS Act, in case the court proposes to
 grant bail to such a person, two conditions are to be
 mandatorily satisfied in addition to the normal
 requirements under the provisions of the Cr.P.C . or any
 other enactment. 16. This position was reiterated in State of Kerala Versus

Rajesh, AIR 2020 SC 721, wherein it was held: 20. The scheme of Section 37 reveals that the exercise of
power to grant bail is not only subject to the limitations
contained under Section 439 of the CrPC but is also subject
to the limitation placed by Section 37 , which commences
with the non-obstante clause. The operative part of the
said section is in the negative form, prescribing the
enlargement of bail to any person accused of the
commission of an offence under the Act unless two
conditions are satisfied. The first condition is that the
prosecution must be given an opportunity to oppose the
application, and the second is that the Court must be
satisfied that there are reasonable grounds for believing
that he is not guilty of such an offence. If either of these
two conditions is not satisfied, the ban on granting bail
operates. 21. The expression "reasonable grounds" means something
more than prima facie grounds. It contemplates substantial
probable causes for believing that the accused is not guilty
of the alleged offence. The reasonable belief contemplated
in the provision requires the existence of such facts and
circumstances as are sufficient in themselves to justify
satisfaction that the accused is not guilty of the alleged
offence. In the case on hand, the High Court seems to have
completely overlooked the underlying object of Section 37 that in addition to the limitations provided under the CrPC ,
or any other law for the time being in force, regulating the
grant of bail, its liberal approach in the matter of bail under
the NDPS Act is indeed uncalled for." 2025:HHC:12652 17. A similar view was taken in Union of India v. Mohd . Nawaz Khan, (2021) 10 SCC 100: (2021) 3 SCC (Cri) 721: 2021 SCC

OnLine SC 1237 wherein it was observed at page 110: 22. The standard prescribed for the grant of bail is
 "reasonable ground to believe" that the person is not guilty
 of the offence. Interpreting the standard of "reasonable
 grounds to believe", a two-judge Bench of this Court
 in Shiv Shanker Kesari [Union of India v. Shiv Shanker Kesari ,
 (2007) 7 SCC 798: (2007) 3 SCC (Cri) 505], held that : (SCC
 pp. 801-02, paras 7-8 & 10-11)
 "7. The expression used in Section 37(1)(b)(ii) is
 "reasonable grounds". The expression means something
 more than prima facie grounds. It connotes substantial
 probable causes for believing that the accused is not
 guilty of the offence charged, and this reasonable belief
 contemplated, in turn, points to the existence of such
 facts and circumstances as are sufficient in themselves to
 justify the recording of satisfaction that the accused is
 not guilty of the offence charged. 8. The word "reasonable" has in law the prima facie
 meaning of reasonable in regard to those
 circumstances of which the actor, called on to act
 reasonably, knows or ought to know. It is difficult to
 give an exact definition of the word "reasonable". 2025:HHC:12652

 '7. ... Stroud's Judicial Dictionary, 4th Edn., p. 2258
 states that it would be unreasonable to expect an
 exact definition of the word "reasonable". Reason
 varies in its conclusions according to the
 idiosyncrasy of the individual and the times and
 circumstances in which he thinks. The reasoning
 which built up the old scholastic logic sounds now
 like the jingling of a child's toy.'
 [See MCD v. Jagan Nath Ashok Kumar [MCD v. Jagan
 Nath Ashok Kumar, (1987) 4 SCC 497], SCC p. 504, para
 7 and Gujarat Water Supply & Sewerage
 Board v. Unique Erectors (Gujarat) (P) Ltd. [Gujarat
 Water Supply & Sewerage Board v. Unique Erectors
 (Gujarat) (P) Ltd., (1989) 1 SCC 532]]
 *** 10. The word "reasonable" signifies "in accordance
 with reason". In the ultimate analysis, it is a
 question of fact whether a particular act is
 reasonable or not, depends on the circumstances in a
 given situation. (See Municipal Corpn. of Greater
 Mumbai v. Kamla Mills Ltd. [Municipal Corpn. of
 Greater Mumbai v. Kamla Mills Ltd. (2003) 6 SCC 315] 11. The court, while considering the application for
 bail with reference to Section 37 of the Act, is not
 called upon to record a finding of not guilty. It is for
 the limited purpose, essentially confined to the
 question of releasing the accused on bail, that the
 court is called upon to see if there are reasonable
 grounds for believing that the accused is not guilty
 and records its satisfaction about the existence of
 such grounds. But the court has not to consider the
 matter as if it is pronouncing a judgment of acquittal
 and recording a finding of not guilty." (emphasis supplied) 23. Based on the above precedent, the test which the High
Court and this Court are required to apply while granting
bail is whether there are reasonable grounds to believe that 16 2025:HHC:12652

 the accused has not committed an offence and whether he
 is likely to commit any offence while on bail. Given the
 seriousness of offences punishable under the NDPS Act and
 in order to curb the menace of drug trafficking in the
 country, stringent parameters for the grant of bail under
 the NDPS Act have been prescribed." 18. It was held in Union of India v. Ajay Kumar Singh , 2023

SCC OnLine SC 346, that the bail cannot be granted without

complying with the requirements of Section 37 of the NDPS Act. It

was observed: and (ii) the court is satisfied that there are reasonable
 grounds for believing that he is not guilty of such an
 offence and that he is not likely to commit any such offence
 while on bail. 15. For the sake of convenience Section 37(1) is reproduced
 hereinbelow:-- 2025:HHC:12652 (i) the Public Prosecutor has been given an
 opportunity to oppose the application for such
 release, and (ii) where the Public Prosecutor opposes the
 application, the court is satisfied that there are
 reasonable grounds for believing that he is not
 guilty of such offence and that he is not likely
 to commit any offence while on bail." 16. In view of the above provisions, it is implicit that no
 person accused of an offence involving trade in a
 commercial quantity of narcotics is liable to be released on
 bail unless the court is satisfied that there are reasonable
 grounds for believing that he is not guilty of such an
 offence and that he is not likely to commit any offence
 while on bail. 19. It was held in State of Meghalaya v. Lalrintluanga Sailo,

2024 SCC OnLine SC 1751, that the grant of bail without

considering Section 37 of the NDPS Act is impermissible. It was

observed: 6. While considering the cases under the NDPS Act , one
 cannot be oblivious of the objects and reasons for bringing
 the said enactment after repealing the then existing laws 18 2025:HHC:12652

relating to Narcotic drugs. The object and reasons given in
the acts itself reads thus:-- In the decision in Collector of Customs, New
Delhi v. Ahmadalieva Nodira (2004) 3 SCC 549, the three-
judge bench of this Court considered the provisions under Section 37(1)(b) as also 37(1)(b)(ii) of the NDPS Act , with
regard to the expression "reasonable grounds" used
therein. This Court held that it means something more
than the prima facie grounds and that it contemplates
substantial and probable causes for believing that the
accused is not guilty of the alleged offence. Furthermore, it
was held that the reasonable belief contemplated in the
provision would require the existence of such facts and
circumstances as are sufficient in themselves to justify
satisfaction that the accused is not guilty of the alleged
offence. As relates to the twin conditions under Section 37(1)(b) (ii) of the NDPS Act , viz., that, firstly, there are reasonable
grounds for believing that the accused is not guilty of such
offence and, secondly, he is not likely to commit any
offence while on bail it was held therein that they are
cumulative and not alternative. Satisfaction of the
existence of those twin conditions had to be based on the
'reasonable grounds', as referred to above . 7. In the decision in State of Kerala v. Rajesh (2020) 12 SCC
122, after reiterating the broad parameters laid down by this Court to be followed while considering a bail
application moved by an accused involved in offences 19 2025:HHC:12652

 under the NDPS Act , in paragraph 18 thereof this Court
 held that the scheme of Section 37 of the NDPS Act would
 reveal that the exercise of power to grant bail in such cases
 is not only subject to the limitations contained under Section 439 of the Code of Criminal Procedure but also
 subject to the limitation placed by Section 37(1)(b) (ii), NDPS Act . Further, it was held that in case one of the
 two conditions thereunder is not satisfied, the ban for
 granting bail would operate. 8. Thus, the provisions under Section 37(1)(b)(ii) of
 the NDPS Act and the decisions referred supra reveal the
 consistent view of this Court that while considering the bail
 application made by an accused involved in an offence
 under NDPS Act a liberal approach ignoring the mandate
 under Section 37 of the NDPS Act is impermissible.
 Recording a finding mandated under Section 37 of the NDPS
 Act, which is a sine qua non for granting bail to an accused
 under the NDPS Act , cannot be avoided while passing
 orders on such applications.". 20. There is sufficient material on record to show the

involvement of the petitioner in the commission of a crime. 21. It was submitted that there is delay in the progress of

the trial, and the petitioner is entitled to bail on the ground of

delay. Reliance was placed upon the judgment of this Court in Rajesh Kumar v. State of H.P. 2024:HHC:8406 in support of this

submission. Certified copies of the order sheets have not been

filed to show that the delay is not attributable to the petitioner. Further, the status report shows that the statements of five

witnesses have been recorded. In Rajesh Kumar (supra), the 20 2025:HHC:12652

matter was listed after six months, and not a single witness was

examined. Therefore, the Court granted bail to the petitioner. This was held to be a violation of the right to a speedy trial of the

accused. In the present case, it has not been shown that the

matter was listed after a prolonged time. Therefore, the cited

judgment does not apply to the present case. 22. In view of the above, the petitioner is not entitled to

bail; hence, the present petition fails and the same is dismissed. However, the petitioner is at liberty to approach the Court in case

the trial is not concluded within a reasonable time. 23. The observation made herein before shall remain

confined to the disposal of the instant petition and will have no

bearing, whatsoever, on the merits of the case. (Rakesh Kainthla)
 Judge
 6th May, 2025
 (Chander)