1. Original informant, who set law into motion by filing FIR

No.I-153 of 2014 against present respondents, is dissatisfied by the

judgment and order of acquittal passed by learned Additional Sessions

Judge, Chhatrapati Sambhajinagar in Sessions Case No. 10 of 2015.

Original informant has also pressed into service above Criminal

Application bearing No.5012 of 2024 by raising prayers to stay the

impugned judgment and order to the extent of releasing gold in favour of

original accused Nos.2, 3 and 4 (i.e. respondents herein). FACTUAL MATRIX 2. In nutshell, the case before learned trial Court was that,

present appellant lodged FIR against respondent nos.2 to 5 on

14.06.2014, on the premise that, she was married, had children and her

husband worked abroad. She got acquainted with accused no.1 Anil

Chandan Pasrate (since deceased). They both exchanged their phone

numbers to each other and even deceased accused used to visit her. He

expressed his love towards her and assured her of marriage by giving

divorce to his wife. In 2011, when her children were out of the house, -3- Cri.Appeal.1076.2024. she claimed that by mixing something in her tea, he had forcibly

established physical relationship with her. He used to threatened to make

her photographs viral, demanded money from her and used to forcibly

maintain physical relations with her for almost four years. She also

permit him to operate her bank locker and finally accused took away gold

ornaments from the locker with her consent and knowledge for the

purpose of raising loan and ultimately refused to return it. Having felt

cheated, she lodged report against accused no.1 and his family members,

resulting into registration of crime no. I-153 of 2014 for offence

punishable under sections 376(i), 328, 385, 406, 114, 323, 504, 506 read

with section 34 of Indian Penal Code ( IPC ). Investigation culminated into

filing of charge-sheet and trial was conducted vide Sessions Case No. 10

of 2015. By judgment and order dated 03.10.2024, trial ended into

acquittal of all accused from all charges. 3. Feeling aggrieved by the judgment and order of acquittal,

both, Appeal as well as Criminal Application are pressed into service,

more particularly clause 5 of the operative part of the judgment, which

reads as under: SUBMISSIONS

On behalf of Appellant : 4. Learned counsel for appellant pointed out that, informant,

who is a victim, was a married lady. That, accused happens to be her

relative, took disadvantage of her being alone and her husband being

away and abroad. He pointed out that, he made her drink laced tea and

sexually exploited her, took photographs of her in nude condition and by

threatening to show the same to her relatives, he blackmailed her and

time to time against her wish, accused sexually ravished her. According

to learned counsel, merely because of fear of shame, victim did not lodge

report at that time. Learned counsel further submitted that, taking

disadvantage of acquittance and above photographs, he forcibly

accompanied her to her bank, joined him as co-operator of her locker and

in her absence took away the 20 Tolas gold belonging to her. That, there

is cheating as well as sexual exploitation. That, victim has finally

approached police and has lodged report. Learned counsel pointed out

that, victim has narrated entire story in her evidence at Exh.89. That, to

led corroboration she had also examined another relative. He pointed out

that even bank officials and witnesses from financial institution, are -5- Cri.Appeal.1076.2024. examined on the point of operation of locker and borrowing loan. Thus,

according to learned counsel, accused has not only sexually exploited

victim, but has also retained gold ornaments belonging to informant and

as he refused to return the same, complaint was lodged. Learned counsel

pointed out that, there was overwhelming evidence regarding

commission of forceful rape as well as cheating and taking away gold

belonging to informant. That, learned trial court failed to consider and

appreciate informant's evidence and not only acquitted the accused, but

also refused to handover gold belonging to her. Thus, according to

learned counsel, the order of trial court acquitting accused as well as

directing the handing over of gold ornaments to original accused nos.2 to

4 is illegal, erroneous and perverse and is required to be interfered by

allowing the appeal. On behalf of Respondents : 5. Learned counsel for respondent nos.2 to 5 pointed out that,

allegations are false, baseless and afterthought. That, informant in spite

of being married, and in spite of having children, had maintained friendly

relations and subsequently willingly indulged in consensual sexual

relations. He pointed out that, the acquaintance of said relations were for

four years. That, main accused is now no more. Present respondents are

parents and family members of main accused. That, they are falsely -6- Cri.Appeal.1076.2024. implicated. He pointed out that, as regards to allegations of cheating and

taking away gold ornaments is concerned, there is no credible or legally

acceptable evidence. That, complaint being belated, there is no proof of

ownership of gold ornaments and therefore, learned trial court

committed no error whatsoever in passing the impugned judgment. He

pointed out that, at no point of time, either during pendency of trial or

even after conclusion of trial, any proceedings were initiated, supported

with any material regarding ownership of ornaments so as to assert claim

over it. That, present criminal application for return of gold ornaments

has no basis or foundation and consequently it is urged to be rejected. 6. After hearing the above submissions and on complete re-

appreciation of the evidence adduced before the trial court, it is emerging

that, present appellant had lodged report against accused no.1 Anil (since

deceased) for commission of offence under sections 376(i) , 328 , 385 , 406 , 114 , 323 , 504 , 506 r/w section 34 of IPC. Present accused nos.3, 4

and 5 seems to be parents and sister of main accused no.1, who

indisputably has expired during pendency of trial itself. 7. Substance of the charge is that, on the promise of marriage

and by making informant drink laced tea, she was sexually ravished.

Photographs of said episodes were allegedly used to repeatedly sexually -7- Cri.Appeal.1076.2024. exploit her. Second allegation is that, by operating her bank locker, 20

Tolas gold has been taken away without her consent for raising loan and

retaining the gold ornaments. 8. In the trial court, prosecution seems to have adduced

evidence of in all seven witnesses i.e. PW1 victim informant; PW2 relative

of PW1; PW3 Vivek, PW4 Amrutlal and PW5 Sandip, Bank Officials; PW6

Sagar, brother of informant and PW7 P.I. Sk. Salim, Investigating Officer. 9. Here, crucial evidence is of victim PW1, PW2 her relative

and PW6 her brother. On visiting their testimonies and answers given in

cross examination, it is emerging that, victim is a married lady having

children and her husband seems to be working abroad. From her

testimony, it is emerging that, during her visits to her first maternal

cousin's place, she got acquainted with accused no.1 Anil, who happens

to be brother-in-law of her such sister. Her testimony shows that she and

accused no.1 exchanged their numbers and were talking to each other.

According to her, initially there was marriage proposal i.e. her marriage

with accused no.1, but said proposal had not materialize. She testified

that, during their meetings, accused expressed his love towards her and

even assured to remarry her by giving divorce to his wife. She claims that

she had turned down the proposal, but he insisted for maintaining -8- Cri.Appeal.1076.2024. relations. Her evidence shows that, there was acquaintance between

them since almost 2011 and are admittedly relatives of each other though

distant one. 10. Victim / informant's evidence is at Exh.89 goes to show that,

according to her, one day accused called her at his place on the pretext of

he to be unwell and there she claims that he sought sexual favours from

her and on her refusal he offered her tea, which according to her was

intoxicated and during its influence he established sexual relationship.

This according to her was the first sexual encounter, but as stated above,

she is unable to give date, month or year. According to her, since

thereafter by threatening to make her photographs known to others, he

maintained sexual relations with her against her wish and even

demanded money from her. Then she states that in 2013, she shifted to

Pune i.e. after return of her husband, but still according to her, accused

Anil approached her and threatening to kill her children. To save her

marriage, she claims to have succumbed to the demands. Then she states

that, in 2012, once while she was going to operate her locker at Jalgaon

Peoples Bank at Aurangabad, accused joined her, entered his name also

along with her for operating the bank locker and after seeing the gold in

locker, he demanded the gold for purchasing flat. She claims that, he

threatened and even took away the gold from her against her wish i.e. 20 -9- Cri.Appeal.1076.2024. tola gold by operating locker behind her back. Again in 2014, accused

called her on the pretext of returning the gold, but accused and his wife

beat her and drove her out of the house. Therefore, she approached

Jawaharnagar Police Station. 11. On visiting her cross, it is emerging that, she has admitted

that her marriage was performed in 2002. She admitted about not

inquiring with accused about his wife. She admitted acquaintance,

accused coming to Aurangabad from Buldhana to meet her, they both

meeting outside the house. She is unable to tell when he maintained

physical relations with her by expressing his love. She admitted that,

since first visit of accused to her sister's place till she visited his place,

there were no demand of physical relations. She is unable to remember

that she herself booked air tickets of herself and accused for a trip from

Aurangabad to Bangalore, but she admitted that they had stayed at

Bangalore as well as Kuala Lumpur. She attending religious function with

him or joining for marriage ceremony of his friend and to be in the

company of accused along with own son of which there are photographs

which she has admitted to be correct. There are omissions about she

gaining consciousness, scolding accused for having sexual relations with

her after making her drink tea. -10- Cri.Appeal.1076.2024. 12. In further cross examination, she has admitted that she had

authorized accused to operate her said locker and admitted that he was

handling the locker for a period of one year and that after two years

thereafter she has lodged complaint relating to the articles in locker. Rest

is all denial. 13. Other witnesses i.e. her relative and brothers merely deposed

about getting knowledge about accused having sexual relations with

victim. Remaining witnesses are on the point of victim having bank

locker, accused operating it, mortgaging the gold for borrowing loan and

become defaulter. So much is the only evidence. 14. Here, as seen from above, the victim a married lady and also

a mother, alleges initial acquittance with deceased accused and

subsequently he expressing his love towards her while her husband was

abroad. She claims to have got acquainted with accused no.1 in 2011 and

said relations seems to have lasted for almost four years of which she has

herself admitted. Except oral allegations about accused making her drink

laced tea at his house during her visit to him, there is nothing. She has

not stated the period of such episodes. Her evidence shows that she

herself booked their tickets to go from Mumbai to Bangalore and Kuala

Lumpur. Therefore, apparently, she seems to be a consenting adult to -11- Cri.Appeal.1076.2024. whatever relations were established between them. Her answers in the

cross renders her allegations about being threatened and forced upon

against her wish itself doubtful. Therefore, charge under section 376(i) of

IPC fails. 15. In support of allegation of 328 of IPC is concerned, there is

no distinct and cogent evidence. There is no prompt reporting, rather

even thereafter, there is continued acquaintance permitting accused to

operate her bank locker. There is no evidence suggesting availability of

essential ingredients of attracting section 328 of IPC. 16. Her answers in cross examination that accused was with her

when she went to open bank locker and her answer that she joined him

and allowed him to operate her bank account inflicts serious blow to her

accusations about criminal breach of trust regarding taking away her gold

ornaments. As pointed out by learned counsel for respondents, there

does not seem to be any efforts by her during trial to establish ownership

and possession of so called 20 Tolas gold to be part in the locker. There is

no evidence to show that accused behind her back opened the locker and

took away 20 Tolas gold. Though there is witness about gold being

mortgaged for raising housing finance, it was expected of complainant to

cogently establish that the said gold indeed belonged to her. There is no

distinct evidence in this direction also. -12- Cri.Appeal.1076.2024. 17. Learned counsel for appellant seeks indulgence of this court

in appeal for granting stay to the order passed by learned Additional

Sessions Judge directing handing over of gold to accused nos.2, 3 and 4.

As pointed out, no distinct efforts were done by appellant either during

pendency of trial or post conclusion of trial asserting claim and

ownership over the gold ornaments i.e. by invoking section 452 of Cr.P.C.

Though, now in appeal attempt is made to bring on record documents of

ownership of gold, entitlement of the gold is to be established in the trial

and not in this court. For said reasons, prayer for stay to the operative

part of clause (5) also cannot be granted. 18. In the light of above discussion, there is no perversity in the

finding arrived at by the learned trial court. No patent error or illegality

has been brought to our notice in the appeal. Resultantly, there being no

merits in the same, I proceed to pass the following order.