1. The petitioner is the original complainant and has filed this Criminal Revision Application challenging the Order passed by the Sessions Judge, South Goa at Margao in Criminal Revision Application No, 18/2003 whereby the respondents/accused were discharged from the Criminal Case which was tiled against them by the petitioner, 2. The brief facts which are relevant for the purpose of deciding this Criminal Revision Application are as under :- 3. The Trial Court issued process against the accused on the basis of the said complaint which was filed by the complainant. The accused thereafter preferred an application for recalling the order of process which was passed by the Magistrate. The learned Magistrate however confirmed its earlier Order and dismissed the application for recall of process. 4. The accused thereafter preferred Criminal Revision Application before the Sessions Court. The Sessions Court allowed the Criminal Revision Application and discharged the accused for the offences punishable under the Mines Act . 5. The Union of India has preferred this Criminal Revision Application against the said Judgment and Order passed by the Sessions Court. 6. The learned counsel appearing on behalf of the Union of India has submitted that the Sessions Court has committed an error in discharging the accused by evaluating the evidence which was on record. He submitted that the Trial Court ought not to have pre-judged the case which was at the stage of issuance of process as the entire evidence was not brought on record by that time. It was submitted that therefore the order of discharging the accused was vitiated on account of evaluation of the evidence by the Sessions Court. The learned counsel for the Union of India submitted that at the stage when the process was issued, the Sessions Court was not expected to appreciate the evidence to find out whether any offence was in fact committed by the accused or not. In support of the said submission he relied on the Judgment of the Supreme Court in the case of State of Delhi v. Gyan Devi and Ors. , 2001 Cri.L.J. 124 and on the judgment of the Himachal Pradesh High Court reported in R.K. Vol Goldstain and Anr. v. Stanley Haque , 1979 Cri.L.J. 338. 7. The learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents submitted that the Sessions Court was justified in coming to the conclusion that no offence was made out by the prosecution. He invited my attention to the complaint which was filed by the complainant. He submitted that no material particulars were mentioned in the complaint and the exact cause of the accident was essentially the heavy downpour which had taken place for two days, as a result of which the accident had taken place. He submitted that the Sessions Court had correctly come to the conclusion that the cause of the accident was the heavy rains and that from the complaint or the report no case was made out against the accused. He further submitted that in the complaint it was alleged that the accused had committed an offence punishable under Section 72-C(1)(a) and 73 of the Mines Act, 1952. However, the complaint did not specify as to what was the contravention which was committed by the accused as laid down in the said Sections. He further submitted that no case was made out in the complaint. He submitted that no averment was made in the complaint that on account of any act or omission, on the part of the accused the two workers had died. He further submitted that there was no allegation of negligence made in the complaint. He further submitted that no categorical allegation that the dump was at 60 degrees and not at 37 degrees and therefore the accused were responsible for the death of the two workers. He submitted that criminal liability could not be fastened against the accused without making proper averments in the plaint. He submitted that it is settled law that the criminal law could not be set in motion on vague allegations. He further submitted that there were no allegations in the plaint about the breach of Regulation 106. He submitted that Section 72-C(1)(a) and Section 73 were penal provisions and unless the particular violation of any particular provision under the Act is mentioned, the accused would not be liable under the penal provisions. 8. I have heard learned counsel appearing on behalf of the Petitioner and respondents at length. I have perused the complaint that is filed by the complainant and also the order passed by the Sessions Court. The complainant in his complaint has alleged and has made a specific averment that the accused had contravened Regulation 181 of the said Regulations read with permission granted under Regulation. 106(2)(c) of the said Regulations vide letter No. Go-1/AP(106-2b)/l505 dated 14.5.99 and that the accused had failed to frame Code of Practice for dump sites. Particulars about the nature of the offence are mentioned in para 5 of the complaint. In para 4 the particulars of the accused have been given. Along with the compliant the Accident Report which is submitted by the complainant has been annexed in which particulars regarding the cause of the accident the persons who are responsible for the said accident, further information about the accident as also general information regarding the Mine have been stated in detail. The report also reveals the events before the accident, the inspection and inquiry which are made by the complainant, the result of the inquiry and the recommendations made have been stated. The report therefore attached to the complaint will have to be treated as part of the complaint. 9. After reading the complaint and the report the fact which emerge are as under:- "10. In a recent decision in State of M.P. v. S.B. Johari , . this Court, adverting to the question of quashing of charges in the light of the provisions contained in Sections 227 and 288 , 401 and 397 and 482 , Cr.P.C. did not favour the approach of the High Court in meticulously examining the materials on record for coming to the conclusion that the charge could not have been framed for a particular offence. This Court, while quashing and setting aside the order passed by the High Court, made the following observations : Judged in the light of the settled position of law as reiterated in the decisions noted above, the order under challenge in the present case does not stand the scrutiny. The High Court has erred in its approach to the case as if it was evaluating the medical evidence for the purpose of determining the question whether the charge under Section 304 / 34 , I.P.C. framed against the accused respondents 1 and 2 was likely to succeed or not. This question was to be considered by the trial Judge after recording the entire evidence in the case. It was not for the High Court to pre-judge the case at the stage when only a few witnesses (doctors) had been examined by the prosecution and that too under the direction of the High Court in the revision petition filed by the accused. The High Court has not observed that the prosecution had closed the evidence from its side. There is also no discussion or observation in the impugned order that the facts and circumstances of the case make it an exceptional case in which immediate interference of the High Court by invoking its inherent jurisdiction under Section 482 , Cr.P.C. is warranted in the interest of justice. On consideration of the matter we have no hesitation to hold that the order under challenge is vitiated on account of erroneous approach of the High Court and it is clearly unsustainable "