1. Heard learned counsel for the applicant, learned A.G.A. for the State and perused the record. 2. This application has been moved on behalf of the applicant - Akshat Bhatnagar seeking anticipatory bail in Case Crime No. 908 of 2023, under Sections 323 , 506 , 386 IPC, Police Station- Civil Lines, District- Moradabad. 3. The grand son of the informant Shaurya Bhatnagar had some friendly relation with the present applicant and both were students. It is alleged that the applicant made a demand of some money to Shaurya Bhatnagar and subsequently by way of threatening and blackmailing he grabbed a huge amount of money in several installments from the grand-son of the informant. FIR was lodged on 2.11.2023 and investigation started, which is going on. 4. It has been submitted by the learned counsel for the applicant that applicant is innocent and he has apprehension of arrest in the above-mentioned case, whereas there is no credible evidence against him. Allegations levelled against the applicant are false. Investigation is going on in the matter. It is further submitted that since the grand son of the informant Shaurya Bhatnagar and the present applicant were friends, a friendly loan of Rs.5000/- was taken by the applicant from the said Shaurya Bhatnagar through paytm app of the mother the Shaurya Bhatnagar. It is further submitted that all the other allegations levelled in the FIR are totally false and incorrect. It is further submitted that the statement of the back account of accused applicant has been annexed with the affidavit wherein there is no indication of any payment of money in the bank account of the present applicant by the grand son of the informant. It is also submitted that the applicant is a student and belongs to respectable family. He is cooperating with the investigation of the case. He is having no criminal history to his credit. In case applicant is granted anticipatory bail, he will not misuse the liberty of bail and would obey all conditions of bail. 5. Learned A.G.A. opposed the prayer for anticipatory bail. It is vehemently submitted that on several occasion money has been sent in the bank account of the present applicant, which was demanded by him as a goonda tax by threatening and blackmailing the said Shaurya Bhatnagar but however, he fairly conceded that no statement of account is available before him at this stage. 6. In Sushila Aggarwal and others vs. State (NCT of Delhi) and another , (2020) 5 SCC 1, the Hon'ble Apex Court has held that while considering an application for grant of anticipatory bail, the court has to consider the nature of the offence, the role of the person, the likelihood of his influencing the course of investigation, or tampering with evidence including intimidating witnesses, llikelihood of fleeing justice, such as leaving the country, etc. It has further been held that Courts ought to be generally guided by considerations such as the nature and gravity of the offences, the role attributed to the applicant, and the facts of the case, while considering whether to grant anticipatory bail, or refuse it. Whether to grant or not is a matter of discretion. 7. In Siddharth Vs. State of Uttar Pradesh & Another , (2022) 1 Supreme Court Cases 676, the Hon'ble Apex Court has held that personal liberty is an important aspect of our constitutional mandate. The occasion to arrest an accused during investigation arises when custodial investigation becomes necessary or it is a heinous crime or where there is a possibility of influencing the witnesses or accused may abscond. Merely because an arrest can be made because it is lawful does not mandate that arrest must be made. A distinction must be made between the existence of the power to arrest and the justification for exercise of it. If arrest is made routine, it can cause incalculable harm to the reputation and self-esteem of a person. If the Investigating Officer has no reason to believe that the accused will abscond or disobey summons and has, in fact, throughout cooperated with the investigation, then there is no compulsion on the officer to arrest the accused. 8. Considering the settled principles of law regarding anticipatory bail, submissions of the learned counsel for the parties, nature of accusation, role of applicant and all attending facts and circumstances of the case, without expressing any opinion of the merits of the case, in my view, it is a fit case for anticipatory bail to the applicant till filing of police report under Section 173(2) Cr.P.C. before the competent Court. 9. The application is allowed accordingly. 10. In the event of arrest of the applicant, he shall be released on anticipatory bail on his furnishing a personal bond of Rs.50,000/- with two sureties each in the like amount to the satisfaction of Station House Officer of the police station concerned with the following conditions:- 11. In case of default of any of the conditions, the Investigating Officer shall be at liberty to file appropriate application for cancellation of interim protection granted to the applicant. Order Date :- 1.12.2023
 
Fhd