आयकर अपीलीय अिधकरण, अहमदाबाद यायपीठ
 IN THE INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL,
 '' C'' BENCH, AHMEDABAD

 BEFORE SHRI WASEEM AHMED, ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
 And
 Ms. MADHUMITA ROY, JUDICIAL MEMBER

Sl. IT(SS)A No(s)/C.O Asset. Appeal(s) by
No(s) Year(s) Appellant vs. Respondent
 Appellant Respondent 1-2 No.193/Ahd/2019 2013-14 A.C.I.T., Chandraben Madanlal Gupta,
 With Central Bunglow No.1, 30 Rivera
 C.O.No.47Ahd/2021 Circle-2(4), Bunglow Nr. Auda garden,
 Ahmedabad. 100ft Ringh Road,
 Prahladnagar Road,
 Vejalpur,
 Ahmedabad-380015. The captioned appeals and Cross Objection have been filed at the instance
of Revenue and the Assessee against the respective orders of the Learned
Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals), Ahmedabad arising in the matter of
assessment order passed under s. 143(3) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (here-in-
after referred to as "the Act") relevant to the Assessment Year 2013-14. First, we take up IT(SS)A No. 193/AHD/2019, an appeal by the Revenue
for the AY 2013-14 in the case of Smt. Chandraben M. Gupta 2. The Revenue has raised the following grounds of appeal: IT(SS)A No.193/AHD/2019
 with C.O No. 47/Ahd/2021 with 4 others
 Asstt. Year 2013-14 3 6. On the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the Ld. CIT(A) has erred in
 law and on facts in deleting the addition of ?3,06,043/-made u/s.69C of the Act. 7. On the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the Ld. CIT(A) ought to
 have upheld the order of the A.O. 8. It is, therefore, prayed that the order of the Ld. CIT(A) be set aside and that of the A.O.
 be restored to the above extent. 3. The only effective issue raised by the Revenue is that the learned CIT-A erred
in deleting the addition made by the AO under section 68 of the Act for Rs.
1,60,24,199/- on account of bogus long term capital gain and corresponding
expenditure of Rs. 3,06,403.00 only. 4. The facts in brief are that the assessee in the present case is an individual
and deriving her income from house property, business and capital gain. There was
a search and seizure operation under section 132 of the Act dated 25th February
2016 carried out in the case of JP Iscon Group. The assessee being a part of the
group was also subject to the search proceedings. Accordingly, the notice under section 153A of the Act was issued upon the assessee. The assessee in the return
filed under section 153A of the Act declared long term capital gain of Rs.
1,53,02,199/- on the sale of shares of M/s Swaca Business Machine Ltd. (hereafter
referred as SBML) which was claimed as exempted income under section 10(38) of
the Act. During the assessment proceeding, the assessee submitted that the shares
of M/s SBML were purchased as on 25th March 2002 which were dematerialized as
on 2nd April 2012 through a broker namely Monarch Research & Brokerage Private
Ltd. Subsequently, the shares were sold during the month of September 2012 which
has given rise to the impugned long term capital gain. The assessee in support of
sale of shares furnished copy of physical share held by her, copy of statement from
broker evidencing on line sale of shares through stock exchange and copy of bank
statement showing payment received through banking channel after payment of
Securities Transactions Tax. IT(SS)A No.193/AHD/2019
 with C.O No. 47/Ahd/2021 with 4 others
 Asstt. Year 2013-14 4 5. However, the AO during the assessment proceedings found that evidences
for purchase of shares of M/s SBML were not furnished by the assessee. The
assessee simply stated that the shares were purchased beyond 7 years and
furthermore the assessee is not liable to maintain the books of accounts. Therefore,
the question of justifying the purchases based on the books of accounts is outside
the jurisdiction. As per the AO, indeed it is the duty of the assessee to produce
evidences to establish that the asset sold in question was purchased and owned by
her. 5.1 The AO in this regard further found that during the search proceeding, the
statements of various individuals of the group including the assessee were recorded
but none of them was able to furnish the evidence with respect to investment in the
shares of M/s SBML and likewise, none of them was aware how the shares of M/s
SBML were acquired. As such, all the individual of the group were shifting/
transferring the responsibility on one another. However, one of the key person of
the group namely Shri Jayesh Kotak admitted that he does not remember the name
of the broker through whom share were purchased and what was the mode of
payment for the purchase of the shares as the shares were purchased by his father.
Furthermore, if the statement of Shri Jayesh Kotak is assumed to be true then the
shares held by the father, constitutes more than 1% of total paid up shares of the
company M/s SBML, therefore as per listing rule name of his father should have
been mentioned in the records of MCA/ BSE but no such detail was found. Further,
the ledger submitted by the group for their investment in different scripts did not
contain the information of the investment in the shares of M/s SBML. Likewise, the
search proceeding under section 132 of the Act dated 09-02-2005 was also carried
out at the assessee group but no document or material with respect to investment
in shares M/s SBML made during F.Y. 2001-02 or 2002-03 was found. Accordingly,
the AO was of the view that no share of M/s SBML in true sense was acquired by
the assessee and its group. Consequently, the AO opined that until and unless
ownership and holding of the share is proved, the question of earning profit on
 IT(SS)A No.193/AHD/2019
 with C.O No. 47/Ahd/2021 with 4 others
 Asstt. Year 2013-14 5 occasion sale of such assets does not arise and consequently, the exemption under section 10(38) of the Act is not allowable. 5.2 The AO further found that there was survey proceedings carried out at the
premises of M/s SBML dated 25th February 2016 where it was found that M/s SBML
was not engaged in any actual business activity. As such, there was huge sum of
money credited in the books of the company i.e. M/s SBML from entry provider
namely M/s Jalaram Finserve Limited. There was not any record available of
shareholding register being maintained by the company i.e. M/s SBML. The financial
of the company (M/s SBML) was very week. Likewise, during the survey
proceedings, the statement of the director of the M/s SBML namely Shri Satish
Ramanlal Shah was also recorded who categorically accepted that the shares of the
company were utilized for providing bogus long term capital gain. 5.3 The AO also found that in the search proceedings carried out at the premises
of one Shri Shirish Chandrakant Shah a Mumbai based entry provider, it was found
that Shri Shrish Chandrakant Shah in association with other entry providers rigged
up/ managed/ controlled the price of the shares of M/s SBML. During the search at
Shri Shrish Chandrakant Shah, there were evidences with respect to cash paid by
one of the assessee group individual namely Smt. Kavitaben Jayeshbhai Kotak for
taking accommodation entry were found. 5.4 Similarly, the AO also found that the SEBI carried out investigation on the
management of M/s SBML for their alleged involvement in market manipulation.
Accordingly, the SEBI vide order dated 14th November 2014 restricted the promoter
of M/s SBML and the company to enter into stock market in any manner. 5.5 Likewise, the AO was also of the view that it very unlikely that the assessee
and its group acquired the share of M/s SBML during the March 2002 and kept the
 IT(SS)A No.193/AHD/2019
 with C.O No. 47/Ahd/2021 with 4 others
 Asstt. Year 2013-14 6 same till 2012. Suddenly, the shares were dematerialized and within a period of 3
to 7 months sold the same at BSE platform. 5.6 Thus, the AO in view of the above finding held that the long term capital gain
for Rs. 1,60,24,199/- earned by the assessee on the sale of share of M/s SBML are
not genuine. Furthermore, the AO also found that the assessee to generate such
long term capital gain must have incurred some expenses which were estimated by
the AO at Rs. 3,06,043.00 being 2% of Rs. 1,53,02,199.00. Hence the AO added
the same to total income of the assessee by treating the same as income from
unexplained sources. 6. Aggrieved assessee preferred an appeal before the learned CIT-A. 7. The assessee before the learned CIT-A submitted that the AO wrongly
assumed that the purchase of shares of M/s SBML were not established. The
assessee claimed that she has furnished copy of share certificate and annual return
of M/s SBML filed with Ministry of corporate affairs, where her name appears as
shareholder right from the year 2001-02 till the date of sale of share by her.
Likewise, the fact that the shares were owned by the assessee can also be
established from the confirmation that the shares were dematerialized and sold
through BSE which has not been disputed. Thus, the purchase of the shares and
ownership was proven beyond doubt. 7.1 Shri Jayesh Kotak in the statement dated 20-06-2016 explained that the
dealing for purchase of shares of M/s SBML were made by his father in the year
2002. But the AO wrongly assumed that the assessee group in statement recorded
failed to explain the purchase of shares. 7.2 The AO further misunderstood by the fact that the name of father of Shri
Jayesh kotak was not appearing in listing record. As such, the shares were
 IT(SS)A No.193/AHD/2019
 with C.O No. 47/Ahd/2021 with 4 others
 Asstt. Year 2013-14 7 purchased in the name of different individual of the group and none of them was
holding 1% of the total shares individually. Thus, the name was not appearing in
the listing document. However, the names of different individuals, holding the
shares in the company were very much appearing in annual return as shareholder.
The AO observation that no document with regard to purchase of shares was found
in the search proceeding under section 132 of the Act carried out during the year
2005 cannot be the basis for drawing any adverse inference. Indeed it was the
failure on the part of search team not to detect materials with respect to investment
in the shares of M/s SBML. 7.3 The AO's observation that M/s SBML was having huge transaction with
alleged entry provider namely M/s Jalaram Finserve has nothing to do with shares
held by the assessee and sold the same through the stock exchange. 7.4 There cannot be drawn any adverse inference based on the materials found
during the search at the alleged entry provider namely Shri Shrish Chandrakant
Shah for the reason that the shares of M/s SBML were purchased by the assessee
in the year 2002 and held for next 10 years and same were sold through stock
exchange whereas no such document was found which can establishes that
assessee was beneficiary in accommodation transaction or involved in wrong doing.
Further, the materials found at the premises of Shri Shirish Chandrakant Shah who
is third party cannot be considered as evidence as the same was not provided for
rebuttal. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of CBI vs. V. C. Shulkla reported
in AIR 1998 SC 1406 has held that any noting and jotting by a third person in a
diary or in loose sheets cannot be considered as an evidence to draw any adverse
inference. The assessee in this regard placed reliance on various judgments which
are incorporated in the ld. CIT (A) order. 7.5 With respect to the admission of the director of M/s SBML during the survey
proceeding that the shares were utilized for providing accommodation entries, the
 IT(SS)A No.193/AHD/2019
 with C.O No. 47/Ahd/2021 with 4 others
 Asstt. Year 2013-14 8 assessee submitted that the statement was recorded behind the back of the
assessee and opportunity of cross examination was not provided. Therefore the
same does not carry any evidentiary value. 7.6 The allegation of the AO that the financials of the M/s SBML is week and
fundamentally incommensurate with the price of the share is based again on the
wrong assumption of fact. As such M/s SBML have shown healthy amount of paid
up share capital, reserve & surplus and revenue from operation throughout the
period 2011-2017. Further, the price of the share in the market does not depend on
the financial performance of the company. Indeed, the price of share is a market
driven phenomena affected by the factors such government policy, industrial sector,
economic trends etc. 8. The learned CIT (A) after considering the facts in totality deleted the addition
made by the AO by observing as under: IT(SS)A No.193/AHD/2019
 with C.O No. 47/Ahd/2021 with 4 others
 Asstt. Year 2013-14 10 6.12 In other words in spite of search conducted in the case of the appellant and searches
and surveys conducted in various other per sons/concerns, there is not an iota of direct
evidence to show that the shares were not held by the appellant and not sold by the
appellant at the stated price as claimed in the return of income. Even if the balance sheet
and the activities of SBML were not such that as per the AO the scripts could have
commanded the price at which it was sold by the appellant, there is no evidence that the
shares were not traded at the stated price on that day and that the shares held by the
appellant were not sold in the manner claimed by the appellant. In spite of all the
circumstantial evidences gathered by the Department, specially the fact that BSE trade data
for the period February 2011 to December 2015 revealed that the persons who did not
purchase SBML shares on BSE platform had only sold those shares on BSE platform @ Rs.45
per share or more and that there were 311 beneficiaries identified who had taken pay out
of Rs.101.crore out of which 108 persons belonged to Ahmedabad taking LTCG of 69.2 crore
out of which 10 beneficiaries were members of JP Iscoii Group having received pay out of
Rs.15 crore. Neither during the search nor during post search investigation and assessment
proceedings, could the Department gather direct evidence of appellant having obtained
accommodation entry. Also no evidence was found/gathered that the appellant had earned
unaccounted income which might have been laundered in the garb of LTCG. Neither there
was any admission of undisclosed income nor any statement admitting any wrong doing in
relation to the LTCG declared and exemption claimed in the return of income. 6.13 Thus denying LTCG and exemption thereof by the AO appears to be based on
subjective, premeditated and preconceived inferences and the same cannot be sustained.
The claim of the appellant cannot be rejected based on indirect evidences that too when
searches and surveys have been conducted in the case of the appellant and other related
parties. 6.14 The appellant has stated that she has sold the shares in the range of Rs.170.6580 to
Rsl78.6919 per share and after selling them, the price of the shares has even further risen
upto Rs.229.85 per share. Thus the share price of the said company continued rising even
after the appellant sold her shares and rose up to Rs.198.80 per share on 06.02.2013 i.e.
almost a month, after the appellant sold her shares. The transaction was at a rate prevailing
in the stock market and there was no evidence discovered about earning of unaccounted
money by the appellant and introducing such unaccounted money for accommodation
entries by way of LTCG. It is true that several suspicious circumstances have been indicated
by the AO but then the finding as ultimately recorded by him about manipulation of share
price is based more on presumptions rather than on cogent proof brought on record. The
Department has been able to pin point that there was an accommodation of cash getting
converted into LTCG. The search team of the Income-tax Department was conversant with
the MCA Site, SEBI Site and BSE Site and from there they could have traced out on the date
of search on 25.02.2016 whether the company M/s Sawaca Business Machines Ltd uploaded
its annual accounts/financial reports for various years, which has not done. The annual
returns of M/s Sawaca Business Machines Limited available on official website of ROC are
on record of the A.O. wherein name of the appellant is mentioned as a shareholder holding
72,200 shares. Further, other members of the Kotak family as per list mentioned in the order
on Page No. 27 and 28 of the order, shareholding of all those members also continued from
2002 till date of sale and the holding of SBML share is also verifiable from the annual returns
of the company. 6.15 The AO has not disputed that Sawaca Business Machines Ltd was listed in stock
exchange. The AO has also not disputed the prevailing market price of the shares at the
time of subscription to shares of SBML as well as at the time of sale of shares. Since this
company was listed in the stock exchange there is no hurdle in asserting the prevailing
market price of the shares at the point of subscription to shares of SRMI as well as at the
 IT(SS)A No.193/AHD/2019
 with C.O No. 47/Ahd/2021 with 4 others
 Asstt. Year 2013-14 11 time of sale of shares uf SDML. The AO has nowhere alleged that (.he subject mentioned
transaction was part of penny stock scam. Thus merely because there is huge capital gain
earned by the assessee on the transaction, such huge gain cannot be the basis for holding
the same as bogus transaction. A transaction is established from the evidence and record
which cannot be manipulated as all the entries are part of the bank account of the appellant
and the dermat account of the appellant which are independent materials and which cannot
be manipulated. Therefore the holding of the shares by the appellant as a share holder
investor since 2002 cannot be doubted. .16 Further in support of her claim the appellant has relied on following decision wherein for
similar transactions the authorities have considered the claim of LTCG u/s 10(38) as genuine. a. ITAT Ahmedabad 'D' Bench in the case of ACIT Circle 7 Vs. Vineet
Sureshchqndr a. Agrawal reported in I.T.A No. l442/Ahd/2013- &--CO-No. 209.Ahd.2013

b, ITAT Kolkata. 'D' Bench in (he case of Dolarriai Hemani Vs. ITO Ward 34(3)
reported at LT.A No. 19.Kol.2014

c. ITAT Kolkata 'A' Bench in the case of Surya Parkash Toshniwal vs. ITO Ward 41(3)3 reported at LT.A No. 1213.Kol.2016

d. ITAT Ahmedabad in the case of Sunita Jain. V.s. ITO reported at LT.A No. 501
/502/Ahd/2016 (A.Y.2008-09)

e. High Court of Punjab and Harya.no in the case of POT (Central) Vs. Pram Pal Gandhi
repotted al I.T.A No. 95-2017 (A. Y.2008-09)

f. High Court of Punjab and Ha.rya.na in the case of PCJT (Central) Vs. Hitesh Gandhi reported at LT.A No. 18 of 2017(A.Y.2008-09)

g, ITAT Delhi in the case of Mohit Horn (HUF) Vs. ITO reported at I.T.A No.410/Del/20l8
(A.Y.2014-15)

h. ITAT Delhi in the case of Nidhi Goel Vs. ITO reported at I.T.A
No.6882/Del/2017 (A.Y.2014-15)

 i. TTAT Jaipur in the case of Shri Meghraj Singh Shekhawat Vs. The DC1T reported
at I.TA No. 443 &444/JP/2017 (A.Y.2013-14 and 2014-15)

j. High Court of Bombay in the case of C1T- 13 Vs. Shyam R. Pawar reported at
I.T.A No. 1568 to 1571 of 2012

k. ITAT Ahmedabad in the case of ACIT, Circle 7Vr.. Bhavik Bharatbhm Padia
reported at 1. T. Appeal Nos. 14440 & 1441 {AHD)of2013

 I TTAT Mumbai in the case of ITO- 24(3)(l)Vs. M/s Indravadan Jain HUP reported
at I. T. Appeal Nos. 4861&5168/ Mum of 2014

m. ITAT Mumbai in the case of Ms. Fatrah Marker Vs. Income Tax Officer 19(3)(1)
lReported at I. T. Appeal Nos. 3801/ Mum of 2011

n. ITAT Mumbai in the case of Mr. Arvind Asmal Mehta Vs. Income Tax Officer 16(2)(2)
reported at I. -T. Appeal Nos. 2799/ Mum of 2015
 IT(SS)A No.193/AHD/2019
 with C.O No. 47/Ahd/2021 with 4 others
 Asstt. Year 2013-14 12 6.17 From the appellant's submission and the evidences furnished in the paper books, it is
established that 72,200 shares of SBML were held by the appellant since 2002 and her name
was appearing in the list of share holders as on 30/09/2002 and on 30/09/2011 as available
on ROC data, and that those shares were dematerialized in the demat account 02/04/2012
through M/s. Trade Bull Securities Pvt. Ltd. and that those shares were sold on online
platform of BSE and payment of STT (Securities Transaction Tax) were duly made. The sales
were as per the rates that day. There is reasonable force in the contention of the appellant
that the fact that those shares held by the appellant were not brought in the books of
accounts in March 2002 cannot negate the fact of holding the shares otherwise those shares
could not have been dematerialized in April 2012. This gets further strength that no
incriminating materiaL such as alleged bogus LTCG by the appellant was found during the
search in the JP Iscon Group of cases. The appellant has relied upon host of Court judgment
(already reproduced before as part of appellant's submissions) to emphasize that when the
transactions were off market transactions there is no relevance in seeking details of share
transactions from stock exchange, that just because the share broker did not appear before
the AO in response to summons u/s 131(1) , it cannot be automatically concluded that
transactions of the assessee with the broker were bogus and sham, even if the share brokers
and the management of the company whose share was traded have been alleged for some
illegal unethical actions/manipulation the same cannot be construed to deny the transaction
routed through the stock exchange to which the STT has been paid.
6.18 From the perusal of the catena of case laws relied upon by the appellant, it is seen that
various governing principles emerge and if those conditions are satisfied by an assessee, no
adverse inference can be drawn against the appellant merely on the basis of holding the
shares to be penny stock and the gain there from as accommodation entries. Some those
governing principles are as below; > Consideration was paid when the shares were purchased, the shares were thereafter
sent to the company for the transfer of name and the company transferred the shares in the
name of the assesses. There is nothing on record which could suggest that the shares were
never transferred in the name of the assessee or never with the assessee. > The books of account maintained by the assessee for relevant years clearly reflected the
purchase of those shares and the shares are reflected in the balance sheets filed by the
assessee along with the returns of income for the assessment years. These are prima facie
evidence that the purchases of shares have been contemporaneously entered into the books
of accounts of the assessee. > The assessee has been declaring agricultural income in the returns of income and such
agricultural income has been considered in the respective assessments. Therefore, the
contention of the AO that the assessee had no sufficient resourcefulness to make
investments in the shares is unfounded. > Purchase arid sale of shares outside the floor of Stock Exchange is not an unlawful
activity. It is always possible for the parties to enter into transactions even without the help
of brokers. Therefore, it is not possible to hold that the transactions reported by the assessee
were quite sham on the proposition that off-market transactions are not permissible. > When the transactions were off-market transactions, there is no relevance in seeking/
details of share transactions from Stock Exchanges. Such attempts would he futile. Stock
Exchanges cannot give details of transactions entered into between the parties outside their
floor. Therefore, the reliance placed by the AO on the communications received from the
Stock Exchanges that the particulars of share transactions entered into by the assessee were
not available in their records, is out of place. IT(SS)A No.193/AHD/2019
 with C.O No. 47/Ahd/2021 with 4 others
 Asstt. Year 2013-14 13 > The explanations of the assessee cannot be rejected by the AO mere on the ground of
presumption than on factual ground that comparatively a small amount of investment made
by the assessee during the earlier year have grow into a very sizable amount ultimately
yielding a fabulous return as an assessment has to be completed on the basis of records and
materials available before the AO. > It is a bald statement that the subject mentioned transaction is part of penny stock,
scam that cropped up in a place in connivance with few brokers or some stock exchanges. > There is no evidence on record to show that any action or enquiry was carried out either
by the SEBI or the Stock Exchange in respect of the alleged manipulation or propping
up of the price rate movement of the 'said shares' of a company listed on the Stock Exchange
and that the sale transaction of the 'said shares' by the assessee is at the rate quoted on
the date of sale has been confirmed both by the Stock Exchange and the concerned stock
broker. ...... The assessee has discharged the onus required u/s 68 of the Act as she has
established the identity of the payer, source of funds received on sale of the same shares
and the genuineness of the transaction. 6.19 In the present case under consideration the appellant had duly submitted the
documentary evidences for purchase and sale transactions some of which are: 6.20 Reliance is placed un the decision of Honourable ITAT Ahmedabad in case of Pratik
Suryakant Shah 60 Others (ITA No. 810 to 815/Ahd/2015 dated 21.10.2016 wherein the
exemption claimed u/s. 10 (38} for LTCG on sale of shares has been allowed and the same
case has been upheld by the Hon'ble Gujarat High Court as the appeal filed by the
Department has been dismissed by the Court (Tax Appeal no. 674, -983 & 984 of 2017 dated
12.09.2017 and 13.12.2017). Further reliance can be placed on the decision of Hon'ble ITAT
Delhi SMC Bench in Arun Kumar V ACIT {ITA No. 457/Del/2018) dated 05.11,2018
wherein the exemption claimed u/s. 10(38) for LTCG on sale of shares has been allowed. 6.21 If the AO doubted the impugned transaction of sale of shares of SBML, then it was
open for the AO to conduct independent inquiry and form an independent belief which is
absent in the present case. The AO has relied upon information received from search
operation at premises of Shri Shirish Chandrakant Shah regarding the company, M/s Sawaca
Business Machines Ltd and the statement of Director of the company, M/s Sawaca Business
Machines Ltd. The oral statement given u/s. 131 of the Act by any person does not have any
evidential value as held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of CIT vs. S. Khader
 IT(SS)A No.193/AHD/2019
 with C.O No. 47/Ahd/2021 with 4 others
 Asstt. Year 2013-14 14 Khan Son 25 taxmann.com 413 -42012], Paul Mathews & Sons vs. CIT 263 ITR
 101(Ker.) and Hon'ble ITAT, Ahmedabad, "C" Bench in the case of Ashok Manilal
 Thakkar vs. ACIT 97 ITD 361. The decision of the Hon'ble ITAT, Ahmedabad, "C" Bench
 in the case of Ashok Manilal Thakkar vs. ACIT , cited supra has been upheld by the
 Hon'ble Gujarat High Court as well as the Hon'ble Supreme Court as the SLP filed by the
 Department has been dismissed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court. 6.22 The appellant had requested for the opportunity of cross examination of the aforesaid
 Directors of company. Without granting the opportunity of cross examination of the persons,
 whose statements have been recorded behind the back of the appellant will not be justified
 by the Department under the principle of natural justice and equity in view of the decision
 of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Andaman Timber Industries vs.
 Commissioner of Central Excise , followed by the Hon'ble Gujarat High Court in the
 case of CIT vs. Ramanbhai B. Patel . The appellant has also relied upon the decision of
 the Hon'ble High Court of Judicature for Rajasthan Bench at Jaipur in the case of CIT, Central vs. Smt. Sunita Dhadda and Others (Income tax Appeal No. 197/2012)
 dated 01.07.2017 and the SLP filed against the said judgment has been dismissed by the
 Hon'ble Supreme Court in Special Leave Petition (CIVIL) Diary No (s). 9432 / 2018.
 6.23 Though the A.Y.2013-14 is an elapsed/unabated assessment year and as per various
 case laws including those of Jurisdiction al ITAT of Ahmedabad and jurisdictional High Court
 of Gujarat in Saumya Construction and other cases, no addition can be made in the re-
 assessment u/s 153A if there is no relevant incriminating material found during the search.
 However, the appellant has not challenged the legality of proceedings and the assessment
 u/s 153A on this ground. From the above it clearly transpires that in the facts and
 circumstances of the appellant, the AO is not correct in arriving at the findings as at Para 6-
 9 on page 33 and 36 of the assessment order and in making the additions by denying exempt
 LTCG on sale of shares and assuming commission payment in relation to the accommodation
 entries of those LTCG and accordingly the additions of Rs.1,60,24,199/- and Rs.3,06,043/-
 cannot be sustained. The AO is directed to delete the additions. The related grounds are
 allowed. 9. Aggrieved by the order of the learned CIT-A the assessee is in appeal before
us. 10. The learned DR before us vehemently supported the stand of the AO by
reiterating the findings contained in the assessment order which we have already
adverted to in the preceding paragraph. Therefore we are not repeating the same
for the sake of brevity. 11. On the other hand learned AR before us filed a paper book running from
pages 1 to 1624 and has elaborately brought out before the bench that the assessee
has made in the investment in the shares more than a decade ago which can be
verified from the annual report of the company i.e. M/s SBML which are available in
 IT(SS)A No.193/AHD/2019
 with C.O No. 47/Ahd/2021 with 4 others
 Asstt. Year 2013-14 15 the paper book. The learned AR before us vehemently reiterated the findings
contained in the order ld. CIT-A. The learned AR before us vehemently supported
the stand of the ld. CIT-A. 12. We have heard the rival contentions of both the parties and perused the
materials available on record. In the present case the long term capital gain declared
by the assessee on sale shares M/s SBML for ₹ 1,53,02,199/- was treated as bogus
and manipulated, leading to the addition by the AO under section 68 of the Act. The
view of the AO was based on certain factors which have been elaborated in the
preceding paragraph. Subsequently, the learned CIT (A) deleted the addition made
by the AO for the reasons elaborated in the preceding paragraph. The facts of the
case are not in dispute and therefore we are not inclined to repeat the same for the
sake of brevity and convenience. 12.1 The first controversy arises for our adjudication whether the assessee has
ownership of the shares of the company namely M/s SBML. In this connection, we
note one undisputed fact that the name of the assessee was very much appearing
in the shareholder list of the company namely M/s SBML. This fact can be verified
from the annual report of the assessee right from the assessment year 2002-03 till
the shares are disposed of by the assessee. In other words the name of the assessee
as shareholder was very much appearing in the annual report of the company.
These annual reports of the company of different assessment years are placed on
pages 191 to 969 of the paper book. This fact carries a lot of weight and therefore
the same cannot be ignored merely on the basis that the assessee did not record
such investment in the books of accounts. Admittedly, in the absence of the relevant
entry in the books of accounts of the assessee, certainly, it creates suspicion but
this suspicion cannot supersede the annual report of the company namely M/s SBML
which is a piece of evidence filed with the government authorities. Furthermore, the
revenue has not carried out necessary examination from the company namely M/s
 IT(SS)A No.193/AHD/2019
 with C.O No. 47/Ahd/2021 with 4 others
 Asstt. Year 2013-14 16 SBML with respect to the shareholding of the assessee. Thus we are of the view
that there cannot be any doubt on the ownership of the shares of the assessee. 12.2 It is equally important to note that the shares were dematerialized in the year
of April 2002 as evident from the DEMAT account of the assessee placed on pages
77 of the paper book. Had the assessee not been the owner of the shares, then it
was not possible for the assessee to dematerialize the shares in her name. Likewise,
the assessee has also submitted the share certificate dated 25th of March 2002
placed on page 75 of the paper book. Thus all these cumulative information cannot
give rise to draw any inference against the assessee until and unless it is not based
on any tangible materials. 12.3 Coming to next allegation of the revenue that the capital gain on the sale of
share of M/s SBML was not genuine and representing bogus accommodation entry.
The AO alleged that there was survey proceeding under section 133A of the Act
carried out at the premises of the company M/s SBML and it was found that its
activity was not genuine as the company was showing bogus turnover and director
of the company M/s SBML admitted to have manipulated the price of the share and
provided accommodation entry in form of LTCG. In this regard we note that the
bogus turnover shown by the company or the company carried out transaction with
entry provider have nothing to do with share held and sold by the assessee on BSE.
As the assessee was holding less than 1 % share of the company and having no
control over the business of the company. Coming to the admission by the director,
on careful perusal of the statement of the director reproduced by the AO in his
order, we find that the director stated that promoter of the company wanted to sale
the company therefore in order to get suitable price, they manipulated the price of
the share in the process of providing accommodation entry in the form of LTCG.
Nowhere the director in his statement stated that he has provided accommodation
entry to the assessee on hand. No evidence either brought by the AO to establish
that the assessee was involved in price manipulation or was the beneficiary of
 IT(SS)A No.193/AHD/2019
 with C.O No. 47/Ahd/2021 with 4 others
 Asstt. Year 2013-14 17 accommodation entry. The AO referred the investigation carried out by the SEBI for
alleged involvement of promoter of the company M/s SBML in market manipulation
and SEBI barred the promoters form entry in the market. Again, it was directors
and promoters of the company M/s SBML who were alleged to be involved in wrong
doing and nowhere it is alleged by the SEBI that the assessee was involved in any
rigging up the price of share or the capital gain earned by the assessee was not
genuine. Further, the statement may appear to be very relevant to dig out the truth
but the same cannot be used to draw any inference against the assessee after giving
the opportunity of a hearing to the other party. In other words the statement taken
during the survey proceedings cannot be taken as the basis of treating the long-
term capital gain of the assessee as unexplained credit under threat 68 of the Act.
In simple words it is mandatory to provide the opportunity of cross-examination if
the revenue wishes to believe the statement of the director of the company until
and unless some clinching evidences are found to draw an inference against the
assessee. In holding so we draw support and guidance from the judgment of Hon'ble
Supreme court in case of Andaman Timber Industries vs. CIT reported in 62
taxmann.com 3 the relevant observation is extracted here as under: There was no evidence on record establishing any linkage of assessee with the
company floated by the alleged entry provider Shri Shirish chandrakant Shah. There
was no information available on record whether the name of the assessee was
appearing in the document or paper found in search carried out at Shri Shrish
Chandrakant Shah. It was also not brought any material that those broker or entry
provider have taken the name of the assessee or provided their services either to
the assessee or assessee broker. 12.7 The alleged scam might have taken place in Kolkata on generating LTCG to
avoid the payment of tax. But it has to be established in each case, by the party
alleging so, that this assessee in question was part of this arrangement. The chain
of events and the live link of the assessee's action that he was involved in such
rigging up the price should be established based on cogent materials. The allegation
as discussed above implies that there was cash exchanged for taking exempted
income by of long term capital gain by way of cheque through banking channels.
This allegation that cash had exchanged hands, has to be proved with evidence, by
the Revenue. Likewise there cannot be any adverse inference against the assessee
based on the statement materials discovered from the premises of the party namely
 IT(SS)A No.193/AHD/2019
 with C.O No. 47/Ahd/2021 with 4 others
 Asstt. Year 2013-14 19 Shri Shirish Chandrakant Shah until and unless the same are provided to the
assessee for rebuttal. The documents on which the AO has placed reliance was not
provided to the assessee and therefore no adverse inference against the assessee
can be drawn. 12.8 It is also important to note that the assessee was holding 72,200 shares M/s
SBML and same was hold for more than 10 year in physical form. Thus the conduct
of the assessee suggests that she was not involved in rigging up the price or any
wrongdoing. The case laws relied by the authorities below are distinguishable from
the present facts of the case in so far that there was SEBI enquiry conducted and
found guilty of wrong practices but it is not so in the case on hand. 12.9 In our view, the income generated by the assessee cannot be held bogus
only one basis the modus operandi, generalisation, and surmise and conjecture. In
order to hold income earned by the assessee is bogus, specific evidence has to be
brought on record by the revenue to prove that the assessee was involved in the
collusion with the entry operator/ stock brokers for such an arrangements. In the
absence of such finding, it is not justifiable to link the fact or finding unearthed in
the case of some third party or parties with the transactions carried out by the
assessee. Further the case laws relied by the AO are with regard to test of human
probabilities which may be of greater impact but the same cannot used blindly to
dispose of the evidence forwarded by the assessee especially without bringing any
evidences from independent enquiry to corroborate the allegation. In holding so we
draw support and guidance from the judgment of Hon'ble Delhi High court in case
of Pr. CIT vs. Smt. Krishna Devi reported in 126 taxmann.com 80 where it was held
as under: However, the reliance placed on the report, without further corroboration on the basis of
 cogent material, does not justify his conclusion that the transaction is bogus, sham and
 nothing other than a racket of accommodation entries. We do notice that the AO made an
 attempt to delve into the question of infusion of Respondent's unaccounted money, but he
 did not dig deeper. Notices issued under sections 133(6) / 131 of the Act were issued to M/s
 Gold Line International Finvest Limited, but nothing emerged from this effort. The payment
 for the shares in question was made by Sh. Salasar Trading Company. Notice was issued to
 this entity as well, but when the notices were returned unserved, the AO did not take the
 matter any further. He thereafter simply proceeded on the basis of the financials of the
 company to come to the conclusion that the transactions were accommodation entries, and
 thus, fictitious. The conclusion drawn by the AO, that there was an agreement to convert
 unaccounted money by taking fictitious LTCG in a pre-planned manner, is therefore entirely
 unsupported by any material on record. This finding is thus purely an assumption based on
 conjecture made by the AO. This flawed approach forms the reason for the learned ITAT to
 interfere with the findings of the lower tax authorities. The learned ITAT after considering
 the entire conspectus of case and the evidence brought on record, held that the Respondent
 had successfully discharged the initial onus cast upon it under the provisions of Section 68 of the Act. It is recorded that "There is no dispute that the shares of the two companies
 were purchased online, the payments have been made through banking channel, and the
 shares were dematerialized and the sales have been routed from de-mat account and the
 consideration has been received through banking channels." The above noted factors,
 including the deficient enquiry conducted by the AO and the lack of any independent source
 or evidence to show that there was an agreement between the Respondent and any other
 party, prevailed upon the ITAT to take a different view. Before us, Mr. Hossain has not been
 able to point out any evidence whatsoever to allege that money changed hands between
 the Respondent and the broker or any other person, or further that some person provided
 the entry to convert unaccounted money for getting benefit of LTCG, as alleged. In the
 absence of any such material that could support the case put forth by the Appellant, the
 additions cannot be sustained. 12. Mr. Hossain's submissions relating to the startling spike in the share price and other
 factors may be enough to show circumstances that might create suspicion; however the
 Court has to decide an issue on the basis of evidence and proof, and not on suspicion alone.
 The theory of human behavior and preponderance of probabilities cannot be cited as a basis
 to turn a blind eye to the evidence produced by the Respondent. 12.10 Respectfully following the judgment of Hon'ble Delhi High Court (Supra), we
hold that in absence of any specific finding against the assessee, the assessee
cannot be held to be guilty or linked to the wrong acts of the promoters as far as
long term capital earned on sale of share of M/s SBML is concern. In view of the
 IT(SS)A No.193/AHD/2019
 with C.O No. 47/Ahd/2021 with 4 others
 Asstt. Year 2013-14 21 above discussion we hold that the capital gain earned by the assessee cannot held
bogus merely on the basis of some report finding unearth in case of third
party/parties unless cogent materials are brought against particular assessee. Once
the addition made by the AO on account of bogus long term capital gain is deleted,
the addition of corresponding expenses of Rs. 3,06,043.00 is not sustainable.
Therefore, we do not find any reason to interfere in the finding of the learned
CIT(A). Hence the grounds of revenue appeal is hereby dismissed. 12.11 In the result, the appeal of the Revenue is hereby dismissed. Coming to CO. No. 47/Ahd/2021, filed by the assessee i.e. Smt.
Chandraben Madanlal Gupta. 13. At the outset, we note that the assessee in the CO filed by her has supported
the order of the Ld. CIT-A. Accordingly, we hold that no separate adjudication is
required for the CO filed by the assessee. Hence, we dismiss the same as
Infructuous. 13.1 In the result CO raised by the assessee is dismissed. Coming to IT(SS)A No. 43/Ahd/2020, for A.Y. 2013-14 filed by the
Revenue in case of Smt. Saraswatiben Talkshibhai Kotak . 14. The Revenue has raised the following grounds of appeal: 93/2018-ITJ(Pt.). 15. The only effective issue raised by the Revenue is that the learned CIT-A erred
in deleting the addition made by the AO under section 68 of the Act for Rs.
1,19,82,770/- on account of bogus long term capital gain. IT(SS)A No.193/AHD/2019
 with C.O No. 47/Ahd/2021 with 4 others
 Asstt. Year 2013-14 23 16. At the outset, we note that the issues raised by the revenue in its grounds of
appeal are identical to the issues raised by the Revenue in case of Chandraben
Madanlal Gupta bearing IT(SS)A No. 193/AHD/2019 for the assessment year
2013-14. Therefore, the findings given in IT(SS)A No. 193/AHD/2019 shall also be
applicable for the issues raised by the Revenue in this appeal. The appeal of the
Revenue for the 193/AHD/2019 has been decided by us vide paragraph No. 12 to
12.11 of this order against the Revenue. The learned AR and the DR also agreed
that whatever will be the findings for the 193/AHD/2019 shall also be applied for
the appeal on hand i.e. IT(SS)A No. 43/Ahd/2020 for A.Y. 2013-14. Hence, the
grounds of appeal filed by the Revenue is hereby dismissed. 16.1 In the result appeal of Revenue is dismissed. Coming to CO No. 70/Ahd/2020, raised by the assessee
Saraswatiben Talkshibhai Kotak . 17. At the outset we note that the assessee in the CO filed by her has supported
the order of the Ld. CIT-A. Accordingly, we hold that no separate adjudication is
required for the CO filed by the assessee. Hence, we dismiss the same as
Infructuous. 17.1 In the result, the CO filed by the assessee is dismissed. Coming to IT(SS)A No. 43/Ahd/2020, for A.Y. 2013-14 filed by the
Revenue in case of Kavita Jayeshkumar Kotak. 18. The Revenue has raised the following grounds of appeal: Further, it is trite law that AO is duty bound to assess the correct income of the assessee. 5. On the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the Id. CIT(A) has erred
in ignoring the statement of Shri Satish R Shah, director of M/s Sawaca Business Machines
Ltd. taken under oath as per provisions of section 132(4) of the Act wherein he had clearly
accepted that the activities of the company are not genuine and (he scrip of the company is
rigged at BSE platform by market manipulators with a purpose to provide accommodation
of bogus LTCG and as such the finding of the Ld. CIT(A) that there was no incriminating
material found during the course of search is not correct, because statement u/s 132(4) of
the Act is regarded as evidence. 6. On the facts and circumstances of the case and in law, the Ld. CIT(A) erred in deleting
the addition of Rs.1,57,64,582/- made by the A.O. u/s 68 of the Act, disallowing the claim
of LTCG u/s 10 {38) of the Act treating the transaction in the shares of M/s Sawaca Business
Machines Limited as bogus and sham transaction as the activities of the company are not
genuine and the scrip of the company is rigged at BSE platform by market manipulators with
a purpose to provide accommodation of bogus LTCG. 7. On the facts and circumstances of the case and in law, the Ld. CIT(A) erred in deleting
the addition of Rs.3,15,290/- made on account of unexplained expenditure u/s 69C of the
Act. 8. On the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the Ld. CIT(A) ought to
have upheld the order of the A.O. 9. It is therefore, prayed that the order of the Ld.CIT(A) be set aside and that of the A.O
be restored to the above extent. IT(SS)A No.193/AHD/2019
 with C.O No. 47/Ahd/2021 with 4 others
 Asstt. Year 2013-14 25 10. This case is covered under exception as per CBDT's Circular No.23 of 2019 dated
 06.09.2019 read with Office Memorandum dated 16.09.2019 vide F.No.279/Misc./M-
 93/2018-ITJ(Pt.) and monetary limits for filling appeal in Hon'ble ITAT is no applicable. 19. The only effective issue raised by the Revenue is that the learned CIT-A erred
in deleting the addition made by the AO under section 68 of the Act for Rs.
1,57,64,582/- on account of bogus long term capital gain. 20. At the outset, we note that the issues raised by the revenue in its grounds of
appeal are identical to the issues raised by the Revenue in case of Chandraben
Madanlal Gupta bearing IT(SS)A No. 193/AHD/2019 for the assessment year 2013- 14. Therefore, the findings given in IT(SS)A No. 193/AHD/2019 shall also be
applicable for the issues raised by the Revenue in this appeal. The appeal of the
Revenue for the 193/AHD/2019 has been decided by us vide paragraph No. 12 to
12.11 of this order against the Revenue. The learned AR and the DR also agreed
that whatever will be the findings for the 193/AHD/2019 shall also be applied for
the appeal on hand i.e. IT(SS)A No. 32/Ahd/2021 for A.Y. 2013-14. Hence, the
ground of appeal filed by the Revenue is hereby dismissed. 20.1 In the result appeal of Revenue is dismissed. Coming to CO No. 21/Ahd/2021, raised by the assessee Kavita
Jayeshkumar Kotak. 21. At the outset we note that the assessee in the CO filed by her has supported
the order of the Ld. CIT-A. Accordingly, we hold that no separate adjudication is
required for the CO filed by the assessee. Hence, we dismiss the same as
Infructuous. IT(SS)A No.193/AHD/2019
 with C.O No. 47/Ahd/2021 with 4 others
 Asstt. Year 2013-14 26 21.1 In the result, the CO filed by the assessee is dismissed. 22. In the combined results, all the appeals filed by the Revenue are dismissed
and the CO filed by the different assessee are also dismissed as infructuous. Order pronounced in the Court on 24/06/2022 at Ahmedabad.